

DlETlTir A-R’S —The Spirit of Reputation
R. Q. WATKINS «SC CO.,
Machinery Merchants) 107 !K.ent Street,
Mining- and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE' ADVANCE
MONEY
ON EASY>
a
Wv,
ON ALL CLASSES OF SECURITY
WITHOUT POSSESSION.
NSW MONT de PIETE
D«I C9Y LIMITED.
74- Castlereagh St.34.Sydney.
CAPITAL &200.000 ‘Phone City 9325
x \ firancAes <?/- 29 King St.. Newcastle .NS W - 71517 Swakstoh St. Meib.Vic
40 Adelaide St.Bnsbane.o. lB6 CastlereagK St,fs9 Ceorge St. West, Sydney.
JTzxs£ac& . G&nejrsrJ 77-3n<s(yes*.
fcT\
if
CHROMOL
19
(Trade Marie)
The Super Driving Belt.
The largest mining and smelt-
ing plants use “Chroniol,” because
of its proven superiority over all
other Belting.
Sole Makers:
J.C.LudowiciSSon Ltd.
Pioneer Leather Belting Works,
117 York Street, Sydney
Pioneers and Leaders since 1858.
THE BEST !
n
n
&
m
&
i
via
U
tnea
*app
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
J
HANSEN’S
*>, INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
M
is a registered brand of
and equal quality and value
are not procurable
under any other name.
A new and revised edition of the
••Referee” is now available,
and will be sent post free on
application to
LYSAGHTS LIMITED
8 Spring Street, SYDNEY ,
e 4
C(S^
eis
the recognised stan<
of quality throughout
the Commonwealth.
BL WHI
i|9o||ng)
•!<>S A3NOAS I “an *O3 T® NIMOI3H 3 WHO
Price of Gypsboard, 2(6 per sq. yd.
There Is no greater value in material for interior walls and ceilings than “Gypsboard.” It costs the same as the
ordinary kinds of wallboard, yet gives you an overwhelming advantage in convenience and durability. The Mono-
0
0
o
o
end Ceilin^a
MoaslitbicPlaster Sheets!
lithic Solidity of “Gypsboard” means speedy, satisfactory work for the builder,
because every sheet can be sawn and nailed without leaving jagged edges or
chips. Altogether for country and city homes, offices, halls, clubs, schools,
churches, etc., “Gypsboard” gives durable, attractive interiors that are free
from trouble both for the builder and those who have to use them. Write
for Illustrated Booklet and Free Sample to
NOYES BROS. (Sydney) LTD., 115 Clarence Street, Sydney
w
&:•
' ~.s
I
ms
SU'.
A TRUE ANTISEPTI
AUSTRALIA’S BEST
The Bulletin
Vol. 40.—N0. 2041. )
[Thursday, March 27, 1919.
PRICE 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, f 4 or Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


BEFORE THE MIRROR
By “JEANNETTE.”
These are, undoubtedly, days of exceptional nervous strain for one and
all of us. Anxiety, with its beauty-destroying influence, is casting its shadow
over fihe lives of many of us women, and while perhaps a few—-the more
stoical among us —can avoid worrying over past and prospective events, we
may all, with a little care and forethought, succeed in preventing the results
of worry from being noticeable in our appearance. To these fortunate
few this little chat will, however, be as interesting and instructive as to
those who stand in real need of help in toilet matters, and may be the
means of bringing to their notice some hitherto unknown, method of retain-
ing or regaining that beauty of face and figure which is the birthright of
every woman. Some of the ingredients mentioned below are, at present, not
generally known to the public, but any good chemist will usually be found to
have a small quantity in stock.
Wrinkles., and How to Remove them. —Worry,
late hours or the passing of old Father Time
may cause those ugly little lines which so
detract from the freshness and charm of a
woman’s face; but the cure is always the
same. Feed the tissues beneath the skin, and
massage them with a reliable skin icod, which,
while nourishing the fatty tissues, will not
coarsen the skin nor grow hairs upon the
face, as so many inferior creams do. To
remove the wrinkles, bathe the face with hot
water, wipe it dry, then, while it is still
warm, smear a little mercolized wax over the
whole face, carrying it well down on the neck,
and, with the tips of the fingers, rub fit gently
into the pores, working in an upward and
outward direction. Wipe off any superfluous
wax, leaving a little on the skin all- night.
In the morning wash off with warm water
and Pilenta soap. The use of the wax not
only feeds the skin, but removes the dead
outer cuticle, giving the fresh young skin
beneath an opportunity to breathe and show
itself.
Beautiful Hair—How to Shampoo.. —Whether
the hair is luxuriant and glossy, or thin and
lanky, depends very largely upon the care
bestowed upon it. To keep the hair in good
condition it should be shampooed once in
every two or three weeks. Before shampooing,
massage a little pure olive oil or almond oil
into the scalp, then mix one teaspoonful of
stallax granules in a cup of hot water, fill a
basin with warm water, into which the ends
of the hair can fall, and shampoo the stallax
mixture into the scalp in the usual way.
Rinse and dry by fanning with a palm fan, or
in the open air, if the weather permits. Should
the hair be naturally very greasy, the oil
massage should be omitted. ' Stallax can be
bought at any chemist's in quarter-pound
sealed packages; it keeps indefinitely, and one
package contains sufficient t'or 25 or 30
shampoos.
A Greasy Skin and Blackheads.—Blackheads
are absolutely fatal to beauty, for they give a
coarse, dirty look to the face which no cos-
metics can ever hide. The way to remove
blackheads quickly and effectively has only
recently been discovered. For many years those
who suffered in this way were restricted in
their diet, denied sweets and had to suffer
other privations. Modern science has, how-
ever, provided a simple, effective and quick
remedy. Dissolve one stymol tablet in a
glass of hot water, and when the effervescence
lias subsided, dip a.small, soft sponge into.the
liquid and bathe the face. Leave for a few
minutes, then dry with a towel, and the black-
heads will come off. For a greasy skin bathe
the face three times a week with stymol and
spray with cold water every morning, using a
vulcanite throat spray.
To Improve the Eyebrows and Eyelashes.—
Long, curling eyelashes make the most in-
different eyes look attractive, and while no
one can alter the color, shape or size of the
eyes, ail may possess luxuriant eyelashes and
well-shaped eyebrows. To increase the growth
of the. eyelashes rub a little mennaline into
the roots very gently every night. Mennaline
is perfectly harmless and delicate pomade-
like substance which may be obtained at any
chemist’s. For the eyebrows smear a little of
the mennaline on a small soft brush, and
brush into the eyebrows in a straight or
arched direction, according to how you wish
them to grow. A month’s treatment should
see a marked improvement.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
CAIRO. —No, I am not surprised at hearing
from a reader so far away, as I get letters
from every part of the world. I expect it is
the heat that has caused you to put on weight
so rapidly, and can quite understand how
much it adds to your age. Get a small quan-
tity of elynol berries and eat one after such
meal. They will permanently reduce your
weight, are quite harmless, and you need
make no alteratibn in your diet.
QUEEN BESS. —Thirty is far too young to
have grey hairs, and you must not allow the
trouble to increase. Get two ounces of tamma-
lite. mix it with three ounces of bay rum, and
apply to the hair with a small, soft sponge.
This will restore the grey and fading hair to
its original color.
EMMEEINE.—-For your muddy-looking skin
get a tin of mercolised wax and rub a little
well into the face and neck every night. Leave
on till morning, then wash off, using Pilenta
soap and warm water. This wall remove the
dead outer skin and leaVe the complexion soft,
fresh and, smooth.
JESSIE.— To remove the hairs from the lip
and chin get an ounce of powatered pheminol.
and use as directed. Then apply tekko paste
several times daily for some weeks. This com-
bined treatment will permanently remove all
Trace of hair from your face.
FRECKLED LASS. —To prevent the freckles!
from appearing use a cleminite lotion. Get an
ounce of cleminite and mix it with four ounces
of warm water, allow to cool, then dab over
the face. This will not. only protect- the skin
front sunburn and freckles, but will give it a
dainty fresh look far superior to the bloom
imparted by the finest pownler. [3. ■
CHARM OF MANNER
may be enhanced by beauty of the (ace. A'
touch of SWAN DOWN gives just that
delicacy and purity to the complexion which,*
being scarcely perceptible, is admired the more.
TETLOW’S
m
FACE POWDER
Imparts a delicate 6foom to «
tie eompfexion. So 'Pare that
it-willnot Harm tie most
delicate Spin
PRICE m <2 box
In Five Tints;
White, Cream, Pink.
Flesh and Brunette.
QTStores. Chemists
First C/ass Drapery House?
& Perfumers everywhere,
rov r r;
Wholesale UislribuHng Agente-
Messrs. ELLIOTT HEOS., LIU,
Sydney.
Messrs. WASHINGTON 11. SOUL,
PATTINSON & CO., Sydney.
Messrs. ANTHONY HORDERN ANI)
SONS LTD., Sydney.
THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.,
Sydney.
CONDON WHOLESALE AGENTS!- ,
Howr c. Qtielch & Co. 4 & 5, Ludgate Sq„ London. EC!
MB
f QUEENSLAND.^
THE KEY TO '
PROSPERITY.
QUEENSLAND
opens the door to
prosperity tor those
requiring land
Particulars ot the
millions ol acres of
Crown Land
now available will be
sent you at once,
also Booklets on the
State's resources—
TREE
Name
Address
Queensland Government
iateiiieace dad Tourist Bureau
BRISBANE
S.B.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
-Ist-an. 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Heading Room at the Offices, 115 High Hol-
born. London. W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
“MUSTDIE”
v) st O/
-
MARK
TRADE
'
B
Certain DEATH
TO ALL
INSECTS.
Not a German Powder.
TVIUSTDIE
NON POISONOUS fWDER.
ItiCOREfIT INSECT DEStKOiIfL
“US,
1
Flies.
Fleas
Bugs
Mosquitoes
9°.
FULL DIRECTIONS WITH EACH TIN.
Sold Everywhere. Chemists, Grocers, Storekeepers.
The Red Page
Woman and the World
Whether Woodrow Wilson’s methods are
hopeless or not, it is at any rate to his
credit that he aims at peace. War is un-
redeemed horror: not even the qualities,
admirable in themselves, that are displayed
in the wqging of it mitigate the offence of
the thing itself, any more than the occa-
sional bravery of a constable makes murder
agreeable. While the war was being waged
and- it was necessary to either win or put up
with the very unpleasant consequences of
being beaten, the pacifist was a person not
to be tolerated. But the war over, the
pacifist becomes the altogether admirable
friend of civilisation. All that we have to
be careful of is that the pacifist’s methods
don’t, as they very nearly did just now,
throw civilisation to the wolves. And it is
from this point of view that the idealist
President’s campaign is open to criticism.
Benjamin Kidd, the author of “Social Evo-
lution,” wrote his new hook. The Science of
Power, while the war was still in progress ;
and that makes his scientific examination of
the laws of power all the more valuable. We
know, at any rate, that liis conclusions are
not warped in order to. support any of the
contentions which have sprung up around
the League of Nations proposal. Woodrow
Wilson is indeed mentioned only once in the
book, and that to quote front his Presidential
address in March, 1013, wherein he indicted
the social war, whose law he declared is:
“Let everyone look out for himself: let
every generation look out for itself; while
we feared giant machinery to make it im-
possible for any but those who stood at the
levers of control to look out for themselves.”
Had the President at that time formulated
a plan for a League of Nations, Kidd would
certainly have now attacked it. He appa-
rently did see the probability of a reaction
and some such scheme as the world has
been discussing:
But no material or economic cause, no agreement
between nations, can in itself abolish war. War
can never be brought to an end until the cultured
inheritance of civilisation imposed on each genera-
tion from childhood onwards, under the influence of
the emotion of the ideal, renders it as impossible for
a nation to engage in war and lose that principle
of self-respect which makes life worth living, as it
is now impossible for the normal civilised man apart
from any question whatever of material loss or
gain or punishment, to engage in robbery or murder.
Yet Kidd firmly believes that war need not
be. and will not be. Flow, then? Through
“the cultured inheritance of civilisation.” he
says, under the influence of what he calls
“the emotion of the ideal.” He is no doubt
on firm ground in arguing that national
ideals can be very quickly changed—not in
a day or two, certainly, but within a genera-
tion. Germany itself affords a striking ex-
ample of that. But—-and doubt arises here
—Kidd insists that “the world can be
changed in a brief space of time.” The
world is a big place; and we don’t all start
from the same mark. It is no use thinking
of three or four nations of Europe, with the
United States perhaps, and then talking of
“the world.” There is China, for instance —-
is it so easy to change the ideals of these
hundreds of millions, and change them in the
tame way?
There is confusion between the part and
:he whole. Kidd remarks upon the great
change which took place in Europe about
the middle of last century. At that time
Tennyson was dreaming and. singing of war-
drums that throbbed no longer and flags of
battle furled “in the Parliament of man, the
federation of the world.” But Germany
began to change completely in character, in
cmtlest and in motive. It may have been
.iuse and effect; and there is a warning for
the present in the circumstances of that
time. When a community decides to go
without locks and bolts to its doors, there is
always the danger that the circumstance
may suggest to somebody, probably of
another community, who wasn’t a thief
before, that now is the time to prepare for
robbery on a grand scale.
The trouble is not to convince a com-
munity that locks and bolts are not a good
thing in themselves. They are obviously
not: they are an expensive thing, and after
you have gone to bed on a cold night you
begin to wonder whether the key in one of
them has been left unturned. Kidd there-
fore goes to rather unnecessary trouble to
show that war can become so repugnant to
us that the stomach will rebel against it.
Our stomach does rebel against it now. But
we are not so sure that others are not in
need of conversion. For them Kidd’s con-
clusion is of greater value :
It Is not in the fighting male of the race; it is
V 1 w T lia !‘ that we have the future centre of power
in civilisation. .. .Even with all the disabilities
under which her sex has labored, woman’s mind in
the past has been the principal source of the creative
idealism of the world.
We may admit it. We may agree that
when a man has contemplated something
idealistic, he has gone to woman as a confi-
dant for her support. And we may concede
further that, even among ourselves, woman
may do great service by cultivating the ideal
of a warless world. But, while we loathe
and abominate war ourselves, what is there
for us to do if. getting ahead of others in
oui* idealism, we sustain the attack which
we have actually encouraged? And the
danger is all the greater because woman has
least influence, and apparently least desire
to exert influence, in those very peoples
among whom what Kidd call “the mind of
the primitive man”—the fighting male—is
most dominant. /The book is published by
Methuen’s, London.)
Huysmans and Decadence
A writer—or, in fact, any artist—only
transmits that vision of life which his
imaginative mind has sufficiently intensified.
There is a sense of beauty in every created
work that is artistic. Huysmans represents
an extreme type: he presents life sordid,
ugly and submerged in a wretchedness en-
tirely unleavened by even the most transient
felicity. He sees magnified the unpleasant-
ness, irrationality and topsy-turvydom of
civilisation. His art is like a fog “where
the little miseries of life loom into a vague
and formidable giotesrjueness.” At the
same time he glories in the esoteric beauty of
his subjects. He is the Apostle of Deca-
dence.
French critics of 50 years ago invented
the term Decadence in their attempts to deal
with the works of Baudelaire and Theophile
Gautier and their disciples. Decadent was
the term applied to the sad, voluptuous
poetry of the last moments of the Roman
Empire. To-day it signifies the antithesis
of- the commonplace.
In his abhorrence of the commonplace the
Decadent seeks the strange, the bizarre and
the morbid. He is a dilettante in expres-
sion, artifice and falsity. Existing vices do
not satisfy him. He invents new ones.
His characters are abnormal, perverted, or
pathological—perhaps all three. He reasons
and justifies evil: he shows you the excel-
lence of it, and he apotheosizes it.
All fiction is at bottom autobiographical;
one can invent scenes and events but not
psychology. So the man who writes wlmt
he sees, feels and experiences, if his vision
be distorted, his sense of relative values in-
significant, and his experiences morbid, is
pathological: he lives in the foetid atmo-
sphere of sick rooms, or, as Pater expresses
it, in the delicate air of decay. In a word
he is a Decadent.
Joris-Ivarl Iluysmans, descendant from a
Dutch landscape painter, was born in Paris
a 1848. His novels form a list of naturistic
fiction after the style of the de Goncourts.
Flaubert _ and Zola, up to “A liebour” and
‘La-Bas” —novels of an exotic and extra-
vagant nature, the quintessence of Decadent-
sm.
“A Reborn.” the novel on which Oscar
Wilde founded his “Picture of Dorian Gray,”
is the biography of a French degenerate, Des
Esseintes, who, with a poignant contempt for
humanity, is harassed by that worst of all
naladies, tedium vitae. He secludes himself
in a “palace of art” ; and absolutely cut off
from the vast flood of human stupidity he
lives as an aesthetic hermit. His perverted
nature runs wild in its delight in the arti-
ficial. He diverts himself with “a bou-
quet of jewels, a concert of flowers,
an orchestra of liqueurs, an orchestra
of perfumes. In flowers lie prefers the real
ones that imitate artificial ones morbid
horrors of vegetation, chosen, not for their
beauty, but for their strangeness. ... He
combines scent, weaving them into odorous
melodies, with effects like those refrains of
certain poems.” A description of the
orchestra of liqueurs may be taken as illus-
trative of the nature of these artificial sur-
roundings;
_ The ; orpn. \va* open. The stops labelled “flute,”
horn, ‘voix celeste ’ were drawn out ready for
action. Des Esseintes drank a drop here and there,
played internal symphonies and succeeded in pro-
curing in the throat sensations analogous to those
that music offers to the ear. Each liqueur corres-
ponded in taste, according- to him, to the sound of
an instrument. Dry curagoa, for "example, to the
clarionet, the tone ot which is acescent and velvety ;
kumniel brandy to the oboe, with its sonorous nasal
Bound; mint and anisette to the flute, which is at
the same time sugary and peppery, squeaking and
sweet; while to complete the orchestra, kirseh rages
with the blast of a trumpet; gin and whisky scarify
the palate with their shrill outburst of cornets and
trombones; liqueur-brand}' fulminates with the
deafening crush of the tuba; while Chjos-raki and
mastic roll on the mucous membrane like the
tliunder-clap.s of cymbals and kettledrums struck with
the arm Thus he plays string quartettes under
the vault of his palate, representing the violin with
old eau-de-vig, smoky and subtle, sharp and deli-
cate; with the tenor stimulated bv strong rum;
with vespetro as violoncello, and bitters as double-
bass ; green chartreuse was the major, while bene-
dictine the minor key.
So this bizarre story goes on until the
neurotic Des Esseintes,- who becomes subject
to peculiar hallucinations and hysteria, is
obliged to act on the advice of a doctor and
return to life in Paris.
Although we find sexual psychology
woven into modern fiction, this is no ground
for regarding that literature as bearing the
stigma of decadence and degeneration. Sex
literature has ifb place in the evolution of
our moral ideas. Naturally enough we find
members of the Decadent school, unattracted
by the straight-out psychology of human love,
turning to the more obscure aspects of the
psycho-pathology of sex.
Arthur Svmonds gives a word-picture of
Huysrnans, which we may take as somewhat
typical of the modern Decadent:
He leans back on the sofa, rolling a cigarette
between his thin, expressive fingers, looking at no
one and at nothing with the air of one perfectly
resigned to the boredom of life. Something is said
by my learned friend who is to write for the new
periodical, or perhaps it is the young editor of the
new periodical who speaks and Huvsmans, with-
out looking up, and without taking the trouble to
speak very distinctly, picks up the phrase, trans-
forms it, more likely transpieces it, in a perfectly
turned sentence, a phrase of impromptu elaboration.
Perhaps it is only a stupid book that someone has
mentioned, or a stupid woman; as he speaks the book
looms up before one, becomes monstrous in its
dullness, a masterpiece and a miracle of imbecility;
the unimportant little woman grows in slow horror
before your eves. It is always the unpleasant
aspect of things that he seizes, but the intensity
of his revolt from that unpleasantness brings a
touch of the sublime into the very expression of his
disgust. Every sentence is an epigram, and every
epigram slaughters a reputation or an idea. He
speaks with an accent as of pained surprise, am
amused look of contempt, so profound that it
becomes almost pity, for human imbecility.
Zola defines art as “Nature seen through
a temperament.” Temperamentally Iluys-
mans is decadent: be is sordid, morbid, arti-
ficial and grotesque, and so are his novels.
They are singular, masterly and decadent;
but Decadence, the realm of the strange and
perverse, always ends in moral filth and
mental aberration. Decadence is an artistic
cult, just as Tolstoyism, Wagnerism, Fre-
Raphaelism and a host of others. And as
such it falls into the natural sequence of
literary development.
REG. S. ELLERY.
What is Art?
/‘Jim M.”: ‘‘Biologist” (B. 6/3/’l9) sub-
mits many foolish things about Art But
two mis-statements will be enough to
hammer at. Firstly, he says: “A good
photograph, in spite of faults in the
process, is a truer copy of Nature than
pm best black-and-white drawing.” It
isn t. But don’t blame the process, for
it is almost faultless. The fault lies
in the instrument. The camera tries harder
(Continued on page 26.)


AuffionyHordoins
AnfamMfflmery
Roady-to-Wear
VJ*
H. 307
\ «
H.B2C
s
H. 804
H. 806
We pay carriage to any
part of N.S.W. and to the
nearest port on inter-State
and Pacific Island orders on
Family Drapery, Fashion
Goods, Men’s Wear, Cutlery,
Electroplate and Jewellery.
EADY-TO - WEAR
Hats that combine
b ashion with Economy
J
are offered in great
o
variety at Anthony Horderns’.
The illustrations on this page are
typical examples of the many
charming styles—others are illus-
trated in our portfolio of the
Fashions for Autumn and
Winter. A copy of this interest-
ing guide to the prevailing modes
will be posted free on request.
H 307. All-wool Velours, trimmed
faille ribbon. Colors: Buff, Mastic, Navy,
Black, Rose and Nigger.... ... 23/6
HB2O. Felt Hat, Velours finish,
trimmed corded ribbon, Black only, 11/6
HB(M.—Fine Tagel Hat, trimmed
corded ribbon. Colors: Navy, Rose, Black,
Nigger and Mastic 8/11
HBlB.—Tagel and Moufflon Breton
Sailor, trimmed faille ribbon. Colors:
Black, Navy, Nigger, Rose and Mastic,
10/6
HBl6.—Pedal and JLisere Straw
Hat, trimmed faille ribbon. Colors are
Black, Navy, Nigger, Rose and Mastic,
12/6
H72.—A11-wool Velours, trimmed
faille ribbon. Colors: Buff, Mastic, Navy,
Rose and Nigger 23/6
HBo6.—Fine Pedal Sailor, trimmed
band and bow of silk ribbon. Colors:
Rose, Nigger, Navy, Black and Mastic,
21/-
m
f H.BIB
w
H. 816
k
H. 72
m
'VJJ!' L *
/m
m
l
SaBCS
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS.U!
Onjy Universal Providers,
New Pal ace Emporium,
£?/
uvs
•A 0 \X
‘II I H Pieii>ioia g


DELCO LIGHT
Provides Electric Light for Country Homes, Churches, Hospitals, Schools of Arts, etc.
DELCO-LIGHT Pays for Itself.
Ask the Man Who Owns One.
Runs on Kerosene,
one gallon of wbicH will ligbt 32 Electric
Lamps for 5 Honrs. Besides fornisbing
plenty of clean, brilliant ligbt, it will operate Fans and iSmall
Motors for Household WorK., Dentists* Motors, etc*
Lowest
First Cost
Lowest
Running Cost
£
jram. -
m
I
8*
ft
*5
cut ¥
»: •
* H
>Mv
w mi
ml
The Delco-Light Engine and Generator
which generates Electricity.
The Delco-light Battery in which
the Electricity is stored.
Satisfaction
guaranteed
wherever
installed
DELCO-LIGHT IS SIMPLE, EFFICIENT and DURABLE.
D
ELCO-LIGHT consists of an engine, generator,
switchboard and set of batteries. The engine
and generator are direct connected, which does
away with any transmission losses or belt trouble, in-
creasing the efficiency of the machine. The storage
battery is of the special Delco-Light type, consisting of
sixteen glass jar cells, delivering 32-volt current. Unless
the demand for light and power is very heavy, it is
unnecessary to run the engine, except when the storage-
battery requires recharging.
Electricity is stored up in the battery by means of
the generating unit. Wires lead from the light and power
connections to this storage-battery, from which electric
current is used as desired for light or power.
You will find Delco-Light to be a model of simplicity.
When it becomes necessary to re-charge the battery the
engine is started by merely pressing on the starting-
switch located on the switchboard. This electrically
cranks the engine, just as the automobile engine is
cranked by an electric self-starter. Ihe engine starts
running on its own power in a few seconds. It can then
be left to itself, as when the battery is completely charged
the Delco-Light engine stops automatically.
The supply of kerosene is regulated by means o
a simple lever-operated mixing valve. Moving the lever
to the right or left regulates the supply of fuel.
There is only one place to put oil. The crank case
is designed to hold about three quarts of oil, and a rapidly
revolving gear carries a fine spray to all parts requiring
lubrication.
The reliability of Delco-Light has been proved through
actual service under trying conditions. It has been
thoroughly tested in every possible way, both in the shop
and in practical service on the farm and in the home.
Nothing has been left to chance. The tests have been
more severe than any service an owner would require.
Delco-Light is made by the same Works which have
Delco-Lighted and started over one million Motor-cars^
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Warburton,
Franki Ltd.,
507-311 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY.
VICTORIA 8 TASMANIA
War burton,
Franki Ltd.,
380-382 BOURKE STREET
MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND:
Smellie $ Co.
Ltd.,
BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Parsons S
Robertson Ltd.,
GRENFELL STREET,
ADELAIDE.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Geo. Wills
and Co.,
PERTH.
NEW ZEALAND:
A. D. RILEY 800. LTD.
WELLINGTON.
FARMERS' CO-OP. Ass'n
CHRISTCHURCH.


FOR SEA SICKNESS
& TRAIN SICKNESS
MOTHERSILL’S has received the
unqualified endorsement of the leading
papers of the world, and the finest testl*
monials from the world’s greatest men,
women, and institutions. Amongthese are
Bishop Taylor-Smith (Chaplain General
of the British Forces), Doctors, Bankers,
Polytechnic Tours, Salvation Army, etc.
*
Sold Under a Positive Guarantee to
Prevent and Cure Sea or Train
Sickness or Money Returned.
MOTHERSILL’S is guaranteed not to contain
Cocaine, Morphine, Opium, Chloral, or any ot
the coal-tar products.
NO BAD AFTER EFFECTS.
All Chemists, in Large and Small Boxes.
MOTHERSILL REMEDY CO.. LTD.,
Corner Clarence ft Market Sts.. Sydney,
M.
USE
ertra
m
1
m
s*«
SAUCE
being thick
can be taken
with the meat,
justlike mustard
besides the
new flavour
is much
nicer.
THE GREAT BRITISH
RHEUMATIC REMEDY.
CrOUT v
AND RHEUMATIC PILLS
The Famous Medicine that relieves
RiiLIIMATISM, GOUT, LUMBAGO, SCIATICA,
The Great Discovery of the Age.
Purely Vegetable. Sure and Safe.
All Drug Stores. English price, 1/3 and 3 /-.
PrOut & Co.. 220, Strand. London.
imilliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiniiimiiimiiiiiiiniiy
MADE FROM LEMONS ONLY/!§%?)/,
BROOKE’S,,
B
L
st
emorv
Sqvask
m
Lwk &
VM
li
&L
mmm
\om
mmwmixsm
IftTa
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
The Largest and Most Successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
HEAD OFFICE .. 87 PITT STREET, SIDNEY.
Directors : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman; Hon. R. J.
Black, M.L.C. ; Hon. Sir Jas. Burns, K.C.M.G., M.L.C.; Adrian Knox, Esq., K.C., C.M.G.; Sir Samuel
Hordern; Richard Teece, Esq.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A.. Actuary. H. W. APPERLY, General Manager.
Accumulated Funds, £38,000,000. Annual Income, £5,500,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR..
Although nearly .-£ 1.000,000 was paid during 1917 in war claims alone, the Cash Bonus divided for th«
.year 1917, including Interim Bonuses, was £585,397. Total Bonuses distributed, £23,138,000.
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards.
r ' ' " j
[^3 '
VL
J \
l
H
Vi* 1.
TO*
\ k m
,f'} K
> t lorn:
p
IP
m
mmM
mmrn.
w
Clybesbale
MOTORjjjjjjj LORRIES
Long Lives Lived
A motor lorry lives longer in four
weeks of war service than is de-
manded in years of commercial
usage. In the former Clydesdales
by riotor Lorries.
are faithfully doing their bit, and
in the latter their inbuilt Stamina
brings a new phase of durability to
bear on the user’s problems.
Special Clydesdale Features
Krebs’ Automatic Controller main-
tains constant engine speeds.
Separate unit four-speed gear-box.
Worm-drive axle.
Straight Copper Tube Radiator.
Massive frame with deep centre
section.
H. D. VAN BRUNT, Factory Representative,
P.O. Box 2093, Sydney, AUSTRALIA.
New South Wales Distributor:
E. HARDY-JOHNSTON,
350 Kent Street,
SYDNEY.
New Zealand Distributors:
INGLIS BROS. & CO. DTD.,
Harris Street, WELLINGTON.
T. E. SHIEL & CO.,
Stafford Street, DUNEDIN.
THE CLYDE CARS CO., Clyde, Ohio, U.S.A,
WORN BEARINGS
What do they mean?
The repair man says: “That knock? Worn bearings.”
Tightening will temporarily remedy the trouble. Refitting
or renewing is the only permanent remedy. But it is more
important to know what will help prevent this expensive
operation.
To the eye, the surface of a bearing is smooth. But
under the microscope it has a very different appearance.
You see a succession of little hills and valleys.
Now, imagine the engine in motion.
What happens?
Surfaces are in motion. Unless protected by a correct
film of lubricating oil, the microscopic hills of metal meet
and rub. The engine-power overcomes this resistance, but
tiny particles of metal grind off.
By degrees the snug fit becomes a loose ‘fit. Noise
follows. To correct this condition now, the bearings must
be refitted or renewed.
The only protection against undue wear, of bearings is the
thin film of oil.
This thin film of oil must be highly elastic. It must fill-in the
valleys. It must cushion the peaks and withstand pressure. •It
must stand up under the heat of service. These requirements call
for oil of the very highest quality and of the correct body and
character.
Gargoyle Mobiloils meet these requirements with scientific exact-
ness. Used as specified in the Chart of Recommendations (mailed
free on request), they effectively cushion the bearing surfaces, and
meet the most severe demands of service and heat.
obiloils
A grade for each type oj motor
In buying Gargoyle Mobiloils from your dealer, it is safest to
purchase in original packages. Look for the red Gargoyle on the
container. If the dealer has not the grade specified for your car,
kindly write our nearest branch, giving dealer’s name and address.
Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Ltd.
Specialists in the manufacture of high-grade
Lubricants for every class of machinery.
Thioughout A uslralasia
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dreams.
Sometimes, between the melodies of Thought
That flow like light above the shores ot
speech,
There comes a pause on strings ot silence
wrought
From looms beyond our reach. >
Soundless as snow upon a winter noon,
It floods my being into ecstasy,
Setting some inner harmony attune
Unmixed with earth and sea.
Then all the world appears a little dream —
A fairy ship upon a sea of fire;
And light on light goes heading down the
stream
Of old and new desire.
Books, pictures, treasuries of man and maid
Pass to the music of a noiseless song.
I close this volume where your fancies played
And drift with them along.
Crowds, masts, dim cars and gleaming cita-
dels,
What are they, dearest, but a dream of
dreams
God hears within us like some rain of bells
Fresh as His springs and streams?
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.
An Invitation.
Come away from the city of strident voices,
Come down to the place where the wild
things be,
To the shore where the pine with the wind
rejoices,
Down here at the edge of the clean salt sea
Its touch will banish all little creases
That care has graved on your forehead
smooth;
An anodyne streams from its foamy fleeces —
An olden magic with power to soothe.
Perplexed no more by the whence and
whither,
The veil unlifted, the flying gleam,
From the shore, forgetful of years that
wither,
You may set sail in a boat of Dream.
And sail and sail on through ages and
spaces
By many a city that Beauty had crowned
Ere Time had o’er-trampled its aulic places
And its proud Atlantean turrets drowned ;
To the Land of the Young, on the sun-track
showing,
That Tir-nan-og where no love grows cold,
And on, where in crystal and rose-fire glow-
ing,
Hy-Brazil floats ringed by its margin of gold.
For there, where the rim of the curved sky
lies on
The uttermost reach of the sea’s blue stream,
Beyond the dim line of the flying horizon,
All dreamers have fashioned their cities of
dream.
In song they upbuilt them, they raised them
ip story,
They spun them from gold of the radiant
noon,
From all rich deep dyes of the day’s last,
glory
And the opaline lights of the mystical moon.
From the purple beauty of eve they were
moulded.
From starlight and pearl, from foam and
from fire:
With sea-peril guarded and magic enfolded
Stream the cities and plains of the heart’s
desire.
Though man may not gain past the deep
straits that sever
To the palac»>; empty and spaces untrod,
This world of his dreams shall glitter for-
ever,
Like the world which flowered from the
dreams of God.
When your boat sails back from the violet
meadows
You may beach it here, in the shallows
green.
And go back to the city, chasing your
shadows —•
With the things that are real awhile you
have been.
N.S.W.
P. E. QUINN.
Two There Loved in Lyonnesse.
Two there loved in Lyonnesse,
Lost land of fire the billows hold.
Ah, the fairy drink of Ireland !
Ah, the walking in the Fire-land I
Ah, the hollow British queening!
Ah, the bitter Breton keening!
Ah, the queening of Isolde!
Two there loved in Camelot,
That song of Merlin masoned fair.
Ah, the riding and the majdng,
Looks and hearts that fell a-straying,
Love at either shining bridle!
Two that from a woodland idyll
Rode to Camelot and care!
Two there loved in„ Rimini.
The dark tower of Rimini.
Two there died in Rimini
With the dawn for company.
Ah, the dead-bell booming, booming,
Yi hen the Malatesta’s dooming
Rolled the night on Rimini!
Two and two and two in Aidenn,
In the piteous middle place.
Is the mist of Aidenn gainless?
Lovers all have wept them stainless;
Saints have prayed away their sorrow;
Shall not Aidenn have a morrow?
Mary, purest, give them grace!
MAORILAND.
JESSIE MACKAY.


More Good
Words for
Messrs. Chambers and Walker, the well-known Auctioneers and Co amission Agents of
Moss Vale, are obliged to traverse all kinds of bad roads, requiiii.g rom their tyres the
most exacting service.
Perdriau Rubber Company, Ltd.
270 George Street, Sydney.
Chambers & Walker,
Argyle Street,
Moss Vale, 4th March, 1919.
We have much pleasure in stating that the two 31x4 Perdriau Covers were fitted to
our Ford car on the 7th January, 1917, same being placed on the back wheels ; also that during
the above period the car has run 6650 miles in all weathers and on all kinds of roads.
The covers have shown more than excellent results, in fact, appear good for another
1500 miles.
It appears to us that a difficulty exists in obtaining just the right kind of tyre for our
particular work, but those supplied by your firm seem to just suit us.
In view of the above, will you kindly place two more covers of a like nature in your
preserving chambers, so that we may be able to obtain same when required. Size is as
previously ordered.
We take this opportunity of writing as above in view of the exellence of the cover referred to.
Thanking you in anticipation,
We are, yours faithfully,
CHAMBERS & WALKER,
per (Signed) NORfIAN T. COX.
PERDRIAU TYRES are obtainable from your local garage or from the manufacturers —
PERDRIAU RUBBER Co. Ltd.
270 George Street, Sydney.
a/s° Flinders Street, Melbourne
Adelaide Street 7 Brisbane
Gawler Place , Adelaide
Murray Street, Perth
FLIES CARRY DISEASE.
INSECTIBANE
KILLS FLIES and
OTHER INSECTS.
Obtainable at all Chemists and Stores
throughout tbe Commonwealth.
A Good Square Meal In
Every Tin
That's one big reason why “Rex” Camp Pie is the most
popular pack for the lunch tin.
You need a good sustaining meal at midday—you certainly
get it in every tin of—
“REX”
CAMP PIE
Take a whole tin — that'll be fust enough for you and you r
mate.
“Rex” Camp Pie is quite d fferent from the usual tinned
meat. It is appetizing and nourishing, prepared in the
special “ Rex’ ’ way by good Australian workers.
The wife will find it a good plan to keep a tin in the house
for emergencies.
TO STOREKEEPERS !
Your customers read these announcements.
They use “ Rex” Goods—their friends use
them. Are YOU supplying them ?
•a.
3
V)
vrf// -'
%
j£
nmimmmn
h am
□
?> bacon
Tongue.
and
V£Al
YBB
FOGG ITT, JONES & Co. Ltd.
Packers of “Rex" Pure Food Products
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon.
J 675
Why Experiment with Tool Steel ?
Sanderson Bros, and Newbould are celebrated Sheffield Steel Makers. You can
buy tool steel at all prices, but without a reputation behind the steel you are
simply going to experiment. Why do that when you have the experiences of
careful engineers to guide you?
Sanderson Bros. & Newbould’s
High-Speed Sheffield Tool Steel
is known, for its continuous reliability. There are grades for every class of work
which are used continuously by engineering workshops, garages and mines, because
they stand up to the job year after year. We have large stocks of Air Hardening
High-Speed Tool Steel for machine-tool operation ; Cast Steel for Small Tools and
Mining Drills; nlso Engineers’ and Millsaw Files, Rip and Peg-tooth Circular
Saws, Frame or Vertical, Crosscut and Band Saws —all made by this celebrated
Sheffield concern. Write for Prices.
BENSON BROTHERS LTD.,
76-78 Liverpool St., Sydney. 71-75 Queen’s Bridge St, South Melbourne. 138 Currie St., Adelaide.
Insist on
THORNE’S
WHISKY.
The perfect flavor and bouquet of
Thorne’s Whisky has been the secret
of its undoubted popularity for over
eighty years.
Call for Thorne’s next time. It is
unquestionably the finest whisky that
Scotland produces.
O.H.M. “Incomparable.”
SPECIALS
Men of circumstance smoke Figaros. Their fragrance
of flavor appeals particularly to the man who rejects any
but a first-rate cigar. Seledt a Figaro next time.
THE CIGAR THAT SATISFIES.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Voi. 40.—N0. 2011.
Till RSI)AY, MARCH 27, 1919.
Pkice 6d.
THE KING IS DEAD—LONG LIVE THE KING!


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 fix, fid. per annum you can have The Bulletin
sent regularly to you. every week for a year, to any
ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches '(those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding tivo columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Thh Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be le-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotcli, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetoivn and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., ))l Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.9.A.— N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco : Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal. ; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home News Agency, 763 Richards
Street Honolulu.
Egypt. —-Ignace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Iloung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hono Kong. — Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
' Postage Bates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Ilowe Islands,
lOos., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
lid. Only one neicspaper should be enclosed in each
packet—olhervnse: 80s., lid.; Sioz. to 10oz., 3d.;
lOoz. to 120 z., Sid.; elseivhere, ioz., lid., and id. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, MARCH 27, 1919.
BRICKS.
Amid the 1276 lamentations about house
famine which transpired last week, one
from (N.S.W.) was distinctive. The
house-hunger there is set down to want of
bricks. In most pladls it is said that some
parties unknown, commonly- described as
“they,” who ought to build houses for rent-
ing, won’t do it, out of sheer malice. At
Wagga it is said “they” might do it if
“they” could get bricks, but “they” can’t.
In 1912 the Ma State had 202 brickworks
employing 3128 persons and turning out
383,656,000 bricks. In 1917, while the
clamor for houses was constantly increas-
ing, there were only 169 works employing
2384 people and turning out 229,959,000
bricks. In spite of a considerable increase
in the horse-power of machinery, which
helped to make more goods, and despite the
increased value of the goods, the total value
put out per worker diminished. It repre-
sented about £4 Bs. 6d. per week per
employee, out of which had to come the
employee’s wages, also rent, interest, taxes,
water supply, fuel, cost of selling, bad
debts, the boss’s cost of living, and all
sundries. The wages were too high in pro-
portion to the reduced work done, which
was 122,600 bricks per man in 1912 with
inferior machinery, as compared with
96,400 bricks per man in 1917 with im-
proved and more costly apparatus. The
“go-slow” was equal in itself to a 20 per
cent, increase on piece-work rates. So
the brickmaking capitalist to a great ex-
tent went out of business, either because
he had lost his capital or because he was
beginning to lose it. So also there are
brickworks which could be bought far below
cost, to be worked by co-operative labor on
the One Big Union principle of the em-
ployees owning the workshops and getting
the full produce thereof; but nothing is
doing. The One Big Union proposes to “take
over” the workshops—in other words, it
thinks it could make a do of things if it
“appropriated” all the buildings, land,
plant, machinery and stock and prohibited
local competition by abolishing the em-
ployer. But it doesn’t seem able to do
anything without confiscating a ready-made
business. At all events, it creates nothing,
not even a brickyard, and it doesn’t buy
one even if it is offering at Is. in the^f.
The brick trouble is the trouble as
regards many other materials. Also, in the
big cities at all events, the price of the
land to put a house on has been going up
in a dazzling fashion under the boom in-
fluence of a lavish issue of paper money
and the lavish scattering of Federal war
loans and Federal and State peace loans.
Next, when the necessary sixteenth of an acre
is acquired it is found that the cost of
putting the bricks, etc., together has
gone up even higher than the cost of the
bricks. Further, there is a steady expan-
sion in taxes and a steady expansion in the
hostility shown towards the man who rents
houses to the poor ; in fact, lie is objected
to equally for having houses and being a
cormorant, and for not supplying more
houses and being more of a cormorant. The
theory that he (or she) is always an afflu-
ent robber, after the manner of people in
London described by Dickens very long
ago, is in the same category with the idea
still held by some people in Britain that all
Australians are either gold-diggers or
bushrangers: and by some people here and
elsewhere that all South Americans are
professional revolutionists; arid by many
people in many places that all Jews are
rich, and that Africa is full of undiscovered
but highly-civilised kingdoms which are
steadily brought to light by Rider Hag-
gard. As a matter of fact, the position has
changed beyond all knowledge in recent
years. A person who proposed to build
small houses, not for prompt sale before
they have time to fall down, but that
they may be let to unemployed brickmakers
and shipwrights and returned soldiers with
no jobs in view, would excite his relatives
to put him in a lunatic asylum. Only flats
are being constructed in numbers, a
flat being a place up a common stair like
a tenement-house, devoid of a garden or
yard, and supplying three unfurnished
rooms, a bath and a toy kitchen for £2 or
£2 10s. per week. People of moderate
means live in these places because they
can’t do better; also because one strenuous
woman can accomplish all the work; also
because they 'are called flats instead of
tenements or slums. Some of them, built
before the war, pay splendidly, Others of
them, built with imported materials at
war prices, nay moderately.
* * * * «
In a general way the frightful borrowing
boom has shoved up the interest on Gov-
ernment securities so high that it is more
satisfactory to buy them and -sit tight than
to furnish artisans with domiciles. The
same boom has diverted so many people
from productive industries to loan works
that it has made local house-building
material scarce. At the same time it has
set up a wage standard of its own, for
people who are paid with other people’s
money may be paid anything. And it has
made the steadily-employed class who are
good tenants rather scarce. The landlord
is a bird of prey, like most other folk, when
he gets the chance; but he has gone to prey
elsewhere, and has left the worker to be
a State tenant or to build and possess
his own house, either personally or co-
operatively. The landlord has been told that
he is to be eliminated, and he is eliminating
himself. A remarkable proportion of house-
owners now are elderly. Their premises
are elderly also. Both the houses and the
owners are relics of the years after the
great smash of 1898, w r hen land and
materials and wages were' all cheap, when
there were no 5| per cent. Government
securities to buy because the Governments
were borrowing very little and doing it at
8| or 3J per cent., when there was no Gov-
ernment paper money, and when shares of
all sorts were paying small dividends and
companies of most sorts looked shaky.
People then put their little bit into bricks
and mortar for safety. Nowadays, with
wages about twice what they w r ere at the tail-
end of last century, and working hours short-
ened, and the price of everything gone up
sky-high, and about £400,000,000 more
‘‘wealth” in the shape of Government notes
and bonds and debentures flying about than
there w r as recently, Australia bids fair to
be reduced to sleeping six in a room or
else, like any other inebriate, under a tree.
Apparently its civilisation has got drunk
or tied itself in a knot. State housing and
towm-planning have been talked about for
years and a Federal house-builder has been
appointed at £125 a month, but all that has
been done hardly amounts to a hen-house
or a beehive. It being too expensive in-
doors and too wet or, too hot or too cold or
too much infested bv dogs and ants out
of doors, the question where this glorious
Commonwealth will doss becomes urgent.
THE IRISH REPUBLIC.
It is not worth while to speculate whether
the Irish Republic will come to pass this
year or next. The outstanding fact is that
events are shaping to make it inevitable.
The Peace Conference is at work mapping
out a scheme by which no white nation in
all the world is to be attached against its
will to another nation. The great Peace
League of self-determined nations is at the
same time being formed. And it can’t well
be used to prohibit one, and only one, of the
most clearly defined peoples from being self-
determined. A race which has been scat-
tered all over the earth and still preserved
its identity isn’t of the undefined or dis-
appearing sort. Nor can Britain remain
in the invidious position of being the one
white slaver left and the chief apostle of
liberty at the same time. The laughter of
the world would make an end of the anom-
aly, and it would be cackled to death. The
only possible plea for letting things fflide is
that the Irish people don’t want separation.
The recent election settled that matter.
Rightly or wrongly, wisely or unwisely,
with a marvellous unanimity the Irish in
Ireland, as distinct from the alien commer-
cial and land-owning garrison which Britain
has put in the country, threw over the de-
mand for mere autonomy inside the empire,
and demanded the Real Thing. They ask
for independence and nothing less.
* * * *
Ireland was annexed, more or less and
with great difficulty, at a time when the
rulers of England wanted a show of
territory to make for themselves a Great
Power.* There being then no _ America or
India or Australia or Africa in European
politics, the idea of the French princes who
had acquired England was to build up a
West European empire. It was to consist
of their own French territories (comprising
the best and biggest part of France), Eng-
land (including Wales), Scotland and Ire-
land. The vision had a marvellous collapse.
The hereditary French territories, the back-
bone of the empire, threw their princes
overboard and left them marooned in Eng-
land. Scotland couldn’t be conquered,
though it turned the tables by annexing
England when the race of the French kings
in England was extinct. But Ireland was
held tenaciously. The place had a special
value when arable or pasture land sur-
face—almost any kind of land, includ-
ing the rocks of the Scottish high-
lands and islands —represented practically
the only form of capital. That was before
the possessors of coal and iron deposits and
of the ground on which big cities stand be-
came the real magnates. And it was before
swift refrigerated steamers drew food from
the wider places of the earth. There was
a great manufacturing value, too, attached
to Ireland when animal-power, wind-power,
and above all water-power were the driving
forces. But when coal became the supreme
driving force there was a re-shuffle of
nations. Coal and iron are generally found
in proximity. The countries which had them
in abundance like England, Wales, South
Scotland, Belgium, Germany, Northern
France (when it included Alsace-Lorraine)
and Austria rushed to the front. The regions
that were short of them, such as Ireland,
North Scotland, Portugal, Spain, Italy and
Greece, backslid to the rear, especially when,
like Spain, Italy and Greece, the curse of
barrenness was on them as well. Finally
there existed a theory, from the days of
Henry 11. to those of Mary (described by
religious fanatics as Blanky), that the pos-
session of Ireland, Scotland and the adja-
cent coast of France was essential to Eng-
land’s security. There was reason in this
when England was the whole empire that
had to be defended. Now, when the outer
defence line has shifted to the Pacific and
the Himalayas and the St. Lawrence River,
the presence of a weak Irish republic a few
miles west of England seems of much less
account and much more easy to put up with
than the existence of a strong French re-
public a few miles south-east. Anyhow, if
an Irish republic wantonly attacked or con-
sumed against Britain the League of
Nations would settle the matter. That is
what the League is for.
* * # *
With such a League in existence it will
be unbelievable and beyond all reason that
the biggest empire the world ever saw
should be kept in turmoil on account of
an alien race which doesn’t want to be
assimilated, and for the sake of a troubled
sovereignty over an island little larger than
Tasmania —a sovereignty which merely re-
presents the crumbled ideal of some old
Anglo-French kings who are crumbled them-
selves. For there is turmoil; it can be
heard all over the empire from Dan to Beer-
sheba and beyond Beersheba. The place
would doubtless be of material value to its
own peaceful people, but it is a nuisance to
the empire. Even if its share of the national
debt had to be written off on the day of
emancipation, Ireland’s contribution to the
interest on the debt, after deducting special
expenses in keeping order, is not very much.
The poverty of the country is evidenced by the
fact that the revenue from its railways is
less than one-third that of the smaller
country of Scotland and about one-twenty-
fifth that of the not very much larger coun-
try of England. It is a common theory
that Ireland must be held for e-er, at any
cost, lest British capitalists who have in-
vested not very much money there should be
Bolsheviked by the new Government. But
these people would at least have the Brit-
ish ambassador and the British consuls and
the League of Nations to appeal to in the
improbable event of any Bolsheviking. Also
an Irish republic which went mad might be
blockaded —which can’t be done now with-
out blockading the British Empire. The
League might even give a mandate to one
of its members, which could take an un-
biased view of the case, to restore order.
Still the chance of any such contingency
arising seems very small.
* * * *
Under the new order the position in the
empire outside Ireland would be remarkable.
All Irishmen would automatically become
aliens. If they emigrated they would cease
to have votes, to be eligible for seats in
Parliament, or to be qualified for any im-
portant official positions. If they returned
to Ireland they would be aliens there —
unless, indeed, it was held that through the
establishment of the new republic they had
become aliens in the foreign land wherein
they had settled. They would be liable to
be deported to Ireland if they proved danger-
ous and undesirable citizens, just as the
undesirable Hebrew might have been shipped
to Palestine if the old independent Hebrew
kingdom had been restored. The disadvan-
tage of having a country lies in the fact that
one can be sent back to it. In all these
respects the person of British birth or
parentage in Ireland would be under the
same disadvantages. There would, of course,
be an Irish ambassador and Irish consuls to
appeal to in times of trouble, with the in-
fluential League of Nations in the back-
ground. Also, there would be the resource
of naturalisation, but that would involve
forswearing allegiance to the new republic,
and possibly a rigid inquiry as to whether
the candidate was likely to be a genuine and
Whole-hearted non-Irish citizen or simply a
person who wanted to introduce extinct Irish
affaifs into Australian politics. Naturalisa-
tion is a privilege, not a right.
One of the features of the changed situa-
tion which arises out of the Sinn Fein elec-
tion triumph is that Australian politicians
have now every right to take a strenuous
official interest in Irish affairs. When the
question was merely one of Home Rule—of
autonomy within the empire—the matter
could not possibly affect the status of any-
body in Australia and was no concern of
ours. Now that it has been made a matter
of absolute independence it may affect the
status of a large number of people in Aus-
tralia, including some of the politicians them-
selves. These people have either to remain
Australian citizens and voters or be the dis-
franchised subjects of a foreign Power.
There is no middle course, for if the Irish
subject isn’t treated strictly as an alien, the
Italian, Chinese, Japanese, Hun and Russian
stranger will have the right to demand simi-
lar consideration, and aliens may in time
rule some of the States—possibly the Com-
monwealth itself.
THE AMATEUR ON THE BENCH.
“The country abounds in practical men of capacity.
The thing is to discover them. This man is driving
a cart when’ he ought to be-a Minister; that man
is a Minister when he ought to be driving a cart. ’
—Napoleon.
The British Army at the beginning of the
war was an admirable organisation—the
most efficient fighting force for its size in
the world. But in many respects it was
an anachronism —a survival of the press-
gang epoch. The organisers of the Austra-
lian Army borrowed many of its features.
Some were quickly scrapped —for example,
the idea of an officer caste. Others, quite
illogically, were retained. One was the
theory that every officer is, ipso facto, a
trained advocate, an open-minded prosecu-
tor, a chamber lawyer and a judge. Iu
the pre-war British Army there was some-
thing to be said for the idea. Every officer
was specially educated for his profession,
and part of the course consisted of a ground-
ing in the rudiments of the law of evidence
and procedure and the Army Act. No such
opportunities offered in the A.I.F. Many
of the original senior officers were men who
happened to be in the C.M.F. in 1914. They
were anything, in civil life, from candle-
stick-makers to doctors. Others were ex-
British N.C.O.’s —stout fellows, with loud
voices and sharp eyes for an unpolished boot,
but neither lawyers nor men of education.
Things were no better when a new class of
officer began to arrive—-the man who had
won his commission by work in the field.
He might be a highly-skilled and brave raider,
bomber or gunner, but very rarely did he
know anything about law or possess the
judicial temperament. Men got commis-
sions for being vets, parsons, doctors, den-
tists and many other things, but never for
being judges. There were Red Cross
colonels and Comforts Funds majors, but
not so much as one lieutenant-defender.
The whole legal and judicial work of an
army consisting of thousands of citizens
with reputations to lose was (and is; left
to chance.
# # • *
Concrete facts are the only means of
bringing home to the public and the politi-
cians tlie imbecilities which occurred, aud
which are occurring, In slightly different
form, at the present time. Here are a few;
Major X. was a C.M.F. officer. In civil life a
storekeeper. Second in command on a transport. A
mock court-martial was organised on board so that
the junior officers might learn how the thing was
done, the Major, as president, undertaking to explain
the intricacies of the business as the case proceeded.
Both sides hotly cross-examined their own witnesses.
Early in the proceedings the prisoner’s friend (a
solicitor’s clerk, who at least had sufficient training
to be able to read the Manual of Military Law under-
claimed the release of the accused on the
grounds that no summary of evidence had been
supplied, or, for that matter, taken (the Major's
fault) ; that the charge-sheet had not been signed
(his neglect again) ; that the prisoner had not been
supplied with the names of the members of the
court (ditto) ; and, finally, that the court had never
been convened (ditto). This same major, a month or
so later, was trying soldiers on charges involving long
terma in gaols.
Gunner R. G. was lined up for being 11 days
A.W.L. and sundries. The summary of evidence (the
military equivalent of the depositions in a police
court) was incorrectly taken. This involved R.G.
being kept in detention for another fortnight. On
the new summary arriving it was found that there
was no duplicate charge-sheet. Then later the whole
thing had to be re-opened, as there was “not sufficient
evidence in support of the second charge.” On the
fourth attempt an intimation arrived from H.Q. that
A.F.O. 1618 would have to be produced as an
exhibit; and on the fifth attempt an official who had
taken no previous interest in the affair minuted that
certain evidence was useless, and would have to be
deleted. All this time li.G.’s pay was in abeyance.
He broke out of gaol. On being re-captured the
business started afresh. He was first arrested on
November 18, 1916; he was brought to trial on May
24, 1917.
* * * *
In France, after repeated representations,
a form of will was issued to all units. Pre-
viously the soldier had only the form in his
pay-book, which makes no provision for the
bequeathing of real property. Many law-
yers were of the opinion that a will made on
the official form might prove invalid. The
men got wind of this and became distrust-
ful. But there was no one to whom, they
could go for an authoritative pronounce-
ment. There were soldiers who had left
farms, orchards and businesses in the care of
relations, friends and persons holding their
powers of attorney. Some of them got
word from Australia that these concerns
were being mismanaged or had been aban-
doned altogether. The best they could do
was to get advice from amateurs, or from
lawyers who had no reference books and
who had onerous military work on hand.
The separation allowance system was highly
complicated and it was in a chronic state of
flux —it has been changed in detail ten times
in the last two years. Many of the men
never knew where they stood in this respect.
They were worried unendingly by depend-
ants who didn’t understand the position; and
their own exasperated speculations, _ made
and committed to paper amidst the miseries
and distractions of trench life, failed, use-
ally, to clear up the problem. To these men
a sound lawyer would have been mare
acceptable, often; than. any number of Com-
forts Funds goods.
* * • *
It is not too late, even now. to mend
matters. As regards court-martials the
best class of A.I.F. officer has all along
recognised that, where he was not a lawyer,
he was in a false position while sitting as a
judge. This type avoided going on court-
martials wherever possible. The commis-
sioned laymen in the A.I.F. would be the
last, probably, to resent a change which
freed them finally from an unwanted respon*


sibility. No offence which is triable by the
civil courts should, anyhow, be any more
triable by court-martial. In the case of
specifically military offences it ought to be
possible to arrange for every member of the
court, and everyone appearing officially
before it, to be a lawyer of standing. It
would add to the dignity of the courts; and
it would give the Army and the public a con-
fidence in them which is at present lacking.
There remain the incompetents at the differ-
ent headquarters who mishandle cases before
they come to trial. There are surely enough
experts here and in England to replace them.
And in the meantime, a corps of experienced,
level-headed legal advisers for the men is as
badly needed now as it has been for the last
four and a half years.
THE SMILE AND THE MAP.
“Every Australian business-man should carry a
map ot.China in his head.” —T. W. Heney.
From Hai-nan to Shing-king, with endless
twists and turns and inlets and river-
mouths, the coast swelters in the heat of in-
ternational jealousy, and China smiles, wait-
ing for The Day. The smile is China’s
grand asset, and it has thousands of years
of justification. But The Day will be no
military triumph. China does not think
that way; never has thought that way.
The note of Confucius with regard to con-
scription in a remote period ilc. was twin
brother to that of 11. E. Boote in Sydney at
last Referendum. Yet China is a tre-
mendous force notwithstanding, and a force
that has been waiting since the time of
Moses to assert, itself. Somewhere in those
lost ages China made a civilisation of
its own; then paused, looked round
and waited for the world to come up.
That waiting produced a smile, the
smile of those who think their victory
sure. Alexander and Mahomet in turn
set the western East afire. ■ Chind smiled
on. Mogul and Manehu came and did
things that were loud and hurtful, even to
the extent of hanging a pigtail on the
nation. China grinned, bore it; and then,
after a few centuries, smiled on as before.
No means, ancient or modern, were found for
stopping that smile, because The Day was
sure and China waited for it. The position
was perfectly plain to China. One-third of
the human race—the largest homogeneous
racial accumulation of men on the planet,
placed in what was almost its richest region
—stood for something definite in the way of
evolutionary progress. The rest stood" for
mixed and freakish progress; and obviously
The Day was for those whose general ad-
vance had definition and form. From the
Chinese viewpoint the highest men in China
were the equals of Europe’s best, the poorest
men in China above the average of Euro-
peans. Hence the smile. It was only
necessary to wait for The Day to write
Q.E.D. in Chinese characters to the human
problem.
* * * #
Of course, it would be absurd to suggest
that a knowledge or understanding of these
things lay behind each individual smile; but
behind the individual thought is a national
consciousness, which, in the case of a nation
as great and old as China, has almost the
force of an organic brain. To know this
is to get a fair amount of prophetic insight
into the future. Europe has produced some
things to which the higher European mind
clings with a conviction of tenderness and
devotion. The steam-engine dogs not so
much matter; but there are little things of
the home and the outlook upon life that do
matter, for they are really the greatest things
the white man has developed. Somewhere
in the future comes a struggle between the
Asiatic mind—which is China and nothing
else —and the subtle something which, if it
has not yet in any definite sense lifted the
man of Europe above the man of Asia in the
business of living, has in it the seeds and
germs of a grander progress than Con-
fucius ever contemplated. To save that
is to save the world ; and it cannot be saved
unless the white man fairly grasps the idea
of the thing he is up against. That thing
is not force of arms and horror of bloody
battles to be waged by his children —though
a little fooling with age-long realities could
readily make it so—but an influence and a
mode of thought, deep-seated almost as eter-
nity, that can subtly and surely destroy all
that has been worth while in the white man’s
soul since the frost-cap crept back from the
Danube to the Polar seas. To imagine that
the world’s problems are merely economic, to
imagine that a piece of bread and a handful
more or less of gold are the things to be
considered, is to miss the keynotes alto-
gether. The white man has very precious
things to guard for his children; and in
grasping at the petty advantage of the
moment he can easily destroy whatever
vantage-ground he now has for the struggle
that is to come.
* * * *
To Australia the white race must look
for the guardianship of its treasure. Here,
with a whole continent in which to develop,
the man of the future may fortify himself
in all that Asia missed, and will continue to
miss. To go out and exploit the boundless
markets of China may appear tempting
enough at the hour to the Australian busi-
ness man who is advised to keep the map
of the country-where-the-smile-is under his
hat; but what about the exploitation of
things more important than trade? Is it a
reasonable thing to suppose that a small
nation in the process of its earliest develop-
ment can get into closest and most favorable
trade relations with an old, settled mass of
condensed national thought represented by
a • people numerically one hundred times
greater and. getting rich from that relation-
ship, maintain the subtle individuality that
holds all its future promise? By all means
keep the map of ; China in view; keep the
map of the world' in view. But it is the
map of half-empty Australia which should
be always in Australian thought. America
rm- , pan ma y. Wrestle and wrangle for
China s trade, winning or losing on a boy-
cott or a commercial treaty ; but Australia
can do far bigger things on her own ground
where the good smile of the sun will ripen
the seed long sown in the field of a white
man’s heart. Idealism wins every time —
the late war proved it beyond all contro-
versy. In dealing with China we are
dealing with an idealism which has grown
through the ages, which we do not under-
stand and never can understand. The safe-
guard against that is to maintain our own
idealism. White Australia is worth more
to us than all the dollars to be gathered in
a thousand years from Tong-king to Man-
churia ; and the thing that makes it of worth
is the spirit that will keep it clean and true.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Great Boss Dollar.
Possibly the European Allies begin to per-
ceive that there can be a tyranny of the
dollar as well as a tyranny of the sword.
Certainly the dollar is carrying matters with
a high hand. At latest President Wilson
demands that the peace treaty, which is abso-
lutely necessary because the cost of partially-
suspended war is ruinous, shall not be signed
unless the League of Nations agreement
is included with it. The European Allies
are troubled about that League of Nations.
They are to rely on it greatly against fur-
ther Hun aggressiveness—-the kind that has
made their lives a hell for 50 years past by
reason of the race of armaments. Yet it
hasn’t been decided that the League is to
have an army with which to keep the peace,
or a navy, or a reliable form of government.
Wilson has told his own people that it
is to have no control over United States
armaments and is not to interfere with the
Monkoe Doctrine. At the same time the
United States, alone among big nations, has
authorised the construction of an almost
overwhelming war fleet. If all the arma-
ments are to be controlled and limited by the
League except those of the Power which
claims to have invented the League, it will
be a lopsided sort of League. Also the
President has assured his people that U.S.
blood will not be spilt in European brawls.
If European or other brawls arise, the blood
of every member of the League must be spill-
able unless the biggest and most imposing
member of the body is to be purely honorary.
By demanding that the League and the peace
should be accepted together Wilson allows
no time for a clearing-up of these glaring
anomalies. And already there are hints that
pressure is being brought to bear by the
dollar. The U.S. possesses that article. It
sfood out of the war for 32 months and five
days, making great money by supplying goods
to all parties. It lent money to both
Britain and France just as they lent money
to all the poorer combatants. But Britain
and France are not pressing for arrears; on
the other hand, a British Minister recently
stated that the attitude of the United States
is one of the great problems of British
finance, which is taken to imply that, unless
the Allies kow-tow to Wilson’s country, the
short loans may be called in or only re-
newed on disastrous terms. This suggests
that the League of Nations arrangement will
have to be accepted with all Wilson’s reser-
vations and uncertainties, else the dollar may
make trouble. Whether a country bosses
other nations by command of the military
situation or the money situation, it is boss
all the same.
Suspending Dooley’s Certificate.
Dear Bulletin, — I beg to submit —not for
the first time —that a politician or political
orator who tries to secure valuable con-
sideration by provably wrong statements
should be punishable, like any other con-
fidence man, by fine, imprisonment, or, better
still, disqualification as a speaker, voter and
member. Take the case of Dooley, deputy-
leader of N.S.W. Opposition. Dooley the
other day told the electors of Petersham
(candidate Olde told them also) that the sure
way to provide cheap food for all and work
for all is to put Labor in power. I don’t
suppose the Law could object to that. Any
man may promise Paradise above or Paradise
below and it can’t be proved that the offer
isn’t genuine. The most that could be done
would be for the Public Trustee to hold the
collection money, if any, in trust until the
goods (i.e., the Paradise) are delivered.
But Dooley is reported to have backed up
his case in this fashion:
The great problem of reducing the cost of living
must be faced and dealt with effectually. The Labor
party has done it in Queensland, and the Labor party
will do it here when it gets the opportunity.
The country’s authority on these matters is
Statistician Knibbs, whom Labor Govern-
ments had abundant chances to get rid
of if he wasn’t reliable. Taking the
average of the principal towns in each State
and lumping the prices of every important
article of food, Knibbs says that in July,
1014—the year before the Queensland Labor
Government took office —Queensland had the
cheapest food in the Commonwealth. The
food order that could be filled there for £4 10s.
2d. cost £5 17s. Bd. in Westralia, or £4 17s.
taking the Commonwealth as a whole. And
in January, 1919, with the same Labor Gov-
ernment in power, Queensland, according to
the same authority, had the dearest food.
The order for victuals mentioned above cost
£7 Bs. Bd. there as against the general Com-
monwealth average of £6 15s. 7d. To move
from the best place to the worst, when
Dooley says the movement was exactly the
other way, is a good reason why Dooley,
unless he has some unexpected defence to
put before the Court, should lose his certifi-
cate as a public speaker, voter and member,
the charge against him being wrongful navi-
gation of the ship of State and the giving of
false evidence in a public place.—Yours, etc.,
Henry Horsecollar.
The World-wide Freetrade Trust.
Australia requires a wonderful amount of
shipping, for its handful of people some-
times have to send as much as £85,000,000
worth of bulky raw material in a year to
Europe and other distant parts. This is
necessary to prevent the material being man-
ufactured here, either for local use or for
export in a condensed form so that it will
go in a tenth of the space. And Australia
imports nearly as much value to prevent
local industries arising to supply wage-earn-
ers, taxpayers, customers for farmers and
miners, and sharers of the public debt. The
Australian Government ships for foreign
trade consist of 19 vessels, good or bad or
middling, taken from the Huns, of which we
have the loan till the Peace Conference
claims them ; 12 small purchased ships that
were old when bought, and are now
still further out of date; and six ves-
sels run up for this country in the
U.S.A. These last half-dozen prove, so
far, to be the hopeless shoddy craft
that the U.S., or any other place, is liable
to build for a trusting fool who is at a
distance and up against a dire necessity
created by his refusal to work for himself.
Australian-built Government ships are nil as
yet. Privately-owned Australian ships for
foreign service are nil so far as is generally
known. Privately-owned ships (ships owned
that is, in Australasia for local service)_ are
not very many. The A.U.S.N. Co. is a
foreign affair, and the great Union S.S. Co.
has become foreign. Now the outside ship-
ping companies, including the A.U.S.N. and
the Union, have become practically one
gigantic trust which is likely to own
the free seas so far as we are concerned.
The fool or rogue Foreign-traders who were
allowed to run this deluded country so long
always taught the interested lie that Pro-
tection should be avoided because it and it
alone created Trusts. In proof they pointed
triumphantly to the huge Standard Oil com-
bine, built by dealing in an article which
wasn't protected in the Standard Oil coun-
try. The Shipping Trust was also born
of Freetrade, and its method is simple
and effective. It charges the shipper a
certain rate for goods to Australia or
some otter place. At the end of each six
months, if he shows that he has shipped no
goods whatsoever to any country —whether
Australia, Cochin-China, Iceland or Peru —
where the Trust’s ships go by any except
Trust boats, he gets a handsome rebate. If
he has sent even one package to such a coun-
try except by a Trust boat he is fined the
six months’ discount on his trade with all
the world. No half-dozen or dozen or two
dozen ramshackle steamers can compete
against that. Two things Australia can do.
In the first place, it may cut down the use
of ships by manufacturing everything possi-
ble here, which means High Protection, less
“go-slow” and a suppression of the 0.8. U.
policy of confiscating the workshops, for
people won’t start workshops only to have
them confiscated. The other thing is to
build enough ships, either Government
vessels or privately-owned ones, the sale or
mortgaging of which outside the country is
prohibited, to do all our own trade. Then it
would be feasible to enact that all goods
carried by vessels which grant freight dis-
counts or rebates on the Shipping Trust sys-
tem shall pay 10 p.c. or 20 p.c. extra duty.
In other words, the rebate would be confis-
cated at this end as an injurious discrimina-
tion against, or a malicious and underhand
boycott of, Australian non-Trust ships. But
ir is hard to see, that much can be done
unless this country possesses its own ships,
and that is a very big constructive job, quite
different from loose denunciation of ill-paid
local bakers over id. on the loaf or miscel-
laneous clatter about taking over a few local
factories. While Australia depends on out-
side ships it is pretty well owned by a com-
bine, which is as much beyond our reach as
the men who make our drapery, sewing-
cotton, telephones, general machinery, elec-
tric apparatus, paper printing-presses, wire-
netting, telegraph-wire,, cigars, crockery, type-
writers, cruets, sewing-machines, etc., etc.,
etc., etc., etc., etc., and more etceteras until
the list grows so long that the printer goes
on. strike. But in most of these things there
is competition among suppliers. The Ship-
ping Combine’s plan is to eliminate competi-
tion.
Our Pampered Scourge.
An odd controversy has been raging between
Dr. Arthur, M.L.A., and one “Lex.”
“Lex” found in London Times an article
boosting calomel ointment as a prophylactic
against syphilis. He deplored the fact that
its sale was forbidden in N. S. Wales. Inci-
dentally he questioned the usefulness of
clinics. Dr. Arthur defended the clinic
system and questioned the usefulness of
calomel. The dispute provides an example
of the myopic state of mind many persons
get into on the subject of venereal disease.
If there were thousands of public-houses
whose wares were liable to cause deadly dis-
ease, and if they were non-prohibitive, would
Dr. Arthur question and carp in the event
of a prophylactic being discovered which
provided a shield against so much as a frac-
tion of their capacity for harm? It is
certain that he would not. If, in the same
circumstances, clinics existed to treat the
victims of these places, would people like
“Lex” object to them on the score of their
cost? The thing is inconceivable. Both
of these correspondents agreed, probably, to
the prophylactic measures which were taken
against influenza, or if they disagreed it
would only have been because they doubted
the efficacy of those measures. "Both of
them, doubtless, believe in notification,
segregation and after-treatment—for influ-
enza. They would be horrified at the idea
of an infected person being permitted to
wander about the State communicating dis-
ease to all and sundry—if that disease were
influenza. But somehow they cannot or
will not apply the same line of reasoning to
a far more dreadful scourge. It is imprac-
ticable to prohibit prostitution; politicians
like Dr. Arthur admit it by their lack of
action on the question. The State controls
the sale of many things in the interest of
the general health, but the never-ending traf-
fic in human bodies remains outside its
ambit. The immemorial attitude in most
parts of Australia, as in so many British
communities,, is that the horror is not there
at aIL W hich is childish. Of course pro-
phylactics are of value in the fight. And
so are clinics. Notification is a wide step
on the road to the extermination of the dis-
ease. But registration of all prostitutes,
and their constant examination by medical
officers, is essential if the diseases which the
prostitute class does most to disseminate are
to be eradicated. The V.D. pandemic will
never be killed till it is attacked, not merely
from one or two angles, but from every side,
and vehemently at that.
The Solvent Basis.
It is interesting though discomforting to
consider how many industries in Australia
have never yet been on a commercial footing.
For the most part they divide themselves into
(1) jobs subsidised by the States out of
loans, land-sale money or otherwise, and (2)
jobs that consist in the using up of capital.
In the latter category are: —
Mining in all its varieties. This is necessarily a
using up of capital.
The sale of public lands when the money is used
as revenue instead of being employed in public works
so that there may be may be something to replace
what is gone.
The destruction of forests unless something serious
is done to replace tnem._ Nothing serious has been
done.
The industries in the subsidised category
make a formidable list. They include :
The building of all kinds of public works out of
loans. The rate of wages doesn’t depend on the
value of the works, but on the way the loan hoilds
out.
The management of public works after they are
constructed. The wages paid have no necessary con-
nection with the amount earned. Taxes on land-sale
money or paper money or loans fill the gap. Thus
last year all the seven railway systems failed to
make ends meet.
The running of Government offices. A new one is
established whenever some politician can invent it.
There is no criterion of value to fix the pay.
Municipal employment in which the remuneration
may be anything if the rates and the new municipal
loan are all right. Sometimes it is very poor ; some-
times not. At Townsville street-cleaning is paid for
at £5 ss. per week, though £6 is demanded.
Then there are industries, such as gas-
manufacture, tombstone-making, electric-
light supply, boot-repairing, compounding
doctors’ prescriptions, making clothes to
measure, and so on, which are necessarily
local, whatever the rates charged. So, one
way and another, the industries which have
to justify themselves by proving that the
value of their output is worth the cost are
few as yet. Agriculture ought to be one of
them, but it lives ou the fact that its output
is carried below cost.; and, after all, it
doesn’t really live at; present —it barely
exists. The few competitive manufactures
which prove, by their continuance, that the
output is worth the cost of putting it out
mostly work on a very small margin of pro-
fit. There is a great experience ahead when
the irreplaceable capital is sold or cut down
or dug up, especially if all the industries are
nationalised so that there will be no Private
Enterprise that can be taxed to make up the
loss on the present very losable variety of
State Enterprise. Somebody will have to
work a lot harder or go a lot hungrier in
those days.
Our Drooping Tail.
“Solomon Malaprop,” being inspired by
McPherson, writes: —
McPherson, which is a splendid name to add up
a column of figures with, is Treasurer of Victoria
and something of a financial authority. A few days
ago he estimated the total State and Federal debts
of the Commonwealth at £720,000,000, and thought
it probable that they would be £760,000,000 by the
end Of the year. As he is going to London to borrow
a few millions for the renewal of old debts which
have fallen due at a disastrous time, he ought to
know. Assuming that the States’ “permanent and
reproductive” loan works pay interest on
£200,000,000, that leaves £560,000,000 of debt
which is a dead load on the community. (The “per-
manent and reproductives” are supposed to pay
interest on something like £350,000,000, but they
don’t, and the amount that they do pay on wobbles
from year to year and month to month and day to
day. In fact, it wobbles hourly.) All this means
that Australia carries an unproductive burden of
£ll2 per inhabitant on an average. The McPher-
son of the British Cabinet has just made a new
estimate, setting down the debt of the United King-
dom at £8,000,000,000. Allowing for reproductive
assets and for loans to Allies which may be recov-
ered (the prospects of recovery vary from day to
day), the net amount may be £6,000,000,000 or
£6,500,000,000. In each case private and munici-
pal debts are left out, being hard to calculate. That
leaves the British person owing about £135 per
head. Britain doesn’t propose to borrow any more
when the war is cleared up, but to set to work at
paying off the liability, despite the fact that it has
a lot of damage, done by submarines and airships, to
make good, and despite the fact that it has no
unearned income from public lands to help it out.
Australia with a much smaller burden and with
nearly £3,700,000 a year land-revenue dropping in
to build new railways with, proposes to keep on bor-
rowing like Old Harry in order that it may invent
public works, no matter how hopeless, to save its
people from starving. Yet Australia could double
its population inside a few years, and so bring its
present net debt to £56 per inhabitant, simply by
shutting down to a great extent on the importing*
habit and creating industries of its own on which its
children and its immigrants could be employed. The
United Kingdom, in which England already has more
than one inhabitant to every acre, has no such pro-
spect; still J. Bull faces the situation as a matter
of course, and hasn’t begun to talk of repudiation.
Compared with the position of some of the Allies—
Britain, Belgium, Serbia, France, Montenegro and
Romnania- and some of the enemies, this thrice-
blessed land of ours should rather be a lender than
a borrower. What kind of a curse of imbecility, in-
capacity, cowardice, sloth, loafing, unmanliness, pes-
simism and self-pity has been brought down on this
country by the loan habit and the importing habit!
It escaped all material damage by the war.' It
didn’t even pay a penny of taxation for the actual
conduct of the war, but charged everything to pos-
terity. The war gave it the chance that comes once
in 1000 years to create profitable new industries. Of
all the white-man places on earth it is the one whose
tail ought to be pointing to the skies. And instead
its caudal appendage is dragging in the dust. Why
not reform right now?


vr
~ t
Na
iSs
mm
310
MS
m
■njhe Centre
CilY^J^-^lCoi
7®g
■'SW®
ns
<C6e
“GrfusiraJia"
Wfnter Garden
The Premier Hotel of Australia.
Renovated from Roof to Basement.
SYDNEY.
NEW FEATURES
Extension of Winter Gar-
den.
New Sixth Floor.
New Fireproof Flat Con-
crete Roof.
New Rooms with Private
B.ths.
New Furnishing's.
ATTRACTIVE SPECIALTIES
Comfort and Quietness. Every
Convenience and Quick Service.
Automatic Telephones in every
Room. Private Safe Deposit.
Stenographer and Private Office
for use of Guests.
Choice of Rating. Room and
Breakfast or Pull Board.
Meals—a la Carte or Table d'hSte.
Apply Manager. WHAT WE ADVERTISE WE SUPPLY.
Bolshevism in Brisbane.
Queensland is governed by a National
Parliament of two Houses, both elected by
adult men and women without any property
qualification whatever, and by a State Labor
Ministry. If there is one place in the
world where “direct action” or Bolshevism
or any other revolutionary methods are in-
excusable, that place, therefore, is Queens-
land. In no other part of the world does
the majority rule so absolutely. But be-
cause the majority does not rule ip the way
that a‘very small minority desires, the latter
has begun to show that it is prepared to use
force to impose its own cranky ideas upon
the majority. This is not democracy or
anything like it. It is attempted tyranny ;
and the democrat must insist upon its sup-
pression. The Russian who in his own
country sets up the red rag of revolution
opposes himself to a minority. The person
who does it in Queensland opposes himself
to the majority. And if the majority does
not, through its Government, set itself deter-
minedly to suppress every such movement,
then the rule of the majority goes under, and.
the tyranny of the few takes its place. It
makes no difference what sort of clothes the
few wear. The tyranny of a minority in
moleskins is no more to be tolerated than a
tyranny of the few in broadcloth. Yet
something can be said not to excuse the
would-be tyrant in moleskins but to palliate
his offence: mostly, being a foreigner, he
does not know what the democratic institu-
tions of this country are. To him Govern-
ments are the instruments of spoliation and
oppression. He does not realise that what
the revolutionists aim at in his own country
we already have the machinery to accom-
plish : the majority with us can do abso-
lutely what it pleases. This shows that
these foreigners are in the wrong place.
Their outbreak does not call for punishment
by imprisonment. It calls for deportation.
Yanko.
About a desert that has flowered :—
It is an exotic. It is like a vast section of Egypt
dropped down in the middle of Australia free of
natives and smells. In and out among the orchards
and dairy farms around Leeton runs the water that
has come down from Burrinjuck; also beside and
under the roads, which, in Leeton and environs, are
as broad as the Corso in Manly; and because of it
thousands of palms and shade trees flourish. They
blaze in the gardens and they divide and ornament
the roads outside. Where the water is not the coun-
try is a yellow, thirsty desert. Wherever it is the
land is a dazzling green bursting to produce peaches,
oranges, roses, almonds, sorghum, cabbages, potatoes,
tobacco—all come alike to this astonishing soil. One
sees orchards that have been in existence only five or
six years. Their owners started without even the
asset of experience. The State helped them with
sustenance money and advice. To-day they are
“made” men. They owe nothing, are comfortably,
not to say luxuriously, housed, and their places are
showing profits, in some cases, of from £700 to
£1000 a year.
Sixty .years ago Samuel McCauohey trekked to
what is now Leeton by bullock-waggon. To-day it is
attainable from Sydney in 17 hours. The settler
can have electric-light, the telephone, ice, every sort
of food, and unlimited water. And the water is not
the polluted stuff that Australian soldiers saw and
shuddered at in the irrigation channels of Egypt: it
is pure enough to drink.
The farms round Leeton represent the finished
article. Fifty miles away, at Griffith, is another
area which has been reserved for the repatriation of
soldiers. Much of the soil is the pick of the district.
The town site is laid out. All the State asks is that
the men shall come and get busy. There are experts
available to show them how to work their places.
There is money to keep them going till the dividends
start to come in. There are canning factories, butter
factories and bacon-curing factories to absorb their
products.
“Where,” the cynic will ask, “is the catch in the
proposition ? It sounds too good to bo true.” Of
course, the element of risk is there. Grapes grow
prodigiously, but they have been attacked* by dis-
ease. A loaded orchard of peaches almost ready for
market was knocked to pieces by a hailstorm the
other day. But there is always the sun, there is
always the water, and there is always the soil. If to
these three a man is willing to add work, nothing
can beat him in the long run.
“William. Wardroom” : I hope I dislike
snobbery as much as I ought; and yet I
agree in part with the Navy’s policy of being
chary about promoting lower-deck ratings to
commissioned rank. In the first place, it
doesn’t amount to breach of faith, because
new entries are expressly warned that such
promotion is a rare occurrence, only to be
looked for by those who show great and
rare promise. In the second place, the
wardroom executive officer has had a highly-
technieal training, not merely in the practice
but also in the theory of his job, from early
boyhood ; and there is usually between him
and the ambitious lower-deck man just the
difference which exists between the highly-
qualified engineer and the mechanic. In the
case of the engineering branch the position is
perhaps not quite similar, in that it is pos-
sible to learn the job outside the service;
but if a highly-competeut engineer enters the
Navy on the lower deck instead of applying
in the first instance for a commission, he
does it at his own risk. It is hard, though,
to conceive of a sane man doing so at the
pay offered. I cordially agree with The
Bulletin’s comments about “Beach sailors”
—those hardy shellbacks of Lonsdale-street
who stay ashore and keep a bright lookout
for soft jobs. Many such are held by people
whose sea-time has been put in, mainly in
the JLTotector, on sunny Saturday afternoons,
or have drifted here from the R.N.
because the Admiralty looked with a cold
eye upon their mediocrity and passed them
out as soon as it decently could.
“Henry IIorsecollar” on postal matters: —
An impassioned explanation lately appeared from
Postmisser-General Webster that he had really
beep keeping an intelligent and strenuous eye on
aerial navigation problems ever since he took office,
which is over three years ago. At that time, he
points out, aerial navigation was still rather primi-
tive, and he couldn’t be expected to rush in ahead
of everybody else. This is true but irrelevant. The
public isn’t worrying about a few years or a few
centuries ago. Why people were impressed with
the utter futility of the Postmasquerader-General
was that he declared within the last few months that
the cost of carrying letters by air was prohibitive
and impossible, which is already proved untrue; and
that Australia, by reason of its immense distances,
was specially unsuited for air travel. A great part
of Australia being the kind of place where it is
liable to be 100 miles between towns because of the
lack of water between-, most people thought that it
was specially suited for the kind of vehicle which
doesn’t require to waste 100 miles of costly rails
and roadbed for every pair of settlements. Where
towns are two miles apart a vehicle which has to
make a big rise and a careful descent every time
may be of little value as far as wayside traffic is
concerned, just as a train or a carrier-pigeon is of
little value for carrying a message next door. But
for the sort of long-jump work that is done in a
land of great and permanent distances it seems ideal.
The fact that Webster couldn’t think of this made
the community believe that he can’t think of any-
thing, though he may inefficiently imitate something
very much behind time. Other Ministers might be
as dull as the Postmisfortune-General, but he rushed
into print to explain his utter inability to see the
obvious. Now it seems that he has a Board of some
sort watching developments. Any cat can watch a
mouse-hole for a development. Australia has need of
a man who can do things, and do them in good time,
even if he doesn’t write to the papers about them.
A Postmortem-General who holds inquests on defunct
happenings has no value at all.
\
Dear Bulletin, — I am one of the Home
Service hermit-crabs of the A.A.M.C. (cap-
tain, no less). This morning I put a parade
of about a hundred chaps in a convalescent
hospital through V.D. inspection. There
was not one case of infection, although we
give these boys daily and in many cases
nightly leave. The general inspection is
made once a week and taken in good part,
though I fancy they must hate it, as it is
of the most intimate character and made en
masse. Now, if you must have Rahabs,
whom these boys seem to do very well with-
out, despite Miss Ettie Rout’s views to the
contrary, why not make every civilian who
visits one register his name 'in a book and
subject him to a weekly V.E. inspection ?
—Yours, Dr. Nil.
“Returned Citizen” comes back :—•
“One Who Ought to Know” (B. 20/3/’l9) admits
th» truth of my statement that the returned Digger
who does not join the Australian Army Reserve is
liable for the same military service as the Digger
who joins; he denies my contention that the forma-
tion of this reserve adds nothing worth while to
Australia’s fighting strength; and he ignores the
charge that the existence of this “paper” reserve will
give an excuse for the creation of staff jobs, and be
a consequent expense to Australia. Does “One Who,”
etc., really think that an annual four days’ optional
attendance in camp will make the slightest difference
in the soldierly value of a man who “has been
trained in the only school that makes a soldier” ?
(The quotation is from his own words.) If so, then
“One Who Knows” doesn’t know, even though he
ought to. He thinks the Military Reserve scheme
is amply justified if it does no more than bring the
men who have helped to save Australia together
once a year at no expense to themselves to renew
old friendships.” The Commonwealth had better
look well after the matter of meeting its already-
incurred liabilities, and not go into the business of
arranging free picnics for citizens, however worthy.
The Returned Soldiers’ League can attend to that.
A Military Reserve must justify its existence other-
wise. Does the Defence Department intend to keep
all the A.I.F. units alive on paper, so that when
the next war arrives the veterans can report to their
old battalions, batteries or other units? If
so, Australia will have a big bill to meet. The
rejoining of old units will be unworkable, anyway,
for men wander in this Australia of ours, and that
day in the future when the guns begin to shoot will
find the Diggers scattered far and wide. They will
not ask, “Where is my unit?” but will hop in with
the nearest mob; for this war has done much towards
Australianising Australians, and Australians are
Diggers all, whatever their State. The creation of
staff jobs for the Reserve has not been touched on by
“One Who,” etc. He is wise. But be very sure it
will riot be overlooked. And Australia will pay.
Sydney City Council has resolved on a
kindly act —to shove up municipal employees’
wages by 10s. a week. The only drawback
is that this sort of thing tends to set up a
standard of wages to which the manufac-
turer is expected to conform. The results
of his labors have to be sold in competition
with imported goods, while the white muni-
cipal street-sweeper hasn’t to compete for
the job with a Chinaman or the garbage-
remover with a Jap. Very often the manu-
facturer can’t conform. He can only close
. up after being called a sweater.
According to the cable, “General Seely, in
moving the air vote of £45,000,000 in the
House of Commons, said Britain was more
advanced in civil aviation than any other
country. It was proposed to concentrate
the first effort on carrying the mails to
Egypt.” It sounds very matter of fact,
especially the £45,000,000. When the air
vote is moved as casually as if it was an
adjournment, things look more than experi-
mental. Also it makes the value of a lot
of “permanent and reproductive works” look
very shaky, and clamors at the top of its
voice for a sinking-fund to be attached to
every loan.
Another “Nemo’s” observation : —•
In considering the hygienic value of dry wines and
sweet wines also, the following figures from the
“Commonwealth Year Book” might well be taken
into account. For the year 1912 —well before the
war—the death-rate of the Commonwealth was 10.8
and of Maoriland 9.5, and neither of these made
much use of either dry or sweet wine. The death-
rate of the two nations among whom dry wine is the
national beverage was: France, 17.5; Italy, 18.2.
In Spain, which uses both dry and sweet wine, the
death-rate was 21.8. Hence if Australians followed
the example of France and Italy they would in-
crease their death-rate enormously; and also the
number of their sick days, because sickness is in
proportion to death-raie.
And Japan, which drinks no wine at ali,
ought to have a better death-rate even than
Maoriland; but actually it has a worse one
than either Italy or France. A rule which
proves only what you want it to prove has
this paper’s disrespect.
Queensland has always been notable for
its Hun population. At the census of 1881
nearly 4 tier cent, of the people were born
in Germany, and the number born locally
of German parents was much greater. It
has been increasing since ithen. for the
Hun is a prolific creature. The big meat-
preserving works on the Brisbane River used
to be known as “the German meat-works,”
because all the unskilled labor, including
the overseer, was Hun and no non-Hun
need apply. So it is not surprising that a
report is abroad about Huns being appointed
to Government billets in a generous fashion.
In reply to questions Home Secretary Hux-
ham “would afford no definite information.”
Minister Hunter said he “wasn’t aware.”
Minister Theodore said he was “asking for
a report.” Later Minister Theodore said
that ‘he had no statement to make.” Latest
of all Minister Hunter said “he had no-
thing to add” to what he said before, which
was that he didn’t know. The amount of
“dunno” is astonishing.
Thompson’s, of Castlemaine (Vic.), is
another engineering firm to which the war
gave an opportunity to show what it could
do. Prior to 1914, owing to lack of tariff
protection, the local foundries could not
stand up against the competition of British
and American firms and Krupps in the
manufacture of railway and tramway wheel-
tyres. And, with rare exceptions, State
Governments and municipalities did not con-
sider Australian industry worth encourag-
ing if it cost them something to do it. On
the outbreak of war overseas foundries were
immediately converted into munition-works,
and further supplies of tyres were unobtain-
able. For a while it looked as though a
lot of rolling-stock would have to be shunted
into the repair-shop until the war-clouds
rolled by. The enterprise of the Thompson
people, however, went a long way to save the
situation. The Broken Hill Prop. (New-
castle) and Hoskins’s (Lithgow) kept the
engineering cos. going. A supply of high-
grade steel being available for tyre manu-
facture, Thompson’s constructed in their
own works the necessary machinery, and
very soon the co. was turning out tyres at
least equal in quality to the best previously
imported. Orders flowed in from practi-
cally all the States, Maoriland, the Fede-
rated Malay States and Java. Naturally
the locally-manufactured tyre, with steel at
present high prices and with higher wages
than in other countries, cannot compete with
the imported .article which comes in duty-
free. So, since the armistice, there have
already been signs that the tramway and
railway authorities will again send good
Australian money out of the country to feed
Capital in low-wage countries.
“Dr. N.”: “0.L.” (B. 13/3/T9) asks
about the Diggers’ “Got a gasper?” Yes, he
is a bit in arrears. Much later is either
“Gorra puffalice?” or “Stinker wanted!”
Like the Broken Hill miners at every crisis
the Cobar men have decided to stop paying
rent now that the big mine is closed. War
moratoriums and plague moratoriums also
stop rent, and rents have left off on some of
the Queensland copper and tin fields. It is
hard to see how it can be helped, but it is
one of the reasons why the old style of land-
lord is w4llinv to let the State take a turn
at house-owning.
A Melbourne dairyman has cheerfully told
a Bench how he drives his milk-waggon
through the Factories Act. lie employed a
man to cart his supplies from the railway-
station to the dairy, paying him £3 Is. pea-
week. But the Act stipulates that such
employees must have one day off a week,
and as this would upset arrangements the
boss made a contract with the driver’s wife
to do the work for £l5B 13s. a year, and she
employed her husband at the same old £3 Is.
The Bench decided in favor of the dairy-
man, so the Department will now have to
sue the wife. But that will still leave the
dairyman outside the Act.
John Ilooton, general manager of the
Farmers’ Co-operative Wholesale Federa-
tion of Maoriland, is in Australia, preach-
ing the gospel that has brought salvation to
thousands of farmers in the Ilicketty
Islands. So far as the Maoriland cocky is
concerned he can now be his own middle-
man from January to December. The 14
co-op. societies connected with the Federa-
tion had a 12 months’ turnover of just on
14 millions sterling ; and the saving of com-
missions on that lot don’t half tell the tale;
there are, for instance, savings on railway
freights, supplies being carried in bulk, and
the co-operators have in view the allocation
of three millions to purchase freighters.
The Soviet which is running things at
Darwin has put in another emphatic demand
that the price of beer be reduced at the
Government pubs. The central Government,
several thousand miles away, has wired
back that it can’t sell beer for any less ex-
cept at a loss. This concentration of
thought on beer is unexpected. If no agree-
ment can be reached the Soviet may depose
George V. so far as the Territory is con-
cerned, and he may remain deposed for
some weeks before a steamer arrives to put
him on his throne again. The temporary
loss by George of 523,620 square miles of
territory would make the event the fourth
biggest deposition of this busy century—
Russia I: China II; Germany III; North-
ern Territory IV'. Austria also ran.
Richard Teece, retired general manager
of the A.M.P., has met one of the absurdities
of the Commonwealth income-tax law.
While he was in his big job with the A.M.P.
he had some premises which, not being let,
required a caretaker. Teece applied to
deduct the exes, from his taxable income.
If a man carries on two businesses the law
plainly allows him to deduct the sum of the
losses from the sum of the profits. If Teece
had invested his money in an agency to
import tintaeks and had made a loss he
could, for income-tax purposes, deduct that
loss from the profits of his business as an
actuary, provided he carried on this business
on his own account. But when the A.M.P.
purchased all his services as an actuary,
then he didn’t carry on business, the Court
ruled; and because he invested his money
in house property instead of a tintack im-
portery, that wasn’t a business either.
Besides being quite asinine, this isn’t going
to encourage house-building to any extent.
The Malvern (Vic.) Tramway strike
leaders —the strikers ceased toil allegedly in
order to force their employers to sack an
objectionable instructor—considered that
they had got the ' business of striking
down to an exact science. There was no
fuss, speechifying or rallying of forces;
they just rested from toil, picketed the
tramsheds and filled in the time with
music and movies. But really they have a
lot to learn. Some day, unless we can
meantime get more sense, a real strike
leader will happen. He will prepare months
before hand, and when the psychological
moment occurs his followers will knock off
their regular toil and get busy at some
other work already provided for—building
a house, potato digging or planting, putting
in a few acres of cabbages or anything
that will bring in money. They may reap
no fortune, but at least they will make a
living, whereas the employers mostly won’t.
And as they can continue striking almost
indefinitely they will have more than a
sporting chance of gaining their end. As
it is, with only meagre strike-pay coming
in, and then only temporarily, pictures
speedily pall and music wearies. Even the
French horn fails to bring joy to an empty
stomach.


WHY NOT CONSULT
THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE
(STATE GUARANTEE), WHO ACTS AS
EXECUTOR, TRUSTEE, ADMINISTRATOR, ATTORNEY and AGENT.
Expert, Efficient and Economical Management.
Write or call for full particulars, CULWULLA CHAMBERS, 67 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
T. W. GARRETT, Public Trustee.
w
gOOR® &
L OHDON. ENGLAND
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
Swift & Company Ltd., Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney"]
DT
Insure with AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
Head Office: Corner Pitt
&. King Streets, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: 50 Queen Street, Melbourne. 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
FIRE & ACCIDENT INSURANCES EFFECTED.
PROMPT SETTLEMENTS. EQUITABLE DEALING.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
A “Warrigal” Sweater
—Warmth for Easter and Winter*
Take-a “Warrigal” Coat Sweater with you wherever
you go—mountains, seaside or bush. It ensures
warmth, comfort, convenience—slips on and off
like a coat; buttons up snug to the neck ; has two
spacious pockets outside to shelter the hands in cold
weather. The Peapes registered “Warrigal” label
is sewn into every sweater—a mark of quality.
White, Brown, Grey or Navy.
Men’s. Outsize. Ex. O.S.
19/6 21/- 22/6
With vest opening at neck, 1/- less.
Peapes’ pay postage.
Please state chest measurement.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
Men's Outfitters,
309 and 3 U GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING AVEEIv.
Heb Majesty’s -.•••• , ,
Criterion “Nothing but the Xrutn
Royal “Tom Moore
Tivou “My Lady t ray le
H OYT ’ s Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Goody Two Show
Royal “The Great Divide
King’s <<r Tlie Eyes of Youth
Princess’s “ La
Tivoli , **The Better Ole
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Paramount •• • Metro If thus
A further revival of “Cavalleria” at Mel-
bourne Princess’s on Saturday gave manager
Rigo a chance to sool another Alfio (Tom
Minogue) on to the practised home-wrecker,
Turiddu. Minogue hardly suggested an
enraged Alfio with an almost unmanageable
desire for slaughter, but the way he cracked
his little whip showed that the man who
embezzled his particular female would be
reprimanded pretty severely. As a matter
of fact, Minogue’s homicidal fury, finding
an outlet in his voice, left him without petrol
for explosive action, but he was a bigger
protest than the previous interpreter (Filip-
pini) against enrolling Alfio in the Curates
Union. Minogue heightened the clash of
tongues by warbling in English to the Aus-
tralian Santuzza, Leah Myers, who hid the
details of her grief behind clouds of Italian,
while a second Lola (Thelma Carter) swap-
ped English endearments for Dago confec-
tionery from the lips of Turiddu (Vittorio
Lois). The use of the two languages was
hardly noticeable when all were warbling
together, but in the bits of dialogue between
the main characters the effect was ludicrous.
“Pagliacci,” which followed, was the usual
bewildering tempest of rage and jealousy,
with Filippini, as a new Tonio, bobbing in-
effectually in the middle. Next Saturday
the long-expected “Bolieme” will make an
unusual demand on Rigo’s vocal resources.
At Melbourne Royal Muriel Starr is still
sitting on the roof of the Cordilleras weaving
Injun blankets for her bread and butter. A
worried dramatist chose this means of
obtaining sustenance for a proud, pewer
heroine who refuses to touch her husband’s
dollars, and the appearance of Muriel over
the blanket-frame adds tremendously to the
atmosphere of the drama. Not that “The
Great Divide” is wanting in local color,
however: the dialogue teems with terms like
canon, arroyo, mesa, and so forth. In fact,
the only notable absentees are caballero and
coyote, and the Firm ought to rectify the
omission if it desires the maximum of real-
istic effect.
The mental acumen and resource of
Thomas Atkins are receiving all the adver-
tisement that Bairnsfather can give them in
“The Better ’Ole” at Melbourne Tivoli.
For instance, old Bill sneaks a secret plan
from a lurid German spy; but, far from
handing over the document to his superiors,
William acts alone on the information, saves
a French brigade from sudden massacre, and
is subsequently pinned to a Legion of Honor.
Many people are correct in assuming from
“Jack and Jill”
Panto., at Melbourne
King’s.
Joe Brennan (the re-
gent) says: “I’ve got
a c-old.”
this episode that
William’s other
name is Adams,
but for the pur-
pose of the play
he is camouflaged
as Busb y. It
should be ex-
plained that there
are so many Bill
Adamses in the
Bairnsfather army
that these noms de
guerre have be-
come necessary to
save worry and
confusion.
* * *
Something fresh
is heading for Mel-
bourne Majesty’s,
but it isn’t near
enough yet to re-
veal its name or
condition. Mean-
while Goody Two
Shoes is preparing
t o visit Sydney
and proposes to
disguise herself as
Norton Griffiths in
order to make sure
of a welcome from
N.S.W. Ministers,
who might otherwise object to her because
she comes from Melbourne.
Jack and Jill back out at Melbourne
King’s to-morrow night. On Saturday the
Taits open “The Eyes of Youth,” described
as a “dramatic novelty” which is alleged to
reveal the future-piercing gaze of Emilie
Polini.
* * * *
Hoyt’s Melbourne supporters are weeping
like street hydrants over a film called “Miss-
ing,” recently adapted from a Humphrey
Ward story. The yarn gets into khaki very
early and generally pursues the fixed design
of keeping the waterworks running freely.
Close un in the chief part is Australian
Sylvia Bremer, whilst our old friends Winter
Hall and Ola Humphrey are also noticed in
good positions. Elsie Ferguson in “The
Doll’s House” is not exactly a “discovery” in
the Ibsen toyshop, but she encourages the
suspicion that the Norwegian should be seen
and not heard. At the Majestic “The Acci-
dental Honeymoon” brings Captain Robert
Warwick and Elaine Ilammerstein into un-
easy proximity, which subsequently proves
fatal to their independence. Peggy Hyland
is at the same theatre. The Town Hall pro-
gramme displays the nobility of Sessue
Hayawaka in “The Temple of Dusk,” along
with the Metro star, Viola Dana, in “Oppor-
tunity.” In this quaint comedy film Viola
impersonates a pug, and a left like a dose of
laudanum is a feature of her armament.
“HELLO EVERYBODY!” AT SYDNEY
HER MAJESTY’S.
Minnie Love singing of Arizona, and George
Welch longing to be arrested.
With the memory of the Tschaikowsky
Symphony of Thursday’s classic concert still
a living thing, as much of Sydney as could
pour itself into the Conservatorium Hall on
Saturday lifted a rapturous ear once more
to Henri Verbrugghen’s orchestra. The
opening Weber’s “Freischutz,” with its sug-
gestion of wind in tree-tops, bffiw refresh-
ingly over an audience somewhat wilted by
the evening’s heat; but the gem of the even-
ing was the “Peer Gvnt” suite. The Grieg
music was so wonderfully performed that it
held all the charm of an old/friend in a new
and alluring guise. The little Master found
he had to break his rule against encores, and
the “Dance in the Hall of the Mountain
Kings” was repeated to a breathless audi-
ence. The big work in the second part of
the programme was the Beethoven Overture,
“Leonora No. 3.” Mrs. Goossens-Viceroy
sang and won great applause ; and the final
overture “Zampa” left the audience in a
dashing, devil-may-care mood that mocked
the mere missing of tram or ferry.
The curtain at Sydney Majesty’s falls on
“Hello, Everybody!” after the Friday night
show. The Royal C.omics (from the Cri-
terion) open in “Maytime” at the big
theatre on Saturday.
* * * *
Allen Doone and Edna Keeley again win
all hearts by their impersonation of the
Irish national poet and Bessie Dyke, his
love. “Tom Moore” till further notice at
Sydney Royal.
“My Lady Frayle” keeps the drawing-
room Devil boiling at the Tivoli (Sydney).
Apparently the Devil has to keep as many
disguises as the hero of a detective story.
What would happen to the Marie Corellian
Lady Frayle if the Pit sent up Norman
Lindsay’s draught-horse fiend to stamp on
the fine old English footmen and kick the
family silver into the next county?
“Bubbly” has almost finished effervescing
at the Palace (Sydney), and the theatrical
waiter will presently be gathering up the
corks. The “Jack and Jill” panto, is due
on Saturday, April 5.
Hs * * *
“Babes in the Wood” still keep Sydney
Opera House full and Fuller.
Sydney Lyceum has an immense draw in
Captain Fra n k
Hurley’s pictures
of “The Australians
in Palestine,” They
are all there:
Light II ors e,
Camel Corps,
aerial squadrons,
with the Bible-
hi story towns for
background. The
same theatre is
showing the “Acci-
dental Honey-
moon,” in which a
jilted artist and a
girl who has been
threatened with
the awful fate of a
fat husband con-
sole each other,
and in doing so
are forced by per-
fectly innocent cir-
cumstances to
"Bubbly” at Sydney
Palace.
The Jew of Charles
Albert.
spend the night in
the one room. They decide to make a
habit of it.
* * * =!-
At the Crystal Palace and the Strand
Mildred Harris (Mrs. Charlie Chaplin), a
downtrodden shop-girl by day, is shown hav-
ing a good time by night. But as the
sources of amusement dry up on the seventh
night, the girl has to be got out of the way,
so she is run over by the motor-car of her
young escort and dies in a nice, clean hos-
pital-bed. “The Price of a Good Time is
the way it is billed. The Haymarket tells
how Dorothy Dalton goes to Reno for six
months to get a divorce for the other woman,
and there falls in love with the other
woman’s husband. This “Mating of Mar-
cella” has plenty of fine clothes to recom-
mend it. Bessie Barriscale at the Globe
and Lyric foregoes a revenge for the sake of
a doctor and some little children.
Sydney James, unable to get to Perth, re-
opened in Adelaide, indoors. The Majestic
stage allows of the elaboration of the co.’s
sketches; and to help in these Roy Red-
grave has joined the show. Colder nights
have put an end to the Scarlet Gaieties at
Austral Gardens. At the Royal “Damaged
Goods” is shown on the film. Though the
drama itself was poorly attended, the picture
is rushed —partly perhaps because of the
bold advt. that children are not admitted.
West’s have the most attractive film for gen-
eral consumption, the surrender of the Ger-
man Fleet. Thousands of school children
have viewed this at matinees arranged by
the Minister of Education.
A corporal of the 9th Battalion, the best
physical specimen that could be found, nas
been chosen to pose for the sculptor who has
been commissioned by Amiens to commemo-
rate the saving of that fine French city by
the Australians.
The position of the Labor party at next
election will be that it allows its papers to
preach Bolshevism, confiscation and general
upheaval, while the candidates on the plat-
form earnestly repudiate these things _ and
declare them abhorrent. If thg party is so
helpless that it can’t control its own organs,
then it is a poor concern to control the
Treasury.
“Can’t get trucks” is now by far the most
frequently-heard complaint from those who
use the Vic. railways, exceeding in volume
even the groans of the overcrowded suburban
passenger who has to travel in the hatrack.
The time seems uproariously ripe for the
Railways Department to look the shortage
in the face. The men who want the trucks
are the men who will have to do most in pay-
ing this country’s war-debts ; yet the depart-
mental heads seem to think the problem can
be solved by shoving the blame for delays on
one another’s shoulders and squabbling like
12 cats over one chop-bone.
The Australian Ass. of British Manu-
facturers reports an increasing tendency
on the part of importers to obliterate the
marks on containers of foreign goods and
substitute a distinctive Australian mark,
and characterises this as a menace to Austra-
lian as well as British industry. It is also
illegal; but a Government which so studies
the importer that it hesitates to give
tariff assistance to Australian industries
will hardly harass the poor man by a pros-
ecution. Yet the fact that even the im-
porter recognises the public demand for
Australian-made goods is a hopeful sign.
Victoria was the birthplace of three pre-
sent Anglican bishops in Australia. Two
Sydney-born Australians became bishops
outside their native country. One was
Parry, born at Sydney Government House
in 1830. He was Bishop of Dover and
refused the Bishopric of Sydney in 1882.
The other, Acton Windeyer Sillitoe, born
at Sydney in 1840, wore the gaiters out
British Columbia way.
The Fountain of Honor in England
capped all its achievements the other day
by awarding the D.S.O. to a disembarka-
tion officer for his gallantry in “meeting
transports in all weathers.”
Appeal in the Argus : —•
Wanted, Lessons in Dissection of Shark. Apply,
stating terms, to D., P.O.
Another candidate for a seat in the Full
Court, evidently.
The Vic. Government is doing a bit to help
Australian industry, by giving a contract for
the supply of 200 tons of wire to P. Young,
of South Melbourne. Young is getting his
rods, etc., from the B. H. Prop.’s Newcastle
works, and the wire is to be used in
making netting by .State guests at Pent-
ridge. But under the existing tariff, wire
is “free,” while rods —the raw material —are
subject to a duty of 5 per cent. As long
as Watt fails to alter that iniquitous policy
he cannot complain if he is accused of trying
to strangle Australian industries.
In favor of the plan of compelling every
prostitute to register herself and submit to
periodical examination, a remarkable state-
ment is made by Miss Ettie Rout in a cir-
cular letter addressed to Anzacs on reaching
Paris:
At the Pepiniere barracks not one single case of
V.D. has ever been reported from a licensed house in
the city of Paris.
Unfortunately, though, there are thousands
of “Boulevard girls” who are not registered ;
and that is the other side of Miss Rout’s
picture.
Africa used to be the Dark Continent,
allegedly for lack of imported missionaries.
Australia may yet be the Dark Continent
for lack of imported machinery. There are
new flats in Sydney suburbs where tenants
are glimmering along with candles and kero-
sene, and it is said that it will take two
years to make good the scarcity of imported
lighting apparatus. Of course the idea of
making the stuff is absurd. Things like
that aren’t done in Australia.
General Lee didn’t wait till he became N.
S. Wales State,Commandant to acquire a
habit of blunt speech. When he was a lot
younger he explained to an officers’ school
that the system demonstrated on the black-
board was in accordance with the opinion
of high military experts. Then he added
with, a jerk: “Personally I regard it as”
-—-but perhaps the story had better stop
there.
“Peterkin”: The moribund Royal Acad-
emy has kicked off a few of its barnacles at
last, and the younger men are jubilant. The
innovation provides for the automatic retire-
ment of all members at the age of 75, which
will create at least a dozen vacancies imme-
diately among the Academicians, and the
promotion of a corresponding number of
Associates, whose places in turn will be
filled from the ranks of the outsiders. This
is a promising reform, as is also the appoint-
ment of Sir Aston Webb to the presidency.
Besides being the foremost architect in
England, Webb possesses a resource and
business capacity not common among his
class.
“Hawk” : The loud promise that after-war
conditions would revolutionise labor to
greater efficiency calls for prompt considera-
tion. We can only return to old prices and
maintain present wages—and so make the
high wages efficient —by cutting out labor
waste. For example. Establish the decimal
system of coinage. Only fresh coppers re-
quired—ten cents to the penny, ten pennies
to the shilling, ten shillings to the half-
sovereign, the denominator for all money
calculations. Only one line of entry for cash
account; no money-tables to learn or remem-
ber. Our weights and measures are too
varied and absurd for improvement; the
French system, already used by the scientist,
chemist and surveyor, might be adopted. The
price of bread is increased a half-penny a
loaf by the cost of delivery. Half a dozen
opposing carts go to the same street ; milk,
meat, fish, all food, is in the same case.
Arranged, each food supplier might have a
monopoly—as the newspaper vendors have
already—of all the residents near to him,
on terms of sale to be fixed. Result, a vast
saving of cartage and horses, of vehicle and
road repair; better service at lower prices;
labor now wasted made productive. New
factories and industries should be located
with consideration for the economic housing
of the workers. This will locate them in
country centres where land is cheap. The
employed could then live near and walk to
their work, not be robbed of time and cash by
-useless tram, rail or boat rides. Anyone can
continue this list of economic opportunities
that so stare us in the face that we fail to
notice them,


WASHINGTON’S NEW-FOUND BROTHER.
"Japan pointed to the Constiution of the United States , which affirms that men are born equal, and claimed that this should be affirmed also
in the Constitution of the League of NotionsConstitution of the League of Notions President Wilson was embarrassed by the claim; but eventually Japan undertook to join the League, reserv-
ing the right to raise the race question subsequently.” —Paris news. ,


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd
Registered
<BHAS>
Brand.
Producers of Lead in the following forms _ , ,
Refined Lead, Corroding Lead, Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated;,
Super-refined Lead, Chemical Lead.
Also of —
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated), Spelter,
and the following Alloys and Metallic Products
Antimonial Lead, Linotype Metal, Litharge (Industrial and Assay),
Bearing Metals, Leaded Zinc Pigments, Blue Powder.
Purchasers on a Specially Favorable Tariff of Silicious Silver-Lead Ores, Slags, etc.,
containing Silver and Lead, Lead Drosses, Zinc Drosses.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS STREET, MELBOCKNE —
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
LONDON OFFICE: PINNERS HALL. AUSTIN FRIARS, E.C. 2
A. .1. SMTTH. London Secretary.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY—
R. N. KIRK (Agent).
ADELAIDE OFFICE: 62 BROOKMAN'S BUILDING, ADELAIDE—
A. W. LEWIS (Agent).
SMELTING WORKS. PORT PIRIE, S.A.
COKE WORKS. BELLAMBI. N.S.W.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
FOR 32 YEARS
PERPETUAL Trustee Company (Ltd.)
has been in business as a Corporate Trustee.
Since its incorporation it has never been held liable by the Courts
for a breach of Trust of any description.
The Company acts as Executor and Trustee under Wills, Adminis-
trator in Intestacy, Attorney Under Power, Agent, etc., etc.
WRITE FOR EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (Ltd.). 33-39~Hunter Street, Sydney.
Manager: R, COPLAND LETHBRIDGE.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The City Mutual Life Assurance
Society (Sydney) : ,
Added to
Written Assurance
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. Off. Fund.
1906. . £76,874 £31,956 £18,666 £2006 £24,24*
1907.. 82,388 33,001 18,875 2055 28,457
1908.. 93,442 29,894 24,162 562 38,824
1909.. 106,689 34,512 27,078 5805 39,294
1910.. 121,588 39,352 28,961 7388 45,887
1911. .*150,250 +73,844 27,774 6087 42,545
1912. .*166,049 +01,070 30,482 7005 67,492
1913. .*184,834 +75,991 30,708 6862 71,273
1914. .*207,565 +83,967 33,521 8863 81,214
1915. .*230,727 +107,188 33,740 9029 80,770
1916. .*253,963 +lOB,Bll 36,145 3000 106,007
1917. .*282,008 +142,900 41,105 2271 95,732
1918. .*339,743 +149,279 51,456 581 138,427
♦This includes “premiums purchasing paid-up policies
allocated from cash bonuses not drawn.”
fThis includes “cash bonuses”—£l7,22l for
£19,512 for 1912, £22,770 for 1913, £28,317 for
1914, £33,687 for 1915. £38,472 for 1916,
£44,167 for 1917, and £51,126 for 1918.
The City Mutual celebrates its fortieth birth-
day by showing a record growth of business
and by coming through the past year’s war
troubles with a proportionately greater sur-
plus than in 1914. During 1917 3903 new
policies were written, assuring £1,0(55,852
and producing an annua-l income of £38,160;
last year 4927 new policies were accepted,
assuring £1,437,275 and bringing in £55,109
of new income. But some of this new business
was of an exceptional character. During
the black patch a year ago, when everything
seemed to be going against the Allies and
when local recruiting had fallen quite flat,
an effort was made to coax more men into
khaki by means of an insurance scheme. A
fund had been publicly subscribed to buy
soldier-policies, but the terms suggested by
the promoters were not such as to enthuse
insurance-managers—the risk seemed great
and the premium offered comparatively small.
Altogether 5000 policies were psked for, but
2000 were all that were offered by the cos.
Then George Crowley, the City Mutual’s
managing-director, who can always be
depended upon to do something unusual,
burst forth with the offer to accept 5000 of
these “Victory” policies “for a start.” How
many, if any, of the 4927 new policies writ-
ten during the year were “Victory” policies
is not stated, but what premiums did come
in in this way must have been almost wholly
profit, for very few recruits of a year ago
got further than the training camps. Since
no definite information is given concerning
the number and amount of these special tem-
porary policies, this paper is not inclined to
take much notice of the sudden spurt in the
new-business figures. However the new
business is composed, it apparently cost
more than usual to get. Reckoning that
the renewal business cost 7 p.c. and the
single-premium business 3 p.c., then the new
policies were written at a cost of 78 p.c. of
the first-year premiums got in, which is 4
p.c. more than during the previous year.
The general increase in the cost of living
(and even insurance canvassers have to
live) would no doubt explain most of this.
War claims have hit the Society heavily,
the claims-by-death figures having soared in
this way:—
1913. . £22,618 ! 1916. . £30,801
1914.. 18,787 | 1917.. 61,333
1915.. 36,451 I 1918.. 55,534
Last year £40.000 represented war outgoings
and in the previous year £45.000. These are
heavy losses, more so because they are in
respect of young policy-holders who had paid
the Society comparatively little by way of
premiums. Still the war has provided one
compensation : funds are earning higher in-
terest than formerly. Average funds in 1914
gave a return of 5.77 p.c. At that rate the
income on average funds for last year would
have been £63,238; the actual receipts were
£64,755, equal to just over 5.9 p.c.—an aston-
ishingly high figure. And these improved earn-
ings were made despite the increased holding
of public securities and the £139.000 more
now in freeholds.
So far as bonuses are concerned, policy-
holders have been exceedingly fortunate, the
rate having been unaffected by the war. On
whole-life policies a bonus of £l2 10s. was
distributed 10 years ago. The annual dis-
tribution gradually increased until for 1915
£3O per £lOOO was handed out; and this rate
—“the highest paid by any life office in the
world,” says George Crowley—has been
maintained during the war years. Inoiden-
tally, though the funds are earning 5,9. p.c..
this office calculates its liabilities on the
basis that the funds will earn only 3j P-c.
p.a. The lower the assumed rate the
stronger the reserves, and the largei the
margin available for future bonuses.
During the past live years cash bonuses
totalling £195.769 have been declared, and
onlv £774S of that has been handed over the
counter Thus 96 p.c. of the bonuses have
been utilised to buy additional insurance —a
compliment to the management and evidence
of a commonsense attitude on the part of
policy-holders. .
This shows how the funds are invested
now and also five years ago . ■
1913. p.c. • 1918. p.c.
::*SKSIS *|
Loam on policies .. WM|» sols
; ? « g. 4;« jo
Cash & sundries .. 41,737 6.3
£717,110 £1,235,710
The public, securities now held are shown less
£168,013 due to banks to purchase M ar
Loan As these instalments are met the
proportion of this item will increase. Lia-
bilities otherwise are practically the same as
five years ago. /
The British Tobacco Co. (Australia),
Ltd.:— ,
Dividends. 1
6 p.C. 1° Re ‘ Re ‘
Tnn Profits. Pref. Ordinary. serves, serves.
1915 £532 824 £89,084 12p.c.=£438,615£5122£24,498
1916.. 538,532 89,081 12 „ „ 443,495 5903 30,40 l
1017 536 974 89.084 12 ~ ~ 447,170 710 31,166
lOls" 53°'543 89 084 12 ~ „ 449,562 897 32,063
\lll: t&ltl Aott 12;;;; 451,702. nos 33,16 s
Paid capital is £5,254,212 in 1,484/727 £1
6 p.c. prefs. and 3,769,480 £1 ofds. 1 oi the
ordinaries investors are offering 385., for the
rn-efs. 20s. 6d. Thus the market valuation
of the whole outfit is £8,683,866. What is
there to represent this £8.683,866? Here
are the assets exactly as laid out in the bal-
ance-sheet : %
Shares, in subsidiary cos. (book value) .. £4,769,4,0
War loam 200,000
Debtors and debit balances
Cash..
£5,422,677
At the same date the co. owed £135,297. De-
ducting the surplus of liquid assets, there is
thus £4,769,470 of “shares in subsidiary cos.
to represent £8,165,956 of the present market
valuation. And since nobody except the
very select few right inside know anything
of the state of health of the. subsidiary cos.,
so far as the security for capital is concerned
the investor who offers 28s. for the £1 ords.
is taking a plunge in the dark. The induce-
ment is the regular 12 p.c. divs. The market
regards the co. as a sort of permanent in-
stitution and is not so much concerned about
the security for the capital as the likelihood
of a continuance of the 12 p.c. div., which is
equivalent to 6| p.c. on current market
prices.
The British Tobacco is a holding co. only,
and shelters under its wing the old Cameron
and Dixson concerns, W. D. and H. O. Wills
(Aus.) and the States Tobacco. Various
other shows had previously been swallowed
by these cos., which continue to lead an in-
dependent existence. As indicated above, all
the British Tobacco reports and balance-
sheets have to say is not of much value.
There is no indication of (1) the amount of
capital representing the goodwill of the
amalgamated concerns; (2) the aggregate
net profits of the subsidiary cos. each year;
or (3) the reserves which have been stored
up by the various managements. All share-
holders are told is that for the past year net
profits and dividends amounted to £561,136,
but that the figures “do not include the co.’s
interest in the undivided profits of the sub-
sidiary cos.” Under the circumstances it
is useless attempting to guess what progress
the big combination is making. During the
past three years the disclosed net profits of
the parent co. have barely covered the divi-
dend distributions. During the past five
over £2.676,000 has been handed out m
dividends, but only £13,792 has been tacked
on to reserves. Meantime, however, any-
thing from a penny to a million pounds of
surplus profits may have been accumulated
in half a dozen or more stockings in the sub-
sidiary shows. There is reason to believe
that, though disclosed profits have not
sagged, the results have not been so fat dur-
ing recent years. During the first three
years of the war the prices of locally-manu-
factured smokes to the consumer were not
increased, but 12 months ago the chairman
told shareholders that “the time had come
when the very high prices of leaf, excessive
cost of freight, insurance and handling
charges, together with the excessive cost of
all other materials, rendered it necessary for
an advance.” All the subsidiary concerns
have been benefiting by this advance over
practically the whole of the past year, yet the
onlv effect on the parent co.’s figures is au
additional £2400 profit. Still it is useless
attempting to guess how the subsidiary cos.
have been faring. The curtailment of the
amounts appropriated under the employees’
profit-sharing scheme may, however, be an
indication that there has been a heavy fall in
the profits of the subsidiary cos. Each year
the directors set aside a portion of the profits
of the parent co. to purchase employees’
shares, and the amounts so appropriated
during the past live years have been as
follow 1915. £33.536 ; 1916, £38,708 ; 1917,
£32,285; 1918. £15,771; and 1919, £19,185.
Altogether, £139,485 has been distributed
among employees in this way since 1914.
On this they get 12 p.c. p.a. (=£16,738),
and after a certain period the holders rank
as ordinary shareholders, and the shares can
be sold after five years if the employees so
desire.
Pelaco, Ltd., formerly Pearson, Law,
Ltd., Melbourne, manufacturers of shirts,
collars and men’s wear :
Deficit
( Goodwill
Dividends. not
r A Writ- reckoned
Pref. ten as an
June, Profit. 7 p.c. Ordinary. Off. Asset).
1912.. £945 Nil £7,524
Dec.,
1912.. £1,325 706 Nil £194 7,099
1913.. 4,494 1486 Nil 473 4,564
Reserves.
1914.. 7,874 1487 7p.c.= £991 567 265
1915.. 6,248 1487 10 „ „ 1,416 918 2,692
1916.. 8,269 1783 10 „ ~ 1,699 961 6,518
Transferred to capital, £5664.. .. 854
Deficit.
Co. re-formed and re-named; £18,486
added to goodwill, items .. .. 17,632
Written
Profit. Dividends. Off.
1917.. 10,416 10,071 958 18,245
Further goodwill items, £133 .. 18,378
A B
Prefs. Prefs. Ord.
7 p.c. 9 p.c. p.c.
1918.. 15,131 2082 1406 5000 1053 12,788
Six years ago this co.’s paid capital stood
at £35,400, £12,000 of which
the purchase of the old business and its'
goodwill (apparently £7400). But expan-
sion has been so rapid that at Dec. 31 last
paid capital was £94,736, made up in this
way:—•
29,736 £1 7 p.c. Prefs. fully paid .. £29,736
50 000 £1 9 p.c. Prefs. paid to 10s. .. 25,000
80,000 10s. Ords. fully paid .. . . 40,000
Even then the management had to lean on
the bank to the extent of £28.443. So a
further parcel of 30,000 ordinaries is being
put out. A better view of how the ener-
getic management has built up the business
can be got from a comparison of the gross
profits
1913 .. £15,563 I 1916 .. £28,956
1914 . . 20,530 I 1917 . . 34,777
1915 . . 21,591 | 1918 . . 46,337
Five years ago salaries, wages and exes,
took £11,068; last year £31,206. Which
means that this co., by teaching Australians
to wear locally-made shirts, collars, etc., is
keeping something like £20,000 more per
annum in the Commonwealth to provide
jobs for Australians. And besides doing
the good work of further demonstrating
that Australian labor can turn out products
equal in quality to the imported, this co. is
also showing that, given reasonable pro-
tection, capital as well as labor can find pro-
fitable employment in Australian factories.
That money is not easily got for such enter-
prises as this is obvious from the £25,000
of prefs. which cost the co. 9 p.c. p.a.—a
heavy load to carry in dull times. For the
past year, however. Pelaco net profits were
equal to 15 p.c. of the paid capital.
After paying the current divs. there was
a P. and L. credit balance of £5963; but
the £18.751 of the capital still represented
by the intangible goodwill item (which was
smaller when the co. reconstructed two
years ago) and underwriting exes, explains
the deficit of £12.788 shown in the first
table. Liabilities amount ' to £48.621.
equal to more than half the total capital.
But the position is quite easy. There is
£7B 260 in stocks and £31.205 due by sundry
traders, while £15,654 has been put into pro-
perties and £10,292 into plant and machinery.
* * * *
J. C. Lunowici and Son, Ltd., leather
manufacturers, etc., Sydney :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dee., 1912.. £3345 10 p.c. = £2832 £513 £7061
June, 1913.. 3565 10 „ „ 2832 733 7794
Dec., 1913.. 2127 S ~ „ 2266 7655
June, 1914.. 1719 7 „ „ 1982 7392
Dec., 1914.. 1851 7 „ „ 1982 7261
June, 1915.. 2023 7 „ „ 1982 41 7302
Dec., 1915.. 2399 7 „ „ 1952 417 7719
June, 1916.. 2243 10 „ „ 2532 7130
Dec., 1916.. 2532 10 „ „ 2832 71.30
June, 1917.. 2532 10 „ „ 2832 7130
Dec.. 1917.. 3110 10 „ „ 2832 284 7414
•Tune. 1918.. 3135 10 „ „ 2832 303 7717
Dec., 1913.. 3206 10 „ „ 28?2 374 8091
Everything now seems to be running on ball-
bearings in this 27-year-old co. For a while
there was some internal commotion, and
while the directors talked at each other there
was a slide in profits. But one of the
factions, got out and gradually the lost
ground has been recovered. . The eo.’s pro-
ducts have also become more widely known,
and there are prospects of a growing export
trade. It is a disgrace that while the Common-
wealth continues to export about three mil-
lions’ worth of skins and hides each year, the
local tanning industry has not expanded.
There are fewer factories at work now than m
1911, though practically the same number of
hands are employed. So. provided Lud-
owici’s can maintain a high-quality output,
there is an almost unlimited field to work >n
when the industry does get a move on.
This is a business which does not require
a big outlay on plant. Capital is £56,644
and only £3576 is tied up in machinery, etc.
This compares the position now and five
years ago :
1913. 1918.
Liabilities .. ■ • £644 C 8,655
Properties, buildings .. 17,30$ 16,181
Machinery, plant, etc... 3,439 3,57<>
Stocks " 37,737 41,466
Book debts . . • • -7,591 11,892
Cash, etc. . • • • 1,133 3,752
After making additions to plant out of earn-
ings and paying dividends averaging not
quite 9 p.c. p.a., the liquid assets have grown
by £2638 in the five years. Deduct the
£2OO in trust for the employees’ superannua-
tion fund, and the £447 reserve for taxes,
and only £2OOO has been put by. Though
the co.’s position is quite comfortable, there
is a doubt whether it would not be more
prudent to hold on to a little more of the
profits.
. * * *
North Broken Hill, Ltd., which till
six years ago was the N.B.H. Mining Co.,
which was in its turn a reconstruction of a
co. formed 10 years earlier: —
Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
£ £ £ £
June,’ll.. 62,,201 60 p.c.= 52,500 12,662 103,936
Dee. ’ll.. 98,708 70 „ „ 61,250 12,168 129,226
June, ’12.. 101,663 93J „ „ 93,750 11,910 125,229
Dee., T 2. . 175,993 220 „ ~220,000 17,200 64,022
Assets written up and all reserves capitalised.
Capital increased from £200,000 to £600.000.
June, ’l3. . 142,018 20 p.c.= 60,000 3,265 78,<53
Dec. ’13.. 152,596 40 ~ ~120,000 1,925 109,424
June, T 4. . 183,845 50 ~,,160,000 143,269
Dec., ’14.. 56,216 Nil 199,485
June ,’15.. 75.724 10 p.c.= 30,000 245,209
Dec., ’15.. 169,201 40 ~,, 120,000 294,410
June, ’16.. 142,092 40 „,, 120,000 316,502
Dec., ’16.. 171,442 40 ~,,120,000 -- 367,944
June, ’l7. . 183,299 40 ~,,120,000 431,243
Dec., ’l7. . 217,239 40 ~,,120,000 528,482
June, ’lB.. 175,005 40 „ ~120,000 10,512 5/2,9/5
Dec., ’lB. . 179,116 40 „ „ 120,000 —• 632,091
The war hasn’t done this co. any harm so
far. A year or two before the horror started
there were agitated whispers that new pro-
cesses would presently make it possible for
some of the Broken Hill cos. to net a
pound a ton out of their ore. In the
North’s half-year to the end of June, 1914,
this was realised: the output was 156,020
tons ore. and the profit was £183,845, or
about £1 3s. 6d. per ton. For the past
half-year the output was down to 74,385 tons ;
but the profit was up to £2 Bs. 3d. per ton.
These figures open up a serious question.
All the ore raised in Australia ought to be
treated in Australia, and except as to zinc
that is alleged to be the Government’s
policy so far as industrial metals are con-
cerned. But it is quite clear that present
Australian works cannot handle more than
about half of the pre-war output of Austra-
lian lead mines. So long as war prices last,
that doesn’t matter very much; profits are
at least maintained at their old level. But
when lead and zinc get back to normal, then
profits are going to look sick unless either
Australian smelting works are largely in-
creased or the export of concentrates is
resumed. And where will they go? Ger-
man buyers bought the bulk of them for
treatment in their o.wn country, or in Bel-
gium : and there are as yet no works in
Britain to replace the German and Belgian
fui’naces.
Though the North has been paying divi-
dends of 40 p.c. p.a. since the middle of
1915, and, moreover, paying it. on watered
capital, the directors have still been able
to put a nice bit by. Look at this compari-
son :—•
June,’l4. June,’lS. Dec.,’lB.
Assets apart from mine
and plant . . . . £240,615 £889,551 £909,929
Liabilities . . . . 29,390 251,244 242,156
£211,225 £638,307 £667,773
And even that, though it shows £456,548
put by since June, 1914, does not exhibit
all the improvement. For the assets taken
into account do not include the 200,000
shares in the Associated Smelters, and
various smaller holdings; on the other side
it does not include the £159,800 owing on
debentures issued in connection with the
Smelters purchase. The debentures, by the
wav, call for a sinking fund of £6666 per
half-year. As the debt is paid a correspond-
ing amount is not written off the Smelters
investment, which still stands at £200,000
in the books; instead, the practice is
adopted of transferring the amount to a
reserve for new machinery. The result is
to swell the balance-sheet figures. Generally
speaking, that is the directors’ policy—ta


Wolfram, Scheelite
and Molybdenite.
PRICES AT PRODUCING CENTRES:
MOLYBDENITE:
85 per cent, or over, 100/- for each
unit Mo S 3.
WOLFRAM AND SCHEELITE.
65 per cent, or over, 53/6 for each
unit WO3.
Enquiries Invited relative to
LOWER GRADES of the above
Minerals.
DALGETY 8 CO. LTD.,
Commonwealth Government Agents.
The Pacific Cableßoard
BEST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, etc.
A “WEEK-END” rate is now available
from Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada, also for the United States of
America, to be posted from Canada.
WEEK-END messages are accepted up to
midnight on Saturday for delivery in Great
Britain and Canada on the following
Monday morning.
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC.”
Daily
Ordinary. Deferred. Week-end.
1/6
/ 9d. (minimum
115/-, 20 words)
New Zealand.. 4|d.
Canada .. 2/4 • 1/2
I 7d. (minimum
1 11/8,20 words)
U.S.A 2/4 to 2/8 1/2 to 2/4
{
7d. (minimum
11/8,20 words)
Heek-end Service with the United Kingdom
and u.S.A. has been temporarily suspended
Argentine, Brazil, Chili and Peru, West
Indies, Cential America and other rates on
application. Cable forms, Deferred and
Week-end Regulations may be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
77 Pitt Street, Sydney. Te.l. City 1346 (3 lines).
Queen s House, Queen St., Melbourne. Tel. 2588.
J. MILWARD. Manager hi the Pacific
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. —~
Now that winter is approaching, it is time to
think about some method of keeping warm during the
cold season. Those who have an electric service in
their homes could not do better than install a G.E.
Radiator to drive away the chill. These convenient
and ornamental radiators are made with two, three
or four lamps, or with heater coils, in a variety of
attractive designs. You should call in and see them.
Australian General Electric Company, Wentworth
Avenue, Sydney; and corner of Queen and Little
Collins streets, Melbourne. — AdVT.
Conserved water, especially in country districts,
quickly becomes contaminated. To drink such water
exposes one to grave danger from disease. Alumino-
ferric quickly clarifies and purifies water in dams,
tanks, etc. You use it in the proportion of lib. to
every 3000 gallons of water. Most effective and quite
harmless. Used by leading Water Supply Boards
throughout Australia. William Adams & Co., Ltd.,
175 Clarence Street, Sydney. Melbourne: 521-3 Col-
lins Street. Adelaide: 9G Currie Street. Brisbane:
Corner Edward and Mary Streets. Perth: 33 King
Street. —ApvT. [3
* * * *
For grinding all classes of material in Ball Mills
and Tube Mills it is necessary to have a suitable
grinding medium. The mines in West Australia,
also numerous cement plants, are using balls of forged
tyre steel, and find that they give excellent results.
These balls may be obtained in various sizes from
the Austral Otis Engineering Co. of Melbourne, who
have put in a special plant for forging them, and
can give delivery of most sizes from stock. This
company also manufactures forged steel shoes and
dies for battery work. —Advt. [3
* * * *
Corroded pipes a thing of the past. Pioneer
Wood Pipe has made all the difference to the
engineer. He can now plan a permanent system by
specifying Pioneer Wood Pipe, which remains un-
changingly efficient throughout an unlimited length
of service. Send for illustrated catalogue. The
Australian Wood Pipe Company Limited (Head
Office, Burns Bay, Lane Cove). P.O. address: Box
1576 G.P.0., Sydney. Contractors to all State
Governments.— Advt.
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorney,
for information. Address: 77 Castlere'agh Street,
Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink’s Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723.— Advt.
♦ * * *
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne. — Advt.
* * * *
Road-graders for building good roads, for making
and grading earth roads, cleaning out water tables,
making fire-breaks, etc. We carry large stocks of the
best procurable and most up-to-date machines.
Several, different sizes stocked to bo worked by two,
four or eight horses or traction-engine power. Cata-
logues and full particulars upon application. Arthur
Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay East, Sydney.
Queensland inquiries: The Australian Machinery Co.,
Mary Street, Brisbane.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assa
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowes
oh all n° r writ ® for Particulars. IT. B. Selby &Co
Ltd,,. 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bon
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street, Melb.— Advi
. .Palmer, 8.E., Fel. Chem. Soc., etc., consul!
■mg _ engineer valuing, organising, technical advici
metau rgy station and selective flotatio
pioceoses. Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 Pit
M^eltfourife^”—-A D VT. Cab^eS Tele ™ s: “ Rpmla l
Rx P° rt C°- has a speciallv-designec
the treatment of complex ores. Separator
sneclnlfv ’rrw < 7° Ppe - r ’ mol Fhdenite and bismuth :
mints— ADVT IB * 68 * PnCe glVen ’ P rom Pt cash settle
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Loss of Profits
insure in
The
.O.A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital
Subscribed Capital
Paid-up Capital ..
Income (Cross) 1918
Established
■ ■ £250,000
194,235
96,497
.. 457,852
1910.
ACENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
When making a Will or Settlemen 1
appoint The
Union Trustee
Company of Australia Ltd.
Your EXECUTOR or TRUSTEE.
The only Trustee Company with branches
in more than one State.
NEW SOUTH WALES. VICTORIA.
QUEENSLAND.
Sydney Office, 48 Young Street.
Directors: Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar,
K.C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman) ; Hon. James
Ashton, M.L.C. ; Hon. 11. Y. Braddon,
M.L.C.; F. B. S. Falkiner, M.H.R., James
Kidd ; W. H. Mack ay, R. M. Pitt, and
Duncan Sinclair.
G. Watson,
Assistant Manager.
J. Mair,
Manager.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS- IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Pig Iron, Billets, Blooms, Steel Rails,
Structural Steel, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON—3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street
SYDNEY—2S O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street Melbourne.
make the figures look big. The plant, foi
instance, remains in at cost, though cur-
rent additions are written off. If those
additions have not kept the plant up to its
original value in the books of this co., then
the profits shown above are to that extent
overstated. Also the amount shown above
as put by in the past 4$ years is not all
true surplus profit. But certainly no great
amount would have to be cut out of it.
The future? This paper will not pro-
phesy. Almost everything depends on the
price of metals. For the half-year to June,
1914, the average price of lead was £lB
145.; of silver 2s. 4 2-3 d. In July, 1914,
zinc was £2l 10s. In 1917 silver touched
4s. 7d.; last year lead went to £4l; and. in
1916 spelter averaged £73 10s. Present
prices are: silver, 45.; lead, £2B; spelter,
£3B. The recoverable lead contents of last
half-year’s output can be taken approxi-
mately at 10.250 tons; of the silver at, say,
500,0000 z.. Even £5 a ton of lead; and Is.
per oz. of silver make a difference of £75,000
in the value of the product. Then there
is the zinc to be taken into account: the
North’s output is treated on a profit-sharing-
basis with I)e Bavay’s. The serious ques-
tion, referred to above, is. Can the output
be increased to counterbalance the inevit-
able further fall in these metal values? If
iso, how is it going to be done?
Of ore there is no scarcity. Five years
ago it was reckoned there were 3,300,000
tons above the 1400 ft. level. The estimate
is now 2,600,000 tons; and the work of
crosscutting at the 1550 ft. level is just
about to commence. The main shaft is
down another lift below that, and a plat
has been cut at that level ready for driving.
There are 600,000 shares in the co., so the
surplus of more or less liquid assets
(mostly more) are equal to about 235. per
share. To that add the value of the invest-
ment in the Smelters in excess of the de-
benture debt (say Is. 6d. per share), plus
the value of the 2,600,000 tons of known
ore and the unknown quantity of ore be-
low the 1400 ft. In the 150 ft. between the
1250 ft. and 1400 ft. levels it was estimated
that there were 1,300,000 tons. On present
appearances there shouldn’t be very much
less than that in the next 150 ft.; but that,
of course, has yet to be determined.
* * * *
N. S. Wales Minister for Mines Fitz-
patrick, after perusing in confidence the costs
of the various copper-mining cos., asked the
conference if it had anything more to say,
adding that he himself felt he could say
nothing. The costs had evidently taken his
breath. Finally, he gathered sufficient
strength to say that he would bring the
matter before Cabinet, but he could make no
recommendation and feared the position was
hopeless. This was Fitzpatrick, the
Treasurer, speaking. What the copper men
wanted to hear was Fitzpatrick, the Minis-
ter for Mines. Yet the State Government
could hardly be expected to stand behind the
mines. If anybbdy’s, it’s a Commonwealth
job, because the Federal Government con-
trols the metal position.
Although those not deeply interested may
be inclined to wait and see if W. M. Hughes
can handle Australia’s exportable surplus of
metal to advantage, the secondary-industry
interests are justified in their cries for the
promised Protective tariff. American sheet-
are buying copper in the neighborhood
of £7O per ton, and are consequently able,
despite continued tall freights, to land
copper-sheet in Australia at £5O per ton less
than it can be produced in the Common-
wealth. Further, American copper is actu-
ally on the market here to-day. The Federal
Government in its apathy is allowing even
our own local market for copper to go to
outsiders. Meanwhile the mines close down.
. The position in respect of brass is pre-
cisely the same. There is no brass in the
world which excels in quality that made from
Australian refined copper and Australian
refined zinc. To-day Australian zinc (con-
trolled by the British Munitions Depart-
ment) costs the Australian manufacturer at
least £lB per ton more than the market price
for the same metal in London. Did W. M.
Hughes sell our zinc to the British Govern-
ment so that it should be able to squeeze the
Australian manufacturer? Is this the re-
ward that is to be meted out to those who
took W. M. Hughes at his word, and started
these secondary industries?
Take antimony. The Australian manufac-
turer to-day has to pay for his own Aus-
tralian antimony £25 per ton more than
antimony is quoted in the U.S. This may
not be the smelters’ fault, but if we want to
reopen our own antimony-mines (they are
practically all closed down) Acting-Prime
Minister Watt had better see to it that our
antimony is used, and the tariff is the only
thing that will accomplish it.
The morning that N. S. Wales Treasurer
I Dzpatrick told the copper cos. that he could
-G? them ’ the chairman of the Broken
Hill Mine Managers’ Association announced
that as the munitions contract for the pur-
chase of lead expired at the end of this
month, the future whs regarded with some
anxiety, and that miners who had lost their
jobs elsewhere should not go to Broken Hill.
Well, though copper and other mines are
closing down all over the Commonwealth,
The Bulletin forecasts that a way will be
found for keeping the Hill going for a while.
If W. M. Hughes fails with lead, his name
will indeed be Mud.
* * * *
The Broken Hill cos, have appointed a
new expert—a “consulting industrialist.”
Gerald Mussen, who years ago was on
Sydney Telegraph staff, and from there
passed to the service of the Baillieus, gets
the job. For two years past he has been
doing for the Associated Smelters work of
the same nature that his new appointment
will call for. His chief labors have so far
been at Port Pirie, where, among other
things, he set up a rest-camp on the Gulf. Gn
smelting works it is of the utmost import-
ance that men should turn up on the job
regularly. As a reward for regularity work-
ers may take their families to this pleasant
rest-camp, \yhere quarters, etc., are pro-
vided for them free, and their wages' go on
for a fortnight. The Broken Hill cos. are
prepared to spend a good deal of money in
making life more comfortable for their
workers. The British B.H. alone lately
authorised the directors to. spend up to
£50,000.
■ * . * , *
“There’s no little mine in N. S. Wales
that has done so much with such, unsatis-
factory results.” That was chairman F. B.
Brown’s Summing-up of New Burragorang
to shareholders the other day. The drought
hit Yerranderie badly last year, and the co.’s
new concentrating mill doesn’t seem to have
helped matters. In 1917 £3750 was paid
in divs. and a debt of £1125 to the old
co, was wiped out, and still there -was a
credit balance. During that year the co.
treated at the Yerranderie co.’s mill 518 tons
seconds for 42 tons concentrates worth
£22 14s. 3d. net at Cockle Creek. Last year
New Burragorang, running its own mill,
treated 358 tons ore for 46 tons concentrates
worth less than £8 net at Cockle Creek.
There seems to be something very wrong
somewhere. The tailings might tell. There
may have been a great slump in the value
ot the ore; certainly the concentrates don’t
now seem to carry higher values than the-
crude seeomls did formerly. The result was
a loss of £o4l for the year—a shuddersome
result considering the boom in silver.
Carpathia held its half-yearly disturbance
in Sydney the other day, and shareholders
and directors threw bricks of eloquence at
each other for six hours. At the end of
that time chairman W. G. McDonald found
himself in strange company—several of the
old directors dropped out and an election
left him leader of a Board comprised of the
opposition. During the past half-year,
though prices slumped £56 per ton, 81 tons
concentrates gave a net profit of £5372. No
divs. were forthcoming, however, as expendi-
tore on the mine and new battery ran into
£4<o4, and a couple of thousand more had
been spent in assuring a fuel supply. The
co. is still running its Barmedmrfn battery,
the new plant on the mine at Ardlethan not
having been completed yet, though it is doing
some work.
* * # *
J. E. Scantlebur.v. with an eye to the
limited term of his co.s tribute, is hustling
/xT n f S at the Amalgamated Hill End
(jN.b.W), where limited quantities of
stone of unusual richness have been got
lately Ihis rich stuff, from the Mica
vein, has been bagged for crushing next
in°an th ’ an , d i s„ „t:ilk of a possible
JOOOoz. cake. The 3d4oz. amalgam taken
tiom 60 tons outside the shoot zone is also
encouraging.
* * * *
Molybdenite, near Bathurst
UN.fe.W.). has steadied up to allow of the
coupling up of the second 10-head of stamps.
A third 10-head is now being talked about.
Meanwhile the show might have to give
some attention to its water supply. During
the recent drought things went so badly
that several week-end stops were found
necessary; and a bigger supply will be
wanted with the enlarged mill.
“Oof Bird”: Federal indifference and in-
terference with the export and treat-
n!i‘nt, j k ase metals have adverselv
a fleeted Westralian mining from Phillips
Biver to Pilbarra, from Greenbuslies to
Northampton, and to make matters worse
such indifference and interference have
been coincident with substantial falls in
maiket prices. It took the Greenbushes
producers months to secure permission to
ship tin, which they couldn’t sell in Aus-
tralia, and by the time the necessary autho-
rity had been secured the market value had
fallen from £270 to £203 a ton. The Whim
Well Copper Co., in the nor’-west, could
have done well by selling its ore to Japan,
but the. Commonwealth Government refused
permission and insisted that the ore should
be treated in Australia and that the product
should be disposed of through the Australian
Metal Exchange. As this would have meant
a loss, the eo. asked the Government to
allow it to ship ore to Britain, but found
on getting permission that freight and
charges were prohibitive. Baffled in its
attempts to unload its ore profitably the co.
closed down. Result, a knock-out blow to
the field. At Northampton, where lead is
visible in fair quantities, things began to
brighten considerably, when Commonwealth
meddling and callous indifference as to
whether the field lived or died paralysed
operations and threw nearly everybody there
out of employment. Until the Government
mends its ways base-metal mineowners in
this State seem inclined to let things slide.
* * * *
Not only have Mararoa profits from the
Norseman mine (W.A.) come down to a
shade over £llOO for six months, but the
Board has contingent liabilities of £2OOO to
meet in June and the same in September on
account of the purchase of the Light of Asia,
at Cue, as well as £3400 for. slimes, the
first payment to start in May. So calls are
ahead. As Mararoa ore got below the pay-
line the staff is now picking out the rem-
nants that will bring in a bit of a profit
while all the plant possible is being carted
to Cue. . W. Henderson has a lot to say
about all he has had to do to get the Light
of Asia into trim down to 327 ft., but he
doesn’t tell much of what are his impres-
sions now that he is there. The original idea
was that the Light of Asia would show
richness without much capital outlay, but
apparently the vendors rocked Out the last
rich patch at 310 ft. before giving over pos-
session. So a new level may have to go in
before the’battery says anything of import-
ance. ,
Golden Butterfly (W.A.) is busy report-
ing high assays from its latest option near
Southern Cross. But whether the venture
has the makings of a payable mine is an-
other matter. Hitherto the co. has been
unfortunate in getting hold of shows which,
while assisting in a small way to open up
the country, and keeping a nub and' store
going for a year or two, were never any good
to shareholders; • So far there isn’t anything
to indicate that the present venture will
be worth much.
* # * *
From Westonia:. Applications from the
Edna May Consolidated Extended and
Golden Point cos. for £ for £ subsidies have
been favorably considered by the Mines De-
partment, but such assistance, if granted, is
to be conditional on the money being spent
in crosscutting at depth for definite objects,
and not in blind bore-hole stabs or aimless
pot-holing.
# * * *
It looks as if the div. which the sporty
followers of the Edward Millers squeezed
out of the bears during the little corner in
A 1 Gaffney’s (Vic.) scrip a while ago will
be the last for some time to come.
Labor is the excuse; John Till says
that, as he could do no progressive
development during the December term
owing to short supply of workers, ore
production must be cut down to only so much
as will pay exes, while his programme of
work is carried out by the staff so released.
But if there be all this sudden necessity to
develop, why belt out 6000 tons and pay 4s.
in divs. during the last half-year? What
has to be done is to get the north-
ern end of the dyke opened up by sink-
ing the hoist shaft, and thus connect with
the 9 to 12 levels. This will cost a bit,
but if cheap handling and good working
conditions are to be offered to men to in-
duce them to winter in the snows of Gaff-
ney’s, the job has to be tackled. Till now
gets most of his stone from Nos. 10 and 12
levels, where the quartz floors run from 3ft.
to sft. in thickness. But as they have a
knack of cutting out, development cannot
be hung up. Six months back he sounded
a warning as to what had to be done, but
the management hung off. The market is
right in summing up the claim as over-valued
when scrip was near the forties, or even at
the thirties.
* * * *
The pow-wow at Bendigo between E. C.
Dyason and his Amalgamated admirers
was a friendly talk, after all. Dyason
was mysterious when he talked about the
mission of his lately-formed gold-selling com-
bine. But what the Amalgamated wants is
not a temporary premium on gold, but better
yields. To that end some promising boring
results have been got on the Derby line at
Job’s Hill. There the Golden Gully con-
veniently left a 200 ft. shaft for Dyason.
He now reckons that a penny per quarter
will keep the show going easily. Still,
people don’t want even penny calls; they
want divs., and if none of them are ahead
the sky, is clouded for Bendigo. A. 11. P.
Moline having got the hang of saddle-reefs
and their erratic ways, Dyason is now' flut-
tering out of the management, though of
course he stays on the Board.
Here is the wonderful record of Many
Peaks since 1907, when the co. began to
feed Mt. Morgan with fluxing ores. Output,
497,927 tons; royalty from Mt. Morgan,
£62,241; dividends to shareholders, £56,383.
All on a capital of £2041—81,640 shares of
6d. each. Last year Morgan changed its
treatment processes; and now Many Peaks
has, to look around for other markets. They
will not be easy to find.
(Continued on page 32.)


MORE CAMOUFLAGE,
Trade-circulars and price-lists are being received from German manufacturers who profess to have transferred their operations to the F.S.A., Switzerland and other countries.


3576
!sir9*&N!
REED
Ideal Beer for the Home
ABBOTS
LAGER-
Brewed from Pure Malt and Hops.
TAKE NO OTHER.
THE DEAF HEAR!
The loy and Happiness
of perfect hearing are
only appreciated by
those who have lost it.
The
Mears Earphone
makes it yours. The
Latest Model 96-Tone
Mears Earphone j
In the hollow of the
hand or attached to
ear with light head
band.
with its great range of
tone and power, can be regulated by a touch
of the finger to suit the hearing for every
occasion, and for all stages of deafness.
The MEARS EARPHONE catches and inten-
sifies even the least whisper, and enables the
deaf to hear lectures, sermons and plays clear-
ly and distinctly. Small, compact, and incon-
spicuous. The MEARS EARPHONE is
recommended by leading Aurists, and many
prominent Australian citizens have had the
Mears Earphone in daily use for Seven
Years, with continued satisfaction.
A Lengthy Guarantee with each Instrument
FREE TRIAL !
Call and test it, or write for booklet post free.
iHE Mears Earphone Co., Bernard’s Bldgs.,
Pel. 3916 City. 387 George Street, Sydney.
THE
Hotel Sydney
(SYDNEY)
Is one of the largest, most modern
and best equipped in Australia.
It is situated opposite the Railway Station
am] is centra] to everywhere.
ACCOMMODATION FOR 400 GUESTS.
Quiet, Cool and Comfortable.
Hot and Cold Water, Day and Night, in every
Bedroom.
Half an acre of Glorious Roof
Garden.
Tariff from 12/6 per day.
Have you Lunched or Dined at the “Sydney”?
Management E. T. CHEESEMAN.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
DUDS.
Over 400 divorce petitions await decision in
Sydney.
SYMPATHETIC COPPER: “Daniel! What
have you been doing? Over 400 misses?”
CUIPID: “ Dunno! Me bloomin" ammunition
must be defective!”
. Of the _27 Premiers who have held office
m Victoria Turner, Peacock, Bent, Murray,
Watt and Lawson were Australian-born.
Light Premiers led Governments more than
once. Turner and Peacock each had two
reigns. Only three of the six native Pre-
miers survive—Peacock, Watt and Lawson.
Allan McLean narrowly escaped being a
native. One of his pet election platform
gags was that he came out to Victoria
when three years old and brought his par-
ents with him. Peacock is the senior ex-
Premier.
Of the 95 members elected to the Vic.
Leg. Assembly and the 4S to the Leg. Council
30 years ago when Parliament was “re-
formed,” onlv two now hold seats —Outtrim
and Peacock. If continuous service be
counted Peacock is senior member of the
Assembly; he had sat for 30 years without
a break on March 28. It is usual, however,
to regard Outtrim as “father” of the House,
as he was first elected two Parliaments
earlier than Peacock.
Just-dead James Dalton, wealthy merch-
ant, of Orange and Sydney, was the last sur-
vivor of three magistrates of Orange who
were struck off the roll of J’s.P. by Henry
Parkes at the instigation of the yellow pup
for signing an address of welcome to certain
Irish delegates. The others were Michael
Casey (brother-in-law of the Daltons) and
auctioneer Bourke. Tom Dalton, brother of
James, died a few years ago. He was the
politician of the family, represented Orange,
and had a seat in the Leg. Council till his
death.
E. T. Fisk, the managing-director of the
Australan wireless co., has been making
tests to prove, the practicability of a direct
wireless service between Australia and
Europe. .Fisk,, who lives at Wahroonga,
just outside Syd-
ney, has of course
a plant on the pre-
mises , and with
this he has been in
regular direct com-
munication with
Carnarvon, in
Wales. One im-
portant thing has
been demonstrated
of late: ships in
the intervening
sea don’t even hear
the messages sent
from one continent
to another by the
big shore stations.
ARTHUR
COTTON, M.L.A.,
Tasmania's Parlia-
mentary grand-
father.
“D.”: News of the death of Mrs. Will
Dyson gives one a sense of pitiful waste.
Never did a girl strive more determinedly
to perfect herself in the technique of her
art. Coming from Creswick, a mere young-
ster, fired with the remarkable family
talent, Ruby Lindsay took a high room in
a tall house in East Melbourne, and with
the assistance of an explosive oil stove
batched through a long and toilsome pro-
bationary period, acquiring an extraordi-
nary facility with, her favorite medium, a
facility which subsequently drew from Hal-
dane Macfall the declaration that she was
the finest penwoman in England.
The new organist—successor to Sir Fred-
erick Bridge—at Westminster Abbey is a
learned Australian, Sydney Hugo Nicholson,
son of Charles Nicholson, the knight who
filled the Speaker’s chair in Macquarie-street
years ago, and was first Chancellor of Syd-
ney University. Before stepping into the
Westminster job, which is the giddiest perch
in his profession, Sydney Hugo sat in the
organ-loft of the Manchester Cathedral, and
before that in Carlisle Cathedral, where
Oliver Cromwell stabled his horses. In the
way of composition his specialty is cantatas.
S. Australia has suffered a great loss
by the death of Edward Stirling, one of
its public-spirited doctors. Native-born,
he went to Cambridge and from there to
London hospitals; then he returned to Adel-
aide to do all the good he could for his
country. He was the first and only Pro-
fessor of Physiology of the Adelaide Uni-
versity, director of the Adelaide Museum,
and the world’s leading authority on . the
long-extinct monster beasts of Australia.
In everything for the advancement of edu-
cation and science in S. Australia he was
a hard-working leader. Some years ago an
operation was found necessary; Sydney’s
great surgeon MacCormick performed it,
and, though it was successful, the aged Pro-
fessor was badly shaken, and lately
announced his retirement from active work,
ille strained his heart while on a little
duck-shooting expedition—he was ahvays
an ardent follower of outdoor sport—and in
six weeks he died. His body, after the in-
creasingly popular S. Australian manner,
was cremated.
Donald Melville, M.L.C., one of the earli-
est advocates , of railway electrification,
passed out at 90, three days after Mel-
first electrically-propelled trains
had been successfully tested. He was the
father of the Vic. House of Fossils, in which
he had drowsed, with occasional intervals of
activity, for 37 years. Born in Scotland
(like nearly everybody else in Victorian poli-
tics), he was Minister for Health and
Defence in the 1899-1900 McLean Ministry,
and served for 28 years on the Railways
Standing Committee.
Another victim of the Northern climate,
Frank Jardine, went west recently, after 82
years, most of them spent in the farthest
north of Australia. He will be best remem-
bered for a memorable trek he made in
1863-4 from Bowen to Somerset, a distance
of over 700 miles. Accompanied by his
brother, four whites and four blacks, he at-
tempted to take 40 horses and 200 cattle
through unsettled country to the new terri-
tory. The trip lasted about five months.
Blacks werp very troublesome for over half
the distance, and one of the white men was
speared in one of the many fights that took
place. All the stock were lost. In recog-
nition of their performance the two Jardines
were elected Fellows of the Geographical
Society.
Having elected to go to gaol for six
months, rather than enter into a bond not to
offend again, Mrs. Jennie Baines, the Mel-
bourne red-flagger, has resorted to the
hunger-strike, in which she is an experienced
craftsman. In England, where she was a
prominent member of the Swankhurst sister-
hood, several times, when gaoled, she fasted
with the object of proving her fitness to re-
ceive a vote. On one occasion, in spite of
all temptations to succumb to dainty rations,
she went foodless for 11 days. After going i
to gaol. 14 times in England, she came to
Australia about six years ago, under a nom-
de-flit, when due to appear at the Manchester
Assizes in connection with a suffragette dis-
turbance. She was fond afterwards of dis-
playing to admiring Yarra-bankers her Mili-
tant Medal—a brooch showing a design of
prison bars and broad arrow.
On March 18 Sydney Telegraph reported
the death at Bowraville (N.S.W.) of a vete-
ran soldier, William Marsh, aged 85. He
fought in the Indian Mutiny and was taken prisoner
a ? L 9ie Black Hole of Calcutta. He was one
o' 32 survivors.
The mutiny ended just 60 years ago, so
that may be right; but the Black Hole epi-
sode happened 163 years since. Actu-
ally there were 23 survivors of the Hole.
William was the other nine.
Too much attention to finicky details has
lost the Melbourne Art Gallery a treasure.
A philanthropist offered the trustees, cheap,
a picture by a famous artist of the Dutch
school - which had escaped the collectors,
-but & know-all spoilt the show by pointing
out that the famous artist had put on the
• picture a date four years after that on
which he died. These artists are a careless
lot.
At the annual meeting of S. Aus.
Agricultural College, at Eoseworthy, squat-
ter Alick Murray brought in some old
papers of his father, John Murray of Mt.
Cr awford, showing that in 1867 red-rust
and ‘take-all” had been rampant, and a £5O
prize for a paper on the remedies against
them was won by a parson, father of Mil-
ton Moss Maughan, the present S.A. Direc-
tor of Education.
Of the officers of the first Federal Con-
vention, held in Hobart, one at least is
still living—J. F. Collier. He was Clerk
Assistant, the office he held at the time in
the Tas. Leg. Council. Mr. Nowell, the
Clerk (he was Clerk of the Council), has
been dead many years. Mr. Collier is still
using a pen, these days in the service of
the Queensland Railways.
Lennons, the Vic. implement-makers,
still possess what is alleged to be the first
plough ever used in the State. It was
brought to Portland by the Ilentys in
1834,. and years later one of the family
gave it to the firm. It has a wooden frame,
and is still pretty solid looking.
. Gavin Gardiner, Adelaide’s best-known
investment broker, died on the same day as
Edward Stirling, and at the same ' age
(lO). He was one of the original members
of the Adelaide Stock Exchange in 1887,
and in private life was noted for his hos-
pitality, his flowers and his art-collection.
A throat trouble had afflicted him of recent
years.
John Meagher, M.L.C., though now ppst
80, will leave Sydney for Ireland by the
Ulysses. John came from Kilrush, in the
copnty of Kerry, where the small cattle are
bred. If you are born in the region of
Kilrush you can’t help fighting. Major-
General Chute, one time commander of the
Australian forces and an acting-Governor,
was known as “The Kerry Bull” in the
Maori War of the early ’sixties. Short and
stocky, he was as pugnacious, too, as the
little bull from which he got his name.
death of doughty old Donald Melville
robs Vic. Leg. Council of the one member who
had sat in that Chamber continuously since
1 arliament was “reformed” 80 years ago.
Died at Hobart, two years short of the
century, Jane Pitt, allegedly the oldest native-
born inhabitant of the Speck. Her grand-
father, Richard Pitt, was one of the seven
f, • sutlers who went to the Derwent with
Collins in. 1804 and were given grants of land
at Cornelian Bay.
POLITICAL ECONOMY.
BOLSHY VIC : “Now, I asks yer straight, do
ice get the full product of our labor?”
BEERY MICK : “ Course not. It's nearly half
froth.”
Ex-Attorney-General Captain Bill Denny,
M.L.A. of S.A., has just published in London
a book of his war experiences—“The
Diggers.”
Aulay Babington Macaulay is the name of
an officer in the S. Aus. Department of
Lands and Survey. What relation to the
historian?
Tommy Ryan. M.P., formerly of S.A. and
at present of Vic., gets starred in London
Chronicle as having stuck up Lloyd George
for his autograph. The Prime Minister
gave it, with this written above: “With deep
gratitude to Australia, and admiration for
her gallant sons.”
The oldest part of St. Kilda (Vic.) was
laid out by Thomas Nutt early in 1842, and
a plan of “the village of Fareham, near Mel-
bourne, ■’ was submitted to the Executive
Council in Sydney in August, 1842. “Fare-
ham” about this time was crossed out and
“St. Kilda” put in; but the records don’t
show who was responsible.
Colonel Foster, who died last week, was
the half-pay Engineer officer who some
years ago became first Director of Military
Science at Sydney University, and who sub-
sequently, through skilful wire-pulling, got
from Pearce the job of acting-Chief of Gen-
eral Staff in Australia. The old gentleman
was a frequent contributor to the press,
and was among those who, before the war.
pooh-poohed the notion that war rvas pos-
sible. He was a great authority on the
Siege of Jerusalem; nevertheless quite a
number of first-rate Australian officers
allege that they got considerable benefit
from his lectures.
Professor Nicholson, censor in Sydney
during most of the war, has gone back to his
job of teaching modern languages at the
university. Nicholson was the mildest-
mannered man that ever drew a pen. and it
was hard to say which he owned most of,
patience or courtesy. So far as the patience
is concerned, some day. when he has been
P l ?*, upon his oath to tell the whole truth, he
will admit that the Melbourne administra-
tion tried it more than all the other people
he had to deal with put together.
. Andrew Beveridge, one of the earliest
pioneers of the Murray country, was. in a
way. luckier than a lot. of the old-timers;
there is still a stone over his grave at the
Tyntynder homestead, near Swan Hill
(Vic.), to keep his memory green. Bever-
idge and his brothers were about the first
to push down the Middle Murray, and he
did some good exploration work hi the Mal-
lee country. About 1840 black brother
proved too much for him. There had been
a row about something and one day the
natives sent in word that they would spear
Andrew Beveridge on Sunday. Thinking
that if they really meant business they
would, not be in the least likely to say so.
Beveridge went about his business as usual.
But it was no bluff. On the Sunday they
came up and speared him to death.
FORWARD OBSERVATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Crash! Woosh! Bang! Bump!
“Hallo, Bait erg, you theret”
T Vizz! II (ooh! Wong! Crump!'
This ’phone ’cl make a parson swear.
“O.P. t” “That’s me.
Target B. One degree,
Bight, from Zero line....
Shake your microphone. .. .that’s fine!”
I’m crouching in a roadway, and we’re neighbors of
the Huns,
Sending back the shooting orders from the front line
to the, guns.
There’s a ’phone-receiver fastened with a strap across
my ear,
And the Forward Observation Officer is standing
near.
A battery of German guns is shooting o’er my head.
And the noise the shells are making is enough to
wake the dead.
Another gun is searching for the place in which I
crouch,
And the crumps are dropping close enough to make
an angel grouch.
My feet are frozen solid and my finger-tips are blue;
My tummy’s simply craving for some dinkum battery
stew.
A Taub’s machine-gun’s sniping, and he missed us by
a yard,
And, now, to put the tin lid on, it’s started snowing
hard.
The Observation Officer is sniping at the Huns—
Sniping, bless your little heart, with eighteen-pounder
guns.
If one or two Huns show their heads he lets them
off scot-free;
But watch him send the shrapnel if they number up
to three.
He just made seven Fritzies crawl like lizards in
the mud.
He’s nearly dancing now with joy and thirsting for
their blood.
“Drop 50! Drop 1001 Three rounds gunfire,”
orders he.
And every time they duck their heads he giggles
back at me:
“Knocked a cook’s cart rotten chased a mob of
mounted men. .. .
Broke a bloomin’ dugout roof in. .. .nearly hit a
motor then. . . .
Tell them shake that blessed crew up—what’s the
cause of this delay?....
Blow the whole caboose to blazes. Bravo, No. 11
Hooray!”
FRANCE.
A. E. YARRA.


A Seasonable Suggestion .
Buy an
Austral
AS the nights get
cooler you will
realise the need for
more covering either
when travelling or
sleeping at home.
On a journey an “Austral”
Rug is the acme of comfort
and service—at home it
meets an instant demand
for more warmth because of
its weight of all pure wool.
Made in Australia all
“Austral” Travelling Rugs
are unequalled standards
of quality at the price.
■■
Vv
I
*s W
The “Nulla Nulla” is a light-weight, hut large-sized, All-
wool Rug, measuring 60 by 84 inches, with fringed ends.
Available in several attractive broad-check patterns and quiet
colorings.
Price 19/0.
The “Coo-ee” measures 60 by 72 inches, and is a good
medium-weight for general use. W arranted to be all pure
wool, having fringed ends, and with both sides patterned in
pleasing designs. This rug is excellent value ar the price.
Price 21 f =
The “Bosker” Rug is too well known to need introduction
to most of our customers. Its extra large size and weight,
its quality of all pure wool, and the assurance of its wonder-
ful utility for home use, or when travelling all these
desirable features have helped to make the fame of the
“Bosker” Rug known all over Australia.
The actual size of the “Bosker” is 6ft. Sin. by Bft. 4in.,
which is larger than a full-sized double-bed blanket. As
the illustration shows, the patterns are attractive, large
check designs in light, medium and dark colorings.
Price 30/-
The "Canberra” is a Pure All-Merino Wool Rug reversible
in check designs. Colorings are mostly tones oi ’nown and
fawn, with grey, green and blue over-patterns, kizes 60 by
84 inches.
Price 42/-
The "Marrickville” is a Pure Merino Wool Rug of high-
grade finish and quality, patterned on one side and plain
on the reverse, and having heavily fringed ends. A good,
medium weight, size 60 by 84 inches, and available in rich
warm colorings, in which fawn, slate and brown shades
predominate. '
Price 55/-
The "Austral,” an extra-grade all-pure Australian Merino
Wool Rug, full weight. Size 60 by 84 inches. Patterned
on one side only, the reverse being quite plain. The large
check over plain patterns are most attractive, and include
the colorings of light and medium Brown, Fawn and Slate
shades.
Price 75/
Carnage is Paid on All Orders Throughout A ustralia.
Gowing C>RQS IIP
484=490 George Street, 3=17 Royal Arcade,
New Branch Shop at 304=306 George Street (near Hunter Street), UFN t Y


IN THESE SERIOUS EPIDEMIC DAYS
Get CLEMENTS TONIC for your Blood
Pure Blood means less risk of infection and greater powers of resistance to epidemic attacks.
The purer the blood the stronger the body . Epidemic disease thrives on the debilitated system.
These are anxious days for Australia, when it behoves all persons to take every care of themselves and ward nff orentest
effort the menace to health that threatens them. No one can afford to take any undue risk Tnd the vvbp hL ihl uLf rordi
ton of health and the greatest powers of resistance to any invading force, whetherit isepMemic Sase privation
climatic conditions, worries or minor illness, is best fortified against it. It is the old story i a new way of thesoS’wellarmed?
he is shielded from attack of destructive and destroying forces. * oi me soiaier wen armeu,
Clements Tonic, which, for a quarter of a century, has beenadmitted a medicine of rare health value in keeping the nerves sound
and the blood cool and pure, should now be used as a means to fortify the body and the general health. It tones up the stomach as
well, has a palliative effect on the bowels, stimulates the liver and kidneys, and imparts a healthy influence Clements Tonic is
largely a blood and nerve medicine, and should be a part of the medical equipment of every home at the present time
Get it from your Chemist To-day.
Clements Tonic Ltd.. Rozelle, N.S.W.
Use it as the Pure Blood Remedy.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
( “Bad Australian”: 1 believe the Bnglish
('hristmas is an invention of Dickens and
the t'hristmas-card manufacturers. There
should be muffled carol-singers, robins, snow
Ind Yule logs. I couldn’t find any of these
things. Instead, I looked out last Christ-
mas Day on a misty, water-logged country-
side without a trace of snow or ice or
sparkling rime. Nothing else but the patter
of rain and the whistle of the wild winds,
with occasional glimpses of a blood-red sun
or a pale moon showing through the mist.
The merry carol was silent, but the wild
DARING.
“She risks her life continually .”
"That's nothing. Tee known her to risk a
perfectly new costume.”
yells and ribald songs of some roysterers
and their lady friends who had been enjoy-
ing a beano at the village came down to
me on the sodden breeze. Out. in the fields
the primroses, daisies', daffodils, snowdrops
and violets received no attention. Ilad
they been shedding free beer it would have
been different.
Joyce : The Mast African “campaign”
against the Huns, as “Urnntu” (B. 6/3/’l9)
truly relates, was a military picnic. When
i an Deventer chased Yon Lettow and his
rabble to Portuguese Mast, our crowd with-
drew and all further effort at an organised
campaign was abandoned. Thereafter oper-
ations YT' J lirw ' tc J from Dar-es-Salaam
( -000 staff-officers and 6000 men on cushy
jobs), Lindi, Port Amelia, and other bases.
Scouting parties went out from these places
at intervals, presumably to admire the land-
scape, and hurried home to dinner. There
was no such thing as a stand-up scrap.
1 • j? i 011 kettow was in the vicinity of
Hindi, he sent his carriers in to buy up
stores. They cleaned up the canteens and
no questions were asked. The provisions
arrived safely and he wrote a sarcastic let-
ter to the 0.0., in which he bitterly com-
plained that the sausages were not as good
as usual. Any prisoners captured by the
boss Hun were relieved of their cash and
issued with receipts for 10-, 25- and 50-
rupee notes on the German Government,
printed on any old scrap of paper with a
primitive wooden stamp, and personally
signed by Von L. The gold was smelted
at the Tabora railway workshops and rolled
in ordinary plate rollers into small coins,
slightly curved. Incidentally, Von Lettow
made an open boast at the outset of hostili-
ties that he would not be captured, but
would come in two days after the fighting
stopped. He arrived punctually.
* * * *
“A.W.K.”: In a transport lately, when
’flu was very bad, two cobbers, both hard
seeds, occupied adjoining beds. After the
doc. had given them up as hopeless they
entertained themselves and their neighbors
by counting one another out. It would have
been humorous but for the awful tragedy of
it: alternately “One-tw0.... eight-nine— out
—you dead yet?” till one of them fSiled to
answer. I don’t know quite how I felt
about it ; pity and admiration were strangely
mixed. Did ever men laugh at death so
gaily as these Diggers?
“Australia Jane”: Returned soldiers in
Brisbane are flinging out rude remarks about
the Loyalty League. That organisation,
after making “preference for soldiers” its
slogan, advertised for an organising secre-
tary. Forty-six applicants came along,
most of them returned men, and no soldier
valued his services higher than £5OO per
annum. To the astonishment of everybody,
a civilian got the job at £750 per annum.
“Preference for soldiers” evidently only
applies to £2OO a year jobs.
-X- -X- * *
To the end of last year 2512 officers and
70,238 “other ranks” were returned to Aus-
tralia and discharged from the A.I.F. It is
a testimony to the value of stew that but 14
of them were lost to the forces on account of
obesity. Only 02 privates succeeded in get-
ting returned at their own request; no less
than 52 officers worked the trick. The service
of 98 officers and 520 men were “no longer
required”; and of the entire force only one
officer and six men were sent home on account
of self-inflicted wounds. The strain of war
was too much for the brains of 12 officers
and 053 men, and the nerves gave out in
1328 cases. Tuberculosis affected 39 offi-
cers and 1492 other ranks, although alto-
gether 133 officers and 5422 others were re-
turned suffering from various chest diseases.
That the army was temperate is shown by
the fact that alcoholism ruled out only five
officers and 15 men ; whereas five men and
923 others were sent back with deformed
feet, not the result of wounds. Dyspepsia
proved too much for seven officers and 93
ordinary blokes. Other place-getters : Rheu-
matism, 3676; frost-bite. 67: heart trouble.
4678; debility, 2023; hernia. 1089: and
nephritis, 1018. Catalepsy and scarlet-fever
are last with one case each. Shells, bullets,
bombs, bayonets, kicks and other sudden hap-
penings of war accounted for less than half
of the total 72.750. Germs and other annoy-
ances and miscellaneous reasons were re-
sponsible for the remaining 42,075.
* * * *
Fate played a shabby trick on a returned
fighting man at Auckland (M.L.) the other
day. When he went away he left his “allot-
ment” at the mercy of his best girl. On his
return he found that the maiden had
grabbed all his cash and married somebody
else. The jilted warrior went to law and
recovered most of his cash. Then he went
into hospital to undergo a serious operation
and died. That in itself was rotten luck,
but Fate had still another punch left. The
fighting man had made his will nearly five
years before entirely in favor of the girl and
had lodged it with the Public Trustee. It
being the only will in existence it stands, so
the lady gets back the cash she was forced
to disgorge, plus the rest of the dead soldier’s
estate.
“.T.R.A.”: How’s this for first cousin to
Captain Flint’s ship :
With one man of her crew alive
That put to sea with seventy-five.
Lying at Sierra Leone recently, as we passed
through, was a three-masted schooner from
South America, which had been brought into
port by two sick men, the sole survivors qf a
crew of 18. ’Flu and the Devil had dished
the rest.
From a Digger in Mesopotamia :
Under British protection Mesopotamia will speedily
come back into its own: with irrigation systems as
suggested by Wilcox, the famous engineer, the valley
between the rivers will blossom into a world’s granary.
By the way, Wilcox had designed certain canals in
connection with his powerful barrage at Hindujah, on
the Euphrates, and when his men commenced excava-
tions they discovered the canal system of the
ancients, which coincided exactly with the scheme
of our own foremost engineer! This Hindujah
barrage is very close to Babylon, where the Germans
had established a museum. It was full of recent
discoveries of great interest; but the Huns skinned
it of the valuable pieces, sending them to Berlin
THE MODEL HUSBAND.
MISTRESS: “But I always thought yours teas a model husband!"
BRIDGET: "Yes, so ’e is, Mum. But not aw or kin' model."
during 1914. In connection with the cultivation
schemes, one thing- brought us joy: a huge dump
was formed at Kut, some 113 miles by rail from Bag-
dad, for the sole purpose of assembling 11. V.
McKay's Australian-made agricultural machines. Old
Haroun-al-ltachid will surely turn in his 1 tomb when
he hears the Sunshine Harvester at work!
“Bad Bill”: My friend the London cross-
ing-sweener is dirty and unkempt, with
grizzly bird’s-nest whiskers. His overcoat
is all tattered, and he holds a broom which
he uses occasionally just to show he is a
IF .
MIMI: “So you live away in the country in
Australia and never 'are a soul to speak
to for weeksf But what a fine chance
you would ’ave to learn ze beautiful
French!"
worker. Actually he is a sort of ragged
bishop with one formula. As you approach,
he raises his withered old right arm. four or
five times, and mutters. “O-ho, O-ho. O-ho.
Gawd bless yer! Gawd bless yer! Gawd
bless yer!” During my two years in London
this morning benediction has cost me £6 17s.
4d. I’m thinking of going in for it myself.
“Cam”: The scream from the “city con-
sulting-room” (B. 20/3/T9) deafens me.
The “stagnant general practitioner” whom
the writer condemns for plodding about
attending to slight ailments in families
year after year is more useful to the
community than the owner of the
scream. Somebody must do the plod-
ding work while he goes off every
five years, to learn how to increase his fees
—and incidentally to be a good doctor. If
he will do my suburban “hack-work” I shall
gladly go off to-morrow and learn the new-
est things I read about, my expenses and
my family’s during my tour of the Euro-
pean clinics being paid for by these alleged
mortgages he charges me with piling up in
my safe. In the meantime we stagnant men
often save our patients from the alert con-
sultant who looks at every case through
the eye of a surgical needle. The commu-
nity, although it sometimes talks about its
old practitioner as “behind the times,” has
a habit of leaning on him in times of stress
and trouble in preference to the brilliant
consultant with the loud voice.
* * * *
One Australian about another:—•
Billy Bantam was on one of the transports
which left Australia early in 1915. In due course
he arrived in Egypt and reinforced the 13th Bat-
talion, which at that time was stationed on the Suez
Canal. Billy soon made himself at home, and before
long had learnt all the different bugle calls; but
none really interested him except the call for
tucker. He was generally the first to arrive at the
mess-hut, where he strolled from table to table, ask-
ing for baksheesh. Some thoughtful Digger, whilst
in Cairo, purchased a small white Egyptian, and in-
troduced her to Billy. It was a case of love at first
sight, and Mr. and Mrs. Billy were very contented
and happy. Mrs. Billy laid a number of eggs. The
Diggers never wasted them. When the A.I.F. moved
to France Billy arrived safely, but his missus died
en route. The widower fretted for a while, but
Fiance seemed to agree with him, and when the
battalion was on the march he would sit on the
Digger,' packs, occasionally giving a hearty crow.
When the troops were billeted in villages Billy would
always challenge the nearest French rooster, and I won
many a franc backing him. For his numerous vic-
tories he was presented with a medal, which was hung
round his neck and inscribed “Billy Bantam, D.C.M.,
of the Fighting Thirteenth.” Fritz hurt me at
Pozieres, and I never rejoined my unit; but Billy
was still going strong when I left.
(Continued on page 18.)
THE UNWILLING VICTIM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Oh, no!” she sez, an’ rounds them baby eyes —
An’ all the while she’s stuffin’ me with lies!
Lord, when 1 think of what a fool I’ve been
It makes me wish to Christ I’d never seen
Her lyin’ face—or never been put wise.
Can’t a tart fool a feller when she tries!
She twists her handkerchief about. .. .an’ sighs....
I put it to her straight: “Do I look greenV”
“Oil, no!” she sez.
Here I am, soakin’ sorrel’ with the flies.
This Love’s the worm they tell us never dies —
I useter wonder what them words could mean,
Rut now I know. An’ she sits all serene
Danglin’ the bait an’ watchin’ if I’ll rise. .. .
“Oh, no!” she sez.
VICTORIA.
SYD. C.


J 9
Ilgilfliip
: ...
111 l
‘ :
.
gl ;
&>*V a&>.- ’- ’ V I&'h -v'v.vf I
4 ' \ • ’
:
'3^
* . si
.. ; v v "
ps£jy§lS
2SRS
88
:
■ll
4
cli
r.
m
wm
m
M
mt
; I
♦v.V
. .
B
; ■■ ■
sfsZ s&H *
. 7 £V
/,
: I
■
i ■
■Mil
■ r
... 1
HI
W&Mz
.; \ . ■•" '
■
MSI
PHSHB
i
—m 11
In “Aussie” and His New STUDEBAKER.
His Own Land and the Car that was Built for Him.
It’s the easiest car in the world to drive, and the most
comfortable to ride in ; and you. feel proud of its handsome
masterful appearance and elegant appointments.
That it is the “easiest car in the world to drive is the highest
compliment that can be paid to the care and study that has
been given to the design and construction of a car.
For though a Studebaker is a car of great power and speed,
the convenience of controj makes you master of the situation
all times.
And such characteristic simplicity has been carried through-
out these cars that these new Studebakers are famous for their
complete accessibility as well as their beauty, economy and
great constructional strength.
The famous L head engine, the newly-designed gear-box
swung on a sub-chassis amidships, the Hotchkiss drive and
spiral bevel differential, are all features as found on the best
Continental cars.
> > >
These NEW 1919 MODELS
are
Four
Light Six
Big' Six
Beautiful in Design
Thoroughly Modern
Mechanically Right
And BUILT FOR AUSTRALIA.
ORDER NOW FOR IMMEDIATE DELIVERY.
THE STUDEBAKER CORPORA!'
AUSTRALASIA LIMITED,
Head Office for Australia: 177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
South Australian Branch : 1 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Turner Bros., 398 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Armstrong C. & M. Agency, Hay Street, Perth.
C. C. & M. A. Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Adams Limited,
Christchurch,
Palmerston North,
Timaru,
Wanganui.


EW
BRINDS
A
g/’OverF ifiy ’
lears’Experiencel
BRIND3
GIN
Try//-
To meet the
demand
TOOHEYS
Have brewed a
Special Stout
Equal to Imported.
TRY IT.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and*
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
For a long time the train had been arriv-
ing later and later at a town in north-west-
ern Vic., bnt one day it came in dead on
time. When they got over the shock the
citizens passed the hat round for the engine-
driver. lie thanked them for their kindly
thought, but protested that he could not
honestly accept the gift. “As a matter of
fact this is yesterday’s train, gentlemen,” he
said.
* * * *
After paying it many visits: —
A great deal has been said about the fact that
some Australian soldiers made a racket at- Colombo,
just as the Almighty once did on a much bigger
scale at Sodom and Gomorrah. The fact is that
Colombo is a place where no crowd of casual, rough-
and-ready, upstanding men, with some of the white
man’s ideas of decency, should be landed for a day’s
run. It is a clearing-house for the vice of Asia.
Jt is the city which lies in wait for the traveller
whose ship looks in going to or coming from Chjna,
India, Europe, Australia or Africa. It lives by lying
in wait, and its weight is short and its lying terrible.
No one who looks like a newcomer can go into a
shop to buy a few cigars without being followed in
by a plausible, discolored wretch who says he is the
agent for that brand of cigar and is legally entitled
to a commission, and lie raises his voice in anguish
if he doesn’t get it. He is simply a street loafer
whom the feeble British Government is unable to
suppress. Everybody is a beggar when the ship
comes in. The whole theory of Colombo is that the
ship is only in for a day, and that the swindled
passenger won’t lose his passage for the sake of
recovering his money. Therefore the rickshaw man,
especially after dark, dives with his passenger
straight for the inmost bowels of the native quarter,
saying that it is a short cut to the place he should
have gone to, and pulls up at the door of Rahab, who
intimates that inside there are the girls of 10
different countries. Probably there is only one
decayed girl. The flabby Administration can do
nothing with Rahab. At Manila the Yankees built
a special quarter for the lady, with wide streets and
detached houses, all alike but all of a peculiar pat-
tern, and it put the lady there under the strictest
supervision. If caught outside she is either fined
or boiled. But in Colombo she is like Solomon’s
wind which bloweth where it listeth. The persist-
ence of the Colombo parasite makes the leech look
MISPLACED.
HUBBY: “The Professor says I have some
lovely notes in my voice!”
W IFEY: “I’d much prefer you had them in
your pocket!”
fleeting and unreliable. I once walked on a hot day
all the long miles from Mount Lavinia to the Galle
Face Hotel to try the endurance of a vagabond who
had already watched me for two hours through the
window of the Mount Lavinia pub, waiting to show
me the house where some Boer prisoners lived on
parole. When I reached my destination after two
hours the parasite was still stepping softly a yard
behind me crying out for money, and with him
were six other parasites who had accumulated on the
way and who demanded payment for an alleged
cocoanut supplied. The futile authorities know no
remedy for this sort of persecution. Any returned
soldier who had lost his temper fighting the flies in
Palestine is apt to knock out some of these people
and put his boot through the brittle parts of their
premises. The place should be spread with fly-
paper to catch the inhabitants, and then the paper
ought to be drowned. Sodom, which was Colombo
in a mild form, was drowned without fly-paper.
NOT ON THE PERMANENT STAFF.
"I say, your dad doesn’t seem very enthusi-
astic about me.”
“No, he isn’t; but I told him he’d have
to put up with you until the boys come
back.”
The knackers are raising dust-clouds at the
rear of the old G.'P.O., Elizabeth-street,
Melbourne. The building which formerly
housed the parcel-post branch, the telegraph
workshops, the engme-room and (latterly)
the Censor’s staff, is coming down, and an
up-to-date telegraph operating-room is to
arise from the ruins. But while this goes
on at the rear, the tin shanty known as the
Central Telegraph Office still crouches un-
disturbed on the valuable corner of Eliza-
beth-street and Post Office Place.
* * * *
The presentation of Australian opals to
Lady Stanley by Red Cross people recalls
the fuss that took place 30 years ago over
a much more pretentious gift to Lady Loch.
The wealthy lower orders, who man-
aged the affair, ordered diamonds
in Paris, which a relative of the
departing Governor’s wife was in-
duced to select. The gaud was
sent to Victoria in the Agent-
General’s box with despatches and
other things. J. B. Patterson, who
was then Minister for Customs in
the Gillies-Dealdn Coalition, could
see no reason why tfje rich, when they
made a present to their friends,
should escape duty while for the poor
there was no escape; and he insisted
on payment. The' committee, which
had spent all or nearly all the money
collected, fought hard, and
Governor Loch tendered his
own cheque to end the un-
pleasant discussion. That
shamed others into part-
ing, and the duty was paid
without recourse to the Governor’s pocket.
* * * *
The postal arrangements of Governor
King’s day would have seemed a bit crude
even to Webster’s post office. When King
made an agreement with Robert Campbell
about a cargo of cows from India, it was
arranged that the master of Campbell’s ves-
sel should send a boat on shore at Sea
Elephant Bay, on King Island, and look
for a letter in a bottle hung to the rafters
of the largest hut there. This would tell
him the port in Bnss Straits or Van Die-
men’s Land which his Ex. wanted the
cows to be landed.
“A.E.Y.”: Mick had his fling in Havre
and was taking the consequences in No. 2
F.P. Each day the newest batch of men on
their way to London for a fortnight’s fur-
lough passed, wreathed in smiles, down the
road where Mick plied his pick and shovel.
Mick began to put in more time thinking.
At the end of a week he paraded to the
C.O. with a request for special furlough for
the purpose of getting married in London;
and, as this was then in favor, he got it.
So Mick passed down the
road, too, arrayed in all
his glory. If you know
Mick well you will have
guessed that he had no in-
tention of getting married
at all. He was simply
after a high old time. He
had it. When he returned
the police-sergeant smiled
slyly, and, calling Mick to
one side, intimated that he
was to parade to the C.O.
Mick stood to attention
and stared down
the colonel" with a
calm inno cen c e
that completely
disar me d that
genial old gentle-
rhan. Said the
0.0. politely: “I
am informed that
you have just had
10 days’ special
leave to marry in
England, and it. is
my duty to get
proof of your mar-
ria g e. Mick
looked like a man
who has just been
torn by the inexorable
talons of Fate, but was
bravely bearing it, and
made reply: “She died, sir.
She was on the Blanksliire
when it was torpedoed the
day I was to meet her at
the docks as she arrived
from Ireland. And I have
been staying with her parents to try to
console them.” As Mick walked out with
the sympathetic words of the kind old gentle-
man in his ears the sergeant noticed the
black band of crepe on his arm, and grinned.
“Vou deserve it,” he said.
“0.L.”: With a pen dipped in honey a
writer (B. 6/3/’l9) describes Dr. Robert-
son, chairman of the Vic. Board of Health,
as “the last man to be disturbed by adverse
criticism,” and one who remains unvexed by
the suggestion that he isn’t the right mail
for the job. I don’t know Robertson, though
I. have thought a lot about him at various
times, and I have often wondered if he
minded criticism. Long ago I came to the
same conclusion as the amiable commentator
• —that Robertson really doesn’t give a d —n.
Still, considering the yast
number of health-abuses which
exist to-day in Victoria—
among them the extraordinary
administration of the pure-
food laws, the dust nuisance
in Melbourne and the innum-
erable drainage-horrors in the
outer suburbs and the country
towns —placidity appears a
dreadful quality in the State’s
health-guardian. Victoria
needs a kicker, who would
sooner kick himself out of his
billet than remain undisturbed
when the Government won’t
give his Board the power to
clean up, or supply an ample
force of inspectors to carry
out the laws already made.
For three years, to take a
concrete instance of the
Board’s way of not doing
things, I- have been agitating
to have my street made, for
health reasons. It took two
years’ correspondence before
the Board finally advised me
that it could do nothing what-
ever—neither to abate the
nuisance of local street cess-
pools nor to push the district
city-fathers into action—and
another year passed before I
got the municipality to notice
the smells and make the road,
at my own and the neighbors’
expense, of course. Placidity
in the head of such a mooch-
mg, meandering body as the Board doesn’t
appeal to me as a desirable attribute, for
too many uncontrolled stinks go with it.
* * * *
Hobart World’s 32-point scare-headings
leaped across the cable page on March 10 to
announce that the casualties in the Cana-
dicin soldiers little row in the demobilisation
camp at Rhyl were 527 killed and 2573
wounded. It remained for the editor-in-chief
to add the finishing touch to the gigantic
tragedy; so the awful figures received a
further airing in the leader-column. Next
morning, tucked away in a cosy corner, the
explanation appeared :—•
The uncoded message read: “Variously estimated
five twenty seven killed twenty five seventy three
wounded.” A possible interpretation, which appa-
rently was the right one, was: “It is variously
estimated that between five and 27 were killed,
and between (25 and 73 wounded.” Fortunately,
the official explanation of the incident has com-
pletely discounted these large estimates of casual-
ties.
The local Mercury describes the error in
interpretation as “inexcusable,” and the edi-
torial comment as something worse; but, of
course, the Mercury is in this case the Rep-
tile Contemporary. Still, the paper does
seem to have achieved a World’s record.
The National Bank has been up against
tlie difficulty, familiar in South Aus., of get-
ting an appeal decision in the Supreme Court
of that State. There are only three Judges,
and one of them being the Judge who gave
the decision appealed against, either lie has
to change his mind, which is not usual, or
his two colleagues have both to pronounce
that he was wrong. When the case of Paul
Joseph came up—the parson who deposited
the deeds of his church with the bank, get-
ting large sums for building purposes, but
making (as is admitted) no profit for him-
self—Josiali Symon, K.C., was able to per-
suade Judge Buchanan that the bank had
the rights of the matter. But Piper, K.C.,
had arguments which induced Judge Gordon
to concur with Chief Justice Murray, and
he still thought that the church was in the
right, as lie had already ruled. Appeal dis-
missed: costs against the bank again, but
time given it to consider whether it will go
on to a. higher court. ,
“0.L.” : French missioned Thomsen, speak-
ing in pained tones’ of the “Chinese German”
art-standards adopted by some Australian
furniture-men in making up local timbers,
touched a spot which needs a poultice.
Excellent and well-built copies of “period”
furniture are to-day being turned out by some
reputable makers; but the misuse of such
models is becoming a- dreadful business.
Wealthy Chinese makers think nothing of
substituting “square stuff” for the carved
legs of a Jacobean sideboard, putting in plain
panels instead of the richer effects of the
true style, using imitation French-polish in-
stead. of a dull finish, calling the result
“semi-Jacobean” and marketing it at a large
discount on the price of a good copy. The
brummagem French-polishing is in itself a
swindle. This polish may be reliably tested
by breathing on the article. If the circle of
moisture vanishes almost immediately, the
polish is genuine. If it goes off slowly, the
final polish has been attained without a pro-
per “spiriting-off ' of the oil, and the surface
will presently crack and become dull. How-
ever, so. long as the t.p. man can get a rela-
te V e^ T high price for bastard “quick-sellers,”
finished with a cheap, eye-catching polish
PHYSIOLOGY.
NURSE: “If that ballet had struck you in
the left side instead of the right it would
have gone clean through your heart."
BILLJIM: “My oath, it wouldn't; me ’ eart
was up in me mouth."
that will last six months in all its false bril-
liance, Thomsen’s words of wisdom will go
for little.
COOGEE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
On the beach at Coogee Bay
Shapely girls drift to. and fro,
Flecked with colors warm and gay.
On the beach at Coogee Bay.
All the world seems good to-day,
As I watch the ebb and flow
On the beach at Coogee Bay,
Shapely girls drift to and fro.
Cares and clothes are flung aside,
Near the lazy, summer sea ;
Laughter comes in rising tide,
Cares and clothes are flung aside.
Clouds are gone, the world is wide.
Wave-kist faces smile at me;
Cares and clothes are flung aside
Near the lazy, summer sea.
K.B.W.
NORMAN CAMPBELL.


• ■•■•■•■•IRKS
mm m m
imh
. ■
Mag
■
I
F
mmssm
i
3
mm
i
■■R
illl
26
i 2
-1
■*'•
"■
Hi
m' m • • a a »
mmmmmm ■ • • » ®
Mi!
THE NEW
SYDNEY
PREMISES
OF
Barnet Glass
Rubber Co. Ltd.
Founders of the Rubber Industry in Australasia
124-126-128 Castlereagh Street
(Previously occupied by Messrs. Bennett & Barkell).
Manufacturers of Every Description of Motor,
Motor-cycle, Motor Lorry and Vehicle Tyres, all
Classes of Ebonite Goods, Garden Hose, Engine
Packing, Jointing, Belting and all Domestic and
Mechanical Rubber Goods,
Also at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Launceston,
Hobart, Christchurch, Auckland, N.Z.


AVIATION.
New South Wales School of Aviation, Richmond.
T_T ITHERTO the facilities of the New South Wales School of Aviation at Richmond have been utilised
solely for the training of pilots for war purposes. The need for these has passed with the suspension of
hostilities. It has now become possible to train men who are interested in Aviation privately or wish to
engage in it commercially. It has, therefore, been decided that for the future the Aviation School shall
be carried on as a branch school of the Technical Education Department, providing two separate courses
of instruction —one for Pilots and the other for Mechanics.
The course of training for Pilots will cover a period of not more "than 13 weeks, and students will
receive practical instruction in flying, the principles of aviation and practical instruction in adjustments.
The Mechanics’ course has been specially designed for those who are gaining experience
in one or other of the various trades connected with engineering or woodworking, and who wish to become
aviation mechanics. These students will be given instruction in the adjustment and maintenance of
aeroplanes, and will have special instruction in engine work and rigging.
The Mechanics’ class will be carried on so as to enable students to get the instruction by either
attending on two week afternoons or for a full day on Saturdays, the latter provision being intended to
meet the special case of apprentices who can get off from their work on Saturday mornings. The
latter course will commence at 10.45 a.m. and will last till 5 p.m., and the afternoon courses will be
from 2.30 to 0 p.m. ir>. Summer and 2.30 to 5 p.m. in the Winter. All these times have been made to
suit Railway Time-tables.
Persons desirous of availing themselves of either of these courses of instruction should apply to
the Superintendent, Technical College, Ultimo, where full particulars as to fees, etc., may be obtained.
JAMES NANGUE,
Superintendent of Technical Education.
3b48.
SPANISH INFLUENZA.
All medical men recommend a searching antiseptic, and
NAZETHA
fulfils this requirement. Obtainable from all chemists for 1/6, and no
one should fail to protect themselves at this time of epidemic.
NAZETHA
The Great Cold Cure in the Little Bottle.
A. P. Miller & Son, Chemists, Hobart.
* [i
POLITICAL
POINTS
The position which is developing by reason
of the “dai'g” system in the N.S.W. South
Coast collieries is that the mines may shut
up unless the men consent to accept more
wages.
In the hotly-fought Petersham by-election
for the X. S. Wales Assembly the majority
decided that it was full up of both parties.
Of 12.259 on the roll only 5195 voted. Sh 1-
iington, the successful Nationalist, nomi-
nally represents one-fifth of the electors. As
a matter of fact, probably three-fifths of
his 2600 would rather have had somebody
else. But half a dozen men. meeting in a
cellar, decided that Shillingtoii had a good
chance of winning, being a returned soldier,
so they made him the National candidate,
and then the anti-Labor sheep were expected
A DANGEROUS
CHARACTER.
“All speeches at the
opening of the Sinn Fein
Parliament were delivered
in Gaelic; they were also
brief ones, largely owing
to the fact that most of
the speakers were but im-
perfectly acquainted with
the language.”
HE (very shocked at discovery): “So you
and your brother are both Sinn
Feiners? Maybe you've got a bomb in
your pockets at the present moment!"
SHE: “ Indade . no. It takes me all my time
studying a little bit of Erse to know
what they're up to."
to come into the National fold just as Bob-
ton himself will be expected to vote Yes when
he is told to. If he doesn’t, the half-dozen
people in the cellar won’t choose him next
time; and he knows it. And that is demo-
cratic of the
people by the people! No wonder the people
are sick of the swindle. If those who be-
lieve in political action don’t introduce
other methods, the 0.8. U. will appeal to
steadily increasing numbers.
When the financial plungers
of this country talk sapiently
about the need for caution in
aerial navigation and the waste-
fulness of hasty experiment,
they overlook the fact that it is
very cheap experiment —if a
thing that has developed so far
can be called experiment. An
experimental or preliminary air
service connecting all Australia’s
big cities could be established
for half the money spent last
month on building bits of back-
block railways which aren’t
really expected to pay. A big
new thing of the financial
dimensions of a peevish python
should be approached with cau-
tion, but this business of creep-
ing with infinite care and waste
of time on a grasshopper lest the
animal should be loaded is a jest.
Melbourne Trades Hall
Council is taking a plebiscite of
delegates to decide whether the
executive shall “proceed at once
with the agitation for a 40-hour
week.” A more sensible cam-
paign would be for the general
application of the eight-hour
principle, which isn’t by any
means universal yet. But the
trouble would be to get the 44-
hour men to spend their time
and money on the betterment
of the people who toil several
hours longer. “Solidarity” is a
blessed word, but it doesn’t
count for much when the 13s. carpenter is
asked for three ha’pence a week to help the
2d.-an-hour whiteworker.
In the purchase of foods and groceries
what you could get for 10s. in 1911 cost, as
an average throughout Australia, 11s. 7d. in
July, 1914, and 16s. sd. last month. Since
July, 1914, the increase, according to
Knibbs’s figures, has been greatest in
Queensland (61.6 p.c.), and next-greatest
in N. S. Wales (46.8 p.c.). In Vic. it has
been 40.7 p.c. The foods and groceries
that cost 11s. 6d. in N. S. Wales in 1914
cost 17s. Id. now; what cost 10s. Sd. in
Queensland then cost 17s. 4d now. In S.
Aus., Westralia and Tasmania the increase
has been least; in Westralia it has been only
one-fifth as great as in Queensland and one-
fourth as great as in N. S. Wales. In the
Eastern States paper and other loan money
has been flung around wholesale, and this
has disturbed values, creating a fictitious
prosperity. In Queensland other factors
are at work, labor having taken the bit in
its teeth and bolted.
“M.F.” : Apropos the removal of German
manufacturing firms to the U.S.A.,
Switzerland, etc., and their attempt
to re-open business relations with
Australia. Some of these businesses
are camouflaged, and the readiest
way to learn the truth about them
ought to be through the nearest
British consul. But,- the British
consular service was a screaming
farce before the war. Some time
ago an Australian merchant wrote
to the British consul at an impor-
tant town in Spain asking for in-
formation about reliable cork man-
ufacturers. After an almost end-
less delay a reply came, signed by
somebody with a German name. To
do him justice he didn’t recommend
a German firm, as so many of them
did ; but he had. he said, written to
the Chamber of Commerce in Lon-
don and got the required particulars from
that body.
The closing-order made by the Military
Commandant of S. Aus. against nine subur-
ban hotels, which were supposed to have
served invalid soldiers with liquor, was with-
drawn after four days. The Commandant
wrote to the Licensed Victuallers’ Ass. that
he showed this leniency at its request, and
in the belief that the lesson intended had
been taught. On the question of the evidence
available against the nine, he added cheer-
fully
The law does not provide for the collection of anv
evidence, and, as a matter of fact, should the prox'-
imity of a hotel to a hospital or military depot, in
the opinion of the Commandant, render such a course
advisable, it may be closed, as has often been done
in other districts, without any irregularities'oT any
sort having occurred.
As The Bulletin has remarked once or
twice already, it is about time this country
got back to ordinary legal methods. The
maintenance of a military system under
which a man's business can be closed with-
out evidence being taken that it is prejudi-
eial to the public good is a scandal in peace-
time,
** Repat” : The Niagara, with its own and
the Makura’s European and American ma Is,
arrived in Sydney first thing on Tuesday
morning. VYe got off. after passing through
quarantine, on Saturday. At that time some
of the letters which we brought were still
undelivered; in fact, about a thousand bags
THE MAN-EATER.
“With the restoration of normal conditions
strong opposition to the Commonwealth line of
steamers is expected from shipping combines.”
Cable.
were still on the ship. The postal people sent
the launch Premier for the 6000 bags of mail
matter. This Premier is a poor little tub,
which can take about 400 bags at a time.
With a boat fit for the service the mails
could have been unloaded in 44 hours. They
should all have been delivered in Sydney by
Wednesday morning at latest, which
would have allowed the English portion
to be x-eplied to on Thursday. That out-
going mail was, of course, missed in most
cases; and the delivery was dawdled along
till Saturday. Having been thoroughly
dragooned during the war, it seems that
this country will now put up with any-
thing.
The Labor party was in power in N. S.
Wales for six years, most of the time with
an overwhelming majority ; and, when it had
the power to do things, it did nothing at all
to abolish the Leg. Council, though it had
been pledged to this from the beginning.
Now, when it isn’t in a position to do any-
thing but gnash its teeth, it gnashes them
terribly. The party's neglect in regard to
the Council was infamous. It blames
profiteering for the species of Bolshevism
which has taken root in Australia ; actually
it is itself to blame, inasmuch as it did
nothing to sweep away the one thing that
stands between the people and self-govern-
ment and thus gave the One Big Union a
pretext for its attack on political methods.
“Driver” : This is how the border quaran-
tine works. I live within 60 yards of the
bridge between Wahgunyah (Vic.) and
Corowa (N.S.W.), and, with four others,
am employed on the train running from the
border to Springhurst (Vic.). I am
forbidden to cross into N. S. Wales.
Yesterday a special train , ran from
Wahgunyah to Springhurst to take alleged
sportsmen and horses to Springhurst
races. There must have been fully
70 people on board from N. S. Wales.
These visitors spent the day on the Vic-
torian course. Night came and the N. S.
Wales contingent returned by special to
Wahgunyah. I waited at the Murray
Bridge to see how their luck was for getting
across. The constable in charge passed the
lot! Later on I tried my luck, but John
said, “No; you run to Springhurst, outside
the 10-mile radius.” “Well, what about
the race crowd?” “Oh,” said the represen-
tative of the might and majesty of N. S.
Wales, “I have instructions to let them
pass.” Whose instructions, and why?
Two proposals to be seriously considered
at the Vic. Railway LTnion conference in
May are “owmership and control of the rail-
ways by the railway employees,” and “sup-
port of the One Big Union movement.”
The two go together naturally. The Aus-
tralian railways are owned first by the
persons—big capitalists, savings bank de-
positors and so on—who lent money to build
them, and, second, by the people in general.
The new proposal is that both these
crowds be thrown out, and the £230,000,00(1
worth of property (face value) he handed
over to about 92.000 employees. This sug-
gests a joyous robbery of all workers who
are not railway employees, as they will
lose their share in the national property.
Doubtless it is intended by the “advanced"
spirits that, after the “capitalists” are
cleaned out, the best organised workers
shall plunder the less organised, but it is
surely damfoolishness to begin talking
about it so soon.
Cobar, which is at the end of a very long
railway, closes temporarily because copper is
under a cloud. So the line becomes a huge
loss. When the mines are exhausted Cobar
will close permanently, for it will then be
simply poor sheep country, and the line will
be a loss for all time. A railway which
depends wholly on a mining field is very
temporary, and if it is built with loan money
the loan should be paid off out of revenue
inside 10 or 20 years. The idea of charging
posterity for a “permanent and reproduc-
tive” road to a bubble is sheer swindle.
From a speech (almost any speech) by B.
C. Olde. Labor candidate for Petersham
(J*S.W.) ;
When the Labor party is in power there will be no
need for preference (o returned soldiers. We will be
prepared to find work for every one of them and
every other person who requires employment.
Olde’s party was in full power in Olde’s
State from October, 1910, to November,
1910. Between 1910 and 1914 it raised
the annual loan expenditure from £3,246,640
to £9,120,844 and supplied artificial employ-
ment for, say, 25,000 persons and their
families by charging the bill to posterity.
At the same time the applications for work
at, the /State Bureau increased from 2696 in
1912 to 17,502 in 1916, and in the last three
years the proportion for whom work was
found grew steadily smaller. Even the in-
credible loan expenditure failed. There was
some increase of manufactures under the
Labor-loan regime—some increase in Sydney,
that is, where the loans were being distri-
buted. In 1916, the last year of Labor
Government, there were 7773 more people
employed in Sydney industries than in 1911.
Labor’s first complete year, and 4 (four)
more in all the rest of the State. Either
Olde’s party knows how to find work for
everybody and wouldn’t do it when it had
the chance, or else it doesn’t know and Olde
is a seeker after a paid billet under false
pretences. Until the country has a great
many more self-supporting industries’ the
promise of payable work for all and sundry
is the patter of charlatans.
DREAMS AND SHADOWS.
P UCK: "I’ll put a girdle round the earth in
forty minutes.”—“A Midsummer Night's
Dream.”
ESCORT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We came up with morning, through the portals of
the South,
With the North Atlantic speaking in our funnel-stay ;
Felt the touch of England like a kiss upon the mouth
When the lean destroyers came a-'driving through the
spray,
The little lean destroyers,
llis Majesty’s destroyers,
Three days out to meet us when the dawn was break-
ing grey.
Fifty days from Wellington, twining like a snake!
Woollens for the soldier-man and copper for the shell!
“Bully!” quoth the iong destroyer loafing in our
wake;
“London has the heart of hearts, and she will greet
you well,”
Trolled the gay destroyers,
His Majesty’s destroyers,
Prinking up to windward there or roaring down the
swell.
Cross the bows and back again, lurching through the
sea;
Gowned in grey-green gossamer that billows from
their hips—•
Half a dozen ’way to port, seven more a-lee!
“Seaway on the English seas for the English ships!”
Sang tiie slim destroyers,
His Majesty’s destroyers,
Rioting up the Channel with the foam upon their lips.
“Yonder are the Dover c-lifi's, showing white as chalk;
Far enough is far enough—give you time o’ day !
Carry on and straight ahead, like a lovers’ walk ;
Best regards to London town when you’re up that
way,”
Said the pert destroyers,
His Majesty's destroyers,
Turning on their silver heels and dancing to the bay.
ENGLAND.
BOYCE BOWDEN.
BOGGED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Yesterday's conference in Sydney between thf
Premier and the Farmers and Settlers’ Assoeiatior
made practically no progress towards healing the rift
between the Nationalists and the Association."
They made no progress. Ankle-deep in ruts
The old coach sticks within the clammy mire.
They try to lever it with “ifs” and “buts,”
Yet cannot get the thing two inches higher.
It was a great old coach in ancient days.
Oft have we seen it at the peep of dawn,
Its smug, fat driver in a sleepy haze,
By large majorities to triumph'drawn.
Sometimes it came, with heavy lurch and slow,
Back from the pawnshop, freighted deep with gold.
And by the driver’s smile we seemed to know
That once again Australia had been sold.
And now the wheels are stuck so very deep
One team can never pull them from the mire;
The other team, which holds a vantage cheap,
Stands off and bargains shrewdly for its hire.
s.s.w.
GEORGE STREET.


Stetson
The
World’s
Best
Hat
for
Men.
35-
w
'S'
Stetson
The
World’s
Best
Hat
for
Men.
35
John B. Stetson
—Maker of the Best in Hats.
In every line there must be a leader —one who by sheer meiit
has forged to the top and by sheer merit has kept there. In
the hat world the name J. B. Stetson stands for the 100 per
cent. hat. It is the world’s best, chosen and worn by men
who appreciate longer-tlian-nsual service and better-than-good
style. One does not buy a Stetson hat —one invests in a
Stetson hat.
Stitched Brim: Slate, Black, Brown, Greys.
Cut Edge: Slate, Black, Brown, Greys, Fawn, Navy.
If you cannot call to choose your size, send your order to
Desk J.
Price, 35|-
Murdoch’s in Park St. Ltd.
“Complete Outfitters for Men and Boys.” SYDNEY.
FIBROL
ASSS3L
f:
&
JA
UStC
Cr. WYNYARD & YORK STREETS, SYDNEY,
Also at 581-3 Little Collins Street, Melbourne,
and 30 Currie Street, Adelaide.
. Means Clear-cut Savings
to Every Home Builder.
In new buildings time is saved by using Fibrolite, for
carpenters can apply it as soon as the studding is ready.
No need to wait for lathers, then for plasterers, then for
plaster to dry, and finally for wall-paperers. You can put
Fibrolite up at any season of the year.
Hardie s Fibrolite
is all pure Australian Asbestos Cement in 6trong, sturdy
panels. Fibrolite contains no paper refuse or other vegetable
matter, therefore will not rot or decay. It improves with
age. Fibrolite is fire-retardant, weather- and white-ant-
proof.
If you desire to have walls that last as long as the building,
then you will, be satisfied with Fibrolite.
Its first cost is low, and it is cheapest in the long run.
Fibrolite costs two-thirds less to paint than weatherboard (if
painting is desired), and it is far cheaper and more
economical than weatherboard.
Fibrolite is absolutely permanent. _ It cannot crack. It
never chips or crumbles, and there is no danger of falling
walls or ceilings.
To learn all the advantages of this modern, low-cost building
material, fill in and mail the attached coupon to-day.
Please forward me, without charge or obligation,
booklet showing the advantages of using Fibrolite.
Name
Address
Bulletin.
10-INCH
DOUBLE-SIDED
BRITISH-MADE
12-INCH
DOUBLE-SIDED
from
3/-e<ich
N.Z. from 3/6
from
5/-e&ch
N.Z. from 5/6.
Some Splendid
COLUMBIA Records
from the Latest Lists.
12-inch PINK LABEL, Single-sided, 15/- each.
74039. “Bell Song-Ou va la Jeune . Htadone' ’
74040—11 Trovatore: “Tacea La notte plaeida” “How Peaceful was the
(Verdi.) In Italian. With Orchestra iasd 151 ’
12-inch PURPLE LABEL, Single-sided, 7/6 each.
7170—The Old Folks at Home (S. C. Foster/ Key
7166 Love’s Old, Sweet Song (J. L. Molloy). Ivey
7169-Daddy (A. H. Behrend). Key F. (Harold Crn^ a^e P^ a ) But t, contralto.
7163—Faust: “Dio Possente”—“Even Bravest Heart”— (GOTnodi.^^Hv^ltalian^^Whh
Orchestra
7167 — Tannhauser: “O Star of Eve’’ (Wagner). V itli Casals, ’Cellist.
7159—T0m Bowling (Dibdin). With Orchestra Ken D.nns,
12-inch LIGHT BLUE LABEL, Double-sided, 6/- each.
The Devil’s Trill from DevU’s Sonata” Sammons> vio lin.
Romance., in G Major (J. Svend sen ).
1,1229
( Angels’ Serenade (Serenata). (Braga.) With violin obligato by A. Sammons.
[ln Love (Hermann Lolir). F. B. Kiddle at the piano.
t t i 4. TB ;c r\ cil 1 ton Of.
1,1216
■ a
( Granados’ Spanish Dances—-No. 5. “Allegretto
{Catalonia Suite Populaire (Albemz).
quasi moderato.”
Cl i XT nnfir W nn<Vs
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR “COLUMBIA” RECORDS-
SYDNEY N.S.W.—Grafonola, Ltd., DakingHouse. Itawson Place
MELBOURNE, VIC., and TASMANIA. Messrs. Hugo Werthenn Ptj ~
Ltd., 173 William Street, Melbourne.
BRISBANE, Q. —King and King, Ltd., Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A. —Cornell, Ltd., 121 Pirie Street.
Customs
WELLINGTON, N.Z.— Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakeflebl & 'eii Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.—Weble.v Sons & Gofton, Ltd., ~43 H)„h Street.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.— Webley Sons & Gofton, Ltd.
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.
TOOTAL
C LOTH
The Guaranteed Velvet Fabric
CORD AND PLAIN.
This popular fabric has n that
rich silk-velvet effect that is so
necessary to the present simplicity
of dress. Its lustrous depth of
color gives a wealth of light and
shade that enhances the simplest
lines and saves much trimming.
From no other material can you
obtain the same durable elegance
at such moderate cost.
Order Tootal Cloth for
Costumes Home Frocks
Visiting Gowns Evening Frocks
Evening Wraps Children’s Wear
THE SEASON’S FABRIC
For heavy Wrap Coats, hard outdoor
wear, and children’s clothes, Corded
Tootal Cloth has no rival.
Always see name on selvedge.
Sold by Drapers and Stores .
Ek
mrpmß
These goods assure
satisfaction in color,
wash, and wear. Their
guaranteed quality
has made their popu-
larity wo r 1 d-w id e.
SEE NAME ON SELVEDGE.
TOOTAL CLOTH:
The Guaranteed Velvet
Fabric, equal to silk
velvet for graceful dra-
ping. Rich colors that
will not rub off. In plain
and Cord. 27 inches
wide.
TARANTULLE
(Regd.) : The quality
Cotton Fabric for Lin-
gerie and Baby-wear.
In three weights—4o
inches wide.
NAMRIT: The Indeli-
ble Voile. In printed
designs and self-colors.
40 ins. wide.
TOOTAL SHIRTINGS
for men and women.
Indelible colors. 32 ins.
wide.
LISSUE HANDKER-
CHIEFS (Regd.) for
ladies. Dainty exquisite
self-white and indelible
color border designs.
Lissue label on each.
PYRAMID HAND-
KERCHIEFS (Regd.)
for men. Correct self-
white and exclusive
indelible color border
designs. Label on each,
TOBRALCO (Regd.) :
The Cotton Wash-dress
Fabric in world - wide
use. Self-white and in-
delible colors. 27/28 ins.
wide.
TOOTAL PIQUE:
White and indelible
colors. 43/44 ins. wide.
ALL COMMUNICATIONS TO:-
MELBOURNE, G.P.0., BOX 1035.
■’ »
TOOTAL BROADHURST LEE CO., LTD., MANCHESTER. ENGLAND


WHAT DOCTORS PRESCRIBE FOR
INDIGESTION.
Physicians who have specialised in the
treatment of stomach troubles are naturally
in a position to judge intelligently as to the
best thing to use. It is therefore a matter
of interest to those who suffer from indiges-
tion, gastritis, dyspepsia, pain after eating,
heartburn, etc., to learn that physicians who
have devoted their lives to the alleviation of
human suffering are more and more instruct-
ing these sufferers to get a package of
Bisurated Magnesia from the chemist and
take a ha If-teaspoonful in a little hot water
immediately after eating or whenever pain
is felt. Doctors who prescribe Bisurated
Magnesia do so because they know it gives
quick relief in nearly every instance—be-
cause it is not a secret remedy, and because
no ill-effect follows its use. For, these
reasons sufferers from dyspepsia, indigestion
and stomach troubles generally are strongly
advised to get a package of Bisurated Mag-
nesia from their nearest chemist and begin
its use -without delay.—Advt.
If any illustration app.aring in
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you priceMor it.
SPORTINC
CARTRIDGES
Our Special Offer.
The Celebrated
SOVEREIGN, 21/- per 100
SMOKELESS, 20/6 per 100 —in 500 lots
CARTRIDGE, 20/- per 100—m woo lots.
This is the finest smokeless cartridge made.
12-Gauge, loaded, double-chilled shot, and
Nobel's Empire Smokeless Powder.
Shot Nos. 2,3, 4,5, 6, 8 and 10.
We have the largest stocks in .Victoria
of Winchester, Remington and Dominion
Cartridges. Send for special list.
McEWAN’S,
Melbourne’s Busiest Hardware Store,
119-125 Elizabeth St, Melbourne.
A Signal Sisecsg§
Kmg^eorgel?
wsiiai
UteTOP-NOTCHScoteh
,
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
THIRTY-THREE PER CENT.,
ANYHOW.
COUSIN JACK: ” ’Ow’s thy son get tin ’ on,
Cap’n, what thee heddicated to be
doctor?”
CAP'N: “Braave an’ fine. ’E ’ad his first
maternity case last week,”
COUNSIN JACK: “ ’Ow ’st ’ce got on wid un?”
CAP'N: “Well, the mother and the cheel
died: but ’e ’are great ’opes of saving
the faather.”
“Dugout” : For the post-boring champion-
ship I’ll select Roy Scott, of Bathurst. Commencing
at 6 a.m. and ceasing at 6 p.in., with the usual
breaks and smokos, he bored 213 green-gum posts
with six holes to each post. The boring depth rf
each slab was 3jin., and the job was carried out
with the one five-eighths bit.
“FY7”: Here’s my throw. All boom-
erangs, even the almost right-angled comeback, were
used as striking weapons. Another use, not men-
tioned so far, was for warding off the adversary’s
spears. You find this idea of the striking boomer-
ang elaborated as you go north, till in Central
Bananaland the weapon becomes a sword, with a
handle at one end of its three-foot length. Still
further north it has grown the five-foot heela-
man of heavy wood, used with both hands. In
skilled hands this weapon can cut as if it were
made of steel. Other boomerangs of Central and
North Bananaland are the lil-lil and the beaked
weapon. The first is much like the ordinary war
boomerang, but one end broadens out into a circular
disc some six inches in diameter on the inner side
of the curve. The second has a beak like a pick-
axe projecting from one end, on the outer curve this
time and about one-third the length of the handle.
All the above, with the exception of the five-foot
heelaman, could be thrown as well as used in the
hands.
“Azac”: For two or three clays prior to
the recent big rain I noticed a nest of little black
ants in my front garden feverishly moving
their furniture and food under the verandah. But
though the ant is a mighty fine weather prophet,
I'm willing to back the “triantelope” in a cham-
pionship contest. Before rain—sometimes 24 hours
before —they commence to crawl up the inside walls
of your tent and take shelter under the sloping roof.
You can’t get rid of them until the rain has passed
away. In the homestead the hairy prophet comes
from behind the skirting-board, or from between
the slabs constituting the walls, and slowly ascends
to the ceiling. The drought’s as good as over then.
* * c *
“Frank R.”: Re the painted skulls that
“Wangi” (B. 13/2/’l9) found, on an island in Torres
Strait. Some years back 1 found skulls on several
islands and each had a different colored band painted
across it, according to locality. If the mark had not
been placed on the skulls there was nothing to pre-
vent a native from an adjoining island stealing a
few and returning to his own push with the boast
that the heads had fallen to his spear. The abo.
who wandered over the waters in his canoe and re-
turned after many days with a stack of skulls belong-
ing to the victims he had slain was considered a big
pot, and the choicest pieces of turtle, dugong and
wallaby (when a visit was made to the mainland)
were reserved for his refreshment. Even his wife
took an interest in him, which seems to conceal a
moral in it for the consideration of white brother.
“Billy T.”: Swinnerton, the smith at Five
Mile, was discarding on the cun-
ning of the • lower animals, more
especially the preternatural guile ot
the horse. “Few ftllers knows the
horse through and through, but
I'm dealing with em day after day,
and there ain’t much about horses
1 ain’t got on to. All horses is
sly, but piebald horses is the sly-
est of all, barrin’ skewbalds. It
was a piebald played off the confi-
dence trick 'on me. I rAig-ht ha’
known he was a take-down by the
sly eye of-him, but 1 ain’t one. of
them suspicious blokes. The horse
was standin’ et me forge door when
1 come to open up on the Monday
rnornin’, ’n’ there was a note tied
to his forelock: ‘Give him a full
set of light shoes, then turn him
loose ’n’ bill me.’ Signed ‘Arthur
Prat.’ Well, everyone knows Arthur
Prat. He owns Mount Cloud V
he’s richer than Broken Hill. I
done a lot of work for him one
time or another. So X gets down
to it, ’n’ fits that piebald with a
set. Then I heads him for Prat’s,
gives him a slap on the rump ’n’
off he trots. That’s all right so
far as it goes, but when 1 sends in
my bill to Prat he cuts the horse-
shoein’ job out, ’n’ says he never
owned a piebald ’n’ never would,
it’s a fact: that piebald wasn’t
Prat’s, ’n’ of course I never saw
him again. That’ll tell you the
low cunnin’ of piebalds. He’d
worked a delibrit swindle on me, ’n’
1 don’t trust a piebald again as
long as I live.”
“11.V.E.”: Most eel-meat is good. I’ve
taken small squirmers (of the common and brown
variety) in Monaro (N.S.W.) streams, in the day-
time, when perch-fishing (for “English” perch), and
they weren’t far behind the hog-backed fellow when
cooked. There is also a silvery-grey eel in the
Monaro waters which fries up even better than the
brown. The Australian river and salt-water eels
number several species, including the green, painted,
clouded and silver varieties. I’ve seen great silver
eels about 4ft. in length, captured in tidal lakes and
estuaries, simply east aside and left to rot. The
silver eel is a purely marine species. Brother Black-
make dotes on eel. I’ve noted him chasing small
squirmers in waterholes, and after a dam was cleared
out I’ve found him prospecting for moribund eels left
lying in the damp mud. Yet science constantly sums
up his tucker as “frogs, lizards and small rodents
chiefly.” He also includes in his menu a largo assort-
ment of beetles and other insects, besides wild birds
and their eggs. Getting back to eel-meat, I bar the
sand-eel. One might as well cut motor-tyres into
.iunks and fry them.
AN ADVERTISEMENT.
BRIGHT CHILD: “Uncle, you’re a hair advertisement, ain’t you?"
UNCLE: “A hair advertisement! What do you mean?”
BRIGHT CHILD: You know, Uncle this part before using and this part after using.”
“Moana”: When a pakeka decorates his
fine-looking- bungalow with a label that meaneth
“The House of a Stinking Dog,” the first Maori who
sees it can be forgiven for having convulsions and
exclaiming delightedly “Py korry, tat te goot
name!” A good knowledge of the brown language
is necessary in order to choose wisely, but a little
knowledge is dangerous, while to appeal to a Maori
is quite unsafe, for Henare loves to have his joke
with the pakeha. Even the name of a well-known
place may cause consternation when turned into plain
English. Rotorua, for instance, lias two meanings,
one of which can’t be mentioned; and I never see
the name of the M.L. township of, Waitara on a
front gate without feeling tempted to sneak in and
tell the owner what it means.
“Gnaroo”: “Pick” (B. 13/2/T9) dis-
courses on aboriginal duck-catching. In earlier
times the Balonne (Q.) blacks netted ducks thus.
They chose a straight Stretch of river, because
wildfowl cut across bends. A bark-fibre net was
held at one end by nigs hidden in the treetops on
either side of the river, the other end being sunk
and held up or down stream, according to the
expected drive, by other abos. wearing reed caps.
Meantime the gins had been driving the game
towards the straight. If the big mob was likely
to pass above the trees, the hidden nigs threw
boomerangs above the birds, causing them to dive
for the water, as they do when attacked by hawks.
When they struck the net, the tree-held ends were
thrown to the waiters holding the other ends, and
usually the catch was good. In an old book en-
titled “Fjowleing” the author describes how the
peasants of Prance netted migratory birds by stretch-
ing a net between high trees in the mountains, and
caused the birds to dive netwards by waving from
the treetops what look like, in the quaint old illus-
tration, small windmill sails.
“D.F.”: The bullock is getting a knock in
the carrying business out in western N. S. Wales.
Bullocks are dear now-, and draught horses dirt
cheap, wherefore many carriers are selling out Poley
and picking up Punch.
“Glen II.”: What do they know of Mel-
bourne who only Melbourne know ? It was not
until the other day when I happened upon Yol. V.
of the “Cambridge Natural History,” written and
edited at the University and published in London,
that I found out that the burghers habitually em-
ploy the common mantis as a fly-trap. According
to the “History” the mantis tribe are plentiful about
Melbourne and “are placed by citizens on the window-
blinds of their houses, so. that the rooms may be
cleared of flies by the indefatigable voracity of the
insect.” In our street we nearly always employ
alligators. These, besides destroying the flies, can
be induced for a consideration to re-tape Venetian
blinds once a year.
“Scribe”: Can anyone give it a name?
Wandering round one of the many beaches of Port
Darwin we came across an aquatic reptile built on
the crayfish principle with, instead of the usual
feelers, two tri-jointed arms or strikers which, when
not in action, lay folded, covering the tinder part of
the head. On annoying the insect with a piece of
glass it feinted with the left and swung with the
right, striking the glass with considerable force. The
head of the insect was reminiscent of the bardee
grub; the body was covered with sectional armor simi-
lar to the , cray; the tail petered off to a three-
pronged point, the side prongs being higher up the
sides. His swimming apparatus consisted of four
pairs of hairy flippers fitted to the keel, whilst his
shore-going equipment was three pairs of legs fitted
under the chest or where the chest should be. He
had prominent eyes on what may have been his fore-
NOT PREPARED TO GO SO FAR.
“I suppose, now, plenty of these Turks ’d he
much the same sorter looking fellers as
me or Bill here."
“ Well, I don’t say that altogether. Still
there was some pretty tough lookin'
coves among ’em."
head, and two paddle-shaped, collapsible “feelers”
protruded from under the jaws. Length over all
about 4in., width' roughly 4in. Short-tempered and
vicious, but without the Cray’s habit of “flapping’’
with its hindquarters. Seen by the whole party, all
compulsory teetotallers of over five weeks’ standing.
(Continued on page 24.)
BILL STICKERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When William Stickers came to town his mind from
care was free,
His heart was light, his eyes were bright and
beamed with ecstasy—•
He'd never seen the grass so green out west at
Nymagee.
He came to “blew” a cheque and meant a month or
more to stay— '
At least until his cash was done lie’ wouldn't go
away ;
But 1 am sorry to relate his planning went astray.
1' rom when a John Hop moved him on it gave him
quite a shock,
Ami all the day and half the night he walked around
the block.
hen “Keep the Bight” fell on his sight his brain
began to rock.
With constant keeping to the right and constant
moving on
f l lie lot ot \\ illiam Stickers was indeed a hapless
one.
He tramped, and tramped, and tramped, and tramped
until his feet were gone.
"By cripes,’ said he, “these Sydney Johns got
quickly on my track —
I wondered why they looked at me suspiciously and
black.
I'll beat the flamers all the same—l’ll take, the first
. train back.”
When William Stickers left the town an angry man
was he,
And uttered every adjective in his vocabulary,
And he repeated all of them next day at Nymagee.
TOM BEASLEY.


Just Published.
EDWARD S. SORENSON’S
NEW NOVEL,
i<
THE SQUATTER’S WARD.
A splendid Australian novel by one of onr best story-writers.
J. H. IYI. ABBOTT’S
“SALLY,
99
A great Australian historical novel which has won praise from
every critic in the Commonwealth.
THESE TWO NOVELS ARE RECENT ADDITIONS TO THE
“Bookstall” Series of Australian Novels.
A Action series which has broken all Australian publishing
records.
ALL ONE PRICE:
One Shilling Each (Is. I*d. posted).
Obtainable from all Bookstalls and Booksellers.
Over 2,000,000 Copies already sold. Write for a Complete Catalogue of
One Hundred Australian Shilling Novels.
A few contributing authors: Steele Rudd, Edward Dyson, Beatrice
Grimshaw, Thos. E. Spencer, Ambrose Pratt, Arthur Wright,
Arthur H. Adams, M. Forrest, Louis Becke, Randolph Bedford,
E. J. Brady, A. G. Stephens, John Sandes, Sumner Locke, Ralph
Stock, Norman Lindsay, Broda Reynolds.
HAVE YOU READ—
“THE PYJAMA MAN”—By Ralph Stock.
A capital romance which has not a
single dull page.
SOUTH SEA SHIPMATES”- „
By A. J. Barry.
A great series of Australian sea stories.
South Sea
Shipmates
B ar ry
'S tev»Brwwn'jß«nytp
Published by
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL
GO. LTD.,
476 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Fra
RAU*I3TOOI <fc .r
LEVIATHAN
Specialty TAILORING
Leviathan Tailoring is an Absolute
Delight in Wear and Service from
the first day of putting on until the
i last. Stylish and shapely when
new, a Leviathan Suit retains
these very desirable qualities right
through the life of the garments.
There is much beneath the sur-
face in a Leviathan Suit not
readily seen, but built right into
the foundation, ensuring efficient
service to the end.
If you have not been getting
satisfaction elsewhere, allow' our
Master Craftsmen to Tailor your
New Suit, and you, too, will at
once realise what a Perfect-fitting,
Long-life Suit should be.
SAC SUITS
TAILORED TO MEASURE.
The Latest and Smartest Styles in All-
wool Suitings of English, Scotch, Irish and
Australian Manufacture.
Acceptable Grey or Brown Shades.
84/-, 90/-to 189|-
the
Suit.
Sac Suits in Finest-quality Australian-
made Super-Worsteds.
136/6 and 147/- the suit.
(j
Write for Patterns, Home-
measurement Chart,
Tape, etc. All free.
ORDER BY POST. WE PAY CARRIAGE ,
Leviathan
Cor. Swanston & Bourke Streets. MELBOURNE
10 per cent. Special
Discount off all our
usual prices allowed
to Returned Soldiers
■
TV f
w
\ .
'**• :
tmmmi
iSP®
M
mm..
m
-m
Large Copper Matte
Ladle for Mt. Lyell Copper Reduction Works
Steel
Castings
FOR
COPPER and IRON
ORE REDUCTION
WORKS.
Matte and Slag Ladles .
Blast Furnace Jackets .
All Classes of Steel Castings for Gears, Trucks, &c., and
Mining and General Engineering.
Send your INQUIRIES with DRAWINGS and Full Particulars to the MANUFACTURERS.
CHAS. RUWOLT PTY. LTD.
Victoria Street, Richmond, VICTORIA.
Agents for'New South WaIes—ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO., Circular Quay East, Sydney, N. S. Wale,.
Agents for Queensland —AUSTRALIAN MACHINERY COMPANY LUTITED, Mary Street, Brisbane. Queensland.
5


THE DURABLE
r RAD £ MAP
DURABESTOS
Thc HsSS£=rasas
DURABESTOS, the ASBESTOS-CEMENT SHEETS and SLATES
has solved this problem for building the home with the very least of expert attention. ’
S nnd 0 Permanence I*-" 1 * - "
Booklets describing' the method of walling and roofing with Durabestos, together with samples, post free.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED
Manufacturers,
Head Office: Baptist Street, Red fern NSW * * - - _
’ w,s ’ w * Postal Address: Box 474 G.P.0., Sydney.
56 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
243 Collins St.,
MELBOURNE.
Currie St.,
ADELAIDE.
Lord St.,
PERTH.
Amelia St.,
BRISBANE.
Macquarie St.,
HOBART.
St. John St.,
LAUNCESTON.
“John”: At the Proserpine (N.Q.) I have
seen as many as 20 alligators in a morning. On one
occasion one of . our party shot an old-man without a
tooth in his head. His length was 15ft. 2in.—they
don’t grow much longer than that, I fancy. On
another trip a little chap (9ft.) was shot at close
qua iters. He slipped into the water, and whilst we
v/efe having lunch he emerged on the opposite bank,
flcun&ered about in the mud for a time, and then
lay quite still. After lunch we rowed towards him,
when he quickly turned and slipped into the water
again. However, we found him the next morning
quite dead, and held a post-mortem. Half his heart
had been shot away, yet he had lived for at least an
hour after his accident.
* * * *
“Glen Aire”; The coast country of the
Otway Forest was not too rough fov black brother
to die in, anyway. Down amongst the sandhills'
between the mouth *of the Aire River and Cape
Otway there is a graveyard with any quantity of
bones, stone knives and axes, spears, waddies and
other odds and ends.
* * -* *
“Veronal”: Birds are not considered use-
ful unless they live mainly on crawlers and hoppers,
or, like the crow, help to dispose of the carrion
which breeds the blowfly. But many species such as
quail, wild pigeons, wild doves and finches subsist to
a large extent on weed-seeds, and therefore do good
woik for no wages. The wonga, of course, is partly
insectivorous, and therefore valuable from two
different points of view. The demure ground dove
is another of the gardeners and farmers’ V.A.D.’s.
Of the finches the plump diamond sparrow (spotted-
sided finch) and the red-head finch)
earn the D.S.O. as weeders.
THE MAN PAYS.
MR. SINGLE: "By jove, old man, you should be proud of your wife. That dress she
Has on to-night simply beggars description.”
MR. DOUBLE: “Yes. That reminds me of a conundrum : ‘Why am I like description?’ ”
■ “I-lermish”: “E.S.S.” (B. 6/3/T9) re
record-smashing teamsters. I don’t know much
about the bush road-ruiners, but here in Melbourne
a carrier had a 12-ton lorry-load of steel billets
pulled three miles by four horses, traversing busy
Flinders-street. What about a Local Government
.bill -to stop this foolishness? The same carrier
about a month ago pulled a 36-ton lift with 20
horse.s along Flinders-street. lie busted several
hundred blocks, broke sundry tramway manhole-
covers, and left a couple of holes in the street large
enough for a man to have a sleep in. I don’t
think he has been presented with a bill for the
repairs.
* * * *
Werrimee ’: The -exchange of wives for
a definite period is common among the Binghi
brotherhood. This is a convenient custom when
one is married to a termagant. He can kill two
birds with one stone by swapping her to his worst
enemy. In many tribes a woman is forbidden to
speak to her daughter’s husband, which is another
wise law, handed down by the ancient myalls.
Generally, the marriage laws are intricate and
ligid. Each woman may have supplementary or
emergency husbands belonging to the same totemic
gioup as her lord and master; he, of course, has
the same privilege in regard to wives. In some
town's the young warriot, after being initiated, has
to put in a sort of probationary period of matri-
mony with the oldest and ugliest gin available in
the tribe, while the old bucks appropriate the dam-
sels. These work for the patriarchs, and are ulti-
mately bestowed on the youths who* have been most
liberal in their gifts to aged guardians.
“Narangie” : To catch wild fowl the blacks
made grass-fibre nets, stronger and more durable
than any that white man ever used. For ducks the
net was stretched across the billabong just above
the water. The young and active of both sexes
made a detour to round up the poultry. An old
man sat down in a secluded spot near the net, and
if you were to witness the catch, motioned for you
c ’° likewise, saying “N-angery longa bimble”
( Sit down on the ground”). When the ducks
approached he threw no boomerang, but, catching
hold of his upper Ijp, gave the screech of a hawk,
the frightened birds would at once dip below the
trees, and, skimming the water, crash into the net
The old hunter then plunged in and gathered his
prey, biting their heads to keep them quiet. That
done, the snare would be reset for another and yet
another catch, until the birds took a tumble and,
b-I following the lead of older and vriser* drakes
who paid no heed to the fake cry, escaped the net.
*
“Pick”: “Werrimee” (B. 27/2/T9) tells
of a driver, who, to stop his brakeless waggonette
from bolting downhill, ties a tree behind as a drag.
Ibis plays old Harry with made roads, and nowadays
is prohibited by the shire engineers. A less harm-
ful and more effective dodge is to ure a fairly stout
but springy sapling. Fasten the butt-end to the fore-
part of the conveyance. Then spring the pole
fiimly against the wheel, and tie rearwards with a
rope or chain. The grinding of the tyre may cut
the sapling through in a long descent; but there
are plenty more sticks in the scrub.
THE PERSIFLAGE OF THE PUSH.
B ENNO: ”Ow did yer cop the hung eye, Ginger?”
GINGER : Ad a brawl wiv a bloke.”
BENNO: “ Wot, did ’e run after yer?”
Gouger : Along the topmost parts of
the N.Q. coast there is a dwarf tree which in-season
is loaded with a scarlet fruit, very much like our
larger plums, but tougher. The native name is
wongi. The fruit is cut up and dried, then boiled
in cocoanut milk. The resultant sweet stew is
delicious. Some of the island boys burn the bark
of this tree, mix the ash with, water, and rub it
on their jet-black wool. After a couple of applica-
tions the fleece turns to a pronounced ginger. Then
the buck confidently sets sail after the girls.
* * * *
\\ .A.C.” : For usefulness and cheap con-
struction the cocky’s . sleigh ‘ (or slide) take? the
bacon. A fork cut from a tree (spotted gum I
found the best), with Dobbin hitched to the tail-
prong, and there you are. Another type used by
aristocratic cookies is made with two. lengths: of
sapling for runners, curved at one end and flooring-
boards nailed across. Its lowness makes loading
easy, and when not in use shifting farm-scenery
Mrs. Cocky and the cockyettes join the old man
in a joyride around the fields. A Rolls-Royce is
useful, but give me a sleigh, hitched to a pair of
spirited gees when in the vicinity of a cane-trash
paddock.
* * * *
“G.L.”: You can get some queer results
with explosives and rabbits. I made my experiment
years ago. After tying the fracteur to him we let
him explore a warren in the bank of a creek and
12ft. down from surface. Had all other exits tightly
blocked and also closed his door behind him; then
retired. In a few minutes we heard a bit of a
thud and out came the same rabbit, dazed but
alive. The plug had dropped off and blown him
out of the hole we had last blocked up. No other
result.
* * * *
“Snell” tells it as Holmes told it to him :
“His name was Winterfield, but he never sung in
no choir I know of. He was s’posed to be perfeck
? e , I l^? nlan ’ 11 I w hl say he looked it. He was too
tall tor his trowsis, V too thin for his coat, ’n’ he
had one iv.them roach-backed noses with one ’ump,
n a droopin’ mo, ’n’ a glass in he’s left eye. He
was livin’ two doors from me, ’n’ was ’ighly re-
spected in the street coz of his aunt bein’ a hurl or
somethink. They said he had gone through two
fortunes. He looked as if he'd come out a long
way on the other side. Everythin’ about 'him was
down to it. How the fam’ly lived Lord knows, but
one of the girls was on in the pantomine.
I thought a good deal of Winterfield, him always
remind in me of the ’Ouse of Lords, with the bailiffs
in, lookm so cold, n’ dignified, disregardless of the
ringe on his cuffs. Then, all of a moment, one
lay I sees him walk up to Jimmie Ah Kit’s vege-
table cart standing in the street, look it over through
his one glass, take up a large marrer, stick it under
his arm, n walk off, just ez if he ’ad a happoint-
lunch with the Guvner.
“My winder overlooks the street, ’n’ me bein’ a
cobblei I sees more than most. Next thing I sees
is Henry Winterfleld,- isquire, walkin’ along opposite,
swingin’ his stick. One of Brown's hens pokes her
head out of a crack in the fence after a worm.
\\ illiam sees his chance. Swish! he swipes that
’en’s head, pulls the palin’ loose at the bottom,
pokes the chicken under his coat, ’n’ moves on,
proud ez Lucifer. Then comes the time when
Boyle’s Ann is goin’ for the beer, with the shillin’
in the jug. She bangs the jug agin that telegraft
post. It’s Henry Arthur Winterfleld comes ’n’ pats
the child’s ’ead, ’n’ puts, the jug ’andle in her hand,
’n’ sends her ’ome. But he’s pinched the shillin’ !
“I’m gettin’ to watch Henry, ’n’ one night I sees
him go into Coffee’s, ’n’ walk off with Coffee’s door-
mat. He done it in a way Coffee ought to be
obliged to him. It’s just breakin’ day on a Sundav
mornin’, when, cornin’ out unexpected, I lights oil
me noble in my own backyard. Then it dawns on
me the feller ain’t no gentleman, ’n’ what’s more
he’s a thief —he’s stealin’ my beans! Of course I
goes to go for him, but afore I can sav a word he
screws his glass in, ’n’ looks at me ’ard, ’n’ I just
sorter feels, I can’t do it. ‘ThaVall right, boss,’ I
sez, ave some more.’ He makes a sort of snortin’
sound in his neck. ‘I may have some more beans,
or I may not,’ sez he, ‘but in any case don’t be so
damn familiar!’ Gorsfruth, he’s a gentleman all
right!”
* * * *
“Centurion” : Re that nosebagful of
steaming eucalyptus leaves which “W.A.C.” recom-
mended as a cure for strangles (B. 27/2/’l9). Let
the amateur vet. try it on the other fellow’s nag.
Lears ago when in the S’African constabulary I was
ordered, much against my inclination, to apply the
cure, which was one much belovryl of Dutchmen to
a fine four-year-old. After the first whiff the neddy
booted me through a ring of admiring Basutos, and,'
racing down the paddock, broke ,liis neck over a
stone wall. No dosing beyond opening medicine is
required for strangles, which, by the way, are nearer
croup than influenza. The disease is as incidental
to horse adolescence as distemper is to puppies, and
is much less harmful.
* * *
“H.C.”: The young members of th« Bird
Lovers’ League, of whom there are thousands in
In. S. Wales, are serious in their work of bird pro-
tection. For this the late “Jimmie Pannikin” and
the bush schools deserve thanks. The youngsters
encourage Willy Wag and his colleagues to visit their
school-grounds and homes by providing drinldng-
troughs and food. I have seen representatives of six
and eight different bird families joyfully counter-
lunching together. Big “Jimmie’s” memory ought
to live as long as the League; and the' League
deserves to live for ever.
* * * *
“Wood Duck”: The wild duck, especially
the wood-duck, has become almost a domestic bird
on some of the Murray flats towards NVah (Vic.).
The birds have developed a taste for lucerne, and
come to feed in thousands in the paddocks, where
they get comparatively tame.
THE FREEBOOTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
What needs a man in this great world ?
■ A free boot on the hills to roam,
A blanket in the thicket curled
To call his home,
A billy steaming on the log-,
A book, a dog.
Who looks for finer company
I wLI not have. He is not free.
Who is not makes no friend of me.
My leg was loose to tramp the earth
And walk the sea a thousand miles.'
I heard a woman’s lilt of mirth,
I watched her smiles.
hove chained me then, and spread his cares
Through ten long years.
My boots were leaden; toiling hard,
With smoke to breathe and walls for guard,
I dragged them in a barren yard.
I saw it was the common rule
Of Love to set man w;here he roots.
He made of me a limping fool.
I cast my boots
Of lead, and whistled up a hound.
To foot the round,
Great world. Now, loveless in the rain,
Or where the sunlight swamps the plain,
I am freebooting once again!
VICTOIUA.
D.


-<'■ ■ v #?'■'
m
m-
laws i
ftff *'/<
iSCiHs
,T * %
*■'•■•■ *
■
sar j*
I
.
' -'•• ' ■ i - ,
' ' ' •< '
Y
mm
;* A"
Y**
ifV*
■
.. .
■■■ '■ "■ WZ. M- ■{
m
SSfiV;
YY
4®
:.: .
Y'
ill
S!
a A*£SS
x
■
miss
h
■
Y
»;>
•'
SW(
- :;•:
laSp mm y 4& ; t-v, v , 3
■
mm ;.
' ~.. ■ . ' Y ■ . ,
»mw
m
mm
¥m
■
■ ’ .
m 9 f|| 7 | 8 g aMBli ipf
*>« Se cur e S TVtitl 0^
a C a tOUc *>. y“ *W>
e “o,°“ «ave
let
3&W.
■
M '■
,- f :
MfPPl*!
!*
■ : «
Mil??


m
m
a
n
i
1
m
DP
d
o
Ten shillings a day from neck down. How much from neck up—last year,
this year, NEXT year?
International Correspondence Schools
(The World’s Schoolhouse)
LONDON, SCRANTON, PARIS, NEW YORK.
183 Pitt St., Sydney; 79 Swanston St., Melbourne.
What Position Do You Want?
Information supplied without obligation
to enquirers and a Free Booklet posted.
.Advertisement Writer . .Die-maker
. Agriculturist
. Architect
.Artificer
• Accountant (prelim.
. Boilermaker
. Book-keeper
. Bridge Engineer
• Builder
.Chauffeur
. Chemist
. Carpenter
. Carriage Builder
.Civil Engineer
.Clerk of Works
• Coke-oven Manager
.Concrete Engineer
Foreign
. .Draughtsman
.. Dynamo Attendant
. .Electrical Engineer
) .. Electrician
. .Engine Drive?
. .Fireman
.. Furniture-maker
. .Gas-power Engineer
.. General Education
. .Illustrator
.. Livestock Breeder
..Mathematician i
. .Marine Engineer
.. Mechanical Engineer
. .Metallurgist
.. Metal Prospector
Languages—French, Italian,
. .Mine Electrician
. .Mine Foreman
.Mine Manager
, .Mine Surveyor
. .Motor-body Builder
. .Motor Engineer
~ Motor Mechanic
. .Moulder
. .Municipal Engineer
.Navigator
. Patternmaker
. .Plumber
~ Poultry Farmer
.. Publicity Manager
, .Quantity Surveyor
.Railway Engineer
. .Refrigeration Engineer
Spanish, German, by Phonograph.
.. Salesman
.. Secretary
.. Sheet-metal Worker
.. Shorthand-Tvpist
. .Show-card Writer
.. Sign Painter
.. Smelter
..Steam Engineer
. .Structural Engineer
. .Surveyor
. .Telegraph Engineer
. .Telephone Engineer
.. Templater
.. Toolmaker
. .Window Dresser
.. Wireless Expert
. .Woollen Worker
. Works Engineer
KINDLY PRINT NAME CLEARLY.
'Name
Address
Warrigal” Gap Bed Lathe
with Hollow Spindle.
< Ngt
EMBODIES ESSENTIAL QUALITIES—
ACCURACY, RIGIDITY, STRENGTH.
9f" Centre. 10' Bed.
SWINGS 34 INCHES IN GAP.
HOLLOW SPINDLE 2 a INCHES DIAMETER.
DELIVERY FROM STOCK. Inspection Invited.
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.
490-492 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
than most modern artists to tell thb truth,
but still it lies. Its limitations are many.
I say a black-and-white drawing by'men like
Itembraudt, Whistler, Corot, Millet, or any
man who understands tone, is a much truer
copy of Nature, because the artist, though
he employ but a few simple tones, can relate
those tones almost as accurately as they
occur in Nature. The camera can’t do this.
Suppose the subject contains a patch of
yellow and a patch of blue of the same tone.
Now, the artist’s black-and-white sketch
will give this relation truthfully. What
happens in the case of the camera? The
blue comes out lighter in tone and the yellow
comes out darker. Where we had no dif-
ference in tone now we have a big jump!
“Biologist” does not think of the small range
between black and white in the camera com-
pared with the artist’s range.' That’s a
big point. Secondly, he says: “Thus the
art quality is not so much the beauty
or the skill in the thing itself as some
thought of beauty or skill that it arouses in
ourselves.” This is tripe without onions.
According to him, one of Greuze’s in-
sipid girls wearing a semi-transparent
camisole is a better work of art than
a hideous dwarf by Velasquez or a still-life
study of beer-bottles by Manet, simply
because the Greuze suggests a beautiful
figure beneath the underwear. Thus Greuze
is greater than Velasquez or Manet!
A Satchel of Books
The Squatter's Ward, by Edward S. Sorenson
(N.ff.W. Bookstall Co., Sydney). Squatter Meeton
and his wife get a white baby dumped on them by
a blackfellow. They take care of the mysterious
infant and call her Edith. Later on the child is
abducted bv the owner of another station ; and still
later found by her real parents. There is good
hunt-the-thimbie material here, and the author
handles it with skill. The love interest is secondary
to the unravelling of the plot, but that part of the
yarn is pleasing enough. The atmosphere of the
bush is maintained throughout. Not a book that
aims at sky-scraping effects, but well written and
likely to have a wide popularity.
The Love of an Unlcjiovin Soldier (John Lane, Lon-
don). This yarn is supposed to have been found
in a dugoutj and a bit of the original copy is
photographed as, a guarantee of good faith and
for purposes of identification. The theatrical set-
ting of the scenes suggests design; and the work
may be that of a romantic budding novelist who
was suddenly called away. John Lane offers the
original manuscript to the lady most concerned if
she cares to call for it. A readable story.
The Young Gods, by Peter Austin (Tyrrell’s, Ltd..
Sydney). There is music in these verses of a
young Australian soldier-poet and a good pictorial
sense. Much of the work is immature; but the
note is thoroughly sincere. “The Young Gods”
must be looked upon as promise rather than per-
formance ; but the promise is very fair.
The High Romance, by Michael Williams (Mac-
millan, New York). A most pretentious book by an
American journalist, who seems to imagine that he
owns the world because he has become editor of a
magazine. Few of the incidents amount to any-
thing; and the whole autobiography is colorless and
thin. Even the ’Frisco earthquake inspires nothing
worth while; but there is a tremendous description
of all that happened on the way from a game of
poker to take charge of a noisy section or one of
the daily newspapers. The author takes himself so
seriously that some of the dullest passages are
almost humorous.
.4 League of Nations, Four Lectures (Diocesan Social
Union, Adelaide). The lecturers were delivered by
W. Jethro Brown, Meredith Atkinson and Herbert
Heaton. The fairly obvious side of things is here
set out with clarity and force.
Degenerate Germany, by Henry de Halsalle (Spe-
cialty Press, Melbourne). This is not a good book
to have about. The story of Germany’s depravity,
backed by statistics, may have been worth com-
piling and placing on record ; but suspicion is raised
that Germany is merely an excuse to get a quick sale
for a mass of reading of a very insanitary descrip-
tion. We have plenty of proofs of German beastli-
ness without this.
Footsteps, by Dorothy Percival (John Lane, Lon-
don). Daphne lives in the Canary Islands, where
her father is trying without success to redeem his
almost ruined fortunes. Gonsalves, a person of
mixed English and Spanish race, tries to win her,
but doesn t make a success of it. Finally he pushes
things to such an extreme that the girl rises in her
nightdress and knocks him out. The English
engineer makes things all right. A pleasant book.
The Inky Way
London Newspaper World reports that
101 candidates at the British elections were
Inky Wayfarers. Of the total 41 were re-
turned, 27 being old members re-elected.
“Copy Boy” : The Age was once notorious
for the rapidity with which it changed its
staff, but there are at present in the office
three men —editor Schuler, chief sub-editor
Stephens and LEADER-editor Short—whose
service under the Symes aggregates 120
years.
“B.B.” : The smallest Australian newspaper
I know is The Daily Pilot, of Thursday
Island. It is a single sheet, 12in. by Gin.,
and has two columns of print—on one side
only. In the issue of Feb. 11 there are
telegraphed reports of the ’flu barometer on
the mainland, war cables, local shipping and
a couple of ads. The Pilot is no cheap rag.
Rate of subscription is Is. weekly; single
copy, 6>d.
“N.M.8.”: Somebody protested last week
against the senseless use of the phrase
•‘dinkum Aussie” to describe a good Austra-
lian. The general use of this schoolboy
jargon is an absurd habit of the present day.
Recently a flapper talked to me of having a
spin round the Dom on the bike of her
boy, who was a compulso. He had been
out at Kenso that day, and was going to
take her that evening to the movies. He
lived near the Cen and went to the Tec.
She herself was going in for her qually.
Perhaps it is natural for the young to babble
like this. But let mature people use plain
English. There’s nothing better.
A Sydney woman threw herself and two
of her children over the ocean cliffs; and
the next day Sydney Telegraph’s tragedy
expert gave us this: —
It is a spot 200 yards from the Gap, and at night-
time the sight from the ledge whence she and the
children fell is an inspiring one. Last evening,
’neath an overcast sky, the place was peaceful
enough, with the calm-sea and the quiet, treacherous
waves creeping in, but the thought of the tragedy
hours previously conjured up other scenes. One, on
hands and knees, looked at the crunched rock where
last her foot rested, and the 200 ft. drop seemed far
off.
Thud!
Easiness, Robbery, etc.
“Norbell”: Th-e wharves see some strange
workers. There is an extraordinary blend-
ing of actors, chemists, clerks, cockies,
navvies and nondescripts. And there is
Ikey. He is in a class of his own. Hast
week he began work on the Monday at 8
a.m. and worked till 5 p.m. (145.). lie then
took an hour’s spell, began again at 6 p.m.,
and worked through the night till 8 a.m. on
Tuesday (fl 14s:), discharging bananas from
a Fiji boat. Then he booked himself on
again, and worked right on, day and night,
till 8 a.m. on Wednesday. Still Israel was
unsatisfied. He borrowed a hand-truck,
filled it with the loose ripe bananas which
had dropped off the bunches, and which are
the wharfie’s perquisite, and peddled his
spoils all morning in the city. Then he took
a well-earned rest for an hour or two, turned
up bright and smiling at 6 p.m., and worked
another shift till 9 a.m. on Thursday. You
couldn’t kill Ikey with anything lighter than
an Act of Parliament.
# * * *
“H.W.F.”: Launceston lately advertised
for “a competent draughtsman” for the city
engineer’s department. I inquired what
the duties were and got this:
The duties of draughtsman in a municipal office com-,
prise pretty well everything in the way of drafting.
He must be capable of plotting surveys, and may be
required to carry out small jobs; must be able to
use a level and prepare sections; must, be able to
grade sewers, streets and tramways; must have a
good knowledge of office work, and will be required
to see that the provisions of the Building Act are
properly carried out; must have a knowledge of
tramway work, and be able to prepare drawings of
cars, etc. ; must be able to plan and design build-
ings and exercise general supervision over house
drainage; and, generally, must be a neat and quick
worker. Salary, £5 weekly.
I told them I could make as much firing on
the Loongana. Why in thunder did I
waste time and money acquiring a profes-
sion ?
* * * *
The rather-amusing Commonwealth Insti-
tute of Science and Industry, having observed
that Australia spends £1,800,000 a year on
paper, has written a report about the possi-
bilities of making the goods in this country.
As, however, the Institute has no labora-
tories, all it can do is rake together other
people’s conclusions; but as the Institute
doesn’t know how the other people’s tests (if
any) were conducted, it may simply
do harm by repeating the alleged re-
sults, especially when they seem to
show that “the thing can’t be done
in Australia.” Apparently not a word
is said about the manufacture of paper from
straw; yet that industry has becotne an im-
portant one in some of the central States of
the U.S.A. Paper of excellent quality can
be made out of our straw. That is certain.
The whole question is as to costs.
* * * *
“Glug” : An auction-sale of machinery to
be held shortly will drop the curtain on the
old Geelong Lumber Mills. Here is an ex-
ample of a plucky firm taking the count
after a good fight because of bad luck.
Originally the fires were fed with the wood-
shavings.’ etc. These wood-shavings were
saturated with salt as the logs were floated
up to the mill along an artificial lagoon off
Corio Bay. The salt acted on the iron
chimney-stacks, with the result that they
had to "be pulled down and replaced by brick.
This cost thousands. The next trouble came
from the engine-house, where a high-speed
turbine came adrift and flew out through
the roof, wrecking the greater part of the
power-plant. This was set right after a
long and costly stoppage of work. After
that, two or three shipments of bad timber,
which split during the seasoning, made tim-
ber-merchants lose confidence in the place.
The plant has been idle for some years now.
and as no one has been found to risk
making a fresh start, the auctioneer’s ham-
mer will give the death-knock.
* * * *
“0.L.”: The Water Waggon objects to
putting Billjim into the grape-growing in-
dustry, alleging that “the life” leads to
trouble for the man who makes wine out of
his produce. It is worth noting, however,
that the net price of dried lexias will this
year give a better return than the £ll a ton
offered by distillers for fresh fruit. The
main point to be considered in getting Bill-
jim going as a grape-producer is whether
growing grapes for drying or for liquor is
likely to offer the most permanent means of
earning a crust. I believe there is much
more for the soldier at present in drying,
because that business is well established and
likely to remain so. The wine-maker’s life,
on the other hand, seems to be a battle with
adverse marketing conditions, and the sale
of grapes for distillation has yet to be
proved as a regular income-producer.
THE FREEDOM OF THE SKIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“One of the chief things to be guarded against is
a Government monopoly of aerial transportation.”
— Sydney, Telegraph.
When the great wings start to flutter
Up aiyl down the smiling air,
Bearing cheese and eggs and butter
And the things that ladies wear,
When the whole blue sky is throbbing
With the motive power of flight
And the whisking tails go bobbing
Down the star-lanes in the night;
Then be wary and be wise;
See that all the upper skies
Over land and over sea
Shall be absolutely free
For our Private Enterprise.
When the wide white wings are gliding
Over continents afar,
Can a market keep in hiding?
Where the cash is, there we are,
At the ready profit snatching
Right from Zembla to Peru.
And we’ll find it by our watching
From the highways of the blue.
Then be wary and be wise;
There are millions in the skies.
We may coin the very stars,
Mint their hoarded bullion bars
For our Private Enterprise.
K.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


f Ui
i
V/ff.f. 's'i
7<
sHLAi
%
(£
m/A
-
w
l/«-
-ir*
l| i|5F»
:®ig§
;. i
K
..:vym
6SS
»V.V?:
\*V*2*
‘^Vv<
•-4 l'O.
W.
sjwsW
•M
SIW
(&&$?
;3*3S
j^»v^‘
s»
V-ci-v.
IV-••■•.:
sma
m
15W
i?* ; s
tvV,
mm
XV
mmWz&m
Mi
Kir.
...
mam
s*~.
m
i&A
M
JgSSjf
■JkVj
8£
s?h'.
-TA
• ft*.
tae»
3*«
as
sh&&
3WBC
.v'K
3S
iK*
.'Mtaxf
■‘t£:£*Bi>
sJsKsw^
m
riiiV'.
Ur-
&-SSTC
U
sets
jgg
••>.*•" liA..^
i
1
fpSS
lIS
!
luimiitiMMM
WEATHtR p^
■fO
V
4s>ams^ c<?
==4USTRALIA
M
vz
i
%
I
K
PHI
U/ye Quality Roofing
? that Resists the Elements,
Quality in a looting is measured by its dependable service, year in and year out, under all
climatic changes and conditions.
“Adamax” Roofing has proved its quality under most adverse conditions, and we honestly
recommend it to every builder seeking a roof that gives him best value.
It saves money —in first cost—in cost of upkeep —in cost of laying.
“Adamax''’ can be laid perfectly flat, which means less roofing required and less roofing timber
—then “Adamax” gives considerably greater service than galvanised-iron, yet it costs only
one-third the price and one-third for freight charges.
Free descriptive pamphlet, giving full facts, also free samples, from Desk “B.”
William Adams ($X Co. Ltd.,
175 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE : 521=3 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE : 96 Currie Street.
BRISBANE: Cr. Edward & Mary Streets.
PERTH: 33 King Street.


HU
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Dressing Roll, fitted
with every convenience, £3/10/-
A. Saunders’ solid Silver Shaving Set, in
Silk-lined Case, £2/10/-
A. Saunders’ solid Silver Manicure Set, finest-quality
instruments, £3/10/-
A. Saunders’ ster-
ling Silver Com-
bination Safety
Razor, Shaving
Brush and Blades,
25/-
TOILET GIFTS
"1
A. Saunders’ solid Silver Shoe Hook and Lift, in
Silk-lined Case, 10/6.
A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Lady’s Toilet Set, comprising two Hair Brushes.
Comb, Mirror, one Cloth and one Hat Brush, hand burnished, A 1 quality
Bristles, in Velvet- and Silk-lined Cases, £l5.
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller, 805-815 George Street
(Opp. Railway Station), Sydney.
A. Saunders’ Gold-
mounted Cigarette
Holder, in Silver
Case, 12/6.
m
Km,
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Silver Brush Set, com-
prising Hat, Cloth and Hair Brushes and
Comb, in Leatherette Case, 37/6,
A. Saunders’ solid Silver Hair Brush, Comb, Hairpin
Box and Powder Jar, in Silk-lined, Case, £4/10/-
i
'Sasiann
SB
SIS
A. Saunders’ solid Silver Sewing Companion, handsomely
, embossed, in Morocco-lined Case, 40/-
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard*
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Build e r s’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards,- etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68* PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W,
Branches in all parts of the world.
SAVOY HOTEL,
Hay Street, Perth, West Australia.
PERTH’S LEADING HOTEL.
Recommended to Visitors from Eastern States.
Tariffs £4/4/" per week, 12/0 per day.
J. M. QUIGLEY, Manager.
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
Over 30 years ago the late Lord Beaconsfield
testified to the benefits he received from Him-
rod’s Asthma Powder, and every post brings
similar letters to day.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Best Remedy for Asthma, Hay Fever,'Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout A ustralasia.
! BOOKS! BOOKS! FOR
The Book of Nature
A FULL AND EXPLICIT EXPLANATION
OF ALL THAT CAN OR OUGHT TO BE
KNOWN BY
MAN and WOMAN,
INTENDED ESPECIALLY FOR
THE MARRIED, OR THOSE IN-
TENDING TO MARRY.
By L. M. BYRN, M.D.
A PRACTICAL COMPLETE
FAMILY DOCTOR.
No such Complete Panorama of the Mysteries
of Human Reproduction has ever before been
given to the world.
DR. BYRN’S ILLUSTRATED EDITION
(1917 ISSUE) IS THE ONLY GENUINE
BOOK. ASK FOR IT, AND TAKE NO
OTHER. PRICE:
TWO SHILLINGS & SIXPENCE.
POST FREE.
Live and Learn, 2/-. How to Get Rich,
1/6 posted. Dr. Lamartine's Silent Friend,
1/6. Ned Donnelly's Art op Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, 1/6. How to
Dance, 1/6 posted. How to Wrestle, 1/6.
Moll Flanders (a rare book by Defoe), 1/3
posted. Thurston's Card Tricks, 1/3. All
Zola’s including Nana, 2/- each posted.
Educating the Horse, 1/3, Ventriloquism
Made Easy, 1/3. Up-to-date Comic Reciter,
1/6 posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/3. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 6/6 posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, 1/3, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(send for list). Joys of Life, 2/-. How
to Hake Youb Will, 1/3. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 2/3. Career of Beauty
Darling, 2/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/6. Par-
lor Tricks and Games, 1/6. Fortune-Telling
by Cards, 1/9. Life (a book for Men and Women
of To-day), 2/-. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales,
1/9. Tricks & Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/6.
Beauty's Secrets, 1/6 post free. Night of Temp-
tation, 2/-. How to Make Love, 1/3 post free.
Fowler's Science of Life, 12/6. Australian
Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 4/-.
Mahomet's Fortune-Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price 1/-, posted 1/3.
How to Become Quick at Figures, 1/3. Will
Power (Personal Magnetism), posted 1/-. San-
dow's Book of Strength posted, 4/-. Car-
lisle's Freemasonry, 6/3 posted. Daughters
of Ismael, 2/6. History of the Rod Flagella-
tions and the Flagellants (scarce), 15/-.
Practical Gas and Oil Engine Handbook, 5/6.
Motor Mechanics, 3/3. Motor Manual,
(latest), 3/6. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 1/-
and 2/3. God and My Neighbor, 9d. How-
to Read Faces, 2/-. Adventures of a Sydney
Barmaid, 1/-. Colonial Horse Doctor, 2/-.
French Polishing and Staining, 2/3. Photog-
raphy Self-taught. 1/6. How to Make
Sweets, Jams and Syrups, l/'2. New Tricks
whth Coins, 1/3 posted. House Painting and
Papering, 2/3. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
12/6. Australian Pastrycooks’ Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/6 posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/6. How to Read Faces
and Heads, 2/-. Soldering, Brazing, etc.,
■2/3 posted. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/9. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; 1/3 posted.
Camille, 1/6 posted. Piano Tuning and Repair-
ing, 2/3. Modern Etiquette, 1/3. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Gaines), 1/6. How
to Mesmerise, 2/-. Man from Snowy River,
4/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/3 posted. Parlor
Magic, 1/3 posted. The White Slave Traffic,
1/3. Every Man His Own Carpenter, 1/6.
Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator,
1/1. Secret History of the Court of Eng-
land, 2/-. Letter-Writer Up-to-date, 1/6
posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, 1/6 posted. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-; 1/2
posted. Electricity Made Simple (new), 6/'-.
The Confectioner’s Handbook, 1/6. Sexual
Knowledge for Everybody (with plates), 6/6
posted. How to Shine in Society, 1/6.
Cabinetmakers’ Handybook, 2/-. Complete
Bookkeeping, 2/6. Life of Deeming, illus-
trated, 1/1. How McDougall Topped the
Score, and Other Verses, 1/3. French
Self Taught, 1/3. Wannan’s Engine-
driver’s Guide, 6/- posted. Decameron of Boc-
caccio, 4/6 each, posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 2/- posted. Women’s Secrets, 1/-
posted. Gay, Life in Melbourne, 1/- posted.
Secrets of Beauty, Health and -Long Life
(50,000 sold), 2/- posted. A Bed of Roses, 4/6.
All These Prices Post Paid.
Established 30 Years.
DON’T BE FOOLED
INTO PA YING MORE.
New Tricks with Cards, 1/6. Sappho, genu-
1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 posted. Dr.
ilford's Midwife’s Handbook, 92 practical
Send stamp for my
BIG ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
SENT ANYWHERE
FOR THE ASKING.
illustrations, 3/'-. Aristotle, 5/-. Adam Lind-
say Gordon's Poems, 1/9. Practical 1 alm-
istry, 2/-. Guide to Auctioneering,
Lovers' Letter-writer, 1/6. All About Inco-
bators, 2/3. Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed,
Key to All Degrees, New Edition, 1/9 posted.
Vest-pocket Dictionary, 1/6 posted. Tokology,
10/6 posted. Ingersoll's Works, 2/-% lio
to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), '2/-
Chevasse's Advice to a Wipe, 3/9 posted. Bread
and Biscuit Bakers and Asms -
ant, 2/-. The Wipe’s Handbook, 1/3 P l osted.
Fruits of Philosophy, 1/- posted. 100 we
Recitations and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness
and its Cure, 1/2 posted Webster's Large
Unabridged Dictionary, 1/00 pages, 1600 »
leather bound, my price, 20s. post pud. O' -
pav 3 and i guineas?). Bootmaking and
ixg, 2/3. Dynamos and Electric Motors,
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete
Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 12/6 posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, 1/ P
Hfnry Lawson's Humorous \ erses, 1/3.
Age of Reason, by Paine, 1/3 P°^-
the Monk of Evil 2/9 On? Day, l /3 poMed The
& 2/ . Three
AVeeks, 2/- posted. The Escaped Nun, /■
AVRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, the big book store, 67 869 Market Street, Sydney (only).
WT- BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.


1
...
KssS
S. •
%
IW
5 .. -
ss;
.
aiM
K 3
: :V
: '. v •
,
mm % *
\ , i '
...... ..‘.s
'"3 t * " !
' : ir ; V J
>
;
: - £
A.
• V
k
V
SB
« i
ii
A KODAK
takes you
into the fresh air.
The blue sky overhead, the solt
air blowing in vour face, the
open road before you---and
Nature offering pictures for your
Kodak at every step. A Kodak is
equally good, too, for pictures
round vour home.
J
The No. 2c Autographic Kodak Junior a
splendid camera for amateurs— makes pic-
tures 2| x 4-f inches. Price 75/6.
Make your prints on
“Eutona” Self-toning Collodion Paper.
Prints in sunlight, and you can watch the progress of the printing.
Requires fixing only—the gold is in the paper. It gives a fine
range of rich tones —has a matt surface—simple in use —requires
no dark-room.
Of till Kodak dealers, and-
KOD AK( Australasia) LTD. 9
Incorporating Baker and Rouse Prop. Ltd.,
379 George St., Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
250-252 Queen St., Brisbane; The Valley; 37 Bundle St,,
Adelaide; 45 .Elizabeth St., Hobart; Buthven St., Toowoomba:
Flinders St., Townsville; Denham St., Rockhampton; Optical
and Photo Supplies Co., Perth; 109-111 Dixon Street, Wel-
lington, N.Z. (Wholesale) ; “The Kodak Corner,” corner
Lambton Quay and Willis St., Wellington, N.Z. (Retail);
3 Lome St., Auckland, N.Z. (Wholesale); 76 Stuart St.,
Dunedin, N.Z. (Wholesale); and 148 Idchfleld St.. Christchurch,
N.Z. (Wholesale).
ummummo
Celebrity and Plum
_ Label
m
Eegd. Trade Mark.
iimmiuiumunE
The Symbol of Supremacy!
the best-known trade-mark in the world
be your guide when buying talking machines
or records. The Dog at the Gramophone
—“His Master’s Voice”—is to-day more than a
mere trade-mark. It is a symbol of supremacy; it
stands for superb quality, unlimited variety in music,
merriment and song.
Look for the Dog Trade-mark —nothing - is “ His
Master’s Voice” that does not carry it.
Write to us and we will send you the complete catalogues listing
thousands of titles ; also the address of the nearest
“His Master’s Voice” dealer.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.,
163 Pitt Street SYDNEY.
“GRAMOPHONE.”
Regd. Trade Mark.


Sydney’s Hotel de Luxe.
Clifton Gardens
This beautifully-situated RESIDENTIAL
HOTEL is unique in the Southern Hemi-
sphere, being RIGHT ON THE HARBOR
FRONT, with its own secluded BEACH AND
GROUNDS and AMPHITHEATRE SWIM-
MING BATHS, the whole surrounded by
natural Bush.
25 Pine New Bedrooms have just
been erected, built over the water,
every room looking out to the Heads.
Daily service of Steamers, including Theatre
Boat, to and from No. i Jetty, Circular
Quay.
A Delightful Ferry Trip.
Fiqest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths.
Apply Manager,
CLIFTON GARDENS HOTEL.
Telephones: Y3OOl. MOSMAN, N.S.W.
Y 3002.
A Real Baking-Day Help
that makes certain your success with your
cooking is
IRELAND’S
Baking Powder
It has been tried out and recommended by
good cooks everywhere for its purity, uni-
form high quality and dependable leavening
properties.
Use it in your pastry. See how light and
flaky the crusts turn out. And they are
easily digested.
Your cakes, scones, etc., will be greatly
improved by using Ireland’s Baking
Powder.
J. IRELAND, LTD., Newcastle
m
AU b 3
o y
s o
LIFTING THE EMBARGO.
Everybody remembers the early days of
the War, when, after the first shock was
over, and it was found that no German
miracle had happened, and that “Britannia
still ruled the waves,” there was confident
talk of “business as usual.” But we had
reckoned without the submarine, that hither-
to dark factor. Little by little it perfected
itself, and little by little, if it could not of
itself break the spell which the British fleet
put upon Germany, it began to put a spell
of its own upon Great Britain, until she
found herself compelled to cease “business as
usual” and, in order to conserve supplies for
her own people, to prohibit absolutely the
exnort of all foodstuffs abroad. It is over
18 months since the prohibition was put in
force and since any shipment of Bournville
or Cadbury's Cocoa or Chocolates left Eng-
land. For some time past Cadbury’s Aus-
tralian warehouses have been empty of every-
thing in the nature of cocoa or chocolate, and
have been largely occupied by various depart-
ments of Red Cross activities.
The many and insistent inquiries that are
being made day by day are a gratifying indi-
cation of the favored place which Cadbury s
and Bournville Cocoas and Chocolates con-
tinue to hold in public esteem. With early
resumption of Britain-Australia shipping, in-
dicated in the cables now appearing in our
newspapers, there is good reason to expect
that the British prohibition on the export ot
foodstuffs will soon be removed, and that the
lifting of the embargo which prevents the
importation of chocolate into this country
will proceed pari passu, and that the demand
for Bournville Cocoa and Cadbury’s Choco-
late may be met. —Advt.
POVERTY
POINTS
MOET &
CHANDON
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
“Row A.” : I have never yet seen an actor
who didn’t look like one.
Major Finn, whom Dolly Castles married
in New York the other day, belongs to the
A.1.F., and in civvy times is an eye special-
ist in Perth.
“Jean S.” : Irene Brown never did any-
thing better in Australia than Ann White-
held in “Man and Superman.” It was about
the first part in which she was allowed to
escape from the stereotyped futilities of the
ordinary stage-heroine and indulge in a bit
of man-play without plagiarising the vam-
pire “business” of the screens; and she
showed she enjoyed the holiday by playing
Miss Whitefield with capital comedy effects.
Two or three others, all amateurs, have done
Ann in Melbourne, but Irene was the first
to invest it with physical allurement. Julius
Knight could only perfunctorily simulate the
terrors of Tanner against such a dazzling
proposition. As a matter of fact, she pushed
him right out of the picture. The only per-
son who could compare with Irene in the
show was the late Maggie Knight (Mrs.
Whitefield), whose air of despairing aston-
ishment at the audacities of her -daughter
was something to chuckle over and remem-
ber.
“Private Boxer”: The three-pounds-a-
week song-and-dance people connected with
the Melbohrne theatres were hard hit over
the recent “resting” they were forced to
indulge in. The want of an association to
protect their interests was borne in upon
them; wherefore they have lost no time in
organising themselves, and are now affili-
ated. with the Musicians’ Union. A case of
“Legs Talionis.”
“Norbell”: As “Machete” says (B.
13/3/T9), it was quite impossible for old
Ned Holloway to hide his identity under
any stage disguise, and as he couldn’t play
a double without being instantly recog-
nised, the effect was often very confusing
to the audience. In the dressing-room once
I heard Alfred Dampier spin a yarn about
it, and old Ned, who was present, laughed
as heartily as we youngsters. Said Dam-
pier: -“We were doing ‘East Lynne’ in Adel-
aide, and Mr. Holloway was doubling the
parts of Lord Mount Severn and Bullock,
the policeman, in his usual inimitable man-
ner. Some sanctimonious friends of Mrs.
Dampier’s came to the theatre for the first
time in their lives, to see my daughter
Lily play Isabel. After the show they told
us tearfully how deeply they had been stirred
by the beautiful moral story. To my
daughter they said: ‘Oh, Lily dear, you see
the awful consequences of sin! Not only
was poor, erring Lady Isabel lost, but all
her relatives seem to have been dragged
down. Her uncle, for instance, Lord Mount
Severn, was rich, dignified, respected by all, a
typical English earl, yet the effect of Lady
Isabel’s fall has such a terrible influence
on him that he grows utterly reckless, and
in the last act we see him an intemperate
village constable.’ ”
“J.” : After the ’flu close-up I found that
all Sydney theatres barring Fullers’ remained
the same comfortless resorts. The Cri. and
Royal dress-circle and stalls are instruments
of torture. Her Majesty’s is a shade better,
but only a shade. Theatres are going up
in the suburbs whose 2s. stalls are far less
agonising than the 7s. 6d. ones in the city.
At the Palace, the Empire or the Alhambra
in London, not to mention the Ambassadors
and other new or just-renovated houses, it
is possible to sit through an evening as
comfortably as if one had not left home.
How long will it be before the front of the
house in Australia starts to modernise itself?
“0.K.”: Adelina Patti has had a 76th
birthday. Marriage into warious nationali-
ties seems to have agreed with her. Her
first husband was the Marquis de Caux, a
Frenchman. After the divorce she married
an Italian tenor; and she found a third
husband in der Baron Cederstrom, a Swede.
But she owes most to the tenor: when her
voice was in greatest need of attention, he
used to hover around and supervise her feed-
ing, checking her tendency to eat what wasn’t
good for her top note.
Mrs. Vernon Castle, dancer and wearer of
brilliant frocks in the movies, speaks up for
her late husband, who seems to have been
better known in the U.S.A. even than her-
self. He gave his life in avoiding a colli-
sion brought on by a less skilful army flier.
The Yankee papers called it glorious self-
sacrifice, but hinted that it redeemed a use-
less life. His widow protests against the
American idea “that a performer is like the
parts he plays. Women who play vampires
on the stage, or in the movies, are credited
by a part of the public wfith knowing their
business from the inside, and with being
personally guilty of everything, except per-
haps arson. So a man who plays a fool must
be a fool.” Vernon Castle had to play the
fool on the stage nearly all his time, because
he did it so well. But dancing was his
strongest point. The Actors’ Association
after his death credited him with “the evolu-
tion of the modern dance.”
“Adam”: “V.’s” remarks (B. 13/3/T9)
re the disinclination of the modern girl to
play the piano is partly true. But marriage
and picture-shows are not entirely to blame.
The price of music is a big item. Doreen
isn’t too keen on tinkling out old school-day
pieces like “The Robin’s Return” or others
of its kind. She yearns for the latest songs
or some plaintive melody heard at a recent
concert. But the cost of these ephemeral
things is prohibitive. Albums of popular
pieces and songs are published in England
and America at small prices; but the big
music firms can’t find room for them in Aus-
tralia.
“FAUST,” AT MELBOURNE
PRINCESS’S.
Fred Collier as Mephistopheles, and Augusto
Balboni as Faust.
“Ex-Pigtail”: Mention of Eugenie le
Grand’s name in “Melbourne Chatter” re-
minds me that the late Dr. Neild told me
she was brought to Australia by tragedian
Fairclough. He was playing Shakspeare
and the pretty French girl was struggling
hard to make herself intelligible in English.
Fairclough used to tell the story of her
getting confused over some lines of Lady
Anne in “King Richard III.” “Anointed let
me be with deadly venom” is the phrase;
hut Eugenie stuck, looked desperate, and
finally declaimed: “Rub me all over with
poisoned oil.”
“Orb”: Bob Hollyford, once juvenile
lead for Dan Barry, now tours the Back-
blocks with a “Dan Barry” bellow co.,
playing all Dan’s shockers, and maintain-
ing the traditions of the old hustler. Bob
is nearly up to the Barry standard as a
curtain spruiker. I heard him at the little
prickly-pear town of Gayndah (Q.). A
terrifying explosion ended Act 4 of “A
Gilded Sin” and rattled the audience a
bit. Hollyford, as the hero, dashed in front
of the rag just as it fell. “Don’t be alarmed,
ladies and gents,” he said, “there’s nobody
hurt except the villain, and he. only had one
leg blown off. We’ll patch him up in time
for to-morrow night, when we will present
the stupendous, thrilling, emotional and sen-
sational drama, written by a well-known
Queensland clergyman, entitled: ‘ W hen
the Sea Gives Up Its Dead,’ which is tall
of heart interest and real water effects.
Prices as usual.”
“Freda Bendigo”: Kathlene Macdonell
has just opened in New York in “The Net,”
which has two good acts and one that should
be sent to the cobbler’s. Charles Mill-
ward, who played with the Muriel Starr
co. in Australia, is also in the cast. Charles
Waldron got into harness as soon as he
reached New York. He’s playing in "The
Woman in the Thirteenth Room”—which
is no relation to the “Thirteenth Chair.”
Which recalls that Margaret Wycherley is
soon to appear on Broadway in a new
Bayard Veiller play.
“0.5.”: We shall see Annette Kellerman
in the movies again directly, this time as
Queen of the Seas, with about 200
beautiful mermaids in her train. As before,
the location is somewhere in the Bermudas,
which are rich in beaches and caves and
forests that a good God grew specially for
the films.
Harry Lauder will arrive in Australia at
the latter end of April under engagement to
the Taits.
Walter Bentley is likely to return to the
stage at the instigation of Hugh Ward.
“BUBBLY,” AT SYDNEY PALACE.
John Junior enjoys himself i n So ng.
“Peter”: Florence Baines, whose death
is reported, was one of the few stage
ladies who won the royal regard of the
late Tummus Bent. Though a notorious
connoisseur, Bent was rather shy of the
stage type owing to a previous experience
which had cost him a bag ol’ money and
driven him hurriedly abroad. But the
sight of Florence dissipated ail his caution
and he was soon elaborating a willing flirta-
tion. One of his first acts was to buy a
box for the season and load her foreground
with chocolates and vegetables. Tommy’s
nightly roars at her broadest comedy effects
became part of the programme, and he
filled in all her vacant dates with suppers
and joyrides. One night, however, the
romance ended suddenly—collapsed, pro-
bably, from sheer overweight. At the time
the combined tonnage of the pair could not
have been less than 35 stone, and their
aggregate waist-measurement was three
rimes the distance to St. Kilda and back.
“Floater”: The late Arthur Humble-
Crofts, the tall and superiah young hus-
band whom Margaret Cooper included in
her luggage in Australia, was the son of
an English parson. In addition to burn-
ing cigarettes, he spent a languid hour each
day in autographing his wife’s photos for
the herd of admirers her art is alleged' to
have collected. Not “Margaret Gooper,”
but “Margaret Cooper ilumble-Crofts”
Arthur wrote in a sort of Gothic back-
hand, and the flourishes that festooned the
enormous name made the “Humble” seem
an anomaly. Arthur distributed cartloads
of these pictures, and, as his practice
grew, “Margaret” and “Crofts” loomed
larger while the rest grew smaller, until
the blessed signature looked like a tel-
escoped train.
“Goodo”: Interesting to compare the
methods of this season’s pantomime “dames,”
Stigant and Lupino. The former we have
known for long as an incisive, slightly-vulgar
old tongue-'wagger, with a lickerish enjoy-
ment of her own funniments and at intervals
giving an exhibition of a little dancing and
much underwear. Lupino’s old geezer is
fresher and cleaner. The mummer has a
keener sense of character and the art of
pantomime and does not force his points.
Indeed, he scores the more by his artistic
avoidance of point-making. Also he doesn't
laugh at his own jokes. He is, in fact,
quite sad over them at times, and his husky
voice and generally drab, downcast air
greatly help the fun. Then, again, Lupino
is a born dancer. Though both experienced
mimes are tip-top laughter-producers, I
fancy the Tait “dame” gets home in advance
of the l&dy at the J.C.W. establishment.
“C. Ockney” : At a London Labor Demon-
stration held in the Albert Hall in sup-
port of President Wilson’s League of Nations
policy. Shaw appeared ou the platform, and
was greeted with cries of “What trade-union
do you belong to?” G.B.S. naturally went
for a laugh—not to mention an ad. —in his
reply, and got it with: “I belong to the
Authors’ Association, and I get my living
mostly by piece-work.” It was possibly the
eminent farceur’s way of reminding the
Laborites that he couldn’t be accused of any
war-work.
“Ibsenshaw”: “The more you know about
our business,” a theatrical manager once
said to me, “the less you know.” We wore,
for instance, assured by those in the know
that war-plays were unacceptable to the
Australian public. Certainly large numbers
stayed away from “London Pride” (an ex-
cellent British specimen, if I’m any judge)
and “Out There” (not so good and at a dis-
advantage in following the former piece,
which it much resembled in detail). Again,
many experienced entrepreneurs have voiced
the opinion that a movie representation of a
play before or during the theatrical produc-
tion of it does the spoken show harm at the
box-ofiiee. Both these contentions go by the
board in face of the hit “The Better ’Ole”
comedy is scoring. It proves that the
theatrical business still remains the biggest
gamble on earth.
“0.K.”: Melbourne Age, praising the
'young nrima donna’s performance in “Faust”
and “Lucia,” said: “There can be no doubt
that in Miss Gertrude Johnson Mr. Frank
Rigo and Mr. Slapoffski have discovered an
artist who will go far along the road of
fame.” Discovered? Why, months and
months ago, when Filippini organised a little
opera co. for a tour in Queensland, the name
ot Gertrude Johnson was freely paragraphed.
The “discovery” dates hack to a year ago.
“J.F.H.” (London) : Melba has not reached
us yet; but someone has been talking to her
by wireless, and she has promised to make
her first post-war appearance at the Coli-
seum at a Sunday charity matinde promoted
by the National Union of Journalists. Ellen
Terry and Forbes-Robertson are also on the
programme.
“Agrieota”: Tell “V.” (B. 13/3/T9) that
the silent piano is often the monument of
some obstinately conservative teacher. Most
teachers believe in the “thorough” system,
which means that the first two years are
spent in scale and exercise- drill. All chil-
dren, whether gifted or not. are taught on
the same rigid plan. Result is that many
give it best. My method is to teach the
mediocre student to play by playing the
things she is likely to need to play; and
also to teach her how to learn them for
herself. There are few unused pianos in the
districts I pervade. But, of course, I am a
heretic.
DEVIL’S DUES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Devil's no devil in evening-dress. Where
Hell’s concerned it’s red tights or nothing.”
—-“Sundry Shows’’ maxim..
That Satan sorrows we were shown by Marie
Caine—
Or was it Hall Corelli? —-and I thirik he would
explain,
If his Most Satanic Majesty were given half a chance,
That lie’s sorriest of all when in the realms of song-
and-dance ;
For they take away his character (e’en devils have
their rights)
When they make him wear dress trousers and they
take away bis tights.
That lie’s much misrepresented unmistakably it shows,
For the Devil can’t be devilish in modern evening
clu’es;
Though Hamlet in a “suit of solemn black” is sure
to please,
His color is the hectic red of Mephistoplieles.
S;> if he must be shown upon the public stage o’
nights.
Oh, let him feel at home, poor wretch ! Give him
liia scarlet tights 1
Unless correctly dressed a mummer never “feels” his
part;
So what price poor Old Nick —he gets his tail down
for a start!
Who would give up his evenings and leave a cheerful
fire,
To risk a cool reception in unsuitable attire?
A fair deal for the Devil! He no doubt remembers
slights—
Before he raises Hell, oh, give him back his scarlet
tights 1
VICTORIA.
EARDLEY TURNER.
JULIET IN QUARANTINE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
An elaborate Shakspearean season promised to New
York theatre-goers has been postponed because the
expected Juliet was detained in quarantine.
Poor Romeo in loneliness
Must sigh the long night through,
With nought to love, nought to caress,
And nothing much to do.
He stands in dusty state “behind,”
And views the painted scene—-
His Juliet so fair and kind is Held in quarantine'!
In vain may Cupid beat his wings
Against the legal bars,
In vain the lovesick hero sings
And moons upon the stars.
While all Verona sits and waits,
With pale, indignant mien,
Fair Juliet behind the gates must fret in quarantine.
She may not seek the darkling tomb
In sentient eclipse,
Nor vjildly sip the juice of doom
, From her dead lover’s lips.
That Romeo, Mercutio,
And Tybalt may be clean
Of ’flu, sweet Juliet they throw in hated quarantine.
But I a version new would show,
Bring Shakspeare up to date,
And o’er the wall send Romeo
To seek his tethered mate.
I’d have the germs of Spanish 'flu
With poison intervene,
And finish where the doting two peg out in quaran-
tine.
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


vV* v~-*V •- 1
iv. ■ t .’r-'* •>*/•’«• ~N *. * v - '* *
i/: v*. j
.P v r: .’-y v...
•»'••>•• t .'V, < .•. . :•
••rfa-r-.
y**-/
ra
3\> • •*': V •*
v-S
jv*
v‘.~V '*>•
*T» J*
< /**■
NT/
“•»v
•rr
«£tf
Kr
■tvjV*
•.“ ;\:<t r' ; -
• ■ vi' =;■•>.4jt2
NBH
ta
- v **•:
y?.
:.». r-
, •• •
w *
i-y? t
V /
V\>
\c>yi\
•*;
"3
■
I
f.VVvi' •
y.-'j > y* x,. - '*/,
:-T.i
‘•j £':
S.r
X .-•-) >-v: y ,v<* 7 «•_
.:■>
'v ; ‘ V
'-jv ::-x.
* . .•V V •
n.. v' , >5- /r ...
:• v < x. ,Cv A
s\C, •> f A'.
&'S. :
' <x-/ v
•T./f
\
■-. - Cy
•Si2®wV*s
v»
:<#£■ Vj.: > <
/ •.•>-. Sv <,rt .'v ( r ►
% y
«r:
• : ‘i’-
tlf?
: ’,y/). : v
•»:.• ?- K .’-f
./•
;.V<s
Gtftgt n -
-■c >/$ \tV:V
•■**..,vv : ;v^
*<C. " V V
vV .
Vx'/’
x /;
; A >
■^v.;
A -
Krk
/ x- .
?>>VN.v!/ \ S ' • ” • \
v v
\n
Y-..;'
IP
\
v
,*X >H-/
‘•VX
* •■; . . 'sx . <■< .'-
••: ;■ ,■ .:. ....• ■• :v , '
. x-7- Vy*s%
’ -Cy i
iHi
X;-
Hi'v
•<: : vlx:
-.■l«
r;
mm
(£
/T'
*
w7s\
w s V
WfM
»*,. *.*s;
;/ -■' ••: ... ■<■ ,Ay y>-i\
/ •••■ •';■,; •;. y.rxi'.cf I
'i.X“;. '•••V-'.. < >'-‘Sf.%
*'•>*.;. > X,.-;■.... ■'•ir-'y.//, \
W^mm
. n/ s ;’
fe>:x ; ;.':::.';.Vv.^'\
V. i.rxv. i r - •'»
r^<^^VX ; :.vxV.,
The Car of Quality.
Out o’Doors
Ride the road of the great Outdoors!
Be healthier, happier—drive an Overland.
A model of your very heart’s desire is included in the complete range of
Overland motor cars. There is a car that will make you proud yet will meet
your purse.
For you cannot find greater value. The huge production of Overlands
makes possible vast economies, and unusual benefits to you.
Look at an Overland a glance will convince you of its
excess value. Ask for the “85 Four” model, for example (see
illustration). There is nothing in the world like it for all-’round
utility. Big four-inch tyres, great reserve engine power, fine
appearance; simple control, comfortable, long lasting. And it is
completely equipped - ready for the road.
A demonstration and catalogues are obtainable from
Australian
Distributors
GARRATTS LTD., Sydney
KELLOW-FALKINER PTY. LTD., Melbourne
AUTO-CARS LTD., Adelaide
EAGER & SON, Brisbane
ANDERSON & ADAMS LTD., Perth
H. G. HEATHORNE & CO. LTD., Hobart.
A. HAT RICK & CO., Wanganui, N.Z.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION,
Christchurch, N.Z.
WILLYS-OVERLAND, Inc,
1779 Toledo, Ohio, U. S. A,
Immediate
.
Delivery.


Ml
Cb/iscrti&
SYDNEY OR BRISBANE.
MOTOR OILS
Money cannot buy better lubricant than
National High-grade Motor Oils. Their
high flash-point and wonderful viscosity
mean evenly maintained power and maxi-
mum engine protection. There’s a grade
to suit YOUR engine.
Obtainable all Garages and Storekeepers
In 1-gallon tins, 4-gallon tins and barrels.
Ask also for National Motor Greases.
NATIONAL. Oil, CO., LTD.,
4 Bridge Street. Sydney.
JAMES WABDLE & CO.,
Victoria Square, Adelaide.
&5^
✓
C T&voutn,\ i (JcJvnr
MARK YOUR LINEN
PERSONAL OR HOUSEHOLD—
to save loss or exchange under
and circumstances —WITH
[@s
NAMES
World Famed for Quality. Any
name woven on Fine Cambric in
fast colors. Easily sewn on.
Prices—7/6 for 12d0z., 5/- for 6doz.,
3/6 for 3doz.
SOLO BY ALL BEST DRAPERS.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
J. & J. Cash Pty. Ltd.
85 Cubitt Street, Richmond, VIC.
Write for Style Book. [2
DRAWS FROM THE BLOOD
THE POISONS
which cause Bad Legs, Sore Feet, Car-
buncles, Boils. Varicose Ulcers, Bunions,
Eczema, Piles, etc., and those arising from
Insect and Mosquito Bites.
The Proprietors of Grasshopper Ointment
have an absolute confidence in its unsur-
passed merits. They know it to be a safe
and perfect cure for all skin and blood ail-
ments; and the vast number of testimonials
received prove, it to be. Grasshopper Oint-
ment positivelydraws the which pro-
(111-6 these maladies out of the system As
an aperient, liver medicine and blood purifier,
the Grasshopper Pills are equally effective,
and should be taken in conjunction with the
Ointment. Sold by all Drug Stores and
Chemists thyiughom the Commonwealth.
Missing Friends.
MELIA GILLESPIE, last heard of
about ISS9, then about to get married.
Brother inquires. Information Bulletin
Office,
“Expanse” Conduit Fittings
REGD.
<^expanseT>
TRADE MARK.
GRIP TEES ?'
GRIP ELBOWS r
GRIP COUPLINGS f
“EXPANSE” Conduit Fittings are made from
best malleable iron, accurately bored, drilled and
tapped, fitted with brass screws and bright stove
enamelled. They conform in every respect with
the specifications of the Fire Underwriters and
are high-grade fittings at a moderate price.
THE AOSTRALECTRIC COMPANY,
97 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Telegrams: “Expanse,” Sydney. ’Phones^ClTY.
Conducted by Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Ltd.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER <%haS> BRAND
Containing about 95.75% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various grades.
HIGH-GRADE ZINC DUST
Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS:
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited,
“Collins House,” 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
HOTEL ESPLANADE,
PERTH’S PREMIER HOTEL.
Facing: the Swan River and Indian. Ocean. An ideal situation.
Close to Post Office, Banks, etc. ALL MODERN CONVENIENCES.
M. A. BEAVOR, Proprietress.
Pen
The Self-filling
Safety Fountain
No Shortage of Supplies. Am pie Stocks throughout Australia.
ORLICK'S
MALTED
MILK
Baby knows the difference.
He knows what makes him feel good,
happy, and contented.
You know that he thrives upon this
easily assimilated, nourishing food,
therefo e insist on always having
Horlick's Malted Milk for him.
Write far sample, sending 2d. jd
stamps to HUTCHINSON & Co., Ltd..
2G_ Jamieson Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Vai.e of Clwydd Coal and Brick Co.,
late the Vale of Clwydd Goal Mining Co.
(N.S.W.) :
To Re- Re-
trofits. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1912.. £2658 10 p.c. = £2250 £4OB £10,851
l)ec., 1912.. 3511 10 „ ~ 2250 1261 12,112
June, 1913.. 6364 10 „ „ 3000 3364 15,476
Assets written up and £15,000 capitalised.
Dec.', 1913.. 6429 10 p.c. = 3000 3429 18,905
June, 1914.. 6316 10 „ ~ 3000 3316 22,221
Cash Bonus from special profits, £7500.
Dec., 1914.. 4414 10 p.c. = 3000 1414 23,635
June, 1915.. 3396 10 „ „ 3000 396 24,031
Bonus, 12*,, ~ 7 500 i 14704
Dropped out of Reserves, £ 1747 ) ’
Dec., 1915.. 2853 10 p.c. = 3000 --- 14,642
June, 1916.. 2917 10 „ „ 3000 14,559
Written off renewals reserve, £ 1570 12,989
Dec., 1916.. 2634 10 p.c. = 3000 12,623
June, 1911.. 2955 10 „ „ 3000 12,578
Dec., 1917.. 2905 10 „ ~ 3000 12,483
Written off renewals reserve, £303 12,180
June, 1918.. 2978 10 p.c. = 3000 —12.15 S
Dec., 1918.. 4170 10 ~ „ 3000 1170 13,328
For the first time in ‘6l years are the half’s
disclosed profits sufficient to pay tin' 10 p.c.
div. But it is not much use taking for
granted that disclosed figures indicate true
net profits. Since a coal-mine is a wasting
asset, besides paying divs. to shareholders
the management has to set aside portion of
its profits to allow of a return of capita!
when there is nothing left of the mine except
the hole in the ground. This depreciation
allowance is generally made on the quiet,
and the.only way to get an idea of what is
happening is to watch the growth of net
liquid assets. Since Dec., 1916, only £705
has been added to visible reserves; never-
theless the liquid surplus has advanced in
this wav
Dec., 1916. Dec., 1918.
Liquid assets .. ..£18,870 £22,710
Liabilities .. .. 1,922 2,633
Surplus .. ..£16,948 £20,077
So after paying 10 p.c. p.a. on capital and
making considerable additions to plant (the
item stood in the books at £8514 two years
ago and £12,111 at Dec. 31 last), the posi-
tion has improved by £3129 since 1916.
Compared with the record of other periods
there is nothing very fat about the per-
formance. On the other hand, there’s
nothing to growl about. What is to be the
outcome of the latest unrest among the
miners it is too early to forecast; the
Clwydd is lucky to be in the district where
their leaders don’t seem to have gone quite
mad.
Some years ago the co. decided to take on
bricks as a side-line, and six years ago over
£ll,OOO had been put into works and plant.
But chiefly owing to the collapse of the
building boom there has been very little in
it. This shows the profits which have
found their way into the parent co.’s P. and
L. account: —•
Dec., 1912.. £944 June, 1916.. £437
Dec., 1913.. 320 Dec., 1916.. 375
June, 1914.. 215 June, 1917.. 71
Dec.. 1914.. 882 Dec., 1917.. 23
June, 1915.. 995 June, 1918.. 47
Dec., 1915.. 217 Dec., 1918.. 177
Whether sufficient or more than sufficient
depreciation was allowed before bringing in
these profits cannot be ascertained, of
course. The book value of the enterprise
has, however, gradually been written down
to £9OOO.
* * * *
“Fed-up” has met a problem :
Although only a worker I took three £lO bonds
in the last loan, and made haste to pay same up.
Lately I wished to trade one away to pay an insur-
ance premium. Although bearing interest at 5 per
cent, the company advised me to sell the bond
through a broker, and it would then credit me with
the proceeds, about £9 15s. 6d., less brokerage.
Why should this be?
Why should something that was worth £lO
a few months ago be worth only £9 15s 6d.
now? Well, there are several reasons; but
the chief one is that £lO won’t to-day buy
more than £9 15s. 6d. did some months ago.
When tlie bricklayer goes slow, up goes the
cost of a building; and up goes the rent the
workman has to pay. But the man who
owns bonds has to pay rent, too. “It costs
me more to live,” he says; “I must get more
interest.” The 5 p.c. is a fixed rate; but
he gets a higher rate by offering less than
£3O for the £lO bond. When “Fed-up”
bought those bonds he became a capitalist;
and like others of the breed he finds that his
capital isn’t worth as much as it was because
w'hat it earns won’t buy as much in labor or
goods as it used to. On the other hand, if
living became cheap, “Fed-up” would get
more than £lO for his £lO bond, because
competing purchasers would be content with
less than 5 p.c. interest.
* * * *
8., M. and Co. count for very little in the
West nowadays. At one time they either
bossed or had a say in the management of
nearly every big gold-mine in the State, but
differences with the Boards lost them con-
trol of some, and when Hoover retired from
the firm they lost more. A number of
shows collapsed for want of either capital
or gold, while others again became worked
out. Now the Sons of Gwalia is the only
one left. Apparently the present controllers
of the firm do not see any more in sight, as
their manager’s house, 'at the back of the
Westralian head office at Kalgoorlie, was
sold the other day.
* * * *
All sorts of dodges are being tried by
“sheplierders” in the West to hold unworked
ground, and according to a story which
comes from the Murchison this is liow one
managed to pull through. He had an area
alongside the main road. The labor condi-
tions required two men. He pottered about
the surface until others cast covetous eyes
on his show, and then he decided on a plan
to outwit them. He filled a hide bucket
with rock and awaited the approach of any-
one. _ As soon as passers-by got within
hearing distance he would call out “Below
there!” and straightway haul the bucket to
the surface and empty it just as travellers
were passing. He held on in this way until
the boom came and someone bought him out.


11
v
a ’«
ss
L_J
P
L
II I
1
■
ffe=>
SI
r A
lD
sit
-
Let the G. T. M. Solve Your
Problem of Power Transmission
pOWER
as a driving force is useless until it is harnessed and applied,
power is either conserved or lost —and the element of lost power
serious problem of industrial management —in exact proportion to the
of the means of transmission.
Similarly
is a most
efficiency
This then is the big problem of industrial
engineering—to apply the energy generated at
the point of operation spontaneously, and to its
utmost limit or in any lesser degree, with
absolute certainty and precision.
The engineer and machine operator in every
plant and factory throughout the land has this
same problem of the transmission of power to
solve, plus such individual characteristics as
distinguish differing types of machines and their
varying uses.
This highly technical study calls for an unusually
wide experience of power drives. Besides loss
of power the cost of belting in the equipment of
any plant is serious if replacement becomes
frequent through wrong application or un-
satisfactory service or wear.
Two things plainly are needed, an analysis of the
conditions of each individual drive, and the
prescription for it of the Goodyear Belt manu-
factured especially for that purpose.
The Goodyear Technical Man is at your call for just
this service. His specialised knowledge and
continuous experience of results will assist you
to secure not only the maximum service in belts,
and the consequent economies of factory
operation, but will ensure the effective trans-
mission of power with its accompaniment of
maximum output of machines or plant.
Our specification of Goodyear Belting carries
with it the acceptance of responsibility for its
satisfactory operation and wear. Write in to
our nearest branch for particulars of the G.T.M.
service, which are free for the asking.
Stocks of Goodyear Mechanical Rubber Goods are now carried throughout Australia by
ELDER,
ADELAIDE,
SMITH & CO., LIMITED
MELBOURNE, SYDNEY, BRISBANE. PERTH.
B ELTI N G ■ HOSE
.; : .
m
MPM
VA LVBS 1


“Unalloyed” Dyes
The dyes used in Hose
cf Luxite are “unalloyed”— not
loaded with heavy metallic conv
pounds to give the hose a glossy,
heavy appearance.
The soft, full-bodied shimmer of
Hose of Luxite is gained by. the
use of rich, fine-stitched materials
pure-dyed.
That is why its elegance and
beauty last through repeated wash'
ings.
The wide range of styles and
prices will suit every purse and
purpose.
Don’t accept substitutes, and
tlnnk you have “Luxite.”
Insist upon the genuine.
If your dealer is unable to
supply you, write us.
Walter Cathro Pty. Ltd.,
York Street : : Sydney.
ITZ’S
CIDER
KITTS
PURE SPARKUNC APPLE JUICE
“BOTTLES OF JOY.”
Every glassful of “Kite’s” is a positive
thirst quencher; every bottle is a bottle
of joy and health. Have you ever had
a longing for a drink that would
definitely quench your thirst ? Just try
“Kitz’s” Cider. It quenches and revives,
puts “pep” in you, and is healthful
and nutritious, too.
Get the Kitz Cider Habit—
It’s a Habit that won’t get you.
In Baby Bottles at Hotels and Cafes—
Quarts and Pints at Stores.
AGENTS-
SYDNEY: Tucker & Co. Ltd., Caldwell’s
Wines Ltd.
BRISBANE: Burns, Philp & Co.
TOWNSVILLE: Burns, Philp & Co.
CAIRNS: Burns, Philp & Co.
GERALDTON: A. H. Mountain & Co.
ROCKHAMPTON: J. M. Headrick & Co.
ADELAIDE: W. P. Auld & Sons Ltd.
PERTH: Philp Coyle.
HOBART: Ferguson & Co.
LAUNCESTON: John McKenzie & Co.
Brandt’s Instantaneous
Bath Water Heater
(foriVAfea *
ms
To Keep Out
the Influenza.
Put a little Disin-
fectant into the
water; it will
guard you against
an attack of the
“ ’FLU.”
“Chips”
Bath
Heater
(as illus-
trated),
PRICE
55/-
We manufacture all kinds of Fumigating
Lamps, Steam Sprayers, Inhalers, etc.
Sales Dept City 7424.
Carbide Dept. City 3209.
Brandt Bros. Ltd.
Lamp Manufacturers!
236 Pitt Street, Sydney; and
338 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
BULLDOG
GRIP
THr SELF VULCANIZING
V PATCH
WILL REPAIR
"Xny size puncture' „
BLOWOUT OR TORN PLACE”
OBTAINABLE AT ALL GARAGES
PRODUCED ENTIRELY
IN AUSTRALIA.
BELLEVUE HOTEL,
Opposite
Queensland Club
and Parliament
Houses.
Overlooking Botanical Gardens.
All Balcony Rooms. Tariff, 15s. per day.
For Constipation
Constipation is dangerous be-
cause it means that poisonous
materials which should have been
expelled from the body are being
retained. The appetite fails, diges-
tion becomes disordered and the
breath offensive. Pinkettes, the new
laxative, are a real help in correct-
ing constipation.
They do not aggravate the com-
plaint as strong purgatives do; and
they do not wear out in their effects.
Taken according to directions they
assist the patient so that the use of
an opening medicine is not a con-
stant necessity.
1/- per bottle at all dealers.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “The Bulletin.’
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
YOUR
FOOTWEAR
either makes or mars your appear-
ance, therefore you should exercise
the utmost care in its selection.
ABBEY SHOES
are always correct in style, perfect
in fit, and give the utmost in long
service.
They are made in half and full
sizes, and in three fittings—narrow,
medium and wide.
We illustrate a special Patent
Derby Shoe, in a very smart, made-
to-order style.
Price - 4 51-
Also in Tan Willow Calf, same
price. ,
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
THE. PALACE HOTEL
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OF PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
JOHN T. GLOWREY, Proprietor.
BOSTOCK’S—THE ECONONY SHOE POLISH
We wish to stress the fact that ECONOMY is one of the chief attributes of
Bostock Shoe Dressings. It is economical by virtue of the fact that it is more
than a mere polish.
Containing, as it'does, ingredients which nourish and preserve the leather, it gives
longer life to footwear.
With the cost of shoes mounting
higher and higher, the daily use
of Bostock’s, with its leather-
preserving qualities, is particu-
larly desirable.
THE SIGN OF
A GOOD SHINE
Colors: Black, Brown, Dark
Brown, Ox Blood and White.
In Bottles and Tubes.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Bostock’s Violo Polishes, Ltd.
. . SYDNEY. . .
DIAMONDS as NEW YEAR GIFTS.
No other Gift in the whole list of Valuable Things has such
Personal Appeal as a Diamond Ring.
K23.—£13/10
K79.—£11/10/
KlOl3. —Diamond
and 3 Emeralds,
£lO/10/-
fcIA OUR DIAMONDS
ARE SET IN
PURE PLATINUM
AND 18ct. GOLD.
K923.—£35.
mm
K734.—Diamond
and Emerald
Cluster. £55.
J1040.—£17/10/
£lO/10/
G93.—£10.
CAUL AND INSPECT, or WRITE FOR OCR NEW CATALOGUE
OF USEFUL PRESENTS.
STEWART DAWSONS,
LARGEST JEWELLERS OF THE EMPIRE,
STRAND CORNER, SYDNEY.
A REALISED AMBITION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In youth the gifted Angus strove
With eager zeal to make his way.
He worked by night, he did not rove
On foolish pleasure-trips by day.
“I’ll write what sells, and all I can,
Till I’m an independent man.
“And when I have enough to live
Upon in simple style, my chaste
And noble books the world I’ll give,
And heed no more the vulgar taste.”
At forty Angus still must plan
To be an independent man.
He houses had, and bonds, and shares.
Good living gained he from them all.
He tumbled out his common wares,
His sheaves of pars, and verses small.
He said: “In five or six years’ span
I’ll be an independent man.”
He died at sixty, writing “stuff,"
And left his heirs a modest pile.
No work of his is good enough
To live; but rogues have writ with guile
His epitaph for all to scan:
“Here lies an independent man!”
Victoria.
BILLY T.
“Driver”: On the run to La Perouse the
other day, out by the Long Bay Penitentiary,
two flappers were admiring the scenery.
Pointing to the buildings one damsel ex-
plained : “That’s the Men’s Prison, and over
there is the Ladies’ Gaol.”
It was sure to come: “The infant was
baptised with water brought from the river
Jordan.” Every man returning from Pales-
tine is expected by pious friends to have a
few of the Jordan in his kit. Alas.
Hilljim as a leg-puller is incorrigible. And
empty, bottles (in spite of all they say) are
so easily got on most troopships.
“H.E.P.”: Talking about interrupted con-
versations. He is one of the best-known
captains of the tugboat service at Sydney.
Forty-two years ago he left a friend waiting
outside a pub for him, and when he came forth
his friend had gone. Meeting him the other
day, the first thing the captain said was:
“Where did you get to that night?”
That useful branch of the Red Cross
which the lawyers of Sydney took into their
keeping, the Information Bureau, finds itself
almost out of a job. There are still, un-
happily, many missing men not traced, and
it will continue to hunt up information
about them, chiefly from returned men ; but
except for this work the bureau will be
closed.
“Bung”: In a train recently, I had for
fellow-passengers the headmasters of two
city schools and another barrel of learning—
a school inspector, I fancy. Presently the
three started a lively argument respecting
the correct method of parsing the word “like”
in the sentence, “He fled like one pursued.”
They’ told me the disputed passage was part
of the parsing test given to youngsters in the
last bursary examination. Then I grieved
for my boy, who had done his darnedest to
earn a bursary and failed. Perhaps his idea
of how to parse “like” failed to agree with
that of the savant who examined his papers.
“0.K.”: One of the incidental results of
the ’flu scare being declared off in Melbourne
was the resumption of Dr. Price’s mid-day
organ recitals at the Town Hall. Three
times. a week most of the year the city
organist provides half an hour of music, free
of charge, to all who care to drop in during
luncheon-time. A lot of clerks and typistes
do. drop in, and some of the thrifty ones who
bring their lunch to town munch it to the
organ’s stately strains. A ham sandwich
goes remarkably well with certain of Price’s
favorite numbers, and all of them are of the
kind that encourages careful chewing and
promotes good digestion. As an accompanist
to the mid-day meal Price is infinitely pre-
ferable to the stringed trios or quartets that
perform at restaurants.
“D.F.” re old Victorian settlements:—
Port Fairy can put in a claim to be the earliest
settlement in Victoria, according to W. Earle, an
old-timer who published a history of the district. He
alleges that James Wishart, a sealer, discovered the
place on April 25, 1810, and sailed the cutter Fairy
(hence the name) into the mouth of the Moyne, that
Captain John Mills, who afterwards lived at Port
Fairy for many years, visited it in 1826, and that
the bay was a good deal used by other sealers in
those times. Furthermore, Earle asserts that Raby
and Penny had a whaling-station at Port Fairy
before the Hentys first went to Portland in Novem-
ber, 1834. In 1836 there were, according to the
Launceston newspaper of the day, over 100 men
engaged in bay-whaling at Portland and Port Fairy.
John Griffiths, the Launceston shipbuilder and ship-
owner, had a whaling-station on what is still called
Griffiths Island, and about 1840 he built a-schooner
called The Brothers at Port Fairy. That the old-
time whalers made some good hauls at Port Fairj r is
proved by the fact that in the ’sixties several
schooners had a busy time carrying the skeletons to
Melbourne, where they were ground up by bone-dust
manufacturers.
“Waif” : The little island of Majorca has
some history in the printing trade. Caxton’s
first book was printed in England in 1474.
Within 10 years of that time one Nicolas
Calafatti Jenson, nephew of the noted
Isicolas Jenson of Venice, set up a printing-
press in the Carthusian Monastery, of Vall-
demosa, Majorca. This printery continued
for over a hundred years—possibly for sev-
eral centuries. It is not dear whether it
was merged in another house which claims
toehold the world record of continuity. In
1579 —middle of the reign of Elizabeth in
England General Guasp commenced print-
ingin Panama, the capital of Majorca, and the
business has descended from father to son
for 10 generations, and is now going strong
in the hands of Don Felipd Guasp, in the
same location, virtually the same premises
in which it began. Whether or not this
business descended directly from Calafatti’s
monastic printery, it always was and still is
chiefly devoted to work for the church. An
inspection of the Guasp type-cases would
yield the antiquarian some curious study.
ij W ?® ces . the world, probably, have
older type m actual use.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cnbines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares.
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.— City 4246, 2, 4. 6 Spring Street,
Sio! Sydney.
Sydney to England
via
the Allied Route,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, APRIL 2,
SONOMA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Telephone: City 2282. 44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
nankins;. Public Companies, *c.
THE,
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman); WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A.; Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP,
K.C.M.G. ; Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
Gen Bit ai. Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1868.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. 480,000 0 .0
Reserve Fund . . .. .. .. 247,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since ISOS specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.; James Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq.; W. 11. Hart, Esq.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
I1KAI) OI'T'TCE ... BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland,
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £145,000
Directors: MARK SHELDON, Esq., Chairman;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LLD. ; FRANK N.
YARWOOD, Esq. ; HERBERT R. LYSAGIIT,
Esq.,; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq.; Hon. F.
JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.
General Manager : C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector: J. S. Marks.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager : E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 QOeen Street). Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 139 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. 750 000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000) ’
Paid-up . 1,000.000
Uncalled Capital . . . . . . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,345,702
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
susodaa saAiaoau
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
MACDONALD,
HAMILTON 8 CO.
Managing Agents for
Australasian'United Steam Navigation Clm.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co. Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates Ltd.
Blackheath Collieries Limited.
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Shipping:, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
THE “ALL-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN PACIFIC
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES. PRAIRIES. GREAT LAKES.
NIAGARA FALLS. Etc.
SAILINGS TO VANCOUVER, VIA AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (FIJI) AND
HONOLULU.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
SAILINGS ON APPLICATION.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
SAILINGS TO SAN FRANCISCO, VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA
AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Hookings to Any Pari of the United States, Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacilic Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,
“ The Paradise
of the Pacific. ’
A HENEIICIAL SEA TRIP THHOUGH PEACH) SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers.
SAILINGS ON APPLICATION.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing several days’ stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Sui’fing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY— PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
ISLAND TOURS.
Now is the Time to Visit the PACIFIC ISLANDS.
DELIGHTFUL TOURS to
NORFOLK ISLAND and NEW HEBRIDES.
SOLOMON ISLANDS.
PAPUA and RABAUL.
Trips of Four, Five and Seven Weeks’ Duration.
BURNS, PHILP 8 CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Directors:
The Hon. Sir LnaiTes Iv. MacKellar, Iv.C.M.G.
M.L.C., President.
F. B. S. Falkiner. Ksq., M.H.IJ.
The Hon. Reginald .T. Black, M.L.C.
Auditors ; S. E. Laidley, Esq.; A. G. Milson, Esq
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
General Manager: Sir John Russell French, K.B,E.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
336 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
aoijjio avaH
qipwuiuio^)
1
Jfianf^Bustralta
SYDNEY. D
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking Business
inthe Principal Cities and Towns ofAustraliaand Rabaul (Newßritain),
also London (2), and A.I.F. Camps in England.
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and SAVINGS BANK AGENCIES at 2776 Post Offices
throughout Australia, Papua, New Britain, Solomon Islands,
and The Pacific.
JAMES KELL, DENISON MILLER,
Deputy Governor 1919 Governor
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1834.
Capital paid up
Reserve Fund
Reserve Capital
- £2,000,000
- £2,080,000
- £2,000,000
£6,080,000
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Hater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thos. Hughes, M.L.C.
J. W. Macarthur Onslow,
Esq. M.L.A.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Branch: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C.
London Bankers —The Bank of England; The London County and Westminster and
Parr’s Bank. Limited; Barclays Bank, Limited.
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Shipping.
Sydney Inter-State
Sub-Committee.
Intending passengers for other States
are requested to inquire at Quarantine
Department, Customs House, Sydney,
regarding necessary permits required
before sailing.
Permission to break journey at inter-
mediate Ports is suspended
Inter-State Passenger
Sailings
(Circumstances Permitting).
Huddart Parker LIM
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND.—ReguIar sail-
ings between Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand
jorts and vice versa; particulars to be obtained on
ipplication.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA. —From Sydney to
lobart and vice versa every three weeks. Between
Melbourne and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; George Street, Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
1 Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE. DELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA. MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
o include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
hence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwiliumbah,
ail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
iiere connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
uite liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
teamer, £6 11s.; second-class rail and steerage on
learner, £4 ss.
For Guide and all particulars apply;—
’.OO KING OFFICE. 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE FINE TWIN-SCREW STEAMER
“LEVUKA,” 6500 tons,
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
mil Sydney.
The “Levuka” is fitted with wireless and with
■very modern convenience for the comfort of passen-
gers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 26
lays, and from Sydney 18 days. Passengers desiring
i more extended tour can travel by S.S. “Arura,"’
vhich connects at Suva.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street,
Melbourne, or Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.,
) Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL £500,000.
. , ~ ,
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks
; effected on all classes o£
■Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and
Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
BARTIN HAIGH, General Manager.
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda. Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
Tho Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since 15»6. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK .SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road. London, England
... #fl|Yi * ••• * ' ” “ ll
Insist on “Singleton’s”—refuse all substitutes.


To H.M.
Kinfi
George V
CHAMPAGNE {
CharfesHeidsieck
Mism®
Champagne
'-^lesHeidsiecfc
Reims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
122
Sg»f«-s-
C ‘,^«
SuV>u r ' 1,
HU
FQ*
NR,CAKVAS.BCOTS.S
4 Tj
The Chateau Napier,
Leura,
Blue Mountains, N.S.W.
rrmis modern Residential Hotel is unique
in its situation on the highest point in
Leura, commanding extensive views for over
60 miles.
Tennis Court, Billiard-room, Smoke and
Card Rooms.
Motor Garages.
All dairy products supplied by our own
Farm.
Electric Light throughout.
Private Sitting-rooms.
Golf-links and Bowling-green right handy.
Tel. 121 Katoomba.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Betty Ohls, the girl with the captivating
soprano; the big grey eyes and tiny feet,
has been in Sydney for four months, and
most of us didn’t know it. Her disguise as
Mrs. Fred McQuade, jun., the signing of
the armistice on the day she arrived, and
the ’flu must be apologies for our ignorance.
You will remember Betty fOhls as the Merry
Widow when the opera was produced here
some ten years ago. She came on after
Carrie Moore’s short run as the rather
Haughty Widow. Presently she married
Mr. F. McQuade. The happy pair have
been ranching all these years some two
hours’ journey from New York. They keep
up the status of the hoch wohlgeboven Hol-
stein. the pedigreed pig and the long-ances-
tored Airedale dog. But little Betty has
not neglected her voice. She has done a
lot of “private function” work, as well as
sopranoing in a swell church. Let us hope
she’ll do something melodious in Sydney.
F. G. Sargood dropped a nice little gift
into his lady love’s peggy-bag before he left
with daughter Mrs. Pockley for Europe. It
was Tudor, the old Christian home at
Elizabeth Bay. There are to be extensive
alterations, but some of the old furnishings
are to remain. So Tudor lifts its head
with a smile, shuddering no more at the
blasphemous thought that one day it might
become as so many of its neighbors, a “supe-
rior residential” or a home for paying-guests.
Colonel Mackenzie, D. 5.0., Judge Gordon’s
mild, fair Associate in days gone by, is on
his way home. He was at the Landing, hung
on with his battalion till the Evacuation
and then Avent to France, where he has been
off and on ever since. He Avas a citizen
soldier before the war, and is one of the feAV
senior officers Avith the legal training required
for the presidency of a court-martial. In
the circumstances the Defence Department
will doubtless see that he goes back to ciA r il
life—it is the invariable rule in such cases.
Harley Mackenzie, Avho died a couple of years
ago, Avas his brother.
A section of the much-travelled Octavius
Beale family has just come out of the coop
of quarantine on the Niagara. The Beale
banner, inscribed “Help Australian Indus-
tries, has braved the battle and the south-
erly buster all the days of O. C. Beale’s
absence. Daughter Ruth has carried it,
and as she’s just under six feet it has
floated high.
Mrs. Clunies Ross departs for England
on the Ceramic. This brave lady may be
said to be amongst those “pre-eminent in
gr , •„''YH 0 y ed recently, and her two fine
sons killed fighting for race and country !
Last week the reorganised Society of
Women Painters entertained Inky Way
friends at the new studio and Club-room in
Queen. Victoria Markets, noiv re-christened
Victoria Buildings. Lady Davidson Avas
to have been at the tea-drinking, but an en-
gagement-book blunder caused the lady to
.lust flurry in and out again. The com-
mittee led exploring parties into kitchen
and studio, and everybody exclaimed on the
cool giey tints of the decorations. President
Mrs. . Holman declared the rooms open, and
mentioned that the Women Painters intend
to give the annual Winter Show an inter-
national character by inviting exhibits from
Paris, London and all Australasia. oome
Avork displayed in the rooms Avas charming,
a bronze figure by Miss Solomons show-
mg the same delicacy as her well-known
painting, The Locket.” Mrs. A Hedlev
Parsons “Springtime at Castle Hill” proved
a magnet, and should lure Castle Hill en-
thusiast Owen Cox to the studio one fine
afternoon.
Thrice-Mayor Richards and his ladv
week-ended Avith Owen Cox in his feudal
castle Ayhere an old-time custom of serving
p?!vSls ° breakfast from the sideboard stifl
The germ shrivels at the news of the
umon of Matron Agnes Collins and Dr. A
Lff k n he f; H ,V S medical superinten-
of, district hospital at Thargomin-
dah and the lady is in charge. Cupid coupled
then-hearts Avhen the two were chasimr
wS M O at rTh hlt< w;, llltS - . at the timl
was M.O. of the Wilcannia Hosnit-nl
one of the Bush Nursing staff Avhieh Lady
Dudley made a pet of. y
In a frock that was all satin and lace
and georgette, with a train nearly a kilo
long, Rita Ahern, from Inverell, walked out
of St. Mary's Cathedral as Mrs. Justin
McCarthy, between a guard of honor of
sister-nurses in grey uniforms. The bride
did IS months’ active service in Salonika,
and there she was wooed and won by her
captain-husband (he’s a son of pharmacist
McCarthy), who served three years with the
It.A.M.C.
Nancy Conran, daughter of H. L. Con-
ran, who gave up the Navy for a Banana-
land squattage, recently became the wife
of Colonel Heathcote Diggles, who owns a
D.S.O. and an M.C. The bride put in a lot
of time in charge of a travelling canteen
on the French Front, and was handed a
Croix de Guerre on her wedding morn. The
Conran girls^ —there’s another sister—be-
came pally with ex-Crown Prince Willie and
his wife while wintering in Switzerland
some years ago, and guested with the
royalties at their hutch in Germany.
Another entente cordiale! Helena Mary
Booten, daughter of Herbert Booten, of
Brussels, is engaged to Jack Chapman,
second son of Austin Chapman, of the House
of Reps. The young soldier, who has been
away almost four years, was recently
appointed brigade-major.
This is Sister
McKern, who claims
Burilda, Summer
Hill, as her training
ground. She was at
No. 3 Australian
Casualty Clearing
Station, near Ypres,
in July, 1917, when
our people were
forced by the bombs
and shells of the
Huns to evacuate.
The lady doesn’t like
to talk about that.
She’d rather tell you
about the time
when, one of a group
of Aussie sisters, She
went to Windsor and
came by chance upon
George and Mary, who greeted their demo-
cratic subjects, and agreed cheerfully that
the English climate couldn’t come up to the
Australian. And she dimples over the
“party” given to them by Whitaker’s Peer-
age, Avhere she had a real break-your-gold-
crown war-time rock-cake handed to her by
the Duchess of Teck. Judith Fletcher caught
the lady in her lens.
Returned airmen are invited to sip tea
with the Flying Corps Comforts ladies in
Wentworth Avenue on April 8. Previous to
the party the final meeting of the depdt
will be held. But that doesn’t mean that
the hoys as they return are not to receive a
welcome. A special committee is being
formed to prepare the joyous viands.
Paling’s Marich, a real Sydney favorite,
has been a very sick man for some months,
and in Dr. Fiaschi’s hospital. He is now
allowed to run loose in Manly and is on
the up-grade.
On Friday, at the Wentworth, The Bulle-
tin’s “Vandorian” smiled over her bouquet of
cactus dahlias at footlight and fountain-pen
friends who dropped in to say cheerio and
swallow an ice. Mrs. Nelson and a slim,
clear-skinned daughter hostessed the party,
which talked of art and literature, and —and
everything along to the mining possibilities
of the Andes.
J. H. Curie, who wrote the “Shadow
Show,” the greatest book of travel that has
ever been published, is in Sydney poising for
an instant before his next flight, which will
probably take him to Timbuctoo. Mr. Curie
is surely the most-travelled man in the world ;
beside him, Burton, of “Arabian Nights,”
might be a Cook’s tourist.
On her next trip but one the Niagara will
carry James Chalmers, the progressive mana-
ger of Farmers’, _to the United Stores of
America. With him go architect George H.
Godsell, of the plan-building firm of Robert-
son and Marks, and contractor William
Stuart. For five months the triple alliance
will confer on the merits and demerits of the
department stores of America, and then wiU
return to Sydney to set about raising the
most beautiful and up-to-date temple to
womanhood in Australasia. James Chalmers
smiles with a great joy at the prospect of
adding yet another pile of distinguished
masonry to the city. It is he who was
iesponsible for the handsome Civil Service
Stores.
The skirt is going to have a permanent
seat at the luncheons of the Millions Club.
She will not speak, unless she’s an inaccu-
rate talker from America; but she may take
nourishment and raise an entranced ear to
catch the loyal tones of Arthur Rickard
and Mr. Orchard when the National Anthem
is sung.
From a Brisbane notebook:—
Last week Captain Walter Mactaggart, son of
the Dan Maetaggarts, an Anzac of the 9th Batt.,
was married to Audrajy Cowan, of Redcliffe.
Sympathy is being expressed for Crown Prosecu-
tor J. J. Kingsbury, whose wife died last week.
She was a sister of Dr. Ham, for some time State
•Health Officer.
Warn' Pennington is to be married next Satur-
day to Gladys Robinson, daughter of the Allen
Robinsons.
Rananaland Uni. has acquired four new profes-
sors. G. E. Mayo (Philosophy) is a native of Adel-
aide, and studied medicine in his home town and at
Edinburgh before the lure of psychology took him.
He has been eight years at the Brisbane Uni. Dr.
Harvey Johnston (Biology) is a graduate of Syd-
ney, and was at one time lecturer in zoology and
physiology at the Sydney Tech. He was chairman
of the Prickly Pear Travelling Commission. Thomas
Parnell, a Cambridge man, who has been on active
service with the A.1.F., is the Prof, of Physics.
Prof. Richards has got the new' chair of Geology.
He is a D.Sc. of Melbourne.
Captain J. .J. Stable, who has been busy on the
censor’s job ever since war broke out, is going
back to the Uni. to lecture in English, French
and German.
The Brisbane Club was At Home last Friday.
President J. Iv. Cannon and his wife were the
guests of honor of the committee and members.
This was the first big dance given in Brisbane
since the signing of the armistice.
The rooms of the Wool Spinning Guild were
crowded the other day, when all the property of
the Guild was sold by auction. This organisation
started out with 10s. to its credit. After three
and a half years’ splendid work, it is retiring with
a credit balance of £6OO. Most of the members
bought their favorite spinning-w-heels.
Arrived by the Niagara, Major Colin Gore
Stewart, M.C., sqn of the Engineer-in-Chief
of South Aus. Enlisting in August, 1914,
the young officer saw practically all the big
Digger engagements. In Sydney he was the
guest of his uncle and aunt, Wilfrid Blacket,
K.C., and Mrs. Blacket.
The Niagara also brought Lieut. Jack
Asche, a B.A. of Melbourne, who enlisted in
Ceylon, where he was Professor of Mathe-
matics at Trinity College. He joined the
Royal Siege Artillery; then, after being in-
valided, he became attached to the scientific
section, and was engaged in getting the
range of German guns by sound. Lieut.
Asche is a nephew of Oscar.
From a girl in Vancouver: —
Dame Melba, deneral Pau,.Lady Galway and the
Spencer Bruntons managed to arrive on the Niagara
without picking up a ’flu germ on the way. They
have all gone on to London via New York. Melba
vitalised the drowsy Canadian Women’s Club with a
speech during the one afternoon she spent in town.
She gave it enough suggestions to work oh for years
to come. In New York she will meet the Lady Susan
Fitzclarence, and together they will journey' to
London.
Goodness—and we’d just got the idea that
these American women and women’s clubs
were simply bursting with home-made
energy! •
Judith Fletch e r
has here captured
the dreamy look in
the eyes of Peter
Austen, soldier-poet,
whose new book of
verse, “The Young
Gods,” dedicated to
Rupert Brooke, is
quite up to the pro-
mise of “Bill-Jiin,”
his earlier work.
The young man
claims Queensland
as his birthplace,
but has adopted
Sydney. He served
three years in
France, Palestine
and Egypt, has red-
brown hair, a guile-
less smile, and a discerning mercer who
sells him ties of the same radiant blue as his
eyes. He looks so youthful that military
police are constantly demanding where he
found the Returned Soldier’s badge that he
wears in his lapel.
Mrs. Jimmy Burns had an exciting time
getting to London from N’York. She had
just unpacked and settled down when word
came that one of the ship’s boilers had burst,
so more unpacking had to be done and more
time spent in New York. When she arrived
in London, it was to find that her husband,
still . khaki-clad, had gone back to France.
But it wasn’t for long, and they will be soon
home now.
The Ken Austins have achieved a son.
Father married the Arthur Allens’ only girl
last year. He had arranged to go to the
war with her brother, Denis, in 1916. They
went for a ride a day or so before they were
to start off, and Mr. Austin’s horse fell and
smashed his leg so badly that he has been
lame ever since. The irony of it is that
was about the best amateur rider in Aus-
tralia—one of the few who have ridden over
the Randwick steeplechase course against
professionals. Young Allen won a D.S.O.
and his captaincy in the R.F.G. He had
the responsible job of testing ’planes in the
closing days of the war.
The Owen Rowlands have a daughter—
born at Prince’s Gate in London. Captain
Rowland, M.C., was in the 6th (Army) F.A.
Brigade when he married Enid Parker, of
Sydney, who was in London on a visit, lie
did the deed while on a fortnight’s leave in
1918 and has spent most of his married lit"
in the front line.
Mrs. Clarence Bridge and daughter
Muriel are back from India.
Thomas McMahon, lecturer and journ-
alist, recently brought down a gift of hand-
some cocoanut matting from the Queen ~f
the Marshall Islands, Rae Neliap, to Lady
Davidson, who was addressed in the accom-
panying letter as “wife of the Big Chief of
Sydney.”
There’s a new badge on our block, of
white enamel on blue, with a gold design
that looks like Turkish calligraphy, but is
really shorthand. It stands for “The Cleri-
cal War Workers,” who number about 600.
and, under the direction of Miss Lottie Arm-
strong, have done much good work for
patriotic committees.
The Institute of Journalists ate a mid-day
meal at Farmer’s on Thursday last, for the
twofold purpose of God-speeding Johnny
Sandes. who goes to London to represent the
Daily Telegraph (what a cheerful, likeable
rep. he will be!) and to say “How do you
do?” to the Press delegates who returned in
December last; and that would have been
something like eating two courses with the
one fork, but the Press delegates, being busy
editors, sat in their harness—perhaps
because they didn’t know they were to be
how-de-doed. Poet Fritz Burnell, who sat
humbly near the farthest door, had a final
crumb of encouragement thrust at him.
Then everybody seemed to hear the call of
the linotype, and there was a genteel sprint
for the lifts.
Lillian Mitchell raises her lyric soprano in
the Town Hall on April 19. True to her
old generous impulse which has never allowed
her to decline to sing at any entertainment
in aid of the soldier-boys, Miss Mitchell has
reserved 200 seats for the khaki.
Hope Colley is preparing her bridal outfit
in a hurry. Her young man, who has been
two-starring in Gallipoli and France for four
years, has returned and is rushing the wed-
ding with a military despatch that leaves the
bride-to-be’s happy smile somewhat breath-
less. The man in the case is Roy Everade
Forrest, son of the late Captain Forrest,
while the best girl’s father. A. J. Colley,
banked for E. S. and A. clients at Berry, and
at other moments orated to them with such
charm that he - was known as the silver
tongue of the South.
Terrible is the influence of war on our
very best families. Algernon Percival, who
has wallowed in the Flanders mud or swat-
ted the biters of Palestine, can now do the
natural thing in a_ natural way. But even
the dinkums on Sydney’s toniest suburban
railway got a shock early the other morning
w T hen the recently-starred offspring of on°
of our rag princes fell breathless into the
carriage and began to. unearth a couple of
eggs, a slice of bread and a spoon from vari-
ous pockets. Then Digger Algy proceeded
to breakfast, and he looked as though he
enjoyed it, too.
Two or three months ago somebody re-
turning from Fiji told, apropos the ’flu epi-
demic there, that “Gemmell Smith. Fitz
Brenan and the Lambs died in the one
house practically unattended.” Word comes
now that all of them got all the attention
that the stricken island could afford —which
was considerable. Gemmell Smith died at
the C.S.R. rest-house at Lautoka, attended
by a doctor, a trained nurse and his wife;
hitz Brenan was attended by three neigh-
bors: and the Lambs died in hospital, and
had the services of two doctors.
The Graythwaite soldiers are to have
motor picnics each Sunday, if the owners
of cars are willing to make a sacrifice for
the boys. Twenty-seven North Sydneyites
have already placed their cars at the‘dis-
posal of Miss Pauling Walker, of Crow’s
Nest-road, North Sydney, and she will be
glad to hear from others.with a like generous
disposition.
Alma Baker, hon. organiser of the Aus-
tralian and Malayan Air Squadron Funds,
has received the thanks of the War Office,
aimed at himself and the contributors:
between them they added 41 Australian and
53 Malayan aeroplanes to the flock of mos-
quitoes that stung Fritz to desperation.
The Junior Red Crossers are getting
under weigh for an exhibition in Sydnev
Town Hall on May 22 and 23, when the
lasses will be seen spinning and knitting
and sewing, and doing the other useful
things encouraged by the Red Cross, to the
accompaniment of the music of school-chil-
dren choirs.


TTI
- 'f': 'p > ' ? >*>
.
.
' v '-•-.'V; %¥&&&i '
WMMmb
'■ •- -.
s/‘T
_
■
* ; V r '- ‘ 'i
Mai ite <
■
m
m
s?s&
|5S^T^
■;-v
CJ
■■■.-.
0
ISHI
r">
HI
•maßWmttMßmT ■ Bp'S*
•sgg , H
r r
~i r~
TWO STRINGS TO OUR BOW
0
synchronise with the Jubilee Show
of the Royal Agricultural Society, we
have erected on our new island block
bordered by Park Road, Harris Avenue
and Angus Avenue, with a passage at rear,
a fine new Pavilion in which to worthily
displav our magnificent Exhibit of FUR-
NITURE and FURNISHINGS,
SEWING MACHINES, PIANOS
and TALKING MACHINES.
This grand site affords us upwards of
7000 square feet of floor space, and the
pavilion is undoubtedly an ornament to the
grounds.
It is an ideal structure for exhibition purposes, being
easy of access, admirably lighted and elegantly appointed.
A vestibule 30 feet wide and 15 feet deep, laid with rubber,
admits to a wide doorway' on either hand, the main front
being devoted to a magnificent plate-glass show window.
The portico is carried on handsome fluted columns, the
central approach being floored with ironite, with a lawn of
buffalo on each side.
Inside the visitor is at once struck with the splendid
lighting arrangements. The entire roof, which is glazed on
the flood or lantern lighting principle, is supported on ele-
gant steel posts, strong enough to bear the weight but light
enough not to obstruct the view.
Side entrances are also provided from both avenues.
Revolving shutters are fitted to each entrance. No fewer than
1000 superficial feet of glass have been used in the roofing.
The whole of the exterior has been painted in an attractive
shade of French grey, and the front wall bears the firm’s
name, badge and motto, “Bound to Rise,” in gold lettering.
w
a view to enabling inter-State
and country visitors to become
acquainted with the design of our
new home at Moore Park we are publishing
the above picture, so that they may know
beforehand what to look for, and thus be able
to find us automatically and without trouble.
We may locate the site more easily for them,
perhaps, by adding that we are opposite the
Wine Kiosk, and on the block next to
Nestles. The Hall of Industries is in the
immediate background.
o
We still retain our fine Pavilion at the intersection of
Burgundy Street and Machinery Avenue —about 40 yards
in front of our new building. On this occasion we have
devoted this space to a great display of Motor Cars, Tyres
and Motor Accessories.
Naturally our exhibits at the Show are but a trifling
selection from our huge stocks. We cordially invite you to
call on us at
Our Headquarters Building,
Central Square (opp. Railway)
Our Furniture Building,
827-31 George Street Parcels Office)
OurGarages&MotorShowrooms
147-153 & 162 Castlereagh Street
or at our Branches at Newtown and North Sydney. You
will be very heartily welcome.
MARCUS CLARK <&. CO. LTD.
Universal Distributors Central Square, vSYDNEY


NEW SERVICES FOR GENTLEMEN
AT FARMER’S.
BOOT AND SHOE POLISHING SERVICE :
There has been installed in the Men’s . Footwear Section, on the
Ground Floor, an up-to-date Boot and Shoe Polishing Service, where
gentlemen will receive prompt, efficient attention.
GENTLEMEN’S MANICURE:
The Gentlemen’s Manicure Service is also adjacent the Boot Section,
and expert manicurists are in attendance from 9 a.m. to C p.m. daily
- (Sats. till 1 p.m.). Appointments, if desired, may be booked to suit
gentlemen’s convenience.
FARMER’S, SYDNEY.
PERFECT GOWNING
WITHOUT FITTINGS
Such is the craft of Shave ,
Master Ladies' Tailors and
Dressmakers of Melbourne, that
they are able to fashion perfectly
the most elaborate gown
or the severest tailor-
suit without fittings
Visits by Shave to Sydney
and Adelaide each
half-year, and to
Brisbane yearly
LADIES' TAILORS,
UAULCjO J.AIUWJS.A,
DRES SM AKERS
Centreway, Melbourne
To show in Sydney
shortly, Kindly enquire
Hotel Carlton for
opening date of display.
i \v?
\Aeltoman
|T \ HIGH-CLASS
Creams
zrd
Pastes
Cleaning S Preserving
ALL RINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANG LTD.
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne. -
E. DROWN @ SONS LONDON
AGENCIES * ALL ■ OVER • THE • WORLD
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warners
Rust Proof
Corsets
The G.-G. pair were At Home on Austra-
lian Cup night from 9to 10—it was a little
good-bye to Lady Stanley. The party was
small and mostly official, but it was gorge-
ously dressed. Lady Helen chose gold
satin .with cascades of amber and gold lace
and a half-hidden blue sash. She was
ablaze with diamonds and dripping with
pearls. The Stanley lady fluffed in white
tulle frills with a gold and ivory crepe tunic.
Doris Blackwood, also being farewelled, was
a glowing rose-pink incident in the frock
parade. Gold was a keynote of the dress-
ing. Mrs. George Armstrong blazed in
gold tissue with dull pink and blue sash-
ings, and the Mackinnon dame hung cut jet
over gold tissue. Mrs. Itussell Clarke
scored amid all the brilliance by appearing
in dove-grey tulle. Mrs. Harry Emmerton
managed a Louis-the-Something effect in
pompadour-blue velvet brocade. Mrs. Cass
wound yards of jade-green and gold round
her slim black net frock, and Mrs. Maguire,
wife of Commander Maguire, buttoned up
her white satin with crystal buttons as big
as ice-cream plates. The ballroom is still
the centre of Red Cross activity; so the gay-
plumaged company scattered about the State
reception rooms and then drifted in to sup-
per—an affair of champagne, silver cande-
labra and pink dahlias.
At this party some of the women had
their faces and necks so heavily dusted that
they looked like jewelled ghosts. The elec-
tric-lighting arrangements in the drawing-
room showed up every streak of the stuff and
made debutantes look old enough to be their
mothers.
Mrs. Cabena farewelled Lady Stanley last
week. Everybody turned up in her very
best dress and had a handshake. The re-
ception began in the blue boudoir and
extended to the big council room. Then
it passed upstairs to the tea-tables in the
usually gaunt supper-rooms. Potted palms
saved them on this occasion. Mrs. Cabena
wore black and much jet. Her Ex. smiled
in -white cloth and a sable cape. The
Madden dame handed her an armful of
orchids and violets.
It is a long time since Victoria parted with
a. Governor’s wife with more genuine regret
than it did with Lady Stanley. She tripped
on board the Osterley, with her brood of five,
between a guard of honor formed of members
of the Mothers’ Welcome League and the
Newsboys’ Society, and was God-blessed
on all sides. She looked very dainty in her
blue travelling cloak and closely-fitting bon-
net, and everybody felt sorry for dear Sir
Arthur, who fussed around the family until
the time came to haul up the gangway.
Then he stood, a disconsolate figure, on the
pier, while the mob assaulted the departing
lady with streamers and coo-ees. ,As his
Ex. pushed off to his motor, there was not
a woman around who was not prepared to
sew on buttons for him for the term of his
grass-widowerbood.
The Australian Cup meeting was rather
dowdy. The best-dressers have not yet got
into their stride. A few early birds paraded
the new fringed narrow models that cling,
but the majority walked in the flared and
pleated stuff-gowns of yesterday. The G.-G.
and Governor .Stanley were both out, well
supported by aides. There were no vice-
regal womenfolk to squire, so the men de-
serted the grandstand and gravitated be-
tween the paddock and the stewards’ rooms.
Doris Blackwood was out to see the sport
in a cheeky little hat with a lace brim and
a chiffon frock. She promenaded with the
Everard Browne flapper. Mrs. Cass wore
a complicated clinging gown of black. Mrs.
Clive Leonard’s buttery-cream cloth topped
the market. Roma Clarke arrested atten-
tion with an orange-tawny parasol. Mrs.
Sep Miller got a clingy effect out of grey
silk crepe. Mrs. Ken Field wore ermine
w r ith her toque and stiff blue glacA Mrs.
Lindsay Field (Tas.) wore a ficelle on georg-
ette in black and a daring violet and jade-
green hat. Mrs. Lansell (Bendigo) was in
tussore-colored clothes with a neat posy in
her little hat. . Mrs. Reggie Clarke was
tailored trimly in fawn cloth.
Russell Calvert, one of the ancient West-
ern District Calverts, has given up the
simple life among his dairy-herd at Drouin
and come to live within taxi-hail of Mel-
bourne. The new Calvert ranch is over at
the back of Burwood, in a district where the
fIOOO-a-year orchardist and cow-breeder are
quite common and land sells at up to £lOO
an acre. Most of the Calverts are still
sheep-people, and the family-tree now hangs
from its newer branches such noble wool-
growing names as Lyon, Chirnside and Hood.
The Meat Exploiters’ Association, or some
similarly-named concern, met in Mel-
bourne the other day and handed over
sundry silver vessels to William Angliss, the
Bourke-street meat-king and M.L.C. The
present was partly in token of Angliss s
approaching marriage, but mostly in recog-
nition of his perfect behavior as an upholder
of fat profits.
Michael Gibney-Roche went aboard with
the Ferryman last week, after a trying wait.
Mrs. Gibney-Roche, who was Julia Doyle,
died last year after taking her ailing hus-
band away to a “health” resort, where she
fell a victim to scarlet fever.
Donald Melville, M.L.C., who last week
laid down forever his job as “father of the
House,” was generally known as a prosper-
ous wool- and grain-merchant at dusty old
Brunswick. He had other interests, how-
ever. One was Warrangourt, in the neigh-
borhood of Hamilton, now run by son
Albert. Another son, William, a barrister
at Hamilton, married a niece of the late
Peter Learmonth, a mighty sheepman who
owned a terrace of squattages and an honor-
able name.
Franklin McPherson, 16-year-old son of a
struggling farmer at Clydesdale* won the Dr.
Hill prize at the Castlemaine Junior Tech-
nical School by surmounting obstacles that
wmuld have discouraged a lad of less grit.
As his dad could not afford the railway fare
from Strangways to Castlemaine he (through
Premier Lawson, no doubt) got a travelling
concession from the Railway Department.
Then he walked three miles to the station on
school mornings and landed in Castlemaine
at 7.
William Macleod told friends on his return
from a world’s tour a few years back that
Mrs. Will Dyson was the handsomest
woman he had seen in London; and still
young, with her great ability accepted and
bringing her in a large amount of the illus-
trating work she loved, with her husband
back safe from the War, enjoying the full
benefit of his great reputation, and having a
beautiful little daughter already showing
astonishing precocity with the pencil, the
charming artist dies of pneumonia after a
brief illness! There is a fine painting of
Mrs. Dvson by Lambert in existence, and a
head of her by Web Gilbert —perhaps the
best specimen of the sculptor’s early work--
is in Will Dyson’s possession.
The picturesque Maguire lady is returning
to England this month, her husband the
Commander having been recalled. She
stayed here long enough to set a fashion in
a particular little shape of hat she affected.
She had the same shape built in many dif-
ferent colors.
Sister Ida O’Dwyer
has just returned to
Australia after much
distinguished ser-
vice. She left in
1914 on the first
hospital- ship, the
Kyarra. For the
first year she mostly
tended sick in tents
outside Heliopolis
Palace. Later she
was “lent” to the
British and was
superintendent of a
military hospital in
Nottingham. Then
she was attached to
a South African hos-
pital. The R.R.C.
(first- and second-
class) came to her for the work she did in
France and Belgium. In France she was
put in charge of the 2nd Casualty Clearing
Station which was only a small affair at the
time. It was a branch of the British 29th
C.C.S., but it grew until there were over 20
sisters, and they were the first clearing
station to pass through Bapaume. This
unit had exciting times when sent up to Bel-
gium, as the hospitals were bombed nightly.
Sister O’Dwyer was knocked out herself and
packed off to England, and, later, was put in
charge of Mrs. Hall’s hospital for sick
nurses. While at this hospital Sister Ida
was chosen to- represent the Australian
nurses at the opening of Australia House in
August, 1918.
The reappearance of Norman Brookes
and Alf Dunlop drew a large crowd to the
Association Courts at St. Kilda. Brookes,
though short of practice, showed that he is
still the wizard of the racquet. Mrs.
Norman was present in a big coat, and car-
ried a bag like a convulsed Cairo sunset.
Dr. Sinclair Steuart, looking boyish after
his long war service, happened along. Tall
Rupert Wertheim was clad half in flannels
and half in military kit. Pretty Gladys
Ivettlewell looked out of an entanglement of
furs. Dorothy Schlesinger annexed a
silver dish by fine play. The tall Charlie
Lyon couple, just back from India, stood out
in the crowd like palm-trees on a sandy
ridge, whilst umpire Malcolm, looking like
the Silver King in the third act, called
“Out!” from his high stool in ringing tones.
Hugh Victor McKay has had the insignia
of a C.B.E. pinned, hung or riveted on to
him. The G.-G. did it after lunch at Gov-
ernment House on Friday.
ihe Cottrell Dormers, who regularly in-
vade Melbourne at race-time with boxes of
smart dresses, have just sold their fine home
at Claremont (Tas.), and are establishing
themselves at Hay, in the Derwent Valley.
Mrs. Cottrell Dormer was one of the Brock
family. She achieved almost a theatrical
sensation recently by losing a few pints of
jewels. Her home safe was robbed while
she sat knitting socks for soldiers in the
summer-house.
Dr. Greville is blowing out his red lamp
after 17 years at Albert Park. He is going
in for country life at Wondoora, a retreat
at Ferny Creek, near Sassafras.
Academic opinion
was opposed to the
recognition of phar-
macists in a mili-
ta r y sense, but
Major D. A. Cossar
changed all tha t.
Appointed to com-
mand a body of
druggists controlling
the medical stores of
the Commonwealth,
Cossar proved hi's
value by reorganis-
ing the drug supply
and placing several
extensive contracts
which ensured the
provision of the
rarest necessities for
the Australian medi-
cal services in different parts of the world.
But Cdssar and his colleagues had not
attained any particular rank when they
started to manage the medicine department.
Farriers, vets, dentists and war correspon-
dents had their share of the stars and
stripes, but no druggist until Cossar broke
through the brass-bound prejudice. The
Major made some big deals for the Common-
wealth, especially in New York; but the
corner-stone of his achievement was the
winning of commissioned rank for chemists
attached to the A.I.F. At present the
A.I.F. is the only army in the Empire
whereof druggists can be officahs without
the General Staff falling dead.
The Willie McCullochs and their children
are coming home by the Euripides. She is
the Tom Smith widow’s youngest daughter.
Mrs. D-e Jardin, widow of an ex-Fyench
Consul, was a passenger by the Orsova.
Her homeward journey ends in Paris. She
was held up here by the submarine terror
when visiting her only child Sophie, who is
the wife of N.S.W. squatter Ken Mac-
kirinon, brother of political Donald.
Widower Trenchard goes off to Canada on
the Niagara with his daughter, Lady Green
Kelly, and her children. Thev have all been
sheltering at the Trenchard Toorak house
during the war. Father and daughter will
say good-bye in Vancouver. The Kelly dame
continues on to England to join her husband.
Mr. Trenchard will come straight back to
Australia.
Mrs. Herbert Stevenson’s daughter Ella
is off to England, where her soldier-fiance is
buried. She mourns for Lieut. Robert Stir-
ling, son of singer Maggie Stirling. He died
of wounds last,year.
Guy Madden, who was with the British
army in Italy, is coming back to Australia.
His wife and small daughter have just
struggled through the influenza ordeal in the
Sandringham emergency hospital.
Presbyterian-padre Smith Macßain, a
nephew of that once prominent figure in poli-
tics, the late James Macßain, is home again.
He didn’t have the luck to acquire any sort
of cross during his absence —not that he
knows of, at least —but he now wears a
major’s crown.
Commander J. G. Walch, formerly on
H.M.A.S. Australia, has been decorated'with
the Legion of Honor. Tassy is interested,
as Walch married Edith Curran, daughter
of Curran, of Tatt.’s, and a sister of the
noted Pauline. Another Curran sister is
the wife of sailor-lieut. Mackenzie. The
whole bunch are due for a family gathering
in Hobart wuthin a month or so.
When the G.-G. presented medals at the
Domain camp a big half-circle of decorated
soldiers sat and enjoyed the other bloke’s
salute and stage-fright. His Ex. wore a
pale khaki that was fawn color, and had
Lady Helen to back him up. Her Ex. was
in black. A flock of “rosellas” hovered
round a table with a Union Jack cover. One
bailed up each advancing warrior and pointed
sternly to the second button of his tunic.
This had to be unfastened so as to give his
Ex. a grip. The potentate looked like a
tailor as he pinned and patted each medal.
Someone at the Union Jack table kept up
a monotonous chant: “For bravery in the
field!” A sad little group of relations re-
ceived medals that had been to
soldiers since killed. The Meritorious Ser-
vice Medal —a rare distinction —was pinned
oh the coat of a baby boy, son of the late
Lieut. Gaston. Corporal Jacka, who re-
ceived the Belgian Croix de Guerre, was car-
ried forward in his chair by two soldier pals.
The Charlie Fail-bairns’ flying son Jim,
who got back from a German prison-camp
with one arm in a sling, started back to
London by the Orsova to ask a London
specialist to report on the injured limb.
The broken bone, which was set by a Ger-
man surgeon, stubbornly refuses to mil.
Sister Esther Wheatley will take her
wounded brother under her wing when lie
reaches England. Young Jims elder
brother, Major Osborne, got back the day-
after Lieut. Jim set out.
Jim Bailey, a Hobart boy who lately got
back into civvies after three years in khaki,
stepped into the Repatriation Department
and was told lie was the lucky holder of the
Klingender-Alsop Memorial Scholarship. It
will frank him for a two-years’ architectural
course at Melbourne University.
Adelaide watches the roundabout: —
Died on Sunday Andrew Dowie, who came here in
’6l, and was at one time a prominent business man.
Ha was a brother of the late Elijah, of Zion City.
Mrs. H. R. Fuller, whose husband was mayor at
the time of the Duke of Edinburgh’s visit 50 years
ago, has just had her 85th birthday.
The governors of St. Peter’s College have decided
to build a huge hall to remember the great war by.
It will hold about 2000 and cost £25,000 or £27,000.
The dance-music is beginning again. Classes arc
booming, and Miss Crowe, who made a hit as an
amateur dancer at Red Cross revues, is one of the
latest additions to the ranks of teachers. At a dance
at BrickneU’s last week a couple of youthful Billjim
officers had charge of the arrangements, and two
youthful matrons were chaperons.
Miss E. M. Bundey, daughter of the late Judge
and (on her mother’s side) one of the Milne clan,
died on Saturday after a long illness. An accom-
plished musician, she had also written much prose
and verse.
Lucia Newdegate, of the Apple Island s
vice-regal family, is to have six bridesmaids
for her April wedding. Sister Susan will be
one and the young Cameron. Ellis, Reid and
Propsting (2) misses make up the halt-
dozen. They are going to wear lemon georg-
ette with forget-me-not-blue garnishings.
The local Fitzgerald firm is making the
maids’ gowus as w r ell as the bride’s dress.
Lieut.-Commander Stewart has
been made second in. command at our Naval
depot—a pleasant shore job after two years
sea service. We knew him in the pre-
war days as admiral of the destroyer Yarra.
He is an Australian, a son of the late Stew-
art Keightley and Mrs. Iveightley, of New-
castle (N.S.W.). The Commander has just
returned from a motor honeymoon, and he
and his bride (Beatrice Proctor) are now
house-hunting. The marriage was a brilliant
social incident, heavily trimmed with naval
uniforms. Bride Beatrice wore a wedding
gown of sapphire-blue chiffon velvet hung
from a corselet of gold lace.
There was an auction sale of aeroplanes
at Point Cook on Wednesday morning—a
20-mile run out from Melbourne. It proved
a fizzle. A drab handful of people motored
over the plains and gathered round the
hangars; but there was not a closing bid.
The onlv likely buyer stopped at £250. An
aviator In a fur cap took up the first ’bus for
a trial -run while the auctioneer perched on
a small box on the earth and rattled off its
points : “Safe, overhauled, attains a speed of
fully 60 miles an hour!” he chanted. No-
body rose to it. Then would-be purchasers
were not allowed to ascend for a trial spin,
and that crushed soaring ambition.
There were six ’planes for sale. Two
Havilands looked smart, but the others were
obviously old ’buses. A dandy little fly-
about with a 100-miles-an-hour speed was
jealously guarded inside. Half a dozen
enormous black packages, carefully sealed,
stood out in the open. They were fighting
’planes waiting till the sale should clear
space for them in the hangars.
A strong note of warm color, in contrast
to the prevailing greenth, was provided at
the St. Pat.’s Day sing-song at Melbourne
Town Hall. Lilian Reid, Alice Lynch and
Agnes Caples were the three lady music-
makers of the evening; and every one of
them has Titian hair.
The Bland Holts have sold their s old home
on Wellington Parade to the Arnold 'West-
leys and rehoused themselves at Ivew in a
beautiful place known as Sunning.
Young Captain Leslie de Grut, son _of
the Percy de Gruts, writing home, complains
that the Antwerp flappers cut buttons off
his uniform as souvenirs until it was a diffi-
cult job to maintain the dignity of the
British Army.


81/ACIV and WHITE
i
■■ V ; '
i
mmrni
m
MHHHP
% \yt- ■
.
f .
tm
E-...
■' ,i:
:C
r•
* •?* , :
HFy- 55s'' ;j&>- ;
Sif fl§|ll p \ a
. ■ -.?s Sr- 3
■*!
Mm *
Ail
, tIS
'? - %p |
s
WSmmm
|1
*■''■ ■
* ' »'■ ',l* W-Jf. <-i
,:4'-
WMi&.
_
H
1
i
i
•,
%
iiifil
BHHn|
■
«i
SM
•a
.
f -,.
..'.A'
m
tp I ttf - v j |fissi(g
n iisii m
tagmsmit
■■■« v ■
A ;•■'. ■■'
Bp I
pEB v\»afeBiMp|Hiß
i
.*
i • ssisiis
&&y't m BSS
§mm
. v *
•;;■ /;
.
,? .A-
-,;•• :•- - : ,
;; -/■
WUk
'v^
I&K@REBIi
i *A
'“ 1 I % -j£ :’ - sS,?' »
uKSStSSSSm
;-;CS Aj-'A:
- ■ •■■' .; A. V
“THE GUARDS.”
WHISKY
Obtainable in
BOTTLES
FLASKS
HALF-BOTTLES
HALF-FLASKS
GUARANTEED ONE QUALITY ONLY.
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO. LTD.


The Hungarian Government has proclaimed its
solidarity with the Russian Soviet and a state of
war between Hungary and the Entente. A judicious
use of King George IV., the topnotcli Scotch whisky,
would give the right inspiration, and assist to solve
these great problems.— Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents; RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
WHAT MAKES THE WHEELS GO ROUNJJ ?
teco&z
LEWIS &VmiTTY MAKERS
SYDNEY EASTER SALES.
We are prepared to execute commissions to purchase pedigreed stock at the forthcoming
Show and Yearling Sales. Special arrangements for the purchase of thoroughbred Yearlings
will be made and Veterinary examinations and certificates supplied.
Outback buyers unable to attend are invited to write us.
Reference—“Milroy,” Sydney Mail Office, and Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney, Ltd.,
Pitt Street.
R. F. GARDNER & CO., Stock and Station Agents, 39 Hunter Street, SYDNEY-
Reliable
Cycle and Hotor Pneumatic
Tyres, Solid Tyres, Tennis
and Golf Balls, Carriage
Tyring, Engineering Rubber
Goods, Mats, Matting, etc.
are required at once in this immediate terri-
tory to handle our Rubber Goods. Over 60
years’ experience, we can ship substantial
quantities of Rubber Goods. -
Customers’ brands mace to order. ALL GOODS OF
HIGHEST GUARANTEED QUALITY.
THE MIDLAND ROBBER CO. LTD.,
RYLAND STREET, BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND.
Contractor* <-o British Admiralty, War Office, Principal Railway Cos., etc.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
MICK
SIMMONS
SPORTING
NEEDS
♦ * * *
It doesn't say much for racehorse-breeding
in Australia, or ior the soundness of the imported
stuff, that only 12 horses started for the Australian
Cup, and the top weight was merely a handicap
horse who carried Bst. 81b., and started first favorite.
Long-distance races are dropping more and more out
of favor. The Australian Cup was worth £1750 to
the winner and £5OO to the second, with 250 so vs.
for the third; yet only 12 moderate-to-inferior nags
lined up at the barrier, MistiCo being the late with-'
drawal. The ex-Westralian won the Bourke Handi-
cap later in the afternoon, and thereby justified his
scratching for the 2i-miles event. He was really the
classiest animal in the little bunch of final accept-
ances.
The Cup, as it appeared, was a good thing for the
despised New Tipperary when the favorite had been
effectually dealt with in the running. Like more
than one first favorite in the past, Star Comedian
returned to scale in a damaged state, and the
books exulted over what was almost a skinner in
many cases.
New Tipperary, on his best form for the present
season, seemed to have a good chance in the Aus-
tralian Cup race, but his staying powers were held
cheaply, and there was a question about starting the
veteran. Like Defence, last year’s winner, the son
of Positano is an aged gelding, and he carried an
extra 51b. to have the services of Bobby Lewis. The
able-bodied little man on his back was worth the
extra weight.
Imported horse Menin finished third for the Cup,
behind the fancied Earlborn, and will probably im-
prove on this performance anon. He carried little
enough weight, but there are possibilities in Menin.
Already he has shown a fair turn of speed and a
tendency to stay. Moreover he runs more honestly
than imported horses in general, and gets busy at
the finish of a race after starting slowly.
The six-year-old gelding Snub started a hot favor-
ite for the King’s Plate on the last day. He practi-
cally never worried his backers and won as he liked
from Star Comedian, to whom he was giving half
a stone. In the Sydney Cup Star Comedian will
have to give him 31b., Snub being handicapped in
that race at Bst. 31b.
The top-weight and favorite, Tararu Jack, fell in
the Autumn Steeplechase and H. Miller’s aged geld-
ing Pinon cantered home a three-lengths winner.
John Donald and lolaus, both geldings, filled the
places.
Carriole, a gelding, took the Northcote Handicap,
and Blue Cross, another gelding, annexed the Fare-
well Handicap. Altogether it was a great day for
the unsexed division.
* * * *
“0.K.”: Lewis didn’t declare 51b. over-
weight to ride New Tipperary. He declared 21b., and
then took enough light refreshment to raise himself
another 31b., being quite unconscious of the fact
that two cups of tea were making all that difference.
Victory in the Australian Cup seems pos-
sible to very ordinary sort of animals if they haven’t
much weight to carry. New Tipperary scored his
win the other Tuesday, when there was only 7st. 91b.
to bother him. In the Autumn Handicap, two days
later, he cut a poor figure under 9st. His attempt
to give 2st. or more to a couple of commonplace
handicap horses was a dismal failure. They appa-
rently had the Westralian in trouble before half of
the 13 furlongs had been covered.
The Liverpool Mile at Warwick Farm
(N.S.W.) on Saturday should have been an instruc-
tive race. Most of the champion milers who are to
appear at the next A.J.C. meeting were engaged.
However, a rotten start ruined the race from the
standpoint of all but the backers of Publican (Bst.
91b.), who, defeating the barrier by lengths, won
as he liked.
McDonald’s aged Devron, well known as
a flat-racer in S. Aus., where he won a Leger and
an Onkaparinga Cup and ran second in the local
Derby, carried list. 71b. to the front at Port
Adelaide in his very first attempt at a steeple. The
same afternoon saw the first appearance on a city
course of the 12-year-old schoolboy jockey, son of
trainer Matson. The kid was put up twice on
Tagala, a particularly hard-pulling two-year-old
which has a trick of running wide at the turn ; but
he got home once, losing another race by a short
head to Dr. Bennett’s Maori Pah. The latter winner
had his head bandaged, having banged the top of it
against his railway-box roof.
* * * *
Nowadays quite a spectacle is afforded to
the bystander when eminent horse-pilot Frank
Dempsey drives himself up to the V.R.C. office in his
French-grey car, upholstered in mole, with a horse-
shoe mascot on the radiator and his own clobber
yielding little to the chariot in brilliance.
# * * *
“Yarra Ben”: The 4-to-l favorite Star
Comedian was about 200 yards away from the 20-to-l
winner at the finish of Australian Cup. Disconsolate
backers of the disappointing star might have been
heard chorusing: “It's a long way to New Tipperary
—it’s a long way to go.”
KEN BRACKEN.
The committee of a racing club when it is
sitting as a judicial tribunal is a queer survival. It
belongs to the days when the trainer and jockey stood
a little higher in the domestic scale than stable-boys
and considerably lower than footmen or butlers.
Trainers and jockeys are now men of responsibility
and means. Their businesses are big ones, and they
often hold quasi-public positions. Yet their entire
livelihood is still a matter of the say-so of a body
which may or may not be sufficiently unbiased and
competent to deal with such an important issue.
In this capacity the average racing committee is
little better than the average court-martial bench.
In ancient Rome there was written over every court
of justice the words: “Hear the other side.” Racing
committees—like many court-martials —rarely do
this, in the sense that Justice understands the term.
In any case, trainers and jockeys, as a class, are an
inarticulate lot. Their version of the proceedings
would be listened to more seriously if they were put
by skilled “friends”—not necessarily lawyers, but
persons known to the committee and esteemed by the
members. Imagine in Melbourne the difference
between the attention that would be paid to Mr.
E. D. Clarke’s jockey and to Mr. E. D. Clarke speak-
ing for his jockey; or in Sydney the difference, as an
advocate, between Mr. Theo Marks and the lad who
had got into trouble while riding for that sportsman.
* * * *
The beautification of Randwick goes on
in the neighborhood of the stands, but the centre and
back of the course remain an untended wilderness.
Why ? By spending a comparatively small sum the
A.J.C. could transform the whole course into a
thing of perfect loveliness—make it another Good-
wood or Longchamps. A theory commonly advanced
is that if this were done the local people would first
demand the use of it as a park, and then agitate to
have it done away with as a racecourse and dedi-
cated to the public in perpetuity. That must happen
in time, anyhow. It will not be delayed by leaving
the place a wilderness when the whole tendency of
the times is in the direction of beautifying the city’s
open spaces.
* * * *
Practically always, where a confidence-
man succeeds, he does it by persuading his victim
that he (the victim) is a long-headed citizen who is
going to get the better of someone else. This was
the basis of a ramp at Epping (N.S.W.) last week,
when a magsman got £lO off two soldiers by telling
them that he wanted the cash to square the rider of
the favorite in a race in which the mugs had backed
another horse. The type of person who is victim-
ised by confidence tricksters has a particularly soft
spot in his head for the man who frankly admits
that he is out to swindle —someone else. Here are
two useful axioms for the young: (1) The stranger who
admits to you that he intends to take down someone
else on your behalf is always after you alone; (2)
in a four-handed card game the stranger cutting with
a friend who, as a card-player, stands on the edge of
the imbecile class, is invariably a sharp. The idea
is to make you think you have him at a disadvan-
tage owing to his idiot partner. When the betting
begjns you discover your error. Needless to say no
man of the world dreams of gambling with travelling
or other chance acquaintances. But the average
Digger is trustful, and the rail and racecourse
swindling business is looking up accordingly.
* * * *
The mule is coming into its own even in
England. About 100 of them were sold last month
in London at Tattersall’s (Knightsbridge) Yard —a
famous resort which for over a century has handled
nothing but the best class of hunters, coachers and
thoroughbreds. The mules were bought by London
and provincial tradesmen for light-draught work.
“Te Kaahu Mataara”: The stamina of
“down south” horses was again demonstrated at a
big military race meeting held in Cairo on New
Year’s Day, when three horses from the 2nd A.L.H.
Brigade and one from the M.L. Brigade won four
out of six races, running against the pick of the
military horses from all units of the Egyptian Ex-
peditionary Force. An exceptionally fine perform-
ance was put up by Cobar in running a close second
to his regimental mate Mazar in a field of 20, con-
sidering that he has been a trooper’s hack for three
years, doing hard desert and mountain work. The
pity of it is that we can’t take horses like that hack
to nibble Australian grass again.
Victorian jumper Nick-a-Jack, a son of
Flagship, makes a hobby of annexing the V.R.C.
Autumn Hurdle Race, lie romped away with the
stake again this year for the third time in succes-
sion. G. Scobie was up; but it doesn’t seem to
matter to the horse what jockey rides. Last year
it was E. McTaggart; in 1917 it was P. Robertson.
Naturally he started favorite; backers seldom come
across sueli a consistent performer.
Lancer Plume, who took the River Handi-
cap on the third day of the V.R.C. Autumn meet-
ing, had not won a race before that for close on
three years. Twelve months ago he was sold for 50
guineas. And yet he was the pick of the punters.
He, like New Tipperary, winner of the Australian
Cup, is by Positano.
* * * *
Governor Galway, of S.A-, who plays
almost every game that can be mentioned, took a
sporting part in the tennis tournament just ended.
He plays a good game for a man of close-on 60, but
has not been able to bring his style up-to-date in the
matter of volleying. As tennis is now played, a
man who does all his work in doubles on the back
line has not much hope, good though his lobs may
be—-and the Galway tossing is very good indeed.
In the open handicap, playing with Paxton, lie was
beaten by the hard hitting of two youngsters, Bundey
and Hone. In the veterans’ match he and A. J.
Roberts were put out by Gunson and Mills.
* * * *
Colonel Semmens, Director of Fisheries, is
trying to catch up with the trout-loving cormorant,
now swarming on most Victorian inland waters, by
supplying free cartridges to approved persons. The
State has spent large sums in stocking creeks and
rivers with imported fish, with excellent results; and
the beastly cormorant is now coming forward to reap
the harvest, devouring an average of 20 per meal.
As the bird has over a dozen meals a day and “beats”
the streams in co-operative flocks so as not to miss
anything, Semmens’s plan looks a good one to most
sportsmen who don’t like to spend 3d. a head them-
selves for dead .cormorants. But it will take many
cartridges to get the streams full again.
* * #• »
Sydney junior cricket had tall smiting on
Saturday. A. Dunstan (Arncliffe) biffed 255 v.
Carlton ; and E. Newman (Newington) 297 v. Scots.
Newman, a promising all-rounder, was in Combined
G.P.S. v. University at Sydney last year.
J. Bogle’s 16 for Sydney Uni. v. Middle
Harbor on Saturday lifted his aggregate to 1043 for
the season—two runs better than Jim Mackay’s
record for Sydney grade cricket. Bogle will have
one more match to further swell the total.
* * *
With the ball, J. A. O’Connor’s eight for
66 for Waverley v. Sydney was the lone big effort in
Sydney cricket on Saturday. The veteran has
taken 17 wickets in the last three matches, and, alto-
gether, 42 this season. He tripped with Noble’s
Australian XI in 1909.
At Port Chalmers (M.L.) recently wicket-
keeper Whyte stumped four batsmen off successive
halls. The effort helped bowler King to bag eight
Wickets for three runs!
* * * *
There was lively hitting in the Aucldand-
Wellington (M.L.) interprovincial match recently.
Auckland made 522 (Ilemus 136, Midlane 126) ;
Wellington replied with 426 (Beechey 180, W.
Baker 124). Second innings were howlers’ picnics:
Auckland fell for 159, Wellington for 197. Auck-
land, therefore, won by 58.
L. Donovan’s 147 for University v. Peter-
sham in Sydney grade cricket on Saturday were
scored in 95 minutes, and 104 (including two
sixers) were in boundaries. Donovan’s previous
century this season was 124 v. Middle Harbor a
few weeks ago.
S. Aus. Cricket Association has decided to
give an illuminated address to “Charlie” Checkett,
its retiring head ground-man. Also it has opened a
“shilling fund,” starting with 1000. The first care-
taker S. Aus. had was Jesse Hide, the Sussex pro-
fessional. That was in the days of the English idea
that a cricket coach should he also a gardener. It
is not the modern idea, and Checkett, in his 37 years
of service, has never been much of a cricketer. His
shirt-front wickets, however, are as famous as his
tennis-lawns have become lately. He claims to have
a special method of preparation, and does not care
to reveal it. The one sensational incident in his
carder was when a visiting England XI, arriving one
morning to bat, found that somebody—presumably
with money on the match—had soaked the pitch with
water during the night. The culprit was never dis-
covered ; but the wicket has ever since been guarded
during big matches. Checkett thinks the most
brilliant single performance he ever saw the 124
of Percy McDonnell, against George Giffen’s bowling,
about 1884.
* * * *
Frank Darcy beat Barney Thompson, the
Victorian champion, on a foul at Sydney Stadium
last Saturday night. The fight was his, anyhow.
Like Les he is very strong and can take unlimited
punishment. Furthermore, under Dave Smith he
has improved a lot as a boxer. He looks more like
a coming champion than anything in the Aus-
tralian ring at present.
* * * *
Jack Green, the N.S.W. bantam cham-
pion, knocked out the Victorian champion Scates
on Monday night at Sydney Stadium. Scates never
had a hope from the sounding of the first cong,
and his downfall occurred in the tenth round.
Mischief, sailed by Captain Stan Spain,
took the Sydney Amateur Club’s Invitation Race .in
Saturday from a big fleet. Sea Belle and Rana wore
the other placed boats. The 18-footers blew out for
the Sydney Sailing Club, and there were some close
finishes. Swastika raced home first in the second
heat, and later led Kismet (winner of the first
heat) over the line in the final.
N.S.W. Rifle Association is to lie on its
stummick in October and bore holes in the bull’s-
eye. The target-murderers are going to try to get
the Anzac range at Liverpool and persuade the
“authorities” to work the system of marking now in
use in G and H blocks at Rundwick. There are 110
targets on the Anzac range, and the railway deposits
the shooters within a few yards of the ”1000-yard
mound. Not decided yet whether some sort of
accommodation will be provided for competitors on
the range; or whether some of the huts in the camp
will be available.
* * * #
N, S. Wales amateur cycling champion-
ships at Sydney on Saturday were split between
Gerald Halpin and W. C. J. Walker. Halpin took
the “half” in Imin. 17 4-ssec,; Walker reversed the
placing's in the 10 miles, and won in 23min. 24sec.
11l the N.S.W. 150yds. ladies’ swimming
championship at Sydney on Saturday Fanny Durack
clipped the world’s record down to Imin. 52 4-ssee.
Mina Wylie, for the manyth time, was close up, with
the third competitor 20yds. away. Miss lhirack's
world’s records are now 50 yards (27sec.j, 100 yards
(66sec.), 220 yards (2min. 53sec,), 300 yards (4min.
(2 l-ssec,), 440 yards (Oinin. 3 2-ssec.), 500 yards
(7min. 8 l-ssee.), 880 yards (12min. 42sec.) and
mile (2(smin. Bsee.).
Keith Kirkland (Spit Club) again stag-
gered the timekeepers at Sydney on Saturday by
winning a heat over 100 yards in 56 2-ssec. —a tick
better than his time of the previous week. In the
final ha was second to generously-handicapped N.
Solomon (19sec.), who won in 71sec. Kirkland
would have had to smash world’s figures to win; still
he is getting close to Kahanamoku’s world’s record
(53 4-ssec.) put up at Sydney in 1915.
* * * *
Old Jack Power, a rattling
good all-round ped. in his day, came to light last
Saturday with a pair of iron jumping standards as a
gift to the V.A.A.A. in memory of the amateur
athletes who fell in the big fight, though the gift
was made in the name of Allan Gordon, of the Mel-
bourne Harriets, a. fine worker for the sport. B. ,J.
Parkinson, in unveiling the memorial, mentioned that
1000 harriers had gone to the Front, and the
brilliant “Rusty” Hunter had paid in full at the
Landing. I would suggest to A. A. Associations
throughout Australasia to name different annual
handicaps after such men.
* * * »
The.first Vic. Amateur Athletic champion-
ships since the war broke out were decided on
the Amateur Sports Ground, Melbourne, on Saturday,
when one or two performances gave the meeting tone.
H. Harbison cleared sft. 10in., and tied with Fitz-
patrick at Oft. in the pole vault. But the star was
B. J. Linehan, East Melb. Harriers, who ran away
with all the sprints, winning the 100 yards in
10 4-ssec., the 220 yards in 25sec., and the quarter-
mile in 521 sec., pulling up. Writer was most
impressed with the “quarter” performance. S.
Nicholls, the _ very promising distance man with a
knack of getting over the ground like Alfred Shrubb,
won both the three-miles flat and the two-miles steeple
in a canter. Nicholls will turn some miles behind him
in as creditable time as any runner seen in the
“cabbage State” for vr-is. Through L. V. Mudge
won the three-miles walk by hundreds of yards, he
was pipped by the more experienced Cox over the
mile. But, really, it would he far better for
“Dickey” Coombes and his associates to reconsider
the so-called walks and call ’em ambling champion-
ships. In view of the forthcoming Australasian
meeting to be held at Sydney, the Vies, are turning
over all the new material available and making a
few discoveries. Cumming, a Melbourne Grammar
boy, caught writer’s eye recently as a half-miler with
strength, style and gameness to equal anything
ever in shoes at the distance, provided nothing goes
wrong with his development.
* * * _ *
In the final for the N. S. Wales “pairs”
howling championship J. Strong and Harry Moses
(Ashfield) were regarded as a cert., but J. Purcell
and E. Pierce (Gladstone Park) squeezed in by
19-17. The Pennant also came near an end when in
the semi-finals City defeated Waverley by 102-90,
and Parramatta unchivalrously jumped on Rvde by
118-65. The final will shake the earth this week-end.
* * * *
In a jumping contest at Armidale
(N.S.W.) the other day H. Cameron’s Best Girl
was the only moke to get over the bar at 6ft. 7in.,
and- so gained first prize. Then A. Payne’s Vice-
Regal and J. Longworthy’s Corinda jumped for
second place. These two asked for more elevation
until both had cleared 7ft. 2in.—or 7in. higher than
the winner. At the next lift both failed. The riders
were each given £lO.
* * * *
The sensational finish in the Cardinal’s
Cup at St. Pat.’s sports (Sydney) on Saturday is
rarely seen in athletics nowadays. Three yards from
the finish Knispel, who was running third, dived and
broke the tape with inches to spare. Knispel’s chest
was first but his feet were third. This finishing was
a fine art in the pro. days in Sydney.
THE DRIVER’S FAREWELL TO HIS MULES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“A number of A.I.F. mules have been sold in pairs
to Belgian farmers.” — Cable.
My good old Argentina donks, before next April
ends
I hope to be upon my homeward way,
And you and I, who all these yeai'3 have been the
be3t of frieni S,
Our last farewells to Service life will say.
Forget the language that 1 used to you from time
to time
When all of us were living hard in Belgium’s slush
ami grime.
A foreign civvy's hand will hold the reins when next
you head
Along the grim, straight road through Dickebuseh,
On which we carried ammo, tb the City of the Dead,
When Fritz was nutting up his final push.
The district should be calmer than it was in days
gone by
When ironware rained down from every angle of the
sky.
Green gi-ass will cover up the dust that once was
Zilloheke,
And tint the shell-torn fields of Wulverghem.
Hamlets will spring like magic from the sweeping
stream of wreck
That all the world was powerless then to stem;
You still will work, where we three lived, in cold and
filth and rain,
But I—thank God !—shall never see the cursed place
again.
So-long, old friends! I only wish that you were
coming, too;
You had your little faults, but, by and large,
There never was a Belgian from the coast to
Waterloo
Half-good enough to take your sort in charge.
May corn and oats and easy days be always where
you are,
And may you both be dead before you know another
war 1
iM.W.
10-2-4.


LEARN HOW TO DEFEND YOURSELF
TO-DAY NOW!
The fear of getting a thrashing prevents many a man from asserting his
manliness when the occasion for doing so arises.
Have YOU the necessary confidence in your ability to take your own part
in the world—to assert your manliness the moment you should be called
upon to do so?
A knowledge of Boxing, sMch as I impart to you through my course of
Postal Instruction, will give you confidence in yourself and ability to
deliver a sound thrashing to any aggressive fellow who may cross your
It nath.
I TEACH BOXING
BY POST.
The instruction is practical, simple and easily under-
stood. It thoroughly explains and illustrates every
serviceable move in scientific boxing.
Write to-day for my interesting Booklet, ‘‘SCIEN-
TIFIC BOXING IN YOUR HOME,” which describes
my methods, terms, etc. Just write your name and
address across this advertisement, and send it to
me, with three penny stamps for postage.
REG. L. BAKER,
“The All-round Champion Athlete of Australia,”
1 MUNICIPAL BUILDINGS, 82 OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY.
g^TT?
■<j
”Vv
ft
m
*
mi
SHEtfe
THE CHOICE
OF THE PEOPLE
UM
iiii id'i mil
iae
NO
The Returned Mar
Rides ,
Hes oeen it on the 10b in France
' and knows tha' no machin" can
match n fo ‘ power, strength
and endurance.
Catalogue from
otor Cycle Co
m':
Rho^o9
STREET MELBOURNE
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOR
MINING, MILLING, etc.
INCLUDING
STEAH ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL BE POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO
THE SECRETARY,
Box 229 G.P.0.,
MELBOURNE.
THE GENERAL MANAGER,
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND,
THE SECRETARY,
Box 220 0.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
Send for Catalogue,
:
f a
i 2
i v.
m
&■:
Reliable Forges & Drills for the
Farmer, Blacksmith & Engineer
FARMERS located far from the blacksmith will do well to have a forge and drill.
They save their cost easily in enabling you to make repairs right on the spot. Not
only that, but they help you to keep tools, etc., in good order.
BLACKSMITHS cannot do without a drill, and these Benson Bros.’ Drills are
easily the best value. Portable forges are rapidly replacing the old type of
ground forge, because of their speed and convenience.
ENGINEERS —We have a big variety of forges and drills suitable for every type
of workshop, either small or large. Write for leaflets giving full particulars of
these tools.
BENSON BROTHERS LTD.,
76-78 Liverpool Street, SYDNEY.
71-75 Queen’s Bridge Street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
138 Currie Street, ADELAIDE.
Fluid
Magnesia
for Indigestion.
Kiiujo/TaMf Wat
Corvhainb
Lint-Soda | (C‘|
hmihtMomik^
f k
*4& «T
1 1
*r
iiuvuv*
J»*V <££
jS" l *
«At %.
There's a Holiday in Every
The “Burberry Weatherproof
The Ideal Coat
for Present Wear.
Now that broken weather is prevail-
ing the Burberry Coat is more than
ever an essential item of the well-
dressed man’s wardrobe.
Light as air, but warm enough for all
requirements—porous and self-ven-
tilating—rubberless, yet proof against
the heaviest downpour. Never a bur-
den to wear or carry, the “Burberry”
stands alone as an All-weather Coat.
Apart from its Practical Value, the
“Burberry” possesses, that Distinction
of Texture and the Exclusive Cut
which have made it a Style-leader in
every civilised country.
New Shipment
Just Arrived.
Our Latest Shipment features the very
Newest “Burberry” Designs for MEN and
WOMEN. That illustrated is the famous
“Burberry” Slip-on, than which there is
nothing more suitable for Australians’ wear.
Full Particulars and
Prices post free on
application.
If you want the Best
Buy a “BURBERRY.”
I
(mb
II
LINCOLN, STUART 8 CO. PTY. LTD.,
Appointed “Burberry” Agents for Victoria,
244-254 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE.


A Business Man
things in terms of “service, ”
and expects from his wearing
apparel, service in ihe high-
est degree. In PELACO
Collars he is never disap-
pointed. The fact that their
style sacrifices nothing to
their quality and service-
ability accounts for the wide
popularity of PELACO
Collars. Sold by reliable
Mercers everywhere, as are
also PELACO Shirts and
Pyjamas.
COLLARS
Made in
A ustralia
“THERE’S MONEY IN THE PEN."
5s
The above
is the title
of our book-
let, which
tells about
the possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
by HARRY J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
difference between
learning to COPY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains, in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
peniiy .stamps
to-day for a
copy of this
booklet—
'THEßE’S
MONEY
IN
THE
PEN.’*
The HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
111 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY.
Tourists
For the Melbourne section of
your tour arrange accommodation
at the Queen’s Arms Hotel.
Centrally situated, modern, with
comfortable airy rooms and excel-
lent cuisine, it will meet the tourist s
every ideal.
Tariff by the day .. 10/6.
QUEEN’S ARMS
HOTEL
L C? SWANSTON ST
Ik ft FUNDERS LANE
».9AUOt,B.KtRO H£_--
am
STOP that Stammering! You can stop your stam-
mering and become as clear and fluent in speech
as the best speaker you know. Your impediment is
a mental trouble, which can be overcome by Prof.
F. W. Foote’s Home Study Course. This course
is the life’s work of the leading American Psycholo-
gist. Increased business opportunities will open up
before you once you master your present drawback.
Write to-day for Prospectus “O.” Jas. Rodger & Co.,
159 E Manchester Street, Christchurch, N.Z. [l2
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
An y Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Clover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
states, 3d.
Don’t Leave the Easter Show
Until You See these
T hor oug'hbr ed Saddles
Hi r ’
SB
r.
■
i ' £ |
: >
m
HW’ 4' a,,.
The
LONGREACH.”
YOU’LL NOT BE
ABLE TO RESIST
BUYING ONE .
TheLOHGREACH”
THE COMFORT SADDLE.
You sit in it with a sigh of content and
at the same time you are quite safe for a
buck. The position of the pads high up
along the rider’s thighs gives perfect
security. The flap and skirt are com-
bined in one piece and seamed direct on
to the seat, so there is nothing to chafe
the leg there. The. whole saddle is made
of nice, flexible, kip leather on our
“Fouright” tree. It is fitted with folded
leather girth, bevelled leathers and
solid nickel stirrups.
£ll/10/-
Freight Free for Cash to
any Port or Railway Sta-
tion In N. S. Wales.
Buyers in Queensland and
other States, write. Liberal
Freight Concessions.
ADO 1/6 TO YOUR ORDER FOR A SALT LICK.
The “WINTON.”
The stockman who knows a good
saddle when he sees it will agree that
this is
THE PERFECT STOCK SADDLE.
It has the non-chafing combined Flap
and Skirt seamed direct on to the
seat, and exceptionally narrow grip.
The tree is our “Fouright,” the best
we make. The pads are also set high
up along the rider’s thighs. The
panel has broad leather points down
sides extending beyond the flaps, so
that here is no chafing of the horse.
The fittings are folded leather girth
bevelled leathers and solid nickel
stirrups.
Freight Free for Cash with
T 9 I / r 1 11 order to any Port or Rail-
v way Station in N. S. Wales.
Our Show Pavilion is round by
the cattle section, opposite the
Members’ Grandstand, and you
will see 50 Saddles to choose
from.
Walther 8 Stevenson
SADDLERS, Ltd.
393 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The
WINTON
-sjid tfte toilers step Orows
lighter- Goiigno me!
His day’s work done-smokes his (G.B.P,
A sweet,cooPsmoke, from parch and tongue-bite free.
m
m
iW
'J'HE GBD is the cosmo=
polite of pipes—it is
popular everywhere; a
favorite of artisan and
aristocrat; a pipe you will
appreciate because it is a
GOOD pipe through and
through.
Many popular shapes. Sold everywhere.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted ; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
R.D.H.: It is quite possible for a co. to
be in a position to declare a bonus, in the form of
shares, without being able to hand actual cash to the
shareholders. “Reserves” —that is, undivided profits
—are rarely held liquid; it generally pays the co.
much better to use the money in the business. All
the same, there is a solid objection to the practice
of issuing partly-paid shares as a bonus without
giving shareholders the option to take cash. ...
Elvins: Nothing better than War Loan. Actually
1923 5 p.c. loan is now selling at a price to return
over 0 p.c., taking into consideration that for
£95 10s. you will get £lOO in about four years’
time. .. .Joyce: Can’t return unaccepted pars....
L.G.: Have it either “thou” or “you.” You’can’t
mix them in that nerve-shattering way.... J.A.W.:
Vivid scrap : —•
Behind a hoary apple-tree
That cocky “cocked” his gun,
Did take a deadly aim at me,
Didst say: “Hands up, my son!”
Bang! He did have a “pot” at me,
As homewards I did run.
... .E.A.W.: Nowhere near. .. . E.T.: Very poor try.
C.S.G.: Not up.... Professor M.: Horrible verse
which hovers between a nursery-rhyme and a lunatic
asylum. Keep to the water-divining—it’s safer....
E.O’G.: Very crude... . 1.M.M.: Too feeble... .N,K.:
Not nearly... .E.D.: We haven't a children’s column.
. ...F.S.: Not up to the mark.... Galloping George:
Dismal wail. Rejected. .. .J. 0.: Don’t like it well
enough... .Bolshe: Bad verse. .. .S.M.: “Love’s
Right” doesn’t move us. .. .R.J.8.: Rather a crude
light on a very ancient controversy.... Whim: No.
.. . .P.A.: Sudden and obvious. .. .Yvonne: We didn’t
get the excitement out of it either... . F.M.R.:
Frankly, no. .. .Bcllerive: There’s a heartbreak in
every line: —*
Wildly raved Duffy, of the woodsplitters’ camp,
Under the effects of the horrid d.t.’s,
When roughly borne by powerful men to
The hut amidst the sheltering trees ;
A good axeman was Duffy, when off the drink,
But a shadow hung over he’s life —
In a lurid bushfire up Gippsland way
Burnt to death was lie’s baby and wife.
A sad tragedy of the lonely bush,
Poor Duffy related with tears,
A bereavement which preyed on lie’s mind
Jn the prime of he’s manhood .years.
’Twas Christmas in Melbourne town
When I met an old splitter named Pain
Who told me poor Duffy met his death
’Neatli the wheels of a speeding train.
.. . .L.G.C.: Sorry ; the yarn doesn’t satisfy. .. .
C-B.B.: When did. you ever see anything like that in
this paper?... .S.J.C.: Poor attempt. .. .A.F.: Don’t
like those “Eyes.”... .M.T.S.: As verse it has little \
merit 3.5.: “Flame” no good. Others might sell
elsewhere.... A.E.Y.: A mixed lot. Some of it
acceptable. Give us more room between the lines.
. ...E.J.L.: “Destiny” too slight. .. .Jackaleen : Not
up. ...Will Trion: Nothing in “Smith.”... .J.
Damascus: Wanted a much lighter hand. .. .A.R.D.R.:
Not for us J.D.H.: Ditto J.N.M.: No use
Monsoon: Might sell somewhere else... .N.M.W.: A
long way off. .. .J.P.8.: Not up. .. .M.R.: Not enough
there... .W.E.8.: Don’t like “Dr. Halley.”... .Wan-
derer: Couldn’t find a thrill in it.... Hurst Crowe:
“Two Thousand” fails... .S.C.: Not nearly....
C.F.P.: Rather obvious, with ene line that bumps.
....Grass Tree: Not enthusiastic enough about the
yarn to take a translated story which, for all we
know, may have appeared in English... .Jonah:
Didn’t move us. .. .E.M.P.: Far too rugged....
C.M.L.: Not improved as it might be. . . .M.A.: Don’t
like “Blind Love,” though there is force in it....
R.M.: Sorry ; but it hasn’t the touch. .. .T.G.: Does
it mean anything?. .. .Trencher: Doesn’t hit u 5....
G. R. McAustral: Hasn’t got the feeling... ,B.B.:
Verse not up, and theme rather hoary ... .J.S.:
“Thunderstorm” fizzles 0ut....1.5.: Horrible....
►N.V.M.:. Doesn’t strike us. ...A.S.: “Helen” and
the “Piping” fall down in some lines. Revise them.
... . J.T.A.: No use. .. .S.E.T.J.: Bush stories have
to be done a lot better than that. .. . W.G.W.: Yarn
too tangled. Worth attention. .. .8.G.: No use here.
. ...J.R.: Misses the ’bus —a bad miss... .8.C.: Not
quite. . . .S.W.AV.: Far too rough. . . .R.A.8.: Nothing-
in it.... E.F.: Commonplace.... Vinct: An idea, but
not well enough handled... .E.V. and C.W.M.: No.
... .R.E.: Nearly. Try something less dismal... .
Arne P.: The work in “Unwritten” is almost good
enough to push the unpleasant thing in....R.: There
was no reflection on Sellheim or any of the others
as soldiers. The point, which was made clear, was
that they had not seen service in this war, while
there were plenty of others who had, and that, in
order to command the confidence of the men liable
to come before courts-martial, the latter should be
composed of returned combatants.... lete: Quite im-
possible. Can’t you see what the article conveys?
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
N. 8.: A flicker of promise, but you’ve heaps to
learn... .N.L.0.: Perspective is one of your troubles.
.. . . A.J.McR.: White, expressionless faces like tomb-
stones. .. .Perce C.: Good try. .. .K.W.H.: Can’t use
any of them.... E.R.: Why drag that gag out of its
tomb and send it off arm-in-arm with a bad drawing ?
. ...J.CI: Very hard and wiry line and antique jest.
. ...A.W.: It’s only a one-atid-ninepenny nightmare.
.... A.8.R.: Suppose you learn something about art
first?... .T. 0.5.: The faithful Webster will bear it
back to you... .Woodicus: Two failures. .. .G.P.W.:
Some quality about it, but not useable. Note how
awkwardly you’ve placed the girl’s hand....
G.C.McI.: All fail. .. .S.R,: Noah cackled over that
on the 39th day of the F100d.... G.L.: All weak
and watery... .M.M.: Not for us... .D.H.S.: Very
crude drawing, and the smart retort dates back to
1913.
George Wise, who helps to run the
Defence Department, is still the uncrowned
king of the Vic. A.N.A. At the Horsham
conference he came out near the top in the
ballot for the board of directors. Lemmon,
Labor member for Williamstown, was a few
votes ahead, but that was a tribute to his
work in endeavoring to settle the medical
dispute. When George Moir proposed a
comprehensive motion for expanding the
Federal powers, Peacock objected to giving
a blank cheque to the Board to advo-
cate anything and everything. Wise
chipped in with a reminder that the
blank cheque was given trustfully before
Federation, and one of the custodians was
Peacock himself. This broke the back of
Peacock’s opposition, and the proposal to
put the Commonwealth Constitution in the
melting-pot won the day.


«w
is
. —•>->*
XT SKID E
■ H ’
ft!
Timber from all parts
of the world is used
in making the Beale
Piano. Walnut, Rose-
wood, Sycamore, as
well as local Oak,
Maple and Black
Bean, are all treated
—in many cases being
worked up from the
rough log. The above
sketch shows timber
being stored in the
water till wanted. This
prevents splitting.
Later (this moisture is
dried put of the wood.
We were the first firm
in Australia/ to start
cutting veneer for any
purpose whatever. The
veneer sheer shown
below will cut paper-
thin veneers direct
from logs, five feet
square by eight feet
long. As we are able
to cut our own veneers
we can always select
the finest grains and
also use fine Australian
'timbers which would
not otherwise -be
available.
- - g mm* HHMnHHn
Bni
.
‘Uy' ; •"•^**
'**
.i.;
sK
_✓* /Jk <%m
/, £ <1
si® m
r, r sr / j
T _. j
mm
Sm*
5H I
** : ' ‘, j
it ‘ M
13 * ;
' f
mm I mil l m
M
UMi
'J
fc-sawM
AFTER being treated in the
drying room, all veneer is
sent to the veneer store. Here
it is rigidly examined for
defects; assorted, graded, and cut into
various sizes. Great quantities are regu-
larly discarded as not being up to the
Beale standard. Not only must our veneers
be right in quality, but the graining must
be well marked. This making of veneer
shows how thorough is the determination
of the Beale organization to thoroughly
control all processes which can affect the
quality of their instrument.
This illustration shows
a vertical saw wliich
is used for breaking
down the huge logs
into “flitches” and
‘slabs” of workab'.s’!
size. These are further
cut up into boards and
planks by our large
circular saws or cut
into veneers by the
veneer-machine.
Every log is carefully
chosen with the idefc
as to its ultimate use.
Every Beale Piano is
guaranteed hi writing
for twenty five years.
This is just about twice
as long as most makers
guarantee their instru-
ments. It is a“worth-
while”guarantee, too.
The Beale Organi-
sation is here in
Australia, where it
can be called upon to
make good. > The
guarantee of a maker
15,000 miles away is
pretty hard to enforce.
mss
mM
' S
■
fw
A
crJJTL 60 S,
333 Geor<
>e Si
ety:
i
rectory:
41*477r af-al ax Si
AHNANDALE.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE COMMONWEALTH.
m «
" : ?
4-0


“Schoolma’am”: There are other madden-
ing departments besides Webster’s. My N.
S. Wales subsidised school, with a growing
roll-call, was opened a, year ago. We want
school material, especially “readers” and
atlases. To date none have arrived, though
I have received various bundles of official
forms which have to be filled in weekly,
monthly and quarterly, relative to averages,
unsatisfactory attendances, religious beliefs,
and so forth. To each application I make
for books, I receive the reply: “Will you i
kindly make application again?” This has
already happened four times. Meanwhile
we struggle along as best we can, hoping
each mail will bring us the books. Do you
think a city or nice suburban school has to
go without “readers” and atlases? And
then people ask why country people crowd
into the cities.
Public Notice.
THE TONGKAH HARBOUR TIN
DREDGING CO. N.L.
Notice of Dividend.
'VTOTICE IS HEREBY' GIVEN that a
A-’ Dividend (the 32nd) of Ten per cent.,
x-i rTVw? Shillings per share, amounting to
i 15,000, has been declared, payable on
22nd April, 1919, and for this purpose the
Share Register will be closed from the 15tli
to the 22nd April inclusive.
By Order of the Board,
_ , H. J WISE, Manager.
igDated at Hobart this 14th day of March.
Missing l Friends.
ANY information from or concerning
WILLIAM CHARLES MOIR, last
heard of in Sydney about 18 years ago, will
be very gratefully acknowledged by his sister,
Miss Moir, 35 Dunnottar Avenue, Stone-
haven, Scotland.
D E Estate of ALFRED HENRY HINES,
late of Rocky Creek, via Ashford, in
the State of New South Wales.
The brother of the above-named deceased,
last heard of at Deepwater, or any person
acquainted with his whereabouts, is re-
quested to communicate with the undersigned
regarding the estate of the abovenamed.
T. W. GARRETT,
r , _ Public Trustee.
Public Trust Office,
Culwulla Chambers,
Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
RE McGRATH, JOHN, late of Clarks
Hill, near Ballarat, Farmer, deceased.
If WILLIAM McGRATH, a son of the
abovenamed deceased, will communicate with
the undersigned he will hear something to his
advantage.
PONG, 26 Lydiard Street, Ballarat,
Victoria, Solicitor for the Executors in
the Estate of John McGrath, deceased.
R" E ANNE WILLIAMS (Widow 1,
Deceased. If WILLIAM JONES
son of Griffith and Ann Jones and brothei
of the late Anne Williams of Min-Y-Don.
Llysdulas,. Amlwch, Anglesey, North Wales,
Great Britain, who was last heard of at
Kangaroo, will communicate with the under-
signed, he will hear to his advantage.
HOWARD, LAYCOCK & CO.,
Solicitors,
33 Princess Street, Manchester,
England.
Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Tlientres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
f IVOII THEATRE, SYDNEY
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday at 2.30.
MY LADY FRAYLE.
A delightful Musical Play in Two Acts.
Plan at Nicholson’s and the Tivoli.
"|* , IVOLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
hugh d. Mclntosh presents the reigning
SUCCESS OF LONDON,
THE BETTER ’OLE.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- & 1/-, plus tax.
CRITERION TREAT It E. SYDNEY.
0 Direction .1. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF MAYTIME.
SATURDAY NEXT, MARCH 29.
The Leading American Comedy Star, M. B.
FIGMAN, together with LOLITA ROBERTSON
in
NOTHING BUT THE TRUTH.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Day Sales at Callose’s.
UER MAJESTY’S, SYDNEY.
■ ■ Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF HELLO, EVERYBODY!
SATURDAY NEXT.
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO.,
Including FLORENCE YOUNG,
in
MAYTIME.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Day Sales at White Rose.
THEATBE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
* Lessees J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
Direction ALLEN DOONE
EVERY EVENING.
ALLEN DOONE and his Versatile Company,
Headed by Miss EDNA KEELEY, in the charming
Drama,
TOM MOORE.
U
it
Plan at Paling’s.
PICTURE THEATRES
TIIE PICK OF THE WORLD’S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest in Australia.
CRYSTAL, PALACE, LYCEUM,
STRAND, GLOBE, LYRIC, EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC, GRAND, KING’S CROSS,
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatre* Ltd.
Amusements.
Elt MAJESTY'S THEATRE, MELBOUUNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
•T. C. AVILLIAMSON LTD. PRESENT THE
TREMENDOUS PANTOMIME EXTRAVAGANZA.
GOODY TWO SHOES.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
T II EA T It E It OyA L, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present Everybody’s
Favorite,
MURIEL STARR, in •
THE GREAT DIVIDE.
ICING’S THEATKE, MELBOURNE.
rv Lessees: BAILEY & GRANT.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, MARCH 29.
J. & N. TAIT Present the Brilliant American
Success,
THE EYES OF YOUTH.
Prices as usual. Plan at Allan’s.
D RINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE
• Lessees J. & N. TAIT.
Direction FRANK RIGO.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT. MARCH 29.
FIRST PRODUCTION OF PUCCINI’S FAMOUS
OPERA,
LA BOHEME.
Popular Prices: 6J-', 4/-, 2/- (plus tax).
G. D. PORTUS, General Manager.
Amusements.
jy| A.IESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, MARCH 29.
SPEICAL FEATURE.
RUTH ROLAND in
THE FRINGE OF SOCIETY.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
Plan at Allan’s.
M OYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
1 * Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
ELSIE FERGUSON in A DOLL’S HOUSE.
and
JACK PICKFORD in
MILE-A-MINUTE KENDALL.
Prices as usual.
gT VERY REEL A REAL ATTRACTION.
METRO FILMS.
SHOWING THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALASIA.
|y| ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATIIE,
WORLD, FOX and SELZNICK.
gJRITANNIA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
PRESENTING THE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. and 6d,
AGAINST
We never raised the orice of any of our
enormous stock of Diamonds during the war
period.
After the first year of the war, Diamonds rose
by leap§ and bounds, some 50, some 100 per
cent., but we have not altered our prices.
Our Managing Director was in Antwerp five
weeks before war started, and bought at pre-
war prices in tens of thousands, and so we
have still a 12 months’ supply of Diamonds.
Then, too, we think it will pay us better to
increase our Customers than to profiteer for a
time.
We therefore are selling every size of Dia-
mond at far less than London prices.
Fairfax 8 Roberts, Ltd.,
Selected Diamond, set in Platinum on Platinum
front 15ct. Brooch, 757-
Choice Diamond, set in Platinum on Platinum
front 15ct. Brooch, £l2/15/-
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 & 25 Hunter Street.
Plain Figures. Cash only.
SftrtCUAROVOU* HEALTH
OtJ-CoHiS BrotfDPk
CWorodync
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOR
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in the Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM,
ACTS LIKE A CIIAKM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery
0/ all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/S, S/-, a/-.
Made in England.
Buying Agency
* r ’ MANAGER Morr* ft Mart
(Late'Daily MairOvcrseas Buying Agency;
NOTE ADDRESS•
64. HAYMARKET, LONDON
Will buy anything for you, save time
and money, and make no charge for
its service and 20 years’ expert know-
ledge of London markets.
Personal, Horae or Business Pur-
chases —no order is too small. Quota-
tions and Catalogues (when obtainable)
furnished free. Write for free Booklet.
The 0.8. A. (W. H. GORE & CO.), 64, Haymarket, London, S.W, Cablet “ Otbuyacy, London."
Follow
the Lead
of the great army of motor cyclists
who will ride no other saddle than a
BROOKS
They know its qualities, they know the
comforts of its compensating springs,
they know the “difference” that it
makes on a road that’s rough or smooth.
Ask your Agent.
No Experience
Needed.
Nothing looks worse than an unshaven face.
Jt gives a young naan a “gawky” appearance,
g*" t to yourself fall into that class. The
tVER-READY modern razor is simple to use,
cheap and really good. No experience needed.
Merely slip in an EVER-READY blade,
lather, and the EVER-READY will shave as
well as any barber.
EVER-READY COMBINATION OUTFIT
NO. 2, comprising Ever-Readv Safety Frame
and Handle, with 12 “Radio” blades,
together tvith . the Ever-Ready automatic
stropping machine and leather strop, very
compact and in neat case.
Price 15/0 post free.
No risk of gashing the most sensitive skin,
Order one.
Manufacturers’ Selling Agency
8 Spring- Street, SYDNEY.
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell? Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office
44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
CAPILLARINE
Grows
moustaches
Quickly!
Hundreds who have used it testify to its
genuineness and efficacy as a moustache-
grower. Rub it well into the roots, and note
its quick results. Send for a Jar to-day.
PRICE 10/6 JAR—POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
<
%
v;
This is the
Registered
Trade Mark
Of the best
place to get
your
Fishing Tackle,
Guns, Rifles,
Cartridges,
Tennis Goods, etc.
Uccc^^jf^ce
318 Little Collins St., Melbourne
For our sick and wounded
BOYS.—When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Red Cross Book
Depot, Wynyard Street, Sydney.
JSZSBB
sr 1
q£i
thoroughly British and “miles” better.
N.S.W. Agents: HAMMOND <52. CO., 212 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Queensland Agents: QLD. MOTOR AGENCY LTD., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Victorian Agents: H. C. PANNIFEX, 22 MarKet Street, Melbourne.
•South Australian Agents: GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.


ECZEMA ON 10
YEAR OLD BOY
Started With Watery Blisters On
Face. Cuticura Healed.
“My little boy was about two years
old when the eczema began. It started
with watery blisters on
both sides of his face. It
used to make him scratch
his face and the skin was
red and inflamed all round
it. I used to hate to take
him anywhere.
“I read of a cure by Cuticura and
sent for a sample and kept on using
Cuticura Soap and Ointment. In one
month the trouble had disappeared.”
(Signed) Mrs. M. Maloney, 111 Darley
St., Newtown, Sydney, March 12, ’l7.
Why not prevent these distressing
troubles by making Cuticura your
every-day toilet and nursery soap aided
by touches of Ointment as needed?
Soaptocleanseand Ointment to heal.
**R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
Sold by dealers throughout the world.
rir
CHRISTIE^
SP£CIAL/3f
TWO
L/A/£3
l# s
w
WRITE
CATALOGUE
PATTERNS 0 /
MATERIALS
TO
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
&
ml
I
Rg Wm '
mm
m 1 •
§M
520 GEORG ES T SYDNEY
Zc ZIONTER S T NEWCASTLE
ELEY
CARTRIDGES
Always Reliable
a
Q
mm
tk
imH
ELEY “ACHILLES”
A deep-shell, dark blue gastight
Cartridge, loaded with ELEY
(33 g r -) Smokeless Powder and
ij oz. shot.
ELEY
*320 Revolver
ELEY
*32 Automatic
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420. George St., Sydney. N.S.W.
Wholesale:
ELEY BROS., LTD., LONDON.
THE, TOUCH TEELS
Glide smoothly, never grate
Artists, Draughtsmen, Engineers,
Architects, Drawing Students, Busi-
ness Men —these are just a few of the
classes who buy VENUS Pencils regu-
larly.
Wnd
are not a luxury , they are a
necessity for the best work.
2
Made in 17 degrees, 6B to
9H, and 3 styles of Copying.
OF ALL STATIONERS AND ARTISTS’-
MATERIAL DEALERS THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND.
€2
2
ss£
730
4
MILESi
• •I.
Most Milestones
Tyre satisfaction is measured in terms of cost
per satisfactory mile. The final cost, based
on tyre trouble avoided, is the only correct
cost. And no car is more satisfactory than
its tyres.
United States
‘Used Tread Tyre
satisfies because it is a rugged, sturdy anti-skid tyre
with the most rubber where there is most wear.
Although costing little more than the average plain
tread, it endures. And it gives most miles because
it is balanced —tread and shell give equal wear —
loss of traction, and wear and tear by friction are
largely eliminated.
Equip with this or others of the five types of United
States tyres, a complete range —a tyre for every need
of price or utility —and the products of the largest
rubber company in the world. There is real economy
in any of these United States tyres —mileage and money
economy —and the economy which lies in
getting the utmost service out of your car.
Your motor dealer will be glad to talk to
you about United States tyres.
United States Rubber Company (Australasia) Limited
Head Office: 53 York Street, SYDNEY.
Branches: 130-2 William Street, MELBOURNE
6 Mercer Street, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
DISTRIBUTORS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
The fierce abstainer faced the sun,
And roundly cursed
The flaming factor where it spun
To make men thirst.
VICTORIA. D*
“Nicko”: Last week a Brisbane firm was
paid an account by a Hun farmer. It
amounted to £2O, and the whole of it was
paid in coin. Some of these birds must
have had nice “plants” ready for an emer-
gency.
“Ivobbi” : Hooray, a new industry! The
ginger-beer wowser likes froth on it. So
quillaja bark used to be imported. When
Berlin Bill broke loose a local substitute
was chased by the Bananaland Research
Department. The result was that a local
bark was discovered which produces the
requisite froth and bubble.
Bennett Copplestone, whose name as a
writer has been made by the war, pays a
compliment to a rival in his last book. A
naval lieutenant whom he uses as a mouth-
piece apologises for absence of detail. 'Ve
are not allowed to keep a diary, and I nave
a rotten memory for those intimate details
which give life to a story. If I could keep
notes, I would set up in business as a naval
Boyd Cable.”
“Ef Mak”: In Wilsonland someone, in-
spired by Hoover’s talks on food economy,
started to tin bunny. Now you can eat
Australia’s curse cold in jelly. Served with
salad it’s the ideal dinner for a hot night.
Turned into a pot and warmed up, it makes
a quick tea when mother has stayed too long
shopping. If pig-farming gets going pro-
perly tinned rabbit and ham might become
our national dish. Why haven’t we got a
national dish, anyhow?
Australia has just started to. prove by
reason of the war pensions that it can pay
£6,000,000 or £7,000,000 more per year out
of taxation than it used to think possible. If
it had found out a lot of simple things like
that a great deal earlier there would have
been no public debt. The pensions are a
diminishing liability—the only one this coun-
try has got. It being a pity to let a dis-
covery go to waste, the maximum pension
bill should be made a permanent charge, and
every time a pensioner dies his annual allow-
ance" should be put into the Public Works
Fund or the Public, Debt Sinking Fund.
Then the community might begin to be par-
tially honest unconsciously.
“Katoa-tena”: The guard confided to a
couple of commercials that he had a case of
whisky on board. The travellers, with a
friend for whom they vouched, repaired to
the van, where the guard guaranteed to
broach the case without leaving any trace.
Opening the case he broke a bottle, captured
the contents, put the bottle back in the
envelope, watered the straw, added a little
whisky to give the right smell, and then
carefully closed the case. While the drink
was being absorbed he opined that the
owner could not possibly guess that the loss
was due to anything but an accident. “Oh,
I rather fancy that he will,” said the
stranger. “You see, I'm the owner!” But
he took it with a grin.
“Gypo” : Remember the story of the needy
old man who got in his winter’s coal by
tying a monkey to a pole, so that, passing
engine-men heaved junks of fuel at it? The
niggers of Egypt can beat that. Our trans-
port was hung up in Port Said for some
days refitting for troops, and as the niggers
bunkered another ship nearby I noticed that
numerous large lumps broke loose and
dropped into the harbor. Next day, after
the vessel had cleared out, two Gypos
arrived at the spot in a rowboat and dropped
anchor. One of them dived in and. presently
pulled himself to the surface again by the
anchor-chain. He was carrying a big piece
of coal. This performance was repeated
time after time. I put a stop-watch on the
diver and found that he remained under
water, on an average, for 40sec.. and took
about 20sec. spell in between. Many a day
I noticed these two at it, and with coal at
£l2 a ton they must have made a bit.
“0.G.Y.”: May the Lord forgive me, but
I must put the boot into the Australian
manufacturers who would not turn out a
decent article when they had the home
market to play with. Started out a few
days ago to buy an Australian ice-chest,
keeping in view the fact that proper insula-
tion and not outside appearance is the first
essential. An inspection of several well-
advjrtised makes, coupled with inquiry into
the methods of insulation, in each of them,
satisfied me that large numbers of locally-
made chests are useless, because their insula-
tion consists almost entirely of loosely-
packed asbestos paper. The tremendous
war freights knocked out the American
chests; but the disappointed buyers of in-
ferior Australian articles will buy the Yankee
goods again when they are available. Ad-
mittedly, I succeeded at last in securing an
honest Australian-made chest; but I’m wild
with the bad Australian makers of shoddy
who have played into the hands of the hust-
ling foreigners.
“0.L.”: Victoria’s more prosperous citi-
zens have been called on for spare fivers to
relieve farmers burned out during the
0tw 7 ay Forest fires, over 100 homesteads
having gone up in smoke. One man, with a
wife and seven children, was left with
nothing but his land and the clothes he and
his family stood up in; and others were in
straits nearly as terrible. Fire is the one
pest against which the farmer and house-
holder cannot adequately protect their be-
longings ; yet insurance is the exception in
the Backblocks. Then disaster comes, and
the more prudent citizen is called on to fork
out. Fire insurance doesn’t cost much, rela-
tively, and the farmer can insure almost
anything. The uninsured manufacturer
whose factory is burned down either has to
go and chase a job or borrow money on his
goodwill, if he can. The farmer in far too
many cases looks to charity. For, call it
what you like, it is charity: in the case of
subscribed moneys, at least, he doesn’t have
to repay; and generally this is the case, too,
with those who have had Government relief.
Compulsory insurance, within reasonable
limits, would seem to suit the rural-pro-
ducer’s case most effectively.


BILLIARD &SNOOKEI
\
'Mi
ran
In play they are resilient —faultless in running' —true to angle and of perfect balance.
Far and away superior to any other ball. Unaffected by climatic conditions.
BILLIARD BALLS
Sizes: l|in. l|in. 2in. 2,iin,
10/6 12/6 17/6 25/-set
(Postage on One Set—N.S.W., 9d.; Other States, 1/2).
SNOOKER BALES
Sizes; l|in. l|in 2in. 2sin.
£4/5/- £4)15/- £5/5/- £B|B/- set
(We Pay Carriage on Snooker Balls).
Sole Australasian Distributors
BC
Headquarters—Haymarket, Sydney.
New City Sports Depot: 99 King Street.
And at Newcastle and Brisbane.
Stella Power
sings exclusively for
The NEW EDISON.
The perfection of the coloratura
soprano is heard to the greatest
advantage in these noteworthy
“re-creations” by Madame Stella
Power Australia’s coming
singer. Bach number is chosen
to best illustrate the artist’s
style, and the artistic treatment
as well as the perfect rendition
even in tremendously difficult
passages are well worth careful
study. Bach cadenza and trill is
a masterpiece of voice control.
■
In itself the musical programme presented is quite charm-
ing—the melody and brilliance of the compositions lose
nothing by their Edison “re-creation” and give delight to
every hearer.
Here is the list:—
80400.
(a) BLACKBIRD’S SONG (Scott),
(b) SONGS MY MOTHER TAUGHT ME
(Dvorak).
UNA VOCE POCO T’A (A Little Voice I
Hear). II Barbiere Di Sivigrlia (Ros-
sini). In Italian.
80401.
CHARMANT OISEAU (Thou Brilliant
Bird). Ea Perle Du Bresil (David).
In French.
SPRING (George Henschel).
80402.
BED RAGGIO I.USING HEIR (Bright
Gleam of Hope). Semiramide (Ros-
sini). In Italian.
NYMPHES ET SYLVAINS (H. Bemberg).
In French.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 3(54-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
for SPEED
STRENGTH
Equip with
Spencer-Moulton
Three-Ribbed
'Vyres.
THEIR grip on loose or
saturated roads reassures
you at the first real test; their
cushion-like resiliency is always
a delight; while on sharp surfaces
their well-known toughness gives
the very highest degree of safety.
The more difficult the conditions
of climate or country, the greater
your appreciation of Spencer-
Moulton Reliability.
Send for Catalogue.
SPE NCER -MO UL TON ALL. BRITISH
SOLID RUBBER TYRES ARE WINNING
THE SAME UNIVERSAL APPROVAL.
iS3
THREE RIBBED TYRES
STOCKISTS : Cafe Town, Johannesburg,
Melbourne , Sydney, Christchurch, Welling*
ton, Cctii o, Colombo, Madras. Singapore,
Klan%, Kuala-Lumpur, Medan , Saigon.
P.C.R.-T *6
GEO. SPENCER, MOULTON & CO., Ltd.
77-79, Gannon Street, London, E.C.4,
Works : Kingston Mills, Brad ford-on-Avon, Wilts*
SB^SSaESE2
HOraJjC
iji £®JE
HOTEL
METRQPQLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay•
TARIFF from 11/6 per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 4/-
and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particu-
lars posted on application to
The Manager.
Eor our sick and wounded
BOYS. —When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Red Cross Book
Depot, Wynyard Street, Sydney.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.


Make Your Backache
Quickly Disappear.
\
Si
Mrs. E. MARSHALL (from a photo by
Monte. Luke').
I am pleased to write you about
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills. Having
suffered from Backache and Kid-
ney Trouble, it had me that I
didn’t care if I lived. I tried all
kinds of remedies. Seeing your
advertisement in the paper, I was
induced to try your pills, and, to
my delight, the first bottle did me
good. I continued with the Gin
Pills, taking half a dozen bottles,
which cured me.
I always keep a large bottle in
the house, and can recommend
them to anyone suffering as I did.
You may use this as you wish.
Yours gratefully,
(Sgd.)
Mrs. EDWARD MARSHALL,
“Ilford,”
Australia Street,
Woollahra.
Gin Pills Will Help You
t»ki," D? ShddK Sf»K« ™.L" . youftidify.
remove the cause of such troubles , tntj ge aci(ls that lodge m the joints and
make them filter out al ' ll ? P 0180 !?™ soothe and heal the bladder and quickly relieve you. They
muscles, causing Rheumatism. T . anything vou have ever used. There is nothing else
are a unique remedy entirely h ovv long vou have suffered, the very prim
rtp“TDr W Sh«l& G?n°p”S?" Sh thalit is ' practically im,»»ibl. to take them into the
h " m “ &Z&SS z i'rihe s 2%&55?.3?52u
ST'kSS, , 9SSSS‘» -»» p ”“' 1/6
and 2/6.
GUi
for BACKACHE
and Kidney Troubles
THe All/
YBritish,
CAR
LIGHT
A proved Light Car for the Owner Driver
Send your enquiry for early delivery of post-war model to-
I. PHIZACKERLEY,
169-171 Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY. .
Star jard Motor CO*,
Ltd. Coventry.
m
s
I
ms
m
veto
C£
as
imiinmiiiiiHiiiiHiiiiiiu
PRICES
1l
. PRICES
Mp ROVED EXP° P '
lights
C 93 AWARDS )
Jrfake for safety
and health.
The sensible light
for Bedroom & Nursery.
Price's patent candle company ltd.
London, Liverpool, Manchester. Glasgow.
The Mountain.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
BLACK woods ill the lap of night
Felt the stir of calling light,
While the morning flashed a spear
On the snows of yesteryear
Crag to crag made sunlit rhyme
O'er the mountain we would climb;
And the wind, with icy breath.
Crept through gorges black as death.
Silver ferns about my feet
Laughed at that cold kiss and sweet,
Then a black lark, upward springing,
Fluttered, floated, and, in ringing
Circles, set the whole world singing.
Far I heard the bleat of sheep
Moving downward as in sleep
The low tussock sidelings over
To the creek that lisped through clover,
Or with tinkles like a bell
Through the ti-tree shadows fell
To the mirror clear and cool
Of a little laughing pool.
On the stream, with sound of flutes,
Passed the rosy willow roots,
Leaped a stone and lapped a wall,
And, with noisy plash and fall.
Cried “Good-ihorning, sisters all,
To the heavy milking kine
Steaming homeward in a line.
Upward now the son had sent
Rosv heralds bearing gifts.
With his jewel-lights besprent
Were the peaks and mountain rifts.
Rubies glittered in the snow ;
And o’er purple cliffs below
Morning laid a gleaming linger
Warning darkness lest it linger
In the pass where bush and stone
Caught a mellow amber tone.
There and there our feet would seek
Stairways to the wonder-peak,
Where upon his ancient throne
Brooding quiet sat alone.
Hand in hand, through black of trees
Shaken by the morning breeze,
High we passed above the shade
To a laughing sunlit glade
Where the moss beneath our feet
Made a patterned carpet sweet,
And a rock’s grey cloven wall
Uchoed to a waterfall.
Rainbow lights through veils were seen
In the dark behind the green
Of the ragged boughs that dipped,
Leaves that tossed and plunged and dripped,
Swaying out and bending after
As if ail their soul were bent
By the mirth and merriment
Of the water’s bubbling laughter.
Up with toil of hand and knee,
Clasping shrub and stone and tree,
To the tufted slopes we came
That the mid-morn lit with flame.
Dry storm-channels wound and looped
And the crags of granite stooped
All about the way we went
Like a hoary battlement
Guarding from the hope below
Some vast thing the world should know.
Were you weary? Did your feet
Long to linger in the sweet \
Of the little flowers that grew
Yellow-hearted, white and blue?
Nay, I think I faltered there.
You had felt the finer air
Blowing softly from the height
Where the noon with hands of light
Fondled every flashing gem
In the mountain’s diadem.
On ! The shingle faces rang
To the little song you sang
As we climbed above the mist
Into winds of amethyst;
And the glory of your face
Made a wonder in that place
Where the last pale living thing
Followed not to hear you sing.
We went on—what more, what more?
What high God did we adore
Standing in the white, divine
Snow-light Qf that holy shrine?
What of wonder on our youth
Fell there from the lips of Truth?
Down the slopes at eve we came;
And our hearts were as a flame.
Blue, thin smoke curled from the trees
Softly round the mountain’s knees.
Sheep, the tussock sidelings over.
Climbed from day-long haunts of clover;
And the stream, with sound of flutes,
Glided through the willow roots,
Leaped a stone and lapped a wall,
And, with noisy plash and fall.
Cried, “Good even, neighbors all!”
And we went as in a dream
By the bridge across the stream,
Heard the water’s greeting fair,
Spoke an answer unaware.
Well we knew that crystal flow
Came from heights of lonely snow.
It had been where we had been ;
It should keep the valley green.
But a greener place had we
Where two life-streams, bubbling free,
Kvermore in shade and sun
Should in truth and love be 0ne....
And we spoke as in a dream :
“God be with you. neighbor stream!”
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
What Happened to Him.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
[This is the story just as I heard it, while we
sat by the edge of a swamp, back from the Wim-
roera. waiting for the sun to rise that we might open
the duck season in due and proper form.]
THE fightin’ was all over. Everything
was dead quiet, except that all day
long the troops gaily goin’ past
us, goin’ ’ome. Laughin’, singin’, cheerin’
like kids when school breaks up. All sorts
of soldiers: French, Tommies, Scotties,
Yanks and good old Aussies.
They didn’t give us nothing, I tell you.
Oh. it was the dead nark! While everybody
else was makin’ back 'ome. we ’ad to stop
right there in our billets. No fightin’ to do!
Just to stop there and keep guard over a
big chatto—that’s French for ouse—with a
stone wall round it. All day and all nigtiL
we done sentry duty round it, with orders
to shoot at sight anyone coming too dose.
But it was dead slow. If only a few Uns
had come along it wouldn’t have been too
bad • but for three weeks we went round
and ’round that blooming chatto and nobod}
came near except the butcher and the grocer
from the town w r ith the tucker.
1 Our officers was as sour about it as we
was. You know the brasshats have got
>omes and feelings same as other blokes,
though you wouldn’t think so of some of the
C °They didn’t know why they was kept there
to guard a quiet, dead, old chatto, while all
the others were getting back to Blighty and
drinking all the champagne and eatin all the
chickens. They knew jolly well that there
aiffit much left for them that comes ’ome
*' lK \Ve]l, this went on for a month, and then
I lines up to the Colonel. We was pretty
good cobbers was the Colonel and me.
Ses I: “Colonel, I wants some leave.
Res ’e: “So does all of us.”
Res I • “I only wants one day.
Res ’e.’ grinning: “You only wanted a week
last year in l'aris (you know, chaps, the right
name or that place is Faroe), and you lost,
your stripes over it. You don’t want to lose
’em again, now the war is over.
Res I: “But, dinkum oil, Colonel, I only
Ses ’e: “What’s the good of one day.
What ver going to do with one day t
Res I: “I wants to go and interview some-
one in the chatto. You needn’t laugh at me.
Colonel. I’ve done a lot of press work. 1
useter address the wrappers in the Dimbooia
Banner.; ain>t none 0 f my business. I
don’t know nothing about that place. My
orders are to block any enemy getting into
the chatto. and with all your faults no one
could accuse you of being an enemy.
Ses I with a grin: Except the Uns,
Colonel.” _ ,
Res ’e: “Exactly. So go away and see
that little French tart of yours m there, it
you can get in. Twenty-four hours leave.
Here’s your pass.”
Ro I saluted and ducked.
Next morning I was up before the bloom-
ing lark and got off towards the town about
three miles from our billet —they don 4: call
’em miles in France. They call em killer-
meters. I waited about till along comes the
butcher-bloke driving to the chatto with
meat and things. He pulls up when lie seen
me in uniform. They always likes to have
a crack with us Aussies.
Ses I: “Me donnie vous twenty francs,
woolly woo me allie chatto dans vot sheval
aye voicher.” That’s French for 111 give
you sixteen bob if you let me take your car.
into the chatto.” T * u
He yabbered in broken English and I told
him that I had a bint (that’s French for
tart) in there, and I wanted to see her.
Well, to cut it short, I gave him thirty
francs and he lent me his blue overcoat and
his cap. He’d wait for me there, and 1
wasn’t to be more than a couple of hours.
I put on his blue overcoat and cap, got
into the chatto all right and delivered my
meat. Then I gave my horse a feed and
looked about. '
There was a bonzer big lawn and some
marble seats round a sort of lake in the
middle of it. On one of these seats was a
bloke sitting. He had on a brown civvy s
suit and one of them German soft hats, with
a green cord and tassel instead of a band.
He had a hard brown face and fierce Ger-
man mustarsh climbing up his face. As he
sat there he looked an ordinary civvy, but 1
knew the swine.
I strolled up to him.
“What ho, Bill,” I ses, casual.
He looked me up and down like they do
in the pitcher shows; but I ain’t the sort of
chap that can be withered up with one of
them looks.
So I ses: “’Ow's the game, Bill?
Ses ’e: “What you want, butcher-man?”
Ses I: “I ain’t no butcher-man,” and I
comes a bit closer and whispers: “This coat
and ’at is camelflag! I’m here to interview
you on behalf of the Dimbooia Banner.
lie jumped up excited and danced about.
I noticed that his pockets —I mean his coat
pockets —was filled with gold quids. Thinks
I • “Ho, ho ! There’s something doing.”
Ses ’e: “But yesterday the newspapers of
the whole world was eager for just one word
from me ; to-day there’s none of them what
will give me a par.” • .
Ses I: “The Dimbooia Banner ain’t a
paper like that.”
Ses ’e: “I never did hear of that paper.
“What,” ses I. “I am s’prised ! It cirki-
lates through Pimpinio, Tarranginnie, Wail,
Wallip, Cannum, Jeparit, Noradjhua, Ant-
werp” ,
“Ah! Antwerp,” ses e, “Antwerp! Thats
good.”
You know, chaps, there’s a place m
Europe called Antwerp. I suppose it’s called
after this ’ere place near Dimbooia. So ses
1: “Well, Bill, first of all, tell me straight
’ow you come to lose the war.”
“No, no! I didn’t lose it! It’s those two
fools Loudenough and Hindy. Me and
Willie are the only two real generals in the
Faterland. Them fools wouldn’t do what I
wanted. When Willie ses: ‘Let’s go and
take Paris.’ Loudenough ses: ‘Not yet. We
haven’t drunk all the wine in Champagne
yet. Wait a week or so.’ And when I
say to Hindy : ‘Let’s go and take Verdun.'
ses ’e: ‘W T ait till we’ve eaten all the liver
sausage in Ivoln.’ And that’s how it was!
We’d have won the war if Vun O’Klock
hadn’t lost his block.”
I wrote it all down, and then I ses:
“What do you think of this ’ere army
stays?”
Ses ’e: “What do I think? What! I
don’t know English enough to express
myself; but there is one word in German
that just expresses my feelings.”
Res I: “Give it a fly.”
Ses ’e: “Sehockschwerinkreutzhimmelblitz-
donnerwerter.”
“Spell it,” ses I. “Spell it. Bill.”
And he spells it and I writes it down. I
didn’t ask him what it meant.
(Continued on next page.)


BA
BACK!
In these days of high prices it’s poor economy to
worry along with a bad back that makes the simplest
work a torture and a full day’s work impossible. If
every day brings morning lameness, sharp pains when
bending or lifting, nervousness and a dull, tired state,
there s surely something wrong. Likely it’s kidney
weakness. Urinary disorders may give further proof.
Don’t neglect it! Though easily corrected at first, delay
may run you into gravel, dropsy, crippling rheumatism or
dangerous Bright’s disease. Get a bottle of Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills to-day. They have helped thousands.
SYDNEY TESTIMONY.
LASTING CURE OF TWO YEARS.
Mrs. H. McAuliffe. 392 New Canterbury-road,
Dulwich Hill, Sydney, says:— “For a good while
I was almost crippled with backache, the ailment
being caused by the improper action of my kidneys.
Other symptoms present, clearly showing these
organs were in a bad way, were a constant tired-
ness, dropsical swellings and disordered secretions.
My back was very painful, and I used to feel so
bad at times that I dare not move, and had to
lie up ; it was the only way I got a little relief.
At night my rest was broken, and during the day
I felt tired and worn out. At last I decided to
take a course of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills,
and as they cured me I am only too pleased to
pass the word on to other sufferers. Seven bottles
of these pills banished my health troubles, and
I now feel Al.”
Two years later Mrs. McAuliffe says“My
cure still holds good, no sign of kidney trouble
having returned since I took Doan’s ‘Backache
Kidney Pills some years ago.”
LASTING CURE OF NINE YEARS.
Mr. William Carroll, sen., ex-railway guard, 74!)
Harris-street, Pyrmont, Sydney, says“ Some
time ago I strained myself pushing some heavy
trucks, and soon noticed the effect in the small of
my back. For three solid months I was unable
to work and I was laid un. I had a very lame
back and a dull pain through the loins and the
kidneys, and my secretions became unnatural and
irregular. I consulted a doctor, who recom-
mended Turkish baths, but though I got a little
ease I could not work. I used Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills, and obtained wonderful relief. I
am so much better that I can now do heavy work,
I am fully convinced that Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills are a true kidney remedy, and I never fail
to recommend them among my friends.”
Nineteen years later Mrs. Carroll confirms the
above:—“My husband has been free of backache
and urinary trouble since Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills cured him nineteen years ago. His cure
proves that this remedy is a thoroughly good one.” j
"Every Picture
Tells a Story .
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by all
chemists and storekeepers at 2/9 per bottle, or post
free by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Backache
Kidney
“Now, Bill, tell me this. What do you
think of the Australian soldiers?”
I thought he’d have bust, but he didn’t.
Ses ’e : ‘‘German language won’t do. I’ll say
it in Russian.”
’E couldn’t spell it, so 1 didn’t write if;
but it sounded like a crosscut-saw running
through a bit of ironbark. “Ach,” ’e fin-
ished, “they’re not soldiers. Why, they
laugh when they’re dying.”
Ses I : “Well, Bill, what yer going to do
for a crust now?”
Ses ’e: “I dunno. I’m out of the king
business, I suppose, for good. I’m a bit full
up of the missus and the kids. She’s always
nagging at me for losing my job. To tell the
blooming truth, I’d like to do a break.”
Ses I: “If I p U t you wise, what’s it
worth ?”
Ses ’e: “I’ll give you ton Iron Crosses
first class.
“Well,” ses I, “camelfiag yourself and
walk out.”
Ses ’e: “ ’Ow’ll I do it?”
I took out a pair of wire-snippers from my
pocket and cut off the mustarsh. Lumme,
you should just have seen what a loony old
dial he liad with them off. Billy Young gave
me a quid for them for sooveneers. “Now,
« ai ?? e coat:s ’” ses I < and I quickly stripped
off his coat and shoved my blue butcher’s-
coat on him and the cap.
Ses ’e: “ ’Arf a mo, cocky. There’s some-
thing in the pockets of that coat.”
“So there is in mine,” ses I; “but ex-
change ain’t no robbery.”
’E pulled out arf a raw carrot from the
pocket. I pushed ’im along.
“Fade away, Bill. I don’t want no re-
ward. Not even them Iron Crosses. Fade
away while you got the charnce.”
“Good guts in himmel,” ses ’e, or some-
thing like that, and ’e faded away to the
carl
Ten minutes afterwards I gets over to the
wall and watches George Holden go by doin’
sentry-go. As soon as he’d passed I hops
over with the coat-full of quids and gets
back to the billet. Later on, I meets the
Golonel, and e grins at me and ses: “ ’Ow’s
, e potty dam.” (That’s French for “nice
girl. ) And I grins and ses, “Tray bong,”
which means “rybuck.”
Four months' after —that’s last week I
was mooching down Bourke-street when I
sees Bill in a nice natty uniform and clean-
shaved. E was singing out •
in Up <L Wa | k ! The finest picter
n the city. ‘The Bloodthirsty Brute of Ber-
lin, a moving, thrilling drama! And Charlie
Chaplin m his funniest comedy. Seats 6d.
and 3d. W alk m ! Don’t wait.”
As I passed ihim I whispers:
“This is better than the old cliatto.”
“w ip ° a , th i ! ” ,f os e ’ an( l then went on:
Walk up! Walk up! Seats 6d. and 3d.”
, , There y are! Of course, the papers all say
e s a prisoner in ’Olland; but don’t you
b iieve it ! That’s what the French call
camelfiag! Bah! If you don’t b’lieve me
you can see him down in town at the picter-
show. Look out, blokes, there’s the sun
coming up. u
N. F. S.
Robbery.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
LITTLE Antony strained and swore.
Wheeling heavy pigs of copper on a
pair of curved handles pivoted on a
four-inch iron wheel was hard work for a big
man. For Antony’s nine-stone-six it was
slavery, pure slavery. When Antony’s
shift followed the one which had tapped the
big No. 1 he always swore an oath to give
up smelting and take an easier job. Boun-
dary riding maybe, or even shearing. The
latter was hard on the back, but paradise
compared with tugging at a refractory
barrow that would persist in getting oil the
narrow track.
To-day Antony was sorer than usual.
He swore with an increased vehemence. It
wasn’t the changing of shifts and the com-
paratively short eight hours off before turn-
ing-to again, in which a man had to wash,
eat and sleep, and wash and eat again and
pack his crib. He had done that too often
for it to arouse more than a passing interest.
It was something worse than that. Some-
thing against which his whole being revolted.
Had anyone suggested twenty-four hours
previously that such a calamity could over-
take him, he would have laughed the idea to
scorn. It would have been too ridiculous
to contemplate. His small capacity for
interest in matters outside his - own immedi-
ate sphere had not prepared him for the
commonplace. And now it had happened,
as it were, with a suddenness that had left
him in the air.
To get a really true perspective of
Antony’s distress, it is necessary to go back
to a dark stormy night about six months
previously.
The furnaces were perched on top of the
highest peak in a landscape full of peaks.
The little town lay hidden under a pitch-
black pall in the valley below, and since the
last member of the afternoon shift had dis-
appeared round the bend in the road, swing-
ing. his hurricane lamp, not a glimmer of
light had been seen in that direction. The
ram beat down with an incessant tattoo on
the tin roof of the shed, easing only when
the fury of the wind shrieking through the
timbers supporting the roof drowned all
other sounds. A low black cloud hung just
above the chimney stacks, and, whenever a
firebox was opened and long tongues of flame
leaped and darted upwards, reflected them
on to the surrounding gloom.
It was a night that would try the temper
of the most experienced furnace captain, and
because Antony was the mate, and naturally
to blame for the weather and the seeming
preponderance of wet green wood over dry,
and the dull red glow over the bridge of the
furnace instead of a white glare, he had to
bear the burden of his own and part of the
cantain’s temper.
Temper was at the bottom of all the
happenings of that night; had it not been
for temper, Antony and the Porpoise would
have finished their shift the best of friends
instead of the most deadly enemies..
The only warm place outside the furnace
was at the slab of suspended firebricks
which did service for the door of the firebox.
Certainly it was warm down in the grate,
hut the live coals which were continually
dropping didn’t tend to make the grate a
comfortable retreat.
There were no electric lights—-only oil
flares, which had to be filled and re-wicked
every shift. They were dirty and ill-con-
ditioned affairs at best. The row started
with those lamps. Antony, choosing from
half a dozen empty ones, had picked the
best, refilled it, and twisted a new wick into
it. Hardly had he set it on top of the
furnace and commenced warming himself
than the Porpoise espied it.
“Ha!” he said, “so you’ve pinched my
lamp.”
“Pinched nothing,” said Antony. “The
lamp belongs to the company.”
“That’s the one I use, anyway,” said the
Porpoise.
“Well,” replied Antony, measuring the
Porpoise with the corner of his eye, "I’ve
just filled it and put a new wick into it;
you go and do the same with one of the
others and I’ll swap.”
Had the Porpoise weighed nine stone in-
stead of turning the scale at fourteen he
would have seen the fairness of the proposi-
tion, and all would have been well. Instead
of that, he made a move as if to take the
lamp.
Now it was Antony’s turn. “You take
that lamp,” he said, “and you take a bit of
me.”
That was a challenge. As pure a chal-
lenge as you could give a man. It was like
a cocker-spaniel standing up to the mass of
a bulldog.
lor a moment the onlookers were
astounded. They thought Antony had taken
leave *tf his senses, and they were not far
wrong. Had Antony not been in a temper
he would have thought of the difference in
weights and decided on another course.
( The Porpoise was the first to recover.
Did you mean that for me?” he queried.
Like all small men. Antony had pride,
gallons of it; so he stuck to his guns. To
make up for his deficient personality lie did
the same as thousands of small men had
done before him: he raised his shrill voice
a key higher: “I said that if you take that
damned lamp, you take a bit of me !”
The fellows on the No. 2 were just com-
mencing to null off a couple of pots of slag.
With the front door down, the glowing metal
threw just enough light clear of the toilers
for two such determined men as Antony and
the Porpoise to see what they were doing.
There were no preliminaries. Round ami
round they whirled like a pair of gamecocks.
At least Antony did the whirling; the Por-
poise somehow didn’t seem quick enough to
catch him.
Now, according to all laws, Antony should
have exhausted the Porpoise and then
knocked him. But what did happen was
this. Antony was doing a kind of Highland
fling over a set of ravels, when something
that felt like a ton of bricks hit him in the
chest. This sent him trotting backwards
until he pulled up against a post. Then
somebody shouted “Shift-boss !” and that
was the end of it, except that when they got
back to the furnace the disputed lamp was
missing.
Such a farcical climax one might think
would put an end to what was meant by the
principals to be a tragedy. But not so
with Antony. He had a thirst —a thirst
lor revenge that only grew the stronger as\
die months went by. How to assuage that
thirst he had no idea, but he knew that if it
came to a physical tussle he would have to
be much stronger if he wanted to land out
on top. Henceforward he was the most
willing furnace mate of the three shifts,
except when it came to wheeling metal.
Something in his small brain told him that
the latter job added nothing to his physical
prowess. It only racked him, body and soul
—threatened to tear his arms from the shoitl-
de.rs, jar his hands and weaken his ankles, if
not absolutely ruin them. Otherwise he
was the best of mates. No matter how
many logs had to be double-banked to pitch
them into the firebox, he was always willing
At the ravel during cleaning he made
new records for endurance. And he could
always stay on top, when, dropping a charge,
longer than other men. He took a lion's
share at the hammer when tapping, and he
was always readv with the clay to stop he,r
up again.
Antony didn’t reach this stage of perfec-
tion in a week or two. It took him maty
months of laborious, dogged work. Many a
shift he finished racked with pain, and the
half-formed idea of throwing the whole thing
over troubled him more than once. In those
days the lamp incident was indeed a beam of
light on a dark horizon, and the thought of
the long-awaited revenge acted as a spur to
his tired endeavor.
Constant concentration upon the attain-
ment of physical perfection had long since
determined the course of Antony’s revenge,
and he worked out the details of the physical
tussle between himself and the Porpoise with
the consummate cunning of semi-insanity.
Antony was beginning to realise that the
fruits of his revenge were nearly ready for
the picking when the calamity happened. It
left him stranded as a big fish in a tiny pool.
All his past endeavors were to go for noth-
ing. His exercise of patience and perse-
verance was to bring him no reward. His
extra labor was in vain. Not for a moment
did he think that if he followed the Porpoise
with the same diligence as he had pursued
his revenge, lie would get his reward. All
he knew was that he had been robbed—
robbed of the revenge for which he had
worked so assiduously for many months;
robbed by a commonplace so simple that he
had never given it a moment’s thought. And
that was why Antony swore with an iu-
creased vehemence as he tugged and strained
at the heavy slabs of matte. And that was
why he was sorer than usual.
A man had left the town by coach that
morning, and that man was the Porpoise.
THION.


K
53
1
; ' ■■
«
It'
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE GO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents- HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—96 Queen Street, Melbourne.
emingtoii
* s
Wi
THE fascination of
field shooting is due to
the uncertainty of getting the
game. The interest in
ability to reduce those uncertainties to the mini-
mum. A well trained dog, a good gun and
cartridges are the necessary elements,
Produced by experienced makers and re-
cognized everywhere by keen sportsmen,
as of unsurpassed quality, Remington
UMC cartridges will help you to com-
bine the elements which make a good
shot and which bring home
the full bag.
Catalogue postpaid
upon request.
;
REMINGTON ARMS UMC COMPANY
B, Is. BRYJUfT. Aufnfiaa RefresentAtm, Box 686, G, P. 0., Melbonnio
“I’ve Struck It—
The Real Thing in Razors. Gets through the job
in a quarter the time, and makes the business a
pleasure. The ‘PLUM’S’ the Razor for me.”
THE "PLUM" RAZOR.
PRICE IO C, POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
The above makes a handsome present.
All the above Post .Free. Send for our Illustrated Price List
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
Tried and Trusted—
The “PLUM”
Razor.
OSTER
V_x MATCHLESS
Screwing TacKle
Unequalled for easy Tube-screwing.
A newly-improved line of tools, never before equalled or offered to
the public. Entirely self-contained, with no loose parts. All leader-
screw troubles are eliminated by our patented chip shield.
Oster Matchless Screwing Tackle is made in four sizes, and will
screw tubes from % in. to 4in. Two sizes (lin. to 2in., and 2% in.
to 4in.) have a ratchet attachment.
Easy to adjust, easy
to start, and easy to
pull, it takes the un-
necessary work out
of screwing. Get a
Matchless from your
nearest dealer.
Carried in stock,
with extra parts,
by ironmongers,
machinery and
hardware S plumb-
ing supply houses.
The Oster Manufacturing Co.,
Cleveland, Ohio , U.S.A.
Australasian Representative—
CHARLES WRIGHT, Turner Chambers, 16 Hunter St., Sydney
- /-• ■ **
The jVUdiciw for You
must possess certain advantages without which it would hardly commend
itself to your confidence. It must be perfectly safe under all circumstances.
It must be mild in its action but none the less efficacious on that account.
It must be, par excellence, a family medicine, that is, suitable for
old and young of both sexes and be freely obtainable in town or
country. It must be easy to take, regular and reliable in its curative
effects and possess a great and genuine record of success. Such a
medicine is Beecham’s Pills which still hold, and will continue to hold,
the highest position in popular favour. It is very interesting, after so
many years service, still to find Beecham’s Pills “at the top of the
tree ” among digestive remedies. They ar.' everywhere acknowledged
to be unrivalled in the treatment of such troubles as biliousness, sick
headache, heartburn, constipation, giddiness, failing appetite, poorness
of blood and a general run-down condition. If you are in any way a
sufferer from digestive ailments take
flwltam’s fill;
BEECHAM’S PILLS arc specially suitable for females o! all ages*
Sold in boxes, labelled price IOJd (36 pills), 1/1 £ ( 56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills
n are you n
RUPTURED
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Ho you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW: it is.
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a CENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL.
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St,., Melbourne. Vie.
MORPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
Of Internal and Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/3 per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1391.
Try This: Two
Generations Old
And never failed yet to keep the bowels
regular, the temper smooth, the liver active, the
appetite vigorous and
The recipe is:
"Keep Carter’s Little
Liver Pills where you
know where to find them
and don’t wait to be
bilious. They’re
a pleasure to
take.’’ Children
prefer them.
Purely
vegetable.
CARTERS
M
R
Small Pill
Small Dosa—Small Price.
GENUINE must bear signature
GIBSON’S
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide.
High-clasS Residential Hotel.
Tariff: 15/- per day inclusive.
8/= per day Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
Watermans
Ideal
ON
ACTIVE
SERVICE
luiiiiiinminnniiiiniiiiuiiiiiii'^in
W v > . v
<l.-1 I.IPV
► \*x-
A Lieutenant writes:—
"B.M.E. Forces.
“Will you send me one of your ‘ Safety’
pattern Waterman’s Ideal Pens ? The
variety I want is the short and fat shape
with a medium pointed hard nib.
“ This is the third pen of your make
that I have had. I have lost the other
two unfortunately, and I find that I can-
not do without my Waterman’s so
lam ordering another. I have tried
many other makes, but none to touch
yours. You are at liberty to use these
remarks as you like. They are entirely
unsolicited, but please suppress name.’’
types: “ Lever Pocket Self-
“ Safety,” “Regular.”
r Stationers and Jewellers
everywhere.
L. G. Sic an, Ltd.
Z\)qT#zxl Comer
London, England
Australia: Harold D. Dixon, 105 Clarence St., Sydney
((-
Wire Strainer
each
" Post Free
in Use.
( Patented )
*«*
10/-
each
Post Free
With Full Particulars
and Illustrated Circular.
6
The simplicity, lightness and excellence of the
Dreadnought is fully maintained.
Titan Manufacturing Company,
Normanby Road, SOUTH MELBOURNE.


Mangrovtte*’
LEATHER
■pm
THE MAXIMUM POWER
TRANSMITTER
gets the maximum profits. Mangrovite Raw
Hide Belting is unequalled for difficult drives.
It always grips—never slips. Consult us
about your transmission problems and get
the benefit of our long experience.
Mangrovite Belting' Ltd.
(Successors to Charles Ludowioi),
49 Wynyard Square (near C. P. o.),Sydney,N.S.W.
Western Australia: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Perth
S’th Australia: John Reid & Sons Ltd., Adelaide
The Eagle 8 Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
379 Kent Street,
Sydney.
264 Latrobe Street. Melbourne; Kalgoorlie and Fremantle, W.A.
Charles AtUins & Co., Adelaide. Paul & Gray Ltd., Newcastle.
f John Reid & Nephews, Brisbane.
KNIVES FOR
WOODWORKING MACHINES
■PI r;“
»jpip
strac
Lu C fr
HIGH-QUALITY STEEL-CUTTING EDGES, with Iron Backs, made to your order
from our own material.
When ordering state size on cut, depth, thickness, length and width of slots;
whether for Fixed Heads or Movable Bolts. If Fixed Heads Template absolutely
necessary.
Minimising Friction
Every rotating part moves, pulls,
thrusts, resists—the less friction the
greater power.
Dick’s Balata Belting
(Original and Genuine)
reduces friction to the vanishing
point. Bears greatest Toads with
smoothest ease.
Ask us for full particulars.
JAMES HARD XE. h CO. LTD.,
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. Wynyard & York Sts., SYDNEY,
Phone 8456 (4 lines).
581-3 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Also at Brisbane and Adelaide.
Newcastle Agents—Paul & Cray Ltd.
f i
ig of Carburetors —-
THE FAMOUS
A potentate that wields a sceptre over a wide area of the Automobile World. Nearly 20 years ago this product
of the Indianapolis Factory made the Marine Motor World herald the word “SCHEBLEB” far and wide. Its original con-
struction and absolute RELIABILITY and ECONOMY under all weather conditions easily placed it a decade ahead of its
competitors. Since then the designing brains of the SCHEBEER Laboratories have exploited the
AUTOMOBILE. AUTOCYCLE and AERONAUTICAL
fields, with the result that the name. “SCHEBJiEE.” is everywhere recognised as a leader in scientific carburetion. Sceptics
would do well to remember the high place this Famous Carburetor took in the field of war. ,
It was standard equipment on the Curtis Flying: Machines &nd Flying: l^oats.
The U.S.A. Government used “SCHEBLERS” on their Army Cars., Trucks., Motor-Cycles and Patrol Boats
peace %he “SCHEBLER" is
The AMERICAN GOLD CUP—the Blue Riband Championship for Motor Boats —has been won every year
since its inception by a SCHEBBER-equipped boat.
The “SCHEBBER” has won innumerable Automobile Road and Track RaeeSj and World’s Records.
It is practically the culy equipment for all American Motor Cycles.
With such proof of CARBURETOR REBIABIBITY and QBAEITY. can we do any less than CONST-
DEKTBY RECOMMEND THE “SCHEBBER” for any purpose you want a Carburetor for? Biterature
and ABB information gladly furnished.
Sole Agents
for N.S.W.
ROBT. C. SWAN 8 CO. LT
“STAR” Portable Lampless Oil Engines.
These Big-powered Engines are now becoming immensely popular for general Farm and Station work, such as
Woodcutting, Shearing, Chaffcutting, Pumping, etc., and each Engine supplied by us means another well-satisfied
client.
The Price is exceptionally Low for a Portable Engine, viz..
6%-b.h.p. ..
8-b.h.p
10-b.h.p
£176
£205
£235
Including
Expert
to start.
We can arrange easy Terms, and guarantee satisfaction in every instance.
—
DALGETY (Si CO. LTD., Miller’s Point,
YDNEY.
Sags
Agents for TANCYES, CLAYTON & SHUTTLEWORTH, WOLSELEY Shearing Machines, TRIUMPH Oil Engines, CANE Milking Machines, etc
THE
Sheep-shearing Machines.
m
o •;
Your handpieces MUST be adjusted and repaired for the next season— for
best results. Send them in NOW. Our special machinery for the
purpose ensures satisfaction.
Australasian Agents: All Branches.
The simplicity, facility for easy transport, and relative cheapness of these little Hoists
commend them to the Miner requiring a small, efficient Winding Plant. Designed principally
for Mining purposes, it will raise a bucket with 500-70Clb. sixty to seventy feet per minute.
The Hoisting Drum is absolutely under the control of the man at the shaft, and can be thrown
in and out of gear, and he can land or lower the bucket on the brake as safely and conveniently
as by a steam-power hoist. An automatic safety device is attached to the end of the drum to
prevent accident, the dog always being in gear when the bucket is being raised.
Drum carries 500 feet or more of % Steel Wire Rope.
Total Shipping weight is 12001 b., but no one piece weighs over 2501 b.
If you are interested, allow us to send you full descriptive Circular, with Price*,
v >
irs and Machinery Merchants,
60 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
iS
: s»
FORGE BRAND.
Guaranteed Equal to Shovels of Best English Make.
Support the Industries of your own country.
Increase Local Employment. Keep the Money in Australia.
TOOL & SHOVEL FORGE LTD., a Sydney company, have erected works equipped with special machinery and appliances
lor the manufacture of Shovels, Spades, Forks, Picks, Hammers and Tools of all kinds, the quality of which is guaranteed
to compare favorably with any similar articles produced abroad.
AUSTRALIAN throughout, including all Material. Manufactured by Union labor.
Ask for FORGE Brand, and don’t allow any other brand to be thrust on you.
EXCLUSIVE SALES AGENTS
LTD., Equitable
WHERE SAMPLES MAY BE SEEN.
Building, 350 GEORGE STREET,
SPECIAL TERMS TO INTER-STATE BUYERS.
SYDNEY,
