

DEWAR 3 S —The Spirit of Contentment,
Machinery Merchants}
treet,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available. __
S *
as &
1 1
mmmmiimim
N S W- MONT de PIETE D & I C9T LIMITED,
74 SL., 74. Sydney.
-ADVANCES-
lON ALL CLASSES
I OF SECURITY
IWITHOUT POSSESSION
fofldejjt 2lS*l7Swanslon Stjlelb.. 40 Adelaide St, Brisbane:
29 King St,Newcastle. 186 Castlereagh St.,s 159 George StJWest, Sydney.
‘ .'J rrj.i'rjy
000 OOZS TVXIJVD
‘Phone City 932s .
*'•««///////
s &
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not be laid at the doors
ol the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete D. and I. Co. Ltd.”
A
WARATAH,
Fencim Wire
Fencing Wire
Ahead of all imported wires for
strength and lasting qualities, yet
costs less.
“WARATAH” FENCING WIRE, from
the Ore to the Fence Australian, is
guaranteed by the makers. Look
for the tag.
Order “Waratah” from your store-
keeper. We do not take orders for
direct supplies.
Send for Fencing Book Nl9. Free
on request.
Austral Nail Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Ferrars Street, South Melbourne, Vlo.
rPttM
Argue 5 ? 4 **
9
pPLE
a
a
Nothing
to Argue
ABOUTi
'"«pr
Are the Best
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organ*.
TABLETS
P ., INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
Wolfe’s
Schnapps
m
m
m
I
■
i
i
m
M
m
i
■
Improves and preserves
IRON ROOFS
and all metal surfaces .
Avoid renewals and give a better appearance to your
iron roofs and metal surfaces by coating them with
PABCO Paint. Pabco gives best possible results.
Use it.
Illustrated booklet and full particulars from
The Paraffine Paint Companies Ine. (F. M. Prince,
Australasian Manager), Challis House, Sydney.
MM
s
a
i
:s
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS.
Railway Rolling Stock of all Descriptions .
£-4 •L'liinyiim l !Kkyhm.m >•**:•* fcy/j 'lfUiitf-l
LD GRANVILLE,
N.S.W.
Portable Steam Engines.
Sugar Mill Machinery. Heavy Iron & Malleable Castings . Cast-iron Porcelain-Enamelled Baths, Sinks, etc.
Arthur
Head Office,
SYDNEY.
e a
MACHINERY.
Build "Leplastriers” Long-lasting,
Modern, Machinery-made Roads.
ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH
Famous Brands of
HIGH-SPEED STEEL & DRILLS
“A.W.»» “T.Y.R.” “A.W. PREMIER."
MANUFACTURED by
Sir W. Q. ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH & CO. LTD.
Manchester, England.
Sole Australian Representatives:
Gilbert Lodge 8 Co. Ltd.,
115 PUT STREET, SYDNEY.
506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
LARGE STOCKS CARRIED.
PLEASANT AND
A TRUE. ANTISEPTIC—
•xsaa s.vnv’axstiv
3±S¥d HJLOOX
The Bulletin
V01.40.—N0. 2054.]
[Thursday, June 26, 1919.
PRICE 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, lor Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Hi
sill
■a %
m
“Think Beyond Your Job!”
DO YOU THINK
ARE YOU SATISFIED
OF INCREASED SALARY, OF
BETTER POSITIONS, OF PROGRESS?
TO REMAIN AS YOU ARE NOW,
TO REFRAIN FROM ADVANCEMENT?
Most leaders of men have risen from the ranks. They have been men who have
thought beyond their job. Many leaders, experts and thinkers to-day have utilised
I.C.S. Instruction to help make progress. They used normal brains plus I.C.S.
Special Training. So can you. You can do it in your spare time with I.C.S. Instruc-
tion papers.
THERE ARE 37,000 I.C.S. STUDENTS IST AUSTRALIA. Over. 3.100,000 throughout
-the World.
~ International Correspondence Schools
(The World’s Schoolhouse)
LONDON, SCRANTON, PARIS, NEW YORK.
183 Pitt St., Sydney; 79 Swanston St., Melbourne.
What Position Do You Want?
Information supplied without obligation
to enquirers and a Free Booklet posted.
. .Advertisement Writer
. . Agriculturist
..Architect
.. Artificer
..Accountant (prelim.)
.. Boilermaker
.. Book-keeper
.. Bridge Engineer
.. Builder
..Chauffeur
.. Chemist
. .Carpenter
..Carriage Builder
..Civil Engineer
..Clerk of Works
. .Coke-oven Manager
. .Concrete Engineer
, .Die-maker
. .Draughtsman
.. Dynamo Attendant
. .Electrical Engineer
. .Electrician
. .Engine Driver
, .Fireman
.. Furniture-maker
.. Gas-power Engineer
.. General Education
. .Illustrator
. .Livestock Breeder
.. Mathematician
. .Marine Engineer
. .Mechanical Engineer
. . Metallurgist
. .Metal Prospector
.M ino Electrician
Mine Foreman
Mine Manager
Mine Surveyor '
.Motor-body Builder
Motor Engineer
Motor Mechanic
Moulder
Municipal Engineer
Navigator
Patternmaker
Plumber
Poultry Farmer
Publicity Manager
Quantity Surveyor
'Railway Engineer
Refrigeration Engineer
. . Salesman
. .Secretary
.'. Sheet-metal Worker
. . Shorthand-Typist
. . Show-eard Writer
. . Sign Painter
. . Smelter
. .Steam Engineer
. . Structural Engineer
. .Surveyor
. .Telegraph Engineer
.. Telephone Engineer
. .Templater
. . Toolmaker
. .Window Dresser
. .Wireless Expert
. .Woollen Worker
. .Works Engineer
Foreign Languages—-French, Italian, '-Spanish, German, by Phonograph.
KINDLY
NAME
r~xi
....
CHARM OF MANNER
may be enhanced by beauty of the face. A'
touch of SWAN DOWN gives just' that
delicacy and purity to the complexion which/
being scarcely perceptible, is admired thcftaore.
TETLOW’S
or/;
•ms
m
m
FACE POWDER
Imparts a delicate bloom to
the eompfexion. So 'Pars that
it wi/Inot barm the most
delicate Shin. >
™Qld, per
PRICE 2 b^x
In Five Tints:
White. Cream, Pink.
Flesh an.d Brunette.
OFStores. Chemists
First C/ass Drapery Houses
& Perfumers everywhere.
Cs/
Wholesale Disfribuiinft Agenls:-
Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., LTD.,
Sydney.
Messrs. WASHINGTON H. SOUL,
„ PATTINSON & CO., Sydney.
'Messrs. ANTHONY HORDERN AND
SONS LTD., Sydney.
THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.,
Sydney.
LONDON WHOLESALE AGENTS:-’ i,
Henn?C. Quelch & Co. 4 & 5. Ludsatc Sq„ London, E.C.
For
A Clear Complexion
Constipation disfigures the com*
plexion with pimples and blotches*
Poisonous matter which should have
been expelled from the system is
retained and gives rise to impurities
in the blood.
Pinkettes quickly clear away all
offending matter without the least
griping or discomfort. They are a
corrective for bad breath, will clear
the complexion, and are recom-
mended for torpid liver, biliousness,
headaches, constipation, and when-
ever a gentle laxative is required.
1/- per bottle at all dealers.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “The Bulletin.'
The Dr. Williams! Medicine Co.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W
A LL AUSTRALIANS yisitkig London
J&. should read the Durnsu Ausxjjal-
asiaN, Ud. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
rralia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the I’hitish Austsalasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High llol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use ths
telephone, and obtain information without
Hudson’s “Eumenthol Jujubes”
Colds, Soro Throats and
the Prevention of Consumption.
A. The Larynx or
Onran of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe. .
S 3
: :
0. Tha Bronchial
Tubes of a Dis-
sected Lung.
I). The Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
CAUTION.—The large sale for Eumenth*!
Jujubes r has led to a number of imitations
being manufactured under the name of
menthol and other jujubes. It is important,
therefore, when buying to be sure and get
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes. You may
bo asked to buy other jujubes, and be told
they are “just as good” as Hudson’s Eumen-
thol Jujubes. This proves that these imita-
tions and substitutes have no reputation of
their own, and can only be sold on the good
repute and high character of Hudson’s
Eumenthol Jujubes.
SOLD BY CHEMISTS.
! 9/J SKU
The Red Page
An American View
William Lyon Phelps is Lampson Pro-
fessor of English Literature at Yale, and
his book, The Advance of English Poetry in
the Twentieth Century (Dodd, Mead and
Co., New- York), is mainly interesting f&r
the fact that it reveals the present American
attitude to verse and versemakers. At the
opening of the book he makes the state-
ment -
Let us devoutly thank '-God that poetry has come
into its own; that the modern poet, in public estima-
tion, is a' Hero that no one, has to apologise either,
for reading or for writing verse. An age that loves
poetry with the passion characteristic of the twen-
tieth century is not a-flat or materialistic age. We
are not disobedient utoto the heavenly vision.
Now this is very strange; for while we knew
that the lap-dog poetaster w r as allowed to eat
at rich men’s tallies in the high places of
the United States,, none of us. in Australia
- had been led to bffiieve' that WiTsonffi coun-
try was really hungering and thirsting for
the inspiration of song. The magazines
from New York do not indicate it; the oc-
casional verses in the daily papers hint at
nothing of the kind; the little books of
that find their way, across the Pacific
are not impressive, nor have we heard of
any of them as best-sellers.
That Australia has a large verse-consump-
tion is a fact evident even to the
man ; but this Yale professor knows nothing
at all about us. Here is wliat he says of
Australian song : —-
No one doubts Mr. Service’s accuracy and sin-
cerity. But manj' men have had abundance of
material, rich and new; only to find it unmanageable.
Bret Harte, Mark Twain. Rudyard Kipling succeeded
where thousands have failed. Think of the possibili-
ties of Australia ! And from that vast, region only
one great artist has spoken—Percy Grainger.
Poor Henry Lawson! Poor Daley ! Poor
found dozen of others! What a slow and
Sorrowful business is the growth of fame!
Or should it be poor Professor Phelps, deaf-
ened by the roar of New York to the very
real singing of two generations of Aus-
tralians?
This American book is very rich in quota-
tion ; but the examples given of work done
in the United States are in the main very
poor by comparison with selections which
could be made from Australian twentieih-
cenlury verse. Tim country of these singers
is in a sense new —almost as new as our own
—but the verse is not new. Sometimes it
it not verse at all; but where it adheres
to any singing form it has generally a shop-
worn look. A notable 1 exception is Vaehel
Lindsay, who is a sort of ragtime poet with
a really fine eye for color. Take a sample
from “The. Congo” r
Fat black bucks in a wine-barrel room,
Barrel-house kings, with feet unstable,
Sagged nnd reeled and pounded on the table,
Pounded on the''table,
Beat an empty barrel with the handle of a broom,
Hard as they were able,
Boom, boom. Boom.
With a silk umbrella and the handle of a broom,
Boomlay, boomlay', boomlay, Boom.
Then I had religion, then I had a vision,
1 could not turn from their revel in derision.
Then I saw the Congo creeping through the blade,
Cutting through the forest with a golden track,
Then along the river bank
i A thousand miles
Tattooed eapitibals .danced in files ;,
Then I heard the boom of a blood-lust song
And a thigh-bone beating on a tin-pan gong....
A negro fairyland swung into view,
A minStrel 'river
Where dr earns come true.'
Just then from the doorway, as fat as shotes,
Canie the cake-walk princes in their long red coats,
Canes with a brilliant lacquer shine
And tall silk-hats that were red as wine.
Professor Phelps culls this poetry; and
perhaps he is right. It is certainly very sug-
gestive, in its movement, of America. In
fact; while Vaehel Lindsay saw the Congo
in the group of drunken niggers, most read-
ers outside the United States will find the
soul of New York in- the verses be wrote
about them. Possibly if the great American
poet rose just now he would find his true
medium of expression in ragtime.
There are amusing words in Professor
Phelps’s volume, as when he calls Francis
Thompson a “gutter-snipe,” and when he
rejoices over the fact that “many poets are
reciting their poems to big, eager, enthusi-
astic audiences and the atmosphere is
charged with the melodies of übiquitous min-
strelsy” ; but, after all, lie has a catholic
hope When he writes: —
We need original, writers in America : but I had
rather have a star of the first magnitude appear in
London than a star of lesser power appear in LO3
Angeles.
That is a very excellent sentiment; but a
*till better would be the one which got rid
- of the idea of big and little altogether and
thanked God for a pure and clear light of
any sort.
The Tiger
No man was ever more like his picture
than Clemenceau. There is so much
character in the old man’s face that even
the most casual camera can’t miss all of it.
He will be 78 on Sept. 28. He was 75
when, Government after Government having
failed to give France confidence that it
would win. he took hold, and made the vic-
tory of the Allies possible. Perhaps some-
body else might have done it. Bat nobody
knows who he is, and there was precious
little time ’o find him.
We don’t know—perhaps never shall know
—how close we were to at least a patched
peace. Little that was written, or, at any
rate, published, during the war will help us
to a judgment. War is the enemy of nothing
more than of truth; and history would be
Well served if all that was published during,
the Great War, and especially the earlier
twrPthirds of it, was gathered up and
burned. It was not merely that the enemy
was not to be given information of naval or
military value. The people at home and
abroad were to be deceived: the former had
to be heartened, the latter disheartened,
by suppressions and distortions. Allies had
to be flattered, cajoled. No wonder, know-
ing bow infamous some of the instructions
would have sounded after the tumult had
diod down, the Australian Defence Depart-
ment —which in this matter was probably
neither much better nor much worse than
others, though it was certainly less intelli-
gent—a while ago sought to recover from
newspapers all the instructions it had there-
tofore issued! X,
Clemenceau suffered with the rest. Trained
to'medicine, he had to be a journalist. There
• are French newspapers; but France has
many publications of a bias? of which
Britain and Australia have hhx-dly any at
all—papers whose message is everything.
Clemenceau had a message. He began
with the Tbavail in 1862 and wrote for many
others ; but ih nobody else’s paper could he
be so free as in his own, wherefore, in J.BBO,
he founded La Justice, and it lasted IT
years. Then he went for a while to
L’Aurobe, and again found that no paper but
his own could satisfy him. So Le Bloc
was created. It lived for a whole year;
then, having to go electioneering, Clemen-
ceau dropped it. It had been his voice, and
he asked nobody to be a mere phonograph.
After that it was Aurore again—this time,
however, as editor. But Senate duties in-
terfered and he retired, only to reflect on the
number of things that needed saying. He
was getting old, too: he was now 72; he
must hurry—it must be a daily voice this
time. So L’llomme Libre came out in
May, 1913, with this message:—
It is inconceivable that the French people, to
whom any idea of provocation is completely foreign,
should hesitate to .make in her own defence analo-
gous, if not equal,' sacrifices to those so easily
obtained in our neighboring Empire by a policy,which
rouses only too justly in this country and elsewhere
fears of aggression. The nation has the right to
demand that science, which has hitherto been so
often at fault, should he able to extract the maximum
of efficiency from the people's virile efforts. The
obligation to provide for the necessities of the armed
peace which Germany forces upon us entails an in-
crease of {industrial no less than military] effectives.
Of course Clemenceau was soon in trouble
with the Censor. He simply had to tell
the truth as he saw it. His paper wasn’t
his bread and butter: it was the call of his
soul to France, his lover. He believed she
Avas in neril: how could he tell her that all
was going well? He did not try. He
threw the responsibility on the Censor; and
the Censor, knowing, perhaps, how useless
it was to attempt to keep the Free Man
in bonds, suspended it “I
bow,” said Clemenceau, “but to-morrow I
will publish another paper.” And so he
did, and stingingly called it L’Homme
Enchaine (The Bond Man). There is
surely no more overwhelming criticism of
the earlier conduct of the war than that a
man whose mouth was gagged in September,
1914, was three years later, after the
nation had passed through awful vicissitudes,
Called on to rally the crushed, bleeding,
dispirited people; and that, rallying them,
he made victory possible.
| How was it done? What had Clemenceau
that the others lacked? Above all, no doubt,
absolute devotion to France. A little less
than a year after he had taken over the
Government a party of Australian editors,
with Lord Derby, the British Minister in
Paris, met him. The Australians had just
been doing almost miraculous things in the
field. Two months before they had saved
Amiens. Two or three days before they had
gained Mont St. Quentin, a military feat so
remarkable that the voice of General Rawlin-
son quavered as he spoke of the cost of it.
Clemenceau talked of the valor of the Aus-
tralians ; he paid his tribute to all the Allies,
“first among whom I take leave,” lie con-
eluded, “to put my own beloved France”—
a thing not many men would have said in
the circumstances to the representatives of
Other nations allied in a still-unwon war;
and yet. perhaps there wasn’t a man who
heard him but liked him better because he
said it.
Camille Ducray, who writes the latest
sketch of the great Frenchman —Clemenceau
.(H odder and Stoughton)—gives us two
pictures of the rooms in which his subject
worked. First, there is the dispensary
which, as a young doctor, he had in the Rue
des Trois-FrSres:
The door [from the waiting room] is half wood,
half glass, the panes chalked over. Let us open it
after three hours of waiting. We find ourselves in
M. Clemenceau’s consulting-room. Five pictures
framed and hung on a three-pence-a-roll wall-paper,
an oak . bureau, . a mahogany armchair, an iron
stove with its pipe climbing up the wall with the
help of dangling wire; on the windows curtains hung
on string.
The picture of Clemenceau’s surroundings
when he was producing Bloc is much the
same. His office when he was leading
France out of the Slough of Despond was
not greatly different. The American man-
ager of .a department store would have been
shocked at the absence of table telephones.
In four years of desperate struggle France
had no time for furbishing. There was
scarcely an attendant on the premises. The'
room was almost bare. Half a dozen chairs
that had seen hard wear; a table. And on
the table, among a litter of papers, the skull-
cap with which his visitors knew the old
man had covered his baldness before he
sprang from his chair to welcome them.
Poincare, fleshy, comfortable, pleasant, sat
and talked affabilities. Clemenceau, on his
feet, ardent, impetuous, called to service, and
the call to .service was a call to fight. He
had met his Parliament in the same way:
It is not, bv bleating for peace that Prussian mili-
tarism will be silenced. Home politics? 1 wage
war! Foreign politics? 1 wage war! Russia be-
trays us? 1 continue to wage war. Our unfortu-
nate ally Roumania is obliard to capitulate? I
continue to wage war. And I will continue till the
very last quarter of an hour, because the last
quarter of an hour will be ours !
And now he meets Woodrow Wilson, and
—he continues to wage war. For “the only
thing we seek is such a peace—a just one; a
solid one—-that generations to come may be
saved, from the abominations of the past ”
Clomonceau’s hour is hot finished till that
pence is accomnlished.
Camille Ducray writes of his subject’s
student days, his work as a doctor, his mar-
riage (and his divorce), his political
struggles, his duels, his books, his plays.
But there is not room in a thin book to deal
with any more than the outstanding fea-
tures in the long life of this man of tre-
mendous energy and manifold activities.
There will be a library of Clemenceau liter-
ature for the bookshelves of the twenties.
This is a good introduction.
(Continued on page 24.)


nee
s?
mu*
Anthony Horderns'
for
5221.
No. 5221.—A Smart Model, suitable for average
and full figures, in Coutil, front reinforcement,
medium bust. Sizes 21 to 30 inches. Price, 20/11
l\ ]
5551.
5463.
No. 5581.—A Well-tailored Model, in Coutil,
suitable for full figures, medium low bust. Sizes
22 to 30 inches. Price 27/11
No. 5463.—An Excellent. Model for slight
figures, With low bust, in Coutil. Sizes 20 to
26 inches. Price 13/11
1
5197.
5164.
No. 5497.—A Splendid Model for tall, slender
figures, medium bust, in Coutil. Sizes 20 to 28
inches. Price 17/11
No. 5164.—A Grand Model for average to
Stout figures, reinforced with abdominal belt, in
Coutil. Sizes 23 to 36 inches. Price 17/11
OISE is a characteristic to be desired
and is obtained by wearing an izod's
A Corset. It holds the form with a
firm gentleness, giving it the beautiful lines
all women envy. That is why ladies who
pride themselves on their appearance wear
Izod’s Corsets —the corsets of excellence.
Izod’s Corsets are made in England by an
old-established firm, and only the best
materials are used. They are made in white
to wash, and will neither Break, Rust nor
Tear. They are economical corsets, too.
An illustrated price list of Izod’s Corsets
will be sent post free on request. There is
a model for every type of figure at a price to
suit every purse. The prices range from
8/11 to 59/11. Some of the new models are
illustrated on this page.
We Pay Carriage on IZOD’S CORSETS
to any part of N.S W.
5573.
. 5573. A Smart Model in embroidered spot
Jean, suitable for full figures, medium high bust,
front reinforcement. Sizes 21 to 30 inches. Price, 33/11
K
m
T V
5576.
5491.
Mo. 5576. —A Comfortable Model for heavy,
full, stout figures, in Coutil. Sizes 23 to 36
inches. Price 25/11
Mo. 5494. —A Perfect Model, in White Coutil,
suitable for slender and average figures, low
bust. Sizes 20 to 28 inches. Price 16/11
V'l \
5552.
7-1 «*
\\S ii¥rt
5477.
No. 5552. —An Exquisite Model in Handsome
Broche Coutil, for slender to average
figures, low bust. Sizes 21 to 28 inches.
Price, 45/11
No. 5477.—A Lightweight Model, suitable for
average figures, low bust, in Coutil. Sizes 20
to 26 inches. Price 12/11
ANTHONY HORDERN &SONS.L”
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Jew
S it
6058 i~ i ek fi e 1 d
Sydney.
Hill,


Let These Electric Radiators
Heat Your Homes.
109. —This 4-light Radiator is in Brass
Finish, and is certainly one that will
appeal to discriminating buyers. You
will like its neatness and its sturdy con-
struction. Send for particulars to-day.
We Stock
Everything'
Electrical.
Send us your orders for Electric
Irons, Heating Apparatus, Bells,
Bell Pushes, Battery Material,
Wire and Cables, Electrical Wir-
ing Accessories, Lamps, Shades,
Fittings, Switches, etc.
You cannot get better values than
those w r e offer.
104. —Here is another Oxidised Copper
Finish Radiator that sells well. A 4-
light style that gives genuine satisfac-
tion to users—low in first cost and a
really economical Radiator at all times.
At every electric-light socket in your home a willing servant waits ready to serve you —ready to
add to the joy and comfort of life—and in many ways reduce your expenses.
The electric wiring in a house represents a substantial investment.. If you use it only for lights,
you are .receiving but a small part of the benefits to which you are entitled from this investment.
Get full efficiency from your electrical installation by using electricity wherever possible in your
home.
Use ‘an Electric Radiator to keep your homes warm during the cold days of Winter. For simplicity,
cleanliness and economy Electric Radiators have now established themselves as firm favorites. You
can carry them from room to room as required.
You connect the plug and in a few minutes you have the room heated —at very slight cost, and
when once heated it keeps a uniform heat until you switch the current off.
We can safely say we have the largest and most varied assortment of Electric Radiators in the
City —scores of designs being shown both in Oxidised Copper and various other finishes.
The Radiators illustrated, together with all other designs sold by us, have been manufactured
specially for William Adams & Co., Ltd. Their design and construction are of the highest grade,
embodying the result of modern engineering, and have never been equalled in durability, efficiency
and appearance.
It has always been our aim to produce Radiators on whose reliability and lasting qualities, absolute
dependence can be placed. Towards this end nothing has been spared in the workmanship or
materials used.
r=cz
flr
«
u
m
No. 108.
108. —Illustrated is a particularly
attractive Radiator in Oxidised Copper
Finish. It is a 4-light style—well built
and a decided acquisition to any home.
m
i
m
k
%
1
I
m
m
mm
%
#
We can recommend this Radiator with every confidence,
for it is massively built to give many season’s good
service. It is in Oxidised Copper finish —a plain style,
but one that finds favor everywhere.
Perfectum Lamps
Insure Lighting
Efficiency,
The Perfectum Metal Filament Lamp cannot be surpassed for
household and general use. It is made after research and
experiment of the greatest lighting experts, in a factory
devoted entirely to lamp manufacture. Rigid inspection and
most exhaustive tests ensure that each lamp reaches the
"Perfectum.” Standard in life, strength and efficiency.
VL
PERFECT
UM
William Adams $ Co. Ltd.
Eledtrical Supplies Department,
171 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Agents in N. S. Wales for the British Insulated and Helsby Cables Ltd.; also for Meta! Manufactures Ltd., Port Kernbla, N. S. Wales.
521-523 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
96 Currie Street, ADELAIDE..
BRISBANE: Cr. Edward and Mary Streets.
83 King Street, PERTH.


Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Although over £750,000 was paid dur-
ing 1918 in War Claims alone, the
Cash Bonus Distributed for 1918
exceeded.. .. .. .. .. £1,000,000
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. .. £1,700,000
Accumulated Funds exceed .. •• £39,000,000
Annual Income over .. .. .. £5,500,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
11. W. APPERLY, General Manager.
AMERICA’S
PIOI’IEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
Pour a little
cn the side
of your plate
HPsaugc
\
i|
being thick and fruity^
■ - ■ ii -* •• •
does not run all over
the plate, saturating the
vegetables,
taken with
desired.
but can be
the meat a?
as
bj niuiimwii
MADE FROM LEMONS ONLY
.../> BROOKE'S
f te/noft squash
LARGEST SALE IN THE WORLD
{"IEORGE HOTEL,
<St. Kilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
(stitvy jfjfojfta Jell Iftr l&tg.
ill: "R e.s hs re '• 4ut'
11
or 8. Alien’s
BOSTOCK’S
DRy CLEANER
FOR
White & Colored Stiede&CaiWaS SljoeS.
the sign of
PERFECTION
It never fails to give entire satisfaction, being easily
rub off, and is unecjualled in every way.
applied, does not
COLORS:—White, Black, Light Grey, Dark Grey,
Champagne.
BoStock’S Violo Polishes, Ltd.,
SyPN€Y.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
TO
H.M. THE KINO.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
PRICE 13 PER BOTTLE.
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Etc.
SORUBB & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
The Federal Motor Lorry Unequalled Under
Severest War Conditions
The gruelling tests of war have proved the efficiency and absolute dependability
of the Federal Motor Lorry.
The Federal has served under the flags of almost every Allied Government.
Engineers everywhere have endorsed the mechanical perfection of the Federal.
We are speeding up the production of Federate on a peace-time basis. Immediate
shipments to any part of the world are contemplated.
Write us to-day for
free magazine,
“Traffic News”
—also
for full prices
and discounts.
R'fINERiA CE PEmCUO
Y GASOIINA
GIJON
1 Ton, $l9OO / F. 0.8. ) 2 Ton, $2600
1/2 ion, $2450 ' Detroit 7 y/ 2 Ton, $3350
5 Ton, SLOO
Federal Motor Truck Company
Factory—Detroit, Mich., U. S. A. Foreign Dept., 18 Broadway, New York, U. S. A.
ONOTO
Britain’s Greatest Writer:
CHARLES DICKENS 1812-1870.
Words alone—even wh’n joined together with the greatest skill—can never tell
the wonderful story of the ONOTO.
its tale. A perfect writing implement,
its daily use by thousands alone can tell
it never leaks, and it fills itse.f.
Price at all staticners, jewelers, etc., 17/-, also Onoto Valveless for those who
do not want a Self-Filling Safety Pen 12/6 and upwaids.
Manufacturers: THOS. DE LA Rl'E & Co., Ltd., unhill Row, London, E.C.
Managing Agents: NORMAN BAKER & LONGHURST, Sydney & Melbourne.
Ask for Onoto Ink—Best for all Pens.
The British Brand protects you
against foreign-made inferior goods
44
Quality Stockings and Sock:
for Ladies, Children & Met
No German or other foreign make can compare witt
this best British brand, for fineness of finish andsilk]
comfort. Australasian pure woo] is used in thi
manufacture of Jason, by the world's bes
hosiery makers —the people of Leicester.
Insist on Jason Stockings and Socks—which an
all-wool, and of soft, silky finish. See the Jasot
Tabon every pair. Drapers and Out fitters everywhere
In case of difficulty write to
Jason Hosiery Co.. Leicester, Eng.
Ao 65
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Valley Girl.
’Tis myself is descended from seven wise
/ writing men,
The seven old men with the still, grey
faces,
Who stayed not inscribing the stone of their
tablets
To hear ratrick himself wrap their land
in God’s graces.
And wisdom is in me as juice in the ripening
berry,
As salt in the sea, or as rain in the dark
cloud;
An’ you with your learnin’ from books smile
upon me.
Seeing a soft white girl, hare-eyed and
wide-browed.
Like the moth in your hand wouldn’t I be
all crushed and broken,
Did you follow the love in your heart and
prison me fast?
r Tis myself knows well that can’t be since
the brain of you is the master.
Have I not said when our lips met first:
’tis the one kiss nearer the last?
There are fires that burn in my blood, green
fires o’ the hedges,
And my speech is the speech of the things
in the twilight hushes ;
And the heart of me throbs to answer the
lone bird out on the sedges,
While the soul of me swings its incense
to God with the song of the thrushes.
’Tis me, unbeknown, makes songs that the
four counties are singing.
Will the heart of me then be fainting be-
neath this same day’s sorrow?
Though the far lands beyond the hills a
glamor about you are flinging.
My heart even now is weavin’ it into the
song of to-morrow.
N.S.W.
NORA McAULIFFE.
Arrows.
Draw, bowman, draw!
Twang and twang of the string.
Jerkins green in the shaw;
Wind in the grey-goose feather!
“Death, death, death” shall they sing,
A hundred arrows together;
And one shall go seeking a king.
One for the heart of a king!
See where they flame in the sun—
Golden bees with a sting—
And below is the battle and smother
And. the little red streams that run.
Shall it be your shaft, brother,
Or mine, when the deed is dene?
Curved to the arch of the sky,
Turned with the drift of the wind,
Down and down shall they fly,
“Death, death, death” in their singing,
Each of them swift and blind,
Each with a barb for stinging;
And one has a king to find.
Bowman, green in the shaw,
Bending the yew to the string,
What was the thing you saw?
One shaft went to a sparrow,
One shaft went to a king.
These are the ways of the arrow
That knows not anything.
Let there be flights of song—
Arrows and arrows of light!
For ever the world goes wrong ;
And only the years know whether
Your word or mine in its flight
Shall waste on a sparrow’s feather
Or break a. king in the fight.
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
Mystery.
11l a garden made over to roses alone
I wandered through velvet gloom,
TV here no light w’ind stirred, no leaf was
blown
And the air was bewitched with perfume,
The dreams of the sleeping roses; and light
From the wonderful stars dropped down
and blent
TVith the deep, delicious garden scent,
And Beauty walked in the halls of Night.
Her hand found mine in the dark, and Life
At her touch with roses and stars was
wreathed round.
So sorrow seemed ended and ancient strife
And pain forgotten and Death discrowned.
That was only last eve;
Now all things grieve.
There’s a dirge in the pines to-day
That tells of sorrow the world has known,
And why is the sea so grey?
And why do its darkened waters moan.
And why do those women pace on,the shore
Sad-eyed for faces that smile no more?
Ah, mourning women and moaning wind !
Do they grieve alike for the death of joy.
' % the things life has left behind, '
F or tall men dead by the Plain of Troy
And sad things done on the fields of France.
-Lor limes bereavements and Life’s mis-
chance ?
In dirgmg wind and wailing sea,
And sighing trees and shrouded sky,
- erehance some spirit more vast than we,
foredoomed, like us, to suffer and die,
i_nd, blind, as we, to the ultimate plan,
lhus mourns for the fated race of man ;
as we might see with shadowed eyes
Alonsr the road we travel by
borne little woodland life that dies—,
Begun and ended, who knows why?
N.S.W.
P. QUINN.


FOR FORD CARS
30 x 3-| Perdriau Super Tread Tyres are guaranteed to Fold owners
for 4000 miles. Their mileage actually goes well beyond this.
PRICES:—
Cover £6/16|6.
High-grade Laminated Red Tube,
Heavy 241-
Light 19)6.
Have a set fitted by your local garage or by the Manufacturers:
PERDRIAU RUBBER Co. Ltd.
270 George Street, Sydney.
* /so Flinders Street, Melbourne
A del aide Street 7 Brisbane
Gaw/er Place, Adelaide
Murray Street, Perth
Elastic
T.
uss
Send for our Trus
Pamphlet-mailed fre
in plain envelope.
o «
If You are Ruptured
—wear a truss. There’s no get away from it—it’s
either precaution or neglect. Which for you ?
Neglect is dangerous; therefore be wise in time
and wear
DENVER’S
ELASTIC TRUSS
for the Denyer Truss is recognised as the greatest of all
safeguards for ruptured persons.
It is a perfect support, vet comfortable; allows absolute
freedom of movement, and is never inconvenient.
It is the result of many years’ specialisation in the making
of Trusses.
Single, 20/-; Double, 27/0.
DENYER BROS.
9
Makers of Trusses, Abdominal
Belts and Artificial Limbs,
2®l George Street, Sydney.
1
«s
©
i
fifi
'1 he Practical Motor
Lunch
Packing the luncheon basket
should take but a few minutes.
No need to waste time cutting
sandwiches — that's quite out
of date. Just slip a couple of
tins of
“REX”
CAMP PIE
into the basket Open them up
when it's time for lunch —and
you have a meat delicacy that
everyone will relish. A fine,
wholesome, satisfying meal
that you really enjoy. And
whether you drive a “ Rolls-
Royce” ora “Ford” — “Rex"
Camp Pie is always “in place!’
AL WA YS KEEP A FEW TINS
IN THE HOUSE
SOLD BY GROCERS EVERYWHERE
NO OTHER CHEESE HAS QUITE THE
DELICIOUS FLA VOROF
“REX”
LUNCHEON CHEESE
FOGGITT, JONES & CO. LTD.
Packers of "Rex” Pure Food Products
Curers of "Rex” Hams and Bacon
J. 611
GOODRICH FULL-SIZED
BLACK SAFETY-TREAD TYRES
STAND THE KNIFE TEST.
With its thick, tough, Goodrich Black Safety Tread slashed
back, its sinewy, resilient, Full-Sized fabric body laid bare
before you, it reveals the reason why Goodrich Full-Sized
Tyres stand all tests.
For, contrary to common belief, tyres wear out inside as
well as outside.
By using Goodrich Full-Sized Tyres you minimise these
risks —and why—because all Goodrich Tyres are Full-
Size and measure up to the dimensions branded on them
—and—being Full-Sized —give greater air space, conse-
quently putting less strain on the fabric casing.
Therefore —giving longer wear and more mileage, because
with its resilient rubber-saturated casing it is able to with-
stand internal heat (which is the enemy of tyres), so
making the tyre more durable.
Out of this resilience in Goodrich Safety Tread Tyres
comes Petrol saving, smoother riding comfort and pro-
longed mileage.
You cannot afford to be without Goodrich. Get to know
Goodrich Full-Sized Tyres.
Put them to the test yourself by having at least one fitted
t(T your car.
DUVAL CO.
145 Collins St. r 13 Castlereagh St., 300 Adelaide St.,
MELBOURNE. SYDNEY. BRISBANE.
Cornell Ltd., Adelaide; A. C. MacCailum, Perth; Robt. Nettlefold. Hobart
“BEST IN THE LONG RUN.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Vol. 40.—N0. SO")!.
THURSDAY, JUNE 26, 1919.
Pbice 6d.
SAVING HIS DIGNITY.
“Germany fears most of all loss of prestige as a civilised white nation. Delegates have therefore been instructed to press for inclusion in the League of Nations.” — Cable.
FRITZ (to the nations generally): “Take der swag, take der trousers, take der gun, but for Gott's sake spare mein hat.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for ■ The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office, of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. Od. per annum you can have The Bulletin
sent regularly to you every week for a year, to any
ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor toill carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Betters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—toill be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — N, Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt.- —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
lloung, Cairo, Egypt. >
Hono Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon.— W. Q. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samtirai.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — othervnse; 80s., lid.; Bloz. to 10oz., 3d.;
lOoz. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, -)oz., lid., and id. each
additional 2oz.
'ffite'SSixHdtzai.
THURSDAY, JUNE 26, 1919.
TASMANIA STATES ITS CASE.
What exactly will happen when all the
States get into the position of requiring
special assistance from the Commonwealth,
which is itself all the States —that and
nothing more? In other words, what will
happen when they are all leaning against a
post which is no longer there? Both Tas-
mania and Westralia are already on the
assistance list and expect to be in worse
trouble when their special allowances expire,
and still worse trouble when the Federal
grant to all the States of 255. per inhabitant
per annum begins to diminish. How South
Australia, with no gold or coal, and
with not one river of its own worth mention-
ing and the least rainfall of all, has avoided
applying for aid so far is marvellous; but
when the Federal subsidy is cut down it
may also be found among the applicants on
the doorstep. The case of Tasmania and
its “Claim to Special Consideration Conse-
quent upon the New Financial Proposals of
the Commonwealth Government” have lately
been set forth by Treasurer Neil Lewis in
an official document. It is interesting,
partly on the island’s account and partly
because this country runs seven big local
Public Debts and sevefn big foreign Public
Debts for five million people, and because
all these debts are being renewed now with
difficulty and at high interest, and if any-
thing went wrong with one of them the
whole edifice of credit would totter.
* * j * ' *
No Tasmanian port ever had a chance to
make money as a distributing centre for
other States, as Melbourne, Sydney and
Auckland did, for the isle is off the big lines
of trade and its capital looks towards tl’i
South Pole. It never had a great land-
boom, being short of acres, and its land rev-
enue per head is only a'bout half that of its
big neighbors. Incidentally, because it is
a place with a nice English climate, certain
British people secured grants that its Treas-
ury could ill spare before the local Govern-
ment found its feet. On the other hand,
it 'is a good mineral producer, and if agri-
culture is the road to prosperity, then its
fertility should have put it in the front rank.
But its supreme misfortune is that it has
followed the lunatics road and imported
capital “to develop the great natural re-
sources of the country” more crazily than
any of its neighbors on the mainland, with
the recent exception of Westralia. It isn’t
the gross amount of Tasmania’s debt which
is so absolutely disastrous, for it owes less
than four of the mainland States, and its
total liability per head is £73 11s. 2d., as
against the mainland average of £7B 2s. Bd.
A peace debt of £73 11s. 2d. (or even Vic-
toria’s peace debt of £5O 3s. 6d.) per head
would be considered- fairly mad in some
countries, but in Australia it is quite
moderate. Unhappily, old Tasmania’s legis-
lators, with straws in their hair, spent more
loan money on non-paying roads, bridges,
harbors, rivers and public buildings than on
railways, which at least produce some rev-
enue, though they somehow yield less in
Tasmania than in any other State —only
about li per cent, on the loan money they
represent. The people who ran Tasmania
aimed to make it another Ireland at Ire-
land’s worst —the land of absentee capital-
ists. And they succeeded to a marvel.
* * * *
The interest bill, payable to the outsiders
who “developed the great natural resources”
and took the resources and something over
in payment, has got Tasmania down and is
sitting on its chest. Its savings-bank de-
posits, which are a fair test, show its wealth
to be little more than half as much per in-
habitant as the mainland’s. The profits of
its banking. shipping, insurance and mining
businesses mostly go out of the island, be-
cause these things practically all belong to
the class which H. V. Braddon is seeking in
the U.S.—the foreign investors and devel-
opers. Wages are naturally the lowest in
the Commonwealth. Yet this poor, low-wage
tributary place raises 525. 6d. per inhabitant
per annum in direct State taxes against' 395.
9d. which is the average in continental Aus-
tralia —-it must do it to pay the absentee.
Last year it received an extra or charitable
allowance of Bs. per inhabitant from the
Commonwealth (335. 6d. against the other
States’ 255. 6d.). When that special allow-
ance runs out, which it will do very shortly,
the poorest State will apparently have to
raise 60s. 6d. per head per year in direct
State taxes against its richer neighbors’
average of 395. 9d. When the grant which
the Commonwealth makes to all the States
begins to be scaled down next year and
reaches 10s. per head per annum in 1926,
Tasmania sees a prospect of having to raise
out of its poverty 765. per inhabitant annu-
ally in addition to Federal direct and in-
direct taxes, with not a ghost of a million-
aire to levy on. Within a fraction of 97
per cent, of the income-tax payers possess
less than £7OO a year, and land-tax is levied
without any exemptions whatsoever. The
island isn’t like Westralia, which levies the
smallest taxation per head among the States
and takes deficits as a matter of course. It
makes an heroic effort; but a public debt that
eats up nearly half the income and is mostly
unproductive and almost all held by absen-
tees takes a lot of effort. How much more
can be demanded of the people without mak-
ing an unduly large proportion of them take
ship across the strait to the State with the
smallest debt is uncertain.
* * * #
Tasmania is going the same way as its
neighbors, only it is further on the road than
some. The Commonwealth may have a lucid
moment and decide to double its population
at short notice —to halve the burden of the
debt by having twice as many people to carry
it —by making the people who manufacture
for us come here and be taxpayers instead of
living in England or the United States and
being our absentees and other countries’ tax-
payers. But that can only be done by a
strenuous reversal of the old fiscal methods.
And even a reversal of oM fiscal methods
is not going to save either Tasmania or other
States which are on the very edge of trouble
unless it is accompanied bv hard work.
Those who have got hold of the Labor party
talk of greatly reducing working hours just
as though, instead of having fallen into debt,
we had H°en piling up wealth beyond our
needs. There must be an awakening to the
facts before the future can be safe.
AUSTRALIAN DEFENCE.
There is a movement, which for many
reasons is more likely to grow than other-
wise during the coming months, to wreck
Australian defence altogether. The repre-
sentatives of three States at the Inter-State
Labor Conference in Sydney were definitely
instructed to support the abolition of the
compulsory clauses of the Defence Act, while
one (Tas.) remitted the idiotic but signifi-
cant suggestion “that no action be taken by
Australia in future wars without the
approval of the electors, as expressed by
means of a referendum, unless Australia be
directly attacked.” These are symptoms
partly of war-nausea, partly of the influence
of the Internationals on the local Labor
movement, and partly of a recognition by the
vote-chasers that the majority of the trainees
have now reached voting age. Australia,
being a democratic country, can put in a
Government which will take steps to wipe
out compulsory service at once, and wait for
invasion before it starts to train and arm
men. Which is another way of saying
that it can resign itself to becoming an
Asiatic dependency, the modern Asiatic
being the last person to play the Brother-
hood of Man game on the lines laid down
by the visionary skiters of the soap-box.
But the country cannot have the thing both
ways. If it is going to have defence it must
be efficient defence if it is to be of any value;
and, as it hapoens. there is a unique chance
to achieve it at the present time.
* * * *
Warfare has developed so intensively
since Kitchener originated the C.M.F. that
his scheme now reads like a product
of the remote past. There is no doubt it
needs a drastic overhaul. Five years ago.
and earlier, Australia was in the position of
such countries as Turkey and China ; it had
to go elsewhere for advice. To-day it has
all the experts it needs on the premises. The
Government has at its disposal three men
who hold world-wide reputations as repre-
sentatives of the last word in modern so’dier-
ing. Monash is a great infantryman ;
Ciiauvel is one of the cavalrymen of the
world; and White, General Birdwood’s
right-hand man with the A.I.F. and the
Fifth Army, is an incomparable staff-officer.
They should all be in the Commonwealth
before Admiral Jellicoe leaves, which will
give them an opportunity—if they are used
as the national safety and interest demand
they should be used —to co-ordinate the
country’s military and naval defence
schemes. Assuming Australia is to remain
a part of the British Empire, there is a big
job ahead as regards standardisation. In
the earlier stages of the war there were
strange differences between the establish-
ments of the various Imperial armies. The
A.I.F. had a G.S. waggon which was all its
own, and which ultimately had to be
scrapped by the hundred in favor of the
standard vehicle; the Canadians had a 4-gun
when the Australians had 6-gun batteries.
The Canadians stuck to the Ross rifle while
the A.I.F. was using the Lee-Enfield ; and so
on. The methods of training differed widely
in the different armies, and so did the Staff
systems. The distinguished soldiers indi-
cated are in a position to put before Par-
liament a scheme which will not only be
the most serviceable to Australia, but enable
it to line up beside the other Dominions,
with the minimum of friction, if the calami-
tous need should ever arise again.
* * * *
Above everything, such men would bring
to the business an understanding of Aus-
tralians and of Australian conditions —an
asset which is indispensable to any individ-
ual or institution that sets out to remodel
the C.M.F. and the Defence Act. There is
an atmosphere of chaos about Australia’s
military system. A citizen may belong to
the A.1.F., to the C.M.F., to the N. & M.E.F.
or he may be on Home Service. And he may
belong to and hold commissions in the lot.
General Howse, V.C., one of the great
organisers discovered by the war, would —
theoretically, anyhow—control a section of
a Field Ambulance in the C.M.F.; and he
is a colonel in the N. & M.E.F. Lieutenants
in the C.M.F. rose by ability and good ser-
vice to be field-officers in the A.1.F.; they
are still lieutenants in the C.M.F. Civilians
who entered the A.I.F. as privates and ended
up in charge of brigades,’as a result of merit
alone, are going back to civilian life on
demobilisation. Meanwhile every section of
the Service contains officers and 'n.c.o.’s who,
for reasons good, bad and indifferent, did not
go to the war; and who, in consequence, have
no knowledge of warfare under modern con-
ditions. Their presence, whether in the Per-
manent forces or in the Militia, is of the
utmost advantage to those who are working to
destroy the Defence principle in Australia.
They may know something about training
boys and the class of man who enlisted in
the Permanent forces before the war, but
they are ruinously handicapped when "it
comes to handling the average Australian
adult. Their recent efforts as G.M.P.. ■nd
guardians of the military peace generally,
are sufficient proof. The ineptitude which
distinguishes every department at the vari-
ous barracks was not common knowledge
until soldiering became a national habit.
Now everyone recognises it and most people
know the cause. Those in authontv belong
mostly to what they call the “good old
school.” Many of them entered the service
late in life, by one or other of the back-door
methods; many more are ex-n.c.o.’s with no
qualifications as staff-officers beyond atten-
tion to detaiL In the C.M.F., as among the
regulars, there are offiqers and n.c.o.’s who
only tend to discredit military training;—old
or invalid men or, worse still, persons who
might have served abroad and didn’t.
* * ■* *
Similar types exist, of course, in the
A.I.F. Like every other army it contains
officers and n.c.o.’s who should be super-
annuated ; and others who should be
scrapped for a variety of reasons. It is from
the residue, the flower of an army which
was the equal of any in the world, that the men
to organise Australia’s forces, both citizen
and regular, should be drawn ; and a large
proportion of them would be available for the
purpose. ■ The re-modelling of the existing
Defence system to that end would involve a
weed’ng-out of all who have reached the
age-limit, which would call, in equity and
decency, for pensions for those who have
devoted their lives to the service. The medi-
would have to be eliminated by a
real examination, and those who d ; d not
offer to serve, or who subtly dodged service,
would have t- be retired. Soldiers of the
calibre of Monasii, White and Chauvel
are just the men to devise the necessary
machinery. and to select the officers to work
it. The effect would be to give Australia, at
a relatively small cost, a -permanent and a
citizen force nossessing the maximum of pres-
tige and efficiency. To continue with the
present jerry-built arrangement will not, in
the long run, be even in the best interests of
those who are most prominently associated
with it. The only people likely to score are
those who depend on a series of military
scandals for arguments in favor of render-
ing the Commonwealth entirely defenceless.
THE NEW KING.
The new world-king climbs on the throne as
the old king clambers off. He comes with
conscious power and dignity. The old one
may not have been the real thing, but at all
events he aimed at the position, and
he came near enough to success to justify
the figure of speech. As for Uncle Sam. he
leaves no doubt about being the genuine
article, and when the dust of battle clears
away he Will be seen sitting in his place of
state with the earth under his cowhide
boots and his plug hat raking down the stars.
The newcomer has all the earmarks of
success. Luck has been with him ; but he
didn’t trust to luck, and he missed no
chances. The United States has never gone
into a war without winning it. Though
Britain tried to persuade itself that the
scrap of 1812 was a draw, all the advantages
lay with the other side, and J. Bull
couldn’t even prevent Spain being pushed off
the American continent because the neu-
trality of its viceroy in Florida was tinged
rather too conspicuously with personal friend-
ship for England. Again, the United Stntes
has never gone into an arbitration without
getting the verdict, and there was always a
sort of feeling that it would have taken the
verdict in any case. In the Alabama case it
got such a heap of verdict that, after the
Government had paid all the claims for
damage that its citizens could prove, it had
plenty of British money left on its hands.
.Very early in its career—in 1823, to be
exact —it warned all and sundry that nobody
save itself must be allowed to steal or acquire
territory from the Latin republics. Euro-
pean Powers might protect any of them
against their big neighbor, but only dreamy
and sentimental nations assist distant folk
when there is no hope of territorial reward.
This policy was designed partly to prevent
any of the‘revolted Latin States thinking
better of it and returning to the Spanish or
Portuguese connection, and becoming once
more, like Canada and British Honduras,
and British, French and Dutch Guiana, part
of a European combine with European sup-
port behind them. Brazil had only set up
for itself in 1822, so no time was lost in
declaring that there must be no second
thoughts. The Monroe Doctrine has at
last, after 96 years, been recognised by the
Powers of Europe, though it has been in work-
ing order all along even without recognition.
Under the U.S.A. policy European Powers can
quit America, but they cannot come back.
France left the American continent' in
1803. Spain was elbowed off in 1812 —
that is to say, it sold Florida, having been
informed that it would lose the possession
in any case. In 1898 the same feeble Power
was shunted out of all its American coastal
islands and all its Pacific possessions, the
sinking of the Maine in a Cuban harbor
answering the same purpose as the slaying
of the Archduke Ferdinand at Sarajevo did
for Austria in 1914. The four possibilities
were that the Maine had been destroyed by
internal accident; or by the internal malice
of one of these cranks who murder U.S.
Presidents; or by the Cuban insurgents in
the hope that the incident might excuse the
U.S. in following its interests and coming
into the war on their side, which it did; or
that the Spaniards committed, the deed to
increase the already bitter prejudice aga nst
them as Europeans who held valuable
property in American waters. The Uncle
Sam Government accepted the fourth version
of the case, without arbitrating over the mat-
ter. and in its just indignation acquired about
120.000 square miles of rich country. Cuba,
which is large and troublesome, was not an-
nexed at once, but exists as a client republic
which nobody else can annex. It is waiting
its turn. Russia was beguiled into selling
its vast and frozen American territory to the
U.S. very cheaply in 1567. The territory
was of no special value then. But when
after years of debate, the buyer managed to
enforce a shadowy Russian claim to half
the western coast-line of Canada, there was
real profit in the business. In fact, the
lawsuit that was bought with the estate
was the really valuable part of the estate.
There was nothing brutally aggressive about
any of these doings. Having the instincts
which make for success, the new nation
always got there without being unbearable.
The new King-race has been singularly
free of that possibly noble but certainly
expensive habit, the fighting of wars of senti-
ment. The Russian, being an emotional
Slav, might drift into foolish expense , on
behalf of fellow-Slavs or even fellow-religion-
ists in Bulgaria, Serbia, Montenegro, Greece
and other non-dividend-paying localities.
The heated Frank might stake money and
lives on Greek and Italian liberty. But the
United States person never went to the
Crusades, partly because he wasn’t born
then, and partly because he wouldn’t have
gone if he had been born. He didn’t even
fight his own Civil War to release his colored
brother as is sometimes supposed, though
the colored brother, being property, was con-
fiscated in the middle of the war like much
other rebel property. Even in the interval
between secession and actual bloodshed
Abraham Lincoln was most punctilious in
returning runaway slaves to be flogged by
their masters in order to show the slave-
owner that he was barking up the wrong
tree if he thought anybody meant to inter-
fere on behalf of a person who hadn’t a
copper to buy support with. When the
late war began the attitude of Abraham
Lincoln’s country was equally business-
like. Instead of growing excited over Hun-
atrocities it sent, through its President,
congratulations to the Kaiser on his birth-
day. This was in the second year of the
horrors. The Kaiser being a wealthy and
still successful firm, it was the commercial
thing to do. .The U.S. attitude was that its
two great rivals, Britain and Germany,
might wreck each other’s naval and military
and man power and manufactures and com-
merce and finance, while the big unimpas-
sioned third party profited by everything
and gathered up everything.
The profits of this attitude were so vast
that the Union began to reek with money.
Highly-skilled workmen earned nearly £IOOO
a year, and New York society got into the
habit of tipping the waiter five dollars as
a matter of course. The change came when
the Hun, believing victory certain and being
off his head, began a wholesale destruction
of U.S. commerce to wipe out the big profits
and big wages and the five-dollar tips. The
Ilun explained prematurely that the new
claimant to the financial throne of the world
would have to fight. The throne wasn’t
going by default.
Thus driven by financial circumstances,
the great United States went into the
struggle at. last, with the courage and
energy of its race and on the best hard-
money principles. It didn’t lend, after the
fashion of France and Britain, to gallant
but broken and penniless little Allies. It
lent to France and Britain, the only solvent
Allies, so that they might pass the money
along, at their own risk, to those who needed
it. Serbia and Belgium were helped with
the two best names in the world on the back
of the bill. The U.S. made a prominent
appearance at one battle only—St. Mihiel —
when the Hun line was already giving way,
and it never got another big chance. It lost
50.000 men and 80 ships in a conflict which
cost France 1400 000 men and Br’tsin 2107
ships, and its ship losses happened mostly
before the war, not because of the war. It


obtained nearly twice as much shipping as
it had lost, because a multitude of Hun
vessels had sheltered in Uncle Sam's har-
bors, thinking him a permanent neutral.
Characteristically enough, it never was an
Ally at all, but fought as a free lance out-
side the Alliance, reserving the right to draw
out or even to change sides any day. Yet
by sheer business instinct this dilatory and
non-committal friend has almost taken
charge of the Peace arrangements, and has
asserted its status as the boss nation of the
earth beyond mistake.
A people with such talents and such
chances is not only certain to attain the high
places; it almost deserves to do so.
SOLOMON MALAPROP.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Letter About White Australia.
The Bulletin has received from G. 11.
Blakemore a letter of great length and
burning eloquence which it would gladly
print in full if it was a 144-page paper and
came out oftener. The following, however,
is an honest attempt to give the gist of the
note. After alluding to the fact that white
men occasionally live a very long time both
in Northern Austria and in Hell —longer
in Hell-—he proceeds :
13 it not a fact, as demonstrated by the distribu-
tion of the populations of black and white, that the
Torrid Zone—viz., between the Tropic of Capricorn
and the Tropic of Cancer, 28£ degrees south
and north of the equator respectively—is not a
place where the white man can be expected to thrive
under ordinary and not forced conditions? If it were
such a place, why have the two great divisions of man
naturally divided themselves over the earth so that
the white man lives in the temperate zone between
the Tropic of Cancer and the edge of the Arctic
Circle (he prefers to live mostly half-way between
the two points named), whilst the black man lives
in the Torrid Zone ? The white man does go and
live in the Torrid Zone, but he goes there because of
the allurement of quickly-made wealth or much
higher salary than the white man’s section of the
earth is prepared to pay him. The spirit of adven-
ture rules in this case, and it is well known that
adventurers of this type are generally the pick of
their kind. Physical tests of humanity prove beyond
question that high humidity with high temperatures
is fatal to energy and ends in the man either drop-
ping into the lazy methods of the native or to a
much reduced state of health. It is a condition of
climate that is certainly not conducive to longevity.
In this State we have laws which prevent employers
from working men in a temperature and humidity
which ranges far below that experienced in the
north of this country. In the North I have experi-
enced a temperature of 100 degrees in the shade
(under the Gulf) whilst a deluge of rain was falling.
This meant 100 per cent, of moisture with 100
degrees of temperature; in other words, a saturated
atmosphere.
Have we not had 200 years of experience in India,
and what has it all proved ? A white man marries,
a child is born to him, and in the course of a year
or two the white woman has to be sent to a cooler
climate to save her and the child, or the children.
If the woman struggles through her life without
going away from such a climate she is worn out and
old at 40 and her children are weeds.
The Torrid Zone, which is roughly 3000 miles
wide, is the hottest part of the earth. The countries
which lie within its boundaries are the West Indies,
Central America, the south of Mexico, Southern
India, Indo-China, Soudan, Southern Arabia, Niger
Territory—their population all black— Northern
Territory of Australia and North Queensland, which
we are to make white! In all the Torrid Zone, that
great mass of the world’s area nearly as large as
the rest of the earth’s surface, history has not
recorded an indigenous white population. What hope
have we to establish that which Nature failed to do?
To keep the North empty and Australia white
means that the people of this country must fight for
the principle, and some day when it comes it will
be no small fight. It is doubtful if the average man
who talks easily of a “White Australia’’ realises
that it is a more pronounced and positive doctrine
than the Monroe Doctrine of America. Every man
who has read much history knows what a provoca-
tion that was and is to-day to certain nations. To
talk White Australia and not be prepared to the last
button to fight for it is puerility.
To which The Bulletin replies as briefly
as possible:
(1) It is manufacturing a bogus case to speak of
white men and black men only. It should be white
and colored. There are' hardly enough real black
men in the world to make a fuss about, and they
have never troubled us much.
(2) The bulk of the colored races live quite out-
side the tropics in China, Japan, India (India is
mostly non-tropical), Tibet (very cold), Persia
(wholly non-tropical), Arabia and Egypt (both
mostly non-tropical), Morocco, Algeria, Tunis,
Tripoli, etc. So the alleged natural divisions of man
between temperate (white) and tropical (colored)
simply don’t exist.
(3) Women and children are not sent “home”
from India because of the heat. A country where
the winter snows in places lie 15ft. deep has plenty
of coolth to offer. The reasons are: There are only
120,000 white people in India, or one to 15 square
miles. There isn't room for more, just as there
might not be room for more in Australia if the
colored man was admitted freely. Women go
“home” for a glimpse of white' society. If they
didn’t it would be supposed that English society had
chucked them out. Children go “home” because the
child brought-up and educated in India must, there
being one white person to 15 square miles, associate
with the natives at an impressionable age, and he
grows up to be an object of suspicion and scorn—an
“outsider” in every way. The white man has no
faith in the native.
(4) The fact that there may be now and then
lOOdeg. of heat with rain in the tropics only proves
that any country is liable to have spells of weather
in which work is impossible. Some parts of the
tropics, on the other hand, get one shower per year.
Over a great party of Scotland population is decreas-
ing because white men are tired of the beastly bleak
weather and think it unfit to work in. In North
Queensland the white man is increasing and he lives
longer—not in isolated eases but in the aggregate, as
shown by the death rate—than in Scotland.
(5) There probably will be a sheol of a row to
keep Australia white, but hitherto the row has been
to keep eool southern Australia white—about Bal-
larat and Bendigo and Lambing Flat. And Maori-
land has had the same trouble. So far as things
have gone in the North, the shindy hasn’t been to
keep out tropical colored men who want to come in
because the climate suits them, but cold-weather
colored men who reckon they can fit any climate, as
any other man can. It is men from places corres-
ponding with Hobart who want to invade the Aus-
tralian tropics. Once they were there they would
refuse to be kept there on the silly plea that they
were a hot-weather folk and Nature never meant
them to come south.
(6) There may be something in the statement
that no indigenous white population has been found
in the Torrid Zone. No indigenous population of
any sort has been found anywhere except in the
Garden of Eden, and it hasn’t been found there.
Even the dark brown men who were discovered in
the U.S. and Canada and Alaska produced no reliable
evidence of being indigenous, though they were
indignant enough.
Here endeth the lesson.
Freeman Regarded as a Precedent.
The Freeman affair offers the Australian
Government an opportunity to deposit the
gauntlet at the feet of those who are using
this bogus hunger-striker as a lever to raise
disorder. If the Government’s recent report
is accurate. Freeman is either an alien of
German origin and a disaffected character,
or a perjurer. The Commonwealth is teem-
ing with undesirable aliens who are anxious
not to leave it. At the recent meeting in
Melbourne of . the Inter-State Council of the
R. S. and S. I. League, Captain Blackburn,
V.C., stated that internees were resuming
business wholesale in S. Aus., and that in
many cases they were openly hostile to Aus-
tralia. Corboy, M.P., of W.A., and a
Queensland delegate remarked that it was
the same in their States. Other countries
are resolutely getting rid of their disloyal-
ists. Canada and South Africa are passing
measures to that end ; the U.S.A. has a bill
before its House of Representatives barring
all immigrants for four years from the sign-
ing of the Peace treaty; and last April a
new Aliens Bill was introduced to the House
of Commons. The English measure repeals
the Act of 1905, and though stringent from
our standpoint is not sufficiently so for those
Britishers who have had recent experience
of the International at close quarters. For
months Britain has been firing its Bolsheviks
out as fast as it could find ships to take
them. Not only does Australia reject the
idea of denaturalising anyone, no matter how
irreconcilably German, but if Freeman and
his backers establish a precedent it will
neither deport nor bar anyone in future. An
intending immigrant or a threatened depor-
tee will only have to give an imitation of a
hunger-strike, and notify the newspapers of
the performance, in order to get the freedom
of the Commonwealth. This would have
been intolerable when the Alien Immigration
Act was in its infancy and Europe and
America were more or less keeping their un-
desirables to themselves; under present con-
ditions it amounts to something like national
suicide. It is impossible to try Freeman in
a Court of Law for being an alien and a dis-
loyalist. wihich is all that anyone has charged
him with being ; but, as it happens, there is
a body qualified to inquire into and pro-
nounce on his bcna fides or otherwise in this
respect. The Aliens Board has just been
constituted in N. S. Wales. It is composed
of inter-State magistrates and was formed
to examine cases of alleged hardship among
internees due for deportation, and, where
advisable, to recommend that they should re-
main in the Commonwealth. Freeman would
get fair consideration for his claims from
such a tribunal. But if the decision was
against him the Government would have to
back the Court. Otherwise it might as well
delegate its powers to a soviet.
♦
To Be Perfectly Frank.
“I found one appeal that never failed was the
honor and prestige of the Australian army. It was
a stronger appeal than anv wishy-washv stuff about
fighting for liberty, the destruction of the oppressor,
or anything of that sort.” — General Monasii, in Syd-
ney Sun.
There spoke a big man —one who was not
afraid of scandalising the phrase-mongers. It
is a strange paradox that Germany, which
cared nothing for the rights of others when
it started the present war, now sees its one
hone of salvation in repeating the gags
about democracy and freedom with which so
many Britishers were hypnotised when Bel-
gium was first invaded. Did we, after all,
make war for democracy, universal suffrage,
and constitutional monarchy for Germany,
and all the other things which to Britishers
mean freedom? Did we even make it,
primarily, to destroy the oppressor of the
Belgians—a people of whom Australia knew
little, when the war began, except that it had
recently had a remarkably festive old king
whose commercial ventures in the Congo
were an offence to the world? We did not.
We went to war in self-defence. Most hypo-
critical of all was the claim, often made up
to. say, the poison-gas epoch, that we were
fighting to give the Germans freedom—to re-
lease them from the tyranny of the Junkers.
The Ramsay Macdonald school in Britain
and the Internationals here still use this
argument to point the claim that the Boche
should be let down very lightly. And yet,
not only did the German people fight will-
in rly while they were winning, but they
obviously revelled in the business. It is
probable that in their hearts the bulk of
the Germans still prefer an autocratic sys-
tem of government —one which benevolently
orders everything for them —and that the
last thing they , want from us is what we
understand as freedom. An employee in a.
bone-works is partial to smells: similarly a
German—if he is a true German—approves
of the tyranny of officialdom. We did not
fight to alter the halfits of the Boche, or
even, chiefly, to save the first victims of his
lust for blood and plunder. We did it to
save ourselves. Actually the A.1.F.. like
every other Allied army, struggled for a
material possession—as material as a 15-
rote or a watch and chain. In the case of
the A.I.F. the gage was Australia. The
Germans did not fight, primarily, to over-
throw our personal liberty, much less to
destroy us. If they had won they would
probably have allowed us a constitutional
S'-'vere-'gn, renresentative Ministries and all
tbe rest —provided we worked for Germany.
•That is to sav, provided they got our
property. When a dansrerous criminal is
bursting into your house yon do not, in the
course of beat'ne him off. reflect that you are
do : ng so for his own good; and that your
chief aim is to reform him and enable him
to live a happier life, with advantage to
himself and the neighbors. You want to get
back any property he may have taken; to
kick him out; to make the place secure
against him in future. That was the real
Australian attitude during the war; and it
should be the Commonwealth’s attitude now.
The minute the Peace Treaty is signed the
genial German trader will re-start operations,
and the kindly old German professor, with
his spectacles and benevolent brow and
friendly beer-tankard, will turn from his
war-notes to essays in the art which, of
all races, the Germans understand best—
that of trade penetration. One of the first
rights they will claim is bound to be" that of
sending their cheap goods here in return for
Australia’s wool and raw materials of all
sorts. And their former system of heavily-
subsidised steamers will be initiated at the
earliest opportunity. It is a form of hop-
over as dangerous to the national welfare as
anything that was done in France.
Reconstruction.
Premier Holman has been speaking
honeyed words to the people of Eden (Two-
fold Bay, N.S.W.) about the railway he is
going to give them so that decentralisation
may really set in and their harbor and whal-
ing town may bloom. After this fatal intel-
ligence the people of Eden had better sell
out. As the State-owned railway system is
faked, a line is no use to an outport unless
the place sets up as a State capital and sees
to it that the affair is used to promote its
interests, and isn’t merely provided to save
the. face of city politicians. The decentrali-
sation that the monopolistic city graciously
gives to its subjects is the same sort of thing
as the Parliament which a Czar or Sultan
gives to his subjects when he decentralises
himself and manages for them according to
his own.ideas. Newcastle (N.S.W.) has a
lot of railvvay which, like its harbor, is man-
aged from Sydney. Despite its strong posi-
tion. by reason of its coal, six of its 12
municipalities,, including the city itself, are
losing population. The wool and wheat busi-
ness has been forcibly diverted to Sydney,
as well as other things. The place now de-
mands local control of its harbor, and elec-
tric-trams instead of the city’s left-off steam
ruins, but what it really requires is to be
its own centre of, government. Portland
(Vic.), with a better harbor than either Mel-
bourne or Newcastle, was given a crooked
railway which didn’t connect with its
natural hinterland; railway rates fixed by
Melbourne in Melbourne’s interests ; and such
rolling stock as Melbourne didn’t want. So
Portland has about 2000 people; and its
chance of having 200.000 depends on a clean
break-awav from Melbourne and its establish-
ment as the capital of a new State. Because
of its possibilities extra precautions have to
be taken to keep it dead. Albany (W.A.)
has a far better harbor than Perth, and a
railway connecting it with Perth, which line ’
is managed by Perth for the strict purpose
of diverting traffic to Perth. The result is
that Perth has 130 000 people and Albany
3.699. It is a fading town of big possiibli-
ties. and its chief product is desolation,
though there is also a considerable crop of
gloom. By these examples Eden may esti-
mate what it can hope for when it gets its
railway (if it gets its railway), unless it
sets no for itself as the sea-outlet of the
new State of Monaro, Eastern Riverina and
East Gippsland.
«.
Parasites.
The great natural industries which are said
to be the spine and spare ribs of the country
got a poor advertisement when the Chief
Traffic Manager of N. S. Wales railways
gave evidence before the Coal Commission.
What he said wasn’t new—in fact, it is pub-
lished annually in the Railway report, but
the anti-Aus+ralian-industry panel's hate to
print it. Tins time it couldn’t well be
suppressed. What the Traffic man said was
that the raw material, or at least the raw-
materlal-for-export, industries are, with the
notable exception of wool, just parasites.
They are kept in existence by the railways
which carry the products at a loss and rob
manufacturers and others to make good the
loss. Said the Traffic gentleman :
The rates charged for the haulage of coal for
export and coal for local consumption v'ere fixed
for the Purpose of encouraging export. The object
of the Department is not to make profits, but to
encourage industry.
Raw-material industi’y of course.
If we did not quote a very low rate for the low-
grade ores we would shut down any amount of
miring that is going on in N. S. Wales. We really
quote a rate that does not pay in order to encourage
people to prospect.
In other words, to produce more freight that
doesn’t pay. At June 39. 1919, the average
rate for goods was 7s. 9d. per ton per 100
miles, which may be called the paying rate,
though, as the railways didn’t ouite pay, it
should have been more. And this was how
things worked out: —
Proper charge Subsidy to
Received. at 7s. 9d. Parasite.
Grain and flour
at 3s. 4d. .. £443,028 £1,030,040 £587,012
Hav, straw, chaff
at 3s. Bd. . . 139,256 294,336 155,080
Coal. coke, shale
at ss. Id. .. 593,810 905,317 311,507
So the tnfnl subsidv in these three classes
was £1.053.599 for the year, largely paid to
keep un nn export trade. And one of them
(coni, f 311.507) actually represented a case
of suhs’dising a purelv destructive industry—
the digging up of capital that can’t be' re-
placed. To make up for all this, general
merchandise, includin'* locally-manufactured
goods, was charged £653.769 above the
average rate: wool was overcharged £135,767
and the rest was made up of a trifle of over-
charge on which, perhaps, was leg’ti-
mate enough, for cows don’t pack tightly like
wool and can’t be judged on the basis of
wo ; ght. So the position is this:—
Wheat, "grown principally for export, and therefore
with its price fixed by cheap nigger and other com-
petition in the foreign market, has to be carried
extra-cheap ard is the boss parasite.
Tf the business is doubled and the subsidv is
charged against other things, some of them will die.
And if the loss is charged to revenue it will
mean adding about 40 per cent, to the income-tax,
and then the Treasurer will probably die through
someone throwing a brick at his head.
There are many problems involved in grow-
ing grain in a country which has to depend
on a poor and remote market through lack
of an industrial population of its own.
Royal Suicides—Picturesque and
Various.
The Allies are warned most persistently, as
a reason why the Kaiser shouldn’t be brought
to. trial, that if the thing is attempted lie
will wrap the mantle of his gloomy dignity
about him and drown himself in a pail of
water or something, and be a “demnition.
moist, unpleasant body” lying for all time
on the Allied conscience. It is characteristic
of the German self-importance that the fear
lest William should shuffle off his imperial
coil should be regarded as a restraining in-
fluence on the Big Pour and Co. They
are told that if they go too far they may be
faced with the awful prospect of a world
without William —a bare, blank, bleak,
brown world turned into a dead flat for
want of its most imposing figure. As a
matter of fact, William isn’t likely to make
that sort of dignified exit, and it wouldn’t
matter if he did. No Hohenzollern has ever
done it, or attempted it, or looked like doing
it, though Frederick the Great talked about
it. At the crisis of his fortunes he was
supnosed to have a sample of poison in one
pocket, and was known to have a quantity
of bad poetry in the other. Monarchs cer-
tainly have made the lofty exit by reason
of that, supreme pride which forbade them
to fall into the hands of the enemy. Some-
times they effected their purpose by throwing
themselves on the enemy’s spike in the front
rank of battle, and sometimes, when that
failed, by other means. Also a few, but not
so many as might, be expected, made the un-
dignified exit owing to plain, ungarnished
funk. In England Boudicca —called
Boadicea because in that way the name fits
better into rhyme—is said to have taken
poison. Richard 111., judging bv his final
remark that he would die still King of
England—he didn’t offer his valued kingdom
for a horse or any other beast —did the spike
act. They are the only fairly authentic
cases in English history. Two Scottish kings
are said to have cut things short, but they
are only dim shadows hanging themselves by
a clothes-line in the remotest back yards of
history. Mitiikidates VI., giving it up as a
bad job at the age of 72, after reigning 60
years and making the Roman State sit up
for 26 years, is a towering figure. Having
once executed 80,000 Romans in one lot, he
didn’t think it worth while to ask what the
terms would be when the luck went against
him. Otiio .of Rome and Cleopatra quitted
the scene with dignity when the game was
up, though Otiio made, more of a mess and
a. splash than Cleopatra, who was tidy and
picturesque to the last. No one ever
imagined her. as dying in soiled clothes or
with her hair in curl-rags. Saul will always
be one of the most striking landmarks in
Scripture—a tall old man who fought to a
finish and knew when he had become super-
fluous. And there is something to be said
for Theodore of Abyssinia, who might have
surrendered, and got a pension, and lived
long as a respected brown citizen in a small
villa at Hampstead, and, perhaps, being a
Christian of sorts, become a churchwarden.
Somehow no one can picture William going-
out in such a fashion as did these and many
others who could be named, though he might
shamble off the stage as Nero and Abdul
Aziz did, both being reputedly shoved hard
ti om behind. He is clumsy in movement,
backward in battle, voluminous but not
eloquent in speech, unimaginative of mind,
and so unaccustomed, by reason of his pomp,
to do things for himself after the manner of a
real campaigner, that suicide, as a thing that
has to be attended to personally, would be
out of his* line. If lie did make an end of
himself he would probably die in a heap,
ringing the bell for assistance with his
breath.
The Ghost of Conscription.
The ghost of conscription—poor, ill-
treated, miscalled conscription—was aroused
by the advent of Queensland Premier Ryan
tiom England. At various functions it
was pointed out, quite truly, that Australia,
without this so-called conscription, sent a
larger proportion of its manhood to the war
than Canada did with conscription. And
it was stated with absolute truth that if
Australia had. through conscription, sacri-
ficed a much larger proportion of its man-
hood, the result would have been almost dis-
astrous, the sacrifice being big enough
already... Which was all a silly begging of
the question. Australia should have found
at least 500.000 men, perhaps more, for tin*
orA aaX was more than it did find—sav
ArO.OOO for service in the shambles at the
front, which was all loss, and 250.000 to
make clothing, rifles, cannon, ammunition of
all sorts, to grow food for the armies and
the people of the distressed world, to make
the things for ourselves which Europe could
no longer supply, and, above all, to make
ships, and more ships, without which other,
efforts .were largely useless. That, from
the national point of view, was the profitable
end of the war—the half of it which would
have paid in great part for the other or
dead-loss half, and it would have been an
education and an industrial resurrection.
But every fool went on the theory that the
Australian couldn’t do skilled work, or
wouldn t do it, or wouldn’t be allowed bv
Ins. importers and Freetrade papers anil
union officials to do it. It was onlv the
human-meat or cannon-fodder aspect of the
case that was put to the people, who knew
that, as regards that part, they were doing
their share. And the fact hasn’t dawned
on them yet that, as regards the less spec-
tacular but eoually imnortant other part
they were the worst shirkers and most hopw
less cold-footers among the white races.
The Unspeakable and His Future,
A. O. Matviachi. Consul for Greece, writes:
T” vo " r interesting article, “A Word for John
Turk” fB. 12/(5/’I9), you ask whv the Turk should
be driven out of Europe. The answer which I vouch-
safe is “Because he has proved to be absolutely
incapable of ruling other races.”
The Turk has been a stranger in Europe, although
he held the south-eastern part for nearly 450 years.


T h i Farmers’*: Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co.of A BStfalia
The Workmen’s Compensation Act imposes heavy liabilities on Farmers and
Graziers.
The Farmers’ and Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of Australia Limited
will accept their liability for a small premium.
It is to the best interests of the Man on the Land to support this co-operative
company.
Limited
Write immediately for particulars.
Head Office: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES in VICTORIA AND SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
The country which he ruled during that time has not
progressed, but retrograded. Whenever a population
alien in religion and race was incorporated with the
Kingdom of Greece, she Jias given political and
religious equality, which her constitution guarantees.
This was proved when Thessaly was incorporated with
Greece. Twp Turks of Thessaly are sitting in the
Greek Parliament at present. More recently, when
Eastern Macedonia was annexed to Greece, the Gov-
ernment of Greece never hesitated in giving official
positions to Mohammedans when eligible; and in
Salonika, Drama and other towns of Macedonia,
Turks were elected as mayors. Only recently the
Mohammedans of Eastern Thrace have petitioned the
Peace Conference to be incorporated with Greece, in
preference to remaining part of Bulgaria.
The part of Asia Minor which is allotted to Greece
lias been from time immemorial the cradle of the
Greek race. It has never lost its Greek character.
Smyrna is called by the Turks Giaour city. All the
other European races are emigrants. . These emigrants
are the foreign element, which represents vested inter-
ests. The Turk has always shown consideration to
those in authority, and these people, on the other
hand, found them accommodating for obvious rea-
sons. Now this emigrant element is strongly opposed
to incorporation with Greece, but it does not repre-
sent the indigenous population—this population that
has suffered in the past and stood the exterminating
policy of the Turks for the last five years. The
Turk has shown consideration for General Townshend,
the defender of Kut; but how did they treat the
British prisoners? Let facts speak.
The cables which you reproduce as to what hap-
pened at Smyfna during the Greek occupation are
inspired. It can hardly be credited that the Greek
troops intentionally provoked the Turks to enable
them to retaliate. Greek troops entered the capitals
of Bulgaria and Turkey, and in both instances the
discipline was perfect. They; occupied the whole of
Thrace, both Bulgarian and Turkish, and in both
instances without any unpleasant incident. That
Greek residents of Smyrna may have retaliated in
isolated instances is not improbable; considering
their suffering-, losing all their property and perhaps
father, mother, sister or brother, it is only human
to expect it.
In answer to which :
The Bulletin' has already remarked on the Turk’s
“rotten record as a robber and murderer,” and it
did not suggest that he should be given a further
opportunity to rule other races. But it repeats that
the record of the Balkan States generally is little or
no better. The cable of the (sth inst. in reference
to the “horrible man-hunt” in Smyrna, in which
unarmed Turks were “bayoneted and flung into the
sea,” may have been inspired; on the other hand,
history would suggest that it stated facts. Even
the law-abiding Greek Consul in far-away Melbourne
opines that “it is only human to expect it”- —namely,
retaliation. Which strengthens the view that the
Greek is the wrong man to hold a mandatory over
his hereditary persecutor.
The basis of the Big Four’s policy is to do jus-
tice to the different nations dealt with. Neither
justice nor the ultimate peace of the world is
going to be served by pushing the Turk into Asia
Minor, even supposing that tremendous feat were
practicable. The Bulletin’s main point was. bow-
'■ver, contained in the last sentence of the article:
“What better administrator of the whole region
could there be, in the interests of peace, than the
United Kingdom?” That the Big- Four are turning
to this view is suggested by a cable which appeared
in the daily papers on June 20: —
The Council of Four invited the Turkish repre-
sentatives for the purpose of making a treaty with
Turkey. It is understood Turkey will be required
to renounce Constantinople. The treaty will also
give one or more of the Great Powers authority
to supervise the financial administration of Turkey.
Several Mohammedan delegations have come to Paris
and strongly protested against the partition of the
Empire; hence the decision to make a treaty respect-
ing Turkey.
One Power' is indicated as financial supervisor, or,
in plain language, suzerain of Turkey in Europe—-
Britain. Its Empire depends largely on Mohamme-
dan goodwill and trust. The Sultan is the spiritual
Kalif of Islam as much as the Pope is the spiritual
master of the Roman Catholics of the world. Islam
is fanatical in proportion as it is ignorant. The
sudden and violent kicking of Turkey across the
Bosphorus would enrage the Mohammedan world.
The expulsion of Turkey from Europe would be
a dramatic move pleasing to Greeks, Armenians,
Serbs, Bulgars and others who have suffered at bis
hands. But to leave the Turk in the power of such
people would not be any sort of justice at all. To
place him under the watchful eye and firm yet
tactful control of some modern Cromer would meet
the wishes of all but those who, now that he is
down, are filled with yearning to take it out of
his discreditable hide.
-*•
The Naval Trouble at Fremantle.
Nobody will defend the youngsters who made
trouble on the Australia as she was about
to leave Fremantle. Their action in trying
to hold the ship up after they had been
disappointed in their expectation of another
day in port was indefensible. But surely
much can be said in mitigation of their
offence. Everybody knows that it is a sort
of picnic this ship is on. Even the officers
know it. The Australia is coming home
after taking part in the greatest war that
was ever fought. The men have been look-
ing forward to the home-coming for years.
They can be forgiven if they regarded them-
selves as conquering heroes. They can be
more easily forgiven for having that idea
after their day or two of feting at I remantle
and Perth. They then lost their heads. But
to assume that they would act. similarly it
real business was under weigh is ridiculous.
On the experience of Australians in tUe war
it is unthinkable. They simply were caught
up in the entirely unusual atmosphere that
surrounded them at Premantle, and they
showed the defects —if you like to call them
defects —of the Australian character: the
“defects” that made the Diggers the great
soldiers they were in Gallipoli and Prance,
men who, impatient of orders .they don t
understand, were not to be stopped by any-
thing in carrying through those they did
understand. One after the other officers came
forward to testify that these youngsters of
the Australia had served faithfully and well
and were not vicious. It is just as might
have been expected. What they did at Pre-
mantle is no criterion of what they would
do in any other circumstances; and those
responsible for their punishment ought to
take that into account. That being so, the
sentences should be reviewed without loss
of time. The longer the delay the greater
the harm to the Australian Navy. For naval
punishments that offend Australian sentiment
must make it even more difficult than it is
to keep the Australian Navy manned by
Australians; and Commodore Dumaresq has
himself already expatiated upon the urgent
necessity of that.
♦
Randolph Bedford returns to the charge: —
Tub Bur.LF/rix (12/6/’l9), replying to me, says
“competition isn’t necessarily wasteful.” But it is.
'The Temperance and General has an expense rate of
EXPLAINED.
LITTLE BOY: “Papa, why is that statue blindfolded?”
PAPA: “Thai, my boy, is so she won’t see the crook weights we ring in on her some-
times.”
15.41 p.c. ; City Mutual, 14.54 p.c. ; Provident Life,
15.97 p.e. ; Colonial Mutual, 16.79 p.c.; Australian
Metropolitan, 18.81 p.c.; Assurance and Thrift,
36.35 p.c.; and The Australian Provident, 73.22 p.c.
These are the reasons for the nationalisation of all
forms of insurance’; the competitive system is -waste-
ful, costly and stupid. The Bulletin says, “Where
there isn’t competition there is monopoly.” Who
fears monopoly in the hands of the State? The
objection to 'merely politicians being appointed to
the management of State ownership is, of course,
sound; but the fact of Railway-Commissioner Cann
and meat-control Osborne being appointed says
merely that Holman, with all his faults, is staunch
to his pals, not that the system of State ownership is
wrong. Queensland State insurance, State meat-
shops, State stations, State produce-agency are not
managed by politicians, and the fear of “Government
monopolies being regarded as means for supplying
politicians with jobs” is merely putting up straw
men to knock them down again. The main thing
is that Queensland State Insurance Department, less
than three years old, has an expense rate nearly as
low as the long-established A.M.P. and the pro-
prietary Citizens’, which gets cheap service for the
Ordinary branch at the expense of the Industrial,
and that the expense rates of the others are from
15.41 p.c. to 73.22 p.c. These figures' are the only
arguments nationalisation requires. Ohio State in-
surance for the year ended May 15, 1918, earned
premiums of £1,888,425; and the total cost of
operation was £65,561, or 3$ p.c. In the same
State the insurance cos.’ cost of operating work-
men’s compensation was 37J p.c. In Queensland
the State office has reduced premiums by 33$ p.c.
on dwelling's and 20 p.c. on business risks a saving
of £140,000 a year to the insurers.
And again The Bulletin says that com-
petition isn’t necessarily a wasteful thing;
on the contrary, it may be a most economi-
cal thing. The A.M.P., for example not to
go outside life assurance —was enormously
improved by the union of the_ Citizens’,
Widows’ Fund and M.L.A., making at last
an office comparable with the A.M.P., and
run with great skill and energy. The
theoretic advantage of State ownership isn t
in question. Neither is the theoretic ad-
vantage of universal peace. Whether State
ownership works out well or ill depends
wholly upon the way the business is run.
When it is run badly a State monopoly is
a double curse, because, besides being bad
in itself, it may be, and is, used for the pur-
pose of general political corruption.
In the case of a Vic. prisoner lately sen-
tenced by Chief Iceberg Irvine to the lash,
the hungry Law got promptly off the mark
and had the job done bright and early, with
the result that a Labor protest failed auto-
matically. Lawson, knowing that six
months is allowed wherein to carry out such
a sentence, assumed that the flogging would
not be administered at once. So he didn’t
rush to tell the Penal Department to withhold
the performance till he had heard the depu-
tation—and then discovered that the stripes
had been administered on the day he wrote.
There was then nothing left for Lawson to do
but to “very much regret that this has
occurred.” Nothing except this: the gaol
authorities, who must do the flogging within
six months, might be debarred by regulation
from doing it within, say, two months. That
at least would give a chance to prevent a
gross miscarriage of justice.
The Canadians rioted again in England
last week—this time at Witley, where there
were a couple of nights of incendiarism.
Their best-known effort was at Kinmel Park
Camp, in Wales. A number were killed in
that affair. The Canadians fought well in
France, 1 but they were more Bolshevik
throughout than any of the Anzac troops.
Some of the names of those concerned in the
various unlieavals suggest an explanation.
Individually the citizen of foreign extraction
is often one of the best; but in bulk he is
mostly undesirable. The social and indus-
trial peace of Australia will depend a lot
on the way the Alien Immigration Restric-
tion Act is administered during the next few
years, especially in respect of persons with
names like Schmidt. -
The Repatriation Department has evidently
been studying the methods of the Institute
of Science and Hinderstry. Returned Dig-
gers who have gone through a course of
training in electroplating in Melbourne have
afterwards been glad to accept jobs as ordi-
nary laborers. It is so like the slinshod way
of the Australian politician. You teach a
man how to bake a cake, give him the in-
gredients, and then expect him to turn out
fancy dishes without an oven or a fire. If
the politician would but do his job of pro-
viding the tariff fuel, the others would soon
learn how to do the rest.
“Willie Woodbine”: One of the highest
compliments I ever heard was paid us by
a Toffiiny who was boasting about what a
hard-doer he was. When he had worked up
to top-speed he confided: “Oh —Oi be a woild
devil. Oi be! Oi ought ha’ been a bleedin’
Anzac!”
A small mystery is that “Australian
millionaire’s son,” aged-13 years, who arrived
in Capetown as a stowaway, and, it is
cabled, is being brought back. Millionaires
are so numerous in Australia, and are so
casual about their herds of sons, that this
sort of thing is always happening. One of
them unset the office ash-barrel this morning
out of pure devilment, and another, a youth
who hasn’t been home at the palace for a
week, has been selling stolen dogs in the
next suburb, and spending the profits on
cigarettes.
The Duke of Westminster, whose wfit'e
divorced him last week, is among the few
who have been served with a citation on
the day of their wedding. The Duke was
one of several co-res. in a suit which origina-
ted at the Mount Nelson Hotel, during the
S. African War. King Edward stopped it,
as it involved too many of his friends, and
the lady’s husband nailed her later on with
a new admirer altogether. Tie got a D.S.O.
for work with armored cars during the
Senussi campaign.
Edward medals have just been put aside
in London for two Mt. Morgan (Q.) miners,
Michael Fogarty and Frank Duller. In July.
1918, Fogarty and his mate Fred Joga had
lit three charges in the 950 ft level. While
Fogarty was carrying a box of fracteur out
of the way Joga stayed to re-light the third
charge, from which the “spit” had fallen.
Somehow one shot exploded prematurely and
scattered ore in all directions. Fogarty
yelled for help, and, followed by Frank Dul-
ler, succeeded in getting Joga away before
the other shots fired. He'was already ■so
badly injured, however, that lie died* the
same night. But that didn’t lessen the per-
formance of his rescuers.
The first air-flight across the North Atlan-
tic—the most inhospitable bit of water which
carries large traffic—was done in 16J hours.
The first steamship to cross the Atlantic
took 22 days. That was in 1833, and the
ship was built and engined in Canada, whose
people had even then got tired of depend-
ing wholly on the production of raw material.
It took 76 years to get the record down to
106| hours. So the new machine begins
about 90 hours ahead of where the old
one left off. The very newest surface mon-
ster being 907 ft. long and 100 ft. broad, there
are very few harbors that can hold her, which
limits her usefulness. The first air liner,
having no harbor ready for her, cast anchor
off-handedly in an Irish bog.
From the report of a Sydney meeting of
unemployed soldiers (wharf-workers, other-'
wise carriers of imported goods off foreign
ships) :
One speaker urged that a ship he chartered to
take the unemployed back to Europe to help in the
work of reconstruction. Another suggested that if
work couldn’t be found in Australia for returned
men, then another war should be started, so that the
unemployed could be absorbed.
Just now. Sydney is said to want 12,000 new
houses and many country towns are worse off
in proportion. There is an unfinished North
Coast railway and a city railway. The
land is short of ships and coal and* gas and
a match of its own making to light its pipe
with. In fact, Australia has so much work
Undone that it has spent about £60,000,000
in eight months for the products of other
people’s work. Yet the breakdown of the
political or industrial organisation is so
absolute that with all these oceans of work
staring it in the face it can’t get work. The
case suggests a robust lion starving in the
midst of bullocks for want of someone to
kill an animal and carry him to it and show
him how to eat it.
William Francis, lately an aspirant to
the Vic. Leg. Council, has caused some
annoyance to the National Federation and
the A.W.N.L. by questioning the political
morality of these bodies in making a pre-
selection for the South-Eastern seat, seeing
that it was contested entirely oy
Nationalists. And Francis is right. The
Nat. Fed. was founded ostensibly to
win the war and keep Labor at bay, the
selection methods of the latter party being
adopted “as a matter of self-protection.”
The Nationalists, with the war won and
no Labor opposition in the field, apparently
got busy in this election with the frank pur-
pose of “taking out of the hands of the elec-
tors the choice of their representative”—
the very thing they have bitterly reprobated
in the Labor party. One result of the con-
test will be that in future little love will
be lost between the ripe old Liberals and
true-blue Conservatives of the N.F. and
A.W.N.L. and their brethren of the Farmers’
Union.


On Choosing Diamonds.
Diamonds are largely bought, on trust, and it behoves the purchaser, whether expert
or novice, to select from an establishment of proved dependability in Diamond-
selling. The slightest flaw will discount the value of a Diamond as an investment.
STEWART DAWSON QUALITY IN DIAMONDS
is the criterion of value throughout the Commonwealth, and our long-standing
reputation is a guarantee of confidence for every buyer.
OUR TEN HUGE ESTABLISHMENTS
are daily devoting their Ready Cash resources to nr wide their clients with the
World’s Best Values in Precious Stones, Jewellery, Silverware, etc.
ALL DIAMONDS SET IN REAL PLATINUM.
Any of these designs can be purchased at any of the Stewart Dawson Establish-
ments. Catalogue sent Post Free if desired.
Stewart Dawson & Co.
(Aust.) Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth, Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch, Dunedin.
Also Regent Street and Hatton Garden, London.
K923—Handsome
New Design
Finest Quality
Diamond Cluster
Ring, Real
Platinum and
18ct. Gold Set-
ting, £35.
K917—5-stone
Diamond, Set Real
Platinum and
18ct. Gold,
£l2/10/-
Ml 00—Handsome
Diamond Bow
Brooch, £5O.
K6ll—Dainty
Pearl and Diamond
Set Brooch, 15ct.
Gold & Platinum,
£3/15/-
We stock a very fine selection of Diamond
let Watches, similar to illustration.
Purest Diamonds, and fully-jewelled,
movements.
Set Brace-
Guaranteed
high-grade
Klo2l—All Diamond Bow Brooch, set
Platinum and i "of. Gold, £4O.
IW
K677—Fine Diamond and Platinum Brooch,
£B/10/-
POLITICAL
POINTS
From an old gallery hand: —■
At clubs in Melbourne credence is given to a
rumor (Peacock probably set it going) that Hughes
is coming back with .an indemnity credit in his
pocket, and will on the strength of it endeavor to
secure a new lease of power from the country in
November. A hundred millions sterling is spoken of
as the size of the indemnity, and it is suggested that
the British Government will help Australia by first
of all deducting from the total the Commonwealth’s
foreign war borrowings and establishing credit for
the balance. That Hughes has some surprise on
which to bid for popularity and secure immense
publicity is regarded as sure.
The Inter-State Labor Conference last,
week decided that the men who were thrown
out of the party for advocating conscription
must stay out for ever and ever. Arbitra-
tion is still part of the Labor policy; but
the Inter-State Conference didn’t say that
men who have fought arbitration and are
still trying to bring it into contempt shall
not belong to the party. Apparently the
only unforgivable offence with tne people
who have collared the Labor machine is to
do something unpleasant to the- Hun.
Whether the so-called conscription was
right or wrong, this is certain: in denying
the right of every man to advocate his own
personal view on any subject put to a
referendum, the Labor party aimed a blow
at the very basis of democratic principles.
A referendum is an appeal over the heads
of parties and Parliaments. And when
Labor refuses to permit its members free-
dom to use their own judgment on a referen-
dum it says in effect, “Party shall rule.
The people shall not.” And that is the
greatest crime of all against democracy.
Brookfield, M.L.A., barracking at Sydney
Labor Conference for the abolition of univer-
sal military training in Australia
They were told that somebody would run away
with the country. Why didn’t somebody run away
with England during the years she did not have
conscription ?
Well, apart from the difference in liability
to invasion between a densely-populated
small country like England and a practically-
empty big country like Australia, England
did rush hotspur for conscription at the
first toot of the battle-horn. Yet even that
wouldn’t have saved her and us from woeful
trouble if other already-conscripted coun-
tries hadn’t been standing pat while slie got
her gun ready.
As the result of a recent day’s work in
the Inter-State Labor Conference Theodore’s
proposal that the Federal Parliament should
have power to readjust State boundaries and
do other very necessary things was “referred
to a committee.” It was the biggest ques-
tion brought forward, and it got the cold
shoulder. Some serious financial problems
were also left unfinished and others were
hung up. But the demand for the instant
release of P. Freeman was carried, and the
proposal that youths and flappers of 18
should be full-blown voters as in the Bol-
shevik constitution was put on the party
platform unanimously. The desire to get
the immature boy and flapper into power is
a cardinal feature of Labor policy nowadays.
And if he is once in it will be mighty hard
to get him out without his own consent,
especially if the first Boy Ministry buttresses
its position by reducing the voting age to 15
and disqualifying all electors over 50.
The Mount Morgan mine has “taken the
knock.” The price of copper went down to
nearly the pre-war level, but as wages didn’t
go down the old price didn’t pay. Then the
foreign market was rather inaccessible, and
for want of Australian factories there was
practically no local market. Finally the sea-
men’s strike made it impossible to get the
ore to Port Kembla to extract the gold
contents that might have kept things going
for a while. Mount Morgan employed
1700 men at the mine itself, and
these were the support of 12,250 people, in
Australia the average Federal and State
revenue, last year was £7 per head, so these
people, living on one solitary industry, sup-
plied about £85,750 of public income, and
carried a heap of public debt. That is why
Protectionists want to see our works of all
sorts here, instead of in Europe, Asia or
America, with a fatted importer acting as in-
termediary. A new self-supporting industry
which employs 1700 Australians can main-
tain 12,250 new Australian taxpayers, who
are also contributors to the support of Aus-
tralian railways aud customers of the Aus-
tralian farmer. Which is different from
importing the goods and letting the 12,250
people pay their taxes to a foreign Govern-
ment and buy their food of a foreign farmer.
Before the N. S. Wales State Labor Con-
ference tore itself up in disorder it fixed its
mining-reform plank. The matter was de-
fined by P. Brookfield, M.L.A., whose plan
was accepted, as follows : Thirty hours work
per week; payment by time—not results;
confiscation of the mines, management in
part at least by the employees; grant of £750
YESTERDAY AND TO-MORROW .
to every miner who shows signs of phthisis,
and life pension of £156 if the disease devel-
ons. It is a kindly idea—indeed, any
humane person would like to give £17,500
to the miner who shows signs of phthisis
and £8750 to every other miner to avert
the disease; and he would gladly see Brook-
field, who isn’t a coal-mining man, give Jiis
domestic servant or other employee £1750
whenever he or she shows symptoms of any
complaint whatsoever. But all these kind-
hearted propositions should be accompanied
by an estimate of the cost. The want of
an estimate, has spoiled many a good scheme
for extracting sunshine out of cucumbers
and cyaniding the rainbow.
Premier Ryan, of Queensland, addressing
the Celtic Club in Melbourne
God alone knows what would have happened if
conscription had been adopted in this country. It
was said at the time that Australia would be dis-
«a," s s'vsSi.'
had disgraced herself?
In this lovely specimen of Ryanic reason-
in uiis luveiy opamieu Xl - ya v, t
mg the democratic principle of conscription
is scoffed at whilst slackers and pro-
is scoireu at, wuiist siduicis ™
Germans, w!ho defeated the democratic pnn-
ciule are congratulated on the valor shown
hv Australia’s volunteer forces in the war.
Billjim saved the credit of this country by
volunteering so numerously and fighting so
voluntee g sentiment of Australia
well. But lf . Lmlk wb
defeated 11 conscriDtiOTi the credit of Aus-
defeated consciipuon tie c _ ,
IraLa would not have been saved at , a
the Huns might now have been smiting
Queensland with a disdainful mailed fist.
If Bruce Smith succeeds next Federal
session in having his motion carried to
transfer the Federal capital to Sydney, Vie.
State politicians will not grieve, for the
Federal corroboree has overshadowed the
local moot. Certainly Vic. disapproves of
Canberra ; but it is much less indisposed to
let Sydney have its heart’s desire. Frank
Clarke, Minister of Lands, advocates a Vic.
referendum on the question at the next
State general election.
This is how Melbourne Age put it in the
most recent wail about the decline of agri-
cultural settlement:—
Victorian Population.
1912. 1917. Increase.
Town . . . . 845,180 901,800 06,620
Decrease.
Rural .. .. 529,901 499,204 30,697
And this is how the Age might have put it
but didn’t:—•
Victorian Population.
1912. 1917. Increase.
Bloated City . . 628,430 708,240 79,810
Decrease.
Other towns . . 216,750 193,560 23,190
Rural . . . . 529,901 499,204 30,697
In Victoria, as in N.S.W. and S.A., the
trouble isn’t only the .rush of people from
the country to the towns, but also the rush
from the small towns to the One Big
Bloated Capital. Neither of the three States
has enough towns, the places where manufac-
turing is done; therefore they have to im-
port manufactured goods at foreign pro-
fiteers’ prices, while in some lines they
have a superfluity of agriculture. But each
of them has too much One Big Bloated
City.
Politics are dramatic in Queensland. The
Government has resumed three more big sta-
tions, giving the public lOU in payment for
the properties and stock. This makes 16
stations acquired mostly with the public
lOU. Whether the sale of stock from these
places goes to reduce the lOU or is treated
as revenue while the lOU is left in full
bloom no one seems to know, and not many to
care. Now the Chillagoe enterprise has been
acquired by the Government, also in return
for the public IOU; and if the lOU is
judiciously manipulated even Chilagoe may
show a profit on paper—till the cold breath
of suspicion blows on the lOU. The Queens-
land railways, which were showing a small
occasional profit before the Ryan Govern-
ment took office, exhibited last year (to
June 30, 1918) a record loss of £1,100,000.
which was covered in various ways. This
year, though charges have been again raised,
there is talk of a loss of £1,400,000. So the
lOU will have to get another move on.
However, strikes are going on as usual, and
the Bolsheviks are active, and the pubs keep
open late, and—why worry about small
things like bills and bankruptcy?
j n co ] c ] reality the Melbourne Royal Com-
mission which is investigating the Wharf
Laborers’ grievances is asked to suggest a
satisfactory method of dividing seven men’s
work amonf 10 men without hurting some-
ones reelings. Inis while practically all
the interesting technical work of the Com-
Ss
Many an aitisan in _Milwaukee, _Littsbm o
and Detroit earns 15 dols per day; but,
then, the L.S. has a tariff that encourages
h;o . lllv m PV p lnnp a industries and
developed industries and discourages
mere beast-of-burden jobs like wharf-
lmrmin!,
,
Bitter allegations are made to the effect
that his Excellency the Misfit Gilruth, who
was Pushed oat °l the N - Territory, is now
earmn? his £1750 a year and travelling
expenses wandering over the world to study
‘‘ nodul( ’s in beef.” It was one of the early
Labor Governments which loaded up the
Territory with an Excellency, and bought
a su jt e an <i a peacock throne and a
golden umbrella and a jade fiy-whisk and a
salute of 101 pea-rifles and a couple of sub-
jeits. Now Andrew Fisher, the creator of
all this glory, is starving in a marble slum
in London with £SUOO a year, and the Excel-
lent being lie created hunts on full pay for
lumps in meat. But when his term expires
it is understood that he will be provided for
with a £lOOO-a-year job in the newly-invented
Bureau of Science and Hinderstry. It is a
tradition of diplomacy that Excellencies have
continuous employment, so when a British
Governor finishes' his term in one Dominion
he is shifted to another fill he is superannu-
ated. But Australia, having only two depen-
dencies —Papua and the N.T. —is short of
palaces to shift them to and has to manu-
facture dignified billets. When the claimant
is a lawyer he can always lie put on the
Bench, but when he is only a lay Barnacle
the position is difficult.
Dear B., —Now that the war has been won
and the world made safe for democracy,
what about doing something to make Democ-
racy safe for the world ? —Yours, A. Moline.
A wharfies’ strike was the first recorded
industrial hold-up in Australia. It happened
in Sydney in 1537, and the blackguards
demanded as much as 4s. per day. No
wonder the owners said, in a manifesto, that
the strikers were conspirators who aimed at
the destruction of ‘‘colonial” progress!
Sachse, who is Acting-President of the
Vic. Leg. Council, and is making a bold bid
for the real job for six years, has sent out
a circular to members and Ministers, invit-
ing support. Robinson replied bluntly that
he intended to nominate Manifold. If Mani-
fold wins (as he probably will) BaillieU will
succeed him as unofficial leader of the House.
Replying to a protest against the destruc-
tion or thereabouts of the fellmongery indus-
try, chiefly through Government action in
allowing the export of greasy wool, Prime
Minister Watt lately disclaimed all respon-
sibility—“the wool had been sold to Britain
in its greasy state.” No doubt. But who
was the unpatriotic Australian that sold it?
The contract was made during the war.
when Britain had enough to do without
scouring wool. In fact, She had more than
enough ; and it wasn’t the grease she wanted.
He would be a slow Minister who would
lose an opportunity of saying that “the
Government is fully alive to the necessity
for fostering primary production” ; but gen-
erally that is as far as the pifller gets. Vic.’s
Agriculture Minister Oman passed off the
aged gag lately to a Geelong branch of the
Farmers’ Union, when asked to explain why
meat is piling up in cool storage while high
prices are charged to the Australian public.
"The men on the land are not getting the
high prices at which their produce is sold to
the public,” be told them, and left it at
that. If people like Oman would help the
primary producer to de-foster or demobilise
or demolish the parasitic middleman, they
wouldn’t have to worry so much about the
fostering.
The Speck’s mercantile community is
alarmed lest the threatened withdrawal of
the Shaw-Savill steamboats from the
London-to-Hobart run should leave Tasmania
wholly at the mercy of the inter-State ship-
ping cos. operating from Melbourne and Syd-
ney as distributing centres. If Launceston
and other northern Tas. shippers could be in-
duced to send their exports to Hobart for
overseas Shipment, it might be worth the
while of the direct boats to continue making
Tasmania a port of call; but the 150 miles
of railway haulage across the island and
the northern feeling that “it is undesirable
to concentrate trade at Hobart” will pro
bably give the Shaw-Savill people (or the
Shipping Ring) the excuse they seem to be
looking for, either to raise freight charges
between London and Hobart, or pull their
boats off the run and enable the inter-State
cos. to raise freights. The Speck’s mercan-
tile people seem likely to get an extra-strong
dose of their favorite Private Enterprise
medicine in any case, Still, it may help
them to the obvious fact that an
island State that doesn’t own and control its
shipping lines must be either self-contained
or at the mercy of those shippers.
The impression grows with succeeding
revelations that if the sea-Hun had had real
confidence like the land-Hun he might in
1916 have finished the British fleet and
empire and annexed Australia.. The Bull
navy was trained to the minute; but so
was the Aztec army when Cortez came along.
With the British craft the decks seem to
have been the weak point. This didn’t
matter in the days of primitive guns, when
vessels lay close and plugged each other
with shot horizontally. It was the sides
that counted then. But the five-mile shot
which is the size of a cow goes up and comes
down, not perpendicularly but at a steep
angle, and in a long-range battle it is more
likely to land on the deck than anywhere
else. One Hun shell dropping squarely on
the deck proved capable of sending ‘ship
and crew up-like a volcano, while the British
shell dropped similarly on Fritz produced
no such effect. Had the Hun, in addition
to his built-up skill, possessed the sublime
self-confidence that is born of centuries of
success, he might have annexed Australia
that exciting day off Jutland.
THE WAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We loved too well, in the old fields,
We thought too well under old trees;
The cobwebs covered our brown shields,
The tame wolf snuffed at our knees.
We dreamed too well by the red fire
And visions came in the clear night;
And how would it be a man’s desire
To break a brother in fight ?
Now who will hear when the horn blows?
Oh, deaf as the stones of death were we;
And there was laughter among our foes
When none went to the trysting tree.
Was none would fight that day on moss,
In woods nor spear nor helmet Shone;
But One went by would carry a cross
That He might die thereon.
It was blowing of horns for God’s love!
It was lifting of arms five hundred strong!
To the hill of Calvary, far above,
We went with a man’s song.
It was there that we fought for an old nail,
It was there we strove for a thorn crown
To die that the world might not fail
Of the hope God wrote down.
There was one hope, there was one pride;
And what was there else for men to do?
Would ye make a mock of the Crucified
Who died for the good they knew ?
N.S.IV.
GEORGE STREET.


LABOR’S NEW FRIEND.
IMPORTED LABOR-LEADER WITH THE AXE: “You leave the job to me. I’ll settle somebody’s hash before I’m finished.”


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
Registered
bhas;
■v /
Brand.
Producers of Lead in tlie following forms —
Refined Lead, Corroding Lead, Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated),
Super-refined Lead, Chemical Lead.
Also of— 1
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated), Spelter,
and the following Alloys and Metallic Products—
Antimonial Lead, Linotype Metal, Litharge (Industrial and Assay),
Bearing Metals, Leaded Zinc Pigments, Blue Powder.
Purchasers on a Specially Favorable Tariff of Silicious Silver-Lead Ores, Slags, etc.,
containing: Silver and Lead. Lead Drosses. Zinc Drosses.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE—
H. L. SHACKELL. Secretary.
LONDON OFFICE: PINNERS HALL. AUSTIN FRIARS, E.C. 2
' A. .1. SMTTH. London Secretary.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY—
R. N. KIRK (Agent).
ADELAIDE OFFICE: 62 BROOKMAN’S BUILDING, ADELAIDE—
A. W. LEWTS (Agent).
SMELTING WORKS. PORT PIRIE. S.A.
COKE WORKS. BELLAMBI. N.S.W.
“PIONEER' Leather Belting
The most efficient and economical power transmitter.
SO LF. . .
MAKERS,
J. C. LUDOWICI m SON LTD.
PIONEER WORKS, 117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
ELECTRIC STEEL
“ THE STEEL OF THE FUTURE.”
We make a Feature of Specially Heat-treated Steel Castings for Ore
Crusher and Rock Breaker Parts. Battery and Mill Liners. Stamper
Shoes and Dies, Cams, Heads, Tappets, Ring Dies. Tramway Tyres.
Toughened Steel Truck Wheels. We can supply any quality hitherto
imported.
ALL stages or MANUFACTURE under modern scientific control.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.,
Telegraphic Address: “Electric Steel.” ALEXANDRIA, SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Western Australian Bank -
Net To Re- * Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Mar., 1912.. 35,349 20 p.c.= 25,000 10,349 651,984
Sept., 1912.. 36,488 20 „ ~ 25,000 11,488 663,472
Mar., 1913.. 37,404 20 „ ~ 25,000 12,404 675,876
Sept. 1913.. 33,652 20 „ ~ 25,000 8,652 684,528
Mar.’ 1914.. 34,907 20 „ ~25,000 9,907 694,435
Sept., 1914.. 29,955 20 „ „ 25,000 4,955 699,390
Mar., 1915.. 27,488 20 ~,, 25,000 2,488 701,878
Sept., 1915.. 27,209 20 „ ~ 25,000 2,209 704,087
Mar., 1910.. 28,753 20 „ ~ 25,000 3,753 707,840
Sept., 1916.. 27,140 20 „ „ 25,000 2,140 709,980
Mar., 1917.. 28,390 20 ~,, 25,000 3,390 713,370
Sept., 1917.. 27,716 20 ~,,25,000 2,716 716,086
Mar., 1918.. 28,253 20 ~ ~25,000 3.253 719,339
Sept., 1918.. 29,121 20 ~,,25,000 4,121 723,460
Mar., 1919.. 29,560 20 „ ~25,000 4,560 725.020
This bank is now 78 years old, having got
into business a dozen years after Westralia
was proclaimed an independent colony. As
the West developed the concern grew slowly,
and after gold began to glitter it tasted its
first boom. But the glory of the Golden
West soon faded, and the State’s pioneer
bank has now developed nerves. It cer-
tainly has had its full share of troubles.
For two seasons in succession the wheat
crops were little better than a failure,
and last season promises to pan out at only
about eight bushels, or a gross return of £1
14s. Bd., to the acre. Some farmers are
giving up, others turning to sheep; so the
area under crop will be less this year. The
recent drought affected the pastoral industry,
the gold outlook steadily grows worse, while
timber and fruit people are still waiting for
ships. Thus one way and another the West-
ralian Bank has an uncomfortable large
crowd leaning on it, and the directors have
had “a very anxious time” watching their
securities. Further, while the West dkl
more than its bit by sending a greater pro-
portion of its wealth-producers to the war
than the eastern States, it has not shared in
the war spendings to the same extent. Nor
has it benefited proportionately, from war
prices for its products. But it will cer-
tainly get its full whack of the war bill.
The Westralian Bank lias also been hit
by competition. Go back only 10 years and
compare the deposits of the various banks
operating in the State: —
Bank. 1909. 1919.
Westralian .. .. £1,944,019 £2,832,122
National . . . . 506,871 1,018.296
Union.. .. .. 1,133,773 1,153,224
Wales.. .. .. 522,489 731,870
Commercial of Aus. . . 353,468 429,918
Australasia . . . . 482,346 ' 715,885
Royal . . . . . . 47,634
Commonwealth Bank.. —■ 2,044,804
£8,973,753
What Government money is in those figures
is not ascertainable; and that information
would be very illuminating in the case of
the Westralian Bank. But whereas total
deposits have expanded by 81 p.c. since
1909, the Westralian Bank has increased its
deposits by only 45 .S p.c. Meantime the
National has got hold of twice as much of
the State’s money as it had 10 years ago,
and the Commonwealth Bank has not only
intruded but has also grabbed the whole of
the State Government business.
The old bank badly wants more patronage;
it is not handling enough of the public’s
money. Look at this comparison :
Liabilities.
Mar.,’o9. Mar., 14. Mar.,’l9.
Notes .. .. £121,187 £12,913 £11,565
Bills, etc 172,175 120,423 63,837
Free deposits .. 994,566 1,361,349 1,523.593
Fixed deposits . . 919,167 1,243,584 1,396,766
Assets.
Liquid assets .. 968,591 1,216,475 1,040,642
Advances . . . . 1,842,512 2,413,229 2,879,699
Premises . . .. 65,000 78,000 78,440
Paid capital is a quarter of a million, and
reserves amount to £728,020; total share-
holders’ funds, £978,020. At March 31
last the bank owed the public £2,995,761.
So for every £ of shareholders’ funds the
management was working on only £3 Is. 3d.
of the public’s money. If the Common-
wealth Government’s deposits to help the
bank finance War Loan, wheat, etc., were
extracted, it would probably be found that
the outside money was several shillings under
£3. The unusually large proportion of
shareholders’ funds in the bank, of
course, means safety for creditors; but
it also means that the bank’s earning
powers are limited. And just at pre-
sent, owing to abnormal conditions, the
management is trading to the limit of its
resources; of the bank’s total liabilities to
the public only 34.7 p.c. is held liquid. But,
again, War Loan and wheat advances pro-
bably have a big influence on the figures.
Six months ago several shareholders sug-
gested opening up in Melbourne and, if
possible, in London. After consideration
the directors now say that the bank cannot
afford such a move. They don’t put it
quite that way, but they state that “it would
not be in the best interests of the bank at
present” and go on to talk of high rents and
expensive managers. The chairman also
stated that “unless capital was considerably
increased the suggested extensions could not
be thought of.” That settled the matter,
so far as shareholders were concerned; but
as already pointed out it is not new capital
that is required, but a fat lot of new deposits,
along with a change in the State’s condition
to assist in the liquidation of assets. How-
ever, so far there is still an unbroken string
of 20 p.c. divs. in the first table, but the
margin of profits left after handing out
divs. is slender. Incidentally, the 20 p.c.
is not all it looks; a lot of the capital
was issued at a heavy premium, and to some
people the return is under 8 p.c. p.a.
* * * *
The Melbourne Trust, Ltd.:—•
Dec., Profit. Dividends. Reserves.
1908 .. £23,616 8 p.c. =£22,777 £4,650
Accumulated profits on sales, £148,709 103,359
1909 . . 25,183 20 p.c. = 66,944 121,598
Book profit on purchase of Mercantile
Bank Assets Co., £25,782 .. .. 150,380
Other assets written up, £145,205 .. 295,585
Speiial distribution of assets in 4 p.c.
debentures, £246,559 .. .. 49,026
1910 .. 26,289 61 p.c. = 18,492 56,823
1911 .. 34,910 8J „ „ 24.656 67,077
1912 .. 38.009 -81 „ „ 24,056 80,430
1913 .. 34,717 81 ~ „ 24,656 90,491
Premiums on new shares, £1032 .. 91,523
1914 . . 24,970 8 p.c. = 24,000 92,493
Written off. £18,721 .. ~ .. -73,772
1915 .. 15,522 5 p.c. = 15,000 74,294
1916 .. 23,184 6 „ „ 18,000 79,478
1917 .. 33,441 8 „ „ 24,000 88,919
1918 .. 40,528 10 „ „ 30,000 ? Qfi Q ,»
Vote to Superannuation Fund, £2500 J yD,y4 ‘
The directors say that the net profit for the
year was £37.207, and shareholders get an
8 p.c. div. and a bonus of 2 p.c.; but it is to
be “distinctly understood” that the bonus is
something extra. Though a 10 p.c. distribu-
tion on £300,000 of capital calls for £30,000,
shareholders receive only £23,500, the co. —
an English registration—paving income-tax
on their behalf during recent years. As the
carry-forward balances have not been affected
by any cut for taxes, The Bulletin con-
cludes that the amounts required for divi-
dend tax are clipped before showing the “net
profit.” So in the above table the full
extent of the dividends is given and the
amount of tax added to the profits. Tack-
ing the £6500 tax to the £37,267 shown by
the directors gives £43,767, and by deducting
£3239 loss on realisations, the record profit
of £40,528 shown in the table appears to be
the actual net result achieved last year.
• * • » • •
The Melbourne Trust started out in 1903
as a keeper of assorted derelicts, which in-
cluded the remains of the City Bank of Mel-
bourne, the Federal Bank of Australia and
the English and Australian Bank, all of
which had been nursed by other “trust” con-
cerns prior to this co.’s advent. Everything
went so well that the co. was soon able to
unload the debenture debt of £392,485 with
which it started. Further, several lines in-
serted in the table explain the effect the
good times had on the book-value of the
assets, and how bonus debentures for £246,559
were passed out to balance the writing-up.
This shows how the old and new debenture
issues were repurchased, and, incidentally,
the profit or loss made on realisations over
13 years:—
Re- Profit on Profit
deemed Purchase on Pro-
Debentures during of De- perty
Outstanding. Year, bentures. Sales.
Dec., 1906. . £189,579 £72,804 £648 £31,274
~ 1907.. 150,693 34,886 213 15,545
„ 1908.. 89,241 61,452 110 11,519
„ 1909.. Nil 89,241 7 47,435
„ 1910.. 193,953 52,606 1654 1,874
„ 1911.. 151.057 42,896 1838 3,624
„ 1912.. 93,882 57,175 443 12,644
„ 1913.. 92.970 912 49 7,677
' „ 1914.. 37,847 55,123 691
„ 1915.. 38,087 2,127
„ 1916.. 38,087 3,767
Loss.
„ 1917.. 38.087 1.866
„ 1918.. 38,087 3,239
The £38,087 of debentures outstanding during
the past few years is the issued portion of a
4| p.c. lot of £200,000 put out in 1914.
Lately the management has been hastening
the unloading of its weaker securities, prob-
ably because it realises that another equally
favorable opportunity may not be sighted for
many years, and it was content to incur' the
loss of £3239 on book values last year rather
than take the risk of waiting. The directors
state that the house-and-land type of security
now represents only about £40,000 of the
quarter-million or so which is the present
book value of the old derelicts’ assets.
Besides nursing and unloading the old
properties, the Melbourne Trust nowadays
has its own investments. The distribution of
its interests is shown in this compar.son:—
Old Cos.’ New Purchasers’ Cash,
Assets. Investments. Balances. etc.
1906. . £417,586 £8,034 £111,045 £26,664
1909.. 267,928 20,363 113,334 59,439
1916.. 329,207 68,480 58,976 1,485
1917.. 296.232 90,174 68,128 5,243
1918.. 253,571 113,680 78,048 30,369
Of the £113,680 of new investments xxd less
than £52,050 is in War Loan. Whereas 15
years ago it looked as though the co.’s future
depended almost wholly on profit from, sales,
nowadays, in addition to returns from its own
investments, it is collecting interest by selling
properties on long-deferred terms, and is
apparently doing well at present out of work-
ing station properties and a sugar plantation
in Fiji. The crowd who got into the con-
cern early have had a vorgeous time. The
latest balance-sheet shows gross assets of
£475,665, but since the old properties are
included at a 1910 valuation and the new
investments are shown “at or under,” the
actual present-day value is no doubt much
greater. Whether they will be worth as
much in years to come The Bulletin
cannot guess. Including the £38,087 -of de-
bentures the Trust owes £52,721, but £3136
represents old bank notes which are not likely
to be cashed in now. However, including
these as a liability, at Dec. 31 there were
net assets with a book value of £422,947 to
represent £300,000 of capital.
* * * *
The Western Australian Insurance
Co..—
Reserves
. (including
Reserves for
Towards Unexpired
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Risks).
1913.. £1,233 5 p.c. = £5OO £733 £473
1914.. 215 Nil 215 688
1915.. 20,512 6 p.c.= 3,600 16,912 17,600
1916.. 26,963 6„„ 3,600 23,363 40,963
1917. .183,332 7,,,. 4,200 179,132 220,095
1918. .378,287 10 „ ~ 10,000 368,287 588,382
Towards the end of August last the directors
published an interim account of the co.’s
operations for the year ended June 30, 1918.
But they had been pursuing risks in so
many of the world’s side-lanes that over
nine months had passed before all the figures
had been got together for shareholders. The
preliminary statement anticipated about
£1,100,000 of net premiums and £725,000 of
losses. Actual results were even better :—-
Net Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1913.. £1,790 £22 £874 1.2 p.c. 43.8 p.e.
1914.. 3,519 770 3,429 21.8 „ 97.4 „
1915.. 52,061 17.424 16.074 33.# ~ 30.8 „
1916.. 180,716 116.763 40,118 64.6 „ 22.2 „
1917.. 727,868 522,217 27,095 71.7 „ 3.7 „
1918. 1,142,001 739,044 48,132 64.7 „ 4.2 „
It was a wild gamble, of course. While all
insurance men were loyally chinking glasses
to the British Navy and declaring it unbeat-
able. their enthusiasm sometimes froze when
marine insurance business was being hawked
round. The little Westralian Insurance—
at least it used to be tiny—lashed out from
the beginning. Chairman S. W. C.opley, who
had been connected with another sort of
gamble in Westralia. established himself in
London in the early days of the war, and the
premium figures indicate how he made the
pace. To say the least, the co. has had
amazing gamblers’ luck. Viewing the com-
plete list of U-boats sinkings during the two
years to June 30 last, it seems almost in-
credible that this co. could have shown over
half a million surplus for the period. And,
incidentally, it was all done with the back-
ing of a paid capital of only £lOO,OOO.
The handy £378.287 shown in the table
as profit for the year may not be all
true profit, for when the accounts closed
there were still a number of unexpired risks
to be provided for. Assuming that the co.
should hold 40 p.c. of the year’s net pre-
miums in reserve for possible claims,
£450,000 was about the minimum required
to be kept handy at June 30. There was
already £200,000 in reserve lying untouched
from the previous balance, and out of cur-
rent profits the management set aside a fur-
ther £300.000, making £500,000 to meet pos-
sible claims. The tin-fish were making
things very willing for three or four months
after the accounts closed ; but during that
period the management no doubt collected
another large volume of business, which, on
account of Wilhelm’s collapse, must have
been very profitable.
It is impossible’ to tell until the current
year’s accounts are available exactly how
much the Westralian Insurance has made
out of the war. If this year’s rev-
enue is sufficient to meet all claims, then con-
siderably over £600.060 is the reward for
pluck, or whatever you care to call it. Capi-
tal on June, 1916, was £60,000 (240,000
shares of ss. each). When the risks ex-
panded out of proportion to this capital a
further 160.000 shares paid to ss. were put
out, making the paid capital £lOO,OOO. De-
ducting all known liabilities, and also the
year’s dividend of 10 p.c„ there were at
June 30 last net assets of £688.382. d'stri-
bulod m this way: Government securities,
£211,234; other investments and mortgages,
£lOO 016; cash and sundry creditors,
£365,878; with the remaining £2254 repre-
sented by furniture. So if the current year
lias worked out all right the co. is in a won-
derfully strong position to meet the future.
Besides building up its financial resources, it
has established a world-wide organisation.
There are now branches in all States and
half a dozen cities in the U.E., and agencies
in practically every country where marine
insurance is being written. So, tnough
there must inevitably be a big falling-off
in premiums, the management is in a posi-
tion to pick up odds and ends all over the
earth —while_ only five years ago its oper-
ations were' restricted to one State of the
Commonwealth! The co. is now launching
out into life business “in limited fields.”
This is according to English precedent; but
the taking of life business by fire and marine
offices has never been popular in Australia
because of the enormous strength of the
Australian mutual life offices.
Aerated Bread Co. (Sydney), which
began in 16-10 with £17,965 of its capital
represented by goodwill
Written
Profits. Dividends. Off. Deficit.
Mar., 1912. . £3461 10 p.c. = £1750 £439 £12,510
Sept., 1912.. 3296 10 „ „ 1750 228 11.192
Mar., 1913.. 2444 8 „ „ 1400 228 10.376
Sept., lOlSi. 2076 8 „ „ 1400 187 9.257
Mar., 1914.. 1648 6 „ ~ 1050 1187 9,876
Sept., 1914.. 566 Nil 187 9,497
Mar., 1915.. 195 Nil 187 9.489
Sept., 1915.. 189 Nil 187 9,487
Mar., 1916.. 838 Nil 1244 9,893
Sale of Manly leasehold, £ 566. . 9,327
Sept., 1916.. 105 Nil 1008 10,230
Mar., 1917.. 1083 Nil 930 10,077
Sept., 1917.. 1646 858 9,289
Written off capital. £10,500. Reserves.
Goodwill, £9384, disappears .. 95
Mar., 1918.. 3156 10 p.c. = 1225 1292 734
Sept., 1918.. 3552 10 „ „ 1225 1307 1,754
Mar., 1919.. 3390 10 „ ,„ 1225 1209 2 710
Everything seems to be going well with this
co. since the clean-up. All that now need
be sant of past troubles is that 6s. per £1
share had to go to pay the funeral ex-
penses of goodwill, perished leases and
other rubbish. The co. has got out of the
cafe business and as “Miss Bishop”—whose
successful little business was acquired a few
years ago —it is pushing its light-lunch and
cakes in a dozen or so shops in city and
suburbs. Further expansion is contemplated,
and during the past naif a freehold has been
secured tor £13,500 near Circular Quay.
This purchase took £4500 of cash and a
mortgage represents the rest. The result is
that during the year the book value of fixed
assets has expanded from £28,630 to £40,571.
while the excess of liabilities over liquid
assets has moved from £2312 to £10,350.
However, these figures show an improvement
of over £4OOO for the year. Meantime 10
p.c. divs. —equal to 7 p.c. p.a. on the money
originally put up by shareholders —are being-
paid with ease.
The Castle Salt Co-operative Co.
(Adelaide) :
Nominal
Written To Re- Re-
May, Profits. Dividend. Off. serves, serves.
1909. .£6,426 71 p.c. = £4939 £2OOO - £3BOB
1910.. 10,863 10 „ ~ 6585 3000 £1278 5086
1911.. 10,909 10 ~ „ 6585 3000 1324 6410
1912.. 11,960 10 „ „ 6585 3000 2375 8785
1913.. 10,262 10 „ „ 6585 3000 677 9462
1914.. 7,677 74 „ „ 4939 3000 9200
1915.. 2,956 3 % „ „ 2469 1500 SlB7
1916.. 6,118 5 „ 3292 2500 326 8513
1917.. 8,561 10 „ ~ 6585 1976 5513
1918.. 8,924 10 ~ ~ 6585 2000 339. 5852
1919.. 13,345 124 „ ~ 8231 4000 1114 9966
Everything‘has gone this co.’s way lately
It makes its living out of harvesting in sum-
mer time the salt which rises to the surface
of the Yorke Peninsula (S.A.) lake-beds
with the winter rains. Nature has been un-
usually kind during the past two seasons,
and the directors describe the 1917-18 “crop”
(which provided the past year’s trading) as
excellent, while the campaign .just closed
resulted in an output “good in quantity and
quality.” But good seasons have not alone
been responsible for the record profit. Prior
to the war the Is. per cwt. and 15 p.c. duties
were insufficient to give local industry much
chance of expansion, or even a guaranteed
profitable existence, though there are vast
possibilities in the way of both brine springs
and solar salt which should make the Com-
monwealth independent of imports. How-
ever, Wilhelm’s adventure resulted in cur-
tailing imports; apart from packed table-
preparations, the 533,055 cwt. in 1913
dropped to 78.578 cwt. in 1916-17, and to
56,785 cwt. in 1917-18. Not only did prices
begin to soar as a result of short supplies—
the 1913 imports were entered as worth an
average of Is. 4d. per cwt. and the 1917-18
lot at 3s. lOd.—but the local product was in
keen demand. At first Castle Salt could not
take full advantage of the opportunities
offering on account of a run of unfavorable
seasons; but during tbe past year it has
been on a very good wicket, though the cost
of production has been steadily mounting.
In the first table reserves are labelled
“nominal” because of the unspecified amount
of goodwill which is mixed with freeholds,
leaseholds, plant and rolling stock in the
balance-sheet. The co. is an amalgamation


illll The British Westinghouse Electric and Mfg. Co., Ltd. 1111 l
T ramway Motors
A tramway motor must be of strong electrical and mechanical
construction to stand the shocks and strains of constant service.
Westinghouse Tramway Motors possess these qualifications
and represent the best motor practice—the result of long and
wide experience.
There are types to suit varying conditions of service, track,
guage, size of car, etc., and their use will ensure the highest
efficiency, longest life and a reliable service in all kinds of
weather.
f|tmpl)Ousf
Manchester
I’ead Office for Australia:—
Queensland Building, 84, William Street, Melbourne.
HlHlllllllllim Works; Trafford Park. Manchester, England. IlillllMlllllll
The advantage of having* battery charging cunent
on tap in the home garage is now within the reach
of every motorist. The G.E. Mercury Arc Battery
Charger makes any ordinary lighting circuit a source
of energy for starting, lighting, and ignition bat-
teries. Its cost is a mere trifle compaied with the
convenience and economy of home charging. An
overnight boosting charge every few weeks will not
only increase the efficiency of a battery, but will
also lengthen the life of the plates. You should
get one of these outfits. Australian General Electric
Company, Wentworth Avenue, Sydney ; and corner of
Queen and Little Collins Streets, Melbourne— Advt.
'Aluminoferric is necessary where cattle turn up
the mud in the drinking water. A little distributed
over the water will quickly precipitate all impuri-
ties, thus clarifying and purifying the water for your
stock. Use / it in your reservoirs, your wells and
your house tanks. If your storekeeper cannot sup-
ply you send direct to us for free leaflets, particulars
and prices. William Adams & Co. Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth. — Advt. [3
* * * *
Concentrating machinery for all classes of minerals
can be made locally just as well as they can bo
imported from abroad. The Austral Otis Engineer-
ing Company, of Melbourne, specialise in all
machinery for the mill, including crushers, rolls,
grinding pans, tube mills, concentrating tables,
flotation plants, ore samplers, etc. They have
installed numbers of plants in Australia and outside
it, and are always ready to give information on
machinery for milling.— Advt. [4
* * * *
Pioneer W T ood Stave Pipe.—A Record Delivery!
An order for 2t miles of Bin. Pioneer Wood
Stave Pipe from the N! S. Wales Government
Railways and Tramways was recently completed
in a period of eight days. The above
pipes were required urgently to convey water to
the township of Goulburn, where the reservoir was
nearly depleted. We are prepared to supply large
quantities of Wood Stave Pipe at short notice. Send
for illustrated Catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe
Co. Ltd. (Head Office), Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove,
N.S.W. P.O. Address: Box 1576 G.P.0., Sydney.
Contractors to all State Governments. — -Advt.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink’s Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723. — Advt.
You can have walls and ceilings that are just as
permanent as your hardwood floors. Instead of using
inflammable _ lining-boards or shrinkable wall-boards,
select Lottoid, and you’ll never have the job to do
again. Lottoid . Sheets are snow-white, hard, and
smooth as glass. 2/6 per sq. yd. We carry large
stocks of Asbestolite Cement Sheets and Roofing
Slates, Malthoid, Seal Roofing, 3-ply Oregon, Pabeo
Paint for iron roofs, etc. Write for post free
Catalog “L.” Spriggs’ Asbestolite Company, 338
Pitt Street, Sydney.— Advt. [2
The manufacture of ‘Skandia” Crude Oil Engines
in Australia, both marine and industrial types, is
receiving the recognition that .the enterprise, deserves.
The Federal Government has placed an order for a
large marine set, and their example has been followed
by several of the largest trading firms in Australia,
Tasmania, the Pacific Islands and Dutch East Indies.
The workmanship of the Australian “Skandia” com-
pares with any imported engine on the market.
Write Nelson & Robertson, Loftus Street, Sydney.—•
Advt.
Build “Leplastrier” long-lasting, modern machin-
ery-made roads. Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Head
Office, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collision & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.'— Advt.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assav
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling , 's
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B. Selby & Co.,
Ltd., 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney; and 443 Bourke Street, Melb.— Advt.
* * * *
T. H. Palmer, 8.E., Fel. Chem. Soc., etc., consult-
ing _ engineer, valuing, organising, technical • advice,
mining, metallurgy, flotation and selective flotation
processes, Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 Pitt
Street, Sydney. Cables and Telegrams: “Remlap,
Melbourne. — Advt.
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Loss of Profits
Insure in
Tke I.O.A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
CF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital ..£250,000
Subscribed Capital .. 194,235
Paid-up Capital .. 96,497
Income (Gross) 1918 .. 457,852
Established. 1910.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
AGENTS WANTED.
W. K. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street. Sydney.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobet
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited.
Registration of Debentures and Federal Income Tax.
mHE Company would remind Holders of Debentures that a Register has been established and the
registration of Debentures may be effected at any time without cost.
The advantage of holding a Registered Debenture as against an unregistered Bearer Debenture is
obvious, but registration also relieves the holder from the liability of having a material deduction
made by the Company of Federal Income Tax from each Interest Coupon.
Under the Act (see Section 16, Federal income T’>\ Act 1915-1918) the Conmauv may be assessed
tor Income Tax on all Debentures remaining unregistered, and such assessment, if made at the current
rate of tax, would amount to about 225. per £3 Coupon.
The inconvenience to which holders of Bearer Debentures will be put if such deduction is made
oan be avoided if they change their debentures to “Registered” Debentures, which may, if required, be
reconverted to “Bearer” Debentures at any time also without charge.
This change, to be effective, should be made prior to the Ist July, 1919, when the next inte-cst
payment falls due, or before the interest coupons are presented for payment.
Debentures should be lodged at the Company’s Office, Equitable Building, Melbourne, for the pur-
poses of Registration and Endorsement, and must have Coupons attached.
13t’h June* 1919.
F. M. DICKENSON. Secretary,
of various interests—but chiefly the old
( astle bait Co. and Henry Berry—and this
I £~ lt oln Co “ in S- of - a S e year. Paid capital is
±of>,BoU, the same as it was when operations
began. During its first 10 years, chiefly on
account of keen competition, dividends
amounted to only 45 p.c.; but since then
shareholders have had 96-J p.c. altogether—
an average of just over 7 p.c. p.a. since the
co. began. _ So the enterprise has not been
:l . Nor has the business been
visibly expanded to any great extent by un-
distributed profits, as this comparison shows:
. . „ 1899. 1909. 1919.
Assets other than fixed
T P r ?i!'!t' t y arid plant ..£10,567 £30,597 £43,648
Liabilities .. .. 4,296 15,503 17,757
Surplus ..£12,271 £15,094 £25,891
Fixed assets and goodwill £55,315 £59,977 £59,184
It would thus appear that, after renewing
plant and making additions thereto, in the
-y years the co. has improved its liquid posi-
tion by only £lO,BOO. The improvement
may, no doubt, be better than that; much
depends on the valuation not only of plant,
but also of stocks. Including the recent
harvest, the management reckoned that it
had £35,808 in salt and bags, and it is un-
likely, particularly in the co.’s most pros-
perous year, that these stocks have been
taken credit for at too liberal a valuation.
Of the £4OOO shown as written off, bv the
way, £2OOO has been clipped off plant, £lOOO
off leaseholds, and the remaining £lOOO off
goodwill.
* * * *
Vegetable Creek (N.S.W.) bloomed during
the year ended April last. An, output of
319 tons tin oxide gave £00,208 (averaging
nearly £2OB per ton), and after meeting all
working and administrative exes, and depre-
ciation of plant there was a net profit of
£39,402. Including last year's carry-for-
ward there xrap £40,932 to play with, and
shareholders got £40,500, equal to over 35
p.c. on the paid capital of £109,087. How-
ever, shareholders have had back altogether
only £83,050 so far. Manager Atkinson
started the year with estimated ore reserves
of 220 tons, but the Gordon shaft responded
so well to development that after rooting
out 319 tons during the year there were still
352 tons in sight when the accounts closed.
Another six months will probably see the
end of operations in the Allen shaft; and in
Chandler’s, though all the wash has been got
out, there is still about 12 months’ work
ahead sluicing low-grade headings which
were formerly dumped but can now' be
handled at a profit. From this portion of
the property in eight years 923 tons oxide
have been won w r orth £113,400. In Gordon’s
everything has been going well. Pushing
ahead with the leading drive, manager Atkin-
son, after passing through a blank, hit con-
tinuous wash for about 350 ft. averaging 40ft
wide and 18in. thick and going about 901 b.
In the dip workings another lot 450 ft. in
length and up to 150 ft. wide, but varying in
both thickness and value, has been proved.
When the accounts closed the co. had a liquid
surplus of £10,639. And on the strength of
this and the 352 tons tin in sight, together
with further possible developments, the mar-
ket reckons the mine is worth £54,000. It
is understood that the directors have decided
to exercise an option over a large area of
sluicing ground at Bald Nob, near Glen
Innes, and that plans for an extensive
modernised plant are in preparation. On
current reports as to yardage and values, the
’acquisition of this property should extend
the life of the co. long after the depp lead is
worked out.
* * * *
Ponds Creek Co. formerly carried on tin-
sluicing operations at a place of that name
in the Inverell district (N.S.W.), but with-
out success. It then transferred itself to the
old Rothschild ground at Vegetable Creek,
close to Emmaville. If the area could be
removed to within a few miles of Sydney
it would make all the road-metal concerns
sing small. There are few creeks in Aus-
tralia which for a length of a mile contain
more hard porphyritic wash-boulders. It
was a very rich section of the field, and some
parts of it still carry good tin values —that
is, on a sluicer’s basis—but the expense of
working is unavoidably abnormal. At least
two-thirds of the material to be treated
is stone, and this has to be detached
by the nozzle and then sluiced down
the races to the pump-sump, thence
to be hoisted 40 feet or so to the
grizzly at the head of the sluice-box. This
is considered one of the show plants of
the district, but as a mechanical proposition
for the class of work which it has to do it
defies every suggestion of efficiency and
economy. The co. is at present operating on
one of the fancy spots of its area, from
which it must earn an occasional dividend.
It is fortunate in having an unlimited
supply of water at command, but for this
it has to pay practically a royalty of 10
p.c. on the gross production.
* * * *
The Westralian Ministry believes that it
can prop up the tumbling gold yield in that
State. Prospecting is to be stimulated by
giving food, and perhaps explosives, to men
in search of new finds; mining rents are to
be reduced during the first three years of a
lease; more liberal labor conditions are to
be framed; and charges for ore treatment at
the Government mills and for water are to
be lowered. New mines are badly wanted,
but neither free tucker nor spending-silver
is likely to attract the right class of prospec-
tor. As The Bulletin has often pointed
out, what the State should aim at is to get the
working miner to do some prospecting and
see that lie is not jumped on or frozen out if
he finds anything worth while. The gold
output is more likely to be increased by open-
ing up some of the thousands of known reefs
and lodes in the State than by subsidising
men to picnic or perish in the wilderness.
Costs will have to come down, too, before
any permanent lift can be given the industry.
Yet liviiig costs on some fields have soared to
such a heisrht that mine workers are more
likely to demand a higher than accept a
lower rate of pay, while any change in the
method of generating power or wholesale
scrapping of plant is inexpedient in view of
the great capital expenditure entailed.
• * * *
Ivanhoe (W.A.) treated 205,42 S short
tons for gold worth £34.5,500 during 1918, and
made a profit of £79,419. Four divs. absorb-
ing £75.000 were handed out. Expenditure
on buildings, plant and equipment during the
year amounted to £1219 and on development
£26,269. The outlay or. these items since
the formation of the co. by Kaufman in
1897 has been considerably over a million,
but they have been written down in the
balance-sheet to £54,295, the amount of the
eo.’s original working capital. Divs. paid
to date aggregate £3,745,000. Apart from
plant, equipment and ore reserves of a gross
value of about £1,700,000, the co.'s iast
balance-sheet had liquid assets amounting to
£293,176, of which £29,521 was cash,
bullion, £18,500 loans, £51,334 stores and
£164,284 investments, mostly in British and
foreign railways and industrial concerns.
On the other side the co. owed only £24.937.
Nothing is said about the appearance of the
mine at depth, but from all accounts it is
still very sickly. For the first five months
of the current year 85,983 tons were got out
for gold worth £148,640. The mine has
now produced almost 694 tons gold.
* * * *
Exemption was granted the once-prosper-
ous Brownldll Extended, Kalgoorlie, the
other day. The co.’s original holding was
a small block dovetailed between the Brown-
hill and Associated Northern, and like the
latter pronerty w r as for a long time con-
sidered valueless. Then suddenly the
phenomenally rich Brownhill shoot was
found to pass through both, and Extended’s
shares quickly rose from a few shillings to
£6. It took years to extract and treat
Extended’s portion of the bonanza, but long
before the last few thousand tons were taken
out insiders in receipt of early information
had got out and knocked the market down.
Later on the Brownhill South was added to
the co.’s holding, but nothing worth mention-
ing was ever found in that show or in the
other block, outside of the rich shoot. Funds
are now very low, and the manager is off
to London to see if the directors are inclined
to raise any more. But as the co. is tied up
in a Nigerian tin venture and realises the
hopelessness of making any more money at
Kalgoorlie, there seems little chance of fur-
ther capital being expended on its holdings
there.
* * * *
As the writing on the wall is becoming
plainer every day, Kalgoorlie and its mayor
bestirred themselves last month and called
for volunteers to take up 20,000 shares in a
proposed co., which, it was alleged, would
have a good chance of finding heaps of gold
at the north end of the field. Evidently a
lot of people thought otherwise, as only 3000
were applied for, and the venture is likely
to fall flat. The area mentioned was worked
in places down to several hundred feet by a
number of cos. in the early days, and has
been rooted by tributors a good deal since.
In very few instances were dividends paid,
and although a lot of gold has been extracted
from time to time in the last 24 years, a
good deal more than the value taken out
has been put back again.
* * * *
Westralia’s latest gold discovery is on
Block 50 Hampton Plains, Coolgardie, the
only freehold property with' gold-mining
rights in the State. The reef is in a
locality which was passed over by hundreds
of diggers in the early days when portions
of the co.’s holdings, comprising some
190.000 acres, were yielding large quantities
of alluvial e-olcT. For a time Bayley’s great
find was believed by some to be on the co.’s-
property, but a special survey proved it to
be more than a mile or two away from the
boundary.
* * * *
_ Poona (W.A.), where emeralds as well as
tin and gold are alleged to exist, is about as
rough a bit of country as can be found any-
where in the State. But so far nobody has
found anything worth blowing about.
“Bulleroo”: Edna Deeps scrip has been
football material for a fortnight past. Capi-
tal expenditure is still gobbling up cash at
this Westonia show, and as the gold yield has
to meet such needs as well as current exes.,
there must be a shrinkage of the money in
hand. Hard heads calculate that by the
time Stuckey gets his dead work out of hand
the job of rebuilding reserves will be a
tougher problem than keeping Edna May
water back from the shaft. Westonia won’t
have it that Stuckey’s luck is out over the
quality of the stone to be opened up between
Nos. 5 and 6 (740 ft.) levels, but the last
two or three yields make it clear that the dirt
going to the mill is not giving the cake ex-
pected. Vestibule yarns are that the stone
south at 740 ft. is disappointing. After all,
that won’t matter much if the shoot keeps its
value and size to the north. It is there that
the big block of ore must be got. So if
Stuckey can show that the reef in that
quarter is not pinched and poorer the bears
will soon scuttle back to their dens. If
it is, then deep mining at Westonia has a dis-
mal outlook.
* * * *
With a record of £l6 Ss. paid in divs. per
share, South New Moon is one of Bendigo’s
big four, though its palmy days have long
since gone. Now its six-montlily output is
down to a miserable 6350 z. from 2770 tons,
and even a bit of an overdraft is seen.
Nearly all the stone comes from between
740 ft. and 900 ft., gold as heretofore showing
best on the rim of the spurry country. At
740 ft. the side-stopes go out 40ft. in width,
but the tonnage treated tells the story of
poverty-stricken dirt and the need for strik-
ing out into fresh ground. Maybe the work
done by the AT will put some ginger into
progressive operations, instead of the co.
digging among the discards of the old days
for a few rich spurs and a share flutter.
» . * * *
The Anglo-Persian Oil Co., which has
been flirting with External Affairs Min-
ister Paddy Glynn over Papuan oil, made
the pace in profit-earning during its last
financial year. The trading profit account
soared from £171,723 in 1916 to £415,877
in 1917, and in 1918 to £1,516,994, and that
is “after making ample allowances for de-
preciation.” Britain used the co. to the
utmost limit diming the term by calling on
its oil fleet to keep the Navy served. But
Britain did well by that bit of strategy,
for as it holds more than half the co.’s
shares the Treasury not only got its pro-
portion _of the divs. paid, but also grabbed
over £450,000 as excess profits tax. Alto-
gether the Government raked in a 30 p.c.
div. on its investment, while the private
holder got a modest 8 p.c. If the late Mt.
Morgan D’Arcy had not had the vision to
see what. possibilities existed in Persia,
the Hun instead of John Bull would have
grabbed the concessions over the most pro-
mising oil region known. T. J. Greenway’s
brother, Chas. Greenway, is one of the big
guns on the Anglo-Persian Board, for he
joined up with D’Arcy when the latter was
finding the baby a bit too heavy on account
of costly preliminary work. He also had
a lot to do with making the State a part-
ner in the concern.
* * * *
The shades of night have not lifted off
Dalmayne colliery (Tas.) since Farthing,
M.L.A., and McWilliams, M.H.R., dropped
out. Gales have belted the co.’s jetty at
Piccaninny Point so hard that shipping
there has been out of the question. The
new Board, under barrister Morley and Wil-
liam Orr, after a lot of head-scratching, got
Reid Bell, naval engineer, to look into the
problem of giving the mine a port of ship-
ment. The jetty he writes off, without hesi-
tation. He won’t go to Coles Bay, along
the coast, nor will he go inland to join up
by ropeway with the St. Mary’s-Fingal rail-
way. Instead, he suggests a big island bin
beside a half-submerged granite reef south of
where the jetty now stands He proposes sup-
ports of 16 rows of piles, and connecting the
outfit by means of a self-acting ropeway from
the colliery. Nautically there appears to be
no special reason against the pi*acticability
of the island bin. Still it looks a tough job
to concrete up the piles and buttress them
with the rough breakwater which Bell has
in view. And all that he reckons is required
for the job is a modest £17.500. To get it
means another increase of Dalipayne’s capital
and a stock of the same old faith that let
McWilliams, Farthing and Lindon float the
old debentures of the original co. Whether
such faith has been thinned out by the
storms of the past two years, so that'bond-
holders will have to provide a portion of the
money, will depend largely on what scheme
Morley may evolve.
* * * *
Some impressive Rand figures: Last year
the Van Ryn Deep’s revenue expanded by
nearly £30,000 and got to £1,173,675. Dis-
bursements—including divs., £538.601 •
totalled £1,177,146. Government Gold Min-
ing Areas’ revenue showed an increase of
£267.000. while working costs mopped up
£1,286,258 and divs. absorbed £35,000. Ore
reserves were increased during the yeni bj no
less than 2| million tons. Eangiaagie
Estate's revenue was £606,914, and aftei pio-
viding for all exes. 124 pc in dividends was
naid with ease. The Witwatersrand Co.’s
revenue totalled £515,431, of which £412,793
went in expenditure and £<0,444 m divs.


SPLICING- THE MAIN-BRACE.


fAUhPINfi?
WtUHTKWItnWfWjg;
1 jTQMfv '
PERTH AHO LONDON
Use a genuine, high-grade
Australian Product in
FAULDING’S
Medicinal
EPSOM SALTS.
SPECIALLY REFINED AND
GUARANTEED PURE.
Sold in lo". Packets. 11b. Cartons, and Bulk
in lcwt. cases.
LOOK FOR THE BLUE LABEL.
Manufactured and refined in Australia bv
F. H. FAULDING & CO..
Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane
and London.
Without good hearing you are greatly handi-
capped, and the fact is brought home to you
every day. Why remain deaf? The
Acousticon
10 Days’
FREE TRIAL
will safely and surely enable von to hear.
Over 330.000 delighted users, ipeluding the
Prime Minister, Mr. Hughes, who is using
his “Acoustieon” at the Peace Conference.
Write for 10 Days' Free Trial. No deposit,
no obligation. Convince vourself at our
exDense, and DON’T STAY DEAF! New stocks
arrived.
LamSOn^ tore Co 102 Dakin & House. SYDNEY
L/ulllovll gervice oidarfleet, Col ins 3t..MELB
N Z.: John Procter, ZOO High St.. Chrixtc'h.
W.A.: H. Little & Co., B~>t Hay Street, Perth.
THE
Hotel Sydney
(SYDNEY)
Is one of the largest, most modern
and best equipped in Australia.
It is situated opposite the Railway Station
and is centra]! to everywhere.
ACCOMMODATION FOR 400 GUESTS.
Quiet, Cool and Comfortable.
Tlot and Cold Water, Day and Night, in every
Red room.
Half an acre of Glorious Roof
Garden.
Tariff from 12/0 per day.
Have you Lunched qr Dined at the “Sydney”?
Management E. T. CHEESEMAN.
SLICE
PLUG
THe
finest
TOBACCO
in
two forms—
Plug-Slice
or
Ready-Rubbed.
EDGEWORTH
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
July birthdays: Major-Gen. Ryrie,
54, on Ist; Theo. Fink (Melb.)y
64, on 3rd ; Federal Auditor-Gen. Israel, 69,
on 4th; A. W. Piper, K.G. (S.A.), 54, on
sth; Pianist Percy Grainger, 37, on Bth;.
Warden Barff (Syd. Uni.), 62, on 9th;
Brig.-Gen. Wilson (Q.), 48,. on 11th; Ohas.
AS HISTORY TELLS.
MURPHY (struggling with his memory):
"Jellicoe? I seen that name in 'istory.
Wasn't he the bloke the Jews tried to
blow down — an' couldn’t?"
J. Dashwood, K.C. (S.A.), 76, on 17th;
Prof. E. Harold Davies (S.A.), 52, on 18th;
Tetley Grant (Pres, of Speck Leg. Council),
63, on 19th; Admiral Creswell, 67, on 20th;
Edward Mitchell, K.C. (Melb.), 64, and E.
S. Cunningham (editor Argus), 60, on
21st; N.S.W. Govt. Astronomer W. E.
Cooke, 56, on 25th; Justice Gordon (S.A.),
69, on 26tli; Justice Crisp (Tas.), 45, on
27th; Surgeon Alexander MacCormick, 63,
and N.S.W. Geologist E. F. Pittman, 70,
on 31st.
Impossible as it may sound, the Vic.
House of Landlords is now knightless, and
a stranger might be tempted to jump to the
conclusion that the Chamber is democratic.
Davies, who' relinquished his seat on June 4,
was the only Sir among the 34. Since
Frank Madden was ousted by Greenwood
Peacock is the solitary knight in the Vic.
Assembly.
Brig.-Gen. Williams has gone back to his
old job of Town Clerk of Ballarat, which
he may find a trifle dull after the post of
Vic. Military Commandant. For a few
weeks, in conjunction with E. C. Dyason,
he helped McWhae as an organiser to fight
’flu. N. S. Wales might do worse than cm
a loan of him for similar work. Formerly
Williams edited the Ballarat Courier, and
was a force in the Golden City. If he had
been a few years younger he would have
been chosen as chief of Vic. police.
Of 120 officers drawn from the regular
forces of all parts of the British Empire to
enter the Staff College, Camberley, on April
1 last, the Australian selections were Brig.-
Gcneral Miles, Lieut.-Colonels Somerville
and Farr and Majors Ilutchin and Wootten.
The course is usually for two years, but as
all concerned have just had so much practical
experience, this one will probably be short-
ened. Miles comes from the R.A.F.A.;
Somerville was a bank-clerk and Light Horse
officer in N.S.W. before getting his “per-
manent” commission ; Farr. comes from Mel-
bourne and was a school-teacher and militia
officer ; I-lutchin was a school-teacher in N.
Si. Wales and later on a staff-sergeant-major;
Wootten is a Duntroon boy. They, are a
fairly young lot, Somerville being the only
one over 34, while Farr and Wootten are in
the twenties.
“Itio”: No. Brig.-Geperal “Bert” Lloyd,
aged ,35, isn’t the youngest officer of that
rank in the A.I.F. IT. G. .Bennett became
a general officer at, 29, while Brig.-Generals
J. IT. Cannan, T. A. Blarney, J. C. Stewart,
C. H. Jess and C. G. N. Miles all attained
the rank at 34. Four of these—Lloyd,
Bennett, Jess and Stewart—are Victorians.
Also four—Blarney, Jess, Miles and Lloyd—
are permanent officers, the first two coming
from the staff, the others from the R.A.F.A.
“Legs Eleven”: My nomination for the
toughest man in the A.I.F. is Private Jack
Mansfield, of Melbourne. On June 39 last
year this Digger stopped enough ironmongery
to warrant the amputation of both legs, and.
as a sideline, his left arm was fractured.
Some 10 days later his brother, in another
battalion, received a letter written by John
on the 28th, reporting good progress and ex-
pressing the hope that he’d be “about again
m a few days.” Before the war, Mansfield
was a steeplejack.
Father Will Collins, a Victorian native,
who is a B.A. of Melb. Uni. as well as a
Doctor of Divinity, has been appointed
managing-editor of Melbourne Advocate by
Archbishop Mannix, who acquired that
weekly from the. Winter family a few months
ago. Before going to Rome to complete his
ecclesiastical studies, Dr. Collins was a Vic.
civil servant—first at the Public Library,
and then at the Education Dept., where he
helped C. R. Long to get out the School
Paper and the Education Gazette.
More trouble has been mooted for Wil-
liam Morris Hughes. When Digger Ted
Scott recited Dennis’s “Sentimental Bloke”
and “Ginger Mick” verses to the troops in
Egypt, the applause cracked the Sphinx.
Now he has returned to become professional.
Scott bears an extraordinary moustache-
less likeness to the Prime Minister, and
Dennis is now writing for him a special set
of verses which he will render in Hughes’s
make-up.
Jack Burns, late ironworkers’ secretary,
was the second prominent Sydney indus-
trialist to go out to ’flu during the recent
N. S. Wales Labor conference, the other being
Larry O’Hara, M.L.A. Jack’s disposition
matched his furtive eye and woolly thatch,
and during his less than 40 years he ran
into a whole lot of trouble that the average
person would never succeed in discovering.
He was up to his elbows in the 1916 section
that broke Labor, but was past caring when
the other inevitable section was at hand to
swallow that one. If the other side isn’t
a little more congenial than this place ap-
peared to be for jack, then it’s not worth
the bother of shifting.
When he was private sec. to G.-G. North-
cote., Paymaster-Captain H. H. Share, now
.Jellicoe’s right hand man, helped a pressman
to get a scoop by judiciously “thinking
aloud.”. George Reid asked his Ex. for a
dissolution, after the numbers were against
him in the Reps. He came out of Govern-
ment House, and drove away in a hansom.
The pressman who was watching from a
window in the waiting-room immediatelv
secure an interview with Share “Can’t teil
you . anything,” said the private secretary,
smiling. . “I saw the Prime Minister coming
out looking very crestfallen,” remarked the
reporter. “Well,” replied Share, “if you
can trust your impression, why investi-
gate further? Excuse me one second.”
Then he reached out for an engage-
ment tablet, and wrote, “His Excellency
to see Mr. Deakin at 4.” He spoke
the words as he wrote them as if they were
intended for his own ear only. The press-
man was not stupid and retreated quickly.
When Reid informed 17 journalists at 3.45
that he had resigned he was handed a first
•edition containing the news he was abour to
impart. Deakin and his team were installed
an hour or two later.
The Daltons of Orange (N.S.W.) are still
in mourning. The death of the senior of
the family, James Dalton, in March, was a
continuation of sables for Willie Redmond
and Mrs. Tom Dalton. Now the death is
announceu of E. 8., second-youngest son of
the late James, the founder of the big
western firm. E. B. Dalton was trained
for the law, but went squatting, and when
his father fell ill he became general manager
of the business. He was a fine sport, an
amateur actor of some merit, and only 45
when he died.
Australian writer Boyd Cable, who, hap-
pening to be in England when the war
started, dropped into the artillery and, after
making good there, transferred to the flying
service, is a lieut.-colonel now. For the
time being he is'engaged on war records.
out ad Barcaldine (Q.), aged 73,
W. H. Campbell, senior partner and editor of
the Western Champion and veteran
Bananaland journalist. A Blue Coat boy
whose father had fought* at Waterloo, he
began his “colonial” experiences by taking
a hand in the last Maori war and next tried
his luck on the Palmer diggings. About 40,
years ago he decided that it was easier to
dip a pen than swirl a dish, so he joined
James Bros, and established the Champion,
first at B'ackall and then at Barcaldine. In
the troublesome times of the ’9l and ’94
strikes he handled a vitriolic pen on behalf of
the pastoralists, and, later, went to great
trouble to ’*ove that wheat would grow in
the Ceutrf Vest;
At 92 Daniel Burke got up the other day
at a municipal conference in Hobart, and
said that, after a 62-years’ connection with
local government work, he was afraid his
hearing was giving way. P'aniel first came
up for the judgment of the E'xton Road Trust
electors in 1557, and has been in the West-
DAN BURKE, who has just retired from
Tasmanian public life at 92.
bury Council without a break since 1865.
He also found time to act as coroner and
Supreme Court Commissioner, and to repre-
sent Gressy in the Assembly for 10 years or
so. He was president of the Municipal
Association during the first three years of
its existence.
Cecil Snencer Cowper, solicitor, just dead
at 55. was the fourth son of Charles Cow-
per, one time Sheriff of N. S. Wales. The
first Australian Cowper was William, after-
wards Archdeacon, who came to Sydney In
August, 1809, while the “Rebel Govern-
ment” was in power. With him arrived an
infant, Charles, afterward five times Pre-
mier and the father of the sheriff. Cecil,
just dead, was a member of the old law-
firm of Allen, Allen and Hemsley.
“R. 8.”: Died at Noumea, in a motor
accident, Joe R. Rosewarne, who had es-
tablished the Cumberland Packing Co.
(Sydney), and had meatworks at Brisbane
and in North Queensland. A good Aus-
tralian, he wanted to see his label in the
Australian trenches, but the U.S.A. Meat
Trust saw to that. His weekly contract
was 6000 cases of meat, each 4 dozen 12oz.
cans at 8s 6d. a dozen, with Swift’s label on
the good Queensland bullock. Swift’s never
saw the stuff, but passed it on to the
War Office at 15s. a dozen. In desperation
he shipped 20.000 cases labelled “Australian,”
and offered_ them at 9s. a dozen, the extra
sixpence being to cover the cost of labelling.
And the War Office refused to take it, say-
ing that “it must come through recognised
channels.” The fact that he had sold the
British Govt, millions of pounds’ weight of
meat was nothing; Mr. English Circumlocu-
t:on preferred paying 245. a case more as
tribute to the “recognised channel.” And
then Swift refused to be the “recognised
channel” for the 20,000 cases. A kindly, big-
hearted, clever, energetic man, who was un-
happy unless he had his friends with him—
that was J. R. Rosewarne, with his ending
at 53.
TOM GIVENS, President of the Senate.
Victor Hoed prevented Stanley from mak-
ing the same mistake as his predecessor
Talbot when reading the Speech at the
opening of a Vic. Parliamentary session.
Talbot turned over two leaves and so omitted
a whole page of Ministerial announcements.
All would have cone well but for A. A. Bill-
son. Speaker Madden, using the musty for-
mula, informed the Assembly that the Gov-
ernor had delivered a Speech and that he
(the Speaker) “for greater accuracy had
obtained a copy,” Billson asked which de-
liverance the House was to discuss—the one
Talbot had read or the one of “greater accu-
racy.” The Speaker and the Government
(Bent was in office at the time) frowned
at Billson and remained dumb. Hood re-
membered. and when, some years later, Stan-
ley was turning over two leaves at once, he
reached across in time and parted the pages
gently with a hand encased in a white kid
glove.
Switched off at Charleville (Q.) recently.
Charles (“Peg-leg”) Theeuf. He was one of
th„e pioneers of the motor-car in Western
Bananaland, and though short of a leg drove
for here for manv years between Charleville
and Adnvale. No road was too rough for
him. To his credit stand many astonishing
driving feats, such as running the last 10
miles into town at night on reverse gear
with a broken mainshaft. He also rigged
an aerial over the Langlo River, and was
thus able to drive through several feet of
water. His record of a single-handed non-
stop run of 316 miles with a sick woman
through mud and bush will stand for many
a day. Mileage: 43 years and 9 months.
Caotain A. H. Cobby, D. 5.0., D.F.C. and
two bars, who returned lately, was the first
Australian to win the Distinguished Ply-
ing Cross, the first airman to get a bar to
the decoration, and the first officer to annex
two bars. Cobby (aged 22) enlisted in the
A.I.F. in December, 1916, went to France
as an airman in December, 1917, and stuck
it without a spell till the armistice. His
total bag of 29 ’planes and five balloons.
Before the war lie was a clerk in the Com-
monwealth Bank in Melbourne.
Architect Billy Martin just managed to
climb into a seat on the N. S. Wales A.L;P.
executive at the recent conference. Sixteen
years ago he was active in launchimr the
A. in the Ma State, and made a hard
but unsuccessful fight against the powerful
B. opposition. Dapper, and a taking
talker, his creamy locks and classic profile
were worth seeing- while he got off his set
patriotic speech about the “bursting bloom
of the waratah,” “glinting gleam of the
Southern Cross,” and all the rest. At that
f'me dour, humorless old John Nobbs,
iL.L.A., was also an A.N.A. official. Once
a branch was being opened with great ado.
but mainspring Martin hadn’t arrived, and
Nobbs was put up to make the speech To
save himself the trouble of thinking he made
Martin s—after a fashion. But there was
no detail missing—he’d heard it so often.
1 lesentlv, like the hero in the third act,
in burst Martin and started to re-deliver
the Southern Cross and the balance of the
goods, all of which by that time looked like
last year s almanac. The audience respon-
ded like a burst drum. Going home Billy
said to the general secretary, “You’ve
wasted a charter on that branch—thev’re a
lot of sheep.”
“TITLE FOR THE ASKING.”
[For The Bulletin.]
“Speaking at North Brunswick, Archbishop Man-
nix said one good thine- could at least be said about
the Australian Prime Minister, and that was that he
bad no title. He Quite believed Mr. Hughes could
have had one for the asking.”
ME !
A title for the asking! Do they think
That I’m like J. O. Fairfax, 0.8. E.,
Or Nellie Melba, Singing for a “Dame,”
Or Fuller, strutting as a spurred knight?
Ye gods and little fishes,
Fancy me, me, me, /
Sir William Morris Hughes,/ K.C.M.G.!
ME !
The one and only Hughes, a fawning knight,
Such as are tea-and-bacoh merchants. Me
A paltry baronet, buying a name
To please a wife who wants to ape the big,
Like city aldermen ! / f
My folks would grin
At Hughes, a baronet, and grouse like sin. .
ME ! -
A viscount! .Can you see me? No, you-can’t!
Am I a fool to ask for gauds like this?
I own a name that rings across the seas
Like Foch’s and Clemenceau’s; two good names
That have- no handles to them.
Why should I, I, I,
Ask for 'a piffling title—why (eh?) why?
ME!
Lord Hughes of Gore Hill. Don’t I know l
The rig would hardly suit my classic phiz ;
The heavy robes ’d trip my weary feet,
And I have not the stature for the part.
Mannix has blown the gaff, c
But still I want to say
I’ve turned all titles down this many a day.
ME!
‘Tis whispered I might have a dukedom.
I should smile. - A Garter- wou Id not tempt me
from the path
That I have mapped. Just plain “Australian
Bill.”
I have no need of patronage from king or emperor.
I stand upon my pat.
ME and my family are Iluyheses,
And anyone can be a duke who chooses.
N.S.W.
MANNAMEAD.


The Event of the Reason!
Last Few Days of London
(Opp. G.P.0., Melbourne)
All Pure Wool Sac Suits
mm
\ * i
I mm -
t s
I
1
V?
i-i
HP
In piHB development of this offer was nothing
j I short of a merchandising triumph, pre-
senting values so vital and timely that
every man seeking extra suit quality should
take advantage of this
Super-value in Re&dy-
to-Wear Tailoring.
Because the material was purchased
over 12 months ago we secured it at
40 per cent, less than wholesale worth
to-day. As it arrived too late for
last winter we held on to the
material right through the
summer, for it’s a special
winter weight.
All Pure Wool Dark Grey
Cheviot Tweed.
Tailored to our highest ideals in cut, style and work-
manship, these Suits are made to our own scientific size
chart. Whatever your chest and waist measurements,
height, length of sleeve and leg you can get a suit that
coiresponds in every detail.
Stout, Short, Slim, Slender, Tall —
All Men Fitted Perfectly.
The offer closes in a few days, and is far too good to
miss. State your size and order now under our
guarantee of satisfaction or money back; or cut out and
post the Coupon for Patterns and Measurement Form.
Remember, you can be fitted as if the suit was
specially made for you.
o
*
A
O
Ju
\
m
u
%
<
t
■ ■
■ill
£
m
/
' £
A
Si
I:,
JSj.
'm
Ik I
i
ip<«^g
\
Ij
d : y
3l\
■
F
7
Helß
■
* it j
\ n
■
,
/
S*i
:
II
■ppi
■fll
U;
■
r'^r
■
MS
k'
r
m
I
w
i yiKs\ ■-\
i Am
®, i? ifiifiii
liiii^B
I:.."- «
Mi
■a
1.1
A
■1 f •
»
<1 ns**
#/
MM
■fe
Hi
• - s «
m*
i j
m
I
ai
111 l lllllllli
! \WL\
,: . m \
hmmi
All One
Price.
fit
Our Only Address in Australia
Opp. G.P.0., Melbourne


-
* IT USED
V° ge--
WI1«T
IT OSED !
TO ‘ I
WATCH yon
BRUSH and
COMB.
They first indicate
the sickening stage
of the hair.
Dandruff and loose hairs are the warning signs on the way to baldness and the
immediate need to eleanse the scalp, remove the dandruff and keep the hair vigorous
and healthy.
John Strange Winter’s hair foods
OILY and
NON-OILY
will prevent baldness, stop falling hair and dandruff.
Obtainable all leading Chemists and Departmental Stores.
Send to JOHN STRANGE WINTER (London, Paris. Rome), 2(1 Jamieson
for Booklet.
Street, Sydney,
AAeTtcmian
I▼ \ HIGH-CLASS
Creams
2nd
Pastes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
WARREN 1 * STRANG LTD.
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne.
E. BROWN (|> SONS LONDON
AGENCIES • ALL * OVER • THE • WORLD
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
Society
MINCHINBURY
“S.M.”: The trial of the Kaiser and the
trial of at least two men responsible for
the seamen's strike seem to me very much
the same question :
In each case the law was broken, only with a
difference. The Kaiser denies the breakage, and,
seeing that international law isn't very clearly
defined, he has some shadow of a case. The others
broke a written law and one at least boasted that
lie had “flouted” the people’s court and said he
would do so “for all time.”
Each party refused arbitration, especially the strike
leaders. In their case there already existed a per-
manent court which had been appealed to frequently
and had always given a decision in the men’s favor.
No court existed in the Kaiser’s case and- one
would have to be constituted.
Each party, in the insane pride of power and the
search for advertisement, was callously insensible to
human suffering—to the pain and misery of old
people or young who had given no cause for offence.
The Kaiser has murder on his soul. The others
almost certainly have murder on their souls also
and will have more, though their victims can’t be
separately identified. It is impossible to impose
hardships on a large section of the community in the
depth of .winter and the middle of the worst epidemic
the country has ever experienced without increasing
the death-rate.
The parties—the Kaiser and the other Kaisers—
have the same pose of high moral endeavor and
profound altruism. One, urged on by a Gott of
his own imagining, said he stood for civilisation and
“Kultur.” The other, urged on by a Gott of its
own imagining, or dispensing with Gott whether real
or imaginary, said it stood for civilisation and
freedom, and drove its followers before it in the
name of Liberty.
Each party put a lofty and Pope-like anathema
on all who disagreed, as traitors to the cause. And
each believed himself or itself to be so far above the
law that there would be no penalty for failure.
I suggest that all the Kaisers' be tried
together in order to save expense.
* * * *
“Cpl. A.J.II.”: A gold cup was offered
by the president of a wayback Victorian shire
lor the parents in whose home triplets were
born during the year. The trophy was
Avon by an ex-soldier, and when the donor
presented it in front of the assembled resi-
dents, lie wished the soldier, his wife, and
the triplets long life and prosperity. Dad
listened to the speech in painful silence, and
then made one inquiry: “Say, governor,
have I got to ivin the thing three vears in
succession ?”
* * * *
Apparently official bungling has at last
succeeded in planting ’flu in Tasmania,
a case having been discovered in Hobart a
JeAV _ hours after the arrival of a batch of
soldiers from the local quarantine station on
Bruny Island. The official “explanation”
is that the patient, recently shipped with a
big batch of returning Tas. soldiers from
Melbourne, and just finishing his probation-
ary period at Bruny Island,
feeling a bit off, got a
cobber to personate him at
three consecutive medical
examinations, and thus es-
caped detection until after
all hands had reached the
city, had been publicly Avel-
comed by crowds on the
wharf, and had dispersed to
their homes. This means
that there are hundreds of
contacts. It also means
that somebody ought to be
dealt Ayith; and the Federal
authorities, who have turned
a deaf ear to Tasmania’s
numerous appeals to have
clean home-coming trans-
ports unload their ' Tas-
manian soldiers in a Tas-
manian port instead of
down in Melbourne and other
deserve a place somewhere
clumping them
infected spots,
in the procession.
“Cobber”; Political trickery is an old
flung in the Speck. In the ’fifties a straight-
out contest took place for the I-lobart seat
between an English aristocrat and a par-
doned lag. The odds were anything on the
nob. On the night preceding the election,
however, the ex-convict arranged to have an
effigy of himself erected on the roof of the
polling-booth. When the electors turned up
next morning and beheld the figure with an
abundance of leg-irons and handcuffs, they
blamed their hitherto favorite candidate for
what looked like a dirty trick. Besides, the
effigy reflected on many of themselves. So
the count was in favor of the cunning Barab-
bas, Avho was immortalised and never beaten
in an election contest afterwards.
*** ’ »
“G. 1.”: “Digger” (8., 19/6/19) is up
against an expert in the late General
Bridges when he criticises the civil work
done at Duntroon. Bridges modelled the
curriculum, after months of study and travel,
on those of West Point and Sandhurst. In
the first place, although mathematics,
physics and chemistry are largely taught,
they are all as applied to military science.
Modern languages (the only civil subjects
to last out the full course) are obviously
invaluable to a permanent man. In the
second place, out of a total of 14 officers at
Duntroon, only fi\ r e did not see service in
the great war. These five, including the
commandant, are without exception consider-
ably over the age limit. The other nine
MUTUALLY SA TIS LAC TORY.
THE YOUNG BOY: “If you will give me your daughter I shan't try to cut her off from
you — I shall always be glad to hare you or her mother with us.”
THE OLD BOY: “Her mother? Ah, that's thoughtful of you. I think perhaps we can
arrange matters , after ail.”
number several D.S.O.’s and M.C.’s, and
there are no less than eight Mons and Gal-
lipoli ribbons among them. Only four of
the 14 are Imperial officers ; they are highly
trained, technically, of a kind of whom Aus-
tralia hasn’t many. There are three ex-
Duntroon boys on the staff, with more to
come. Duntroon officers did brilliantly in
the great War, and this, combined with their
technical and administrative knowledge,
makes them as good as any regular officer in
the world. I don’t say that some A.I.F.
officers who did brilliantly in the war
shouldn’t, be given permanent jobs if they
want them—they should. But Duntroon
officers must form the nucleus of our mili-
tary staff.
“S.A.R.”: There were a few dinkum sports
in the Hun armies. All the flying-men who
operated around the Belgian coast are agreed
that Commander Christensen, head of the
German Zeebrugge seaplane base,
was' the real article. His
squadrons were always out to
win and to offer only fair fight-
ing tactics. In the incessant
air-scrapping that used to go
on over and around Zeebrugge,
we were always sure of a good
day’s hunting under the most
sporting conditions. When a
’plane was forced down into the
water, both sides would always
give the downed crew the chance
of being picked up by a mine-
sweeper or a passing steamer.
But the squadrons operating
further north never missed an
opportunity of adding another
few names to the day’s “miss-
ing” list by gunning the help-
less machine’s crew. Their
favorite game was to “sit,” with
six or more machines, and wait
for one of our long-distance re-
connaissance machines to ap-
pear on the horizon, then make
a concerted attack. They sel-
dom succeeded, for our latest
’buses, though slow, were too
fully protected against any-
thing excepting archies. These
northern squadrons would never
attack our fellows unless the
odds were three to one in their favor ; and
even then ' our pilots generally managed to
cause quite a lot of trouble before being
winged, if they didn’t actually beat the
attackers.
*•**■■*
“Drofsereb”: During the war the identity
of British cruisers was always kept secret
when the ships were in port, even Jack’s
capbands stopping short at the letters
“H.M.S.” But when on the high seas, over-
hauling and stopping neutral shipping, the
cruiser’s name always showed prominently
on her counter, and pains were' even taken
that a stranger’s officers obtained a glimpse
of it. It might be mentioned, how-
ever, that there ■ were times when the ship’s
signwriter had enough to do, being called
upon to paint a fresh name on the stern
several times a week, so that neutrals and
others should believe that a whole squadron
of the cruiser’s sister ships were about,
“546”: Just after Pozieres we were ill
the ’ front l.ue. About dark word came of
a Hun counter-attack, and a new lieutenant
of ours immediately sent tip, as he thought,
the S.O.S. To his horror the lights were
the wrong color, and he sent a mouth-to-
mouth message along the line: “Have sent
up the wrong flare. What Shall I do?”
This went through till it came to a hard-
doer, who at once started the answer back :
“Climb up and pull the thing down.”
NO NEW PATENT.
“I suppose you do some cranky things to
make your wife go off pop?”
“No; she's a, self-starter .”
“Ike P.” : I travelled through Paris with"
my French friend Francois. He under-
stood the language and the money, and he
always insisted on giving me a detailed list
of our joint, expenditures, even to tram-fares.
He itemised everything; but he was beaten
at last. The day following a night of dis-
sipation in Montmartre I scanned his ex-
pense statement and discovered: “Man is
not Made of Stone. ... .210 francs.”
(Continued on page 18.)
ODE TO THE PICTURESQUE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN .]
The slum is often the most picturesque quarter of
a . a distance. It has usually the glamor
Of antiquity upon it.”
Prithee tell us, Lovely Lady,
Why your dainty feet wiil stray
Down erratic paths and shady,
And forsake the paven way ? -
Why the cities old and wheezy
Are the fairest to your view,
Where every prospect’s greasy
And bathing- is taboo ?
We have heard your footsteps falling,
We have seen your fairy flush
Where the East is calling, calling
For some phenyl and a brush.
And the riddle seems to rend us
Like a tiger-footed sphinx,
Oh, elucidation send us!
Tell us why the craze for stinks!
Tell us why the plumber’s torrent
Has no charm that you can see!
Why are bathrooms so abhorrent?
Why is soap j-our enemy ?
Some old dauber, richly hoary
With accumulated dirt,
Climbing up and up to glory
In a most offensive shirt,
Must have spread that creed perverted
Bidding all the cultured come
And adore, with nose averted,
The Perfection of the Slum.
Long enough that' dogma dolcsomc,
Praising mouldy Olden Time,
HIS PROFITS.
HE : “Who is that opulent-looking brute in
the car? Looks like a profiteer .”
SHE: “Hush, George. He's Society's great-
est teacher of the jazz."
Has with consequence unwholesome
Lauded adventitious grime.
Long enough aesthetic passion
Let its freakish fancy play
In a ghoulish, fungoid fashion
Battening upon decay.
Let 11s quell the tyrant’s power,
Rise, and spurning all our chains,
Shrine the Muses in a bower
With no typhoid in the drain;
Dust Romance, refurbish Glamor,
Bid them glance no more askew,
But, defying custom’s clamor,
Haunt the spick and spanly new ;
Till artistic evolution,
Bright with freshly-polished hope,
Hails the Beauty of Ablution
And the Poesy of Soap.
VICTCmA.
SYD. C.


■ ■
»a
E
&
■•■•■•■•■•■•■•■•■•■•■•a
A
urn
MIAS
VsvJ
/
3i
ftf.
vf.
t B
oxoxo
£TA
•B'S-ani
In every way
far superior.”
When absolute perfection is sought in Phono-
graphs, your search is fully rewarded and
your desires fully gratified when you acquire an
Aeolian
Vocalion
Then you have music faultlessly reproduced,
rich and clear in tone, bringing a wealth of
musical enjoyment hitherto believed impossible.
HE popularity and success of the Vocalion is due to the superiority
and effectiveness of its patented features, the ingenious inventions
and practical improvements that combine to make it the greatest
of all Phonographs. These exclusive advantages include :
The Reproducer
Constructed with utmost precision, the Vocalion reproduces
every sound-wave with life-like fidelity. Its diaphragm,
sensitive to even a breath and the heavy vibration of a full
military band, creates all tones with sweetness and faithful
quality.
The Graduola
This important and revolutionary tone-controlling device
immediately places all other Phonographs at a disadvantage,
for no other can offer such a privilege of playing a recoid
vourself with every shade of expression and tone color that
your musical feeling dictates.
The Tone Chamber
After much experimenting by acoustic scientists, this
highly-improved feature was designed, embodying a system
of tensionised wood and metal resonators, from which the tone
produced is unapproached for characteristic quality ane:
natural color.
The Automatic Stop
is a mechanical advantage allowing anyone to enjoy the
record from start to finish, undisturbed.
SEND IN THIS COUFOA
and you will be posted gratis an interesting Catalog , giving full particulars
and prices, and explaining the easy terms of purchasing an Aeolian Vocation.
Name *
Address
The Pianola Company Ply. Ltd.
384 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at 252 Collins Street, Melbourne ; 436 Queen Street, Brisbane ;
58 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
3


Mr. William Holman, recognised as one of the finest teachers of dramatic art
in Australia, writes his conscientious opinion of Clements Tonic—that it is
invaluable for the general health and strength.
MR. HOLMAN has been associated with many of the world’s greatest tragedians, and his
influence in all things pertaining to the success of true art and drama is publicly
recognised. He writes the letter published below. His successes extend beyond a
period when he was stage-manager for Wilson Barrett and other world-famed celebrities and
artists.
Conservatorium of Music,
Macquarie Street, Sydney,
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD. October, 1918.
Some time since—after a prolonged cold and sore threat, I experi-
enced great nervous depression, loss of appetite, and want of energy.
I tried many medicines to relieve this condition, but without much
success.
Latterly I tried Clements Tonic, and am feeling now greatly bene-
fited—appetite returning, voice restored to a great extent, and a general
feeling < f good health and spirits.
.Clements Tonic Ltd;, Rozelle,- N.S.W.
I can confidently recommend Clements Tonic.
You may use my testimonial throughout the press of Australasia.
Yours faithfully,
(Signed) WILLIAM HOLMAN, Sen.
Professional People in any calling, especially Scholars, Students studying for examinations,
where good health is essential, should always keep this splendid medicine on hand for the
relief of weakness due to Over-study, Want of Sleep, Poor Appetite, Unstrung Nerves,
Anasmia or Poor Blood, Headache, Neuralgic Affections, Indigestion or Impaired Digestive Pro-
cesses. It should always be kept in the house.
All Chemists and Stores sell it in Australia and New Zealand.
It does good because it is good. Get it to-day and health at the same time.
You will not regret it.
At Wensleydale (Vic.) a school committee
of Prigs and Pharisees prohibited the hang-
ing in the academy of the portrait of a
military ex-pupil, because the committee
“‘regarded a soldier as a murderer” and his
calling as contrary to “the teachings of
Christ.” The Bible will have to be again
revised for the Prigs and Pharisees 'of
Wensleydale. Then they shall read :
Saul has murdered his thousands and David his
ten thousands.— l. Samuel, chap. 18, verse 7.
Tile Spirit of the Lord came upon him [Samson]
and he went to Ashkelon and murdered thirty men.
— Judges , chap 14, verse 19.
Asa had an army of murderers that bare targets
and Spears, out of Judah 300,000 and out of Ben-
jamin 280,000. All these were mighty murderers. —
//. Chronicles, chap. 14, verse 8.
There was a certain man in Casarea called Cor-
nelius, chief of 100 murderers —a devout man and
nne that feared God with all his house. — Acts, chap.
10, verse 1.
Word came unto the chief captain of the mur-
derers. .. .who immediately took murderers and cen-
turions. . . .and when they saw the chief captain and
the murderers they left beating of Paul— Acts, chap.
21. verses 31, 32.
But what shall be done to make Numbers 32
satisfactory to the Prigs and Pharisees of
Wensleydale this paper doesn’t know.
Moses said: “If ye will go armed before the Lord
to war, then afterwards ye shall return and be
guiltless before the Lord. But if ye will not do
•so, behold ye have sinned against the Lord; and be
sure your sin will find you out.”
The best The Bulletin can suggest is a
note to the effect that Moses had evidently
been drinking.
* * # *
“Sam-Major”: Strolling through Los
Angeles, on my way back to Aussie, I was
accosted by a man who said he was a
Digger, too. I thought it was the usual
HIS LEGACY.
HE (relating his experiences): “When I was
eight years old I teas left an orphan.”
SHE: “You poor thing! What did you do
with it?”
confidence trick, to be followed by a sting for
a drink or a dollar. The man no doubt
read these thoughts and forthwith produced
his discharge, showing him to be dinkum —
a machine-gunner w T ho had been discharged
after being badly gassed. He then per-
suaded me to accompany him to his lodg-
ings, where he displayed numerous news-
paper cuttings wherein he was depicted and
photographed as a lion-tamer, gun-man and
“expert lecturer” on the Great War. As this
business was being worn out he told me
he had contracted to go to Mexico to fight
for Villa, as a machine-gunner, at 10 dollars
a day, to be paid in gold. When questioned
KEEPING IN HER CLASS.
“That was a pretty old bird took you out
to supper last night.”
“Dearie, it is only a pretty old bird that can
pay for my sort of supper.”
as to what guarantee he had of being paid,
his airy response was ‘“No pay, no fight.”
After his- discharge this adventurous youth
of 23 had worked his passage from Australia
to California. What a handful he must
have been to his officers and non-coms, when
there was nothing doing !
* * * *
“Dido”: When Lieut. Donald Hop (alias)
came home from the wars, none the worse,
barring a substitute hand that would grip a
glass as well as one to the manner born, his
schoolmates and old friends in the suburb
(south from Melbourne city) resolved tq give
him a rousing welcome, with as much of the
usual as man might hold despite the high
cost of drinking. But off there in the hurly-
burly of clashing continents, Don had learned
to accept the fact that there are more seri-
ous things in life than Whisky, and although
he was a grateful warrior and a cheerful
man and brother throughout the festival,
he contrived by the use of subtle art to keep
himself on the right side of a great quantity
of strong drink, with the result that at a quar-
ter to midnight, when the revels ended, the
guest of the evening was the only sober man
in the crowd. The others were full to the
teeth with hot and rebellious liquors, but
for all that saw their duty clearly enough.
They must first of all take good old' Dowry
home- Anyone could see with a parboiled
eye that Donny was hopelessly pickled. It
would never do to allow a wounded soldier
and a “sholly goo’ feller” to go home alone
in the pitiable state in which their beloved
friend found himself. So they started to
take Don home, and Don submitted out of
the goodness of his heart. But after nar-
rowly escaping being locked up, and when
two broils with sardonic cabmen had been
averted by a miracle, Don ducked his riot-
ous companions and went off on his ace.
Hours later, when the dawn was percolating
up the eastern sky, there came many jubi-
lant men clamoring at the front door of the
house of Hop. When the portal was opened
a man in khaki was thrust into the hall,
loud voices bade him an affectionate good-
night, and silence fell slowly. The man
sitting with his back to the hallstand, already
fast asleep, was a soldier, very drunk, very
dirty, very wet, but a total stranger. Don,
who had admitted him, was quite good-
natured about it. “You see,” he explains,
“I recognised that in their refulgent minds
my good friends at length had brought me
home.”
Old Sydney, still struggling with the im-
possible, is likely to be blessed with a tram-
line in narrow York-street to relieve the
pressure on other lines. Unfortunately, York-
street, Clarence-street and Sussex-street
all empty their contents into George-street at
last, so there is no permanent relief any-
where —-only tem-
porary divergence.
Even in cities that
are much better
devised than Syd-
ney it is impossible
to put the entire
traflic on the sur-
face, just as it is
impossible for
everybody to lead
a cottage existence
on the g roiin .1
floor. There isn’t
enough surface
within reach of the
business centre.
London in places
has four storeys of
traffic —one on the
street and three
tubes underground,
one below the
othe r. Glasgow
has three —o ve r-
head, street level
and underground.
Sydney tries to
lumber along with
on e, though its
narrow ways make
it specially unfitted
for that sort of
thing. The bless-
ing of the tube
system is that a
new city can be
laid out under-
ground without the
least regard to the
angularity of the
old place above
ground. There are
no lands to be
resumed, except for
stations ; no old buildings to be bought and
demolished; no ejected population to be
housed elsewhere; and no people, horses and
dogs to make speed impossible and demand
damages when they get in the way.
“0.K.”: I am tickled by the announce-
ment that a “brilliant lawyer,” defending
the “French Deeming,” points out to an
interviewer that his client was formerly in
a lunatic asylum and should
now be regarded as an insane
person. Did anyone question
the insanity of a man who is
shown to have been correspond-
ing w T ith hundreds of women
with a view to murder,? It
goes without saying that the
French Deeming is as mad as
his English model was, and will
be duly executed on account of
the form his insanity takes.
The Law doesn’t kill such
abnormal persons for the sake
of vengeance, or with the idea
of deterring other lunatics from
following their example. It
kills them because they are
dangers to the community. But,
unfortunately, the Law is a
hypocrite who doesn’t, admit
that the alleged sacredness of
human life is all my eye and
Betty Martin. The Law pro-
tends that it makes a point of
killing only sane criminals.
Consequently the plea of in-
sanity may save influential
persons from the scaffold, if
necessary, even as the plea of
kleptomania is advanced on
behalf of the well-to-do. If
Laudru were a duke his in-
sanity would get him out of
danger, but being a mere commonplace per-
son of Deeming tendencies he will be guillo-
tined. For myself, I say a goo.d job, too.
The injustice would be in permitting such
an undesirable creature to live.
* * * *
“Anzac”: “Hamer” on self-inflicted
wounds (B. 5/6/T9) reminds me of a war-
weary one who fired through his own instep.
Captain Walsh (W.A.) was the medical
officer who rendered first aid. He asked the
hero, “What got you—-sniper?” “I think it
must have been, sir,” was the reply. “Well,
countered Walsh, “you ought to know, for
he was pretty close to you !” He had spotted
the singed sock. Luckily for the patient,
the medico was hit shortly after and was
thus unable to follow up the case. Capt.
Simpson. M,C-, a school-teacher from Albury
and a fine officer, was also after his scalp ;
but an unlcky h.e. silenced him too. The
s.i.w. warrior was sent to Egypt, and was
pampered by visitors while undergoing treat -
men? for his wound. After being discharged
from hospital, he became a m tht
GAI P Later on he was invalided back
to Sydney and g?t a “cushy” job on home
service. He still retains the job?. f
men with M.C.’s and M.M.’s are looking toi
work. But when he met our old sergeant-
major and cheekily offered to shake h •
the s.-m. put his hand behind his back, and
promised that, if he ever dared to speak to
him again, he’d knock him down.
“Dial Sight”: The Australian officer who
thought he was aping the Tommy regular
officer in his devotion to “discipline and
spit-and-polish was a worse infliction than
the Tommy officer himself. I remember
one incident very well. Our divvy had
come out for a spell, after a long and mob
gruelling period in the gun-pits, and our o
Fuss-and-Feathers, who had been scarcer
seen past the railhead, had everyone on edge
by ordering an orgy of spit-and-polish. ine
air was tropical when Birdie reviewed us
in full marching order near Albert. Stop-
ping at our sub-section he asked the sergeant
liow lie was enjoying his rest. The ser-
geant. ignoring the retinue of brass-hats,
told the G.O.C. that he hadn’t noticed any
rest and gave him the strength of _ things.
Feathers, of course, pooh-poohed this; but
when, 24 hours later, the toilet business was
called off and leave extended, we knew where
the order had come from.
“Hermes”: I don’t know whether my nose
is growing more sensitive with age, but to
me it seems that Sydney’s food shops are
more smelly with the rolling years. I
passed three butchers’ shops to-day and
found the best of reasons for accelerating
my pace. The aroma was awful. All fish
shops have their bad periods, but the bad
period of the State fish depots seems to last
the whole 24 hours. I like John Dory, but 1
am afraid to buy it from these shops since
I discovered that the catch is not cleaned
till after the trawler’s arrival in port. Un-
gutted fish must deteriorate. Why cannot
our trawlers work like those of England and
Scotland, where the fish is cleaned on the
boat immediately it is caught? If it is
necessary to clean it at once in a cold
climate like that of England and Scotland,
it must be doubly so here. The Government
does well to give us cheap food, but why
should it be nasty?
“Johnno” : This is how life is made easy
for the navigator. The Torres Strait chart
denotes a beacon at Bramble Cay, and an-
other at Stephen Island. Perfectly accurate,
no doubt, excepting that at Bramble Cay
the beacon is down flat on the sand half the
A BIT SLOW.
THE REFUSED: “Yet you said I was a model
young man.”
THE ASKED: “Yes —but a 1912 pattern.”
time, and the Island one has vanished alto-
gether—if it was ever there. Stephen
islanders say they’ve never seen anything
in the way of a beacon ; but as there have
been several wrecks there in the past, and
as said wrecks were not at all unprofitable
to the brown-skinned residents, it’s possible
that the warning sign may have been spirited
out of the way. In any case, however, it’s
time a concrete structure, with, say, a steel
superstructure to carry the beacon, was
erected at Bramble Cay, now that shipping
traffic is getting back to normal. The present
flimsy strutted pole is useless, and Bram-
maski (to give it its native label) has
already more than its share of ship skel-
etons.
THE REFORMER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN .]
The harbor was a dreaming lake
Of quiet water brimming
Where, all alone, a kittiwake
Was delicately swimming.
Her quick feet made a double fret,
Dark threads upon a coverlet,
Whose level 'blue was overset
With points of silver trimming.
The blue eyes of the sleepy sea
Smiled lazily.
The kittiwake swam here and there
With purposeful endeavor;
Her dainty consequential air
Showed pride in being- clever;
Her breast she knew without a doubt
Had rubbed the ocean wrinkles out,
And all the waters round about
Would now be smooth for ever.
The grey eyes of the watching sea
Smiled thoughtfully.
The hurrying dawn was pale with pain.
Wind-furies, harshly crying,
Tossed on the pier a draggled skein
Of feathers, slackly lying.
Like a street hag whose hideous sleep
Marks the drear end that high days reap,
The kittiwake lay still —a heap
Of brave dreams, drably dying.
The green eyes of the wanton sea
Smiled carelessly.
MAORILANI).
O. N. GILLESPIE.


supplied by
m
l
P
WorKs
Parramatta
y
WA
il//
I//M
w
n
m
IMPORTED *
Use
Why
Then
Meggitt Ltd.’s Linseed Oil—Maturity Guaranteed.
CATALOG No. 2 MAILED FREE.
‘Full particulars from Agents: Messrs. Harrisons, Ramsay Ltd., 666 Bourke Street, Melbourne. Messrs. R. S. Exton & Co., Queen Street
Brisbane. Messrs. W. Adams & Co., King Street, Perth. Messrs. Clarkson Limited, Bundle Street, Adelaide. Messrs. F. W. Heritage & Co>., Laun-
ceston and Hobart. Or
MEGGITT LTD.
WORKS: PARRAMATTA
(The Pioneer Linseed Oil and Linseed Oil Meal
Manufacturers of Australia).
26 King Street, SYDNEY
GGITT
yflStEDOiiMflK
Mi
The Bop on the Bag
guaranteea quality.


Hotel de Luxe .
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
The Healthiest and most Beautiful Spot on
the Harbor. As warm in Winter as the South
of France.
Recommended by the Minister for Health and
the Medical Faculty. Finest Cuisine. Hot
and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Beautiful Beaches,
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths,
Fishing.
Tariff, from 12/6 per day, or
£3/10/- per week.
Tels.: I*3ool, 3002.
Apply Manager.
SPORTING
CARTRIDGES
Our Special Offer.
The Celebrated
SOVEREIGN, 21/- per 100
SMOKELESS, 20/6 per 100— in soo lots
CARTRIDGE, 20/- per 100-imooo lots.
This is the finest smokeless cartridge made.
12-Gauge, loaded, double-chilled shot, and
Nobel’s Empire Smokeless Powder.
Shot Nos. 2, S, 4,5, 6, 8 and 10.
We have the largest stocks in Victoria
of Winchester, Remington and Dominion
Cartridges. Send for special list.
McEWAN’S,
Melbourne’s Busiest Hardware Store,
119-125 Elizabeth St, Melbourne.
“King George IV
tUH vp WHISKY
THE TOP NOTCH SCOTCH
A SAFE PROTECTOR
ABORIGINAHTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Half-moon”: “McNorth” (B. 24/4/’l9)
wrongly describes the Torres Strait pearlshell diver
as “stumbling along the sea-floor as best he can while
the air-pump 1; gger drifts above him.” As a matter
of fact the diver regulates his air-valve to float him,
say, five or six feet from the bottom, and, watching
the sea-floor as he goes, is towed along by the gently-
drifting lugger. The shell is well camouflaged, but
the hunter's practised eye discovers a patch quickly;
then, signalling with his life-line, he gets more line
and drops to the floor by using his valve. After
which the boat “hangs” until he has “made his
catch.”
HOW THEY'RE MOSTLY SEEN.
LITTLE BILL: “Did you ever see a sea-serpent. Captain?"
CAPTAIN SEASPBAY: “Yes, dozens of ’em."
LITTLE B. : “Where, Captain?”
CAPTAIN S. : “Through the glass, my hoy, through the glass."
“\. Borig” : Wasps have a keen sense of
smell-equal to a dog’s, perhaps. Saw one a few
, ~ ~ , . , . . ,
days ago make a raid on the web of a big spider
in a hollow in the side of a tree. I frightened the
wasp away for a few seconds, and the spider took to
his heels quick arid lively, got round the tree and
flattened himself under a piece of loose bark, well
in. The wasp came back, ran all over the web,
without getting stuck (which had me beat), poked
his nose into every corner of it and finally got on
the scent of the spider, and with his nose to the bark,
located him in 13 seconds. But the intended victim
was safe, as his nibs couldn’t get in after him or
scare him out. I r-ecently hunted a mason-wasp off
his load and dragged the paralysed spider along the
verandah about three yards. The wasp returned to
where lie had left the spider, nosed along the scent,
found his prey, slung him underneath and marched
off with him agaiin.
“Barcoo”: Talking about the sandstorms
of nor’-west N. S. Wales. Most’ station buildings in
these parts have a protective stockade, built of
shrubs, boughs and lignum, 10 to 12 feet high. In
a bad storm so dark is it even at midday that the
gloom within the buildings has to be dispersed with
lamps or candles. Any traveller, when overtaken by
such a storm (one peculiarity of the wind, by the way,
is that often it moves quite slowly), has to camp at
once and build a break of some sort. On one occa-
sion a drover making for Hergott Springs (S.A.) with
500 fats off the Georgina was negotiating a dry
stage of nearly 100 miles and had got almost
through when the camp was overwhelmed by a record
sand-storm. The thirsty cattle threw in the sponge,
laid down and allowed the visitation to do its worst.
The horses were wiser and kept on the move. After
nearly 24 hours the blow petered out. Scattered
over a radius of a mile on the plain were numerous
sand-mounds., They were the cattle. Nineteen
head were all that reached water.
* * * *
“Pick”: On the Murrumbidgee the other
day I discovered that ants are whales for water.
Troops of them came traversing the sun-heated
stretch of bare rock that divided the river edge
from the bush, until they reached the ripple-lapped
sand, and there they clustered, greedily sucking up
the moisture. Meat-ants, sugars and other castes
jostled each other in the business of refreshing them-
selves. Many went in for a swim and apparently
enjoyed it; but having, washed off the dust and
cleaned their teeth they grumblingly started on the
return journey in the heat, and old feuds were recom-
menced. As they departed I wondered how the
tribes miles back on the scorched plain got on for a
wet.
* * * »
“J.K.”: The Maoris had a pretty bad
time in Hawera (M.L.) during the ’flu epidemic,
and some queer experiences befel the V.A.D.’s who
helped look after them. Word came through one
day that some bad cases were to be found in a
neighboring pa, and a couple of the girls went out
by motor to bring ’em in. One native was dis-
covered huddled up beneath a bunk, and when
dragged into the light the young ladies discovered
that he was clothed only in a singlet that reached
half-way up his neck. “You got te pyjama?” Janet
shrieked. “No,” said her suffering brown brother,
rolling his eyeballs; “on’y te ’fru.”
“Peter F.” : Near my humpy stands an old
set of poppet-legs on a once-famous gold-mine. (Old
poppet-legs and heaps of broken bottles are common
sights here on the W.A. fields, all telling tales of
fond reflections.) Of these particular legs a whist-
ling Jack or butcher-bird has possession, but one
morning when he was away a hawk perched himself
up in Jack’s favorite pew. I remarked to my dog
that if Jack came home and caught that blanker
up there we’d see some fun, but Wosser has a
“snout” on poor old Jack and only yawned. I
offered to bet him a , quid to nothing that if Jack —
Hoopla! Here ne comes! Steady, steady, Jack.
Uppercut him ! Keep him up ; keep him up, I say !
You’re gone a million if he gets yer on the ground.
Keep him up; keep the cow up, man! Ah, that’s
good! By the smothering Moses that’s good! Yer
a cockbird every time, Jack. Now, finish him —
Mm , Ah> that>B done it! .... Jack flies grace-
fu]iy bade to his beloved pulpit and sings his favorite
hymn, “Wo won’t go home till morning.” Here,
you —you four-legged, useless mongrel—go and find
my hat. It’s half a mile over there somewhere,
* * * t *
“Te Whare” : Seems queer that Australia
has not gone in for the cultivation of the eape
gooseberry on a large and systematic scale. The
plant, which grows wild in most coastal districts,
requires rich soil, but apparently no great depth
of it. Cattle and horses will eat the succulent
growth to the ground in seasons of drought, but the
rabbit doesn’t seem to fancy it. Bell-magpies, satin-
birds and parrots feed on the berries when ripe, but
if the fruit is gathered when it is a little green it
will ripen, and so is saved from the robbers. Raw
FRIENDLY COUNSEL.
CLERK: “I’d like to get off to-morrow, sir?”
BOSS: “Why? Mother-in-law dead?”
CLERK ( appreciating the joke): “No, sir—going to get one to-morrow, sir.”
BOSS (who did it himself once): “Come to work, Nibs — you take my advice and come
to work!”
or stewed the cape gooseberry is good. It also
makes an excellent preserve, scarce in the market
and high in price. The plant, so far as I am
aware, has no particular insect pest or fungoid dis-
ease. A kindred variety, the Chinese-lantern plant,
is ornamental in gardens, but the berries are of
doubtful edibility, like the handsome red fruit
which decks the “strawberry tree” {Arbutus). The
latter has been responsible for many a pain under
the juvenile pinny.
“Werrimee”: With fox skins at 20s. each
(first-class) and dingo scalps at £6 apiece, the
professional hunter is having the time of his exist-
ence. One man recently secured 63 foxes in a
night. There is a hungry market for both fox and
dingo skins, as well as for other furs, and the ever-
rising price had added greatly to the regular army
of pursuers. Yet the beasts are increasing so fast
that several pastoralists have given up sheep-breeding
and stocked their runs with cattle. Now the dingo
has started to bring down young calves. The most
popular haunt of this bushranger is a wide strip
from the north-east to the north-west of N.S.W. ;
and Reynard is getting out along the same line. It
ought to be a good stunt for some of the returned
snipers—-like “Arizona” Ryan, the Yank who seems to
have been given the right to “shoot up” demented
Sydney Chows while the police look on.
* * *
W. B. Alexander, who recently returned
to the Perth Museum after a spell as “abstractor”
for the Institute of Science and Industry, has de-
scribed a species of ’possum new to science found on
the Violet Valley station in the Far Nor’-West. This
fellow, on whom Alexander has inflicted the title of
Wyulda squamaeovidatus, is marked off from the
other phalangers by having a tail covered with scales
instead of hairs; the second three-quarters of his
name is the Latin way of breaking the news, while
the first quarter is an abo. name for the ’possum.
Apart from his tail, Wyulda stands about half-way
between the common ’possums and the cuscuses found
in Cape York Peninsula, as well as in Papua and
the Celebes.
* * * *
“Kolmac”: Three of us were in a beer-
joint in London—a Yank, a Tommy and Digger. llow
the conversation turned to horses I don’t know, but
the Tommy was of opinion that he’d struck the
worst ever foaled. “Buck!” he said; “ah, chums,
this ’un could buck. He bucked for nearly two
hours and then threw me.” The Yank laughed.
“See here, guy, you don’t know what a buckin’
harse is. I was with an outfit at one time in
Texas, when an undersized cow-puncher struck the
trail. He goes right up to the boss showman and
clinched for a competition with a young hustler he
had from Arizona. It was arranged for the first
night we hit a town. Well, the contest started at
three in the afternoon, and when I went to bed just
on sun-up the performers were still at it. They
went for three days and three nights, and then the
tired-out Arizona kid did the aeroplane act. Yeah,
it was some stunt, believe me.” “What!” says Bill-
jim. “That the longest you’ve seen a horse buck!
In Queensland I was out breaking-in a few for the
sales. We had a bloke called Blagard Murphy.
Blagard roped a bonzer-lookin’ chestnut mare. As
soon as the boss got his blinkers on her he sez to
Blagard: ‘Watch ’er, boy, watch ’er.’ Buck!
Saints of hell, how that mare bucked! At night
we lit fires so as to give her a charnst, and, finally,
we had to shoot her to get Murphy off.”
* * * *
“Cliloe”: Even after all the rain w!hich
has fallen in the Lachlan Valley the lagoon' near
Forbes is at a very low level —about 40 feet below
the highest flood-mark. Local landholders are of
opinion that the. water Supply of the N. S. Wales
Western districts is growing less each year. If
so it is due to carelessness in not planting timber.
Mallee and kurrajong have proved good drought-
feed, and have saved the lives of tens of thousands
of sheep. Yet soldier settlements are being sedu-
lously cleared of these woods and left as bare as a
bald head.
Foxes are particularly bad on the Murray,
about the big Nor’west Bend, where the river takes
its final turn southward to the sea. In spite of
attempted poisoning, farmers report to the Adelaide
papers a lambing of only 30 or 40 per cent., the
difference between that and 80 being put down to
the foxes, which, says one sufferer, “eat the lambs
as fast as they are dropped.”
THE DRINK QUESTION.
“Wotcher pointer ’ ave?”
“Gecko” : Let “Steve Hart” know (be was
asking in a recent Bulletin) that I have seen and
photographed a brace of pure white vixen foxes.
One is still at Granville. Both were captured in
South Aus. There is a £lO note and the pick of
the cubs to be lifted from me for an uninjured
white male.
(Continued on page 22.)
THE SETTLEMENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN .]
Bill had been “seeing” Mary Jane
For seven years or eight,
And. ev’ry Sunday, shine or rain,
“Sat up” with her till late.
In true bush style the rugged swain
Then asked for Dad’s consent:
“It’s time that me and Mary Jane
Had made a settlement.
“I want a missus bad enough
The gal knows that all. right;
‘This waitin’ years and years is rough,’
She sez the other night.”
Then up spoke Dad: “How do ye stand?
Is all yer ringin' done?
An’ have ye fenced an’ cleared the land,
An’ made a poddy run?
“Bill, have ye put in feed fer sows,
An’ built a sty an’ shed?
A good, strong yard fer milkin’ cows,
An’ sowed a loosen bed?”
Bill’s face was clouded for a while :
He sighed and scratched his head ;
Then came the glimmer of a smile
That broadened as he said:
“Waal, yaas, I’ve done the most er that—
I’ve cleared the thistles, too;
But there’s some grubbin’ on the flat
That Mary Jane could do.”
x.s.w.
G. D. MacDONALD.


HOW
DO
YOU
AMUSE
YOURSELF
THESE
COLD
WINTER
EVENINGS
9
If you purchase one of our Player
Pianos it will help you pass the
time pleasantly between teatime
and bedtime.
You not only amuse yourself, but every
member of your family can fully enjoy a
Chopin Nocturne or the latest popular
American Song.
Send to us for our
111 ustrated Art
Catalogue.
We will supply you
with a Player Piano
on easy terms if you
wish.
~ .. » '
W. H. PALING & CO. LTD
338 George Street, SYDNEY.
And at BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, TOOWOOMBA and LISMORE.
THE “BOSS” HANDPIECE!
Its Marvellous Record for Economy has made it the Favorite with Woolgrowers throughout Australia.
Its Cool, Light Running and its Fast, Clean Cutting has made it popular with Shearers the world over.
The above are not advertising catch phrases-they are absolute facts that stand unquestioned to-day among
woolgrowers, contractors and shearers throughout the world.
During the past seasons we have been unable to supply one=tenth the demand for the
AIR-COOLED HANDPIECE
_ . - , , . t n i . • « o+wvn rr oacv IpVPTfI.CTP. The teilSiOll-pi-
The fork drives from behind the bearing with a strong, t^ e a^reXcec
npvpr P-Pts out of balance. ' Everything is self-levelling. Heat and motion are reancec
1
RESULT! Saves time in. expert** and gables the.shea~to put
ZhTaTong with Teas' effort "and reduces his outlay for combs endl cutter,; “nsiderably
Hastens the cut-out which pleases both the woolgrower and contractor and as testn
” nu_ coutaaors, saves them at least 75% in cost of upkeep as against any othe,
handpiece they have ever used.
mss
.
set.? ;;;•; ws? tear, swzxx »., ,*
of new handpieces.
If you are fitting your shed with new machines, put in a Cooper Plant throughout
If your old Handpieces need Repairing, fit your shed with new Cooper Air-cooled Handpieces.
It will pay you to write to us to-day for Catalog and full particulars.
Cooper Engineering' Co. Etd.
134 Sussex Street, Sydney.
480 Collins Street, Melbourne.
‘iSid?. Ltd". Perth*' W.' Hart & L?ince^ V ‘' & Son Ltd., Hobart
Australasian Implement & H.F. 00,,


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
head office —
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
I
mK^/-*mrna
a
JffAOr
HARK
MllsK
MEk&OUEM,
Our Delicious Chocolates—
FUSSY GIRL
Fancy Boxes.
FUSSY CAKES
Vanilla, Nut and Nut Milk.
OTHER EXCLUSIVE LINES
IN FANCY BOXES— Louise
(very large), Sepia. Y ou’re in
Love, Tableaux and Birthday.
Equal to Best Imported.
CONFECTION IN PERFECTION.
Wholesale only—
McINTYRE BROS., Melbourne.
Inter-State Agents:
DAVID BLASHKI. Pitt Street, Sydnev
MADDOX & LAURENCE, Perth
J. P. WILSON LTD. Brisbane.
W. R. LANCSFCRD, Adelaide.
Crouger : Up North, on the Daintree
Rivei-, the blacks are having a great jubilee. Prime
carpet-snakes have taken to climbing the clumps of
trees where the flying-foxes lodge. In the early
morning black brother goes the rounds and spears
the heavily-fed reptiles. Yesterday they got six
while 1 was poking round. These were cut up and
boiled in treacle-tins. The meat did not strike me
•is tempting. Mostly the abos. roast the crawlers.
Mat stones are heated, a snake is coiled on top
of them, other flat stones are piled on top again,
and the heap is covered with ashes. The dish is
turned out as snow-white flesh, not unlike boiled flsh.
he young bucks up this way won’t eat flying-fox—
reckon it stops their growth—but the older folk
gorge on the winged pest. Age fights for its recom-
pense.
* * * *
Billy T. : It is now some years since I
was a prospector for coal in the hills of Gippsland,
10 or 12 miles out of Morwell, but at that time
there were many lyre-birds on the slopes of the con-
siderable ravines where the seams were located,
and if it is true that this pedantic bird is a great
mimic, those of which I had experience must have
had considerable if not exclusive acquaintance with
wife-beating, murder and sudden death. The noise
they made (and they made it pretty well all night
long) suggested nothing but assault with violence,
and we heard the cries of the victims interspersed
with hideous, guttural rows which the fell assassin
might have made. At first we all arose (there
were three of us in the tent) on hearing the lifelike
imitation of a large man throttling his aunt, but
investigation revealed nothing but a few lyre-birds
furkeying across the patches of sunlight among the
heather. After that one or another, still uncon-
vinced and unable to sleep amid sounds of death and
torture, would step out to make inquiries. But
eventually all were so hardened that we might have
CLEARING NECESSARY.
TOWN COUSIN: “How did you like that gentleman's selection, Cousin William?”
COUSIN WILLIAM (in from the backblocks ): “Well, it could do with a bit o' burnin' off.”
been trusted to remain quiescent in our bunks in
the presence of a Hun outrage of enormous propor-
tions. Then came the night when George awoke
the other two with his vehehient abuse of the in-
fernal lyre. The jovial bird seemed just about as
usual to me, and Jim merely cursed George for
making a hullaballoo over nothing, and went to
sleep again. But in the course of the following
day George was amply justified, Donald, a half-
wild settler in the vicinity, having dragged hia
wife past our dormitory to the brink of the gorge,
where he tied her to a tree to witness one of his
frequent but abortive efforts to hang himself with a
decayed half-inch clothes-line.
“Six-aud-Eight”: Baldwiek and his mate,
motoring to Cunnamulla, found some time after
night fell that they had got off the road and were
following a bush track. They decided to keep on
rather than try to find their way back in the dark-
ness. The track ended at a bush dwelling, and as
they approached it a woman and two well-grown
girls rushed from the building. They gave one
glance at Baldwiek, then dashed frantically inside
again. Baldwiek was hurt, for, though an obese
brewer and baldheaded as well, his delusion was
that he had a position and an appearance which
made him just it with women. . That bush
women should on sight of him act as if
they had seen Medusa’s head astounded Baldwiek.
Having presently reappeared, the ladies excused the
unusualness of their first appearance by explaining
that the glare of the car headlights through the
uncurtained windows, combined with the noise of
the engine, had made them think the house was
on fire. Then Baldwiek realised that the ladies
had rushed out in their nighties.
“Dr. Nil” : “Wandi’s” method of catching
black duck with a fishing-line (B. 22/5/’l9) is not
new. Baron Munchausen knew it; but he econo-
mised. He used an indigestible bait, and in course
of time this passed on its usual way and a second
duck swallowed it, and so on. Thus in the morn-
ing the Baron pulled in his line with 20 ducks
threaded on it.
“Scrub Owl”: I’m a cocky, scratching for
a crust in the Mallee east of the Murray, in S. Aus.,
on the edge of the broad, open plains which stretch
back from the river in places 10 to 15 miles. The
farmers travelling to and from the stream at night
often see on the plains a strange light, which looks
like a burning lamp or a small camp-fire. The illu-
mination may be first noticed at a distance of a
mile or two away, but on approaching to about
200 yards it disappears. The phenomenon is mostly
seen just before rain and always in different places
and quite stationary. There is no human being or
habitation within miles of where the lights are
often seen. They have been observed for. many years
and people now take little notice of them." Some
investigators have done their best to solve the pro-
blem, but without success. Is there such a thing
as a night mirage? Mirages are often seen here in
the daytime.
* * * *
“Kunasarta” : During the drought of 1918-9
the spiders of the bush were abnormally busy. Some
of the webs stretched between trees from 20 to
30 feet apart, and are of stouter build than the
ordinary web, and yellowish in color. ft saw a
golden tit entangled in one, and all efforts to free
itself were vain.
* * * *
“Cobba Cobba”: Unlike the Australian
abo. the average Papuan nig. has a dread of alcoholic
liquor, and under no circumstances can he be induced
to drink either spirits or beer. Of- course, there
are exceptions, and one of them Was Harry, a Wood-
lark Island boy. He had been blackbirded to the
Queensland sugar plantations at an earlv age, and
there acquired a taste for grog. One night at
Busai gold claim, Woodlark Island, Harry pitched
me a great tale of how sick he felt, and how no-
thing but rum would cure him. The other nigs,
stood by, and. watched with open mouths and horror-
stricken eyes while their colleague got outside a
couple of stiff nips. They absolutely' refused!: the
boy admission to the huts, and for the remainder
of their time on the job they looked upon him as a
debil-debil all same white-man yaryoola (drunk).
HIGHLY RECOMMENDED.
THE PILOT : My own dear lad, Cyril Drinkwater, was in your battation Did yon
happen to know him —a quiet boy?”
THE DIG.: Know Cyril? Spare me days, I teas two months in clinic with him!”
“Half-moon”: Had dinner with some far
Northerners on a Cape York cocoanut plantation
. recently. This was the menu :—
Turtle Soup.
Fried King Fish.
Turtle Steak in Gravy.
Turtle Eggs. Tern’s Eggs (any style).
Wild Sucker (roasted).
Boiled Turkey.
Mashed Granadilla Flesh.
Paw-paws. Bananas.
Rice and Milk.
The curtain-raiser was whisky and cold eocoanut
milk. I believe even the whisky was Australian. It
tasted good enough to be.
“A.M.1.”: The reason I cannot agree with
“FY7’s” assertion as to man’s inability to tame
Hack ducks is that I’ve had several of these birds
as pets, and except for an occasional flutter through
the bush they live peacefully with the other poultry.
As a matter of fact you can tame anything but the
income-tax.
“H.V.E.”: In the list of the world’s most
deadly snakes I put the king and brown binocellate
(spectacled) cobras, the common trait and the chain
viper, all of India; the rattlesnake and copperhead
of. North America ; and our own death adder. Cer-
tain African serpents may have a claim to inclusion
iri the list; but I think the above are the' pick of
the skilled poisoners.' According to Wall, the
venom of the king cobra or hamadryad can kill a
human being in 20 minutes, while an elephant may
succumb to it in three hours. Death from the
bite of the binocellate cobra may take from one-
half hour to three hours, while the common krait
can put your light out in three hours, or less. The
horror known as the chain, or Russell’s, viper, goes
bv no less than 15 native names and ranges prac-
tically throughout. 'the whole of India. It is also
famous (or infamous) as “the daboia,” and . its Bite
is indubitably fatal to man. If Rogers is correct,
the venom of all the above crawlers is, however, bee-
poiso.n beside that of the sea-snake known to science
as Knhydrina valakaclycn, which (so he avers) is
eight times .more potent than that of the binocellate
cobra,. Our sea squirmers include 12 species, all
reputedly highly venomous.
* * .#
“Bung”; When heavy seas thrash the
shore-front the crab that inhabits the crannies and
fissures of the rocks receives a buffeting that no
unarmored creature could withstand.; but to him
the -pelting is nothing. He has a heavy, arched
shell, with indented edges forming counter arches
that will resist almost any force, and his legs
and. feelers can be folded away-into roofed - grooves
like pairs of spectacles. His eyes, too, on movable
stalks,, can be.withdrawn within projecting sockets
and his mouth is closed like a double door over which
his steely claws fold in the manner of protecting
bars. Thus encased he can be tossed about like a
stone, and receive as little injury, arid his natural
enemy, the groper, cannot detect him among- the
showers of pebbles. There comes a time, though,
when the crab falls upon evil days— i.e., when he has
outgrown his protective armor. During the subse-
quent soft-shell period he cowers tremblingly in
some dark corner, fearsome mostly of attacks from
his kindred, for the crab is an insatiate cannibal
that gives no quarter to any undressed brother whom
he may encounter.
‘‘Wanderlust” : Why is it that, some South
Sea Islanders will clear out with great earnestness
at the sight of a skull, while others, coming- from
the same group, will use the headpiece as a decora-
tion? Some y£ars ago, I was in charge of a trad-
ing station in Vavau (Tong-an Group) and with a
gang of Malieta boys was digging an overflow trench
from the bathroom to the cliff-edge, a bluff over-
looking the lagoon. Presently they unearthed some
human bones; there was a hair-raising yell and the
boys took to the mountains one-feller quick-time.
Brought a skull to my quarters, and after polishing
the cranium a trifle I placed on it a dilapidated
white helmet at an angle of 45, the stump of a
cigar between the jaws, and the relic gave quite a
unique appearance to the dugput. Next morning
the boy responsible for early coffee ambled in, got
one square look at my new hat-rack, let go a shriek,
shot the coffee well inside my pyjamas, and I never
saw him again. He dived -. through the mosquito-
curtained window and r suppose he’s going yet.
‘ Kunasarta”: Does any Abo. writer
know anything about the haunts of the bilby, a
species of burrowing marsupial, once common on
the western river-flats j I have seen only a stuffed
specimen, like a very small-sized kangaroo. with a
hog s nose. I tear the little creature must he almost
extinct, if not quite. The kangaroo-mouse—a mar-
supial field-mouse—was during the mice plague fre-
quently found about the lagoons arid swamps of the
Lachlan Valley. He is a beautifully shaped and
marked, little animal deserving the attention of the
naturalist. The nest is a shallow burrow in a
sloping bank, well above water-level, and the family
may consist of twins or triplets. These, too, have
become very rare.
Wart’ : The extinct Tasmanian black-
fellow used to treat snakebite by beating the punc-
tures wita small rods until the surrounding tissues
were completely pulped. There is no doubt the
method would, in a good many cases, be effectual,
especially if continued until the skin burst. All the
snakes were venomous—the black, diamond and
whip. By the way, the black snake of the Speck
is the tiger snake of the mainland. A little while
ago there was a discussion as to the largest snake
known, to-have been killed in the Speck. In 1879 C.
Hallet, of Glen Quorn, presented the Tas. Royal
Society’s Museum with a black snake, killed bv his
son, which was sft. lliin. in length.
THE OPTIMIST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN .]
You ask what is an optimist.
I saw one of the breed to-day.
Tis Sunday and the fierce sun kissed
All virtue from the world away.
No sap was in the bones of man;
The boughs hung wilted from the trees ;
Did earth ached ’heath the torrid ban,
And nothing was there to appease
The woeful thirst that racked us all.
Then twas, like some strange exorcist,
Before a bar door, thin and tall,
I saw the perfect optimist.
He knelt him lowly in the dust,
And through the keyhole small the cit
A long, strong wheaten straw had thrust.
And hopefully was sucking it!
VICTORIA.
D.


O'
&0
sS CAGLES
k\)ScA U * Ur >lQ 0
jirltoeir gualifies -
m
<tts
ATMOD££ 4
<y
KPRKS
CIGARETTES
No
JJJ
VIRGINIA.
The Famous
Red Packet
10 for
STANDARD WEIGHT.
The Quality of STATE EXPRESS CIGARETTES
is exactly the same as before the war—no substitute
whatever being used in their manufacture.
: :■ r ; v r v, . / -i ... , ..... > . , - V ■■■■■■ -
SOLE MANUFACTURERS-ARDATH-TOBA€€OCC>YL-L ? LONDOM,ENGLAND.


L>-
EVERY Drop of
“Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure”
means
Destruction to
Chest Troubles
(Coughs, Colds,
Croup, etc.)
W. G. Hearne & Co.
Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
New South Wales
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street, SYDNEY.
W.
ti inimn n i n i rrri n inriiTTn m rtTTTrm r; nn 11 r t ni fi
A Plain
Fact!
'/ / '
Qtl £ST
'FIO
“Sits
CO v
%
m
CROUP
Bertram Stevens
Norman Lindsay’s just appreciation:—
In the Red Rage (B. 12/6/’l9) there is a par.
with an omission which deserves to be rectified. The
omission is Bertram Stevens; somehow, when praise
is being handed round, Bertram seems to naturally
dodge getting his just handful.
Undoubtedly Syd. Ure Smith has raised the pro-
duction of handsome Australian books to the highest
European level. His taste is apparent in all the
works handled by “Art in Australia.” Still, on
the literary side of “A. in A.,” a large credit
should go to the account of Bertram Stevens for
his capacity in selecting critical matter, and his
efforts to keep a just balance between praise and
analysis of works selected for publication.
Outside “A. in A.” there is overdue credit due to
Bertram for a long list of publications which he
has handled, edited, annotated, collected material
for, and handed over to publication for a very small
reward in thanks or publicity. Indeed, one of these
days the literary grave-digger will bestow on
him the thanks of another generation, for, from
Kendall downwards, there is hardly an Australian
writer of any note whom he has not been in touch
with, collected material (biographical and literary)
about, and assisted financially and otherwise. For
many of them he has acted as literary executor.
One day all this unpaid labor will be of immense
value to the history of Australian literature. Mean-
time, one would like to see the doer of good decently
thanked for it; more particularly since to the
voluntary job of collecting literary data for others
to publish he has added on many occasions the un-
grateful task of collecting money for others to
spend. Indeed, literature in distress has never had
to groan twice in Bertram’s presence; he has gone
round with the hat and put many a quid in
pockets that badly needed it.
I take this opportunity of handing round the hat
on Bertram Stevens’s account, requesting a deposit
of thanks for all the solid, balanced and appreciative
work he has done in criticism, the hard graft he has
done in the service of Australian literature, and the
kindly deeds he has done to Australian literary men.
A Satchel of Books
Books about the reconstruction of the world after
the war grow almost too numerous. A feeling
begins to prevail that if the poor old globe—the
only globe we have —is reconstructed too often it
may become a grievously patched and unseemly gar-
ment, and humanity may chuck it up as a bad job
and go home barefooted. ' Still, H. J. Mackinder’s
Democratic Ideals and Reality should survive many
of the other works. Mackinder touches on a multi-
tude of subjects and propounds interesting theories
about the great national movements of the past and
their probable reproduction in the future. He is
lavish with maps in support of his views; wherein
he is wise, for one map and a few footnotes are
more illuminating than 20 pages of explanation.
A book to be cordially recommended. (Constable
and Co., London.)
The History of the Russian Revolution to Brest-
Litovsk, by L. Trotsky, is a curiously quiet sort of
volume, considering that the writer is one of the
figureheads of history and the event dealt with was
one of the loudest roars that ever echoed down the
corridor of time. It might be an account of the
last days of th’e Roman Empire as viewed from the
windows of a Dorcas meeting. Trotsky is not
violent in the expression of his opinions, but speaks
of the bourgeois and the intellectuals and the
“well-to-do” peasantry as if the mere mention of
them was sufficient to indicate an enemy. Nothing
is said about the wiping out of Parliamentary gov-
ernment—in fact, though there is a great deal about
the scuffles of factions, no comprehensive views of
anything are attempted. If the story of some vast
happening could be written from the point of view
of the small but profoundly intelligent dog in the
gutter—the animal which could only see the feet of
the passers-by and wrote according to its limitations
—the result would rather suggest Trotsky’s History.
(G. Allen and Unwin.)
"Q” Boat Adventures, by- Lieut.-Commander Auten,
V.C.. has enough material to set up a professional
writer for life. But Commander Auten isn’t a
writer; and lie hasn’t had much of a sub-editor
either. Nor, for the matter of that, has he had much
luck with his printer. None of the multitudinous
branches of the Navy service had more thrilling
adventures than the Q or Mystery or Special Ser-
vice boats. They went out looking for trouble—old
waddling colliers, most of them, that went wherever
Hun submarines were thought to be, and decoyed
them alongside; which mostly meant that they had
had a few holes knocked in them first. That they
didn’t sink straight away was generally due to the
fact that they had been half-filled with Canadian
spruce. Many a decoyed sub. found that an appa-
rently abandoned wreck had gun-crews lying doggo.
But, though they sank many Hun subs., there was
more to their credit than that; they made the subs,
chary about approaching very close to even the
easiest-looking victims, and that probably saved a
vast amount of shipping. (Herbert Jenkins.)
IN WINTRY MOOD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’ve lost my turn for writing- verse
On any theme that offers
(Line number 3 should end with “purse,”
And number 4 with “coffers”) ;
I cannot get ideas to flow
In rhythmic phrase, and snappily:
I always could, a while ago—
But not to-day, unhappily.
Try as I will to air my views
In tuneful form of chatter,
I fail to move the blessed Muse
To aid me in the matter;
No inspiration she imparts,
Though I implore her frantic’ly.
(I think I’ll end this line with “hearts,”
And this one with “romantic Ty.”)
I’m coining words to make the rhyme—
The rhyme bereft of reason:
Fain would I write of Love sublime,
But Love is out of season.
On me the Muse I woo in vain
Has cast a spell hermetical;
But soon the Spring will break again,
And then I’ll wax poetical.
A bard benumbed by winter cold
Blames not the Muse; he’s humble.
(And, darling, I am growing old,
And therefore mustn’t grumble.)
Spring, with its onions and its flowers
And birds a-chirping pleasantly,
Will bring me back my rhyming powers—
And Spring will happen presently.
VICTORIA.
O. K.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“The Bagman”: Before Ballarat Anglican
Diocese acquired its present tony chapter-
house, registry and suite of offices, its offi-
cial business was transacted in an upstairs
room in Lydiard-street with “Bishop’s Regis-
try” in big block letters across its window.
One morning an astonished prelate sorted
this out of the mail
Mrs. Bishop’s Registry,—
Will you please send me one plain cook and a
girl for housework, for Gum Tree Flat Boarding
House, and oblige.
“E.J.H.” in a recent Bulletin
said he had attended more than once
at wine-tasting at the Sydney Showground.
He sampled the wines and found them good,
but when he ordered wines bearing a similar
label in Sydney he did not get anything like
the Show liquors. There are no labels on
the bottles in which the wine is contained
at the wine-tasting. These bottles bear only
the numbers, placed on them to identify them
in competition, so that it would be impos-
sible to order wines by anything which
appears on the bottles. “E.J.H.” goes on
to say that capping bottles tvith lead cap-
sules opens up the way to deception, because
he found a cork in a whisky-bottle which
was n ot what might be called a whisky-bottle
cork. . Nearly all the whisky sold in Aus-
tralia is bottled in Australia, and, corks
being difficult to obtain, the merchants use
anything they can as long as it is a good
cork. So the fact that a bottle allegedly of
Smith’s whisky carried a cork with “Brown’s
Brandy” stamped on it wouldn’t necessarily
mean just now that it wasn’t really Smith’s
whisky, but was something else bottled in
the pub.
* * * *
“Naming” : Among those who don’t know,
the wharfies get all the blame for the
pilfering of cargo, though a recent Customs,
prosecution of one of the Department’s own
officers might have suggested things to them.
Quite a lot of the thieving is done after the
cargo has left the wharfi.es’ hands. There
is hardly a Sydney wholesale house whose
losses from wharves and bond-stores are not
considerable. No claim is made, as a rule:
the last thing that is wanted is trouble with
the Customs. Only those who have some
knowledge of the dreary circumlocution of
Customs procedure, and the terrible danger
of arousing spite in a petty official, can
appreciate this; and many losses are endured
on that account solely. Sydney bondkeepers
play the game, but the Customs control there
is sometimes a joke—or a tragedy, according
to the point of view.
* * * *
“Ses” : Have you noticed what’s going on
m the N. S. Wales honey trade? Not long
ago there was a great lioavl for registration,
licensing and inspection of apiaries—any
place that had a bee being classed as an
apiary—for the alleged purpose of guarding
against disease. All this was duly enacted,
and stringent restrictions were" imposed
Avhich wiped out the small man and hosts
of prßate bee-keepers. The result ivas just
what was aimed at: the price of honey
soared quickly from 3d. to Is. a pound, and
it hasn’t stopped yet.
* * * *
“Namron”: Here’s my deferred pay story:
(1) Discharged January 23, 1918; received the
usual percentage of my deferred pay and was told
that the balance (£l3 10s.) would be passed over
as soon as my statement of account from abroad
was received, probably within three months from
discharge.
(2) After visiting the Pay Office every time a
mail arrived from England I was banded a cheque
for £8 7s. sd. on September 2, 1918—nearly
eight months after date of discharge. An amount
of £5 2s. 7d. had been deducted, and the clerk
assured, me he didn’t know why. I had never been
crimed, hut I couldn't argue because I had no
record of the amount paid me while on service, and
our pay-books had been taken from us before dis-
charge.
(3) On December 16, 1918 (12 months after my
return), I received a notification from the Pay Office
that £4 Is. had been paid into my account at the
Commonwealth Bank. Now I am wondering if I
shall ever receive £1 Is. 7d. in final settlement.
What is incomprehensible to me is why the
Department does not make a complete settle-
ment when a soldier gets his ticket, as our
papers generally come on the same boat as
we do.
* * * *
“Almanac”: While I was introducing a
new line to a Melbourne Avholesale grocery,
the manager asked if I was supplying
any of the other houses. I mentioned
a few, including the Grocers’ Co-operatm?,
Ltd. “And what price are you charging
those people?” was the next question. 1
explained that I had but one price. Sorry,
said he. “We can’t, do business with you.
We look on those co-operative people as un-
fair business competitors, and the price to
us would have to be lower than to them. So
my line has to be kept out of a number or
grocers’ shops which deal only with this
firm. I suppose it's all right from the
commercial point of view; but, seeing that
it helps to keep up the cost of living, it is
helping to swell discontent and make the
outlook gloomy and uncertain. I m afraid
a lot of things that look all right from the
commercial point of view will have to be
scrapped oefore long.
* * * *
“ J.G.”: I agree with “F.C.” (B.
22/5/’l9) about the suspicions nature of
the shortage of sugar when there is a good
supply of jam fruits in Victoria. When the
early crop of peaches came on the market
last season you could not buy a bag of sugar
from your grocer at any price; lie could dole
out only 21b. at a time. So the growers of
peaches and apricots (fruit that will not
keep for a week when ripe) had to sell to
the jam factories at whatever price they
liked to give. When this phase passed, and
the peaches and apricots were mopped up,
there was plenty of sugar to be got. A
month or two later plums started to come
in, and again something went wrong with
the sugar supply. The plums in their turn
began to be a glut. The factories came in,
cleaned up the market, and almost immedi-
ately the sugar difficulty righted itself. Now
the same thing seems to be happening with
quinces and melons.
“Frank R.” : Nippon is keen. When the
Australian troops entered Jerusalem they
proceeded to buy up the wares of the silk
and curio merchants, but were surprised to
find that, notwithstanding the purchases, the
stocks steadily increased. Investigation
revealed that amongst the first goods sent
from Cairo to the Holy City were cases of
Japanese silk and curios. Then Billjim
felt mad, for he could have got the same
stuff in the Jap shops at Port Said for half
the money.
“8.T.” : The motor-car is slipping from its
high estate. The rabbit-o and hawker of
wild duck who called on us this afternoon
had his debilitated Ford, and the vehicle had
dead bunnies strung all over it. Cheap,
second-nand cars are coming into common
use among market-gardeners; and presently
the man who drives his own Rolls-Royce
will feel it incumbent unon him to explain
that he is not emptying rubbish-bins for the
corporation.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin, —If I’m in George-stre.it
presently it will be my shout. I see that
the Federal Government has decided to re-
fund to the farmers the £lOO,OOO of profit
made through handling cornsacks; and as
the same Government commandeered our
rabbit-skins at Bd. per lb. and sold them at
about 4s. per lb., it will assuredly pour the
same sauce over the trapper-goose as it
did over the farmer-gander.—Yours, etc.,
Trapper.
* •St * #
We cannot pocket our neighbor’s fruit
that grows over the fence, if a recent Eng-
lish judgment unheld in the King’s Bench is
to run in this country. While a man is
at liberty to cut away branches of his neigh-
bor’s trees that overhang his. property, what
he cuts down or plucks off belongs to his
neighbor and he cannot convert it to his
own use. In the Maidstone case in ques-
tion the branches of 10 choice apple-trees
were trespassing over the fence, and the
man on to whose property they strayed was
making a nice dry bit out of the sale of
the fruit.
* * * *
“U.P.” : Adelaide again leads. It has
the largest motor-body factory in Austra-
lia. The works, situated in King William-
street, are owned by Holden and Frost, Ltd..
and cover 43.000 square feet. The c. 0.,
long in the leather business, started in a
small way and for the first two years only
02 bodies were completed. Now eight are
turned out every day, or about 2000 a year,
and with new machinery now being installed
the output will soon be between five and six
thousand oer annum. The body being quite
equal in style and finish to anything im-
ported; the Minister for Trade and Customs,
who visited the establishment the other day,
made a solemn promise that so far as the
tariff was concerned the industry shall have
sufficient Protection.
*** ' *
, ; That £lO an acre rent for onion-
land (B. 22/5/ ’10) is high, certainly ; but
listen to this. A Melbourne market-gar-
dener, thinking to do a stroke, sent to
Sydney for some special “late” cauliflower
seed and bought many bags of a Bananaland
manure The latter proved to be a mixture
<>l. malt dust and sand, forcing but tem-
porary, and the seed turned out “to be early
caulies instead of late. The vegetables,
planted out in March, thus came into weedy
flowers m May instead of big, full ones in
August. He kicked and recovered the price
of his seed, but that was all for six months’
work ; Then he thought of onions. He
spent £b on lime, £l2 on sulphate of
“"Jr 0 ?/ 1 ’ fl ° on bone-dust and a bit more
on stable manure and onion seed, raised his
own plants, set them out, hired some labor
and worked his land early' and fate? He got
h f/«ward : four acres, 13 tons to the acre
but the a ton = £ l So \ T ],e laild is bis own!
but the man who took a risk like +w
wouldn’t baulk at £2O of rent
* * *
“The Oldest Inhabitant” ; T. W Henev
ex-editor of the 8. M. Herald, writing fe
Sydney Telegraph on “The. Old Shop and
*b e bh'": ‘ S T V ’ S °f the Horderns that they
started _in Geore-e-street. near King-street
Kins.;SSS al Al l[ holly Hord V started in
Iving-stieet, on the east corne> of what is
now TRUTH-lane. in 1822. or Thereabouts
Incidentally. “The Suez Canal” also re-
ferred to, was at the north end \of George-
street, not the south. It was a narrow pas-
sage running up between Globe-street and
Argvle-street. In the long ago Tu n Pliv-
fair had his butchery there. 1
“MATRIMONIAL.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN .]
The writer of this ditty
Wants a lady, young and pretty,
Who is charming, wise and witty—
With a view to the above.
Should the lady have the figure
Of a Venus (only bigger)
It would stimulate his vigor—■
With a view to the above.
It would add to the attraction
And increase his satisfaction,
It would justify his action—
With a view to the above —•
If the lady in addition
To her physical condition
Had a loving disposition—
And a view to the above.
It would give the writer pleasure
To possess so great a treasure
(He’s a gentleman of leisure) —-
With a view to the above.
If she’ll send the advertiser
Her address, he will apprise her
Of the details, and advise her—
With a view to the above.
Or perhaps it would be better
If ’she mentioned in a letter
An appointment, and he met her —
With a view to the above.
TOM BEASLEY.


SAVING
Power Through Efficient Equipment
%
V
■
1 ■
iSSK
The improvement in economy of steam turbines
since the first large (5000-kw.) turbine was
installed fifteen years ago has been remarkable.
GENERAL ELECTRIC CURTIS TURBINES
now generate two kilowatt-hours on the amount
of steam then required for one.
A
£
Wentworth Avenue,
SYDNEY.
AGENTS:
BRISBANE (Q.) : The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia
(E.S.C.A.), Ltd., corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
PERTH (W.A.): Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street.
ADELAIDE (S.A.) : Charles Atkins & Co., Ltd., 88*90 Currie St.
Cor. Queen & Little Collins Streets,
MELBOURNE.
AGENTS:
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical & Engineering Co., Ltd.
Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin and Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tullock & Co., Ltd., Launceston; Messrs
Oliver & Oliver, MacQuarie Street, Hobart.


m
k: _-
ii
fIJCJCOUBE CiJSOI'S*!
Hl(ti Prices tot Siins.u-
; l .frr3TC:.
The Enemy in Sight.
High Prices for Skins. If that’s
what you want, consign Rabbit,
Fox and ail other skins to
WINCHGOMBE, CARSON
SALESMEN ONLY, LTD
Sydney OR Brisbane,
For the
Motor Car
NATIONAL
MOTOR OILS
are the ideal lubricant. They
safeguard your engine
against undue wear and tear
and enable it to produce its
full power on every road.
Their cleanliness, high flash
point and unmatched visco-
sity GUARANTEE perfect
lubrication with every type
of engine.
OBTAINABLE ALL GARAGES
AND STOREKEEPERS
in 1-gallon Tins, 4-gallon Tins
and Barrels. Ask also for
National Motor Greases.
NATIONAL OIL CO. LTD.,
4 Bridge Street, Sydney.
JAMES WARDLE & CO., Adelaide.
£9
s
HI
i
m
j
y In the Heart oP
r JHelbourno
—handy to everywhere—sums up the position
of the Queen’s Anns Hotel. You can choose
no better hotel for YOUR stay in Melbourne.
The Queen’s Arms offers modern, homely
accommodation and excellent cuisine.
Tariff, bv the day, 10/6. Write now.
QUEEN’S ARMS V
HOTEL
C? SWANSTON ST
* FLINDERS
Claud R. Kerr,
Proprietor .
For our sick and wounded
BOYS. —When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Red Cross Book
DepOt, Wynyard Street, Sydney.
WIRELESS! WIRELESS!
The Invention of the Age.
Everyone should know more about a Service
that is every day being discussed more and
more.
The Wireless man has the world at his feet.
He travels everywhere. You meet him in Japan,
in Egypt, England and America.
You can do the same by studying this subject.
DAY and EVENING CLASSES.
If vou cannot attend personally we have a special
CORRESPONDENCE COURSE, containing the
same matter as the Lectures given at the School.
Practical Instruction given on Actual Wireless Stations
similar to those fitted on s.s. “ Katoomba, s.s.
“Niagara,” etc., including the Magnifying Valve
Receiver —range 12,000 miles.
Write to-day, or call and we will tell you v hat course to take.
Marconi School of Wireless,
97 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
And 422-4 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
L
m
OTTTIinKT:
mm
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust— Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES —Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS:
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited,
‘‘Collins House,” 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sydney Agent:
R. N. KIRK, 25 O’Connell Street.
Adelaide Agent:
A. W. XiEWIS, 62 Brookman Buildings.
MERIT
In Fountain Pens, as in everything
else, it is merit that tells, and that is
why the “Swan” has for a quarter
of a century gained more users every
year. When you buy a “Swan
you know you have a guarantee of
excellence in workmanship, perfection
of detail, and that absolute reliability
which has been the consistent keynote
of “ Swan ” manufacture for a
generation.
'SWAN'
PENS
Zold by Stationers and Jewellers Everywhere.
Australian Prices:
Standard Pattern with Safety Pattern with
Slip-on Cap, from 12/6 Screw-on Cap, from 15/-
lllustrated Catalogue free on request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD.,
79-80, High Holbom, London, Eng.
Manchester, Paris, Zurich, Toronto, &c. Sydney—
(Wholesale only) 225 a, George St. London Factory—
-319-329, Weston St., S.E. Associate House—Mabie,
Todd & Co., Inc., New York and Chicago.
Australian Branch: J. A. BURKE. 5 Primrose Buildings, 255 a George Street, Sydney.
..■••••it■■■mill *IIIIIII
THE PALACE HOTEL,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OF PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River. . .
.tnHN T «T,OWREY, Proprietor.
Perhaps Narracoorte (S.A.) Herald will
be able to square it with a donation :
Mr. A. Ilans took the unfortunate cyclist to the
Narracoorte Hospital, where it was found that his
leg had been broken. He is now doing as well as
can be expected in that institution.
“Wandewoi” : Talking of the awfulness ot
military “crimes,” the most appalling I ever
saw on a sheet was on Gallipoli. Our
(A.M-C.) cook was charged with “neglect
of dutv in that he did allow flies to congre-
gate about his cookhouse.’’ The wretch
was “severely reprimanded.”
“The Bagman”: The Vic. train that
arrived a dav late is beaten by the train that
never started. It happened on the Dressy
to Beeac line (Vic.) about five years ago
The caravan pulled out at 6 a.m. as a mixed
ordinary; blit when it reached the next sta-
tion the engine-driver looked behind and
found lie was pulling nothing. Running
back, nothing was located until lie got into
Cressy, where he found guard and passengeis
dancing mad on the platform. He had
cleared oft' without coupling up !
Wine-merchant Burney, who followed the
late Paul Kitz at the old cellars in Little
Collins-street, lias been having a discussion
with a good shepherd about Australian voti-
culture as an occupation for Billjim. Ihe
rev. gent, had stated that there was no
wine-trade” at the commencement of the
Christian era; whereupon Burney dug up
Pliny to show that there were at least 110
varieties of wine produced and marketed in
A.d. 78.
“Six-and-eight”: A par. (B. 12/6/T8),
which states that in all dog-bite cases the
Law requires proof of the owner’s knowledge
that the animal has the biting habit, isn t
applicable to N.S.W. An Act passed oyer 80
years ago—lB3s to be exact —made it un-
necessary to prove in such cases a dog s mis-
chievous propensity, or the owner’s know-
ledge thereof. The existing law in the Ma
State is to be found in the consolidated Dog
and Goat Act of 1898, which contains simi-
lar provisions.
“Graeme”: “Otira’s” yarn of the slow
Maoriland train (B. 5/6/’l9) recalls a
Bananaland creeper. I was on a “mixed
goods and passenger” from Toowoomba to
Palby. Soon after groaning through Blax-
land we halted in the waste. Driver, fire-
man and guard got down, walked 109 yards
into the bush and spent five minutes examin-
ing a dun cow. As the group broke up the
driver said: “If that isn’t the heifer Jack
Ryan is offering a £2 reward for I’ll swallow
me spanner.” But the Railway Depart-
ment’s property never went down his throat,
for I saw the dun cow in the yard of Jack
Ryan’s pub at Dalby a day or two later.
Ellis Joseph, who provides Australian zoos
with most of their wildest animals, is about
six feet four high and almost as broad, and
has never yet been coaxed out of his som-
brero. When it comes to drinking his big-
gest dissipation is a mild sarsaparilla. There
is at least one set of flunkeys who know that
he is a hard man to stop. When Jenkin
Coles was Speaker of S. Aus. Assembly,
“Joe” sold him an African talking parrot
and later called at Parliament House with
the bird. Several gorgeous attendants barred
the progress of the big man with the little
parrot. “Joe” told them explicitly what
he thought of them, while the bird added his
voice to the commotion. Then he brushed
them all aside, walked in, and delivered the
goods within the sacred precincts.
“0.L.”: In some Melbourne suburbs the
municipal dogman has been promoted to be
temporary health-inspector, with a hansom-
cab to help him. When the doctors’ ’flu-
reports come in, Inspector Doggett sorts
them out at his leisure, calls by-and-bye. for
his chariot and is rolled oft to the various
infected houses to see if they ought to be
quarantined or if nursing and medical atten-
tion may be needed. Three cases lately
happened in my suburb. In the first, the
inspector arrived just as the funeral proces-
sion was turning out of the street. In the
second the patient was dead and buried
before Bumble’s rep. woke to the need for
action. In the third the patient had been
ill for a week and was two days past the
danger-line when Doggett reached the bed-
side. The cases mentioned seemed to indi-
cate that a career as municipal hound-
hustler is hardly the ideal preparation for
a public-health official.
“Demy Folio”: The Wolf was not the
first enemy raider to make things lively in
the South Pacific. On July 1, 1814, 14
mariners brought the British ship Seringa-
patam into Sydney from the Marquesas
Islands. Their vessel, a whaler, had been
captured off the Galapagos Islands on July
13, 1813, by the D.S.A. frigate Essex, which
had already captured the Georgiana and the
Charlton. The Seringapatam was taken to
the Marquesas, where her crew were confined
in a fort erected by the Americans. On May
6 these 14 prisoners rose, seized the Seringa-
patam, and. after spiking the guns of the
fort and taking arms and ammunition from
the Greenwich, another captured ship, got
clear away to Tahiti and thence to Sydney.
With Ebor Bunker, of Sydney, as captain,
the 14 seamen next took the Seringapatam
to London. Jorgen Jorgensen states that
an American vessel, by which he presumably
means the Essex, captured 17 British vessels
in the South Pacific in 1813.
“McNorth”: A fortune awaits the man
who comes forward with an efficient substi-
tute for copper for sheathing wooden vessels
against the cobra-worm. This white ant
of the sea, who is quite capable of eating
an unprotected vessel to pieces in a few
weeks, is not unknown in southern waters,
but in the tropics he is the bane of the small-
craft owner’s life. Because it does not
rust, copper has been found the most suit-
able sheathing; but the sky-high price of the
metal in recent years has set boat-owners
on the hunt for something cheaper. Well-
tarred galvanised iron has been tried, but
the necessity for frequent beachings to
annly fresh coats of tar made this too expen-
sive and inconvenient. Numerous varieties
of paint alleged to be distasteful to the
cobra’s nalate are quite useless. The need
for sheathing at all would go if a boat-build-
ing timber that the worms would not eat
could be discovered, but search in this direc-
tion has so far failed.


Cable Address JEROOM
cooes
* BC 4th » Bth
A I. 1688 Ed
WATHN'S UNIVERSAL BHIPPIR6
WESTERN UNION
NEW ZEBRA
**•"* S»0 EDITION
TELEPHONE
9404 IS Ltntt)
ames
%S_A
fI'GHA'
OFFICEXeiTY ROAD
•UICKEST POSTAL ADDRESS
BOX 869
r, PO MELBOURNE
FOR PROMPT RF.PLV
PLEASE
REPLY'
Rtrtß TO
afm/RJ-4
N E
-ew/mes' 2i@t
February®^
Messrs. Elder Smith & Co., Ltd.,
Melbourne.
Dear Sire,
£ f)
We have pleasure in stating that all the
Belts in use at our mills of "Goodyear* manufacture are
giving every satisfaction.
Some of the maohlnee shown in the
accompanying photographs are not completely equipped with
your Belting, But as soon as the present ones wear out they
will Be replaced By "Goodyear" Belts.
We find your "Glide" Brand Belting
particularly suitable for heavy drives over small pulleys
suoh as are found on vp-to-date high-speed planers and
flooring machines.
One photograph shows the 16-moh Blue
Streak Belt doing very heavy duty on a fan drive requiring
about 150-horse-power to operate, and is giving solendid
satisfaction.
We are, dear Sirs,
Yours truly.
JAMES MO&RE & SON! PfH. bo.
Enolo: Photos,
■
m
m
.
:■ / . ■ : v ■ :■ ■ ■
111
H
m
mm
«ra
■ ■ g
■
:
i ■
m
■ ■
mSM
■99
■-V;
L
m
■
lOENCE AND
No one GOODYEAR BELT is an all purpose belt, and yet there is a GOODYEAR
BELT to suit most if not every purpose.
Heavy grinding work, calling for brute strength and enormous gripping power, high speed transmission
demanding extreme flexibility yet positive and unyielding contact, the uneven strain of heavy vibration
or intermittent loads, all these conditions are provided for in a GOODYEAR BELT designed for
just such service-
And as evidence of the complete fulfilment in every case of the service for which it is designed, let the
experience of James Moore & Sons, Pty., bear witness.
These Timber Works and Moulding
Mills are counted amongst the largest
in the Commonwealth, and it is signi-
ficant that two of the most exacting
power drives in the whole plant are
equipped with Goodyear Belts, and
are giving unqualified satisfaction in
wear and service.
Wood Milling Engineers know the
low efficiency value of ordinary belts
as equipment for “Yates” up-to-date
Moulding Machines.
Analysis of the drive reveals the low
H.P. small pulleys, and short centres.
Moreover, the continuous high speed
of belt revolution measures approxi-
mately a mile per minute. The origi-
nal specification of Goodyear 5-
inch 5-ply “ Glide ” Belting brought
such eminently satisfactory results,
that it is to replace all other equip-
ment throughout the plant on these
particular machines.
Like results are being obtained from
the 16-inch 6-ply Goodyear “ Blue
Streak ” Belt, which drives the big
8-ft. Exhaust Fan here pictured.
Developing 150 H.P. under present
conditions, but with a capacity of
240 H.P. this big load is carried with
ease and the maximum of efficiency.
The Goodyear Technical Man is at
your call for just this service. His
specialised knowledge and continuous
experience of results will assist you
to secure not only the maximum
service in belts, and consequent
economies of factory operation, but
will ensure the effective transmission
of power with its accompaniment of
maximum output of machines or
plant.
Our specification of Goodyear Belting
carries with it the acceptance of
responsibilty for its satisfactory ser-
vice and wear.
Stocks of Goodyear Mechanical Rubber Goods are now carried throughout Australia by
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LIMITED
ADELAIDE,
MELBOURNE,
SYDNEY,
BRISBANE.
PERTH.
1
m
s mm.
G-'V A L V S
m


This long' shaft completed in one
operation time 18 minutes on
WARNER & vSWASEY
Hollow Hexagon TURRET LA THE
HERE’S an example of Shaft-turning which demonstrates one of the advantages of the Warner arid
Swasey Hollow-Hexagon Turret Lathe —the ability to take two cuts at once by means of independent
feed shafts for carriage and turret saddle. Each has ten individual feeds in either direction!
While boring or turning with the Hexagon Turret, the carriage tools face, undercut or form.
Operations on the job illustrated are:—Feed Stock, centre with tool in centre turreti Next, start universal
turner, which turns the taper, at the same time reducing with tool in square turret. Then, continue to turn
with tool in square turret, while supporting other end with Hexagon turret. Cut Off. Time, 1.8 minutes.
There are other remarkable features about this machine which enable engineering workshops, mines, rail-
ways, etc., to handle a bigger variety of work at low cost. We will be pleased to demonstrate personally, or
supply figures upon receipt of your blue prints.
This is but one of the better class of machines which we sell. The full list embodies Le Blond Lathes,
Gisholt Turret Lathes, South Bend Lathes, Prentice Radial Drills, Heald Internal Grinders, Landis Screwers,
also Thomson Electric Welding Machines. Catalogues and full information on any of these tools will be
forwarded upon request.
SOLE AGENTS*
Benson Brothers Ltd.
76-78 Liverpool Street, SYDNEY.
71-75 Queen’s Bridge Street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
138 Currie Street, ADELAIDE.
PRIESTM AN
Cranes and Grabs.
£2460 Saved
per annum.
One user states that “the
work done in one day by
a Grab equals that of 40
men.” In this case a sav-
ing of £2460 per annum.
'
m
/
I»
8®
1
- .
wm
Reduce cost of
excavating,
dredging and
elevating . ... .
will handle Clay,
Sand, Rock,riud,
Gravel, Ore, Coal,
Coke, etc.
THE unusually high efficiency of
the Priestman Grab is the rea=
son for its continuous use in practi-
cally every country in the world. Time
and time again, because of their won=
derful reputation for reliability, we have secured
orders for Priestman Grabs in the face of strenu-
ous low=price competition.
Many Priestman Grabs have been supplied by us to
the various Australian Governments and numerous
private concerns. We are now ready to fill orders for
Priestman Grabs, with a guarantee of early delivery.
There are 150 different types of Grabs. Write for
Catalogue and full particulars.
SOLE AGENTS
NOYES BROvS.
(SYDNEY) LTD., 115 Clarence Street, Sydney;
(MELBOURNE) PTY. LTD., 499-501 BourKe Street,
Melbourne 5 and Darling Building', Adelaide.
Selling Agents—J. R. W. GARDAM, Perth; and CHAS. E. EESNAKS, 125 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
It is not often that a youngster is a major
before he is old enough to be admitted to the
Bar; but that was the position of Tom
('lnland, son of the Adelaide K.C. He has
outgrown the defect, however, and was the
other day introduced to wig and gown in the
S.j Aus. Supreme Court.
“E.G.8.”: The old gag chalked over the
grave of a Hun —“Here lies a Fritz who met
ai : Digger”—was supplemented at Mont St.
Quentin. A little further on one could find
tftis: “Here lie two more of the .” And
oh a fourth little heap still further along, the
Aussies’ track, a cross, which bore the
legend : “Here lies the Digger. Good lad!”
The Divorce Court in Sydney met a tangle
as well as a triangle the other day. The
petitioner’s father married the respondent’s
aunt, and when the respondent’s mother,
who was tiie petitioner’s aunt, died he mar-
ried the co-respondent’s mother. The Judge
shook his head and guessed that part of it
didn’t matter.
Borrowing an idea from “The Night before
Larry, was Stretched,” the Howqua Shire
Council, which has been officially wiped out
by the Fie. Public Works Dept., has held a
sort of wake at Jamieson Hall. Council-
lors invited the ratepayers and the officers of
the Works Dept, to come to a ball. Lest
there should be any residents missed, the
invitation was embodied in a poster which
was affixed to trees and pasted to posts. In
the old days when gold-mining boomed the
shire had a big revenue, but it fell off till
the receipts were so insignificant that amal-
gamation with two adjoining shires became
imperative.
In a breach-of-promise case at the Perth
Supreme. Court the other day, a young
voinan from Bullfinch mentioned that for
a long time during her engagement to the
defendant she had been preparing a glory-
box. Villeneuve Smith, K.C., inquired what
a “glory-box” was. Justice Northmore was
amazed at the K.C.’s ignorance. “Don’t you
really know that?” ’s’Onor asked. Smith
admitted his lack of knowledge. “Well, well,”
said the Judge, “you are almost ignorant
enough of common things to be entitled to
a seat on the Bench.”
One or two enthusiasts and good Aus-
tralians in Melbourne, convinced that there
are big things yet to be done in the wide
field of research into the comparative anato-
my of the Australian marsupials and mono-
tomes, have launched in a modest way the
Australian Institute of Anatomical Research
to provide a rallying-point for those inter-
ested. W. J. Owen, who used to demonstrate
on histology at Melbourne Uni., has quitted
the job and gone nap on the research work.
Another battler on the subject—he has
turned out some stuff which has attracted
attention in U.S.A. and Britain —is Dr.
Colin MacKenzie.
Douglas Andrew Shields, who lately got
a K.B. for war-services, was born at North
Melbourne in 1876. His name is on the
honor-roll of the local State school. He
entered Melbourne Uni. from the Scotch
College and emerged in ’97 head of the honor-
list in both medicine and surgery. At Mel-
bourne Hospital he was senior resident under
Fitzgerald. Thence he went to Seymour,
and removed every appendix within miles.
Passing to Collins-street he perfected a
chloroform mask and operated successfully
on G.-G. Dudley’s countess. The ad. lured
him to London, and he settled there. His
wife is a tall, handsome blonde, who was
bin-sing at Melbourne Hospital when he met
her. Two doctor-brothers helped him win
the war. The family runs to medicine:
dad, M.D., was one time Government Metri-
cal Officer for Victoria.
“Xela”: I salute a dinkum Digger—Staff-
Sergeant Alcon Webb, R.A.A.M.C. He was
aboard the Matunga, en route to Rabaul,
when she was sunk by the Wolf, was taken
aboard the raider, and was a prisoner there
till her arrival in Germany seven months
later. During those seven months he
ivorked uevotedly among the sick in the
betid prison-holds of the Wolf. He sweated
his way through outbreaks of typhus and
beri-beri in the Indian Ocean, he tenuid
syphilitic Japanese and rank niggers, finally
running himself almost to a standstill during
the scurvy outbreak which ended the Wolf’s
chapter of medical horrors. While the
raider was making her final dash through
the British patrols, Webb \vas busy down
below keeping heart and life in miserable
wrecks of humanity Avhom the horrible dis-
ease was rottin-*- alive —and this wmle he
himself Avas going through a series of bad
attacks of malaria.
“Ned Mac”: The Digger Avas never im-
pressed by rank or title. For a time my
platoon held a portion of trench at Suvla.
and joining us on our left in the same trench
Avas a regiment of Tommy Yeomanry. One
morning two spruce-looking men in their
shirt sleeves came through the Tommies’
section. They were wearing no badges, but
from the manner in which the Tommies Avere
stiffening I guessed the visitors were officers.
They came into our part, and the slighter of
the two borrowed my glasses and commenced
to make a survey of the Front. Meanwhile
one of my Diggers strolled up and opened
conversation Avith the other by asking for a
pipe of tobacco. On the pouch being pro-
duced Digger filled, lit up and expressed
Mahfey opinions of the war. After the pair
had gone, one of the awestruck Yeomanry
told, tis: “ ’lm as borrered the sargint’s
glasses, that’s General Lance; and ’im as
ypu got the tobaccer off, that’s Lord ’Enery
Behtick.” Digger merely remarked: “That
old blanker! I thought he Avas the other
pots batman.” He often bit Lord ’Enery
for tobacco after that.
ALAS!
[FOR THE BULLETIN .]
bast night, when all the world was dead,
When Venus flaunted high and red,
I dreamed again
That Love came tapping at my door —
As Love has sometime tapped before.
Impetuous the message came
(My sleepy mind sprang as to flame):
“Arise, arise!”—two taps again—
“Or else you’ll miss the blessed train!”
X.S.IV.
J. B.


“CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
-At the War.
f
3 0
\r~%m
ft ItST"" ' 33-0 ■^
I: .v
'SI ' iWM
r/z
\i* \
.-»•• ■&* /3S p~&'' *'fer.. ’ " .y f! |fl
f If
& i . J '\-'h fHj&’S&k .j'' • C i ’ /■'/4 5 1
i;-MV v; -s, /, * <V . Lf!
ss
O?'
M
y
rr-
■y\
mm^-
st
OM,
‘‘■wF .*&,ti':-,i>
' ““t-
-'O’
A
BBkJ
J>'
V
f
W; Pi
H
yz
3 I 03
u
l/
Go
Jwr^mjpr'-
■f —0./?«
./?«
55
fO'Of
/1M...L:
&t 4
y
/. c*
y Av.T t rsf o
So VI i )
VVS
'•/;• rn
S'* M-* &
<?■ SS < t f
m
K
I/S
\
fa
! \ vfcs*
■/’ar- .jO* ri" V.
i4fyS
P
>yw«w
m
ax&Z
1 l
yj
n
WA
W'h
&&
WJr>
fch
.tpifcr
/
' ■-&
k
¥,.
yj
%
; ' -z;-^
totQgc MpJfty.
66
Cobra,” Boot Polish
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Has a strong man’s
O
Work to do.
Egypt naught
By murder gains.
Sad conspirators
In chains
Under escort
Go to gaol,
Silent, cowed and
Sickly pale.
Well thev know,
That foolish crew,
COBRA ’s cleaned
Egypt too.


Dandruff Kills file Heir
GuticuraKillsDanM
Try one treatment with Cuticura
and see how quickly it clears the scalp
of dandruff and itching. On retiring
gently rub spots of dandruff and itch-
ing with Cuticura Ointment. KT *' vf
Next
morning shampoo with Cuticura Soap
and hot water. Rinse with tepid
water. Repeat in two weeks. Noth-
ing better or surer.
Soap to cleanse and Ointment to heal.
**R. Towns A Co.. Sydney, N. S. W," Sold
by dealers throughout the world.
Influenza.
‘•PLENTY OF MILK” is the doctors’
advice in all cases of influenza.
FRESH MILK modified by
Mellins Food
forms the best diet throughout the
course of the attach and in convales-
cence, because it is more palatable,
more easily digested and therefore
more nourishing than milk alone.
OF ALL CHEMISTS AND
STORES.
Price 26 per large bottle.
Sample and booklet free on request.
Mellins Food Ltd.,
Colling wood.
AGENTS:—
GOLLIN & CO. PROPY. LTD., Melbourne,
Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane.
ELEY,
CARTRIDGES
Always Reliable
I
m
a
m
m
ELEY .410 "Fourten”
Loaded with ELEY Smokeless Powder
ELEY .22 Lone Rifle Eley .22 Rim
“E" Brand Black or Smokeless
ELEY Single Rise
Expert Trap
ELEY Targets
for Trap
Shooting
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George St., Sydney, N.S. W.
Wholesale only:
ELE Y BROS.L-LONDON
3V‘S
a:
\
o
\
/C
K
>4
Va
S
S
Vi
»
I
' a»
p»
r,
S*,?
For Hoisting
Machinery
The heaviest loads will he
easy to handle, the work will
be quicker, and the security
greater if you equip youi
hoisting machinery with
SKF
Self-aligniig
Ball Bearings
instead of plain bearings. The
unique durability and consis-
tent efficiency of S.K.F. Ball
Bearings is known the world
over.
ALWAYS SPECIFY S.K.F
j MELBOURNE SYDNEY "BRISBANE |
T-
r,
*
C-A-O
CAC-
C-/VC-
C-A-C- 1
HIGH-GRADE SHEET METALS
BRAND
OA'C
BRAND
BRASS, COPPER, NICKEL SILVER
ALUMINIUM, GILDING METAL
MANUFACTURED BY
THE COLONIAL AMMUNITION CO. LTD.
GORDON STREET, FOQTSCRAY, Vic.
Obtainable from all the leading Hardware Houses in the Commonwealth.
SALES OFFICES;
VICTORIA— CoIIins House, Collins Street, Melbourne -
NEW SOUTH WALES-58 Pitt Street. Svdney - - -
QUEENSLAND— Campbell’s Buildings, Creek Street. Brisbane
Phone Central 199!
Phone City 2677
Phone 2382
Cv*VC
OA-C-
J c-y^-c
THE GREAT ANXIETY
Everyone is feeling anxious these days, either
directly over the War, or through conditions
due to the War. The best way to overcome
the feeling is by being tuned up to full pitch.
Keep your nervous system in tone by taking
nno
THE ROYAL TONIC
A few drops in water, night and morning of this
wonderful nerve tonic will enable you to tackle
Work and worry with a strong heart.
PROVED FOR 50 YEARS
All Chemists
1/- - 2/6 - 4/6
Ashton & Parsons Ltd.
London and Melbourne
John Davies, who has just thrown up Vic.
politics after an innings of 30 years, got in
for Melbourne in 1907 at the cost of one
penny—the price of the duty stamp on the
cheque for the £lOO deposit.
Comparing 1913 with 1918 Australians pur-
chases from India increased by £1,6*7,030,
from Ceylon by £384,936, from the Straits
Settlements by £426,641, and from Japan by
£4 099,179. If this trade is to continue it
is’absurd, from the industrial point of view,
to exclude the colored workman. If we let
him in, instead of merely letting his-goods
in. we could at least compel him to obey our
industrial laws; and he would be also a con-
sumer of our food-products.
A bright young chap, Slater, member for
Dundas (Vic.), who came back from active
service last year, has resumed study of
law. Amendments made in the rules by
the Council of Legal Education will smooth
the road for him. As a law clerk he is
now helping Maurice Blackburn, who, tired
of waiting for big briefs as a Selborne
Chambers barrister, has put up his plate as
a solicitor in Chancery-lane. In his spare
time Blackburn is still Attorney-General
to the State Parliamentary Labor party.
’Flu lately carried off J. H. De
Courcy, managing director of the Free-
man’s Journal of Sydney. He arrived
from Ireland as a lad, joined the printing
staff of the Freeman, and was associated
with the journal for over 60 years. Of late
he had an interest in the paper, and on the
death of J. B. Blakeney became manager.
He was an enthusiastic cricketer in his
younger days and was a member of the old
Albert Club when it had a fine playing oval
at Redfern.
Other countries have their Paul Freemans.
The French Republic decided that it could
do without the Grand Duke Boris of Russia,
and told him, without trial, that if he didn’t
get over the border he would be carried over
or shut up. The local Arthurs and Brook-
fields rallied round Boris and urged him to
hunger strike or swear off drink or otherwise
assert himself; but he went. The Spanish
Government told him to quit as soon as he
arrived, despite the impassioned protests of
El Judd, the local champion of liberty. But
the Arthurs and Brookfields and Judds don’t,
cut much ice in those parts, so Boris Free-
man was last heard of in Italy.
The dust having somewhat cleared away,
and all the libel writs having been served,
it is apparently decided that three or four
million bushels of the N. S. Wales wheat
of the mouse-and-weevil year must go into
the waste-paper basket. The usual motion
has been passed in the usual quarter that the
failure of “the Government” to meet the case
was disgraceful. But the defunct Labor
Ministry was in power up to the time the
mouse appeared, and it didn’t foresee the
rodent. At the same time it was known
that the grain wasn’t getting away, and in
such a case almost any sort of animal may
happen. The Labor Government decided
nothing, did nothing. The Coalition decided,
rather late, for beast-proof buildings because*
of their superior uselessness and because it
didn’t know about Noah’s old job of building
ships to carry the wheat away. Why, then,
either party should think it has a right to
throw dead mice at the other over this matter
nobody can tell.
Baronet Bryan O’Loghlen, recollections of
whom are called up by the death of his
widow a few days ago, was, as a rule, well
supported by his countrymen when he stood
for the Vic. Assembly, but in the end they
turned him down at Port Fairy. O’Loghlen
could never make up his mind whether it
was easier or harder to bear the blow
because it was dealt by a compatriot. J. F.
Duffus, a Koroit publican. Bent had
helped O’Loghlen in for the same constitu-
ency three years before by offering himself
as the third' candidate and splitting the vote
that Duffus would otherwise have got.
Tommy had been O’Loghlen’s lieutenant in
the “Peace, Progress and Prosperity” (1881-
83) Government and owed Sir Bryan a
good turn for pulling a string at the last
moment and assisting him into the Speaker’s
chair (1892) after the Assembly had re-
jected J. G. Duffy and Henry Wrixson. one
after the other. Whatever else his demerits,
Bent didn’t forget good turns done to him.
When T, Bloodworth, president of the
M.L. Federation of Labor, was asked the
other day what his attitude was towards the
celebration of peace, he replied: “We can
take no part in celebrations in favor of an
event that makes the workers of one nation
slaves of the capitalists of another nation.”
If the German does not pay the reparation
demanded of him, the Frenchman, the Bel-
gian, the Englishman, the Serb and the
Italian will have to. Which will make them
just as much slaves of the German capitalist
as the Germans would be of the other capi-
talists if Fritz did the paying. So it looks
as if the only anxiety of the muddle-headed
president of the M.L. Federation of Labor
is that, if there must be slaves, they
shouldn’t be the Huns, who started the
killing.
If the advocate of dp-nothing will take a
hint he can get it from the fact that the poor
can no longer find any humor in poverty.
Once, the poorer they were the more they
laughed at the things the poor had to put
up with. Gus Elen’s most successful song
was about a slum-dweller whose home would
have had all sorts of advantages “if it
wasn’t for the houses in between”; Harry
Randall made one of his greatest hits with
“Ours is a Happy Little Home”; and the
list might run to a column. They have
stopped laughing because they no longer be-
lieve that poverty is either inevitable or
irremediable. So they are going to do away
with it —or they believe they are—and if
those who are on top can’t abolish at least
'the worst manifestations of it —slums, for
instance —the people lower down are going
to try; and what it is just as well to re-
member is that the people lower down don’t
know anything about rosewater methods.
They haven’t been brought up to them. If
they had been that sort of peonle their sur-
roundings would have killed them long ago


Stop Torturing
Toothache Quickly.
Stopain Toothache Gum
Instantly Ends The Ache
And Helps Save The Tooth.
Don’t put up with toothache a minute. You
don’t have to. Just put a little piece of Stopain
Toothache Gum in the cavity, or around the
tooth and all pain is gone as if by magic.
Let STOPAIN Stop That Boring Pain.
It fills up the cavity, excluding the air, and
stopping the mouth acids from acting on the
frantic, jumping nerve; hardens quickly, and
forms a serviceable filling that will last for a
long time—until you are ready to have a per-
manent filling put in.
Why punish yourself ? Why endure the
agony of toothache when a shilling box of
Stopain Toothache Gum will quickly restore
your peace of mind ?
Keep it on hand for emergencies.
Stopain Toothache Gum is sold by most
medicine vendors at a shilling a box, or sent
direct upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
520-528 Riley Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Drives Away
Corns Quickly.
At last a TPfll i dnPS wliat it cave * C' nrn Purp*
At last a real ‘ does what it says ’ Corn Cure;
nothing like it or just -s good has ever been
known.
Every man or woman who has corns, warts
or bunions ought to try Handy Corn Cure at
once and see how marvellously it works. Quit
shaving your corn with a razor. You may draw
blood and cause blood-poisoning.
Handy Corn Cure wilt get rid of every corn
you have got without pain or discomfoit.
Handy Corn Cure is remarkable because it
never irritates or turns the true flesh sore or
raw. It can’t—it’s that antiseptic, safe and
harmless. The corn shrivels up and comes out.
1/- Per Box everywhere. Posted free by
Sunset Drug Co., 520-528 Riley-st., Sydney.
3k
W
/
CS?
.<23
V
zsra
OQ
<
3333
N
US
U
2T
S 3
a
«
CO
D
SP/£
£J
*4
P=3
Q
(*.
ui
*
C«3
Kiddies all love
Granny Chamberlain.
They love Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy too —and so
they should!
It is pleasant and agreeable to take—
perfectly harmless —free from narcotics, and
can be given with confidence to the youngest
and most delicate.
For coughs, colds, croup and whooping
cough it’s wonderful, and kiddies just
love it.
They will take it as often as you will give
it and ask for more.
tyjourvxjox Jfa&A. —
I COUCH REMEDY #
Diarrhoea.
Diarrhoea attacks all ages, and is equally
,'atal to young and old. The great danger in
this disease is due to the frequent lack of
proper treatment in the first stages. Chamber-
lain's Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy is a reliable
and effective medicine, and if given in time
will prevent serious results. It never fails, and
is pleasant to take. Every household should
have a bottle on hand. Get it today. Cham-
berlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy taken at
the first unusual looseness of the bowels will
save suffering and anxiety—and loss of both
ime and money.
Take It With You.
The importance of having a bottle of Cham-
berlain's Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy w.ch
them is realised by experienced travellers, as
this medicine cannot be bought on the train or
steamship. Change of water and diet often
deranges the stomach and bowels and produces
diarrhoea. As Chamberlain’s Colic and
Diarrhoea Remedy is the most reliable medicine
in use for these ailments, care should be taken
to have a bottle always on hand. Attacks of
bowel trouble nearly always come on suddenly
and when this remedy is at hand all danger
xaay be avoided.
TSe Firm.
When you ask for a bottle of Chamberlain’s
Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy, do not be per-
suaded to take anything else. Be firm in your
conviction that there is nothing so good. This
medicine has been tested in the most severe
cases of cramp, colic, dysentery and diarrhoea,
and has never been known to fail. “ Can be
depended upon” is an expression always used
in connection with Chamberlain’s Colic and
Diarrhoea Remedy. One bottle goes a long
way towards relieving suffering humanity. It
never fails to give immediate and permanent
relief.
QUEENSLAND
TH E KEY TO
PROSPERITY.
QUEENSLAND
opens (he door to
prosperity tor those
requiring land
Particulars ot the
millions of acres of
Crown Land
now available will be
sent you at once,
also Booklets on the
State's resources—
FREE
Name
Address
Queensland Government
UteUijence and Tourist Bureau
BRISBANE
m
S.B.
Used the
World Over
MOTOR
...CARS
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. .Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,‘Friiit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
SAFEGUARD YOUR HEalth
0f J.Collis Brownes
CWorodyne
The Original and Only Genuine.
the best medicine fob
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
uml ill the Cough of BKONCJIITiS ami
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVEIUSH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEUHALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM-.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery,
Of ail Chemists. Prices in Enyland, ljs, Sh, of
Made in Enyland.
GAPILLARINE
for
Quick
Results.
A splendid growth of Hair can be produced
on the upper lip by the aid of CAPIL-
LARINE. Make up your mind to grow the
Moustache, and start using CAPILLARINE
right away. A preparation of unfailing
merit.
PRICE 10/6 JAR —POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
In these days we alt have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell 8 Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office-
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
OR OUR SICK AND WOUNDED
JL' BOYS.-—When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Red Cross Book
Depot, Wynyard Street, Sydney.


A. Saunders’- Writing Attache Case, complete with
Writing Requisites and large-size detachable Blotter,
52/6.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Work Basket, Morocco Leather
Top, 37/6.
A. Saunders’ Kit Bag, square opening, Nickel
Lock and Clips, Cloth-lined.
32in., 21/’-. 14in., 24/-. 16in., 27/6.
A. Saunders' Cutlery Canteen, containing 1 doz. each Table and
Dessert Knives, 3-piece Carvers, £5.
‘Si'S 'SjT ' - I .W
afiysf.V • €crfc •us
u
2
5
A. Saunders' 8-day Marblette Clock, Bronze Mounts, Strikes hours on gong and
half-hours on bell. Reliable timekeeper, £2/10/-
A. SAUNDERS
Jeweller, 305-815 George Street, SYDNEY
(Opposite Railway Station).
A. Saundera’ Gent.’s Beal Ebony Brush Set, com-
plete with 2 Hair Brushes, Cloth and Hat Brushes
and Comb, flnest-qualitv Bristles, Silver Mounts,
35/-
- 1
A, Saunders’ Lady’s Dressing Case,.fitted with every
convenience.. 35/-
< is
. Saunders'
itli Nickel
Gladstone Bag - , solid Leather,
Mounts, Canvas Lining, 52/6.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68* PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the wo r '
GIBSON’S
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide.
High=class Residential Hotel.
Tariff: 15/- per day inclusive.
8/= per day Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
MORPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering’ over 40 years, also a wonderful
Cure for Rheumatism.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/3 per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l/2/-. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
The surest, quickest remedy for
Catarrh, Ordinary Colds and
Asthmatic troubles. The Stand-
ard remedy for over 40 years.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
BOOKS! BOOKS! BOOKS! FOR EVERYBODY!
The Book of Nature
A FULL AND EXPLICIT EXPLANATION
OF ALL THAT CAN OR OUGHT TO BE
KNOWN BY
MAN and WOMAN,
INTENDED ESPECIALLY FOR
THE MARRIED, OR THOSE IN-
TENDING TO MARRY.
By L. M. BYRN, M.D.
A PRACTICAL COMPLETE
FAMILY DOCTOR.
No such Complete Panorama of the Mysteries
of Human Reproduction has ever before been
given to the world.
DR. BYIIN’S ILLUSTRATED EDITION
(1917 ISSUE) IS THE ONLY GENUINE
BOOK. ASK FOR IT, AND TAKE NO
OTHER. PRICE:
TWO SHILLINGS & SIXPENCE.
POST FREE.
Live and Leaun, 2/-. How to Get Rich,
1/6 posted. Dr. Lamartine's Silent Friend,
1/6. Ned Donnelly's Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, 1/6. How to
Dance, 1/6 posted. How to Wrestle, 1/6.
Moll Flanders (a rare book by Defoe), 1/3
posted. Thurston s Card Tricks. 1/3. All
Zola's, including . Nana, 2/6 each posted.
Educating the Horse, 1/3. Ventriloquism
Made Easy, 1/3. Up-to-date Comic Reciter,
1/6 posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/3. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist.
latest edition, 6/6 posted. Riddle op the Uni-
verse, 1/3, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(send for list). Tea Cup Fortune Telling, 1/3.
How to Make Your Will, 1/3. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 2/3. The Australian Fruit
Gardener, 1/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/6. Par-
lor Tricks and Games, 1/6. Fortune-Telling
by Cards, 1/9. Life (a book for Men and Women
of To-day), 2/-. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales,
1/9. Tricks & Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/6.
Beauty's Secrets, 1/6 post free. Night of Temp-
tation, 2/-. How to Make Love, 1/3 post free.
Fowler’s Science of Life, 12/6. Australian
Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 4/-.
Mahomet’s Fortune-Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price 1/-, posted 1/3.
How to Become Quick at Figures, 1/3. Will
Power ' (Personal Magnetism), posted 1/-. San-
dow’s Book of Strength posted, 4/-. Car-
lisle’s Freemasonry, 6/3 posted. Daughters
of Ismael, 2/6. History or the Rod Flagella-
tions and the Flagellants (scarce), 15/-.
Practical Gas and Oil Engine Handbook, 5/6.
Motor, Mechanics, 3/9. Motor Manual
(latest), 3/6. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 1/-
and 2/3. God and My Neighbor, 9d. How
to Read Faces, 2/-. Adventures of a Sydney
Barmaid, 1/-. Colonial Horse Doctor, 2/-.
French Polishing and Staining, 2/3. Photog-
raphy Self-taught, 1/6. How to Make
Sweets. Jams and Syrups. 1/2. New Tricks
with Coins, 1/3 posted. House Painting and
Papering, 2/3. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
1276. Australian Pastrycooks’ Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions. 1/6 posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to WTn at Cards, 1/6. How to Read Faces
and Heads, 2/-. Soldering, Brazing, etc.,
2/3 posted. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/9. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; 1/3 posted.
Camille. 1/6 posted. Piano Tuning and Repair-
ing, 2/3. Modern Etiquette, 1/3. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Gaines), 1/6. How
to Mesmerise, 2/-. Man from Snowy River,
4/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/3 posted. Parlor
Magic, 1/3 posted. The White Slave Traffic,
1/3. Every Man His Own Carpenter, 1/6.
Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator,
1/1. Secret History op the Court op Eng-
land, 2/-. Letter-Writer Up-to-date, 1/6
posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, 1/6 posted. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-; 1/2
posted. Electricity Made Simple (new), 6/-.
The Confectioner's Handbook, 1/6. Sexual
Knowledge for Everybody (with plates), 6/6
posted. How to Shine in Society, 1/6.
Cabinetmakers' Handybook, 2/-. Complete
Bookkeeping, 2/6. Life of Deeming, illus-
trated, 1/1. How McDougall Topped the
Score, and Other Verses, 1/3. French
Self Taught, 1/3. Wannan's Engine-
driver's Guide. 6/-, posted. Decameron of Boc-
caccio, 4/6 each, posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 2/- posted. Women’s Secrets, 1/-
posted. Gay Life in Melbourne, 1/- posted.
Secrets of Beauty, Health and Long Life
(50,000 sold), 2/- posted. A Bed of Roses, 4/6.
All These Prices Post Paid.
Established 30 Years.
DON’T BE FOOLED
INTO PAYING MORE.
New Tricks with Cards, 1/6. Sappho, genu-
ine, 1/3. Old Bcsii Songs, 1/3 posted. Du.
Milford's Midwife's Handbook, 92 practical
Send stamp for my
BIG ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
illustrations, 3/'-. Akistotle, 5/-. Adam Lind-
say Gordon's Poems, 1/9. Practical Palm-
istry, 2/-. Guide to Auctioneering, 3/6.
Lovers' Letter-writer, 1/6. All About
bators, • 2/3. Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed,
Key to All Degrees, New Edition, 1/9 posted.
Vest-pocket Dictionary, 1/6 posted. Tokology,
10/6 posted. Ingersoll's Works, 1/3, 2/-. How
to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 2/- posted.
Chevasse's Advice to a Wife, 3/9 posted. Bread
and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-boilers' Assist-
ant, 2/-. The Wife’s Handbook, 1/3 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, 1/- posted. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness
and its Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster's Large
Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus.,
leather bound, my price, 20s. post paid. (Why
pay 3 and 4 guineas?). Bootmaking and Repair-
ing, 2/3. Dynamos and Electric Motors. 2/3.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete
Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 12/6 posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, 1/3 posted.
Henry Lawson's Humorous Verses, 1/3. The
Age of Reason, by Paine, 1/3 posted. Rasputin,
the Monk of Evil 2/9. One Day, 1/3 posted. The
Wizard's Manual, 1/3. Speeches from the
Dock, 2/-. Life’s Shop Window, 2/-. Three
Weeks, 2/- posted. The Escaped Nun, 2/-. Six
Women (bv Victoria Cross), 2/-. The Black
Prophet, 5/8. Tom Jones (Fielding), 3/-. Aus-
tralian Miners and Prospectors' Guide, 2/-.
Adventures of John Johns, 2/6.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
the big book store, 67 g 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
am-BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.^m


“O’Smith”: The slum parson gets some
new thrills these times. Recently one dis-
covered a Sydney house in which there were
six ’flu patients, all crowded into two beds,
lie set to work at once, and after stripping
the four kids and the husband bathed them
all to bring down their temperatures. He
was about to depart and leave the sixth
patient to one of the family, when the man
looked reproachfully up : “Blime, boss, ain’t
yer goin' to do the missus?”
Tenders.
THE COMMITTEE of the Mosman
Soldiers’ Memorial invite designs from
Architects. Sculptors and others for ■>. Monu-
ment in Trachyte, Granite or Brdme. or a
combination of two or more of these
materials. Cost of completed Mom ment
not to exceed £3OOO. Provision to be made
for about 1500 names. Designs, with wrap-
per endorsed “Mosman Soldiers’ Memorial,”
to be addressed to the Mayor, Alderman A.
D. Walker, Town Hall, Mosman, on or
before the 30th of September, 1919.
J. E. BISHOP. lion. Secretary.
Mosman, 24th June, 1919.
EXCLUSIVE STYLES
in
Gent.’s 8 Ladies’ Coats
MADE IN ANGOLAS and
HOMESPUNS.
Also in the CELEBRATED
BURBERRY GABARDINE.
PRICES FROM £6/10/-
HUNT’S,
314 George Street,
Sydney.
Amusement*.
Harry Rickard* Tivoli theatres U(l.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
JIVOLI TIIEA T It fc. SYI)N 15 Y
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Matinee Wednesday, 2.30.
THE BETTER ’ORE.
Captain Bairnsfather’s World-fampus Comedy. '
Plan at Nicholson’s and the Tivoli.
“I‘IVOM THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH D. McINTOSH PRESENTS
THE FASCINATING MUSICAL PLAY,
THE OFFICERS’ MESS.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- & 1/-, plus tax.
CIS I T E It I <> N TII EA T It IS, SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.
The Leading American Comedy Star, M. B.
FIGMAN, together with LOLITA ROBERTSON
in
NOTHING BUT THE TRUTH.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Day Sales at Callose’s.
U 15 It M A .1 15 8 T Y ’ 8, S Y I) N IS Y
* 1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday.
J. C. WILLIAMSON'S TREMENDOUS
PANTOMIME EXTRAVAGANZA,
GOODY TWO SHOES.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Day Sales at White Rose.
Til EAT It E It OYA L. SYI) N E Y
Lessees J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
ALLAN WILKIE REPERTORY SEASON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF TRILBY.
SATURDAY NEXT, .TUNE 28,
THE MIDNIGHT WEDDING.
Reserved Stalls 4/-, Circle 3/-, Stalls 2/-, Gallery 1/-.
Plan at Paling’s.
I R T H s ’ CIRCUS
Anti Great Water .Pantomime.
NEW HIPPODROME. HAYMARKET.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY & SATURDAY AT 2.30.
A COMPLETE NEW CIRCUS IN ALL ITS
GLORIOUS SPLENDOR & OPULENT VASTNESS
Prices: 5/-, 4/-, 3/- and 2/-, plus tax.
Children under 10, half-price.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
MON PIC T U It E T II E A T It K -
THE PICK OF THE WORLD’S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE. LYCEUM.
STRAND. GLOBE, LYRIC. EMPRESS
MAJESTIC, GRAND, KING’S CROSS.
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
gYD N E Y GIiACIA R I U 31
TRIUMPHANT REVIVAL OF ICE-
SKATING.
Three sessions daily: 10—12, 3—5, 5—10.30.
Special Children’s sessions, Saturday Mornings.
Admission: 2/- plus tax. Skates, 6d. extra.
DUNBAR POOLE, Manager.
It any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Government Notice.
Accounts Due by the Government of the
Commonwealth.
ALL persons who have claims against the
Government of the Commonwealth
are requested to apply to the Department
which incurred the liability, on or before
Friday, 27th June, so as to avoid inconveni-
ence to themselves and the Department.
No accounts will be paid on Monday, the
30th of June, after 1 p.m.
W. A. WATT,
Treasurer of the Commonwealth.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the CenfcuriMi,
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since 159fi. CURES Write for BooK
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England
Insist on “Singleton’s”—refuse all substitutes.
Are
You
One of
a Group
IT would be a fine thing if we were
all members of a War Savings
group. The spirit of emulation would
be abroad. The fire of a national
spirit would be created.
It would inculcate THRIFT as dis-
tinct from parsimony.
Think it over. If you are'not a mem-
ber of a group see to it that you
become one.
.If there is no group in your office, in
your street, in your suburb, or in your
town, show you are alive to your re-
sponsibilities and anxious to do your
part in the work of Repatriation by
forming a group.
WAR SAVINGS GROUPS
offer an opportunity to all to put a little by, and so assist in real national effort.
15/6 buys a £1 certificate, payable in 5 years.
12/- buys a £1 certificate, payable in 10 years.
The Banks are prepared to hold these Certificates for safe custody on your behalf
free of cost, and to credit proceeds at maturity, as may be directed, and if you
are in need of the cash, will cash them at any time.
Write for particulars to —
N.iS.W. WAR SAVINGS COUNCIL
Commonwealth BanK Buildings - - Sydney.
No. 4.
Amusements.
EK MAJISSTV’S THEATRE, HIKI.ISOUKNE,
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. PRESENT THE
AVIATION MUSICAL PLAY.
GOING UF.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
Til K A T It 1C It O Y A 1.. M ICI.IUH; liN K.
1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT AT 8.
FOR FIVE NIGHTS ONLY.
.1 C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present Everybody’s
Favorite,
MURIEL STARR, in
BOUGHT AND PAID FOR.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
KING’S THEATRE. AI ET.ItOC Jt N E.
Lessees: BAILEY ,v GRANT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
I. & N. TAIT Revive the Brilliant Mystery Play,
DE LUXE ANNIE.
Prices: 10/-, 7/6, 5/-. 3/-, 2/- Plan at Allan’s.
|y|EEHA THEATRIC. METHOD RNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
i he productions of CHAPLIN, VITA GRAPH, PATHE,
WORLD and SELZNICK.
Amusements,
U OVT'S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
■ 1 Also SYDNEY,
DE LUXE, BOURK-E STREET; and LYCEUM (over
Princes ■ Bridge).
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
CHARLES RAY in
THE LAW OF THE NORTH.
MARGUERITE CLARK in
OUT OF A CLEAR SKY.
Prices as usual.
|y| A.) ESTIC THEATRE, M El, ISO LUN IC.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
SIR JOHNSTON FORBES-ROBERTSON
PASSING OF THE THIRD FLOOR
RACK.
Plan at Allan's.
QIiACIARIUM, ME LBOCR NE.
ICE-SKATING.
SEASON NOW OPEN.
GRAND FANCY-DRESS CARNIVAL.
SATURDAY, sth JULY.
gIiITAXMA THEATRIC. MELBOURNE.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
. Continuous Sessions.
f
YOU could not make a better invest-
ment than in a bottle ofßem Oil. One
drop judiciously applied to the wearing
surfaces of light machines will prolong
their usefulness and render them capable
of better service. Every household should
have a bottle of Rem Oil. For firearms it is
unexcelled, being at one and the same time a
lubricant, powder solvent and rust preventive.
Ask your dealer for further particulars or
send for special descriptive circular, also
complete catalogue of Remington UMG
Firearms and
Cartridges.
&
>7
//
i
\
Xi'
VC
REMINGTON ARMS UMC COMPANY
P 4 D. D. BRYANT, Australian Representative, Box 686, G. P. 0., Melbourne
m
m.
H
H
Music’s
Re-creation
The picture is of Miss Anna
Case* prima donna of the
Metropolitan Opera Co., stand-
ing side by side with The
NEW EDISON, and actually
comparing her voice with The
NEW EDISON Ke-creation of
it. The huge audience of
music-critics who listened
could not distinguish Miss
Case's voice from the wonder-
ful Re-creation of it.
Numerous similar tests by
other world-famed artists have
had the same marvellous re-
sults.
The NEW EDISON
better than a piano or talking-
machine in your home.
Of course, it lias no relation to a piano; nor to mere talking-
machines. It is the only vehicle available for the exact convey-
ance of the human voice or any instrument from the record
chamber to any home or place of entertainment in any part of the
world. Nothing of the original is lost—not even the slightest
shade of tone, or overtone. The NEW EDISON is simply a
Re-creation instrument —the only one in the world.
Lovers of music who dislike, talking-machines are particularly fond
of The NEW EDISON.
Write immediately for full particulars of this unique and beautiful,
instrument, post free.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 364-372 Kent Street, (Sydney.


E
3
33T0
O
3899
Wliori a Friend
' Drops in for a ChaL
serve -
ABBOTS
LAGER
BREWED FROM.
PURE MALT Si HOPS ONLY.
The Flat-set Felt
The Favored Style To=day.
The new Peapes’ Flat-art Hat is an extremely popular
stvle. and is made of a quality-felt that will retain
its distinctive shape and color.
The felt is of flue finish, and the hat has medium
crown, unbound felt-set brim 2 i inches wide, 2-inch
hank, with bow at side. Colors: Liyht Grey, Steel,
Olive Green 27 /q
A hat that we can confidently recommend.
PEAPES’ PAY POSTAGE.
Please state size and color.
Peapes & Co. Ltd.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309-311 George Street, SYDNEY.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
lleis Majesty’s “Goody Two Shoes”
Criterion “Nothing but the Truth”
Royal “The Midnight Wedding”
Tivoli .. “The Better Ole”
Hoyt s Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
Haymarket Hippodrome Wirths’ Circus
Glaciarium I ce Skating
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Going Up”
Royal “Bought and Paid For”
King’s “De Luxe Annie”
Tivoli “The Officers' Mess”
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Glaciarium Ice Skating
Allan Wilkie’s theatrical merry-go-round,
still whistling for passengers at Sydney
Royal, has paused for this week at “Trilby.”
A lot of dust has settled on poor Trilby’s
beautiful feet since 1896, and Frediswyde
Hunter-Watts doesn’t manage to shake all
of it off—or she doesn’t for any playgoer
who has a few grey hairs and can remember
other barefooted heroines. She has been
given credit for looking all right in the
hypnotic scene as the splendid pruna donna
who enthralls the most musical with old
“Ben Bolt” ; but in the scenes where vim and
gaiety are called for she fails gracefully.
Allan Wilkie, well made up, is about a 75 per
cent. Svengali, though when melodrama is
called for he works up to about 98 per cent.
Guy Hastings caresses the bell-pull whiskers
of Taffy as if he had known them for years,
and Fred Patey is likeable as the Laird.
George Hewlett has the sad job of Little
Billee, and Gernld Harcourt moans as the
trodden-on Gecko. Tal Ordell is the Zou-
Zou of the show, and Lorna Forbes makes
a breezy Madame Vinard. “The Midnight
Wedding” goes to the altar again on Satur-
day.
“Goody Two Shoes” has now reached the
placid Indian summer of its existence at
Sydney Majesty’s. The roar of advertise-
ment lias died down in the press, and the
big panto, is running along smoothly without
effort. Everywhere suburban inquisitors are
interrogating other suburbanites as to
whether they have seen the show ; and when
an entertainment has reached that stage
the ad.-writer can rest on his oars, draw
his fires, and put out the jug.
“Jack and Jill” ends at Sydney Palace
to-night (Thursday). On Saturday at the
matinde the panto, opens at the Victoria
(Newcastle). Harry Lauder was to have
piped up at the vacated Palace on Saturday,
but the Taits have had to postpone the
start. Saturday, July 12, is the date on
the bills now.
* * * v
Evidently there are still a few bob in
“The Better ’Ole.” While the ’flu keeps
punching away at the audiences, the Bairns-
fa’ther show pegs away at Sydney Tivoli,
and keeps the yellow electrics shining along
the Castlereagh.
“JACK AND JILL ,” at Sydney Palace.
Daisy Yates goes gay in a moonlight dance.
“Nothing but the Truth” continues to hold
the fort against the ’flu at Sydney Criterion.
Till Saturday Sydney Opera House thrills
to the old story of “The Rosary,” with Har-
rington Reynolds as the lovable Father
Kelly. With that the season ends.
Sydney Lyceum unwinds five reels of
“Rule Britannia,” which is an “official” film
of the Navy under firing orders. The homely
details of taking in supplies and coaling are
shown, in addition to the more spectacular
jobs of creating smoke-screens and discharg-
ing torpedoes. And the grey North Sea
heaves and billows till you feel your face
cut with salt spray. On the same screen
Rex Beach’s “Heart of the Sunset” juggles
with passionate Mexican generals, manly
rangers, dissolute husbands and the usual
lovely woman. Crystal Palace and Strand
have the old thrilling bedroom scene, in
which the man who shouldn’t meets the
woman who wouldn’t. Hoyt’s and the Hay-
market chronicle this week's adventure of
Wm. S. Hart under the nom de guerre of
Shark Monroe.
Wirths’ Circus and Water Pantomime
has been running at the Hippodrome (Syd-
ney) for six weeks. Frequent fresh attrac-
tions have kept the box-office crew busy
despite the ’flu, and the end of the season is
not even hinted at.
Emelie Tolini is attracting renewed atten-
tion to the absent-mindedness of De Luxe
Annie, and her farewell season at Melbourne
King’s promises to.be fruitful. Annie’s
new husband (who is Greenaway) and her
different accomplice in the blackmail busi-
ness (who is Fernside) give a touch of
novelty to the revival for those who have
met the lady before, whilst the side view of
Cyrus’s wagging goatee, being the same as
ever, helps to confirm old patrons in the
belief that Cyrus's remarkable store is
a real going-concern rather than a sudden
frame-up for Jim’s arrest. The interesting
pair continue to skate away from their pie-
dicament, and Annie’s mind will recover its
lost balance until further notice.
* * * *
The Taits will stage another Repertory
play at the King’s on Saturday afternoon.
Two, in fact. “The New Sin” is to be pre-
ceded by “The Lost Silk Hat,” a curtain-
raiser that enjoys the distinction of having
been written by a lord.
* * * :(t
At Melbourne Majesty’s the musical
“De Luxe Annie,” at
Melbourne King’s.
The doctor (G. Kay
Souper and the de-
tective (Harmon
Lee).
comedy which, has
already lasted 10
w eeks is still
“Going Up.”
$ 5£ ,*J: %
For two nightd
more the football
match at Mel-
bourne Royal will
be received with
roars of gramo-
phone aoplause be-
ti;nd the scene:,).
Considered as a
realistic emotional
play “The Silent
Witness” is not
much more con-
vincing tnan the
shouts of the popu-
lace which issue
from the unseen
funnel, and this is
satisfactory in
view of the drama-
tist’s picture of
how American offi-
cial prosecutions
»re conducted in
criminal cases.
Muriel Starr com-
mences the last live
nights of her sea-
son on Saturdav,
when she w'ill be
“Bought and Paid
For” once again.
On Thursday she will be expected to say
good-bye in a few well-chosen remarks.
** * *
At Melbourne Princess’s the Kelioe Co.
closed its innings last Saturday. It made a
good beginning and end to the Plibernian
drama venture with “Mother Machree,” and
Kehoe’s farewell advt. expressed a hope that
he will venture some mere at a later date.
Things proceed smoothly at Melbourne
Tivoli, as far as ’flu will permit. None
of the pleasing mysteries of “The Officers’
Mess” have been cleared up, and nobody even
hints at an explanation of Vefa Pearce’s
appearance with a pair of milking pails
hanging from her braw shoulders, loaded with
invisible milk from an alleged dairy, what
time she and the butter-factory are under-
stood to be afloat on a houseboat. Nothing
matters in comedies of confusion if the action
moves freely and the jokes have seen good
service. When Celia Ghiloni, in the un-
wanted capacity of a guileless aunt, comes
along with the news that she has found her
missing jewels, the question of how on earth
she found them is not allowed to matter.
Incidents occur casually in the Tivoli show,
and the difficulty of what to do with Lottie
Sargent is invariably overcome by putting
her'to bed.
Melbourne Town Hall was packed on
Saturday uieht by genuinely-musical souls to
whom Alberto Zelman’s symphony orchestra
makes occasional appeals. The main strength
of anneal this time was in Beethoven’s
C Minor Symph.. and the reverent treatment
it received from the mighty band of amateurs
was their best achievement to date. Miss
Alice Slater showed herself a most promising
young artist in the Hungarian Fantasie for
pianoforte and orchestra; Nos. 3 and 4 of
Massenet’s suite for orchestra —“Scenes
Pittoresque”—fetched more applause than
Nos. 1 and 2, because they are lighter; and
the Prelude and Finale from “Tristan” seemed
quite to the taste of 35 lovesick orchestral
maidens who sat behind a like number of
violins.
*# * *
This Saturday afternoon a professional
orchestra will assemble at Melbourne Town
M IRTHS’ CIRC[?]S, AT
SYDNEY HIPPODROME.
High-diving Cham pion
Charles Scott.
Hall for a trust-fund concert under Dr.
Floyd’s direction. The Doc. is St. Faul’s
Cathedral organist, with a leaning towards
British-born music. Along with. Schubert’s
delightful Unfinished Symphony .the pro-
gramme includes items by Sullivan, Macken-
zie and Percy Grainger.
* * *
Numerous Repertory enthusiasts sat
together at the Austral Salon, Melbourne,
the other evening in unanimous admiration
of Arthur Goodsall, a young Repertory actor
and producer who learnt his business from
Granville Barker. Goodsall was the lead-
in? man in three little plays—“ The Bear”
by Tchekov, “The Travelling Man” by Lady
Gregory, and “The Dark Lady of' the
Sonnets” by G. B. Shaw —and he also
arranged the scenery to match the tempera-
ments exposed. He achieved his best
effect in the Tchekov piece, with vertical
panels of black and blue, and furniture in
Russian overcoats. Miss Rose Quong gave
most assistance on the feminine side, and
there was nothing more attractive in her
performance than her beautiful gift of self-
effacement. Miss Handley, Miss Smith and
Miss Feuermank were also modest and mer-
ciful in smaller parts.
* * *
Hovt’s nrincipal Melbourne features this
week—at the De Luxe, or Lyceum, or both
—are Marguerite Clark in a film of joyous
adventure (“Out of a Clear Sky”), Charles
Ray. in “The Law of the North,” Caruso in
“My Cousin.” Peggy Hyland in the admitted
fact that “Marriages are Made,” and a
matinee-only picture of sweet girly adventure
among those New Guineans who used to count
as German subjects until lately. Some of
the Hoyt films for this coming week are “The
O insy Trail.” “The Him,” “Lawless Love”
and “Doing Their Bit,” wherein Jane and
Katherine Lee are chief doers. At the
Majestic the Talmadge attraction of the
moment is “Romance and Arabella,” a pic-
ture that teaches young men what policy to
adopt with the girlie who is too fond of mak-
ing and receiving dreamy eyes. The other
long film is “Men.” which makes free with
a play bearing the same title. The triangle
if f his case is formed by tw r o sisters and a
man.
*!* K'
Adelaide theatres have had to make their
arrangements suit the new r coal-saving edict
that despatches last trams at 10 p.m., and
an early start is made accordingly. Jack
Waller at the Royal gives a revised version
of his old mixture, called “Look Who’s
Here.” As before, high-class music is a
feature of it (with Ivanoff, Wylie. Watson
and Dennett in the. lead V. and Welch-and
Rego have been drooped into the amusing
mixture. Lauder and Co., after their various
postponements, go to the Tivoli, with the
best seats at the startling price, for
Ade’a'de, of 10s. Poy Redgrave has moved
over to the -Majestic, and gives 10-minute
drama with’ Marie Dalton. Elton Black
imitates Lauder, and A 1 Bruce leads his co.
through a Kin g-of-Patn gon i a .absurdity.
Mabel Morgan's fine voice helps all tlie
time. In pictures, the most striking thing
is the apnearar>e e of Fred R'ou« at Wonder-
graph. Australia knows singularly little of
him. considering his b'g reputation on the
American variety stage, but h”re are sor»e
of his eccentricities on tlrn screen. The
Town Hall has been crowded for a few
showings of the Sunraysed film, with its
sensible policy of decentralisation and the
production of large, healthy communities all
along the fruit-growing settlements on the
Murray.
“D.” : When are the authorities going to
wake un and establish a cloak-room at the
Gap (South Head) to accommodate the
garments of intending Sydney suicides l
The alimony of the aristocracy may yet
be its undoing. When it is announced in
the Divorce Court that the Duchess of West-
minster retired from the ducal board and bed
on a mere £13,000 a year . because she
couldn’t ’ stand the ducal habits, it draws
attention to the fact that some of the
peerage has a lot more money than morals.
“Bardoc”: When the Franklin election
figures were going up in Hobart, the other
night, with Dave Dicker well on top, a
joyous soul with hops in his hair roared,
“Good old Dave! He’s the man ! I’ve been
with him on the scaffold.” It was only when
the roar had subsided that the crowd realised
the reveller was referring to the scaffold of
the timber cutters.
“H.H.8.”: An Irish squatter out our way
had just been made a J.P., and with his
new honors weighing heavily on him went
to a meeting of the Pastures Protection
Board. Matters did not go his way, and
at last, losing patience altogether, he jumped
to his feet and. shaking his fist at one oppo-
nent, roared, “If it wasn’t for bein’ a Jay
Pee I’d punch ye on the nose, so I
wud !” Then, on reflection: “To Hell tvid
bein' a Jay Pee!”
“Rangan”: For an up-to-date metropolis
come to Brisbane. Last week a party of
workmen fenced off a section of a busy
street corner in the heart of the city, and
prepared to dig themselves in. I asked what
for, and was told by the foreman that it
was to receive a memorial for soldiers who
fell in the war. Knowing Brisbane, I in-
quired “What war?” “The Boer War,”
said the foreman, and sarcastically added,
“Did yer think it was the Battle’r Water-
loo?”
Jokes ought always to be labelled. In
Adelaide a returned soldier claimed £137, his
allotment money, which he had asked the
wife of a friend to collect for him. She had
admitted spending it, and had urged that
her husband would be furious if he knew;
but in court the soldier produced this letter
from the husband:
One must send a few lines to our old boy to cheer
him up....We11, we have spent all your money.
You knew' very well that we would, because you
know we don’t like you, and we sold all your
clothes, and your old boots and hat, to buy our
motor-car. So what will you do and say now? Hang
on to faith, and faith will be yours. True friends
are hard to find, but you will find true friends in
ns. If you are spared, we will be able to meet
you with the car when vou come home. We have
another baby to ask you for pennies when you come.
She still insisted that her husband knew
nothing about her spending the money, and
that the letter must have been intended to
be airy persiflage. But, after a verdict was
given against her, an unbelieving counsel
said he would nave a go at the husband next.
“Boyd Cable” (London) : Captain Lang,
the Australian who has just established the
altitude record, was dragged uo to the ceil-
ing by a Napier engine. Two of these
engmes have been fitted in the Boulton-
Paul, which has been entered for the
Trans-Atlantic jaunt. This ’bus, built by
Bouiton and Paul, of Norwich, is an
adaptation of the co.’s ordinary commer-
cial-passenger machine, and there are some
features about the type that I’d recommend
Australia to keep an eye on. In Australia,
for many years to come, commercial routes
must cross wide tracts where a forced land-
ing would, strand passengers and mails many
weary miles from hope of continuing the
journey, and where the grass might grow a
yard high under the flier’s wheels before a
break-down or repair gang could arrive to
put the flier a-fly again. In the war plenty
of twin-engine aeros kept the air, when one
engine was a dud, long enough to re-cross
the lines ; but these were flying light. Many
others had to land on the wrong side. In
war a twin-engine pilot with a dud engine
could always dump his bombs overboard.
But a commercial pilot can’t well hurl his
passengers and mail overboard to lighten
ship and escape crashing on, say, the Blue
Mountains ; and it is practically a necessity
that he should have enough surplus power to
a.low him, if one engine “conks out,” to
head for the nearest landing-ground to effect
lepairs, or to a spot whence passengers and
mail can transfer to rail, or to which the
repair mechanics can hustle out with spares
in their pockets. This Boulton-Paul
machine gets nearer to Australian require-
ments than any other I’ve met so far.


BUIL T FOR WORK
I
■
ll;
■JT
H
m
■
BM
■
I i
%
ffijf
1111
I Wmmm
II illll
1
gMgil
M
*
“Chain Treads” will do any
work you have for them to
do and do it quickly,
dependably and with
remarkable economy.
Obtainable from all leading garages and
UNITED STATES RUBBER COMPANY
(Australasia) Limited,
53 York Street, SYDNEY; and 130-2 William Street, MELBOURNE.
ENSLAND
: Howard Motor & Cycle Co. Ltd., Brisbane,
. SOUTH AUSTRALIA : Bagot, Shakes & Lewis Ltd., Adelaide.
M§SZSUSTRALIA t Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.) Ltd., Perth.
HOBART : Irvine & McEachern.
LAUNCESTON: Buchanan, Davidson & Co. Ltd .
NE WZEALAND: Magnus, Sanderson &C o. Ltd., Wellington


X
' s >'\
m
A Specially Good Riding' Boot
THe StocKman, 17|6
This is not only the best Riding Boot on the market, but the best, value too. It’s a solid Tweed
Seamless Emperor, light in weight, but exceedingly strong. Note the patent strip on elastic.
1 his is a special feature, and ensures a double life for the elastic where it wears out so quickly
in the ordinary riding boot. Has standard screwed soles 17/6 post free.
SPECIAL PRICE, 17/6 POST FREE.
Mail your Order for a Pair to-day .
Post
Free.
Finney, Isles Co. Limited,
Queen &, Adelaide Streets, Brisbane— The Drapers of Queensland since 1864
POVERTY
POINT
MOET &
CHANDON
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
Weedon Grossmith, deceased last week,
was one of a large family of Grossmiths who
iiave figured on stage or platform. He was
son of George, for many years a reporter at
How-street and something of an actor, too;
brother of . a second George, known as
George, senior ; and uncle of George, junior,
and of Lawrence. George 11. got his big lift
when Gilbert and Sullivan chose him for the
name-part in the “Sorcerer,” which was
the beginning of his long connection with
G. and S. opera. George lll.’s success as a
drawing-room entertainer was rather feebly
touched upon in his book of reminiscences,
A Society Clown.” George 11., Woedon’s
brother, dated back to a time when the pro-
fession of humorous entertainer was not so
lucrative, but he must; have earned a good
living as lecturer and reciter. The jolly old
man was the most popular interpreter of
Dickens in his day. His humor was unctu-
ous. and although he never mummed out-
right on the lecture platform, he was a
SPOTS.
“What did the manager mean by saying that
Jack was never on the spot when he was
wanted?”
"I dunno. But speaking for myself, I'd far
sooner lie kept off the spots. He's been
having too many of 'em.”
forcible character impressionist. George
junior’s book did scant justice to the old
man’s powers.
“Vic”: Boyle Robertson Patey, who died
in Melbourne this week, aged over 90, was
father of two well-known Australian com-
edians and a comedienne. In boyhood, he
and Woolcott, a late Melbourne attorney,
were employed by London publishers. Both
remembered being sent to Dickens for copy.
In manhood Patey was connected both with
the English stage and newspapers. He
married Emma Weippert, a good vocalist,
daughter of a London manager, and
emigrated to Tasmania, where he drove a
journalist’s pen. Proceeding to Melbourne,
he was on the stage. I trace him as
Leporello, in the burlesque of “Little Don
Giovanni,” at the old wooden Princess’s.
He became managing clerk to attorney Lowe
and created a large police-court and district-
court business. His hobby for the past 20
years has been managing the Collingwood
Homes of Hope, established by pastor Cher-
bury, in whose wooden tabernacle in Sack-
ville-street “Elijah” Dowie began his re-
ligious circus.
“Spoilt Actor”: In “Eyes of Youth” a
school-scene relies for most of its comedy on
the playing of a dozen or so local youngsters.
Recently in Adelaide the “locals” were rein-
forced by a youth from Melbourne who,
besides being, one of the most prominent
scholars, officiated when off-stage as call-
boy. Rumors got abroad amongst the
Adelaide juveniles that the Victorian lad
was drawing more money for his services
than they. They couldn’t understand why,
and in a most unprofessional fashion they
determined to find out. The Melbourne
youth was wayaid on treasury night by the
leader of the Adelaide contingent—a spindle-
legged young lady of 12 or 13—and made to
open his pay-envelope. “Yes, he does get
more than us,” she shrilled out to her com-
panions. “That’s the worst of these im-
ported actors — they always do!”
Eileen Cottey, a pretty J.C.W. show-girl,
went to New York a couple of months agoi
and, like so many other Australians, made
an immediate success. She has a stout part
in “Good Morning, Judge,” a musical comedy
which is drawing big houses at the Schubert.
“Ox”: I have heard of actors shot or
stabbed during a play, but not till Wilkie’s
“Sign of the Cross” at the Sydney Royal* did
I see an actress tortured in reality. Olga
Agnew played the ill-used Christian boy
Stephanus, and was grabbed so realistically
by a Roman soldier that her face struck one
of the sharp points of his tin armor. The
cheek was pierced, and there was a gush of
blood and a little cry of pain.
“J.F.H.” (London) : Among the members
of the co. that Oscar Asclie took to Aus-
tralia was the heir-apparent to a baronetcy.
Gerard Will shire by name. He has now
succeeded to the title and estates by the
death of his father, Sir Maxwell Wilishire
a colonel in the Scots Guards.
“Jeune Premier”: The newest London
manager is Arthur Wontner, who was here
with the Julius Knight-Maud Jeffries com-
bination. He has made a good start, with
a three-act comedy by Gladys Unger,'“Our
Mr. Hepplewhite,” at the Criterion, in part-
nership with Mary Moore, Charles Wynd-
ham’s widow. Naturally, Wontner, being
Lie boss, has the leading male part; and
‘‘Lady Charles,” equally naturally, has the
fat” on the female side.
“Ike Pagliacci” : Sydney had a strangling
scene m drama recently. It nearly had one
>n grand opera. Rigo anticipated producing
‘ L’Oraeolo,” which, in America, has recently
been making the double with “Cavalleria.”
In this a Chinese doctor strangles an opium-
dealer with, his own pigtail to very fine
music. A policeman approaches and the doc.
props the corpse up and pretends to be in
earnest conversation. The cop. passes. The
doctor gets up, lights his pipe and goes off.
The corpse topples over and the curtain falls.
London. saw the cheery op-era in 1905, but
“Butterfly,” produced the same year, over-
shadowed it and “L’Oracolo” did not come
to light again till 1914. in N’York—again
with Scotti as the strangled Chow.
“U.T.”: The name of Nellie Mortyne
bobbed up again in London the other week.
The clever Australian character-actress was
suddenly called upon to play the part for
which she was understudy in “Scandal,” at
the Strand, under Arthur Bourchier’s man-
agement, and acquitted herself, as always,
excellently. The “principal” in the case,
by the way, was Gladys Ffolliott, who also
has been seen in Australia.
“T. 0.1.”: The production of “School
for Scandal” by Allan Wilkie recalls some
early Australian Sir Peter Teazles. The
Queen’s Theatre in Melbourne was opened
in 1845, and on July 3 “The School” was
produced for the first time in Port Phillip.
George Conpin was Sir Peter; Mrs. Coppin,
Lady Teazle; G. H. Rogers, who in later
years made a great hit as Sir Peter, was
then Sir Oliver. I would not account Cop-
pin’s Sir Peter a success. I saw him after-
wards, and to my mind he could not divest
himself of the characteristics of Tony Lump-
kin and Bob Acres, in which parts he excelled.
In the ’fifties we had two Sir Peters of sur-
passing excellence. One was J. C. Lam-
bert, who played as the refined gentleman,
ever considerate for the lady, and in dress
and manner made a courtly old baronet. The
second was G. H. Rogers—-“ Old Rogers,” as
we called him, though he was anything but
old ; but old men were his specialty. Lam-
bert was clean and natty ; Rogers bore dis-
tinct evidence of the farm, as he did in his
Sir Anthony Absolute, which also was a very
fine performance. In later years J. F. Cath-
cart undertook Sir Peter, and was as different
from the other two as it is possible to con-
ceive. He was solid, methodical, angular
and made up of postures. Minor men I have
seen in the part; but Lambert and Rogers
stand high above the rest.
“Bull Point”: What a leg-puller Melba
is! In response to a good hearing from a
crowded house at Plymouth Guildhall, on
April 23, she gushed to us as follows: “It is
five years since I was with you last, and
we have been through much since then. I
thank you for coming to-night, and I just
love to be with you. for England is my
home, and I just love it and you people.”
Dan Barry played upon the affections
of the bush towns in the same way. Cow
Flat used to stamp its approval when the
parting Dan promised to come back and
make his home there when he retired frdm
the stage.
“C. Ockney”: Weedon Grossmith, who
died the other day, was a versatile little
“Jack and Jill," at
Sydney Palace.
Charles Albert as the
Spaniard Alvarez.
man. Starting life
as an artist, he
got one or two
pictures into the
R.A., and then
turned to grease-
paint. After mak-
ing a success as
a comedian he
thought he would
like journalism
better, wrote a
book with his
brother George
(the combination
was known as
“Gee-Gee” and
“Wee-Gee”). and
contributed to
Punch. Anon lie
tried his hand as
a dramatist and
scored once more
with the well-
known farce “The
Night of the Party.” George Grossmitß,
the Gaiety comedian and last of the Gee-
Gees, is Weedon’s nephew.
“Norbell”: It pains me to have an old
friend libelled by “Ox,” who says (8.,
12/6/19) that Jefferson Tait is our only
stage-villain who has been consistently
criminal, all other villains having occasion-
ally lapsed into virtue. Long ago Tait and
I impersonated “Charles, his friend,” police-
men, footmen, and blameless people of that
kind in the same co., and later on Tait
heroed for Charles Holloway and others.
Moreover, I saw Tait being perfectly up-
right in a Brisbane explosion not long ago.
But, alas, all heroes become villains in the
end. They coquet with crime in hero-
villain parts like Starlight, in “Robbery
Under Arms,” until they become wholly de-
praved. George Rignold's Paolo Macari and
Mephistopheles are remembered, whilst hun-
dreds of his shining heroes are forgotten. I
fully expect to see Julius Knight do Bill
Sikes some day. After a long career of un-
sullied virtue with Bland Holt. Walter Baker
broke out as the villain in “White Heather.”
But he was not a ‘successful scoundrel. The
audience was embarrassed, and couldn't de-
cide whether to hoot or cheer him when he
committed a revolting crime. I don’t know
why villain parts are so popular with mum-
mers. They take more memorising, as vil-
lains are usually more talkative than heroes,
and they require more morning coats, even-
ing suits and glad rags generally. Also
nobodv loves the villain. All night the fur-
tive wretch is shifting from “down R.” to
“down L.,” and standing in the corner to
be abused and insulted by the full strength
of the company, not to mention the audience.
Perhaps villainy is its own reward.
“Gecko”: Allan Wilkie’s preliminary no-
tification of “Trilby” deals reminiscently with
some former Australian productions. He
cites the Edith Crane-Reuben Fax Co.
11896) and the Edith Crane-Tyrone Pow r er
performance (1901), but makes no mention
of the -Nellie Stewart show at Sydney Royal
10 years ago. To my mind this was the
best production of “Trilby” seen here. Sweet
Nell made an ideal Trilby, and Gaston
Mervale teas Svengali. The supporting cast
was a particularly good one, and Harcourt
Beatty, Eardley Turner. J. B. Atholwood,
Gregan McMahon, Norman Campbell,
Jerome Patrick and George Thorne had
parts that fitted them. By the way, Mer-
vale was the only Svengali we have had
who actually played the “Rosamond” of
Schubert on the studio piano in Act 1.
Tyrone Power, who also played the piano
well, wouldn’t chance it, but left it to the
usual ghost behind the scenes to “make
music for the pig-dogs.” The Bulletin
published a photo of a bust of Mervale as
Svengali, which had been modelled by the
clever fingers of Jimmy Atholwood.
“Simpleton”: Good houses ruled the other
week at Adelaide Tivoli for “The Secrets
of the Bolsheviks.” We’d seen the piece
played many years ago, but we knew it then
as “The Assassin.” What’s in a name?
Well, among other things, money.
“M.P.A ” : Our co. was playing at Christ-
church (M.L.) while Sousa and his band
were making the King Edward Barracks riug
with rag and other time. A bunch of girls
had been to a matinee show of Sousa’s, and
were just raving about the music, when
Kelly, our wardrobe mistress, put her head
in the dressing-room door. “Hello, Kelly,”
said one of the girls—“been to hear Sousa
yet?” “What chance have I to hear Sousa
with the stage-manager always on my track?”
replied Kelly.' “Go on. Kelly, be a sport
and take a chance. We’ll tell the tale if
he comes looking for you,” urged one of
the enthusiasts. “Well, I’ll go. girls, but I’m
sure he’ll find out the minute I’m gone,” said
the dubious Kelly. When she had got into
the hall and made herself as comfortable as
her feelings would allow, an announcement
was shot on the screen, “Has Anybody Here
Seen Kelly?” Kelly didn’t wait to read any
more. She just got up and fled. “I knew
it was no go,” she gasped, as she returned
to the girls—“he was certain to find out.”
“Bally Who” : Not many credit wax-figures
with versatility, but when part of my duty
was to dust down the Royal Family and lock
up the Chamber of Horrors for the night we
had some tip-top impersonators. There was
No. 316, for instance —a colored gentleman
who figured at various times as Ranjitsinghi,
negro-convict King, and a young slave in our
Christmas specialty, “Uncle Tom in the
Cottonfields.” When W. G. Grace died we
took the whiskers off No. S 3 (W. T. Stead)
and redraped his face with a special crepe set
in the cricketer’s pet style. The wireless
caught murderer Crippen in mid-ocean, and
the doom of No. 79 (Lord Roberts) had
come. It brought tears to my eyes to
pluck the V.C. from his chest and send his
beautiful uniform to the wardrobe, but the
public waited. I revisited my old haunts
lately and saw Crippen in a new moustache
and a fresh slouch hat as—l hate to say it
—Billy Hughes.
“Bob Ray”: Add these Silver Kings to
“Glen Huntly’s” list (B. 5/6/’l9) —Laur-
ence Cantley (1890), George Rignold
(1892), Edward Sass in Bland Holt’s pro-
duction of 1895, Harry. Plimmer (1909). 1
fancy “G.H.” has allotted some of the Nel-
lies to the wrong partners. Henriette Wat-
son was, I think. George Rignold’s Nellie
Denver, not Wilson Barrett’s. Barrett was
here in 1898 and 1901 and produced “The
Silver King” both times. Maud Jeffries
was his first Nellie and Lillah McCarthy his
second.
“GOODY TWO SHOES.” AT SYDNEY
MAJESTY’S.
Fred Walton a? the toy soldier changing
guard.
Died in England a few weeks ago William
Hargreaves, aged 8-3. He was a well-known
and respected mummer whose reputation
rested on the playing of one part. That
was old _ Cattermole, the choleric uncle in
“The Private Secretary.” This character
Hargreaves had made his own in “the pro-
vinces” over a period of 23 years.
George Rignold once played Romeo to a
different Juliet in each act of the tragedy.
The freak performance took place in America
in 1877. It couldn’t have taken place any-
where else.
THE PUZZLE.
[For The Bulletin.]
Last night, when you and I stood there,
Under the lowered lamp above the stair,
You said: “Farewell, I nothing have for you!”
Now, who the deuce gave me that satin shoe?
F.S.w. BILLY B.
CONSIDERATE HARRY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN .]
‘ Harry Lauder made most of his reputation as a
corner.lan by singing in praise of a wee deoch an'
dor rs, and announcing that he was fu’ th’ rroo; but
in these later days he whispers of a ‘coop o’ tea.’ ”
12/0/'l9).
A thrifty Scot can never be blind
To the care of the wee bawbees,
So considerate Harry bears in mind
The price of commodities!
And the thirsty crowd should dry the tear
And think of the prices “steep”—
At the time he sang of whisky and beer
J'he beautiful things were cheap!
VICTORIA.
BILL BILE.


KEEP FIT
by using Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
The golden rule at all times
is to keep fit and avoid infec-
tion as much as
To achieve this means, of course, tem-
perate living, regular exercise and general
observance of the ordinary rules of clean-
liness and health. Unfortunately, since
the bulk of the Influenza restrictions
were last lifted, many people have grown
careless, although the danger is not over, and it is now
more so than ever the duty of every citizen to look after
himself. Personal precautions are going to achieve more
than the precautions prescribed by the authorities in the
way of completely wiping out the epidemic.
To-day everyone is being affected as the result of this epidemic.
If not attacked by the disease, they are sustaining monetary loss, or at
least being inconvenienced. It therefore behoves everyone to do his
utmost to wipe out this scourge. Ever since the Influenza first made its
appearance in Australia the people have been advised to take Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills freely, for the purpose of keeping their systems in
regular working order. The value of this advice has been demonstrated by
the large number who have followed it and found the pills do all that is
claimed for them. So satisfactory has this remedy proved that the demand
has been continually increasing, and the sales now exceed five million
pills a month. At no time has such a record been achieved before in this
country by any similar remedy. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are known
to hundreds of thousands of people throughout Australia as a searching,
cleansing medicine, and to-day they stand higher in public confidence than
ever before.


Sydney Harbor, dressed in its best, was
incomparably beautiful on the morning of
Admiral Jellicoe’s arrival. Like King
George IV. Whisky, “our harbor” is without
a rival.—Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LIHITED, Redfern, Sydney.
LEWIS &
WhITTY
MAKERS;
. V <*
m m
m
’m&Z.
tSSP^fflfe
mm
MfC
BRINDS GIN
10077
Matured and
Mellow —a
Grand DrinK
PA TO N
Do Ybur Pals a Good
Turn-lnhroduce Them
ho Hie Great Refreshen
SPORTING
NOTIONS
"NO TOP" WITH
MICK SIMMONS
SURE CATCH TACKLE
On the day Rebus won the Sydney Cup
Millie Kenilworth, a two-year-old, made a sensation
by spread-eagling a couple of dozen rivals and paying
i J' 0 * v - 011 tile tote. And on Saturday she
helped herself to a division of the liosehill Flying
Welter at tens. She was ridden both times by
George Meddiek. Meddick, by the way, is well up
the list of N. S. Wales winning jocks this year.
He is not the most accomplished of finishers, but at
getting away from the barrier he is one of the best,
and over short courses that means a lot.
* * * ' *
The firstfruit of Land of Song’s harem
to start earning oats on Sydney courses was Some
Song -who took a division of the Juvenile Stakes at
uosehill on Saturday. The gelding’s breeder, 0. R.
ralkiner, thought him good enough to retain as a
yearling-. He is looked after by W. Booth.
*■■*■*•*
There are more tote fielders in M.L. than
at any time in history. The Pharisaical law which
prevents the newspapers mentioning the dividends
paid by winners has the result of provoking an acute
demand for details, to meet which Ike freely sup-
plies printed lists. With the result that he gets
clients and they find an avenue along which to send
their money.
* * * *
Last week a Sydney bookmaker attempted
to add to the profits of his calling by sly-grog selling.
Result, a fine, of £5O, with the option of six
months. Yet in the past 12 months, at big meet-
ings. <9 per cent, of the favorites have gone down;
and during the last four weeks, out of 30 races run
round Sydney, only five favorites have rolled home.
Some men never know when they are on to a good
thing.
* ■ * * *
Good judges are tipping Old Mungindi
again for the Grand National Steeple, as they did
two years ago. Last year lie went amiss, but at
time of writing he shapes just as he should three
weeks before the event. With only a stone more to
carry than when he outraced the great Caibye round
the National course, Mungindi has a chance as good
as the best, for he is not yet old among ’chasers.
Cobram, last year’s winner, is older than the N. S.
Wales champion, and he also has a stone more than
he did the trick with, so it is hard to see why the
old grey should be preferred to his predecessor.
The writer reckons that Mungindi’s defeat of Caibye
and W aimai in 1917 (none of the others ever having
a chance against the trio) was a better performance
than Cobram put up last year. The 1917 Steeple
was a splendid race all the way, and a month later,
when Caibye turned the tables on his conqueror in
the Australian Steeple, Mungindi did well to run
third with 12st. 21b. up. Even on that performance
he seems to have a great show for this year’s National
on the 12st. mark.
* * * *
One of the conundrums of Sydney racing
this season has been: Why back the one-time Banana-
land champion Amberdown ? There is always money
for him—-sometimes heaps of it. Yet, except in one
race, which he didn’t win, in the Spring, the horse
has done nothing to encourage this confident piling
of money on him. Perhaps he may unwind after
another spell, but once a stallion takes to running
like a mule he generally persists in the habit.
* * * *
The liosehill Birthday Meeting was no
festival for the books, favorites romping home with
much regularity for a change. Graplione was sup-
posed originally to have a mortgage on the Hurdle
Double, but with this reliable performer scratched
the Dorchester gelding Goonaugledene had nothing
to beat provided he stood up. Peat ran a fair
race in the Birthday Handicap, although he was
never in it with the wanner, Varico, who, steered
by Lillyman, won pretty much as he liked.
* * -ir *
Gloaming, the M.L. crack, is leaving for
Sydney as soon as possible under the care of R J.
Mason.
Sir Prim put up a remarkable perform-
ance in the Wanda Steeple at Caulfield on Saturday.
Humping 81b. more than he will bear in the
National, he made such good ones as Old Mungindi
and Jack Rice; look like hacks. Jack Rice, how-
ever, as has been remarked before on this page,
will not do himself justice at Caulfield. The time
was a record for the race, and, taking the rest of
the circumstances into consideration, there is a
distinctly roseate complexion about Sir Prim’s
National chances.
* * * *
S. Australia promises to make a big bid
for the N-tional double with Mount M’Ttsin and
Doiran. '.The hurdler has won races on the flat as
well as over the sticks, and Doiran was declared by
some people to have been unlucky to lose the Steeple
last year. He struck the final fence through a bit
of a scrimmage, and could get no nearer than fifth
but up to the time of the mishap the S’Australian
was going strong. The handicapper has given Doiran
a olb. rise only, and has rated Mount Miltsin no'
higher than 9st. 91b. Jumpers from Adelaide have
not of late been marked dangerous like they were
of old, so it is time that form re-asserted itself.
* * * *
Though unlucky in his two previous starts
Tpoh was made favorite for the Rosny Plate at
Caulfield on Saturday, and duly won. This makes
the third year in succession the Silent Friend—Merry
Queen gelding has scored in the event. The result
might have been different had not Linass, Belgian
Consort and Milluna fallen. Minass was third last
year.
* * * *
. The Hurdle Race at Caulfield on Saturday
made a considerable change in the outlook for the
National, inasmuch as Lord Nagar, Beltane and
Rosyth came to grief, and, one doesn't Like to see
one’s chosen fancy toppling over the timber a fort-
night before he undertakes a bigger job. Sandule,
with the accomplished Cairns up, was another that
came a cropper and had his National chance dis-
counted. Tinana, the winner, had been backed as
though he were about to surprise some of the punters,
and if this spry five-year-old can do the three miles
at Flemington (which he probably will fail to do),
he should start favorite on July 5. Kinlark, Sir
Thomas (the Irish horse) and Lootoo ran respectably,
but F astolf, one of the consistently good performers
last year, ran a lot below his best form, and can be
ruled out of notice for the present.
* * # •
“8.0. N.”: How’s this for in and out?
When Suma won in a hurdle race at Epsom a few
weeks ago his price was anything between 20 to 1
and 50 to I—with no takers. His only run since
was at Moonee Valley, when backers, having heard
something, nearly knocked the bookies off tneir
stands in their haste to lay 11 to 8 on him. it
only spoils the story to tell the truth and say that
he won; but it was by only half a length.
* * * * •*
The English Jockey Club is taking in
hand two much-needed reforms. One is that of the
strange rule which makes a nomination void if the
owner dies before the race. This can easily be
altered. Much more important is the new idea of
finding some accommodation for the general public,
especially at the older and more fashionable courses.
Racing in the past was a game for the wealthy mem-
her or the poor hanger-on; but now the casual
spectator calls for attention. It will probably be
given by simply empowering the present official
Inspector of Courses to have an eye to stands and
enclosures as well.
* * # »
Vincent A. Zed, the new racehorse owner
in Adelaide, had never been on a course before
he saw the recent Birthday Cup. He doe 3 not
bet, and his. good string of horses in training,
bought by him from contractor Timms, will run
only for the sport of the thing, He has bought
also Timms’s stud-farm at Lilydale (Vic.), but has
changed his mind about a trainer, and has engaged
J. James to manage for him in Adelaide.
* * -* *
London Field (3/5/T9) gives a page to
the Australian tennis players, with portraits of
Patterson, Lycett and Rod Heath, Doust and Jones,
and O’Hara Wood. With Norman Brookes (on the
way) and R. V. Thomas, “the fortune of the great
war has cast up on the courts of England nearly
every player of the Commonwealth who would be
regarded favorably by a Davis Cup selection commit-
tee.” Patterson gets most attention as “a great
player, and all his greatness has not yet come out.
There are few very great servers, but this
Melbourne youth is one of them Fortunate the
country that can put into court so fine a team of
players; great indeed in strokes, strategy and
stamina the man who can beat them all.”
* * * *
The A.I.F. XI beat the powerful York-
shire team by one wicket, chiefly owing to a
sensational partnership by Gregory and Lang. The
soldiers have played all the strongest counties of
pre-war days—including Kent, Surrey and Lancashire
—and have done well against them. They should
give the best team England can bring against them
a good game at the worst.
* * * *
Inter-’Varsity rowing is to re-start on the
Parramatta in August. Brisbane Uni. will be a
competitor for the first time in its history. Most
of the cracks of the davs before the fixture was
dropped are in France or England—some dead, some
living. Of the living a number are rowing in
the Service events at the coming Henley-on-Thames
Regatta.
* * * *
Before the war Brisbane had an aero club
which did much good preliminary flying work. But
enthusiasm dwindled and left, only a few keen souls.
A meeting was called with the‘idea of disbanding
the club, and in the midst of it a young chap stood
up—he had come 200 miles to attend the meeting—'
and strenuously objected to the closure. His en-
thusiasm infected the others and they decided to fly
on. Bert Hinkler was the objector, and now he
wants to do a flight from England to his home town
of Bundaberg.
* * * *
The third M.L. v. N.S.W. game at
Sydney, on Saturday, was a mediocre affair. The
tackling', except when the forwards clashed, was
weak. In the scrums the hefty front ranks of
M.L. were again superior; but, as in the other
matches, the N. S. Wales hacks ran through and
around their opponents with a regularity that grew
monotonous. In the first half M.L. led bv 10—8 ;
and early in the second the Blacks were 18 —8 to
the good. Then N. S. Wales started and piled up
31 phints while the Islanders scored two (a penalty
goal). In the closing stages, M.L. rallied, and were
adding points when the whistle sounded, with the
scores 39 —31. Several forwards on both sides plaved
the man as much , as the ball. sb 0 -dd bn VP br on
ser.t to the pavilion. This tendency requires treat-
ment by the League authorities before it becomes a
vice.
In the teams were two of the oldest players in
Australasia—Ted Courtr.ey (N.S.W.) and Jas. Ruku-
tai (M.L.). Court "ev was a Rugby Union
forward originally, and first pulled on the rep. iersey
in 1908. He has nlaved for Australia and N. S.
Wales against England, Maori!" nd. Maoris and
Queensland, and had a trip to England with the
Kangaroos. The brown-skinned, curly-haired six-
foot Rukutai ' 'plays with the City Club (Auck-
land). He was previously in Australia with the
' Maoris (1909) and the M.L. Xlll s of 1911 and
1912. Both are in the 40 s, or thereabouts.
On Monday both teams were short-handed—more
particularly N. S. Wales. M.L. led at half-time
(16-8), but, as before, N.S.W. tore itself together and
finished in the lead ; this time by the paltry margin
of 22-19. The goal-kicking of both parties was
rotten.
The net “gate” of the,.four rep. matches yielded
about £BOOO to,' the N.S.W. Rugbs-'League. Add
to this a heavy issue of season tickets at £ Is. Bd.
each, and it will be seen that this brand of ball
is at present in a sound financial position. - .
* *• * * *
“Trot”: N. S. Wales will not always wal-
loo M.L. at the winter game. Henare has not yet
taken the two thirteens struggle seriously. The
thing is only in the propaganda stage, and the team
now in Australia is no more representative of M.L.
football than it is of M.L. religion. f Once the lads
across the Tasman drop Rugby and concentrate on
the brighter game, Sydneysiders can depend on hav-
ing a busy time. Even among the tophole Rugby
players dozens of names can be ' mentioned of men
who would have been stars in the League game.
Sydney barrackers cannot conceive of there ever
having been anyone quite so good as Horder or Wall.
Yet George Smith, an ex-jockey, who, after playing
in Auckland, did big things as a ball pro. in Eng-
land, was better than either of them. And what
sort of hash would E. Suburbs make of Balmain if
it had backs of the quality of old .lack Taiaroa, or
Deane, Davy Gage, Jimmy Duncan, Billy Wallace,
' r-i. r, George Goode, Skinny Humphries or Fred
Roberts ?
IFWERSON. M.L.
goalkicker
Herewith K. Ifwerson, the most danger-
™n hi the visiting M.L. team, In every matcli
ot the tour he has piled up points', and he had the
nrst score on the board on Monday before he re-
tired with a damaged shoulder. ' He plays with
Grafton Club (Auckland) when he is at home, and
is only „6. Ifwerson became converted to, the
League game in 1913, and crossed to Australia with
the Rugby League team of that year. He also
donned the black jersey v. England in 1914; and
Voi 4 ! i) W, or Auckland in rep. matches in 1913,
J.yj.4 and 1918.
• * * * *
Joe Beckett knocked out Goddard in two
rounds at the Olympia (London) last week. In
addition to collecting £2OOO and a gold cup he thus
qualifies to meet Carpentier. This contest was
staged by Cochran, the big London theatrical pro-
ducer, i| opposition to the National Sporting Club,
(ihe N.S.C. had. previously barred Beckett for re-
fusing to meet Goddard.) The championship posi-
tion in England at present is slightly mixed. God-
dard has beaten Jack Curphey and Beckett. He was
attei wells; but the Bombardier, thinking Beckett
looked easier, side-stepped a big N.S.C. match with
, n a _ nc * took on Joseph, and was promptly
knocked out. Beckett is now in a position to
spurn the N.S.C. if he wishes, and ask almost any
terms in reason for the Carpentier match. Tom
McCormick, Rolph and Dick Smith are others in
the Carpentier class.
* * * «
„ Two game lads met at Sydney Stadium on
Saturday night—Sid Godfrey and Bob Williams.
Godfrey is a feather-weight normally (he only made
Bst. 21b. for Williams, who with difficulty got
down to 9st. BMb.), but his latest feat gives him
the N. S. Wales lightweight championship. The ex-
champ. is a clever boxer, with a good, if light,
straight left; Godfrey is a tearing little fighter,
full of strength and vim. The fighter wore down
the boxer, and in the 20th round, though Williams
was still standing and making a fight of it of a
sort, the referee indicated Godfrey.
* * » •
The Svdney featherweight Jack Bmvj
knocked out Mick Fitzgerald in the 12th round at
Brisbane Stadium on Saturday night. It was a
one-sided affair.
* * * #
Jack Finney destroyed Ben Stanley in
short order at Sydney Stadium on Monday night.
Stanley had been substituted at brief notice for
Theo Green, and had neither the condition nor the
strategy requisite for the job.
* * * $
A Casino (N.S.W.) magistrate sentenced
a couple of citizens to "the rising’’ last week for
plaving respectively darto and devil’s bowling alley.
Both under the Vagrancy Act. Governor-Generals.
Governors, Admirals and Judges bet on horse-racing
—the most conspicuous example of a game of chance.
The most prominent members of the community
habitually stake money on the turn of a card. Yet
returned soldiers are summoned for wagering that
they will spear the right color at darto. There is
no sense or equity in such a situation. The Statute
dates from William TV., and lias /been a superfluity
for half a century or more.
* * •* *
‘'Centurion”: If the farmers take.to train-
ing falcons to chase birds from their crops, as
suggested by “Melos” (B. 12/6/’l9), they won't have
time to grow any crops. It takes two years to
train a hawk, and even then, “Melos” notwith-
standing the bird never becomes “docile and reliable.
There are very tew men competent to do the work
in Britain, at any rate, where the professional
falconers maintained by an occasional old count}
family, like the Pilkingtons of North Lancs, are
drawn from one or two houses in which the art
and practice of falconry are hereditary. The hawks
used are the peregrine falcon, the merlin and the
sparrow-hawk. The lady peregrine is bigger and
fiercer than her mate, the tiercel, or tassel-gentle
as Shakspeare calls him. The peregrines catch
their game by mounting above it, and swooping as
an aeroplane attacks. The other types “run down
their quarry by sheer pace. Once ‘ struck the
falcon “bind's” the quarry and volplanes to earth,
where the falconer, usually mounted, picks them
both up. If a falcon misses her “striae” she is
just as likely to knock off work as not, and then
the falconer has to use the “lure,” a meat bait on
a long cord, which he whirls round his head in
the air, to coax her back. The falcons are caught
young, either as “haggards” (fledglings from the
eyries) or as “passagers” (young hawks in their
first migration flight). The latter are the better,
and there was a select but flourishing trade trap-
ping them on the coast of Holland, which lies on
the birds’ line of flight from the Norway fiords to
southerly climates. The falcon is carried, blind-
folded, with the “hood,” and held on the right
hand by leather “jesses” slipped through rings
fastened to the hawk’s leg, and twisted in the
falconer’s fingers. When the quarry is sighted the
bird is unhooded, the “jesses” slipped, and the
hawk tossed into the air. Though only an old-
world survival in Britain, hawking was practised
in Hungary before the war, and flourishes in
Turkestan, India and Western China. The Sinai
Bedouin also practise hawking, and Australian troops
in Sinai saw the tamed and hooded hawks more than
once, though I don’t know if anyone ever watched
them at work.
* * » *
Tlie, greatest Vic. League match of the
season was fought out between Souths and Carlton
on Saturday. Souths started with the wind, and
scored in consequence. Then Carlton uprose, and,
playing with skill and vim, made things even or
thereabouts. As a matter of fact, the issue was
alwavs in doubt up to the final bell, which left
Souths five points ahead.
“Jobber”: Some men do love a mill. At
a race meeting near Adavale (Q.) a bushman, half-
oiled, came tniongh the gates roaring “t il figm
anyone on the course for a fiver 1” He was at once
accommodated, with the remark, “Here’s into you
for a skinful, you !” The pair, perfect
strangers, with no quarrel, went at it until John
blew along and logged both.
‘"Six-arid-eight”: The Tocumwal beak
referred to by “Ingelara” (B/5/6/’l9) correctly de-
emed that, in the circumstances mentioned, ' pro-
ceedings could not successfully be taken for trespass
to enclosed, lands; but undoubtedly a civil action for
trespass to land would lie. The Tocumwal decision
will not be “handy” for anybody with money, because
in a case of wilful trespass for the purpose of fishing
punitive damages could be awarded, and where the
sacred rights of Propputy are concerned what could
any poor beaks do but make them heavy? “Ingel-
ara's ' excellent suggestion that .N. S. Wales should
follow Victoria’s lead in the matter of providing
access to rivers is too practical to get any attention
from Ma State’s hopelessly antediluvian politicians.
Aviator Harry Hawker’s father is a man
of grit, too. When “local preaching” he was unable
to proceed to Daylesford on Saturday through a
mishap, but Sunday morning he started early and
pushed his bike 70 miles and occupied the pulpit
on arrival.
* * * . *
Winston Churchill’s *new Flying Regula-
tions are chiefly remarkable for throwing over tin-
rule of the road which Australia copied from Britain,
but is almost unknown elsewhere. Airmen will, like
drivers of all kinds in America and the continent
of Europe, keep to the right. They will pass by
keeping still more to the right—a thing impossible
on a road. Diving to pass is forbidden. No civilian
may fly over a town except at so great a height
that he can land outside it by gliding if his engine
fails; and the modern fool-trick of doing fancy
performances just over a race-meeting or procession
is barred. Nobody may go within three miles of
[a long list of]. dockyards, on pain of being fired at;
if he finds himself there inadvertently he must
give prescribed signals and land at once. Lights
are to be front and back, visible five miles; at
the sides green and red, visible three. All machines
must be tested daily; and a searching examination
is made of heart, lungs and kidneys, eyes, ears and
throat, before a pilot (who must be at least 19)
can get a certificate. One requisite before anyone
may be passed is to go up 6000 feet, stay up an
hour, cut off the engine at 4500 feet and then glide-
down, finishing within 150 yards of the examiner.
If the airman asuivps to take passengers, there are
further tests, including a long night flight.
* * * *
According to a cable last week “the atti-
tude of the English Rugby Union regarding an
alteration of the laws of the game or rules in the
direction of professionalism is unyielding and un-
compromising.” It is a sign that England is
recoverinp- from its severe bout of war-fever. During
the period of strife unheard-of things were done.
Professionals played football against amateurs; pugs
got commissions, and fought publicly with non-
commissioned pugs, and also with amateur boxers;
well-known jockeys such as Percy Woodland and
the Wcottons became lieutenants and captains, and
rode in cross-country events as si mole soldiers. In
some eases they had the nerve to claim the amateurs’
allowances in steeple everts, though they were
probablv a stone or more better than any amateur
available. Now that the trouble is over' the chaff
will be separated from the wheat; amateur cricketers
will have “Mr." in front of ~ their names once
more; and the ex-officer horsemen will start to
touch their hats again to owners who, perhaps, were
their inferiors in rank in the field. It is the
English way. < '
“MUGS FOR LUCK.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It's “mugs for luck,” the punters say,
And they should surely know —
The men who once were brave and gay,
But now- go sadly slow.
They know the pitfalls of the game,
Which may mean much for one.
And for another loss and shame,
Both cash and honor gone.
Yes, “mugs for luck.” It’s so at first;
They start out keen and hale.
Until at last their bubbles burst,
And it is mugs for gaol.
N.S.W.
THE STABLE SCEPTIC.


Be a Good Boxer, Able to Take Your Part.
A skilful boxer is a man to be envied and admired. He has himself
under complete control—he has been taught to be patient and tolerant.
He is not easily “put out,” and is usually the last to seek a quarrel.
When he is forced, however, to defend himself, he does it with a quiet
calm that breathes self-confidence in his every action. He is not in the
least “flurried,” but has a set plan, and adapts himself to circumstances.
He reserves his strength until the other fellow is getting “groggy”—he is
always doing the right thing at the right time.
Would you like to be a skilful boxer —to be able to give aggressive
individuals a couple of stone and a beating? Then why not let me teach
you scientific boxing in your own home?
Boxing is valuable exercise for body and brain. It promotes deep-breathing,
and enables you to store up a reserve of vitality which is your best defence
against epidemics. Medical authorities have wisely recommended judicious
exercise as a preventive of the “ ’Flu.”
I Teach Boxing by Post.
I want to tell you all about my methods —how
simple and interesting thev are—what rapid progress
you’ll make under my instruction. I unfold to
you my wide knowledge of the manly art of self-
defence—-teach you every “hit,” “move” and “stop”
of the world’s leading boxers.
Write for my interesting booklet, “Scientific Boxing
in the Home,” which describes my methods, terms,
etc. Send Three Stamps to cover postage.
Those desiring to avail themselves of per-
sonal instruction at my Institute are
invited to call and have a chat with me
about their when I shall be happy
to show them over my modern and per-
fectly-appointed establishment.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
Australia’s Leading Physical Culture Institute,
56 Municipal Buildings,
82a Oxford St. (Cr. Crown St.), Sydney
BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO.LTD.
ALL STATES ti HEW ZEALAND
Is Your Dog Ready?
Training Now in Full Swing.
2^
TONIC AND CONDITION BALLS
Purify the blood, prevent worms, produce
first-rate condition for coursing.
■Price 2/6 Pet box.
STIMULATOR FOR RACING HOUNDS.
For external use during coursing. Alleviates
stiffness and fatigue. Price 3/o per bottle.
Booklet, “HINTS TO DOG OWNERS,”
Price 6d. Post Free.
R. W. BEDDOME <£L CO.,
Dog Medicine Specialists,
254 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
Obtainable also from
JOHN BRUSH PTY. LTD., SYDNEY:
WALTHER & STEVENSON, 393 eorge St , SYDNEY
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOB
MINING. MILLING, etc.
INCLUDING
STEAH ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL BE POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO
THE SECRETARY,
Box 229 G.P.0.,
MELBOURNE.
THE GENERAL MANAGER,
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
THE SECRETARY,
Box 220 G.P.0.,
SYDNhY.
Moore 4-Speed Gear Box for FORDS £25
ALL £*> SCREWS
LMSIK.STI PILOTS
I Wl> OF CASE
•HEWS HS.A.I |
fPff
I
fcftCMlt shimn VtottM
.m CWTCH Cf SPECiAI
SrliFTEft shaft
-*fcv QtUb WL FOfcoi
L;2 HYATT Ht'OUTY KCUCft RLABIN4S
TSflU&tt HQLLOW_St4AfT
rfcMACWWMIM|
&«rtL SKA*? TI»L
IS Cl-AMPtO |M
The cost of fitting is limited
to taking down rear axle,
bolting Gear Box to Diif. Case
and re-assembling.
New Drive Shaft and all Fit-
tings supplied.
Gives additional intermediate
Gear.
Free Engine.
Overdrive Gear.
All Spare Parts.
2 Ford Truck Models.
Wsstott, Hazjll 8 Co. Ltd.,
Suppliers of ALL MOTOR ACCESSORIES, 311 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Spiral Gear Drive, H.T. MAGNETO BRACKET
Complete and ready to fit FJRD CARS.
©
o
Overcomes
all
Ignition
and
Lighting
troubles,
£5/10/-
Westcott, Hazell & Co. Ltd.
SUPPLIERS OF ALL MOTOR ACCESSORIES,
311 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
A Good Cigar at a Moderate Price—
“CAßO LA.”
MILD, BURNS FREELY, FINE AROMA.
SAMPLE BOXES POST FREE.
11/6 Box of 25. 22/6 Box of 50.
A Really Pure and Healthy
FULL-SIZE VIRGINIAN LEAF CIGARETTE
“SATIN FINISH.”
5/6 Box of 100. 2/9 Box of 50.
POST FREE.
A. A. MARKS, 376 George St., Sydney,
Cigar and Tobacco Importer. BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE CITY.
mmm
mH
mk
■Svw
is£
7
as
sa
SWd*
i«f
Safa
UMK
11
$
mmm
Mm
IB
w
3g>»
aa&g
KYNOCH
AMMUNITION
“PRIM AX” and “BON AX”
CARTRIDGES—KYNOCH made
and loaded. Both possess excellent shoot-
ing qualities, “PRIMAX” being the
highest-grade cartridge in a 21-inch case
sold on the Australasian market, while
“JBONAX” enjoys the largest sale of
any individual cartridge in the world.
Always specify KYNOCH Ammunition
when ordering from your dealer.
British-made
Throughout.
k&S
oQ>
L.oa
CM
Wholesale only—Scottish House, 90 William
Kynoch House, 277 Clarence
Street, Melbourne.
Street, Sydney.
“Warrigal” Gap Bed Lathe
with Hollow Spindle.
EMBODIES ESSENTIAL QUALITIES—
ACCURACY, RIGIDITY, STRENGTH.
Of" Centre. 10' Bed.
SWINGS 34 INCHES IN GAP.
HOLLOW SPINDLE 2£ INCHES DIAMETER.
DELIVERY FROM STOCK. Inspection Invited.
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.
490-492 Kent Street, SYDNEY.


SATURDAY MORNING SPECIALS
“FRESH-MADE” SWEETS AT FARMER’S.
EACH Saturday morning Farmer’s Confectionery department
will be worth a special visit, for there will be on sale a new
and delicious “Saturday morning Special”—a novel idea in
cartonned confectionery, “Fresh made,” each Friday, for exclusive
selling on Saturday mornings. Not only a “Special” confection,
“Fresh-made” each week, but a DIFFERENT assortment EVERY
SATURDAY morning at a special price. It is certain that you
will enjoy the matinee and the week-end more if you are
supported by a carton of these delightful, freshlv-made sweets.
They are sold in Cartons, CJoz., 1/3, and 130 z., 2/6.
Confectionery Depart-
ment, Ground Floor.
FARMERS, SYDNEY.
See Market Street
Window, Saturday
Sydney's Premier
Private Hotel
Cremorne,
On the Harbor Front.
Delightful 8 minutes’ Ferry Trip
from Circular Quay.
Electric Light and Lifts and all
conveniences usually associated with
First-class Hotels.
Steamers- every few minutes all day
and night.
Tariff, from 10/6 per day, and
from £B/3/-: per week.
VANITY FAIR
SILK GLOVES
'T'HE indomitable English spirit never shone
x brighter nor more valiantly than when doughty
JOHN BUNYAN, during his long imprisonment of
12 years, wrote that immortal allegory, “Pilgrim’s
Progress.” Therein the quaint picture of VANITY
FAIR was conceived, to be revived 200 years later
in vivid and modem colors by THACKERAY in
his charming story.
But THACKERAY did not dream that in the year
1919, in a land where in JOHN BUNYAN’S dav* the
Pilgrim Fathers were finding refuge, VANITY FAIR
would again become famous through the innocent
enchantment of the
GLOVE OF SILK
“VANITY FAIR” is the glove that the woman of
taste and refinement must naturally select. Every
pair carries the maker’s guarantee, and costs no
more than gloves sold without a guarantee.
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warner's
Rust Proof
Corsets
Lady Stanley is likely to fulfil her
promise to return to Australia, and that
rather sooner than she anticipated. It is
said she is hurrying back to Melbourne to
see for herself how her vice-regal husband
looks after his recent illness. She likes
Melbourne, and on arrival in London en-
thused over the joys of life here.
Hobart sassiety is quite down in the
mouth since it discovered that Lady Newde-
gate and daughter Susan are to travel to
England with son-in-law and the elder
daughter. Still, all is not gloom; the
vice-regal lady hopes to be back for the
Hobart season in January.
Mayoress Cabena lias been out of the
limelight through a severe chill contracted
during Jellicoe week. Before the attack
she hostessed a farewell tea-frivol for Frank
Williams, producer of the Peacock Ballet,
who is steaming off to try his luck in
England. 'Many of the guests were girl-
amateurs who had taken part in the charity
matinee. The event of the afternoon was
the presentation of a leather wallet con-
taining £lOO worth of bank notes to the
clever Australian. It was a useful parting
gift from organisers and performers at the
matinee.
Betty O’Hara’s wedding with Lieut.
Stodart, at Christ Church, South Ysrra, was
a khaki affair. The veteran medico, who
handed his youngest daughter over to the
groom, was the only man of the group in
civilian dress. Bride Betty wore white
georgette with a gold brocaded train and
antique lace. The bride’s little niece,
Margaret Rowan, held up the golden tail;
and Denise Montgomery, Fon Ellison and
Audrey Stodart bridesmaicled in pink satin
georgette topped with dark brown satin hats.
The story goes that two of the girls at
the Jellicoe Ball at Government House got
out of bed to attend the dance, and one of
them had to be sent away early—in an
ambulance
The wife of a handsome young doctor is
understood to be beyond reach of reconcilia-
tion, and tlie story of hubby’s philandering
with the pantomime syren will duly be told
in court. Discussions on the subject reveal
a strong Sex v. Sex feeling in Melbourne’s
naicest circles, sympathy with the alleged
culprit being rampant among tlie men, whilst
animosity against the actress is bitter among
the women. They want her to be “shown
up”—the cat! In the eyes ,of virtuous
matronhood an actress, who wears tights is
as unforgivable as a barmaid. The giddi-
nesses of man vary according to the grade
of “creature” in the case. Some are scan-
dalous. some are shameful, others are just
disgusting.
While staying with the Munro-Fergusons
the Jellicoes dodged the oppression of the
Melbourne Sabbath on Norman Bayles’s
tennis-court at Toorak. Some sparkling
company was provided for the active pair,
who pranced about on the asphalt like two-
year-olds. The little admiral is still a dandy
at the game, and seems to have borrowed
his services from the Marlborough’s guns.
Cavaliere Ferrando, who is accusing the
former Italian Consul, Cavaliere Eles, of
wilful damage to his liberty as an Italian
citizen, is coming back with the highest
order of Official Cavalier of the Crown of
Italy on, his chest. Senator Pearce, who is
accused in a writ of being Eles’s official
accomplice, will doubtless be overjoyed to
learn that Ferrando was specially recognised
by his king at the instance of Foreign
Minister Baron Sonnino.
By a vote that was only nine short of
unanimous, Dr. Crivelli has been elected
national corresponding member of the French
Academy of Medicine. This is the first
ballot since 1914, so the doctor is naturally
elated to find himself highly honored by
the revival.
During the absence overseas of the
A.W.N.L.’s president, Mrs. Fred Hughes,
Airs. Henry Crocker has been deputed by
the council to keep the flag waving as act-
ing-president. Mrs. Crocker, whose hus-
band is one of Melbourne’s most staid
family lawyers, has held one office or
another in the League for many years, and
can prepare a brew of afternoon-speech
with the best of them.
- “Plevna” Ryan makes the third medical
knight in Collins-street. James Barrett al-
ready has his new brass plate—not quite as
large as the page of a daily newspaper, but
it will serve. Maudsley’s is probably in the
hands of the brass-worker. But unless
there is strong pressure from feminine rela-
tives it is 100 to 1 that Charlie Ryan will
stick to his well-worn sign on the door ot
his old-fashioned chambers opposite Mel-
bourne Club.
Alan Newton, who was a coadjutor of
Dr. Bird’s in Spring-street before the war,
has become an F.R.C.S., London. He is
a son of H. H. Newton, Clerk of Parlia-
ments.
Memories of brilliant William Shiels,
meteor of Victorian politics, were recalled at
the week-end by the death of his widow.
She was a daughter of the late Robert-
son, of Struan House, Narracoorte (S. Aus.),
and had survived her husband 13i years.
Munro gave Shiels his first chance, includ-
ing him in his Ministry as Attorney-General
and Minister for Railways. When Munro
accepted the Agent-Generalship in 1592,
Shiels reconstructed the Government, and
was in power for an eventful 11 months. He
suspended Speight; put Graham Berry,
freshly returned from the Agency-General,
into his Ministry as Treasurer; appointed
Madden Chief Justice; prosecuted some
of the bank directors in the financial crisis
time; and delivered many fine orations, in-
cluding the panegyric on the death of Higin-
botham.
This is Langham’s
impression of Eileen
Starr, who won the
Melba Scholarship
at the Albert-street
Conservatorium the
other day. Eileen
entered the contest
without even telling
mamma, and nat-
urally caused a riot
when she caught the
judge’s ear. Her rLli
young soprano was
booked for early
publication in three
operas which Allan
Bindley is produ-
cing, but she has
decided to abandon
that project and
keep the voice in hiding for another two
years at least. The youngster is also a
competent performer on the violin and
piano, and can call on French, German and
Italian if her English gives out. She is
the eldest of a musical family, among whom
small-sister Elma already reveals a soprano
of wide range and great, feeling.
Naval Captain Hyde and his wife have
gone on to Sydney in the wake of Jellicoe.
The lady, who is noted for her beauty and
her silence, was a war-widow—the Hon.
Mrs. Trefusis. She changed her name to
Hyde about a year after her soldier husband
feil in the British trenches.
The late' J.'L. Purves’s youngest daughter,
Beatrice, has just come back by the Kaiser-
i-Hind. She has taken her second plunge
into matrimony, and is now the wife of
Dr. Warren Meade. Hubby has sailed with
the P. and O. Co., and served in the war.
Beatrice’s first husband, Lieut. Black, died
some two years ago.
Frankie Peterson is back again in Mel-
bourne pushing a Charlie Chaplin moustache
round the Block. He has been doing an
aide-de-camp and secretary job with the
administration at Rabaul for a year or so,
and looks none the worse for it.
The divorce of fascinating Madge Tither-
adge revives the rumor of her engagement to
a young Australian soldier. His brother
has returned to Melbourne as a major, and
his only sister lately married a judge’s
associate.
Zoe Angell Parry (Mrs. E. B. Newton),
now visiting Australia, comes from Shiraz,
in Persia. She began her career in remote
parts as a nurse attached to an Anglican
medical-mission, an idea prompted by her
Sunday-schooliug at St. George’s, under
then-Canon Godby ; and for living up to her
middle name by ministering to wounded Brit-
ish soldiers at Shiraz, Mrs. Newton lately
received a nursing decoration. She was an
early-day school-mate of another distin-
guished Australian girl, Kathy Prichard,
who won a Y.C. by marrying Hugo Thros-
sell.
Mrs. Harry Ricketson, who died last week
at the home of her sister, Mrs. Sheppard,
had just returned from a visit to a brother
in Java. She had hurried back to meet
her son, Captain Staniforth Ricketson, who
returns to Australia with his wife and child
this month.
Marjorie Lock, the Toorak girl who lost
her hand in a steam mangle when V:A.D.-ing
•some months ago, has been made a member
of the Returned Soldiers’ League at Shep-
parton, where the Lock family now live.
Harrison Owen, who drives a busy pen
down Flinders-street, has a habit of taking
his holidays in Sydney. He dropped in
there about 10 days ago, and within a few
hours jokingly warned a friend to keep his
distance, as he didn’t feel too well. That
was the beginning of a severe attack of ’flu
from which he is just recovering in a North
Sydney hospital. On Tuesday of this week
the ’phone answered: “Doctor has allowed
him to get up to-day for a little while.”
Another good Melbournite who had mixed
luck in Sydney was water-colorist M. J.
McNally. ‘ He had hardly shaken hands
with his friends visited the Australian
Arts Club show and received congratu-
lations on the sale of two poems in paint to
the National Gallery, when his temperature
started to climb. A medico advised a swift
retreat to Melbourne, where doctors are less
rushed, and Mac sorrowfully packed liis bag.
His helping of misery was bronchial pneu-
monia, and he isn’t likely to saunter down
Collins-street for another fortnight.
Two more of the Norman Birnies’ doctor-
sons are back from the war. Dr. Bob did
his bit at Salonika for four years, and Dr.
Alec, twice wounded, drew the Military
Cross. The third son, Dr. Norman, has a
Gallipoli record.
Home again, with a Royal Red Cross,
after four years’ nursing service, Airs. Jean
Duka, who has latterly been in charge of the
Mons Hospital at Hampstead (Eng.). Mrs.
Duka is a daughter of the Walter Helpmans,
of Warrnambool, and a niece of late Premier
John Murray. Brother'Gordon Helpman, an
air-lieut., came back by the same boat.
Unmindful of the warning of the time-
honored rliyme that Saturday is “no day at
all” for a wedding, Brawn, M.L.C., met Mrs.
F. Reddin at the altar at St. Peter’s, Bal-
larat, on June 14, and they decided to risk
the consequences.
Dorothy Whiting, youngest daughter of
solicitor Robert, who has been living in
London for some years, lias presented her
parents with a son-in-law, attached six
months ago. The bridegroom is said to be
in the Italian Embassy in London. His
name is Joseph Nathan, which doesn’t sound
a bit picturesque. The Whitings’ second
daughter. Claire, who married army captain
Walker, has just arrived from India to intro-
duce her babies. The eldest daughter, Mrs.
Hammond Chambers, convoying her ngval
husband and the little family, is expected
from England in a couple of months.
Minnie Madden gave a young people’s
two-step for her nieces the other evening
at the old Madden home, Travancore,
Flemington. There was a gay gathering,
and cousin Lesley drifted in to look on.
Miss Madden has mothered her brother
Henry's children since he became a widower.
The Walter and
Eliza Hall Institute
of Research in Path-
ology and Medicine,
Melbourne, thought
Australia quite able
to supply its first
director. On the
advice of Sir J. R.
Bradford, secretary
of the Royal Society.
London, and seconded
by several other
importants, including
the Chancellor of
Melbourne Uni.,
Major S. W. Patter-
son, R.A.M.C., was
considered the like-
liest man for the job.
Graduating M.B. in
1904 and M.D. three years later, he went
through the Melbourne and Children’s Hos-
pitals and then hurried to London, where lie
was' elected a Beit Memorial Research
Fellow and won the coveted .Schafer prize
as well as D.Sc. in physiology at the London
Uni. He was prying into the past of
carbohydrate metabolism and other animals
when war broke out, and he immediately
made lor the front with the R.A.M.C., sub-
sequently becoming assistant adviser in
pathology in the Rouen area. Major Pat-
terson is an old Scotch Collegian, and started
his medical course at Ormond. If dead-and-
gone Walter Hall can hear about the choice
he certainly will grunt his approval. No-
body was keener on giving the Australian a
chance for the big jobs than he —as you’ll
realise if you’ll go through the history of
Mt. Morgan.
Adelaide brings in her tray of gossip :
Patriotic workers are still busy on what the
Cheer-Up Society hopes will he its last appeal. A
Crockery Drive and a Gift Day did a lot to fill the
depleted storeroom and pantry shelves, and a few
hours’ brisk selling at a market on Saturday brought
in over £320.
Mabel Marryat’s good work for the Navy League
has won her that body’s special-service badge.
George Riddoch’s estate has been sworn at
£166,500.
Dr. T; G. Wilson is back, after four and a half
years’ service on every front except East Africa
and Mesopotamia. He was appointed staff-officer to
General Fetherston in November, 1917, and afterwards
went to America and visited the big training-camps
there. In his opinion British, French and Austra-
tralians proved themselves best' able to beai the
strain of modern fighting' conditions, and age
doesn’t count for as much as is generally supposed,
he thinks. One cheerful Billjim who passed through
his hands was 62 and had a grandson at the Front.
'Suburban parks and gardens are going to be a
popular form of war memorial. St. Peter’s is the
latest place to set about acquiring one.
The Tom Barr Smiths, who went to Sydney to
meet their soldier son and had to come back without
him through the hold-up of the Niagara’s passengers
in Maoriland, dined at Federal Government House
on their way through Melbourne, when Mrs. Barr
Smith was given her C.B.E.
Capt. E. W. A. Bagot, who was with the Austra-
lian Wireless Squadron in Mesopotamia for three
years and filled up any leisure he had by taking
photographs of the country, gave his impressions con-
cerning it at a meeting of business men the other
day. It made a very interesting talk.
A Repatriation Conference here was chiefly notable
for lively criticism of the South Aus. Soldiers’ Fund,
one motion “earnestly requesting” the Minister to
take over the fund and distribute it amongst local
repatriation committees. Another demanded that
returned soldiers be given an opportunity to apply
for the job of secretary. That’s been a sore point
for a long while.
The Jervis Bay College’s new head, Capt. Walters,
is chiefly South Aus. by descent and connection. His
mother was a daughter of old Capt. Hart, of Glan-
ville Hall, and his wife was a Miss Englehart, a
grand-daughter of the late George Glen, of Mayura
station, and a great-granddaughter of our first Bishop
Short.
Major Harry Thomson, just home, is naturally en-
thusiastic concerning the A.I.F. education scheme,
of which he was deputy-director. ' Lack of text-
books —or, especially on the agricultural side, of
text-books that suited Australian conditions —was one
of the chief difficulties to be overcome, and it was
met by detailing picked men to write handbooks.
Fifteen are now in circulation, some of them so
good that the Agents-General are distributing them
throughout England ‘and the Continent. By the be-
ginning of May 110,000 books had been issued and
four monthly editions of an education journal.
Frank Williams, designer of the Peacock Ballet,
will be introduced to the right people in London by
Melba.
Mrs. Crawford Vaughan is bound for the Thames.'
Her stay on the other side depends on her husband’s
plans.
Daisy Kennedy, our brilliant violinist, who has
had a great success in England, will return to
Australia in September, under the Tafts’ manage-
ment. Kubelik, after hearing her play, said she
was the most promising student he had met in eight
years’ travel. lie recommended her to get to
Europe, and soon the London Moknixg Post was
saying- that “of her sex she is without doubt the
greatest living violinist.”
Captain Gordon Richard Virgo, of Montreal,
Canada, was recently, married to Jessie Wilson, of
Ontario. Gordon is, a son of genial Jack Virgo,
originally of the Adelaide Y.M.C.A., later in Sydney,
now in London. The wedding took place at Buxton
(Eng.). Australians were not much in evidence, but
Americans were well to the fore, the bride being
given away by Captain F. Dey, of Chicago. Her
sister, Mrs. Armour, was matron of honor, and Cap-
tain Gordon Armour was best man.
Elsie Davies, the Australian soprano who
repatriated herself from Italy when the war
started, lias helped city-organist Price to
“discover” another Voice. The casket of
the jewel is Rosa Pinkerton, a 17-year-old
girl, of Clifton Hill. Last year Dr. Price
was willing to have the singer start her
public career in the Town Hall, but she
waited and let the accomplished Elsie Davies
exercise her vocal cords for another twelve
months. The bud gave full value to her audi-
ence when she made her pioneer appearance
at the last municipal sixpenn’orth; and the
usual happy prophecies are now being made.
Melbourne pianiste Emily Dyason (Mrs.
Ernest Scott) filled the Assembly Hall the
other night, “Humor in Music” was the
burden of her discourse, which she illus-
trated by themes dashed off on the piano.
Emily had a touch of the Blessed Damozel
about her. She wore wide gold bands on
her frock and had for a background a pulpit-
like throne and golden organ pipes. She
read her notes clearly, and each vowel made
its curtsey nicely in true ’Varsity manner.
She played works of Sinding, Arnold
Bax ; Schubert, Tschaikowsky and Percy
Grainger; but the gem of the collection was
Debussy’s “Goldfish,” a thing of iridescent
beauty. Louise Metters, who was to have
sung, had to be excused owing to the ’flu.
The audience was exclusive. Archie Strong
gleamed kindly through horn-rimmed glasses.
The Mitchell dame’s grey hair was in the
front row, and Mrs. Bob Power, the Irvine
dame, Mrs. Cass and Mrs. Orme Masson also
listened. ;
“What are things like in England now?”
a returned man was asked last week. “Well,”
said he, “you can judge from this—there’s a
notice up in lots of pawnbrokers’ shops:
‘No more fur coats taken.’ ”


11l
■
-V
•*r;
K
«k
V
X
m
0 ,
:
m
m
I
I
m
:
m
W
■
. ■
I
fc.
t- ■ . "
■
m
m
.
m
m
m
■
fe
a
i
m
■>
R 9
■
■
■
I
si
■ •: :
mm
' H
H
H
■
. 1
f&e/M yxm


CIMRLEj
HEIDSIECKS
Vintage 1906
(MR'
HE PLUS ULTRA
r
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
PERFECT GOWNING
Such is the craft of Shave,
Master Ladies' Tailors and
Dressmakers of Melbourne, that
they are able to fashion perfectly
the most elaborate gown
or the severest tailor -
suit without fittings
Visits by Shave to Sydney
and Adelaide each
half-year, and to
Brisbane yearly
SHAVE
LADIES' TAILORS,
DRESSMAKERS
Centreway , Melbourne
To show in Sydney
shortly, Kindly enquire
Hotel Carlton for
opening date of display.
m
LADIES, PLEASE!
We do not want you to pass this advertise-
ment by. as it concerns every one of you.
The Dove Hosiery Stores, recentlv com-
menced. is the onlv store selling single pairs
of Hosiery and Gloves at wholesale prices.
We defy competition. Those who can, visit
our showroom ; o"thers, mail us your require-
ments. We guarantee every satisfaction.
Here are a few values:—
HOSIERY.
“American Beauty.” Pure Silk Hose, full-
fashioned, seam, black or white, full-length
silk 13/6 pair.
“L 37” Heavy Pure Silk Hose, full-fashioned,
seam, will not ladder, sold in shops at 21/-
pair, black only. Our Price. 14/11 pail*.
Pure Silk, Ankle Hose, all Colors, very
- superior- - .. 7/6 pair.
“OUR” Ribbed Silk Ankle Hose, black or
white, equal to any 7/6 hose, wholesale
P’ice 3/6 pair.
Black or White onlv.
The Dove Hosiery Stores
(Take Lift to 4th Floor),
Australian Buildings, 49 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
EMBARGOES LIFTED AND NOT
LIFTED.
It is some seven months since the armis-
tice which practically ended the great war
was signed, but, owing to the low state of her
own supplies it was not until some months
later that the embargo on the export of
foodstuffs was raised by Great Britain. As
regards Cocoa and Chocolate this took place
about three months ago, and at the earliest
possible moment supplies of Bournville
Cocoa were despatched for Australia by its
makers, Cadbury Bros., Ltd. The many
patrons of this unique and deliciously-
flavored “Cocoa de Luxe” will be glad to
know that it is now to hand, and is on sale
or obtainable by all grocers throughout the
Commonwealth. Unhappily, in spite of the
best efforts of those interested in the resump-
tion of a trade so hardly hit by the war, the
embargo against the importation of Chocolate
and Confectionery into this country is still
maintained, and that is the sole reason why
Cadbury’s Chocolate as well as other popu-
lar brands of imported confectionery are
not now available. The obtaining of ship-
ping space does not now enter into the
question. —Advt.
A WOMAN’S
LETTER
DAVID
JONES
for
SMART
MILLINERY
This week, which was to have raced along
the social track, has come a mucker at the
influenza hurdle, so the Fleet functions, the
Municipal ball, the Parliamentary banquet
the Holmanesque reception and the series of
entertainments planned by the State David-
sons have all been postponed indefinitely.
There is great grief among Sassiety’s under-
fed, because the vice-regal parties were to
have cut away from the frugal war-time
sandwich.
Other held-over functions include the
Rose Balls. The committee people, poor
things, have packed away the decorations
and dancing-slippers till August or Sep-
tember. The Uni. Dramatics can’t go on
with “The Manoeuvres of Jane,” and the
Wentworth Free Kindergarteners have, re-
gretfully held over their fgte and dance.
Now what about the private dancing
parties that have a-: list of from 50 to 200
guests? Even though each guest, does cost
the hostess half-a-guinea or more,, that,
doesn’t include a guarantee from infection.
The Jellieoe arrival in Sydney was treated
as some deep and dark State secret. At
the landing the Admiral was surrounded by
the plenipotentanes and whisked off to State
Government House. There he and his small
wife w*ere given the glad hand ; after which
a few Boy Scouts were reviewed. Then a
rapid dash was made through the streets,
where much benighted public, which had
given up a day’s picnicking, strained its eyes
for a glimpse of what to it represented the
British Navy; an unobtrusive mounting of
the Town Hall steps, where a small group
of aldermen and gold braid received them;
and Viscount and Lady Jellieoe disappeared
into the privacy of some dungeon of the
municipal building. The lady wore a grey
costume, white fox furs and a wide-brimmed
grey hat, and in the foreground carried the
bouquet of pink carnations and sweet pea
that mayoress. Richards had handed to her.
Last week 500 officers and men from the
Australia marched through Sydney. The
Telegraph was filled with gloom:
Apathy on the part of business and ;other establish-
ments was in keeping with the stolidity that charac-
terised the people who watched the procession pass.
The S. M. Herald took the roseate view:-
The men's countenances inspired the thousands of
onlookers with pride and admiration. As the boys
in blue swung past they were greeted by cheer upon
cheer. Everybody was eager to take full, advantage
of the opportunity of demonstrating,the affection and
thanns of the nation to the. men,of Australia’s Navyc
for their difficult and splendidly performed part in
achieving the victory of the Allied cause. Flags.
fluttered gaily in the„ sunshine..
But the Herald camera, which is incapable
alike of being cheered by liquor or depressed
by liver, gave the impartial view; and it
was a striking endorsement of the rival
sheet’s accuracy—half a dozen small chil-
dren, an old lady, one or two men, and an
aged person in a sulky. That was the sum-
total of the admiring thousands -identified
by the machine.
Mayor Richards and his lady gave a
theatre party in honor of the return of the
Australia. Commodore Dumaresq, Flag-
Lieutenant Lyon, and Owen Cox smiled from
one box; W. G. Layton and his daughter
from another; various officers occupied a
third.
There is a horrible rumor abroad that
the Government or the Trades Hall or the
Navy Board or someone in authority is
going to stop naval officers using warships
for the purpose of entertaining their friends.
The argument is that the ships belong to
the taxpayers, and that there is no valid
reason why the officers should use them and
have the services of the crew for their
private parties. Or, anyhow, that there is
no more reason why they should have such
a privilege than the men. And if all hands
start entertaining, the vessels, when in port,
will become more like suburban town halls
than ships of war. The ease for the reten-
tion of the officers’ entertainment system
rests on ancient custom.
The power of the germ! The other Satur-
day afternoon a radiant bride presented her-
self at an east-suburban church to be
wqdded. The ceremony over, the priest sym-
pathetically remarked that she had a nasty
cough. “It’s nothing, Father —I’ve just got
over the ’flu.” At eight o’clock that night
he had to I’etirc to the presbytery, unwell.
On Tuesday the bride was dead and on Wed-
nesday tile priest was fighting for his life.
There was a peculiar sadness over the
Requ.em Mass for Mrs. “Andy” Madden,
w:ho was pretty Nell Riley. The girl-friends
who assembled at St. Mary’s to bid the long
farewell ro their old schoolclium had less
than a year ago viewed her beautiful trous-
seau, made almost entirely with her own
hands. Tier husband and three small step-
children and her two sisters —Dr. Kenna’s
wife and Freeman’s journalist Maude
Riley—are all very ill with the germ to
which Mrs. Madden succumbed.
Captain Duncan, A.D.C., is playing a lone
hand at Admiralty House; the rest of the
G.-G.’s staff are down with ’flu. Captain
Bede Clifford has been a serious ease.
Another sadness is the death of the young
wife of Dr. Charles E. Wassell, of .Hunter’s
Hill. The doctor, member of a well-known
Queensland family, left in 1914 as captain in
No. 1 Field Ambulance and returned a year
ago with a lieut.-culonelcy ar.d a D.S.O. ‘ He
was married almost immediately to Dorothy
Frances Burt, of Queensland, and had taken
up practice at Hunter’s Hill only about six
weeks ago. After three weeks he contracted
pneumonic influenza, and is just convales-
cent. His wife, less fortunate, died after
an illness of eight days.
Only 40 of the 120 guests invited by
Mayoress Ricnards to say “Amen” to her
appreciation of Mrs. Alfred Lee were able to
be 1 - present in the Town Hall reception
rooms. Mrs. Lee has mothered the Town
Hall Red Cross Sewing Guild since the be-
ginning of the war, and the supervisors pre-
sented her with a handsome diamond brooch
as a memento of the love and respect she
has won from her large circle of workers..
The brooch, which represents a streak of
lightning, was designed by an Australian
girl and made in Sydney. The reception
rooms are very eosv since their redecoration,
and, masses of pink and red roses added a
warmth of color. The Mayoress was in
dull green frocking and a close-fitting hat
into which two or three ostriches had woven
the best of their crop.
< George Innes, who died on Saturday of
pneumonic influenza, had been a popular
figure in Sydney since he got back from
Cambridge over 25 years ago. Had lie
stuck to the Bar there is little doubt he
would have done as well as his brother,
the K.C. He had a strong personality and
was brilliantly clever in many directions.
However, he was tempted with ‘ a Parlia-
mentary draughtsmanship early in his
career, and lie kept it till the end. He was
the eldest son of the Judge, and was remark-
ably like him in. appearance and ways.
Four years ago he'married Thelma McQuade,
of Potts Point. His mother, only sister
and two brothers —soldiers-—are abroad.
St. Luke’s, the new Darlinghurst hospital,
should * fill an urgent want. Sydney was
short of hospitals before the;- war began or
the present form of influenza was heard of
in lay circles. At present a patient s ;,has to
be almost at death’s door, and the possessor
of a “pull” of some sort as well, to get into
one of the sacred places. Existence in a
public hospital is “rough,” to put it mildly.
It has to be. There isn’t enough money
available to make it otherwise. Yet none
but the very rich can view the fees charged
at the average private hospital with indif-
ference. The rooms are clean and attrac-
tive, the nursing is usually good, and the
medical attendance is, of course, the best
possible; but the food is almost uniformly
dreadful. There must be a lot of money in
running a private hospital at six guineas
per week per patient, judged by the class
and quantity of the sustenance provided
St. Luke’s intends to cater for those who can
pay something for comfort and privacy,
though not the prices required at present by
the crack; private hospitals. It will be a
further blessing inasmuch as,Tt must relieve
the pressure • on places like 1 - Prince Alfred’s
and the Sydney.
Mrs. Guy Davenport, who got back this
week, arrived in England at the end of her
husband’s last leave. A few days after-
wards he went back to France and, was
killed almost at once. He had won an M.C.
in the early days, before the decorations
began to be handed out with the rations. He
went away originally as, a lieutenant in the
sth F. A. Brigade.
Captain Sloman, the small, frail-looking
S.G.S. headmaster of pre-war days, got back
this week. Married, the holder of a respon-
s:ble position, and not so young as most, he
had every excuse to stay at home. How-
ever, he insisted on joining up—he did his
time in the Rifle Brigade—and one of his
rewards will be the added regard of his boys.
They wouldn’t have thought ill of him for
staying, but they will think a lot more of
him for going.
Edgar Goodchild is petitioning for a
divorce from pretty Maud Fane, the co-ro.
being Robert Peel, “of Sydney.” The only
connection the young man has ever had
with Sydney was represented by a brief resi-
dence at the Australia ; he is now and has
been for some months in a remote part of
North. Queensland. The tall, good-looking
youth arrived from England a couple of
years ago aboard the Niagara, Melba, James
Alison and other notabilities being fellow-
passengers. He was understood at the tune
to bo a Eife Guardsman on leave, after a
strenuous period of war service, and a mem-
ber of the famous family which invented the
policeman. Others urged that he belonged to
the equally well-known Oxford-street (Lon-
don) bootmaking family. The mystery has
never been cleared up.
Madge Titheradge’s divorce has been ex-
pected any time during the past seven years
or more. She was discussing it in a per-
fectly impartial and academic spirit when
she was in Australia with the Waller com-
pany. Charles Quartermaine, her tall and
handsome young husband, was the best of
friends with her. but their tempers, or tem-
peraments, or something, were incompat-
ible. Like so many English actors, he did
good work in the war.
Hugh Ward has taken the forlorn Naval
House in hand, and is organising a collec-
tion for the nourishment of the child. The
vice-regal Davidsons, draped around with
flowers of our Australian knighthood—Owen
Cox and Russell French —and supported by
Naval-men Dumaresq and Glossop, listened
attentively whilst the greatest showman in
Australia outlined the scheme of attack. Of
course it includes a matinde, at which Jelli-
coe, Munro-Ferguson and the State David-
son, with their ladies, have promised to
occupy seats; so, as Mr. Ward naively re-
marked, “the affair should be a great suc-
cess.” The thin, dark Dumaresq had a few
words to say, but so riveted the attention of
the audience by his persistent penultimate
accentuation of “mercantile” that they didn’t
follow the sense of his speech. Glossop floun-
deredHn his attempt to catch the Dumaresq
pronunciation, but Governor Davidson stuck
manfully to the good, old-fashioned method
of throwing the accent on the last syllable.
The Late Dr. CHARLES McCARTIIY,
putting the finishing touches on his
Napoleon bust.
On a starlit night last week Hilary Lums-
daine married her soldier in St. James’s
All shimmering silkiness and tulle veiling,
she gave her promise to Lieut. George Wal-
ter Cansdell* Hirst, son of the Walter Hirsts,
who live in one of the piles of masonry that
overshadow Ivirribilli Point. She is the bud
of the E. B. Lumsdaines, of Vaueluse, and
was bridesmaided by Dot Wynn-Roberts in
soft satin that looked like a pale primrose
in early Spring. The Waratah rooms har-
bored the wedding guests.
St. Mark’s, Darling Point, flung its sacred
shadow over the wedding of Marjorie, one
of the pretty daughters of the Commander
Brownlows, and Corporal Evan Williams,
whose mother is Mrs. Guy Boucher, of Eliza-
beth Bay. There were two padres: the
Rev. Howard Lea and the Rev. Harold
Crotty. The soft satin wedding-gown car-
ried the newest thing in panniers of Duchess
lace, and trailed a silver brocade train;
and the bride carried an early-Victorian posy
of white blooms smiling primly over a lace
frill. Mauve charmeuse with silver lace and
fringe embellishments enfolded the brides-
maids, Florence Brownlow and Marcia Wil-
liams. The bridegroom, his best man (W.
H. Ward) and his groomsman (Colin
Walker) wore khaki cut on the A.I.F. pat-
tern. Mrs. Brownlow contrasted crimson
blooms against a background of black-net
Locking, while Mrs. Guy Boucher was black-
fulled and gold-topped. The Naval Depot at
Push cutter's Bay echoed to the wedding fes-
tivities.
The lad’ l7 we know as Mrs. Theo Marks
is one of the most radiantly-happy beings
in Rangoon, Burma. She is Mrs. Cle
Preston Colvin now; for she married
young man whose first name reminds au,
tralia of its most-advertised tome at
pore on January 30. He’s the second so
of Sir John Sneyd Colvin, C. 5.1., and ne Phew
of Sir Auckland Colvin, ex-Gov. of tnt
North-West Provinces of India. The iau\,
writing this way, says there’s not the tiniest
cloud on her horizon, though she admits to
an occasional little ache for the Darbo
front.
Furlough House, the Narrabeen holiday-
camp for the wives and children of soldiers,
received its official baptism on Saturday
afternoon. The oils of soothing speech
were poured upon it bv the G.-G., who
seemed to regard it as a special bit ot
Fuller’s earth, whereas the idea originated
in the brain of the energetic Mrs. Cooper-
Day, though the George Fuller lady has
first-lieutenanted the scheme right from the
start. The female half of the newest title
looked very handsome as she passed Lady
Helen a handful of violets. She was
clothed in purple and fine beaver, a whole
family of the little animal going to the mak-
ing of the coat cape about the lady’s shoul-
ders, While a natural ostrich feather
wreathed her headgear. The vice-regals were
supported by the aldermanic Richardses,
the slim Mayoress carrying a handsome silk
braided navy suit —fairy godfathers Brash
Macarthur and Thomas Peters, and Town-
hall Layton. The local inhabitants were
there in force, and had sent their handsome
cheques before them. V.A.D.’s and boy
scouts everywhere, and a glossy black and
white goat curvetting against the seascape.
Mr. Sam McCauley, Comptroller-General
of Prisons, has just returned from a six
months’ haunting of the portals of eternity.
Or, in the simpler language of Long Bay,
“the decent old bloke has been bally sick.
A friend rang him up to proffer congratula-
tions. -‘Yes,” said Sam, “the Almighty
decided to treat me as a first offender and
give me another chance.”
Mrs. Dick Dangar has gone back to Neots-
field, leaving her attractive daughter, who
has been having a cheery time at. all the
dances, behind her. Mrs. Dangar is about
the best woman-judge of a horse in the State.
She was a Dowling, a daughter of the old-
time Union Club’s coaching man, and
started to learn the art of horsemastership
when she began to speak. Her friend Mrs.
Forsyth, who was drowned while fishing in
M.L. shortly before the war, was her one
rival in this respect.
Mrs. Wright and her daughters will ac-
company the Archbishop to England when
he goes for the Lambeth Conference. Mar-
jory, the eldest of the three daughters, made
her debut at the last Court held at Buck-
ingham Palace before the war. Nora will
probably make her first official bow whilst
they are in London. Isabel is still a flapper.
One of Sydney’s new brides, Mrs. George
Everett, is the proud possessor of a Paquin
model, the gift of a titled grand-aunt in
a Scottish castle. It -is in ivory satin de soie
patterned with embossed velvet of amber
and black ; the skirt, narrow at the hem, is
draped upwards and finished at the corsage
with a large chou of biscuit-colored ostrich
feather centred with a golden rose. The
bodice is of fine gold tissue; and a wonderful
limerick lace scarf and a tortoiseshell fan
with three black ostrich tips complete the
toilette.
Mrs. Emmie Ellis, once of Sydney, but
for long past of the French Riviera, sends
news of the beautiful Frances Saville, who
in her youth and inexperience married Max
Rown. Since the days of that indiscretion
in Sydney, Madame Saville, with her fine
voice and still finer art, has travelled far.
For a number of ’’ears she was a star of the
Imperial Opera House, Vienna, where her
wonderful hair and superb manner enhanced
her beauty of face and figure. Great wealth
came her way. She had a castle in Wart-
berg. about an hour’s journey from Vienna,
a place at Biskra in Algiers, and a pic-
turesque villa, Miramar, overlooking Monte
Carlo. When war broke out Australia’s old
favorite accepted the alien’s part and put
up with the privations Vienna showered
upon her. When Mrs. Ellis wrote, her
friend was in Switzerland undergoing a
month’s supervision before being allowed to
return to Monte Carlo, whose sun and soft
breezes have, no doubt, by now freed her
from the heavy attack of bronchitis brought'
on by the coal famine in Vienna. Her son,
Willie Saville, was killed in a motor-car
accident some time since in San Francisco.
There is talk of a Peace Day presentation
for Government House—a clock that isn’t
always slow. It is too bad that the vice-
regal party can’t ever see the beginning of
anything. It is even said that they missed
the first race right through the last two
meetings.
Did you know that Stella Power is the
niece of Josephine O’Brien, who in her day
was Melbourne’s favorite and very handsome
concert singer?


/G>
J^old-
CiQ'apefk
c ascs —...
Heavy 9ct gold Ciqi -
a retie Case,concave,
jo hold single row .
extra thin, In case....
£27>'lo~o
|l|te illushWibri depicts one of the
mCompariyS many distinctive designs
in Sob[CfcfarvtfeCases suitable (op C)
presentation punposes.
' (Tiio Company will gladly forward se-
lections on approval ai irieir own
risk, and a copy of'their illustrated cat
-alooue upon request
5% discount allowed
on all cash purchases.
13 HUNTER ST
SYD N E Y
298 COLIJNS ST
MELBOURNE..
Jeiueffer>s
ire-118 QUEEN ST
BRISBANE...
AND AT
LON DO N-.
TAKE PHOTOS OF
THE WARSHIPS
with one of HARRINGTONS' Cameras
The battleships Australia and New Zealand, and - the other warships
now in Australian waters, are grand targets for your gun—the camera.
Have a shot at them.
And in a few short weeks the Peace Celebrations! Photos of these
events, taken by yourself, will keep them fresh in your memory for many
years to come.
Call —let us show you how easy it is to use a camera. We teach
photography free to every purchaser of a camera.
We Have a Large Range of
The World’s Best Makes
from which to make your selection, including
The V.P. ANSCO No. 2,
the little Vest Pocket Camera with the capacity for
doing big things.
Takes Photos 2*4 x 3M inches.
Fitted with Anastigmat Lens in Focussing Mount,
enabling you to focus direct on your subject and
Shutter, paving exposures from t/lOth to 1 /200th of
a second.
With F 7.5 Modico Anastigmat Lens £5/5/*
With FG.3 Anseo Anastigmat Lens £7/10/-
E N S I GNS —BROWNIES—KODAKS
In All Sizes at All Prices.
Harringtons’ Laboratories
Specialise in Metallurgical and Assay Work.
Every branch of Metallurgical Analysis and Refinement. Ore Testing
and Assay Work is done at Harringtons’ Laboratories. Jewellers’.
Dentists’ and other Metalworkers’ Sweeps, Residues and other Waste Pro-
ducts treated in the most expeditious and efficient manner, every grain of
metal that is of value being extracted.
We Collect Material for Treatment in City or Suburbs, free
of charge.
A note or ’phone message to any of our branches will receive
prompt attention.
Photographic and Cinematographic Merchants ,
Metallurgists, Analysts and Assayers,
I JS
386 George Street, Sydney.
93-95 Queen Street, Brisbane.
144 Queen Street, Auckland.
266 Collins Street, Melbourne.
43 Bundle Street, Adelaide.
42 Willis Street, Wellington, N.'Z.
r*-
..
m
ssislS^J
*?SS
Small size, 7 heads, Nos. 2 to 8.
heads
Large
Nos
ta
15
size
A new idea—a boon to repair shops.
Oxy-Acetylene Blowpipes with
Interchangeable Heads . . . . .
THESE blowpipes fill a great want in repaid shops,
garages and wherever a wide variety of welding work
must be handled. Hitherto it was necessary to have
a separate blowpipe for different work, which tied up
money and restricted operations. The new “Universal”
Blowpipes with Interchangeable Heads are just as effi-
cient as our Standard “Universal” Blowpipe, and haye the
wonderful convenience of changeable heads. The cost of
these outfits is much less than the cost of separate blow-
pipes for covering an equal range of work.
Made in two sizes : Small, with 7 heads, Nos. 2 to 8 ; Large, with 3 head , v os. 10, 12, 15.
GET PRICES AND PARTICULARS FROM
Pioneers of" the lndustry
in .Australia.
FOY ST ILYL >LA.IdSt • OSC-S-W
o
Agents:—MELBOURNE: Fyvie & Stewart, 362 Collins Street. ADELAIDE: Alex. Tngram and
Co., Wyatt Street. BRISBANE: Evans, Deakin & Co., 121 Eagle Street. PERTH: George
Wills & Co. Limited, Murrav Street. TASMANIA: Harrison Bros. & Co. Ltd., 20 Patterson
Street. Launceston. FIJI: Brown & Joske, Suva.


A Business Man
things in terms of “service,”
and expects from his wearing
apparel, service in the high-
est degree. In PELACO
Collars he is never disap-
pointed. The fact that their
style sacrifices nothing to
their quality and service-
ability accounts for the wide
popularity of PELACO
Collars. Sold by reliable
Mercers everywhere, as are
also PELACO Shirts and
Pyjamas.
COLLARS
Made in
A ustralia
“THERE’S MONEY IN THE PEN.”
L-vV
&
The abovej
is the title
of our book-
let, which
tells about
the possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
by HARRY J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
difference between
learning to COPY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains, in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
penny stamps
to-day for a
copy of this
booklet—
“THEßE’S
MONEY
IN
THE
PEN.”
4
The HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing
t 3O Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY.
Ester brook’s Pens.
is so good but there may be a better.
The thousands of folk who like our Relief Pen might
do well to write us for a sample of our No. 908.
Worth a trial, and costs you nothing.
ESTERBROOK, Box 98 G.P.0., Sydney.
FOR
ARCHITECTS; ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
NX
M
mAOE
Perfection
busk: rubber.
Wanted.
WANTED —First-class Wine Steward.
Best Credentials. If possible, Service
experience. ' Apply in person to Mess Secre-
tary, Wardtroom Officers’ Mess, H.M.S. New
Zealand.
Public Notice.
SOLDIERS’ PI A H lES.
THE Mitchell Library is desirous of pur-
chasing for the State Archives original
diaries of Australian Soldiers taking part
in the Great War. Good prices will be
paid for good material. Address Mitchell
Library, Macquarie Street, Sydney.
For the Trustees.
W. H. IFOULD,
Principal Librarian and Secretary.
'tipsier#
[ C PECIALIZED
I methods in design-
I in& and knitting pro-
| duce in Luxite Hosiery
j a closely woven tex-
| ture of remarkable
f durability and re-
f splendent beauty un-
surpassed for the
money by any other
hosiery in the world.
Don’t accept substitutes and think
you have “Luxite.” Insist upon
the genuine. If your dealer is
unable to supply you, write us.
Walter Cathro Pty.Ltd.
York Street, SYDNEY.
MARTIN’S PILLS
are sold by all chemists and stores. Ladies
recommend them. Be sure you get the
genuine with the signature:
MARTIN, Chemist, Southampton, England
r ABBEY
SHOES!
The identification mark of the superior
quality of Abbey Shoes is appended to
stylish dressers. The lushest standard of
material is used, and the fit is a sure
guide to satisfaction.
The boot illustrated is made in choice Tan
Willow Calf. A smart, “made-to-order”
style.
PRICE 30/- and 42/-
Also in Box Calf with dull Calf Legs.
PRICE 40/-
Made in half and full sizes, and in three
fittings—-narrow, medium and wide.
Postage Extra.
WRITE FOR CATALOG.
A BBE Y,
313 George Street,
Between C1.P.0 . and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
Tke Universal Dustless
Grinding: Mills for All Glasses
of Material.
Write Us on Your Grinding
Propositions and we will
quote you for a Suitable
Machine.
Separator Screens for Super-
phosphates, Chemicals, Ores,
etc.
We also Manufacture Packing
Machines for Filling Packets
or Tins.
Keg and Barrel Elevators.
Platform Elevators for Boxes
and Packages.
Gravity Runways or Con-
veyors—no power required to
drive.
Steel and Cast-iron
Conveyors.
Tile Universal Dustless
Pulveriser, Rigid and
Swing-hammer Types,
Size No. 10, with
Shaker Feed.
Flour Mill Machinery.
Mixing Machinery.
Dressing Machinery.
We can Quote you lor a Com-
plete Self-raising Flour
Plant.
Friction Hoists.
Apron and Belt Conveyors.
Combined Grinding and
Dressing Plants.
Boiler Feed Power Pumps.
Suction Sack Cleaners.
Bottle-filling Machines.
Concrete- and Mortar-mixing
Machines.
Adjustable Feeders.
Factory Experts and Con-
sulting Engineers.
Schumacher Mill Furnishing Works Pty. Ltd.,
PORT MELBOURNE, VICTORIA. [4
HORLICK
f FOR ALL AGES
Horlick’s Malted Milk
is more beneficial than
tea, coffee or cocoa,
and is the best food
for invalids, dyspep-
tics, and those who
are below par.
HE
** r4 *r3~»*** ,fl^
«*oji
MaiTEO t** 1 * .
No Shortage of Supplies. Ample Stocks throughout Australia.
m
m
m
The “PLUM”
RAZOR.
This noted Razor is no new invention.
Thousands of “Plum” Razors are sold annu-
ally, retaining their position of supremacy
through sheer consistency of merit. Try the
“Plum,” and you’ll stick to it.
PRICE 10/6 —POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of
charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle,
10/6.
Pair in Double Case. 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
This line makes a handsome present.
“Plum” Strops, 7/6 and 10/6 each.
“Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/-
All the above Post Free.
Send for our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED OVER 30 YEARS.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Con Amore: The reef is worked 0ut....
Rochester: There's scarcely a thing you write that
isn’t worth more polishing than you give it. “Mum”
will pass.... Scratch: Too much sacrifice of sense
to get the rhymes. ... Mirindale: Poor doggerel....
J.G Ft: Nothing’ wrong, except that it is all so
obvious. .. .Tom L: Commonplace. .. .J.F.F.: We’ve
combed the insects 0pt.... Walter M.: Couldn’t
answer that. You might get some traces by adver-
tising, but it’s a long shot, and would cost money. ..
Ciaran: Sorry, no space for anything further on the
subject. .. .Felix: A good one; 'but we’ve had it....
Chip Chase: The man who crowds his typewritten
lines so close together that a sub-editor’s pen can’t
squeeze in between simply begs to be sent to the
w.p.b D. Sight: That’s nothing. Six months
ago in New York we saw Houdini do much
the same thing after being suspended 20ft.
above the stage.... Brett: “Home Again” has some
good lines, but they’re not compact. Have another
try. .. . F.G.E.: (1) The rhyme scheme of “Sea Birds’'
is off the rails. You could sing it to the tune of
“Sweet Marie,” and Heaven knows the suffering earth
wants to forget that. (2) “Dawn” and “The Scent
of a Rose” are mere banalities... .Ethel M.: “The
Full Moon” sways out of the orbit, but it’s a happy
theme and worth building 0n... .E.M.G.: Don’t annoy
the “Plague Demon”- —he has done harm enough
already.... G.L.8.: Boarding-house sketch fails. Only
two writers that The Bulletin knows have made a
success of the subject.... Dingo: Don’t want the
“magazine rights” of it. (P.S.: Don’t think any-
body else wi11.)... .Neil S.: “Mourner” out
of tune. Try the brighter side... .R.G.: The
“Sled” runs prettily enough, but is too
slight to carry any load of thought or fancy....
8.N.A.: Take it away. In ’flu-time some
sanitation is necessary. „ .B.B.: Your bald and
toothless poem, mumbling good advice to the young,
reads as if it had been composed by a very young-
man F.W.S.: It’s a pathetic camp-fire ballad with-
out the music... .J. 8., Jun.: Your poet’s license is
hereby cancelled... ’. L.V.: Slight theme. Only the most
skilful treatment could make it worth the space....
W.G.: A torpid story, and you don’t give the .reader
a fair chance. When you write “faddy” it looks like
“handy.” Fall in love with a typiste... .L.J.11.: The
poem sounds as if someone had suddenly opened a
foundry in a quiet neighborhood. Two crashes:
Reconstruction ! Reconstruction !
Is the note that sounds aloud.,:
Yes, repeat it: Reconstruction!
But with head in hand and bowed.
For the note is so persistent,
With its piercing, shrieking blast,
And its call becomes insistent
For we know time travels fast.
Reconstruction! Do we hear it?
Are we deaf? Why don’t we act?
Reconstruction! Yes! we hear it
And we fear it! That’s a fact.
....Chip: Noble and elevating sentiments suitable
for reading aloud to the young T.R. : Why .send
in a summer poem at this time of year? Do us
something with firelight and chest-protectors. Also,
you might let us have the eucalyptus in bottles....
L.P.: Gentle, faded verse rejected with reverence....
A.1.F.: It’s in the honorable-mention class....
Coorima: Your intentions are good and the fire of
youth is in you ; but that doesn't help a dewy poem
that is trying to hobble along on three wooden legs.
... .Keynote: No fresh thought there. .. .Tripe: Good
try. . . .W.M.H.: Would like to help you ; but the
wind blows through the homely edifice of verse....
N.W.: Haven’t got much use for the young poet who
stands orating on the bridge at midnight with a
pint of poison in his right hand... .E.P.McC.: Not
for us, thanks... .Arthur R.: You will not leave the
twins on this doorstep... .P.F.D.: Let’s all sing the
last verse together:—
► Now lovely Nellie, fare thee well,
We may not meet no more,
For the eye hope great happiness
The future has in store.
May all good spirits guard thee,
And keep thee free from care,
Is the heartfelt wish of him
That sings the praise of Nellie Maher.
. ...C.W.: Young person yearning vaguely at a
window on a starry night... .L.S.: You don’t get
anywhere by asking “What is Life?” and then saying
“Damn . J.A.W.: The swagman who split his,
head on a spittoon has been carried out... .S.A.K.:
It’s the sort of verse that isn’t the sort of verse.
The “Ever Upward” note is wearisome.... Paul Q.:
Not Suitable... .W.J.M.: It creaks and it wobbles
and sometimes it falls down with a crash. Fit a new
engine to the poem... .G.E.H.: We know. You wrote
it with an axe and three plugs of dynamite.. . . Jean
A.: Be sad if you like, but never dull.. . .Booboro-
wie: “Please find enclosed poem, which is my own
make-up.” Very well: —
A SAD ROMANCE.
A beautiful girl
Full of agitation.
Over her shoulders a curl
As she stood on the station.
Puff, puff; here’s the train,
’ Pit-a-pat goes her heart,
Oh what a strain,
But not as bad as when they did part.
Full of love for him she rushes
But with face so full of strife,
He despises her pretty blushes.
Says he, “Allow me to introduce you to
my wife.”
....Clancy: We are tired of the bard who sits and
gazes into the fire while some more energetic member
of the family works and pays for the fuel. The one
thing that the dreamer never sees in the fire is a
j0b.... J.H.E.: Cannot buy your splendid grief; so
stop bargaining behind your sad, black hat....
W.P.Y.: That humble bard is now an Australian in-
stitution... .N.W.: One blast:—
A bugle-call is ringing,
I am lying on the plain.
Time you got up. The war’s 0ver....L.: We’ve
cabled to Mr. Wilson begging him to make it one
of the conditions of peace that your poem be not
printed in any language.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
D.K.: You are only picking up the rudiments now.
....Exclusive: Both heads have been crushed by the
artist... .G.W.: Drawing gets it behind the ear....
T.L.: Grow up and draw better... .A.J.M.: The
rooster looks all right, but his conversation isn’t
brilliant Leon: No gaiety in them A.W. :
Send the blacks back to their camp... .J.M.: Rejected
with groans... .11.J.R.: Gag too late—drawing
too early... .E.E.M.: They are not alluring legs, and
the idea might have originated from an uninspired
draper R.S.: You can’t draw much, and it is
time someone told you so.... Jack II.: Plenty of
time for you. Study and try again.


Shipping-
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
,vith Wireless Telegraphy. Cabtnes-ae-
l.uxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding _ sailing
■'lutes, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., LW.,
Tel.—City 4246, 2,4, 6 Spring Street,
Sydney to England
via
the Allied Route,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
- NEXT SAILING, JULY 9,
VENTURA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw,
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Telephone: City 2282. 44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Hanking, Public Companies. &c.
THS
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors; The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman); WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ; Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP,
K.C.M.G. ; Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Hoad Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH AVALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE AVORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the < Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital * . . .. ~ 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. . . .. 247,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since ISOS specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edvvd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon, G. W. Gray, M.L.C.; James Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq. ; AV, 11. Hart, Esq.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - - - BRISBANE.
Hranclies —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £145,000
Directors: MARK SHELDON, Esq., Chairman;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LLD. ; FRANK N.
YARAVOOD, Esq. ; HERBERT R. LYSAGIIT,
Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon. F.
JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Chief Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney;
LONDON (37 Threadneedie Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And. at 139 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the AA r orld.
Every Description of Banking Business 'Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital .. .. .. 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,345,702
GRANTS DRAFTS
Britain and Ireland, and
oth
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
er places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts all other usual Banking business.
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
MACDONALD,
HAMILTON 8 CO.
Managing Agents for
Australasian ! United Steam Navigation CJV
Central Queensland Meat Export Co. Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates Ltd.
Blackheath Collieries Limited.
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Shipping:, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
R.M.S. MAKURA, JULY.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, AUGUST.
The most beautiful Scenery in the World—the Canadian Rockies—is on the All-Red Route.
The Prairies, the Great Lakes, Chicago, Niagara Palis and New York can all be visited.
Through bookings to all Canadian, United States and European points.
Stop-overs on the Railways Arranged.
CALL OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS OF THIS ROUTE.
PASSENGERS CAN CHANGE AT HONOLULU INTO A DIRECT STEAMER FOR
SAN FRANCISCO.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Palls, etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
ISLAND TOURS.
Now is the Time to Visit the PACIFIC ISLANDS.
DELIGHTFUL TOURS to
NORFOLK ISLAND and NEW HEBRIDES.
SOLOMON ISLANDS.
PAPUA and RABAUL.
Trips of Four, Five and Seven Weeks’ Duration.
BURNS, PHILP 8 CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability -
Directors:
£3,912,440
£3,100,000
£3,912,440
£10,924,880
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
F. B. S. Falkiner, Esq., M.H.R.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Auditors :S. E. Eaidley, Esq.; A. G. Milson, Esq.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
General Manager: Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
340 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
IBank"
SYDNEY.
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking: Business
mthe Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain),
also London (2), and A.I.F. Camps in England.
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and SAVINGS BANK AGENCIES at 2776 Post Offices
throughout Australia, Papua, New Britain, Solomon Islands,
and The Pacific.
Snstralia
Commonwealth
HEAD OFFICE
JAMES KELL,
DENISON MILLER,
Deputy Governor
1919
Governor
SPECIAL FACILITIES FOR SAVING
are offered by this Bank—absolute security, liberal interest, and
the convenience of a Branch or Agency in almost every locality.
Deposits
Withdrawals
Interest
accepted from one shilling upwards.
payable on demand at the Branch where the account is
kept.
allowed at 3*4 per cent, per annum on every £ up to
£5OO.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales,
The STATE Saving's Institution.
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
| THE BANK that PAYS St % INTEREST on SAVINGS
Shttmlnr
/\ \\ L j/{. M J%?
mmm.
Osaka ShosenKaisha
(O.S.K. Mercantile Steamship Co. Ltd.).
Direct Monthly Cargo Service
Manila, Hong Kong, Japan and
the East. Transhipment cargo
accepted for all Eastern ports,
Pacific Coast ports and Europe,
transhipping at Japan.
NANKING MARU, sailing middle July.
For particulars apply to
American Trading Company
of Australia,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
40 RING STREET, SYDNEY.
And at Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide.
Sydney Inter-State
Sub-Committee.
INTER-STATE SAILINGS SUSPENDED
OWING TO STRIKE.
Huddart Parker Llm
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND. —Regular sail-
ings between Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand
ports and vice versa; particulars to be obtained on
application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA.—From Sydney to
Hobart and vice versa every three weeks. Between
Melbourne and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; George Street, Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
1 Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
nYEED," - RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Munvillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 11s.; second-class rail and steerage on
steamer, £ 4 ss.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE. 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
Favorite Mail Route to Japan, with connections
at Japan to
EUROPE AND AMERICA.
Tours can be arranged to China, Japan, Korea,
by this Line.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN.
Via Brisbane, Townsville, Thursday
Island, Zamboanga, Manila, Hongkong,
Nagasaki, Kobe, and Yokohama.
Passengers must obtain from the Quarantine
Authorities permits to leave New South Wales at least
three days before the steamer’s departure.
. SPECIAL NOTICE. —All Passengers proceeding to
JAPAN must have their Passports vised by the Con-
sul-General for Japan in accordance with the regula-
tions of the Japanese Government
Full particulars of Sailing Dates, Passage Money,
Freights, etc., apply
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LTD.,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
HOTEL
METRO POLE,
... SYDNEY.
1 Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 12/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 4/- and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all Particulars posted on application
to The Manager
IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT.
RICHARD HORNSBYI SONS LIMITED,
Engineers, GRANTHAM AND STOCK-
PORT, ENG., MELBOURNE, SYDNEY
AND BRISBANE.
HAVING AMALGAMATED WITH
RUSTON, PROCTOR U COY. LIMITED,
Engineers, LINCOLN, Eng.,
the new firm will in future be known as
Ruston 8 Hornsby Limited
655-667 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE
(Head Office for Australasia),
And at SYDNEY AND BRISBANE.


n
L_ ! 11
Sherw/n ■ Williams
—the name that stands
for QUALITY in paints .
That name—Sherwin-Williams—on a
paint or varnish can is a definite assur-
ance of three important factors:—Perfection
of ingredients used, scientific exactness of
formulae, and vast experience behind the pro-
duction. For more than 50 years the Sherwin=
Williams Company has made paints and varnishes
for every purpose. To-day the “Cover the earth” trade-
mark is famous in every quarter of the globe. Ask the
nearest Sherwin-Williams Agents for color cards of
Sherwin-Willia
Paint
PREPARED.
THE SHERWIN-WILLIAMS CO. (AUSTRALIA) LTD.
Head Office: 63 Pitt St, ~ydr.ey. Agents everywhere.
COVER
“HE
EARTH
Just
till
IS
;!w
M
jgi
m
Your Winter Bath Comfort,
DON’T go through another winter without a Bath Heater. Have
absolute Bath Comfort —and have it at the most economical
cost by installing DANK S’ CHIP BATH HEATER for
Country and City Homes.
DANKS’ CHIP BATH HEATER
is the last word in rapid heating at infinitesimal cost of fuel. It is
constructed on scientific principles, whereby the heat is properly and
quickly applied with the least, possible waste.
It is not necessary to have gas in the house. The only fuel
needed is a few chips, or small pieces of deal or old paper, and you
have abundance of hot water in a moment for the bath or for other
household purposes/ Think what a wonderful convenience this
would be to you.
Now is the time to install this splendid Heater —inquire to-day.
Price only £2/17/6.
Hot Shower Attachment—£l/5/- extra.
£iimiiiiniiiiiiiiiii*
ClX*
immiuitmi'n
JOHN |
&SON \
324 Pitt Street (near Liverpool Street), Sydney,
and 391 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
T/s.
KM
•£4
that are reliable and accurate.
We carry the finest range in Australia
l ‘A marvel at the price."
I>l. Steven’s Little Scout Single-
shot Rifle, 22 calibre. ISin.. round steel
barrel: open rear and knife-edged front sights.
Weight, about 2Mb
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/3; other States, 2/2.)
226
“Splendid for all small game.'"
1531. Marlin Repeating Rifle, 1897 Model,
24in. octagon or round barrel, 22 calibre rim fire,
magazine takes 25 short, 20 long, or ]S long rifle •cartridges, case-
hardened receivers, fitted with sliding rear sights; >
weight- S*lb. takedown ... .Freight paid,
WE REPAIR ALL KINDS of GUNS and RIFLES.
o',;-.".
"Simple and extra strong in construction.
Winchester Single-shot Rifle, 1904 Model for 22
non- I ,', 1 r i m lf flre cartridges, 21in. heavy round steel barrel,
plain tnggei, bolt action, ladder rear sight: length of rifle
oyer all . 87*in ; bead front sight, with patent alloyed tip!
which will not tarnish; weight, about 41b J _ . 1
(Postage—N.S.W., 2/-; other States, 3/8.) */•
“Suitable for small game and target shootiriff”
85. Stevens’ Visible Loading Repeating
Rifle, 22 calibre; magazine holds 15 short. 13
long or 11 long' rifle cartridges, mixed or separate; 20in. round barrel;
length over all, 35in.; weight 411 b.; slide action, blade I
front and screwrear sights Freight paid<
Owing to market fluctuations prices here quoted are subject to change
without notice.
“_,l perfect rabliter's rifle”
837. Remington Hammerless Repeating Rifle,
Model 12A, 22 calibre, solid breech, side ejector, straight
srip, 21in. round barrel, handles 15 short, 12 long or 11 long rifle cartridges
adjustable rear and open front sights; weight 411 b............
Q*/-
“Shoots with guaranteed accuracy
813 Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906
Model 16-sl>ot. 20in. round barrel, plain trigger,
straight grip ladder rear sights, slide action, handles -2
short? long, or long rifle cartridges; weight, aboutt s*lb.£. 95/,
9
“EVER READY” PATENT
CIGARETTE MAKER
Simple and durable. Nothing to get out of order.
Full instructions with each one. PRICE Bd.
POST FREE
w*
“A suitable weapon for the boy.”
82. Stevens’ Marksman Itifle, 22 calibre, R.F.,
round barrel. 20in., chambered for long rifle cart-
ridges, case-hardened frame, oiled walnut stock, open
front and rear sights; weight, 41b. ...
(Postage —N.S.W., 1/9 ; other States, S/2.)
, m
One of the hardest-hitting 22 cal. rifles on the market.
839. Remington Automatic Hammer less
Rifle, Model lfiA, 22 calibre, take-down action, length of barrel 22
inches. Magazine holds 15 cartridges. Weight s|lb.
Freight paid,
£7
814. Winchester Repeating Rifles, 1892
Model, 25/20-, 32-, 38-, 44-calibre, central fire,
full or half magazine, 24in. barrel; weight, about 71b.
With Round Carrel Freight paid,
With Octagon Barrel Freight paid,
816. Winchester Repeating Carbines, 1892 Model,
25/20-, 32-, 38- or 44-calibres, central fire, full or half magazines,
20in. round barrel, weight about s£lb Freight paid,
Illustrated Firearms and Sports List Post Free to any address
£5/15/-
£6
£5/10/-
1C
AUSTRALIA'S GREATEST
SPORTS OUTFITTERS'
AND TOBACCONISTS
City Sports Deoot
99 Kind St, also at
liewcastk l Brisbane


Rexona the Best
Remedy for Piles.
Mrs.
LEMP
(from a
photo.)
“For some time internal
bleeding piles caused me much
suffering,” writes 'Mrs. W.
hemp, 164 Yarra Street, Inver-
cargill. N.Z. “The irritation
was unbearable. I could not
lie, walk or sit on account of
the pain and uncomfortable
feeling. I tried many remedies,
all with no success. Nothing
did me any good. Rexona
Ointment was recommended to
me, and the first two or three
applications of this splendid
balm acted like magic. After
using Rexona Ointment for only
a short time, I was freed from
my terrible affliction and com-
pletely cured. Rexona is well
called “The Rapid Healer.”
Don’t Suffer with Piles.
Rexona Brings Prompt
Many women suffer with Piles who, do not like to consult a doctor. They are
even diffident about inquiring for a remedy for their trouble, and life becomes a
burden of suffering and ill-health. To these Rexona the Rapid Healing Ointment
comes as a boon. It is so simple to use and so effective, so genuinely healing and
soothing that discomfort quickly vanishes when it is applied. It is perfectly safe
to use, because of its purity and careful preparation. Sufferers from this painful
trouble should keep Rexona always at hand, and get quick relief. Rexona the
Rapid r Healer, sold only in triangular pots at 1/6 and 3/-
o
o
0
THE RAPID HEALER
BEFORE THE MIRROR
By “JEANNETTE.”
These are, undoubtedly, days of exceptional nervous strain for one and
all of us. Anxiety, with its beauty-destroying influence, is casting its shadow
over the lives of many of us women, and while perhaps a few —the more
sioical among us—can avoid worrying over rost and prospective events, we
may all, with a little care and forethought, succeed in preventing the results
of worry from being noticeable in our appearance. To these fortunate
few this little chat, will, however, be as interesting and instructive as to
those who stand in real need of. help in toilet matters, and may be the
nieans of bringing to their notice some hitherto unknown method of retain-
ing or regaining that beauty of face and figure which is the birthright of ’
every woman. Some of the ingredients mentioned below are, at present, not
generally known to the public, but any good chemist will usually be found to
have a small quantity in stock.
Some Hints about the Hair.—An Excellent
Shampoo —Few women realise liow all-impor-
tant a really good shampoo is if the hair is
to be kept in perfect condition. To shampoo
the hair properly, sb>ke it down, comb it out,
then dip the fingers into a little pure olive or
alinond oil. and thoroughly massage the
sealp. Then mix a teaspoonful of stallax
granules in a cup of warm water. Fill a basin
with warm water, into which the ends of the
hair can fall, and shampoo the stallax mix-
ture into the roots in the usual way. Rinse,
and dry by fanning, or in the open air, if the
weather permits. Should the hair be excep-
tionally greasy, the oil massage of the scalp
should be omitted. Stallax can be bought at
any chemist’s in quarter-pound sealed pack-
ages. It keeps indefinitely, and one package
is sufficient for 25 or 30 shampoos.
A Tonic for Thin or Falling Haii;. —When the
hair falls unduly, or has become thin and im-
poverished, a tonic should be applied every
night for six or eight weeks. To make a
simple and inexpensive but most eflicacious
lotion, at home, take a quarter of a pint of
bay rum and add to it one ounce of boranium.
Shake thoroughly, and leave for 30 minutes:
then strain, and add sufficient water to make
half a pint. Every night massage the scalp
for 10 minutes, going over the entire head,
then dab the mixture into the roots with a
soft sponge. Regular brushing for a few
minutes every morning will also help to im-
prove the condition of the liair.
A Greasy Skin arid Blackheads.—A greasy,
oily skin, with blackheads and enlarged
pores,, is a sore trial, and many a girl goes
through life with her appearance entirely'
spoiled with these unsightly blemishes, which
may now be so quickly and effectively removed
with but little trouble. To remove blackheads
arid the dull, dirty look of the skin which
accompanies them, dissolve one stymol tablet
in a glass of hot water. Allow the efferves-
cence to subside, then dip a small soft sponge
into the liquid and bathe the face. Leave on
the skin for a few minutes, then dry with a
towel, and the blackheads will come right off.
For a greasy skin, bathe the face three times
a week with stymol and spray with cold water
every morning, using a vulcanite throat spray.
The Secret ol' a Good Complexion.—The secret
of a good complexion is so simple that, were
it only more widely known, there would be
no such thing as a rough, blotchy skin.
Nature has decreed that the outer cuticle,
when it shrivels and dies, shall be removed;
hut so many women fail to realise this. To
remove, by absorption, the dead outer skin,
and preserve the complexion in all its pris-
tine beauty, mercolized wax is recommended,
ordinary creams and lotions being quite in-
effectual for this purpose. Smear the wax
over the face and neck, rub it gently into the
skin, and leave for the night. In the morning
wash it off, using a good soap, such as
Pilenta, and all the dead skin will be removed
with the wax. Then apply a lotion to re-
move any trace of greasiness and brace up
the skin, making it firm and white. The lotion
can be made at home quite easily, by mixing
one ounce of cleminite in four tablespoonfuls
of hot water. Bottle, and, when cool, apply
to the face with a soft sponge, or the tips of
the fingers, allowing it to dry on the skin.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
C.B.—Clynol berries will reduce your weight.
They are harmless, and no alteration need be
made in your diet. They have also one great
advantage over other flesh-reducers: they re-
duce so gradually that there is no fear of
loose, flabby skin and wrinkles.
ZULA.—No, I am afraid I cannot tell you now
to prevent yourself from biting your nails.
You must exercise your will power*
CONSTANCE.—To remove the yellowness
from your skin, get a tin of mercolized wax
and apply it every night, rubbing it well into
the skin. Leave,it on till moiming; then wash
it off with warm water and a good soap. (2)
To give a color to-ttee cheeks. a little col-
liandum and-rub- some on a leather. Apply this
to the cheeks. It gives a perfectly natural-
looking flush to- the face, and is quite unde-
tectable. (3) To remove the blackheads, take
a stymol tablrtmnd-dissolve it in warm -water.
When the effervescence has subsided mop the
lotion over the face, allow to remain on for
a few minutes, then wipe off. and the black-
heads will disappear.
GEORGIE.—I am not surprised to hear that
the electrolysis treatments were not success-
ful. They seldom are. Get an ounce of plie-
minol and a tube of tekko paste. Use them in
conjunction, and you will soon be rid of the
troublesome superfluous hair.
SHEILA.—To restore your hair to its original
color, get two ounces of tammalite and mix it
with three ounces of bay rum. Apply to the
hair every night or morning. In a .couple of
weeks there will be no sign of the greyness.
Tammalite is not a dye, but a natural re-
storer.
ELSIE.—To remove the roughness from your
skin,, use a lotion made by mixing clemtnite
with warm water. Allow the lotion to cool,
then bottle, and use after washing the face
every morning. il
The Song of the Sun.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Y’OU who creep on the earth I heat,
Live and breathe to a moment’s beat,
Grasping and holding the air a day.
Hear the call of my lightning lay I
By the floods I slake,
By the weeds I wake,
By the burning fire
Of my least desire,
Merrily blow the pipes of Play!
I call to you all from my home on high,
Ploughman and poet and lover shy !
Run out to my feast
From the west, the east!
Fill, fill your souls with my living wine,
Flowing and glowing—
A magic bestowing 1
In root and vein and blossom and vine!
Run out, run out
With a pagan shout,
For the lord, the lord of the earth, am I
And the master of sea and sky!
1 loose the light for the laughing Spring.
I warm the wind that a man may sing.
By the candid power of my airy breath
I scatter the myriad hosts of death;
And the planet swings
To the golden wings
I sweep with joy in my realms above,
While full and sweet
My pulses beat
To the rhythm of Life and Love.
Run out, my children ! Pipe and play!
I knew you all ere the birth of Day,
Ere the morning mothered a melody
And danced her way on a blue-noon sea.
I lent my flame
Till the clay became
A breathing miracle green with grass.
And the waters lay like a path of glass
For the troops of the Dawn to pass.
You are mine, all mine, little motes of earth,
That revel and sing to my brave, white mirth.
With bird and blossom and bud and bee,
Shining leaf and contented tree,
In the fragrant hours
When I wield my powers,
Run out to the flow of the flowers !
For I am the lord, the lord of all
And the king of the great and small:
The ruler of Time
In every clime—
Run out to my happy call!
Run out and sing
Till your senses sting
V\ ith the youth and vigor my glances fling;
And, cleansed in the bliss of my holy light,
Be filled with immortal sight!
N.B.W.
ZORA CROSS.
The House on Fire.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
faint and distant tolling of the
.1 outer-suburban fire-bell summoning
the hose-cart to its duty roused us
from the evening paper. We hurried out,
expecting to see at most a distant rosy glow
in the sky; but, as the door swung open, the
whip-like cracking of flames was heard, and,
just across the belt of trees, we saw the
“devouring monster” of the evening papers
feeding brightly on the finest house in the
suburb. I jumped for my boots and got into
them at record speed. Then I fled down the
centre of the road at a speed that amazed
myself. I spurned the ground a few times
with my exhilarated feet and went over a
gentle rise like an express train —or, at
least, I felt like an express-train. I nearly
burst with pride and astonishment when I
arrived at the gate of the brightly illumin-
ated garden and found that, for the first
time in my life, I was the very first person
on the scene. Even the fire-brigade had not
yet arrived. It reminded me of a brilliantly-
lit theatre, with the stage set, but no players
or audience.
As I gazed, the owners of the home poured
out of the front door carrying an assortment
of the most useless things. I rushed for-
ward, took a bowl from some weeping girl
and placed it carefully outside the fence.
What she said (she thought I was trying to
steal it) was drowned by the roar of the
flames and the muffled thunder of timbers
falling. Another volunteer helper who could
not have been more than two yards behind
me as I fled to the conflagration, picked the
thing from the asphalt where I had placed
it and put it inside on the lawn. Then he
fell over it ivith both feet, smashing it very
completely. The girl reproached him bitterly
and was taken next door by a weeping rela-
tive.
A loud shouting and scuffling in the road
momentarily switched my attention off the
enthralling flames, which were roaring their
disrespect of property and rapidly eating
the shingle roof. The fire-brigade had arrived
in full uniform. The lady of the lighted
house b« r |t from her family’s clutches,
shook her fist at the old-maidish horse, and
shrieked. Late again as usual!” I won-
dered how many fires she had per week and
,p,h v she didn t sack the old-maidish horse.
Lie stoutest fireman then fell backwards off
he hose-cart into the middle of the road
a lar 2e puff of dust went up to the
stars. If it was intended as a mark of
sympathy or respect it failed, for the ady
only called the attention of all hands V the
niddent and said it just showed them what
she had to put up with.
All this time the house was burning a<s
-t wanted to get done before the “waterwas
turned on. The stout fireman rushed hithe?
and thither with short lengths of thin can-
vas hose, look’ng for the plug. Presents a
small boy showed him where it was. and he
plunged the pipe m. screwed it home. tSrr!j
on the water and rushed up the dr-ve His
helmet looked splendid and his boots left
nothing to be detnred. But there was no
pressure and a, tired silver streak o* water
feebly pawed the hot side of the building.
A chorus of indignant shouts stung his pro-
fessional pride und he roared for more fluid.
The second fireman (the one that wasn’t
holding the old-maidish horse) ran out and
did something to the hydrant and the silver
water-wand reached up through and almost
damped the enthusiasm of the fire. There
were loud cheers from the hundreds who had
gathered to enjoy themselves. The afflicted
folk of the family, grouped heroically by a
clump of geraniums, made no demonstration.
Perhaps they really wanted the fire to be
put out.
I tramped across the lawn which didn’t
belong to me, and on which I had no right
to be, towards the rightful owners. Usually
I respect other people’s privacy: but the
rule seems to be that, when a man’s house
is burning, complete strangers are entitled
to surge into his garden. There were scores
of people there who had never heard of
him before. I had never heard of him before.
But I was as ready as the next stranger to
trample down his garden. I had some wild
idea that, at such a time, he wanted people
to surge and trample and watch him closely
to see how he took it. Everybody wanted
to see how he took it. They peered into his
face, and those who couldn’t get bound
looked closely at the back of his head I
resolved that, if ever I had a fire of my own.
I would not be present at it.. I am sure I
haven’t the fire manner.
The fire burned gaily and unseen things
fell and broke and splintered as if property
were of no value at all. A bookcase in a
too-brightly lighted room on the second floor
was waiting for the approaching flames,
when one of the chimneys leaned out like
the Blessed Damozel and poured itself
through the foolish shingle roof, taking the
bookcase with it into the inferno of the
lower floor. This was the signal for various
brave spirits in the crowd to get out some
of the heavy furniture before all was lost.
They rushed at the front of the house where
the danger wasn’t overwhelming and went
in through the French windows, to be
immediately involved with a piano. There
were. bursts of laughter and kharp cries of
caution from the more serous minded —
then a splintering of light wood. The sharp
end of the awful instrument heaved into
view, wobbled a moment on the verandah-
edge, and then, with a vicious sweep of its
hind-legs, somersaulted heavily into the
tennis-court, fifteen feet below. The stricken
lady of the house shrieked to the
stars at the jangling crash the thing
made as it strewed its innards on the grass
and rolled over dead. The fireman in the
road shot away from the old-maidish horse
to restrain the furniture-wreckers; but they
had hopelessly crinoled a settee before he
managed to drag them off. The maddened
owner shouted “Leave things alone, can’t
you!” and a horse-voiced rose-grower near-
by barked “Leave things alone!” But the
furniture-wreckers, now commanded bv the
fireman, started in afresh to deal with the
contents on orthodox lines. They were very
busy with a s : deb"ard when the'roof started
to smk. Howls from those in the garden
brought them out with a rush, and a torrent
of bpams and Pies roared down and made a
desolate hole of the room.
I think it was at this moment that a thin,
worried man came to rest beside the staring
house-father, and, folding liis arms in the
Napoleonic manner, remarked, “Ah. fire’s a
good servant but a bad master!” It caught
on splendidly. Almost everybody said it
within the next five minutes. Small girls
with spectacles kept on saying it to which-
ever parent had brought them to the fire to
broaden their minds. Some people said it
with one eye on the owner of the blazing
house. They half-hoped that he would hear
them saying it, and gratefully single them
out for some special confidence, it was a
great honor to be singled out by the star and
told exactly what all the family were doing
when Cissy happened to walk into the scul-
lery and see the laundry alight. A couple
of specially favored old gentlemen very
nearly came to blows over it. And the fire
blazed along splendidly. It had got over Its
first start of annoyance at being sprinkled
with the tat fireman’s hose.
When the angry whirring of the motor
fire-engine was heard, a sort of gloom was
cast over the proceedings. People felt in-
stinctively that the motor-fireman would
pump np excessive amount of water on the
entertainment that had once been a house,
and really put it out. Something serious
might have happened to it if the water
su~"ly had been dangerous; but there was
no water to speak of. and the fire and the
accomnlished amateurs who had arrived with
the old-maidish hor Se had had too long a
start. The bmise by now was alight every-
where and burning comfortnblv. The motor-
engine threw what water it could get at it.
but that did not inconvenience it
for a long time. But. at Hst. under the in-
fluence of the new hoses, the big house and
garden became dimmer, and some people
the chrom'c leave-earlies—sbu-nred. moral-
ised a little and went home. The tragic face
of the ruin-owner lost its glow, became a
bLck mask and merged rap'dlv with the
night and his black clothes unt ; ! he was
nothing but a pair of white tennis boats and
a low. hopeless voice. The roar of the fire
died to a humming and hiss'ng. and the
snlasbing of the hoses on walls and galvan-
lsed-iron made a mournful rattfing. Pre-
sently there were cnlv streaks and tufts of
fire here and there under patches of tiles
and in protected angles. Tbe shadowy local
fij’ftnPTi dNsrnstPd r*rofpssi(srials find bv
tin's til-no withdraw® fnmhlnd in thn grow-
mg darkness and wrangled about what to
do next, as the last incompetent devils m>ht
argue.m a deserted bet] Tb e hoses—now
throwing mute respectable stro frP s 0 p w .ater
—raked the roof and tore eff shingles and
U" 't. woodwork ill a lunatic manner. The
oebris snlasbed and rattled forlornly
amongst the tangle of dark nuns. '
I became aware that something— something
very large and late—-was Pushing and per-
suading the suburbanites to get out o f V<e
garden they b"d over-run fo" hours without
arv 1-i'V entered They were iwtn-
ratlv mdwnnut: but fbv bad to go—tber
were np the tone,] noirnenmn As
be has shent twen tv-five «mmr- mile* to
overawe’ h’s per form a nw,
at all was remarkable. But, being
(Continued on next page.)


•)
W Redness
t Soreness
and
Painful
Cracks
Heale<y
SgBKSwS
m
w,
: Sv: t !*-V^
Hcl
«
!i:;-
5^:.;;::•;;: y.jy
•:S : 5 : ;?
355
>«5
* i* * •
%
%
%
“RUB 1
IT
IN.”
ZAM-BUK SOOTHES AND HEALS.
WHAT irritation arises from raw, chapped hands!
If the skin is at all sensitive one suffers more or
less in this way all the year round, but with the
damp, cold and frost of winter the hands and wrists
become a positive torture. First the skin loses its pleasant
softness, then there is a disagreeable roughness and redness,
followed by cracking and bleeding, particularly in the region of the knuckles
and wrists. This distressing condition is made worse by drying the hands or
face carelessly after washing on a raw, cold day. Neglecting chaps, or any
cold sores, may lead to painful swelling and inflammation. There is a danger
of grit and dirt getting into the cracks of the skin and setting up positive torture.
Zam-Buk is the scientific balm which; in addition to allaying the inflam-
mation and pain and healing chaps, cold-sores and roughness, also imparts a
new and remarkable healthiness to the skin itself. Smear Zam-Buk on at
night, and wear an old pair of gloves till morning. The effect of the application
of Zam-Buk is delightfully cooling and soothing. Its healing ingredients,
which have set it on a pinnacle apart from ordinary ointments and lotions
polluted by animal fats and minerals, instantly soak into and thoroughly
permeate the tissues of the skin, softening and healing in a perfectly natural
way—the unique Zam-Buk way.
EVERY HOME NEEDS' ZAM-BUR.
In winter Zam-Buk is unsur=
passed for Chapped Hands,
Chafings, Chilblains, Stiff Neck,
Sprains, Stiffness, Rheumatism,
Chest Pains, Sore Throat and
other aches and pains. Zam>Buk
is also excellent for Cuts, Burns,
Bruises, Sores, Ulcers, Bad Legs
and Ankles, Abscesses, Children’s
Scalp Troubles, Poisoned Wounds,
, Boils, Rashes, Barber’s Rash, Raw
Chins, Inflamed Patches and other
skin troubles. Obtainable from all
Chemists and Stores at 1/6 and 3/6 per
pot, or post free from C. E. Fulford
(Aust.) Ltd., 39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
ASH FOR AND INSIST
ON ZAMmBUK.
REFUSE ALL SUBSTiTUTES.
CHAPPED &
CRACKED
HANDS
HEALED.
TVTRS. JANE CHULESEY, 41 Lower Campbell Street, Surry Hills, Sydney,
IVX writes: “1 used to have great difficulty in carrying on my work
during the winter months owing to the skin on my hands and arms becom-
ing cracked and chapped. The wind-chafe after immersion in water caused
them to smart and get exceedingly rough. The finger-joints used to crack
into raw and painful sores. Having been recommended to try Zam-Buk, I
applied some of the balm, getting it absorbed well into the pores, and found
it most soothing. It moistened the skin, took away all the stinging and
smarting and healed the sore places.”
The SOOTHING HEALEir
there, and the fire being already out,
there was nothing to do but put out
the people. This he gradually did in his
best manner, and then stood on guard at the
gate with his large feet in a stream of water.
The crowd jarnbed sullenly around the gate.
I picked out the most foolish-looking youth
I could see (I knew he hadn’t been there at
the start), and said, nodding at the police-
man’s back, “That’s the policeman who saved
the little girl from the top storey.”
“Goo on!” he said, and passed the news
on to his mate. The lie went through the
crowd within a minute. People raised their
voices excitedly and there was a gratifying
stir. Someone raised a wavering cheer,
which gradually swelled into an impressive
roar. “Hooray !” they screamed. “Hooray !
Hooray !”
The policeman started angrily. “Stop
that! You mustn’t make that noise here!”
He seemed to be under the impression that
they were cheering the fire, or else that they
were getting back on him.
“Goo’ boy!” roared the original ass.
“That’ll do!” growled the policeman.
■ “ You're all right!” roared the second ass.
“Hooray!” roared the crowd in his face,
and so prevented him from taking steps in
the first fool’s direction. “Not so much
noise there!” he requested; and, being tame
suburbanites, they put it down to his modesty
and were quiet as sheep.
Inside the garden the hoses battered vigor-
ously at already sodden timbers and rattled
on the shingles in search of smouldering
liatches. Ranging higher it found an un-
broken attic window and burst it cheerfully.
The glass splinters jingled musically on the
path.
“There’s a, good winder gone!” snapped
the tireless she-agitator.
The old suburbanite roused himself and
roared, “Be more careful, can’t you !”
Out of the dark came the fireman’s retort:
“Ah-h, go an’ get yer head read !”
The fat fireman appeared suddenly at the
fence. “Hey! carn’t yer-see th’ blanky fire’s
out! Yer don’t want to stan’ ’osin’ ’ere orl
night!”
“Well, turn th’ dam’ worter off, carn’t
.ver!” replied the wetter of ruins. The fat
fireman retired cursing to the middle of the
road and the splash and rattle of water pre-
sently ceased. There was silence. The
high, cool, silver stars shone tenderly on the
dripping, blackened ruin of what had lately
been a popular display of fireworks, and, a
little before that, a nicely-furnished home in an
untrampled garden. The ineffectual firemen
messed about mysteriously, gathering up
their wet material and loading it on the dis-
astrously late hose-cart drawn by the old-
maidish horse. A portion of the crowd
shivered, shuffled and moved away—shadows
going home.
The old suburbanite spotted the white
boots of the ruined house-owner and fever-
ishly fumbled with the gate. I followed him
in because I knew exactly what he was
going to say and wanted to see how it
would go down. As he approached his prey
he made a preliminary buzz like an old-
fashioned clock when it is going to strike.
“That you, Singer? Well, it’s just as they
say—fire’s a good servant but a”
Two lean hands reached out of the dark-
ness and the white boots rose from the
ground like startled doves as the two neigh-
bors went down.
“What’s that?” asked the policeman, as I
went to pass out.
“Two dogs fighting,” I answered. “They’ll
ruin the garden if they’re left there !”
He picked up a lump of sun-baked clay
and hurled it at the tangled heap under the
rose-bush. A shrill howl of pain stabbed
the welkin. “Git outer that, yer brutes!”
:he growled. “Goo on! Git out!”
He was preparing to do it again when I
left.
KODAK.
A Papuan Old Person.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
URUPI, village constable of Mauviavi,
was wily and old and wicked. His
person was wide and tubby, and his
eyes -were wide and round. His hair curled
closely—all good Mauviavians have hair
that stands up and out like a mop. And, as
Mr. Patrol-officer Brown said, the brute
was just bursting with importance. His age
being beyond the remembrance of old Tau-
hiney, the village gossip, and those curls so
unconventional, he, despite his high estate
as V.C., was looked at somewhat askance by
the village belles. Indeed, they whispered
to each other that he was fat; and, between
you and me, Kiwai, Iviwais being the
despised Black Jews of West Papua.
Then Bogu, his old wife, died (this sense-
less white Gubbiment allowed V.C.’s only
one wife and called it example) because
someone many miles away, up the Orokola
country, had put a pourri-pourri on, her.
Then Urupi, Y.C., deigned to cast a favor-
able eye on Namour-dea, daughter to Cornea,
who was the only soul in Mauviavi that
“stood up” to him. Once Cornea had called
him old fool to his face. Ridiculous little
Dea, instead of being overwhelmed by the
honor, wept, and said she wouldn’t.
Garea, her chosen man, was away at a
Ghost village. (You know this Ghost-village
business: how a man to gain admission must
be unmarried ; how he must walk three days
through a forest to the west, eating only
wild ginger-root and drinking running
waters; how at sunset of the third day he
climbs a high . tree and lies down to sleep
in its fork ; how his spirit then ascends to
the gate of- the great village, which is
guarded by an old, old man with a long
white beard, who prods at the visitor with
a spear; how, should he evade the prod,
which he can only do if his life has been
clean, he glides in amongst the ghosts and
converses with them; if lie does not evade
it his dead body stays in the tree, where it
remains from three to six weeks, when his
spirit re-enters the body, which then de-
scends from the tree, bathes in every run-
ning stream it comes to, and returns to its
home. His friends can tell by a curious
dead smell where he has been. And he is
outcast for three moons. But I told you all
this before.) Garea had gone a-ghogting;
and wouldn’t be back for three weeks. And
Urupi threatened to gaol him on his return
for breaking the Ordinance which is called
“Spreading lying reports.” Hadn’t he said
that Urupi was pig-fat? Also that he was
Kiwai ?
Cornea was suspected of sorcery—was she
not related to Quaia, the kava-kava (mad)
one who crept out at the full of the moon
to the snake-woman who uncoiled in a cave
at low tide? Urupi threatened to expose her
or send her to Manu-manu gaol unless she
gave him Dea.
That he, Urupi, was accused of usury
(wasn’t his the finest fleet of pigs in Papua?)
and malice aforethought, and perverting the
course of justice to his own ends, etcetera
and etcetera, made no matter. None would
dare to bear witness against him; and if
they did they would not be believed. On one
immense day had he not shaken hands with
the great Sir William Macgregor? Also, had
he not been V.C. of Mauviavi since none
knew when ?
Yes, it was all so; which was why
Namour-dea set her little wits to work.
Instead of avoiding Urupi she began to
happen his way. And one gold-shimmered
sunset, the eve of Garea’s home-coming, she
sat in the centre of a great silence under the
shadow of a rose-scarlet D’Alberti. Clad
she was in seven new ramis that twirled
about her legs like ballet skirts, all her
mother’s red sapi-sapi ear-rings upon her,
and several strings of beads about her neck
and her little honey-colored arms. There she
sat in her soft young sweetness, and sillied
her Urupi’s ears. Her mother, she simpered,
did not really desire him for a son. Indeed
she almost opposed him. Maybe he hadn’t
proffered a payment for her? (Alas —alack,
too—the heathen-in-his-blindness is a myth
of the missionary. They buy and sell each
other, and any and every white man.)
Garea, for whom, of course, she cared no-
thing, was offering twenty pounds worth of
trade and armshells. If Urupi really cared
(she paused to gaze pensively at a royal-
blue butterfly big as a man’s both hands
fluttering over a rouge flambillimo) —if he
really wanted her they must elope. Urupi
could come to the sago-swamp landing-place
to-morrow night as the red star rose above
the palm-patch. She would be there.
Urupi deputed Gabi-gi-aoi, his second in
command, to take over on the morrow. And
should Mr. Patrol-officer Brown, who had a
nasty way of calling in at Mauviavi out of
his time, happen along, Gabi was to say that
Urupi was away at the Mission respectably
getting married.
On the night of the morrow, just as the
red star rose above the palm-patch, a modest
little figure, all swathed in rann-fibie
ings, crept down .the. croton track and
the Great Man’s canoe. And together ti „
glided away into the tropic night. .
Higher up stream, three brothers, mignt.
fine in rows of dogs’-teeth and paradise
plumes and combs in their hair and
shells, sat at their paddles awaiting big-
brother Garea and his little bride, IS amour.
* * » *
Cornea swore Urupi had compromised her
by carrying her off in the darkness. How
would Big Gubbiment take it? Urupi wasn t
quite sure. So they were married. And
Cornea reached her aim of a life-time ; she
became Leading Lady, and snubbed all those
upstarts, the armed constabulary wives. And
Urupi, that wily old ex-wickedness, saved
his pomposity by swearing it was Cornea he
had wanted all the while.
The married wives delving in the sago
swamps simply smiled.
S. S. SEVERN.
The Grey Woman.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HERE’S a little old woman
I In a long grey cloak,
-L And the cross word, the hard word
Is all she ever spoke.
With the old shawl about her
And a creel upon her hand.
She comes sowin’ docks an’ darnels
Through the kind green land.
’Twas she that turned the wheat black,
Twas she that broke the plough ;
’Twas she that. .. .Whisht, acushla,
’Tis Herself comes now!
For the red cow’s ailin’,
Sure the wind’s from the east,
And God He knows the east wind
Is ill for man an’ beast!
And the black rain is beatin’
Like a flail upon the hay.
And the mould is in the barley,
An’ the rent’s due to-day.
With sorrow and vexation
Our hearts are nearly broke!
Go away, old woman.
In the long grey cloak!
Och. ye thrawn old woman
With the creel upon your hand,
To be sowin’ docks an’ darnels
Through the good green land !
Sure, fame is only fancy,
An’ wealth is far to find,
An’ life is like a brown leaf—
A candle in the wind!
A low flame, a long flame,
An’ then.... a puff o’ smoke.
Och, shame upon ye, woman,
In the long grey cloak!
VICTOEIA.
MABIE E. J. PITT.


gig >
m qg&ii
✓ ..."
M
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHGUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD
CONCORD WEST, N, S. WALES.
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Qffiee—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
RE
YOU
reD
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW: it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL.
in every instance. The price is within the
reaeh of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CQ.,
S 4!) Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
Don’t wait to
be Bilious
Keep well. Whenever your appetite begins to
flag, or a sour stomach and
coated tongue warn you,
take Carter’s Little
Liver Pills (pure!
vegetable) and the
trouble won’t
come.
Good for
man, woman
and child.
For your health’s sake stick to this old, tried
and true remedy. Purely vegetable.
Small Pill—Small Dose—Small Prloe.
GENUINE must bear signature
CUTB&
ITTLE
IV EK
PIULS.
UhJ
6 oars
of this
delicious,
long-lasting
beneficial
sweet
for 3d.
Most economical
refreshment you
can buy. ,
Get it at Chemists, Con-
fectioners, Tobacco
Shops and Stores.
Be SURE its
WRIGLEYS
m
m
58
m
$
m
b
S
Si
SB
O
€
©
is
&
SEALED TIGHT-KEPT RIGHT
The Flavour Lasts
Made t>y wm. Wrieiey Jr. Co. Prop. Ltd..
Rosebery, Sydney, N.S.W
91
r.
V
C
-C.'t
.
/
\
/
l
2
X:
-r
\
< i
The Righf Sorl*
“Where’s That Microbe
Gone?”
The safety=trail leads a man to his own
home garden, where in the sunshine he
can sit at leisure and enjoy his
G
D
‘Smoke as often as you can!
99
cr>
ran
0^
tu* «♦«■»
1
/ :
PERFECT PIPE
WWWVMMBmmmirrn.
Many popular shapes. Obtainable everywhere


NGROVITE:
LEATHER
3E3
It Saves Power
ni^vjk 6 lt Snps pulleys and transmits
maximum power. Strong, durable and flex-
rnnn ? , answers «very poiyer-..-peed. Specially
tanned by our Mangrovite 'process it is the
most economical belting procurable. Let us
prove it on your power-plant.
Mangrovite Belting' Ltd.
(Charles Ludowici, Managing: Director),
49 York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney NSW
Western Austraba : Gibbs, Bright & Co. Perth
S th Australia: John Reid <fe Sons Ltd., Adelaide
CIRCULAR SAWS.
For 60 years we have been casting the steel and manufacturing
Circular haws. That fact is sufficient assurance that you will
set the most real value for your money by adopting
“An Eagle on a Globe”
as your standard when buying.
All our Circular Saws are made from Double Extra Crucible
hteei. Standard Gauges and Holes—ls different kinds of
teeth. Prices on request to Desk “A.”
The Eagle & Globe Steel Co. Ltd.
Makers of Ultra Capital High Speed Steel, p
379-381 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
V
BARDIE’S “FIBROLITE”
GENUINE ASBESTOS CEMENT SHEETS
improve with age.
The builder who uses them knows that his building
will be better because “Fibrolite” is all pure Aus-
tralian Asbestos Cement and will not rust, rot or
decay and is immune from chemical fumes and sea air.
“Fibrolite” improves with age. It will not crack
or chip. Cheaper than lath and weatherboard, as less
studding is used. Send for the new illustrated
“Fibrolite” Book- —really an interesting publication
that all home owners should have.
James fiardie & Co. Ltd.
“Asbestos House,”
Cr. York and Wynyard Streets, SYDNEY.
’Phone 8456 (4 Lines).
581-3 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
30 Currie Street, Adelaide,
Newcastle Agents—Paul & Cray Ltd.
Queensland Agents—Queensland Machinery Co ,
Albert Street, BRISBANE.
REFRIGERATING AND
ICE-MAKING MACHINERY.
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNlNG—which is pertinent to the times
—their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions they can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.” Their strong
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
We study your requirements and design the layout of your
plant, not only to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service.
All
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
J. WILDRIDCE & SINCLAIR LTD., Alliance Building, 97 Pitt Street, Sydney.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth; and Auckland, N.Z.
&
7
i
I
L.A. Rowboat Motors
J MAGNETO TYPE.
lorse-power 2; Bore of Cylinder 2 5-8
nches; Stroke of Piston 2}£ inches;
Weight 621 b.
A light, durable motor, made expressly for attach-
ing to fishing-boats, pleasure-boats, canoes, etc.
Develops a speed from 6 to 8 miles per hour.
Special price, packed and delivered Free
on Boat or Rails, £25.
Correspondence invited.
D. 8 W. Chandler Pty. Ltd.,
Ironmongers and
Hardware Merchants,
Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
TUDOR ACCUMULATORS.
ALL TYPES ALL SIZES
FOR
Town L*igHting', Country House lighting, etc.
THE TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.
BOX: P.O, 2550.
TELEPHONE: CITY 8!
(Australasian Office)—
Culwulla Chambers,
CASTUREAGH STREET SYDNEY,
PUMPS-Good Pumps Only
We manufacture what is probably the most extensive and
varied line of Pumps listed by any Australian Manufacturer, and
can at the present time deliver all Standard Heavy Lines listed
We illustrate Heavy Side Bolt or Well Pumps. These are made
with valves as shown, ball valves or special valves to any specifi-
cation; they are supplied in all sizes, and are regularly listed
from ljpn. to Bin. in diameter, by any stroke required. Other Pumps
manufactured include:—
BORE PUMPS, all sizes and strokes, any specification.
DOWNING’S Patent FOOLPROOF Artesian Deep Well
Cylinders.
BALL Valve ARTESIAN DEEP WELL Cylinders.
PUMP CATALOGUE ON REQUEST.
CONTRACT WORK—Send Specifications
ALDERDICE LTD., Warrnambool
DELGO-LIGHT
A complete Electric Light Power
Plant, suitable for Suburban and
Country Houses, Stations, Stores
Hospitals, Schools of Arts, etc.
<•<*** * »*‘t Bjr'£ v, * ,t
Runs on
Kerosene
Sale.
Reliable
One Gallon of Kerosene
wit! light 32 Lamps for 4% hours,
PULL PARTICULARS PROM SOLE AGENTS—
N.S.W. & Victoria : WARBURTON, L RAN K I LTD.,
309 Kent Street, Sydney; 380 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: SMELLIE & CO. LTD., Brisbane.
I l ' SELF STARTING ELECTRIC
LIGHTePOWER PLANT
ir-n
41
- --> i:
Hi I
SO"
-v-
; ; ' ■ -.Yf*
I-.- l jJ^^
r; m ZiTF I r* *>
' ,l
Splendid light and power
one outfit.
For farms, stations, country stores,
factories, hails, the Fairbanks Morse
Outfit gives electric light, and also cur-
rent for operating labor-saving house-
' hold appliances like electric fans, irons,
sewing-machines, etc.
8-b.h.p. Fairbanks Morse Engine supplies
power for ail farm machinery such as
chafl'cutters, pumps, saw-benches. Out-
fit comprises Engine (magneto ignition,
throttle governed), Hall-bearing Dy-
namo, Iligli-gradc Switchboard and
Battery of 16 Cells charged ready for
use. So simple a boy can operate it.
Write for Booklet and Price to Sole Agents—
Dahgar, Gedye S Co. Ltd.,
9-13 Young Street, Circular Quay, SYDNEY.
SUB-AGENTS: Winchcombe, Carson Ltd., Brisbane; A'. G. Webster & Sons, Ltd., Hobart; Malloch Bros., Perth-
J. Bartram & Sons, Pty., Ltd., Melbourne. ’
X
E
11
E2OO
est
and the Latest Valve,
Extract from Report of Trial Run of K Class No. 1353 Locomotive
designed and built at Eveleigh, N.S.W.:
“The engine is so designed as to render it independent of pit
attention by the engine crew, and the trial trip was successfully run. . . . The
engine is fitted with outside valve gear, Lucy Superheater, Automatic Cooling and
Circulating System ... and EVERLASTING BLOW-OFF VALVES, which may
be operated whilst running.”
These Valves are manufactured in Australia in all Types and all Metals for all Services by
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., Valve Specialists, 350 George Street, Sydney.
WRITE. FOR BOOKLETS, PRICES AND ALL DATA.
