

DEWAR’S —The Whisky of Discretion
R. G. WATK.IWFS «S& CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
» N
'V!
WE ADVANCE
MONEY
ON EASY
TERMS
ON ALL CLASSES OF SECURITY
WITHOUT POSSESSION. r
NSW-MONT de PIETE
D gf I C9Y LIMITED.
t* 74 Castlereagh St.74.Sydney
CAPITAL 5.200,000 * Phone CxLy 9325
Sranc/tes Jt- 29 King St.. Newcastle,NSW- 71517 Swanstom 5t
40 Adelaide StJrisbane.Q. I 97 A Castlereagh StJ59 George St. West, Sydney.
Joseph W Hill, Acting General nan&sren
sfd
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not be laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete D. and I. Co. Ltd.”
f I
CHROMOL
if
(Trade Mark)
The Super Driving Belt.
The largest mining and smelt-
ing plants use “Chromol,” because
of its proven superiority over all
other Belting.
Sole Makers;
J.C.Ludowkif SsnLtd.
Pioneer Leather Belting Works,
117 York Street, Sydney
Pioneers and Leaders since JB5B.
WMwm
mm
m
mm
n
WMm
n
s?
u
S 3
M
&2
fk
3HI
<n
w
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HANSEN’S
sa
d
*>r INDIGESTION
«»« DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acta
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
“Not the
same
as others
m
n
—has proved itself in actual use to be
absolutely satisfactory in every way.
It will not rust, crack or leak, and is
water, acid and vermin proof.
Write for samples and illustrated booklet, post free.
The Paraffine Companies Inc., I<td. (F. M. Prince, Australasian
Manager), Challis House, Sydney.
A new and revised edition of the
“Referee” is now available,
and will be sent post free on
application to
JOHN LYSAGHT (Australia) LIMITED
8 Spring Street, SYDNEY,
s
the recognised standard
of quality throughout
the Commonwealth
VIN ERVO
e
ORME, KEIGWIN 'A CO. LTD.. SYDNEY Sole A^nts.
Instead of lath &. plaster or wood—use
GYPSBOARD
Firmly established as the only material which gives interior walls and ceilings the durability of
a Monolith. Made in Australia. Write for Sample, Post Free.
NOYES BROS. (Sydney) LTD., 115 Clarence Street, Sydney
I
s >
TOOTH PASTE
Used Every Day
Prevents Decay.
f sfd
Make NO mistake ——the PAVILION,’ Circular Quay, is
the most popular establishment in Syd ey for Luncheons, Afternoon Teas, Dinners and After-Theatre Suppers. Orchestral performances at all meals.
The Bulletin
Vol. 40.—N0. 2073.
Thursday, November 6, 1919.
PRICE 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


This Week’s Toilet Hints
THE LATEST AND SMARTEST BEAUTY RECIPES COLLECTED
FROM VARIOUS EXPERT BEAUTY WRITERS.
A “BLACKHEAD” SECRET.
An instantaneous remedy for blackheads,
oily skin, and enlarged pores.
Blackheads, oily skins and enlarged pores
usually go together, but can be instantly
corrected by a unique new process. A tablet
of stymol, obtained from the chemist, is
dropped in a tumbler of hot water, which
will then of course “fizz” briskly. When the
effervescence has subsided the face is bathed
with tlie stymol-charged water and then
dried with a towel. The offending black-
heads, of their own accord, come right off
on the towel, the large oily pores imme-
diately contract and efface themselves natu-
rally. There is no squeezing, forcing or any
drastic action. The skin is left uninjured,
smooth, soft and cool. A few such treat-
ments should be taken at intervals of three
or four days thereafter in order to ensure
the permanence of the pleasing result so
quickly obtained.
GREY HAIR—HOME REMEDY.
An old-fashioned home-made recipe restores
youthful appearance.
There are plenty of reasons why grey
hair is not desirable, and plenty of reasons
why hair dyes should not be used. But,
on the other hand, there is no reason why
you should have grey hair if you do not
want it. To turn the hair back to a natural
color is really a very simple matter. One
has only to get from the chemist two ounces
of concentrate of tammalite and mix it with
three ounces of bay rum. Apply to the hair
with a small sponge for a few nights and
the greyness will gradually disappear. This
liquid is not sticky or greasy and does not
injure the hair in any way. It has been
used for generations with most satisfactory
results by those who have known the for-
mula.
TO KILL ROOTS OF SUPERFLUOUS
HAIR.
“Home Science.”
Women annoyed with disfiguring growths
of superfluous hair wish to know not merely.
how to temporarily remove the hair, but how
to kill the hair roots permanently. For this
purpose pure powdered pheminol may be
applied directly to the objectionable hair
growth. The recommended treatment is de-
signed not only to instantly remove the hair,
but also to actually kill the roots so that
the growth will not return. About an ounce
of pheminol, obtainable from the chemist,
should be sufficient.
THE REAL CAUSE OF MOST BAD
COMPLEXIONS.
“Health and Beauty.”
It is an accepted fact that no truly
beautiful complexion ever came out of jars
and bottles, and the longer one uses cos-
metics the worse the complexion becomes.
Skin, to be healthy, must breathe. It also
must expel, through the pores, its share of
the body’s effete material. Creams and
powders clog the pores, interfering both
with elimination and breathing. If more
women understood this there would be fewer
self-ruined complexions. If they would use
ordinary mercolised wax instead of cos-
metics they would have natural, healthy
complexions.
ABOUT HAIR TONICS.
“Novel Recipes.”
Each week almost one hears of some
wonderful discovery for improving the hair,
and although this paragraph may seem a
little superfluous, an old-fashioned recipe
may come as a welcome change. One thing
about it is that it will grow hair, and also
prevent it falling out. From your chemist
get an original package of boranium, to this
add -j-pint of bay runi. allow it to stand
30 minutes, then add sufficient water to
make half-a-pint. Rub briskly into the
scalp with the finger-tips, and you will im-
mediately - experience that clean. tingling
sensation which is a sure sign of healthy
action. I 1
A DINKUM DIGGER
TELLS' OF HIS DIGGERS.
of a
Battalion
by
MAJOR W. DEVINE,
M.C., Croix de Guerre with Palm.
With 1 2 Full-page Illustrations and 4 Maps
bv Daryl Lindsay, Official Artist with
the A.I.F.
In this book,Major W. Devine, one of the -ost popular of padres in the A.1.F., gives the
life of the Australian soldiers and of the Australians’ part in the war m France, .as seen in
the story of a single battalion.
Prom its formation in the heat and dirt of Egypt to the tragedies and comedies of life
in the mud of the Western Front, our author carries us. His style is terse and forceful, and
his pen-pictures of incidents remain indelibly on the mind.
Daryl Lindsay’s illustrations are a special feature of the book.
PRICE 6/-; POSTAGE 2d.
ALL PROFITS TO A SOLDIERS’ FUND.
MELVILLE & MULLEN PTY., LTD.,
Collins Street, Melbourne.
ď
SOLDIERS’ DIARIES.
THE Mitchell Library is desirous of pur-
chasing for the State Archives original
diaries of Australian Soldiers taking part
in the Great War, Gpod prices will be
paid for good material. Address Mitchell
Library, Macquarie Street, Sydney.
For the Trustees.
W. H. IFOTJLD,
Principal Librarian and Secretary.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
6d» weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 115 High Holborn, London, W.G..
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
THE PALACE HOTEL,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OF PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
JOHN T. GLOWREY, Proprietor.
Rill the Typßoid Fly. House Flies are
Potent Carriers of Disease.
THE NON-POISONOUS POWDER.
“MUSTDIE”
THE GREAT INSECT DESTROYER,
KILLS Flies, Fleas, Bugs, Mosquitoes,
Cockroaches, Ants, Moths and Silverfish.
TRADE MARK.
IS NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
,»o
99
Sold at Chemists, Grocers, Storekeepers,
tins 9d. If not obtainable locally then
forward’ 9d. in stamps to Hudson's Eumen-
thol Chemical Co, Ltd., Sydney. 12
The Red Page
Bengali
If a man has first conquered himself so
completely that the direction of his desire is
a habit, so easy has it become; and if for the
greater part of his life he sits in an Indian
garden in meditation, it is a certainty that
to the ascetic (and to the technique of the
direction of desire) his thoughts will be val-
uable. But that they will be valuable at all
to a man just living, and with noticeably
misdirected desires, is not so certain. The
teacher and writer should, no doubt, be on
a plane higher than that of his pupils; but
it should not be too much higher, lest he
be in danger of vanishing from their eyes
into thin air.
If a Western takes this self-imposed duty
of conquering self more seriously than his
brothers do, he goes into the monastery of a
Reflective Order, putting the thick walls of
vows and hard work between the self that lie
would keep and the self that he would con-
quer. There he lives and dies, with the walls
safely round him to the end. It is assumed
that the work of self-defeat is accomplished;
no proof comes to hand, because the walls
stand firmly as the centuries pass, and the
monks die one by one without opening their
lips. The Eastern apparently gets all that
over out in the world, and then settles down
in a garden to write verse and teach his
disciples.
He writes thin echoes of the Song of Sol-
omon with a strong religious flavor. I take
it that a good Song of Solomon is not written
by conquest of self; but even a poor Song of
Solomon will make a reasonably good and
popular book. In the matter of popularity,
the religious flavor is of great assistance. It
is fair to say that the work is often impress-
ive in its erotic “trance-like beauty,” that
the eroticism is subdued to its proper literary
and spiritual place, and that the impression
of beauty remains for a good long time.
For my own part, in reading Tagore it be-
came a sub-conscious impression; I smelled
so many Roses of Sharon that in the end I
took the perfume for granted, until I came
out of the trance.
fix his preface to the “Gitanjali,” the Song
Offerings, Yeats writes in his accustomed
musical English: “These verses will not lie
idle in little well-printed books but as the
generations pass, travellers will hum them
on the highway and men rowing upon rivers.”
It is excellently and most romantically put,
but I don’t think it is true. In all Rabin-
dranath Tagore’s work, in the “Gitanjali” of
1913 (and the Nobel Literature Prize), in
“The Gardener,” “The Crescent Moon” “Sad-
hana.” the “Lover’s Gift and Crossing,” down
to this year’s novel, “The Home • and the
World,” the qualities that make these works
valuable and in their ways beautiful are the
qualities which make their recommendation
to men rowing upon rivers impossible. They
are “literary” works fined down almost to
the point of ineffable transparency, Eastern
and -dreamy and cox-relatively obscure; and
I have no doubt that their fate is to “lie
idle in little well-printed books.”
In 1912 the India Society published the
“Gitanjali,” a translation by the author of
his Bengali lyrics. Macmillan brought it out
ig,l f> ' t -‘L-n v ’d^re£i’i n t e d it five times in four
months. In that year ISSts’s Jfrisu
Players played Tagore’s “The Post Office,”
and the London success was a certainty,
sealed by the Nobel Prize. The quality of
the later works, “The Gardener,” “The
Crescent Moon” and the others, was suffi-
ciently up to sample to give Tagore an
assured place, even without the knighthood
that came in 1915. It was all mystic enough
to impress the readers with its spiritual
value, “bcdutiful” enough to impress the
critics, and literaril.v polished and skilful
enough to hold its own. But at this end
of the seven years I think I find Sir Rabin-
dranath’s mastery of a foreign language the
most admirable thing in his work :
That I want thee, only thee—let my heart repeat
without end. All desires that distract me, day and
night, are false and empty to the.core.
As the night keeps hidden in its gloom the petition
for light, even thus in the depths of my unconscious-
ness rings the cry—l want thee, only thee.
As the storm still seeks its end in peace when it
strikes against peace with all its might, even thus
my rebellion strikes against thy love and still its
cry is—l want thee, only thee.
That is good stuff, poignant and musical,
grouped and phrased with skill. Again:
Where dost thou stand behind them all, my lover,
hiding thyself in the shadows? They push thee and
pass thee by on the dusty road, taking thee for
naught. I wait here weary hours spreading my
offerings for thee, while passers-by come and take my
flowers, one by one, and my basket is nearly empty.
But time glides on and still no so.und of the wheels
of thy chariot. Many a procession passes by with
noise and shouts and glamor of glory. Is it only
thou who wouldst stand in the shadow silent and
behind them all? And only I who. would wait and
weep and wear out my heart in vain longing?
There is life in that, and a tear-stained,
significant tenderness which at first reading
I thought miraculous, ecstatic utterance.
But I cannot hear any men humming these
things upon rivers; they will want matters
nearer to themselves and their work, down
to the end of all the generations.
The Jew who wrote the Song of Solomon
thought and spoke in bodily terms, and with
a full strength of bodily inspiration, that
carried him away. The body was his ex-
pression; and by it he leaped to his highest
thought, his song of his love of God. I
make no doubt that the men pushing their
punts upon the waters of Babylon hummed
bits of the Song; there is strength and
meat enough in it to get to them. But the
Bengali garden-poets fall between two stools.
They do not speak with the inspired vision
of the mystic in ecstasy, and they dilute
the Song and its forms of expression with
the waters of self-repression. The result in
the end is nothing, in little, well-printed
books.
The poet’s duty is not self-defeat; it is
self-expression. True expression will auto-
matically defeat or suppress the bodily self
that is in need of repression. And to make
the songs of the highway and the rivers, all
a poet’s self is needed, body and mind.
HILARY LORTING.
Neilson
In Heart of Spring (The Bookfellow,
Sydney) Shaw Neilson collects many of his
scattered verses into a little book that is full
of delicate charm. His is not the strong,
clear note of a master singer; his themes
are often of the slightest and his craftsman-
ship enables him to miss the commonplace
by a very narrow margin; but the work will
please the literary reader, while, by a certain
gentle force which it possesses, it may reach
many to whom much modern poetry is a
thing strange and incomprehensible. Neil-
son shows a fine feeling for words and
phrases; and though it can hardly be said
that it is the inevitable music he gives us,
there is quality and distinctive style in his
verses. He has a keen sympathy, too, which
makes him very lovable, even if he does not
often get to the heart of things or touch
the deeps within deeps.
Heart of Spring can go on its own
mex-its as a valuable addition to the Australian
library ; but it is handicapped by the preface
which “A.G.S.” contributes. To call Shaw
Neilson “first Of Australian poets” is to in-
vite l'idicule. It cannot be fairly said that
he is even in the front rank ; and to place
his little book beside those of Henry Lawson,
Rodei'ic Quinn, Henry Kendall, G. J. Bren-
nan, Zora Ci’oss or Mary Gilmore—all of
them Australians by birth —would be merely
to make the new volume feel thin and uncom-
fortable. Still there is much in it to be
thankful for. Here is “Pale Neighbor,” a
poem which shows the author’s limitation
as well as his strength:—
Over the road she lives not far,
My neighbor, pale and thin.
“Sweet is the world !” she cries. “How sweet
To keep on living in!”
Her heart it is a right red heart
That cannot stoop to pine;
Her hand-clasp is a happiness,
Her .welcome is a wine.
Love, She will have it, is a lilt
From some lost comedy
Played long ago when the white .stars
Lightened the greenery.
Ever she talks of earth and air
And sunlit junketing;
Gaily she says, “I know I shall
Be dancing in the Spring!”
Almost I fear her low, low voice
As one may fear the moon,
As one may fear too faint a sound
In an old uncanny tune.
Over the road ’twill not be long—
Clearly I see it a 11... .
Ere ever the red days come up
Or the pale grasses fall.
There will be black upon us, and
Within our eyes a dew:
We shall be walking neighborly
As neighbors—two and two.
Nobody can deny that there is skill there ;
and nobody could assert that the verse shows
any remarkable insight or feeling. It is deli-
cate and tender, but superficial. The dying
girl does nothinteresfe" the reader enough to
make the suggestion of the last stanzas much
more than the commonplace spoken every
day about death. Not much more —but just
in the mild qualification you get Shaw Neil-
son.
But “Pale Neighbor” is a good deal above
this author’s average work, both in manner
and in thought. The verses called “Little
White Girl” give a fair idea of a good deal
the book contains:—
Fears ~aye ming/for a. face
Violets perish, lilies are few:
There is an ache in my heart for you.
In all the tawdry, treacherous city.
You are -the one thing white and clean,
The only riches where all is mean,
Little white girl so pale and pretty 1
Fears are mine for a face so pretty!
I have been lover of lips and chins.
And a listener to violins
Crying for love and calling for pity;
And it all conies back with yaur eyes and hair. ..
But the darkness threatens you everywhere,
Little white girl, so pale and pretty.
That might easily have been just album-
verse—but it isn’t by a long, long way. And
for another sample—one of the best things
in the book: —•
Speak not to me, old violin!_
Mock not this heart of mine !
Thou mummy with the glistening skin
Speak not to me, old violin!
For the dead men have shadows thin,
And all their sobs are thine —•
Speak not to me, old violin!
Mock not this heart of mine.
•-Thou mummy with the glistening skin” is
just about as poor as all the rest is fine.
Heart of Spring contains" a great deal that
must please and very little than can jar on
the most sensitive soul. If Shaw Neilson
were a very young man the promise would
be remarkable.
"Australia in Palostino"
No more attractive Digger book has been
published than this, and we don’t expect a
better. It is so varied in its interest. There
is the historical, a review of the “Fighting
for Palestine,” done by H. S. Guile tt; the
pictorial, a really remarkable collection of
prints in color and line and half-tone, in-
cluding work by G. W. Lambert and David
Barker, color-photos by Frank Hurley,
drawings by David Barker and half a dozen
others, and a hundred or so photographs, for
the most part admirably reproduced and of
absorbing interest; reproductions of a few
of Barker’s etchings ; 150 pages of simple,
direct sketches of the life the Diggers found
in Palestine and the life they lived
themselves told by themselves; nature notes
by Charles Barrett, one of the editors; verse
by “Trooper Bluegum,” “Gerardy” and'
others; aerial photographs of Damascus,
Jerusalem and other cities that are older
even than Parramatta. Naturally the his-
torical review is written with more aloofness,
with the pen of the onlooker rather than of the
participant. So we get there such illuminat-
ing bits as this:—
The Australian soldier has an extraordinary
capacity for making friends. He has an easy way
with peoples of all races .and colors. In France
he is completely at his ease among the French
peasantry; and he saunters through the Arab vil-
lages in Palestine as familiarly and as confidently
as he used to walk the streets of his townships and
cities at home. His old enemy the Turkish ranker
is his admired personal friend. But the strong
bond which sprang up so quickly between the Light
(Continued on page 24.)


m
itee
jMhi
D
'X
-X
N
■///•
i.inp'
Summer 1919=20.
The Seasons Most
es.
LL that Milady desires in the realms
of ultra-fashionable Attire is to be
found in the brilliant assembly at
Anthony Horderns’.
The extensive selections in every section—Blouses, Skirts,
Costumes, Gowns, etc., have been thoughtfully planned so that a
rigidly-curtailed dress allowance may yet find ample scope for
adding distinction and a degree of exclusiveness to the Summer
Wardrobe.
Customers at a distance may safely entrust their requirements to Anthony
Horderns’
EFFICIENT MAIL-ORDER SERVICE.
f
Every care is exercised to interpret clients’ exact wishes, and skilled know-
ledge of transit ensures safe and prompt arrival of the goods.
D427.—Exquisite Robe in Nigger Shade
Georgette, designed on lines of becoming- simplicity,
with plain round yoke, beaded in V. Rose and featuring
stockinette slip from yoke passing through waistline,
caught below and offset with fringe. Long, loose
sleeves, embellished in V. Rose to match, and tassel,
finished long girdle sash.
Price 7 Guineas
DllB-1105.—Handsome Gown in Mole Georg-
ette. Corsage is draped quaintly into a sash and fringe-
finished: is further offset on left side with emplacement
of Vieux Rose Georgette from shoulder to skirt. Over-
dress of Georgette. Very smart.
Price £9/12/6
DllB-1119.—Fashioned in Shell-pink Georg-
ette. The corsage and half-sleeves are prettily faggot-
stitched. Black silken fringe decorates the waistline,
which is defined by a narrow girdle. Small, knife-
pleated panels, fringe-finished, decorate the sides, and
the overdress is effectively treated in black stitching.
Price 9 Guineas
Attractive flod
Pretty and Inexpensive
Blouses.
1X5201. —White Voile Blouse, trimmed Imitation
Filet Lace and Insertion, with new, long-roll collar, hem-
stitched and linked cuffs, finished pearl buttons.
Price 5/11
IX96l.—Fashionable Fuji Silk Blouse, striped roll
collar, smartly pointed on shoulders, turned-back cuffs,
hemstitched and finished pearl buttons. In stripes—
Brown, Rose, Saxe, Navy and Black.
Price 21/-
1X930 (as illustration). —
Fashionable White
Voile Blouse, fancy roll
collar, hemstitched and
smartly pin-t uck e d,
trimmed lace and insertion,
finished with dainty crochet
buttons.
Price 12/11
M
pip
1X930
1X362. —White
Voile Blouse,
hemstitched and
daintily trimmed
Valenciennes Lace
and Insertion, roll
collar, with smart
wide rovers,
trimmed cuffs.
Price 9/11
L
D 1324
JJI33 3
238
y
Dl333.—Dainty Skirt in Soft White
Voile, the semi-overdress falling into hem-
stitched and crochet-buttoned panels; narrow,
folded belt. Size W. only.
Price 15/6
Dl324.—Serviceable Little Skirt in
White Pique. The front is decorated with
an inverted pleat. Patch pockets and narrow
belt further enhances. Slightly gathered at
back.
Price ... Size W., 16/6. Size 0.5., 12/6
D23B.—Another Summery Skirt in Soft
White Voile. embroidery inlet and hem-
stitched, and a wide, folded belt embellishes.
The foot of Skirt is also hemstitched. Size \Y.
only.
Price
15/11
Dainty
and
Distinctive
SKIRTS
jm iniaii Him 1 1 im—ii mi
1X1940 (as illus-
tration). —A beauti-
fully worked White
Voile Blouse,
roll collar, with
wide, embroidered
revers, hemstitched
and edged fine gui-
pure lace, finished
smart crochet orna-
ments, plain turned-
back cuffs 15/11
£5071. —Dainty
Blouse of Cham-
pagne Shade
Jap Silk, hem-
stitched and em-
broidered on roll col-
lar and fronts, new
turned back linked
cuffs.
Price .... 19/6
Dll8 —1105.
DllB-1119.
1X1940
Write for a copy of the
Handsomely Illustrated
FASHION CATALOGUE.
Post Free Anywhere.
ONLY UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS
605 BRICKFIELD HILL SYDNEY
We Pay Carriage on
Fashion Goods to all parts
of N.S.W. and nearest port
Interstate.
70


Record your holiday happiness
KODAK
Do not let your good times pass by—
forgotten. Get a Kodak and make
pictures of everything that interests you
on your holiday—whether you travel to
the city or to the country. At any
future time you will then be able to
look over the pictures and enjoy the
memories they will recall.
You can learn to use a Kodak in
half an hour. They are all Autographic
and at prices to suit every pocket.
The 3a Autographic Kodak is a very useful
camera —really the most popular made; takes post-card
pictures— si x3f inches, Price £6/2/6.
The No. la Autographic Kodak Junior, compact,
simple and efficient. Pictures 2{ x4 4 inches. Price 70/-
Others from 40/- to £l4/17/6.
The No. 3 Brownie—for pictures 3 4 x 4$ inches.
Price 23 6.
Ask for the new Kodak Catalogue.
Of all Kodak dealers, and
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.
879 George Street, Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins - Street, Melbourne;
27)0-252 Queen Street, Brisbane; The Valley; 37 Bundle Street, Adelaide;
45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart; Ruthven Street, Toowoomba; Flinders Street,
Townsville; Denham Street, Rockhampton; Optical and Photo Supplies Co.,
Perth; 109-111 Dixon Street, Wellington, N.Z. (Wholesale); “The Kodak
Corner,” Corner Lambton Quay and AVillis Street, Wellington, N.Z. (Retail) ;
3 Lome Street, Auckland. N.Z. (Wholesale)'; 70 Stuart Street, Dunedin, N.Z.
(Wholesale) ; 148 Lichfield Street, Christchurch, N.Z. (Wholesale)
I
'
m IS
\
M
m
w
1
Cl!
m
I„MV .5 4
■ P(
pir^c;
irft
*
>s
t^ilf
i ?>■■■■
m
14
f
U\S4St~U*hGf\
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
M.
STl i
CONDENSE 0
NEST BRAND
MADE IN austra° a
Siltaoio SWISS CONDKe
Melbourne.
iMIDE, PEF? tH *
Ip? II
\
/r"
~=s§§
life
:
z
N. 159


For
A Clear Complexion
Constipation disfigures the com"
plexion with pimples and blotches-
Poisoncus matter which should have
been expelled from the system is
retained and gives rise to impurities
in the blood.
Pinkettes quickly clear away all
offending matter without the least
griping or discomfort. They are a
corrective for bad breath, will clear
the complexion, and are recom-
mended for torpid liver, biliousness,
headaches, constipation, and when-
ever a gentle laxative is required.
1/- per bottle at all dealers.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “The Bulletin.’
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.,
SYDNEY. N.S.W.
801
8. B
/Queensland:
f THE KEY TO
PROSPERITY.
QUEENSLAND
opens the door to
prosperity tor those
requiring land
Particulars ot the
millions ot acres of
Crown Land
now available will be
sent you at once,
also Booklets on the
State's resources—
FREE
Name
Address.
Queensland Government
launiieuce and Tourist Bureau
JABORINE
Hair Tonic.
For Falling: Hair.
This old-established, genuine prepara-
tion is absolutely the best ever intro-
duced for falling hair.
Falling hair is a prevalent trouble
to-day as a result of the recent
influenza epidemic. A feu- applica-
tions of “Jaborine” stops the falling,
and continued use strengthens and
makes the hair grow thick.
Price 3/6 the Bottle,
POST FREE.
Sole Proprietors:
CRAIG Sl AITKEIM,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established, over 30 years.
fAc&<o4 *
;|||||| <&*£st
ftu-r i
II
ill
■yy&r.
mm
m
D
m
m
COMMUNITY PLATE
Discriminating Hostesses
prefer COMMUNITY
CUTLERY for the grace
and splendour that it lends
to the table.
Its period Designs—Adam,
Sheraton, Hepplewhite and Pat-
rician, seem to breathe of the
romantic and historic past; and
give to COMMUNITY PLATE
that subtle charm that casts its
spell upon all lovers of the
beautiful and finds its way into
palaces.
Community Plate carries with
it the guarantee of 50 years
service and its designs are strictly
its own and are not duplicated in
any other quality. It not only
carries a very thick plate of
silver, but an additional overlay
of pure silver has been added at
the base of the bowl, more than
doubling the durability.
A few of the distinguished
patrons of "Community’’ are—
The Baroness de Meyer, New
York; Lady Randolph Churchill,
London ; Mrs. O. H. P. Belmont;
Mrs. Oliver Harriman, N. Y.;
Duchess of Rutland, London;
Mrs Honore Palmer. Chicago;
Duchess of Marlborough ana
Countess Cadogan, London; Mrs.
Reginald C. Vanderbilt, N.Y.
Have Community Cutlery in
your home.
On sale at the leading shops.
■/
J
<| fig
Hi
&m m >
Iji ;?jp
II till
t-'v.'-j \. 'rvv* 17 ' •
ii
bm F''-
fWakfost Room of the Beronpsi de Meyer
ONEIDA COMMUNITY LIMITED
The Banking House, 228 Pitt Street, Sydney
Established 1848, Incorporated 1881 at Oneida, New York, U.S.A.
so makers of Oneida Community RELIANCE PLATE (Guaranteed 25 years)
Oneida Community PAR PLATE (Guaranteed 10 years)
Patrician Design
hoiwmiwim,
Table Waters
CLEAR, COOL,
SPARKLING.
Contains Lime,
Soda, Lithia and
Magnesia.
Agents:
E. ROWLANDS
PROPTV. LTD.
Purveyors to
Yiee-Koyalty.
o
u
u
asllion iy correctly interpreted in
Thistle iTurlr and their quality
iy yucli that you will wants*,
others* bearing the yame label
Procurable in all up4o date
s?hipb DepartmeatS'
le
*»■
ti
$
K
Alexander Ste^rtaSonsl!-
AfaAers -Br/sbsne
Shirty
MADE IN MUyTSAUA
fd
ďs
fd
5*76
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Peak Song.
This is the place of the birds, and the
clouds and the wider sky ;
You who are huddled together to foster a
measure of mirth.
Being so close to each other, are further
from God than am 1,
Wrapped in the clean white currents that
swirl on the edge of the earth.
Tip-toe am I on the earth, and the wonder-
ful things you have wrought
Lie far away under heel, like a scatter of
tinselled toys;
Here is the loneness of space and the region
of finer thought,
And only the gipsying singer may taste
of the rarer joys.
I have the world in my eyes; and my ears
hold the music of wings
Staved on the scroll of the air where the
wide flock flutters and dips;
And richer than gold-capped draughts that
gleam at the lips of kings
Are the snow-crisp winds from the South
that are kissing my eager lips.
This is the brink of the chasm that leans
from the stars to the land,
Bright with the color of cloud and the
swift airs galloping through;
Here on the outermost edge and a-poise o’er
your cities 1 stand,
And being high over your temples I am
nearer to God than you.
N.s.w.
BOYCE BOWDEN.
The Rainbow Bridge.
Oh, fair is Motueka
By Tasman’s brimming tide:
From sands to hills are blossoms
Abloom through valleys wide.
To northward are brown ridges,
And far to westward, till
The mountain road lifts swinging
Across the Marble Hill.
Oh! once two hearts went singing
Across the Marble Hill.
Oh, far-flung, rolling Tasman,
No careless hand would dare
To paint the spendthrift glory
That daunts the vision, where
This road, that touches Heaven.
Sways o’er the dizzy ridge.
As though from breaking water
Were built a rainbow bridge.
’Tw.as there Youth met Eve's daughter.
Upon the rainbow bridge.
Her eyes were blue as Heaven;
Her red and gentle lips
Were like the sea’s soft kisses
That speed the sunset ships;
Her heart was pure as morning,
And warmer than the tide,
Beneath the dawnlight gleaming
When Hay brings home his bride.
Once, through a moon-night’s dreaming,
She wandered by Youth’s side.
By many a blossomed valley,
By many a mountain road,
From every town and village,
Tall men to battle strode.
And some came back right wea y,
And some come back no morr ;
Their dirge, in chanted thunder,
Wide Tasman’s waters roar.
For two were torn asunder
When one went forth to war.
On nights when clouds were shaping
New loops and chains of stars,
The mail-car’s lights were vivid
As levelled scimitars.
Along the high ridge swaying,
Where scarce a shadow stirred.
It brought from far-off places
A soldier’s written word:
“I see your eyes, your graces—
Always your voice I’ve heard.”
From Golden Bay to Nelson
The sunlit vision swells
Into a glory reaching
Beyond the peaked Croiselles.
Touching the blue, bright heavens
The roadway skims the ridge,
As though of waters breaking
Were built a rainbow bridge.
The sunset winds are shaking
An arching rainbow bridge.
God spills warm, vivid color
On shining Tasman Bay,
Blue seas and swaying blossoms
And mountains far away;
And, nearer yet. the ridges
That baulk the way until
The western road lifts swinging
Across the Marble Hill.
Of grief the winds are singing
Across the Marble Hill.
MAORI!, AND.
WILL LAWSON.
The Watcher at the Dance.
Look how she glides across the shining floor,
Forgetful of each minute as it dies.
She does not see me standing by the door,
W atching an alien life with anguished eyes.
And so she twirls, blue-ribboned, wondrous
fair.
Nor feels the nearness of the terrible note
That ends the dance, when fevered hands
will tear
Her little heart, and fierce lips find her
throat.
Here from the darkness where the grey
winds whine,
I see swift powdered arms, half-hidden lace,
And steadfast choosing eyes that wait and
shine;
And so I turn and wander from the place.
Not knowing that the fiercest eyes are mine,
Or why the lithe night shudders in my face.
N.S.AV.
LEON GELLERT.


Don’t Neglect the Auxiliary Machines.
In our constant effort to obtain maximum machine shop production we are at times apt to overlook the auxiliaries
and to concentrate our attention on the strictly productive portion of the plant, to the prejudice of the remainder, which
is really just as important.
There are many links in the production scheme; it is advisable to go over them all periodically so as to make sure
that each is fully equal to its duty. .. ....
The Lumsden Oscillating Tool Grinder is a highly efficient auxiliary if used intelligently. With it, lathe, planer,
shaper and slotter tools with correct cutting and clearance angles can lie made at the lowest possible labor cost.
Without it these tools must still be made, but cost a great deal more.
The experience of our Lumsden specialist is at the disposal of anyone interested in tool production and
maintenance.
F. 459
LUMSDEN OSCILLATORS are
made in the following sizes
/ No. I—for tools up to 1 % in. by 2in.
No. 2—for tools up to 2in. by Sin.
I No. 3—for tools up to 3in. by 6in.
PROMPT DELIVERY
SPECIALTIES.
Horizontal Milling Machines.
Vertical Milling Machines.
Capstan Lathes.
Combination Turret Lathes.
Hexagon Turret Lathes.
Automatic Turning Machines.
Ball-bearing Drills.
Coventry Self-opening Dieheads.
Coventry Concentric Chucks.
Coventry Collapsing Taps.
Baush Multiple Spindle Drills.
Brown Bevel Gear Shapers.
Carpenter Taps and Dies.
Pollard Heavy Duty Drills.
Photostat Copying Machines.
Wadkin Mills Universal Woodworking
3lachines.
Dorman Tapping Attachments.
Fellows Gear Shapers.
Gardner Crank Pin Turning Machines.
Heald Grinding Machines.
Pratt Chucks.
Jackson Die Sinkers.
Keller Die Sinkers.
Maiden Screwing Machines.
Garvin Milling Machines.
Dodge & Shipley Lathes.
Lumsden Grinders.
Moback Machine Vices.
Norton Grinding: Machines.
Queen City Shaping: Machines.
E. G. Herbert Hack Sawing Machines.
Rotoflam Hardening Furnaces.
Eternite Case-hardening Compound.
Scriven Shipyard Machinery.
Taft Pierce Tool Room Specialties.
Tangye’s Heavy Machine Tools.
Van Norman Combination Mills.
Worcester Drill Grinders.
Willard Lathes.
Wrigley’s Small Tools.
CHAS E. YOUNG
Sole Agent for
ALFRED HERBERT LTD.,
(Machine Tool Makers and Importers, Coventry, England). 57 GEORGE STREET NORTH, CIRCULAR QUAY, SYDNEY.
FLIES !
And How to KILL THEM !
USE
INSECTIBANE
(Mind the Spelling).
No other powder possesses the qualities which make INSECTIBANE so
peculiarly efficacious.
Though so deadly to insect life in all forms, INSECTIBANE may be
sprinkled freely about, as it is harmless to men and animals.
The high quality of INSECTIBANE is maintained and THE PRICE HAS
NOT BEEN RAISED.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS and STORES.
SSynniniaiiiiiiiniiiHiiiiiiiiiiiiiuirng
IN
□
I 6n B g A u C e onveal
ID
Flavor that Tempts,
Quality that Pleases.
'T'HE ‘mere fact that
± "Rex” Camp Pie
bears the "Rex” label
tells you that it is with-
out a peer. Pure, clean,
properly cooked, it has a
flavor seldom found. Not
only is it most appetizing,
but most economical, and
it is wholly without waste.
Its quality conforms to
the “Rex” standard and
the “Rex” policy, which
is to make you the judge.
“REX” CAMP PIE
consists of finest selected
meats. Cooked to per-
fection then packed in a
thick jelly. Always keep
a tin in the house.
Sold everywhere.
Foggitt Jones & Co. Ltd.
Packers of
“Rex” Pure Food Products
Curers of
“Rex” Hams and Bacon.
J Itt 1
fs
Connoisseurs prefer Martell’s as a beverage.
Richness in higher ethers makes it of special
merit for use in hospitals. Insist on it.
MARTELL’S
BRANDY.
The absolute purity, distinctive
flavor and ripe mellowness of
Thorne’s are proof of its grand
quality. Call for Thorne’s next
time- -so that you may judge it
vourself.
j
THORNES
O. H. M. Incomparable WHISKY.
Fragrant and delicious, soothing and cheering
—Abdulla Cigarettes bring contentment to
the overwrought nerves.
fd
f
CIGARETTES.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
VOL. 40.—N0. 2073.
6, 1919.
Price 6d.
THE INTRUDER,
DROUGHT: “What about me?”
HUGHES-RYAN: "Oh, you get out! You've got no vote!"
[Norman Lindsay. Springwood, N.S .W. ]


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod. of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Otiice of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.''
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. Cd. per annum you can have The Bulletin
sent regularly to you every week for a year, to any
ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
ref used.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. 'The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. ivill be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it ivill be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable.' Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Tun Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-draivn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and, IV. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London, E.C.h.
SOUTH Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., } 1 Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
O.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; J.
Roland Kay Co., 181/9 Conway Buildings, Chicago,
U.S.A.; Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington,
U.S.A.; Bretano’s, Fifth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York.
Honolulu. —Home News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt ; M.
Holing, Cairo, Egypt.
llong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Ilong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera , 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo: li. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. — Whitten Bros., Samarai and Kulamadan.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe. Islands,
10os., Id.; United Kingdom, £ll Sea Route, 1605.,
lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise; 80s., lid.; 81oz. to 1002., 3d.:
lOoz. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, I/oz., lid., and Id. each
additional 2oz.
NOTICE UNDER THE ELECTORAL LAW.
For any unsigned matter in this paper for
which a signature is required under the
Commonwealth electoral law, S. H. Prior, 214
George Street, Sydney, accepts the responsi-
bility.
The special Christmas Num-
ber of THE BULLETIN will be
published on Saturday, Decem-
ber 13. It will be found just as
good as the writers and artists
of Australia can make it;
and, approximately, there are
a hundred of them repre-
sented —as far as this paper
knows, the largest collection
of workers with pen-and-ink
ever got together in Australia.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1919.
AGENTS OF DESTRUCTION.
A recent cable mentioned that the Berlin
correspondent of the London Daily Chron-
icle had interviewed prominent business
men, who stated that Germany was suffer-
ing severely from the importation of foreign
goods. “If Germany were allowed to erect
a Customs frontier,” he added, “she would
prohibit imports except vital necessities. ’
The indemnity question was settled on the
basis that Germany would only have to pay
for definite losses by the Allies of landed
property, shipping and so forth, and for war
pensions, the time to extend over 30 years.
The Boche is required, under that arrange-
ment, to pay £5,000,000,000 within the next
two years, and the balance annually as an
international Commission shall decide. The
industries of Germany are untouched. Diiren.
Solingen and the other great manufacturing
towns have been pouring their wares into
Russia and Asia all through the war; and
the moment the Versailles treaty becomes
fully operative the markets of the Allies will
be attacked. With no fleet and only a
remnant of an army to support, and with as
many years’ trade start of the French and
Belgians as it will take the latter to re-
make their roads and bridges and rebuild
their industrial centres, the Hun is on a
remarkably good wicket. Incidentally, his
debt is much smaller than it reads, because
of the value of manufactured goods having
so enormously appreciated when measured
by the pound sterling. All he requires is
the right to impose a tariff, which right
will accrue very soon now.
What Germany aims at is clear. It has
no such fears of the Curse of Protection
as haunts Cobdenists on this side of the
world where a genuinely Protective tariff
schedule has never been known. On the
contrary, the only thing the Hun greatly
dreads is Freetrade. He wants to pay for
his great mistake in goods, not only because
that is the only coin in which he can pay,
but also because by such means he can
build up the Fatherland's prestige once
more. Preferably, lie wants to pay by
selling directly to his enemies. Nothing
could be more natural in the case of a stiff-
necked people who look to the future to give
them supremacy over their conquerors. The
whole of the money with which Germany
pays its indemnity will thus be “new money,”
the fruit of extra productivity at a cheap
rate. Indeed, if the German industries
merely carried on, producing no more than
under normal conditions and for only domestic
reouirements, taxation would quickly ruin
them. If the German business men have
their way, the indemnity will, therefore,
come from England, from France and Bel-
gium, and, to an extent, from Australia.
Australia’s share is expected to be about
£100,000,000. The ideal way of paying it,
from the point of view of the German
patriot, would be for Germany to sell here
in the next 30 years £100,000,000 worth of
goods (many of them made out of our own
raw products) and for this country to keep
the money. There will be no difficulty in
disposing of the articles provided they are
allowed to enter the Commonwealth. The
most envenomed anti-Hun will hardly deny
the merit of their best motor-cars, their
toilet articles, their disinfectants and their
linen, to make no mention of such things as
toys, pianos, beer and the like in which they
come into direct competition with established
local manufactures.
* * * *
As often as it is suggested that the people
who made the Great War should be de-
barred from paying at their victips’ ex-
pense the fraction of its cost which has
been required of 'them, so often is there a
howl from Freetraders and Internationalists,
and, generally, from those who have been
most helpful to Germany in the past. The
commonest argument is that we must allow
the Germans to re-create their industrial
system (which, in point of fact, has never
been allowed to lapse) even though our own
factories suffer a little thereby—that to act
differently will be to at once kill the bird
which is anxious to lay golden eggs for us,
and condemn it to the unimaginable injustice
of punishment in perpetuity. The case for
Australia is never put. If there were no
other means by which Germany could pay
the Commonwealth than by competing on
level, or almost level, terms with our barely-
established industries, and by preventing the
founding of others, then it would probably
be better business to wipe the liability off
the slate and find the money for war pensions
ourselves. As an outcome of the unscien-
tific Protection of world warfare, the value
of land and buildings, plant and machinery
used in Australian factories increased in
value between 1913 and 1917 at the rate
of about £4,000,000 per annum. In 1917
the value of Australian-made goods was
£74,000,000, and, as Acting-Treasurer Poyn-
ton remarked in making the statement,
“there is room for great expansion.” All
the requisite conditions for increased local
production are present. The war has made
Australians nation-conscious to a remark-
able extent. Its young men, after measur-
ing themselves against the world, have come
home confident that they are as good as the
best. They feel that they can make steel
goods with Sheffield, cotton . with Man-
chester. small-arms with Birmingham, beer
with Munich, wine with France. The great
gamble of war has given their country a start
as a manufacturing nation; and the young
men know it. But they have met oversea
operatives, have seen the conditions undei
which many of them are prepared to live
and work, and they realise that Revolution
would be the price paid by Australia if it
attempted to compete with them as regards
social conditions.
* * * *
The alternative is a tariff which will
shut out the goods of the low-wage people,
amongst whom the Boche will probably be
numbered for the next quarter of a century.
And even if the procedure was followed by
the rest of the British Empire, there is no
reason to think that it would debar Ger-
many from meeting its liabilities. The
neutral nations of Europe have vast sums
made out of the war to spend on the goods
which Germany is in a position to supply.
Stockholm, for example, the capital of a
country which for years has been German
in all but name, was pronounced by a Lon-
don Daily Mail writer the other day to
be now the most luxurious city in the world.
If German industries are to be re-created
on a vast scale, it ought, in justice, to be
at the expense of nations such as Sweden,
Denmark and Holland. The German Im-
perialist will not be nearly so enthusiastic
at such a prospect as he would about an
arrangement enabling him to kill at least
three birds with one stone —that is, to
secure unlimited raw products from us. pay
what he has to pay with goods made from
them, and while doing so keep his still-
hated enemies industrially weak. The present
embarrassment of Germany, owing toi the com-
pulsory Freetrade with which it is afflicted,
should be enough, by itself, to put Aus-
tralian politicians on the ricrht track. But
as there is no League of Nations in the
world of Commerce it will be necessary to
take defensive steps at once. The intense
bombardment of our industries witn nun
goods is timed for the minute Internationa
Law permits.
[Written to express the opinions of The Bulletin
by J. B. Dailey, 214 George-street, Sydney, j
THE LANG OF BOTTOMLESS-PIT
FINANCE.
It is appropriate that the Queensland
Auditor-General’s report, covering the fourth
year of the Ryan Government in Queens-
land. should come to light just when Ryan
has fled from his own State disguised as a
Federal candidate, and is appealing to N. S.
Wales to help him to the Prime Minister-
ship. He has been in some sense a child
of bondage and misfortune. Like every other
State Premier, he was unable to issue notes
and make them legal tender, or to coin
money, or to use the funds of the Com-
monwealth Bank for Public Works pur-
poses. or to do anything extraordinary with
the funds of private banks and insurance
offices, these being under Federal control.
Then his career in office didn’t start till the
war was ten months old, and there were
serious war restrictions even on the float-
ing of voluntary loans. Men like Hughes,
Holman, Peake and Peacock were in office
both before and after the war outbreak.
They had a chance —especially Hughes, in
his Federal capacity—to show what they
could do in the way of boom before the
special restrictions fell on them. The luck-
less Ryan, on the other hand, was a re-
stricted man all his official life. Yet the
Auditor-General shows him as having done
his best, and these are some of his achieve-
ments :
(1) He contrived, despite all war limitations on
borrowing, to keep the loan expenditure up to an
average of £ 2,473,033 a year. Towards the end
he was doing better than that. On a population
basis this beat Holman's record badly, yet unkind
things have been said of Holman.
(2) There had been eight successive years when
the accounts were on the right side. When Ryan
got into his stride he had three successive deficits —
£834,933 in all. He added one of them to the per-
manent debt and left it to posterity. The other two
are an expensive overdraft.
(3) He was so grotesquely unable to foresee how
much money would be required that in his last
year £1,046,476 was “unforeseen expenditure”—
things that came on the Government by surprise be-
cause it didn’t know the pea-rifle was loaded.
(4) He suspended the payments into the poor little
sinking fund for the redemption of the public debt,
and thus got a little more cash to scatter.
(5) He found the railways paying working ex-
penses and interest and also showing a little profit.
He rolled up his sleeves and made a loss of
£508,244 in 1916; another of £737,388 in 1917;
and one of £1,023.008 in 1918. This was despite
increased charges. Then he put his back into it,
and in 1919 made the loss £1,421,328. There had
never before been anything like it done inside a
short 12 months. By that time he was borrowing
money at £5 13s. 6d. per cent, to build railways
and only earning 13s 9d. per cent, to pay the interest
with. Every mile of line was losing on an average
about £225 a year.
(6) His State enterprises at June. 1919, had, in
addition to the loans they started with. £534,738 of
overdraft.
(7) The Government had bought up 29 stations
and gone heavily into the sheep and ox trade. It
didn’t supply its butcher’s shops from these, but
sold the meat at the best profiteering prices. The
State shops were supplied with meat commandeered
from private owners. The stations were taken over in
exchange for bonds bearing only 4J per cent, in-
terest, though the Government can’t borrow below
£5 lSs. 6d. All the same, 12 of the 29 cheap-
money stations were run last year at a heavy loss,
and if the accounts were lumped the whole 29 showed
a loss.
(8) The State butcheries apparently showed a loss
despite the cheap commandeered meat. At least on
a turnover of £550,000 net sales exceeded purchases
by only about £19,500, which couldn’t possibly pay
interest on the capital invested. The butcheries
really do nothing remarkable in the way of supply-
ing cheap meat, for they cut out the cost of delivery
and make customers call for the food. There are
very few of them, and the number isn’t apparentlv
being increased; also they are by necessity in
thickly-peopled districts, for that kind of trade
can’t be done anywhere else.
(9) The lone State trawler caught fish which
cost £2226 to get and realised £136.
(10) The Assistance-to-Farmers Fund, after four
years’ working, was £47,550 out.
(11) The boasted and boosted State pub—one pub
to 670,500 square miles! —was in debt. The State
farms showed a small loss. The State produce agency
was in debt. The fish-dealing business (as apar'
from the trawler) showed: Receipts, £60,279; out-
goings, £70,017; loss, £9738. These new Stat"
enterprises were really pettifogging, one-man-and-a
barrow affairs, tremendously advertised, capable of
supplying billets to a lot of friends and of losing
much money, but not big enough to exercise any
influence on the life of the people.
(12) Having busted practically everything in
his grandiloquent and elephantine career Ryan had
to put on taxes to fill the gap. It was the only
thing he really understood. In the year to June,
1915, the State taxes were 28s. 2d. per inhabitant,
and the State paid its way, with a little over,
towards back debts. In the first Ryan year (1916)
the taxes were 425. 9d. per head; in 1917 they were
465. 9d. ; in 1918 they were 525. 2d. And then as
shortages and difficulties and bankrupt fisl: ■
shops accumulated taxes were shot up in 1919 to
80s. 9d. With things still growing worse and the
necessity looming to collect £5 or £6 per head
next year, it was wise to flee before State election
day and leave someone else to face the music.
* * ♦ *
And with all this nobody seemed any hap-
pier. In fact, everybody was more dis-
contented. grumpy and suspicions, more
ready to strike about little or nothing, to
lose wages, to have riots for no visible cause,
to batter middle-aged gentlemen and be shot
at by the police. People were encouraged
to leave off work and spend their time in
rapt admiration of the solitary State pub
and the trawler and the handful of bank-
rupt fish-shops and meat- and offal-shops,
and to talk of the good time coming when
these wonders would spread all over the
continent, with the wonderful Ryan pulling
the beer-pump and selling the prawns from
Cape York to Gape Leeuwin. Meanwhile,
the cost of living went up in an unpreceden-
ted fashion, and unemployed became so ram-
pant that Ryax’s last important acts were
a scheme for compelling Smith to find a job
for Jones even if Smith had no job and
Jones wouldn’t work, and a device for pen-
sioning all unemployed persons and work-
dodgers. Then Ryan fled from the terrace of
monsters he had created—the only State Min-
ister who bolted for a strange State in the
hopes of getting more support where he was
less known. And he asks for the Prime
Ministership—the Prime Minister being the
person who commands the note issue, the
compulsory loan business, the funds of the
Commonwealth Bank and the Treasury gold
reserve, and also has large chances to “take
over” the joint-stock banks and mutual as-
surance societies, and be 1000 State Ryans
rolled into one, and start 100,000 fish-shops
all over the land, and trawl on every salt
lagoon in the far interior. A feature of his
career was his curious neglect to “lay for”
the enormous foreign profiteer by starting
a few of the thousand highly-skilled indus-
tries which Queensland requires to enable it
to dispense with the importer, and his con-
centration on the small, comparatively harm-
less local man who, at least, spends his
profits in the country. This suggests several
possible explanations. One is that he was
never one-tenth so anxious to do good to the
community as to do harm to that section of
the community which didn’t vote for him.
Another is that he estimated himself (doubt-
less quite erroneously) as a person unfitted
to organise big things or skilled things, no
builder or constructor or statesman, but
qualified to take over ready-made meat and
fish businesses, and also qualified to run
them so long as there was Government money
to cover the losses.
[Written to express the opinions of The Bulletin
by James Edmond, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
CHINA IN THE MAKING.
Fkom Shanghai we went up the Yangtsze
in one of the fine China Merchant steamers.
Native-owned and native-built, she pro-
claimed China's coming emancipation from
foreign tutelage. But. there was an English
captain on the bridge.'lie illustrated China's
fatal deficiency, the lack of honest leader-
ship. Glowering up there alongside his
native helmsman, over the decks crammed
with squatting coolies, his white clothes like
the badge of his impeccable European vir-
tue, he was the little god of that complicated
machine, the Providence of a small cosmos
breasting the yellow tide of the Great River
at a speed of ten knots.
At Woosung we passed an imposing-look-
ing building on the foreshore. Our captain
east an inimical eye upon it, then spat
with emphasis into the water. The build-
ing housed the future officers of China’s
mercantile marine, the sons of one-time man-
darins who are being trained to supplant
our English captain. “They will never do
it.” he said; but at the next bend a long
slim cruiser slipped by. flying the five-
barred flag of the Republic. There were
no white men on her bridge, and though in
her wardroom there were probably too much
politics and peculation for good discipline,
she was known to be a fairly efficient fight-
ing machine.
In the narrow waters of the Huangpu,
which is part of the vast delta of the Mother
of Rivers, we had to fight our way through
a tangle of traffic —through fleets of cram-
med passenger sampans, past flotillas of
great junks with loads of bamboos fastened
flatly to each side by cables running under
and over the hull, past big four-masters with
high poops and low waists, past an enormous
fishing fleet, incredibly unseaworthy in ap-
pearance, but which rides out the typhoon
along the southern coast and whose annual
losses are never recorded in any Lloyd’s List.
The name of China’s great seaport is a
philological joke. It means “Approaching
the Sea.” Shanghai, to the consternation
of its foreign trading interests, is not ap-
proaching the sea. It is not even standing
still. It is rapidly retreating inland, and
will some day be an artificial port situated
on a dear-water canal. The large island of
Tsungming, at the mouth of the Yangtsze.
came up out of the sea within historic times.
It carries to-day a population as big as
N. S. Wales, and is steadily reaching out
hands to the mainland. Almost the whole
province of Iviangsu, with its area of 38.000
square miles and its population of 24,000,000.
is the creation of comparatively modern
times—geologically speaking. Like some
great living organism it is still growing. The
big and little islands along its coast are
creeping into its bosom. Lands once sur-
rounded by the sea now stand up out of the
flatness of rice- and rape-fields. Eight large
companies with purely Chinese capital have
been formed in the last nine years to assist
the farmer in this reclamation work. The
land is bought for about 245. an acre from
the Government, and embankments, irriga-
tion works and canals are built. The farmer
is given financial help for the first few years
and afterwards pays his rent, amounting
sometimes to 12s. an acre, in kind. Amaz
ingly fat dividends, sometimes of 50 per cent.,
are being paid by these companies, and about
1-J million acres of waste land have thus
been converted into cotton-fields. Somebody
has calculated that the sediment deposited
by the Yangtsze is sufficient to create annu-
ally a young continent in the Pacific a mile
square and 90 feet deep, but our skipper
says the estimate is too low.
We tie up at evening to a stone wharf
under the dim battlemented walls of a city.
Electric lamps spark out. They are equi-
distant one from another, and stretch in
perfect line along the waterfront. There
is only one explanation of this phenomenon.
This city is a treaty port. It has a foreign
concession. Some missionary has been mur-
dered hereabouts by the mob because lie
built a house with eaves that were not up-
turned. or a church with a tall blatant
steeple which upset the fengshui. the sacred
influence of the district. So the blessings
of civilisation are sent to the place and a
gunboat kept handy, and the church sticks
to itk elegant steeple. In the daytime we
would be able to see the long straight boule-
vard. the symmetrical rows of buildings,
the Sikh police force bullying the rickshaw-
pullers, and Japanese soldiers with fixed


bayonets guarding the Japanese conces-
sion, and Russian soldiers with fixed
bayonets guarding the Russian concession
and the British gunboat offshore guarding
the lot. But it is night, most fortunately,
and. we walk along the empty bund, down a
rectilinear and lifeless side-street closed by
an immense wooden gate set in the Chinese
wall. The gate swings open, and we descend
into the tumult, the smells, the savage lights,
the rich shadows and the clashing colors of
the native city. Mo.-t Chinese cities have
their special industry, for which they are
famous. One produces writing brushes, an-
other ink, another bankers, while one ex-
ports _ crystals of male babies’ urine as a
medicine for sore eyes. We never dis-
covered what was this city’s chief product.
It might be Romance —or only smells.
The river became narrower, but was still
a mighty stream. Each day we passed
walled cities set amongst cultivated plains
and each night we tied up under city walls
behind which hidden swarms hummed like
bees. At Hankow we anchored at the com-
mercial and industrial heart of China.
Hankow, Wuchang and Hanyang are the
“Five Towns” of China. They will some
day be the centre of an industrial system
which should make the “Five Towns” look
like a suburb. They have the three elements
of industrial supremacy—coal, iron and
labor. Hupeh province has a population of
35 millions. These three towns stand as
the hub of a universe of 400 millions. Great
roads which will eventually be great rail-
way routes meet at the Wu-Han towns from
all parts of the empire. One line, long
projected, will link up Hupeh with Burmah
and India; another is already creeping
hither from French Cochin China. Canton
and Peking will soon be joined by rail
through Hankow, and a line joining it to
the Trans-Siberia Railway and Europe only
awaits more settled times. Although Han-
kow lies 600 miles from the sea, merchant
vessels of considerable tonnage anchor in
the harbor and load the products of half a
dozen provinces.
The coal lies near to the iron. It is of
good quality, closely resembling the best
Australian, and coal, iron, lead, zinc, an-
timony and other metals are there in quan-
tities. The mines have been worked, prob-
ably for thousands of years, by scratching
the surface to the depth of a few feet. By
primitive means vast quantities of coal are
recovered, and sufficient iron to largely
supply Japan’s needs. What effect modern
machinery would have on the production can
only be guessed at.
Cheap coal gave Britain industrial king-
ship, which dear coal is already losing for
her. Coal is the inner meaning of the dip-
lomatic battle between America and Japan
over Shantung. If Japan obtains the con-
trol of China's coal she may inherit the
kingdom.
Outside Hanyang we climbed a hill. On
the other side of the river lay Wuchang,
within its wall, academic, mediaeval, beauti-
ful. Below us the river Han, crammed witli
native shipping and itself navigable for 6g<
miles, flowed into the Yangtsze. A fleet of
war-boats, for suppressing piracy, propelled
with oars and armed with small brass can-
non, lay against the bank. Hankow, a vast
pullulating slum, a drab monotony of low
curved roofs, spread from the further shore
to where the foreign concessions cut a sharp
rectangle out of chaos. Tumbledown stone
wharves, broken stairs and falling revet-
ments edge the river, as if a giant hand
were pushing the city from behind, so that
it crumbled slowly into the stream. Up
and down the broken steps went water-
carriers, bearing their leaky skins. From
the invisible streets rose the choking chant
of the barrow coolies. On the wharves men,
working in a sort of blind fury, were weav-
ing bamboo round mysterious bales of mer-
chandise, and on the Han others were poling
long rafts of timber for a wage of 12s. a
year.
It was a scene whose mixture of ruin
and industry, opulence and squalor, could be
witnessed in a thousand centres in the
Flowery Land. But it had new and strange
elements. Over the three cities, where
nearly two million people moiled and toiled,
hung a sinister pall. Below us, out of the
haze of steam and smoke, loomed the chim-
neys and cupolas of the great Hanyang iron-
works, a Chinese undertaking which is
rapidlv drifting into Japanese hands. Along-
side them were the smoke-stacks of the
Arsenal, where big guns and small arms
are manufactured for China’s internal and
eternal scrapping. On both sides of the
river cotton mills and silk filatures sent
up lesser plumes of smoke. The sharp
squeals of shunting engines mixed with the
hum and beat of factory machinery,. and
over the wide plain _ covered with Chinese
graves came the sobbing roar of the Peking
express. Out of the picturesque native
squalor modern industry poked a dingy
finger at the stainless sky. Order and plan
stood beside formless chaos. It was a
strange thing. 600 miles in the interior, in
the country which still greets the foreigner
even on the seacoast with the traditional
“Yang-kuei-tze.” to see this little hell of
the foreigner-devils’ making. There once
dwelt an enlightened viceroy in Wuchang.
He proclaimed to his astounded fellow-
countrymen the strange heresy that to de-
fend themselves against white men they must
use white men’s weapons. The heresy took
root and spread, and Hanyang is the
supremely marvellous result.
The polite insistence of a dapper little
officer in Chinese uniform recalled our atten-
tion to the hilltop on which we stood. lie
was a Japanese. The native dress failed to
conceal that fact, and his academic English
confirmed it. He wanted us to get down
from our eminence. Merely a formality, but
not to be avoided. They were laying the
foundations of fortifications on the hill. On
the far side we could see long rows of bare
backs rising and falling in deep trenches.
Khaki-clad sentries were posted here and
there. As we went down the hill into the
teeming plain we saw in our mind’s eye the
muzzles of big guns lifting black noses over
the city, questioning the right of tenure of
the foreign concessions wrung from China
in her weakness. As that tenure was built
on force, the Anamite gendarmes in th„
French settlement, the Cossack patrol in
the Russian, and the little British paddle-
wheel gunboat lying in the stream seemed
somewhat inadequate to defend it.
FENG-SHUI.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Soldiers and Borrowing.
Among the platitudes and afterthoughts at
the tail-end of its Federal election Pro-
gramme the Soldiers and Citizens I olitical
Federation put this item: —
Borrowing to be restricted and loans raised within
the Commonwealth as far as practicable.
There were 21 propositions or sub-proposi-
tions in front of it, so it was right down
among the debris where one naturally looks
for “discouragement of sin” or “promotion
of courtesy towards wild animals ’ and the
other sayings that mean nothing. The Sol-
diers and Citizens don’t say whether they
propose to “restrict” borrowing to
£100,000,006 a year or any other trifle like
that. Everybody, of course, restricts bor-
rowing—for instance, the Russian Bolshevik
Government’s paper shortage for the last
six months is said to have been rather over
three thousand million pounds, and borrow-
ing was naturally restricted to that amount.
The money-raising devices of the South Sea
Bubble concerns were restricted, but not
being restricted enough things happened.
And other instances might be quoted. The
Soldiers and Citizens’ proviso about raising
loans inside the Commonwealth “as far as
practicable” clearly provides for the possi-
bility that all the money in Australia and
Tasmania and the Possessions may not be
enough for them. Quite apart from war
debts, and quite apart from peace debts
represented by public works which pay their
way, Australia lias already hung on the necks
of the children a liability of £5,000,000 a
year on account of debts for which there is
nothing to show. The amount is likely to be
doubled and trebled as the old 34 per cent,
liabilities fall due and are renewed at on
or 6 per cent. The fact that a vast propor-
tion of the population doesn’t seem to feel
its degradation p.roves nothing except that
people can grow used to degradation and take
it as a matter of course. Probably a leper
in a community of lepers doesn’t know that
he is a leper, and the theory has been ad-
vanced that a dog isn’t aware that lie is a
dog, especially if he has fleas on him to dis-
tract his attention. The loan policy isn’t
even backed, or wasn’t in earlier days, by
the sordid plea of necessity. The world as
a whole has to get along without loans
from any other planet, and it one part of
the world can’t get along without loans
from another part the only excuse is special
misfortune, which is reasonable, or special
cowardice or laziness or lack of intelligence,
which is no reason at all. Australia, above
all places, can’t plead special misfortune.
Its early settlers left their war debts and
military burdens behind them when they
emigrated. They struck a country where all
the land was public property. They had
more than 100 years without war, and
almost without the cost of war preparation.
They were never invaded. They inherited
almost the richest and most-easily worked
gold deposits then known. Even the neces-
sity for building railways was only the
responsibility that every country had to face
about the same time. Therefore there remains
the explanation of ignorance or cowardice or
incapacity—not that the people were neces-
sarily unwilling to face the situation, "but
that no wretched politician had (or lias)
the grit to ask them to face it. Borrowing
really began when the first gold boom was
fading. Between 1853 and 1863 the gold
output dropped one-half, and then loans com-
menced in earnest because shoddy placemen
lacked the courage to suggest land-tax,*
income-tax, excise duties or stamp duties —
often they feared to suggest local rates.
The opium habit grew, till now the race
among men like Ryan, Hughes, Storey,
Holman and Theodore (all loan restric-
tors. though they seem more like boa-
constrictors for rapacity and unreason) to
borrow £10,000.000 more than each other is
breathless. Nobody pretends now that the
jag justified itself by creating prosperity,
for the struggles of the more indebted States
to keep out of insolvency are awful, and
the invention of new taxes becomes . a
misery. Nobody has the courage to say that
the future of the loan policy will be any
better than the past. All that is alleged is
that the drug-fiend has become so used to
his done that it is easiest to let him go on
till he becomes mad and dies. Australia
wants, above all things, a party which isn’t
sodden with drugs and cowardice —one that
will fight this election, and as many more
elections as may be necessary, on an
absolute non-borrowing programme, and
which, till it attains office, will stonewall
the Loan Estimates to the bitter end. The
.-widiers and Citizens combine might be that
party if it put stoppage of loans (except for
renewals) and reduction of old debts first
on its list. Instead it puts 22nd in the list
a scheme whereby it may float loans local p
at any rate of interest So long as money can
be got, and may then go to foreign profiteers
for more. It is no worse than the rest of
the parties, but as a new organisation with
its future to be made or marred it should
be better than the rest.
[James Edmond, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
—— ♦ 1
The “Six-Bob-a-Day Murderers.”
That crowd which wanted Australia to
abandon the war when things were at their
worst, and which blossomed forth at the
Perth Labor Conference and elsewhere, is
making a virtue of its infamy. Its pleas
are
(1) That Australia, did more than its share.
(2) That if it hadn’t sent so many “six-bob-a-day
murderers” to the Front, and spent so much on
them, it would now be able to pay them a bigger
war bonus.
(3) That the six-bob-a-day murderers deserve well
of their country, and if they stick to the crowd which
called them that they will get their bonus in cash —
not bonds.
What could be “more than its share”? Ans-
tralia was fighting for its life; and can a
country fight too hard for its life? If it is
true, and it seems to be, that Australian
valor just turned the scale at a time when
either the Allies or the enemy had to begin
that downhill slide which could only stop
at the bottom of perdition, then this coun-
try saved itself by the narrowest of mar-
gins. If the Allies had failed then, the
Junker would now be lording it In Sydney
and Melbourne, and there would be no elec-
tion because Parliament would be abolished.
The Hun probably had no ambition to take
the United Kingdom—only to plunder it.
That country offers no room for colonisa-
tion ; it is a small place at best, and a popu-
lation of 46,000,000 takes a lot of nigger-
driving. Canada was safe from Hun an-
nexation so long as the United States lasted,
for Uncle Sam dare not let a great new
conqueror settle on his borders, and would
sooner have taken the place himself. The
Union of South Africa is a rather poor
region, one-sixth the size of Australia, and
with a population mostly niggers. Aus-
tralia, on the other hand, was, and is, the
biggest chance in the market. It offered
plenty of room for colonisation. It would
be a pathetically easy matter to put down
any local resistance —a matter of seizing the
big cities (w r hich are all on the coast) ; the
factories (practically all on the coast) ; the
big coal deposits (mostly in sight of the
coast) ; the trunk line railways (easily
reachable from the coast). If Australia and
Maoriland did more than others it was be-
cause they had more at stake. They did
much : but they could not do too much. Had
they done less they would almost certainly
have done too little, and all their sacrifices
would have gone for nothing. They did just
enough to save themselves from hopeless
slavery; and if they had followed the advice
of the people who in those days called the
Diggers “six-bob-a-day murderers,” but now
pose as their dear friends, they would not
have saved themselves. They were im-
plored to commit suicide, and they had the
good sense to miss the chance. That the
men who urged them to do it should now
claim to be their friends because they re-
fused the invitation is simply sublime im-
pudence.
■ -♦
The Referendum.
It is W. M. Hughes’s misfortune that he
should have to ask for fresh Constitutional
powers before the exercise of his war powers
has been forgotten. For nearly five years
the Commonwealth was governed by a
National Ministry under a system which
gagged the press and coerced the public. Such
powers as the Government had are always
misused—the experience of Father O’Don-
nell in Ireland last week is only another
example of it. On the present occasion the
Nationalists are not after powers which will
enable them to censor public and private
utterances. But an immense number of elec-
tors everywhere are what the Greeks called
idiot, ai: they neither perform any public
duties nor do they want to. and they take
no interest in public affairs. This class,
during the war, accepted the exasperating
activities of Hughes’s minions as unavoid-
able irritants. In the intervals they yearned,
in a vague manner, for the freedom which
they had lost. Now they have got it, and
many of them are too disinterested or too in-
dolent to distinguish between the tyranny of
the past and the needed control of the future.
No wonder Hughes, in his Bendigo speecii
last Thursday, stressed, with a note almost
of pathos in his voice, that he is not asking
for much—-just a little power for a very little
while. He is opposed in his aim not only
by the natural unwillingness of the average
elector to take a chance, but by the past mis-
takes, gauclieries and arrogances of his own
officials. Nevertheless, if he does not get the
powers he is asking for, practically the whole
of his programme falls to pieces. Take the
matter of industrial unicest, the strike tend-
ency, the movement towards direct action —
the chief enemy of production, of national
solvency and even safety. It is not an intra-
state menace. It is as fluid as an influenza
epidemic. It appears in many forms,
ranging from that divine discontent, without
which there can be no progi'ess. down to
anarchy which may be the work of Inter-
nationalists. or of ‘ German “ War-after-the-
War” propagandists. One form may be
onerating in Melbourne in the direction of
peace and production: another in Darwin
in the cause of blither and Bolshevism. No
one State can check or guide the disease,
or natural movement, or whatever it is.
There would have been no settlement of the
last transport strike in England if it had
had to be done by counties; and the Big
Strike will never be settled sectionally if it
arrives here. Similarly the conditions which
lead up to general strikes can never be
banished by the States acting independently.
Unity of control is obviously the first essen-
tial, wdiether the principle is applied to pre-
ventive measures against disease, or to
profiteering, or to the quelling of a revolu-
tion.
[J. B. Dailey, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
—♦
Grease.
Soap is a needless commodity, for any num-
ber of people get on without it; but it is a
gentlemanly superstition. The makers of
soap, aided by the artists in candles, use
a quarter of this country’s tallow, the other
three-quarters being exported. The article
fetches a huge price now in Europe—£Bs
per ton, against £2B five years ago—which is
a good thing, for it supplies this country
with more money to pay interest on foreign
debts and meet its bills for foreign fluff. But
the rise in price is local also and pushes up
the cost of locally-made soap and candles.
Australia wants some of its tallow to be
cheap for use here and the rest to be dashed
dear —£7000 a ton if possible—for sale
abroad. The Court has decided to include
tallow, soap and candles among fixed-price
goods, and if the price of tallow is reduced
below the fox’eign figure-' it will presumably
all go abroad. It is hardly possible to fix
the export price, for it would be a mad busi-
ness to make Australians sell grease to people
outside for, say. £4O if these people were
yearning to give £B5. So local industries
will presumably stop unless the State seizes
enough tallow at a low fixed price to keep
them going, and then there will be the diffi-
culty of making every producer contribute
his fair .share and no more of the low-priced
article. It is a serious matter to spoil one
of our few chances to take the foreigner in.
and a much more serious one to wreck a local
industry and go a step further back to the
aboriginal or raw-material-producing stage of
life. An export duty on tallow might help
to balance things, but the really big idea
would be to put up enough factories to use
the entire local output, prohibit the export of
tallow, and export soap instead. The boiler-
down of animals couldn’t be expected to live
on the £2B 10s. a ton of a few year’s ago,
but if he got £45 or £5O instead of the pre-
sent £B5 10s. he ought to make a crust. And
he would have a reasonably-assured market
under local control, whereas, if things are
allowed to drift, the local market based on
local industry may be destroyed by high
prices, and then the bottom may fall out of
the foreign one as it has done before. When
Russia leaves off burning towns in the cause
of liberty and has time for a little steady
work, the tallow boom may see its finish.
The Speck’s Balance-Sheet.
Treasurer Lewis winds up the financial
year with £62,000 on the wrong side of the
Tasmanian ledger. Added to the £69,000
debit balance with which he started, this
gives him £131,000 of leeway to make up.
If a Treasurer admitted that things looked
serious he would be expected to do some-
thing disagreeable; and as no vote-hunting
Treasurer wants to do that, Lewis runs on
cheerfully : “Though the actual deficiency is
£37,000 more than I expected, it is more
than accounted for by two items alone, rail-
way re-classification and the influenza epi-
demic.” But the railway re-classification,
at any rate, has been looming for three or
four years, and was so obviously inevitable
that a Treasurer who failed to make some
sort of provision for it merely draws atten-
tion to his own negligence by mentioning it.
As for next year, another £lOO,OOO of revenue
is “confidently anticipated,” and by “the
exercise of the greatest prudence” it is hoped
to go only £lO,OOO to the bad. Beyond a
possibly slight readjustment of some of the
anomalies in income-tax, from which it is
doubtful if any revenue will be gained,
nothing is to be done to stop the drift. The
Ministry seems to throw up its hands feebly
and say that matters have gone beyond it.
Some day, perhaps, the Hydro-Electric De-
partment may come to the rescue. It
hasn’t yet quite managed to pay working
exes, and interest, but it is the Lee-Lewis
crowd's one and only hope, though hardly
three years ago the same crowd was
calling the Earle Government everything
from an ass to a bushranger for committing
the State to such “unwarranted extrava-
gance.” However, as the public debt is now
fifteen and a quarter millions, and the
interest bill has increased by over £200,000
a year since 1913, and as the sale of Crown
lands is a fast-diminishing item, and as the
island’s 600 miles of railway continue to
show a loss of ever £lOO.OOO a year, if tin'
Hydro-Electric Department doesn’t hasten
to the rescue pretty quick Tasmania will be
so deeply in pawn that it will end up as first
prize in a Tattersall sweep.
“More Royalist than the King.”
In the past week or two various meetings
have passed resolutions in support of “the
international recognition of the Republic of
Ireland, established by the army of the said
Republic in Dublin on Easter Monday, 1916,
and solemnly ratified by the representatives
of the Irish people constitutionally elected
on December 14. 1918.” No doubt they
mean well; but probably nine Irishmen out
of ten in Ireland would rather we left their
affairs alone at the present delicate juncture.
The Irish who don’t live in Ireland are, how-
ever. traditionally more Irish than the Irish
who do. They can afford to be. The thing
is seen in operation in the humble sphere
of the prize-ring : the backers and barrackers
are usually a good deal more bloodthirsty
than the principals.' Everyone is a Home
Ruler in one form or another nowadays. But
how many responsible persons believe in the
practicability of an Irish Republic ? Swift
in the Drapier’s Letters put the case,
pro and con., in two sentences close on
200 years ago: “For in reason all govern-
ment without the consent of the governed
is slavery. But. in fact, 11 men well
armed will certainly subdue one single man
in his shirt.” Ireland is still the single
man in his shirt. The English can’t afford
to grant it complete independence for tacti-
cal reasons; or, anyhow, England believes
that such is the case, which, for all essen-
tial purposes, is the same thing. Short of
that the English appear ready to concede
almost anything. The wrongs of the past
have been appalling. But an honest effort
has been made to right them. The legacy of
hate, from which the whole English-speaking
world is still suffering more or less, is due
neither to a remembrance of the Rebellion
of ’9B nor to the Penal Laws nor to any-
thing else so much as to the hundreds of thou-
sands of Irishmen who have been driven out
of their country in the past century by rotten
land laws. Gladstone’s first Land Act
showed the way; and to-day the Irishman
on the land, to put it mildly, has nothing
much to complain about. The Frenchman
had to go through a bloody revolution, the
Russian is still fighting desperately, for what
the Irish peasants have secured out of the
pockets of their one-tiffie oppressors. Modern
Ireland is a land of well-to-do farmers who
own their holdings; of cities and towns the
prosperity of which stagger the visitor just
arrived from England; of great manufac-
tures. On the material side the whole frame-
work for the building of a revolution has
been removed. So much so that the late
Convention went within an ace of succeed-
ing. Had the Ulsterites and ' Nationalists
not split on the fiscal question-—and on sec-
tional as distinguished from national grounds
at that —the trouble which has raged for so
many months might never have been. At
the time of the Convention, as now, few
level-headed Irishmen with a stake in the
country wanted a clean break with the Bri-
tish Empire. And no one except lunatics
or criminals wanted a civil wax*. It is a


S
>5
OV
m
jpjl
w»
eg*
.
o -.
0 J
*)
fsd
The Premier Hotel of Australia.
Renovated from Roof to Basement.
SYDNEY.
NEW FEATURES
Extension of Winter Gar-
den.
New Sixth Floor.
New Fireproof Flat Con-
crete Roof.
New Rooms with Private
B. ths.
New Furnishings.
ATTRACTIVE SPECIALTIES
Comfort and Quietness. Every
Convenience and Quick Service.
Automatic Telephones in every
Room. Private Safe Deposit.
Stenographer and Private Office
for use of Guests.
Choice of Rating. Room and
Breakfast or Full Board.
Meals—a la Carte or Table d'hote.
Apply Manager. WHAT WE ADVERTISE WE SEPPLY.
JML
x . cn \ m
tmmm
-\-y-
-mmi
giwfctft
c c^
Y/fnier Garden
L ~ j
matter of business. Dominion Home Rule,
peacefully attained, must mean such a boom
for Ireland as no old-world country has had
in centuries: its fisheries, mines and great
rivers are fairly clamoring for energetic de-
velopment. And all Europe is its eager
customer for primary products. Separation
—which can only come, if it ever does, after
an ocean of blood has been spilt—will repre-
sent nothing but ruin to those who remain
iu Ireland, however inspiring it may be to
Hibernians on the other side of the world.
There is the spiritual aspect—lreland’s
honorable desire to be free. But if the Irish
patriots of Parnell’s day, of the Home Rule
Act of 1914 and of the Convention were able
to find satisfaction in a compromise, it hardly
seems in place for Australians to talk maxi-
malism. In fact, to all but the extremists of
Erin it must look like blatant impertinence.
Taxing Tatt.’s.
In the history of civilised government there
can be nothing either more hypocritic or more
farcical than the Federal Government’s at-
titude towards Tattersall’s sweep. Years
ago the gamble was declared illegal by all
the State Governments outside Tasmania,
where it is domiciled; and when the Federal
Government took over postal business it
sternly resolved to confiscate all letters ad-
dressed to the promoter. Apparently there
was in those days an honest desire to kill
the “consultation” business; but the pro-
tection afforded by Tasmania enabled the
concern to go on flourishing in the face of
the Postmaster-General. Nor did the soul
of the nation squirm. Instead, the lottery
was regarded as supplying a comparatively
harmless want, rather than creating a per-
nicious appetite. Little by little, therefore,
the State Governments toned down their
animosity and ceased to make war on its un-
advertised means of supply. The Federal
G.P.0., however, still persisted in its stern
assertion of Tatt.’s wickedness by refusing
to deliver letters addressed to the ln
the official sight of the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment the sweep remained an evil, like
burglary or embezzlement, and a thing to
be treated as a punishable offence. _ But
there it was —in Hobart! And being a
great money-making institution, the Com-
monwealth authorities itched to annex a
portion of the stream that flowed towards
it. So they passed an Act, which came into
force on January 1 last, commandeering 13
per cent, of all prize-money distributed by
the people whom they continued to solemnly
declare to be conducting an unlawful and
discreditable business. It was as though the
Federal Government had required the head-
master of a two-up school to hand over
periodically a percentage of the money that
passes through his hands. The Government
could, of course, have doomed Tatt.’s by im-
posing a tax of 75 per cent, on the Ist,
2nd and 3rd prizes. But it had no wish to
slay its illegal accomplice ; therefore it spread
its" rapacity over the whole scale of prizes,
and robbed the poor man, whilst merely
taxing the rich ; for the winner of a £•>
prize vets £4 75., his bit of “luck being
sweated in the same proportion as that ot
the Ist prize-winner whose £5OOO is reduced
to £4350.
[Edmund Fisher, Old Exchange, Melbourne.]
♦
Concerning the Australian Stage.
In the last few weeks there have been a
“better morals” strike among the chorus
girls of New York and a proposal to intro-
duce the Wiiitley scheme in the London
theatres. Previously the N.Y. chorister had
wrested 30 dollars a week from the mana-
gers (out of this she pays for most of hei
stage clothes and gets nothing during re-
hearsals), and the London girls had secured
a minimum of £3 a week in work and x 2
a week when rehearsing. The modest aim
of the “morals” strikers of America is to
get their stage clothes paid for and half-pay
during rehearsals —a practice which will
allow the average girl about £0 a week clear,
or the equivalent of from £3 to £4 here.
Such is the position in conservative London
and in trust-ridden New York. In demo-
cratic Australia recently there was a move-
ment to form an Actors’ Union. The oppo-
sition to it was almost as solid amongst the
better-paid actors and actresses as it was
on the part of the managements. In tact,
the managements had no occasion to inter-
fere: their case was put with flunkey-like
eagerness by short-sighted mummers. So
the Australian chorus achieves another dis-
tinction. It lias long been famed for its in-
telligence and tunefulness. It promises also
to be, if it isn’t already, the most sweated
in any English-speaking country. The re-
presentative of the N. York strikers said:
“We want more money. It is next to im-
possible for a girl to work in chorus without
leading a life of shame. It is altogether im-
possible for her to work without being in-
sulted.” An extra 30s. will not keep every-
body moral, since all do not desire to be
moral; but it will certainly do a lot to keep
those on the straight path who wish to re-
main there. The leaders of the profession
have recognised this to such purpose abroad
that in New York extravagantly-paid stars
like Marie Dressler, and in London Syd-
ney Valentine and Lilian Braithwaite,
are keen barrackers for theatrical unionism.
Is it easy or even possible for an Australian
chorus-girl who does not live at home to
maintain herself and dress and travel on her
present regular wage? If not, the case
for stage unionism in Australia needs
no further argument. And even if the posi-
tion of the humbler members of the profesh
were entirely satisfactory, all ranks need to
combine with other objects in view.
Laberius, having been forced by C*®SAR to
play in one of his own dramas, remarked
bitterly; “I left my home this morning a
Roman knight, I return to it an infamous
stage player—and this at the close of an
honorable 60 years!” There is still a
taint on the calling. The cure is that it
should be organised not only industrially
but ethically, like medicine and the Bar. To
that end it should be unionised under the
guidance of its most eminent members.
“No Politicians Need Apply.”
A CRY for administrators who know their
job :
“Hawk” (B. 23/10,/’l9) asks for a little more
business management in connection with the govern-
ing of this sadly indebted continent. (Cheers.) He
also requests that there shall be “no amateur govern-
ment, the Treasurer to be a qualified accountant, and
the Minister for Works to have a successful business
record.” (More cheers.) I agree with “Hawk” ; but
as a political reformer he does not go far enough.
For years this huge slice of the
best part of the earth’s surface
has been mismanaged and
pawned by a host of untrained
incompetents. Think of the
businesses conducted b y
shrewd, trained men that have
wobbled and got up again, and
tottered again before becom-
ing finally steady. How would
they have got on had their
managei-s just strayed in from
a dog-fight to carry on until
thrown out again? Would
The Bulletin look as well if
it had been “dragged up”
[Percy Leason, 24 Bond-street, Sydney.]
STILL MAKING THE PAGE.
“Profiteering must be dealt with effectively and without delay.”— W. M. Hughes in his policy speech.
like the country it barracks for? Can you
see the election—Tim Bulletin election, with
two pork-butchers standing for editor? Can you
see the whole staff changed every two or three
years by vote and the paper running smoothly?
Imagine it! The head pork-butcher as editor, choos-
ing his staff from among the carpenters, plumbers,
land-agents, miners and barmen elected. Bill Jobb,
the plumber, appointed chief cartoonist, while Mi.
Strike, the miner, took over the Red Page, and the
carpenter became the office poet, and the W ild Cat
portfolio was entrusted to the barber! It sounds
funny, but it is really a very ordinary and sane
idea. Surely if a continent can be run on such
lines, a paper or a pub could be run just as well.
Papers and pubs are not always as large as con-
tinents. Of course the plumbers, the butchers and
the bakers would do their best to bring the paper
out. They would probably read up the History of
How to Bring out a Paper, and the editor might
even go to England to study papers. 'Hie head car-
toonist would buy “On the Hop” and Low's “Billy
Book,” and be interviewed now and again on the
art of cartooning. The Wild Cat man would buy a
book on figures. They would all strive to do their
jobs well, and would earn some credit for their
efforts. Yet, although they might carpenter well
and sell meat like geniuses, one could hardly expect
them to be journalists ; and if the paper in the end,
after many changes of Government, went to the
wall, you could not blame the pork-butcher or the
baker. They got their jobs by popular votes. The
fault would rest with the people who ordered their
paper to be edited ar.d written and published ay
butchers and bakers. So stands Australia, edited anti
art edited, published and printed by men incom-
petent for those jobs. And yet that which reads
ridiculous about a paper is read daily, year in and
year out, about this land in which we live, and
is read without a smile. If we had business experts
to handle the big things they know how to handle,
and have made it their business in life to handl?,
then we might get on. Politicians should go back
to their boots or sausages. They can probably make
sausages better than a trained business man, and so
they should (I shall be very pleased to buy the’r
sausages) ; but a trained business man can probably,
and very probably, manage a country better thai
a sausage manufacturer —and so he should. Aus-
tralia is shrieking for business management, not
sausages, at present. So let us try a change, and
in the meantime teach our children to say, “Please
God, save Australia,” until the change comes.
The race for the soldiers’ vote is fairly
on. Hughes offers £25,000,000 in non-nego-
tiable bonds, and promises that under certain
circumstances they will be cashed before
maturity; also, that the first instalment of
our Hun indemnity will be devoted to paying
them. This is the third mortgage on the
Hun’s indemnity—which he won’t pay if he
can dodge it. It is pawned (1) to reduce the
war debt; (2) as a soldiers’ pension fund;
(3) as a soldiers’ gratuity fund. Also, we
owe much more than that first instalment to
the British Government for maintenance of
our soldiers, and J. Bull expects it. In fact,
Australia’s sluggishness about that payment
has already been mentioned by the Chancellor
of the Exchequer. Ryan, of course, goes
one better than Hughes, and promises cash,
though he doesn’t hint how he will get the
blood out of the stone. Incited by lum. some
of the soldiers begin to demand cash. As the
election is some time off Hughes_may have
to raise his bid; but Ryan, who is the sort
of man to promise £lOOO a head and a front
seat in the Kingdom of Heaven, and who has
a larger cheek to put his tongue into, will
probably beat him at that game. It is quite
an interesting race.
The gossip of the Lobbies:—
Labor counts on capturing several Reps, seats.
Hindmarsh (S.A.) is considered sure, and the par tv.
is gambling on the size of veteran Archibald’s defier,
when the numbers go up. Also Story, the silent
Nationalist for Boothby. is not expected to be “con-
tinued in our next,” though he may just command
the margin that will make him a serial. In West
ralia every Fremantle Liberal will have to poll '.<>
save Burchell from extinction, and the much mo;-
worthy Heitmann will have a close run in Kalgoorlie.
In Victoria Fawkner is reckoned to be the only
electorate within reach, but in the Ha. State Labori.es
like their chances of winning Nepean and even
changing the political color of Ilia war ra and Riveriiu.
In Bananaland Bamford (Herbert) and Bailey (Ox-
ley) are supposed to be trembling, and Corser’s whis-
kers may yet be replaced by a clean-shave from Wide
Bay. The retirement of the aged and respected
Spence from Darwin (Tas.) promises Ryan-Tudor
another supporter, but the Kink will have to fight
hard for his “welcome home” in Denison. Laird
Smith, the present member, may be keeping su?
picious political company, but many democrats Would
prefer him to the riotous O’Malley. On the other
hand, Labor will inevitably lose without missing the
services of Corboy in Swan, and elsewhere it may
have to surrender one or two fortresses. .On the last
election figures Considine (Broken Hill), Nieholls
(Macquarie), and Finlavson (Brisbane) should find
it difficult to keep the pink flag flying. But the
position in the mining town is not as favorable now
for Labor, which was only presented with the seat
at last election through one of Hughes’s “smart”
blunders.
Hamilton Ppectatob has been sordid
enough to take money for printing this gem
“to the sad memory of dear little Percy’’:—
He never suffered, he never cried,
But into a dam he slipped and died.
Hughes, who seems less original than he
used to be, has stated several times that he
is going in for “a broad progressive policy.”
Almost every politician says that. The mis-
fortune is that very broad things don’t pro-
gress much, which is one reason why dredges
move slowly at sea and are very sinkable.
A long, sharp policy, narrow in the expendi-
ture, would be a change.
Anticipating the possibility of persons who
carry on business under a fancy name
attempting to evade the Factory Law, the
Victorian Act provides for prosecuting tin*
responsible parties under their trade name.
So it came about that “The Chocolate Bowl”
was before the city magistrates in Melbourne
the other day for underpaying a girl em-
ployee, and was fined.
The party machine is still supreme out-
side Parliament; but members themselves
are growing rebellious. In Vic. the other
night Lawson had to reprimand Bayles for
having opinions of his own, and several
times lately the Government has had to
make a vague promise and then rush an
adjournment to avoid a smash. In S. A us.
the smash came: on a Government measure,
relating to public servants and arbitration,
the House said the Ministry was all wrong.
And Peake, recognising that a Cabinet can't
always think the same as a majority in the
House, remarked that the thing would be
fixed up as the House wanted it, and went
on his way. And in N. S. Wales, though
the Government cracks its whip desperately,
member after member has been guilty of a
little honest thinking and talking. A little
more of this, and the elective Ministry will
happen; for there won’t be any justification
for a Party Government if it doesn't go out
when it is beaten.
When 0.8.U.’s demand that “the workers”
shall get the whole value of their output, it
is worth while to note that there is a very
large class of men whose work was worth,
or at least brought in, £5,061,070 last year
while they were paid £9,950,083. The “per-
manent and reproductive” works of the
States were £4,898,013 short of earning their
keep find the interest on the loans with which
they were constructed. There isn’t a State
in which the term “reproductive” isn’t a
shirking lie. It is the biggest lie in Queens-
land with a deficit of £1,602.795. and
the second biggest lie in N. S. Wales,
where the works fall £1,167,987 short of
being reproductive; but it is a lie everywhere.
And the most repulsive feature of the
business of trickery and deception is the poli-
tician who gains a name for enterprise and
a reputatioh for providing the people with
work out of the goodness of his heart by
rushing along loan enterprises and leaving
bills of this sort to posterity. When in
addition he specialises in philanthropy he :is
a whited sepulchre as well.
A number of things led up to a grim joke
last, week: —
(1) It was announced that the present drought in
N. S. Wales would probably prove the worst since
rai n-records were extended far enough to make com-
parison possible.
(2) It was stated that the Child Maintenance Law
(substituted for the 775. per week minimum wage)
wouldn’t apply to farmers. The previous award
never applied either. Wheat-growing (for export
at least) has to be a sweated industry. The manu-
facturer pays all awards.
(3) The Minister for Lands stated that the
farmers were to be allowed a moratorium. The
manufacturer never gets a moratorium.
(4) The Minister announced that £1,000,000 was
to l e “set apart” to help the farmers; and
(5) Something was said about reduced railway
charges to the farmer whose produce is already
carried at less than half cost.
Then the joke was cracked : the 8. M.
Hehald, whose 1 capacity for being inoppor-
tune amounts to genius, selected the day of
the Minister’s announcement to publish an
article in its best anti-manufacturing and
pro-importing style to the effect that the pur-
suit of drought-stricken jobs is this coun-
try’s natural destiny.


Would You
Set a Boy to Fig'Ht a Grown Man?
NO It wouldn't be fair.
An.! yet some people expect the youthful Australian
Jron aiul Steel Industry to compete on even terms
against (he giant enterprises of Europe and America.
Wlier. the Australian Industry is full-grown it will
he able to stand up against the competition of the
wf.rld—on equal terms, or anything like equal terms,
it fears no competitor.
But. at present the terms are not equal. The Aus-
tralian Industry is young and is heavily handicapped
—is paying high wages—heavy transport charges—
high prices for materials—and it has only a com-
paratively small output.
The Australian Iron and Steel Industry wants to
be allowed to work its hardest tor the people and
tor the future of Australia. people and
to » he l P * > . llild Australia into a great nation
—to make Australia self-reliant and self-supporting
to make Australia safe from attack from without
to make plenty of employment tor Australian
EVERY ENGINEER IN AUSTRALIA
•» “ sk '-'*l to assist to build up this Industry by using nothing but
AUSTRALIAN IRON AND
which has been proved equal to that made in any part of the world.
WILL, YOU HELP?
Australian Steel for Australian WorKshops
POLITICAL
POINTS
A motion to cut down the State Gov.’s
salary, meant as a direction that his Ex-
crescency should be dispensed with, w r as only
defeated in the W.A. Assembly by the cast-
ing vote of the chairman. Why the Cabinet
rallied up its followers in defence of the
small local viceroy passes understanding.
The saving would have been £lO,OOO a year
or more, and a State which is stumbling to
its seventh or eighth consecutive shortage
and is now nearly a whole year’s income to
the bad, can’t despise small savings. Also,
there is nothing gained by being a freak.
The other two Federations of the Empire
import one Excellency apiece; the Gov.-
General. Cheap, unpretentious local men
do any State work that is necessary. Aus-
tralia with its seven full-blown pomps and
vanities is the shabby-genteel family or over-
dressed female of the clan —the female with
much bosom who wears seven paste neck-
laces at once to create an impression.
Dismal people who seem to think they
know are saying that this is to be N.S.W.’s
record drought-
worse than 11118 and
1915 (if that is pos-
sible, seeing that 1915
showed a 41-bushel
wheat crop), and
1912, and 1908, and
1905, but perhaps not
worse than 1908,
when the yield was 1]
bushel to the acre.
There are so many
horses entered for the
Dry Cup in the Ma
State that if 1920
wins it will be indeed
a parched animal.
Meanwhile the putting
of returned soldiers on
the land progresses
with unabated vigor,
and money is still be-
ing borrowed at G p.e.
or thereabouts to push
out where drought is
still more frequent.
J.B. HAYES. M.H.A.,
Tas. Minister of
Works and Hydro-
Electric Dept.
Hughes spent a couple of days preparing
his Bendigo oration, and Watt was the only
Minister he consulted in regard to it.
Hughes's policy speech at Bendigo was
like the speech of every other man who
leads a coalition at a general electiou alter
the first purpose of the coalition is served.
How can a Premier put forward a respect-
able policy that will appeal alike to the Pro-
tectionist and the Freetrader, the Radical
aud the Tory, the Socialist and the Re-
actionary such as came together to “win
the war” —Josiah Thomas and Bruce Smith,
Willie Kelly and W. G. Spence, J. M.
Chanter and Joe Cook? The result, when it
came to a policy speech, was exactly what
had to be expected—brave words and swift
evasions; vague promises that mean just
what the commentator wants them to mean ;
commissions to inquire where Hughes knows
he dare not act. The position is the same
as it was in England when Lloyd George
went to the country; only Lloyd George,
being on the spot, had the advantage of go-
ing to the ballot while the electors were still
hooraying. And the result will be the same.
That is to say, the election will answer no
question of public policy. It will settle no-
thing except whether Hughes or Ryan shall
be Prime Minister. What will hapnen if
Hughes gets the majority nobody knows:
And nobody knows what will happen if
Ryan wins. This is called Government by
the People.
Britain lias been reduced to borrowing
about £60,000,000 in the United States at
oi per cent, to pay off old liabilities. When
[Hugh McCrae, Hawthorn, Vie.]
“WOODMAN, DO NOT SPARE THAT
TREE!"
the debt was contracted it represented about
£53,000,000. but that disastrous thing called
exchange makes it more now. When the
Old Man in London is himself financing at
this rate, those Australian politicians who
talk so glibly about raising the wind from
him to build the railway from Kangabroke
to Wallaruin, where it doesn’t rain, may ex-
pect a cold reception. And if they don’t ge,t
it they will deserve it, which is worse.
The impertinence of these members of Par-
liament ! Cocks, a very successful busi-
ness man, represents some of the Northern
Sydney suburbs. The other night, on a
purely business matter, he dared to express
opinions that weren’t exactly those which
Ministers wanted. Whereupon James, who
happened to be, as it is called, in charge of
the House at the time, flung across at Cocks
the remark or threat—threat probably—that
the National party could do without Cocks.
In a properly organised democracy very care-
ful observation would be made of James,
and if he lived up to his remark the democ-
racy would certainly do without him. A
man who wants to shut the mouth of the
expert in the House whenever bis opinion
doesn’t suit the Government is a public
danger.
Prime Minister Hughes made two notable
statements at Bendigo. One was that the
Government has at last realised this to be a
cotton country and will pay a minimum price
for cotton for three years. The term isn’t
long enough, but it is something. The other
was that since the unions had been driven
to consent to piecework at the Federal dock-
yards. wages, formerly £4 6s. per week, had
ranged from £5 6s. to £ll. and good work
had been done with a minimum of trouble.
To tlie professional saver of the poor and
downtrodden, who organises strikes, and thus
works his way into Parliament, this sort of
thing is disgusting. A skilled artisan earn-
ing high wages refuses to be saved by a man
without a trade who lives on his jaw.
The Theodore (late Ryan) Queensland
Government practises a bang-crash kind of
reform, which consists in enacting that This
Must Be. without saying or knowing how.
Its latest is a bill fixing the rent of dwell-
ings (not offices and warehouses) at a maxi-
mum of 10 p.c., out of which the owner must
pay depreciation, repairs, Federal and State
and local taxes, insurance and bad debts;
also agents’ swindles and commission if he
(or she) lacks the courage to collect from
tenants possibly bigger and more abusive
than himself. That will often mean no
more than a net 5 per cent., and better than
that can be got out of Government securities
which are free of Federal income-tax, are
backed by the best security w« have, and are
attended with no difficulty about collection
The result is likely to be a final slump iii
house-building except of the compulsory
variety. No man except the sort that would
buy a shindy if he hadn’t one of his own
is likely to put up a row of small tenements
and fight the occupants for his rent every
Monday morning if he can get better terms
without any exertion. The borrowing Gov-
ernments by their competition push up the
price of money higher and higher; and then
stand on it clumsily in the hope of keeping it
down.
The N.S.W. Coal Miners’ Federation has
decided that “the export of certain neces-
sary commodities” should be stopped till
prices go down. Which is the usual half-
measure, and the wrong half. These
things have to go out to pay for
the unnecessary commodities that
come in. The Coal Federation
should put it that when the export
of a commodity of which we send
out, say, £500,000 worth a year is
prohibited to cheapen the local sup-
ply, the import of one of at least
the same value, or, if possible, a
bigger value, should be prohibited
also. And the importation should
be stopped first.
Vic. Statist Laughton’s latest re-
turn, showing the position of land-
settlement to-day as against that
of pre-war times, is an enormously
important document, yet it has re-
ceived about as much notice as the
first fly of summer. Settlement in
hoMings up to 2000 acres has pro-
gressed at the rate of about 1000
new establishments a year since
1913. (This, of course, is for
Laughton’s own State.) Yet cul-
tivation on 70,000 of such holdings
is less by some thousands acres
than it was on the 65,000 similar
blocks occupied in 1913; and for
the whole State the total cultivated
area is now 200,000 acres less
than it was in that year. Apart
from the fact that wheat-growing
is under an appalling handicap so
long as we must rely on distant foreign
markets, these depressing figures suggest that
the Department of Agriculture is a dismal
failure.
If the hide of the average profiteering
“climber” who buys his way into a vis-
countcv or an earldom were not so tough,
he would get a shrinking feeling from the
fact that A. J. Balfour refused a peerage
the other day on retiring from the Foreign
Office. The swarm of earls that Lloyd
George recently introduced into Britain’s un-
blessed “aristocracy” has so cheapened the
peerage that no plain mister of distinction
wants to be in it. But if rich, cultured men
of Balfour’s stamp are to remain unpeered,
how absurd becomes the system of “ennob-
ling” the bloated Jews, brewers and aliens
who subscribe large lump sums to political
party funds! Of course the “ennobling”
wouldn t really matter if it didn’t also create
an hereditary legislator. The contemptible
eldest son of a brainless waster who in-
herited the title from a roguish financier
might be a “nobleman” and nobody be much
the. worse; but when he has the right to
say Ao to the people’s Yes it is a different
matter.
Bendigo, at present represented in the
Commonwealth Parliament by Hughes, is
not. to be contested by the Farmers’ Union.
-Lius conclusion has not been reached by the
umon because of any reverence it feels for
the little man with the lively tongue. It is
simply because the F.U. reckons it hasn’t a
hope, the rural voters in the electorate num-
o-rAon ? n about 0000, as against some
~<.ooo m the more closely-populated parts.
Under a better system, those 8000 men
would be entitled to say that they prefer
•Jones above all others, and if they can’t
have Jones they will put up with Smith—
or Hughes. Some day in the not-far-
distant future all electors may be required
to put themselves on one of perhaps 20 lists
lirneli list will consist of men and women
who have as nearly as possible the same
interests, and each list will have its own
members. There is not much sense in for
ever disfranchising a Labor man because he
lives m Toorak or Woollahra. or a Liberal
because he lives in Broken Hill or Colline-
wood. &
Boyd, M.H.R. for Heuty (Vic.), address-
ing the W.X.ij. at Malvern lately, said that
in the just-closed session 24 bills were passed
in the last week and the other eight in
the previous four months—and lie didn’t
think much of the performance. Asked why
[Mick Paul, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
SELF-PORTRAIT OF A PRIME MIN-
ISTER PENDING THE AMEND-
MENT OF THE CONSTITUTION.
his party didn’t alter it, he replied: *'l have
as much influence in the Ministry *as that
chair you are sitting on. Latterly the ordin-
ary M.P. has been an absolute cypher.
The modern tendency is for Parliament to
hand over the work to a few individuals,
and from the few individuals it passes to
one individual.” But the “ordinary M.P.
can’t escape his responsibility like that. Me
isn’t necessarily a cypher. To save his skin
he can turn himself into one; and that is
what he does 19 times out of 20. Then the
cursed machine says he is just what it
wants, and secures his re-election. Which
is all the proof that ought to be wanted
that the party machine is the arch-enemy of
modern democracy.
A condensed essay on the high cost of liv-
ing is found in the price of silver. The metal
that the humble bob is made out of was
worth 2s. l|d. per ounce in 1914 when the
war broke out. That was when people paid
for it in gold. Then the excited nations
issued between five and six thousand million
Pounds’ worth of paper, Australia doing its
full share, and silver now costs ss. Gd. per
ounce. The war made no very special de-
mand for silver, for, though more was re-
quired for circulation, the soldiers didn’t eat
it, and it wasn’t used for ammunition. The
cost of the article went up chiefly because
a crazy diffusion of paper “wealth” wakes
costs go up, and the kind of rise that is
caused that way can’t be legislated against.
It is just as useful to stand on the earth and
legislate that an escaped balloon shall rise no
higher.
Ryan’s search for a soft seat recalls the
pre-Federation days when Edmund Barton
bore the Federal banner for All Australia
ij l Freetrade Sydney. Me was about to
stand for Bourke (N.S.W.) with Freetrade
Milieu as an opponent, when he was taunted
with want of pluck in not attacking the
Freetrade lion in its den. So Barton, on
his mettle, withdrew his nomination and
announced he was all in for King Division.
George Reid’s seat and the heart of Free-
trade and Anti-Federation ; in fact, the big-
gest thing a good Australian could tackle.
Of course he didn’t win, though he put up
a great fight. The humor of the situation
was supplied by Millen, who rushed away
fiom Bourke for a few days to help Reid
and lost his own seat.
Lawson succeeded in piloting his Anti-
Profiteering Bill through the Vic. Assembly
with little amendment. The Uppah Mouse
has to handle the measure yet, but there is
no talk of any mauling. The immediate re-
sult is likely to be little more than the con-
version of the present Royal Commission
(McCay, Williams and Mills) into the Fair
Profits Commission proposed in the bill
Nothing is suggested in the way of leading
the public to cease creating the spurious
demand which makes profiteering easy.
[James Edmond and J. B. Dailey, 214 Georee-
street, Sydney; and Edmund Fisher, Old Exchange
Melbourne.] s ’
IF AND PERHAPS AND POSSIBLY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
'If the financial outlook warrants it.”
—Statement on the icar gratuity.
If but the outlook warrants it next year
Our airy castles shall at once appear ;
And where we kept the pig and grew the corn
Our palace towers shall glitter in the morn.
Meanwhile the purse-strings seem a little stiff —
Stiff with an if.
W e still have paper. Bless the useful ink
That makes it look like cash —-d'you see us wink?
The biggest shining nugget ever found
Was not so quickly scratched from out the ground
As we can sign ; but still the pen seems stiff—
Stiff with an if.
The soldiers fought and bled in one great cause
The while we won the war with loud applause;
And those brave soldiers want a little cash.
We can’t refuse them. But the deed were rash
To raise the money now while times are stiff —
Stiff with an if.
There really is a lot of “if” about—
If this, if that —the whole world seems in doubt ;
But there is always virtue in delay—
We must not, dare not, shall not pay our way !
The great “perhaps” is oil when things are stiff
Stiff with an if.
Ah, well, it’s this year, next year, sometime, never 1
We tack and trim our sails lest fate should sever
W’ith one election snap the tiller ropes.
Perhaps we’ll keen our office and our hopes.
Perhaps, perhaps—but here the squall comes—
whiff!
The soldiers’ anger catches sail and skiff!
Sunk by an if!
N.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


THE ALIEN SHILLELAGH.
“An Irish Convention has been held in Melbourne, and an Ulster rally has been he’d in Sydney.”
AUSTRALIA: “Drat those boys! I wish they’d fight somewhere else.”


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
Registered
.BHAS;
Brand.
Producers of Lead in tlie following forms—
Refined Lead, Corroding Lead, Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated),
Super-refined Lead, Chemical Lead.
Also of—
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated), Spelter,
and the following Alloys and Metallic Products—
Antimonial Lead, Linotype Metal, Litharge (Industrial and Assay),
Bearing Metals, Leaded Zinc Pigments, Blue Powder.
Purchasers on a Specially Favorable Tariff of Silicious Silver-L'ead Ores, Slags, etc.,
containing Silver and Lead. Lead Drosses. Zinc Urosses.^^^____
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE—
H. L. SHACKELL. Secretary.
LONDON OFFICE: PINNERS HALL. AUSTIN FRIARS, E.C. 2
A. .T. SMITH. London Secretary.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY—
R. N. KIRK (Agent).
ADELAIDE OFFICE: 62 BROOK MAN'S BUILDING, ADELAIDE—
C. S. STOKES (Agent).
SMELTING WORKS. PORT PIRIE. S.A.
COKE WORKS. BELLAMBI. N.S.W.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Moderate Charges.
Economical Management.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE Company (Ltd.)
Specially Qualified by Act of Parliament to act as
TRUSTEE, EXECUTOR, ADMINISTRATOR, ATTORNEY
UNDER POWER, AGENT, ETC.
TRUST FUNDS UNDER THE COMPANY’S CONTROL EXCEED £15,000,000.
Booklet on Application. Undoubted Security.
33 to 39 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Manager.
R. L. MASSIE, Secretary.
A Safe Investment, or money returned if better value can be obtained elsewhere—the “PAVILION,” Sydney’s Restaurant de luxe, Circular Quay.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Colonial Sugak Refining Co.
(Sydney) :
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
-Mar.,’l2.. 225,601 121 p.e.=187,500 38,101 161,545
Sept.,’l2.. 229,629 121 „ ~ 187,500 42,129 203,674
Mar., ’13.. 233,530 121 „ ~ 187,500 46,030 249,704
£250,000 of reserves capitalised.. ) m 019
Sept.,’l3.. 255,440 121 p.3.=203,125 52,315 j
Mar., ’14.. 263,761 125,, ~203,125 60,636 112,655
Sept., T 4. . 256,361 121 „„ 203,125 53,236 165,891
Mar., ’15.. 272,708 121 „ ~203,125 69,583 235,474
Assets written up, £3,250,000 1
Bonus to shareholders (in Fiji [■ 235,474
and N.Z. Co. stock), £3,250,000 ]
Mar., ’16.. 261,250 64p.c.= 211.250 50,000 285,474
Sept., T 6.. 143,004 6$ „ ~ 105,625 37,379 322,853
Mar., T 7.. 145,758 64 „ ~105,625 40,133 362,986
Sept.,’l7. . 136,502 6* „„ 105,625 30,877 393.863
Mar., ’lB.. 142,641 61 „ ~105,625 37,016 430.879
Sept.,’lB.. 137,816 6.} „ ~105,625 32,191 463,070
Mar.,’l9. . 147,611 81 „ ~ 138,125 9,486 472,556
Sept.,’l9.. 130,012 64 „ ~105,625 24,387 490,943
* Exclusive of Replacement and Depreciation Fund.
The C.S.R. Co. has been harvesting a
record crop of troubles. To begin with, owing
to the shipping strike, which cut off supplies
of cane and coal, the four refineries pro-
duced only two-thirds of the normal output.
Still, despite the smaller turnover and the
proportionately heavier expenses, disclosed
net profits were only 12 p.c. less than in
the previous record term, and the usual sweet
61 p.c. dividend—sweet because of the bonus
shares in the Fiji pup float of a few
years ago—was paid with ease. But cer-
tainly things have not all gone the co.’s way
lately; drought has badly affected crops, and
in the case of the Childers mill only 6000
tons have been put through compared with
the 107,000 tons crushed last year. Weather
conditions have since brightened in the cane
districts, so prospects for next season have
improved.
But the greatest discomfort which the big
co.’s management is experiencing results from
the Interstate Commission of inquiry into
the sugar industry. When last it was be-
fore the Commission the co. refused to pro-
vide certain information asked for, and the
High Court and Privy Council decided that
the Commission did not have the power to
compel the co. to open its mouth. The Com-
mission, however, insisted that the informa-
tion which it had requested was essential.
Parliament agreed, and a fortnight ago a
special Act was passed giving the Inter-
state Commission full power to compel the
co. to produce all information required. Of
course the chairman dropped a tear or two
on the subject when addressing shareholders:
It is now becoming evident that the action we took
in the direction of lessening the waste in manufac-
ture, commenced nearly 40 years ago and maintained
since with success, is regarded as imposing on us
the obligation to explain to our competitors all that
we have done in this direction. Of course, this
would be, in every respect, impossible. Many allu-
sions have been made of late to the application of
science to industry, and you can estimate for your-
selves the depth of feeling on this subject by the
continuance of the efforts to break up the one business
in which some success has been achieved by the
adoption of methods of scientific control.
This is clever side-stepping. No Govern-
ment or any sane Commission would attempt
to force the co. to reveal its secret processes
to the world. But the Interstate Com-
mission is justified in demanding precise
figures as to costs, the revenue from rum
and other by-products, and any other par-
ticulars which will enable Parliament to
ascertain the actual net profit. The direc-
tors said a year back: “So far as we are
concerned we would be glad if the million
and a half we have laid out in Queensland
had been invested elsewhere.” The co.,
having been given the opportunity to show
how bad its position is, always declines to
come down to details. But the management
will have to be less secretive. The
unanimity with which the Federal Parlia-
ment granted the Commission fuller powers
indicates public feeling towards it. A con-
cern which less than five years ago, in one
shake of its sleeve, disclosed 34 millions of
hidden profits cannot expect much sympathy
if. after squealing about conditions in
Queensland, it later refuses to answer ques-
tions in the witness-box.
The Fiji co.’s accounts are made up
annually to March 31.; but the parent co.’s
P. and L. has been credited with £22,539,
dividends from this co. and interest on War
Loan. Apparently the position so fai as
the labor force in Fiji is concerned has P 0 *
improved, but “there are indications that
the British Government begins to recognise
that a serious injustice is being done. ±h-
C.S.R. at present has a representative in
London telling John Bull what it thinks
aoout the matter.
# * * *
The National Bank of New Zealand :
To Ke- Re-
March Profiti. Dividends. serves. serves.
1906. .’ £50,857 12 p.e. = £30,000 £20,857 £ |59,167
1907 P 64 m 9 i oT S T2pl= a, 8 e 8 1 760 IJS! S&M
908" 71 045 12 „ „ 45 000 26,045 361,363
1909! : 7mm 13 ;;;; 48,750 26,673 mose
1910.. 72,374 12 ~ ~ 45,000 27,374 415,410
Premiums on new share issue 62,500 477,910
1911.. 79,594 13 p.c. = 57,500 22,094 500,004
1912 91 260 13 „ „ 65,000 26,260 626,264
ml" 9M92 13 ~,, 65,000 30,492 556,756
Premiums on new share issue 125.000 681,/56
1914 120 896 13 p.c. = 94,335 26,561 708,317
lilt:: iSISs 13 P „„ 97,500 24,763 733,080
1916.. 106,529 13 „ „ 97.500 9,029 742,109
1917 113,145 13 „ ~ 97,500 15,645 757,754
1918" U5;296 13 ” ” 97,500 17,796 775,550
1919.. 136,882 13 „ „ 97,500 39,382 814,932
Big changes have taken place in the
National of Maoriland since the balance in
March, paid capital having been increased
from £750,000 to a million by putting out
the unissued 100,000 shares. Capital is now
made up of 400,000 £7 10s. shares paid to 505.,
and since the new issue was sold at a
premium of £3 per share, £300,000 has gone
into reserves, the bank’s funds thus being
increased altogether by £550,000. One half
of the new issue was taken up by existing
•holders; the other half went in one block
to a new and very fat and influential part-
ner, Lloyd’s Bank, the huge London con-
cern which last year swallowed the National
Bank of Scotland, the Capital and Counties
Bank and the London and River Plate Bank.
Banking amalgamations were the fashion in
England towards the end of last year, but
the National directors apparently decided
that they did not want their concern swal-
lowed, though they considered that it would
be advantageous to be seen hand-in-hand with
one of the big fellows. The result was a
“working alliance” with Lloyd’s, the latter
bank acquiring an eighth interest and put-
ting one of its directors on the National
Board. The striking feature of the arrange-
ment was that Lloyd’s was apparently so
satisfied with the National’s affairs that it
paid £275,000 for a £125,000 interest in
the Maoriland concern, though, of course,
it has the right to contribute the balance of
£250,000, if and when called, at par.
Now that the war is done with, note how
disclosed net profits have been allowed to
bound ahead. Actual results were even bet-
ter than shown by the figures in the intro-
ductory table, in which amounts written off
for various purposes are not included. Here
are the gross profits, after providing for con-
tingencies, and each year’s expenses, etc., for
the past six years:—
Written off
Gross Premises arid
Profits. Expenses. Investments.
1914 .. £258,024 £113,128 £15,000
1915 .. 275,239 125,476 20,000
1916 . . 296,555 153,027 25,000
1917 . . 329.268 175,623 28,000
1918 .. 360,748 211,753 20,000
1919 . . 413,490 226,607 30,000
The bank’s funds expanded from £1,458,317
in 1914 to £1,564,932 at March 31 last.
Gross profits have increased 60 p.c.; but
meantime expenses have doubled. The
heavier outgoings are due principally to in-
creased taxation, both the British and Maori-
land Treasuries taking an increasingly larger
cut each year. Four years ago taxation
called for under £20,000; last year Maori-
land taxes alone amounted to £60.544, while
£33,775 was extracted by the British tax-
collector. And, considering the fat profits
which the bank has been making, it has not
paid a penny more than it should towards
the cost of the war. Four years ago, when
the first war taxes hove in sight, share-
holders were warned that, instead of receiv-
ing 13 p.c. divs. free of income-tax as in
the past, they might be called upon to pay
the tax themselves, or, as an alternative, the
div. rate might have to be reduced. Nothing
of the sort has happened, of course. We
got more brazen as the war advanced.
Reasons why business should have been
much more profitable during the past few
years are clearly visible in this comparison
of the balance-sheet figures:—
Lubimties.
1914. 1918. 1919.
Notes .. .. £255,899 £1,702,381 £1,177,271
Bills, etc 899,674 1,003,237 951,394
Deposits . . .. 4,304,654 5,656,903 6,481,558
Acri’tr.
Liquid assets .. 2,527,394 4,247,994 4,175,958
Advances.. .. 4,362.893 5,539.671 5,9’9.219
Premises .. .. 85,756 158,005 139,977
The National had £106.615 more of its own
funds working for it at March 31 than five
years ago, the whole of this amount repre-
senting accumulated profits. The manage-
; ment had £921,372 more notes to play with,
; while depositors had entrusted it with an
additional £2,176,904. On the other side,
last year £1,556,326 more advances were on
the books than in 1914, and sweet earnings
must have come from this business.
Further, of the £1,648,564 increase in liquid
assets, £890,850 represented additional hold-
ings of public securities which have
been earning a tidy bit for share-
holders. Notwithstanding the additional
accommodation to customers to enable
them to take up War Loan and to
finance heavy stocks, the bank’s position
at March 31 last was very strong: no less
than 48.5 p.c. of all liabilities was held
liquid. And as to the advances the direc-
tors declared that “they have never been
of a more liquid character.” Also for every
£1 of its own funds the bank was holding
only about £5 10s. of outside money; so
with the additional £550,000 of funds got
in by the new issue the protection afforded
creditors is exceptionally good. Share-
holders are doing very well, too. Since
reserves exceed paid capital, the 13 p.c.
div. actually means only a little over 6 p.c.
p.a.; but as the distributions are free of
income-tax, this return is much sweeter
than it looks.
Farmers and Settlers’ Co-operative
Insurance Co. of Australia, Ltd. — :
Conditions have not been favorable lately
for this co., which is endeavoring to cheapen
insurance for primary producers. Last
season was a poor one for the wheat farmer,
which meant that Cocky had less to insure.
Consequently there was a big falling-off in
the volume of business from the co.’s earlier
supporters, and though hundreds of new co-
operators were roped in, premiums from
crops were less than in the previous term.
However, the management was able to write
a large number of new homestead and wool-
shed policies, while workmen’s compensation
and personal accident business also ex-
panded. Net premiums thus showed a small
increase for the year:—
Year to Net Net
Julv, Premiums. Claims. Exes. Profits.
1916.. £0,540 £ll7l £2,980 £3075
1917.. 11.91 Q 4911 6,400 1553
1918.. 24,024 8282 14,713 2078
1919.. 25,868 7626 16,321 2986
The loss rate was very mild—29.s p.c. of net
premiums compared with 34.5 p.c. for the
previous year. But chiefly on account of
the smaller individual insurances, the ex-
pense rate was heavier: 63.1 p.c. compared
with 61.2 p.c. for 1918. These expense
rates look very solid. But this must be
taken into consideration: the co. is now only
in its fifth year, and has to fight hard for
its business. This organisation work entails
heavy expense, and there is no alternative
way of building up the co. But the man-
agement is doing the correct thing, ap-
parently debiting the whole of the outlay
against current revenue, instead of charging
portion of it to capital and building up an
establishment or organisation account among
assets. There is already an establish-
ment account in the balance-sheet, but
apparently nothing has been added to
it for two years. Meantime it has
been written down out of profits from
£9319 in 1917 to £7731 at June 30
last, and a further reduction is being made
from the balance of the year’s profits after
paying dividends.
• • • • • •
Though this is a co-operative office, so far
as premiums are concerned it can offer no
better terms than any other co. To secure
underwriting and other facilities any new
concern must conform with the requirements
of the associated cos., which fix tariffs. But
where this co.’s promoters hope to score is
by restricting the issue of shares to people
with insurance business to place, each policy-
holder being eligible to acquire a proprie-
torial interest proportionate to the amount
of business he puts through the co.
This means that profits (exclusive, of
course, of the usual bonuses) are avail-
able only for policy-holders who have
backed their insurances by taking up
shares. The scheme is sound, and with
reasonable luck substantial savings should
be effected by insurers later on. So far the
co. has not favored its supporters with any
special benefits; but they haye certainly been
no worse off than in any other concern. They
are having their insurances written at stan-
dard rates, and, further, are receiving 8 p.c.
divs. on the capital they have put up. If
The Bulletin has any fault to find with the
co. it is that this dividend rate is too liberal.
The distribution of divs. is no doubt a neces-
sity for coaxing in new co-operators; but
this naper would sooner see, say, 6 p.c. dis-
tributions, and the balance put into reserves,
which, after all, belong to shareholding
policy-holders.
What matters most, however, is the protec-
tion which the co. can offer its policy-
holders. At July 31 shareholders’ capital
amounted to £35,096. In War Loan, de-
posits, cash and other more or less liquid
assets the co. had £33,682. Deduct £499.)
due to sundry creditors, and there were
fairly-readily convertible assets amounting to
£28,689 available to meet claims. This was
equal to 3 30.9 p.c. of last year’s net pre-
miums; not a very strong proportion, still
not at all bad considering the youth of the
office. Looked at another W'ay, after meet-
ing all liabilities there were net tangible
assets capable of meeting over 34 times last
year’s losses.
On account of drought troubles the co. will
no doubt have a dry time again this year.
But if good seasons follow it should bound
ahead. There are now about 5000 share-
holders ; and it should be comparatively inex-
pensive to get in their business. For that
is one way in which the management should
make a big saving; the true co-operator does
not have to be chased for his insurances. A
few pence spent on Webster’s post, should
save pounds in agents’ railway tickets and
motor-cars —pounds available for return to
co-operators in the form of dividends.
* * * *
Port S wettenham Rubber Co., office in
Melbourne, plantations in the Federated
Malay States: —
Charged to
Profit. Dividends. Development. Deficit.
June £ 1465
1911.. £1,265 Nil £llO3 200
Reserves.
1912.. 10,241 6 p.c. =£2875 1910 7100
1913.. 4,312 10 „ „ 5750 1819 5728
1914.. 1,047 Nil 641 0770
Law costs written off, £3455 .. 3320
1915.. 1,105 Nil 754 4425
1916.. 250 Nil 1441 4675
1917.. 1,297 Nil 1699 5972
1918.. 1,541 Nil 1608 7513
1919.. 1,429 Nil 1815 8942
This co. is in the same stable as the Bukit
Kubu. but it has been less fortunate. To be-
gin with, portion of the original area taken
up was wrested from it after lengthy and ex-
pensive litigation, and later a cyclone played
havoc with the remainder of the plantation.
The management decided that there were not
sufficient prospects in what was left of the
Port Swettenham estate, so it acquired
an area 70 miles away. Added to these
troubles the rubber market has been not at
all kind. From 158.2901 b. harvested last
year the co. could squeeze only a poor little
profit of £1429. Still, production is looking
up, costs are being reduced and the market
is showing better promise, 2s. 3d. per lb.
having been received lately, compared with
last year’s average of Is. 5.3 d. If cyclones
or other troubles don’t disturb the peace,
shareholders can look forward hopefully.
The battering which the co. received natu-
rally left marks on the balance-sheet. At
June 30 paid capital was £57,500, but it had
taken £60,668 to acquire the two estates,
and though the co. had been able to accumu-
late £8942 of reserves, to finance develop-
ment (£13,156) and to meet the outlay on
plant, etc., £14,465 of debts had piled up,
the excess of liabilities over liquid assets at
the balance being £9586. This position has
since been eased by increasing nominal capi-
tal from £60,000 to £lOO,OOO and issuing
20.500 new shares as prefs., thus enabling
the co. to settle with its creditors and pro-
ceed with the planting of 300 acres more
at the Australasia estate. Comparison with
its more fortunate stable-mate, the Bukit
Kubu, is interesting. That co.. now 10 years
old, with a paid capital of £30,000, antici-
pates harvesting 210,0001 b. rubber during
the current year. Port Swettenham is a year
younger, but owing to all its troubles the
total crop from the two estates for the cur-
rent year is estimated at 160,0001 b.. while
paid capital at June 30 was £57,500, and
20.500 £1 prefs. have since been issued. At
present Port Swettenham has 751 acres
under rubber compared with Bukit Ivubu’s
653, but the former c-o.’s trees are. of course,
on the average much younger, and there are
300 acres still available for planting.
• * * *
Last year’s N. S. Wales mineral pro-
duction was worth £14,419,352, and that
brought the State’s total tally to over 3004
millions. The Mines Department has com-
piled an interesting table showing the value
of output for each decade over the past 50
years:—
1869-1878 .. .. £18,903,190
1879-18S8 . . . . 25,222,271
1889-1898 . . . . 49,772,227
1899-1908 .. 70,501,400
1909-1918 .. .. 108,778,388
So far over 237:} million tons coal, worth
£92,721,420, has been dug out; silver-lead
comes next on the list with £80,262,465;
14.652,7980 z. (line) gold worth £62,368,521
has been won; copper has contributed
almost £15,000,000; zinc, nearly £13,000,000 ;
tin, £11.500,000; coke, £4,450,000; kerosene
shale, £2,405,000; and opal, £1,447,000.


Wolfram, Scheelite
and Molybdenite.
PRICES AT PRODUCING CENTRES:
MOLYBDENITE:
85 per cent, or over, 100/- for each
unit M«S2.
WOLFRAM AND SCHEELITE.
65 per cent, or over, 52/6 for each
unit WO3.
Enquiries Invited relative to
LOWER GRADES of the above
Minerals.
DALGETY § CO. LTD.,
Commonwealth Government Agents.
The Pacific Cableßoard
BEST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, etc.
A “WEEK-END” rate is now available
from Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada, also for the United States of
America. to be posted from Canada.
WEEK-END messages are accepted up to
midnight on Saturday for delivery in Great
Rritain and Canada on the following
Mondav morning.
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC.”
Daily-
Ordinary. Deferred. Week-end.
Qt. Britain .. * W
New Zealand.. 4ld,
Canada .. 2,« V> j
a&A vttom
Week-end, Service with the United Kingdom
and U.S.A. has been temporarily suspended.
Argentine, Brazil. Chili and Peru, West
Indies, Central America and other rates on
application. Cable forms, Deferred and
Week-end Retnilarions mnv be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
77 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1346 (3 lines).
Quem’s House, Queen St., Melbourne. Tel. -2588,
. d. MILWARD. MaiOcer in rt. ...
; 77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY, ZZZ
The Cherry Tin Co., Ardlethan, N.S.W., installed
two “Curvilinear” concentrators to test them against
the other Tables in their mills. They have been in
constant operation for months under the closest
scrutiny of the manager and the managers of other
mines, "who had to decide whether they would adopt
“CurvilineaTs” for their new mills in preference to
“Standard” Tables. The result is that the Big
Bygoo and Lone Hand have ordered six for their new
mill, and orders for other mills are to follow as
soon as the buildings are ready. Under ordinary
working conditions an extraction of 93.6 was ob-
tained —easily a record. The “Curvilinear” is only
half the size and weight of other Tables, yet has
a capacity up to 1-} tons per hour, it has no
“danger line,” requires no attention, has no toggles
or other machine parts to wear, and is equally good
on slime or coarse material. And with all these
advantages the price is 30 p.c. below the price of
other Tables. Sole manufacturers, N. Guthridge,
Ltd., Sydney.— Advt.
'** * *
The advantage of having battery charging current
on tap in the home garage is now within the reach
of every motorist. The G.E. Mercury Arc Battery
Charger makes any ordinary lighting circuit a source
of energy for starting, lighting, and ignition bat-
teries: Its cost is a mere trifle compared with the
convenience and economy of home charging. An
overnight boosting charge every few weeks will not
only increase the efficiency of a battery, but will
also lengthen the life of the plates. You should
get one of these outfits. Australian General Electric
Company, Wentworth Avenue, Sydney ; and corner of
Queen and Little Collins Streets, Melbourne.— Advt.
Your live stock need pure drinking water just - as
much as humans do. See they get it! Fall in
line with the big cattle salesmen —leading water-
supply boards, town councils and stations—use
Aluminoferric for purifying the water in your wells,
dams and tanks. Aluminoferric quickly causes all
impurities to precipitate, leaving the water clear,
fresh and wholesome. Sold by storekeepers the
country over. Full particulars and prices free from
William Adams & Co. Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth. — Advt. [1
For grinding' all classes of material in Ball Mills
and Tube Mills it is necessary to have a suitable
grinding medium. The mines in West Australia,
also numerous cement plants, are using balls of forged
tyre steel, and find that they give excellent results.
These balls may be obtained in various sizes from
the Austral Otis Engineering Co. of Melbourne, who
have put in a special plant for forging them, and
can give delivery of most sizes from stock. This
company also manufactures forged steel shoes and
dies for battery work. — Advt. [3
Pioneer Wood Stave Pipe.—Copy of letter from
The Central Red, White and Blue Mining Co., Ben-
digo, 19th February, 1919: “Dear Sir, —Replying to
your letter of the 13th inst., we have much pleasure
in stating that the wood piping purchased from you
in 1912 is giving every satisfaction and is in every-
way suitable for the work. The maintenance charges
are approximately nil. (Sgd.) McColl, Rankin and
Stanistreet, Manager's.” Send for our illustrated
catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe Company, Ltd.
(H. 0.), Burns Bay Road, Longueville, N.S.W. Con-
tractors to all State Governments. — Advt.
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink’s Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723. — Advt.
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.— Advt.
» * # »
The high rates of wages now being paid make it
necessary for companies handling material to adopt
the latest labor-saving devices, and Arthur Leplas-
trier & Co., Circular Quay, Sydney, who maintain an
engineering department specially for the design of
elevating and conveying machinery with a view to
minimising hand-labor, thus reducing the cost of
handling, are prepared to submit proposals for plants
suitable for any service. Queensland inquiries: The
Australian Machinery Co., Marv Street, Brisbane. —
Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patent
obtained. ConuspN & Co., 453 Collins Street, Mel
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assav
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertlingb
Balances, Weights, Morgan's Crucibles, .Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. 11. B. Selbv k Co..
Ltd., 205 George Street (between Hunter anil Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street, Melb.— Advt.
T. Tl. Palmer, 8.E., Fel. Chem. Soe., etc., consult-
ing engineer,' valuing, organising, technical advice,
mining, metallurgy, flotation and selective flotation
processes. Collins House. Melbourne; and 79 Pitt
Street. Sydney. Cables and Telegrams: “Remlap,
Melbourne.”—A dvt.
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Loss of Profits
Insure in
The I.O.A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital ..£250,000
Subscribed Capital .. 244,396
Paid-up Capital .. 122,000
Income (Cross) 1918 .. 457,852
Established I'.IIO.
AGENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVK, General Manager,
263 George Street. Sydney.
A. Victor Leggo & Co.
Melbourne—Sydney —Brisbane.
Manufacturers Metallurgists Merchants.
Exporters and Importers.
Snecialties: INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS, INDUSTRIAL MINERALS,
ORES, METALS AND RAW MATERIALS.
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Other Goods.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
Ihe question whether the Celebration
lode is or is not a continuation of the
Boulder-llorseshoe-Ivanhoe ore channel is
still being disputed. Field-geologist Honman,
who surveyed the country six years ago,
recently examined the field again and had
a look at the Celebration workings. He
emphatically declares that the formation in
that property is a lode of true Kalgooiiie
type, and is on a continuation of that field.
File Alines Alinister has asked chief geologist
Gibb Alaitland to reply. Aleantime the sale
of the Celebration to a London crowd is still
held up owing to the refusal of the pros-
pectors to part with their “tenth interest
in any flotation” for cash. Big inducements
are being offered them to sell out, but any-
how a co. will probably not be floated
for at least another month. The adjoining
block to the south has been, acquired by a
development syndicate; there was a great
rush for shares and many disappointments.
* * * *
Fdaa Alay Consolidated Extended recently
got hold of block 58 at Hampton Plains, and
so that the directors can “devote their ener-
gies to the development” of this claim, six
months’ exemption is being applied for on
the co.’s Westonia delusion.
* * * *
A W estralian inspector of mines recently
journeyed .300 miles to the edge of the
tropics to inspect the alleged mountain of
copper on which the Commodore, of Aleeka-
tharra, took an option. He reports that
there is some copper exposed, which would
probably average from 30 to 50 p.c.. and that
tor a comparatively small outlay the deposit
could be tested. But the difficulties of work-
ing are great. Apart from the distance of
the show from the railhead, which is 300
miles from the nearest port, fuel, timber,
etc., are almost entirely absent. To stand
up against the heavy charges, hand-picking
of the ore would be necessary, and the show
would need to be very rich to support a co.
Another Westralian co. which badly re-
quires a new mine and is in a position to
finance one is the North Kalgurli. Very little
revenue is being derived from its tribute-
rooted derelict at Kalgoorlie; and as the
Board seems disinclined to spend any money
on deep development, probably less will be
obtained in future. There was some talk
while ago of selling the property to the
Kalgurli, whose almost worked-out mine
adjoins ; but it came to nothing.
* * * •
Another Ardlethan (N.S.W.) boom is pre-
dicted consequent on the threatened White
Crystal dividend, on results from ihe Big
Bygoo and on the alleged intention of Cur-
pathia sooner or later to treat more than
30 tons ore per week. A condition prece-
dent to any further company flotations
should be a. concentrated effort on water con-
servation, without which the field can never
assert itself. But if lode-tin mining is to
have a flutter, why overlook the probabili-
ties in the north of the State? Surely in
that extensive stretch of stanniferous coun-
try the Ottery and the Dutchman’s were
not the only formations worthy of being
classed as lodes? In no other part of the
world with tin at anything like the ruling
price would a mine like the Ottery be idle,
or be worked solely for arsenic. It is a
true fissure lode, and was a big producer
to the depth at which it was abandoned
owing to the appearance of an extra per-
centage of arsenic and the low price of tin.
It presents all the characteristics of some
important Cornish lodes (alternations of
wholly-arsenical and partly-arsenical tin-
ore) which are being worked to close on
3000 feet. It is a freehold which does not
come within the recent Alining on Private
Property Act, but when that is amended, as
the Alinister proposes, the owners will have
to work it themselves or give way to others.
* * # #
Torrington (N.S.W.) tin shares have been
having a bad time with the drought. Hart’s
has been shut down since the middle of
August. A new large dam has been made,
so that when the dry spell does break the co.
won’t be caught again. For the six months
to August 31. 599 tons ore gave almost 24
tons concentrates, the average value of.the
material treated thus being 4 p.c. During
the 18 months covered by the accounts tin
sales gave £B2OB, and total revenue amounted
to £8502. but operations, after allowing for
office exes, and depreciation, resulted in a
loss of £895. making the total loss to date
£4897. The report is not illuminating about
recent developments; but the directors say
that “operations at various levels in both
Hart’s and Dutchman’s have proved payable
bodies of ore to exist.” -V new shaft is
being put down to make the ore body at
Dutchman’s more accessible.
* * * *
“Jackar”: Bourke's Hill tin for its last
six months averaged £149 15s, per ton. Tak-
ing the London average price at £240 for
metallic (actually it was more), then the
co.’s concentrates were. I figure, worth fully
£lBO per ton ; so that, if my calculation is
correct, between producer and ore-buyer there
is a difference of £3O to account for. If the
ore-buyer got half of that he would have
made a handsome profit without running the
slightest risk. Such matters have been
brought under the notice of the Federal
authorities, but nothing is done. W. M.
Hughes camouflages the position by saying
that the tin-plate industry will soon be
established in Australia, when adjustments
giving full justice to the producer may be
made. In the matter of costs, the Bourke’s
Hill manager is doing excellent work con-
sidering all the difficulties which confront
him in treating dirt at 134 d. per cub. yd. Y-
Waterhole does cheaper work, but it has
higher and wider faces, and much more
powerful plant. Some plants in the district
run up to over 2s. per yard. A recent pros-
pectus put down sluicing costs at 9d., which
is either folly or ignorance—or worse.
Daylesford (Vic.) will be losing more of
its mining population if it cannot produce
another development or two. North Nug-
getty is selling off, for its Chewton venture
is a failure. Ajax faces ran into poor stuff,
and so it has had to get on to the call-list.
The latest in the Nuggetty is a bit of decent
stone in the shallow levels, but so far it
doesn’t look much more than a Tom Thumb
development. This leaves the burden of the
field to North Ajax and the Rising Star
Extended. The last-named has prospects
enough to drag out cash for progressive work
from the Mining Vote, but little else. De-
velopments at North Ajax are of the right
type, although the market keeps a very
watchful eye on the doings of Ballarat in the
scrip. The first crushing from the new for-
mation, though nothing sensational, was
about payable, but Hansen is opening up a
fair block of decent-grade stone in the right
class of country, so there is still a chance
that Daylesford will not end the year witu
every mine in the district on the call-list.
• * * *
After all, apparently, South Langi Logan’s
troubles are not due solely to the go-slow
Broken Hill miner who was tried on the
deep leads of this Ai’arat (Vic.) show.
General-manager Bryant told shareholders
the other day that other employments flay
3s. or 4s. per day more than the co. can
afford. That looks as if the fault lies in the
mine. With 12 months’ work in hand and
good wash showing down the gutter averag-
ing at least an ounce to the fathom, South
Langi should be a fair thing. Still, if profits
cannot be raked out unless the miner comes
back hat in hand to take less than he can
get elsewhere, a shut-down seems the only
alternative. Legal-manager Alex. Peacock
considers conditions “must improve, as there
would not be as great a demand for labor in
the country owing to the dry season.” Deep-
lead mining is in a hopeless position if its
chances are dependent upon the temporary
misfortunes of Cocky.
# * # *
Kalumpang came into being as a pup of
the Trong, which swapped its dredge for an
S 3 p.c. interest in the co. Tin-winning
started in November last, and a seven-months’
campaign has settled the uneasiness which
the first month’s dreadful result caused those
interested. The average for the 458,140 cub.
yds. of wash handled was 0.9721 b. oxide per
yd., of a value (with tin at £l3l 2s. 6d. per
ton) of 15.8 d. per yd. Costs ran out at
5.85 d. per yd.; and after paying royalty, the
co., pocketed 7.81 d. per yd. This gave the
Board £14,897 profits to play with, so a
couple of Is. divs. have been forthcoming,
and £3255 has been written off initial expen-
diture. Work done shows that the dredge is
keeping up to the bore results of both Lewis
and Bethune. Things have panned out so
well that “a long and a prosperous career”
is talked of. But manager Price is not find-
ing working conditions so easy as at Trong.
He has been unable to bottom some of the
ground, and irregular patches and lumps of
clav that hold on to the tin in the chutes
are other troubles. But there never was a
dredging area which did not present a diffi-
cult patch or two ; and the troubles visible
in the Kalumpang do not seem to warrant
the recent market slide.
* * * *
There is joy in the Badak camp because
director H. Scarborough has brought to Mel-
bourne samples of tin taken round the camp
of prospector Orton in the valley of Keddah
(F.M.S.). It is stated officially that the
Syndicate now ..possesses 5000 acres instead
of 1500. What is not officially cleared up
is whether Scarborough’s samples are rep-
resentative of the whole of the bores put
down. It is given out that “samples taken
from the 100 acres close-bored assayed 47
p.c.”; but there is no real information in
that. What is the depth of wash the samples
come from and the value per lb. of the
oxide per yd. of wash? W. Wilson, the
chosen expert to check up the ground, left
a day or two ago, and, as he is an old hand
at boring, he will soon fill up the gaps.
* * * •
If Alex. Campbell does not take care
Lyell Blocks (Tas.) will give up the ghost.
To begin with, the rise above the 630-
foot crosscut, which was put up to get to
the copper-bearing clays, ran into heavy
ground. This was followed by a slip on
one side of the rise. Water has also been
troublesome at the 1200 ft. level. So the
situation now is that the weary old show
is left to itself, save that water is being
kept down in the shaft. What a run of
trouble the show has had since the days of
W. R. Wilson and Frank. Gee Duff! They
believed that the shoots of ore from the
North Lyell would make across the bound-
ary, but instead of that they either cut out on
the boundary or turned the other way. The
copper-bearing clays were always a side-
show, and even at their best wanted boom
prices to give profits. Hence, when the
present crowd abandoned work at depth and
came up to crosscut for the clays at 630 ft.,
sage old hands at Queenstown began to talk
about the price of crepe.
* * * *
Any large ambitions that J. P. O’Connor
has concerning Mt. Jasper (Tas.) will not
be realised just yet, unless shareholders foot
additional bills. So far the co. has been a
small thing in 2400 shares of £2O each. All
except 4s. has been called up since the
days when A. E. Langford pushed the mine
into notice; and managers have come and
gone and experts galore have wandered
sadly over the claim. In spite of that,
O’Connor continues hopeful about Mt. Jas-
per, New Jasper and Mt. Stewart. So he
wants new cos. with ample cash to butt
into New Jasper and Mt... Stewart and to
open up the old Heazelwood. If lead, silver
and copper are not a sufficient draw, he now
reports the unearthing of a nickel lode on
one of the leases and the finding of osmirid-
ium in the serpentine on another. What
more could anybody want?
* # « •
Twenty men are now employed at Federa-
tion Tin, Heemskirk (Tas.), assisting J. B.
Lewis to open up and make available for
detailed sampling the various lodes on the
property, which on the surface are exten-
sive, persistent and prominent. The biggest
difficulties are (1) the determination of the
most suitable point of attack and (2) trans-
portation between Zeehan and the mine. The
Government has been approached for the
extension of the 2ft. line from the old Com-
stock to the proposed mill site, and work is
expected to be placed in hand at an early
date. Reports of ore grade and widths are
said to continue satisfactory. If all goes
well this mine should be a big producer of tin
in a few years.
* * * #
The Oaks (N.Q.) has exhausted the call-
ing power on its, 22,560 shares of £1 each
and apparently the patience of its old sup-
porters as well. Anyhow, the directors see
no hope of getting off the 2434 shares in
reserve, nor will a reconstruction seemingly
help. Ten stampers have been at work,
but the management has decided that a
profit cannot show up until the plant is
much enlai-ged. As a way out the mine is
being offered on tribute for two years to
those shareholders who are willing to back
their faith with sufficient cash to instal a
further shd. So there is to be a tribute
syndicate of 200 shares of £lO each. Only
£750 is needed tb acquire additional plant
and get to work. With 15hd. the manage-
ment reckons that 15,000 tons can be treated
per annum at practically the same cost as
10,000 with lOhd. The syndicate is to
pay the co. 10 p.c. of the gross value of all
gold won. and when the tribute expires the
directors hope to be in the position to build
un the battery to 40 or 50 head and lay out
some money on water supply. The co. has
a vast quantity of low-grade ore available —
the average is apparently between
and 3^dwt. —and its only hope is to ’work
on a large scale. During the six years to
1915 the mines w r ere worked as a reefing
proposition and £12,129 of gold was Won;
during the four years since then gold worth
£18,158 has been won by working on the
open-cut system, which has meant low costs
—those for last year covering mining and
treatment were 10s. 84d. But as this in-
cluded a lot of development work, etc., the
management reckons it can reduce exes, to
7s. 6d. this year.
* • • *
The old Bangor slate quarry, Willunga,
about 35 miles from Adelaide, which has been
worked off and on for nearly 50 years, is
coming into its own. Two years ago it was
acquired by John Dunstan, a well-known
architect of Sydney and formerly of Broken
Hill, who had had his eye on the deposit for
many years. As the Australian Slate
Quarry, production recommenced nine months
ago, and already 150.000 roofing slates have
been turned out. Work is now proceeding
on a big scale, six machines with a two-
million-per-annum capacity having been in-
stalled, thus making it the Commonwealth’s
biggest slate proposition. Chief Inspector of
Mines Winton recently had a look at the
deposit, and declares that the slate belt is
300 ft. wide and that the material now being
dug out is about 100 ft. below the original
surface level, and should thus be free from
any defects of weathering. He further reports
that the slate is of a “very uniform grey-
blue color, free from spots or ribbon mark-
ings.”
* * * *
Silver-lead mining at Zeehan (Tas.) is
in a desperate condition; only one co., the
Niki, is producing. But it is working a
small lode in hard rock, and is further han-
dicapped with limited power and consequent
high costs. The co. is right on the bread-
line, with dim pr-ospects. Machinery is be-
ing installed at the No. G Argent shaft to
unwater and re-open this section of the old
British-Zeehan holding. The cash is being
found by local enthusiasts, helped by the
Government. A good shoot of clean ore is
said to be going underfoot, but at depth
Zeehan usually provides nothing but trouble.


Tuff l** THE. .VTo^fcir^Q
7/
TMt F>owoe.R Pope irv thf •> rvx\pT-
" ’OT ST or r."
Th£ .
Tiit Joyous Jazz.
Trie. vEP>V BXKE BEAR b^NC-t
W ■> •
"To Belize uE QOo •
oath, 1 we hot t with rne/vj Syoncy
RACE-WEEK REPUTATIONS,


fsd
j3e k/krepareaf-
ABBOTS
LAGER
< ~7Ke brinks JJour Gues'fs
%Jjff Stfppreciate
brewed rnon
PURE HALTfe HOPS'ONLV
THE DEAF HEAR!
The Joy and Happiness
of perfect hearing are
only appreciated by
those who have lost it.
The
Mears Earphone
makes it yours. The
Latest Model 96-Tone
Mears Earphone
In the hollow of the
hand or attached to
ear with light head
band.
with its great range of
tone and power, can be regulated by a touch
of the finger to suit the hearing for every
occasion, and for all stages of deafness.
The MEARS EARPHONE catches and inten-
sifies even the least whisper, and enables the
deaf to hear lectures, sermons and plays clear-
ly and distinctly. Small, compact, and incon-
spicuous. The MEARS EARPHONE is
recommended by leading Aurists, and many
prominent Australian citizens have had the
Mears Earphone in daily use for Seven
Years, with continued satisfaction.
A Lengthy Guarantee with each Instrument
FREE TRIAL I
Call and test it, or write for booklet post free.
The Mears Earphone Co., Bernard’s Bldgs.,
Tel. 3916 City. 387 George Street, Sydney.
Hotel Sydney
The Spacious Dining
Hall is a Rendezvous
of Eminence for
LUNCHEONS
and
DINNERS.
ITEMS—
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA.
CHARfIING ROOF GARDEN.
Management E. T. CHKKSEMAN.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
George Swinburne missed the Vic. National
selection for the Senate, whatever that may
be worth. He hesitated about offering him-
self, and was lost. Guthrie, of Geelong, who
was chosen instead to run with Brig.-Gen.
“Pompey” Elliott and Senator Russell, was
considered by Hughes a more acceptable man
for country districts, as the other two are
city denizens. Russell’s chances are not
greatly fancied. If one of the Farmers’ Union
candidates is preferred, Rees may be the
lucky one who will get the No. 3 vote cast
by more-or-less Nationalists.
Acting-Justice Ralston (N.S.W.), who will
be 59 on the 10th, is a grandson of Gavin
Ralston, who went as a young man to Van
Diemen’s Land and be-
came a sheep-farmer. On
the discovery of gold he
sold out and crossed over
to Victoria, where he
settled. He was the first
to build a house of stone
in South Yarra. For a
crust he kept a store in
Lonsdale-street West. His
son, Alexander James
Ralston, was clerk in the
Leg. Assembly, and after-
wards became sec. of the
A.M.P. Society. Lie mar-
ried (1860) Edith Win-
deyer, a daughter of John
Thompson, Deputy Sur-
veyor-General of N. S.
Wales, whose wife was a
sister of Richard Win-
cleyer and aunt of the late
Justice Windeyer. They
were the parents of the
Acting-Justice, who as a
young man was associate
to his uncle and married
his daughter.
CAPTAIN THE HON.
BEDE CLIFFORD,
Private Secretary to
G.-G. Ferguson.
Linking arms for once Prime Minister
Hughes and Archbishop Mannix shook their
fists at Dublin Castle and demanded the re-
lease of Chaplain O’Donnell, the former
ardent conscriptionist from Tasmania, who
had been arrested for God knows what.
Hughes owed the priest a good turn, and
Mannix showed that he could be magnani-
mous. A few days after his arrest O’Donnell
was taken over to the Tower of London, and
then told that lie could be a ticket-of-leave
man till it was decided whether a blunder
should be owned up to or there should be a
trial of a kind to save somebody’s face.
Nicholas Waters, who is administering the
affairs of the N.T., in the temporary absence
of Horatius Carey and the other two keepers
of the bridge, has been a policeman in the
Territory for more than quarter of a cen-
tury. He isn’t a Gilruth man—he was an
old inhabitant when the horse-doctor arrived
—and to that extent he isn’t an assured
failure. It was a misfortune that the Ter-
ritory lost Colonel Johnson just before
things came to a head. He had been there
for a couple of years or more as local mili-
tary head, and would probably have been
very acceptable, so far as anybody could be
acceptable while the public has no better
representation than in a camouflage advisory
council. Still Waters is quite a level-
headed, solid man, without any sympathy
with the growing arrogance of “the adminis-
tration,” and will do very well till Staniforth
Smith takes over the job.
“Wully” Kidston had a career which for
some distance paralleled that of W.M. Hughes.
For years he scratched for his living in a
back-street bookshop in Rockhampton. Then
Labor heaved him into Parliament, and later
he followed Browne into the coalition with
Morgan. From
there the transi-
tion to comrade-
ship with his oue-
t i ra e opponents
was only a matter
of time. But he
made his own
terms in the end,
and retired wi th
the honors of war
to the new Land
Court. Surly at
best, he grew worse
as his
and pressmen
loathed the job of
interviewing him.
But he had a
strong strain of
Falkirk canniness,
and he put a heavy
brake on Banana-
land’s expenditure
at a time when it
was almost as
much needed as' it
is to-day.
TOM POOLE,
S.A.’s new Judge.
Alfred Catt, just dead in Adelaide, was
nearly 86. Born in Kent, he came to 8.
Aus. 'at 15, and spent the rest of his lite
there, except for the usual trip to the
diggings. He entered Parliament in 18*. 1
for Gladstone, with J. H. Howe (still
living), and did good service till 1906. He
was in the Bray and the Playford Minis-
tries, and for 16 years was a first-class
Chairman of Committees. In private life
he was rifleman, booklover and strenuous
Methodist. . ...
James Guthrie, who, after tying with
Swinburne in the secret pre-selection ballot,
was eventually chosen as third Senate can-
didate in Victoria, is Geelong manager for
Dalgety’s, and a son of Tom Guthrie, who
did valuable pioneering work in the Northern
Territory. The boy began his education at
Geelong College and finished it in Europe,
where he studied many phases of the wool
industry. He is known in the country dis-
tricts as an expert on everything connected
with sheep, and in Melbourne as an authority
on dinners, suppers and kindred matters.
Sixteen years ago he lost a leg, after absorb-
ing blood-poisoning from sheep in Maonland.
He must about hold an Australian record
for operations under chloroform, his tally
being 23.
A last note from the Gallery:—
Most of us will regret the absence of Willie Kelly
from the House of Reps. Despite his politics and
his affluence, he had a seasoned sense of humor and
occasionally spoke in a vain of fantasy that was but
poorly appreciated by the House. His facetious wit
served as salt to the wounds which his posturing as
an exquisite inflicted off some of his staid and elderly
colleagues. Many a zif was the butt of his persi-
flage, and I recall a moment when Oom Bill Lyne
threatened to lay the lad across his knee. Consider-
ing the bite of his impertinences, it is a wonder
that Willie wasn’t reproved by some large and angry
hand, and there were times when the margin of his
escape from chastisement was very narrow. Yet,
with all his faults, the popular estimate of Kelly is
largely a delusion. Commonly regarded as a top-
liner of Fashion, he is really conspicuous for his
inconspicuous clothes. Likewise suspected of inferior
intellect, he really has a brain that goes badly
with money. When he was head of Home Affairs he
brought acumen and industry to an office where it
has been rare. He will be missed by the Federal
Parliament —and not least by the staff. Always
ready with a generous tip, he distributed a bag of
cash as a farewell gift.
After half a century’s service, H. A. Wil-
cox, general manager for the Melbourne
Tramway Board, has retired with expres-
sions of goodwill from the central staff, if
not from the rank and file. As Strangward,
the secretary, put it, he was just, and a man
of unbending integrity. But he was none too
amiable. Superintendent Holmes, a mere
youth with only 46 years’ service to his credit,
described Wilcox as the “great dynamic force
of the cable tramways.” Perhaps he was.
“Dynamic force” may be a variant for
“dividend-making machine.” Walking and
nature-study are Wilcox’s hobbies, and he
will now have leisure to enjoy them. He is
over 70.
Brig.-General Elliott, the hard-case war-
rior who just beat George Swinburne for the
National Federation selection for the Senate
(Vic.), is a pillar of the Baptist Church.
Swinburne is a Methodist stalwart. At his
first meeting Elliott pitched into Mannix
and called T. J. Ryan the Archbishop’s
henchman. And the N.F. was relying on
Elliott to rope in votes from all sections on
personal grounds!
Miss Catherine Thorne, of North Adelaide,
celebrated her birthday on the 28th October.
She is getting used to it: this was the 93rd
time. The lady, born in Devon, is the elder
daughter of James Thorne, founder of the
Bible Christians, one of the four Methodist
sects. She was a life-long friend of the late
Chief Justice Way—they first met when Way
as a very small kid attended her father’s col-
lege in North Devon.
Richard Butler, ex-Treasurer of S.A., who
was shown the door by his colleagues over
the Wheat Board’s transactions, received
last week a presentation from country people
who told him that they still had full con-
fidence in his integrity. Butler, gratefully
acknowledging the compliments, mentioned
that he had sat in S.A. Assembly for 30
years for the same district, and had in all
12 years of Ministerial office. He proposes
to leave in January for a visit to England.
Don Quixote Bowser is to get a refund of
the £l5O he paid out of his own pocket
when he permitted two options to be given
over the training-ship Dart. The Sydney
firm which was not permitted to avail itself
of its option was paid the £l5O. Vic.
Legislative Assembly, without dissent, car-
ried a motion that the conscientious John
should not be permitted to suffer a personal
loss, and it inferentially expressed its con-
fidence in his personal honor —a tribute
which pleases him more than the cheque.
Archdeacon Ilindley will be virtual
Anglican Archgaiters in Melbourne next
year. Why not give him the job altogether?
He has won his spurs, or whatever it is
a bishop wears. When Barnum’s proces-
sion entered Pianketank, the Queen of
Beauty was apparently drawn by gorgeously
caparisoned elephants, camels and ostriches.
But all the real pulling was done by an old
horse covered up. Bindley has long been
the horse.
Tiie Bulletin’s dear old friend Pumpkin
Smith has nominated for the Parkes
fN.S.W.) selection. Pumpkin must belong
to the “Ironbark” variety. He was pushed
out of Federal politics as antediluvian 12
years ago. Tom Slattery was the first Min-
ister of Agriculture that N. S. Wales ever
had; but Tom didn’t stress the point, and
Pumpkin, who followed him, did. He and
Bruce Smith and Joe Carruthers are the only
three men left in any Parliament who were
Ministerial colleagues of Parkes’s; and
whereas the other two were lawyers who
thrust themselves into a job almost at once,
Syd, the ex-railway porter, had to just plod
along and make himself useful to the old
man.
Back to Australia, Lieut. Phil Harris
(“Philo”), who got away with the Motor
Transport in November, 1914. He took a tiny
printing plant with him and set it to work
on Honk, a troopship paper. Aussie, best-
known of battlefield prints, made its first
appearance in France in January, 1918, by
request of General White, who wanted a
paper for the Diggers. The energetic Harris
was editor, business manager, publisher and
everything else. At times the hunt for paper
and type in the shelled areas almost broke his
heart, but Aussie had got hold of the A.1.F.,
and when the organiser felt inclined to give it
best he used to make a tour amongst the
boys and come back tuned up. During the
printing of the fourth issue Fritz contributed
a bomb, and it proved almost as destructive
as a libel action. Harris intends to resur-
rect Aussie in Australia, and, with most of
its old readers home and dry, it should get
away to a flying start.
E. S. Carr, an ex-M.H.R. who is standing
again for Macquarie (N.S.W.), first won
the seat a dozen years ago as a Laborite. In
the House he was ever a wilful, unexpected
sort of Rep., disregardful alike of party dis-
cipline and of the passing whims of sup-
porters. The trait helped to destroy him in
1917. He came out as a red-hot conscription-
ist and there were many popuß-'s centres
in his constituency where consc >•' ion was
anathema. He went down by a miserable
nine votes —a defeat that was as greatly to
his credit as any man’s victory in the whole
election.
“Old Bloke”; Mention (B. 30/10/’l9) of
the centenary of St. Luke’s, Liverpool
(N.S.W.), recalls the first incumbent—the
Rev. Cartwright, who later shepherded in
Argyle County. His pastoral equipage was
an old State-coach which formerly belonged to
Gov. Macquarie—a huge two-liorse machine,
gorgeously upholstered inside, with a foot-
mans dickey
and sword-box
behind. Parson
Cartwright, who
was also a
magistrate, mar-
ried twice*, his
second wife be-
ing the eldest
sister of the late
J. J. Waddell,
father of ex-
Premier Tom
Waddell, M.L.C.
Doctor H. T. J.
TRACKED
Mayor of Christ -
church and M.D
for Christ-
church East.
Gone to his last stocktaking, Gideon Mor-
rison, one of the founders, and for five years
president of the powerful Vic. Storekeepers'
Assoc. After wandering round the world he
started a store at Camperdown and stayed
there watching his business grow.
“Y.Z.”: Alfred Deakin never had a poli-
tical enemy into whose arms he did not
drift sooner or later. This feature was
neatly summed up by Charley Kingston.
“Deakin,” he said, “is a good fellow; but
he is like those trusting women who marry
rakes in the hope of reforming them.”
Died at Nuriootpa (S.A.), William Sal-
ter, a man who had done much to turn his
native State into a producer of high-class
wines. For many years he was with Hans
Irvine in Victoria, but of late years he had
managed D. and j. Fowler’s vineyards and
cellars at Kalinina. He was the eldest son
of the late Edward Salter, of Angaston, in
the northern garden of S. Australia.
Robert Bell, an Ipswich (Q.) police ser-
geant who recently went to S’Africa con-
fident of annexing a few thousands out of the
intestate estate of James Bell, whom he
hoped to establish as a long lost uncle, failed
to win the sympathetic ear of the Law. All
he got out of his trip was a pat on the back
from the Judge for the honest way in which
he had tried to prove his claim and some of
his costs out of the estate.
Dead at Kew (Vic.) recently, at a great
age, Elizabeth Margaret, widow of Arthur
Septimus King. Septimus was the seventh
son of Philip Parker King, the first Aus-
tralian to reach admiral’s rank. His wife,
the lady who has just died, was the grand-
daughter of Robert Copland Lethbridge, and
his wife was a daughter of Philip Gidley
King, third Governor of N. S. Wales. So
the deceased lady went back to that early
potentate through two channels.
General “Tom” Griffiths, just back from
bossing A.I.F. headquarters, had as much
to do with the London popularity of the
Australians as any single person. Pie is a
genial soul. Once an a.w.l. managed to get
an interview to plead his cause. Encouraged
by the General’s manner, the Aussie aban-
doned embarrassment, and plunged into an
explanation beginning, “It’s this way, Dig-
ger.” Griffiths’s • staff-officer, taking the
General’s memo that an explanation had been
provided, remarked that the soldier had got
off lightly. “I had to let him off,” said
Griffiths. “He called me ‘Digger’!”
Clifford Nash, the much-discussed Vic-
torian parson who left the Anglican Church
and became a Oongregationalist some years
ago, after a rumpus concerning certain mys-
terious “charges” against him, has resigned
the care of the P’ran Congregational
Church, as he considers that “his sphere of
usefulness with this congregation is ended.”
The fact that Clarke has announced his re-
signation as archbishop may have something
to do with Nash’s decision. On the other
hand, it mayn’t.
When trying to rope in dairymen for his
butter-pool scheme Massy Greene told a Vic.
denutation that he knew what it was to
stand in the mud half-way up to his knees
as he bailed cows for milking. As the depu-
tation was filing out of the Minister’s room
an East Gippsland cocky remarked to fellow
deputationists: “Eh. stood in mud half-way
up to his knees, did he? Well, I’ve got a
sow that does it the full length of her legs,
and I don’t know that it helps her to under-
stand pork-marketing.”
[John Barr and Ernest O’Ferrall, 214 George -
street, Sydney; and C. R. Bradish, Old Exchange,
Melbourne. ]
HOMECOMING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
There's a warm wind blowing out of the burnished
West,
There's a smell of musk on the air at the day’s
decline,
And I return once more to your gleaming breast,
Brown, passionate land of mine!
There was beauty and wonder in cities a world
away,
But not by an alien hand can the heart be moved,
And now I loiter by intimate paths and say:
“This, this was the thing 1 loved!”
I have gone lonely and friendless because of you,
Before your veil was raised and your triumph
came:
I was your secret lover; your voice I knew,
Bright land with the deathless name.
And now I know my fate is fixed to the end,
Though the far-off light may lure or the loud
drum call;
Only one star will I follow, one cause defend,
Loved mother, who gave me all.
There’s a shingled roof half-hidden by branching
gums,
There’s a farm with furrowed paddocks of nut-
brown loam,
There’s a winding track,, and a friend who at even-
ing cornea,
There, there will my heart find home.
VICTORIA.
VANCE PALMER.


‘""Miiim
sam
■ ■
HI
Style No. 530.
%
37|6
Per Pair.
F avor ite
Footwear
for City or Country Wear
THE examples of Walking
Boots illustrated or de-
scribed on this page are
very popular, and are representa-
tive of the wide variety of Foot-
wear Styles carried in our stocks.
The City dweller will find in Style
No. 530 a boot which will meet
fully the requirements of the care-
ful dresser. The excellence of the
workmanship is apparent in the
character and fine finish of the
boot.
Style No. 309 provides ideal footwear
for all who walk more than usual.
Possessing a dressy appearance, this boot
provides the maximum of comfort in
the full fittings. The thickness of the
solid sole-leather and the extra width of
welt, together with the sound quality of
the leathers used, produce a splendid
boot for general service and hard wear.
Style No. 530, as illustrated above.
Men’s Fine Quality Tan Calf Lace Boot is made
on Smart Extended Last and has light-
weight welted soles. Choice may be made
of medium or full fittings.
37,6
Style No. 531. '
Men’s Fine Quality Tan Calf Lace Boot, similar in
style and description to illustration, but with slightly
fuller toe and without fancy punching round golosh.
jT j
•S'}/,,
Style No. 532.
Men’s Special Sterling Patent Calf Pace Boot of the Best
Grade. The shape is exactly as illustrated
with dull kid legs. Either medium or
narrow fittings are available.
47/6,52/6
Style No. 309, as illustrated below.
Men’s Black Box Calf Boot, is a good stout grade
of quality, with wide welts and medium-
weight soles. Can be had in either Balmoral
or Blucher cut. Half-sizes and two widths
(medium and wide) are stocked.
35/-
Style No. 310.
Men’s Fine Grade Tan Willow Calf Boot, is made with
i-inch welts and medium soles, in either Blucher
or Balmoral cut. Half-sizes and two widths (medium
and wide) are stocked.
37/6
Style No. 311.
Men's Specially Selected Tan Calf Boot, is warmly recom-
mended to those who require a stout, hard-wearing boot. The
uppers are of specially selected tan calf and the stout, wide-
welted soles are serviceable in the extreme. This boot is stocked
in various qualities, and can be supplied in both medium
and wide-shaped toes. Orders
by post should state whether
medium or broad toes are
desired.
37/6,40/-, 501-
GOWING BROS. LTD.,
Everything for Men s and Boys Wear,
484-490 George Street; 3 to 1 7 Royal Arcade.
Branch Store at 304 GEORGE STREET (near Hunter Street),
SYDNEY.
CUSTOMERS WHO RESIDE AT A DISTANCE.
To any address we send on request, post free, our
SO-page Art Catalogue, which illustrates and
describes many Boot and Shoe Styles and other lines
of wearing apparel for men. Ask for a copy to-day.
Carriage Paid on all Country Orders-
Style No. 309'
35
Per
Pair.
Spy. **'•
!
■ ,
iilM
::
n
• /:.;•. . v T mf.
mm
‘ % m.
ws


A Modern Philosopher, Lecturer and a Great Student writes that Clements Tonic
is certainly a Medicine for the Tired Brain.
THE REVEREND GEORGE WALTERS has had a long and active career as a
Minister of the Unitarian Denomination, as a student of modern philosophy and
Science, and as a literary critic and dramatist.
His church work extends from Lancashire and Aberdeen, United Kingdom, to
Melbourne and Svdney, Australia. He is author of the dramatic works,
f
“Joseph of Canaan,” “Thou Fool,” and “Empire,” or the “Tragedy of Maxi-
millian in Mexico.” He has also been President of the Shakspeare Society of
New South Wales, and is an active member and vice-president of the Dickens
Fellowship.
The following- letter should be read by all students and members of the Literary
„ Societies of New South Wales with exceptional interest:—
CLEHENTS TONIC LTD.
“ I have much pleasure in testifying that I have, at various times, derived much benefit from taking
Clements Tonic.
“ When feeling ‘ run down ’ and in need of 4 winding up,’ or when suffering from brain=fag and nerve
strain, a short course of Clements Tonic has invariably brought relief and consequent re=invigoration.
44 It helps one to say (with little 4 Pippa,’ in Browning’s poem):
44 ‘God’s in His Heaven; all’s right with the World.’”
' “Mosman, Sydney, September, 1918.” “(Signed),
If any greater proof is required of the powers of this splendid medicine, the testi-
monies given afford it, written by those who can well afford by experience to judge of
its merits. For the general good of the public they are published, and are well worth
reading by everyone.
sf
sdf
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle, Sydney, N.S.W.
SEND TO YOUR CHEMIST OR STORE FOR IT TO-DAY. IT IS AS GOOD FOR WOMEN AS FOR MEN.
All the best Society “Catering Functions” are regularly carried out by the “PAVILION,
Z,-.rA
R Aefoiivonf IIIVA C** OtISV.
Society
PENEOLD'S
WINES
A QUESTION OF
TEMPERATURE.
THE FURRIER: “But,
Miss, I don’t think
this coat would be
too warm for you.”
THE GIRL: “Perhaps
not. But the price
is much too hot for
Dad!”
Possibly it is in view of the coming elec-
tions, or it may be because of the racing
carnival: certainly for some reason or other
Public Morality has been bucking up in Mel-
bourne tremendously. Last week it outed
still another petitioner in divorce. The lady
had married at 18. and been deserted
three years later, in 1899; now. having at
length achieved a contingent offer of mar-
riage, she desired her freedom. She said she
had never had the means before, and even
now her brother was finding the money for
the suit. But his Honor would have none
of it. If he studied the petitioner’s inter-
ests, he said, he would grant a decree; but
if persons could come to court after 20 years’
delay and get a divorce as a matter of
routine, the protection of the public against
immorality would be utterly withdrawn. So
the law, in the interests of public morality,
told the woman, in effect, to go away quietly
and “keep house” with the man who wants
to marry her. Public Morality’s other name
seems to be Private Immorality.
* * # *
“Snell” : There was an outbreak of noise
in the village small-goods emporium the other
Friday evening. A whiskered man, very
hefty and thrice armed, since he had his
quarrel just, entered the shop, and, reaching
for the proprietor, drew him half over the
counter and smote him thrice. Then he
stayed to explain. “He’s bin interferin’
with the politics and peace of my home.”
said he. “I’m fer Tom Ryan, and I don’t
care who knows it, but this chap’s bin and
got my wife thinkin’ maybe Billy Hughes
is right, after all. I won’t have my family
contaminated with them ideas, and there’s
worse cornin’ to you if you don’ stop it.”
The ham-and-beef man was spluttering ex-
postulations. “What have I done? How
have I done it? I never spoke a word of
politics to your wife in all my life.” “No,”
replied the wild Ryanite, “but you always
send my bacon wrapped in the Argus.”
* * * *
Among other things that the Federal
Economies Commission unearthed was a
correspondence spreading over a year and
ten months and covering 215 pages of large,
thick, expensive paper about the catching
of rats in Sydney G.P.O. Webster might
have read a poem to the animals and sooner
put them out of their misery.
* # * *
From a Macquarie-street man:—
Apropos the Defence Department’s shockingly bad
proposal to establish a hostel for phthisical patients
in the main street of racketty, dusty Randivick, W.
H. Kelly, says that “none of his medical
friends in Melbourne believes that, where removal is
. possible, sufferers should remain subject to the
humid air of the coast,” and that he couldn’t find
anyone who would certify that a patient was in the
final stage of the disease. I am afraid that his
friends were pulling his leg, since both statements
are opposed to modern medical thought. As for a
Commission to determine whether the coast or the
mountains are the more suitable, it would be quite
a waste of time. It is admitted that in the early
stages mountain air is beneficial, but when the
disease is well established a coastal climate is best.
Handy to Sydney Little Bay is an ideal spot for the
treatment of advanced cases, as it has ample grounds,
mild sea air, good nurses and a competent resident
medical staff. There the patient could be made as
comfortable as possible, with no noise to disturb
him, and no dust to choke him. The nervous system
is in such a had state in advanced phthisis that noise
of any kind cannot be tolerated.
“R.S.V.P.”: One of the most practical
strikes yet organised in Victoria is that of
the children attending the State
school at Echuca (Vic.), 100 of
whom have been coming barefooted
to their lessons because their
’parents object to the high price of
boots. Echuca in the summer-time
is favorable to such a movement, the
experience meaning no hardship to
anybody but the liigh-pricers. A
stout pair of boots for a six-year-old
now cost from 12s. to los., anything
below that being generally either
flimsy or so roughly made as to
inflict discomfort on the wearer;
and there has been
nothing in recent accounts
of manufacturers and re-
tailers’ proceedings to
cause much sympathy for
either. The thoughtful
buyer is also fortified in
his rebellious attitude by
the suspicion that much of
Australia’s leather is go-
mg overseas, by way of the U.S., to provide
little Wilhelm Blutwurst with cheaper boots
than returned Billjim can buy here for his
family.
■* * * *
“Patawalonga”: If an American “gun-
man” pushes in here at Adela’de and does
a little unauthorised shooting lie won’t re-
ceive the applause that Sydney presented to
the Arizona gentleman a few months ago.
This community is getting ala’rmed at the
frequency with which the gun is produced.
A very recent outbreak was at a Port
Adelaide hotel. A discharged barman
appeared in the bedroom of the landlord’s
daughters, shot them both, though not
seriously, fired at their parents, and, after
using a whole lot of cartridges with little
effect, turned the last one on himself with
complete success. The girls say they hardly
knew the man. The same day, at Morgan,
the revolver was used in a case of murder
and suicide. And almost any day the danger
of encouraging the free use of firearms, es-
pecially of the pocket variety, is written on
the wall.
PROGRESSIVE ECONOMY.
MRS. BARGYN-HUNTER: "Why, I saved
twenty-five shillings by buying these
things!”
HER HUSBAND: “You don’t happen to have
the twenty-five that you saved?”
MRS. BARGYN-HUNTER: “Of course not!”
HER HUSBAND: “I thought nut. If you had
you'd spend it and save some more.”
“Copy Boy”: The delivery of his policy
speech at Bendigo was one of Hughes’s most
unimpressive performances. It was a hot
night, and the little man stood on the stage
of the Royal Princess Theatre with a sheaf
of typewritten pages in one hand and the
other thrust into a trouser pocket. He read
the speech from beginning to end. Some-
times he clutched his policy in his right hand
and sometimes in his left, but the disengaged
fist was always in a pocket, except when he
came to the peroration, which he had re-
written in the train on the way from Mel-
bourne. Then he grasped the precious script
in both hands, after the manner of a nervous
baritone at the Ballarat competitions.
When an interjection came along he would
hesitate, seem about to answer it, and
finally disappoint his fervent admirers by
deciding to ignore it. The peroration, end-
ing with the melodramatic invitation “Choose
ye between us!” fell painfully flat, and
Fusion supporters felt relieved when the
dismal affair came to an end and some
vigorous remarks spoken by Willy, Watt,
without the aid of a “book of the words.”
provided the pressmen present with a legiti-
mate excuse for writing “Loud cheers.”.
* * * *
“LeX” notes the French law: —
According to a cable of last week “the trial has
begun of Caillaux before the Senate sitting as a high
court.” In democratic' France a deputy has priv-
ileges which are denied even to peers in effete Eng-
land. He can’t be proceeded against at all unless
he is actually caught en flagrant delit, or unless he
has caused “public clamor.” Another means is
by a special Parliamentary measure taking away his
immunity as a Deputy. The word “trial” used in
connection with the Senate proceedings is a mis-
nomer. They merely amount to an inquiry. At the
end of it the President will probably “commit”
Caillaux, so to speak, and then, after weeks, or
perhaps months, he will face the genuine music. In
the Tunnel case—Tunnel was a Brittany deputy,
charged, like Caillaux, with plotting against the
security of the State—nearly a year elapsed between
the preliminary proceedings and the trial.
* * * *
The plot of ground in Little Collins-
street, occupied until a few years ago by
St. James’s Old Cathedral, which was re-
moved stone by stone to another location, is
to be cleared of its weeds and rubble and
employed to carry a big motor-body works
and garage. The Kellow-Falkiner concern
has bought it. It is a far cry from the chant-
ing of choristers to the noises men make
when investigating the innards of a jibbing
six-cylinder; but the Establishment will at
least have the satisfaction of knowing that
its historic three-quarters-of-an-acre Won't
be used for the setting-up of a beer-ware-
house —that is, if the holy men care tup-
pence about the matter from that aspect.
* * •* *
“Copabella”: It was a civic send-off up
south to an editor. He had not been a popu-
lar editor. Quite the reverse. Hardly a
man in the room but had been scarified by
the editorial harrows. But the dinner was
a “function,” called by
the Mayor, and tile
company thought it
wan well to eat what
wa a. offered. Th e
chairman handled the
affair tactfully; the
toast of the guest was
entrusted to members
o f Parliament—m e n
who are paid for talk-
ing, are not expected
to be sincere, and do
not “count” in h social
sense. A substantial
gift Wfts next handed
over, and Peace Won
through with unruffled
Wings. Then came a
delightful touch. A
Waitress carried round
a fountain-pen and a
document (headed by
the civic crest) on
which those willing
were invited to sign
a n undertaking t o
contribute 10s. towards
the gift! The expres-
sions were a picture,
as man after man put
upon record his tribute
of affection for one most of them hated. One
groaned aloud what the rest thought: “I
could have got as good a feed anywhere for
the money—and a bottle with it ! And this
for that !”
* * * 4*
These “wanteds” jostled one another in a
Maoriland sheet lately :
Assistart Master for Boys’ High School, to instruct
in theoretical and practical agriculture, 'commercial
work and drawing. Salary .£3OO.
Assistant for Technical College, for English,
mathematics hnd general subjects. Salary £230.
Assistant Brewer. Salary £6OO.
Another proof that modern society discour-
ages brains. It will pay twice as much to
one who knows how to steal them away as
to one who is trained to brush them up.
PATIENCE ALWAYS REWARDED.
HOSTESS: “Do yon mean seriously to say you
never missed a meal during the whole of
your absence?”
RETURNED DIGGER: “Not one. Miss. Even
if I ’ad to wait, four or five days for it
I always got it in the end!”
Hobart Mercury engaged Lieut. Long to
fly his ’plane from Hobart to Launceston
the other day and deliver copies of the morn-
ing’s paper en route. The ’plane was due
to make the trip in 2j- hours, reaching Laun-
ceston at 9.15 a.m. Launceston Examiner.
as a rival stunt, undertook with motor-cars
to deliver copies on the road to the North-
west Coast and down Hobart way as far as
Ross, and beat the ’plane. The northern
paper won easily owing to the ’plane getting
lost in a cloud—or perhaps it was a leading
article. It did not arrive in Launceston
until five and a half hours after leaving
Hobart. But it did a fine return fly in
SOmin.
{Continued on pogc 18.)
CUT OUT THE RUMORS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“A minister: ‘Name the ministers who do that.’
Mr. Williams: ‘I said it was a rumor.’ Another
minister: ‘Out out the rumors.’ Congrega-
tional Conference Report.
“I heard at Mrs. Brown's to-day a horrible report.”
Thus Hannah Wowser smugly to her spouse.
“Young Mrs. Sniffkins’ name came up ; they said she
was a ‘sport’
Who staggered home each morning ‘with the cows.’
Or was the phrase ‘the milk’ ? The point, at any rate,
was this,
That she is rarely so —”.... an angry shout
Arose from Wowser. “Cease,” he cried. “Give all
such talk a miss. -
It's rumor, idle rumor. Cut it out!”
“1 always did suspect that girl,” mused Hannah,
undeterred:
“She comes of alcoholic stock, I hear.
She favors gin. Her father, so his dearest friends
averred,
Was ruined.by his fatal love of beer.
And then there are her lovers. If one credits Mrs.
Brown
(Whose word I’ve never yet had cause to doubt),
This Sniffkins wretch has bad affairs with half the
men in town.”
Cried Wowser fiercely: “Rumors! Cut them out!”
“Dear me!” protested Hannah, “don’t you want to
hear the news ?”
“I don’t,” said Wowser. “By this very mail
I've learned from my solicitor that those whom you .
abuse
Can sue me for the slanders you retail.
In future when a stirring batch of rumors come your
way,
No matter whom, or what, they are about.
Or who the authors are, or what old Mrs. Brown may
say,
(You hear me, woman?) cut the lot right out!”
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


rm
%
4
%
•64
iiisssiiiiiiii
1915-6 7-8
Si
&
A
$
VL
SpFt
seas
$V\
£
-ar
>
&
1
I
9*/lt
Vs
>i
\
*4*
%
::;
h
:5S
JK
is
m
v
v 7
Ws
iflpff*®*®
its gscass ■ a aa*#ii»aa«®®'*®*®
•V
LB
ll)
m
£
•*2
</
AT « HOME-COMINGS,” Weddings, Reunions, Evenings—on all the most momentous
occasions of great rejoicing—when there is a spontaneous desire or avis y
bestowing intense pleasure, the PIANOLA PIANO, with an unequalled power for
creating happiness, comes fully into "its own” Then you especially see and understand
why this instrument so richly deserves its universal popularity.
For Dancing, Singing, Playing-
Music of grand quality in unlimited
variety is thus easily and instantly
available without need of effort or
special qualifications for producing.
PIANOLA PIANOS
Are Available tn the
Steinway, Steck, Stroud, Aeolian,
Farrand and English-made \^eber
Enlist the Pianola’s assistance tor
your home entertaining. The new
Pianola Song Rolls are another
winning factor in giving to the
PIANOLA PIANO the pre-
eminence it is entitled to.
~. , - . ■* SVent ’ Pianos accepted in part payment if desired\ or a small mittal deposit
'prompt deUrencan £!£•£»> „„ se „, graft,, or d*mn*,Ho» g™-
THE PIANOLA COMPANY Pty. Ltd.
384 George Street, SYDNEY


'PATON
J 5
10688
The DrinK of ibe
Connoisseur —is
BRINDS
WHISKY
MILD
MELLOW
To meet the
demand
TOOHEYS
have brewed a
Special Stout
Equal to Imported.
TRY IT.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
A RTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
General Smith, V.C., M.C., who com-
manded the Imperial Camel Brigade from
start to finish, tells the yarn. He was argu-
ing with Maxwell, the G.0.C., while they
drove through Cairo in a car, that it was
as well not to insist too much on saluting
from Australians. Maxwell, however, rec-
koned it could and should be carried out
while he was on top. Just then they passed
an Aussie standing on the koib, hands in
pockets, gazing apparently right at and
through them. Maxwell had the car stop-
ped and called the ’trooper over. “Don’t
you know an officer when you see one?” in-
asked. “Oh, yes,” said the Digger. “And
do you know what to do when you see one?”
Again a cheerful affirmative from the soldier.
“Well, didn’t you see me?” crescen-
doed the General. “Well, yes,” drawled
the lad. “Then why didn’t you salute?”
“Well, to tell you the truth,” grinned the
Billjim, tipping back his, hat and scratching
his head, “I was lorst in thought.”
“A.F.P.” : With an amplifier, a couple of
lengths of wire, a few earth pins, a pair of
’phones and some juice, an inquisitive per-
son with plenty of hide could pick up good
news. He could place his earth pins near,
say, the office of some successful racing man,
Stock Exchange gambler or politician. If
they used the "’phone an amplifier could pick
up the voice quite easily. On the other
hand, if the listener wished to hear some
BIRDS OF A FEATHER.
PROFITEER PATRON: “Five guineas, eh?
Don’t it make you feel afraid of this
profiteering talk of Hughes’s?”
wireless news he could with a good amplifier
take Pennant Hills signals. When tired of
the wireless note, he could ply his earth
pins near soine busy telegraph-office and take
a few telegrams. During the war the amplifier
picked up telephone, voice and Morse, signals
from a great distaixce. Fritz soon gave his
men the tip not to chatter over wire, issu-
ing specially-printed postcards depicting a
French telegraphist listening to thoughtless
German officers or men on telephone or
Morse Hires. In the early part of the war
valuable information leaked to the enemy,
too. But the policing of active sectors with
amplifiers kept our side quiet, as well as
making the enemy very careful.
“The Camello”: Say this, too, for the
Digger—he’ll see that even his worst enemy
gets a fair deal. He has nothing to thank
the white popu-
lation of Cairo
for. Because of
his independence
they xegarded
Billjim as a
dreadful person.
Yet this is what
he did. When
the riots broke
out in Cairo in
March this year,
the heads were
so short of meu
that a special
appeal was made
for volunteers
amongst the
patients in the
14th A. G. IL.
A b b a s s i a, to
protect the
small while
population, and the result was a mus-
ter of 350 men out of about 550 to
600 patients, and nearly all the
balance were totally incapacitated.
These volunteers were “boarded” men
awaiting transport to Australia.
None of them could be Classed as lit
for the field; but in the emergency
they volunteered and were accepted.
1 did not notice any bouquets thrown
in their direction by Allenby, or any-
one else for that matter, though by
thus volunteering they lost their
chance of early repatriation to the only
country most of them had a thought for.
“Barney” : There were hatfuls of Turkish
coins and notes for those who got in early
during the hist big stunt in Palestine. At
Beisan and Afule notes were to be had for
the picking up, and here and there some
gold. The Aussies lived up to their reputa-
tion as millionaires when they hit Damascus.
One Digger gave a wallad the job of holding
his horse. On his return in 10 minutes he
opened a despatch case, pulled out a note at
random and gave the kid the shock of his
life —a fortune for holding a horse for 10
minutes ! The notes were worth almost their
face value for the first day or two; but
they soon dropped till you could scarcely sell
them by the peck.
* * » *
Noting by the papers in the Vic. Lands
Department that a soklier-settler who pro-
posed to have a tliree-roomed home built on
the block of Tahara land he had taken up
was the father of 10 children, the Govern-
ment architect wrote a minute submitting
that things would be. pretty un-
comfortable for 10 kids in- such
limited accommodation. The minute
was referred to the applicant, who
replied repudiating the 10 children.
Then the Department had another
look at the papers and found that
“no” had been mistaken for “10.'
The orchards of Victoria a re-
loaded with exceptional crops
of apples and pears and a
record glut is in prospect.
Two hundred Billjims have al-
ready been repatriated into the
fruit-growing industry, many oc
them on established orchards from
which the owners have escaped ;
and their immediate prospects
promise penury in the midst of
plenty. Everard, M.L.A., of Evelyn,
mentioned the matter in the As-
sembly, and was told by Oman.
Minister for Applecxxlture, that
“efforts were being made to induce
the Imperial Government to divert
insulated shipping space to Aus-
tralia.” A country which did the
fair thing by itself would have (1)
a large manufacturing population
to eat the fruit; (2) a full supply
of home-grown sugar to can the fruit,
and (3) enough home-grown ships to
export the surplus of canned and frozen
fruit. It is cruelty aggravated by foolish-
ness to place Billjim in an industry which
is in a continual state of embarrassment
over the disposal of its produce.
* * * *
“Centurion” : The final regulations govern-
ing the issue of the British war medal. 1914-
1919, are about as gxatifying to the firing-
line as distinguished from the base as those
goveiming the 1914-15 Bronze Stax*. All
officers and men of the British dominions are
to get the silver medal with its ribbon of
blue, white, black and orange. So are “women
enrolled for service with H.M. Imperial
Forces,” including, presumably, those per-
fect ladies, the “Wrafs.” Then come mem-
bers of “authorised organisations,” which
will cover the Y.M.C.A. and kindred shows,
and “eni’olled followers of the Indian Army.”
Lastly, all niggers, Chows and other assorted
breeds of the Labor Corps. (Old South
Africans will recall the parallel issue of the
King’s and Queen’s medals to the nigger
transport drivers in that war.) The bronze
THEIR WARMEST ADMIRERS.
“I’m surprised you- girls don’t get frost-
bitten!”
“ Rubbish! Why, the tray sonic men look at
us gives us sunburn.”
“Victory Medal” with its double rainbow rib-
bon will be restricted to those who “entered
a theatre of war on duty,” including the per-
fect ladies again, but only “enlisted” ones.
The Labor Corps is in the same box as the
unauthorised ladies ; so we will be spared the
sight of the Victory ribbon on the new vege-
table John. Men of the mercantile marine
will get the War medal; but as regards
the Victory they are in the same class
as the unauthorised ladies.
* * * ■»>
“Tin Hat”: For the first time within
the memory of the oldest hand the postman
had come up the stairs into the factory.
“I wanter find a bloke name of Tom Stiffey,”
he announced in a voice like a foghorn ; "I
gotter registered letter fer him, and lie’ll
’ave ter sign fer it.” Now, Tom’s the sec.
of the shop Tatt.’s syndicate, and his eyes
Indged like doorknobs. “Struth, boys!” he
said, “we’ve ’it it at last! Must be a good
prize or they wouldn’t ha’ registered it.”
Smiling like a hyena he scrawled his name
in the receipt-book, took the envelope and
split it with his thumb. Slowly he drew
forth a large blue document, peered into it,
and cast it from him with a sti'ing of oaths
It fell close beside me, and I saw that it was
a summons issued against Thomas Stiffey by
the Union for £3 12s. Cd. contributions un-
paid.
* * * *
The dearth of dancing men has forced
hostesses to start trapping jazzers. The
older and more eligible bachelors are (he
most persistent shirkers. The commonest
method is for the dance-giver to collaborate
with a matron outside the family circle.
She invites the intended victims to dinner
and bridge—the nice comfy sort of evening
which appeals to the average male over 30.
After dinner the lady falsely explains to her
prey that the card-playing takes place at a
neighboring house where the young people
are two-stepping. Then she leads her party
straight into the arms of the jazzers—too
late for the wretched men to beat a retreat.
At least the weaker males find it too late;
but the other night a couple of pxeir of a
more sophisticated type said good-night and
went home.
* . * * *
A vast number of women are said to be
suffering from “vegetable-silk” stockings.
Certainly some of them are. Nobody, least
of all the young man behind the hosiery
counter, seems to know what the mock silk
is made of, but, whatever the material and
chemicals employed in the manufacture of
this popular work of deceit, the results of
displaying a shiny stocking at a compara-
tively reasonable price are alarming in some
cases. The understandings become inflamed
—in front, as a rule; fair Belinda's legs have
been poisoned by false pretences. She needs
protecting by a Pure Clothing Act. The pos-
sible penalty of wearing a sham silk stock-
ing on an open flea-bite is too dreadful to
contemplate.
“Country I’ed”: Vic. Education Depart-
ment builds its country teachers’ residences
under an Act which specifies that the rent
shall be 5 per cent, of the cost of the build-
ing. An old Departmental pal of mine, after
nearly 12 months’ slogging, got a residence
built for him—three unpainted rooms and
“conveniences.” The 5 per cent, works out
at 9s. 2d. a week (£23 lUs. Sd. per annum).
No other three-roomed residence that I know
of is rated at more than £9 per annum. But
it is his bad luck to have to occupy a place
that was built when costs were slcy-high.
Isn’t it a mad ari*angement? Incidentally,
the railway stationmaster in that man’s town-
ship has a seven-roomed residence rent free!
If rent-paying is applicable to teachers, it
should apply to all Government employees.
The policeman gets his house or an allow-
ance in lieu of rent; so do the medical offi-
cers in the Lunacy Department; so do sta-
tionmasters and gangers employed by the
Railway Department. If these, why not the
country teacher? Why should he always be
the worm that is trodden on ?
“R io”: It is commonly assumed that
Duntroon and Jervis Bay play. the same
roles, one for our land, the other for our
sea forces. That is quite erroneous. The
great body of our military power is a citi-
zen militia, with its leaders drawn from
its own ranks, the comparatively small
number of permanent officers being, primarily
trained-as" technical experts to carry on tne
administrative work in peace, to work out
defence schemes, to instruct junior officers
and to act as staff-officers and technical ad-
visers to the citizen leaders in war, only
assuming actual command themselves on
their merits. In the navy, however, it is the
permanent force that overwhelmingly pre-
ponderates. The Duntroon boy enters at
about 17 when he has finished his school-
days. He is instructed by a staff that is
entirely Australian as far as the civil pro-
fessors and military n.c.o.’s are concerned,
and only partly British as regards the officer-
instructors. lie, therefore, remains Austra-
lian in his outlook and attitude to the ser-
vice. The Jervis Bay midshipman is taken
at the much more impressionable age of 13,
and is taught almost entirely by officers and
petty officers of the R.N., who, when it
CONSIDERATE.
REEDY : “Did you ever intend to pay Wil-
liams for that suit he made you?”
NEEDY: “No, I’m afraid not.”
REEDY: “ Weil, what on earth made you
haggle with him over the price when
you ordered it?”
NEEDY: “Consideration for him, deah boy.
I wanted the poor fellah to lose as
little as .possible.”
comes to an Australian versus British view-
point, naturally take the British. The Jervis
Bay trained officer is, therefore, far more
likely to be out of sympathy with his Aus-
tralian crew than the Duntrooner with his
subordinates. If any proof is wanted that
the officers of the two services are regarded
differently, one has only to go to the “social”
columns of our papers. Military permanent
officers ax-e vei-y seldom asked, as such, to
“society” functions, but naval officers are in-
vited en bloc, down to the most junior and
non-executive ranks.
FELINA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
She’s a playful little kitten,
With a subtle, feline grace,
And a skin to match the petals of a rose.
Though the wretched youth is smitten,
Soon he’ll curse her pretty face,
For she lives to dip her feet in silken hose.
Sweet Felina, lovelier growing,
By the prowling male is sought;
Wealthy youngster, scheming rake and bald-head
gay
Swarm around her, so well knowing
Charming pussies give no thought
To the morrow, on a merry summer’s day.
She’s a sleek and sinful tabby
In a sixty-guinea fur,
Crying out for gilded lovers as her right;
But her flesh is growing- flabby,
Though she still knows how to purr,
And her tears are very scalding in the night.
For the fangs of Time have bitten,
Though her mirror still may lie.
“Oh! to be a tame house cat!” her one desire;
Playing with a fluffy kitten,
With the love light in her eye,
Flinging back a happy message by the fire.
But her slaves are growing scornful;
Still they seek the charms of youth,
And her cheek has lost its dimple
When she smiles....
There’s a tabby, sad and mournful,
Who has learned the bitter truth
That her feet are set for ever on the tiles.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
WILLIAM JAMES DIGGER.


,14
:
a
m
-
■ .
'
■
H
9
1
I
m
■
■
m
«i
r
V
n
m
<K
/
■ll
n:
IE!
-
m
mmmm
.
Post
m
a
\ •14
f r
Rost Card
for
a
Pr
List
mm
m
i
$
■
M
Arms Full of Evidence
WHEN you buy tyres, you are a deal more in-
terested in what other motorists have to say
about them than in what the salesman says
For that reason we back our salesmen s claims with
convincing proof in the actual words of users of
our Tyres.
The following extracts are from a few of the hun-
dreds of letters which may be seen at any time at
our Sydney Office.
“ This tyre is still on my Ford and has already covered 10.000
miles. This is beyond doubt the best tyre I have ever fitted.*'
J. J. BYRNE., Cowra. NSW
“The set has been in constant use.doing 11.00 C miles. covering
all sorts of roads within a 30 miles radius of Sydney.”
A. M STEPHENSON, Sydney
•• Mr. Edwin Murray has been running a Perdriau Tyre on a
Studebaker 4 cylinder car for two years and estimates the distance
run about 22,000 miles, the car running constantly for that period,
carrying big loads over rough roads.”
E C. MURRAY. Kootingal
Your Garage or the Manufacturers will supply you.
THE PERDRIAU RUBBER COY LTD.
SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE ADELAIDE
And PERTH
sdf
Australian
Byres


E
*9
SCICE
PLUG
kt-Vvi'hjF-W
The
finest
TOBACCO
in
two forms—
Plug-Slice
or
} Ready-Rubbed,
“EDGEWORTH
fsd
Hotel c/e Luxe.
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL. Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS, surrounded by NATURAL
BUSH.
25 NEW BEDROOMS built over the water —
every room looking out to the Heads.
lIALF-lIOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty. Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from Mos-
man. Amphitheatre Swimming
Baths. Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Tariff from 12/6 per day or
£3/10/- per week.
Tel. Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
A Signal Success
orgelV
The TOPWOTCHScotck
ABORIGINAHTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“The Coper”: The best horseman I ever
saw was “Tiger” Thornton, liorsebreaker at Warenua
and Toolebuc (Q.) in 1907 or thereabouts. The
then manager of Toolebuc told me that Thornton had
broken in about 100 horses on the place, and he had
never seen him even put to the pommel. One par-
ticular red roan horse, that afterwards kicked him-
self to death in the Boulia coach, had been yarded
two years in succession, and had crippled himself
so badly that he had to be let go on both occasions.
The third year Tiger saddled him in the crush, got
on him, and had the gates opened. Redskin made
straight for the open downs. Then, suddenly re-
membering that he had a passenger on board, he
treated us to such an exhibition of bucking as 1
never expect to see again; but Tiger rode him to
a standstill without touching the saddle with a hand.
Incidentally the best horse 1 ever rode was a bay
half-brother to this outlaw. He was 16 hands 1
inch tall, and three-parts thoroughbred. llis record
journey was from Toolebuc to Middleton and back
in the da} - —108 miles.
“K.T.A.” ; Ten yeans ago at Binnaringee
Soak, oO miles from Norseman (W.A.), a litter of
six dingo pups was found. Five were killed and the
sixth was brought to Bullfinch. This dog has never
shown any bad temper, and is petted by children.
He was kept on a chain when young, otherwise he
would have gone away With dingoes whose howls lie
answered. He lias never mated with a tame slut,
but lie used to leave bones near a dump for a wild
lady-friend, signalling by howls that the feast was
spread. She was quite venturesome, and came close
to the camp. One night- an uncomprehending person
shot her. Bonny, as we call him, rabbits differently
from a tame dog, going straight for his prey. When
young he was afraid of tame dogs, and used to
tremble when lie saw one; but age has hardened him,
and the other day he had a great fight with the
house-dog, tor which assault he was walloped, where-
upon he took himself off to Lis friends the children
at school.
“Y.Z.” : They were discussing a local resi-
dent named Kite over two beers at Midway, and
said the horseman: “1 don’t say that Kite is mad,
not actually mad; but J do know that he tried to
enter himself as a white wyandotte at the Clayball
show the other day.”
“Melos”: Let me heave a brick at the man
who said that bloodwood is of no economic \alue.
For rough building purposes it has few equals, being
eery durable, easily worked and practically fire-
proof. The finest bush dwelling I ever saw was built
of this vegetable, its broad smooth slabs being as
presentable as chamfer-boards, and its shingled roof
equal in worth and appearance to any built of more
costly materials. From the apiarist’s point of view
bloodwood is of great value, as its prolific bloom is
rich in bee food. Further, the sap might be turned to
account. Cupping- a “vein” at a certain time of
the year induces a copious supply of claret-colored
fluid which is useful in cases of rheumatic pains and
muscular stiffness. Many of the old bushmen swear
by it. I ha\e also seen a serviceable die prepared
from the dried sap.
“J.H.Q.” : A N. Queensland man recently
asked in The Bulletin for a dinkum check to the
cobra pest, which, because he was unable to pay
the high price of copper sheeting, was devouring
his craft. Here’s what he’s looking for. Having
finished building, and before painting, let the boat
manufacturer make a solution of 21b. soda and lib.
arsenic in one gallon of water, boiling till all are dis-
solved. Paint this solution well over the bottom
of the boat (outside, of course) up to or a little
above the water-line. Apply several coats, letting
each dry well in. Next, mix arsenic one part, asplial-
tum two parts, linseed-oil one part over a gentle fire
by constant stirring. * When thoroughly melted and
mixed stir in enough kerosene to reduce the mixture
to the consistency of paint. The above parts are
by weight. A pint of linseed-oil weighs a little
over lib. Better add the kerosene at some dis-
tance from the fire. Paint the bottom to the water-
line with this eompo. Two, or at most three, coats
will be enough and should last the season. At the
end of a season haul the boat out, rub off any
roughness, dry thoroughly, and re-paint with the
mixture. If possible, pick a clean, sandy bottom
and beach for your home mooring, as the worm
is not so plentiful there as on a muddy, mangrove-
lined coast. Note: Do not use tar or pitch instead
cf asphaltum. The latter is cheap and easily got,
and I believe is produced in Australia. Ask John
Fell and Co.
“Gouger”: Heard the Devil’s own row in
a deep scrub glade the other day. Pushing softly
through the lawyer-vines, 1 saw, on a space of clear
ground, two wild boars foaming at the snout and
addressing each other in the half-roaring, half-grunt-
ing language common to untamed pork in anger.
AN OUT-AND-OUTER.
DOBBS: "Is Jimson a prohibitionist?”
BROWN: “ Rather! lie can’t bear to see even a storm brewing.”
The attack was a sidewise rush, then a charge in
at close quarters, a push sideways with the powerful
shoulders and a strong upward thrust of the head,
the idea being to rip open the adversary’s abdomen.
The boars were well matched, so that when the
powerful shoulders met neither could throw the other
to the ground. One of the pigs was bleeding badly
from a rip in the flank, and suddenly he turned and
ran, with the other boar close behind him. Passing
a tree-trunk, the pursuing boar heaved sideways,
shouldering his enemy against the timber. Heaving
his head under the other’s belly, he propped dead
still. The running boar passed on, leaving a trail
of entrails on the ground. Feeling somehow dis-
satisfied with the whole show, I up-ended the rifle
on the victor, and while he was still furiously goring
his dying enemy, shot him.
“Henry Ayrshire” : I can assure “Hall
Markc” (B. 25/9/’l9) that his method of' ascer-
taining direction, when bushed ,by using a razor as,
a compass is useless unless he magnetises the blade.
Any piece of steel that is magnetised will point
in the line of north and south it' suspended by a
thread, but a razor, blade is not magnetic, and is
just as likely to point east and west. Anyway,
wouldn't “Hall Marke” find a pocket compass a
darned sight easier to carry than a razor?
* * # #
“Jim Carew”: When droving in Central
Australia some 40 years ago (a dangerous pastime in
those .’days) I several times came across strongly-
built humpies with all the entrances tightly shut.
As this was contrary to Binghi’s custom
we broke into them and found the floors
entirely covered with bones and skulls,
some of them human. These huts were
always built in out-of-the-way places on
the bank of a creek. An old nig. I knew
pitched a pretty tall yarn about them,
but it seems reasonable enough. The
abos. thereabouts, I gathered, were more
than usually superstitious, and the spirit
which watched over them would not allow
them to kill off their old people, so
humpies were built, and the aged shut
in with a big supply of food. The tribe
then moved on. If it happened to come
along that way again and the ancients
were still alive, more food was put in,
but nobody cared much what happened
after the first disposal. I saw no traces of any-
thing being left to contain water, but perhaps the
facP of the huts always being on the bank of a
creek had something to do with the water supply.
“D.F.'’: If Cadibarrawirricanna, up in
the north of S. Aus., west of Lake Eyre, isn't the
longest place-name in Australia, it ought to be. It
makes Cootanoorrina, in the same district, look
small, and loses such short and simple titles as
Chillingollah and Buekrabanyule, which are about
the best that Vic. can show. Even the quite un-
spellable names in parts of Westralia don’t run to
20 letters.
“Pongo”: Tuart (Eucalyptus gomphoce-
phala) is a magnificent timber, very hard and tough
and far from being “a bit despised” as “L. Wood ’
(B. 18/9/’l9) wrote. It is extensively used for
wheelwright work in W.A. In the karri and jarrak
forests the naves of big 10ft. wheels of timber -
whims are constructed of tuart. The Pioneer flour
mills, one of the first in W.A., had a plant built
entirely of wood, and tuart was used for cogs on
the wheels. The Government by substituting tuait
for steel in the manufacture of under-carriages in
railway trucks has effected a saving in mainten-
ance of £3 10s. 6d. per annum per truck. Tuart
grows in one locality only in W.A., the limestone
belt lying across the coast between Lake Pinjai on
the north and tlie Sabina River on the south, about
12 miles from Busselton. I have seen trees 100 ft.
high with a diameter of seven to eight feet. In these
days the cutting of this timber on Grown Lands is
prohibited except for Departmental requirements.
“Hay”: "Ida D.” (B. 2/10/’l9) notes
the habit big trees have of collapsing in the dead
calm which often comes before, a fall of rain. This
phenomenon was remarked upon by the very earliest
settlers. It is not only the big growing trees that
THE SUPER-SWAG.
“Yairs! But wot a fool a bloke’d look
’umpin’ that about the country!”
clash. Old dead timber that has weathered : many
a gale will come down. I can only ascribe it to the
fact that the weight of moisture in the atmosphere
puts too severe a strain upon the trees’ resistance.
Another strange thing is frequently noticed to pre-
cede plentiful rains. Springs that have been appa-
rently quite dried begin to rise days or even weeks
before the rain comes.
(Continued on page 22.)
PROVIDENCE AND INSURANCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“With sufficient electric power it should be pos-
sible to completely control the rainfall.” —Alleged
scientific statement.
“Though a man might burn his house or scuttle
his ship to collect the policy money, no one could
tamper with the rainfall.” —Daily paper.
Jupiter Pluvius winked his eye,
And west of the Darling the land went dry.
The sun was a furnace from morn till night,
And the hot earth quivered when stars grew white.
The grass was gone; and the pale scrub seemed
Like a hellish growth that a devil dreamed.
The saltbush itself had the drought so fixed
That it tasted like ashes and sawdust mixed ;
Yet Bill had a heartful of joy and cheer,
For his income stood through the burning year.
Jupiter Pluvius winked again,
'And the land was deluged with hissing rain.
At first they counted the fall by points,
While the earth drank deep at a thousand joints;
Then it swelled to inches and grew to feet,
Till the grass had oceans of mud to eat;
And at last in the pub you heard men say:
“The rainfall was only three yards to-day” ;
Or, where horses were bred, they would sometimes
sigh,
“That last little shower was twelve hands high.”
Yet Bill had a sober and serious view
Of a plentiful season with work to do.
Jupiter Pluvius went to sleep,
And forgot about bullocks and horses and sheep;
And a man with some wire and instruments came
And took up his job in humanity’s name.
Electric currents he twisted and turned,
Till the sun was hot and the landscape burned,
Or the rain came down with an even flow,
Or the south wind blew and it turned to snow ;
And the cabbage and lettuce and all things knew
The simple job they were meant to do,
For the weather that fostered the leaf and root
M'as arranged for grasses and stock and fruit.
A NOTHER MIGHT-HAVE-BEEN.
FIRST WREKED AIRMAN : "Here’s a steamer
bearing down upon us.”
SECOND DITTO: “Just my luck! The d -
fish arc starting to bite.”
Each day of the week as the clock struck four,
The tank was filled by the wash-house door;
And twice in the month, just to make things sure,
The growing crops had a shower of manure.
But Bill, whose insurance was duly paid,
Couldn't see what difference these things made.
For Bill’s selection was mostly rock,
And the wettest sandstone will not feed stock;
And the scrub grew high and the prickly-pear
Had a grip on the soil where the depth was fair;
And Bill, with a heart that was full of fear,
Looking sadly over his sixteenth beer,
M'as able to see at a single glance
That an old-man drought was his only change.
Cunning as men who stalked the Turks,
He went by night to the good rain-works;
He crept to the window with stealth and sin
And took off liis boots and clambered in.
Then he pulled a lever with might and main
And heavily clambered out again.
The moon went red, the stars went green,
And the clouds were orange that swam between ;
And the sun came up with a rush and roar,
Though he knew it still was the day before.
The gum-trees qreaked and the scrub went brown
And the birds in their morning flight fell down,
For the sudden drought that old Bill had made
Mas four hundred and ninety-nine in the shade!
Bill had tempted Providence oft and sore.
And he meant to tempt it a few years more,
But his pitiful end was swiftly seen
M hen Providence worked through a wise machine;
For the sandstone rock and the prickly-pear
Broke out in flames on the morning air;
And Bill himself, when the heat-wave sank,
Mas found boiled white in a steaming tank !
And the neighbors remarked as they pulled him out,
“He was well insured in ease of drought.”
K.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


The All-Australian Novel
There is no article more Australian than the “Bookstall” novel —•
WRITTEN BY AUSTRALIANS.
PRINTED BY AUSTRALIANS. '
ILLUSTRATED BY AUSTRALIAN ARTISTS.
READ BY AUSTRALIANS.
The N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO.. LTD., has been a pioneer of Australian fiction pub-
lishing. For many years it has encouraged the local writer, and as a direct result of
its enterprise many first-class volumes have been provided for Australian fiction
readers.
Results have been most gratifying to both authors and publishers; no less than
2,000,000 Novels Have Already Been Sold
The explanation of the popularity of the Series is provided by this list
of contributing authors: —
STEELE RUDD.
ARTHUR WRIGHT.
THOS. E. SPENCER.
NORMAN LINDSAY.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
E. J. BRADY.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
E. S. SORENSON.
EDWARD DYSON.
AMBROSE PRATT.
BEATRICE GRIMSHAW.
A. G. STEPHENS.
LOUIS BECKE.
jack McLaren.
J. H. M. ABBOTT.
JOHN SANDES.
The novels by these foremost of Australian authors and many others
of lesser note are sold by all bookstalls and booksellers in the Common-
wealth at the wonderfully low price of
Is. each. Is. l£d. posted.
Write for a free Complete Catalogue.
BUY AUSTRALIAN NOVELS.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL GO. LTD.,
476 George Street, SYDNEY.
(A&
m
<s
jpERSONAL PRIDE should dictate
die exercise of extreme care in {he
selection of Gem Rings. To facilitate {his
Drummond’s haVe issued a ver}) exclusive
Catalogue, representative of {heir choice
selections, and illustrating man}) neW and
exquisite examples of {he highest grade
Workmanship. This Booklet Will he
for Warded post free to country) residents.
Wm. Drummond & Co
344-346 Collins Street, Melbourne
Why Swelter in the Summer Heat?
Men’s “TUSSOCOOL” Suits
Ready-to-Wear.
Comfort in Summer is to a great extent a
matter of wearing suitable clothes, let the
thermometer rise ever so high. You won't
feel the heat in a Leviathan '‘Tussoeool”
Suit.
“Tussoeool” Suits, skilfully tailored as illus-
tration. from strongly-woven Egyptian
Cotton, Tussorettes —which improve with
washing and ironing—plain or striped de-
signs. in biscuit, stone or straw shades, loose
facings and removable bottoms for washing.
Sizes 3 to 7.
Ready-
to-wear.
Macte-to-
measure.
“TUSSOCOOL” SUITS
(3 garments) 47/6 55/-
Coat and Trousers 42/- 50/-
Trousers only 15/6 17/6
Suits measuring over 3Sin. chest, 2/6 extra.
Suits measuring over 42in. chest, 5/6 extra.
Write for Free Patterns of “Tussocool”
Suitings and New Summer Folder.
“TUSSORA” SHIRTS.
“Tussora” is as light and cool as silk, but it wears
better by far. These shirts have the appearance
of best Tussore Silk, fashioned with Gauntlet
Cuffs, split sleeves and sleeve lifts, soft “Rivers-
dale” Collar supplied FREE with each shirt.
11s. 6d. each (3 for 33/9).
ORDER BY POST.
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
! k<m
m
NOW READY.
SUMMER
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOG.
Fres on Application.
Leviathan
Cr. Swanston & BourKe Streets, Melbourne
PLEASE NOTE-WE HAVE NO BRANCHES.
5C
m
ti
hm.
II
Australian—and Equal to the World’s Best
Industry is Australia’s best asset. It is
more to her than treasures of gold or
silver. By its industries it will be made
secure. Australia can produce the goods,
but she needs your help.
'‘WUMtf
Powder SHEEP DIP
is an Australian product, made from Australian materials—
and is equal to the world's best. Its reliable quality, its
definitely destructive actioq upon all sheep - infesting
vermin, and its long-lasting efficacy have made it the
Standard of Perfection. Maybe, because it’s Australian,
you’te overlooking its worth. Why not investigate ?
ALL STORES CAN SUPPLY
Manufactured by A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.
MELBOURNE - SYDNEY . BRISBANE


ART METAL CEILINGS.
Sterling facts*
concerning Metal Ceilings.
On Economic and Artistic Points Stamped Steel is now employed for every class of Building—
ECONOMICALLY, because of its Permanency, Adaptability, Simplicity in Fixing, and light weight for Transport.
ARTISTICALLY, because it is the best possible medium for accurately reproducing the modeller’s art.
Illustrated Catalogue Post Free.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED,
MANUFACTURERS.
SHOWROOMS:—SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, BRISBANE, HOBART, LAUNCESTON.
HEAD OFFICE AND WORKS: Baptist Street, Red fern, N.S.W. POSTAL ADDRESS: Box 47 4 G.P.0., Sydney.
TRADE MARK.
“Pooncarie”: Talking about endurance.
At 10 o’clock on a summer evening in the late
’seventies a policeman rode out of one of John
Pile’s stations, on the Darling, into the West. His
job was to obtain all possible particulars of the
death and to bury the remains of two swagmen who
had perished in the bush from thirst. That done the
trooper turned his horse’s head for home and arrived
at the homestead at 9 o’clock on the night follow-
ing his departure. Distance covered, 13G miles ; mid-
day temperature under a bark roof, 127 degrees; no
drink or food taken throughout the journey by man
or beast. Darling-pea ended the daj's of this honest
old horse about 10 years later. The then trooper
is one of the police pensioners whom a State Minister
recently advised to go and get work.
“H. 0.”: “Septem” (P». 9/10/T9) asked
for something to put into troughs, dams etc., in
districts where glanuers is prevalent. Well, while
this isn’t a cure for glanders, it will prevent the
spread of the trouble. Make a solution with chloride
of lime (bleaching powder) ; strength, lib. to 400
gallons of water; wash thoroughly all utensils used
by horses with the mixture, and if possible soak
them for 30 minutes. This will clear out any
infection. As regards water-dams, use the same
proportions. The only difference is that it takes
longer to sterilize the water if much vegetable mat-
ter is in the dam. The water is fit for drinking
after 24 hours.
“Veronal” : Tom Ward, in bis “Rambles.”
describes a reptile known to Westralians, he says,
as the “jumping snake.”' It is about Ift. in length
and has a pair of legs with five-toed feet. These
leg: are about 2in. long, and the beast can spring a
distance of five feet. Color, greyish-black, shaded
in parts with green, the underparts lighter. The
legs are dull flcsh-color, and the head and body
resemble those of an ordinary snake. The creature
is really a lizard, and it dines chiefly on slugs,
worm.:, grasshoppers and probably flies. It re-
sembles certain Westralian lizards described to
me by a pearler. The males of this species during
the honeymoon season mount on stones, and after
curtseying to each other for a time, rush forward
and engage in battle. Meanwhile the casus belli, a
female, watches operations from a safe distance.
After the combat is over the victor hops off with
.the lady.
* * * *
“Pouclier” : “Frank R.’s” fox (B. 25/9/T9)
caught near Lisinore (N.S.W.), which weighed
22-Rb. and measured sft. lin., can have second place
to one snared in the Helidon district (Q.) last year.
It weighed 301 b. and taped sft. 9in.
AN APT PUPIL.
“Did you know Mr. Smith was studying lanyuaycs?”
“Yes, and making such progress, too! I heard him when he slipped in the bath this
morning.”
“Zanthus”: There is a hint for the butter-
factories in the trick of a Clonmel (Ireland) dairy-
woman who was given a free passage to N. S. Wales
a century ago. She got a dead man’s hand from the
churchyard and used to put it in her cream before
she churned it. The theory was that it greatly
increased the yield of butter.
“Priscilla Prink”: There’s an affidavit
attached to this. At Iviama (N.S.W.) a toddler
found a black snake, lugged it home, and, unseen
by anybody, put it in a box. Later on the father
was told by another kid that the new pet wouldn't
stay in his house. Dad investigated and found
his enterprising infant trying to keep the deadly
crawler in the box by patting its head!
LOOKING WELL AHEAD.
“You see. the trouble about Bill is that he’s
alius afore the times!”
“Wot's 'e done?”
“Well, ’e went away to look for work , an’
’e finds there’s a. strike on, so ’e joins
the strikers afore ’e yets the job!”
“Wandi”: Wedge-tailed eagles are un-
usually plentiful this year in the Riverina and
Monaro (N.S.W.) country, but I have never seen
them so numerous anywhere as in the dry West.
Large flocks circle over almost every Western home-
stead both in N.S.W. and Queensland. One man
at Hughenden (Q.) station killed 250 in three weeks.
At another place the cook amused himself by feeding
the birds outside the kitchen door. For awhile he
would throw small pieces of meat into the air, which
they snapped up ; then a piece of stout cord about
2ft. long with a baited hook at each end would be
whirled amongst them. Both baits would be caught
and then would commence a desperate struggle be-
tween the two hooked birds, usually ending in the
destruction of both.
“E.G.11.”: In the early ’eighties I was
overseer on Bindango, near Roma (C.Q.). There
were then hundreds of eagles on the run, and although
I was constantly riding the paddocks during lambing
I never saw a baa-baby attacked. I couldn’t say as
much where the crow is concerned. Strangely enough
the eagles were death on wallabies and kangaroo-rats.
The former they waited for as they left the scrub
about dusk. I have seen four of the birds attack a
full-grown kangaroo, flying in a circle like a.revolv-
ing wheel, and every 20 seconds or so smiting the oil
man on his top-piece till he was counted out.
* * » *
“Aneb” : Here’s what to do for strangles
in horses —and I know what I’m talking about,
having had dozens of suffering
prads under surveillance at the
same time aboard ship or
awaiting shipment. In most
cases there is no cure to equal
nature’s. So don’t meddle. If
the attack is mild, as it gen-
erally is, it does nothing but
good to young horses. After
it they thrive and fatten like
profiteers. Older horses are
not very subject to strangles.
One in 20 animals on land
heeds assistance. In that case
bring the swelling between the
jaws to a head with a blister,
and when ripe (not before)
lance. Then with your little
finger gently break down the
various cells and allow pus to
escape ; wash with phenyle, or
potass, perman., and keep the
opening from healing too
quickly from the outside.
Don’t use boracic acid, etc.,
but rather a little antiseptic
cotton-wool, which should be
removed daily. Twice out of
thousands of cases I have had
to place a tube in the throat
to prevent suffocation. Only
one beast that I treated died,
and that was owing to the
opening healing too quickly
from outside and some pus
travelling to the brain. The
main thing, if you have to
assist nature, is to bring the
gathering to one centre. I
have known it to break out all
over the head —that is bastard
or complicated strangles. If
the patient is a broken animal
put him in a loose box
should the weather be cold,
windy or wet, order to have
a i e\ en temperature. Feed and water him off the
ground with soft, mashy, damp feed or grass (he
won't eat much) and put Epsom salts in the water.
“Steve Hart”: Here’s an Outback remedy
for sciatica which has cured hundreds of buslimen.
Get the skin off a just-killed sheep and wrap it
round the thigh and hip. One skin will relieve the
pain. Another to follow the first one may be left on
all night. Turn the fleshy side of the skin inner-
most.
* * * *
“Nick Bottom”: Judging by the different
opinions expressed as to the most suitable timber for
maul-heads and handles it would seem that different
timbers are preferred in different localities, but
during my period of purgation in the bush I never
met a bushman who did not prefer a piece of good,
well-seasoned ironbqrk, cut from the curly limb of
an old tree. As regards handles, hardly any two
opinions coincided. I have known bushmen who pre-
ferred black myrtle, quince (garden variety),
spotted-gum (when the bushmen had time to whittle
a handle from a well-seasoned log), and a host of
other timbers, the names of which would fill a
Bulletin. But, to my mind, there is nothing to
equal the “wild lime” of the Northern Rivers
(N.S.W.) scrubs, for either maul or brush-hook
handles. As a second choice for a maul-handle I
vote for midginbil, a palm-like wand full of spring.
“Pick”: Though often assured by South
Coast (N.S.W.) hunters that the nimble chap I
scared from under a priekly-bush on Little Drom-
edary Mountain was a bilby, “Merops’s” description
of that rare animal (B. 9/10/’l9) has decided me
that someone is wrong. My discovery was much
smaller than a kangaroo-rat. He was bluish-grey, the
underneath while, and ho had abnormally large, rounded
ears. He travelled like a padymelon and his speed
was amazing. He left a nest of leaves and grass
under the bush from which I startled him, but lie
never was at home when I called again. If he
wasn’t a bilby some Abo. might inform us what he
was, and why there isn’t more of him.
“Silas Snell” : Bolge entered the store of
Davis, the general dealer of Ileatherdale, leaving his
long, archaic, two-horse spring-waggon at the door.
“Whatcher givin’ fer young duck?” said he. Davis,
sprawling half over the counter, was busy at his
ledg'er, and did not answer. Bolge went close up
and rapped sharply on the board. “Say, whatcher
givin’ fer young duck?” Davis looked up. “On
foot,” added Bolge. “Three bob,” said Davis with
an air of finality. “What! Three bob a-piece?”
Davis ’regarded the caller with cold disgust. “Three
bob a pair!” Bolge went suddenly into a state of
brain storm. “What! Three bob a pair fer fat duck
—last season’s.” “Three bob,” said Davis, and
returned to his ledger. “Three bob! H —1!” said
Bolge. “Three bob a pair for fat young duck!
Gorstruth! Of all the robbers! They’re givin’ 10
and 12 bob a pair for ’em in Melbin.” “Ta> ’em
to Melbourne, and bedamn to you.” “Three bob!
S’elp me, you wouldn't get ’em for that if your
tongue was hangin’ out a mile.” “I don't want
your ducks. Take ’em away.” “Oh, I’ll take ’em
away all right. I’ve carted ’em 19 mile, but I'll
cart ’em back agin afore I’ll sell ’em to any old
Yid thief fer three bob the brace. Three bob!”
“Get out of my shop!” cried Davis. Bolge laughed.
“P’r’aps you’ll put me out ? ’ said he. “Three bob !
So ’elp me —’ow a man like this is let to live!”
They fought a scuffling, unscientific battle, tearing
each other s clothes, fumbling and cursing, over-
turning a keg of pickltd herrings and scrambling
in the brine. Bolge got a bloody nose, Davis lost
a tooth, and the pair arose, glaring but unwilling.
“Three bob fer ducks!” said Bolge. “Three
bob !” He went out. In two minutes he
returned. lie was wiping the blood off his face.
“Saj', Mr. Davis,” he said, “you know them ducks
I was talkin’ to you about. Well, dash me if I
ain’t come away without ’em! I clean forgot to put
the crate on the waggon.”
“The Coper” : Re “Barcoo's” native meer-
schaum (B. 2/10/’l9). The Toolebuc chalk is not
suitable for pipe-making. It is so porous that in a
week the pipe becomes so strong that even the black-
gins can't stick it. As regards color, the sample
“Barcoo” saw must have been from the surface, as
a foot down it is as white as the best chalk. Writer
has a stud-box which was carved from some of it by
old Toolebuc Toby 12 or 13 years ago, and it is
still pure white. A sample sent to the Queensland
Mines Department years back was reported as being
of no commercial use—too hard for chalk and., as it
would not stand great heat, unsuitable for fireclay.
There are several hills of it about Toolebuc and
Lucknow stations, but the best lot is in the hill at
the foot of which the Toolebuc homestead stands.
“Cape Pork” : The reason the blacks never
venture near Lakes Barrine and Eacham, situate
in the Atherton (Q.) district, was explained to
me some years ago by old King Jumbo, who, no
doubt, had the yarn handed him by his predeces-
sors :
Long time ago one fella king he been huntem
longa kangaroo. Son longa him too. By-an’-bye
he been see-em kangaroo. This fella kangaroo no
all same other kangaroo. He been one time king.
’Spose he killem, big fire come up longa ground,
burnem altogether nenego [die]. That fella king
no killem. Son belonga him throwem spear
longa woomera. Killem. By-an’-bye big fire come
up longa ground, burnem up too much. Big fella
water come up too. No more boy go longa that
place.
The lakes are volcanic craters in the last sta©e.
Staff-survej or Bedford believed the. two, which
are situate two miles apart, are connected by a
subterranean passage. There is, however, no truth
in the yarn spun to the present State Governor
that a large alligator dwells in Barrine and is
frequently seen.
BROTHERS IN MISFORTUNE.
VISITOR: “Well, you’re the first bally black-
fellow I ever saw with a bald head.”
JACKY : “ Gripes , boss, you, bin yet Bareoo
rot, too!”
“Bright”: My experience is that a good
station-bred stock-horse will always tire a brumby
provided he is well ridden and has not too much
weight aboard. The correct way to run brumbies
is to give them a start and keep well behind them.
Do not try to catch up with them immediately.
When they have gone three or four miles they
will come back. Start them off again, and they will
not go far before they turn back. They may
still have another short spurt left in them, but
on coming up to them again it will be found
that the horse which you are riding and whose
strength you have been husbanding will be able
to overtake the best of the mob. A good plan
is to have a few tailers or quiet station horses
handy so that you can turn the brumbies into
them and drive the lot to the yards. Brumbies,
when they see that they are beaten, scatter if
you have not the tailers or sufficient riders to keep
them in a mob.
SIGNS OF RAIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
The tanks are dry—for many a week
We’ve carted water from the creek.
Light clouds appear and fade again.
Ah, how we watch for signs of rain!
Dad reckons that it’s coming soon,
From the big halo round the moon ;
Mum says the salt is getting damp.
And, see, the gnats fly at the lamp!
Drown ants swarm out and shed their wings.
A black moth to the ceiling clings;
While from the reed-bed crisp and dry
I hear a curlew’s mournful cry.
The tree-frog chirps in heart-felt'*glee
Beneath the faded pepper-tree.
Although the earth is dry as dust
It’s going to rain—sometime. It must!
N.S.W.
AENEAS.


m
SB B
aS
sss
■m
■i
m
m
SB®
SseSa
m
y
t
i&U!
A
%
<3
&
u
\
A
\\
the make right by itself
for hard Wearif Theyhave by experience
proVedthat the present day
consistentl||||^falbig/ mileage and are the
mosteconomical to use.
THeH&AT DEMAND
for “DuhtopSfllproves this, for our Mills—the
largest sfinltfteS Southern Hemisphere are
working day and night endeavouring to cope
vvith the continuous call for more “Dunlops”
parts of Australasia.
Suchfappreciation from thousands
Sof Motorist# is proof positive as to
Avhich tyre gives the best results.
IfHou do not use “Dunlops” try
One of jour latest covers —
There is no need
v, to use Imported Tyres
Dunlops—in “Grooved” or “Railroad”
types—will give you exceptional
service at a price that no imported
tyre can approach. Such being the
case, why send your money out of
the country to the detriment of
Australian Industry? Always use
“ Dunlops It pays! Obtainable all Agents.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. of Aust. Ltd.
(Founders of the Pneumatic Tyre Industry)
ALL STATES And N.Z.


Dependable power for all farm
machinery—and on Kerosene fuel!
FAIRBANKS MORSE TYPE “Z”
KEROSENE ENGINES.
JHE Type Z is the world’s latest and greatest farm engine. It is popu-
larly known as a wonder at the price,” because it not only embodies
features usually found in an engine
costing twice the money, but it gives
continuous non-stop service under all
conditions on kerosene fuel. The money
you can save by using kerosene fuel
should be enough to make you investigate
the Type Z right away.
See the Type Z ’ Engine. Note the
powerful business-like look about it.
laxamine the many features—every one a
masterpiece of design—the result of
years of successful, scientific engine-
building. Fix in your mind what each
advantage means to you as an actual
user of this engine—how every improve-
ment helps to do your farm work at a
greater saving of time and money.
fsd
i
mm.
Mr. 13. W. I’arloWj
Mullingudgery, after
long experience with
all kinds of engines,
considers the Type “Z”
superior to all other
makes.
fsd
fsd
fsd
5 big' features.
1. Throttling Governor.
2. built-in Oscillating Magneto
3. Pump Fuel Feed.
4. Speed Regulator.
5. Removable Rushings in
Bearings.
The Type “Z ,? is a 4-cycle
engine equipped with every-
thing you want.
Mr. Fergus Feonartl,
Combaning .Siding, shore
J 5,000 sheep at fuel cost of
l-sth penny per Sheep.
IGNITION guarantees a quick start in all weathers, and IGNITION PLUG
carbon ti ouble. Set your speed by THE SPEED REGULATOR, and the THROT-
J LIN G G()\ ERN OR maintains a regular, uni form pace all the time. PUMP FUEL FFEn
keeps a regular supply always on the spot, and the WATER-COOLING SYSTEM is fine
Other features comprise: Two Balanced Flv Wheels Guard rw n i.- ~ '
Bushes, Removable Cylinder Head, etc Compare fhe 'i- ««
and you will admit that “it’s a wonder at the price.” J engine
Sizes iy 2 ,3, 6, 10, 15 8.H.P., Stationary or Portable.
\\ rite to jour nearest of the following for catalogue and prices.
DANGAR, GEDYE & CO., LTD., 9-13 Young Street, Circular Quay, SYDNEY
J. BARTRAM & SON PTY., LTD., 583-586 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD., 99 Eagle Street, BRISBANE.
JAS. WARDLE, LTD., Victoria Square West, ADELAIDE.
MALLOCH BROS., 52-54 William Street, PERTH.
A. G. WEBSTER & SONS, LTD., HOBART.
E 268
Horseman and the Indians was perhaps the strangest
of all his new war friendships.
Nobody who knows thorn will bo surprised
to hear that, having licked the Turk in a hot
light, the first thing the Diggers did to their
prisoners was to shake hands with them. Nor
to learn that, when Ryrie’s Horse took Ziza,
“the Turkish commander rode out to meet
the Australian- brigadier. T will surrender,’
he said, ‘if you will protect us against the
Arabs. ‘Certainly.’ said the brigadier, ‘the
Arabs are our allies. If you surrender you
have nothing to fear.’ But the Turkish leader
would not be convinced. . .and the Australian
and Turks spent the night together round
the same camp-fires. Next morning the
1 urks laid down their arms and marched
as prisoners to Amman.”
And the Australian horse was nearly the
equal in grit of the Australian man. ' In
that little scamper to Ziza, for instance.
Ryrie covered 20 miles in under three hours;
and just before they had done 400 miles, on
short rations and heavily loaded, in 12 days.
And for other work there was that memor-
able charge towards Beersheba. Between
the army and the town lay a definite system
of strongly-held Turkish trenches. Water
was scarce, and time, therefore, precious, so
the trenches could not be attacked in (lie Co-
nventional dismounted way. But what was
to stop them being taken at the gallop?
Moving off at a trot, and soon quickening tHe
pace to a gallop, the regiments swept in a bee-
line towards Beersheba. They were soon under
heavy shell and machine-gun fire Charging wildly
down on the Turks, despite heavy rifle-fire, leading
troops of Light Horsemen jumped the advanced
trenches at a gallop, going clean over the Turkish
bayonets. Once within the enemy trench system
p.-ut of the force dismounted, and, jumping down
with their bayonets among the stalled enemy, soon
cleared the position. Meanwhile, the mad' gallop
ot other squadrons was continued through enemy
resistance into the very heart of the town.
Iu all the five years of war there surely was
nothing more typically Australian than this
mounted charge of enemy trenches with fixed
bayonets. Kvery convention of warfare was
broken. And for that very reason not only was
Beersheba gained, but the nerve of the Turk
was broken. There was no telling what
these extraordinary fellows would do next
A lifetime of study of text-books was no
good m a campaign against them.
But it is not all Australian. There is
generous appreciation of other forces. Mon
who could do what was done in Palestine
couldn’t be ungeherous.
Angus and Robertson publish the book;
1 enfold s printed it; and, characteristically
again, the simple dedication is “to fallen
comrades.”
Boote
11. E. Boote, of the Sydney Worker, is
tend of epigram and parable—more fond of
them than of the hard stinging logic that
makes for victorious argument. In The Land of
Whereisit (The Judd Publishing Co.. Syd-
ney) he tells a cycle of tales in his familiar
manner with a view to putting the world
i ght. Assuming the role of fool he writes
as one setting forth a nursery tale; and as
ail the ground is old and all the ideas have
been worked before until they 'have become
very print-worn, the result is a rather
dull little volume. God. the humorous, who
made \\ kereisit as a joke laughs rather
tediously from fable to fable; and there is
hardly a flash of insight or a touch of humor
to relieve the narrative. It is just possible
that, if there had been no picturesque writ-
ing in the past around the subject of social-
ism these little tales might have awakened
some interest; but the day is long past
when the mere statement of social evils
with a vague reference to revolution as the
cure can satisfy any reader. The crucified
liebel in the tales dies because he pointed
out to the people that they were being
cheated; it is notable that the crucified
( lirist who gives point to the Hebei's death
d d very little denunciation in comparison
with the extent of llis constructive ethical
policy. Boote offers nothing in the way of
reconstruction except vague generalities;
and as these have been offered ten thousand
times before, the reader is no further for-
ward.
The Call for a Melting Pot
-1 Constitution for a Continent, by O. D.
Zieman. is a painstaking book, with some
deep thinking in it. The writer is solid on"
the fact that the Commonwealth was miser-
ably weakened at the beginning by the
State Frights party which reduced its
powers to a minimum, the last straw being
the insane proviso—inserted along with the
Federal capital folly, at the instance of
George Reid—denying to the Federal autho-
rity the power to subdivide unwieldy pro-
vinces. As the Imperial Government was
also deprived of the power, the result is
that the offender can't be beheaded, except
by himself.
Mr. Zieman holds, among other things,
that the desert country, which constitutes
more than half non-tropiva 1 Australia.,
should be made a Federal territory with-
out any pretence of statehood, and some-
thing of the kind is inevitable unless
some States are to be handicapped almost,
perhaps quite, beyond endurance. Aus-
tralia was mapped out into States long
before it was explored, and it was only
when people began to go inland from Syd-
ney and Perth and Adelaide that they
learned what they had struck in the lottcrv.
South Australia found that it had 14.87r>
souare miles of country with 20in. or more
of rain per annum to carry the load of
administering 317,000 square miles of ter-
ritory with less. Westralia came next for
bad luck, though it wasn’t nearly so bad as
this. S. Australia can’t fairly be asked to
support so much desolation.
The writer believes, as The Bulletin
has done ever since it was a Bulletin, in
Ministers beimr elected by Parliament for a
fixed term; and he advocates the Referen-
dum. which is a good instrument when the
people _ have some sort of right, by the
Initiative or otherwise, to decide what they
will referend about. When dishonest pol-
iticians adjust the arrangements, as they did
in N. S. Wales over the first Federal Con-
stitution affair, so that one vote may over-
ride 79,999, it is a different business. Also
he supports the Recall, which is a good
thing it not carried to excess. In the last
days of New Austra 1 ia-i n- Pa raguay the bell
rang every half-hour for a vote on the Re-
call of elected Foreman Smith who, mad-
dened by 10 minutes’ brief authority, had
requested Free Citizen Jones to hoe a turnip
instead of delivering speeches, and somehow
tilings went wrong.— (Tyrrell’s, Limited,
Sydney.)
A Satchel of Books
The Sew Decameron (B. H. Blackwell, Oxford).
This first volume, ’containing The Prologue and The
First Day, does not arouse any desire for the second.
One of the longest yarns in the set is the Psychic
Researcher’s Tale—“ The Beast with Five Fingers.”
As a psychic story it is little better than the average
magazine ghost-story, the beast in question being
the severed hand of a dead man bequeathed to his
nephew. “The Stone House Affair” is an unconvinc-
ing detective story, and “The Tumbril Touch” only
makes one regret that Frank Harris did not write it.
Whoever chose “The New Decameron” as a title for
this collection should be packed in a crate and sent
to the special Hades reserved for literary profiteers.
Ancient Mariners, by Morley Roberts (Mills and
Boon), London. A set of seven good sea yarns,
mostly told in the fo’c’s’le. Naturally, the humor-
ous predominate. But the other kind of story of
“the ancient ship, built of strange, scented woods
and much salted and great of endurance, but lying
there hard and fast in the middle of a wood with a
forest climbing aboard her every day and growing
eager and bright out of her very bones,” is well
done, and there is some fine descriptive work in
“The Lofty-minded Mariner,” a volcanic eruption
fantasy.
Drowned Gold, by Roy Norton (Skeffington, Lon-
don), is « second-rate sea-story. An exiled French-
man ships three million dollars from Maracaibo to
France on a tramp steamer. The tramp is torpedoed
by a German submarine. The hero charters a kind
of super-submarine to salvage the sunken treasure.
After many misadventures the ship and dollars are
recovered- and the hero finds a wife. The author
writes much more convincingly of the ranch than
he does of the sea.
The Quest of the Sacred Slipper, by Sax Rohmer
(Pearson, London), is a horrible melodrama and its
plot has been worked to death. A sacred relic—one
of Mahommed’s slippers—was stolen from Mecca. It
was intended for the British Museum. Needless to
say, the successive handlers of the relic either suffer
mutilation or death. This is the seventh Oriental
mysterv-varn Rohmer has perpetrated. There should
be no eighth.
The Inky Way
"Copy Boy” : An Inky Way paragraph (B.
9/IU/T9) anent the rapidity with which 11.
(J. Wells and Arnold Bennett turn out novels
moves me to mention Jack McLaren, whom
Bulletin readers known as “McNorth.”
Early this year. McLaren, encouraged by
success as a short-story writer, sold his
Bananaland copra plantation, returned to
his native Melbourne and set to work book-
making. In six months he turned out six
novels; live have been placed locally and the
sixth is on the way to London. lie is now
at work on two more, presumably typing one
with each hand. McLaren’s experiences in
the tropics have furnished him with an un-
limited supply of plots and characters, and he
works systematically turning the raw
material into marketable products. Every
day he bangs his typewriter for six hour's
and produces a chapter, so that in a month
or less he has finished a book. If he keeps
on at the present rate he will have passed
Wells’s tally in less than six years.
Australia’s first official war correspon-
dent. Charlie Beau, is to be paid £l2OO a
year while he is writing the history of the
Commonwealth’s share in the great up
heaval. The job will take five or six years
at least.
“Zoology” : Ever heard the cold scientific
facts which underlie the frequent references
in English pastoral poetry of the 18th and
10th centuries to the beauty of dairymaids?
I'ntil the general introduction of vaccination,
practically every person in Europe had small-
pox at some time or other, and the only
unpocked people were dairymaids. It was
this that led to .Tenner’s famous discovery
of vaccination against small-pox. lie dis-
covered that all the pastoral beauties owed
their freedom from pock-marks to having
contracted cow-pox while milking, and being
thereby rendered immune to the other thing.
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: Sydney Town
and Country .Journal, which died lately
of starvation, would have had a jubilee in
January next year had it lived. The founder
was Samuel Bennett, who had been over-
seer for the Fairfaxes. With William Han-
son. who had been Government Printer, he
took over Parkes’s old Empire, which had
gone to sleep in August, 1858, and was re-
vived in May, 1859. Bennett established the
Evening News in July, 1867, and shut down
on the Empire in February, 1874. There-
after he ran the T. and C. and the Evening
News with the help of his three sons, Alfred.
Frank and Christopher. The T. and C. had
for its country canvasser and correspondent
John Henniker Heaton, who in 1873 manned
Bose, the only daughter of Sam Bennett.
When the latter died the estate was divided
into five parts, one each to the widow and
children. When the widow died Bose got her
mother’s share, having thus two-fifths of the
whole. On the strength of his marriage Hen-
niker Heaton went to London and got a seat
in the Commons as Conservative M.P. for
Canterbury. His hobby of postal reform
eventually brought him a baronetcy. He
died at Geneva at the beginning of the war.
His will, proved at under £3OO, showed whose
purse was heaviest in that household.
Adelaide Public Library has acquired from
the writer’s son the diary of B. 11. Edmunds,
who was in charge of an expedition sent by
S. A. Government just 55 years ago to the
Far North. The Territory had lately been
Placed under the control of S. Aus., and the
first Government Resident, Finniss, was in
need of help; even more so was McKinlay,
who was exploring in the region. It is a
dramatic and little-known bit of Australian
history.
n* B i«sins?m : on typists’ errors
(l-s. 16/10/19) induces me to send along
the gem of mv collection. Dictating a letter
about a medicinal preparation, I said that
certain aromatics, “in addition to assisting
the stomachic action of the eascara, also
mask its unpleasant taste.” When I received
the letter it read, “In addition to assisting
the dramatic action,” etc. That girl knew
something!


STORAGE
BATTERY
, Willard Threaded Rubber Insulation
3
X
■ I
-• ■a :
. fr .
• V
...
r.r ’
«
Wim
■
{' ' ft
Ift
... 4.'S
lift
v. -a
#* ? H 112546E «*!
If 8 B ATTaI| Tg ;
# 1
ipi
■ r*
# . fi
I *ftj
I ;*i
Ism
rff®#
ft '- ' *
spill
i
MMI
> r* .i
■
i i
KM
. ■
m
i
fcj&r
; V
■GI
ISIS
IKlfiP
lag 11
|||ft||||l|||l w Is^SSs
'•!
bH-i . ■'
EEs
**IP
HEMp?
................ .'■' e
i HI
—8
m
m
;ft '<-■
X-
HHr.ft
: I
.;/,.. ft- :
ifl
,i
■
■
’
. ;•: .
, ft
1
■ I
I
1
H
SMI
■
if:-
!1
mmm
m
u
I*l
%
EM
*
■
ip >.•
EH
>
■
H
Hi
k£
IS
■EI
EH
H
■
ft ,X
;
IB!
ft; .; ■
■■:■... ■■ .;
■
. ■
•■■ft
-
ft
■ *
ftftft
111
1
mi
R
i n s 118
.. :;. H
'ft:'"
; ft : .
X
ffii ■ : :
■ft.
ft' ft'X
ft
: ft* 5
.
m E
.
I .’■;.'
• #
.' 'ftf
_ m mmm wMssamssm
mm
H 1 §1 1 I 11111 I I gif 1| j
...¥l ** Jr > >.*Y ... ft- . %
©
%
ar>
' ca
The boss often says to me, “You can t control the way a man
feels when he drives into this place—he may be paying a friendly call
to get information, he may be towed in because of battery trouble, he
may be happy, or angry, or half-way between.
“But one thing you can always do; send him away satisfied.”
And that’s my job. When the job’s done it will be done right.
If you want advice, if you want service, if you want repairs, if you need
a new battery, come to battery service headquarters.
No one can have your interest more at heart than the company
who first organised trained battery service, whose batteries are
installed by the great majority of American car builders, and who
developed the Bone Dry Willard with Threaded Rubber Insulation.
Willard Service.


He
Catches
the Eye,
and he will catch
buyers’ eyes at Home-
bush.
Winchcombe,
Carson
will see to that. They
are expert salesmen,
alert and energetic.
CONSIGN STOCK:
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Remington Siding. LTD.
WP
m
AMERICA'S
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
All y Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
If You Want a New
f
Acetylene
Gas
Generator
for Lighting or
Oxy-Welding
go to BRANDT’S,
m who supply them
from 10 to 200
: Light.
We send Mechanics to overhaul old Installa-
tions or instill new ones.
Send for Latest Booklet on Acetylene
Lighting.
Best Swedish Carbide now in
Stock —all Granulations.
WHITE FOR QUOTATIONS.
BRANDT BROS. LTD.,
Acetylene and Air-Gas Engineers,
236 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And 338 Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
30
&
«
$
«•
This Is the
Registered
Trade Mark
Of the best
place to get
your
Fishing Tackle,
Guns, Rifles,
Cartridges,
Tennis Goods, etc.
818 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
H. G. HARMER, L.R.1.8.A., C.E,
, ESTABLISHED 1907,
having taken into partnership
A. C. LAVINGTON,
will henceforth practise as
HARMER & LAVINGTON,
.ARCHITECTS
and
CONSCXiTING Cl VIE ENGINEERS.
SPECIALISTS IN RE-INFORCED CONCRETE,"
TIMBER AND STEEL STRUCTURES.
SILOS, WOOLSIIEDS, TANKS, FACTORIES
AND HOMESTEADS.
Country work a Specialty.
’Phone: City 50. Box 408 G.P.O.
52 WAR LOAN CHAMBERS,
114 a PITT STREET, SUBNET.
mm
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
sdf
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
sdf
BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust— Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES -Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS:
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited,
“Collins House,” 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sydney Agent: Adelaide Agent:
R. N. KIRK, 25 O’Connell Street. C. S. STOKES, 62 Brookman Buildings.
!■■■■■■■■
m
ritisK
The All
\
T 3
LIGHT CAR
Send your enquiry for early delivery to Agent—
I. PHIZACKERLEY, SYDNEY,
STANDARD MOTOR CO. LTD.,
COVENTRY, ENGLAND.
!■■■■
The Car
for the
Owner-Driver
Happiness
St V.
S',
M
The way to radiate happiness
is to be happy —the way to be
happy is to cultivate good health
An easy way to cultivate good health and happiness is to acquire
certain simple habits of life. The Kruschen Habit is a simple
habit—it is quite simple to drink a tumbler of hot water with a
half-teaspoonful of Kruschen Salts in it every morning on rising
for a few weeks at a time. Yet this simple habit makes for
health and happiness as nothing else does—for it cleanses the
system, purifies the blood, and tones up mind and body to the
acme of efficiency. “ The difference between an optimist and a
pessimist ”, it has been well said, “is a dose of Kruschen
Salts ! ” Get the Kruschen Habit—persevere with it—and
prove this saying for yourself. It is the safe, sure road to health
and to the happiness that health confers.
ALL BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS
Of all good chemists, grocers and stores throughout Australia. Wholesale Distributing Agent•>.
MESSRS. H. & W. GREAR, 287-289 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
Sole Proprietors, E. Griffiths Hughes (Krnschen) Ltd., 68 Deansgate Arcade. Manchester. England
AUSTRALIAN
PRICF
2/3
per oottie
Business, Robbery, etc.
The Vic. mining village of Maldon, having
grown tired of paying excessive prices for
its socks, has decided to put £lO,OOO cf its
own money into a knitting-mill. In the
same neighborhood there are flour-mills and
butter-factories, for which the district raises
the raw material, and there seems no reason
why similar business principles should fail
when applied to the local sheep’s overcoat.
Australia can do with lots of this sort of
patriotism.
* * * *
“Ivaylee”: Continental shippers had to
find something better than mere words for
their “This Side Up With Care” caution,
because the wharfie in foreign parts is not
usually well up in any language but his
own. Some genius hit on the symbol of a
wineglass, and now it is coming into univer-
sal use. A self-respecting wharfie would as
soon wilfully upset his own beer as larow
the sacred sign into a spilling position.
* * * *
“Pollio”: The crispest trading sign I ever
came across was in Lahore, India, where a
Babu advertised himself in his front window
as “Barrister,, Photographer and Dentist.”
People looked at his photographs and de-
cided to dodge his law and his dentistry.
But the true Admirable Crichton of trades-
men was met with in Natal. Ilis sign said:
J. W. BIGIIAM FROM WALES
DRESSMAKER BOOTS SHOES
HARNESS UMBRELER- BATHS MENDEN CHAFF-
CUTTERS SISERS SHARPENED
SEWING- MI CHENS MENDEN TERMS CASH
Ilis price-list included the making of dresses,
shirts, nightgowns and “bueles,” the trimming
of hats, the mending of umbrellas, harness,
saddles and “furnetcher,” and tinsmithing.
“Ladys drawse made’” for two shillings each
was an attractive side-line.
* * * *
“Dido” and the high cost of living: —
Vegetables arc so dear in Melbourne jusi now
that the man with a decent kitchen garden can t
sleep o’ nights for thinking of his helpless carrots
and his shrinking young lettuces out in the dark-
ness exposed to the machinations of wicked men. My
neighbor Sillily, who has a yard full of lovely greens,
had, I felt, been regarding me with the baleful eye
of suspicion for some time ; and as I had never had
the courage to pinch so much as a sprig ol mint
this filled me with righteous indignation. However,
he spoke to me over the front fence quite amicably
this morning. “A funny thing happened me yester-
day,” he said. “In the morning Swallow, the chap
at the back, called in, and after a little fluttering
said: ‘The fact is, old man, I called in to explain
about last night’s—or should I say this morn-
ing’s’ ? —unfortunate er-er-mishap. To tell the
absolute truth, I had'come over after our canary,
which had escaped ; but when you caught me I was
so flummoxed, thinking you would naturally con-
clude I was stealing your cauliflowers, that I just
hit you and bolted. I er-really hope I didn't hurt
you.’ I assured him I was not hurt in the least,
which, as I had not stirred out of my 'bed all
night, and had certainly not caught anyone in my
garden, was on the whole not surprising. I let him
go without any comment, and that evening, when I
was coming from the tram, Curtis, the man «n my
other side here, overtook me. ‘I want a word with
you, old chap,’ he said. ‘When you caught me in
your back garden in the dark this morning, and I
made so ignominious a run for it, 1 was not raking
your vegetables, as you would naturally suppose, but
was after those damned cats. The row they make
drives my poor wife almost crazy.’ ” Smily grinned.
“Curtis had a black eye,” he said.
* * *
“Simon”: Is it necessary for orchardists
to spend so much time fertilising, scarify-
ing and digging around trees? At Duiwich
Hill (Sydney) a man who had three or
four well-cared for peach trees in his yard
decided to asphalt the whole area, and did
the job hard up around the trunks. After
three years those trees are bearing as well
as, or better than, ever.
“Mulga” : Of the soldier settlements v?hich
are being established in Queensland, Eeer-
buiTum, Pikedale and Oswald’s Track, in
the Innisfail district, should be successful;
but nothing will induce me to believe that
either Mt. Hutton or Cecil Plains will be
successful if the present intention of cutting
them up into holdings of from 320 to
1280 acres is Adopted. Oecil Plains is close
to. the disastrous Jimbour settlement, and
with the experience of that proposition to
guide them many practical men cannot
understand why the Government purchased
the estate, consisting of a similar class of
country, for closer-settlement purposes. Cecil
Plains, like Jimbour, was probably payable
as a large holding, for the reason
that the paddocks could be spelled by shift-
ing stock. With smaller holdings this would
be an impossibility, and I fear Cecil Plains
will -become like Jimbour is at present, a
wilderness. When a good season -does
occur, both places are, no doubt, Gardens
of Eden. Mt. Hutton comprises ironbark,
box and sandalwood country, with patches
of brigalow and belah scrub. It is badly
watered, and is no better than second-class
cattle-grazing country. The rainfall is mi-
certain, and the land is unsuitable for either
dairying or sheep.
THE CUSTOM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
VICTORIA.
John Profiteer awoke one night,
And found at work by candlelight
A dark intruder. Cold with dread,
“A burglar!” John in anguish said.
The burglar took a ruby ring,
And diamonds, and sai 1: “Old thing,
You’re quite mistaken; I restore
The economic balance. More,
“I do observe the law of trade
Which of your wisdom you have made.
I find my bread and butter dear,
My cheese, my beef-steak and my beer
“For clothing I’m compelled to pay
At more than double rates to-day.
My rent is high, and this my hat
Was thirty bob, and poor at that.
“My wife for everything she buys
Is asked a price that tonifies.
I could not bear the burden, John —
And this is how 1 pass it on!”
SILAS SNELL.


THE BETTER MUSICIAN
YOU ARE THE MORE
YOU WILL APPRECIATE
THE BEALE
i -
IV
M
m
Syb
w
ft
Ms,?
WJ&
&
£&>
tkb
e* V
\<%n
m
M
wu
i
%
smttk« •Jo.liti.s
eole
Perfectly Played Accompaniments
Have you not often felt the thrill of it—a perfect song, perfectly
accompanied ? Every note of the rich, young voice sweetly carried
on a fabric of faultless melody. Never too fast, never too loud—just
an exquisite balance that gives a new charm to simple, old
favourites such as "Annie Laurie” and "Cornin’ Thro’ the Rye.”
The experience has come to us all; unfortunately more often from
the concert platform than in the drawing room of our own home.
In most cases the home singer is handicapped by inability to secure a pianist
sufficiently skilful to manage the accompaniments of the more difficult songs.
The pity of it! Especially so, as a BEALE PLAYER-PIANO has not only a
perfect technique but eight ccfritrolling devices that bring good playing to the
finger tipTs of every sympathetic musician, # whether trained or not. Its ability is
not limited to songs, either. It plays with equal facility and expression any
composition, from ragtime to grand opera. Yet in less than six seconds it may
be closed for hand playing or for the children to practice.
For those interested in the superiority of the Australian-made, our descriptive literature
would prove interesting. Sent anywhere post free. The section dealing with our
25-year guarantee makes special appeal to the man who signs the cheque
BEALE &c CO. LTD.
Showrooms : 333 George Street, Sydney.
Factory: 41-47 Trafalgar Street. Annandale.
BRANCHES AT
NEW SOUTH WALES : BATHURST, ORANGE, LISMORE, NEWCASTLE, GOULBURN, WAGGA.
VICTORIA: MAPLES, in ail MELBOURNE Suburbs. TASMANIA: WILLIAMS BROS., HOBART,
MAPLES, LAUNCESTON. aOUTH AUSTRALIA : JOHN EVANS LTD., ADELAIDE. Q’LAND :
90-92 Queen Street, BRISBANE. Kent Street, MARYBOROUGH. Flinders Street, TOWNSVILLE.
ROCKHAMPTON. Sydney Street, MACKAY. CAIRNS.


Hose of Luxite
is made in your favorite
material and shades.
The demand for Luxite
Hosiery has invited sub-
stitutes ; so please look
for the Trade Mark on
each pair.
One pair of Luxite will
outwear two pairs of
many kinds. Thousands
of wearers know that
this is true.
If your dealer is unable %
to supply you, write us.
Indents and Wholesale thru
WALTER CATHRO PTY. LTD.
DO York Street :: SYDNEY.
sdf
BULLDOG
VjrtE SEIF VULCANIZING/
v PATCN
SIZE PUNCTURE ,
BLOWOUT OR TORN PLACE
OBTAINABLE AT ALL GARAGES
PRODUCED ENTIRELY
IN AUSTRALIA.
Mothersill s
SEASICK
REMEDY
CI^RES
THE
CHARMS
OF A SEA TRIP
need no longer be marred by the
dread of mal-de-mer
MOTHERSILL’S Sea-Sick Remedy^
is guaranteed to prevent and cure Sea
and Train Sickness, or money refunded.
MOTHERSILL’S has received the unquali-
fied endorsement of the leading papers of
the world, and the finest testimonials
from the world s greatest men, women
and institutions.
No Bad After Effects.
All Chemist), in Large & Small Boxes.
Mothcrsill Remedy Co., Ltd.,
204 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
Guaranteed to cure
SEA OR TRAIN SICKNESS
OR MONEY RETURNED |
HOTEL
METROPOIE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 12/6 per clay, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 4/- and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all Particulars posted on application
to Tiie Manager.
mmrm
W~l
Y*
PLUM
/
‘mzjn/ I
ISM
a
Plume” is NOT a mixture
of various grades and gravities of gasolene.
Every gallon —every DROP is the same
throughout, and the Spirit reaches your
Carburetor in the same pure, homogeneous
form it leaves our Refinery.
“PLUME” is justly famed for its power—for
the speed it produces —for its on-the-dot
“oick-up.” ( t|
You cannot fill your tank with a more “live*
spirit.
“PLUME” gives you easy starting, quick ac-
celeration, power and mileage. All garages,
Vacuum Oil Company Pfcy. Ltd-
Throughout Australasia
sdf
>. v<.V SA,
{y zvr
PR*
THE
FINEST SPIRIT
IN AUSTRALIAN
HISTORY
DRYGIN
ALWAYS LOOK FOR
CAPTAIN COOK”
o
COOK /
Wr
Jlf * I
sdf
LOADING CHAFF BY GRAVITATION. (No power required.)
MANUFACTURERS OF LABOR-SAVING MACHINERY.
GRINDING, DRESSING, MIXING AND PACKING MACHINERY.
MACHINERY SPECIALISTS. FACTORY EXPERTS.
Schumacher Mill Furnishing WorKs Pty. Ltd*
PORT MELBOURNE, VICTORIA. [3
- —— —— i■■■ ■■■ ■ I I T i I ■II— ■IIIIMI——TTMI
“Beechworth”: The Syrian was not far
behind the Gyppo in catching- on to Austra-
lian words and terms. We were only in
Tripoli a month or so, yet I noticed this
outside a shop :
Com k on Australia ! This joint is dinkum!
Cattanach, chairman of the Vic. Water
Commission (a £lso<)-a-year job, with ex-
pectations) was formerly a town clerk in
a northern suburb of Melbourne. He blos-
somed as a water commissioner under
Elwood Mead.
“Spag” : There was a six-hour interruption
of the telegraph service at Townsville re-
cently and all the blame has been laid on one
innocent little fly. When things went wrong
and men were told off to investigate, nothing
seemed out of order; but at last the fly's
mangled carcase was discovered at Miriam
Yale, and Webster smiled once more. The
unbidden guest had entered the "jack'’ and
been crushed between the springs when a
test plug was inserted.
Sandalwood valued at £117.072 was ex-
ported from Westralia last year. This was
a record; the previous best was in 1882.
when £96,050 worth was sent away. The
wood is chiefly carried in .Japanese ships of
small tonnage, a - d the main profits miss the
pockets of the cut tors and find their way into
those of Shanghai Chinese, who monopolise
distribution in their own country. A little
distillation of sandalwood-oil is done in the
West, last year’s production approximating
37201 b.
A cable announces that King George “has
resumed stocking the great wine-vaults under
St. James's Palace, which extend for a
quarter of an acre”; also, that "the Royal
Family appreciate the light Australian wines
with which the cellarsarelargely sucolied.” It
must be embarrassing to the wowsers who
pushed their wares in public on the plea
that patriotism called us to "follow the
King,” but now groan in anguish when it is
suggested that repatted Diggers should go
in for wine-growing.
“St. Royan”: I often smile at my first
attempt to enlist. I was just on 30$‘at the
time, and not much to look at. Sneaking
into the recruiting office I found an impressive
person who might have been the State Com-
mandant but was really a sar’n-major.
“Whateryer doin’ here?” he barked. "Just
going to enlist.” I replied meekly. When he
recovered he gasped my arm and led me to
the door. “You get away home, sonny,” he
said. “We’re issuing breeches in here, not
napkins.” But I beat him six months later.
Towards erecting additions to Melbourne
Uni. Lawson’s Government has provided
£155,000 —loan money, of course. In a pre-
vious measure £20,000 was included; and it
is stipulated that the public must contribute
the other £25,000 to make up the £200,000
needed. Country members are not very
favorable to the scheme, but the Govern-
ment can carry it. The bill ought to be
paid out of revenue and the thing done with.
Instead, the interest will be paid out of
revenue, and the principal will still remain
to be struggled with.
Two more Rhodes scholars were added to
the list when the Westralian committee
elected Herbert T. Stables (1917) and
Keith Burton (1918). Stables is 22, son
of O. P. Stables, one-time of W.A. Educa-
tion Department, and a nephew of ex-C.J.
Parker. lie twice applied for enlistment
and was turned down. Burton, 21. is a son
of Rev. A. Burton, of Middle Swan. He
enlisted in 1916 and fought in France until
wounded at Morlancourt last year. Both
went to the C. of E. Grammar School at
Guildford before passing to the Uni.
“Gleniins”: Book up Melbourne retail
dairymen on the list of proven profiteers.
The other day the dailies explained that
“owing to the dry spell” milk was selling at
6d. a quart. Yet at that very time, because
the producers were getting more Springtime
milk than the retailer could handle, milk was
being used by the far pier as manure, or was
being allowed to flow down to the drainage-
pits. Milk was. indeed, so plentiful that
some retail traders were paying ns little as
9d. a gallon for their supplies, and making
a compliment of taking it at that. With a
municipal milk supply it should be possible
to run a butter-factory as an adjunct to the
main business, buying the milk-swamped
producers’ goods in the form of cream, and
thus stopping a sinful waste.
The 80th anniversary of .the death of Col.
Light, Adelaide’s founder, has been celebrated
around his statue near the G.P.O. He is
buried not far away, in the middle of Light
Square ; but, by one of those odd turns which
uuarters of a city can take, that locality,
fashionable in the city's infancy, afterwards
became the resort of Ah Chow and his lady
friends. It is now again strongly on the
up grade, but when the time came for a statue
it was placed in King William-street, the
grave being marked by a theodolite as a
fitting memorial. Light died little more than
two years after-fixing the site of the city—
perhaps largely as a result of a bitter quarrel
with Governor Hindmarsh over that very
question. Adelaide placed wreaths on his
statue, and acclaimed him as “the first town-
planner.”
One of the Australian women who went
to the Women’s International Congress held
at Zurich, under the presidency of Miss Jane
Addams, America’s best-known woman, tells
of its most dramatic moment. It was when
Madam Melin, from the war-scarred region
of Northern France, took her place in the
gathering and was instantly approached by
the chief German delegate, Gustava Hey-
mann, who, in the, name of the women of
Germany, presented her with a bunch of
pink roses. As the French woman grasped
the hand of her official enemy the whole
body rose and pledged itself to organise
against war. The Frenchwoman’s speech
was tragically moving. There were three
Australians present—Vida Goldstein, Cecilia
John and Eleanor Moore. Among the Bri-
tish delegates was Miss Chrysal MacMillan,
who argued the women’s suffrage claim be-
fore the House of Lords, and the white-
haired Mrs. Despard, who has complicated
the Irish ouestion by becoming an adherent
of Sinn Fein while her brother, Lord
French, Lord-Lieutenant, is endeavoring to
crush it.


i
&
In* 1
“S36S
tflf^
5»
tf *'?'••>*>! I
£
x
X\X
Th
Nrttti.O*
v\Wv
Mining
erected or
AGENTS
Fyvie & Stewart, 362 Collins
St.,Melbourne, Alex Ingram
& Co., Wyatt St., Adelaide;
Evans, Deakin & Co., 121
Eagle Street, Brisbane
The World’s greatest metal
worker is OXY-ACETYLENE
IN the manufacture of metal products, in the
erection and demolition of metal structures,
for repairing broken or worn parts of machinery in all in-
dustries, for keeping agricultural implements and automobiles
on the move, and saving metal kitchen utensils, broken
garden tools, etc., from the scrap heap, the supremacy of
the OXY-ACETYLENE PROCESS is firmly established.
" COMOX ” Welding and Cutting Equipments are at work in
most of the metal industries throughout Australia-engineering
workshops and garages find them a necessary part of their equip-
ment to combat the expense of buying new parts. Millions of
cubic feet of Oxygen have been dispatched from our works this
year, to reduce the cost of cutting and joining cast and wrought
iron, mild steel, brass, copper, aluminium, and gunmetal. Steel
mills, foundries, shipyards, engineering shops, boilermakers, mines,
motor garages, manufacturers of sheet metal products, and factories
of all kinds find Oxy-Acetylene Welding and Cutting Outfits a
valuable adjunct to their business.
The New "COMOX” BLOWPIPES with INTERCHANGE-
ABLE HEADS should be of special interest to all shops handling
a variety of general repair work. Motorists, farmers, and house-
holders everywhere are fast realising that Oxy-Acetylene Welders
are great fellows for saving money. Don’t buy new metal parts
or tools! Ask us for booklet, and address of your nearest Oxy-
Acetylene Welder.
Oxygen G?
sd
FOY -ST BALMAIN
.SYDNEY • NSW
fsd
AGENTS ;
Harrison Bros Si Co. Ltd ,
20 Patterson St., Launceston
Geo. Wills & Co. Ltd., Mur
ray Street, Perth : Brown Si
Joske, Suva, Fiji


cuncu
HEALS
PIMPLE
On face. Caused disfigurement.
Scattered and some came to a head.
Skin red and face was one mass of
pimples. Suffered six or seven years
and used remedies which did no good.
Saw Cuticura advertisement and sent
for free sample which afforded relief.
Bought more Cuticura Soap and Oint-
ment and was completely healed.
Prom sigr statement of Miss
Margaret B Burnham Road,
Beaudesert, island, July 3, 1917.
Make Cuticura Soap and Ointment
your every-day toilet preparations.
Soap to cleanse and Ointment to heal.
“R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
Sold by dealers throughout the world.
PARIS
GARTERS
No mefal
can fouch you
The Kneeling Figure an l
Oval Trade Mark is al-
ways on the genuine Paris
Garter. This will protect
you against unsatis/ac-
. tory substitutes.
Obtainable all Mercers.
Stein & Co., Makers. Chicago, New Yoik.
Indents and Wholesale:
Walter Cathro Pty. Ltd., 50 York St., Sydney.
BRISBANE’S LEADING HOTEL
msssi
f-'.-
mum
The last word in comfort.
Convenient to Theatres,
G.P.0., Rail, and all tram
routes
THE GRESHAM
BRISBANE
T. M. AHERN, Prop.
MARTIN’S PILLS
are sold by all chemists and stores. Ladies
recommend them. Be sure you get the
genuine with the signature:
MARTEN, Chemist, Southampton, England
INFLUENZA
Used In the Melbourne Hospitals
Brooke’s “Lemos”
The Purest Lemon Squash.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wi Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard*
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Build e r s’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68J PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the worhl.
fsd
That’s What You Need
CASH’S <@> NAM ES'
To Mark all Linen.
They impart Individuality and
Safeguard against Loss. Any
Name is woven into a Fine Cam-
bric Tape in Fast Color—Easily
sewn on—lnsist on having
CASH’S—The BEST.
Prices: 12 d0 2. 4/6, 6 doz. 3/3, 3 doz. 2/3.
Sold.by all Best Drapers.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY
J. & J. Cash Pty., Ltd.,
85 Cubitt Street, Richmond, VIC.
Write for Style Book.
w
■ m <2
'- ..v;;5
m.
i
We Can Make Immediate Shipment
from the East Coast, and
from the West Coast,
either from our own warehouses
at Staten Island, New York, or
from our branch house in San
Francisco.
Write for our monthly maga-
zine,
and our Stoekbook SBB, giving
a list of quantities on hand.
Cable Address:
“Ardeencee,” New York.
Codes used: ABC sth Edition.
Western Union, Lieber’s, and
Bentley’s.
Rownson, Drew & Clydesdale Inc
William St, New York, U.S.fl
Pi
S 3
5833»
y
TRACS
MARX
The Guardian of the
Wealth of Nations
THE vaults of the treasuries of the
United States and many of the
strongest banks of the world are se-
cured by Yale bank locks.
Where giant institutions place their
confidence, you may freely place yours.
Yale products offer the greatest security,
highest quality and widest adaptability.
There is a Yale lock for every use, from
those on the massive, complicated Treas-
ury vault doors to the pilfer-proof locks
on the smallest boxes.
There are equally good Yale night
latches, Yale padlocks, Yale door clos-
ers, Yale builders’ hardware and Yale
chain blocks—all worthy of your
confidence, and all bear the trade-
mark; look for it on the product.
Your order can be executed through
leading dealers.
THE YALE & TOWNE
'v Mfg. Co.
Established 1866
\\ New York, /
\V U, S. A. yX
fds
f
CYALE)
TRIPLEX BLOCKS
Special features:—
1— Hoists twice as fast as a screw-geared block.
2 Continuous Hand Chain permitting rapid lowering.
3 Rated on long ton(234olb.)and tested to 50% overload(336olb.).
4 Can be fitted to any length of lift.
5 Spare parts available.
6 Hand and Electric Blocks available from stock.
FRANK R. PERROT, Sole Australian Agent
334 Kent Street, Sydney; SB3 Hay Street, Perth.
L. BANNISTER, 39 Queen Street, Melbourne.
EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., 121 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
For our sick and wounded
BOYS—When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Red Cross Book
Depot, Wynyard Street, Sydney.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
S. Aus. Premier Peake has one perform-
ance to his cred.t. at any rate. His Esti-
mates show that the Government expenses in
connection with the made-to-order peace cele-
brations amounted to £lO.
Peter Allen’s Anti-Shouting B : ll has been
finally dealt with in the South Aus.
Assembly. Peter suffered the usual handicap
of the professional humorist, members re-
fusing to take him seriously, and on a vote
being taken the measure found only one
supporter—Peter himself.
“L.”: The Bananaland Labor party is not
particular liow it gets funds. At Liberty
Fair, its big money-getter now in full blast
in Brisbane Botanical Gardens, you can
gamble in umteen different ways. The party
that has to first demoralise its supporters
before it can start to uplift them is travel-
ling along a wobbly track.
S. Aus. is losing it-s Trade Commissioner
in London: McCann is being sent to the
Argentine by the Smithfield Co., a big Lon-
don concern which gives him a five years’
contract at a figure that makes stay-at-home
S. Aus. civil servants gasp. He grew up
with the cold-meat trade in his native State.
“Flinders Lane”: A curious development
of the introduction of electricity to the Mel-
bourne suburban train service is the dis-
covery that posters on railway stations have
lost a lot of their advertising value. The
electric train stays only 20 seconds, and as
a result of the hustle people have scarcely
an opportunity of glancing at the hoardings,
where formerly they had time for a studious
survey.
The late Bigjohn Forrest’s old home in the
centre of Perth lias been sold, and shops
will be built there. Some years ago the
City Council wanted the site for a town hall,
as it had a frontage of 200 ft. and extended
back from Hay-street to Murray-street, but
Bigjohn would not shift. The property was
recently passed in at auction at £22,000.
The buyer, Mr. W. Padbury, gave much
more than that.
“Mellis” : Reading of the profits made in
Europe by American boot exporters, it comes
as a surprise to an ex-Digger that local
manufacturers are not trying to take advan-
tage of the advt:. Australian-made boots got
through the A.I.F. All military men knew
that we were the best shod of all the Allied
troops, and civilians read praises of the
Diggers’ footwear in hundreds of French and
English papers. It seems a pity that all this
gratuitous publicity should be lost.
Truly the whirligig of time is bringing its
revenges. Irvine, as Vic. Lieut.-Governor,
has nothing to do but assent to the Railway
Reclassification Bill, which sets up a Wages
Board to fix pay and conditions of employ-
ment of railway employees. It was Irvine
who as Premier brought down the coercion
measure known as the Strike Suppression
Bill in 1903, and horrified many of his sup-
porters. The collapse of the strike caused
the original draft to be remodelled before
it went to the House.
“B.B.” : Talking of hotel and cafg thieves
(B. 23/10/’l9), the record for nerve pro-
bably stands to the credit of two hard-doers
in Sydney. In one of the biggest hotels a
beautiful hall carpet had been newly laid
down. One morning up came two men
apparently employed by the establishment —•
coats and vests off, shirt-sleeves up and no
hats. With calm deliberation they unhitched
the bars that held the carpet in place, rolled
the treasure up, and staggered away with
it through a side door. No doubt they had
a cart waiting, and dumped the roll into it.
Anyway, that’s the last the hotel saw of its
carpet.
Melbourne City Council has suddenly
sprung the rents of some of its market-
shops from £3 13s. to £5 3s. a week. The
Bumbles lately decided on a daily market,
instead of a tri-weekly, allegedly “in the in-
terests of consumers”; and so that con-
sumers shall not be advantaged too greatly
the Council grabs an extra 30s. a week on
each of the score or two of market-shops.
The stall-holders’ turn will' doubtless come
later on. Bumble uses these profits to keep
the city rates down to the absurdly low
figure of Is. 4d. in the £l, thus relieving
the city landowner, while Brunswick, Foot-
scray and Mulgrave pay 2s. 6d. in the £l.
A note from a young man who shouldn’t
know anything about such things :
When they read that a pair of Victoria’s silk
stockings had been presented to the Melbourne
Gallery my old folk had recalled to them a similar
pair which had been presented to my maternal grand-
mother by a lady in waiting on the Queen. Appa-
rently Victoria was not the person of red flannel
we youngsters believed her to be. The stockings
were made of the finest black silk, with white tops
bearing a crown and the V.R. Their quality would
have been h fatal snare had the right legs fallen
into them. At the top there were loops of elastic.
“I believe, my dears, she wears a band of elastic
round her waist and from that band other bands
pass to these loops to keep the stockings in position
on her limbs,” the family lecturer would explain,
with a blush at speaking so frankly.
It seems absurd that the Melbourne sharp
who picks a visiting farmer’s pocket is liable
to a term in gaol, while there is no punish-
ment provided for the thieving agent who
returns 10s. a ton less than he receives for
Ins country client’s chaff. The Farm Produce
Agents Bill fathered by H. S. Bailey,
, for . * ort F , ail ’y. provides that agents
must furnish a sales note, giving- the name
ot the purchaser of the goof; sold on the
producer s account, with the prices obtained •
and a declaration of correctness must also
be signed. I roof of false declaration would
put the .swindling agent in a tight corner,
from which he might expect to emerge with
a close haircut and a nasty hominy-taste in
his mouth. The House of Fat Agents may
not have a single kindly feeling for such a
bill, but arguments against its ratification,
once it has passed the Assembly, will be very
hard for any Councillor to bring forward
with any show of high purpose.


r
<3
i
rx
W M
ff. -:/ - :
fl'C?
o1)°oP
00»
A- o^o'ft
•V>sog*g^.S&«. -
D 043
'o'u“-o
-VC
jP
reater Comfor ,
Co
ft
ft
*3*
ft
ft
ft*
uiiiiiiiiiiiiSii
■iiiiiinimiiia
iiiiiilixiliiaSii
imsiiiiiiuiiti
Only in a GOSSARD CORSET will every type of
figure find a perfect support to back and abdom-
inal muscles, complete freedom of bodily move-
ment that permits bending or stooping with
perfect comfort, safeguarded health and a sus-
tained energy that means increased efficiency in
those strenuous duties that have become a part of
the daily life of every active woman.
A Gossard Means Figure Perfection
In a GOSSARD, every woman may attain the ideal proportions of her
type; the flat, graceful back lines—the straight front with its delicate
accent at the waist —the beautifully moulded hip lines.
If every woman will take a little time to consider modern hygienic
corsetry—just enough so she may purchase her corset and wear it
with a full understanding of its possibilities she will attain without
effort what every woman values: style, comfort , and that greatest of all
nature’s gifts health.
Be sure you buy a getiuifie GOSSARD. The name fjossard on the inside
of your corset is your guarantee of the original front-lacing corset.
Insist upon it.
For sale at the leading stores listed below.
AUSTRALIA.
Farmer & Company Ltd., Sydney.
W. T. Waters & Co., Ltd., Sydney.
A. G. Robertson & Co., Lismore.
Buckley & Nunn, Ltd., Melbourne.
Harry Davies & Co., Ballarat.
Allan & Stark, Ltd., Brisbane.
A. W. Kirby & Co., Ltd., Rock-
hampton.
Crammond & Stark, Toowoomba.
Carroll’s, Townsville.
James Marshall & Co., Ltd., Adel-
aide.
NEW ZEALAND,
Milne & Choyce, Ltd., Auckland.
J. Ballantyne & Co., Christchurch.
D. I. C., Christchurch.
D. 1. C., Wellington.
Georse & Kersley, Ltd,
Lewis’ Ltd., Invereare
Wanganui.
ill.
Herbert, Haynes & Co.,
Dunedin.
J. Ballantync & Co., Timaru.
Ltd.,
TASMANIA.
Brownell Bros.. Ltd., Hobart. Ludbrooks, Launceston.
The H. W. Gossard Co., Inc.
Largest Makers of Fine Corsets
TORONTO
CHICAGO NEW YORK buenos aires
Made in the
United States and Canada
TJ/eyLcicc In Front
Worn with Health and Comfort
by Women the World Over
S 3
m
m
mm
m
%%
:‘i
■
a
i m
- ■„
Ideal Figure
Tall Slender
Ideal Figure
Short Slender
Ideal Figure
Tall Heavy
Ideal Figure
Short Heavy
Ideal Average
Figure
Ideal Figure
Large Below
Waist
Ideal Figure
Large Above
Waist
Ideal Figure
Curved Back
Ideal Figure
Short Waisted
•l


A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Shoe Hook, Lift and Glove Hook,
complete in Velvet-lined Case, 35/-
funtuui™
ji
uml '
n ff
A. Saunders’ Fish Eaters, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality, in
Velvet-lined Oak Case, Xylonite Handles, £5/5/-
A. Saunders’ Juvenile Knife, Fork, Spoon and
Serviette Ring, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality,
in Silk-lined Case, 30/-
CASED GOODS
. i
-
sfiLitiK
■
2<k
A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Manicure Set, 8 Pieces, plain
finest-quality Instruments, Velvet, and Silk-lined Case,
vvmg
IflgP
4ES
M
MM
m
W
'■ Jt
,W®
, A
A. Saunders’ Combination Case, comprising half doz. Afternoon
Teaspoons, half doz. Cake Forks, 1 pair Sugar Tongs, A 1 quality,
pure S'ilver-plated, 60/-
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller,
805-815 George St. ( opp 3 T» R T 4 ,'o L r Y >. Sydney.
A. Saunders’ Jam Spoons, in Case, pure Silver-plate d,
A 1 quality, 15/6.
Jam and Butter to match, 15/0.
B KHH
- E
m
R
A. Saunders’ Combination Case Teaspoons and Tongs, muter
Knife and Jam Spoon, pure Silver-plated, 21/-
-I
m
A. Saunders’ half doz. Cake Forks and Server, pure Silver-
plated, A 1 quality, complete in Velvet-lined Case, 25/--
More Pep and Power
for FORDS
—more miles to the gallon of fuel —smaller
petrol and tyre bills—steep hills on high—
easier starting—that’s what it means to fit
Liberty
Magneto
iTmr.
ffii*
\\\"'
Pc
IS I
%
'4
£a.p
a£&
' £*
The
Original
Bosch
100% American.
100% Efficient.
O-DAY your Ford can be equipped
with the World’s Supreme Ignition
System—the Liberty (Bosch)
Magneto. A special type with special
fittings is now available. Make your
Ford the equal of the world’s most
expensive cars in the important matter
of ignition. Let us demonstrate
the Liberty Magneto to you.
DISTRIBUTORS:
VICTORIA: Ralph Williams, Goodwin
Chambers, 386 Flinders Dane, Melb.
N.S.W.: George Wills & Co., Ltd., York
Street, Sydney.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: McGregor, Ltd.,
King William Street, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: W. E. Grigo
& Co., King Street, Perth.
Edison BlueAmberol
Records for October
sd
This list opens with the “Battle Hymn of the Republic”
(Thomas Chalmers and Chorus), a magnificent contri-
bution, and is followed by two other Concert Records of
more than ordinary merit.
Billy Murray and chorus contribute “Makin’s of the
U.5.A.,” and Collins and Harlan offer a treat in “I Miss
That Mississippi Miss That Misses Me, “On the Road
to Home, Sweet Home” (John Young and G. W.
Reardon) is particularly appealing, as also is that grand
old song, “Alice, Where Art Thou?” ( Ralph Errolle).
The Instrumental items are excellent, and the “Tickle-
Toe Fox-trot” from "Going Up” (Jazzarimba Orchestra),
now so extremely popular, will be an immense favorite.
Read through the list and make your selections early.
Blue Amfoerol Concert Records.
28279 —Battle Hymn of the Republic.
Baritone, orch. acc.
Thomas Chalmers and Chorus
28280 —Three Fishers. Baritone, orch. acc.
Arthur Middleton
25281 —Azt. niondjuk Scenes de la Csarda —
No. S. Violin, piano aec. by Jacques
Grunberg. Mary Zentay
Blue Amberol Regular Records.
3473—Says I to Myself, Says I. Orch. aoc.
Ada Jones
3476—Darktown Strutters’ Ball. Male Voices,
orch. acc. Premier Quartet
3479 —Dixie Volunteers. Male Voices, orch.
acc. Premier Quartet
3484 —My Irish Song of Songs. Counter-tenor,
orch. acc. Will Oakland
3489 Frivolity One-step. Xylophone, orch.
acc. George Hamilton Green
3490 — Hauds Across the Sea —March.
New York Military Band
3493 —Ivimmel March. Accordeon.
John J. Kimniel
3496—Each Stitch is a Thought of You, Dear.
Contralto and Quartet, orch. acc.
Helen Clark and Criterion Quartet
3499 —Tickle Toe —Fox-trot, Going Up.
Jazzarimba Orchestra
3501 I Miss That Mississippi Miss That Misses
Me. Orch. acc. Collins and Harlan
3502 — I’m Sorry I Made You Cry. Tenor,
orch. acc. George Wilton Ballard
3503 — When the Ships Come Home—Oh Lady !
Lady ! Contralto, orch acc.
Helen Clark and Chorus of Girls
3504 — Just a Baby’s Prayer at Twilight. Ist
and 2nd Soprano, and Alto, orch. acc.
Homestead Trio
3505 — Little Bit of Sunshine. Tenor, orch.
acc. Vernon Daihart
3500 —Alakiu’s of the U.S.A. Orch. acc.
BiDy Murray and Chorus
3508 — Rigoletto Selection, Part 1.
American Symphony Orchestra
3509 Rigoletto Selection, Part 2.
American Symphony Orchestra
3511 —I’m Just a Ragged Newsboy, but My
Heart's True Blue. Tenor, orch. acc.
Walter Van Brunt
3516 —On the Road to Home Sweet Home.
Tenor and Baritone, orch. acc.
John Young and George W. Reardon
3519 — I’ll Come Back to You When It’s All
Over. Baritone, orch acc.
Edward Allen and Chorus
3520 — Alice, Where Art Thou? Tenor, orch.
acc! Ralph Encib
3523 —Roamin’ in the Gloamin’. Orch. acc.
Glen Ellison
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD. (Wholesale only), 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.


jbtegai NriticEi ... _
T» Tltß SUPREME COURT* OF NEW ZEALAND;
-*• No. 1278.
NORTHERN DISTRICT.
IN DIVORCE.
George the Fifth by the Grace Of God the tlniteu
Kingdom bf Great Britain and Ireland King
Defender of the Faith.
TO CHRISTOPHER MORGAN CROCKETT:
WHEREAS Alice Maud Crockett of the City oi
Auckland in New Zealand married woman claiming
to have been lawfully married to you has filed her
petition against you in our said Court at Auckland
praying for a dissolution of her marriage with yOti
wherein she alleges’ that you have been guilty of
Jesertioi; Arid whereas by an Order of this Honorable
Coui't dated the sth day of .fitly 1919 leave was
granted to the Petitioner to proceed without personal
service and it was ordered that a copy of the
Petition and of the Citation herein should lie served
upOn ybur mother in Sydney together with a letter
requesting her to forward such citation and petition
on to you should, she know of your address ..and
that this abstract of the Citation herein approved by
the Registrar of this Honorable Court be advertise']
once in the newspaper known as the Sydney
Bulletin.
NOW TAKE NOTICE that unless within three
months from this advertisement of this abstract of
the Citation herein in the said Sydney Bulletin you
do file in our said Court at Auckland an answer to
the said Petition the said Court will at the first
Civil sittings of the Court held at the Supreme
Courthouse Auckland commencing after the lapse of
such three months as aforesaid proceed to hear the
said charge proved and to pronounce sentence not-
withstanding your absence.
AND FURTHER take notice that before filing the
said answer you must enter an appearance either in
person or by your Solicitor at the Registry of the
said Court at Auckland aforesaid and that if you
do not enter such appearance you will not be
allowed to address the Court either in person or by
Counsel at any stage of the proceedings.
Dated at Auckland the 18th day of July, 1919.
J. MARTIN,
Deputy Registrar.
This Abstract was extracted by Messrs. Hall
Skelton Skelton and Matthews Solicitors for Pe-
titioner whose address for service is at their office
Situate in Wellesley Street Auckland New Zealand
A copy of the said Petition may be inspected at the
Supreme Court office Auckland and at the office of
the said Hall Skelton Skelton and Matthews Any
friends Of the aboVenaiiled Respondent are requested
iOs forward this newspaper to him.
i*ubiie Notices,
improvement in roller bearings.
PA OMMONWEALtH Patent No. 11189, dated 25th
'y March,. 1898; fol an invention entitled “IM-
PROVEMENTS in Roller bearings.’* The
Governments aHd the public 6i the Commonwealth
iii’e hereby notified that all requirements in regard
td working upon royalty or Otherwise will be satis-
fifed by the undersigned.
HERBERT AVATSON AIGe.N, Patentee.
In cate of COLLISON and CO., Patent Attorneys,
183 Collins Street, Melbourne. 9th October, 1919.
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell 8 Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office—
44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
fsd
H 1
DISCERNING
DRESSERS.
You will always find that Abbey Shoes are
worn by those who are particular about
stylish and comfortable footwear.
We feature a high-grade Patent Derby Bal.,
Price 63/-
Also in Tan Willow Calf,
Price 52/6
Stocked in half-sizes, and narrow, medium
and wide fittings.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between Ci.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
amusement*.
Harry Rickards
Governing Director .
Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
.. hugh d. Mclntosh.
j ivoti THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT S.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday, at 2.30.
THE OFFICERS’ MESS.
The Latest and Greatest Musical Play.
Plans at Nicholson’s and the Tivoli.
VOLt THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
NEXT SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 8.
HUGH D. McINTOSH presents
LONDON'S LATEST SUCCESS.
TAILS UP.
Prices as usual.
CU 1 t 1C It I o N T It 1C A T It IC. SYDNEY.
Direction J, C, WILLIAMSON LTD.
NIGHTLY AT 8.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday at 2.
Three hours of sheer joy.
M. B. FIGMAN and
LOLITA ROBERTSON in
A TAILOR-MADE MAN.
A HIGH-SPEED COMEDY,
ENTIiiELt IN. THE FIGMAN MANNER.
Plan at Paling’s,
H
E It M ,\ .1 E S T Y ’ S. S Y II N E Y.
Direction J. C. WIIUIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MatinCes "Wednesday and Saturday at 2.
THE
NEW ENGLISH MUSICAL COMEDY CO.
GOING UP.
Plan at Paling's. Prices as usual.
PA I, AC E ’l’ II 1C AT It IC. SYI>N 1C V
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
SARA ALLGOOD in
OLD LADY 31,
A Sunshine Comedy.
306 LAUGHS 306.
FUNNIEST COMEDY EVER WRITTEN.
Plan at Nicholson’s.
Amusements.
CT. JAMES’S HALL, SYDNEY.
NOVEMBER 11.
THE WALTER BENTLEY PLAYERS,
in a varied programme, dramatic and humorous.
MR. WALTER BENTLEY
as the Bishop of Bath and Wells, in E. O’Fertall’s
sketch,
THE BISHOP AND THE BUNS.
Box Plan is at Paling’s.
u
MON I* ICTL' It E TIIEAT It E S
THE PICK OF THE WORLD'S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYCEUM,
STRAND, GLOBE, LYRIC, EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC, GRAND, KING’S CROSS.
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
Hick ma.iicsty’.s theatric, mici.iso rune.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
SHORT SEASON OF GRAND OPERA.
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY), MADAME BUT-
TERFLY. TO-MORROW, FAUST.
NEXT SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 8—
TATA'S OF HOFFMANN.
Plan at Allan's. Popular Prices,
Til 1C ATIt E It OYA I„ M ICI.KOI RNIC.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the Famous Play
of Sentiment, Pathos and Humor,
LIGHTNIN’.
Plan at Allan’s.
Prices as usual.
KING’S THEATRE. MHI.ISOU It N E.
Lessees: BAILEY * GRANT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
KATE HOWARDS and her Brilliant Company in the
Popular Success,
’POSSUM PADDOCK.
Prices as usual.
Plan at Allan’s.
CLOCKS.
Folding Clocks,
are, perhaps, the most acceptable present
that can be given.
In perfect taste in any room, as we
Sthcfc them in every color and shade.
So unhbtKisive and yet so looked at
because of their reliability and accuracy.
Then so admirable fdr travel purposes,
as they fold fiat, dnd sO take little x'oom,
For our back-country home's pre-
eminently suitable, as they, being three-
quarter-plate lever movements, stand the
rough handling in transit without, injury.
We carry an enormous stock in every
size—some 36 hours, some eight-day move-
ments, some with luminous dials, and all
of them are guaranteed for 15 years.
m
ill
ii-WS
\
IBmSaWiSisS
sgsmm
Absolutely reliable Clock, with luminous dial, in
folding leather case, 55/-
Fairfax Roberts Ivtd.,
Plain Figures. Cnsh orlv.
The Oldest Jewellery House In Sydney,
23 and 25 Hunter Street.
SAFEGUARD YOUR HEALTH
QtJ.Collis Browne's
CWorodywe
The Original and Only Genuine.
Til K lIEST MEDICINE FOB
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
mid in the Cough of IiKONCUITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVEKISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
cone.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS Mlili A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery
01 all Chemists. Prices in England, IjS, Sh, 5/
Made in England.
SYDNEY 8-HOUR ART
OFFICIAL RESULT.
UNION, 1919.
Drawn November 1, 1919.
& _ 'Z'A
1 — 28,313
2
3
4
5
6
7
8—
9
10—182.660
11—
12—
13—
14—
15—
16—
17—
18—
19—
20—
21—
22
23
24
25
26
27
28—
29
30—
31—
32
33
34
35
36
37
38—
39
40—
41—
42
43
44
45
46
47
48—
49
50—
-234.360
-337,726
-174,20&
-287,394
-267,866
-36,695
300
78.015
215,719
171,688
75,781
286,966
70 — 286,609
71—
72
73
74
75
76
77
78—
79
80—
81—
82—
83—
84—
85—
86—
87—
88—
89—
90—
91—
92
93
94
95
96
97
98—
99
100—79,256
-354,303
158-
198,013 201—81,704
338,303 202—280,5
295,7371203 —326,479
44,450 [204—97,922
17,851 1205 —156.055
199,779 206—87,480
245,631 207—360,785
277,2151208—287,586
108
109— 226,875115:)—833,760 209—255,501
110—
111—
112-
113-
114-
115-
116-
117-
118-
119-
120-
121-
122-
123-
124-
-187,257
-281,569
-310,1601164
-113,382j165
-139,1911166
-94,772 |167-
160— 125,913j210—352,077
161— 211 —226,128
162 — 171,766 212 —339,789
163 228,200!213—176,831
-368,3091
-268,380 i
-145,038
-331,382
-355,513
-188,649
-153,628
215,867 214-
-97,849
-39,475
-276,567|217-
215-
216-
125
126
127
128—
129
130—
131—
132
133
134
135
136
137
138—
139
140—
141—
142
143
144
145
146
147
148—
149
150—
-181,843
-351,877
-176,920
-235,454
218—
219
220
221
222 267,456
108,320 223—277,381
1,614 224—139,208
175 — 161,9391225 —248,613
176 226—153,295
168— 97,365
169
170—
171—
172
173
174
177
178—
179
180—
227
228
229
230
181— 216,529 231—334,621
182— 327,793|232—16,058
183— 233—310,999
184— 335,547|234—74,099
185— 152,738 235—154,916
186—
187— 144,705-237—124,011
188— |238—367,325
189— 179,840 239—182,625
190— 240—358.671
191— 156,521'241—162,649
192 367,322|242—114,076
193 243—103,780
194 244—149,110
195 325,283 245—37,809
196 353,261 246—348,109
197 247—298,978
198— 141,319 248—284,505
199 360,070 249—148,891
200— 122,233;250—118,087
, ' ‘P-
; | S
- _ _
251 — 14,603
252 125,344
253
254
255
256
257
258
259
260 229,411
261 24,569
262
263
264
265
266
267
268
269
270
271
272 180,482 j
273
274
275
276
277
278
279
280—
281—
282
283
284
285 — 229,905
286
287
288—
289
290
291
292
293
294
295
296
297
298
299
300—
SC fZ
c a;
s is
E r ?
. 5*
301—
302 263,624
303
304
305
306
307
308—
309 — 233,011
310—
311—
312
313
314
315
316
317
318—
319
320
321
322
323
324
325
326
327 ,556
328 — 360,035
329
330
331
332
333
334
335
336
337
338
339
340
341
342
343
344
345
346
347
348
349
350
Ch
351-
352-
353-
354-
355-
tt
309,579
139,482
76,216
208,549
156,423
356
357
358
359 235,500
360
361
362 — 246,900
363
364
365
340,804
75,214
282,945
276.728
241,510
255,963
372 206,522
373 358,489
3J 4—189,146
375 325.790
376
377
378
379
380—
381—
382
383
384
385
386
387
388—
389
390
391
392
393
394
395 369,106
396
397
398
399
400—
We, the undersigned, hereby certify that we have this day witnessed the drawing of the above Art
Union and declare the same has been conducted in a proper manner and with absolute fairness.
(Signed)
FRED W. CLARKE. J.P.. Australian Worker.
CHAS. 6HURCHLAND, The Sun Newspaper.
ALLAN McDOUGALL, Senator.
M. TONER, Evening News.
H. BOYD, Manager Austral Press, Ltd.
JOHN W. DOYLE, M.L.A.
11. N. SOUTER, .Sergeant of Police.
The Prizes will be paid, over to the winners on FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 7,
at 10 a.m., at the Trades Hall, Goulburn Street. Sydney.
Trades Hall, Sydney, November 1, 1919. ARTHUR W. YAGER, Secretary Eight Hours Committee.
Amusements.
HOYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURICE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
THIS. WEEK’S FEATURES:
DUSTIN FAiINUM in BEN. BE AIR.
BILLIE BURKE in
GOOD GRACIOUS, ANN A BELLE.
Prices as usual.
|y|A,IESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
THE ONE WOMAN,
By THOS. DIXON.
Free Love its theme.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
|y| ELBOURNE TO W N H AT, L,
SATURDAY EVENING NEXT, NOV. 8.
MELBOURNE
SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA.
Conductor,' ALBERTO, ZET.MAN.
MAGNIFICENT PROGRAMME.
FULL ORCHESTRA OF 80 PERFORMERS.
Admission: 3/3 (Reserved)', 2/2 and 1/1.
Box Plan opens at Allan's.
QLYMI’IA. M IRTHS’ PARK. .MELBOURNE.
WIRTHS’ NEW CIRCUS LTD,
GREATEST SHOW. ON EARTH.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays and Holidays.
Plan at Glen s..
-|-HE ALLAN WILKIE COMPANY,
including Miss FREDISWYDE HUNTER-WATTS,
Touring New Zealand in
KINDLE , WAKES, CANDIDA, THE SCHOOL FOR
SCANDAL, SHE STOOPS TO CONQUER. TRILBY,
CAMILLE, THE SILVER KING, THE MIDNIGHT
WEDDING.
OPENING AT WELLINGTON NOVEMBER 10.
BACK TO KYN.ET.ON.
JANUARY 24 TO 31, 1920.
ATHLETIC SPORTS.
JANUARY 20.
£lO3. Including Pedestrian events £55.
T. W. SUTHERLAND, Gen. Sec.
Kyneton, , Victoria. •
|y|ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
•he productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
WORLD and SF.LZNICK.
BRITANNIA THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
Business Notices.
Conspicuously Well Hatted but not
Hatted Conspicuously.
ilicliart Sunt
Spring and Summer Models.
Stetson
Knox
Herbert Johnson
Tress
Scott’s
A. J. White
Woodrow’s.
ďs
314 George Street
(near Hunter Street), SYDNEY.


THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE
(STATE GUARANTEE) ACTS AS
EXECUTOR, TRUSTEE, ADMINISTRATOR, ATTORNEY and AGENT.
Expert, Efficient and Economical Management.
Write or call for full particulars, CULWULLA CHAMBERS, 67 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
T. W. GARRETT, Public Trustee.
r
YG
«OORO & SON
P V t OHDON. ENGLAND 1 X
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
DT
Swift & Company Ltd.. Australasian Ajrents. 26 80 Clarence St.. Sydney,
THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
fsd
The FORMOSA Silk Suit
A LIGHT SUIT THAT HOLDS ITS SHAPE
Formosa Biscuit-colored Silk is of heavier weight than Tussore
and similar silks, and somewhat different in character. It is a
'!"T substantial silk —ideal for a Summer washing suit.
Peapes’ quote a distinctive “Xo-Veste” style. Sac Coat with
three detachable pearl buttons, no lining nor padding; trousers,
side, hip and fob pockets, and permanent turn-up bottoms.
READY TO WEAR .... 75/-
The-e is good quality in the material of this suit —and good style
in the making. It is particularly good value. Please state height,
chest, waist and inside leg measurements.
PEAPES’ PAY POSTAGE.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 and 311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Going- Up”
Criterion “A Tailor-made Man”
Palace “Old Lady 31”
Tivoli “The Officers’ Mess”
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
St. James's Hall (11th) . “The Bishop and the Buns”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's Grand Opera
Royal “Liglitnin’ ”
Kino's “ ’Possum Paddock”
Tivoli “Tails Up”
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Olympia ’. Wirths’Circus
Town Hall (Bth) .. Melbourne Symphony Orchestra
An interesting matter in Melbourne last
week was a revival of “Everyman,” staged
by the Mermaid Play Society at a spacious
school-hall in South Yarra. Mr. Arthur
Goodsall, formerly of the Elizabethan Stage
Society and Benson’s Shakspeare Co., was
the enthusiast at the back of the proceed-
ings; also he was the Messenger who spoke
the prologue and epilogue very impressively,
and played worldly Goodes in a caustic Shy-
lockian vein. Melbourne has almost for-
gotten that the late J.C.W. produced “Every-
man” at the Town Hall many years ago,
in a rather bald and unconvincing style, with
Julius Knight in the name-part and a co.
otherwise composed of professional actresses.
The South Yarra school-hall show was more
artistically staged. It had the sentiment of
an old morality play, and was daring as wcH
as picturesque. Death, with skeleton effects
painted on his black background, introduced
a kettledrum and a low-comedy gait into his
entrances. The scene between this raucous,
gruesome joker and Everyman (Rose
Quong), made-up on the lines of Richard
the Third as to costume, was a good dramatic
sequel to the previous tableau —with a fine
bit of crimson-angel color in it—wherein the
figure of the Almighty was not too misty to
leave a doubt about the mediaeval, and still
popular, conception of Him. “Most people,”
says Bernard Shaw, “picture God as an angry
old gentleman with whiskers.” The Deity
in Goodsall’s production was merely stern
and stately, but what He lacked in anger He
made up for in whiskers.* Clothed in the
fashion of the Tudor period the other charac-
ters were mostly taken by Grammar School
young women, the elocution in the more
important parts being as satisfactory as th“
stage-management. The performance had a
true religious tang in it. Miss Quong talked
and posed without lapsing into the theatrical-
ism of a Julius Knight, and from the time
when Everyman’s least alarmed friends
helped him (i.e., her) to dress for inter-
ment, the play hadn’t an unimpressive
minute. One rarely heard a titter drop.
The Firm’s Melbourne season of grand
opera commenced with “Butterfly” at. Her
Majesty’s on Saturday. Comfortable Amy
Castles quite filled the title-role and allowed
her soprano to play the heaviest part in the
tragedy. Though Amy has advanced in her
dramatic conception of the character, she is
“Going Up,” at
Sydney Majesty’s.
Louis, the dancing
mechanician
(Jack Hooker).
somewhat want-
in g in the
Oriental artifi-
ces which made
the Jap lady an
invitation to ad-
venture. In
fact, her kim-
on o and her
hairdressing are
the strongest
clues to her new
national-
ity. Walter
Wheat le y ’ s
Pinkerton was
in fine vocal
condition, and
contributed his
quota to the
musical mo-
lasses Of till.'
opening a c t.
Raymond Loder,
as Sharpless,
was not so bad
as his eyes were
painted. N o
previous Sharp-
less ever ex-
pressed his wor-
ries with such,
loads of mid-
night in the
ootical cavity.
Nevertheless, he
sang well, and faithfully carried out his
miserable duties as the bearer of dubious
tidings in the second act. Leah Myers’s
Suzuki suffered from no irregularity in voice
and deportment, and never lost her place
in the picture. Tom Minogue (Goro) was
more likeable than the Bonze of Fred Col-
lier, and Browning Mummery is fined sd.
for being under weight. To-night (Thurs-
day) “Butterfly” will be repeated with the
same cast, and to-morrow Ralph Errolle's
Faust will be given another trial. On Satur-
day “The Tales of Hoffmann.”
_ “Possum Paddock,” staged at Melbourne
King’s on Saturday, is the latest and crudest
from the kindergarten of humor started
by Bert Bailey with “On Our Selection.”
The Bailey version of Steele Rudd’s nar-
rative is, however, distinguished by classic
beauty when compared with Kate Howarde’s
exposition of Outback farce. A feeble
attempt is made to parallel the juvenile
Rudds with shoddy imitations of Dave and
Joe, and Mum and Dad and all the rest of
the crew are unashamedly thrust in to
awaken grateful memories of their more
diverting forerunners. The recognition the play
received on Saturday was, in fact, a tribute
to the Selection rather than to the Paddock.
Fred Macdonald has a large share of the con-
versation as Billy, but he fails to revive his
original Dave, because the restorative isn’t
sufficiently powerful. Bobby McQuade, con-
ceived in the likeness of Joe Rudd, is played
rather poorly by Jack Souter; Rose Rooney
is attractive enough as Nancy McQuade; and
others in a show that has not one spark of
originality include John Cosgrove and Kate
Howarde, the latter as the city widow who
finally annexes the squatter, Hugh Bracken,
“’POSSUM PADDOCK," AT
MELBOURNE KING’S.
Jim Perry as Shad
the rouseahout.
Louis Machilton as
the young Englishman.
impersonated by Jack Kirby in a style and
physique startlingly reminiscent of George
Willoughby. A couple of grotesque bush
maidens and a semi-conscious rouseabout of
Israelitish bearing are mild signs of freak-
ishness in the characterisation. For the
most part, though, they overload the play
with patter, until one can hardly see the plot
for the padding.
sic si: si: #
“Lightnin’,” at Melbourne Royal, has
another two weeks to go—-and perhaps more,
for the public appetite seems still far from
satisfied.
At Melbourne Tivoli the nights of “Buzz
Buzz” are numbered until Friday. On
Saturday the present musical comedy co.
will make a loud splash in “Tails Up.”
5 1* v $ $
In “Good Gracious, Annabelle,” sparkling
at Hoyt’s, Melbourne, Billie Burke is every-
thing but the “Gracious,” and scores all
Marie Tempest’s hits w T ith her divertingly
brusque behavior. Tom Mix in “Hell
Roarin’ Reform” is the current cowboy
phenomenon who gets the undertaker into
difficulties, but preserves a curate’s regard
for anything feminine. In “Ben Blair”
Dustin Farnum looks for trouble and finds
enough to keep him from boredom. At the
Melba Bill Hart is putting up the usual bar-
rage in “The Gunfighter,” whilst the Britan-
nia’s main suit is Alic Q lUadv ’iffio j s stir-
ring film-fanciers in “Marie, Ltd.”
** * *
“Old Lady 31,” which supplied Melbourne
with molasses during the sugar famine,
crossed over to Sydney last week, and the
art of Sara Allgood and a capable suuport-
ing co. carry the flimsy play of sentiment
along at the Palace. All that is required of
sweet-tempered Angie is to be winsome and
smile at adversity and scandal until the
cloud over the old ladies’ home turns itself
inside out and show’s its golden lining, which
in this instance is 8000 dollars. Eardley
Turner dodders in a likeable w 7 ay as Abe,
the ancient, wiio is “Old Lady 31,” and sup-
plies his share of
the wintry sun-
shine. In the
home in which he
is the only male
refugee there are
such fine per-
formers as Maggie
Moore, Eily Mal-
yon, Nan Taylor,
Ada St. Clair,
Marie D’Alton and
Katie Towers, and
they all make up
fearlessly—w e 1 1,
almost fearlessly.
The tide of faded
femininity ebbs
and flows until the
men in the audi-
ence feel almost as
scared as Mike
(Willie Driscoll),
the aged woman-
hater, u r ho odd-jobs
sourly at the home
and scrambles
through the win-
dow 7 when he finds
himself hemmed -in.
By the way of re-
lief, Elsie Parkes,
the dainty dancing
girl ot past Tivoli
shows, carries on a
toy romance with
Laurence Cecil.
“Old Lady 31” is
a play by women
“Old Lady 31,” at
Sydney Palace.
Sara Jane (Ada St.
Claire) registers
jealousy.
for women, and tne sentimentalists can roll
up again. The sweets are ready.
After 11 weeks of it, “The Officers’ Mess”
finds the wine running out at the
Tivoli (Sydney). The last nights are an-
nounced, and the management sends heart-
rending calls to “the six most beautiful
girls in Australia” to accept £lO per wrnek
for six months. They are wanted for “As
You Were.”
❖❖ ❖ ❖
“The Sentimental Bloke” mooches off the
screen at Sydney Royal on Friday night.
“Going Up” is still earning its petrol at
Sydney Majesty’s, and the New Comics see
the dust thick on their travelling-bags.
“A Tailor-made Man” is running a great
race at Sydney Cri. This undoubted cham-
pion has now been at it for five weeks, and
has not yet even approached the straight.
* * -fi *
Sydney Crystal Palace and Strand make
“Marie, Ltd.,” a huge millinery box which
holds all the latest models. The film is
worth seeing, but The Bulletin trembles
to think of the “copies” that will be pro-
duced by the little suburban milliner who
gets her inspirations from “the pictures.”
Warren Kerrigan at the Lyceum is a nice,
well-bathed young man who with the aid of
a professional crook-chum burgles the safe
of his old man’s rival, and gets away with
the swag of documents and the rival’s
daughter. But the girl is willing, so no great
harm is done. “Burglars for a Night” is
the title. “Home” is the other special of
the Lyceum bill, with Mildred Harris as
the girl who is ashamed of her plumber dad.
However, when cast among the marble halls
of her patrician girl-friends, Millicent finds
the atmosphere chilly, and gladly turns to
the hot-water pipes put in by dad in their
own home, sweet home. “Arizona” and “The
Roaring Road,” with Doug Fairbanks and
Wallace Reid as the stars, are the quick-
motion attractions at Hoyt’s and the Hay-
market.
'!• *!* 'l* *l*
The opera season at Adelaide Royal ended
with an evening of picked bits. Enthusiasm
was keen all through the season, and Rigo
had to make a final speech, in which he
took credit, fairly enough, for the big chances
given to young Australian singers. The Royal
has since been getting ready for the coming
of a different kind of opera. “Maytime.” The
old “Colleen Bawn” at the Tivoli wears well.
Conrad Power drops in a ballad wherever
possible, and so does Doris Mills in the name-
part ; Selwyn Lindsajy and Miles Bernard
score as Danny Mann and the priest. At
the Majestic, Colini, a returned soldier, has
been doing clever tricks with bayonets and
the Cinquevalli cannon-ball; and Archie and
Gertie Falls give the programme the variety
on the athletic s’de which it needed. West’s
Pictures score with Mary Pickford in “Daddy
Long Legs” : the sugary side is less in evi-
dence than the comic, where Mary has the
help of a remarkable smallbov with freckles.
At this house, too, 11. B. Warner gives a
fine study of a renegade Englishman. At
Wondergraph “The Greatest Thing in Life”
shows how war can make a bounder into a
man, and Charles Ray has an athletic-senti-
mental stunt. The Grand warns the public
against hurrying into the Divorce Court, and
at the Pav. Chaplin falls about effectively on
a rink.
“F.C.”: I have often wondered who really
did win the war, and at last I know, on the
authority of the Commonwealth Govern-
ment Gazette. That comic journal noti-
fies that a war bonus of £l2 each is to be
paid to the sevea tipstaffs of the High Court.
Walter Bentley is going to repeat a small
dramatic experiment at St. James’s Hall.
Sydney, on October 11. The name of it is
“The Bishop and the Buns,” which was
originally a Lone Hand story by “Kodak”
(Ernest O’Ferrall). Some years ago Bent-
ley gave it its first run at Sydney Majesty’s
at an Actors’ Day matinee. Another bit of
ecclesiastical humor from the Lone Hand
is to be tinkered up for Sara Allgood. She
will try it on London presently.
The seventh Minister whom the Peake
Government in S.A. declared to be a neces-
sary commodity has been refused by the
Assembly. Members decided that the* hard
times, which make the increase of their own
scanty £2OO a year impossible, was a bar
to increased expenditure in the other direc-
tion. " Nationalists and Labor for once
voted together, several Liberals broke away,
and the result was a heavy defeat for Peake
—24 to 14. But he has long got past taking
notice of a small thing like that.
“75”: Hughes never calls the Holy Bible
to his aid without suggesting that it is a
long time since he studied that interesting
work. The other day he remarked that the
war-gratuity question was like “that which
confronted Aaron -when he struck the rock
and water gushed forth,” and later, in the
same speech, he referred to “the prophets of
Baal, who came to curse and remained to
bless and glorify the Lord.” The orator
who can confuse Aaron with his brother
Moses and Baal with Balaam is either the
owner of an untidy memory or a person
whose religious instruction has been neg-
lected.
Sydney Evening News recently devoted
several columns to explanation of why cot-
ton, boots and other delicacies were dear.
These served to clear the local dealer of
profiteering and put the blame on the over-
seas man. The old paper could have saved
a lot of valuable space by saying that, as
our industries are either languishing or don’t
exist, for lack of Protection, we are at the
mercy of the manufacturer and middleman
in other countries. But not so. A few
weeks before the wise sheet shut down on a
correspondence concerning Freetrade and
Protection because it was a “worn-out
subject.” There’s many an editor who
wishes his clothes were as fresh.
Carmichael, M.L.A., has been up on the
N.S.W. North Coast inquiring into the alle-
gations of a Bulletin writer regarding the
influx of Chinese to the banana-growing in-
dustry. His report:—
On one place 50 Chinese are employed, and on
another 25, and 1 find there is the most extra-
ordinary laxity in registering or cheeking these
arrivals as they come through. A number seem to
come direct from China, and how they are per-
mitted to land in view of the restrictions supposed*
to be in force is not apparent. In the small town
of Mullumbimby I found 28 Chinamen had registered
during the current year. Of these 10 had landed
at Thursday Island during 1919, and their pass-
ports show this is their first landing.
Carmichael’s statement is specific enough to
call for a whole lot of explanation from-
. Digger” Hughes and Massy Greene, Min-
ister for Customs and member for Mullum-
bimby. If it were a matter only of leakage
the Federal Government might have its
excuses; but, according to Carmichael, manv
of the newcomers have passports, and en-
tered openly at Thursday Island. Who
issued those passports, and under what
authority?
'•T-F-H.” (London) : “The Voice from
the Minaret,” Marie Lohr’s latest produc-
tion _as actress-manageress of the Globe, is
nothing like so Oriental as the title would
suggest. It has its starting-point in “the
purple East ’ and that is all. The action
develops almost entirely in England. Briefly
summarised, Robert ILichens has brought
Nathaniel Hawthorn’s “Scarlet Letter” up
to date. The play centres around the amours
of a Church of England clergyman with a
beautiful titled lady whom he first met in
Damascus. As Lady Caryll, Marie Lohr
lias a congenial role and scores unmistak-
ably, _ rising to great heights of passionate
emotion. Norman Mclvinnell has the un-
sympathetic part of her husband, Sir Leslie
Caryll, but he furnishes a fine study of a
cynic, unprincipled and relentless. The
Times exclaims: “And the lady was so
devilishly, so deliciously, worth loving, for
she is played by Marie Lohr at her very
best. When she made the spiritual sacrifice
and went into retreat you cried under your
breath—‘What a sheer waste!’ And yet she
was so calm and sweet and saint-like, the
rogue!” William Archer in the Star says
Marie “plays Lady Caryll with unwonted
passion and delicate skill,” and calls the
piece “an extremely interesting play, a most
auspicious harbinger of the new season.”


What About a
Murdoch Panama?
With the hot, sizzling days approaching you’ll need a cool, shady Panama.
Murdoch’s Genuine South American Panamas are unequalled for value.
Now is the time to prove it. Step in, sir, and get one of these light, cool, comfy hats.
Genuine Native Panamas —every one guaranteed, 2J4-, 2%-
and 2 % -inch brims, 1 % -inch bands—English Grease-proof
Leather,
Post Free
Anywhere
Make your choice to-day, or write Desk R.
“Satisfaction or money back.”
Murdoch’s
in Park
St. Ltd.,
Sydney
“Complete Outfitters for Men and Boys.**
10-INCH
DOUBLE-SIDED
BRITISH-MADE
10-INCH
DOUBLE-SIDED
FROM
41-
EACH
Records kA
FROM
41-
EACH.
Some Splendid COLUMBIA RECORDS
of Grand Opera Selections.
All »Sing>le-sided at 8/6 each.
ELSA STRALIA, Soprano.
7191. — Ernani—Ernani, Ernani. Involami (Verdi). In Italian, with Orchestra.
7198. — Semiramide—Bel raggio (Rossini). In Italian, with Orchestra.
7194. —Aida—Bitorna Vincitor (Verdi). In Italian, with Orchestra.
7196. —Cavalleria Rusticana: Voi lo Sapete (Mascagni). In Italian, with Orchestra.
7197. —II Trovatore: Taeca la notte placida (How peaceful was the night) (Verdi). In
Italian, with Orchestra.
MARIA BARRIENTOS.
, The World-Famous Coloratura Soprano.
7181. Lucia di Lammermoor: Rondo e Cadenza (The Mad Scene) (Donizetti). In
Italian, with Orchestra and Flute Obbligato.
7182. Lucia di Lammermoor: Cavatina, Regnava nel Silenzio (Silence o’er all)
(Donizetti). In Italian, with Orchestra.
7183. —Pearl of Brazil. Charmant Oiseau (Charming Bird) (David). In French, with
Orchestra and Flute Obbligato.
7181.—The Last Rose of Summer (Qui Sola, vergin rosa). In Italian, with Orchestra.
7185. —Lakme: Bell Song, Qu va la Jeune Hindoue (Delibes). In Italian, with Orchestra.
HIPOLITO LAZARO, Tenor.
7176 Aida — “Celeste Aida” (Verdi). In Italian, with Orchestra.
7177. —L’Africana: “O Paradiso” (Meyerbeer). In Italian, with Orchestra.
7178. L’Puritani: “A te o cara” (Often, Dearest) (Bellini). In Italian, with Orchestra.
7179. Martha: “Jl’appari” (Ah, so pure) (Flotow). In Italian, with Orchestra.
7180. —Faust: Salve. Dimora easta e pura (Hail, thou dwelling, pure and holy)
(Gounod). In Italian, with orchestra.
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR COLUMBIA RECORDS
SYDNEY, N.S.W.—Grafonola, Ltd., Daking House, Rawson Place.
MELBOURNE, VIC., and TASMANIA. —Messrs. Hugo YVertheim Pty.,
Ltd., 173 William Street, Melbourne.
BRISBANE, Q. —King and King, Ltd., Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A.—Cornell, Etd., 123 Pirie Street.
PERTH. W.A.—H. R. Firth, Royal Arcade. ,
AUCKLAND, N.Z.—Arthur H. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.—Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.—Wehley Sons & Gofton, Ltd., 243 High Street.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.—Webley Sons & Gofton, Ltd.
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.
m
•■ssi***** -mm
*«**
is*
a****®*®
3»®sa
n.
«
i*#i&iii*^***
84
A
@1
sg
«sr
: 4 •; *
v;%
4 : mg
■}\ ■ I
■v, 'S
1 pas |
kwm
ws£,sm.
fJS@BF '
Group of “Heat-Treated CHRO3IE” Steel Roll Shells.
Listed on Lloyd’s Register, London,
as Manufacturers of
STEEL CASTINGS
CRUSHING SPARES
FOR ALL CLASSES OF
Ore Reduction Machinery
CAST STEEL —Battery Liners, Cams,
Heads and Tappets,
Tube Mill Ends, Gear-
ing, Truck Wheels, etc.
CHROME CAST STEEL For Battery Shoes and Dies, and also Roll Shells and Parts, which
“HEAT TREATED.” have to be machined but which are required to give a maximum
amount of wear.
MANGANESE CAST STEEL—For Rockcrusher Jaws, etc.
Send your INQUIRIES with SKETCHES and DETAILS to the MANUFACTURERS.
CHAS. RUWOLT PTY. LTD.
Victoria Street, Richmond, Victoria.
AGENTS FOR NEW SOUTH WALES: ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER AND CO., CIRCULAR QUAY EAST, SYDNEY.
AGENTS FOR QUEENSLAND: THE AUSTRALIAN MACHINERY CO. LTD., MARY STREET, BRISBANE.


USE COCOANUT OIL
FOR WASHING HAIR.
Girls and women wlio wish to keep their
hair in nice condition should he most cautious
in the soap they wash it with. Most soaps
and ready-mixed shampoos contain excessive
quantities of alkali. This dries the scalp,
makes the hair brittle and is very injurious.
Just ordinary colinated cocoanut oil (a pure,
saponified, but quite greaseless liquid), is
far better than the most costly soap you could
possibly use for a shampoo, for this cannot
possibly hurt your hair.
Merely wet your hair with water and rub
it on. A couple of teaspoonsful makes a
perfect flood of rich, thick, creamy lather, and
cleanses both hair and scalp thoroughly. The
lather rinses out easily, and takes with it
every trace of dust, dirt, dandruff or excessive
oiliness. The hair dries quickly and evenly, !
and comes out fine and silky, bright, glossy
and fluffy, appeai-ing to be heavier than it is.
And, best of all, this colinated cocoanut oil
leaves the hair as easy to dress again as
though you hadn’t washed it at all. You . can
get colinated cocoanut oil at almost any
chemist, but be sure it’s “colinated,” which is
not expensive—a few ounces lasting a long, j
long time. I
PAIN VANISHES! CORNS LIFT OUT
AFTER FEW DROPS.
Let To-day’s Corn Pain be Your Last Corn Pain.
Lift Any Corn or Callous Out with Finger-tips.
Wonderful ! Girls ! Save it a Corner on Dressing-stand.
XNB
aar, .'\
No bunkum! No bother! Corns,
callouses —hard or soft—sore or
sensitive—all yield and loosen
and lift off—absolutely pain-
lessly.
This newly-found com-
pound is named Frozol-
ice, and is still another
use of that great medi-
cal discovery “ether.”
Stop at any chemist’s for
a little bottle of . Frozol-Ice,
costing but a trifle, but which is ample
to free the feet from each and every
corn and callous.
Apply some drops on to a delicate
corn or callous. Like a flash the soreness
vanishes, and soon the corn or callous peels
right off with the finger-tips.
Frozol-Ice is absolutely non-irritant, doesn’t
even inflame the surrounding healthy flesh.
Just fancy! No agony at all. no sting or sore-
ness while using, or afterwards, simply a
shrivelling, drying up of corns and callouses.
Girls! Save a corner on your dressing-
table for Frozol-Ice, and never be the “wall-
flower” of the ballroom again. Just some
drops of Frozol-Ice when corns begin aching.
Pain disappears—corn dies!
True Frozol-Ice is flattered by worthless
imitations. Avoid them by insisting on the
green label.
This Simple Rule
Soon Strengthens
a Delicate Stomach
It really is unnecessary to dose yourself
with pepsin pills or artificial digestives, or to
live on a miserable nursery diet. If you will
observe one easy rule you can eat the hearty,
nourishing foods that your appetite craves
and your body needs. That rule is to take
a teaspoonful of Salix Magnesia in a half-
glass of hot water with each meal. Salix
Magnesia is non-laxative and harmless, and
possesses medicinal qualties that promptly
overcome 'impaired digestion, fermentation,
acidity, catarrhal conditions of the stomach,
gas, distress after eating, and other stomach
disorders. As magnesia is prepared in vari-
ous ways, be certain to insist on obtaining it
from your chemist in the Salix form, especi-
ally recommended for stomash purposes.
From Poverty Point to Luxury—a meal at the “PAVILION” —Sydneys Dining Rooms de luxe, Circular Quay.
POVERTY
POINT
MOËT &
CHANDON
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
“Irma C.”: Some time in the 15th cen-
tury, in the valley of Vice, France, there
lived a presser of cloth, by name Oliver
Basselin. He had
“Old Lady 31," at
Sydney Palace.
Eardley Turner as
Abe.
a gift for com-
posing satirical
verses, which he set
to music. As his
songs were sung
throughout the val-
ley in which he
dwelt, they acquired
the nickname of
“val-” or “vau-de-
vire” couplets. In
drifting away from
the place of its
birth, the soubri-
quet gradually de-
generated into the
word “vaudeville,”
and the character of
the verses altered.
A modern French
vaudeville, is a little
theatrical piece, in-
terspersed with
songlets : abo u t
1529 the French
playwright Scribe
wrote a one-act
comedy-drama en-
titled “Michel et
Christine,” a n d
that was perhaps
the first that was christened a “vaudeville.”
What we call vaudeville is in France called
“varieties” or “variety.”
“Ike Pagliacci”: A Newtown Majestic
(Sydney) revival of “Trilby” sees veteran
Andrew Hodge as Gecko, a part he played in
the dim long ago to the Svengali of D’Orsay
(>gden. D’Orsay, who wasn’t strong music-
ally, had two pianos back to back to enable
an invisible pianist to make the actual music
while the actor’s fingers lightly touched the
keys. One memorable night the off-stage
artist fell foul of Ogden over a business
matter. Svengali, Trilby and Gecko wont
on, with the lady installed at her post in
the wings. Ogden sat down with his “Come,
my Trilby, sing to me,” and made a great
show of playing. To his horror no music
came.. He hurriedly arose, prepared to gag,
and immediately the invisible piano burst
into “Ben Bolt.” The actor rushed to his
seat again and stroked the keys, but im-
mediately the music stopped. The operation
was repeated and the audience roared. So
did D’Orsay Ogden—till the stage manager,
tearing the effect on the public mind of a
real murder, rang down the curtain.
“T. 0.1.”: The first Australian actress to
face the footlights in London was Miss Eliza
Winstanley, married to a Mr. 11. O’Flaherty,
who was in the orchestra at the old Vic.
Theatre in Pitt-stret. With a letter of in-
troduction to Charley Kean she went to
London about 18,>0. Kean gave her a show
as Meg. in “Guy Mannering.” She was so
successful that her engagement with Kean
lasted six years.
”S. Snell” : A celebrated Australian actor
had taken the theatre at Albury for the
show week, and had done particularly well
with “The Red Rover” on the first night.
On the following day he was a guest of the
committee of the
Alb u r y Agricul-
tural and Pastoral
Society, and was
shown round under
the wing of the
secretary. At one
stage, when the
couple were cross-
ing the ground, a
cheer burst from
the assemblage. The
actor paused, sniff-
ing the wind like a
war-horse, placed
one hand on his
breast, swept off his
hat with the other,
and executed an
elaborate bow.
Then the trium-
phal march was
resumed. A few
yards further on
the’ twain encoun-
tered another storm
of public approval,
and again the actor
brought off his bow.
This time the un-
easy secretary ven-
tured to explain.
“They are cheer-
ing the champion
ram,” he said.
“What’s that?” de-
manded the pro.
sternly. “It’s the
champion ram they
“Going Up," at
Sydney Majesty's.
Jules Gaillard (the
aviator ), William
Greene.
are cheering,” the secretary said. “Sir,”
retorted the great actor, “I prefer to think
they are cheering a great artist.”
“I’etramos”: The “Ginger Mick” movie is
now practically completed, and Mick, true
to book, perishes nobly on the battlefield. I
want someone to second a motion for his re-
surrection. Long experience has put me wise
to the fact that graveyard don’t make
dividends, and both manager and patrons
will smile in the end if Micko makes a last-
moment recovery and spends the last few
feet with his tart in a welcome-home up at
the Bloke’s.
“Double Oh” : Realism not merely reigns,
it pours, at Sydney Opera House. On Oct.
22, in “When London Sleeps,” the heroine
(Leslie Adrien) caught fire and had to be
extinguished. On Oct. 25. in “The Death
or Glory Boys,” Rutland Beckett (the vil-
lain) fell on to a broken glass after drinking
poison and had to be taken to Sydney Hospi-
tal. On Oct. 28 the hero (Roland Con-
way) shot at the villain, and the wad from
his rifle wounded a boy standing in the
Wings. He also went to the hospital.
“Bally Who”: Oh, yes. it’s quite true, as
dozens of pars have said, that Marie Le
Varre, of Mclntosh’s “Officer’s Mess/’ is a
daughter of Jo-Jo, the dog-faced man; but
it isn’t the Jo-Jo who showed in Melbourne
at Kreitmeyer’s Waxworks many years ago.
Marie’s pa was born Henry Abdy, at; Beth-
nal Green, and developed such a talent for
animal mimicry that a shrewd show-
man put him into a dog's head and camou-
flaged the rest of him. He barked his way
through unsophisticated Russia to such pur-
pose that a Barnum-Bailey agent booked liim
for the big circus’s American tour. Abdy
busked in Australia many years ago, and
later, as Fritz von Liston, attained a big
vaudeville success in England. He came
back to Australia in 1913 with the Wonder
Show, but the naughtiness of the Huns
forced him to again assume the Cockney
name he was born with. In between vaude-
ville appearances he breeds cattle out beyond
Lidcombe (N.S.W.).
A new theatre is to be built in Dunedin
(M.L.) at a cost of £40,000. It is to stand
in Prinees-street and will be named the
Savoy. The first show that fills it will have
an audience of 2000. The dress-circle is
to be the largest in Australasia.
“Hambone” : At Sutton Yeney, the Austra-
lian base camp in Wiltshire, the Diggers gave
an impromptu flame-concert. It was in
January, 1918, when the camp contained a
solid lot of hard cases. In the village someone
had started a variety show. He advertised a
pretentious bill, but seldom kept faith with
his Digger patrons. At last they got sick
of his bad habits, and decided to close him up.
That night when the soprano was doing her
worst the audience moved up to the stage.
The singer fled shrieking. The footlights
(they were kerosene lamps) went down be-*
neath the stormers’ feet, and in less time
than it would take the boss to issue a ticket,
the old caboose was alight. The ancient
piano was rushed out and a musical Digger
rattled off “Keep the Home Fires Burning.”
the mob roaring the words while the flames
mounted behind them. The fire piquet
turned out. but promptly joined in the
chorus. Sequel; Owner nut in an exorbi-
tant claim, and regimental funds that should
have gone to swell the daily food programme
went into the pockets of Mr. Dudshow.
“Fax”: Two or three weeks ago the cable
recorded a successful appearance of Horace
Stevens at London Promenade Concerts, and
it wouldn’t be surprising to hear that the
stalwart Melbourne dentist had been en-
gaged for oratorio. Stevens, who went to
the war with the A.M.C., and was afterwards
captain in the Dental Corps, is no small
shakes as a basso. His voice is rather lack-
ing in brilliancy, and in vivacity of the Peter
Dawson order, but it’s a fine big voice. As
a lad its owner got the distinction of singing
in “Elijah” with Madame Patey when
she visited Australia. Before he settled down
seriously to dentistry, like his father before
him, young Stevens was an oarsman of some
class—amateur champion sculler, in fact.
“E.T.”: Hugh Buckler and Violet Paget
have both got parts in the new Drury Lane
bellowdrama, “The Great Day.” Buckler’s
character, according to the playbill, is simply
“The Man” —the name of the individual not
being mentioned. Buckler’s missus similarly
figures as “The Duchess,” and the authors,
if they were looking for types, have not gone
far wrong in their picks. Another mum-
meress well known on Australian boards
who has recently attracted considerable at-
tention in London’s West End, is dark-eyed
Dorothy Dix. She was at latest appearing
in the leading part in “The Bird of Para-
dise,” played here by Muriel. Starr. By? the
way, the author of this piece, who is stag-
ing it in England, mentioned casually to an
interviewer during rehearsals that the latest
was the 28th company he had drilled. Evi-
dently the “Bird of Paradise” is an oof-bird.
“Ibsensliaw” : Nothing more effective than
“On Our Selection,” I used to think, had
been seen on a play-bill—a sure draw for
the average Australian. Now comes “’Pos-
sum Paddock,” which strikes me as being
little less than an inspiration. A play of
local interest with that title was bound to
fetch ’em.. I take my hat off to the lady who
invented it. I wish I had thought of it
myself.
“First Old Man”; The Taits’ newest
Amurkan play is entitled “Pals First.”
Jerome Patrick will be one of the pals and
Maurice Dudley the other. This piece, like
“Old Lady 31” and a few dozen others, is
an adaptation of a novel, and is just now
being shown here. as a “picture.” Yankee-
land showmen believe in getting every ounce
out of a best-seller, and the author of
one successful book nowadays makes more
money than Dickens or Thackeray got for
his whole output.
“J.F.H.” (London) : Australian admirers
of the late George Rignold may be surprised
to hear that he once played Oliver Crom-
well. The fact has been recalled by W. L.
Courtney, literary editor of London Daily
Telegraph and a playwright in his leisure
moments. He mentions it at the outset of
a review of a new Cromwell drama by John
Drinkwater. George Rignold’s Cromwell
was a counterblast to one on “Charles the
First.” a play by W. G. Wills, produced at
London Lyceum with pronounced success.
Henry Irving, being in the title-rSle. The
character of Cromwell in this piece was
drawn on very hostile and severe lines. He
was depicted as “a mouthing patriot with
an itching palm,” and various other uncom-
plimentary remarks were made about him
This treatment aroused considerable contro-
versy, and Henry Labouchere turned it to
account by producing at his Queen’s Theatre
a play with Cromwell as the central figure
conceived on heroic and sympathetic line«
This was the role played by George Rignold
Labouchere’s leading man at the Queen’s
TOO MUCH OF A LUXURY,
SHE: “Last night I dreamt you bought me
a beautiful diamond ring."
HE: “ Goodness! hi these days! You'll
have to dream something cheaper."
now a big printing establishment where
John Bull and other publications are
turned out. Courtney considers Henry
Irving's “Charles the First” one of his finest
performances. He says it, was on Irving's
suggestion that Wills added to the piece
“that Scene of tender adieus before the mar-
tyrdon which has touched so many hearts.”
Chanco ’: Re Elsa Stralia’s statement
that a youthful aspirant who goes “abroad"
for musical fame needs £5OOO a s ammuni-
tion. Many who know will agree that such
a sum would in most cases be a dead weight
on the student. There are a couple of in-
stances even in our Australian musical his-
tory where money has helped the possessors
to the heights; but there are many more who
would have gone further if they had been
forced to work hard. All art history, especi-
ally that of music, seems to teach that
struggle and hardship are necessary to de-
velop that individuality which, after all, is
the great factor in determining whether a
man is a great artist or a mere craftsman —
sometimes workman. An old-time Melbourne
critic used to swear that after a single item
he could detect even among students the
hand-fed from the self-dependent.
“Harrison O.”: The controversy as to
Whether Thomas Kyd wrote a dramatic ver-
sion of “Hamlet” before Shakspeare hinges
on the value of authorities. Malone sup-
ports the Kyd theory, and the man who aided
so greatly in the detection of the Rowley
forgeries of Chatterton and the Ireland for-
geries of Shakspeare was not the person to
accept the theory without carefully examin-
ing the evidence. Malone’s writings on
Shakspeare were founded on original re-
search, whereas Charles Knight (“O.K.’s"
only “authority”) was never guilty of
original work in any direction. In his day
he occupied a position in England approx-
imating to that held in Australia by the late
King Cole, of the Book Arcade. Ilis
“Penny Magazine,” “Penny Encyclopaedia"
and '‘Pictorial Shakspeare” were for the un-
sophisticated mill-on rather than the critical
few.
A Repertory Theatre has been started at
Cologne, of all unlikely places. The actors
ar ® in B*e -British Army of Occupation,
and the women belong to the Church Army
-League. Shaw and Wilde have mostly been
drawn upon, but “Damaged Goods” and the
duite new “Abraham Lincoln” are promised,
ihe co. has been invited to go on tour to
Antwerp The men in it are supposed to do
W'W ordinary military work as well; but
G.H.Q. can nod.
Oscar Asche says the show he put on re-
cently at the Alhambra (London) for Oswald
Stoll cost £BO.OOO. Asche’s own piece, the
record-breaking “Chu Chin Chow,” looks
very expensive from the -front, yet it cost
°j V ,But that was three years ago,
and there wasn’t so much profiteering then.
THE LICENSED CHORUS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
When Kennor’s Operatic Co.
Appeared at Lonelylost,
The burghers did not rush the show ;
The season proved a frost.
For lodgings at the Lips and Laps
A goodly bill was owing;
McKee, the landlord, sei/.ed their traps,
In case they should one night, perhaps,
Ctonceive a scheme for going.
McKee for high-class singing felt
A most profound regard,
But to their pleadings failed to melt.
lie wished not to be hard,
To Kennor he explained, but, still,
His missus had demanded
Tiiat he should make them pay the bill.
“The company, in that case, will,”
Boomed Kennor, “be disbanded!”
This cut the landlord to the heart.
It seemed that such a thing
Must prove a fatal blow to Art!
In vain he sought to bring
Ills wife round to this point of view.
“Will you do one thing for us?”
Asked Kennor of McKee, “since you
Possess a basso, rich and true,
Pray join our splendid chorus!”
And thus it was that James McKee.
Whose voice had oft won praise,
From pub and spouse' was lured to flee,
With all that he could raise
In cash at such short notice, and
Some wetgoods from the cellar,
And join Hugh Kennor’s strolling band,
His love for music deftly fanned
By Kennor’s sister, Bella.
From then on Kennor always sought,
When out on tour, for pubs
AYhose licensees had once been taught
To sing. In this way, Stubbs,
Of Yam, who owned “a voice diiine" —
So Hugh, in tone emphatic
Alleged—left wife and children nine,
Fired by enthusiasm fine,
For triumphs operatic.
Stubbs owned a foggy organ, so
Did little Charlie Meeks,
Of Burrumbrook, with whom the co.
Had lodged (on tick) for weeks.
“This country seems to breed a horde
Of baritones!” groaned Kennor.
To his advance man, Egbert Forde.
He sent a wire: “Arrange for board
Where landlord is a tenor!”
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.


/jiutn'tltl'*
sSS
wrfmT/TTTs
f#
THE LIGHT SIX
the big six
it
it
**3
jSea u tiful in design
thoroughly modern
Mechanically right
STUDEBAKER
Special Features.
The famous Silent L-Head Engine;
the newly-designed Gear Box,
swung on a Sub-Chassis amidships;
the Double Thermoid Coupling
Forward; the Hotchkiss Drive; the
Silent Spiral Bevel Differential;
Scientific Weight Distribution and
Spring Suspension; Magneto
Ignition; Leather-trimmed Khaki
Hoods; Goodyear Tyres through-
out, and Complete Equipment.
*8
i*
•»a
'Jan
THE LIGHT FOUR
Shrewd, Careful Men
Buy Studebakers
WHEN you see a motorist who owns
a new Series 19 Studebaker Car
you can be assured that he is a
cautious buyer. Almost certainly he has
been satisfied on every point of construc-
tion ; that, not content with the obvious
merits of the Studebaker, he has delved to
find the hidden excellence—the individual
characteristics that have established the car
so firmly in the minds of critical and
experienced men. This is a splendid lead
to follow—because it is the safe lead.
in these New Studebakers the unrivalled
beauty of the coachwork, the mechanical
excellence and remarkable road capabilities,
together with the completeness of the
appointments, places them among the finest
automobiles of the year.
dhe wide seats and deep cushions,
upholstered in genuine hand-buffed French
plaited leather; the wide-opening doors and
ample leg-room, front and rear, lend a new
meaning to travel-comfort in these splendid
modern cars.
The mechanical advantages of Studebaker Series 19
Cars include such desirable features as a perfected inter-
mediate transmission and flexible coupling, giving wonderful
balance and eliminating all driving shocks. The result is
smoother operation, with an almost total absence of
vibration.
You must see them—ride in them—to know why
Studebakers are so much discussed by experts and so
popular throughout Motordom.
THE STUDEBAKER CORPORATION OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
Head Office for Australia: 177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. South Australian Branch: 1 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Turner Bros., 398 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Armstrong C. & M. Agency, Hay Street, Perth.
C. C. & M. A. Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
New Zealand: Adams Limited;
Christchurch,
Palmerston North,
Timaru,
Wanganui.
Bill


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern. Sydney.
WHAT MAKES THE WHEELS GO ROUNJJ?
f
LEWIS&VvhITT'y MAKERS
THE TOUCH TEELS
Glide smoothly, never grate.
Artists, Draughtsmen, Engineers,
Architects, Drawing Students, Busi-
ness Men —these are just a few of the
classes who buy VENUS Pencils regu-
larly.
are not a luxury, they are a
necessity for the best work.
%
V
Made in 17 degrees, 6B to
9H, and 3 styles of Copying.
OF ALL STATIONERS AND ARTISTS’-
MATERIAL DEALERS THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ' LAND.
SYDNEY
SPORTING
NOTIONS
DON'T TINKER
LET
MICK SIMMONS
DO THE JOB
PROPERLY
The record crowd at Flemington on Derby
Day had little to complain of until rain came
drizzling down. A warm second favorite, Clan
Fingon, beat the somewhat warmer favorite Tanga-
looma for the Maiden Plate, and the success was not
purely Victorian, seeing that Ken Bracken was up.
Clan Fingon is a promising t.hree-year-old son of
Wallace from the blue-blooded Clarissa, likely to
become very useful hereafter. In the Maribyrnong
Plate, which came next on the bill, another second
favorite scored. Trey, in J. Scobie’s stable, was the
filly that had been unlucky not to beat stable-com-
panion Etive at Flemington a month earlier, and the
local punting talent had been waiting for the girl-
een’s reappearance. Visitors, as a rule, continued to
swear that Delight, couldn’t be beaten, so the
penalised Maoriland filly started at 5 to 2, as
against 4 to 1 Trey. But the fact that all the nags
from Maoriland were still suffering from change of
climate was confirmed again. Delight never looked
like winning, whereas the daughter of Welkin took
the lead a tong way from home and eventually beat
Tressady Queen comfortably, with Midilli, another
of Scobie’s lot. close behind. The winner is a
rather wild-looking chestnut filly. A pair of long
white stockings distinguish her hind legs, and she
has one of the whitest faces ever seen outside a
circus.
Rain was falling softly all the time between the
Maribyrnong Plate and Derby, and none of the
competitors were asked to do much of a preliminary
canter. Richmond Main merely stretched his legs,
whilst Artilleryman just walked up the course and
waited for the barrier to be lowered. Apparently
they were afraid the favorite would try to bolt if
he were given a breather. The field got away
promptly to time, but nothing rushed to the front.
Richmond Main headed the rather slow procession
past the stand and retained his position until
Gambler’s Gold came along to bustle things. Sur-
veyor forged ahead of the tractable son of Prince
Foote, whilst Artilleryman was still fighting for his
head in the rear. The favorite was being ridden
to orders, no doubt, but the orders turned out to
be injudicious, for, in the words of the jockey after
the race, “the pace in the beginning was too slow'
for my mount, who pulled hard all the time and beat
himself.” Presently, when the pace was good, Artil-
lervman was rushed to the front with a great spurt,
and in the front he staved until Surveyor tackled
him at the distance. Meanwhile Richmond Main,
who had had a bad experience of pace-making in
the Caulfield Cup, was being nursed for a final effort.
Artilleryman struggled gamely with Surveyor and
beat him, but Richmond Main came along resolutely
and beat Artilleryman by a good half-length as
they passed the post, after which there was nothing
to be said except that in a differently-ridden race the
result might have been different. Excuses for beaten
horses are false, as often as not; nevertheless, in this
case it can fairly be said that at the back of the
course Artilleryman v r as required to make a great
effort at the verv time when, had he not been so
far behind the leaders, he might have been slightly
eased in order to give him his second wind..
By an odd coincidence the new Cantala Stakes,
introduced into the bill at the instance of Sep
Miller, fell to Chal, which formerly carried the
colors of the old sport who added a gold cup to the
rich stake. Chal must have been chucked into the
mile race, considering that his owmers let him carry
7st. lib. rather than be handled by a boy who could
ride the handicap weight of 6st. 81b. Of the 19
other starters nothing had a hope against the light-
weighted runaway, save Lucknow'. Chal was in the
lead when Lucknow was tangled up with the tail-
end of the field. The big horse made a brilliant
run, as he had done under similar conditions in tne
Toorak Handicap at Caulfield, but the long effort
left him unable to put in a final sprint, and Chal
beat him by more than a length. Then did Ikey
Mo rejoice outwardly as well as inwardly, for
earlier in the day Isaac had opened double books on
the Maribyrnong and Cantala, and things were look-
ing not too good for him when this rough outsider
lobbed home. He rejoiced some more w r heu Sea-
bound won the Hotham Handicap in great time,
beating Chrome, Kenilford, lan Or and Ard-na-ree,
not to mention three or four other Cup horses.
Chrome finished fourth. His defeat hardly proved
that he was staling off, though it was discouraging
to backers of the Bradfield trio, coming after the
failure of Night Watch in the Melbourne Stakes.
Yet the defeat of Night Watch had not been conclu-
sive, although he certainly appeared a trifle lighter
than on Caulfield Cup day. The Stakes was practi-
cally reduced to a sprint, so it was not surprising
that fliers like Cetigne and Wolaroi should down
little Night Watch at w.f.a. All the same, the
favorite for the Melbourne Cup might have done
better than whip the field in all the way round the
o.al. The writer, for one, didn’t fancy Night Watch
for the Cup after seeing him in the birdcage and
watching him perform on Derby Day.
* * * *
“0.K.” Either the V.R.C. was playing
larks with the public on Saturday, or the Railway
management was playing larks with the V.R.C. Pro-
bably the latter. According to “Railway Arrange-
ments” printed on the racefcooks, trains were to
return from the racecourse “immediately after the
Derby has been run.” Another paragraph stated
that on each day of the meeting a train would leave
the course at 3.45 p.m. and 4 p.m., in time to catch
certain specified expresses. But when people began
to leave, in the rain, immediately after the Derby-
say at 2.45 p.m.—they were warned that no train
would move out before 4 o’clock. The station-master
couldn’t even say whether the empty train then
standing at the platform would take passengers
away at 4 p.in., or be shunted. Word came, however,
that this would be a safe thing for damp and wait-
ing passengers to shelter in until the authorities in
Melbourne permitted it to depart. So the public
came trickling into it—the sick public who had
been promised “immediate” return after the Derby
—with the idea of waiting until 4 p.m., as per
announcement on the platform. And then, to show
its impossibility of ever knowing what was going to
happen with race trains, the Department allowed
this long-delayed train to get away at 3.45 p.m.
* * * *
Frank Bnllock, rider of Lucknow. toV]
George Wirth last week that he would be coming
round to the Circus on Cup night to collect the
presentation whip, with gold on the handle, that
has been the brothers’
gift Ko the winning
jockey ever since long
ago. Bullock got it
when Blue Spec won,
by the way. On that
occasion the Wirths
had a baby foal, born
on Cup morning, to
be publicly christened
by the boy who should
come for the whip.
The foal was so small
that Bullock didn’t
think it belonged to
the gee-gee tribe.
When the animal was
led into the Circus
ring the jockey
thought it was a dog.
Being an uncommonly
blue-looking infant they
decided to call it after
the Cup winner, so
Bullock sprinkled some
champagne on the
nipper’s head and
christened it Blue
Speck.
LES MAC-
DONALD,
owner of Night
Watch.
Artilleryman justified this page’s faith
and won the Cup. His Derby race, no doubt did
him all the good in the world, and he romped
home by six lengths. There was a pile of money
for him at the finish. Richmond Main, John
Brown’s Derby winner, struggled into second posi-
tion from the outsider Two Blues.
* * * *
While they were running the Maribyrnong
Plate at Flemington the winner of that race three
years ago, Pah King, was failing in a £75 event on
a Sydney suburban course. Maribrynong Plate win-
ners have often performed feebly in after life. The
one conspicuous exception of recent years was
Traquette. Still, among the fillies that have won are
some which did exceptionally well in the harem
later on —Necklet, Etra-Weenie, Lady Mostyn, Bee
Bee, Maltine and Desert Gold, for example.
A couple of nags belonging to Richmond,
M.L.’s biggest punter, had a better day on Saturday
at Warwick Farm than their proprietor had at Flem-
ington. Lingerie and Impediment respectively took
the Pace Welter and the Farm Handicap, each at a
short price. Whereupon, with visions of a treble, a
heap went on to Molyneaux. trained in the same
stable. It stayed in the bags. Molyneaux was
brought over last year by Richard Mason and sold.
He was well backed at Randwick last month, and just
got touched off on the post. On Saturday there
were two in front of him.
* * * *
At the Q.T.C. Spring Meeting the Derby
was won by Boy Syce, who beat Richmond Main’s
time in the V.R.C. event by isec. All Aboard, win-
ner of the Brisbane Handicap, has a full sister in
W Richmond’s Dribble, annexer of the Wainui Han-
dicap at the recent Wellington meeting.
At the end of the third round of Sydney
grade cricket Wests are on top, a point ahead of
Petersham; Glebe is dead last with but one com-
petition point. Glebe can play football better.
Gordon essayed the impossible when, up against
an old o-eneraf like Noble, it tried for 342 runs in
about 2i hours. It actually got 248 for five in the
time (far. Tozer 74, and Johnston 6S). Norths
beat Balmain, on the first innings, by 167 runs.
4.fter “declaring” at 324 for seven (Austin Punch 60,
and Long 72) they could only down five Balmain
wickets before stumps were drawn. Waverley .fell
to Uni. on the first innings by 73 runs. Uni. (first
innings 148) at their second attempt collected but
139 (Bovce 51), leaving Waverley (first innings 75)
213 to get to win. At the end of things six of
their wickets were down for 168. Scott, of Middle
Harbor (six wickets for 62), terrorised Wests, who
had lost five for 168 the previous Saturday. The
last five strikers added only 32. M.H. (first innings
120) made 19 more on their second effort.
Robinson, who was again on the spot, taking
three wickets for 34. Wests, with 60 to
get for an outright win, and only 45 minutes left,
went like mad and got there on the post. Sydney
heat Glebe bv seven wickets. Glebe (91 in their
first knock) -notched 172 at the second effort —Kel-
leway 30. Fusedale (whose birthday it was)
smacked up a sparkling SO (not out) for Sydney.
C. Cumberland, who could only pile up 150 at their
first go against Petersham, secured 320 next time.
Cram ev (83) and Waddy (61) gave finished exposi-
tions. 'The only bowler to trouble the side was A.
Thatcher (four for 47). Petersham won on the first
innings by 126.
* * * #
Two or three batsmen asserted themselves
in Melbourne District cricket on Saturday. Sewart,
99 not out for Carlton, helped his side to a win
of 102 runs with six wickets to spare against
P’ran. Saints, who declared at six for 300, hoped
to attend South’s funeral, but Sykes walloped up
101 n.o. and Gray 75. so the match was drawn,
South’s tally standing at five for 254. Melbourne
defeated East by 120, though on a second try the
latter finished with five for 213, patriarchal Pete
McAlister amassing 92 n.o. In this encounter
East’s promising bowler Rayson took four for 50,
and did the “hat trick.” North’s deficit of 20 runs
against Uni. was mainly due to the bombardment of
Freemantle, who had six North victims for 55 runs.
Essendon’s margin of 17 over ’Wood was largely due
to the lively batting of Allan (63), who knocked 29
off two overs from inter-Stater Ryder, and added
45 while his partner was making one. N’eote v.
Richmond was the least spectacular argument of
the day. ’Cote creeping home by 42 runs.
# * * *
Eight qualified for the final rounds of
N. S. Wales amateur golf championship this year.
Eric Apperly (holder) was drawn against T. Howard,
and few foresaw the defeat of the champion. In a.
great game, however, Howard cannoned off Apperlv’s
ball at the last hole and won by two up. In the
semi-final he defeated C. H. Reading (two up and
one to plav) ; and in the final on Saturday he
downed 11. W. McLelland at the last hole —two up.
Howard played solid though unsensational golt
throughout. McLelland (a country player) uses his
sticks well, but appears to be temperamental.
* * * *
Vic. professional golf tournament at
Riversdale last week was mostly Kirkwood. In the
big handicap (plus 12), J.H. won with 153 from his
brother W. (minus 8). Four players with the best
gross scores afterwards strove for the knock-out
match, and in the final veteran Soutar (N.S.W.) won
from Kirkwood, one up. The finalists were pupil and
instructor.
N. S. Wales Soccer season ended at New-
castle on Saturday, when the hefty miners of West
Maitland trampled on Balmain Fernleigh by three to
nil.
* * * *
Llew Edwards beat Harlem Eddie Kelly
at Sydney Stadium on Saturday night in one of the
best contests seen there for years. Felly is a splen-
didly-developed lad in the welter class, and a boxer;
the Welsh wonder fought at 9st. 71b. For the first
10 rounds the Yank made Edwards miss over and
over again; and in the ninth, which he won easily,
he had the Welshman bleeding freely from the
mouth. But even at this stage Edwards was ahead
on points. From the half-way mark onwards it
was all Edwards. In the 16th session the tiring
American left his jaw open for a second. It was
enough. Edwards chipped it from a distance of
three or four inches and the visitor fell in a heap.
Kelly handicaps himself by his odd trick of licking
his glove at intervals. Before matters began to get
serious for him he waited priceless moments bv
dashing his left to his mouth before and after
almost every hit.
* * * •
Schools’ champion Keith Kirkland, swim-
ming from scratch in the 100yds. handicap at the
Suit (Sydney) on Saturday, did the distance in
6lsec. ‘He holds schools’ records over distances
from 50vds. to half a mile ; and last year smashed
“the minute” in open company more than a dozen
times.
* # * *
The six great Public Schools of Vic. put
up, last Frida}', the keenest athletic struggle ever
seen at the Melbourne Cricket Ground. The last
event of the day—the broad jump—was the deciding
factor. Tranter, the Scotch captain, won it. He
did 22ft. 1-Jin., which cracked Winter-Irving's last
year’s record by lOJin. W. B. Taylor (Geelong
Grammar), a youngster under 14, high-jumped 4ft.
9|in. In the under-16 class G. W. Johnson (Scotch)
did sft. 4£in. —another record. Mclntosh (Wesley)
put the 161 b. shot 37ft. 4jin., and Macdougal (Gram-
mar) and Edmunds (Scotch) both beat 35ft. In
the senior sprints Tranter captured the 100yds.
in 10 3-ssec., and the furlong (run in ropes at
the last two meetings) in 25Jsec. In the 120
hurdles R. L. Armond (Scotch) won very easily in
16 2-ssec. from Abernethy (Wesley). In the mile
John Cook (Wesley) led all the way till the last
lap, when Richardson (Grammar) and Bates (Gee-
long Grammar) tackled him. All six then put in
a great run, Cook battling home a winner by
inches. Time only fair —4min. 55jsec. In the
quarter Wildman (Grammar) beat Patten (Wesley)
in 55 2-ssec. J. W. Biteon (Wesley) won the high
jump open with sft. 6jin. In the under-16 events
the brilliant Woinarski won the 100yds. in
11 3-10 sec., the 220yds. in 25sec. and the quarter
in 57 2-ssec. He had a yard up his sleeve in every
distance. In the under-15 Hammond (Scotch) made
hacks of his field in the 100 and 300 yards. In the
lOOvds. under-14 Xavier scored its only win, with
Jones, in 11 9-10 sec. The spectacular flag race
went to Xavier after a tussle with YVeslev. Total
points: Scotch, 82J; Wesley, 81; Grammar, 78.
These three well-coached scneols are me Gray one?
that ever get a look in. The, Scotchmen have won
the challenge cup six rimes; Wesley and Gramma i
four times each.
* *• * *
Gerald Halpin won the N. S. Wales mile
amateur cycling championship at Sydney Eight-hour
Carnival last week, beating W. C. Walker in 2min.
31see. These two bikists have picked all the plums
this year. In the half-mile Halpin won in lmin.
17 4-ssec., with Walker second ; and Walker won the
10 miles in 25min. 24sec., with Halpin on his wheel.
Over the shorter distances Halpin is the speediest
cyclist the Union has known for years. At the same
meeting A. Mcßeath took the five-mile professional
scratch race in llmin. 2 4-ssec.
East Torrens, cricket premiers of Adel-
aide, have had the curious luck to win the first
two games of the new season by three runs against
Adelaide and one run against Sturt. Middleton,
coming back into the team after long absence, bat-
ted brilliantly. So did Gehrs for North Adelaide.
S. Aus. seems to have any quantity of batting, lots
of wicket-keepers, and but one first-class bowler—
Whitty.
* * * *
“Yarra Ben”: Newspaper tipsters did
well over the Caulfield Cup—if you remember only
what they said last. But what about those dashing
vaticinators who advise their followers the moment
the weights are announced? The Arqus tipster took
12 horses against the field. Not one of the dozen
was even placed ! The oracle on the Age did fetter.
Out of his selected 12 he scored a second—Night
Watch. No wonder early bettors burn their fingers!
* * * *
“0.K.” : Though odds of 3 to 1 were laid
on Barry the morning- of his defeat, the cables tor a
week previously had not given him, from my point
of view, a hope of keeping the sculling championship.
The “books” were accepting G to 4 about his chance,
which, considering the inevitable local prejudice
in the Englishman’s favor, meant that the riverside
touts had predicted a close race. Then Barry was
said to be rowing nearly as well as ever, and finally
the old champion was reported as grousing about
the decay of public enthusiasm for the sport, and
the difficulty he had in finding money to back him-
self with. Barry was already a goner, on paper, a
week before the event. Ten years older and two
stone lighter than Felton, he lacked also the win-
ning spirit.
* * * *
Lawson’s Cabinet has again turned down
the request of the Vie. Anzac House (Diggers’ Club)
Memorial Committee for permission to hold three
race-meetings on the Melbourne Trotting Club's
courses. The policy of the Government, Lawson
declared, was to discourage rather than encourage
races. As the Government could not make fish of
one and flesh of the other it also blew out an
application for a race-day on one of Wren’s courses
for the benefit of Frank Hyett’s widow and children.
* •* * •
“Mulga”: Maryborough (Q.) put up an-
other record recently, when some employees at H. A.
Heed’s bacon factory on the Mary fished out a
monster groper. It weighed about 4001 b., and
measured 7ft. from nose to tip of tail. Sis men
were half an hour landing it. They sold it to a
local fishmonger for £5.
* * * »
An Adelaide sportsman with a turn for
statistics lias been protesting against the constant
interruptions in the Australian code of football. The
players have got so used to the whistle that it
passes as a matter of course, but the cold figures
are startling-. In a recent important match on the
Adelaide Oval, 41 free kicks were given to one side,
and 42 to the other. The bail went out of bounds
84 times. Scoring happened to be unusually light,
only 11 goals 5 behinds all told. Even so, this adds
up to 183 stoppages in the play in 100 minutes!
It is not stated how many of the .free kicks were
earned by catches, and how many were penalties
for breach of a rule. Some umpires, in their
desire to check all rough play, penalise for almost
anything. Others, who do not, are apt to get
prompt blame for allowing roughness. Excepting
at baseball, there is no official who has a harder
time of it than the Australian-code umpire.
# * * *
If the coining of the totalisator to Vic-
toria is much longer delayed the V.R.C. and
V.A.T.O. ought to impose extra Cup-meeting fees
on the books who get outside berths in the
betting paddock. When the crowd is thickest at
Caulfield or Flemington hundreds of punters never
venture into the crush where leather-lunged brethren
are bawling the odds. They go no further than the
outside line, and the outside liners seem to have
formed a low-price league for the exploitation of
the public. The odds offered by these most acces-
sible merchants are from about one point to 10
points less than the average price obtainable in
the midst of the hurly-burly. Habitual punters,
being wise to the state of affairs, never dream of
wasting time there. They may get more or less
torn to pieces, but they avoid being profiteered, at
any rate.
* * * *
“0.K.” : The matter of the management of
Melbourne Amateur Regatta Assoc, seems to cry
aloud for criticism. The public cheerfully forked
out some £4OOO for the privilege of lining the
Yarra banks this Henley Day; and now it is said
that the expenses are expected to exceed £3OOO,
though no balance-sheet will be forthcoming before
May next year. Three thousand —for what? The pay-
ing public gets no conveniences whatever. It is
merely allowed to stand or w r alk along a certain
stretch of river-side.
# * * *
“Bright”: “Jim Caretv” (B. 30/10/T9)
asks why it is that two-up experts prefer English-
made pennies to Australian. They say that the
Australian penny is not evenly balanced, by reason of
the fact that it has a head on one side and only
a few words on the other. The head, being the
heavier, makes it throw a majority of tails. The
English coin has a figure on both sides, and this
they claim makes it spin more evenly. The Light
Horseman who headed ’em 17 times in succession
was an amateur compared with a Digger who at
Leventee, in Belgium, did it 24 times and broke
the school.
THE ANNUAL SWEARING-OFF.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“Never agaiu!” Where thickest is the crowd
Of Cup-day crushers it is voiced aloud;
The votaries of pleasure, vexed and hot,
Who sought for winners, but have found them not,
Amidst the stream that bears them off their feet
Their bitter cry of former years repeat.
“Never again 1"
l.ike sardines in a trimlv-soldered box
Their forms are packed. Alas for crumpled frocks
And furbelows whose purpose was to kill!
Themselves are mangled, both on Stand and Hill,
Whilst frowning wearers, fighting hard for space,
Sway back or onward at a tortoise pace.
The Cup is over; they have seen it run,
Or failed to see it, and have heard what won,
And now are striving, somewhat scant of breath,
To live to tell they were not crushed to death.
O Pleasure, in thy name what hours of pain
Do mortals suffer ere they catch the train!
How heartfelt sounds the cry, yet, Oh, how vain!
“Never again!”
Fair Resolution slowly fades from view;
Green on the dead hope’s grave soon grows the new ;
The vision, which was proved a fraud and cheat,
Its false attraction shall next year repeat,
And all shall be as ever in the past—
The same old play, with changes in the cast,
Produced again with wonderful success,
The audience a little more or less.
The Cup’s the play that blooms each Melbourne
Spring,
When all the Hamlets say “The Cup’s the thing.”
In heat or cold, in sunshine or in rain,
Like careless captive on his captor’s chain,
Comes weakling Never, dragged by strong Again.
vicToniA.
O. K.


IF I WERE YOU I’D
LEARN TO BOX!
I’d start at once to equip myself with
a knowledge which would serve me
throughout life.
Knowing how to defend yourself is no
load to carry, but it makes up for no
end of lack of weight in a personal
encounter.
Supposing you got into a “rough up’’
(and there’s no knowing when you
will), think how handy it would be
to you—what increased confidence it
would instil—how you could keep
your opponent off. Think of the sat-
isfaction of “peppering” him at will.
Well, then, this very handy knowledge can be
obtained quickly and easily by my system of teach-
ing and can be learnt at your own home.
I TEACH BOXING
BY POST.
My methods are so thorough and interesting that
you will quickly progress towards efficiency. You
will look forward to each section of lessons, and get
real good sport—sport that you’ll never tire of.
Every man of the world should be able to protect
himself--and by no way can he more surely do so
than by learning- to box. You ought to learn.
Further particulars of my Postal Course are given in my interesting-
booklet, “Scientific Boxing in Your Home.” Write for a copy and
enclose three stamps for postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
“ The All-round Champion Athlete of Australia,”
146 Municipal Buildings, Oxford St. (Cor. Crown St.), Sydney.
mm
mm
_ THE GREAT -v,
AtlAktk^Flßjht
e.
**
. n
, SHELL
T BENZINE
WAS USED
in the Visliers’-Vimy Itombinjj
Aeroplane Mown by Capf.
Aleock t.ml Lieut. A. W.
llroxvn
The Gear Ratios of a
l-TON FORD Worm Drive TRUCK
are: Low, 20 to 1; High, H to 1.
The MOORE 4-SPEED GEAR-BOXES
provide, in addition: Extra lcfw, 40 to 1 , intei-
inediate, 14J to 1. For heavy work and Over-
speed, H to 1, for fast City delivery, etc.
MOORE 4-SPEED GEARS for all
FORD models.
WESTCOTT, HAZELL & CO. LTD.,
311 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
DUNCAN & CO. PTY. LTD.,
MELBOURNE & ADELAIDE.
J A. DIMMITT, PERTH, W.A.
Agents WANTED Queensland.
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOB
MINING. MILLING, etc.
>' INCLUDING
STEAH ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL BE POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO
THE SECRETARY
Box 229 Ci.P.O
MELBOURNE?
THE GENERAL MANAGER,
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
THE SECRETARY,
Box 220 G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
sdf
Jaw Breakers.
Gyratory
Breakers.
Crushing Rolls
Elevators.
Screens.
Conveyors.
Portable and
Stationary.
Crushing
Plants.
OVER 1000 SUPPLIED.
STONE BREAKERS
ALIj SIZES. CAPACITIES, ICWT. TO 100 TONS PER HOUR.
Send for Illustrated Catalog No. 20. MACHINES IN STOCK.
MANUFACTURED BY —
JAQUES BROS. Pty. Ltd.,
Coppin Street, Richmond, MELBOURNE, VIC.
Kruse’s
RUid
Magnesia
for Indigestion.
<y
The Limit of Panama Quality S Panama Value
The “L.S.” Guinea Special is a Genuine Native Leaf. It is
perfectly made. It is Light, Cool and Comfortable—looks and
feels well, and will give seasons of service. It is obtainable in
almost any width of brim and height of crown. As a Panama
investment it is the “Best Ever” at the price.
If you want something of even a higher grade, we have it at
figures from 25/- to 42/-. Call or Write. We Pay Freight.
Lincoln, Stuart & Co. Pty. Ltd.
“Where You’ll Always Find the Hat You Want” Melbourne


0
ore
e
THE interest which men evince nowadays in their clothing ex-
clusiveness, particularly with regard to their headwear and footwear,
is emphasised by the high-grade and best quality apparel stocked
at Farmer’s —“ The Store for Men.” The exceptional values offered
in the following items exemplify Farmer’s ability to provide genuine
economies in high-grade, stylish Men’s Wear.
HATS & BOOTS—RENOWNED VALUES
Stylish Soft Felts, of finest grade, and
are the product of best quality material,
combined with careful workmanship.
Made with cut edges, 2} to 2| ins. brim,
smartly set up or fairly flat. Light, med-
ium, dark grey, fawn . . 21/'- & 27/6
Farmer’s Famous Guinea Boot, in box
calf or tan willow, Balmoral or Derby
style. Made on a smart, comfortable last, '
light welted soles; in two fittings. A
remarkable value in a reliable, hard-
wearing boot. Price 21/-
We Pay Carriage.
FARMER'S
Box 497, G.P.O.
sd
“A la
Mode/'
N°T„ .? n,y , does a Shave Gown or
Tailored Suit reflect the newest in
style according to the fashion de-
crees of the moment, but it is so designed
that it synchronises with the individual-
ity of the wearer. Gown and gowned
blend in one perfect ensemble. The Shave
system of making does away with
fatiguing fittings.
SHAVE
Dressmakers,
Ladies’ Tailors,
Centreway,
MELBOURNE.
[till or»ian
| HIGH-CLASS
[SPECIALTIES
Creams
Pastes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANC LTD.
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne.
sdf
E. DROWN © SON'S? LONDON
AGENCIES • AIX - OVER • THIS • WORLD
VISITORS.—Don’t miss one of the city’s greatest attractions—the “PAVILION,” Syd
ney’s Restaurant de luxe, Circular Quay.
MILLINERY
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warner's
Rust-Proof
Corsets
Derby morning in Melbourne always' lias
an atmosphere of hopeful lunacy. No punter
has yet lost anything and everyone is joyous
and eager to get out to Flemington. This
year the morning was bright, and the day
did not show its storm-hand till about two
o’clock. Thus lured the Derby dressers went
in their flimsies, and before the day was
over they huddled like wet sheep on the
grandstands. The men reported at intervals
that the betting ring was full of other idiots
struggling to lose money to the books. A
large vice-regal party crowded the official
pen and were seen at intervals dodging the
crowd and the rain. The G.-G. had with
him the cocked hats of N. S. Wales, South
Aus. and Tasmania. Irvine, C.J., was one
of the grey top-hatted group. Lady Helen,
Lady Davidson and Miss Eadith Walker
were covered up under rainproof cloaks and
were looked after by a worried squad of
aides.
The Norman Bayles pair dared a tea-
party under the dripping trees. The Fuller
lady and daughter Gwen, from Sydney, were
glimpsed in the fashion kaleidoscope. Mrs.
Howard King and daughter Mrs. Fielder
were out. Colonel Sands and his wife were
other Sydney visitors. The Arthur Bulli-
vants struggled through the crush—Mrs.
Arthur in deep black. Mrs. Rupert Atkin-
son wore a big race cape over a dainty
fawn georgette gown. Mrs. Russell Clarke
looked cosy in a fur-trimmed Paisley dolman.
The rich widow of Willie Sharp was with
daughter Cecily. General Grant was on
parade. Mrs. Pat Osborne appeared muf-
fled in furs. Mrs. Alex. Gillespie wore fawn
trappings and feather trimmings. Mrs.
Thompson from the Murray was in all black.
Collins-street is sprinkled with inter-State
i acegoers. Theo Marks, the never-say-die
punter, is here; also Coal-baron John
Brown, Sydney’s Mayor Richards and the
l at Osbornes; pretty Pauline Curran, from
Hobart; and the Francis Blighs, of Sydney,
with two jolly daughters. Genera] Archie
Douglas, from Simla, has his spouse (Kath-
leen litzGerald) at the junket. The Tas-
manian Lyons pair are just off the Loon-
gana, and Chief Justice Adrian Knox is
sighted now and then. The Ken McWhaes
are just back from Japan in time. Nona
and Daisy Hay from Sydney look in at the
teashops. and Major Harold Hall and his
witelet (who was Dollie Clegg) tell friends
about their trip home in the Niagara. The
Western District people have left the sheep
to fend for themselves. Flemington’s starter,
Runert Greene, has brother-in-law Colonel
de Lancy Forth to show round. And George
Blackwood, after guarding Buckingham
1 a lace with a silver-mounted truncheon, is
at his old haunts again.
The Bananaland people flocked south in
such numbers that the coastal boats had to
leave scores behind at small ports for lack
of accommodation. As it was. one of the
last steamers to arrive used most of the
deck space for shakedowns. Dr. Malcolm
and his wife motored from Blackall right
through to Melbourne to escape packed boats
and trains.
Mrs. Mackenzie, whose Colonel is second
m command under General Johnston at
Rabaul. is in Melbourne for the races. She
is staying with her parents, Mr. and Mrs.
I telbridge.
With crowds of strange thirsts in town.
Melbourne is short of champagne, Dealers
could sell good vintages at dizzy prices; but
the precious stuff lias all been bought up.
Bananaland, particularly, is regardless of
expense when it comes to Melbourne for the
Cup, and this year Bananaland lias arrived
in droves.
Victor Hood, private sec. to Lieut.-Gover-
nor Irvine, is' up and about again after his
long illness, but lie has not resumed duty
yet. “Tup” Williams, associate to the C.J.,
is still on the sick-list, and A. B. O’Connor,
associate to Cussen. J„ is doing double duty.
The Duchess of Sutherland, who remarried
last week (she was divorced from her second
husband, General Fitzgerald, during the
war), is an aunt by marriage of the Sydney
girl who was Sheila Chisholm. The Earl of
Rosslyn, the Duchess’s brother, is Lord
I.oughborough’s father. Lord Rosslyn, like his
astonishingly beautiful sister, has faced the
altar on three occasions. Marrying amounts
to a habit with the St. Clair-Erskine family.
Percy Fitzgerald, the Duchess’s second hus-
band, is a son of old Nick Fitzgerald, of Mel-
bourne. He is one of the best polo-players in
England (he plays No. 2 for The Scouts,
which won the Roehampton Cup last
August), and he had a remarkably successful
career as a cavalryman in the South African
War and in France. He was a major in
the 11th Hussars in 1914.
i , the distinguished people at the
1 hibhn Horse Show (the most lavish in all
i espects, by the way, that Erin has ever
known) was Rrig.-General Claude Rome.
He is an Australian who was educated at
Harrow, and then went into the 11th Hus-
sars. He was a captain when he arrived here
on the Dudleys’ staff, and got his promotion
in 1 ranee. His friend and fellow-aide, Cap-
tain llore-Ruthven, V.C., is also a general
now. He left the Rifle Brigade after the
Mons retreat and took charge of the Welsh
Guards.
After this month, when Watch Hill and
Gnarwyn both go on the market, two ancient
tribes of squatters will be known no more
JP, th , e ificli Colac district. The long-estab-
lished Watch Hill ranch belongs to Colin
Robertson, and Gnarwyn is in the estate of
the late L. M. Calvert. Nowadavs Colac
spends most of its time producing milk and
larm-mutton, and the Robertson and Cal-
vert properties will soon form another bunch
of cogs in that highly-productive rural
machine.
Mrs. Rupert Atkinson gave a Derby night
ball at Scar boro, Toorak, and there were
so many men in reserve that the girls were
happy. The revel occupied the whole of
the ground floor (which lias big Japanese
house doors round an octagon) and flowed
on to_ the wide verandahs, canvased in for
the night. In the garden electrics glowed
m the rosebushes, while big blue shades
made the supper-room cool. Rupert Atkin-
son couldn’t be present, as he is in America.
His grass-widow hostessed in a dress of pale
rose and gold with blue shoes. Maudie
Gregory, in black and white, helped.
Ethel Webb and Miss Lorimer had a great
party on Henley night. It happened on the
roof of the lofty Auditorium Buildings—
practically the highest plane in Melbourne.
The two roofs were thronged with people,
and a cabaret supper was served. Old-lady
guests looked down on the river lights and
fireworks from chairs placed in the windows
of the gymnasium near the roof. The
Lyceum Club members were invited in a
body from their rooms down below.
Miss Mary Chomley, who sports an
0.8. E., awarded for services rendered to
Australian prisoners of war, is back in her
native land; she and
Mrs. M. P. Simm
and Miss Pug h e
Jones form the Aus-
tralian wing of the
British delegation
which is visiting all
the Dominions to
look into the pros-
pects of the English
working women who
may emigrate to the
younger lands. She
is of a well-known
Victorian clan; her
fat h e r was the
Judge. Some little
time before the war
she and her sisters
migrated to London,
where they joined
forces in a maisonette in Chelsea. Chelsea
was fascinating with its young men with
long beards and its older men with flowing-
ties, and its cropped girls walking about in
attire that suggested the model's throne.
Then came the war, and the Chelsea studios
emptied their younger tenants into the train-
ing camps, while the older men with the
flowing ties suddenly seemed very old and
weary. After that Miss Chomley did all sorts
of work, till finally she got at her big job of
looking after our own prisoners of war.
What she did for them only she and her
first lieutenant, Mrs. Mordaunt Reid, might
tell. The portrait is Ashby's, of Sydney.
The Harry Emmertons have postponed
their dance, originally scheduled for Novem-
ber 9. They are too anxious about daughter
Mrs. Norman Brookes. Mrs. Brookes is just
through a severe operation in Maoriland.
The University Club Ball Committee
found that a Gov’ment House hop was to
happen on November 3, so the 'Varsity
dance has been shoved on to November 14,
when the race frivols will have ended.
This is how the Speck makes them.
Elsie Nairn, daughter of one of the rail-
way chiefs, never saw the inside of an aero-
plane till the other day. when Lieut. Long
unpacked a two-seater B.P. to thrill Hobart
and did so. He went up solo and threw the
big blue ’bus about in spins, rolls, split-
tails, tail-slides and slips until Slowbart’s
hair stood stiff. When he invited passengers
to come up the Nairn gild stepped in and
invited him to do all his sky tricks. She
came through a (1000-foot spin and some
sickenirigly close things without losing a
hairpin. Then she wanted Long to take
her up again and let her have a smack at
flying it, but her pilot had had enough. She
is going to learn, to fly.
Commander Wilkinson is about town these
race times. He was in command of the Una,
which was once the German Ivomet, but is
on the Tingira training ship now.
The Denison Millers, of the Common-
wealth Bank, are back in Melbourne. Last
week Mrs. J. S. Scott spread tea, ices and
flowers at the Oriental to welcome the lady.
Mrs. Golding of this picture is a young
English widow who has made a local sensa-
tion with her miniature portraits. As Bess
Lawrence she has
had work hung in
the Paris salon and
the Royal Academy.
She was a star-
student unde r the
famous Longmaid,
who also put Allan
Williams, president
of the Koyal Society
of Miniature
Painters, on his way
to fame. Mrs. Gold-
ing belongs to a
family very well
known in Southport
(Eng.). Her five
brothers all gave
their lives in the war,
and her father died
under the successive
blows. Her soldier husband developed lung
trouble and died, and the bereft woman
brought her two small children and her
talent to sunny Australia. The portraits of
her own lovely babies took the fancy of
several society women here, and then the
commissions began to come in. Some of
her miniatures are now on view in Drum-
mond’s Collins-street window.
The Peters, of Glenloth, gave a big ball
at the station homestead near the Murray
just before all hands left for town and the Cup.
Boort and Charlton and Bendigo got out
their best ball dresses and biggest cars and
motored many miles there and back. Some
of the guests apologised for “hurrying away
so early” ; still Mrs. Peter was putting out
the last of the ballroom lights after sunrise
next morning. There was a house-party
of 30 during the week. Glenloth was beau-
tifully decorated, and the big homestead
verandahs were rugged and cushioned and
lit softly with lanterns for tired and senti-
mental dancers. The ball was the event of
the district.
Gaud Mayor Aikman’s niece, now play-
ing the part of Lady Mayoress, is having a
party on November 10 at the Town Hall to
listen to the speeches at Uncle’s inaugural
dinner.
Rowing back to Henley for a moment, the
most exclusive and important gathering was
on president Fairbairn’s craft. He was the
usual _ eager host, whereas his wife rested
conspicuously between handshakes. Here
Lady Helen and the G.-G. took tea and ices.
Twelve Toorak matrons gave a party on
Thursday at St. Hilda Town Hall. The
Miller dame topped the list, and Mary
Moffatt acted as secretary to the party. The
pink lighting scheme helped the dancers to
look young, and there were crimson roses
everywhere. Mrs. Ronald Murray was first
past the post in a frock of pink hung with
ropes of nigger-brown chenille. General
White and his wife were present. Pretty
Cecily Catterall and her fiancd, Genthelp
Duncan, jazzed together. Mrs. Norman Pal-
kiner was in pink and silver, and Nancv
Mackinnon went to the early Victorian era
for a square-cut purple rigout.
Adelaide’s seven days :
A slleaf of good wishes will go from S. Aus-
tralians to Harold Boyce, the latest N. S. Wales
Rhodes Scholar. He was staying here when w ar broke
out and promptly enlisted. The young man annexed
the 1 1 ederick Huth Scholarship at the beginning of
this year, and has been at Balliol College, Oxford,
si nee.
There has been a slump in amateur Hiows since
war work slackened, but a good crowd turned up
at the Walkerville Hall to see an amateur rendering
oi F anny s First Play.” The Free Kindergartens
were the bait.
With the purchase of Riddocli’s Koorine for
soldier settlement passes another old South-eastern
station. When the old squatter died the station
went to his only grandchild, Miss Adelaide Napier.
A sum of £250 has come in for the War Horse
Memorial. At a meeting in the Mayor’s parlor on
Thursday a committee was appointed to arrange
what form it will take—possibly a drinking trough.
Vera Jurs is with us again, after fulfilling au
musical contract in Java.
Brewster-Jones's conceit at the Town Hall was
a remarkable outing. The whole programme con-
sisted of original compositions by this teacher’s own
students. A trio for piano, violin and violoncello
by Miss Bruer and “Variations on an Original
Theme” for the piano by Dorothy Terrell were at
the top of the list.
Glover, Mayor of Adelaide for another month
yet, is being congratulated on being called Lord
Mayor for that short period. Something to be
much prouder of is the War Memorial drive along
the north bank of the Torrens. It was Glover's
idea of a better way than noise and fireworks to
celebrate the coming of peace; and he gave £5OO
towards the cost. The first section, between King
William-road and Frome-road, is already open.
One of the world’s greatest fiddlers (by common
consent of English critics), Daisy Kennedy, has just
come back home. Kubelik, when here in 1908, was
enthusiastic about her, so she went to Vienna, under
Sevcik, and made a sensation in London when her
training was done. She has been away 11 years, and
is now the wife of Moisiewitsch, a Russian pianist.
A forewarning of Daryl Lindsay’s “Digger
Book” has been issued. It is an effect-
ively got-up collection of 14 of Daryls
studies, tinted and otherwise; but the °-'rev
wrapper, with its title lettered in |old*
gives no hint of the price the book will be
published at, nor does it contain any letter-
press except an introduction by Cb E. \Y
Bean. But as far as it goes the production!
at the Sun Art Studios, Melbourne, is a
sweet reminder of how local manufacture in
this way is advancing by leaps and bounds.
John Amadio intends to take his magic
flute to Europe, and a complimentary con-
cert is to happen at the Town Hall on Fri-
day, November 28.
Melba arrived in Paris on August 17, and
writes a letter full of emotion at seein°
again the city beloved of her for 30 years.
She left her Paris home hurriedly ’ some
months before the war to rush to Australia
and see sick dad. At her first big Bed
Cross concert she was singing something
from the Parisian opera “Louise” the night
the Huns were threatening to overwhelm
the city. Melba got through her song, but left
the platform with streaming eyes. Half the
audience did not know the words or origin
of “Louise,” but Melba’s singing of the
number turned them crazy. The singer came
back, sat at the piano with her face averted
and accompanied herself to a little French
song.
Now our singer says the beloved city is
dirty, but fast cleaning itself—painting
and furbishing and tidying up the neglected
window-boxes. She had been the round of
her Parisian dressmakers, and found nearly
all the same people there, happy and smiling
now, but with marks of age and sadness
on their faces.
■ Melba dived down into the South of
France in August and found a house for
the winter for her household. Son George,
his wife and the baby have been staying at
Hythe for the sea aii’, but go back to
grandame Melba this month. Incidentally,
grandma counts her recent London season
perhaps the happiest of her 'whole career.
She is to sing in Grand Opera in Paris in
December, and at Brussels in January.
Monte Carlo will hear her in March. Be-
fore the Continental season she goes through
the English provinces, and sings in London
this month.
Lady Helen will open the Arts and Crafts
Exhibition at Government House on Novem-
ber 12. The show will last for a fortnight.
Expert crafts-workers will demonstrate
during the exhibition, and .there is to be a
teashop attached.
The Purple Cross had ;{ome funds left
over in London. After long" discussion, the
money (nearly „ £500) was donated to tin*
R.S.P.C.A., for use in veterinary hospitals
in France. Captain Fairliodme, hon sec. to
the R.S.P.C.A. War Fund, had proved him-
self such a white man in helping the Aus-
tralians that the Purple Cross was anxious
to in some way reciprocate.
Archbishop Lowther Clark e’s appeal for a
large sum to complete St. Haul's Cathedral
has fallen flat. Scarcely a handful of money
has been forwarded. What a difference if
Mooi'house had made the appeal! Could the
great prelate, whose memor.f is still cher-
ished by the older people of Vic., be resur-
rected. he would build the to'(vers out of the
proceeds of ten addresses apd have some-
thing to spare. A city arcAbishop can be
a force or a frost. Moorehou pe w r as a force.
There is to be a farewell party at the
Presbyterian Ladies’ College that will in-
terest old pupils. Several off the old staff
are retiring at the end of th'is year. They
are Miss _ Triekett, Miss i (aterson, Miss
Frazer, Miss J. Frazer and Mrs. Allen.
The old Collegians want to givie them a send-
off and a souvenir, so there will be a deco-
rous tea-party at the College) on Saturday,
December G. Those 1 who wisii to subscribe
may send to Miss Mollison at;, the College.


r
t*.
) \“
m
a
v*
•‘v
A,
/*.. ; nra
A
s\
MW i
m
mm
IMi!
Il
a
i
B
I
JfW
S&Ri
ii
W
m
m
mf f / ,'3<>
mmwMz
asu
R
i \«
\ l .:.. ; : .v^
m
■
L /m
j/; 11 > "
UkkA-O
*uM',
"''LI
\ i I
Ut/ U' ’u
i y
4 »'•/,
"//i
, V
hex.
’Z?
h ‘ l
W{(\{
'<’■%< V ,
i till v lu. ci <( / ' <A
jtu(
ft
%
V
W / W
*ltl'
~( '«
izL(n a
v;//*
V
A
,/ “* *
!.l
1
U #'o
n.
hm {{{U
i i
»„
W'/S/ttiH I
/ (4^
V ill
lU V/// u«
%)/ / ’W,
aim'd'
l Lv.j
A TIP WORTH HAVING..
r
66
Imperial”


Under
Royal
Warrant
sd
To H.M.
Kin 6
George V
CHAMPAGNE
an ins
champagne
Qlarlesllfidsie*-
Reims
ft I JJ ►*»•**"
’ t flTr»i i ■ i.i —rf 8 *!
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
&
'wm
-Q-
-j_ack Polish
* VI * Q ttAIHCHTROH
R)r PatEnt.Glace Kiqßcdc
™LEArHERS/^
KTgSaMI
Sid
you?
HI
£3
J
The
Hitherto
Unmendable
“MAC”
CAN EASILY
BE REPAIRED
WITH
Mend-a/Tefejr
That wonderlul o«w material which mend* without stitches
mend* almost invisibly and so Quick! v. Don’t discard your
Mac if it is torn or unseamed. MEND-A-TEAR WILL
MAKE IT LIKE NEW. ft?
Sample Outfit post free on
receipt of 1/4.
Sole Wholesale Distributors for New South
Wales and Queensland —
Bennett 8 Barkeii Ltd.
Meagher Strut, SYDNEY.
Missing Friends.
PETER HANSEN, working for many
years on Kensington Downs, and lately
returned from the Front, is requested to
communicate with D. C. K. Cameron, c/o
Union Trustees, 398-400 Queen Street, Bris-
bane.
IF MRS. MAY DERN (formerly May
Reece), wife of Conrad Dern of Isisford,
Queensland, who left Isisford for Chiltern,
Victoria, on 29th November, 1908, will at
once communicate with the undersigned she
will hear of something to her advantage.
Should she be dead, any person able to
afford proof of her death is earnestly re-
quested to write immediately to
RONALD F. SWANWIGK, Solicitor,
Blackall, Central Queensland.
HEADY, COUNTY LOUTH. Informa-
tion wanted of MICHAEL HEALY.
a Medical Doctor, formerly of Waterunder.
or Hill of Rath, Mell, Drogheda, County
Louth, Ireland, who emigrated to Sydney,
Australia, about 25 or 30 years ago; or, if
dead, his next of kin. Address: SMYTH
and SON, Solicitors, Drogheda. Ireland.
The Dainty Afternoon Teas served at the “PAVILION,” Circular Quay, Sydney, are patronised by the best people. Orchestral performances daily.
A WOMAN’S
LETTER
Gum-leaf and blossom, wuratah and
flannel-flower bloom again in leather and
china at the Arts and Crafts show in the
Education Buildings. The delicate work of
Ada Newman lifts the china painting to a
high niche; and the trays of jewellery by
Mildred Creed and Rhoda AA r ager, blazing
with their amethyst and topaz fires, are to
the woman visitor as the apple to Eve.
Some exquisite bits of pottery (not for sale)
are shown by Mrs. A r i Eyre, and models of
dolls’ heads (modelled from the family’s
baby and carried out in china and plaster)
are the work of the same clever hands —a set
of arms and legs and a head to top them
with, all for 7s. 6d. So no kiddie this
Christmas need carry a doll with an Eastern
eye. Airs. Elliott and Airs. Parsons show
stained woods that are a glow of warm color-
ings ; and the silver teaspoons by J. R.
Linton —among the Gallery purchases—take
pride of place in a very special cabinet. In
the outer room the boys from Randwick are
showing what they can do in d’oyleys and
trays, bead necklets, cushions, leather-work
and woodwork. Many of them faced and
finished the job with only one hand; and
some of them have no eyes to see the line
thing they are making. In this exhibit is a
carved table whose bold design preserves all
the dignity of the waratah. Then there’s
the traveller’s air-cushion which can be de-
flated to become a suede cover for rug or
overcoat, and is sold for 30s.
The Niagara brought home as many as
it could carry, and there was the usual
dreadful confusion at the wharf. Of course,
it was nobody’s fault; but a little tired lady
who, after waiting four hours for her home-
coming soldier-boy, spread out a sheet of
paper and made a bundle of herself on the
floor, faintly murmured that she would like
to shake somebody. Among the womcn-
kind who stepped ashore when the military
police would let them was Daisy Kennedy,
Australia’s finest production in violinists.
“Full House” was the sign at St. James’s
last Thursday when the Army nurses were
welcomed home by the A.T.N.A. The little
hall was packed to overflowing; medical de-
grees, stars and garters and 0.8.E.’s
struggled for foothold, and having secured
it would not be lured aw r ay; so jazzing was
off, but talking put on a record. Alany of
the nurses wore their crepe de chine mess
frocks, with crimson cloaks of the same
silkiness across their shoulders or secured
in front with a swanky big black silk
frog. AVith hardly an exception they
had thrown their stiff head-gear aside, and
for one evening dressed their locks as their
fancy led them. The deputy vice-regal Cul-
lens had the party more or less under their
wing, the lady moving about in her peren-
nial soft grey. The forceful Fiaschi and his
wife were there. Mrs. David brought her
dignity and her Professor; and Matrons
Gould and Iloadley and Uni. senator-to-be
Constance D’Arcy were among the changing
groups. The Edith Cavell memorial was
represented by Theo. Cowan in a pretty
cream tulle frock, and Aliss Teece, whose
brother represents the soldiers and sailors,
wore heavyweight silver embroideries. Mat-
ron Ennis, who is retiring from military
nursing, got off with the booty of the even-
ing, taking home with her a gold wristlet
watch, a cheque and a leather wallet, this
last made by some of her best boys at Rand-
wick.
The Holmans poured the Brittains a part-
ing cup on the verandah of Parliament House
on Friday. Airs. Brittain’s pretty coloring
emerged triumphant from a soft black charfo-
euse frock, against which she clasped an
armful of pink and red roses handed to her
by Airs. Holman, who was all navy and
white contrasts. There were lots of consuls’
wives, including Aladame of the Netherlands,
in white; and the Belgian and the French
ladies, the last still struggling against the
handicap of little or no English. The tall Miss
Chomley in navy and Airs. Sims of the latest
British delegation were there. Quite a may-
pole party it was, Airs. Rich, Airs. Black-
lock. Mrs. Brittain, Miss Chomley and Airs.
Holman being more than common tall. Airs.
Sheffer was the well-dressed woman in the
cloak, and Airs. A'erbrugghen with her
orange-plumed hat chattered to everybody.
Judge Cohen’s lady, in cream tailorings, and
Speaker Levy’s daughters helped to make
the party. The Star-spangled Banner was
flung to the breeze by the orchestra, and
everybody stood silent and solemn between
spoonsful of strawberries.
Perhaps the introduction of its two newest
twins to the Crown-street AVomen’s Hospital
meeting was responsible for the enthusiasm
with which an auxiliary to keep up a supply
of linen and baby-clothes was formed. The
tiny nine days’ wonders gurgled and smiled
and turned an inquiring eye upon Mrs. Earp
and Mrs. Sly when those two ladies cooed;
and altogether the meeting was a great suc-
cess. After the entry of the twinnies there
was a rush of offers even for the unpopular
job of sweeping up subscriptions. The glean-
ings of the Victory Ball were handed over
to Mrs. Sly, and she counted up the golden
grain and made it £3OO odd. Airs. Holman,
all in white, suggested Taronga Park as a
good spot in which to raise the wind by a
cafe chantant; and a request is to be sent
to the lion to roar a very loud roar indeed,
and to the tiger to wear his best stripes,
and thereby do their bit to provide a com-
plete trousseau for each baby entering the
world at Crown-street.
The Blue Triangle can see the foun-
dation stone of the girls’ hostel being
laid, even though the £50,000 hasn’t
yet been put in the bank. At the
Bilious Club luncheon on Wednesday,
when good old Tom Henley (why ivill he
be so absurd as to call himself a colonel?)
was the gdest of honor, Miss Snelson raised
the voice of lamentation over the small har-
vest the campaign was raking in. Arthur
Rickard quickly emptied his pockets of
£5OO worth of shares, and the Club handed
in its cheque for £5 ss. Aliss Snelson, in
reply, spoke some words of neat ingratitude;
while the Club to a man shuddered at the
thought that the smallness of the cheque
might make a whole army of girls take the
wrong turning.
The lawns at Lewisham were gay when,
the business of the 30th annual meeting
over, the Mother Superior of the Hospital and
the sisters hostessed a happy tea-drinking.
At the meeting Dick Aleagher rose to great
heights of eloquence when proposing the
adoption of the report. Archbishop Kelly
and Governor Davidson looked on and ap-
plauded.
This is the May Aloore picture of Mrs.
Sherwood, artist, who started life as Maude
Winifred Kimbell, of Alaoriland. From the
days of her infancy she plucked every prize
that grew on the Chilly Isles’ sparsely-fruited
tree of art, as a small girl doing promising
work under the guidance of Alabel Hill,
sister of composer Alfred, though it is
Jimmy Nairn, of the Wellington Art School,
whom she acknow-
ledges as her
greatest master.
Jimmy was trying to
recapture health on
the outer rim of the
earth, and so it was
that Maoriland had
the benefit of his
brilliant art-brain.
There will be those
in Wellington to re-
member the stir
caused when, as a
youngster, Maude
Ivimbell gained the
South Kensington
National bronze
medal, and Dick
Seddon himself pre-
sented it to her in
the Cabinet room. She studied for many
years in Paris and London, returning to
Australia just before the European erup-
tion; and about that time she herself faced
the problem of internal affairs by accepting
a plain gold band from A. C. Sherwood.
Last year Mrs. Sherwood took the helm m
reorganising the Society of Women Painters
on the artistic side. She has worked hard
to raise the standard of the show, and looks
forward to next week’s exhibition, when she
says all Sydney will be astonished.
Even Achilles had his vulnerable spot, and
going upon this Dan Cupid was not dis-
mayed bv the hard-boiled bachelorhood of
Charley Jaques. It was the pretty upstand-
ing widow Owen Dibbs (she was Alex-
ander) who flung the dart some months
back, and Mr. Jaques became hers for keeps
at St. John’s, Darlinghurst, on a warm night
last week. The lady wore grey of so deep
a tone that it amounted almost to a storm ;
in addition, a head-dress of silver roses and
fine tulle and a pair of very handsome
shoulders. The popular Sandy was his
brother’s best man. The choristers raided
their trebles, and the pair were made one
under the eye of the three Points, which
turned out in their starkest back for the
occasion. Mrs. Jaques in grey crepe de chine
and a black hat watched her son take the
leap ; his sister, Mrs. Macneil Simpson, wore
mauve satin and silver lace and mauve or-
chids ; Mrs. James Burns and her sister Mrs.
Williams cloaked themselves in bits of the
Orient; Mrs. Val Osborne trailed deep pink
draperies. The Antills, the Gordons, a bat-
talion of the Osbornes, the Philip Mortons,
the Kelso Kings and the Venour Nathans
were among the hundred-odd guests that the
bride’s dad, of Double Bay, fed, later on, at
the Hotel Mansions, which is on a strong
social up-grade at the moment. The new
Mrs. Jaques faced the honeymoon in a s.lk
tricolette frock, and combined mauve and blue
in her hat without any disastrous results to
her complexion.
The bridal dress was a voguey, modish
affair of oxidised silver taffeta and lace. It.
had a wriggly one-sided train caught with a
girdle of baby-blue and tiny flowers. The
effect was Parisian, though the work was
done in Sydney.
The bridegroom is the eldest of three
Jaques brothers. The universally-known
Sandy lost his leg and got otherwise knocked
about with the R.F.A., while Lionel (the
fianc6 of Barbara Gordon) was hit in the
head on Gallipoli. Charles couldn’t attend
the war: he had only just got back from a
trip to a foreign eye-specialist when it began.
He is a member of the Stephen, Jaques and
Stephen law firm, and, besides, has an
orchard at Batlow.
For the wedding of Jeanne, elder
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. J. J. Roth, of
Bondi, to Robert Valehtine Fell, late of
10th light Horse, the ring was made from
a Turkish “sovereign” which the ’groom
picked up at the war. At the reception, held
at the Wentworth Hotel, the decorations
were done in black and gold, the bridegroom’s
colors. Once upon a time this bride in-
vented a blouse-grip. It would have yielded
her a fortune if the high-waisted skirt hadn't
come into fashion; even as it was the girl
raked in quite a nice sum of money.
Arthur Pitt, having steered clear of the
whirlpool until he is very close to middle-age,
is placing his store of legal knowledge at
the feet of fair 20-year-old Phyllis Nicholson.
It’s Arthur’s dad who has the wonderful
Wentworth gardens that shower millions of
daffodils upon Sydney hospitals every year.
Just-returned Bob Carlisle has bought a
ring for Marjorie Robey’s third finger.
Tom D’Arcy Irvine, son of the Archdea-
con, cables that he’s arrived at Scotland
from the frozen north of Russia. He left
Sydney in the early days of the war with
the Engineers. Trench feet took him from
the Army, but the Navy accepted him, and
lately he had been keeping his eye on the
Bolsheviks. He hopes to get home in May
or June.
Judge Montgomerie Hamilton has a cable
from son John —“Expect me for Christ-
mas.” Since the young soldier left, in the
first year of the war, he’s acquired a D. 5.0.,
an English wife and an infant daughter.
Austin Chapman, M.H.R., and his wife
(she was an O’Brien, of Bellevue, Braid-
wood) had a silver-wedding party last week.
Mrs. H. G. Wheeler, one ?of the fine
women who mothered the Queensland boys
on leave in London, is a passenger by the
incoming Osterley; an,d the Metropole will
house her till she moves north to find out
what sort of a welcome-home Rockhampton
is saving up for her. With her is daughter
Portia, who is soon to marry Mr. Fox, a
C.Q. grazier.
This is something like a motor-spin. Feel-
ing they needed a little bucking-up after
three strenuous years at Broken Hill, where
’flu followed a plague of diphtheria, Dr.
McKay and his wife, who used to be Stella
McCarthy, climbed in their two-seater for
another run across to Sydney, taking turn
and turn at the wheel. They had done it
before, but not in such a drought as this.
After washing off the dust at the Australia,
they left this week for Melbourne —through
Gippsland, if the road reports are right--
and then complete the triangle home.
The Titheradge girls Madge and Frances
are off to Florida for the making of “The
Butterfly on the Wheel” film at what even
the successful Madge calls a princely figure;
so Mrs. Titheradge and little sister Nina
will have a few months to wait for the
sit-by-the-fire talk they had been looking
forward to. Meantime Nina and mother are
camped in Madge’s old-world cottage 50
miles from London. Dion, all being well,
links up with one of his old managers in
the States early next year.
Dr. Gladys Shaw, who has just wedded
her degrees with those of Dr. E. Rowley of
Auckland, is one of a group of slight, fair
sisters who used to ornament Dunedin’s
small-and-earlies in pre-war days. Gladys
was for some time on the staff of the
Women’s Hospital, Paddington. The honey-
moon is to be spent in Canada.
Maudie Fane, back with the Firm once
more, prettier than ever and singing like
a bird, made the hit of the afternoon at the
Actors’ Assoc, benefit on Friday. In her
trig black costume and a black velour hat
she might have stepped from the gang-plank
of her own Dreamboat. Behind Alaudie s
songandance the house always senses quick
intelligence and a spirit of irrepressible fun.
and there’s three cheers for that all the
world round.
St. John’s at Darlinghurst is coming into
its own as a fashionable marriage-exchange.
And if the wedding cheques are proportioned
to the style, the clergy should be able to
buv new broadcloth all round even at pre-
sent prices. Jean Ilay, the Philip Morton
blossom, marries her young D. 5.0.. Robert
Little, there on Nov. 20. The Morton girls
have clever sewing fingers, so probably lots
of the bridal undies will be fashioned at
home. At one time the girls’ friends thought
they should become professional architects in
uinon, but they satisfied themselves by mak-
ing pretties for patriotic funds.
Capt. Matthews, who was the first airman
to buzz off on a flight from England to Aus-
tralia, was hung up at Cologne when last
beard from; but by
this time he is prob-
ably knocking feath-
ers out of the eagles
much further south.
This picture shows
the plucky Scottish-
Australian. He’s a
versatile soul. For
no other reason than
that he’d never seen
a horse marine he
became one left
Howard Smith’s ser-
vice (in which he
was a navigation-
officer) to join the
Light Horse in S.
Aus. The War Office
decided that he
might be more use-
ful somewhere else, so put liim into the
Australian Flying Corps, and lie went away
with the first squadron to leave England.
Afterwards he joined the Larkin-Sopwith
Co., and it’s a Sopwith with a Rolls-Royce
engine that Cologne has been making
grunting noises at lately. There is a Gov-
ernment prize of £lO,OOO waiting in Aus-
tralia for him if he can land ahead of all
others in the flight from England.
The Christian Brothers’ Jubilee brought
its celebrations to a grand finale at the
Town Hall when Owen Cox crowned John
Brown of Paddington chief of the Princes of
Pass-the-hat. Twelve little princes, each
with his attendants all outvying Solomon in
the glory of their raiment, solemnly pro-
ceslied, while a wigged and gowned lord
chancellor read the name of the victor in
a loud voice. There was a medal for each
of the also-rans, pinned on by the mayoral
Richards, but it was John Brown who got
off with the sceptre and the crown. Well,
with a name like that you can get away with
anything, from the Derby to a consolation
prize.
Her Ex.. Quakerlike in black dress with
white collar and cuffs, opened the show and
brought her own exhibit with her. It is a
tray of Australian wood picked up bv Dame
Margaret on her recent drought-breaking
tour. The Lambkin was in gentle attend-
ance.
Another pair of homing birds with a ton
of foreign feathers are Edna and Gladys
Lethbridge, who have more relations to the
square inch than any other girls in Sydney.
Brisbane works the social semaphore:—
An epidemic of military weddings has been raging
lately. Major Patterson, late of the 43rd, a Vic-
torian, married Blane Love, daughter of the hos-
pitable James Loves, of Kedron, at St. John's
Cathedral. \era Noyes and Marie Love were brides-
maids. Another southern soldier-bridegroom was Capt,
Reg Wood, late Lewis-gun officer of the 41st, eldest
son of Mr. and Mrs. E. G. Wood, of Fairfield, Syd-
ney. He married Dorothy Shaw. Lieut. R. B. Bird,
M.C., of the 47th, and Elsie Wood were the principals
in another ceremony. The bridegroom’s two soldier
brothers helped him through and the bride’s two
sisters attended the leading lady.
That good sport M. L. Ramsay recently made a
handsome donation to the Tuffnell Home for
Orphans, which the Anglican Church keeps an eye
on. The Ramsay money built a hospital ward, with
surgery, dispensing rooms and nurses’ quarters all
complete.
The orthopaedic wing at the Rosemount Military
Hospital was opened the other day by Lady Goold
Adams. The wing was built and equipped by the
Wattle Day League.
Brisbane’s Mayoress, Mrs. C. P. Buchanan, has
formed a committee which will work for the Soldiers
and Sailors’ Children’s Bursary Fund —an unwieldy
title for an excellent idea. About 4000 young
Bananalanders will benefit by the scheme, and the
fund, which will operate for 25 years, requires
£lOO,OOO to finance it. All the branches of the
R.S.S.I.L. are helping.


Wmm
m
fi
as
t,
s
He
r<\
m
Ct<V
22
C±±^
1
*
•x : ! ■ Vi tilt
<iV : -
*<3b
3!
T
\
ro
Model 90 Breaks
the World’s Non-
stop High Gear
Record
w
ri-
fe!
jo.
«
k
/£
Showing the World What
175,000 Owners Know
There recently was conducted in the United States a most unusual test of an Overland
Motor Car. A Model 90 car, TAKEN FROM STOCK, was driven 4370 miles without
stopping the engine and sealed in HIGH GEAR. This broke, by 129 miles, the existing
world’s record for a high-gear, non-stop trip.
With gears sealed in “high” and the shift lever removed, this Model 90 was driven continuously
for seven days and seven nights, a daily average of over 600 miles, through the State
of Oklahoma, in all kinds of weather and over every kind of road.
Without the slightest mechanical trouble en route, with never a break in the even action
of the engine, this Model 90 finished the gruelling test in as perfect running condition
as when it started. There is no more reliable motor car than Overland Model 90.
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS—
GARRATTS LTD., Sydney.
KELLOW-FALKINER PTY. LTD., Melbourne.
AUTO-CARS LTD., Adelaide.
EAGER & SON. Brisbane.
ANDERSON & ADAMS LTD., Perth.
H. G. HLEATHORNE & CO. Ltd., Holjart.
A. HATRICK & CO., Wanganui, N.Z.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION, Christchurch. N.Z.
THE JOHN N. WILLYS EXPORT CORPORATION
165 Broadway, NEW YORK, U. S. A.


w
o
HPHE wear
A you get
from Pelaco
Collars is sur-
prising. And they’re
so smart that wearing
them is a pleasure.
Comfortable, too.
COLLARS
JXtadc in Australia
“THERE’S MONEY IN THE PEN.”
i
2*'
The above
is the titled
of our book-
let. which
tells about
the possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
by HARRY J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
difference between
learning to COPY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains, in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
penny stamps
to-day for a
copy of this
booklet—
“THEßE’S
MONEY
IN
THE
PEN.”
THE HARRY J, WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
ISO Waltham Buildingrs, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY.
fd
sf
the. WORLD'S
Wm BEST value
sdf
sd
Three-Bladed Stock Knife — For skinning,
castrating and foot-rot.
NEST Brand, made by Southern and Richardson, Shef-
field, England, Post Free 12/6
HAMMER Brand, made by New York Knife Co.
Post Free 10/6
CATTLE KNIFE (3 blades), spear-point blade, cas-
trating and foot-rot, Post Free .. . 12/6
Two-Bladed Pocket Knife, NEST Brand, a
popular Sheffield make, one blade thin skinning or
wide skinning, other ordinary style, Post Free 7/-
Useful Tobacco Knife, 2 blades, Post Free 6/-
Manufacturers’ Selling Agency, 8 Spring St., Sydney.
Where to Stay when Visiting Sydney
Cronulla Beach Hotel.
Direction Cronulla Hotel, Ltd.
Healthy, Invigorating SURFING Resort.
Tel., liogarah 19. Week-ends a Specialty.
J. A, GRANT, Manager.
V.
✓. • ;
\
Send Your Height & Weight with Order.
The “Bulletin”
A GOOD SADDLE
WITH
A GOOD NAME.
The “Bulletin” is a saddle very popular for its
moderate price, its comfortable lines and its wear-
ing properties.
We make the tree in this saddle ourselves —it is
well plated along the bars, has good strong gullet
plate and steel stirrup bars. The knee-puds are
well made and hand sewn, the panel is the favorite
short style with broad leather sweat-fiaps at side
and extended leather facings at back. The fittings
are as illustrated, folded girth, leathers and polished
two-bar stirrups.
£B/18/-
Freight Free for Cash with Order to
any N.S.W. Port or Station on the
N.S.W. Railway System.
Write for Our 130-Page Catalogue.
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON LTD.,
SADDLERS,
393 George Street, SYDNEY.
BOSTOGK’S LIQUID DRESSING
THE SIGN OF
PERFECTION
FOR
Black & Brown Suede.
You can make your Suede Shoes look smart and new always by
the regular use of Bostock’s Liquid Dressing.
It is economical and DOES NOT HUB OFF.
OBTAINABLE ANYWHERE.
BOSTOCK’S VIOLO POLISHES LTD., Sydney.
A CONTRACT IS A CONTRACT
fsd
DYES.
THE reputation of our Pyramid Aniline
Colors has been established during a
period when it has not been easy to live
no to our standards. The quality of our
Pyramid Aniline Colors is as firmly fixed
to-day in the minds of buyers as our slogan
“A Contract, is a Contract.”
Every shipment of our Pyramid Aniline
Colors is tested to see that it conforms to
our standards before it is allowed to go
forward. We will send our complete Dve Catalogue on request.
Specialists in the export of American chemicals.
Importers of raw materials for American industries.
BUSH, BEACH & GENT Inc.,
80 Maiden Lane, Holbrook Building,
New York, U.S.A. San Francisco.
Cable Address (Both Offices) “ Beachfred .”
uiMiiiiiiiniiiiMiiiiiiiiiiMiiiuiiiiiifimMmiimiiiiimmmiMmmmmmimimimiimiimiiuiiiiiuiiimitnimi
BUSH, BEACH a GENT me.
New York - San Francisco. U.S.A.
[lllltMlllltlllllllHlllllllllilllllllllllUllllillllHllKlMilllinilllllllllltlllllllltltlllllilif liiiliiiiiiiltiimiiiiiiiMiii
The man who
appreciates
the good things of
life numbers amongst
his most treasured
possessions his favor-
ite pipe.
“Odds on”—it's a
3K
sin"
<\
i
'C
Many popular shapes.
Sold everywhere.
the perfect pipe
BD
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Machine G.: There’s a fine story to be
made of the tin-hat and what it did; yours is as
dull as lcwt. of lead and about the same color. Now
try again St. G.A.D.: Doesn’t score even an
outer.... Raven: “Friendships” too thin.... Cora:
Better lay your little head on his manly bosom
and whisper it to him. He won’t notice the defects
so much that way.... Bale-boy Billy: It might; but
not in this paper.... Zoe: N 0... .Trebar: “All too
Human” is all to aimless... .Eva E.: What’s it all
about?.... A. Carr: Helping from the man you
chanced to meet:—
Your dear old dad of fun was full,
A strong and daring lad,
I’ve seen him tease the roaring bull
Till he was well-nigh mad;
Then leap upon the wild beast’s back,
And with a shout of glee
Go raging down the winding track—
’Twas a thrilling sight to see.
It must have been. .. .M.A.: (1) The yarn is hopeless.
(2) You might find a publisher if the work was
good and decently presented ; the copy you forward is
shameful. (3) All depends on the copies. Some
have great value... .Honest Rogue: The material for
a yarn, but you haven’t made 0ne.... Nance C.:
Loose blots in faint ink attached to looser sen-
tences. .. .C.E.H.8.: Read the paper and discover
that we don’t print things like that. E.S.M.: A
poor yarn. How could a man like that be worth
wasting a blot of ink on?. .. .Tiino: Too much melo-
drama. ... .11. A.F.: Sketches not bright, enough....
1.M.L.: Too many words and too long in getting to
the point; and it’s a very small point... .E.E.C.:
“All’s Well” not for us. .. . P.A.L.: Humorous, but
you need to preserve a semblance of probability....
Ne’er Do Well: They don’t get us... .A.G.C.: Far
too bumpy... .Whistling Man: Very crude....
R.A.R.: Verse must be a lot better than that....
A.J.L.: Too horrible... .Goolreagh: Doesn’t strike us.
....Fan: “Dusk, hark! Love! Life! Death! Ah!”
That’s all it says; and there is no music in the
saying.... Mascot: Not much hope unless you can
say something new or in a new way. .. . Doxitc: (1)
It isn’t a sonnet; (2) the subject is very slight
and has been worked to death; (3, and finally) the
verse is stiff and unattractive... .F.A.R.: Not up....
I. (Gladesville) : The verse is very crude. .. . V.C.0.:
“V.C.” is another’s pen-name. Verse doesn’t get near.
....Don Three: It came in years and years ag0....
W.H.R.: Noisy verse with little thought in it....
K.K.K.: None of them quite. Look over “Before
Absence” again, t. .R.N.A.M.: That is not verse....
Majog: It is bad prose... .Oliver B.: The “Country
Quack” is full of mystic subtlety:—
As one never knows what will happen,
For Annie’s always in pain and sorrow,
John says, Go and see old Doctor Harpen.
And sure you’ll be at ease to-morrow.
For sure next day when crossing the moor,
To see the blessed old quack,
Annie fell and she saw no more
Until John found her in a terrible rack.
Now Annie’s pain with her ankle strained,
The old doc didn’t know what was wrong;
It’s badly swollen and awfully stained,
John says now he’s an old greenhorn.
.... G.L.T.: “Barrington’s Revenge” doesn't quite
hang together... .J.T.A.:, No improvement in the
“Dance.” It wants life and vigor, not that heavy,
conventional treatment... .A.8.C.: The “Lights”
won’t d 0.... J.F.M.: Nothing in it for u 5.... Darby:
There was a fantastic idea there. Now put more pains
into it 11. P.: Terrible verse R.0.W.: Nothing
in it. .. .L.C.R.: Doesn't get there... .F.M. (S.A.) :
Verse wobbles and falls and then staggers on to no-
where .... J. W.8.P.: To be exact, 175,697 better sets
of verse have appeared on the same subject. .. .J.F.
(St. Clair): It hasn’t improved with keeping... .M.C.
* (Parwan) ; Just manages to keep out J.G.P.; Stiff
verse and impossible subject.... Dig.: “Friend in
Need” is too crude.... J.S. (Wellington): “My
Uniform” not up. .. . Bellerive: “A St. Incident” is
as nice a sample of vers libre (American style) as
we've seen :
During a procession in the city
A battered looking Moocher, who was
Shuffling about among the crowd,
Chanced to notice the butt of a cigar
Protruding ’neath the heel of a well-dressed
Elderly man. Eager to secure the weed
The Moocher took up his position behind
The gentleman, and bawled out in an
Agonised tone: “Lor’ blimey, get off my
Corn!” With the result the gentleman
Apologised and moved aside, when the
Moocher picked up the butt and shuffled
Off with a smile of satisfaction.
R.F.S.: Clever in its way, but very slight
J. : Don’t like its spirit Vickay: Too rugged
for the little thing it is North F.: The verse goes
out of tune too often... .Alan B.: “Sunset” is too
frail; the other might do. .. .G.E.M.: “The Taj
Mahal’ must go back; the other held for inquest....
J.H.: “Lost Light” and “Asian Dawn” fail. .. .C.C.M.:
Bad verse V.G.V.: Not up Mr. T.: Poor stuff.
. ...X.Y.X.: Yarn no good. People who write on
two sides of the paper are asking for rejection....
The Sawdust King: A long way off C.C.N.: You
start to parody and lose the metre you are follow-
ing at the second stanza. . . .D.J. (Derby) : You've a
long road still to travel C.P. (Bowen): Yarn
doesn’t go the way you want it to.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
G.K.: Improve your drawing and look for brighter
gags.... 8.5. A.: W lien you have acquired some
knowledge of drawing invest in a little India ink
and Bristol board... .5.11.: Two wooden men and a
creaky joke. .. .R.T.: Some quality in your wash.
Study 0n... .E.D.: What is the scowling woman
doing in the tree?. .. .L.V.A.C.: Next time you send
a drawing let’s have the words and the music as
well Rhineite: Very laborious. Your line is
heavyweight-lifting.. ..T.G.: 16! There’s hope for
you... .G.W.D.: That is one of the Seven Deadly
Jests D'A.L.M.: Won’t fit here F.D.M.: Old
as Hades ami not half as interesting... . A.W.O’II. :
Unsuitable T. 8.: Nothing in it H.U.R.: You
leave out too much 11. V.: Scratches and a feeble
jape....C. \V.: It is neither sport nor art.
“Hamer”: Met my friend the Christian
Israelite near the Repat. Office to-day. He
attended to enlist about three years ago,
and was told that he would have to pass
the barber first. In an hour he was back,
in a shaven condition, and was passed.
Now. discharged, he has re-grown the locks
he considers essential to salvation —in tim3
of peace, anyhow.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted j
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and |
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Eor all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-. Second- and Third-class
fares.
Apply
ORIKNT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.— City 4246,
4947
481 o!
o 4 5 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
via
the Allied Route,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, NOVEMBER 12,
VENTURA.
10,DUO Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Telephone: City 2282. 44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
XIIK
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Mon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY
Kt. (Chairman); WILLIAM DAVIES; E. 11.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ; Hon. Sir ROBERT PIIILP
K.C.M.G. ; lion. A. .1. TIIYNNE, M.L.C.
Genekai, Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Ac;t 1863.
Bankers to the Governmeilt of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30. 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .691,850 10 0
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 272,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 18!)3 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
lion. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ;
W. H. Hart, Esq. ; Joseph Hughes, Esq., 1.5.0.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
HUAI) OFFICE - - - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up '..£1,198,679
Reserve Fund £160,000
Directors : HERBERT R. LYSAGHT, Esq., Chairman ;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LL.D. ; FRANK N. YAR-
WOQD, Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon.
F. JAGO SMITH, M.L.C. ; DUNCAN CARSON,
Esq.
General Manager : C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). CJiief Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. 11. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedie Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 146 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up .. .. .. 1,000.000
Uncalled Capital .. .. .. 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,496,224
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
SYDNEY OFFICE : 105 PITT STREET.
Paid-up Capital . . . . . . £500,000
Reserve Fund . . . . . . . 570,000
£1,070,000
Uncalled capital .. - . . ... 125,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . 625,000
£1,820,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 85 Branches and Agencies i n that State.
London Office: 11 LEADENIIALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected'
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Shipping, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST. FASTEST. AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
R.M.S. MAKURA, November 13.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, December.
The most beautiful Scenery in the World —the Canadian Rockies —is on the All-Red Route.
The Prairies, the Great Lakes, Chicago, Niagara Falls and New York can all be visited.
Through bookings to all Canadian, United States and European points.
Stop-overs on the Railways Arranged.
CALL OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS OF THIS ROUTE.
PASSENGERS CAN CHANGE AT HONOLULU INTO A DIRECT STEAMER FOR
SAN FRANCISCO.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Fran cisco, vi a Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through hookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can he seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park. Niagara Falls, etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above sei’vices apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
fsd
fsd
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Send for particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
Directors:
£4,000,000
3,100,000
4,000,000
£11,100,000
The lion. Sir Cnarles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
F. B. S. Falkiner. Esq., M.H.U.
The Hon. Reginald ,T. Black, M.L.C.
Auditors : S. E. Laidley, Esq. ; A. G. Milson, Esq.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull. Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
General Manager: Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
Ilenri Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office —29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
340 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT.., Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Commonwealth
$] HEAD OFFICE
f
Jank ot Iterate
SYDNEY. ■
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking: Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain),
also London (2), and A.I.F. Camps in England.
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and SAVINGS BANK AGENCIES at 2776 Post Offices
throughout Australia, Papua, New Britain, Solomon Islands,
and The Pacific.
JAMES KELL, DENISON MILLER,
Deputy Governor 1919 Governor
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1834.
Capital paid up £2,382,018 15 0
Reserve Fund - £2,120,000 0 0
Reserve Capital £2,500,000 0 0
£7,002,018 15 0
sdf
Directors:
G. .1. Cohen, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses, M.E.C.
J. W. Macarthur Oaslow, Esq.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes,
M.L.C.
Sir Thomas’A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Branch: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C.
London Bankers — The Bank of England; The London County Westminster and
Parr's Bank. Limited: Barclays Bank, Limited.
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Shipping.
SYDNEY INTER-STATE SUB-COMMITTEE
INTER-STATE PASSENGER SAILINGS
(Circumstances remitting).
FOR MELBOURNE.
Huddart Parker Lim
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND.—ReguIar sail-
ings between Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand
[ ports and vice versa; particulars to be obtained on
application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA.—From Sydney to
TTohart and vice versa every three weeks. Between
Melbourne and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; George Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE FINE TWIN-SCREW STEAMER
“LEVUKA,” 6500 tons,
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
' The “Levuka” is fitted with wireless and with
every modern convenience for the comfort of passen-
gers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 26
days, and from Sydney 18 days. Passengers desiring
a more extended tour can travel by S.S. “Amra,”
which connects at Suva.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street,
Melbourne, or Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MALLE AY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Munvillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 13s. 6d.; second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 7s. 6d.
For particulars apply :
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
Favorite Mail Route to Japan, with connections
at Japan to
EUROPE AND AMERICA.
Tours can be arranged to China, Japan, Korea,
by this Line.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN.
Via Brisbane, Townsville, Thursday
Island, Zamboanga, Manila, Hongkong,
Nagasaki, Kobe and Yokohama.
SPECIAL NOTICE. —All Passengers proceeding to
JAPAN must have their Passports vised by the Con-
sul-General for Japan in accordance with the regula-
tions of the Japanese Government
Full particulars of Sailing Dates, Passage Money,
Freights, etc., apply
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LTD.,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable Addr
“Iroquois.
Macdonald, Hamilton § Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Managing: Agents for:
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co.. .Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co. Limited.
Eitzroy Estates Limited.
Blackheath Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co
AGENTS FOR:
British India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Sydney).
P. & O. S. X. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messageries Maritimes Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane.
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.—at Queens-
land Ports).
Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports).
Huddart Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
Head Office: Mary Street, Brisbane.


d?
is
si.v i- m.
Bringing the
Operas to the
Country Home!
The most remarkable collec-
tion of Celebrity Records ever
produced from the one opera
is now made available in the
notable “His Master’s Voice”
triumph which introduces the
whole of the opera of
of 18
Celebrity Records, £17(17/-
And this is but one of many complete sets of Opera Records
which indicate the remarkable supremacy of
His Master’s Voice
Records
for it should be noted and remembered that these are not
merely songs from the Operas by record singers, but the actual
Operas as sung by the great stars who appear at Covent Garden,
The Metropolitan and other famous Opera Houses. They sing
for NO OTHER RECORDS but ”His Master’s Voice.”
Complete sets in albums.
Cavalleria Rusticana £4 0 0
La Traviata £5 15 0
I Pagliacci - - £4 2 0
Rigoletto £6 5 0
The Mikado £5 7 6
Merrie England £5 7 6
Your dealer will give you full details and record lists, or we will post them on
request.
His Masters Voice
Gramophone
Registered Trade-mark.
Send for the Special Illustrated
Brochure of 24 pages of
Operatic Records.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.,
163 Pitt Street Sydney.
I/IS MASTER’S VOICE,
Registered f Trade-mark.
IfLES
£
WY.
that are reliable and accurate.
We carry the finest range in Australia
sdf
“J marvel at the •price."
81. Steven’s Little Scout Single-
sliot Rifle, 22 calibre, ISin.. round steel
barrel; open rear and knife-edged front sights.
Weight, about 2Alb
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/3 ; other States, 2/2.)
226
as
"Simple and extra strong in construction
810. Winchester Single-shot Rifle, 1904 Model, for 22
short or long rim fire cartridges, 21in. heavy round steel barrel,
plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight: length of rifle
over all. 37Mn.; bead front sight, with patent alloyed tip,
which will not tarnish; weight, about 41b AfU
(Postage—N.S.W., 2;-; other States, 3. 8.) “r i
WE REPAIR ALL KINDS of
Guns, Rifles, Revolvers,
First-class Workmanship. Lowest Charges.
sd
“Suitable for small game and target shooting
R 5. Stevens’ Visible Loading Repeating
Rifle, 22 calibre; magazine holds 15 short, 13
long or 11 long rifle cartridges, mixed or separate; 20in. round barrel;
length over all, 35in.; weight 4ilb.; slide action, blade g? ,
front and screwrear sights Freight paid,
Owing to market fluctuations prices here quoted are subject to change
without notice.
fsd
'•Shoots with guaranteed accuracy."
BIS. W inchester Repeating Rifle, 1906
Model, 16-shot. 20in. round barrel, plain trigger,
straight grip, ladder rear sights, slide action, bandies 22
short, long or long rifle cartridges; weight, about sflb. ..
Freight paid,
95/
a
“EVER READY” PATENT
CIGARETTE MAKER
Simple and durable. Nothing to get out of order.
Full instructions with each one. pg}££ POST FREE
fsd
“A suitable weapon for the boy.’’
82. Stevens’ Marksman Rifle, 22 calibre. U.F.,
round barrel. 20in., chambered for long rifle cart-
ridges, case-hardened frame, oiled walnut stock, open
front and rear sights: weight. 41b
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
35/
fsd
One of the hardest-hitting 22 cal. rifles on the market.
839. Remington Automatic Hammerless
Rifle, Model 16A. 22 calibre, take-down action, length of barrel 22
inches. Magazine holds 15 cartridges. Weight silb _ _._ _
Freight paid,
Marble’s Waterproof Match-boxes.
Absolutely Water- and Moisture-proof.
Made of Seamless Drawn Brass, Heavily Nickelled.
Indispensable to the Outdoorsman. Post free,
3jl*
m
WS®
Til 4. Winchester Repeating Rifles, 1892
Model, 25/20-, .38-, 44-calibre, central fire, full or
half magazine, 24in. barrel; weight, about 71b.
With Round Darrel Freight paid, £.5/151-
With Octagon Barrel Freight paid, £6
816. Winchester Repeating Carbines, 1892 Model,
25/20-, 32-, 38- or 44-ealibres, central fire, full or half magazines
20in. round barrel, weight about ojlb Freight
55*5/10/-
lllvstrated Firearms and Sports List Post Free to any address.
1C
EUSTRALIriS GREATEST
SPORTS OUTFITTERS-
nm TOBACCONISTS
f
City Sports Depot
99 King St; also a/
Newcastle £ Brisbane


They Go Together—BEAUTY
and REXONA. Why not be a
Rexona Girl, too?
Rexona and Rexona Soap ensure that clear,
fresh skin and beautiful hair which go so
far to give any girl that natural charm and
beauty which is her rightful heritage.
To shampoo or wash the hair with Rexona
Soap is an easy task, but the results are
startling. It leaves the hair in such a
beautiful condition, the scalp perfectly clean
and wholesome. The hair becomes light and
fluffy, waving- about the face in abundance,
as beautiful hair should always appear.
Rexona Soap leaves a delicate perfume, in-
vigorating the roots of the hair, which pre-
vents greyness. A few shampoos with Rexona
Soap effectively remove every trace of dand-
ruff or loose and falling hair. Ladies who
use it for the hair say that Rexona Soap is
tar better than any of the so-called hair
tonics.
I have been using your Rexona and
Rexona Soap for some time, and think
the world of them. I am a real Rexona
Girl, and am sending you one of my
photographs. Never have I come
aeross anything so healing as Rexona,
and so good to use as a rub-down. I
am a fancy skater, and have used your
Rexona as a rub-down with the best
results.
Rexona Soap is simply lovely for the
skin and hair, and I am sure my com-
plexion reflects the use of same. I
use it constantly and am sure I can
never get along without it again.
Wishing Rexona every success,
I am, yours sincerely,
(Sgd.) BERYL NOVAK.
22 Trouton Street, Balmain.
fsdfds
MISS BERYL NOVAK, a charming Rexona girl.
(From a photo, by Sidney Riley.)
Get the Rexona
Habit.
A habit formed is hard
to break, iiud habits are
easily formed, but good
habits can be attained
almost as easily. The
Rexona habit results in
health and beauty, and
once formed will never be
broken.
There are two Rexona
habits—that of using
Rexona Ointment to heal
all injuries to the skin, and
the Rexona Soap habit,
which consists of keeping
oneself clean and pure witli
a delicately scented and
medicated soap. Rexona Ointment and
Rexona Soap mean skin health and
beauty, comfort to the user, and
immunity from disease. So form
the Rexona habit. Start with a 1 -
cake of Rexona Soap and a 1/6 pot
of Ointment. Soon you will be glad
to know that Rexona Soap is put up
in dainty boxes containing three
cakes each, and that Rexona Oint-
ment: is also sold in larger size tri-
angular pots, containing nearly four
times the quantity of the 1/6 size,
which are sold at 3/- each.
ft C..U
500H%,r*/»
/dnh».pht Otnfmunh\
Pur-ely an AfcloW#
m
-- %
V*** •»
b »d
rrm hi
«•*.»« BAT
SK»H & F*C l*C
S 3
Rexona
1/6 and 3/-
Rexona
Soap
l/=
MAXWELL TRUCKS.
fL». n
"’Til
THE Maxwell Motor Truck is not a converted pleasure
car. It is a real, scientifically-constructed 30cwt. truck,
built with proverbial Maxwell engineering precision to give
more ton miles per gallon of petrol, to run longer without repair,
to be easier in its wear and tear on tyres than any truck of similar
capacity made.
And all this without sacrificing in the least its ability to carry
its rated load through any ordinary kind of road condition. That
is why the Maxwell 30cwt. Motor Truck has met with such favor
with truck users in every land.
Magneto, Worm Drive, 10 foot loading space, Electric
Lights and Generator. Right or Left Hand Drive optional.
MAXWELL MOTOR CO., Inc.,
OF DETROIT, MICH.
John D. Williams & Company,
Export Distributors.
2 Rector Street, New York.
Cable Address: “Liandttm —New York,'
More miles per gallon.
More miles on tyres.
Messrs. Clutterbuck Bros. Ltd.
26-33 City Road, Sydney.
The Elusive Christ.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
A CHRIST with penetrating gaze,
A Man with eyes compassionate,
Has dogged me all my nights and daj s,
Remote, and inarticulate.
A shadow, this, a wraith-like Thing,
Born of my brain's imagining;
Yet stealthy feet beside me mark
A ceaseless tune down silent ways ;
And though my arms reach out to snare
The phantom form that follows there,
I hear His feet fade in the dark.
And grasp but empty air 1
Sometimes down city streets I see
Among the swarming populace,
A glimpse of Heaven’s mystery
Perhaps in one uplifted face—
In some poor creature pale and weak,
A touch of that for which I seek ;
The flame divine that flickers bright
’Mid hurrying humanity ;
Yet find beneath the outer shell
The stinking cesspools’ lurid swell;
Instead of clear celestial light.
The dregs of deepest hell!
Down paths of learning I have rushed,
Down echoing halls of argument,
A myriad master-minds have brushed,
Have found a God omnipotent,
Yet shuddered at the God I saw —
The potentate inspiring awe,
To Whom alike were love and hate ;
And fleeing backward, terror-crushed,
Eager to turn to and embrace
The Christ with sorrow-haunted face,
The Man with eyes compassionate,
Have found an empty space.
Sometimes in lanes with flowers set,
By river banks where shadows pass,
By stretching fields of violet,
I hear a rustle in the grass,
And find upon the breathless green
An imprint where two feet have been—
Faint-hollowed places, shadow drowned.
No wind walks in the grasses'; yet
When on the edge of joy I go
To clasp Him where the flowers blow,
I, kneeling low, clasp but the ground,
Hear but the river’s flow.
In eerie nights when all is still
I hear a voice swell out and toll,
Until it, brimming, seems to fill
Each crevice of my barren soul;
And stealing through the dark alone,
I glimpse a strange, black object thrown
A twisted cross —along the lawn.
A sign ! I stumble on until
I find but shadowed boughs wind-stirred ;
The heavenly voices that I heard.
Only the herald of the dawn.
The singing of a bird.
When I have lived life’s last long dav.
When I at length shall come to climb
The farthest hill and see the way
Swoop downwards past the mists of time.
Shall I in that dread moment wait
The Man with eyes compassionate.
The Christ with sorrow frozen breath?
Will He at last beside me stay?
Or on that farthest, shrouded hill
(My stretching arms unnoticed), will
He fade away, in lonely death.
Ah, Christ! elusive still?
VICTORXA.
MYRA MORRIS.
“Might and Right.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“TT’S a good turn the lady gets over.
But it’s worth only twelve quid to me.”
The young soprano looked her in-
dignation, and her “acting partner.” a violin-
ist of the bony, sensitive type, glanced ner-
vously from manager to vocalist, and then
gave himself whole-heartedly to an optical
tour of the room. Finding that she was ex-
pected to either accept or refuse the offer,
the lady ventured : “Twelve pounds each or
together?”
The manager, laughing, swung back on
his chair, the gold in his teeth making a
crescent moon of the wide mouth.
“Say, are you joking? We only pay
twenty-four the double for real acts from
America. I like your act, as I told you, but
this firm can survive without it. So twelve
or nothin’.”
To show that this was final he brought his
chair down with a thud and found among the
papers on his desk some that would not
wait. Ten important documents were de-
voured, digested and despatched. Much ring-
ing up of a ’phone, and peremptory orders
to the wretched little typist; and the fair,
lean book-keeper was interviewed over a slight
m.s ake and told not to let it occur again.
And all this managerial energy expended but
to show two wretched artists how little they
were on the earth, and just how important a
theatrical manager can be.
The violinist: "I tink you bedder dell ’im
ve agzepL”.
"The money is -insufficient.”
"Better don nodding.”
"You Polish worm! You’d sell your soul
for fourpence and then make money.”
Coolly impersonal, managerial eyes met
and held her stormy ones.
“Er, were you speaking to me?”
“No; I was wasting breath on this,’’ con-
temptuously indicating the foreigner. "I
think you managers are beastly hard on
local people—because you have the monopoly.
Lm selling my voice dirt-cheap, but I accept.
You see, I have no alternative.”
The manager became all smiles, all bland
good humor again.
“W ell, well, good business, good business!
111 be placing you at once, you see; er—-
we have a vacancy on this week’s bill.”
Remembering that in a previous conversa-
tion he had assured them that the firm could
not place the acts already in hand, he looked
a little uncomfortable, but presently resumed
in an easy, happy voice: “Now what about
your billing ? What’s your name, little
girl?”
A fat, moist managerial hand caressed his
chin.
“Marcella Helena Troy.”
“Marseller Hel —why, of course, I’ve heard
of you, Helena Troy! Weren’t you on the
provincial circuit?”
“N—oo.”
"I’ve heard the name somewhere. Like
Marseller better. What about Marseller and
Domunski, Great Society Entertainers’ —
sounds good, don’t it? And a word of warn-
ing—don’t play anything too long or boring,
see? Our audiences are honest and don’t
pretend to like what they think ought to be
good for ’em. This is not the Conserva-
torium.”
The following night Marcella opened the
act in a flood of golden light that revealed
to her every face in the audience. In the
front row of the stalls sat two fat women in
thin blouses. Marcella, singing on, won-
dered at their choice of color, while they
found great cause for amusement in her
singing, went into hysterics over her frock,
and ate peanuts.
“My little Isle d’Amour,
One little Isle, to be snre,”
sang Marcella while two drunken soldiers
were being forcibly ejected from the “gods.”
“Still love can’t die.
’Xeath its blue sky.”
A small child screamed. Its mother shoved
a dummy in its mouth. It screamed again.
"My little Isle d’Amour,
N'o one can know, dear,
That I love you so, dear,
On our little Isle d’Amour.”
A large nigger grinned up at her, his eyes
burning red in his head, like coals in a grate.
The song over, the singer stood in the
wings while her partner entertained the
mixed audience. But Marcella had a little
business with the electrician.
“That was not a flood, it was a deluge.
Those blousy women, that vile nigger ! Next
time give me a black-out and a spot.”
Meanwhile Domunski, with the natural
vanity of the instrumentalist desiring to
show all his goods, played even the nigger
into something like apathy, and when Mar-
cella joined him in the finale the audience
was already clamoring for the next act —
a man dressed as a frog, who hideously con-
torted himself to the great delight of the
mob.
When Marcella and Domunski, the Great
Society Entertainers, came off the stage, Mr.
Manager was waiting.
“The makings of a good act, but you die
at the finish. Think of something exciting
for your close before next week.” There was
a menace in that last sentence, and Marcella
felt it.
A stentorian voice greeted her at the
dressing-room door. “Come in and shut
that door, Eleanor Jane. I’m all goose-
fleshy.” An absurd figure in tights was
struggling into a garment as trivial as a
lampshade. “I guess you’re the new act,
hum? Well, my name’s Marie, see? An’
we’ll be good pals s’long' as you don’t
splather the stage-white all over as you dona,
see?”
Marcella humbly apologised for the state
of the carpet.
“Workin’ team or single?” The ques-
tion came like a shot from a gun.
“O—oh—er—that is, I have a partner.”
“Knock yer about?”
“He’s a perfect stranger to me,” said
Marcella hotly; at which Marie laughed:
“Well, he won’t be for long—not in this
business. Like me eyebrows? I put ’em
on. They all shave ’em in the States. The
pencil’s better’ll nature.”
Throughout the week Marcella’s act was
always the same —a brilliant beginning, a
dreary middle and a dismal close, and with
the week-end came despair. “Something
must be done,” she said to Marie. “That
fool Domunski is so perfectly self-satisfied.
‘lt is ze vulgar public,’ he says. In vain
I argue that an empty stomach and no little
bed of nights is more vulgar. ‘No.’ he says,
‘I am ze artist.’ ”
“Why don’t you knock him?” Marie
viciously poked at the cosmetic in her eye.
“Knock him? How do you mean?” asked
the mystified Marcella.
“Punch into him. Show him who’s mas-
ter. We all beat our partners. It does
’em good.”
Marcella thought over this, but presently
dismissed it as impracticable.
Next day, on going to draw her salary,
she was told “Mr. Domunski drew full
money,” and her ideas somehow changed.
War. scarlet war. was in her soul. “I will
wait,” she said, “and if lie does not bring
my money” Her right arm curled upward
until the muscle gained by piano-playing
bulged.
“Draw your sal., dearie?” asked Marie
that night in the dressing-room.
“No,” said Marcella moodily. “And we
haven't found a finish to the act yet. And
I can see our finish to-morrow.”
Marie arose and stood at the back of Mar-
cella’s chair, and her manner was not nice.
“Did that foreign pomegranate balance
you for your salary, Eleanor Jane?”
Marcella did not answer, but her head
sank lower.
Marie seized and shook her. “Did he?
Did he?”
Marcella nodded a weak assent.
“And d’ye mean to say a friend of mine
hasn’t enough pluck to smash him for it?”
Marie’s voice ascended chromatically, and
Marcella’s sobbed the down scale. “And
you’re howlin’, you boob! You’re howlin’!
An Australian done by a furriner! My
Gawd ! Done by a furriner !”
Marie paced the room excitedly; then
pausing, as though struck by an idea, she
approached and placed a bony, comforting
arm around Marcella.
“Now. Marcel, old girl, pull yourself to-
gether, an’ smash him before he cooks you
to a turn. If you want a rehearsal I’ll call
in Bill and illustrate.”
Marie ran to the door and called up the
passage:
(Continued on next pagg.)


A MAN IS AS STRONC AS HIS BACK.
A Man can only do as much work as his back will stand.
Once the back gives out he must lay down his tools.
But that is not all, for Backache tells of sick kidneys. Other unmistakable signs are dizziness,
stiffness of the limbs, sick headache and sleeplessness. Before long the patient grows nervous,
short tempered and depressed; the eyes become heavy and sunken, with swellings beneath
them, and the color flies from the cheeks. There is danger of
serious kidney disease, rheumatism and dropsy. The liquid poison
which causes kidney troubles is driven from the body quickly
and thoroughly by the genuine Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. This
great medicine will strengthen your back by relieving and toning
up the kidneys.
'%d%
m
a
fra
A
“Every Picture
Tells a Story.’
A WOMAN’S CASE.
Mrs. H. McAuliffe. 392 New Canterbury
Road, Dulwich Hill, Sydney, says: “For a
good while I was almost crippled with back-
ache. the ailment being caused by the im-
proper action of my kidneys. Other symp-
toms present, that clearly showed these
organs were in a bad way, were a constant
tiredness, dropsical swellings, and disordered
secretions. My back was very painful, and
I used to feel so bad at times that I dare
not move, and had to lie up—it was the only
way I got a little relief. At night my rest
was broken, and during the day I felt tired
and worn out.
“At last I decided to take a course of
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and as they
cured me I am only too pleased to pass the
word on to other sufferers. Seven bottles of
these Pills banished my health troubles, and
I now feel Al.”
Four years later Mrs. McAuliffe says:
“Mv cure still holds good, no sign of kidney
trouble having returned since I took Doan's
Backache Kidney Pills some time ago.”
Testimony
from
two
Sydney
Residents.
A MAN'S CASE.
Mr. Lewis Williams. 602 Botany Road,
Botany, Sydney, says: “I was a great suf-
ferer with my back, and the pain was at
times so bad that I have had to leave my
work and go home. I also had to walk
about in a bent position, and could not
straighten without increased suffering. I
used various preparations, but only got
slight relief. Reading of cures effected by
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, I decided m
try them. One bottle eased the pain and
the second completed my cure. This did
not happen yesterday, but about seven years
ago, and I have had no sign of backache all
that time, so it is not mere temporary re-
lief, but a perfect cure. I am always
advising my friends to use Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills, and take this opportunity to
publicly recommend them.”
Nine years later Mrs. Williams says: “Mv
husband is still well, and has been free of
backache since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
cured him 16 years ago.”
sfdf
sdf
Backach
Kidney
ds
Price 2/5) per bottle, at
all Chemists and Stores,
or post free from Foster-
McClellan Co., 15 Hamil-
ton Street, Sydney.
“Billie, Billie —-Billie deah !”
A besotted voice answered wearily, “Alri\
dear. Cornin’!”
Marie rolled her sleeves to the elbow.
“Now, Marcel, watch me, girl. Watch
me! ’E’s drunk, so there’s an excuse for
what he’s goin’ to get."
The unsuspecting Billie lurched into the
room wearing the smile of one at peace with
the world, and was met by a tigerish Marie,
who bore down and circled round him.
seized his collar iu both hands, and said rude
words in his astonished face. "Drunk a gen,
eh? Drunk agen, and you expect the adt
to get over to-night? You don't want it to
get over; ye’re jealous of me! Say some-
thin’, say somethin’.”'
Clanping both hands on his shoulders she
turned him around roughly, and with an
aside "Now watch, Marcel,” she proceeded
to initiate that young lady into the art of
“smashing a man.” Beginning by slapping
his face, she tore at his back hair, and when
he turned his bead to seize the hand that
threatened to completely unfeather him, she
punched at his chest with her free one. She
got in some fine work pommelling him a;
close quarters, and then stood off to deliver
the coup de grace. The scared partner fled.
Marcella was too fascinated to feel one
pang of pity. “Why, it’s positively scien-
tific !” she exclaimed.
“Scientific nothing !” gasped Mario. “But
it's mighty satisfying.”
Marcel left the scene of combat to again
plead for her pay. and after mounting the
two flights of stairs to the stage, and half-
heartedly singing three verses of a song that
called to an unknown darling to “come,
beloved, come,*’ she stood in the wings and
watched her greasy partner. Her mind re-
verted to the scene in the dressing-room
downstairs—to Marie" proving the right of
might to the forlorn Billie; and great
strength came suddenly to Marcella Troy.
She realised that there is something in a
name, after all. Domunski was on the
finish of his solo, and Marcella must join
him for the finale. Inspired by a vision of
the purloined salary, followed by another
vision of Marie meting out punishment.
Marcella, with the gait of a Goddess of
Vengeance, strode the stage, and, pouncing
on Domunski, shook him vigorously back
and forward. “You Conceited bundle of
{esthetic nothingness,” she hissed, “so you
would rob me, would you? Take this!”
She snatched the bow from his hands and
threw it at the drummer, who grinned de-
lightedly. “You'll bore the audience, kill the
act, will you. and bag my pay? Take that!”
She captured his fiddle and belabored him
with it, and he sank to his knees scream-
ing for mercy.
“And call yourself a Pole !” She grasped
a handful of his hair. “You long-haired,
girlified son of a Kaiser!” There followed
three more bangs of the fiddle on the neck
of the fiddler before Marcella made her
exit with the dignity of a Queen of Sheba.
Her partner followed her, crawling abjectlv
on hands and knees like a little dog.
Then the house rose to a man and howled
and hugged itself, and Marcella was recalled
again and again. For reasons of his own.
her partner did not take the call.
After the final curtain a delighted manager
congratulated her. “You sure have found
some exciting finish. Miss Marcella. The
cleverest bit of comedy seen in voordeyville
for years. The smashing of the trick violin
was great, and your partner’s natural acting
—splendid—splendid !”
"Double salary?"
“Certainly the new act's worth it. But
we must change the billing. What new
name do you suggest —what? ‘Might and
Right’? Capital, my dear, capital!”
VERONICA BEDFORD.
Black Magic.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
WILLIS was oue of the Torres Strait
shellers who had never sought joy
in Japtown. It was just that the
mousmee did not appeal to him. In fact, he
felt the whole-souled contempt for pre-nuptial
lapses that most clean young Australians do.
So Yokohama, the Japanese settlement at
the end of the island, knew him not. In the
interludes between running the True Blue
pearling fleet better than most fleets in
Broome or Torres Strait he played good
cricket and took the nursing sisters home to
the hospital after tennis on the Palm court.
He danced with them and the shellers’ wives’
cousins, sang good songs in a tine golden
baritone, and played bridge in the evenings.
And so for many moons.
Word came to Willis one day on the tennis-
court that the Lokohu, the best and fastest
lugger in his fleet, was round at the back of
the island. Now, the Lokohu, with Youe-
matsu. his number-one diver, in charge, had
pushed off for the Old Grounds a week
before, and by all the laws of shelling should
have been out for three months. Willis hung
up his racquet, and went round to where the
Lokohu lay with her nose buried deep in the
mangrove mud. The diver and his tender
were away—so said the crew of little black
Kiwai boys to whom Willis talked vehe-
mently ere he made for the historic house of
Oya Sami, with its several lovely ladies.
There he found Youematsu wrapped in a
gorgeous black and silver liouri, with a coat-
of-arms woven in white on' the left shoulder,
partaking of O'Cha. the ceremonious tea.
with his pro tern, lady-love, the while . a
second mousmee sang songs of Old Japan in
a high, nasal sing-song to the stringed twang-
twang of a samisen. Willis knocked over
the liand-stitched screen and took Youematsu,
his number-one diver, by the beautifully-
folded neckband of his court kimono, and
drove him with hurried steps and quaint
little leaps to the back of the island, and
aboard the Lokohu. On the beach he
stayed till he saw them up anchor and sail
out into the sunset track that leads to the
Old Grounds.
A few nights later the Artillery folk gave
a picnic at the big-gun emplacement that
overlooks Japantown. Willis, enjoying a
quiet cigar, was looking through the rose-
gold mists of the tropic night across the
47 blues of Torres Strait to where the Outer
Isles rose un in topaz-amber—looking and
wondering whether there were any shell-
patches he did not know —when out of the
silence came the stilted sixths of a samisen.
Carelessly he wondered if it were the same
girl who had gently put down her samisen and
sat back with folded hands whilst lie routed
Youematsu and drove him back to his lugger
with long steps and foolish little leaps.
This was the coming of the magic.
Next morning, instead of going by the
beach track as usual, he went through Yoko-
hama on his way to inspect the Puli-uli lug-
gers that snuggled their noses in the sands
off the end boatslip. There ou the wide
verandah of Ova's historic house, squatting
on her heels, was the samisen player. Umi
San her name: ivory faced, impassive, ex-
otic, with long amber eyes, hair black and
shiny as a riflehird's wing, and her little
wooden figure folded in a dove-grey brocaded
kimono, its flowing sleeves turned in with
apricot: Hie obi of imperial purple held by
an apple-green cord. She smiled.
And soon his cricket and evening haunts
knew him no more.
He built Umi Sail a house at the end of
the island, and spent with her the hours
when not in his office or grading shell aboard
the schooner —this little, wooden, ivory-faced
exotic, who sat twanging her samisen inter-
minably, or gazing wide-eyed into space.
Black magic it was—black magic that
made Willis, who played good cricket and
had a fine singing voice of his own. lie for
hours on a mat at her feet listening to her
caterwauling.
People talked, and word of it crept south
to his directors. Willis was called to Syd-
ney for a trifle that could have been arranged
by letter.
Whilst he was away the good padre who
had spoken with Willis of this sinning went
to Mayshiba, chief of the Japanese Club and
a gentleman, and together they conversed
long and gravely; the upshot of their con-
clave being that Umi San was “returned” to
Nagasaki, sans ceremony. Willis came back
to find her gone, and a stolid “No savee”
from Oya. Gradually lie found himself, and
returned to his own.
And so for twelve moons.
Unfortunate it was that, when. Nogoro
Narita, the new diver for the Banzai fleet,
came across from the Aroe Islands lie brought
with him a wife. And that she should be
Umi San. Nogoro drank rum and beat her.
She crept, crying softly, to Willis one night
and besought him to take her to Syd-a-nee.
And the black magic had him again.
Not so long later Willis, and Umi San
with her saihisen. and old Ignacio Madrigal,
his Filipino “boy” who loved him, and a crew
of little black Kiwais set sail one moonlight
night for the line of Outer Isles. Off the
seven wrecks the wind dropped, and their
lugger, the Santa Cruz, hung like a litho-
graph over the sunken reefs. An hour to
dawn a little, wide, battered dinghy, with two
Japanese rowing, crept quiet as a cat out of
the drab mists towards them. One of the men
stood up and softly hailed old Ignacio lying
rolled in his red blanket in the stern. Ignacio
hated all Japanese with an Orient hate. But
he answered, and they conferred together in
long whispers and subtle silences.
“Why kill the Tuan?” reasoned Ignacio.
"By such doing his people will rise up
and drive out all the colored men. Here
they earn good moneys.” Such talk the
Japanese agreed was wisdom.
Then Ignacio, who loved Willis, went to
the store-chest and took out a length of rope
and two bottles of trade rum. and handed
them over the rail. Then to the medicine-
chest. where he knew the chloroform was.
He was very wise about this sleep-drug. Ibid
he not helped to hold Alessandro when the
doctor at the Shellers’ Hospital cut off his
arm that the shark had mauled?
Quietly cunning, he crept to the bunk
where Willis slept like a child, all smiling,
and held a rag saturated with the sleep stuff
a little above his master’s mouth.
When the master was well asleep the
Japanese came aboard. Nogoro Narita. her
husband, beat Umi San badly, and rolled her
in a blanket, and tied it tightly at both
ends, and threw the squirming bundle into
the dinghy. Ignacio Madrigal, who loved
Willis, gave them another bottle of rum.
Almost too drunk to stand, they, according
to their conferring, tied Ignacio Madrigal to
ilie mast with a rope in many knots. The
Kiwais slept the sleep of swine.
Nogoro Narita, its husband, struck the
little twisting bundle, tied at both ends,
lying in the bottom of the battered old dinghy
—struck it with the flat of his broken paddle
again and again. When it cried out he and
his cousin Meomatsn were convulsed with
mirth as-they pulled into the passage way.
A little too far. Just a trifle too far. The
tide-rip caught them broadside on. swirled
the dinghy round, and sucked it under.
Two years on, the pearling fields -lying
sheltered from the nor’-west monsoon under
the lee of Douan foregathered and made a
merry Cbristmasing. Willis., who once more
had found himself, sang goodwill songs, and
danced with the shellers’ wives’ sisters. (The
shellers’ wives themselves were glad, like the
dear souls they are. that so nice a man and
so eligible had really settled down.)
And yet, on Christmas eve. as he left the
flagship schooner, a tiny hand that: may have
been a shark’s fin beckoned to him from the
sea : and a high-pitched little voice that may
have'been a seabird’s seemed to call.
They found Willis two days afterwards.
S. S. SEVERN.


y flp.f iffiwsSsaWk'&ZMsfgSm&iL.:- ;
|w ?
& Jgflf%Ms i ? %
*g jemQgmUFfc jMV 2
P Jf
| #
- B i
4 IS
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
IHE WESTINGHUUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Feathereton Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
t Your First Shave
,<,oro
lii ATE;
Begin shaving with a Colgate’s
" Handy Grip ” of your own.
Your dad will tell you this is
the right soap to make smooth,
creamy, soothing lather and
help you to a comfortable shave
without any after-smarting.
You will like the "Handy Grip”
as. well as you have always liked
the Ribbon Dental Cream—and
will never wish to be without either.
f
THE GOOD OLD “PLUM”
The good old “Plum” Razor has been before the
Australian Public for years, and its keenly-tempered
edge has preserved the friendship of every Shaver
who has made its acquaintance.
THE “PLUM” RAZOR.
PRICE 10/6—POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/C.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
Tbe above makes a handsome present.
“Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/2 Tube, post free.
All the above Post Free. Send for our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKIN,
654 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
/established over 30 years.
Tried and Trusted—
The “ PLUM ”
Razor.
WNBV
MOTOR LORRIES
\\
JO
HZ
Economy and Convenience Paramount.
SPACE is too meagre to enumerate each
single point the designers of Denby lorries
figured out scientifically for economy and
convenience to the user. Simple statements of
Denby merits might seem like egotism.
We prefer to let the user speak its praises. Detail
specification in our catalog will impress upon you the reasons for
the Denby’s popularity.
Load capacities: 1,2,
DENBY MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY.
Export Department, Singer Building, New York, U.S.A.
Cable Address: “Dentrux.”
Tie iYedicine for Yon
must possess certain advantages without which it would hardly commend
itself to your confidence. It must be perfectly safe under all circumstances.
It must be mild in its action but none the less efficacious on that account.
It must be, par excellence, a family medicine, that is, suitable for
old and young of both sexes and be freely obtainable in town or
country. It must be easy to take, regular and reliable in its curative
effects and possess a great and genuine record of success. Such a
medicine is Beeeham’s Pills which still hold', and will continue to hold,
the highest position in popular favour. It is very interesting, after so
many years service, still to find Beecham’s Pills “at the top of the
tree ” among digestive remedies. They aru everywhere acknowledged
to be unrivalled in the treatment of such troubles as biliousness, sick
headache, heartburn, constipation, giddiness, failing appetite, poorness
of blood and a general run-down condition. If you are in any way a
sufferer from digestive ailments take
Bcecham’s fill;
BEECHAM'S PILLS are specially suitable for females of all ages*
Sold iu boxes, labelled price (36 pills), 1/1$ (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills
Rare you
uptureD
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one TIIA-T
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to ns, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never- mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW: it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chatting leather
understraps. The pad is made oi soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE vet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRTAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE. COMFORT and SECURITY
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
TAN KS
When we speak of a tank we picture a huge
cumbersome box of machinery bristling with
guns. Yet Carter’s Little
Liver Pills, one of the
smallest and most success-
ful pill in the world,
can be compared to
tanks in action, for
they surely and
gently touch the
Liver, '•u ri n g
Bilious Headache,
Constipation, etc.,
just as tanks sur-
mount obstacles and clear trenches of the
enemy. Iry them to-day, youf'-chemist has
them. Good for man, woman and child.
Small PHI— Small Dose-Small Price.
GENUINE must' -
bear signature
CARTERS
ITTLE
SVER
PILLS
SHOTGUN CARTRIDGES
Hullit
I
m
dsf
'T'HE judgment of veteran shooters, men who
know by their own practical experience, is that
Remington UMC Shot Gun Cartridges embody all
of the essential qualities that make for satisfactory
service. They are supplied in four trade names—
NEW CLUB REMINGTON
NITRO CLUB ARROW
These four standard brands cover the
entire range of shot gun cartridges.
For further particulars enquire of your
dealer or send for special descriptive
catalogue.
[INGTON ARMS UMC
COMPANY
D. D. BRYANT
Australian Manager
Box 686, G. P. O
k Melbourne
Ik.
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation In Australia.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, soma
after suffering over 40 years, also a wonderful
Cure for Rheumatism.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propiv
PRICE 3/3 per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l/2A-. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout' the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
:rainer
*" Post Free
>nds in Use.
( Patented )
M
10
dsf
With Full Particulars
and Illustrated Circular.
sd
The simplicity, lightness and excellence of the
Dreadnought is fully maintained.
Titan Manufacturing Company,
Norman by Road , SOUTH MELBOURNE .


MANGROVIT
LEATHER
BELTING
Minimises Power
Leakage
because of its steady frictional grip on
the pulleys. It answers the require-
ments of the most difficult drives and
ensures maximum production because it
sticks to the job. Try it on your power
plant.
Mangrovite Belting Ltd.
(Charles Ludowicf, Managing Director),
49 York St. (Wynyard Square), Sydney, N.S.W.
Western Australia: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Perth
S’th Australia: John Reid & Sons Ltd., Adelaide
Victoria and Tasmania: Wm. Crosby & Co.,
Melbourne.
DEALING IN CERTAINTIES.
There’s nothing like having a thing well done. For this very reason fit
your Machine with
An “Eagle on a Globe’’ Chaffcutter Knives
They take and hold a keen edge, cut better and quicker,
and effect all-round savings.
Made ii/all sizes for Buncle, Richmond & Chandler, Rental!,
and Cliff and Bunting machines.
For prompt attention, address all enquiries to Desk A.
THE EAGLE & GLOBE STEEL CO. LTD.,
Makers of Ultra Capital High-Speed Steel,
379-381 Kent St., SYDNEY.
264 Latrobe St, Melbourne.
46 Boulder Rd., Kalgoorlle.
Cliff St., Fremantle.
John Reid & Nephews,
Brisbane.
Charles Atkins & Co. Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Paul & Cray Ltd., Newcastle.
fd
sf
sdf
d
s
f
Chemicals?
We always have large stocks on hand and our
prices are absolutely the lowest. Our stocks
include:—
Soda-Ash, Caustic Soda, Chloride of
Calcium, Sulphide of Sodium, Chloride
of Ammonium, Napthaline, Carbolic
Acid (98% pale straw), Bichromate
Soda and Potash, French Chalk, Dex-
trine, Aniline Dyes, Hematine and
Fustic Extracts. Barge quantities of
Whale, Cod and Herring Oil always oh
hand.
Write for prices and particulars NOW.
JAMES HARDIF. &, CO. LTD.,
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. Wynyard & York Sts., SYDNEY.
’Phone 8456 (6 Lines).
581-3 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
30 Currie Street, Adelaide.
WE ARE NOTED FOR THE EXCELLENCE OF OUR SERVICE IN CATERING FOR MOTOR MECHANICS.
WE SPECIALISE IN CERTAIN LINES, AND HAVE SUCH CONFIDENCE IN OUR GOODS THAT WE GUARANTEE THEM.
sf
sdf
“SWAN” Phosphor Bronze
IS AN EXAMPLE.
This lusty juvenile was born during the stress of war. In its swaddling days it was put to the severest tests and emerged triumphant.
In fact, so favorably has it become known that many experienced Garage Men use nothing else hut
SWAN BRAND BRONZE.
Use it and you will be pleased with the result.
It is CLOSE- and EVEN-GRAINED and TOUGH, and on being machined yields a harvest of long, curly, wire-like scrap, which betokens to the wise fitter
that the resultant fitting will wear LONG and faithfully.
WE guarantee: every stick. Your inquiries for this and these Other lines courteously solicited.
PISTON RING CASTINGS.
VALVE FORGINGS.
STEEL BALL JOINTS.
STEEL YOKE ENDS.
STEEL MAGNETO COUPLINGS.
GREASE CAPS.
LUBRICATORS.
PETROL UNIONS.
PETROL COCKS.
CARBURETTER FRANCES,
AND ALE MOTOR ACCESSORIES
C. Swan &
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
The House for Motor Engineers’ Supplies.
sd
“STAR” Portable Lampless Oil Engines,
These Big-powered Engines are now becoming immensely popular for general Farm and Station work, such as
Woodcutting, Shearing, Chaffcutting, Pumping, etc,, and each Engine supplied by us means another well-satisfied
client.
fsd
fsd
Te can arrange easy
3, and guarantee satisfaction in every instance.
DALGETY <SL CO. LTD., Miller’s Point, SYDNEY.
Agents for TANCYES, CLAYTON & SHUTTLEWORTH, WOLSELEY Shearing Machines, TRIUMPH Oil Engines, QANE Milking Machines, etc.
THE
Sheep Shearing'
Machines.
r>
urn
ii
f
The universal popularity of the Wolseley Sheep Shearing: Machines is due to their
having proved in practical and competitive tests to be the most efficient in the world.
They are the most profitable investment for the pastoralist.
Enquire through nearest branch.
DALGETY fSL CO. LTD., Australasian Agents: AO Branches.
%ii%\
sdf
DODGE ROCKBREAKERS
With Manganese Steel Jaw Plates
We are now manufacturing these machines locally (with the exception of the Jaw
Plates), where formerly they were imported from America.
Experience has enabled us to improve the design, and, where a fine and uniform product
is required, such as to CRUSHING ROLLS, HUNTINGTON MILLS, &c., they are unequalled.
Four Sizes carried in Stock. Capacity I—l 21 —12 Tons per hour.
Larger Sizes to Order. Write for Full Descriptive Circular.
PARKED LACY CO. LTD.
Engineers & Machinery Merchants,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
LEACHING OF LOW-GRADE ORES.
The Counter Current Decantation System with a Dorr ,?
Machinery is giving remarkable results in all parts of the
world, and has revolutionised the treatment of low-grade
propositions which could not be handled by any other system.
We are the sole agents for the Dorr Co. in Australasia, and we manufacture
all machinery required. Our files and special knowledge will be placed at the
disposal of clients.
Correspondence invited from metallurgists and mine managers interested.
DORR PATENT CLASSIFIER.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.,
Mining & Electrical
Engineers,
350 George Street, Sydney.
