

DJfcS'W —The Spirit of Contentment.
3E2,. a. 'WjSLTiEgLEM'S «SC- CSO-,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOB— . .
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE
MONEY
A'M
■im:
im
X:
EASY
ON
S'-
TERMS
W
■'vK'vWW'
OH ALL CLASSES OF SECURITY
WITHOUT POSSESSION.
NSW MONT de PIETE
D $ I C9T LIMITED.
74- Castlereagh St.74.Sydney
CAPITAL &200.000 ‘Phone City 9325
firanc/>es 29 Kmc 5t., Newcastle. NS W - ?\b 17 Swakston Si Meld Vic
40 Adelaide St .Bnsbane.O-186 Castlereagh Sr.fS9 George St. West, Sydney.
Eustace* Jtejinet*. Gmejr&J Sfanaores*.
t
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: ‘‘The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not be laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete E. and I. Co. Ltd.”
"CHROMOL'
(Trade Marie)
The Super Driving Belt.
The largest mining and smelt-
ing plants use “Chroniol,” because
of its proven superiority over all
other Belting.
Sole Makers:
J.C.Ludowici£SonLtd.
Pioneer Leather Belting Works,
117 York Street, Sydney
Pioneers and Leaders since 1858.
THE BEST !
n
m
V
u
u
VMMm
vs
m
S)
n
n
m
C 2.
i?d
.JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly 'nutritious and invigorating for tbo
digestive organa-
CCEEsCh
unftet
*>, INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals,
1
m
“ Not the same as others. "
Superior Factory Roofing.
Builders of modern factories find that the safest, most reliable,
most lasting and most thoroughly suitable roofing is Malthoid.
There is nothing to equal it, either, as a clean, healthful,
hard wearing floor covering.
Write at once for actual samples and illustrated booklet, post free.
The Paraffine Companies Inc. (F. M. Princa, Austraias an Manage -). Chains House, Sydney.
A new and revised edition of the
“Referee" is now available,
and will be sent post free on
application to
JOHN LYSAGHT (Australia) LIMITED
8 Spring Street, SYDNEY.
the recognised standard
of quality throughout
the Commonwealth..
BL WHISKY (Bulloch Lade)
OR ME, KEIGWIN ©. CO. LTD,. SYONET Soim Ag«-t9.
Special Metals for Engineers.
Australian Made. Immediate Delivery. Quality Guaranteed.
“ I )ROPELLOR” Brand Brass, Muntz Metal, Manganese Bronze
l and Copper in round, flat, square and hexagon sections.
Also Commutator and Busbar Sections for electrical work. All
trade sizes at lowest prices. Write for quotations.
►NEY) LTD,, 115 Clarence Street, Sydney.
(MELBOURNE) PTY., LTD., 499-531 Kourke Street, Melbourne; and Barling Building,
SELLING AGENTS » CH AS. E. BERN AYS, 125 Adelaide Street, Brisbane; and GEO. KENT LTD., Perth.
pleasant and
a TRUE ANTISEPTIC
TOOTH PASTE.
AUSTRALIA'S BEST.
The Bulletin
Vof. 40.—N0. 2053.]
[Thursday, June 19, 1919.
PRICE 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


.A.
■w"
itisti
THe
LIGHT CAR
A proved Light Car for the
Send your
for early delivery of post-war
n
VL
m
Sat!
X
WM
■
wm
». PHIZACKERLEY,
160-171 Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY.
Standard Motor CO.,
m
m
ifiihd.
/.
m a
W
moment
m
/
>!
m
m.
•■.Vi
•m\ /
%
Simply raise this little
lever, immerse nib in
ink, lower lever and
the pen is filled. It’s
THE POCKET
SELF-FILLING
Watennaris(fle3)FountainPen
In this type of the World’s Best Fountain Pen is a self-filling device
which is far and away better than anything previously invented. Like ,
the other parts of this perfect pen, it is too simple to get out of order.
Waterman's Ideals are made in three types ; Of Stationers and
“ Pocket Seif-Filling,” “Safety,” and “Regular.” Jewellers eve >y where. '
L. a. SLOAN, Ltd., OjePeilCoriter London, England.
Australia : Harold D. Dixon, IQo, Clarence Street. Sydney.
//!.
/?
A'"/
V/
7/1 \W
j?aoft as a Peach*
1 and fragrant as a flower, ll O
imparts a delicate bloom to the Complexion *»
TETLQW’S
s
FACE POWDER
SoW in Ffv# Tints.—
White. Cream. Pink. Flesh and Broaetin
by all Stores, Chemists and Perfumers.
PER
0
•*!
O i
I - *. PKK /'(X
V # English 71d. Price />* **}
4 *o * «* ?
1 [
v«?v a
t
Wholesale Dislriouting Asenls:-r.
Messrs. ELLIOTT BUGS.. LTD.,
Sydney.
Messrs. WASHINGTON H. SOUL,
PATTINSON & CO., Sydney.
Messrs. ANTHONY HORDERN AND
SONS LTD., Sydney.
THE AUSTRALIAN ' DRUG CO.,
Sydney.
lonoon wholesale ASEnrs;
HENRY C, QUELCH & CO*
4&. 5. Ludgate 3q.. London Eng.
For Sick Headache
Many people suffer at regular
intervals from sick headache. The
trouble is caused by accumlation
of poison in the digestive organs
and this poison produces nausea
and the headache follows.
These distressing attacks may
be avoided. Pinkettes are dainty
little sugar-coated ovals that act so
gently that they are the ideal laxa-
tive to use in correcting a tendency
to sick headache. They have no
unpleasant effect to make them
objectionable to the extra-sensitive
sick headache patient. Old fash-
ioned harsh purgatives will net do
at all in such cases.
1/- per bottle at all dealers.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “The Bulletin.'
J
le Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
ALjL AUiSTiiAijiAjNb visiting uuuaou
should road the British Austral-
asian, Ud. weekly —an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Austkalasian
Heading Koom at the Offices, 115 High Hol-
born. London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use tha
telephone, and obtain information withont
/»Yl«vr<vn
Hudson’s “Eumenthol Jujubes”
are the most powerful, safe and pleasant Germicide
and Antiseptic known. Beipg f destructive to all
organ isims which give rise to infectious diseases,
they keep the mouth in a sweet, healthy condition.
Suited for Old and Young.
Unlike cough medicines HUDSON'S EUMENTIIOL
JUJUBES do not interfere with the digestion; on
the contrary, they have a beneficial effect, as their
Antiseptic Properties prevent abnormal fermenta-
tion of the food, and thus prove helpful to sufferers
from Indigestion and Dyspepsia if taken after food.
Sold everywhere, in Tins, Price 1/6. [1
FOR COUGHS, COLDS, SORB THROATS, BRON-
CHITIS, INFLUENZA AND THE PREVENTION
OF CONSUMPTION.
A. The Larynx or
Or sail of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
C. The Bronchial
Tubes of a Dis-
sected Lung.
D. The Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
The Red Page
The Tragedy of Oscar Wilde
A small literatui-e has sprung from the
grave of Wilde’s reputation. It includes
the record of a noble friendship by Robert
Ross, and it has recently received from
America one of the most remarkable bio-
graphies in English. Oscar Wilde, his Life
and Confessions, by Frank Harris, was first
published in New York in I9IG. It has
since been considerably enlarged, and the
new edition is the first, so far as we know,
to reach this country, for during the war
an embargo was placed on Frank Harris’s
publications. The one-time editor of the
Fortnightly and the Saturday Review’
had never liked the English for their hypo-
crisy, their snobbery and their legalised in-
justices. It was he who deduced the man
Shakspeare from the Plays and Poems and
found him to be bibulous and licentious—an
assumption, certainly, but one that was suf-
ficiently life-like to horrify all the Shak-
speare societies of the United Kingdom and
. Wilde’s career is more than usually
interesting and worth setting forth
frankly, for he is the finest specimen in
modern times of the Decorative Artist. He
added nothing to the sum of human know-
ledge; he was in almost every respect deriva-
tive ; but he began his public life with a
sense of Beauty predominant, and he sought
to live up to his affirmation in “The Picture
of Dorian Grey” that all art is useless.
! Harris regards Wilde as a “Promethean
: artist clamped, so to speak, to the granitic
; cliff of English Puritanism.” Brilliant
* talker, playwright, essayist, poet he was; but
! no fire-bnnger, unless one counts it Prome-
: th . e a u to make new combinations of old
: wisdom and wit. Still, in his own line he
was great. But he sinued and was found
out; and his punishment was excessive and
the execrations of the great B.P. pitiful.
The offence for which he was condemned was
not uncommon; it still prevails in British
public schools (as witness the, recently-pub-
lished “Schoolmaster’s Diary,” edited by S.
P. 8.-Mais) ; but damnation'is for those who
break the eleventh commandment.
Harris begins his study by relating at
length the Dublin scandal of i 864 in which
Oscar's father, Sir William Wilde, figured
> discreditably. One gets also an unsparing
portrait of Lady Wilde, the “Speranza” of
much Irish verse which had a temporary
vogue. The mother’s vanity was as much
exceeded by the son’s as her verse was out-
classed by his.
Harris met Wilde in London after the
latter's marriage (which had relieved his
financial embarrassments), but was repelled
by something oily about him. “Fleshly in-
dulgence and laziness, I said to myself, were
written all over him.” When formally
introduced, “he shook hands in a limp way
I disliked ; his hands were flabby, greasy; his
skin looked bilious and ditty. lie wore a
great green scarab ring on one finger. He
was overdressed rather than well dressed ; his
clothes fitted him too tightly; he was too
stout. He had a trick even then which
grew .on him later of pulling his jowl with
his right hand as lie spoke, and his jowl
was already fat and pouchy... . I lay stress
ou this physical repulsion because I think
most people felt it and in itself it is a tribute
'to the fascination of the man that he should
have overcome the first impression so cum-
-pletely and so quickly.... He was over six
feet in height and both broad and thickset;
he looked like a Roman Emperor of the deca-
dence. .. .At this time he was a superb talker,
more brilliant than any I have ever heard in
England but nothing like what he became
later. There was an extraordinary physical
vivacity and geniality in the man, an extra-
ordinary. charm in his gaiety and lightning-
quick intelligence. His enthusiasms, too,
were infectious.”
Wilde took up the idea of life which
Goethe had dropped in youth, and held that
the artists viewpoint is itlie only one.
‘Cavaliers and Puritans are interesting for
their costumes and not for their convictions.”
He was an individualist and an aristocrat—
“the poor are poor creatures and must
always be hewers of wood and drawers of
water. Their function is to give birth'to
; genius and to nourish it. Weite men as in-
telligent as bees, all gifted individuals would
■ be supported by the community as the bees
l support their queen. Don’t talk to me,
Frank, about the hardships of flte p00r....
but. talk to me of the hardships of men of
I genius and I could weep tears of blood.”
He missed no opportunity of proclaiming
his own genius, declaring that his admiration
ot himself was a lifelong devotion. When
i| ask ud to give a list of the hundred best books,
i; as Sir John Lubbock had done, he replied
that he could not give a list of the hundred
best books, as he had onlv written five.”
; Harris says that his most devoted fuglemen
Were persons usually called “sexual inverts”
-—a class in England almost wholly recruited
from the aristocracy and the upper middle
class that apes the smart set. “It is an
inevitable product of the English boarding-
school and University system: indeed, one of
the most characteristic products. I shall
probably bring upon myself a host of enemies
by this assertion, but it has been weighed
and must stand.”
When the comedies came, beginning with
“Lady Windermere’s Fan,” Oscar won the
admiration of the best; the attacks died
down, and he felt himself for tlie first time
really famous.
Then-came the fatal’friendship with Lord
Alfred Douglas, a much younger man with
a fine poetical faculty and a capacity for pas-
sionate admiration. He came to dominate
Wilde utterly, and the long story of their
relations is one of the strangest in history.
Harris makes a strong case against
Douglas, and prints the unpublished por-
tion of “De Profundis.” which is an elo-
quent letter of remonstrance from Wilde to
Douglas—a scorching document to stand as
evidence against any man.
The quarrel with the Marquis of Queens-
berry, Douglas’s father, Wilde’s misguided
action jagainst him and the subsequent trials
are familiar enough. Harris telle the squalid
story at length, and states that he strongly
counselled Wilde not to take the action
against Queensberry, but Douglas over-rode
all objections and drove Wilde to take the
action because of his own hatred of his
father.
Several of his friends urged him to fly,
but Oscar refused to stir, incapable of effort,
paralysed of will. Wilde was arrested soon
after Queensberry had won the first round,
and it was not till then that Harris learned
from Wilde that he was guilty. Again urged
to go to France, Wilde declined to leave in
the lurch the men who had gone bail for him.
“Looking back now,” says Harris, “I see
clearly that my affection for Oscar Wilde
dates from his confession to me that after-
noon .... His trust in me and frankness had
thrown down the barrier between us and
made me conscious of the extraordinary
femininity and gentle weakness of his nature,
and instead of condemning him, as I have
always condemned that form of sexual in-
dulgence, I felt only pity for him and a
desire to protect and help him.... 1 knew
now that his words would always be more
generous and noble than his actions, knew
too that I must take his charm of manner
and vivacity of intercourse for real virtues,
and indeed they were as real as the beauty
of flowers; and I was aware, as by some sixth
sense, that where his vanity was concerned
I might expect any injustice fro— him.”
The first part of Wilde's term in gaol pro-
vides a terrible indictment of the prison sys-
tem in England. Harris was able to secure
some mitigation of the regulations, and other
friends helped the unfortunate iesthete so
that he was able to read and to write. “The
Ballad of Reading Gaol” and “De Profun-
dis” were the result.
Wilde was physically benefited by bis
two years in gaol, and Harris prints a
delightful letter to Ross written soon after
his release. But in France lie soon went to
pieces, ate and drank too much, indulged in
his old vice, and became an importunate beg-
gar of all his friends —the ruthless Douglas
likening him to “an old fat prostitute.” He
practised dishonesty to raise money, selling
the scenario of “Mr. and Mrs. Daventry” to
half a dozen managers. But even when in the
lowest depths he had some true friends
who stuck to him and helped him all they
knew.
. Bernard Shaw’s memories of Wilde are
given in the appendix, and contain some
shi’ewd criticism, besides a confirmation of
the essential worth of Harris’s biography.
Robert Ross has added his comments. The
book is as complete as any biography need
be, except that it lacks an index. It is
more frank and moi'e interesting than the
great bulk of biographical literature in
English. Harris is his own publisher, but
the book is obtainable through the book-
sellers.
JOHN BROWN.
A Diary of Disease
One of tlie yellow miseries of the hour is
The Journal of a Disappointed Man, by W,
N. P. Barbellion, with an introduction by
H. G. Wells. If, for the purposes of this
Diary, Wells isn’t Barbellion himself, then
someone has been pulling - the leg of the long
arm of coincidence. It is a clever, epigram-
matic, degenerate, repulsive volume of intro-
spection, and every time the hero introspects
hits innards grow less attractive. Here are
some samples with numbers attached to
show how Barbellion sticks to his job:—•
Feeling ill like a sloppy tadpole. .. .1 have a weak
heart, an enervated nervous system (page 23).
A purulent cold in the nose. My heart is weak
(page 32).
Dyspepsia appalling (page 59).
Sat with my stick between my legs like an ' old
man (page 60).
Went to see a stomach specialist (page 69). Very
bad heart attack (71). One leg, one arm and my
speech are affected (80).
Giddiness very bad. Death seems unavoidable. A
tumor on the brain ?,.... Twined one leg round the
other (page 85). Thoughts of suicide (93). Print
becomes hopelessly blurred (100).
Can’t get rid of my cough.... Renewed my cold
Blow my nose, cough and curse Austin Harrison
(nage 103). On the floor below me is a corpse
(108). Depression of spirits, bitterness, distrust,
despair (110). In a deplorable condition (114).
Ohronic constipation (118). Bad heart attack
(120).
Looks like appendicitis, another stoppage, another
threatened blindness. .. .develop a cough.... am
menaced with consumption (page 135). Horrible
physical languor (150). Very miserable. .. .Hor-
rible nervous depression. Thinking of suicide (151).
Various nervous derangements... .My right hand is
blue (153). Senile decay (156).
My various ailments and diseases (nage 16?). It
is chilly to be alive among ghosts in a nightmare of
calamity (188).
Suffering from indigestion. The svmptoms in-
clude excessive pandiculation, excessive oscitation,
excessive eructation, dysprwsa, sphygmic flutters, ab-
normal porrigo, a desiccated epidermis (page 213).
On the left side, paralysis and horrible vertigo (215).
Down with influenza... .bad heart attack (page
222). Concussion of spine (223). T believe it’3
creeping' paralysis. My left leg goes lame after a
short walk (226). My mental powers are dis-
integrating. .. .Numbness in my right hand (253).
Daily growing more and more paralysed (261). I
am over eft. high and as t.hin as a skeleton....
creeping paralysis... .millions of bacteria are gnaw-
ing at my spinal cord (274).
I become dreadfully emaciated (page 295). I
crawled around on hands and knees (300). I col-
lapsed on the floor (301). I put m.y head out of
the window (302). I am lonely, penniless, paralytic
(304).
There is reason for this sort of thing if
the hero’s diseases are the result of bad
laws or bad social conditions, and serve to
point a moral as to how the world may be
repaired. There is reason also if the writer
has scientific ideas as to how the diseases
themselves may be repaired. But when it
is a mere catalogue of sores it appeals mostly
to those who have worms in the mind.
Otherwise the volume is a catalogue of
small happenings and incidents, mostly dis-
agreeable but cleverly written. The scribe
remarks that he probably knows more about
lice than any man ever did before, and gives
the names of notable persons like Sulla.
Antiochus Epiplianes and -Philip 11. of
Spain, who are reputed to have died of
them. Also he speaks of a tribute of lice,
the same being delivered in bags. He men-
tions the ungentlemanly habits of an animal
in Africa. He meets a “gross, hefty” idiot,
aged SO, and dressed in a boy’s suit—just
(Continued on page 24.)


V
, :/J^>
m'i
ii«
mm
w>
o' %
"II r...
K
m
a
f.
L
r,
3
...» ■-?
W<
P’ijii
I#
WSSS
•■ i
#
!$
: i W
5v
I
* s_^
m li ssT'fflT
''INN
6
J:
4
W*WlH<s
n
«
M"U*
V'
sSI
V
1
«!
/
tr
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ Illustrated Catalogue for Men is now ready. It
is titled “Men’s Matters,’’ and contains useful information on Men’s Wear.
Send your enquiry along for a free copy.
POSTAGE IS PAID BY ANTHONY HORDERNS’ on Men’s Wear to all
parts of N.S.W., or nearest port in other States.
Wet Days
Ahead.
m OU will be able to appreciate pro-
%A tection to the fullest extent if your
fiSHI Storm Coat carries the name of
Anthony Horderns’.
Added to the more serious business of
rain-resisting there is smartness in the
swinging lines and masterly finish that
betoken the art of the style craftsman.
These features —the real rain-repelling proofing and
stylish appearance —are the visible results of genuine
worth in the fabrics and workmanship—a goodness that
is carried into every stitch, every seam and every corner
of the understructure upon which the life and service
of the Coat depend.
And, because it is ANTHONY HORDERNS*, the
cost is low!
By way of description:—
Smart Raincoat, in superior Gabardine, designed
with comfortable Raglan shoulders, turn-back or
strap-on cuffs, through-opening vertical pockets,
full skirt, centre seam and vent. Step collar or
storm collar, buttoning to neck as desired.
Scientifically proofed, allowing perfect ventila-
tion. Lined in pure wool check. In the latest
shades of Fawn.
Anthony Horderns’
Splendid Values —
45/-, 57/6, 70/-, 80/-,
90/-, £5, £515 -
ANTHONY HORDERN S.SONS,US
Only Universal R~oviders,
New Palace Emporium,
«ss
6058 r i ck f"i e I d
SagSS Sydney.


Health and pleasure in KODAK picflure-maKing'
Though travelling demands a Kodak, a Kodak does not demand that you travel to enjoy its use. In your
own back yard you can get real pleasure by making Kodak pictures of the family, of the children at play,
of your pets, flower-garden and vegetable crop.
The No. la Autographic Kodak Junior is excellent for outings,
travels and use around the home. Makes pictures 2J x 4J inches.
Price 67/6. There are other Autographic Kodaks from 40/- to
The No. 2 Folding: Autographic Brownie—a fine camera—for pictures
2 1 x 3£ inches. Price 37/6. Other Brownies from 10/- to 78/6.
£l5/2/-.
Any Kodak dealer will supply you by mail, and furnish with every camera, a hook giving the necessary, simple instructions.
KODAK. (Australasia) LTD.
Incorporating: Baker & Rouse Prop. Ltd.,
379 Georgs Street, Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne.
250-252 Queen St., Brisbane; The Valley; 37 Randle St., Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth St.,
Hobart; liuthven St., Toowoomba; Flinders St., Townsville; Denham St., Rock-
hampton; Optical and Photo Supplies Co., Perth; 109-111 Dixon St., Wellington, N.Z.
(Wholesale) ; “The Kodak Corner,” corner Lambton Quay and Willis St., Welling-
ton, N.Z. (Retail) ; 3 Lome St., Auckland, N.Z. (Wholesale) ; 76 Stuart St., Dunedin,
N.Z. (Wholesale): 148 Richfield St., Christchurch. N.Z. (Wholesale).
Has CARUSO ever sung
in your home?
Not Caruso himself —but his living voice ? Have you ever heard
it in all its exquisite purity —the wonder-voice of the operas
singing to you, and for you, whenever and wherever you will?
His Master’s Voice
Celebrity Records
—and these alone —bring Caruso’s voice to you; just as they
bring the voices of Chaliapine, Ruffo, Amato, McCormack,
Melba and scores of other celebrities; the rapturous music of
Bltnan and his violin; the perfect piano-playing of Paderewski.
“llis Master's Voice” -
Itegd. Trade-mark.
The point to remember is that to
get records by the best artists you
MUST get “His Master’s Voice.”
Your safeguard is this Dog Trade-
mark. Be sure to look for it.
Complete record lists, instrument catalogue and
name of nearest accredited dealer on request.
THE GRAMOPHONE GO. LTD.,
163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
rT .
0
/
m
Every Cameo record IS Caruso, true to
life . The celebrated artist, writing to
the company, expressed his satis-
faction with the reproduction thus:—
“I am indeed pleased with
my new records —they are
magnificen t. ”
“Gramophone'
llegd. Trade-ma


YOU
CAN MAKE
£2O
WEEKLY!
without
experience by
showing
PICTURES
We sell complete Moving Picture Out
fits, including Biogranh Machine, Light,
and Films, FROM £25 UP WARDS by EASY
INSTALMENTS, No matter what coun-
trv you live in, you can have one SHU w
MEN, write for our special list and terms
500,000 FEET OF FILM AT id. A FOOT
Send To-Day for Free Catalog
It shows how to start a first c’ass Picture
Show by paying a small deposit, and then
weekly instalments.
WORLD’S BIOGRAPH CO.
110 Bathurst St., Sydney, N.S.W.
The
New Sauce
from England
r has such a delicious
fruity flavour, that
people who previously
never used sauces now
enjoy H.P. every <
meal —everyday, j
DRAWS
OUT
THE POISONS
which cause Barcoo Rot,
Bad Legs, Sore Feet,
Carbuncles, Boils,
Poisoned Wounds,
Ulcers, Bunions,
Eczema, Piles, and
those arising from Insect
Bites,
The Proprietors of
GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT
have an absolute confidence in its un-
surpassed merits. They know it to be a
safe and perfect cure for all skin and
blood ailments; and the vast number of
testimonials received prove this.
GRASSHOPPER positively
draws the poisons which produce
these maladies out of the system.
As a tonic, liver medicine, blood purifier,
and for those who suffer from headaches, the
GRASSHOPPER PILLS
are equally effective. Do not be persuaded
to purchase any substitute preparations.
Sold by all Drug Stores and Chemists
throughout the Commonwealth,
SSB
■
fe:
WA
i
•'v
m
i
AUSTRALIA’S ISOLATION
will be the Driving Power of her
Aerial Development
—sa writes Mr. 11. White Smith, Director and Secretary of The
British & Colonial Aeroplane Co.. Ltd., Bristol. England—Manufac-
turers of the “Bristol” Aeroplane—in a recent letter to the Editor
of Sea, Land and Air.
AERIAL DEVELOPMENT IN AUSTRALIA
is described and assisted, month by month, in a series of non-techn.cal,
illustrated articles, contributed exclusively to Sea, Land and Aik by
recognised aeronautical experts
SEA, LAND and AIR
is the official journal of THE AUSTRALIAN AERO
CLUB, affiliated with The Royal Aero Club (London).
Closely linked to the successful development of aviation is the equally
successful development of
WIRELESS TELEGRAPHY and TELEPHONY.
SEA, LAND and AIR
is the official journal of THE WIRELESS
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, VICTORIA AND
INSTITUTES
QUEENSLAND.
EQUALLY IMPORTANT AND NO LESS INTERESTING TO THE READER IS
THE WORK OF AUSTRALIA’S NAVY AND MERCHANT FLEET
TO WHICH A LARGE SECTION IS DEVOTED EACH MONTH IN
SLA, LAND and AIR
JUNE ISSUE NOW READY.
Topical, Reliable, Non=Technical,
The Best-Printed Monthly Journal
All=Australian.
in Australasia.
9d.
If your Newsagent cannot supply, send 9d. for Specimen Copy, or 9s. for
Annual Subscription (Post Free), to
THE CIRCULATION MANAGER, THE WIRELESS PRESS,
97-99 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals<
Works: Birmingham, England
These series *of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box. *
jgemjngtori
A
k
4
HZ
THE fascination of
field shooting is due to
the uncertainty of getting the
game. The interest in shooting is the
ability to reduce those uncertainties to the mini-
mum. A well trained dog, a good gun and
cartridges are among the necessary elements.
Produced by experienced makers and re-
cognized everywhere by keen sportsmen
as of unsurpassed quality, Remington
UMC cartridges will help you to com-
bine the elements which make a good
shot and which bring home
the full bag.
Catalogue postpaid
upon request.
REMINGTON ARMS UMC COMPANY
D. D. BKYANT, Australian Representative, Box 686 G.P.0., Melbourne.
‘‘THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
Bostosk’s Shoe Dressing.
The pre-eminent feature of Bostock’s Polish is its remarkable
LEATHER-PRESERVING QUALITY.
With tire present high cost of Shoes it is important that a
dressing should have this essential.
THE SIGN OF
A GOOD SHINE
i
BOSTOOK’S SHOE CREAMS not only impart a brilliant and lasting shine, but
add greater life to Shoes by nourishing the leather, keeping it soft, aud pliable,
and preventing cracks.
Colors: Black, Brown, Dark Brown, Ox Blood and White. In Bottles and Tubes.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Bostock's Vioflo Polishes; Ltd., Sydney,
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Way of the Wind and the Sea.
How should the world understand.'
How should a man know?
Can he hold the wind in his hand?
Can he stay the sea’s flow?
The old man sits apart,
The boy shouts at his play :
And to-day’s old heart
Beats back into yesterday.
I read an old book
Below an old tree —•
God, for the voice and look
That come back and come back to me .
How should the world understand?
How should a man know?
The boy has the wind in his hand
And the seas flow and flow.
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
The Inconstant.
I thought I had forgotten, and I laughed
At tyrant gods we label Constancy,
Whose liveried service ever seems to be
An ill-paid one. And I was proud to know
I grieved no more than does the rose to blow
For one bright afternoon, and then to sleep
On any breast that cares a rose to keep.
I thought I had forgotten, and I laughed.
Along the sunshine of the primrose way
Fresh love came jaunting to my door to-day
To tell me you were dead. ’Twas then I
knew
My living heart was buried there —-with you.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
The Old and the New.
The old man sits in his corner chair,
Shut in from the rain and wind;
His eyes have the dreams of the past in
them.
And his face is grey and lined,
And now and again he shakes his head
And utters the thought in his mind:
“The old time was a fine time —
Ah, God be with it, too!
But the new time’s no time at all
For a man to be living through ;
A strange world is the new world —•
A mad world, I say,
With its bird ways and its fish ways,
And its turning of night to day.”
The smoke goes up to the blackened roof
Where, playing at come and go,
The shadows dance at the fire’s will
With its thick red logs aglow;
And the old man, thinking of shadowy
things,
Talks on of the Long Ago:
“The towns stand where the trees stood—
Ah, God be with the trees,
With their green leaves that danced in tune
To the pipe of the morning breeze !
The flame’s work and the blade’s work
Are evil work, for sure;
But a worse fate has the grim world
For the happy of heart and pure.”
A cry comes out of the night, where lone
An owl in the darkness hawks,
And something worse than the wild west
wind
Through the wintry midnight stalks,
And the old man shivers and warms his
hands,
As out of the Past he talks:
“The old times and the old loves—
Ah, God be with them both,
And the young lad and her he loved
And the hour of their plighted troth!
’Tis dead, dead that they both lie;
The grave holds them fast;
For her form sleeps in the cold mould,
And his heart in the ashen Past.”
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Triolet.
Is there on earth a sweeter thing
Than lovers ’neath one coverlet,
Who in the stilly darkness cling?
Is there on earth a sweeter thing?
Flowers are lovely in the Spring,
And water’s sweet in Summer... .yet
Is there on earth a sweeter thing
Than lovers ’neath one coverlet?
N.S.W.
R. CRAWFORD.
The Drunken Stoker.
Blind drunk and reeling through the rain,
The furnace pallor on his face,
He beats back to his ship again
To find his cheerless sleeping-place;
His poor clothes, stiff with grime and sweat,
Cling to his limbs —he does not care.
His old black cap, now gleaming wet,
Shadows a white face of despair.
To feed through lonely nights and days
The fires that burn men up. To be
For ever slaving in a maze
Of flame and stark machinery.
This is his job. He cannot lose
The roar of fires that drag him down
Until he has his swinish booze
Somewhere about the friendly town.
The cool, sweet rain comes down in sheets;
He reels on, drenched, to find his ship,
Chancing the perils of the streets.
Some night in port he’ll make a slip;
A hospital will see him die,
Or ’neath some lonely wharf he’ll drown.
But drink and let the sea roll bv!
The slave has flung his shovel down!
N.S.W.
KODAK.


Perdriau
Perdriau Tyres are obtainable from
your local garage or from the
manufacturers
“My averag'e was 8000 miles.*’
This is another testimonial for Perdrian Tyres:
The Manager, Thompson’s Royal Hotel,
Perdriau Rubber Co., Ltd. Parkes, 6/5/’l9.
Dear Sir,—l have much pleasure in writing these few lines to show
my appreciation of the good work your tyres have given me for
the past 18 months. 1 am always on the road, over all kinds of
country, and with my last set my average was 8000 miles. One cover
wore down to the last layer of canvas, the walls remaining quite intact.
Wishing your tyres every success in the future, believe me to be,
Yours very truly,
Signed) A. H. FREEMAN.
PERDRIAU RUBBER Co. Ltd.
270 George Street, Sydney.
Also winders Street, Melbourne
Adelaide Street , Brisbane
Gawier Place, Adelaide
Murray Street, Perth
FLIES GARRY DISEASE.
INSECTIBANE
KILLS FLIES and
OTHER INSECTS.
Obtainable at all Cbemists and Stores
throughout tbe Commonwealth.
E
B g A uS? nv6A VJ
S
V \tt»
mV*
am
ill
craw*
f/
«SSc
P
'‘ijjliy,, ■
*3
Square Deal
Sandwiches
You surely need them when that healthy hunger of
the outdoors begins to get busy. Here’s the way —
a lew slices of
CAMP PIE
some bread—and butter. No cooking—no trouble.
You can make them yourself in a few minutes and
you’re fortified (or the day.
“Rex" Camp Pie consists of the finest compounded
meats, seasoned to perfection and packed in a
thick Jelly.
Always Keep A Tin Handy
Sold Everywhere
TO STOREKEEPERS.
Your customers read these annonncments.
Theg use “R*x” goods more and more each
week. ARE YOU SUPPLYING THE
BIG "REX” TRADE OF YOUR DISTRICT
Foggitt Jones & Co., Ltd.
Packers of" Rex' Pure Food Products
Curers of "Rex" Hams and Bacon
J 750
Shortly a glorious Peace will be
j o
celebrated. Men will expect it
of each other to do honor to the
occasion. Therefore, to entertain
vour friends at the right moment,
in a right good spirit, take home
a bottle of
THORNE’S
WHISHT
—at all times reliable.
You will invariably find in
•/
Thorne’s a rich charm of flavor,
a mild, milk-softness, a rare
purity —denoting, always, the
very choicest quality.
Thorne’s Old Highland Malt
Whisky has been produced at
Glenlivet for over eighty years,
under conditions that would
prevent the production of any
but a perfect spirit.
Insist on Thorne’s —in the black,
square bottle.
The whole world pronounces it
O.H.M. “Incomparable.”


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Voi.. 40.—N0. 20'>3.
THU USD AY, JUNE 19, 1919.
Pbice 6d.
HURRY UP!
"Acting Prime Minister Watt announces that he will carry through an effective tariff.”
THE OTHER WILLIAM (who says he’s leaving for Australia next month): “Hi! How do you expect my friends to climb over this?”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £ 1 6s. (id. per annum you can have The Bulletin
sent regularly to you. every week for a year, to any
address in Australasia, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, ana
all Business Communications to he addressed to the
manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are •liable to be
refused.
The. contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
anil not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
trill be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are. observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from, Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., Ml Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — -V. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu,
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Houng, Cairo, Egypt,
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Redder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise; Boz., lid.; Sjoz. to 10oz., 3d.;
lOoz. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, I/oz., lid., and id. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, JUNE 19, 1919.
THE UNBIDDEN GUEST.
Notable immigrants who drift towards
Australia nowadays are foreign, political
and miscellaneous criminals who are dodging
justice, foreign suspects who know that the
law may shortly be on their tracks, and
foreign firebrands seeking a combustible en-
vironment. Of course, some immigrants of
the quiet, ordinary type happen along, as
hitherto; and a steady stream of commercial
and financial exploiters comes and goes in
the interests of foreign capitalists. But
the undesirable element is very strongly in
evidence. There are reasons why the hon-
est, law-abiding, skilled artisan should look
.askance at this country. It may offer him a
ticket in a union, a resonant smack on the
back, a strike ration, a welcome couched
in much blither about the cause of liberty,
and possibly a wharf-lumping job or some
heavy animal employment on a new loan
railway. He may even become an im-
porter’s counter-jumper. But if he hopes
for the sort of work that a man with
a mind and a soul and trained fingers
cares to do he had almost as well go
to Central Africa. There are also suf-
ficient reasons for this country’s avoidance
by the skilled boss-artisan —the man who
has money enough to create an industry
even on a very small scale, instead of being
a wage-earner. He is crushed between tw T o
millstones. On the one hand is the giant
importer, whose arrogance grows every day
—the rich man who has Labor leaders in his
pocket and can keep the tariff so low that
skilled industry at Australian wages has a
poor show. And on the other hand is the
Labor leader of the new type who eats the
crumbs under the rich importer’s table —
the man who seems likely to be in power
very soon, and who preaches the doctrine
that, an Australian employer who pays Aus-
tralian union wages is worse than a thief
or an informer or a professional seducer,
and that all he possesses must be stolen
(i.e., “taken over”) at the first opportunity.
No man of the kind that does any good to
a country goes out of Lis way in search of
a place 'where the profit is uncertain and
the obloquy sure. One might as well expect
a Protestant of Luther’s day to emigrate
to the Inquisition. As for agricultural set-
tlers they came in abundantly once, but the
inducements are finished. The best lands
handy to the few big cities are all taken up.
The boom which existed while the Govern-
ments had good land not far from the cities
to give away at 10s. an acre (the nominal
£1 an acre was really equal, by reason of
the enormously long credit given, to less
than 10s. cash) is finished. The unearned
increment has been eaten up. Early settlers
from Britain and* Germany thought Aus-
tralia was going to be like their own coun-
tries or the U.S.A. —dotted all over with
industrial towns so that every farmer would
be near a market. That dream having been
exploded by the Congestion policy, and the
land near existing markets being used up,
agricultural immigration is practically fin-
ished until better times.
But for the more or less undesirable alien
this country offers a wider career than any
other on earth. It gives him fame and
columns of space in the papers. The posi-
tion of this individual is easily defined. He
is the unbidden guest who comes to sit on
his host’s chairs and eat at his host’s table
and live under his host’s roof. If he doesn’t
want to be naturalised, or if he proves unfit
to be naturalised, then he remains the un-
bidden guest all his days. The chief rea-
sons why he is often unfit to be naturalised
are that' he is ignorant, or criminal, or of a
low and animal type of intelligence, or actu-
ally crazed, or diseased, or that he is a pro-
fessional enemy either of this country in
particular or of mankind in general. As an
alien ho is exempt from the final test of
citizenship—liability to serve in defence of
the country. He is not wholly subject to
the laws, for he reserves the right of appe il
to his own Government for protection, lie
has no vote, of course. No nation g’ves
the alien a vote, for giving it would mean,
if he happened to be numerous enough,
handing over the control of our land to
people sent here bv another country which
possibly had good reason for getting rid of
them. In every country with a high civili-
sation the alien population is, in a great
degree, the scum population. It is the para-
site which has arrived to feed on a higher
organism as lice arrive on a human being.
Having no vote the alien should be expressly
prohibited from influencing other people’s
votes, and thus usurping political power in-
directly. In his unnaturalised condition he-
should be prevented, under heavy penalties,
from talking politics to public meetings or
political league meetings, or other meetings;
from dealing with the selection of candidates
or from stirring up political or industrial or
religious strife in any way with voice or
pen. The uninvited guest has no right to
criticise his host’s house or furniture or
cooking, or to incite members of his family
against him or against each other. And it
is time the fact was made plain to him.
* * * * -
In Australia, during the last few years
of the “international” craze, the uninvited
guest has been allowed, and in some quarters
encouraged, to act as if he owned the house
and it was the duty of the real owners to
polish his boots and bring him his break-
fast in bed. The local raw internationalist,
who is new to the game, is over-enthusiastic,
and endeavors to show his freedom from the
prejudice of race by assuming that the alien,
however shady, is always the injured party.
Not only do people of this class hold that he
has a right to be on the premises and must
not be asked to go if he has outstayed his
welcome ; they hold that he has a right to do
very much as he pleases while he is on the
premises. N. S. Wales was lately convulsed
by the demand for the release of certain
members of an alien organisation who had
set Sydney on fire in many places, and
their release is still advocated. A Labor
Conference at Perth has just decided that
all convicted traitors, many of whom are
aliens, should be released from gaol, have
their convictions anuulled and their fines and
costs refunded; also that they should be
“compensated.” Queensland, where the
proportion of alien, especially Russian, pop-
ulation is the largest and is most distinctly
of the firebrand or anarchist or unsettled
type, has become, largely by reason of them,
the revolutionary centre of Australia; and
Westralia. which runs it closely in its pro-
portion of aliens, is a good second. Queens-
land, with about one-tliird of N. S. Wales’s
population, is now distinctly ahead of the
older State in the matter of industrial dis-
turbances. and ranks as the place where the
unbidden guest is most industriously blowing
the roof off our civilisation. Sydney re-
cently had a small riot over the alleged
wrongs of a person of Hun parentage who
had preached the doctrine of disturbance
and pro-Hunism. and had been told in conse-
quence that his tenancy had exrrred. There
was quite a passionate demand for a public
trial: yet if the visitor who comes of his
own volition, and bids fair to stay all night
and devotes himself to unpleasant comments
on the household economy, can’t be urged to
leave without the intervention of the gigan-
tic machinery of the law. a good deal of the
pleasure of home life will disappear.
SOME ASPECTS OF A THREATENED
STORM.
The S. M. Herald remarked in reference
to Sydney Labor Conference proceedings
The extremists would revolt. They say so quite
openly. And apparently the only reply, which the
leaders of the moderate section of the conference can
find consists in personal recrimination about wanting
to “steal each other’s jobs.” Two full days of
vehement debate have not produced one speaker to
put clearly before the delegates the inevitable con-
sequences of revolution.
It is sound criticism so far as it goes. The
Labor moderates of the moment are as futile
as the extremists are muddle-head°d. The
party badly needs a plain man who will set
forth in ciear language (11 the. chances of
success of the one biv strike which is the
inspiration of the 0.8. U. movement; and
(2) the certain effects on the welfare of the
workers of direct action, national expropria-
tion, wholesale robbery, or whatever the red-
flag brigade cares to call it.
* * * *
There is nothing new about the one big
strike idea. It dates back at least as far ns
the ear'” days of Christianity. The Quakers
are still striking on the issues which touch
their principles, and during the war they
everywhere gained the concession for which
they struck —the right not to fight. A strike
on a genuine point of principle will not fail,
in the long run, no matter how big it is.
Finland 14 years ago was being vigorously
Russified by the Imperial Government. Tim
Russian language was being forced on the
Finnish schools and universities, and the
Finns were being conscripted for the Rus-
sian army. A general strike was organised,
and because the nation was with its objects
—and for that reason only—it was a sensa-
tional success. Every single operation of
government was held up. No one starved
because during the brief period of upheaval
those who had eagerly gave to their fellow-
fighters who hadn’t. Within a week the
Government accepted the strikers’ terms.
But Finland, which, under the Russian
Empire, was a land of many grievances,
never had another general strike; there was
no other issue on which socialist and bour-
geois, rich and poor, were at one. A strike
or other upheaval with no ethical ideal at
the back of it, whether the object was raised
wages or expropriation, would never become
general in any civilised country, least of all
in Australia. Just as the Commonwealth,
with wonderful unanimity, jumped into the
fight against Germany, so it would tackle
the business of preventing the “seizure of
the means of production, distribution and
exchange” by the working-class, or any
other class, no matter how big it was.
* * * *
Assume, however, that the insanity was
started. What would be the condition ot'
the workers —meaning the poor—between
the beginning of the upheaval and its bloody
end? Object-lessons have been afforded
a thousand times in history—are being
afforded now. Most Australian workers
have money saved, or own their homes. A
first effect of national disorganisation is to
reduce the purchasing-power of money.
There are various reasons, the chief of which
are tin.* overthrow of the credit system and
the impossibility of bringing supplies to the
great centres of population. A revolution
doesn’t cause money or other valuables to
be evenly distributed ; ho one has ever put
forward a coherent scheme by which such a
thing can be done. Its only effect is to
direct the money arid so forth into other
hands. Those who (I'd not have the luck to
be first in the rush for the spoil would
quickly find themselves destitute. The sav-
ings of most of them would hardly suffice to
buy food at Direct Action prices for a week.
The prevention of widespread starvation in
such circumstances is not a matter of good-
heartedness and mutual help. There is no
more brotherly individual than the Russian
moujik who is now starving in myriads. It
is a question of organisation; and Direct
Action is the antithesis of organisation.
History supplies plenty of parallels for the
earlier stage of Direct Action —in France
under the Bourbons and during the Com-
mune, and in Russia now —showing it to be
a state of affairs during which all classes
suffer horribly, and the poor and the “small
bourgeois” most of all. But there is no
parallel for Direct Action in permanent
working order, for the reason that the thing
is a tiresome absurdity. Let any workman
submit himself to five minutes’ self-analysis
and he will see why. Can the most skilled
of carpenters or engineers see himself-effici-
ently running (say) a great Bank? A Bank
lives largely on its credit for sound manage-
ment. Would any sane worker invest his
savings in a Bank conducted by Comrade
Montague Millek? It is the same with
a communistic transport service, or a news-
paper business, or a department store, or
any other activity calling for special qualifi-
cations and the training of a lifetime. The
fool idea of eommunising such institutions
is well enough for Sabbath-afternoon argu-
ment amongst the long-haired brethren to
whom public blither represents the chief aim
in life; but a practical people, such as the
Australians are, should have no time for it.
* * * *
But have these Labor delegates who call,
practically, for the blood of our existiug
industrial system, no legitimate grievances?
It might be thought so from a study of the
conservative newspapers. The war has
taught our Tories, whose peevish tones
breathe from their columns, nothing at all.
The fact that in a Labor Conference of the
most populous State of the Commonwealth
a motion in favor of Revolution was only
beaten by the barest majority leaves them
irritable, yet complacent. The times call
for an attitude altogether different. Never
in history was the agitator on a better
wicket; and never in this country’s history
was it less desirable that the agitator’s
methods should succeed. The agitator can
only be countered by an amended national
outlook. Marx said once that if England
took the most conspicuous place in his black
picture of capitalist industry, the explana-
tion was partly to her credit. He meant
that nowhere else in the world were indus-
trial scandals investigated so eagerly and
exposed with such candor. England still
runs true to type; and it is not too much
to say that civilisation largely owes the win-
ning of the war to the drastic way in which
England laid bare her profiteering and food-
shortage troubles and dealt with them. The
profiteer is doing as well in Australia as he
ever did anywhere; but here he remains un-
checked. The striker is a curse and a
danger, and he is told so most days of the
week. But he has his counterpart in the
Bolshevik-creating employer who is rarely
mentioned, much less exposed. The work-
ing classes all over the world are seeking
not merely, as heretofore, a livelihood, but
the. introduction of a certain quality into
their existence. They ask not onlv for sus-
tenance, but for more freedom and daylight
in their lives. It is impossible that every-
body should have what a few demand, but
it is equally impossible that existing social
conditions should last here, unchanged.
Meanwhile many workers are in a danger-
ous frame of mind because they feel that
the’r legitimate aspirations are not even
understood outside a limited circle. The
proceedings at recent Labor Conferences are
among the numerous manifestations of it
that the community has been having bf late.
THE LAND OF THE MORNING
CALM.
I KNEW a quiet and inoffensive youth an
ex-bankclerk in an Australian citj w 10
by a variety of circumstances found him-
self the manager of a rubber estate on an
island in the mouth of a remote Bornean
river. Between the infrequent visits of a
British official he was the sole arbiter of
the destinies of a couple of hundred coolies,
the scum and sweepings of Asiatic seas and.
islands. He was an idealist, this youth.
He started in to raise the moral status and
improve the social and sanitary habits of
his charges. He issued a mass of sumptuary
regulations which controlled their getting up
and their going to bed, their dress, depoit-
ment and language. He offered premiums for
industry, and introduced a number of women
to improve the island’s morality and insuie
a constant labor supply. His measures
reduced sickness and the death-rate and in-
creased the birth-rate. There was no doubt
he was doing good. He was finally removed
from the island by the Government tor
stringing refractory coolies up by the thumbs
and rubbing chemicals in the eyes of a dan-
gerous agitator. .
Nations, like individuals, are subject to
temptations, and the most subtle and cor-
roding one is that which arises from the
domination of subject peoples. The Roman,
the Turkish, the Portuguese and every pre-
vious civilisation split on that rock. it
still lies in the path of British Imperialism,
but its position after 200 years has been
charted, and only the stupidity or negligence
of those upon the bridge can _ make it a
danger to navigation. But it is a curious
fact that few nations seem to be able to read
the charts drawn in blood and suffering
by the peoples of other nations. They must
make their own. The Americans have
profited by the Anglo-Saxon tradition, in
their great attempt to help the Philippines
to self-government; but the Belgians on the
Congo, the Italians in Tripoli, and the Ger-
mans in all their colonies have had to learn
the lesson, told in bloody iteration through
5000 years of history, all over again.
The Japanese are the parvenus of colonisa-
tion, and when in 1905 they came into the
Chinese heritage in Korea they had a golden
opportunity for experimentation. The
Korean, with his long white gown, his
goatish-looking beard, his effeminate top-
knot, his extraordinary top-hat, and his air
of shabby-genteel resignation, fairly clamors
for exploitation. He has always been op-
pressed. He is oppressed by his climate,
by the geographical conformation of his
country, which is five-sixths mountain, by
his fashions, by his mourning laws, by his
priests and his rulers. His history is a
record of oppression. He has been bullied
by the Chinese most of the time and fright-
ened to death by the Russians the rest.
Anybody can kick a Korean. A man who
would put up with a yangban would put
up with anything. A yangban was a sort
of hereditary official, who, before the Japan-
ese era, had the power of life and death
over his district. When he walked lie had
to be supported by each elbow to keep up
the illusion that walking wasn’t his natural
mode of progression. When he rode he had
to be held in the saddle to prevent his fall-
ing. He wore a hat which would have
wrecked the dignity of a new J.l\ He was
backed by an army mainly armed with ban-
ners. Each soldier carried a banner, and
an officer carried two and had to be sup-
ported in his saddle like a yangban. This
comic-opera official terrorised the country-
side, extorting from the trembling peasantry
the whole surplus of their labor. Owing
to their exactions the whole nation out-
side the yangbans was reduced to a dead
level of poverty and misery. Occasionally the
mob w r as stirred to gusty wrath and rose up
and blew on the yangban, and he fell out of
hi; saddle. But another yangban came in
his place, and a few people were tortured
and a few more decapitated and their bodies
left to be eaten, and things went on as be-
fore. The Korean king was a shadow more
unsubstantial than a dream. If he wasn't
an idiot already the eunuchs made him one.
His hat was more extraordinary than the
hat of any of his subjects, who therefore*
thought him semi-divine. Periodically lie
died and a new king took his place ; but the
patience of the Koreans is shown by the
fact that the last dynasty had reigned for
500. years.
The temptation to kick a Korean is to the
ordinary man very strong; to the bully it
is irresistible. There was a good deal of
kicking done when the Japanese first found
themselves in secure occupation. It was
mostly done by a low class of Japanese immi-
grants who flocked into the country at the
first hint of loot; but a more subtle form of
bullying came from the Government itself.
Deluded by the ease of its own conversion,
it believed that it could make the Korean a
civilised being as quickly and easily as an
Osaka factory can imitate a European sew-
ing-machine. Tt was a little ashamed of itself,
perhaps, because Korea treasured, with an
assumption of quiet superiority, a civilisa-
tion considerably older than the one Japan
had recently discarded. It began by pour-
ing out a bewildering succession of regula-
tions which interfered in every department
of Korean life. The Koreans were told
how to cut their hair and how . to wear
their clothes. They wore ordered to
reduce the breadth of their sleeves and
the length of their tobacco-pipes. The fam-
ous Nagamoiu scheme, whereby a Japanese
“philanthropist” was granted 50 years’ un-
conditional lease of all mountains, hills and
river-banks not covered by Korean crops,
was simply veiled confiscation, and would
have driven any other people into revolt; but
the dread of losing their top-knot and top-hat
excited more rage in the Korean soul than
the robbery of their ancestral soil. They
nailed their top-knots to the mast, so ro
speak, and by passive resistance thwarted
every effort of the Japanese to remou’d them
in the modern shape. This period of peda-
gogic legislation came to an end in 1910.
leaving the Korean in placid possesion of
the field.
Thence onwards Japan has made honest
and energetic endeavors to govern Korea ac-


cording to enlightened methods. Ihe low-class
immigrant has been excluded from the coun-
try, and the Korean has been given the pro-
tection of a legal code and courts to interpret
them. The country has been surveyed and
the land rights of Koreans have been better
respected. A network of railways arid
magnificent roads has opened up a rich agri-
cultural area, mines and other industries
have been developed, and Korean prosperity
has risen like a flood. Science applied to
colonisation, like science applied to every-
thing else, has produced an enormous
material reward. Never before has the
Korean enjoyed such security and opportuni-
ties. Under the old regime he was habitu-
ally lazy because systematically robbed.
Under ordered government he has proved
himself to be as good a worker as any in the
world.
The causes, then, of his recent revolt
and his present demand for independence
must be sought otherwhere than in his
material condition. The first cause is to be
found in his hatred of the Japanese. It is
an ancient hatred. It is 1600 years old.
It dates from the invasion led by the appro-
priately-named Japanese Empress Jingo in
the fourth century, which left Korea a desert.
It was stimulated in the 16th century by
Hideyoshi’s invasion, which reduced Korea
to an appalling wreck, from which she is
only just recovering. I forget whether it
was a pyramid of Korean ears or of Korean
noses which Hideyosi-ii erected on his re-
turn to commemorate the exploit. The
Koreans, however, remember whether they
were ears or noses, and they also remember
their vanished top-knot. But a wise Gov-
ernment, a Government which took pains to
show the Koreans that it was there solely
for the Koreans’ good, might have made the
Koreans forget their top-knot, just as the
Americans gained the confidence of the Fili-
pinos by showing them that they -would only
rule the Philippines until the Philippines
could rule itself. But the Japanese failed to
do this, and thus proved themselves to be only
half-way on that Imperial road which often-
est leads to self-destruction.
Every year the Japanese administration
publishes an official record of Korean nro-
gress. It is a significant document. Its
trade statistics are impressive. It reports
the rapid development of the new educa-
tional scheme “whose vital aim is to develop
loyal subjects' of Imperial Japan.” It con-
stantly refers to the “new national lan-
guage”—which it is needless to say is not
Korean. It praises the growing devotion
of the Korean schoolboy to the Imperial
idea, and naively remarks that “the new
national anthem is becoming his favorite
song.” After these complacent claims we
are not surprised to learn that in one year
there were 115 newspapers, totalling 25,352
copies, confiscated for seditious utterances,
and 85 books, totalling 87.124 copies, sup-
pressed for the same reason. The process
of turning the mild Korean into a Japanese
is not without its vicissitudes.
FENG-SHUI.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Cold Comfort about “the Land.”
Tile pro-importing and anti-manufacturing
press has again offered consolation to “the
man on the land,” and told him of the bag
of gold buried at the tail of the rainbow: —
During the war the United States filing herself
whole-heartedly into the task of feeding the starving
nations.... Her areas under wheat within the two
years 1916 to 1918 increased from 636,313,000 aens
to 917,100,000 acres. Those under oats increased by
250,000,000 acres, while rye nearly doubled in area.
In addition the value per bushel of these crops
increased from 50 to 110 per cent. Meat producers
....increased production in one year by 24 per cent.
Hogs.. . .the production in 1918 was 40 per cent,
more than in 1900. Canada’s record is equally note-
worthy ....
It is aU very heartening, no doubt; but there
are some overlooked points:—
The U.S. has manufacturing cities dotted all over
its innards, while Australia has not one worth men-
tioning. The U.S. has its second biggest city almost
in the centre of the country. Therefore Uncle Sam’s
farmer has a reliable market at his door. Ours
hasn’t.
The U.S. man doesn’t grow wheat purposely for
export except when he makes a splash in war-time
to meet a sudden and profitable demand. In' fact,
just before the war he had practically retired from
the business. He only exports liis casual surplus.
During the war-time his sales of goods abroad in-
creased by about £900,000,000' a year, and wheat
accounted for only £30,000,000 of it. The stupen-
dous rush was in manufactured goods. The U.S.
wheat crop averages 15 bushels to the acre. The
Australian crop doesn’t touch tire, U.S. figure once
in a blue moon.
Notwithstanding numerous aids, ngri-ulture in
some of the temperate regions of Australia was on
the down-grade before the war revealed the fact
that a grain-exporting country is of no use at a
crisis unless it manufactures its own ships and its
own railway-building material. In N. S. Wales rural
occupations employed 12,000 less people in 1917
than in 1912. These 12,000 had found that being
the world’s “man with the hoe” on from fair to
poor soil far from the world's big markets is a.
305.-per-week job. And every year the increase of
the price of the goods which we import, because we
don’t make them for ourselves, renders 305.-per-week
jobs less beautiful. All the clamor about cheap
living is directed towards reducing the price of the
things the farmer sells. As for reducing the price
of those he buys there is never a word.
These are some of the reasons why The
Bulletin can’t get enthusiastic about even
the glad news that hogs have increased mar-
vellously along the Mississippi, where the
big markets are close at hand. When we
have the same sort of big markets the Aus-
tralian farmer may feel comfortable, too.
But while most of our manufactures are
carried on in other countries, he has to send
his bulky products thousands of miles in
other people’s ships to find buyers; and it
doesn’t give him a fair chance.
Chippendale and Strawberry Hills.
Dear Bulletin,—The Inter-State Commis-
sion on Housing Accommodation has issued a
lugubrious progress report. As regards Aus-
tralia’s two biggest cities the tenor of it is
that Melbourne is prettv bad in places and
Sydney is worse. This is only natural,
for ike Ma metropolis is older, has more
population on a smaller space, and is awk-
wardly broken up by an unbridged water-
way. Six crowded residential suburbs, por-
tions of six more, and a great part of tbe
city itself are described as possessing hardly
a habitable residence, using the term “habit-
able” in a civilised sense. And on top of
this it is reported that 12,000 more houses
should be jambed in somewhere, with thou-
sands and thousands more later on, to make
roofs for tbe growing population—unless, of
course, the State builds some new cities at
other ports or inland, and gives up faking
railway rates and railway-construction de-
vices to drag all its blight, free, hopeful ris-
ing generations to Chippendale and Straw-
berry Hills and their environs. Quite a
good-sized residential suburb might be made
available, for instance, if the State capital
and all its luggage and encumbrances were
removed to a smaller town which could do
with a little extra population, after tbe plan
adoptc-d in tbe U.S.A., where hardly any
first-class city is its State’s political centre.
Parliament House and the swarm of Govern-
ment offices do a great deal to compress
Strawberry Hills and Chippendale into an
insanitary condition of breathlessness. Bar-
ring this idea and the idea of diverting
some part of the rush and crush to new
cities, built on unpolluted ground, where a
fresh start could be made with the nation
as sole ground landlord—barring all this it
is a mere matter of arithmetic. If three-
storey dwellings of an objectionable sort are
swapped for neat, civilised cottages, people
will cover three times the space. If the
cottages are detached to the moderate extent
of having half a cottage wudth between each
pair of domiciles, that wfill add another 50
per cent, to the area required, and the re-
formed tenants will occupy 4| times the old
space. A very moderate bit of ground—
little more than a verandah and a fence in
front and a patch behind —-will easily spread
these people over times the old space,
for the ancient variety of Strawberry Hills
mansion opens on the street in front and has
just room for a dust-box and -a compressed
dog behind. Then if the 20ft. or 30ft. street
is made a civilised width, the tenants who
have shifted from the old order. of things
to the new will easily cover 27 times as
much elbow-room as formerly. If they are
put not quite so many in a room they may
want more elbow space than that. And when
the big and ever-growing city is beautifully
Town-Planned on these lines, with a solid
business centre and healthy suburbs, the
outermost inhabitant will live a quarter-
day’s journey from his office and won’t have
time to work because of the travelling he has
to do. Nobody has yet found out how to
cluster 8.000,000 or even 800.000 people in
one commercial and industrial ant-hill and
yet let them lead the hygienic life, and
people were struggling with the problem be-
fore Captain Cook’s ancestor of the thou-
sandth "eneration was born. Why Aus-
tralia, with not much more than one person
to the —uare mile, should struggle with the
problem passes comprehension. Countries
with more than one human to the acre are
up against it, but we are not. Sydney could
be reconstructed —though the reconstruction
of old things is far more costly than the
building of new ones—as an ideal city of
400,000 people* Then it might be one of
a group of perhaps half a dozen such cities
instead of being a solitary and infected
assemblage of places like Strawberry Hills
and .Chippendale, and living in a state of
perpetual protest against its own degener-
acy. Australia won’t require cities much
above the 400,000 mark for another half
century aril by that time air navigation and
the habit of living in balloon tenements and
floating hash-houses may throw a new light
on tli° subject.—Yours, etc., Henry llorse-
COLL-A E.
Voting Vagaries.
The I-lare-Clark voting system of Tas-
mania plays strange tricks at tunes. An
unwealthy candidate who is popularly sup-
posed to have Buckley’s show of election,
and has nothing whatever to recommend him
to electors save his party label, has only to
cultivate a lost-dog expression and widely,
but, of course, in strict confidence, let it be
known that the loss of his £25 deposit will
leave him penniless, and he may easily find
himself hoisted on a wave of personal sym-
pathy to the top of the poll or thereabouts
on election day Another candidate (per-
haps of the same party), whose ability and,
character are such as to mark him as a
“safe thing.” may just as easily find himself
short of sufficient No. 1 votes to ensure him
a fun in the final count. These things sel-
dom happen to the same candidate twice,
certainly; but every election sees some of
them happening to somebody, and the end of
polling day always discloses a number of
electors kicking themselves in secret places
and swearing never to be caught so. fool-
ishly-any mere. . But the vast majority of
t ho ie electors who find themselves, by their
own votes, represented in Parliament by a
lost dog, seek solace from their self-inflicted
ignominy in the consolations of the Party
Creed; so long as candidates all carry the'
Party label, the personnel of those elected
is alleged to he a matter of small conse-
quence. This creed appears to be more hon-
ored by the Laborites than by their 'oppo-
nents—which probably accounts for the fact
that the Labor Party machine begins to
show signs of strain, and Tasmanian Labor
papers are advocating an electoral law
which, while taut enough to prevent leakage,
will be sufficiently resilient to obviate a
ridiculous smash. The Party List system,
with the uniform quota and utilisation of
“remainders,” would prevent the wasteful
leakage of votes which takes place under the
Tasmanian method; but it is doubtful if
anything short of a reversion to single elec-
torates, 'with the transferable vote to ensure
majority rule, will entirely remove the objec-
tionable-personnel risk above mentioned, or
that other screaming absurdity of the Tas-
manian system, the by-election, farce. The
most recent presentation of this latter com-
edy stars one Connell in a double role.
Mr. Connell was a candidate for Wilmot
Division in 1916, and got so few votes that
lie lost his £25 deposit. Later on. one of the
successful candidates (Mulcahy) resigned
from the Assembly to fill the Senate seat
! vacated by J. J. Long. A re-examination of
the Wilmot ballot-papers showed that Con-
nell was marked No. 2 on Mulcaiiy’s
■ papers, and that, theoretically at least,
Connell would have been elected for AVil-
mot if Mulcahy nad not been in the field.
So, though Connell had los.t his denosit,
the Tasmanian electoral law automatically
made him a member of Parliament. He never
took his seat in the House, for the House
was out of session; but for four or Jive
months he was entitled to take the other
privileges of the position, including a mem-
ber’s railway pass. He was a candidate
for Wilmot again at the recent election, and
again lost his deposit. A by-election law
which permits such an emphatically rejected
candidate to act as the Parliamentary repre-
sentative of the electorate, if only tempo-
rarily, is not likely to command general
respect.
—»
Ballot or Blue Metal—Which?
Westrai.ian Laborites trained all their guns
on the Albany electorate. It is a recog-
nised pendulum district, and the defeat of
Scaddan would have been acclaimed as a
vote of no-confidence in flie Mitchell Govern-
ment. Ex-Minister W. D. Johnson was
about the strongest man the Trades Hall
could put in the field, and Parliamentary-
leader Collier, industrial boss McCallum
and practically all the sneakers of the party
spouted from one end of the district to the
other. Scaddan, on the other hand,
shoved away all offers of assistance. A
wily campaigner is John. He made the
issue of the fight Constitutional Govern-
ment versus blue metal. This had the other
side paralysed. Had its leaders denounced
the recent Fremantle struggle, where stoush
of the all-in variety won the day, they
would have had to eat their own words and
run foul of the extreme industrial elements;
yet, as they knew, direct action. with a
crowbar was no card for a Parliamentary
candidate to play. Johnson and his
backers challenged Scaddan to speak on the
high cost of living, repatriation and the
condition of the finances; but Happy Jack
smiled affably and continued to preach from
his chosen text. So it was a depressed as
well as a hoarse Labor team that returned
to Perth after taking the count. But the
defeat will be worth whip if it makes
them realise, wdiat Justice Higgins told the
seamen last week, that they can’t have it
both ways.
The Row in Egypt.
From an Australian Light Horse man;
The rising which has held us up here started as
a protest against the non-representation of Egypt at
the Peace Conference. The originators claim that,
as a country taken during the war (Egypt was offici-
ally Turkish before), she is entitled to self-govern-
ment under President Wilson’s principle of self-
determination. The weakness of this claim lies in
the low percentage of literacy in Egypt —about 3
p.c. Self-government at present would lead to an
autocracy such as existed under Turkish misrule, with
all its cruelty and corruption. Egypt must there-
fore be considered as being as yet unready for self-
government, like German West Africa. Naturally
that is unpleasant for the educated class to swallow.
Of course the political movement had German
intrigue behind it. The better class pulled out,
but the loot-seeking riffraff joined the Bedouin,
whose ignorance has been pl-aved upon until they
believe that we have been defeated by the Turks
and driven back into Egypt. Their mobs have
actually been working under the Turkish flag.
Prior to the war there had been a certain resist-
ance to the British rule from different parties, but
the fellaheen or farmers, who form the bulk of the
population, had gained from our “interference,” and
supported us. Against us were the pro-Turk party,
either Turkish in descent or whose profit-making had
suffered under our control. Also the Nationalists,
or Egypt-for-the-Egyptians party, recruited amorgst
the numerically small educated class. And, lastly,
the religious party, which objected to Christian con-
trol in a Mahommedan country. Now unquestion-
ably the bulk of the country is agpinst us, for the
following good reasons:
(1) Education. —The system has been built on a
European (Christian) model and does not meet the
needs of a Moslem race.
(2) The system of requisitioning during the war.—
We have taken crops, donkeys, camels, etc.,, at a
good price, but have paid-the village headman and
not the owners. This was an inexcusable defect,
as every official with Egyptian experience knew that
the owner would receive next to-nothing.
(3) The Egyptian Labor Corps."-—On paper this is
voluntary and better paid than ordinary labor in
Egypt. In practice, we instructed the headmen to
secure each so many men from his village.. In con-
sequence, the enlistment has degenerated into the
taking of the men who were unwilling or unable to
pay sufficient bribe to avoid compulsory enrolling.
These irregularities may be put down to the defects
of the Egyptians, but that does not excuse us for
allowing such things to go on under our administra-
tion. Family influence and social pull have given
Egypt a class of British official quite unsuitable.
Even the better ones, by, their social exclusiveness
and lack of touch with Egyptian; aspirations, have
failed to secure the intimacy which is essential to
the understanding of the problems of governing a
race so dissimilar to their own.
Already the following reforms have been' promised,
all of which are necessary and should go far towards
conciliating the Nationalists:—
(1) The cancelling of the capitulations, thus plac-
ing everyone on the same footing as regards justice
and his legal responsibilities, and doing away with
the excessive privileges of foreigners.
(2) School reform on a Mahommedan basis j'et in
accord with advanced modern thought.
(3, and most important) The replacement of a
number of British officials by Egyptians.
There are others. The British have, in short, admit-
ted their mistakes; it now remains to remedy them
and win back the people’s confidence. In the success
of that effort Australia is greatly interested: for,
if one will consider the map, one will see how im-
portant it is to us, in view of the Asiatic possibili-
ties of the future, that Britain should hold Egypt.
—♦
The Ways of the Beef Trust.
Randolph Bedford’s summary:—
A copy of the report of the U.S.A. Federal Trade
Commission on the Meat Packing Industry has come
this wav, and it is worse than the worst enemies
of the Beef Trust had expected. Woodrow Wilson
had asked the Commission to find out if there were
“monoplies, controls, trusts, combinations, con-
spiracies or restraints of trade out of harmony with
the law and the public interest,” and the Commis-
sion reported:—
“We have found conclusive evidence that warrants
an unqualified affirmative. Five great packing con-
cerns of the country— Swift, Armour, Morris,
Cudahy and Wilson —have attained such a dominant
position that they control at will the market in
which they buy their supplies, the market in which
they sell their products, and hold the fortunes of
their competitors in their hands. Not only is the
business of gathering, preparing and selling meat
products in their control, but an almost countless
number of by-product industries are similarly domi-
nated ; and, not content with reaching out for
mastery as to commodities which substitute for meat
and its by-products, their have invaded allied indus-
tries and even unrelated ones.”
Tracing these five great corporations through their
“amazing and devious ramifications,” the Commis-
sion found that it was “not so much the means of
production and preparation, not the sheer momentum
of great wealth, but the advantage which is obtained
through a monopolistic control of the market places
and means of transportation and distribution.” If
these five great concerns “owned no packing plants
and killed no cattle and still retained control of the
instruments of transportation, of marketing and of
storage, their position would not be less strong than
it is.”
And then the Commission goes on to the indict-
ment of the Trust in detail: the monopoly of rail-
way cars (which fact alone has become a Strong
argument in the U.S. for State ownership of rail-
ways), the internationalising of the Trust’s control;
the establishment of schools for witnesses; the falsi-
fication of books and records; the control of eggs,
cheese and vegetable-oil products, and the extension
of the Trust’s power “to cover fish and nearly every
kind of food stuff”; the control not only of the
U.S. meat, but also of more than half of the meat
trade of the Argentine, Brazil and Uruguay and the
“large investments in Australia.” The Big Five
control 86 per cent, of the principal food lines of
the U.S.,' “manipulate stock markets, restrict inter-
state and international supplies of food, control the
prices of dressed meats and other foods, defraud both
the producers of food aryl the consumers, crush.competi-
tion, secure special privileges from railroads, stock-
yard companies and municipalities.” They profiteered
so that in the war years 1915-16-17 four of the
five packers made net profits of £37,000,000.
Swift is the biggest butter distributor in the U.S.
They can fruit and vegetables and are deep in the
grocery business. In 1917 Armour sold 16 millions
pounds of rice, and during the year rice prices
leaped 65 per cent. The same co. handled 75 mil-
lion bushels of wheat, or 23 per cent, of all grain
received at Chicago, and his broken into fertiliser,
feed, coal, fence-posts, wire, builders’ hardware,
twine, timber, cement and bricks.
The Big Five subsidise newspapers to defend their
operations and control 60 banks. They had joint
funds to “employ lobbyists and pay their unaudited
expenses.” The Commission found that the Big Five
shortweight the live-stock producers in the sale of
grain and hay at the stockyards; shortweight the
retailers on meat shipments; shortweight the Gov-
ernment; and shortweight one another. But the
most serious menace i» Australian pastoralist3 is
that disclosed by the evidence in the. ifiscouragc-
ment of production. The Commission found that
“the packers have deliberately discouraged produc-
tion in certain regions where they do not wish to
establish packing-plants and slaughter-houses. The
story of the packers’ activities in destroying the
raising of sheep and other animals in New England
is a chapter by itself.”
The Big Five have already got a strong footing
in Australia and their intentions can he measured.
One of the Trust’s principals told one of the best
cattlemen in Australia that his co. intended to buy
up the biggest cattle-stations in the North and
charge the Australian consumer American or Euro-
pean prices for Australian meat. “We’ll just spend'
20 or 30 millions in getting control,” said the
Bc-ef Trust man, “and then the prices will bit the-
reof.”
“Do your worst,” retorted the Australian. “You
can’t buy legislatures here, and we'll hit you with
an export duty on meat.”
The Beef Trust man confessed the setback. “If
that’s so,” he said, “we’d best keep the millions ini
our paheket.”
But the Beef Trust has many ways of doing the
wrong thing, and the revelations of the U.S. Federal
Trade Commission are a warning to Australians,
producer and consumer alike.
The “Privileges’* of the Profession-
The other day Sydney was edified by an off-
shoot of an impending divorce suit of por-
tentous length. The respondent did not
deny misconduct with the lady cited. AH
he sought to establish was that he had less
money than his wife was trying to make out.
It is not overstating the facts to say that
there was a measure of bitterness about the
case. Perhaps for that reason the wife’s
attorney was induced to drag into the pro-
ceedings the name of a lady who, officially,
was a rank outsider. She is not named in
the petition ; and yet the ouestions put re-
specting her! and faithfully reported in the
papers, amounted to a plain suggestion of
adultery. The catch in it, so far as the
accused is concerned, lies in the scandal that,
though she may be innocent, she will never
have an opportunity to establish the fact..
The petitioner’s solicitor, still in the execu-
tion of his duty, next put it to the respond-
ent’s mistress that she had been enter-
tained bv So-and-so —name given and duly
published. Far be it from The Bulletin
to hint that all this was other than legiti-
mate and necessary in the interests of justice..
But if the practice becomes fashionable it
will make life over-exciting. No woman
will be safe against the possibility of waking:
up to find herself infamous; no man safe
against the risk of being saddled by some-
total stranger with a disastrous reputation
as a frequenter of shady company. Solici-
tors who may do this sort of thing are pro-
tected by “privilege.” The citizen reflected
upon has not even the right to come in and
deny the implications. In the particular case
cited it is, of course, inconceivable that the
attorney concerned should have been actu-
ated by any sentiment but that of devotion
to duty. But there are others, less upright,
who would cheerfully prostitute their pro-
fession for the sake of a private grudge. It
is not advisable that they should be given
the opportunity.
♦
Duntroon.
“Digger” : The officer who puts “the
case for the Permanent Staff” (B.
22/5/T9) says that Duntroon Military
College might as well close if A.I.F,
officers who have fought with distinc-


am a
he u y^lusi r&.(icL
THE PREMIER HOTEL IN THE COMMONWEALTH
THE RENDEZVOUS OF THE ELITE.
ENTERTAIN YOUR FRIENDS
IN THE WINTER GARDEN at
Morning Tea. Afternoon Tea or
Theatre Supper—Strawberries and
Cream, Fruit Salads, lees. Delect-
able Confections and Cool Drinks to
your fancy.
Say or 'Phone Your Requirements,
and our Experts do the rest.
» The Manager.
IN THE DINING HALL.. A LA
CARTE ROOMS or PRIVATE
ROO.MS at Luncheon, Dinner or
Supper. Latest Music.
XL
m
tion are admitted to the Permanent Staff.
As at present conducted it is a matter for
serious consideration whether Duntroon
College should be permitted to continue
anyhow. It is run almost exclusively upon
Imperial lines, and most of its military in-
structors are ex-imperial officers and
n.c.o.’s who have little knowledge of Aus-
tralians or Australian sentiment. The
officer caste is notoriously in evidence, and
the education of the cadets in such an atmo-
sphere is not calculated to produce satis-
factory results when the graduates are
posted to the charge of training areas and
thus called upon to handle young Austra-
lians. Further, the greater portion of
the education is in civil subjects which
could be more etficiently and economi-
cally taught in civil institutions. The
Commandant and many members of his
instructional and administrative staffs have
not served in the great war. They should
be immediately superseded by those who
have. With so many highly-trained A.I.F.
officers available any delay in this connec-
tion is plain humbug, or worse. The same
principle should apply throughout the
A.3VI.F. Care should, however, be taken
that the officers selected for staff or regi-
mental appointments in the A.M.F. are
not sympathetically inclined to the officer-
caste idea which became so pronounced in
the A.I.F. through its association with the
Imperial Army. An officer caste must not
be tolerated in the Australian Military
forces. If it be not rigorously suppressed
there is nothing so certain to “white ant”
the whole Defence organisation.
«
The British Registrar-General reports the
“startling and alarming” fact that in the
last quarter of 1918 deaths exceeded births
by 1 9,443. The birth-rate for the year was
the lowest on record. There was the big
flu epidemic, of course. And probably when
active war ended and there was time to
clean up, a great many wounded men were
brought back to die. Australian and other
foreign soldiers have been damaging the
death-rate. both of Britain and France lately,
and haven’t been helping the birth-rate much.
Also, when nearly one-tenth of the male
population is away from home for a long
time, things are bound to happen to the birth-
rate. Anyhow, a stoppage or decline is in-
evitable so far as England is concerned.
That country has more than one human to
the acre. And when an acre has to hold
not only the human but his share of pas-
toral, agricultural and forest land, of coal,
iron, copper and tin mines, also his share
of shop, warehouse, foundry, factory, wharf,
shipbuilding yard, lunatic asylum, gaol,
church, school, university, poorhouse, park,
barracks, palace, public building of all sorts,
road; street, railway, tramway, aerodrome,
lake, mountain scenery, bog. sea-sliore, hos-
pital, cemetery and sundries, the tenant
hardlv knows where to put his fortifications
and his . gasometer. The population of
England is four times as thick as it was 120
years ago, and. there must be a finish some-
where. Nothing goes on for ever —at least
nothing has so far.
♦ ■
“H.” : The recent by-election in Paddington
(Sydney) was a very good criterion of the
support that a Soldiers’ party is likely to
S et —especially a Soldiers’ party with the
present leadership. The few supporters of
the “Soldiers’ Candidate” were not soldiers,
but, in the main, stay-at-home war enthusi-
asts. As a matter of fact, Carmichael
himself is an example of one of the things
the A.I.F. objects to. Carmichael, because
he was a member of Parliament and a
prominent public man, received his com-
mission before he left Australia. It may
be argued that he had ability, deserved a
commission, and did good work to just : f.v it;
but scores of men with the same qualifica-
tions were content to go to France as “other
ranks” and earn their commissions there.
Many others have been robbed of their
well-earned promotion by the made-at-home
officer. The fact that Carmichael was pre-
pared to go as a private himself would have
helped, rather than hindered, the enlistment
of his “Thousands”—which were not
thousands.. Even if. in Carmichael’s case,
the commission-giving was justified, the
granting of it established more firmlv the
habit of starring the unproved. Apart from
the fact, however, that “Car.” as the leader
of a soldiers’ party, does not ring true, the
soldiers don’t want a party. Most of them
fought for the right to remain citizens.
“Jobber” is one of a score or more who
have written this week about the chaos in
the Pav Office :
In January, 1916, having backed a winner at
Gezireh races, I paid 900 piastres (£9 4s. 7d.) into
my pay account, had the amount entered in my pay-
book, and was handed an official receipt—which I still
hold, fortunately. Some time last year all old
paybooks were called in and new ones issued. My
new' book showed the credit, and everything was O.K.
When I got home and received my book from
Victoria Barracks (Sydney), after some genius had
juggled with it, my account was shown as overdrawn
to the extent of £45, although I knew it was in
credit about a fiver. When I found the clerk
responsible he explained that the credit of £9 4s.
7d. had been disallowed by the Sydney office because
it had received no confirmation of the credit. Of
course I had to admit that the time—three years—
w'as barely sufficient to get the advice through. The
balance of the alleged overdraft was caused in this
way. Before leaving England, my' wife’s fare to
Sydney was charged up to me in my paybook, and
a corresponding entry made, which left my balance
the same. The entries were made, so I was told,
merely as a record. When the bird who knocked
out the £ 9 4s. 7d. got the book, he also blew the
credit out, and left me financially stiff. One depart-
mental genius suggested that I should call on the
Repat. people in connection with the refund. I
called, filled in 17 papers and made various sworn
declarations, with the result that I was advised that
the refund was mine for the asking. I asked.
Five weeks after I landed the Victoria Barracks
people sent to my brother, who acted for me, a
cheque for £ 90-odd, without a statement of any
A RAY OF LIGHT.
STRIKER ( strike pay not being forthcoming) : “ It’s just struck me, Bill —we ARE
getting the full product of our labor now
kind as to how the amount was arrived at. I wrote
about it, and I'll write again. In fact, it looks
like being a life job.
“H.H.” : My idea is that Paul Freeman
" •? s ™* *?,«* «»• -
Sloner vwe Braddon ’ retired. If the States
refused to let him in and we did the same
could then go backward and forward corn-
fortably, paying his passage out of his
salury. And if he got in he might, pro-
vided lie talked as he used to in QueeUsland,
S°od service. He would prevent many
absentees exploiting this country. We want
a Scarecrow more than a Commissioner in
some places,
~ . ..
lfln Hj hat T P iou ?
sltwd Loreburn, Lord Beauchamp,
teydney Webb, sundry parsons and a drove
of philanthropists—have appealed to Lloyd
Ceorge to let the dear Hun down gentiy.
iey say:
A peace willingly signed will be of infinitely
greater value than one forced by threats of famine,
and a far better foundation for the new world order
Unfortunately the Hun long since explained
that the kind of peace he would willingly
sign is one giving him Belgium, the North of
France, the British and French fleets
and colonies, complete command of the
sea, an indemnity of £10,000.000,000 to
£.30,000,000,000 and some sundries. The
Hun signed a peace willingly in 1864, and
another in 1566, and another in 1871, and
he has been a beastly nuisance ever since.
Now it is the Allies’ turn to sign a peace
willingly.
The Nationalists are still in charge of the
Tasmanian tart-shop. In 1916 Labor secured
14 seats, while Lee got 16 and office. This
time Labor gets 13 and the Nationalists (in-
cluding Independent Whitsitt) number 17.
The programme of the Lyons party was the
more attractive and hopeful-looking, and a
week before the palling it looked as though
Lee would be beaten. Then the smart young
men of the local branch of the Catholic
Federation, spoiling for an all-in fight with
the “Loyalty” Leaguers, issued printed lists
of “recommended” candidates, and every
name on every list was that of a Labor can-
didate. Tuese lists were spread broadcast,
and pretty soon blew into the hands of the
Loyalty League; and by polling-day the
Labor party was bralided on all its horns
and hoofs as the Fenian party, the party
which was out to haud over all the State
school kids of Tasmania to the Pope o’
Rome. After the scramble, the Labor leader,
himself a Catholic, declared that th-e whole
trouble wa« caused bv the misguided action
of the Catholic Federation in publishing its
little list. But it would have been quite as
much to the point if he had publicly con-
fessed that his own party was. deplorably at
fault in permitting any Labor candidates
to angle for the endorsement of any religious
or semi-sectarian or outside whatever.
If Labor candidates, who are pledged to a
platform which they allege to be all-sufficing,
seek to obtain auxiliary support at the polls,
it looks like the pronrietor of an infalbble
corn-cure publicly paring his toe-callosities
with a razor.
The N.S.W. Parliamentary Labor party
was instructed by the annual Labor Con-
ference to forthwith “ensure an adequate
standard of living for all.” Somehow John
Storey, the leader of the party in Parlia-
ment, didn’t say “Hooray!” to any notice-
able extent. He remembered perhaps that
the same Conference had just demanded a
reduction in the price of everything; and
bow John is ero'ng to save the poorly-paid
farmer more for his wheat —that is, “ensure
him an adequate standard of living” and at
the same time reduce the price of the
farmer’s wheat, John is probably bothered it
he knows,
“Peter Slavebody”: Considering the re-
markable success of Paul Freeman’s recent
attempt to draw attention to his claims.
I am organising a hunger-strike of bank-
clerks and school-teachers, who are both
miserably paid. It would probably work
best in the case of the bank-clerks. If the
movement started on Monday people would
be removing their balances by Friday be-
cause the teller looked too awful to bear in-
spection.
Sydney Sunday Times v. Sun-— another
mere scrap of papers.
The Diggers are wanted badly. The total
number of births in Australia for 1918 was
125,739, which is 4000 less than in 1917, and
over 12,000 less than in 1914. Marriages
have slumped, too, though the threatened
conscription for single men did liven the
market for a little while. In 1914 43,31]
couples were joined together, but only 33,141
in 1918.
From J. R. Wood, Hyde Park, London -
I would like to pay a tribute to the splendid con-
duct of the Australian troops during their two days’
stay with the Y.M.C.A. preparatory to their march
through London yesterday (April 25). They were all
that could be desired, both in bearing and conduct.
I make special mention of this because of various
statements that have been spread abroad by mis-
chievous persons with reference to the men from
down under.
“John Drayman” Woods, Hobart’s first
Labor member and the Speck’s first and only
Labor Speaker, just missed the ’bus at the
recent elections. After 11 years in the
Assembly, Woods resigned in 1917 to take
a forlorn-hope chance for Labor in the Sen-
ate contest, in company with ex-Lands Bel-
ton and Anzac Hurst. His two years’
absence from the State Assembly seems to
have helped the highly capable Labor pio-
neer’s old supporters to forget themselves.
Thus Henry C. Hall, Hon. Sec. of the
Vic. State-school Teachers’ Union:—
Par (B. 29/5/’l9) concerning the Vic. State-school
Teachers’ Union and its relations with the Vie. State
Service Federation, savs that the Union has always
stood off from affiliation with the Federation, and
insinuates that the reason was a false pride. The
fact is that the Union applied for affiliation over
two years ago, but the Federation repeatedly altered
the terms upon w 7 hich it was to be admitted, until
at last the Union gave the matter up in
disgust. As to the Union being tempted by
the bait of higher salaries to join the Federation,
the fact is that it is the Union, not the Federation,
which is vigorously pushing forward the movement
for increases. Far from the branches being “stirred
into activity” owing to the “coming” vote on affili-
ation, the fact is that the late conference, composed
of delegates from those very branches, turned down
affiliation under the present constitution of the
State Service Federation with a thud.
Melbourne City Council, having got itself
into contempt by its misbehavior at the elec-
tion of the two last Gaud Mayors, has com-
missioned its legislative committee to con-
sider how the method of filling the chair can
be improved on. At present three of the
32 councillors are appointed scrutineers, so
10 per cent, of them know how the others
have kept (or broken) their promises to the
rival candidates. In fact, the cat is out
of the bag as soon as the votes are counted,
and the new Gaud Mayor scowls or beams
on each colleague accordingly. Two or
three suggestions were thrown in by Cr.
Atkins when he moved for an inquiry. He
favors councillors being promoted in rota-
tion, and their period of greatness limited
to one year. But if the old practice of
election is to be persisted in, there is at
least one easy way of avoiding unpleasant-
ness : the taking of a genuinely secret in-
formal ballot on the day preceding the offi-
cial election.
The most surprising poll at the recent
Tas. elections was that of J. FI. Cleary
(Lab.), whose 3800 for Denison was 1400
ahead of his nearest competitor, Treasurer
Lewis. At the 1916 elections his candidature
was hardly taken seriously, for many rea-
sons, but, as the result of an accident to
another Labor-man’s nomination. Cleary
managed to scrape into a seat. Though aii
indifferent speaker and a paralysing speller
and a coiner of quaint malapropisms which
have never been surpassed in this hemi-
sphere since Hee Hem Smith used to con-
vulse the. Ballance and Seddon Parliament
with orations anent the virgin hores of the
West Coast and the boil of Taranaki, Cleary
made himself busy over a multitude of small
things during his three years in the House,
and his persistence as a button-holer of
Ministers and Departmental heads won him
renown among his constituents. Before he
joined Labor he was for many years a suc-
cessful election agent for old-time politi-
cians. He is a contractor, an anti-con scrip-
tionist. and had several sons at the Front,
at least one of whom went west.


SPECIAL NOTICE.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited.
Registration of Debentures and Federal Income Tax.
e S ister ba s been established, and the Registration of Debentures may be effected
The advantage of holding a Registered Debenture as against an unregistered Bearer Debenture is obvious, but registration also
relieves the holder from the liability of having a material deduction made by the Company of Federal Income Tax from each Interest Coupon
Under the Act (see Section 16, Federal Income Tax 1915-1918) the Company may be assessed for Income Tax on all Debentures remaining
unregistered, and such assessment, if made at the current rate of tax, would amount to about 235. per £3 Coupon °
The inconvenience to which holders of Bearer Debentures will be put if such a deduction is made can be" avoided if thev change their
debentures to Registered Debentures, which may, if required, be reconverted to “Bearer” Debentures at any time also without charge &
1/iis change to he effective, should he made prior to the Ist July, 1919, when the next interest payment falls due 1 °
and must haveToupons IltaS “* “’ e Company ’ s offlce > El l" iteble Building, Melbourne, for the purposes of Registration and Endorsement,
281'h February, 1919. F. M. DICKEUSON, Secretary.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Poor John Storey, leader of the N.S.W.
State Labor party, was a cheerless figure at
the meeting of the Labor Conference at
Sydney. He expects to be Premier soon;
and, like the tired old horse that is about
due for his turn at the shafts, John watched
his irresponsible friends loading the cart for
the uphill road. The Conference had hardly
got into its stride when it decided that one
of his duties would be to “reduce the cost
of commodities and rent.” This was put
on the cart so unanimously that there wasn’t
even a division. Yet Old Horse John knows
that, by reason of fiscal-sinking, we make
few of the expensive commodities here, nor
do we even carry them here. As regards
about nine-tenths of the trouble he can
therefore no more reduce the exactions of
the profiteers than he can reduce the King’s
salary or the Tower of London.
“AN AUTOCRAT AT THE BREAKFAST
TABEE."
Amid the roar of the great strike which is
stopping work all over Australia, Sydney
Labor Conference made “the right to work”
the second plank of its platform. The right
is beyond all question. But the trouble is
that not one of the helpless jaw-waggers will
work unless the capitalist finds him a ship to
load and a wharf to unload on, or a factory
or mine or office to toil in, or a building to
put up, or lends the money to make a rail-
way with. If some of them would only
start work, co-operatively, at something and
take the whole product of their industry!
The Russian Soviet idea is in full working
order at Broken Ilill. The “industrial
workers’’ own at least something there—a
daily paper—and when they recently went
on strike they decided that, while the more
or less manual workers of the office should
be paid, the literary and clerical workers
should get no wages. Fortunately they
miscalculated the cohesion between the vari-
ous people employed in newspaper produc-
tion ; so there was a strike, and the Labor
daily has ceased to appear.
The very latest greasy explanation is this:
It is unlikely that the promised revision of the
tariff will be dealt with until the Prime Minister
is back in Australia, inasmuch as he is more fully
acquainted with various economic matters and the
question of British preference than his colleagues in
Australia.
Australia hasn’t the least use for a man who
knows about “British preference.” The
question just now is about a little prefer-
ence for Australia; and Hughes’s colleagues,
having seen the imports grow and the un-
employed pile up, ought to know about that
better than the man who has been away
while the things have been happening.
Heaven only knows what they think they
will gain by it; but various Australian
Labor members continue to speak only kind
things of the Bolsheviks, and Brookfield, a
N. S. Wales M.L.A., “desires to be called
nothing else.” Possibly lots of things told
about these queer people are lies; but there
is overwhelming evidence that they are bit-
terly hostile to the Russian Socialist party,
and that ought to disqualify them for the
Australian Labor party’s sympathy even if
mere murder and outrage don’t.
Beeby, N. S. Wales Minister for Labor,
has come back to tell Australia that its
“compulsory arbitration” has failed and that
“we must find something which substitutes
negotiation for litigation.” If arbitration
has failed, then civilisation has failed ; and
might gets the verdict. The thing that has
failed is education. And might isn’t always
on the side of the worker. It usually is on
the side of the big union; but it isn’t on
the side of the small union, the underpaid
casual hand, the sweated woman-worker.
Arbitration gives relief to those who want it
most; and it’s the under-dog who will suffer
most if it goes.
When the National Federation urged that
the numbering of ballot-papers should be
discontinued, Premier Lawson (Vic.) said he
was unimpressed, as in the event of a dispute
there was an advantage in having this means
of identification. He was right. When £ £
Smith petitioned against Downward’s occu-
pancy of the Mornington seat long ago,
Smith found that one elector whom he speci-
ally marked down for attack had cast a vote for
himself. That blew the doctor out. Down-
ward was adjudged the victor, and has held
the seat since, while £ £ and his diamond
shirt-front studs have almost faded from the
recollection of the oldest politician.
The “wets” and the “drys” so nearly bal-
anced each other at the Tasmanian polls
that their small dispute affected the two
main parties not at all, though in one or two
electorates it made a slight change in per-
sonnel. The unknown quantity described as
the soldiers’ vote turned out to be a very
small glass of shandy-gaff. The soldiers —
at least, those who had not been disfran-
chised —lined up with their old political par-
ties, mostly Labor. A returned soldier or
two stood in each of the five divisions —three
for Labor and three for Toryism. Two
secured seats, one of each brand; though
but for the dreadful roaring of the sectarian
dragon Labor would have scored two brand-
new Digger members to the Tories’ one.
“Yeronga”: In Randolph Bedford’s recent
press-agency work for the Queensland Gov-
ernment he says that “the Liberal tail, fail-
ing to win at the polls, brought vexatious
lawsuits, which cost the State a barrowful
of money—each on appeal being fired out by
the Privy Council in favor of the Govern-
ment.” Let me reply to that with the
recent testimony of a staunch Labor man,
ex-Senator Stewart, who said at Rockhamp-
ton the other day that Ryan only won his
cases in London because he put them before
men who ruled on the cold, dead word of
law, without any knowledge of, or regard to,
local conditions, and he could not win them
before the High Court of Australia, where
the Judges mere conversant with Australian
conditions and gave a verdict accordingly.
And he spoke truth. Incidentally, it is
delightful to find Bedford, the worst word in
whose mouth is too good for an “imported”
person, going to the ruling of persons who
have not even had the decency to import
themselves, to bolster up his case!
_“Warrego Bill”: “Yeronga” complains (B.
15/5/T9) about the Ryan Government “de-
barring the children from giving their
pennies to help to buy comforts for our
men.” The liyan Government merely fol-
lowed the practice laid down by its predeces-
sors in office, the Denham Government. On
February 23, 1915, Mrs. Lockhart Gibson,
secretary to the Bananaland Division of the
Red Cross Society, formally asked permission
to send round the hat once a week in the
schools. The late A. 11. Barlow, who was
then acting as Minister for Public Instruc-
tion, wrote the following minute across the
letter:—
Cabinet declines. In advising say that there is
a general objection to collections because it creates
discrimination among children who give and those
who do not or cannot give.
When that decision was announced, “Yer-
onga” and his friends had nothing to say
about debarring children from helping the
men at the Front.
The issue of the “Defaulters’ List” in
Maoriland has brought an earthquake on the
Defence Department’s doorstep. Altogether
2600 names were published in the Gazette ;
but men who owned some of the names
are alleged to have been busy Anzacs for
many years. One joined up three year. 1
ago, and was amongst the first Maorilander;
to reach Germany. He is now homeward-
bound to read that he is a slacker. Anothw
was killed in action last July.
The situation in Russia is still upsid;-
down. Admiral Koltchak, who runs a Gov-
ernment at Omsk, obtains consideration from,
the Allies because he is pledged to hand over
his authority to a Parliament elected on the
widest possible suffrage-—as soon as he has
a big city to put the Parliament in and
power enough to prevent the Bolshevik
troops seizing the ballot-boxes. Lenin, mean-
while, tries hard to obtain recognition and
offers everything—except a Parliament
elected on an equal franchise. The Bolshevik
franchise purports to disqualify all who are
not manual workers, and makes 25.000 town
electors equal to 125,000 country ones. Lenin
is the pale reflection of Cromwell, Who ob-
jected to Charles I. because his Parliaments
were spasmodic, and then sacked four Par-
liaments in five years because, even after
he had disqualified all the members who
didn’t agree with him, he couldn’t get on
w T ith the remnant.
PERSPICACIOUS.
“In regard to their wool they should aim at the
exportation of manufactured goods and not so much
at the exportation pf greasy wool. In the first eight
months of the present financial year our importations
amounted to £60,000,000.” —Acting Prime Minister
Watt.
MR. WATT (as the man overhoard sinks for
the last time): “What you want, my
good man, is a lifebuoy .”
A Melbourne theatrical firm proposed to
send up a mummer in an aeroplane last
week for advertising purposes; but the mili-
tary, armed with the War Precautions Act,
forbade the performance “over a populous
district.” That the civil authority might
question the wisdom of allowing advertisers
to fly over cities and litter them with bills
is comprehensible. But why the military?
The invasion of the civil rights of the com-
munity is one of the things that this coun-
try will have to very carefully watch—and
kick.
The Federal Government will bring in a
Bill next session for introducing proportional
representation at future Senate elections.
While the ultimate result will be right it
will be a long time getting known. No Tas-
manian electorate herds 20,000 voters, yet
it took 10 days to complete the count at the
recent general election. The staff that
counts the Senate votes will have a perma-
nent job.
As the power of the law, made by the
representatives of all the people, diminishes,
the power of the prompt and vigorous labor
boss increases. The legislative body which
organised the seamen’s strike consisted of
BAYLEY, M.H.R.
of Oxley (Q.).
as many members as could get into a certain
hall, and those who had the same purpose as
the boss and organiser presumably arrived
early. Those voters who didn’t get into
the hall were disqualified. The boss decided
on the method of voting—by show of hands—
and he and his friends counted the vote. It
was decided that there should be no ballot,
lest it might prove that the boss was acting-
contrary to the wishes of the majority, and
the members obeyed the boss and almost
unanimously didn’t vote. They were told
to chuck their franchise and they chucked it.
Neither the Ku-Klux-Klan nor the Camorra
could have managed things much better.
The boss or group of bosses that can take
their voting rights from a big body of union-
ists could take a leg of mutton from a tiger.
As The Bulletin has said before, it isn’t
necessary to argue whether the Jap is in-
ferior or not: he may be right and we may
be wrong—the whole point is that he is
different. He took over Tsingtau from the
Germans, and, although finding the rest of
the accommodation excellent, observed ‘ one
defect. So in the middle of the business
quarter he lias put up a new block of his
own—imitation-German outside; pure Jap
inside. Of the SS houses in this block 50
are brothels. . No Jap town is complete
without its “licensed quarter” ; and that is
Japan’s contribution to Tsingtau. Yet
(merely further illustrating the difference),
when the Tokyo Art Society opened its
annual show recently, its first visitors were
the local police, who went carefully through
1 1 exhibibs, ordered several painters to
clothe their figures less inadequately, and
threw out five pictures altogether.
I rom a member of the Australian Light
Horse m Egypt:— b
The ignorant natives have been led to believe by
German propaganda that Germany was all-powerful
and was bound to win the war.
Ahvays this talk about the dangerous effects
of German propaganda ; never any mention
of British propaganda to nullify it, or of
British precautions against the diffusion of
the enemy s inevitable lies. British authori-
ties everywhere have neglected to keep the
masses informed of all-important facts. Pro-
bably it is somebody’s business to see that
the natives are properly propaganda-ed in
Cairo and thereabouts; but the somebody is
the weary cousin of an earl, and his brain
is too much occupied with the cares of golf
to allow him time for attending to his beastlv
job, you know.
_ Maoriland the two sections of the
Nationalist party hat r e fallen apart; and
the same thing is only being prevented in
S. Aim. by m ire-pulling and caballing and
other office-holding devices. Butler tin
most conspicuous member of the Tory sec-
tion, who was lately booted out of the Min-
istry, lias a large number of sympathisers,
some of whom have presented him with a
testimonial: and Peake, who put the Angus
Commission s report into effect, sees a black
cloud on the horizon. The whole trouble
arises from the desperate struggle to divide
the community into two mobs, and put one
of two brands on the lot. It is far more
ridiculous _ than if hatters kept only two
sizes m lids and men were compelled to
wear either one or the other.
We are moving. Australia coined its first
ha penny at Sydney the other day. and no
longer depends for its tram-fare money on
cheap brown artisans at Calcutta. Some of
these days when it is thinking unusually
well of itself, it will pluck up courage and
insist on making its own toothpicks.
IN A FACTORY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I am a queen with a queen’s body
That knows nought of a queen’s gown,
For life flung me a robe shoddy
Arid fate played with my queen’s crown.
I am a queen, though long forgotten
Are mien royal and dreams proud
(Rich garments put by go rotten,
Pride crumbles beneath a shroud).
They that see me remember after
Crude ribbons and laces torn,
A voice harsh and discordant laughter,
A pin’s use where my dress is worn.
Though I am wrought with a queen’s longing,
A queen's sorrow, a queen’s wrath,
Life chose me for a bitter wronging,
Fate stripped me of queen’s cloth.
Who, passing, would de ni me royal?
Who pierce the drab disguise?
And who, knowing, would dare be loyal
To one garmented lowly-wise ?
Dreams come of a great lover,
A clean lover, a wise guide ;
A lost dower shall he recover,
And I shall walk with a queen's pride.
I am a queen with a queen’s passion,
A queen's hunger, a queen’s drouth;
But life wooes in a dreary fashion,
And- fate’s kisses have blanched my mouth.
N.S.W.
NINA MURDOCH.


THE VIRTUE OF THE SUISANCE.
THE ONLOOKER: "Go it my good friend. Don’t stop! The bigger nuisance you are the sooner you will rouse yonder sleeping giant to put an end to your antics, and so restore this line fellow
behind me to the public respect you seek to rob him of.”


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
Registered
BHAS
Brand,
Producers of Lead in the following forms —
Refined Lead, Corroding: Lead, Assay Lead ( Bar and Granulated),
Super-refined Lead, Chemical Lead.
Also of—
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated), Spelter,
and the following Alloys and Metallic Products—
Antimonial Lead, Linotype Metal, Litharge (Industrial and Assay),
Bearing Metals, Leaded Zinc Pigments, Blue Powder.
Purchasers on a Specially Favorable Tariff of Silicious Silver-Lead Ores, Slags, etc.,
containing Silver and Lead. Lead Drosses, Zinc Drosses.
head OFFICE: COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE—
H. L. SHACKELL. Secretary.
LONDON OFFICE: PINNERS HALE. AUSTIN FRIARS, E.C. 2
A. .1. SMTTH. London Secretary.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY—
R. N. KIRK (Agent).
ADELAIDE OFFICE: 02 RROOKMAN’S BUILDING, ADELAIDE—
A. W. LEWIS (Agent).
SMELTING WORKS. PORT PIRIE. S.A.
COKE WORKS. BELLAMBI. N.S.W.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Emoire.
Monotool
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
the best evidence of the confidence in which
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE Company (Ltd.)
is held by the Public, is the steady growth of its Business.
TRUST FUNDS UNDER THE COMPANY'S CONTROL—
-1895 •• £2,424,412 1915 .. £11,890,841
1900 £3,928,520 1917 £13,102,289
1905 .. £5.758.222 1919 over £14,500,000
4910 .. £8,157,990
Tlie Company acts as EXECUTOR and TRUSTEE UNDER WILLS, ADMINISTRATOR,
ATTORNEY, AGENT, etc.
ESTABLISHED OVER 32 YEARS.
Write for Booklet which explains its Methods and Charges.
Nos. 33 to 39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Manager: R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Bank of New South Wales
To lle-
Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£> SL £>
Sept.,’ll.. 222,043 10 p.c.= 150,000 72,043 2,105,701
Mar., ’12.. 215,115 10 „ „ 150,000 65,115 2,170,816
Sept.,’l2.. 214,023 10 „ ~ 150,000 64,023 2,234,839
Mar., ’13.. 259,004 10 „ „ 156,339 102.665 2,337,504
Sept.,’l3.. 250,101 10 „ ~168,946 81,155 2,418,659
Mar., ’14.. 275,746 10 „ „ 175,000 100,746 2,519,405
Sept.,’l4.. 246,324 10 „ ~175,000 71,324 2,590,729
Mar., ’15.. 239.407 10 „ „ 175,000 64,407 2,655,136
Sept.,’ls.. 23D.929 10 ~ ~175,000 55,929 2,711,065
Mar.,’l6.. 227,885 10 „ ~ 175,000 52,885 2,763,950
Sept.,’l6.. 246,425 10 „ ~180,133 66,292 2,830,242
Mar., ’17.. 279,050 10 „ „ 194,464 84,586 2,914,828
Sept.,’l7.. 274,603 10 „ ~ 195,243 79,360 2,994,188
Mar., ’lB.. 278,784 10 „ „ 195,243 83,541 3,077,729
Sept.,’lB.. 273,560 10 „ „ 195,243 78,317 3,156,046
Mar., ’19.. 277,057 10 „ „ 196,790 81,267 3,237,313
The directors admit having earned £l3OO
more than in the March half preceding the
war. But there may be a considerable dif-
ference between what they could show and
wiiat they do show. To begin with, the
Wales has now £1,130,348 more of share-
holders’ funds to put to work than it had five
years ago, and meantime deposits have
grown by £8,237,228. Further, in Maoriland
the bank has been permitted to increase its
own note issue, and in the five years its
paper-money has expanded by £924,380. But
the profit-earning capacity of the concern
depends on how these 10 millions or so have
been employed, and that is set out in the
lower half of the following comparison
Liabilities.
Mar., ’l4. Mar., ’lB. Mar., ’l9.
Notes . . . . £277,874 £610,107 £1,202,254
Rills, etc. . . 6,739,876 8,677,188 11,311,326
Deposits . . . . 36,699,816 43,126,762 44,937,044
Liquid assets ..24,215,065 31,140,777 28,503,683
Advances . . . . 24,829,406 27,531,491 35,394,838
Premises . . . . 780,000 822,000 800,000
Tiie £35,394,538 of advances out at March
31 last included £3,176,950 of War Loan
accommodation to customers and £2,274,433
of wheat advances under the Government
pooling scheme. The £5,451,383 of loans
under these heads are not so profitable as
other advances, for a lot of it is earning
only 4 p.c. and the Government has assisted
the bank by providing deposits at
3 p.c.—a proceeding which has helped
to swell the deposits somewhat. Exactly
how much more Government money is in
the business now is not ascertainable, since
in the N. S. Wales and Westralian banking
returns Government deposits are not shown
separately. But going back to ordinary
advances, there is at least five millions more
out in this direction compared with five
years ago. And since interest on deposits
has not advanced to the same extent as the
bank’s charges for providing accommodation
while the world was at war, operations in
this direction must have been considerably
more profitable.
Shortly after the war started the chair-
man told Bank of New South Wales share-
holders that the concern “was never in a
better position to meet such an unexpected
state of affairs.” It would probably require
superlatives to describe the present position.
Instead of the war straining the foundations
of the banks, they have seldom had such a
prosperous time. Of course, there have been
difficulties and dislocations, and expenses
and particularly taxes have been taking
larger bites. But other banks which are
more talkative than this ancient concern
clearly show that the compensations of the
war-period have more than made good what
has been dropped in some directions. The
Wales accounts are not very informative.
It is merely stated that the “balance of the
half-year’s profits” was £277,057 after de-
ducting all working exes., paying taxes (the
management makes a departure on this
occasion to say that £126,254 was swallowed
this way), and after reducing the valuation
of bank premises and providing for doubtful
debts and the fluctuation in the value of
investments.
Notwithstanding the £5,451,383 required
to finance wheat and War Loan, the Bank of
N. S. Wales continues to hold a large pro-
portion of its liabilities liquid. At March
31 it held £57,450,624 of the public’s money,
and no' less than £28.503,683, or almost 50
p.c., was in handy form. To meet the
£25.946.941 of liabilities not held liouid,
there was £35,394,838 representing the book
value of advances, and in addition the whole
of the co.’s freehold premises. The advances
and premises are, of course, protected by
reserves, the extent of which nobody outside
can guess; but the creditor has certainly
exceptionally good security.
Lately the bank's figures have been mov-
ing ahead with such rapidity and the pro-
spects of still further expansion are so
promising that the directors are out after
further capital. Just at present, partly
because of the Government deposits, the
bank is holding just over £8 of the public’s
money for every £of its own funds. That
is about the limit of what is regarded
as a fair proportion in Australia. Further
capital would already have been got in were
it not for Treasury embargoes on new issues.
However, the directors are now out after
the balance of the £4,000,000 of capital
authorised, and shareholders are shortly to
be called together to deal formally with the
matter.
* * * *
Daily Telegraph Newspaper Co. (Syd-
ney) ■
Bonus to
Net Dividend. Shareholders
Dec., Profit. (124 p.c.) (in Shares). Reserves.
1909. . £44,074 £20,625 £16,500 £73,578
1910.. 50,374 22.687 18,150 83,115
1911.. 55,256 24,956 19,970 93,445
1912.. 56,892 27,452 30,380 92,505
1913.. 49,795 31,250 16,666 94,384
1914.. 41,828 33,334 102,878
1915.. 40,002 33,334 109,546
1916.. 40,019 33,334 116,231
1917.. 37,637 33,334 120,534
10 p.c.
1918.. 32,360 26,667 126,227
Reserves transferred to Capital, £83,890.. 37,337
’Flu restrictions held up this co.’s annual
meeting, and as no balance-sheet was avail-
able until shareholders had foregathered.
Tiie Bulletin’s post-mortem has been de-
layed. This is the very successful Sydney
newspaper venture in which a number of
people have burnt their fingers. For many
years, in addition to the regular 124 p.c.
div., shareholders received bonus shares
whidh were almost invariably provided out
of current profits. The habit developed so
strongly that between 1897 and 1913 paid
canital was built up in this way, without
calling in any cash: —
1897 .. £50,000 1908 .. £150,000
1902 . . 75,000 1911 .. 199,650
1904 . . 100,000 1913 . . 266,670
Even after handing out the regular divs.
and these bonus shares the management was
able to pile up over £94,000 of reserves. In-
vestors regarded the concern as a sort of
Burrinjuek from which bonus shares might
be expected to flow for , ever. So D.T. scrip
changed hands at ridiculously high prices—
at one time the market was so far up in the
clouds that the 124 p.c. dividend meant a
return of only 2 p.c. p.a. to the investor. Be-
sides anticipating further bonus issues, the
investor also gambled on the market value
of the bhares being maintained at fancy
prices. But the pace was too hot to last, for
there is a limit to a newspaper’s earnings,
and the business is just as liable to meet
trouble as any other trading concern. The
first disillusionment came in 1914, when the
usual share-distribution was missing; and
a further shock was experienced when last
year’s accounts showed that profits had fal-
len off to such an extent that the time-
honored 124 p.c. div. was not earned, and
that the directors proposed only 10 p.c. tor
the year. The slide in profits has been con-
siderable ; for the five years to 1913 disclosed
profits totalled £256,391; for the five years
since they have amounted to £191,846.
Since the past year’s accounts were pub-
lished the directors have put out further
bonus shares, but the latest issue is unlike
previous issues in that it has not been pro-
vided from current earnings. After paying
divs., during the past five years reserves
have been strengthened by only £32,000,
whereas the new one-in-three share-issue
takes £88.890. In this case, the directors
have really capitalised accumulated profit,
which will most likely mean a reduced divi-
dend rate for the future. A few years ago
speculators paid up to £7O for the
£lO shares. Even now the market has
amazing confidence in the possibilities
ahead of the co., and £22 or so is
still being offered for the shares, though
there are net tangible assets of only
£ll 10s. to represent each share. Investors
are thus willing to accept a return of about
4 p.c. p.a. on a 10 p.c. dividend basis in the
expectancy of sweet pickings in the future.
But are there going to be any sweet pickings
for the new-comer? Present paid capital is
£355 560, and if the directors propose to
continue the distribution of 10 p.c. divs.
profits will have to improve considerably if
there’s to be any sugar to sprinkle on the
candv. Lately, of course, the war cost of
paper has cut into earninvs, and the man-
agement has apnarently been unable to
make up the leeway from increased adver-
tising revenue. However, paner supplies are
becoming less expensive, and there are also
indications of an advertising boom. The
extent to which the co. will benefit in this
wmy will depend on what the public thinks
of the D.T. as a newspaper. On the other
side, newspaper production is much more
costly than it used to be. The journalist, for
instance, is not the poorly-paid hack he was
formerly; thoueh it is a reflection on the cos.
which have made fat profits that the scrib-
blers had to form an industrial union and
battle in the courts before anythin?
approaching a reasonable wage was secured.
There is a further reason why the future
should not be proportionately so fat as the
past. The co. nowadays gets its income from
three sources: (1) its newspaper ; (2) rents
from offices in its fine freehold; and (3)
interest on investments. The returns from
the last two are limited, and since this side
of the business has been built up out of all
proportion to the growth of the newspaper
interests, the latter would have to show
vastly improved profits for the co.’s history
to repeat itself. The argument is illustrated
by going back to the first line in the table.
Cap’tal and reserves in 1909 amounted to
£255,078, on which the net profits for the
year returned over 17 p.c. Shareholders’
funds now amount to £392.897, and the co.
would have to make more than double last
year’s disclosed profits to give the same re-
turn or provide similar opportunities for new
investors. As for the old hands, they have
done amazingly well, and with their present
paid capital almost wholly represented by
freehold premises, investments, stock and
cash, they have splendid backing for their
money.
* * » *
The Country Producers’ Seeding Co.,
Ltd. (Sydney), a more or less co-operative
concern dealing in farm and station pro-
duce: —
Bonos
to Con- Written Re-
March, Profit. Dividend, signors. Off. serves.
1912.. €3590 5 p.c. = €984 €869 €1,077
1913.. 6975 7d „ „ 1731 2872 8,449
1914.. 9058 8 ~,,2000 4237 £lOOO 6,270
1915.. 6081 7 „ „ 1750 3498 500 5,603
1916.. 9479 7 „ „ 1750 5295 1000 7,037
1917.. 9081 7 „ „ 1750 4826 1000 8,542
1913.. 8626 7 „ „ 1750 6383 500 9,535
1919.. 9067 7 „ „ 1750 5208 500 11,144
This enterprise represents an attempt on
the part of a number of primary producers
to hold on to profits which would otherwise
go to middlemen. It is nine years old now.
and it has succeeded in its mission to this
extent: it has (1) handed back over£32,ooo
to producers; (2) paid 7 p.c. interest per
annum (except for its first year) on share-
holders’ capital; and (3) strengthened the
business by accumulating £11,144 of reserves.
Nowadays the co. rebates 20 p.c. of wool
commissions (reducing the selling charge to
2 pc.), returns 10 p.c. of the fat-stock com-
missions ' making the selling charge 21 p.c.),
and hands back a slice of the produce earn-
ings. In view of the advantages it offers, it
is surprising that the concern has not pro-
gressed more raoidly. Just at present, of
course, on account of Government pooling
schemes, operations are restricted. In addi-
tion the abnormal conditions entail additional
expense. But, on the other side, higher
prices have meant larger commission earn-
ings. For instance, three years ago the co.
handled 285,463 sheep, 11,989 cattle and
53,787 bales wool, and total revenue for the
year was £39,604. During the past 12 months
£44,024 was earned bv marketing 237,842
Sheep, 10,160 cattle and bales wool.
The additional expense which off-sets
this was incurred through having to
pay for temporary storage and higher
handling charges. The management appa-
rently considers prospects good when
conditions return to normal, and permanent
additions to the co.’s stores are con-
templated. The concern is in a snug posi-
tion, though war Doubles have put a strain
on finances. Three years ago £45.580 was
due to sundry creditors and £65,870 was
owing to the co. At March 31 last, in
addition to sundry debtors of £32,992, the
Central Wool Committee owed £83,481, and
the management had to lean on other people
to the extent of £54,326 more than in 1916.
Going back five years, progress can be sum-
marised in this way :
’’ 1914. 1919.
Liabilities .. .. £25,852 €115,906
Book debts .. .. 24,948 116,473
War Loan .. .. 4,000
Freeholds, stores, etc. 38,695 43M78
Against the last item £4500 has now been
accumulated for depreciation of buildings.
It is a robust young concern doing good
work, and if the management continues to
provide satisfactory service it should be
able to rope in many more co-operators.
*•* * •
Choiseul Plantations, Ltd.—Share-
holders in this co., which is in the Burns-
Philp stable, can breathe a little more
freely now. About eight years ago they
acquired 12,355 acres in the German Soto-
mons—at least, the arrangement with the
German Government was that the co. was to
be allowed to select that area, but full
rights had not been secured when Wilhelm
upset things. After the British occupation,
however, the co. was allowed to proceed and
complete its original arrangement. But the
future was still obscure until a couple of
months ago, when the announcement of the
Peace terms indicated that there was no
likelihood of the German Solomons passing
back to the Hun. All the same, the change
may not be all to the co.’s advantage,
render German rule the co. had tne
right to recruit natives from the Bis-
marcks and German New Guinea. In
1917 there was a labor force of 1241,
but this had been reduced to 844 at the
last balance. A year ago the management
announced that it would not require more
than 600 to 700 in future. During the past
12 months, however, two additional proper-
ties have been acquired, totalling 1936
acres, and considerable new development
wox-k is ahead. So far 5851 acres have been
planted (316,520 cocoanut-trees) and a fur-
ther 404 acres have been cleared. Shortly
the co. will harvest its first crop (13,524
trees are now over five years old; and 49,696
over four years), and an output of 40 to 50
tons copra is expected during the current
year. The co. is in 1000 shares of £lOO
each, and at the latest balance £BO,OOO had
been paid up. Since then a further £5OOO
has been got in, and the remaining £15,000
is to be called up in six monthly instalments.
The acquisition and development of the pro-
perties have run away with £78,101, and
administration and general exes, have taken
£4514. So far it has been a matter of ladl-
ing out cash; now, though a lot of develop-
ment work still remains to be done, the
outgoing will ease, while as the trees mature
income will steadily expand, provided hurri-
canes or other disasters don’t hit the con-
cern.
#*" * *
W. E Smith, Ltd., formed to take over an
old-established printing and stationery busi-
ness in Sydney as from October, 1910 (the
deficit represented goodwill and preliminary
exes.) :—•
Written
Profits. Dividends. Off. Deficit.
Apr., 1913 ..£3867 3 p.c. = £1125 £747 £11,305
Oct., 1913 .. 3182 3 „,. 1125 1017 10,265
Apr., 1914 .. 2268 Nil 1236 9,233
Loss.
Oct., 1914 . . 98 Nil 1238 10,569
£30,000 of capital written off.
Assets written down, £19,431.
Profit. Reserves.
Apr., 1915 .. 1656 Nil 627 1,129
Oct., 1915 .. 2066 Nil 539 2,656
Apr., 1916 .. 2222 5 p.c. = 1125 537 3,216
Oct., 1916 .. 3204 5 „ „ 1125 549 4,746
Apr., 1917 .. 2873 5 „ „ 1125 455 6,039
Oct., 1917 . . 3161 74 „ „ 1687 459 7,054
Apr., 1918 .. 3781 8j „ „ 1875 463 8,497
Oct., 1918 . . 4347 124 ~ „ 2812 462 9,570
Apr., 1919 . . 4869 12) ~ „ 2812 471 11,156
This co. continues to show improved results.
It made a disastrous start When in 1910 it
took over an old proprietary business and
had £18,020 of its paid capital of £75,000
represented by goodwill and other intangible
items. Some of the stocks and plant were
found to be worth only a fraction of what
they stood at in the books; in fact, some of
the “stock” was quite valueless. After the
concern had been going four years the direc-
tors wisely decided to have a clean up, and
Ss. per £1 share, representing goodwill and
over-valuation of plant, etc., was lopped off.
Gradually the business has been built up,
and the gross trading profit for the past
half was £19,752 compared with £11,741
for the April term of 1915. Though wages
and other costs and taxes have increased,
new management has been able to steadily
increase the profit margin, and for the past
half net profits were equal to almost 20 p.c.
p.a. on the written-down capital. Share-
holders have not been greedy since their
affairs were straightened out, and while
£l2 561 has been distributed, no less than
£11.156 has been put by. This shows in
another way the effect of this policy:—
Apr.,’ls. Oct.,’lB. Apr.,’l9.
Fixed assets .. .. £15,174 £11,979 £11,639
Liquid assets (inc. stock) .. 54,624 66,926 75.120
Liabilities 23,669 21,522 27,790
The co. is now carrying heavy stocks;
£51,244 was in this item at April 30, com-
pared with £32,155 four years ago. War
prices ax*e no doubt chiefly responsible for
the increase, and one of the difficulties ahead
will be to work off the expensive stuff on to
customers at a profit before the cost of sup-
plies slumps. But on present, appearances
there isn’t going to be anything like the
slump that at one time seemed probable.
* * * *
The Westralian Trustee, Executor
and Agency Co. (Perth) :
Dividends and Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
Oet., 1911. .£lB9B 20 p.c.= £1155 £743 £l4 081
Apl., 1912.. 1691 28 „„ 1628 63 14 144
Oet:, 1912.. 1461 184,,,, 1155 - 306 14'450
Apl., 1913.. 1888 26§ „ „ 1680 £219 14,439
Oct., 1913.. 1757 17J „ „ 1150 607 15 046
Apl., 1914.. 1587 254 ~,, 1650 14i983
Oct., 1914.. 881 10 „ „ 700 181 15 164
Apl., 1015.. 1207 10 „„ 700 567 15,731
Oct, 1915.. 1573 10 „ „ 700 - 873 16 604
Apl., 1916.. 1698 244,,,, 1700 16.602
Oct., 1916., 1102 10 „ 750 352 16 954
Apl., 1917.. 1721 234 ~,, 1750 16.925
Oct, 1917.. 2047 10 „ „ 800 1247 18 172
Apl., 1918.. 2013 224 ~,, 1800 243 18 415
Oct., 1918.. 2093 10 „ „ 850 77 Xl7l 19 586
Apl.. 1919.. 1426 2G „ „ 1850 19.162
That last line needs explanation. There has
been no falling off in profits—in fact, the
office has probably never before had such a
prosperous term. Possibly because share-
holders have been enjoying such an affluent


Wolfram, Scheelite
and Molybdenite.
PRICES AT PRODUCING CENTRES:
MOLYBDENITE:
85 per cent, or over, 100/- for each
unit MOS 2.
WOLFRAM AND SCHEELITE.
65 per cent, or over, 52/6 for each
unit WO3.
Enquiries Invited relative to
LOWER GRADES of the above
Minerals.
DALGETY § CO. LTD.,
Commonwealth Government Agents.
The Pacific Cable Board
BEST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, etc.
A “WEEK-END” rate is now available
from Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada, also for the United States of
America. to be posted from Canada.
WEEK-END messages are accepted up to
midnight on Saturday for delivery in Great
Britain and Canada on the following
Monday morning.
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC.”
Daily
Ordinary. Deferred. Week-end.
Gt. Britain .. 3/-
New Zealand.. 4ki
Canada .. 2/4
1/0
/ 9d. (minimum
115/-, 20 words)
1/2
J 7d. (minimum
) 11/8,20 words)
U.S.A 2/4 to 2/8 1/2 to 2/4 {
, (11/8,20 words)
Week-end Service with, the United Kingdom
and U.S.A. has been temporarily suspended.
Argentine, Brazil. Chili and Peru, West
Indies, Central America and other rates on
application. Cable forms, Deferred and
Week-end Regulations mav be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
77 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1346 (3 lines).
Queen’s House, Queen St., Melbourne. Tel. 2588.
J. MILWaKD. Manager in tb" Pacific
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Did vou ever grope in the dark for the chain oi
switch "that turns on the electric light ? It isn t
necessary any more! Radieye the new guuung
light—will guide vour hand unerringly to the pull-
chain or switch-button. Radieye is a small attach-
ment made to fit any pull-socket chain oi sv* itch-
plate. It can be attached without tools, and, since
it contains genuine radium, does not require an
opportunity to recharge from natural or artificial
light sources. It is permanently luminous. Come in
and see it. Australian General Electric Company,
Wentworth Avenue, Sydney; and corner of Queen
and Little Collins Streets, Melbourne— Advt.
Aluminoferric works wonders! One pound will
clarify 2000 gallons of water. You throw it into
the water and allow it to dissolve. In about two
hours all the impurities will start to precipitate and
the water will be left clear and pure. Will not
harm cattle or stock. Use it in very small propor-
tions when clearing water for household use. - Sold
by storekeepers everywhere—or direct from William
Adams & Co. Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane, Perth. — Advt. [2
* * * *
For grinding all classes of material in Ball Mills
and Tube Mills it is necessary to have a suitable
grinding medium. The mines in West Australia,
also numerous cement plants, are using balls of forged
tyre steel, and find that they give excellent results.
These balls may be obtained in various sizes from
the Austral Otis Engineering Co. of Melbourne, who
have put in a special plant for forging them, and
can give delivery of most- sizes from stock. This
company also manufactures forged steel shoes and
dies for battery work. — Advt. [3
Pioneer Wood Stave Pipe.—A Record Delivery!
An order for 2) miles of Bin. Pioneer Wood
Stave Pipe from the N. S. Wales Government
Railways and Tramways was recently completed
in a period of eight days. The above
pipes were required urgently to convey water to
the township of Goulburn, where the reservoir was
nearly depleted. We are prepared to supply large
quantities of Wood Stave Pipe at short notice. Send
for illustrated Catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe
CO. Ltd. (Head Office), Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove,
N.S.W. P.O. Address: Box 1576 G.P.0., Sydney.
Contractors to all State Governments. — Advt.
* * * »
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink’s Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723. — Advt.
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.— Advt.
* * * *
Build “Leplastrier” long-lasting, modern machin-
ery-made roads. Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Head
Office, Sydney.— Advt.
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assav
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B. Selby & Co.,
Ltd.. 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street, Melb.— Advt.
* * * *
T. H. Palmer, 8.E., Fel. Chem. Soc., etc., consult-
ing _ engineer, valuing, organising, technical advice,
mining, metallurgy, flotation and selective flotation
processes, Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 Pitt
Street, Sydney. Cables and Telegrams: “Remlap,
Melbourne.”— Advt.
* * * *
The Sydnev Export Co., 68i Pitt Street, Sydney,
has a specially-designed plant for the treatment of
complex ores. Separation of wolfram, tin, copper,
molybdenite and bismuth a specialty. Highest price
given, prompt cash settlement.— Advt.
/c'AREBQfiNTQ
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Los* of Profits
insure in
Th ‘ 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
CF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital . .£250,000
Subscribed Capital .. 194,235
Paid-up Capital .. 96,497
Income (Cross) 1918 .. 457,852
Established 1910.
AGENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney
When making a Will or Settlement
appoint The
Union Trustee
Company of Australia Ltd.
Your EXECUTOR or TRUSTEE.
The only Trustee Company with branches
in more than one State.
NEW SOUTH WALES. VICTORIA.
QUEENSLAND.
Sydney Office, 48 Young Street.
Directors: Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar,
K.C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman) ; Hon. James
Ashton, M.L.C.; Hon. H. Y. Braddon,
M.L.C.; F. B. S. Falkinkr, M.IT.R., James
Kidd; W. H. Mackay, R. M. Pitt, and
Duncan Sinclair.
V. G. Watson,
Assistant Manager.
J. Maik,
Manager.
A. Victor Leggo & Co.
Melbourne—Sydney —Brisbane.
Manufacturers Metallurgists Merchants.
Exporters and Importers.
Specialties: INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS, INDUSTRIAL MINERALS,
ORES, METALS AND RAW MATERIALS.
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Other Goods.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
run, the directors decided that it would be
a birthing to throw a trifle to the office -
boy. So 10 p.c. on salaries has been handed
round, taking £668 of the half’s net profit
of £2094. The dividend proper w r as at the
rate of 10 p.c. p.a., but the co. is building
up its capital out of current profits and
reserves, and a bonus of Is. per share has
been distributed and simultaneously called
up. This makes the 20,000 50s. shares paid
to 18s. In addition to its capital the co.
has £19,162 of reserves; so there are funds
of £3^,162 —mostly in public securities and
premises—to protect clients in case any
officer takes the wrong turning. And should
that not be enough to fill all the holes caused
by someone colliding with the trusts, there
is a further £32.000 of capital callable. But
l!:e co. offers clients more than that: it em-
ploys experts to handle the various problems
that arise, and it provides for continuity,
for a trustee co.’s span of life isn’t limited
fro three-score years and ten. Naturally
AVestralia is gradually realising the benefits
afforded by the trustee co., and the value
of the estates administered by this concern
has expanded from £106,843 in 1899 to
£1,198,964 10 years ago, and to £2,349,720
at the latest balance.
* * * *
The Australasian Institute of Mining
Engineers was recently invited to link up
with a proposed Institute of Engineers. But
the mine men decided almost unanimously to
cold-shoulder the suggestion. Instead, they are
going to launch out, and, so that metallurgi-
cal chemists, geologists, mine surveyors and
others can be got under its wing, the title
is to be changed to Institute of Mining and
Metallurgy. Local committees are to be
formed in all cities and on all mining, fields,
and the “scope and usefulness of the institute
is to be extended.” B. H. South’s manager,
W. E. Wainwright, is president.
* * * *
A day or two ago the Queensland Govern-
ment hoisted its coat-of-arms on the Chil-
lagoe properties, and already a manager is
overhauling the old disaster with a view to
getting the smelters going again. And for the
present The Bulletin leaves it at that.
* * * *
Great Britain, Emmaville (N.S.W.), dur-
ing its latest half averaged only £l5l per ton
for its output, compared with £256 during
the previous six months, and as costs could
not be got down to any extent the co. netted
a profit of only £l2 7s. per ton instead of
£B5 13s. for the previous run. So on nearly
60| tons tin won there was a net profit of
but £798. Shareholders got one shilling div.
(£500). In a few weeks the Britain Main
Lead will have been stripped bare, and the
plant is then to be shifted to the Back Lead.
Y-Creek is feeling the pinch of a sliding mar-
ket, for the 58,169 cub. yds. handled there
gave only .941 b. per yd., compared with
2.061 b. per yd. got out of 39,317 cub. yd.
sluiced by the Britain plant. The co. is in
a snug position. Paid capital is £5OOO
(10,000 shares of 10s.) and there are £5035
of reserves after handing out the current div.
When the accounts closed the co. owed £4083
and had £7597 in War Loan, cash, unsold tin
and stores. Mine property has been written
down to £854, and about £4OO of that repre-
sents last year’s purchase of 20 acres on Y-
Creek, which will provide an additional couple
of years’ work.
* * * *
About five years ago the Ponds Creek Co.,
in 32,000 shares of 55., took over the Old
Rothschilds tin area in the Emmaville dis-
trict (N.S.W.), and in a boom tin market
it has lately been doing very well. Despite
difficult ground and a hard, uneven bottbm,
manager MacTavish sluiced 51,626 cub. yds.
for the year ended March 31, and won 54J
tons concentrates. This works out at 2.371 b.
ground, and as the market price averaged
just over £2OO per ton, the co. got £10,960
for its concentrates. With £228 received
from engine hire, total revenue after deduct-
ing realisation charges was just over £lO,OOO.
Deducting working and management exes,
and writing £538 off plant, there remained
a net profit of £2532. Three 3d. divs. took
£l2OO, and £1023 was absorbed to make
good previous P. and L. debits. Since the
accounts closed another £BOO has been
passed out to shareholders. Paid capital is
£6400 (the ss. shares are called up to 45.),
and plant and property have swallowed
£7734. At Marcn 31 the co.’s position was
fairly easy : it owed £1791 and had £1650 in
liquid assets.
* * * *
“5.0.5.”: The objects of the proposed
Cobar Mineral Exploration Co. (B. 12/6/T9)
are certainly worthy. Such a scheme has
been discussed locally for many years, and
it is a great pity action was not taken earlier
when money flowed like water in the West-
ern N. S. Wales town. According to the
prospectus, it is evident that the promoters
expect the Government to hand out a large
wad of the cash required. It may not be
impertinent to remark here that large bodies
of ore are already known to exist in the dis-
trict, but nothing beyond applying for the
blocks and dodging labor conditions has been
done for years.
Mammoth Moiybdenite, Yetholine(N.S.W.),
is in trouble. The management says it can-
not secure sufficient labor, and that the plant
has been working only two shifts in con-
sequence. This is only a minor inconveni-
ence compared with the fact that the portion
of the property carrying the best values has
been declared unsafe and that the ore
lately got out has been giving poor returns.
But the knock-out blow came recently when
the buying agents for the Commonwealth
Government refused to accept concentrates
under 85 p.c. molybdenite. So the manage-
ment has shut down, and an already sick
market has collapsed so badly that 20s. fully
paids have got down to Is. 3d. and the con-
tribs. (paid to 95.) to Id. The co.’s head-
quarters are in Maoriland (the Federal
Treasury knows why) ; and the directors are
calling shareholders together to consider the
freeze. So far the co. has not shown a sign
of fulfilling prospectus anticipations. In-
stead of the deposit giving the expected
1.7 p.c. of concentrates the average has been
about .25 p.c. Also, the original scheme was
to put up 100-head of stamps, and so far only
20-head have been expected.
* « * #
Kingsgate Molybdenite (N.S.W.) has
been given till February, 1920, to part up
its instalment of £5OOO to vendor Yates.
This relieves the tension, by giving the. co.
time for the new plant to be got on the
move and for Tom Rollason to find out
what’s ahead for molybdenite.
* * * #
Manager Giblin, of the Edna May Central
(W.A.), keeps yields even: that for May
working out at 455., compared with 48s. 3d.
for April, and 445. for March. He is now
putting more quartz through, both the sweet-
ening and the extra quantity coming from
the opening up of the shoots on the Consoli-
dated boundaiy. Hei'e his assays over a face
of 6ft. give anything tfp to 605., so the old
optimist crowd are counting chickens once
again. No one can say that the patchiness
of these shoots as proved by Aldridge over
the boundary departs with depth. Driving
along for 33ft. Giblin tells of 60s. dirt, but
the grade then tails down to 505.; so another
10ft. may further shave down probable pro-
fits. Giblin is now opening up the plat for
the new level at the main shaft, but it will
be near the end of the year before he can
reach stone. No more has been heal’d of
whether he will let the New reef alone be-
cause of the water trouble, and, instead, cross-
cut straight for the Consolidated’s Middle
and Holmes reefs. Such a programme would
ease up the water problem ; but, after all, the
old deep-lead method of putting in effective
bulk-head doors may be followed. By the
time that has to be done Edna May will have
ripped out the last of the stone on the bottom
level. The Tricks party in the Edna May know
the game of mining to the fifth decimal point.
If they want to play the waiting game after
having done so much heavy pumping for the
field, who can say them nay? That policy
will affoi’d the chance to squeeze terms if
they feel so inclined.
* * * *
They come and go. After the usual boost
following on the sampling of an optioned
property nothing has been heard of the Mt.
Rstnkin’s new venture at Southern Cross
(W.A.). A Government subsidy was pro-
mised at the end of last yeai*, but apparently
the Mines Department thought better of it,
as the co. has been silent about the matter
ever since. An option on an ochre show
near Cue recently caused a sudden rise in
Princess Royals, but they fell with a thud
almost immediately. Others likely to follow
suit are (1) Empress; (2) Battler; and (3)
Edna May Consolidated Extended. All
three have options on sui’face shows south
of Southern Cross, and even if the ventures
have the makings of mines—xvhich is ex-
tremely doubtful —not one of the three cos.
has money enough to prove them.
* * * *
Gwalia _ Central (W.A.) never tires of
boosting its prospects or promising share-
holders divs., but somehow they don’t materi-
alise. About 12 months ago it w T as announced
that the mill then in course of erection was
going to make everyone connected with the
co. wealthy, but after taking months to
get about £l5OO out of 400 tons crushing
stopped and it was given out that the co.
was busy acquix-ing new options. Mean-
time “encouraging” reports are being pub-
lished in London, but they are not viewed
with a friendly eye.
■* * * #
After further consideration the Westi’alian
Minister for Mines has removed the embargo
against the importation of certain classes of
explosives, and the price of dynamite there
is expected to come down right away. Some
interested parties are urging the Chamber of
Mines to import explosives in large quanti-
ties and distribute them at cost.
* * * »
Deebook’s flag flutters down, for its dredge
has been sold to the Taiping Co., of Penang.
The directors point out that since the Katoo
and Bagnon cos.’ plants and another Dee-
book dredge left, the upkeep of the Renong
establishment has been thrown on the remain-
ing dredge. Further, Miles Junior has bored
several properties over which the co. held
options, and all have proved duffers. He is
a chip of the old block in sniffing out a good
deal, for he writes the Deebook Board that
it is better to sell the plant for £83,000 now
than wait for normal times when £lO,OOO
would be hard to get. Deebook is to get its
£38,000 in monthly instalments, plus £5OOO
for stores; and this is set against the cost
of the plant, which, as shown in the books in
May, 1918, was £33,152. As young Miles in-
fers, it is a good wade out. But memory
sadly recalls Cap’n Teddy Miles’s report on
the Deebook area:— ■
After putting down 30 scout bores covering
approximately 300 acres....l commenced close bor-
ing in the neighborhood of the sites selected for
starting Nos. 1 and 2 dredges, with very satisfac-
tory results. Sixty bores spread over 300 acres
give an average of a small fraction under 21b. per
cub. yd., of which 45 acres in the vicinity of the
site for No. 1 dredge averages a fraction over 31b.
per cub. yd.
To-day the Deebook No. 2 dredge is plug-
ging away on the Ronpibon pup area, work-
ing jointly for the Ronpibon and Debook cos.,
and now No. 1 plant is to pass into the
ownership of the Taiping Co. There are
100.000 shares in the Deebook, and small
profits are coming in from the Ronpibon area,
but expectations over the Deebook look to be
thin stuff unless Captain Miles can provide
fresh inducements. Incidentally, London
waded into Deebook in 1914, when Lionel
Robinson’s crowd took 10,000 shares at 48s.
and got options over 5000 shares at 535. and
5000 at 575.
* * * *
After a bad market run Sloane and
Scotchman’s (Vie.) is facing the jumps in
rare form. The claim embraces the Magdala-
Moonlight shoots which, made Staweil a
town. Several of Magdala’s old crowd have
hung on to shares during the long eclipse,
believing in the mine even after Dick Hamil-
ton had turned it down. Collins-street now
holds a swag of the stock, as it waded in
deeply early this year on the striking of the
Extended Shoot at above the 1200 ft. Boulder-
boring line, and because of decent stone cut
when driving north beyond the Magdala
shoot. But there was a collapse when the
ore got to the mill, for the stamps failed to
back up the sampling dish,. Overhead, too,
the Extended stone ran poor. The present
revival in form is due to the striking of a
make of stone parallel to the Extended shoot
carrying values running up to £7. But a
record for patchiness sticks, and a drop to
ounce stone will shove prices back with a
thud. Manager Couchman has been negoti-
ating with De Bavay’s for a treatment
scheme for mill slimes and the old tailing
dumps. If this comes off, the mine wilj soon
have a second string for the market to pinv
on, as there is at least 100,000 tons of
material in the dumps of a grade of from
12s. to 15s.
* * * *
G. Wallace Orabbe, once of the Inverell
(N.S.W.) diamond boom, crops up in Queen-
street now and again with an odd mining-
float. One of his last was the Glen-
garry (Vic.). Now he fathers a syn-
dicate to give the old Homeward Bound,
at Diamond Creek (Vic.), another run.
Most of the men in the show seem to
be public servants who either have saved
a bit or think their salaries will stand
the strain of a minor mining jag. Diamond
Creek is only 30 miles from Collins-street,
and it is because the One Tree Hill block
next door is yielding a few tons of 3oz. stone
that Wallace Crabbe appears. As the reef
is so narrow, the best to be said is that he
does well to run his co. on syndicate lines.
* * * *
Magnet, Waratah (Tas.), has been spend-
ing its cash on hydro-electric and other equip-
ment. The future of the show depends on
the deeper levels, for the bulk of the crushing
stuff sent to the mill last half-year was
drawn from No. 12 level, where the forma-
tion carries veins of galena for a width of
50ft. The mill treated 3790 tons in six
months for 325 tons concentrates, averaging.
lOOoz. silver and 55 p.c. lead. With high-
grade crudes the output totalled 79,2060 z.
silver and 414 tons lead. No. 13 level has
not been proved, but driving for the lode has
been started.
* * * *
South Aus. is threatened with big cement
works on Kangaroo Island. The United
Cement Syndicate has secured permission
from the Federal Treasury to float a co. with
a capital of £200,000. The works are to
be erected at the Bay of Shoals, which is
about a couple of miles from Kingscote.
Apparently the materials available are of
very fine quality; but coal will have to be
brought to the island. S. Australia’s other
cement works, at Marino, have been in more
or less successful operation for 20 years.
* * * *
Though since the beginning of the vear
Mt. Morgan had been speeding up its gold
output to provide sustenance till the copper
marker recovers, Queensland’s gold yield
continues to tumble. For the five months to
31 J he v State ’ s production totalled
°f>6B<oz. (fine) worth £228,048, a falling off
or 182boz. and £7756 in value compared with
the same period in 1918.
* * * *
Old Tyrconnell (N.Q.) reports a month’s
clean-up of 1540 z. gold bullion from 230 tons,
f his compares indifferently with returns early
. the the best being 840 tons for
* -A;! st year 3550 tons were crushed
tor £16,1 1 9, and gold and silver recovered bv
cyanide gave £1596. The lengthening of
the lode at the 200 ft. and 205 ft. levels and
the opening of a new level at diUft. has
bucked up shareholders.
* #


THE PRECIPICE OF PROGRESS.


A Good Opening
on Any Occasion
ABBOTS
LAGER
<: zti(?s3e(?z r ti)/Y&oi/taTP/Va/"
Brewed From
Pure Malt flops' Only
WMW*,
THE DEAF HEAR! f
The Joy and Happiness
of perfect hearing are
only appreciated by
those who have lost it.
The
Mears Earphone
makes it yours. The
Latest Model 96-Tone
Mears Earphone
*W)U
In the hollow of the
hand or attached to
ear with light head
band.
with its great range of
tone and power, can be regulated by a touch
ot the finger to suit the hearing for every
occasion and for all stages of deafness.
1 he MEARS EARPHONE catches and inten-
sifies even the least whisper, and enables the
deaf to hear lectures, sermons and plays clear-
ly and distinctly. Small, compact, and incon-
spicuous. The MEARS EARPHONE is
recommended by leading Aurists, and manv
prominent Australian citizens have had the
Mears Earphone in daily use for Seven
Years, with continued satisfaction.
A Lengthy Guarantee with each Instrument
FREE TRIAL l
Call and. test it, or write for booklet post free.
4™ Earphone Co., Bernard's Bldgs.,
Tel. 3916 City. 387 George Street, Svdney.
the
Hotel Sydney
(SYDNEY)
Is one of the largest, most modern
and best equipped in Australia.
It is situated opposite the Railwav Station
nncj is centra] to everywhere.
ACCOMMODATION FOR 400 GUESTS.
Quiet, Coo] and Comfortable.
Hot and Cold Water, Day and Night, in every
Bedroom.
Half an acre of Glorious Hoof
Garden.
Tariff from 12/6 per day.
Have you Lunched or Dined at the “Sydney”?
Management E. T. CM ELSE MAN.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Caotain Archibald Smith, at the bottom
of the sea since March, 1917, with his bat-
tered Otaki. has been honored with a post-
humous V.C. for putting up a fight which
even Fritz described as being as “gallant as
naval history can relate.” Refusing to
capitulate to the raider Moewe, the game
skipper of the Union Co.’s boat did the
Richard Grenville act by fighting to the
last, finally going down with colors flying
on the burning steamer. He will be re-
membered in Australian shipping circles,
h f touched-in round the coast in charge
of N.Z. Shipping Co.’s vessels from Canada.
A man with a quiet, genial manner
he didnt suggest the hero. But the pure
gold was there.
Big Gordon Rorke, S. J., a favorite master
at Xavier College (Melb.), passed out on
June 10 from flu. He had a voice that
matched his physical proportions, and with
it he stimulated sport in the field and stirred
the boys to sing the school songs that find an
echo in memory’s halls long after school
has been left behind. He had intended to
take up some of the tough missionary work
ot his Order when he could get a transfer
trom educational work.
Changes come quickly in the swiftly-
expanding Commonwealth Bank. M. B
Young, the brainy Adelaide manager, be-
comes an inspector; and Colonel P. W.
Vaughan, of Hobart, follows him in S. Aus
Vaughan, pictured herewith, has moved
about a lot more than the average Keeper
of the Overdraft. Born in Hereford he was
taken to bydney as a youngster, started run-
ning round with the
exchanges on leaving
school, and then chased
excitement in S’Africa
during the Boer War.
T hat argument
brought him a com-
mission. He was. run-
ning the Newcastle
branch of the Com-
monwealth Bank when
the Hun became
cheeky. He went off
as a major to Egypt,
got a further step in
France, and on return-
ing in 1917 was sent
to Hobart. Adelaide
will find him handy
with a golf stick and
as a Bed Cross organ-
iser.
COLONEL P. W.
VAUGHAN,
Manager of the
Commonwealth Bank,
Tasmania, greets
Tassy’s returning
soldiers.
Orcharclist and hop-grower W. E. Shoo-
bridge, who has held one of the Franklin
(Tas.) Assembly Labor seats for a couple
of Parliaments, lost the railway-pass this
tune. A. G. Ogilvy, a youthful Hobart law-
yer, annexed the veteran’s tab by running
second to Dave Dicker. The last-named
attains a top-of-the-poll prominence by way
of recompense for the things he suffered
during the war. A third Labor seat for
Franklin seems likely to fall to Ben Wat-
kins. ex-whip of the Labor Party and
brother-in-law to the just-defeated W. A.
Woods.
Gone to the final balance at 84, T. B.
Gaden, till his retirement in 1908 chief
inspector and assistant-manager of the Com-
mercial Bank of Sydney. Born in New-
foundland, he was a youngster of 22 when
he joined the Commercial in T>7. When he
gave banking best, at 73, there were old col-
leagues of 40 and even 50 years’ experience
to say the kind words that cheer a man at
the end of his work. Among them was
his brother-in-law, veteran T. A. Dibbs, sti’l
active at 87.
Alfred Chandler, the Bayswater nursery-
man who, beating Ilagelthorn, won the
South-Eastern seat in the Vic. Leg. Council
is a son of the soil all right. Years ago
his grandfather had an orchard in Malvern,
on an area now closely-packed with shops
and dwellings. Alfred’s father, William
started a nursery at Bayswater when he was
old enough to work for himself. ITe used
to be a well-known figure at Paddy’s Market,
where he sold his floral wares off the tail of
the old farm-waggon. Bill Chandler had an
immense family, and now and then caused a
stir by turning up with an all-Chandler
THE INTELLIGENCE OF THE FORCE.
SCANDALISED CONSTARLE : "Good Heavens.
sir! Where’s your trousers?”
PROFESSOR GEEBUNG: “There! There! I
knew I’d forgotten something. What a
wonderful memory you have, constable!”
cricket-eleven to play a game with the Mal-
vern club’s team. There were 10 sons, the
new M.L.C. being one of them, and Bill
himself completed the outfit. That sort jf
family connection is worth a lot in country
politics.
\ ietoria’s Bryan O’Loghlen, whose widow
has lately died, was the third baronet. The
first was Sir Michael, Master of the Rolls:
the friend of O’Connell, and the first R.C.
appointed to the Bench after the passing of
the Emancipation Bill (1829). His son,
Colman, second baronet, was a bachelor, a
barrister and one of those who defended
O.Connell and others in the 1844 State
trials. On Colman’s death in 1877 Bryan
became the third baronet, and was in his
absence elected to the seat for Clare in the
Commons vacant through Colman’s death,
lie never took the seat, however, and eventu-
aHy it was declared vacant on the ground
that Sir Bryan held an office of profit—
Attorney-General in Victoria—under the
Crown.
Westralia’s veteran campaigner is Lieut.-
CofoneJ J. A. Campbell, whose record com-
menced when he served with the Camerons
in the Indian Mutiny, 1857-1859. He fought
the north-west frontier of India in 1863,
through the Egyptian campaign in 1888, and
was stid sprightly enough to command Com-
monwealth troops on transport ships during
the Hun’s chastisement.
O. N. B. Gurnett, just appointed sec. to
the Australian (Sydney) Gas Co., in succes-
sion to R. J. Lukey (retired), is only the
fourth to hold the office since the foundation
of the co. 32 years ago. The founder of the
co., the Rev. Ralph Mansfield, had the billet
for 40-odd years.
Little Collins, best remembered as Com-
mander, who has been thrown a knighthood,
was judged by the press gang and found to
be not a bad sort when he was Secretary of
Defence, first for Victoria and then for
the Commonwealth. The staff at the
Department was his friend, and Frank
Savage, his Chief Clerk, liked him so well
that he found a way of going to London
with him when he became Secretary to the
High Commissioner. In Melbourne the
Commander liked to go to the Melbourne
Club for lunch ; but he didn’t mind carrying
a pair of old boots to give to a distressed
blue-water man he might meet on the way.
J. J. Hayes, an old identity on the com-
mercial side of journalism in Sydney, has
died at Cremorne, aged 82. Over half a
century ago he had a newsagency in George-
street, about where Beard, Watson’s are now.
He was the business rep. of Parkes’s
Empire in that quarter. Later on, when
Sam Bennett established the Evening News,
Hayes joined the commercial staff, and had
been with it ever since.
Arrived in Aussie, by the City of Poona,
after four years’ inactive service abroad,
Sapper Peter, tortoise,
and maseotte of the
Field Engineers of the
First Division. Peter
joined up with the A.I.F.
on Lemnos in 1915 and
has been with his unit
ever since, with a term
on the Canal and the rest,
of the time in France,
lie has been through all
the big stunts, and' - came
out unharmed, except
for a chip off his over-
coat, which happened
when blown up with six
of his Digger friends,
who were killed. Peter’s
usual location was at
cook’s headquarters, and
a shell case helped to
anchor him to the spot.
He is an expert in dug-
outs, burrowing in for
the winter. One season
he was missing for about
three months, but the vil-
lagers were notified and
kept watch for his reap-
pearance in the Spring,
when he was returned to
the unit. On furlough
in Blighty he travelled
in the company of Sapper
Ji m Mcß ride, M.M.,
who carried him round in
a gaspirator case, and
later brought him to Aus-
sie. Peter slept from the
port of embarkation to
Suez, where things got
warmer, and now he is
billeted at Taronga Park,
pending an honorable discharge. He owns
a disc and four service chevrons, which
are to be shown on his coat directly.
Dr. Diamond Jenness, who is on a flying
home-visit to Maoriland, has an aoDetite for
travel. lie studied anthropology in the
Pacific Islands; then tripped to the Arctic
with Stefansson to inquire into the ways of
the Esquimaux. Returning® to less civilised
parts he found the war on, joined up with
the Canadian army and came through with-
out perforation. Jenness promises to put
his knowledge in book-form when he returns
to a job that waits for him in Canada.
Meantime he is holidaying in the old home
at Lower Hutt.
Dean Hay, of St. David's (Hobart), who
becomes bishop of the Speck, is 52, was born
in Durham, and looks as strong as an ox.
He came to Queensland with Bishop Webber
and started to become an Australian as
rector of Laidley in 1895. Later he toiled
m the Lord’s canefield at Bundaberg, then
gravitated via Warwick to the canonry of
Brisbane Cathedral in 1909. Two years
ago he went to the Speck to replace Dean
Kite at St. David’s, and despite his Low
Church views has made so many friends that
Synod unanimously invited him to wear the
apron.
Lieut. Guy D’Oyly-Hughes, flag-lieutenant
to Commodore Dumaresq, of the Australia,
was one of the few to pass the minefields of
the Dardanelles. He was second in com-
mand ot the submarine Ell. They
entered the Golden Horn, got through to
Constantinople, and returned to the Fleet in
the Mediterranean—-the first to do it. The
Australian AE2 was the first to pass the
Dardanelles mines and enter the Sea of Mar-
mora, but she didn’t get back.
Plucking up courage Bowser has put
through an Order-in-Council appointing Dr.
Baldwin Government Astronomer of Vic-
toria. He has had a long wait since
Baracchi threw up the job.
CAB ENA, Gaud Mayor of Melbourne.
Recently-dead George F. Williamson, of
Sydney, was admitted as a solicitor in
1890, during the lifetime of his father,
John, who began practice in 1866. The
family in early days was established on The
Rocks, where its founder was a bootmaker.
John, who arrived in Sydney when but two
years old, was educated at Lyndhurst R.C.
College and then went on the staff of the
People’s Advocate, a Radical paper which
backed up Dr. Lang. Afterwards he served
articles with R. W. Robberds, an old-time
solicitor. _ In due time two sons joined him
in his business: and one is left to carry it oil.
Thomas Burgoyne, who had a 92nd birth-
day last week, is one of Adelaide’s remark-
able old men. He has only been out of
Parliament the last two years, after about
JO years in the S.A. Assembly for one dis-
trict, and he still writes letters to the papers
on political questions.
Attorney-General Draper, K.C., won the
nest Perth by-election in a canter. J. K,
irowell, the little man who toddled against
him. is facially a small edition of Acting-
Prune Minister Watt. The resemblance be-
gins and ends at the outside of the frontis-
piece; for Powell _is a single-taxer, Free-
trader and small circumstance barely notice-
able on the political landscape,
One of the Orders-in-Council Governor
Stanley signed while transacting business in
his bedroom during his illness authorised
Lob Droll, a literary clerk in the Education
Department, to indulge his hobby without
tear of contravening the Public Service
Act. He is now at liberty to contribute
articles, stories and verse” to magazines
and newspapers. His present literarv work
is the report of the Fisheries Commission.
T J^ i °A t c, G l°, rge F sV s ; ter > wll ° got into the
las. Assembly in 1916 as secretary of the
f 1 “ ed Soldiers, failed to hold his seat at
Srowdpn 1 r‘ ectlolJ C , hG other day. Eccles
S k T h u 18 . a or there-
abouts, beat the pioneer soldier-M.H.A. bv a
new rt • J> ter was almost sure of the
Pat f atlon portfolio which the Lee
Goveinment proposes to create; as things
tS of n T d ° l t' Snowden ( a Political pro-
murned in- J ° neS ’ , knight « and the only
the Hole! r tl i < T Nationalist side of
the House) may be pulled into the Cabinet.
As a service mountaineer, J. II Starlinv
S° to aS tV < f'r e<l G f«^, Steward' lls '
Council " and , cle , rk of th e Executive
ofTck. (£ H J e°
clerk in ftii vu t V as a junior
e w-i Department when
rfne iu md of 16, and drew 15s. a week
?nd WWt t tll u n ° d up in * sll °rt jacket
of the Sn™ ke i' S ’ h ® rai ? rin SS around most
,° siaphers 111 the building. Shortly
went over t tn n E l e°d nW T 1 n h was established he
went over to Federal Government House as
PTOcSd IS tn t 0 r he i ° ffic . ia , l 8ea ’ and then he
proceeded to climb— with the great advan-
nKt «- g '» ** S
THE DREAM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I had my dream. To-day it shattered lies,
Hidden away beneath the blue-veined lids
That press too close, too close upon his eyes.
They were my all-in-all, my dream and he;
I nursed them both, and as I watched them grow
I went along my way rejoicingly.
And always I would hug them to my heart—
The Boy, and that which one day he would be;
tor in my mind they never were apart.
But close, and ever closer, they would press,
Till all I lived and had my being for
Was him, and him alone, and his success!
Vet here I kneel beside him on the floor;
And all 1 wait for now—the sound of wheels,
The coming of a hearse before the door.
While anguish with her gaunt arms holds me tight,
For all that mortal is of him will share
With that poor dream of mine his grave to-night.
N'.S.W.
RUBY GILL.


e
o
- '*%
. I
* ' 1
: :
m
mamsSSm
/ + _ '
:
,
IS
IS I
1 H
HI
A'-.V-WvW'
W\V
«W
--w*
». <ssj£
¥/
ft
w.
iwj
Pure
VmimA
CIGARETTES
::
L - S
r
c° w
*, v
U t*
»s, tigy :
rrr,
4 \S
< 4 < /ii
aSlIi'IlSSt
25^
?//)
'M
hm
/s
Es
U 4
SH
Q lid
* /'. I
<O4,
%tN’ u &4
7*o Co
KM
T« «> -V
i , *Ty* ,1 i r; i -f"
40WV.
f 7 JB lim Wa'ili" , mBII/l!'l'SB/'l/ , "M9>'/" ,> SHBr/Rn
PURE
VIRGINIA
MADE IN VIRGINIA
ALL THE A. A. MARKS' SHOPS—
-19 Hunter Street (next Hardy Bros.).
116 Pitt Street.
117 Oxford Street.
94 Darlinghurst Road. William Street.
767 George Street.
15 Alfred Street, Circular Quay.
Hotel Sydney Building. Pitt Street.
OBTAINABLE AT
Messrs. PRIOR BROS.’ SHOPS at
317 George Street.
109 King Street.
3a Elizabeth Street.
H. T. Cooper, 142 King Street.
Civil Co-operative Stores, Pitt Street.
Farmers Ftd., Pitt Street.
F. Fassetter’s* George Street.
David Jones Ltd., George Street.
A. A. McGee* 5-7 Castlereagh Street.
A. A. McGee* 773 George Street.
VICTORIAN AGENTS: D. Reddan, 330 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: Messrs. Lawrence & Levy, 9 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: Messrs. Morris & Co., Levi Green Buildings, Wellington Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND AGENTS: J. W. Collins & Bickerton Ltd., Edward and Elizabeth Streets, Brisbane.
FACTORY REPRESENTATIVES:
THOMPSON, MEGGITT & CO. LTD., DAILY TELEGRAPH BUILDINGS, SYDNEY; and
MESSRS. BRODERICK & CO. LTD., HARRIS STREET, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
.SMITH
JUUUS
STUDIOS


Organiser of “Strong Posts” and Member of the State Recruiting Committee to relieve
returning Australian Soldiers. Mr. Downes Johnstone speaks of Clements Tonic
as a rare and unequalled Nerve Medicine.
MR. DOWNES JOHNSTONE, in addition to being a member of the New South Wales
State Recruiting Committee, has been a leading celebrity in the Sydney Musical World
f° r T years, and is late Lessee and Sole Proprietor of the Repertory Theatre.
Sydney. Under his direction many intellectual Repertory Plavs were successfully produced.
He is now Managing Director of the Albert College of Music and Singing, King Street Sydney.
He writes of Clements Tonic thus:—
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
Sydney, January 31 1919.
I am pleased to give my testimony to the wonderful benefits person-
ally derived from Clements Tonic during a serious nervous breakdown
some three years ago, which necessitated my retirement from public
But with a long rest, and the aid of your splendid tonic, I completely
recovered, and I resumed my professional responsibilities and other pub-
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle, N.S.W.
lie services which I have been engaged in during the war. You have my
permission to use this in the Australasian, International and Foreign
Press.
I am, sirs, yours faithfully,
DOWNES JOHNSTONE.
Always keep this medicine in your house and use it. A dose at bedtime will
make you sleep and refresh you. It is a good creator of appetite. It will give
you good, pure blood. It will make you eat well, sleep well, work well. Try it.;
Get it from your Chemist or Store to-day. It means Health.
It is sold throughout Australia and New Zealand.
Society
PENEOLD'S
WINES
“Yallah”: After three years’ service with
the A.1.F., I received a welcome home to-day
from the ever-bright Defence Department.
It was an order from an area-officer in
Sydney to return immediately one belt and
one pouch or pay 3s. lOd. Failure to comply
with this order would, I was told, render me
liable _to prosecution. The leather goocD
were issued to me when I was in the senior
ADVERTISEMENT AT ANY PRICE.
"She got her divorce, though there teas a lot
of publicity.”
"She always was luchy.”
cadets. On account'.' of defective eyesight
I was declared unfit for that training and
was emptied out just before leaving school
seven years ago!
“Hamer”: “The man who fired the last
shot” is becoming a crowd. I read about
three of him last week. If any Australian
was guilty (which is unlikely) it was prob-
ably a member of the Siege Brigade. The
Australian Corps was “out” at the time the
Armistice was signed ; but the siege batteries
were more frequently behind Tommy than
Aussie troops, and after the final Ypres
stunt on September 28, followed Fritz as
far as Dottignies. Here the fleetness of
Fritz in his retreating movement beat the
heavies; and the men of the siege batteries
were taken off their guns and attached to
the 01st and 89th R.E., who were engaged
in bridge-building for the Tommy patrols.
* -it- * *
Hobart Anglican Synod the other day con-
sidered anew the position of the poor par-
sons, many of whom, it was stated, were
striving to make the family ends meet on
£l5O a year. Nothing much came out of the
discussion, but the brethren of the bevelled
heels and frayed trousers were bidden to
hope on, hope ever, as usual, and pray with-
out ceasing. Then Synod raised the screw
of the Bishop from £BOO to £9OO, and on it
being reported that the little monument at
Rokeby over the remains of Tasmania’s first
Anglican parson, Bobby Ivnopwood, was in
need of £l5 worth of repairs, it was uncheer-
fully proposed to endeavor to raise the sum
by passing round the hat. The unanimous
sigh of resignation with which the assembled
poor parsons carried the motion sounded
almost like a groan. At that very moment,
Monsignor Gilleran, rosy-faced and prosper-
ous-looking, drove past the window in his
beautifully-horsed and richly-upholstered
turn-out. “Seek ye first the right Church,”
misquoted a waggish layman, “and all these
things shall be added unto you.”
* * * *
The \ ic. police have two unexplained
corpses on hands. On May 1 a giri
employed by a Koorong Yale farmer died, as
was afterwards proved, from strychnine
poisoning. A verdict of suicide was recorded ;
but rumor was so insistent that the Law
exhumed the body. Then it discovered in
the coffin the corpse of a newly-born baby
which everybody unanimously knows nothing
about. The girl being allegedly in normal
health, with no inducement to suicide, there
is a loud suspicion about the matter ; but
the baby’s case is even more abstruse, inas-
much as a thick cloak of silence surrounds
its beginning as well as its end. The second
redundant body was hauled off the roof of a
corridor car on the Great Southern train, at
Korumburra, at 10 p.m. on June 7. It
proved to be what was left of a P’ran butcher
named Eastman, w’ho had gone from Hawks-
burn at 6.30 that morning, with his aunt, to
visit relatives at Ivooweerup. He left her at
Dandenong to speak to a friend in another
carriage, and that was the last she saw of
him. When taken down the body bore no
marks of violence; and how or why he
reached the roof of the carriage and what
killed him are deep mysteries.
* * * *
“Furlo”: The Digger in France wasn’t
conspicuous only for his initiative in mop-
ping up machine-gun possies and the like.
The Devons were in the line when we
arrived in the vicinity of Armen-
tieres for the first time. The
ground was so wet that trenches
soon became canals, and breast-
works were substituted. Behind
these we had to wade in about
three feet of slush. The Devons
had dug up a circular saw, and
were cutting up a few feet of duck-
boards a day to cover the liquid
mud. This was not fast enough
for our Pioneer major. Within
a week seven circular-saws were
working overtime. They had been
salvaged from ruined factories in
the vicinity; also the engine that
worked them. Very soon our sec-
tor was covered and also the
fronts of two English divisions on
our flanks. Again, when the light
railways were run up to the line,
a difficulty presented itself —there
was nothing to bend the rails with
at curves. The Major soon pro-
duced a “jim crow” with the
Egyptian Railways mark on it.
He had looked ahead in Cairo.
Next the Armentieres trams, which
were idle when we arrived, started
mysteriously one night. Our rest-
less organiser had taken a party to
the power-house and got the en-
gines working. Soon the trams
were carrying gear to his
dumps. Incidentally, when the French Com-
mission was informed, it assessed the rent at
2000 francs per week.
* * # •
“Copabella”: An order by Irvine, C. J., in
Melbourne, empowering trustees to dispose of
certain church property in Geelong owned by
the “Free Church of England,” re-opens a
page of early Vic. church history. In 1864
a group of Anglicans in Geelong fell out with
Dr. Perry, first Bishop of Melbourne, and
set up a “free” Church of England, whose
foundation-stone was “no episcopacy.” The
seceders were wealthy as well as enthusiastic.
They secured a fine block of land and built
a bluestone church. Their first pastor was
the Rev. Dr. Brough, to whom they paid a
salary of £BOO. and they gave him a curate,
the Rev. F. P. Strickland. The church.
known as Holy Trinity, flourished. Strick-
land succeeded Brough as incumbent. Later,
evil times—or perhaps “evil manners” —
came, the old seceders gradually died out,
and a trustee wrote “finis” to the Free
Church by shutting it up. The original trus-
tees died; their successors died. Now the
property is estimated to be worth quite
£5OOO, and the lessees of the building, the
virile made-in-America Church of Christ, is
ready to buy. The trustees, anxious to un-
load their burden, sought nower to sell. Then
a novel position arose. The common rule is
to devote such trust moneys to the religious
body most like. The nearest-in-thought com-
munion in this case is the Church of Eng-
WILLING TO ASSIST.
NURSE : “The patient got discouraged when he heard the surgeon had left the forceps
inside him."
FLIPPANT STUDENT: “Yes, he threw up the sponge at once.”
land, blit the trust specifically laid it down
that episcopality is anathema. The origi-
nal seceders were undoubtedly Anglican,
wherefore none of the “Nonconformist”
bodies could fairly claim the cash. So the
Geelong Hospital gets it —the interest, not
the capital.
* * * *
“The Happy Historian” : Apropos the aw-
ful mistake of the full-rigged naval johnnie
who lately went to the swell Hobart wedding
in an old slouch hat, put on by mistake.
Judge Bindon, of Vie., years ago appeared in
court wearing a tasselled smoking-cup which
he had donned in error for his wig. When
he .put the horsehair on the laughter ceased,
though folk who remember say he looked, if
anything, funnier. A pioneer of legal re-
form once appeared before Judge Boothby,
in S. Aus., wearing a false moustache which
wiggled. He was sternly rebuked and
ordered to remove it, despite his protests that
he looked no more ridiculous than his Honor.
Old Judge Boucaut always ordered “Wigs
off” on hot Adelaide days, and even Sammy
Way treated them with little resoect, often
pushing the horsehair off and scratching his
poll with a J nib.
A story without a single gleam of joy in
it was related the other day at a.Sydney
police court. The unmarried mother was
aged 20. She had no parents or personal
friends; also she had no occupation worth
mentioning, except that she waited in a sort
of fashion in a city restaurant. She had no
particular place to keep herself and the babv.
although a friend at Alexandria, about the
poorest and saddest of the crowded bits of
crowded Sydney, took care of the infant
when she could. The child' was rejected
by various hospitals because it had been born
with “a certain disease.” “A certain disease”
was apparently the only settlement which
the husband had made on his unmarried wife
and the only provision he had made for his
infant. N. S. Wales has a law to make “a
certain disease” notifiable, and to segregate
those who have it and prevent them passing
it on, but the Act is only to come in force
at a certain date which hasn’t arrived yet.
Apparently haste wasn’t regarded as essen-
tial. There was some mention about a sus-
picion that a futile attempt had been made
to kill the prospectless infant amid the dreary
surroundings of Alexandria. But the sus-
picion, though it was the means of bringing
the case to light, was only a speck on the
surface of the general desolation. A square
mile of mean streets can make more de-
generation than a whole book of mean laws.
* * * *
From a Sydney business man at Horse-
ferry-road :
We are gradually cleaning things up here, and
getting the men away. My job concerns their
wives; paying their allotments and separation
allowances—or stopping them if they are not behav-
ing themselves. We have already shipped a few
thousands away. Some are O.K. Many are : not,
and I’m sorry to see them invading Australia. I
often get a police report to the effect that Ada
Dash was charged at so-and-so with soliciting, and
fined. Her allotment is then suspended, and her
soldier husband informed. In a few weeks be comes
to London, yields to her, calls in and gets the allow-
ance reinstated. So far as his allocation of pay in
her favor goes, it is all right; but I objected to
good Australian cash to the extent of 2s. per day
separation allowance being added, and fought the
absurd rule that the latter must be paid where
an allotment has been made. As a result we are
now authorised to pay only the one amount in
special cases. We lately had a memo, from the
Repatriation Department asking about a certain
woman they were sending, to Australia on an early
boat (free passage). Inquiry was made and we
found she was “wanted” for theft, and that her
allotment had been stopped in 1917 for misconduct.
I wrote the Repat. to delay her departure, and asked
the police if they still wanted her. They wanted
her badly. She’s now doing time, and will not see
sunny Australia for a few years. Many of the
undesirables slip through in spite of all, and our
Divorce Courts will pick up a lot of business in
consequence.
(Continued on page IS.)
THE AGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The maimed Age limps along
’Twixt moan and sigh;
Its outlook dull and gray,
It struggles on its way
With neither stick nor staff,
All twisted and awry—
A shape, whereat, on high,
The ordered planets laugh.
Who shall refresh its veins,
Its travail end,
And help it o’er the stiles
And pitfalls of the miles
That it must somehow tread ?
Who shall be guide and friend
Ere night and wrath descend
Upon its stricken head?
The maimed Age limps along
In woeful plight,
Assailed by strife and war;
Yet folk and folk there are
Who deem and dream that they
Are sent to lead and light
Its stumbling steps aright
Upon the smooth Highway.
The trouble, is, in truth,
Too many bring
Their folly to the quest;
They do their little best
With strength that is as chaff
Before the winnowing,
While at their blundering
The ordered planets laugh.
x.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.


Born 182 o
—still going strong
j ir-.XX
m
' r f
Vi
vC
L
VS
X
%•*
,\1
n
«* °
M 0
%
k
/
/
/
\
/
Ijr
V.
V
W
%
tea-
•*£)
%
£S
KA
3 s
/
UJ
4yj
LV
i-
-22
*
O
r
1
o
lilt
U((/
£
&A&AAaa
w
y
m
u
L'
O/'UTSV
1
Eo
“So many men, so many minds”—
But all are agreed on “Johnnie Walker,
n
Johnnie Walker “ Red Label” Whisky is now put up only in new and greatly improved Patent Bottles
which are easy to pour. These Bottles are commercially non-refill able.
It is not claimed that they are scientifically non-refillable any more than a Burglar-proof Safe is claimed
to be absolutely burglar-proof.
But both Kon-refillable Bottles and Burglar-proof Safes give ample protection to their valued contents.
GUARANTEED SAME QUALITY THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
JOHN WALKER & SONS, Ltd., Scotch Whisky Distillers, KILMARNOCK, Scotland


EL® 1
A Pro d
V of OvejrFif\y
Ifears’Experience
BRINDS
GIN
GIN
7Fv/f
till Hi
To meet the
demand
TOOHEYS
Have brewed a
Special Stout
Equal to Imported.
TRY IT.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
i slier, tiie Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managin'* Director.
“Gullabong”: The Union S.S. Co.’s
Koonya, which came to grief at Sandy Cape
(Tas.) a week ago, was the first iron vessel
to enter the Antarctic Circle. Shackleton’s
first expedition was carried south in 1908
by the Nimrod, a 40-year-old whaler so
small that, at Lyttelton, Sliackleton was
hard put to it to find the necessary storage-
space for liis supplies. The problem was
solved for him by the M.L. Government and
the Union Co., which provided the Koonya
to tow the whaler towards the Great Ice
Barrier, thus saving the Nimrod’s coal. The
tow covered 1500 miles of one of the stormi-
est parts of the world, and soon after cross-
ing the Circle had to be terminated owing to
the proximity of the ice-pack, with its dan-
gers to a ship of iron.
* * * *
“Centurion”: Had the Evacuation
the disaster it might easily have been Egypt
would have boiled over, as it did three years
later. So at least the heads believed. It
is allowable now perhaps to say what pre-
parations were made. Each of the three
L. H. brigades then stationed around Cairo
was raked out to provide a mounted regi-
ment, completely equipped; and similar
arrangements were made at the infantry
depots. Cairo was mapped into districts,
and a quota of horse, foot and guns allotted
to each. Swords were issued to the L. H.
for street fighting, and ammunition, etc.,
was drawn. A Light Horse squadron slept
near its saddled horses in every depot, while
night alarms were practised and alarm posts
marked out. All men accustomed to postal,
telephone, telegraphic, tramway or railway
SITUATION VACANT.
MISTRESS: “And now give me an idea of
how you would clean my gold hag?”
NEW MAID: “ With the Brasso, madam.”
work, or to electric power, water-supply and
fire brigades, were listed from the various
units in readiness to take over the services
from the Gyppo. Six rockets from the
Citadel at night, or six guns in the daytime,
were to be the alarm. It all provided excite-
ment for the “B” classes in the depots, and
when, one day, a bunch of G.vppy conscripts
mutinied and had to be brought to heel, many
a fed-up Aussie hoped for the best. Then
the bottom fell out of it all. The Evacua-
tion didn’t turn out the expected disaster.
Lower Egypt was suddenly filled with the
men of Anzac and Cape Helles, and the dis-
gusted conspirators went back to their ordi-
nary avocations.
* * * *
“J.G.”: Ever hear what caused the first
scrap between Aussies and Yanks in France?
A crowd of Diggers just out of hospital were
STARTING OFF THE MARK.
“How about going round by Whatitsname?
They say here ‘the scenery is most in-
teresting.’”
“ George , dear, if you are going to be inter-
ested in scenery on my honeymoon, there
isn’t going to be any wedding.”
being marched to the “bullring” (train-
ing ground) to get in a bit of practice before
they went into the line again. As they passed
a party of brand-new Yanks sitting' on the
side. of the road, one of the Sammies was
holding a big boarhound, evidently a mas-
cot. One of the Yanks called out: “What
do you think of him for a watch-dog?” An
Australian replied: “He’s a snifter! What
do you feed him on?” “Anzacs,” replied the
fresh Yank, who was holding the dog. Then
the fun commenced. We did no drill that
day. I lost all my equipment, but I was
a Yank rifle, hat and , stick of chewing-
tobacco to the good.
“The Oldest Inhabitant” : Dunn’s Plains,
near Rockley (N.S.W.), the property of
James Larnach, has been
sold to J. and C. Coles
for between £25,000 and
£30,000. It was this home-
stead that was stuck up by
Ben Hall’s gang on Oct. 24,
1863, when a battle took
place between the bush-
rangers and the inmates, led
by Mr. Keightley, Gold Com-
missioner. In the fight one
of the raiders, a young
fellow named Burke, was
killed. Mr. Keightley, being
captured, was threatened
with, death, but money pre-
vailed, and he was held for
ransom in the sum of £5OO.
Mrs. Keightley, with a visi-
tor, Dr. Peechy, drove into
Bathurst and obtained the
cash from her father, Henry
Kotton, M.L.A. Button and
the doctor carried the money
to the outlaws, Mrs. Keight-
ley remaining at Blackdown,
her father’s home.
* * *
“De Facto”: When it comes to doing the
fair thing by returned men the Vic. public
service goes alone. It is at present asking
them to rush a job as assistants at the
Public Library. The salary is £3 a week,
which may soar as high as £192 a year if
the holder is good. All the applicants need
to show is a University degree or matricula-
tion, a knowledge of two languages besides
English, and “some acquaintance with library
work and methods.” Just now builders’
laborers in Vic. are on strike for something
better than 13s. a day. But, then, most of
them are not handicapped with education.
* * * *
“Dido” : A journalist of my acquaintance,
takinsr lunch in a city restaurant, was
greatly disgusted by the conduct of two well-
dressed men at an adjoining table. The two
were a little “fu’,” but not so much as to
invite compassion, and presently, when one
of them rubbed his straw-
berry ice in the hair of
a lame waiter, and then
kicked him, the writer
reached his limit of for-
bearance. He was over
six feet, and had an un-
commonly dirtvv left.
Approaching the waiter’s
assailant, he dropped
him one on the eye. Then
the avenger collared the
other man. “Send for a
policeman,” he said ; “I’ll
give these fellows in
charge.” The policeman
came, but shook his head.
“Oan’t be done, sir,” he
whispered. “These two
gentlemen are my super-
ior officers.” “Very well,”
he replied, “I’ll report
them.” He took down
particulars. A fortnight
later he met the police-
man. “Well, sir.” said
the Hop, “how did your
charge go along?” “I
drew out,” the journalist
replied. “I stood it
while their wives hung
about my neck and wept
all over me, but their
daughters started coming
in at my office, one by
one, and making tearful
appeals, and at last I
withdrew from the whole
thing.” The constable
grinned. “That’s all
right,” said he; “but in point of fact neither
of the men is, or even has been, a married
man.” And now he’s wondering whether
they were ever police officers either.
* * * *
Several Billjacks vouch for this yarn.
When the submarines were being taken over
and put in a row, one Hun spat into the
water twice, saying, the first time, “That
for Beatty!” and the second time, “That
for the British Navy !” All but one of the
bluejackets obeyed strict orders to merely
freeze the Huns if they did anything Hun-
nish. The exception drawled : “Beatty’s all
right, and the British Navy can take care of
itself; but, Jerry, don’t you spit in our
ocean again.”
Reflections of “The Ratcatcher’s Daugh-
ter” :
They say that two heads are better than one.
But Billjim, on transport, goes further. He says
that two heads are a “cert.”
If at first you don’t succeed, try being virtuous.
Time flies ; but no man has seen* it on the wing.
One and one are two—to start with.
When George Grey spoke about the unborn mil-
lions he foresaw the Holman Government.
* * * *
There’s a lot said —-and it should be said—
about the way the unpatriotic wharf-laborers
and coal-lumpers let down the Digger when
he needed transports and hospital-ships a
year or two ago. But what about this? At
Pakenham, 36 miles out of Melbourne, where
several returned men have been settled, one
soldier was sold a cow for £l7 ss. on the
allegation that she was in calf; when that
was proved false, he was given in exchange
a heifer worth £l2 at the most. Another
bought a spring-cart for £ll, paid for it
with a Government order for £l6, and
couldn’t get his change ; the seller explained
to the Court that he was holding the money
‘ for the soldier’s convenience.” “Did you
get any assistance from Mr. ’s working
bee?” the Court asked the Digger. “Noi
sir, because I did not buy any cattle from
him, was the reply. And a shire-councillor,
upon wham the State Lands Department
seems to have depended for valuations and
such, was proved to have (a) valued a pro-
perty without looking at it, and (b) sworn
that he inspected some cattle in the presence
of three men, two of whom were not there.
And the third, who was there, gave evidence
that the shire-councillor wasn’t there him-
self.
* * * »
“Pollio” : In Parliamentary etiquette we
have still much to learn from other young
nations. Governor Ferguson has not yet ven-
tured—though surely he must have been
tempted—to prorogue Parliament with the
casual remark that he has seen too much
already of some of the members and hopes
he’ll never see them again. Nor has any
Speaker, not even Charley Macdonald, told
the press his full and exact opinion of the
members under his official control. In
Hawaii they are cheerier and more candid.
The Governor dismissed the last legislature
with the remark: “This is the first time I
have met some of them, and I hope it will
be the last.” And the Speaker talked for
publication as Frank Anstey might talk to
his closest pals. “It is the bummest legis-
lature we ever had,” he began, and went on
to explain the ill-doings of individual mem-
bers. “My colleagues from West Hawaii
either got hypnotised by the Bolsheviks from
the Fifth District or it was a new exhibi-
tion.” As for the Senate, lie had to invent
a word for them: they were “low-brained
creatures drunk with egotism and suffering
with an acute case of autogeneal infallibil-
ity.” He could recall only two previous ses-
sions fit to be mentioned in the same breath ;
in one the principal Bill discussed dealt with
the exemption of bitches from taxation, and
during the other several members were
gaoled for stealing public money and burn-
ing the vouchers. It was the latter crime,
apparently, that got them quodded. .. .
Speaker Johnson will now take the platform.
“II.O.”: “Yes,” remarked the gorgeously-
clad minion who stands outside the theatre
and summons the cars of Croesus, “it is
rummv the ideas the bong tong have. Some
of ’em get in a huff if I don’t bawl loud
enough for their cars. The blooming things
arrive all the same, but they like me to make
a song-an’-dance about calling for ’em. ‘Call
Mrs. Snobley’s car, commissionaire; call it
loudly, please,’ they say, and if I holler loud
enough it’s worth an' extra bob. Some of
’em will only tip a bob if you call in a fair
average voice, but if you bellow like a fog-
horn they’ll most likely sling half a dollar.
Rummy, isn’t it?” I agreed that it was, and
went my way brooding upon the hollerness
of life.
From Dr. Triado, of Snowtown (S.A.) :
Is it the policy of the Defence Department to
compel the returned soldier to hang about the cities,
even though his home is in the country ? An inci-
dent which lately came to my notice suggests that
it is. Driver A. W. Sanders, an undischarged Anzac,
a few days after his arrival in Snowtown developed
serious illness. I was called, and, in view of his
condition, ordered his removal to a private hospital
—the only place available. He was much too ill
to send to the Adelaide Military Hospital, 150 miles
away; indeed, he died shortly afterwards. I sent my
bill for attendance, etc., to the Defence Department,
MORE INFANTRY.
HUSBAND (who is leginning to feel himself
neglected): “Always knitting! Who's
it for this time? There isn’t anybody
now who will need such a thing.”
WIFE: “No, old dear, not at. present. But
there soon will be.”
which replied that “the Department cannot accept
any responsibility in this matter, as the late Driver
Sanders was admitted to hospital and treated with-
out the authority of the Defence Department.’'’ Had
Driver Sanders hung round the city all would have
been well; he could have got medical treatment. But
let a returned sick Digger venture away from the
vicinity of a city military hospital, even to visit
his relations in the country, and it seems he does it
at his own peril. If he falls sick he must stay
sick and unattended to, so far as the Department is
concerned, until slow-moving Authority has consented
to aid being rendered him.
THE SOLDIER’S HOBBY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I wooed a lass in Ribemont.
In billets first I met her.
She was so fair to look upon.
That dainty lass of Ribemont,
I swore I’d ne’er forget her.
But one day came the word “Move On!”
And she was left in Ribemont.
I met a girl in Paris Plage
While at the base I tarried.
I longed to start a small menage
For two, with her, in Paris Plage—
In fact, we’d soon have married.
But Fritz put up a big barrage
And I was moved from Paris Plage.
A dainty maid in Gay Paree
My senses next enchanted;
She was uncommon fair to see,
And in my heart, in Gay Paree,
The Seed of love was planted.
But soon my leave was up (ah me!)
And I took leave of Gay Paree.
And when I got to London Town
I met an English beauty,
Who, when I spoke of France, would frown
And cast her pretty black eyes down
Till I forgot my duty
And lost my three gold stripes and erowr
For French leave spent in London Town.
So now I’m on my homeward way
To Sydney, o’er the ocean;
But whether I shall still be gay
When I’m at home, is hard to say—
In fact, I’ve ne’er a notion.
I wonder shall we fix the day
And buy a ring? Perhaps we may.
N.S.W.
J. F. FLETCHER.


means insurance against roof troubles. It is a dependable roofing —built to meet all roofing
requirements. When you need Economical, Long-lasting Roofing that costs less than
galvanised-iron—use
; ADAMAX Roofing'.
A free, descriptive pamphlet gives selling points in detail. Ask for it, also for a free
sample.
For Interiors —Use LOTTOID.
The sheets possess a hard, snow-white surface, showing no trace of fibre. Made in 24 convenient
sizes.
Write for full details to our Sydney or Brisbane offices. We are agents in 14. S. Wales and
Queensland.
We also stock Durabestos, the Durable, Hydraulically-compressed Asbestos-Cement Sheets and
Slates for Walls and Roofing. A reliable building sheet for all purposes.
We will gladly send you, without any obligation on your part, information, samples and prices of
these Australian Products.
William Adams <O, Co. Ltd.,
175 Clarence Street, SYDNEY,
521-3 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
96 Currie Street. ADELAIDE.
Cr. Edward & Mary Streets, BRISBANE.
33 King Street, PERTH.


i
mm,
P,L-U
THe
finest
TOBACCO
in
two forms—
Plug-Slice
or
Ready-Rubbed.
EDGEWORTH
SPORTING
CARTRIDGES
Our Special Offer.
The Celebrated
SOVEREIGN, 21/- per 100
SMOKELESS, 20/6 per 100 —in 600 lots
CARTRIDGE, 20/- per 100-in 1000 lots.
This is the finest smokeless cartridge made.
12-Gauge, loaded, double-chilled shot, and
Nobel’s Empire Smokeless Powder.
Shot Nos. 2,3, 4,6, 6, 8 and 10.
We have the largest stocks in Victoria
of Winchester, Remington and Dominion
Cartridges. Send for special list.
McEWAN’S,
Melbourne’s Busiest Hardware Store,
119-125 Elizabeth St, Melbourne.
A Signal Sikeses®
<3
eorge 1v
ThcTOP-WOTCH"Seotglt
ABORIGINAHTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Gleniris”: In spite of the “wilt” from
which so many acres of Victorian tomato-plants
mysteriously suffered this season, some people have
put up lecords. Julian Parer, a Melbourne grower
who follows the Spanish style of tomato-culture, has
had over 2001 b. of fruit from two plants. It’s a
simple business to train the vegetable, once started,
l.very lateral is pinched off the main stem as it
develops, leaving only the sprig of flowers borne by
most laterals and the large leaf from the base of
which these sprigs and small branches spring. A
tremendous height may thus be reached with a good
plant to work on, and a lot of fruit won from a
small area of the right sort of soil. However, the
pi eliminaiy work with hot-beds is enough to make
the tenderer sorts of tomato-growers go grey before
their time. It is only the patient, plodding horti-
culturist who can make a success of the gamble.
* * * *
“Gouger” : Away up past Thursday Island
lies Darnley Island, and its inhabitants are the pro-
foundest believers in
g'hosts of any tribe or
nation living. • All
their folk lore is en-
twined with ghost
characters, sometimes
singly, sometimes
whole troops of them.
The spooks have regu-
lar quarters on the
island—Keiary (Home
of the Ghosts) —and,
although the people in
the flesh take liberties
with the ghostly ranch
during daylight hours,
they leave the locality
yell alone after sun-
dow n. The latest
ghost yarn up here is
that a light is some-
times gliding among
the Hills. The light
stops. Then a shrill
whistle blows. The
light glides on again,
until eventually it stops
on the highest hill of
the island. Th’is is
supposed to be the
ghosts going for a ride
in their train. When
the light stops, more
passengers are taken
on. Some of these old
ghosts are decent sorts
and don’t mind doing
a. man a good turn.
Others are devilish.
They have their ghostly
parties and concerts,
and, the natives assure
me, to hear an un-
earthly chorus in the
small hours, when the
party is well blithered
with grave-dew, is to hear a noise that wil draw
down your toe-nails and make them stick in your
heels.
* * * »
“FY7” : Apropos “Kobbi’s” calf, born with
earmarks (B. 10/4/T9). There are similar instances
in plenty, though Mendelists and other scientific folk
who admit and explain the transmission of markings,
like the Hereford’s white face, scoff at the idea of
a recently-acquired stigma being passed along. But
I’ll swear to this. I know a man who acquired a
cauliflower ear of a peculiar sort in early youth.
The brand is reproduced with absolute fidelity in
his eldest Son.
* * * *
“Toby C.” : In the Proserpine, Herbert and
Seymour River districts of North Queensland, where
their eggs are served with bacon on the breakfast-
table and used in Sunday puddings, it's no unusual
thiig to meet crocodiles two, three, or even five
miles from the main
stream, provided al-
ways that some inland
waterhole offers decent
forage. If ’gators are
not overland foragers,
why are they some-
times found in cane-
fields, as they are in
the districts men-
tioned, when there
hasn’t been a flood to
take them there?
They don’t go for a
turn at mixed bathing. By the way, how many
eggs docs Mrs. Croc, lay, and does she lay the lot
at one sitting?
* * * *
Eddyson ’; \\ hen Crowther went on to
manage the Old Lode at Wandong in place of
Blight, incapacitated by drink and, incidentally by
falling down a 30ft. jump-up, he found three most
extraordinary whim boys on the job. These were
lorn, Bob and Andy Canty, brothers, ranging
between i 6 and 20, Crowther judged, very much
alike, thin-faced, eerie, wizened, with ramshackle
figures and the eyes of startled does. The miners
always referred to them as “Canty’s boys,” as though
it were a sort of generic term, and displayed a
respect for them in many ways that the occasion did
not seem to demand so far as Crowther was aware
of the situation. However, the lads did their work
better than the average whim-bov, who is a raffish
scamp and needs watching like a loose ape. Then
one morning, when the new manager had been on
the job about a fortnight, Bradley was reported
unfit for duty. Bradley was a braeeman, and not
to be replaced at a moment’s notice, so the other
two would have to do 12-hour shifts, which meant
uproar. “What in thunder’s the matter with Brad-
ley, anyhow?” demanded Crowther. Thompson ex-
plained: “Dan Canty got to him for gettin’ sorter
smart with his boys. See, Canty won’t do anythin’
but fight, but he will fight if his hoys has got any
complaints to make.” “But, dammit-all, I can’t
have my men laid out for the sake of his hoodlums.”
“But they ain’t hoodlums, sir, l.ot exactly what
you'd call hoodlums, them bein’ girls in a manner
of speakin’.” “Girls?” cried the boss. “Why yes.
Didn’t you know?” “No, I’m hanged if i did.'
They’ll have to get out of this.” “But Canty’s girls
is the best whim-boys in the district, and Canty
he would be hurt.” However, a new braceman
turned up later, and was engaged, and that day
Crowther went to*see the father of his whim-boys.
A HIGH-GRADE CONCENTRATE.
STRANGER : “What sorter bloke is the man-
ager, mate—I'm lookin’ fer a job?”
COUSIN JACK: “Braave and fine! ’E soon
swear at ’ee as look, but ’e be straight
as a gun-barrel and a real white man.
In fact, ’e be ’nother such man as
meself.”
He found the gibber farmer lying on his back under
a pear-tree, with his heels in a barrow, smoking.
“Look here,” said Crowther, “is it true that the
three boys I’ve got on the whim up at the mine are
your girls?” Canty nodded without rising. “What
about it?” asked he. “Ain’t they good boys?” “But
I can’t have a pack of girls hanging about the
claim. It isn't proper.” “Don’t you fret about
that; nobody down there is goin’ to remember they’re
girls.” “All the same, it’s a devil of a nuisance.
Why, blast my eyes, you’ll be sending your wife up
next!” “No need,” replied ■ Canty, “she's got a
job already. She’s the new braeeman you put on
this mornin’ !”
* * * *
“S.S.S.”: I struck a gab a when I was
coming across that stretch of open water between
Douka and Port Moresby in a whale-boat. It raged
and roared and hurled four-storey waves at us. My
native crew unshipped the mast and huddled together
in the bottom of the boat. The wind beat the
waters fiat. After the terrifying uproar died down
tlie sea seethed up like a witches’ cauldron and
turned red. Aru-hua, my coxswain, raised his scared
head and shrieked that this guba was a pourri-pourri
from an Orikiva boat-boy who had laid down and
died, a year since, because he (Aru-hua) strongly
suspected him of stealing his armshell.
* * * *
“Camelero”: “Hump” (B. 29/5/’l9) hits
the mark about dressing mangy camels. It was
the most filthy job ever undertaken by Diggers, and
the Gyppos who were attached to each company
of the Camel Corps often refused to do it. We
were camped between Khan Yunis and El Arish, in
Palestine, when most of our camels became in-
fected with the mange in its worst form, and several
of the men who attended to them were soon covered
with hideous running sores. It was nothing less
than a form of syphilis, and was treated as such
in the venereal compound at Moasear. On another
occasion a party of us brought a mob of sick camels
110,11 tke Iripoli border to a small village near
Alexandria. The beasts were in a fearful state,
being covered with huge ulcers which continually
discharged; and to make matters worse we could
not prevent our blankets and food from coming in
contact with the brutes. The cause of the ulcer
outbreak was -alleged to be the animals’ long spell
without green feed.
“Bourag-i”; How can tlie big reef clam
constitute an invisible and deadly danger to anyone
walking over coral at low tide, as “Conger” asserts
in a recent Bulletin? For one thing the “lips”
which protrude from the shell when under water or
lying awash are of a vivid green and scarlet, notice-
able a long distance off. As for clams being a danger
to divers in dress, the idea is ridiculous. I have
known many dress divers who have practised in
Torres and China Straits, and from what they have
told me they fear the giant groper, the stone-fish
and the octopus, in the order named. The danger
from the octopus is apparent enough, while most
people have heard of the agony a person suifers
when his bare flesh touches the stonefisli spines. On
the other hand nobody would think the bovine, slow-
moving groper would be dangerous; but it is hated
by divers for its inveterate curiosity and determina-
tion. The fish's practically toothless jaws can take
a man’s hand off. None of the tricks which scare
the devil out of sharks, such as a squirt of com-
pressed air from the valves, will work with a groper.
He will stay and nuzzle a man all over, looking for
something to munch off. A diver who cemented in
the piles of the Samarai wharf years ago used to
get a visit every day from a big groper, and each
time the d —d thing hove in view the toiler had
to be hauled aloft.
* * * *
“McNorth”': Away up on the lee side of
Cape York, where the waters of the Gulf of Carpen-
taria lap the endless miles of beaches, there used to
be an old nigger whom some facetious person had
christened Marmaduke. Marmaduke was very decrepit
looking, very old and very skinny, and all day long-
lie used to sit beside a small fire in one of the bark
humpies, making spears. He was the champion spear-
maker of the district and it was nothing for him to
take a most unpromising- log a foot or more through
and whittle it down to a finely-balanced spear. As
a Special favor he gave me a spear that
he had taken a great pride in manufacturing. It
was 12ft. long, tipped with cassowary-bone in a
fashion that left the continuity of the weapon’s sweep
unbroken. From about three feet from the point the
spear thickened gently to where a three-inch barb of
dugong-bone lay close into the wood. The haft end
was bound neatly with finely split liawyer-cane
cemented with wax from native-bees’ nests, and
allowed to taper towards the centre for about a foot.
It is one of the most finely-balanced pieces of work-
manship I know of, and when held in position in
the throwing-stick, with a well-nourished nigger be-
hind it, quivers as though with life. None of the
younger generation of bucks can make weapons like
that, even in the comparative terra incognita of Cape
\ ork; few of the English-speaking youths who work
on beche-de-mer vessels can make spears of any sort.
The art is dying out fast. Even old Marmaduke is
gone. Aot long ago I met a party of blacks tramp-
ing along the beach, amongst them a floppy old gin
whom recognised as one of the spear-maker’s wives.
Her hair was plastered with fat and ashes and her
breast was smeared with white clay. On my asking
THE CHANGE.
THE GENT : "Dear me, what deplorable igno-
rance! A big boy like you, and you
don’t even know your own name!”
THE KID: " No. Muvver got married again
yesterday.”
her where Marmaduke was, she pointed to a bundle
on her back. It was a most untidy affair of ti-tree
bark and an old blanket. There" was a dreadful
smell. “Him there,” she said. I had met a funeral
that was belated because of a week’s death-dancing.
(Continued on page 22.)
COWAN'S GHOST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They tell the yarn in drovers’ camps—
It happened years ago—
Vi hen laggard Night hangs out her lamps
And watchfires redly glow.
How Ogle’s colt, by Rebel Bard,
Out Binna Burra way,
Vas stolen fiom the breaking-yard
By Gowan’s ghost one day.
The station cracks had often tried
To ride the colt —in vain.
But Ogle said, “If one who died
Gould come to us again!
“Jim Gowan—reckless Jim —who came
To ride at Grady’s Creek,
He’d have this high-born tyrant tame,
I’ll swear, within a week!”
The colt was in the yard that day,
And Ogle, drawing near,
Said in the old, despairing way:
“I wish poor Jim was here.”
Then came a stranger, none knew whence,
And Ogle clutched a post;
Vith pallid lips and features tense,
Said he: “It’s Gowan’s ghost!"
But soon he raised his voice again,
And strutted to and fro;
For round him were a score of men
Like idlers at a show.
“Perhaps you'll have a flutter, paid,
On this pet lamb,” they said.
At once the stranger crossed the yard
With swift and noiseless tread.
Ho held the horse’s tangled mane
And smoothed the gleaming strands;
The a took the trailing bridle-rein
With lean and ghostly hands.
V it bout a word, and bending down,
lie gathered up the slack,
And vaulted, light as thistle-down,
Upon the rebel's back.
All stood, bereft of speech, and gazed
Tn wonder and suspense.
With eyes aflame, the colt half-dazed,
Came headlong at the fence.
He cleared it grandly in his stride,
Then, wheeling to the right,
He headed for the mountain's side
And vanished from their sight.
Long years they searched the ranges wide,
They scoured the distant plain,
And lonely parts where brumbies hide
For that proud c-olt —in vain.
INDICATIONS.
THE LANDLADY : “Another
cup of fea, Miss Smiff?
It looks like ruin this morning
MIŚ SMIFF (a nark ): “Yes—hut it has a
slight odor of tea."
They say at night is heard the beat
Of hoofs along the range—
The echoed thud of fljdng feet,
And laughter, low and strange.
They tell the yarn in drovers’ camps,
A tale of long ago,
When dark-haired Night hangs out her lamps,
And watchfires redly glow.
N.S.W.
G. D. MACDONALD.


“Bookstall Skilling Library
100 AUSTRALIAN NOVELS.
11- each —All One Price —Ifli posted.
Write for New Winter Catalogue, free from Publishers.
The “Bookstall” Series of Shilling Novels is the best value obtainable in
Australia. It contains novels at Is. each more readable than imported novels in
expensive bindings at six times the price.
Sample recent additions, and you are sure to want to read further “Bookstall
novels.
Adventure in the Pacific —
“THE CORAL QUEEN.” By BEATRICE GRIM SHAW.
“WHITE SAVAGE SIMON.” By BEATRICE GRIMSIIAW. (Now-
in the Press.)
Two excellent stories by the world-famed Australian authoress. Nobody is
writing of The Islands'in the same attractive way as Miss Grimshaw.
Novels of tine Bush —
“DAWN ASPER.” By BRODA REYNOLDS.
“THE SQUATTER’S WARD.” By EDWARD S. SORENSON.
Historical Romance —
“SALLY: THE TALE OF A CURRENCY LASS.” By J. H. M.
ABBOTT.
A charming story of the Macquarie days.
Adventure in tire Far Nortii —
“RED MOUNTAIN.” By JACK MCLAREN.
Thrilling adventure in little-known Cape York. A novel which also
possesses a charming and unusual love interest.
A Bushranging' Novel —
“THE OUTLAW’S DAUGHTER,” By ARTHUR WRIGHT.
The latest from the pen of the Commonwealth’s great sporting novelist.
Westralian Goldfields Pioneering'—
“YELLOW SILVER.” By P. MERYON.
The great adventure story of two prospectors in the Golden West.
AUSTRALIAN HUMOR.
By EDWARD DYSON: “FACT’RY ’ANDS,” “SPATS’ FACT’RY,”
“LOVES OF LANCELOT,” “BENNO AND SOME OF THE PUSH.”
“SKEETER FARM.”
By SUMNER LOCKE.
“BILL’S IDEES.”
By A. C. STEPHENS.
‘ ‘ ABORIGIN ALITIE S. ”
From The Bulletin.
14 Novels by Steele Rudd.
“DOUBLE-BED DIALOGUES.”
By HENRY JAMES JAMES
“A CURATE IN BOHEMIA.”
By NORMAN LINDSAY.
“THEATRICAL CARICATURES.”
Bv HARRY JULIUS and CLAUDE
' McKAY.
Thos. E. Spencer’s Famous Novels.
PUBLISHED BY
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL GO. LTD.,
476 George Street, SYDNEY.
Leviathan
Tailoring
for Your
Winter Suit
A Perfectly Tailored Suit
appeals to you. JUST OPENED.
THIS SEASON’S
“ALL WOOL”
Specially-selected Materials.
Ready for YOUR Inspection.
YOU will quickly recognise a
TAILORED Winter Suit. Abso-
lutely the supreme achievement of
the Leviathan excellence. Cut in
the Latest Londdn Style, w'th that
touch of individuality so necessary
in public life.
SuitsMadetoMeasure
95/- to 168|-
Write for Patterns, Tape and Home
Measurement Chart. Take advan-
tage of the Leviathan Tailoring
Service.
BUY AT CITY PRICES.
/ mm
wm
; r '
kmmi
ORDER BY POST.
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
Leviathan
Corner Swanston & BourKe Streets, MELBOURNE
■ ■?
mm
f:,
» V* ♦ "if?'*
* *^< 3 ‘ • >
m
S.-
tf
r-vi
’ *' S£< t
•• ■";- '
y~ && % i
w.
’
-l : '
Ilf®
"...
lf#»
iMSgil
Si
aliSi
' -: „ .-
' .....i.SJ *s- n, -■
Cast Steel Hydraulic Cylinders for Double Dumping Wool Press.
STEEL
CASTINGS
for
All Classes of
High Pressure
HYDRAULIC
MACHINERY
including CAST STEEL CYLINDERS for Accumulators and
Wool and Fodder Presses, etc.
SEND YOUR INQUIRIES WITH FULL PARTICULARS TO THE MANUFACTURERS:—
CHAS. RUWOLT PROP. LTD.
Victoria Street, Richmond, Victoria.
AGENTS FOR NEW SOUTH WALES: ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER AND CO., CIRCULAR QUAY EAST, SYDNEY.
AGENTS FOR QUEENSLAND: AUSTRALIAN MACHINERY CO. LTD., MARY STREET, BRISBANE.


WRITE
FORv-'-j
MTERAfUREj
...,.... . . MB-- .. r .
25 :O'GON NELL .STREET,
Appoint a trustee who offers freedom
of absolute secrecy and security, and wide
experience in the transaction of Trust business.
The Company cannot speculate, die or default.
It is the logical Trustee for the practical man.
A special feature of the Company’s service is that
it does not make the Corpus Commission Charge
until after Estate becomes distributable.
This usually results in a saving to the Estate of
income sufficient to defray the charge.
“A. Borig”: Between Moss Yale and
Novvra (N.S.W.) the distance is 44 miles, down Bar-
rengarry Mountain, four miles across Cambewarra
Mountain, two up and two down, all good road. Tile
daily mail driver leayes Moss Vale at 6 a.m., has
breakfast in the valley, dinner in Nowra, then returns
to tea in the valley, goes on and arrives in Moss Vale
about 10 or 10.30 p.m. He does this six days a
week! I don’t know his stipend, but it should
be something handsome.
* * * *
“Billy T.”: When a woman turned up in
the court, as one did in Melbourne the other day,
and confessed to having lived, dressed and worked
as a man for some time, the papers brightened up,
and people in town were shocked and assumed
that the woman was necessarily peculiar. In the
bush, however, nobody is particularly put out or
moved to think that Eve in trousers is anything but
a hardy specimen of a c&mmon type. There is
scarcely an Outback district that has not one or
two women who are doing a man’s graft for their
daily bread. I can take any doubter to a district
within two hours’ journey of Melbourne, where a
woman of about 30, garbed in pants and shirt and
working boots, is swinging a tidy axe, splitting on
terms, and earning just about as much as the average
man would knock out. She has been at this work
for years, and has contrived to have and handle a
family at the same time, and the sight of her
whirling a maul, breaking up a butt, excites no more
local attention than would be given to a man on
the same job. When I was on a Tasmanian lead
some years ago, a girl of 20, in knickers, split all
the slabs that were needed on our section of the
field. A relative of mine interviewed the husband
of the axewoman first mentioned. “You are doing
pretty well,” he said—“your wife doesn’t need to
do this, does she?” “Naw,” was the reply; “I offen
tell her there ain’ no call for her to.” “Well, why
does she?” “Oh, jest fer fun.” On dozens of dairy-
farms girls in trousers, astride bare-backed horses,
scamper over the place after the cows. What is there
surprising in one or two getting to work in the
city?
* * * *
“Pick”: Wild horses easily outpace the
best of domestic gallopers when dangerous ground
has to be negotiated. In the swamp regions that
stretch through the Kiandra country (N.S.W.) the
brumbies that once roamed in numerous herds would
skim, when disturbed, over the shaking bogs and
leave scarcely a hoof-mark behind them; or they
would burst through the densest scrub where no
ridden horse could follow. George Harris, Monaro’s
champion horse-tamer of those days, once while in
pursuit of a mob that included a runaway blood mare,
wheeled them from the Providence ranges toward
the plain below. The hillside was a slanting,
Slippery rock, acres in extent, across which was a
wide unbottomed chasm. The fleeing mob swept
over the glassy surface, leaped the crevice, and with
rigidly propped legs skidded the rest of the way to
firm ground. The blue-blood among them and the
sterling stock-horse that carried George were the only
two that came to grief.
* * * *
“Steve Hart” : In the years gone by I did
many a trip south with sheep to the Buffalo and
Bogong (Vic.), and old-time drovers will bear me
out that though many a day the jumbucks couldn’t
be seen for snow the losses were practically nil. Up
the bridle track to the top of the Buffalo took doing
—but there was a pub on the top ! Up the Tee
ANYTHING TO OBLIGE HIS HONOR.
JUDGE: “Do you wish to challenge any of the jury?”
PRISONER ( ex-pugilist ): “Well, yer Honor, I wouldn’t mind havin’ a round or Leo with
the old bloke in the corner.”
spur, on the Bogan was hell—the pub there was at
the foot! Another down-south trip that took some
doing was up the_Yellow Boy. In those days there
wert drovers on the roads and stock never went
short of grass or water. But the Vic. Government
often went short of the stock tax, as the Murray
is easily fordable at Christmas time.
“Kobbi” : Binghi in the Yarrabah Mission
Station, near Cairns (N.Q.), seems to be out to
prove that the aboriginal isn’t as dead as some people
think. The mission area is about 80 square miles
and the population is about 300. According to
Superintendent Lyons, black brother is a very much
maligned person, for he makes a good tradesman as
blacksmith, sawyer, carpenter, or even farmer. A
native foreman with a gang of blacks has been em-
ployed on the station erecting a two-storeyed build-
ing 120 ft. by 40ft. from plans. They build their
own houses, mostly two rooms, with two verandahs,
chairs, tables and sundries. In their improvised saw-
mills last year they cut over £2OO worth of timber.
They also produced and consumed £2OOO w r orth of pro-
duce, a ton of cotton, and planted 2000 cocoanut
trees. They expect to plant a further 3000 this
year and to do a bit of experimenting with the
castor-oil plant and with fibre. The concern is
mostly run by the Church of England, with some
help from the State thrown in.
* * * *
“Ginger”: When a Vic. spud-digger set
up 40 bags of spuds in a Kilmore paddock in a
day, the enthusiastic coclcies of the district cabled
the news to the London Times. Yet Whitehorn, a
sturdy young pommie who delves in the Crookwell
(N.S.W.) district, threw out 45 a day without alter-
ing his stride. His next-best performance was 35
bags in a self-sown paddock.
* * * *
“Riverina”: There is a third member of
the quandong family, which is smaller than either
the yellow or red. I always heard it called the
ming. Unlike the others, its taste is awful.
Despite “H.C.’s” assertion (B. 13/2/T9) that it is
difficult to find good quandong patches in N. S. Wales,
I have seen fine clumps almost as far south as the
Murray, the best I remember being near Keri Iveri
wool shed, between Hay and Moulamein. The process
of drying the fruit is simple. Take the stone out
by halving the fruit, string the latter and hang
in the sun. When cured it will keep for months.
By the way, bush wives between the Murray ' and
the ’Bidgee occasionally make jam from the salty-
tasting berries of the dillon-bush, but it is mostly
stone. Properly ripe the berry itself is palatable
enough, and it was a favorite dish of our ancient
and venerable friend the emu.
* * * *
“Azac” : Let me into the ant-eating porcu-
pine wrangle. I was born on a station in the
Riverina, and I can safely say that three antbeds
cannot be found on that station which have not been
burrowed into by the echidnas. Let any Abo. propel
himself into a district populated by porky and
journey into the surrounding bush between the
showers of rain on a dull day. Follow the gullies
down, and an anteater will soon be discovered
making for the nearest ant residence. Having made
his landfall the pore, will burrow himself in in
record time. I have seen as many as three extracted
from a single mound.
* * * *
“Jobber”; “Wandi” (B. 22/5/T9) and his
scheme for catching black duck with a fishing-line
reminds me of an ingenious youth who toiled with
me in the sugar-cane on the Pioneer River (Q.).
He picked up a horn that had been discarded by
Strawberry, put it in a vyce, and with a file fashioned
it in the shape of a fish about four inches
long. He stuck tobacco tags in for fins, put a
swivel on the tail, to which he fastened a strong
line, and threw his bait into the river in search of
the agile barramundi. As soon as the bait hit the
water he started to haul in; the faster he hauled
the greater the number of revolutions the imitation
fish performed. Some of the barramundi that boy
landed were big enough to make a meal for the
Millions Club.
‘Y\ errimee” : The deceased Binghi goes to
his last camp in a variety of ways, one of which
resembles the final send-off of John Chinaman. In
the Queanbeyan (N.S.W.) district the legs of the
defunct were doubled up, the sinews being severed to
facilitate the operation and lashed tightly to the bodv
with bark cord. The corpse
was then sat upright in a
drive made from the bottom
of the grave, and some native
bread, yams and a roast
’possum, together with the
weapons that had belonged to
deceased, were placed within
reach. The mouth of the
drive was then blocked with
bark and the grave filled in.
Near Mt. Lindsay I saw the
remains placed upright on a
sheet of bark in a fairly
deep hole, and another sheet
arranged over the corpse. But
the departed in this case was
not supplied with provisions
to help him on his way to
the happy hunting-grounds,
nor were weapons handy for
FAIR WARNING.
INEBRIATED PERSON: “Gerrup, yer fool, or I’ll (hie) drive over yer!"
use when he got there. In parts of Queensland the
graves are heaped over with great stacks of wood;
and in other parts a stage is built hig hup in the
forks of trees, upon which the dead repose. The
Binbinga tribe (N.A.) dismembers the corpse and
shoves it into a lalanga, or log coffin.
“Steve Hart”: I haven’t seen this before
the Abo. courts. Should a dog “on the wing,” or
ringing a mob of sheep, turn out or in when coming
back ? I say “in,” because on that turn he has
always got his head to his work.
“Azac”: If it is a recipe for poisons to
destroy mice that is wanted, try one of the follow-
ing: (1) 301 b. lucerne chaff, loz. strychnia sulphate
and 5 or 6 gals, water, thoroughly mixed. (2)
451 b. green lucerne, loz. strychnia sulphate and \\
gals, water. (3) 601 b. crushed wheat, loz. strych-
nia sulphate and 2 gals, water. The United States
Department of Agriculture says that after putting
pinches of these poisons about in the time of the
mice plague in U.S.A., it was found that from 85
per cent, to 90 per cent, of the mice were destroyed.
* * * *
“117”: In a French village near the coast
I came upon an Aussie who had been on leave—very
much leave. He was in heated argument with a
fish-hawker, who was wildly gesticulating and ex-
claiming, “No compree.” I was just in time to
stop Billjim stoushing the bewildered native. “What
sort of a fisherman is he?” says the bloke from down-
under. “He’s never heard of Murray cod!”
* * * *
“Ne’er-do-Well” : Let me tell the tale of a
trip I took away back in the ’eighties, with Bandy
Andy Fraser, who used to describe himself as the
oldest drover in Queensland. A small, wiry man
with a long white beard, he was a recognised insti-
tution on the I'oads, for years was employed
regularly by Jock Robertson, manager of the Scot-
tish Australian Investment Co. We were taking
1000 head of cattle from Bungeworgorai and Tees-
water down to Wodonga, and when we came up
with the cook and the horse-tailer at the Whyenbah
crossing, the approach to which in those days was
very steep and nasty, they had the horses out and
had just started to unload the dray. Old Fraser
had a tempestuous and variegated flow of language,
and when he saw what they were at he let down
the floodgates. “What the are you
offenders doing?” “Unloading,” growled the cook;
“we’ll have to, to get the dray down there.” “Put
that stuff on again, you ” yelled Bandy Andy ;
“I’ll soon show you how to get it down.” He
put himself between the shafts, taking one under
each arm. . “Now,” he said, “two of you . get
on to each wheel and ease her down.” The dray
was a large one and had about two tons of loading.
A! e begged him not to insist on making us acces-
sories to his suicide. We besought him, if he was
determined to take his life, to go quietly into a
bend of the river and put a bullet through his hoary
old head. It was all to no purpose. He had the
experience; we had none. He was chockful of com-
monsense; we hadn’t as much brains among the
whole lot of us as would poultice fly’s hind leg.
Finally, he was boss and we had to blessed well do
as we were told. That settled it. Two of us got
on to each wheel and two hung on behind. Then we
moved her, Bandy Andy lying back manfully in the
shafts. As we got fairly over the first yard or so
of the descent the pace grew faster and faster, until
the old wheelbarrow took charge, tore itself out of
our restraining grasp, throwing us this way and that
and giving us a fleeting glimpse of a little man, all
arms and legs and whiskers, being violently pro-
pelled into space. The dray landed on the points
of the shafts in the sandy bed of the river, its
impetus turning it completely over and scattering
the loading in the sand and the water. Bandy Andy
gathered himself together unhurt, glared at us as
we lay in various postures taking stock of our cuts
and bruises, and ejaculated with an accumulation of
venom, “You noochums! I might ha’
known as much.” He was an uncomplimentary
little man when he was riled. That night in camp
he swore us to secrecy, but as he is dead now it
doesn’t matter.
* * * *
“Musketoon” : Have just met the champion
heavyweight sheep. This is a first-cross wether on
W. A. Dean's place at Coolana, near Forbes (N.S.W.).
The jumbuck weighed 2371 b. off shears and cut 271 b.
of wool last shearing. In 1916 it cut 271 b. and in
1917 261 b.
* * * *
“F.W: Can any Abo.-iiar inform the
house why Mrs. Cassowary always lays five eggs
and why one of the clutch is invariably paler and
smoother than the rest ? The popular theory
is that the pale egg contains a male g-erm, a sup-
position that numerous investigators have dis-
proved. Still its invariable presence must have
some significance.
* * * *
“S.H.” ; Gents, the champion blowfly killer !
He is known in the bush as the wood-adder, and is
a mottled brown stumpy lizard, about four or five
inches long, usually found under the bark of dead
trees and in huts. Watched one t’other night run
up and down my humpy for a catch of 15 blowflies
and six moths, and when I put the light out he was
looking for more.
“Ginger”: One of the curiosities of the
Carabungla (N.S.W.) district a few years back was
a ’possum-cat. Puss was by Joey out of Persia,
and her silver-grey fur overcoat would have made
a sassiety cat’s mouth water with the lust of covet-
outness. She was frequently solicited from her
owner, selector Tom Davey, but he wouldn’t trade.
The" bargaining came to an end when a small boy
with a pea-rifle took a hand. He and the ’possum-
cat were buried in the same grave.
* * *
Bill It.”: The best native tree for shade
in my opinion is the N. S. Wales South Coast booby-
alla. As a shrublet it may be transplanted into
almost any soil or climate, and will there resist the
most unfavorable conditions. It grows to maturity
in seven years and is then a rounded, bunchy orna-
ment from 14ft. to 20ft. high. When luxuriantly
grown the shadow it casts is so dense you can cut
your way into it with a tomahawk.


‘Jr<
m '
;V
Vi
-•
I
.
Spf
v:
HH
m
■
in
.
ass
■ >
km
.
• m
S
S»SS
: . !
■
m
WI
■I S
mtt
si
V/' V
issa
H
:;
1 tt IS 4..
V s ' *% ■
£3 •• #*•«-, . v.’ *
':.v; ;
IE
■ ■■
mm
' T . '
M
. SP«
The Open Road
The best side of motoring is the
delight of getting out into the
Country. The motor bestows
great advantages in this direc-
tion —economy of time—econ-
omy of travel— and the freedom
to go sight-seeing and visiting in
every direction. These trips will
be all the more delightful if
Australian-made
mm
are used. Their dependability
their strength, and the knowl-
edge that they will withstand
the roughest of roads and tracks
are factors that all keen tourists
appreciate. Then again, their
running cost is less than any
imported tyre—making for econ-
omy— in fact they are Australia’s
best, and best for Australians.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
(Founders of the Pneumatic Tyre Industry)
ALL STATES AND N.Z.
Mo uni Rack Wallaby —near Victoiicu


Some Coughs take a lot of “shaking off”
—generally several bottles of the ordinary
cough mixtures; but the worst and most
obstinate cough will disappear like magic
if treated with
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
Under the influence of this super-remedy
the improvement is immediate.
W. G. HEARNE & Co. Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
is
m
§
B
18
COLDS
COUCHS
0
LUNG
TROUBLES
CROUP
CHEST
AFFECTIONS
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street,
SYDNEY.
for the pleasure of meeting him, apparently.
He finds himself buried “in a saccharine sad-
ness, very toothsome and jolly.” In the
bath he is lost in admiration of his skin,
and says lie “could eat it,” which recalls a
vain old Australian politician who, on his
death-bed, invited visitors to admire the tex-
ture of the epidermis of his copious legs.
And lie meets a woman with a bawling baby
in a bus :
The woman at once began to unlace herself, expos-
mg a large red udder which she swung into the
babya lace. ‘Come on, if you don’t I’ll give
it to the gentleman opposite.”
The old Wells didn’t mix up with that
sort of literature. (Chatto and Windus,
London.)
An Old Way to Pay New Debts
ar Debt and How to Meet It
•J. E. Allen speaks with some authority. He
A\as secretary of the British Association on
y ar Imance from 1915 onwards, so he had
the monster under his eye and slept in the
sam-e bed with, it. The things lie says are
very true, very impressive and very much
calculated to make the hair of an Australian
treasurer stand up like Fourteen Points,
f °r Floyd George as a financier he has just
the same contempt as The Bulletin has for
n. M. Hughes, though he recognises that
George, like Hughes, was a great driving
force, with his mouth. George began in his
Budget of November, 1914, with the general
idea that the war should be wholly charged
up against loans, in which respect lie was
at least a respectable shadow of Hughes, who
believes that both war and peace should be
charged against loans. Thereby he gave
British finance a disastrous cant towards
the pit of insolvency, over which it hangs
like the Leaning Tower of Pisa. If it hangs
much more the eye at the top of the Tower
may notice Australian finance, which is in the
pit itself. George guessed the first year’s
war bill at £450,000.000, and he was only
£083.000,000 out. His successor, McKenna,
threw George's finance to the winds and be-
gan to charge a fairly large part of the war
invoice to revenue, but it was rather late.
Still it wasn’t so late as Australia left it,
seeing that. Australia didn’t start to do the
same thing at all.
J. E. Allen lays down these main proposi-
tions :
That ro country needs to borrow for war pur-
poses, however big the row, except when it is buying
supplies or hiring soldiers or other forms of service
from foreign countries. In that case it is generally
necessary to give the foreigner an lOU, because the
country which is at war can't afford to strip itself
of goods and money by way of cash payment. Of
course, a country whose resources are largely in th»
hands of the enemy is in the position of buying or
begging or borrowing almost everything from
foreigners.
The raising of money by loan in the country,
and to be spent on supplies produced in the country
is merely the giving of a p.n. when the document
i callv wanted is a tax receipt. Jt is the giving by
the nation to the same nation of its own promise
to pay itself, the assurance being backed by its
own security. The tax receipt will have to be
given some day, and it might as well be done now.
tl he fact that the nation can find the money to
give in return for one document is proved by the
tact that it does find it in return for the other
document.
The borrowing superstition is the cause of the
absurdly high prices which lead to strikes, riots,
bieakage of industries and all manner of devilment.
, ic f?„ , wa y® ldse when money, even bad money, is
plentiful. In Russia money was lately so bad and
piemitul that a loaf, in some places, cost 20s
dhcn the Government takes a million from the
(ountry m taxes and spends it in the country there
is stHJ a million in the country. If it does this
™ ° Ve *; i(: has had £6,000,000 of revenue
and the L ( ; IS the same old £1,000,000 in the coun-
r lei ' .P nces d ? n ’t alter. But if it does
cne deed by six successive loans there are £7,000.000
ot a sort of money in the country—£l,ooo.ooo of
origma l cash and £6,000,000 of Government paper
lucky 3 etitihtry. 11CC ° f the loaf only doubles ft fi a
These are ,T. Allen’s views about British
temporary war finance. One marvels what
he would say about Australia’s permanent
mac-e finance. Here the loan is floated daily
o make a chronic artificial abundance of
dubious money, and force up prices of food,
clothes, houses and land, so that prices will
foice up wages, till industries close because
IK« C f n t , pay th ? wages ’ and employment
shifts to places where, tor lack of a crazy
loan policy, wages are perhaps half what
half are ie ' e aiKl people are richer on the
¥ r ; l Al!en c COme s to the obvious conclusion
that the unfortunate war debt having been
incurred and having taken root in the inner-
most mnards of the people, it can’t be got
* d 01 ,l - v . an y Philtre, potion, nostrum, hocus-
pocus, abracadabra, witchcraft or sudden
siarp shock. The bill for interest and sink-
mg fund is estimated at £440,000.000 a year
M ben the United Kingdom was raked for
contributors to the super-tax or War Profits
tax it was found that incomes above £3OOO
a year, including all the war-profiteering
amounted .to ±247.000,000. So if the whofe
til U 1 C l °p n£,scated thp y wouldn’t much
mote than half meet the case. And though
those earnings which w°re wholly derived
from property could be seized, the big in-
comes of prosperous solicitors, barristers
merchants, writers, speculators, doctors and
so on- the men whose bulk capital can’t be
confiscated because they carry it under their
fiats —would simply disapnear. For every-
thing earned above the limit at which seiz-
roAAAB!ll, wh ? thei ' the limit was £3OO or
i 6 worker would be a voluntary un-
paid slave, and he would refuse to slave
JNobody with an income that had reached
the seizure limit would even take a ticket in
Tatt. s or back a horse, for a prize that
would be confiscated isn’t worth winning.
Mr. Allen presents a financial statement
showing how, in Ins opinion, Britain may
slowly wade out of debt with as little suffer-
ing as possible. But it isn't worth re-
printing in Australia. Here politicians talk
about paying off the war debt bv a few cop-
pers per century while they' assure the
public that, now the war is over, they hope
to increase the peace debt at quite a gor-
geous rate, and build houses and bridges
and capitals, also railways at the Back of
Blazes, and to maroon men on the land, and
put up the cost of living and make wages
still higher so that work will be impossible,
and plant jim-jams and other vegetables in
all directions. (Methuen and Co., London.)
Speech
With the increase of printer’s ink and
the pulping of forests to make paper, some-
thing very valuable to literature and thought
is in danger of being lost. The glory of a
language lies not merely in its volume or
the variety of phrase. Its richness of sound
and musical cadence have a big place ; and
there is a more intimate connection between
the sound and the .uea than is generally sup-
posed. Where people think well and have
room to let their souls expand there is gen-
erally found a tendency to broaden sounds,
to dwell upon the open vowels and to select
words —even words to express the simplest
everyday thoughts—with some reference to
them inner melody. Where people are pent
toe-ether and walled closely in. either by bad
economic conditions or by social conventions,
there is an opposite tendency to clip
words, to shorten vowels and to save
thought by stringing together set phrases.
In all English-speaking countries the art
of reading aloud is almost gone; the
art of speaking seems to be fast de-
caying. If the present deterioration con-
tinues, its effect cannot fail to be felt in
our literature. It is a very open question
whether the magic of our greatest poetry
can ever be felt by those who are incapable
of reading it with the accurate balance of
vcwel anu consonant sounds which only clean
and careful pronunciation can give. Tin l
same is probably true of our finest prose :
and the inference is that those who affect to
despise reading aloud ana the careful study
of speech are deliberately closing themselves
out from a realm of beauty and understand-
ing which to other generations brought the
richest color and fullest charm of life. Rome
had its cockney word-breakers as well as
London—people who were in too great haste
to speak their language or any language—
but it would be the strangest of all human
tragedies if a whole world became cockney
in spirit. The degeneration from that point
would be rapid. From the clipped and
phrase-bound tongue back to a mere chatter-
ing of apes would be but a step; and after
that the language of signs would probably
suffice to convey the more and more elemen-
tary human ideas. Language represents more
perfectly than anything else the degree and
extent of. a. nation’s advance ; and a language,
to live in arty really vital way, must be
spoken—not slurred or mumbled.
FRANK SALT.
A Satchel of Books
sma rt business-like spirit which animates
, 6 ll ‘, l ' Gll^on has at last broken out in
HmW’ Tt'i C , i- n u h -, Aclvel 'tising, It’s Whv and
11 V n Published, undertakes to tell you, for
a dollar, how to prepare advertising eopv, to
world SP T a Sunday-night attractions), why the
nmtli! e „ edS oU i'. £° ods » how to make religious in-
ph, n a PP et, smg, how to advertise to fill a
j Secu , re I n , l , oney for publicity, adver-
oing the Sunday-school, and so on. The author
H^r^ y fl a r ciate - editor of the Christen
‘W.k* fi ' lds " 10re sc °P e for his real talent
PublicTy CU Dep e art“ y ’
editor Tnorts°9? S f n * h L avy \": ei^ht quarterly whose
rsy \r e H .* h a*
nation adopting a living language belonging to a
Srr ir that a s °rf of or
bastard LJtm arrangement might be acceptable to
wi' a too possible objection is that a nation which
nf „ t i„ piol,d t? «?k rts own language in favor
J a known and widely-esteemed tongue such as
also be *>o pr°ud to adop?
mar J fan y ' b, (John a Mm-ray. r )° Wn together by a gram '
The Inky Way
“Vic”: Somebody writes (B. 29/5/T9)
that there was never a Melbourne Sunday
paper. He forgets the one and only edition
of Dan Barry’s Gossip, which I suspect
largely prejudiced Melbourne against Sun-
clay journalism. Dan, who was a junior re-
porter on Melbourne Evening Express be-
fore he took to the stage, secured an enor-
mous sale for his one issue bv “reporting”
t] ? e caving-in of Ballarat and the entombing
of 400 inhabitants. Then he went to Hobart
where his one-day Sunday yell reported the
bombardment. of Adelaide by the Russians.
Notwithstanding the exposure of this, he
later went to Adelaide and got out an issue
reporting the bombardment of Hobart bv
the Russians! But that one fell very flat.
Daniel had come to judgment.
A new lhyme (or thereabouts) has been
struck by an anonymous contributor to
Adelade Register (24/5/T9) on a point of
theology:—
And Christians swear by 13th First Corinthians.
I do myself; men will do so to nth sons.
D. 1.”: Australian marsupials have
broken into up-to-date fiction. In the Riddle
of the Purple Emperor the scoundrels who
steal the jewels stow them away in the
pouches of a menagerie of marsupials. It is
true that the authors include civet-cats
amongst the marsupials, but that is a mere
detail. In an old-time yarn an ostrich was
made to swallow a diamond : but the autopsy
afterwards must have been a messy business.
Sue : Jane and I met at the country
store and fell to a discussion of the recent
Red Page article on blank verse. The grocer
is an accomplished concertina-player, so his
opinion, flung at us from the flour-bin, de-
serves consideration. Here it is: “I don’t
caa>e ’ow many mistakes they is in the chune
as long as the time’s all right. I can’t abear
the time to be wrong!” A parallel to James’s
criticism on poetry; “Rhyme is merely an
ornament; metre is essential.”
Business, Bobbery, etc.
“H.H.” : There is a mistaken idea about
the plumber. When he is called per telephone
to repair a tap at Hose Bay he arrives
empty-handed, examines the tap with a wise
expression, and says lie must go home to
Balmain for his tools. lie sometimes makes
three separate journeys for tools, so that,
charging for time, the bill is £3 6s. In reality
the plumber is running various jobs at once.
While he is away supposedly looking for his
tools for one job he is doing another. In
busy times he is collecting for three differ-
ent kinds of time at once. The idea that
the plumber is a lunatic who always forgets
his monkey-wrench and that he prefers hard
travelling to easy plumbing is quite errone-
ous. He is really a born financier. If every
Treasurer was a plumber Australia’s
finances would be better.
Judge Gordon (S.A.) designed an advt.
the other day while hearing a civil suit con-
cerning canned fruits. A witness mentioned
that cases of preserves consigned by his firm
were often pillaged owing to the superior
quality of the goods. His Honor: “Ah, that
would make a good advertisement. Steve-
dore plying his hook upon the lid of one of
your cases. Below it, ‘All the lumpers pre-
fer our goods!’”
* * * *
“C.C.R.” : Here’s the S. M. Herald utter-
ing another horrible warning to young men :
Want thoroughly experienced Bookkeeper and Rent
Collector for Citv Estate Agent’s Office. Salary £3
week. State age, experience, 8227, Herald.
All for £3 ! It is some time now since a
minimum wage of £3 3s. was awarded to the
cleaners who sweep up the waste paper.
* * * *
There was some originality about the
scheme by which a Melbourne crook relieved
Charles Marshall of £95. Marshall had the
money in his hip pocket, and was sitting in
the Albert Park reserve, when a well-dress ?d
young man accosted him and inquired if he
had seen a Chinese doctor anywhere about,
as he had arranged to meet one there. His
talk and actions persuaded Marshall that
the young fellow “had gone west in the
head.” Still, the man amused Marshall by
giving imitations of Chaplin and Fairbanks,
doing one or two turns on his hands and
knees. He also ate grass. Marshall
thought he had better humor the joker when
he examined his coat lapel and asked to
see his watch. It seemed perfectly in keep-
mg with the man’s behavior when he sud-
denly ran away. But Marshall’s apprecia-
tion of the performance suddenly froze when
he felt in that hip pocket.
* * * *
Mel Bourne”: The wharfie observes all
the rules that help on the grand cause of
Go Slow. One is that no sling shall land
moie than loewt. at a time. An oversea
steamer lutely landed a sling of two rolls of
paper that went 281 b. over the limit. This
was more than the wharfies could stand. The
sling had to be sent back into the bowels of
the ship and one bale removed before thev
vvoiild touch it! Their passion for equality
of opportunity is very beautiful to witness.
within e loadin 8' f rom a stack
vuthm 10ft. of a sling and the other 100 ft.
distant, the rule must still be followed that
Stern?/ f nd i the di * tant car 8° shall supply
alternate loads. Were the near cargo gang
to fill two slings to the other gang’s one some
cow would be suspected of speeding „p
..Ji V M y T V n " : ,“ L ocally-made things are no
rnfim’ a 1 , mve Seal’d Australian-born Anna-
btlle declare on innumerable occasions
Strange to say, Annabelle has an Aussie
fiance—a returned officer. She has also a
Therefore 1 ' ' mi>ol^ ed ’ of course.
t eietoie, after his return, Lieut ’William
James often brought a box with him when he
came to canoodle Annabelle. and because of
i / on imported sweets they had to
be Australian. Soon William J noticed
Id!? / nna M lle did 110 t receive his sweets
with the old enthusiasm. She would nibble
castor < oif l amf w? ca ' u < a > d <iged a dose of
castoi-oil, and William J. had a stroiw sns-
delighttfortAnnahHP > roVidillg many eights of
slave? O,? be - 6 S / oun S brother and the
,9 evening he turned up with an
orna.ely-beribboned box, and at the sight of
hnKn a nabelLe S ey es sparkled and she
bubbled over. She was still gushin-r
half an hour later; and then w;k
liam J. played his trump. “Yes ” he
grinned “the box and ribbons were imported
My sister had them put by. But “bought
the chocolates to-day; and they were infde
Th? In a ?u UD,e of miles of th s room”
tT-?G ar p tbousands of Annabels in Xs-
l/? n'na Perha P? with a dinkum tariff their
d. and grandkids won’t have to he hlnffori
into appreciation of the locally-made? W ff d
SMOKKOH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The long day’s work is done at last
And here I sprawl at ease,
Watching the star-veil Night has cast
Over the whispering trees.
It’s good to sit and smoke your pipe
And let your thoughts run free,
Not plod down endless lanes of .type
Towards obscurity.
Like some ripe apple, Wisdom falls
Into the hats of those
Who sit and smoke when Nature calls
For evening's sweet repose.
The fussy man who’s never still
Has Folly for a mate,
And thoughts like diamonds never spill
Upon his heated pate.
But cunning Death will trip him yet
As he is rushing past ;
Over his head a tombstone set
Will keep him still at last.
He calls me “Loafer !•’’ with his eye
As he cuts grass next door ;
His rusty mower shakes the sky
With its terrific roar.
A falling star fades down (lw sky.
Ha, ha ! a portent grim !
I wonder now what god on high
Threw that hot world at him ?
N.s.w.
E. O’F.


mm
if®
m
mm
■
mm
mm
mmk
m
mm
WSHKBm
§
Hafefc. -
:
,v •
f .
t * «
/ - i- -'.
SB
if
• f, \ :
m
mm
as
1 1
mm
m
■
_
m
I ■
: '
a
H
m
m
-
i
WBm
; :
m
m
wm
■ ■’ ■ . ;
m
■
fH
IH' I
'L'
%
,-j
S?
llll
y
Ni
:.r. ■
;
'
y
■K
/>
11®
/
H
Si
■
><
HI
1
I
■
m
m
m
m
m
■
■
H :.
11189
m
■ m
Wm
Ull
r
-
/
n
J
M
H
«
i
I
■
i I
m
.
■
■
-
1
I*
t, v ,
m
B
m
i a.
bh
:
’Tjj
:
;■• S <
-
Hi
: 1
11 ' '‘i
V .
H ■
. $8
■
■MSi
H
■
■ :
i
m
m
m
n
I ■
m
\ ■ - *
i
ttSsi
- V*:
Sri
■
H
i i
a*
■
m
mm
iMBli
.
U
m
l
HI
i
m
: M
m&m
-
■I
■
Hi
ill
■
-
t . y
E7H
IHH
H
i SiS
i m
■
H
iE
Hi
mm
U
m
m
m
■
B
; :
:
■
Wm
mm
m
u
wm
mm i
usa
H
l
m HHj >'-:y
. v. :
i^Mr•*- -'■ r i.< <
■
I H
■
B'-
I :: v r
v.
- ran
; :
g H i
H
MIM
m
m
ft
©
a
TRADE MARK.
DURABESTOS” —The Hydraulically-compressed
ASBESTOS-CEMENT SHEET
Hade in Australia.
The Host Economical Roofing for Covering Large Areas.
.4 Durabestos Roof Improves with Age.
Samples and Prices on Application.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED,
Manufacturers,
Head Office:
Baptist Street, Redfern, N.S.W.
Posta/ Address:
Box 474 G.P.0., Sydney.
66 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
243 Collins St.,
MELBOURNE.
113-9 Currie St.,
ADELAIDE.
Lord St.,
PERTH.
Amelia St.,
BRISBANE.
Macquarie St.,
HOBART.
71 St. John St.,
LAUNCESTON.
And at WELLINGTON, N.Z.


Wool
Men!
Aerial transport may come.
But meantime Rail or Ship
your WOOL to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Sydney OR Brisbane. LTD.
HWIO^
m
ROiis
KOTOR OftS
23%.-^,
For the
Motor
Truck
NATIONAL
MOTOR OILS
are the best to use, because
they maintain in every
cylinder an unbroken wall of
protection against damaging,
power-stealing friction. They
are clean flowing, have high
flash-point and unmatched
viscosity.
Obtainable all Garages
and Storekeepers
in 1-gallon, 4-gallon Tins and
Barrels. Ask also for
National Motor Greases.
NATIONAL OIL CO. LTD.,
4 Bridge Street, Sydney.
JAMES WARDLE & CO., Adelaide.
m
&
<
v
<£
This Is the
Registered
Trade Mark
Of the best
place to get
your
Fishing Tackle,
Guns, Rifles,
Cartridges,
Tennis Goods, etc
818 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
<4
’hoMT FROM Hon?
There’s no hotel in all Melbourne'
that can offer you better accom-
modation. Rooms are airy and
modern, and the menu and service
par excellence. Tariff by day, 10/6.
EtM'S ARMS HOT!
Cl SWANSTON ST L FUNDERS L A .“*.
MELBOURNE
•llHlHliililli
CLAUDE K. EEBBj Proprietor.
L
mm
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
BHAS,
BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust-Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES— Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS:
Zinc Producers’
“Collins House,*
Sydney Agent:
R. N. KIRK, 25 O’Connell Street.
Association Proprietary, Limited,
360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Adelaide Agent:
A. W. 1,12 WIS, 62 Brookman Buildings.
asss&aiMMßaMM
5
I
V
m.
imißuiiiniiiiniiiiiiß
Mother appreciates the Soft,
White Light of Laurel
Mother alway insists upon getting full value
for her money. When a certain brand of
goods has been tested and found satisfactory,
she orders it again and insists upon receiving
that brand only. Laurel Kerosene is mother’s
favorite light. Laurel doesn’t strain her
eyes; it allows sewing and knitting to be
done at night-time in comfort.
No light is more restful to the eyes, and, at
the same time, so clear and brilliant as the
soft, white light of Laurel.
Laurel is economical, too; the wicks last
longer, and the lamps do not require re-filling
so often.
If you would experience what good lighting
means, follow the example of most mothers
and ask for Laurel.
For lighting, heating and cooking it cannot
be excelled.
r«y
Wo
f, The soft white light **
Vacuum Oil Company
Proprietary Limited
for SPEED
STRENGTHI
SAFETY
Equip with
Spencer-Moulton
Three-R ibbed
'Vyrct.
THREE RIBBED
THEIR grip on loose or
saturated roads reassures
you at the first real test; their
cushion-like resiliency is always
a delight; while on sharp surfaces
their well-known toughness gives
the very highest degree of safety.
The more difficult the conditions
of climate or country, the greater
your appreciation of Spencer-
Moulton Reliability.
Send for Catalogue.
SPENCER - MOUL TON ALL - BRITISH
SOLID RUBBER TYRES ARE WINNING
THE SAME UNIVERSAL APPROVAL .
STOCKISTS i Cape Town , Johannesburg,
Melbourne , Sydney, Christchurch , Welling*
fan, Cctit o, Colombo , Madras , Singapore,
Klanz, Kuala-Lumpur. Medan . Saigon.
P.C.H.—166
GEO. SPENCER, MOULTON & CO., Ltd.
77-79, Cannon Street, London, E.C. 4.
Works : Kingston Mills, Bradford-on-Avon, Wilts.
Port Lincoln, on the west coast of South
Aus., has a big scheme for providing water.
The first contract was let to a co. which got
into difficulties and stopped operations. Sid-
ney Kidman has now taken over the job ; he
says there is no money in meat, so he is
going to try contracting—especially in con-
crete.
Canada has decided to remove, so far as
Britain is concerned, the 5 per cent, which
it added to its big tariff to raise war revenue.
The idea that the sacred importer shouldn’t
be touched while the war lasted never struck
the Canuck. He doesn’t burn incense to
the same Baal as we do.
Haig and Beatty are to be earls, and
peerages will go to the army commanders —
Horne, Plumer, Byng, Rawlinson, Birdwood
and Allenby. Money grants usually go
with such honors. After the Boers were
settled, Roberts received an earldom and
£lOO.OOO, and Kitchener a viscountcy and
£50,000.
“Italians will own all the cane lands in
North Queensland before 20 years are over,”
reported the local A.W.U. secretary to the
Federal Sugar Commission. Well, the
Italian is a much more promising settler
than the Russian who Bolsheviks in the
North. Still, it is humiliating for the
Anglo-Saxon Australian to be told by his
own union official that he is a failure and
that a swifter man of another breed is on
his trail.
Freetrade England is getting agitated
about Jap competition too. For the last
20 years the best commercial schools in Man-
chester have been visited by Japanese study-
ing the intricacies of cotton-spinning. In
Germany and Austria, in like manner, they
learned how to make toys. Now, from iron
plates to toy motor-cars, from cotton goods
to fancy feathered articles, japan, with its
ninepence-a-day labor, is capturing all the
markets of the world that fool-politicians
leave open to them.
Maoriland may thank the stupidity of
officialdom for much of the worry it has
lately had through the Indian labor invasion.
M.L. law provides an educational test, but
instead of changing the test matter fre-
quently, officialdom has been handing out
the same old stuff ever since the law saw
daylight. So our cute fellow-subjects in
Suva started a school to teach their breth-
ren how to gabble passable responses to
educational test-questions if they cared to
go to M.L. And a lot of their brethren have
been caring to go.
Frank Anstey, back from Europe, says
that the Australian war debt, which he sets
at £300,000,000, can only be met by return-
ing a Labor Government —that kind of body
being famous for paying off debts. Said
Government will “turn to account the im-
mense wealth held up in the banks and
locked up in land” as the only way out of
a terrible situation. Australia could pay
off its war debts in a fdw years by reducing
its imports by one half and doing some work
itself of a better sort than wharf-lumping.
But Anstey, it seems, would rather plunder
the Australian cocky farmer and the Aus-
tralian savings-bank depositor than touch
the rich importer.
Linen manufacture got an early start in
Sydney. In a despatch -dated August 14,
1804, Governor King said there were then
nine looms at work in the colony, turning
out 100 yards a week. He observed that the
quantity would increase monthly, and that
the time should not be far distant when
the inhabitants were wholly supplied with
locally-made linen. But King reckoned with-
out the importer. That unpatriotic person
soon discovered a way of making a few
pounds for himself by acting as a foreign-
labor agent. The man who destroys local
looms by dropping a nut or a bolt into the
works is an 1.W.W.-er and a scoundrel. But
the one who does it just as effectively by
abolishing a protective tariff and keeping it
abolished is a Right Thinking Person.
That good and gaitered man, the Bishop
of Riverina, has been holding forth at Hay
(N.S.W.) about the communistic principles
of the Bolsheviks. They failed, he alleged,
because the men who ran the show “were
anti-Christian.” The first communistic
experiment we know of was that of the pure
and early church described in the Book of
Acts, and all that is recorded of it is that
two Early Christians were killed by an
apostle in the scuffle. Apparently the move-
ment died about as soon as it was born, for
it is never mentioned again. The com-
munistic idea struck the snag from which
it never recovered when man decided that he
wanted his bedroom—incidentally his wife’s
bedroom also—to be private property, or his
own bloated monopoly.
From 11.M.A.5. Huon :
Put on record a word or two of praise in regard
to Australian workmanship given unsolicited by one
of Vicars-Maxims’ experts. On the voyage from
Gibraltar to Devonport the destroyer encountered
a most severe gale. First day out we were battling
with a head sea which hourly increased in violence
till the wind and waves, changing in direction, but
not violence, gave us a chance to run before the
weather. This we did, steaming 18 knots, but
when nearly across the Bay of Biscay the wind
veered again and started to drive us into the bay.
We therefore had to turn and steam into the gale
again till we had another chance of running. Then
we made 20 knots into El Ferrol, in the north of
Spain. We arrived there after losing all our boats
and having after-torpedo-tube and torpedo- and
hydrophone-house smashed in. We thought we were
going to get a night’s rest and some hot tucker,
but shortly after arrival we received a wireless
from the Parramatta, saying she was almost out of
fuel and was not sure of her position, except that
she was on a lee shore and required immediate
assistance. Out we went again in search of our
mate, and had the good fortune to find her and show
her the way in, where she arrived with only a
couple of tons of fuel. Whilst at Ferrol Mr. Muir,
who had charge of many big ships of all descrip-
tions whilst in the employ of Vicars-Maxim, and
who is now in charge of the construction of several
Spanish men-o’-war, examined our for’ard oil-tanks
and magazines. He found the bottom badly bat-
tered about and frames twisted in all directions, and
reported that it was only the splendid workmanship
which had been put in her that saved the ship from
breaking up. He was much interested to know
where a ship as good as that had been built.


RELIABILITY
In these splendid new 1919
Studebakers the ultimate skill of
chemist, draftsman and engineer
have combined to produce the
finest material and design, and to
co-relate in construction perfect
alignment and fitting.
Added to these basic essentials of reliability in
building quality automobiles are such extra
features as A SEPARATE MOTOR EACH
for the LIGHTING and STARTING
systems, A MAGNETO for IGNITION, and
a complete “HOT SPOT” MANIFOLD
equipment with the ZENITH or BALL and
BALL CARBURRETTORS to insure
perfect and economical vaporisation.
More power in ratio to weight, irreversible steering gear, over-size
brakes and tyres are further “trouble proof” quality features.
Call at our showrooms and let us demonstrate to you the “reason why” of these
beautiful new models.
“They sell THemselves.”
THE STUDEBAKER CORPORATION OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
Head Office for Australia: 177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. South Australian Branch: 1 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Turner Bros., 398 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Armstrong C. & M. Agency, Hay Street, Perth.
C. C. & M. A. Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
New Zealand: Adams Limited,
Christchurch,
Palmerston North,
Timaru,
Wanganui.


ill
“Unalloyed” Dyes
The dyes used in Hose
of Luxitc are “unalloyed”—not
loaded with heavy metallic com'
pounds to give the hose a glossy,
heavy appearance.
The soft, full-bodied shimmer of
Hose of Luxite is gained by the
use of rich, fine-stitched materials,
pure-dyed.
That is why its elegance and
beautv last through repeated wash-
ings.
The wide range of styles and
prices will suit every purse and
purpose.
Don’t accept substitutes, and
think you have “Luxite.”
Insist upon the genuine.
If your dealer is unable to
supply you, write us.
Walter Cathro Pty. Ltd.,
York Street : : Sydney.
FOR SEA SICKNESS
& TRAIN SICKNESS
MOTHERSILL’S has received the
unqualified endorsement of the leading
papers of the world, and the finest testi-
monials from the world’s greatest men,
women, and institutions. Amongthese are
Bishop Taylor-Smith (Chaplain General
of the British Forces), Doctors, Bankers,
Polytechnic Tours, Salvation Army, etc.
Sold Under a Positive Guarantee to
Prevent ar.d Cure Sea or Train
Sickness or Money Returned.
MOTHERS! LL’S is guarantee! rot to contain
Cocaine, Morphine, Opium, Chloral, or any of
the coal-tar products.
NO BAD AFTER EFFECTS*
All Chemists, in Large and Small Boxes.
MOTHERSILL REMEDY CO., LTD.,
Coner Clarence S Market Sts.. Sydney.
The Mark of Ownership
is Essential to all Personal or House-
hold Linen as a Safeguard against
Loss. That’s why you need
mm
to mark everv Garment or Article.
Beats Marking Ink. Any name woven
into a Fine Cambric Tape in Fast
Color. Easily sewn on. Be Sure
and Ask for CASH’S—THE BEST.
Prices—l2doz. 4/6; 6doz. 3/3; 3doz. 2/3.
Sold by all Best Drapers.
Made in Australia by
J. & J. Cash Pty., Ltd.,
85 Cubltt Street, Richmond, VIC.
Write for Style Book.
THE GREAT BRITISH
RHEUMATIC REMEDY.
GOUT v
AND RHEUMATIC PILLS
The Famous Medicine that relieves
R I IJMATISM, GOUT, LUMBAGO, SCIATICA,
The Great Discovery of ihe Age.
Purely Vegetable. Sure and Safe.
Al! Drug Stores. English price, 1/3 and 3/-.
Prout & Co., 229, Strand, London.
WHITE
LISSUE
HANDKERCHIEFS
FOR LADIES
Ladies should see the delightful
range of all-white Lissues : as
exquisitely soft, and sheer, and
enduring as the world-famed
colored-bordered Lissues. In
wash and wear a constant and
delightful surprise. Lissue label
on every Lissue Handkerchief.
Dainty Wh'te and Fashionable
Border Colors.
ws
pv« a s4l pf4Sr ANC * t * (W ' 3
WHITE
PYRAMID
REGO.
HANDKERCHIEFS
FOR MEN
Men who like the fine, absorbent,
and durable qualities of color-
border Pyramids will find all-white
Pyramids at least as good. They
offer the same excellence of wear
in a handsome range of all-white
designs. Pyramid label on every
Pyramid Handkerchief.
Fancy white border designs and plain
hemstitched; also smart border colors.
TOOTALCLOTH:
The Guaranteed
Velvet Fabric,
equal to silk
velvet for grace-
ful draping. Rich
colors that will
not rub off. In
plain and cord,
27 inches wide.
TARANTULLE
(Regd.): The
quality Cotton
Fabric for Lin-
gerie and Baby-
wear. In three
weights, 40 inches
wide.
LISSUE HAND-
KERCHIEFS
(Regd.) for ladies.
Dainty exquisite
self-white and
indelible color-
border designs.
PYRAMID HAND-
K ERCHIEFS
(Regd.) for men.
Correct self-
white and exclu-
sive indelible
color-border
designs.
NAMRIT: The
Indelible Voile.
In printed
designs and self-
colors, 4oin.wide.
TOBRALCO
(R egd .): The
Cotton Wash-
dress Fabric
in world - wide
use. Self - white
and indelible
colors, 27/28 ins.
wide.
TOOTAL PIQUE:
White and indel-
ible colors. 43/44
inches wide.
TOOTAL SHIRT-
INGS for men
and women. In-
delible colors, 32
inches wide.
Sold by Drapers and Stores.
These goods assure
satisfaction in color,
wash, and wear. Their
guaranteed quality
has made their popu-
larity world-wide.
SEE NAME ON SELVEDGE.
ALL COMMUNICATIONS TO
G.P.O. BOX 1035, MELBOURNE.
TOOTAL BROADHURST LEE CO., LTD.. MANCHESTER. ENGLAND.
THE, PALACE HOTEL
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OF PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
JOHN T. GLOWREY, Proprietor.
The Self-Filling 1
Safety Fonntain
fills itself instantly
from any ink supply
—cleans itself in
filling—and cannot
leak.
Ask fop ONOTO INK-
Best for all pens.
Price 17/*, also
Onoto Valve-
less for those who
do not want a Self-
Filling Safety Pen 12/6
and upwards of all Sta-
tioners, Jewellers, and
Stores.
Manufacturers : Thos. De La
Rue & Co , Ltd., Bunhill Row,
London, E.C.
Managing A- ents : Norman Baker &
Longhurst, Sydney & Melbourne.
LOADING CHAFF BY GRAVITATION. (No power required.)
MANUFACTURERS OF LABOR-SAVING MACHINERY.
GRINDING, DRESSING, MIXING AND PACKING MACHINERY.
MACHINERY SPECIALISTS. FACTORY EXPERTS.
Schumacher Mill Furnishing WorKs Pty. Ltd.
PORT MELBOURNE, VICTORIA. [3
Returned soldiers learning pottery at
Brunswick Technical School (Vic.) were told
by Harry Lauder that his father was a
potter.
Advt. in Melb. Argus from one who knows
the weaknesses of the cultured: —
French Conversational Club. —Speaking made easy,
Parisian Frenchman; instructive afternoons, even-
ings, Is. weekly; refreshments.
Heaps of people would storm Hades for a
free cup of tea and a stale bun.
“D.F.”: It is often assumed that the
crossing of the Blue Mountains by Blaxland,
Lawson and Wentworth in 1813 was the
first successful attempt to get over into the
Murray basin from the eastern coast; but
from the chart of Ensign Barallier’s journey
in 1802 it would appear that he reached the
Abercrombie River, a tributary of the
Lachlan.
A. Anstrutlier Lawson, D.Sc.. Professor
of Botany at Sydney Uni., lately won the
Makdougall Brisbane Prize at Edinburgh
Uni. Lawson, who came from Fifeshire, is
a son of Scottish novelist Mrs. J. Iverr-
Lawson, and a brother of artist James Ken-
Lawson. He has been in Sydney talking
about ferns (he is simply oozing with infor-
mation about ferns) since 1913.
“F.N.W.”: A queue of soldiers were lined
up outside the ship's baker’s shop, waiting
to draw their issue of bread. The lordly
baker wiped his hands on a cloth, and
shouted: “Right-o, my young ’eroes I The
first Digger stepped briskly to the door, and
said, in a high voice: “A penn’orth of stale
pastry, please, and mother says not too many
wedding-cakes, as she doesn't like them.”
A Svdney Court the other day heard a case
in which the state of a footpath entered into
the evidence. Defendant’s counsel repeatedly
referred to the “footwalk.” An irritated
magistrate at length rasped: “Footpath, if
you please, Mr. . We don’t want any
Americanisms here.” Counsel replied
gravely: “In Cmsar’s day the Romans said
‘footwalk,’ and I submit that it was a period
of history when they neither knew nor ex-
pected America.”
The theory that Australians don’t take
naturally to the sea or make good sailors
did not get much support in the old days.
When Commissioner Bigge, a very important
man in his day, sailed from Sydney to Van
Diemen’s Land in 1820 in the Recovery, the
ship was manned exclusively by native-born
seamen in order to ensure a trustworthy
crew. Contemporary writers tell us that
the best and most daring seamen among the
sealers and whalers were the native-born.
“The Oldest Inhabitant” : Apropos Bam
Mossman (B. 5/6/T9). "Te Whore” is in
error in saying that Sam gave his name to
Mosman Bay. That honor belongs to
Archibald Mosman, who with his twin brotner
George arrived in Sydney in 1828. Archi-
bald and a partner named Bell selected each
four acres on Great Sirius Cove. The title
was granted by Gov. Darling on January 1,
1831. Hence Mosman’s Bay. Later Mos-
man bought Bell out and until 1838 used the
bay as the base for whaling operations.
“Croson”: Consider the Salv’army how it
grows! In Victoria, besides the “reforma-
tories” at Bayswater and Brunswick, it has
a boys’ home at Box Hill and an Aged
Women’s Retreat at Camberwell; and now
it has set up an Aged Men’s ditto out near
Blackburn. These are always being added
to, and all were bought, not bequeathed. Yet
the Army doesn’t bang the drum as it did,
nor is the collection-box poked under one’s
nose as insistently. It probably never had
so many friends, for all that. Most re-
turned Diggers have a good word to say for
Y-Emma, more have a better one for the
Comforts Fund, but practically all reserve
their best for old Blood and Fire.
F. W. Woolworth, whose death was re-
ported from America the other day, owned
N’York’s tallest sky-scraper: the visitor
pays 10 cents and is elevated 64 storeys. The
money to build the ornate “Cathedral of Com-
merce” came out of five- and ten-cent stores.
Frank Woolworth hatched the five- and ten-
cent store idea in 1878, when he had a capi-
tal of £7O, not all his own. The Woolworth
Co. now has 1030 stores, with a turnover
last year of £22,000,000. One remarkable
feature is that it turns its money over,
on the average, every 10 weeks. A cent
profit in the dollar (that is 1 per cent, on
turnover) means £220,000 profit a year.
That’s what population does; and the fact
that over 85 per cent, of the goods handled
are of all-American production explains the
population. Horderns’, though they don’t
limit their shelves to 10-cent goods, can’t
build up a £22,000,000 turnover for the good
reason that more than half the people who
supply the goods live outside Australia.
“J.C.1.”: “C. 8.” (B. 29/5/19) says that
the Australian manufacturer of linseed-oil
has a protection of only Bd. per gallon and
the producer of raw material has no pro-
tection at all. The manufacturer hasn’t
even Bd. protection all round. As to most
of the imports he has only 6d. The Aus-
tralian manufacturer established himself dur-
ing the war, when exportation from the cheap
markets was practically prohibited; now
peace is at hand the duties are altogether
inadequate. The British linseed-oil manu-
facturer obtains £l9 10s. per ton for linseed-
cake, which is a mere by-product to the Aus-
tralian manufacturer, who can secure, at
most, £9 per ton, and this at a time when
seed is selling at over £4O landed in
Australia. For every ton of seed he
buys he obtains 14cwt. of cake or meal.
Under these circumstances it is highly
improbable that the local crushers can
continue to compete against the im-
ported oil carrying a trifling duty of 6d.
per gallon. If the cultivation of linseed by
the farmer for both flax and oil milling pur-
poses is to be encouraged, it is advisable not
only to protect the industries already estab-
lished, but to subsidise the grower by con-
tinuing the bounty. The consumption of lin-
seed-oil in Australia approximates 2,000,000
gallons per annum. The pioneer oil manu-
facturers of Australia have installed a plant
producing 1.800,000 gallons per annum ; and
the two mills operating in Australia are
capable of producing 2,400,000 gallons. But
their mere capacity won’t save them. The
industry lias to meet the very cheapest
labor competition : and to save it the protec-
tion must be substantial.


SteuxM)
Speedometer.
The first in the hearts of the
Motorists. On 95% of all
Cars made. Either Bracket
or Dashboard type. Vari-
ous types for various Cars.
From £3/5/- to £4/10/-
complete.
Stewaftb
Vacuum System.
The world’s standard petrol
feed. New standard on
85% of all Cars made.
Once installed always in-
stalled. Price 77/6.
dtmaltb
Hand Warning Signal.
Scatters the crowds. All gears
cut from steel bar and file hard.
Will outlast the car. Price 35/-
j dtewaftb
No-Glare Lens.
Scatters the Light. Does not kill
it. Motorists everywhere are tak-
ing out smoked, colored and
pressed glasses and fitting the
Stewart No-Glare Lens.
Price 15/- per pair.
NOTICE!
TO MOTORISTS
AND CAR OWNERS
whose Cars are now or will he fitted with
sdtewm
NECESSITIES
YOUR
Equipment
MPST GIVE YOD SERVICE
This is not an Advertising Catch=phrase
IT IS A GENUINE WORLD-WIDE POLICY.
STEWART Service does not end with the designing and manufactur-
ing of a Stewart Accessory. At this point it represents a concrete
purpose, that is, to build an essential accessory that stands above
all others for quality and performance, then to doubly ensure its long
and satisfactory service by a “service organisation” throughout tl°e
world, ready to give prompt and efficient service to every owner or user
of a Stewart product.
Every leading Motor-garage and Motor Accessories Dealer in Aus-
tralia carries Stewart Necessities. Any part of a Stewart Product from
the smallest screw to a complete outfit can be supplied either from
stock or order in a few hours time.
If your Stewart Speedometer is not registering your tyre-mileage
and petrol consumption, drop into the nearest garage', where it can be
Put right in a few moments. Tiie materials and workmanship that go
into the making of Stewart Speedometers are the finest that can be
procured. They will outlast any car. They have a mileage record of
nearly 300,000 miles. If the chain link goes or the fibre pinion wears
after you have run several thousand miles, slip in a new one, and your
speedometer is as good as when originally installed.
If the head is not registering correctly, your garage will send it
into headquarters, where special calibrating machinery is installed for
adjusting the speedometer accurately. If your car is fitted with some
other speedometer which is not giving satisfaction,, install a Stewart.
The first cost is nothing as compared to tjje long satisfactorv service to
follow'.
The above remarks apply equally as well to Stewart Vacuum
Tanks, Hand-operated and Motor-driven Warning Signals, Search-
lights, Spark-plugs and other Stewart Necessities. THEY ARE BUILT
FOR SERVICE, and their service is ensured by a organisation
throughout the world not approached by any other manufacturer.
Insist on a STEWART—Do Not Accept a Substitute.
ANY LEADINQ MOTOR ACCESSORIES DEALER
OR GARAGE IN AUSTRALIA CAN SUPPLY YOU.
Cooper Engineering Co. Limited
Sydney Melbourne.
flanufacturers and Distributors of the
Famous
Products.
Not a spot light. Picks out
the sign posts, house num-
bers anti difficult roads at
night. Strong, handsome,
efficient. Price 42/6.
iMewanb
Motor-driven
Warning Signal.
Fitted with high-class electric
motor—not a screeching vibrator.
Gives a loud, clear warning.
Price £2/17/6.
-RS
-■ hhml
xMeuxVtb
V-Ray Spark Ping
Built for Service. Rapidly
becoming standard among
Motorists throughout Aus-
tralia. Price 4/6.
BE&SL.-l
■ >i
Motor Guard
Protects both you and the
other fellow. Saves radia-
tors, headlights, mud-guards
and other possible damages.
Better than insurance.
Ford Model, 75/-
Other Models, 85/-


1 Cake Cuticura Soap
and 1 Tin Ointment
Heal Rash On Little Boy.
Would Scream With Pain.
“My little boy suffered with a rash
all over his neck, chest and shoulders.
It first broke out in small
Ul
watery pimples and en-
larged. The rash was very
itchy and I had to tie a
bandage on his hand as he
would scratch until he would
scream with pain and he
could not sleep.
“Seeing how another child was cured
by Cuticura Soap and Ointment I sent
for a sample. After a few days I saw
an improvement. I bought a cake of
Soap and a tin of Ointment and my
child was healed.” (Signed) Mrs.W.
Heath, 212 Denison St., Camperdown,
N. S. W.
Cuticura Soap and Ointment are
ideal for every-day toilet uses.
Soap to cleanse and Ointment to heal.
“R. lowns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
Sold by dealers throughout the world.
ffmt.
One‘BEST’Light
Gives more Light than
Six Electric Lights, or Ted
Kerosene Lamps or One
Hundred Candles.
Burns 90# Air 10* Gas
A beautiful, pure white, steady,
safe light. No Wlek! tio Urente?
So Smoke? Dio Odor? Hang or Set
it auvwliere. Over 100 Styles.
These Lamps being Portable
they require no fitting.
Let us post you a
Best Light
Wall Lamp
complete, which gives 100-candle power light
for 42/6 Post Free
Send for Catalogue No. 821, which also
contains Hollow Wire System of Lighting
BRANDT BROS. LTD.
Air-Gas Engineers
236 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
ELEY
CARTRI DC Es^
Always Reliable
HUH!
Hi
m
m
m
mm
a
ELEY ‘UNIVERSAL’
A Light-Brown Cartridge,
loaded with 3 drs. T.S. Black
Powder and ii oz. of shot.
ELEY
380
Automatic
Hammerless
for Webley & Scott or
Colt Automatic Pistols
ELEY3B
S&W Revolver
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS.
420, George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
ELEYBROS. L? LONDON
r v r
Ar -—"A
tin
A/
\\\\W\W
0
//;/
//
7pf\ V
Little
Fingers
Leave Big
Marks
Johnson’s Pre-
pared Wax is
proof against finger marks. It imparts a
brilliant, glass-like surface with the sheen
of a mirror, protecting the varnish from
moisture and heat.
contains no oil. It does not become sticky in
warm weather and cannot gather dust. It cleans
and polishes in one operation. It preserves the
varnish—covers up mars and scratches —pre-
vents checking—restores the original charm and
beauty of the finish.
Johnson’s Prepared Wax is unexcelled for pol-
ishing
Piano Gramophones Furniture Motor Car
Floors and Woodwork Linoleum and Leather Goods
You will be more than pleased with the results
of a single applio f of Johnson’s Prepared
Wax. Your dealei provide you with John-
son’s products. If he does not keep them in
stock he can easily procure them from us.
S. C. JOHNSON & SON, Manufacturers
379 Kent Street, SYDNEY, N.5.W.
j? *, '
Ml
Ilk
Other Johnson
Products of
equal merit are:
Johnson’s
Cleaner
Johnson’s
Carbon
Remover
Johnson’s
Radiator
Cement
V
is
©
mm
m
warn.
mm
m
3S
o
05
©
I
ill
THE TOUCH TELES
Glide smoothly, never grate. j
Artists, Draughtsmen, Engineers,
Architects, Drawing Students, Busi-
ness Men—these are just a few of the
classes who buy VENUS Pencils regu-
larly.
H
iff—L
are not a luxury, they are a
necessity for the best work.
w
w
Made in 17 degrees, 6B to
9H, and 3 styles of Copying.
OF ALL STATIONERS AND ARTISTS’-
MATERIAL DEALERS THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
“Biobox”: If the camera can’t lie it can
at least juggle with the truth. When we toured
with the Burns-Johnson fight film the boss reckoned
the latter part of the picture so slow that we cut
out Burns at his dreariest, substituting some of his
best efforts of the first few round's from a duplicate
copy. It saved many yawns and gave Tommy a
chance to the last. We toured thousands of miles
with the doctored picture, and neither pug nor
parson spotted the duplication.
“Hump”: The padre arranged for the
brigade to have a gramophone while we were resting
at Lucid (Palestine), but the tunes were mostly
Moody & Sanky. We gave ’em a fair trial and
then the gramo. became silent. The padre inquired
one day of Bluey Gray, “Are you tired of the
gramophone?’* “No,” said Bluey, “we use it every
night.” The padre listened that evening and, hear-
ing nothing, came over. He found the gramo. disc
marked out for roulette purposes and Bluey thriving
as croupier.
* * * *
A great game, American “college” foot-
ball ! In a magazine just to hand, the methods of
the hero—for whom all the reader’s sympathies are
expected—are described. His great trick was to
jump over the opposition, and come down, “all alone
in enemy country, amid booting, kneeing, tearing
barbarians. He floated down with a smile. His one
precaution was to keep both cleated feet ahead of
him, so that he always clawed with them, with a
nonchalant but precise gesture, the face of the first
savage rushing to him. After that, satisfied with this
execution, and with the three or four yards he had
gained, he lay very still and let defeated fury have
its will of his body. He accepted the kneeing, the
grinding, the concerted effort to make him one with
the earth, a smile on his face.”
* * * *
“Alligator Charlie”: I have two Greener
guns exactly alike and So far as pattern goes there
is nothing to choose between them; yet one of
them has far better penetration than the other. At
a given distance No. 1 will drive the shot through
one side of a benzine-tin with odd grains going
through the other side. With the same class of
cartridge No. 2 will drive the shot through both
sides of the tin. Why ? Again, a friend had a
hammer-gun with exceptional penetration; he de-
cided on making it into a hammerle’ss one, but
since the stock has been changed the penetration is
nothing like it was formerly. Three automatic-
guns tried under same conditions gave different
results so far as penetration went; two were fair,
while one was well beyond the average. Again,
why ?
* * * *
“Parry O.” (at sea) : Saw most of the
’chasing and flat-racing, in Blighty since the Armis-
tice. Poethlyn, lhe Grand National winner, is a
plain-looking nag. He screws to the right at all
his fences, but jumps wonderfully fast. Barney
Carslake is riding in great form ; his finish on Lord
Durham’s Callander in the Newbury Cup (straight
mile) when he beat the favorite (Sol Joel’s River-
shore) by a head was a great effort. A nice two-
year-old half-brother to King Offa, by Steadfast
(he cost 3200 guineas as a yearling), made his debut
at this meeting. Old-man Wootton has 62 horses
in training, with young Stanley in charge. Had a
look at Taylor’s Manton stable. Gainborough shows
great quality, but is small. What strikes the
Aussie is how “big” they race their horses, and
what babies the youngsters are when put into train-
ing. Never in the history of English racing have
such crowds turned up as during this year. As to
the arrangements made on some of the courses for
their comfort —-well, I’ve seen better at picnic-
meetings out Cunnamulla way.
* * * *
There is a curious development in soccer
football in England. When it introduced profession-
alism, over 20 years ago, the ordinary Saturday
afternoon amateurs soon recognised that they had
no chance with the carefully trained pro. who lived
for and on the game, so they took to hockey or
some other sport. For years before the war an
international team of England would not include
more than two amateurs at the outside. These
were always the product of the Great Schools, which
played the game—generally with some odd local
rules —long before the public took it up. They
still sent to the universities a steady stream of
fine players, who in combination made one team
calling itself the Corinthians that could hold its
own with the best professional clubs. The latest
idea is to get the schools to drop tradition and
admit that soccer is really not The Thing for a
Gentleman to play. Aristocratic Eton has already
done so, and the others are likely to follow that
lead; after which the playing of soccer will be
just about equivalent to voting the Labor ticket.
* * * #
“0.K.”: The late Herbert Power was one
of the original members of the V.R.C. committee,
when the new club was formed in 1864. Committee-
men were practical sports in those days, and young
Herbert Power was above all things an amateur
rider. Which was why he came to be one of the
founders, in 1875, of the V.A.T.C., an institution
formed expressly to encourage “gentlemen jockey-
ship.” Worth noting that his best horses were
nearly all little ’uns, Savanaka, perhaps, being not
quite so small as Pendil, yet nearly as big as Diffi-
dence, winner of the Sydney Cup in 1899. Etra
Weenie was another small and speedy one that
carried the brown jacket and white cap; nor was
Merriwee, hero of the Melbourne Derby and Cup
“double,” a much heavier bit of horseflesh than
AYilari, who won the Derby for Mr. Power a year
or two later. The old gentleman couldn’t fairly
be described as beloved of race-goers in general,
save as a reputable identity. The public, as a,, rule,
didn’t get wind of his good things many days in
advance of the race, and the mere secretiveness of
the stable earned it a particular reputation for
trickiness. One always had the feeling that Power
and his racing connections derived extra-pleasure
from a win when the public was not “on.”
* * * *
“Trot” : Of course the Maorilanders came
armed with what the Sydney papers called a “war
cry,” solemnly printed in the alleged language of
Henare, with an accompanying translation. The
thing was mere gibberish—a quaint mixture of
what the Maori tongue produced when it first
struggled with the pakeha language, and having
no more meaning than last week’s beer. As the
Maori knew nothing about football and his language
was therefore without a word descriptive of inflated
leather, and as he certainly knew nothing about
Dutch, the raising of a bellow by a crowd of
palefaces about “poara,” which is not a Maori word,
and “Nua Rahema,” which is mangled Hollandese,
and passing the noise off as a Maori war-cry, is
merely taking an advantage of credulous females.
Moreover, the old-time fighting Maori didn’t have
a war-cry among his munitions when he went forth
to the scrap. He was essentially a silent fighter,
his favorite method being to fall unexpectedly on
Hongi out of a tree and take that individual’s
brains away for lunch without remark. Even the
idea. that Henare started a disturbance with a
tangi is a superstition. The tangi had a lot of
conversation in it, but just as that astounding per-
formance is impossible of presentation in a public
place except in bowdlerised form, the incidental
remarks could no more be printed in a daily paper
. a f hnkum specimen of Maori carving be
exhibited in a cathedral. Everything connected
with this blessed “war-cry” raised in Sydney by
Scott.isn and Irish Maorilanders is sheer guff. Apart
from considerations about the gate and anxiety to
give the gaping multitude a thrill, there is no
more reason for associating football with noisy
observations in a bogus language than in commenc-
ing a cricket match with raucous asseverations con-
cerning St. George and Merrie England.
(Continued on page 38.)


EXPfI AISIOAI
NOW ON
To purchase now is wise, because reserved stocks are slowly but surel)
being depleted. Already we are out of many songs. Our musical
instrument department is also being considerably reduced, but there are
still plenty of real bargains left for those who are awake to the oppor-
tunity. Every piece of music we have in stock has been reduced per
cent., and the reductions extend to all musical instruments other than
pianos which we have in stock.
If it were not for the fact that we are permanently relinquishing this
section of our business in order to concentrate on the production of pianos
only, such a huge reduction would be impossible.
If you cannot call to make a selection, order by post.
We have a special staff to handle orders by mail.
DISGOUN PER CENT.
SHowro
omns: 355 Geor6
Sydney. °
fecxle
6-» C 9 LT9
Factory: 41-47 Trafalgar St.
Annaadale.
Maple*. Launceston ' SOU*TH'*Au r STRAILIA , * <, L?ir' l F Uf "' in M*N>°u'"e euburb*. TASMANIA - Williams R w e
rued.,, w ftiSrcflftsi.
GO


A. Saunders’ Returned
Soldier’s Presentation
Medal, 9ct. Gold, 25/-
.r
5K9
38SS
■ : :
■
A. Saundera’ Hunting Lever, extra-quality
movement, £2/10/-. Solid Silver, £3,
£3/10/-, £4/10/-, £5, £6, £7/10/-
Gold-fllled Elgin or Waltham, 10-year case,
£3/5/-; 20-year, £4/10/-; 25-year,
£5/5/-. Extra jewelled, £6/6/-,
£7/10/-. Solid Gold, £lO. Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Albert, £3/15/-
Heavier, £4/5/-, £4/10/-, £5, £5/10/-,
£6/10/-. 15ct. Gold. £6/10/-. £7/10/-,
£B/10/-, £lO, £l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Aquamarine Bar Brooch, 15ct. GoH,
£2.
A. Saunders’ pure
Diamond Boat-
shape Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £5. Larger
Diamonds.
£7/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure
Diamond Cluster
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£B/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9et. Gold Bar Brooch, set
Pearls, 20/-
i
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold,
£B/10/-
A. Saunders’
Lady’s 9et. Gold
Signet Ring,
12/6. loet., 20/-
Gent.’s size, 9ct.,
20/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct.
Gold Ring, set
Ruby, 25/-
loet. Gold, £2.
A. Saunders’ 9et. Necklet, set
Pearl and Amethyst or Rubies,
£2.
A. Saunders’ Lady's Solid Gold Patent Expanding
Wristlet Watch, full-jewelled lever movement, com-
pensation balance, £7/10/-. Others, £4,
£4/10/-, £5/10/-, £O/10/-, £B/10/-,
£lO, £l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold plain half-round Bracelet,
strong snap and safety chain, £2/10/-. Narrower,
25/-, 30/-, 40/-. Wider, £3, £3/10/-,
£4/10/-, £5. Isst., £3, £3/10/-, £4/10/-,
£5/10/-, £6/10/-, £7/10/-, £B/10/-
A. Saunders’ Set. Oold Pearl and Red Stone
Bar Brooch, 12/6.
A. Saunders’ pure
Diamond Crossover
Ring 1 , 18 ;:t. Gold,
£5/10/-
Diamonds and
Rubies or Sap-
phires, £3/10/-
A. Saunders' pure
Diamond Boat-
shape, King, lSet.
Gold, £5/10/-
Diamonds and
Kubies or Sap-
phires, £3/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure Diamond Bar Brooch,
15ct. Gold, £2/5/.
A. Saunders’ Re-
turned Soldier’s Pre-
sentation Medal, 9ct.
Gold, 20/-
A. Saunders’ gure
Diamond Ring,
18et. Gold,
£5/10/-
A. Saunders’
Gent.’s 9ct. Gold
Signet Ring, 20/-
Lady’s size, 9ct.,
12/6.
A.SIUNDZR9
QEOBGS 32 SYDNEY
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s high-grade Gun-
metal or Nickel Lever, 25/-, 307-
Extra jewelled, 40/-, 50/-.
Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’
Amethyst-set Ring,
9ct. Gold, 20/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Curb Albert, £4/10/-
Lighter, £3/15/-, £3/10/-, £3, Heavier,
£5, £5/10/-, £6/10/-, £7/10/-. Isct.
Gob’. £7/10/-. Lighter, £6/10/-,
£5/10/-. Heavier, £B/10/-, £lO,
£l2/10/-, £l5.
A. Saunders’ Oct. Gold
Links, daintily engraved,
20/-. 15ct. Gold, 35/-
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller, 805=815 George Street (Opp. Railway Station), Sydney.
Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Links, 20/-
Ileavier, 25/-, 30/-
15ct., 40/-, 50/-
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
SVb Supply—
J
ARRAH and Tasmanian Hard*
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68} PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the worH.
GIBSON’S
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide.
High-class Residential Hotel.
Tariff: 15/- per day inclusive.
8/= per day Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands ot cases
Of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A, MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/3 per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
JL
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
No matter what your respiratory organs may
be suffering from—whether Asthma, Hay
Fever, Rose Cold, or ordinary Cough— you
will find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled-
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout A ustralasia.
BOOKS! BOOKS! BOOKS! FOR EVERYBODY!
The Book of Nature
A full and explicit explanation
OF all that can or ought to be
KNOWN BY
MAN and WOMAN,
INTENDED ESPECIALLY FOR
THE MARRIED, OR THOSE IN-
TENDING TO MARRY.
By L. M. BYRN, M.D.
A PRACTICAL COMPLETE
FAMILY DOCTOR.
No such Complete Panorama of the Mysteries
of Human Reproduction has ever before been
given to the world.
DR. BYRN'S ILLUSTRATED EDITION
(1917 ISSUE) IS THE ONLY GENUINE
BOOK. ASK FOR IT, AND TAKE NO
OTHER. PRICE:
TWO SHILLINGS & SIXPENCE.
POST FREE.
Live and Learn, 2/-. Hcr\v to Get Rich,
1/6 posted. Dr. Lamartine’s Silent Friend,
1/6. Ned Donnelly’s Art on? Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, 1/6. How to
Dance, 1/6 posted. How to Wrestle, 1/6.
Moll Flanders (a rare book bv Defoe), 1/3
posted. Thurston’s Card Tricks, 1/3. All
Zola's, including Nana, 2/6 each posted.
Educating the Horse, lj/3. Ventriloquism
Made Easy, 1/3. Up-to-date Comic Reciter,
1/6 posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/3. Bell’s Stai.-dard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 6/6 posted. Biddle of the Uni-
verse, 1/3, and all the Bational Press Reprints
(send for list). Tea Odp Fortune Telling, 1/3. -
How to Make Your Will, 1/3. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 2/3. The Australian Fruit
Gardener, 1/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/6. Par-
lor Tricks and Games, 1/6. Fortune-Telling
by Cards, 1/9. Life (a book for Men and Women
of To-day), 2 /■'-. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales,
1/9. Tricks & Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/6.
Beauty's Secrets, 1/6 post free. Night of Temp-
tation, 2/-. How to Make Love, 1/3 post free.
Fowler’s Science of Life, 12/6. Australian
Miners' Guide (simple tests for minerals), 4/-.
Mahomet's Fortune-Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price 1/-, posted 1/3.
How to Become Quick at Figures, 1/3. Will
Power (Personal Magnetism), posted 1/-. San-
dow's Book of Strength posted, 4/-. Car-
lisle’s Freemasonry, 6/3 posted. Daughters
of Ismael. 2/6. History of the Rod Flagella-
tions and the Flagellants (scarce), 15/-.
Practical Gas and Oil Engine Handbook, 5/6.
Motor Mechanics, 3/9. Motor Manual
(latest), 3/6. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 1/-
and 2/3. God and My Neighbor, 9d. How
to Read Faces, 2/-. Adventures of a Sydney
Barmaid, 1/-. Colonial Horse Doctor, 2/-.
French Polishing and Staining, 2/3. Photog-
raphy Self-taught, 1/6. How to Make
Sweets, Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New TnicKS
with Coins, 1/3 posted. House Painting and
Papering, 2/3. Prof. Fowler's Human Science,
12/6. Australian Pastrycooks’ Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/6 posted. Gamblers' Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/6. How to Read Faces
and Heads, 2/-. Soldering, Brazing, etc.,
2/3 posted. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/9. That Rascal Gustave, 1/- ; 1/3 posted.
Camille, 1/6 posted. Piano Tuning and Repair-
ikg, 2/3. Modern Etiquette, 1/3. Hoyle’s
Gaud Games (Rules for all Games), 1/6. How
to Mesmerise, 2/-. Man from Snowy River,
4/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/3 posted. Parlor
Magic, 1/3 posted. The White Slave Traffic,
1/3. Every Man His Own Carpenter, 1/6.
Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator,
1/1. Secret History of the Court of Eng-
land, 2/-. Letter-Writer Up-to-date, 1/6
posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, 1/6 posted. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-; 1/2
posted. Electricity Made Simple (new), 6/'-.
The Confectioner’s Handbook, 1/6. Sexual
Knowledge for Everybody (with plates), 6/6
posted. How to Shine in Society, 1/6.
Cabinetmakers’ Handybook, 2/-. Complete
Bookkeeping, 2/6. Life of Deeming, illus-
trated, 1/1. How McDougall Topped the
Score, and Other Verses, 1/3. French
Self Taught, 1/3. Wannan’s Engine-
driver’s Guide, 6/- posted. Decameron of Boc-
caccio, 4/6 each, posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 2/- posted. Women’s Secrets, 1/-
posted. Gay Life in Melbourne, 1/- posted.
Secb" s of Beauty, Health and Long Life
(50,000 sold), 2/- posted. A Bed of Roses, 4/6.
All These Prices Post Paid.
Established 30 Years.
DON’T BE FOOLED
INTO PA YING MORE.
New Tricks with Cards, 1/6. Sappho, genu-
ine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 posted. Dr.
Milford's Midwife's Handbook, 92 practical
Send stamp for my
BIG ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
illustrations, SAristotle, 5/-. Adam Lind-
say Gordon's Poems, 1/9. Practical 1 arm-
istry, 2/-. Guide to Auctioneering, 3/b.
Lovers' Letter-writer, 1/6. All about Incu-
bators, 2/3. Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed,
Key to All Degrees, New Edition, 1/9 posted.
Vest-pocket Dictionary, 1/6 posted. Tokology,
10/6 posted. Ingersoll's Works, 1/3, 2/-. llow
to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 2/- posted.
Chevasse's Advice to a Wife, 3/9 posted. Bread
and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-boilers Assist-
ant, 2/-. The Wife’s Handbook, 1/3 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, 1/- lOO mew
Recitations and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness
and its Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster’s Large
Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1000 ulus.,
leather bound, my price, 20s. post paid, ("by
pay 3 and 4 guineas?). Bootmaking and Repair-
ing, 2/3. Dynamos and Electric Motors. 2/3.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete
Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 12/6 posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, 1/3 posted.
Henry Lawson's Humorous Verses. 1/3. The
Age op Reason, by Paine, 1/3 posted. Rasputin,
the Monk of Evil 2/9. One Day, 1/3 posted. The
Wizard's Manual, 1/3. Speeches from the
Dock, 2/-. Life’s Shop Window, 2/-. Thp.ee
Weeks, 2./- posted. TkE Escaped Nun, 2/-. Six
Women (by Victoria Cross), 2/-. The Black
Prophet, 5/3. Tom Jones (Fielding), 3/-. Aus-
tralian Miners and Prospectors' Guide, 2/-.
Adventures of John Johns, 2/6.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, the big book store, 67 g 69 Market Street, Sydney wild.
itr- BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH


Amusement*.
Hurry KiekiirUi
Governing Director
Tit oil I'hentres Ltd.
... iiugh d. mcintosh.
V l> N K V
-p IV<) L I T HEAT It IS.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Matinee Wednesday, 2.30.
THE BETTER ’OLE.
Captain Bairnsfather’s World-famous Comedy.
Plan at Nicholson’s and the Tivoli.
-yiVOLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH D. McINTOSH PRESENTS
THE FASCINATING MUSICAL PLAY,
THE OFFICERS’ MESS.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- & 1/-, plus tax,
Clt IT E It I O N T II EA T It E. SVI'N EY.
Direction .1. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.
The Leading American Comedy Star, M. B.
FIGMAN, together with LOLITA ROBERTSON
in
NOTHING BUT THE TRUTH.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Day Sales at Callose’s.
LI E It SI A .1 E S T V ’ S, S Y I) N E Y.
* * Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday.
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S TREMENDOUS
PANTOMIME EXTRAVAGANZA,
GOODY TWO SHOES.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Day Sales at White Rose.
THEATRE ROY A L, S Y D N E Y.
1 Lessees J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
ALLAN WILKIE REPERTORY SEASON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF
THE SCHOOL FOR SCANDAL.
SATURD \Y NEXT, JUNE 21.
TRILBY.
Plan at Paling’s. Popular Prices.
PAE A C E THEATRE, SYI)N E Y.
LAST EIGHT NIGHTS.
J. & N. TAIT, BAILEY & GRANT’S
SECOND ANNUAL PANTOMIME EXTRAVAGANZA,
JACK AND JILL.
THE PANTOMIME WITH THE PUNCH.
Box Plans at Nicholson’s.
\At IRTHS’ CIRCUS
And Great Water Pantomime.
NEW HIPPODROME, HAYMARKET.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY & SATURDAY - AT 2.30.
A COMPLETE NEW CIRCUS IN ALL ITS
GLORIOUS SPLENDOR & OPULENT VASTNESS.
Prices: 5/-, 4/-, 3/- and 2/-, plus tax.
Children under 10, half-price.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
y NION PICTURE TIIE A T RES
THE PICK OF THE WORLD’S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYCEUM.
STRAND. GLOBE, LYRIC. EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC, GRAND, KING’S CROSS,
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
gYD N E Y GLACIARIU M.
TRIUMPHANT REVIVAL OF ICE-
SKATING.
Three sessions daily: 10 —12, 3—5, 8 —10.30.
Special Children’s sessions, Saturday Mornings.
Admission: 2/- plus tax. Skates, 6d. extra.
DUNBAR POOLE, Manager.
LJEK MAJESTY’S THEATRE, M KLHOU RT< IC
* 1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. PRESENT THE
AVIATION MUSICAL PLAY.
GOING UP.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
THEATRE UO Y A 1., MKI.ItOII UN It.
* Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present Everjdjody’s
Favorite,
MURIEL STARR, in
THE SILENT WITNESS.
Plan at Allan's. Prices as usual.
ING’S THEATRE. MEhIIOPKNE.
Lessees: BAILEY GRANT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
•I. & N. TAIT Revive the Brilliant Mystery Play,
DE LUXE ANNIE.
Prices: 10/-, 7/6, 5/-. 3/-, 2/- Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Proprietors—BEN and JOHN FULLER.
LAST NIGHTS OF
DENIS KEHOE’S IRISH PLAYERS in
MOTHER MACHREE.
OPENING ADELAIDE TIVOLI, JUNE 2S.
Popular Prices. Plan at Pianola.
HOYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes. Bridge).
THIS WEEK'S FEATURES:
CARUSO in MY COUSIN,
ENID BENNETT in
WHEN DO WE EAT?
Prices as usual.
|y|AJESTIC THEATRE. MELBOURNE
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
CONSTANCE TALMADGE in
ROMANCE AND ARABELLA.
Plan at Allan's.
THEATRE, MELBOURNE’
PRESENTING THE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME
Continuous Sessions, 11 a.rp. to 11 p m
Prices: 3d. and 6d.
' Amusements.
QIACIAHIDJI,
M E L II O U K N E.
ICE-SKATING
SEASON NOW OPEN.
DI GILIO’S BAND.
MELBOURNE TOWN HALL,
SATURDAY EVENING, JUNE 21.
MELBOURNE SYMPHONY
ORCHESTRA.
CONDUCTOR, ALBERTO ZELMAN.
MAGNIFICENT PROGRAMME.
Vocal Soli, Mrs. ALBERTO ZELMAN.
Pianoforte Soloist, Miss ALICE SLATER,
Mus. Bac.
3/3 (Reserved Seats), 2/2 and 1/1. Box Plan at Allan's,
fyg ELBA T HEATRE. M KI.ISOL KN 14.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITA GRAPH, PATHE,
WORLD, FOX and SELZNICK.
Government Notice.
Accounts Due by the Government of the
Commonwealth.
ALL persons who have claims against the
Government of the Commonwealth
are requested to apply to the Department
which incurred the liability, on or before
Friday, 27th June, so as to avoid inconveni-
ence to themselves and the Department.
No accounts will be paid on Monday, the
30th of June, after 1 p.m.
W. A. WATT,
Treasurer of the Commonwealth.
Wanted.
WANTED —First-class Wine Steward.
Best Credentials. If possible, Service
experience. Apply in person to Mess Secre-
tary, Wardroom Officers’ Mess, H.M.S. New
Zealand.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the CentOnts,
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
tfsed since 15H6. CURE 3 Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREtN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England
Insist on “ Singleton’s ’’—refuse all substitutes.
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
;s&
m
m
TRADE.
MARK
50079
J^ade
WE desire to thank our many friends
for the patience and consideration
shown us during the War.
We placed our entire services at the disposal of
BRITISH and ALLIED GOVERNMENTS
and supplied
8,479 MILES OF CLOTH.
We are now in a position to resume our civilian
1 rade, and desire to inform our Customers that
FOX’S
Guaranteed Serges
ALL PURE WOOL FAST DYE
Are once more available
FOX BROTHERS & CO., Ltd.
Wellington, Somerset, England. No. 1
FOR SALE.
2 Shay Geared 8 Rod Locomotives
WMm
i
m
me
mm
m
mmwfi
h. t
h
list
i
BSV:?
m* ,s
m irtwwwi
■ \ J
■ li « . , ' ,i»„ * * *l, »• >, <\'
Has
•:■■
■ y
m<mP
gl-^refoiS
CLASS “IV SHAV LOCOMOTIVE.
The locomotive shown in cut is equipped with Radley-Hunter Diamond Stack, suitable for burning wood
fuel in dry districts.
Maker: Lima Co., U.S.A. Date of manufacture, 1912. Weight working order, 32 tons.
Working pressure, 1601 b. Capacity, 6% grades, 60 tons (exclusive of engine and
tender). Sharpest curve advised, 75ft.; practicable, 70ft. Gauge, 36in. Sizes Firebox,
4ft. 6in.; width, 3ft. o|in.: height, 3ft. 7in. Width Engine Frame over all, 7ft. lOin.
Length Boiler Smoke-box combined, lift. 1 Oin. Smoke-box, lft. lOin. Ninety 9ft. x
2in. tubes in each boiler. Three Bin. Cylinders. Stroke, 12in. Length over all, 33ft.
Fuel capacity, Coal 1| tons. Wood 3 tons. Fire Box, Steel.
Capacity for water, about 1000 gallons.
Cost, £2315 each. Selling price, £l6OO each f.o.w. •Sydney’.
Also Large Quantity of Mining Machinery of All Descriptions.
Apply Abercrombie Copper Mines Limited, 94 Pitt Street, Sydney.


WHY NOT CONSULT
(STATE GUARANTEE), WHO ACTS AS
EXECUTOR, TRUSTER, ADMINISTRATOR, ATTORNEY and AGENT
„ , , Expert, Efflc«e nt and Economical Management. «ENT.
or call for full particulars, CUMVULLA CHAMBERS, 67 CASTLEREAGH STREET SYDNEY
T W. GARRETT, Public Trustee. '
r
&
boord&son
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
I
fit
DT
Swift Jt Company JLtd.. Australasian Agent*. '6 so Clarence ?
Sydney
Insure with AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
BRANCHES:
Head Office* Corner P tt
~ q. „ & King* Streets, SYDNEY
oO Queen Street. Melbourne. 113 Eagle street. Brisbane.
FIRE. & ACCIDENT INSURANCES EFFECTED.
PROMPT SETTLEMENTS. EQUITABLE DEALING
SYDNEY H. CARY. Chairman. G. _ HOWARD POPE. General ilanaoer.
A®
THE “WARRIGAL" RUG.
All Pure Wool—and Australian!
For driving, motoring or travelling—for every occasion when
a sort, warm, full-size rug is needed, the “Warrigal” Rue
provides the necessary warmth without weight That is be*
cause it is a real wool rug, made i n Australia from Aus-
tralian wool “Warrigal” Rugi, like all “Warrigal” Wool-
goods, are obtainable only from Peapes’.
Neat Reversible Check Rugs, in Dark and Light Grev Red
and Brown mixtures, full size, fringed ends . 30/-
Heavier weight, „ _ ,
45/-
Peayes’ Pay Postage.
Every rug bears the registered “Warrigal” Trade-mark.
PFAPES & CO. LTD.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309-311 QEOKQE STREET, SYDNEY.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Goody Two Shoes”
Criterion “Nothing but the Truth”
", . “Trilbv”
Palace “jack and Jill”
“The Better Ole”
;;®' T ® „ Moving Pictures
Lmon Theatres Moving Pictures
Haymarket Hippodrome Wirths’ Circus
GiiACiAJtiUM Ice Skating
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Going Up”
R°yf/ J “The Silent Witness”
~ lsa s “De Luxe Annie”
i ivoli “The Officers Mess”
Princess s “Mother Machree”
Hoyt s De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
l nA Moving Pictures
BRITANNIA Moving Pictures
Glaciar.um Ice Skating
Town Hall (21st) Melb. Symphony Orchestra
“The School for Scandal,” well mounted
and costumed from the J.C.W. resources, is
Allan Wilkie’s bait for this week at Sydney
Royal. The hardworking co. deserves a
cheer for the way it backs up the star. In-
deed, several supporting mimes do better
than Wilkie, who wrestles with the job of
Sir Peter Teazle and cackles too much over
it. Frediswyde Hunter-Watts rustles
splendidly in brocaded silk as Lady Teazle;
but, as usual, she fails to score a pass in
acting. Still, they are a deserving pair,
doing a quick-lunch season, and the critic
must keep on allowing a liberal discount for
speed. . The best work stands to the credit
of 11. H. Wallace and Mabel Russell (Mrs.
Candour). Alma Rock-Phillips is a dainty
Maria, 11. W. Varna always looks venomous
as Snake, and Vivian Edwards just about
gets through as Charles Surface. In the
supper scene tenor Philip Wilson sweetly
flutes the old “Here’s to the Maiden” and
momentarily carries you back towards the
days when every young man had to be his
own phonograph and his friends were ex-
pected to drink deep and join in the chorus.
“Trilby” begins on Saturday at the matinee.
•I* v $ *
The high expectations regarding the new
Victorian tenor, Edgar Britnell, were hardly
realised at Melbourne Auditorium last
Thursday. _ After Edgar’s heavy journey
through Allitsen’s “Song of Thanksgiving,”
pianist Harold Elvins explained that the
Voice had a cold, though this would hardly
account for the crude phrasing and other
signs of immaturity in “Lucevan Le Stefle”
from Puccini’s “Tosca.” This aria requires
both singing and soul, and Edgar hasn’t
much of either to spare. Florence Fawaz’s
well-trained and full-bodied soprano compen-
sated for the failure of the principal man,
and Cacialli’s baritone was unexpectedly lus-
cious in two arias from “Ernani” and “Don
Giovanni.” Harold Elvins also deserves a
posy for his fine playing of Liszt’s arrange-
ment of The Spininng Chorus in “The Fly-
ing Dutchman” and Chopin’s delightful waltz
in E Minor.
❖ ❖
Of the Australian Arts Club’s first show:
Five years ago some members of the two Art
Societies which have been exhibiting and quarrelling
in Sydney for years past formed a club for
PAINTER ELLIOT
GRUNER.
the study of Art —a
purpose worthy of con-
sideration by all those
who label themselves
artists. The club quietly
developed into an inter-
state exhibiting so-
ciety, and its first Syd-
ney show was opened
on Saturday at the
Education Building'
with a collection of
high average merit.
No picture in it towers
above the rest in size
or quality—there sho Id
be a by-law in all art
societies against gigan-
tic canvases—but at
least half a dozen
panels comprise work
by men who have done
well and are now doing
better. Most of the
pictures are land-
scapes; the small
amount of figure-paint-
ing is due, no doubt,
to the greater selling
value of “scenery.”
There is a strong black-
and-white section, even
though the pre-eminent
“N.L.” is inadequately
represented. The water-
colors are particularly
good.
* * *
Lionel Lindsay’s
panel strikes one first
on entering the room ;
it is nearest the door and gayest in color.
This lot is noticeably ahead of his previous
exhibits in quality. There are gaudy peacocks for
taose as likes such poultry, but the reserved color
and line draughtsmanship of “The Bishop s Door,”
“Richmond Bridge,” “A Penny, Noble Seiior,” and
At the f ord ’ will lift the artist s reputation. Nor-
man Lindsay’s “Sea and Sun” and “In the Garden”
have a new note of ethereal lightness, the first-
named being a superb handling of exceedingly thin
washes of pale colors in which some pale but healthy
nudes disport themselves. “The Grey Drape” and
1 aisley Shawls” are harmonious arrangements of
bare girl, some clothes and mottled backgrounds
as good as any of his earlier studies in a similar
style. Percy Lindsay has two fine twilight scenes,
“Satyr and Nymph” and “The Urn.” Albert Col-
lins has moved up as a painter in oils, “New Life”
and Early Morning” being freer and more attrac-
tive than usual; “Bush Fires” and “The Pool ’ are
pleasant water-colors. Penleigh Boyd s “River ’ is
notable for its treatment of the light-filled shadow,
and all his work is soundly decorative. Hans
Heysen sends some of his stock line of gum-trees
and a few others that break fresh ground—especially
“Harrowing.” W. B. Mclnnes, with one good por-
trait and a number of landscapes, is seen to better
advantage in Sydney than before and proves himself
a deft craftsman who needs to break away, as
Heysen has done, from a composition that is becom-
ing stereotyped. John Bancks shows steady improve-
ment : David Barker’s etchings of building? in Jerusalem
are good and herald a new etcher of distinction;
B. J. Waterhouse’s delicate and beautiful pencil
drawings made in France and Belgium are a fresh
note; Syd. Smith adds to his careful etchings a
panel of water-colors, quiet in tone and simple in
subject matter. Elliot Gruner’s “Tremulous Morn”
is a thing of beauty, and his other paintings are up
to his standard. Percy Leason’s sincere figure and
landscape work is varied in attractiveness, the
hard brilliance of “Late Afternoon” being something
new and strange that jars at first sight. Harry
Julius appears for the first time as a decorative
water-colorist with a comic motif, and ought to be
encouraged as a relief. Alek Sass is a slick impres-
sionist in color and Herbert Gallop a promising be-
ginner. The rest show work as good as alf but
their best. J. R. Jackson's panel is an agreeable
mixture of girl and landscape; M. J. MacNally is as
M. J. McNALLY, Victorian water-
colorist.
poetical as usual; Will Ashton, a bright impression-
ist, gives solid buildings and picturesque streets;
, .7’ F ' Mann ’ Norman Carter and Llovd Rees
exhibit attractive work, Carter being also represented
by sketches for mural decorations and stained-glass
windows. ®
** * *
And an art show in Melbourne:—
Sixty-four canvases by Bernard Hall at Melbourne
Athenaeum reveal the same old bloodless academician
prostrate before his palate of apricot and yellow,
the two beloved colors, reinforced by lavender pink
and green, execute shrill dissonances behind frigid
nudes Bernard rarely allows his imagination to
lure him from this purelv-pictorial objective. One
realises that his undressed divinities are no more to
him than drawing lessons. Their ravishing exterior
lines and glistening surfaces are set down with all
u- ~^ ac * lc£ * indifference of the cartographer. Take
his S!eep.” Decoratively the whole conception is
striking, but the naked sleeper and the two attendants
seem like afterthoughts in the composition. As color-
problems they have never excited the artist like the
’’ff brass P latc in the centre, which seems to have
obtained a first mortgage on his soul. In “The
Suicide,” remarkable for technical dexterities, one
gets the same fantastic concentration on the glittering
yellow stuff which tumbles from the couch on which
the nude corpse is lying, and, posed with a preten-
tious negligence, throws back the remorseless light
from above. Bernard is theatrical when he has any-
thing to say; witness the alleged design for a poster
w ere a couple of well-filled stockings, fashionably
shod, waggle desperately in the atmosphere advrrtis-
mg for an owner. As the exponent of artistic sym-
bo ism in Twilight” and “Dawn,” Hall is the vesti-
bule to the Royal Academy. His heads are usually
arresting, as in No. 11, but his landscapes accentuate
the suspicion that his art is the expression of a
vague and limited personality. His vision is said to
be Greek, but in the symbolistic and poster phases
aforesaid the whole of him is Greek to the average
man.
“Tlie Little Girl God Forgot” is melo-
drama of the homely sort, which proves
that right is might and taai the hero always
strikes gold in far countries. Lily Molloy.
as Nan, the Little Girl, would be more
effective if she showed more restraint; also
if she didn't say “bug-house.” Australia is
tired of trying to follow foreign languages
in theatres kept up by Australian money.
Helen Fergus and Frank Neil, as the Bran-
nigan mother and son, are the Joys of the
evening; Miss Fergus’s Mary Ellen is an
excellent bit of low comedy. Villain Jeffer-
son Tait, lover Maurice Tuohy, ’tec. Har-
rington Reynolds, John Galway, Vera
Remee and others help to keep the plot
a-boiling at Sydney Opera House.
* * <s *
The “Last Night” sign is up at Sydney
Palace. “ J a c k
arid Jill will
slide down the hill
for good on June
27, and Dame
Barry Lupino will
pack up the little
black bonnet that,
has yawning fits
and sits up on the
back of his head
like an inquisitive
rabbit. II a r r y
Lauder is to open
at this house on
Saturday, June
28.
* * *
Anyone who is
tired of cussing
and discussing ’flu
can still drop into
“The Better ’Ole,”
at Sydney Tivoli,
and be sprayed
with e a u-d e-
Cologne. You get
the utmost value
out of the scent-
bath by taking
delivery in the
eye.
At Sydney
Maj e s t y’s the
“Goody Two
Shoe s” panto-
marches on to
glory upheld by a
score of the
“The Officers' Mess,”
at Melbourne Tivoli.
Bert Clark as Tony.
plumpest kgs ever seen on any stage. Great
stress is la d on the elaborate patriotic
tableaux; but the Kirchner ballet stays
longest in the memory.
* * *
Not even the new wave of influenza has
been able to stop the success of “Nothing
but the Truth” at Sydney Cri.
Maybe it is confidence in the elaborate sys-
tem by wh.ca the Sidney Hippodrome is dis-
infected more than the excellence of the show
that keeps the house filled, despite the flu.
Anyway, whatever the cause, the fact remains.
It is rarely, too, that a circus changes, to any
material extent, its programme each week;
but th s has been done at the Hippodrome
since the YY jrth season started. One of the
current thrills is a lion-cage act by the
trainer Eugene—his first appearance.
& ❖ £
Fannie Hurst’s little heroine, Loo Gray, is
at Sydney Si rand and Crystal Palace this
week. Loo boasts that, given five dollars
and a paper pattern, she can look tailor-
made, and after seeing Alice Brady in the
part we believe it. This is in “Her Great
Chance. At the Lyceum Frank Keenan
snows how to become managing-editor of an
American paper: first track a band of crim-
inal gamblers, then fight a bully, next seat
yourself in the manager’s chair. “Todd of
™ e i. in ,\ es ” gentleman’s name. Doro-
thy Dalton and Doug Fairbanks are paying
the rent of Hoyt’s and the Haymarket.
<‘m? eS !-f re %l. last ni B' h ts of Muriel Starr in
Ihe oilent Witness” at Melbourne Royal,
but before she leaves Melbourne for
p?m ri Tr a o he Probably be “Bought and
i aid ror again.
** * *
A final revival of “De Luxe Annie” at
Sourne ® brngs back Emelie
olim, with John Fernside as her partner in
crime. Emelie demonstrates the same radi-
ance of voice and manner which produces a
towering pile of blackmail money, but John
isnt sophisticated and suave enough for his
particular part in the plot. Arthur Green-
ewny ’" now the elderly husband whose hand-
Jmg of the situation suggests the velvet paw
in the woollen glove. Charles Bertal has
been promoted to the depreciated wardrobe
or Cyrus Munro’s foreman, and shares with
(be audience his enjoyment of the job. Also
\ mtor Fitzherbert plays the butler with a
dignity suggesting that he has rubbed intel-
lects with the Very Best People. Barring a
couple of changes in the population of the
Pullman, the same old artists resume the
other prominent positions in the tale.
The matinee and the evenings are the
9th week of “Going Up” at Melboui’ne
Majesty’s, and that clean musical comedy
will continue unless the local field-marshal
forbids it to keep on running in a populous
district. Considering
that military autho-
rity can and did stop
a member of the J. C.
W. Co. from going up
in an aeroplane off
the premises, one fears
that the ruler of the
heavens may, at any
moment, prohibit the
alleged goer-up from
making a supposititi-
ous flight on the pre-
mises. Latest infor-
mation is reassuring,
however, and the re-
ception given to
Alfred Frith, the
weird hero of the
hour, suggests that it
were folly to go up
before a crowded audi-
ence when he can stay
down with flying
colors.
*£ * *
“The Officers’ Mess,”
at Melbourne Tivoli,
is getting faster off
the mark than it did
in the first instance;
also - the chorus
charmers are improv-
ing in value with
practice. They are a
heartless crowd of in-
eursionists, the chorus
ladies. Having
accepted a lot of jewel-
lery from the mess-
making officers, and
“The Silent
Witness, ” at Mel-
bourne Royal.
Sidney Stirling as
the ambitious
lawyer.
seeing reason to believe that it was stolen,
thev secrete the goods within the privacy of
their silk stockings, and prepare to. escape
when the Assistant Provost-Marshal invades
the festivities. Afterwards they seem to
forget their shocking dishonesty, and turn
respectable by comparison with their former
selves. They show less consistency of
conduct than Claude Flemming, as the
A.P.M. His job is to always burst upon the
scene with an impressive swank, and roar
queries and interjections in the ears of his
victims. The whole British army hardly
contains swank enough to supply the needs
of Flemming. His manner is tremendous
and his appearance defies contradiction.
Kennedy Allen, on the other hand, is a
husky butler of an apologetic nature, whose
chief indiscretion is an attempt to take
Lottie Sargent’s temperature with a baro-
meter after she has gone to bed in a red
petticoat.
sjc
“Mother Maehree” is doing another lap at
Melbourne Princess’s ere Kehoe departs.
The story soars beyond politics into the
realm of romance, where the name of Ma
Maehree is more powerful than St. Pathriek
in its. hold on the bhoys of Clare. The
yarn is laid in Clare, which, according to
the man who painted the scenery, remains
in all seasons a suburb of Heaven.
** * *
Violinist Gregory Ivanoff, well known to
the variety stage in Melbourne, made his
d6but as a virtuoso at the Auditorium last
week. Glazounov’s violin concerto was his
opening item, and the surging fantasy took
hold of his bow arm and made him sway like
a sapling in a gale. On the evidence of
this performance and the Rachmaninoff,
Cui Bach-Ivreisler pieces which followed,
Ivanoff is a genuine musical curio. Occa-
sionally he produces a rarely beautiful tone:
sometimes he diffuses a definite personal
magic; but there are mysteries in his music
that be robs of all glamor by emulating the
Paganini of a Dago street-orchestra.
. “Eyes of Youth” showed remarkable stay-
ing-power at Adelaide Royal. It is a
strong play; but one would like to see the
heroine put the crystal on to her projected
life with the moneyless hero, which quite
possibly misdit be just as unhappy as the
careers she does peep into. It is interest-
ing to see Fitzllerbert, now in this co.,
carefully under-acting, doubtless in dread of
being accused of having brought the methods
of melodrama from his former work. The
incidental Repertory plays have given Adel-
"l d ® something to be grateful to Gregan
fu w°v or ' Eauder has now to open at
the Tivoli, Jack Waller with “Look Who’s
Here confirm to the Royal. This pushes
out of the Tivoli the Anderson Co., which
fimsbed wrth a week of White Slave drama,
Mabel Hardinge the heroine and Redgrave
in a character” part. He and Marie
Dalton have now gone to the Majestic, to
bll time PkyS the already good mixed


777777.
•JlUjji
/ , *
l ...
mn,
hm
///,
V'S
\W*
#
RED
Roo<Sy^>
SPOT 1
ALE
i
SSB
mm
flfat
SB
i.
BARGAINS BIGGER and
BETTER THAN EVER.
STARTS
TO-MORROW,
FRIDAY,
20th JUNE.
GETTING READY
FOR BIG
BUILDING
EXTENSION!
£20,000 Men’s and Boys’ Wear
to be Cleared Regardless of Cost.
This Red Spot event is going to make bargain history. Never before has
there been such a wholesale pruning of prices. We must make room for the-
builders, and, consequently, prices are down to vanishing point. A golden
opportunity to line your purse with silver savings. Every department
shimmers with unheard-of bargains.
GET IN EARLY FOR YOUR SHARE
OF THESE RED SPOT BARGAINS.
Look at these Ripping Reductions in our Tailoring Department.
70/- Suits-to-measure—N O W 64(9
T rousers-to-measure —18/9
841- Suits-to-measure—NOW 76(9
T rousers-to-measure—2l/9
95/- Suits-to-measure—NOW 85/9
Trousers-to-measure —24/ 9
110/- Suits-to-measure—NOW 99/9
Trousers-to-measure —28/9
Also a Special Lot of Hard-wearing Worsted Finish Trouserings.
Red Spot Price —lB/9 to Measure.
Join in this carnival of economy—you can't afford to miss it. Call and see
the goods, or write for big bunch of patterns.
WRITE FOR RED SPOT CATALOGUE.
Desk R.
MESSRS. MURDOCH IN PARK STREET LTD., SYDNEY.
Please forward patterns of Red Spot Suitings, at Suit to
measure, also Sale Catalogue , with tape and, self-measurement form.
Name
Address
S>]fb& UdbLJOJ i T .
suomno QfWdaiod L-l
m
m
IN PARK ST LIMITED SYDNEY
10-INCH
DOUBLE-SIDED
BRITISH-MADE
12= INCH
DOUBLE-SIDED
irom
3/-each
X.Z. from 3/6
from
5- each
from 5/8.
Some Splendid 12-inch Double-sided
COLUMBIA RECORDS
All at 51 - each.
133
{ J-onglng;—Romance (Menzi 1) Violin, Flute anti Piano Trio.
( Titl s Serenade (Titl) Flute and Alto Horn Duet.
263
f Parted (Tosti)
(,I Hear You Calling Me
Morgan Kingston, tenor.
Morgan Kingston, tenor.
388
[ r£?* e ** reen of the Yellow God—Dramatic Recital ... * Bransby Williams
{ The Caretaker Bransby Williams
486
( Prologue from “Pagliacci” (Leoncavallo)
I Even Bravest Heart., from “Faust” (Gounod)
Thorpe Bates, baritone.
Thorpe Bates, baritone.
SOI
I ( Eily Mavonrneen (Benedict) Miss Ruby Holder, lady tenor.
I Then You’ll Remember Me Miss Ruby Helder, lady tenor.
568
f Mon Coeur est pour toi (Love,, Here Is My Heart), Band of H.M. Gren. Guards
( Solace Valse (A. H. Cox) Band of H.M. Grenadier Guards
600
f De Cid—Priere (Massenet), in French.
; Mignon— Elle ne croyait pas (Thomas), .n French
Paul Dufault, tenor.
Paul Dufault, tenor.
640
f The French Army on the Marne (Balay) Garde Republicaine Band.
1 Be Cocqnet March (Bourgeois) Garde Republicaine Band.
644
(The Roses Have Made Me Remember Florence Smithson, soprano.
| Queen of Roses Florence Smithson, soprano.
631
f Over the Top and Good Duck Miss Ella Shields,
1 You're a Dangerous Girl Miss Ella Shields,
comedienne.
comedienne.
678
f Tally-Ho ....
t The Best Man
Little Ticb, comedian.
Little Tich, comedian.
690
( Dream Dance—Intermezzo
1 Some Sort of Somebody—Intermezzo
London Repertoire Orchestra.
London Repertoire Orchestra.
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR “COLUMBIA"
RECORDS—
SYDNEY, K.S.W.—Grafonola. Ltd., Dakin g House, Kawson Place.
MELBOURNE. VIC-, and TASMANIA.—Messrs. Hugo Wertlieim Fty..
Ltd., 173 William Street. Melbourne.
BRISBANE, Q. —King and King, Ltd., Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A. —Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street.
PERTH. W.A. —11. K. Firth, Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. —Arthur H. Nathan. Ltd., Customs Street.
WELLINGTON. N.Z.—Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.—Wehley Sons & Gofton, Ltd., 213 High Street.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.—Webley Sons & Gofton, Ltd.
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.
Reliable Clocks
Those desirous of selecting clocks which may be thoroughly
relied upon for accuracy and service will find great variety
to choose from in the Firm’s large stock of English, French
and Swiss makes, including clocks for every purpose and
carrying the firm’s highest guarantee.
8-day Folding Clock,
in Morocco Case, £6.
O-inch Brass Clock,
with Glass sides. Re-
liable Timekeeper,
£B/10/-
Gilt 8-day Clock, New
Design. In Square,
Round and Oval, £7.
Selections will be sent on approval to any address in the
Commonwealth.
SBlttt jSntmmonb & Co.
344-346 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE.


USE
and give your home a bright and cheerful interior. Require no
skill in application, are hygienic, artistic and very hard-wearing.
Ask your dealer, or send 1/1 in stamps for an Boz. trial tin, to
SUPER
FINE
TMJBMANS LIMITED
VARNISH MAKERS,
232 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
492 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
m
SW3
W
.. M
a,«oo«
m
33s
FREE
TRIAL
BOTTLE
Disorders
of Digestion.
Catarrhal, Fermentative, Ulcerative.
Angier’s Emulsion exercises soothing, lubricating,
antifermentative effects throughout the entire digestive
tract. That is why it is so valuable in affections of the
stomach and intestines. It soothes and cleanses the
mucous membrane, allays irritation, fermentation,
catarrh, ulceration. It restores tone to all the digestive
functions and it promotes normal healthy action of the
bowels. Prescribed by the medical profession for
twenty-four years, it has proved its value in many
obscure digestive and bowel disorders.
Send name and address, 4d. postage, and mention this paper.
ANGIER CHEMICAL CO., LTD., 233 Clarence St., Sydney, N.S.W.
POVERTY
POINT
MOET &
CHANDON
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
“H. 11.” : There is evidence that the J. C.
Williamson and Fuller firms are a bit more
than friendly enemies. Rigo opera, after
playing with Fuller, goes over to J.C.V\.
Latter had a percentage cut out of Fullers’
Gonsalez seasons and also took a cut out of
Allan Wilkie’s “Story of the Rosary” and
“Seven Days’ Leave” ventures the
same firm. Now Wilkie has gone from Fuller
to Williamson. The shifting, last year, of
a J.C.W. comedy show —producer and all —
into a Fuller theatre to stage “Fair and
Warmer” and “A Little Bit of Fluff” sup-
ports the evidence of mutual interests.
“Fax”: One rarely sees on one platform
two concert artists of repute so lacking in
ease of gait and deportmental style as Harry
Dearth and Leila Doubleday. Neither of
them has the least idea of walking on or
walking off. Leila just bustles to and fro
in a casual manner, as though she wanted
her turn to be quickly over and then felt
thankful for having got to the end _of it.
Dearth sways on with his hands in his
pockets—not knowing how else to carry
them, seemingly—and proceeds to spread
himself against the broadside of the grand
piano. He leans on it for support, like an
audaciously bashful man at a suburban social
gathering. If it is a good way of getting
the best effects in voice production, the
pose of Melba and all the other famous
artists is utterly wrong. It doesn’t strike
one as being the most comfortable attitude
for Dearth to adopt, for though his voice is
of fine quality and his enunciation excellent,
his face suggests that most of his singing
puts an excessive strain on his vocal chords.
“Pollio”: Ivy Shilling contemplates the
disuse of her excellent legs. She has dig-
“The School for
Scandal,” at Sydney
Royal.
Tal Ordell as Crabtree.
covered her hands,
and is inventing
not only dances
but dramas for
them; “band duets,
hand embraces,
hand conversations
that unfold in an
astonishing way
real stories of
sentiment and
romance.” Ivy be-
came confidential
with a U.S.A. girl-
reporter, and told
her how “I found
my hands could say
things I was think-
ing—that I could
talk to them and
with them.” (She’s
not the first girl
to use her hands
in that way.) This
confidence is illus-
trated by pictures
that look like Ivy
trying to make a
rabbit’s shadow on
the curtain with a
candle behind her.
The picture one misses is Ivy’s hand pulling
the U.S.A. damsel’s leg.
“Nbrbell” : “Emde-e” suggests(B. 12/6/T9)
that I had forgotten the super when putting
a case for the mummer. The super had
his chance. He started a fairly strong
union in Melbourne a few years back, but
because of his weakness for leaning on some-
one else his laudable effort fizzled out. This
was inevitable, anyhow, for the super is at
best a very casual worker. Man cannot
live by supering alone, so he gets off stage
at the first chance, and makes way for the
next temporary out-of-work. Also he is
hard to please. A good many supers were
needed in “A Royal Divorce,” for instance,
and their work was soon over ; but about a
dozen were required to act as Nap.’s guard
all night. J. C. Williamson allowed these
men extra pay. The others immediately
struck for the same rate, and J.C.W.
promptly reduced them all to the minimum
level again. I hear that the Sydney supers
are now trying to form a union. Well, good
luck!
“Orb”: “Glen Huntly” asks (B. 5/6/T9)
how many Silver Kings had appeared at
metropolitan theatres in Australia before
Allan Wilkie. He recalls several but omits
George Rignold, Harry Plimmer, Scot
Inglis and King Hedley. Also a present
member of the Allan Wilkie galaxy,
Augustus Neville, played the Silver King in
Brisbane for a season a couple of years ago.
“0.K.” : Lauder has reached a time when
rumor adds many years to his age. Com-
ing with the crowd from his last matinee in
Melbourne I heard an old lady remark that
the rugged little comedian had had a fine
voice. In renly to some expostulations the
ancient dame said : “Well, look at his age !
He must be 70!” Half an hour earlier he
OUT OF HIS LINE.
SHE: “I would gladly die to become a
musician!"
HE: “Eh? Not for me! I never cared for
the harp.”
had been shaking his funny little legs with
the activity of a man of, say, 45. As a
matter of fact, he is just under 49. But
because he has impaired the richness of his
melodious voice by persistent smoking, and
has been talked about for 20 years, there is
a class of ancient citizens who would claim
him for an elder. It is mostly the wrinkled
and grey-liaired who exaggerate the ages of
old-established stage identities. A quarter
of a century ago Nellie Stewart was com-
monly declared to be “sixty, if she’s a day,”
by clubmen in their early dotage.
“Bally Who”: Paul Freeman only did
for a week or so what Sacco-Homan did for
63 days in Melbourne. Sacco was a profes-
sional faster, and dinkum. If he wasn’t on
the square he fooled his many managers as
well as the public. Where he did fake was
after leaving “the tomb,” when he- would
pretend that he was ravenous. Halls were
engaged so that the multitude might gaze
on him eating his first meal. In Adelaide,
after a 42. days’ fast, Sacco came before the
drop-curtain and made a few remarks lead-
ing up to the awe-inspiring statement:
“Ladies and gentlemen, I will now take my
first food for six weeks.” At the cue the
curtain went up, revealing a table bearing
a liberal repast, but already seated at it
with loaded fork and crammed mouth was
the spruiker of the show who had got to
the provisions first. There was a yell from
the audience and a stage wait while the
starving man chased the little spruiker in
the wings. Sacco came back breathless but
good-tempered. “Ladies and gentlemen,” he
said, “be calm. I have; eaten him.”
Herbert Carroll, well-known Australian
entertainer, has found a congenial job in
Wilts (Eng.) looking after a military-camp
cinema. Carroll composed the Rip Van
Winkle song with which Peter Dawson made
a big hit, and writes that English publishers
have looked with favorable eye on his com-
positions. Recently he met a girl he had
known some years before in England, but
lost sight of till he went, wounded, into a
Bath hospital, where she w T as nursing. Re-
sult —same as usual.
“Smike”: Having filled Melbourne
King’s for the last night of Harry Lauder
and stacked 50 elderly admirers in a coi-ner
of the stage, the Tait brothers were deeply
grieved that they couldn’t provide a spare
shelf for some of the hundreds who were
turned away. The Taits are pioneers of
methods to get a little more money into the
cash-box. They poured population on to the
platform for Margaret Cooper, whereat that
haughty lady satirically suggested that they
might find room for at least half a dozen on
the roof of her grand piano. Also the
brethren were the first to add another row
to the d.c. and provoke other managements
to a fever of emulation. I have no doubt
that the man who invents a rubber theatre
will receive a medal from them. They
may even put his name on the door.
“1.L.C.” : With the passing of the lovable
Dr C. W. MacCarthy, of Sydney, another
link with the old-timers in music and art is
broken. Amongst his many friends of the
old days was the late Leon Caron, to whom
he frequently turned for advice over the
technicalities of his own compositions. Mac-
Carthy attended to Caron during_ the last
three weeks of the popular musician’s life,
and though the old maestro was failing
rapidly the pair spent hours together correct-
ing the amateur’s musical errors. MacCarthy
had predicted Caron’s death four years pre-
viously, and it took place within two weeks
of the time given. On one occasion the old
doctor admired a strand of wavy fair hair
that fell over the shoulder of Caron’s little
daughter Irma, and. telling the child to stand
perfectly still, he immediately worked in a
copy of the hair wave on the portrait bust
of liis daughter Maude, from which he sculp-
tured the fine copy now in Sydney Art Gal-
lery.
Dead in S’Africa, R. C. Pitcher, son of
the J. G. Pitcher who was manager of the
Town and Country Bank in Adelaide till it
closed, and an Anglican parson, afterwards.
The son was best known 20 years ago as
an elocutionist and a minor member of
Wilson Barrett’s co. He went to Johannes-
burg soon after, and worked high up in the
Education Department. Latterly he did
good service in the campaign in East Africa.
“Eardley Turner”: “Peter” is in grave
danger of becoming a joke. He now says
(B. 12/6/T9) be “knows” I had “the right”
to mount the dais in “The Pigeon,” but that
he objects to the manner in which I delivered
the lines of Timson when there. Well, I
can only advise him once more to read the
printed book of the play, which obviously he
has not done. “Peter's” excuse for attack-
ing me appears to be that, feeling annoyed
at the bouquets that have been thrown at me
by “certain sections of the press,” it is his
duty to endeavor to adjust the balance by
throwing mud. It’s a queer case. I don’t
remember to have met one like it before.
However, I will try to take my censor seri-
ously. It may interest “Peter” to be told
that I have no acquaintanceship with any
dramatic critic in Australia, that I know
only one by sight; that it is my rule not to
meet those who have to pass judgment on
my acting. A poor whimsy, but mine own.
I am, however, prepared to break the rule
in the case of “Peter” —he’s worth it. There-
fore I make him an offer. I do not care
to discuss the technical side of my business
in print, but if “Peter” will drop his
anonymity and me a line making an appoint-
ment,. we will have a little chat. Meantime
he will do me the favor to read and digest
“How He Lied to Her Husband,” “The
Pigeon” and “The Doctor’s Dilemma”—the
last with special reference to the “obvious
ass,” Sir Ralph Bloomfield Bonington. I
on my part will undertake in 10 minutes to
prove that “Peter’s” premises and conclu-
sions with regard to the Taits’ Repertory
company are both irrational ; that his judg-
ments are unsound; and that his criticism
of myself is, as I have already designated
it, spiteful.
“E.T.”: A par. (B. 5/6/T9) mentions
that Tom Walls—Australia’s first Peter
Docdy and undoubtedly the best—is scoring
the London ’alls with an imitation of G.
P. Huntley. It should be easy money for
Tom. for he has been practising that form
of smeerest flattery “for years and years
and years,” as Stigant sings. He gave us
a perfect reproduction of Huntley in “Miss
Hook of Holland.” Old Hook was Huntley’s
original part in London, and proved that
dudes are not. the only laughter-compelling
characters he is capable of revelling in.
“Ox”: Australian Superbuses have been
J. Knight (of the 15in. calves), Harry
Plimmer (cherubic), Cyril Iveightley
(skinny), and, at latest, Allan Wilkie
(burly). Knight’s earliest “Sign of the
Cross” casts included some good people in
minor roles. Iveightley was a soldier, and
his wife, Ethel Dane, appeared as one of the
gay girls about the palace who nothing
to say to the audience. Both Iveightley
and Dane have since starred abroad. Lat-
ter’s chance has just come in N’York, where
she is featured in a play in which her own
husband makes love to her.
“Ancient Prompter”: “Glen Huntly”
may add Harry Plimmer to his list of Silver
Kings (B. 5/6/TO). I have seen the local
“The School for
Scandal,” at Sydney
Royal.
Edward Landor as Sir
Oliver Surface.
man play it more
than once, and his
showing was in
every way as good
as that of at least
four of the im-
ported Denvers
mentioned, although
I believe he was
never given more
than an understudy
chance. But, after
all, Jaikes remains
the most popular
caaracter in the
old piece. Since
Phil Day I sup-
pose a dozen or
more mummers of
all shapes and sizes
have gone on for
the fat part and
never a one has
utterly failed. I
never saw Royce
or Elton, but
amongst latter-day
exponents my choice
hovers between
Atholwood and
Eardley Turner.
The latter, how-
ever, always
appeared a trifle too well-fed for the “starv-
ing” scene.
“It.S.V.P.” : The mechanical mishap which
caused Maud Williamson, as a blind lady
stepping off a Thames lock, to fall up into
the air instead of down into the water, re-
minds me of a Bilanderson racing episode
which happened at Melbourne King’s.
There was a field of four nags, none of which
did much credit to Bill as a judge of racers,
ambling along in competition for the Umpty-
doo Cup on a set of moving platforms. The
proceedings, observed through two thick-
nesses of smoked glass at a distance of two
furlongs, might possibly have given the im-
pression that some sort of contest was on ;
but any illusion of the sort -was destroyed
when one of the'hayracks fell off the works.
The other racers continued their amble, one
in front of the fallen gee and the other two
behind. Soon the winning-post moved into
view, the stage-assistants cheered (dispirit-
edly) from the wings and the curtain fell,
leaving the three racers still at full amble,
while the fourth accompanied them on their
career to nowhere with his feet waving in
the air.
“Nitram” : A recent P.P. par re a com-
pany of “Rollicking Girls” ending a poor
play with a dance reminds me that this was
once a favorite dodge to draw a bush crowd ;
but it is falling flat lately. One well-known
backblock entertainer recently advertiseu a
waltzing competition to pad out his thin
evening. Result, a poor house and an an-
nouncement from the stage that, as the man-
ager was playing two nights and only adver-
tised one waltzing competition, it would be
held next night. Result, a still poorer
house, then. Bill Wirewhiskers is getting
critical now and wants a real show for his
money.
“Ox” : Exit on June 12 Samuel Benjamin,
otherwise “Dockum,” peddler and newspaper-
vendor, and the best friend Sydney vaude-
ville comedians ever had. Stage mention
of “Dockum” meant a sure laugh, though it
is probable not one in a thousand vaudeville
patrons had ever seen him. Years ago he
won the “funniest face” film competition run
by Spencer, and after that his fame spread,
though it was to other physical peculiari-
ties—probably quite mythical—he owed his
reputation. “Doekum’s” departure leaves
Percy Brunton, “the peanut king,” without
a rival as a neg for the comic man’s wit.
“Yaud. Vet.”: Once, only once, I quitted
vaudeville for the legit. Things went very
badly on tour, and when we opened at Bung-
Bung we were hungry—and thirsty. At 7.5
p.in. we collected the first half-crown and
bought beer and cheese to start with. Wc
felt better then, and at 7.55 sent round to
the front to inquire how much more was in
the house. The reply came. “Still 2s. Gd., less
the half-crown you’ve had.” We had nothing
to refund with, and had to go clean through
five acts of blood-curdling melodrama.
What hurt most, however, was the remark
dropped by the audience as he left the hall:
“I’d have given ten bob to get out after the
first act, but I felt so sorry for the poor
devils that I didn’t like to be rude and quit.”
THE LEG SHOW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Estrella Fitzclarence, the pantomime pet,
Confided her sorrows to me ;
Her beautiful eyes and complexion were wet,
And tears fell in her afternoon tea.
Said she: “We’d a full-dress rehearsal to-day;
The new costumes would ravish the knots,
But the manager came in liis meddlesome w-ay
To make alterations and cuts.
“My place was in front of the Beauty Parade —
I’d have made a sensation, I know —
But. he's shoved me up stage, hidden quite in the
shade,
With the relics who fill the back row.
“It’s done out of suite, for that artful old freak
Pauline Pcntonville’s put in my place ;
She’s been giving- glad eyes to the boss all the week
In a way that’s a perfect disgrace.
“But still I’ve attracted the manager’s eye—
My symmetrical limbs the good reason —
For he glanced at my tights, and exclaimed with a
sigh,
‘ls asparagus always in season?’ ”
it.S.W.
NORMAN CAMPBELL.


■
mam.
• . v
WStim
MWwllfc
'';AA'''£lS
IMHHr
apaa
BBBH
■■■■
I iH
* Sto»?
Issbk
(■■i ■
1
lk‘-' .
Ml
ji jp?| s ■ 3
*«j
lill
*
■
Vfc ;
■hbmMb
Wf */,
r : ; ■
'V& v ' v V ' V 'C-- '
.13:
A
/"' *
h f. m
m m
J?3:®ip
sps
SSiiii»' !
f
n
; c>>P
■MI
|
msm
JPC.., t H
It.- '-; A*
w "'
lllgiMl
Ml
B»SE :
Ifllll
w/V !
111
p
A
%?
m
1
•i- - v 'f '%
A
111
■1
■*A!
V
JL/4
.»<’•'*' ... >Sfe,
HI
**4l
/ 1
M
- f
."X\':
m &
O
* «■
; :': v aR ; ;3.. /’JpflJ h •
§:■ --o; ■ >;.
>. _ J i,. f > '- ' * 'V- ;■ \ » i '«!
{- /'; -
■ i - , ’;£>& a 'lp' cJI *i
„/ ,-• «. Alim*’
«- .'.*<•<//■
H :. -
.. jwg
, ~ A
*1
m
A i
**’. d
«


The Atlantic has been safely crossed by two
British airmen, . and their achievement is all the
more wonderful because the cabled news is silent as
to whether they carried a supply of the greatest
stimulant known—King George IV. whisky—the
spirit for endurance.— Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
-ole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
[WHAT MAKES THE WHEELS GO ROUl^ft?
g&Tsectd®
LEWIS & MAKERS
CASTOR OIL, SALTS * DRUGS REPLACED
BY CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
Delicious fruit laxative cleanses
stomach, liver and bowels of
old and young folks.
A delicious remedy for constipation,
biliousness, sick headache, disordered stom-
ach, indigestion, coated tongue, sallowness—
take California Syrup of Figs—“Califig.”
For the cause of all this distress lies in a
torpid liver and sluggish bowels.
A tablespoonful to-night means all con-
stipation poison, waste matter, fermenting
food and bile gently moved out of your sys-
tem by morning without griping. Please
don t think of California Syrup of Figs—
“Califig”—as a physic. Don’t think you
are drugging yourself or your children. This
delicious fruit laxative cannot cause injury.
Even a delicate child can take it as safely
as a robust man. It is the most harmless,
effective stomach, liver and bowel regulator
and tonic ever devised.
Ask your chemist for a bottle of “Califig”
—California Syrup of Figs, which has full
directions for babies, children of all ages and
for grown-ups plainly printed on the bottle.
Cet the genuine, made by California Fig
Syrup Company. Refuse any other kind
CoU * :e - mpt ' ‘’Califig”—California Syrup
of r igs— —is sold by all chemists in two
•sizes, 1/6 and 2/4. [3
At City latt.’s Randwick meeting none of
the starters in the Hurdle were from imported stock,
there were only three of them. Thev all fell down.
Ihen Algous got up and won by a furlong. The
tact of a two-mile hurdle race for £2OO attracting
trii-ee crocks while a five-furlong scramble at the
pomes for a quarter the money allures a dozen or
two seents to have some bearing on the breeding
industry. .
The Denman Stakes usually goes to a good horse
competing in a high-class field. The rule held true
on Monday so far as Willie Ploma, the winner, was
concerned; but the field was only moderate. Bala-
rang is not the nag he once was; also, he has been
kept too long in training. Wolaroi’s brother, Por-
trait, a champion on suburban courses, isn't sound
enough in the wind for Randwick, and Bimeter has
been stale for a long time. The other three scarcely
mattered. Willie Ploma, well back at the turn,
hit the front at the distance and the rest was easy.
The Kenilworth gelding, Lothian, is a useful nag
in the right company. After running second to
Sandbee in a Trial Handicao at Rosehill on Jan
18 he appropriated the A.J.C. Trial Stakes a week
later, running the mile with Bst. 71b. in “381.”
On May 29 at Randwick he arrived fourth in Tatt’s
Welter with Bst. 81b., and on June 7 annexed the
A.J.O. Exeter Handicap with Bst. 111 b. On Monday,
carrying Bst. 131 b., he beat an even better field in
City Tatt. 8 Club Welter, included among the lot
being Li nacre’s sister Pamphlet, Promised Land,
Petalster, Amberdown. Selandra and Franco
Lothian is trained by F. Marsden with the Sydney
Cup winner lan Or.
The one-time pony sprinter Some Boy (Bst. 71b.),
who with advancing years has developed an appetite
for distance, had an easy win in City Tatt.’s Cup,
run over a mile and three furlongs'. He started
equal favorite with The Fortune Hunter (9st. 121 b.)
at fives, and never gave the ancient relic of J. C
Williamson's racing daj's a chance to get the lime-
light-, Of the nine starters six finished in front of
the Newcastle Cup winner Mount Alf, the Cumber-
land Stakes and Randwick Plate winner Ulva’g Isle,
and that once good mare Sobrina.
* * * *
Paddy Horan, one of the three biggest
punters on Sydney racecourses, passed over at the age
of 42 last week. He took more out of Israel than
most men during the last 20 years. Latterly he
owned Lingle. Had that perfect-looking animal
been a little less difficult to train or a pound or
two better when well, the lamentations of Moses
would have been fearful. Horan bought Lingle as
a yearling, and suspecting him to be worth “keep-
ing” did not seriously race him till he was a three-
year-old. Lingle then ran three thirds in succession,
a second and a dead heat before winning the Bruns-
wick Stakes at Flemington. In the following year
he was solidly backed for the Melbourne Oup that
was won by Sasanof —and finished fourth. Next year
he was backed even more confidently, and just missed
to Westcourt. Horan always reckoned that was
the worst piece of bad luck he ever sampled.
“Mujik”: Noses got a turn-up when Burra-
bog-i, a 100 to 3 chance, won the hurdles at Rand-
wick last week. But it doesn’t often happen. Year
in and year out, the public sorts out tw r o in tbe
hurdles and only misses by accident. Some of the
books have given it up in disgust. The dangers inci-
dental to laying against two-year-olds are nearly as
bad. One man discovered last year that his volume
was a loser on every race for jumpers and juveniles.
* * * *
The groans about the “immense loss”
suffered by breeders of racing stock through the ’flu
restrictions are largely bogus. The moan is that,
whereas the aforesaid breeders in N. S. Wales sold
612 yearlings in 1918 for £73,652, they this year
derived only £42,000 from 392 yearlings,‘being thus
left to stagger under a “loss” of £31,652. In 1918
the young ’uns averaged £143 a head. This year
they averaged £lO7, which shows a decline of £36.
And to the credit of the breeders put 278 nags not
sold, which they still have to dispose oi. Taking
them on the average for the year ( £107) they repre-
sent £29,746. Add that t.o the gross amount'derived
from sales ( £42,000) and you get £71,746. which
in any rational system of accountancy and stock-
taking brings the “immense loss suffered by N. S.
Wales breeders” down to £1906.
* * * #
Died last week Bob McCullagh, who burst
into Melbourne prominence when the present “safety”
bicycle first came into vogue, and the Austral Wheel
Race meeting was beginning to boom. Bob escaped
from a bank clerkship to become sec. of the Mel-
bourne Bicycle Club. Under his sway the club
was a very lively concern, especially at nights,
until professional cycling began to smell rank unto
and the gentle public wanted no more of it.
Then the sec., with a good reserve fund in hand,
converted the old M.B.C. into the City Club at the
premises in Collins-street where the Overseas Club
afterwards found a home, and “Boh” became secre-
tary for that likewise. Finally he negotiated the
sale of the property to the Returned Sailors and
Soldiers’ League for the fine fat sum of £37,500.
After that he died.
* * * «*.
The Metropolitan Sires’ Produce Stakes
(the most important puppy event in Australia) proved
the same sort of frost as the Waterloo Cup. There
promised to be about 64 dogs running, but when the
tykes came to be named there were only 32, includ-
ing but three Victorians.
Despite the fact that the Victorians will not come
into the Australasian Coursing Union they sent a
team across for the first Australasian Waterloo Cup,
which was decided at Rooty Hill last week-end;
and Watehguard, one of them, won very nicely
from the N. S. Wales dog Britling. The winner
was backed to bring his supporters well over
£lOOO. As a puppy lie was bought for £4O, and he
has already won the Chirnside Cup at Werribee and
the Waterloo Cup. Two Queensland and five M.L. dogs
started, and all showed up poorlv. One of the M.L.
reps., however, fluked the Last Trv Stakes.
* » * " *
Saturday’s racing at Williamstown was full
of promise for the July-August jumping carnival in
.Melbourne, and for the G. N. Hurdle in particular.
Silent W ay, a son of New Zealand, who lately made
an impressive first appearance over hurdles, won the
Maiden easily from Hereweah, but as the latter will
have a pull of 221 b. in the National their relative
prospects remain as before. In the other hurdle
race it happened that the first six horses—Will Com-
fort, Explorer, Kinlark, Lootoo. Beltane and Sir
Thomas—were half a dozen that have all been spoken
of for the big event at Flemington. The revival
of Will Comfort was a reminder of how the early
punters rushed him just 12 months ago, when he
ran not so well as was expected. With the same
National weight that he got last vear Will Comfor:
looks very dangerous, for he is still a young one, as
hurdlers go, and should be considerably improved.
If all tbe nags above mentioned, and eight or 10
others already in the market, keep on their racing
legs until the first Saturday in Julv, the National
will be a great event. At the present moment the
odds are about 7 to 2 against anyone naming the
winner’s place of birth or domicile, counting each
Australian State as a “place” within the meaning of
the bet.
* * * *
Master Warkon won the Albion Cup in
Brisbane on Saturday in 2min. 14sec. Oetigne, a*
Randwick, carrying lib. less, was credited with 2min.
4|sec. for the mile and a quarter last year.
# * * " #
Vincent Zed, Adelaide’s new capitalist.
has taken a fancy to racing, and has bought in one
line the horses of contractor Timms. Ringbier is
perhaps the best known of them. The trainer for the
new owner is to he W. H. Brown, latolv of the
Western District of Vic., but well known before that
in Melbourne and Sydney.
* * * *
The M.L. team toured Northern N.S.W.
last week and licked Tamworth (21 —13) and New-
castle (11 —3). In both matches reserve players
were given a fly. Ifwerson was retained and scored
two tries and three goals (12 out of 21) v. Tam-
worth, and two tries and a goal (8 out of 11) v.
Newcastle. He is easily the beadiest and most
dangerous player in the All Blacks army.
* * * »
The efficiency of the Maorilander at
Rugby is his undoing as a Leaguer. He early
learned that seven hefty forwards, fast on their
feet and unscrupulous in the serum, with a couple
of pugs operating on the wings and “keeping the
game tight,” could make themselves masters of any
situation. It was Tom Ellison who carried this
idea to perfection and made a M.L. rep. team prac-
tically unbeatable by anything on earth at the 15-
a-side game. Ellison was a half-easte and a lawyer,
with a positive genius for the major tactics' of
football—and for devising schemes to beat the rules.
The tradition of the beefy phalanx in front still
hangs heavily on the Maorilander. So much so that be
has failed.up to now, to grasp that in the more open and
spectacular League game the affray must be won
bv the backs. At Rugbv the side which keeps the
ball surrounded by a tearing pack of eager 14st.
forwards must win. In the League game the crowd
which gets the ball out into the open and substitutes
individual rapidity for combined massiveness has
the better show.
N.S.W. rink championship final transpired
on the City green on Saturday. The teams were
skippered by Harry Moses (Ashfield) and G. A.
1 home (Victoria Park). In the early part, Victoria
1 ark led by 6—o. But Ashfield remained captain of
its soul and bowled with tremendous resolution.
Amid terrific excitement Ashfield, with eight ends
to go, led by 22—8. A desperate finish resulted in a
win on the post for Ashfield, 24—20.
* * * *
Metrop. (Sydney) Ilifie Union’s grade
championship was won by Parramatta A on Saturday.
1 hey scored 474 < at. 700yds.) v. Itandwick Literarv
Institute, and wound up with a grand total of 2792
for the year. Sydney A were runners-up with 2737.
The ancient town has won in three successive years.
* * * it
“The Darcy Story,” by “Solar Plexus,”
is to hand from the New Century Press, Sydney.
The writer was one of the earliest to identify the
dead boxer as a champion of chanmions, and he
remained his admirer and friend to the last. Those
who want to know all about one of the most reniark-
a kr e j r ' n o'fi.3'hters Australia has produced can’t
afford to miss this book.
* * * *
The latest cable re the Willard-Dempsey
affair mentions that the champion is eating lightly,
‘ °*fen only one meal a dav.” No big fio-ht has
ever been won on such a diet. Sullivan, Corbett,
Jackson and Johnson were all voracious eaters when
at their top. Tommy Burns was normally a big
eater, but he went off his food just before the fight
that ended his career as a world's champion—that
is to say, when he realised that Johnson w T as fit,
and determined to win if he could. Willard is
well past his prime and Dempsey has only just
entered on his. It may be that the mountainous
Kansas pug is feeling the premonitory symptoms of
cold feet.
* * * »
The Uren-Thompson struggle at Sydney
Stadium on Saturday night was one of the foulest
seen for a long time. Urea was the guilty party
throughout, his favorite device being to hold
with the left and
punch with the right
or to punch with the
heel of the hand. The
sandy-haired Vie. cham-
pion took it all like
a lamb, and himself
fought with Quixotic
fairness. Uren, for
pome reason, is allowed
remarkable license at
Sydney Stadium. In
the 19th round,
Thompson being by
this time well and
truly licked, the
referee stopped the
butchery and laid his
hand on the unworthy
head of Ausfralia’s pres-
ent middleweight champ.
There was a 10-round
prelim, between T.
Hannan and F. Man-
sell which was worth
the entrance-money in
itself. The two lads
battled with wonderful
vim and fairness, and
on Hannan getting the
decision they departed
together like amicable
brothers.
BARNEY
THOMPSON,
welter and middle
champion of
Victoria.
Billy Eugene, the foreign-looking little
Digger who gained a big name as a lightweight
abroad, beat Mick Mulqueen on points at Sydney
Stadium on Monday night. It was a good clean go
and a to the parties concerned.
Lightweights Eugene Yolaire (France)
and Rud Kee (China) met at Brisbane Stadium on
Saturday night before an audience which was mostly
Australian. They fought well for nine rounds, and
then the Orient, in a well-intentioned effort to
finish the affair out of hand, smote trance low. it
was a palpable accident, but the srniter was dis-
qualified.
* * * *
Harry Stone* who is making a big attempt
to popularise boxing in Adelaide, gives his shows on
the stage of the King’s Theatre, which is not other-
wise engaged at presmt. The latest event was also
the best, his own meeting with Kid McCoy. Both
scaled about 91st., Harry being a trifle the heavier.
The lightweight chammonshio of Australia was
alleged to depend on the meeting, and Stone won it
comfortably, with more science and a very awkward
straight left. McCoy showed great pluck, and in
the fifth and sixth seemed a likely winner; but he
went to pieces after the eighth, and in the 12th his
corner, after making an unsuccessful appeal for a
foul, threw in the rag.
St. John, who won the singles championship
at tennis in Brisbane on Saturday, has only one hand.
He played full back for Queensland in the old Union
days.
* * • *
The doubles in the Kent tennis champion-
ship last week were a gift to Brookes and Patter-
son, who probably only visited the hoc country to
get a bit of practice together. Apparently in any
county tournament it is the Australian contingent
first and the locals nowhere.
* * * •
S.A. Lawn Tennis Association reported
at a recent meeting that the revival of the game in
Adelaide has surpassed expectations, and that the
championship tournament showed a good profit in
spite of the absence of the old inter-State visitors.
It was resolved to make a firm bid for the right to
hold the championships of Australia in Adelaide next
year. All matches are played on the fine lawns be-
hind the pavilion on the Oval, which has become
the centre of athletic games in Adelaide.
. « * *
Allan Baker, master of the Adelaide Hun*
some SO years ago —a younger brother of late poli-
tician Richard Chaffey Baker—-writes from British
Columbia that his home there was burnt down
lately. He made “one dive’’ into the burning pile,
and all he could save was an old racing-cup of his
sporting father, John Baker, and a Hunt Cup of his
own.
» < * *
“Bix”: “Ingelara” (B. 5/6/’l9) chronicle*
the defeat of the landholder bv the angler in an
action for trespass against the latter on the ground
that the land was not enclosed on all sides, the river
not being a fence. This point was decided similarly
in a trespass case against an angler in a N. S. Wales
South Coast court about 15 years ago. Another
point on which the landgrabber may easily be put
out of court is in connection with unlawfully-
enclosed roads. On many large properties the holding
comprises a collection of conditionally' purchased
freeholds (probably mostly dummied), with the
intervening roads (paper roads in most cases, cer-
tainly, but still roads) fenced in with the station
paddocks. Some years ago I asked the manager of a
station on the Lachlan for permission to shoot ducks
on portion of the property. I got the refusal I ex-
pected, and played my trump card —a parish map
showing part of the holding. I asked, “Have all
these roads through C—— been fenced off, or has
permission to enclose them been obtained?” The
manager looked savage for a moment and then said
mildly, “Yes, Mr. Bix; you can shoot on C •
But I will ask you not to make it public.” I didn’t,
but 1 had my day’s sport.
* * * *
“Snell”: With quite unconscious humor
the popular bookmaker explained to a small party
in a non-sectarian club in Melbourne how he came
to take to the game. The foundation of his for-
tunes, it seemed, was a five-pound note that came
into his hands most providentially. He was on the
lawn at Flemington one Cup Day many y'ears ago,
a mere member of the betting public, and he had
had a hard day up to now. “I had lest all I had
and a little I hadn’t,” said he—“that is to say
some few quids that weren’t mine to lose. I was
standing just beyond the grandstand on the edge
of the betting crowd, feeling like hell, and wonder-
ing whether drowning was really as easy' as it
looked. I had my raincoat draped over my two
arms in front of me, so, and that helped the Bloke’s
delusion, I suppose. The Bloke was drunk. He
was very drunk. He stopped in front of me, and
he was fumbling a quid. He said something I did
not notice; then louder said he: ‘What price Dexter
for the next ?’ I saw the opportunity in a flash,
and in half a tick I grabbed it. ‘Fifteen to one.
Dexter,’ said I. ‘l’ll have five pounds’ worth of
that,’ said the Bloke. I dug an old ticket out of
my pocket, 1 scribbled nothing on it with a fin.
flourish, snapped his fiver, and the moment th
Bloke’s back was turned melted into the mass.
From that minute my mind was made up. ‘lf it’s
as easy as that,’ I said, ‘l’m one.’ I put the whole
of the fivc-r on Blue Spot at elevens to one, and
Blue Spot got home. There were only two more
races, and I cleaned up £llB. I carried my own
bag at the next Flemington meeting, and I’ve never
looked back. Now, don’t any of you fellows make
a mistake. / intended paying the Bloke if Dexter
had won.”
* * * *
“Peery” Stapleton, of Bathurst (N.S.W.).
died last week. His large and cheery countenance
was one of the well-known features of the West, and
he had been a great sportsman in his day—champion
plunger of Australia, a crack swimmer, and a
man who was absorbed in most other varieties of
sport. He was a founder of the Bathurst T.C.
* * * #
De Palma, the Yankee motorist, while
fracturing 10 world’s records recently, at Daytona
Beach, Florida, achieved a speed of 150 miles an
hour. He was driving a Packard Special Twin Six.
with Goodyear eord-tvres.
* * * -»• 4i
It has been unofficially decided that there
is to be no open golf championship played in Sydnev
this year. One of the reasons is that Claude Fel-
stead, who won in 1909, and Ivo Whitton, who was
the victor in 1912 and 1913, are still in Europe.
Ine latter is the present open champion, as no con-
test has been held since 1913. Whitton went to
England to learn the wool trade, stayed there for two
years, came home early in 1915, and then enlisted
and returned to England. Whitton’s score in 1913 was
the smallest ever returned in an Australian cham-
pionship (302), the next being that of Clyde Pearc,
m 1908 (311). Pearce was unfortunately killed in
action.
A similar decision has been come to in England :
bat there a different state of affairs exists. Most of
the players who would compete are out of form.
Massey has been right through the war and was
wounded. J. H. Taylor has been acting as a police-
man, while Braid has been employed in munition
work. Many of the lesser players, who would have a
chance of getting away with the championship, have
been war-busv in France, and will require time to
get their golfing legs again.
Harry Lauder can play golf with the rest of them.
Recently when he went out for a wee whack with
J. Kirkwood, on an allowance of 20 strokes, a big
crowd turned up to see some comedy. But Lauder’s
first two strokes shattered that expectation. In ony
case there wasna likely to be free fun. No na I
* * * *
The Amateur Athletic Association of S.A.
is netting to work again after the war. The move-
ment has never been really popular in Adelaide; the
B Port was good, but the public stayed away. Recent
arrivals from England tend to keep things going
with frequent walking and long-distance running
events, and the A.A.A. has a better chance now
than at any previous time. The championships
arranged for next September are to be on Olympic
lines, to include—all in the open—boxing, wrestling,
gvmnasiies and tug-of-war, as well as the more usual
events.
THE VETERAN’S TALE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now gather round the Are, my lads, and fill me
up a beer
Wnile 1 descant on William Smiggs, the Roseville
pioneer.
rhej talked of A\ aII and Horder in the winter of
one-nine,
But, as a peerless sportsman, it was always Smiggs
for mine.
Smiggs never drew a record “gate”; he never roused
a cheer;
He never played a game at all so far as I could
hear.
But every night, at half-past six, he struggled from
h s train
And went on foot to “Slusshe,” his home, in Mud-
street- near the drain.
T speak of 20 years ago, when Mud-street was a
spot
Whe.-e half the refuse of the Shire was casuallv
shot ;
Where cabs went down all standing, and were never
seen again,
And cars Were lost for ever after ev’ry spell of rain.
Bid William Sniiggs show craven fear to find his
street a stream?
Bid he withdraw and seek some pub’s exhilarating
gleam ?
Sot he! He donned his lifebelt where the raging
torrent flowed.
And, holding high his bag and boots, he swam to
his abode.
Acs, boys: he swam (Another beer? I don't mind if
i do.)
And later he’d come out and fish for p’r’aps an hour
or two.
He caught such thirgs as dogs and cats—his record
night was ten—
And conger-eels and petrol-tins, and now and then
a hen.
A grocer during business hours, the rest of William’s
life
Was centred on athletic things—’twas one long, tire-
less strife,
Lnhelped by praise, or hope of gain, or suchlike spurs
and goads,
To keep himself in proper nick to face his suburb’s
roads.
N.B.W.
10-2-4.


f
k
vMte n
To Have a Knowledge
of Boxing
should be the aim of every man. In the hour of need it will be your
greatest friend. A scientific knowledge of boxing will enable you to
deliver merited punishment to the “bully”—to assert your manliness. You
have no excuse for remaining inexperienced, and a good target for the
aggressor. Let me make you a cool, determined, scientific boxer, with a
substantial punch and effective guard—a manly man, well able to look
after yourself, and to win the respect of others.
k I Teach Boxing by Post
—teach it in a thorough, scientific and practical
manner. Don t get the idea that I teach you only
the theory, because that's not so. Under iny guid-
ance, you will, learn how to make all the “hits, ’
“stops,” and “moves” of the world's most scientific
boxers.
A delightful pastime, and a valuable exercise for
body and brain, is within your grasp. Write your
name and address across this advertisement and post
it to me, with three stamps to cover postage, and I
will send you my interesting booklet, “Scientific
Boxirg in the Home.”
Those desiring to avail themselves of
personal instruction are invited to call
and inspect my modern institute, and
have a chat with me about their re-
quirements.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
Australia’s Leading Physical Culture Institute,
51 Municipal Buildings,
82a Oxford St. (Cr. Crown Bt.), Sydney
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOR
MINING, MILLING, etc.
INCLUDING
STEAH ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL 131 C POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO
THE SECRETARY
Box 229 G.P.0.,
MELBOURNE.
THE GENERAL MANAGER
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
THE SECRETARY
Box 220 G.P.0.,
SYDNhY.
BRITISH IMPERIAL OILCO.LTD.
ALL .STATES V HEW ZEALAND
CAPILLARINE
for
Quick
Results.
A splendid growth of Hair can be produced
on the upper lip by the aid of CAPIL-
LARINE. Make up your mind to grow the
Moustache, and start using CAPILLARINE
right away. A preparation of unfailing
merit.
PRICE 10/6 JAR—POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEIM,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established over SO s/ears.
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Beil§ Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office—
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
*■l
w,
m
QUEENSLAND.
TH E KEY TO
PROSPERITY.
QUEENSLAND
opens the Joor to
prosperity tor those
requiring land
Particulars ot the
millions ol acres oi
Crown Land
now available will be
sent you at once,
also Booklets on the
State's resources—
FREE ——
US amt
Address
Queensland Government
ifiteliiteace tad Tourist Bureau
BRISBANE J
SB.
m
Solid Gold
Watch Chains.
Anyone in the jewellery trade will
tell you that good Gold Chains have
been scarce during the war. Fortu-
nately we can supply.
We are selling agents for one of the
largest manufacturers of High-grade
Gold Chains in the Commonwealth,
and are able to give exceptional value
for your money.
StVe illustrated is n SOLTD Gold
double-curb Albert with swivels on
each end, Bar and Pendant.
9-carat Gold, £2 15s.
A heavier chain of the same pattern,
9-carat Gold, £3 15s.
QUALITY STAMPED ON EVERY
LINK.
Either pattern can be selected with
confidence. Of nice weight and a de-
sign that can be worn with the know-
ledge that it represents good taste and
discriminating judgment.
All orders sent by registered mail.
We pay Postage.
Manufacturers’
Selling Agency,
8 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
for Indigestion.
mm
m
kv/vtoc/v 2 £fv(v \ fv&SaP
.• xywoctf
KYNOCH
AMMUNITION
“PRIM AX” and “RON AX”
CARTRIDGES—KYNOCH made
and loaded. Beth possess excellent shoot-
ing qualities, “PRIMAX” being the
highest-grade cartridge in a 2|-inch case
sold on the Australasian market, while
“BONAX” enjoys the largest sale of
any individual cartridge in the world.
Always specify KYNOCH Ammunition
when ordering from your dealer.
British Made Throughout.
v* only—Scottish House, 90 William street, Melbourne.
Kynoch House, 277 Clarence Street, Sydney.
The“BURBERRY”
is unquestionably THE ideal
Coat for ALL-WEATHER Wear.
It is equally serviceable during a
light shower or a heavy down-
pour —so light that you are hardly
conscious of its weight —and
possesses a Dignity of Style and
Quality that make it the Aristo-
crat of the Overcoat World. The
Extensive Range
of Styles
we’ve just opened up comprises
the finest selection of “Burberrys”
ever received in Melbourne, and
includes the latest “Burberry”
Models for Men and Women. I£
you cannot CALL—WRITE for
Post Free Catalogue and Price
List.
10 per cent. Discount
to Returned Soldiers.
Our new Mail Order Catalog is
notv ready. Write for your
Copy to-day.
mi
Lincoln, Stuart & Go. Pty. Ltd.
244-54 Flinders Street, Melbourne.


" * A "
jrtSSs:*-;
«*• /•■ *\ : I .' >C
. "-.'• • * s r.;
Wm
w
- \ ~ 1 '** iZ>w^
Lr—i?
.—_ —hwitoumi-u,. w,mi ,„ ~f r^a**"*’
STETSON VELOUR
THE Hat of Distinction is undoubtedly the “Stetson Velour ” and
at Farmer’s, where the distinctive in dress is cultivated to
perfection, the “Stetson Velour” is now displayed. The shapes
include the latest 1019 adaptable brims, also Flat Sailor and Bretonne
Sailor shapes. The colorings are fawn, v. rose, saxe, jade, amethyst,
mole, nigger, navy, black. The Hats tnat are new in shape each Season’
as only first-class Millinery should be. are “Stetson Velours.”
Carriage paid on Fashion Goods
FARMER’S
’Phone, “City, Eleven Thousand’’
Your
Figure
Re-created
By the SHAVE '
system of model fit-
ting it is possible
to have your figure
re-created in the
Shave Workrooms
and upon the re-
creation perfect
gowns built without any fittings.
The name “Shave" is an assurance
of vogue.
Visits to Sydney and Adelaide twice
and to Brisbane once yearly
SHAVE
Ladies' Tailors
Dressmakers
Centreway
Melbourne
May we invite you to our next Display ?
AAeltonian
j▼ % HIGH-CLASS
ISPgfIAITIES
Creams
ir.d
Pastes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANG LTD
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne.
E. BROWN © SONS LONDON
AGENCIES • ALL • OVER • THE • WORLD
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warner's
Rust Proof
Corsets
Governor Stanley is slowly recovering
from his illness —-an internal ailment which
necessitated rest. Two or three meetings of
the Executive Council, to put through such
orders as the extension of Railway Commis-
sioner Norman’s term till Sept. 30 and the
appointment of a Board to inquire into the
railway smash near Castlemaine, had to be
held in his Ex.’s bedroom.
The G.-G. and Lady Helen gave a dinner
party on Thursday for the leading naval
lights plus Generals White and McCay and
some of the Best People. Subsequently
there was a heavy bombardment of 0.8. E.
and C.8.E., with many casualties. Edward
Mitchell was struck by a K.C.M.G.
A social tragedy of the week was the
death from ’flu of the Philip Russells’ elder
daughter Joan. She was only 22 and one
of the handsomest girls in moneyed circles.
Her illness began after the vice-regal dance
the other Saturday, and the end came eight
days later.
The matrons’ two-step in the Prahran
Town Hall was hastily ruled out, the cancel-
lation being due to a variety of causes —’flu,
the strike and the death of the Philip
Russells’ daughter. The function was a
kind of offshoot of the projected Victory
Ball which fell to pieces in the making.
This does not seem the season for expensive
revels.
The Jellicoe-week crowds started a fresh
influenza wave. Many who would not enter
a theatre for fear of infection cheerfully
battled amid the crowds as if the epidemic
had called a halt for the occasion; and
dozens of the Most Paragraphed have found
that it hadn’t.
The visiting naval officers don’t rush all
the dances given in their honor. The poor
things have been entertained too heavily in
previous ports to pump up much enthusiasm.
Eight are told off in the wardroom for duty
at each dance to which the officers have been
invited. Yet one wretched hostess didn’t
even secure a single sailor for Tier frivol. Owing
to the number of parties which raged on
that day, there were not enough to go round.
Worst of all, the poor ladies who squander
money on revels find they can’t count on the
soldiers, many of whom declare thev are too
war-saddened to jazz.
Captain and Mrs. Finch-Knightly both
drew their ’flu ration last week. The
pleasant Irishwoman (one of the Boyle clan)
is a pretty matron and has made a lot of
triends since settling down in one of the
vice-regal lodges. The lodge, by the way,
is several sizes too small for the smallest tea-
party.
Genthelp Clifford is on the convalescent
list after 10 days of ’flu. During his term
of active service he got badly gassed and it
left him so thin that he will hardly be visible
if the ’flu has treated him badly.
Jellicoe is the first Admiral of the Fleet
who has come to Melbourne, but he rarely
puts on his superfluous gold braid. He was
in service uniform even on the day he
landed. Like many sailors when they get
on in years, he is a great home man. People
from England, who are supposed to know
all about it. say that when Jellicoe goes out
walking, the hand that ruled the Navy
sometimes shoves the pram.
The Jellicoes fed the vice-regal Fergusons
and a small official party, which included
the Gaud Mayor and Mrs. Cabena, on the
oiew Zealand the other Tuesday evening.
Lady Jellicoe hostessed in shell-pink chiffon.
On Wednesday afternoon the Victoria
League members purred round the Admiral’s
wife at Mrs. Alec Landale’s Aroona, which
veas dressed with a shopful of flowers. The
Allen dame (League president) and Mrs.
Landale were hostesses-in-chief. The star
guest sailed in a trifle behind time. She
was a symphony in pale grey and silver em-
broidery, and carried a oresentation trophy
of Iceland poppies. When the flutter of her
arrival had died down Corporal Philips gave
imitations of birds and beasts. Then tea
was handed round in the billiard-room, and
the guests gave imitations of a cage of par-
rots. It was a cheery frivol, and the guest
got off with a minimum of hand-shaking.
The rush of mild entertainments was too
much for Lady Jellicoe, it seems, and on
Friday the doctor commanded her to cancel
all engagements. On Thursday the crowd
in waiting at Albert Park Lake had expected
to see her with her husband when he came
to inspect the Sea Scouts, who- have now
reached a total of 62 and will soon be twice
as many. The sailor boys made a brave show,
and Jellicoe beamed on them like a father.
To the Ancient Mariners, who are running
the Scouts, the visitor adopted a fraternal
attitude over the inevitable glass of wine.
Frank Davies and the others were “fellow
ancient mariners,” and as ex-members of the
mercantile marine they got almost as much
admiration from Jellicoe as they lavish upon
their former service at their monthly con-
vivial meetings. The Mariners didn’t send
their guest away empty-handed. One of
them had possessed a walking-stick made of
oak and mounted with copper, wood and
metal being taken from two of Nelson’s old
This was presented to the guest.
Jellicoe just loved the souvenir, so he said.
William Oman, of Derrinallum, who has
been on the job of sorting out soldiers’ effects
and tracing missing men of the A.1.F., is
home again. Gardner Oman, who helped
with the Australian guns across-Channel,
came with him.
Next month Laur-
ence O. Laver makes
his musical debut in
two big piano con-
certos under the
baton of his popular
dad. The Ormond
Professor thinks
highly of his gifted
offspring, and
Edward Goll, whom
the youth has under-
studied for over two
years, has given him
an eloquent certifi-
cate. Laurence
Laver, now Bachelor
of Music, is the
product of Austra-
lian and Continental
teachers. In 1910
he went to Europe, where Professor Kwast,
who had polished his father, declared that
his warmest admirers could await his future
without misgiving. Though he is only 25,
he has faced the best music for over 20
years: he was put into serious training at
four. It was Alice Maurice-Carton who
took him in hand at that stage, and she
failed to make any study difficult for the
prodigious kid.
The William Sargoods, of Narada, on their
way home from England after a long term
of war-work with Red Cross and Y.M.Q.A.,
were among the returning Australians who
reached Maoriland on the Niagara’s last trip,
to be hung up there because of strike difficul-
ties. Two Sargood lads are sharing the
adventures.
Dr. ,T. V. Pearce, newly-appointed to the
quarantine-station at Thursday Island, is a
Melbourne Uni. graduate and served with
the A.A.M.C., starting his war-work in 1915.
He leaves a lesser job in the Quarantine
Department to go up North.
Dr. Maudsley’s elevation to the sirage was
not unexpected, seeing that he was made a
C.M.G. two or three years ago. Apart from
the merits of his w r ar work, Dr. Maudsley
commanded attention in official circles in
Britain on account of his name, for he is
connected with the aristocracy of the pro-
fession. It was a Dr. Maudsley who suc-
ceeded Forbes Winslow as the leading brain
specialist in London, and made a European
reputation as a writer. Even the German
doctors admitted the original Maudsley to
the inner circle of super-men, despite his
hateful Englishness. The new knight’s lady
is a daughter of Archdeacon Stretch and a
sister of the genial Bishop Stretch, lately
deceased.
Robert Widdis, the Wimmera grazier,
passed away in a private hospital last week.
Robert- was only 49* but he had survived
brother John, who ran the l'acehorses and
made a particular splash when Patrobas was
doing great things in the colors of his wife.
Our old Guvment-llouse friend Edward
Wallington has just been appointed treasurer
to Queen Mary. The reliable “Wally” has
been one of the props of the Royal household
for some time. He started his career in a
pedagogue’s cap and gown, which the moths
have long since eaten. His watchword,
“Better not,” so helpful in the old vice-regal
days, has helped this ideal secretary up
the ladder. Officialdom for officials was hi*
method and a good one. Wally is jstill a
bachelor. “Better not” again !
It: was while touring Australia that the
King (then Cornwall) first met Wallington,
who was th;en private sec. to the G.-G. Hope-
toun. Shortly after that he was made a
Groom of the Bedchamber, and has ever
since been employed at Court. When able
to get away from his duties at Buckingham
Palace (which is not often) he shares a
charming little country house with his sisters
at Hilperton, near Trowbridge.
Ex-padre Smith Macßain, of Queenscliff,
who lately came home after doing his bit
in France with the A.1.F., has started off
again for Britain aboard the Anchises, tak-
ing Mrs. Macßain and short-skirted Charlotte
for a visit to their Scottish relatives-by-
marriage. Macßain himself is a Scot who
came to Australia as a lad and lived happily
ever after.
Toorak matrons have organised.a jazz club,
which will hold fortnightly Tuesday-after-
noon hops in the Masonic Hall at something
over f 1 a head. The beautiful idea is to save
the expense usual to evening parties. The Dis-
charged Soldiers’ Band has been engaged.
The club’s motto is: “To do some good and
enjoy some fun.” It should uplift Human-
ity and give Bolshevism its death-blow.
At the first meeting of the Toorakety
jazz club at the Masonic Hall, French Con-
sul Fliche and a trio of other jazzers’ hus-
bands rotated in a garden of girls. There
was a good rally of young things who tried
to look as if they liked it, but many of Joan
Russell’s pals stayed away, out of respect
to her memory. The Mackinnon and Miller
dames are pioneering the afternoon dancing
idea. But distracted housewives are terri-
fied lest domestic staffs may also organise
jazz clubs and ask for an extra day off.
Mrs. Leslie’s Stuart’s jazz party on Thurs-
day night, at Logan Lodge, wore a slightly
bridal aspect. It was to bid good-bye to
Betty O’Hara as a spinster. She takes
Digger “Pup” Stoddart for better or worse
this week. The spree was well garnished
with naval blue and brass buttons. It was
the first appearance of a real jazz orchestra,
and it was as if the musicians had ran-
sacked the kitchen for instruments. How-
ever, it gives the dancing ginger. Stately
dancing has gone out with the long corset.
Some of the folk looked in after the Govern-
ment House dinner. The popular hostess
sported black draperies relieved with dashes
of corn-rust yellow. (Heard that one
before?) Commodore Dumaresq. Captain
Kilby, Captain Cumberlege and Flag.-Lieut.
d’Oyley Hughes danced with the prettiest
Rappers. Mrs. Henry Osborne (remembered
by Melbournites as Marjorie Lord) attended
the revel in peach pink with a crimson fan.
Judge “Billy” Williams and his wife, Mrs.
Willie Tobin, Tasmanian belle Pauline
Cui ran and Roma Clarke were also there.
The stage was represented by dancer Madge
Elliot in black. When the stage goes into
black 7 always pushes off discreetly in
Adelaide pours out the gossip:—
Tj- ar ; workin e matrons were hostesses at Osborne
Hall the other night, with the officers of the Aus-
tralia as guests of honor. The “lights out at 10.30”
strike-order induced a temporary panic, but a
specially-installed plant got over that difficulty. The
affair gave this city its introduction to a jazz-band
and. jazzing, the Australia’s band supplying the
music and the cruiser’s officers the tuition. Same
evening there was a second Victory Ball at the Town
Hall for the Cheer-Up Hut. Meanwhile the light-
ing restrictions are worrying would-be givers of
entertainments. Trains and trams are being re-
duced. After next week there will be none at all
on Sundays, and on week-nights you must go
home before ten or walk through streets where the
lighting has been reduced by half. ICs a great citv
to be old in.
Miss de Lissa, who used to be head of the kinder-
gartens in this State, is now principal of the Gj-psy
Hill Training College, London. But she is Miss de
Lissa no longer, having married „C'apt. A. T. Thomn-
son, of the R.A.F., a few months ago.
Peter Dawson is back in Adelaide. He sang at a
Masonic something-or-other on Wednesday evening.
The Mawsons are installed, for the time being
at the South Australian Hotel. An empty house
takes a lot of finding, and all sorts of places are
being converted into flats to meet the shortage.
It has been finally decided that there shall be no
ustralia Day appeal this year, for either war funds
or local charities.
~V ; Z ; Mderman, a brother of the late Eugene, has
died at Glenelg alter a few days’ illness. He leaves
a widow, a daughter of the late Fowler Stewart.
® ne , °, f the Australia officers told us that the fia<”
that led the Allied fleet through the Dardanelles
after the signing of the Turkish armistice came
rom here. The original idea was that an Aus-
tralian destroyer should lead the procession ; but
as they hadnt enough speed, the honor was given
to the Shark—newer and faster. But she flew an
Australian flag, lent by the Torrens. It had been
presented to the Australian boat by a committee of
Adelaide women. Commander Dumaresq, by the
way, married a neice of Sir James Fergusson, who
was Governor here from 1869 till 1573, so that he
has a good many associations with this State. Bishop
Kenmon married a sister of Sir James’s.
Mrs. F. Stainbank, widow of Arthur T. Stain-
bank, who died recently at Semaphore, was a
daughter of Dr. Minshul, of Liverpool, who was
the grandson of an Earl of Lonsdale and a cousin
of the aged Empress Eugenie. Mrs. Stainbank’s son
belonged to a better aristocracy. ITe was a Digger
sergeant and a D.C.M., who was killed in Belgium
while leading his section.
There are 10 Streetons in the Lawrence
Abrahams collection, now hanging at the
Decoration Co.’s room in readiness for sale
on Friday. McCubbin, Heysen, Withers
and Wheeler are represented by five apiece.
Conder by three oils and one water-color,
and Lambert also figures in both sections.
The 72 canvases are an interesting lot and
the catalogue has some interesting things to
say of some of them. For instance, the por-
trait by Longstaff was chosen for Mr. xibra-
hams by his friend McCubbin when that
lamented artist was in England, and “The
Peacock’s Feather” is a self-portrait of
Charles Wheeler, D.O.M. In the black-and-
white section, where Norman Lindsay heads
the list, there are seven portraits of artists
by Will Dyson, and five of Fulwood’s etch-
ings. The gathering of all these pictures
together for the last time is a sad reminder
of the days when Mr. Abrahams kept open
house for artists on Sunday evenings.
Beating 40 other competitors from all parts
of Australia, Eily Starr, of Auburn, has won
the Melba singing scholarship at the Albert-
street Conservatorium, which means two
years’ free tuition. Eldest of a brood of
five, she is in her 19th year. Father made
a pile as a contractor and set up a fin.;
home close to Justice Isaacs’. Rev. Mother
Laurence, now of Ashfield, Sydney, then
principal of the Catholic Ladies’ College in
East Melbourne, was the first to discover
that little Starr had talent. From the C.L.
College she migrated to Genazzano, East
Kew, and the Sacred Heart Convent, Mal-
vern. After leaving the convent, she won
and held a job as stenographer and typist.
Trained by Florrie Green she is a graceful
dancer, and has appeared in more than one
ballet at Melbourne theatres. To Allen
Bindley she owes much for the development
of her voice up to the present. It seems
safe to say that, all going well, she will make
a name yet in opera.
Lauder farewelled a crammed house at the
King’s last week. The clans overwhelmed
the ordinary seating accommodation and
poured into an extempore pen on the stage.
Lauder had a cold which turned his tenderest
tone to porridge, though the disability became
an added glory to the bronchial effusiveness
of the old party in “When I Was Twenty-
one.” The comedian was greatly pleased by
the overflow into the O.P. wing. He shook
hands with two or three grandmas, waggled
his heid and his legs at the rest, and gener-
ally behaved as if Deoch and Doris had called
on him early. But Harry was careful to
water the alcohol when he came to sing the
roysterer’s anthem. He explained weakly
that a “Wee Deoch an’ Doris” was just as
often a “coop o’ coffee” as a “wee drappie o’
Scotch.” This pretty blue-ribbon sentiment
was followed by a speech in which he reck-
lessly invited the whole audience to call on
him when it visited Scotland.
Rumor busied herself with Harry Lauder-
on Saturday, and, before the evening, had put
him to bed with an attack of ’flu. Actually,
Harry was suffering from laryngitis, and had
to abandon a night in Horsham on that
account. The trouble was not big enough
for a doctor, and, anyhow, no Australian
medico would be allowed to approach the
patient while brother-in-law Tom Vallanee
could strike a fighting attitude. Tom is
Lauder’s nurse in all his ailments.
Gifted Avith large
quantities of dignity
and diplomacy, Pay-
master-Captain H.
H. Share has always
been found a perfect
lit in several big
jobs he has adorned.
When King George
came to bestoAV his
dad’s blessing on the
first Commonwealth
Parliament, Share
was one of the offi-
cial bodyguard, and
later lie beamed out
of the background
of Excellency North-
cote, who found him
an invaluable com-
forter and guide.
During this period the tactful secretary did
much of the pen- and spade-work for the
Women’s Work Exhibition. Later on he
developed in the charmed circle of Jellicoe,
and has become indispensable to the little
Admiral here because he adds to his energy
and efficiency the requisite knowledge of
Who’s Who and Who’s Not in the Common-
wealth. Share, of whom Humphrey and
Co. furnish the adjoining profile, is married
to a daughter of the late Admiral Bridges.
Young Raymond Parer, son of the Bourke-
street cafe proprietor, intends having a try
for the £lO,OOO offered by the Commonwealtn
Government for a flight from England to
Australia. The men who were boys when
he was a boy at Xavier’s reckon that, if
pluck and resourcefulness can do the trick.
Willy Watt might as well write out a cheque
for Raymond straight, away. Parer served
in the war in the R.F.C., and flew across the
Channel almost daily.


-
■
m
m i
*
m
m
'
i!
- 9
RIBBED
THREE
.
SQUARE TREAD
BARNET GLASS
MOTOR TTRES
Economic Tyre Service depends on three things—the quality of
the material put into the Tyre, the care expended in manufac-
turing it, and most important of ail, to make a tyre suitable for
the climatic and road conditions.
A Tyre created under the above methods must necessarily mean
QUALITY —and Quality means more MILEAGE.
This is what we claim for BARNET GLASS TYRES —not an
extravagant claim as thousands of Australians can testify.
MILES CHEAPER AND AUSTRALIAN
BARNET GLASS RUBBER COMPANY LIMITED
Founders of the Rubber Industry of Australia
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Christchurch, Auckland, Hobart, Launceston
—■
1
■lll
i
■8
H mm
mm
? •>
■ _ ■
■ Hi*
HI
;
ms i
■
n
m
H
mm
.?*z\:«
ftm ,
■I
H 1
1
tf
■
J@jp§fl
mm
. HMtMMMi
H
5
.- v ;-
■
H ■
v-: •: •:
&MMHSI
mm
; .
IIHMMi
m
■
«ni


Under
Hoyal
'■arrant
To H.M.
Kino
George V
CHAMPAGNE
c HampacN£
REIMS
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
THE
Vy AND
PRESERVING
TRADE MARK
REGISTERED
Z s S t N o^
C9ji
FOR
LINOS, WOOD FLOORS, etc.
There is ONLY ONE “ NUGGET.”
Refuse Just as Good.
Hotel de Luxe .
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
The Healthiest and most Beautiful Spot on
the Harbor. As warm in Winter as the South
of Prance.
Recommended by the Minister for Health and
the Medical Faculty. Finest Cuisine. Hot
and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Beautiful Beaches,
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths,
Fishing.
Tariff, from 12/6 per day, or
£3/10/- per week.
Tels.: Y3OOl, 3002.
Apply Manager.
Open to Discussion.
T T is an °P en Question as to whether the Queen of
Sheba wore Silk Gloves on the occasion of her
famous visit to King Solomon.
The Australian lady of to-day not only enhances
her charms by wearing a Glove of Silk, but, being
also possessed of good sense, she buys only those
Gloves that carry the maker’s guarantee.
Every pair of
Silk Gloves.
contains the maker’s guarantee, which we now pub-
lish :
If these Gloves wear through at the finger-
tips any time before they are washed, and
before the rest of ’ the Glove has had reason-
able wear, we will, upon receipt of this
ticket and your' Gloves, replace them with
a new pair.
THE AUSTRALIAN AGENT FOR THE MILT. IS
PERSONALLY RESPONSIBLE TO TIIE MERCH \NT
FOR HIS FULFILMENT OF THIS GUARANTEE.
A WOMAN’S
LETTER
’Flu has struck Government House. Mrs.
Elliot, a visitor, is down with it. And
Captain Stanham, A.D.0., has a severe
attack. Fortunately it spared him until
after the Macarthur Onslows’ ball.
There were 47 deaths from ’flu in Sydney
during the week-end, and, according to the
Board of Health, “the pandemic is steadily
growing in virulence.” When matters were
much less serious public gatherings were for-
bidden, which at any rate was one effective
precaution, since influenza is a “crowd dis-
ease.” There has been a series of dances
during the week, and it is largely the
dancers who are down now. After the
Town Hall ball quite a large proportion of
Sydney society became affected. And other
balls are threatened. It seems a needless
request for trouble.
Among those seriously ill at the time of
writing is Mrs. Reggie Laidley Her pretty
daughter Melanie, Mrs. Metcalf Jackson,
Rosamund Lumsdaine, Jeanette Gordon,
a Bowker girl, Nell Joske, and Dr. and Mrs.
Clayton are sufferers from amongst the
dancing contingent.
Of the 150 guests invited to the Macarthur
Onslow dance at Menangle only about 40 were
present. ’Flu, of course. On the morning of the
party about 60 telegrams of regret were re-
ceived. The Colonel’s lady chose ivory and
gold brocade for her frock: daughters Helen
and Elizabeth wore shimmering white and
pale blue respectively. All the arrange-
ments were elaborate; but the special train
for the guests was almost empty.
The path from the landing at Cockatoo
Island to the laying-off loft was a blaze of
colored lights on Saturday night, when the
King-Salters were at home on behalf of the
Missions. Daughter Peggy had put up her
hair for the event and led off the revels in
a blue frock with a hem of swansdown and
heelless slippers. The floor of the capacious
loft had been polished to a satin smooth-
ness, the walls were covered with the Union
Jack and its satellites, and the Dock band
and elective radiators kept off the slightest
touch of :o! 1. Mrs. King-Salter shook
hands in > w taffeta and silver lace; Mrs.
Glossop added a gold top to her black satin :
tall Beryl Edwards stepped out lustily in
emerald and gold, and wore a wreath of
gold leaves; Rhoda Kettlewell’s black and
white stripes were in every dance; the tall
Dangar and Cattrell misses were in black;
and one girl got a Watteau Shepherdess
effect from panniered lavender taffeta and
silver lace. Add to the well-groomed girls
plenty of partners, a silver moon, and a
chaplain or two to turn thoughts altar-wise ;
and if the net result isn’t several half-hoops,
well, the war has had a devastating effect
indeed.
His Ex. had a furious time at the open-
ing of the Poultry and Pigeon Club’s show
on Friday. When he announced that he
was a bit of a fancier himself the delighted
brethren gave him an enormous buff Orping-
ton to nurse. And because Daphne and Diana
inherit their father’s love of poultry, a trio
of spangled Hamburg's that took a special
prize were presented to them by the Club.
Lady Davidson was given merely an Austra-
lian-made silver photo-frame.
On a moonlight night last week Will
Shakspeare flung his glamor over the Con-
serve torium, and, aided by the Mendelssohn
musie, revealed the world where little wood-
land things go slipping and sliding over the
dewy grass. It was a night of fairy rings:
Oberon and Titania held court; lovers sighed
and quarrelled and then loved the more, and
the green background of the stage was a
leafy curtain through which one glimpsed
further magic woods where the spider wove
his shimmering web between sappy twigs,
and beetles crawled under their shells of
philosophy.
Shakspeare takes a lot of killing; and
even the most stilted mouthing cannot steal
the jewels from his words. Many of the
performers had the idea that their speeches
must be elocnted ; Hermia had moments when
the rising and falling inflection seemed of
greater importance than the spirit of the
part; Lysander and Demetrius were two
most aggressive young men. Lawrence
Campbell and Harrison Allen as Bottom and
Quince shared the honors of the evening
with the fairy band, for nothing could be
more charming than the Puck of Philippa
Murray, while Peaseblossoin, Cobweb Moth
and Mustardseed could be seen tripping and
fluttering and whispering their spell into
Verbrugghen’s ear as he led the wonderful
Mendelssohn music.
It is only fair to add that most of the
original cast had been changed, and there
were rechanges up till the very last moment.
The übiquitous microbe was to blame.
Many of the parts were taken at a few
hours’notice ; even elocution-master Holman,
who was to produce the play, was pressed
into the active cast and became Egeus, father
to the troublesome Hermia.
The Union Club is giving a dinner to
Lord Jellicoe. It will be the first affair of
the sort the Club has tendered to a visiting
notability since the war began.
Another member of the Dunvegan home-
circle slipped into the Unknown last week
after a short, sharp struggle with the disease
that a fortnight before had claimed her
brother Norman, the elder son of the family.
Mrs. Franldyn Jones was the oldest daugh-
ter of William Macleod, The Bulletin’s
managing director, and had won a large
circle of friends by her pleasant wit and
charm of manner. She leaves two small
children and an ex-soldier husband not long
returned from the war.
On Saturday next the Munro-Ferguson
will throw open the doors of Furlough
House. They really have been wide apart
for many weeks, and soldier’s wife and
youngster have been holidaying there in
force and enjoying the delights that Narra-
been offers with both hands; but the official
opening is to ask for subscriptions and the
Fuller lady and Mrs. Cooper Day hope to
get a brimming hat.
From September 29 to October 6 Sydney
will be more or less like a leaf from an
Elizabethan pageant. Every incident in the
growth of Australia, from the landing of
Captain Cook and the founding of the Win-
ter Garden right up to the birth of the
Anzac, will procesh through the streets;
our primary industries are to have lorries to
themselves, the whole to be escorted by 600
horsewomen. It is expressly mentioned that
they will be “costumed,” though not for an
instant would we have thought that the
Country Press Association would encourage
the Godiva act. “Bus'll Week” the spasm
is to be called, and the administration reck-
ons that 150,000 Waybacks will.down reaper
and binder to see the city sights.
Dr. Norman Robertson, a grandson of the
Ma State’s most picturesque Premier, has
sold his practice at Hunter’s Hill —the call
of the country proved too much for him. He
intends to live on one of his squattages. His
wife was Neida, elder daughter of the Ed-
mund Playfairs.
The Hilda liix
Nicholas art-show
proves that a woman
artist can attain a
draughtsmanship as
vigorous as any
male. The Paris-
trained Australian
draws with a bold-
ness that is not
afraid to handle the
most poignant grief,
the most haunting
terror. Her art has
all the ardor of
youth; even her
grief is the sweeping
grief of youth. (The
grief of old age is
so much more ter-
rible because it is
so helpless.) These sensational paintings
do not represent the best work of the artist,
though “Desolation,” depicting a figure with
sombre eyes crouching upon a stretch of
battle-scared country, is priced at one
thousand guineas! She revels in smaller
pictures full of sunshine and color r “Chinese
Blue,” “A Garden in Kent,” “La Robe
Chinoise,” “Purple and Blue” fascinate the
eyes, with their flames. You get the same
passion for color in a background to “A
Mother of France,” in which the artist por-
trays very finely the spirit of infinite
patience. Briefly, Mrs. Nicholas has an eye
for effective design, a sense of the dramatic
and decorative, and a fine strength of ex-
pression.
“Amalfi” drops the Letter a line:—
“A Woman’s Letter” (B. 19/4/’l9) makes refer-
ence to the marriage of Eileen Bede Dailey to
Colonel Alexander William Theobald de Vismes et
de Ponthieu, of the Grenadier Guards. I wonder
what relation he is to a chap I was at Sandhurst
with in 1882. We were at the first fortification
lecture after the opening of term, and the pro-
fessor, Major Williams, of the Royal Engineers, com-
monly known as “Pi Bill,” was calling the roll.
This was a most necessary proceeding, especially in
the winter, as we commenced work at 6 a.m. “De
Ponthieu,” sang out William. IVO reply. “Hi you!”
said the man on my right, digging his right-hand off-
sider in the ribs—“wake up, your name is being
called.” The smitten youth arose majestically. “I
beg your pardon, Major Williams,” he said, “I did
not realise you were addressing me. My name is
William Richard Raoul Guy de Vismes et de Pon-
thieu.” “Is it?” replied Pi Bill. “Far too long.
You’re ‘Ponty.’ ” And thereafter he was. I don’t
remember much about him except that his polo
ponies beat those of George Wyndham, Naylor
Levland, Selater, Booth, Portal, Forbes, Gough,
d’Aguilar and all the rest of the monied swells.
Ernest Joyce,
mentioned in last
week’s Bulletin as
likely to make an-
other trip to the
Antarctic (his third
—he was with Scott
and Shaekieton), had
the misfortune to
meet with an acci-
dent a few days ago
and is at present in
Sydney Hospital.
One friend who will
miss the ex-Royal
Navy man is the
beautiful big sledge
dog that he brought
home with him from
his last trek South.
Joyce, who is a great
hand with dogs, had charge of the “huskies
and will yarn to you for an hour about
their great qualities. He has numerous
stirring records in his diary of the close
friendships that spring up between the men
and dogs of a sledge outfit, and probably
you’ll get a chance to read them in book
form before long.
Brisbane audits the social ledger:—
Mrs. A. Benjamin, who has been in England for
about four years, came home the other day. With
her was her soldier-son, Captain Arthur, who was a
captive in Germany for some time.
Matthew Laird, one time general manager of the
Scottish Gympie gold-mines, died at his home at
Southport on Tuesday. He was a popular old sport.
The John Macgregors are being farewelled almost
daily. The Courier staffs presented handsome gifts
to both, and the Kangaroo Point branch of' the
Red Cros3 Society gave the lady a handbag, while
John’s howler friends said farewell at a tea and
toast party. Last Monday, in the kiosk at the
Botanic Gardens, Mrs. Mae. farewelled about 70
of her friends.
Major Tom Macleod, Bananaland’s aviator, is on
his way home in the Bremen. He has a Croix de
Guerre in the dressing-case which companion bird-
men gave him after his flue work during the first
Battle of Arras. A barrister by profession, Tom was
the founder of the Queensland Volunteer Flying
Corps, from which the R.F.C. gained eight recruits
in addition to himself. Blaine Macleod, who went
to England with her brother, was a V.A.D. at St.
Dunstan’s, the hospital for blind soldiers.
Captain Arnold Weinholt, D. 5.0., M.C., has con-
sented to hop over in Moreton at the next Federal
election. In the National interest, of course.
Lady Goold-Adams and Mrs. Theodore visited the
Central Technical College on Tuesday to see volun-
teer nurses in training to cope with the ’flu out-
break.
Is there any particular reason why trainloads of
wounded soldiers should be dropped into Brisbane at
any hour between 9.30 p.m. and 1 a.m. ? A recent
batch which arrived yawning at the latter hour had
to hang around the Board Room until nearly 3 p.m.
before they had done with the medical officer.
The good souls from the Red Cross kitchen waited
up to give them a hot supper, and then footed it
home. To an ordinary civilian mind, there seems
no adequate reason why troop-trains should not be
sent from Sydney so as to arrive here amid smiles
and sunshine.
There is a woman in Sydney who nursed
young Kingsford-Smith, the Australian bird
who is to attempt the England-Australia
flight in September. She says he is a
fair, cheery and altogether delightful boy,
but a deplorably unruly patient. He was
in the Sir John Ellerman Hospital (in
Regent’s Park, London) suffering from a
badly-split hand. (His machine had crashed
and his hand had been almost divided.) No
persuasion could get him to take half enough
care of himself; and his one aim was to
escape from the hospital and get back to his
squadron.
Quite a page or two of Australian history
were turned back when the death of Lady
Macleay, widow of long-dead George
Macleay, was announced. George, the son
of Alexander, was cousin to William, the
benefactor of the Linnean Society. He
accompanied Sturt in his 1829-1830 explora-
tions. Twice he ventured into matrimony,
the second time when he was 81; and as
the lady was young, she survived him 2S
years.
Grey-eyed Mrs. Fred McQuade, jun., who
was Merry Widow Betty Ohls, has slipped
away as unobtrusively as die came. She’s
on her way back to the “ranch” that’s only
two hours’ journey from New York, where
prize dogs and cattle are the joy of her
heart. Somehow, lately, she doesn’t care
much for even the sleekest cats.
The French Australian League is asking
for help to carry on the work of its three
orphanages in France. Poor poilu’s kiddies
know at least two Australian words:
“Waratah” and “Australia.” “Mimosa,”i
the name of the third home, isn t ‘dinkum
Aussie,” though its shelter is just as merci-
ful. The 14th of July is to see a wide appeal
for the children of the blue-uniformed sol-
dier who died not only for la belle France,
not only for his own little ones, but for
the childhood of all Australia.
There’s a proud mother at Cremorne wait-
ing for her boy, who is coming back to her
with his majority and a D.S.O. Major Wil-
liam Tomkinson was well known in the
Garrison Artillery, and there’s a terrific wel-
come awaiting him from the little wife with
the wonderful complexion that he left be-
hind him. She was one of the Johnston
girls. When the news came that her hus-
band was on the way home she had her
Saratoga packed to go to him.
The Queen Victoria Club has a new super-
intendent, and she is Edith Carne, formerly
of the Kindergarten Training College. The
Club will hold its annual meeting on the
24th.
About 40 of the Rose Bay Convent’s old
girls were at the annual luncheon last week.
This is always a perfectly-ordered and
served meal; and the menu-cards are, as a
rule, exquisitely painted. This year they
carried a water-color of Farm Cove with
the destroyers crouched therein; and the
dishes bore nautical titles. The girls voted
it one of their happiest reunions.
Last week two more old Sydney homes
became public institutions. One is pictur-
esque Santa Marina, the shelter of the
late John Sands; the other, Canonbury, at
Darling Point, was built by Harry Rickards.
The former has become a home in the care
of the Deserted Children’s Department;
Canonbury has been bought for £18,500 by
the A.J.C. for the use of wholly or partly
disabled soldiers.
There are to be three Nurses sets at the
Rose Ball —two from the Paddington Hos-
pital, chaperoned by Matron Clarke, and a
military set from Randwiek, with Matron
Hortin as whipper-up.
By the Wyreema, which arrived during
last week, came Hussey Burgh, son of Sir
William Edward Fairlie Cunningham, 13th
baronet, whose home is at Marengo, in this
State.. The baronetcy was created away
back in 1630, and the present holder of the
title is the g.-g.-g.-s. of the sth baronet, who
married into the Hussey Burgh Macartneys,
a family of note at the time of the union of
Great Britain and Ireland.
Petty’s is protecting Mr. and Mrs. AY. E.
Shaw from the rigors of Winter. They gave
their home to the nurses, you remember.
Returned recently, via America, the
brothers Saxton —Sergt. Harold and Gunner
Alec —sons of the well-known yachtsman
and motorist of Drummoyne. Both boys
speak with enthusiasm of their treatment in
the States and say that their Australian hats
secured them a welcome everywhere. Re-
turned Sammies would rush across the
streets to them and introduce them right and
left. Which gives point to the reflection
that the Governnfent missed a great chance
when it didn’t appoint a returned soldier to
the job of representing the Commonwealth
in the U.S.A.
Another decorated young man, Major J.
H. F. Pain, D. 5.0., of Cremorne, collected
a bride-elect on his travels. She' is Dorothy
Davis, of Maritzburg. The Digger met her
while she was nursing in France.
Owen Cox and Mayor Richards added
themselves to the decorations of the Welsh
Choral Society’s concert on Saturday, and
the applause w’hich greeted their stage
appearance .was only rivalled by that won
by the choir’s rendering of the Soldier’s
Chorus from “Faust.” They were there
the one to give and the other to receive
Taffy’s national flag which the Cymmro-
dorion and Welsh Choral Societies have pre-
sented to Sydney.
Basso Fred Collier is in Sydney with his
garments very slack after a second bout of
influenza. lie had his introduction to the
germ in Maoriland, but the meeting in Mel-
bourne was still less pleasant. But it’s not
.going, to affect his joining up with the re-
organised Rigo Opera Co., which is to start
in Adelaide under the Firm’s banner.
In the case of George Williamson, solicitor,
and good sport—the man who lived longer on
a houseboat than anybody else in Australia
great surgeon MacCormick was called in,
not, as most people expected, to operate on
the lungs, but to remove matter that had
gathered at the base of the brain. The
patient was given a fighting chance then;
but the heart was too weak.
Miss Giles, a Melbourne girl, was the star
at a musical affair given by Mrs. Arnold
Macnicol at the Town Hall last week. The
hostess, who had a European training her-
self, assembled a number of critical people,
who agreed that the young songstress should
one day make Australia proud of her. At
present she is studying with Stella Power’s
teacher in Melbourne. Truman supplied
her accompaniments.


m
a
V X
o
=C^~£l=i£=?
=£
(s'-?
■—~r*f x &!o^ i yt
mMMM:
SSSS.'
Pa
it
r
ss§
•>.
S
Motor Cars
The Farmer’s Car
Economical to purchase and maintain
light in weight electric lights and
electric starter —completely equip-
ped — powerful, flexible, en bloc en-
gine — easy-riding cantilever rear
springs — deep, soft upholstery.
Complete Catalogue
on request.
HpHE Overland
■** is popular the
world over among
farmers. It meets
every demand of rural
travel.
With it you save time in transporting
produce and supplies. You make neigh-
bours of your distant friends. And you
multiply your conveniences and the pleas-
ures of your family.
This Overland minds not swamp nor brush, muddy
roads nor steep hills.
Large wheels insure ample clearance. Cantilever rear
springs and strong axles insure easy riding. Electric
control buttons on the steering column insure ease of opera-
tion. Power, comfort, durability—all of these identify the
“Light Four”.
You will find that this Overland gives you more for the
money than any other car of its class.
May we demonstrate this completely equipped motor
Australian Distributors
GARRATTS LTD., Sydney
KELLOW-FALKINER PTY. LTD., Melbourne
AUTO-CARS LTD., Adelaide
EAGER & SON, Brisbane
ANDERSON & ADAMS LTD., Perth
H. G. HEATHORNE & CO. LTD., Hobart
A. HATRICK & CO., Wanganui, N.Z.
N.Z. FARMERS' CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION, Christchurch, N.Z.
The VVillys Overland Company, I oledo, Ohio.


V
Australian
Collars fori ou
COLDIERS returning
to “civies” after 2,
3, or 4 years’ service
usually find the clothes
they left behind too small
nouK Especially collars.
C • to your Mercers, men,
ard buy Australian made Pelaco
C liars, fhey’re comfortable. In
quality and appearance they are
not matched. And they take
laundry punishment - lots of if.
COLLARS
Buy also
Pelaco
kDE
R 5*
Shirts and
Pyjamas
“THERE'S MONEY IN THE PEN"
M
m
The above
is the title
of our book-
let, which
tells about
the possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
bv HARRY J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
difference between
learning to COPY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains, in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
penny stamps
to-dav for a
copy of this
booklet—
“THEßE’S
MONEY
IN
THE
PEN.”
The HARRy J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing;
12S Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY.
ST STERBROOK’S
PEN NIBS.
As a business-man
you like a smooth,
rapid correspond-
■ ence Pen.
rile —“Esterbrook,” Box 98 0.!*.<)., Sydney,
for samples of ESTERBROOK’S Swan,
Federal and Commercial Nibs.
MADS FROM LEMONS ONLY
/t BROOKE’S,, l
Tke Best Lemon iSquask
THE SEIF yULCAHKIHG
PATCH
WILL REPAIR
'ANY SIZE PJNCTUREI
BLOWOUT OR TORN PLACE
OBTAINABLE AT ALL GARAGES
PRODUCED ENTIRELY
IN AUSTRALIA.
I '
The
“LONGREACH.”
A Thoroughbred
Saddle.
The'LONGREACH”
for Comfort.
All our ideas of a comfortable saddle, giv-
ing at the same time long wear and security
to the rider, are embodied in this latest
saddle of ours. It is made on our high-class
“Fouright” tree with steel stirrup bars. The
flaps and skirts are combined in one piece and
seamed direct on to the seat, giving a very
narrow and non-chafing grip. The pads are
set very high up and give a grip along the
rider’s thighs. It has w r ide leather points to
the panel extending beyond the flaps—a little
point that will appeal to the bushman. The
leather used throughout is nice flexible kip
leather, and the color is a nearly-old color
that only needs a few rides to bring' it to the
color most men like. The fittings are b'evelled
stirrup-leathers, folded girth and solid nickel
stirrups.
Buyers in Queensland and
other States, write for Lib-
eral Freight Concessions.
£llllO/-
Freight Free for Cash to any
Port or Railway Station in
N S. Wales.
Send Height and Weight with order. Our fine illustrated catalogue shows 70 styles in
saddles; 40 in harness, Hodgson stockwhips, etc.
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON LTD.,
SADDLERS, C„
393 George Street, ttHCy
.<sl
m*. i
- ■
d
■isa
&
w
m
To Keep Young
Use a
Heating
ROYAL IRON
Benzine costing twopence
does the week’s ironing with
a “ ROYAL.”
ASK TO SEE IT.
In SYDNEY—CiviI Service Stores.
Mark Foy’s Etd.
Nock & Kirby Rtd.
Alex. Smith Rtd.
In BRISBANE—Barry & Roberts.
In PERTH—William Sandover & Co.
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
An y Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. live.,
lIS West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
IK
w Us
!* r *XT3, IH<M^
r^.CTMu**
»»
nJjglMAirfS*" l^
‘•was*"
No
trouble.
In every household there
comes the sudden emergency
when a child is seedy—a
husband is home late—
a wife has to be put on a
specially light diet. That is
the moment when Horlick’s
Malted Milk comes in so
handily. It is no trouble
to make, always proves
palatable, and can be given
with impunity to sick child,
tired husband, or dyspeptic
wife unhesitatingly, as it has
all the required ingredients
(Milk, Wheat and Malt) to
meet each case.
Ask for Horlick’s
Malted Milk
Write for sample, sending
2d. In 6tamps, to Hutchin-
son &Co. Ltd.,23 Jamieson
Street, Sydney, N.S.W.; or
Sharland & Co. Ltd., Lome
Street, Auckland, & Dixon
Street, Wellington, N.Z.
HORLICKS
MALTED MILK
No Shortage. Ample Supplies.
Missing Friends.
clary McKenzie.
CANNOT find you at old address. Kindly
communicate at once.
DON INQUIRES.
STYLE
WITH
EASE.
Abbey Shoes are specially constructed,
correctly designed. and carefully
modelled to give comfort, and render
satisfactory service.
Illustrated is a special Patent Derby
Shoe, in a very smart “made-to-order"
style.
Price 45/=
Also in Tan Willow Calf, same price.
Postage extra.
Made in half and full sizes, and in three
fittings—narrow, medium and wide.
Catalog will be gladlv forwarded on
application.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between (j.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Same and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
G.S.C.: As you say, the State Legislatures
of the U.S. all have two Chambers. On the other
hand, seven of the nine Canadian provinces and all
the Swiss cantons get along well enough with one.
In the German Empire and among the Latin-
American States things have always been mixed.
The Bulletin’s idea of State Legislatures of one
House, like the one-House municipalities of Sydney
and Melbourne, each of which places has more people
than Tasmania, S. Aus. or Westralia, is largely based
on a great increase of Federal authority. If the
Commonwealth Parliament, army and navy can’t
prevent people Bolsheviking, a State House more or
loss won’t stop them.... Mick Claydon: Can’t start
that subject going again. It’s done for. .. . 0.8. :
Vivid picture of an excursion:—
The moon shining lovely that night,
A duck or two we thought we’d sight,
So Boy with gun took a keen sight,
Swore he’d kill with all his might.
Now Roy blazed away for he knew not what,
For the gun had kicked and sent him back ;
Range came up to see what he had got,
Scarcely knew Roy on his back with his face all black.
So determined they were to have a duck,
On both hands and knees they crept,
To try and get a duck and still no luck,
Back to their tent they went and slept.
. ...L.M. (Hobart): Not a bad sonnet, of the
Shakspearean kind, but lacks interest... .A.R.8.:
Tennis verse too rugged. .. .F.R.G.: Stiff and com-
monplace... .Financial Sugar: Don’t get your point.
This paper didn’t object to the C.S.R. disclosing
three millions of secreted assets. What it didn’t
like was that for many years higher profits had
been made than had been disclosed... .Marie S.:
Sorry, it can’t be done that way.... Furlo: The B.
said: “The V.D. sufferer —unless lie is an officer —
not only loses his pay for the whole time he is ill,
and has the nature of his malady inscribed in his
pay-book, but has his shame publicly proclaimed to
his unit.” In other words, the V.D. ranker, in addi-
I tion to the officer’s penalties, has his name read
out on parade. Wliat’s wrong with the statement?
... .W.M. (Bathurst): Bound to publish the gist of
it:—
As we once have said, this morn
lie met his love amid the corn ;
But he knew not that he stood
Where the ants they kept their food,
lie neither, saw nor felt the ants
Till they crawled within his pants.
1 pray you to this vulgarity excuse.
For, really, I must tell the news.
And he was saying to the maid.
“Of your lips I’ll take a sip.”
But, alas, as these words he said
The ants gave him an awful nip.
And then he almost, I am afraid,
A word that was very bad said.
. ...A.E. (Q.) : Better grow up. .. . Arradin: Dis-
tressing verse, which flings the “more —law” rhyme
at us to start with. .. . A.G.S. (Glen I.): Nicely
done, but not for us. . . .K.S.: Well handled; but it
doesn’t get to anything... .F.R.A.: Well, he took
tlie wrong bottle and nothing happened. Why make
a song about it? G.G.8.: We struggle to return
rejected matter if accompanied by stamps. We
don’t reply by letter... .B.G. (Kmrajong) : Don’t
like it.... The Devil: You sent stamps but neither
name nor address. .. .H.A.M.: No use... .Bertha:
Several thousands of people have said that much
better.... Ishmail: Very p00r....M.5. (Yerong) :
Crude little flop round the more obvious common-
places. .. .F.W. (Vic.): Awful scrawl, awful stuff,
awful ink... .J.D.8.: “Evan’s Head” misses....
R.C. (Lindfield): Not up. Put each set on a
separate slip... .Antitoxin: No merit in it....
11.W.D.: Not nearly... .Pincushion: A first attempt?
Let’s hear from you after your 1015 t... .E.0.E.:
Commonplace handled with a cow-like weight....
H.M. (Crookwell): Not up. Why don’t you
take a distinctive pen-name? There are thousands
of “H.M.’s”. . . .11.0. J.: Every phrase and idea in it
has been worked to death.,. .K.J.S.: Good sample of
Direct Action in verse:—
The drunkard lurched into the room.
And hit his wife hard with a broom.
She cried, “Oh, Bill, you give me pain,
T do believe you are insane.”
With furious haste he dropped the broom,
And swung his wife around the room,
Until her hair
Caught in a chair.
When he began to curse and swear,
He dropped like a piece of lead,
Then gave her a furious kick on the head.
... . D.P.M.: No. You must get a clearer look than
that... . A.R.N.: Too many bad rlivines. ... A.S.
(S.A.) : Moves heavily.... C.D.C.: “After Closing
Time” is very thin beer A.D.S.: Jolt-headed
attempt at mirth... .K.S. A.: Mere melodrama....
R.J.S.: Not for u5....A.F. (Q.) : Thought runs far
too thin... .Le Noy: Write to the author himself.
He was his own publisher and the hook has been
printed,.. .R.R.F.: Can’t hear anything of it....
ITS.: “Sticky-Beak” cHfcsn’t thrill u5,...G.E.L.:
Yarn doesn’t read as if it was true... .A.T.A.: It
doesn’t work.... Brawn v. S.: Don’t understand the
implication. What is it? R.W.M.: The doubt re
Solomon’s legitimacy remains. The priestly writers
for whom Solomon built the temple had to defend
thc-ir patron on whom they depended, and the elab-
orate intensity of their efforts to clear away the
prevailing suspicion is dubious in itself. The men
in skirts protested too much. There was another
effort to conceal a breakage in the line of David
when it was professed that Athaliah didn’t count
her dead grandchildren properly, so that one was
preserved for six years without her knowledge and
to her undoing. Of course Solomon’s murder of his
elder brother was justifiable when you start with
the priestly assumption that it must he justifiable.
The elder brother was very much in the way, and
his plausible stepmother drew attention to him
when he should have lain low W. 8.8.: No use for
the antiquated parable about the women who took
in each other’s washing 5.J.8.: You ask if we are
to go on making laws for ever—if there is no hope
of obtaining the ideal code and then giving Parlia-
mentary wrangling a rest. There isn’t a ghost of
a show that this paper can see—not a ghost the Size
of a germ’s baby.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
T.H.: Tt’s a sail-looking stomach.... P.S.W.: The
rolling sfone is falling out of the picture. Perhaps
he feels he isn’t well drawn.... .Jack 11.: Only 10
years old! Then you have a hatful of years to
study in.... Miss C.: Passed out in silence... .John
R.: Don’t know what it means. It doesn’t matter,
anyhow... .Isaacs: Take your jewels away... .F.L.:
No joy in any of them and one is old Harold M.:
You are only beginning. Study on V.H.C.: Draw-
ings 'too small and finicky, and you don’t seem to
have much sense of form.


Shipping:.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphs’. Cabin ea-de-
Lttxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Lt A..
Tel.—Citv 1246,
4247,
4810.
2,4, 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
via
the Allied Route,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, JULY 9.
VENTURA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Telephone: City 2282. 44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Bunking, Public Companies, Ac.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
lit. (Chairman) ; WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ; Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP,
K.C.M.G.; Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager : J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Hear! Cilice: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital . . . . 480.000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. . . .. .. 247,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since IS9S specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Running, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.; James Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq.; W. 11. Hart, Esq.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
IIKAI) OFFICE ... It It 18 DANE
Branches —Herndon, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £145,000
Directors: MARK SHELDON, Esq., Chairman;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LLD. ; FRANK N.
YARWOOI), Esq.; HERBERT R. LYSAGHT,
Esq.; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq.; lion. F.
JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.
General Manager: C, M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Chief Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. 11. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Thread-needle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 139 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up .. .. .. 1,000.000
Uncalled Capital .. . . . . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,345,702
CHANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
MACDONALD,
HAMILTON 8 CO.
Managing Agents for
Australasian'United Steam Navigation Cu d .
Central Queensland Meat Export Co. Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates Ltd.
Blackheath Collieries Limited.
HEAD OFFICE : BRISBANE.
Skipping, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT. ,
R.M.S. M A KURA, EARLY JULY.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, EARLY AUGUST.
The most beautiful Scenery in the World —the Canadian Rockies—is oil the All-Red Route.
The Prairies, the Great Lakes, Chicago, Niagara Palls and New York can all be visited.
Through bookings to all Canadian, United States and European points.
Stop-overs on the Railways Arranged.
CALL OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS OF THIS ROUTE.
PASSENGERS CAN CHANGE AT HONOLULU INTO A DIRECT STEAMER FOR
SAN FRANCISCO.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
ISLAND TOURS.
Now is the Time to Visit the PACIFIC ISLANDS.
DELIGHTFUL TOURS to
NORFOLK ISLAND and NEW HEBRIDES.
SOLOMON ISLANDS.
PAPUA and RABAUL.
Trips of Four, Five and Seven Weeks’ Duration.
BURNS, PHILP § CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
Established 1817,
■*Wk
Directors:
£3,912,440
£3,100,000
£3,912,440
£10,924,880
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
F. B. S. Falkiner, Esq., M.H.R.
The lion. Resrinald .1. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The ITon. James T. Walker.
Auditor.* ; S.~E. Laidlev, Esq. ;A. G. Milson, Esq. General Manager: Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
Head Office— George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
340 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Commonwealth
B HEAD OFFICE
JanlfSiKtolia
SYDNEY.
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain),
also London (2), and A.I.F. Camps in England.
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and SAVINGS BANK AGENCIES at 2776 Post Offices
throughout Australia, Papua, New Britain, Solomon Islands,
and The Pacific.
JAMES KELL,
Deputy Governor
DENISON MILLER,
Governor
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Capital paid up
Reserve Fund
Reserve Capital
- £2,000,000
- £2,080,000
- £2,000,000
£6,080,000
Established 1831.
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. H. E. liater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses, M.L.C.
J. W\ Macarthur Onslow,
Esq. M.L.A.
0. E. Friend, Esq.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
lion. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 843 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Branch: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C.
London Bankers—The Rank of England: The London County and Westminster and
Parr’s Bank, Limited; Barclays Bank, Limited.
AND AGENTS ANI) CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Shtpptn*
Sydney Inter-State
Sub-Committee.
INTER-STATE SAILINGS SUSPENDED
OWING TO STRIKE.
Huddart Parker L|m
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND. —Regular sail-
ings between Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand
ports and vice versa; particulars to be obtained on
application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to
Hobart and vice versa every three weeks. Between
Melbourne and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Ceorge Street, Sydney.
“I"HE North Coast Steam
1 Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade rega-
in rlv to:—
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMEI JCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
I Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
i the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
I to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
! thence to Tweed Beaus —steamer to Munvillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 11s.; second-class rail and steerage on
steamer, £4 ss.
; For Guide and all particulars apply: —
i BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE FINE TWIN-SCREW STEAMER
“LEVUKA,” 6500 tons,
maintains a service every four weeks from .Melbourne
and Sydney.
The “Levuka” is fitted with wireless and with
every modern convenience for the comfort of passen-
gers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 26
days, and from Sydney 18 days. Passengers desiring
a more extended tour can travel by fe.S. “Anira,”
which connects at Suva.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street,
Melbourne, or Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
Favorite Mail Route to Japan, with connections
at Japan to
EUROPE AND AMERICA.
Tours can be arranged to China, Japan, Korea,
by this Line.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN.
Via Brisbane, Townsville, Thursday
Island, Zamboanga, Manila, Hongkong.
Nagasaki, Kobe, and Yokohama.
Passengers must obtain from the Quarantine
Authorities permits to leave New South Wales at least
three days before the steamer’s departure.
SPECIAL NOTICE. —All Passengers proceeding to
JAPAN must have their Passports vised by the Con-
sul-General for Japan in accordance with the regula-
tions of the Japanese Government
Full particulars of Sailing Dates, Passage Money,
Freights, etc., apply
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LTD.,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
The Bank of Adelaide
(INCOKPOBATED 1865.)
SYDNEY OFFICE: 105 PITT STREET.
Paid-up Capital . . . • • • £500,000
Reserve Fund . . . . • . • 570,000
£1,070,000
Uncalled capital . . .. .. 125,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 625,000
£1,820,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 85 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADENIIALL STREET,. E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts anil Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted. , ..
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL £500,000
Fire Insurances
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
Marine Risks
ture. &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
BARTIN HAIGH, General Manager.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every I ear.
Although over £750,000 was paid dur-
ing 1918 in War Claims alone, the
Cash Bonus Distributed for 1918
exceeded. . . . • •
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about
Accumulated Funds exceed
Annual Income over
£1,000,000
£1,700,000
£39,000,000
£5,500,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H W. APPEIILY, General Manager.


The GBD is a pipe of per-
feet balance, cool and sweet
to smoke. Its all-round good
quality entitles it to be
designated
THE PERFECT PIPE
Many popular shapes.
Sold everywhere.
What Miss Stella Power
proved is important to
• >
music - lovers.
This is the picture of Miss Stella
Power, Australia’s rising young-
singer, recently returned from
America.
What other famous artists proved
in America and elsewhere Miss
Stella Power proved in Australia—
that The NEW EDISON undeni-
ably re-creates the living voice.
At the Sydney Conservatorium of'
Music on Friday night, 6th June,
Miss Power sang in comparison with
The NEW EDISON re-creation of
her voice—and the audience could
not distinguish the Re-creation from
the original, living voice.
888
The NEW EDISON
—the only Re-creation instrument
—is, in fact, the only instrument in the world that could successfully undergo such
a test as this.
The Sydney Morning Herald reports: “Miss Stella Power sang Rossini’s
‘Bel Reggio’ with all the fluency, even charm of timbre, and easy production which
make her vocalisation remarkable in coloratura music She was able to take up
the Strain of melody without any perceptible break in, or increase of, the sound.
This feat was repeated in Henschel’s ‘Spring,’ Scott’s ‘Blackbird Song’ and
Dvorak’s ‘Songs My Mother Taught Me.’ The last two were sung to the crowded
audience in the darkness, and when the lights were turned up it was discovered
that Miss Power had. .. .vanished This experiment, known as the Edison tone-
test, is obviously the most severe to which any re-creation can be put.”
To liave perfect Re-creation, not only must Edison records be used
but also The NEW EDISON. This combination only affords TRUE
Re-creation.
Write immediately for full details of this most wonderful of instruments,
post free.
THOMAS A. EDISON LTD., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
1
spendable Guns
>e 7^
JX
4*sk,
OF STERLING VALUE. RIGID and RELIABLE.
WE HAVE AN UNRIVALLED SELECTION.
COMBINED
KNIFE, FORK & SPOON,
all matai, vary strong.
Price 2/« post free.
"SUNOL” Pocket Lighters.
Better than Matches.
Price 21- each, post free.
Harrington and Richardson’s
D.8.8.L. Gun, IG-, 20- or 28-gauge, top
lever, care hardened frame, 26in. barrels, both choke;
weight about s£lb Freisrht paid,
£5/10/-
Smoke Sunol Tobacco
Awarded 4 Gold Medals-
2oz. Sample 1/2, Post Free.
*123. C. H. Crawford’s D.8.8.L. Gan,
12-gauge, tup lever, double bolt, 30in. barrels, left
choke, pistol grip, walnut stock, scroll engraved, bar locks.
Greener cross-bolt, nitvo proof; weight of 12-gauge about 7 Jib,
Freight
paid, J£ll/11/'
“Koolah” Shaving Sticks
Delightful to Use. 7d. each, post free.
Owing: to market fluctuations!
prices here quoted are subject
to change without notice.
883.
1911
barrel, 28in., full
Magazine holds 5
Weight 7slb ....
Winchester Automatic Repeating Shot-Gun,
Model, 12-gauge, walnut stock, pistol grip, nickel-steel
choke, take-down system, chambered for 2jin. shells,
cartridges, rubber butt-plate. 11 It ■mi
Freight paid,
POWDER
Just arrived large shipment of Gunpowder.
You are advised to make an early purchase.
AUSTRAL 3/9 lb.
DIAMOND GRAIN 5/- lb.
DUPONT’S SmoKeless for Guns 10/0 lb.
DUPONT'S Smokeless for Rides 11/9 lb.
E. C. SMOKELESS 11/9 lb.
PLEASE NOTE —Powder cannot be posted.
MINIMUM FREIGHT on any quantity
packed up to 281 b. is 10/- in N.S.W.
We Repair AH Kinds of Guns and Rifles
IMU
m-
: mi
mmm
mmrn,
826. Midland Gun Co.’s D.8.8.L.
Pigeon Gun, 12-gauge, top action, bar locks.
•Greener cross-bolt, high-filed rib. 23- or 30-inch steel
barrels, both choke, D. & E. forr-erd side clips, chambered for 2|in. cartridges,
beautifully engraved, weight about 7 Jib Freight paid,
£l4/14/
£»
SSEil®
■jiijMMimniimai
834. Remington Browning Automatic Repeating
Shot Gun, 12-gauge, slide grip, steel barrels, take-down
system, magazine holds six cartridges;
weight about 71b Freight paid,
£ll/111-
Harrington and
Richardson’s
5.8.8. L. Gun,
12-gauge,
top action, solid case-hardened locks, decarbonised steel barrel, 30in. pistol
grip, walnut stock ; weight about 641 b. Gun can be taken apart, same as an
ordinary Double-barrel Gun.
B 2 Auto-Ejector, 45/
Postage—2/6 N.S.W.:
4/8 Inter-State.
1C
LI/
7WSTR7ILm'S GREATEST
SPORTS OUTFITTERS’
and TOBACCONISTS
City Sports Depot
99 Kind St, also at
Newcastle l Brisbane


Best for Children
and Grown Folks too
Little Miss MARJORIE LEE (from a photo.)
Dear Sirs, —
Being a very loyal user of
your wonderful remedy, Dr.
Sheldon’s New Discovery, I
am sending you a photograph
of my little girl, Marjorie Dee,
who has been kept free from
severe colds for three years
through my giving her Dr.
Sheldon’s New Discovery.
When nearly two years old
she got a severe cold, which
developed into pneumonia,
and I very nearly lost her.
She was wrapped in wadding
for weeks, and only recovered
with the closest care. As her
dear father died from pneu-
monia, when she was but live
months old, you can imagine
how frightened I am of it. I
feel that through Dr. Shel-
don’s New Discovery I am
doing my utmost to prevent
the dreaded disease. When
she is now threatened with a
cold I give her Dr. Sheldon’s
at once, and this keeps off
the bad symptoms, her cold
generally passing lightly
away.
You may use this letter in
any way you like, as I would
like everyone to know how
much I think of your lovely
medicine, and how grateful I
am for its benefits.
Yours truly,
(Sgd.) BLANCHE DEE,
Stowport, Burnie, Tasmania.
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
Night or day mother is on the job, she must keep her husband, herself and the children well
and happy. She has her little helpers, and the best of all is Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery for
coughs and colds. When mother appears with Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery in her hand, coughs
and colds disappear from the household. In the dead of night they work together, arresting
baby’s croupy cough; in the morning they frighten away sonny’s cold in the head before he
leaves for school. When Sis gets measles mother and Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery keep her safe
and comfy ; and dad s asthma has left him altogether since mother introduced him to Dr.
Sheldon’s New Discovery.
As to mother herself—oh, she hasn't time to be ill, so Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery takes
care of her on the very first sign of a cold. For health and happiness in any household Dr.
Sheldon’s New Discovery and mother are the very best ever. New Discovery, 1/6 and 3/-.
saio
a kv
mom
% m
I
W
W,
1 Jl 4
fyf^Westclox
gIG BEN, is a
household word
because he is a clock
of his word. He runs
on time, he rings on
time, he stays on time.
These are family traits.
All Westclox alarms run
true and ring true. They
are all good looking. You
can always tell them by
the name Westclox on
the dial of each clock.
A patented method of con-
struction is largely responsible
for their success —a method
that insures a high standard
of quality.
Western Clock Co. -makers of UDestclox
Big Ben 17/6, Baby Ben 17/6, America 7/6, Sleep-Meter 10/6, Boyproof Watch 7/6
La Salle. IIL. U. S. A. Factories at Peru, 111
11A1
9\
10
5
9
L r | _ . -
I is
8
7 b 5
jSsi
Three Feathers Inn.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
FILL up again, for there’s mirth in the
can ;
There’s ale and enough for an
honest troth ;
Handle your drink I ke a gentleman (
And bury tlie nose-tip w T ell in the froth .
’S blood, shall men who are thrice well met
Sip at the rim like a cambric girl,
While the ale of England is brown and wet,
And the white edge show’s where a lip may
curl ?
Pledge you, gentlemen, here’s to fun,
And ' a w’ide ale-passage a-down our
, throats!
To a night w r ell finished that’s well begun;
To our horses, steaming above their oats .
To eyes of blue and to eyes of brown ;
To bridled tongues and the bridle rein .
To a fair safe riding to London town,
And a Heaven or Hell where we meet
again!
Fill up the fiddler! Pot-boy, bring
Flagons of ale that are bright and long ;
For a tight gut makes for a taut gut-string,
And a true string makes for a well-sung
song; .
While the ale flow’s in must the song w’ell
out!
Faith, never was stomach could hold the
lot!
So, drinks for the fiddler, turn about;
Lud ! what a sw’allow’ the man has got!
Hurry the catch from a well-blown lung !
Oh, hang me high, there is noise_ to spare,
Though Denny the devil is w’ell-nigh sprung
And whispers a wengh at the bend o’ the
stair!
Marry the lilt to the lifting legs,
To the heart’s high beat and the stamping
feet,
Till the tankards rattle among their pegs,
And the townfolk gape in the lanterned
street.
Let the townsman stare an he feels the need,
Or hie him aw’ay to his fat wife’s bed.
“Life is to live” is the toss-pot creed,
And a drunkard hale beats a parson dead.
While the brown ale washes away all care,
Faith, w’e’U swizzle it well in the toss-pot’s
way,
And a stretch o’ the legs and a nod in a
chair
Is the couch we ask till the break o’ day.
To horse! to horse! for the morn is up,
And the grey cock crow’s on the frosty
fence;
The wine glow’s down from the stirrup-cup,
And the urchins brawl for the dusty pence.
Away, with the slipping and spark of hoofs,
The clink o’ the spur and the creak of
girth ;
Far over the rise by the old red roofs,
Where the years are flowing across the
earth.
Fill up asrain ! Let me drain a glass
In a silent toast to the stalwart days;
For the new years dawm and the old years
pass,
And the hoof-beats die dow’n the shadowed
ways.
So shall I drink, though the feast is past;
Yet Fancy may stoop for the withered
crumbs!
A deep draught, host, an it be the last;
And one for old Hodge, there, rubbing his
thumbs !
ENGLAND.
BOYCE BOWDEN.
Alibi.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HE was the loveliest child in the whole
of His Majesty’s Territory of New
South Wales —an astonishingly lovely
child. The infant in the soap poster of
some seventy years later was a fat-headed
little lout compared with that angelic baby.
And he was as good as he was beautiful —
which was altogether strange, unnatural and
inexplicable when his parentage and ances-
try is taken into account.
His father was essentially a Bad Man, and
his mother was a Vicious ITemale. The capi-
tal letters are in the nature of a quotation,
since that is the way that grieving gentle-
woman, Elizabeth Macquarie, wrote them in
the old diary, which still smells faintly of
lavender and is such a tender monument of a
good woman.
Of the Badness of Peter Dibney, prisoner
of the ■ Crown, there was never any
question. No London magistrate ever
really required evidence when the lad
Peter was arraigned before him for
picking nockets, or robbing drunken men,
or looting costers’ barrows, or forcibly and
violently taking pennies from innocent babies
who had been despatched to public-houses for
beer. Every aspect of him was conclusive
proof of his capacity for crime and of his
indisputable guilt. And when he had gradu-
ated in villainy and come under the con-
sideration of 12 truthful, good men, those
excellent citizens had no difficulty whatever
in arriving at a decision as to whether a
young man with a face like that had, or had
not, done the deed that had brought him
into the dock. It required nothing short
of a most conclusive alibi —which Peter had
only once succeeded in having established,
and never afterwards forgot—to save him
from conviction. If, in the future, you
were to study the death-masks of Charles
Peace, of F. B. Deeming, of Francis Butler,
or of William Hohenzollern and his eldest
son, you might imagine that a countenance
which blended the characteristics of all these
master-criminals would not give you very
much trouble in agreeing with 11 others .ns
to the impossibility of its possessor being
other than guilty of whatever crime was
alleged against him.
And if you had seen his mother at the
time when Major-General and Mrs. Mac-
quarie knew her—frowsy, coarse, wicked and
unclean—you would make it a life-long
puzzle as to why the beautiful child did not
develop into a loathsome dipsomaniac, or
was not congenitally diseased. It was a
strange play of Nature that he never de-
veloped any tcndenev to alcoholism and
never exhibited the lightest symptom of
syphilis. A sure proof that the rules under
which Nature plays her game are a good
deal more complicated than they appear to
Kp % ,
The Hon. Alfred Dibney, M.L.C., died in
Melbourne in 1876, universally respected and
beloved —even by his bankers and the only
thing about him of a suspicious nature was
that he was not entitled to his Christian
name, though he was not himself aware of
this any more than was any other citizen
of the southern city. He had been accus-
tomed to being addressed and reviled by his
parents, from his earliest recollection, as
“Al” or “Ally,” and it was not unreasonable
to suppose that such diminutive might very
well have stood for Alfred. He was far
too early in the century to have been named
after the German gentleman who came to
live at Windsor.
But it did not, for when the Rev. Samuel
Marsden, having ordained that every child in
the settlement whose parents figured in the
muster-roll as being members of the Estab-
lished Church should be duly and properly
baptised, held his great christening festival,
in 1814, at Parramatta, Peter Dibney, acting
as sponsor- for his offspring, and giving the
slatternly mother no say in the matter, upon
being asked the name under which the child
was to make its pilgrimage through this vale
of tears, had responded: “Hallyboy, y'r
rev’rence. Hallyboy.”
Mr. Marsden stared at him, half suspect-
ing some villainous levity.
“Hally—what?” he asked. “Hallyboy!
Damme, constable” —Peter had been made a
convict constable at Norfolk Island on the
ancient principle of thieves and thieves —
“damme, what kind of a name is this?”
“ Tis th’ nime I vants for t’give tli’ kinchin,
y’r honor. ’Tis a mighty good monniker,
too!”
“But what the devil does it mean?” roared
the Senior Chaplain. “What’s the meaning
of it?”
Peter looked up at him furtively.
“Well —I dunno, y’r rev’rence. I don’
alt’getker know wot th’ meanin ’ of it mebbe.
But ’tis a rare good thing to have about ye
in time o’ trouble.”
“Hallyboy?”
“Yuss, y’r rev’rence. Y’r rev’rence knows
’em. S’posin’ hi was hup afore y’r rev’rence
—s’y for priggin’ a vipe, or sich —an’ hi ’ad
a hallyboy all noice and ready for y’r rev’-
rence, v’y, y’r rev’rence ’d s’y: ‘Case dis-
missed —call th’ nex’ case.’ Wouldn’t ye
now, y’r rev’rence?”
Mr. Marsden looked down at the fine child
nestling against his breast, a chubby hand
tugging at his bands, and a light of compre-
hension came into his bulldog face.
“Haw, haw, haw!” His great guffaws
echoed through St. John’s. “Oh, good—very
good, my man. Alibi! To be sure. A
good thing to have about the house! Oh,
excellent —oh, damme, excellent! Right you
are, Dibney. Alibi he shall be. Haw, haw,
haw !”
“’Tis th’ on’y thing ever done me any good,
y’r rev’rence,” mumbled Constable Dibney.
But, sad to say, in the year 1818, Dibney,
sen., having come again into the gaol-gang,
it was impossible to prove that he was else-
where after he had had occasion to split the
overseer’s skull open with a spade—for the
simple reason that he was shackled to a
bullock-chain at the time when the gang
was slouching gaolward in the evening.
Those solid links could not be dematerial-
ised, and Peter at once recognised that the
only effective form of defence within his
knowledge was denied him. So he spared
himself the trouble of attempting any, and
in due course he danced upon nothing, just
about where the Barley Mow Hotel stands
in Sydney now’, at the corner of Park and
Castlereagh streets.
In the following v’eek his Excellency the
Governor and his good lady made the
acquaintance of the angel-child whom Peter
had left behind, and whom his sluttish
mother had abandoned.
Mrs. Macquarie had invaded the office of
her hard-working lord and had insisted upon
separating him from his despatches, despite
the cannily polite protests of Mr. John
Thomas Campbell, the Governor’s secretary.
“ ’Tis very w’ell, Mr. Campbell. Mr. Mac-
quarie must take some air. Indeed. I in-
sist upon it —or I shall have him sleepless
on my hands again.” And she marched her
good man out of the house.
They wandered dowm across the vallev of
Farm Cove and the new Botanic Gardens,
and across to the point where the good lady’s
“chair” had been hewn out of the sandstone
a. couple of years before. And they found
that the seat was occupied.
A little ragged boy was playing in it, and
with stones,. sticks and a piece of string was
busily building what Mrs. Macquarie took to
be one of those houses, or castles, which chil-
dren delight in making wherever there are
sand and stones.
“Aha.” said his Excellency, “one of our
young Cornstalks, my love—a little Colonial,
engaged in the mimic development of this
great country. Good!”
He searched in his breeches pocket for a
penny. The Governor himself was a
Builder.
The child paused in his play, and looked
round, as he heard Macquarie’s voice. He
smiled up at t^m.
“Oh. Lachlan—oh, my dear Macquarie—
did you ever see such a little love? Oh,
what a sweet child !” said Mrs. Macquarie.
“Come here, my little man—come and speak
to us.”
He was, indeed, a lovely boy. A mop of
flaxen hair framed a face that was dirty and
most beautiful. _ Big blue eyes, innocent and
serious, and with a twinkle of laughter in
them, regarded the Great Man and his wife
without fear. He looked on the Governor as
he would have looked at God —happily, and
with equality. God would have been less
struck with this than was the Supreme
Being of New South Wales and its depend-
encies.
“Well, well!” he said. “A pretty boy,
my love—a remarkably fine child. An in-
dependent little fellow!”
(Continued on next page.)


WHERE THE DANGER LIES.
Many People Suffer from Kidney Disease, but do not know it. That’s the danger.
Th e reason Kidney Disease
is so generally fatal is that it
comes on unnoticed and
often gains a firm hold on
the sufferer before he knows
what is wrong with him.
o
D oan’s Backache Kidney
Pills should be used imme-
diately there is any such sign
of kidney disease as Back-
ache, Dizzy Spells, Water
Troubles, Gravel, Rheumatic
Pains, Heart Irregularity,
Sleeplessness, Irritability,
Waterv Swellings in the
J o
Ankles or Beneath the Eyes,
Lumbago. D oan’s Backache
o
Kidney Pills cleanse the
kidneys and assist them in
their great work of filtering
the blood.
v»*«ge-
V >
LgV
w
u*
ft
n
t.
V
wmr
"Every Picture Tells a Story.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold at 2/9 per
bottle at, all Chemists and Stores, or from Foster-
McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Cured to Stay Cured.
SYDNEY TESTIMONY.
SIX YEARS CURED
Mr. Jas. Wilson, 17 Little Buckingham Street,
Sydney, says:—“For a long time I suffered torture
from backache and kidney trouble. The pains in my
back were very severe, and I have been so bad that I
could not attend to my work, as every movement
caused positive torture. The kidney secretions were
affected, being thick and cloudy, and containing a red
sediment. I was also subject to dizzy feelings, and
could not sleep properly at night. Nothing I took
seemed able to give me any permanent relief; but one
day when I was feeling very bad I heard good reports
of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, so I sent for some,
and after taking seven bottles I was cured. This
remedy not only banished the backache, but strength-
ened and toned up my kidneys and improved my
general health. It is two years since I was cured,
and I have had no trouble with my kidneys since.”
Mr. Wilson confirms the above four years later:—
“I am still well, and have had no return of backache
and kidney trouble since Doan’s Pills cured me six
years ago.”
FOUR YEARS CURED
Mrs. M. (Haynes, 77 Rawson-street, Waverley,
Sydney, says:—“Hav'ng been cured of backache by
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, some little time ago,
it is with every confidence that I recommend this
remedy to other sufferers. Previous to taking Doan’s
Pills, I was subject to severe pains across the small
of my back, which were very trying when I moved
about much. Dizzy attacks also troubled me, and I
had no energy. One day a friend advised me to
take Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and, as before
stated, this splendid medicine soon fixed me up, and
I have been free of backache ever since. I need say
no more, the facts speak for themselves.”
Four years later Mrs. Haynes says:—“My cure
has proved a permanent one, no sign of my old com-
plaint having returned since Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills cured me over four years ago.”
Backache
Kidney
I
In some measure, his Excellency reflected
with satisfaction, the boy was undoubtedly a
product of wise administration —the result
of the mating of some worthy couple. lie
produced the penny, and held it out, great
benevolence lighting his sombre, rugged
countenance. Dignity, sternness, and benevo-
lence—never humor —were Macquarie’s facial
expressions. “Come and speak to us, my
little boy,” he said.
The child came down to them, and Mrs.
Macquarie went upon one knee, and opened
her motherly arms. He came fearlessly to
her, and she kissed him impulsively. The
tall, spare figure of the Governor, in blue
undress uniform, contrasted strikingly with
the kneeling woman and the beautiful babe
that she gave one kind hug to, and then
released, that she might the better admire
him. Behind them were the waters of the
harbor, placid and glowing in the sunset,
and the dark hills on the north side
stretched, peaceful and quiet, from east to
west, wooded and silent.
“What is your name, dear,” she asked
him tenderly. “Oh, Lachlan, ’tis a child of
fairyland! What is your name, sweet-
heart?”
“Hallyboy.”
“Hallyboy ! What a strange name! Ally,
I suppose—Alfred?”
“Naw —Hallyboy.”
“Is that what your father calls you, my
boy?” inquired Macquarie.
“Nawi —farver use t’ call me a
sfinkin’ fickle borst’d.” The awful expres-
sion was lisped sweetly into Mrs. Mac-
quar'e’s face.
“Oh, Lachlan!’' she gasped.
“Tut, tut, my lad—you mustn’t use such
words,” frowned the astonished Governor.
“Here’s a penny for you ; but you mustn’t
speak like that.”
“ Ain’t I a -—- — : fickle borst’d?”
asked the child, in a puzzled fashion. “Muv-
ver said I rvas, too.”
“My child —my poor child,” whispered the
scandalised lady.
“Well, well, my little fellow” —Macquarie
hastily endeavored to change the subject—
“what are you making here? What is this
pretty house you are building? Er—is it
the new church, or the Commissariat Offices?
Or is it a little house for yourself to live
in?” He pointed with his cane to the stones
and sticks below the inscription.
The boy shook his curls again. “Naw,”
he said, “ ’tain’t no ’ouse. ’Tis a
gallus.”
“Great Heavens—a gallows!” gasped the
Governor. “A gallows!”
He looked closely at the stones. There
were two big ones, surmounted by two
smaller, and across the top rested a stick
with a string tied to the middle of it, and,
dangling from its lower end was a short
piece of wood as large as Macquarie’s
middle finger.
“My child, my child,” whispered Mrs.
Macquarie. “Oh, why do you play such
horrid things. Oh, Lachlan, how dreadful!"
“ ’Tain’t drefful, missus. Dat’s farver—
dey ’ung *im like dat. a Chooseday. A -
good ’angin’, muvver said it was. I liked
it. Please Mister Gov’nor, are you gom to
’ang any more of ’em soon?”
“Lord save us!” muttered Macquarie.
His wife stood up, white-faced and trem-
bling. The child looked up at them, in
innocent wonder.
“Oh, Lachlan— oh, my love! God forgive
us —is this what we do?” She began to
weep gently.
“Damme!” groaned the Governor —and
his eyes were moist also.
J. H. M. ABBOTT.
The Ghouls.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AS the doctor drove his car round the
.corner from Smith-street into the
main road the man in the shabby
black suit hailed him, and he drew up.
“I’m glad to see you, Doctor,” the shabby
man said; "I got some cigars that I fancy
are good, and, knowing you’re a judge, I d
like you to sample one. Come in.”
The doctor followed him into a double-
fronted shop. One window was more or
less gay with flowers; the other was painted
over and bore a plain sign: “James Coffan,
Undertaker.”
“Think they’re good, eh?” said Coffin.
“Better take a few. Bad' case you’ve got
in Smith-street, they tell me?”
“Pretty bad,” answered the doctor. I m
afraid it’s a case requiring your services.”
“The question is, is it my services?” said
the undertaker, gloomily. “Oake, Ivasket
and Co. are getting all the business going
these days. People seem to have no idea
of encouraging the local man. Now, I don’t
go outside the district for anything; and, if
I was dying, I’d see to it that the local
man got my business. But people don’t
have any thought. They just die without
recognisin’ their dooty.”
“It may be the time-payment,” suggested
the doctor.
“Well, I’m offerin’ terms now,” said the
undertaker moodily. “I hope you’ll do what
you can for me, doctor.”
“I don’t see what I can do,” protested the
doctor. “Of course, if they ask”
“No, but look here, doctor. I’ve been a
patient of yours for a long time. Still, I
wouldn’t ask you to do anything over the
odds: but this Oake-Ivasket people’s repre-
sentative is pushin’ business, so I go to
push a bit myself. You might say that a
few flowers would brighten up your patient,
and that you’d send them along. I'll pro-
vide the flowers”
“But the patient is unconscious and
wouldn’t see them,” said the doctor.
“Well, does that matter?” asked the under-
taker. You could say that even the sugges-
tion of flowers might help; and they’d think
a lot of your kindness in sendin’ ’em.”
“But, how would that help you?" said
the doctor.
“Why, my boy takes along a delivery-
book with the flowers, and leaves a docket
which has my name on top—‘Received from
James Coffin, Florist and Undertaker, 27
Hirh-street.’ It’s not the sort of thing that
thrusts the undertaking business on a family;
yet it introduces the name —it introduces the
name.”
So it came about that the Banks family
in Smith-street received the flowers promised
by the doctor, accompanied by a delivery
note bearing the name of James Coffin,
Undertaker.
Oake. Ivasket and Co.’s agent tracked
the flowers to Smith-street, and was per-
turbed. Also he guesspd from the atmo-
sphere that there was an opening for busi-
ness in the house of Banks.
That was why a sombre cart with the
name of Oake, Ivasket and Co. passed down
Smith-street, and back again after a decent
interval. Coffin, who could not help look-
ing into Smith-street occasionally, saw it;
and a cart with his name on it went down
U' * street, and back again, that same after-
noon.
baker, who also supplied the
Bankses, casuallv mentioned that he had
seen a first-class funeral in an adjoining
street —“one of Coffin’s,” he added. A green-
grocer, commenting upon the trouble that
sickness occasioned in a house, recalled the
illness that led to his wife’s death, and
referred to the kindness and sympathy that
Mr. Coffin, who arranged the funeral, had
displayed. Until then Coffin had considered
that the balance due on that affair was a
bad debt.
The jealousy caused by this struggle for
the impending business brought them fre-
quently to Smith-street, where they walked
past the Bankses’ house and frequently
past one another. Their nods were curt and
unfriendly.
The Oake-Kssket represt ntatii e struck
a good idea when he offered to print the
handbills announcing the annual social of
the local Band of Hope. Tne cost was a
mere nothing; and he knew that at least
one of the handbills, decorated with the
advertisement of Oake, Kasket and Co.,
Funeral Directors (John Pusher, representa-
tive), would reach the Banks mansion, be-
sides probably catching other business. Cof-
fin. in desperation, answered this move by
publishing a libel about one of Oake-
Ivasket’s hearse-horses having dropped dead
once during a funeral.
Pusher was meditating revenge as he
walked to Smith-street, when he observed
the signs of a funeral —first, groups of curi-
ous, awed children, then the hearse and three
or four mourning-carriages. The interest
centred round the house of Banks.
The thing rather surprised him. As usual
he had read the funeral announcements, and
he had not noticed any mention of one in
Smith-street.
“Coffin shall pay fer this, the ghoul!” he
muttered.
But to his amazement he observed Coffin
standing off somewhat from the show, watoh-
iu" proceeding disconsolately. On the spur
of the moment he went up and jorned him.
“Who’s running this, Mr. Coffin ?” he
asked.
Coffin shook his head, slowly and dismally.
They stood together watching the proceed-
ings, and as the procession dragged out •of
the street they followed its progress with eyes
expressing genuine sadness From the house
of death, which had been left to the .Bankses
handmaid and the aunt she had invited over
to enjoy the funeral, they were observed. .
“Look at them, auntie!" . said the girl.
“They’ve been ’aunting the ouse fer days .
Oh, it’s been horrible! The Government
ought to stop ’em !”
And then she laughed.
“They might have saved themselves a lot
of trouble if they’d known that the missuses
brother-in-law was in the undertaking busi-
ness.”
HAMER.
Sanctuary.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THERE is sweet sanctuary in this quiet
I love 8 the warm blue sky and sea ;
the way ,
The sun-drugged gulls like dreaming floweis
sway
There in the sea’s vast bowl; the tossing
spray
Which, high upflung by breezes from the
shore
Gleams like a thousand gems by sunshine lit,
Through which swift glimpses of the heavens
flit,
Before it lightly falls to merge once more
Into the parent seas, content to sleep.
Eternally their lonesome vigils keen.
In this far place, the mighty cliffs whose
steep , _ ,
Forms guard like images the wayward deep.
With pristine freshness here awakes the
morn. „
No grating sounds of strife the dawnwind
brings
From haunts of man : taintless the great sun
swings;
In silent splendor are the new days born.
And when in towns at noon like despots bide
Tumult and Restlessness, and. swelling wide
Like some wild sea at flood, the roaring tide
Of no ; se drowns ail repose, this Great Out-
side
Knows deep tranquillity, no footsteps rush
Grim dust-cloaked buildings by at burning
noon
To spoil the wondrous calm ; here cool waves
croon '
And soft bush-cries alone disturb the hush.
And oh! in towns at dusk no wonder lies!
Where ugly lamps glare out and red wine
flies , ....
And Pleasure holds loud sway, then swiftly
dies
The twilight charm; but by these starry skies
And waters blue, when sinks at last the light
Peace makes a dwelling-place; soft winds to
Entice, and, chanting low, the languid deep
Murmurs in benediction to the night.
N.S.W.
NIYA BECKE.


m
m
...
WESTINCHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
WmiNCHOUSE BRAKE
CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
Queensland Agents— HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Vlotorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
M
m
o
Hi
Economy—
The Watchword of
Clydesdale Operation
BARS of experience in petrol engine building has
resulted in perfecting the Clydesdale Motor Lorry,
wherein each gallon of petrol used exerts the
greatest amount of power for the operation of the Lorry.
Every day practical use in operating large fleets where
economy was essential, was responsible for this design.
The maximum amount of energy is obtained from the
minimum amount of petrol.
H. D. VAN BRUNT, Factory Representative, P.O. Box 2093, Sydney,
AUSTRALIA.
New South Wales Distributors: HARDY-JOHNSTON MOTOR CO., 54-56
Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
New Zealand Distributors: INGLIS BROS. & CO. LTD., Harris Street,
WELLINGTON.
T. E. SHIEL & CO., Stafford Street, DUNEDIN.
THE CLYDE CARS COMPANY,
44 Whitehall Street, New York, U.S.A.
Cable Address: OBOMOTOR.
SAFEGUARD YOUR HEALTH
QT J.Collis Browne’s
CWorodyae
The Original and Only Gennine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOB
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
ami. in the Cough of BKONCIiiTIS and
CONSUMPTION.
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
___
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery .
0/ all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/S, S/-, o/-.
Uade in England.
A SEASONED SHAVER.
“Many’s the Razor I have tried, but there’s none
like the ‘Plum.’ ” So spoke a seasoned shaver, and
his experience is echoed by thousands of others.
Join the big crowd who swear by
THE “PLUM” RAZOR.
PRICE 10/6 —POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 16/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
The above makes a handsome present.
“Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/2 Tube, post free.
All the above Post Free. Send for our Illustrated Price List.
CRfIIC & AITKEN,
654 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
\-
\
Tried and Trusted—
The “PLUM”
Razor.
BE PERSUADED
to try Beeohaffi's Pills! All who have had experience of this preparation
unhesitatingly endorse the view long ago expressed that “ Beeeham’s
Pills are Worth a Guinea a Box ”. This is what people say who have
taken them —who have proved their wonderful value for themselves.
Their opinion should go far to persuade you to try Beeeham’s Pills also.
They have cured others and will cure you. They have brought the
desired relief in multitudes of cases—is it not highly probable that they
will do the same for you? Beecham’s Pills grew into fame years ago as
a digestive medici ie of the greatest value. They have maintained their
high reputation through the passing years, and, at the present time, they
are relieving, and curing vast numbers of people who suffer from
dyspeptic troubles all over the world. If you happen to be one of those
who need a tonic, purifying and cleansing medicine be persuaded
TO TRY
BEECHM’S PILLS.
Prepared only by THOMAS BEECHAM, St Helens, England.
Sold in boxes, labelled price IOJd (36 pills), (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills)«
Rare you
uptureD
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW: it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL.
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
Try This: Two
Generations Old
And never failed yet to keep the bowels
regular, the temper smooth, the liver active, the
appetite vigorous and healthy. The recipe is:
“Keep Carter’s Little
Liver Pills where you
know where to find them
and don’t wait to be
bilious. They’re
a pleasure to
take.” Children
prefer them.
Purely
vegetable.
OOTBB
TTLE
IVER
prui
Small Pill—Small Doaa—Small Prloa.
GENUINE must bear signature
Easy, Easy Pipe-Screwing
Easier pipe-screwing than you ever thought possible—that’s what
“Matchless” Screwing Tackle gives you. Newly designed, it has
easy-cutting features never before offered you, which cannot be
obtained in any other tool.
You don’t know what it means to screw pipe easily unless you have
used Oster “Matchless” Screwing Tackle. A fair trial will convince
you.
Get a “Matchless” from your nearest dealer.
Made in Four Sizes
to Screw Pipes from
Yt, in. to 4in.
Carried in Stock,
with extra parts,
b y ironmongers,
machinery and
hardware and
plumbing supply
houses.
m ;
The Oster Manufacturing Co.,
Cleveland, Ohio , U.S.A.
Australasian Representative—
CHARLES WRIGHT, Turner Chambers, 16 Hunter St., Sydney
[4
“DreadnouaHt” Wire Strainer
10,-
each
Post Free
( Patented )
10/-
Post Free
With Full Particulars
and Illustrated Circular.
The simplicity, lightness and excellence of the
Dreadnought is fully maintained.
Titan Manufacturing Com
SOUTH MELBOURNE .


MAN GROVITE?
LEATHER
BELTINi
Use It! Prove It!
It grips the pulleys and transmits all the
power generated. Prove it on your machinery.
You’ll find it strong, durable and flexible,
ready to tackle the most difficult drive and
; ncrease production. Ask us for more infor-
mation.
Mangrovite Belting Ltd.
(Charles Ludowici, Managing Director),
49 York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney, N.S.W.
Western Australia: Cibb3, Bright & Co., Perth
S’th Australia: John Reid & Sons Ltd., Adelaide
The Right Bright Shafting
And at the Right Bright Shafting Prices, The Trade-mark, “An Eagle on
a Globe,” stands for both.
Take the short cut to Satisfaction and Economy by purchasing your shafting
needs here while prices are in your favor.
Large stocks are available in sizes from i inch to 5 inches. Prompt
delivery given.
Let us quote on your next requirements.
Also write to Department “A” for Booklet, entitled
“Hints to Practical users of Tool Steel.”
The Eagle & Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel,
379-381 Kent Street, Sydney.
Also at Melbourne, Kalgoorlie, Fremantle, W.A.
Chas. A. Atkins & Co., Adelaide. Paul & Gray Ltd., Newcastle.
John Reid & Nephews, Brisbane.
Chemicals Cost L,ess
When Yon Buy from
Us.
We have large stocks of the following:
Caustic Soda, Soda Ash, Bi-carbonate of
Soda, Chloride of Calcium, Sulphide of
Sodium, Chloride of Ammonium.
Naphthaline, Carbolic Acid (98% P a * e
straw), Bichromate Soda and Potash,
French Chalk, Dextrine, Aniline Dyes,
Hematine and Fustic Extracts.
OlES—Whale, Cod and Herring.
Write us for prices and particulars.
JAMES HARDIE and CO., LTD.,
“Asbestos House,”
York & Wynyard Streets, SYDNEY,
’Phone 8456 (4 lines).
581-3 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
30 Currie Street, Adelaide.
GOOD
IS
AUSTRALIAN.
BRONZE
When being turned THIS HIGH-GRADE BEARING
METAL yields a harvest of curly, wire-like scrap, which
denotes that the material is TOUGH, of EVEN GRAIN
and FREE FROM IMPERFECTIONS.
ROBERT C.
304 Pitt .Street,
The House for
This PHOSPHOR BRONZE of OURS is GUARANTEED.
Should it in the turning show the least sign of defect, we
will replace free of charge. LARGE STOCKS of All
Sizes. Special Sizes, to order, supplied in a day or two.
SWAN & CO. Ltd.
SYDNEY,
Motor Engineers* Supplies.
“STAR” Portable Lampless Oil Engines.
These Big-powered Engines are now becoming immensely popular for general Farm and Station work, such as
Woodcutting, Shearing, Chaff cutting, Pumping, etc., and each Engine supplied by us means another well-satisfied
The Price is exceptionally Low for a Portable Engine, viz.
6 -b.h.p. ......... £176 Including
8-b.h.p. £205 Expert
10-b.h.p. . £235 to start.
We can arrange easy Terms, and guarantee satisfaction in every instance.
*'* * 1 ' I DALGETY (SI CO. LTD., Miller’s Point, SYDNEY.
Agents for TANCYES, CLAYTON & SHUTTLEWORTH, WOLSELEY Shearing Machines, TRIUMPH Oil Engines, CANE Milking Machines, etc.
THE
Sheep Shearing: machines.
<4
(mssSZmiii.
inp
Ujrrrm
Qi
Another Record!
X>ast year the sale of the Wolseley
Machine throughout Australia soared
above the big figures of the past.
Wise sheep-owners realise that
shearing with the Wolseley is done
more quickly and efficiently than
with any other machine in use.
DALGETY & GO.
LTD.
Australasian Agents
-AU. BRANCHES.
Laundry Machinery & Supplies
We are now manufacturing and have in stock for
immediate delivery complete Laundry Equipment
of the latest English and American design.
Power Washing Machines, Hydro Extractors, Steam
Mangles, Power Ironing Machines, Hand Ironers, etc.
And ALL SUPPLIES for tHe Laundry Trade.
Call and inspect or write for full descriptive catalog.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD
II
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
.
, .-.r
$
ISM
Extract from fceport of Trial Run of K Class No. 1353 Locomotive
designed and built at Eveleigh, N.S.W.:
“The engine is so designed as to render it independent of pit
attention by the engine crew, and the trial trip was successfully run. ... The
engine is fitted with outside valve gear, Lucy Superheater, Automatic Cooling and
Circulating System . . . and EVERLASTING BLOW-OFF VALVES, which may
be operated whilst running.”
These Valves are manufactured in Australia in all Types and all Metals for all Services by
itotmmMniiffliii
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., Valve Specialists, 350 George Street, Sydney.
WRITE. FOR BOOKLETS, PRICES AND ALL DATA.
