

DEWAR’S —The Spirit of Geniality
R. 6. WATKINS CJO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Secdnd-hand Plants always available.
[we advance
MONEY
ON EASY
TERMS
ON ALL CLASSES OF SECURITY
WITHOUT POSSESSION.
fe' NSWMONT de PIETE -
j c<?r LIMIXED
I s -' 74 Castlereagh 5t.74. Sydney.
CAPITAL &200,000 ‘Phone City 5325
/irancAej *?• 29 King St., Newcastle. NS W - ?ISi7 SwanstohSt.Mei&.Vic
40 Adelaide St.Brisbane.Q.l66 Casttereaijh st,fS9 George St. West, Sydney.
JTus&sce JPejnnete, Gmer’&J Sf'3na<?es’.
£7\
ii
CHROMOL
19
(Trade Mark)
The Super Driving Belt.
The largest mining and smelt-
ing plants use “Chromol,” because
of its proven superiority over all
other Belting.
Sole Makers:
J.C.Ludowici S Son Ltd.
Pioneer Leather Belting Works,
117 York Street, Sydney
Pioneers and
THE
BEST
ra
Of
wM
m
m
V '
vs.
u
a
„
m
£
cz
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
J
TABLETS
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
es
§11
Samples and booklet post free from
THE PARAFFINE COMPANIES INC.
(F. M. Prince, Australasian Manager),
Challis House, Sydney.
A new and revised edition of the
“Referee" is now available,
and will be sent post free on
application to
JOHN LYSAGHT (Australia) LIMITED
S Spring Street, SYDNEY.
the recognised standard
of quality throughout
the Commonwealth.
BEAVER STOUT (Guinness).
ORME, KEIGWIN (Et> CO. LTD., SYDNEY Sole Agent».
m:
■ :•
r
‘‘LANCASHIRE” ELECTRIC MOTORS, f to 100 Alternating
and Direct Current for all Standard Voltages. These are highest type
of British Motors, powerfully built, and made in a variety of types for
every electric power requirement.
Immediate delivery from stock. Obtain particulars from nearest of the branches below.
NOYES BROS.
(SYDNEY) LTD., 115 Clarence Street, Sydney.
(MELBOURNE) PTY., LTD., 499-501 Bourbe Street, Melbourne; and Darling Building, Adelaide.
SELLING AGENTS: J. R. W. GARDAM, Perth; and CHAS, E. BERN AYS. Brisbane.
PL-EASANT AND
A TRUE ANTISEPTIC-
OPAZiOID
TOOTH PASTE.
AUSTRALIA'S BEST.
The Bulletin
Vol.4o—No. 2047.]
[Thursday, May 8, 1919.
PRICE 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


BEFORE THE MIRROR
By “JEANNETTE.”
These are, undoubtedly, days of exceptional nervous strain for one and
all of us. Anxiety, with its beauty-destroying influence, is casting its shadow
over the lives of many of us women, and while perhaps a few —the more
stoical among us —can avoid worrying over past and prospective events, we
may all, with a little care and forethought, succeed in preventing the result
of worrv from being noticeable in our appearance. To these fortunate
few this little chat will, however, be as interesting and instructive as to
those who stand in real need of help in toilet matters, and may be the
means of bringing to their notice some hitherto unknown method retain-
ing or regaining that beauty of face and figure which is the birthright of
every woman. Some of the ingredients mentioned below are, at present, not
generally known to the public, but any good chemist will usually be found to
have a small quantity in stock. ,
• ■
A Beautiful Complexion by Natural Means. —
The secret of a perfect complexion lies in the
continual renewing of the outer cuticle of the
skin. This is Nature’s own method. the
outer skin ns it becomes coarse or shrivelled
must be removed, and an opportunity given
to the liner one beneath to show itself. It is
because the old, dead skin is allowed to re-
main on the face that so many women, and
even young girls, suffer from pimples,
blotches and sallow dull skins. To remove, by
absorption, the dead outer skin, and with it
all blemishes, the use of mercolized wax is
universally reeemmended, ordinary face
creams being powerless for this purpose.
Smear the wax over the face and neck, rub it
gently into the skin, and leave it on all night.
In t lie morning wash it off. using Filenta.
soap and warm water, when all the dyad skin
will be removed with'the wax.. Then apply a
lotion to prevent any trace of greasiuess
being noticeable and to give a peach-ltke
bloom to the skin. A lotion to do this can lie
made up quite cheaply from the following
recipe: Take one ounce* of clemiuite and dis-
solve it in four t.ablespoonfuls of hot water.
Place in a bottle, and when cool apply to the
face' with the fingertips, allowing it to dry on
the skin.
To Remove Blackheads. —Dissolve one effer-
vescing stymol tablet in a glass of hot water,
allow the effervescence to subside, then dip a
small Sponge into the liquid and mop over the
face. Allow it to remain on for a few min-
utes. then wipe off with a towel, and the
blackheads will be entirely removed. To pre-
vent them from re-appearing, use a stymol
tablet in the manner described twice'a week.
How to Shampoo.—Before shampooing the
hair dip the lingers into a little pure olive or
almond oil, and thoroughly massage the scalp.
Then dissolve a teaspoonful of stallax granules
in a clip of hot water. Fill a .basin with warm
water into Which the ends of the hair can
fall, and shampoo the stallax mixture into the
roots in the usual way. Then rinse and dry
by fanning with a pa’lm fan.
Grey Hair.—To restore the color' of grey or
fading hair, take two ounces of concentrated
tammafite, and mix it with three ounces of
bay rum; apply to the hair for several nights,
using a small sponge, and the hair will grad-
ually resume its origlhal color. When the
desired' shade has been obtained, the tamma-
lite lotion should be used about twice a week.
Apply it to tlie roots with an old toothbrush.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
TO WHITEN A BROWN NECK (W.K.).—To
whiten your neck, use jettaline, Get a tube
of this from the chemist and rub a little well
into the skin of the neck; leave it on till nest
morning. Do this regularly every night for
three or, four weeks, and you will find that
the skin will become beautifully clear and
white.
BABY.—You need not lose your pretty com-
plexion. Get a tin of mercolized wax. and
rub a little well into the face every night.
This well remove the dead outer skin and
reveal the. pretty fresh new skin underneath.
Be careful what soap you use, as this is very
Important. I should suggest Pilenta.
MATER—To reduce yourself to your original
weight, get a packet of clynol berries and eat
four daily, one after each meal and one at
bedtime. When once you have returned to
your normal weight you can discontinue
them, as the cure is permanent and not merely
temporary, as so many others are. There is
no need to make any alteration in your diet.
DISAPPOINTED. —I am not surprised that
you have been disappointed in your hair: you
are not using a suitable shampoo. Get a
packet of stallax and.shampoo the hair every
fortnight with this. It will make it soft and
keep it fair. .
NELLIE.—There is nothing more disastrous
to beauty than superfluous hair. In that you
are Tight, but you are wrong in thinking that
there is no permanent cure. Get an ounce or
powdered pheminol and a tube of tekko paste.
These two, used in conjunction, will perma-
nently remove the growth.
GERTIE.—The lotion to which you refer is
made as follows: Get an ounce of clemmite
and mix it with four ounces of warm water.
Allow it to cool, bottle, and dab over the face,
allowing it to dry on the skin. This is far
.superior to powder, and gives a fresli bloom
to the face without the appearance of make up.
MAI SI E.—Yes. the longer your eyelashes the
larger and brighter your eyes will look. To
increase the growth of the lashes rub a little
mennaline into the roots every night. Do this
verv gentlv. but thoroughly, and you will be
delighted With the result. IJ
.CHARM OF MANNER
may be enhanced by beauty of the face. A *
touch of SWAN DOWN gives just that
delicacy and purity to the complexion which,
being scarcely perceptible, is admired the more.
TETLOW’S
SOS
FACE POWDER
Imparts a delicate bloom to
tRe complexion. So 'Pare that
it will not Aarm tRe most
delicate Skin, i '
EfISUSH*7JL o pe " r
PRICE / 2 box
In Five Tints:
White,Cream, Pink.
Flesh and Brunette.
Or Stores. Chemists
First Class Drapery
«• Perfumers everywhere.
Houses
here. /
Wholesale DislribuHng Ageless-
Messrs. ELLIOTT BUGS.. LTD.,
Sydney.
Messrs. WASHINGTON 11. SOUL,
PATTINSON & CO., Sydney.
Messrs. ANTHONY HORDERN AND
SONS LTD., Sydney.
THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.,
Sydney. 1
LONDON WHOLESALE AGENTS!-
Heta f C. Quelch & Co. 4 & 5, Ludgste Sq.. London. £.O.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Austbalasian
Beading Room at the Offices, 115 High llol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
An
After Dinner Pill
Most people eat too much. If
you are a hearty eater help your di-
gestion and take care of the over-
load, by taking one Pinkette, the
little sugar coated laxative pill after
a big dinner.
Pinkettes, the new laxative, are
greatly superior to old fashioned
medicines which over stimulate the
liver and, when their use is stopped,
leave it more torpid than before.
Pinkettes do not upset the stomach
or cause griping.
1/- per bottle at all dealers.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “The Bulletin.’
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.,
SYDNEY. N.5.W.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY* V\
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/3 per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemist*
and Storekeepers throughout the -ta
CHAMPION CURE of the WORUD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1^
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes,
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic.
#Uj
mi
qjfttu
H U
SON
Unlike Cough medicines
Jujubes” do not interfere ''id jJne-
tion. On the contrary, d?- e - v J 1 p r o unties
ficial effect, as their Antiseptic 1 foo(1
prevent abnormal fermentation o.
when taken after meals.
For Coughs, Colds, Swe *
Bronchitis, Influent, «•« ‘ he
Prevention of Consuinjn
Suited for old and J oar) ?-
Sold everywhere in tins. {6
The Red Page
The Borrowed Harp.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Grown sick of town and highway,
Upon a time I strayed
To the house that never was builded,
By the road that never was made;
For there, with ceaseless singing,
The Lord of Magic dwells.
And there is heard the ringing
Of gold and silver bells.
Green harpers harped for ever,
All time the pipers played.
In that house that never was builded,
By that road that never was made ;
And pipe and harp together
They made more minstrelsy
Than birds in sunny weather
That sing on hedge and free.
Now, as I sat and hearkened,
My troubles stemmed and stayed,
In that house that never was builded,
By that road that never was made,
I said : “To stifle sorrow
And fill the. world with mirth,
One little harp I’ll borrow
And play it round the earth.”
Then with my borrowed treasure
As, light of heart, I strayed
From that house that never was builded,
By that road that never was made,
A sudden shadow darkened
On window, wall and door,
And all the songs, I hearkened,
Grew mute for evermore.
There is nor grief nor sorrow,.
Nor as there toil or trade
In that*house that never was builded,
By that road that never was made ;
But, since the world is tragic
With pain and grief and greed.
My harp-strings lost their magic,
And none would pay them heed.
And yet I know the minstrels
Play on with strings unfrayed
In that house that never was builded,
By that road that never was made ;
For," ancient thrills a-waking,
A singer comes, at times,
With music of their making,
And magic in his rhymes.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
The Book of Heretics
The Peace Conference shied like the skittish
horse that dances sideways across a wide
street at the demand put forward by Jewish
representatives for complete liberty of
religion. Its intentions were good, but its
courage gave out. In theory, freedom of
conscience is a simple proposition capable of
being put in a formula of three words that
any Primitive Methodist or Salvation drum-
mer can understand. Yet it was dodged in
terror by the men who knew —the battle-
scarred statesmen who had struggled with
creeds and sects, and lost their own sec-
tarianism and often their own faith in the
struggle. They were fearless men who
were willing to lay out boundaries for all the
wild-cat races on earth. Some of them had
been under fire; all of them had cheerfully
taken their chances with things of sorts and
sizes. Yet they drew the line somewhere.
To begin with, what is a religion? Mostly
it embodies a god or several gods, and some-
times some goddesses, and usually a devil or
some devils, and a more or less definite place
to put gods in, and generally a receptacle
for devils. The gods are generally immor-
tal; the devils are more or less immortal.
Some religions include intermediate spirits—
angels, fauns and such-like. But there are
others with no definite gods and without
devils. In the . common acceptation of the
term —the acceptation of the people who do
most of the world’s writing and printing—
religion teaches that there is a life or sev-
eral lives after death in which things will
be either better or worse or much the same.
But this isn’t an invariable rule. Some-
times it teaches that there was a life or many
lives before birth, but this rule is even less
invariable than the other. Each creed is
understood to make its followers think
they are better, while it makes other people
think they are horrible. Pious observances
range all the way from human sacrifices and
the inspection of the entrails of dead animals
to the building and consecration of a two-
million-pound cathedral, which is a joy and
ornament to the world till the Huns bom-
bard it. They include prayer-meetings and
pyramids, dancing, the wearing of masks,
Gregorian and other music, including plain
song, intense and uplifting eloquence,
brotherly love, unbrotherly hatred and extir-
pation, the smelling out of witches, poly-
gamy, the simple life, profound secrecy, con-
fession and other things. And in almost
every case where the chance presents itself
they include a more or less violent inter-
ference with politics. Occasionally they
take in with disastrous results, and
faith-liealing, which is a mean device to
avoid paying the doctor.
So before any set of nations enters into a
bond not to penalise sects or creeds and gives
away its sacred privilege of persecution,
there is need for some definition of the kind
of old show that has a right to official recog-
nition, and the kind of new show that can
claim to be put on the free list. These are
some of the conditions that should be
required :
It should not make bad smells by the burning
of witches," heretics, brown paper, inferior incense
or any other substances, or in any way whatsoever.
It should not make uncouth noises with inferior
bells, drums or tinny instruments, or in any other
fashion
Its tabernacles should he kept clean and well
* ventilated;
It should not stretch its creed to include the
destruction or confiscate of property belonging to
another sect, or to the State or to individuals. If
its members feel that way they may join such poli-
tical societies as suit them, but the Church should
not teach them to feel that way. Nor should it
be used as a cover for any of the lusts of the flesh,
such as drink of polygamy, nor for eelibaoy, which
is one of the lust's of the flesh .turned upside down.
(A reservation might be made for the teaching of
celibacy as a virtue in over-populated countries.)
And it should not seek to make converts, though
converts may come to it. The only excuse for
making converts, either by or violence, is
that other creeds are inferior; that the followe« of
other creeds are ignorant, wicked and benighted ana
folk of a lower grade at whom the nose may be
turned up in pity and derision, and that they are
candidates for Sheol, where the bad smells are. the
whole missionary propaganda is a turning up ot uio
nose at fellow-creatures. Ever since intolerance was
invented churches have been turning up noses at their
predecessors till the row of upraised noses extends all
down the ages. An appalling amount of money lias
been spent on the conversion of people who only had
to be re-converted. . , . ,
Also it should not seek to create an industrial
monopoly by boycotting the boots or groceries of
other religionists, or doing other things to their
exclusion or detriment. Its members might practise
the hovcott in their private capacity, but the Church
should' profess to discourage Slash selfishness even if
it doesn’t.
All this implies an international definition
of religion. After the definition has been
arrived at there would naturally be an inter-
national inspection of sects, and those which
passed muster would immediately recene
approval. Probably certificate No. 1 would
be issued to the syndfogue. It doesn t in-
terfere with rival outfits except when the
mortgage is overdue, nor does it hunt for
proselytes, or send missionaries to China in
the hope that they will be murdered so that
it may froth at the mouth by pre-arrange-
ment and seize a seaport as coriipensation.
Perhaps the synagogue would get the only
first-class certificate ever issued. Those
sects which didn’t qualify wouldu t neces-
sarilv he persecuted or annoyed in any way
or put under any disability. But they would
understand that they were objects of suspi-
cion, and that the State reserved the right to
persecute them any time it felt inclined.
And everybody who, carelessly and by force
of liabit, put his name down on the census-
paper as belonging to some church which he
never attended would understand that he
was liable, as a shareholder, to any penalties
that might happen if his sect took to excess
in bad smells, surreptitious burning of here-
tics, or violent missionary enterprise.
HENRY HORSECOLLAR.
Edmond Rostand and Romance
From the fiery dramatic intensity of
August Strindberg and the naturalism of
d’Annunzio the pendulum swings back to
the romance of Edmond Rostand, who in
1894 brought about a revival of the romantic
drama by the production of “Les Roman-
esques.” It appeared later in England and
America as “The Fantasticks,” a comedy in
three acts in verse. The scene, as the stage
direction says, ' may be where one pleases,
provided the costumes are pretty enough.
It is a bright, ingenious, highly-colored
and charming comedy, showing that true
aappiness lies within one’s self and real
romance is to be found in the heart. The
following year Sarah Bernhardt created the
part of Melissand in “La Princess Loin-
taine,” a piece in four acts. Early in 1897
she added further to Rostand’s fame by her
success with “La Samaritaine,” a poetical
setting of the biblical legend of the Woman
of Samaria. This play, however, did not
maintain its first success. The same year
the masterpiece, “Cyrano de Bergerac,” a
five-act play in verse, took Paris by storm.
“Cyrano de Bergerac” was undoubtedly
the great dramatic success of the decade: it
was presented in Paris 500 times consecu-
tively with Coquelin in the title-role. It
employs the historic figure of Savinien
Cyrano de Bergerac (1619-55), a noted
duellist in history and an author whose
works abound in originality, vigor and wit.
Like Hamlet and Macbeth, Cyrano repre-
sents a type. We feel that he is a noble
figure, and yet there is something grotesque
about him, something humiliating that
deserves our sympathy. It is his nose. As
Ragueneau says:
“....Ah, good my lords, what a nose is hist
When one sees it one is fain to cry aloud: ‘Nay I
’tis too much. He plays a joke on us!’ Then one
laughs and says, ‘He will anon take it off.’ But, no I
—Monsieur de Bergerac always keeps it on.”
He was one of those many high-minded
souls who pass their lifetime grappling with
the environment in which life has placed
them; who know what success is, yet never
attain it; who know what love is, yet never
fully realise its influence; who are craving
to he understood, but in vain; who find no
chance to accomplish the great things they
know they could accomplish; of whom
Stevenson wrote that somehow or other,
though they do not know what goodness is,
they must try to be good; that somehow or
other, though they cannot tell what will do
it, they must try to give happiness to others.
One of a multitude of Life’s Faithful
Failures!
Following “Cyrano,” “L’Aiglon” was pro-
duced in 1900; and ten years elapsed before
“Chantecler.” Rostand was far too con-
scientious an artist to make a business of
playwriting. Every line that he wrote was
executed with scrupulous care, polished and
repolished until it reached the highest of
his self-imposed standards of style. Of
“Chantecler” he said:
“Chantecler” was to be the drama of human
endeavor grappling with life. The Cock represents
man loving passionately his chosen vocation, man
who has faith in his work and will allow nothing to
sway him from its accomplishment. He meets the
Pheasant, representing woman, the modern woman:
emancipated, independent, domineering, jealous of
the male's high task.
“Chantecler” is practically “Cyrano in
feathers”—poet, philosopher and lover, yet
throughout exceeding cock-like. He believes
that his crowing causes the sun to rise:
My faith proclaims—l shatter with my crow
Night's ramparts like the walls of Jericho.
But the Hen-Pheasant lures him into the
forest, where he succumbs to the singing of
the nightingales, and forgets to crow. The
sun rises. He is _ stricken with the grief
that follows disillusionment. But from his
very despair lie learns life’s lesson—
nr i. • , tllat : he w}loSo dream has died
Must perish or arise in nobler pride.
As a work of art “Chantecler” is supreme-
bat the brilliance of its lines, the immensity
of its construction, the charm of its lyrics
(Continued on page 24.)


2?
m
Cx79.
ax.
Cxl2l.
?
0x165.
- v :v:
oxl6B.
Cxl2o
Cxl72.
ifWw
Cx9l,
Cxl3B.
CxBl.
Economy in Silverplate
at Anthony Horderns’.
THE Silverplate Department at Anthony
Horderns’ abounds in the best examples
of the silversmith’s art, each article being
not only ornate but distinctly useful. The
Silverplate can be relied upon to give good
service and look well, too. Ihe heavy plating
on the nickel=silVer or Britannia-metal base
ensures these excellent qualities. Anthony
Horderns’ Silverplate combines quality and
economy, as the selections from the large and
varied assortments here illustrated show.
THE SILVERPLATE ILLUSTRATED.
Cx79. — Dinner Cruet, Silver-plated on Nickel Silver, with 4 Cut
Glass Bottles .
Cxl72. — Jewel Casket, Silver-plated, choice engine-turned design.
oxl6B. —Bake Dish, Silver-plated, with loose Enamelled lining,
Cxl6s. — Carvers, in handsome Velvet- and Silk-lined Cases,, best
Sheffield make, Stag or Xylohite Handle* 3 Pieces >“““ 30/ .
Cxl2o. — Teapot, Silver-plated on Britannia Metal, li pint.. 35/-
2 pints 38 7 b
Cxl2l. — Sugar and Cream Stand, Silver-plated on Nickel Sdver,
ox9l. — Jam Dish, Silver-plated on Britannia Metal, cover prettily
engraved *’ ' /’’ ‘' , 7 "
Cxl3B. — Hot-water Kettle, Silver-plated on Britannia Metal, en-
graved festoon design. 2-pint size JO/-
CxBl. Flower Stand, Silver-plated, charming effect, with Iridescent
Glass Vases ‘ ' 7 ,~
Bake Dish, Silver-plated, with loose Enamelled lining, 3 7/6
0x67. — Nut Dish and Cracks, on Nickel Silver, 35/-
Cxl76. —Hot-water Jug, Silver-plated on Britannia Metal .. 37/6
0x59. — Cake Basket, Silver-plated on Nickel Silver 37/6
Cx6B. Salad or Fruit Bowl and Servers, clear press glass dish,
30/-
Cx2o — tt o^lTlonclc. ,, Black Bnamclled Iron C lock, 8-day, Cxong
Strike; height, llin.; width, 12in.; Enamelled Dial 70/-
CxlBo. — Rose Bowl, Silver-plated on Britannia Metal .... 40/-
We pay carriage on Silverplate to any nart of N.S.W.; on inter-
state orders to nearest port. Clocks, carriage extra.
Cxl73.
Cx67.
Cxl7G.
©ss9.
Wm
Cx6B.
£5
Cx2o.
■
■
CxlBo.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS.U2
Only Universal FVoviders,
New Palace Em porium«
m
m
Br-iekfield Hillt
Syd r\ey.


Remember Mothers’
Day—May 11. A
Timely Gift is a
Thought.
Bring home the
story of your
tours in splendid
Kodak pictures.
\
m
M *
Mm
I?,'* ■ \
p ; «:. : <%*
£** 4
*'
■ ,v '
- -
feteirfK
■M*7W\
- •*
ZW«#- ' k T]&&' , *r < * • *> w ‘
.j-' ~
M
s#*jpw
■
n*
S*
J*
r|V
<.,; »V
;'|r #
Sw.:*. w liv'
«-T4
'
»
mr.
4
■■i.
y&
1
h )■:'. >
»
'♦fc. V-
■v.':
«RX,*3
Vf
<-- *
S- ' - , '
<■■:■' . *• r
' l '*> ''' '■''.
. '■
Mt': .'■ a
-»« «taa
in the open and KODAK!
There’s healthy recreation and a world of interest in making pictures
with your Kodak of the beauties which nature unfolds. It is here, in
the open air away from all sources of infection, that good health will be
found and retained.
Of all Kodak dealers, and
KODAK (Australasia) LTD
Incorporating Baker & Rouse Prop. Ltd.,
379 George Street, Sydney; "The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne.
There are Kodaks from 40/-; Brownies from 10/-; and Premos from 4/0 —one
at a price to suit every pocket.
The No. 1A Autographic Kodak Junior is a splendid camera for amateurs —
makes pictures 24 x 44 inches. Price, 67/G.
The No. 2C Folding Autographic Brownie —a fine camera for all general pur-
poses—takes pictures the small postcard size, 2| x4| inches. Price, 62/-.
250-252 Queen St., Brisbane; The Valley; 37 Bundle St., Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth St.,
Hobart; Kuthven St., Toowoomba; Flinders St., Townsville; Denham St., Rock-
hampton; Optical and Photo Supplies Co., Perth; 109-111 Dixon St., Wellington, N.Z.
(Wholesale); “The Kodak Corner,” corner Eambton Quay and Willis St., Welling-
ton, N.Z. (Retail); 3 Korne St., Auckland, N.Z. (Wholesale) ; 76 Stuart St., Dunedin,
N.Z. (Wholesale); 148 Uchfield St., Christchurch, N.Z. (Wholesale).
i
**
ns
mm
*✓**»***»
*fr»
mm
***#
sL
Come —Laugh with Lauder
Gloom has held the stage too long —now for the turn of genial mirth and merriment.
Bide a wee wi’ the hilarious Sir Harry and his inimitable Scottish quips and songs.
There’s movement, life, laughter in every note and every line of the songs he sings.
You can hear his latest triumphs brilliantly reproduced by
“Bis Master’s Voice
RECORDS
for which records Sir Harry Lauder, like so many other celebrities, sings exclusively.
These are but a few selected from a lengthy list of Lauder records now available:
02588—Bonnie Maggie Tamson (Lauder).
02601—Doughie the Baker (Lauder).
02685—1 Love to Be a Sailor (Lauder).
02681—I’m Goin’ to Marry ’Arry
(Lauder).
02763—0, Sing to Me the Auld Scotch
Sangs (Leeson).
02688. —The Lads Who Fought and Won
(Lauder).
02478—Ta-ta, My Bonnie Maggie Darling
(Lauder & Grafton).
02320—Roaming in the Gloaming (Lauder)
02217—Ticklie Georgie.
02142—The Reason Why I Wear a Kilt.
01004—She is My Daisy.
01003—I’ve Something in the Bottle for
the Mornin’.
02371—A Wee Deoch an’ Doris.
Sold by accredited dealers everywhere.
Complete lists, instrument catalogue and name of nearest accredited dealer on request.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.,
163 PITT STREET SYDNEY.
His Master's Voice’
Reg. Trade-marJ:.
mfff
mm
mt
<
it
4*
SI
4


CIDER
$
KtTZS-y
PURE SPARKLING APPLE JUICE
“BOTTLES OF JOY.”
Every glassful of “Kitz’s” is a positive
thirst quencher; every bottle is a bottle
of joy and health. Have you ever had
a longing for a drink that would
definitely quench your thirst ? Just try
“Kitz’s” Cider. It quenches and revives,
puts “pep” in you. and is healthful
and nutritious, too.
Get the Kitz Cider Habit—
It’s a Habit that won’t get you.
In Baby Bottles at Hotels and Cafes—
Quarts and Pints at r tores.
AGEXTS-
SYDNEY: Tucker & Co. Ltd., Caldwell’s
Wines Ltd.
BRISBANE: Burns, Philp & Co.
TOWNSVILLE: Burns, Philp & Co.
CAIRNS': Burns, Philp & Co.
GERALDTON: A. 11. Mountain & Co.
ROCKHAMPTON: J. M. Headrick & Co.
ADELAIDE: W. P. Auld & Sons Ltd.
PERTH : Philp Coyle.
HOBART: Ferguson & Co.
LAUNCESTON: John McKenzie & Co.
(Th
Sauce)
New
it
sauce s
ought to be. \
Coaxing the appetite, m
making “an old dish” $g
delightful, and helping
along the digestion.
You'll like H P.
THE GREAT BRITISH
RHEUMATIC REMEDY.
gout
and RHEUMATIC PILLS
The Famous Medicine that relieves
R 1 IJMATISM, GDUT, LUMBAGO, SCIATICA,
The Great Discovery of th : Age.
Purely Vegetable. Sure and Safe.
All Drug Stores. English price, 1/3 and 31-
Prout & Co., 229, Strand, London.
m
Umt tv
**> T*i
V///AY/A
% 1
i!
*
Si*
M
ft
:/
88*
Ml
s (trSA)
mi?
6REV
flAlft
“IU BeTßere
PI
use
ume
k
can
Gsaparv
appointment
time
on
this R
liable
Spirit
m
with
Tank-
in
our
PLUME BENZINE
THOUSANDS of Motorists
appreciate its reliability and its
honest uniform service—day in,
and day out. They say Plume
doesn’t jib on the hills. It
let them down when they are in a
hurry. They are sure of getting
there with Plume in the tank.
When next you are going to fill
up, turn in at the dealer with the
Plume Sign.
Don’t ask for Benzine— say Plume.
P 5
VACUUM OIL COY.PTY. LTD.
9\-UAf^
Pen
The Self-filling
Safety Fountain
.HOTEL ESPLANADE,
PERTH’S PREMIER HOTEL.
racing the Swan River and Indian Ocean. An ideal situation.
Close to Post Office, Banks, etc. ALL MODERN CONVENIENCES.
M. A. BEAVOR, Proprietress.
L
Look at nine out of every ten Cycles
and you’ll see what an old
BROOKS
saddle looks like —as well as a new one.
You can still see the quality and on asking
the owner he will tell you its still there
for a Brooks endures some say indefinitely.
Aik your
Agent.
SAFEGUARD YOUR health
QtJ.CoIJis Browne’s
CWorodyne
The Original and Only Genuine.
the rest medicine tor
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in the Cough of HKONCIIIXIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SI’ASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
acts like a charm in
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery .
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, US, Sr, »/*.
Made in England.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In Time of Pestilence.
I will turn back
Into the church I flouted, and will fling
Myself bare-kneed upon the bruising stone.
Will watch through wind-wild nights and
stormy dawns
The scattering fogs about the pointing spires,
So that Death may not smite one little child ;
And I will pray to Alary and to God
In such a fashion that they needs must
hear;
Will offer sacrifice: devoutly pour
Grey ashes on the burnish of my hair
That, my one babe may go unscathed and
free;
Will cling about the altar rails, and press
Repentant lips to Christ’s pale marble feet.
But....other mothers, too. have prayed like
this,
And through the town the hungry coffins go.
And in the cemeteries they pile their dead.
I will go out
Into the streets, and sell my painted mouth
And my white bosom that I may glean gold
To pay the scientists to save my child ;
I will hoard up, as miser hoards, the coin,
Red gold to shield one tiny golden head :
Will starve myself to find a hundred fees
To bribe the surest hand, the swiftest brain,
To work and work in hushed laboratories
That all the product of their skill may go
To swerve the Black Death from one
Innocent.
“Physician, heal thyself!"’ The doctors die,
For all their test tubes and their tireless
toil.
The doctors die —who might have saved my
child.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
The Mother.
Last night I bathed my son—
The water from his brow
Dripped to my tears.
I saw him shoulder arms;
I heard the cheers
That echoed for the brave.
The flag went by,
The sky
Drooped down upon my head —
For as he passed
I knew that he was dead.
N.S.W.
JOHN BACG.
Queen of the Reef.
In the yellow of dawning,
With the great earth fawning,
Like a hound to the Master Sun,
1 shall go out singing
Where the waves are bringing ,
The dreams in the starlight spun.
None shall mark my going
But the green things growing;
And none shall hear what I sing.
But there shall be greeting
And a merry meeting
That a queen might hold with a king.
Where the tides are creeping.
She lies in her sleeping
Through all the wet night long;
And the wave-liarps whisper,
As the wind grows crisper.
Of the_kiss that is sister to a song.
>ing amber and beryl
And deep-sea peril
And gold and a sailor-man's grief!
But drowning’s good dying,
With a wet head lying
In the lap of the Queen of the Reef.
N.S.W.
FRANK SALT.
Pan.
Who has seen heaven between a sweet pea’s
w'ings,
Or spied the sudden snowdrop in the grass,
Or marked with drowsy eye how lightly
swings
The honey-eater where’er nectar clings ;
Who has beheld the wind’s feet as they
pass
In mirrored silver on the water’s glass.
Or laughed with joy to see green grasses
swaying,
Has found god Pan through charmed
thickets straying!
And he shall make all day a joyous song
Of Pan ! Pan ! Pan ! the great god Pan !
And there will be for him no grief so
strong
But he can bind it with a cobweb thong
And drop it lightly in the yellow span
Of a narcissus cup. Delight be can
Create unceasingly for eye and finger,
And joy shall at his bidding by him linger.
And hearing once Pan’s flute divine a-trill
He shall forget the old grim gods, though
feign
lie may to worship at their altar still;
He shall bow down before the joyous rill.
And sing his praises to the gentle rain.
And grlory in smooth pebbles as they stain
The pale sea-water in dim rocky hollows;
And find miraculous the flight of swallows ;
For him ’twixt earth and heaven will be
no bounds
Who follows Pan. exultant all his days.
For he shall know the magic of small sounds.
The shining peace when gaily sings his
rounds
The cricket screened within the grassy maze;
And he' shall walk in secret, scented ways,
Till, like a child, no longest day deemed
dreary,
He falls asleep, with wonderment grown
weary.
N.S.W.
NINA MURDOCH.


PERDRIAU TYRES
“Australian-made no better to be had, or I’d get them.”
Air. SYD. M. WILSON writes :
Perdriau Rubber Co., Sydney.
Duncan Street* Arncliffe*
Ist February* 1919*
Dear Sirs, —Just a word of praise to you for youi* excellent Motor lyres; I find thai
“ Perdriau l yres ” and “ Satisfaction ” are synonymous terms. I haVe used your make of
tyres for over 5 years, and I always get over 9000 miles off them, and indeed 1 have
got over 16,000 from one pair I had.
I tried them because they were Australian made, and 1 stick to them because 1
know of no better to be had, or I’d get them.
1 keep a careful speedometer record, and check my distances with every change of
tyre. The person who gets me to use another make will get up early indeed, as 1 know
when I’m on a good thing and I stick to it.
I am, yours truly,
(Signed) SYD. H. WILSON.
&
PERDRIAU TYRES are obtainable from yonv tpedl gdragt 'dr from the manufacturers —
PERDRIAU RUBBER Co. Lid:
270 George Street, Sydney.
Flinders Street, Melbourne
Adelaide Street, Brisbane
Gawler Place, Adelaide
Murray Street, Perth
FLIES
- DISEASE
to The sickroom '>
' A*.
Sl w
KWftUACC--CRBBBE:/iQ
■i
sr
as*
fMIDTHE KITCHEN-
> t .
I I
Wm**
%
FROM THE
STABLES
. omel ' • *
DRAINS .-> ‘.i
Bfe
y
vai
fig
m
n
BACON, veal
D TONGUE
(&
H-
r.
For Lunches at Work ,
Or at Home
The “Rex” Chefs have cer-
tainly hit the popular taste in
“Rex” Camp Pie. It's a boon
to the busy housewife —who has
lunches to cut. It saves the
work of preparing and cooking
meat, for iunches and teas at
home.
‘REX’ CAMP PIE
sliced thin—makes sandwiches that
are a revelation in flavor. They
satisfy as do few others.
Try “Rex" Camp Pie with Salad
and you will agree that no cold joint
ever tasted so good.
It is all pure meat, seasoned and
cooked in the special “ Rex ” way,
then packed in a thick jelly.
Sold by All Grocers.
FOGGITT, JONES & CO.. LTD.
Packers of “ Rex ” Pure Food Products
Carers of “Rax” Hams and Bacon
J 752
Every Farmer and Blacksmith
Needs a Post Drill.
There are scores of uses on the farm for one of these
post drills. They not only enable you to make your own
repairs, but open the way for making no end of metal
articles and parts that are needed on the farm from
time to time. In this way their small cost is more than
paid for over and over again.
Blacksmiths. Engineers and Garage men will find them
a splendid asset in their work. They supply that happy
medium between the laborious hand drill and the
expensive power drill.
Write for Illustrated Leaflet and Prices of Drills and
Forges to
BENSON BROTHERS Ltd..
76-78 Liverpool Street, Sydney.
71-75 Queen's Bridge Street, South Melbourne.
138 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Dodbeßrothers
MOTOR CAR
IN' securing their requirements for their vast Expeditionary Army
the United States War Office* by a process of elimination, con-
fined their selection to standardised articles of various descrip-
tions, according to the class required.
Particularly in motor vehicles was this standardisation apparent, and
more than usual thoroughness was displayed in eliminating makes
that did not come up to requirements.
Eventually three types were decided upon, viz.: A heavily-built car,
a medium-weight car for general purposes, and a light-weight car.
The Dodge, which represents the medium-weight car, was the only
make of its class approved and adopted by the War Department.
They were furnished, not in hundreds, but in thousands —both for
the home training-camps and for service in Belgium, France and
Italy.
No greater compliment than this has ever been paid to a motor-car.
The Dodge Brothers Car received the official stamp of approval
in preference to all other cars of its class, when the life of its
nation was at stake.
The Standardised Car.
Dalgety & Company Limited
136 PHillip Street, Sydney.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office., Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 40.—N0. 2047.
THUKSDAY, MAY 8, 1919.
Price Gd.
THE RIVAL DOCTORS.
BOTH OF THEM: “My patient, I think.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
I or £ 1 (Is. lid. per annum you can have The Bulletin
sent regularly to you, every week for a year, to any
address in Australasia, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, clc.j which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters arc liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right- to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The, Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence'’ column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
30011 words, arc specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the. address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
■no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if nut acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. TilH Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to Tiie Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The, conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., h J 1 Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
L'.S.A.— N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
V.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Con way Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu.. —Home News Agency, 7 lilt Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. ; —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Hoang, Cairo, Egypt.
llono Koxc;.- -Brewer and Co., I'edder Street,
Ilong Kong.
Ceylon. —TV. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillic Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua.; —Whitten Bros., Samurai.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
lOoz., Id. ; United Kingdom, All Sea Route. 16 >z.,
lid. Only one, newspaper should be enclosed in e-ch
packet — otherwise; 80s., lhd.; Bioz. to 10oz., 3d.;
lOoz. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, 40z., lid., and id. each
additional 2oz. *
THURSDAY, MAY 8, 1919.
OUR NEW COMMONWEALTH.
The Federal Labor Opposition has made the
revision of the Constitution a feature of its
policy, and the Nationalist Government has
done likewise. With all this unanimity
something may happen. Yet it may be a
long time in happening despite the unan-
imity. Thus there has for years been a
majority on both sides of the House in favor
of effective Protection, and a rich and blat-
ant and unscrupulous minority, sowing dis-
sension in the interests of the absentees, has
managed to postpone the decision. Also there
have been large quantities of unanimity about
honesty, solvency, economy and the uniform
railway gauge without much happening.
Yet unanimity is better than nothing and
may be considered a good sign. The Labor
party's idea is that a Convention should be
chosen by popular vote to draft an entire
new Constitution, which scheme has its
advantages and its drawbacks. Certainly
it looks less attractive than it did before
the Bolshevik element secured such a hold
on the Labor machine. It would mean a
vast amount of oratory, the organisation of
clubs and leagues, much limelight, the up-
heaval of scores and hundreds of new politi-
cal aspirants, also expense and turmoil
generally. There would probably be a
great effort to include in the new Constitu-
tion the nationalisation of wealth and
industries, the installation of the 18-year-old
elector, universal brotherhood, possibly the
reduction of import duties to catch the im-
porting vote, the “conscription of all
incomes above a certain figure and other
trifles. And the community, which really
has reason to complain of only one or two
features of>, the present Constitution, would
either have to accept the entire new arrange-
ment or put up with its old grievances. As
a matter of fact there is just one clause in
the Constitution which absolutely must go
out if Australia is to make any real progress.
It is the clause for which the malignant per-
versity of George Reip was largely respon-
sible—the one that was inserted for the spe-
cial preservation of the Big Political Estates
—and it reads :
No alteration.... increasing, diminishing or other-
wise altering the limits of the State or in any way
affecting the provisions of the Constitution in rela-
tion thereto shall become law unless the majority of
the factors voting in that State approve the pro-
mised law.
Under that Defence-of-the-Big-Estates
proviso there is no State (bar Tasmania,
which doesn’t badly need subdivision) in
which any part of the Big Property can
secede by peaceful, lawful means and set up
for itself except with the consent of an over-
grown capital and its immediate and para-
sitic environs. It has just as much show
as Poland had of seceding from its three
masters before the war. There are dis-
tricts of great possibilities in Queensland,
N. S. Wales, Victoria and Westralia which
are empty, backward and unprogressive, or
even perishing, because they are sacrificed
to the trade greed or political vanity of a
big capital which, with its immediate en-
virons, accounts for more than half the
population. They are killed by neglect,
ignorance and Needless Haulage. The worse
their grievance the less their voting power
and the less hope of having the grievance
redressed. The great reform lies in the
cutting up of the over-large States with
some such conditions as these: —
The process should be gradual. Australia may
have room for 30 or 40 States when it fills up, but to
make that number now would in many cases be
manufacturing States out of empty places for the
mere creation of voting power. Therefore some of
the new States must expect to be themselves sub-
divided later on.
.New States might be formed on application of a
majority of local voters and composed of bits of two
or more States if advisable. But it might be neces-
sary for the applicants to convince the High Court
or some such body that they have a good port if they
are on the coast ; a certain minimum area, for the
secession of a farm would be ridiculous; a prospect
of acquiring the minimum population required for
complete Statehood, and some show of permanence—
in other words, that they are not jokes put up by the
local Progress Association or some such body. While
they lack the minimum population they could rank
as probationers with diminished representation.
Regions which look hopeless—places with sin. of
rain and the like —might, by permission or without
permission of the Australian Parliament, be handed
over to it and adrninistered in any way it thinks fit.
The power of creating new States could
hardly be left to the Australian Parliament
where the Big City interests would always
be liable to combine against the secession.
That body might sanction and legalise the
idea in an exalted moment, but afterwards,
in cold blood, it would harden its heart.
Parliament, however, could furnish the new
States with Constitutions to start with, and
sort out their financial obligations. An
appeal should lie to the High Court in case a
humorous majority tried to present the
seceding portion of a State with all the
obligations.
* ' * * *
When once the right of secession was
established other things would begin to hap-
pen. The Commonwealth has power, which
it has always been too tired to use, to take
over the State debts, it began with limited
powers, which it didn’t employ, and in 1910
it took the trouble to have them made un-
limited, with no more results. But when
States began to break in pieces, and the
piece which retained the old capital, and
possibly the old name, refused to be responsi-
ble for the whole debt, and the creditors
refused to accept some seceding half or frac-
tion as sole security for any part of the
debt, the assumption of State liabilities by
the Commonwealth would follow automati-
cally. With it would necessarily go the
transfer of the principal asset which repre-
sents the debt —the railways. Then the silly
break-of-gauge problem, which has always
been hung up through the impossibility of
deciding on the division of the cost of recon-
struction among the different owners, would
have to be dealt with, so far at least as con-
cerned the trunk lines, unless railways were
plainly becoming obsolete. There would be
no longer any question of dividing the cost,
for one Treasury would have to meet the
bill, and instead of five separate authorities
fighting each other there would be one
authority which couldn’t afford to waste time
and money in fighting itself. A vast number
of details would have to be considered re the
construction of new lines, the borrowing
powers of States and other matters. But if
once the breaking up of the Big Political
Properties commenced these matters would
l:e dealt with. They would become unavoid-
able. Even the most incurable shirker in the
way of Legislatures couldn’t dodge them.
* * * *
The Parliament, elected by All the People,
would in itself be a fairly good Con-
vention for the amendment of the Con-
stitution if its authority wasn’t hampered
by the disastrous clause which forms
the tail-end of Australia’s charter. Par-
liament carried 11 amendments in eight
years, which was pretty fast going, and
the fact that the people rejected nine of
them is no reflection on its hunger for repair.
(Incidentally, N. S. Wales, the eternal nark,
gave a majority against 10 of the 11 amend-
ments, and in seven cases it was the sole
cause of rejection. The breaking up of N. S.
Wales might do something to restore har-
mony.) And Parliament has the advantage
of being a permanent Convention. Whether
it could be induced, in the face of silly parish
prejudice and the Big,City influence, to pass
and submit to the people an amendment can-
celling the. calamitous anti-secession proviso
of the Constitution is of course doubtful.
Whether it would authorise a Convention
which would assuredly obliterate that clause
is also doubtful. Whether the people would
accept the amendment, when offered either
by Parliament or by a Convention, is not
quite certain, for in some States the dis-
tricts which require separation to save them
from ruin have been so eaten up by the cor-
morant cities that their voting power is very
small. But the subdivision of the Big Politi-
cal Estates is the beginning of reform and
will come some day and somehow. It may
be hastened by the bankruptcy of States,
for the Commonwealth will probably only
take them over on special terms. Or it may
come about by places like Riverina or North
and Central Queensland or the Western Dis-
trict of Victoria suddenly setting up infor-
mal Legislatures of their own. after the
fashion of Ireland, and forcing the issue by
throwing clods at the income-tax man as the
Israelites did in the Book of Kings. One
way or another subdivision is inevitable, but
it would be best that it should be done in a
tidy manner.
THE SUBMERGED.
Every city has some form of City Mission
which reports periodically on the people of
the mean streets —the people who lead the
bread-and-dripping life. These include the
low-wage or odd-job people who never
learned a skilled trade, mostly because in
this land of imports there are hardly any
highly-skilied trades to learn. They include,
also, those who are partly unfit for the
hardest work through age or infirmity, and
the pathetic widows whose husbands, being
white coolies, let'r. them nothing. On the
fringe of the bread-and-dripping class are
the able-bodied men with a wife and family
apiece whose lives are a sordid, joyless grind
on a wage of less than £3 per week. The most
sanguine and energetic official calculation
hasn’t yet estimated the value of everything
produced in Australia at more than 21s. 6d.
per inhabitant per week, and of that amount
nearly 2s. goes to pay interest on purely
foreign liabilities. There is a very large and
to a great extent non-productive class—
agents, importers and others —who take a
great share of the aggregate earnings. There
is an intermediate class, the members of
strong unions whose industries are local
and not subject to foreign competition, who
can enforce their claim to more than the
share that cold calculation entitles them to.
So, one way and another, there simply must,
und.e'r present conditions, be a more or less
submerged class which iives by compulsion
on what is left.
The cost of living has gone up so much
that a person is now submerged and men-
tioned with pity in the City Mission’s re-
port on an income which would have been
comfort seven years ago, and more than
comfort 15 years ago. The strong unions
have put up their wages to correspond with
the growth of prices. The importers can
raise their charges by a silent process of
combination, and strike for 5 per cent, or
50 per cent, more without even mentioning
that there is a strike, so they have provided
for themselves. People with fixed salaries,
like school-teachers, and people without any
definite salaries, such as odd-jobbers and
wheat-growers, have suffered. They can’t
strike. That can only be done by the
moderately-affluent who have some resources
to live upon while idle. Those who get more
than the average can ask for still more,
while those who get much less can’t ask
effectively for anything. Thus the sub-
merged class, as the term may be understood
here, tends to grow larger because the people
who were far above water, as the price of
living went seven years ago, are under water
now. They haven’t even the satisfaction of
rising up and destroying the nobility with
its hereditary privileges and its pride and
its exactions. There is no hereditary
nobility. And the only classes with privi-
leges worth confiscating seem to be impor-
ters, the dealers in suburban allotments and
a diminishing group of rich landowners.
It was reported the other day that there
were 5000 unemployed of the coolie or un-
skilled laboring class in N. S. Wales alone,
and 1000 workless soldiers, many of them
partially incapacitated. This is only the
beginning of the returned-soldier trouble.
Australia is a poor place for the partially-
incapacitated man, yet he is going to be
numerous for many years. An intelligent
citizen with two artificial legs may earn
excellent wages as a maker of jewellery, a
worker in precious stones, a designer of
carpets, tapestries and women’s frills, a
builder of musical instruments or optical
instruments of many kinds, a weaver of deli-
cate fabrics —in fact, there are innumerable
employments in which brains count for much
and brawn for very little. But the Free-
trade doctrine that Providence ordered Aus-
tralia to be a mere producer of raw material
has made it the land of the hulking person
—the strenuous shearer, miner, tree-feller,
agriculturist (in the coarser grades), pick-
and-shovel man (mostly employed by the
Government out of loan money), wharf-
laborer or nrodder of cattle. There is no
white man’s country which, under present
conditions, offers a poorer outlook for the
man who doesn’t hulk, either because he
wasn’t born that way, or because war has
made him different from what he was in-
tended to be. A large proportion of the
ex-soldiery will have to moulder on the
pension-list unless the situation is wholly
changed, and the biggest pensions that can
be paid out of the proceeds of raising raw
material will be but a squalid existence for
men who have to live largely on imported
food and dress their families on imported
clothes. Their sons, brought up to wharf-
lumping or shovelling work, are likely to be
of small assistance.
* * * *
If the present conditions last it seems
thgt the melancholy section of the community
for which City Missions send round the hat
is really just beginning. With the
£760,000,000 million of gorgeous loans all
spent, and the gold supply vanishing, and the
copper industry suspended, and all the best
public lands sold, and a bill for about
£90,000,000 a year to pay for the support of
foreign workmen whose goods reach us per
medium of the importer, and a small new
army of injured soldiers to be supported in
decent comfort, the prospects look down-
ward—not upward—for a land which pro-
duces 21s. 6d. worth of goods weekly per
inhabitant and pays 2s. of that in interest
on foreign debts. There is only one way
to improve the prospects—and that is by
producing more than 21s. 6d. worth of goods
per head. Unless we do that, the helpless
folk —those who are too poor to strike and
haven’t even a regular employer to strike
against—are likely to multiply out of all
reason.
PROMOTION IN THE NAVY.
One of the embarrassments of the R.N.
authorities for years past has been the
elderly warrant-officer. The average pre-war
naval w.o. has his counterpart in the ser-
geant-major of the old British army. He
knows his job—up to a point. And he is edu-
cated —up to a point. But all men reach a
stage when they do not readily assimilate new
ideas, new ways and new knowledge. Many
good sailors and soldiers are in this category.
They have worked their way up from the
bottom rung of the ladder to a stage where
everything seems to point in the direction of
a commission. But it never comes. The man.
as the saying goes in both services, ‘’has
grown too old for the rank.” Hence a tre-
mendous amount of bitterness and a good
deal of what looks like injustice, and a state
of affairs which is detrimental to efficiency
generally.
There were very few of this class in the
A.1.F., and such as there were had undis-
tinguished careers, on the whole. The good
work, the work which made the Australian
army, in the phrase of an English critic,
“one of the most accomplished of lighting
forces,” was done by young men—mere boys
in many cases—or by older men who were
born soldiers to begin with, and who in addi
tion were intensively educated. But the
ILA.N., for various reasons, has always been
different. It is full of disappointed ancients
who have been chasing the mirage of pro-
motion to commissioned rank for anything
from 20 to 30 years. Many have reached
the goal and achieved rank and pay which
they would never have dreamed of getting
had they stayed in the R.N. All of these
are “beach” men. And they have got their
promotion, in every ease, at the expense of
younger men, of Australians, and of members
of the fighting branch of the service—which
is the equivalent of saying (hat they have
got it at the expense of efficiency. The dis-
gruntled w.o. and p.o. is an unavoidable
feature of the 8.N., just as his prototype,
the s.m., is an unavoidable feature of the
regular British Army. lie is the outcome
of a tradition the usefulness <>f which is only
just beginning to be questioned in Europe,
where it originated. No one has ever had
any time for that tradition here, outside the
little clique of Service men who still retain
the prejudices which they brought from
England.
* * * *
On the one hand, in the ILA.N. are large
numbers of elderly w.o’s, imported from Eng-
land by present and past administrations.
They are good and skilled men,,and, anyhow,
they have their rights in equity. On the
other hand, there are equally large numbers
of young Australians who have seen close
on five years’ active service at sea under
modern war conditions, and who will shortly
leave the R.A.N., which has taught them
so much at such vast expense, unless they
can see their way clear to promotion at
reasonable intervals. The chief obstacle to
lower-deck advancement is the imported w.o.
class. In addition, this class, discontented
itself, instils discontent into others. It
should be wiped right out. The Defence
Department has ready to its hand a means
of absorbing its members, to their own advan-
tage, and to the advantage of the Australian
Navy. The obvious place for them is in
one or other of the branches of the R.A.N.
auxiliary services. For example, on the
A. and I. staff. A. and I. staff-officers do
the same work for naval trainees as C.M.F.
officers do for military ones. Like many pre-
war and some present-day C.M.F. officers,
they are solicitors or grocers or something
similar on ordinary week-days and fighting-
men on Saturday afternoons. Their job is
to teach the boys the elementary principles
of seamanship—boxing the compass, knots
and splices, signals and so on. Also a little
infantry drill. Nine times out of 10 they
do not adventure even so much as this. A
chief p.o. or leading seaman does the spade
work, while they supervise. There are scores
of w.o’s in the R.A.N., old Imperial men
who know the whole of the non-technieal side
of seamanship from A to Z, who would do this
wor’ to perfection. They would bring to
it the prestige of men who have Actually
been to sea—a big factor where boys are con-
cerned. They are types who have been learn-
ing the difficult art of handling men all the
days of their lives. They would need no
assistance in a duty which would interest
most of them; equally it would be in
their power to make it interesting te most of
the boys. The one difficulty is the pay ques-
tion. The minimum pay of a w.o. at sea
in the R.A.N. is £3OO per annum, and lie
reaches a maximum, with allowances, of
£450 per annum. On transfer to, say, the
A. and I. staff, however, his maximum, to
start with, would be only £228 per annum.
The remedy is to raise the pay of the auxili-
ary services and transfer to them as many
ex-R.N. w.o’s as can be prevailed on to go
there. A committee is inquiring into the pay
of the three branches of the auxiliary services
at the present time. If it recommended
something on the above Ones to the Navy
Minister he would have little difficulty in
getting the Treasury to sanction it.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Japan and W. M. Hughes.
The Japanese, like most subtle and astute
people, have a strong regard for plain
speech. Furthermore, they are extremely
difficult to deceive. It is doubtful if ft* 1
somewhat self-righteous pose of President
Wilson has impressed them at all. H e
can afford to scout indemnities: his country
has made money out of the war. He can
afford to go the idealistic limit on the
League of Nations question: the U.S.A.
have never had to depend for peace, and for
their national independence, on the balanee-
of-power principle, as many European coun-
tries have ever since the day of lliero of
Syracuse. Hughes, of Australia, has
gained the good-will of the Japanese dele-
gates, and maybe that of most of the Japan-
ese nation, by declining to treat this excep-
tionally intelligent people as fools. He has
frankly stated what every educated Japanese
knows to be the views of the vast majority
of Australians. The world is not to be run
on the lines of a vast Sunday-school. V. rl ‘f
nations, like virile men, are acquisitive.
Acquisitiveness, amongst nations as amongst
individuals, takes the line of least resistance.
One of Japan's least-resistant lines happens


to be in the direction of the northern por-
tion of Australia. Many Japanese were
there before the war, and since it began more
have arrived. At Broome they practically
control the chief local industry and have
reduced the Pearling Act to a farce. The
coolies who work in the pearling trade con-
sume only Japanese goods—rejecting even
Australian meat and flour —and they are
able to work on a shilling-a-day basis. Aus-
tralia has two alternatives. It can admit
such persons without limitation, and face
the lowering of a wage-standard which its
workers have taken a century of bitter fight-
ing to build up —with (lie certain result of a
Bolshevik revolution to follow. Or it can
discourage their arrival to the best of its
ability and chance the consequences. There is
not one Australian in a hundred but
favors tlie second policy. To say that this
amounts to an insult to Japan is as absurd
as it would be to argue that the Protective
policy of France is an insult to Britain.
There remains, then, the question of race-
mixture. The best Japanese sentiment on this
differs in no way from the best Aus-
tralian, the best English, the best Indian —
even the best Jewish. A typical pure-bred
Japanese is the equal iu courage, honor and
intelligence of the highest type of Caucasian.
But a half-bred Japanese is liable to be a
calamity, though his father was the descen-
dant of paladins and his mother the offspring
of saints. To Japanese of culture and
patriotism the idea of Nippon being flooded
by whites —not merely cheap whites, but any
whites—would seem like sacrilege. Not
that the Japanese despise white men as such,
but because they fear miscegenation. So
does Australia, and so does every other coun-
try that has watched it at work. Hughes’s
practice all through the Peace Conference
deliberations has been to say those obvious
but, by an idiotic old convention, hitherto
Almost unmentionable things. He deserves
the thanks no less of Japan than of Australia
for the frankness. His attitude olfends no
section that matters, and it sanitises the air
of discussion in a remarkable manner. There
is nothing so disconcerting to the solemn
humbug, and nothing more helpful to those
who are honestly working for a fair deal all
round, than a series of doses of good old
homely veracity.
The Australian Army Reserve.
Fbom another campaigner :
It is admitted that the conditions of enlistment in
the Australian Army Reserve are entirely voluntary
and as elastic as anything in the world, but the
scheme is certainly not going to provide the Com-
monwealth with a trained body of 200,000 men.
The training consists of four days per year in
camp. Out of those four days at least two will
be taken up in travelling to camp, pitching camp
and drawing stores, striking camp and returning
stores, and travelling from camp at its conclusion,
leaving two days for training. It will be a nice
problem for the military authorities to decide what
is to he done in the two days’ training allowed for —
whether the men are to renew their acquaintance
with tlie service rifle, or undertake some Army Corps
manoeuvres. It is a foregone conclusion that if they
choose to toy with one the other must be outed.
There is another weighty consideration. The con-
ditions of fighting in the trouble with Fritz and his
dupes included, besides mud and other things, a
theatre of operations thickly populated and cultivated.
Also it was limited in extent, taking into considera-
tion the huge armies engaged. Any student of war
will a glee that the past trouble will differ entirely
from any war waged in Aussie. In this continent
of poor communications, vast distances and scanty
population, trench warfare, as experienced in France
and other fronts in the great struggle, can form only
a small portion of a campaign. Tlie majority of
officers and men of the A.I.F. who are going to con-
stitute the Army Reserve have had practically no
experience of any kind of warfare but that conducted
in trenches. Is it proposed to train these officers
and men in the kind of warfare likely to take place
in this country in two days a year?
I urther, a soldier joining the Australian Army
Reserve has little or no guarantee that he will be
linking up with a unit which bears the name of his
old regiment. A.I.F. units were raised from time
to time in various States, and the personnel was
drawn from the whole of the State in question—
sometimes from more than one State. The Army Re-
serve units are split up on a strictly territorial
basis. Therefore, if any State provided, say, 10
battalions for the A.1.F., men joined those battalions
irrespective of the part of the State from which they
came. Yet they are appointed in the Army Reserve
to the unit raised under the Army Reserve
scheme from the locality in which they are
living. So that the Army Reserve units will not
be properly constituted units, but a heterogeneous
mass of officers and men from the members of a
dozen or more different A.I.F. units. It would take
weeks, even if officers and men could be regarded as
perfectly trained individually, for them to obtain
an intimate knowledge of each other and gain that
mutual confidence between leaders and led which ia
essential if a unit when mobilised to fight is to,
possess that regimental pride and cohesion of move-
ment necessary in a fighting battalion. Further
still, as at present constituted a battalion of the
Army Reserve forms a reserve battalion in each
case to a Citizen Forces battalion of the
same number. It is suggested for consideration that,
if the four years’ experience of actual warfare which
the men of the A.I.F. have obtained is to be made
full use of, they would be better employed in serving
in the Citizen Forces alongside their younger brothers
in arms, who would then have constantly amongst
them men who have done glorious deeds in the
greatest war ever known.
The foregoing should make it clear that the Aus-
tralian Army Reserve as constituted at present
will form a body of men who will require a consider-
able amount of training before they can possibly be
< onsidered as a fighting organisation. What is to be
feared is that this paper organisation of 200,000
trained men should lull Australia into a false sense
of security. Let me get down to figures. If paid for
their four days’ “training” per year at the minimum
late of Citizen Forces (4s. per day), the Australian
Army Reserve is going to cost in pay a minimum
of £160,000 annually. To this amount must be
added rations, which will cost approximately Is. 6d.
per day per man—another £BO,OOO. And to this
amount add another £30,000 to cover expenses of
freight and railage of men to and from their camps,
as well as incidental expenses which are bound to
occur. The Commonweilth has been guilty of some
weird finance, but it is a new thing to ask Young
Australia to pledge himself to pav a quarter of a
mill n annually for the privilege of living in a fool's
paradise.
William lOU.
Every time a new volume of statistics comes
out there is interesting information about
the country’s public-works loan-razzle,
especially the N. S. Wales loan-razzle. This
is the latest there is re the Ma State’s peace
debt (the war debt is separate) :
Before Holman.
Interest. Increase per Year.
1901 ..£2,429,983
1905 .. 2,937,150 £101,433
1910 . . 3,250,129 62,596
During Holman.
1911 . . 3,363,584 113,455
1912 .. 3,531,528 167,944
1913 .. 3,786,842 255,314
1914 .. 4,205,771 418,929
1915 .. 4,728,886 523,115
1916 .. 4,848,967 120,081
1917 .. 5,257,546 408,579
1918 . . 6,077,448 879,902
William the Pawnqueror is just getting into
his stride. It took GO years of borrowing to
run the annual interest charge to a little
over £3,000.000; William took only eight
years to get it to the £0.000.000 mark. His
last effort, when he added £810,002 to the
annual invoice for the dead horse, was some-
thing special. Five more such years, if the
invincible borrower is spared to us, will see
the little Ma community digging up
£10,000,000 per annum from its pants to
keep the old pawn-ticket from the door. Yet
Holman has been complaining bitterly
because, through insufficiency of loan money,
he. couldn’t shove public works ahead as he
wanted to. Like Alexander, he wept
because he couldn’t find more Jews to con-
quer, and if he had had his way he would
probably have added £1,600,000 to the in-
terest liability instead of a mere £BOO,OOO odd.
Naturally N. S. Wales is finding its level in
the money market. In 1910 its debt cost it a
lower rate of interest than that of any other
State barring Westralia. In 1918 it was
fifth instead of second on the list, paying a
higher interest rate than any other State bar
S. Aus. If Holman lasts long enough it
may get down to the financial level of
Mexico. He is a deep-sinker.
Favorable Winds.
Dear Bulletin, —One recent day it was re-
ported that the industries of Victoria —rail-
ways, factories, trams, etc. —were within
three weeks of stoppage for lack of coal.
Victoria lives mostly, and S. xYus. lives
wholly, on coal brought from N. S. Wales,
that State and Queensland being the only
ones which a forgetful Providence didn’t dis-
remember to decently furnish with the
article. Therefore in industries which depend
largely on coal, and most of them depend,
more or less, these two States can’t pay the
wages which the N. S. Wales coastal dis-
tricts can, and all the Bolsheviks on earth
would fail to alter the situation. The coal
bill has to be paid first, for if the combust-
ible fails there are no wages, and long haul-
age by rail and sea makes the combustible
costly. The price of fuel is going up con-
tinuously. And the lack of ships, which
everybody forgot to build when they were
wanted, together with the aged condition of
the railways which have been postponing re-
pairs till imported material came to hand,
make haulage not only dear but very scarce.
So with the immovable tariff the struggle to
compete against countries like England,
where there is a coal deposit in everybody’s
back yard, grows more difficult. It is a
serious question whether a great deal more
might not be done with wind power. The
one thing we know of close at hand that
looks like perpetual motion is the revolution
of the earth —at least, it is perpetual
enough to go on with. It beats water-power,
for the revolution neither dries up nor
freezes. Partly because the atmosphere
doesn’t dig its hoofs into the globe hard
enough it is always slipping and being left
behind, in consequence of which there is a
great west wind in the Southern Ocean where
there are few obstructions to bring up the
sliding atmosphere and throw it back on its
haunches. I don’t know that I have got the
explanation quite accurately; but that
doesn’t matter. Wind, anyhow, is a vast
power, and there are great deposits of it even
in the places where coal is not. The Dutch-
men, being short of coal and cataracts, har-
ness the gales by means of countless wind-
mills and work almost anything with them
bar trains. And there is no visible reason
why electric trains shouldn’t be run by them,
one force being as good as another to propel
with if there is sufficient of it. We have this
solid evidence to go upon. A good ship,
driven by favorable winds when it has them,
and dodging about or going backward? when
the wind is unfavorable, will get to England
in about twice the time taken by a good
steamer. If any and every old wind was a
favorable one for a sea vessel as it is
for a windmill, the good ship would pro-
bably equal the steamer and do it at a
fraction of the cost. In other words, wind
is as good as coal if it can be made to point
steadily in the right direction, and the wind-
mill points it in the right direction. The
element of variability is cut out; in fact,
with strikes and “dargs” and profiteering,
coal has become the more variabD of the two.
Of course, the coal craze having become
pandemic, as the witchcraft craze once was
and as the Freetrade craze once threatened
to be. this idea may look like a return to
the Dark Ages. But I don’t in the least
mind returning to tb« Dark Ages if we can
find a useful cheap illuminant there. The
wind will be blowing when coal and oil are
exhausted. It won’t eo up in price. It
is one of the very few things with which this
rather unlucky country is as well supplied
as the best. In fact, it is one of our great
natural resources. ar.d it is time to go back
to it and study the long-neglected, long-
despised thing more carefully. It has really
never had a proner trial, for by the time
man had invented the machinery with
which to equip an omnipotent windmill
he had got the coal disease so badly
that he thought of nothing else. And
with the coal disease he got the idea
that every motor must carry its power
with it, as the locomotive carries its
bushel of fire in its stomach. That put
wind-power out of court, for a three-masted
train would come to grief in the tunnels.
But now it is proved that the locomotive
theory is bosh, and that power can be made
at central stations and sent along bv wire-
in other words, the gale eau be saved up
and harnessed to an express train without
there being masts on the vehicle, and without
able-bodied seamen accompanying it and
perhaps developing scurvy or mutiny on the
voyage. Therefore I propound my theory
and invite experts and Websters and folk
of original minds to get on to it. —Yours,
etc., Henry Horsecollau.
——
Beet.
The C.S.R. ease against the fostering of a
beet-sugar industry in Australia amounts
broadly to the allegations (1) that it can
never pay and (2) that it is unnecessary.
Before the war, the production of beet-sugar
was one of Germany’s most profitable lines.
Germany is as arid as Australia in part is
the other thing. The world’s production of
sugar amounts now to 8,292,000 tons. Only
2,800,000 tons of it is cane-sugar; in other
words, about two-thirds is the product of
the beet. Up to the beginning of the war
Germany supplied the greater part of
Europe, and notably the United Kingdom,
with beet-sugar that was good and cheap,
its chief competitors being France and
America. German sugar will not be popu-
lar in any British community for years to
come; America can barely produce enough
for its own requirements, even with the help
of Cuba; and France, crippled by the war,
is not likely to be a formidable figure in the
exporting field within, at any rate, the next
decade. What is to prevent Australia tak-
ing a hand in the business? Nothing, bar-
ring the hostility of interested parties and
the neglect of duty on the part of poli-
ticians. The opposition of the C.S.R. will
take the form chiefly of an attempt to cut
prices. Already, by means of a recently-
discovered process, the manufacturer is able
to get 95 per cent, of the juice from the
cane. It would be possible for the C.S.R.
to sell sugar in Australia for years at an
almost contemptible figure and yet pay
decent dividends. The Government should
not, whatever happens, seek to destroy,
or even injure, the great Northern in-
dustry. But emphatically it should neglect
none of the provedly effective means of
putting the new one on ar sound basis, and
keeping it there. Germany beat the world
as a producer of beet-sugar by a rigid appli-
cation of those principles under which indus-
tries are said by the Freetrade crogrl to
languish. It not only went to the nation’s
scientists for information as to the best way
to grow the beet and extract the product;
it also gave the industry complete Protec-
tion. It was the first to adopt the device
of levying the sugar duty on the roots only,
and. not on the sugar itself. The effects
were to induce the farmers to concentrate
on growing the very best and most produc-
tive roots, while the manufacturers ad-
dressed themselves to getting the biggest pos-
sible amount of sugar out of them. The
art of growing a high class of root, the diffu-
sion process by which the utmost value is
got out of them —these, and many other
things, the result of GO years’ toil and
thought in France and Germany, are now at
the service of the Commonwealth. A share
in the vast market which Germany risked
and lost in its recent insane gamble'is to be
had for the taking. Let the C.S.R. protest.
Its interests are great; but the Common-
wealth’s interests are infinitely greater.
The Ma State’s Profit.
There was room for various opinions about
the Federal Government’s action in com-
mandeering the N. S. Wales coal supply, but
it is absurd to say that it is going to do
special harm to the Ma State. The situa-
tion is that N. S. Wales is the only one with
a surplus of coal to dispose of. and the
only one which isn’t dependent to some ex-
tent on outside supDlies. As regards
Queensland and Tasmania it is chiefly a
matter of insufficient development, but in at
least two of the other States (S.A. and Vic-
toria) the disability seems permanent by act
of Providence. Therefore the Ma State, and
the coal-miners and owners thereof, are in
a position to hold up or boycott or starve
out or blockade or loot certain neighboring
communities. If they could arrange to do
it without annoying the people of their own
community too much, their position, except
for Federal interference, would be almost
impregnable. The Commonwealth Govern-
ment, . seeing the perilous position the
majority of the States were thus in. seized
the coal stocks and granted the increased
wages that were demanded. The result is
that the people of N. S. Wales will doubtless
pay more for their coal, but the great bulk
of that money will remain in N. S. Wales
and be spent there, quite unlike the money
spent on imported fripperies. Also the
people of the other States will pay more for
their coal, and the great bulk of that money
will also be spent in N. S. Wales. The Ma
State thus gets practically all the profit and
none of the loss. Provided there was a
really patriotic tariff, so that the increased
price of coal wouldn’t ruin local industries
and throw their business into the hands of
the absentee manufacturers whom the im-
porters represent, it would pay the Ma State
to shove up the price of coal another 10s.
per ton instead of 3s. One half the in-
crease would be paid by N. S. Wales, but
almost the whole of the* increase would be
spent there. The sudden realisation that
the N. S. Wales miners possessed a very
big gun and were waving it rather reck-
lessly so shook up Australia that it is pos-
sible the Commonwealth may take over the
coal industry permanently. That won’t
prevent the miners demanding more pay or
creating a coal famine, but it will ensure
that the famine will be evenly distributed
and that the Coal State will have as much
reason to end the trouble as any of the
others. Then the question of Federal con-
trol of the railways which carry the coal will
come up. In fact, many things will come up.
The Australian Officer’s Widow.
“Kismet” puts in a plea:—
Australia may not know it, but it grants pitiably
small pensions to the widows and orphans of officers
killed in this war. An Australian captain’s widow,
whose husband was killed after 15 months’ service, is
trying to pay rent anil live and keep her delicate
child on 48s. 9d. a week. A half-caste woman in the
same community, who was married to a Manila man,
draws the same allowance (10s.) for her child as
this officer’s widow does for hers. Previous to the
war the lady's husband, then a reserve officer in the
signal-engineers, drew between £5OO and £6OO a
year. That closes the case for the Australian widow.
Two years ago in England 1 knew the young
widow of a second lieutenant in the Territorials, who
had not volunteered like the Australian officer. Her
husband had completed only three months’ service
when he died of wounds. Within 10 days of his
death, his widow —a young woman, 24 years of age,
who has a private income of £lO a week and no
children —received from the War Office a gratuity of
£2OO and six months’ pay, with the promise of
two guineas a week for life. This came to her
automatically. Later, the War Office paid her saloon
fare to Rio Janeiro so that she might sec about some
property she has there.
England has (1) an Officers’ Families Relief Fund
that pays debts up to £5OO ; (2) an Educational
Fund that sends the children of officers “to the
schools their parents have been accustomed to” : and
(3) a Rent Fund. There is also a semi-private fund
that supplements the pension of an officer's widow
with children. Here in Australia what have we?
An Australia Day Fund and one or two others kept
going by the rattling collection-box and conducted
in such a fashion that most self-respecting women
would rather.hunger than appeal to them.
We have an idea that we treat our men with
greater liberality than any others in the world. We
do nothing of the sort.
The Speck’s Financial Nightmare.
Premier Lee, of Tasmania, in his policy
speech, delivered tit Longford the other even-
ing, moaned mildly about the tremendous
disparity between the Island’s interest hill
and the earnings of public services (interest,
say, £700,000; net revenue from public ser-
vices about £200,000). but omitted to men-
tion any method of bridging the awful gap.
In fact, he side-steps finance altogether,
merely remarking that he does not think
further taxation will be necessary. Yet he
promises State steamers, admits that the
prospect of a £200,000 reduction in the
amount receivable from the Commonwealth
(by special grant and the per capita suit-
sidy) is imminent, acknowledges the need
for the expenditure of large sums to extend
the State’s hydro-electric works, and de-
clares that a vigorous policy of road-making
and railwaying is indispensable. As all
these and other things which lie indicates
will cost money, and as payment out of
revenue doesn't seem a likely proposition, it
is presumed that Premier Lee proposes to
depend on the pawnshop as usual. This
leads to the further presumption that he
has the rare good fortune these times to
have the name and address of a complaisant
uncle in his pocket-book. But even if he
has it doesn’t offer much of a solution of the
problem. In fact, in the absence of any
proposal to use the proceeds of the loans on
works which will immediately return the
interest plus a sinking-fund contribution —
and there is no such proposal in Lee’s pub-
lished oolicy—the appalling hiatus above-
mentioned cannot fail to grow more appalling
still. It appears to this paper that when
the Premier of a State whose 16,000,000
acres and stationary population of 200,000
carry a public-loan burden of £15,000,000,
and whose annual revenue from all sources
of a little over £1,000,000 is all bar £300,000
required to meet the annual interest bill of
£700,000, and whose public services (none
of them yet earning interest on capi-
tal cost) produce less than one-third of the
£700,000 —when a Premier so circumstanced
declares that no further taxation is needed
and no heroic measures of financial reform
are contemplated, somebody ought to ask
him where he expects tEe State to land.
Encouraging the Prospector.
The old pathetic faith in the great natural
resources of the country, combined with a
belief in the reorganisation of society, is
instanced by the,, mining policy just adopted
by the N. S. Wales Labor party and enunci-
ated by John Storey. These are the lead-
ing features: —
State aid (extent not yet defined) to parties that
wander over the face of the country in search, or
alleged search, of minerals.
State aid to persons who wish to explore aban-
doned or other mining properties. (Most abandoned
properties have been explored already.)
State acquisition of all mines, the highest price
paid being the actual capital invested. This presum-
ably means that the few mines which have proved a
prize in the lottery and are worth more than then-
original cost will be bought at cost, and the unlucky
ones will be taken at present value. Payment to he
made by bonds and consequently added to the public-
debt. Bonds presumably to live after the mines are
dead.
All mines to be worked on the day-wage system,
and the working hours to be 30 per week.
Management to be by the Minister and a com-
mittee of six, three appointed by the Government
and three by the day-wage men.
Alining used to he n fascinating business,
like crusading and filibustering and piracy.
That was when a small part of the single
little State of Victoria produced £12,200,000
worth of easily-won surface gold in a year.
Now the whole six States and one Territory
produce about £24,000.000 worth of all
minerals, including coal. It may he pul-
down at £8 per square mile, or 3d. per acre
per annum for the whole continent, though
the slump in copper is likely to make it
much less very shortly. The return per
State is. roughly speaking, per square mile :
Tasmania (mostly copper) .. ..£6O 8 9
N.S.W. (mostly silver-lead and coal) 40 10 0
Victoria 14 19 0
Queensland (mostly copper). . .. 6 0 0
Westralia (mostly gold) . . .. 4 14 S
S.A. (mostly copper).. .. .. 3 16 0
N. Territory .. .. .. .. 2 1
The great production occurs in small, widely-
scattered blobs. The rest of Australia,
despite much prospecting spread over nearlv
70 years, some of it with Government aid.
pans out at a few coppers to the mile. The
gross output of all the mines in Australia i<
worth about one-seventh of the gross output
of the factories, though the factories are s>
insufficient that they supply only about half
the local demand, wherefore there is abund-
ant room for expansion. . Mineral finds have
a habit of being small and temporary and
deceptive and too remote from any place to
pay. Anybody under a decent tariff could
start a match-factory with little delay, and
assurance of a demand, and a chance that


. m a
. .- . '
jQusiraJia.
THE PREMIER HOTEL IN THE COMMONWEALTH
THE RENDEZVOUS OF THES ELITE.
ENTERTAIN YOUR FRIENDS
IN THE WINTER GARDEN at
Morning Tea, Afternoon Tea or
Theatre Supper—Stra\. berries and
Cream, Fruit Salads, Ices, Delect-
able Confections and Cool Drinks to
your fancy.
Say or 'Phone Your Requirements,
and our Experts do the rest.
The Manager.
IN THE TUNING HALE, A LA
CARTE R4OOMS or PRIVATE
ROOMS at Lunclfteon, Dinner or
Supper. Latest Music.
art
7/
m
the industry would last for centuries, and
that the reef would improve as time went on ;
and he could at least select a suitable site
for his enterprise close to a market, and
decide on the nature of his product. But the
prospector, if he doesn’t die in the Home for
Failures without any luck coming his way,
has a chance that his find, which may be
anything from gold to a grievance, will be
so far from anywhere that it might as well
be nowhere. At the best his mine begins to
die as soon as it is born. And it hasn’t, as a
rule, even the virtue of definitely opening
up the country, unless it be country like
that around Ballarat, which would be opened
in any case. In places like Silver ton,
Mount Browne and Kalgoorlie the country
just shuts again when the boom is past.
■»-
Baying the Moon.
Mr. Tennyson Smith, the temperance reformer, was
“counted out” repeatedly at his South Melbourne
meeting, and finally had to desist and leave the
hall.
The “count-out” is an Australian invention.
Many enrnent people had to submit
to it during the war —amongst them the
Prince of Wales. The Prince; however,
was counted in again. It was discovered
that a mistake had been made, and an in-
justice done. No one will make the honor-
able amend to Mr. Smith. lie is born to
the “count out” as the sparks fly upward.
For he is a humbug, and that is the class
of person for whom this particular discipline
was invented. What is an audience to do
with a man who habitually over-states his
case; who bawls cheap melodrama
about “fighting to the death with publi-
cans” ; who threatens and blithers and in
general goes on as if liis hearers were half-
witted? What but silence him in the only
effective way yet devised? There is not
one of Smith’s anti-drink -arguments that
fails to insult the intelligence of those to
whom it is addressed. He points to a
soberer world and says it is the outcome of
temperance advocacy. Plainly it is not.
Cheaper and better theatres, the arrival of
the picture-show, surfing and out-of-door
amusements on the Sabbath and generally
—these are the real prophylactics against
dipsomania. In some of the most religious
villages in Scotland the Sabbath Day is
kept so holy that a quarter of the popula-
tion is fuddled before night. Wherever
white people live in sordidness and misery,
there you find drunkenness. It is at once
their protest and their Lethe. So, by as
much as you improve housing and ensure a
living wage, you help to eradicate the drink
habit. People like Tennyson Smith draw
all their arguments from particular cases:
that is, from hopeless dipso’s, who would
continue to make degrading objects of them-
selves in public places if the penalty for
being convicted of a whisky-breath was
£lOOO. They are so palpably beside the
point that they have no rational place in
any discussion on the drink-question. There
are a thousand ways of minimising drunken-
ness. By reforming the public-houses—
making them respectable taverns and beer-
gardens instead of frank inebriation-bureaus.
By agitation for the Government inspection
of alcohol—a measure which would do much
to eliminate the retailer of “pink-eye” and
other poisonous stimulants. And by* educat-
ing the nation in regard to the virtues of
moderation, as against howling orders at it
to totally abstain, which no civilised nation
ever has done or will do. Tennyson
Smith and his kind prefer to intemperately
advocate the impossible, and to get a com-
fortable living by it. The “count-out” is
the public’s protest against the cant.
This, from an infantry officer in Belgium,
discloses a choice sample of petty meanness :
You remember what happened in March last. The
great German advance was in progress. A British
army, overwhelmed, was in full retreat. Amiens,
was threatened. The Australians were thrown in to
stop the wave. They did it at Villers Bretonneux,.
and, so the Frenchmen say, saved a great disaster,
though at awful cost. Our lot was then near Meteren.
We were ordered to dump our clothes and everything
t’se at that town, to travel as light and as rapidly as
we could, and get to it. This was done. Then
Meteren was lost — not by Australian troops—the
dump was destroyed, and now we cannot get compen-
sation for our kits. English officers, in similar cir-
cumstances, ges full compensation in money, and
that is what we demand; for most of the goods lost
have long since been replaced by ns. It is under
one of Pearce’s precious rulings that monetary com-
pensation is refused. We are told that if the Divi-
sional Commander sanctions it the items will be
replaced by Ordnance issue or purchase. This, of
course, is no good to us, seeing that our money has
already replaced the goods. We don’t want more
goods, especially as the war is over—we want our coin
refunded. And surely Australia will say that we
should have it.
*
A Sydney medical man sums up:—
There is not a crumb of comfort to be gained
either pathologically or clinically from medical pala-
vers on the question of the hour. Isolation has failed
to check the spread of the disease; treatment in the
severest pneumonic cases is of no avail; and we must
expect future epidemics to spread with a similar
hurricane-like rapidity. The Commonwealth should
spend 4:100,000 or so in providing a proper patho-
logical research outfit, and should obtain a few bio-
logists with an original turn of mind and give them
a decent screw. It is to the biologist that we must
look for aid in future in grappling with influenza
problems, and not to the clinician. The spread of
the disease has been so incredibly swift that one
inclines to come back again to the old theory of
air-borne contagion. If the “droplet” infection
theory is to hold good it wants a deal of explaining,
especially with regard to the 80,000 cases said to
have occurred in Sydney. Some of the types are
held to be infectious and others non-infectious, which
also wants explanation. As in other countries the
disease has had a tendency to pick out alcoholics,
nearly always with a fatal result. Masks, of course,
are good, but not the useless apologies seen in
Sydney. Prophylactic inoculation is lukewarmly
supported. There remains isolation, and a rattling
good constitution, which is the best thing of all.
♦ '
Dear Bulletin, —A Yankee visitor, the dis-
tinguished submarine Lieutenant Merri-
man, got space for an interview’ lately in
Sydney Telegraph. Part of it was quite
affectionate:—
What is the feeling here regarding America ? Are
you going to barricade yourselves around with tariff
regulations and keep us out? Our people think the
world of you Australians, and we want to be on the
closest terms of friendship with you.
Yes, darling, we knew all about it even
before the Yank took to stealing Australian
THE AUTOCRAT OF NATIONS.
patents for agricultural machinery, and
before he shut our vessels out of the
Hawaiian “coastal” trade at a time when
our coasts were open to all and sundry.
Also we were reminded the other day when,
finding his tariff insufficient to shut out Aus-
tralian wheat, he condemned a cargo as
diseased. The subsequent frank admission
that the disease was a dashed lie, invented
because the U.S. had a bumper crop of its
own, was merely amusing. These things
were “business,” but we don’t want business
mixed up with sentiment —oleaginous senti-
ment about how our hard-case brother thinks
the world of us and would fall on our neck
if there w r as a chance to steal the stud out
of the back of our collar. We prefer the
straight-out statement of the lady who de-
scribed Sydney in a recent Los Angeles paper
as a mean city occupied chiefly by illegitimate
children. She at least wasn’t trying to
sell us anything.—Yours, etc., Solomon
Malaprop.
The minds of diplomats are always
drugged by phrases. When Germany and
England were dividing up the Solomons in
1893, England’s claim to Treasury Island
was allowed on the ground that it was “one
of her naval coaling-stations.” What hap-
pened was this. About 1885 H.M.S. Lark
landed a few bags of coal there when she
was engaged in surveying Bougainville
Straits. They were left in charge of a
native, and so jealously guarded that another
British ship sent for them had difficulty in
persuading the colored trustee to give them
up. He expected the old Lark would come
for them.
Launceston has a razor-edged by-law
which decrees that after a house has been
condemned, and due notice given, it is illegal
to collect rent from it. The other day the
Council, acting on the advice of the Health
Officer, condemned a batch of over 20 hovels
as unfit for habitation. Of course, they
mostly belong to the biggest ratepayers in
the town.
Matthew Digby Wyatt, herbalist, of Mel-
bourne, has w r on what should stand ds the
World’s Mean Man Championship for 1919.
He robbed a stone- and incurably-blind man
of his last £2 on the false pretence that he
would cure him. The diploma, which took
the form of a police-court fine, cost Matthew
£25.
N.S.W. Attorney-General David Hall
presided at a meeting of Sydney Rescue
Society, whose director is Avell known for his
persistent canvass for money to carry on
the work. Various speakers referred to
their long association with the official, and
lauded his virtues. Then David’s turn
came. He could not speak of a long per-
sonal acquaintance with the gentleman, but
he knew enough of him to be able to suggest
a suitable epitaph—three words Luke
IG, 22 : “The beggar died” !
From an officer in Belgium:—
At this date (February 14) nearly six weeks have
passed without a mail from Australia. Six weeks!
Not even at the height of the trouble
were things so bad as that. What is matter? It
is very difficult to get the men to Relieve that the
thing hasn’t happened which has happened after
every other war —that, the danger to. your own skins
being over and the fighting done, you have no fur-
ther use for them, and no further for them. We
talk to them about “repatriation'/’ and they jeer.
Do you wonder? At the very mc/nent when, having
little to occupy their minds, they l are most restless,
and when regular mails from ho/be would be of the
utmost value in preventing tro üble —of which there
is plenty—there is this horrible ■'bungling at home.
For mouths past several Melbourne State
schools have been used as ’flu-hospitals—a
wasteful procedure whi’lfe town-halls remain
unoccupied. At present Willie and Annie
are not forbidden to attend school where
schools- are available; yet the mostly useless
and money-losing suburban halls are chiefly
let for flower-shows or* glee-club meetings and
similar fiddling enterrlrises. Bumble, instead
of using his influence to have the halls made
ready for patients, satisfies himself with
rattling his voice-box and bringing forth such
advice as "Be kind to yer neighbor. . . .jug o’
soup.. . .’elp one another.. . .everybody must
do ’is bit.” Bumble, of course, doesn’t want
to offer up his precious town-hall for nursing
purposes, though it belongs to the public,
because the ’flu-germs might get into the
mayoral cupboard or the municipal rabbit-
furs; but that remote possibility shouldn’t be
allowed to stand in the way of the public
interest.
Women have scored another. They have
just been given the right to ride in smok-
ing-carriages on the Speck’s railways if they
want to. Probably the approaching general
election had something to do with it.
“J.S.T.”: Don’t imagine that the Yank is
giving up his beer without a struggle. \\ hen
my ship left New York the city was in an
uproar over prohibition. They were selling
buttons in the streets, inscribed “No Beer,
No Work.” 1 wouldn’t be surprised to hear
that the statue of Liberty was wearing one.
Adelaide doesn’t know what to do about
it. Under a Defence Department law, pubs
must shut when a troopship is in port: and,
with a long line of troopships on the water,
Adelaide sees its pubs shut almost every
day. The local commandant suggests turn-
ing the horribly-depressing neighborhood of
the Outer Harbor into an Eden from which
the men won’t want to wander; but how it
is to be done in a month or so nobody can
tell. The apple-tree certainly can’t be cul-
tivated in the time, though Eve might be got
full-grown. Perlians Eve —a sufficient num-
ber of Eves —might do without the tree.
According to inmates of the Adelaide
Isolation Hospital the “city of culture ’ has
something to teach even Sydney quarantine
station in How to be Insanitary. A state-
ment lias been signed by a number of pati-
ents declaring that recently, when a few
deaths occurred, inmates had been obliged to
eat their dinner within two yards of the
three corpses. There not being sufficient
room at the table, many had to take their
food on the floor. The place was filthy,
dirty rags were lying about, and the food was
unfit for human consumption. It is also
stated that mild cases have been placed in
the same room as people suffering from the
real thing. It am say Smith (chairman of
the Central Board of Health) says he courts
investigation, which, at any rate, is more
than anybody does in connection with North
Head, at Sydney. When people get sick of
the mismanagement there they simply give
notice that they will walk out in a body
next day; and then instructions are issued
to let them out. That happened again- -
with the Nevasa men—lo or 12 days ago.
“Camelero” : Every Digger who carried a
rifle in Egypt knew that trouble was brew-
ing. A rising on a grand scale was timed
to take place the moment Abdul crossed the
Canal. When the Turk failed, and started
to fade away beyond Sinai, with Billjim at
his heels, the Gyppos oiled and planted their
arms for a more suitable occasion. They
reckoned that it had arrived when Allenby
and a couple of divisions had left Egypt.
They were well armed before the war, and
they managed to become better armed during
the war. More than one member of the
Camel Corps when at Abassia, near Cairo,
woke up in the morning to find his rifle and
bandolier gone. The desert Bedouins gen-
erally possess a couple of ancient Turkish
rifles or revolvers, and when Allenby
started his big push toward Damascus they
added to their armory by plundering cap-
tured dumps and disappearing. On one
occasion a couple of machine-guns went in
that way. But as usual the Gyppos found
that their plans were known, and they
weren’t able to mobilise and do any big mis-
chief.
High Commissioner Fisher has broken a
long silence at, £5OOO a year to declare in
London that ttrere is no truth in the state'
ment, made by a doctor on the spot, that 23
per cent, of the population on the Queens-
land coast, especially in the tropics, are
afflicted with hookworm. In pursuance of
his job (£5OOO a year), which includes the
attracting of immigrants, Fisher points out.
quite truly, that Queensland has one of the
smallest death-rates in the world, far less
than that of the British Islands and Europe
in general. As recently as 1906 it even beat
all the other Australian States for healthi-
ness, but in the first nine months of 1918 it
only ranked fifth and was slightly worse than
the average. This may be hookworm or it
may be something else. Probablv it is
something else. For hookworm, though a
very common and widespread disease, does
no sensational killing, but it docs produce
stunted children and mental deficients. For-
tunately it is easily curable, provided it is
attacked scientifically; but if excited public
servants (£5OOO a vear) deny its existence,
they may get in the way of scientific treat-
ment.


The BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY COMPANY LIMITED
Head Office: Equitable Building', Collins Street, Melbourne
riine=owners. Iron and Steel Masters.
MANUPACT URKRS OF
PIG IKON', BILLETS, BLOOMS, STEEL RAILS, STRUCTURAL STEEL, MERCHANT BARS, WIRE RODS,
SULPHATE OF AMMONIA, etc.
£3.000.000, in 3,000,000 shares of £1 each.
£2,100,000, in 2,100,000 shares of £1 each, fully paid.
£1.000,000
151,300
£818,700
BRANCH OFFICES LONDON—3 Great Winchester Street. SYDNEY—2S O’Connell Street. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street
WORKS: —NEWCASTLE, BROKEN HILL, HUMMOCK HILL, DEYONPORT.
Authorised Capital
Paid-up Capital
6% Debenture Issue
Less Redeemed ....
THE BROKEN HTLL PROPRIETARY
COMPANY LIMITED.
REGISTRATION OF DEBENTURES
and FEDERAL INCOME TAX.
The Company would remind Holders of Deben-
tures that a Register has been established, and the
Registration of Debentures may be effected at any
time without cost.
The advantage of holding a Registered Debenture
as against an unregistered Bearer Debenture is obvi-
ous, but registration also relieves the holder from
the liability of having a material deduction made by
the Company of Federal Income Tax from each
Interest Coupon.
Under the Act (see Section 16, Federal Income
Tax 1915-1918) the Company may be assessed for
Income Tax on all Debentures remaining unregis-
tered, and such assessment, if made at the current
rate of tax, would amount to about 235. per £3 Coupon.
The inconvenience to which holders of Bearer
Debentures will be put if such a deduction is made
can be avoided if they change their debentures to
"Registered” Debentures, which may, if required, be
reconverted to “Bearer” Debentures at any time also
without charge.
This change, to be effective, should be made prior
to the Ist Jlll3', 1919, when the next interest pay-
ment falls due.
Debentures should be lodged at the Company’s Office,
Equitable Building, Melbourne, for the purposes of
Registration and endorsement, and must have
Coupons attached. p M di CKENSO n, Secretary.
28th February, 1919.
POLITICAL
POINTS
O.B.F.—Order of the Unballasted.
When Mr. Watt got going it took him
about one minute to put up the price of
coal against local manufacturers by ss. a
ton, which to one big industry means about
£55,000 a year added to the cost of produc-
tion, and £55.000 more advantage to the rival
importer. But it takes Mr. Watt about a
century to put up the tariff to correspond.
He is a streak of lightning in one respect.
In the other a dead tree could give him
10 yards in 100 and beat him easily.
This country having given Britain a lot
of tariff preference, J. Bull proposes to offer
us a speck in return. The things on his
free list will remain free: that is to say,
no trifle of duty will be levied against the
person outside the Empire to give the insider
a chance. On the very few remaining things
the Dominions will be charged one-sixth (say
17 p.c.) less than the foreigner, except on
alcohol, where the advantage will be one-
third. Australia gives a preference to
TOO AMBITIOUS.
THE PRIMARY INDUSTRY FANATIC: “Not
satisfied with milking, you wanter make
the cans! You'll be wanter to make
the soldering iron next!"
Britain on nearly r>oo articles or groups of
articles. Generally it Mves the Britisher
from 25 to 50 p.e. advantage, but in nearly
200 cases it knocks off the whole 100 p.c. in
his favor. This country always was an ass
in business matters.
N. S. Wales has to raise over £11,000,060
in August to renew loans floated from 1909
to 1912 at 3-i or 3| per cent, so it hasn’t
had the use of the money long before trouble
came. It offers 5i per cent, for five years
or 5 per cent, for 10 years, which is a
mighty big increase, and it throws in
exemption from State and Federal income-
tax, which presumably means that the Gov-
ernment will forego the State tax and pay
the Federal tax itself. If inducements of
this sort are required it would be cheaper to
attach a lottery to the loan with an annual
drawing of prizes. Or else give every sub-
scriber of £lO,OOO or more the right to com-
mit bigamy.
Italy looks like thinking better of it and
coming back to the Peace table. Dagoland
came into the alliance after driving a compre-
hensive bargain about the territories it was
to receive, and, with better luck than its coun-
tryman Shylock, it has collected its pound
of meat full weight. But it demanded
Flume, in addition, a place with a mostly
TIER KNIGHT.
GERMANIA (to Wilson ): “You ain't going to
let anyone in there hurt me, are you,
dear?"
Slav people and the onlj\ good port that
Serbia can get to save it from its old disas-
trous luck as an inland State in a chronic
condition of blockade. There is no excuse
save the old gag about being the heir to
Venice; and the excited Romans were pro-
bably glad of the opportunity that Presi-
dent Wilson gave them to talk about his bad
manners instead of the justice of their own
claim.
Ex-Treasurer Jimmy Gardiner (W.A.)
explains why he went out: —
I have accumulated heaps of suggestions having
in them the germ of good economy, which I had
hoped to make effective ; but no Treasurer can keep
on fighting heads of departments if those heads find
their evasive efforts and “can’t be dones” endorsed
bv Ministers who desire to live in the public view
as good and clever fellows, and who allow their
colleague to bear the opprobrium of failure, merely
because that colleague happens to control the finan-
cial details of the Government policy.
So far as permanent heads of branches and
departments are concerned, the trouble
mostly is that their services are valued
according to the number of hands they
employ. So they go on devising systems
of circumlocution in order to give clerks
something to do ; and that means waste not
only of money but of the public’s time.
Premier Lee, of Tasmania, in his policy
speech the other day, adopted a slogan which
has been used for years by his Labor oppo-
nents, viz., “Compel the better use of already
alienated land, instead of expensively estab-
lishing settlers up a gully in the wilderness.”
But the only way to compel the owners of
the already railed and roaded and watered
and schooled areas to use their land to the
best advantage is to increase the land-values
tax; and if any member of Lee’s party dared
to pronose: such a thing, every squatter and
“grass parrot” in the island would rise up
and belt him off the political landscape.
Knowing which. Lee declares, in the same
policy speech, that further taxation is un-
necessary.
Maoriland is watching a fine game. In
the intervals of bag-packing last year
Massey and Ward remarked that Arbitra-
tion awards were frequently broken, ami
they told Parliament that the way to pre-
vent such unpleasantness was to give the
Court a power to legally amend awards.
The Court was told by Parliament to con-
sider any increase in the cost of living,
among other things. Now it is snowed up
with applications to review. Then up go the
wages—and of course up goes the cost of
living. Then in goes another application,
and of course up go the wages. So it pro-
mises to go on and on. The thing is humor-
ous from one point of view; but as nobody
can tender for a job and know what his
wages bill will be, he is simply a gambler
and the public mostly pays for his risks.
Melbourne item for the bone-drys to brood
over:—
When Mr. Goldspink attended the City Court
yesterday (April 24) to deal with eases of drunken-
ness, he was confronted with a clean sheet. In
announcing Sergeant Gable said that since the
amendment of the Licensing Act, which gave the
Police increased powers, there had been a steady
decline in the number of inebriates.
A clean sheet and the hotels going full
blast! There was anything but a clean
sheet in Sydney when they were supposed
to be shut on account of the first lot of ’flu
restrictions. A Licenses Reduction Board
such as Victoria’s, and a general tightening
up of regulations, can do what prohibition
can’t.
A while ago representatives of certain
British export houses waited on Massy
Greene, Minister for Customs,
and implored him to see that
they had at least 20 per cent,
preference as against the
Yankee. They expected the
Yankee to howl like fury, and
as he didn’t they set out to find
n reason for the suspicious
silence. What they discovered
was that the Yankee, taking
preference for granted, had de-
cided to put himself on a better
wicket to compete with the Brit-
ish manufacturer by setting up
factories in Australia and get-
ting the full benefit of the tariff.
Probably Massy Greene is now
wondering why the agents of the
British houses haven’t worried
him any further about that pre-
ference. They haven’t even told
him that, after all, they think
they had better let sleeping dogs
lie, and that preference doesn’t
always work out the way it is intended to.
The party politician is a humorous bird.
Lyons, Labor Opposition-leader in Tas-
mania, has issued a programme which he
says will save the country. Lee, the Pre-
mier, has also issued a programme, and some
of it is very like the Opposition’s. But
Lyons, instead of giving, three cheers and
imploring Lee to adopt all the rest and so
save the country altogether, calls it “an in-
decent annexation of the Labor party’s
policy.” So the pretty game goes on —the
pretty game for which the fool public pays.
Lawyer-ridden Governments have a mania
for appealing from court to court, feeding
their brother-sharks as they go. The X. S.
Wales crowd’s last notable performance was
to go to the Supreme Court to “test”' the
decision of an S.M. who said in effect that a
chemist wasn’t compelled by law to either
weigh or measure a toothbrush before hand-
ing it to a customer. Actually the case was
brought with regard to a packet of toilet
paper, but. as .Justice Ferguson scornfully
remarked, the principle that applies to toilet
paper applies equally to toothbrushes. Evi-
dently this country has tons of money to
burn.
There is a nice little [dot ripening in S.
Aus. The idea is to give the metropolitan
area proportional representation in three big
districts, but to cut up the countrv into
single-seat electorates. It is a political trick
of the “Nationalists" designed to secure
adequate representation to the anti-demo-
cratic professional and commercial minority
in the city and suburbs, while cutting out
the democratic minority in the country.
Gerrymandering used to be pretty well con-
fined to the carving up of electorates so as
to suit the party in power. Parties now
gerrymander the whole electoral system.
The Holman Government will get all the
glory and all the political support that can
be_ extracted from its great Sydney house-
building scheme, and posterity will pay the
bill. The Savings Bank is to advance as
much as 95 per cent, of the cost of houses at
the present boom valuations. Experience
shows that it is often a losing business to
advance 73 or even GO p.c., for the borrower
frequently defaults, leaving a heap of arrears
and a dilapidated tenement behind him, and
booms aren’t always eternal. But the trans-
actions will probably spread over 23 vears,
and the losses needn’t be faced till 1945.
Somebody else will have to face them then.
The Government would probably fall down
dead if it was proposed to back the venture
with a reserve fund out of revenue.
Seizing an opportunity afforded him when
city councillors called to see him about some-
thing else, Arthur. Robinson, Vic. Minister
of Works, made it clear that the Government
does not intend to compete with existing
concerns in supplying electricity by retail,
but will sell it in bulk in Melbourne and in
places between the source of supply (Mor-
well) and the city. Which is all quite right
so long as the middlemen are all right. What
does the Government propose to do to pro-
tect the public in its dealings with them?
“Eyes Front” (from Belgium) : lit l is a
wily bird, this German. Whether he blusters
or cringes, he’s always worth watching. The
Allies hadn’t long been occupying the Rhine
provinces before he began “making friends”
with the soldier rank and tile, and suggesting
that, after all, it was immaterial to “common
soldiers” whether the war was won or lost.
This friendliness appears to be organised: it
has evidently struck somebody that it may be
easier and cheaper for the Hun trader to
regain the goodwill of the late enemy peoples
through their soldiers than by plastering
their hoardings after peace.
Victoria’s Government, if it is alive next
month, is going to celebrate an achievement.
The feat, which Barnes, Minister of Rail-
ways, will publish to an admiring public, is
the building of 14 miles of line in five years,
allegedly to tap the timber resources of the
I.atrobe valley. It doesn't tap them,
because timber cos. will still have to build
many more miles of track, but the fact that
the Government of a Sovereign State has
managed to lay a line at the rate of 440 yds.
a month is something to make a fuss about.
The returned Diggers will think a lot of it,
anyhow.
There are 6,000,000 bushels of wheat
stored at Sta Well (Vic.), awaiting ship-
ment, and as the nearest and therefore
natural harbor is Portland, the citizens of
that place have' been urging State and Fed-
eral Governments to send some of the wheat-
carriers thither. Both parties have ex-
pressed overwhelming sympathy with the
policy of decentralisation and an enthusi-
astic desire to use Portland's splendid shift-
ping facilities, as well as save time and
freight, but so far the sole result of Port-
land’s effort has been a declaration by the
Lawson Ministry that wheat ships, being
under Imperial control, could not possibly be
diverted from Melbourne or Geelong. If
any wandering tramp happened along looking
for wheat they would try to persuade it to
visit Portland. That township begins to
understand a Bolshevik's emotions when he
first breaks out.
S.O.S.
Many a neutral hasn’t been in a hurry to
have Peace signed. Through an oversight
when agreements were made with these people,
the chartering of vessel's was for the ‘’period
of the war” instead of “during hostilities.”
and these contracts were not affected by the
signing of the armistice. So Britain and the
U.S. are still paying fabulous prices for
Scowegian and other ships plying in the war
zon e.
A CROWNING INFAMY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Tudor protested against the Federal Govern-
ment's policy of ‘robbing' the kiddies’ by taxing
children's tickets at picture-shows.”
Oh, weep ye for the children, the darling little
lovies,
Who earn their pocket-money by the washing cf
their brow ;
They used to pay a * “tanner” for admission to the
movies—■
A shameless, grasping Government is taxing of
’em now.
Oh, the money-raising measure
Makes a profit on the pleasure
Of the worker’s “household treasure”:
It is robbery —wow, wow!
The tender heart of Tudor is witli indignation swell-
ing ;
He views the situation with a sigh of bitter woe :
The tax lias cast a shadow in the worker’s humble
dwelling,
Whence kiddies, oozing laughter, to their Charlie
Chaplin go.
Though untaxed they play at cricket,
Or at football, when they kick it,
There’s a ha’p’ny on the ticket
For the moving-picture show.
lie the matter of the Tariff Tudor doesn’t truly
worry—
lie camouflaged the question in the happy long-
ago.
He beams upon all workers who are never in a hurry
And reg. late their output by the law of Going
Slow.
Bi t how great his agitation
When the rulers o f the nation
Tax the kiddies' recreation
Ac the moving-picture show !
VICTORIA.
FAX.


AND THE TREE GOES ON STANDING.


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd
Registered Brand.
Producers of Lead in the following forms —
Refined Lead, Corroding Lead, Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated),
Super-refined Lead, Chemical Lead.
Also of —
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated), Spelter,
and the following Alloys and Metallic Products—
Antimonial Lead, Linotype Metal, Litharge (Industrial and Assay),
Bearing Metals, Leaded Zinc Pigments, Blue Powder.
Purchasers on a Specially Favorable Tariff of Silicious Silver-Lead Ores, Slags, etc.,
containing Silver and Lead. Lead Drosses, Zinc Drosses.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE—
H. Li. SHACKELL. Secretary.
LONDON OFFICE: TINNERS HALE. AUSTIN FRIARS, E.C. 2
A. .1. SMTTH. London Secretary.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 25 O’CONNELL. STREET, SYDNEY—
R. N. KIRK (Agent).
ADELAIDE OFFICE: 62 BROOKMAN'S BUILDING, ADELAIDE—
A. W. LEWTS (Agent).
SMELTING WORKS. FORT PIRIE, S.A.
COKE WORKS, BELLAMBI, N.S.W.
NOBEL-CLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dyn
amite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
STEEL CASTINGS.
We make the FINEST STEEL CASTINGS obtainable
ranging in weight from a Pound or so up to
SIX or EIGHT TONS; also MANGANESE STEEL
CASTINGS of best quality.
It will be to your interest to let us have your enquiries.
Chas. Ruwolt Pty. Ltd.,
Victoria Street, Richmond,
Victoria.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australian Metropolitan Life Assur-
ance Co., Ltd., from the time the manage-
ment gave up the had habit of lumping its
Ordinary and Industrial figures :
Ordinary Department.
Added to
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. Funds. Funds.
1911. . £12,582 £2651 £5212 £4,719 £36,636
Transferred to Industrial Funds, £1046 35,590
1912.. 14,961 2073 5979 6,909 42,499
1913.. 10,746 3572 6063 7,111 49,610
1914.. 17,964 3351 6206 8,407 58,017
1915.. 19,104 4999 5976 8,129 06,146
1916.. 20,650 5060 5044 10,540 76,692
1917.. 21,939 0581 4123 11,230 87,922
1918.. 25,840 6932 6536* 12,372 100,294
including bonus to shareholders, £458.
Industrial Department.
Added to
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. Funds. Funds.
1911. . £22,940 £6,141 £15,336 £1469 £24,373
Transferred from Ordinary Dept. 1046 25,419
1912.. 27,065 5,788 4,556 29,975
1913.. 31,004 8,880 19,208 2,916 32,891
1914.. 35,914 14,353 20,729 832 33,723
1915.. 38,961 8,680 21,002 9,219 42,942
1916.. 44,142 11,147 23,711 9,284 52,226
1917.. 50,812 15,762 25,529 9,521 61,747
1918.. 55,654 18,538 28,858 8,258 70,005
It is no use going back beyond 1911, because
prior to that date the affairs of the two
departments were combined. A few years
earlier Accident business was also mixed
with the figures; but in 1908 the Accident
interests were disposed of “upon satisfactory
terms,” and new Articles were adopted, in-
cluding an instruction that
the Board shall cause a valuation to be made of the
business of the Ordinary department in force on
December 31, 1912, and a sum sufficient to meet the
liability of the co. in respect of the Ordinary depart-
ment as ascertained by such valuation, together with
such bonus as the Board may declare, shall be set
aside, and, together with all receipts in respect of
business transacted in the Ordinary department, shall
form the Ordinary Fund ; and the remaining funds of
the co. at the time of such valuation together with
all receipts in respect of business transacted in the
Industrial department shall form the Industrial Fund.
This investigation is alleged to have un-
earthed a surplus of £2SB6 in the Ordinary
department ; but the position regarding this
co.’s valuations is entirely unsatisfactory. No
actuarial report is available ; and nowadays
the directors do not even worry to mention
that the usual quinquennial overhaul has
been made. No provision is made in the
Articles for the presentation of these reports
even to shareholders, and the management
confesses that “it is not proposed to go to
the expense of printing” them. Both share-
holders and policyholders are quite in the
dark as to how the reported surpluses were
arrived at. It should not be so; and The
Bulletin again invites the attention of the
Commonwealth Parliament to the rottenness
of existing laws, which allow life cos. to hold
and canvass for what are nothing less than
trust funds without publicly producing an in-
dependent exnert opinion of how policy-
holders’ interests are safeguarded.
. In the absence of an actuarial report show-
ing the basis of valuation of policies and the
extent of liabilities to policyholders, The
Bulletin has turned to the meagre informa-
tion provided by the State Statistician. Going
back in the records, it appears that in 1907
the co. was valuing its policies on the basis
of an assumed interest of “34 p.c. through-
out.” Five years later, when the arrangement
mentioned above was given effect to and an
Ordinary surplus of £2886 was disclosed,
interest assumed was “34 p.c. and 4 p.c."
llow much of its liabilities the co. measured
up on this increased interest basis cannot be
ascertained without the actuary’s report;
but the assumption of funds earning 4 p.c.
was not justified by then-current experience.
The interest earnings on average funds in
1911 were only £2 IGs. 9d. p.c.; for 1912,
£3 os. 4d. p.c.. TIPs paper cannot say that
the surplus of £2886 at Dec., 1912, was ob-
tained bv assuming a rate of interest in ex-
cess of what the co. was actually then earning,
but clearly some of the surplus was obtained
in t at way if the interest rates were lifted
as the official figures indicate. And how
did the anticipated interest rates work out?
® Hr the five years to Dec., 1917, the interest
earned on average funds was £3 6s. p.c..
which falls somewhat short of 3J p.c. and
I ?. a \ on £ way from 4 p.c. Meantime, while
this little concern with some indifferent assets
on its books has lifted it» assumed interest
rate, the big offices with a healthy lot of
investments have been cutting the old 34 p.c.
to 3 p.c., and in practically no case is 4 p.c.
assumed, though funds are in a number of
instances actually earning over 5 p.c. At
the close of 1917, again working on the 31
and 4 p.c. basis, the Metropolitan produced
a surplus of £4708 in the Ordinary depart-
ment, and of that shareholders got £458.
This is the only taste they have had; but
small though the amount distributed was,
The Bulletin doubts whether one penny of
it should have gone out of the office.
Here is the position of both departments
as revealed by amalgamating the Government
Statistician’s figures and the funds disclosed
in the balance-sheets: —
Estimated
Liability to
Funds. Policyholders.
1907 S Industrial } £26 ’ 209 j } Deficit ’ f 12 ’ 095
... f Ordinary 42,499 39,013 Surplus, 2,880
1 Industrial 29,975 44,621 Deficit, 14,646
(Ordinary 87,922' 83,154 Surplus, 4,768
l Industrial 61,747 75,054 Deficit, 13,307
That latest disclosed position, after 22 years
in business, does not provoke cheers. Paid
capital is £11,839, which, on the co.’s own
showing, was insufficient to meet Industrial
liabilities not- otherwise provided for at
Dec., 1917. However, besides the amount
put up by shareholders, there is still
£BlOl of capital callable; so, if the
valuations were all right, policyholders were
fairly well protected. The investment of
the funds is now much better than it used
to be, though there is one very lame nag
among the assets: the £10,750 “investment
in public c 0.,” which represents the holding in
the Metropolitan Fire and General. This
is the concern which took over the Accident
business 10 years ago, and which allotted
£15,000 in shares to the parent for the privi-
lege of receiving business which was bring-
ing in something like £5OOO per annum in
premiums. What is the present health of
this struggling infant The Bulletin does
not know. AYhen last heard of it was gasp-
ing for breath, and had given up all but its
Accident interests. Anyhow, before share-
holders should receive a crumb the broom
should be got to work on this “asset.” Of
the £182,138 combined policyholders’ and
shareholders’ funds, over 51 p.c.- is now in
public securities and 29 p.c. in freehold
property.
The balance-sheet gives practically no in-
formation on the matter of the business
which the co. is holding, tbousli there is
some noise as to the new policies that are
written. But the N.S.W. Statistical
Register shows that though urogress is slow
some headway is being made. In 1908 in
the Ordinary branch there were 986 policies
in force, assuring £83.822, and giving an
annual income of £3850. At Dec., 1917.
there were 1913 policies assuring £199.439
and producing £8739 of income per annum.
Over the same period the Industrial depart-
ment has expanded from 15,715 policies
assuring £523.547 and giving an income of
£24,485. to 18.748 policies, £528,855 of assur-
ance and £29,055 of income. But it has
been in the matter of exes, that the mrst
marked improvement has been shown. The
Ordinary expense rate of 41.4 p.c. of income
for 1911 has been reduced to 23.5 p.c. The
co. has been hustling for new business lately,
and the new policies have not been so costly
as they used to be. Adopting The Bulle-
tin’s practice of assuming that the renewal
business cost 7 p.c. to handle (though it is
probably more in this case), the new business
in 1911 cost 144 p.c. of the first year’s
premiums, and last year 115 p.c., which is a
substantial improvement and not excessive
for a small concern which has to struggle
hard to get business. In the Industrial de-
partment the expense rate has been reduced
from 66.9 p.c. in 1911 to 51.9 last year.
Incidentally, last year’s interest earning
worked out at £4 4s. lOd. p.c. on mean
funds, but why there should have been a
leap of 14s. Id. p.c. in one year and 18s. lQd.
on the average of the previous five years is
not explained; though remodelled premises
have probably helped. However, if chair-
man his Honor Judge Hamilton and his
directors will bring an actuary’s report into
the daylight. The Bulletin will feel better
satisfied about the affairs of the Australian
Metropolitan Life. Surely there is nothing
to hide?
Wunderlich, Ltd., manufacturers of ceil-
ing and roofing materials, etc. Apparently
the co. paid £64,289 for goodwill, and later
items brought the total to £65,702, at which
figure it now stands. In the following table
goodwill is not reckoned as an asset:—
Dividends.
/ A ,
Net Pref. To Re-
Feb., Profits. 7 n.c. Ordinarv. serves. Deficit.
1911.. £22,916 £2BOO 9 p.c. = £11.033 £9.083 £39,053
1912.. 30,405 2800 91,, „ 11,646 15,959 23,094
1913.. 34,071 2800 10 ~ „ 12,259 19,012 4,082
Reserves.
1914.. 32,877 3821 10 „ „ 13,599 15,457 11,375
1915.. 23,635 5600 71 „ „ 10,694 7,341 18,716
1916.. 20,450 5600 71 ~ „ 10,694 4,156 22,872
1917.. 22,810 5600 8 ~ „ 11,407 5,803 28,675
1918.. 22.931 5600 9 ~ „ 12.834 4 497 33,172
1919.. 25,961 5600 10 .. „ 15,739 4,622 37,794
Six years ago the Wunderlichs introduced a
profit-sharing scheme, under which employees
get a cut from surplus profits after specified
rates of dividend have been paid. In addi-
tion to the figures shown above, the following
profits have gone in purchasing staff part-
ners’ certificates and in paying divs. and
bonuses upon them: —1915, £405; 1910,
£BOO ; 1917. £977 ; 1918, £2328 ; 1919. £7215.
To what extent the co. has benefited from
the scheme is not clear from the accounts ;
for since the building boom burst and sup-
plies became erratic and costly, the concern
has been experiencing abnormal conditions.
The result is that, even with the employees’
cut added to net profits, the results are con-
siderably poorer than they were five or six
years ago, when paid capital was much
smaller. Also the scheme will have to
expand and stand the test of many years
before it can he definitely ascertained
whether such a profit-sharing arrangement is
the best solution of the labor problem.
Though profits have not been so good dur-
ing the recent unsettled years, by keeping
the div. down the co. has gained further
strength. In its 12 years it has established
a reserve against goodwill (£(>5.702) and
accumulated a further £37,794 of surplus
profits —which is good going. The co.’s
interests are also being widened, and during
the past term Durabestos, Ltd.. Wunderlich
and Steelart, Ltd., and Grant and Cocks,
Ltd., have been taken over, 30,831 ordinaries
having been issued in part payment. Also
it intended to put out the remaining
40,578 unissued ordinaries, making the nomi-
nal capital of £300.000 fully paid un. and
probably some of this will go towards the
purchase of these new businesses. This
shows the balance-sheet position at Feb. 28,
compared with other years:—
1912. 1918. 1919.
Shareholders’ capital . . £162,591 £222,591 £259,422
Employees’ capital .. 9,470 14 040
Liabilities . . . . 51,162 8?’,493 133’,116
Freeholds .. .. 52,416 125,255 147,368
Leaseholds . . . . 10,493 345 3,007
Plant, etc 34,020 65,771 107,057
Stocks 55,970 52,563 130.911
Book debts ... ... 35,965 44,543 43.701
Cash and .investments.. 4.227 71,784 21,863
Other assets . . . . 5,097 2,723 2,294
In the seven years capital has increased by
£96 831 and liab'lities by £81,954; together
£178,785. No less than £160,503 of this
has gone into property and plant. Mean-
time, stocks, book debts and other more or
less liquid assets have expanded by £97,510.
That shows an improvement of close upon
£BO,OOO since 1912, and £14,040 of these
added assets has gone into trust for
employees. With a return to normal condi-
tions the co. should do very well; it now has
plant with a book value three times as large
as seven years ago to earn dividends on a
capital which, when fully paid up, will be
practically double what it used to be.
Elder’s Trustee and Executor Co.
(Adelaide) :—-
Mar., Profits. Dividends. To Reserves. Reserves.
1911.. £468 Nil £468 £lO
1912.. 425 Nil 425 435
1913.. 1722 Nil 1722 2157
1914.. 2435 6 p.c. =£l2oo 1235 3392
1915.. 1883 6 ~ ~ 1200 683 4075
1916.. 2045 6 „ „ 1200 845 4920
1917.. 2855 8 „ „ 1600 1255 6175
1918.. 3165 8 „ ~ 1600 1565 7740
1919.. 3541 10 „ ~ 2000 1541 9281
The trustee co. has become very popular in
S. Aus., and the State now has three con-
cerns reaching out after the dead man’s
money: the 40-year-old Exec., Trustee and
Agency Co., Bagot’s (launched from the
slips of Bagot. Shakes and Lewis) and
Elder’s, which has the weight of the old
Elder-Smith firm behind it. The last has
been a phenomenal success. This shows the
growth of trust funds since the co.’s first
balance;—•
1911 .. £53,562 | 1917 ..£2,460,347
1913 . . 525,268 | 1918 . . 2,779,039
1915 .. 1,405,146 | 1919 . . 3,217,709
And the other cos. have not been hurt in
the crush. The old Exec., Trustee, and
Agency Co. was administering £2,309,316 of
funds when Elder’s pushed into the business.
At Sept, last it had £3.500,0Q0 under super-
vision. Meantime, Bagot’s, which does not
disclose the value of the estates it admin-
isters, has done so well that net profits last
year represented 16 p.c. of its paid capital.
Between them the E., T. and A. and
Elder’s have in nine years trebled the
holding of estates by S.A. cos. whose
sole job is to be expert in trust admin-
istration. It is a record the Slate should
be proud of. No matter how efficient
the private trustee may be, he cannot offer
several of the advantages the specialist co
can. The co. does not die; its officers wear
out, Of course, but there are always others
who have absorbed what the old hands could
teach them. It is always on the spot and
alert when required (particularly when the
tax-collector is looking for an argument)
and it never knocks off work to go and back
a winner or take a hand in poker with the
funds it forgot to bank. Moreover, it puts
up a bond to be of good behavior and not
make foolish blunders.
When Elder’s hung out its sign people were
found who said they were willing to put up
£lOO,OOO if required; no doubt if the pro-
moting concern had asked for 10 times that
amount it would have been offering. How-
ever, to start with, the eo. said it wanted
only £20,000, so the 100..000 £1 shares are
not paid beyond 4s. each. Already there
are reserves of £BOOO accumulated, so there
is at present a guarantee fund of £28,000, all
of it in Government securities; and there is
a further £80.030 callable. And it is neces-
sary only to glance at the list of shareholders
accompanying the annual report to see that
they are good marks. Probably something
further will be called up soon, for profits are
becoming uncomfortable; last year’s net
earnings were equal to over 17£ p.c. on the
paid capital. Shareholders are doing won-
derfully well; the ease with which the present
10 p.c. is paid after so short a life is prob-
ably a record in trustee co. history.
* * * -4
An interesting table accompanies this
year’s A.M.P. report showing the distribu-
tion of the Society’s business: —
, —O rd ina rv. —* , —I ndustrial.— N
No. of Sum No. of Sum
Policies. Assured. Policies. Assured.
N. S. .Wales. . 91,741 £27,939,150 04,153 £2,398,772
Victoria .. 94,850 23,117,330 47,971 1,884,036
Queensland .. 31,808 10,002,364 21,889 ,'19,855
S. Aus. .. 28,640 7,483,190 12,202 435,826
Westralia .. 10,549 5,561,167 12,650 512,553
Tasmania .. 9,696 2,900,897 4,576 160,983
Maoriland .. 53,053 17,009.023 33,658 1,362,258
Elsewhere . . 5,975 3,444,219 Nil Nil
The Maoriland figures are very interesting,
as the Society is competing with a State
office. A dissection of tiie “elsewhere”
figures showing the London branch opera-
tions would be even more interesting. The
latest figures The Bulletin can find are
those for 11)10, published by the Board of
Trade. The income that year amounted to
£119,118; claims £91,107. The year’s new
business comprised 250 policies assuring
£145,215, bringing in a yearly premium in-
come of £B4OB-*—about 2 p.c. of the business
written in the Commonwealth last year.
No clue can be got as to the exes, this
London branch is absorbing; but on results
shown The Bulletin doubts whether the
aggregate services of the heavyweight Board
are worth much more than the price of a
meat-pie.
The Emu Bay Railway Co. (Tas-
mania), from the time £05,000 of capital was
written off
Deben- Deficit
Ordinary ture Capi- (Goodwill
ami Pie- tal and Items not
ferential Accrued Divi- Reckoned
Capital. Interest. Profit, dends. Assets).
1907. . £295,000 £205,257 £10,671 £8,750 £99,756
1908.. 295,000 205,175 1,297 Nil 93 459
1909.. 295,000 205,109 6,090 Nil 92’309
Unexplained reserves, £lB3O .. 90,539
1910.. 295,000 193,318 6,198 4,375 88,716
1911.. 295.000 190,711 6,081 4,375 87,010
1912.. 295,000 183,718 10,811 4,375 80,574
1913.. 295,000 190,714 10,195 18,687 89,060
Loss.
1914.. 295,000 191,172 7,261 Nil 96 327
1915.. 295,000 198,009 1,960 Nil 98,’287
Profit.
1910.. 295,000 201,494 401 Nil 97,886
Loss.
1917.. 295,000 203,169 9,061 Nil 106 947
1918.. 295,000 208,961 2,718 Nil ) 10ft(lr
Renewals written off, £10,750 . . J -im.iio
Twenty-two years ago, when the Speck’s
West Coast was in the height of a boom,
this co. took a 99 years’ lease of the Emu
Bay-Bischoff railway at an annual rental of
£lO,OOO. Then it proceeded to open up new
lines. To begin with, the wheels were
clogged _ with £lOO,OOO of goodwill; and
as capital was insufficient to meet the
outlay tlie co. coupled on to a heavy
load of 5 p.c. debentures. Very shortly
the boom fizzled out; and the co. has
never had a chance. Nowadays it can-
not even meet its current exes. When
the co. was 10 years old ss. per share
of the ordinaries’ capital was swept away.
There are 100,000 8 p.c. £1 prefs. (4 p.c,
cumulative), and five years’ dividends re-
mained unpaid at December 31 last. Besides
this, some years ago a further £12,000 of
accumulated unpaid divs. were funded, and
the co. undertook to wipe off the debt at the
rate of £5OO per annum. But it has not been
able to shift any of this load, and the debt
J™ wn £17.911. Further, it owes
iob.doL in deferred rent and debenture in-
terest. The past couple of years have been
unusually bad. In 1917 floods washed away
■ River br 'dge, but instead of costing
re P la . ce the job ran away with
£ <oo9, £5098 of which was charged to main-
tenance and £l9ll to capital. Last year the
co. discovered that 30 miles of line required
new rails, and £lO,OOO at least will have to
be expended. Allowing for this outlay the
eo. has drifted this way in five years:—
~ , 1913. 1917. 1918.
More or less liquid assets.. £15,572 £ 17,716 £lB 202
Liabilities (apart from
debentures) . . . . 21,448 44.158 56,152
Excess liabilities .. £5,876 £26,442 £37,950
So though not a div. of any sort has been
£ a l d since 1913, the co. has gone over
±02,000 to the bad. As to prospects, much


Wolfram, Scheelite
and Molybdenite.
PRICES AT PRODUCING CENTRES:
MOLYBDENITE:
85 per cent, or over, 100/- for each
unit MOS 2.
WOLFRAM AND SCHEELITE.
65 per cent, or over, 52/6 for each
unit WO3.
Enquiries Invited relative to
LOWER GRADES of the above
Minerals.
DALGETY 8 CO. LTD.,
Commonwealth, Government Agents.
THE MUTUAL LIFE
and CITIZENS’
ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
HAS AN
EMPLOYERS’
INDEMNITY POLICY
that meets exactly your requirements.
Under Emp oyers’ Liability and Workmen's
Compensation Aots.
When making a Will or Settlement
appoint The
Union Trustee
Company of Australia Ltd.
Your EXECUTOR or TRUSTEE.
The only Trustee Company with branches
in more than one State.
NEW SOUTH WALES. VICTORIA.
QUEENSLAND.
Sydney Office, 48 Young Street.
Directors: Hon. Sir Charles If. Mackellar,
K.C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman) ; Hon. James
Ashton, M.L.C.; Hon. 11. Y. Buaddon,
M.L.C.; F. B. S. Falkinkr, M.H.R., James
Kidd ; W. H. Mack at, R. M. Pitt, and
Duncan Sinclair.
V. G. Watson,
Assistant Manager.
J. Mair,
Manager.
There are many mornings when a tire is unneces-
sary, but when there is just enough chill in the air
t-o make you uncomfortable while dressing. \V hy run
a risk of catching cold when the turn of a switch,
connected to a (1. E. Radiator, will send a warm, sun-
shiny glow through the room? IVe have in stock
G. E. Luminous Radiators in various sizes and pat-
terns. Let us demonstrate to you the value of this
modern electric comfort. Australian General Electric
Company, Wentworth Avenue, Sydney; and corner of
Queen and Little Collins streets, Melbourne.— Advt.
Conserved water, especially in country districts,
quickly becomes contaminated. To drink such water
exposes one to grave danger from disease. Alummo-
ferric quickly clarifies and purifies water in dams,
tanks, etc. You use it in the proportion of lib. to
every 3000 gallons of water. Most effective and quite
harmless. Used by leading Water Supply Boards
throughout Australia. William Adams & Co., Ltd.,
175 Clarence Street, Sydney. Melbourne: 521-3 Col-
lins Street. Adelaide: 96 Currie Street. Brisbane:
Corner Edward and Mary Streets. Perth: 33 King
Street. — Advt. I s
Modern methods of metal concentration require
fine and efficient grinding devices, and the tube mill
is becoming more widely used every day. Present
conditions prohibit the importation of machinery
from abroad, so that we have to fall back on our
home manufactures. The Austral Otis Engineering
Co. of Melbourne manufacture tube mills of any size,
as well as grinding machines of every description
They are also makers of the famous Hardinge Conical
Mills, which have made a name for themselves in
America.— Advt. [1
Pioneer Wood Stave Pipe.—A Record Delivery!
An order for 24 miles of Bin. Pioneer Wood
Stave Pipe from the N. S. Wales Government
Railways and Tramways was recently completed
in a period of eight days. The above
pipes were required urgently to convey water to
the township of Goulburn, where the reservoir was
nearly depleted. We are prepared to supply large
quantities of Wood Stave Pipe at short notice. Send
for illustrated Catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe
Co. Ltd. (Head Office), Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove,
N.S.W. P.O. Address: Box 1576 G.P.0., Sydney.
Contractors to all State Governments.— Advt.
* * * W
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorney,
for information. Address: 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.—Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink’s Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney ; tel. City 2723. — Advt.
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Giimwade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.— Advt.
» * » *
Road-graders for building good roads, for making
and grading earth roads, cleaning out water tables,
making fire-breaks, etc. We carry large stocks of the
best procurable and most up-to-date machines.
Several different sizes stocked to be worked by two,
four or eight horses or traction-engine power. Cata-
logues and full particulars upon application. Arthur
Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay East, Sydney
Queensland inquiries: The Australian Machinery Co.,
Mary Street, Brisbane.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Codlison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. 11. B. Selbv &Co
Ltd. 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street, Melb.— Advt.
. T - H - Palmer, 8.E., Fel. Chem. Soc., etc., consult-
ing _ engineer valuing, organising, technical advice,
mining, metallurgy, flotation and selective flotation
processes. Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 Pitt
„ Sydney. Cables and Telegrams: “Remlap,
Melbourne. —Advt.
The Sydney Export Co., 68 \ Pitt Street, Sidney,
has a specially-designed plant for the treatment of
complex ores. Separation of wolfram, tin. copper,
molybdenite and bismuth a specialty. Highest price
given, prompt cash settlement.— Advt.
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Loss of Profits
Insure in
Tk ‘ 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
CF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital . £250,000
Subscribed Capital .. 194,235
Paid-up Capital .. 96,497
Income (Cross) 1918 .. 457,852
El nbh'shed I'JIO.
AGENTS WANTED,
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
Legal Notice.
|> E MARY COOPER; Deceased!
Pursuant to an Order dated the 11th November,
1918, of the High Court of Justice (England),
Chancery Division,, made ‘in re MARY COOPER,
Spinster, deceased, Cooper v. Battams, 1918, C. 770,
an Inquiry was directed, who, upon the death of
the abovenamed Mary Cooper, deceased, became bene-
ficially entitled to any personal estate of the said
Mary Cooper as to which she died intestate, and if
more than one in what shares and proportions, and
whether any such persons are since dead, and if so
when they died, and who are their legal personal
representatives. All persons claiming to be entitled
under the said inquiry are bv themselves or their
Solicitors on or before the 30th day of June, 1919,
to come in and enter their CLAIMS at the
of Mr. Justice Sargant in a book kept for that pur-
pose in Room No. 293, Royal Courts of Justice,
Strand, London, England, or in default thereof the.'
will be peremptorily excluded from the benefit of
the said Order.
AVednesday, the 9th day of Julv, 1919. at 12
9’clock noon, at the said Chambers (Room No. 292),
is appointed for hearing and adjudicating upon the
claims.
Dated this 16th dav of December, 191 S.
R. T. YVATKIN WILLIAMS,
Master.
NOTE.—The abovenamed Mary Cooper, deceased,
late of 23 Dufferne-road, Upper Tooting, Surrey,
England, died 10th November, 1917. She was the
daughter of Nathan Cooper and Elenor Cooper (nee
Battams). The following persons, if actually living
at the date of the death of the said Mary Cooper,
may be entitled to share in the distribution of the
estate:—(l) Romana Cade and Harriet Cade,
daughters of Julia Cooper and James Edward Cade.
(2) Caroline Cooper, who is believed to have mar-
ried one Dibben, or their children, if any, if the said
Caroline Cooper died before the said 10th November,
1917. (3) The children of Elizabeth Cooper and
A\ T illiam Shaw who in 1862 are believed to have
resided in Western Australia. (4) Sophia Cooper,
who married one Dixon, and who are believed to
have resided at Minworth AVater, Orton. Birming-
ham, in the County of Warwick, or their children,
if the said Sophia Cooper died prior to the said
10th November, 1917.
depends on vvliat Lyell can do with the Bead-
Bosebery mines, two of whose directors
(Bowes Kelly and Win. Jamieson) are on
this railway co.’s Board. The future of these
shows is quite uncertain. But even were
the traffic greatly increased, the outlook
for the ordinaries is very gloomy. After
providing the £lO,OOO for renewals and
deducting cash assets, the eo. at present
owes £49,314. wlych is some thousands
more than the total profit earned over the
period covered by the first table. Ahso there
is the £30,000 due to the prefs. After sweep-
ing away these debts, before the ordinaries
could get a taste net profits of £20,000 per
annum would have to be earned to feed
lessors, debenture-holders and prof, share-
holders. Last year exes, absorbed the whole
of the £.18,457 of revenue and £2718 besides;
so only a miracle can give the written-down
ordinaries a dividend.
A.M.C. (Australian Motor Cab), Ltd., is
now at the cemetery, and the funeral is
nearly over. Formed partly in London and
mostly in Sydney to run taxis in Australia,
it had misfortune from its birth. In fact,
before its birth, because it didn't have the
right sort of parents. Capital was pre-
sently cut down by one-half, ordinary shares
getting one for every two in the old co. No
dividend from trading was ever paid, but
shareholders will get in all Bs. llld. per
share out of the liquidation. Of this
amount Is. was paid some time ago, 7s. more
recently and 1181. will be available as a
final dividend after the 19th iust.
The old Adelaide stock-agent firm of
Bennett and Fisher has taken in the firm of
Cheadle and Crase, and becomes a strong
co., Bennett and Fisher, Ltd. The new
directorate brings in three useful family in-
terests controlled by K. I). Bowman, A. A.
Scarfe and A. G. Bymill (chairman).
Douglas Mawson, lately returned from a
war-job, has brought home a definite opinion
as to the uses awaiting Vic.’s brown coal.
While the Government has been trying,
with some noise and no adequate results, to
interest the Melbourne housewife in brown
coal as a cheap domestic fuel, various well-
meaning persons have urged its direct con-
version into electricity. Other chemical
.advisers have thrown cold water on this,
■claiming that two-thirds of the value will
ibe wasted. Mawson states, out of the ful-
ness of his experience, that the best returns
would be those obtained by regarding the
coal as a chemical base for the manufacture
of (1) oils, including heavy fuel oil and
motor spirit; (2) gas for public use and the
production of electricity; and (3) ashes, to
be briquetted or fed loose into furnaces by
jets for producing still more “juice.” He
sees “marvellous possibilities” in the de-
velopment of the Vic. fields on these lines.
* * * *
Melbourne City Electrical-engineer Harper
is to be the man to carry out the electrical
side of the development of the Morwell
brown coal deposits. Harper for a decade
has been running the City electrical works,
and during late years has been burning 20U
tons of the brown stuff weekly under his
boilers. So he has working results to guide
him in his new job. The next thing is to
put a tip-top mining engineer in harness
with Harper, and then shunt the superfluous
fee-drawing Electricity Committee.
i’rof. David, back at Iris old geology job at
Sydney Uni., had a look at the Fortuna
brown coal mines, near Cologne, after the
armistice. Working on the onen-cut system,
a seam up to 200 ft. thick is being dug into
by mechanical miners, rotating steel-cutters
working along the face and automatically
feeding trucks attached to the apparatus.
About one-fourth of the output is despatched
for ordinary fuel requirements, about half
the remainder is converted into briquettes,
and the rest is utilised to create power for
the great Rhineland towns —Cologne, Essen,
Dusseldorf, and so on. The Germans waste
nothing; even the gases used to desiccate the
coal (which contains GO p.c. water) are re-
admitted to the furnaces. Concerning the
manufacture of briquettes, David explains
the mechanical efficiency that has been
attained: —■
The coal is dumped on to machines which tear it
and grind it into rough powder, which is thei» con-
veyed on huge belts, made of paper-compound, to
rotating, conical drying floors. Here all but 18 p.c.
of the moisture is extracted from the powdered coal,
whicli is next conveyed to the hoppers, whence it is
automatically fed into dies and subjected to a
pressure of about 20,0001 b. per sq. in. The
briquettes (about 74in.' by 3in. by 2in.) emerge from
the dies in an endless stream like sausages. About
800 tons are manufactured daily.
At the present rate of output the Fortuna
mines have an estimated life of about 200
years.
* * * *
Arbitration awards and industrial agree-
ments mean little or nothing to Broken Hill;
and another of the field’s innumerable.strikes
is now in progress. It is a faction fight,
no grievance about wages or hours of labor
being involved. All the same, it has at the
moment of writing shut down, among others,
the South, and 1500 men are idle. If the
leaders were wise they would be using all
their political and other power to keep the
men employed just now, especially by offer-
ing to co-operate with the cos. in trying to
get their stuff to the best markets. Appa-
rently the men either don't know or don’t
care, but it is a fact, nevertheless, that the
position of the lead-zinc producers is becom-
ing' very precarious.
Even Amalgamated Zinc has now gone
cold on the B. H. Junction and has issued an
ultimatum to the effect that it would be
better pleased if Junction would stop bend-
ing its ore for treatment. Ever since De
Bavay’s got its special plant at work on
Junction’s output, in August last, there have
been rumors that all was not well. A few
weeks ago Junction directors admitted their
disappointment, and now .Amalgamated
Zinc suspends its contract because deliveries
have been smaller and poorer than antici-
pated. \Vhat Junction is going to do now
The Bulletin has no idea; but the outlook
is just about as black as it has been at any
time in the co.’s switchback existence.
Probably it would save a lot of trouble and
money if Jabez Wright was called in.
Debenture-holders are having the last
word in the British Australian Oil Co., the
English concern which, in 1910, ladled out
90,000 fully-paid £1 shares of its £300,000
capital for a lot of most)y-leasehold property
in the shale country around Murrurundi
and at Capertee (N.S.W.). When the
mines, works, etc., had swallowed all the
available funds, £150,000 was got in by the
issue of 0 p.c. debentures. But the co., as
operated, never had a chance; and after
some years’ meditation, following on its
initial failure, in 1914 made another effort
to get a move on. However, the oil
squeezed out cost more to get than it
was worth, so the Last Post was sounded.
Now debenture-holders are rattling the
bones, tenders being invited for the pur-
chase of the mine properties, works (capable
of retorting 240 tons shale per day), the
refinery (capacity four million gallons per
annum), rolling stock, and the rest of' the
box of tricks.
Gold is standing to Mount Morgan in its
copper troubles, and production continues,
though 3400 tons of red metal have been
piled up since Oct. last. Morgan averages
a recovery of just over Bdwt. gold, and for
the half to Dec. 31 last this met nearly half
the total working charges. Still, produc-
tion cannot go on indefinitely with no copper
market available; and the directors hint that
if prospects don’t brighten soon, they will
have to re-consider the position. Mean-
time, divs. are off.
* * * #
Americans interested in the pink metal
have been trying to assess the quantity of
scrap copper that will be salvaged from the
war zone. Estimates vary from 500,000 to
750,000 tons. Taking the average of the
two, the tonnage would be equal to the pro-
duction of the world for about six months:
but it will take many years to salvage, and
for market purposes need not seriously be
taken into account. Excepting for wire,
the bulk of recoverable metal will probably
be handled by “scrap” people, and on scrap
lines. However, refiners are likely to prefer
the clean blister which comes from the uu~
contaminated mine production. Scrap
metal, for reasons well known to the trade,
usually contains some impurities which the
refiner is not keen on letting into his works
anything except very dilute quantities.
During the war, both sides were collecting
scrap as well as they could, but probably
Fritz won on a tonnage basis.
Associated Northern (W.A.) showed a
surplus of £14.044 on last year’s operations,
and with the 1917 carry-forward had a total
credit of £24.022 to play; with. From this
£9020 _ was deducted for development and
depreciation. Manager Roberts states that
during the year £30,286 came out of the co.’s
mines at Ora Banda and £70,794 was won by
tributors from the Iron Duke at Kal-
goorlie. Of tlie latter sum £16,045 was
Paid to the co. in royalties. Roberts says
nothing about the future of the Iron Duke,
but states that, though development work
done on the Ora Banda was encouraging, it
was not entirely satisfactory. Operations
on the Mexican mine continue suspended
owing 1o the disturbed state of that country.
<* * « •
On less Kalgurli (W.A.) gets hold of the
North Kalgurli and finds something there at
depth it. can't last much longer. The North
Kalgurli Board has authority to sell, but
is haggling over the price and filling in time
employing tributors to do a little here and
there. The mines are connected above
600 ft., and below that North Kalgurli has
never been prospected. Years ago geologist
Dr. Maclaren had a look at the show and
opined that further sinking was not justi-
fied ; but it might be worth while laying out
some cash to make certain.
* * * *
From Westonia: There is more talk about
water than gold here at present. Edna May
is pressing its claim against the Consoli-
dated for compensation for mine drainage,
while the Central will probably also ask
Consolidated to pay for similar service be-
fore long. Edna May is expected to give
up and drown its mine in November next,
and then there will be a call for lifebuoys
from both Central and Consolidated. Deeps
reckons it can keep dry by cementation, and
will have nothing to do with pumping, which
manager Stuckey declares is an antiquated
method. On the other hand, Central con-
tends that cementation would not have been
so successful in Deeps had not the Central
and other pumps reduced the level of West-
onia water to below the basic dyke which
exists at 350 ft., and which has so far marked
the limits of the flood.
Following closely on a market flutter,
word reached Westralia the other’ day that
Edna May had Ryan’s 24-acre block adjoin-
ing on appro. This lease was first known
as the Edna May South, but later on it
formed part of the Edna May Junction,
which was floated in Adelaide. After some
work had been done the area was declared
worthless and was abandoned. A number
of experts are confident that nothing payable
exists on this part of the field, but Edna
May is bent on seeing for itself.
With Government assistance two Westonia
deadbeats, Golden Point and Consolidated
Extended, propose to do some prospecting
in new ground. The former intends to bore
on the northern portion of its No. 2 block ;
the latter is getting ready to crosscut. The
object in both cases is to discover whether
the gold-bearing rock of the Edna May
group wanders into their ground.
# # * *
“O.B.”The West is again agitating for
legislation making the simultaneous publica-
tion of mining information there and else-
where compulsory. Some want to go fur-
ther and make it a criminal offence for any-
one to report anything about a mine that is
not true. At present, week after week,
month after month, distcfrted facts are being
published, bad mines proclaimed good, and
lies sown broadcast. In fact, the principal
job of some managers of Adelaide and Mel-
bourne cos. operating in Westralia seems to
be to telegraph good assays, whether the ore
comes from their show or somewhere else, to
recommend further development or the erec-
tion of a mill, whether prospects warrant
such a procedure or not.
* * * «
Weston’s Reward (W.A.) is asking
shareholders for another 3d. call. Already
nearly 14,000 out of 30,000 contributing
shares have been forfeited, and as the eo.
has no visible prospects the number is likely
to be largely increased as a result of the
present call. The directors talk glibly of
the number of options submitted to them,
but what is the good of options unless the
co. has the funds to develop them?
* * * *
f.angi Logan South, Ararat (Vic.), is a
fine second to New Langi as a Jubilee
spender. Floated with £12,000 of cash, it
has taken £18,900 of gold won and £88,907
in calls to open up a mile of the lead. Labor
has, as usual, taken the biggest bite : wages
and contract men have had £OO,OOO, while
£33,000 has been eaten up by timber and
firewood and stores. For six months George
Bryant has been without a labor team,
because the unions want the wage system
and Bryant demands contract work, offering
a minimum of 11s. per day. The small
stall' he has kept on has been driving south-
west down the lead and boring into the
gutter to tap water and prospect the wash.
As men from the Great Cobar trickle to the
field Bryant looks to getting the mine
manned again. Then his 20 p.o. estimate
of profits out of the wash opened up north
towards the New Langi will have the acid
put on it by actual work. His crowd diag-
nose the claim as the prize baby of the field,
though it starts a very long mile below the
junction of the Cathcart tributarv with the
Langi gutter. With 3500 ft. of ‘the gutter
drained, Bryant can hustle 150 men into
yvash, so he will start off under ideal condi-
tions.
* * * * _
Mt. Cuthbert, Cloncurry (Q.), is showing
good development in its Kalkadoon mine,
which has a new lease of life since the dis-
covery of a big parallel lode on the w’estern
side of the shaft. The 150 ft. level has been
driven 111 ft. to the north, making, with the
south drive, about 200 ft. along the course of
the lode, which is in places very wide. The
whole face at the northern end shows IS p.c.
* * * *
Ihe last of the men at the old Tasmania
Mine, Beaconsfield (Tas.), have been paid
off. Since the co. closed down, the liquida-
tors have been treating residues and slimes;
but these have been getting poorer, and
expenses liay T e climbed until there was no
profit in the job. Cheap power might resur-
rect the old mine, for there is still a lot of
low-grade ore available.


PEACE-PERHAPS.
CLEMEXCEATT: “Here—take back your sword. We may need it yet.”


I
made from Pure
malt and Hop
rt
W#
Only
B
KfiC®"
r
»g
IMH.M
lllllil
sag*
ME
REE
THE DEAF HEAR!
The Joy and Happiness
of perfect hearing are
only appreciated by
those who have lost it.
The
Mears Earphone
makes it yours. The
Latest Model 96-Tone
Mears Earphone
In the hollow of the
hand or attached to
ear with light head
band.
with its great range of
tone and power, can be regulated by a touch
of the finger to suit the "hearing for every
occasion, and for all stages of deafness.
The MEARS EARPHONE catches and inten-
sifies even the least whisper, and enables the
deaf to hear lectures, sermons and plays clear-
ly and distinctly. Small, compact, and incon-
spicuous. The MEARS EARPHONE is
recommended by leading Aurists, and many
prominent Australian citizens have had the
Mears Earphone in daily use for Seven
Years, with continued satisfaction.
A Lengthy Guarantee with each instrument
FREE TRIAL (
Call and test it, or write for booklet post free.
The Mears Earphone Co., Bernard’s Bldgs,,
Tel. 3916 City. 387 George Street, Sydney.
THE
Hotel Sydney
(SYDNEY)
Is one of the largest, most modern
and best equipped in Australia.
It is situated opposite the Railway Station
and is centra] to everywhere.
ACCOMMODATION FOR 400 GUESTS.
Quiet, Cool and Comfortable.
Hot and Cold Water, Day and Night, in every
Bedroom.
Half an acre of Glorious Roof
Garden.
Tariff from 12/6 per day.
Have you Lunched or Dined at the “Sydney"’?
Management E. T. CHEI3SEMAN.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
‘ C. Coral”: Gone ahead to the Happy Isle
of the Torres Strait islanders {Kibu, they
call it), Mandi, the old mamoose or chieftain
of York Island. He was related to Maino,
Avho holds the sceptre at Yam Island, and
who was at one time orderly to William
Macgregor in New Guinea. Mandi’s family
came from Tutu, an island which at one
time carried a big population, but which is
iioav deserted. The office of mamoose (con-
cermng the origin
of which there
seems to be no very
definite knoivledge)
is dying out, it
being Government
policy not to allow
the appointment of
successors; but in
addition to ruling
his subjects the
mamoose’s job car-
ried with it the
obligation of pro-
viding tucker and
accommodation for
visitors.
GEDDIS, Maori-
land M.L.C.,
editor Wellington
Times and Napier
Telegraph, and
father of two fine
soldier-boys.
The shoemaker’s children are not ahvays
unshod. E. H. Wainwright, Avho saw two
generations through the science classes at
St. Peter’s, Adelaide, and died a feiv days
ago, had two sons. One is manager of the
Broken Hill South, where great work has
been done with the flotation process ; the other
is assistant-manager of the Central Zinc
Works at Seaton CareW in Durham (Eng.)
—whose general-manager, by the wav, Moul-
den. probably the leading zinc chemist in
England, is also an Australian.
From London Evening Standard: —
Paris, Thursday.—ln spite of the impenetrable
mystery which surrounds the deliberations of the
Commission on Reparations, it is stated that they
work hard. The only definite information comes
from the door officials, who declare that they never
heard so much noise in the room before.
Even at this distance you can almost hoar
Little Billy pulling up upas trees with his
mouth.
It is practically settled that John Davies,
President of the Vic. Leg. Council, who is
suffering from paralysis, will retire from
public life at the end of this month. Edward
Mitchell, K.C., whose father was President
of the Landlords from 1870 to 1884, and
Henry Weedon, ex-Gaud Mayor, are in the
field for Davies’s scat (Melbourne Province).
A few months ago, Avlien John McWhae, avlio
is the second member for Melbourne Pro-
vince, proposed to retire, Barrister Mitchell
was mentioned as his possible successor.
One of the Wilson trustees on the Argus
management, and a Federal Government
House pet, he is inclined to be exclusive, as
FOREDOOMED.
“Climate and disease militate against successful
white colonisation of the tropics. It is Australia’s
own affair if she colonises the tropical North with
Australians, but it is doubtful if Britain could spare
her most virile and enterprising sons for a political
experiment which is foredoomed to failure.”
Dr. R. T. Leiper, of London.
EMINENT LONDON PROFESSOR : “How long
have you been living here?”
DARWIN OCTOGENARIAN : “Cornin’ on sixty
year!"
EMINENT LONDON PROF.: “ Dear! Dear!
But of course you’ll die young. The
climate is against you — we’ll never rear
you, you know.”
well as prosy, and some of his Melbourne
Club friends are consequently not elated at
the prospect of his late-in-life flutter in the
Uppish House, where there is not a member
left who sat with his dad.
T. J. S. O’Halloran, one of Adelaide’s
many untiring veterans, had an 84th birth-
day last week. He has been an S.M. for
about 44 years, and, being wanted the day
after his birthday to lend a hand in the con-
gested Local Court of Adelaide, was found
to be not too old or too tired, but simply too
full of work elsewhere.
The Addison-Downer honeymoon had a
funereal ending, the younger brother of the
bridegroom, amateur actor Charles, having
died from double pneumonia Avhile the Loon-
gana was quarantined at Portsea, on the
Melbourne-to-Tasmania run. The youth met
the homing honeymooners in Melbourne, and
arranged to voyage the last lap with them
so as to be present at the family re-union in
Hobart. While rushing about as sports-
secretary he caught a chill and died within
a week. This cuts the four Addison bro-
thers in halves, as Barry, the youngest, was
killed in Flanders. The survivors are Tas.
Under-Sec. D’Arcy and flying-man Major
Syd, recently home.
The most cheered soldier in the Anzac
Day march through Adelaide Avas Peter
Molloy, formerly of the Black Watch. This
Scot fought in Egypt from 1882 onwards, in
India under Roberts, and in the Boer War.
He came to South Aus. with a long-service
medal, and his fighting days ought to have
been over. But when the recent trouble
came he was not content with sending tAvo
sons, but somehow got himself accepted for
Gallipoli. All his old campaigns had not
damaged him greatly* but in this.one he lost
both legs. Now he has a Avheelod chair, and
in it he briskly took his part iii the proces-
sion.
From Fred Johns, author of “Who’s Who
in the Commonwealth” :—■
Referring to the oft-published statemert that the
late llr. Stretch was the first Australian-born to
become a bishop in bis own Country, the first
Australian-born to preside over an Australian see
was the late Samuel Edward Mirsden, Born in
Sydney in 1832 (according to Mcnnell), grandson
of the famous chaplain of Sydney's early days.
Grandson Mat'sden, who went to Cambridge arid
became a clergyman in England, was Bishop of
Bathurst from 1869 to 1885; It would be correct
to say that the late Bishop Stretch was the “first
Australian born and bred” to be raised to the
Episcopal Bench in Australia, but MarSden was a
bishop quite a quartet of a cfentui’y before Dr.
Stretch was appointed Coadjutor-Bishop of Brisbane*
“Nosneb”: Oil April 4 died W. A* Fraser,
of Midbourne, the youngest son of James
Fraser, one of the founders
of Duneati and Fraser in
Adelaide. Death rob lied tis
then of a great soul. (hi a
trip to England in 3914 1
received instructions front
him to see to Phil May’s
grave. Calling at Keiisall
Green Cemetery I found the
grave Overgrown with weeds.
Removing them I chine to a
Wreath haliging on a small
tripod. On the back aalts
scratched the words: “This
Avreath was placed here bn
15/6/T3 by A. Woodroffp, of
Adelaide, to the order of W,
A. Fraser, of Melbourne;”
On anotheb trip to England,
last Febrimry, I again Avent
but to the grave. It Had
become more overgroAvn than
ever, and a dirty job it was
clearing it, London smoke
being Avell Represented. The!
glass covering the wreath
had been broken and the
words scratched on the back
had rusted aAvay. I tried to
arrange a pilgrimage of Aus-
tralians id the grave, bht
irishing from town to town I
fcould not see to the details
properly, so the idea fell
through.
“Blackboy”: The B. will
be glad to know that old
jimmy Walkaway, King of Geraldton
(W.A.), has been provided for. The
ancient monarch simply refused to go aAvay
from the land of his forefathers and camp
among strangers in the Moora settlement, so
he was put into gaol. Squatter people, how-
ever, got him out, and will give the old chap
tucker and a camping (dace.
“S.T.S.”: Who was the first real Aus-
tralian to get into grips Avith the Hun? I
should nominate Lionel Pilkingron, Adelaide
born-and-bred. After leaving St. Peter’s he
went to England to study engineering at
Birmingham, joined the Warwick regiment,
and came under the sensible modern arrange-
ment which alloAvs young engineer-officers to
go away on civil jobs, though they are still
“attached” when Avanted. August, 1914,
found him in Colombo, on harbor work. He
made a bolt for the war, got through Mar-
seilles to Paris, failed to find his regiment in
the crush, but (officers being badly wanted)
was sent on to the Gordon Highlanders, and
Avas in the firing-line on August 27, sharing in
the retreat from Mono. Later he found the
Warwicks; he and cartoonist Baimsfather
are said to be the only original officers of
that regiment left. Pilkington is now back
in India on a bigger engineering job. lie
acquired a heap of tilings in the interval —a
wife, the rank of major, two wounds, one
gassing, the M.C., several “mentions” and the
Crown of Italy for gallantry during a sudden
attack on the Piave.
H. R. Harper, Melbourne City Council’s
chief electrical engineer, goes over to the
Vic. Electricity Commissioners. He will
draw £3500 a year at first, and later on
£2OOO. For the last few months Harper and
Ellery, the town clerk, did not “hit it” too
well, otherwise he might not haA r e been an
applicant. In his ucav job he will be on
fairly familiar ground, as he was associated
Avith Herman, Clements and Stone on the
Advisory Board which reported in 1917 on
the possibility of deA r eloping the Morwell
brown coal-fields for the generation of elec-
tricity and transmitting the current to Mel-
bourne. A. G. M. Michell is to be consult-
ing hydraulic engineer to advise the Com-
missioners on the feasibility of harnessing
the waters of the Iviewa (N.E. District).
“Hamer”: In Paris Young Ned of Wales
called in at the Aussie Y. Emma and shook
hands with the boys Avho had taught him
two- up. On e
h o Rrt y - handed
bush Digger clung
to his fist aiid
asked him. if he
was ever passing
not to forget to
look in. Young
Ned said he was
certainly going to
Au st r alia. “Is
that dinkum?”
asked the Digger.
“The dink uin
oil!” said his
Nibs. W h i c li
shows that lie has
learnt the lan-
guage as well as
something of the
men who speak it;
HARRY
HAWKER ,
the Australian
ariator; sketched-
outside his
father’s garage at
Ehternwick
(Fie.), on the
eve of his depar-
ture for Europe.
Harry Chauvei, the greatest leader of
mounted men in the Avar, was 51 the other
day. He joined the military at 21, fought
in S’Africa with the Queenslanders, and
there is no heed to tell again Avhat his Desert
Mounted Column did in Palestine.
Frank, elder brother of Brig.-Genefal
Brand, is a ready tighter; too. A man
walked into his office at Bundaberg (Q.) a
few weeks ago and fired point-blank at him,
the bullet just missing its mark. Brand in-
stantly picked up a paperweight and throw
it at liis caller, who made off with the revol-
ver. As lie Avouidn’t stop. Brand picked up
a stone, threw it and brought his quarry
down. Then a couple of police took a hand,
and the shooter has gone ill for two years
Gone to press at 85, Alfred Robinson, of
the Western Star, Roma (Q.). Born in
England, ivliere he was a comp., he came to
Australia in the early ’fifties, and was a news-
paner hand at the Lambing Flat goldfield,
and afterwards on the .Brisbane Guardian
and Courier. He established the Dalb.v
Herald. but passed on to Roma and bandit
the Western Star when it was only a four-
year-old and Roma a village. He estab-
lished the Charleville Times, too, but sold
it a quarter of a century ago.
“K.Z.” about a lately-dead Socialist: —
Arthur George Roth (B. l/5/’l9) did not “miss
getting into the Baptist ministry.” He \A T as or-
dained in England some 14 years ago and, return-
ing to his native Victoria, got a cure of souls out
Brighton way. He soon found that in church
circles precept is liked better than example, and
that the truly righteous are scandalised by a
clergyman who practises what he preaches. So for
conscience sake he stepped down from the pulpit.
Thenceforth he earned his living in his father’s boot
factory, and lived with his father and mother. I
think the “dinners of the rich” lack much that was
abundant in that simple, hospitable home, where,
from infancy to manhood, A. G. Roth and his
brother Reg (who fought in France) never heard
a selfish counsel or a mean estimate of humanity.
Living to serve the living was the ideal of that
household, and even a friendless animal who crossed
the threshold was not sent empty away. A. G.
Roth’s association with the workers of Footscray was
intimate and enduring; his maternal uncle, big-
hearted Parson Goble, has spent a lifetime among
them. There, too, young Roth met and married
the girl to whom he has been husband and lover
and inspiration. He leaves one child.
Harry Hatfield Avas sent along for the
155th time by a Hobart beak the other day.
Better known as “Harry the Girl.” the
Speck’s most versatile degenerate makes
obscenity his long suit. It is not cut out
even from his shrill addresses from the dock.
“I’m the only male charwoman in Hobart,”
he squeaked, “and these Avant me to
clean their gaol on the cheap before
the peace celebrations.”
Hope Tulloh, of the Naval Transport
Service, who died of ’flu last week at Coon-
amble (N.S.W.), had an early acquaintance
with the sea. lie was a son of the late
George Tulloh, of Portland (Vic.), one of
the old-timers Avho settled in that district
before the bay was protected from the wild
seas of the open roadstead; and dad attended
to the lightering. The son, who Avas front-
named after the late G.-G. Hopetoun, was a
Scotchbyterian parson at one stage- of his
career, but the sea called him again before
he had gone far as a sky-pilot.
RATS!
[FOR THE BULLETIN .]
Lloyd George stood on the Commons’ floor, and burn-
ing words spake he
Relating to the world in arms, and lasting Peace
to be,
Whilst in the gallery above, all ears (at first) and
eyes,
With knitted brows, and royal soul exalted to the
skies, ,
There sate his Highness Prince of Wal. , at duty’s
call intent
On noting all the gems of speech which charmed the
Parliament.
His royal interest was keen. The rapid flight of
time
He heeded not; he sat enthralled by eloquence
sublime.
For what the Allied Powers had done, and what
they had in view,
To purify the human race and build the world anew,
Were themes that thrilled the Monarch’s heir, to
whom the nations’ good
Seemed so important that he craved no coarser,
earthkr food.
The speech went on, its points enforced with ora-
tory’s art;
The eager Prince still sat resolved.t.o play the silent
part,
Ami listen whilst the Master taught, his best atten-
tion fixed
On problems which, to say the least, are getting
somewhat mixed,
Until his strength began to fail; then, fidgeting
his feet,
Ilis Highness felt an urgent need of something else
to eat.
Rich mental food he dearly loves, ’tis tack he can
devour
Until the booming of Big Ben proclaims the
luncheon hour.
And then a banquet for the mind is surely bound
to pall:
In fancy he can smell the soup and hear the g'ong’s
loud call.
“Enough of fateful schemes!” he cries, a little bit
annoyed,
“Within my inner princely soul I feel an aching
void.
“I’m full fed up with plans of Peace to end sick
Europe’s grief—-
I would that I could slip away and bite a piece of
beef.”
But Edward's intellectual wants had long been
satisfied
Ere free he was to flee the House, and feed the rats
inside.
VICTORIA.
G.K.


GET-AT-ABILITY!
In the New 1919 Studebakers all
parts the owner ordinarily has
occasion to examine are readily
and completely accessible.
All external parts of. the engine are placed
within easy reach as soon as you raise the
hood. And the internal parts are arranged
with reference to equally complete accessibility.
All the way through these beautiful new models the spirit of
accessibility is carried : it means much to the owner-driver.
Come in and let us explain the wonderful New Model
Studebakers to you in detail. Let us show you their QUALITY
and COMFORT. And how Studebaker has produced cars that
are more ECONOMICAL and STRONGER, and at the same
time LIGHTER and EASIER RIDING, than any others ever.
If you cannot call, we will forward illustrated descriptive literature at your request.
But call if you can, and ride in these splendid cars.
6
‘THey Sell THemselves.
99
THE STUDEBAKER CORPORATION OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED,
Head Office for Australia: 177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. South Australian Branch: 1 Currie Street, i\.delaide.
Turner Bros., 39S Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Armstrong C. & M. Agency, Hay Street, Perth.
C. C. & M. A. Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
New Zealand: Adams Limited,
Christchurch,
Palmerston North,
Timaru,
Wanganui.


IN THESE SERIOUS EPIDEMIC DAYS
Get CLEMENTS TONIC for your Blood
Pure Blood means less risk of infection and greater powers of resistance to epidemic attacks.
The purer the blood the stronger the body. Epidemic disease thrives on the debilitated system.
These are anxious (lays for Australia, when it behoves all persons to take every care of themselves and ward oft to their greatest
effort the menace to health that threatens them. No one can afford to take any undue risk, and the person who has the best condi-
tion of health and the greatest powers of resistance to any invading force, whether it is epidemic disease, privation, oppressive
climatic conditions, worries, or minor illness, is best fortified against it. It is the old story in a new way of the soldier well armed;
he is shielded from attack of destructive and destroying forces.
Clements Tonic, which, for a quarter of a century, has beenadmitted a medicine of rare health value in keeping the nerves sound
and the blood cool and pure, should now be used as a means to fortify the body and the general health. It tones up the stomach at
well, has a palliative effect on the bowels, stimulates the liver and kidneys, and imparts a healthy influence. Clements Tonic is
largely a blood and nerve medicine, and should be a part of the medical equipment of every home at the present time.
Get it from your Chemist To-day. Use it as the Pure Blood Remedy.
Clenisnts Tonic Ltd., Rozelle, N.S.W.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
THE LIMIT.
HUBBY: “It’s all right copying other
women's dresses. But I do object to
you wearing other men's hats."
"Scaler”: Five of us and a lance-jack were
digging a grave for one of the transport
mules which had gone to the land where
there are no G.S. waggons and an abundance
of hay. The scene of the funeral was the
battalion rubbish-tip. and we were digging
hard when the brigadier, accompanied by the
colonel, adjutant, orderly-officer and orderly-
S'rgeant. arrived on a tour of inspection.
We then enjoyed a good demonstration of
“chain -of command.” The brig., thinking
poor Jaeko would slumber more peacefully a
little closer to the tip. expressed that opinion
to the colonel, who informed the adjutant of
the brig.’s wish. The adjutant told the
orderly-officer, who solemnly passed it on to
the orderly-sergeant. The orderly-sergeant,
realising that this was his opportunity to
shine before the little tin-gods, directed our
lance-jack, “See that donk. is buried
nearer the rubbish!” The interment
then took place
* * * *
“Butty”: A thousand of us arrived in
England a few days ago from Belgium, en
route for home, and as time was dragging
heavily I offered to assist in the Draft
Orderly Room. One of my jobs was to act
as legal adviser to men desiring discharge in
the United Kingdom, married men desiring
to return on “family” ships with their wives,
and applicants for special leave. Yesterday
a typical Cornstalk strolled in and inquired
about special leave, stating that he wished to
get married. Selecting an official form—one
of a multitude issued by our Department of
Demobilisation and Repatriation to mystify
applicants—l explained the procedure neces-
sary, which included completing the form in
triplicate, and sent him off. He returned
later in the day and handed me the forms,
which had been completed, at evident cost of
much labor. Handing them back I directed
him to now find a padre, before whom he
would have to make a declaration. This was
the last, straw. “Damn the blanky forms!”
lie barked. “I’m fed up with them. I’ll let
the wedding slide.”
* # #
“Copabella” : State-school head-teachers in
Vic. have been warned to see that no ’flu
contacts come to school, and each morning
a “contact-muster” is held, and the kiddies
from infected homes are sent back to them.
The comb-out has to be speedy, and the
assertions of children, made at. a “Hands-up,
contacts!” rally in each class-room! are
accepted. The teacher in one grade, sus-
picious of a bright, lad whose mother “had it
pretty bad,” made an independent inquiry by
letter. The father, a returned Digger, re-
plied as follows:
Jack’s diagnosis is at fault. If more ladies were
suffering from his mother's complaint there would
be a better chance for a White Australia.
Jack is back at school. Mother’s influenza is
a girl.
* * * *
“Never again!” said the Patriot. “You
needn’t worry about stopping them at the
Customs. German goods are down and
out!” The Bulletin smiled; and smiled
again last week when it received a “patri-
otic” picture post-card, commemorating “The
Great War which has come to a Glorious
Ending,” with photos of King George and
Woodrow Wilson, posted to this paper from
Scotland, and printed in Cologne.
* * * *
More beer-stains disappear :
An old Sydney landmark is in the hands of the
knacker —the building on the nor’-west corner of the
intersection of Pitt and King streets.
Ninety years ago the Bunch of Grapes
was on that corner. It was run by
Michael Napthali, who had been a
draper in Lower George-street—the same
from whom the historic soldiers Sudds
and Thompson openly stole a few shil-
lings’ worth of cotton-print in order to
become “convicts,” as this class of citizen
was better off than the soldier. Those
who have read the history of Governor
Darling know the result. A little later
one Doran kept it, his shingle being the
Hope and Anchor, in which “the Flying
Pieman” is said to have worked the en-
gine. In the first ’forties Alfred Toogood
built upon it an inn, known for many
tears after as The Rainbow. In the
'fifties he had a “free and easy” there;
likewise he had penny tokens minted and
put into circulation. Alfred Toogood
remained until 1867, when he made way
for the champion scullers McGrath and
Punch. Then came the Federal Bank ;
and on its going bung the corner adapted
itself to various businesses. In Jim
Punch's time the house was the most
noted sporting rendezvous in the city,
Tattersall’s not excepted. Jim Punch
it was who took Ned Trickett to Eng-
land to win the championship. On
returning Ned opened a pub on the
opposite corner. Later Bill Beach occu-
pied it. But neither was successful with the beer-
pump.
“Sites”; It happened during the last flood
up north in Victoria. Joel, hearing yells for
help, ran to the bank of the swollen river
and discovered a man out in midstream,
clinging to a limb with the tenacity with
which drowning men are said to attach them-
selves to straws Joel, a nervous little man
who has got further and further into the
habit of relying on Mrs. Joel, ran wildly to
and fro on the bank, jerking his arms in the
atmosphere. “Loose the punt!” screamed
the man in the water. He came up, spouted
and yelled again. “Dammitall, man, loose
the punt!” Joel took a few more turns.
“Wait,” he cried —“wait on. I’ll go for the
missus!” He ran off and returned in five
.minutes. Meanwhile the man had been
towed out, but the distracted Joel did not
know that. He peered into the deep water;
then making a trumpet of his hands, he
shouted : “Gord ’elp you. she isn’t at home !”
"0.L.”: I live near the boundary of two
Melbourne municipalities. Yesterday I saw
a neighbor of mine, very grey in the face and
hardly able to drag one foot after the other,
toil slowly up to a local ’phone-box. He
went away presently, after a good deal of
ARGUING IT OUT.
“Now look here, Brown, drink is ruining your eyesight."
“Well, doctor, how is it I can see more when I'm drunk than when I'm sober?"
conversation ; and I found out this morning
—he had died in the meantime —that his talk
had been with officials of the two municipali-
ties. It seems that our own burg hasn’t an
ambulance for removing ’flu-patients and the
sick man had therefore been obliged to try
the neighboring authorities. The local
government over the boundary argued the
matter out with him, and finally decided to
stretch a point and send an ambulance by-
and-bye. It arrived six hours later, in time
to get the patient to hospital 15 minutes
before he passed over. Our own municipal-
ity is quite a wealthy one, but apparently
the Health authorities leave the matter of
providing ambulances to Bumble’s own indis-
cretion.
* * * *
“Sydney George”: I was in a village near
Salisbury last year when a May Day fair
was held; but it was not the picturesque
and romantic show I expected.
The revel was held in Lord
Pembroke’s grounds at Wilton,
and booze was the biggest item
of the programme, especially
among the women from the
countryside. A diversion was
created by a party of convivial
Diggers, who went looking for
the “Kaiser’s Tree.” The Kaiser
and King Edward visited Pem-
broke's place in 1908, and each
planted a seedling. The Dig-
gers wanted to chop it down:
but the plot leaked out and they
were foiled. Kaiser or no
Kaiser, the Pembroke family
could not exist in a pla'ce whose
symmetry was blasted by the
removal of one of a pair of
trees. So the chopping party found the
vegetable guarded by a group of Tommy
officers, military “Jacks.” gardeners and the
lad’es of the house. Nothing else happened
to it.
“Emergency Nurse”: The experience of
the last, couple of weeks at this Sydney ’flu
hospital supports the theory that the flea is
a distributor of the disease. We have been
drawing most of our patients from the
poorer quarters of the Western Suburbs, and
even the pyjamas and night attire in which
they arrive are crawling. It has been said
that the ’flu is no respecter of persons, but in
the better quarters of those suburbs where
reasonable attempts are made to defeat the
flea our ambulance men report an almost
total absence of the epidemic. We are using
more bug-killer than inhalants now. and are
getting better results.
* * * ■*
I' ergus Hume’s “Mysteries of a Hansom
Cab would be of small account these days,
for there is hardly a hansom left to put a
mystery in. But a chauffeur drove up to a
Perth police-station in the small hours of a
last week’s morning with two mysteries in
his taxi-cab. both dead by shooting. One
was a middle-aged retired business-man and
the other a barmaid. The driver stated that
when he reached their destination they
didn’t come out, so he concluded they were
asleep. Thinking the fare might as well
accumulate, he went to sleep also. He
awoke feeling cold and found his ballast
cold to match. As the shooting was'done in
front the theory that an emissary of the
Kaiser climbed over the back of the car and
did the deed has been abandoned. In fact,
only the most ordinary complications are
expected.
“Flaneur”: Some relics find queer resting
places. On Churchill Island, Westernport
(Vic.), peacefully reposes a cannon from the
Confederate privateer Shenendoah. It was
presented by the officers to Amess, one-
time Mayor of Melbourne, as a return for his
BROTHERLY ADVICE.
FRIENDLY SOLICITOR: “So yon hove hod a
quarrel with your wife? Well, forget
and forgive.?
YOUNG MAN : "I never can forgive her.
You see, I was in the wrong.?
THE LAW: “In that case demand an
apology."
hospitality. Melbourne’s hospitality and the
permit given by the Government to coal the
destroyer proved expensive, for these were
two points put forward by the U.S. authori-
ties in the subsequent Arbitration proceed-
ings. when John Bull was bluffed out of
Uj.200,000.
( Continued on page 18.)
THE PLAINT OF PELLHALLOW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“He did not think there would be any great falling
off of buyers if the price of sugar was increased
another half-penny to Id. People were now so
used to paying high prices that they simply paid
them and said nothing.”— Grocer-witness in the
Food-prices Inquiry.
As Percy Pellhallow was walking downstairs
lie was suddenly hit on the ear.
Some vases were thrown at him —several pairs;
And a brick, and a bottle of beer.
“It's odd,” he remarked, as he watched the blood
run
From an ominous gasli in bis eye,
“One’s angry, at first, at such things being done,
But it passes—as Time passes by.
“I’ve lived in this building, oh, ever so long ;
And the folks in the neighboring flats
Were nice for a'■while. They considered it wrong-
To so muc h as bombard one with cats.
The most that they did, if they wanted a jest,
Was to chuck things too rotten to maim:
Mouldy cabbages, cauliflowers, fruit, and the rest—-
Goods unlikely to stun or to lame.
“But, latterly, matters have got very hot.
They are using the heavier stuff;
And (each being what you might term a dead shot,
Without any suggestion of guff)
It’s pretty well hopeless to go for a walk
And escape bruises black, blue and puce.
I'm not chinning sob-stuff or that kind of talk,
I'm aware the cure’s habit, or use.
“And yet there are times when 1 ‘get up the wind' ;
Or—more simply—experience fright.
They tell me that eels get to like being skinned,
And they're probably perfectly right.
The point that ! make—and adhere to —-is this:
/, unhappily, am not an eel.
When solvent and well I experience bliss ;
When I'm injured or broke —well, I feel.’’
x.s.w.
10-2-4.


r
a
■-S
1
1
VM
:=^S=
mk
s
v.v
Wtem
■ : '/ifr/*i
m
V.* • , :
cS
1
®6*S
Sw?
$3
as
ft*
1
A
■■• y:
i
$
iEWiii
UIUNIIIUMBMUI
m
s
i 0
IK
V
56ams^ c *
Australia „
m
i
i
I
©6e Quality Roofing
that Resists the Elements.
Quality in a roofing is measured by its dependable service, year in and year out, under all
climatic changes and conditions.
“Adamax” Hoofing has proved its quality under most adverse conditions, and we honestly
recommend it to every builder seeking a roof that gives him best value.
It saves money —in first cost —in cost of upkeep—in cost of laying.
“Adamax” can be laid perfectly flat, which means less roofing required and less roofing timber
—then “Adainax” gives considerably greate:- service than galvanised-iron, yet it costs only
one-third the price and one-third for freight charges.
Free descriptive pamphlet, giving full facts, also free samples, from Desk a B.”
William Adams Co. Ltd.,
175 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE: 521-3 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE : 96 Currie Street.
BRISBANE: Cr. Edward & Mary Streets.
PERTH: 33 King Street.


C|
If
Q .
m
n
o^ nflsrol v/v :
>X
">) WAH«ANTE» /'-M
u POT STILL
fcj
»
Stands Old from rhe
RucK of Whiskies
BRINDS
WHISKY
A Pure Pot Still Spirit made
from finest Barley. Malt and
Sparkling Highland Water.
To meet the
demand
TOOHEYS
have brewed a
Special Stout
Equal to Imported.
TRY IT.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
“Tarago”: Someone pinched Bill’s rifle
the night we .were changing over, and, like
a good Australian, he reached in the dark
for another —and got it. Next morning he
was disgusted to find himself in possession
of a rust-encrusted, mud-splattered blunder-
buss that had evidently been left in the line
since the opening of hostilities; but there
was no help for it now, for the platoon was
busy cleaning up for rifle inspection, and
Bill had hardly knocked the first flakes of
rust off when the sergeant banged open the
hut door and invited everyone to fall-in.
Bill took his place with his rifle at the cor-
rect “port,” and the lieutenant made his
way slowly towards him, -examining the
bolts and magazines, with his weather eye
open for specks of rust in the barrels. On
catching sight of Bill’s ancient artillery he
stopped. “Private Clink!” he demanded,
“have you ever worked that bolt since you
came out of the line?” Bill looked hard at the
two pips on the officer’s shoulder. “No,
sir,” li? replied, “I’ve been afraid I’d scare
the mice out of the barrel.”
“H.II.”: Logic runs in curious shapes.
Patrick Gleeson, who killed Mrs. Hotel-
keeper Devlin at Bulgandra (N.S.W.), said
that the lady became cold towards him after
Ward arrived, and he went to her pub with
a gun “to frighten her so that the good
opinion she held of him before Ward
appeared on the scene might be restored.”
As the lady refused to get a better opinion
A COMEBACK.
HE: “So this then is absolutely final?”
SHE: “Quite. Shall I return your letters?”
HE: “ Yes, please. There is some good
material in them I can use again.”
in spite of the gun she was buried. His
Honor, in making it 15 years, said that the
case should be a warning to those who
followed immoral lives. His Honor is full
of wise saws and is always pointing the
stodgy moral to persons who put the petty
cash on the wrong horse, or drink a keg too
much, or drag the gun behind them by the
muzzle, or look for the gas escape with a
match on the Lord’s Day. He’is even cap-
able of pointing out to the aged and decom-
posed suicide how he made the first wrong-
step at his mother’s knee, whereas he should
have put the penny in the missionary box.
“The Religious Editor”: “I’m going to
start a Society for the Suppression of Un-
necessary Gloom. The need for it was
revealed to me yesterday on the boat when
I saw something like a tower of grief ap-
proaching. Looking again I saw it was a
tall man with a face like the back of a hearse.
He had a high
clerical collar and
seemed to think it
■entitled him to
walk to a sound-
less Dead March
and f row n at
strangers who had
done him no harm.
He had a small
black despatch box
under his arm and
two female rela-
tives in unfashion-
able clothes fled
before him to
decide where they
should all sit. The
sun seemed to go out when he
glode past with deep-set eyes
staring. In another and less
crowded age he would have been
some sort of prophet and
dwelt alone on a high mountain
and grown whiskers. As mod-
ern civilisation uses all the
high mountains for expensive
tourist resorts he has to infest
the suburbs where harmless
sinners live. My proposed
Society for the Suppression of
Unnecessary Gloom would take
all these dervishes and hand
them over to a sub-committee of
land-agents who would set them
up in desolate places. If the
dervish refused to go to his
desolate place lie would be
sat upon by the Avhole society. After
that he would be flat enough to serve for a
bookmarker in a sporting novel.
* * * *
“Searchlight”: Flumonia is very mild in
most country districts of N. S. AVales, but
they’ve got flumania in a most virulent
form. A squatter, whose son was rettirrh-
ing from the war on a certain day, had a
tent rigged up in a paddock about a mile
from the homestead, and tacked a notice on
the home-paddock gate that the lad was to
go into quarantine there for seven days
before he made the home roof. The Digger’s
language when he read the notice fired the
grass.
* * # *
“Bart”: Most doctors attribute the epi-
demic to a germ with such a delicate consti-
tution that it can’t live for more than four
hours if it leaves its human dugout. Masks
are recommended on this theory. But it
looks as though the doctors are accusing the
wrong microbe. It arrived
with the label “Influenza,”
and it seems to be pally
with the ’flu, most likely
because a person with the
’flu is least capable of resist-
ing it. But there the
friendship probably ends. A
preliminary attack of ’flu is
quite unnecessary. Maori-
land is a better guide than
Australia because the sali-
ent points of the malady
were so much more accen-
tuated. There a man might
be feeling quite well and yet
be dead within six hours.
Within two weeks of its
appearance in Wellington
nearly half the town was
down with it. Now Wel-
lington is not such an affec-
tionate city that a disease
could spread so quickly
merely through contact. The
microbe invasion must have
had other means of convey-
ance. It not only rode the
Wellington gales and attacked people in
isolated lighthouses, but when a steamer
from Lyttelton reached the lonely Chatham
Islands, away across a desolate stretch of
water, it found that the epidemic had already
arrived and was playing havoc among the
few inhabitants.
* * * *
If W. Hohenzollern is brought to trial
before a jury of the five Powers it is under-
stood that three—Japan, Italy and U.S.
will vote that kings are inviolable, so that
William can only be “rebuked” at most.
Why the legend of inviolability should linger
after all that ha.s happened is beyond guess-
ing. There isn’t one resident sovereign now
in South America (the last inviolable was
politely jolted out), nor in North America
(the last two resident emperors were exe-
cuted by shooting and the previous one is
supposed to have been hanged on a tree and
left to the crows). Europe can show 12
identifiable resident or partially-resident
sovereigns, of whom eight (those of Hol-
land, Belgium. Greece, Roumania, Serbia,
Norway, Sweden and Denmark) are small
potatoes. On the other hand, it has about
AFTER WARDS.
“What did you see about me that made yon
think you could make love to met”
“ Nothiny. Women, you know, are like
watches —you can’t tell by just looking
at them whether they're running fast
or slow.”
20 republics either formed or forming amid
much chaos. Africa owns one republic, and
one royal cipher—for Abyssinia. There
isn’t a resident potentate of any account in
Asia. A very great part of the continent
is the place that an executed emperor used
to own till his inviolability ran out, and
most of the balance is a republic where all
the royal family that didn’t get away
received burial. Half the world’s royalties,
including W. Hohenzollern himself, have
recently fled because they felt they were
only ordinary mortals and would be a great
deal more mortal if they stayed. If a king
won’t take a sporting chance on his own
inviolability the thing should be declared
null and void.
“J. Ivasee” : A medical friend, writing in
Tiie Bulletin (24/4/T9), says that “the
optician of olden days was content to sit in
his premises and make up lenses to prescrip-
tion.” How far this is from the truth can
be told in a few words. Listen to an extract
from a lecture by Carl Barck, M.D. (don’t
forget the M.D., for obvious reasons) :—-
In a manuscript of the year 1289, published first
by Dr. Redi in 1649, we find the passage, “I was so
debilitated by age that without the glasses known as
spectacles I would no longer be able to read or
write. These have lately been invented....”
Further on :
In the beginning and throughout the middle ages
the selling and adjustment of spectacles was done by
spectacle pedlars. Within the seventeenth century
optical stores were established first in Germany.
Physicians for a long- time did not pay much atten-
tion to spectacles. They considered it beneath the
dignity of their profession to have anything to do
with them until the middle of the nineteenth cen-
tury. Some of them—for instance, Bartisch, of Dres-
den, the most famous oculist of the sixteenth century
—even advised against their use.
So you see that the art of fitting spectacles
did not seem lucrative enough to the medical
profession until 600 years after their inven-
tion. The doctors stuck to their proper
sphere, i.e., the treatment of diseases, and
not to the correction of optical errors, where
they do not rightly belong.
*
“Fair Dinkum”: A Tommy colonel was
lecturing a class of N.C.O.’s on discipline,
and was saying that he hoped they would
stamp out the swearing that was particularly
bad in his regiment. “Yes, sir,” quoth an
interjector ; one of them called me a
- this morning. And me a lance-cor-
poral ap’ all!”
The Digger didn’t leave all his bravery
behind him when he quitted the Somme. One
of him recently wrote to his people telling
them he was bringing home a French widow
and her family of eight.
* * * *
Seven Judges and a dozen other lawyers
have been trying to find out what an invita-
tion is. It happened out at Coonamble
(N.S.W.). The local hall had been hired for
the evening, and the hirer was allowed In
early to decorate the barn. A girl who was
helping found a loose railing without look-
ing for it, and a jury said the damages were
worth £2OOO of the committee’s good money.
The first Judge directed the jury that “s
person is on the premises by the invitation
of another if he is lawfully there on some
business in which they are both concerned.’
Three other N.S.W. Supreme Court Judge;
thought the gill wasn’t an invitee. Bui
as three more Judges, who happen to have
seats in the High Court, thought that the
girl who helped the lady had the same rights
as the lady herself, and as the lady’s status
as an invitee was unquestioned, the members
qf the committee will dig in their pockets
for the two thousand.
* * * #
“Algy R.” (Belgium) : Charleroi was
recently posted “out of bounds’’ while a
systematic round-up of a sandbagging and
highway-robbery push, locally known as
“The Kelly Gang,” was effected. The sub-
sequent stocktaking of prisoners collected in
the raid disclosed a picturesque assortment
of Yanks, Canadians, Tommies, Belgians,
Australians and three escaped German pris-
oners, all camouflaged as Diggers. This is
not the first time that Australia’s good name
has been similarly dragged through the mud
of Europe. Now I wait for an official state-
ment that the syndicate of criminals was
not wholly Australian, and I’ll bet my
deferred pay that I wait in vain.
* * # *
“0.A.5.”: The R.A.N. is finding it harder
and harder to get doctors, and is rapidly los-
ing those it has. It is chiefly a sordid
matter of cash. The spa-going surgeon gets
from five to six hundred a year, plus £lOO
deferred pay, which is at compound interest.
It reads lifte a fair thing, but the trouble
is that the commercial value of a doctor
in Australia is a good deal higher. It is
an indifferent, idle and possibly blithered
general practitioner who can’t make £lOOO
a year in a good country town. So the
R.A.N. tends to fill up with (1) Britishers
and (2) the wrong sort of local men. Most
of the work is either clerical or administra-
tive, the bad cases being naturally got
ashore as soon as possible; yet it seems
wrong that the sea service shouldn’t have
A BAD POLICY.
M IMI: “He’s insured his life in my favor.
But he might live for years, and I can’t
stand him much longer.”
NINI: Oh, but hell live much longer if you
leave him, dear.”
the best medical attention at all times. I
remember a stoker who remained persis-
tently ill till we reached Sydney. He then
asked leave to go ashore “to see a real
doctor.” Which suggests that the men
have a suspicion of how the matter some-
times stands.
AUTUMN GARDEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
She sang of gardens old and young,
And sweet her garden thoughts were sung
Where yesterday the quinces hung.
The trees were good to us this year ;
And now their autumn rest is here —
Their rest for new work drawing near.
The seeding grass has brought the bees*
In muffled thunder through the trees
On wings of buried summer’s breeze.
O’er tumbling grasses cosmos blow ;
The honey-flowers throw powdered snow
Where lamps of autumn roses glow.
Behind the shed and down the slope
And round the climbing rose’s rope
The tangled weeds are hiding hope—
Hope in the blood-bird’s faint, last call,
Hope in the good, white rains that fall,
The garden hope that stirs through all.
And where the yellow quinces hung,
Where last year’s year-old song was sung,
She sings of gardens always young.
N.S.W.
HILARY LOFTING.


are nett and subject to confirmation before acceptance TERMS are nett caah against documents unless otherwise arranged.
AGREEMENTS are contingent upon Strikos, Fifes, Accidents and delays beyond our control.
vnvyisnv ‘viuoioia
«Ifw O * AVtMVtf O’X
3 N I
'll
n
, t , - l .
?t!
,f#Ja
»o* f
®/Vr
Z/f'o
S£*JSS?S
/ ‘^' v ’.
£//
CABLE. ADDRESS.
"THOMPSONS CASTLEMAINE' 1
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS'
THOMPSONS LTD CASTLEMAINE
CODES USED
A.B.C. 4 th & ST” EDITIONS
BEDFORD M c NEILL
MOREING & NEALS
MCNEILLS 1900 EDITION
BENTLEY S PHRASE
ENGINEERING 2? D EDITION
PRIVATE AND SPECIAL
Designers and Manufacturers of
MINING & GENERAL MACHIN-
ERY embodying all recent im-
provements.
STEAM ENGINES-Quick Revo-
lution Forced Lubricating type,
any power, also Reciprocating
Engines, plain, Corliss or Drop
Valve Types, suitable super-
heated steam.
OIL ENGINES of the Semi-Diesel
or Residual Oil Type for Marine
and Land purposes
AIR COMPRESSERS & BLOW-
-ING ENGINES, any capacity,
Steam, Electrically or Gear
Driven, also Vertical Quick
Revolution Forced Lubricating
Types.
CONDENSERS, Surface, Jet, Ejec-
tor and all recognized successful
types, also attached or inde-
pendent Air Pumps
STEAM BOILERS, Various Types
and Powers with Superheaters,
Mechanical Stokers, etc., also
Air Receivers, Tanks, Vats, etc
PUMPING ENGINES for Water
Works, Sewerage Schemes, Ir-
rigation, Mines, etc., also Single
or Multi-stage Centrifugal
Pumps, guaranteed efficiencie"
DREDGING PLANTS with “Ker
shaw” Gravel and Nozzle Pres-
sure Pumps or Bucket Elevator
types for treating Gold or Tin
Alluvial Deposits and for Har-
bor Dredging and Reclamation
purposes."
MARINE ENGINES for Common-
wealth Standard Ships and other
Services with shafting, propellers
and all equipment.
POINTS AND CROSSINGS for
Railway Requirements of
heaviest Rail Sections, also Tram
Cross-overs, etc
FORGINGS, including Crank-
shafts, Sugar Roll Shafts and al 1
classes of heavy forgings
WHEEL TYRES by Weldless
Process, of High Carbon Steel,
as supplied to Railway and
Tram Services throughout Aus-
tralasia. also Wheel Centres,
Axles etc.
STUDS (Engineers) SET
SCREWS, Bright Bolts and
Nuts. Bicycle Parts, Couplings
and similar class repetition
work.
CONTRACTORS to the Common-
wealth and State Governments
and the Royal Australian Navy
TELEPHONE N 9 5
CASTLEMAiNE EXCHANGE
ALL CORRESPONDENCE TO BE
ADDRESSED TO THE COMPANY
AND NOT TO INDIVIDUALS BYNAME
P. O. BOX N? 9
24th. March 191.9.
AM
MAIL POSTED
1<
LETTER
The Editor,
“The Bulletin,”
Sydney, N.S.W.
Dear Sir,
Australian Industry.
TYRES:— We desire to bring before your readers,
especially those interested in Railway and Tram-
way Services, the knowledge that Forg'ed Steel
Seamless Tyres are now being manufactured in
Australia.
These Tyres are made by us from High Carbon Steel
produced in Australia to a special analysis, forged and
finished in our special Presses and Rolls to strict speci-
fications—in size up to 6ft. diameter.
There is no necessity now to import these requirements
as in the past, and we confidently invite inquiries to any
specification.
WHEEL AXLES:— We also specialise in Forged
Steel Loco. Car and Waggon Axles, supplied in
the rough, or machine-finished to any requirements.
FORGINGS:— Our Forging Department, with its
special facilities and latest equipment, enables us to under-
take Heavy Forging's, handling blooms and ingots up
to 15 tons weight. We solicit orders for heavy forgings,
including Shafts, Crank Webs, Sugar Rolls, etc.; also orders
in bulk for Small Crank Shafts and Pressed Steel Forgings.
For our other specialties and manufactures we refer
your readers to the descriptive matter and illustrations in
the margin. Yours faithfully,
THOMPSON § CO. (castlemaine) PROPY. LTD.


' SAYS PHOSPHATE INCREASES
| STRENGTH AND ENDURANCE.
1 Weak, nervous, debilitated men and women
who become exhausted after the slightest
mental or physical exertion, to whom sleep
is denied, and whose drawn, haggard features
bear mute testimony to their pitiable condi-
tion, can regain health, strength and endur-
ance in a few weeks by obtaining from the
chemist a supply of 5-grain bitro-phospliate
tablets, and taking one regularly at each
meal. All the above painful conditions are
due to weak nerves and lack of nervous
energy. Bitro-pliosphate feeds the starved,
shrunken nerves, and builds up a reserve of
nervous energy by supplying in the only
assimilable form those phosphoric food ele-
ments which are the life of the nervous sys-
tem. The results following its use are most
gratifying. Sleeplessness usually disappears
within a week or ten days, thin people put
on flesh, strength returns to shrunken
muscles, the power of endurance-is doubled,
sunken cheeks fill out, the eyes become
bright, and all the old nervous worries and
dreads disappear, and life becomes what it
t&Sttlg living. Try it and see.
SPORTING
CARTRIDGES
Our Special Offer.
The Celebrated
SOVEREIGN, 21/- per 100
SMOKELESS, 20/6 per 100—insoo iota
CARTRIDGE, 20/- per 100-miooo lots.
This is the finest smokeless cartridge made.
12-Gauge, loaded, double-chilled shot, and
Nobel’s Empire Smokeless Powder.
Shot Nos. 2,3, 4,5, 6, 8 and 10.
We have the largest stocks in Victoria
of Winchester, Remington and Dominion
Cartridges. Send for special list.
McEWAN’S,
Melbourne’s Busiest Hardware Store,
119-125 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
A Signal Success
<S
WHSSM
The TOP-NOTCHScotdi.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Gouger”: Around the mouth of the
Bloomfield River (N.Q.) there grows a fern whose
strength seems to go to the making of the vege-
table’s large bulbous roots. These roots, when
sliced up fine and applied to a gaping r ound, are
the quickest thing on earth to draw o».t poisonous
matter. My mate’s hand, lately bitten by seme
poisonous insect, swelled up until the fingers burst
open to the bone. The flesh decayed away, and
amputation seemed the only thing to save him if
he could be got to a hospital. About this time a
blackbov turned up with some of the fern roots, and
the forlorn hope was tried, simply because there was
nothing else to do. It proved entirely successful.
The cure is rather drastic, owing to the strong draw-
ing power the vegetable exerts. Another peculiar
plant up here is a very ordinary sort of weed whose
roots, when crushed up and soaked in water, are a
swift cure for dysentery. What a boon it would
have been on Gallipoli! If these two herbs are
not on the doctors’ books, they ought to be.
♦ * * *
“Wart”: We hear a good deal from the
poets about the way the nightingale stage-manages
his performance. The Australian reed-warbler knows
all about the effects of moonlight and mystery, too.
But the reed-warbler does not sing by night only. Any
day between September and March you may hear
him among the reeds on the river bank. He beats
the nightingale by having the orchestral ripple of
water and the rustle of reeds as accompaniment to his
song. Even in the daytime he is seldom seen,
because his olive and brown harmonise so well with
the reeds, above which he seldom rises. He uses two
or three reeds as scaffold pole 3 for a neat nest
woven of strips from the leafy parts of the reeds.
His wife lays three or four greyish-white eggs
slightly blotched with umber and brown. I believe
he spends the winter somewhere up about Ceylon.
* * * *
“C.E.S.”: An interesting find has been
made in some newly-trenched ground in the Mary-
borough (Q.) municipal reserve. It is a carved
figure of a full-bearded abo. The figure, which is
about 24in. long, is naked except for a loin-cloth,
and is carved from bone, perhaps a human bone, it
being slightly curved. The features are chiselled with
almost photographic exactness. The curio was un-
earthed 4ft. below the surface, and is in an excellent
state of preservation. There was a master in the
land when that job was done.
“Cas”: The gohanna, or monitor lizard,
played an important part in many of black bro-
ther’s ceremonials. It was looked on with a certain
amount of awe by some tribes on the North Coast
(N.S.W.), Southern Bananaland and Frazer’s Island,
who believed that the crawler was specially
endowed by' the gods with the power of inflicting
grievous harm, when angered, by biting and ejecting
a salivary secretion. The Cingalese had a somewhat
similar belief. In preparing their poison mixture
( Kabara-tel ) they tied three live gohannas near the
fire whereon the brew was boiling, and then applied
hot coals to them to provoke the creatures to spit
into the potion.
“Nitram” : Have lately discovered the cham-
pion ant-trap. Knock the top out of a thoroughly
bright and clean syrup- or honey-tin and bury it till
the top is flush with the ground. Take a piece of
“nifty” beef, trail for a few inches along the ground
and drop into tin. The ants will follow the scent
into the smooth metal well and will be unable to
climb out again. Keep the tin thoroughly clean and
bright. Rust gives a foothold and spoils the trick.
“Pick”: How readily wild ducks iake
advantage of the spots where they are afforded sanc-
tuary by the bird-protection laws! On those
stretches of the ’Bidgee and Cotter (N.S.W.) that lie
within the Federal capital area wild-duck shooting is
prohibited and a caretaker lurks behind every tree
listening for the sound of a gun. The.ducks there
have become so tame that they scarcely bob their
beaks when a fisher plunks his sinker among them,
though farther up or down stream they are wary and
scared as of yore. At Bega, too, on the Yarranung
swamps, where shooting was not permitted, I have
seen ducks fly hastily from my presence on the river
and immediately after cluster along the swamp edge,
while pedestrians passed within a few yards.
“Murkah”: I have twice met greyhounds
doing sheep-dog work. In each ease I was told that
the infant had grown up with sheep-pups, and had
naturally taken to the trade. Both were true grey-
hounds. One, a fine-looking fawn, his owner claimed
to be as good a sheep-handler as he had ever seen,
and the hound “stayed” better than the other dogs.
The explanation lay in their different methods. In
the mile or so that I dawdled along watching opera-
tions the sheep-dog ran about incessantly and, to me,
needlessly, at nearly full speed. The greyhound
merely loped along. In his case defaulting sheep
were gathered in at an easy canter and he never
barked. The sheep-dog used up any surplus energy
in ceaseless yapping, probably swallowing pints of
dust in the process. I knew another greyhound that
regularly yarded the cows, but he was corrupted by
the society of a cattle-dog. Previously the hound
walked the milker 3 along, but noticing that the
cattle-dog sent them along on the easy run he pro-
bably thought that he’d see what he could do, and
thereafter endeavored to extract 40 miles an hour
out of the girls. We demanded his resignation and
sent him to yard rabbits.
NO ESCAPE.
TRAMP: “ See 'ere, Mum: I’m straight from
the influenzy 'orspital, an' if you don't
look slippy about get-tin' me sumfin to
eat I'll sneeze."
“Senex”: For fig-trees come up to the
Atherton (N.Q.) tableland, and you’ll see them in
hundreds, from the six-footer ’way up in a fork 50ft.
high, sending down a slender aerial, to the giant at
Kulara, with a 148 ft. girth. The trunk of the Kulara
tree is hollow, forming a huge chamber, which on the
hottest day is colder than a Freetrader’s charity.
There was a queer fig in a paddock out Barrine way
till the 1915 fires killed it. Two had grown up
about a chain apart, and, the branches interlocking,
had joined together until a solid buttress had formed
fully 5 ft. thick. I know another specimen, on the
edge of a clearing, which even at noon shades the
best part of an acre of ground.
“Toby C.”: A Gulf aboriginal was seri-
ously studying a monkey in a showman’s cage at
Cooktown when a patronising female kindly inquired:
“What you think of that little man, Jacky?” “Mine
tinkit,” he said, “big pfella kangaroo been marry
black gin—that pfella piccaninny.”
“Silas Snell”: Sheep stealing is not
habitual in Little Collins-street, but I've known it
done. The drovers were bringing a large flock down
William-street by night, and a motor in bad hands
got among them. There was a general scatter. Some
of the drove scampered up Little C’ollins, heading
east, and many of them percolated into side lanes and
byways. Bolliver had a room in this vicinity, and
THE OVERCROWDED CITY.
DAD ( down for an ’oliday): “Blowed if I
can understand 'ow they can say ’ouses
is scarce in the city.”
on attempting to leave his premises found the front
way into the dark alley blocked by a cluster of sheep.
Meat wa3 dear, and Bolliver was fond of dumb
animals; acting on the impulse of the moment he
grabbed a fat lamb, hauled the animal in and shut
the door. Then he took his misbegotten mutton into
a bade room and waited. In due time there came to
him the soft language of the gentle shepherd re-
collecting his herd. “Presently they will pass,”
thought Bolliver. But they did not pass. Bolliver
had failed to allow for the absurd conscientiousness
of the shepherd’s dog, which was barking at his front
door. Not content with barking, the dog was bound-
ing against the panels. Two drovers joined the dog.
They questioned, they cursed, and then they knocked.
Bolliver was rattled by this time, so he grabbed his
lamb, raced up the stairs to the top flat, found the
ladder leading to the roof, and shot the lamb out on
to the slates. Then he went blandly down to the
clamorous party and the vociferous dog. The men
demanded if a sheep of theirs had strayed on to the
premises. “Through the keyhole?” asked Bolliver.
“Or under the door,” suggested a sardonic shepherd.
“Search me!” said Bolliver. The dog was already
chasing up and down stairs, but could not place the
absentee, and eventually the drovers withdrew, haul-
ing their dog off. This explains very simply the
inexplicable mystery of the sheep that plumped down
through the skylight of a certain city hotel, landing
on a bed occupied by two three-guinea boarders, in
the dark hours of the following morning.
“Dale” : It is to be hoped that the chief’s
wife who supplied the milk for the tea (B. 17/4/19)
was a genial soul, as well as obliging. Let
“G.M.S.” be warned by the lesson learnt by S.
Pepys in 1667, thus: “On this occasion Dr. Whistler
told a pretty story related by Muffett, a good author,
of Dr. Cayus that built Caius College; that being
very old, and living only at that time upon woman's
milk, he, while he fed upon the milk of an angry,
fretful woman, was so himself; and then, being
advised to take it of a good-natured, patient woman,
he did become so beyond the common temper of his
age.”
“Camden”: Falling is a gift with some
people. When we arrived at the farm we found
they had a new milk-and-useful boy. “Rex is a
willin’ lad,” explained the boss, “but somethin's
always happenin’ to him. He was chucked off th’
pony yesterday and th’ missus is just puttin’ some-
thin’ on his elbow.” After we had been there three
days he started to drive for the mail and emptied
himself on to the road. It was slight concussion that
time and he had to take a rest. When he resumed
duty he did a couple of small jobs for me and I
reckoned I oWed him a shilling. The money was
waiting for him when I sighted him pedalling along
the road on the boss’s push-bike. I whistled, but
he didn't hear me. “Never mind,” said I to myself,
“something will happen presently.” It did. He
fell off with a crash. I strolled up and gave him
the money. He would have fallen over himself
with gratitude only he was sitting down.
“Wealsman”: Professor Flynn, of Tas.
University, has been scraping the bottom of the
Derwent, above Hobart, to find out what ails the
scallop beds which up to three or four years ago
were very prolific. He discovers that mud and ooze
have fouled the estuary floor, encouraging the growth
of Mr. and Mrs. Scallop's natural enemies, such as
crabs, starfish and boring-worm. There are three
kinds of scallops in the Denvent, but only two are
plentiful—the “commercial” and the “doughboy” of
the fishermen. The first
is uni-sexual, and always
sleeps with the door ajar;
the other is Mr. and Mrs.
Doughboy in one, and the
family is innocent of
latchkeys. The inability
of the “commercial” to
close up like an oyster
renders it open to attacks
from marauding starfish
arid crabs; the “dough-
boy” keeps out the crabs,
but a starfish sometimes
slips a deadly sucker
through a little oriel
window. Incidentally, the
fisherman’s habit of cut-
ting a starfish in two to
kill it is a fool of a habit,
for a bisected starfish
promptly becomes two or
more starfish, and two
separate appetites are let
loose on the scallops. The
best way to decrease the
number of these sporadic
nuisances is to take them
for a walk ashore and
lose them in the nearest
bushflre. Mere laymen,
especially the «ort that
sits on a foreshore rock
and ruminates while
waiting for a bite, opine
that the Derwent scallop-
beds will never bloom
again until the public
abattoirs in the vicinity
are abolished. The drain-
age flows into the Derwent, providing a happy
hunting-ground for numerous forms of marine
scavengers which the angler of a dozen years ago
never saw except in the height of the jim-jain
season. Especially has the blue crab increased and
multiplied thereabouts. Along the tridentate fore-
shore of the picturesque Prince of Wales Bay it is
now practically impossible to fish for mullet, flat-
head, cod, etc., with anything less edible than
copper-wire lines, as the crabs make short work of
hemp and catgut.
“Te Whare”: I’m afraid the “go” (moni-
tor lizard) must stand charged with the destruction
of many birds’ eggs and nestlings, including those
of several very useful species. I’ve often seen him
aloft in quest of the eggs or chicks of laughing
jacks and sacred (or wood) kingfishers, lie is also
a hog on ground-lark (Australian pipit) families,
and sometimes captures the mother-bird on the nest.
A go. shot in the Bega (N.S.W.) district vomited a
number of fledgling parrots—rosellas, I think.
Another was seen lying in wait in a fern-carpeted
gully on the margin of which a flock of small birds
were feeding. As the birds crossed to the other side
of the gully, flying low, the go. sprang at them and
narrowly missed scoring. Yet again, while I was
intent on photographing a nestful of very young
whipbirds, an enormous go. twice visited the studio
—a clump of reed grass. The young coach-whips
were missing a day or so afterwards, and I blame
that go. for it. He is a fine and persistent rabbiter
and useful scavenger, with the appetite and diges-
tion of a shark. But he eats some of Nature’s best
decorations.
ON AND ON FOR EVER.
FIRST DUSTY PEDESTRIAN: “ 'Ow would it
haffect yer thirst if toe 'ad a hit o'
pipin' wiv a tap wot was connected up
wiv that brewery, Rupert?"
SECOND THIRSTY TOURIST: “But what d'yer
leant a tap for?"
“Uckle”: “Roamer” (B. 24/4/19) says:
“During my travels on the Fortesque Biver two
gins gave birth to twins.” Isn’t it nearly time
“RoamerV’ missus insisted upon him stopping at
home?
(Continued on page 22.)
SOME THINGS I WONDER AT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
As 1 ride among the sunburnt trees or on the open
plain
My brain keeps striving all it knows some problems
to explain;
Yet when, at sunset, I at last my destination gain,
I find I am no wiser and my troubles I retain.
I’ll tell you what I want to know —you’ll help me
all you can:
Did j'ou ever meet upon this earth a really bad old
man ?
A bloke who’d look you in the face and say, as
many should:
“Though now I'm old and useless, I was never any
good.”
Whilst solving other problems put this amongst the
rest —
Why ha 3 every man who owns a dog at all times
got the best?
Though you should search the whole world o’er and
muster every hound
To work a mob of cattle his equal can’t be found.
And why is it, though Nature really does not change
her ways,
You hear on every station: “Horses don’t buck
nowadays 1”
Or, “Years ago you’d often see a brumby sling his
hide;
Now—why, you hardly ever see a bushman who can
ride!”
I often hear of drovers, too, in those stories of the
past;
But they’ve become extinct as well —they were too
good to last.
It takes at least a dozen men, two dozen nags as
well,
To match a drover and his dog in the stories that
they tell.
But still we do the same old work for just the same
old pay.
We drove, we ride, we woi-k and sweat a great deal
more than they.
And when at night our work is done and we sit
around the fire
We’re bored to death and kept from rest by the
antiquated liar.
N.S.W.
C. H. CHARYEL.


GOOD NOVELS
for One Shilling
The long nights are setting in and you will inquire a stock of good reading.
There’s no need to purchase expensively-bound volumes by overseas
authors of whom you have never previously heard.
Patronise well-known Australian authors. Ask to be shown novels in the
famous
“Bookstall” Series of Australian Books
A series of novels by the best of Australian authors specially written
and published for Australian readers.
100 NOVELS. OVER 2,000,000 ALREADY SOLD.
1/- each.
All Bookstalls and
Booksellers.
1/U posted.
NOTABLE ADDITIONS TO THE SERIES.
The N.S.W. Bookstall Co., Ltd., has arranged to publish several
BEATRICE GRIMSHAW, the Australian authoress who has won world-wide tame.
Nobody is'writing of the Islands in the same attractive way as Miss Gnmshaw does.
The first volume,
“THE CORAL QUEEN ” By BEATRICE GRIMSHAW
is now ready. Order it from the nearest agent or direct from the publisheis.
A New Author—
MR. JACK McLaren
is well known as a contributor to many papers. His first novel,
“RED MOUNTAIN”
is a splendid story of Northern Australia, and will undoubtedly prove to be one of
the most popular novels in the Series.
FEW OF THE. BEST SELLERS
SALLY.
By J. H. M. ABBOTT.
FACT’RY ’ANDS.
By EDWARD DYSON.
THREE YEARS WITH THUNDER-
BOLT.
By AMBROSE PRATT.
BILLY PAGAN.
By RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
MR. BARRINGTON.
By ROY BRIDGES.
THE SQUATTER’S WARD
By EDWARD S. SORENSON.
IN THE LAST STRIDE.
By ARTHUR WRIGHT.
BULLY HAYES—BUCCANEER.
By LOUIS BECKE.
A CURATE IN BOHEMIA.
By NORMAN LINDSAY.
THE RECIPE FOR RUBBER.
By RALPH STOCK.
Published by
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.,
476 George Street, SYDNEY.
I‘*
a
’ll
WM
A*
I
m
m
■■
\
as
4
WZk.
fi
***
■
“The wise man wins his girl with < HilliersY’
Mailed to any address in Aus-
tralia on the same day they are
made. Direct from the Factory.
Prices —3/-, 5/-, 6/6, 10/6, 15/-
and 25/-, Post Free.
162 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Purchase YOUR Overcoat To-day.
A LEVIATHAN Ensures Best Service.
The Man that requires a really Serviceable
Winter Overcoat, at a Moderate Price, can
feel confident that by Purchasing a Levia-
than Overcoat it will ensure absolute Com-
fort and Satisfaction.
FANCY CHEVIOT OVERCOATS— Smart
Single-breasted Styles in Greys and Browns.
Cut and Tailored in our own Workrooms,
from splendid-wearing English Cheviots,
half-belted back and vent, Stran Cuffs, set-
in sleeves. Chest, 34in. to 42m.
THE.
COAT
r~r*\
00|"
THE
COAT
DOUBLE-BREASTED TWEEDS.— Fault-
lessly cut in Dark and Medium Grey, and
Brown ENGLISH TWEEDS of soft fleecy
finish, half-belted back and vent, Strap
Cuffs, set-in sleeves. Warmly lined through-
out. Chest, 34in. to 42in.
THE
COAT
on
V U“
THE
COAT
DARK-GREY CHEVlOTS. —Fashionable
Single-breasted Styles, Cut and Tailored in
our own Workrooms, well and comfortably
lined throughout, designed with large Flap
Pockets, Gauntlet Cuffs, Step Collar, and
Belt all round (as illustration). Chest,
34in. to 42in.
THE infil THE
COAT IWr COAT
DOUBLE-BREASTED CHEVIOTS, with
Black Velvet Collar, half-belt at back,
110/-, 115/-
State Chest Measurement and Height.
Send Your Order To-day.
r>
m
mSSt
m
! 1
Illustrated Winter Catalog—Now Ready -FREE on Application.
Returned Soldiers
and Sailors 10 per
cent. Special Dis-
count off all
Marked Prices.
SHOP BY POST—WE PAY CARRIAGE.
m tm
Leviathan
Cor. Swanston & Bourke Streets, MELBOURNE
BRITISH-MADE
10-inch
DOUBLE-
SIDED
2/6
EACH
(N.Z. 3/-)
0
10-inch
DOUBLE-
SIDED
2/6
EACH
(N.Z. 3/-)
Some Splendid Double-sided
REGAL Records at 2/6 each.
6867
f Here We Are Again ..
1 March: “Now, Are We
All Here?'
King's Military Band
Kimr’s Military Band
6885
King’s
King’s
Military Band
Military Band
jTo Arms, March
I Johnny O’Morgan, March
7182
Silver Stars Band
Silver Stars Band
S 1916 Pantomime Hits, Part 1
l 1916 Pantomime Hits, Part ~
7224
1916 Pantomime Hits, Part 3
1916 Pantomime Hits, Part 1
Band of H.M. Scots Guards
Rnnri of H.M. Scots Guards
6874
Descriptive
Descriptive
f Jerry Jinks, Scallywag, Part 1
l Jerry Jinks, Scallywag, Part i
6883
Descriptive
Descriptive
f Departure
{ Arrival of
of Australian Troops for Front
Australian Troops in Dg.vpt .. •
6920
llt'gal Orchestra
IJegal Orchestra
( “Rosy Kapture” Selections, Part 1
1 “Kosy Rapture” Selections, Part 4
7218
Descriptive
Descriptive
The Tillage Wedding
Waiting for the Early Doors
7269
F W Ramsey, baritone
F. W. Ramsey, baritone
(What You’ve Never Had ..
{ Great Big Wonderful Baby
7217
Private Michael
Private Michael
Cassidy, Part 1
Cassidy, Part 2
Jack
Jack
Norworth
Xorworth
6939
Walter Walters
Walter Walters
$ The Modest Curate
\ Wondering Willie
Harrison Latimer, baritone
... William Thomas, tenor
\ The Four-foot-ten Brigade
l The Constant Lover
6888
Stanley Kirkby, baritone
F. W. Ramsey, baritone
Patriotic Patrick Multloon .
Sing a Song About a Sailer
6817
F. W.
F. W.
Ramsey, baritone
Ramsey, baritone
J I Want to Go to Michigan
1 Beautiful Baby Doll
6817
Harrison Lat imer. baritone
Harrison Latimer, baritone
( Are We Downhearted? No!
I Bravo Territorials
6089
~, „ Harrison Latimer, baritone
The Lads in Navy Blue Stanley Kirkby, baritone
We Didn’t Want to Fight
6940
( Somewhere a Voice is Calling
1 Sleep and the Roses
Robert Adams, tenor
Robert Adams, tenor
6745
William Thomas, tenor
. Robert Adams, tenor
The Sunshine of Your Smile
The Woman Thou Gavest Me
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR “REGAL”
RECORDS
avnxvT NSW —Grafonola. Ltd., Daking House. Rawson Llaee.
SSIboVrNB. VIC., and TASMANIA.—Mestrs. Hugo W ertkeim Ptj.,
MELM 173 William gtreet Melbollrne .
optcranf O —King and King, Ltd., Queen Street.
BRISBAJIw* 111 ® n t 4-ri i«><> T>ii«ie Street.
ADELAIDE, S A.—Cornell, Etd., Mr me street.
DtNEDIN, N.Z. —Webley Sons & Gofton, Ltd.
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.


THE
DURABLE
'RAD £ MARK
DURABESTOS
The grreat difficulty in procuring the many kinds of Building Materials
£nhitl a £' OU * S .. trs L des a " d **? e ski,,ed labor required is a serious
problem for the Home Builder.
DURABESTOS, the ASBESTOS-CEMENT SHEETS and SLATES,
has solved this problem for building the home with the very least of expert attention.
vear in & uad I T?a?out re tha a f hS2§ I SS, B in ldill M sturdy ’ s ° ? im P le ’ that it gives the utmost good wear-
yeai in and jear out—that it is indeed “The Durable,” because of its satisfying Reliability and Permanence.
Booklets describing the method of walling and roofing with Durabestos, together with samples, post free.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED,
Manufacturers,
Head Offices Baptist Street, Redfern, N.S.W.
Postal Address: Box 474 G.P.0., Sydney.
56 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
243 Collins St.,
MELBOURNE.
Currie St.,
ADELAIDE.
Lord St.,
PERTH.
Amelia St.,
BRISBANE.
Macquarie St.,
HOBART.
St. John St.,
LAUNCESTON.
“Bart” : None of the recent cures suggested
for snake-bite have included the one invented by a
lady who was living in the old Trial Harbor pub in
the days when Heeinskirk tinfields had petered out
and Remine was a bit of deserted coastline. One
day she was going to chop some sticks to light a
fire. She had a pile of brushwood, and in reaching
down to pick some of it up she failed to notice the
snake. It sampled her finger. She had an axe in
her right hand. Without consulting an encyclopaedia
or appointing a Commission to investigate and
advise, she placed the punctured finger on the cliop-
ping-block, and the surgical operation was per-
formed. Having bandaged the stump of the finger as
well as she could, she killed the snake, caught a nag
and saddled it, and rode 13 miles over granite
boulders which pretended to be a road into Zechan to
a doctor. The cure was effective, but is not to be
recommended for snake-bites in the head.
THE TENDER-HEARTED
COCKY.
VISITOR: “How truly benevolent
the people here actually
put up electric fans for the
cows!”
“8.M.L.” : This is my affidavit. Some
time ago I had a caged rabbit. 'For the first few
days after capture he was given food and water. It
was then noticed that, whilst always willing to eat,
he neglected altogether the drink in his trough, so
that part of his hand-out was discontinued and he
was not given liquid of any kind for the rest of
his stay with me —about 12 months. Then I found
that pet rabbit's were agin the law, and we had him
for dessert.
* * * *
“Ioni”: Never get the “wind up” when
climbing for cocoanuts if a snake grabs you, for
tree-climbing reptiles are not venomous. The venom-
ous species never seek observation-posts.
* * * *
“Ragar”: Here’s a starter for the stink
stakes. He’s about twice the size of the pumpkin-
beetle, but rounder, dull blue-black all over, slow-
moving, silent in flight, and appears only after sun-
down during the North-West monsoon. He’S inoffen-
sive enough till disturbed, but when touched I’ll
back him to out-stink anything alive or dead. One
of him got down my back recently at Saibai, off the
New Guinea coast. I squashed him, and then I
wished I was dead. What’s the name, use and habits
of this air-poisoner?
* * * *
“Whiskers”: There is a lot of wire-weed
in the scrubs in the Upper Goulburn country (Vic.),
and it gives the wild cattle a bad time. They have
to be continually poking their way through it, and
in time the weed works cuts in their horns. In some
cases, a horn has been sawn right off.
* * ■» *
“Toby C” : It was out Urandangi way that
the green-eyed fiend of jealousy was nearly stirred
into action by a blackboy’s recital of what he had
seen during the boss’s absence. Jacky told his tale
in trembling tones. “You know your wife, Boss?
You know dat ovarseer? By golly, Boss, I no like
tell-it you—you rouse.” “No, Jacky, I won’t rouse
if you tell me just what happened. Come on, now,
boy—quick!” “By golly, Boss, you rouse if I tell-it
you.” “No, Jacky; no rouse—l’ll give you big
bottle rum.” “Waal, Boss, you know your wife ’n’
you know dat ovarseer. Him no good pfella dat.
When you go alonga road, him bin ride your missus’3
hoss.”
“Billy T.”: I claim to Lave had the
acquaintance of the only navvy who ever wore a
monocle. He was an ordinary pick-and-shovel hand
working on the Dunolly to St. Arnaud line when that
road was in the making, big, combative and beer-
eating, and lie wore a stringless monocle at work
and at large, eating and drinking. Once I saw
him go through a ding-dong battle with a tough
“Geordie,” and his eyeglass never budged in 30
minutes of rough-and-tumble. A bet was made one
night in Mother Hardy’s that “Toff” Bonnington slept
in his eyeglass, and a delegation crept to Bonning-
ton’s tent, and struck a match. “Toff” was lying
on his back, snoring like a drowning hippo, and the
monocle was tight in its place. I reckoned I was
backing a certainty, having seen Bonnington outside
his tent the morning before having a wash with
his monocle on.
* * * »
“Melos”: All birds have a small mem-
brane far down the throat, close to the lungs, which
vibrates as the owner, in singing, forces air through
the windpipe; and the result is a sound similar to
that produced on a wind instrument. The volume
and pitch are determined by the bird’s dexterity in
manipulating this organ: some with finely-developed
vibratory apparatus lack the power to produce appre-
ciable music; others with comparatively inferior
mechanism get splendid results. Taking into con-
sideration his toy-like sound-box, I claim that the
rare red-throat is the most expert musician we have.
He is only a mite—under sin.—yet there is as much
sweetness and volume in his song as there is in that
of the more bulky reed-warbler, an aspirant for the
Caruso prize. —-
“Gouger”: This is the Murray Island
(N.Q.) Jonah tradition. Many years ago a “boy” and
his missus were fishing off the rocks. Presently the
wife went to cook the meal, and her boss then threw
out an exceptionally strong line. Suddenly the line
tore out of his hand and went whizzing through the
water, until it fouled around a rock. To free it
the fisher dived in and was met under the rock by
a giant rock-cod, into whose gaping jaws he was
drawn. Away went the fish as the line snapped.
Some hours afterwards the black in the belly heard
a dull rumbling. Listening intently, he made out
the piercing call of sea-birds. The cod was cruising
along Bramble Cay. “Now,” thought the prisoner,
“if I could cut through this fish’s belly, I could
land on this sandbank. But there would be no
water, no food. Better I stop and listen. Byemby
‘fish will swim near land. I will hear land-birds.
Then I will cut this fish’s belly.” Many days
passed, and the frantic wife and friends gave the
missing man up as dead. After a long time, the
traveller heard a low rumbling. This he knew to be
breakers on some shore. He had previously taken off
his shell armlet and had sharpened the strongest
shell by rubbing the others upon it. Meanwhile he
had been living on fish which the mammoth con-
tinually swallowed, but being in such a cool place he
did not feel very thirsty. Grasping the sharpened
shell, the boy tried to cut his way out, but the skin
was thick and tough, like the hide of a pig. The
fish, feeling a sharp, ever-increasing pain in his
stomach, darted forward quicker and quicker. The
boy slashed fiercely, and the fish, making great
jumps, threw himself on the shallow beach and was
stranded. Just at this time a chief and his son,
living near by, came walking along the beach, and
presently began to cut up the fish to carry it away.
In a few minutes out rolled the boy, and all three
stared at one another, but as the local nigs, spoke
in a New Guinea dialect the stranger could not
understand. So he and the fish were taken to the
tribe, and there was great rejoicing, for the canni-
bals reckoned on a feast of roast man. But the chief
would not consent, and for days the boy walked
about between the headman and his son for protec-
tion. Finally the tribe decided to depose the chief
unless he consented to give up the stranger. So the
latter, who by this time had learned some of the
language, said: “Let your family and I take the
swiftest canoe and clear out for Murray Island.”
One day they rushed the canoe. The chief's wife
and the Murray Islander stood to the paddles, while
the chief and his son sent arrow after arrow into the
mass of angry figures who came tearing down the
beach. Soon a score of canoes were manned, and the
chase began ; but a favorable wind springing up, the
fleeing party drew away, and after many days
reached Murray Island, where the people greeted the
boy who had come back from the dead. A feast was
spread in honor of the chief, his son and wife ;
there was much singing and dancing, and afterwards
the visiting canoe was loaded with cocoanuts and
bananas and yams, and the chief, with his son and
wife, set sail for New Guinea. Immediately
the canoe was out of sight the Murray Island tribe
fell on the home-comer and killed him. For had he
not been given up as dead? Even his burial-feast
had been cooked and eaten. So why now should he
be alive? (Which reasoning gives you a fair idea of
the black man’s logic.)
* * * *
“D.F.”: Queensland black brother was a
great netmaker in his day. According to a report
brought back by Flinders after a run up the coast
in 1799, the fragments of a net made of line
three-fourths of an inch in circumference were picked
up at Glasshouse Bay. The mesh was big enough to
let a moderate-sized porpoise through. Perhaps it
had been used for dugong.
“Emgee”: On that delightful scrap of
palm-land, Lord Howe Island, four fine old gum-trees
rear, their heads above the spreading banyans, as
thouga they would catch a glimpse of their home-
land beyond the horizon. I was shown these trees
as great curiosities. The children of the island
stand rather in awe of the strangers, but are never-
theless very proud of them. They are stringy-bark,
and with their long, narrow leaves of dull green they
form a strong contrast to the surrounding vegetation.
1 hey stand side by side in a line and give the
appearance of having been planted by the hand of
man, but when and by whom I could not find out.
* * # •*
“Melos”: The broadheaded and the Ste-
phens banded snakes are often confused with the
deadly tiger on account of their similarly-arranged
stripes. The characteristic features of the tiger-snake
are high courage, puffing out the neck when about to
strike (an action that marks it out from most of
our crawlers), the potency of the venom and the
crimson eye. His habit of hanging on and re-
peatedly venting his poison into a victim makes this
fellow a particularly dangerous enemy. Most
snakes are content with a vicious snap, usually
prefacing the act with a low hissing sound. The
deadly copperhead mostly gives a prolonged warning
hiss, doubles portion of its anatomy backward, and,
with head and neck flattened, darts forward at its
quarry with the speed of a politician on the scent of
a job.
CROSSING THE HEADS.
YOUNG DAN: “By cripes, she struck
a boshter stump that time, mum!"
“Riverina”: One day in Wagga (N.S.W.)
a ’Bidgee whaler on a beer-cruise handed me a poem
to read. It was a rugged but touching effusion,
breathing devotion to the grand old gum, and
finished with this emphatic statement:—
Search where you will among the Scriptures,
1 ou won’t find another tree like the Eucerlypshus!
Vtould this be the “spell of the bush” that bards
sing about?
“Flossie Flapper” : I read in your paper
the other day that a bushman was using ’possum-
skins to keep ants off his table. I think it should be
stopped under the War Precautions Act. Here are
we screwing and scraping to buy furs for ourselves
this winter, while selfish men are actually wasting
them by wrapping them round legs of tables. What
about our legs?
* * * *
“Melos”: Some years ago the employees
at a meat-canning works on the Clarence River
(N.S.W.) struck work and set out in a body to see
an abo. fight a few miles distant. The boss, on
making his customary round that morning, found the
premises deserted by all save a casual who had
volunteered to stay behind and explain matters.
Bursting with indignation, the boss mounted his
horse and rode out with the intention of sacking all
hands; but when he reached the battle-front he got
such rousing cheers from the absconders that he was
disarmed and had to join the audience.
“E.J.C”: “A. E. Yarra” (B. 10/4/19)
in his benediction of the “donk” errs when he says:
“On plods the donk, with never a look to right or
left, never a flick of the ear.” No matter where or
what he is doing, the donk’s ears are always moving.
Our drivers used to swear that they semaphored the
war news to each other.
THE DEATH AND BITRIAL OF MR. KITT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The big dam at the Piper burst, and swept the sand-
heaps down.
It left a trail of slurry from the river to the town;
It shifted Billy’s engines, drove the stokers from
their graft,
And tumbled half a billion tons of mullock down the
shaft.
But the jump-ups saved the miners; and when all
was said and done
The dead and missing from the mine amounted to
but one.
Andy lvitt was in a sand-pit slowly cleanin’ out the
same,
When the rush of many waters and the swoop of
slurry came.
And now the pit was full once more, packed tight
with, tons of sand ;
Down-under Andy slumbered, with his shovel in his
hand,
While above him, in addition, ghostly plains of
slurry shone.
Bless you, no one thought of Andy till half a week
had gone!
While we wait directors’ orders re the digging up of
Kitt
Comes his widow with a parcel. On her face is
sorrow writ.
Her tears flow down. She says deceased he was the
best of men.
She’s more than half-convinced she’ll never see his
like agen.
The widow opes her parcel, sticks a board up on the
lease,
Which says: “In Memory of Andrew Kitt, and May
He Rest In Peace 1”
“Don’t dig him up to bury him,” says she, “it isn't
sense.
I take it kind of Providence to save me that
expense!”
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


m
\\V»
*
I
V
SB
W\\\
I
&
k
a
P*s
Si
esssg
&?
m,
SB
t
jSp®
0
Ik
tec
m
m
IS
*S
zmic
2S3J
/
o
3»
/
«W*
ft
0
I
I
ANOTHER"DUNLOP "TRIUMPH
Australia's Greatest Speed Event, THE MORTLAKE “200, ’ Resulted as follows:
1. A. E. SUTTON on Dunlop Tyres
2. D. BREWSTER on Dunlop Tyres
3. J. STOFFERS on Dunlop Tyres
FASTEST TIME on Dunlop Tyres
By D. Brewster —3 hours, 46 minutes, 55 seconds,
whilst
W. J. OUSLEY, on “ DUNLOPS,” put up the most remarkable
Speed Performance yet recorded on the Road in the World,
by covering 101.7-10 Miles in the Phenomenal Time of 96
Minutes 13 Seconds. —So much for Speed!
As Regards Reliability
as usual, “Dunlops” were to the front. Fifteen of the riders to score Full
Points in the Reliability Contest used “ Dunlops a Greater Success than
scored by all the Other Makes of Tyres put together. When you desire
Service with Reliability, Speed, and Economy,
DUNLOP TYRES
WILL MEET ALL REQUIREMENTS
All States
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
(Founders of the Pneumatic Tyre Industry)
And New Zealand


School Children
are very liable to catch
cold. They have to
go in all weathers —
often having to sit in
school with wet feet. Apart from this, they are always face to
face with the risfc from infection —especially when epidemics of
Whooping Cough, Measles, Diphtheria, influenza, etc., are about.
Mothers of School Boys and Girls however can he always FRE£
of ANXIETY if they hayo a bottle of
PdftlP C
C<H iIC d
Bronchitis
= Cure =
in the house, as one dose of this Medicine at the
first indication of a “cold” will at once “nip in the
hud” what might otherwise pro?e to he a serious
illness. Cork the bottle up —the rest will keep.
For Coughs, Croup,
Golds on the Chest
The REMEDY with the
REPUTATION.
From all CHEMISTS and STORES.
W. G. HEARNE & CO. Ltd.,
GEELONG, VICTORIA,
Sydney, N.S.W., Wellington, N. 2.
2/6
4/6
Double
Size
O'i
m
ft.
B
&
S
ex
SSiS
-OS
\
Vi
J
12.
are just the qualities that make it a failure
for dramatic presentation.
Edmond Rostand was born at Marseilles
in 18(19, and went to Paris to practise law.
But he was a poet before lie was a lawyer—
even before he was a dramatist. His lyrics
are charming with soft cadences and deft use
of words: —
Drummer of love, 10, how our fate agrees!
[, too, blend sad and merry melodies!
It is my heart —that sombre tone of ill,
Heavier to carry than your drum, my lad !
But always o’er its plaintive notes and sad,
That mocking pipe, my spirit, whistles still.
All his verse shows spontaneity, and is
written with verve; his wit is keen; his
versification skilful and exquisite. Though
he undoubtedly failed —like his contemporary
Stephen Phillips, and all our great poets of
the past century—to bring about a perma-
nent restoration of the poetical drama, he is
destined to be remembered as a poet of dis-
tinction. He was elected a member of the
French Academy in 1901—the youngest man
ever admitted. “Cyrano de Bergerac”
marked the pinnacle of his fame as a
dramatist. “Chantecler” was expected by
many to eclipse even “Cyrano,” but when
finally presented in 1900 it proved a failure
and disappointment. After “Chantecler”
there followed what is described as a “panto-
mime accompanied by a poem”—“Le Bois
Sacrfi,” It attracted little notice. And until
his death last year he was engaged upon
another drama, “Faust.”
Rostand is not typical of modern French
dramatists. While he wrote, the French
stage was beset with “problem-plays”; the
“Theatre Libre” had been founded and pro-
duced social dramas by Henri Becque,
Brieux and Capus. The theatre became an
avenue towards the discussion of living diffi-
culties. With these Rostand took no part.
He had no solution to offer of the enigmas of
life. He had no poisoned shafts to fling at
civilisation, and the traditional remnants of
barbarism that civilisation is wont to carry
in its wake —the orthodox theology, the
miasma of politics, the matrimonial com-
promise, the lamentable systems of educa-
tion, the industrial unrest, or the intolerable
butchery and horrors, surpassing one’s worst
imaginings of Hell, which result periodically
from national antagonisms. Though he may
have seen in what the callow call civilisa-
tion and progress only “a tyranny of shams,”
and though his heart may have throbbed to
the wilted lives of the poor, he never played
the role of social or moral reformer. Icono-
clasm did not form part of his mental syn-
thesis. He threw no “flashes of light into
the darkness that hides the eternal verities.”
If annihilation be the end of this strange,
eventful history, he w r as satisfied: he sum-
moned no literary Abracadabras in support
of a heavenly hereafter. He was content
to sail his dramatic fleet on enchanted
waters; to make sweet music and embody
old humanity in the quaint garb of old
Romance.
REG. S. ELLERY.
A Satchel of Books
Economic Statesmanship is a uew work by J. Ellis
Barker, a man who is qualified to fill the" positions
once occupied by Gifi'en and Mulhall. But unlike
them he isn’t a mere gatherer of figures from which
an official position or a habit of mind prohibits the
drawing of inferences. Barker is a good British
patriot, a strenuous Protectionist and a brilliant
man with a gospel to preach. He supplies masses
of figures ana he preaches sermons from them that
are calculated to make the old, dull, stereotyped
Freetrader feel angry as well as futile. He would
be a fine Government Statistician if he was allowed
to intersperse bright comments and essays with his
calculations. Otherwise he probably wouldn’t take
on the statistical job. (John Murray, London.)
The Land of the Big Things, by Leslie Howard
Gordon (Hodder and Stoughton), is another of the
horde of American stories of the “crook” who is
made straight by the only girl in the world. It is a
poor yarn with shooting in every chapter.
Jaunty Jock, by Neil Munro (Wm. Blackwood and
Sons). If you want pictures of Scotch life and
character and scenery you can’t go far wrong to con-
sult Neil Munro. This is a collection of his short
stories, a trifle mystical some of them, entertaining
all of them. There’s excellent character-drawing in
“A Return to Nature,” and if you went to a village
school 30 years ago there is joy for you in “Copen-
hagen.”
The Inky Way
When the A.J.A. was formed some years
ago the idea at the back of the minds of the
leaders was a confederation of newspaper
workers. Another step on the road was
made last week in N. S. Wales, when the
State branch of the A.J.A. formed an alli-
ance with the Printing Trades Industry
Employees’ Union of Australia.
Taylor Darbyshire, formerly a bright star
in the Melbourne newspaper world, has
thrown up his brief as associate director o£-
J. C. Williamson, Ltd., in favor of a place
on the London staff of the Australian Press
Association. Apparently he wanted a better
show.
Dorothy Percival, a new novelist, has hit
on quite a new idea in “Footsteps.” The
heroine was reading in bed, in a lonely
house, when the villain entered. Being hard
pressed, she just biffed him once with the
candlestick, and he went down and out.
Clearly a heavy brass candlestick should
form part of the toilet-set of every really
nice girl. You can’t foil a villain to any
noticeable extent with electric-light fittings.
Hugh Walpole, whose “Dark Forest” and
“Green Mirror” are amongst the best of re-
cent English novels, was born in Maoriland
about 30 years ago. It is said that he began
an historical novel at the age of five; and he
seems to have been writing persistently ever
since. His father, a professor of theology
who afterwards became a bishop, took him to
New York when Hugh was seven. Eventu-
ally he went to England, graduated at Cam-
bridge, taught school for a while and then
became a journalist, using his experiences in
his novels. Of late he has been exploiting
his acquaintance with Russia and Russian
fiction, with good results.
Business, Bobbery, etc.
“Ex-Milko”: I’m not in the trade now;
so you can have the benefit of this. When
a driver goes short on his run, he puts about
half the milk ordered in the billycan that
most of his customers leave on the window-
sill for him. Then with the middle fingers,
which he has dipped in the milk, he makes
a number of representations of paw-marks
around the can. Shortly afterwards an
exasperated housewife wishes once more that
the neighbors wouldn’t keep cats.
“Bouragi”: “Gouger” (B. 20/3/T9)
credits diving-goggles and water-telescopes
to Japanese ingenuity. Both were used in
Europe long ago; probably the Levantine
sponge-fishers should have the credit for
their invention. Further, both contrivances
were in use in Torres Strait for beche-de-mer
fishing long before Nippon found his way
into the trade. The primitive box-telescope
described by “'Gouger” is out of date, expen-
sive and elaborate modern instruments tak-
ing its place—where white owners are con-
cerned, at any rate.
* * * *
“'Hay”: Re the early S. Australian reaper
that was pushed from behind by bullocks.
Ridley’s, the pioneer reaper, was pulled from
the front and steered from the back. The
old drawing from which he took the idea
represented a cart pushed from the back by
a couple of little humped bullocks driven by
a nigger in a loin-cloth. Fixed to the back
of the cart was a comb that caught the
heads of the crop while another nig, who
stood in the vehicle, raked them in with a
blade fastened to a long handle. I don’t
know whether the original was Egyptian or
Indian. Ridley’s improvement had the
comb set out far enough to prevent the crop
being trampled by the team, and had the
machine pulled from the front. He added
the beaters that threshed the heads and
threw the grain and chaff back into the body
of the machine. In a short time one man
was able to operate the reaper—driving and
steering-—the bend in the steering-bar allow-
ing the foot to be used.
A shire council in Western N. S. Wales
recently advertised for a surveyor and sani-
tary inspector at a salary of fIOO per year.
Amongst the applications the aldermen got
this
, Sir3 »—Herewith receive my application for
ihe dual position of Surveyor and Sanitary Inspector.
I am good-looking, speak three languages, and at
learning others. In addition to performing th
duties mentioned in your advert., 1 am willing
without extra remuneration, to act as caretaker o
municipal buildings, and fireman and assist in clean
ing the streets and collecting house refuse. Shoulc
the soil be clayey I will make bricks in my span
time. I attach only one condition to this applies!
tion, viz., that permission be granted me to keef
fowls and a cow, so that I might provide the poor ol
the district with eggs and milk free.
Somehow or other, the council didn’t
appoint him.
# * * *
“8.F.”: Recently the idea occurred to a
Downs (Q.) auctioneer that if he charged
half the ordinary commission for selling
stock, he would get much more stock to sell.
This is how he advertised it:
Patronise the auctioneer who sells your stock for
only half as much as others do.
Now lie’s wondering why it isn’t pulling
business.
* * # *
“Y.Z.”: Is the mushroom dog a new
thing? I met him for the first time this
Easter at a dim retreat on the Gembrook
line (Vic.) where rest and change are re-
tailed at democratic prices. My specimen
was of the sheep-dog type, and as a mush-
room musterer I should say has no living
equal. He carries his own small basket,
and when his utensil is full empties it into
the general repository. Ilis collections per
day are equal to those of three men. Ilis
owner declares him to be worth his weight
in dress suitings, which I will not dispute
while mushrooms are thick as thieves in
near-Gippsland and Is. per lb. in Melbourne.
“U.P.” : There is a table at Adelaide Tour-
ist Bureau which was made from well
seasoned redgum taken from a huge gum tree
that once grew on the property of John
White, at suburban Fulham. It was the
largest tree in the district at the time the
city was surveyed. A few years after that
event the giant fell, and it remained lying
for 80 years, at the end of which it was stil*
hard and in good condition. It was too big
and tough a proposition to tackle with an
axe, but after some weeks’ work with explo-
sives it was blown to pieces. Most of the
old warrior went for firewood, but that
which was used for the table is of a very
close grain, similar to mahogany, and has
taken a fine polish.
* *
“Medical Stunt” : Here’s a chance for an
enterprising Australian. While canvassing
with medical lines I hear babies yelling in
scores of houses. The trouble is generally
indigestion. The rubber teats on the bottles
are far too long, and reaching too far into
the mouth the milk is shot down the
throat without a chance to mix with the
saliva. Nature knows better and provides
the mother with a very short nipple, and the
wise woman never lets the youngster get
much of a holt. Now, where’s the man or
~m offer something like the natural
thing?
* * * *
An estate in the foothills of the Dande-
nong Ranges, recently acquired for soldier
settlement, has an unusual history. Some
years ago the land was bcfught by a Mel-
bourne investor who had done well in an-
other line and wanted to try his hand at
farming. It was not first-class land and
gave poor returns, so the owner imported
several trainloads of rich soil from Warr-
nainbool, 180 miles away, and top-dressed
the pastures therewith, to the edification of
neighboring farmers. Apparently the ex
tensive ingredient was not a success,
because the sale to. the Repatriation people
presently followed.
* * * *
“F.” ; I move to vote that henceforth, and
until the business passes into white-Austra-
lian hands, every crayfish exposed for sale
shall have its price stencilled in plain figures
upon its crimson uniform. Nowadays, the
immoral creature ranges in price from Is. 3d.
upwards, with two or three rates for the one
grade of cray in the same shop. The other
day a faded customer bought one before my
eyes for Is.. 3d., while a richly-caparisoned
dame, choosing one of the same size immedi-
ately afterwards, paid Is. 9d. As for the
gay soul who wants to garner a liie-crayfish
to keep him company on his evening round
of private unbottling-places, after one look
at ms ensemble the shopman will charge him
half-a-crown without turning a hair. This
sort of thing can’t be good for the shopman’s
soul. And the three-price practice is a
rotten one, anyway—especially 7 as I so often
have to pay the top price.
* » * »
“Araminta ’: Australia may. not yet be
able to make a clotlies-peg, but this country
now turns out a beautiful line of “natural”
flannel—all wool, that is. One big Mel-
bourne factory has been making this fabric
in two colors, dark navy and dark grey, and
concerning the blue at least no praise can
be too effusive. I have had no experience
of the grey, but the navy-blue is a top-
notcher for appearance, warmth, wear and
™^^ ess °f dye; and the price is reasonable.
iailor-made” costumes for women are now
being built of this article, and in the hands
of the right clothes-maker the effect is stun-
ning. For children’s clothes, too, the
material is unbeatable. (Loud and con-
tinued cheering.)
* * * .
. : After the fall of Damascus, our.
Lia'h.t Horse regiment was given a spell for
a few weeks in the city itself. Wandering
aiound one day, two of our chaps came across
the equivalent of our Stock Exchange. Two
Aussies, who had fat wads of Turkish pound-
notes collected in deserted Jacko pay-offices,
saw a way to make a few bob. They bought
up all the Turkish pound-notes they could
finance that day at the current prices, viz.,
~s. each, or 10 piastres. Next day they
came back, found Turkish paper had risen
® w ’ ln S to the scarcity, and unloaded all they
held at from lo to 171 p’astres ner pound-
note, thus clearing from 50 to 75 per cent,
on the deal. The same pair found that
Bank of England £5 notes were only worth
£4 Egyptian in Damascus, whilst £lOO notes
were sold at £64 Egyptian. Our financiers
could only afford one of the latter, which
they bought, and subsequently 7 paid into
their nay-bonks at full face value, thus clear-
ing £lB apiece!
AN OLD SALT’S SONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They’re talkin’ by and large to-day
Of these a-erial mails
That's bound to take the trade, they say,
From many a ship that sails;
They’re mad on stable-isin’ gear,
But, take the word from me,
There’ll always be stout ships to steer
Their courses on the sea.
I seen the old windjammers go
Because the steamers come.
“That settles them,” sez men that knew;
But me, my lips were dumb.
And here they’re cornin’ back again,
Tail-sparred and pretty, still,
To carry hard-lipped sailormen
Where white-topped rollers spill.
For me, I like the buckin’ screws
That leaves their wake behind—
The roarin’, pourin’ bows that bruise,
The seas that punch ’em blind.
Aye, fast and far these airyplanes
Can log it in the clouds,
But they must miss the deep-sea rains
And night-winds in the shrouds.
I’ve stood my watch on every tide,
On moonless nights and fair —■
God grant I may not be shanghaied
And signed on in the air 1
For, look ye! every ship’s a soul
That lives upon the sea.
A steamer only asks for coal;
A sailer—“ Wind!” says she.
A man may go aboard her drunk
The night before she clears,
And sleep like Samson in his bunk;
And, in the morn, he hears
Familiar language of the sea,
And know’s that au is well—*
Ilis ship becomes his destiny;
His conscience is her hell.
But these lean hawks that blot the blue
And bolt across the skies—
What can they offer me or you
That’s seen, with sea-tired eyes,
God's wonders workin’ on the deep,
His glories overhead,
A tall ship sailin’ in her sleep
Across a dawn, blood-red ?
In ports that are a breathing place
Between hot weeks of toil,
Men tell us, when wo fall from grace,
Our precious souls we’ll spoil.
They do not understand, who ne'er
Have worked the ships that pass,
Beyond the dim horizon there,
Like pictures in a glass.
Each voyage takes us nearer God
Than ever landsmen reach
Who in a year-round routine plod,
However much they preach.
Aye, brothers, in the wildest night,
When scarce the sidelights shine,
Whose is the aid that sways the fight
If it is not divine?
As for those air-lines in the sky,
Skirootin’ to and fro,
Our Old Man say 3 “They’re too dam’ fly,”
And surely he should know;
For lie’s been sailin’, fore and aft,
Since Moses was a youth.
“Them things has neither guts nor draft,”
He sez; and that's the truth.
So, let ’em talk hot-air to-day
With their a-erial mails —•
They’ll never take no trade, I say,
From any barge that sails.
There'll always be stout ships to steer
On God Almighty’s sea,
And sailormen and good brown beer—
You take it straight from me!
MAORILAND.
WILL LAWSON.


A
'"’T’V
A
m
met
p-
fi
<>-:■■■:. ■»'.
Ironing Day
a Pleasure!”
Seems improbable, you say ; but as soon as
you begin to use a G.E. Electric Iron the
real hardship of ironing day disappears, and
it becomes a pleasure.
® Electric Flat Irons
become hot without heating the
ajr. They save you the usual
steps from stove to ironing-board,
because you iron straight ahead
with the same iron until your work
is done, and, further, the handle
does not get hot, thus eliminating
the nuisance of an iron-holder.
Consider what a convenience
a G.E. Electric Iron will be
to you, then
GET ONE.
They can be purchased direct from
A
m
WENTWORTH AX SYDNEY, O? OF QUEEN & LITTLE COLLINS ST MELBOURNE,.
or any of the following —
NEW SOUTH WALES.
ALB UR Y—W. F. Johnson, Kiewa Street.
BARBARA—Cliftons Ltd.
CANOWlNDRA—Canowindra Electric Light Co.
GOULBURN—E. Gould, Bradley Street.
JUNEE—G. H. Mutch, Broadway.
LISMORE—Grant & Burrow's.
LOCKHART—Henry Davies.
NARRABRl—Narrabri Ice Company.
NEWCASTLE—Engineers & Colliery Supplies Co. Ltd.
TAMWORTH—P. H. Long.
TAREE—George Ikin.
THIRROUL—BuIIi Pass Garage.
URALLA—J. P. Henry.
YOUNG—Power House.
NEW ZEALAND.
AUCKLAND—The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd.
CHRISTCHURCH—The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd.
DUNEDIN—The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd.
WELLINGTON—The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd.
QUEENSLAND.
BRlSBANE—Engineering Supply Co. of Australia (E.S.C.A.) Ltd.,
corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
VICTORIA.
FITZROY —D. & W. Chandler Pty. Ltd., Ironmongers, Brunswick Street
KEW—R. Wagon, High Street.
MELBOURNE—J. & A. Boyes, 241 Elizabeth Street.
MELBOURNE—Brandt Bros. Pty. Ltd., 338 Elizabeth Street.
MELBOURNE—J. E. Carroll, 342 Elizabeth Street.
MELBOURNE—Chambers & Seymour, Flinders Street.
MELBOURNE —John Danks & Sons Pty. Ltd., 391 Bourke Street.
MELBOURNE.—-James McEwan & Co. Pty. Ltd., Elizabeth Street.
MELBOURNE—J. Walker, Ironmonger, Little Collins Street.
PRAHRAN—Maclellan’s Big Store, Chapel Street.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
ADELAIDE—CharIes Atkins & Co. Ltd., 88-90 Currie Street.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
PERTH—Charles Atkins & Co. (W.A.) Ltd., Hay Street.
TASMANIA.
LAUNCESTON—Lindsay Tullock & Co. Ltd.
HOBART —Oliver & Oliver, Macquarie Street.
G.E. ELECTRIC IRONS can also be procured from any Electrical Contractor.
SPECIFY, AND SEE THAT YOU GET,
THE IRON WITH THIS TRADE-MARK


pSP* 8
s
Wool
Men!
Aerial transport may come.
But meantime Rail or Ship
your WOOL to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Sydney OR Brisbane. LTD.
N
For the
Motor Boat
NATIONAL
MOTOR OHS
are the logical lubricant to use. By
their cleanliness, evenness and remark-
able viscosity they keep your engine
at that perfect running pitch that
enables it to produce ample propelling
power in any water.
Obtainable all Garages
and Storekeepers
in 1-gallon Tins, 4-gallon Tins and
Barrels. Ask also for National Motor
Greases.
NATIONAL OIL CO. LTD.,
4 Bridge Street, Sydney.
NJulOtyu
wnofth
ffl
Roils
Porous
rssfcr-*-.
<
$
This is the
Registered
Trade Mark
Of the best
place to get
your
Fishing Tackle,
Guns, Rifles,
Cartridges,
Tennis Goods, etc.
ty&lce
818 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
DRAWS FROM THE BLOOD
THE POISONS
which cause Bad Leg's, Sore Feet, Car-
buncles, Boils,Varicose Ulcers, Bunions,
Eczema, Piles, etc., and those arising from
Insect and Mosquito Bites.
The Proprietors of Grasshopper Ointment
have an absolute confidence in its unsur-
passed merits. They know it to be a safe
and perfect cure for all skin and blood ail-
ments ; and the va=t number of testimonials
received prove it to be. Grasshopper Oint-
ment positivelydraws the poisons which pro-
duce these maladies out of the system As
an aperient, liver medicine and blood purifier,
the Grasshopper Pills are equally effective,
and should be taken in conjunction with the
Ointment. Sold by all Drug Stores and
Chemists throughout the Commonwealth.
Electrical Wiremen
and Contractors.
Ask Your Supply House for
“Expanse” Conduit Fittings
f" Tees f" Elbows
f" Couplings
MALLEABLE GRIP FITTINGS EQUAL TO
THE BEST IMPORTED.
MANUFACTURED BY
THE AUSTRALECTRIC COMPANY,
97 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Telegrams: EXPANSE. SYDNEY. 'Phones: %\%% ( CITY.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
BRAND
HIGH-GRADE ZINC DUST
Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc.
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS:
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited
“Collins House,” 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sydney Agent:
R. N. KIRK, 25 O’Connell Street.
Adelaide Agent:
A. W. LEWIS, 62 Brookman Buildings.
*3®
ritisH
The AI
LIGHT CAR
m
A proved Light Car for the Owner Driver-
s' your enquiry for early delivery of post-war model to—
miiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiTiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
m
I
a
m
gmiuuuinimiiijmnnnn
iiiiiiiiiiiiii'mnTnriiiiiiiiiniiiiniiliiiii'iiiiiiniiii
I. PHIZACKERLEY,
169-171 Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY.
Standard Motor CO*.
» Ltd. Coventry.
SPANISH INFLUENZA.
All medical men recommend a searching antiseptic, and
NAZETHA
fulfils this requirement. Obtainable from all chemists for 1/6, and
one should fail to protect themselves at this time of epidemic.
NAZETHA
The Great Cold Cure in the Little Bottle.
A . P. Miller & Son, chemists, Hobart
Impressed by advances made to bun by .
South-Eastern Province electors, Hagei
thorn, M.L.0., may seek election for that
constituency instead of for his old *
(North-Western), where the Farmers
Union has got busy.
“That a Right to Work Bill be a plank of
the platform” is one of the proposals for the
next Labor Conference. The trouble is
that Bill won’t work, but insists on giving
from CO to 90 million pounds worth or
employment annually to outsiders to enrich
the importing capitalists.
A branch of the Vic. Labor party has re-
ported in favor of votes for minors. lhe
same idea was mooted some years ago by the
late E. Roberts, M.H.R., of S. Aus., who,
speaking on the subject, said : “Why, I knew
as much at 19 as I do now.” “Of course, you
did,” replied C. C. Kingston. ‘Lou knew
as much at two.”
“15”: Paris has seen a quite unusual play
—the life of Pasteur, written by Ins son-in-
law. Lucien Guitry—most notable of living
French actors —was in the principal role.
Dramatic capital is made out of Paste lr s
studies, discoveries and cures, and in the last
act the o.d man, who had to figbt to win
acceptance of his theories, comes in, loaded
with honors, on the arm of President Carnot.
Playing both ends against the middle, that
horny-handed son of the soil, sheepman
Edmund Jowett, M.H.R., has bought him-
self a political parachute with a subscrip-
tion to the Vic. Farmers’ Union. Accord-
ing to the rules of the V.F.U., the candidate
for membership must be a farmer, though he
may be anything else he pleases. Now,
should anything uncomfortable happen to
the Nationalists, Jowett will only have to
leap boldly overboard.
From across the Pacific: —
Woodrow Wilson’s unofficial understudy, Colonel
E. M. House, is a Texas real-estate expert, who made
his way at Houston, .the town that figures in O.
Henry’s biography. The Colonel’s promotion from a
real-estate counter to a latch-key at the White House
is due to perspicuous admiration on the one side and
flattered patronage on the other. House was one of
the first to notice Wilson’s outstanding integrity and
high aims, and, as one of his State’s delegates to
the Democratic Convention, picked out New Jersey’s
darling as one of the few archangels allowed loose
on the globe. When Wilson succeeded, House’s pre-
vision had, of course, to be suitably rewarded, so he
became an envoy who attained his ends by an ami-
ability which his opponents took for the veneer of a
subtle nature.
“Lou” : Consider the reach of the I.W.W.
prior to its suppression here and there. It
was active in Japan, China, Singapore,
throughout Europe and in North and South
America, Australia, Maoriland and South
Africa. It printed two papers in English—
Direct Action (Sydney) and Solidarity
(Chicago). In U.S.A. it printed and
despatched its message weekly and bi-
weekly in Hungarian (A Bermunkas) ; in
Swedish, Norwegian and Danish (Allarm) ;
in Polish (Solidarnose) ; in Flemish (Glet
Light) ; in Italian (II Proletario) ; in
Spanish (El Rebelde) ; in Russian (llabo-
chaza Reecii) ; in Portuguese (A Luz) ;
and it produces The Industrial Worker
at Seattle now that Solidarity (Chicago)
has been put out of action. In Australia the
I.W.W. ran about 10 branches or “locals,”
with a membership of 4000.
“D.”: A doctor writing in the current
Medical Journal claims that the masks in
use in Sydney are “practically useless.”
“For efficiency,” he says, “the infector should
wear of finer butter muslin 8 or 10, of coarser
10 or 12, or of cheese-cloth muslin 0 layers.”
No one could do this for any length of time.
The golden mean might be gained by a mask
of the required thickness worn over the
mouth alone. At present, people who don’t
approve of masking or who find the things
inconvenient wear them on their lips and
breathe through the nose. Nearly every-
body gets into trams and trains without the
mask and adjusts it later. I saw a citizen
remove his on a tram the other day—to
sneeze ! A six-to-10-layer mouth-mask would
at least limit the commonest method of infec-
tion. It would have a better chance of
being conscientiously worn. And if the regu-
lation continued long enough, it might train
a number of people to become nose-breathers.
“303” : One often sees the photograph of
some estimable-looking citizen collaborating
in the advt. of “Blither’s Famous Blood and
Boil Mixture,” or some similar nostrum.
The subject gives harrowing details of an
ulcer which broke out, say, on his shin or
just below the knee. All efforts failed to
shift it. Then the patient was inspired to
try Blither’s Mixture. The sore went like
magic. If it had been a simple ulcer there
would have been no need of medicine —the
trouble would have vanished presently of its
own accord. If it had been a varicose ulcer
of the leg, no medicine in the world would
have cured it. But there is one sore that
is amenable to potassium iodine, which is
the chief ingredient of most blood mixtures.
It is the sore that arises from syphilis.
Thus the unsuspecting person who helps to
advertise the merits of Blither’s article at
the same time suggests to the world the
strong possibility that he is the still-un-
healed victim of one of the most dreadful
scourges which beset humanity.
“The Oldest Inhabitant’s” send-off:—
George Collins Levey, whom The Bulletin reports
dead at last in England, was one of three brothers,
George, William and Oliver. Oliver was a printers’
broker in Melbourne; William was editor and pro-
prietor of Bell s Life in Victoria, and was con-
nected with racing clubs as a paid official. He
was the swell of the three, and an amateur actor
of note: one of the founders of the Histrionic So-
ciety, which produced “Money’* (with Levey as
Evelyn) and many other pieces. George came to
Australia when he was about 20, and after varied
experiences returned to Britain in 1858, and did
some travelling on the Continent. He came back
to Melbourne in 1860 and was soon sub-editor of
the Herald, then a morning paper. He first en-
tered Parliament in 1861, as member for Nofmanby,
no less a personage than Edward Henty.
He sat until 1868, when, to his horror, he was
defeated by Tom Cope, “a nobody.” Getting hold
of the Herald he brought the price down to one
penny. After that he became a stipendiary official
at many Exhibitions. In 1863 he married a daugh-
ter of Surveyor-General Ligar, and on a second ven-
tuie the widow of a member of Congress from the
City of New Orleans.


&c
1 .
!"• ii.„| , ...
1i ,,. ‘ "i mi ii,,, <
~ " '.Hill
Ullll j 1 " "'".I
"-I C„ ,
n.',';,;'; .'7,7,' 1 /,
The best time to paint is NOW—before
the Winter rains commence, and while
the mild weather permits of even drying.
DISTRIBUTORS:
Brisbane ;
Jas. Campbell & Sons, Ltd,
MELBOURNE:
H.J. Corder Pty.,Ltd.
John Danks & Son,Pty.,Ltd.
ADELAIDE:
W. & T. Rhodes Ltd.
PERTH:
McLean Bros. & Rigg Ltd,
HOBART:
T.J. Cane & Co., Ltd.
NEW ZEALAND:
AUCKLAND:
Phillipps & Impey Ltd.
WELLINGTON:
Robert Martin Ltd.
Property thus protected is prepared
for resistance to the scorching rays of
the Sun during the Summer season.
The best paint to use is BERGER’S—
guaranteed to wear well “everywhere
under the Sun” and to spread further,
look better and wear longer than any
other paint. Ask for colour cards.
Made at Rhodes, N.S.W. by
LEWIS BERGER & SONS
(Aust.), LTD.,
16-18 Young Street, Sydney.
Ill'll
jimmil min,
I' 1 !
A
a
&


. .
jfyos& ofjuxite
“Unalloyed” Dyes
The dyes used in Hose
of Luxite uk * ur.all:ycv - -not"
loaded with heavy f *t«tUic com-
pounds to give tic how 1 , a glossy 0
heavy appearance.
The soft, full-bodied shimmer of
Hose ®f Luxite is gained hy the
use of rich fine-stitched materials,
pure-dyed.
That is why its elegance and
beauty last through repeated wash-
ings.
The wide range of styles and
prices will suit every purse and
purpose.
Don’t accept substitutes, and
liink you have .“Luxite””
Insist’upon the genuine.
If your dealer is unable to
upply you, write us.
Walter Cathro Pty. Ltd.,
York Street : : Sydney
BULLDOG
THE SELF VULCANIZING
V PATCH
REPAIR
WILL
'ANY SIZE
BLOWOUT OR TORN Pli-ACE' 1
OBTAINABLE AT ALL GARAGES
PRODUCED ENTIRELY
IN AUSTRALIA.
INDISPENSABLE
To the Traveller, Housewife and School
Children—TO MARK ALL LINEN.
Ensures Individuality, and protects
against loss or exehagige. Any Name
is woven into a Fiae Cambric Tape
in Fast Color. Easily sewn on.
12 doz. 7/6 ; 6 doz. 5/- j 3 doz, 3/6.
Obtainable from all Best Drapers.
Made in Australia by
J. &, J. Cash Pty., Ltd.,
85 Cubitt St., Richmond, Melbourne.
Write for IS title Book.
Celfee essence
fW hike it
4/
forFJdmrtSfcm
<0
Maxi Belting
Ensures Maximum Service
Time lost through stoppage or slowing down of
machinery soon makes a hole in your profits. Guard
against such leaks by using
H&rdie’s MAXI
Selected Leather Belting
for the transmission of power.
Wherever Leather Belting is desired Maxi Belting
will give the utmost service. Maxi Belting is made
in our own Belting Factory, from carefully-selected
Hides, tanned by special process by which the great
natural strength of the hide is retained.
For high-speed work Maxi Belting has been found
most successful and its unusual strength makes it
suitable for all drives.
Write us to-day for further particulars.
James Hardie & Co. Ltd.
“ASBESTOS HOUSE,”
Cr. Wynyard & York Streets, SYDNEY.
'phone 8456 (4 lines).
581-=3 Little Collins St., Melbourne. 30 Currie St., Adelaide.
BOSTOCK’S—the Sign of a Good Shine
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
The present being times for the practise of economy, no better preservative of
leather can be recommended than
Bostock’s Shoe Dressings.
This well-known Shoe Polish possesses all the qualities for enhancing the wear of
footwear, keeping the leather soft, pliable and brilliant. Shoes regularly cleaned
with Bostoek’s give added service.
Colots: Black, Brown, Dark Brown, Ox Blood and White. In Bottles and Tubes.
80 LD EVERYWHERE.
Bostock’s Violo Polishes, Ltd., Sydney
All
Chemists,
two sizes.
SOLDIERS, SAILORS,
AIRMEN, NURSES,
TRAVEL IN COMFORT.
. The only proved Remedy for
f SEA and TRAIN SICKNESS
is
MOTHERSILL’S
SEASICK REMEDY.
MOTHERSILL REMEDY CO. Ltd.,
C.ll Corner Clarence and Market Streets, Sydney.
GUARANTEED TO PREVENT AND CURE
OR MONEY REFUNDED.
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
nun
imuii
iff i
Ml
mil
i-'l
bli
m
am
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF from 12/6 per day, or
may be secured separately by the day fiom■ /
and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all laiticu
lars posted on application to I J} .
“Almanac”: The suit lam wearing
is of Victorian tweed, and, according to
the tailor’s invoice, cost 14s. per yard in
Elinders-lane. For the same material and
pattern the Defence Department pays Ts. bd.
per yard for the purpose of making suits for
returned soldiers. Do the mills sell to the
I).D. at a loss, or is the difference ordinary
trade profit?
A whiff from old stills:
T. S. Carter, of the Old Commodore Inn, North
Shore, Sydney, died recently. Seventy years ago
one of the Blue family built a pub on the
road leading out to the North, and named it “The
Old Commodore,” after his ancestor, Billy Blue,
who had an 80-acre grant there, and who got the
nickname of “The Commodore” from Governor Mac-
quarie, by reason of having been appointed as a sort
of coastguardsman to look out for smugglers of
illicit spirits, distilled in the gullies on the North
Shore. The old house still stands.
“I Say”: The raising by a N. S. Wales
trawler of quantities of sponges of commer-
cial value recalls that some 40 years
ago Dr. Von Lendenfeld investigated
the sponges in Australasian waters and
reported that there were great treasures
hidden. He reckoned that all the sponges
of the Mediterranean are hardly as numer-
ous as those of Port Jackson alone. _ As he
put it, "the number of individuals is great,
and the diversity of form is still greater; in
this, without comparison, Australasian
waters are richer than those of any' other
part of the world.” But what’s the use of
worrying? Let Japan do it!
“Copy Boy” : Toys, even when of purely
local significance, appear to be among the
things that Australians can’t make. When
W. M. Hughes was looming larger in our
public eye than Charles Chaplin, David Low
was commissioned to make a model of the
great man’s head to be affixed to a finger-
stall and sold as a comic toy—the Billywog.
The model was executed, but as the affair
could not be manufactured as cheaply here as
by Asiatic labor, an order for 1000 doz. was
sent to Japan. That was months ago, and
(he order has not yet been completed.
Meanwhile Hughes has shrunk and shriv-
elled, and the chances are that the imported
article when it arrives will be offered to a
oublic that isn’t greatly interested.
Recent horrors in the fried-fish and oyster
business have moved Dr. Robertson, chair-
man of the Vic. Board of Health, to suggest
a plan for the control of insanitary Floun-
deropoulos. Robertson’s idea is to have
every restaurant registered and licenses sub-
ject to annual renewal. The Health Depart-
ment employs only two food-inspectors for
the whole metropolitan area ; but the muni-
cipal councils are supposed to attend to the
supervision of the dirt in their own food, the
Board’s duty being to keep an eye on
Bumble and see that he carries out his
scavenging job properly. Dr. Robertson’s
proposal for registering hash plants and
oyster palaces indicates plainly enough that
Bumble has been loafing on his job. And if
Bumble, sitting on the bench, has the licens-
ing to do, he will probably also loaf there.
To make the scheme effective, the Board of
Health should be given the new responsi-
bility.
“Still a Wowser”: “William Wardroom”
is right in stating (B. 10/4/T9) that calo-
mel ointment, properly used, is practically
infallible as a prophylactic against syphilis;
but he is a little too pessimistic re gonor-
rhoea. In Egypt the establishment of ablu-
tion tents and the enforcement of treatment
as soon as possible after exposure (after
eight hours the success of the treatment
diminishes) proved to be as brilliantly suc-
cessful in the prevention of gonorrhoea as
calomel ointment and argyrol jelly was in
preventing syphilis. With such a sure pre-
ventive, why urge the State registration of an
unnatural vice?
“P.L.”: A point entirely overlooked by
“Wowser” (B. 24./4/’l9) and other op-
ponents of the registration of prostitutes is
that the measure is necessary for their own
protection. “Wowser” may run for his
life whenever he sees a frail fairy on the
warpath, but that does not free him from
the possibility of infection. Every sufferer
carries contagion around with him. He
takes it to lunch at the restaurant, and
any man, woman or child can contract the
disease even by using the same glass or
cup after him. The innocent victim who
never patronised a lady in his life has as
much right to demand the registration of
prostitutes, as a safeguard against her de-
structive powers, as the world has to insist
on the dismantling of the German military
machine to limit that menace. The inno-
cent victims are estimated to be about 30
per cent, of the total number of sufferers,
but in military camps the percentage is
much higher. Two men in my tent at
Liverpool contracted syphilis and infected
five others by contact before they reported
sick. Of course, people don’t generally
live 12 in a 12ft. x 10ft. space as we did
in camp, but they get pretty cramped at
times.
The islands of Boigu and Saibai, in
Torres Strait, are only a mile or two
from the Papuan coast, and the inhabi-
tants are Papuan. Yet the islands are in
Queensland waters, with the result that
w r hen the niggers of Boigu and Saibai want
to get (say) nipa-palm for house-building
from the Papuan coast, three miles distant,
they have to go 70 miles to Thursday Island,
secure a foreign-going clearance, and then
sail 120 miles across the Strait to the
Papuan port-of-entry of Daru. From there
they have to sail 40 miles along the New'
Guinea shore to arrive at the nipa-palms
opposite their own villages. To get back,
the weary miles have to be gone all over
again. Some years ago there was an
arrangement between the Queensland and
Papuan Governments that dispensed with a
lot of this roundabout way of going three
miles, but the niggers abused it and started
smuggling, and the Resident Magistrate had
to proliibit the Islanders from entering
Papua at all. _ This boundary foolishness
sets up the injustice of preventing the
Islanders, wffio are really Papuans, from
entering their own country. A solution of
the difficulty wmuld be to include the islands
in Papuan waters.


■
w
mm
wmmmm
w
W
r mw
7 .-//>
,V//A
11
r %
7, ,
mJi
E X P/q/NS 10/N
Sfl LE
NOW ON
Our Expansion Sale is in full swing. Every day a crowd of music-lovers
may be met in our George Street Showroom taking advantage of the 33i
and 50 per cent, discounts ruling on all stock, except Pianos and-
Proprietary Gramophone Records. This exceptional chance is only
possible in the face of our decision to concentrate wholly on the production
of Pianos and Player Pianos. The Stocks are all new — reductions
sweeping. This is your chance to save 6 ; 8 on every worth of sheet
music you buy, or if you want a Kalophone, many of them are being
sold at 10/- in the pound.
Orders by post or ’phone promptly attended to.
PER CENT.
SKowrooms: 333 George St,
Sydney.
<3CLIG
&
C 9
Factory"- 4J?47 Trafalgar St.
Annaadale
Branches at Bathurst. Orange. Lismore. Newcastle. Ceulburn. Wagga. VICTORIA- Maples, in all Melbourne suburbs. TASMANIA : Williams Bros Hobart .
Maples, Launceston SOUTH AUSTRALIA John Evanp Ltd . Adelaide. QUEENSLAND: 90-92 Que#n StrqeJ. ; Kent Street Maryborough t
FUnders Street, Townsville : Rockhampton; Sydney Stieet. Mackay; Cairns- WESTERN AUSTRALIA: ThomsonsLtd . at Penh, Kalgoorlie and Freemantle
60


Mrs. Catchlove Tells
How Cuticura Healed
Rash On Little Girl
“My little girl at the age of eighteen
months had a severe cold for some
time and a nasty, pimply
rash came out on her
chest and back, through
constant rubbing. She
jcould only sleep when
tired out and would wake
at intervals rubbing her
body and crying, but it only became
more red and little hard pimples ap-
peared scattered over her chest and
back. This went on for about a week.
“I sentfOr a sample of Cuticura Soap
and Ointment and used as directed.
She seemed relieved almost at once so
I procured some more which quickly
afforded relief and healed her. (Signed)
Mrs. E. H. Catchlove, 3 Mary Street,
Unley, S. A., March 16, 1917.
Cuticura is ideal for every-day toilet
purposes. The Soap to cleanse, pu-
rify ' and beautify, the Ointment to
soften, soothe and heal.
Soap to cleanse and Ointment to heal.
“R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
Sold by dealers throughout the world.
Brandt’s Instantaneous
Bath Water Heater
w-
’ortYArea *
To Keep Out
the Influenza.
Put a little Disin-
fectant into the
water; it will
guard you against
an attack of the
“ ’FLU.”
“Chips”
Bath
Heater
(as illus-
trated),
PRICE
55/-
We manufacture all kinds of Fumigating
Lamps, Steam Sprayers, Inhalers, etc.
Sales Dept City 7424.
Carbide Dept Lit/ 02j9.
Brandt Bros. Ltd.
Lamp Manufacturers,
236 Pitt Street, Sydney; and
338 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
ELEY
CARTRIDGES
Always Reliable
I
©
ELEY .410 “Fourten”
Loaded with ELEY Sm®keless Powder
ELEY.22 Long Rifle
“E" Brand
Eley .22 Rim
Black or Smokeless
ELEY Single Rise
Expert Trap
ELEY Targets
for Trap
Shooting
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
ELEYBROS.L-LONDON
THE. TOUCH TELLS
Glide smoothly, never grate.
Artists, Draughtsmen, Engineers.
Architects, Drawing Students, Busi-
ness Men —these are .just a few of the
classes who buy VENUS Pencils regu-
larly.
PBfSa
are not a luxury, they are a
necessity for the best work.
2
s r
Made in 17 degrees, GB to
9H, and 3 styles of Copying.
OF ALL STATIONERS AND ARTISTS’-
MATERIAL DEALERS THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND.
!«? '
r,v.
ft
a
o >
s^2l\S^L
us
«•*>
*s=-
KUs|^
&
a
K/
K<Cu*t<w.
Just Like New!
Dirty, gloomy, dust-catching furniture can
easily be restored to its original beauty and charm
with Johnson’s Prepared Wax. Has your mahog-
any furniture a bluish, cloudy appearance? An
application of
will quickly and permanently remove it —at the
same time imparting a hard, glasslike surface of
great beauty and durability. It protects the varnish
—adding years to its life and beauty; covers up
mars and small surface scratches. It cleans and
polishes in one operation.
Johnson’s Prepared Wax contains no oil
never gets soft or sticky in warm weather, conse-
quently does not gather dust or show finger prints.
Use it on your piano, gramophone, furniture,
floors and woodwork, linoleum and leather goods.
Use It On the Motor Car
When used on the motor car it preserves the finish
and protects it from the weather —prevents checking —
sheds water and dust and makes a wash last twice
as long.
Insist on Johnson*s Products
from your dealer
S. C. JOHNSON & SON, Manufacturers
379 Rent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
.»
s=n
<*wnan» ip«
c>»r«»»x«
cWg^gggS
“The Oldest Inhabitant” : The present is
not the most deadly influenza epidemic which
has visited Australia. In October and
November, 1838, fatality amongst Sydney
hospital cases was 14.3 per cent.
“Croson”: Add to the list of churches
come to other uses (B. 3/4/’l9) one in Lons-
dale-street (Melb.), formerly a Methodist
sanctuary, now part of a tinsmithery. 4he
original staircase leading to the choir-gallery
is still in use.
Died a few days ago Mrs. Thomas Fer-
guson. who arrived in Westralia in the ship
Lotus about 12 months after the foundation
of the Swan River Settlement in ISdO, and
had lived there ever since. She must have
been very nearly the Oldest Inhabitant.
.“Double O.” : Diggers didn’t waste much
that was issued to them when business was
lively in France. One company of infantry
had a big stock of whale oil, recommended as
a preventive of trench feet. The boys didn’t
find it much good when Jack Frost attacked,
but a couple of bright chaps used it for clean-
ing their tin hats. The O.C. wanted to
know why their headgear looked better than
the other Diggers’, and next morning the
order was given, “All helmets must be
cleaned with whale oil.” After that the
non-official name of the company was the
Whale Oil Guards.
Darwin, which is run on Soviet lines
these days, is a cosmopolitan place. The
barmen of mixed parentage have long since
been called out of the Government hotels,
but at one place the Irish manager struggled
along for a while, with the Spanish yardman
and Spanish pantryman to serve drinks.
At length one Spaniard was sacked for re-
fusal to obey orders, and at this crisis the
union called out the two Greek cooks.
After that the boarders took their meals at
a Chinese restaurant. If a respectable
Patagonian would start a first-class board-
ing-house lie might do well at Darwin.
“Tops”: When Hughes the other day told
the Nippon Peace delegates that the inclu-
sion of Japan in the League of Nations had,
in effect, conceded racial equality, he might
have added that his own creation, the Com-
monwealth Wool Pool, had done even more.
Prior to the Government acquisition scheme
there were a number of Jap wool students
learning the game in Australia and earning
about £4 a week. They, too, were taken
under the Government wing, and £750 per
annum wouldn’t be overstating their present
average salary. As to their efficiency—-
well, I won't rob P.M.G. Webster of a pos-
sible subject for a further ode.
John Galsworthy, novelist and social
reformer, has been comparing the average
Digger with the average Englishman. “It
made one almost despair of industrialised
England to see the great Australians pass
in the streets,” he says. He took 1650
passers by, women and men, and found that
“only 310 had any pretensions to not being
very plain or definitely ugly—not 1 in 5.
And out of that 310 only 11 had what might
be called real beauty. Out of 120 British
soldiers observed around Charing Cross, 60,
just one-half, passed the same standard.
But out of 72 Australian soldiers 54, or
three-quarters, passed it, and several had
real beauty.”
/ A.J.A.” : In no State in Australia except
v ictoria is it an offence to carry a revolver
without permission. In Vic., as a rule, only
old lags are arrested; and even then the
charge is usually a subterfuge—laid so that
a man may be held while the ’tecs are busy
on something else. To go armed there per-
mission must be obtained from the “muni-
cipal authorities”; only those who are “in
pursuit of a felon” may carry a gun in a
public place without permission, which is not
easy for an ordinary individual to obtain. To
carry a revolver “without lawful excuse”
should be made a punishable offence every-
where ; or, better still, license every revolver,
the same as we do a motor-car.
“Grouch” : Re the reflection conveyed, in-
cidentally, on the administration of the
Defence Department in N. S. Wales (B.
17/4/’l9). Colonel Mackenzie is, no doubt, a
gallant and capable officer, but as he left Aus-
tralia in 1915 as a lieut.-colonel in command of
a battalion, and as his legal experience has
been confined to the duties of a judge’s
associate, the facts whistle their own
requiem so far as that gentleman’s special
qualifications for a military-judicial position
are concerned. Colonel Wallace Brown has
no civil occupation, as alleged. He is a
permanent soldier of many years’ standing,
and fought in the Boer War. His duties as
A.A.G. at Victoria Barracks (Sydney) in-
volve no expression of legal opinion, as all
questions of military and civil law, so far
as it affects the department, are considered
and determined bv Major Bowie Wilson, who
is a barrister-at-law.
“Fax’: Easter brought another cruel test
of the prophetic powers of the meteorologist
who advises Melbourne holidaymakers about
weather conditions. On the Thursday
before Good Friday he said “a change to un-
settled weather and rain may be expected
during the week-end.” The weather kept
on improving.. Still hopeful, on Saturday he
said “the rain will probably reach us by
Sunday morning.” The rain didn’t come.
On Sunday night the official forecast was:
“Cool change, with some showers advancing
over the State during Monday.” Tem-
perature continued to rise. On Monday
night the official forecast was: “Cloudy and
sultry. Rain, and some thunder setting in
and extending over the State during the next
c UlS ' , Fhe ra^n originally promised
for the week-end had now held off for 48
hours and the prophet gave it another
4S hours grace. Finally, in despair,
he ceased to. promise any change what-
evei. Meantime the would-be excursion-
ists who pay heed to the prophets had
abandoned their Easter plans. It was about
the finest and warmest Easter, up to the
S U ’f ay , after Good Friday, that Victoria
had evei known, yet the meteorologist had
warned the public to distrust the weatE
u ? A 1 ? 6 * N ° wonder Miss Russell,
whose father was present Meteorologist
2 S r r A pr f e | )t ? I '’ assured her long-ago
filend that she hadn’t as much faith in pa’s
foi coasts as in ma’s corns.


DR. SHELDON’S GIN PILLS
Banish Backache and Kidney Troubles.
TRY THEM FOR YOURSELF.
I
Every woman ought to know her own value, and how much her health, happiness and general fitness for work or enjoyment matter to those about
her. Mothers are the frame upon which the work of the world is built up, yet how can a woman prove a cheery, helpful wife, a wise, kind mother,
or a sympathetic companion, if she is out of health, over-weary or dispirited? Headaches, backaches, depressed nerves, sleeplessness and kindred
troubles invade and break Up move homes than any human foe. You drag through your work too tired to enjoy life, and even too tired to sleep when
night comes.
It is not the outside things, such as money or success, that mate life happy, but good health and abundant spirits. You may have drifted so far
down that you think you will never be strong again. But good, sound health is for ail. With healthy kidneys once more acting freely, these dis-
tressing symptoms you have endured so long will vanish. Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills are now doing for others what they can as easily do for you —
make life worth while. Turn over a new leaf for health, and start with Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills to-day. , j
k m
GIN PILLS
Will Help You.
If you suffer with pains in your back or sides,
or have any signs of Kidney Trouble or Rheu-
matism, such as puffy swellings under the eyes
or in the feet or ankles; if you are Nervous, Tired
and Run-down, or bothered with Urinary Dis-
orders, Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills for Backache and
Kidney Trouble are the Remedy which will quickly
remove you of your misery.
r
Mrs. J. S. WOODSIDE (from a photo by Kenelm Stump).
WOMEN! Follow Mrs - Woodside’s
advice and take a Gin Pill Now & Then
Many times when I have read what other women think of your Gin
Pills I thought of writing to tell you my opinion of them, which is
that there is nothing in the world like them for women. I have been
a constant User of them for many years, and consider that my present
fine health and strength are due to their beneficial effects. They clear
the head and the kidneys, and are invaluable for the many ills women
are prone to suffer. I send you my photograph and give you full per-
mission _to make public what I say about Gin Pills. My advice to all
wortieii is to take a Gin Pill now and then—there is nothing so good;
they prove all ft Woman can look for. This sounds a big thing to say,
but it’s irue. I remain,
“CraigielCe,”
Yoiirs faithfully,
<Bgd.) JESSIE S. WOODSIDE.
Craigend Street. Cafliftghurst.
SHtLDOfis
Dost ITO S put
SHtLyOnDRUCCT
, m '-rontr w.i.w
Mrs. ATIIOLWOOD (from a photo by Kenelm Stump).
THOSE WHO HAVE USED GIN PILLS
KNOW THEIR VALUE .
Mrs. Atholwood, a former operatic star and now a teacher of voice
culture, speaks in praise of Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills.
For many years I have suffered from the kidneys, at one time being
laid up for five months, and twice cupped. Frequently 1 have been
unable to sleep through pain across the loins. Recently I mentioned
my trouble to a friend, who told me she had gained great relief from
taking Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills in place of Dry Gin. I did not give
much heed at the time, but I was presented with a bottle of Dr. Sheldon’s
Gin Pills, with the request that I would at least try them. I did so, and
after taking three pills the first day, I was delighted to experience an
agreeable sleep. I And by using Gin Pills I gain all the relief given by
gin without the injurious effect of the alcohol, which does not suit
every system, and, as I am no longer a martyr to insomnia, I really must
express my gratitude. Very truly yours, (Sgd.) ETHEL ATHOLIVOOD.
“Arundel,” Anzac Parade, Kensington.
B. MORAN ( from, a photo).
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills
Make Weak Backs Strong.
I feel I must write and tell you how
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills have cured me.
I was a great sufferer with my kid-
neys, and tried a great many tilings.
At last I thought I would try Dr.
Sheldon’s Gin Pills, as my mother
swears by them. After taking one
bottle I felt much improved. I have
since taken six bottles, and I can only
say I am cured, and very grateful
for it. You may use this in the paper
if you w'ish, for I am more than grate-
ful for the result of taking Dr. Shel-
don’s Gin Pills.
Yours truly,
(Sgd.) Mrs. B. MORAN,
Arcadia,
Grosvenor Street,
Woollahra.
The pain I suffered with'my back and
kidneys for over four years was almost
unbearable. I was advised to try Dr.
Sheldon’s Gin Pills, and I am very
grateful to say that, after taking two
boxes, I got absolute relief and they
seemed to suit my system perfectly. My
health has improved out of sight, and
if you only knew how glad I am that
my health has reaped such great benefit
you would understand my writing
stating how grateful I am to Dr. Shel-
don’s Gin Pills for how they have cured
me.
You may use this testimonial if you
wish.
(Sgd.) Mrs. NELL GLENN,
12 Ruthven Street,
Waverley.
Gin Pills as Good for Men as for Women.
Mrs. NELL GLEN (from a photo).
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills are equally as good for men as for women. So, Men! don’t suffer the agonies of Backache, Lumbago, Run-down
Feeling or Kidney Troubles of any kind, but remember, that Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills were specially designed to banish all these ailments, so take a
bottle of these wonderful pills home to-night and try them for yourself. Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills are sold in airtight, sealed glass containers, price 1/6,
or, in larger bottles, holding more than twice the quantity, for 2/6.
for BACKACHE
and Kidney Troubles


A. Saunders’ Returned
Soldier’s Presentation
Medal, 9ct. Gold, 25/-
A. Saunders’ Hunting Lever, extra-quality
movement, £2/10/-. Solid Silver, £3,
£3/10/-. £4/10/-. £5, £6, £7/10/-
Gold-filled Elgin or Waltham, 10-vear case,
£3/5/-; 20-year, £4/10/-; 25-year,
£5/5/-. Extra jewelled, £6/0/-,
tj/io/-, Solid Gold, £lO. Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’ Oct. Gold Albert, £3/15/-
Heavier, £4/5/-, £4/10/-, £5, £5/10/-,
£6/10/-. l. r >ct. Gold, £O/10/-, £7/10/-,
£B/10/-, £lO, £l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Links, daintily engraved,
20/-. 15ct. Gold, 35/-
A. Saunders’ pure
Diamond Boat-
shape Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £5. Larger
Diamonds,
£7/10/-
A. Saunders' pure
Diamond Cluster
Ring, 18ot. Gold,
£B/10/-
-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Bar Brooch, set
Pearls, 20/-
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold,
£B/10/-
A. Saunders’
Lady’s 9ct. Gold
Signet Ring,
12/G. 15ct., 20/-
Gent.’s size, 9ct.,
20/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct.
Gold Ring, set
Ruby, 25/-
15ct. Gold, £2.
A. Blunders’ 9ct. Necklet. SBt
Pearl and Amethyst or Rubie?,
£2.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding
Wristlet Watch, full-jewelled lever movement, com-
pensation balance, £7/10/-. Others, £4,
£4/10/-, £5/10/-, £6/10/-, £B/10/-,
£lO, £l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold plain half-round Bracelet,
strong snap and safety chain, £2 /10/-. Narrower,
25/-, 30/-, 40/-. Wider, £3, £3/10/-,
£4/10/-, £5. 15ct., £3, £3/10/-, £4/10/-,
£5/10/-, £6/10/-, £7/10/-, £B/10/-
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller, 805=815 George Street (Opp. Railway Station), Sydney.
A. Saunders' Pot. Gold -Pearl and Red Stone
Bar Brooch, 12/C.
A. Saunders' pure
Diamond Crossover
Ring', 18ct. Gold,
£5/10/-
Diamonds and
Rubies or Sap-
Phircs, £3/10/-
A. Saunders' pure
Diamond Boat-
shape, Hiuar, 18ct.
Gold, £5/10/-
Diamonds and
Rubies or Sap-
phires, £3/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure Diamond Bar Brooch
15ct. Gold, £2/5/-
A. Saunders’ pure
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold,
£5/10/-
A. Saunders’
Gent.’s 9ct. Gold
Signet Ring, 20/-
T *ady’g size, 9et.,
12/6.
A. Saunders’
Amethyst-set Ring,
Oct. Gold, 20/-
A. Saunders’ Re-
turned Soldier’s Pre-
sentation Medal, 9ct.
Gold, 20/-
A. Saunders’ Gont.’s high-grade Gmi-
metal or Nickel Lever, 2,~ /-, 30/-
Kxtra jewelled, 40/-, 50/-.
Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’ 9et. Gold Curb Albert, £4/10/-
Lighter, £3/15/-, £3/10/-, £3. Heavier,
£5, £5/10/-, £6/10/-, £7/10/-. 15ct.
Hold, £7/10/-. Lighter, £6/10/-,
£5/10/-. Heavier, £B/10/-, £lO,
£l2/10/-, £l5.
. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Links, 20/-
Heavier, 25/-, 30/-
15ct., 40/-, 50/-
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wb Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Tiles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, B u ilde r s’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
6SJ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.YV.
Branches in all parts of the world.
SAVOY HOTEL,
Hay Street, Perth, West Australia.
PERTH’S LEADING HOTEL.
Recommended to Visitors from Eastern States.
Tariffs £4/4/- per week, 12/0 per day.
J. M. QUIGLEY, Manager.
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
No matter what your respiratory organs may
be suffering from—whether Asthma, Hay
Fever, Rose Cold, or ordinary Cough—you
will find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout A ustralasia.
BOOKS! BOOKS! BOOKS! FOR EVERYBODY!
The Book of Nature
A FULL AND EXPLICIT EXPLANATION
OF ALL THAT CAN OR OUGHT TO BE
KNOWN BY
MAN and WOMAN,
INTENDED ESPECIALLY FOR
THE MARRIED, OR THOSE IN-
TENDING TO MARRY.
By L. M. BYRN, M.D.
A PRACTICAL COMPLETE
FAMILY DOCTOR.
No such Complete Panorama of the Mysteries
of Human Reproduction has ever before been
given to the world.
DR. BYRN’S ILLUSTRATED EDITION
(1917 ISSUE) IS THE ONLY GENUINE
BOOK. ASK FOR IT, AND TAKE NO
OTHER. PRICE:
TWO SHILLINGS & SIXPENCE.
POST FREE.
Live and Learn, 2/-. How to Get Rich,
1/6 posted. Dr. Lamartine’s Silent Friend,
1/6. Ned Donnelly’s Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, 1/6. How to
Dance, 1/6 posted. How to Wrestle, 1/6.
Moll Flanders (a rare book by Defoe), 1/3
pasted. Thurston’s Card Tricks, 1/3. All
Zola’s including Nana. 2/- each posted.
Educating the Horse, 1/3. Ventriloquism
Made East, 1/3. Up-to-date Comic Reciter,
1/6 posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/3. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 6/6 posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, 1/3, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(send for list). Joys of Life, 2/-. How
to Make Youb Will, 1/3. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 2/3. Career of Beauty
Darling, 2/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/6. Par-
lor Tricks and Games, 1/6. Fortune-Telling
by Cards, 1/9. Life (a book for Men and Women
of To-day), 2/-. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales,
1/9. Tricks & Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/6.
Beauty’s Secrets, 1/6 post free. Night of Temp-
tation, 2/-. How to Make Love, 1/3 post free.
Fowler’s Science of Life, 12/6. Australian
Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 4/-.
Mahomet’s Fortune-Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price 1/-, posted 1/3.
How to Become Quick at Figures, 1/3. Will
Power (Personal Magnetism), posted 1/-. San-
dow’s Book of Strength posted, 4/-. Car-
lisle’s Freemasonry, 6/3 posted. Daughters
of Ismael, 2/6. History of the Rod Flagella-
tions and the Flagellants (scarce), 15/-.
Practical Gas and Oil Engine Handbook, 5/6.
Motor Mechanics, 3/3. Motor Manual,
(latest), 3/6. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 1/-
and 2/3. Gon and My Neighbor, 9d. How
to Read Faces, 2/-. Adventures of a Sydney
Barmaid, 1/-. Colonial Horse Doctor, 2/-.
French Polishing and Staining, 2/3. Photog-
raphy Self-taught, 1/6. How to Make
Sweets, Jams and Syrups, l/'2. New Tricks
with Coins, 1/3 posted. House Painting and
Papering, 2/3. Prop. Fowler’s Human Science,
12/6. Australian Pastrycooks’ Guide, 1/6
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/6 posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/6. How ir> r E ad Faces
and Heads, 2/-. Soldering, Brazing etc
2/3 posted. How to Play Billiards, illustrated!
1/9. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; 1/3 posted.
Camille, 1/6 posted. Piano Tuning and Repair-
ing, 2/3. Modern Etiquette, 1/3. Hoyle’s
Card Games (ltuies for all Games), 1/6. How
to Mesmerise, 2/-. Man from Snowy River,
4/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/3 posted. Parlor
Magic, 1/3 posted. The White Slave Traffic,
1/3. Every Man His Own Carpenter, 1/6.
Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator,
1/1. Secret History of the Court of Eng-
land, 2/-. Letter-Writer Up-to-date, 1/6
posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, 1/6 posted. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-; 1/2
posted. Electricity Made Simple (new), 6/-.
The Confectioner’s Hlndbook, 1/6. Sexual
Knowledge for Everybody (with plates), 6/6
posted. How to Shine in Society, 1/6.
Cabinetmakers’ llandybook, 2/-. Complete
Bookkeeping, 2/6. Life of Deeming, illus-
trated, 1/1. How McDougall Topped the
Score, and Other Verses, 1/3. French
Self Taught, 1/3. Wannan’s Engine-
. driver’s Guide. 6/- posted. Decameron of Boc-
caccio, 4/6 each, posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 2/- posted. Women’s Secrets, 1/-
posted. Gay Life in Melbourne, 1/- posted.
Secrets of Beauty, Health and Long Life
(50,000 sold), 2/- posted. A Bed of Roses, 4/6.
All These Prices Post Paid.
Established 30 Years.
DON'T BE FOOLED
INTO PA YING MORE.
New Tricks with Cards, 1/6. Sappho, genu-
ine, 1/S. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 posted. Dr.
Milford's Midwife's Handbook, 92 practical
Send stamp for my
BIG ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
SENT ANYWHERE
FOR THE ASKING.
illustrations, 3/-. Aristotle, 5/-. Adam Lind-
say Gordon's Poems, 1/9. Practical Palm-
istry, 2/-. Guide to Auctioneering, 3/6.
Lovers’ Letter-writer, 1/6. All About Incu-
bators, 2/3. Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed,
Key to All Degrees, New Edition, 1/9 posted.
Vest-pocket Dictionary, 1/6 posted. Tokology,
10/6 posted. Ingersoll-'s Works, 1/3, 2/-. H°' v
to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 2/- posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Wife, 3/9 posted. Bread
and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-boilers’ Assist-
ant, 2/-. The Wife’s Handbook, 1/3 posted.
Fruits op Philosophy, 1/- posted. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness
and its Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster’s Large
Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus,
leather bound, my price, 20s. post paid. (Why
pay 3 and 4 guineas?). Bootmaking and Repair-
ing, 2/3. Dynamos and Electric Motors, 2/3.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete
Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 12/6 posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, 1/- posted.
Henry Lawson’s Humorous Verses. 1/3. The
Age of Reason, by Paine, 1/3 posted. Rasputin.
the Monk of Evil 2/9. One Day, 1/3 posted. The
Wizard’s Manual, 1/3. Speeches from the
Dock, 2/-. Life’s Shop Window, 2/-. Three
Weeks, 2/- posted. The Escaped Nun, 2/.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, the big book store, §7 g §9 Market Street, Sydney (only).
I BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEAL.TH.~m


f-
\<r
ABBEY
SHOES!
Select your shoes according to
QUALITY—not Price—that’s the
way to ensure satisfaction —and
it’s always the most economical
in the long run.
We feature a special Golf Shoe in
choice Tan Willow Calf.
Heavy Soles, 42 =
Light Soles, 40/-
Postage extra
Made in half and full sizes, and in
three fittings—narrow, medium and
wide.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
GIBSON’S
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide. '
High-class Residential Hotel.
Tariff: 15/- per day inclusive.
8/= per day Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
Government Notices.
OF AUSTRALIA.
EMPLOYMENT WANTED
for
RETURNED SOLDIERS.
2 A stayers.
2 Builders’ Foremen.
8 Blacksmiths.
2 Blacksmith's Strikers.
2 Boilermakers.
2 Boilermakers’
Laborers.
7 Bootmakers.
2 Bakers.
0 Butchers.
3 Barmen.
3 Billiard Markers.
2 Bookkeepers.
3 Boundary Riders.
2 Canister Makers.
30 Commercial
Travellers.
14 Canvassers.
52 Carters.
7 3 Clerks (General).
3 Clerks (Shipping).
7 Clerks (Tally).
4 Cooks.
7 Cooks (Camp).
6 Cleaners.
14 Caretakers.
160 Drivers (single or
two or more).
2 Deck Hands.
2 Draftsmen (Archi-
tectural).
2 Draftsmen (Mechan-
ical)
6 Dental Mechanics.
5 Dairy Hands.
3 Engineers (Marine).
10 Engineers’ Laborers.
15 Engine-drivers.
6 Engineers.
3 Fishermen.
3 Farm Overseers.
2 Fitters.
2 Fitters’ Laborers.
8 Firemen (Ships’).
5 Firemen (Shore).
16 Farm Hands.
2 Farriers.
4 Grocers.
3 Greengrocers.
2 Hotel Porters.
2 Horse Breakers.
2 Horse Trainers.
4 Iron Machinists.
212 Laborers (General).
185 Laborers CLichtl.
14 Laborers (Wharf).
2 Lift Drivers.
80 Motor Drivers.
3 Overseers (Planta-
tion).
5 Printers (Letter-
press).
3 Plasterers.
2 Pastrycooks.
5 Press Hands.
2 Painters.
6 Riggers.
23 Station Hands.
4 Salesmen (Mercery).
7 Salesmen (General).
2 Sheet Metal Workers.
4 Surveyors’ Assistants.
76 Storemen.
3 Stewards.
18 Stewards (Ships’).
22 Seamen.
2 Stevedores.
30 Storemen (Laborers).
9 Storemen (Packers).
4 Storemen (Wool).
2 Trimmers (Coal).
6 Teamsters.
5 Tailors.
3 Tailors’ Pressers.
2 Timber Ordermen.
2 Veterinary Surgeons.
25 Watchmen.
7 Wool Classers.
2 Wirers.
Employers are asked to write, telegraph or ’phone
the Deputy-Comptroller, Department of Repatriation,
Chalmers Stieet, if they are able to employ any of
the abovementioned. ’Phones: 990 Redfern (eight
lines). Extension No. 6 Employment Section.
Applicants please mention this paper.
A. G. KAKU,
May 2, 1919. Depnty-Comptroller.
Amusements.
•IVOLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH I). McINTOSH PRESENTS
THE FASCINATING MUSICAL I’LAY,
MY LADY FKAYLE.
Prices: 4/-, 8/-, 2/- Sc 1/-, plus tax,
HER MAJESTY'S THEATRE, MKIJIOIiIINE
Direct ion .1. C. \\ 11,1,1 A MS< >\ I .'ID.
EVERY EVENING AT S.
,1. C - . WILLIAMSON I .TO. PRESENT THE
AVIATION MFSICAL PLAY.
GOING Hl*.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual. ,
Th i<: ti; i: it ova i„ MELBOURNE.
Hn.ri m, .1 C. W 11.1,1 A.MS'IN LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, MAY 10.
,j C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present Everybody’s
Favorite,
MURIEL STARR, in
COMMON CLAY.
Plan at Allan’s.
RING’S
Prices as usual.
THEATRE. >1 E L It O C R N E.
Lessees: BAILEY * GRANT
, EXT SATURDAY NIGHT, MAY 10.
J. & N. TAIT Present the ONLY
HARRY LAUDER.
Prices: 10/-, 7/0, 5/-. 3/-, 2/- Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Proprietors—BEN and JOHN 1 I LEER.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
DENIS KEHOE’S IRISH PLAYERS in
MOTHER MACHREE,
Maurice Wehlen’s Comedy Drama in three acts,
with Songs.
Popular Prices. Plan at Pianola.
|y| \.| ksTIC TIIEVTRE. MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
GABY DESLYS in
INFATUATION.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
Plans at Allan's.
HOYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
Also SYDNEY.
)E LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
3 AULINE FREDERICK in LA TOSCA.
BILLIE BURKE in
THE PURSUIT OF PEGGY.
Prices as usual.
LAC I A R I UM, M ELItOU R N E.
ICE-SKATING
SEASON NSW OPEN.
DI GILIO’S BAND.
Amusements.
gf VERY KEEL A REAL ATTRACTION.
METRO FILMS.
SHOWING THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALASIA.
gygELBA THEATRE, MEI.IiOI'KKE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
WOULD, FOX and SELZNICK.
gRITANNIA THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
PRKSENTING THE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 11 n.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. and 6d.
Business Notices.
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell § Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office—
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
f QUEENSLAND.^
THE KEY TO \
PROSPERITY.
QUEENSLAND
opens the door to
prosperity tor those
requiring land
Particulars ol the
millions ol acres oi
Crown Land
now available will be
sent you at once,
also Booklets on the
Stale's resources—
FREE
/Vame
Address
Queensland Government
laUMiteace aod Tourist Bureau
BRISBANE
S.B.
1
m
4?
i
Equip your
Staff with
Waterman's
(Ideal)
Founta|ijtPen
Speed up the Pen Work! Equipped with Watermans
Ideal, your staff will accomplish more, with greater com-
fort. Accounts will be got out to time, correspondence
kept up to date, routine will run more smoothly.
Waterman’s Ideals are made in Three Types: “ Pocket Self- Filling,
“ Safety,” and “ Regular.” Of Stationers and Jewellers everywhere.
L. G. Sloan, Ltd . (Eontcr London , England .
Australia : Harold D. D.xon, 106, Clarence Strer t. Sydney.
A Gentleman's Superb Country Residence .
COWRIE HEAD-STATION PROPERTY,
Darling: Downs, Queensland.
CLOSE to Kingsthorpe Railway Station, and distant twelve miles by road from
Toowoomba.
A superior, commodious bouse, built of stone; twelve-foot verandahs; ten
rooms, stables and numerous other detached offices: garden and orchard; well,
bore and mill, and a four-roomed cottage.
This ideal country home stands on an elevated position surrounded by a rich,
cultivable, black-soil plain.
The land, which comprises the homestead block of the Gowrie Repurchased
Estate, being portion 51. parish of Isaac, containing an area of 260 acres, is
open- for Perpetual Lease Selection under the State land laws; capital value,
£2080; annual rental, £72 10s.: provisional valuation of improvements, £3340.
For further particulars concerning this valuable property apply,
personally or by letter, to the District Land Agent’s Office, Toowoomba, or
to the Land Settlement Inquiry Branch, Department of Public Lands,
Brisbane.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
ProvidentSockty
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Although over £700,000 was paid dur-
ing 191 S in War Claims alone, the
Cash Bonus Distributed for 1918
exceeded..
Yielding lieversionary Additions to
Policies of about
Accumulated Funds e.'ceed .. .!
Annual Income over
£1,000,000
£1,700,000
£ 39,000,000
£ 5,500,000
I l:e Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPEHLY, General Manager.
TN THE MATTER OF THE BRITISH-
AUSTRALIAN OIL COMPANY, LIMITED.
Walter Francis Scott Armstrong-, Janies Daven-
poit and Kenneth Mackenzie Clark, on behalf of
themselves and all other Holders of Debenture Stock
entitled to the Benefit of the Indenture mentioned in
the Endorsement in the Writ,
v.
Ihe Brui.sh-Australian Oil Company, Limited,
General Investors and Trustees, Limited, and
John Macdonald Henderson.
TENDERS ARE INVITED by Messrs. Sly and
Russell as Attorney tor General Investors and
Trustees, Limited, and John Macdonald Henderson,
Trustees for the Debenture Stock Holders of the
British-Australian Oil Company, Limited, for the
purcuase oi toe following' Assets, namely:—
J. The Purchase IN ONE LOT of the whole of
the Freehold Lands, Leaseholds, Rights,
.Machinery and Plant, Tools, Stores, Rolling
Stock and Sundries, Trade Marks, Goodwill,
Business and undertaking of the British-Aus-
tralian Oil Company, Limited, as covered •v
the said Debenture Stock, excluding Live Stock,
Book Debts, Casli and Bank Balances and
Records, but including:—
1-reeholds and Leaseholds and Shale Mine and
Mine Plant, Tools, etc., and Cottages at
Tend, Counties of Buekland and Brisbane.
Leaseholds and Aerial Ropeway connecting the
♦ Temi Mine and the Crude Oil Works at
Murrurundi.
Leaseholds' and Freeholds, aiid Crude Oil Works
at Murrurundi.
Railway Siding at Murrurundi.
Freeholds and Oil Refinery Works at Hamilton,
including Railway Siding.
Oil Tank Waggons.
OR ALTERNATIVELY. The Purchase in SEC-
TIONS of tlie said Assets, that is to say -
Section 1. Freeholds, Leaseholds, Rights, Machinery
and Plant, Tools and Sundries, Business „nd
Undertaking at Temi and Murrurundi, cun-
prising Shale Mine, Aerial Ropeway and com-
plete Crude Oil Works, with two bench* s of
Retorts and Accessories capable of retorting
240 tons of shale per diem; also Crude Naphtha
Plant, Sulphate of Ammonia Plant, Workshops,
Store, Railway Siding, and Water Services as
more fully- described in schedule.
Section 2. Oil Refinery Works, situated on Free-
hold land, comprising four benches of Stills
(one with brickwork damaged by fire), each
acconmanied by charging tanks, re*, eiving tanks,
and all necessary appurtenances, also Paraffin Ex-
traction House and Plant, and Washers and
Refinery necessary for file manufacture of fust-
grade Oil; also Naphtha Refinery complete, and
Tin and Box-making Plant; the necessary
power derived from six boilers complete with
brick smoke stack, 162 ft. high; also Tar and
Acid Plant; also Plumbers’, Tinsmiths’, Fitters’
and Coopers’ Shops, Stock Tanks, Water Ser-
vice, Railway Siding, Loco. Crane, etc. ; also
Brick Office and Laboratory', including materials,
the specific items making up the above, being
more particularly described in schedule. YA'orks
designed .to treat about 4,000,000 gallons of
Crude Oil per annum.
Section 3. Seventeen Oil Tank Waggons of four-
wheel type, each designed to carry 2740 gallons.
OR ALTERNATIVELY. The PURCHASE IN
GROUPS of the said Assets, that is to say:—
Group A. The Assets at or in connection with
Temi Mine, including the Mine; also F’reehold
Land, Mining Leaseholds, Machinery and Plant,
Tools and Stores, Diamond Drill Buildings and
Houses.
Group B. The Aerial Ropeway (subject to re-
moval from the Freeholds), and two Leases in
connection therewith.
Group C. All the Machinery, Plant and Build-
ings, Tools, etc., comprising the Crude Oil
Works at Murrurundi, excepting, however, the
freehold land, dwelling-houses and cottages, and
the Railway Siding, etc., but including pumps
at Page River.
Group D. All the Railway Material and Siding
(subject to removal) ; also Railway Bridge over
Page River, and Pipe-line from Page River to
the Works Reservoir, and thence to the Works.
Group E. Freehold Land at Murrurundi (five
parcels) and houses and cottages thereon; »Lo
Mountain Reservoir Leases, Mountain Reservoir
and Mountain Pipe-line and Tanks.
Group F\ Freehold Land, and other assets at
Hamilton, New South YVales, as more fully
described under Section 2.
Group G. Seventeen Oil Tank Waggons of four-
wheel type to carry 2740 gallons each.
4.
OR ALTERNATIVELY. TENDERS are invited
for EACH PARCEL OR LOT of Land, Machinery
and Plant, Tools and Sundries, as detailed
AND SET OUT IN THE SCHEDULE.
Tlie Vendors reserve the right to elect, whether
Tenders shall be accepted:—
(1) As a whole.
(2) By sections or partly by sections and partly
by groups or lots.
(3) Bv groups or partly by groups and partly by
sections or .lots.
(4) By lots or partly by lots and partly by
sc tions or groups.
TENDERS, under above alternatives, numbered
respectively 1. 2, and 3, are being called for simul-
taneously in England and Australia. But Tenders
under the above alternative number 4 are only called
for in Australia. The Lots are more fully described
in the schedule, which, with Conditions of Sale and
forms of tender, may be had on application to tlie
undersigned, or to: —
Mr. YV. E. BOOTH. Local Receiver and Manager,
The British-Australian Oil Company, Limited,
Equitable Building. 350 George Street, Sydney.
Mr. ,T. NICOL, Crude Oil Works, Murrurundi.
Mr G. LYON, Refinery Works. Hamilton.
Messrs. FELL RANKIN. MORRISON & CO.,
Equitable Building. Melbourne.
Messrs. DAVID FELL & CO., 79 Queen Street,
Brisbane.
Messrs WISE k INGLIS, Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
Messrs'. JOHN F. KEY. REID & CO., 37 Steam-
ship Buildings. Currie Street. Adelaide.
Messrs. RANKIN, MORRISON k CO., Emanuel
Buildings, Perth, AA’.A.
Tenders, endorsed as provided in the conditions,
id addressed to the Receiver or the Local Receiver
ccordin- as the Tender is from outside Australia
within Australia), must be in tlie hands of the
eeeiver or the Local Receiver (as the case may
0 mV later than noon on the 15th Julv, 1919. j
The highest or am tender not necessarily accepted.
Dated at Sydnev -his 26th day of March, 1919.
SLY & RUSSELL,
ttornevs for the General Investors and Trustees,
Limited, and John Macdonald Henderson, Trus-
tees for the Debenture Stock IToldeis of the
British-Australian Oil Company, Limited,


WHY
Write
NOT CONSULT
THE PUBLIC TRUST
E E
(STATE GUARANTEE), WHO ACTS AS
EXECUTOR, TRUSTEE, ADMINISTRATOR, ATTORNEY and ansniT
i Kpert > Effi cient and Economical Management.
or call for full particulars, C'ULWULLA CHAMBERS, 67 CASTLEREAGH STREET SYDNEY
T. W. .GARRETT, Public Trustee. ‘
6^
Y G
boord&son
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
'
&
DI
I Swift & Company Ltd., Australasian
Agents, 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney
Insure with AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY
Head Office: Corner Pitt
& Kins' Streets, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: 50 Queen Street, Melbourne. 113 Eagle Street, "Brisbane’
FIRE & ACCIDENT INSURANCES EFFECTFn
EQUITABLE DEALING.
G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
PROMPT SETTLEMENTS.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
Now is tiis Time to Buy Underwear
—and “Warrigal” is the Best to Buy!
This trade-mark is sewn
into every Peapes
garment made in
Australia.
Harrigal Underwear for men is pure Australian wool, knitted
jn Australia. Its quality, comfort, durability and real economy
nave been fully proven bv Peaces’, who alone sell this famous
brand, registered under their own trade-mark.
Large stocks are now available in all sizes.
MEDIUM WEIGHT. PURE NATURAL WOOL
UNDERSHIRTS—haIf-sleeves.
Peapes & Co Ltd.,
MEN’S Oil I FITTERS,
309 8 311 George Street, SYDNEY.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
ilEii Majesty's “Going Up”
Royal ••Common Olay”
King’s Harry Lauder
Tivoli “My Lady Fmyle”
Princess's “Mother Machree”
liorr’s Dh Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Mei.ua Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Paramount Metro Films
Glaciarium Ice Skating
John Galsworthy's “The Pimm’ - is hardly
likely to get any further presentation in
Melbourne, otherwise its revival at a Taits’
Repertory matinee might be worth liberal
mention. The local Philistines appear to
have got word that “The Pigeon” is a very
crudely-theatrical comedy of types. Effects
are obtained by means of a weird front door
and a large window to an artist’s studio,
which opens on to the street. This in the
very heart of London, by the way. The
author’s philosophy is depressingly pessimis-
tic, and the moral of the play is that un-
practical kindness to the wasters of this
world merely encourages them to attempt
suicide. Gregan McMahon gives a finished
study of the French waster; Greenaway is
an angelic elderly philanthropist, and Miss
Beryl Bryant, as the alleged daughter of joy
who conveniently tries to drown herself,
offers ample apology for the invisible foot-
man whom she got into trouble.
* * * *
“llow He Lied to Her Husband” is a far-
cical satire that cannot be played too often.
Whilst deserving to be taken seriously, it
only asks to be accepted as a joke, and is for
this reason a pleasant corrective to Gals-
worthy’s futile sermon. George Bryant is
as unlike a snobbish stockbroker as man
could be. nor is Olive Wilton the type of
petted, showy matron sketched by Bernard
Shaw. Nevertheless Bryant in particular,
and Miss Wilton in a measure, helped Ray-
mond Lawrence to get all the meaning and
some excellent rough-and-tumble put of the
triangular situation.
At Melbourne Royal the present double
bill, is about to pass away, and “The Mon-
key's Paw” will be more missed than “Three
Faces East.” _ There have been other incredi-
ble dramas in which German spies were
routed by Frank Harvey, but there never
was another playlet which brought, as it
were, a feeling of resurrected corpse across
the orchestra, On Saturday Muriel Starr
and co. will spread themselves in “Common
Clay.”
The last night of Emelie Polini at Mel-
bourne King’s will be followed, on Saturday
by the first appearance of Harry Lauder,
whose company will include Muriel Window
and various other “turns.”
The insistent call for Mr. Street in “Going
Lp” at Melbourne Majesty’s was answered
“My Lady Frayle ” at
Melbourne Tivoli.
Bert Clarke as
William Wilcox.
last week by Harry
Burcher, Arthur
Frith h a v i n jg'
dropped out on
account of sickness.
The change has
brought more rest
to the countenance
of the aviator-hero,
but has not other-
wise affected the
vitality of th e
character. The per-
formance has, how-
ever, improved in
bulk-value through
the arrival of
Madge Elliott and
Cyril Ritchards,
who were missing
from the cast on
the first night.
Madge is especially
charming.
* * *
“M other Ma-
chree” has moved
up from the com-
paratively remote
I layhouse to the more popular Prin-
cess’s, where a bigger section of Mel-
bourne can be seated at the same cheap
prices. “Mother Machree” has the artless
atmosphere of the best Doone plays, without
any of the Doone distribution of “fat” that
lowered most of Allen’s company to the level
of supers. Denis Ivehoe, the head man of
“Mother Machree,” shares the limelight with
bis company, and never flourishes his person-
ality in singing a song. Perhaps he would
be better if he were a little more obtrusive —
especially _in the sort of show where self-
assertion is considered one of the symptoms
of a god-like character.
When Hugh Mclntosh hired the Devil to
restore Lady Frayle’s lost youth at Mel-
bourne Tivoli, he hardly realised that the
job was too small to. keep a first-class
Mephisto fully engaged. Mclntosh would
therefore like to hear from any person who
could provide a little overtime for a spruce,
gentlemanly Satan with sufficient discretion
to hide his tail in public. His Majesty is
parLc-ulany valuable for fashionable cafes
and week-end parties, and holds the highest
references for previous good results in this
line.
Pauline Frederick is the chief inducement
to visit Hoyt’s De Luxe Theatre, Melbourne,
this week. Pauline, wrapped in the im-
placable virtue of Tosca, is knifing an im-
pressive screen-Scarpia in a thrilling
manner. Next in point of merit is William
Farnum in “True Blue,” whilst at the
Lyceun"i the camera is held up to the volatile
Billie Burke in a six-reel caper called “The
Pursuit of Polly.” The Paramount Metro
feature offers “In Judgment Of,” which is
embellished by the personality of Anne Nils-
son in the principal part. At the Britannia
the current week has been divided between
Alice Brady in “Her Great Chance” and
Frank Keenan in his lively performance of
“The Bells.” At the Melba, Fairbanks, in
“The Habit of Happiness,” is alone worth
the money. The film will bring a smile in
the most unexpected places.
“Goody Two Shoes” was an exhilarating
circumstance at Adelaide Royal for two
“My Lady Frayle” at
Melbourne Tivoli.
Claude Flemming as
Lucifer D. Nation.
crowded wee k s.
The comparatively
serious characters
are, as seen in
Adelaide, adequate
rather than thrill-
ing. The show
lives by its spec-
taclc —the rain-
bows, magic tent
and such things,
the aeroplane to
the Pole being
S' o o d acrobatics
well stage - man-
aged—ita melody
and its fun. Stig-
ant, Langsford and
Herbert Walton
work hard on the
amusement, Toby
Claude is effective,
and Fred Walton’s
movements are
masterly. Also,
Lucy Sullivan
starts on what
should be a career
as dancer on Gentle
lines. At the
Tivoli, the obliging
Anderson m e 1 o-
dra m a co, is
standing down to
make room for “The Better ’Ole.” In
the Majestic bill the Courtneys are the
best; they have good material, and get the
last ounce out of it. The Gilfains are effec-
tive, and the girl member is one of the
prettiest things seen of late. A new second
part, of an impossible American tramp pass-
big as a duke, is carried through by the
broad humor of A 1 Bruce and the fine voice
and presence of Mabelle Morgan. West’s
have a strongly-contrasted picture pro-
gramme—Marie Tempest’s country-house
comedy of silk stockings and Nazimova in
a powerful “Revelation” play. At Wonder-
graph 'William Ilart is the usual iceberg
melting under woman’s influence, and at the
I’av. Viola Dana is with Australia’s old
friend, Hale Hamilton.
We all have our troubles. Before the
Lerth Arbitration Court the Barmaids’
Phi ion, asking for a minimum-wage of
()is._ bd. a week, complained bitterly. They
can t, they say, help spilling beer on their
boots, and it cracks the leather and—well,
your Honor, you’re a married man yourself,
and know what girls’ boots cost.
In a recent Melbourne breach-of-promise
case the defendant said he was 57, more or
less addicted to drink, weak about the heart
and had an income of £3lO. of which £llO
was only a life interest. Plaintiff had been
engaged to him for 19 years, and liis final
opinion was that she w r as only running after
bs money. It seems a long way to run
after very little money, especially for a per-
son encumbered with skirts. The Court
called it the Consolation Stakes and fixed
her prize at £450.
. It “ay be taken for granted that the
AAV ,T J . will have nothing to do with the
scheme of Garden Judd and co. for the for-
matmn of the 0.8. U., even though its con-
stitution approves of One Big Union for
Australian workers. The AAV.U. has no in-
tention of being swallowed, being out to do
the swallowing itself. As editor Boote put
WrHS. A.W.O. WOBKER, 'the
AAV.Ij. will be a determining factor in anv
scheme ultimately ' acted upon, and its power
and piestige will exercise their rightful
influence. ° u -
The report of the' Wheat Commission in
S. Aus. has made Butler, the representative
of the old Liberal side in the Ministry, more
of a Dismal Dick than ever. The Commis-
sion finds various of the charges against him
unproved, but conies to the conclusion that
he not only tried to influence a subordinate’s
evidence, but, generally, used the Wheat
Pool with an eye to his own political advan-
tage. Further, his personal interference in
at least one matter resulted in heavy loss
to the farmers. The report probably
won’t help the farmers much ; but it is going
to benefit the Labor party a good deal.
There should be a sub-department of the
Depot, administration to nose around among
the shysters who, for their own profit, offer
to get Billjim a job. The Returned Sol-
diers’ League, doing a bit in this direction
in Melbourne, has reported a case in which
advts. offered “good positions” to returned
men. Several Billjims paid their fares down
from the bush to chase these positions, only
to be told that they would be required to
first take a business course at the adver-
tiser’s “college.” Fee: £lO 10s. It shouldn’t
be necessary for the League to prod the
Minister before he deals with this low-down
business.
While Tudor says that the decent Austra-
lians who quitted in disgust will be allowed
to come back to the Labor party in the name
of peace, and foregather with the scum which
the party still neglects to sweep away, the
invitation doesn’t include the Parliamentary
leaders. If the rank and file come back
without them, then the leaders, deprived of
support, will presumably lose their seats —
and make room for more men of the Bol-
shevik order. If he wants to keep his repu-
tation for being one of the Moderates, Tudor
had better think again.
When its minerals are exhausted Cobar
(N.S.W.) will cease to be, for there is noth-
ing thereabouts to support agriculture, and
there is nothing to manufacture with, and
the sparse sheep and the numerous rabbit
don’t require much of a town. At present
Cobar is practically shut tip because the
price of copper has fallen. Yet some hun-
dreds of men want the Government to find
employment for them out of loans or other-
wise by building local works, to be aban-
doned when the mines give out. The Hol-
man Government will go a long way to
meet a voter ; but even the Holman Govern-
ment won’t go that far. Instead, it offers
them work in more permanent places; and
that is as much as any Government ought
to do.
Just before McPherson left for England
he ordered that Wages Board rates should
be paid to Vie. Government Printing Office
comps as from January 1. Now the rail-
way skilled workers, who are paid less than
Wages Board rates, have come along to
Premier Lawson and demanded similar treat-
ment, under threat of takinsr a strike ballot.
And Lawson will be banged if he can see
how the Government can make fish of a
printer and flesh of a boilermaker. On the
other hand, if the Government pays its
tradesman as much as the casual private em-
ployer does, ( then the employee of the casual
employer will be entitled to ask whether he
oughtn’t to get all the privileges that the
Government servant has. McPherson prob-
ably laid the foundations for a lot of mischief
without knowing it.
Have these politicians short memories or
do they simply depend on the public hav-
ing shorter? Even while J. M. Joshua,
chairman of the Melbourne match eo., was
telling the employees that the reason why the
Richmond 4 Vic.) factory was half-idle was
that, not 300 yards away, Japanese matches
were retailed for less than it cost the Aus-
tralian factory to produce them, Opposition-
leader Tudor was telling a St. Kikla audi-
ence that there was urgent need for a Pro-
tective tariff, and that the National party
had promised it over and over again. ft
did, and so did Labor-leaders Fisher and
Hughes and Tudor, in 1010 and again in ’ll.
“In the first session of the new Parliament”
were Fisher’s words in Sept., 1014. Has
Tudor, Fisher’s Minister of Customs, for-
gotten how that promise wasn’t kept? Or
the strenuous efforts he didn’t make to force
such a tariff into existence?
Watt’s ultimatum to Westralia, Queens-
land and Tasmania, declaring that those
States must modify their quarantine rules or
do without ships, is likely to prove Willie’s
Waterloo. In Tasmania, at any rate, all
political parties are united in protest, and at
a public meeting at Hobart scorching resolu-
tions, supported by both Nationalist and
Labor members, were unanimously handed
across the Straits to the Acting Prime Min-
ister. That Watt is the very biddable ser-
' ? n . t , e shipping interests is now quite
plain to all Tasmanians, and it is well under-
stood that if any one of Tasmania’s eleven
federal members (nine of them—four Sen-
ators and five Reps.—are Nationalists) fail
to repudiate Watt and all his works, now.
henceforth and for ever, that one will experi-
ence a cluliy time at next year’s polls.
A. Von Doussa, secretary of the Onka-
paringa Racing Club, the most successful of
its kind in Australia, had a 71st birthday
on April 27. He was born in Adela.de, and
his connection with the Club, of which he
nas one of the founders, landed him in the
S. Aus. Legislative Council 18 years ago
ar.d has kept him there ever since.
The 0.8. U. idea of appointing “workers”
to the Bench is said to have been adopted by
the revolutionary Government at Budapest
(Hungary). A milliner aged 23 was appa-
rently the first appointee; at least, she is
the first who as got a mention. She re-
buked a girl-prisoner who tried to curry
favor by calling her “worthy lady,” and saiil
she must be addressed as “Comrade.” Then
"Comrade” fell on the girl-prisoner, who had
stolen her mistress’s boots, with a sentence
of live years. It suggests either a -strong
objection to rival girls or an exaggerated
idea on the part of the millinery-judge about
the rights of. property. Perhaps s.■ had
been demoralised by fitting corsets mi the
peerage.
“The Pariah”: One thing stands out
plainly in the Japanese boilover about the
equality question. The names of those who
are prominent are nearly all of the old
school—the Samurai, who were the only
beings for whom life in old Japan was
worth living. Commerce brought with it a
desire for a new master, and the frequent
changes of Ministries in the last few years
showed how deeply this was affecting public
life, in spite of the attempts of the old
brigade to hinder it. Now that the Jap (in
common with others) is still denied admit-
tance to America and Australia except
under conditions, the Samurai are attempt-
ing to Stir the public, hoping in this way to
prolong their power. If they fail in this
they will soon be out of sight, for their day
vvas about done, and they have for a long
lime felt the chill of the twilight.
“E.S.S." : The permit to leave gaol to
attend Ilyett’s funeral, granted the other day
to R. S. Ross (the Melbourne journalist)
and H. F. Smith, who are serving sentences
for breaches of the War Precautions Act,
reminds me of a case in a little Richmond
River (N.S.W.) town in the old cedar days.
Two of the citizens were doing penance at
the lockup. Only Sergeant Blank and a
black-tracker were on the premises, and the
sergeant had a big timber district to attend
to. Sr. he put the prisoners on their honor.
Provided they cut a bit of wood fdr the
bolise in the morning, and returned to cells
before 9 pan., they were allowed to spend
the day at home. One of them had a job in
town, and worked at it all through his sen-
tence, The “prisoners” mostly had a glass
at the pub before running themselves in at
night.
“D,”: The War Office has finalised the
statps of the 1914-15 star. All are eligible
for it who landed in Egypt up to the end of
December, 1915, and “served on the estab-
lishment of a unit” there. In short, the red,
white and blue ribbon is valueless as a fight-
ing decoration. The writer went into camp
at Heliopolis in November, 1915, and had a
very pleasant time, and no more fighting than
was requisite to get into one or other of the
bars at Shepheard’s during the busy even-
ing hours, up to the moment the A.I.F. left
for France. He met during those months
Britishers of the .original B.E.F. and many
Anzacs. Technically he has as much right
to wear the star as they have. It is a
gratuitous method of sowing ill-feeling, not
only amongst Australians but throughout
the Empire.
“Fax” : The late Dick Casey, open-handed
and genial, was a man with many good po'nts
oc business character; but he made some
hitter enemies. Especially over Goldsbrough-
Mort’s. Many years ago he went to England
as a purchaser of that cole debentures when
stock was Suffering from the depression of
a series of very gloomy balance-sheets;
and the Wondrous dividends that followed
when Dick had done the trick enriched him
mightily. That’s when he figured as a
prominent owner of racehorses; and I’ve
always thought that the Goldsbrough-Mort
reconstruction had a good deal to do with
the lack of sympathy he had over his com-
parative want of luck on tlio turf. But he
had so many other virtues that doubtless he
will come out all right on the great settling
day.
Suffering from iritis, Vic. Chief Sec.
Bowser has allowed himself to take a holiday
for two or three weeks. He denies that he
contemplates quitting the Coalition Govern-
ment. On the contrary, one of the reasons
for his spell is that he may brace himself up
to study and introduce the Health Bill,
which is to be the feature of next session.
John McWliae, Hon. Minister, whom Bowser
says he “discovered” when he made him Min-
ister _ for Works, has taken charge tem-
porarily of the Chief Secretary’s and Healih
Departments, and is making things hum,
commandeering the help of Brigadier Wil-
-1 ams and F. C. Dyason as organisers to
fight the ’flu.


Weather-proof
Yourself
Now, Sir!
'-'•N
V
i_ ’- r-
=7^
3TI, .?
\
t
c .
>'-Y i '
We can help you to weather-
proof yourself in readiness
for winter days. And the
cost need not worrv you.
70|-
puts you in possession of
or Chesterfield
This coat comes in nobby
Australian All-wool Blan-
kety tweeds—dark shades.
Made with wide collar, fly-
front, with or without belt
at back. It’s a coat that
gives maximum comfort and
adds distinction to the
appearance. At the
price quoted it is
sterling value. We
stock in all sizes.
ORDER YOURS
TO-DA Y.
If you can’t step in
for a try-on, better
send height and chest
measurements over
coat to Desk R.
MURDOCH’S
in Park
St Ltd.
Complete Outfitters for Men and Boys.
Wedding Presents
OF EXCEPTIONAL QUALITY.
The Firm’s selections of Silver-ware, Silverplated-ware, Ivory,
Tortoiseshell, and Enamel Brusliware, are all representative
of the Very Highest Quality and Workmanship.
Every piece bears the unmistakable stamp of taste and refine-
ment, and makes a Wedding Present that meets with
instantaneous appreciation.
§ I sfc-
Heavy, Solid Silver Fruit Dish, in Case,
£25/10/-
Selections of Articles sent on approval to any address in the
Commonwealth.
Orders by mail receive the Firm’s prompt
and careful attention.
®Ent fflrummonb & Co
344-346 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE.
" 'jJuiViniaßjnußVv P UIB :>!Ji*»»l3 asnoqjiuijsa/yy Msijijg aq :
i«11111111111111111 iYI 111111111 M111111111111111111111111 i 1111 i 111111111111111111111111111111 i 11111111111111II11111 M111111111 i 1111111111 i 11 lit 11111 111 I MIIIII MIIIII
Westinghouse
Tramway Controllers
SOME SPECIAL FEATURES:
Exceptionally strong mechanical construction.
Simple mechanism with minimum number of parts.
All parts made to gauge and strictly interchangeable.
Liberal rating of all current carrying parts.
Low maintenance.
All wearing parts easily and cheaply renewable.
Renewable finger and drum arcing tips.
All parts easily accessible both for inspection and repairs.
Simple method of cutting out either motor, when required.
Most powerful magnetic controller blow-out on the market.
Constant finger tension irrespective of wear.
Stubbing entirely prevented by special design of finger springs.
All connections are visible on removal of front cover.
Ample space for incoming cables.
AUSTRALIAN OFFICES : 84 William Street, Melbourne; 14 Martin Place, Sydney.
AGENTS: ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Perth.
; puiex jj'ug' '*jfajsaipuie w ‘>ipJojj\*4X s^JOM
lIMIIIIIHIIIIIIIMIM ■ 11111 ■ I ■( I (■ 11 ■■ II ■ I I 111111111111111 1111 i 11 I ’ I ( I ( I I T 1 1 I I I I 11 M 1 i I I I 1 I ! i 11 I !' 111 i 11 1 111111 ] I I
TARANTULLE
REGD.
The Quality Cotton Fabric for Lingerie and Baby- Wear
a
Tarantulle lingerie returns time
after time from the laundry as
fresh and shimmering as sun-
shine. Its spotless whiteness
and lasting softness are a boon
to dainty and particular ladies.
Tarantulle is absolutely pure,
and perfectly woven —a delight
equally to the home-needle-
worker and the wearer.
In three weights 40 inches wide :
providing for every lingerie need.
Standard, Fine, and Superfine.
Always see name on selvedge.
ml Bff
TO
WJWASJIH®
These goods assure satisfaction
in color, wash, and wear. Their
guaranteed quality has made
their popularity world-wide.
Sold by Drapers and Stores.
TOOTAL CLOTH : The Guaranteed
Velvet Fabric, equal to silk velvet for
graceful draping. Rich colors that will not
rub off. In plain and cord, 27 inches wide.
TARANTULLE {Reid.)-. The quality
Cotton Fabric for Lingerie and Baby-wear.
In three weights—-10 inches wide.
LISSUE HANDKERCHIEFS (Reid.)
for ladies. Da'nty exquisite self-white and
indelible color border designs.
PYRAMID HANDKERCHIEFS (Reid.)
for men. Correct self-white and exclusive
indelible color border designs.
TOBRALCO (Reid.)-. The Cotton Wash-
dress Fabric in world-wide use. Self-white
and indelible colors. 27/28 inches wide.
TOOTAL PIQUE: White and indelible
colors. 43/44 inches wide.
NAMRIT: The Indelible Voile. In
printed designs and self-colors. 40 inches
wide.
TOOTAL SHIRTINGS for men and
women. Indelible colors. 32 inches wide.
ALL COMMUNICATIONS TO
G.P.0., BOX 1035, MELBOURNE.
TOOTAL BROADHURST LEE CO. LTD., MANCHESTER. LAN


GIVE- HYGIENIC AR.TISTIC FLOORS
IN THE HOME. WAREHOUSE and OFFICE.
XTRA. HAR
DISTINGUISHED for BEAUTY of FINISH
EASE OF APPLICATION AN I) ENDURING WEAR.
SUPER
-FINE
If not obtainable at local hardware store
write to
TiUIBMANS LIMITED
T arnish Makers,
232 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
492 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
m
m
Throat
ritt[BBtyg
SB**'
c=«'’>
■
s#i|p
FREE
( TRIAL
BOTTLE
Disorders
of Digestion.
Catarrhal, Fermentative, Ulcerative.
Angier’s Emulsion exercises soothing, lubricating,
antifermentative effects throughout the entire digestive
tract. That is why it is so valuable in affections of the
stomach and intestines. It soothes and cleanses the
mucous membrane, allays irritation, fermentation,
catarrh, ulceration. It restores tone to all the digestive
functions and it promote i normal healthy action of the
bowels. Prescribed by the medical profession for
twenty-four years, it has proved its value in many
obscure digestive and bowel disorders.
Send name and address, 4d. postage, and mention this paper.
ANGIER CHEMICAL CO., LTD., 233 Clarence St., Sydney, N.S.W.
POVERTY
POINTS
MOET &
CHANDON
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
Eugenie Duggan, the inventor of perpetual
emotion, returns to the stage in a few weeks,
after several years of home life, in which she
has not been identified with a single murder.
Her reappearance will be as a young Arme-
nian who is chased into a harem.
Nine young Australians fare forth this
month to conquer the world with their toes.
They start dancing in S’Africa, for which
country they hold contracts, and, all being
well, will continue round the world. They
are led by Nellie Fallon, a dainty performer
in many a revue, and the principal boy’s
best girl in several pantomimes.
“Orphan Onn”: There lives a dear old
lady next door to me who possesses a mar-
vellous autograph-album. One very wet
Saturday afternoon she complained to her
friend the baker that, so far, she had been
unable to secure any specimen of Julius
Knight’s handwriting; whereupon the baker
(who, besides carrying loaves to the old
lady, served Julius as well) offered to try
to gather in the trophy for her book; with
the result that on page 54, right opposite to
the late General Booth’s signature, appears
the only poem that the act-or ever wrote :
TO THE BAKER.
One Broun,
Tiro White.
Gone to town.
Julius Knight.
“Simel” : Lately-dead Frtflkcis P. Winter,
formerly Chief Justice of New Guinea, mar-
ried many years ago Edith Moore, ojie-iime
member of Williamson’s Opera Co., and
sister of a star of other days. She pre-
deceased him about a dozen years.
“S.S.”: Patrons of musical burlesques
nowanights observe a comforting absence of
turns and ditties based on the amatory
peculiarities of chickens, cats, canaries and
other familiar fauna; but the hiatus is filled
in with an exploitation of the possibilities
of the flapper that is still less agreeable. We
are often introduced to bands of supposed
little girls, with their hair a-hanging down
their backs, who spend the evening endeavor-
ing to drive home the conviction that, fleet
though the grown-ups of the piece may be.
the swiftness of the flapper exceeds the
speed limit. In order that no mistake may
be made, there is a voluptuous display of
gaudy lingerie, there are dances full of in-
sinuation. and even stressed avowal that the
little girl wants the worst of everything.
There are little girls like that, but the man
who takes delight in florid displays of their
morbid precocity ought to be on the other
side of the bars of a cage.
“Wilyum the Silent”: Actors are more
versatile than some people thought. Jack
Cannot is teaching singing; Clyde Cook has
issued a writ against J.C.W.. Ltd.; Madge
De Vere is nursing ’flu patients; Leslie Gaze
is suing Mclntosh for breach ; Florence Fox
is learning to understudy Annette Iveller-
man; Frank Greene is leading the simple
life; Rosie Farkes has the ’flu ; Billy liego
is taking singing lessons (not from Jack
Cannot) ; Goodie Reeve has been reporting
things for a weekly paper. The rest put
out of work by Sydney ’flu restrictions have
been making Poverty Foint look its old self
again.
Happy Broken Hill! There is a ghost
walking there, according to vivid accounts
in the daily papers.
A. J. Patrick, the young Maoriland
mummer who, after marrying Joan Meynell,
went to U.S.A. and became Belasco’s white-
haired boy, will probably “produce” a couple
of plays—“ Tiger Rose” and Cosmo Hamil-
ton’s “The Blindness of Virtue”—for the
Taits before lie returns to America.
“0.K.”: The Rigo Co.’s failure with
“Maritana” doesn’t prove that Wallace’s
melodious ballad opera has grown too
old-fashioned for revival. Of course the
lines, spoken by a number of young Aus-
tralian concert-singers who are still ama-
teurish in talking and acting, sounded mostly
absurd to the present generation. Probably
not one of them had ever seen the opera per-
formed with ease and confidence by practised
THE QUITTER.
KIND-HEARTED ONLOOKER: “Why do you oil shun this poor little boy?"
STINKER ( scornfully): “Hull! He hopped off the swing boats afore he got sick."
professionals in the manner of a bygone age,
when such lines as “Fly, I hear a footfall !”
were as permissible as the now-stilted lan-
guage of “The Lady of Lyons.” The
exuberant sentimentalism and crude threatri-
calism of “Maritana” (which, at least, is
less foolish than “The Bohemian Girl”)
were not foreign to the method of an early
Carl Rosa or Montagu-Turner Opera Co.
Artists who made it seem almost reasonable
30 years ago used to suit their gestures to
the words, their gait and bearing to the
situations. There was a romantic, bom-
bastic ballad-opera style of acting, even as
there was an old English comedy mode of in-
terpretation. which had survived in a measure
from the 18th century. Rigo’s Australian
singers had no idea of adapting themselves to
the requirements of poor old “Maritana.”
They didn’t know enough of stage business
and deportmental swank. They couldn’t im-
part an air of picturesque reality to their
characters. Their acting lacked breadth,
roundness, sincerity and dash. But there is
a way of avoiding ridicule in the utterance
of old speeches which are notoriously turgid.
Oscar Asche, in “The Honeymoon,” gave an
example of the art when he delivered the lines
beginning “The man who raises his hand to
a woman, except in the way of kindness.”
They seemed to come so naturally from his
character of the wife-taming husband that
you began to wonder whether a revival of
Home’s “Douglas” couldn’t be made inter-
esting as a curio. Given the right atmo-
sphere. a handsome leading juvenile might
spout “My name is Nerval: on the Grampian
Hill my father feeds his flocks,” etc., without
setting the audience in a roar.
“Pam”: The Bultetin critic roasted the
Rigo chorus several times ou account of its
lamb-like and choral-society ways; but after
a week or two that was the producer’s fault
—it was up to him to show what could be
done with an awkward squad. If the girls
didn’t advance in their make-up, lie should
have got in an old pro. to teach ’em. They
invariably looked like an Indian-famine
crowd posing for a photo. Rigo made a big
noise when he started out, but he failed to
make good; it may be that he is a stage-
manager and not a producer, which would
account for the milk in the coeoanut.
“Ancient Prompter”: “0.K.” is right (B.
24/4/T9). All the lesson of “The Doctor’s
Dilemma” is told in the 4th act- -and quite
late enough, too. The sth is superfluity,
anti-climax. But Shaw never seems to know
when he has said enough. Why isn’t he
“cut” in presentation? We don’t hesitate
to hack Shakspeare about. “Hamlet” as
Shakspeare wrote it contained about 4200
lines. Only about half of them are spoken
in performance. Yet producers of Shaw
plays seem to think that the audience wants
every word. It doesn’t.
“Glencoe”: H. Lauder, the Scottish
comic (as you like it) singer, of
whom Sydney D.T. had the (color it your
own way) audacity to print that he would
“make the kookaburra famous.” has been
knighted, I observe. He explains through
his press-agent or somebody that he doesn’t
know why he was fitted with spurs. (Five
minutes off here to mentally see the appari-
tion of Lauder in petticoats and spurs!)
Which settles all bets about the Scotch-
man’s inability to see a joke and the Eng-
lishman’s ability to “put it across” him.
"Van Eek” ; Ellis Holland not only played
the role in “Our Miss Gibbs” in England
that his brother Leslie did in Australia, but
both he and his brother played up to
Blanche Browne as Mary Gibbs. Ellis came
to Australia a few weeks ago for Mclntosh,
and made his d6but in “My Lady Frayle” in
Melbourne
“Jay Kay” : Young Hugh Huntley struck
bad luck when he decided to migrate to the
U.S.A. When the embargo on shows first
came into force in Sydney he arranged with
the Mclntosh folk to cancel his contract and
push off to America. But at the last minute
Huntley couldn't get his passport vised, not
having a job to go to in America; and Uncle
Sam is strict on that point just now with a
lot of men of his own to find work for.
Comedian John Junior goes back to his
own land by the Ventura.
“Vic." : The Davidsons keep on limelight-
ing plrickily in their house in Warrigal-road.
Oakleigh, the distant Melbourne suburb. The
latest experiment was a short romance, called
“Prisoners,” made specially to display the
classical dancing of Constance Webb. Sup-
porters of the Australian National Theatre
movement supplied the audience. The play
was anonymous, and so were the mummers.
There was a strange, mystic atmosphere,
which made one think of Shelley's poetry.
The auditorium was 'the drawing-room, but
the performance went on beautifully outside,
in a woodland picture, with brilliant lighting,
scenic effects and rippling piano music by
Miss Maddoek.
Itigo’s opera singers open in Sydney with
“Cavalleria” and “Pagliacci,” The two
gems have been coupled so long that the
Italians refer to them as ‘'birra e gazzosa” —
in Australian, “shandy.”
"Ike” : Who says we are not cosmopolitan
in our tastes? A while ago Nellie Leach
was with Mclntosh in revue, Vera Bedford
(as Veronica) with Fuller in vaudeville, and
Cappelli sang leads in grand opera. Now
Nell and Vera are in grand opera, alul Cap.
lifts his tenor in vaudeville.
Said the vaudeville veteran: “Lauder has
succeeded because he is not. sensitive like
most comedians. Mostly they are half
afraid of their audiences and like to feel
their way. From his start, however,
Lauder had any amount of confidence in
himself both on and off the stage, and lack ef
sensitiveness gradually moulded him into a
first-class advertiser. No sensitive man
could kiss John Tait as Lauder did on arri-
val. But John need not flatter himself.
The Scotchman would have kissed any old
friend, or even casual acquaintance, if the
reporters were around. As regards his
alleged meanness it’s all bluff. Lauder is
careful, but I sat on many committees with
him, and anything for the welfare of his
brother artists had his liberal financial sup-
port.”
“Stargazer” : In Harry Rickards’s day a
man calling himself “Vulcan, Breaker of
Bolts and Bars,” made,a hit at the Opera
House with a turn somewhat similar to the
one Houdini brought along a few years later.
Vulcan undertook to escape from any hand-
cuff anybody could fasten upon him, and
arranged to forfeit something consider-
able if a lock put upon a door to his cabinet
could hold him. He created a racket, and
his turn had a conspicuous spot on the bill,
One night ’Arry received a hasty message,
advising him to put Vulcan's turn back a
few holes. Vulcan had been accidentally
trapped in the Hotel bathroom, and couldn’t
get out till a locksmith had been sent for.
“First Old Man” : Born Brodribb. Henry
Irving was very nearly making another sur-
name famous. A letter has recently been
dug up which he, when a stage-struck youth,
sent to a fellow clerk. The epistle is dated
September, 1865. An extract: “I have deter-
mined on taking the name of Irving instead
of Barringtone, and accordingly have ordered
50 cards, which the printers promised to
send to-morrow.”
“S.S.”: He was playing Romeo to the
Juliet of a rather plump actress-manager
who was running a Saturday-night series in
the Melbourne suburbs. At Prahran the
balcony set had been rather hastily contrived
by a novice whose specialty was pine coffins,
and who in addition was astray in drink.
At the moment when the young gallant,
having climbed to Juliet’s balcony, swells
his chest there came an ominous cracking;
the balcony moved outwards, and, bearing
the lovers with it, crashed down upon the
stage. A pause followed ; then up through
the dust and wreckage, with mock ivy trail-
ing from his manly frame, came Romeo.
Still addressing the prostrate Juliet, he said
most splendidly;
lam no pilot; yet, wert thou so far
As that vast shore washed with the furthest sea,
I would adventure for such merchandise.
“Futsac” : The entire amusement business
in Australia has at last decided to get
together in defence of its own interests. A
Grand Council is in process of formation, its
members being representative of theatre-
owners, picture-showmen and film-exchanges.
All theatres and shows in Australia will
come within its sphere; the necessary
funds will be raised by a direct contribution
of a few shillings a week from each “legit."
house, and as to picture shows by the
addition of a small amount to film-hire.
The latter charge will be made, collected and
paid in by the exchanges. The objects will
be to til present a united front in indus-
trial matters, and (2) obtain a reduction
in the amusement tax and (3) a relaxa-
tion of the censorship. It may succeed if
professional jealousy does not knock the
whole Council kite-high.
WHEN THE STAGE GOES DRY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Americans are wondering' how prohibition will
a fleet the drama. It is surmised that the new plays
will reflect the new ways by omitting all situations
which are connected with alcohol.”
There’s many a mime who has reddened his nose
In the sacred cause of Art,
AVho has “pulled them in” to numerous shows
In a sozzled comedy-part,
Says “It’s coining to cues when they cut out the
booze,”
And the end of the world seems nigh ;
For it’s certain as Fate that he’ll “rest” from the
date
That the U.S.A. goes dry.
For who’ll dare to laugh at a comedy bloke
Who staggers across the boards?
The sobersides present won’t “stand for” the joke —
It won’t touch responsive chords.
They’ll go the whole hog in their hatred of grog
(Excepting the sort called “sly”),
And the sound of “the bird” in the house will be
heard
When the U.S.A. goes dry.
And many a Yankee playwright famed
Will g :e s with his job he's “through,”
For the cocktail scenes that he deftly framed
Won’t “gee” as they used to do ;
To the cabaret and wine it's “good-day,”
And at orgies on milk ;e'll shy;
His only hope is the Drama of Dope
When the U.S.A. goes dry.
So every playhouse as glum will lie
As an old dame’s Sunday-school—-
What comedy merchant on water or tea
Has ever been known to fool ?
Good-bye to the nose that is reddened by pros.
And the cheery, bleary eye;
And I guess it won’t pay to import from Broadway
When the U.S.A. goes dry !
VICTORIA.
EAHDLEY TURNER.
TRUE TO NATURE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN..]
T wrote a graceful little play.
My people thought it just perfection.
I tried it on producers; they
All promptly raised the same objection—-
They said the woman of the piece
Had certainly twice too much niattjr,
And stood out for a great decrease
Of Lady Angelina’s chatter.
I took my play right home again,
And set about its condensation —
A thankless task of bitter pain,
And weariness and aggravation :
For, truth to tell, the dame who walks
My scenes, though not distinctly proper,
So true a woman is, she talks,
And talks, and talks, and l can't stop her!
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


Consistency
Finish
Surface l
Colour-
mm
. mmm.
■ “ J V'
nn • v
.
if
9?
«*3^S
■ Quality
'Appearance
fhi S. D. WARREN MILL at PORTLAND. MAINE. U.S.A.
ATAHE above are some of the points which characterise the Warren out-
X put. Tlbis one mill has a floor space of 27 acres, and a visi to all
departments occupies a period of two days. Here in one group of build-
ings, are gathjered all the appliances for paper-making on the most approved
scale, including a complete plant for manufacturing the chemicals, which
form so large\a part of the process. Twelve great paper-making machines
are employecfyn turning out 60,000 tons of high-grade printing paper
annually—probnbly three times the total consumption of the whole of
Australia (excepting news print.) Thirty-five thousand railway trucks
pass through Warren’s yards in a single year, bringing in raw material
and taking away the finished product.
We want the Australian “ Issuer-of-Printed-Matter ” to know something about the paper
Question. Nearly; all printing jobs are in series. For instance, the Draper issues his season-
able catalogue every Iseason ; the Seedsman puts out his booklet whenever his supplies of
printed matter are running short, and the Warehouseman starts compiling his new brochure
almost before the old one is off the press. To all of these is it not an infinite advantage to
have no v?orry about the paper for the job r 1 Goodness knows there is enough anxiety in
preparing new designs, ordering now blocks to illustrate them, and generally supervising
catalogue production without having to examine paper for quality and suitability.
Advertisers 'can set their minds at rest on the paper question by specifying Warren s when getting
quotations iptr printing—for the paper is standard quality (i.e., always the same), all printers can buy it at
the same price, and that price is not dear. Whether your job be a catalogue, folder, circular, poster,
wrapper or label, in black or colours, the Warden's Standards will fill the bid.
THESE ARE THE
PRINCIPAL LINES:
Warren’s Cumberland?
and Library Text NEK.
Warren’s Cumberland!
and Printone Super.
Warrentown, Cumber-
land, and Lustro Arts.
Warren’s Silkote, and
Cameo Dull Arts.
Warren’s Olde Style—
antique finish.
w.
M
STAN DARD
PnintindPap
Your Printer has
stocks, or can
procure from
B. J. BALL, Ltd.
Sydney,
Brisbane,
Melbourne.
Sole Agents for
Australia.


The delay in handing over the Peace Treaty to
, ] , le , Germans is officially ascribed to a desire that
Italy should he represented. A judicious use of
V n " George IV. topnotch Srotch whisky would give
the right inspiration and assist to settle such great
finest ions. —A pvt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Weet Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOOHUE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
foie Agents : RESCHS, LiniTED, Rediern, Sydney.
Goldfinder Gocxp
LEWIS&WMITTY MPLfyQIJRNF&SybNfy
IF CONSTIPATED TAKE
CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
Delicious “regulator” for stomach, liver
and bowels, for mamma, daddy,
and children.
If you are headachy, constipated, bilious,
or if the stomach is disordered and you want
to enjoy the nicest liver and bowel cleansing
you ever experienced, take a tablespoonful of
California Syrup of Figs—“Califig”— to-
night, and in the morning all the constipa-
tion poison, bile and clogged-up waste will
gently move out of the system without grip-
ing, and you will feel splendid.
Every member of the family should use
this fruit laxative as occasion demands. It
is just as effective for grandpa as it is for
baby. It simply cannot injure. Even cross,
sick, feverish children just love its pleasant
taste, and mothers can rest easy after giving,
it because it never fails to effect a good
“inside cleansing.”
For 30 years California Syrup of Figs—
“Califig”—has been recommended by physi-
cians as the ideal stomach, liver and bowel
cleanser. Millions of families who are well
informed use nothing else.
Ask your chemist for a bottle of “Califig”
—California Syrup of Figs—which has full
directions for babies, children of all ages and
for grown-ups plainly printed on the bottle.
Get the genuine, made by the California
Fig Syrup Company. Refuse any other kind
with contempt. “Califig”—California Syrup
of Figs—is sokl by all chemists in two
si_„s, 1/6 and 2/4. [5
SPORTING
NOTIONS
MICK
SIMMONS
SPORTING
NEEDS
Rob Sievier s horse Royal Bucks won
the City anil Suburban last week, after previously
taking the Lincolnshire, another of England’s biggest
handicap races. This justifies Sievier’s great faith
in the horse, which performed rottenly last year,
bnu was widely condemned as useless. Sievier, who
is financial once more, after many vicissitudes, should
make a punch in British racing in the coming years.
I here are few with more knowledge of the game.
“Cobber”: Five yearling fillies were pur-
chased by the Tasmanian Amateur Jockey Club at
the Randwick sales. They will be raced bv club
members on lease for a couple of seasons anil then
handed out to farmers as brood mares ou the foal-
and-foal-abcut principle. The Club expects to in-
crease the number of purchases each year until it
lias a large stud. This is the first direct attempt
made by an Australian racing club to improve the
breeding of thoroughbreds, although the Auckland
Racing i 'ul> has successfully conducted such a scheme
for many years. Limited capital is likely to be the
. severe handicap on the Speck’s scheme, this
initial venture being limited to £3OO.
* * * *
Two years ago Moonee Valley (Melb.)
Racecourse Proprietary was replaced by a Moor.ee
valley Racing Club. One pleasing result of the
change is that nearly £ll,OOO has been devoted bv
the club to patriotic and charitable purposes during
the past two years. Vic. racing can be turned
to even worthier ends than the encouragement of the
breed of bookmakers.
Friday last proved an unlucky day for
Frank Dempsey. The stipes at Moonie' Valley con-
sidering that the crack rider had attempted to take
an unfair advantage in regard to the draw for posi-
tion, disqualified him for two months. On the same
afternoon a light-weight apprentice jumped into
tame and caused some sensation in the profess,
this was W. Goddard, who steered J. Ogden’s
Luteplayer (favorite—4 to 1) and the same owner’s
V\ oorinyan (a 25 to 1 outsider) to victory in suc-
cessive laces. It s an ill Friday that blows nobody
any good. J
Glen Huntly”: Frank Denipsey’s disqualification
tor two months was the outcome of a sudden deter-
mination on the part of Vic. racing authorities to
put down a practice, admittedly reprehensible, which
they have pretended not to notice for vears The
charge against the youngster, which, when hauled
before the stewards, he frankly admitted, was that
he had juggled with the numbered marbles which are
used in connection with the draw for positions at the
barrier. At Flemington the drawing is done by
machinery, but at Moonee Valley (where the offence
was committed) and other courses a bag of marbles
is hung in the weighing enclosure, and each jock
dips Ins hand into the bag, and, theoretically, takes
what is coming to him, after leaving the scales It
has for long been known that jockeys anxious for a
position near the rails have made a practice of heln-
ing themselves to marbles bearing low numbers while
the officials were busy watching the preceding event
, e practice had become so general that many boys
were forced to adopt it in self-defence. Of course 'it
was time that the trick was scotched, and it was
Dempsey s hard luck to be selected as an Awful
Example. Incidentally, something l severe should be
said to wealthy racing clubs which adhere to such an
olcl-tashioned plan in connection with an important
ceremony like drawing for positions. The unguarded
selves 8 E Stanfhng lnvitation to jocks to help them-
*
Said that The Tetrarch’s stud fee in future
will be 500 guineas. This is the famous flea-bitten
Irish grey which won so often for Major McCalmont.
tor Flying Fox, the world’s champion at the begin-
paid ° f thlS C6ntury ’ 600 £ uilieis was charged and
Cou Abrahams, the owner-bookmaker
of influenza in Melbourne last week- also
John O Meara, who raced the jumper Colonel Light.
Sasanof, W. G. Stead’s great horse, won
the Trentham Gold Cup inWellington (M.L.) on
Saturday. The Melbourne Cup, M.L. Cup, Chelms-
ford Stakes and A.J.C. Spring- Slakes are some of
his successes. He has won nearly £ 17,000 in stakes.
A turf reformer in the United States sug-
gests that a rule be passed there that nominations
be refused of horses that are given to breaking
blood-vessels. In placing- this matter before the
authorities the statement was made: “In Australia
a horse that is known to have bled twice is not
even permitted to race. A bleeder is not a sound
horse, and it is not fair that the public should be
permitted to wager on such animals.” There is no
such rule in Australia, and never has been. Most
vets, decline to say that bleeding has any prejudicial
effect on a horse’s capacity to gallop. Hermit,
the Derby winner of 1807, was a bleeder, and it
was chiefly owing to the delusion that he couldn’t
do himself justice, in consequence, that a famous
punter-peer was ruined when he won. John O’Meara,
who died on Saturday, raced and did remarkably
well with another notorious bleeder—Anttoil.
Those lucky speculators, Clark and Robin-
son, have been associated as sharebrokers and race-
horse owners for many vears. Lionel Robinson and
William Clark were both members of the Melbourne
Exchange, the former from 1893 to 1899, when he
went to England ; the latter from 1888 to 1902.
The first racehorse they owned was Hainault fby Pil-
grim's Progress). He won the Fulham Park Plate
in Adelaide in 1897, in the name of Mr. Clark.
Hainault the same season won races at Morphett-
ville and Melbourne, and the following year took the
S. Aus. Derby. After 1904 Clark and Robinson
neglected Australia for some years, running their
horses in England, but of late they have landed big
stakes in the Commonwealth with horses sent from
the Cold Country. In addition to their accumula-
tions on ’change and turf, they lifted big Tasmanian
prizes when the Parisian won the Melbourne Cup
and Bronzetti the Caulfield.
R. W. HEATH.
“ Tl >e Oldest Inhabitant”: An old-time
Melbourne bookmaker, who occasionally varied the
occupation with hotel-keeping, once—in 1870, to be
precise—adopted a unique method of collecting his
debts of honor.” He advertised that he was retiring
from betting for a time, and had “for sale, privately,
over £4OOO outstanding betting accounts, a little
damaged. If not disposed of by May 20 they will
be sold by public auction. A good opening for a
young rising bookmaker that is good for three
rounds. Particulars as to name’-, amounts and
at. dresses to T. Coker, Governor Arthur Hotel.”
The Governor Arthur was a sporting pub in Little
Bourke-street, at the rear of Kirk’s Bazaar, a resort
for clean horsey men.
Melbourne horse-reporters protest over-
much in admiration of Section, one of “S. A. Raw-
don’s” two-year-olds, that won its first race the
other day. The occasional win of a wealthy
owner who runs ’em straight • invariably brings
excessive praise of the gee. In this case' Geoffrey
oyme s triumphant youngster was receiving “>st
from the favorite that finished third, so there was
nothing much in the victory to make a song about.
Noveltheless the breeding of Section suggests that
he may be a good little horse next vear. He is
one of “Rawdon’s” own raising—by Broadsword from
•Circle, the dam of Blague, a Newmarket winner.
Blague, whom the colt resembles, was a corkv little
sprinter, and Broadsword, who won the Doncaster
after narrowly missing the Newmarket, was a fine
strong fellow, with an iron constitution. Section
should be easy to train.
* * *
A unique incident occurred after Svlvan-
'te had won the V.R.C. Derby for R. G. Casev re-
cently deceased. The local Governor’s wife had to
cast a lengthy blue ribbon round the neck of the
ncr\ ous animal, and Svlvanite was very restive
under the ordeal. Finally her Ex. succeeded in
throwing the ribbon correctly, but at that instant
the gee bioke trom the oustodv of his trainer Tor
owner) and bolted for the saddling-paddock. The
return of the galloping hero, with reins and ribbon
hang] mg loose about him. caused great excitement in
the birdcage, but no barm came to him. Svlvanite
made straight for his stall and stopped when he
got there.
Spanner, who brought 3000 guineas in
M.L. last week, is coming to Australia. He was bred
in N. S. Wales by H. R, Denison, and went for a
paltry figure when the Eumaralla stud broke up. His
new owner, W. Richmond, is one of the heaviest
punters in Australasia.
Another melancholy testimonial to the
deadness of professional boxing in Britain was the
cabled news that Petty-officer Curran had been re-
trieved from the tomb to meet McGoorty. The p.o.
has the misfortune to foul frequently, and is a
poor boxer, anyway. His one redeeming feature is
a remarkable capacity for standing punishment.
McGoorty outed him on this occasion in eight rounds;
10 years ago the Yank got a points decision in 20
rounds.
‘•Bill Bowyang”: The one-time grass-
fighter of Outback is fast disappearing. I met a
tew of Bananaland s best in my time. Jack Toomey,
ot Bundaberg, was amongst the top-notchers. in
Ins young days he was considered a white hope and
was sent to Sydney to be tried by Larry Foley. In
tl.e third round of an exhibition spar Toomey lost
his temper and Foley refused to have anything
more to do with him. Later, at Bundaberg, he made
i eter telix look like a novice. 1 met him in Proser-
pine 15 .years back, and he was then considered the
best grass-fighter in the sugar districts. Another
outdoor pug was Jack Truce, who fought 35 rounds
with Darky Ryan in the dry bed of the Proserpine
River. At the end of the disturbance the verdict
was a draw. Prior to meeting Ryan, Truce held an
undefeated record. Sergeant Ryan, heavyweight
cuampion of the Bananaland police force, was
matched with him several times, but the scrap never
P«“- Strange to say, both of these great
0 i as,-fighters were afterwards mobbed by Kanakas
ended 0 SenoUsly in J ured that t h eir fighting day's were
. t s!' en is another attempt to be made to
tioduce the salmon to Commonwealth rivers?
there is no more paying industry in the fish line,
the ordinary European salmon was tried years a«o
tor some reason the experiment failed. The fish
went down to the sea, as their yearly habit is, and
never returned. Different theories were advanced to
expiam the tragedy. Some talked of pirate fish ;
others claimed that Australian waters are too warm.
w^ an li on ® the greatest countries in the
duceVln n 1 , varletl es of fish, recently tried to intro-
duce. the Quinnat salmon- i Pacific Coast variety
which is excellent for eating, whether fresh or
tinned as well as being game to the backbone. The
Quinnat salmon is understood to visit the sea onlv
once in four years. A run is expected in two years’
far as 0 Mr IS - the proble ™ be considered
buivea so lai as M.L. is concerned;
The Australian mainland has at least one ideal
salmon river—the Snowy. The temperature of the
watei is all that could be wished, and there is
an ample flow. The waterfalls are formidable but
the JT 6 S ° than -f hose of ( sa - v ) Norway, which
of 31 t eaSlly / able to negotiate by means
streams Th ° f u CoUrse > « foil o: suitable
streams. The pirate-fish factor, by the way, seems
In’the wortb considering. There is no faster fish
with it to h iM the salnl °. n ;t0 compare a snapper
v nh it is to liken a traction-engine to a motor-car
And snapper Unless on the end of lines, have no
difficulty m eluding the pirates.
Jules Vedrines, a French “Acerof Aces”
has been killed while flying high and under
peace conditions. It is like the crick steeplechase
£7 who b r ks llls neok t,lrou f?h his hack stum-
bling over a drain. Vedrines was a notable flier in
ance as early as 1905, when the adve.iturer who left
the ground for a 10 minutes journey took his life
Min's Simoon 116 • JUSt m , issed winnin g the Daily
tl,p ™,.t?,s°i P t ri i e ’- and U P to the beginning of
the wai he held 1 1 flving records. He flew a lot in
the Somme sector, where he was well known to many
Australians, and he also did good work for France
at the dangeious job of testing machines.
Cabled that the Prince of Wales bought a
hunter at Tattersall’s for 400 guineas. Thif is a
top price m England for a light-l.veight—the Prince
of liis y famR U v * He wi ", be the first member
or ms family to bunt seriously. Edward VII was
a bad rider and nervous; George lias never gone in
for more of it than he could help.
i-he rise in the cost of golfing was empha-
assle dthfrSi laSt r w f k Backhouse
assessed the Concord Links at £15,070. The Con-
Council had fixed the unimproved capital value
SvdleVTn/ I 16 ’ 7 . 5 . 0 ’, There is a la «d boom on in
certain’ n I , ess lt .„ bu , rsts shortly membership of
Clubs w ‘ll be almost as expensive as
Pa v ° f a Rolls-Royce. Notably the Rose
Lav Club. When E. p. Simpson and a few other
f"* hu . s . lasts star t«] it a couple of decades back, or
rW o* 7 aS a ' v, lderness of open drains, Chinese gar-
and scrub Now the neighborhood is a fashion-
able residential quarter.
ihe panic in England over the rabies
outbreak has culminated in an order that all sus-
pected dog-ssball be slaughtered, and also all cats.
H the inevitable pogrom thins down the Old Country’s
dog-and-cat population by 20 or 30 per cent the
scare will have done good. Nowhere is the net-
animal craze carried to such length’s. In some
country towns there are about 150 dogs to the average
twA manners are appalling— so much so
tnat the fastidious citizen prefers to walk on the
wt hel ’ tb ,u U ° T n tbe f °otpaths. London is
luUe better. The Londoner loves and encourages
cats. Jhen he goes away for his annual holiday
and m innumerable cases the unhappy brutes are left
mnrfv’T' • T l le , R '? PC A - s Pcnds much time and
money during July, August and September (the holi-
d,\ y ™ or!tl . l3) salvaging, and either supporting or
Ciilorofoi nimg’, these derelicts.
i calls of the wool-valuing profession
badn t intervened, Rupert Greene, the dapper V.R.C
srarter, might have been a sort of Admirable Crichton
m the sporting world. About 20 years ago he was
turned the for th A e , MX ' C - and just then he
turned the game up. After that he was a leadino-
It l0 nlf f -° r m wh i le V, Later on he had a swipe
with LemprFra. championship of Victoria
“Bordac”; They wake up in Tassy some-
times. The other day some sports ordered a steam-
launch in which to watch a boat-race on the Derwent.
When the hirers arrived they found an apologetic
owner, a stolid bailiff sitting abaft the funnel, and
the time of the race, some miles away, rapidly
approaching. Of course they swore and gave it up?
Not a bit of it. They hustled on board, rattled up
the engines, and took boat, bailiff and all to the
fixture.
The inter-collegiate sports of St. Peter and
Prince Alfred in Adelaide were more exciting this
year than ever. Against all reasonable odds, the
whole programme of 17 events was gone through
without the first and second to finish ever being on
the same side. Thus there was never much difference
in the score. St. Peter’s had a small lead when
the mile was reached, and, winning that, got home
by 61 points to 50. Neither side had anybody of
outstanding merit.
“Peg-Leg”: I nominate this for the
strangest catch. It happened during a match between
Perth and Fremantle. Pettigrew (of Melbourne
C.C.) was batting for Perth. lie slammed a ball
hard and caught mid-on in the pit of the stomach.
The man doubled up and went right out to it on
his back. Square-leg bolted over to see if his mate
was killed, and found the ball balanced on the
fielder’s stomach. He picked it up, preparatory to
helping the player off, and the umpire hollered
“Out!” The official scorer jotted it down: Petti-
grew, caught Blink, bowled Blank, 2.
Old-time Sydney sculler G. L. Solomon
has died at St. Leonards. He was contemporary
with Trickett, W. Beach, Mick Rush, E. Laycock and
others. Like most of the watermen, on retiring be
became a publican, keeping the Gladstone Hotel at
Miller’s Point.
* * * *
In six starts at Southport recently, motor-
cyclist W. Power, of Toowoomba (Q.), wen the three
miles solo and three miles side-car championship, anil
the two-miles solo handicap, and was second once and
third twice.
Iven Boss (Central Cumberland) is
N. S. Wales’s greatest racing cyclist just now. At
Parramatta last week he won the 10-mile handicap
from scratch in 27min. 25 2-ssec. —a club record. He
is a hot thing for the coming Goulburn-Svdney spin.
The M.L. trench team now playing in
England lias been winning every whole. Football is
popular in modern France, yet against the French
Army the Maorilanders won as they liked. They have
beaten some of the greatest clubs in the United King-
dom, and there is no doubt they could give a repre-
sentative team picked from the British Armv itself
a fair game and possibly a beating. And the M.L.
team is drawn from one division !
* * * *
This year’s Queensland rink bowls cham-
pionship was a tussle between two Toovvong teams,
and the four led by Colledge defeated U. S. Moore's
team by 29-18. In the previous rounds the cham-
pions won by 36-15, 39-14 and 30-26 (semi-final),
and in last year’s final three of this year's team were
also runners-up. In Vic. the champion team is made
up of M., T. C. and W. J. Pascoe and Pennington.
Who said women are not sportsmen? The
Adelaide Ladies’ Rowing Assoc, recently battled with
s Vic. crew on Torrens Lake. During the race the
Vies: lost a screw in their rigger. The encmv pulled
up of their own accord, waited till the trouble was
fixed up. and then started all over again. They de-
served to win, and they did.
L. Oxenham (Valley) took six wickets
for 10 v. South Brisbane in the first dav’s plav of
Queensland premiership cricket final. He is about the
best all-rounder in northern cricket this year.
Botany Harriers’ opening run of the
season on Saturday spilled a small armv of athletes
upon Sydney’ suburban roadways and sandhills. First
through the tape on the home run was H. R. Turner
(Botany), ]us t. clear of J. W. Cain (East Sydney),
la r r'„ J> Fitzsimmons, H. G. Grandemange and
u - GH of Botany) close up. The runners
were on the move for 21min. 22sec.
* * * #
Kugbv League football at Sydney on
Saturday Harold Horder (Souths) scored five' tries
, bo °t pd tw ° S° al s v. Newtown. He was among
balf-dozen N. S. M ales League players who pro-
posed shifting to Queensland ; but the new residential
legulation looks like blocking him. Thompson (also
of Souths) was responsible for another six goals. For
Eastern Suburbs, Les Cubitt ('seven tries) and Wally
Messenger (four goals) were busy v. Annandale.
* * *
Vernon Ransford (Melbourne! topped the
Vm. batting averages with 115.4; “Digger” Billv
Sewait f( triton—96.l6) was next. With the ball,
• McDonald (Fitzroy) took most wickets (61
’ and J - Ironmonger (42 at 8.76) had
the best average.
Otago (M.L.) ’Varsity inter-facultv cham-
pionslup.s revfealed a promising sprinter in'Sumpter,
7„ h ° the , 100vds - GO 4-osec.), 220yds.
(24 4-ssec.), and 440yds. (54 l-ssec.). Still, 'his
times are a long way behind those of such great
„ spri nters as Maepherson and Hempton, both
of whom did the 100yds. in 9 4-ssec.
* * *
The Vic. football season opened on Satnr-
£rn ln «o he °L tho,,sands - Collingwood beat
hi- ~ " 4 ■. McCarthy (capt.) and Walton were
hefn’p s ,, su V"Ciors features. Melbourne went down
0f St ' Kilda - t]lp score being
12 goals 14 bebinds to 9 goals 4 behinds. Richmond
mv bv Ts 7 ( L W 7 and Ca, Iton smothered Fit*
rov hi 93 to 55. Graf played a great game for
atK . the sa me applies to Boromeo—no
relation of the eminent saint. There was a remark-
a’, coclcsl 111 tile Assoc, game between Norths
71 Q P ° rt ’> latter scorin g only 25 points to
the enemy’s 127.
ANTICIPATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
A lot of tilings will soon eventuate ;
And, were it not lor this aecurstkl ’flu,
I could foretell the very day and date
On which they will begin to happen too.
McMurphy’s twelve-months' overdue account
Will be discharged by means of one vast cheque.
(The change from this imperial amount
Should more than be sufficient to bedeck
r lhe household with a new supply of boots.)
Bunkke will be boldly backed to win the Cup.
The wife and I will have a few mild scoots,
And all our friends will call, and dine or sup.
Arising with the first, faint streak of dawn
I will proceed by taxi-cab to town,
And get my Sabbath wardrobe out of pawn,
Buying', as well, some odds and ends, cash down.
Nothing will then be left to do but toss
My frenzied landlord’s legal firm a cheque-—-
That, and look in upon my recent boss
And give it to him sternly in the neck.
The rent-bill paid, and scorn and hatred hurled
At him by whom I recently was sacked,
I will drive back. Thus will I stir the world
When it rolls home—the Double 1 have backed.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


With Health Everything is a
Source of Pleasure
—without it nothing else, whatever it may be, is enjoyable.
Even the other temporal blessings—a great mind, a happy
temperament —are degraded and dwarfed for want of it.
Everything should be made secondary to health.
There’s no reason why you should not be healthy—Nature
intended you to be so. .
The various organs of your body have certain functions
to perform. It is your duty to sec that these organs are
not overtaxed or run down, which will prevent them from
properly fulfilling their respective functions. For instance,
constipation, indigestion and other disorders of the system
are the direct result of your internal muscles being much
below romuil —failing in their duty.
Mv exercises pay particular attention to the muscles that
govern the action of the stomach, liver and bowels, and
quickly bring them hack to a healthy state again.
Surely you want to enjoy the best of health ? Then why
not write to-day for full particulars of mv
Postal Course of Health and Strength Culture?
This is proof of what I say:—
“Dear Sir, —I am writing to you to let you know liow
I am getting on after a month’s course of your Physical
Culture. I am feeling splendid, and must sav I am very
pleased with the result of the exercises. 1 have gained
101 b. in weight, and am feeling really well. — (Signed)
P.D.R., Dookie (Victoria).”
* Many hundreds of letters from pupils all over Australia
and New Zealand are in the same strain.
1 should like you to have my Booklet, “HEALTH ANI)
STRENGTH FROM SELF-CULTURE,” which tells about
my methods, fees, etc. Just write your name and address
across this advertisement, and send it to me, with three
penny' stamps for postage. I
REG. L. (‘Snowy’)BARER,
“The All-rountl t
Champion Athlete'
of Australia,”
23 MUNICIPAL BUILDINGS, 82a OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY.
'
n
THE COMFORT
OF POWER
■■l
. ■(
mm
St
etna
NO 2
The Racing Man
Rides
EZ
because in mighty‘Powerplus
he gets more in pace, power
and dependability than is his
lr any othe; mak
Catalogue from
Rhodes Motor Cycl. Co. Pty. Ltd.
Russel] Strec ; Melbourne
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
. SUITABLE FOR
MINING. MILLING, etc.
INCLUDING
STEAH ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
and will be POSTED UPON application TO
THE SECRETARY
Box 229 Q.P.0.,
MELBOURNE.
THE GENERAL MANAGER,
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
THE SECRETARY,
Box 220 G.P.0.,
SYDNF-Y.
■ •
IS
...
pKI ... ■-■a
□ ggg^ggjTjj
P® HBi Hr? idp®!*-* *’ l 4‘X 1=
tM 1 i- ’ ■ 3UU F*~* a Miiiijfiii as
ss.
2-ja.- i»j
..V;
2'-? Zp I
-! i ~ •
: -i
HP l
p .r-y. ;gd
PH sri: W
'v ajSL s i V..j2,'i
-*... i to**-#
. *
i 2 =••}..£ ~-;y
-•* ! *
'J- - ‘I -
as
P
: >;> •.** V
rtS,' i -'?
£ i 2■• I 2*'lL;
2}>i ~.c 5
*W- ■' *
iUSa
SfS^,
iS3K§II
v-
;
A whole storeroom on the Transveyor system, where seven men with Transveyors
do work which previously took thirty men using old-style trucks.
7 Men do Work of 30 Here.
fHE TRANSVEYOR TRUCK revolutionises the old system of storing, trucking
and handling all classes of goods in factories, warehouses and stores. The
stock is stored on wooden platforms, which are moved about without effort
with the Transveyor Truck. Or workers in factories have platforms alongside
their machines on which they stack their work.
The Transveyor means more space, more work with less labor and less effort.
You can save money by installing the Transveyor Truck —'.t soon pays for
itself. We will demonstrate the Transveyor any time without obligation.
BENSON BROTHERS LTD..
70- Liverpool Street, SYDNEY.
71- Queen’s Bridge Street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
138 Currie Street, ADELAIDE.
for Indigestion.
MULLjiuo
®ustrauai*
mk
(1W
LRowUSSk
Ballarat rttu
c
1 t
«ss
uiUbtfr
<£c>
l»'/J
King °/ Tab!? Watto
Cor\t*ains {
Like Soda f (
LiTrtiAtMG/idiA
there's. A Holiday IN Every Bottle .
Pv
f l
c
A '
*•%«
hU'
w -Va
.
r
1
“L.S.” JUDHPORES, 30/=
TAILOR-MADE TO ORDER
'T'HE Judhpore is a combination of the ideas responsible
JL for the production of Riding Breeches and Riding
Trousers of the usual design. With Judhpores you get
the fullness at the thighs and almost the same close fitting
at the knees as are features of Riding Breeches of regu-
lation pattern. No leggings are needed. The design
obviates the necessity of using laces or buttons at the
knee. The garments can be pulled on as quickly and
easily as ordinary Riding Trousers. You therefore get
also the commendable features of the latter.
There is no doubt as to the handiness of Judhpores, and
they have more than justified their great popularity in
Australia.
We quote our “L.S.” Social Judhpores in M iitary
Drills at 30/= tailor-m-. de tv order. Other materia s ai
obtainable up to £4.
SAMPLES ARE POST FREE
with tape, self-measurement form, copy of catalogue, etc. We
make to a 6-day schedule. We Pay Freight. We Guarantee
Satisfaction. Write us To-day.
Lincoln, Stuart & Go. Pty. Ltd.
Flinders Street (opposite Station), Melbourne


.
9
SPECIAL SERVICES FOR MEN.
Gentlemen's Manicure Rooms and Shoe Polishing Service on the
Ground Floor.
FARMER'S —The Store for Men*
FARMER’S
SOFT FELTS
Whether for street or business
wear, for sport or for long' service
generally, this Australian-made
Soft Felt fulfils the demand for
a stylish, well-fitting llat at a
moderate price.
5111— Soft Ft It Hat, Australian
made, brims about inches
with cut or stitched turn-over
edges. Colors: lig'ht grey, steel
grey, fawn, brown, green.
SPECIAL VALUE 14/6
5112 Soft Felt Hat, Australian
made, 2i to 2f inches, brims
with cut edges. Colors: Light,
medium and dark grey, fawn,
brown and dark green; smart
shape.
Pm CE 16/6
Farmer’s pan the carriage
thrcitghout Australia .
PERFECT GOWNING
WITHOUT FITTINGS
Such is the craft of Shave,
Master Ladies Tailors and
Dressmakers of Melbourne, that
they are able to fashion perfectly
the most elaborate gown
or the severest tailor -
suit without fittings
Visits by Shave to Sydney
and Adelaide each
half-year, and to
Brisbane yearly
SHAVE
LADIES' TAILORS ,
DRESSMAKERS
Centreway. Melbourne
To show in Sydney
shortly, Kindly enquire
Hotel Carlton for
opening dare of display.
i/vfp
,\Aeltoiiian
jSPEpALTEES
Creams
frd
Pastes
for
Cleaning S Preserving
ALL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANG LTD.
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne.
E. DROWN <§ SONS LONDON
AGENCIES • ALE - OVER • THE • WORLD
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warners
Rust Proof
Corsets
The* very naicest of Melbourne dames
seem agreed as to the burning necessity for
a Victory Hall at the Town Hall during the
Jellicoe visit. They must have it. On the
question of how to manage it they are much
at variance; therefore when they held their
first meeting at Menzies’ last week they in-
vited the recording press women to come ro
tea after the meeting had been held in high-
toned privacy. There wasn’t much to tell
the scribes officially, but Some news of the
hall-promoters’ divergent ideas leaked out.
They insist upon the title “Victory”
(although Navy men object to it) and desire,
some of them, to ensure selectness by selling
tickets only to the very best people, at a
guinea per head, champagne extra. Others
are iii favor of admitting any of the rabble
who will pay for the privilege, seeing that
they may be wanted to fill up the hall.
Also there are the comparatively public-
spirited social leaders who remark that the
proposed cost to dancers will seem rather
forbidding to young men in uniform. A.D.C.
Captain Oon'ant looms large among the
rustling dames, and appears to favor a policy
of exclusiveness tempered by financial con-
siderations.
Wifey had endured her hubby’s giddiness
for a long while, but eventually her patience
gave out, and she sent a short note to his
temporary residence stating that she was
returning with their child to England.
Hubby, a popular character, stirred by the
threat, mailed an impassioned announce-
ment of continued devotion, and when cir-
cumstances permitted he hurried home,
ignoring the proffered charms of the Other
Cat. Arrived at his once familiar address,
he found that his missus had recovered her
youth by pruning her locks in the Buster
Brown manner, and had otherwise repro-
duced a fetching replica of the dear girl he
used to know. For some time he was the
lover in the old dove-cot, devoted to two
whiskies per diem and reasonable hours,
until one day he encountered the Under-
study, who, having learned the reason of his
return to respectability, had also joined the
Buster Brown school. One hungry look at
the new vision shattered hubby’s virtuous
resolutions, and he is now obsessed by the
latest haircut, while his good lady has re-
tired to tearful privacy to invonUsome fresh
lure that will defy imitation.
The Norton Grim wades gave a bright
little Jazz party oil Friday night for their
sailor- and soldier-sons. All the choicest
buds powdered their little noses for the
revel, and Mrs. Charlie Fairbnirn brought
on her dinner-party guests. Lieut. Lionel
Grimwade will keep his brass buttons pol-
ished at the Jervis Bay salt-water college.
The late Stewart Murray, sometime of
Wool Wool, Colac, died last year. Early
this year Mrs. Murray went off to London
to see her two soldier-sons and come back
with them to Australia. It was an unfor-
tunate mission, for the voyager died the
other day in London after a short illness.
Mrs. Murray was a daughter of the late
John Manifold, of Camperdown. James,
who died recently while M.H.It. for Coran-
gamite, and the late Thomas were her
brothers.
From London :
Anybody who knows only war or pre-war London
would think we had gone mad if he dropped into
’most any cafe these days. We have got the Jazz
craze as badly as ever they had it in America, and
are dipping and idling in every direction. One
Jazz band waits with eager eyes for its fellow to
stop from exhaustion, and then it dashes into the
breach. And this at 4 o’clock on a foggy after-
noon ! Perhaps we really have gone mad.
Jo Gunn, a noticeable bachelor who man-
ages some of the Fairbairn interests, is just
about able to take notice again. ’Flu, of
course. His illness caused a stir, and tbe
sick-room was never short of flowers.
The Alex. Landale widow is rejoicing over
youngest son Gordon, just returned. He had
three years in the field as a Territorial.
The Roystone Davey pair, who have
shifted camp to Sydney, hired the Alexandra
Club drawing-room for a farewell tea on
Wednesday afternoon —all welcome, no col-
lection. Draped in grey georgette, Mrs.
Davey embraced an armful of gift bouquets.
Maggie Stirling had charge of the musical
programme and sang in her finest style.
Clubites below stared in amaze as the wail
of “Auld Lang Syne,” rendered by the whole
guest list, floated through the building. Mrs.
Davey, who was a Ilordern and belongs to
Sydney, is a cheery, popular matron who
will be missed.
The Eric Byron Moore pair (she is Mrs.
Sam Staugliton’s youngest daughter) are
steaming down from Siam again. The loss
of their only child, Dorothy Mary, has
broken the pair up greatly, and the doctors
advised a trip to Australia.
William Eades, Melbourne manager of the
X.Z. Loan and Mercantile Co., after half
a century’s hard labor left by the Ulysses
for a spell. llis one hobby is tennis; as
vice-president of the Vic. Association, he
has helped it along in many ways. It’s
an exacting game for a man in the sixties,
but Eades still plays vigorously.
Dr. Peter Bennie rises up to assert his
innocence of the premature burial inflicted
on him in this column last week. It was
his brother, Captain (Alec) Bennie, who
died—at a private hospital, by the way, not
at Caulfield.
Acting Minister for Health John McWhae,
M.L.C., recently bought Ellergerrin station,
on the Maroona line. The property con-
sists of about 8000 acres, and he has had a
new homestead built. Intentions of making
the place his home and tripping up to town
for a few days weekly have been altered—
at any rate, until the sick Air. Bowser takes
on again.
Barrister Fred Eggleston is getting home
after some years' war doings. A learned young
wig, he felt it was his duty to fight for his
country, and to that end trained a bit at
Duntroon. But when he got to Salisbury
he was detailed to do legal w v ork for the
A.I.F. at Tidworth. Hughes invited him
lo attend the Peace Conference to assist
Robert Garran, and he jumped at tli
chahce and has been at the big wrangle for
three months. His wife is awaiting him
at Orrong-road.
Carried off by ’flu a few weeks ago, Darcy
Marcotte, a young Belgian woolbuyer. Only
•‘!0 years of age, he was a director of both
Kreglinger and Forman, Ltd., and the
United Wool Scouring Co. He leaves a
young bride with an income big enough to
keep all the wolves in Siberia from the door.
r Lhe popular Parkville Brenan family are
getting ready to hoist a welcome-home flag.
Major Andy Brenan is expected by the in-
coming Kildonan Castle. For over three
years he did brilliant medical work at the
front and tracked many a strange germ lie
obtained his degree at the Melbourne
' arsity at an age when most boys are
thinking of hoops and tops. Pretty Nell
McKenna of Shepparton promised to become
Airs. Andy while war-nursing at Rouen.
Airs. Horton gave a merry party at Clive-
den to farewell Airs, de Paula, a young
matron who has been visiting here. Air. de
Paula is interested in tin somewhere about
the Ala lay States, and he and his wife are
returning by the next boat. The Bridges
dame was there; also Airs. Neil Smith,
whose hubby secretaries for the Governor.’
Airs. Herbert Power, Airs. Ledingliam and
the new League president, Airs. Baker were
also on hand.
This is an Alice
Mills portrait of the
late Mrs. Charles
Strong, who died
last week. She was
the wife of Austra-
1i a n Church Dr.
Strong, the man of
peace who lived to
see his son a war-
rior. Mrs. Strong
was a woman of
great personality
who worked hard
for her sex. It was
she who fought for
the improvement of
methods in the lock-
up. When the
gentle social re-
former first took the
matter up, women were horded with men,
and the conditions were horrible. Mrs.
Strong had a good way of helping the poor
of the parish. She always contrived that
they helped themselves. Her old women met
at a room in the church for tea and a gossip
over heaps of mending. Any drones of the
church could (for a consideration) drop then-
bundles of socks or house linen and have
them darned and mended by these happily
confabbing old ladies.
T. 11. Skelly died of ’flu last week. He
was a keen racing man and had a string of
fust horses, to amuse him when he was not
busy. His recent interests were in stock
and a Pacific frozen-meat project. His
widow is one of the smartest voung dames
of Melbourne. A great sportswoman, she
always accompanied her husband on his
trips.
With the customary display of resplen-
dent collars, cuffs and aprons, F. T. Hick-
ford was re-installed Grand Master of Vic.
Freemasons last week. On this occasion
the Masonic Hall sufficed : there have been
occasions when the Melbourne Town Hall
has been requisitioned for such ceremonies.
George Emery, Inspector-General of the
State Savings Bank, whose hobby outside
office hours is Masonry, and who was Grand
Panjandrum himself a few years ago, did
the installing husiness, leaving it to Alec
Peacock to administer all the rites in the
case of W. J. Fookes, who was re-appointed
Deputy-Grand Master. Hickford is an
amiable lawyer, who practises in Brunswick,
and has been mayor of that industrial sub-
urb. Jumping on one'of the waves churned
up by the Kyabram movement in 1902, he
was carried into the Leg. Assembly, and,
regarding Irvine as the rock of the age in
politics, camped behind him. When the wave
receded Hickford disappeared with it.
The Glaciarium had a great house on
Saturday night. General-manager Douglas
Itussell is still in charge, and “Prof” Jack-
son and Miss Thelma Earsen are coming by
the Makura to teach the latest ice waltz.
Meantime experts Langley and Spencer are
guiding the tottering steps of the novices
and showing the educated skaters some new
glides.
Lieut. Don
Hogarth, one of our
scientific soldiers, is
coining home. A
marine engineer, lie
first tried the Navy,
then transferred to
the Royal’ Engineers,
and next took a hos-
pital ship to Basra
to serve the force in
Mesopotamia. After
a good deal of that
frying-pan land, he
was picked with six
others out of 800 for
snec.il 1 duty in
England. He had
a serious running
fight with malaria,
which accompanied him from Mesopo-
tamia. Ilis last job during the war was
as second in command of aeroplane works,
having by this time been transferred to the
Royal Flying Corps. Ilis mother, Mrs. W.
P. Ilogarth, of Toorak, is now preparing
the fatted turkey for the young man’s
return.
Adelaide watches the merry-go-round :
Mrs. A\. L. Strachan, organiser and secretary of
the AY omen s Motor Detachment, and a consistent
war-worker from the beginning, has booked for
London by the Ascanius. She was one of the
original workers at the Cheer-Up Hut, and was
fa re welled there on Thursday afternoon. S'he will
have a host of S. Australians as fellow-passengers,
among them Hiss Macaulay and Miss Joanna Giles.
Professor Mitchell and his son and daughter, and
Mrs. Harvey Finlayson.
'the sum of £l2OO to establish scholarships for
the encouragement of original research in botany
and forestry is to come to the Uni. from the estate
of the late Miss K. M. Buhdev, whose will has
been proved at £lO,OOO.
The Public Library Board has decided that the
upper gallery of its Australian Court shall be
called the Stirling Gallery, after the late Professor
who was instrumental in getting most of the fine
ethnological collection housed there.
Ihe Babies’ Aid Society had its annual meeting
the other day and reported a year’s steady work.
Mis. Napier Bilks and Mrs. Harry Anderson, two of
the society’s keenest workers, were re-elected presi-
dent and lion, secretary. The annual meeting of
the Children’s Home was on the same day, when the
Butler dame announced the committee’s project of
moving from the present cramped quarters to a small
farm reasonably close to the c-ity. But £5OOO is
wanted first.
Official reports give us the cheering news that
“influenza is out of hand” in this State, and
schools and churches are being closed in the Port
district, where the trouble is worst.
Mayor Glover suggests a Peace memorial. It is
a drive along the north hank of the Torrens, right
through the city. On the south side a A ietoria
Drive was made through a central portion, and
the Botanic Park carries it on eastward; but west
from King AVilliam-road it is hardly possible to get
near the river (except at a bridge) unless one is
on foot. Glover’s suggestion is to construct the
new drive in sections, and he offers to pay £5OO
towards the cost of the first section himself.
Captain A. L. AVhitington, son of Peter, late
Commissioner of Audit, arrived home this week.
The Captain was wounded in France on October
12, 1917, and a few days later was reported killed,
hut that was exaggerated—he was a prisoner
instead. He had considerable experience in Ger-
man camps, being in the Soltau, Karlsruhe, Heidel-
berg and Clausthal prisons before his release when
the armistice was signed. In regard to treatment
he states: “There was an undercurrent of swinery
with the Germans. They did everything that was
as horrible as possible without laying themselves
open to charge." Whitington, who was admitted
to the Bar in 1911, was one of the University’s best
lacrosse players before he went away.
There was a great rustling lately in the
sassiety dovecot. Wealthy widower Walter
Howard Smith was quietly married to Miss
Brien. The bride was niece of his dead
brother’s dead wife and lived for years in
the K. E. Smith household. The Walter
Smith adopted children (orphans of Dr.
Horne, of Broken llill), who were practi-
cally brought up and mothered by the first
Mrs. Walter Smith, have shifted camp with
their housekeeper. Bridegroom Walter has
treated the young people well (there is a
boy and a daughter of the flapper agfe), con-
soling them with a new Daimler car and a
bunch of War Bonds.
Clarice Rankine, one of Maggie Stirling's
best contralto pupils, has forsaken her inns -
cal career to make an Anzac happy. The
soldier is Alec Roper, who hails from the
sheep-country at the back of Casterton.
where his family has been watching the
grass grow these many years. Ada Cross
ley, who is an aunt of the new Mrs. Roper,
proxied at the wedding with a scrumptious
bit of Brussels to top 9ft' the bridal finery.
Like to hear how lan Hamilton proposed
the health of the bride at the Craig-Birdwood
wedding? A man who was there sends a
note of it: —•
My old friend and war-comrade “Birdie” lias done
me tbe supreme honor of asking me to propose the
health of the bride. Emperors used to try to con-
solidate their realms by the iftariaye de convencnce.
Democracies pull themselves together by love-
matches. When the hundreds of old Anzacs working
at Perth and Fremantle, Kalgoorlie and Coolgardie,
hear that their General’s daughter, who worked so
hard for their wounded throughout the war, is coming
out to he one of themselves, they will all go on strike
to give her a hearty welcome. And it will be well
worth a day’s pay to get a glimpse of her. Ladies
and gentlemen, 1 give you the health of the fairest,
sweetest ambassadress of love ever sent out from the
Old Country, and I couple with it the name of her
escort, the bridegroom.
The wedding toasts were drunk at the C.
M. Buckley home at Hans Crescent, Knights-
bridge. The C. M. Bueklej’s are of the
Melbourne drapery firm, and their hospital-
ity has been one of tbe bright spots in the
leave of many Aussies. Constance —that’s
her full name—and her young man did quite
a lot of their courting in the beautiful gar-
dens surrounding the Buckley home.
The Stewart Balmains have sent the
George Fairbairns news of the birth of a
grand-daughter in London. Major and Mrs.
Balmain have two sons; the Clive Fair-
bairns also have two boys. The first grand-
daughter will be welcomed and spoilt when
she shakes a rattle here.
F. G. Dyason volunteered to act as organ-
iser to help in suppressing influenza in Vic..
and the Government closed with his offer at
once. Dyason is intensely businesslike, and
has a knack of concentrating on the nut
before him. Born and schooled at Bendigo,
he went to our Trinity Col., graduated in
Science and Engineering, and then toured
the world to watch mining methods and
study manufacturing systems. Organisa-
tion is his hobby as well as his living, and
he ought to be able to render his State
valuable service now.
To the delight of bis departmental friends.
“Billy” Dempster,‘of the Slate Audit Office,
has been nominated accountant of the
Lands Department, an appointment carry-
ing a substantial salary. Dempster burnt
much oil winning accountancy and auditing
diplomas, and was formerly understudy to
the man who did the work lie will now have
to perform. The Lands Department had
other views about tbe job, but reckoned with-
out Morrison, the Public Service Commis-
sioner.
Phil Finkelstein, tbe amiable young man
who runs the J.C.W. boost department, is
down with tbe ’flu, and the minor weeklies,
which rely upon bis tarradiddles to fill the
void in their theatrical columns, have no-
body to enlighten them regarding the black
opals stolen from Miss Carmen Starbright
when she was touring Lapland upder the
Belaseo management.
Two guineas a seat is the charge for the
gorgeous sassiety amateur show in which Wil-
liams’s “Peacock” will parade. Jean Fair-
bairn is to be It—dressed in the boastful
bird’s feathers on gold tissue wings. The
decorative Roma Clark is to be in the show,
and is 011 the committee as well. The idea
of the play is that women of all ages since
Eve have tried to put the peacock out of
business.
Governor Stanley and a gentlielp motored
in unofficially to “Going Up” on Saturday
night. The lower boxes and tbe front
stalls were packed with men. All the
women are copying the leading lady’s new
type of gown—sleeves and overdraping all
in one, heavily weighted with the new fringe.
The ballet has the best of it these cold
nights. The girls’ skirts are made of fur
capes slipped down to waist-line and held
there by faith and a' thread of gold.


tm
M
m
V m
i' " •m; f yy~
L- •«•"Jae.s
f|7
f 1: .*
-.-
ss
**r
m
~. r
■,!/ >-
/
%« Admiral 3irD. Beatty
\D.
Copyright Watson’s No. 10 Whisky.
Wcd2><jri/>
7f'hM
I IVaJ'xm 4
'Oujndeu “*
A NEW SERIES OF HISTORY MAKERS.
THE above portrait of Admiral Sir D. Beatty is one of a new series of drawing's speci-
ally executed for us by W. Jardine. Reproduced on the finest of art paper, and being entirely
free from advertising matter, they make, when framed, a charming acquisition to the home.
The complete set, consisting of Admiral Sir D. Beatty, General Sir
Douglas Haig', General Sir W. Birdwood, General Sir W.
Robertson, General Foch, Vice-Admiral Sir F. C. D.
Sturd ee, will be sent to any address on receipt of six penny (Commonwealth)
stamps. As the production is limited, we advise you to write and secure a set immediately to
JAMES WATSON & CO. LTD., 26 King Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
/45 %{
c
W//,/
F
/4
%f
%
II
/^l
¥
✓
%
1
&
’ i:
w///


Under
Royal
Warrant
To H.M.
Kind
George V
CHAMPAGNE
CHAMPAGNE
Qjarlesllcidsiecfc
REIMS
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
°„ i c;
,-ca Sydney
89lG eor *« t S Sydney
100 »}f t g B t?>y*fS o n’» poin
sas&gss®-
Qn»y> t &ge^
y""" s£“«-»
THE
BRAND of QUALITY.
preserving
TRADE
MARK
REGISTERED
PACKtO
yl\^
Open
ik
POLISH
FOR
LINOS, WOOD FLOORS, etc.
There is ONLY ONE “NUCCET,”
Refuse Just as Good.
Open to Discussion.
TT is an open question as to whether the Queen of
Sheba wwe Silk Gloves on the occasion of her
famous visit to King Solomon.
The Australian lady of to-day not only enhanc -
her charms bv wearing a Glove’ of Silk, but, being
also possessed of good sense, she buys only those
Gloves that carry the maker's guarantee.
Every’ pair of
VANITY FAIR
SILK GLOVES
contains the following* guarantee:—
HERE I I IS :
“If these Gloves wear through at the finger
tips any time before they are washed, and
before the rest of the Glove has had
reasonable wear, we will, upon receipt of
this ticket and your Gloves, replace them
with a new Pair.”
The Australian Agent for the Mill is personally re-
sponsible to the merchant for his fulfilment of this
Guarantee.
Schuylkill Silk Mills, Reading, Pa., Ii.S.A.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Talking of the ex-Olown Prince adding
wife-beating to his other attractions. A
Sydney woman who saw Cecile, the walloped
lady, in Berlin the year before the war, de-
scribes her as looking like a high-class Parisi-
enne, very pretty and vivacious. She had
an immense dowry. The vindictive nature
of the Ilohenzollern came out strongly in
(he Kaiser when he obliterated his mother’s
portrait wherever possible. (She was,
you’ll remember, the eldest offspring of late
Queen Vic.) His hostility is said by the
Berlihese to be not so much political as
domestic. She married her chamberlain
soon after the death of her 90-days
emperor. This episode is not commonly
known. The then young Kaiser turned
image-breaker, portrait-eraser and step-
father-banislier with great fury. To give
Him a stepfather ! Sacrilege !
Most Australians who have visited Berlin
will recall the beautiful church built by the
Kaiser, wherein his Family marches on the
walls in frescoed procession. The portraits
are life-size. There are the old Emperor
Fred. William with his grey side-levers.
His son—the short-reigned Frederick—the
Kaiser, the Crown Rabbit, all wth their
respective consorts, except the Kaiser’s
father. His consort is missing from the
painted dado of royalties.
At her aunt’s home, Crow’s Nest House,
on an evening last week, Hope Colley married
her soldier boy, Lieut. Roy E. Forrest. Philip
Morton, who was her father’s oldest friend,
handed her over to the keeping of her young
man. and Padre A. J. Wade drew up the
contract note. The wedding dress was of
soft white satin, and trailed a beautiful tulle
nnd lace train lent by Mrs. Roy Buckland.
Ike bouquet was mainly orchids and pink car-
nations. Dark-haired Dulcie Colley and
tair-lockcd Eileen Forrest bridesmaided in
pale pink, and the pale-blue touches on their
frocks were matched by armsful of blue del-
phiniums. Brothers-in-arms Douglas Levy
(Irish Guards) and Captain Ferguson sup-
ported the bridegroom. The bride’s mother,
graceful and smiling in black, helped Dame
i* ; \ r hostess the houseful of guests ; and
while girl friends were helping the bride to
uplift her veil and snuggle into the pink
I rock and cloak in which she went away, the
latest thing in dances was stepped out fore-
most among the light o’ foot being Mrs. Roy
Buckland in gold tissue and Mrs. Sep Levy
in a little black velvet frock and a large
black velvet hat. r Fhe bridegroom’s mother is
one of the Eastwood Terrys, and the bride’s
mother comes from the South Coast Whit-
tmgham family, notorious for good looks.
Captain Arnold Weinholt, D. 5.0., M.C.
married best-girl Enid Sydney Jones in the
quietest possible way at St. Philip’s last
week. Besides Canon Bellingham there
were present to hear the vows only two or
three intimate Queensland friends. Next
afternoon, in Queensland, Lorna Wil-
liams, whose family has been con-
nected with the Weinholt properties
tor many years, was married at the little
* - 011 A* 1 ® big Darling Downs estate
to Edwin McKenzie, whose late dad used
to manage banks in Queensland. For honey-
moon, the Edwin McKenzies are motoring
as the mood takes them in the lady’s pet car.
Enid Sydney Jones had lots of interrnp-
ttons before she finally married her captain
hirst she was caught in Melbourne by ’flu
restrictions, so the finery was sent on to
Brisbane. Then in Sydney both she and her
mother caught the sickness. Weinholt dashed
down from Q land, and the very first moment
the doctor declared her germ-free the pretty
£irl hooked herself into a cream georgette
and nattier blue frock, pinned a blue satin
hat on her head, and wedded her warrior
before anything else could happen.
This week has been a succession of rubber-
tyred alliances. One wedding which attracted
huge audience was that of widower Jack
Bettmgton to Alice Milson, fair, fresh and
twenty. All Saints’, hoard the
vows, and the bride—white satin and tulle
and cream-tinted roses—was followed up the
aisle by three maids in powder-blue and large
black velvet hats tied under the chin. Bride-
groom s son Reginald was the groomsman
Lots of money on both sides, and a glittering
heap of. presents to bride from groom in
which motor-cars and diamonds are men-
tioned in the most casual way.
Arthur Blaxland, the young Singleton
squatter who married Miss Beryl Moses last
week, belongs to one of the oldest families
in Australia. John Blaxland arrived here
about 110 years ago in his own ship, on
board of which were his family and farming
implements. Three days after he landed he
had a violent row with Bligh, the Governor,
and thereafter he had a fresh one every time
they met. Bligh had a genius for this
sort of thing. After Bligh was ousted
Blaxland had a row with liis successor,
Macarthur, over a cow. Or, again, it might
have been a bullock. The pioneers were
strong on disputes of every kind. Blax-
land, Lawson and Wentworth all have
numerous descendants in N. S. Wales. The
“best man” at the most recent Blaxland
wedding was the 'groom’s cousin Wilfrid,
lie has been for years with the Perpetual
Trustee Co., and left it the other day to
start business on his own account. Miss
Moses belongs to the eminent cricketing
family.
Teddy Tillock, who died last week of
influenza, was one of the most popular bache-
lors in iiis Sydney set —the big See-llordern
one. He was a generous and cheery host and
a keen motorist. He had lived all his life
with liis people, and for a good many years
of it their home was at Darling Point.
Mrs. James Ashton, who left for England
just before the signing of the armistice, has
been working at Boulogne for the Y.M.C.A.
She will leave England for home on the
loth.
If you don’t hap-
pen to know this
face, ask any Digger
who was ever nursed
and petted at Bishop’s
Knoll. When the
war started a West-
ralian squatter
nained B u s h
Robert E. Bush—
found himself with
a house far bigger
than he needed in
delightful grounds
near Bristol. He
offered not only to
fix up the big place
as a hospital, but to
bear every expense
of maintaining it.
Of course this was
accepted, and for a while Bishop’s Knoll
housed Old Contemptibles. But when the
Digger went to France it was reckoned a
fair thing to let Australians have the benefit
of this Australian’s munificence ; and so for
three years the Knoll has been a nursing home
for men of “the Commandant’s” own country.
For this big white man did more than supply
the hospital and the wherewithal to keep
it going. He and his wife managed it—-
not in the drawing-room manner, but with
hard work, in the kitchen mostly. A section
of the Australian editors who went to
Europe last year tripped to Bishop’s Knoll,
and if you took a vote among them to decide
which of the many ex-Australians who did
great things for the boys should be awarded
the_ First Order of Merit, you would find a
majority cast for this splendid, almost un-
known Westralian Bush. Can't we do
something to permanently recognise the ser-
vices of such people?
The “Y. Emma” still finds lots of work to
do in France and Belgium. Military dis-
cipline is relaxed and means for plenty of
mischief are at hand ; and those who want
to get the boys home in good condition {ire
hard put to it to provide them with clean,
healthy recreation. So Y.M.C.A. money is
still flowing out; and there are calls also dur-
ing “repatriation” at home. The Red
Triangle, reckons if will want £280,000 in
the next 12 months ; and—well, you know :
it can't get it unless somebody gives it.
It isn’t such a far step as some people
think from our own Art Societies’ shows to
the Royal Academy, as witness the many
Australian names among the staid British
institution’s last-hung list. Of these Bessie
Hibson calls up a memory of the dreamy-eyed
Brisbane girl whose miniature work was" so
often on view in the Queensland Art
Society’s shows. Just before the war she
set out for London. Academy recognition
came almost immediately, and she has been
a constant liangee ever since. A. H. Full-
wood used to regulate his studio hours by
the Mosman ferry time-tables; he lived
among the red roofs with his wife, one of the
artistic Newmans, until his South Coast
scenes made England and the Continent
possible. Jimmy Quinn, now married to a
little French girl, retains the true eye and
the fiery temper that were beloved of the
Impasse Robiquet, where he and our own
J. S. Watkins studioed together. In those
days Jimmy was a student of .Tulien’s, and
that master considered the red-haired Irish-
Victorian his most gifted pupil. Quinn’s
first big commission was a portrait of the
wife of the then Japanese ambassador in
London. He is one of the moderns, and
shows regularly at the New English Art
Club, whose exhibitions have a brilliancy
unknown to the Loyal Academy. George
Coates, though his work is among the best,
is still doubtful whether he shouldn’t have
taken the advice of his pugilist friend to go
into the ring and chuck art. “You can use
your lists, George; but I’m d —d if your
pictures look like anything on earth.” Isaac
Cohen is a Melbourne scholarship man
whose friends down under are watching with
special interest. Strangely, Long and Lam-
bert, two of our most noted men, are not
in the list.
Iteg. Gowing is expected back home in a
fortnight: he is on the Warwickshire. It is
3£ years since, feeling that he simply had
to do his bit, he left the brothers’ big busi-
ness in Sydney and helped “Bob” Anderson
straighten out the business side of the
A.I.F. in Egypt. Thence he went on to
London, and ever since has been the hard-
working major in charge of the Contracts-
branch at Ilorseferry-road. But it took a
lot of argument to keep him where he could
do the most good for the army. He wanted
to cross the Channel.
The Kelvedon Playfairs had a wedding in
their family last month, but it eventuated in
China, where Dr. Morrison conies from. All
Saints’ Church, Tientsin, was a bower of
palms and flowering plants when Thelma,
youngest bud of Mrs. T. A. Playfair, made
the usual promises to George Lyon Mac-
kenzie, of the Hong Kong and Shanghai
Bank. The bride was white softness from
veil to shoes, and Lorna Way, who held all
the bridesmaid honors, wore a frock as softly
pink as the inside of a shell. Brother-in-
law Captain J. P. Vaclion led the bride to
the altar steps, and sister Mrs. Vachon
hostessed the wedding party at the bank
house.
Colonel and Mrs. Owen are off to Eng-
land with a harvest of gifts showered on
them by the 3rd Battalion Comforts Fund
last week. Soldiers and fellow-workers and
friends were the donors, and the presents
ranged from socks to travelling bags.
Justice Edmunds has his bright-faced
daughter Jean, 8.A., for his new associate.
The Edmunds girls are keen sportswomen
and strong surfers.
Young Elkington, who married “Bunty”
and has since decided to settle £6OO a year
on her, was at last advices rowing in the
Trinity Hall eights, and hoping that the selec-
tor’s eye was on him for the big event. The
youngster (lie’s little more) is now swatting
economics, and talks of an Egyptian tour
after his exam. His mother is still in the
south of France.
Mrs. Pauline Deane, '.vujo\v of a
bank man, writing from New' York,' says
“many Sydney girls are here and congenially
employed. I have gone into Wanamaker’s
Store and am working in the beauty parlor.
Lose Gumming is in the interior decoration
department.” In San Francisco Mrs. Deane
met Ola Humphrey, looking very elegant and
fashionplatisli. She and her mother have a
suite at the Saint Francis, and Ola is called
Princess. She has done much film-plav
work.
Mr. Huber, Con-
sul for the Nether-
lands, is leaving this
week for his home-
land. In spite of his
youthful looks he
is the patriarch
among all the con-
suls sent from over-
seas to Australia; he
has been here ex-
actly seven years,
and is now due for
a year’s holiday.
Born at the Hague,
lie was euucated for
the diplomatic ser-
vice, and when very
young was appointed
Consul at Constan-
tinople. From there
lie went to Singapore, and, after some years,
to London. While in Great Britain Huber
met the Marquis of Lansdowne, who
immensely interested him in Australian
affairs—so much so that soon after he had
returned to Holland on furlough he had an
Australian appointment in his pocket.
Altnough rapidly coming into prominence
in Art, commerce and politics, the women of
the Netherlands have not yet got the vote ;
but it is on the horizon, and all big
and little _ political parties agree that the
time is ripe for the franchise to be ex-
tended. There are advanced women-thinkers
at the Hague, but as yet there has been no
Dutch Sylvia Pankhurst. Queen Wilhemina
is a great power in her country, and is
Keenly interested in the movement for flie
betterment of women. She and her 10-year-
old daughter, Juliana, are much beloved, and
alter the big unrest of 1918 enthusiastic
scenes were witnessed whenever they
appeared in the streets.
Mr. Huber, while in Australia, has written
acres to the Netherlands, especially about
tne great possibilities for trading between
this country and the Dutch East Indies. His
successor, Mr. Teppema, who was for five
years Vice-Consul in Melbourne, has a
charming Australian wife, who was Carmen
Delprat. Huber himself is a bachelor—or
else a bigamist: he is married to his job and
to golf.
The .Arthur Allens had a motoring party
to their Port Hacking place on Sunday.
The feature of these entertainments is
the food supply, the whole of which is at-
tended to personally by Mr. Allen himself.
He is a champion food-controller in any
sphere where the victuals are unrationed.
The cottage is beautifully situated, looking
over the bay, and it is said to have housed
moie honeymoon couples than any other pri-
vate dwelling in or near Sydney. There was a
time, eight or 10 years ago, when a young
Society couple could hardly be considered
respectably married if they had not put in a
week or 10 days at Moonbara after the cere-
mony.
The Castles sisters, Amy and Dolly,
stepped off the Ventura last week, costumed
and small-hatted, and dashed to the Aus-
tralia for sustenance before they moved off
to Melbourne in the evening’s express. The
younger sister is giving up her profession
and intends to settle into domesticity with
her eye-doctor, Major Finn.
Brisbane’s hatful:—
Almost all the patriotic workers are disbanding.
Last Monday, at the Hotel Cecil, Mrs. William
Aplin handed tea to the “Monday sewers” of the
Bananaland Patriotic Fund. There were about
30 guests.
The Victory Ball in the Exhibition Hall on Satur-
day night was the most brilliant affair seen in
Brisbane for years. A number of debs, made
their bow, and wounded soldiers and war nurses sat
in the galleries on either side of the organ. In
the centre of the stage was a tableau of Peace, with a
rising sun of chrysanthemums at her feet and live
doves tethered round her. When all was over it
was discovered that the best wraps had vanished
out of both dressing-rooms. Several shivering
damsels departed angrily, after refusing to wear
the dilapidated garments left in place of their new
coats.
Two weddings. One was that of Millicent Smith,
daughter of H. F. Smith, of Brisbane, to Lewis It.
Strang, of Melbourne. This bride wore ivory
georgette over duchesse satin, trimmed with silver
lace and pink silk roses. Sisters Ruby and Beryl
were bridesmaids. The other concerned Phyllis Pel-
ham Clayton and George Armstrong, of Townsville.
The bride is a popular Brisbane girl.
The 2nd Light Horse, the first complete Banana-
land unit to return, was welcomed home this week.
On Thursday night an officers’ re-union dinner
was eaten at Lennon’s.
The Christian Brothers have attained their
(golden Jubilee in Australasia, and from
Charters Towers to Ivalgoorlie their schools
stand a monument to their persistence and
the excellent teaching of the Brotherhood.
Now the Brothers wish to mark their Jubilee
by wiping out the debt on their training
college at Stratlifield, and old pupils through-
out the Commonwealth are rallying round
them and mopping up tickets for the Art
Union which is the heavy artillery of the
campaign. The first prize is a £lOOO War
Bond; after that come motor-bikes, pianos,
sewing-machines and nearly everything else
that ever entered a pantechnicon.
Miss Boake, sister of the late Bareroft.
has a decent Government billet in Pretoria.
S Africa. Her spare time is spent in writ-
ing picture-plays, which she intends to bring
to Sydney some day in the hope of placing
them. The sister of such a brother should
surely write good stuff.
The Lauders, who came to Sydney plain
Mr. and Mrs. and left it with a title, are a
sonsy pair. The lady cheered up Sydney
by the radiance of her sapphire-blue stoek-
mgette costume and the joyousness of the
feather in her toque. It was as pink as the
breast of a galah.
Harry Lauder’s wife is an expert gardener.
On their last visit to Maoriland she spent
most ot her time at Mrs. Carev Hill’s lovely
seaside home at Clifton, Christchurch, which
adjoins the Kinseys’ Alpine garden; together
these two make one of the show places of
the Dominion. Mrs. Lauder took several
plants from the Carey Hills’ garden, and she
says they are blooming happily at the “cot-
tage” in Scotland. A photograph of th •
Lauder cottage makes Melbourne Government
House look like a lean-to.
Mrs. Cecil Hordern works round the clock
and looks none the worse for it. 'Flu has
gone light through the Graythwaite Soldiers'
Home, and 17 of the nurses are down with
it- Ib between fighting this enemy, Mrs.
Hordern is busy’ furnishing the new nurses’
home next door.
At the moment the G. \V. Grays are
poised in Sydney 7 ready to dart back to their
Brisbane home. On the wing, as it were,
they are dining and being dined by the
numerous relations of both branches of the
new alliance.


an
m
Vft
is
m
.t'.y-'t
V"*
*■<
J«!
VAX
titw
MS
3*i ifv*
til*.
ZfZ
V,*-*:->'
&
9-
W'
v-r
iwiwii
f>'i* s^vs.'TJlk
(. r^r-\vY^F?'(
r>'h r^V^^Psj
r3v
mm
%
-w.iys
at*
-?V
U »f
IWM
(AJS**?
K-iv-v:-^:
a&S
: ; mc
•if
?A
W!
<&¥#
£
*',-«!v«;.,ii'3? *»a
w?*k> i;y. > &VT&
SSretfg&ftfc?
RSI
!/: V v
«*&
o
.
r/MW
#7 ,-
So
OT'jSWS V ■'"% •■■ i
&t*f*-Ss4!, Vi
M'-J-V ’
lw
I®
CS
?Ss
»,, s
m
m
m.%
?<
2
- '•!
fii
it ij
I &Vi ;.■>' •- ■•• •" •' ••' •'
V.
, v.
'■ V- •*. »'. • «2V
m.
VS?
*NS*
svf
51#
Ml
* _
frgyff&jyS
U,,.
!
if
fesgiigN
&:-.-
•*•'*■ **••■-iV•=>?' i£
§ SJ!^S^SSSSsS®fisg^s?ssfcfc
PV^X
i
: :1M
i^«^-
fi«
ar^gg:
«;a v - x
s
wa»»
■
;£>sy
. ..Wj.'W
W!
r^r.
irVV'
The Car of Quality.
Drive the “85 Four”
A car of great beauty and strength—a car of absolutely
dependable performance, its great power simply controlled.
With the reserve force of the big car, this Overland has
all the flexibility of a light one.
To these advantages, add riding comfort Large wheels,
big tyres, cantilever springs, assure smoothness of transit, un-
usual for cars of its size.
It has a high tension magneto. It is completely equipped.
It is economical to maintain.
You will be proud of this Overland, proud of how it looks,
proud of what it does. Because of our great production you
can drive it with comfort that is financial as well as physical
We know of no car that compares with it in value.
IMMEDIATE
DELIVERY.
Australian
Distributors
GARRATTS LTD., Sydney
[KELLOW-FALKINER PTY. LTD , Melbourne
AUTO-CARS LTD., Adelaide
EAGER & SON, Brisbane
ANDERSON &. ADAMS LTD., Perth
H. G. HEATHORNE & CO. LTD., Hobart.
'A. HATRICK &. CO., Wanganui, N.Z.
N.Z. FARMERS' CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION,
Christchurch. N.Z.
WILLYS-O VERL AND,
Toledo, Ohio, U. At
1763


m
A SURE way to
identify a
good Collar
is to took for the
name PE LA CO on
it. When you find
that mark of
quality your collar-
troubles are over.
The shape illus-
Irated is the
"Napier." It com-
bines comfort with
a snappiness of style that is
appreciated by men of taste.
Good Mercers everywhere sett Pe/aco
Collars , Shirts and Pyjamas.
COLLARS
Made in A usti aha
"THERE'S MONEY IN THE PEN."
<£gl9
The above
is tlie title
of our book-
let, which
te]ls about
the possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
bv HARRY J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist. '
It explains the
difference between
learning to COPY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains, in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three i
penny stamps I
to-day for a
fopy of this
l>ool;let
“THERM'S
MONEY
IN
THE
PEN.”
the harry j. weston
Postal School of Drawing
120 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY.
R AGE^S/4S.IICOR S
TO 's^s\
MIjELBOURtE
/should write and book aecom'
' modation at the Queen’s Arms.
Its homely atmosphere, excel-
lent cuisine and central situa-
tion make it THE ideal hotel
for the racing' man.
Tariff bv the dav, 10 ’6.
QUEEN’S ARMS HOTEL
Or. Swanston St. & Flinders
Lane, Melb. Claude R. Kerr,
Proprietor. ,
Esterbrook’s Pens.
,is so good but there may be a better.
The thousands of folk who like our Relief Pen might
do well to. write us for a sample of our Xo. 908.
Worth a trial, and costs you nothing.
ESTERBROOK, Box 98 G.P.0., Sydney.
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Clover Co. Inc.,
113 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
c tates. 3d.
mm
m
I
■
A TEXAS SADDLE
Made by WALTHER 8 STEVENSON LTD
This Saddle is one of the latest addi-
tions to our big list of High-class
Saddle Creations. It is made in brown
leather, the seat and cantle being in
one piece of heavy leather. The skirts
are lined with felt, and the stirrup
leathers are 2] in. wide, with broad
fenders. It is fitted with two cord
giiths or cinchas and wooden stirrups.
£B/15/-
Freight Free for Cash with Order to any Port
or Station on the N S W. Railway System.
K’burra Stockwhips
THERE
ARE
NO
BETTER
PRICES OF STOCK THONGS.
7ft. Bft. 9ft.
12-plait, 14/- 16/- 18/-
lfl-plait, 17/- 19/6 22/-
'soae. woe a.!
HANDLES TO MATCH, 16-plait, 13/6; 24-plait, 15/6.
If for 9ft. thongs, add 1/6 for loading. Post free.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOGUE.
130 RAGES OF INTEREST TO EVERY
HORSEOWNER. SPECIAL FREIGHT
TERMS TO OTHER STATES.
WALTHER & STEVENSON LTD.
SADDLERS,
393 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Hotel c/e Luxe.
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
The Healthiest arul most Beautiful Spot on
the Harbor. As warm in Winter as the South
of France.
Recommended by the Minister for Health and
the Medical Faculty. Finest Cuisine. Hot
and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Beautiful Beaches,
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths,
Fishing.
Tariff, from 12/G per day, or
£3/10/- per week.
Tels.: Y3OOl, 3002. >
Apply Manager.
Pocket Stock-knife— made by Harrison Bros. &
Howson, Sheffield, Eng. Three stronsr blades (ski lining,
castrating and foot-rot). Best quality steel.. Ifl
Always gives satisfaction. POST FREE
Manufacturers’ Selling Agency, 8 Spring St., Sydney.
FbRLICKS
.MALTED
-MILK
IK
IKVN-'t*;
SJgwefiiA
\
sepsl
ip.vp.r <
The Ideal Food-
Drink(Milk,Wheat,'
and Malt). Keeps'
for years and never
becomes stale or loses
any of its admirable
qualities. It is made
in a moment, any-j
where. Only waterl
is needed. In hot climates it is
l invaluable. A
No Shortage. Ample Supplies.
GAPILLARINE
Grows
Moustaches
Quickly!
Hundreds who have used it testify to its
genuineness and efficacy as a moustache-
grower. Rub it well into the roots, and note
its quick results. Send for a Jai - to-day.
PRICE 10/C JAR—POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
Tenders.
t \ TIJE MATTER OF THE GREENFINCH
i PROPRIETARY GOLD-MINE, NO LIABILITY,
iN LIQUIDATION.
SALE OF LEASES, MACHINERY, PLANT,
BUILDINGS AND DWELLING HOUSE.
TENDERS are invited for the Purchase of the
Leases, Machinery, Plant, Buildings and Dwelling
House belonging to this Company, and situate at
Westonia, Western Australia.
The Tenders may be for the whole in one lot or in
the alternative for—
(a) The lease known as the “Recovery Lease,”
containing 24 Acres.
(b) The Liquidators’ interest (if any) in the
Advance Lease, containing 24 Acres.
(c) The whole of the Machinery, Plant and Buildings,
except the l adders in Shaft.
(d) The Manager's Dwelling House.
Inventories of the Machinery, Plant, etc., may be
obtained from Mr. W. R. Grant on the mine at
Westonia, also from the Liquidator.
Tenders will be received up to 12 o’clock on
Wednesday, the 21st May, 1919, at the Offices of the
Liquidator, and must be accompanied by a deposit of
25 per cent, of the amount of Tender.
No Tender will be necessarily accepted.
J. L. ANDREWS, Liquidator,
43-46 Royal Exchange, Adelaide.
23rd April, 1919.
I'or Sale.
"second-hand
FARM MACHINERY
For Sale.
One Four-wheeled “BIG-FOUR” Oil
Tractor, powered with 60 brake-horsepower 4-
eylinder Oil Engine, complete, and in first-class
condition.
One “HOLT” Caterpillar Oil Tractor,
powered with 60 h.p. 4-eylinder Oil Engine. Prac-
tically new.
One 20 brake-horsepower “BLACK-
STONE” Kerosene Engine, complete, in
good order.
Inspection can be arranged.
For full particulars and prices, applv
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LIMITED,
Adelaide, Melbourne or Sydney.
Overseas buying agency
MANAGER • * Marry ft Mart
(Late" Daily MaifOverseas Buy 109 Agency;
NOTE ADDRESS
64, HAYMARKET, LONDON
Will buy anything for you, save time
and money, and make no charge for
its service and 20 years’ expert know-
ledge of London markets.
Personal, Home or Business Pur-
chases —no order is too small. Quota-
tions an 1 Catalogues (when obtainable)
furnished free. Write for free Booklet.
Tile 0.8. A. (W. H. GORE & CO.), 64, Hayja \rkst, Loadon, S.W. Cables “ Osbuyacy, Lon-ion.’'
“I’ve Struck It—
The Real Thine in Razors. Gets through the job
in a quarter the time, and makes the business a
pleasure. The ‘PLUM'S’ the Razor for me.”
THE “PLUM” RAZOR.
PRICE 10/G—POST FREE.
IV e keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/C.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
The above makes a handsome present.
All the above Post Free. Send for our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over SO pears.
Tried and Trusted
The “PLUM
Razor.
»
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except oj a hostile character ) will be
taken oj communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. bo
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted: and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Sirnol: Read it again. It was Winter’s father
who married the Cox lady... .C.A.F.: Thanks; but
the list was printed here some time ag0.... S.W.:
Thank you. And a good Digger’s paper it is ...
F. : Much obliged. . ..N. I.: Interesting; but we
don’t reprint....Duhvich Hill: August 15, 1904,
fell on a Monday.... Eve: Now, what was the name
of that family, and when did this extraordinary
proceeding on the policeman's part take place?
Also where? Will you accompany a Bulletin
representative to police headquarters and tell your
story there?. .. .Satan: You haven’t given us your
name.... Kid M.: It is miles and miles away....
B.D. • “Eternity” is nowhere near.... J.H.T.: “Miss
Vernon” doesn’t move 115....C.C. : “Vigil” not for
us C.F.N.: No u5e....T.0.: The bath yarn wants
better telling... .W.R.D.: We’ve seen worse first
attempts Aurelius: Doesn’t get near
W.J.K.: Find something to write about J.R.:
Keep on, if that’s how you feci about it; but you’ve
a long way to travel... .P.K.8.3: Make up your
mind whether you are writing prose or verse. .. .
N.M.W.: Wants better handling... .P. 0.: “Trooper
Oliphant” niisses ; but you might tell a yarn if you
took pains... .H.C.D.: Sorry; must go back....
G. : Can”; make head or tail of “The Reef.”....
H. : Written frequently during the war.. ...Hank :>
Not enough interest... .C.C.K.: No grip or force
about the things.... M.J. A. (probably): As much of
it as we can read is no good. .. . A.McM.: No re-
semblance to verse... .Woodicus: A bit too crude
and sudden.... D.D.: “Invitation” is no use. Can't
you use a name that sounds less like that of a well-
known writer ?.... Brolga: “The Return” doesn't
miss by much.... A.D.: No use to 115....D.8. :
“Quick and Dead” is too rambling... .Mainshaft:
But why not? The U.S. President doesn’t have to
look exclusively to the politicians for his executive
heads....J.A.W.: That's a cheerful bit: —
Who doth not loathe a wowser grim ?
That sombre, cheerless man,
Who from a world with so much pain
All lealtoy joy would ban.
IIo! Wowsers who doth prate and squeak
Of “wickedness” and “sin,”
Please take yourselves to the nearest creek.
Say your prayers, and throw yourselves in!
I.M.D.: One may do. . . .W.11.H.T. (probably):
Not up. . . .J.C.: A bit too rugged. It wanted finer
detail to make it look convincing. ... Warradulla:
Not enough work in it... . N. 11.: Can’t find any
“Thoughts” there. . . .Matong: No ; too frail. .. .
Bell: Very crude verse, .. .Ellensville: Wooden-
legged verses with the rhymes about 20ft. apart....
J.P.: We don't publish novels. Read the paper and
see what we print. Then send us better. We’re
hungry for it. . . .A.H.8.: You don’t get any color
or life into it. .. . 5.A.8.: The material is there, but
the skill is lacking. Go on. .. .C.8.J.: Doesn’t say
enough T.P.: That Kaiser stuff is quite hopeless.
A. : Too crude.. .-.G.D.M., Jr.: Old lame stuff
that has been done to death for 50 years.... Trion:
There is feeling in it; but it is too slight... .Felix
B. : Verse quite rotten.... Oxo: Thin ideas, poor
verse. .. .G.M.: Nothing at all in the “Watson's
Bay” stuff.... Dag: Can we find a place for it?
Certainly. It's gone there... .T.N.W.: No use....
W.M.: Sounds like obituary verse from the morning
papers. ...D.P.M.: Don’t care for them. . . .E.D.:
Pretty ideas, but not our sort and not well handled.
.. . .A.8.C.: Sorry ; “Contrast” not up. . . ..T.S.: Not
up. Can’t trace old stuff when you give no names
and dates... .V.E.L.: Nice verse, but it doesn’t get
to anything. .. .W.H.8.: It isn’t a “Briton’s welcome
word.”... . 8.A.: “The Girl in the Cafd ’ works to
too cheap a point — .WE.B.: Melodrama. .. .M.M.:
“The Mirror” bumps in places. “The Cathedral '
not- interesting Johno: Beyond the fact that Mr.
Brown was heavy, drunk and very' sleepy there isn’t
much there. .. .E.D.: We don't reprint. .. ..J.II. :
’ Nice lines in “Home,” but the general result is
disappointing J.L.S.: Not bright enough....
L. and 8.5.: Not worth a brick. 'You make a very
good brick, by the way Galong: No, you are
doing the barking at the foot of the wrong vegetable.
This paper doesn’t disapprove of wheat-growing. It
only says that we shouldn’t turn wheat into a fetich,
and declares that, except in favored places, wheat-
growing at Australian wage-rates to supply foreign
artisans so far distant from the farm that at least
one-third of the value is swallowed by freights,
agency, etc., doesn’t pay. Wherefore, partly in the
interests of wheat-growing and the farmer, The B.
is busy about two things: (1) by High Protection it
wants to shift the artisan population to Australia;
and (2) by co-operation it wants to reduce the pre-
sent outrageous charges (including charges for bags)
which the farmer lias to carry... .Her ftiish: When
claiming for pars, don't re-type your printed con-
tribution. C'uf it out or otherwise identify it, and
send to accountant, indicating date, page and
column.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
COURESI’ONDENTS.
G.L.: It. isn’t a bright adaptation of the old boot
idea.... W.M.J.: Winter’s on, the wav, so vour
wooden figures were chopped up and added to the
stack... .J.M.W.: Not interesting. .. .8..J.C.: If you
ever strike another gag of that sort send it, anony-
mously, to some struggling vaudevillain G.C.W.:
Are they supposed to be patter comedians or real
people ?.... Harold C.: Sorry to blast your hopes, but
the boy is now on his way with a plug of gelignite.
... W.D.: It's all off the line C.M.8.: Early
experiments in pencil condemned R.W.McH.: The
office steam-roller went over it.
Senator Pearee is mentioned as successor
to High Commissioner Andy Fisher in
London. If that job comes off it will be
more than high—Pearce will be known as
the hold-your-nose Commissioner.
?* HE Bulletin’s mention
(13/o/19) of A. G. Huie. the ener-
getic Freetrader, brings to mv mind
his evidence before the Inter-State Com-
mission when the lock industry was
under discussion. He said that there
was only one factory, and that in Launceston,
employing two men and a boy. Of course
he - Oh. no, I won’t say it; but, any-
w-ay, the said factory then had nine em-
ployees, and his statement that it wasn’t
worth protecting wasn’t worth much, because
the same f’otory now has over 30 hands and
w’lll poss.bly double the number within 12
months. Ask some of the Government De-
partments what they would have paid for
locks if the OHuie-despised factory had not
been working! Its price-list is irrefutable
-.'l idence that local trading pays every w T av.


Shipping. _ _
ORIENT LINE
XeW find LtixUriotis Steamers all fitted
xVith Wireless Telegraphy- Cobwes-de-
lAixe. Staterdoihs with bedstends an
private l3athrooiti§.
Singie-betth ttodiiis.
idigfjtric Lifts aiid Laundries.
For all iufdriiia.titlh regarding sailing
te§; aiid First-, Second- and Third-class
dates,
fares,
ORIENT
TeL—fcity *246,
4247;
4310.
Apn’ •
S. N. CO., Ltd.,
2; 4, 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
via
the Allied Route,
By way of
South Sen Islands,
Hoiiol ulu*-“S»n Francisco,
ToSemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes —Great CitifeS;
NEXT SAILING, JUNE 4,
SONOMA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Telephone: City 2282. 44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
bunking, Public Companies. Ac.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The lion. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman); WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A.; Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP,
K.C.M.G.; Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Gllice: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
firanches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
agents throughout the world,
TRANSACTS All USUAI. BANKING DUStNESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to tiie Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
P.lid-up Capital .. .. .. 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 247,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
lion. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Millie, Esq.; W. 11. Hart, Esq.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
I1ICAI) OM ICIS - BRISBANE
.branches—London, .Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queen si a ml.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, Bouth Africa, China, the East
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £14,^,000
Directors: MARK SHELDON, Esq., Chairman;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LLI). ; FRANK X.
YARWOOD, Esq.; HERBERT R. LYSAGIIT,
Esq.; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq.; Hon. F.
JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SY'DNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES;
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Chief Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. 11. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedie Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 139 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout tire rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up .. . . . . 1,000.000
Uncalled Capital . . . . .. 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,345,702
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking
MACDONALD,
HAMILTON 8 CO.
Managing Agents for
Australasian’United Steam Navigation C”i d .
Central Queensland Meat Export Co. Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates Ltd.
Blackheath Collieries Limited.
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Shipping, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
Via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGES'!'; NEWEST; EASTEST; AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
R.M.S. NIAGARA and R.M.S. MAKURA.
The most beautiful Scenery in the World —the Canadian Rockies —is oii the All-Red Route.
The Prairies, the Great Lakes, Chicago, Niagara Falls and New York can all be visited.
Through bookings to all Canadian, United States and European points.
Stop-overs on the Railways Arranged.
CALL OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS OF THIS ROUTE.
PASSENGERS CAN CHANGE AT HONOLULU INTO A DIRECT STEAMER FOR
' ' SAN FRANCISCO.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.D.,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
Thfe' (Heat fillies of Hie Uhlted States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand tanyOh Of Ari*ohtt, Yellowstone Park, Niagara J ails, etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ISLAND TOURS.
Now is the Time to Visit the PACIFIC ISLANDS.
DELIGHTFUL TOURS to
NORFOLK ISLAND and NEW HEBRIDES.
SOLOMON ISLANDS.
PAPUA and RABAUL.
Trips of Four, Five and Seven Weeks’ Duration.
BURNS, PHILP S CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Paid-up
licserve
Reserve
Capital
I'und
Liability
Established 1817.
Direr, tors:
£3,904,860
£3,020>000
£3,804,860
£10,834,720
The lion. Sir Cnarles Iv. Macliellar, K.C.M.G..
M.L.C., President.
K. B. S. Falkitier, Esq., M.H.B.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Auditors : S. E. Eaidley, Esq. ; A. G. Milsdn, Esq.
Tliomas Buckland, Esq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Kobevt L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The lion. James T. Walker.
General Manager : Sir John Russell French, 1v.8.E.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, EC.
330 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world. .
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Commonwealth
•TIWH
sank o, Sustra!ta
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking* Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australiaand Rabaul (Newßritain),
also London (2), and A.I.F. Camps in England.
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and SAVINGS BANK AGENCIES at 2776 Post Offices
throughout Australia, Papua, New Britain, Solomon Islands,
and The Pacific.
JAMES KELL, DENISON MILLER,
Deputy Governor 1919 Governor
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1834.
Capital paid up - £2,000,000
Reserve Fund - £2/180.000
Reserve Capital - £2,000,000
£6,080,000
SM
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Ivater, M.L.CT.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thos. Hughes, M.L.C.
J. W. Macarthur Onslow,
Esq. M.L.A.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Branch: 18 Birchin Bane, E.C.
London Bankers —The Bank of England; The London County and Westminster and
Parr’s Bank, Limited; Barclays Bank, Limited.
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Shipping.
Sydney Inter-State
Sub-Committee.
Intending passengers for other States
are requested to inquire at Quarantine
Department, Customs House, Sydney,
regarding necessary permits required
before sailing.
Permission to break journey at inter-
mediate Ports is suspended
Inter=State Passenger
Sailings
(Circumstances Permitting).
FOR MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE.
FOR TOWNSVILLE AND CAIRNS.
Huddart Parker LjM>
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND. —Regular sail-
ings between Sydney and Melbourne lo New Zealand
ports and vice versa; particulars to be obtained on
application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA.—From Sydney to
Hobart and vice versa every three weeks. Between
Melbourne and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HODDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; CeorgeBtreet,Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
1 Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
TWEED" - RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBLCCA, M A CLEAT AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to RYIiON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Munvillumbah.
rail to Bvron Bav, Richmond or Clarence Riverß,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 Us.; second-class rail and steerage on
steamer, £4 ss.
For Guide and all particulars apply;—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
the FINE TWIN-SCREW STEAMER,
“LEVUKA,” 6500 tons,
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney. , . , . ...
The “Levuka” is fitted with wireless and with
every modern convenience for the comfort of passen-
round journev from Melbourne occupies. 26
(lavs, and from Sydney 18 days. Passengers desiring
a more extended tour can travel by S.S. “Amra,”
which connects at Suva.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street,
Melbourne, or Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
Favorite Mail Route to Japan, with connections
at Japan to
EUROPE AND AMERICA.
Tours can be arranged to China, Japan, Korea,
r by this Line.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN.
Via Brisbane, Townsville, Thursday
Island, Zamboanga, Manila, Hongkong,
Passengers must obtain from the Quarantine
\uthorities permits to leave New South Wales at least
three days before the steamer’s departure.
SPEOIAL NOTICE.—AII Passengers proceeding to
JAPAN must have their Passports vised by the Con-
sul-General for Japan in accordance with the regula-
tions of the Japanese Government
Full particulars of Sailing Dates, Passage Money,
Freights, etc., apply
.BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LTD.,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.


Edison Blue Amberol
Records for April
Iccoi#
The notable feature of this month’s list is the tine selec-
tion of dance music. Dancing to the strains of the Blue
Amberol Records is becoming increasingly popular, and
the numbers below will prove great favorites for their
excellence of orchestration and splendid rendition.
Of the vocal music, the concerted items are especially
attractive. “Blest Be the Tie that Binds,” Metropolitan
Quartet; “Ole Virginity Days,” Homestead Trio; and
also the others, are a treat to lovers of real music.
Rachael Grant and Billy Murray, in a characteristic
duet, “You said Something—Have a Heart”; Rudy*
Wiedoeft’s Saxophone selection of his own composing;
the sprightly “IVdka sur les airs populaires” of the
famous Garde Republicaine Band; the items “Where
Do We Go from Here,” and “You May Hold a Million
Girlies in Your Arms,” by the light-hearted, lively Arthur
Fields, * are all well worth adding to your present
library.
Order from this list:
Blue Amberol Regular Records.
3235 —Mo-Ana —Hawaiian Waltz, for Dancing'.
Jaudas’ Society Orchestra.
3255- A Darkey’s Oration on Woman,
Coon Vaudeville Sketch, with Banjo.
Billy Golden and James Marlowe.
3200 -Where Do We Go From Here?
Baritone, orch ace,
Arthur Fields.
3277 —Blest Be the Tie that Binds.
Mixed Voices, orch ace.
Metropolitan Quartet.
3206—F0r the Freedom of the World One-step,
for Dancing.
Jaudas’ Society Orchestra.
3299 You May Hold a Million Girlies in Your
Arms (But There’s Only Hoorn for One
Down in Your Heart). Baritone, orch.
ace. Arthur Fields.
3300 You Said Something—Have a Heart.
Soprano and Tenor, orch. ace. f
Rachael Grant and Billy Murray.
3302 —-Felicia Waltz, for Dancing.
Jaudas’ Society Orchestra.
3314 —Dry town Blues —One-step.
Xylophone, orch ace.
Lon Chilni “Frisco.”
3315 — When I Dream of Old Erin.
Male Voices, oreh ace.
Apollo Quartet.
3316 — From Me to Mainly Lee.
Male Voices, oreh acc.
Premier Quartet.
3325 —Invincible America March.
New York Military Band.
3327- —Clm Chin Chow.
Contralto and Chorus, oreh acc.
Marion Evelyn Cox.
3342—Pu1l the Cork Out of Erin (Let the
River Shannon Flow). Tenor, oreh. acc.
Irving Kaufman.
3351 —Some Sunday Morning.
Conversational Duet, oreh. acc.
Ada Jones and Billy Murray.
3355—01 e Virginny Days.
Female Voices, oreh. acc.
Homestead Trio.
3393—Valse Llewellyn. Saxophone, oreh. acc.
Rudy Wiedoeft.
27076—P01ka sur les airs populaires.
Garde Republicaine Band.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD. (Wholesale only), 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
3k
11
Cold nights coming!
Entertainments restricted ; but
there can be no limitation of
fireside comfort-and the
enjoyment of your
—the Perfect Pipe!
Many popular shapes.
BD
OF STERLING VALUE. RIGID and RELIABLE.
WE HAVE AN UNRIVALLED SELECTION.
COMBINED
KNIFE, FORK & SPOON,
all metal, very strong:.
Price 2/- post free.
“SUNOL” Pocket Lighters.
Better than Matches.
Price 2/* each, post tree.
Harrington and Richardson’s
D.8.8.L. Gun, 20-gauge, top lever, case-
hardened frame, 20in. barrels, both choke; weight
about oflb Freight paid,
£.5101-
S33SB
Smoke Sunol Tobacco
Awarded 4 Gold Medals.
2oz. Sample 12, Post Free.
823. C. H. Crawford’s D.8.8.L. Gun,
12-gauge, top lever, double bolt.. 30in, barrels, left
choice, pistol grip, walnut stock, scroll engraved, bar locks.
Greener cross-bolt, nitro proof; weight of 12-gauge about 7 Jib. Freight paid,
;£ll/11/-
“Koolah” Shaving Sticks
Delightful to Use. 7d. each, post free.
Owing to market fluctuations,
prices Here quoted are subject
to change without notice.
m
833. Winchester Automatic Repeating' Shot-Gun,
1911 Model, 12-gauge, walnut stock, pistol grip, nickel-steel
barrel, 28in., full choke, take-down system, chambered for 2 2 in. shells.
Magazine holds o cartridges, rubber butt-plate. ,
Weight i Jib Freight paid, £>ll/11^
POWDER
Just arrived large shipment of Gunpowder.
You are advised to make an early purchase.
AUSTRAL 3/9 lb.
F.F.F. 3/9 lb.
DIAMOND GRAIN 5/- lb.
DUPONT’S SmoKeless for Guns 10/0 lb.
DUPONT'S SmoKeless for Rifles 11/9 lb.
E. C. SMOKELESS 11/9 lb.
PLEASE NOTE —Powder cannot be posted.
MINIMUM FREIGHT on any quantity
packed up to 281 b. is 10 = in N.S.W.
We Repair All Kinds of Guns and Rifles
826. Midland Gun Co.’s D.8.8.L.
Pigeon Gun. 12-gauge, top action, bar locks,
■Greener cross-bolt, high-filed rib, 28- or 30-inch steel
barrels, both choke, D. & E. fore-end side clips, chambered for 2|in. cartridges,
beautifully engraved, weight about 7Jlb Freight paid,
£l4/14/-
834. Remington Browning Automatic Repeating
Shot Gun, 12-gauge, slide grip, steel barrels, take-down
system, magazine hclds six cartridges;
weight about 71b Freight paid,
£ll/11|
Harrin acton and
Richardson’s
5.8.8. L. Gun,
12-gauge,
top action, solid case-hardened locks,
grip, walnut stock ; weight about 6jlb.
ordinary Double-barrel Gun.
decarbonised steel barrel, 30in. pistol
Gun can be taken apart, same as an
62 Auto-Ejector, 45
Postage— 2/6 N.S.W.:
4/8 Inter-State.
DC
Mjsnwua's greatest
SPORTS OUTFITTERS
7UID TOBACCONISTS
City Sports Depot
99King St, also at
Newcastle £ Brisbane


*
V
C
Miss EDNA KEELEY (from a photo taken at Quarantine Camp. Albury).
“Quarantined, but can still smile,
thanks to Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive
Tabules,” says Miss Edna Keeley.
You will be surprised to hear from me, and from tile Albur.v Quarantine Camp,
too! But I write to send you a photograph of myself taken here, which will show
you that I can still smile, although a prisoner, and that your I>r. Sheldon’s Diges-
tive Tabules have a great deal to do with that smile. When our tour was upset
and I found that, though ail healthy, we were to go into quarantine, it gave me
such a shock that for the first time in my life I got an acute attack of nervous
indigestion. I thought 1 would die —the pain was so severe. A member of the
company took something from her hag and gave me a little taliule, and directly I
swallowed it I felt relief, and within a, quarter of an hour I was free from pain. I
asked her what she had given me, and it was one of Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules.
How useful these became during our enforced incarceration!
The food in the Quarantine Camp did not agree with me, and I don’t know what
I would have done without Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules.
I can heartily and cordially endorse everything as t<f their wonderful efficacy—
I have never heard of anything half as good, and I shall always carry them in
my trunk in case I, or someone with us, have need of such a remedy.
If my words are of any service to you, they may be published, and also my
photograph. Thanking you,
I remain, yours sincerely,
(Sgd.) EDNA KEELEY.
MaKe Your Stomach Strong' and Healthy.
Dr. Sheldon's Digestive Tabules digest what you eat, and allow you to eat all the good,
wholesome food you want. If you are suffering from Indigestion, vou will be surprised at
the speedy relief they will give you. if your rise is of long standing, it will requiie u
reasonable time, to effect a remedy, for Nature cannot leplace worn-out tissues with new
ones by magic. But when, by the use of this preparation, the stomach is given absolute
rest, and abundant nourishment and reconstructive materials furnished, recovery is certain
and permanent. Price 1/6 and 2/6.
pr? e 2/6 Digest uihatyou eat
FACING extreme drought and torrential rains, the motorist in
Sydney learns to depend more and more: on Spencer-Moulton
Three-Ribbed Tyres. The Spencer-Moulton toughness, grip, and
resiliency give an unprecedented degree of comfort, speed, and
safety over the ever-changing road - surfaces of the country.
Ask any motorist who has tried Spencer-Moultons
fn La difficult climate or country— that s all.
' <m2/K\-3illliss
fgmM 5
s#«%
K m
mi
mm**
* *■
♦ ilfflaSPli '"’w"' ’
:s> -
***B#*^
ft
rifr-rag}
_~\V
PENGERB
BOULTON
«N
1 3
///I "-‘ft
THREE RIBBED
TYRES
m
?/i‘ N
MS
,f//l‘"^/
WSf'Mv 1 "
IS
ar
*
r'?B
mimm
r
SUi
V3#
//
fco* 5 "
SPENCER - MOULTON ALL - BRITISH
SOLID RUBBER TYRES ARE WINNING
THE SAME UNIVERSAL APPROVAL
GEORGE SPENCER, MOULTON & CO., LIMITED,
Head Offices : 77-79. Cannon Street, London, E.C. 4.
Works : Kingston Mills, Bradford-on-Avon, Wilts.
STOCKISTS : Cape. Town, J hannesbutg. Melbourne, Sydney, Christchurch,
li- tiling ton, Cairo, Colombo, Madras, Singapore, Clang, Kuala-Lumpur, Medan,
Saigon.
F.C.B. —164
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed.
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.
Works! Birmingham, England.
These series *of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
dra a n to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
THE PALACE HOTEL,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OF PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
JOHN T. GLOWREY, Proprietor.
My Son.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MY son. mv brother of the few good
days,
Most strong and glad in death,
Take back your smile and go your silent
ways.
For you no withering breath
Of years can blow, bitter with right undone,
Or wet with loved eyes’ tears.
Go now in peace: for you the sands can run
Through quiet, buried years.
You will not read the dreams I have for you,
Nor hear the songs I keep.
No broken words can touch you, old or new;
You have no tears to weep.
No voices singing out of ages grey
Will reach you with a sigh ;
No woman’s heart will smile through black-
est day—
And no loved son will die!
My boy, my comrade of the years to be,
Watch well my striving soul!
Make all my thoughts to come in grace to
me;
And put in each God's dole
Of radiant pity, till the last night falls
And my sands, too, have run
At last to you. And, when the trumpet
calls.
Hold fast my hand, my son !
N.S.W.
HILARY LOFTING.
A Drink of Water.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
FORTY-EIGHT hours ago they should
have struck Eagle Creek. Five days
gone they had munched slowly and
with extreme care, frequently removing the
chew from their mouths, to renew the gnaw-
ing process at intervals, the last of the long-
eked-out corned junk. Twenty-four hours
which they could not recall divided them
from their last drink.
Now they sat around, with heavy eyes,
belts drawn into the last hole,' cheek-bones
showing through the cracking, sun-baked
skin, and mouths working spasmodically.
Occasionally one or other endeavored fruit-
lessly to moisten his lips with his tongue.
Furtively each cast glances filled with mur-
derous intent at the dog, and from the dog
to Joe, seated with his head resting on
his drawn-up knees; but they always re-
turned to the dog—unless Joe happened to
be watching. Two days ago Crowliurst had
suggested eating the dog. Yesterday he had
resurrected the proposition. A few branches
and some odd stones marked where they
had left Crowhurst when Joe had finished
his work. They were too weak to dig a
hole, and starvation had not yet reduced
them to cannibalism.
But if he could not often catch the glances,
Joe was painfully conscious of them. Sev-
eral times he had awakened from his drowse
with a start, as his sub-conscious faculties
warned him of violence threatening his four-
legged companion. Always he found every-
one occupied with his own thoughts, and he
would again doze off.
Had he propelled himself on fonr legs
instead of two, and had half an inch more
melted on to his nose, Joe would have proved
a striking likeness for the half-breed cattle
hound which he so zealously guarded. The
straggly black hair and beard of Joe was,
color excepted, a replica of the matted,
shaggy, unkempt, yellow 7 coat of the mongrel.
Even the eyes, peeping through the narrow
space between shaggy brows and hairy cheek-
bones, held the trusting look of the dog’s.
But that w 7 as when Joe was normal. Just
then the eyes, whenever he raised his head
to gaze into the faces of his fellows, peered
restlessly about him, questioning, doubting
the seeming sereneness around. For .Toe
knew that the outward calm of his com-
panions w 7 as but the oil upon the surface of
the seething volcano beneath, ready, waiting
to leap into violent eruption the moment he
should leave himself or his animal mate un-
guarded. Ever since Crow’hurst had sug-
gested the slaughter of the beast, two days
earlier, Joe had had to keep awake, somehow,
day and night. Once, when he had dozed
oyer-long, he awakened to find all four of
his companions creeping awkwardly down
upon the sleeping hound at his side. One
had even crept around to attack from the
rear.
As an outcome of all this it did not seem
strange when, at about 3 o’clock next morn-
ing. with a full, cheese-like moon floating low
in the west, Joe, after satisfying himself that
all was quiet, climbed stiffly to his feet,
grasping the dog by the scruff of the neck,
and melted silently into the shadows. For
those he wms leaving behind, without his
counsel the end would soon come, he knew ;
upon him they had depended from the start
of the expedition. But after their treatment
of him and his it was but meet that they
should stew 7 in their own fat. Probably
they wrnuld lie down and die peacefully w 7 hen
the ever-inviting feast was no longer present
to torment them into remaining alive.
Until the sun was high in the sky he
plodded laboriously onward, the dog. with
hollow sides and lolling tongue, trailing be-
hind. It no longer frisked ahead nosing
for lizards and other life in the sticks and
logs. When the heat made further progress
unbearable alike to man and beast. Joe
selected the hollow trunk of a huge gum and
stretched out in its shade. After the sun
had gone out in the evening, leaving its
warning for the following day across the
world in a crimson flood, he was again on his
feet. As he went he chewed many dry
twigs, spitting them out when he came to
the bitter centre. Often w 7 as he tempted
to munch the soft, cool leaves of obtruding
sum bushes, but the vmiyiing scent of euca-
lyptus held liis thirst-madness in check.
Once he stumbled into a series of holes
which he knew had one time been a swamp.
Getting down on his hands and knees he
groped about for roots or other luscious herb-
age, but everything was dry and brittle.
Even the grass crackled beneath his palms.
It was late in the night when it hap-
pened. The moon had not yet risen and it
was dark under the trees and scrub. Climb-
ing over a fallen tree-trunk in order to avoid
the detour of its length, he let himself down
the other side. Ills feet failing to touch the
earth, he caught his breath with a jerk, and
the next instant was floundering in water.
Throwing his arms wildly about, he was
pleasantly surprised to feel his feet touch
bottom. A soft, sandy, caressing bottom !
So great was his surprise that for a moment
he stood, at a loss what to do. The next
he was drinking in great gulps, burying his
face half under as he sucked the fluid
through his lips like a parched animal.
When lie could drink no more he poked out
his tongue, moving it to and fro in the cool-
ing water. His head he soaked, and his
face and neck and hands. Then he clam-
bered out on to the bank. A whine at his
feet reminded him of his selfishness. He
again scrambled into the water, to return
with a hat full for the dog. Then man and
beast stretched out on the ground, the former
in his Sodden clothes, and went to sleep.
In the morning Joe learned that he had
stumbled into a lagoon, an oasis in a yellow,
sizzling mass of dried trees, stunted scrub
and crackling grass.
With the discovery came another of
almost equal magnitude. While he stood
studying the surface and shores of the
lagoon, a clumsy, crashing noise in the rear
brought his head round with a. jerk. Hush-
ing towards the water, making feeble gut-
tural noises as they staggered forward, -
came his late comrades, stumbling every
yard! Clever tracking, or Divine Provi-
dence, had guided their steps aright, and by
travelling through the heat of the day they-
had picked up the lead which had been stolen
upon them.
For a single instant a look of fear flashed
into Joe’s eyes, giving place to one of anger
and disgust as his mind did a lightning cal-
culation, showing that one lagoon of water,
minus food, reproduced stalemate —and end-
less watching, day and night, to keep the
human vultures from the feast at his feet.
And Joe had already had an introduction
to the non-stop vigilance game.
When the four reached the water Joe
watched from the spot to which he had
shifted, on the other side of the lagoon.
Into the water he saw them plunge, burying
head, face and hands as he had done the
night before, in the refreshing liquid. When
they could drink no more he saw them crawl
out on to the bank and go to sleep.
While they slept he faced his problem as
well as his weakened state would allow. To
remain where he was brought no prospect of
obtaining nourishment apart from the water,
and he had no means of ascertaining what
lay beyond the lagoon. Should he elect to
remain he knew that, sooner or later, he
must kill or be killed when the others came
down upon him. There could be no middle
course. And he did not feel equal to a kill-
ing. To the west ran the Overland Tele-
graph Line, he knew. If he could reach that
he would surely fall in with some passing
linesman and obtain succor. After an hour’s
pondering he climbed unsteadily on to his
feet, consumed as much water as he could
carry, removed and soaked his coat, and
turned about to face the unknown. Leaving
the water was his hardest task, but, should
he fail to find more soon, he could at least
suck the moisture from his coat until a fresh
supply was procured.
As the sun set that evening he seated him-
self with his back against a tree for a short
hour’s spell ; in the cool of the night he
would continue his westward flight. He
could always rely upon himself to waken at
a given time. When he came to his senses
again the sun was shining. Dazed and bewil-
dered, he rose to his feet. He. could not get
his bearings at all. Surely he had not slept
the night through, losing the hours of cool-
ness for travel! Dully he realised that he
had done so, and that with the flight of the
hours his thirst had quickened. He qoughed
dryly, and his tongue clove to the roof of his
mouth. He would have to draw on the
reserve moisture stored in the folds of his
coat, trusting to fortune to guide him to the
next waterhole. Lifting the coat from the
ground, a cold shiver passed down his spine .
as he realised that it was dry. Feverishly
he turned it inside out, thrust his hands into
the sleeves, lifted the flaps and felt in the.
pockets; he even ripped out the lining, feel-
ing sure that the elusive water was lurking
and laughing at him there. When no hiding-
place remained unexplored he cast the gar-
ment from him and sank down against the
tree. Fate was dead against him, with the
Overland still an unknown distance in front.
He could never reach it; he had been a fool
to leave the lagoon. He had tempted Fate,
and she was now setting herself to adminis-
ter the knock-out punch. Well, she could go
ahead. He was tired of it all. He would—
but. bah ! The mangiest of the four would
at least put up a fight; not one of them
would pass out with his back to a tree and
his heart in his bluchers. To Hell with
Fate! He would give her a run for her
money, at least.
Midday found him, with chin resting
heavily on his chest, fighting his way
through the scrub. Stumbling into the dry
bed of a creek that afternoon, he fell upon
his hands and knees, digging frantically into
the sand in search of some slightest drop of
moisture. While the particles flew in
showers around, the dog sat heavily upon his
haunches, watching with mild curiosity the
antics of his master. When a handful came
no( jd p d head wisely without
shifting his position, as though in sorrow for
this one-time strong man who now aetod so
strangely. Like a child upon the seashore, he
tunnelled into the gravel, whimpering as it
piled in heaps about him. But it was not a
joyous whimper, and the puffed lips and'
broken skin bore testimonv that the game
was not mere castles in the sand. There was
no water; not the merest sign of moisture.
Lven the rushes on the banks, which he
pulled from the ground, were dry at the roots
and bitter on the tongue.
W ith the sun scorching his face he stum-
bled through the afternoon. Several times
during the day the dog had observed him
watching it intently. Once he had taken
hold of the loose skin at the back of its neck.
(Continued on next page.)


A MAN IS AS STRONG AS HIS BACK.
A flan can only do as much work as his back will stand.
Once the back gives out he must lay down his tools.
But that is not all, for Backache tells of sick kidneys. Other unmistakable signs are dizziness,
stiffness of the limbs, sick headache and sleeplessness. Before long the patient grows nervous,
short tempered and depressed ; the eyes become heavy and sunken, with swellings beneath
t UJ
*
£0
sggwg
m
w=
A>
'Every Picture
Tells a Story.’*
them, and the color flies from the cheeks. There is danger of
serious kidney disease, rheumatism and dropsy. The liquid
poison which causes kidney troubles is driven from the body
quickly and thoroughly by the genuine Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills. This great medicine will strengthen your back by relieving
and toning up the kidneys.
A WOMAN’S CASE.
Mrs. E. L. Wood, 18 Abercrombie Street,
Redfern, Sydney, says“As the result of
my kidneys being out of order, I suffered a
lot from backache and at times was in such
pain that I could hardly move. If 1
stooped the agony was almost unbearable,
and it was as much as I could do to stand
up straight again without assistance. Back-
ache is a most trying ailment, the pain never
seems to leave you day or night; at any
rate, that was my experience. After using
all kinds of medicines without deriving any
benefit I saw Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills advertised, and the thought occurred
to me to try them. I got a bottle at once
and by the time I had finished it I felt ever
so much better. Thus encouraged I con-
tinued taking the pills, with the result that
four bottles cured me completely. lam a
great believer in Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills, and recommend them to other suf-
ferers with every confidence.”
Testimony
from
two
Sydney
Residents.
A MAN'S CASE.
Mr. Thomas Spence, Harriet Villa. Park
Road, Auburn, says:—“For years I was an
engine-driver on the N.S.W. _ Railways, and
for a long time prior to my retirement suffered
greatly with my kidneys. I think the con-
stant exposure had the effect of weakening
these organs. The first warning I had of
anything being wrong was a pain in the
small of my back. This soon began to
trouble me a good deal, and I was often so
bad that I could hardly move. I took medi-
cines of all kinds, but I got no better, and
sometimes I used to wonder if ever I would
be free of the nagging ache. Well, to make
a long story short, I at last got Doans
Backache Kidney Pills, and they soon fixed
me up. a short course banishing the ailment
completely', and I have not suffered with m.v
kidneys since.” „ T
Two years later Mr. Spence says' l
have had' no return of my ola complaint since
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me
some years ago.” _
Backache
Kidney
Price 2/0 per bottle, st-
all Chemists and Stores,
or post free from Foster-
McClellan Co., 76 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
and raised its head, looking long into its
eyes. With a rough curse he had thrown the
animal from him and plodded on. Always
now it trailed at his heels, squatting on its
haunches at a safe distance while he scram-
bled painfully to his feet. What it had seen
in his eyes, while he held the scruff of its
neck, had warned the wolf-cunning lying
deep down in its innermost recesses that
danger now lurked in the caress which had
conveyed only love.
“I won’t eat you, you hlarsted mongrel!”
Joe had rumbled through his swollen lips,
sensing the beast’s deductions. But there
was no assurance in his voice, and the dog
kept its distance.
Concluding that he would probably not rise
should lie sit down to rest again, he kept on
the move throughout the night, thankful,
when occasionally he gave it a thought, that
the moon was full and the sky clear. His
tongue was swollen in his mouth, and when,
the better to get his breath, he opened his
lips, fine tissues of skin would tear from one
~or other where they had broken and stuck
together. Long ago he had given up all
thought of moistening them, for his tongue
was dry and his throat cased as with un-
tanned leather. During the past two hours
he had been wandering without sense of
direction, travelling into the West, he hoped ;
perhaps wandering in circles, he well real-
ised. Daylight found him at the foot of a
gently-rising, thickly-wooded slope, despair-
ing of reaching the summit, yet certain lie
could not call up strength to carry him
around. It was then that something caught
his eye which brought from his throat a cry
something akin to joy, very like to madness.
Up and over the knoll it went, beckoning
him to follow —the lane hacked through the
virgin forest, with the poles of the Overland
Telegraph standing sentinel in the centre.
At the sight, thirst, hunger, fatigue—all
were forgotten as he breasted the slope, pray-
ing for what the summit would reveal. Arriv-
ing at the top his pace slackened until finally
he stopped, shading his watering eyes with
his hands and peering down the long, endless
line of poles. Straight across a treeless, sun-
scorched plain they ran, blending with the
purple haze on the distant horizon.
Mechanically lie groped his way into the
scant shade of a telegraph-pole and threw
himself upon the ground. It was no use
fighting further, and no linesman was likely
to patrol the section across that far-flung
plain of Hades. And it didn’t matter now,
anyway. He was sorry to leave the dog, old
Infamy, brought all the way from the coast,
but no doubt it would get somewhere when
left to itself. A dog had more chances
than a man in that country.
When he awoke, three hours later, the
shade had shifted and the sun blazed down
upon his unprotected face. He knew it was
blistered, with matter showing yellow be-
neath the cracked and broken skin of his
lips. He had to grit his teeth while opening
his eyes because of the contracted skin in the
corners stretching and breaking. His head
reeled and his stomach heaved as he sat
erect. He could not recall himself or his
position. And the dog! What was a dog
doing in his bedroom? lie would want to
know more about that. Then, in a moment,
his head became strangely clear. He knew
all about it now. He was Joe Huddersfield
and that was old Infamy. He had been sent
out to inspect the Overland, and this was his
way of doing it—sleeping on the job! He
might have been asleep since yesterday! He
would have to hustle. Turning on to his
hands and knees, he was surprised to feel his
] e gs refuse to do the bidding of his mind,
They would not carry him.
Throwing his arms about the pole he strug-
g i e d upright. Leaning against it while the
dizziness passed, a humming in his ear
attracted him. What did they want with
him now? He would have to get up to the
wires and answer them. Embracing the post
with legs and arms he struggled frantically
t 0 cl imb upward, cursing mildly as he fell
back at each attempt. They were still ring-
W , They would gUCSS h * waS skepmg
sunnort and looking about
, . Clinging to the support and lookin B about
& OlTTntTtiiy S T 11 He h had a nev?r 1 faded
? n nf ®“ y * £lpu vTTe would get there
a , . , g h -f i' p n u; ne i,i m & Infamv
k t hig seat> j oe released his grip of the
t , s( )nr ] i„ f i toward him only to fall
the ground as the dog unme’d to one side
” he rTiiTd a sHategic at ack advanc-
As ne commenced “ stiturgu. >uu».v, “ uvu L
jn a f ew inc hes between frequent pauses,
?ip Y'stonS," R
* an
h£
, A c g V i '■ n "A “
of "meaT was s'tronge? than the weakness of
, . t p it v qrlvnnrerl warilv he
Saclied y out n Tis e S to sniffle dain?y
morsel Joe’s hands closed round his throat,
With the yelp of fear he endeavored to. jump
away, but the grip only tightened. In silence
and d< « and rolled uoon the
S rouad ’ Y h . ee ?. m S J!°f. es escaping from the
mouths of both. Sinking his claw's into the
flesh the dog ripped a wide furrow up his
assailant’s arm* but the only response from
tlle was* a grating laugh as he sank
his fingers farther into the hair, exerting
every ounce of pressure he could command,
"'hen. finally, the dog lay still, Joe released
lds S ri P nilcl stretched minting at his side.
When he. had gained sufficient strength he
dra |f d tb ® body to th ? n foot °V t ft 6 ’ ,
Now, blarut you will you climb ? hes de-
Inanded ' For once, the-shaggy, yellow head
of old Infamy f ailed ta aod ' , t
Looking at his work from where he sat a
y ard awa y ll Pon the ground, Joe noticed a
crimson stain slowly spreading into the earth
m front of the animal s nose. It was blood.
Wriggling nearer he dipped his finger mlo
tbe sickly fluid and found it warm. It seemed
almost to hold life. Certainly it smelt of
A e sh. As the scent drifted into his nostrils
anrl (I< !™ lus tbr ° a £ thoughts of duty, thirst,
everything vanished—everything but the am-
mal desire for meat!
When he struggled erect against the post
half an hour later his hands were red, and
broad strains streaked his face. He felt
good. With a drink of water he would
be himself again. He must have a drink
of water. He knew it more than ever now.
The meat which had taken the edge off his
hunger had added fuel to the fire consuming
his throat. Tearing at his shirt neck, he
stared fearfully about him. There was no
sign of a waterliole. He might have known
it; he did know it, long ago. Had he not
been searching for one for years? He never
would find one. He would probably
but what! What was that half a mile out
along the line? Had the meat lent strength
to his eyes?
Shading his eyes with both hands he
looked long and carefully down the endless
line of poles. It was there, sfire enough.
Not more than half a mile away. The sun
was shining on it, and the rushes growing
round the edge were green and waving gently
in the breeze. He could afford to take his
time now.
Staggering down the line, he clung tightly
to something in his hand. It had a crook
in the centre and moved to and fro as he
walked.
At the edge of the waterhole he stretched
himself flat upon the ground. It was long
since he had tasted water, and he would make
the most of_ it. It was cool ; wonderfully
cool. Resting his mouth upon the surface
he drew it in in great, delicious gulps. When
he could swallow no more, he turned upon
his back and lay still.
A' solitary eagle, circling gracefully,
crooked its neck and looked down. Like a
stone it dropped a thousand feet and con-
tinued the circles. A few minutes later
other spots appeared circling in the heavens ;
then they too dropped to lower altitudes.
An hour before sunset a score of them sat in
a grotesque semi-circle round a dark mass
huddled upon the ground. Occasionally
one or other of them blinked; often they
sharpened their hooked beaks upon the sun-
baked earth.
It was Fred Sharman who found it. A
number of white bones and a skull. The
skull was certainly human. So were the
bones, except one. Castledene, the line
foreman, said the odd one had been the leg
of a dog.
Joe had drunk at the wrong mirage.
G. L. THOMAS.
Smoke.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
"IVT’OBBY and I had been talking of our
long run of luck ; and, as men will in
France, we were letting our tongues
loose on the delights of London, when the
C.O. came hurrying in.
“Nobby,” he spoke rapidly, “you’re stand-
ing by for a job, aren’t you? Yes, I thought
so. Well, get two other lads and go out
and strafe that balloon at the north-east
corner of Sausage Wood. D’you know it?"
Yes, sir, said Aobby, auietly listening so
as to miss nothing, what s the trouble.'
“it’s starting to register their guns on
that bunch of tanks near Triencourt, and
it’ll do a hell of a lot of damage if we don't
stop it until the tanks can move off. I’ve
warned Taffy and Odol and they are waiting
by their machines. Yours is out waiting,
too. It’s a short job—come straight back,
but get that Hun balloon."
Nobby put his cigarette down on an ash-
tray——he alwavs was a careful chap, well
broken to house—and dashed out. In less
than two minutes I heard the roar of their
engines die away to nothing in the distance,
“Pretty quick work, sir, eh?” I said to
<he C O
«< Y es ” he replied “Nobby doesn’t waste
a nv time They won’t be more than 10
minutes It’s not far They’ll go full out
j«?Vkw feeP u,/ ovei' The
trenches until they get to the balloon then
zoom up and plug her until she burns. Hint's
how you do yours, isn’t it?”
“Yes,” I said. “I think that’s the best
way. The Hun Archie is pretty useful,
“ T*,"? ’T"*’
We P alised and P' st than , the telephone in
t he mess rang. The orderly came in and
told tho Ma f or that Wing Headquarters
WGuld like to speak to him.
T , . c . , , „„„
I stood for a moment and my eye fell nn
bJ’tt^bTTTmoke s^^^ 8^ puIITSS
g toTmpbv
mJ 7h£ baKme^MaTo^
“Wail ” i c .,m innlrin- nn thp siv fppt nf
bra wn and muscle that” resembled' a arise-
fig-hter rather than the public’s conception of
? h £ airX, “anything' cloin R
amongst the brass-hats to-day?’
“No hot-air this time,” said he, smiling:
“Nobby’s transfer to Home Establishment
has come through, so he’s up on his last job
now.’
“Good e-e-enough! we all cried with
one voice. “Binge to-night, cha-a-ps.” A
“bince ” not to be confused with a “blind,”
nor with a mere dinner, was always cele-
brated when an officer went home or was
decorated. Or, more often, for want of
something better to do.
We laughed and joked for a few minutes
until we heard the noise of anengine gradn-
ally increasing and then cut off again which
t old that a “ a^ hm , e about t I
Soon m came Taffy, looking for the C. 0..
stll \ dressed “ his klt ’ hls gogg!es
pushed up on lus cap.
“What luck?” said the C.O.
0b - . w « f ot . tbe . ba ß°l n x -VL, ngb V A"
t bose , bl as t ed Archies hit Nobby and e
him down m flames—l saw his machine glow-
mg like a coal ; with a string of smoke twist-
ing in . the air behind him. God, it was
awful!’ Taffy shuddered.
4 s 1 crossed to him, I saw the cigare
that once was Nobby’s lying in the ash-tray,
i t was still burning and a string of smoko
was twisting in the air.
C. BREWSTER JOSKE.


S i
II
*
yu
fism 3. ~ ..r »
aaenAi.".. I
II&
V
v-"
-
WESTINCHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z, Office—93*lo7 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—9o Queen Street, Melbourne.
lONCORD WEST,
P
m
§
in
gavax
XS'Od
!i
m
m
itsuuii
Out of the sea of
Experience came
Clydesdale Lorries.
CLYDESDALE Lorries are ever
forging to the front in the world’s
commerce by their faithful per-
formance.
Performance that gains in favor year after
year —the quality that was built into the
Clydesdale ; the care and precision that
were exerted in perfecting this finished
motor lorry, have firmly established an
individual place for Clydesdale Lorries as
the world’s economical carrier.
H. D. VAN BRUNT. Factory Representative, P.O. Box 3093,
Sydney, AUSTRALIA.
New South Wales Distributors: HARDY-JOHNSON MOTOR
CO., 54-56 Wentworth Avenue, SYDNEY.
New Zealand Distributors: INGBIS BROS. & CO. UTD.,
Harris Street, WEUUINGTON.
T. E. SHIEU & CO., Stafford Street, DUNEDIN.
THE CLYDE CARS COMPANY,
44 Whitehall Street, New York, tI.S.A.
Cable Address—CROMOTOR
SHOTGUN CARTRIDGES
1
1
8*?
I
TTHE judgment of veteran shooters, men who
A know by their own practical experience, is that
Remington UMC Shot Gun Cartridges embody all
of the essential qualities that make for satisfactory
service. They are supplied in four trade names—
NEW CLUB REMINGTON
NITRO CLUB ARROW
These four standard brands cover the
entire range of shot gun cartridges.
For further particulars enquire of your
k dealer or send for special descriptive
catalogue.
REMINGTON ARMS UMC
COMPANY
D. D. BRYANT
•__ . i.
Australian Manager
coc ran
Bo* 686, G. P. O.
TAKE
warning when the following symptoms make their appearance : —bilious-
ness, acidity, constipation, depression of spirits, flatulence, declining
appetite, headache, loss of energy, restlessness at night and heaviness
during the day. Generally speaking, these are indications that all is not
well with the digestive system. Take the necessary steps to remedy
matters. Before another day passes seek the assistance of
BEEGHAM’S PILLS
which will speedily relieve these unpleasant feelings, generally due to
complications arising from a disordered stomach, and bring about a
radical change in the General Health. For many years this excellent
preparation has been universally acknowledged to be a first-class remedy
for digestive troubles. They improve the powers of nutrition and thus
enable the body to benefit to the full from the food taken. Anyone who
is at all troubled with ailments originating in derangement of the
stomach, liver and bowels is urgently advised to take Beeeham’s Pills
AND MASK THE DIFFERENCE I
Sold in boxes, labelled price 10yd (36 pills), 1/1 i (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
w% ARE YOU n
RuptureD
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses'? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW: it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL.
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne. Vic.
Try This: Two
Generations Old
And never failed yet - to keep the bowels
regular, the temper smooth, the liver active, the
appetite vigorous and healthy. The recipe is:
"Keep Carters Little
Liver Pills where you
know where to find them
and don’t wait to be
bilious. They’re
a pleasure to
take.” Children
prefer them.
Purely
vegetable.
ItPER
PIU&
Small Pill—Small Doaa—Small Prioa.
GENUINE must bear signature
OXTER
MATCHLESS
Screwing' TacKle.
Easy-starting, easy-pulling, easy-adjustment have all been perfected
in this tool. It is self-contained—it has no loose dies or parts.
Leader screw troubles are permanently eliminated by our patented
chip shield.
Furnished in four sizes. Without ratchet, in., % in., lin. to 2in,.
With ratchet, lin. to 2in., 2% in. to 4in. All use one set of dies only,
except the largest, which uses two.
“The only way properly to appreciate a Matchless is to use it.” See
your dealer at once.
The Easiest
Way to
Screw Pipe
Carried in stock,
with extra parts,
by ironmongers,
machinery and
hardware 8 plumb-
ing supply houses.
Australasian Representative—
CHARLES WRIGHT, Turner Chambers, 16 Hunter St., Sydney
The Oster Manufacturing Co.,
Cleveland, Ohio , U.S.A.
M
ft
'trainer
C -
vt- :
each
Post Free
( Patented)
each
Post Free
Full Particulars
and Illustrated Circular.
The simplicity, - lightness and excellence of the
Dreadnought is fully maintained.
Titan Manufacturing Company,
Normanby Road, SOUTH MELBOURNE .


NGRovrr
LEATHER
331]
Ensures the Highest
Belting Efficiency.
Belting- efficiency means increased profits for
power-plant owners.
Mangrovite Rawhide Belting is unequalled for
difficult drives—it grips and does not slip.
Let us give you expert advice on your power
problems.
Mangrovite Belting Ltd.
(Successors to Charles Ludowici),
49 Wynyard Square (near G.P. o.),Sydney,N.S.W.
Western Australia: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Perth
S’th Australia: John Reid & Sons Ltd., Adelaide
The Eagle 8 Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
379 Kent Street,
Sydney.
264 Eatrobe Street, Melbourne; Kalgoorlie and Fremantle, W.A.
Charles Atkins & Co.j Adelaide. Paul & Gray Etd., Newcastle.
John Reid & Nephews, Brisbane.
KNIVES FOR
WOODWORKING MACHINES
■ IMl—
sitacc*..."
HIGH-QUAEITY STEEE-.CUTTING EDGES, with Iron Backs, made to your order
from our own material.
When ordering state size on cut, depth, thickness, length and width of slots;
whether for Fixed Heads or Movable Bolts. If Fixed Heads Template absolutely
necessary.
BUY YOUR CHEMICALS HERE
AND SAVE!
Wv have .large stocks of the following:—
Caustic Soda, Soda Ash, Bi-carbomate of
Soda, Chloride of Calcium, Sulphide of
Sodium, Chloride of Ammonium.
Naphthaline, Carbolic Acid (98% pale
straw). Bichromate Soda and Potash,
French Chalk, Dextrine, Aniline Dyes,
Hematine and Fustic Extracts
OIES —Whale, Cod and Herring.
Write us for prices and particulars,
JAMES HARDIE and CO., LTD.,
“Asbestos House,”
Cr. Wynyard & York Sts., SYDNEY.
’Phone 8456 (4 lines).
581-3 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
30 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Our S
ocks of MOTOR ACCESSORIES and NECESSARIES
Lumbl^
Snitok
IV CE^
hufactured
E nLAND OHIO
“One of the few
reliable ones.”
are such that they will please the most exacting or the most economical motorists.
It has always been our aim in supplying adjuncts for the aid of the every-day Car-owner to stock articles of
real service, and not merely spectacular-looking gadgets of doubtful utility, to mystify the curious onlooker.
ACCESSORIES.
'Neva Slip” Belt Dressing, 1/10 lb.
Graphite Rim Compound, prevents the tyres sticking to the
rims, 1/9 per tin.
Radiator Cleaning Compound, 4/6 per tin.
Radiator Stop Heat, 4/6 per tin.
Valve Lifter for Fords, 2/9 each. Ford Fan Belts, 1/3 each.
“Columbia” Dry Cells, 3/6 each.
Round or Oval Copper and Asbestos Washers,
from lin. to 4in. diam., Id. to lOd. each.
“Klaxon” Motor Horns, 25/- and 27/6 each.
Hub Cap Wrenches for Fords, 1/6 each.
Stewart Vacuum Tanks, 65/- each.
ROBERT C.
The House for Motor
304 Pitt Street,
SPARKING PLUGS.
SPECIAL, FOB FORDS.
Lodge, 5/-; Reflex, 2/9, 3/-; Champion “X,” 3/3; Hosier, 2/9
SPECIAL FOR OVERLANDS.
Sphinx, 4/6; Champion “0,” 4/-; A. C. Cico, 3/6; Reflex No. 1
3/3.
SPECIAL FOR BUCKS.
Reflex, 3/3; A. C. Cico, 3/6; Reflex, 4/-
SPECIAL FOR CHEVROLET AND OAKLAND.
A. C. Cico, 3/6; Titan, 4/6 each.
Also, large stocks of Sparking Plugs for English and
Continental Cars.
Sphinx, 4/6; Sphinx Mica, 5/6; Apollo Mica, 6,6; A. C. Cico, 3/6.
SWAN & Co. Ltd.,
Engineers’ Supplies,
SYDNEY.
ALL
#
i
Priming spark plug
for cold weather
starting.
“Tangye
Portable Lampless
Star” Portable Oil Engine
Oil Engine.
"Clayton” Portable Steam Engine
Dalgety’s Machinery Agencies comprise
TANCYE’S Lampless Oil Engines, Benzine Engines, Suction Gas Plants, Pumps of all types, etc.
CLAYTON Portable Steam Engines. WOLSELEY Sheep Shearing Machines. BUNGLE Chaffcutters.
GANE Milking Machines. E.R.B. Separator Engines, Pumping Engines, Crutching Plants.
TRIUMPH Oil and Benzine Engines, Vertical Type. “STAR" Portable Oil Engines, etc.
MACHINERY DEPARTMENT-MILLER’S POINT, SYDNEY.
Triumph Oil or Benzine
Engine.
E.R.B. Separator
Engine.
Buncle Travelling Chaffoutte r
fHj
hearing Machines
■3--
Repairs
to
Send ns your handpieces to repair and adjust, NOW—TO-DAY. They
will then he attended to before our machinery gets busy on the tisual
shearing programme.
Handpieces arriving now are assured* of the utmost attention and will
be returned to you in good time and perfect order.
Satisfaction guaranteed,
DA LG ETY & CO. LTD. Australasian Agents : All Branches.
For the GARAGE
and REPAIR SHOP -
Improved Designs Garage Air Compressors.
Even in the small garage and repair shop the installation of one of these little compressors is indispensable,
both from a point of economy and greater convenience.
INFLATING TYRES, CLEANING CARS AND INACCESSIBLE PARTS OF ENGINES, OPERATING SMALL
PNEUMATIC TOOLS, such as AIR HOISTS, RIVETING and CHIPPING HAMMERS, DRILLS, etc., are among the
numerous applications for which they are particularly recommended.
Call and inspect our Stock, or write for full descriptive Catalogue.
Eg
vOK
■I
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY
Sanitary Conditions in the Home
can only be secured by the regular and frequent
DESTRUCTION OF ALL WASTE MATTER.
The only scientifically-designed, and economical appliance available for this essential operation, is
THE “GDTHRIDG” PATENT DESTRUCTOR.
Made in all sizes: No. 1 50/- (Household Size)
No. 2 £5lO - (Garden Type)
Nos. 3, 4 # 5 £lO to £35 (Fire-bricK Lined).
Sold in large numbers to Commonwealth and State Departments, Schools, Doctors, Hospitals and Householders,
and everywhere giving great satisfaction.
Call and see samples, or write for illustrated price lists and information, to Sole Makers:
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., 350 George Street, Sydney.
(«)
