

7
The Spirit of Reputation
R. O. WATKINS «SC 00.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 K.ent Sydney,
—FOR— . . .
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
n
pniiiiitmimmmm
)'...mm
uuu «m\\l\\\\\|
i\\V
..Hill)
MONT de PIETE D & I C9T LIMITED,
74> 5L.,74. Sydney.
-ADVANCES -
SON ALL CLASSES
! OF SECURITY
POSSESSION
fc-
d
i \XW\i\uniUllllllfl
-«#«/////
frjflct/ejjt 215*17 Swansion Stjfjb.. 40 Adelaide St., Brisbane.
29 King St,Mev/casllc, 186 Castlereaqh 5t.,& 159 George St,West, Sydney,
CAPITAL S. 200, 000 ‘Phone City 932s .
£ustnce jffejr*ie££ , Gesies'&J
WARATAH
Fencing Wire
owes its superiority over
imported wire to its won-
derful strength, which
enables it to withstand a
greater strain. Every
coil is guaranteed full
length, and carries identi-
fication tag. Look for this
when purchasing. Wara-
tah has proved its
reliability for fences
everywhere, and it is
made in Australia.
Austral Nail Co. Pty. Ltd.
Argue
9 X
-MV
ppLE
e
$
«r
NoTumo
TO Aitcut
About!"
Are the Best
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
«i
HANSENS
ror INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Mavy men.
Used since 15961 CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
& GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England
Insist on “ Singleton’s ’’—refuse all substitutes.
IF it’s a leaky roof
—it is not
“Not the same as others.
m
• .'5.
ENGIN
D
GRANVILLE,
N.S.W.
2. rv
Railway Rolling Stock of all Descriptions.
Sugar Mill Machinery.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS.
Road Meta / and Farm Waggons.
■
Heavy Iron & Malleable Castings. Cast-iron Porcelain-Enamelled Baths, Sinks, etc.
Portable Steam Engines.
Arthur
Head Office,
SYDNEY.
MACHINERY.
Road-Graders for Building Good Roads,
MAKING AND GRADING BARTH ROADS, CLEANING OUT WATER TABLES.
Also for MAKING FIRE -BREAKS, Etc.
We carry large stocks of the best procurable ancl most up-to-date Machines.
SEVERAL DIFFERENT SIZES STOCKED, TO BE WORKED BY 2, 4 or 8
HORSES OB TRACTION-ENGINE POWER.
CATALOGUES AND FULL PARTICULARS UPON APPLICATION.
Queensland Enquiries; The Australian Machinery Co. Ltd., Mary Street, Brisbane.
“A.W.»
“T.Y.R.
IGH-SPEED
Taper Shank
Straight Shank
Ratchet Shank.
Large Stocks, and Shipments now on the water from Jin, up to 2Jin. rising by l-64in.
-SPEED ST
Rounds
Squares
Flats.
All sizes in stock and on the water.
LARGE STOCKS CARRIED.
MANUFACTURED BY
Sir W. G. ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH & CO. LTD.
MANCHESTER, ENGLAND.
Sole Representatives:
GILBERT LODGE & CO.,
506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne. 115 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
3rrax v
arv xNvsvand
AUSTRALIA'S B
The Bulletin
VoJ.4o.—No. 2038. ]
[ Thursday, March 6, 1919.
PRICE 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


BEFORE THE MIRROR
By “JEANNETTE.”
These are, undoubtedly, days of exceptional nervous strain for one and
all of us. Anxiety, with its beauty-destroying influence, is casting its shadow
over the lives of many of us women, and while perhaps a few —the more
stoical among us—can avoid worrying over past and prospective events, we
may all, with a little care and forethought, succeed in preventing the results
of worry from being noticeable in our appearance. To these fortunate
few this little chat will, however, be as interesting and instructive as to
those who stand in real need of help in toilet matters, and may be the
means of bringing to their notice some hitherto unknown method ot letam-
-ing or regaining that beauty of face and figure which is the birthright ot
every woman. Some of the ingredients mentioned below are, at present, not
generally known to the public, but any good chemist will usually be found to
have a small quantity in stock.
Some ■ Hints about the Hair.—An Excellent
Shampoo. —Few women realise liow all-impor-
tant a really good shampoo is if the hair is
to be kept in perfect condition. To shampoo
the hair properly, shelve it down, comb it out,
then dip the fingers into a little pure olive or
almond oil, and thoroughly massage the
scalp. Then mix a teaspoonful of stallax
granules in a cup of warm water. Fill a basin
with warm water, into which the ends of the
hair can fall, and shampoo the stallax mix-
ture into the roots in the usual way. Rinse,
and drv by fanning, or in the open air, if the
weather permits. Should the hair be excep-
tionally greasy, the oil massage of the scalp
should be omitted. Stallax can be bougnt at.
any chemist’s in quarter-pound sealed pack-
ages It keeps indefinitely, and one package
is sufficient for 25 or .30 shampoos.
A Tonic for Thin or Falling Hair.— When the
hair falls unduly, or has become thin and im-
poverished, a tonic should be applied every
night for six or eight weeks. To make a
simple and inexpensive but most efficacious
lotion, at home, take a quarter of a pint of
bay rum and add to it one ounce of boranium.
Shake thoroughly, and leave for 30 minutes;
then strain, and add sufficient water to make
half a pint. Every night massage the scalp
for 10 minutes, going over the entire head,
then dab the mixture into the roots with a
soft sponge. Regular brushing for a few
minutes every morning will also help to im-
prove the condition of the hair.
A Greasy Skin and Blackhead s.—A greasy
oily skin, with blackheads and enlarged
pores is a sore trial, and many a girl goes
through life with her appearance entirely
spoiled with these unsightly blemishes, which
may now be so quickly and effectively remove'.'
with but. little trouble. To remove blackheads
and the dull, dirty look of the skin which
accompanies them, dissolve one styrnol tablet
in a glass of hot water. Allow the efferves-
cence to subside, then dip a small soft sponge
into the liquid and bathe the face. Leave on
the skin for a few minutes, then dry with a
towel, and the blackheads will come right off.
For a greasy skin, bathe the face three times
a week with styrnol and spray with cold water
every morning, using a vulcanite throat spray.
The Secret of a. Good Complexion. —The secret
of a good complexion is so simple that, were
it only more widely known, there would be
no such thing as a rough, blotchy skin.
Nature has decreed that the outer cuticle,
when it shrivels and dies, shall be removed;
but so many women fail to realise this. To
remove, by absorption, the dead outer skin,
and preserve the complexion in all its. pris-
tine beauty, mereolized wax is recommended,
ordinary creams and lotions being quite in-
effectual for this , purpose. Smear the war
over the face and neck, rub it gently into the
skin, and leave for the night. In the morning
wash it off. using a good soap, such as
Pilenta, and all the dead skin will be removed
with the wax. Then apply a lotion to re-
move any trace of greasiness and brace up
the skin, making it firm and white. The lotion
can be made at home quite easily, by mixing
one ounce of cleminite in four tablespoonfuis
of hot water. Bottle, and, when cool, apply
to the face’ with a soft sponge, or the tips or
the fingers, allowing it to dry on the skin.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
C.B.—ciynol berries will reduce your weight.
They are harmless, and no alteration need be
made in your diet. They hare also one great
nutate over other flesh-reducers: they re-
duce so" gradually that there is no fear of
loose, flabby skin and wrinkles.
ZTILA—No, lam afraid I cannot tell you how
to prevent yourself from biting your nails.
You must exercise your will power.
CONSTANCE.—To remove the yellowness
from your skin, get a tin of mercolized wax
md apply it every night, rubbing it well into
lie skin. Leave it on till morning; then wash
t off: with warm water and a good soap. (J)
To give a color to the cheeks, get a little col-
liandum and rub some on a leather. Apply this
to the cheeks. It gives a perfectly natural-
looking flush to the face, and is quite unae-
>'et able. (?.)• To remove the blackheads, take
t stymol tablet and dissolve it in warm watei.
Vhen the effervescence has subsided mop the
lotion over the fare, allow to remain on for
a few minutes, then wipe off, and the black-
heads will disappear.
GEOIIGIE. —I am not surprised to hear that
the electrolysis treatments were not success-
ful. They seldom are. Get an ounce of phe-
rainol and a tube of tekko paste. Use
conjunction, and you will soon be rid of the
troublesome superfluous hair.
SHEILA—To restore your hair to its original
color, get two ounces of tammalite and mix it
with three ounces of bay rum. Apply to the
hair everv night or morning. In a couple «f
weeks there will be no sign of the greyne«s.
Tammalite is not a dye, but a natural re-
storer.
ELSIE.—To remove the roughness from your
skin, use a lotion made by mixing clemmite
with warm water. Allow the lotion to cool,
then bottle, and use after washing the face
every morning. I- 1
CHARM OF MANNER
may be enhanced by beauty of the face. A'
touch of SWAN DOWN gives just that :
delicacy and purity to the complexion which,*
being scarcely perceptible, is admired the more.
TETLOW’S
m
\ FACE POWDER
1 Imparts a delicate bloom to
I tie complexion. So 'Pare that
i it will not I arm fie most «
| deficate Slin.
ENGLISH
PRICE
|D
i P? r
2, box
In Five Tints.'
White, Cream, Pink,
Flesh and Brunette.
OTStones. Chemists
First Class Drapery Houses-
& Perfhmers everywhere.
Wholesale Dislributyn<s
Messrs. ELLIOTT liiiOS.. LTD.,
Sydney.
Messrs. WASHINGTON H. SOUL,
PATTINSON & CO., Sydney.
Messrs. ANTHONY HORDERN AND
SONS LTD., Sydney.
THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.,
Svdnev
LONDON WHOLESALE AGENTS!”
!
\
3
t
:
i
HemrC. Quclch & Co. 4 & s,Ludjate Sq., London, E.C.J
If any illustration appearing in 'xits
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will ouote you price for it.
An
After Dinner Pill
Most people eat too much. If
you are a hearty eater help your di-
gestion and take care of the over-
load, by taking one Pinkette, the
little sugar coated laxative pill after
a big dinner.
Pinkettes, the new laxative, are
greatly superior to old fashioned
medicines which over stimulate the
liver and, when their use is stopped,
leave it more torpid than before.
Pinkettes do not upset the stomach
or cause griping.
1/- per bottle at all dealers.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “The Bulletin.’
The Dr. Williams' Medicine Co.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
LL AUSTRALIANS visiting.
jrsL should read the British ausxkal-
6d. weekly—an illustrated papei
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
Sia and news of Australians m Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Heading Room at the Offices, Ho High Hol-
born l ond. -i, W.C., where they can see the
home pape j, meet , their friends, use tte
telephone, 'and obtain information without
charge.
NOT A GERMAN POWuER
MUSTDIE.
NON POISONOUS POWOtK.
mawimamimm
/ Flies.
1 Fleas.
| Bugs
“MUiSTDIE”
POWDER must not be mistaken fo \ insecticide
or common insect powders, some of whiu? ,are
under fancy names, for “MUSTDIE” eonu
an ingredient particularly fatal to that common
house pest aptly termed “The Typhoid Fly.”
FREE SAMPLE.
Write to “Mustdie,” Dept. H, Box 1520
G.P.0., Sydney, for a trial tin, forwarded post free;
or send 9d. in stamps for a full-size tin.
“MTJSTDIE” is sold everywhere by Chemists, Grocers, Storekeepers.
9d. w '
The Red Page
Art
What is beauty? Some shape, sound or
idea that has become pleasing to us by its
associations in our hereditary past. And as
that past has greatly varied for differing
individuals and peoples, so must the ideal
of beauty vary. What is your personal
standard of female perfection? lour
friend’s? Your next friend’s? Do not all
{he standards vary? And if you ask a
negro. Arab or Chinese, they vary radically.
Darwin states: “It is certainly .not true that
there is in the mind of man any universal
standard of beauty with respect to the
human body.” As to the Greeks in particu
lar, the human form was the nearest
approach to beauty, it is clear that beaut.v
has no common denominator.
Exain.de any art product, and it has tin
constant quality: A concealing that sug-
gests, and so stimulating the imagination or
recollection. Thus the art quality is not so
much the beauty, or the skill in the thing
itself as some thought of beauty or skill tha
it arouses in ourselves. Individuals (and
they are many) who cannot be stirred t<
thoughts of beauty lack the art sense; fm
the art quality is dependent on the imagina
tion of the person appealed to, and tha;
imagination is the sum of our impression:
preserved in the subconsciousness from :
vasr hereditary past. A good photograph, in
spite of faults in the process, is a truer cop.\
of nature than the best black-and-wliit
drawing. But, however beautiful as a photo-
graph, it lacks the art quality because it
lacks suggestion. No one ever becann
entranced with it. Yet the far inferioi
drawing may cast a spell; though it is onl>
a portrait of a clumsy peasant digging in a
field. For the artist suggests to you th
world-host of weary toilers and their crush
ing burden. Subconsciously you are re
minded of what seems yourself when yoi
were once wearied almost to death, youi
limbs hanging dead-weights to your side, the
body bowed, the feet shuffling, and on youi
shoulders pressed the misery of the world
And so feeling, and looking, you know that
there is a soul in that picture, the soul oi
yourself as you have endured and
That is Art. Great music is not wonderful
in itself. Its quality lies in the music it
stirs in us; the far greater melodies and
harmonies it suggests. If it does not tall
to you like that, there is no art in music
Eor you.
A concealing that suggests is noticeable in
the art of dress. A woman hiding part oi
her face with a veil, or concealing it behind
a fan. may stir the interest of onlookers far
more than with the fully exposed features.
Consider a woman’s evening gown. Its
specialty, however the cut varies, is a show-
ing of a third or more of the undraped bust.
And it is effective because the shown sug-
gests the hidden. Expose the whole body to
the waist, as some Eastern women do, and
the effect is destroyed. .
It is suggestion that gives exaltation to
aur for suggestion is stronger
than reality to those with active subcon-
scious memories recalling, impressions many
times experienced. Many ruins please more
than the complete buildings.; for ruins, or
objects resembling them, have more famili-
arity in our vast past. In that past we have
heard many times the sounds of storms, the
waves on the shore, the call of birds in
Spring, the roar of beasts, and the noise of
falls or running water. And such sounds
would generally have pleasant associations.
Revive the sounds, or a semblance of them,
and you revive the subconscious memories
of the allied pleasures. So comes our de-
light in sounds and form; so comes our
capacity for pleasure or happiness. So also
comes our power to experience mental pain
and misery. One is not possible without the
other.
A well-shaped woman standing erect with
her feet together gives an outline of the
amphora, a Greek vase. No other outline is
more beautiful to our eyes; and that, pro-
bably, not because of any special property in
these curves, but because in our past, in our
love for our mothers and sweethearts, that
outline has been constantly associated with
them. Theoretically, man’s shape is no more
ideal than that of a gorilla; and in the eyes
of that animal we are probably as repulsive
as he is to us, and with just as good reason.
In their way, the horse, dog and cat seem to
us perfect in form, while the elephant and
camel are clumsy and misshaped. That is
to the white man. But Asiatics show by
their love of making carvings of the ele-
phant and poetry about the camel a great
admiration for those beasts. A people seeing
a horse for the first time have always
thought it monstrous. Artistically the kan-
garoo, when erect, with his nearly pyramid
form, has the outline sculptors aim at: yet
because of unfamiliarity the creature looks
grotesque.
It will be difficult to find a concealing that
suggests in many statues, and for that
reason the majority are d spleasing. But
now and then the artist has triumphed over
his material. I stood for an hour entranced
before the Venus of Milo, in the Louvre, that
rather ungainly maimed woman, with th«
man’s body and big feet; and I wondered,
and I wondered, and I-wonder still by what
trick the artist had caught me. Undoubtedly
it is a suggestion given by this battered
stone; a suggestion the more powerful
because indefinable. I fancy there must be
in the face some look of tenderness that as
children we have seen many times in our
mother’s.
BIOLOGIST.
Samoa
A History of Samoa is written as you
won Id expect it to be by a “some-time acting-
judge of the District Court” of the Islands.
It is a plain statement of the multitude of
changed which have taken place in the
government of the group, with only here
and there a flash of tropical color —a plain
statement showing, nevertheless, a great
amount of careful exploration in tortuous
channels. The average Maorilander knows
Samoa better than the average Australian
loes. The islands are small and not attrac-
Itive enough to take the Australian so far
a held. But if lie has sailed away across the
Pacific by a San Francisco boat he will have
sweltered for a day in land-locked Pago
Pago; or a Union boat may have given him
an interesting hour or two at Apia. Pago
is the one good harbor of Tutuila, which is
the chief of the islands over which tne
U.S.A. flag flies; Apia is the < capital ot
what was for a few years German Samoa
until the Australia poked her nose in at the
start of the Great War and landed a Maori-
lahd army of occupation. Robert Mackenzie
Watson’s* book is devoted almost wholly to
the two islands, Savaii and Upolu, which
have come into British occupation. A chap-
ter devoted to Tutuila is supplied mainly
bv Alexander Stronach, Judge of the High
md District Courts of American Samoa.
It is interesting to note by the way the
xtent to which American Samoa really is
American. With one eye on the Monroe
doctrine and the other on —well, we neecin t
say what or whom —the U.S.A. has been
content to merely put its navy in possession.
The whole story well illustrates Germany s
long and deep-laid plans to possess the
>arth. During the Boer War Germany let
'he Dutchmen know that its sympathy
leaned their way. There was nothing to be
>ot from the Boers ; there was something to
be got from the British. Interests in
18a moa ! Samoa—what did Samoa matter i
bo Salisbury threw the morsel to Germany
o placate it, and then announced at a Lord
dayor’s banquet on November 9, 1899: —
This morning you have learned of thA arrange-
lent concluded between us and one of the Con-
cental States with whom more than with others we
ave for years maintained sympathetic and friendly
Nations. The arrangement is above all altering
s an indication that our relations with the German
.ation are all that we could desire,
nstead of the intended partition of the
hi moan Islands between the three Powers,
fritain thus handed over her share to Ger-
any, while the U.S.A. took control of
Tutuila and all other islands of the gioup
ast of longitude 171 deg. west ot Green-
wich,” But, mindful of the Monroe doc-
rine, Congress has never formally accepted
‘he cession. What it has done has been,
rhrough the President, to place the territory
In the hands of the U.S. navy, which now
■ontrols it. The natives are therefore not
American citizens.” nor do the laws of the
J.S. apply to them. This paper’s own m-
uiiries show that the administration has
ieen altogether to the advantage ot the
iatives.
The German had, of course, beer, ror
. ears gradually working an to the complete
■ontrol of western Gcunoa. He knew what
lie wanted; and he beat Britain by reason
of having a plan and working to it. It, all
began with a little trading station estab-
lished by August Unshelin in 1854. Appa-
rently Unshelm didn’t dream dreams; but lus
uiccessor, Theodor Weber, did. Weber was
i young man, and had the new German
spirit. He was the founder of what is
known throughout the Western Pacific as
the D.H. and P.G. —otherwise “the German
firm”; something that stands for even a
little more than “8.P.” does in parts nearer
Australia. Of course, Weber was, among
other things, the Imperial German Consul.
His business was to advance the German
plan; the business of the British and Ameri-
can Consuls was to go straight. So while
the- German intrigued with the chiefs the
others mostly stood by. Very rarely they
showed their teeth —William Blacklock, now
an Islands agent in Sydney, formerly Ameri-
can Consul at Apia, did it on one memor-
able occasion. But the German was not
then working against the clock. He could
I wait. , _
Of course, there is a little about Robert
Louis Stevenson and a little about the
wonderful thing the Calliope did, and some
more about the British occupation. And,
being written before the American Pro-
fessor had introduced us to “mandates,”
there is in the end a pious hope that, if the
British flag is not to remain aloft, then the
Great Republic—“whose record in Samoa
has been clean beyond question”—may he left
“to secure in this remote portion of the
earth the rationalism and liberty to which
she and all her Allies stand pledged.”
The publishers are Whitcombe _ and
Tombs; and they have made an addition to
the books of permanent value.
The Russian Mystery
One day lately the cables told of a new set
of Bolshevik regulations dealing with women.
It was alleged that they had been commu-
nised, and a tariff fixed for their use.
Within a day or two the secretary of the
Labor party had pooh-poohed the story and
said that the regulations referred only to
prostitutes. This may have been a good
guess; but apparently it was only a guess.
The Australian Labor man simply couldn’t
believe that the original story was true. Yet
a whole lot of things have been done in
Russia during the last two years that are
not understandable; and The Dark
People, by Ernest Poole (Macmillan’s, New
York), is valuable because it enables
one to understand why things that are not
understandable are happening. In a series
of threaded together by descrip-
tive m .iter, one gets at the minds of a great
varic v of Russian people—in particular,
“th dark people,” as the peasants are called
at ;ome.
And the book is all the more valuable
because it is written with sympathy. For
instance, there is the talk of General Verk-
hovsky, who was Kerensky’s Minister for
War:
Three-fourths of the Russian soldiers did not
knew how to read or write, and they had no con-
ception of the State. They knew only that they
had a Ozar and that they must obey him or they
would be Boggled. They ’id not understand at ail
why we were at war vith Germany When the
revolution broke out, to the ignorant peasant soldier
the new freedom meant sheer anarchy, freedom from
duties of every kind. The Bolsheviki urged him to
rise against the bourgeoisie. And the only bour-
geoisie at the Front were the officers, who had better
pay and better meals and living quarters. So the
soldiers turned them out.
Soon after that we heard of soldiers’ com-
mittees and of votes taken before an ad-
vance. Actually it was men like General
Verkhovsky, sincerely desirous of keeping
Russia in the war, who approved the com-
mittees and helped to form them. They saw
(Continued on page 26 J


7
k
m
K
5^
»?f^»§B§s|aft ; <* -;®v, '.'
Wom^MoMm
SSv.rr•••ifea*^
¥M
iiy
spf
V.<
-' ."'• -• '■
Hisfiwssw
C^as
"A.sr*
-fe
•tit;?
as-v:
K
hbb
■KW
SSSj
mm
Wm ;<##
4 >
IP
ss
p@
!£'•
SSK
■
immm
Ilk, *•
* .'
? .SIS'
V &
if"
■ , E*
mm;
tem&ks&u ■
SSLA
»«}
p§p^-
p-m|
rll
'’rV®
mi
mi*
E&S
g&3
2- S««
«-
S.>ss'.
fV-<--;<S.;V
•vAy^y.
m
II
t§& •■
I;
%
m,
&§m a
m
•i\i
mm
: -:V y
\aa«
««
xr . *'
a>i'A..
M
sfiv <■:
l; ?
■93?6 E
♦?-'re
mJ-eSk?
v-
: : .‘*p a
um
n
mx
mM
m
■-,■>- h : ;
§pm
.fS
<£* ?■??!
*H- «**
Jv'TV
*y.
#c
till
:-
. ;>
SSE
■v>i.
V w£MW&
Ssr«v.
5 \
P&S
02f
sx-vS»<f
fm
Only Universal Providers
BRICKFIELD HI IIT ,*
New Pal ace Emporium,
SYDNEY N.S.W.
:
\
z
I
W
a*
m
Anthony Horderns’
Autumn and Winter
Fashion Catalogue.
NTHONY HORDERNS’ Fashion Cata-
logue for Autumn and Winter illustrates
the many charming styles that have been
created for the new season’s wear, and should
therefore be perused by ladies who wish to combine
Fashion and Economy. This authoritative guide to
the newest modes will be posted free on request.
Write for a copy now.
Ladies who still prefer their gowns made to order
horn materials of their own selection can be assured
that our Order Dressmaking Department will give their
requirements the fullest consideration. Country
customers may rely upon a satisfactory cut and fit if
correct measurements are sent.
There are several other helpful catalogues just
published that will well repay perusal. Write at once
for your copy. Here is the list :
Men’s Wear.
Harness and Stable Requisites.
Groceries and Patent Medicines.
Fruit Preserving.
Mattings and Rugs.
Stoves and Ranges.
Our Mail Order Service caters for the
expeditious and efficient dispatch of orders.
We pay carriage on Family Drapery, Fashion
Goods, Women’s and Men’s Wear, Boots and
Shoes, Cutlery and Jewellery to any part of
New South Wales or to any port in the other
States.


Quality Roofing'
) that Resists the Elements.
Quality in a roofing is measured^by its dependable service, year in and year out, under all
climatic changes and conditions.
“Adamax” Booting has proved its quality under most adverse conditions, and we honestly
recommend it to every builder seeking a roof that gives him best value.
It saves money—in first cost —in cost of upkeep —in cost of laying.
“Adamax” can be laid perfectly flat, which means less roofing required and less roofing timber
—then “Adainax” gives considerably greater service than galvanised-iron, yet it costs only
one-third the price and one-third for freight charges.
Free descriptive pamphlet, giving full facts, also free samples, from Desk “B.”
William Adams O. Co. Ltd.,
175 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE: 521=3 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE : 96 Currie Street.
BRISBANE: Cr. Edward & Mary Streets.
PERTH: 33 King Street.


mm
Hat by Mirette, 104, i
Wardour Street, 1
London, W. i. \
Photo: Mile Paulette
del Baye, by uertramA
Park .
RAINPROOF
“Dynamo” is the one
Tulle that is positively
rainproof. It is fadeless.
It is colour fast.
When wet, you simply
shake it to and fro till it
is dry, when it immediately
regains its original crisp,
fresh effect.
Best for millinery because
of its durability.
Best for scarves because
of its freedom from sticki-
ness.
Best for every purpose
because it is the most
economical in use.
36 ins. wide. In Black, White,
and all fashionable shades.
AT ALL PRICES.
If any difficulty in obtaining,
send P. 0., stating quantity and
colour desired, to
“ DYNAMO *
(Enquiry Dept.),
Carlton House,
York Street,
SYDNEY.
dquaperia
(MARROCAic, ENGLAND)
BRITISH APERIENT MINERAL WATER
Supplants Apenta, Hunyadi Janos and other
German and Austrian Waters.
Editorial Note from “ Lancet,” March 20,1915 :
‘‘The water is drawn from a spring at
Harrogate. The constituents are well
balanced in accordance with Therapeutic
requirements.” Sold by all Chemists.
Distributing Agents :—R. E. JONES & CO.,
Daily Telegraph Buildings, King St., Sydney.
Dot lied by CAMWAL, Limited, at their
Spring, HARROGATE, England.
4l&ir
i
m
m
mm
an
or b. Auxm
9
m
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
The Largest and Most Successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
HEAD OEEICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., ‘Chairman ; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman; Hon. R. J.
Black, M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Jas. Burns, K.C.M.G., M.L.C.; Adrian Knox, Esq., K.C., C.M.G.; Sir Samuel
Hordern; Richard Teece, Esq.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., Actuary.
Accumulated Funds, £38,000,000,
H. W. APPERLY, General Manager.
Annual Income, £5,500,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Although nearly .-£1,000,000 was paid during 1917 in war claims alone, the Cash Bonus divided for the
year 1917, including Interim Bonuses, was £585,397. Total Bonuses distributed, £22 138 000.
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards. ’
Sold by
Stationers and
J e w e l le r s
Everywhere.
Australian Prices:
Safety Pattern
with slip • on
cap from 15/-
Standard Pat-
ternwith slip-on
cap from 12/6
Illustrated
Catalogue sent
Post Free on
request.
You can have a “Swan” that
will suit you better than any
other pen you are using.
Every person s handwriting is peculiar. Every-
one feels that only one type of pen point will
suit his own style of writing. After obtaining
the point he likes, he becomes so attached to
his pen that he cannot write without it. No
other pen will serve his purpose.
I®
Get one to-day and it becomes in a few days
not A fountain pen but YOUR pen —a writing
instrument peculiarly your own.
MABIE, TODD & CO.. LTD.,
79 & 80, High Holborn, London, Eng.
Manchester; Paris, Zurich, Toronto, &c. Sydney— (Wholesale only),
225 a, George Street. London Factory — 319-329, Weston
Street, S.E. Associate House—Mabie.Todd & Co.,
Inc., New York and Chicago.
Australian Branch:
J. A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings, 255 a George Street, Sydney. «
THE SIGN OF
PERFECTION
BOSTOCKS VIOLO
WHITE Footwear Dressing.
Make and keep your shoes A PERFECT WHITE—
use BOSTOCK’S VIOLO WHITE LIQUID DRESSING.
It gives an added smartness to your shoes, and does
not rub off. Economical in use.
Bostock’s Violo Polishes Ltd., Sydney
PRIORITY OF DELIVERY
of Sunbeam cars can be promised
only to those who are wise enough to
order now. As soon as we are in a
position to again build the Supreme
SUNBEAM
for private service we shall do so,
but even when that time arrives, the
orders we have received, and are daily
receiving, must of necessity have first
attention. The moral is for you.
The SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO. LTD.,
Export Department : 54-62, Oxford Street, London, England
Head Office ■ Wolverhampton, England
VARIOUS BERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Color.
Black is the master of the crowded hall
Where all the colors meet; he is the Head,
For mauve is tame, magenta badly bred,
Purple and brown to vapid languors fall,
And pink and meretricious yellow brawl ;
Sly blue and lissom green and lazy red
Are only friends in some chance flower-bed ;
Grey, but the toneless echo of them all.
Black is the august, universal friend
Who softly brings to humankind his store
Of quiet amity and comfort deep ;
Who kisses mother night, and makes her lend
The sable fabric from her wardrobe door
To veil the sweet half-death that men
call sleep.
MAOKILAND.
O. N. GILLESPIE.
Temptation in the Wilderness.
And so I served them all day long, the city
and the mart,
Sullen and sick I played it out, the silly
tradesman part ....
But, ah! at night the ships, the ships, they
sailed across my heart!
Without the panes there screamed a gull; I
shut the window tight.
Now God forgive that tugging tide <t.id winds
that blew that night —
They dragged my soul from the sleeping toion
to the cliffs in the breaking light.
Far out to sea the still dawn flared; I
climbed an unknown steep.
And there below I saw them lie in a phan-
tom port asleep—
The beautiful and wicked ships, like snakes
along the deep.
Yea, brigantine and barquentine, schooner
and ketch and yawl,
Long days out from a thousand ports—
some from no port at all—
They hurt my heart with loveliness, the
ships so tall, so tall,
More to desire than women are. Ah, so I
knew them then
For the siren fleets of longings vague that
steal the souls of men.
That harp them out to follow the tide, nor
bring them home again.
“When the wind blows,’’ one said to me,
“the taut-strung rigging sings,
Yards creak, the bells strike as they roll —
ah, sweeter than the strings
Of violins—and whoso pays may buy their
charterings.
“He may buy the white thresh under tl e
bows and the white stars overhead
And the great sea’s holy sacrament of dan-
gerous wire and bread
And the little wind before the storm.” “I
dare not pay,” I said.
“Somewhere,” he said, “on a lonely beach is
built a driftwood pyre;
And you might make it in the dawn and,
steering by its fire.
Find —God knows what. Perhaps, O fool,
you might find your heart’s desire.”
So I sold him the heart of my own true
love and the laughter out of her eyes.
All I had done, all I had won, all that a
man might prize—
Honor and faith and ease of days—and the
laughter out of her eyes!
And he laughed and whistled a schooner out,
my schooner, mine to me,
Ah, lithe and live and passionate, she came
for mastery....
Reckless and singing, I took the wheel and
turned her head for sea,
Steered for the perilous foam and the stars,
for the salt and the open sea!
N.S.W.
JEAN CURLEWIS.
A Southern Plain.
Sloping adown in airy round
The far, faint sky leans to the ground,
Through crystal depths, remote, profound.
Calm, like a dreamy spell,
Reigns where the unchecked eye can see
Mile upon mile unbrokenly-
No sound but the drone of a stray, wild bee
Rifling a filmy bell.
The changing seasons wax and wane.
Now summer gilds the shimmering plain ;
Now the soft curtains of the rain
Draw rustling fold to fold.
And dawn and dusk alternate flare
Fierce triumph on the limpid air
Lifting their gonfalons that bear
Scarlet and blazing gold.
Anon, migrating birds go by—■
A dark triangle moving high
Through the vast solitudes of sky,
And calling as they pass.
Now wide cloud shadows drift and fade,
Dappling the plain with transient shade,
While softly whispers blade to blade
The young wind-ruffled grass.
Time in these spaces seems to fold
His tired wings; life seems to hold
No power o’er these leagues unrolled.
Changeless their outline swells,
Forever still, and seems to be
The symbol of eternity, .
Where from all stir discordant-free,
Unending silence dwells.
VICTORIA,
SYD. C.


&
&
c
The Perdriau Super Tread
is a New Note in Tyre Efficiency.
When we discovered the Super Tread Compound we tested
it by making a tyre shod partly with the usual tread
rubber and partly with Super Tread.
After running 3000 miles the three ribs of the former were
considerably worn, but those of the Super Tread were
still clear and sharp and the grooves as deep as ever.
That is how we first proved the great wear-resisting qualities of the Perdriau Super Tread,
We are supplying Perdriau Super Tread Tyres in all sizes.
Obtainable from your Local Garage or from the Manufacturers—
Perdriau Rubber Go. Ltd. an states
Elastic
LJ
T.
uss
Our Private Truss Pamphlet
is free for the asking—
send for a copy now.
Ruptured Persons
—Your Safeguard.
AFTER all. Rupture is not such a serious matter,
and afflicted persons need not view their mis-
fortune with dismay—provided proper pre-
cautionary measures are adopted.
It is vitally important that an efficient safeguard be
secured without delay—and for this purpose nothing
yet introduced equals in efficiency
Denycrs’ Elastic Truss.
Let Denyers’ Truss be YOUR safeguard.
It will go far towards relieving you of your Rupture
worries, making’ you feel like a new person altogether.
Don’t hesitate. For your health’s sake adopt the safest
of all safeguards—DENYEßS’ ELASTIC TRUSS.
Single, 20/-; Double. 27/6.
DENYER BROS.,
M S kers of Trusses, Abdominal
Beits and Artificial Limbs,
281 George Street, Sydney,
\\uxfs* - _ ij
aa
IN
Ham, -©,
?_ Tong
VEAV.
•BACON
And
u £
It Adds to the Jons of
Week-Ending.
0 Take a few tins of Rex Camp Pie with you next week end.
See hoiv it saves cooking and food prepa/ation. Everyone
enjoys
€<
REX
99
a CAMP PIE ■
They enjoy its fl ivor and tenderness—they find that It satis-
fies and sustains. Rex Camp Pie is most economical. It is Wm
all good wholesome meat prepared in the special Rex way.
SOLD BY GROCERS EVERYWHERE
FOGG ITT, JONES & CO., LTD.
Packers of "Rex" Pure Food Products
Curers of "Rex" Ham and Bacon
□
eoi
□
£
F.
-/
r
r
IfheVerdict
bASEP CN
/ IT »S
\fy\PT A^
tRE^ 5 ,
25V
THE MOTOR
WORLD HAS
HANDED DOWN
ITS DECISION
GOODRICH
FULL-SIZE
Black SAFETY
Tread Tyres.
SAFETY—
WHEN THE ROAD IS DRY YOU WON’T SKID —
BUT —WINTER BRINGS WITH IT THE RAIN. MUD
AND SLUSH.
m
Q.
r\ .
y i
W§ :[
Then comes that feeling of insecurity
when driving on wet and slippery roads,
with the sickening slide when rounding
corners, making motoring a nightmare.
WHY NOT STOP THE SKID?
GOODRICH has solved the
problem with
THE GOODRICH
SAFETY TREAD
JUST LOOK AT THE FINGERS
MOULDED ON THE TREAD.
THERE'S SENSE IN THE
PRINCIPLE.
THE FINGERS GRIP ON THE
MOST SLIPPERY ROADS.
THE SKID DOESN'T EVEN START.
RIDE CARE-FREE-AND SAFE.
EQUIP YOUR CAR WITH
GOODRICH SAFETY TREADS.
DUVAL CO.
145 Collins St.,
MELBOURNE
13 Castlereagh St.,
SYDNEY.
300 Adelaide St.,
BRISBANE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 40.—N0. 2038.
THURSDAY, MARCH 6, 1919.
Price 6d.
THAT QUESTION.
“Wilhelm, under the shadow of the gallows, cries that he is not guilty.... But no one even in Germany doubts the Kaiser’s guilt.... The Crown Prince shows primary
concern for his own skin. Poor Little Willie, on his own showing, was frequently told to mind his own business.”
THE CROWN RABBIT: “What did YOU do in the great war, papa?”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosnian, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have The Bulletin
sent regularly to you every week for a year, to any
ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, post paid.
Cheques, drafts , etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused. ■
The- contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence'’ column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form. of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse. Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone, supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit- and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction- — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; .Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada.- — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., Rf Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.B.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu..
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
liounQ, Cairo, Egypt.
llono Kong. —Brewer and Co., Redder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin {registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
lOoz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — oihervnse; Soz., lid.; Bioz. to 10oz., 3d.;
lOoz. to 120 z., Hid.; elsewhere, )oz., lid., and id. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, MARCH 6, 1919.
THE FREETRADERS’ PROTEC-
TIONIST TARIFF.
The Australian Government announces that,
at some date not clearly specified, it will
take off its coat and do something to the
Tariff. As an evidence of its sincerity and
its haste it is in leisurely converse with
those two incurable Freetraders, Hughes
and Cook', who have been absent so long that
the decay of Australian industry has prob-
ably escaped their notice. Also it is,
of course, in communication with its local
colleague, the incurable Freetrader Millen,
who holds that the correct way to treat
returned soldiers is to sell them high-priced
land. The tariff question has been hung up
during years while, by reason of the war,
the country was paying ruinous prices to
foreign profiteers for scanty supplies, and the
cost of living went up 62 per cent., and the
worker’s wages in consequence became hope-
lessly inadequate for his needs ; yet all this
time the country couldn’t begin to supply
itself because, under the lunatic tariff, new
industries paying Australian wages would
be killed dead as soon as the blockade was
lifted. It has been carefully hung up
until, the blockade being lifted, imports are
pouring in at the rate of £100,000,000 a year,
so that the political Pecksniffs will be able
to say that, in view of the new abundance of
foreign supplies, there is really no hurry
about industries of our own. The Federal
Pecksniffs, in fact, will be able to take up
the attitude of State Minister Ashford,
of N. S. Wales, whose view is that
there is no need to hurry on with wire-
netting manufacture to supply Australian
workers with good Australian wages, because
big foreign consignments are expected, and
big foreign loans are expected to pay for
them, so the Australian can resume wharf-
lumping with a light heart, or go on the land
at £l4 per acre and grow wheat.
The off-hand explanation has always been
that the tariff couldn’t be touched till the
war was over. YYhy ii couldn t be touched
was never clearly explained because no
decent explanation was possible. _ There
would have been logic in postponing the
building of so-called “developmental’ rail-
ways with loan money till after the war,
for the construction with 5J per cent, money
of railways that aren’t expected to yield 3
per cent., into country that is being aban-
doned by the population instead of developed,
was the most foolish proposition ever devised.
There would have been reason in shutting
down hard on the creation of costly new jobs.
There would have been reason in going very
slow on the purchase of absurdly expensive
bits of land to put soldiers on, seeing that
the principal things that are grown on the
land are the only things which Australia
produces in excess of its requirements, and
it is a poorly-paid kind of business anyhow.
But the making of the things of which Aus-
tralia has a £70,000.000 or £80,000,000
shortage each year—the things for which
there is an assured market here instead of a
miserably precarious one half-a-globe away—-
was urgent. It was the one matter that
called for immediate attention, even if it
might lead to dissension and endanger
Hughes’s sordid portfolio and Jensen’s
job. Still it is to come up for consideration at
last; that is to say, in course of time. But
this paper has small hopes that anything
radical will come freely from the crowd
which has thrown the country’s interests
into- the gutter for 44 years, while industries
were dying and the necessities of life were
being pushed »p by foreign profiteers _ to
famine prices and scarcity was promoting
unrest everywhere. The Government must
do something, or want of payable em-
ployment may lead to revolt; but unless
the leopard has changed h’S spots the
interests of its old friends, the im-
porters and the land-jobbers and the
money-lenders, will come first. It is the
urgent business of every Australian who
believes in his country to see that that
tendency is counteracted. In particular, it
is the urgent business of every returned
soldier to put all the pressure he can upon
this Government. If he doesn’t he may
depend upon it that many a Digger will
either go very short of a job in the days ahead
or take a job at a price that will mean doing
without the decencies of life.
* * * *
No country ever created manufactures,
unless the making of gas and the repairing of
boots are manufactures, save by one of two
devices —high Protection or very cheap labor.
Australia doesn’t at present possess cheap
labor. It still tries to live up to the stan-
dard of the early gold days. In that halcyon
time, with no great foreign interest bill to
meet, the digging up of surface metal with
a shovel supplied almost as much net income
per head as all industries combined do
now, and between gold and public land sales
and loans and the influx of more or less
moneyed immigrants living was rich for
everybody, and any except the most primi-
tive forms of industry seemed superfluous.
The habit of having high ideals of comfort
and keeping clear of all save the primitive
forms of industry still prevails. Australia
probably shows a bigger proportion of people
following unskilled and unproductive devices
that don’t merit high pay than any other
white man’s community of any importance.
It is the deck-swabber on a ship—too proud
to learn the engineer’s job. yet hoping for
his earnings. Some of its doings are sug-
gestive of comic opera. It gets its copper
coins made for it by cheap niggers in India
because it has never made a machine (though
it thinks of importing one) which will print
copper coins. It ran short of coppers last
Christmas and had to implore the niggers, by
cable, to hurry up with some small change—
this though copper is one of our chief metals.
The reason why meat smells so badly and
causes so much stomach-ache just now is
that ice is scarce —water is produced
locally, but the supply of imported freezing
machinery ran short. Woollen manufac-
tures have been in grievous difficulties dur-
ing war-time for want of imported machin-
ery. By way of variety a new industry
which was opened two years ago for the
benefit of partially-disabled soldiers —the
making of specially high-class hand-woven
tweeds—has practically collapsed for want
of a good ouality of imported yarn. It was
booming till this trouble struck it and yield-
ing a good profit, but instead of the several
hundred workers it might employ there are
now only six. Big ships are on the free
import list, so Australia never got into the
habit of building big ships. And for want
of them the farmer got 3s. a bushel on
account, with a hope of something more, for
his 1917 wheat crop, while the London
market, which he couldn’t reach, was in a
spasm of anguish and offering a steady aver-
age of Bs. lOd. Thht and the high cost of
imported goods broke the bucolic person’s
heart. The fact that people are standing up
and breathing germs into each other’s ears
in dilapidated railway cars for lack of
imported vehicles is an old story. So is the
circumstance that sheep are diminishing and
meat is scarcer than it need be because, for
lack of sufficient imported netting, the rabbit
myriads have a first lien on the grass.
These are casual items among hundreds, but
the comic-opera incident of the lot is
the spectacle of this great White Australia
beseeching a foreign colored artisan to hurry
up with some small coinage to pay tram-
fares with.
* * * *
None of these things moved the Hugiies-
Watt-Cooic Government, and they are not
likely to move it to any great purpose now.
It lacks that streak of national pride which
should make it ashamed to see its country
sitting like a beggar at the door of great-
ness, beseeching for wire-netting and yarn,
and molasses, and tabs for bootlaces, and
ships and blotting-paper, and frequently
offering its lOU in payment. It is neces-
sary to make a show of doing something,
seeing that out of our poor array of factories
420> closed up during the first three years of
the war, but whatever it does is likely to be
done with the enthusiasm that the Huns
showed in giving up their fleet. The life idea of
the leaders of the Coalition having been to
prove that Protection is a failure, the kind of
Protection they will willingly supply will be
built to be a failure—rdausible outside but
shoddy within. It is the business of every-
one “who sees a larger and better future for
Australia—who realises that the Australian
is fitted to do the finest jobs in the world
and not merely the roughest—to urge this
Government up to the collar and keep it
there. "
CLEANING UP A CONTINENT.
Syphilis became a notifiable disease in N.
S. Wales on March 1. Nothing but the-
conservatism of the older members of the
medical profession delayed this reform so
long. There was, of course, the opposition
of Wowserdom ; but it was a transparently
ill-informed and illogical opposition at the
best—a series of archaic howls about the
advisability of leaving Providence to its
rightful business of punishing the “sinner”
—and it carried little weight. Wowserdom
will again range itself against the logical
corollary of compulsory notification; and
once more it will depend largely on the
doctors whether reform comes next year,
some time, or never.
* * * *
The registration of prostitutes, without
which compulsory'notification must be shorn
of half its value as a prophylactic against
the distribution of venereal disease, is an
unpleasant affair. More particularly for
the prostitutes. But if a woman elects to
get her living by the exercise of a quasi-
criminal calling, she has no right to expect
a refinement of consideration from the com-
munity. Under registration her liberty will
be no more interfered with than that of
every citizen has been since the N. S. Wales
State Government started its anti-influenza
measures. A graver objection is that regis-
tration, with penalties for non-compliance,
may lead to the blackmailing of non-prosti-
tutes, and even of virtuous women. But
blackmail is an ever-present menace in all
civilised communities. The way to cdpe
with it—as Justice Dawkins proved in
England in the early ’nineties —is by a stern
exercise of existing laws ; not by a timorous
reluctance to pass new ones. Registration
will in itself do away, so far as the prosti-
tute class is concerned, with a large volume
of existing blackmail, wfiich has the demerit,
from the public standpoint, of being as safe
as it is lucrative —blackmail by lodgingliouse-
keepers, by souteneurs, and even by the
police.
Registration should be carried out by the
officials concerned in the impersonal spirit
attending any other sanitary reform. In
France, Germany and elsewhere it has been
found that the licensed houses tend to con-
gregate in the same quarter, which simplifies
the duties of the inspectors. Every profes-
sional woman would be required to have a
card with her photograph on it and an
endorsement that she was not diseased on a
given date. Anyone convicted of unlicensed
prostitution would be severely punished.
This would apply both to so-called “ama-
teurs”—notoriously the most diseased of all
members of the community—and to profes-
sionals who, for whatever reason, were
unable to produce their cards when re-
quired. Each house would be inspected for
health and for alcohol, at short intervals,
and venereal cases at once removed to hospi-
tal. Properly equipped and staffed lock
hospitals should be instituted at suitable
centres, obviating the scandalous clinic epi-
sodes that have been occurring in Sydney of
late, and the medical men in them ought to
be salaried Government officials. The
nucleus of an invaluable staff could be got
from amongst military orderlies who have
had their training in dermatological hospi-
tals overseas. It might be necessary in,
say, Sydney and suburbs to start with three
hospitals. Within three years there would
hardly be sufficient work for one. Simul-
taneously with the institution of registra-
tion, all chemists treating V.D., in any way
whatever, should stand to lose their licenses.
■**•**
It is often argued, loosely, that registra-
tion would amount to State encouragement
of vice. The generalisation is inaccurate as
applied to Australia. In any community
entertaining British ideas on moral questions
the first effect of making prostitution busi-
ness-like must be to make it sordid and
nauseating. The British and European
point of view, in this respect, was well ex-
pounded by Arnold Bennett in “The
Pretty Lady.” The streets where the prosti-
tutes congregated would not, with us, be
haunts of gaiety. Thousands of women who
at present ply the oldest of trades because
it offers an easy means of making money, in
addition to plenty of expensive meals and
wines, would be virtuous rather than live in
a marked house and under a teetotal regime.
And thousands of men who at present help
to make prostitution profitable would think
several times before they risked being seen
in the sort of neighborhood which is the
outcome of registration. In a community
such as this vice is not encouraged by being
degraded.
But above everything stands the great
ideal—the abolition of venereal
gradual transformation of Australia into the
one clean continent on earth. Dr.
speaking on the second reading of the Y.D.
Biff in the N. S. Wales Assembly, said :
The sights to be seen in the institutions for
the blind, the deaf and the dumb demonstrate the
tragedy of it. In them are people who through
hereditary infection were a few hours after birth
deprived of ever knowing the joys of the world.
No measures to clean the community, and no pre-
cautions against the spread of the disease, could he
too drastic.
Compulsory notification should bring to the
hospitals a tremendous volume of disease
which is at present being neglected. To that
extent it must prove a blessing; on the one
band mitigating the sufferings of the
diseased, and on the other preventing
them from infecting others. But noti-
fication, by itself, is merely a stopgap.
The aim of the State should be not
to merely cure the disease where it
occurs, but to kill it—as plague has been
killed in Australia and as pneumonic influ-
enza. may be killed. Syphilis, which in its
ultimate effects is more dreadful than any
variety of plague, can be killed, and with
comparative ease. But before the happy
release occurs Australians will have to
swallow a stiff dose of conventions and
shibboleths.
HOW TO MAKE RACECOURSES
APPEAL TO BISHOPS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Racing is the sport of kings in England and
of Governors in Australia. It receives
columns daily in the worthiest newspapers.
Society countenances it. And yet, some-
how. it remains disrespectable. Bishops go
to cricket matches, and even play in them.
No bishop could afford to promenade the
lawn at Rand wick or Caulfield, much less
accept a mount in one of the events. Many
people with no great pretensions to virtue
own horses under a nom de course; they are
ashamed to have their real names on a race-
card. , ,
This cloud hangs over racing because it lias
been perverted by Private Enterprise. An
Australian racecourse is all sorts of things in
addition to being the testing-ground of
thoroughbred stock. It is a vast refresh-
ment-resort —a teashop, pub and restaurant
in one. It is a respectable garden-party, and
it is an assignation-place. It is a gambling-
hell where fortunes change hands in the
course of a few minutes, and where the
bank-cashier passes fevered hours before
making his debut at the Quarter Sessions.
It is a recognised haunt of the criminal
classes and of the parasites who live on them.
It would be better for that which is
supposed to be the end and purpose of all
racing—namely, the production of high-class
stock —if the courses were taken over by
the State. Probably the best horse in Aus-
tralasia at the time of writing is Gloaming,
who at three years old is a gelding. He was
gelded to improve his chances on the track.
Under State control no gelding would be
eligible to start in a public event. One of
the explanations of the deterioration of the
Waler is the prevalence of Gloamings—that
is to say, of animals which are nothing but
machines for reaping prize-money. Another
is the infrequence of Desert Golds —or, to
put it another way, the prevalence of worth-
less mares. England, which invented racing
as it is carried on in Australia, is short of
remounts as often as a big war arrives.
Ireland, America, the Dominions, the Argen-
tine are all scoured. France, which pursues
a different system, has no need to import a
single charger; in fact, the only ones that
are imported are luxury animals —usually
from Ireland —the property of rich officers.
In France all the cavalry horses are bred to
two types—from a weight-carrying thorough-
bred stallion and a half-bred mare ; or from
the same type of stallion and a Normandy
mare. There are 20 national stud depots,
and the pick of the sires in them have won
every distance race of importance in the
United Kingdom and the Continent. Farm-
ers or breeders can have the use of these
animals for approved mares for fees such as
25 francs (£1), 50 francs and 100 francs.
Aristocrats like Redfern may be seen by
Australian farmers for the entrance-money
to a racecourse, but they are miles beyond
the ordinary farmer’s financial reach for
breeding purposes.
If racing for the encouragement of horse-
breeding and the improvement of the Aus-
tralian horse were made a Government busi-
ness there would be no need for organ-
ised betting. Anyhow, the bookmakers
would go. With them would go many of
the elements which at present cause the
turf to be no place for bishops. That is to
say, touts, tic-k-tackers, jockeys’ punters,
professional backers, big gamblers, embez-
zlers and defaulters of all sorts —to make no
mention of the ladies who are attached to
them. The stakes would be provided by the
Government, assisted by the tote, if it was
decided to retain it. The German pre-war
Government thought nothing of prizes of
£3OOO and £4OOO for a race. The French
Government handed out close on three-
quarters of a million sterling (our money)
per annum in prizes before the war. This
lavishness was business. Racing is the only
known means of sifting out the best —of
getting at the stayer and the game horse.
There can be no racing without rich rewards
of some sort, and there will be no Private-
Enterprise breeding without both.
Year by year the Australian horse, which
once had a world-wide fame, grows weedier
and more unsound. Over-export is partly
to blame, but haphazard breeding is more
so. Australian racecourses grow steadily in
luxury and opulence, but in nothing more
admirable. Year by year the number of
imported thoroughbreds figuring .on them
grows—thoroughbreds which would never
have left their country of origin, in most
cases, had they been entirely sound. State
studs, State race-tracks and State supervi-
sion of private breeding—those are the keys
to the recrudescence of the Waler and the
disinfection of a great sport.
10-2-4.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Discoveries of Beeby and Co.
N. S. Wales State Minister Beeby is drift-
ing around the world, “looking into industrial
conditions.” It was he who discovered in
the United States that it is quite possible for
the oppressed wage-slave to earn £930 a
year, provided the attempt is made in a
country where high Protection has squashed
the importation of manufactured goods and
where high-priced industries are conse-
quently conducted on a big scale with the
best machinery, and the piece-worker refuses
to go slow or to be put on the “Darg”
system at the order of a union boss of low
mentality. Beeby mentioned all tlrese mat-
ters except the high Protection, which, as
a Freetrader, or at least a man writing for
Foreign-trade papers, he had to leave out.
He created an impression that the United
States changed by the gift of Providence
from being a poor debtor country like Aus-
tralia, which depended on the foreign
profiteer for its finished goods, to being a
rich creditor country that lent money and
supplied ships and cloth and engines and
usury to other nations. Now Beeby further
reports to the Foreign-trade papers that
during the war, when the U.S. waded in to


make for and sell to all and sundry, and
when Australia couldn’t even get its wheat
off its hands, wages in the George Wash-
ington country increased 110 per cent, and
the number of employers increased 20 per
cent, through men climbing out of the wage
class and setting up for themselves. Says
Beeby :
The increased wage was distributed among all
sections. The lowest grades of unskilled labor. .. .
are receiving to-day nearly twice what they received
in 1914....A1l purely local industries supplying
local needs show phenomenal increases in profits....
Now that the war is over America, notwithstanding
its participation, is really in a stronger financial
position, after allowing for its war liabilities, than
it was in 3 913.... Capital for the further develop-
ment of Australia will be more readily obtained from
America than from Europe, but it is first of afll
necessary to inspire some confidence.
Apparently Beeby is not inspired with a
shred of ambition to see his country emulate
its neighbor, and pay off’ its foreign debts,
and become a lender instead of a borrower,
and put up wages 110 per cent., and have a
“phenomenal increase” in “purely local
industries supplying local needs” —clothes,
engines, telephones, wire-netting, railway
material, ships and the like. All he thinks
about is that the new financial Power may
lend us some money if approached with a
glozing tale, the old financial Power being
pretty tired of us. In many respects Canada
is like Australia. But it follows the U'.S.
example in being strongly Protectionist.
Note the result. Canada borrowed
£107,000,000 from Britain during the war
much as Australia did; is to say, J.
Bulli paid Canadian troops ill Europe to
that extent. But Canada lent Britain
£146,000.000; that is to say, it supplied
munitions of war to that extent and jotted
the liability down in a book. And it is* now
advancing £10,000,000 more. So the stren-
uous Protectionist Dominion paid its own
way and helped the Allies With £49,000,000
to boot. It was at the lending end of the
pawnbrokery, while Australia was at the
borrowing end. All the Ereetrade papers
reported these remarkable circumstances
Without once mentioning that it was under
high Protection that Canada built the indus-
tries which enabled it to furnish Britain
With £356,000,000 worth of munitions oil
tick, while Australia was getting money in
advance for raw materials much of which it
hasn’t delivered to this day. There is very
little gained by sending people like Beeby
out to explore at the public expense when
the only important discoveries they are liable
to make are suppressed to oblige the import-
ing papers.
An Australian Officer’s View of It.
“ J.D.” on the Digger as a passenger:—
“Chief” (B. 20/2/’l9) makes three main points
against Australians on troopships. They may he
stated briefly as follows: —
(If Australians are objectionable generally.
(2) They are loafers, compared with “Doughboys.”
(3) Something, unspecified is liable to happen to
the ship’s stores unless “a rigorous control be exer-
cised over the supplying and chccki..g” of the same.
The dislike of the average ship’s officer for Aus-'
tralians in the mass is a matter of his psychology
and theirs; and it goes too deep for off-hand
analysis. One thing is certain: it is bitter. Wit-
ness Capt. Carmichael in the Sydney daily press
last Thursday:—
I am in a position to say that the stories of the
rioting and looting in Colombo were the usual ar.ti-
Australian lies, which people are usually too prone
to. spread because the credulous public is encouraged
to show the Australian “Digger” is wild and undis-
ciplined. / had the pleasure o' hearing a ship’s
officer give a lurid description of the wild doings
of the Australians, unconscious that a fellow-diner in
mufti had also been ashore. llis fable of alleged
personal experience crumbled into hearsay evidence
before the cool and searching questions of the man
who had been at the places at the time of the alleged
riots.
The Mercantile Marine officer is a good man at his
job, but he is accustomed normally to handle Lascars,
Dagoes, Swedes and a particularly miserable type of
Britisher. On a transport he gets into something
which is indistinguishable from an R.N. uniform.
Simultaneously he sets out to supply what he
imagines to be British naval, but which is usually
merely Lascar, discipline: The Australians are as
perceptive as they are cynical. They have from
seven to 10 weeks to see through the imposture.
They make openly merry over it. Is it astonishing
that the feelings of- the ship’s staff are lacerated,
and that they hate travelling with such people?
With regard to the “loafing” charge or suggestion.
That it is absurd, in a general sense, is known to
all who have seen the way in which the Diggers
literally ate up work in France and Palestine. It
amounts, then, to this: that some Australians, re-
turning after 4-1 years’ service, on a voyage
scheduled to last eight or nine weeks, failed to
volunteer as readily for the ship’s work as certain
Yanks did, who —-their country having stayed out
of the war for three years—were doing their five
to six days’ trans-Atlantic trip for the first time.
The comparison only needs to be glanced at for its
unfairness to become evident.
And, anyhow, why should the men do the ship’s
work ? The Australian Government has paid through
the nose on every contract- with the shipping com-
panies. Despite this, and in defiance of the
contracts, the transpoit staff's have, for years past,
wherever they found weak C.O. troops; comman-
deered the men to do the work of sailors. In two
transports on which I have travelled there were only
skeleton crews. All sorts of jobs, from painting the
boats to working in the stokehold, were done by the
men to the detriment of their training.
The chief explanation of nine-tenths of the Aus-
tralian soldiers’ so-called disorderlir.css is to be
found in the “pointing” tactics of the ships’ staffs —
the outcome of a desire to show their employers
the best-possible dividends. Such swindling would
be ruinous in peace-times. Under the censorship
it has been safe and extremely profitable. The fol-
lowing is a word-for-word transcript of a letter sent
to me in England by a transport quartermaster, now
in Australia: —•
Well, about that ration matter. Until Oct. 14
the ship’s people were issuing 2oz. cheese
per man one day and 2oz. jam per man
next day, instead . of what they contracted
to supply, viz., 2oz. of both cheese and jam
per day per man. When I forced them to supply
full rations they ran out of cheese within four days.
....The sugar shortage is harder to get at. The
contract, provided for 3oz. per man per day. Two
ounces were issued and the chief steward said the
cook was drawing the remainder. However, I
found out from the cook, after being on our journey
over a month, that he had never drawn any sugar.
The cook, needless to say, got strafed, and he told
me to say he had to swear that he was drawing it.
Although the contract provided for meat for tea
the men never got it.
Something like that has been the experience not of
one or two or a dozen officers who have interested
themselves in the comfort of the men on transports,
but of hundreds. The shipping cos. —notoriously
among the most .ruthless profiteers of the war —were
out for big profits, and they got them —to a great
extent at the expense of the muzzled soldiers whom
they carried.
“Chief’s” remark about the necessity of “control-
ling and checking” the ship’s stores on vessels
carrying Australians can only imply that somebody
steals the goods. What are the known facts ? The
men have no opportunity of doing anything of the
sort. But on transport after transport the ships’
stewards and other officials have done a regular trade
in selling jam, sugar, etc., to hungry soldiers. Over
and over again these persons have been caught in the
act by deck officers and others and charged. There
has been talk by the master of the ship on those
occasions of prosecuting the guilty parties at the
end of the trip. But it has never been done. It
is a poor answer to a legitimate food-shortage com-
plaint for the ship’s staff to claim that they are
unable ■to prevent their own employees pilfering
stuff and selling it amongst the soldiers.
The gist of the whole trouble between the ship-
ing cos.’ representatives and the Diggers may be
put in a sentence. A large number of the shipping
cos.’ employees act the part of take-downs and ask
to be accepted as patriots. The Digger being no
fool secs through the fraud and acts accordingly.
The best evidence that the Australian is not gratui-
tously cantankerous is to be got from the R.A.N.
Ask any British naval officer if the Australians
under him were loafers and surly grousers. Ask
him if the brothers and cousins of the men in the
A.I.F. whom he has known didn’t “cheerfully put
up with unavoidable discomforts and make the best
of things”— where they knew they were getting a
fair deal. His answer will be the measure of the
difference between a pukka handler of men and one
who has chiefly dealt with a low class of man, and
whose conduct, anyhow, is strongly influenced by the
profiteering factor.
4 —_
Panic and Medical Responsibility.
From a country surgery:—
The raising in Tiie Bulletin of the question of
control over a certain type of physician came at a
time when ‘t was most needed and is exceedingly
refreshing to those of the ircJical fraternity who
arc fed up with the panic-provoking activities of
the politico-medical authorities and their eager
accomplices in the ranks of tire profession.
It is to be hoped that extended agitation on
this vital question will bring home to the
B.M.A. the necessity for putting the profession’s
house in order, and for finding other functions
besides those of drawing up “black-lists” and pre-
scribing rules and regulations whose main purpose
appears to be the hobbling of men setting up in
practice and preventing their too rapid rise at the
expense of the stagnant established practitioner.
The profession, with only a few isolated indi-
vidual protests, and those smothered under a prig-
gish system of etiquette, has allowed our mis-
guided health authorities to saddle a submissive
public with the masking atrocity, knowing it to
bo purely experimental, with a, greater and un-
biased volume of evidence against it, the argu-
ments for it being inspired mainly by the urgent
necessity for the high-salaried officials to justify
their existence by action of any sort.
Paragraphs are daily appearing in the town and
country press, since the appearance of the epidemic,
giving instances of tentative diagnoses of pneu-
monic ’flu, with subsequent disproof by post-
mortem. Those represent a few isolated instances
where medical men have had the moral courage and
decency to do the fair thing But how many
alleged deaths from pneumonic influenza in country
towns have in reality been due to other causes?
Pari passu with the declaration of Victoria as
an infected State, three “explosive” casco were
“discovered” in one border town, despite the fact
that thousands of travellers from Melbourne had
been in and out during the undoubted existence of
the epidemic but- previous to its being declared,
and without any case making its appearance in that-
town. One “case” died. A post-mortem was made
—-apparently in camera, the only notification to
other practitioners in the town appearing in the
press, to the effect that the examination confirmed
the diagnosis. Naturally! The result of the
appearance of these alleged cases was to bring
down on the town the ridiculous and damaging
restrictions applied to the metropolitan area, at a
cost of several thousands of pounds to the citizens
and a sore trial of the patience of the business and
trader people.
Is this state of affairs justifiable? The alleged
cases in this and other country towns may or may
not have been authentic cases. They were
announced as such, but apparently no effort was
made (or suggested) to obtain the advice of any
tribunal which could claim authoritative know-
ledge by virtue of experience.
The general result of our handling of this
epidemic has been to bring open and undisguised
contempt on the profession—both offending and un-
offending members thereof—along with the open
suggestion that the" panic has been engineered to
set the inoculation canoe afloat, and to satisfy the
itch for Government money. Add to all this
the multitude of counsels poured into the public ear,
the frenzied and insensate inter-State jealousy, and
we need only the panic-stricken actions of provincial
mayors and councillors to give us the ingredients of
the hell-broth which has been served up to the long-
suffering Australian public.
The Cocky’s Child.
A teacher on the cow-ridden, calf-haunted,
hull-infested North Coast (N.S.W.) lately
wrote to a Sydney paper about the slavery
of the farmer’s children, and his letter was
a spark in a powder magazine. The maga-
zine has been quiet of late, but it is the kind
that blows up at short notice. Usually it
is a teacher who starts the trouble. He is
expected to get results that will do credit to
himself out of children who are sodden with
weariness through rising at 5 a.m. to do
jobs on the farm before they arrive &t school,
and who can’t learn their lessons at night,
even if they had much mind left to learn
with, because they have to do more jobs.
The pedagogue who exploded mentioned that
he was even asked to cut the lesson hours
short in certain cases so that the children
might have time to do more jobs. There-
upon local member Briner exploded also,
and said off-hand that it was “slander.”
And other people exploded some more, not-
ably a cow-cocky who said frankly that it
was the custom to make the children toil as
unpaid milkers, and that he would have to
employ two more men if they didn’t, and if
he employed two more men he would he
financially broke. The statement is prob-
ably true. The cow-cocky works seven days
a week himself, for the cow is a Sabbath-
breaking beast, and his hours are pro-
miscuous. Yet when his ghost appears in
the probate returns at the end of his strenu-
ous life he seldom leaves enough to suggest
that he could have afforded to hire two more
men. Possibly his methods are not wholly
up-to-date; but another notable feature in
his case is that a great deal of his stuff has
to go abroad to grease the bread of the
people who make our clothes in England
instead of making them here. The price of
his export butter is what it will fetch after
paying the heaviest butter freight in the
world. And the price of local butter is
the price of export butter. If more was
asked the ship would be arrested and the
export butter taken out for local sale. In
default of a much bigger local market it is
difficult to see what can be done. The curse
of being a cocky’s child is that the factory
is on the premises, and in default of a
factory inspector in each house there is little
fo stop the enslavement of the unpaid off-
spring till they are big enough to fight the
old progenitor and knock him out. The
man who works in a foundry or a shipbuilding
yard can t take the whole family along with
him and make them toil eight hours a day
while he collects their wages, but the man
on the land is in a category by himself. He
says that either he, or his landlord, or the
man he bought the land from would be in
an impossible situation if he wasn’t in a
category by himself. It sterns a rotten
arrangement, but many things about the
land are rotten.
Who Should Be Hanged for This?
“F.A.R.” : All this business of ill-found
transports and a rotten deal to the soldier
leminds me of my trip iu a Canadian trans-
port. The descriptions given of the ships
that carried home returning Anzacs
with the transposition of a few adjectives
have been applied to the ocean palace in
which we crossed the Atlantic. The fault?
I’ll swear it doesn’t lie with the ship’s offi-
cers nor with the adjutant. These officials
worked like niggers to make the unhappy lot
of the men at least endurable. But some-
where in the north-eastern corner of Hell,
where the draught fans the flame to about
two million degrees Fahr., there is a recep-
tion waiting for some Brass Ilats who sit
on comfortable chairs in the neighborhood of
Charing Cross, London, and strike blue
pencils through lists of ships’ stores, and
issue orders to shipping companies to make
available on transports accommodation for
400 civilians wdio wash to go back to
Canada, or through Canada to Australia.
They don’t give a tiny, trumpery damn for
the lads they are so airily condemning to
torture for an unknown number of days. In
our case the ship lay for eight days in the
Mersey before it got a move on, and
there were 1700 souls cramped up in
a space which would have done for 500.
Water gave out, and the ship condensed its
own—horrible brown stuff that looked like
coffee and was not nearly good enough to
wash in. Pipes had broken before we had
left the river, and some of the lavatories were
out of commission. Soldiers, wives and chil-
dren along with them, slept in a huddle in
their filthy dining-saloon, whose ports were
kept continually closed. The conglomerate
smell of greasy food, sick humanity, carbonic-
acid gas that couldn’t get away, and the foetid
emanation from dirty uniforms simply swept
the visitor hack. The officer of the day got
through his inspections iii the most hasty,
perfunctory way, and hurried back into fresh
air. Then food began to go short, as in
recent cases here. Stewards sold eggs at a
quarter (Is. Old.) apiece ; or for half-a-crown,
or its Canadian equivalent, provided a
surreptitious breakfast of bacon and eggs.
They did a roaring trade. Liquor was
smuggled in from the saloon bar, and formed
an alleviation that was joyful to behold. I
am glad to say that I broke every regulation
of the British Army and Navy, and would
have broken the Ten Commandments as well,
in getting an occasional bottle of beer down
to this stinking lazarette. Note the differ-
ence between a soldier and civilian in terms
of human life. Some of the lifeboats were
leaky, and badly in need of repair. I drew
the attention of the first officer to this
while we were still in the river, and there
remained time to remedy the matter. I was
bidden not to worry. “I know you and
your wife are down for that boat,” quoth he,
“but it will be all right. We’re going to
put soldiers in those boats if we have to use
them.” Pleasant for the poQr devils who
were returning home after a couple of years’
fighting! Up in the saloon there was danc-
ing, with an occasional concert; and the offi-
cers had cabins to themselves. I’m not fool
enough to suegest that the men should all be
sent home de luxe; but most assuredly they
should be given the usual accommodation of
second-class travelling, and be damned to
civilians like me whose passage-money makes
a far bigger noise than the obligations we
owe the lads that have been bearing hard-
ships in order that we may go easily and
softly. And as a last hint, an investigation
into the ultimate destination of a large part
of ships’ stores that should be devoted to
the men’s use might be productive of some
surprises'. The story of the colossal graft
in the armies that beat the Hun may be told
some day. When it is, what a vast number
of ears will burn !
Coal-miners, Here and Elsewhere.
The great coal shindy in Britain is a part
of the great land shindy, and that goes back
SOG years or more. When the surface was
parcelled out at the last great settlement
coal was an unknown asset. Some minerals
were worked in a humble fashion, but, in
the main, everything outside the few small
towns was cocky-land or pasture. The baron
or boss-cocky who held an estate under
feudal tenure was a mixture of local judge,
area-officer, captain in war, military con-
tractor and farm superintendent. lie had to
produce in wag-time a certain number of
robust armed men, and he had to give
them land to live upon to make them
robust and producible. What he made over
and above his contract he kept for himself.
He was in time let off his bargain to supply
men, because the mob army which had too
many hereditary bosses was unreliable; but
the Government was too weak to take the
property from him, so the military contrac-
tor kept the pay and gave up the contract.
As he no longer had to produce a certain
number of robust tenants, he acquired new
powers of eviction, for it didn’t matter what
tenants he had. When new towns grew up
he became a much richer landlord. When
coal became valuable and other metals
increased in price, and deep-sinking was in-
vented, he was able to charge so much a
ton on the property for several thousand
feet down as well as charging rent on the
surface. A graduated land-tax, like that
which is breaking up big estates in Aus-
tralia, might have gradually wiped out this
undesirable class of which Australia’s old
friend Dudley is a specimen, but it was
always the policy of Britain to keep the big
estates together. The companies or solitary
proprietors that work the minerals under
lease from the Dudleys of the moment lead
the same life of ups and downs as similar
people elsewhere; but the Dudley class,
which does no work and takes no risks,
prospers exceedingly. In Australia the pit-
mouth rate for coal is amazingly low com-
pared with that in the British Isles, while
the wages are above the average. Hence the
way of the Australian coal boss isn’t strewn
with roses, though some of the clan who
dabble in land and ships as side-lines have
a great reputation for wealth. Thus, out of
the 20 coal stocks quoted in the S. M.
llebald at the end of February, eight were
selling at a loss on the original cost of the
shares, while there are a number which are
seldom quoted because they are hardly
worth quoting. The British coal-miner, in
addition to having a well-grounded grievance
against the peerage which the Australian
lacks, has a sense of power which the Aus-
tralian doesn’t possess. If he effectively
holds up the coal supply in the bitter winter
or bleak early Spring, he can pass a death-
sentence on the community, which must
freeze or surrender, for coal stocks are at a
The Firing Party.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“The German Kavy is to be sunk in the deepest
part of the Atlantic.”— Prophetic cable .
Bring Yon Tirpitz here to view
What the Prussian might could do!
Let his solemn whiskers wave.
Prussia's might is in the sea
Deep down.
Prussian ships have found a grave
Free from shame of memory.
Let the hitter iron drown,
Choked with weed and rusted brown.
Rearward camion, set for flight —
They shall sink that could not fight
In the hollow deeps of ocean
Far from light,
Where the great weeds in their motion
Wave good night ;
There to all eternity
Prussia's hope is in the sea.
Lead out the pageant of the days
To the doom-tune fortune plays !
These were great in strength of steel,
Tough of rib and swift of keel,
These to match their hate’s desire
Swayed to loads of bolted fire,
Making Death himself to wonder
At their pent and hoarded thunder.
These about a narrow sea
Went with threat of things to be,
Threat of lightnings that should play
In the triumph of The Day.
These about a hidden sea
Crept in fear of things to be
Lest a voice of louder thunder
Tore the shattered world asunder,
And against the staggering ships,
Scourged with flame of lightning whips,
Came the masters of the sea
At the call of destiny.
Let Von Tirpitz stand to view
What the Prussian might could do;
Let his solemn whiskers leave
O'er his iron in its grave.
This that was a nation’s pride,
Bold to run and l rave to hide;
This that through the fog-bank sped,
Smote a peaceful town and fled;
This that aimed at murder sheer,
Bragged, but could not face its peer;
This that twenty years of guilt -
For a people’s shame had built;
This that long ago had sunk
In the seas of fear and funk,
Now in greener depths must be
Sunk to shame and memory.
Give Von Tirpitz space and room!
He should see the deed of doom.
Let his vibrant whiskers feel
The destroying might of steel.
Lo, the targets grey are set!
Lo, the conquering ships are met!
Swiftly to their place they swing
In a vast, flag-flaunting ring.
These the masters of the deep,
These that have the keys to keep
Of a peace so hardly won,
Mark the range and train the gun.
Flies the signal, leaps the flame!
On the empty ships of shame,
Shattering, rending seas of fire
Swell to meet a world’s desire.
From the vast, smoke-shrouded ring
Fast and fast the lightnings fling
Bolts the years had kept in trust
For the last and fatal thrust.
Stern or bow flung to the sky,
Ship by ship they break and die.
Ship by ship hate’s steel-clad power
Passes in a thunderous hour;
And the waves, the waves are free—
Prussia’s might is in the sea.
Lei Von Tiepitz stand to view
All his eager hand could do,
While his whiskers to and fro
Wave to all that rests helow
Deep down.
Let the hitter iron drown,
Choked with weed and rusted hrown,
That the great world-peace may grow!
N.S.W.
GEORGE STREET.


T h 5 Farmers’ & Settlers' Co-operative Insurance Co. of A ustralia
Limited
The Workmen’s Compensation Act imposes heavy liabilities on Farmers and
Graziers.
The Farmers’ and Settlers’ Cooperative Insurance Co. of Australia Limited
will accept their liability for a small premium.
It is to the best interests of the Man on the Land to support this cooperative
company.
Write immediately for particulars.
Head Office: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES in VICTORIA AND SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
minimum. He can also hold up the outside
food supply as the Huns never did. And he
can hold up the industries of the second-
greatest manufacturing country on earth. In
Australia there are few manufactures to
hold up; there is at least beef and bread
within the country; and it is possible to
sleep under a tree in Spring without actual
frostbite. One way and another, therefore,
the British coal-miner has great chances to
upend things compared with his Australian
brother. And there are far better reasons
why he should want to.
A Worker in the Territory.
“Sandfly” : The day I blew in at Darwin
from Bananaland I fully expected that my
services would be snapped up. At the
engineering works a motor mechanic was
wanted; wages, 255. per day. The boss was
soon satisfied that I was the right man.
“What about your union ticket?” he in-
quired. Yes, I had an A.W.U. ticket. “No
good here,” he said. “You must belong to
the A.S.E. I’d like to engage you, but if
I did I’d need military protection.” “Very
well,” I said, “I want the job, so I’ll join
the A.S.E.” But the secretary told me that
it was impossible to join unless I had served
five years’ apprenticeship in a foundry and
was well known to members. I assured him
that I had served more than five years, but
not in a foundry, and was prepared to prove
my qualifications. It was all in vain. The
next job I tried for was benchman in a saw-
mill, newly erected. I grinned as I looked
over the plant. The saws were out of
tune, the trolleys out of alignment, and a
thousand faults existed which I could rec-
tify. The. boss said he wanted an experi-
enced man to set things in order. I had
run a sawmill of my own in Bananaland for
four years, so I felt certain that I could
get into the Carpenters and Woodworkers’
Union. But upon application to the secre-
tary I soon found I hadn’t a ghost of a
chance. Things were looking blue. I
couldn’t get work at lumping on the wharf
because I didn’t belong to the wharf section
of the A.W.U.; and finally I wound up on a
job at Vestey’s as a general laborer clean-
ing up the yard ! Big cheques are made by
N.T. trades unionists, who work unlimited
overtime in the busy season, and apparently
their object is to have as few men around as
possible. Do you wonder why the Terri-
tory is Australia’s burden?
The Native Born.
/
“Wealsman” tells some bitter truths: —
A recent Bulletin paragraphs the fact that Pre-
miers Lawson (V.), Lefroy (W.A.) and Ryan (Q.)
are native-born Australians. Add Lee, of Tas-
mania, to the list, and mention that the last Speck
Premier was also a native, and the Premier before
him, and the one before that —in fact, every Premier
of Tasmania barring one for the last 20 or 25 years
has proudly announced himself as a home-grown vege- <
table. The exception was Jacky Evans, who hung
on for five years or so, after displacing the native-
born Propsting ; and even Jacky only missed being
born in Australia by staying some 24 months too ’
long in Devonshire. Evans was followed by native-born
Lewis, who begat the native-born Solomon. And Solo-
mon begat native-born Earle, and Earle begat native-
born Lee, and if all goes well Lee’s mantle will
descend upon another native-born, Laborite Lyons.
Also every member of the present Lee Ministry is
native-born, and every man of the Earle crowd
was ditto. Of the Solomon tribe of Ministers, only
one (present Senator Mulcahy) was imported, and
of the Lewis lot, which preceded Solomon’s, only
one (Alex. Hean) came overseas. In the Ministry
which preceded Lewis’s —that bossed by Captain
Evans —two imported men found places; and the
Profsting Ministry, comprising Propsting, Niciiolls
(now Chief Justice), Carmichael, Lyne (brother
of Oom Bill) and Dr. McCall, was all native-born.
The present Assembly of 30 contains only two, or at
most three, imported legislators on the Ministerial
side — Whitsitt, Hean and perhaps one other —and
on the Labor side only one, Bill Sheridan, and he
left Galway half a century ago. Even in the other
House all are natives except about three or four
of the 18. There has never been an Austra-
lian-born President of the Council, and only one
Australian (Woods) has ever had the Speaker’s
perch; but practically every other high position
in the Island has been held, or is now held, or
pretty soon will be held, by a native.
Yet in Tasmania, so far from this fact indicating
that the Speck’s chief citizens are markedly Aus-
tralian in sentiment and outlook, it appears to point
nowhere in that direction. Indeed, it is plain that
in distinctly un-Australian characteristics, such as
insularity of feeling, dread of change, antipathy to
progress, slavish respect for the precedents set up
by our imported Fogland ancestors, jingoistic senti-
ment, worship of wealth and deep distrust of the
democracy, Tasmania is nearer the front than the
tail-end of the procession. And, judged by the
same standards, the States wherein Lawson and
Lefroy can become war-time Premiers have nothing
to boast about; next to Tasmania they are the States
in which old-world notions and prejudices and senti-
ment still hold the strongest sway. It 'is because Law-
son and Lefroy and Lee unashamedly pandered to the
un-Australianism rampant in these States that they
achieved their jobs. All three out-Heroded Herod
in their determination to smother the half-articulate
lisping's of Australian sentiment beneath the bed-
clothes of imperialism, and their flights of jingoistic
eloquence were fiercer than anything ever uttered by
mere British-born persons like Holman' and Peake,
or even by Billy Hughes himself. Not one of them
failed to make or perpetuate a muddle in his own
State administration; not one of them raised a
sturdy Australian-born protest against the shameless
brigandage of their friends, the mostly-imported
profiteers; not one of them throughout the war gave
a serious thought to the real interests of Australia.
The three of them sat at the feet of Australia’s
most blundersome and unreliable Win-the-War politi-
cal leader, and seconded and applauded every foolish
and un-Australian sentiment uttered by that whirl-
ing and calamitous orator. All three are products
of the war, like the censorship and price-fixing and
the ’flu; and the excuse for their political existence
will vanish directly Australia can clear its vision
of blood and tears sufficiently to distinguish friends
from frauds.
The Digger at his Desk.
“Catkin” : The A.I.F. education scheme
has caught on better than any of us ever
dared to hope. Bishop (now Brig.-General)
Long is the organiser, and he has the help
of a small army of education experts, includ-
ing direct representatives of the Australian
Universities. But it was soon found that
the purely academic didn’t make much of an
appeal. The technical side was a different
matter. For the purposes of training, those
who take advantage of the scheme are
divided into three sections:—•
(1) Lads who left school and came to the war and
have no jobs to go to. They are asked to decide
what they’d like to take on and are trained accord-
ingly.
(2) Older men who had a trade but had not
completed their apprenticeship. They get a brush-up
and will be carried on from where they left off.
(3) Men who had a trade or calling and want to
see what more this side can teach them about it.
Arrangements have been made with many big
manufacturers in Britain to take Diggers for
three months, the
A.I.F. to continue
their present pay
plus a subsistence
allowance. Men
handling stock in
Australia will be
sent to cattle cen-
tres in Britain to
learn something
about breeding.
General farm work
is also being dis-
cussed ; but unless
land can be got in
the south of France
-—and we think it
c a n—l ’ m afraid
there’s not much to
be done in that
direction, conditions
elsewhere being so
different from our
own. There was a
proposition that
we mighk get some
fellows across to American schools of .agri-
culture ; but the difficulties are very great.
The Bishop had great hopes of sending a large
number of Diggers to English Universities ;
but prospects of that have dwindled. In
addition to a great rush of English appli-
cants, there are over 30,000 Americans stand-
ing on the doorsteps. Those who remain
with their units have the benefit of a refer-
ence library—l2o books to each unit—with a
large central library at Horseferry-road.
Ninety-five per cent, of us want nothing so
badly as to get home. But seeing that some
of us are evidently booked for Europe till
the end of 1919, the education scheme is the
best thing that could be devised. Between
them the members of the A.I.F. will take
home a vast store of technical information :
and it is up to Australia to see that they are
given a chance to put the knowledge to use.
“Licensed Surveyor” : In N.S.W. anyone
can make a survey ; but only a licensed sur-
veyor, specially licensed under the Real Pro-
perty Act,can get a plan accepted by the Regis-
trar-General’s Department. The result ?s
that many a licensed surveyor thinks noth-
ing of going before a Jaypee and making a
solemn declaration to the effect that he has
immediately supervised a survey, when as a
fact he has never left his office. Everybody
knows that no action will be taken against
the surveyor. If the survey is faulty, it
has to be rectified, that is all. But notice
the evil result. Young licensed surveyors
are compelled to work as draftsmen or be
starved out of the profession, while unquali-
fied men are doing their work for £3 a week
and the surveyor who employs them is mak-
ing money by signing the plans before a
Justice. Some new regulations were issued
by the Registrar-General in 1915. One of
them warned surveyors that a statutory
declaration was not v a matter of form, and
that anyone swearing falsely was liable to
punishment under the Oaths Act of 1900.
But in spite of that the practice continues,
and the chief offenders are prominent in the
profession, A recommendation was made
in 1912 by a conference of Surveyors-Generai
that the declaration should be altered to pre-
vent doubtful practices. But nothing has
been done. In every State except N. S.
Wales a Surveyors’ Board, created by
statute, is empowered to regulate matters in
connection with the profession. Victoria
and South Aus. passed Surveyors Acts 20
years ago. The other States came into line
in 1908 and 1909. N. S. Wales is far
behind and an effort is being made to shelve
the Surveyors Bill due for a second reading
next session. It proposes changes too
drastic for those who are doing very well
without it.
Now that the Argyllshire trouble is all
over—-for of course Melbourne Headquarters’
idea of court-martialling the “ringleaders”
will be dropped—Sydney, and Headquarters,
too, for that matter, can congratulate them-
selves on having got out of a very awkward
situation with neither broken heads nor
infected bodies. For that, when all is said
and done, most of the credit belongs to
General Lee, the State Commandant, and
his two outstanding qualities: a robust
commonsense and a fine capacity for quieting
a mob without handing it either soft-soap or
compliments.
About a neglected continent: ——
The Danish Government has refused to sell or
otherwise dispose of Greenland to Canada. Den-
mark, which once possessed England, Norway and
Sweden, and which blockaded Germany within the
lifetime of people not yet dead, is now a kingdom
about half the size of Tasmania, with three of the
frozenest colonies on earth —Greenland, Iceland and
the Faroe Islands. Greenland is of uncertain
size, but it may prove to be- almost a continent. It
is a place of untouched natural resources; that is to
say, its gold, silver, copper, platinum, tin, petroleum
and coal deposits (if any) are intact. When the
ice. melts, or when some way of melting the ice is
“A LITTLE CHILD SHALL
LEAD THEM .”
discovered, the nation that owns Greenland may find
itself the richest on earth. And if half as much
energy was put into the development of the burning
glass as has been put into the development of
bombs, it should be possible, in a country where the
summer sun shines all day and all night, to ring-
bark the glaciers and start them sliding into the sea.
It is simply a clearing operation, and the ground
once cleared, mining should be possible. A genera-
tion which talks so glibly about shifting deserts
should be able to shift ice; it simply hasn’t tried.
Greenland costs hardly anything for administration,
crime being frozen at present; and, unlike Canberra,
it has a growing population—94oB in 1878 and
13,459 in 1911. Now that the world grows small it
is a place worth holding on to.
-♦
A line from Ettie Rour, hon. sec. of the
M.L. Volunteer Sisterhood in Paris:—
All I have tried to do is keep our men clean —for
their own sake and for the sake of the women and
children at home. But when I tried to record the
facts and appeal for funds, the M.L. Government for-
bade it, and all reference to V.D. in the Anzac army
was similarly forbidden. Victory ’aas snatched
from the jaws of defeat only by emptying every
penny I possessed or could raise by mortgage into
the purchase of disinfectants for private and confi-
dential issue to Anzacs on leave in Paris. This, in
addition to the official effort, and the medical
supervision of women, has enabled the Anzacs to gain
the cleanest, record of any troops ever in Paris. In one
' period ZOO infections were recorded among leave-men,
and ONLY TWO OF THESE WERE ANZACS: the
rest were Canadians and English. I therefore again
appeal for funds to be sent me from the homelands
for unofficial services rendered to the medical officers
who are trying to save the Anzac homes from the
abomination. Slowly the folks at home will come
to realise the hell of suffering, the purgatory of
lonely exile, and the tragedy of daily discomfort —-
aggravated too often by needless petty tyrannies—
and, above all, the deadly boredom of our soldiers’
lives: then to know all will not merely be to forgive
all, but to understand that we have nothing to
forgive.
Miss Rout’s address is e/o the High Com-
missioner for M.L., 413 Strand, London.
-♦
“Returned Citizen” : What is this Austra-
lian Army Reserve that the discharged sol-
diers are being asked to join? The official
literature handed to the just-let-loose Digger
says no drills or parades are required of
him, but he can, “if he chooses,” attend a
four-day camp each year, “where he will
meet his old comrades.” He is also told
that the object of the Reserve is to preserve
for Australia the skill and experience gained
by the men during the war. It sounds
good, but will not bear investigation. Every
returned soldier, so long as he remains in
Australia, is available, whether he joins the
Reserve or not. The Reserve does not give
him any further training or experience. By
the provisions of the Defence Act he, in
common with all citizens, is liable for ser-
vice in Australia, and as a member of the
Reserve he cannot be called on to serve
abroad. So where is the utility of the
thing? It adds nothing to the fighting
strength of the country. _ But it does (or
will very soon) provide jobs for a staff of
frilly officials.
“Sol M.” : This is the third attempt. The
first was the Sermon on the Mount. The
second was the Hague Convention. Now we
have the League of Nations.
Hubert Emerson, of Gawler (S.A.), who
completed his 85th year on February 23,
helped to build the telegraph line between
Adelaide and Melbourne, and personally put
in the first pole on the S. Aus. side of the
border.
One day last week a surprised Melbourne
City Court beak waited in vain for a “drunk”
to appear. There wasn’t one on the prem-
ises. The oldest police official couldn’t
remember a similar drought. ITe was quite
sad about it.
“Centurion”: “Smith” asks (B. 27/2/T9)
if anyone can supply the name of the woman
who landed on Gailipoli. I can give him
the names of half a dozen perfect old ladies.
Some of them were Generals, but all were
on the staff.
Extract from Melbourne Metropolitan Fire
Brigade Board’s report No. 1066, which
tells of the smoky end of a Brunswick
butcher’s shop:—
Damage: Ford Motor Car, No. 12,278, 15-20 h.p.,
with bedroom and shed at rear and contents of same.
One of the old models, this. The 1910
edition has a billiard-room and conservatory.
Although the weather was dry and the
pubs had been shut for a fortnight, at an
advertised auction “sale” of 225 bottles of
beer and two bottles of whisky in Melbourne
recently not a soul attended. The booze
represented the proceeds of recent raids on
sly-grog shops. The “sale” was held at the
local watch-house. No auction being pos-
sible, the bottles were disposed of privately—
beer at 6d., whisky at 6s.
A letter from “Hamer,” literary Billjim:—
Here’s the pleasantest experience I have had since
I left Australia. In London I opened a package
from Australia —one of the gifts of the Australian
Comforts Fund—and suddenly I was visioning bush-
lands and sunlit ridges; bays with sunny beaches
and waters flashing in the sun; bouquets of bush
flowers, and all the beauty, warmth and sweetness
that Australia means. It was in the Anzae Buffet,
where the lady workers are Australians, too. “Who
has the boronia ?” one of them asked, as she passed.
In a few minutes I had a crowd round my table—
an eager, delighted crowd of women and men, all
sniffing the delightful fragrance. The anonymous
donor of that gift had packed in a little bundle
of Australia’s most fragrant flower; and I am sure
her heart would have been pleased at the sensation
it caused. Even English people, for whom the
Australian flower has no associations, delighted in
the fragrance. Why doesn’t someone start in the
business of bottling the boronia for poor exiles?
In Melbourne the other day the Criminal
Court was called upon to consider the case
of Violet Eades, who, although only 24, had
promised to love, honor and obey three men,
from none of whom death has parted her.
She married No. 1 in 1911, she being then
16 and her husband 18, and lived with him
for a month. Later he went to the war and
somebody told her he had been killed; so
when Mr. Jones asked her to become Mrs.
Jones, she said she didn’t mind. Jones was
less like a friend than a husband for nine
months; then he, A>o, went to the war. She
next favored John McGinley, though she
continued to draw her military allotment as
Mrs. Jones for several months more. McGin-
ley left her after three months, and married
someone else two months later. After think-
ing hard for an hour, the jury said “Not
guilty,” and Violet was left to sort things
out as best she could.


AGED
without
a ‘Rival
A'adefrom
yV&/fs/fops
ONLY
Si
le.__
j-hc
a
11
For "Good Australians/'
“Warrigal” Underwear is good Australian Underwear, made wholly
from the pure wool of Australian sheep. It is a Peapes line —and
Peapes quality right through. Wear your own country’s wool—
your own country’s make!
“WARRIGAL” PURE WOOL UNDERSHRTS.
Peapes’ pay postage. Please state chest and waist measurements.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
Men's Outfitters,
309 and 3U GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Hello, Everybody”
Criterion “•M-aytime
Pai,ach “Bubbly
Royal V 1? P OOI ? e „
Tivow My Lady Frayle”
jj oyT > s Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
When the N. S. Wales Government found
out that Jack Fitzgerald’s innocent-looking
muzzle-gun was heavily loaded, it made a
violent dash for cover. Masks came off;
pubs opened on Monday morning (churches
had beaten them by 24 hours) ; picture-
houses followed on Monday evening; and the
doors of other shows opened on Tuesday and
Wednesday.
At the Piccadilly (Sydney) Theda Bara
made her first reappearance as a Russian
revolutionist in “The Rose of Blood.” She
went one better than the Bolsheviks in getting
rid of the accursed bureaucrat; as her final
triumph she blew her own hubby sky-high,
and then placed a red rose upon his boiled
shirt. At the Strand and .the Crystal Palace
“The Romance of Tarzan” showed our old
friend “Tarzan of the Apes” in the throes of
a grande passion, complicated by superb
THE BALD HEADS.
villainy. Incidentally, it also showed him in
dress-clothes, which don’t suit him as well as
his jungle robe of skins. However, he
marries the girl of his heart, so he has
nothing to grumble at. The Lyceum, re-
modelled and redecorated, presented a shin-
ing countenance to the unmasked. Any day
now you can see Madge Kennedy romp
through five acts of fun called “The Fair
Pretender,” and Carlyle Blackwell and
Evelyn Greeley learn the lesson of love
against a background of nice open-air coun-
try. This time they call it “The Beloved
Blackmailer.” Lovers of Jack Pickford and
Louise Huff made for Hoyt’s and the Hay-
market, where the delightful pair conveyed
the charm of Alice Hegan Rice’s “Sandy,” a
tale of Kentucky, where the colonels come
from.
“Hello, Everybody!” having got a flying
mid-week start, is already raging again at
Her Majesty’s (Sydney). The big revue
will probably boom harder than ever for the
interruption. “My Lady Frayle,” with Vera
Pearce in the lead, kicks off with a matinee,
at the Tivoli on Saturday. The new sup-
porting stars are Bert Clarke (English
comedian), Claude Flemming and Marie La
Varre (American comedienne). Goodie
Reeve, daughter of Ada, will also be present,
and Australians Gwen Burroughs and Celia
Ghiloni have jobs of some sort. “Bubbly”
will- begin earning the impressive rent of the
Palace on the same day, at the matinee, and
Hugh I). Mclntosh, who has leased the house
from the Taits, will breathe once more.
Beatrice Holloway is leading lady of the fizzy
show, and is seconded by Hugh Steyne, John
Junior, Marie Eaton, Leslie Gaze, Florence
Fox, Billy Rego and Jose Baptiste. The
Kurylos pair are the star dancers. Allen
Doone will sing again for the Irish at the
Royal—also on Saturday. He and Edna
Keeley then begin a season with “The
Wearing of the Green.” Apparently the
Green will never wear out.
At the moment of writing Lawson hasn’t
said yes to the theatre managers’ prayer for
permission to open up on Satui’day instead
of on Monday; but he is alleged to be
wavering. There is to be big racing on the
Saturday; and the managers are thinking
lovingly of the tens of thousands of which
the punters are going to rob the books, and
they buttonhole politicians, telling them
that the drought has broken, and the grass
is damp and the evenings cold, „and the
danger of driving people to open-air shows
is simply appalling. All the companies are
holding themselves ready, and if the Govern-
ment says the word they will burst out with
at least three first-nights at this week-end.
Adelaide, which seems by nature incapa-
ble of getting really excited about anything
whatever, followed its usual course with the
’flu epidemic. It just consulted some of its
best medical men, took what they told it
were reasonable precautions, and then didn’t
worry. Masks were not worn, except inside
the Commonwealth Bank and one or two
other institutions; few citizens ever even
saw a mask. Nothing was closed or pro-
hibited, and the ordinary business, social and
sporting life was hardly affected. The Exhi-
bition was fitted up for ’flu cases, and the
Jubilee Oval as a quarantine-ground for the
stranded who were at last allowed back
from the eastern States; and there were
about three deaths —chiefly of peonle in poor
health already. But there wasn’t much of
amusement; and companies that were “rest-
ing” in the east couldn’t be moved across.
So, after Allen Doone had finished his string
of plays, Adelaide was left wandering in the
wilderness of variety and picture shows.
“Guarantor” : As one of the Chautauqua
guarantors I am quite overcome by the mag-
nanimous way in which “Bill Bile” and
others have risen to protect a number of
men and women who do not require their
services. Australia is still a free country,
and if a progressive citizen decides to give
a new idea a trial he surely may do so at
his own exj/ense. As a guarantor (who
paid up with pleasure the allotted portion
of the guarantee) I considered it my duty
to attend every session of the Chautauqua—
firstly because I was partly responsible for
bringing it to the town ; secondly, I wanted
to judge the institution on its merits. There
are no regrets on either count. The Chau-
tauqua gave good, clean, wholesome enter-
tainment —-music not beyond the appreciation
of the average person ; lectures of the popu :
lar type on literature, civics, travel and that
ever-green topic, human nature, good, bad
and indifferent. The rural districts need,
if they do not want, some such institution
as Chautauqua.
Providence seems to have given some of
the churches a back-hander in S. Aus. They
set to work praying for rain and it came —
and saved the grape crop ; in fact, suited it
so very well that the year’s vintage is now
likely to be the heaviest on record. It looks
as though the temperance parson who prays
for rain will have to present Providence with
a time-table in future.
Quarantining, as carried out by the 9432
or so different Australian authorities, is a
really scientific process. For instance. A
farmer on the Kooweerup (Vic.) employed
a few spud-diggers, one of whom developed
influenza. Authority promptly quarantined
the farm and refused to allow anything to
go off it, spuds being notorious ’flu carriers.
But within 15 miles of the G.P.O. are dairy-
farmers still regularly sending their milk to
town, though they have recently had ’flu
patients in their families.
“Exile”: A new cinema
screen has been shown to pic-
ture-show people in Melbourne
lately. F. G. Barnes, of Bris-
bane, is the inventbr, and he
claims that he can save 50 p.c.
of the cost of producing pic-
tures and get better results.
Where 75 amperes were needed
to produce a picture, it is
Alleged that 25- or 30 will be
enough. A stereoscopic effect
is gained, moreover, and the
perspective is greatly length-
ened. There will be no need
to scrap existing machines; but
screens now in use are doomed
to the scrapheap if there is no
nigger on the woodheap. A
company has purchased the
Maoriland rights, and a model
screen will be sent over there
without delay.
A dispute about oldest inhabitants: —
Dear Bulletin,- —As a clinching proof of his con-
tention that the Ilentys were absolutely the first
pioneers of Portland, “F.H.” (B. 20/2/’l9) quotes
a remark alleged to have been made by Edward
Henty in 1872 to the effect that when he landed at
Portland in 1834 there was not a white man nearer
than King George’s Sound on the west and Twofold
Bay on the east. Yet the sealers of Kangaroo Island
and of the other islands off the south coast of Aus-
tralia were white men. According to the evidence of
John Hart, who traded there in 1831-2, they had
built stone huts, had patches of grain and other
accessories of civilisation, not to mention black
wives. That John Griffiths, of Launceston, ship-
builder and shipowner, had a whaling-station at
Portland before the Hentys came there is a
fact or there were some awful perjurers concerned.
Leaving out the traditions of the Griffiths family,
which are very clear on the point (and a daughter
of John Griffiths died in Melbourne only last year),
there is on record the sworn evidence of William
Dutton, the head man of the whaling gang; the
statements of John Hart, captain of one of Griffiths’s
schooners, in a letter written to Governor Latrobe
away back in the ’fifties; and the written statement
of Captain Alee Campbell, another of Griffiths’s
captains, which dates back to the ’eighties. How
did the Hentys find out about Portland Bay, anyway,
if it was not already known to the Launceston
people? They were new settlers who came from
England to the Swan River, and then, not liking
that, moved on to Launceston. Years before that, in
1826, sealers from Port Dalrymple had established
a semi-permanent settlement with two acres under
wheat, besides maize and other grain, on Phillip
Island, in Westernport, and there is every reason to
suppose that there was not much of the Vic. coast
that the Launceston sealers and whalers did not
know about by 1834. Incidentally, “F.H.” talks of
Fawkner’s claim to be the “pioneer of Port Phillip.”
What has become of Griffiths’s fellow townsman,
John Batman ? “F.H.” must have a prejudice
against Parramatta, for he will not give either of
her offspring the benefit of the doubt.—-Yours, D.F.
Another effort is being made to establish a
crematorium near Sydney, and the prospec-
tus of a co. with a capital of £5OOO (20,000
shares of ss. each) has been issued to raise
enough money to get into business on 12
acres at Rook wood Cemetery handed over by
the Government. The N. S. Wales Crema-
tion Co., Ltd., is not being launched as an
“investment” concern, and the provisional
directors —Drs. Paton, Foreman, Kerr and
Creed, M.L.C., Miss Rose Scott and E.
Ivollerstrom —“do not promise any large re-
turn, but believe the co. may pay a small
div. equal to interest on money placed in a
bank.” Cremationists who feel like giving
the enterprise a hand can obtain full particu-
lars from 196 Sussex-street, Sydney. The
Bulletin would sooner see the State in the
business, but since there is apparently no
hope of that, it welcomes P.E. It will even
go so far as to guarantee a customer or two—
later on.
How it looks to London Times :
The Commonwealth is rich in raw material, and
offers many inducements to traders to make their
goods there. Most of the arguments which operated
against such a step before the war do not now hold
good. Wages for skilled workers are no higher in
Australia at the present time than they are in
England.... Before the war the British manufac-
turer could bring his raw material from Australia,
turn it into the finished article, re-ship to the Com-
monwealth, and then sell it as cheaply as the local-
made product. He is not able to do that now, nor
will he be able to do so for an indefinite number of
years.. ..No matter in what direction one looks the
only solution of the difficulty lies in manufacturing
overseas.
Just so. The vast distance that handicaps
us in sending our wheat and butter, etc.,
to Britain is the same handicap to Britain
in sending its goods to us; wherefore
Britain is going to lose its trade either to
the Americans, who live nearer, or to the
Japanese, who not only live nearer but
work longer hours for less money. The
one thing to save the trade for British people
is a high tariff, which will bring the manu-
facturers here and give them safety.
THE UNRESPONSIVE AUDIENCE.
“Mr. owser, Vic. Minister for Public Health,
announced that he world be pleased to employ a
number of the theatrical profession in the capacity
of wardsmen at emergency hospitals.
DOCTOR IN CHARGE : “Surely you're not
resigning already? What's the trouble?"
DISGUSTED PRO .: “No appreciation, sir. All
morning I played my part in there with-
out a fault, and when I finished, damme,
sir, not one hand-clap of applause."
This is a wonderfully interlaced world.
In the; small hut heavily cow-populated outer-
suburbs of Melbourne, brewers’ grains form a
large part of Strawberry’s diet. The tem-
porary stoppage of brewing, following on the
closing of the pubs, has pushed the milk out-
put down the hill, and the producers have put
the price up 2d. a gallon in spite of a mid-
month downpour of over 3in. The grass is
coming up, but a .new fleece of grass, when
50 cows are fed on 25 acres, doesn’t do much
to brim the bucket in the absence of the chief
protein-former.
THE THREE TUNES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Three tunes have the harpers beloved through the
ages,
More sweet than the song-birds that carol apart;
For wiser are they than the wisest of sages,
Because they are learned in the lore of the heart.
The Grief-tune is one of their three tunes of Heaven,
And when the touched strings give it forth to the
night,
Your moods take the grey of the rift cloud, wind-
driven,
Across lonely seas in the vanishing light.
For *ut of dark corners and desolate places
Creep sighings and sobbings and winds winter-cold,
And lost-lights and love-looks, and beautiful faces
That death, coming early, made one with che
mould.
And ever, no sound of his sorrow denying,
You hearken the harper, his harp on his knee;
And maybe ’tis weeping, or maybe ’tis sighing,
Or maybe ’tis mute as Death’s self you will be.
And then, as each note, like a wind on dull embers,
Stirs up the still past till it sears with its blaze,
You’ll know that the soul of the harper remembers —
Remembers and suffers, like you, as he plays.
Three tunes have the harpers beloved through the
ages,
More sweet than the song-birds that carol apart;
For wiser are they than the wisest of sages,
Because they are learned in the lore of the heart.
The Joy-tune is one of their three tunes of Heaven,
And when the touched strings give it forth to
the throng,
Your heart, like the heart of a damsel of seven,
Shall dance and make merry with frolic and song.
For in a cool cavern where huntsmen stand quaffing,
With wood-folk around you and mirth on the
wind,
You’ll find yourself drinking, and jesting and laugh-
ing,
With never a thought of the world on your mind.
The harp of the harper the moment delighting
Shall lift up your soul to be kin with a star ;
Or maybe, if joy lies in thrusting and fighting,
’Tis you will be proving the man that you are.
Its wonder will win you—its fire and its flavor
Of life that leaps out of its music and thrills ;
Or maybe ’tis kissing and courting you’ll favor,
Since kissing and courting are old as the hills.
And, never a note of that melody losing,
You’ll hearken the harper, his harp at his knee;
And maybe ’tis singing, or maybe ’tis musing,
Or maybe ’tis drinking the red wine you’ll be.
And then, as the harp in an ecstasy voices
Keen joyance, all joyance about and above,
You’ll know that the soul of the harper rejoices--
Rejoices, and cares for the things that you love.
*
Three tunes have the harpers beloved through the
ages,
More sweet than the song-birds that carol apart ;
For wiser are they than the wisest of sages,
Because they are learned in the lore of the heart.
The Sleep-tune is third of their three tunas of
Heaven,
And when the touched strings give it forth, sing-
ing low,
A peace beyond telling falls softly, to leaven
Toil’s hurry and worry, life’s passion and woe.
For over dim landscapes you’ll hearken the lowing
Of cattle home-hieing at sunset to rest,
And see in the east, jewel-bright in thejr showing,
Far windows red-lit by the light in the west.
Then harped by the harper the twilight shall follow,
And night with his message of calm and release,
And stars, large and still, set like lamps in the
hollow
Of skies that drop blessings of coolness and peace.
And ever, your mood in his melody steeping,
You’ll hearken the harper, his harp at his knee ;
And maybe ’tis drowsing, or maybe ’tis sleeping,
Or maybe ’tis dreaming of castles you’ll be.
And then, as the harp on a slumber-note closes—
A note trembling down like a star in the west —
You’ll know that the soul of the harper rejoices;
ißejoices, and feels but the riches of rest.
Three tunes have the harpers, all time and all
weather,
Three tunes with a magical, mystical call—
The Grief-tune, the Joy-tune, the Sleep-tuue
together,
And age holds the last as the dearest of all.
N.S.YV.
RODERIC QUINN.


THE MARCH TO LIBERTY— RUSSIAN VERSION.


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
Registered
BMAS
Brand.
Producers of Lead in the following forms —
Refined Lead, Corroding Lead, Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated),
Super-refined Lead, Chemical Lead.
Also of —
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated), Spelter,
and the following Alloys and Metallic Products —
Antimonial Lead, Linotype Metal, Litharge (Industrial and Assay),
Bearing Metals, Leaded Zinc Pigments, Blue Powder.
Purchasers on a Specially Favorable Tariff of Silicious Silver-Lead Ores, Slags, etc.,
containing Silver and Lead, Lead Drosses, Zinc Drosses.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE—
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
LONDON OFFICE: PINNERS HALL. AUSTIN FRIARS, E.C. 2
A. .T. SMITH. London Secretary.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 25 O’CONNELL STREET. SYDNEY—
R. N. KIRK (Agent).
ADELAIDE OFFICE: 62 BROOKMAN’S BUILDING, ADELAIDE—
A. W. LEWIS (Agent).
SMELTING WORKS, PORT PIRIE, S.A.
COKE WORKS, BELLAMBI, N.S.W.
PIONEER Leather Belting
The most efficient and economical power transmitter.
SOLE .
MAKERS
j. c. ludowici <a son ltd.,
PIONEER WORKS, 117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
“ THE STEEL OF THE FUTURE.”
Steel Castings for Mines
TRUCK WHEELS. HAULAGE ROLLERS. ROPE PULLEYS.
PINIONS & GEARS; ROPE CLIPS.
Our 12in. dia. Truck Wheels weigh 281 b.
Under Test they Withstand 19 Tons on the Tread before fracture.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.,
ALEXANDRIA, SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Melbourne Steamship Co. :
Added Nomi-
Gross to Re- nal Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, ’11..£16,978 9 p.e. = £7,650 £9,328 £99,659
Dec., ’ll.. 12,968 9 „ „ 7,650 5,318 104,977
June, ’12.. 17,900 9 „ „ 7,650 10,250 115,227
Premiums on new shares.. 6,800 122,027
£5OOO written off . . . . 117,027
Dec., ’12.. 8,715 7 p.e. = 6,843 1,872 118.899
June, ’13.. 20,107 8 ~ „ 8,100 11,947 130,846
Dec., ’13.. 21,164 8 „ ~ 8,160 13.004 143,850
June, ’14.. 16,966 7 ~ ~ 7,140 9,826 153,076
Pref. Ord. Total.
Dec., ’l4. . 17,409 6p.e. Bp.c. 8,463 8.946 102,622
June, ’15.. 29,371 6 „ 15 „ 10,079 13,292 175,914
Transferred to capital, £51,000 124,914
Dec., ’l5. . 32,433 6p.c. lOp.c. 13,530 18.903 143,817
June. ’16.. 33,045 6 „ 10 „ 13,530 19,515 163,332
Deci, ’16.. 27,598 6 „ 10 „ 13,530 14,068 177,400
June, ’17.. '29,201 6 ~ 10 ~13.530 15,071 193,071
Rec., ’17.. 48,950 6 „ 10 „ 13,530 35,420 228,491
June,’lB.. 32.466 6 „ 10 „ 13,530 18,930 247,427
Transferred to capital, £85,000 162,427
Dec., ’lB.. 30,593 6p.c. lOp.c. 15,655 14,938 177,365
“During the terrible war we made sueli tine
fat profits that we thought it more prudent
to drop some of them quietly into two handy
stockings. During the two years to June,
1918, we put into the insurance fund five
times the amount added during the previous
two years and we also almost doubled the
depreciation, renewals and contingencies
appropriation. For a start we are now
shaking out £85,000, which we are tacking on
to your capital, representing a bonus of 33;)
p.e. We ask you to accept this as a memento
of what you did in the great war.” There
is not a whisper concerning the capitalisation
of reserves in the directors’ report, so The
Bulletin has obliged and filled the gap as
above.
Of course, though the Melbourne S.S. Co.
was not pursued by U-boats every time
its vessels put to sea, it was reasonable to
expect the management to make some addi-
tional provision for contingencies during the
war years. But this shows the pace at
which these reserve funds were built up:—
Additions to
Additions Reserves for
to Depreciation,
Insurance Renewals and
Reserve. Contingencies.
Dec., 1914 .. .. £1322 £7,000
June, 1915 .. .. 1445 11,500
June, 1916 .. .. 1585 7,952
Dec., 1916 .. .. 5928 8,100
June, 1917 .. .. 7189 16,943
Dec., 1917 . . ~ 6845 30,064
June, 1918 . . .. 7199 10,000
Dec., 1918 .. .. £14,677
Of the £85,000 capitalised apparently £20,000
has come from the insurance reserve and the
rest from the reserve for contingencies.
Take another View of the co.’s progress.
During the four years to December, 1914,
profits, including the amounts added to vari-
ous reserves, averaged £33,051 per annum :
for the last four years, £65,914 per annum.
Though shareholders have put up only
£26,000 (in 6 p.e. prefs., by the way) since
the war started, profits have been practically
doubled. True, they have not all come from
passage money and freights. The co. sold
three of its steamers —the Kapunda (3097
tons), Sydney (1989 tons) and Brisbane
(1139 tons) —and no doubt handsome sur-
pluses in excess of the book values were
obtained. Shipping appreciated to such an
extent during Wilhelm’s strafing that old
tubs which were nearing the close of their
ocean-going careers have fetched more than
their original cost. During the four years
to December, 1914, several new vessels were
added to the fleet; since then the three
steamers mentioned have been sold, but no
new ones put on the register. The effect on
the balance-sheet has been as follows
1910. 1914. 1918.
Liquid assets .. .. £56,051 £68,819 £334,400
Liabilities . . . . 24,732 63,830 83,405
Surplus . . . . £31,319 £4,989 £250,995
Steamships and other -
non-liquid assets . . £237,062 £393,450 £301,761
So after paying 6 p.e. on the small preference
capital and 10 p.e. to the ordinaries and hav-
ing sold three vessels, the surplus of liquid
assets has grown by £246,000 in four years;
while the only new capital got in was the
small balance of the pref, issue not paid up
at December, 1914, £3147. In the same time
the book value of the fleet has been reduced
by only £91,689. Shareholders have had a
gorgeous time, for in addition to the hand-
some dividends their £204.000 holding of
ordinary capital lias grown to £340,000 by
the issue of bonus shares during the four
years. The present 10 p.c. is thus really 15
p.c. on their money.
The Bank of Queensland :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Julv, 1917. . £17,220 6 p.c. = £14,268 £2952 £2,952
Jan'., 1918.. 17,242 6 „„ 14,175 30G7 6,019
July, 1918.. 17,298 6 „ „ 14,175 3123 9,142
Jan., 1919.. 18,052 6 „ „ 14,175 3877 13,019
That completes the second year of the
amalgamated Royal of Queensland and
Bank of North Queensland. In spite of the
disordered state of industrial affairs up
North, no ground seems to have been lost
by the amalgamation ; at any rate, the gross
profit for the past; year was £124,356, com-
pared with £110,095, the aggregate of
the gross profits of the two - old concerns
in 1916. So far, however, the joining :>f
forces has not reduced exes. The £110,095
of 1916 was cut into to the extent of £65,681,
leaving a net profit of £44,414. From last
year’s £124.386 exes, took £89,036, giving a
net profit of only £35,350. Of course, the
actual profits may be greater, the manage-
ment not being the sort to. make no provision
for contingencies at the outset. The growth
of exes, is largely due to a lift in salaries,
especially of the old Royal staff; and taxes
have been increased.
The next comparison shows how the bal-
ance-sheet figures have moved during the
year:—
Jan., 1918. Jan., 1919.
Deposits . . . . £2,964,030 £3,074,617
Al] other liabilities . . 152,909 202,827
Liquid assets .. .. 1,499,407 1,027,321
Advances . . . . 1,930,226 2,572,318
Premises . . . . 157,500 155,000
The Queensland’s customers took up over
£840,000 of Sixth and Seventh War Loans
under the 90 p.c. advance arrangement, and
this has thrown a shadow on the liquid posi-
tion. A year ago over 48 p.c. of all liabili-
ties were within instant reach; now the
proportion is only slightly over 31 p,.c. Under
the abnormal circumstances the position
is safe, of course, and it is being strengthened
as customers come forward with their instal-
ments. Against the millions of public’s
money not represented by cash, notes and
Government securities there is £2,572,318
of advances and £155,000 in premises. And
that both these latter items are in a healthily
written-down condition can be guaranteed
by the fact that it is only two years since
the old managements dug into each other’s
vaults and applied acid to the securities be-
fore recommending amalgamation. Capital
is £450,000. Incidentally this bank is follow-
ing the fashion and will issue a balance-sheet
only once a year in future.
N.S.W. Fresh Food and Ice Co., Ltd.
(Sydney) :
Added to Re-
Dec.. Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1909. . £11,085 6 p.c. =£5,504 £5,581 £47,625
1910.. 24,355 12 ~,,11,008 13,347 60,972
1911.. 25,594 11 ~,,12,842 12,752 73,724
Transferred to Capital. £55,038 .. 18,686
1912.. 39,417 lllp.c.= 16,328 23,089 41,775
1913.. 31,727 111 „ „ 17,062 14,665 56,440
Transferred to Capital, £ 18,346 .. 38,094
1914.. 28,760 114p.c.= 17,796 10,964 49,058
1915.. 16.478 81 „ „ 13,851 2,627 5.1,685
1916.. 13,732 8 ~ ~ 13,209 523 52,208
1917.. 20,192 10 ~ „ 16,511 3,681 55,889
1918.. 17,979 10 „,, 16,511 1,468 57,357
Wages Boards, price-fixing commissions and
produce pools have scattered thorns on the
path of roses which this co. once travelled.
Profits were then dependent chiefly on the
seasons; and this factor, of course, is still
important. The co. has a big milk turn-
over ; but conditions have been so unfavor-
able lately that very small profit has come
from that source. The scarcity of freights
has also frost-bitten the nrofits from cold-
storage. It is thus not surprising that the
net profits for the past five years are 26 p.c.
less than those for the previous five. Share-
holders have not felt the pinch, however,
for during the later period they have had
£77,878 in d’vidends compared with £62,(44
between 1900-14. . But as a result of mak-
ing a larger distribution from a smaller
profit, reserves have grown by only £19,263
—over £50,000 less than was stored up in
the previous period.
A comparison of the balance-sheet figures
comes next: —
1908. 1913. 1918.
Liabilities .. .. £17,042 £25,494 £55,458
Property, plant, etc. .. 100,135 118,527 176,613
Stock ' 10,394 14,404 29,037
Cash and investments.. 19,769 71,041 28,098
Book debts . . . , 23,271 33,629 52,430
Between 1908 and 1913 £65.000 was piled
up in liquid assets (including stock). De-
ducting the increase in liabilities, the liquid
surplus in the latter year was £93,580, a
growth of over £57.000 in the five years.
Meantime the book value of fixed assets had
grown by £18,400. No new capital had been
got in, so the co.’s position had been im-
proved by over £75,000. Since 1913 the
book value of properties and plant, etc..
has expanded by £5B 000, but meantime the
more or less liquid surplus has shrunk
£39,400-ode*, indicating an improvement of
about £18,600 for the five years, after pay-
ing divs. Considerably more than half of
this improvement was made in 1914, which
was a very good year. On these figures
the 10 p.c. dividend doesn’t look very secure.
But shareholders who got in prior to, say,
1910, when the co.’s 10s. shares could be
picked i p for 15s. 6d., have no cause for
complaint. Capital used to be £91,730, in
183,460 shares of 10s. each. These shares
are now paid up to 18s.; that additional Bs.
representing capitalised reserves (£73,384).
So on the old capital the present 10 p.c. div.
is equal to IS p.c., and even under present
unfavorable conditions the shares are fetching
225. and over in the market.
* * * *
The Land Mortgage Bank of Victoria :
Profit Loss on
on Property Total Dividend. Re-
Business. Sales. Profit. (8 p.c.) serves.
June, 1913.. £2347 £lO £2337 £2,332 £39,354
Profit. (7 p.c.)
Dec., 1913.. 2704 187 2591 2,079 39.566
June, 1914.. 2560 137 2697 2,679 39.551
I.oss. (7 p.c.)
Dee., 1914.. 2068 85 2583 2,679 39,488
June, 1915.. 2473 164 2309 2.679 39,118
(0 p.c.)
Dec., 1915.. 2507 10 2497 2,296 39,319
June, 1916.. 2252 2252 2,296 39,305
' Profit. (7 p.c.)
Doc., 1910.. 2907 195 3102 2678 39,729
June, 1917.. 2714 83 2797 2678 39,848
(8 p.c.)
Dec., 1917.. 2891 241 3132 3061 39 919
June, 1918.. 2983 2983 3061 39,841
Dec., 1918.. 3088 120. .3208 3061 39,988
A few years ago this derelict of the Big
Smash was taken into a combined home
and mortuary provided by the Freehold
Assets Co., which gives Christian burial also
to the Freehold Investment and other der-
elicts. When trouble hit the Land Mortgage
Bank its paid capital w r as a quarter of a
million, and it had almost a million of
debentures. Capital was quite insufficient
to meet creditors’ demands. A further
£2 10s. per share (they were £5 each, paid
to £1) was called up—a lot of it couldn’t
be got in, of course—and promptly written
off to .meet losses. When the Freehold
Assets bought the show in 1012 at 12s. per
share, capital was only £76,529, in 145,770
shares of 10s. (Id. All the old freehold pro-
perties having been unloaded, practically
all that was left for the new owner was to
collect the instalments as they fell due and
find employment for the money. This shows
what progress has been made: —-
Dec.,’l2. June,’lB. Dec.,’lB.
Mortgages .. .. £7,561 £26,001 £28,221
Balances owing.. .. 52,256 21,511 21,170
Properties . . . . 973
Cash, debentures, etc... 39,403 72,321 70,811
Total assets . . £100,193 £119,833 £120,202
Liabilities . . . . 50 30 230
Net assets .. £100,143 £119,803 £119,972
Possibly, the moratorium has interfered some-
what with repayments during the war ; never-
theless three-fifths of the balances owing six
years ago have been got in. The Freehold
Assets Co. bought the old concern out for
12s. per share, and shortly afterwards paid
up another 2s. (id. per share. If the assets
are worth 20s. in the £ then there is about
16s. 6d. for each share. And the eo. has
been getting a dividend averaging about 7
p.c.
The Newcastle and Hunter River
Steamship Co. (N.S.W.) :
To Re- Re-
Dec., Pi-ofit*. Dividends. serves. serves.
1908.. f £5,102 6 p.c. = £6,000 1 £11,516
( Written off, £2500 J
1909.. 6,152 6 p.c. = 6,000 £152 11,668
1910.. 7,239 6 „„ 6,000 1,239 12,907
1911.. 5,837 6 „ „■ 6,000 12,744
1912.. 8,969 7 ~ „ 7,000 1,969 14,713
1913.. 10.027 7 „„ 7,000 3,027 17,740
1914.. 12,753 7 „ ~ 7,000 5,753 23,493
1915.. 11,9.33 8 „ „ 8,000 6,933 30.426
1916.. 24,652 9 ~ ~ 9,000 15,652 46,078
1917.. 9,94 S 9 „„ 9,000 948 47,026
1918.. 14,530 10 „ „ 10,000 4,530 51,556
The war did not help this coastal shipping
co. to any extent, apart from the profit
made by sale of the Karuah to the Federal
Government two years ago. It is not so
long since disclosed profits on several occa-
sions were insufficient to pay the 6 p.c. div.;
but the co.’s position has been steadily im-
proved over a number of years until for the
past 12 months there was a nice margin left
after paying the increased div. The figures
in the table above may not tell the actual
position from year to year, since no clue is
given in the accounts as to the extent assets
have been written down. In almost all
shipping concerns, large and small, it is the
fashion to quietly put a good slice of the
profits in the safe to feed depreciation and
contingencies. If, as often happens, more
than ample is put aside, cos. are really doing
better than their disclosed profits indicate.
There is more than a hint in the following
comparison that this management has not
spared the knife :
1908. 1913. 1917. 1918.
Ship property .. £88,550 £49,600 £39,990 £45,641
Freeholds, etc. . . 3,291 1,357 1,077 1,107
Plant, etc 5,494 3,854 4,577 5,468
Liquid assets .. 25,625 76,343 129,453 130,941
Capital is still the same as it was in 1908 —
£lOO,OOO in shares of £1 each. Including
dividend provision all liabilities 10 years
ago amounted to £11,072; at December 31
last £31,378. So besides paying shareholders
an average of over 8 p.c., and making addi-
tions to the fleet and plant, etc., out of
earnings, over £85,000 of liquid assets have
been piled up—not far short of the total
book value of the fleet 10 years ago. What
is the actual present value of the steamers
Tiie Bulletin has no idea, but though their
book value has shrunk from £88.550 to
£15,041 since 1908, it is clear that the pre-
sent boats are earning considerably more
than when the co. admitted to a fleet of
a\nost double the book value. At present
practically the whole of shareholders’ capi-
tal is represented by Government securities
and deposits; but these will have to be cut
into when the co. replaces some of the older
boats or adds to its fleet, which it will un-
doubtedly have to do if Newcastle continues
to expand.
* * * *
The Eouitaule Building Society
(Launceston, Tas.) :
Divi- Added to
Pec., Profits. (lends. Reserves. Reserves.
1906 .. £2774 £2445 £329 £14,694
1907 .. 2431 2155 276 14,970
1908 .. 2541 2257 234 15,254
1909 .. 2504 2303 261 15,515
1910 .. 2573 2779 15,309
1911 .. 3002 2 323 176 15,485
1912 .. 2990 2917 73 15,558
1913 .. 3568 3237 231 15,839
1914 .. 3750 3344 412 16,251
1915 .. 3819 3355 464 16,715
1916 . 3758 3300 458 17,173
1917' . . • 3506 3088 418 17,591
1918 . . 3714 3024 690 18,281
This little' mutual building co.’s management
proceeded cautiously in the matter of
advances during the war. Apparently in
the four years to December last £84.292 of
repayments were got in. but only £6B,SOS
was re-invested in mortgages. Meantime
capital has shrunk from £53,575 lo £44,733
and deposits from £55,190 to £47,949 —prob-
ably chiefly because the thrifty who might
have been attracted to this co. have put their
savings into war loans. The Equitable’s
capital is made up mostly of subscriptions
on shares taken up for a period of years,
“calls” being made monthly until the shares
reach the mature value of £5O. The society
pays a yearly interest to shareholders, and
from surplus profits declares a bonus (ss.
per share lately) which is tacked on to the
capital and handed out at maturity. This
compares the position over a number of
years:—-
1905. 1914. 1916. 1917. 1918.
Capital . . £46,904 £53,575 £48,745 £47,904 £44,733
Deposits. . 61,959 55,190 51,528 50,500 47,949
Mortgages 114,162 112,345 102,225 96,681 96,861
Besides the mortgages, at December 31 last
there was £15.259 in liquid assets, £2106 in
premises, and £715 in loans on shares, etc.
The position from the depositors’ point of
view was thus snug; to meet their £32,690
not represented by liquid assets there were
£97,576 in advances and £2106 in premises.
* * * *
The Charters Towers (Q.) Gas Co.. —
This co. reckoned to keep the whole field to
itself by adding an electric plant to its gas-
works. But things did not pan out as anti-
cipated. and after showing a string of losses
shareholders have definitely decided to switch
off the juice at the end of this month. For
the half-year to December 31 a profit of
£792 was made on a gas revenue of £3424.
Deducting the loss of £l4l on the electric
branch, 1 p.c. depreciation on plant, etc.,
and also legal exes, and taxes, there re-
mained a net profit of £552, £525 of which
has been absorbed by a div. at the rate of
5 p.c. p.a. Despite the failure of the elec-
tric enterprise, the little co.’s financial posi-
tion is comfortable. To meet liabilities of
£689 there are more or less liquid assets
amounting to over £4OOO. Capital is
£20,000 in 40,000 shares of 10s. each.
The Q.N.’s long-expected increase of capi-
tal is announced. Present lot is £4BOJkX) in
160,000 £5 shares paid to £3. It is proposed
to get in the uncalled £2 (probably by, four
quarterly calls), making the paid-up capital
£BOO,OOO. For the past half-year the direc-
tors handed out a first div. at the rate of
10 p.c. p.a. If the same rate is maintained,
£40,000 will be required each half. As dis-
closed' net profits are now at almost the
£54,000 mark, there would still be a good
margin even if the new capital sat down
and did nothing. Incidentally, the directors
wish to be more impressive in Melbourne,
and new premises were recently acquired in
Collins-street. It is also proposed to balance
only once a year in future —at June 30.
* * * *
The market’s latest strong fancy has been
the Union Bank, and the rumor has got
around that an amalgamation is pending—
with the ’Asia, some have it. But the Aus-
tralian managements know nothing about it;
and if the thing has been mentioned at all
m London negotiations have certainly not
got very far.


The British Westinghouse Electric & Mtg. Co., Ltd.
Everything Electrical
whether for the production, distribution or application of electricity
for power and lighting purposes is manufactured bv the British
Westinghouse Electric & Mfg. Co., Ltd. They offer tbe advantage
of undivided responsibility for power and lighting equipments.
Their productions include Steam Turbines; Turbo-Generators;
Blowers and Compressors; Condensers; Gas, Oil and Diesel Engines;
A.C. and D.C. Generators and Motors; Electric Tramway and Railway
Equipments; Transformers and Converters ; Switch and Control Gear;
Meters and Instruments; Lamps, Fans, and all Electrical Accessories.
fottnpl)Ottgf
Manchestei
Head Office for Australia :
Queensland Building, 84, William Street, Melbourne.
Works -Trafford Park, Manchester, England.
Particular attention is called to the comprehen-
siveness of the 1919 line of G.E. electric fans. The
features of construction, the operating efficiency,
the effectiveness" of air delivery, the quietness of
operation, and the attractive appearance combine
to make G.E. electric fans the choice of discriminat-
ing buyers. Come in and select your fan. We
stock all sizes. Australian General Electric Com-
pany, Wentworth Avenue, Sydney; and corner nf
Queen and Little Collins Street, Melbourne. — Advt.
Conserved water, especially in country districts,
quickly becomes contaminated. To drink such water
exposes one to grave danger from disease. Alumino-
ferric quickly clarifies and purifies water in dams,
tanks, etc. You use it in the proportion of lib. to
every 8000 gallons of water. Most effective and quite
harmless. Used by leading Water Supply Boards
throughout Australia. William Adams & Co., Ltd.,
175 Clarence Street, Sydney. Melbourne: 521-3 Col-
lins Street. Adelaide: 96 Currie Street. Brisbane:
Corner Edward and Mary Streets. Perth: 33 King
Street. — Advt. [3
X- * * *
Concentrating machinery for all classes of minerals
can be made locally just as well as they can be
imported from abroad. The Austral Otis Engineer-
ing Company, of Melbourne, specialise in all
machinery for the mill, including crushers, rolls,
grinding pans, tube mills, concentrating tables,
flotation plants, ore samplers, etc. They have
installed numbers of plants in Australia and outside
it, and are always ready to give information on
machinery for milling.— Advt. [4
* * * *
Corroded pipes a thing of the past. Pioneer
Wood Pipe has made all the difference to the
engineer. He can now plan a permanent system by
specifying Pioneer Wood Pipe, which remains un-
changinglv efficient throughout an unlimited length
of service. Send for illustrated catalogue. The
Australian Wood Pipe Company Limited (Head
Office, Burns Bay, Lane Cove). P.O. address: Box
1576 G.P.0., Sydney. Contractors to all State
Governments.— Advt.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorney, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.— Advt.
• • • •
Australian PATENTS from P. M. NEWTON, Patent
Attorney, Fink’s Bids., Melbourne, op. Patent Office.
—Advt.
“The greatest good to the greatest number,” is the
motto of Lottoid Hard Wall Plaster Sheets, for
ceilings, partitions and inner walls. Covers old
cracked walls and ceilings; fine for homes, offices
and stores. Combines permanency and positive
economy; no trace of fibre; will not rot or crack:
fire and vermin resisting. Made in 21 convenient
sizes. Spriggs’ Asbestolite Company, 338 Pitt
Street, Sydney.— Advt.
The manufacture of “Skandia” Crude Oil Engines
in Australia, both marine and industrial types, is
receiving the recognition that the enterprise deserves.
The Federal Government has placed an order for a
large marine set, and their example has been followed
by several of the largest trading firms in Australia,
Tasmania, the Pacific Islands and Dutch East Indies.
The workmanship of the Australian “Skandia” com-
pares with any imported engine on the market.
Write Nelson & Robertson, Loftus Street, Sydney.—
Advt.
* * * *
Macquarie Street and Circular Quay. Exceptional
opportunity for sound investment. Erect residential
flats by altering and adding to a stone building
with four floors, on land having 29ft. lin. frontage
to Macquarie Street, by a depth of 68ft. Bin., facing
Circular Quay, where shops should readily let.
Torrens title. Price £9250. Excluding all indoor
fittings. Apply to owners, Box 2547 G.P.0., Syd-
ney.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS.-—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * » *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. 11. B. Selby & Co.,
Ltd., 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Sydney; and 443 Bourke Street, Melb.— Advt.
T. H. Palmer, 8.E., Fel. Chem. Soe., etc., consult-
ing engineer, valuing, organising, technical advice,
mining, metallurgy, flotation and selective flotation
processes, Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 Pitt
Street, Sydney. Cables and Telegrams: “Remlap,
Melbourne.”— Advt.
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Loss of Profits
Insure in
Th ‘ 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital .. £250,000
Subscribed Capital .. 194,235
Paid-up Capital .. 96,291
Income (Cross) 1917 .. 249,000
Established 1910.
AGENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Pig Iron, Billets, Blooms, Steel Rails,
Structural Steel, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON-3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE-75 King William Street
SYDNEY-25 O’Connell Street
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
If the Commonwealth Government’s claim
against the Colonial Combing, Weaving and
►Spinning Co., Ltd., goes to court, there’ll be
some interesting stuff for the evening papers.
This is the co. which in 1915 took over the
seven-.vear-old business of F. W. Hughes,
Ltd., one of the concerns that had been
manufacturing wool-tops with the help of a
Government bonus. The F. W. Hughes,
Ltd., accounts were always available to The
Bulletin, and they didn’t disclose any fat-
ness. The war, however, altered the posi-
tion, and under the new title the directors
have not been so anxious for publicity. Any-
how, The Bulletin has been handed nothing
more than a smile when a request has been
made for balance-sheets. The most that can
he gathered from official records is that the
shares are practically all in the hands of F.
W. Hughes, while the interests of other
holders in the old co. are apparently repre-
sented in the new concern by 7 p.c. deben-
tures, £107,150 of the authorised issue of
£lBO,OOO being used in the business in 1915.
For the past two years the industry has been
prospering under the wing of the Central
Wool Committee. Last year the Committee
set out to “regulate” the industry and limit
profits, which was followed by disagreements
and the temporary closing down of the co.’s
works. The Central Wool Committee is
now claiming £282,000 alleged to be due
under the agreement, and also a quarter of
a million for alleged breach of agreement.
By the way, this is the co. with which ex-
Prime Minister J. O. Watson finds a desk
far removed from the noise of politics.
Occidental, Cobar (N.S.W.), directors
have presented what will probably be their
last report. The property is under offer to
J. Negus, late of Mount Boppy, and if
negotiations are completed there will be a
new co. _ This will consist of 50,000 shares
of £l, 15,000 to be issued fully paid-up to
present shareholders, the balance of 35,000
to be sold and £5OOO of the proceeds to be
used to pay the present co.’s creditors.
The option expired on February 25. but
Negus, who is in England, has been granted
six weeks’ extension, and it is considered
probable that the deal will come off, John
Bull finding the money.
Great Cobar has been putting on its best
clothes in anticipation of a visit from Pellew
Harvey, one of its London directors and a
mining expert. Cobarites are anxiously
waiting to hear what is on the cards, par-
ticularly as about 100 acres north-west of
the present workings have been recently
pegged, notwithstanding that the co. already
has sufficient land around Cobar and Ches-
ney for a small sheep-station. Great Cobar
underground is looking fairly well; sub-
stantial blocks of ore being opened up in
the top levels. The fly in the ointment
is the fall in copper and the continued high
cost of supplies.
At the beginning of this year the N. S.
Wales Mines Dept, got a cheer or two from
the prospector when it announced its inten-
tion of reducing the rent on mining areas
from ss. to Is. per acre. Now it seems
that the thing was loaded, the fee for the
issue of the lease having been lifted from
one pound to three. So a prospector who
takes up five acres starts off scratch £1
lighter than he used to.
Wellington Phosphates (N.S.W.) has had
enough. The co, should never have been
floated. Capital was £50,000; and when
about 6000 tons had been got out the “rich
and enormous” deposits fizzled. In despera-
tion the co. tested another kind of rock ; but
the result was the same kind of blank. All
that is left is £l4OO worth of machinery and
the rights to the leases, which are to be auc-
tioned.
* * * *
General-manager Delprat, of the Broken
Hill Prop., leaves for U.S.A. this week,
mainly—so far as business is concerned —
in connection with steel manufactures.
» * * »
Because every Ballarat district mine petered
out at or about 1000 ft., save the old Star of-tihe
East, on the Plateau, nearly all Daylesford
shows have for the past; tw T o years been
scratching near the surface for something to
turn up. The late George Buchanan was
the plucky one on the field, and he decided to
sink 400 ft. dead on end at the Ajax Central
to see if gold lived below the belt of barren
sandstone on which Daylesford mining rests.
This put the Central down to 1440 ft. There,
driving north, where the shoots should have
been, for weary months disclosed only the
usual mixture of poor stuff. Tired out, the
co. went back to the crosscut and, as a pure
gamble, set out south. Now Daylesford is
jangling joybells because a few feet of driving
has brought splendid gold into the face. The
boundary is only 130 ft. away, so the Central
hasn’t a big shoot, unless the pitch is north
or the gold goes overhead or underfoot.
Ajax, next door north, isn’t likely to
benefit; but the two Nuggettys to the south
ought to be in the hunt.
The first burst of optimism over Sloane
and Scotchman’s, Stawell (Vic.), came from
manager Couchman’s pen: “I feel confident
the old mine is just starting on a new lease
of life,” and “as soon as it is sufficiently
opened up to keep the battery going three
shifts we should be able to show a good pro-
fit every month.” Now r V. Pabst considers
“the property a good mining venture” —good
old phrase—and he feels confident “the
Magdala lode contains shoots of good pay-
able ore other than that found by the original
owners.” Well, there would have to be
something new if Sloane's is to get out of the
ranks of the has-beens. On top of all this
comes the news that the latest crushing
showed only sdwt. stone and that the
Extended shoot had not only narrowed, but
also fallen in grade from Bdwt. to sdwt.
Prospects north are more comforting beyond
the Magdala shoot, but the market isn’t likely
to get rid of the hump until Coucliman opens
out from the old Sloane’s shaft at 1000 ft.
and proves that the Extended shoot goes up
to that level. Calls furnished about a third
of the gold last half-year. If a change for
the better doesn’t materialise soon the plate
will have to go round again.
Water washed the ancient miner out of
Whroo (Vic.) 30 years ago, and with him
went the glory of Rushworth. The legend
to-day after these years of water-logged
claims is that the old-timers didn’t know how
to beat the inflow, and so let slabs of loz.
to lOoz. stone slip out of sight underfoot.
This yarn has often been a lure to mining-
men during recent years, but, except in the
case of Al, they have had to pay the piper.
Now A. ,7. Macgeorge is on the hunt round
the Balaklava Hill claim. At the moment
he is hard at work at the pumps, preparatory
to finding out if the shoots live at 300 ft.,
after which he will dive down to 400 ft. to
test the old story of the rich stone going
underfoot. His job is to test for the old
Centre, Northern and Pitman’s shoots, all
of which had a record at shallow depths. A
lot of hard work will be required to prove
their existence further down.
* * * *
When Ivanhoe (W.A.) put through its
January crushing the total quantity of
ore treated from the mine passed the
four millions mark (short tons). Since
the co. ’ started just over 21 years
ago 68 tons llcwt. fine gold, worth over
millions, had been taken out of the show.
At. December 31 last ore reserves were
estimated at just over a million tons
averaging 345. per ton —slightly less in quan-
tity but about the same value as they were
12 months ago. Since the porphyry bar
made a mess of the mine at depth, more
attention has been paid to the top levels, and
as a result a good deal of payable ore passed
over in the early days of opulence and ineffi-
ciency has been exposed. How far this
ore extends in the walls of the stopes which
are filled, and how far down the mine there
may have been left anything of sufficient
value to take out and treat, is now being
determined. Some time ago chairman
Govett told shareholders that there was a
sure 6s. 6d. per annum in dividends for at
least eight years, and the mine is as good
now as then. Working exes, nowadays
absorb a little over 77 p.c. of the gross value
of the gold won.
* * * *
Great Boulder (W.A.) ore reserves are
now estimated at 345,719 long tons, com-
pared with 387.511 tons a year ago—a
shrinkage of 41,792 tons. During the year
the co. treated .170,461 tons, so that although
development was not nearly as extensive as
it used to be, the new ore opened up was not
a great deal short of the quantity taken out.
At the present rate of extraction the re-
serves are over two years ahead of the mill,
but the undertaker won’t be called in for
several years after that.
* * * *
“Nitro” : For the further rise in the price
of explosives the Westralian mine-owner can
thank the Mines Department, which, by shut-
ting out the Cape Explosives products, has
given the Explosives Combine a monopoly.
It is significant that in other States prices
have actually been reduced since Armaged-
don fizzled out. The Cape Explosives Works,
backed by De Beers, came into the Austra-
lian trade in 1909, and after the first year
Broken Hill was fretting its supplies at 595.
per case instead of the previous 675. 6d.
John Darling, of the B. H. Prop., reckoned
the competition was saving the cos. £125,000
per annum. The unions at first did not take
kindly to the S’African stuff, but an inquiry
into the Cape products settled all doubts.
The Westralian Mines Department’s repre-
sentative at the inquiry, however, reported
adversely, and though all the Broken Hill
shows, Mt. Morgan, Bendigo Amalgamated,
Mt. Lyeli and'a score of other big concerns
are using the S’African product, it is still
barred from Westralia. “In the interests of
the mining industry,” the Inter-State Com-
mission recommended that the S’African ex-
plosives, which had been imported at a 5 p.c.
higher duty than the Combine’s, should be
given the same preference, adding that “it
would be a calamity from a mining point
of view if S’African explosives were kept
out.”
* * * *
Geologist Blatchford has reported on the
new coal find in the south-west of Westralia.
Only one shaft out of eight was accessible,
but from a general examination Blatchford
came to the conclusion that the seams were
of the same age and quality as those at
Collie, though not equal to the higher grade
deposits on that field.
W. Bethune’s report on the Trong’s off-
spring, the Kalumpang, is just off the stocks
with a beautiful plan to show how well he
earned his fee. The eo. holds over 500 acres,
but neither Melbourne Board nor Bethune
knows the whereabouts of 130 acres lately
bought. A. E. Lewis, when pioneering 370
acres, put down 361 bores. On 100 acres
he averaged 0.891b.' oxide per cub. yd.; on
another 100 acres 1.061 b.; and on the balance
of the area 0.481 b., which isn’t payable.
Bethune’s checking was 53 acres 0.841 b. oxide
per yd. and 94 acres 1.221 b. per yd. So as
far as he went he confirmed Lewis’s work.
Now the dredge will prove everything. As
the ground is free dirt and only about 25ft.
deep, things must hum if the show lives up
to the sampling.
The falling-off in values in the Bischoff
(Tas.) has been causing much concern to
manager Millen and his staff during the past
12 months. Being firmly convinced that
the whole of the tin system is connected with
the dykes, a complete survey has been made
and a comprehensive contour map plotted
which has brought high praise from Govern-
ment Geologist Twelvetrees. The directors
have bought a drill with which Millen in-
tends systematically testing the lodes. He
reckons that No. 1 lode north is as rich as
anything that has ever been on the mine, and
his address to shareholders at the recent
meeting was optimistic all through. But
he was silent as to the success or otherwise
of the tube mill, about which he said so
much at a previous meeting; so shareholders
must draw their own conclusions. An in-
crease in milling returns was hinted at;
also the necessity for further extensive ex-
periments along various lines. Incidentally,
the directors received an unpleasant surprise
when, without a dissentient voice, their
aggregate fees were fixed at £4OO for the
ensuing year. Their previous pickings
amounted to £675 per annum, the six direc-
tors cutting it up by mutual arrangement.
* * * *
From a Speck tin man :—•
Ever since Bisehoff’s smelting works closed down
for the Christmas holidays, tin-ore scratchers in the
Speck have been having a bad time. The price up
to the time of closing was 40s. per unit. After, the
New Year word went round that the ore-buyers in
Launceston were not operating, partly because it
was almost impossible to get metal out of the
Commonwealth, and also because of the shyness of
foreign tin-dealers. This state of affairs lasted for a
month, during which time the men who before
were making a little more than tucker and boots
were being thrust into a tight corner. When buy-
ing recommenced at 425. per unit few scratchers had
water to sluice with. The Pioneer Co. had to
close down. The further slump in the price (local
unit price is now 335.) makes the outlook still blacker.
The tin situation is full of mystery. Those - cos.
which want to sell their metal abroad on their own
account cannot do so owing to the Federal embargo,
and are forced to dispose to firms which offer prices
ranging from £2O to £3O per ton below the day’s
middle spot quotation published by the Australian
Metal Exchange. Meantime they have to be content
with the assurance of the Acting Prime Minister
that everything will be all right by the end of this
month.
* * * *
Great Fitzroy (Q.) was heard from again
the other day, when an application was made
for further exemption. On the manage-
ment promising to say something definite at
the end of the period, a six months’ renewal
was recommended. Last year only 201 tons
bagged ore and matte —the lot worth about
£lOO0 —were sent to Port Kembla. The
prospects of a resurrection are none too rosy,
unless science can unearth more economical
treatment processes.
* * * *
South Aus. School of Mines and Sydney
Uni. have been testing roofing slates from the
Australian quarries, Willunga (S.A.), and
chemical analysis and mechanical tests prove
they are quite equal to the imported purple
Bangor. A test piece was immersed in water
for 24 hours and absorbed 0.24 of its weight
in water. Another piece exposed to the action
of hydrochloric acid (10 per cent.) and sul-
phurous acid showed no effect other than
action on the carbonates. Prof. Warren
(Sydney) says the samples are superior to
the imported. Large quantities of excellent
material are now being produced at the
quarries, which have acquired their new
lease of life through the energy of John
Dunstan, a Sydney architect, whose family
has been interested in the properties for
balf-a-century.
The Electricity Commission, which has
been appointed by the Vic. Government is
more particularly to devote its attention to
the development of the brown coal at Mor-
weil. Swinburne is the business-man of the
outfit.
(Continued on page 32.)




fAUhPtNg?
ftntvft»g£
srpttlr
PERTH AND LONDON
Use a genuine, high-grade
Australian Product in
FAULDING’S
Medicinal
EPSOM SALTS.
SPECIALLY REFINED AND
GUARANTEED PURE.
Sold in loz. Packets, lib. Cartons, and Bulk
in lcwt. eases.
LOOK FOR THE BLUE LABEL.
Manufactured and refined in Australia by
F. H. FAULDING & CO.,
Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane
and London.
Deaf?
Without' good hearing you are greatly handi-
capped, and the fact is brought home to you
every day. Why remain deaf? The
10 Days’
FREE TRIAL
will safely and surely enable you to hear.
Over 330.000 delighted users, including the
Prime Minister, Mr. Hughes, who is using
his “Acoustieon” at the Peace Conference.
Write for 10 Days’ Free Trial. No deposit,
no obligation. Convince yourself at our
expense, and DON’T STAY DEAF ! New stocks
arrived.
Acoustieon
I jiintAn S t o r e 102 Dakingr House, SYDNEY
LraillAUU Service > Olderfleet, Collins St.,MELB
N.Z.: John Procter, 200 High St ., Christc'h..
JV.A.: 11. Little & Co., 851 Hay Street, Perth.
Sydney’s Hotel de Luxe.
Clifton Gardens
This beautifully-situated RESIDENTIAL
HOTEL is unique in the Southern Hemi-
sphere, being RIGHT ON THE HARBOR
FRONT, with its own secluded BEACH AND
GROUNDS and AMPHITHEATRE SWIM-
MING BATHS, the whole surrounded by
natural Bush.
25 Fine New Bedrooms have just
been erected, built over the water,
every room looking out to the Heads.
Daily service of Steamers, including Theatre
Boat, to and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular
Quay.
A Delightful Ferry Trip.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths.
Apply Manager,
CLIFTON GARDENS HOTEL,
Telephones: Y3OOl. MOSMAN, N.S.W.
Y 3002.
A HINT FOR MOTHERS.
HOW TO MAKE A TAR COUGH SYRUP
THAT CHILDREN LIKE.
Tar preparations usually taste so un-
pleasant that it is difficult to get children
to take them, and mothers who have experi-
enced this difficulty will be glad to learn that
one of the. cheapest as well as one of the
most effective cough syrups, and which is at
the same time ,so pleasant to take that chil-
dren ask for it, can be easily prepared at
home. Make a plain syrup by dissolving
half a pound of sugar in half a pint of hot
water, and to this add the contents of a 2oz.
bottle of bitrate of tar, which can be obtained
from . the chemist. Stir well, and when
cool it is ready for use. From one-half
to one teaspoonful every hour or two will
quickly relieve a most stubborn cough or
cold and avoid the danger, ever present in
children, of contracting lung trouble, in-
fluenza and pneumonia. For grown-up
people the dose may be doubled, and it will
be found particularly valuable in relieving
and preventing those catarrhal and bronchial
troubles which so frequently lead to more
serious complaints. For tickling in the
throat try putting a few drops of bitrate of
tar on a lump of sugar and slowly dissolve
in the mouth.— Advt.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Twenty-eight years ago—from March 2 to
April 9, 1891—the first National Austral-
asian Convention summoned by Parkes met
in Sydney and. discussed Federation. In all,
45 representatives attended; the 10 survi-
vors are Griffith and Thynne (Q.), Barton
and McMillan (N.S.W.), Deakin (Vic.),
Gockburn and Gordon (S.A.), Fysh and
Bird (Speck), and Boton (W.A.). Three
of the ten are now Judges.
John Sandes is
to leave for Lon-
don in a month or
so to represent
Sydney Tele-
graph there. He
is a first-rate man
for the job. When
in the days of the
Boer War the
Argus looked for
someone to send to
S’Africa and chose
Donald MacDon-
ald, Sandes was
so horribly disap
pointed that he
nearly lost his
punch. But, if it
slipped, it was soon
recovered, and in
Sydney he has done
quite as brilliant
work as he did as
“Oriel” in the old
Argus days.
A. B. SPEEDING,
one of
Melbourne's
front-rank
insurance men.
J. 11. Smith, whose death at 75 is reported
from London, was one of Adelaide’s best-
known citizens for a few years. S. Aus.
took a fancy in 1888 to remove the railways
from political influence and have them run
by three independent Commissioners. A. S.
Neill and John Hill (head of the coaching
firm) were appointed at £lOOO a year, and
Smith was imported from the Great West-
ern Co. (Eng.) at £2500 as chairman. He
proved to be a good man of business, and,
being a thorough sportsman as well, was
highly popular. But, after seven years, the
State went back to a single Commissioner
under Government control. Smith returned
to England soon afterwards, but several of
his family married and remained in Aus-
tralia.
In his last place at Newfoundland Gov.
Davidson (N.S.W.) got £2OBB a year.
In the corner of St. Paul’s Cathedral
grounds, where a more or less permanent
lounge for soldiers is to be built, Victoria’s
first white baby was born, Victoria’s first
doctor began to practise, and Victoria’s first
school was started.
“William John Digger” : General Sir Her-
bert Plumer, G.O.C. 2nd Army in France,
has a playful little habit, of blowing his long
white moustache out of his mouth as he
talks. One day he addressed us after a
fancy manoeuvre behind the lines. This
way: “Gentl’m’n (poof), I wish (poof,
poof) to tell you (poof) how pleased I was
(poof) with th’ manner (poof) in which
(poof) you handled your troops (poof,
poof) to-day. Conduct (poof) of men
(poof) exempl’y (poof).” As he spoke he
edged nearer and nearer to Smithers on the
extreme left of the semi-circle in which we
stood. Smithers stiffened to attention and
never blinked under the forced draught.
Suddenly Sir Herbert turned to the C. 0.:
“And I’m sure (poof) your Colonel (poof,
poof) agrees with me.”" The C.O. saluted
and thanked him for his inaudible address..
When he’d gone we gathered round Smithers
and asked what it was all aboiti. All
Smithers would say was “Poof! poof! !”
Major W. J. McKirdy, one-time command-
ing-officer of the now-defunct Vic. Scottish
Regiment, has done his last route-march at
52. His 6ft. 4in. of brawn made him an
imposing figure in his regimentals. A bit
beyond the* enlisting age, the tall Scot, as a
camp-commandant, did the State some ser-
vice by licking embryo Billjims into shape
Out of kilts, he was managing-clerk for a
firm of solicitors.
“Floater”: The Australian relatives of
the late Major Black, mentioned by “C.V.E.”
(B. 20/2/T9), possess only documentary
evidence of his distinctions. After he died
the whole decorative outfit disappeared, and,
despite every inquiry, not a ribbon has since
been traced. It is possible that some waster
has embezzled the medals and is living on
the borrowed glory.
The Coopers, of Norwood, are S. Aus.’s
record fighting family. Eight sons and a-
son-in-law have been on active service, and
five of the sons are still on the job. Two
have received their discharge, 'and one—of
the Light Horse —died of meningitis.
The illness which carried off A. L. D.
Fraser, of Moariland, brought him to Aus-
tralia two or three times for treatment by a
specialist. His first success in politics,
when he w y on the Napier seat from U. D. I).
McLean, was one of the surprises of the
1899 elections. Born at Kaiapoi, Canter-
bury, in 1862, Fraser went to Hawkes Bay
as headmaster of the Wairoa school. Then
he took up the study of Maori questions, and
was a native land-agent when he entered
Parliament, where he was regarded as a
very sound man on his special subject.
“Machete” : The late Mark Sykes, Orien-
talist and writer, belonged to the Sykeses of
Saltmarsh, a famous Yorkshire family
which combined country squiring with pri-
vate banking. Old Sir Tatton Sykes, who died
in the ’seventies, was a famous figure in the
racing world of his time. He never missed
a Leger for 50 years, and till he got to be
70 or so used to ride to Doncaster from
London to see the Yorkshire classic. He
wore the blue-tailed coat with brass buttons,
yellow cords and top boots of his youth till
he died at 90-odd. His son ran a famous
stud-farm, which included the flying La
Fleche, and his brother Christopher was
one of the three friends who pulled together
the shattered fortunes of Edward when that
fellow-sport was Prince of Wales. Mark
had the family love for a good horse and its
rider, and one of his last articles was a
glowing tribute to the Australian Jfight
Horse in Palestine.
Two old gentlemen of 75 or so, a clergy-
man and a layman, fighting with fists over a
point of doctrine —it’s a sight this generation
does not often see. But Adelaide has hopes.
Ex-Canon Poole, in defending the Ritualistic
practices of a suburban church, lately con-
demned by the Bishop, revived an English
joke of last century, that nothing is easier
than to write “No Popery” on a wall and
then run away. A newspaper correspondent
jumped in next day with : “It seems to me
that the rev. gentleman goes out of his way
to insult many good people. I think I am
as old a man as lie, and perhaps older; and
I would write ‘No Popery’ on his face, and
not run away.”
R.C. Bishop Gallagher, of Goulburn
(N.S.W.), has just had his “golden jubilee.”
He was ordained priest at Maynooth in 1869.
“Lawyer” : If it is a blot on Australia’s
honor for New Guinea blacks to be flogged,
what have you to say of Judge Armstrong’s
maiden effort as a judge when he ordered a
N. S. Wales youth to be flogged, and on
learning of the severity of the punishment
ordered it to be cut down by half? What
sort of a stain would that have been had the
Executive not wiped the fiendish sentence
out? No; bookworms don’t make good
judges—they get too far behind the times.
Armstrong has arrived 80 years too late.
Bagged a title the other day, J. J. Kinsey,
one of the best-known citizens of Christ-
church (M.L.). lie is in the shipping busi-
ness, with louseph Ward’s eldest son as a
partner; but that’s merely a side-line which
provides cash to enable him to do other
things. Years ago lie was a pioneer of the
sport of scrambling about on the roof of
Maoriland. He conquered the M.L. Alps
with an axe, a few yards of hemp and many
tons of energy. Then, when avoirdupois
became a handicap, he turned author and
fought all his glacial battles over again by
writing a book about them. His other hobby
is Antarctic expeditions. He was the busi-
ness man behind Shackleton and Scott,
which was the excuse for handing him the
bauble that he recently added to his collec-
tion of antiques.
Swinburne’s appointment as one of the
Vic. Electricity Commissioners was a sur-
prise. Until Lawson made the announce-
ment after the Cabinet meeting his name
had not been publicly mentioned. Before
becoming a member of the Inter-State Com-
mission (a post which he relinquished a few
weeks ago) Swinburne was closely associated
with the Metropolitan and other gas cos.
In deference to him the Hawthorn Town Hall
and the Swinburne Technical College were
lighted with gas long after other similar
establishments had adopted electricity.
McPherson must have convinced the Cabinet
I hat Swinburne has changed his spots. Pro-
fessor Lyle (Melb. Uni.) and McKinstry
(chief man in Australia for the British
Westmghouse concern) are the other two
commissioners. Eaclj will receive not more
than £5OO a year in fees.
G. DAVENPORT HOGGINS, M.H.A.,
barrister and solicitor and Dickens
exponent, Tasmania.
Colonel James Walker, appointed “Hous-
ing Commissioner under the War Service
Homes Act,” is a contractor, with 30 years’
experience of building in Queensland, inter-
rupted first by the S’African War and then
by the trouble with the Kaiser. He com-
manded the_2sth at Gallipoli. The new job
is worth £l5OO a year for seven years.
There’s a story told of just-dead J. H.
Smith, whom S. Aus. imported many years
ago to manage its railways. When at the
end of his seven years he was turned loose
he didn’t like it. Getting hold of a friend
in business he said he would put him on to
a good thing. “Get the right to advertise
on the railway water-tanks for 12 months,”
h«‘ said. Negotiations were opened up, and
the new source of revenue was grabbed. At
the end of 12 months the Government called
round for a renewal of the contract; but
there was nothing doing. Then the railways
started to figure what it would cost to paint
out the ads., and found that it would amount
to more than the Government had got. So
the ad. stayed there for years. Which was
just what Smith had expected.
“Bilbie”: Here’s icy courage* The 12-
year-old son of the station-master at
Trundle (N.S.W.), with two younger mem-
bers of the family, started on a railway tri-
cycle for a joy-ride. Nearing a culvert on
a down-grade, he saw stones on the line. lie
THE NUMEROUS REASON.
THE DIGGER: “Perhaps there were some
good reasons why he didn't enlist."
THE GIRL : “There were millions, but none
of them were any good. They were
mostly Germans."
put the brake on, but found it would not
stop the trike before reaching the obstacle;
so he jambed his leg in front of the cross-
bar and between the sleepers, stopping the
machine at the cost of a badly-shattered ankle.
Asked about it later, he said he knew his
leg would be hurt, but he didn’t want “the
kids” to be killed.
Still another kite is sent up on behalf of
A. B. Piddington, chairman of the Inter-
State Commission. This time it is suggested
that he may succeed Dr. Gilrutli at Darwin.
Why doesn’t some University appoint him
Professor of English Literature—in fact, he
would make an admirable lecturer in half a
dozen subjects—and get him settled? If it
doesn’t, some of these days he will fall into
a public job for which he is even less suited
than he is for his present one.
From an American correspondent:—
Signaller Tom Skeyhill has signed a contract with
the J. B. Pond and Affiliated Lyceum Bureaus for a
41 weeks’ tour of the U.S. and Canada. These are
the two biggest lecture circuits in America. Amongst
others under the same management are John Mase-
field, lan Hay, Robert Nichol and Foster Fraser.
The blind signaller has filled the biggest auditoriums
in the biggest American cities. He has on several
occasions taken the platform with ex-Presidents
Roosevelt and Taft; and President Wilson was at
one of his big meetings in New York. Roosevelt
took a great interest in him, and he was the only
Australian present at the ex-President’s simple
funeral. Tom’s plain wreath of laurels still lies on
the grave at Oyster Bay as a token of love and
gratitude for the big-hearted, red-blooded American.
The signaller intends to return to Australia as soon
as his contract expires, and, after a short holi-
day with his people, hopes then to proceed to Eng-
land, possibly to Oxford, to cultivate his love of
literature.
Dr. Robertson, chairman of the Vic.
Health Board, is about the last man in the
world to be disturbed by adverse criticism.
Sang-froid is his long suit. Association
with the inexpert and talkative gentlemen
who comprise the Board has made him toler-
ant, and veiled insinuations that he is not
the right man for the job fail to rouse him
to anger. A decisive Australian of perhaps
45, he has occasionally been delivered of
original ideas, t>ut they have generally been
smothered at birth by an unresponsive Gov-
ernment.
After an official life well crowded with
work, Stuart Murray, who must be close on
80, is resting from his labors at his home,
East Kyneton (Vic.). For 20-odd years he
was Chief Engineer of Water Supply; then
he became first Chairman of the Water-Com-
mission, holding the fort till Elwood Mead
arrived. Because of his thoroughness his
abrupt manner was overlooked. “I know
all about it,” he would tell you as you began
to_ explain a scheme, and as a rule he did.
Ministers envied him his direct style in writ-
ing minutes on official papers.
THE BOLSHEVIK GOVERNOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“Sir Walter Davidson,” a Sydney paper says, “has
demanded that his salary, at present £5OOO per
annum, should be increased by either £5OO or £6OO
per annum. Accompanying this it has also been
stated the Governor has demanded that there shall be
extensive renovations made to a number of the rooms
in Government House, and that the allowances
attaching to his position shall be substantially in-
creased.” One of these days we may have another
brand of Governor ; and then: —•
A livin’ wage is all I arsk,
A decent ’ome f’r wife an’ kids:
D’ye think a bloke should ’ave my tarsk
An’ draw five measly thousand quids ?
I’ll show ’em I’m no blanky slave:
I’ll Bolshie if they don’t be’ave!
, If Noo South tries me pay to dock,
They’ll find me puttin’ in the boot;
If I get narked, I’ll do me block
An’ tear me bonzer Windsor soot;
I’ll down me rooster-feathered ’at
An’ jine th’ proletariat.
I’ll pop me flamin’ gold-laced clo’cf,
To no bazaars shall they give tone;
An’ as f’r Agriculchral Shows—
Let ’Olman do ’em on ’is own!
I won’t waste my expensive togs
Inspectin’ poddy-calves an’ ’ogs.
The p’lice can lay foundation-stones,
An’ open workin’ bees, an’ fairs:
F’r speeches, these ’ere grammerfones
Will ’ave t’ do—fat lot I cares!
No banquets will I blither at—-
Let ’Olman spruik there, on ’is pat!
Then there’s me ’ouse—it needs repairs:
Th’ audjence-ehamber’s sprung a leak,
Th’ ballroom’s crook, an’ so’s th’ stairs,
The billiard-room’s old, bare, an’ bleak ;
The libr’y’s in a shockin’ state,
An’ me garage ain’t up t’ date.
W’en I lef’ ’Ome I wish I’d known
That they was goin’ t’ sweat me, ’ere.
Sweat me! I repersent th’ Throne,
George V.’ll ’ave t’ interfere!
All this repatriation skite
Is rot, until I’m fixed orrite.
N.S.W.
NORMAN CAMPBELL.


Q
O
O
issi
m
m
'STv
O
mmi
SR
EM
HI
m
r/ -■ '■n
r , i
- .■■■•■
m
*H
H
■ ■ ■
Sllll
u I
MZ
m
u
X
mm
m m
m
m
■
i ■ : |Sggg
WMm
: : : : .-.v. : ; : - : : : :-: : :;:.:-
mmm
mm
■
H
■si
■
■
> ♦’
■
11
■
■I
m n
fffpfffif
" : . . " ::
OD M
A GOOD JUDGE WILL USE
CLM H) pipes
y Pipe Q Uararite
055
8


LADIES!
s<on^
LAKSflfll
mm
You can give a little bit of heaven to this old world.
This great war has made you a greater factor.
It is the little things that count. They are your secret.
John
TOILET
WON
Strange w
inter’s
PREPARATIONS GIVE THE OPPORTUNITY.
SIX GOLD MEDALS—USED BY ROYALTY.
New Face Cream (for oily skins) : Pink, 4/-, White 3/6 per jar;
Fakshmi Cream (for dry skins), 3/9 per jar; Powder (Cream,
White Pink), 3/6; Scap. 3/6 box of 3 cakes; Dental Cream, 1/h;
Hair Poods: Oily, 3/9; Non-Oily, 4/9; Dry Shampoo, 3/9.
THE BE,ST THE WORLD HAS PRODUCED.
Obtainable at Farmer’s, The Civil Service, David Jones’, Anthony
Horderns’, W. T. Waters’, Fassetter’s, &c., &c., and all the leading
Chemists.
Send 3d. stamp for sample-of Powder (name the tint), or Soap, or
Dental Cream, or Face Cream, and Booklet, to John Strange
Winter (London, Paris, Rome), 32 Depot, 26-30 Jamieson Street,
Sydney; 218 Queen Street, Melbourne; Messrs. Taylor & Colledge,
Ltd., Charlotte Street, Brisbane; Kithers’ Building, William
Street, Adelaide.
\Aelton i an
fV \ HIGH-CLASS
{specialties
Creams
z r d
Pastes
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANG LTD.
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne.
E BROWN (§> SONS LONDON
AGENCIES • ALL. • OVER • THE • WORLD
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, » nd ’
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a I’orfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will coni pare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent, hot l
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Directo--
Society
MINCHINBURY
MUZZLED.
“Peter”: As I suggested in a recent
Bulletin, the anti-’flu vaccine employed
in Australia is not of English or American
origin, but was specially “discovered” here.
The serum is largely experimental, the Aus-
tralian people playing almost the same part
in the matter as the rat or the rabbit in
modern vivisection. Yet with all the thou-
sands of cases affording presumable evidence
of the vaccine’s power, medical science in
Victoria is almost as badly rattled as at
the beginning of the outbreak, and is still
striving for some conclusion that will restore
the confidence of the equally rattled public.
But all the feverish eagerness for unanimity
only makes the clamor more discordant.
Conscientious doctors, ranging from wild
idolaters to the rankest sceptics, naturally
refuse to be stifled on a subject so strongly
affecting their future standing with society,
and the result is a confused idea that (1)
inoculation is next to godliness and (2) is
also a stupendous fake. However, there
are a few faint gleams of daylight in the
murk. Dr. Lorrimer, of the Fairfield Hos-
pital, has made a particularly valuable con-
tribution to local knowledge. He states
that he has been unable “to detect any dif-
ference in the severity with which the
disease attacks inoculated and uninoculated
patients. The chief factor in the cause of
death is the delay that elapses before the
patients are admitted to hospital. In the
cases of the 29 patients who died at Fair-
field the average period that elapsed between
the time the person took ill and his or her
admission to hospital was seven days. On
the other hand, no patient who was admitted
within two days after infection developed
serious symptoms'.” The hysterical advo-
cates of the needle cannot produce a con-
clusion so stunning as that.
* * * *
“A.H.R.”: At an examination (simple
accountancy) held lately by the Federal
Taxation Department, one of the questions
was, “Explain what is meant by a secret
reserve.” One candidate answered : “Sup-
pose a man has two wives, one of them .is
his secret reserve.”
“Tarago”: The city pirates who prey on
Billjim can’t concede any points to some of
the up-country land-agents. One recently
had a returned man (an ex-dentist) on tour
trying to sell him a property under the
repatriation scheme. The block under
inspection was covered with a healthy
growth of bracken-fern. “Is this stuff any
good for cattle?” asked Billjim, indicating
the fern. “Any good for cattle!” exclaimed
the land-shark. “Why, man, it was
planted for cattle !”
“ J.T.M.”: At a big review in France the
battalion which in 1916 earned undying fame
by being the first to lose a Stokes mortar
was placed alongside a newly-arrived divi-
sion. The usual furtive chiack was in-
dulged in at the expense of the baby division,
when one of them countered by asking in as
loud a voice as he dared: “Any’ow, ’oo got
a receipt from the Kaiser for a Stokes
mortar?” This was such a sore point with
the veterans that it was usually followed by
fight; but fight being at the moment impos-
sible one veteran drawled to his mate in a
voice loud enough to be heard over the
Channel: “Cripes, Bill, this wireless tele-
graphy is a wonderful thing! Even these
blokes that was civvies twelve thousand
miles away ’eard about our stiff luck.”
“H. 0.”; A Fitzroy publican-
ess took a tip from Lola Mon-
tez, who, when a male boarded
a boat in Sydney Harbor to
serve a writ on her, rushed to
her cabin and stripped, inform-
ing the visitor of her state and
telling him he could come in if
he liked. Lola knew her man,
who dashed away with the writ
in his fist and a blush every-
where else. The Fitzroy lady
ran to her bedroom, locked her-
self in and informed the John
Hops that she was in bed. The
constables, caring nothing for
the sanctity of the home, went
to work like common Socialists
and burst open the door. Fif-
teen men were at first found in
my lady’s chamber. While the
Law was taking their names it
. heard a noise like a piece of
toast or something, and another
gent, was hauled from under
the bed. He was endeavoring
to give a perfectly reasonable
explanation when something slid
down the chimney. It re-
sembled a bag of coal in a dark
cellar, but on investigation
proved to be a seventeenth
visitor.
“Catkin”: The history that the Diggers
made in four years is now being written by
the Diggers themselves. It is happening in
scores of leaky billets wherever the x\.I.F.
is quartered. Partly to discover the where-
abouts of our mute but glorious Macaulays,
but mainly to supply the undiscovered Gib-
bons with something to do, the Corps Com-
mander is giving medals for the best narra-
tives on various periods of the war —about
18 periods altogether. There’s to be a bri-
gade prize, a divisional prize and a corps
prize for each period, with a corps medal for
the best of the lot. From the brigade narra-
tives a summary is to be made, and this is
FRACTURES.
MISS PLAINFACE (snuggling close): “Oh, Jack, I must tell you the terrible news.
Father's broke ”-
JACK (rising hurriedly): “I"-
MISS P. (in great agitation) : “ Don't leave me, darling. The doctor says
JACK ( fervently ): “Thank God! I thought it was financial!
to be handed to the competitors for the divi-
sional and corps prizes, since no man can be
expected to have much personal knowledge of
the little things that any other lot did. It’s
all very good, of course ; but essay-writing is'
hardly what we came to Europe for. *
“Billy T.”: He was an indifferent pugilist
when I first met him, but he reformed and
became a burglar. He is now a house, land
and estate agent. Burglary is not what it
used to be, he says. Dangerous. No, not
the police. Dogs and women. Dogs kept in
the house are worst. A cobber of his once
broke his way into a room where, he had
reason to believe £5OO in race winnings was
bestowed, when something came out of the
darkness and ate him. It was a silenced
dog. Dogs can be silenced b v some inter-
ference with the vocal cords. Burglars hate
them. But it was a woman drove my friend
out of the business. He was creenimr along
the hall, when a figure came out of the
shadow of a pair of curtains and hit him
out. When he recovered a large woman in
her nightie was standing over him, a candle-
stick in one hand, a lire shovel in the other.
“So,” she said, “you’re a burglar, then ! It s
a good thing for you you’re.not that worth-
less, drunken husband of mine.” #
At Fitzroy the other day three men were
up on a vag. charge, while the d. s weie tid-
ing to collect evidence to justify something
more serious. A sleuth stated that one of
the accused was arrested at a notorious sly-
grog shanty. Thereupon Fraser, J.P.: ‘I
am always hearing of the character of
houses mentioned in these cases. It they
are such as described, why are they allowed
to exist? I am sure their existence does
not reflect credit on the police.” Everybody
familiar with lower courts knows how glibly
the police mention the names and addresses
of the gambling dens, thieves’ kitchens, grog
shanties and brothels which alleged vagrants
are supposed to frequent, and it has long
been up to somebody to say what Fraser
said. It is as though the police knew the
whereabouts of a corpse with its throat cut,
but kept the knowledge to themselves for the
purpose of proving a charge of playing two-
up against somebody.
* * * *
Freda Sternberg, from Vancouver:—
Many former publicans are thinking of studying
for the medical profession; for the doctor alone
can now make dollars through liquor. 111-health
and a prescription can bring a bottle of Scotch
into the home; and if the ex-publicang can provide
the prescription they reckon their old customers
may be relied on to produce the ill-health. The
total cost of a prescription and a bottle is at
present about s6—say, 255. It doesn’t look as
alluring as the good old bar trading, but as a
second-best many a publican thinks of trying it.
Recently I was unfortunate enough to have ’flu
and fortunate enough to get a prescription. 1
thought my troubles were ended and went to the
local Government depot to gather up the Scotch.
Ironically, the depot is now what was once the bar
of a big hotel. It was ghastly as a tomb. The
empty shelves looked on reproachfully and ghosts
of the past gibed and jeered. When I arrived I
found close on a hundred healthy-looking mortals
all clutching prescriptions as though they were the
Crown jewels. For one hour I stood in a queue
until an official with a ruddy nose O.K.’d my
FOR HOME CONSUMPTION.
THE REVEREND : “I prepared a short service
for use during the epidemic. It teas
very gratifying how people took to it
for use in their homes.”
MR. BUNG: “Yes, same here. I never soil
so much bottled stuff since I’ve been in
the trade.”
treasure. Then I waited for another hour until it
was my turn to have the precious bottle handed
or.t. Jn some parts of Canada only the clergy
can help the liquor-desiring. So far I’ve not
discovered how they are to be approached.
(Continued on page 18.)
ESCH-SCHAM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
While sleep oppressed our aching eyes,
And dust obscured the dreary track,
We dawdled o’er a barren rise
With ration-mule and hotchkiss-pack.
Our zest was dead, the foe had fled,
Our hands lay limp, the reins hung slack.
Then 10, Damascus ! How we rode !
A leafy paradise she seemed,
Her ruddy domes and turrets glowed,
Her distant windows flashed and gleamed
We rode for her with steel and spur
While torrents laughed and gardens dreamed.
Along her gaudy streets we tramped
To taste her fruit and sup her wine;
Beneath her trees we drowsed and camped
And plucked the .clusters from her vine.
Ne’er such a queen had trooper seen
Throughout the land of Palestine!
But false proved she whose face seemed fair
When first her garments, misty green,
Allayed our travel-wrought despair,
And beckoned us with gallant mien:
Beneath her dress we witnessed stress
And vowed her body was unclean.
What time we watched her scowl and grieve,
A d flash her charms with sportive guile,
We longed to rise and take our leave,
To trek and conquer mile by mile.
“Stay,” whispered fate, as many a mate
. Went down before her sweetest smile.
Her wanton breath was fever fired,
E’en though it sang among the trees—
All, many a comrade’s soul was choired
To Heaven by that malignant breeze,
She wrought in spite by day and night
To lave new victims with disease.
We slunk from her like beaten men,
With wet, unseeing eyes, until
Her gardens lay behind, and then
With healing heart and growing will
We swept away at close of day
Across a stony, treeless hill.
SYftlA,
GRRARDY.


Sfte Chandler Six
By reason of its PRONOUNCED QUALITY is recognised in every market of the world as a
LEADER in the HIGH-GRADE CLASS. NO CAR SOLD gives MORE SATISFACTION.
■
■
' 1
■
vt
il
«-V/
i
j
■
a
> I i
I!
ft
M
■
i a
i/
m ■
i;:
\* ' *« -»
■
54
Hi
■
■
n»*
•*
mwmm
''
%*'''< ?■
11* ■
;
The Chandler Motor Co., during six vears of INTELLIGENT and
CONSCIENTIOUS MANUFACTURING in a MAGNIFICENTLY
EQUIPPED factory, BACKED by AMPLE FINANCIAL RESOURCES,
has SPECIALISED and CONCENTRATED upon the production of ONE
MODEL ONLY , viz., a high-grade, six-cylinder car.
Think what this means : The brainy specialist in every walk of life attains
success; so it is with the production of the Chandler.
YOU ARE ASSURED BEYOND QUESTION that, in purchasing a
CHANDLER, THE CAR IS too PER CENT. SATISFACTORY—other-
wise the manufacturer would be compelled to change the model.
Specialisation not only GUARANTEES SATISFACTORY SERVICE
—it ensures THE UTMOST VALUE FOR MONEY: it leaves the manufacturer
free to correct faults which are apparent only after years of service in the hands of
owners and to introduce IMPROVEMENTS and REFINEMENTS as
EXPERIENCE DICTATES. - .
The engine is silent, flexible and powerful. The electric starting and lighting
equipment is dependable. The springing—combined with the elegant high-grade body
work —ensures the UTMOST COMFORT overall classes of roads. The H.T.
magneto ignition gives FREEDOM FROM ELECTRICAL TROUBLE.
o o o
The Chandler is a car of LUXURY and REFINEMENT. It appeals to
the connoisseur. All parts are very accessible.
it is so simplified that it requires the minimum amount
of personal attention to keep it in good order.
We shall be glad to demonstrate these facts to vou at any time.
Catalogues mailed with pleasure. Ring City 8862 or 2567 and make your booking. Three shipments of
this great car are on the water to our agency. Book your order so as to .‘secure your car IMMEDIATELY on arrival.
MARCUS CLARK & CO. LTD.
Garage and Showrooms : 147-53 &. 162 CastlereagTi Street, Sydney.


IN THESE SERIOUS EPIDEMIC DAYS
Get CLEMENTS TONIC for your Blood
Pure Blood means less risk of infection and greater powers of resistance to epidemic attacks.
The purer the blood the stronger the body. Epidemic disease thrives on the debilitated system.
These are anxious days for Australia, when it behoves all persons to take every care of themselves and ward off to their greatest
effort the menace to health that threatens them. No one can afford to take any undue risk, and the person who has the best condi-
tion of health and the greatest powers of resistance to any invading force, whether it is epidemic disease, privation, oppressive
climatic conditions, worries, or minor illness, is best fortified against it. It is the old story in a new way of the soldier well armed;
he is shielded from attack of destructive and destroying forces.
Clements Tonic, which, for a quarter of a century, has been admitted a medicine of rare health value in keepino the nerves sound
and the blood cool and pure, should now be used as a means to fortify the body and the general health. It tones up the stomach
well, has a palliative effect on the bowels, stimulates the liver and kidneys, and imparts a healthy influence. Clements Tonic is
largely a blood and nerve medicine, and should be a part of the medical equipment of every home at the present time.
Get it from your Chemist To-day. Use it as the Pure Blood Remedy.
Clements Tonic Ltd.. Rozelle, N.S.W.
The Bishop of Adelaide has decided at last
to be the dragon and tackle St. George at
Goodwood. St. George will call a clergy-
man “a priest,” or “Father,” and the com-
munion service “mass,” and in general per-
form ceremonies which make some other
flocks frantic. Canon Wise, his guardian,
has many a time been asked why lie does
not go over to Rome; to which he answers
that he has no wish to, and is a perfectly
sound Anglican. Bishop Thomas has now
published a formal admonition :
This service, ns set forth in your “Mass book,”
seems to me absolutely to contravene vour promise
to use the form contained in the prayer-book, and
no other Your book follows Roman Catholic de-
votional books closely throughout in its services,
its methods and its teaching. ... Your Holy Mass....
most closely resembles from beginning to end the
Roman Ordinary of the Mass On page 14 the
SAVED FOR A BETTER FATE.
“There y’are, Percy; ain’t ye glad note I
never let none of them Tommy girls
marry ye?”
doctrine of Transubstantiation appears to be clearly
taught....lt is quite incomprehensible to me how
you can reconcile your action and teaching with
the teaching and the spirit of the Church of England.
Canon Wise, as was expected, replied with
a “respectful” refusal to withdraw the Mass
book or alter the services. The surprise is
that a number of other clergymen, not speci-
ally -“high” themselves, have rushed in to
THE PICK OF THE MENU.
BILL: “Hullo , Jim, married yet?”
JIM : “No. Still living d la carte.”
blame the Bishop for interfering. They
urged two main grounds : that the Anglican
Church is just now making a special effort
towards unity with other churches, and can-
not afford to have a formal split in its own
ranks; and that, at a time when blank indif-
ference is the main danger to religion, a
parson who somehow makes his flock really
enthusiastic should not have liis methods
sniffed at.
* * * *
“Mack”: The Digger didn’t learn his
audacious habit of bluffing the Tommy ; he
was born with it and carried it in
his Saratoga. Right at the start of
things, during the Turks’ attack on
the Suez Canal in February, 1915,
Ismailia was placed out of bounds to
all troops not actually on duty in the
town. A party of Diggers from the
Bth Battalion decided to risk it, and
rowed across the canal in a fishing-
boat. On their return
to where they had left
the boat they found it
had been taken. Then
a corporal had an in-
spiration. He formed
the party up and
marched them along
towards the ferry. After
proceeding for a half-
mile or so, they met a
Tommy picket in charge
of a sergeant. Our cor-
poral called out, “Party,
halt! Advance one and
give the password.”
The picket halted and
the sergeant advanced
to our corporal and
breathed into his ear
“Tewfik.” The rest was
easy. The Diggers
marched on to the ferry,
where they were halted
by the sentry, and asked
for the password.
“Tewfik.” said the cor-
poral. “Pass,” said the
sentry. They passed.
‘ I “F.A.It.”: Loyal to Australia? I should
say they are ! Among themselves they’re
full of grouches about their treatment; but
put them among strangers and you’ll hear a
different story. I came across the Atlantic
in a stinking Canadian transport, and every
Canuck was disgusted with the way he was
treated compared with the way Australia
treated its Diggers. They’d got it from the
Diggers themselves. I found that the
Aussies had lied magnificently.
“Personnel”: Here is another aspect of
what The Bulletin justly calls a rotten old
system. The Digger on being arrested by a
G.M.P. is brought before an officer and
charged. This officer (1) recommends him
to the District Commandant for a court-
martial and (2) prosecutes him when he duly
stands his trial. The same officer is the
legal luminary of the Barracks—the advisor
on all legal questions to the District Com-
mandant and of the members of the court-
martial. He is, furthermore, in constant
touch with all of them before and even
during the trial. An acquittal before a
D.C.M. is practically unknown. How could
it be otherwise in the circumstances?
“Naval Billjim’’ sends a Christmas growl:
The Sydney, accompanied by the Second Light
Cruiser Squadron, lately steamed to Invergordon, a
small fishing village in the north.of Scotland, to give
rest and recreation leave to the men. We were delighted
until just as were leaving the ship we were told
that our grateful country had put picture-shows,
theatres, pubs and any restaurants where liquor was
sold out of bounds. What hurt was that everything
was open to the Tommies and the American sailors.
Is it done deliberately, this persistent blackening of
the character of the Australian? Or is it merely
that the care of Australia’s fighting men of both
services has been left to their saintliest maiden
aunts ?
# * * *
“ J.T.M.’’: Even in the midst of war the
French are thrifty. Our brigade was in re-
serve near a village which during the first
battle of the Somme had been bat-
tered out of recognition. The shiv-
ering Diggers—it was midwinter-
supplemented the microscopic fuel
issue, with smashed and rain-soaked
timber pulled from the ruins. By
means of the fires thus made they
smoke-dried themselves at night
and kept off frostbite. A little
later a French assessor arrived,
and on behalf of the Government
estimated the worth of these tim-
ber fragments at 3000 francs. Our
canteen funds had to suffer.
* *• *
When the ’flu scare was at its
worst in Melbourne, two msn,
employees of a large firm, were
taken ill on the premises, and
hastily removed under the impres-
sion that the plague had got them.
Fifteen minutes later a large,
determined deputation waited upon
the management, demanding more
fum i g a tion. The management
pointed out that the establishment
had been sprayed, flushed and fumi-
gated already, but the workers were
not satisfied, and insisted on more.
While the argument was raging
there came a ring from the hospi-
tal. It was the medical authority
intimating that the two men just
admitted did not have influenza,
but were sufferings from the effects
of excessive fumigation.
“Smike” : The business of suppressing the
flu germ in Victoria is directed bv the ghost
of the late W. S. Gilbert. Take the case
of the S. Australians who were marooned oy
their own Government in the 1 ic. capital.
After much argument South Oss agreed ,o
the return of its citizens on condition that
they submitted to two medical exams at an
interval of three days before boarding the
train for home. Peake’s people rolled up to
be searched for ’flu, but in two cases-; and
there were probably more —they were simply
handed yellow papers which three days later
they exchanged for pink ones without any
medical exam, whatever. Armed with the
piriks, they were free to depart, and the.i
duly mingled with a horde of other travellers
at Spencer-street station, picking up all the
’flu germs’that were feeling homeless. About
this stage official interest in their existence
became suddenly alive. Those who had
found their seats were locked in their com-
partments on the (piaint assumption that
they were now officially “clean” and might
collect, a temperature if they were allowed
further liberty. All appeals for five minutes’
freedom to say good-bye to friends waiting
at the barrier were dismissed with the wail
that for a small selfish sentiment they were
willing to endanger the lives of a whole com-
munity ! Naturally the S. Australians
returned home feeling that Vic. is a wonder-
ful place.
* * # *
From the medical side: —
“0.L.” (B. 20/2/’l9) advocates the formation of a
tribunal to inquire into every death that happens.
lie does not say medical tribunal; but must mean
it, as I came upon the phraseology used by him
in an identically similar proposal submitted by a
Melbourne doctor, in a letter to the editor of the
official organ of the B.M.A. Unfortunately,* the
proposal was taken seriously by .the editor of the
Muihcal Journal op Australia, and a long leading
article was devoted to it. But the phrase “0.L.”
uses, i.e.j “criminally-neglectful riff-raff of the pro-
fession,” was considerably toned down in the B.M.A.
mouthpiece, and for a very good reason. Medical
readers, though easy-going, would have deeply re-
sented it. What business have the various State
Medical Boards to register “criminal riff-raff”? But,
apart from that, can any sane person imagine a
medical tribunal hauling poor old Granny over the
coals for giving a drop of turps on her own, instead
of the drug ordered by the medical attendant,
or for putting on a pneumonic chest her favorite
onion poultice flavored with a few dops of “karo-
sene,” instead of the professionally-ordered prepara-
tion? Is the sleep-doped nurse to be dragged up
for sentence for failing to take the patient's tem-
perature, pulse and respiration every hour “during
a critical period,” whatever that may mean ? Under
such a Bolshevik system it would be unsafe to
practise medicine at all, and the patient would die
without medical or nursing attention. Even Granny
would fly from the sickroom.
“T.W.S.” (from Belgium) : Enclosed in a
parcel from Aussie received by one of my
mates was the programme of a “Civic Ser-
vice,” in Prahran (Vic.), on August 4,
1918. On the last page I notice this fana-
tical and slanderous statement:
At least 50 per cent, of the A.I.F. has contracted
venereal disease through impurity or contact.
The statement is ridiculously untrue. But
that doesn’t lessen the indignation of the
thousands of clean-living soldiers ; nor would
it lessen the anxiety of thousands of wives
and mothers. Next time an Australian
army goes abroad I hope it leaves a rear-
guard to protect it from its “friends.”
THE ETERNAL FEMININE.
A large shark was seen near the ladies’ baths.
—Frequent news item.
LITTLE WILLIE SHARK : “ Puppa, if you don’t
come away from that fat hussy at once
I’ll tell ma!”
UNMASKED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“The removal of the mask takes away the deep
Oriental mystery of a woman’s eyes.”
The disinfectant smell the microbe chases,
And from the spout the thunder-moisture drips;
The masks have fallen from the dimpled faces
And I, in new-born joy, can see the lips—
In fact, I see the whole bright face of Flo
Crinkling to laughter that 1 used to know.
The mystery of eyes, deep set and clouded,
Explains itself as one might well suppose.
Mabel, while half her face was swathed and
shrouded,
Could scarce endure the tickling of her nose.
Now she is free, by morning, noon and night
Those eyes are simply wells of shining light.
It might be mystic, dark and Oriental
That look I had on Friday afternoon.
Glad eyes, some hold, are merely elemental,
As uncontrolled as kisses ’neath the moon.
I cannot tell. But fancy is not led
By any mere top section of the head.
Howe’er the local hospitals are filling,
Howe’er the microbes clamor from the south,
Despite the velvet lashes and their thrilling,
To love a girl I needs must lcve her mouth.
Her lips alone can really strike the key
Of all the music of young joy to be.
Masks off! Phew! How we languished in the
swelter!
Now all is well on such a night as this.
The influenza! Take my arms for shelter
And try the sweet infection .of a kiss.
Beneath the white star quarantine we ask
Only a twist of laughter for a mask.
N.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


Supplies of the Wonderful
S. D. Warren Standard Printing Papers
Have now arrived at the three Australian Depots—
-168 Clarence Street, Sydney
132-4 Charlotte Street, Brisbane
552 Collins Street, Melbourne.
M
ANY of the leading pi inters, from Cairns to Perth, seized the opportunity when
these papeis weie fust introduced to the market to place indents for their
m
STANDARD
PriniindPap
requirements in standard
sizes and weights, and
during the past few months
the stocks thus obtained have
gradually been absorbed, so
that many users of paper have
already had practical experi-
ence of the quality of
Warren’s Standards.
For instance, in one Aus-
tralian city every cata=
logue but one issued in
connection with the usual
season’s offerings was printed
on one or other of Warren’s
papers.
Much general work, however, which, had supplies been available, would have been printed on Warren’s papers had
P e lr 01 *r e to . mi ssed, because full stocks had not arrived. Well, such stocks are now here, although, of course it is
difficult to immediately gather together a representative selection of so wide a range. Nevertheless we think that
most inquiries can now be satisfied.
The principal lines are :
Warren’s Cumberland M.F. Printing
Warren’s Cumberland kSupercalender
Warren’s Cumberland Coated Art
The Specialties are :- '
Warrentown and Lustra Art Papers
Printone Imitation Art
Library Text (Special M.F.)
Warren’s *SilKote Dull Art
Warren’s Olde Style (Antique Finish)
Cameo Plate Coated, Covers and Postcard boards
(Sepia and Ivory Tints).
&/, A £ en,s- B. J BALL LTD.,
168 Clarence Street, Sydney; 132-4 Charlotte Street, Brisbane; 552 Collins Street, Melbourne.


THE
-r \ON A L Qjh
. It!
.. jC
&&&
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
With which is amalgamated the Colonial Bank of Australasia Limited.
HEAD OFFICE: Collins Street. Melbourne. ESTABLISHED
1858.
Authorised Capital
Capital paid up
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability of
Proprietors
..£5
£1,945,300
1,040.000
£2,985,300
796.608
£3,781,908
Directors : —SIR JOHN GRICE, Chairman.
EDWARD TRENCHARD, Esq., Vice-Chairman.
J. NEWMAN BARKER, Esq.
Hon. P. G. CLARKE, M.L.C.
BOWES KELLY, Esq. H. M. STKACHAN, Esq.
Chief-M anager ; E. 11. WREFORD.
Deputy Chief Manager: JAMES WILSON.
Svdnev Office 60 Pitt St. Manager: U. S. GREGSON. Accountant: E. J. OSBORNE.
3 ' George’ St. City Office, 350 George St. Manager: J. A. E. HADLEY.
Branches in Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia, New South Wales.
LONDON OFFICE; 5 Bishopsgate, E.C.
SPANISH INFLUENZA.
The best precautionary measure advised by Australia’s leading medical
men is an antiseptic condition of NOSE AND THROAT,
EVERYONE IS RECOMMENDED TO CARRY A BOX OP
NAZETHA PASTILLES
THE VERY BEST NOSE AND THROAT ANTISEPTIC.
By their use the curative fumes are searchingly carried to all the breath-
ing passages.
1/6
OBTAINABLE ONLY FROM ALL CHEMISTS
1/6
A. P. MILIvE-R &, SON, Chemists, Hobart.
POLITICAL
POINTS
N. S. Wales Agent-General Wade is
returning. Both he and his wife dislike the
English climate. He thinks he will be much
more comfortable on the Supreme Court
bench.
Watt, at the opening of the Yarra Falls
Spinning Mills : —•
At this moment a tariff is, perhaps, not neces-
sary, but as soon as normal conditions of shipping
are restored it will become a burning question.
That’s it—don’t get an umbrella till it rains.
Let the importing gentlemen get in and
establish their vested interests and make the
building of a real tariff so difficult that it
won’t be done at all.
Wilson sticks to the policy of keeping
Germany strong as a counterpoise to Britain.
It is noAV stated that his nominees at the
Peace Conference object strongly to the
idea that the Hun should be prohibited
from fortifying the Kiel Canal. If Germany
is left with its old monopoly of the Canal it
has the better of the two narrow entrances
to the Baltic all to itself and the run of the
other the same as anybody else, and it will
still have a big future on the sea —big
MIGHT HAVE BEEN WORSE.
SERGEANT: “What do you think the Old Man,
said when he saw Frits’s barbed-wire
first time?”
PRIVATE: “No; trot?”
SERGEANT : “He sez, 'Thank Gord it ain’t
red tape, anyway!"'
enough to keep J. Bull busy thinking. Fur-
ther, the Kiel Canal question may furnish
a precedent some day for fortifying the
Panama Canal —a Avaterway which the
United States paid for and partly con-
structed, Avliieh is held by TJ.S. troops, and
which runs, like the Kiel Canal, througii
territory acquired from a Aveak foreign State.
In his attitude over the Kiel business the
pacifist soavs the seed of a \ r ery big precedent
ai very small cost.
“The American Peace Commission objects
to the imposition of Avar costs on Germany
because of the fear that it Avill drive Ger-
many to Bolshevism.” This is a thing the
American Peace Commission might well be
silent about. There is little hope of screw-
ing more out of Germany in this lifetime
than the price of material damage done, and
Serbia, Montenegro, Poland, Roumania,
Italy, France and Belgium Avill collect 95
per cent, of that, while Britain’s bill for lost
ships Avill absorb the rest. The- U.S. has
practically nothing coming to it, so it isn’t
interested.
In a report to his Government U.S. Con-
sul Brittain says that the deep gulf Avhich
is fixed between employers and their em-
plovees is among the things that hit him
hardest in Australia. The consul is right;
and the gulf will have to be bridged before
we can make much progress. Even in
Britain they are doing it; only last week it
Avas cabled from London that the Colliery
Owners’ Association had adopted a scheme
for joint councils of owners and workmen to
manage certain mines, thus enabling the men
to study the question of working costs. At
least two-thirds of the industrial troubles
that worry Australia spring from misappre-
hensions that could easily be removed.
The liquor boycott which has made Dar-
win sober and wrecked the Government pub
profits isn’t a temperance movement. Like
the mobbing of Administrator Gilruth and
the refusal to pay taxes, it is part of a pro-
test against Federal management in general.
As a further protest, the staff at one of the
Darwin hotels Avas “called out,” and as this
seemed the beginning of a general closure
the Government decided to lock up all three
caravanserais. Probably the simplest solu-
tion of the problem is to give the Territory
a white-man Government of its own, and
let it have the railway, the lands, the hotels
and the harbor works free of debt to start
with. The place couldn’t, of course, expect
full membership in the Australian Parlia-
ment till the white population increased to,
perhaps, 100,000, and it became a full-blown
State. In similar circumstances, the United
States used to give a Territory’s elected
Federal representatives the right to speak,
but not to vote.
Melbourne City Council has found out
something. Henry Weedon’s inquiry com-
mittee, appointed last March to nose around,
woke up to the fact that the State and
Commonwealth Governments own consider-
able property in Melbourne, and none of it
is rated, while in Sydney the N. S. Wales
Government pays £20,000 annually to the
Council in lieu of rates. Melbourne Council
thinks it smells at least £BO,OOO.
Richard Butler, the disheartened-looking
man who carries the bag in S. Aus., says
that owing to increased wages to State
employees, loss of railway revenue, ’flu, etc.,
a deficit is inevitable this year. The same
thing was barely averted last year, but it
happened in 1917 and in 1916 and in 1915
and in 1910 and in 1909 and in 1908 and
at other times. So S.A.’s deficit is taken as
read.
“R.J.S.”: Billjim saw an ad. recently
inviting applications for the position of
bookkeeper. applicants to be returned
soldiers. That looked patriotic. On apply-
ing for the job the Digger was told the
salary would be 30s. a week.
He ventured a few remarks
about the excessive liberal-
ity of the wage, and was
met with: “But you have
your pension, haven’t you?”
I know the position is diffi-
cult. There are men who
are not up to standard by
reason of war illness or in-
jury ; and that is why they
are paid pensions. But it
is equally certain that some
employers Avill seek to get a
whole-man’s service from
pensioners. In other words,
they will try to get the State
to pay part of their wages
bill. The pensioner can’t
always expect full wages.
But it ought to be one of
the prime duties of the
R.S.A. to see that nobody
takes unfair advantage of a pension to get
full labor at reduced rates. For that is
equivalent to the State paying the pension
to the employer whose skin is whole and not
to the workman who was knocked out in the
fight.
Australia had better keep its eye open for
returned Germans. This naner has very
good reason to believe that Huns aa’lio got
away from this country just before the
war, and did military service against us
during the war, are either already back in
Australia or on the way here.
Note the great concern of President Wil-
son not to ask Germany for anything that
“might drive it to Bolshevism.” You see, if
the Hun land goes in for Bolshevism it Avill
be disqualified for membership in the League
of Nations, and Wilson Avon’t get its vote
for the Presidency.
In Adelaide an industry Avhich has been
struggling for 20 years is likely to be
knocked out. In 1898 the late A. M. Simp-
son, Avho had previously introduced half a
dozen other industries to
Australia, attempted the
manufacture of enamelled
hollow-ware. He imported
machinery from America
and Europe, with skilled
artisans, and after an aver-
age loss of £lOOO annually
—according to the evidence
given before the Inter-State
Commission in 1914 —it had
been decided to close the
works in despair of getting
protection from the Hun.
The Avar, however, by stop-
ping Hun imports, gave a
temporary protection under
which tiie business recov-
ered ; but iioav during the
last feAV months another
factor has crept into the
market —Asia has become a
producer of European cook-
ing utensils, and already the hardware shops
of Australia are being flooded with the
cheap-labor product.
Another N. S. Wales head-bobby retired a
day or tA\:o ago; and the Chief Robert of all
referred to the great loss the force was going
to sustain. It was a typical case : the ex-
ceedingly competent officer had become a
sub-inspector after nearly 80 years’ service
and a superintendent a few months prior to
his retirement. The army doesn’t do that
sort of thing nowadays; but it is still the
curse of the police service. If a man with
brains and energy became a superintendent
Avithin 10 years the whole force would ex-
pire. As a natural consequence it doesn’t
get brains except by accident.
THE RIVALS.
HIS MAJESTY'S SNAIL: “Here — what’s your
hurry?”
“F.C.” :* What’s all this Wilson talk about
a League of Nations, universal peace and
brotherhood? America has placed an em-
bargo on wheat from Australia and other
countries “because of the prevalence of smut
and other grain diseases.” Those who
handled the wheat we imported from
America in Y 5 will remember how full of
purity it was, and tvon’t for a moment sup-
pose that the embargo has anything to do
with America having guaranteed her farmers
an unnecessarily high price for this and next
year’s crops.
It won’t be the profiteer’s fault if this
country isn’t swept by Bolshevism. Recently
the Beech Forest district of Victoria was
pretty well burned out. Scores of settlers
lost all they had ; others had to sell the few
head of stock they had saved because there
was nothing but ashes for them to eat. A
few others, better placed, looked at then-
blackened paddocks and then wired to Mel-
bourne for grass-seed. But the profiteer
was up betimes that morning, the market
was cornfered, and the half-ruined battlers
were asked exorbitant rates. Fortunately
the Government held an unusually large
stock, just about enough to go round. It
Avas almost a pity it did, because the spec-
tacle of soulless grabbers making money out
of the misfortunes of fire-stricken settlers
might forced the CommoiiAvealth Gov-
ernment to commandeer all stocks and pay
the owners much as it paid rabbit-trappers
for their goods— i.e., Avhat it thought fit.
One sudden, drastic action of that sort
would put an end to a lot of the profiteer-
ing that is still going on.
THE SUFFERING KAISER.
“The Allies would make a mistake if they extra-
dited and tried the Kaiser. His present punishment
is as cruel as his worst enemy could desire.”
—Maximilian Harden.
FIRST GENT OF THE BEDCHAMBER: “ Suffer ,
Hans! I should dink so! Somedimes
he almosd! forgets to drink his lager!"
Dear Bulletin,— Last night I dreamed
that Archbishop Mannix and Archb.shop
Kelly were joint Prime Ministers. The
people had voted that hard-shell Methodism
should be the endowed religion of the State.
Whereupon the two archbishops decided to
go on with the job, partly for the sake of
their salaries and partly to prevent some
Methodist person getting the contract and
carrying it out in real earnest. Then I
leaped two feet and woke up and found it
was all a mistake. The real fact is that two
incurable Freetraders, Hughes and Cook,
are going to look after the establishment of
a Protectionist tariff, partly for their
salaries’ sake and partly to prevent a genu-
ine Protectionist Government getting to
work and making the tariff a live thing
instead of a botch. —Yours, etc., Henry
Horsecollak.
Randolph Bedford returns to his muttons:
Again the price of meat. This time “Eff Bee”
says he lives in Mackay and pays these prices: Beef-
steak-, lOd.; rump steak, lid. ; fillet, Is. 2d. ; rib
roast, Bd. ; mutton (other than chops), 14d.; all
round, Is.” These are the prices of private butcher-
ing concerns, not the prices of State shops. At
these shops cost prices have been cut practically in
halves. But of course State stations and State
shops are so horrible that the Government’s pro-
jected extension of them, to cover, say, half the
population of Queensland, will be even worse than
fillet at Is. 2d. Another correspondent (B.
20/2/T9) asks if I will explain how Ryan gets
record prices, and yet keeps prices down. He is
answered in my reply to “J.A.” (B. 27/2/’l9), and
the reply is that he doesn’t. The entries of State
cattle into the stock market pulls down the price
to the butchers every time the auctioneers try to
rig it.
The whining Hun is at it again:—■
The Berlin correspondent of the Chicago News
has interviewed Dr. Magnus Hirschfeld, a leading
German psyciatrist, who states that tuberculosis in
Germany is beyond control, and German manhood
is doomed to degeneracy. There is a danger that
illegitimacy and disease will reduce Germany to a
decadent and pestilential waste.
In fact, the Hun wants the Allies to take up
a subscription for him. Yet his womenkind
escaped the dreadful disease which fell on the
women of the occupied countries through
being made the playthings of Hun soldiers.
And they lay soft and warm at home cheered
by consignments of plunder while the Serbian
women and children were acquiring tuber-’
culosis on their fearful winter pilgrimage over
the mountain roads as they fled from the
spike-helmeted wrath behind them. Further-
more, if illegitimacy is liable to make Hunland
a pestilential waste it must be faii’ly pestilen-
tial all the time. Before the Avar the birth-
rate of ill-regulated infants in Germany was
over three times and in Austria five times the
English average, and England has more than
twice as bad a record as Ireland.
Annoying people who write letters to the
Age about joy-rides in Commonwealth
motor-cars will not find it so easy in future;
to collect data. The old distinguishing plate;
which bore the letters “C.A.” and a number-
has been replaced by ordinary registration
figures. On the other hand, the Business
Board at the Defence Department has just
thought it well to label military motor-cars
with the letters “D.D.” a foot high and a
broad arrow. Apparently there is no Busi-
ness Board at the other Departments.
THE AWAKENING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“The intention seems to be to burn into the German
mind the truth that , guns failed them.” — Cable.
Theirs was the rending force to split the world,
A steel-edged tempest of tumultuous fire.
Doldly they marched with murder’s flag unfurled
AA’ith nought between their strength and their
desire
But the cold writings of a feeble pen,
And a poor bulwark of the thoughts of men.
They rose in thunder. At their marching tread
The lands were shaken to a storm of tears.
Wild women wept tl.eir vain, heroic dead,
And all the trembling night was full of fears.
From east to west the shuddering message ran:
“Behold the steel and fire are more than Man!”
Whence are these armies rushing to the fray ?
What ships, deep-freighted, borne from every
coast ?
Trained, disciplined, the legions take their way
To meet the Teuton and to break his boast.
Lo, these are the embodied thoughts of men,
The truth that lay behind the weakling pen!
Wear’s vast, two-headed hammer smote and smote,
Beneath its blows the whole creation groaned ;
Till all the lands of earth could mark and note
How blood for blood on stricken fields atoned.
A thousand battles lost, a thousand won
Marked manhood’s pride the equal of his gun.
Last came the breaking line, the sudden light,
The boast hurled backward in the boaster’s teeth ;
The Teuton turned despairing from the fight,
His sword-hand empty as his clanking sheath.
Smashed in the scorn of things he saw with shame
Plain manhood victor in his own red game.
N.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


5S5®!
®S
»<■*
?W
4^
9 ti 6/0
9
&E-
-m
■
■
iUwt
■
few
bSkSh
..
& '■«
m
a-sw®s
ttiiitt
SiSSS" /SSffi
•.. ' ' V U
! v?v>V
IjFSW'WV
ifisSvAsta
■/:•■•.: :v/y;>
'
IV-J
Sf*>
S 8
88
W'-v-*ssr% : Sl: : ;:'
Wy
x>*
S 3&
gss
fcSS-
•O
/•.• *
•••v.
hinHiiiiiiiiiiMMiiiminiiiiiiiiriTimTng
imnrrt
AFTER
much experimenting by acoustic scientists, this highly-improved tone chamber
illustrated was designed, embodying a system of tensionised wood and metal resonators,
from which the tone produced is unapproached for volume, clearness and naturalness
in both vocal and instrumental music. YU this is but one of the many magnificent exclusive
features that j ustifie s public preference for the
ilk n •
Aeolian
Vocation
Accept this invi ation to visit us and hear this perfect entertainer,
models of which range from £9.
4
+
u
mil
••
h
r
□
384 George St, Sydney,
And at 252 Collins St.,
Melbourne;
436 Queen St.,Brisbane;
58 Bundle St, Adelaide
7Uo
Pianola
SEND IN THIS COUPON,
and you will be posted gratis an interesting Catalog,
giving full particulars ■-•id price, and explaining the easy
terms of purchasing an Aeolian Vocation.
■ - ■ ' . (• ’
Name
Address *


THE FOLLY OF TAKING DIGESTIVE
PILLS.
A WARNING TO DYSPEPTICS.
The habit of taking digestive pills after
meals makes chronic dyspeptics of many
thousands of men and women, because arti-
ficial digestants, drugs and medicines have
practically no influence upon the excessively
acid condition of the stomach contents
which alone is the cause of most forms of
indigestion and dyspepsia. The after-dinner
pill merely lessens the sensitiveness of the
stomach nerves, and thus gives a false sense
of freedom from pain, whereas if those who
are subject to flatulence, heartburn, wind,
etc., were to obtain a little bisurated mag-
nesia from the chemist and take half a tea-
spoonful in a little water after meals, there
would be no necessity for drugs or medicines,
because bisurafecl magnesia instantly neu-
tralises acidity, stops food fermentation and
thus insures normal painless digestion by
enabling the stomach to do its work without
hindrance.—Advt.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
who win gaete price for it*
LDcD
Water Lifted 500 ft.,
Pumped a Mile,
at a cost of about Id. per hour.
OUR FARM PUMP
1 ENGINE will do this as
well as cut chaff, saw
wood, work shearing-
machines, etc.. It can be
attached to a windmill of
almost any pump in three
minutes. Needs no mechanic
to fix or operate, and
works all day without
attention. Hundreds sold
and giving satisfaction.
£lO DOWN, BALANCE VERY EASY.
If interested in water supply or irrigation
state your working conditions and we will
quote. We stock Steam, Kerosene, Petrol
an 3 A ,r Engines, Centrifugal Pumps
and Myer s,” “Gould’s” and “Deming's”
f , or a ’> services. Mackie’s Rock
M? ™er Borer Working Heads and
Plants for deep well and bore pumpin'* a
specialty. Immense stocks Challenge
indnnils and Water Supply accessories.
We erect plant if required and give easy
terms. Catalogues and expert advice free.
Langwill Bros. 8 Davies Pty. Ltd
110-114 Sturt Street, SOUTH MELBOURNE
Near Princes Bridge.
King George IV
I UIW M WHISKY
11
THE TOP NOTCH SCOTCH
A SAFE PROTECTOR
ABORIGINAHTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Across Australia”: Up the creek there
was something doing. On the early morning air
thin streaks of dust rose, mingling into puff-balls
for a ■ few minutes and then again dissolving. I
found the cause to be a black snake and a green
snake settling their political differences. For 20
minutes they wrestled and constricted, endeavoring
to sink their fangs into each ether’s neck. Sud-
denly breaking apart the green fellow slipped into
MITIGATING CIRCUMSTANCES.
TONY (to hideous stranger): “You must
excusa ma little-a gair-rla. She ver-r-ra
nervous, signor. Ver-r-ra easy to
fr-r-righten. Yessitaday, signor, I had
to sella da monk!"
the swift shallow waters of the tropical stream.
Hooking his tail on to a submerged rock he anchored
there, - head just above the surface. The black
reptile meanwhile disappeared. Late that afternoon
I returned to fill the quart-pot. The black snake
was lying out in the hot sun, dead, and covered with
meat-ants. The green snake was still moored in
midstream. Once before I had seen a panting,
gasping iguana lying in a running stream. May
not this be one of Nature’s mysterious cures for the
bites of venomous reptiles? As a general rule, old
dame Nature supplies the antidote to natural poisons
and venoms.
“Azac”: An Abo. scribe was scoffed at
some time ago because he asserted that a snake
had sucked a cow. Well, listen to the following,
which comes from the S’African correspondent of
the London Daily Express
One of his Great Danes (dogs) gave birth to a
litter of five healthy pups, but without any cause,
in the space of three days, the owner lost four of
them. Although every investigation was made no
clue could be found as to their death. One even-
ing, however, the owner was struck dumb by the
sight that met his eyes on going to the kennel.
There in the kennel was a large mamba—one of
the most poisonous of snakes —sucking the mother
dog in company with the remaining pup
The reptile was shot, and the bitch and pup were
none the worse for their close association with the
snake. It is now apparent that the reptile dis-
covered that there was a drink at an early period.
When it went to have its daily drink it must have
been disturbed by the movements of the pups, which
it dispatched one at a time.
If it is possible for a snake to suck a bitch in South
Africa what is to stop a snake sucking a cow in
Australia ?
* * * #
“Wildarra”: Another helping of dinkum
Australian tracking. A ten-year-old youngster of
Boulder (W.A.) went rabbiting and lost himself in
the Kurrawang bush, out from Bindull. Twenty-four
hours later a John Hop and a blacktracker set after
him, and in another 24 hours they came up with
him about eight miles north-west of Kurrawang. He
had wandered in all directions, and had covered
about 35 miles. For two days he had had neither
food nor water, and he was close-up finish when the
trailers got him. If they’d done some compara-
tively easy thing to save the kid’s life they’d have
got the Boyal Humane Society’s medal or a certifi-
cate, and perhaps a brass band and a mayoral
address thrown in; but as it is—well, their troubles !
* * * *
“Camelero”: Cannot say how long a
camel can go without water, but during the Senussi
campaign in N.W. Egypt one of our animals, whose
rider was in hospital, was neglected by the watering
party and did not receive a drink for two weeks. In
the Camel Corps we never allowed our animals to go
longer than seven days without water. When the
corps was first formed and was stationed at a post
where water was plentiful, certain officers who were
ignorant of the animals’ habits had them watered
every second day, with the result that when they
took part in the long trek across barren Sinai they
went to pieces if they were not watered three times
a week.
* » * *
“Konini”: When the ’flu was raging in
the North Island of Maoriland the natives had a
bad time, but none of them got such a shock as one
Henare in Taranaki. The whole family was stricken
down, a fact which was known to the navigator of
the local hearse, since he had to frequently pass
Henare’s place en route to the boneyard. Returning
from a funeral one day he pulled up his rolling-stock
at the Maori’s front gate and went in to see how
the patients were. As he walked towards the house
Henare darted out foaming with indignation. “What
you bring that damn thing here for?” he demanded,
pointing to the hearse. “I’m not dead yet. Take it
away; it’s no plutty use to me.” He was really
annoyed, nor could his suspicions be soothed by the
corpse-stevedore’s explanation that he had merely
called to see if all was well. “All right,” said the
visitor; “but if you’re not back in bed in about
10 seconds I’ll call round for you the day after
to-morrow without fail.” Henare’s retreat would have
beaten gunfire.
* * * *
“Barcoo”: “Frank R.” (B. 19/12/’18)
asks the crocigator’s best performance in travelling
overland. On one occasion, 16 miles out on the
Downs off the Roper River (N.T.), in a lagoon that
had no outlet to nor' inlet from the tidal river,' we
discovered two of the saurians—and just in time.
The boss and another man had stripped, but being
genuine bushmen their eyes were taking in the
surface and banks of the pool. Suddenly the boss
stiffened and pointed to what looked like a couple
of rough ends of logs sticking out of the water.
A bullet from a Winchester went smack into what
turned out to be the snout of a croc.
* * * *
“Book”: Apropos of the fig-tree’s habit
of fastening itself on some other tree, has any Abo.
heard of one fig taking root on the trunk of
another? A good example of this curiosity can be
seen at Jamberoo (N.S.W.), where a magnificent
Moreton Bay is harboring a Port Jackson. It is
almost impossible to tell which is host and which
boarder. They are almost of the same size, and, as
united, measure some 40ft. round the base.
“D.F.” : Migration runs mostly from the
Speck to the mainland, but it is claimed that the
little striped flying' squirrels have moved
the other way. The Royal Society theory is
that they are not indigenous to the island,
and were introduced in the thirties of last
century by returning Port Phillip settlers.
But Mrs. Roberts, of Beaumaris, who knows
as much about Tasmanian animals as most
people, maintains that they are natives of. the
place. She says they were widely dispersed in the
bush 70 years ago, and the introduction theory does
not allow time for this.
“Andrew Ralph”: Have any Abo.-readers
seen a dinkum stand-up fight between two buck-
hares ? They prop upright on their hind legs and
box with their front paws, sparring, ducking, upper-
cutting in pugilistic fashion, fur flying in all direc-
tions. When one pug. gets winded or passed out he
falls on his back and skies his tail.
THE NEWER THEOLOGY.
“Well, dearie, what did you learn at Sunday-school?"
"Oh. Mummie, it was about a lady God knew, and He told her not to look back, but
she did, and He turned her into a packet of salts.”
“E.S.S.”: The new N. S. Wales Local
Government Bill aims a brick at the necord-
smashing teamster whose ambition is to shift more
wheat or wool in one load than anybody else.
Recently a team conductor up at Ganmain piled 305
bags of wheat, weighing 25 tons 7cwt., on to his
waggon and drew the load six miles. Straightway
some other flash party in the same locality loaded
up 342 bags, weighing 26 tons, and hauled the cargo
along for 12 miles with 18 horses. As this sort of
competition plays the devil with the roads, the car-
rier who uses the thoroughfare in any such extra-
ordinary fashion is warned that he shall pay the
whole cost of repairing the damage he does.
* * * *
U.P.”: South Australia’s champion sting-
ray was harpooned by Archie Price at Port Noar-
lunga the other day. It measured 7ft. 7in. from the
head to the tip of tail and sft. 3in. across. With
luck you might pick up something a lot better to
go surfing with.
A PAINFUL MISTAKE.
“ What’s the poor man been doin’ this time,
Mrs. Hinissey?"
“What's he been doin’? Givin’ me the glad
eye in the tram he was —not knowin'
his laicful wife because of me influenzy
mask, th’ wretch!"
“Ato’s” tale of a simple bushman: —
, Glenrowan pub looked cool and inviting. We
: left the car at the door and found the beer delicious.
We lounged about the bar while the publican pro-
duced an oft-told tale, the tale of the Kellys, for the
history of Glenrowan is the history of the Kellys.
The bar door was pushed open by a battered old
bike of the early ’nineties. After it came the
owner, sun-tanned to the color of coffee, coatless
and ziphed like Samson.
“Day, blokes,” he nodded to us, as with a
sweep of a huge hand he shifted from his forehead
half a pint of perspiration.
“Two long sleevers,” he said to the publican.
Then he turned to us. “Flaming hot, ain’t it?
S’pose the stink-cart is yours ?”
Spencer said he owned the car, and asked him to
have a drink.
“Two long sleevers for me. Them there stink-
carts ain’t much good. A nell of noosance, ain’t
they? ’Ere’s luck! Gome far to-day?”
“From Melbourne,” said Spencer.
“ ’Ow long didjer take?”
“Four hours,” said Spencer modestly.
“A-r! Get work! You mean fourteen, dontjer?
Four hours!”
He patted his primitive old bike lovingly. “Tell
yer what! I’ll race yer to Wang, me on my jigger
and yous in yer stink-cart.”
Our roar of laughter did not perturb him in the
slightest.
“That there stink-cart learned yer to make that
sort of row. Yer ain’t got pluck to race me for
a quid.”
“We’ll be in W T ang before you get to the end of
the street,” said Spencer.
“There ain’t no streets in Glenrowan,” laughed
the publican—“only dust-heaps.”
“Hot yer a quid I get to Wang before yer. Bet
yer a quid I get to Ryan’s pub before yer! Gam!
Get work! Y’ain’t got the pluck of a louse.”
He turned to his beer, with an expression of
deepest contempt in every bit of his face visible
to the eye.
Spencer loves to be theatrical. He tore a page
from his pocket-book and wrote some lines on it.
He then handed his note to the stranger, who read
it aloud
“19/1/’l9, 11.10 a.m.
“Dear Ryan,—lf the bearer arrives at the hotel
before me this morning give him a pound for me.
-—Yours, G. Valentine Spencer.”
“Lumme! Are you that bloke! I’ve ’eard of
yer. They said yer was a good-looking bloke. Lot
of liars in the world!” And he pushed his old
rattle-trap "out through the door.
Before he had come into the bar he had let down
our four tyres and drawn the valves. The publican
on the bar-door step laughed cynically and went
inside.
“Sgt. S.”: The vin blanc was flowing
freely in Madame Louise’s estaminet at Bac-St. Maur,
and as usual the Diggers were spinning yarns of old
Aussie days. Riding was the topic, and the boys
were sticking to anything, from Cup-winners to
celluloid camels in Hades. Nothing was thrown
until Splinter testified: “The hardest thing ever I
struck was a filly from the Snowy River district.
She bucked with me for three days, and they had to
feed me with a shanghai.”
(Continued on page 24.1
THE ALARM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“The U.S. Prohibitionists have great hopes of
Australia. You may seem to be hopelessly pickled,
but they will save you in spite of yourselves.’’—
Alma Whitaker (B. 13;'2/’l9).
We seem to be hopelessly pickled,
Soused, tanked, on the verge of d.t.;
But Crankyland wowsers are tickled
To death just our saviors to be.
They’ve led other countries to water
That erstwhile drained oceans of rye,
And they’ll lead ours, a lamb to the slaughter—
We’ll be “dry,” brother drunks, we’ll be “dry” J
They’re girding their armor on, brothers,
The ginger-pop, cold-tea brigade;
We’ll be going the way of the others,
In spite of the yells of “The Trade.”
Though we’ve lurched, and we’ve staggered and
stumbled
For years while the tiddley was nigh,
There’s the last jag in sight, lads, I’ve tumbled—
We’ll be “dry,” brother drunks, we’ll be “dry” !
The closure looms, don’t you forget it,
Once Yankeeland takes us in.hand;
Beer, glorious beer, if we let it,
For ever, amen, will be banned.
To wine and to whisky and brandy
It’s not au revoir, but good-bye;
Prepare for the drought—keep some handy:
We’ll be “dry,” brother drunks, we’ll be “dry.”
Bright and early I’m laying down bottles;
I’m busily stocking my shelves;
Ere the missioners throttle our throttles,
Ere they save us in spite of ourselves.
I xvon’t let them drive me to sly-grog—•
No secretive boozer am I:
Take a tip, boys ! I’ll make sure of my grog—-
We’ll be “dry,” brother drunks, we’ll be “dry”!
VICTORIA.
EARDLEY TURNER.


THE BEHNING PLAYER PIANO
Makes Home-life Happier. America’s
most artistic Player. Exquisite tone
quality and touch.
THE ESTEY PIANO. Model B.
Specially recommended for hot climates.
Stands in tune for very long: periods.
THE WONDERFUL VICTOR.
Academy Model.
Kenowned throughout Australia for its
remarkable durability.
GRAMOPHONES.
PALING’S
for PIANOS and
PLAYER PIANOS.
Most people judge a Piano by its case, but there is
more in a Piano than a Piano Case. Pure tone-
quality and perfect touch are what you should look
for in purchasing a Piano or Player Piano. Buy
one of Paling’s Pianos and you make no mistake.
Piano or Player Piano
Catalogues post free.
Have a Piano in your home that will be a help to
the children in their study of beautiful music—a
Piano that will never disappoint you ; an instru-
ment that is honestly and faithfully built throughout,
one of Paling’s Pianos. Remember, we Guarantee
Satisfaction.
EASY TERMS, IF REQUIRED.
PALING’S
338 George Street, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE,
TOOWOOfIBA,
NEWCASTLE,
LISMORE.
the behning player piano.
SHUT —In position to be played by
band.
THE VICTOR PLAYER PIANO.
The banisher of lonely moments. A
most delightful instrument, which
everyone can play.
THE PLAYOTONE.
A very fine Player indeed, at a most
moderate price. Ask for particulars.
ESTEY ORGANS.
The World-wide Reputation of Machinery
mu
fpKTS
HO
WEC<£
THE
Of
is due to Genuine Merit
No commodity gains, on mere chance, such universal favor as that
enjoyed by Cooper Machines. . There must be unusual quality and
unusual features back of any article to place it where Cooper Machines
stand to-day. In every land where Sheep are raised, Wool-growers,
contractors and shearers alike are unanimous in their praise Of the
high quality, wonderful performance and economy of Cooper Shearing
Machines.
This reputation has been won, firstly, by endless scientific research
and study on the part of the Cooper Experts for the past thirty years in
woolsheds throughout the world, and, secondly, by co-operation on the
' part of skilled engineers and the most modern manufacturing facilities
available in producing a machine of the efficiency and quality to meet
the expert’s demands.
The World-famed WOOp&i? Air-
Handpiece
stands alone for cool, light running, fast, clean cutting, long life and low cost of upkeep. Costs less in the first place than other makes. Gives
longer years of use. Consumes 50% less duplicates than all other types. Cuts a cleaner fleece and breaks up less wool than any other handpiece
made. The tension-pin requires no re-grinding. IsTo replacing or expanding tension-nuts are necessary. The fork is well balanced on a centre
bearing, and driven from behind the hearing with a strong, free leverage. It never gets out of level, and is unusually light on duplicates.
Why not install that much-needed shearing plant now ? Rains are setting in, you will soon want it for crutching, and it will be up ready
for work when shearing 'time arrives. Drop us a few lines to-day and we will send you a complete estimate and full particulars of an outfit
to suit your requirements.
We have good stocks, and can make immediate delivery from any of the following Depots: —■
COOPER ENGINEERING CO. LTD.,
134 Sussex Street, SYDNEY. 486 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Clark & Fauset, Brisbane, Queensland; Sidney Williams & Co., Rockhampton, Queensland; Australasian Implement & H.F. Co., Adelaide, S.A.; G. P.
Harris Scarfe & Co., Perth, W.A.; New Zealand Loan & M. A. Co. Ltd., Rockhampton, Townsville and Hughenden, Queensland; W. Hart & Sons,
Launceston, Tasmania; Buchanan Davidson Ltd., Hobart, Ta smania.


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
head office —
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COLLINS ST.. MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
Trao tmU Im Mark
mm
AIILtK -
OS
hAftkl
Our Delicious Chocolates—
FUSSY GIRL
Fancy Boxes.
FUSSY CAKES
• Vanilla, Nut and Nut Milk.
OTHER EXCLUSIVE LINES
IN FANCY BOXES—Louise
(very large), Sepia, Y'ou’re in
Love, Tableaux and Birthday.
Equal to Best Imported.
CONFECTION IN PERFECTION.
Wholesale only—
McINTYRE BROS., Melbourne.
Inter-State Agents:
DAVID BLASHKI. Pitt Street, Sydney.
MADDOX & LAURENCE, Perth
J. P. WILSON LTD., Brisbane.
W. R. LANGSFORD, Adelaide.
“Lantana”: The severe drought conditions
in the West (N.S.W.) have caused a migration of
emus. Hundreds of them have moved east in search
of food and water. Recently about 500 of the birds
were seen advancing between the Bogan and the
Macquarie, the regularity of their formation suggest-
ing military manoeuvres. Never before have such
large numbers been seen in that region. A few
stragglers have approached close to townships. By
their damage to wire-netting and fencing the in-
vaders have brought the combined curse of the
district to bear on them. They have become classified
as the ally of the rabbit, whose movements are made
the freer through the emus breaking down the wire
barriers.
“Toby C.” : At the Outback pub in the
timber country, where working bullocks are remem-
bered in the Sabbath prayers, it’s no uncommon
sight to see an idle bullocky demonstrating his
ability on a string of empty beer barrels or any
other substitute for the real live stock. Knew one
persuader who started to get a post-and-wire fence
into action. After a 10-minutes’ gentle appeal
two wires were snapped and the corner post five
chains away was lifted.
HE LEFT A LOOPHOLE.
THE REV. GENT : “Mr. Guzzle, you pro-
mised me you wouldn’t touch drink for
a year.”
THE IRREV. DITTO : “Burri didn’ shay which
year.”
“Buhgalally” : With “Paul Cupid”* (B.
6/2/’l9) I affirm that rabbits can do without water.
On Pine Plains station (North Vic.) they were like
the ancient plague of locusts. They had no chance
of a drink from a trough, yet they increased and
multiplied. There was only one well on the run,
and the owners could not spare any of that water
for bunny, or they would have had to go without
the weekly wash. I ought to know, for I often tossed
the boss for first wash.
THE FLOOD.
FIRST DAMP COCKY : “ ’Ow did you git on, Dan? Lcrst much?”
SECOND DITTO : “Everythin’! Votes, crops, ’ome—only the mortgage left.”
Adelaide Museum has acquired a speci-
men of the “beaked” whale, which came ashore alive
at Kingston, on the south-east coast ; also, from
Streaky Bay, in the West, an 87ft. whale, which is
.lone of the biggest possessed by any museum any-
where, and will need a house of it.i own.
“Nitram”: “Scotty” (B. 2/G/ ! l9) must
be either a Collins-street bushman or the greatest
conjurer that ever came to Australia if he can
extract 40oz. of pure oil by simply boiling a
gobanna’s gall. The gall does not contain oil, nor
does the oil exist anywhere near the gall. The
usual way of obtaining it is by running a knife
along the belly and the fat will be exposed on each
side, somewhat resembling the roe of a fish. This
fat has only to be lifted out, laid in the sun to
melt, then bottled for use. That is what commer-
cial go. oil is and the only process it goes through.
A big go. may yield about a pint of oil, which can
be readily sold for 10s a pint. I know what I
state is correct, as I used to add to my income by
shooting gos. and disposing of oil until a benevolent
Government (Queensland) passed a law protecting
the reptiles in all rabbit country. They’re not pro-
tected in Queensland except in rabbit districts, but
they have been protected in N. S. Wales for years.
I have heard that the Chinks buy gohanna galls to
use as medicine, but the one I tried to sell some to
wanted to know whaffor, and absolutely refused to
name a price, although he quoted sixnence each for
crows' galls.
Eidclyson ’: Cobbit was a farm-laborer
at Potholes, Simson a trucker in the Hammerley
Home Paddock, and Johanna Dill the elder daughter
of Jimmie Dill, who owned 400 acres that grew
better material for stone fences than any other land
in the State, and more of it. Quite a lot of
trouble arose out of the association of Cobbit and
Simson ar.d Johanna, due mainly to the peculiar
temperament of Cobbit, combined with a primitive
intellect that pointed the direct way out of a diffi-
culty with whatever implement of trade happened
to be at hand. Cobbit wanted Johanna; he
wanted her in a sullen, savage sort of way, and
when it seemed that he couldn’t get her because of
her preference for Simson, he went into hiding, like
a hurt bear. There came a cold wet Sunday after-
noon when Cobbit and Simson and two or three
others were drinking hot port-wine contrary to
law in Mrs. Hannah’s back parlor. Ben Simson
was due at the shaft at nine o’clock to relieve Andy
West, who went on at 5 p.m. in the empty mine
to hand-pump the water from the incline at the
end of the main drive. If you drink no port-wine
the idea of going on on Sunday evening to work
alone in a great, wet, empty, desolate, creaking
drive, down 400 ft. of black, dripping shaft, presents
no particular fascination ; if you drink a good deal
of hot port-wine with sugar and nutmeg in it by
a warm fire in congenial company, the idea becomes
monstrous. At 8 p.m. Simson, encouraged by
Oobbit, was breathing defiance of the Hammerley
Home Paddock Co. He would take old Tom
Oobbit’s advice, he would not go to work to-nigjht ;
he probably would go to work no more. He would
marry Johanna Dill, and live on cows. Cobbit was
paying for the hot wine now. Cobbit was a good
fellow, a man and a brother. He apologised
openly, profuselv and frequently to Cobbit for
taking his girl away from him. But he would get
Cobbit another girl. Dear old Cobbit deserved
a good wife if ever a man did. Late that Sunday
night Mulhouse, searching for a lost calf, saw two
figures stagger towards the open shaft of the Old
Pioneer, witnessed a brief struggle, and saw one
figure strike the other on the head with some imple-
ment and hurl the body into the mine. At seven
o’clock on Monday morning a constable from Clunes
arrested Cobbit for the attempted murder of
Benjamin Simson, whose damaged body had been
found on a crazy staging 50ft. down the Old Pioneer
shaft. Cobbit broke into furious imprecations on
hearing that Simson was not dead. He had
deliberately, and at some expense, lured his rival
from his work with the intention of doing for him.
In Simson’s absence Andy West had been compelled
to keep on at the pump at the incline, and Cobbit
was in gaol when he heard the truth. Then he
behaved in his cell like a maddened animal; with
reason too, for never had Fate played so scurvy a
trick on a hapless man. At about IX o’clock
on Sunday night there had been a fall in Home
Paddock, and a man had been caught at the pump
and crushed to death—the man who was Andy AVest,
and who should have been Ben Simson !
“Black Bonn-et’’: Here in North Queens-i
land if a boy desires to take a gin for his
. Mary he persecutes her with attentions. He
follows her like a shadow, sits at her side, and f
continually pulls • or plucks at her clothing, until
the lady whose emotions are thus evoked consents
to take the nuisance for her Benjamin. Here is a
little drama which was enacted on the Bloomfield
lately. Minnie, a girl of 14, was brought down the
river to Bloomfield (AV’eary Bay) by her parents (o
be given over to her betrothed (they are generally
promised as babies), but she did not like him, being
already enamored of another boy, and there was a
great scene. When the canoe of her parents started
for home she sprang into the sea and swam a long
way in pursuit, but the bridegroom followed, caught
her, and took her to shore and his gunyah. Again
she escaped, and swimming one of the tidal creeks
eluded Benjamin. She succeeded in joining the boy
she wished for, and they went off together. Later,
however, he went away to the reef in a fishing-boat,
and the bride, being persuaded by a third boy,
proved untrue. Yet, in some matters the blacks
are very strict. One of the best-known boys In
the district is an outlaw from his tribe and his
home on the Bloomfield. His son being away with
one of the boats, he tried to attract his daughter-
in-law. She ran crying to the camp, and the
gins hunted him away. The “king” was informed
and the offender, threatened with spears, "was driven
across the river, his Maj. crying after him the
punishment he must expect if he returned to camp.
While I’m on the job I would like to give my evi-
dence about the aboriginal’s pedal extremities. The
feet of the blacks in this district are as a rule small—-
smaller than those of the whites —and many of the
gins’ feet are very small and quite pretty. They
get scarred- and hardened by age and use, of course,
but although the toes are often used to pick up
small things, the division between the great toe
and the next is not marked. An obese black is a
rarity here. I have seen only one, and that a gin.
The type must be different further south.
“Milko” : This is the easiest way to stop
Strawberry milking herself. Rub a mixture of lard
and kerosene on her teats, twice daily. Now you
can all go home.
* * * »
“Nor’- West”: With the drought going
strong, the western (N.S.W.) rivers have become a
mere trickle and large holes have dried up altogether.
There is a great mustering of the clans among the
ducks and other waterfowl. All along the Gwydir
.Vast flocks .of ducks—black, wood (or maned goose),
teal and red duck or widgeon (the fastest flier of
all) are congregated, diving about in the shallow
waters or sitting on the sandbanks. Tucker is
plentiful and the birds are fat. Black ducks are
on the spot from the great swamps of the water-
courses about 40 miles from Moree. When a dry
spell occurs these swamps crack up and the ducks
trek to the rivers. As soon as the big rains fail
they levant back to the swamps. Isn’t it about
time, these great swamp lands and natural breeding-
places, were declared, game sanctuaries?
* * * *
“Lannercost”: Wild pigs are certainly
turned into money in North Queensland, and any
doubter who has not seen anything but the gail
used should visit the Herbert River district. The
wild pig here fattens on tjiulgaroo, a sort of nr
Nearly all dead pork in the butcheries at
once ran wild. T'other day, an order was given
by a Townsville butcher to a man who has taken
over a property stocked mostly with wild pigs.
“Dpn’t mind how big they are, ’ wrote the butcher.
In a few day's came another communique: “We did
vrder big pigs, but did rot expect bullocks.’? ‘ Have
seen wild pigs here when dressed showing a layer
of nearly three inches of fat under the skin. ..What
an opening for our brilliant food-eheapeners, T. J.
Ryan and Co., in a State bacon-factory!
“Melos”: A farmer at Uki, North Coast
(N.S.W.), has a cow with a milk-bag at each end —
one in the usual position; the other on the neck,
near the shoulders. The lady, a Guernsey and the
mother of triolets, is otherwise normal; so also are
her offspring.
THE PROPHYLACTIC.
THE MUFFLED : “So you don't believe in
these precautions. Well, perhaps you
are right —ice need oxygen, you know,
plenty of oxygen."
THE UNMUFFLD : “ That's wot I says. A
drop o’ gin, I says. It’s ridiculous
closin’ the ’otels just when a body most
needs a drop o’ gin."
GARDEN CROSSING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Light along a grey-green track,
Windy saplings tossing,
Oft in days of battle wrack
Have my dreams gone jogging back
Over Garden Crossing.
Garden Ford where cool and wide
Shoals the loitering river,
Where at eve the children ride
Through the shallows sunset-dyed
As the last lights quiver.
Bushland borders bank and bank,
Wattle gleam and glamor
Weaves about the cattle tank.
Memory marked the whir and clank,
Of the windmill’s clamor.
Crossing Garden Ford with me,
She and I returning,
Sad at heart and sober we,
All the gold-green ways to see,
Stricken sere and burning.
Stone and sand and trampled clay,
Where were wont the cresses
Just to nod and nod aswayq
With dim, dappled lights at play,
Through their wet green tresses.
Greyly field and forest' flow
To the dusk horizon—
Wheeling, wheeling, hawk and crow,
Watch some famished beast below
Lick the clods it dies on.
Light along a death-grey track,
Dusty saplings tossing,
Home from war and battle wrack.... \
Ah ! not thus my dreams came back
Over Carden Crossing.
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.
Bill Bowyang” : Binghi does not always
wash, down his dinner with water. In the Gulf
district (3ST.Q.) he is very fond of a beverage made
out of the eggs of the white- or sugar-ant, and the
green-ant and is also utilised by the natives for the
same purpose. By squashing together a number of
ants which have been collected in a cuplilce vessel,
and adding water., a drink is obtained which Binghi
swears resembles limejuice in flavor on account of
the formic acid contained in the ant. Maybe he’s
right, but if it was a case of that or gin and castor-
0’1 I know which I’d reach for.


o\utekj
un
»> s
l NY
Itjcirqualilies
my,
•tfts
Orp
ClC^
KESS
mro
a
rrifinniiuiiij
:y
A
w
I
s#
mm
V
Cigarettes of the Highest Class
at Moderate Prices.
CIGARETTES
The quality of these hig'h-class Cig'arettes
is exactly the same as before the war,
NO SUBSTITUTE
whatever being used in their manufacture.
The Famous Red Packet
No. 333. lO f ° r 3d.
STANDARD WEIGHT.
Obtainable of all High-class Tobacconists and Stores throughout Australasia.
Sole Manufacturers: ARDATH TOBACCO CO. LTD., LONDON. ENGLAND


Paint
PREPARED.
Made Ist Australia)
** The paint that
beats
the weather ! M
S.W.P. (Sherwin-Williams Paint) is the RIGHT
Paint made from pure lead carbonate with
just the right amount of oxide of zinc and
refined oil to keep it elastic and durable.
Mixed in the right way too—by high-powered
machines according to the Sherwin-Williams
formula and special process, the results of more
than 50 years’ experience.
THE SHERWIN-WILLIAMS CO. (Australia) LTD.
Head Office, 63 Pitt Street, Sydney. Agents everywhere.
111 BeTKere—
use
ume
k
can
ovi
eapan
appointment*
time
on
this R
able
Spirit
with
lank.
y
our
m
Otl
PLUME BENZINE
THOUSANDS of Motorists
appreciate its reliability and its
honest uniform service—day in,
and day out. They say Plume
doesn’t jib on the hills. It doesnH
let them down when they are in a
hurry. They are sure of getting
there with Plume in the tank.
When next you are going to fill
up, turn in at the dealer with the
Plume Sign.
Don’t ask for Benzine—say
P 5
vacuum oil cor. urr. l to.
Plume.
it was the only thing to do. The committees
at least preserved 'some order and discipnn .
Kornilof, “the little Cossack _ geneial,
tried another plan; and in Australia leading
articles were written about him, and ne
was judged to be the strong man who would
save the situation, lie worked ceaselessly
to restore a rigid discipline. Whole bat-
talions of “mutinous” soldiers were slang ti-
tered by machine-guns; and their stilt bodies
were stood up against fences with warning
notices attached. He set out to abolish the
soldiers’ committees with the help ot two
Cossack divisions on whom he believed he
could entirely depend. When they found
out what his policy was they revolted
almost to a man, ‘*»d placed him under
arrest. In Poole’s judgment, Kornilof s
policy “caused a reaction, a tremendous radi-
cal wave that undid Kerensky’s work, and
led to the coup d'etat of the Bolsheviki.
So bang go another score of leading articles.
It was a Moscow mill-hand, of peasant
stock, who explained what happened after-
wards :
Then came the Bolsheviki and they have been
with us ever since. There are only a few ot these
fellows, but they have tin-plated throats. They
never get tired of talking, and yet they
don’t know what they want. Still they keep
talking, and nobody dares to get up anil
talk back. When one of our fellows spoke
for the war, that night they shot him down in the
street. You see my wife and little kids. So men
like me keep our mouths shut.
But that was a very practical fellow. Few
of them seem like that. Poole was at a
great railway station. The train was mte
—every train was late. The ticket office
wasn’t opened. Nobody seemed to mind.
Tickets were forgotten. There was merely
a babel of argument about anything and
everything except the late trains. The train
staffs had probably got. off somewhere to
argue, too. At another time, on a train
that was crawling along five hours late,
Poole heard a great commotion.
I jumped out and found that two freight cars filled
with calves had just been hitched on the train. The
brakeman, with that frankness so common among his
countrymen, explained to us. “A fellow asked me to
hitch on these cars. And I said ‘Why not,
brother?’ So he gave me 10 roubles for each car.
And is any one troubled? Not at all.”
Except, of course, that now the train
couldn’t even crawl. Poole saw “long lines
of freight cars upon sidings broken down per-
haps, or as often filled w?th food supplies
that were sorely needed somewhere.” So
communication has gone to pieces; and those
who bribe most heavily get what service
there is. The peasant sent his grain to the
towns, and gob back roubles. He didn’t
want roubles: he w’anted implements, per-
haps. But he couldn’t get them. Then he
left off sending food. Prices rose The men
in the towns struck, and got more wages.
Said one such workman:
We have everything in our hands. We stop work
if we like and hold a meeting to talk about Govern-
ment questions.
One pointed to Article IX: “Meanwhile
the owner shall not be allowed to sell or
lease the factory because it is soon to be
ours.”
There are committees of soldiers and com-
mittees of workers —thousands of committees
of all sorts. They are all organising and
nearly all organising differently. Even the
Bolsheviki can’t agree about the most im-
portant practical details. They want to
take over industries, but many of them won t
trust a centralised Government to do it.
Meantime they talk and talk and produce
programmes and draw up schemes to infinity.
The town worker gets eight times the old
wages for a quarter of the old work, and
finds that the extra roubles are no good to
him. And the peasant gets the land he has
longed for, and, being unable to get _ the
implements because the town worker isnt
working, finds that it is no good to him either.
Then they both think that perhaps their last
plan of salvation was wrong, and the com-
mittee discusses the matter at great length
and produces some more paper salvation. But
the implements come no faster and the trains
run no better and the corn gets no cheaper.
A woman summed up the situation for
Ernest Poole:
These political men have talked so much of what
they are going to do for us. They promise us
billions of roubles. Shall they drop from the
skies? We know that true money is hard to earn.
They may print millions of paper roubles, but my
three kopecks won’t grow to be six.
No, a nation can’t eat the bread that it has
not got. There is no escape from work. It
may be horrible, but the flowers of rhetoric
are not edible, and the most perfect system
of philosophy won’t of itself add a bushel
to the acre of corn.
Andersen of the Fairy Tales
From J. H. Lundager, of Mt. Morgan:—
“Francis Brien’’ (B. 13/2/19) couples Hans Chris-
tian Andersen first with the Grimm Brothers and
next with Goethe and Heine. The inference is that
Andersen was a German, like the three others, where-
as he was proud to be a Dane. The Grimms’ Fairy
Tales were collected different sources a
creditable performance, I admit ; but Andersen’s were
all his own inventions. He is known to the English
people as an author of fairy tales, but he was also a
great dramatist and poet. His life was in itself
one of the most remarkable fairy stories ever told.
In the Ugly Duckling he refers to himself. Ward
Lock’s large edition of his tales contains a well-
written biographical note. I can vouch for it, as
I knew the genius personally and have heard him
read his own writings in the Workers’ Society in
Copenhagen, Strange to say, though I thought I
knew all Andersen’s works, in 1882 in Sydney Public
Library I found an English translation of “The Two
Baronesses,” and read it for the first time. As 1o
the Germans claiming him —well, Germany has had
a habit for many years of claiming eminent Danes.
They even claimed Thorwaldsen, the great sculptor.
This intellectual looting is not to be wondered at.
They have even tried to. carry off Shakspeare. It s
a national habit.
A Satchel of Books
The Martial Adventures of Henry and Me, by
William Allen White (Macmillan Co., New York).
The story of two Americans who went to Europe, as
Red Cross commissioners. When the writer gambols,
as he does frequently, he is rather tiresome. When,
visiting England at the end of his trip, he becomes
more serious, he is well worth reading. And this
is his conclusion: “In every other war soldiers have
dreamed high dreams of their rewards. But they
have not taken them because....the majority had
no power. Now we have a new condition. Labor
is in a numerical majority, and the majority has
political power and political purpose.”
The Spinners, by Eden Philpotts (London, Heine-
mann). Four hundred pages about a mill and its
workers. The characters crowd and jostle and
hang upon the thread of the tale—characters that
may be well drawn, but certainly are not the sort
to lose sleep over. The conversations are as dreary
as the people who make them. The yarn beg'ins
with a funeral and ends with a suicide, and some
where about half-way there is as vivid a picture
of a seduction as decency will allow. A distinctly
unpleasant book ; but not lacking in power.
Three Anzacs in the War, by Lieut. E. A. Dunn
(Skeffington, London). The Australian edition,
which we haven’t seen, is to be called “Three Aus-
tralians in the War. ’ Why the difference? There
is a great deal of soldier talk here of the sort we
are so familiar with, a good deal of minor incident
and description. It is a plain tale that, but for
its 999 brothers, might have filled a useful place.
As it is, it has no special distinction and we have
reached the point of “War books half-price.” Still,
50 years from now, a young Australian would get
a very fair idea of a soldier’s job from its pages.
New Poems and Variant Readings, by Robert
Louis Stevenson (London, Chatto and Windus).
Stevenson has so many lovers that the publication of
his waste-paper basket would be financially quite
worth while. In this book there is nothing that could
enhance his fame and not much that it would be
in the interest of his future repute to include in
his collected works; ■ but a faint literary interest
clings to the whole. That is inevitable; for the
peculiar sweetness and force of Stevenson’s mind
was such that even the worst his pen could do car-
ried with it some hint of thought or grace of expres-
sion. The lines “To Sydney” are tolerably common-
place ; and some of the longer things are tedious.
Here are four unusual lines: —•
The angler rose, he took his rod,
He kneeled and made his prayers to God.
The living God sat overhead:
The angler tripped, the eels were fed.
Stevenson, with his care and fastidiousness over all
he published, would have made a worse noise than
Massey about Samoa and the neighborhood if he
had seen this collection. A bad book; and a pity.
The Great Hunger, by Johan Bojer, translated from
the Norwegian by W. J. Alexander Worster and 0.
Archer (Hodder and Stoughton). This is a power-
ful and interesting yarn of a man’s great hunger for
God —not quite the orthodox Divinity, but an
abstraction of the author’s and his own. The search
doesn’t matter much, but the characters in the story
are attractive and the atmosphere is good. There
is some incident, too; and at last the hero in his
own good deed, done when all the human conven-
tions demanded a bad deed, thinks he has got what
he is looking for. A book that is well worth while.
Joan and Peter: The Story of an Education, by
H. G. Wells (Cassell). In spite of the awful
lumber of words, a schoolmaster might read this
book with mild interest. The people in it are not
worth while; in fact, it is a book that as fiction
does not matter in the least.
The Inky Way
“Melb”: Archbishop Mannix’s Advocatb
is a flourishing weekly. It has always been
the inspired R.C. organ in Victoria, so the
only change is that Mother Church will take
the profits. The paper was hatched in 1868
by Samuel Vincent Winter, on the advice of
Charles Gavan Duffy, founder of Dublin
Nation. Winter was then only 25 years
old, working as a compositor for W. H. Wil-
liams. He had married at 20 with only
a week. Duffy's recommendation, both ot
paper and manager, fetched in generous finan-
cial backing. However, the paper did not
long engage S. V. Winter’s chie~f attention.
He became manager of the Herald, and onlj
gave his advice to the Advocate, which was
ably carried on by his brother, the late Joseph
Winter, of very inferior calibre to Sam, but
exactly suited to going round with the oil-
can and keeping the machine at work.
The Labor News (Sydney), now about
three months old and under the editorship
of Arthur Rae, has begun to take itself
seriously. It is the official organ of the
party, and stands for political action. There is
not much froth and bubble about it. and as
an indication of the direction in which Labor
means to go, its sobriety is Jack
Higgins, for a long time with the Worker,
has taken on the management and supplies
push on the business side. Somewhere at
the back of the News looms the Labor daily,
still large but a trifle indefinite.
“D.F.” : In a letter written in the ’sixties
to a friend in Australia, G. A. Robinson,
who collected the remnant of Tasmania s
black brothers and was afterwards the first
Protector of Aborigines in Vic., said he was
getting his journals and notes ready for pub-
lication. Robinson was then living at Rati
(Eng’.), where he died soon afterwards. Hu
MS. seems to have been lost ; it would be
worth finding if it is still in existence.
THE POET’S PLAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
They much admired at Pedigree
His forceful lines and slashing rhymes
When singing of a local spree,
Or weaving into stanzas free
The loves and scandals of the times.
The way he wrote of death, they said,
Made people willing to be dead.
His name was Ernest Arthur Goe—■
A tall, pale youth with ardent hair;
He scorned the axe and loathed the boo:
Births, marriages and beds of woe
He studied with an artist’s care.
Yet editors at hand and far
Sent back his stuff marked simply “R.”
Bell’s action for divorce was loosed
With Goe as co-respondent named.
From verse to Mrs. Bell (produced)
Bell’s counsel forcibly adduced
That.. Mrs. Bell was all they claimed.
Goe marked her there with small contrition,
The victim of a bard’s ambition.
Now that his poems you might see
All published in the evi-dence
(Though Bell was given his decree
W T ith costs against the bad co-re.)
The bard’s elation was immense,
And nothing could his triumph stint—
Had he not won his way to print f
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


Milk Not Required
n
m
/g>
\1
7
X
r
H
J
f/
m
L
%i
m
i
%
//,
i _
5^
w
I
Meggitt
LIMITED.
%
\J
m
That is the undivided opinion of an increasing
clientele, who are experiencing' the benefits of
m
the “No Trouble” Fodder.
If fed with @i Calves must thrive, because it is a hig'hly
nutritious Meal, and contains all the elements which
produce muscle and bone.
M.L.M. builds up tissue as well as furnishing the material for
the repairing of the tissues, and is convertible into fat and heat.
Establish a sound foundation for your Stock, and obtain
maximum results for minimum expenditure by including'
in all rations.
Equally Serviceable for all Classes of Stock.
Pamphlet No. 2 Instructing' How to feed mailed free.
Full particulars from Agents: Messrs. Harrisons, Ramsay Ltd., 666 Bourke Street Melbourne- Messrs if <s r „
Messrs. Clarkson Limited, Adelaide; Messrs. W. Adams & Co., Perth; Messrs. F. W. Heritage A Co Laimceston and°H 1 Streetj Brisban °i
MEGGITT LTD.
WORKS s PARRAMATTA.
(THe Pioneer Linseed Oil and Linseed Oil Meal
Manufacturers of Southern Hemisphere),
26 Ring' Street, SYDNEY
MEGGITTS
(jNsraomro
MEECITT (J
WftRAMATTA
The Boy on the Bag
guaran tees q uality.


GUARANTEED WATCHES.
A. Saunders’ Silver Hunting Keyless Flyback Chronograph,
£7/10/-. Extra jewelled, £B/10/-, £lO, £l3/10/-.
Solid Gold £l7/10/-. ISct. Gold, extra jewelled, £25, £3O,
£35, £4O. Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Oct. Gold Patent Expanding
Watch Wristlet, full-jewelled lever movement, compensation
balance, £B/10/-. Extra jewelled, £lO. 15ct. Gold,
£l5.
N
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s High-grade Nickel
and Gunmetal Lever, 25/-. Extra
jewelled, 30/-, 35/-, 40/-, 50/-
All guaranteed.
A.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Black Wristlet Watch, 20/
'25/-, 30/-, 35/-, 40/-. Silver, £2, £2/10/
Gold. £3, £3/10/-, £4/10/-, £5, £6.
All Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’ Patent Lever Wristlet Watch, full luminous dial and
hands, extra-jewelled compensation balance, in leather strap, £2.
Solid Silver, £2/10/-. £3. Gold filled, £4/10/-. 9ct. Solid
Gold, £6, £7/10/-
A. Saunders’ Lady’s 9ct. Gold Expanding Watch,, full-jewelled
lever movement, compensation balance, £lO. • luct. Gold,
£l5. Extra jewelled, £l6/10/-
SAUNDERS
JEWELLER,
805-815 Georg'e Street (Opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
A. Saunders’ Solid Gold Plain Elgin or 'Waltham, lever
movement, £lO. Heavier cases, £l2/10/-. 14ct. Gold >
£l5. IBct. Gold, £2O, £25, £3O.
Guaranteed 3, 4 and 5 years.
till
*
p: a)
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold Expanding Watch Wristlet,
full-jewelled lever movement, £6 / 10/-. Others, £4,
£4/10/-, £5, £5/10/-, £6, £7/10/-, £B/10/-,
£lO, £l3/10/-, £l5, £3O.
A. Saunders’ Nickel lighting Lever, extra-quality
movement, 40/-. Solid Silver, £3, £4/10/-,
£5, £6, £7/10/. Gold-filled Elgin or
Waltham, 10-year Case, £3/5/-. 20-year,
£4/10/-. 25-year, £5/5/-. Solid Gold, £lO,
£l2/10/-, £l5, £2O.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard*
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders'
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ lIALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
681 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
Reduce the Cost of Trustee Administration by appointing .
THE PERMANENT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
LIMITED,
TRUSTEE COMPANY
25 O’Connell St.,
SYDNEY.
Incorporated 1888 by Special Act of Parliament to act as
Trustees, Executors, Attorneys, Agents, Etc.
ESTATES, PROPERTIES, FUNDS, Etc., MANAGED EFFICIENTLY AND ECONOMICALLY.
Full Particulars on Application. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager. [2
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
Over 30 years ago the late Lord Beaconsfield
testified to the benefits he received from Him-
rod’s Asthma Powder, and every post brings
similar letters to day.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Best Remedy for Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout A ustra/asia.
BOOKS! BOOKS! BOOKS! FOR EVERYBODY!
The Book of Nature
A FULL AND EXPLICIT EXPLANATION
OF ALL THAT CAN OR OUGHT TO BE
KNOWN BY .
MAN and WOMAN,
INTENDED ESPECIALLY FOR
THE MARRIED, OR THOSE IN-
TENDING TO MARRY.
By L. M. BYRN, M.D.
A PRACTICAL COMPLETE
FAMILY DOCTOR.
No such Complete Panorama of the Mysteries
of? Human Reproduction has ever before been
given to the world.
DR. BYRN’S ILLUSTRATED EDITION
(1917 ISSUE) IS THE ONLY GENUINE
BOOK. ASK FOR IT, AND TAKE NO
OTHER. PRICE:
TWO SHILLINGS & SIXPENCE.
POST FREE.
Live and Learn, 2/-. How to Get Rich,
1/6 posted. Dr. Lamartine's Silent Friend,
1/6. Ned Donnelly's Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, 1/6. How to
Dance, 1/6 posted. How to Wrestle, 1/6.
Moll Flanders (a rare book by Defoe), 1/3
posted. Thurston's Card Tricks, 1/3. All
Zola’s including Nana, 2/- each posted.
Educating the Horse, 1/3. Ventriloquism
Made Easy, 1/3. Up-to-date Comic Reciter,
1/6 posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/3. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, G/G posted. Riddle op the Uni-
VEitSE, 1/3, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(send for list). Joys op Life, 2/-. How
to Make Your Will, 1/3. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 2/3. Career of Beauty
Darling, 2/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/6. Par-
lor Tricks and Games, 1/6. Fortune-Telling
by Cards, 1/9. Life (a book for Men and Women
of To-day), 2/-. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales,
1/9. Tricks & Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/6.
Beauty’s Secrets, 1/6 post free. Night of Temp-
tation, 2/-. How to Make Love, 1/3 post free.
Fowler’s Science of Life, 12/6. Australian
Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 4/-.
Mahomet’s Fortune-Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price 1/-, posted 1/3.
How to Become Quick at Figures, 1/3. Will
Power (Personal Magnetism), posted 1/-. San-
dow’s Book of Strength posted, 4/-. Car-
lisle’s Freemasonry, 6/3 posted. Daughters
of Ismael. 2/6. History or the Rod Flagella-
tions and the Flagellants (scarce), 15/-.
Practical Gas and Oil Engine Handbook, 5/6.
Motor Mechanics, 3/3, Motor Manual,
(latest), 3/6. The Art op Jiu-Jitsu, 1/-
anc] 2/3. God and My Neighbor, 9d. How
to Read Faces, 2/-. Adventures op a Sydney
Barmaid, 1/-. Colonial Horse Doctor, 2/-.
French Polishing and Staining, 2/3. Photog-
raphy Self-taught, 1/6. How to Make
Sweets, Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks
with Coins, 1/3 posted. House Painting and
Papering, 2/3. Prop. Fowler’s Human Science,
12/6. Australian Pastrycooks’ Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/6 posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/6. How to Read Faces
and Heads, 2/-. Soldering, Brazing, etc.,
2/3 posted. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/9. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; 1/3 posted.
Camille, 1/6 posted. Piano Tuning and Repair-
ing, 2/3. Modern Etiquette, 1/3.- lloyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), .1/6. How
to Mesmerise, 2/-. Man from Snowy River,
4/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/3 posted. Parlor
Magic, 1/3 posted. The White Slave Traffic,
1/3. Every Man His Own Carpenter, 1/6.
Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator,
1/1. Secret History of the Court of Eng-
land, 2/-. Letter-Writer Up-"to-date, 1/6
posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, 1/6 posted. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-; 1/2
posted. Electricity Made Simple (new), 6/-.
The Confectioner’s Handbook, 1/6. Sexual
Knowledge for Everybody (with plates), 6/6
posted. How to Shine in Society. 1/6.
Cabinetmakers’ llandybook, 2/-. Complete
Bookkeeping, 2/6. Life of Deeming, illus-
trated, 1/1. How McDougall Topped the
Score, and Other Verses, 1/3. French
Self Taught, 1/3. Wannan’s Engine-
driver’s Guide. 6/-' posted. Decameron of Boc-
caccio, 4/6 each, posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 2/- posted. Women’s Secrets, 1/-
posted. Gay Life in Melbourne, !/-' posted.
Secrets of Beauty, Health and Long Life
(50,000 sold), 2/- posted. A Bed of Roses, 4/6.
All These Prices Post Paid.
Established 30 Years .
DON’T BE FOOLED
INTO PA YING MORE.
New Tricks with Cards, 1/6. Sappho, genu-
ine, 1/3. Old Busii Songs, 1/3 posted. Dr.
Milford's Midwife's Handbook, 92 practical
Send stamp for my
BIG ILLUSTEATED CATALOGUE
SENT ANYWHERE
' FOR THE ASKING.
illustrations, 3/'-. Aristotle, 5/-. Adam Lind-
say Gordon's Poems, 1/9. Practical Palm-
istry, 2/-. Guide to Auctioneering, 3/6.
Lovers' Letter-writer, 1/6. All Arout Incu-
bators, 2/3. Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed,
Key to All Degrees, New Edition, 1/9 posted.
Vest-pocket Dictionary, 1/6 posted. Tokology,
JO/6 posted. Ingersoli/s Works, 1/3. 2/-. IJow
to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 2/- posted.
Ciievasse’s Advice to a Wife, 3/9 posted. Bread
and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-boilers’ Assist-
ant, 2/-. The Wife’s Handbook, 1/3’ posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, 1/- posted. 1.00 New
Recitations and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness
and its Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster's Large
Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus.,
leather bound, niy price, 20s. post paid. (Why
pay 3 and 4 guineas?). Bootmaking and Repair-
ing, 2/3. Dynamos and Electric Motors, 2/3.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete
Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 12/6 posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, 1/- posted.
Henry Lawson's Humorous Verses. 1/3. The
Age of Reason, by Paine, 1/3 posted. Rasputin,
the Monk of Evil 2/9. One Day, 1/3 posted. The
Wizard’s Manual, 1/3. Speeches from the
Dock, 2/-. Life’s Shop Window, 2/-. Three
Weeks, 2/- posted. The Escaped Nun, 2/.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, the big book store, 67 869 Market Street, Sydney m>nly>.
W~ BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.


“ CHUNDER ” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
At the War.
' a 2
c
*&z
m
ffS&Sc
mg.
sm
VV
pmmo
m
■gfi
tm.
y\
r.
kx
IWa
w.
m
S?
■*&7<
$:4
%&i\S
WMI
f A
»
Si
•iirSSlgstfijife.*?
PS%SPSSS
Ss&l
X.
SegC:
K
*W
£$
Ss®ss
1 a 4^XA' ; '-'*~--' " v i
6i& :!
«a
MSS*
W 5&&
,7
/-y
a
///.
\
r- *
o',
.>•" jfSr&Z
as
m
7
p? 5
s£-*E:
45£&£
2SMO&
M
r .y
/>*£
\
f ,
Y#?.
m.
m
: -: 5
fgfm
TO
?X
7
-X$S
y
ms
ysasm
&
V'f?*
.7
%
m
x!
5M
£2®
\
„
y ■%
<~w
\\ x. \ \
1 \ v \ X \ ; *
* \ i
£jj» f*tv 6v* pj/»
Cobra,” Tsho. Boot Polish.
Ch under Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Fro m the U-boat
Tak 2ps the U.
In the Thames
The pirate lies,
And the old
White ensign flies
Proudly o’er the
German flag,
For the Huns are
“In the bag.”
All the ocean
Tracks are free
Now that “COBRA”
Cleaned the sea.


t
\®
k®
i®
16(6
Post
Free.
Let Finney’s Mail Order
SerYiee Send You These
STAR VALUES! X
It doesn’t matter where you live —you can take full advantage of
Finney’s Big Values —for Finney’s are no further from you than your
local post-office or posting-box.
WRITE TO-DAY FOR BIG CATALOGUE.
FINNEY’S PAY THE CARRIAGE.
THE “STAR-SPECIAL.”
Strong, hard-wearing Military-cut
Cossacks, with double soles, to give
extra-long wear.
Special Value, 16/6.
THE “STAR-VALUE.”
A smart, good-looking, comfortable-
wearing Glace Kid Derby Boot,
with strong, welted soles.
Special Value, 22/6.
Post
Free.
Queensland.
FENNEY ESEES & 1 Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
POVERTY
POINT
MOET &
CHANDON
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
“Galleryite”: Irene Brown, dead in Paris
from influenza, came to Australia with 11.
B. Irving’s co. eight years ago, and first
appeared as the Player Queen in “Hamlet” ;
but she had better chances as Julie in “The
Lyons Mail” and Lady Carew in “Dr. Jekyll
and Mr. Hyde.” After that she was lead-
ing lady in the Julius Knight co. which
played “Milestones” and “Bella Donna.”
Though not a brilliant actress, she was
clever in any character which suited her
style, and had the advantage of a handsome
presence. I think her Emily Ithead in
“Milestones” was her chief success, and the
title-role in “Bella Donna” and her Ann
Whitefield in “Man and Superman” her chief
failures.
Trallwm”: One of our “guarantors,”
since The Bulletin began to lift the veil
behind which Chautauqua “uplifts” a be-
nighted Australia, has confessed to me the
method of Chautauqua’s introduction to our
town. It was, as drama, as good as any one
of the uplifters’ stunts. The “organiser”
dropped upon the city, quite by accident, of
course, upon a council-meeting day. .The
city fathers were engrossed in the' matter
of the Mudd-street water-channel when the
door of the council chamber was pushed open
by a faltering hand, and a lady appeared;
a charming, pretty, alert young thing, chic,
up-to-the-minute, but shy—oh, so shy ! And
so confused at having burst in this way
upon a meeting of gentlemen! “Say,” she
lisped, “I’m sarry t’ butt in, but I’m look-
ing for the town hall. Perhaps naow I’m
here you won’t mind tell’n’ me where it is'
Pm awful sarry to butt in like this!”
Sixteen gallant gentlemen assured her in
one breath that she was welcome as a
ballet. This was. they said, the town hall;
and they were, they added, the town coun-
cil, and very much at her service. “Oh,
say!” she beamed, “but this is some luck,
lou’re just the verr’ people I’m want’n’ to
meet, sure. I’m an arganiser f’r Chautauqua,
and now I’m here I might’s well say what
I m here f’r. ...” And she did, at length—
and 32 of her guarantors were enrolled there
and then, and the other 28 as good as
promised.
“Norbell” ; The border difficulties at Wal-
langarra recall my first visit to that hamlet.
It was with Alfred Dampier in the
'nineties. The railway-station then had two
names; there was a board at each end of the
one labelled “Jennings.” the other
\v allangarra.” We had a lot of luggage, of
course, and one big box was suspiciously
heavy. The Customs man was inspecting
this, and we stood looking on. “What’s in
this case?” he demanded. “I think,” said
Dumpier, mildly, “it contains the chains
and leg-irons used in ‘The Term of ilis
Natural Life.’ ” Then the fool of the com-
pany explained: “Oh, no, Mr. Dumpier,
that’s the reserve box of day-bills and other
printing for the advance-agent!” I forget
how much extra duty the old man had to
pay, but I well remember some of his bitter
quotations about “a miserable world” and
meeting “a fool in the forest.” (P.S. —I was
the fool.)
“Sarg”: A number of Light Horsemen
were given permission to visit the famous
Solomon’s cedars at Lebanon. Arrived
there they decided to first visit the old mon-
astery. The abbot and monks received
them well and brought forth a very special
brand of grape juice. They were then shown
over the monastery. They patiently
absorbed its history in Arabic, and clapped
vigorously after a black-coated Caruso had
chanted. In return a singing Billjim struck
up, with great solemnity, a chantey describ-
ing the callousness of a sailor named Bill, the
rest joining heartily in the couplet that did
service as a chorus. Something catchy in
it got hold of the monks, and, though
they didn’t understand a word, they were
soon da-da-da-ing to the tune. This greatly
encouraged the songster, and he told the
abbot he would teach the monks this great
Australian national hymn. The abbot
accepted the offer and the song was sung
many times, (he tutor urging them to learn
the words to ensure the wealth of pathos and
beauty being retained ! We left them yo-
king and blowing like a lot of shellbacks'in
a pub.
“J.D.”: Eileen Fleury, who hopped or
to the Australian merry-go-round as a young
songandance dapper half a dozen years ago,
was recently on a good circuit in Texas;
also, she had been discovered by some
wealthy Irish-Australian relatives, who were
giving her and her accompanying mother
no end of a good time. Los Angeles and
the movies were then the girl’s immediate
objective, but a later message announced that
both she and her ma were down with ’flu,
and still in Texas. Miss Fleury’s male
parent, Michael Fleury, is one of three or
four Tasmanian brothers (Andrew and John
aie in Ilobart) whose work as decorative
artists shines in a good many Australian
buildings, including St. Pat’s Cathedral
Melbourne.
UNDER SUSPICION.
“Poor old Johnny mashed his own wife. She
had a new hat on, and he didn't recog-
nise her through her mask.”
“Notv, I wonder if that is why Will is so
against me shopping while this influenza
is about?”
“Jack Canuck” : Place, New York Hippo-
drome, packed. Time, 1918. Speaker,
Harry Lauder. This is how the com-
edian finished his address, in the course
of which he had told of his soldier-
son and of their parting in Sydney:
“Australia, how I Iqve it! Australia, where
the sun shines, the birds sing and the flowers
bloom ! Australia, the land of the Golden
Wattle—Australia, where I hope to end my
days!”
In “Jack and Jill” comedian Joe Brennan
has a wheeze to the effect that the nearest
he ever got to royalty was when he was
stung by a queen bee. Before the theatres
closed Brennan received a letter from, an
indignant mother, who pointed out that queen
bees do not own a sting, and she was surprised,
not to say horrified, at Brennan handing out
such a piece of misinformation to children
who attended a matinee for instruction as
well as amusement.
The annual report of Adelaide Repertory
Theatre deals mainly with gain and loss on
the personal side. The brilliant “juvenile,”
Douglas Walsh, died just after returning
from the war; Wadmore has resigned the
treasurersliip; Nave, a fine player in char-
acter-parts, has dropped out altogether ; and
the loss of Lady Galway’s steady support
will count for a good deal. On the other
hand, the reliable Wilfred Neill is back from
France; and Herbert Walsh (brother of
Douglas) has joined up and become business
manager. Literary lawyer Ronald Finlay-
son, a partner of Isbister, Iv.C., is still
chairman.
A DOUBLE CATASTROPHE.
HE : “I like that leadin' lady. They say she
made a most unhappy marriage."
SITE ( absent-mindedly): “Yes, yes; so did
her husband.”
“The Betrothal,” the mucli-di'scussed sequel
to Maeterlinck’s “Blue Bird,” has at last
been produced in N’York. The idea is a
variation of the old one. Tyltyl, the hero,
now a mature 17, goes about the world look-
ing for a sweetheart. There are six maidens
willing enough, but he finds the; right one
only on getting back home, in a seventh, the
Neighbor’s Child. A bit over th‘e heads of
children, yet rather too childish for grown-
ups.
Died last week at Bexley, near Sydney,
Alick Edward, for 30 years prominent in the
concerts of the Highland Society. A son,
D. B. Edward, is secretary to the Australian
Commissioner in New York.
“75”: Animal-impersonator Hassan has
been spending his vacation in a private hos-
pital, where a surgeon extracted from his leg
something novel in the way of a tumor. The
growth was regarded as so remarkable that
Hassan has been on view to interested sur-
geons. When he learned that one of them
was going to write an essay on the tumor for
a medical journal. Hassan saw the oppor-
tunity of an exclusive ad. and suggested that
a photograph of him as the donkey in “Jack
and Jill” w T ould add to the interest of the
article. He’s still wondering why the
doctor turned him down.
“Phineas” : Dan Barry always believed in
keeping well up to date, if not with plays,
with authors of plays. It was not neces-
sary for Dan’s purpose that Dan’s dramatist
should ever have written a play. If, in
Dan’s opinion, a map loomed sufficiently
large in the public eye to warrant the belief
that a play by him would draw, that was
sufficient. Charles Stewart Parnell, who
probably was never guilty of writing a play,
was Dan’s great dramatist and “Home Rule”
his masterpiece. The masterpiece, when
produced, bore a remarkable resemblance to
<J Tho Colleen Bawn” and other Boucicault
dramas. His trump-card, however, was
“East Lynne,” which could be seasoned to.
suit any atmosphere and any plot. While
he was the lessee of iNlelbourne Alexandra
(now Her Majesty’s) the Dacre tragedy
happened in Sydney. The unlucky couple
had been billed to appear in “Tjje Silence of
Dean Maitland.” Dan saw his ’chance. He
went to Cole’s Book. Arcade and bought two
copies of the novel, “The Silence of Dean
Maitland.” saw a freelance journalist-friend
and negotiated a deal. The “dramatist” was
to sit up all night arid produce a four-act
drama on “The Silence” by 10 o’clock the
following morning for the sum of £5. He
was permitted ' the use of unlimited paste
and scissors, the two copies of the novel
being furnished for the express purpose.
The “dramatist” got through on time,
delivered the' goods, and got the fiver. But
for some reason never disclosed the sudden
atrocity was not staged.
“Norbell” : It had been a disastrous tour, .
and what with the heat and the drought and
the granite indifference of the outbackers,
our co. was on its last legs when we drifted
into Goat-an’-Galah. Then the rain came
in floods and everyone seemed happy. Ex-
cept us—we knew it meant the end of the
story for us. We played “Uncle Tom” to
less than the rent that night, and we
couldn't have got out of the place if one of
our crowd hadn’t had an unexpected remit-
tance from home and generously lent it to
our manager. The hall-keeper at Goat-an’-
Galah was a Methodist Shylock who
wouldn’t abate sixpence of the rent, but he
was a philanthropist compared with Seadder
of the lied Gum Hotel, who shamelessly
overcharged us for everything. When we
boarded the train next day we all gave a
fervent sigh, and just then we heard Scadder
on the platform remark to the hall-keeper,
who had come to see that we didn’t levant
with any of his home-made scenery: “I
don’t hold with these ’ere traveilin’ troupes
coinin’ to Goat-an’-Galah. They take all
the ready money outer a town!”
“Topical triumph” of this English panto,
season :
Go to bed early, and save your coal;
Snuggle up clo.-e together
In the wintry weather,
When the stormy winds do blow-ow-ow-ow-ow-ov,-
ow.
Go to bed early and save your coal,
Snuggle up like a sausage in a roll;
Don’t be ashamed of the place that you were born
in.
Go to bed early, and save your coal.
“First Old Man”: “Stargazer’s” yarn (B.
6/2/T9) reminds me of a similar unre-
hearsed descent into the orchestral trench.
One of the comedians —a member of a
troupe of acrobats —was especially proud of
a “walk-round” and exit from the stage
in big boots. One night—the anniversary
of his birthday—instead of walking off at
the wing, as usual, he made a bee-line for
the conductor, and pitched plump over. The
item was not repeated. The comedian came
up smiling and unhurt, but the maestro was
laid up for two months with an injury to
his kneecap, caused by a blow from the
acrobat’s boot.
“Snell” : Samson is not the only man who
lias dealt single-handed with a lion. The
Fitzgerald Bros, had a discdlored rouse-
about named Rastus, who had earned him-
self a reputation as the most dunder-headed
thing outside * the wombat’s cage, yet he
proved himself the only man in the circus
capable of rising to an urgent emergency.
By reason of being in one compartment of
his cage when a careless attendant believed
him to be in the other, Phar, the big lion,
on one occasion stepped into the open and
went at once in quest of lunch —hot lunch
for choice. Phar had an evil reputation.
He was not liked in his cage ; at large, he
was detested. While a lot of people were
seeking safe places in order to think out
what should be done, Phar took to Rastus’s
blue dog Joes as something in the nature of
a hors d'ceuvre, and was getting away with
him over against a fence when Rastus was
seen to go at him with a waggon-pole.
Apparently Rastus’s first intention was to
smite the lion in the interests of his faithful
hound; but suddenly a brighter idea pre-
sented itself. He jabbed the end of the pole
under the bottom rail of the fence on the
other s;de of the lion, risking being made
the next course with bland composure; then
bringing the pole across the beast’s neck, he
swung himself on the free end, using Phar’s
neck as a fulcrum. By virtue of his position
Rastus could exert a pressure of some tons,
and he did. Phar nearly tore the core out
of the earth in his struggles, but the lone
nigger held him, and eventually the Nubian
was roped, and restored to his cage, with a
crick in his neck and a contrite heart, plus
one blue dog.
Drury Lane panto., always strong on the
musical side, included this year a blend of
National Anthems, in which “The Watch on
the Rhine” tried to butt -in, only to be
smothered by the anthems of Britain, France
and the U.S.A., all thundering together, with
“Rule Britannia” thrown in to help.
“OUT.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
I’d put the new act in rehearsal;
I’d married my partner, too;
The best song-an’-dance turn ever
Was Betsy, billed as “Belle Vue.’
I’d just booked the date for our opening—•
A hit we’d have been, who could doubt ?
A riot! the rage !
But the ’flu took the stage,
And Betsy and I are “out” !
Hard luck! Can you beat it? A knock-out!
And us with the goods at last—
A turn to make everyone’s fortune,
And the door of the show shut fast 1
So we’re walking about doing nothing,
And getting in salary “nowt” ;
You can’t call us sacked,
Yet we can’t stage the act,
’Cos Betsy and I are “out.”
“Until further notice” we’re “resting”—•
God knows when the rag will rise,
And we’ve got our landlady guessing;
You should see the queer look in her eyes !
And “Belle Vue and Dante” (your humble)
Are putting their props up the spout.
It’s weeks since we played,
But our board must be paid,
Though Betsy and I are “out.”
It hurts ; and though “Belle Vue and Dante”
On any bill stand for a name,
The public don’t, seemingly, miss us—
I s’pose it’s all part of the game.
If they knew the great act I’ve invented,
“Re-open the halls!” they would shout;
But dark are the shows,
And hundreds of pros.
And Betsy and I are “out” !
VICTORIA.
EARDLEY TURNER.
THE REAL DANGER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
There bide with us and Mrs. Brown
Just half a score of goodly pros.
Who had assorted grips in town,
Bat Fate and ’Flu conspired to close .
The •■theatres, ar.d actors’ faces
Are not in their accustomed places. |
They watch the “houses,” now so dark ;
Their eyes display a touching doubt.
They float alone across the park.
At Mrs. Brown’s they moon about
Like Coleridge’s drifting ship,
Or little chickens with the pip.
There’s Westmond—-he’s a haunted wretch,
And finds grim terror in the ’flu.
“For three montfij' maybe at a stretch,”
Said he, “these people all must do
Without Will Westmond, sir. Be hrew it —
]Vhat if they get accustomed to it
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


FIGHTING THE INFLUENZA
THE FOUR PRINCIPAL FACTORS EMPLOYED
In fighting the menace that has been
threatening the people of Australia
during the last few weeks, four weapons
have been principally employed, viz.:
The MASK, to cover the face and Keep the
germs out; a VACCINE-, with which the public
has been inoculated to increase resistance;
many Kinds of DISINFECTANTS, to Kill
floating' g'erms; and lastly, but by no means
least, various REMEDIES to Keep the system
free from g'erms, clean and in order.
It can be said that, in this particular, Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills have
played an important part without any booming, such as was done by many
to use the influenza epidemic to attract attention to their commodities, for
which they were of little use. Straight announcements were made advising
the public to keep their systems in order by taking an occasional dose of
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills together with 10 grains of Aspirin or Quinine,
but on no account to try to doctor themselves should they show any signs
ot the real Influenza, but to send for the doctor and to go to bed.
yhis advice has been followed to a wonderful extent. Tens of thousands of bottles of Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills have been sold since the epidemic started. One retail company alone has passed across its
counters 5000 bottles in thirty days. Many wholesale houses have exceeded this quantity in Sydney.
Melbourne and Adelaide. More than a ton of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills was sold during February
There are about 2200 pills to the pound (anyone can work it out), which makes over five million pills
sold during February in Australia, or at the rate of about a pill for every man, woman and child on the
continent. The wonderful character of this sale is further emphasised when it is known that no sales-
men were employed whatsoever. Orders came through the mail, or over the telegraph and telephone wires,
and were in response to the genuine demands of the trade. It can, therefore, be seen that Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills have played their part, as already stated, with the Mask, Inoculation and Disinfectants,
in fighting this epidemic.
It is not claimed they are better than anything else, made for similar purposes, but it is claimed that
they are far better than most and equal to the best made in this or any other country—and why not?
The Proprietors have been making pills for nearly a century, and for twenty-five years they have been
in constant use in Australia. DR. morse’s Indian root pills are like Ford cars. It is quantity production
that makes them possible at the price. If the formula were taken to a chemist he would charge ss. to
make it up, and there would be no guarantee that the ingredients had not lost their efficiency. That
cannot happen in manufacturing Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills. The ingredients are bought in large
quantities and rapidly used up, and the activity of this pill is certain. They are sold to the public at a
shilling or a little more, subject to local conditions, and in any case the public gets good value. These
are the reasons for their immense popularity, which can be summed up in the two words “ Absolutely Dependable.”


Cf'
ut
CttJlScryhML
SYDNEY OR BRISBANE.
Columbia
Dry Batteries
Renowned for Faithful
Service
If you need quick power for the ignition
Bystem of truck or tractor,lose no time in
ordering Columbia Batteries. They’ll
renew the spark of life like a flash. For
Columblasareeager with power. Their
energy flows hot—they make things go.
Suitable for heavy or light work. Columbia*
have higher voltage a.id amperage than wet
cells; no liquid to spill; no glass jars to break.
Special attention is given to the all-important
detail of packing for export.
The Fahnestock Spring Clip Binding Post, shown
in the illustration, is a Columbia feature tl.r.t
Bells batteries. With this Binding Post it is simply
a matter of pressing down the
No. 6
p«f«.(.<* s*pl.mb*r 6.191 Q
dry cell
Mfria* FOR US.NJOf/
GENERAL IGNITION
*nufactured by n
SAnc.LucAßß(wcay
J CUVUAND. OM:b. D.S.A 'U
spring and
i nserti r.g
the wire
and the
connection
is nude.
Dealers —lmmediate de-
liveries can be made. Write
for catalogues and details.
National Carbon
Company, Inc.
Export Department
Cleveland,Ohio,U.S.A.
Ccblo Address:
"Carbon Cleveland"
E
E
W<%
31 o’
NATIONAL
Motor Oils
It matters not what the
conditions of service, nor
the type of engine con-
cerned, • to lubricate with
National Motor Oils is to
assure the zenith of engine,
efficiency.
National Motor Oils are
of unvarying, high-grade
quality—clean, even-flow-
tug, and possessing high
flash-point and remark-
able viscosity.
Obtainable all
Garages and
Storekeepers
in 1-gal. tins, 4-gal. tins,
and barrels. Ask also for
National Motor Greases.
National Oil Co.
Ltd.,
4 Bridge Street.
Sydney.
James Wardle
and Co.,
Adelaide.
You Must Know Something
About Wireless!
If you are an Engineer,
If you are an Electrician,
If you are a Telegraphist,
If you are a Seaman,
If you are an Aviator,
If you are a Lawyer.
If you are a Consultant,
If you are a Teacher,
If you are a Student,
If you want General Knowledge,
If you want to Travel,
If you want to be Up=to=date,
If you intend to be an Operator,
If you wish to Experiment,
If you are going to have a Station,
If you wish to join a Wireless Club.
Every Man, Woman or Child will derive benefit from a knowledge of the
most wonderful, most mysterious, most useful, most humane invention of
all the ages.
Our simple and complete courses of instruction will interest you, help you
and qualify you, in your own home or in our School.
Write to-day explaining your position and your aims, and we will tell you
what course to take.
Marconi School of Wireless,
97 Clarence Street, SYDNEY,
And 422-424 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
ZINC
HIGH-GRADE ZINC DUST
Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAND
Containing about 90.1)5% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
BRAND
Containing about 08.75% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various grades.
SOLE SELLING Of Q AIM ISATION -for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS:
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited,
“Collins House,” 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
HOTEL ESPLANADE,
PERTH’S PREMIER HOTEL.
Facing tlie Swan River and Indian Ocean. An ideal situation.
Close to Post Office, Ranks, etc. ALE MODERN CONVENIENCES,
M. A. BEAVOR, Proprietress.
C/VC-
HIGH-GRADE SHEET METALS
BRAND fc-A-c- BRAND
BRASS, COPPER, NICKEL SILVER
ALUMINIUM, GILDING METAL
MANUFACTURED BY
THE COLONIAL AMMUNITION CO. LTD.
GORDON STREET, FOOTSCRAY, Vic.
Obtainable from all the leading Hardware Houses in the Commonwealth.
SALES OFFICES;
VICTORIA—CoIIins House, Collins Street, Melbourne - - Phone Central 1995
NEW SOUTH WALES-58 Pitt Street, S'dney - - - Phone City 2677
QUEENSLAND—CampbeII’s Buildings, Creek Street, Brisbane Phone 2382
O-XVQ-
ijjr c^-cld=>
:<ZZrTcXo||(|)|
>'\n
l E. L.
I JNJ o
V* "S. L.A jNj rs*<s ' *
O w o
urKMrtt*
*l*
A Mother’s Advice to
Her Daughter.
“Start right. Yes, my dear, I’ve tried all Bakin;,
Powder, Soda and S'our Milk and other substitutes, u
none can take the place of
BRELAND’S
Baking Powder
for making good, wholesome, appetising foods. Remember
this when making scones, cakes, pastry, biscuits, muffins, et .
hollow this practical advice. ,
IRELAND’S BAKING POWDER always gives good return,
because it is pure, carefully mixed in correst propoi
Always uniform quality and reliable.
Ask your Grocer for a tin to-day. Sold everywhere.
J. IRELAND LTD., Newcastle
Theatre Royal Propbietary Co. (Mel-
bourne) : -
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Diviilemls. Oft', serves, serves.
June, ’ll.. £777 24 p.c. = £6OO £177 £1455
Dec., ’ll.. 1709 24 „ „ 000 £706 403 1858
June, ’12.. 1100 24 •> „ 000 350 150 2008
Deficit.
Dec., ’12.. 1096 24 ~ „ 600 2050 146
Reserves.
June, ’13.. 1580 24 ~ „ 600 486 494 348
Dec., ’13.. 1775 24 ~ „ 600 891 284 632
June, ’14.. 1539 24 „ ~ TOO 450 489 1121
Dec., ’ll.. 1423 24 ~ ~ 600 450 373 1494
June, ’15.. 1447 24 ~ ~ 000 450 397 1891
Dec., ’15.. 1799 3} ~ „ 900 450 449 2340
June, ’lO.. 1315 3i ~ „ 900 300 115 2455
Dec., ’16.. 1507 Sj „,, 900 300 307 2762
June, ’17.. 1472 3 :i ~ „ 900 300 272 3034
Dec.. ’17.. 1548 3$ ~ ~ 900 300 348 3382
June,’lB.. 1611 3J „ „ 900 300 411 3793
Dec., ’lB.. 2326 3 1 ~ „ 900 465 961 4754
About £3500 lots lately been spent on altera-
tions ; and partly as a result of that, no
doubt, rent receipts for the half-year were
£3666 as against £3OlO in the corresponding
half of 1917. The additions mean, however,
a larger writing-off for depreciation. Still,
as the next comparison shows, the co. has
made the improvements without going back
very far : —•
Dec., TO. Dec.,’l7. Dcc.,’lB.
Assets other than buildings,
freeholds, plant, etc. . . .41749 .478856 £13,789
Less liabilities . . . . 51 811 6,896
£698 £8045 £6,893
Accumulation of liquid assets is necessary ;
for the greater part of the fixed property is
leasehold. If, however, it goes on accumu-
lating money for the next seven or eight
years as it has been doing for the past seven,
the co. will be able to then sit down con-
tentedly and wait for compound interest to
pile up an amount equal to the capital by
the time the lease expires. Even though
money will have to be spent now and then
on the premises, this seems to hold out a
very good hope of much better dividends
before long.
The Australian Knitting Mills, Ltd., and
P. 11. Pearce and Son, wool-buyers, both of
Melbourne, have joined forces with an Eng-
lisli co, to manufacture wool-tops, knitting
yarns and, ultimately, fill kinds of woollen
goods locally. The establishment of the
Yarra Falls Spinning Co. Pty., Ltd. (capi-
tal £200,000 in £1 shares), was well in hand
when the war upset arrangements. . How-
ever, the co. has taken over an extensive
wool-scouring plant which Pearce and Son
had installed at Abbotsford, and a commodi-
ous factory has since been erected to house
combing and spinning machinery. The co.
anticipates combing 175,0001 b. wool-tops and
producing 100,0001 b. spun yarn each month,
including highest-grade cashmeres and wor-
steds. F. F. Robinson is managing-director,
while W. L. Baillieu nestles among the
Pearces and old Knitting Mills directors.
The Bulletin bestows its blessing.
The Speck Govt. Printing Dept, had been
going five years when the State’s fiscal year
closed. At that date the accounts showed
£13,039 invested in the business, plant (after
writing off 10 p.c. p.a.) representing £7795,
stock £1754, sundry debtors £2331 and cash
surplus £1759. Gross receipts for 1918 were
£20,324, which gave a gross profit of £5676.
After paying 5 p.c. interest on capital, and
allowing for depreciation ard all other
charges, a net profit of £1776 remained—
eoual to 8 p.c. on the turnover and 13 p.c. on
the capital. Whether the figures are worth
anything depends upon the prices charged
for the work done for the various depart-
ments.
“Observe”: The 2000 gallons of oil ob-
tained in the last seven or eight years from
(he Papuan fields lias cost the Commonwealth
Government £5O per gallon, or a total of
£lOO,OOO. Bungling has helped to make
developments expensive. So-called “out-of-
date” machinery has been replaced by “up-
to-date” plant four or five times. The last
bore was carried to a depth of over 2000 ft.
A new bore is being sunk to a greater depth
with machinery which cost £BOOO and
which took four years to complete and
assemble. Parts were ordered in the U.S.A.
and other parts in Australia. When deliv-
ered on the field they could not be assembled.
Two experts were engaged from America to
work out this puzzle. They did practically
no work on the field, and both returned to
America disgusted. The latest proposal is
for the development of the field by the
British and Australian Governments com-
bined. Hughes and Cook have submitted a
scheme. If this is accepted it is probable
that real machinery will be sent from
Britain to test the field in a thorough way.
Carlo’s Gap Collieries, Ltd., which holds
coal, limestone and iron-ore leases on the
Mudgee (N.S.W.) line, is preparing to tredt
stone. Plant has arrived on the scene, two
boilers being now in position. In addition
to turning out lime, the co. intends to go in
for bricks and coke. A. E. Foster has the
job of general overseer.
Melbourne-owned Elsmore (N.S.W.)
picked out another sixpenny last half-year
and then had to wait for water. As usual,
costs were high—over 134 d.: but a decent
water supply, which will allow the three
plants to work and reduce overhead charges,
will bring that down. The behavior of the
tin market must, nevertheless, be giving these
New England concerns a nasty feeling under
the waistcoat.
* * * *
Gwalia Central (W.A.) is still reaching
out for new mines. At Leonora it has now
taken on approval the Rajah and Dawn of
Hope leases, both of which have given good
outputs in the past. Rut these do not guar-
antee good returns in the future.
Another Tassy tin show that still has a
luck left in it is the Stanley Reward. With
much labor a profit of £630 was collected
last half-year, but cash will have to be forth-
coming to get the lode opened up deeper or
to pick up the new claim that is needed to
put the co. on its feet.


10Z
Off All London
Tailoring Prices
Although prices in the woollen market show no signs
of falling, the London Stores, after a careful analysis
of their stock, announce to-day
The First “ After-War ”
Reductions on Tailoring.
London Suits to Order are now offered at 10 per cent,
reduction all around. .
To perfectly understand this position just glance at the
scale showing the usual price, the reduced price, and
the saving you make.
London Suits to Order:
Usual
Price
£3 10/- £4/4/- £-5/5/-
Lcss 10% 7/- 8/6 10/6
756 94 6
63
Were it necessary to buy these materials in the market
to-day it would be impossible to sell them at anywhere
near the reduced prices we are now asking. The fabrics
were secured early before prices went so high and
The offer ends when
present stocks sell out.
But, after all, the main feature about London Tailoring
is not so much the moderate prices as the way it is
made. You will like the graceful lapels, the snug-
fitting. collar and the smooth fit. Kach coat is built on
a foundation of haircloth and canvas. That’s the
reason why the style and shape put in by London
cutters and tailors “keeps” to the last.
Any risk is ours. If you are not satisfied with the
finished suit we will refund your money. Patterns
and Self-measurement Forms are ready now for
sending. Post the Coupon TO-Dx\Y.
a
m
■■Bl
fifc* ■
m
: ■ ■ '
m
m
I
"5
• •
m
*
®I
fee
■
■
■* i
am
%
I
d
m
&
4.1
n#
■
: •
P
SSPv
save 10 Per Cent,
on your next
Suit. Post
Coupon for
Patterns to-day.
Ut >v,
£>.
V.
U
m
mmm,
#■ *
Oui* only -address f >f> Australia.
&
%


Va
J}>3{&iery
CPECIALIZED
v *' methods in desi&n-
in& and knitting pro-
duce in Luxite Hosiery,
a closely woven tex-
ture of remarkable
durability and re-
splendent beauty un-
surpassed for ''the
money by any other
hosiery in the world.
Don't accept substitutes and think
you have “Luxite.” Insist upon
the genuine. If your dealer is
enable to supply you, write us.
Walter Cathro Pty. Ltd.
York Street, SYDNEY.
ITZ’S
CIDER
KITTS
PURE SPARKLING APPLE JUICE
“BOTTLES OF JOY.’
Every glassful of “Kitz’s” is a positive
thirst quencher; every bottle is a bottle
°£ joy and health. Have you ever had
a longing for a drink that would
definitely quernh your thirst? Just try
“Kitz’s” Cider. It quenches and revives,
puts “pep” in you, and is healthful
and nutritious, too.
Get the Kitz Cider Habit—
It’s a Habit that won’t get you
In Baby Bottle.s at Hotels and Cafes—
Quarts and Pints at ;tores.
agents—
SYDNEY: Tucker & Co. Ltd., Caldwell’s
Wines Ltd.
BRISBANE: Burns, Philp & Co.
TOWNSVILLE: Burns, Philp & Co.
CAIRNS”: Burns, Philp & Co.
GERALDTON: A. H: Mountain & Co
i ROCKHAMPTON: J. M. Headrick &'co.
ADELAIDE: W. P. Auld & Sons Ltd.
PERTH: Philp Coyle.
HOBART: Ferguson & Co.
LAUNCESTON: John McKenzie & Co.
•HUNTS
MOSQUITOES
A Marv’ejxous
discovery.
Gives absolute
PROTECTION <
FROM THE PEST.
Nothing else-
EIKE IT.
get
some.
I/d
> Per bottle, all Chemists
' and Stores or
2A
to any part
of Australia
from H.C.Price. Ch&fswootl W.S.W. P. | ,p_
DRAWS FROM THE BLOOD
THE POISONS
which cause Bad Legs, Sore Feet, Car-
buncles, Boils,Varicose Ulcers, Bunions
Eczema, Piles, etc., an;l those arising from
Insect and Mosquito Bites.
1 he Proprietors of Grasshopper Ointment
nave an absolute confidence in its unsiu-
pas ed merits. They know it to be a safe
and perf ct cure for all sk n and blood ail-
ments; and the va=t number of t stimonials
received prove it to be. Grassh pper Oint-
ment positivefydraws the pc) ons which pro-
ou e these maladies out of the system As
an aperient, liver medicine and blood purifier,
the Grasshopper Pills are equally effective,
and should b=> taken in conjunction with the
Ointment. Sold by all Drug Stores and
Chemists througliou; the Commonwealth.
f
SKF
Hu
f* CEO
Why the Engineer should
specify S.K.F. Self-
Aligning Bali Bearings.
S.K.F. Ball-bearing Steel is carefully inspected and
tested on delivery from the steel works.
• The utmost care is exercised in the selection and
calibration of every ball, and in the determining of its
hardness and homogeneity.
The processes of hardening and tempering the bearing
races are closely controlled. Only the highest skill is
employed in machining, grinding and finishing—-thus
ensuring invariably perfect accuracy.
S.K.F. Ball Bearings are so designed that they ate
instantaneously and automatically self-aligning.
S.K.F. Ball Bearings give longer service than any
other ’bearings. They will “stand up” under the
hardest conditions, and will maintain their accuracy
throughout.
ALWAYS SPECIFY S.K.F.
GARDNER,
W£RN & GO.,
Power & Light Engineers,
MELBOURNE: 384 City Road.
(Showrooms): 369 Flinders Street.
SYDNEY : 225 Pitt Street
BRISBANE: 367 Queen Street.
m
fills Its
la.sk.
Canno
Cleans I
ILeguia
British
\&Pm
elf.
f
m
1
RUY the British White Stocking
to-day—“ Jason ” Elite—of all
Drapers.
Try the cooling, skin-soothing effect of this
Jason hot-weather wear, a very special
line bearing the “Jason” Brand, which guarantees
the finest, silkiest “ finish ” ever put on a stocking.
Wear “ Jason because of their quality, their entirely
British make, and the satisfaction ensured by the
brand—
Quality Stockings & Socks for Ladies, Children & Men.
Illustration shows the “ Jason “ Elite Stocking*
Finest woven plain mercerised lisle leg, ankle &
instep and all-wool 3-in. double top. Specially
strengthened wool foot ; in champagne, black & white.
Drapers and Outfitters everywhere. In case of difficulty write to
JASON HOSIERY CO., LEICESTER, ENG. (7 'J
THE PALACE HOTEL
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE HEADING HOTEL OF PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
JOHN T. GLOWREY, Proprietor.
Public Notice.
SOLDIERS’ DIARIES.
HP HE Mitchell Library is desirous of pur-
J- _ chasing for the State Archives original
diaries of Australian Soldiers taking part
in the Great War. Good prices will be
paid for good material. Address Mitchell
Library, Macquarie Street, Sydney.
For the Trustees.
W. 11. IFOULD,
Principal Librarian and Secretary.
Public Notice.
SPECIAL OPPORTUNITY
'p'Oß energetic sales manager to secure exclusive
selling rights for wonderful new Adding Machine.
Retails £2 —does work of £6O machine. Auto-
matically adds, subtracts, multiplies and divides.
Whirlwind in speed. Infallibly accurate. Written
Five-Year Guarantee. Extraordinary opportunity
to establish permanent business with unusual profits.
Write or cable for full particulars.
CALCULATOR CORPORATION,
Grand Rapids (Mich.), U.S.A.
SAVOY HOTEL,
Hay Street, Perth, West Australia.
PERTH’S LEADING HOTEL.
Recommended to Visitors from Eastern States.
Tariff: £4/4/- per week, 12/0 per day.
J. M. QUIGLEY, Manager.
“Musketoon”: I nominate the champion
wage-earning sow in Australia. She is a
Berkshire-China and owned by D. O’Keeffe,
of Numba (N.S.W.). For the past four
years the sale of her numerous families has
returned the owner £9O a year. She had
eight litters in four years, the total pigleis
being 100, of which 84 were reared and 74
were sold for a total of £317.
“Gleniris”: Apparently the Vie. farmer,
slow as he may be in getting into action, is
moving at a much better pace than the
cocky-pals of T. J. A. Fitzpatrick, who
declares (B. 13/2/’l9) that there is a
“corner” in chaff-cutting plants in the Ma
State, with the result that many hay-crops
must be sold unchaffed to the speculator, “at
his own price.” In Vic. the Farmers’ Union
has had co-operative plants established in
various places by negotiation with the Pro-
ducers’ Association, the terms (apart from
running-costs) being merely that the farm-
ers who put their hay through the outfits
agree to sell the chaff, when they choose to
sell it, through the V.P.A.; and the cash
results have so far proved most satisfactory
to Cocky.
llow the Mundic Miner (N.Q.) said
farewell:—
The Mundic Miner has gone bung for the third
and last time and will never rise again. Adver-
tisers, subscribers and others who owe us money are
respectfully requested to do us a favor at their
earliest. An revoir.
“Umntu”: When Britain has time to
inquire into some of the side-shows of the
war, a few awkward questions are likely
to be asked about the picnic at Dar-es-
Salaam. The East African campaign was
conducted with great vigor until Von Lettow
was driven into Portuguese territory about
a year ago; then, apparently, somebody
thought it was time to have a military holi-
day. At any rate, Van Deventer, who was
in charge (he had done some dashing work
in S.W. Africa and in the early days of the
East African campaign, so his new tactics
were all the more inexplicable), collected a
huge staff at Dar-es-Salaam. 1000 miles from
any sphere of operation, and Von Lettow, the
distant guerilla, was able to get his proper
rest. _ "Had half Van Deventer’s staff been
sent into the field the elusive old German
, might have been captured months' ago.
Instead, he had the honor of surrendering
after the armistice was signed, on British
territory, 96 miles south of - Abercorn,
Northern Rhodesia. Which seems to show
that he wasn’t being harried excessively.
Melbourne Age :—•
Young Girl can share nice comf. front R., also
young working-man. .
That shows you. Young men so scarce that
they’re actually cutting him up into blocks
and advertising subdivision sales.
Another drop in the sea of trouble has
been provided by the Returned Soldiers and
Citizens’ Political Federation, Vic., which
intends to “organise industrial unions of
soldiers, friends, rejected volunteers and
loyal unionists, with the object of fighting
official Labor,” and, incidentally, of obtaining
preference in employment to returned men
■over eligibles who didn’t go to the war. The
Federation was fur a fortnight associated
with the. National Federation, but withdrew
because it was found that its interests could
1 not be served by that body. The concern
has received a definite statement from the
irades Hall Council that ‘the man who
stayed behind and helped to keep the in-
dustries of this country together is not going
to be prejudiced by the Trades Hall Coun-
cil.” As this means that the Council claims
i equal chances for the non-warring eligible
and the returned man, there is justifica-
tion for a body to protect soldiers’ interests.
All the same, the splitting up of the workers
m any craft is very regrettable. The
boss gets the benefit of it in the long run.
The curse of voluntaryism will come home
to roost for many a day yet. Under the
other system no such trouble could arise.
“John N. P.” rings up:—
A casual remark that telephone's in Tokyo were
selling around £250 each caused the Australian
salesman who was in Japan to sit up sud-
denly. Say that again,’* said he. We repeated
the remark. “The people at home wouldn’t believe
it; write and tell ’em all about it.” So here is
the story. The current market value of the garden
variety of telephone in Tokyo is anything between
2000 and 2500 yen. Before the war (that is, before
Japan began to really live) the little instrument
could be bought for 700 or 800 yen, the price
always being influenced by the number—odd or
even, easy or hard to remember. The service is
run by the Government, and at its inception a
generation ago there was an exhibition of the
lack of foresight that is common in Japanese in-
dustry. The mistake was then made of transferring
the annual profits to the national treasury. Had
the national treasury continued to grow fatter and
fatter all would, doubtless, have been well/ But
in the years to fellow Japan was to become poor
indeed and the telephone receipts continued to
flow into the national treasury. The service being
thus always starved, a money-raising practice was
initiated. This was for those desiring connection
to register with the bureau, and deposit a fee
of 15 yen. Then they wait, these good Tokvo folk.
Sometimes they wait patiently for seven years". Over
50,000 of them are waiting to-day. It was not long
before the Tokyo business man saw an opportunity
to start a netv industry—he began to buy up tele-
phones. Years pass, flie “system” gets' worse
instead of better; the telephone broker, or, in reality,
the capitalist behind him, has a large vested inter-
est in the telephone; he buys all he can secure, and
pricei steadily rise. When there were rumors that
prices would be reduced by arranging for ample sup-
plies, the brokers appealed to authority for the
protection of their interests. The Government long
ago saw the money-making possibilities of the situa-
tion. But the brilliant financial stroke came when
they inaugurated the “quick-installation” system. In
atVnterVr ’/TT inStruments *0 the old depositors
or so ml l : the . bureau is sued periodically a hundred
sK monttv 63 QUiCk installati °u (that is, within
l on Payment of an additional sum,
150 to 300 * W tf 6XperienCe ’ ranged from
JsVtS’ figure - And the broter


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel, —City 4246,
4247,
4SIO.
2,4, 0 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
via
the Allied Route,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, APRL 2,
SONOMA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Telephone: City 2282. 44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY
Bunking, Public Companies, Ac.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The lion. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
lit. (Chairman); WILLIAM DAVIES; E. 11.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ; Hon. Sir ROBERT IMIILP,
K.C.M.G. ; Hon. A. J. TIIYNNE, M.L.C. I
Gknkkai. Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Cilice: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St:, E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 247,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,069 4 5
All new business since ISOS specially protected. \
Directors Geo. Edwd. Bunding, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C, ; James Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq. ; W. 11. Hart, Esq.
Gennnai, Manaoer —W. V. RALSTON.
lIKAD OFFICE ... BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
tli rough out Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland. Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .£2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £145,000
Directors: MARK SHELDON, Esq., Chairman:
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LLI). ; FRANK n!
YARWOOD, Esq. ; HERBERT R, LYSAGIIT,
Esq.; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq,; Hon. F
JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector: J. S. Marks.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and Kin-
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. 11. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Throndneedle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 139 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock
Preference Shares
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up
Uncalled Capital
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits
£529,988
750,000
1,000.000
500,000
2,345.702
GRANTS DRAFTS
3rit;iin and Ireland,
on Australia, New Zea-
land-, Fiji, Samoa, Great
and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts all other usual Ranking
at Interest
fixed periods,
business.
for
and
MACDONALD.
HAMILTON S CO.
Managing Agents for
Australasian'United Steam Navigation ()“«.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co. Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates Ltd.
Blackheath Collieries Limited.
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Shipping, etc.
Canad ian-Australasia n Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
I HE “ALL-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN PACII'TC
HAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES, GREAT LAKES.
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
SAILINGS TO VANCOUVER, VIA AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (FIJI) AND
HONOLULU.
THROUGH HOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN. UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN TOINTS.
SAILINGS ON APPLICATION.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
SAILINGS TO SAN FRANCISCO, VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA
AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Hookings to Any Part of the United States. Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,“SiME
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers.
SAILINGS ON APPLICATION.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing several days’ stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Reach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GTORIOUS SCENERY— PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION . STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
ISLAND TOURS.
Now is the Time to Visit the PACIFIC ISLANDS.
DELIGHTFUL TOURS to
NORFOLK ISLAND and NEW HEBRIDES.
SOLOMON ISLANDS.
PAPUA and RABAUL.
Trips of Four, Five and Seven Weeks’ Duration.
BURNS, PHILP S CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Taid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
Directors:
£3,904,860
£3,025,000
£3,904,860
£10,834,720
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKell'ar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
F. B. S. Falkiner, E?q., M.TI.U.
The Hon. Reginald J. Blade, M.L.C. -
Auditors : S. E. Laidley, Esq. ; A. G. Milson, Esq.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The, Hon. James T. Walker.
General Manager : Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office —29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
336 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.'
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DTRKCT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
JM-'HnlraKa
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking 1 Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain),
also London (2), and A.I.F. Camps in England.
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and SAVINGS BANK AGENCIES at 2776 Post Offices
throughout Australia, Papua, New Britain, Solomon Islands,
and The Pacific.
JAMES KELL, DENISON MILLER,
Deputy Governor 1919 Governor
SPECIAL FACILITIES FOR SAVING
are offered by this Bank—absolute security, liberal interest, and
the convenience of a Branch or Agency in almost every locality.
Deposits
Withdrawals
Interest
accepted from one shilling upwards.
payable on demand at the Branch where the account is
kept.
allowed at 3 % per cent, per annum on every £ un to
£5OO.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales,
The STATE Saving's Institution,
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE BANK that PAYS 31 % INTEREST on SAVINGS
Shlpntn*.
K'Xllil
: j
Osaka Shosen Kaisha
(O.S.K. Mercantile Steamship Co. Ltd.).
Direct Monthly Cargo Service
Manila, Hong Kong, Japan and
the East. Transhipment cargo
accepted for all Eastern ports,
Pacific Coast ports and Europe,
transhipping at Japan.
For particulars apply to
American Trading Company
As Agents for Osaka Shosen Kaisha,
40 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Sydney Inter-State
Sub-Committee.
Intending passengers for other States
are requested to inquire at Quarantine
Department, Customs House, Sydney,
regarding necessary permits required
before sailing.
Perniission to break journey at inter-
mediate Ports is suspended.
Interstate Passenger
Sailings
(Circumstances Permitting).
FOR MELBOURNE.
Huddart Parker Llm
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND.—ReguIar sail-
ings between Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand
ports and vice versa; particulars to be obtained on
application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA.—From Sydney to
Hobart and vice versa every three weeks. Between
Melbourne and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; George Street, Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade rcgu-
TWEED,’ RICHMOND, CLARENCE, DELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF'S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include iirst- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumhah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 11s.; second-class fail and steerage on
steamer, £4 ss.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 2GI GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.


Charles
Heidsieck’s
Vintage 1906
GBfflPM
HE PLUS ULTRA
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agrents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
are Bra'"'"
«*-5 ! « A , «'« o,,, ‘»'”
Berry ' V i\ ar ttay’^ t d f]«« ctloD
S or Oxford V unS
s^S?»£«"ss,
t ng»i«#
gutour* 5 '
PAULINE et CIE
Announce their Autumn and Winter
Show of Millinery on & after March 11
Miss Gray will show Model Frocks, Coat.s and
Skirts, Blouses, etc., on and after March 25.
3rd Floor,Denison House Chambers
Telephone 10167. George Street, SYDNEY.
I 1
ij
nmiinramfs
MADE FROM LEMONS ONLV
BROOKE'S
f teWOfi SQUASH
f ARf-EST SALE. IN THE WORLD
BELLEVUE HOTEL,
Opposite
Queensland Club
and Parliament
Houses.
BRISBANE.
Overlooking: Botanical Gardens.
All Balcony Booms. Tariff, 15s. per day.
Tour
Figure
Re-created
By the SHAVE
system of model fit-
ting it is possible
to have your figure
re-created in the
Shave Workrooms
and upon the re-
creation perfect
gowns built without any fittings.
The name “Shave" is an assurance
of vogue.
Visits to Sydney and Adelaide twice
and to Brisbane once yearly
SHAVE
Ladies’ Tailors
Dressmakers
Centreway
Melbourne
May we invite you to our next Display .
A WOMAN’S
LETTER
DAVID
JONES
for
SMART
MILLINERY
It’s all off—masks, theatre-closing, hotel-
closing ; everything that was a week ago
alleged to be necessary for our salvation.
And the public, taking a long breath, asks:
“Now, I wonder who has been pulling our
limb?” Whoever it was, there’s not a press-
girl in Sydney who doesn’t wish she had
half th i money it will cost.
There have been foregatherings of the clan
Christian during the week to celebrate the
engagement of Mrs. E. A. Antill to 1 • u.
Sargood, good citizen of Wahroonga and
merchant of Sydney. Mrs. Antill, who has
been bon. superintendent of the War Chest
since the packing of its first billy, brings to
her fortunate wooer, besides her brand-new
C.8.E., a charming smile, a lovable person-
ality, and the good wishes of Digger and all
his friends. F. G. Sargood has been a regu-
lar genie of the ring with regard to keeping
the Chest filled, the latest trifle he has
dropped in being his Collaroy bungalow,
which is to be used for some time as a Red
Cross rest home for nurses. The wedding
bells will come witli the early blooms of
Spring. Meantime Mr. Sargood takes his
daughter, Mrs. J. Pockley, to England on a
sad pilgrimage. Mrs. Antill is a daughter
of the house of Tudor, the old Christian home
at Elizabeth Bay.
The Primate of Australia and his helpmeet
have returned to Sydney from Tasmania.
Apples? Hush! Haven’t you read your
Genesis?
The Macquarie-street Exes, (which is
short for Expenses) are asking for another
haporth o’ tar to keep the ship of state afloat.
Of course it’s all in view of the new gold lace
wanted for collars and cocked hat when
Jellicoe visits our much-governed land. Gold
lace and cocked hats have jumped horribly
in price; though crowns, slightly damaged,
are cheap and are now classed as rolling
stock. Why don’t the Goys. and their
missuses forni a union?
A small flock of nurses who learned,
through the black weeks in Maoriland, to
spot the smallest ’flu germ with the naked
eye, arrived in Sydney last week, shepherded
by Sister S. E. Polden, and hid the milk and
roses of their Cold Island complexions in
the obscurity of quarantine. Sister Polden,
in addition to a sheaf of certificates from
every leading hospital within sound of
Bow Bells and several years’ experience in
the Wellington Health Department, was in
charge of the Maori camp at Ivaikohe
through the trying weeks of last December.
At least one of the group claims Aussie as
her birtlinlace ; she is Sister Alice Hayward,
with a scintillating record of hospital ser-
vice. Straight from the Fi nan horrors comes
Sister Gill; while Mrs. Eccles, as her letter
of introduction, has the record of service
with the British and French Red Cross at
Verdun during 1916-17. The other 21 lasses
have been chosen for conspicuously good
work during the epidemic in the Dominion.
Their mission is to give a hand to the Mel-
bourne nurses, sadly overworked in the
southern epidemic.
Silk tulle and lace, with the soft shimmer
of pearl embroideries, clad Gladys Westbrook,
youngest daughter of Mr. and Mrs. W. Rigg,
of Cronulla, when on Wednesday of last
week at St. James’s she promised to join
forces with Henry C. Stening in managing
the Govt. Experimental Farm at Temora.
Amy Stening (sister of the ring-giver), in
champagne georgette, with tones of cherry
color, attended to the bride’s accessories; and
brother James was next-best man. The
Rev. C. J. Collis declared the contract valid.
Mrs. Rigg, in blue and silver, afterwards
supervised the distribution of wedding cake
to about 80 guests at the Australia. The
bride’s father formerly raised his voice in
the Leg. Assembly on behalf of the prolific
suburb of Newtown.
Just left Sydney for Java, after a fort-
night at the Carlton, M. Rogers, Parisian
litterateur, with his son, a youth of about
19, and his Italian secretary, Bigazzi.
M. Rogers, who is connected with leading
French newspapers, is on a French mission
concerned with an Art Exhibition in aid of
blind soldiers, but his plans have been dis-
orgahised by something called ’flu. He
returns to Sydney in three months’ time,
when he will talk.
This page mentioned a couple of weeks
ago that Captain Bertie Watson. D. 5.0.,
MC, had been about a lot m London with
the ' late Alf Marks’s pretty daughter
Marjorie. A private cable of last Thurs-
day announced their engagement. She is
the only child and will be an heiress. He
owns a station, which has been doing remark-
ably well since he went to the war over four
years ago. So the wolf will not howl at then
gate. A brother married Dr. Herbeit
Marks’s sister, and a sister became Mrs.
Stuart Osborne.
“Sandy” Jaques. who enlisted in the
ILF.A. and had a leg blown off just as he
was due for his captaincy, had a painful
experience the other day. A deputation
from J. J. Cohen’s old seat arrived and
asked him to stand, in the National
interest, on the Prohibition ticket. Master-
ing himself with an effort the young barrister
showed them to the door. He would have
made a strong candidate, too. lie was
born in Petersham, put up a great fight tor
the Assembly in the Eastern suburbs a few
years ago, and has more friends and
acquaintances probably than any _ man
of his age in Sydney. Major Shillington
got the Nationalist nomination in the end.
Sydney is mildly interested in the knight-
ing of Ernest Moon, K.C. His wife is a
sister of Ernest Lamb, K.C., one of the
pillars of the A.J.C., and a member of the
big family which has intermarried with the
Dangars, Allens and others.
General George Onslow is reported to be
convalescent from para-typhoid, which is a
furtive disease that caused a lot of deaths
on Gallipoli. The General is a younger
brother of the M.L.A.
The death is reported of Lady Charles
Paulet, mother-in-law of Australia’s old
friend General Hutton. She is described as
a sort of earthly saint, but she must have
lacked the proselytising gift.
The widow of the Downer knight of S.
Aus., who married D’Arcy Addison last week,
was a Sydney girl—a Russell. After the
old K.C.’s death she and her little boy
stayed for a while with a married sister in
Cairo, went on to England and so back to
Australia. She first met the small, fair
Premier’s Secretary in Sydney.
A burglar with a piece of lead-piping
made use of the latchkey that artist Minns
left in his door last Wednesday. And now
Black Brother’s portrayer is minus ■ some
clothing and plus several stitches in the
head. Not the first broken head in that
quarter, either. Some weeks ago the nurses
in a near-by hospital told a thrilling story
of the artist’s rescue of an elderly woman
whom he found picking up pieces of her
smashed skull on the steps of his studio.
Mary, the wife of George, and her name-
sake daughter have been entertained by
Air:drew Fisher and his wife at Australia
House, and the crowned Mary expressed
delight at the marble and wood from the
big continent. But if Mrs. Andy, who is a
very practical housekeeper-, had said “Now,
what do you think of the aceommodat’on
they've given us for the money?” Mary, ns
a very practical person herself, would have
started talking of something else.
It is the face if
Florence Campbell
that smiles at you
from this May
Moore photograph.
The original has just
taken the rostrum at
the Girls’ II ig h
School, rece n 11 y
vacated, after long
and loving service
by Mrs. M. Garvin.
Miss Campbell is a
“dinkum A u s s i e” ;
and that will give
you some inkling of
the height and depth
of her qualifications:
the powers that be
were.so satisfied with
them that they did
not think it necessary to import a new
principal from one of the cold countries.
Born in N. S. Wales, she was initiated into
the three r’s by her schoolmaster-father, and
in infancy developed a habit of acquiring
academic honors. She points with pride to
the fact that she gained her first experience
under the pupil-teachers system, and that
all her degrees came from Sydney Uni.
Nothing at all of the blue stocking about
her. Her eyes are the color o.f her native
sky, and her mouth shows the curves of a
very fine humor.
Mrs. “Banjo” Paterson is still in Egypt
and still doing things to make the Light
Horse a trifle less uncomfortable. From the
beginning the Greek caterers of Ismailia
rooked the hungry Aussie shamefully; but
now at Moascar, the training and details
camp, there is a cafe, run by B class
troopers, as well as a tea-shop, run by Mrs.
“Banjo” and other ladies: and one or other
of these two "joints” is always open to
blunt the razor-edged appetite of the mounted
Diggei ’- ,
The departure of American Consul-General
and Mrs. Brittain has been delayed until
June, so the Ventura will not include them
on her list.
This is Mrs. F. G.
Waley, whom many
a wounded D.gger
will have cause to
arise and call blessed.
The splendid gift of
Mowbray Park, her
home at Picton. to
the Defence Depart-
ment. means that
returned warriors
suffering from shell-
shock and neuras-
thenia will find a
haven for
nerves. The autho-
rities expect to take
possession in May
next, after which
Mowbray Park will
Waley Home for Invalid Soldieis and Sail
ors It will be administered by three
trustees one on behalf of the Federal Gov-
ernment', one for the Red Cross, and one
the generous lady herself; her r e P
tive is to be J. Stuart Thom, the Sydney
solicitor, whose own junior par nei hy the
wav Major Norman Dreyer, D.S.U., was
killed at J Fillers Bretonneux. The house
is a magnificent building in complete readi-
ness for occupancy, and in .addition t° the
wide-flung charms of the 190 acies sin
rounding it, future guests will find delight
in a splendidly-equipped billiard-room Some
of the best stock of Ayrshire cattle m Am
tralia have been bred on Mowbray Park,
and the Mowbray Park foxie, beloved of
Mrs. Waley, was a creature correct as to
spots and lineage.
Brisbane’s boomerang:
The Kindergarten Association has done a useful
thing in arranging that teachers shall go out to the
Children's Hospital every morning and teach tne
youngsters in the pavilion (where the hip and spine
cases are) and also the children in the eye ward.
There’s one poor mite among the former lot, a boy,
who has been three years in his cot.
Tom Crittenden, the man who rescued the schooner
Young Dick from a murdering horde of niggers in
the Solomons some 40 years back, was in Cairns a
fev months ago. He left the sea, and went in for
mining, and when an old shipmate ran across him in
the northern town he was in the last stages of
phthisis. The old hands will remember how, when
the islanders swarmed on to the Young Dick, and
killed the Government agent and six or seven sailors,
Crittenden grabbed a couple of packets of cartridges
and a rifle and ran up the rigging, from where he
picked off over 20 niggers. A. gold watch and £l5O
came, along as a thank-offering from the insurance
people and the vessel’s owners.
Last week Capt. S. L. Mclntyre, _of the 9th
Battalion, was married to Mabel Goringe, a Too-
woomba girl. The bridegroom enlisted on Septem-
ber 7, 1914.
Sister Sallie Kellaway, whose bright snnle played
havoc with returned wounded men at Rosemount
and Kangaroo Point hospitals before she sailed for
Egypt, has become engaged to an Englishman—Capt.
A. B'. Giband.
Young barrister Evatt, who had a brilliant
run at Sydney Uni. and was for some time
associate to the Chief Justice, stepped out
of the little box under the bench .last mouth
to pursue briefs bis own account. But
before he got too busy he became engaged to
fair-haired Mary Alice, only daughter of S.
F. Sheffer, who came from the ITS.A. to
Mosman a good many years ago. She once
had thoughts of trailing two or three degrees
after her name too.
At St. Stephen’s on Saturdav Sergeant
Howell, V.C., was married to Sadie Lilian
Yates, a Victorian girl. The bridegroom,
who won his Cross at Bullecourt, was sup-
ported by Lieut. Noel Smith, another war-
rior with much service to his credit. The
bride’s frock was white embroidered
crerte de Chine, and the bridesmaid, Miss
D. Collins, wore putty-colored georgette
with a black picture hat.
This is the breathlessly story
of a passenger on the Melbourne-Sydney
express when the ’flu scare was at its height
in N. S. Wales:—
They sold us the tickets in Melbourne with the
assurance that everything was all right. At
Wodonga we were told to get out. The entire
trainload proceeded to rush for beds. The Wodonga
people arc good sorts, but they are no miracle-
workers. About half the travellers found themselves
in the streets. One woman with two babies—one
in arms—took up her quarters on the railway station
and lived there for a week. She' was considered to
be doing herself rather luxuriously . by many of
the others. About half of the victims had a
little money; some had nothing at all. They lived
on tick. Meanwhile the more solvent were furi-
ously wiring the N. S. Wales Government. The Gov-
ernment’s attitude was one of masterly inaction. It
declined to let the penniless voyagers go into
quarantine on the N. S. Wales side. It declined
to help them financially, or otherwise, so long as.
thcv stayed in Victoria. The only people it did
anything for were the law-spurning adventurers who
burst over the border in boats and so on. These
were arrested and supported in comparative comfort
until they were judged innocuous.. The longer we-
stayed the more terrified our State Government
became of us. And to make our exasperation com-
pete W V Holman fled through from Melbourne
without so much as a casual medical inspection
on the border!
The Rev Geo. Stiles, who died last week
at his doctor-son’s residence in Newtown,
was one of those gentle-natured men who
generally manage to wives of strong
personality. Mrs. Geo. Stiles for many
years ran one of the most successful private
schools in Sydney—Normanliurst Ashfield.
Never a student was turned out of Norma 11-
hurst with anything approaching an Austra-
lian accent. It was one of the principles ot
the school to have English teachers. Mrs.
Stiles herself had been a Girton girl. In
spite of her arduous lahoi at the colleg.,
the energetic lady would always manage to
spend the week-end at Watson’s Bay, where
her husband was rector of St. Peter s for
many years. It is three or four years since,
through bad health, this rather wonderful
woman retired into private life, hei time
being chiefly spent in smoothing her aged
husband’s path through the Valley of the
Shadow.
It isn’t only London that lias the motor-
bus conductor in natty skirts. Sydney
hasn’t many ’buses; but a couple run into
the city from Stratlifield and Burwood,.
along the Parramatta and Liverpool roads—
and charge less than the railways, first class,
by the way. She-conductors chirrup the
names of the stopping-places.
Mary Helen Carlisle, the English artist
who painted a miniature of the late Victoria
at that august lady’s request, talks of visit-
ing Sydney. Recently her paintings of
Californian gardens have had a vogue, and
now the story of our harbor seems to have
attracted her. In Canada last year she was
the guest of the vice-regal couple.
Mr. D’Alpuget, who knows all about the
Islands and the trade thereof, came back to
Sydney in the Levuka. “Missa D’Alpucci,”
as he is known to the natives, has justified
the affection of brown brother. During the
epidemic he labored day and night on relief
work, and when medical supplies ran short
he and the nuns at the local convents brewed
their own simples to keep the foe in check.
It happened in Darlinghurst, where. the
flats grow. She was a tiny woman addicted
to high heels, and near the top of Macleay-
street a vicious pebble caused a broken
ankle. The lady crawled to the kerb, where
she sank half-fainting. She called in a
weak voice to a passer-by, but after a hasty
glance he almost ran in the opposite direc-
tion. Several Pharisees passed by. Two
small boys came up to investigate, and for
sixpence took the lady’s message to the
nearest constable on duty. P.C. arrived with
a cab, into which the lady was hoisted.
Cabby had a peep at his exhausted fare, and,
ignoring the address P.C. had given him,
drove off towards the Coast Hospital. Half-
way out the lady started to expostulate;
finally cabby came off his perch and listened
to explanations, and the lady was restored
to the bosom of her own flat.
Captain Leslie (“Barney”) Allen has
added a plain gold ring to keep the diamond
circlet company on the hand of Dorothy
McAdam. The lady did her bit in the can-
teens of the War Chest Club in the Big Fog.
Mrs. Alex. Hay’s small boy was seized with
appendicitis last week. Dr. Stewart McKay
operated at Lewisham, where the Hays
have been going in their troubles for as
long as they can remember.
Hilda Caro and Mrs. Willis smile joyously
over the cheque for £6OO-odd that is the
result of their Egyptian furniture raffle
campaign. The furniture, given by Mock-
bell, has been won by E. A. Craig, of Auck-
land (M.L.), and the War Chest and the
A.S.C. Comforts Fund divide the spoils.
Keep a look-out. for Sydney Town Hall
vestibule on March 26 and 27, when the
wives of the Prince Alfred doctors are going
to entertain Flora herself. We’re told her
raiment is to be most gorgeous and her
smiles most alluring.
Mr. Roberts, the secretary of the Tourist
Department, was guide, philosopher and
friend to tlm French Mission while it was
in N. S. Wales. General Pau wrote to his
Government about Roberts's good services;
and now Roberts has had a communication
from the French Government advising him
of a decoration about to be conferred.
Sydney Grammar is buying an extra line
of bunting to fly on the day- “Slip” Carr
returns from Palestine. A true son of his
father, T. P. Carr, he juggles with all sorts
of balls—tennis, cricket and footer —in a
manner that has won his old school much
renown.


lAMOND RINGS
Vhe specially set
-ected fhe excl
‘Ugivg designs @o fhe
skill/ul soiling of fhe
Compa/u/s Pismonofßings ;
pnesenf a pleasing
combination.
Selections ape sen!
on approval and a
copy of die Compam/s
catalogue will be Jon
warded on request
5% discount allowed on
all cash purchases;
2028
Three Slone
£,45-0 -O
2 041
Three Slone
£4O-0-0
sib*
a!
2045
Clus+ep w i f h
Diamond Shoulders
£,36-0-0
2024
p oup oione
£35-0-0
20/3
Five Slone
£3O-0-0
Hardy Mothers L™
E W E 1— L-. E P?. S
13 HUNTER ST
SYDNEY.
296 COLLINS ST
MELBOURNE
116 118 QUEEN St
BRISBANE
&*
LO NOON.
TAKE PHOTOS
OF YOUR CHILDREN
from Childhood to Manhood.
m
WL
What a pleasure it is to have photos of
your children from their earliest childhood
to manhood or womanhood. If you never
used it for anything else, the cost of a
camera would be' repaid many times over
in the pleasure that these photos will give
you.
Call and let us show you how easy it
is to use a camera. We have a most
complete range of
The World’s Best —
ENSIGNS, KODAKS,
BROWNIES
and other well-Known
makes from lO- each.
Box-Form Ensigns (British-made) and
Brownies, Daylight-loading, for Roll
Films 10/-, 15/6, 18/6, 23/-
Folding Autographic Brownies, Day-
light-loading, for Roll Films —
37/6, 48/6, 62/-, 67/6
Magazine Cameras (British-made), for Plates—•
/- 10/-, 14/-, 27/6, 32/6, 40/-, 62/6
RESIDUES, SWEEPS and WASTE PRODUCTS
of Jewellers, Dentists and other Metal Workers
Scientifically and Economically Treated.
Our Metallurgical Laboratories are equipped with the meet modern appliances, and
highest human skill, and clients who leave their Residues, etc., to be treated, can depend
upon getting the full value of every grain of precious metal that is in them, less a
small charge for treatment.
We specialise in Assaying, Ore Testing and Metallurgical Analysis, and
send for materials to be treated, in city or suburbs, free of charge.
A Note or ’Phone Message to any of our branches will receive prompt
attention.
Photographic and Cinematographic Merchants,
Metallurgists, Analysts and Assayers,
386 George Street, Sydney. 266 Collins Street, Melbourne.
93-95 Queen Street, Brisbane. 43 Bundle Street, Adelaide.
144 Queen Street, Auckland. 42 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Laboratories and Works: 57-59 George Street North, Sydney.
New Hupmobile car.
THE COMFORT CAR.
THE Hupmobile was one of the first American cars exported. World tours made in
i 910-12 demonstrated the stamina that can be built into a car selling at a moderate price
and established Hupmobile reputation for strength and performance. “The Comfort
Car” is in every way worthy of Hupmobile reputation.
Specifications.
BODY TYPES—Five-passenger, two- or three-passenger single seater.
WHEELBASE—II 2 inches.
CYLINDERS —Four, east en bloc, removable head —82 mm. bore x 140 mm. stroke.
STARTING —Two unit system Automatic release.
IGNITION—Dixie high-tension magneto.
CARBURETTER —Special Strcmberg, with two adjustments.
PETROL SYSTEM —Stewart-Warner vacuum feed. 13 Imperial gallon tank —two gallon
reserve.
LUBRICATION —Pressure system. Gear pump driven from cam shaft.
COOLING —Thermo-syphon, extra radiator capacity.
CLUTCH—Dry-disc type. Seven steel plates faced with asbestos fabric. Fully housed.
REAR AXLE —Floating type. Spiral bevel gears.
TYRES—-815 x 105 mm. clincher type. Plain in front, all-weather tread on rear. .
UPHOLSTERY—Genuine leather, stuffed with real curled hair.
TOP—Neverleek, khaki.
Rain-vision windshield; head, tail and instrument-board lights; petrol gauge; motor
driven horn ; ammeter; foot and robe rails; tyre carrier; extra rim; side curtains
tonneau carpet; hood cover; pump, jack, full set of tools and tyre-repair outfit.
Write for complete illustrated manual and prices.
DEALERS,
I. PHIZACIvERLEY, Sydney.
EVERS MOTOR COMPANY, LTD.
Brisbane.
DALGETY & CO., LTD., Melbourne.
PHOENIX MOTOR COMPANY, LTD.
Adelaide.
SKIPPER BAILEY MOTOR CO.
LTD., Perth.
The Comfort Car.
T?
I
Ttfi
J
DEALERS,
TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICE,
LTD., Hobart.
A. HATRICK & CO., LTD., Wan-
ganui, New Zealand.
THE NEW ZEALAND FARMERS’
CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION
OF CANTERBURY, LTD.,
Cashel Street, Christchurch,
New Zealand.
Hupmobile
The Comfort Car.


Empress
Farmer’s Sole Agents
in Sydney.
i'll II I |!!i!R
m
vJB
■e£4
Art Stones
The Latest Registered
Jewellery Novelty.
Empress Art Stones” will please all who seek a novelty in the Jewellery World,
ii * rv Fe njade up into high-class Necklets with Pendants, Rings, Brooches, and
Hat Pins, to make a haimonising color set. The colorings of these Empress Art
Stones are adapted from “ Landseer’s” famous works, and are both delicate and
artistic. They are snowing an assortment of tones in the Fancy Haberdashery
Department, Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
Jecklets Price,'l2/6,17/6, 21/
Pendants Price 5/
Brooches, 9ct. Gold Mounts, three designs 17/6, 18 6, 21/
Rings, 9ct. Gold Mounts Price, 21/
Brooches, Sterling Silver Mounts Price 5/-
Hat Pins, 9ct. Gold Mounts Price 8#
Sterling Silver Price, 2/9
FARMER’S
WE PAY
POSTAGE.
SYDNEY.
Sydney's Premier
Private Hotel.
The “Ritz”
Cremorne,
On the Harbor Front.
Delightful 8 minutes’ Ferry Trip
from Circular Quay.
Electric Light and Lifts and all
conveniences usually associated with
First-class Hotels.
Steamers every few minutes all day
and night.
Tariff, from 10/6 per day, and
from £3/3/- per week.
The Chateau Napier,
Leura,
Blue Mountains, N.S.W.
rtpillS modern Residential Hotel is unique
in its situation on the highest point in
Leura, commanding extensive views for over
GO miles.
Tennis Court, Billiard-room, Smoke and
Card Rooms.
Motor Garages.
All dairy products supplied by our own
Farm.
Electric Light throughout.
Private Sitting-rooms.
Golf-links and Bowling-green right handy.
Tel. 121 Katoomba.
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warner's
Rust-Proof
Corsets
The G.-G. ami Lady Helen have gone to
the late Admiral Bridges’ sqnattage, Tra-
walla, on a visit to the Admiral's widow.
Edward Mitchell’s sailor son-in-law, W.
Duke Armitt, with his wife and two children,
stepped ashore from the Ulysses last week,
wearing the rank of lieut.-commander and
carrying a mention in despatches in his
epaulette case. Captain Armitt, who left the
I'. and O. service when he became the Iv.C.’s
son-in-law, had settled down on a Gippsland
sheep-run before the war sent him hurrying
back to the sea. lie saw service on the
British monitor Marshal Ncy, burnt more
powder on the monitor Terror, and, his
health having given out, did his last term
in a shore job.
Towards the end of this year John
McWhae, lion. Minister in the Lawson-
Bowser Government will go to France to the
grave of his lieutenant son; and his wife
and his second son, ex-Bombardier Hector,
will go with him. When the bombardier
was serving with his battery in France the
Huns, in returning fire, blew the cross
from the grave of Lieut. McWhae. The
emblem fell at the feet of Hector, who lifted
it and carried it in more senses than one.
Badly dosed with mustard-gas, Hector, after
sp mding months in a military hospital in
England, returned to Vic., where his father
set him up on a station. John McWhae,
who was formerly chairman of Melbourne
Stock Exchange, contemplated retiring from
politics, to make room, it was hinted, for
the newly-knighted Mitchell, K.C. But the
bubble was burst before it was fully blown,
lie may, therefore, content himself with leave
of absence. lie is the most amiable mem-
ber of the State Ministry, outdistancing
Lawson himself.
Leg. Councillor Austin Austin, of Larun-
dei sqnattage, Elaine, has had word that
son Cyril, with a long war-record behind him
as a captain in the British artillery, is
coming back to Australia in May.
Major Grattan Wilson, of Farnham, near
Warrnambool, long ago camouflaged his
advancing years in an A.M.C. outfit and
went off to far parts, and two sons arid a
daughter have also done their bit. Lieut.
Andrew Wilson is now on his way back,
Lieut. Elliott Wilson fell at Gallipoli, and
Betty Wilson is a military nurse. Major
W ilson himself will be home again any day
now.
St. Kilda ha's been discussing the
pathetic luck of young Dick Morton, a local
boy. of 22, who went to France with the
engineers, was twice wounded, stayed the
war out. and qualified for his commission.
A few days back he was sent to France
from London on a brief business, prepara-
tory to hiking home, where a pretty fiancee
awaited him. The boy took Spanish influ-
enza at this juncture, and died in less than
a week. To make the trick fate played on
him the dirtier, he learned a few months
before leaving for the Front that he was the
heir of a rich bachelor relative.
The Dick Casey pair are delaying their
start back to Australia until their eldest
son, Major Dick, M.C., is ready to come
along with them. Dick has'been A.D.C. to
General Birdwood, and rumor declares that
there is a likelihood of his continuing if
Birdie takes a vice-regal job in the Common-
wealth.
r Xhe W illiam Baillieus’ flying son Tom has
been invalided home with a D.F.C. He set
out in 1017 as a gunner and joined the
Australian airmejh some months later.
The Italian Government has handed the
nation’s War Cross to Norman, son of the
William Smith widow. Norman was in
the great struggle from the beginning.
Among those who are in command of
vessels of the returning Australian Fleet is
Commander Malcolm R. J. Maxwell-Scott,
D. 5.0., who is on loan to our navy for
three years. Captain Maxwell-Scott is a
great-great-grandson of Sir Walter Scott;
his mother was a noted writer who was
brought up at Abbotsford. It was she who
wrote the introduction to Blundell’s
“Ancient Catholic Homes of Scotland” ; and
Andrew Lang’s Border edition of the Waver-
ley Novels was dedicated to her and her
seven children, of whom the above-named
naval officer is one and Mrs. Dalgleish, of
Goulburn (N.S.W.), is another.
Another naval officer who comes to
Sydney with the Fleet is Lieut. 11. Creer,
who is in command of the Huon. Some
years since Lieut. Creer married the Hon.
Veronica Greville, who is now, with her
small son, residing with her people in Eng-
land. Lieut. Creer is a brother of Mrs.
Edmund Playfair, of Sydney. Ilis twin-
brother, Lieut. It. Creer, is also a naval
officer.
Lieut. Itussell Clarke, who commenced his
military career peeling onions for liis coun-
try, is steaming homeward. Mrs. Russell
has returned from Tasmania, where she was
summering at Mount Wellington.
( Baronet Clarke’s son-in-law, Reggie
Power, is at his Albury sheep-run, having-
got his discharge from the English Army
without having to journey back to the Fog.
V ife Phyllis and the baby (now about three
months end) are returning to Melbourne in
October.
Ella Guthrie, sister of Dalgety’s Geelong
manager and of Mrs. Philip Russell, is going
to London in April to be with her young
nephew, Ford Guthrie. Ford left Melbourne
Grammar School to be a British birdman.
Major Dudley Collins has sent word that
lie has added a bar to his D.S.O. Tlie
Major, who was the second son of Reuter’s
former Melbourne manager, is the brother
of the other Major Collins who fell in action
last year.
The Braille Lib-
rary for the Blind
lias had the help of
librarian Winifred
Crabbe for the past
12 years. Miss
Crabbe (pictured
here by Alice Mills)
and secretary Milli-
cent Ritchie are two
indefatigable work-
ers for this wonder-
ful lending library,
which has 8000 vol-
umes and is still
growing. Ii has 200
known readers a n d
140 writers. Books
are delivered and col-
lected free of charge,
an d a reading
teacher is sent to any blind adult person
anywhere in Victoria without expense to
the pupil. The Braille Library has no
money collectors, but depends on voluntary
contributions, and only asks that people with
sight will put it in touch with any blind
people. The writers, besides punching out
Braille books and music, meet regularly for
bookbinding. The Library has evolved
playing-cards and dominoes for the blind,
and there are already 50 sightless soldiers
blessing the institution for these and the
books. The Society helps itself along by
giving concerts and holding meetings at
country centres. These wander-concerts
not only bring in money, but put the Society
in touch with blind people further afield.
The Edward Wilson trustees have given
£4OOO towards a new Library, which will
probably be built by November.
Lieut. Sanger is coming back after three
and a half years’ service. Last year he and
the Toorak Nortlicotes’ second daughter,
Mollie, were married in London.
Last week some stranded Bananalaud
Billjims had entertainment provided for
them by Mrs. Fred Payne, who arranged a
Zoo party; but, falling sick, she could not
attend personally. Mrs. Fulford, Ella
Guthrie, the Grey-Smitli sisters, and Joan
Russell helped to hand tea and talk to the
Diggers, who fed tin bears and monkeys on
buns and nuts under the direction of Dudley
Le Souef. But, as one of them put it about
his bush pals, without wanting to be un-
gracious, better a tart in Fitzroy than a
cream-puff in Toorak.
Which reminds one. A wealthy and
kindly-disposed matron, assisted by a
daughter and her girl friends, lately host-
essed an evening party for a band of Diggers
at her house. The evening’s programme was
music, with supper to follow. Suddenly
in the middle of a popular ballad it dawned
on the lady that more than half her soldier-
guests had vanished. She asked the near-
est Billjim what had become of his cobbers.
“They’re having the time of their lives rag-
ging in the kitchen,” he told her. The
hostess rushed down to blow up the
domestic staff for luring the guests away.
But after a peep at the happy revellers, who
were alternately chorusing and two-step-
ping, she stole back and told the rest that
they could do just as they pleased—there
was a kitchen dance for them as well. All
but three of the guests moved off at last.
Then she and her assistants shifted the
elaborate supper to a room nearer the
revellers, and was rewarded by an uproari-
ous rendering of “For She’s a Jolly Good
Fellow.”
The G.-G. pair entertained a number of
returned soldiers in Government House
grounds on Tuesday last week, when a pro-
gramme of music raged oft the lawns, with
croquet and tennis for the more agile guests.
V.A.D.’s handed buns and tea in the dining-
room, whither the Billjims were drafted in
batches, to keep in line with the ’flu regula-
tions. The usual gold baskets were displayed
on the tables, and host arid hostess gave exhi-
bitions of tireless affability. Her Ex. wore
dark blue silk draperies. Mrs. Rupert
Downes and Eileen Hughes lent a hand on
the tennis and croquet lawns. The soldiei'k
cheered at the end of the proceedings, and
motor-cars took the invalid section back to
hospital.
Teenie Robertson, who married Philip,
son of the late J. L. Purves, has returned
from London with a couple of small daugh-
ters. It is six years since she was in Aus-
tralia, and there is a real Bond-street look
about her clothes.
Elsie Abbott, daughter of the Sandring-
ham solicitor, has returned by the (Jsterley.
Elsie is now Mrs. Ben Robertson, wife of
one of the chief engineers of the Aberdeen
line. The mercurial young woman made a
hit in her flapper days in Melbourne ama-
teur performance of “The Runaway Girl.”
Whilst in England she did good work in
A.I.F. Headquarters’ entertainment section,
looking after and driving Billjims. In her
W.A.A.C. vigour she might be taken by a
short-sighted citizen for a Salvo Army lassie.
Sassiety threatens to go into mourning
over the departure of Cavaliere Eles, of the
Italian Consulate. Though in no sense an
ambassador, lie often behaved like one, and
became almost a necessity among the
Nearly Best. He goes to collect trade
statistics and do odd jobs for his country
at Hongkong. Lauwers, the Belgian re-
presentative, will understudy Rome while a
successor is being appointed.
rn The racing Creswicks, who sold their
loorak palace, Yarrien, to the Toorak Ladies’
College, have now acquired the Horsfalls’
fine old home, Orrong, in the same starchy
suburb.
Maurice Gibbs, of Gibbs, Bright and Co ,
and lus wife are steaming back to England to
display their Australian-born son and heir
and Ins small sister Daphne to their admir-
ing grandparents. Mrs. Gibbs, who shone
m Captain Conant’s Red Cross film, is the
only daughter of baronet William Gordon-
Gumming and his American wife.
The sudden death of Mrs. Stephen Rowan
(once Eily O’Hara] was - a tragedy of last
week. Ihe cheery, handsome young matron
was. round dead in her bath, the result of
heart disease. The sorrowing husband is
a Banana land, squatter and nephew of the
Madden dame. There are five children, the
eldest a g.rl of 16. Big surgeon O’Hara will
be hard hit by the death of his eldest daugh-
ter, w.ho. with her husband and chicks, had
settled m Melbourne for a time. She was
the child of his first wife, a Toorak Kling-
ender, who was noted for her beauty and
passed out in her early twenties.
Lucy Tickell, daughter of the Commodore,
has gained the bronze medal of the Royal
Vic. Institute of Architects, and is the first
of her sex to do so. Her youth and blonde
piettmess somehow fail to suggest her
capacity for serious study and her tremen-
dous interest in social problems.
With this i s a
photo of the new
Mrs. Darcy Addi-
son, who last week
was the widow of
John Downer. Iv.C.,
the dear old Adel-
aide knight who
on his face value
could have passed
anywhere for a
prize-tighter. T h e
wedding with th e
Tasmania n took
place i n Adelaide
and was a very quiet
little . affair. " But
the whole commu-
nity looked up from
its paper next morn-
ing to wish her—and
him luck. The photo is from Freeman’s.
Mrs. (feoff Syme is departing by the Oster-
ley, taking her daughters under her wing.
Her family, in England, has suffered griev-
ously from the influenza plague.
lhe Hoy stone Davey pair (she was a
Sydney Hordern) have hoisted a sale board
on tlreir Toorak house. They have already
disposed of their Mentone cottage prepara-
tory to returning to Sydney for keeps.
The Itobert Harper widow has cancelled
her plan of selling Airlie, the South Yarra
house. It is likely that daughter May (Mrs.
1 a.vlor), with her hubby and schoolboy POT],
inay help to fill the empty mansion, as Mr.
la,vlor has decided to sell Bonshaw.
What Adelaide sees :
The returned soldiers are making ready for their
April appeal. At a meeting in the Mayor’s parlor a
citizens’ committee was appointed to arrange for a
“Brick Drive” for the proposed Memorial Hall.
Langdon Bonython has promised £5OOO if nine others
will do likewise. Meanwhile Unley is pushing on
with its memorial garden.
There is consternation in the boudoirs at the
suggestion that Jellicoe and his men may miss Adel-
aide. It is so long since the local girls got a
chance at a naval eligible.
Henry Howard, our pulpit orator, is planning to
put in next -year in England, partly for a rest and
partly to see his two sons at Oxford.
Died at Kensington, Miss Alice Strangways, a
niece of the late H. B. T. Strangways, one of this
State’s early Premiers.'
Surgeon-Major Flood and his wife are back in
Adelaide, after a year’s absence that included a good
deal of cruising in the raider Wolf as the unwilling
guests of the Kaiser.
Influenza temporarily interrupted the welcomes to
returned soldiers arranged by the Anzae Hospitality
Committee, but they are to be resumed at once.
Capt. Harry Thomson has been promoted to
Major and taken his M.A. degree at Oxford. A
Rhodes scholar, he has found a congenial job as one
of the organisers of the A.I.F. education scheme.
Three trainloads of S. Australians have returned
to us from Sydney and Melbourne and taken up
their temporary abode in a crowded quarantine
camp at the Jubilee Oval. Amongst them was Judge
Buchanan.
George Reid’s eldest boy, Douglas, is men-
tioned for early matrimony with a smart
widow, Mrs. Bech, whose late hubby won
the M.G. in France. The promised bride,
who hails from Norfolk, will not suffer any
reduction in rank by changing her name
again. Young Reid is also a captain.
Leslie Murray, of the Athenaeum Club,
brother of Ronald and Stewart Murray,
last week swore to love and cherish Phyllis
O’Brien, whose late father was on the
Auditor-General’s staff in Westralia. The
pair, who are honeymooning at the Gipps-
land lakes, will visit Sydney before settling
clown to mind Leslie’s sheep.
From Honolulu comes news of the snap-
ping of the marriage tie between artist
Ambrose and Daisy Patterson. The ladv,
who secured the fracture on the ground of
desertion, was not long in acquiring a new
partner; he is said to be well endowed.
Ambrose is understood to be pursuing art
in America.
imported Belgian fiddle-expert named
Gustave Walther, sometime pupil of Joachim
at Berlin, has been appointed a chief-study
teacher at the Uni. Conservatorium, which
means that director Laver is getting back
to the system that kept him out of his own
present job for many years. Dierich, who
held the principal job of the kind when the
late Marshall Ilall fell out with the Uni.
authorities, stayed with Hall when the latter
founded his own music-school, and the Uni.
went on with Curtis and Schrader. Alberto
Zelman and young Joe North came on
presently; and the lately-resigned Carmen
Help rut (Mrs. Teppema) held a chief-study
teaching billet for several years with dis-
tinction. Considering the fact that this
country still possesses several amply-quali-
fied teachers, it looks as though personal
considerations may have weighed with Laver
more heavily than purely artistic motives
when he made his latest selection.
Gertrude Johnston, alleged to be one of
the aces in the Rigo opera pack, has thrown
back General Flu with great emphasis, and
is now resting with mamma at Eltham.
Portsea has had all the privacy knocked
out of it by a tremendous theatrical invasion
supported by a tribe of publicity photo-
graphers. Muriel Starr is well forward, and
Norma Mitchell, Beatrice Holloway and
several other people have been caught just
on the verge of the morning bath. Bob
Greig is also keeping. close handy to the
camera. Robert is not allowed on the toy
I>iei p i 6 break it—but lie is always
useful as a raft for the young people to
dive from.
George Cross, hero of a hundred Marlow-
dramas, is on the way to the U.S.A., where
a moving-picture engagement awaits him.
. Many members of the profession, includ-
ing the new arrivals who are to present “The
Better ’Ole.” helped to keep down the high
cost of living and make the best of their
compulsory holiday by taking a bungalow at
Aspendale and appointing Lottie Sargent
Minister of the Interior. Lottie was able
to provide the party with satisfactory fare
at a cost of 13s. 10|d. a head weekly.
Claude Flemming, who is to star in “My
Lady Frayle,” in which Vera Pearce will
t . tj l6 na P ie ‘Part, created by the late
Irene Brown in England, is accompanied by
Jus wife,. who was one of the Windsor
Dunne tribe and sister to Squatter Dunne,
ot Netley station (N.S.W.).
John Ramsay, father of the gifted Hugh,
who died too soon, has given £2OO to the
trustees of the National Gallery to found
a prize in memory of his son. It will be
awarded annually for the best portrait in
oils painted by a student.


Can you name these Australian Buildings ?
■ ’ • - - - .... :*
dm
hll i l ,* 5 S* * i lifi !i » * If* *!»trn li
, *
~ f
A
x SI*SIR
* *■ ? T?
ms S ■
i -w, |
V mi 3JPK
Iwi
iIN ' I
«*£**!* pfpp
r#nriM iii «****» *ii iLiiiJMfofs
;rirS
.
111
wiii
?£X' ‘
Cl "* t*, ?* 1 &M
piil Jwf 1 y
m ~ t " iis a
• " gg w »“
11
; ye
i •
*11.:
3
fr§
ili&ifr;•• ftSill •■ •• p P p - r •"
111 If I HI _ I ■ 1
11 iJf 3S J|
n*
iwi
WfUlPls 1 f* f
it
•e-G, ,
Tfffflrrar
pip i pi
111 l I iM I
..
n
•- ■ m
fr
F<4- piMiis U fft
IfTOfe®
P*m(>iii ji
in, i > [ ,,,w, *i «,
ja
K
MtS
f t> •
I
i;;C "'
»
ISillglllig
Hi
W| . -
SSI .St
a,
D.
m
lias proved its value in actual use in Australia on permanent buildings of the bigbest
class, as well as on all other classes of buildings, and protects a greater value of property
than all other roll roofings put together.
Malthoid is not the same as others .
May we send you our free booklet of 71 illustrations of buildings, all of which are roofed with MaMioid,
including the above ? It will interest you even if you are not interested in Roofing. A request on a post-
card will bring it by return.
THE PARAFFINE COMPANIES INC. (F. M. Prince, Australasian Manager), CHALLIS HOUSE, SYDNEY.


In these days of industrial strife, epidemics and
the volcanic Peace Conference, the heads of poor
mortals are continually in a whirl; but the gods
have provided a wonderful antidote in King
George IV., the topnotch Scotch whisky.— Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
sole Agents : RESCHS, LiniTED, Redfern, Sydney.
LEWIS &
WIiITTY f
MAKERgi
rm
SMI
mst
S*«§
8K
J:j 5
SW
lifei-
feHSifr
BRINDS
AProduc
o/° Over*Fiftv
IfearsExperience
BRINPS
GIN
//
7Fi
Mini
SPORTING
NOTIONS
MICK
SIMMONS
for
SPORTING
NEEDS
Is there a jockeys’ ring in Australia !
The answer is that there is nothing of the kind worth
mentioning in N. S. Wales or S. Aus., but that as
regards Victoria the thing is a certainty. The two
controllers are wealthy men and as good judges of
racing as Australia possesses. The jockeys’ ring
system of swindling the public has been in evidence,
off and on, ever since horse-racing was inaugurated
on its present lines. it has reached a climax at
different times —as, for instance, in England in Watts's
day-—but it is only exposed and outed to be pre-
sently re-started. It is inevitable because it is so
easy and so safe. There is only one infallible cure,
only one measure which will make a jockeys’ ling as
superfluous as a goll’-players’ ring—the total aboli-
tion of the bookie both on and off the racecourse.
Arquebuse, who won the National
(Hurdles) in 1911 and shortly after broke down, is
to be put into training again. He won under diffi-
culties. Half-way through the race the saddle slipped.
The jockey, an unknown boy who had come over
with the horse from S.A., lei: it to and finished on
his mount's bare withers,, with the saddle flapping
loose underneath. It was a great exhibition of
gameness on the part of both rider and jumper.
* *. * *
Yockler and Hopkins, two well-known
figures in the racing world, .were fined in Sydney last
week for the off elite of “making 1t appear that on appli-
cation they would give information or adviee with
respect to an event or contingency relating to a horse-
race.’’ This is the Law’s method of accusing them
of giving tips. Hopkins was originally with Faik-
play, the Licensed Victuallers’ organ. He did so
well that the Ton was started, the special edition
of which sold freely for 10s. 6d. Vockler began his
career in Melbourne, where he also shone refulgently
as a spotter of winners. Over and over again both
of these men picked four and even five winners out
of six in a day’s racing. Their operations were
disastrous to trainers and owners who had what
is known as “jokes” on. Not only did they dis-
cover when a given animal was to he allowed to try,
and print it on the morning of the race, but they
criticised, in plain terms, the running of other
horses, and drew conclusions as to when their hour
was due. Nothing fails like success in these
matters.
It is almost certain that, had not'some inimical
trainer- or owner-speculator murmured their names
into the ear of the police, there would have been
no proceedings* . The police never appear to see
these things for themselves, as is indicated by the
fact that, while they expend a tremendous amount
of energy on the arrest of gamblers at the two
■ fairest games known (two-up and fan-tan), they are
unable to discover resorts where thousand-pound
wagers are common.
11. K. Austin, the well-knewn amateur
rider, suggested in Sydney Sun last week the institu-
tion of a riding school for embryo jockeys. In this
page’s opinion it is more needed up country. There
are still Waites and Dempseys in the Queensland
cattle-country. But how many arc to be found else-
where? So rare are competent breakers becoming
in the Backblocks that unbroken horses are being-
sent for treatment in considerable numbers to the
big cities! For example, Paddy Nolan, th (T well-
known Band wick trainer, gets regular consignments
from a patron with properties near Bourke and
Oarcoar. He has had a crush specially built to deal
with them, and other preparations have been made
to do the work w-hich, 20 years ago, was carried
out in the country.
In any event the great Australian horseman lias
usually been a specialist—a Skuthorpe. There is
no general enthusiasm for the art of riding as in
(say) Ireland. Go to any country show in N. S.
Wales. You will find in every jumping event the
same handful of riders who make the particular
game their business. In Ireland, at every Show
from that of Dublin downwards, the owners are “up’ :
and the same applies to the smaller cross-cpantry
meetings The standard of horsemanship is admit-
tedly ’lower in N. S. Wales than in any of the
States, but even in Vic., where it is highest, the
professional —often a city-bred .man —is everywhere
in evidence.
The arrival of the motor-car and motor-bike is to
blame to a certain extent. Also the frenzied way-
in which foreign Governments and British remount
officers have bought up horses—any horses, broken
or otherwise. The y-oung Australian could not get
riding experience from the animals that w-ere left ;
they were hardly fit to carry him. And, finally,
there is the dearth of hunting, which is the best
school for horsemen, when all is said and done.
The Easter Monday race-meeting at Onka-
paringa (S.A.) has record entries. The principal
events average 50 each, and the Great Eastern
Steeplechase lias 63. The Club has promised to
refund all Victorian entry fees if quarantine regula-
tions last till then. It has also definitely decided
to break its old rule and hold a second meeting—-
with special consideration for hunters —later in the
year.
At Tapley’s Hill (S.A.) the other day,
the 12-year-old son of Ben Matson, the ex-jockey, got
a place with Sst. 111 b. up. He himself only weighs
sst.
Bungling at the post and unsatisfactory
starts have caused a lot of trouble at S. Aus. meet-
ings this year, and things seem to be getting worse
instead of better. Whatever the arrangement for
getting the horses away, the- official in charge must
be a competent man, and such a one doesn’t seem
available in S.A. at present, or else the horses are
an unusual lot of outlaws.
A wild conflict of rumor and assertion
about the resumption of racing in Vic. ended in
the announcement that the gees will have the colors
flying again at Caulfield next Saturday, and the
V.R.C. meeting will start on the Saturday following.
The Futurity Stakes, with its complication of penalties
and allowances, will he disposed of on the interven-
ing Tuesday. Something that wins or nearly wins the
TESTIMONY.
NEW CLERK ( during row ): “I’ll do better
next day. Ain’t I got brains?”
DISGUSTED BOOKIE: “You! Brains! Why,
you ain’t got no more brains than a
punter.”
Oakleigh Plate next Saturday is likely, enough
to be It for the Newmarket thereafter. For instance,
if long-expected Tragic Star can take the Caulfield
event with Bst. 71b. up he’d be a mighty strong
fancy for the longer flutter with the handicap figures
reversed, though the handsome black coir has.
hitherto run so very like a squib that overt an
extra half-furlong on the straight course may stop
him. The Oakleigh is an easy race to back a
loser in, anyhow. Ore would sooner risk his
boots on the chance of, say, capturing the
Futurity for Clark and Robinson, "ift which case he
would seemingly have to carry a 71b. penalty for the
Newmarket, Thusfar Lucknow is only talked of as an
imported Horse that ought to win the double if sus-
picions of his slipperiness are well-founded, and there
is perhaps good reason for thinking that the post-
ponement of the meetings will improve his chance. All
the same, it was nothing in favor of the English-
man that he was rushed early into the-market, along
with Outlook, rtlreenstcad, Pctracia and a few
ethers. "S'.
*-3 'S' * *
Racing re-started -in N. S. Wales at
Moorefield on Saturday, the anti-'flu precautions
having been lifted • as suddenly and as illogically as
they were imposed. Sand Bee won the March
Handicap in. taking fashion. She is by an imported
sire from-a "nicely-bred local mare, Busy Bee. Busy
Bee was- out of a Musket mare by Gozo, whose stock
are mostly as game and sound as they are plain-
looking.
Allworth s fell with L.- Slelv in the Unplaced
Handicap, and the- skull-cap which he was wearing
probably saved his life. Most of the field galloped
over him, and his cap was devastated, but he was
lpgrely “outed.” Si'ely makes a sort of hobby of
bad falls; he has had moj*e in the last two years
than most riders over the sticks.
7. * ”
Hare Hatch, a full-brother to Gloaming,
won the Goodwood Handicap (W.A.> on Saturday.
The two horses exemplify what a gamble the buying
of yearlings is. Gloaming cost 220 guineas, and he
has won nearly £111,500 in stakes alone f Hare Hatch
cost 330 guineas, and he has won £l9O.
Robert Crawford, who died in Melbourne
last week, had owned thoroughbreds tor close on 50
years, and Mark Whitty had trained for him during
40 of them. Their last joint winner of class was
Prince Bardolph, who took the Sydney and Williams-
tow:t Cups.
When the Vic. Government stopped rac-
ing recently many trainers and jockeys were faced
with the necessity of finding work. They marched
so resolutely and in such numbers upon the Fleming-
ton meatworks that one of the latter put up a
notice: “No trainers or jockeys need apply.” It
was a sort of homing instinct, no doubt, that drew
them to where deed meat was.
Mick Doyle, the Flemington trainer, has
a unique record: in over 50 years’ connection with
the turf he,has never been officially questioned about
the running of any of his horses.
“C.S.G.” on the good old sport of leg-
pulling: A quaint conceit at Paradise camp (Wilts)
was to turn all the Diggers who had fought their
guns in Prance on to gun-drill, while the reinforce-
ments dug drains and planted cabbages. A detach-
ment of hardened Draftmen were performing bored
evolutions about an 18-pounder when the Peace
Colonel and his A.D.C. hove in sight. After sundry
howls, expressive of horror, at the men’s ineptitude,
the Colonel pinned one gunner with a baleful glance,
and, pointing at the breech-block, said: “Now, you
-de-scribe the movements of loading your gun.”
His victim meekly spat and commenced: “Well, sir,
you open the little door at the back of the
cannon” “You wott” shrieked the Colonel.
“Well, sir, you open the little door”— — Fourteen
days C.B.
* * * *
Albert Lloyd (12st. 1241 b.) and George
Cook (13st. 6slb.) met in friendly rivalry at Syd-
ney Stadium on Saturday night. There is nothing
of the Bob Fitzsimmons about either. Frantic
swings and an almost pathetic reliance on the god-
dess Chance are their chief characteristics. Lloyd
felled Cook, and then Cook did the same to Lloyd,
and -finally, in the 15th session, Lloyd unexpectedly
got one on his friend’s jaw r that might have been
heard in Ocean-street. Result: Llovd remains heavy-
weight champion.
George Mendies, flyweight., knocked out George
Gray in short order at the same resort on the
following Monday night. Both are clever, and gave
an admirable exposition of the boxing art for one
round. In the second Mendies uncoiled a brief
left-arm jolt which would have been a credit to a
Gans. It was the end. S'eanfan Parker well and
truly beat Billy Ross in the preliminary.
In an eliminating scrap last week to deckle
which of the heavyweights now in England should
have the privilege of being exterminated by Car-
pentier, Joe Beckett lande l one on Wells’s glass jaw.
Beckett v. McGoorty is the next match.
Carpentier’s most dangerous adversaries are in
America, namely, Jack Dempsey and Miske. Demp-
sey in said by the Yanks to have a heavier punch
than Sullivan, and many apparently sane admirers
claim that he could have licked .Tack Johnson at
•the latter’s best. Miske is a kind of hefty .Mike
Gibbons. His chance in any championship contest
lies in outpointing Dempsey, whose, science is
‘inferior to his Darcy-like capacity to continue, un-
wearied, under any amount of punishment. Mean-
while no one can possibly say wh# class Carpentier
occupies. All is barren conjecture. Tt is onlv
known that he has been 44 years out of the game
and i- now 27. If he is better than he was, the
day of miracles is not past.
* * * *
In England an Advisory Board is at work
on an attempt to make cricket more lively, and one
suggestion is that left-handed batsmen should bo
abolished. Imagine Australia disqualifying Clem
Tfill, Ransfovd and Bardsley ! Another proposal
that would hit a. few of our top-notchers hard is
this: “To debar for the season men who, being of
military tage. did not join the forces or try to do
so, and to debar altogether men who being of mili-
tary age did lio war work of aiw kind.”
Many of England's top-notchers, by the way, have
not boon to the Front to any extent worth shouting
about. “Plum" Warner, Fry and others of that
class, though they wore uniforms, had H.S. jobs.
Fry was just over the age, and in a similar sense
Warner was unfit. Douglas, Rhodes, Barnes, Hobbs,
George Gunn and Hardinge are other front-rankers
whose names have been more prominent in home
cricket than in foreign fighting during the last four
year?.
* * * * -jK-
In the S. Ans. inter-players’ match'last
week-end —which took the place of the Yictoria-S.
Aus. match, abandoned through the ’flu—P. Rundell
(Adelaide) piled up 124 (retired) out of 358, and
took five wickets for 20. D. M. Steele was also
busy to the extent of 58. Both were in the S.
Aus. XT in 1914-15 Sheffield Shield matches; ard
Steele was responsible for S. Australia’s only century
of that year.
The bat was dominant in Melbourne pen-
nant cricket on Saturday, Some scores: Edgar
Mavne (Easts) 141, Billy Stewart (Carlton) 134. and
Jack Ryder (Collingwood) 108. Old Peter McAlister
was good for 84.
Left-handers Warren Bardsley (Glebe)
and .T. Bogle (’Varsity) are running neck-to-neck for
the batting average in Sydney grade-cricket. Both
have notched four centuries. Both have had nine
completed innings, in which Bogle has scored 908,
averaging 100.88, and Bardsley 889, averaging 98.74.
Bardsley, by the way, hasn’t missed double-figures
this season; the only other smiters (out of 218
players in 12 clubs) with a similar distinction are
Reid and Docker (Western Suburbs), and M. A.
Noble (Paddington).
* * * *
Some big scores were put up the other day
at Glencoe (N.S.W.) in a match between Lismore
and Bungawalbyn. The latter knocked un 491 runs
in 4$ hours; A. James 102, J. Cupitt (retired) 103,
S. Anderson 92, and M. Yabslev 88. Lismore’s tally
was 117 for two wickets. Either they have some
good batsmen on the Richmond or they badlv want
a bowler.
■‘O Pip”: Will the lengthy and regular
practice the Diggers have had in grenade-throwing
improve their bowling? Two necessary features,
the overarm swing and the elevation, are there. 1
was coaching a platoon on Salisbury Plains and one
of the men, a sturdy left-hander, could drop the
missile up to 50 yards on any spot you liked. A
type like that might do a lot of damage to a bats-
man’s reputation.
Queensland lacrossers started the other
day to revive the game which has slept while 80 per
cent, of its players were in khaki. Having elected
a patron (his State Ex.) and done a few other super-
fluous things of the sort, they looked up the sports
depots for playing material. In all Brisbane only
six sticks and 'three balls were buyable. The ship-
ping shortage is blamed. It suggests the idea of a
search among Australian timbers for a piece of
wood to bend to the shape of a net.
* * * *
Sydney baseball factions have decided to
bury the ' hatchet after three years’ unpleasantness.
Deague and Assoc, are amalgamating, for the winter
anyhow, League reserving to itself the right to hid
for cheers on its own account during the summer.
England challenged for the Davis Cup
on Monday; Belgium and Prance had already done
so, and the nominations are now closed. The reps."
of the winning nation should be here in quest of the
ashes towards the end of the year. Tennis has been
snowed under more than most European sports by
the war. France still has Gobert and Decugis.
ltiseley, the old-time champion, and one Cart-
wright, about whom nothing is known locally, went
to France to represent England the other day,
according to a cable. As regards Australia, Wilding
is, of course, gone, but Brookes remains. But
Brookes is older, and, if possible, gloomier on the
subject of his health. It is doubtful' if he could
sfand the strain of a stiff contest. The Yanks, by
the way, declined to challenge for the Cup, though,
with Williams and McLoughlin available, they would
have had a great show. Their reason was that Aus-
tralia should have time to pull itself together after
its losses. The Yank can bo a good sport. ;
* * * *
Died of pneumonia, Clarrie Gittings, aged
24. At the Christian Brothers’College (Adelaide) he
was champion gymnast and handballer. Ho played
League football for South Adelaide and Sturt, won
many swimming prizes, and, as a member of the
Adelaide Harriers Club, he recently won a couple
of threequarter-mila events.
* * * *
“Chev” : For the past two months parts of
the east coast of Australia have been flooded with
a thin, mossy-green weed, almost like jelly in the
water. It has been particularly bad on the wide bay
extending from Cape Byron to Cudgen, and the
waters of the Brunswick River have been turned into
a greasy green pea-soup, so thick that you could
not see your hand Sin. under water. Fishing has
been practically spoiled. Whiting and bream stick
it out well, but most of ’em clear out (where they
go to, seeing the weed is everywhere for miles, I
can’t make out) ; but the river mullet and blaclciish
(black bream, or “niggers,” as they are known
locally) gorge themselves on it till their bodies are
distended almost to bursting point. Now and again
the wind changes from N. or N.E. to S., and appa-
rently shifts the weed further up the coast, or maybe
out. to the reefs or the current; anyway, it goes for
a day or two till the wind changes. Then hack
comek the beastly stuff, a trifle browner and dirtier,
maybe a trifle thinner, and up goes the bar again
against fishing, surfing and swimming. The visita-
tion comes every year, but the oldest inhabitant
doesn't remember it as had as this season. Now and
again tons of thick kelp, with great roots, are
thrown on the beach as well. With all this weedy
influx come strange fish and sea animaleulae. There
are brown, jelly-like things the locals .call sea-slugs.
They arc from 3in. to Bin. long, with a long, sinuous
neck and a head which reminds one of the tortoise.
The body is edged off with two enveloping brown
flaps, which they use for swimming, and which fold
over the body like a loosely-fitting large-size swallow-
tail coat round an emaciated waiter. Repulsive,
slimy things they are, and beach and foreshore of
the rivers are dotted with thousands of them left high
and (fry by the tide to be burnt up by the sun.
Sea-eggs are here in hundreds, white, pink and bluey-
grev, and lately we have had specimens of that most
extraordinary dragon-like little fellow, the crested
weed-fish ; also the curious but very graceful diamond-
shaped pennant-fish. In the Brunswick River 1 have
caught, on a whiting-line, sergeant-fish, not brown
in color, as noted by Stead, but greyish-black, with
three very distinct stripes along the body. Yester-
day an angler came in with a strikingly colored
snake-like eel, mottled blue and white predominating,
with occasional yellow spots. He was 22in. long,
had a beak-shaped mouth, reminding one of a hawk,
flat small teeth and no fins save the ridge along the
back. He should be called the blue eel, but maybe
he can be otherwise classified.
Adelaide saw something new in the high-
diving line lately. Harold Smyrk is now a resident,
and he, before the war, represented Britain at the
international Olympics. A water-fete was being
held at the Torrens lake. The City Bridge is not
big r enough for show-diving, so the trolly-mounted,
ladder, used by the Tramway's Trust for repairing
overhead wires, was brought on to the bridge, and
from a 50ft. elevation Smyrk illustrated the “swal-
low” and other fancy flights.
Adelaide footballers are a touchy crowd.
The S.A. League, being invited by Vic. to get busy
again with inter-State matches, has brought out an
old-time grievance, and demands that Vic. shall first
apologise for having, sometime before the war,
“flouted” an agreement.
* * * *
Great windward work won the genera!
handicap of Sydney Flying Squadron, on Saturday,
for 21-year-old boat Donnelly and veteran skipper
Percy Holmes. Donnelly was beaten in the first heat
by Scot, which blew home 4sec. ahead. Swastika
took the second heat narrowly from Merlin, and in
the final there was a 24sec. interval at the end
between the veteran and Ethel (second).
MYTHICAL WILLIAM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“But here and there in the city crowd stood out
the real man from Outback. His bronze was deeper
than his town-bred brother's, his eyes more direct,
his glance more candid and simple. He walked
somewhat uncouthly, instinctively lacking his horse
beneath him.” —Sydney V.T. serial.
I am weary of Bill, from the Back of Beyond,
As viewed by romanticist eyes;
And his brumby, old Gloom (out o? Grief, by
Despond),
Which buckjumps and pigroots and shies,
What time William, astouudingly calm and aloof,
Sits immovably fixed on the animal’s roof.
Bill belongs to the distant and mythical Past,
And so does his riotous steed:
Any up-to-date squatter the latter would “cast”
As not worth its keep or its feed ;
And but few would have time for a type such as Bill,
Since there aren’t many jobs lie could usefully fill.
There are plenty of Billjims in town from the West;
Their legs are not bowed at the ki.ees ;
Their regard "is no simpler than that of the rest
As they w’ander around at their ease ;
They will pilot a bike with address and resource,
But they most of them jib at a buckjumping horse.
They are experts with spanners and oilcans and jacks,
Unlike the original Bill,
And they know the most suitable motoring tracks
For miles round their homes, and their skill
Is as great with a car as their sire’s used to be
With an unbroken colt in (say) ’73.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


With Health Everything is a Source of Pleasure
—without it, nothing- else, whatever it may be, is enjoyable.
Even the other personal blessings—a great mind, a happy
temperament—are degraded and dwarfed for want of it.
Everything should be made secondary to health.”
There’s no reason why you should not be healthy—Nature
intended you to be sp.
The various organs of your body have certain functions to
perform. Jt is your duty to see that these organs are not
overtaxed or run down, which will prevent them from
properly fulfilling their respective functions. For instance,
constipation, indigestion and other disorders of the system
are the direct result of your internal muscles being much
below normal—failing in their duty.
My exercises pay particular attention to the muscles that
govern the action of the stomach, liver and bowels, and
quickly bring them back to a healthy state again.
Surely you want to enjoy the best of health? Then why
not write to-day for full particulars of my
Postal Course of Health and Strength Culture?
This is proof of what I say:—
Dear Sir, —I am writing to you to let you know how
I am getting on after a month’s course of your
Physical Culture. I am feeling splendid, and must sav
lam very pleased with the result of the exercises. I
have gained 101 b. in weight, and am feeling really
well. (Signed) P.D.R., Dookie (Victoria).
Many hundreds of letters from pupils all over Australia
and New Zealand are in the same strain.
I should like you to have my booklet, “HEALTH AND
STRENGTH FROM SELF-CULTURE,” which tells about my
methods, fees, etc. Just write your name and address across
this advertisement, and send it to me with, three penny
stamps for postage. ,
REG. L.( snowy) BAKER,
“The All-round
Champion Athlete
of Australia,”
866 BELMONT BUILDINGS, SYDNEY.
Now for Coursing.
Beddome’s Dog Medicines Always Lead.
Worm Powders.
An excellent alterative,
create an appetite, keep
the clog healthy.
1/- each, 10/- doz.
Tonic and
Condition Balls.
Purify the blood and
produce a smoothness
of coat.
2/6 per box.
Booklet “ B,” “ Hints to Dos' Owners,”
Price 6d., post free.
R. W. BEDDOME (Si CO.,
CHEMISTS,
254 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
Obtainable also from
JOHN BRUSH PTY. LTD., SYDNEY;
WALTER & STEVENSON, Ceorge St., SYDNEY.
ZI ESS
THE CHOICE
OF THE PEOPLE
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOR
MINING. MILLING, etc.
INCLUDING
STEAH ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL BE POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO
THE SECRETARY,
Box 229 Q.P.0.,
MELBOURNE.
THE GENERAL MANAGER,
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
THE SECRETARY
Box 220 Q.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
PRANCE
-f
EGYPT
-37
&
£5
Indian’s Suggestion
to the
Returned Man.
You’ve seen the sights of other
lands. Now see the wonders of
your own.
Mount an “Indian” and see Aus-
tralia.
Catalogue with pleasure.
MELBOURNE: Rhodes Motor-Cycle
Co. Pty., Ltd., 109-113 Russell Street.
SYDNEY: Milledge Bros., Ltd., 156
Castlereagh Street,
BRISBANE: Canada Cycle and Motor
Agency, Ltd., Adelaide and Creek
Streets.
ADELAIDE: Eyes & Crowle Ltd., 75-79
Pirie Street.
LAUNCESTON: John King & Sons,
Ltd., Charles Street.
PERTH: Armstrong Cycle & Motor
Agency, Hay Street.
WML
A Good Cigar at a Moderate Price—
“CAROLA.”
MILD, BURNS FREELY, FINE AROMA.
SAMPLE BOXES POST FREE.
11/6 Box of 25. 22(6 Box of 50.
A Really Pure and Healthy
FULL-SIZE VIRGINIAN LEAF CIGARETTE—
“SATIN FINISH.”
5/6 Box of 100. y > 2/9 Box of 50.
POST FREE. %
A. A. MARKS, 576 George St., Sydney,
Cigar and Tobacco Importer. BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE CITY.
Your Motor-boat is only
as g'ood as its Engine.
IX
nETS
Marine Engines
For All Boats
Caille 14 H. P. Aristocrat Motor
Is Electrically Started>
Electric Lights
Caille 8 H.P. Unit Power Plant
Reversing Gear on Same Baso as Engine
Callle Five
Speed Row*
boat Motor
With Starter
Clamps to Any
Rowboat and
Drives It 7'a 10
Miles an Hour
The only serious thing that goes
■wrong with a motor-boat is the
engine. You look for trouble
when you iit. a poor engine in a
good boat. You guarantee your-
self against trouble in any form
when you install a Caille Engine.
They are the Motor-boat Engines
de luxe! We have a complete
range of Caille Perfection Engines
from 2 to 30 h.p. 1 to 4 cylinder
designs in standard and heavy
duty types. Also the Caille Row-
boat. Motor —makes rowboats splen-
did little power boats. Send for
complete catalog, and state type
of engine you want and for what
work.
Benson
Brothers Ltd.
76-78 Liverpool Street, SYDNEY.
71-75 Queen’s Bridge Street,
SOUTH MELBOURNE.
138 Currie Street, ADELAIDE.
Silverware
of Refinement, Elegance & Quality.
The Firm’s selections of Silverware and other articles suitable
for Wedding Gifts and Presentations are the Highest Expres-
sion of Excellence and Individuality, and are of a quality which
insures a ready acceptance by people of instinctive good taste.
css
Solid Silver Fruit or Cake Dish, in Case. High-grade Quality and
Manufacture, £2l/10/-
Orders by Mall receive Prompt and Careful Attention. Selections will
be sent on approval to any address in the Commonwealth.
Wm. IBrummonb & Co.
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.


A.
l‘2
C;Rv.i
■Uju
w
i r 'fl
iff
dM
£/
m u
i H HV
&COU.A
MAOC IN AUSTRALIA
HA VE von seen the latest
PE LA CO Poster ? Look
for the cheerful 'nigger'
on the hoardings, m his new rote
of Golfer. He is kv'Own all over
the Commonweal Hi, and is sym-
bolical of' Australian-made
PEL ACO Collars, Shir's, and
Pyjamas. Thai YOU will be
satisfied with the quality of
Peiaco garments goes without
saying.
Reliable Mercers sell them.
COLLARS
“THERE'S MONEY IN THE PEN."
im 1
»
m
The above
is the title
of our book-
let, which
tells about
the possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
•as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
hv HARRY J.
WEStON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
difference between
learning to COPY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by .the
beginner. It ex-
plains, in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
penny stamps
to-day for a
copy of this
bboklet—
“THEßE'S
MONEY
IN
THE
PEN.”
the harry j. weston
Postal School of Drawing,
IQS Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
BRITIS-.
ME
Perfection
PUSR RUBBER
BUSINESS MEN. —Learn to present .your ideas,
statements and arguments in the most striking,
pithy, cogent and virile language—learn how to
think, study and act for yourself-; how to classify
your knowledge and make most of your mental
powers. All this you learn in Grenville Kleiser's
Course in Public Speaking. Fifteen minutes each
day is all that’s necessary to devote to the study.
Send at once for Prospectus “S,” Address: Jas.‘
Rodger & Co., 159 E Manchester Street, Christchurch,
N.Z. [9
AMERICA'S
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
All y Address
bj' tile Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
states. 3d.
Influenza.
“PLENTY OF MILK” is the doctors’
advice in all cases of influenza.
FRESH MILK modified by
Mellins Food
forms the best diet throughout the
course of the attack and in convales-
cence, because it is more, palatable,
more easily digested and therefore
more nourishing than milk alone.
OF ALL CHEMISTS AND
STORES.
Price 2/6 per large bottle.
Sample and booklet free on request.
Mellins Food Ltd.,
Colling wood.
AGENTS:—
GOLLIN & CO. PROPY. LTD., Melbourne,
Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane.
Mother si II s
SEASICK
HMBMffl REMEDY
jr
CyRES
OF
THE
CHARMS
A SEA TRIP
need no longer be marred by the
dread of mal-de-mer
MOTHERSILL’S Sea-S:ck Remedy'
i guaranteed to prevent and cure Sea
and Train Sickness, or money refunded.
MOTHERSILL'S has received the unquali-
fied .endorsement of the leading papers of
the world, and the finest testimonials
from the world's greatest men, women
and institutions.
No Bad After Effects.
All Chemists, in Large & Small Boxes.
llotliorsill Remedy Co.. Ltd.,
Clarence & Market Sts.,.
Sydney.
Guaranteed to cure
SEA OR TRAIN SICKNESS
OR MONEY RETURN ED
78?
—i
•so SOFT AND
COMFORTABLE"
HORROCKSES’
ESTABLISHED 1791
"horrockses**’
On SELVtDCt.
urM>Dni-K«;rVKORB(V:Kr,f < >->lOKtROCKSES'HOff!tO
■ HOgROCKSES'HORROCKSES’HORROCKSES'HOftgQCWSES':
-sumptuously ap-
pointed and situated
•ight in the heart of the
City of Melbourne
Tariff by the day 10/6
Cr. Swanston Street
and Flinters Lane,
Melbourne
C. R. KERR,
Proprietor
QUEENSARMS
■ HOTEL
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell# Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office
44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SHOES!
Present conditions have not changed
Abbey quality. You are assured
the same high standard as hitherto.
Abbey shoes can be relied upon to
give full satisfaction —and they
cost very little more than the
ordinary kind.
We illustrate a choice Tan Willow
Calf Oxford Shoe.
Prices, 28/6 § 40/-
Also in Black Velour Calf, 35/-
In half and full sizes, and narrow,
medium and wide fittings.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between (i. P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydne* .
m
w
7
/■'Si!
V'
/ F
I
m
A HINT Hat
becoming to men
of every type.
It will gain the approval of
men who select critically.
A Hat that meets the usual
requirements in an unusual
manner.
Shown in the newest shades
for present wear.
R. Hunt 8 Co.
314 George Street,
Sydney.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
jfo nolice (except of a hostile character ) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
R. Innes: Did anybody but Australians
and French take pail in the great war? OJi, yes—
a few Germans. .. .F.W.F.: Well, it only makes
“Private Trim’s” compliment the more deserved....
8.H.: An old 0ne.... Fourth B.: All right. We’ll
assume “Q.V.E.” was wrong, and that Major Black
belonged to the 11th Battalion, the 16th.
What we’re more concerned about is: Who
stole his decorations after he was dead ?... .R.H.D.:
Anything up to £l2 10s C.G.: Nobody on earth
speaks that language W.J.C.: “Panorama” is too
commonplace and obvious. .. .M.M.A.: Get some new
thoughts. .. .E.G.8.: Nothing there. .. .F.D.: Not
much force in that way of putting it. .. .E.E.11.:
Your verse is very muddy... .J.P.: “Lesser Love”
no good to us. .. .T. 5.8.: It seems very young....
A Digger and Anticus: No use... .Q.M.J.: Very bad
verses. . . .C.P.11.: Not our style. . . .Gus : Not nearly.
. ...E.A.F.: No. . . .E.S.C.: “Larrikin” isn’t hope-
less. Try again. .. .8.C.: llow many thousand
times has that been said better ?.... E.F.: The alle-
gory doesn’t work smoothly... .O.B.: The ballad of
O’Shea does it: —-
Jhon O’Shea and Dora quite a match they will be,
At courting they always seem to agree ;
For talking, they seem as busy as the little bee,
Under the dear old willow-trees.
Now this couple only been married a week,
When Jhon came home the worse for drink ;
With bJood hot eyes and Dora’s lips to seek,
Jhon staggered, only to fall into the sink.
There he lay, for Dora . frightened to stay;
Away to her neighbor she flew ;
How he got up it would be hard to say,
For a bottle he had, the cork he drew.
Next morning early, to his surprise,
Finding himself alone sitting on the mat,
lie thought now it’s no use telling lies,
For Dora must know where I sat.
So the best he could do was to apologise
And Dora would forgive Jhon O’Shea ;
He’d come home sober and not be such a guy,
And Dora wrote to the publican Jhon O’Dea.
. ...1.R.: It doesn’t move u5....GW.: We don’t
like it,. .. .A.M.: “The Mother” beats the worn track,
saying no new thing—not even an old thing we 11....
K.R.F.: Not quite enough real interest.... R.C. :
Verses not up. . . .A.G.D.: Lumpy. Try something
of your own. .. . D.K.: Very good of its kind; but
we don’t care for the kind. .. . W.E.8.: No yarn
there. .. .R.W.C.: You may chuck the mountain
daisy under the chin, but don’t hope to do it in this
paper. .. .J.J.E. and F.P.: No use. .. .L.G.A.M.:
Words, words, words. We want marrow. .. .Fern-
leaf: You might revise that carefully and send back.
.. . . S.G.W.: They miss, but not by so much . . . .T.V.T. :
Net worth while. .. ,Bumble-Bee: Says the obvious
thing. ... . Waimera: We don’t reprint; and we
wouldn’t reprint that if it meant soothing Billy
Hughes into silence. .. .11. W.: No use... .B.B.: Must
go back. .. .C.P.11.: “The Truant” nearly. . . .S.G.W.:
No. If you didn’t sign “Webfoot” it wasn’t you.
.. . .E.G.M.: Nothing there. . . .Egi: Don’t like it. .. .
J. Jingle: Not enough in the sketch. ... Private
11. M.: You mean Pirate H. M., don’t you? What
you send was written by Ella Wheeler Wilcox; and
pretty poorly written, too. . . .A.S.: Miserable stuff.
... . J.V.McP.: It misses. .. .Currajong: Left us nod-
ding. .. .R.C.: A bit crude. But something in it.
....Med: No:. .. .Plodder: “Little White House” a
long way 0ff.... The Period: Not quite. .. .J.F.: A
good idea; but wanted a lighter, surer touch....
Bellerive: “The Fatal Exit” is strangely moving:—
The hour was nigh for the murderer to die,
Condemned by just law to hes fate ;
From the gallows grim, prepared for him,
The hangman did calmly await;
, From hes cell of gloom, pinned for hes doom,
Led forth was the victim Tim Ryan,
Prepared to depart, with a hardened heart,
A miscreant with a nerve of iron;
To the priest he did say, no need to pray,
A saintly send-off is rot;
Upon the trapdoor, without a feeling of awe,
While the hangm’an adjusted the knot,
Tn hes manhood prime he died for hes crime,
The murder of hes innocent wife,
Who, devoted and brave, endeavored to save,
The brute from hes evil life.
....Long Dave: You don’t score.... Current Ac-
count : None whatever. The present arrangement
was sanctioned by Act of the British Parliament in
1896. .. .Desmond G. B.: Cannot particularise; there
are many reputable firms selling the good Australian
article.
TO AUTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
COUKESPONDENTS.
Mel II.: Don’t want any ringworm jokes, thanks.
You can't draw much, anyhow.... Leon H.: Masks
are off now. Let us forget them while you learn a
little more about art. .. .R.M.M.: Drawing is weak
and gag hasn't a kick in it. .. . T.T.P.: Feathery ama-
teur pencillings. Don’t send the others. .. . Tom L. :
Take away your wooden Jews... .Dorothy N.: Study
and try again when you’re 17. .. ,M.R.: Idea a month
late. Drawing several years too early... .E.W.J.:
Why has the stout gent run his walking-stick through
his innards? Also, why hasn't he noticed it?....
•T.0.R.: Evidently the first scratch of a beginner....
Seeisee: You should send stamps. But why trouble
to take the terrible exhibit home?. .. .T.L.8.: With
immense labor you get a fuzzy effect with all the
wrinkles in the wrong places. Adopt a simpler
technique.
If King Edward VII. still takes an in-
terest in worldly affairs he must feel that
the committee which is fixing up his Adel-
aide statue has played him a scurvy trick.
It was all arranged that he was to stand
near Government House gate ; but he would
be dwarfed there by the fine equestrian
soldiers’ memorial. So he goes further up
the Terrace. The old site put him right
alongside Venus. The new one gives him
merely Bobbie Burns as a companion.
“Star” Stirling, M.C., killed at Fromelles,
had a wit all his own. He was platoon
commander of No. 16 Platoon, D Coy., 60th
Batt’n, 15th Brigade, sth Division. Before
the historic march from Tel-el-Ivebir to Ferry
Post he addressed his platoon as follows :
W-e’ve got a pretty rough march before us, and
before vve start off I’d like to remind you of some-
thing. We're the last platoon of the last company
of the last battalion of the last brigade of the last
division of the A.I.P. If any of you belonged to
another platoon and fell out on' the march it
wouldn't matter very much ; but, remember [here he
shook an impressive finger at them], if you fall out
of this platoon, you fall out of the blankv Australian
army !


Stopain Toothache Gum
Instantly Ends The Ache
And Helps Save The Tooth.
Don’t put up with toothache a minute. You
don’t have to. Just put a little piece of Stopain
Toothache Gum in the cavity, or around the
tooth and all pain is gone as if by magic.
@5
&
u
Let STOPAIN Stop That Boring Pain.
It fills up the Cavity, excluding the air, and
slopping the mouth acids from acting on the
frantic, jumping nerve; hardens quickly, and
forms a serviceable filling that will last for a
long time—until you are ready to have a per-
manent filling put in.
Why punish yourself ? Why endure the
agony of toothache when a shilling box of
Stopain Toothache Gum will quickly restore
your peace of mind ?
Keep it on hand for emergencies.
Stopain Toothache Gum is sold by most
medicine vendors at a shilling a box, or sent
direct upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
520-528 Riley Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Drives Away
Cores Quickly.
At last a real ‘ does what it says ’ Corn Cure;
nothing like it or just -s good has ever been
known.
Every man or woman who has corns, Warts
or bunions ought to try Handy Corn Cure at
once and see how marvellously it works. Quit
shaving your corn with a razor. You may draw
blood and Cause blood-poisoning.
Handy Corn Cure will get rid of every corn
you have got without pain or discomfoit.
Handy Corn Cure is remarkable because it
never irritates or turns the true flesh sore or
raw. It can’t—it’s that antiseptic, safe and
harmless. The corn shrivels up and comes out.
1/- Per Box everywhere. Posted free by
Sunset Drug Co., 520-528 Riley-st., Sydney.
m
'^y<*r ( V;V
"iPI
sJiiS!
'J
a
y>
:
mmm
m
i
!®
>¥
Y<&
■ ><\
1;I;S
TO FEEL
GOOD!
To feel good it is necessary to feel well. When the liver and bowels
do not act, life is a failure.
Chamberlain’s Tablets wake these drowsy organs like the sun wakes
the earth and the whole body laughs.
Chamberlain’s Tablets are a pleasant, prompt, gentle, tonic laxative for
men, women and children and an ideal remedy.
If you lack energy, don’t relish your food, feel dull and constipated, if you
go to bed tired and wake up tired, all you need is a dose of Chamberlain s Tablets.
They will make you feel like a new man, clear the brain and give you
a healthy appetite.
Why—you can get more happiness than you ever dreamed of out of an
eighteenpenny box of
Jor the Stomach o Lived.
Diarrhoea.
Diarrhoea attacks all ages, and is equally
fatal to young and old. The great danger in
this disease is due to the frequent lack of
proper treatment in the first stages. Chamber-
lain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy is a re.iable
and effective medicine, and if given in time
will prevent serious results. It never fails, and
is pleasant to take. Every household should
have a bottle on hand. Get it today. Cham-
berlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy taken at
the first unusual looseness of the bowels will
save suffering and anxiety---and loss of both
ime and money.
Take It With You.
The importance of having a bottle of Cham-
berlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy with
them is realised by experienced travellers, as
this medicine cannot be bought on the train or
steamship. Change of water and diet often
deranges ti e stomach and bowels and produces
diarrhoea. As Chamberlain’s .Colic and
Diarrhoea Remedy is the most reliable medicine
in use for these ailments, care should be taken
to have a bottle always on hand. Attacks of
bowel trouble nearly always come on suddenly
and when this remedy is at hand all danger
It.ay be avoided.
13e Firm.
When you ask for a bottle of Chamberlain’s
Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy, do not be per-
suaded to take anything else. Be firm in your
conviction that there is nothing so good. This
medicine has been tested in the most severe
cases of cramp, colic, dysentery and diarrhoea,
and has never been known to fail. “ Can be
depended upon” is an expression always used
in connection with Chamberlain’s Cob'c and
Diarrhoea Remedy. One bottle goes a long
way towards relieving suffering humanity. It
never fails to give immediate and permanent
relief.
BE
YOUR OWN
BARBER !
By using the EVER-READY MODERN-
RAZOR you can shave as well as any barber.
-Nothing to adjust, nothing to get out of
order. Merely slip in an EVER-READY
blade, close cover, and the EVER-READY
will shave with a keen-cutting stroke that
will please you. No fear of gashing the
most tender skin.
Standard Set, consisting of EVER-READY
Razor, handle and 8 blades in neat case.
Price 7) m Post Free.
Just write your name on a slip of paper
and enclose the amount.
Manufacturers’ Selling Agency,
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Horlick’s Malted Milk contain 3
all requisite forms of nourish-
ment. That is what makes
Horlick’s so rich so delicious.
If you have not yet tried Hor-
lick’s, there is a great treat ia
store for you.
HORUCK’S
MALTED MILK
No Shortage. Ample Supplies.
“I’ve Struck It—
The Real Thins; in Razors. Gets through the job
in a quarter the time, and makes the business a
pleasure. The ‘PLUM’S’ the Razor for me.”
THK “PLUM” RAZOR.
PRICE 10/6-POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
The above makes a handsome present.
All the above Post Free. Send for our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
Tried and Trusted
The “PLUM”
Razor.
•*1
ay
Cycling without fatigue
means cycling on the world’s acknow-
ledged finest saddle a
BROOKS (
the choice of every veteran Cyclist
the product of a firm with a world-
wide reputation.
Ask your Agent.
The Great House for Watches
Our output of watches runs into
thousands annually.
After selling watches for 80
years we t link —indeed, we know
from- customer;.’ letters —that our
reputation for GOOD watches is
unique.
We stock only the higher grades
of watches, but our prices will be
found the lowest.
Every watch is passed by our
expert before it is allowed into
our stock. Every watch is guar-
anteed for 5 years.
Our super “Fx W If’ watch, in
its many forms and sizes and
cases, has no equal for absolute
reliability, profound accuracy and
wonderful strength ; and yet they
are inexpensive watches.
patent
Lady’s Gold Bracelet Watch fully jewelled and guaranteed
choicely cased, from £5/10/- to £l6/16/-
Fairfax 8 Roberts, Ltd.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 & 25 Hunter Street.
Plain Figures. Cash only.


Missing Friends.
AMELIA GILLESPIE, last heard Tf
about 1889, then about to get married.
Brother inquires. Information Bulletin
Office.
GIBSON’S
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide.
High-class Residential Hotel.
Tariff: 13/- per day inclusive.
8/= per day Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
If any illustration Appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to th-'
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
\ ON
TYRES.
More Miles for Your Money
MURPHY'S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Biles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/3 per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
ROYAL AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY OF N.S.W.
NOT POSTPONED.
ROYAL JUBILEL SHOW
GREATEST COMBINED AGRICULTURAL SHOW AND EXHIBITION
IN THE WORLD. 12 DAYS—7 NIGHTS.
14th to 26th APRIL.
£ll,OOO PRIZES £ll,OOO.
ENTRIES CLOSE.—Export Cutter, March 11; Wines, March 11; Horses, March 15; Cattle
and Pigs, March 17 ; Poultry, March 18 ; Dogs, March 20 ; Agriculture and Dairy Produce,
March’ 21 ; Horticulture, March 24.
Ocean House, Moore Street, Sydney.
Prize Schedules and Entry Forms on application.
H. M. SOMER, Secretary.
'Renunpon,
EEVOLVER^PISTOL
CARTRIDGES.
REMINGTON ARMS UMC COMPANY
D. D. BRYANT, Australian Representative
R.l Box 633. G. P. 0.. MELBOURNE
IL—— — ** . L —, ————
TD> EMINGTON UMC cartridges
are made and tested for every
standard make of pistol and revolver.
Their uniform accuracy and absolute
reliability make them the favourites
among shooters of this class of fire-
arm, whether used by the expert marks-
man or by the casual purchaser for
self-defence and safety.
)
Write for special booklet
free upon request.
QUEENSLAND
MOST RESOURCEFUL OF
THE AUSTRALIAN STATES
Visitors to Sydney and residents of hew South Wales
tch.n seeking information about the. Great Northern State, whether
from a tourist, land settlement, scientific or investment point of view,
should first enquire at the Sydney Branch of the
Queensland Govt. Intelligence & Tourist Bureau .
Full Information and Descriptive Literature supplied FREE.
ADDRESS: 279 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. SB.
DIAMONDS as NEW YEAR GIFTS.
No other Gift in the whole list of Valuable Things has such
Personal Appeal as a Diamond Ring.
K 79.—£11/10/-
Bob
Klol3.—Diamond
anti 3 Emeralds,
£lO/10/-
AIX OUR DIAMONDS
ARE SET IN
PURE PLATINUM
AND 18ct. GOED
wvrmi
K923.—£35
I
■
K 734. —Diamond
and Emerald
Cluster, £55.
Jlolo.—£l7/10/-
W
£lO/10/-
CAL,!, AND INSPECT, or WRITE LOR OUR NEW CATALOGUE
OL USEFUL PRESENTS.
STEWART DAWSONS,
LARGEST JEWELLERS OF THE EMPIRE,
STRAND CORNER, SYDNEY.
Banks’ Value in
Better Brasswork.
am
Made in Australia.
IN DANKS’ Better Brasswork is found a quality that has
been proved by test to be as good as the best imported.
Being made in Australia it offers better value than imported
goods of a similar nature.
Danks’ Brasswork Stands all Tests Required
by the Government and Individual Expert.
It is manufactured in our Sydney and Melbourne works, and
includes various classes of Brasswork, Cocks and Fittings.
Also Brass, Copper and Aluminium Castings, Repetition Work,
Wheel-cutting and Repairs.
Other Danks’ Specialties include:
Lead Traps, Compo. Pipe, Soil Pipe, Sheet Lead, Water Meters,
Engineers and Plumbers’ Tools, Tools for all Trades, etc.
Our Pump Department
is well equipped with a splendid variety of Pump® of unquestionable reliability for all
purposes.
Sueli a variety provides a pump particularly adapted for your special purpose—from the
useful Hand Pump to the powerful Centrifugal or Double-acting Piston Pump.
Each type is reliable in construction, and all are noted for their long service and
absolute dependability.
We can also quote you for handy Oil or Petrol Engines, reasonably priced, and thoroughly
efficient.
ENQUIRE TO-DAY.
John Danks 8 Son Pty. Ltd.
324 Pitt Street (near Liverpool Street), SYDNEY.
And 391 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
Out with “The Guns”!
“Men, permitted for the first
time to remove their masks
in the street, took full ad-
vantage of the opportunity to
smoke.” —Netvs item.
“Off with your masks
And smoke-at-ease,
Bring out your ‘guns,’
Your GBD’s!”
When a hardened
smoker lovingly
terms his pipe his
“ old gun” you’ll
most likely find it’s a
k r if
the perfect pipe!
Many Popular Shapes .


Soft White Hands
Follow use of Outlcura Soap sad Oimt-
meut. At night bathe them yiNA fee
Soap and hot water. Dry and rub 3n ma
Ointment. Wear old gloves during night.
S°ap to cleanse and Ointment to heal.
JR. Town. & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.”
Sold by dealers throughout the world.
CHRISTIES
■SPfCML/Of
TWO
L/A/6S
S
WRITE
FOP
CATALOGUE
PATTERNS 0 /
MATERIALS
TO
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
Hr
an
a
520 GEORG E5 T SYDNEY
ZC ZiO/MTER NEWCASTLE
EIEY
Always Reliable
ELEY ‘Grand Prlx’
Cartridge Case, loaded with
Eley Smokeless, Ballistite,
Smokeless Diamond,
Schultze, or any other
standard smokeless powder.
ELEY
•450
Revolver
ELEY
380
Revolver
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
ELEYBBOS.L-LONDON
\W<®
\ ■ 'N
njrsr
.V
For Heavy Loads Nothing Equals
a Federal Lorry.
It will cut in half the cost of hauling by team.
It will deliver goods twice as fast, twice as far
and with absolute certainty.
Federals are working to-day in every corner of
the world. And earning profits for their owners.
1 to 5 tons Capacities.
1 Ton, $l9OO
1 y 2 Ton, $2350
2 Ton, $2600
3% Ton, $3350
5 Ton, $4400
Find out what Federals will earn for YOU. Write for the
magazine “Traffic News.’’ Also full prices and discounts.
FEDERAL MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY
Factory—Detroit, Mich., U.S.A. Foreign Department—lB Broadway, New York.
Mixing and Sifting Machines.
Complete Self-Raising-
Flour Plants.
Feeding, Mixing and
Conveying Plants for
Manures and Chemi-
cals.
Package Packers.
Concrete Mixers.
Rolled Oats Cookers
and Steamers.
Bag Hoists.
Combined Grinding,
Collecting & Sifting
Plants.
Baking Flour Mills.
Roller Mills.
Pulverisers.
Disintegrators.
Centrifugal Dressing
Machines.
High-speed Sifters for
Hand and Power.
Dustless Sack Cleaners.
Dust Collectors.
Bottle-filling Machines.
Rough Breakers.
Chilian Grinding Mills.
Beef Hoists.
Boiler.-feed Power
Pumps.
Steel Conveyors.
Cast-iron Spiral Con-
veyors.
Belt Trippers.
Belt Carriers and Re-
turn Idlers.
Barrel Elevators.
No. 14 Size Heavy-duty Mixing Machine, with Rough Crusher & Removable Sieve.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES, POST FREE.
Schumacher Mill Furnishing Works Pty. Ltd.,
PORT MELBOURNE, VICTORIA. [2
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
MmMm
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
PRICE 1/3 PER BOTTLE.
Of a.ll Chemists, Grocers, Etc.
SCRUBS & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA,
YOUR
See the
letters H.P.
and the British
Houses of Par-
liament are on
the label—other-
wise it’s an imi-
tation.
Your Grocet
sells H.P.
J
Used the
World Over
m.
m
a
MOTOR
...CARS
GAPILLARINE
Grows
Moustaches
Quickly!
Hundreds who have used it testify to its
genuineness and efficacy as a moustache-
grower. Rub it well into the roots, and note
its quick results. Send for a Jar to-day.
PRICE 10/6 JAR —POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Half-moon”: The Thirsty Island ceme-
tery holds the graves of many Japanese
■divers who paid the penalty for diving in
search of deep shell. This season, after four-
years’ interval, the pearlers are giving the
■deep-water grounds another turn. Nippon
knows the risk of a pressure at from 701 b. to
■over 901 b. per square inch, but being a fatal-
ist, and shell being plentiful in 30 or 40
fathoms, he doesn’t let himself brood over
ins-chances. All the same, he exercises the
utmost care with his gear and in selecting
his crew. *
* * # #
“Croson”: I know most of the growers
round Melbourne and I can’t name a dozen
who will take any tomatoes to market,! let
alone the factories, this season; and I know
only one man with a really good crop—he
has 30,000 handsome plants bearing well.
He will get for them something between
£7OO and £1200; cost for plants and manure
about £6O, plus labor, of course. It’s a
livelier gamble than Tatt.’s.
* * * *
“Haka” : No accounting for tastes. In
applying for a renewal of the sanitary con-
tract, a Maoriland nighty recently told the
municipal authorities that the past two
years’ work had been a pleasure.
* * * *
“A.W.0.” : “It was like this*” said Bran-
nigan to Dan Fogarty, as they leaned on the
bar of the Stop-an’-Look. “Twenty-five
years ago when I took the conthract to sink
the first 30ft. well for the council, I didn’t
know too much about the work; so I
started off with a couple of oul’ mattocks, a
No. 5 shovel and a crowbar made out of the
side-rail of Tommy Ryan’s oul’ dhray. After
three weeks’ murderous toil in the bleachin’
sun, I got down to the required depth.
Then wan mornin’ when I arrived for the
purpose of shlabbin’ the holer, I found the
sides had caved in and the well was full up
with loose earth.” Dan looked up sympa-
thetically. “I suppose,” he said, “you had
to turn to for another week or more to clean
out the rubbish?” “No,” said Brannigan.
“I didn’t feel inclined to waste any more
inergy on the job just then, so I hung me
hat and coat on the windlass and retired to
the shade of a gumtkree about 200 yards
away to think out the next best thing to do.
About four hours later I was woke by the
noise of shrieks an’ yells, and lookin’ over
in the direction of the well I saw an excited
crowd dancin’ round the windlass and
heavin’ earth in all directions. When I
shtrolled over amongst ’em they greeted me-
with looks of surprise and anger, and when
I shtood on the brink and gazed down at
the perspirin’ form of Mick O’Brien
shtanding’ on the bottom of the well, Michael
nearly collapsed.’ ‘The Devil take ye, Bran-
nigan, ye scousy scut,’ he yelled up at me;
‘ here we’ve been toilin’ for the last three
hours cleanin’ out rubbish, thinkin’ we’d find
your dhirty carcase at the bottom.’ And do
ye know, Fogarty,” concluded Brannigan,.
“that I had the Devil’s own job to convince-
that crowd that it wasn’t a put-up job to get
the work done on the cheap.”
LOOT!
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
This is a song of loot,
Plunder of earth and sea!
The good old. world shall yield her fruit
From branch and bough and bole and root;
And the ball shall 'lie at the freeman’s foot
To kick in. the days to be.
Loot, loot, loot!
Plunder of forest and lea ;
And the ships of the world,
Under smoke-wreaths curled,
Bringing it all to me.
We are a brigand race,
Robbers from days of old;
There is no place
On the wide earth’s face
But its treasure our hands shall hold.
Loot, loot, loot!
This shall our watchword be.
Waggon and team
And the snorting steam
Bringing it all to me.
Not for the mountain we stay,
Not for the flood or the fire;
Our fathers’ way
Is our path to-day
To the goal of a World’s desire.
Loot, loot, loot!
Together we stand or fall,
Brothers in plunder
That none may sunder,
Till the great good come for all.
Papers they wrote of old,
Cramping laws that were vain,
These shall we break
For our children’s sake,
And none shall write them again.
Loot, loot, loot!
We shall steal from the vaults of years
The thing that is fair
And the thing that is rare,
To sound in a people’s ears.
Lo, the Great Adventure calls;
And the men of our company
Are the souls that dwell
Betwixt Heaven and Hell
Wherever the wind blows free.
Loot, loot, loot!
But none shall rob of his own.
In the camp of Man
Since the world began
All reap what we all have sown.
Fling wide the flag on the breeze!
Fare forth to the quest anew 1
On the wave and sod
We shall steal from God
All things that He dreamt to do.
This is the song of loot,
Plunder of earth and seal
The sun and the stars shall yield their fruit
From branch and bough and bole and root;
And the Man shall be more than a soul-less brute •
From now to eternity!
W.B.W.
GEORGE STREET.


*9
□
5*2
n
The NEW EDISON
charms all lovers
of real music
MISS ELIZABETH SPENCER,
Soprano,
One of mqny famous artists who
have sung in direct comparison with
The NEW EDISON, in order to
demonstrate the remarkable fidelity of
the Re-creation of the human voice.
Imagine a performance at which
a number of the world’s most
famous artists contributed —the
great singers and players —selec-
tions that have made them
famous, possibly for all time.
It is just such a treat that The
NEW EDISON offers to you. To
possess one of these perfect musi-
cal instruments is to have a
never-ending programme of real
music—gloriously rendefed —in
the comfort of surroundings of
your own choice.
No home should he without . a
NEW EDISON—get one for
YOURS.
Write for full details, post free.
THOMAS A. EDISON LTD., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
Certain-teed
oofinjf
Roll
m
vr
r»
~<s2
i
Master of
Every Roofing
Situation
Whether it is laid on
gently sloping or on
pitched roof; whether
in the industrial districts
of the city where it is exposed to sparks
and the corrosive action of fumes, or in the
open stretches of the country where it be-
comes the prey of the hottest rays of the sun
and of drenching rains— Certain-teed is
master of every situation.
Certain-teed comes in handy rolls and is
suitable for factories, stores, hotels, ware-
houses, barns and outhouses. It is weather-
proof, noiseless and fire retarding. Does not
affect the taste or odour of water. It is eco-
nomical to buy, inexpensive to lay and costs
practically nothing to maintain.
Before you decide on a roofing ma-
terial ask US about C'ertain-teed.
Australian Representative—C. C. McCANN,
Perpetual Trustee Htiilding, Sydney, N.S.IV.
SVI'N'EV AtIENTS:
John Ranks & Son Pty. Ltd. Wunderlich, Ltd,
Janies Hardie & Co. Ltd. James Sandy & Co.. Ltu.
Manufactured by
CERTAIN-TEED PRODUCTS CORPORATION
World’s Largest Manufacturer of Roll Roofing
SAFEGUARD YOUR health
p? J.Colfis Brownes
CWorodyae
The Original and Only Gennine.
THE REST MEDICINE lOU
Coughs, Co/c/s, Asthma,
ami in tlie Cough of IJKONCIIITIS and
CONSCiMFTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS anti effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery
01 all Chemists. Prices in England, IjS, $/-, 5/
Made in England.
t)
r/A
that are reliable and accurate.
We carry the finest range in. Australia
“A marvel at the price
81. Steven’s Little Scout Single-
shot Rifle, 22 calibre, 18in.. round steel
barrel; open rear and knife-edged front sights.
Weight, about 211 b
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/3; other States, 2/2.)
22/6
IS?
“Splendid for all small game."
831. Marlin Repeating Rifle, 1897 Model,
24in. octagon or round barrel, 22 calibre rim fire,
magazine takes 25 short. 20 long, or 18 long rifle cartridges, case-
liardehed receivers, fitted with sliding rear sights;
weight 511 b. takedown Freight paid,
&5 'l5/-
WE REPAIR ALL KINDS of GUNS and RIFLES.
810.
short
plain
over
which
'‘"Simple and extra strong in construction
Winchester Single-shot llille, 1904 Model, for 22
l ir U is ile cartridges, 21in. heavy round steel barrel,
niV g Q®i( . actl on, ladder rear sight; length of rifle
a , -n a ‘-V n V K -' a , ( fi'out sight, with patent alloyed tip,
will not tarnish; weight, about 41b
(Postage—N.S.W., 2/-; other States, 3/8.)
41/-
“Suitable for small game and target shooting.”
85. Stevens’ Visible Loading Repeating
Rifle, 22 calibre; magazine holds 15 short., 13 i
long or 11 long rifle cartridges, mixed or separate; 20in. round barrel;
length over all, 35in. ; weight ; slide action, blade
front and screwrear sights Freight paid,
65/-
Owing to market fluctuations prices here quoted are subject to change
without notice.
BA.—Browning Patent Automatic Rifle,
handles eleven 22 short smokeless cartridges; walnut stock,
pistol grip, 19i-inch barrel ; length over all, 3 6in. weight, 4Alb. ; bead front and screw rear sight,
fitted with safety bolt; barrel may be dismounted by unscrewing quarter turn.
Freight paid,
80/=
grip, 21in.
adjustable i
,'lt • ■
“A perfect rabbiter’s rifle.”
837. Remington Hammerless Repeating Rifle,
Model 12A, 22 calibre, solid breech, side ejector, straight
round barrel, handles 15 short, 12 long or 11 long rifle cartridges;
•ear and open front sights ; weight 4ilb
Freight paid,
90/
A
“Shoots loitli guaranteed accuracy.”
813. Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906
Model IC-sliot, 20in. round barrel, plain trigger,
straight grip ladder rear sights, slide action, handles 22
short long or long rifle cartridges; weight, about sJlb. ..
’ Freight paid,
90/-
“EVER READY” PATENT
CIGARETTE MAKER
Simple and durable. Nothing to get out of order.
Full instructions with each one. POST FREE
“A suitable weapon for the hoy. ,f
82. Stevens’ Marksman Rifle, 22 calibre, A.F.,
round barrel. 201 n.. chambered for long rifle* cart-
ridges, case-hardened frame, oiled walnut stock, open
front and rear sights; weight, 41b
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2;)
3 51-
One of the hardest-hitting 22 cal. rifles on the market.
839. Remington Automatic Hammerless
Rifle, Model 16A, 22 calibre, take-down action, length of barrel 22
inches. Magazine holds 15' cartridges. Weight silb.
Freight paid,
£7
814. Winchester Repeating Rifles, 1892
Model, 25/20-, 32-, 38-, 44-calibre, central file,
full or half magazine, 24in. barrel; weight, about 71b.
With Round Barrel Freight paid, £5/1 0-
With Octagon Barrel - Freight paid, £-5/1 5/-
816. Winchester Repeating Carbines, 1892 Model,
25/20-, .32-, 38- or 44-calibrcs, cert nil. fire, full or half magazines, —Pi 1 H
20in. round barrel, weight about sjlb. Freight paid, 3 3 “
Illustrated Firearms and Sports Lisd Post Free to any address.
2C
AUSTRALIAS GREATEST
SPORTS OUTFITTERS'
AND TOBACCONISTS
City Sports Depot
99 King SC also a/
Newcastle £ Brisbane


An Unsolicited Letter in Praise of
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills.
Mrs. ,
FRANCES
FAIRBAIRN.
(.from
a photo.)
Sheldon Drug Co. Ltd.
Dear Sirs, —
I have known what it is
to suffer with Backache
and Kidney Trouble, but
thanks to your Gin Tills
this is all over now.
They are certainly a
most extraordinary
Remedy, and it is surpris-
ing to me that anyone
would now suffer pati-
ently with Kidney Trouble
when such immediate re-
lief can be obtained from
Gin Pills.
I have recommended
them to lots of my friends,
and never yet have I re-
commended them to any-
one who has not been
benefited by them.
Yours truly,
(Sgd.)
FRANCES FAIRBAIRN,
24 Harris Street,
Rozelle.
Gin Pills Will Help You.
c s&SR s ss» sass ts a* *
*“”§? as?, s<» ™" ftis* srSe; .r.^
assArsf’
***?, ™9? St ser.w
•have®suffered,^'the 1 very principle of Dr. Pgj* £ that ,t » practicably im-
possible to trike them into the human 0 ° ha "e any sign's of Kidney Trouble or
Rheumatism, Sl 'such "as pu% fellings under the ,eye| obin I^,s fe^ r ° r g?" pills^for
&^e d a"d^“dn^o»ble b aS e the "which will quickly relieve you of your misery.
Price 1/6 and 2/6.
Drsheldon*
lr
for BACKACHE
and Kidney Troubles
c. BRANOAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seuen
Prize Medals.
Works: Birmingham, England.
These series» of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box. ®
*'■
■
* ;■ .
:
ill a
r-j
:‘..s ■ ■ ■■
m?
WAITING!
There is nothing so trying for a woman
these days as - waiting —always waiting.
It needs a steady nerve and a strong Heart to
carry on—do the day’s work with a cheerful face,
and have a smile handy.
Give yourself a chance to do this hy keeping
fit a tonic that really helps is
Phosforino
I THE ROYALTONIC
This is a nerve and cell food and strengthener
that is helping many folk over the worries, work
and waiting that the world is going through now.
PROVED FOR 50 YEARS .
All Chemists
1/- - 2/6 - 4/6
Ashton & Parsons Ltd.
London and Melbourne
Connla’s Well.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Under the hazels of inspiration there is a well
which sends forth a royal surge of purple in the
season when fruit and blossom fall together upon
the water. He who would approach it without heed,
let him think upon the fate of the lady Sinend,
whom the angry waters drowned upon Shannon
shore. —Ancient bardic statement.
J HERE is a wild, green place where
footsteps pass,
JL Scattering the star-fire glowing in
the dew,
And making a long pathway in the grass,
When the thorn whitens and the moon
is new.
And some have heard the rustle of a dress,
And some a laughter very rich and low;
Rut no eye watching sees a soft foot press
The bent white clover blooms that dream
and know.
Slowly the river sings the world to sleep,
And long forgetting of the things gone by ;
The old, strange secret that its waters keep,
Not one dark ripple whispers to the sky.
Five thousand years ago she came this
way—
Or yester morning—how the swift hours
turn!
I know she had a harp whereon to play
The little tune that made her fingers burn.
And here were glossy hazels smooth and
brown
Above a well that lapped the mossy stone.
She laughed. The whisper of her soft white
gown , .
Spake haste to the young breeze the south
had blown.
Clear were the waters sleeping in the gloom,
Down the old steps that few lone feet
had trod;
The quiet hazels were in fruit and bloom
The selfsame morning on each branching
rod.
It was the well of Singing. She would dip
Her hot white fingers in the shining pool
And kiss it with a fierce and eager lip,
The longing of her panting soul to cool.
I know not with what words of easy scorn
She spoke her wild thought in that holy
place
Or what green shadow of the earth s heart
born ,
Frowned a swift warning on the water s
face.
Long thoughts, faint prayers, far pilgrim
wanderings
Are still the ificense that the gods demand
Of him who, drinking lonely water, sings
And finds a music trembling in his hand.
But she came running, laughing down the
way
From a king’s house of ease and dainty
fare,
Her thought as light as thistledown at play
On the warm ripples of the summer air.
Her white foot touched the moss upon the
stone;
And as she saw the deep, cold water
frown
The more she laughed. The hollow silver
tone
Re-echoed in the darkness down and dow T n.
Fearless through that chill air she lightly
stept
In haste to snatch the holy gift of song ;
And as she stooped where the dim sweetness
slept,
A great sigh ran the wide, green earth
along.
The gods must guard their own. A sudden
fear
Caught at her beating heart in that still
place ;
A cry as of a tempest filled her ear,
Strange eyes gazed through the darkness
on her face.
The angry waters in a tumult loud
Broke in wild oceans beating on no
land....
Ah, girl, the quiet gods are very proud,
The old White Watchers know and
understand.
There was a flood along the Shannon shore;
And one who looked saw a white face
go by,
A cold drowned face that would return
no more,
Drifting out seaward under the dark sky.
And did she find her song? I cannot tell.
But feet unseen go softly on the grass,
And hazels overtop the deep, cool well.
Where few may drink in all the years
that pass.
I cannot see the flutter of her gown,
Nor hear her laughter on the soft May
air. ...
But I will drink below the hazels brown,
For surely I have said my pilgrim prayer.
N.S.W,
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
“Squizzy.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
WITH blood trickling from his lip and
his left eye feeling as if it had
been hermetically sealed and
would never again open, “Squizzy” Barnes
picked himself up from the floor, secured his
hat, which had rolled into a corner, expecto-
rated carefully into the spittoon (he had
long abandoned the habit of spitting on any
portion of the world that was merely handy),
and, with a glance of hatred at the burly
person responsible for his discomfort, edged
his way out of the bar.
“That’s the way to deal- with a blanky
scab,” he heard the burly one inform an
appreciative audience as the swing-door
closed behind him.
In the street Squizzy carefully brushed
the dust from his hat and from clothes
which were obviously too small for him, and
picked a couple of dead matches from his
hair. He would dearly have liked to go back
and deal with the man who had knocked him
down, but Squizzy had sufficient gumption
to know when to get out of the wet, and he
realised that further argument meant his own
annihilation. The term “scab” he deeply re-
sented. He had never been a close student
of politics. All he knew was that there were
two parties —Labor (for which stood Andy
Fisher and Billy Hughes and the "Little
Doctor,” for whom he had always voted) and
the other croWd, led by Joe Cook. It was
because he had expressed a deep admiration
for Billy Hughes that the man in the bar
had become abusive and eventually had taken
direct action.
Squizzy felt that he had a justifiable griev-
ance. This was a nice welcome back to the
world for a bloke who had been dead four
years. During that period Squizzy Barntes
had been leading the simple, strenuous life
in the gloomy stone building at the top of
Russell-street, from which he had only an
hour previously emerged with four pounds
and a few odd shillings in the pockets of a
suit which had been purchased over five
years ago. when, owing to lack of exercise,
paucity of decent food, excessive cigarette
smoking, and other circumstances, he had
been a comparatively thin and weedy
Squizzy. ,
For nearly four years until to-day Barnes
had met nobody from the outside world. For
a month or two after had been sentenced
Myrtle used to come to‘see him, but the nov-
elty of playing the Good Samaritan by visit-
ing her man in gaol had soon begun to wear
thin at the edges, and Squizzy had neither
seen nor heard of Myrtle for three and a
half years at least. He had received visits
from a parson and a spiritualist and a mem-
ber of the Prisoners’ Aid Society, but none
of these belonged to the only worlds Squizzy
knew—the prison world (which was by no
means a bad sort of place) and that other
which was peopled by Myrtle and Jimsey
and Mother Grant, and an army of book-
makers, touts, detectives, mugs, hotel-
keepers, barmaids, police magistrates and
ladies of ridiculously easy virtue.
Leaving the gaol behind him —not without
a twinge of regret, for he had behaved him-
self while there and had got on well enough
with the warders and other inhabitants —
Squizzy, scorning an offer of assistance from
the Prisoners’ Aid Society man, had wan-
dered toward Carlton until he reached, the
Garden of Eden Hotel.' Here it was that he
first realised the truth of the poet’s words:
Nothing waa born ;
Nothing will die ;
All things will change.
Squizzy was not familiar with Tennyson
(James Purtell was the only poet for whose
works he had ever cared)., but in a vague
way his thoughts, half formulated and unex-
pressed, were those which Tennyson had
bumped out to the dimensions of a poem.
The Garden of Eden was no longer kept by
Michael Daly. The unfamiliar barmaid had
never even heard of Michael. The name of
the present licensee was Stewart, and before
him was Mrs. Millwood. Furthermore, the
bar-lady was not acquainted with Jimsey
Steel and Bob Jones was likewise unknown
to her. Squizzy felt that he had wandered
into a strange world, which the drift of pop-
ulation had left practically uninhabited., He
felt a yearning for human companionship,
and when four workmen entered the bar he
had invited them to give it a name. One
drink led to another and the talk had been
of nolitics. Squizzy knew even less of poli-
tics than he did years ago, and it was less
earnest conviction than a pathetic desire to
win approbation that caused him to observe:
“The best ov tli’ ole bunch is Billy ’Ughes.”
The ferocity with which the others dis-
agreed with him had staggered Squizzy. A
brief argument ended with the largest of the
men, with the full approval of his mates,
assaulting him, and it was a very puzzled
Squizzy who now turned his footsteps to-
ward the east, in the hope of meeting some-
one he knew, or, at least, someone who knew
someone he had once known. Why he should
have been assaulted for praising Billy Hughes
he could not understand. To do so in such
company in the old days had been accepted
as a proof of political orthodoxy and a guar-
antee that the speaker was a sane and decent
member of society.
It was at this stage that Squizzy be-
thought him of Myrtle. He did not cherish
a grudge against Myrtle for having neglected
him ; time is a great healer, and that wound
had healed three years ago. In Fitzroy he
called at several pubs, but at none was the
licensee or barmaid the same as in the past.
Squizzy was not aware that beer was no
longer the profitable commodity it had been,
and that in consequence these emporiums
had been changing hands with, unusual
rapidity. Brooding upon the transitoriness of
barmaids, Mr. Barnes reached the' house in
Young-street which he knew as the abode of
Mother Grant, who would be able to tell
where Myrtle was. A knock brought to the
door a stout, affable woman who addressed
him as “Dearie” and told him that Mother
Grant had died a year ago. Squizzy, regarded
this as a dirty trick upon Mother Grant’s
part; it seemed to him that she had just died
to nark him and make him feel more
strange and lonely than ever. The affable
lady knew of Myrtle by name, but could not
say where she lived.
His longing for companionship induced
Squizzy to fall in with the lady’s suggestion
that he should come inside and shout. The
lady’s name was Rosie, and she introduced
him to two other ladies hight Daphne and
Flo. Squizzy bought two bottles of beer
(price four shillings), and accepted a fag;
but, greatly to his surprise, found within
half an hour that lie hated the place, dis-
liked Daphne, was not keen about Flo, and
positively detested the buxom Rosie, whose
stained kimono and dirty finger-nails made
him feel ill. The fact of the matter was that
(Continued on next page.)


Little
Miss
Lilley,
after her
cure by
Zam-Buk.
ZAM-BUK
is proved un-
excelled for cuts,
bruises, scalds',
burns, sores, bad -
legs, ulcers, abrasions, mosquito
bites, abscesses, ringworm, bar-
ber’s rash, scalp troubles, sore
feet, heat rashes, boils, sunburn,
festering sores, piles, sprains,
scabs, eczema, poisoned wounds,
stiffness, and injured and dis-
eased conditions of the skin
generally. From all Chemists
and Stores at 1/6 and 3/6 per
pot, or, post free, direct from
C E. Fulford (A’lasia), Ltd.,
39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
CHILD’S ITCHING SKIN TRODBLE THAT
OTHER TREATMENTS FAILED TO CURE.
Zam-Buk’s Wonderful Healing Powers.
Dry, Itching Eczema attacked little Miss Lilley, completely covering
and disfiguring her face. How Zam-Buk proved the only cure for this
torturing disease is told by her mother, Mrs. A. Lilley, who resides in
Brown Street, North Rockhampton, Q., who writes :
“ My little girl was attacked by awful, dry eczema, which caused her skin to
peel. It was most irritable, and spread all over her face.
“ For weeks she suffered without any sign of the skin healing. In England I had
used Zam-Buk most successfully for all kinds of injuries, so I purchased some here
and treated my girl’s face with it. Zam-Buk banished the irritation and gave her
great ease immediately, and after a very short treatment she was quite well again.
“ Later I was severely bitten on the legs by mosquitoes, and the places irritated
me so much that I scratched them. Then I think that some dye from my stockings
got into them, for they became inflamed and broke out in nasty running sores.
“ I was bad for weeks, and at times the burning inflammation, which seemed
t > sink to the very bone,, was almost unbearable. Zam-Buk, however, soon made
an improvement and healed my legs perfectly.”
Every Home Needs Zam-Buk.
OOTHES AND
h *als.
ASK FOR AND
INSIST ON
ZAM-BUK,
REFUSE
WORTHLESS
SUBSTITUTES.
in the last four years a love of order and
cleanliness had been implanted in Squizzy,
aac * i - e dingy room and'untidy girls, who
at this hour had not washed or powdered—
their toilet having consisted of putting some
color on their lips—revolted him. When he
round Flo on his knees and felt her hot
breath on his face and her nicotine-stained
lingers fondling his hand, lie decided that he
hated her as much as the others. Her neck
was dirty and her loose hair got into his
mouth and made him feel that life out of
gaol was an untidy and disgusting business.
Leaving the Young-street Venusbourg,
Squizzy wandered toward the city. In Little
Bourke-street he entered a cheap restaurant,
at which in the old days he had often ob-
tained lunch before going to the “ponies.”
Here, at last, he found someone whom he
knew. Maude, the cross-eyed waitress, was
still at her post, and it was from her that he
obtained tidings of some of the boys. Jimsey
' vas the war, Bob had gone and been
killed, another was “up the country,”
aiiother was married “an’ goin’ dead square
—reg’lar wowser.” Yet another was “doing
time ’ in the Geelong Gaol; several others,
like Jimsey, were “at the war.” The war
struck Squizzy as a sociable place where
a bloke would meet his old two-up
schoolfellows. While making his meal of
“beef and bullets” he mentally resolved to
consider the question of taking a trip there,
since Melbourne seemed such a dull, friend-
less hole. Squizzy did not enjoy his meal,
for the food was inferior to that to which
lie had been accustomed ; and as a result of
the fastidious taste he had developed in the
spotless home he had left a few hours pre-
viously, he realised that the restaurant was
not nearly as clean as it might be.
Even a stroll down Bourke-street failed to
mitigate his discontent. He met none of his
old cobbers; in four years there had arisen
a generation of “heads” that knew not
Squizzy. So lonely did he feel that lie was
actually pleased to receive a grim nod of
recognition from Detective Nestor.
A minute or two later he experienced his
first moment of pleasure since his release,
the cause being a woman standing outside a
shaving saloon in Swanston-street. Although
the day was warm she wore a heavy fur
coat, and although she must have been nearly
thirty her. skirt barely reached below her
knees. Squizzy recognised the opulent mouth
and bosom, the bold eyes, the impudent tilt
of the chin, as the property of Myrtle Col-
lins. He stopped in front of her and his face
fairly radiated with joy. “How do, Myrtle?”
he remarked.
The lady flashed upon him a haughty
''■lance, then gave a start of recognition.
“Hullo, Squizzy,” she observed, without en-
thusiasm, “when’d you come out?” adding
hastily before he had time to reply: “Don’t
nng around ’ere, for Gawd’s sake; me
’usband ’ll be out in a minute.”
Squizzy was shocked and pained. It
was partly shock and partly gentle-
manly instinct that caused him* to move
awav. When a few yards down the
street he turned and saw a man in khaki
come from the barber’s shop and walk away
with Myrtle. This was the last strawl
Squizzy realised with an acute sense of loss
that he was alone in the world. In a
minute his mind was made up. He wanted
the companionship of his kind, and appa-
rently the only place where he could obtain
it was at the waralthough in the days
before he was nabbed the war had seemed
a vague, remote, unsociable affair. The
Town Hall recruiting depQt he knew was
only a few yards along the street, and to it
he made his way.
Soon he found himself one of a large
crowd in a narrow passage, pushing and
jostling toward a small room. Obviously he
had done the right thing at last. This war
undoubtedly was a tremendously popular
event; people fought to get there as though
it were a race meeting. He noticed with
surprise that there were women in the
crowd. He couldn’t see the sense of women
going to the war, until it occurred to him
that they were going as nurses. After a
long wait and much jostling it was his turn
to enter the little room at the end of the
passage. Here was a man in shirt sleeves
and a nurse.
“Take your coat off,” ordered the man.
Squizzy’s modesty caused him to hesi-
tate—surely he was not going to be
examined in front of the nurse!
“Hurry up,” said the man impatiently,
and Squizzy, who had grown accustomed
to obeying orders, removed his coat.
That which followed happened too quickly
for him to realise what was taking place or
to voice a protest. His shirt sleeve was
rolled up, some smelly stuff was dabbed on
his arm, and he received a stab as from a
needle. Then hf» was handed his coat and
pushed outside the room, the nurse muttering
something about coming back on Monday.
Speechless with indignation, jostled by the
people who were trying to get into the room
and those who were endeavoring to get out,
Squizzy at length found himself in Swan-
ston-street, with a sore arm and a heart
full of bitterness.
In his trouble and mystification he did
a surprising thing—he sought information
from a policeman ! Thus it was he learned
that the war had ended three months ago,
that the recruiting depfit was dosed, and
that he had been inoculated against influ-
enza.
A few hours later his disgust with this
new and unfamiliar world was still further
increased by the discovery that the four £l-
- which had been stowed away in an
inside pocket of his coat were no longer
there. A search made it plain that they
were not in any of his other pockets, and a
knowledge of the wicked world made it
equally plain that they were now stowed
away between the black stocking and white
leg of the girl who had sat on his knees
in the house in Young-street.
Squizzy realised the futility, not to say
foolhardiness, of attempting to recover his
property. His position was a painful one.
He had 4s. 7d. in cash, and did not know
where to look for a" job (not having had
much experience of looking for jobs), the
girl on whom he had lived when ne experi-
enced lean we®ks in the past belonged to
another, all his cobbers had left Melbourne,
the war —which had appeared to offer
opportunities for social intercourse —had
basely fizzl'ed out, just as Mother Grant had,
it seemed to Squizzy, with no other motive
than to nark him ; and the world was full
of unfriendly people who knocked a bloke
down for praising Billy Hughes, and
rooked him for his “dough,” and jabbed
needles into his arm and gave him food on
a dirty plate and tea in a cracked cup and
were consistently unsociable and untidy.
Squizzy a few hours later made yet
another disconcerting discovery, when, re-
solving upom a beer and counfer-lunch, he
found that in this unaccountably mad
world all the pubs had suddenly taken it
into their heads to close, although it was
only 20 past sis;! He was simply stag-
gered. It seemed that the entire population
had joined in an organised conspiracy to
hurt and defraud him at every turn.
After putting in some more miserable
hours, he walked to Henley House, where he
knew sixpenny beds were obtainable and no
questions wejre asked. Owing to the war
and the high cost of living, beds were now
ninepence; it was not this fact, however,
but the close smsll and shabby, uncared-for
appearance of the place, in which he had
frequently lodged in the past, that caused
Squizzy to go away without booking a
bed. This sort of hole was not good
enough for a man who had heen accustomed
to clean blankets and a welLaired cell.
Shortly before 11 o’clock Sduizzy found
himself in Bourke-street. The theatres
were coming out and hundreds of well-
dressed people w§re making for home.' In
imagination Squizzy pictured their nice,
clean beds, and a lump came into his throat.
Then he reached a sudden decision. A dear
old gentleman and a young woman, evidently
his daughter, who was carrying a large, ex-
pensive-looking bag, were cominer down the
street. Squizzy dashed forward, snatched
the bag from the girl's* hand and dodged
among the crowd. In three seconds he felt
his right arm gripped, and, turning, found
himself face to face with Detective Nestor.
“Well, you’re a beaut.!” exclaimed
Nestor; “and only out this morning!
This’ll mean a Kathleen Mavourneen for
you, Squizzy.”
Leaving a policeman to take the names
of the old gentleman and the girl, Nestor
hurried his prisoner into a cab. A con-
stable -who had seen Barnes leave the gaol
that morning strolled into the watch-house.
“Hullo, Squizzy, where’ve you been all this
long time?” he inquired.
Squi.’tzy grinned happily, for he felt that
at last he was among friends. “Just bin
down to th’ city to ’ave a look round,” he
replied.
. “I’ve had me eye on him ever since lunch-
time, ’ remarked Nestor with professional
pride.
Could ’ave tole you that,” replied
Squizzy, ‘“I sore yer.”
The detective laughed incredulously, but
Squizzy did not mind. He was feeling
tired, but happy; and when a few minutes
later he found himself in a reasonably clean
cell in which were neatly folded blankets, he
divested himself of his coat and collar with
a sigh of contentment. He had had quite
enough of the strange, mad, insanitary world
outside. To-morrow he would resume the
clean, well-ordered life to which he had
grown accustomed.
HARRISON OWEN.
After Personal Inspection.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
WHEN the Timber Co.’s new tram-
line came abreast of Tollman’s
land, at Pebbles, the company
was already carrying logs, and the teamsters
cut straight through Tollman’s holding,
fences and all, offering nothing but defiance.
Tollman was a shrimp of a man and 57
next April. Dancing before Carrol’s great,
tearing horses, backed by the formidable
hairy giant Carrol himself, he seemed no
more than a praying-mantis trying to stop
a runaway locomotive. “Out iv me way,
man, will yeh?” thundered Carrol, and with
his forearm wiped Tollman off the track.
There were other carters ; Tollman opposed
them all, a frantic spider-monkey of a man
jigging and screaming; but they all tool?
their cue from Carrol, and poor Bob’s most
dramatic demonstrations went for nothing.
The teamsters’ wheel-ruts ploughed right
past Tollman’s front door, and when Toll-
man threatened the invaders with boiling
water*, he was beset by desperadoes armed
with buckets of cold, who could throw fur-
ther and with more accuracy. He took out
his gun, and the weapon was snapped from
him and a six-horse log went over it. If
Bob was still obstreperous, he was locked
in his own fruit-house.
“Get a lawyer!” was Bright’s earnest
advice. “If they encroached on my land a
foot I’d have a lawyer at ’em. Get a law-
yer !” •
So one day, when he had been tied to a
tree pending the passing of nine logs, Toll-
man tore off to town. He spent three days
in Melbourne, then returned more desperate
than ever, and resumed strenuous and impish
opposition, single-handed as before.
“Get a lawyer, man!” cried Bright, chanc-
ing on Tollman when most passionate over
his grievance. “Why don’t you get a law-
yer?”
“A lawyer !” Tollman shrieked. “A law-
yer ! Haven’t I been to Melbourne? Haven’t
I seen twenty lawyers, and never a one of
the herrin’-gutted, gander-necked brood Car-
rol couldn’t lick with one hand !”
BILLY T.


4 £
i
'.-'A .mV
WESTINCHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINGHGUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93*lo7 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
RuptureD
ARE 1
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? _ Co you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW: it is.
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL.
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can vou ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
849 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
Healthy Liver
Healthy Life
Your liver—healthy or clogged, active or
sluggish—makes all the difference between
vigorous, cheerful life and low spirits and failure.
Banish headache, indiges-
tion, biliousness and ner-
vousness and clear up
sallow, blotchy, pimply
skin with the tried
family medicine.
Carter’s
Little
Liver
Pills.
Purely vegetable.
Small Pill—Small Dose—Small Price
GENUINE must bear signature
4T ..
UR
r •'»
a ®
■ R
$
The Flavour Lasts”!//
vs
We all need sweetmeats—
the children especially.
But they should not eat
sweets to excess, for then
the stomach is harmed.
WRIGLEY'S, the famous chewing
confection, provides a delicious sweet-
meat with long-lasting flavour.
Instead of harming, it benefits all
who use it.
Aids appetite
and digestion.
Quenches thirst.
Keeps teeth
clean and breath
sweet.
3d. per packet.
On sale at
Chemists. Con-
fectioners and
Stores.
J. C. GAMBLES 8 CO.,
Rosebery, Sydney.
AUSTRALIA
oCO
EH
DdD
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be du6 to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. G. ENO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
w-
THE BEST
SMOKE
' IS
YELLOW
ASTER
iw TOBACCO
"—.niffi,-., -
OR OUR SICK AND WOUNDED
, ___ BOYS.—When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Red Cross Book
i r Vpot, Wynyard Street, Sydney.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.


iNGROvrr
LEATHER IP
LTI
Maximum Power.
That is what you want from your belting
service. You can depend upon it when you
use Mangrovite Belting.
MANGROVITE RAWHIDE BELTING
is unequalled for difficult drives. It does not
stretch or slip, Let us prove it on your
power-plant.
Mangrovite Belting Ltd.
(Successors to Charles Ludowici),
49 Wynyard Square (near C. P. o.),Sydney N.S W
Western Australia: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Perth
S'th Australia: John Reid & Sons Ltd., Adelaide
The Eagle 8 Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
379 Kent Street,
Sydney.
264 Latrobe Street, Melbourne; Kalgoorlie and Fremantle, W.A.
Charles Atkins & Co., Adelaide. p axll & Gray Ltd ., Newcastle.
John Reid & Nephews, Brisbane.
KNIVES FOR
WOODWORKING MACHINES
r
t
STEttXo.lii'
— P r-1 M™ ll I I
t,o ”Sfl^, T J M I, TEEI -: C,,TT,NG EDOES - *>«• *'■>■ ■=»<•'•«. »■*«« to r .u, order
whether*°Kr d « thickness, length and width of slots;
necessary? ° r MoVable Bo,ts - I£ Fixed Heads Template absolutely
aa EEi
HARDIE’S “ FIBROLITE”
Genuine Asbestos Cement Sheets
Cost two thirds less to paint than weather-
board. Cheaper in first cost and upkeep.
Fire-proof, Weather-proof, Rust-, Rot- and
Whiteant-proof. Send for particulars and sample.
James Hardie CSI» Co. Ltd.,
Cor. Wynyard & York Streets, SYDNEY.
REFRIGERATING AND
ICE-MAKING MACHINERY.
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNlNG—'which is pertinent to the times
—their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions they can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.” Their strong-
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
We study your requirements and design the layout of your
plant, not only to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience We place at your service.
All
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
J. WILDBIPOE & SINCLAIR LTD.,
97 Pitt
Street,
And at Melbourne, Brisbane
Perth; and Auckland, N.Z.
i
:
L.A. Rowboat Motors
MAGNETO TYPE.
Horse-power 2; Bore of Cylinder 2 5-8
inches; Stroke of Piston 2 % inches;
Weight 621 b."
A light, durable motor, made expressly for attach-
ing to fishing-boats, pleasure-boats, oanoes, etc.
Develops a speed from 6 to 8 miles per hour.
Special price, packed and delivered Free
on Boat or Bails, £25.
Correspondence invited.
D. 8 W. Chandler Pty. Ltd.,
Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
PUMPS
ims
We manufacture what is probably the most extensive and
varied line of Pumps listed by any Australian Manufacturer, and
can at the present time deliver all Standard Heavy Hines listed.
We illustrate Heavy Side Bolt or Well Pumps. These are made
with valves as shown, ball valves or special valves to any specifi-
cation; they are supplied in all sizes, and are regularly listed
from 12in. to Bin. in diameter, by any stroke required. Other Pumps
manufactured include:—
BORE PUMPS, all sizes and strokes, any specification.
DOWNING’S Patent FOOLPROOF Artesian Deep Well
Cylinders.
BALL Valve ARTESIAN DEEP WELL Cylinders.
PUMP CATALOGUE ON REQUEST.
CONTRACT WORK—SendSpecifications
ALDERDICE LTD., Warrnambool
/f
c
HASfn
C
o
o
y
&
*
STt«*2
&ON
Broken Castings
any size, can be reliably repaired by Brazing with aid
of
Patent Lava Flux
Tensile and Torsional Strain maintained.
Heat necessary to weld destroys cast-iron.
Sold in tins: lib., 50/-; lib., 25/-; 20z., 7/6.
Ilb. Flux will braze broken casting 15 feet long by
1 inch thick—instructions round each tin.
Employed by Victorian State Departments and all -over
Commonwealth. Ask your hardware firm or apply to us.
REPAIR YOUR OWN CASTS. NO EXPERT KNOWLEDGE REQUIRED.
CAST-IRON BRAZING CO, (Reg.)
45 Spenser Street, St, Hilda, Vidoria.
DELGO-LIGHT
A complete Electric Light Power
Plant, suitable for Suburban and
Country Houses, Stations, Stores
Hospitals, Schools of Arts, etc.
One Gallon of Kerosene
will light 32 Lamps for 4% hours.
Runs on
Kerosene
Safe.
Reliable
PARTICULARS FROM SOLE AGENTS—
N.S.W. & Victoria: WARBURTON, FRANKI LTD.,
309 Kent Street, Sydney; 380 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: SMELLIE & CO. LTD., Brisbane.
WHAT
ft
'isfect
MEANS
IN THE W OOLSHED.
SMOOTH WORK
SATISFIED SHEARERS
ABSENCE OF DELAY
GOOD TALLIES
VERY FEW RENEWALS
WELL SHORN SHEEP
GENERAL ALL
¥ #
isven
SHEEP
SHEARING
MACHINE
DANGAR GEDYE & C?
SYDNEY.
“RAPID”
ELECTRO-MAGNETIC ORE SEPARATOR.
For Wolfram-Tin, Zinc Blendes, Monazite Sands, etc.
Invented and built, in Britain. Simple in operation. All tuning up may be done whilst Machine is
working'. No Flimsy Cross Belts. An absolute Minimum of Dust. Every part easily accessible.
Separating Magnets can be set finer than any other machine on the market..
GUARANTEED TO GIVE EQUAL EFFICIENCY, AS A MINIMUM, TO ANY GERMAN-DESIGNED
MAGNETIC SEPARATOR.
Agents for Australasia :
GUTHRIDGE LTD.,
CITY
OFFICE-
e Street, Sydney.
iSiS
mm
V
hi !
jr
*§| sfftl
I
• . .1
-i
r‘:
j? 'h|
s -Jy at Ij
m
