

...
'
' ‘ ■■■■' ■;
■
?
in
: . -
Mm
■
mi 1
-
■'S®
■ r:
i >
< ■ v-
•: V :s
f ‘-’t:
■'■ .<
.
Efifill
■
,
*♦
.
HHb
'V |
v
’ . '.I '1 ■
< '-f f
/v.' .
Wi
<4
ff
Wh
mg
The Xmas Bulletin
Saturday, December 13, 1919.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Feice 6d.


DoNT LET YOUR GENEROUS FRIEND W<o TAKES YOU OUT FOOT THE WOLE OF THE
andG.v/n *lbpned and Generous manner
and Gtw. Him a Uscfuf 'Presenf. Let us assist You
m Choice by direcfrin<p {fie Spotffiohf- cf Sucpcf>esf-[on
MOTOR M 1
or) cx
which as Owner oPanu Car
wouid be dePicpfifed to receive.
Tliese and mam] Others io be had From
cs=o
C-) c;=o ci=o esa a Si
o=o C3=o o=o
V/ARNiNG
SIGNAI- 5
25/'
■ 274
TOO 1 -
ais
JACKS
O'*
o
from
7/6
254
HOur C3r
Cheats
15-
obept C. dmnl \Lo„L fa 304 flit
3f.,sifdneu.—-
S iO N
C° r
55
S£T5
0
: to 3°'
€et -700u30^ £5 SO/
GMT
po'f- 1
35/
Complete
SICKLeN SP&ZD
°VCT (
n« r
Q
I —l D Sd
7zi to 105/,
The Red Page
Let Us Go Columbusing
Romantic Literature has struck a snag—
a dead-end—the bottom of a sack. Adven-
ture into the Unknown, on which so much
healthy literature was built, has grown sud-
denly old and used up, and the loss of it is
great.
The supply of new continents gave out
early. The job of investigating continents
and finding new animals and new peoples
lasted longer and supplied much material
for writing and reading. There still re-
mains the Antarctic continent to be
thoroughly explored, but that can’t be done
till the ice is removed, and the necessary
apparatus isn’t perfected yet. It exists,
and we know perfectly well how to melt
and shift ice, but it will probably be a few
years before we know how to shift enough
ice. So the stupendous mineral deposits
sbuth of us can’t be used yet, though it
might be as well to organise a syndicate and
be ready.
lor the rest, Africa 100 years ago was
probably less known than it was 2000 years
ago. The tide of exploration and civilised
settlement had gone back and information
had been washed out. Now Africa, re-
garded as a mystery and wonder and
romance, has been blithered off the map inside
a lifetime. So has Japan as a closed book
to outsiders. So have the hermit kingdoms
of Korea and Tibet. So has Polynesia.
The innermost parts of China are more or
less known. There are places that the
spotlight shines on less fervently than
others, and there are shadowy places; but
the nearest approach to blackness and
mystery is probably about the upper waters
of the Amazon, and unless a myth-proof
fence is built round it the world will soon
have nothing geographical to wonder about.
IV o one can wonder much about the head
waters of the Parramatta.
i'he romance of the finding of strange
peoples is about finished. The men who
wear their heads beneath their shoulders,
and the dog-headed people, and the three-
eyed people (the other eye being in the
back of the head), and the one-eved people
(the orb being set in the middle of the fore-
head) were used up long ago. The red men
have been found and didn’t prove so red
as they should be. The black men have
been discovered in their inmost fastnesses,
and their blackness was disappointing. The
giants have been hunted up and annexed in
Patagonia, and proved 22ft. shorter than
legend made them, and their giant children
can learn in an ordinary-sized schoolroom.
The dwarfs have been run doAvn and
measured in Africa, and proved 2ft. longer
than some people supposed and quite unfit
to be put in an ordinary milk-jug.
The romance of the' finding of new re-
ligions never amounted to very much. Nowa-
days so many religions have been found that
they are a drug in the market. As for
hunting or big-game fiction, it belongs
almost wholly to a past age. The chase of
the aurochs and the mammoth finished very
early. The dragon and the sea-serpent fur-
nished great sport for a while, but
apparently the supply was limited and there
was lack of a close season. The buffalo
has passed away—he passed, by reason of
the value of his hide, almost before the
white man got to know him. The lion has
got down to being run over by trains, and
the wild elephant has become so ordinary
in his best old haunts that he is spoken of
as a “crop” and the taking of him is officially
supervised. The Iroquois Indian and the
Mohican and the Devil no longer afford good
hunting and good .fiction. Sundry bears and
tigers are left, and there are a few rabbits.
There remain:—
The war story, but this war has been
such a stunning calamity that people are
apparently too sick to write much about it.
Anyhow, for such a big event the output
of fiction is amazingly small.
The love romance, the divorce romance,
the tale of mean streets, the financial
swindle tale and the yarns of detection, re-
flection, insurrection and melancholy intro-
spection—all as per usual.
The romance of the peerage, showing how
the young Earl of Fitzdotterel proved his
innocence and returned with his beautiful
wife to Fitzdotterel Hall (filled with price-
less works of art), amid the applause of
the faithful tenantry, the base conspiracy of
Henry Bloggs having been exposed- and con-
founded. Owing, however, to the discovery
that the British peerage has been levying
about £8,000,000 a year blackmail on the
coal industry, there is a tendency to do
away with it. Certainly fewer women than
of old are likely to weep over the woes of
the Earl of Fitzdotterel. Some may even
wish that Henry Bloggs had succeeded. Yet
Henry is a coarse person who was once a
bushranger in Pyrmont.
Amid the general lack of something new
and thrilling and unscientific and easily
understanded to write about, it is strange
to think that an undiscovered country 7900
miles across is lying at the very doorstep of
the Commonwealth Bank. This land is un-
-6 • un t r °dden and unsurveyedT And
dJoO miles of it straight ahead belongs to
us; also as much more as we like to plunder
if we get there first. In a lateral way,
with our undersea mining rights, we own
probably more than any other people on
eartii.
, Australia the deepest bore goes down
about a mile and the deepest shaft rather less
Jn mi e ‘ • rh . e rest is “ystery. Strangely
one has expired this unmapped
land for the mere love of exploration. It has
merely been scratched by Private Enterprise
in a commercial sense. A humble scrap of
the money which has been spent on one ex-
pedition in search of a North Pole (which
wouldn t, except on the Canadian side,' be
the British Empire’s Pole even if found)
would have done a lot of digging in the Em-
pire sown territory. And there might have been
something rich there, whereas nothing was
expected at the Pole except frozen water.
±he money that is spent even in Australia
on observatories for staring rudely at other
people s stars would pay,, in time, for a com-'
prehensive look at our own little star, which
13 m ,? r ? im P°rtance. Some of the things
We «7, on f know about are these•
V\ hether what we regard as the bedrock of
the world is really bedrock, or only a skin
over something else.
Whether the great deposits of metal are
not really miles down and have been neg-
lected while we scuttled around on the sur-
tac«. Also whether there may not be new
metals there.
Whether there is anything in the wonder-
fully persistent old theory that the earth Is
nollow, with a miniature firmament inside
an <J , tw o miniature planets revolving in it
? , Jjttle seas and lakes and rivers, and
inhabitants, and politics, and great natural
resources, and vegetables growing upside
down on the roof and upside up on the
lioor. If there are inhabitants the one thing
they can t know about is what we call
bpace, and for want of that knowledge they
can t know about Infinity and Eternity,
therefore missions would be strictly in order.
Whether, should we find the great hole —
a perfect whale of a hole —our waters woulc
tali into it and leave us dry, or its waters
would burst out and make us wet.
Whether the results of the search, in short
might not upset our preconceived ideas of
everything, and revolutionise everything, anc
disclose reefs and lodes of information com-
pared with which the recent finding of the
library of King Ashur-bani-pal would be
merely the discovery of a new comma in a
wilderness. Also whether we might not be
furnished, with so much thrill that no one
would feel tired ’for ,100 years.
Wherefore, —
Let us go Columbusing-r-downwards where
no man has ever really Columbused before.
The annual cost of the new Bureau of
heience and Industry—a mere nothing, scuf-
fling about on the old crust of things—would
m the course of years do marvels of explora-
tion.
And if the great hole is discovered, and is
quite empty, and our atmosphere falls
through before the shaft can be plugged up,
a great wind will blow on the surface of the
earth, and some men will be sucked in along
with much furniture and cattle, and the
human race will die and go to Heaven, which
is the best place it could go to. On the other
hand, if the compressed atmosphere inside
blows out, then we will have more atmos-
phere and consequently more rain. And if
many hundreds of miles of research yield no-
thing, we will, have at least the satisfaction
of knowing that there is nothing, and it is
something to know that. The matter is full
of possibilities, and only cowards shirk possi-
bilities.
JAMES EDMOND.
Political Poets
To begin at the beginning, the very
founder of our constitutional liberties, Wil-
liam Charles Wentworth, was a verse-maker
of some ability. While a young man he
wrote in the eighteenth-century fashion on
“Australasia” for a prize offered at Cam-
bridge University. He did not win the
prize, but his lines addressed to “Celestial
Poesy,” asking her to come down and bless
Ins native land, and prophesying that the
said land would become a new Britannia in
another world, are still remembered, while
the prize-winner’s effort has long since been
forgotten. Wentworth also wrote in verse
a attack on a N.S.W. military
officer, which caused a stir at the time and
got the young man's father into trouble.
When he entered politics in earnest he wrote
no more verse.
Dr. John Dun'more Lang, a militant cleric,
nery politician, journalist, historian, philo-
sopher and true patriot, published a little
book called “Aurora Australis, or Specimens
or Sacred Poetry for the Colonists of Aus-
tralia,” at Sydney in 1826. Some of the
verses are not exactly sacred. Here is one
with a title reminiscent of Wordsworth :
Paraphrase and Translation of a song of the
Blacks of Hunter’s River, composed on the eve of
an Expedition to Port Macquarie, the Elizabeth
Henrietta, a colonial schooner, being at - the time
anchored off Newcastle, and a Fresh Breeze blowing
up the Bay,
Swift-footed warriors of our band,
Haste ye and do not tarry,
Gird ye like men from white man's land
And hie to Port Macquarie.
There will you .see the great canoe
Sheltered from every breeze,
Although she rolls and pitches now
In yonder stormy seas!
The original is not given ; anyhow, it could
hardly have been worth while paraphrasing
if the above is a fair version.
In 1873 Dr. Lang published his “Poems:
Sacred and Secular,” and amongst the
secular contents was a fling at Governor
Macquarie.
’Twas said of Greece two thousand years ago
That even' stone i’ the land had got a name.
Of New South Wales, too, men will soon say so, too;
But every stone there seems to get the same.
“Macquarie” for a name is all the go;
The old Scotch Governor was fond of fame:
Macquarie-street, Place, Port, Fort, Town, Lake, River;
“Lachlan Macquarie, Esquire, Governor,” for ever!
Wm. Forster, one time Premier of N.S.W.,
issued three books of verse, mostly dramatic.
His style is creditable, some of his lyrics
being distinctly good ; but the long poetical
dramas are on the shelf of the unread.
Robert Lowe, afterwards Viscount Sher-
brooke, and the British Minister who pro-
posed to tax matches, took part in N. S.
Wales politics for a time, and wrote verse
for the Atlas, published in Sydney in the
’forties, to which William Forster also con-
tributed. In 1885 his “Poems of a Life,” a
slender volume, was published in London,
where, later, he died. Some Australian
enemy had prepared in advance an epitaph
for him :
Here .lie the bones of Rgbert Lowe—■
A faithless friend; a bitter foe.
Who knows , now Robert Lowe is dead
Whither his restless spirit’s fled ?
If to the realms of peace and love,
Concord no longer reigos above';
But if’t has found a lower level,
We must commiserate the Devil.
A most important figure in our political
history was Henry Parkes, who published
verses which are amongst our worst. So
far back as 1842 appeared “Stolen
Moments.” with these lines on Opossum
Shooting:—
The ready gun was raised, and flashing free,
Fired in the moon’s pale face ; the wounded creature
A moment in the agonies of nature,
Held by its clasping tail, with struggling form
Impendent ’midst encircling boughs; then warm
With life, but lifeless) fell at the tree’s base.
He was capable of rhyming “there sees” with
“images,” and “swelling” with “Helen” ; he
printed a solemn address to “a froggie on
a loggie” and a paean in praise of “Ragged
Jane” :
I would not give my ragged Jane
For all the peacock ladies going;
She knows the way to banish pain;
What she don’t know is not worth knowing,
Which is an improvement on the earlier
grammatical triumph :
Our home is in the wild bush far,
Of peaceful homes the boonest;
Where the kangaroo and emu are,
Which flee the white man soonest.
Undismayed by ridicule, Henry Parkes pub-
lished six volumes of verse in his long life-
time, the last appearing in 1895. They
form a picturesque commentary on the life
of a brave man and one who was something
more than a politician. Though none of
his verses are poetry, some of them are
reasonably good; and all are honestly felt.
The late George Reid’s masterpiece has
a special interest because it is the only
one of his metrical efforts printed in book
form, and he tried in vain to suppress it.
The modest title is: “Lines Addressed to
New South Wales on the Occasion of Her
International Exhibition” “(Sydney, 18(H).
It breathed sentiments of loyalty and Free-
trade, and many noble aspirations such as
these:—
Thy sunny plains so long the paradise of brutes
Will now be blessed with cultivation’s choicest fruits,
And where the horrid fires of cannibals had glowed
Perchance become of Christ-like love the calm abode.
And it reproved the world’s ignorance of
the Mother State in language not to be
misunderstood:—
Alas! the space that shields thee from all foreign
harms
Hides from the outer world thy most attractive
charms.
Indeed, in Paris but a very short time back,
Some of thy daughters' were disowned because not
black.
Dr. Arthur Renwick, another knight, was
at one time member for East Sydney in the
Legislative Assembly, a seat also held by
George Reid and fiercely contested by Henry
Parkes. Renwick was better known as a
physician than as a poet; but he is respon-
sible for “Life’s Comedy, or the Secret of
the Passion Flower and other Poems” (Ox-
ford, 1894), and “Atlantis,” for private cir-
culation only.
A politician contemporary with those last
mentioned and still remembered in Windsor
William Walker, M.L.C., published several
pamphlets and a lecture on Australian
poetry, which are of historical interest. In
his “Poems Written in Youth” (Sydney
1S84) there is a charming trifle on* “The
Bachelors’ Ball”:
In all their charms arrayed within the brilliant hall
Sat ladies smiling sweetly, blooming one and all.
The Hawkesb'ry’s beauty ne’er was seen in such a
light,
'And they who were not there lost a truly grand sight.
A South Australian politician, Mr. Robert
Caldwell, M.P., author of nine books of
verse, issued “A Vision of Toil and other
Poems” (Adelaide, 1875), in which there is
a touching domestic piece that comes in
appropriately after the glitter of the
Bachelors Ball.” It is called “Crumbs Not
fewept Up, and these are some of them:
And next morning ere the housewife
Made the well-trod floor her care,
I was sitting in a kind of
Humble meditation there.
There were little bits of cotton,
Little bits of woollen thread,
Little bits of woven texture y
Here and there, and crumbs of bread.
There were hollow places showing
In the once cemented floor,
And the feet of the big table *
And the feet of chairs were wore.
Coming back to N. S. Wales, Alfred Allen,
M.L.A for Waverley (where the poets are
buried), certainly looked like a poet and
published “Australian Verse Drift” (Sydney,
1883), which really was a good title.' Ilis
colleague themember for Paddington, Colonel
John Cash Neild, was the author of “Songs
Neath the Southern Cross” (Sydney, 1896),
wherein appeared the classic lines beginning:
‘Lftsoons the nocent waterspout.” His
address to the sea is entirely original:—
The sea ! the sea ! the open sea !
How many utter I)raise of thcc, . ‘ \
Their ravings cut me to the quick
for when I’m on the sea I’m ,
When on the sea I think that I
Am sure of nothing but 'to die..
My conscience gives me many a prick,
At any rate I’m very . \-
Aud so on, with stern chidings, for seven
stanzas,, which may be compared with
Byron’s seven to the ocean, in “Child?
Harold.” In a similar admonitory mood he
put mosquitoes in their place:—
Mosquitoes, . you nasty insects ! M
Horrid mosquitoes, ?/ ;,
How I wish you’d cease attacking
My poor tortured nose.
When I started for Australia
Little thought had I
How I should be ’ bled and maddened
By this awful fly.
Chorus:
Mosquitoes, vile mosquitoes!
Dreadful are my woes
When you’re buzzing round and nipping
At my tortured nose.
Other N.S.W. politicians who have writ-
ten verse are Dowel"! O’Reilly, occasionally
capable of poetry and very good prose; Ken-
neth Mackay, M.L.C.. a capital stirrup-
jingler in his day; Will M. Fleming, a
sturdy bush bard, and J. C. L. Fitzpatrick,
who does more poetical work at the Trea-
sury than he did when filling space on the
Inky Way.
There are others in Australian politics
who have perpetrated verse. Ex-Chief Justice
Samuel Griffith, for so long Premier of
Queensland, published a translation of
Dante’s “Inferno,” but nothing of his own;
Peter Airey, a former Treasurer of Queens-
land, has turned out a large quantity of
clever verse; and Benjamin Hoare, of Vic-
toria, are names that come at once to the
mind. The Australian rhymes easily, and
many of him rhymes well—look at our army
of soldier-poets. But it is clear that if a
man writes verse in his youth he cannot
become a good politician in his prime unless
he deserts the muse. Should he be faithful
to her and: to politics, both suffer —we all
suffer. ’
FRANK GRAYSON.


WE THANK YOU.
5k
q\9
\
Vi
N N
%
r-
<y>
f
i?
SV
\
/
V
r
Sgr
n
r
««
a
>
AND EXTEND TO ALL THE SEASON’S GREETINGS FOR THE HAPPIEST
OF HAPPY CHRISTMASES AND A PROSPEROUS NEW YEAR.
MEGGITT LTD.
WORKS: PARRAMATTA.
(The Pioneer Linseed Oil and Linseed Oil Meal
Manufacturers of Australia),
26 King Street, SYDNEY
HEGGITTS
PN'fraoß^
w
nEGorn l t .»
\ FttfIRAMATTA
The Boy on the Bag
guarantees quality,


If
*\W ; >3 -j
£*&* H*y•'’£ v \4 -L **■,;* 1 * v-A :
jbMsW&Js
;v'i
£ , • t > . * / *
*; - ( v*;.-.v v ; ..’
V *
Y> A>S‘*v«•• .."-&• > < ' .*•!, - ,
■ : }\.f j’j-y,v'w.- ;»«-. { . v'■ '..
v*-
A ' **'
" f £l%
>. *>, 4-*i
*» -■
ss
mm
f ’ * ’
mm
itfk
k*
\y t Wmk&
mm
--
’ • ■ ?Sv ir
■ •: >%lp
■ -£*'sgpj!yi
/fjr
».< ?<s* 5
•?.« *-%%
V -----
« p*-> >• «,
Jtojr
fesfiKi
S «
m
w*
m
fair 5l »
W/S&VWN*'.
&iw4V-^ v V v.-i
; v saP- /..■{. j' a»• *'•■'■ ••
YMi >-‘f
•.•//•■•: "./•>: '
ff/* V*> v i* A 1 f 1 tf*
< i ? y
y *
*>: j..> ».<•< <.. ; v »
; ~uP <■;• ■ v -•*
:fk ; V,>' *,*• •', ?
<
-1. » ■
n*ifep’£- }■ y
•.
•>. < 'Jr ' '..'
W t / *.;> I- l . ,r ,
Av'" *•
l :?:f ■' i'
•^’ v ; ' sy.v' j
- • '■•. ‘.I c"
.SMITH 6-
JULIUS
JTUDi^f
STEEL--
THE WORD IS A MAGIC ONE.
COAL, IRON, and STEEL made Britain and America.
Neither country would have achieved progress without these
essentials.
Industrially, Australia has no future unless its coal and iron
deposits are worked to make steel.
Fortunately the big business men of Australia recognise
this, and are more agreeably placing their orders with
Australian manufacturers.
To-day hundreds of tons of steel-made articles are being pn>
duced in Australian workshops, and the line thing is that
the home made article can hold its own with the imported
line under any condition of work. The Australian work is
steadily sweeping prejudice aside. Common sense advises,
and experience shows, that no one country holds the mon-
opoly of the secret of steel making. Exact knowledge, care-
fully and thoroughly applied, is required.
The simple truth ts that the Australian manufacturer and the Australian
workman can produce a commodity equal to anything cast anywhere
For seven years the Chas. Ruwolt Pty. Ltd. has successfully made steel.
They were the first steel makers in the Commonwealth to manufacture
cast-steel centres for locomotives and carriage wheels To-day their work
will stand any required inspection and test
Write for Catalogue dealing comprehensively with the making of steel castings fot copper
and iron ore reduction works, matte and slag ladles, blast furnace jackets, gears, trucks, and
mining and general engineering. Send your drawings and full particulars to—
Victoria St*, RiCHMOND^Victoria.


KTmi
tkfigßf t
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
s
gill
vw
85£
igh s v.•
Gw
V.
lea®®.
'<FW&£*ais
&W£&k-
>:*
<•(!
V
sisF&g
hX
v*r
‘Jr
w
K!
f
»yV/
&.4
o^>v
\ \
-gfr*
2&mc
vf r*\ t
fc.sA
vNN
/A;
u&amm
«a
$
Bridges.
Mining plants
erected or /
demolished
Bridge
M Mining plants
SS, erected or /
R
i
rrrrr
The World’s greatest metal
worker is OXY-ACETYLENE
IN the manufacture of metal products, in the
erection and demolition of metal structures,
for repairing broken or worn parts of machinery in all in-
dustries, for keeping agricultural implements and automobiles
on the move, and saving metal kitchen utensils, broken
garden tools, etc., from the scrap heap, the supremacy of
the OXY-ACETYLENE PROCESS is firmly established.
" COM OX ” Welding and Cutting Equipments are at work in
most of the metal industries throughout Australia—engineering
workshops and garages find them a necessary part of their equip-
ment to combat the expense of buying new parts. Millions of
cubic feet of Oxygen have been dispatched from our works this
year, to reduce the cost of cutting and joining cast and wrought
iron, mild steel, brass, copper, aluminium, and gunmetal. Steel
mills, foundries, shipyards, engineering shops, boilermakers, mines,
motor garages, manufacturers of sheet metal products, and factories
of all kinds find Oxy-Acetylene Welding and Cutting Outfits a
valuable adjunct to their business.
The New "COMOX” BLOWPIPES with INTERCHANGE-
ABLE HEADS should be of special interest to all shops handling
a variety of general repair work. Motorists, farmers, and house-
holders everywhere are fast realising that Oxy-Acetylene Welders
are great fellows for saving money. Don’t buy new metal parts
or tools ! Ask us for booklet, and address of your nearest Oxy-
Acetylene Welder.
AGENTS
Fyvie &C Stewart, 362 Collins
St., Melbourne, Alex Ingram
& Co., Wyatt St., Adelaide,
Evans, Deakin 8i Co.. 121
Eagle Street, Brisbane
Oxygen G? LG
FOV S 7 BALMAIN
S’i’DNE'V N S-W
* V V
AGENTS
Harrison Bros 8i Co Ltd ,
20 Patterson St.. Launceston
Geo. Wills Si Co Ltd., Mur-
ray Street, Perth : Brown Si
loske, Suva, Fiji


Si
Mm
rst
p-
cs
*«•*✓*"
&
s
U
(A
V-Ji
m
MARK FOY S have this year excelled themselves in their judgment and selection of? appropriate Christmas Gift Offerings.
We feature below several acceptable Gift ideas from our Jewellery and Silverware sections. These articles are backed by
guarantee of absolute satisfaction and dependability in use.
MAKE CHOICE FOR CHRISTMAS NOW.
When ordering from this advertisement please quote number of article.
our
Bloo.—9ct. Gold Brooch,
set with Pearls, 21 /-
Blol.—Gold \V reath
Brooch!' set Pearls and
Tourmalines. .. 15/-
8102.—9 ct. Gold AVish-
bone, Floral Brooch,
8103. —Gold-mounted
Pink and White
Cameo Brooch,
27/6
Others to.. 75/-
8104.—-9 et. Gold Circle
and Pearl Set Floral
Brooch ... 18/6
8105.—9 ct. Gold Pearl
and Ruby Circle
Brooch .... 15/-
8106.—15 ct. Gold Double
Crescent Brooch, set
Turquoise and Pearls,
52/6
8107 9ct. Go I d-mounted
Necklet and Pendant, set
with Topaz and Pearls,
m
8108. —Gold Knob Hatpins,
2/6, 3/6, 4/6
s'
i
8113. —Case of Silver-plated Pickle Fork, Jam Spoon and
Butter Knife 12/6
8116 Case containing 2 Jam Spoons and Butter Knife.
Price 10/6
8109.
Gent.’s Ebony Brushes, Silver-mounted, real
bristles.
Prices, 6/6, 7/6, 10/6 to 15/- each.
Pair of Gent.’s Ebonyßrushes and Comb, in
neat leather case, from . .., 22/6
Gent.’s Ebony Brush Set, Silver-mounted, con-
sisting- of 2 Hair Brushes, Comb, Cloth and
Hat Brush. Price 35/-
Ladies’ Real Ebony Hair Brushes, Silver-
mounted, real bristles,
10/6, 12/6, 15/-, 21/- each.
msm
o» r* x
«s>MI
Bll4.—Lady’s Gold Expanding Wristlet Watch, £4/15/-
others £5/5/-, £5/10/- to £B/10/-
8117.—9 ct. Gold Nellie
Other sizes
Stewart Bangle 22/6
27/6, 32/6, 40/-
rrfsrZ
fm
"IwKsa;
Wmmm
■BI2O. —Silver-plated Hair Tidy
or Puff Box 12/6
Bl2l.—Silver-plated Silk-lined
Jewel Case, size 4}in. x 24in.,
Bl22.—Finest Quality Silver-plated Butter Dish,
with cut-glass drainer 52/6
8118. —Silver-plated Flower
Vase, height sjin., 3/6
6iin 4/6
8110.-—lsct. Gold Links,
3«s> i _
9ct. Gold Links .. 18/6
Silver 4/6
Bill.—Oct, Gold Links,
15/-
Many other patterns.
BXl2.—9ct. Gold Neck-
let and Pendant,
set with Amethyst,
22/6
8115. Silver-plated Jam Spoon and Butter
case, 8/6. With Pearl Handles
FOR
BABY
of®
8119.—9 ct. Gold Bangles, fit any
wrist .... 12/6, 13/6, 15/-
¥S7
31
8123 Silver-plated Sweet Stand 16/6
Liverpool, Castlereagh
and Elizabeth Streets,
SYDNEY.
Liverpool, Castlereagh
and Elizabeth Streets,
SYDNEY.


-
0
A>e °^uie < 1 1 „ <^° v
A%e
resfwrij
& . v>' o e<^
°>
jisiralian
Wentworth Avenue
SYDNEY
<§>
Cr. of; Queen Little Collins Sts
MELBOURNE
r in Jill States and JlewXealand.


A BOON to Owners of Farm
Engines, Motor Boats,
Motor Trucks, and
Industrial Engines of
Every Description.
PHILLIPS’ PATENT No. 8584
o
A Marvellous NEW INVENTION Which
Makes Gas from Charcoal and Water
TYPE
4 Gas Producer
for General Purposes.
C Rapid)— —
GAS PRODUCER PIANTS
For Attaching: to Engines
(Complete with all Fittings as
TYPE A. illustrated.)
WITHOUT HOT WATER SUPPLY
TANK.
Size 1. for 3 B.H.P. Engines .. £3O
Size 2, for 4 B.H.P. Engines .. £35
Size 3, for 5 B.H.P. Engines .. £4O
Size 4, for 7 B.H.P. Engines . . £5O
Size 5, for 10 B.H.P. Engines .. £6O
Size fi, for 12 B.H.P. Engines .. £75
Size 7, for 15 B.H.P. Engines .. £9O
Size 8. for 20 B.H.P. Engines .. £lOO
Size 9, for 25 B.H.P. Engines .. £125
Prices for larger sizes on application.
TYPE B.—(DAIRYMAN).
WITH HOT WATER SUPPLY
TANK, ean be supplied. Sizes 1 to
3, £lO extra.
When asking for quotation of plants
to attach to existing Engines, give
full details, including the following:
Make of Engine.
Horizontal or Vertical.
Are valves in head V
Is Head removable?
Horse-power.
Stroke and Bore.
Revolutions per minute.
Portable or Stationary.
Hit-and-Miss or Throttle Gov-
erned.
When Piston is in head, what is
distance between top of piston
and cylinder head ?
tißapicD
TYPE B Gas Producer with Hot
Water Supply Tank for Dairies, etc.
IT has long been acknowledged that a gas plant producing motive power from charcoal or similar products was THE solution
to the problem of the rapidly increasing cost of fuel; but, unfortunately, in the past such plants have been confined almost
wholly to large corporations and public institutions. They were not practical for small power-engines, and the outlay necessary
to purchase the large plants was beyond the average consumer’s pocket.
o Rapid)
Thoroughly Practical on Any Size Engine.
THE GAS PRODUCER works with the same ease and efficiency on a 2H.P. Engine as it does
100H.P. size, and it can be purchased at a cost within the means of any man who requires power or heat for any purpose.
on a
C Rapid?
Contains Patented
Features Never Before Used.
Unique
GAS PRODUCER contains several unique features, which have been fully covered by patents in
It can be started up from cold and set in complete operation in less than 1 0 minutes, and its capacity
for producing gas quickly, in enormous quantities and of an unusually rich quality, has proved a marvel to engineers who have
made a life-study of Gas Producers.
THE
every country on the globe.
KjZaplcD
THE ~ GAS PRODUCER constitutes a complete apparatus for converting the heat energy of charcoal
and water into gas, which can be used for driving internal combustion engines, generating steam, heating lead for canister factories,
stereotype and linotype machines, etc., heating water, cooking, lighting, etc.
THE C RapicD GAS PRODUCER generates an exceptionally good gas for operating internal combustion engines.
It is absolutely free from dust or residue, and any kind of engine will run almost indefinitely without any cleaning.
There is no fouling of the spark-plugs or valves. There is no possibility of flooding or choking in starting as occurs with petrol or
kerosene engines, and no expert knowledge is required to start or operate the “RAPID” GAS POWER PLANT. There is no
danger from explosion or fire. It is safe and reliable, and fool-proof.
WHAT IT COMPRISES.
First, a Generator in which the gas is made. The Generator is so constructed that it is constantly consuming a small
stream of water, turning it into steam almost instantly, and passing it down between the jacket and an intensely hot fire wall, pre-
heating the steam to an extremely high temperature before passing it up through the fire, thereby securing not only a rapid volume
of gas, but a product of very high quality.
Second, a Scrubber for cooling and cleaning the gas as it comes from the Producer. After passing through the Scrubber
the gas is thoroughly cool and passes on ready for use.
Third, a substantial cast-iron base, with built-in water container, which serves as a trap or air-lock for the overflow pipes,
from the dust collector, scrubber, etc.
A 12-H.P. Type A Plant complete weighs under 2cwt.
Where desired, a patented Hot-water Supply Tank can be placed between the gas generator and the scrubber, as shown
in the Type “B” Dairy Plant, illustrated on this page. The dust-box is built in the centre of this supply tank, and, as the intensely
hot gas passes through the dust-box, the surrounding water is brought to a scalding heat in less than an hour and a half’s time.
This auxiliary is found invaluable by dairymen or others who require a supply of hot water for washing up milking utensils, etc.
COOPER ENGINEERING CO. LTD.
129 Sussex Street, SYDNEY.


INVALUABLE for Canister
Factories, Leading and
Galvanising Plants, Cook=
ing, Lighting, and all
Healing Purposes.
PHILLIPS’ PATENT No. 8584
Places Power Within the Reach of All.
for ONE-TENTH THE COST OF PETROL.
FILLS A LONG-STANDING WORLD-WIDE NEED,
Cheap to Buy, Cheap to Run, Starts Quickly, Lasts for Years.
SAFE, CLEAN AND EFFICIENT.
SO SIMPLE A CHILD CAN OPERATE IT.
—o RaplcD
Gas Power
Plants
(Complete with Engines, as
illustrated.)
TYPE AA.
WITHOUT HOT WATER SUPPLY
TANK.
Size
1 with 3 B.H.P. Cooper Engine £95
2 with 4 If.P. ~ £125
3 with 6 H.P. „ „ £165
4 with 8 H.P. „ „ £235
5 with 10 H.P. „ „ £260
6 with 12 H.P. „ ~ £315
7 with 15 H.P. „ ~ £360
Prices for larger sizes on application.
TYPE BB.— (DAIRYMAN). >
WITH HOT WATER SUPPLY
TANK, can be supplied. Sizes 1 to 3,
£lO extra.
The Engines quoted here are known
throughout Australia for their ster-
ling qualties of construction. They
are throttle governed. All cylinders
have extra liners of special close-
grained grey iron. Magnetos are
latest quick-start oscillating type.
The workmanship and finish
throughout are the best. Sizes 3 to
0 H.P. are Hopper Cooled, as illus-
trated. with extra water-cooling
tanks if desired. Larger sizes 8 HP.
anil ii». are Screen Tank Cooled,
with Water Crculating Pump, etc.
«■■■
ax
Rea.i what a Prominent Dairyman says
about this TYPE 888 3-Horsepower
KJtapid}
GAS FdWER PLANT.
Before installing the ‘Rapid’ Gas Producer m were averaging four gallons c f netrol per week, which> cost ifa'n ewt~
every four weeks. Since installing the Gas Producer, one of my neighbors lit- been burning the charcoal lor me for ~ per c t.,
everj iour wceiih. niiit'c iumuiuhk t.. *i 10 Bav i n , r in
and we have used not more than 4cwt. of charcoal per month, operating the engine 3 hours a (1 »> • n nil «h own* . ivnnderfnl
cost of fuel has been enormous. We can start up the Plant from cold easily in o minutes The engme has shown wonderful
improvement in service and ease of operation with the ‘Rapid* Gas Producer, and my so * v
slightest difficulty . ,
“The Outfit has done all you claim for it, and more. It is certainly all the name indicates—‘Rapid and Rfflcient.
“(Sgd.) P. J. Saunders, Pleasant Hills, Smithtown, 11/9/ 19.
A COMPARISON.
A
MOST exhaustive test with various types of engines to produce 58.H.P. for 8 hours constant
comparative cost of fuel for one hour’s running—
Gas Power Engine
Steam Engine
Town Gas Engine
running gave the following
1 -3d.
Kerosene Engine
Petrol Engine
Consumed 51b. of charcoal in one hour at 50/- per ton—l
Consumed 421 b. of coal in one hour, at 40/- per ton 9d.
Consumed 90 cubic feet in one hour, at 4 6 per thousand feet sd.
Consumed gallon of kerosene in one hour, at 2/2 per gallon -1 1.
Consumed \ gallon of petrol in one hour, at 3 2 per gallon 1/7.
The above figures tell their own story, and show the enormous saving in operation with the “Rapid’’ Gas Power Plant.
The charcoal is taken at 50/- per ton, but the majority of those installing plants burn their own charcoal without difficulty, which
cuts the cost of operating the “Rapid” Gas Producing Outfit to an extremely low point.
The enormous saving effected in using the “Rapid” Gas Producer, as against a petrol-operated plant, will more than pay
for the producer in 12 months. . ,
The illustration below shows the special Dairyman’s type BB “Rapid” Gas Power Plant. It is the same as e ypc
AA Industrial Plant, illustrated above, with the special auxiliary hot-water supply tank, as illustrated and descn
prev p lon{rer necessary to fire up the copper for washing-up purposes in a dairy. The “Rapid” Gas Producer does
, , . i r»v additional expense After an hour and a half’s running there are several gallons of scalding hot
the work without one penny this auxiliary hot-water supply tank is worth its weight in gold. Only a few gallons of water
water ready for use. In the c y , Q p roduc ; n „ plants. The supply can be taken from any convenient tank or
clnhe obtained. If, however, the water supply is scarce, or difficult to obtain, the plant can be fitted with
a small circulating pump which will utilise the same water continuously.
COOPER
ENGINEERING CO. LTD
480 Collins *Street, MELBOURNE.


RESCH’S Limited
BREWERS OF
AUSTRALIAN LAGER and PILSENER BEERS,
XXX ALE (Bulk).
:: ■'
<V*2
m
m
m
&
r * *i'
Dinner Ale, Selecft Stock Ale,
and Extra Quality Stout.
■
Brewery—DOWLlNG STREET, RED FERN.
Telephones—Order Dept.: Redfern 875 & 876.
■ - ■—J ' •<


TheXmas Bulletin
Saturday, December 13, 1919.
Registered, at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Price Gd.
THE WONDER-WORKER.
THE CANDIDATE (making personal canvass): “You vote for me, and I'll give you a railway, good roads, a bridge over the creek, a new school-
house and light up your farm with electricity.”
THE KID: “HEY, JIMMY! ’ERE’S FARVER CHRISMISS.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosnian, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £ 1 i!r. 6d. per annum you can have The Bulletin
sent regularly to you every week for a year, to any
ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all Business Communications to he addressed to the
manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to he
refused. , , .
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully 'read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form■ of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable ), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Bui
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forrearded
without stamps for return it will be understood that,
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Thr Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any -picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
11.6.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., MB Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., 18.'i9 Conway Buildings,
Chicago, U.S.A.
Honolulu.- —Home News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Iloung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Dreuer and Co., Redder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. —lF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samurai.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a Neivs-
paper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland.
Fiji, British I’apua, Norfolk and Lord Hone Islands,
10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet—olhervnse; Soz., lsd.; Sioz. to 10oz., 3d. ;
lOoz. to 120 z., S\d.; elsewhere, Bz., lid., and id. each
additional 2oz.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 13, 1919.
THE STAR AND THE MACHINE.
Nineteen hundred years ago the world
formed a League of Nations and called it
Christmas. The time was one of all but
universal peace. Civilisation, as represented
by the empire of Augustus, was fighting
only one enemy ; and that enemy, curiously
enough, was the German. As the Star
of Bethlehem glowed the Roman fleet was
somewhere about the Kiel Canal, and the
Roman legions had penetrated the dark
forests beyond the Rhine and reached the
bank of the Elbe. But elsewhere no blood
was being officially shed, and the whole
world was bent upon the great problems of
reconstruction which the sure grip and mild
rule of the first emperor seemed to make
possible. Civilisation had become a vast
machine, with trade routes pouring into the
capital, and wealth and splendor accumulat-
ing on every hand. By the Tiber fat mil-
lionaires displayed a gorgeous vulgarity;
expensive ladies nibbled at costly dishes of
nightingales’ tongues; poets sang in a hot-
house atmosphere of gift-wine and rich men’s
praise; and the great multitude of the people
ate foreign, imported food, wore foreign
clothing, and forgot that the ancient
strength of Rome was a freeman’s strength
drawn from the soil he loved. All the simple
things were forgotten ; all the tender things
were despised ; a veneer of false Greek cul-
ture. which the true Greek would have
loathed, was spread over the sordid profiteer-
ing that went by the name of progress; and
all men praised the emperor and said the
days were good. Then the star rose over
Bethlehem, a babe was born to a village
girl in a manger, and a great free wind of
simplicity and truth blew in upon the
world.
Whatever may be said of the history of
Christendom, no sane man could ever doubt
the simplifying, purifying power of Chris-
tianity. It grouped itself round the primi-
tive tendernesses of human life, and was the
direct antidote for the great disease .of
the machine. That in its name other
machines were made by some who mlsunder-
stood its purpose and misinterpreted its spirit
is something which cannot touch the vital
fact of its appeal to humanity against a
mechanical system. It cried loudly in the ears
of men that there was something greater
than accumulated wealth, something grander
than the vaunting purple of Caesar; it told
the vine-dresser and the stonemason that
they too might hold a kingship under the
ragged vest of toil; it made a mockery of
triumphs and nightingales’ tongues and the
Greek display that was not Greek, and the
lapdog poet and the alleged deity of trickster
emperors and all the great organisation that
seemed so fair a show and was going no-
where. In a word, it brought the world back
to reality; it made a direct and simple appeal
to every man that had looked up and won-
dered at a star or had breathed the sweetness
of new-turned earth. The creeds are many;
too much has been forgotten, too much ill-
remembered ; but in the Christmas festival
something of the spirit of the first Christmas
still remains to man. It is a call back to
the simplicities, the decencies, the honesties
of life. Man wishes his brother well at that
season. Down at the bedrock of things, man,
as man, could never wish his brother any-
thing else. The first League of Nations has
often gone to pieces before the battle-creak of
the jarring machine, but something within
it makes it. capable of constant reconstruc-
tion. Christmas lives; and the Star of
Bethlehem is an emblem of eternal hope.
Beyond all the orthodoxies, the heresies,
the authorities, the dignitaries, the names,
the forms and the controversies there are to-
day on earth but two religions—the faith
of the Machine and the faith of the Star.
These alone possess the binding force in the
actual daily lives of men and women to
give them full religious significance. The
loudest Bible-banger and the most dignified
apostolic successor, with the heedless epi-
curean and the convinced atheist, can all find
their place in one group or the other. The
division of the sheep and goats is sharp and
clear in a spiritual sense, however they may
bo boxed and need drafting in church and
street and Parliament; but the religious
force is largely unconscious, and there has
never been a heresy-hunt or inquisition about
adherence to either creed. Only this is not-
able, that, while too often the Machine com-
pels worship as the price of daily bread, the
most earnest devotees of that religion can
never wholly refrain from offering occasional
incense at the shrine of the Star. Christmas
is. in fact, the world-wide festival of the
Star, the great annual call to the simplicities
that are the realities of life.
Of late years there has been much loud
“back-to-nature” propaganda. Mild-eyed
vegetarians preach a strenuous gospel of
wheaten coffee and nut-butter; enthusiasts
go bare-headed in the December sun ; sleep-
ing out in all weathers has become'a ware of
the good-aavice merchants. Whatever ele-
ment of improvement there may be in all
this from a hygienic view of man, the animal,
it does not get to grips with the bigger
matters of life. Man has made himself a
great deal more than an animal, and nature
is not his mistress but his servant. As a
conqueror of natural forces, his real progress
has been gained by turning nature’s futility
to purpose and use, by learning to defeat
her laws and by restraining her lawlessness
with laws of his own. The first sod that
was turned with a plough defeated nature’s
idea of keeping the surface of the soil intact;
the most modern aeroplane that flies throws
a whirring laugh over its wing at the natural
power of gravity which kept man earth-
bound so long. To get back to nature far
enough would mean a return to the primal
cell. The call of Christmas has always been
a higher and truer one. It is not “Back to
Nature” but “Back to Man” that the old
festival cries. The trend of man in what he
conceives to be his organisation of the world
is to get away from himself and to become
a mere part of the thing that he has created.
As a crank or piston in the engine of his
own devising he moves backwards and for-
wards at the will of a force beyond his con-
trol, yet of his own making; and in doing
so the essentials of his manhood disappear.
For man. to be man, must keep his definite
relation to the soil and to the Star, to his
dinner and his dreams ; and once that rela-
tion is obscured he becomes a mere slave,
even though his slavery be tempered by the
fact that he is also a slave-master. All
really great nations have been closely asso-
ciated with their own soil, supplying their
own primal needs by their own toil; it was
when they gave over the job of supplying
those needs to inferior or conquered peoples
that they went to pieces, both morally and
physically. They made a machine and be-
came its victims; the Star was forgotten in
the droning of the wheels. For the Star
and the sod are the two poles between which
human -life revolves, and man cannot break
away from the sod without losing vital touch
with the Star.
Australia has reached the great after-the-
war period of reconstruction, and the thing
most vitally necessary to our continuance as
a nation is a clearer and more definite con-
ception of the foundations on which a true
and enduring Commonwealth can be built.
The six States which make up the Federation
were all come-by-chance creations; and a
good deal of the chance was of a misfit kind
that warped the original settlements out of
shape. The number of Australians in the
continent of Australia is really very small.
An immense proportion of those shown in
census tables live iu a few cities and large
towns; and of these very few have any
spiritual connection with the soil of the land.
They do not even know where their dinner
comes from ; and hundreds of thousands of
them would hardly recognise that dinner in
its first state. They do not know how they
are clothed ; they have only the vaguest con-
ception of the toil by which their ordinary
conveniences of life are obtained. They do
not know even the face of the country ; its
flowers are strangers to them—far stranger
than the gai’den products of Europe: its
trees, birds, animals and all the thousand
things that give interest and individuality
to a land are to them little more than names.
What wonder that such people have never
seen the Star, that they are deaf to Austra-
lian appeals and blind to Australian ideals;
that, never having really lived, they mistake
the turning and throbbing of the Machine
fo'- life itself? Statecraft, as we know it.
takes no account of these things. It is a
product of the Machine itself; and too many
of our politicians are all but incapable of
seeing the Star. Yet there never was a
country or a nation with our opportunities.
The very breadth of our land should make
the light of the Star the more intense. From
our broad pastures a stream of food goes
forth to supply distant peoples; our fields
are a world-granary; but in Collins-street
and Martin-place there are people born on
Australian soil who are no more morally
related to that soil than the citizens of Lon-
don or Paris who eat the same food in equal
ignorance of its source. What is true of
Australia is true more or less of all coun-
tries at the present hour; but whereas the
moral situation of the European nations is
largely due to the accident of narrow borders
and overcrowding, ours is attributable to no
cause but the faith of the Machine and a
settled unwillingness to be ourselves.
The world’s greatest need would seem to
be a new Bethlehem, or, failing that, a now
Adam ; and in that need the Australia of
the cities has full share. A superb manhood,
its feet planted on the soil and its face high
against the glory of the Star, has been pro-
duced from end to end of the continent,
wherever the free wind blew and the real
task of living was faced. That manhood,
big-hearted, big-brained, big-muscled, stands
for Australia’s future and hope; and the
more of it we have the more enduring must
our nationhood be. The great problem is
how to make more of it. The hour of our
soldiers’ repat .nation was an hour of tremen-
dous opportunity, but it has almost passed
and passed without any attempt to open up
new paths for the returned men into the big-
ger. and truer life that might have been
theirs. It is almost as if the priesthood of
the Machine had entered into a vast con-
spiracy to prevent the returned youth of the
country getting a glimpse of the Star.
Politically, commercially and industrially
this country is in the grip of the Machine :
but politics, commerce and industry must all
crumble into nothingness if there were none
left to take the far. high view, to realise
the greatness of Australian distances, the
magnitude of the continent’s resources, the
possibilities of the Commonwealth’s future.
It is in a high-star view that the world’s
hope lies. If men will get back to their
manhood, to a close association with the
realities of life, and the earth on which they
move, to the toil that purifies and the dreams
that uplift, there will be no need of a
League of Nations to act as international
policeman. If they continue to believe that
the Machine is the be-all and end-all of
existence they will discover that they are
going round in ever-narrowing circles, press-
ing always into the central congestion whence
come, the shames and frauds and the war
that is the most shameful fraud of all. To
Australia even more than to the rest of the
world the high-star view is necessary. The
work to be done on this continent is so vast
that the Machine could never accomplish it.
Only the force of a tremendous manhood
intent upon real things is capable of that
vrand achievement. So the faith of the
Star enters the field of national economics and
becomes at the last analysis the chief asset
we possess. Destroy that and the Machine,
with all its middlemen and profiteers and
importers and criminals and racecourse
sharks and idlers, must eventually destroy
itself. It is the first Christmas since the
signing of the great peace. In the season of
the Good Wish no Australian wish can be
really good that is not as wide as the conti-
nent and as high as the Star. Let us get
back to the great simplicity of a nation’s toil
for a continent’s reward.
Saddle and Spur.
“Stargazer”: He was busy pasting up
theatrical posters on a suburban hoarding,
and I was sitting in the doctor’s car. while
the M.D. made a call. I watched the bill-
sticker with interest. His whole aspect was
familiar, and stirred vague memories. Then
suddenly I recalled Arthur Binstead. the
actor, sticking bills at Smeaton, advertising
the co. in which be was juvenile lead.
“Hello!” said I. “I know you, don’t I?”
He finished slapdashing a sheet. lie shook
his head at me. “Oh. yes,” I said, “you are,
or were, Arthur Binstead. You played in
Barry’s company at Smeaton over 20 years
ago. You used to stick the bills in 'your
spare moments. But you were an actor
then.” “Ah. yes.” he said, with an uplift
of the nose; “that’s when I was learnin’ me
trade !”
An inharmonious note was struck at a
Port Melbourne wedding one afternoon lately.
The affair had attracted a small crowd to
the church door, and when the bride and
her ’groom came forth it was to be greeted
with sundry warmish expressions of public
approval. A taxi was waiting, and as the
happy couple worked towards it, one woman,
with a bucket on her arm. looking sartori-
ally quite inadequate to the occasion, shook
a scrubbing-brush in the face of the bride.
“Sich impudence!” she said. “Well, of all
the cheeks! I never see the like!” she added.
The feelings of the honest gathering were
all against the lady with the bucket, homing
from her job as a scrubber of offices. “Gam.
lie down !” ejaculated the gentle proletariat.
“Pitch ’er on ’er filbert!” advised a kindly
spectator. But the dame of the scrubbing
pail was following the bride up. “I never
come across sich a piece of brazing cheek "
said she. She interposed between the bride
and the taxi door, reiterating her charges of
preposterous conduct. But here the crowd
laid hands on the unsympathetic. soul, and
hauled her aside, and bride and groom drove
off. “Sich cheek!" cried the scrub-lady after
the taxi. “Why, what’s she done?” de-
manded another, a married lady herself.
“Done!” cried the lady of the pail. “Why.
she’s bin and married my ’usband !”
“When the flood came down,” said the
landlord of the Vintners’ Inn, “we had a
young fellow staying here who had come to
Victoria with a big wine-buyer represent'ng
London houses, and had been sent into the
district to make a few inquiries on his own.
He was the most helpless human I have met
over the age of three, and could only light his
own cigarette after a struggle. The rain of
those two days was a record, and on the third
morning, when the flood came down, 1 awoke
to find already 2ft. of water in my bar.
You can imagine we were not giving much
attention to petty detail, but when that new-
chum Johnnie’s bell rang for the fifteenth
time, I thought that perhaps he wanted some-
one to save him from a watery grave, so I left
affairs of importance to look him up. lie lay
tucked in bed, still just above high-water
mark. ‘Look here, lan’lord,’ he said, ‘wha-
wha-what do you mean, eh —what do you
mean by putting a fellow in a bally woom
like this? Why. it’s all wet! What? I wish
you’d have a look wound, like a good chap,
y’know. There must be a leak in the woof,
somewhere I’ ”
The first missing-word competition was
run by Samson. It is recorded in Judges
xiv, 12-13: “And Samson said unto
them, ‘I will now put forth a riddle unto
you: if you can certainly declare it me
within the seven days of the feast, and find
it out, then will I give you 30 sheets and 30
changes of garments; but if ye cannot de-
clare it me, then shall ye give me 30 sheets
and 30 changes of garments.’ ”
* * * *
“Gouger” : Disputes were settled quick and
lively in the early days of. Lightning Ridge
(N.S.W.) opal-field, eleven years ago. At
the sound of a clattering horse-bell all diggers
knocked off work and mustered around a
dump on the flat. On the mound stood the
spokesman, judge and referee, a gorilla-built
man with huge bare feet and a voice like the
roar of a bull, opposite him stood the dis-
puting parties.. Generally the charge was
jumping a claim or driving under another
man’s ground. The judge heard both sides,
then roared his version of it to the assembled
diggers. Majority vote did the rest. When
women appeared on the field, the Ridge was
“done.” The first case under the new regime
began well. A big crowd gathered round
a newly-started shaft. Standing back
against the windlass, with his arms well in
the air and a very startled look on his face,
was a young man. In front of him, with a
levelled double-barrelled gun, stood a white-
whiskered old digger. The old man did not
beat about the bush. He wanted to know if
the young fellow was going to marry his
daughter. If not, he was going to blow him
down the shaft. The young fellow didn’t
keep the party waiting. He married the
girl, lively.
* * * *
“McNorth”: Now and then there comes
to light a missionised Black Brother with a
knack of applying Biblical parables to prob-
lems of real life. The Torres Strait Islanders
are up against the Gubment regulation for
the compulsory banking of a considerable
portion of the wages earned by natives in
the pearling and beche-de-mer industries.
They can see no virtue in banking. So in
one island church the colored brother who
“took” the .service in the absence of the
white missioner adapted the Parable of th 1
Ten Talents in this style
“That Big Boss he give them 10 man belong him
one half-crown each and he tell them feller to do
what he think more better with that money. Then
Boss he go way. Bv-and-bye when sou’-east time
finish he come back and he ask them 10 man what
he do with them half-crown. One man he stand
up and open hand belong him. He got seven half-
crown. Boss very too much glad and he ask .that man
which way he make plenty money. That man say: ‘1
been play cards with some feller who only savee
little bit.’ Boss shake hands with that feller. ‘You
too much good man,' he talk. ‘You number one.
You sit down longa my right hand.’ The next man
been buy turtle-shell from one old man who been
blind and no savee prices, and he been sell it for
big profit. Boss he glad for that man too. All
them other man been do something with his half-
crown and make more. Boss like them all too
much. But one poor feller he stand up ’way by
himself. Boss ask him what he do with his half-
crown. That man say he been put it longa bank at
Thursday Island. My word, Boss wild proper! ‘Put
money in bank! ’ he sing out. ‘What for you do
like that ? Look all them other man, all he no
put money in bank, and all make plenty profit. You
put half-crown in bank, you take out half-crown.
No profit, no nothing. You too much damfool,
alogether. More better you go work some other
marster.’ And he chuck him outside, finish.”
THE PLEA OF THE DEAD DIGGER.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN .]
“France proposes to honor her countless dead by
burying an unidentified poilu in the Pantheon in
Paris. Now it is suggested that a British private
should be buried in the cenotaph in Whitehall.”
If it should chance that I am borne
From where I sleep, amid the hush
- Of fields grown sweet with singing corn,
Gilding what once was Flanders slush,
Let them not hide me from the sun
In some cold, lonely cenotaph,
Who lived for comradeship and fun
And met my finish with a laugh.
I would far rather take my rest
Beneath the turf where Trumper played,
With all the might of England’s best
Against his nerve and skill arrayed.
Or let me lie where as a boy
I shivered while Trafalgar raced,
And shouted at the end with joy
To see his fields out-stayed, out-paced.
Cover me lightly ! I would hear
The speeding feet, the quick commands;
And for the champions of the year
The thund’rous plaudits of the stands.
x.s.w.
10-2-4.
THE UP TRAIN.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN .]
I thought the train came in with grinding brakes
At some lone station set in morning mist....
I said, “The sun is up, the day awakes,
The little winds will blow where'er they list,
And lift the veil that lies upon the hill,
Till I shall gaze and see—what shall I see?
Great trees, an old stone-house, a leaping rill.
Making a tender springtime melody
Over brown stones where little fishes swim.
There will be small green fields and hawthorn
bloom,
And joy behind old windows green and dim,
Where love speaks softly in an ancient room —
Dear God, is there no station where life’s train
May leave my soul with its first dreams again?
N.S.W.
DAVID MCKEE WRIGHT.


England’s Work.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN .]
FROM dens in forests dark and deep,
Wraith charcoal-burners rise,
And grisly shades of swineherds creep
With anger-reddened eyes;
Into the light of beach and bird
They burst, a grimy flood—
Boadicea’s prayers are heard,
Her daughters washed in blood!
Oh. limbs like forest limbs and roots.
Oh, boar-spear, club and dirk
The common cause of men and brutes —
And these did England’s work !
The Romans came and went again
By conquered land and sea;
The Saxon, Norman and the Dane
Are British, and are we.
The blood absorbed each conquering host;
And now for us they fight;
The ghost of Harold guards the coast,
And Saxons rest, to-night.
The beacons burned, the captains turned
And put to sea again;
And where were all the men and gold.
And great tall ships of Spain?
The Prussian sneered at England's death,
Before his sun had set;
The Shade of Queen Elizabeth
Rides down to Dover yet!
It was a dour and bitter way,
The path that Cromwell rode:
But he made England clean at home,
The English safe abroad.
And once again the king of Spain,
In sorrow and in tears,
Could curse each Englishman he’d caught
And sold into Algiers.
The Prussian scorned the Britisher,
In sunshine and in rain ;
Nor deemed he’d dare to throw a troop
Across the Straits again,
lie fixed the eyeglass of the fool
And said, “Eli, what?” and “Haw!”
And what to-day is Prussian rule
Compared with English law?
The spirit of a single race,
From London round to Bourke —
The slouch hat and the careless jest;
And these did England’s work.
N.s.w.
HENRY LAWSON.
Melinda.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT was a meteorological circumstance that
threw Melinda on to the sentimental
path of Mat Conyers. Melinda was the
charming daughter of Jacob Mole, a grumpy,
hard-working road-contractor, whom the
local paper described as one of the oldest
residents of Sleepy Hollow.
She had been shopping, and while she did
it a heavy thunderstorm had put a foot of
water in a wide depression that intersected
the unformed street near her home. It was
a quiet spot, with a paling fence on each
side and an open flat in front. Straight
ahead, through the water, it was only a
couple of hundred yards to the house, but
to go round it was over a mile, and that
across a grassy, melonhole flat.
Melinda did not consider the alternative
for a moment. She sat down and took her
boots and stockings off. It was then that
Mat Conyers came along.
He had been shopping, too,
and was returning to Lan-
key’s Hut, where he and
Murty Brown were spelling
their horses- after a droving
trip. He sat down on the
opposite side of the street
and took off his boots and
socks. Then he waited,
looking at the barrier and
alternately at the girl.
Melinda waited, too, glanc-
ing furtively at the intru-
sive person, and screwing
her extremities in the op-
posite direction.
Conyers knew her by
sight. She was pretty
enough to attract a passing
eye, and he was too impres-
sionable to fade away when
it appeared to be a case of
beauty in distress. He
wanted to be made use of.
Melinda was not the least
concerned about wetting her
legs, but she didn’t want a
strange man looking on.
There was a dip in the
centre of that pond, where
it would be necessary to re-
veal a lot of leg.
The game of patience con-
tinued for 10 minutes. The
water hadn't receded to any
noticeable extent in that
time; but Conyers observed
Humphrey Hodge, the black-
smith’s assistant, coining up
the road, and he determined to act. He
didn’t like Humphrey, who was a reclusive
individual, with a habit of mooching about
alone when off duty; and he had heard that
Humphrey was “shook” on Melinda.
Conyers crossed the road in a few strides.
Melinda pretended to be very busy re-
arranging her parcels.
“Can I help you across?” he said in-
gratiatingly.
“I can get across, thank you,” she replied,
without looking up.
Conyers stooped invitingly. “Get on my
back an’ I’ll carry you over.”
Melinda’s face reddened. “I can walk,
thank you,” she answered with increasing
frigidity.
“Well, let me carry your parcels.” He
picked tbeih up without waiting for permis-
sion. and splashed amiably away with them
just as the blacksmith came up. The black-
smith’s only apparent business there was to
“spoil sport.”
Conyers was chuckling to himself at his
smartness in anticipating Mr. Hodge: but.
when he looked back his feelings suddenly
changed. The blacksmith was following in
his tracks and was carrying Melinda. Con-
yers was sure he had not parleyed with her;
lie had taken his boots off and picked her up
as if she were a child. Melinda’s blushes
and resentful looks implied as much.
Humphrey put her down alongside a tea-
tree log. She straightened her hat and her
hair and sat on the log. The two men looked
at one another as a snake and gohanna look
at each other when they meet unexpectedly.
Melinda wanted to put her hoots on. She
thanked them for the kind attentions they
had forced on her, and intimated that sin*
could manage without any further assistance.
Neither made a move. Melinda looked dis-
t ressed.
"Is there anything to pay?” asked Hum-
phrey of the girl, and as he spoke he inclined
his head slightly towards the resentful Con-
yers.
"If that’s what you’re waitin’ for. I’m
payin’ for Miss Mole,” Conyers interposed,
diving his hand into his pocket, lie intended
to make a jingle, but discovered there was
nothing there, and the hand remained sta-
tionary. Humphrey had a discerning eye.
“You haven’t a boh to your name.” he
snarled, at the same time jingling some co'ns
in his pocket as evidence of his own wealth.
(’onyers finessed.
"Is that the price you agreed to for this
chap’s services?” lie asked Miss Mole.
“I didn’t agree to anything,” she snapped.
Conyers slewed sternly to Mi - . Hodge, his
expression betokening indignant surprise.
"So you’ve been takin’ liberties, smithy?” lie
said, loftily.
“Don’t you talk to me like that!” snarled
the blacksmith, shaking his list. "If I hadn’t
good clothes on I’d duck you in tli’ swamp.”
Conyers slipped into his boots as if he
meant business. Then he gave an ominous
hitch to his belt.
“If there wasn’t a lady present. I'd punch
you on the nose,” he remarked, after these
preparations.
The blacksmith glared ferociously. “She
ain't stoppin’ yer,” he said, taking a step
backwards.
Conyers kept a judicious curb on his belli-
cose ambition. The blacksmith was a big
muscular-looking chap. "I know what’s due
to a lady if you don’t,” he said.
“Well,” Humphrey returned, “one thing
that’s due to her is to get when you’re not
wanted.”
Conyers stooped down to lace up his boots.
As he straightened up again a daub of gluti-
nous mud smacked him across the eyes and
clung there, temporarily putting him out of
action.
When he had clawed the thick of the plas-
ter away, and washed off the rest, the black-
smith had put the swamp between them, and
the girl was half-way home, hurrying like a
timid creature escaping from desperadoes.
Conyers returned to Lankey’s Hut in a
vicious frame of mind. He thirsted for re-
venge. He determined to have a double re-
venge ; lie would thrash Humphrey first, and
then win the girl. How he was going to do
the latter he had no idea yet; but it could
wait until he had knocked spots off the black-
smith. Girls liked a man who could do
things like that.
He had a long talk with his mate, after
which Murty Brown pocketed five shillings
and strolled down the town. At the Boom-
erang Hotel he met Mr. Hodge, and asked
him to have a drink. Over their glasses
Murty told that he'd had some words with
Conyers, whom he described as “a skite,”
who chased every pretty face he saw and
couldn’t get a girl of any sort. This pleased
ALMOST OVERCROWDED.
"Yes, Iadies and gentlemen, you may talk of
poverty in Australia, but I’ll tell you
what I’ve actually seen in the Old
Country — there’s thousands and thous-
ands of poor families living in one room.”
Mr. Hodge, and he shouted for Murty with
enthusiasm. They sat down at the parlor
table, and Humphrey gave a grossly exagger-
ated report of how he had humiliated Con-
yers at the swamp. Murty banged his fist
on the table in great glee, and called for
more drinks. So they talked and refreshed
until the blacksmith’s speech grew thick and
his legs became unsteady. Then Murty led
him forth like a lamb to the slaughter.
Humphrey was more amiable in his cups,
and confidential in a quiet way. He wasn’t
muddled, except in the feet; neither did he
show any disposition to go to sleep round
Murty’s neck. They proceeded, like two old
friends, along an empty street towards the
smithy.
Suddenly Mat Conyers, who had been cool-
ing his heels at the side of an old culvert,
appeared before them. There was enough
light from a lmlf-moon to make recognition
easy. Mr. Hodge seemed inclined to bury the
hatchet, but Conyers was truculent.
“You’re the swine that threw mud at me
to-day!” he growled, and there being no lady
present lie followed the words with a punch
on the blacksmith's nose. Humphrey stag-
gered back, and tottered awhile before he re-
covered his balance. The onslaught lmd taken
him unawares. In a moment he pulled him-
self together, and then he became a whirling
torrent.
It transpired that Humphrey hadn’t
enough courage to light a bantam when he
was sober, but when he was drunk it took
it good man to stand up to him. lit* thumped
Conyers almost into insensibility, and when
Murty interposed to save his mate from being
killed, the blacksmith sailed into him am!
VITAL STATISTICS.
FRIEND: “ Sa y. how many horse-power is this cur?"
DISGUSTED OWNER: “I bought it for twenty, hut nineteen of the blighters were dead."
tumbled him over the culvert embankment.
Then Mr. Hodge, grown steadier on his
pins, brushed the dust of battle off his hat
and mooched home.
Murty, recovering slowly from his aston-
ishment, crept back to the road, and went
to the assistance of Conyers, who was groan-
ing in the gutter. He seemed in such a bad
way that Murty led him to the doctor’s house
near by. lie was further prompted in this
by the fact that Conyer and "the doc”
were old acquaintances, and had discussed
many a friendly glass* together in Sleepy
Hollow and elsewhere.
I)r. Byng was of the rough-and-ready,
hard-riding sort that is often met with in the
backblocks. lie was fond of his whisky,
which occasionally made him unavailable
when his services were needed; and as there
was no hospital to provide him with a settled
income, he was often hard up and seldom out
of debt.
He spruced Conyers up in a few minutes,
incidentally remarking that the blacksmith
was a friend in need, as he’d had only one
other case during the week, and that
he had to thank the influenza outbreak
down-country for. The scare made people
look with suspicion on any kind of cold they
got. The patient was Mrs. Mole. She had
nothing more than a simple cold, but her
considerate neighbors had led her to think
it might be ’flu.
This recital acted as an inspiration to
Conyers. He brightened up immediately.
His interest in the case was immense, and he
talked about ’flu for an hour. He spoke of
the possibilities of influenza in that salu-
brious district, and related how an impecuni-
ous physician he had known had risen in his
profession through a local epidemic of the
kind. Finally he thrust a five-pound note
into the doctor’s hands, with an intimation
that if he could make Airs. Mole’s complaint
influenza it would he to their mutual benefit.
The doctor was to visit his patient at 3 p.m.
on the morrow.
Conyers went home with a feeling that his
adventure had not been in vain; Murty, suf-
fering his hurts as one who didn’t deserve
them, limped home with the determination
to take no further part in the proceedings.
At 3 o’clock next day Conyers presented
himself at Jacob Mole's back door. He had
called to borrow a hammer. Dr. Byng
entered by the front door almost at the same
moment. To the consternation of the family
he diagnosed the case as influenza, and as
he had come prepared, having had his suspi-
cions aroused the previous day, the house
was immediately quarantined in the interests
of the community. The yellow flag was
hoisted, and the inmates were warned that
none of them must leave the premises until
permitted to do so by law.
Constable Murphy, who represented the
might and majesty of the law in Sleepy Hol-
low, said it was unfortunate that Mr. Con-
yers had dropped in at that moment, as it.
might be weeks before he could drop out
again. But Conyers secretly shook hands
with himself. He was a fixture in the girl's
home, while the bumptious blacksmith would
not be allowed to come near the house. Pro-
pinquity was everything with girls, and
already Conyers began to plan dimly for the
prospective union.
Old Jacob Mole didn’t take the matter so
cheerfully. He was heard to say that Con-
yers was a d—d infliction. He let him know
at once that there was plenty to do about
the place to put the time in—repairing har-
ness. old drays and yards and sheds. The
work would be something for his board and
lodging. Conyers didn’t mind. He took off
his coat and went to work willingly. He
worked till dark, gaining a grunt of appre-
ciation from Jacob; and then with gladsome
anticipations he tidied himself up for tea.
He entered the sacred precincts a little
nervously. Mr. Mole occupied the head of
the table, Mrs. Mole sat at the foot, a bony
maiden aunt poured out tea and beamed on
the guest, two boys misbehaved themselves
at one side, and Conyers was placed oppo-
site, with the old maid for mate. Where
was Melinda? There was no place laid for
her, and nobody seemed to be expecting her.
Being a stranger he shrank from inquiring,
but when the meal was ended and there was
no appearance of Melinda he grew anxious.
She wasn’t mentioned once all the evening;
and what with worrying over her, and tin*
fact that he was accommodated with a rough
shakedown, composed mostly of hags and old
coats, in tin* cartshed, he had an uncomfort-
able night.
He was roused out at daylight to milk
cows. Conyers detested milking cows, but
he went to work as if he loved it.
It was after lie had finished milking that
he got a word in private with the boys. They
told him that Melinda had gone down to see
their married aunt yesterday afternoon, and
after the doctor’s visit word had been sent
to her to remain there. Conyers was so
affected by this information that he dropped
down on the doorstep like a wet dishcloth,
and had to be called three times before he
came to breakfast.
Instead of cornering Melinda, he had cor-
nered himself and left the amorous black-
smith with a free run. The doctor was a
blundering fool, after all: he ought to have
made sure he had all the family in the house
before he quarantined it.
Conyers worked mechanically through the
day, and when the doctor called late in the
afternoon appealed to him to announce that
he had made an error in the diagnosis. But
the doctor said his professional reputation
was at stake; he had declared the disease to
be influenza, and influenza it would have to
remain. Already the scare had brought him
seven patients; everybody who had a cold or
a cough rushed to him for examination. His
business had never been so prosperous.
That evening, in contravention of the laws,
Conyers left the place in disgust, and stole
back to Lankey’s Hut. lie found the door
padlocked, and Murty Brown on being roused
up refused to open it.
“You can’t come in here,” he said de-
cisively.
“Why not?” snorted Conyers.
“Because the presence of a contact is con-
tamination,” said Murty. “You’ve no right
to be at large.”
“Oh, talk sense!” rasped Conyers. “You
know it’s all guff.”
“If I said what I know I’d get into trouble,
an’ I’ve had enough trouble lately,” said
Murty. “Better ero away an’ hide yourself.”
Conyers collapsed on the grass, and he was
sitting there, mumbling to himself, when Con-
stable Murphy arrived in haste from Mole’s.
DIDN’T KNOW
WHERE TO FIND
HER.
“Are you lost, little boy?”
“No. But [?]mie is.”
He took the contact to the barracks, where he
was confined in an isolated building and kept
under observation.
Murty sent him a cheering message fiom
time to time. He informed him that Melinda
was also being kept under observation. The
doctor appeared to be more interested in her
than in anybody else, though she had not de-
veloped any symptoms. Sometimes he visited
her twice a day.
When he was at last set free, the climax did
not come to him like a bolt from the blue.
He heard, sullenly, what Murty*s information
had led him to expect, that Dr. Byng and
Melinda were engaged to be married.
EDWARD S. SORENSON.


ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALLA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“S.S.S.” : One of the few true missions in
the world is that at Yule Island, Papua. The
Bishop—a Prince of the House of Orleans, it is
said —has a lively sense of humor. He tells this
story —a little against himself. The Brothers had
established a church and school far up on the
Owen Stanley Range. Six months later one of the
Brothers, passing the schdol out of hours, heard a
lot of excited chatter amongst the little cannibal
scholars who had apparently been kept in for some
reason or other. Thinking they might be con-
sidering some doctrine upon which he could
enlighten them, he listened. They were discussing
the best way to cut up a man without killing him.
Papuans like their meat alive.
“8.T.”: At a pub up the river from
Nagambie they introduced me to Boxer, the only
local ce l e brity. Boxer is a black retriever, who up
to now has saved seven lives People it appears
especially children, have got into the way of falling
into the Goulburn from the low-parapeted bridge,
and cannot break themselves of the habit, which cir-
cumstance has given Boxer her opportunity of
acquiring fame. From her accustomed couch on the
10 A.M.
BOUNDARY BILL ( suddenly awakened by violent ringing of station telephone) : “Quiet,
you blighter! We’re supposed to be out on the blanky fence!”
pub verandah she keeps an eye on the water, and
if her services are needed t ots down, casually, and
tows the semi-submerged person ashore. However,
there is a case on record in which Boxer refused to
act. The victim was a Neapolitan toiler in the vine-
yards, and he wande ed over the side of the bridge
when drunk one Sunday afternoon. The retriever
sat up, gave an unconcerned bark, and lay down
again. Even when dragged to the water she em-
phatically refused to intervene, and the man in the
river was recovered with difficulty by two com-
patriots in a boat. It was explained that the Dago
had recently kicked Boxer heavily in the ribs for
an attempted interference with his lunch. Next day
he was seen to app oach the retriever, using apolo-
getic and propitiatory words, and spread his whole
package of sausage sandwich and cold spaghetti for
her benefit. He came from the interview beaming.
“Next time I fall offa the bridge eet iss all right,”
he said —“she wagga the tail!”
* * * *
“Melos” : Talking about beds reminds me
of an old bachelor at Sandy Creek, near Tenterfield
(N.S.W.), whose blankets were pieces of soft,
white ti-tree bark sewn together in laye s. I met
him the day after a fire had swept through the
scrub near his humpy. Gazing sorrowfully at the
blackened tree trunks, he moaned: “That damned
fire sp’iled 10 years’ blankets on me!”
* * * *
“E.S.S.” : Next to the koala, the aborigine
is our greatest stumbling block to the artist. B. E.
Minns is the only one who can produce a lifelike
portrait of King Billy and his lubra, and he gives
us only one type. In his natural hunting-ground
and on the cattle runs, where backblock grog hasn’t
wrecked him morally and physically, Binghi is an
upstanding, well-made athlete, with a proud, dignified
bearing and nearly always a pleasant, humorous
THE BOUNDARY RIDER.
“ Struth! Different from the old days when
a cove wouldn’t see his missus for three
weeks.”
countenance. Now and again you see a sulky black-
fellow, or one with a serious face, but the great
majority meet you smiling. If the smile isn’t on
the lips you see it in the twinkling eyes. The whole
face suggests happiness even when it isn’t smiling.
No other black face is more attractive than the Aus-
tralian abo.’s and none that is more difficult to d aw.
The “fake” Australian blackfellow presented on
stage and screen is an awful libel. Though the
white can easily depict an American nigger, a
Kanaka, coolie or Indian, his best efforts fail to
reproduce Binghi’s peculiarly happy lineaments.
Clancy’s Christmas barber:—
After dinner and a shave we walked three miles
into town. Clancy said: “I’ve only got four quid,
an’ l wanter get a new suit nex’ month. We won’t
have much beer-just get our hair cut an’ a coupler
p ub Big Jack came in. When he has any booze‘in
he has a fancy for fighting. He’d fight anyone for
an y reason or for no reason. W r e had another drink.
Jack had sherry and lemonade. “Keepin’ sober ter-
day,” he said. Clancy explained that he was going
to get his hair cut. Jack said he wanted his cut
too, so we all went over to the shop. The barber
was shaving one bloke and two more were waiting.
The barber cried: “Won't be five minutes, gents.”
Clancy said we’d come in again, and we went up
the street to the second pub. After we’d had about
four pints I noticed Jack was drinking sherry neat.
“Too much gas in the lemonade,”’ he explained.
“Makes a man blow up.” We started back for the
barber’s, but called at Johnston’s pub because Jack
wanted to see if there was a letter for him. There
he had schnapps and sherry. “Crook in the guts,”
he confided, “from the lemonade.” When we’d had
about six more drinks Jack wanted to fight the
yardman; but the yardman ran out the back a< d
Jack couldn’t find him. So we went back to the
barber’s. There was another bloke getting shaved
and three more waiting. None of them would fight
Jack. Clancy and I lugged him out and dragged him
over to the pub. Jack had schnapps and offered to
fight the barman. The latter apologised, and Jack
shook hands with him 17 times. “This is a crook
town,” he said. “On the fields I coulder had five or
six fights be now.” We went out to go to the
barber’s and met a tin-miner. Jack called him “a
gully-scratehin’ .” The miner punched Jack
on the nose and Jack blotted him out. Clancy and
I carried the stiff into the pub, and when he came
round we all had a couple of brandies. Then we
went out to go to the barber’s and met Solly, the
mill storekeeper. Solly tried to go past, but Jack
grabbed him and insisted on fighting him or shout-
ing for him. We went back into the bar and
Solly slipped out the side door after paying for the
drinks. We had the drinks and then we went out
to go to the barber’s. Clancy and I fell over on
the footpath, and old Mac came on the scene with
his ’bus. Old Mac said he would drive us all to
.the barber’s, so we got in the ’bus. When I woke
next morning Clancy was snoring in his bunk. He
hadn’t had his hair cut.
* * * *
“D.F.”: Was it a bunyip’s head that that
careful and observant navigator and buccaneer,
William Dampier, saw at Shark’s Bay (W.A.) in
August, 1699, or was it the last of a now-extinct
monster-tribe? He says that in the maw of an lift,
shark “we found the head and bones of a hippo-
potamus, the hairy lips of which were still sound
and not putrified. The jaw was also firm, and out
of it we pluckt a great many teeth, two of which
were eight inches long and as thick as a man’s
thumb, small at one end and a little crooked; the
rest were not above half as long.”
“Devilfish”: The word “yakker,” some-
times used to mean graft or toil, and occa-
sionally in the secondary sense of tucker, appears to
come from the language of the Queensland abos. Dr.
Lang says that when he was making some notes
while on a trip up the Brisbane River, a Moreton
Bay native who was in the boat said, “What for
Commandant yacca paper?” meaning what did he
work at it for. As for “Commandant,” this was
only a few years after the removal of the penal
settlement, and “commandant” was the abo.’s term
of respect.
* * # *
“Britt”: We were talking dog when old
Smith joined the conversation. “Yous blokes ain’t
never seen a dog,” he said. “When I was cuttin’
five-foot at Grenville fer Sam Hayes, I ’ad a
bonzer. He useter mind the hut all day, an’ when
me axe stopped he’d pick up bark an’ leaves an’
sticks and shove ’em in the fireplace. When I
got home he’d be sittin’ there scratching himself,
wonderin’ why he couldn’t strike a light. That’s
what I called him —Strike-a-light.”
* * * *
“Emeritus”: Mot my old pal Hori
Houpoa at the Peace Day sports. Mrs. Hori, a
buxom dame of some 30 summers, had e.:tered for
the Maori Ladies’ Race, and greatly to our sur-
prise went to the post. From the pistol there was
only one in it, and Mrs. Hori ran, or rather rolled,
home a winner by two yards. Turning to con-
gratulate Hori, he seemed doubtful whether to
cheer or swear. On inquiring the trouble he wailed,
“By Golly, I the damn fool! I own it 10 year, and
this the first time I race it.”
THE WEDDING AT WILLEROO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was Christmas time in ’ninety, and the river was
in flood ;
I was putting- in the time at Willeroo.
As my horses were in clover, when the holidays were
over
I was going- as a drover with some cattle passing
through.
It was quite a bushmen’s party that was camped at
Stringer’s pub,
And most of us were flush and pretty free,
When Mac, of Napatunga, with his four-in-hand
arrived,
And set the ball a-rolling for a spree.
He was something over fifty, and his beard was
long and red,
And the little hair he had was going grey.
He was owner of the station and had won the
admiration
Of his neighbors in the district, for he’d more than
made it pay.
He was always rough and ready and his thirst was
fairly keen,
And he made the pace a welter at the bar.
As he always stayed a fortnight when he came to
Stringer’s pub
He was known to all the bushmen near and far.
It was harvest time for Stringer, and his face was
all aglow
As he handed down the bottles from the rack,
And a voice was gaily singing, for a young romance
was springing
’Neath the roof of bark and greenhide on the kitchen
at the back;
And a parson was expected from a township further
out —
He was bringing down the license and the Book.
On the morning after Christmas the wedding would
come off,'
The parties being the gardener and the cook.
LIFE'S POSSIBILITIES.
BOOZY BEN ( delightedly ) : “What a bonza
worm! Now, if there was a river near
by, and there was a bloke fishin ’ in it,
an’ ’e ’adn’t got no bait but ’ad a bottle
of th ’ best, YOU’D be worth a drink, you,
would!"
The bride-elect was freckled, and her eyes were
red and weak,
For they suffered from a chronic kind of blight.
She was mostly known as Mary, and her arms were
red and hairy,
And her snoring often woke us in the night.
The groom-to-be was yellow, and his eyes were both
aslant —
A rather sleek and greasy kind of Chow—
And Mac, of Napatunga, said he’d give the bride
away,
Though he hadn’t time for crossbreds anyhow!
We’d been watching all day Christmas till the man
in black arrived.
He was mild and also weak about the eyes.
He was young and somewhat callow, and his face
was drawn and sallow,
And he wore a net to keep away the flies.
I had given him assistance with his baggage and nis
box,
And we’d turned his poor old horses out to grass,
When he said all men were brothers and he’d like
to meet the others,
And, if we didn’t mind it, he’d join us in a glass.
When the evening meal was over and we’d settled
for a smoke,
And a maze of insects circled up above
With a rhythmic kind of humming and peculiar
sounds were coming
From the couple in the kitchen making love.
Then the parson called for Stringer (he was getting
very dry),
And after that we had a shilling-in,
And Mac tossed up a penny with a drover from the
Gulf,
And we had a round of drinks upon the spin.
Then we all got fairly going and we “shouted” out
of turn,
For we reckoned Christmas came but once a year ;
But the most of us soon huddled on the benches
badly muddled,
And one by one began to disappear.
It was something after midnight and the most cf
them had gone,
The company had dwindled down to three
There was Mac, of Napatunga, and the paison going
strong,
And both of them were looking after me.
The last thing I remembered, in a hazy kind of way,
Was the eastern sky fast getting very red.
And the parson said: “We’re brothers. We have
beaten all the others,
And I think that we had better go to bed!”
We were feeling rather shaky when they woke us
up at eight
To decorate the parlor like a church,
When Mary came in screaming, and her cries were
long and loud,
For her bloke had gone and left her in the lurch.
He had gone with all her savings (which was nearly
thirty pounds),
A bangle and a bonzer set of teeth,
And was mean enough to tamper with the contents
of a hamper—
He’d sneaked a flask of brandy from beneath.
We were sorry for the woman and we swore we’d
bring him back
To her to reconciliate or thrash;
But Mac, of Napatunga, said: “We’ll let the heathen
go
If we can get our fingers on the cash!”
We searched in every corner of the stable and the
shed,
And some were tracking prints upon the ground
When old Mac became excited and the parson was
delighted
With a folded piece of paper that they’d found.
It said in broken English, “I no gettee spliced to-day,
And thinkee alee samee takee hook.
I’ve a wifee out in China; my missie welly ni’«
Johnny welly, welly solly for the cook.”
Then there was a general muster, and we lined up
every man
That could stand upon his feet around the pub,
And we searched along the clearing, where the
flood was disappearing,
And some of us went tracking in the scrub.
We thought to overtake him —he could not have
travelled far ;
The coach was running late and overdue—
But he must have swum the river where it opened
on the flat—
There was no bridge or boat at Willeroo.
The cook was in hysterics when we landed back at
noon ;
The publican was busy making bread.
He said that she'd been moaning all the time =he
wasn’t groaning,
And he thought that she was going off her head.
The parson said “I’m sorry” in a cheerful kind of
way;
“Very sorry for the lady in distress.”
But Mac, of Napatunga, said: “It’s up to one of us
To extricate the lady from the mess.
“Someone had better take her. She is sound of
limb and strong.
Is there anyone will marry her to-night ?
She’s a worker and she’s steady, she is all dolled up
and ready,
And a big thing in her favor is she's white!”
We’d been drinking rather heavy, still we sobered
up at once,
But the drunkest man amongst us never spoke.
Then Mac, of Napatunga, said: “I'll take her on
myself
And marry her, if only for a joke!”
We’d an interview with Mary—she was somewhat
overjoyed
At the trouble that we took to ease her mind.
She said: “There’s no denying I’ve been worrying
and crying
Till my eyes are sore and raw and nearly blind.”
Then we very soon got busy and we fixed the parlor
up.
The parson got the papers and the Book,
And Mac, of Napatunga, fully three sheets in the
wind,
Was joined in holy wedlock with the cook.
Then we drank their health in bumpers, and we
drank it many times,
And someone, I remember, made a speech ;
And after Mac had kissed her and the parson called,
her sister
She firmly placed the bottle out of reach.
Then Stringer brought a brownie that he’d baked
the night before —
He said it was a kind of wedding feast —
It was doughy in the centre and the top had fallen
in,
But Stringer laid the blame upon the yeast.
We all cleared out next morning for old Mac had
sobered up,
And the most of us were broke at Willeroo;
But the story of the wedding was not very long in
spreading,
And it gained in size and color as it flew.
Still, there always was a wel-
come at the station when
we called
From the boss of Napatunga
and his wife.
And no one seemed to notice
how she ate her mutton-
chops
And ladled up the gravy with
her knife.
It was half a decade later (I
was “representing” tea)
When I chanced to stay the
night at Willaroo,
And I mentioned Napatunga
when I’d satisfied my
hunger
To find out from the landlord
what he knew.
He said that Mac had pros-
pered, that his luck was
much the same,
Good seasons came and multi-
plied his flock;
But the heir of Napatunga
caused his father some
concern,
For he’d rather water cab-
bages than stock !
N.s.w.
JIM GRAHAME.


“C. Coral”: The increasing price of
“trade” • black twist tobacco is causing the Torres
Strait islander some concern, and he is beginning to
wonder if he’ll have to revert to pre-trading days
and grow the leaf for himself. Tobacco was cul-
tivated on the islands (or, at any rate, the Eastern
group) long before the white man handed it out.
It was very strong, and one “draw” was enough in
many cases to lay out the smoker for awhile. The
islanders used a big bamboo pipe, decorated, 24ft. or
more in length, and Bin. or so in circumference. On
the top-side a hole was pierced (making it some-
thing like a flute), and into this was thrust a
small piece of bamboo containing the weed. After
lighting up the smoker blew the large container full
of smoke; then, withdrawing the “bowl,” he in-
haled the smoke from the hole, taking one pull and
handing the treasure around. A pipe thus smoked
cemented friendship and re-united those who had
quarrelled. When visiting another ' island a party
always took a pipe with them to be smoked on land-
ing as a guarantee of good faith. The unwieldy con-
trivance was generally carried in a basket by a
woman. One of the favorite customs was to test
the leaf crop when it ripened. On an appointed
day the smokers and their pipes assembled at a
garden and tried the growth there. Next day a call
was made at another garden, and so on, and the
man who was awarded the proud distinction of
haying grown the best tobacco was allowed the
privilege of bragging about it all the rest of the
year. The leaf, when dry, was twisted into ropes
some yards long.
* * * *
“Bad Australian” (from the Andes) : The
tnule is the world’s best at packing, and will
cariy anything up to 2501 b. over places where the
least slip means bringing up in the next republic.
I have seen him feeling his way like a cat across
slopes the mere sight of which would drive a horse
frantic, where the icy surface had to be sprinkled
with sawdust or dry dung to give him a footing; and
I hai e seen him at times sitting back on his haunches
sliding down these slopes until the skin of his hocks
and the leather caps which protected them were worn
through; and he rarely failed to deliver the cargo.
He beats his weight at slow haulage, and he is a
reliable team when hitched to a buckboard; and
when he is gifted with a sobre pase (amble) there
is no animal his equal for comfort or endurance on
ft long day’s ride over rough country. I have used
him 600 and 700 at a time for humping materials
from 8000 ft. up to 13,000 ft. over some of the
roughest and steepest pads on the planet, and he
was just as handy with cast-iron water-pipes and
Deranville rails as with cement and galvanised-iron
sheets. He carried many thousand cases of dynamite
up to 13,000 ft. and down the other side to 10,000 ft.,
and although he was about two years on the- high-
er-plosive transport, he didn’t detonate one solitary
box, which shows just what kind of pin he is for a
sure job. Machinery, drums of oil, cases of kero-
sene, beer and whisky, dead men lashed to planks,
presidents, bishops, bandits and demi-mondaines
were all the same to him, and never once did he cut
loose with any of the funny business usually attri-
THE UNION LEVY.
MISTRESS : “Here. Mary Ann, I want you to do a day's scrubbing.”
M ARY ANN : “ How much you gib it ?”
MISTRESs: “I’ll give you three shillings.”
BILLY (chipping in) : “By cripcs, I go halves.”
buted to his family by ignorant people. He will
stay with his job gamely and patiently until he dies
iri his tracks, and I have often seen him plodding
along for 10 or 12 hours at a stretch with 14 or 15
stone up through snow well over his hocks when
horses turned the job down and had to be abandoned
ill the first hour ; and the best ration he ever got
was a few pounds of alfalfa at the beginning and
end of the day. Unlike horses or human beings,
he suffers very little from puna or sorrochi (moun-
tain sickness), and will carry a bigger load at
14,000 ft. or 15,000 ft. than any horse his weight
will at sea-level. Any good, stout, active, clean-
limbed mare will breed a good mule —not a beauty
to look at, as a rule, but a glutton for work when
properly broken and handled. But any old donk
is not good enough to be his father. It will pay
the man who wants to make mule-breeding a success
to install a big Spanish burro as lord of the harem.
“Melos”: I’m reminded of King Billy, of
Boatharbor (N.S.W.), whose wardrobe consisted
of a brass-plate, top hat, cotton shirt and
a' pair of dungarees. The last-named were worn on
special occasions only. One day his Maj. called
at the parsonage and was admonished for appearing
in improper costume. “Where are your trousers?”
asked the indignant lady. Billy hailed his gin,
who was in the background, and she stepped
forward with the missing garment strung round her
neck. The pants were tied at the bottoms and
stuffed with the results of the morning’s cadge.
* * # #
“Ex-rubbiter” from Prince Edward Island :
If Australia is looking for a new industry for her
returned boys, what is against fox-farming? There
is money in it. I am the part proprietor of a small
show, and last month inyself and mate sold nearly
£2OO worth of pelts and we have another lot on
hand for the next sales. Most of the foxes are jet-
black, and their fur very fine, soft and glossy. A
good black dog-fox is worth a lot of money. We
have just paid £4O for a puppy six months old, and
that is a trifle compared with what some of the
breeders pay for dogs to breed from. Last season
a neighbor of ours gave £450 for a pair of prize
foxes, and he has more orders for youngsters than
he will be able to fill for the next five years. Round
about Tambaroora and Hill End would be ideal
places for foxes. In the wild state the fur is hard
and coarse, but it is wonderful how soon it improves
under proper feeding and' “civilising.” On this
island there are hundreds of farms, and most of
them breed only the black fox. Two years ago when
the Government ordered a muster of flocks there were
about 10,000 animals in all. And that year 3000 of
the best pelts were marketed. Now there must
be another thousand (11,000) on the island. Cli-
mate is everything in the breeding of the black fox.
Reds and yellows can be bred in any old climate,
so to speak, and the fur will be fairly good, but
only in the colder parts, and where snow is usual,
does the black fur come to perfection. However, the
yellow dyes well, and it is only an expert who
can tell the difference between the real thing and
the fake.
# * * *
“Dido” : The old traveller came into Yam
late one afternoon in November, while the grass was
still moderately green and there remained a few
buckets of water in what we youngsters had always
known as Saunderson’s well. He was perhaps not
more than 60, but had the traveller’s stoop, and
deep wrinkles puckered the face about the eyes, and
a hide the color of an old saddle gave a whiteness
to the patriarchal hair. Guess the age of the Aus-
tralian walking man, and then knock 10 years off,
and, generally speaking, you will not be mo e than
five years too much. This veteran carried a swag,
and a grey ghost of a dog drifted behind him. He
asked Trigg where Corcoran was living now, and
was told that Corcoran wasn’t known round there.
At Bright’s back door he asked if Wilson had
shifted, and Bright told him he hadn’t the pleasure
of Mr. Wilson’s acquaintance. He asked after sev-
eral other people nobody had ever heard of, and
then went and leaned on the rail fence that provides
Yam’s sudden southerly boundary. He looked at
the remains of the township for a long time, and
wiped his eyes. Later he was seen to drop his swag
by the rocks that had once served to build in Saun-
derson’s well. He measured 20 deliberate steps
in a westerly direction, and drove in a stake. He
then thought matters out a while, and drove in
another stake. He drove two more stakes in the
clump, and lit his camp fire close by. We who had
gathered round, watching developments, saw that to
each stake was tied a bit of colored rag. The old
traveller talked to them as he hammered them into
.the ground, and while his billy boiled he conversed
with them, addressing tbt’jj by name. On e was
Tommy, another was Jinnfe, and the biggest of all,
the one with the red rag round its neck, was Ann.
The old man made his tea and grilled himself
some chops, and he offered some to Ann, and to
Jinnie and Tommy and Dick, and went on with his
meal precisely as if he were giving a party. The
kid population of Yam
watched, open-mouthed, per-
fectly happy in the conviction
that Swaggie was mad and
would do something sensa-
tional presently. Then Cobb
intruded. Cobb was a grown-
up. “’Elio, mate!” he said.
“Wha's the game?” The old
fellow looked up from a mutton-bone. “Oh, jest a
little fancy of mine,” he replied. “I used to live
right on this spot. Me kitchen was ’ere. The
fire was there, an’ the table was ’ere. Ann sat
there. That’s Ann. She was me wife—dead years
an’ years ago. Jinnie used to sit there. The one in
blue is Jinnie. She was the youngest. Went away,
an’ I dunno’ what become of her. Dick lie went
to America. My word, Dick was a splen’id chap!
That’s Tommy’s place. Tommy was the sickly
one. He died while I was at Gympie.” Cobb
clicked his tongue pityingly. “Sure yer all right,
ole bloke?” said he. “Oh, yes, son,” replied the
traveller. “I’m all right. My name’s Saunderson.
You don’t remember the Saundersons V” He asked
this eagerly. “No, you wouldn’t, of course. Well,
I’m Tom Saunderson, an’ I thought I’d just
drop in ’ere once agi’n, an’ look up me fam’ly.”
And old Saunderson went on with his domestic re-
union.
• * * »
“Mrs. Lance Rawson” : The blows Binglii
administers to his prospective bride when he desires
her to up and follow him arc not to be compared
with the wallops one gin will give another when
they are fighting over a husband or a lover. Usually
two of the men, one for each side, stand by to sec
fair play, and each woman is allowed so many blows.
I never saw more than five given, thougjh 1 have
heard them boast of handing out nine, and on one
occasion a gin was brought to the
house looking as if she had received
99. She died the next day, and the
other party to the dispute, which was
over a gentleman with one eye and
half of one foot missing, burnt olf
during a drunken orgie, went for the
rest of her life with her mouth
screwed round towards the back of
her head. Some Maryborough people
will probably remember them —Billy
Five-toes and his gin Nanny. When
the gins decide to scrap they generally
toss for first clout. The one who
wins takes a waddy, and the other
stands with body bent and head
thrust forward. I’ve witnessed many
bouts, and only once saw a gin try to
evade a blow. They stand and take
crack after crack, many of them
severe enough to fell a negro pug.
Once I asked a native woman why she
did not run away instead of
standing quietly to be hit. Her
reply was: “All-a time mine tink it, by cripe, me
gib it dat pfeller hell when me get ’im waddy.”
The men always examine the waddies before the
picnic starts, as the gins are not above introducing
a nail or two into the wood if they are specially
spiteful. I never saw the contestants make friends
after a fight, but I have seen them spit at each
other, then pick up their belongings and go, always
maintaining a stiff upper lip till out of sight of
THE ANNUAL SETTLING.
STATION STOREKEEPER : "You got it £2
credit, Jerry!"
JERRY ( wrathfully ) : “Look ’ere, Boss,
every year you say I got it £2 credit.
’Ere’s the plurry £2, and I won’t pay
you ober again ’nother time. There!"
the enemy. There were two old women belonging to
a Wide Bay and a Fraser’s Island tribe respectively
who fought every time they met, and 10 minutes
after the row was over one of the parties
would come to me for “littie bit vas’line longa
Cassie’s sore feller head. Me bin crack em hard
longa that feller. Close up me breakem head dis
time.” I’d give the vaseline, and in a few minutes
Cassie would arrive. “My word mine been close-up
finis, that old fool Maria’s head belonga ’im
bery sore. You got em littie bit grease belonga
bottle. Me rubbun make ’im more better.” Like
two dogs, they licked each other’s wounds. The
old chap they fought over was nearly blind and
quite deaf. They did it for the honor of leading
him about.
» * * *
“C. Coral”: My native boy came in the
other day saying that Missus had sent him for
“towel belong letter.” After running through a list
of likely articles I discovered that what he wanted
was a sheet of blotting paper.
* * * »
“Pick : The coach-whip bird, who acts as
scout for the lyre, is a small, black, top-knotted
acrobat of wonderful agility that frequents the
jungles where lyres have their dancing mounds.
There, from first dawn until late into the night, the
volatile coachman flits from branch to branch in
never-ending play. No hunter after lyres, however
softly shod or careful in stalking, can hope to get
within range of the shrieking dancer that has a
coach-whip on sentry-go aloft. A harsh g-r-r-r-r
upon the first unusual movement or gun-barrel
glint indicates to the big fellow that there are
enemies afoot, and before the echo of the warning
has got across the gully the game has fled over the
next range.
“Tip”: Walking along the foreshore of
Thursday Island I saw a big nigger lying on his
back and his wife industriously searching through
his thick, woolly hair for small game. I said,
“Hullo, Jaclcy, catchem flea?” Jackv answered, in-
dignantly: “No; I no plurry dog. Catchem lice!”
“L.P.T.”: Several Aussies who were on
munition-work just outside Birmingham with a firm
which before the war manufactured sheep-shearing
machines got permission to use some samples. There
CUPID'S COUNTRY TOUR.
“Kamerad! Kamerad!"
was a handy shed, and the boys looked forward to
making a few bob on the side. Labor being scarce
they soon got on the job. The first pens of woollies
to come in were driven by a withered septuagenarian.
He arrived at 9 a.m. and brought his dinner. There
were five machines in all and Hob the Ringer sur-
veying the small mob and listening to the usher
calling to “Jinny,” “Fanny,” etc., to behave them-
selves, turned witli a grin. “We’ll give the old chap
and his sheep a surprise,” he said. “Get to ’em.”
The lads hustled those jumbucks off their hoofs
and tore into them like demons. It was a toss-up
which was the more paralysed, the shepherd or his
flock. In a little over a quarter of an hour the job
was done, and Farmer Hodge was being revived
at the little near-by pub. “Lord a-mercy!” he gasped
as he emerged from the third pot.
* * * *
“Zanthus”: Black brother mostly didn’t
get beyond scratching, but he had one real mine.
It is in the Gascoyne River country (W.A.), and he
was after red ochre. There are regular drives, short,
but the real thing, and he even had staging, rough
but effective, in the galleries.
* * * *
“Enanemee” : This is how a doleful-visaged
New Britain boy described the drought to me when
I made my trading visit in 1918:
“Rain, he no come. Boy, he no got kai-kai, no got
water, no got sweet potato, no got yam, no got taro,
lie no good. Konk-kong rice one fella bag one
fella ten-mark. Me no got mark, no catehem rice.
Then me kai-kai cocoanut all time. Me no like.
Old-fella cocoanut tree he die, finis. Small-fella all
same. Banan, he too lik-lik. Paw-paw, he fall down'.
Why rain he no come? I think by-um-by me die,
finis. Mary belonga me sick too much; kai-kai
plenty fis (fish) too much. Me tink she die, finis,
go along top. Pretty true, master, me no gammon.
You got lik-lik tobac? Tank you, you good-fella
master too much. You got massis (matches). Me
no got. Plenty fella everything no good.”
* * * #
“Rivei-ina”: The brightest spot in bird
life in N. S. Wales is the red-capped robin. Slightly
smaller than his flame-breasted relatives found in
hilly countries, this fellow’s waistcoat is more in-
tensely scarlet, and he wears in addition an equally
brilliant skull cap. His lady-love is a rather dingy
little person in a dress of drab, with a faint blush
in front. The red-cap is no musician. His “song”
is simply a subdued croaking, like a Tory frog under
a feather pillow.
# * # *
“Gouger” : Have you ever gone looking for
a dead man’s bush-secret? Chasing a will-o’-the-wisp
gives definite results by comparison. A teamster
coming in from the Palmer goldfields, and looking
for his horses one morning, stumbled across a reef,
and on knocking the cap off found it to be rich in
gold. A couple of days after he was jerked off his
waggon and a wheel went over his neck. His
black boy brought the news and the specimen into
Cooktown. Scores of men have spent hungry months
looking for that reef, in vain. Many years ago old
Jardine, up at the top end of Cape York, picked up
a famished prospector in the bush and tended him
till deatli took a hand. For Jardine’s humanity the
prospector left him a “shammy” full of gold and a
rough plan of a creek which, as he described it, was
a “jeweller’s shop.” Jardine was doing well at the
time with his.pearling cutters, and put the plan
away. Later a cyclone wrecked his fleet, and about
the same time his house was burnt down. He then
thought of the dead prospector’s creek, and remem-
bered that he had put the plan of it between the
leaves of one of his favorite books; and the library
had been destroyed with the house. Jardine tried
three times and failed to find that creek.
My mates and I were hacking our way through
dense scrub in very desolate country on the big
ranges between the head of the Normanbv and
Palmer rivers when we came upon a big cairn of
rocks. Each stone was tightly packed in place,
and must have been carried a long distance, as
there were none close handy. The cairn could only
mean one of two things. Very improbably it was
a grave; more likely it marked a “find.” Under
the stones was a Chinaman’s skeleton, and between
the feet was a roughly-made clay brick. Cut deep
into it were some curious characters, and inside
were 50 ounces of alluvial gold. We prospected
that country for miles around, but could not find
any trace of where the gold had come from. But
it haunts me still, and I know I shall have to
go looking for it again some day.
THE LAST WHIP.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN .]
When the last whip has cracked and the cattle
Lie snug in the cleft of the hill;
When the clatter of hoofs and the rattle
Are gone and the coastlands are still;
When the camp-fire burns pale in the starlight,
And dreams with the shadows contend—
It is then that I see, as a far light,
Your face when we parted, old friend 1
I have ridden in many a round-up,
And mates in their fullness I’ve known—
Real white men and true from the ground up,
But none with a heart like your own.
Sleep sound in your currant-bush cluster,
Till silence shall ring to our tread,
When the last whip is cracked and God’s muster
Has yarded the souls of the dead.
VICTOIU A.
BERNARD CRONIN.


MELODY AND MILK. — 'A Hint to Australian Dairy Farmers.)
“Phonograph and orchestral music has become a regular milking-time feature on a large stock farm in Ohio (U.S.A.), it having been found after repeated tests that the yield of the cows is greater when they are milked to the tune of
tome soft, melodious selection.” —American paper.


The Enemy.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
W IIENAS youth was yet mine own,
And I blushed where shame was not;
When I, dreaming, walked alone,
By all other life forgot;
Wished I then, not love nor hate,
But to know what was my fate.
Told me all the women wise—
Many an old and withered dame— ;
Of the saddened, piteous eyes
That should weep yet for my shame;
Told me jargon of the cards,
How I’d break my life to shards.
“Diamond women, be ye ’ware!
Love ye lady of the spades!
Queen of all the heart-cards fair
Points your passage to the shades;
Ladies of the clubs your bane,
But all women bring you gain!
“Letters come across the sea;
Money hastens to your house;
’Ware the call of revelry ;
’Ware the snake, the rat, the mouse;
Though you live to ancient be,
Sturdy grows your coffin-tree.
“Sunlight has no foes for thee;
Daylight is thy steadfast friend;
But all creeping things that be
Gnaw thy heart; nor may ye mend.
Rat, and thief, and mole, and snake
Shall thy noose and coflin make.”
11l content, I otherwhere
Tried my fortune with the wise.
Silvered all her unbound hair;
Ancient passion in her eyes;
She, with action cold and calm,
Took my hand and read my palm.
“Here the clear-cut line of life
Testifies longevity ;
You shall have a tender wife,
And a tender father be;
And, at last, ere you can cry,
You shall quickly, gladly die.
“You shall have a-many friends.
And shall see your friendships go;
But your fortune makes amends,
And life’s currents sweetly flow.
Gold shall come —not long to stay—-
You shall laugh long every day.”
Who would stay content with these,
Prattler, gig and charlatan?
All life’s generalities
Used to specialise a man.
To an ancient man went I.
Asking him how I should die.
Laughed he at the women wise,
At their tales by card and palm.
Life looked out from his deep eyes;
Said it was not bane, nor balm ;
But an oxymel that’s mixed
By a rule full steadfast fixed.
NATURAL HISTORY.
HOPE (thirsting after knowledge): "Pa, what's a magpie like?”
PA ( irritably): “ Oh , go and listen to your mother!"
“Life for you is happiness,”
Said that elder, wise and grey;
“Praise, and fortune, and caress.
None shall make your life a prey.
Perfect shall your long years be,
Walk ye safe from treachery.
“Lions, and the thunderbolt,
Carry never harm to you ;
Safe by wood and hill and holt
All things make your safety true;
All the fates take thee in care;
All the gods guard everywhere.
“Ocean shall refuse to take
In its storms thy gracious life;
Earth decline for thee to make
Iron for the murderer’s knife;
Fire refuse its flame to burn
Thee untimely to the urn.”
Hot with joy, I turned to go
From that blessed augury;
“Soft,” said he; “full soft and slow;
Full shall this thy fortune be!”
“Water, fire and earth,” said I,
“Are my friends. I cannot die.”
“Youth,” he said, with patience mild,
“Though the water, earth and fire
Shirk their duty, yet defiled
Thou/and trampled in the mire;
But shall never ended be
Till thou find’st thine enemy.
“Life shall be complete when thou
Sift thy friends and find thy foe;
Tear the mask from off his brow,
See him pale and paler grow;
Till he grovel at thy feet,
Proven murderer and cheat.”
All the sunlight seemed to pale;
All the world grew colorless;
But I knew that prayers would fail,
And that neither smile nor stress
Would avail, so, heavily,
Went to seek mine enemy.
Thankful was the breath I drew;
Pride of life sang in my blood ;
Daily miracle the dew.
Sunlight-wonder, flower and flood ;
All the faery gifts were mine,
And I drank the world like wine.
Fled with joy from towns of men;
Couched beneath a velvet star;
Loved the silent plain, the fen,
Better than the towns that mar;
Rode all day the wide plains free,
Slept by water and a tree.
Rose and fell; was strong and weak;
Missed and erred and rose again;
Said the words I would not speak,
Did the deeds I-knew were vain;
Good and ill for mastery
Strove, and evil thwarted me.
In my flesh, in discontent.
Clay and spirit, in the lists,
Jousted in the tournament —
Light that fought mephitic mists;
All the good I threw o’erside'
From my galleons of pride.
All the flotsam that is youth
Changed to jetsam that is age;
Love of ease debauching truth,
Selfishness that blots the page;
Weakness of maturity
Strength brought to my enemy.
Love that alters, ill or well.
Made unselfish for a time :
But the world’s insidious spell.
Common made the blackbird’s rhyme;
Common made the sun and sea—
I thought all were made for me.
Thankful breath was careless breath ;
No more miracle the day ;
No belief gave I to death ;
No more gratitude I'd pay.
Love, the miracle, so dear,
Left me humble but a year.
Then I, seeing but a slave,
Who I thought had empress been,
Grew a tyrant, and I drave
Love, that trusted me —serene
That I shamed the gods in pride;
When it knew the truth, it died.
Though the dear illusion's gone.
Yet the gods may make life new;
If but grace returned, that shone
Ere the drying of the dew :
But, where pride goes haughtily,
Man cannot repent, but die!
Or make effort, as of old.
Trying to retrieve the lost;
Staking, with a brow still bold.
More than all. despite the cost;
Throwing gold where silver went,
Honor after lost love sent,
As a sorely wounded beast
Runs through forest, copse and brake;
Fear of death its terror least,
Hoping old paths to forsake;
Fleeing from the agony
Of a soul’s lone misery.
“Now,” said I. “the hour is sure
That I find my long-sought foe;
Creeping weasels that endure
When the noble horse is low ;
When his strength shall quit the race,
Lost by his own gallant pace.
THE MAN WHO FELL OUT.
DRUNK: "Hi! Cabby, you've ( hie) dropped
something!”
“And,” said I, “O ancient man !
Weary, I have searched the earth ;
(Jive me benisou or ban,
Show me him who, since my birth,
Tricked and thwarted, cozened me!
Show me now mine enemy.”
“In thine house, O weary man,
Is a chamber closed and dark;
There, thy benison or ban,
Veiled and cobwebbcd. thou shalt mark.
Break thine heart, and break that room,
Find thine enemy, and doom.”
Cowards are we all. at last,
When we face the verities;
All the pain of all the past
Chilled the heart and quaked the knees;
Yet, though death be. I must know,
Force the door and find the foe.
Dusty that deserted room ;
Thickened air and labored breath ;
All within it spoke of doom.
Silence and accepted death:
Mouldering wainscot, falling frieze,
Rotting with old memories.
But half-light a sunshaft made.
Cobwebbcd pane, and broken door;
There are toys that childhood laid
In the dust upon the floor ;
Toys that once were hope and truth,
Selfishness had robbed from youth.
Footfalls, silent as the dust.
Were as footfalls on my heart;
’Twas that grave of youthful trust
Made old memories to start.
Knew I, by the veil of doom,
That my foe was in the room.
Then I boldly took the veil.
Rotting in the spider’s threads;
Fast it was with iron nail.
But I tore it into shreds:
Creeping things ran from their place,
And I looked into his face.
Yet no picture ’neath the veil.
But a mirror, cracked, athwart;
Sneering lips and eyes of bale.
Face that did my face distort;
So, at last, in surety.
I had found mine enemy.
Not as I myself had seen
In the flattering glass by night;
But more agfed. lean and mean
Than appeared to others’ sight;
That, my other self of doom.
Lurking in the silent room !
Vengeance shall I have on him
Who hath made me agonise;
For his death no eye shall dim,
As and when a good man dies;
Though I kill myself, yet he
Shall not live mine enemy.
Murder, thus, and suicide,
Ilaste to darkness from the sun,
When mine enemy hath died —-
Slain and slayer all in one.
As my youth has, without ruth,
Slain me, so I slay my youth.
Close the door and strain the ear
To the weasel and the mouse,
That within the darkness fear,
Y~et bring death unto the house;
Close the door, and let me free
Me from my dark enemy !
HOT ANY BAY.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
An Aspirin Tragedy.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
REGGIE HEATHCOTE and Arthur
Mortdale, subalterns in the Clankshire
Yeomanry, lurked in their tent and
gloomily considered the future. For over
nine months their regiment bad been sta-
tioned on the outskirts of Cairo, and now, in
a financial sense, they were up against it.
They owed every-
body, from their fol-
low-officers to the
native usurers, from
cigarette vendors to
Arabs who had
washed for them:
and their mess
accounts were so
stupendous that the
secret a r y cursed
every time he heard
their names.
“We’ve simply got
to do something,”
muttered Mortdale
fretfully—an irritat-
ingly futile remark
which hi' had been
making regularly for
weeks past.
“Exactly,” said
Ileathcote, with in-
tensity. “And I’ve
decided what it’s
going to be.”
Putting his head
through the flap of
the tent he took a
careful look round.
The landscape wore
that deserted aspect
which is usual in
cam]) just after
lunch. lie ap-
proached his mouth
close to the other's
ear. “We’re going,”
he said, “to collar
Mrs. All price's dia-
monds.”
“Oh!” wailed his
friend, in a panic.
“Oh-h, Reggie!
Theft! Burglary! Crime! What are you
thinking of?”
“Shut up!” commanded Ileathcote. “It’s
that or ruin, and I’m damned if I mean to
be ruined. Now, no bleating for about two
minutes and I’ll explain my scheme. I've
thought the whole thing out, and, barring
the rottenest bad luck, it ought to come off.
In the first place, we have to strike a night
when the things are in her bedroom.
I’ve noticed that after she’s worn the dia-
monds or pearls, as the case may be, for
four or five nights she gets sick of them, or
something, and puts on a set of red
things—some sort of rubies. It's odds
on she’ll wear these to-night. Most
of her pals at the Continental dine
about eight, and she goes down between then
and half-past. At quarter to nine her maid
has supper in the servants’ hall. I’ve sur-
veyed the rooms from the outside. There’s
a short, darkish passage, with the bedroom
at the end and a bathroom on one side and
a sitting-room on the other. At 5.30 we buy
a couple of bath-tickets, to justify our being
about the corridors with stray niggers,
housemaids and so on, and go up to the
second floor. You stand at the end of the
passage and watch while I pick the lock of
the bedroom-door. I can do that quickly.
I’ve been practising with different locks for
weeks. When I get inside I shall simply
fall to and burst open every drawer in the
room. Speed, not silence, is the idea. I’ll
want you inside to help—to hold those in-
fernal rieketty dressing-tables that women
use, and so on. In ten minutes we ought to
be off —probably with the diamonds, in
which case we’re solvent for life—anyhow,
with something. By God! Three or four
rings, or a pair of gold-backed hair-brushes,
would be better than nothing, as things
stand.”
The lady whom it was proposed to plunder
was well known by sight to the Clankshires.
For several months she had carried on a
sensationally open affair with Hilton Fortes-
cue, the pride and glory of the regiment.
Fortescue possessed most of the things that
make life worth living—health, good looks,
money, charm; he was a sportsman, and as
generous and amiable as he was popular.
As someone once remarked, be had every
virtue except Virtue. Ilis morals are deplor-
able, and his code such that he thought little
more of dropping a woman, when she began
to bore him, than he would of dismissing a
servant. His association with Mrs. Allprice
had ended, abruptly, upon the appearance
in Cairo of pretty Ethel Akroyd, and the
jilted widow was said to have taken it
badly.
* * * *
The moment Evening Stables were over
Ileathcote and Mortdale changed into town
kit and steered for the Continental bar,
where they swallowed, in sneedy succession,
two cocktails apiece. Mortdale was for hav-
ing a third, his nerves being still frayed,
but Ileathcote checked him. “No, old soul,”
said the master-mind. “Until dinner that’s
your limit,” and the other, as always,
acquiesced. They dined early, and by 7.30
had begun their coffee and cigars in the
lounge. At 8.20 Mrs. Allprice sailed out of
the lift wearing her rubies. At 8.35 the
maid disappeared into her friend the house-
keeper’s room. By quarter to nine Mort-
dale was shudderingly keeping watch on the
main corridor while his accomplice worked
with cool skill on the bedroom door. It
opened easily and they passed inside. The
diamonds were in the first drawer that


Heathcote burst open. “Go and see if the
coast’s clear,” he said exultantly, cramming
the gems into his coat-pocket, “while I
risk two more minutes looking for the
pearls.”
At that moment Mrs. Allprice entered the
room. She crossed at once to a small desk,
took out a business-like revolver, pushed
four cartridges into it and said :
“Now, cough up.” Heathcote silently put
the diamonds back in the drawer. “Get over
there into that corner,” she continued, “and
NOT “ALL THERE.”
ROUSEABOUT : “I see the boss is going in for golf!”
BILLY (whose acquaintance with the game is limited): “My word! That pheller always
bin a bit cranky, mine thinkit.”
if either of you moves I’ll wing him in the
leg. I’m going to telephone for my maid.”
In a couple of minutes the maid arrived.
“And now that we’re a nice little family
party,” she said, “we can talk business.
I see”—nodding at their coat-lapels—“you’re
in the Clankshires. You seem a bright lot in
that regiment, one way and another. Know
Captain Fortescue?”
“He’s O.C. of our squadron,” answered
Heathcote.
Mrs. Allprice thought for a moment.
“I’m disposed to give you a chance of
escaping gaol,” she said, “on terms.”
“Oh, any terms, any terms, Mrs. Allprice,”
wailed Mortdale distractedly.
“Shut up, you ass,” snapped Ileathcote;
and to their captor, “What are the terms?”
“I Avant you,” said the lady, “within a
week, to throw Captain Fortescue over the
Zamalek Bridge.”
A neigh of despair burst from Mortdale.
“Murder !” he cried. “Cold-blooded murder !”
“What, exactly, do you want done?” asked
Heathcote. “Do you want him killed?”
Mrs. Allpri,ce had never cared nearly
enough for Fortescue to desire his death;
still less did she wish to be his butcher, by
proxy or othenvise. Wounded vanity was
more her trouble. “No-o,” she replied. “Just
throAvn into the river.”
Heathcote’s quick brain was already at
work.
“We might use a boat, then,” he suggested.
“You may use any old thing you like,” she
answered. “But what you’ve got to do now
is sign the confessions Avhich I am going to
write out for you. If you haAmn’t acted
within a week I shall use them.”
They signed the confessions, and then
Heathcote spoke : “There’s one —er —rather
awkward matter which I must mention—-
money. We have none, and a slioav like this
is bound to cost a bit.” Mrs. Allprice smiled.
The icy nerve of the young man rather
appealed to her. “How much?” she in-
quired.
“Well—say, fifteen.”
She opened her desk. “Here’s tAventy,”
she said. “Now get out.”
* * * *
In the bar, a feAV minutes later, Mortdale
attempted to give rein to his feelings. “Drop
that!” said Heathcote sternly. “We’ve
failed through what I’m certain Avas sheer
bad luck. Having failed, our business is not
to waste time whining, but to do something.
I've a sort of half baked plan in my head
already.
“What!” moaned the other in a dis-
traught manner. “Would you drown For-
tescue?”
“No, you fool,” said Heathcote. “Now,
listen to me. Didn’t you say something the
other day about his being willing to dine
Avith you?”
“Yes,” answered Heathcote miserably.
“Do you think you could get him for
to-morrow or the night after? AnyhoAV,
you’ve got to get him for one night this
Avcek; so that’s settled. The dinner will be
in the grill room at Shepheard’s. My notion
is this. We make an appearance of heavy
drinking (I’ll explain the object of that
afterwards), while keeping as sober as pos-
sible ourselves, and, more particularly, see-
ing that Fortescue keeps sober. After dinner
Ave get him into the garden. I don’t care a
curse how hard it is, we get him there if
we have to say there’s a woman lying dead
on one of the seats. I'll have a car at that
side entrance on the lane. At the first
chance Ave grab him, gag him, tie him up and
put him in the car. I drive : you sit behind
and watch him. At the bridge Ave take the
ropes and gag off and chuck him over. He’s
a good SAvimmer. He SAvam for Oxford, or
something, and I know he’s one of the best
in the Bath Club. In addition, the boat will
be there to pick him up. With no drink in
him. to speak of. he’ll be as safe as houses.”
“But afterwards,” moaned Mortdale.
“What will he say? What will he do?”
“For God’s sake, pull yourself together”
said Heathcote irritably. “Our present aim
is to escape penal servitude. By comparison
with that the worst that Fortescue can man-
age is trivial. Anyhow, I don’t believe he’ll
be able to do much.”
“Why?”
“For the plain and obvious reason that his
story will seem too wild, too unlikely. No
one will believe it. More especially if we
can establish that we were all tight. But
what’s the good of looking so far ahead ? The
first thing is to get him to dinner, and that’s
your pigeon. You’ll please attend to it to-
morrow morning.”
* * * *
Fortescue had known Mortdale’s people all
his life, and he liked the boy well enough.
A PARABLE (MORAL QUITE PLAIN).
You may think that this Large Dog, which is Running Away from the Small Cur with
an Obvious Air of Being Tired of the Whole Proceedings, is Frightened. It is
Not So. The Large Dog has a Master who objects to him Making a mess on the
Pavement with Remains of Small Curs. He is a Good Dog and so Doesn’t.
He agreed to dine on the following Thursday,
which was three days within the limit set
bv Mrs. Allprice. Heathcote ordered the
dinner with the zest of an epicure. A fea-
ture of it was a magnum of St. Marceaux
[9B, a champagne which was highly popular
in Cairo that year. Fortescue was gratified
when he discovered the preparations that
had been made for him. After a fleeting
speculation as to how his host was going to
pay, he settled down to an enjoyable evening.
There was but one fly in the ointment of his
content. Both youths were unaccountably
slow in circulating the liquor. His glass was
never more than half-full, and just as he was
about to lodge a protest, Mortdale disgusted
him by sending the wine away on the ground
that it had gone as flat as if it was ullaged.
Another magnum was ordered, but it only
turned up when the sweet was being served,
and in the end it was left three-parts full.
Fortescue never quite remembered how he
came, later, to be wandering in the deserted
hotel garden with his young friends. On the
other hand, he will not forget, so long as he
lives, his feelings when one of them leapt
silently at his throat and tied a bandage over
his mouth, while the other lashed his arms
to his sides, and then threw him heavily and
trussed up his legs. On the brief journey to
Zamalek Bridge he tried to cow his com-
panion with his eyes, but Mortdale kept his
hang-dog gaze averted. Ileathcote’s pro-
gramme was put through with remarkable
success. There were few people on the
bridge as the car stopped. Fortescue, a
nightmare of flying legs and arms, went over,
with a yell of horror, the instant the gag was
torn from his mouth. At once the car fled
madly towards the dark avenue of acacias
which leads to Mena. But there was no pur-
suit. The malefactors were able, at their
leispre, to remove the chauffeur’s costumes
in which they had disguised themselves and
to tear off the coverings which they had put
on the number-plates of the car. Within an
hour they were back in camp, and having-
provided a life-like imitation of intoxication,
which they took care should be witnessed by
as many senior officers as possible, they
sought their tent.
Fortescue was driven, capless, dripping
and foaming with rage, to the Club, his
misery being increased, if possible, by the
fact that Mrs. Allprice passed in her car, in
a well-lighted street, and nodded to him. To
get back to camp that night was out of the
question. lie handed his polluted clothes to
a valet, and went to bed.
Heathcote was pleased to find, next morn-
ing, that Fortescue was missing. He had
put in most of the night rehearsing Mortdale
in their joint defence —which was, briefly,
that they had all been drunk —and it made
the story look likelier. He refused to enter-
tain his friend’s theory that their victim had
been drowned, and his breakfast-mood was
quite blithe. At 11.30 a.m. Fortescue
arrived menacingly in a gharry. At midday
the Adjutant notified the two friends that
they were to parade immediately before the
Colonel.
They found their Chief at his desk with
Captain Fortescue standing near. “And
now, gentlemen,” he began, “before I put
you both under arrest, I want some sort of
an explanation of your abominable, your
criminal conduct last night.”
“Neither of us was really drunk, sir”
began Heathcote innocently.
“I’m not talking of drunkenness —though,
by all accounts, the condition of both of you
was deplorable when you got back to camp.
I’m referring to your wanton assault on
Captain Fortescue.”
“Assault Captain Fortescue !” cried Heath-
cote.
“Why, it’s madness, sir!” protested Mort-
dale, whose schooling during the watches of
the night had been thorough.
“You deny it, then?”
/ “I’d as soon assault”
1. “The thing’s too preposterous”
“Look here, you’ll have to drop this infer-
nal chorus business. Mr. Mortdale, keep
quiet for the present, please. Mr. Heath-
cote, you, as senior, may answer for both. I
am to understand, then, that you did not
throw Captain Fortescue over the Zamalek
Bridge?”
Heathcote did not answer. He looked
from his colonel to his captain and hack
again as though some incredible practical
joke were being played on him. It was
really well done.
“Speak out,” said the Colonel angrily.
“I’m stupefied, sir. It’s as if I were asked,
seriously, did I try to cut your throat? I
think the world of Captain Fortescue. We
all do. Why should I leant to throw him
over a bridge?”
“You damned young liar!” came explo-
sively from the other side of the Colonel. The
latter was on his dignity at once.
NO CHOICE.
“Did he leave her much?”
“Well, he didn’t get a chance. She was
always out with young Slasher!”
‘‘Not a word from you, Captain Fortescue,
while I am conducting this inquiry. Your
interruption was grossly improper. Be silent,
sir!”
“If, sir,” said Heathcote, patiently, “I
knew just what we are supposed to have
done, I would be in a fairer position.” He
was told, his eyes bulging with bogus wonder
as the story went on.
“And I have to take this mad accusation
seriously, sir?” he said.
“Certainly,” said the Colonel fiercely,
though he was beginning to be impressed by
the youth’s manner.
“Might I ask Captain Fortescue one or
two questions?”
The request was granted.
“Did you take the number of the car, sir?”
“Of course, I didn’t. How the devil
could I?”
“Did you see the shawish on the bridge?”
“No. He must have been at the other end.
You can be sure I looked for him.”
“Did anyone see you being thrown into
the water?”
“Quite possibly not. There never is much
traffic there at night, and we stopped at a
particularly dark and quiet place. You
looked after that, you young devil.
“Did you ask the boatman his name?”
“Now why, in the name of Heaven, should
I? JVo. I gave him 100 piastres, and went
off to find a taxi.”
“Was there anyone where you landed?”
“In point of fact, no. The man had to row
a long way down-stream before he could find
suitable steps. (Or so he said; I’m quite
prepared now to find he was in your pay.)
And the place I got out at was deserted.”
The Colonel, who had been growing stead-
ily more restive, interposed:
“So it comes to this, Captain Fortescue.
You haven’t a single witness, barring your-
self and the state of your clothes, to the
truth of your most unlikely story?”
“With the utmost respect, sir,” said Heath-
cote, “if I might make a suggestion, we
had all dined fairly well. Isn’t it possible
the explanation may lie there? I fancy Mr.
Mortdale has the bill.”
Mortdale produced it.
“That,” said Heathcote, as the Colonel
studied it, “was apart, of course, from cock-
tails, and so on.”
“You certainly seem to have punished the
liquor,” said the Colonel drily, as he handed
back the document.
“Might I submit, sir,” said Heathcote,
with a convincing air of reluctance, “that
the dinner —er —disagreed with Captain
Fortescue, as it did with Mr. Mortdale and
myself? Neither of us saw him after about
nine o’clock, when we left the grill-room,
and he went into the billiard-room bar.
Isn’t it conceivable that he stumbled into
some water, perhaps even into the river, and
that, by some freak of the imagination, he
came to think we put him there?”
The Colonel’s mind was made up.
“Fortescue,” he said, turning kindly to
that now almost speechless warrior, “you
must admit that you haven’t enough evi-
dence to hang a dog on. I couldn’t move a
foot on it. We’ll put the case this way:
that you all got a bit above yourselves, and
forgot exactly what happened for a while.
Let it be a lesson in future on the wisdom
of going slow with the wine. And now let
us try to forget the whole painful business,
which is nothing for any of you to feel
proud of, at the best.” And he rose as an
indication that the matter was ended.
* * * *
“Arthur, old soul,” said Heathcote cheer-
fully. as they walked away, “this evening
I call upon our friend at the Continental.”
“To get the con the papers?”
“Yes, and something more. I want my
curiosity satisfied.”
Mrs. Allprice sent for Heathcote as soon
as his name was brought to her.
“You worked it very cleverly,” she smiled
as he entered her sitting-room. “Your little
what-nots are on the desk.” Heathcote
put them in his pocket.
“Mrs. Allprice,” he said, his hand on the
door-knob, “will you answer one question
before I go?”
‘‘Yes,” she said, “if I can.”
“Why did you come upstairs that night?”
“To get my aspirin tablets.”
He gazed at her thoughtfully for a
moment, then: “Damn and blast aspirin!”
he murmured, and closed the door gently
behind him.
J. B. D


Gold Seeking.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE birds sing still on the wooded ranged,
The trees and blossoms are there to
seek;
Yet clime and time have chimed their
changes
Since we hunted for gold in TOny’s Creek.
’Twas little you hankered for silks and laceS,
And little I thought of the big world then—
Two brown-armed urchins with eager faces,
Panning the sands like digger men.
Though days have perished and years iie
buried,
I see you now as you used to be ;
From eyes of hazel that dimmed and merried,
The woman you are looked out dn me.
The woman you are with your dash and
daring,
Your curve and color of throat and cheek,
Was there, all there —at my elbow, faring—
A hoyden of twelve in Tony's Creek.
Like a brown bee haunting the milk-white
clover,
I love to think of the flowered past!
Come out from the present, and talk it
over—-
That green, young season too sweet to last.
Tony’s Creek with its rocks and shallows
Glanced and gleamed on its secret way,
Hovered over by swift wood swallows,
Dragon flies and the winds at play.
A leisured stream in a land of leisure,
It wound its way through the chequered
light;
Hither and thither we splashed at pleasure,
Seeking for gold in its bed of white.
The gudgeons grouped in its shallows scat-
tered
To group again, when we passed them by;
Though all was lonely, it little mattered ;
The birds and the flowers and the trees
were nigh.
The watching trees in the quiet weather
Took interest, sure, in our childish quest,
As when grown people grow mute together
The while one opens an ancient chest —■
The brass-bound chest (if a dead Sea-rover
Tide-borne at night from an unknown wreck ;
’TwaS thus the oak and the gum bent over
The while We searched for a golden speck.
Through pool and margin, bal’e-legged and
bootless,
We splashed till the magpies’ sundown call J
Though vain our quest and our labors fruit-
less,
Yet something came of them, after all.
Do you remember the fledgling plover,
The plover’s nest on the tufted ground,
So neatly hidden, So sunk in clover,
That, crossing the flats, one noon we found?
I mind that day (when the sunset filling
The still sweet glooms of the woodland grey
With rose and purple) we watched, blood
thrilling,
The bower-bird’s arch with the bird at play.
’Twas you that found it—your eyes grown
sunny,
Their depths of hazel with joyance lit—-
The gnn rled old tree with its heart of honey!
How the bees raged round when we plun-
dered it!
What time the Bush like a kindly wizard
Wrapped tree and creek in a golden swoon,
The coiled black snake and the bronze-green
lizard,
The noon-hour through and the afternoon—
THE SUBURBANITES.
“I say, Brown, I understand you have
Bowden’s rake."
“I have.”
“Well, if you lend it to me occasionally I’ll
let you use Barnes’s lawnmower when-
ever you like."
Have you forgotten the hush enthralling,
The strange, sweet Presence that dwelt
therein,
The something calling, and always calling,
To that within us Which was its kin?
What though in gravel or nne sand bedded
We saw no lustre of washed gold shine;
In those large moments our souls were
wedded
To Beauty’s self in her sylvan shrine.
Thus, night and day when the world’s wine
tested . ,
Proves stale, and bitter, and water-weak,
We’ll quest again, as of old we quested.
Two brown-armed urchins of Tony s ( reek.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Garibaldi Hogan, Detective.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BLITHERTON was overjoyed when
the popular weekly publication known
as Sllj&h of The EahTil offered him
fIOO for a really exciting serial detective
story to l'tin through about ten issues, lie
said he had discovered a splendid name and
title for the Central figure— Garibaldi Hogan,
HetCctive. “Yon know he’s got to be a sort
of super-Sherlock Holmes, Old Boomer, the
editor; wants the yUi’h to be full of sur-
prises, and, as I’ve got to do it in a hurry,
I strhck a splendid scheme, I’iti going to
A NOONDAY CALL.
HOUSEWIFE: “I cannot give you money, but you may have something to eat.”
EXQUISITE HENRY: “Thunk you, no, Madam —I dine at seven.”
start without any definite plot and pile up
a lot of mystery full of the most hopeless-
looking tangles. Then when 1 think it has
developed sufficiently I'll set to and worry
out some sort of explanation. Yon see. old
man, it’s no good trying to surprise your
readers if you don't surprise yourself first.
I have never tried writing a mystery story
before; but most of the ones I have read
give themselves away long before the end.
Why? Simply because the author has it all
outlined in his mind. Now I’m going to get
over that by not knowing myself what the
next development of the story is going to be.
I’ve got the first instalment written, and it
reads well. Look out for it in to-morrow s
Slush, and let me know what you think of
it. Good-bye, old man.”
Slush of the Earth arrived next morn-
ing, and I turned over the leaves till I found
Blitherton’s great experiment:—
OUR GRAND NEW SERIAL.
THE MISSING BODY.
(By Horatio Blitherton.)
Chapter I.
A hatless man running at top speed Is always bound
to attract attention; but when the runner is elderly
and fat, and wears odd boots and waves an evening
paper he can’t help but create a sensation. One
Tuesday evening (it was overcast, and the thermom-
eter had been steadily dropping for two days), just
as the early crowds of clerks and typists were
streaming towards the Quay, Pitt-street was violently
agitated by the sight of a little man running along
like a rabbit. He threaded his way rapidly through
the opposing stream of foot traffic and took no notice
of the excitement created by his passing. Without
once pausing for breath, he sped along, his short legs
twinkling like the spokes of a wheel. At sight ot
him cabmen whipped up their horses or tuned up
their taxis, and, running in as close as they dared
to the kerb, shouted offers of transportation. But
the little man did not seem to hear them ; with gaze
fixed straight ahead, he breathed hard through his
nose and spurned the pavement with his odd boots,
thereby propelling himself through the atmosphere at
a hio-h rate of speed for nothing. The spectacle of a
maneconomising in this manner seemed to annoy the
pursuing cabmen, each of whom shouted some insult
appropriate to the occasion before pulling up in a
huff. The whole street was now ablaze with in-
terest; the excitement engendered by the little man s
wonderful performance —if indeed it was intended as
a performance —had run ahead of him, so to speak,
and the people above King-street were awaiting him
on tiptoe, though as yet he had not reached Mai tin-
place By this time two policemen were pounding
heaviiy at his heeels and another just ahead was
waiting with arms outstretched in a fowl-catching
attitude, when the fugitive doubled into the corridor
of the G.P.0., dashed to the slot marked City, and
shot something into it. As he turned, the three
policemen and the following crowd poured like a
breaking wave into Martin-place and swirled angrily
* '“What’s the matter?” demanded the stoutest and
most important policeman. “What did you run like
The little man looked about him like a startled
child. “I—l was only running to catch the post!
he mumbled. , , , , , . . <<T4 .
The fattest policeman looked at him wildly. it
must have been an important letter !
“It was,” faltered the little man. It was for a
free sample bottle of hair-restorer. The special offer
closes to-night.” ~
While the fat policeman was thinking it oier the
little man wriggled away through the crowd and
hurried across to a taxi, which he engaged, and then
“That’s a curious old pot!” said the fattest con-
stable, staring after him.
“Wonder who he wanted the hair-restorer for?”
said the next-fattest constable. “Got a good head of
hair already himself.”
The fattest constable jumped. “You suret”
“Yes, certain!”
“That's rum ! I could have sworn he was bald !
“Partly bald !■” corrected the third constable.
“That's an example of the power of suggestion,”
said the second-fattest, condescendingly. “When he
said hair-restorer you naturally thought he wanted it
for himself.”
“No, I didn’t!” ~
“How did you come to think he was bald, then?
“I know he was bald!”
“Hut he wasn’t bald, 1 tell you!”
The fattest constable swelled up slowly with rage
and doubt. “Well, all 1 can say is that if he wasn’t
bald, it ought to be reported to headquarters!”
"That’s just what I was going to suggest.”
So it was formally reported to headquarters, with
all due solemnity and respect, that the little man
(name unknown) who had posted a letter at 5.47 in
the City box of the G.1’.0. on the evening of Septem-
ber 24. 1914, for a sample of hair-restorer (brand
unknown), wasn’t bald at all, and that the circum-
stances must be regarded as highly suspicious. A
police-clerk, with red hair and a wart on his right
ear, marked the report “Y —L. 498.” and put it
carefully in a pigeonhole, where it was subsequently
eaten by rats (names unknown).
One stormy night, three months later, the above
facts were carefully detailed to Garibaldi llogan,
private detective, by a little old woman in a black
bonnet and other fittings of woe. The little old
woman looked trustfully at Hogan through her gold-
rimmed glasses, for Hogan seemed big and strong,
and his head continued on into his collar in a
manner most pleasing to witness. Hogan did not
speak ; it was not his custom to speak immediately
after the facts of a case had been dropped into him;
lie liked to melt things down in his brain-crucible
and present at his leisure the minted coin of thought.
It was long—perhaps half an hour before he
opened his lips. Then it was only to ask, in a deep,
sad voice like the far-off baying of bloodhouncs;
“How was the body Iving when you discovered it?
The old lady opened her face, deftly removed her
teeth with one sweeping gesture, and screamed shrilly
like a parrot.
“Calm yourself!” boomed the Great Detective in
his grandest manner. “Calm yourself and tell
“There wasn’t any body!” shrieked the old lady,
replacing her teeth. “I never said anything about a
Garibaldi rose from his chair. “Just what I
feared!” he muttered. Then, to the amazed old
woman: “There is more in this than I thought. \Ve
must act at once. Leave it in my hands. He
opened the door and bowed in his courteous, old-
world way. The old lady moved out reluctantly. On
the threshold she turned and remarked in a warning
voice: “There wasn’t any body, mind!”
“No body was found!” replied Hogan swiftly, and
watched her descend the stairs. When he was quite
satisfied she had gone, he closed the door carefully
and turned to me —the humble narrator of this terri-
ble story. “You have heard the facts. W hat do you
make of it?”
“Nothing, my dear Hogan—absolutely nothing!
He looked at me quizzically. “You really mean to
say”
“I do! It’s just a foolish jumble to me.
“Extraordinary! Why, it's as plain as day!”
“What is?”
[to be continued.]
I had hardly finished reading the first in-
stalment of the serial when Blitherton him-
self arrived and dropped on the sofa. He
nodded at my copy of Slush of the Earth.
“What d’ye think of it?”
“It’s good as far as it goes.”
“Yes, it doesn’t seem too bad to me. How
does Garibaldi Hogan strike you—think he’s
an arresting sort of figure?” _
“Yes, he looks a likely one.”
Blitherton didn’t seem to be very elated.
“I wish I knew what was going to happen
next.” he sighed.
“Good Lord ! You don’t mean to say your
surprise system has broken down already? ’
That seemed to nettle him. “Oh, no, of
course not! But. to tell you the honest
truth, I feel a bit dull to-day, and old
Boomer has just told me he must have next
week’s ‘copy’ early. I had nothing by me, and
didn’t feel up to writing on to the first
chapter, so I gave him this. It’s a bit of
an old story I never finished, with a sen-
tence or two added. As I have to start
a second chapter in the second issue it
seems to go well enough. Just run your eye
over a bit of it, will you? I’d like to know
what you think of it.”
I had to oblige him by sampling it, so I
took the “copy” and started to read: —
THE MISSING BODY.
(By Horatio Blitherton,)
Chapter 11.
“A letter for you, Missus,” said the dirty-faced and.
half-witted maid, opening the dining-room door with-
out warning and causing the Hon. Mrs. Decree to
start violently from her lover’s side.
Flushed and furious, the girl’s mistress snatched
the note from the girl’s grimy hand, while Mr. Nisi,
secretary to the Japanese Ambassador, caught up a
Bradshaw’s Guide and made a feeble pretence ol
looking through it.”
“Marion!” said Mrs. Decree angrily, “in future
please remember to knock before you enter. Do you
hear f”
“ ’o\v was I ter know you was smoogin’l” shrilled
the maid.
“You are mistaken, Marion -r-eompletely mistaken!
When you opened the door just now you saw nothing!
If anyone asks you anything you know nothing! You
won't lose anything by it! That will do.”
As the door closed Nisi threw the Bradshaw down
on the table, and taking his smiling mistress in his
arms started again to tell her the arrangements he
had made for their flight. The letter lay unheeded on
the floor amidst a pile of unopened mail matter.
And meanwhile, many miles away, in a dismal coun-
try house which hadn’t been painted for years and
was surrounded by a sombre pine forest, a little bald
man sat in his shirt-sleeves writing letter after letter
at high speed, and throwing them into a basket
marked "Post.” But the most remarkable thing was
that all the letters were for hair-restorer.
Let us now get back to the house of the clandes-
tine lovers. The dirty-faced maid went slowly down-
stairs giggling to herself and saying: “Wouldn't th’
boss go orf if he knoo!”
As she turned to go towards the kitchen the front-
door bell rang sharply. The maid gave a startled
jump and scampered excitedly to see what it was.
She loved excitement even if it didn’t immediately
concern her.
When the door swung open a perspiring postman
was revealed. The practised eye of Garibaldi Hogan
would have seen at once that here was a bigoted
atheist with a criminal history and corns. But,
alas! Garibaldi Hogan was not present. The maid
saw only a postman.
“The usual one for the Missus,” sighed the man of
letters, thrusting an envelope at the girl. “What do
you think of this weather?”
The half-witted maid was instantly on her guard.
Snatching the letter from him she retorted: “Look
’ere! ! know nothin'—but I’m not goin’ ter lose
anythin’ by it!”
The door slammed. The postman tore an old
locket from his breast pocket and devoured the face
within with hungry eyes. “What did she mean by
that?” he chattered. “Who has paid her to know
nothing?” He replaced the locket in his pocket with
a guilty glance and went hobbling down file path like
a man in a panic.
In the hall the maid turned the letter over in her
hands. “Another o’ these,” she sighed. “One comes
be every post. I wonder wot’s in ’em, an’ w’y she
never answers ’em?” Then she plodded upstairs.
Having got that far, I passed tlm manu-
script back to the gifted author, “llow did
Boomer receive that lot?”
“Well, to be honest, he didn’t seem to be
too pleased. First of all, he looked up the
file and showed me that the first instalment
ended with an unanswered question. (I
haven’t thought of an answer to that ques-
tion yet, by the way. If you think of a
likely one you might let me know, like a
good chap.) When I'd got him off that he
wanted to know what connection the people
in this lot had with the characters in the
first instalment, and a hell of a lot of other
things. I had to tell him to leave it to me,
as I was writing the thing. I’m afraid the
old fool has no confidence in my work. Why,
he even seemed to be impatient about the
murder —said the best thrillers always got
the murder in early.”
“Have you thought out the murder vet?”
“No, I haven't! I’d be awfully obliged if
you could give me any points about the
murder. In fact, old chap, I’d be glad of
am/ hints you could give me!”
He left shortly afterwards, and I saw and
heard no more of him for a week. Then
arrived a scared, speechless boy with a note
written in a shaky hand. It was from
Blitherton: —-
My Dear Kodak, —
I’ve been on the scoot, and am here without a
penny. Serial’s been worrying me frightfully, and
Boomer’s singing out for the third instalment which,
he insists, must have some coherency in it. l’lease
give the bearer half a sov. for me and answer the
following questions like a good fellow. (P.S.— My
head’s splitting, but I must get the job done.)
(1) What was “as plain as day” to Hogan in first
instalment? I can’t think of anything worth a
curse. , ■
(2) Do you think the little man who ran tor the
hair-restorer in first chapter would make a good
murderer? If so, whom could be murder?
(3) What relation to the hair-restorer man was the
old ladv who took out her teeth to scream at
Garibaldi Hogan? She must have some interest
in him. ,
(4) Do you think I was wise to make the little hair-
restorer man the letter-writer of Part 2.
BACK NUMBERS.
NORA (very soulful): ‘“A thing of beauty is
a joy for ever.’’ ”
JEAN (very practical): “ Oh, well, please
yourself. But I’M not so keen on last
season's hats."
(3) Can you suggest a reason for him writing letters
for hair-restorer to Mrs. Decree, and for Mrs. D.
leaving them unopened?
(6) If she did so, she must have known what hidden
significance was in them. IVhat was in them?
(7) Why was the postman terrified at what the dirty-
faced maid said?
Please answer these at once,, and I will be able to
get on with the third instalment. Will send some


more urgent queries this afternoon. (P.S.— Slake it
£2 if you can.)
Yours hastily, H. Blithliiuox.
I put a 10s. note iu an envelope and
wrote: —
Dear Blithekton,
I am very sorry, but I’ve got my own living to
make. Try and worry those points out yourself.
Enclosing 10s.
Yours, Kodak.
The scared lad took my answer and threw
himself down the stairs at top speed. The
need for extreme haste had evidently been
impressed on him by my poor misguided
friend. But he was back inside an hour.
“Ole Boomer’s waitin’ for ’is ‘copy,’ sir,”
he said. “’E wants to know when you can
let ’im ’ave it?”
“Well, what’s that to do with me? Mr.
Blitherton is writing that story!”
He shook his head doggedly. “Mr. Blither-
ton tole ole Boomer you’d send th’ third
’stalment along. Mr. Blitherton jus’ give
me this for you.’’
I took the spidery despatch and read it: —
Godssake send something to Boomer! I’m too
drunk. Told him you’d do it this week.— lT.B.
And then the telephone bell went. I lifted
the receiver off the hook and an angry little
ant-like voice buzzed at me: “That Mr.
Kodak ?”
“Yes, speaking.”
“When are you going to let me have the
next instalment of that story? I don’t want
to be humbugged about any longer!”
“Who is speaking?”
“It’s Mr. Boomer speaking ! When am I
to expect that ‘copy’?”
“But, hang it! Isn’t Mr. Blitherton sup-
plying you with the ‘copy’?”
“No, he isn’t. And you know very well
that it is your chapter now. Mr. Blitherton
has explained to me that you are writing
alternate chapters. It is up to you to pull
yourself together and supply this ‘copy.’ Mr.
Blitherton is suffering tortures from neuri-
tis in the head and cannot shoulder any
more of your work No ! I wmn’t listen to
any more excuses! You let me have that
‘copy’ before dinner, or there will be serious
trouble!” The infernal machine rang in my
ear.
I hung up the receiver with a crash and
turned to the waiting boy to curse him for
pursuing me with Blitherton’s notes. But I
hesitated when I noticed what was protrud-
ing from his pocket—a folded Deadwood
Dick. “Give me that book you’ve got in
your pocket,” I said and held out my hand.
The fool clapped his hand over his prize
and drew back mumbling.
“Give it to me!” I shouted.
He handed it over.
I unrolled the thing and found the title
was “The Murder in Haunted Gulch.” The
atmosphere was very Wild West, but there
were three corpses in the first paragraph and
some lurking avenger called “Old Sleuth”
was fairly on the trail of the murderers in
the second. “This will do,” I said, and,
despite the youth’s protests, I tore out the
first five pages, altered the name of Old
Sleuth to Garibaldi Hogan wherever it
appeared, and. sent the rubbish down to the
typiste on the second floor with instructions
to make it a rush job. She sent the typed
THE CHOIR RENDERS THE ANTHEM.
COUSIN SILAS: “Turty piece of music, edden ’s. Billy?”
COUSIN BILLY : “Not bad. Wha's name av un?”
COUSIN SILAS: “Dear dear, some people do shore their ignorance; why, 'e's the ‘Lost
Chord ’ from ‘The Messiah,’ to be sure.”
MS. _ and the printed “copy” back to me
within half an hour. I restored the torn
pages to the owner, gave him a shilling and
the MS. in an addressed envelope, and sent
him off to Boomer at the Slush of the
Earth office.
Some twenty minutes after my messenger
and Blitherton’s had gone I was called up
on the 'phone by Boomer. He was very
bitter about the number of new characters I
had introduced into the story, and wanted
to know why Garibaldi Hogan had gone to
the Rockies. I told him that I was trying
to fill his demand for movement and cornses.
‘‘You have it to us,” I advised. “We know
what we’re doing!”
“I hope you do!” he screamed at the
other end of the town. I rang him off, and
there was a heavenly peace for three days.
Blitherton himself supplied the next diver*
sion. The miserable shirker hadn’t the
nerve to come and say what was in his
besotted mind —he sat afar off in some
obscure lodging and wrote it like a coward
Dear Kodak, —What sort of a mess have you made
of my serial! I could hardly believe my eyes when
I got this week’s Slush and saw what you had done.
What made you take Garibaldi Hogan to America
and pile up a lot more mystery for me to explain?
I had the thing decently planned in my mind, and
now you’ve gone and ruined it. 1 have been dread-
fully ill, and don’t know what I am to do next.
(P.S. —Why didn’t you answer those questions 1
sent you instead of returning them? If you’ve got
a spare half-sovereign about you I could make good
use of it.) —H. Blitherton.
I made my reply as brief as possible. It
ran:—
Dear Blitherton, —I have tried to keep your rotten
serial going for you by stealing and revising part of
a very decently-written Deadwood Dick I got from
your messenger. If you have any sense you will get
hold of the rest of the book and adapt it. I think
you will do better that way than by fooling about
yourself. I doubt whether you could write a decent
detective story sober; you certainly can’t do it
drunk. (P.S. —Sorry, but I’m very short of cash
just now). — Kodak.
Of course, I couldn’t get rid of a limpet
like Blitherton as easily as all that. He
had me on the ’phone before the day was
out. I listened to him with what patience
I could muster: “Look here, you’ve made a
horrible hash of this thing of mine ; but I
will do my best with it if you will let me
have the rest of that book. What was the
name of the thing?”
“That messenger of yours has it. It’s
called ‘The Murder in Haunted Gulch.’ ”
I heard him swear terribly. “Good God !
Do you mean to say you didn’t keep the
book ?”
“No, I didn’t! Haven’t I just told you
your messenger owned it?”
“Yes.” he howled. “But he’s gone to the
war! What the h—l am I to do now?”
“Do! Why, sit down and write, of
course!”
“But I can’t write that stuff! There
wouldn’t have been any necessity to write it
if you had had sense enough to keep the
book !”
“Look here, Blitherton ! Are you writing
a serial or are you stealing one?”
“Well, that’s pretty rich coming from
you ! I din’t start the stealing, you know !”
“Why, did you expect me to ivrite your
rotten instalment?”
“That’s what most mates would have
done!”
“Well, you ought to know that I haven't
got the time to do your work as well as my
own. Old Boomer tackled me for the stuff
just when I was choked up. and I only kept
him going for your sake. Now you take my
advice and keep sober, and you’ll be all
right. Good-bye.” I rang him off sharply
and thought I had thrown him off for good,
Blitherton’s hard-working little sister had
the next shift. She w’aited on me personallv
and told me with tears in her eyes that’
Horry was drinking again, although" she had
warned him not to. She wouldn’t have
troubled me only Mr. Boomer, of the Slush
of the Earth, had been sending for the
next instalment of Garibaldi Hogan, and she
didn’t know what to do. Poor Horry had
locked himself in his room, and kept on
repeating that I was to supply the next
chapter. There was nothing else for it. I
asked her to go and pacify Boomer while I
ran up the next chapter of Garibaldi.
I sent a boy odt for ah assortment of
Deadwoods. made a selection, and proceeded
as before, merely altering the name of the
inevitable detective to Garibaldi tlogam
A JAZZ INTERLUDE.
SHE: “I washed my hair to-day , and now it’s simply awful”
HE: “Oh, no, it's not —never tasted letter in my life!”
Then I sent the typed MS. to Boomer. It
enraged him so much that lie had to see me
personally about it.
lie burst into my office looking like an
enraged plum pudding. Slamming the MS.
down on the table, he began without any in-
troduction or preamble : “ Look here ! Do
you know ’ow many characters you got in
this damn thing?”
“I couldn’t tell you offhand, Mr. Boomer.”
“I thort not! Would you be surprised if
I was to tell you there’s a hundred an’
seventy-three principal characters?”
“Yes, that’s about it. It lends interest to
a story to have a lot of characters.”
“Maybe it does. But I’m damned if I
can foller the thing, an’ I’ve read every word
of it! What does this Garibaldi Hogan shift
round for? He hasn’t unravelled anything
yet. What about that little man that ran to
the Sydney G.P.O. in the first chapter?
What’s happened to him?”
“Oh, he’ll reappear later on!”
“Then there’s that old lady that took oUt
her teeth to scream at Hogan—l been gettin’
letters about her!”
“There you are, you see! Your readers
have become so interested that”
“Oh, they’re not those sort of letters!
Don’t you run away with that ideer ! My
readers say she’s a rotten character—too
comic for a detective story—want to know
why she’s there at all.”
“An author can’t please everybody, Mr.
Boomer!”
“P’raps he carn’t! But if he’s got any
gumption lie can let intelligent people know
what’s he driving at. I tell you what, I’m
damn sorry I ever started this serial without
readin’ it right through first. But I was
goin’ on Mr. Blitherton’s name. Now if he’d
only been able to keep well he wouldn’t have
had, to farm it out to you. Course I know
you,re only a young writer, an’ all that, an’
you ve done your best. But you won’t mind
me sayin’ that you’ve made a horrible mess
of this job.”
If 1 said nothing it was for the sake of
Blitherton’s pathetic little sister.
® oomer started buzzing again.
• u inclined to get the whole thing fin-
ished up by a l-eaLgood man; but I’ll give
you one more chance! Now if you get busy
and write me an outline of the next seven in-
stalments, showin’ the development of the
plot, an all that, I’ll have it looked over and
tell you if it’ll spit. To tell you the truth, I
Mould take it right out of your ’ands now
only I have a great respec’ for Mr. Blither-
ton, an don’t want to worry him when he’s
so sick. 111 print this stuff I got here as it
stands, an’ risk it comm’ out right; but you
hurry up an’ let me have that outline" by
ter-morrer. Good-day.”
For twenty-four hours I tried to forget
Garibaldi Hogan. I was succeeding fairly
well when I got a frenzied note from Blither-
ton s sister. Blitherton had stolen out of his
room and fled to parts unknown, leaving an
unaddressed note which liis sister thought
could only be meant for me:—
~ Good-bye all. Can’t stand it any more. That
devil Garibaldi has been grinning at me for two
days and drags-ing bodies round the room asking
me to explain them.
There was a pencilled footnote in feminine
handwriting:—
My poor Horry seems to have had something on
111® ™ lnd - 1 d° hope he doesn’t come to any harm.
Would you mind explaining to Mr. Boomer?
And just about then my inspiration ran
out. In my despair I was idly fingering a
copy Of Poe*s “Pales of Mystery and Imagi-
nation’ 1 with feionioiig intent wheil a most
insulting noth was handed me by special
messenger. It was from Boomer, and was
td the effect that his most junior office bdy
had just informed him that he could show
hint a Deadwdod Dick, part df which exactly
duplicated One bf the instalments supplied
by me.
I saw my way of escape at once. Seizing
a pad I scribbled as follows:
pear Boomer, —Get hold of that Deadwood at once
and print the rest of it. Pay the boy any price for
it; it is a better story than Blitherton or I could
ever supply.—Yours faithfully, K.
Boomer was an editor in a tight place;
he took my advice, and the serial was such
a success that the advertising rates for
Slush of I’HE Earth are now three times
what they were before Garibaldi Hogan was
invented. Blitherton returned Shamefacedly
some time afterwards and commenced to
trade in a feeble, fitful way on the reputa-
tion I had made for him with the Head-
wood ; but his kindest ‘critics regretfully
admit that he has never done anything to
equal Hogan. It is now available in a
three-and-sixpeniiy library edition, and I re-
cently overheard a Supreme Court judge tell
a very expensive legal friend it was 'one of
the best bits of holiday reading matter he
had struck.
KODAK,
“ Follow ! Follow !”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
OFT, I had gone a-markoting
Upon an April day;
The mists lay low above the land*
The roads were long and grey ;
But high upon the sunny hill
The oaks swayed to the soft wind’s will —
How could I go to market town
When from their boughs all golden-brown
A thrush sang “Follow! Follow!”
And “Follow! Follow!” loud and sweet
He called and carolled still,
Until I set my burden down
And climbed the windy hill.
So golden were the rustling trees,
So blue the flecks of sky ■
Between the boughs, I lingered there
And could not hasten by;
Till sudden from the meadow-grass
A lark sprang up to see me pass,
And in a flight of ecstasy
Soared swift aloft to show to me
The sunlit track to Heaven.
But “Follow!' Follow!” sang the wind
Among the banded sheaves,
And tossed against my lifted face
A shower of russet leaves.
All through the radiant autumn day
I roamed, a vagrant free,
And none there was to bid me turn,
Or point the road to me;
The young moon came, so silver-white,
The slender queen of all the night,
As lightly as a babe to rest
She sank into the starlit west
And left me in the darkness.
"Oh, follow! Follow!” sang the stars,
From out the sparkling dome,
But I had turned reluctant feet
Upon the long road home.
But oh, my heart, there are three things
That bend my curbed will.
The little silver, sickle moon,
The oaks upon the hill.
A song-bird in the morn a-wing—
How can I stay when they will sing
A song of “Follow! Follow”?
maoriland.
LILLA GORMHUILLE MCKAY .


THE ELOPEMENT.


Vows.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHEN greying hairs shall frost your
brow
And care your features line,
’Twill make to me, who love you now,
Your beauty more divine;
New years may give another light,
But that is how I feel to-night!
Dear, I will swear you anything
That brings a pleasant flush
Upon the cheeks whose praise I sing;
And I in no-wise blush
That in some far to-morrow’s view
The thing I swear may not be true.
For, sweetheart, life’s a crucible,
And we ourselves must change ;
In some ten years I cannot tell
But we may both be strange
To what we are. I swear for me,
Not for the stranger I may be.
’Tis what I feel for you I swear;
And this I ask of you
In present loyalty to share
My vows, and think them true :
My love no warmer strength could win
Had I an age to love you in !
Here, where the light shines on the wine
The present lives —is ours !
So I shall swear these vows of mine
That gladden pleasant hours.
Despite all change, they must be right,
For they are what I feel to-night!
N.S.W.
HAMER.
An Error and a Curate.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE curate was the worse for the mul-
berry wine. He swayed unsteadily
and wondered.
A golden moon looked over the top of the
villa where the silhouette of a cat stalked
across the sky. Bacchus had thrust a tiny
mulberry-leaf torch into the heap of dust
which was the remains of romance in the
curate’s heart. The flames crackled and sug-
gested that it would be fun to see who lived
within, and if Adventure would answer the
doorbell. The fat moon grinned like a fool.
With his flat hat cocked at an indecorous
angle, the black shadow swayed up the
garden path and set the door-bell ringing.
A. little dark woman with the eyes of a
bird answered. Thb curate had a dim idea
that she might hop on to the garden fence
and fly away.
“Avis, a bird, my good lady,” lie said, with
unction.
The sharp eyes watched him with sus-
picion.
“Do you want anything?” their owner
asked.
“No, madam, no ; just my fun again,” mur-
mured her visitor, and doffed his flat hat with
a flourish.
“You’re drunk, that’s what’s the matter
with yon,” She announced and closed the
door in his face.
There had been an adventure! As he
swayed down the path the curate began to
consider whether, perhaps, he was not just a
little intoxicated. If so, it was_ a wicked
WHERE LOVE GETS “WET.”
PEGGY : “We were engaged a year. I thought my love was eternal; it didn't
seeing him once in the surf.”
BETTY ( philosophically ): “It often happens here that love which appears to wear well
won't wash.”
tiling —a most daringly wicked thing.
His thoughts were interrupted by a big
form which loomed over him at the garden
gate. It laid two heavy hands on his
shoulders.
“Excuse me, sir. but do you see anything
strange about me?” asked the curate with a
terrible desire to hear the worst.
“P’or li’le man in funny hat.” breathed
the bulk. “Don’t run ’way, li’le man;
nothing strange ’bout you being here. Come
inside an’ talk it over. Quite all right, li’le
chap.”
The big man found the key vaguely, and
opened the door with the abstracted air of a
thinker. The bird-woman hopped out from
the front room.
“Home at last, John, and as bad as ever,”
she remarked. Then her eye took in the
curate. “And that dreadful little man with
you !”
The big man turned to the curate sadly.
“Like that —ugh!” he exclaimed. “But
don’t you fret, li’le man. Make it up soon—
I know ’em. Don’t cry, li’le man.”
DETERMINING THE GENUS.
“ I've offered him everything on the maynoo — grills, roasts, sweets, and ”
Did you try him with birdseed ?”
He led them into the room and sought the
decanter. Birds, mulberries and doubts were
holding high revels in the curate’s brain. He
felt that all was not right and everything
was surprisingly misty. The only tangible
thing was the big man, and he enveloped and
commanded the universe. It was a terrible
draught which he gulped from the glass, and
the birds sang louder and the mulberries
danced. Also, the big man grew as though
he were a genie emerging from a bottle. The
curate hated bottles.
“Now, John, for Heaven’s sake be reason-
able,” the bird-woman was chirruping. “Send
this man away and go to bed. He appears to
be a clergyman of some sort, but lie’s very
evidently as drunk as you are.”
A large white hand waved and the argu-
ment was brushed away.
“M’ dear, he’s drunk on my whisky—and
no. offence—and you know what a nice li’le
man he is. Sit down near Sybil on the
couch, li’le man.”
The curate’s legs appeared to be walking
away from him, and he hailed the couch as a
haven. It was all very strange, but the large
person was probably quite right. It was not
a point worthy of a gentleman's attention.
“No ill-will ’t all,” John protested graci-
ously. “Not a scrap in the ’ole world. Silly
li’le detectives told me about ypiu coming
here. Known all along. No harm done.
We’ll start proceedings right away, and
you’ll be able to marry in six months.”
The curate's eyes were damp with affec-
tion, but he was puzzled.
“My dear friend, the prospect of occasion-
ing—of—er—what was I up to? Of occa-
sioning you any trouble pains me. These
trials you speak of are hard to bear.”
“Different thing altogether,” said his host
firmly. “No trial—only proceedings. Nice
thin li’le co-re. She’s good wife, Sybil- -
bless y’ both.”
The bird-woman had been listening eager-
ly, and a shadow of fear looked through her
eyes. She grasped the arm of the couch and
spoke with a hard ring in her voice.
“Listen to me, John,” she said. “You’re
drunk, and you don’t know what you are
saying. I am going next door for fifteen
minutes. Unless this man has gone and you
are in bed when I come back I shall send for
the police. We will talk things over in the
morning.”
The vast hand waved expressively as she
closed the door behind her.
“ ’Nactress, bor’ nactress,” said John.
The curate noddeu drowsily. The birds
were singing lullabies. lie would have :.o
leave his affairs in the hands of this mighty
soul.
“You’re 'nactress, too,” he
was assured. “Never know —
never—to —look at you—no
ill-will —none. I’ll have li’le flat Oxford
Chambers. Pity you want to get married.
Silly. If you weren’t set on it I’d say be
sensible and come with me. Far better. Ha,
ha ! But it’s no use talking that way to you
li’le chaps.”
'Hot blood, light head,” agreed the curate,
“No harm done.”
“That’s all fixed then. Mustn’t worry po’r
li’le wife. I must get you off now. No
trouble, I hope?”
“Delighted, too happy,” smiled the guest.
The vast man went to take his hat, which
was resting on the top of the piano, but it
fell down into the corner behind the instru-
ment. He moved round to pick it up, but
changed his mind, and, murmuring “Too
bad, too bad,” bustled the curate out of the
house.
Then he laughed, and the little man
laughed for company’s sake and they
tumbled down to the gate.
Must apologise, ol' man, a.ll a mistake,”
said the/,immense shadow. “Absolutely an
error. All my fault. Remember now the
man. I thought you must be has red hair.
They told me.”
“Yes, it is a pity you went to all this
trouble. Regrets, my dear sir, regrets,”
sighed the curate.
Ao harm done at all— must come along
to flat in Oxford Chambers.”
“No, no. Cambridge—the dear old light
blue, begged the curate.
Light blue will do very well. Tell ’em
must have it dark blue,” said the big man.
lie kissed the curate on the brow, kindly.
u go now, li’le man,” he apologised.
‘Just remembered, very important. I saw
po’r li’le fat man with red hair sitting
behind the piano.”
DALE COLLINS.
Spiky.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
OLD Miss Alban stood unsteadily in
Cohen's shop. With a trembling claw
she paid the Bs. interest on her ring, a
six-monthly transaction nearly 12 years old.
Mr. Cohen had long hated to take the money ;
the original loan had been paid in full
several fold. But—business is business: a
man can’t make exceptions.
In the glare of Bourke-street Miss Alban
saw dimly that red-headed Stott boy who
was called Spiky smoking a straw and lean-
ing on a convenient post. lie stared at her
with no sign of recognition, for all that she
was his mother’s aunt; Spiky had no time
for relations, least of all female relations.
Similarly they, male and female, had no time
for Spiky.
Every half-year Miss Alban made the
journey from her two-roomed cottage in
Bland-street to Bourke-street; every half-
year, in the heat and the cold, as she'tottered
back, the same thoughts came with her. Ber-
nard had given her the ring many, many
years ago, and Bernard had a soft voice and
a strong arm. But his ship went down and
he with it; and in the 40 years between no
other voice was as soft, no other arm as
strong, and only his ring was left of him.
Through long years of “service” and long
years of charing Miss Alban had kept it;
in good times and bad times, in times of
plenty and times of hunger she had kept it
as jealously and stubbornly as if it w T ere, her
heart; which it was.
In the grey picture of the years some high
lights shone here and there ; not many, but
some. Young Maggie’s marriage was one.
It lasted six months as a very high light, but
fell into deep shadow at the end of that time,
when Maggie’s man. Big Stott, was sent up
for two years. It gleamed uncertainly again
when Maggie’s boy, who came to be called
Spiky, was born; but the need of pawning
Bernard’s ring for the chemist and the
clothes and Maggie’s stubborn illness cast
that, too, into shadow which had not lifted
since. His ring— his ring; would she ever
see it again?
Coaly Mimbles came out of Cohen’s shop
in a businesslike manner; not anxious or
worried, but as a man with weighty affairs
on his mind.
“ ’Ullo,” said Spiky, “bin poppin’ the
plate?”
“Got a job ’ere,” Coaly said, ignoring the
impertinence, ’sistant to Mr. Colien. Can’t
stop; me dinner hour’s only three-quarters.”
“Lumme!”
Spiky’s mind was shocked into unusual
surprise, as he looked after Coaly 'hurrying
down Bourke-street in the sun. He caught
him at Cathedral-street, wrenched his cap off
his head and threw it away, in order to
leave his brain cool and free to answer
questions. Coaly withstood the impact
patiently: he knew Spiky.
“ ’Ow long yer bin rouseabout at
Nosey’s?”
“Me second day.”
“Wot’s it like?”
“Mot too bad. Tyin’ up parcels an’ cleanin’
the shop an’ that.”
“Wotcher get?”
“Nine. Twelve an’ six when I’m worth it.”
Spiky grunted. “Trust Nosey to skin the
award.”
“Nosey’s all right. Bin jawin’ to Mother
Nosey about Miss Alban, who came in
’smornin’; ’ow ’e’d like to give ’er back ’er
ring, an’ that. I don’t say ’e’d do it; but
’e gassed about it, an’ that’s suffin’.”
Coaly was distressed at this point by the
sight of Spiky’s face trying to assume the
expression of a charitable saint—a very diffi-
cult task for Spiky’s face. Coaly looked
up for the cause of the exercises, and saw
his brother Clifford, beloved of Spiky’s soul,
crossing the road. Cliff was his usual weary,
well-dressed self; at the first glance, out of
place in Bourke-street; at the second he
looked the spirit of the lhalf-drowned, fight-
ing ’Loo. He had done good “business” in
Adelaide and was spending the boodle in
Sydney while he was free to do so. Cliff’s
hard face softened when he saw Spiky. Big
Stott had been a disappointing pupil of his.
and Cliff’ was sorry ; not only by reason of
the disappointment, but —oh,' well, in general.
“ ’Ullo, boy,” he said.
Spiky blushed the color of his hair and
grinned. “ ’Ullo,” he said.
Under cover of the encounter Coaly
slipped unnoticed away, to spend as well as
he could what was left of his three-quarters
dinner-hour.
“’Ow’s yer dad? Is ’e ’ome?”
“Yes; ’e come ’ome a month ago. ’E’s all
right; got a job cartin’ in Darlin’hurst.”
Spiky sighed. “Coaly’s got a job, too, at
Nosey’s.”
Cliff knew that; there was occasional busi-
ness between Cohen and Cliff.
“Want a job, boy?”
“Yes.” Spiky confessed the weakness
sullenly.
“Why?” Jobs are not, in general, wanted
in the ’Loo.
“I dunno. It’s dull when dad’s away, an’
worse when ’e’s ’ome. Nuffin’ ’appens all
the time, ’cept kickin’ about. In a job, like
wot Coaly’s got, I sh’d ’ear suffin’, an’ not
Mum an’ Dad rowin’ all day, or the lodger
rowin’.” Spiky’s eyes looked up ashamed into
HEROISM.
“If there's anything in a bloke at all the sea
will bring it out of ’im.”
“That's right. 'Specially on a coaster."
Cliff’s face; it was a hard job to get his
meaning out. “Ole Miss Alban was in
Coaly’s shop to-day, an’ Nosey was talkin’
about ’er an’ ’er ring—an’ Coaly says ’e’s
all right.” His meaning evaded Spiky him-
self at this point. “I know it ain’t much to
’appen, but it’s suffin’ —is ain’t rowin’ an’
kickin’ about an’ that.”
At Miss Alban’s name Cliff became
thoughtful. He knew the story of the
pawned ring—had heard' it often at concert-
pitch from Maggie’s lips.
“What did Cohen say about the ole girl's
ring to Coaly?”
“Nuflin’. Jawin’ to Mother Nosey, an’
Coaly ’eard ’em. Said ’e wanted to give it
back.” Spiky was in his shell again, watch-
ful and sullen.
The Adelaide business had been very good,
rounded off with a neat get-away. All the
get-aways looked like that, of course; not
many of them had stood the test of time, but
this last one still looked good. He gave
Spiky a Shilling, told him to come to Cathe-
dral-street that evening, and went back to
call on Cohen.
Cohen came out of the back room with his
jaws still working. His eyes narrowed and
became expressionless when he saw Mimbles.
He glanced at the door, and beckond his
visitor into the pledge booth.
“Well, Cliff?” he said, non-committally.
“Why didn’t you give me a ring instead of
walkin’ into the shop in broad daylight?”
“It ain’t real business this time, Cohen,”
said Cliff. “ ’Ow much did yer lend old
Miss Alban on ’er ring?”
“Four pounds,” Cohen said in surprise.
“She paid the interest this mornin’; that’s
’ow I remember the amount. Why?”
Cliff put four £1 notes on the counter.
“Any interest for one day?” he said,
Cohen closed the door of the back-room
and came back.
“When can you bring the ticket?” he said,
as he put the ring on the counter.
“Termorrer.”
* * * *
A knock on Miss Alban’s door interrupted
her lengthy preparations for bed. Spiky
turned the handle and went in.
“Cliff sent yer this, but ’e said it was
from me, an’ where’s the ticket?” he said.
Sneechless with contempt, Spiky saw Miss
Alban open the parcel and fade into mum-
bling, difficult tears; saw her kiss the ring
and hide it in the bosom of her dress, as she
gave him the ticket.
“He took it away an’ he brought it back.”
Miss Alban muttered, crooning over the gift;
“he took it away from me an’ he brought it
back to me.”
FRANCIS BRIEN.


MIDDLE O' TH' NIGHT
FOR THE BULLETIN
A. omeless d is ovwlm darn Tff 1 roaa someujere,
if? thunders barrel/ {ar away*
s not* a soul awake, but" *tl7ers a creakin’ on Hi' sTair
sounds like someone .... w'gn uoill it" be clay ?
lii -<V middle o' *tV mjjih
(Coin 1 on one at" iru^hT’)
IV ITme makes yer that* ‘things'll neuer uoork out* n^jrfP
Mo matter v0o4" yer do .er ‘try' er Say
TV ram is jesT b^gtrmin 1 ,
(0 curse Il7ad" 'ome less des|?a*rir7 v
"Woo --00-- 'f' 1 )
tJovA) vT Comes darn ir\ er deUge.
tWat’ll Surely nevier stbf?
Uni'll euery' bloomin' tites u)asbed
©■ft it? 1 roo{
\ x li's it?’ middle o' it?' mghT—
Lor! I loaves each rygjiT
ffer BiH 'as y i2> money an 1
'e’s bound ter come bme
An' Bill *as & fooT more
like a 'oo|
id' rain Is corruY? -steady an* is 'ou)lio sfi|
(W if sTo)», Til an’ break its neck !J
'E won't be ojTmock longer—Gawd’- 1 W Y|||W
•ftey sa.'d I didn't o^hr, I necollec'
Its iVr' middle o' tk' / y /f/h,
(Blar*T it? 1 middle o' tV //^,
Its near on two o'clock now ,an' 'e -asnt come in tgjT/
jZ^n 1 gj'en 'e does 1 knows wot" to -ex\>ec •
Victoria .
E.M.H.


A Romance of Dimples, Pork, and
Paper Collars.
[FOR THE BULLETIN..]
A LONELY island in the midmost sea,
Two soft brown damsels pacing to
and fro,
A Persian cat reclining ’neatli a tree,
A dozen ripe bananas in a row,
A box of paper collars, clear blue sky,
A pair of evening slippers, Jones and I.
i his was the scene. A tragic purpose
frowned
On all except the cat that sunny day.
Jones, like myself, avoided being drowned
By climbing shoreward through the angry
spray— '
But that occurred last week,. I should
explain,
And swift events since then had brought us
pain.
The population of this pleasant isle,
Which in its coral stood twelve yards by
seven,
Consisted only of a double smile
That worked long shifts beneath a breath-
less heaven;
The cat came with us from the sinking
ship—■
A hairy beast with an unshaven lip.
Loola and Toona were the ladies’ names.
The cat had been baptised Evangeline.
She wore more clothing than the other
dames;
But that was nothing, for the isle was green
And in its simple wealth of tropic shade
\v as small attention to the fashions paid.
Yet life was complex here as at a court,
And things were growing very mixed indeed.
Alone, of all, the cat remained a sport,
Lifted a happy tail and paid no heed
Except around eight legs to softly purr,
b or, brown or white, we all were fond of her.
T».is was the state of our affairs that day:
My young affections were on Toona set,
While Toona thought that Jones was far
away
The very nicest man that she had met;
And Loola, whom Jones loved with all his
heart,
as wooing me with every soft brown art.
And here the paper collars entered in.
These had I given Toona when I spied
Them floating shoreward, pale as midnight
sin,
Upon the bosom of the flowing tide.
The evening slippers Jones had somewhere
found
And with their soft pink satin Loola
crowned.
He crowned her with them, for the fact
was clear
She could not get the things upon her feet.
So daintily they drooped o’er either ear
To save her throbbing temples from the
heat.
But Loola wanted collars white and free
To wear about her throat for love of me.
The argument was very fierce and long.
We ate the twelve bananas as we talked;
While through the happy shade, erect and
strong,
Evangeline a sportive lizard stalked.
There were no more bananas on the tree,
So things were looking blue for Jones and
me.
NEXT BEST.
HIM: “Give us one a' your curls, Blanche
Maud!”
HER: “ Couldn’t , Percy Clarence; but I’ll
wear it for you.”
l ie talk went on until the sun had set.
Ihe dusky maidens almost came to blows.
I tried to tell them that thev should not
fret;
Things might be worse, as thev could well
suppose—•
In fact, things had got worse. Our island
seat
TV as just then void of anything to eat.
But love disdained my simple view of life
And jealousy was green in either eve.
The island hold a plenitude of wife,'
Despite the fact that four of us must die.
I really envied our Evangeline
Her chance of supper from the spreading
green.
The stars came out and twinkled overhead.
The moon arose and shone with all her
might.
I said : “The time 1 ’ome to go to bed.
Let us postpone thi. ->rous delight.”
But Jones said: “N . There’s nothing else
to do.
I shall sit up and see the matter through.”
T slept quite soundly in a quiet place,
Aloof and distant from the female noise.
I spread a handkerchief across my face
And dreamt beneath the stars of simple joys.
I thought that with a rusted knife and fork
Toona and I essayed to draw a cork.
But at the moment when I heard the pop,
And ere I tasted of the liquid clear,
I wakened to observe a stalwart crop
Of feline whiskers in the place of beer :
Evangeline, with tail erect and free,'
VYas busy making morning love to me.
Then Toona came with dimples soft and
brown—
The girl who hitherto had sighed for Jones—
One yard beyond the cat she sat her down
And murmured Jove in very dulcet tones :
And ere from sleep my eyes were opened
wide
Loola was loving on the other side.
But where was Jones? I leapt upon my
feet.
I searched the island all from stem to stern,
hrom shafts to tailboard, but I could not
meet
His pleasant, grin nor of his hiding learn,
±ill Loola mentioned in a casual way
That Jones that night had gone to Heaven
—to stay.
YYTio killed him i With a blush and dimples
three
The girl admitted she had done the deed—
Ao Jones must stand between herself and
me!
His corpse lay buried in the wet brown
weed ;
And, as she took some trouble to explain,
The rising tide would soon remove the stain.
That night I roosted in the tallest tree,
h oul murder’s agent sighing at the root,
\\ lnle Toona made despairing signs to me
H earing three paper collars round each foot.
J could not sleep, for once mv eyelids closed
That dimpled girl would get me, I supposed.
But when the morning came the road was
clear.
Loola had left her post beneath the tree.
I scrambled down and saw without a fear
My pretty Toona smiling love to me.
‘‘She’s gone,” the girl remarked, “I got her
soon
After the sea gulped down the yellow moon.”
I climbed that tree again with fearful speed.
I sat within its forks for half a day.
Evangeline alone observed my need
And climbed to reach the branches where I
lay ;
But Toona. wailing like a calf-less cow,
Filled all the island with a widowed row.
Then righteous anger stirred within my
breast.
For brown blood spilt the brownest maid
must pay!
I scrambled down the tree and sought with
nest
That love-sick damsel to arrest and slay ;
But ere I went a dozen paces Jones
Appeared to me in all his well picked bones.
\es, he was lying there upon the sand,
Washed in by that same sea that washed
him out,
Short of two vertebra' and half a hand.
But Jones without the very slightest doubt.
And then I shuddered, paused and held my
breath,
t or Toona only had avenged his death.
“Good girl." I said, “now everything comes
right.”
And then I went to look where she was hid ;
But something on the white sand caught mv
sight—
A cask of pickled pork without a lid !
My glad and hungry shout went round the
isle
And Toona heard it with a soft, chaste smile.
She came to me with sixteen dimples set
In the warm brown of her blush-mantled
cheek.
Her lids were still with recent sorrow wet
And all her manner chastened, mild and
meek.
The satin shoes were in her glossy hair
And twenty collars made her bridal wear.
I kissed her lips beneath the arching green,
A wedding kiss that tasted rather well.
Her only bridesmaid was Evangeline:
The breakers on the coral rang the bell —
And then, regardless of a knife and fork,
We fell in unison upon the pork!
N.S.W.
PAT O’MAORI .
The Power and the Glory.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A SALVATION ARMY brigade had gone
by with a blare, a bang, and a flutter
of flags. Amongst them marched a
shrimp of a man with flushed face and eyes
that blazed.
“Y’noticed the chap with the boiled chiv
and the crab eyes?” said Chiller the Smooge.
“That’s Jimmy Hogan, who’s an officer of
some sort, and he’ll be a colonel some day.
The Power and the Glory ’as got ’im.
“The way I know the fax,” he continued,
sipping his beer, “is that I’m in with all the
parties—l was neighbor with ’em in a
lodgin’-house, as you might say. An’ that
chap’s love fer th’ Power and the Glory done
in one of the best women. At least But
I’ll tell you th’ story.
“None of us could see much in Jimmy
Hogan, as a matter o’ fae’. He was a little,
undersized chap, always talking fight and
leaving someone else to do it when it started.
Lord, he useter talk about women and beer
as if he was a Don Jewin and a Batchus
done up inter one! He was the kinder chap
who’d go round th’ corner ter one of th’
shops an’ put a bob on, an’ then talk of
havin’ a fiver on th’ horse. Yer know th’
sort of bloke I mean.
“Of course, as I say, the boys mostly
knew ’im fer what ’e was worth; but ’is chat
went down with th’ women. Y’ know—
except me own missus—women are queer
creatures. It must ’ave been that with
fer s^e got ,sllooli 0n ’i m - Before that.
Bill lompson was supposed to be ’er boy;
an’ a good, straight goer was Bill, an’ an
aid giafter, too. The first time it’s noticed
is at a moonlight excursh. Bill brings Annie
—buys the tickets an’ all that —an’ blow me
if Jimmy don t cut in an’ take all the dances
with ’er after th’ first! We find Bill down
at th pub pouring beer inter hisself an’
looking dazed; and some of ’is cobbers
chiaked ’im. ‘Wot yer goin’ ter do with the
blighter, Bill?’ they says. ‘Will yer throw
’im in the ’arbor?’ Gor’struth, ’e only looks
at them ! ‘Shut up!’ ’e says. ‘A girl can
choose, can’t she? An’ he orders another beer.
"Bill missed th’ boat ’ome, an’ came ter
work next day lookin’ as if ’e’d slept out. an’
with a bruised face, ’aving stoushed the big-
gest thing ’e could find, because he felt as if
e ’ad ter stoush somebody: and so Jimmy
takes Annie ’ome. Well, after that, Annie,
A PAIR.
STRAWHAT: “What ho!”
BOXER: “What hose!”
’oo is a big, motherly sorter woman—that’s
why Bill didn’t suit ’er perhaps ; ’e was too
roads, to mother—she took Jimmy
up fer good.. I s’pose she looked on 'im as a
bright, dashin’ young chap in need of re-
tormin, an’ as one of the firs’ steps she
marries ’im.
You know th sorter life some mothers
_ave. Well, I reckon that’s th’ sort Annie
ad with Jimmy. It wasn’t as if ’e was the
sorter feller that goes on a bender once an’
awhile jest ter get it over ; but. fer boastful-
ness, if a bloke said ter him: ‘Well, I got ter
git ome ter the missus, Jimmy,’ ’e’d drink
jest ter show ’e’d ’adn’t; an’ then ’e'd ’ave
one more jest ter make sure of it; an’ ’e'd
take ’ome a bottle ter show ’e did what ’e
liked m ’is own ’ouse.
“The way things went Jimmy was always
gettin’ inter trouble, an' spendm’ tli' last of
the family silver; and Annie ’ad a ’aril time
oi it. But she stuck well, an’ never said a
word to nobody, but just battled through.
-)°w un ’ then she ’ad ’er innings when
Jimmy got a fit of penitence, as some coves
will; an’ then she’d cart 'im off to the Salva-
tion Army, ter see if the noise d do ’im any
good. That’s the way she sowed ther seed.
“It was nearly two years before Annie
showed any signs of being tired with th’ job.
L don b s pose she would 'ave. even then, if
there'd been any children : but no children is
a tragedy fer the likes of Annie. She started
ter drink a bit, which is no good to a woman,
but y’kin understand it when you know all
she ad to eat some nights was what ’er
usband took 'ome in a bottle. Still, she done
'er best for Jimmy, an’ one time she took a
job so as ter ’elp th’ finances.
Ihe trouble started when Jimmy gutter
know that Bill useter go an’ ’ave meals at
ther place where Annie got ther job; 'e
didn't mind Annie workin’, but the idea of
'er waitin’ on Bill upset ’im. The night ’e
ears about it e spends the ev’ning drinkin’
au . swearin’ ’ow 'e’s goin’ ter smash up Bill;
an e finishes by ’eavin’ arf a brick through
th window of th’ joint.
1 hat lands im in the soup, o’ course;
an Annies in a stew to get ‘im out. She
raised some money—an’ although r don't
know. I think Bill ’elped—ter git a lawyer
workm’, an’ Jimmy got out on bail. ’Ome ’e
comes in a stinkin’ passion with everyone
because he s got hisselt inter trouble, which
is the way with squibs; an' th’ first thing he
says to is wife is: ‘You’d better git out.’
“I told yer,” Chiller added, “that we was
neighbors, in a way of speakin’. You can
ear purty well in some lodgin’-’ouses.
O Jim !’ she cries.
t>-n e sa y s - ‘Go to yer bloomin’
Kill Ow can a man git -on in the world
tied to a woman like you?’
"Of course I’m cutting out all the lan-
guage an most of the conversation. I’m
just givin’ you the grist of the thing. At
any rate, in spite of the landlady coming
along, e turns ’er out. And, in spite of the
landlady saying she can sleep in ’er room
Annie goes out in a sort of dazed way.
sayin’ she knows where to go.
‘TCnowin’, the way things gen’ally go, I
thought shed come back in an hour or two,
01 else go to a friend’s; but she goes wan-
denn about, an’ brings up at a wineshop.
1 hen some way Bill comes across ’er,
most drunk, an’ knowin’ the tale got ’er
fixed up somewhere.
“Well, Jimmy went up. ’aving mixed the
window-smashing with language and dis-
orderly, an’ out there he met a Salvation
Army olhcer. coming round, wlio’d seen ’im
at some o’ the meetin’s. Seems the idea
of the chance the Army, gives for a man to
skite appealed to ’im. The first we know
about ’im bein’ out again is ter see ’im in an
Army uniform, testifying to ’ow wicked ’e’s
been.
There’s not a sinner amongst y’all.’ ’e
shouts, ‘as is as black as I was; but I’m
made white by th’ Blood, bless the Lord!’
(Bless the Lord! Hallelujah!’ says the
others. 1 I fullered the lusts of the flesh,
brethren. I was a drunkard: a gambler; a
companion of loose women. In my sin and
mj wickedness I allied myself with a woman
of sin ; but I am saved as a brand from the
buining. Th Bower an’ the Glorv ’as got
me!’ '
“Well, Bill wanted Annie ter live with
im, but she acted square. She gotter job
an’ kept ’erself. an’ avoided Bill. I think
she was ashamed of ’is ’avin’ seen ’er
drunk, anyway. When she ’ears that
Jimmy’s out an’ sent no word to ’er, it ’urt.
I could tell, because she drank a bit, which
she ’adn’t done fer a time. Then she gets
in th’ ’abit of following Jimmy’s little
army round, keepin’ in th’ shadow although
what ’e said about ’avin’ been allied to a
woman of sin must ’ave tasted bitter. I
s’pose ’e noticed ’er; anyway, they both
came back to the old address.
"Don’t think I ’ave a ’abit of listenin’ to
things,” Chiller interrupted his narrative to
remark. “What Jimmy said he spoke as if
he was addressin’ a meetin.’
“ ‘I am goin’ ter forgive yer fer all th’
parst,’ he says. ‘Th’
Lord forgave th’
woman of Samaria,
an’ it is not fer me,
tha't was meself
lorst in wickedness,
ter be less forgiv-
in’. Will yer live
straight?’
“ ’But, Jimmy, I
’ave lived straight,’
she answers, near
crying. ‘’Struth, I
ain’t done nothing,
so ’elp me!’
“ ‘Will yer live
straight?’ ’e says,
punehin’ his hand.
“ ‘Yes. Jim; o’
course I will!’ she
says.
“ ‘With t’ ’elp of
the Lord!’ he says.
Wflrningly. ‘Come,
let us wrestle in
prayer.’
“By this time
she’s crying.
“ ‘Do you repent
(( , your sins?’ he yells
xes, she sobs. ‘l’m sorry fer every-
thing !’
‘‘‘Then, tell it to the Lord,’ he roars.
lor some time they was quiet, except ’er
sobbing, while I could hear him walkin’ up
an’ down the room; till all of a sudden he
says : ‘You ain’t a-doin’ it!’
Just here she’s sobbing so’s I couldn’t
stand it, but went out fer a beer till things
dried off a bit. When I came back ’e was
tellin’ God all about their sins, an’ pravin’
fer forgiveness—mainly fer ’er. ’im ’aving
been squared already.
"As the months went in I Could see it was
weann’ on Annie. She used to beg ’im to
stay ’ome some nights, instead of goin’ out
with the Army, or take ’er out with ’im ; bid
’e only called ’er a temptress, an’ told ’er if
she truly repented ter come out an’ publicly
confess ’er wickedness. An’ though it
seemed the nacheral thing for a squib like ’im
to boast of ’is past sins. I couldn’t see a
woman like Annie standin’ on the street
corner tellin’ people she’d been a harlot
(which she wasn’t), an’ a drunkard (an’
whatever she ’ad been like that was ’is
fault).
The way it gets Annie —the weariness
an the loneliness—now an’ again makes ’er
drink a bottle of beer—not more than lots of
CONDITION A L.
EDYTH : “How long
does it take a girl to
learn to swim, dearie?”
GWI.ADYS : “Oh, it depends on
what sort of a man , is teaching you."
women do, anyhow. But one evening he
comes home, an’ notices the smell in her
breath.
“ ‘I met Bill at the corner of the street.’
he says, suspicious. And then : ‘You’ve been
failin’ into the ways of sin again !’
"I had thought ’er pretty broken-spirited
before, but she ups an’ ats ’im.
“ ‘What right ’ave you to insult me con-
tinually'. -1 Bill never ain’t been nothing to
me—although ’e might be, an’ I’d be ’ap-
pier ! I ain’t goin’ to ’ave you callin’ me
such things.’
“‘You are!’ he shouted. ‘You’ll ’ave to
come with me, to the Army, an’ confess yar
sins, ter show you’re saved—confess them all.
every one of ’em, to show the Power an’ the
Glory. That, or you go !”
“ ‘l’ll go !’ she said.
“The thing ’appened quick. She came
back for a minute, and cries, ‘Jimmy ! Hus-
band ! Do you mean it?’ an’ he says. ‘The
Lord is guidin’ me.’ An’ that night I ’ear
’im doin’ ’imself grand on ’is sins, an’ ’is
victory over the flesh by th’ Lord’s ’elp, with
the Power and Glory blazin’ out of ’is eyes
like motor-lights.”
"Bill an’ Annie?” I asked.
“Oh, they’re living in sin!” he said. “With
one or two little ’uns to show they’re not
ashamed of it; an’ very ’appy, too—though
in ordinary ways Annie might ’ave gone down
if it ’adn’t been fer a good straight-goer like
Bill. Bill’s got Annie; Annie’s got ’er kids;
an’ Jimmy's got ’is chance to boast about ’is
sinfulness.
“Though V ’asn’t that in full,” added
Chiller, reflectively. “Bill went down to ’im
one /ysht and got ’im aside.
“ ‘Talk about yer own blasted sins as much
as yer like,’ ’e told ’im ; ‘but cut that gyver
erbout Annie. She’s mine, now. Out it.
or I’ll push yer face in.” ” }
HAMER .


pur
m
X
'' '/s£■' <
/
V
mm.
i
Ilf Hi
Rill
’
: 1
i 1
yfafcun'J
Jffit - |
Scotch TfM
*& ti OuMi C.*s^* ; **?*?
%6/acr*
- '7L
■srvtef :M
! V
i*. «
?/ < TTll|iiff 11/2
SB
Tho Xmas
Foaco on Eapfk&iGoodunll touiapds Mon,
Gtvon in fh<? spipvt-
: N? 10.


“The Celestial Bulletin.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHEN the poet discovered he was
dead he had a momentary pang of
bitterness. There was 17s. 3d. to
'collect for his last poem accepted by The
►ulleiin, and now he would never be able
•to collect it. However, he supposed his
landlady would see to that. So he philo-
sophically rolled his swag and took the
track to Eternity. It was a heavy Maria
that he humped. Inside it, wrapped up in an
•old Bulletin cover, he had carefully packed
•all his sins, and, as an afterthought, had
flung in a few volumes of his verse. Then
he set out.
there was no difficulty about keeping to
the track, for a barbed-wire fence stretched
interminably over an illimitable plain, and
the going was easy, since the track had
been made through star-dust country. For
several millions of miles, or years, or eterni-
ties, or fourth dimensions, he trudged along
beside that barbed-wire fence. There was
nothing else to be seen, not even a Half-
way House. Sometimes lie began counting
the posts, for the sake of something to do;
but every time he reached a billion he had a
■smoke, boiled his billy and started counting
<igain. Occasionally he wrote poems in an
exercise-book, not because he thought there
was any chance of selling them in the hot
place he was bound for, but just because he
couldn’t help it.
He had just finished his 1,759,782,410 th
poem when in the distance he saw a high
paling fence across the track and stretching
out ot sight both ways. A year or so later
he noticed a gate in the fence —an ordinary
■suburban back gate. lie was rather sur-
prised at the wooden fence. He had ex-
pected something less inflammable. How-
ever, he came to the conclusion that the
pahngs might be really made of asbestos.
The poet knocked at the gate. An old
bloke, rather like a retired sundowner,
looked wearily at the newcomer through his
whiskers.
“Morning!” said the poet.
“Mornin’!” said the old bloke. “Come far?”
.'.wK or So ‘ Hast cam fl was the earth.”
Wot’s the news down there?” the stran-
ger asked. “Anythink doin’?”
“Nothing much. They’re still sub-editing
my verses at the Bully, and beer’s still the
fame price, and there’s a bit of a scrap over
in Europe, and our boys ait doing their
Httle bit, as I always told ’em they would.”
“Em!” the ancient bloke remarked in a
non-committal way. He had rather lost
interest in the earth
“Any room inside?” asked the poet.
We’re rather full up,” the old bloke
replied. He looked the poet over -with a
hopeless eye. “Wot yer got in that there
bhiey ?”
The poet unrolled his sins. The old man
gingerly picked some of them up, felt them
m a non-committal way, smelt one rather
ancient -sin, and held another to the light.
Then he put them down. “I’ve seen a bet-
ter lot, he said; “but then I’ve seen worse.”
Ihe poet began to roll up his swag. “No
luck !’ he muttered. “By the way, is this
pub Hell?”
Y °u re not the first as ’as made that mis-
take.’ sighed the old man. “No :it ain’t
Hell. You take the first turn to the right
and keep straight on for 26 eternities, if
you’re goin’ as far as Hell. This ’ere
place is Heaven.” The poet’s amazement
did not surprise him. “Not much ter look
at from the outside,” he admitted; “but it
gets better further on. Just ’ere,” he added
gloomily, “Heaven wouldn’t run one angel
to the acre.”
“So this is Heaven,” said the poet. “Then
I s’pose your name is Peter? I had a
father once, down there, named Peter. Ever
come across him?”
Peter shook his head. “I can’t remem-
ber every bloke who drops in.”
“Better be getting along,” the poet mut-
tered. rolling his swag. One of his volumes
ot verse fell out. The poet picked it up
and showed it to Peter. “Any use to
you, Pete?” lie remarked. “They're a bit
awkward to pack in my swag.”
Peter took the book and wearily glanced
at it. Suddenly he began to read
eagerly. “Who wrote this?” he asked.
“You?’ The old bloke gripped the poet’s
hand. “Chuck them sins away,” he ex-
claimed, “and come right inside!”
“But why?”
“You wrote these?” Peter said. “Well,
that s you the real you. Your sins don’t
matter; they were committed by your
body. But these books are you—the
real you. All the rest don’t count. Me-
that is, me and ’lm in there,” he pointed
\\ ith his thumb over the paling fence —“we
don t care a damn what the body part of a
man does as long as the real man done some-
think. Yer sins was part of you—once,
on earth. They ain’t part of von now,
because all you’ve got now is a soul—and
that s as innocent as an Egyptian girl I
once knoo down on earth before I got con-
However,” he broke off. confusedly,
that don t matter. You’ve shed them sins
ot the body, same as 1 done. And when a
bloke sheds his sins of the body usually he
amt got nothink else to put in their place.
8° we passes ’im out. But you’ve got
somethmk else ter show. 1 ain’t no judge
ot poetry, but I knows wot I likes. Come
on in.”
And he opened the suburban back gate and
the poet into Paradise.
“I’H show you round,” said Peter, as he
carefuHy locked the gate behind them.
Not half bad!” was the poet’s enthusias-
tic but Australian comment, as they do-
scended at the end of the tram section in the
centre of the celestial Canberra.
They stopped in front of a marvellous and
towering palace—-a thing of jasper, black
opal and malachite, inlaid with pearls. It
reminded the poet of Mark Foy’s.
‘‘What's -this place, Pete?” he asked.
Post office or a pub?”
“No.” said Peter, “this is the celestial
Bulletin.”
The poet was amazed. “You mean to
say, he gasped, “there’s a Bulletin in
Paradise ?”
Of course. The seraphim want some-
think ter read, don’t they? Can’t be sing-
ing anthems all the time.”
‘And do they pay for contributions?”
asked the poet, feeling for the black exor-
cise-book in his swag.
es -’ a , llc * pay wei *- Even at space rates.
Bellenve gets a diamond a word. You see.
Jimmy
“Jimmy!” echoed the poet. “Is old
Jimmy
"Of course ! The office was built for him.
to his own design. You see, when he
arrived he felt lonely. We all do. at first,
hut we get used to it. We asked him what
he cl like to do to feel comfortable, and he
said that all he wanted was to sit down in
some back room and write 328,601 editorials
pei week, and in his spare time generally
potter about, suggesting cartoons, interview-
ing poets, correcting proofs, and reading
manuscripts say about 25 hours a day. So
we ran this ’ere little ’umpy up that night,
and at eight o’clock next mornin’ Jimmv
arrived and started writin’ Plain Englishes,
lies bin writin’ ever since. Lives on the
liremmes. We offered ’im the whole of the
South floor as a flat, but ’e said any old
corner would do for ’im. ’lO preferred a
room that looked out into a back lane, with
a gas-engine exhaust goin’ on all the time
under im and two tanks filled with rubbish
in the back lane, and a lot of carters discus-
sin politics all the afternoons below ’im.
He said it would feel more homely. So we
built a ba<-k lane and a gas-engine and hired
a mob of out-of-work angels and taught ’em
some Australian politics ter give ’im inspira-
tion.”
‘ I say, asked the poet, “I don’t suppose
I could see him?”
“Certainly; come on in.”
Exteriorly and interiorly the building was
quite unlike the earthly Bulletin office.
The golden walls panelled and inlaid with
platinum and copper, for instance: the
broadly-curving staircases of pink marble, the
electric lift, a dazzling jewel of translucent
porphyry and chalcedony, the wide palm
courts, the silver fountains —all these gave
a baffling, unfamiliar air to the building. But
when he came to a small door, made of mere
wood, marked “Editor.” and Peter opened it
without knocking—-it was not even locked—
the poet found himself back among more
home-like surroundings. A single electric
light dispelled the pervading gloom, for one
ot the specifications insisted upon by the
editor Mas tnat there was to be no sunshine
admitted.
The editor was hard at work, attended by
a resplendent cherub named Frank. He
looked up and recognised Peter -with delight.
1 eter was an old friend of his. Jimmy
knew more about Peter than Peter did about
himself, especially about Peter’s career on
earth. And Peter was his most valuable
contributor of Abo. pars. He wrote in ancient
Egyptian, but that made no difference.
Ihe editor knew hieroglyphics and the baked-
brick language of Babylon. As it happened,
too, Rameses was his leading lino-operator;
and the editor often used to write his Plain
Celestials in hieroglyphics on bricks. lie
was using one scorching effort now as a
paper-weight.
The poet was naturally diffident. He
thought that Jimmy might be pleased to see
him; but then he wasn’t sure. He hung
back while the editor discussed Peter’s latest
Abo. par. His halo was hooked on a conveni-
ent nail just over his desk, so that, in
moments when he wanted inspiration, he
could take it down and scratch it.
Suddenly he saw the poet. He leapt from
his chair and gripped his hand. It was
many years since anybody had gripped the
poet’s hand : the poet always used to do the
gripping.
"Hullo!” the editor happily exclaimed.
Been waiting for you. Hand over that
exercise book.”
The poet hurriedly produced it, and the
editor rapidly scanned the 1 ,75d,752.410
poems.
"I’ll take the lot,” he said heartily. “It’s
time we got a more genuine Australian
touch in the paper. The treasurer will pay
you as you go out. His office is just opposite
that titanic statue in gold of ‘Bellerive.’ It’s
at the far end of the great gallery of statues.
.See you to-morrow early, and 1 hope you’ll
have some more poems.”
And he wrung the poet’s hand again, and
hurried back to his desk.
r etei led the poet down the gorgeous
staircase into the private bar. It ° was
unlike any private bar that he. or anybody
else, had ever dreamed of. Beautiful
attendants ministered to his liquid desires.
They hadn’t any beer —apparently they had
never heard of the stuff: but 'on Peter’s
advice the poet called for two pints of
nectar. It proved much more interesting
than beer. Ihe poet had only one fear —
that it might turn out to be non-alcoholic.
But he needn’t have worried. It was much
more potent than Tooth’s.
. ®ter wiped his whiskers and suddenly
discovered that he had better be getting back
to ,11s gate. He handed the poet over to a
copy-bo.v cherub, and departed.
I lie printer s angel asked the poet if lie
would like to see the composing-rooms. The
poet politely expressed the opinion that this
brand of nectar interested him more than
any inspection of celestial linotypes.
The cherub smilingly replied that he
wasn’t . referring to linotypes, but to the
composing-rooms for poets—the rooms speci-
ally furnished for the composition of poetry.
The poet thought that after another piat
he would rather like to see the composirg-
rcorns. So, after a visit to the treasurer,
v\ ho tilled his pockets with diamonds, rcse-
-1 eaves, Australian banknotes and green
coupons, the poet followed his guide info a
spacious library. At a noble desk sa; an
Australian poet writing immortal poetry.
As lie flung each sheet of copy to
the marble floor, a deft cherub caught it,
whisked it away, and in a moment returned
with a galley-slip for the poet’s revision.
The next room was fitted up with a stage,
whereon a competent company of angelic
actors, with a villain specially engaged, at
an enormous salary, from llell (by special
permission of Satan, as the play-bill
announced), was performing melodramas of
the deepest dye. Earnestly watching them
was "Bellerive.” At the conclusion of each
scene he hurriedly scribbled a complete
poem, which, as the cherub informed the
poet, was immediately set up in letters of
silver upon the pediment of his titanic
statue.
In the next room, labelled “Letters to the
Editor,” A. (J. IluJe was happily dictating
to a sweet young typist, whose halo was the
peroxide color of her luxuriant tresses, those
column-long letters of his that, on earth,
had made so many a sub-editor happy. At
other tables were “Mother of 37” and “Pro
Bono Publico” similarly engaged.
The poet just glanced into the horse-poet
department, where wild pegasuses were
engaged bucking oft hilarious horse-poets.
But the surfing-poet department, where
enormous billows swept syrens into the arms
of their waiting bards, hardly interested him.
This, said the printer’s angel, “is more
interesting. It is the department for Spring
•poets.”
He opened a door of carved jade, and
suddenly they found themselves in a tropical
garden, lit .by. real sunlight, and with celes-
tial birds singing (to order) amid the wattle
blossom. “It is always Spring here,” tin-
copy cherub explained, “and we provide
lovers for the inspiration of Spring poets.”
Dotted about the grass were numbers of
Spring poets kissing large quantities of
Spring girls, and, in the infrequent intervals
between kisses, singing delicious Spring
songs. These were recorded by innumerable
gramophones, and in the infrequent intervals
referred to the Spring poets corrected the
galley-proofs that fluttered, like falling-
petals, from the branches of the trees.
There was another room, marked “Red
Page,” where a grey-haired celestial critic
was busily engaged writing in letters of
platinum upon marble tablets pasans of
enthusiastic praise of minor Australian
poets. And there was another in which a
radiant seraph of gentle mien wearing an
apron, and with his collar and his halo on
backwards, was answering correspondents
in terms of almost fulsome eulogy.
“Perhaps you’d like to meet some of our
Muses?” the printer’s angel suggested.
The poet nodded, and they entered
another palace. Here he met every con-
ceivable species of muse, whose sole function
was to inspire every conceivable species of
poet. Some muses were in fashionable sum-
mer costume, showing just a hint of silk-
stockinged ankle. These were for the benefit
of topical society poets. Others were in
surfing costume; and others wore practically
nothing but their pink haloes, They wore
these round their waists or as garters. This
species of muse was in great demand.
All this.was mildly interesting; but the
poet declined the cherub’s offer of a private
blonde muse to take home with him. “I
think,” he remarked politely, “I’d rather
have another pint of that nectar.”
“Certainly, sir,” said the cherub, “come
this way.”
But to the poet’s surprise he did not lead
him back to the nectar bar. Instead, he
conducted him, per wing (he found that he
had sprouted wings), to a distant palace
set in a lovely park, but surrounded by
barbed-wire entanglements. These, of
course, they flew easily over. The palace
looked very like a pub. magnified six mil-
lion times. At one of the innumerable bars
a pink-haloed bar-angel handed the poet a
pint of foaming nectar and informed him
that it was her shout. He ordered the bar-
angel to fill it up again. She smiled, and
pointed to the pint-pot. It was already
full. He drained it —only to find that again
it was brimming. He lost count of the
number of times that this happened.
Then he began to notice fantods. These
did not look at all like the fantods lie had
met on earth : they were the most delicious
and delectable fantods he had ever drunk.
After a bit he began to lose count of the
fantods.
It was just then that the poet felt an
irresistible longing to see The Bulletin
editor again. He desired to clasp that
kindly man’s hand, to hold it in a tenacious
grip while he discoursed gloriously and inter-
minably about noble and radiant matters
concerning a poet's soul. He decided to fly
thither at once. But on leaving the bar lie
found that he couldn’t control his wings.
He flopped clumsily down inside the front
gate, above which the barbed wire entangle-
ments towered a thousand miles. To the
gatekeeper, who wore two haloes, he ex-
plained his intense desire to pour comfort
into the soul of his soul-mate, The Bulle-
tin editor.
“It’s this way. ’ that phlegmatic indivi-
dual replied, as he refused to open the door.
“This ’ere pub is kept for poet-blokes. They
can get drunk as long and as much as they
likes ere. That’s what this ’ere place is
lor. Absently he spat on his two brown
haloes and polished them on his trouser leg.
‘“The authorities reeo’nise that Australian
poets like occasional spell from writin’
potery. Not that I ever read the stuff
meself. And the best way to take a ’-oliday
is to fill yerself up with nectar. Well, so
long as you’re drunk you’ve got ter stav
;ero. Very pleasant place, sir. to get drunk
in. as you 11 find. And when you’re sober
again, and only see one halo on my head,
and start writin’ pomes again, off you can
fl y- hhe editor doesn’t want you—all ’e
wants is yer pomes. And we find that with
Australian poets this is the onlv way we
can keep up the supply of potery. ‘ Yer
writes yer pomes when you’re recovering
from yer jag, and then you sobers up, cleans
up yer halo and combs yer wing- feathers,
and flies away with yer pomes to tie editor
And he's glad ter see yer. sober, with them
pomes. And then, naehurally. vou feel
ready fer another drink, and back yer comes.
Ihats ow it’s arranged ’ere, sir.”
Right-o! said the poet, as he turned
back, and that’s how it should have been
arranged on earth.”
ARTHUR H. ADAMS .
THE MATRIMONIAL WEATHER-GLASS .
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The old clock standing in the hall
Serves as my home barometer.
It leans against the whited wall,
And by its motions I infer
What Jim’s climatic state may he
W hen he lias not come home to me.
At twelve if lie’s not with me yet,
In matronly concern I fear
He’s meteor’logically wet.
At one if still he is not here
The reading of the glass appals:
“Terrific downpour—heavy falls.”
At ten if hubby is elsewhere
I rest qu.te easy in my mind,
For then the hands are set at “fair”;
Hut if a i half-past lie’s behind,
I know the moving finger forms
A hint of coming wind and storms.
VICTORIA.
Then when he comes the verity
Of my old clock to demonstrate,
Unselfishly to hide from me
How weather-worn he is, my mate,
In stockinged feet with movements sly,
Sets hack the hands to “Warm and dry.”
SILAS SNELL.


eh
:
V.*
ms
E.
. .si*
•v*
sfcs?
-A.-iv
—r~—
:r : ", ■t- t *
?■»
-
.**“■
■ -w< •..
-:-
p; vl
fc
s &
US
mf:
’V}
lb . : - ! i
m v ,
a&ait-.'s
, •■ r
I*’ l *BO
1 ‘ r-tffff
11
' 1
91
■I
-V
f
wm
m
r
smmm.- . v; \
Lsa
■• I
' ■ • . f «Si
■Jm ?«i
1"..;:.1.'... fifl
.'Me**.
B X. m M
. ’ ' dB&X.i-M
■
/ '
!& ’’ , '- '
. 1%:
fe:3
••>JHreaEES?i
. r** vra®
Zip:
W'■
SKI-'S
S'W'ffl
Industry relies on
RUBBER GOODS ”
In every direction its use is now essential in some form for the furthering
of the commercial and manufacturing enterprises of Australia In hundreds
of ways it makes for Efficiency, which from now on must be the slogan of
the industrial community of this country. In this connection, all users
of Rubber Goods can always rely on obtaining the utmost Service
with Economy when they bear the “ Dunlop ” brand. For years
everything of the best in Rubber in this country has emanated from
the Dunlop Mills-quality in the goods and satisfaction to the user
being the foundation upon which our huge business has been built
Our efforts have been appreciated, our
business has grown, and our patrons are
numbered in tens of thousands, all because
DUNLOP
Rubber Goods
are dependable and efficient. We make
Rubber Goods for every conceivable pur-
pose, and shall at all times be pleased to
cater for your requirements. Our manu-
factures comprise:—
Mining and Engineering Rubber Goods;
Rubber Belting; Railway and Shipping
Requirements ; Rubber Heels; Mats and
Matting; Hot Water Bags; Waterproof
Garments and Rugs ; Tennis, Golf and
Lacrosse Balls ; Football Bladders; Handle
Grips; Wringer Rollers; Milking Machine
Requisites; Hose —Garden, Suction,
Brewers’; Medical Goods, Ebonite, &c.,
and Cycle, Motor and Vehicle Tyres.
Australia has a wonderful future, but only by
Industry, Thrift, Economy and Loyalty to your
own manufactures can this country fulfil its destiny.
Remember this —and specify “ Dunlop ’’ brand when
you require Rubber Goods. Our representatives are
at your call, so are samples, lists, etc., on application.
DUNLOP RUBBER
COMPANY.
108 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
27-33 Wentworth Av., Sydney.
67 King Street, Perth.
268-274 Adelaide St., Brisbane.
103-105 Flinders St., Adelaide.
53 Cameron St., Launceston.
95 Courtenay PI., Wellington.
116 Worcester St, Christchurch.
62 Fort Street, Auckland.


Coal Hulk,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SOB of the ebb-tide underneath the City
quays,
Drone of a tramear passing on the
street,
Crazy ole wlieat-waggoh clacking on its
axle-trees
And a poor ole coal-hulk drowsing in the
heat.
Nid-nod-nodding at its thin, frayed mooring-
ropes,
Rheumy at the counter and scarred about
the beams,
Chuckling over ole times, sighing over dead
hopes,
Fine ole clipper-hulk happy in your dreams!
“Hi!” a little tug-boat's shouting like a
school kid—
“Hi! grab yer tow-line an' cast off aft:
Stir up yer ole bones, orf wid yer 'atch-lid.
Wake up. farver! —it’s time to git ter
graft!
“Ye’re bung full o’ steam coal, chock full o'
Westport!
The ship’s in the stream and the ropes are
in the sheaves.
It’s ho! with a strong pull an’ a long pull,
ole sport,
The blokes in the bunkers are rollin’ up their
sleeves!”
MAORILANP.
BOYCE BOWDEN.
The Mysterious Ways of
Providence.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THERE is uo clock in the workroom of
the Maypole Jam Factory; but the
sun rays streaming through the low.
dirty west windows testify to the flight of
time. The day is waning. Ere long it will
be “knock off," a fact driven home at this
hour to. the “squashes” who, remorseful
maybe over a few moments wasted pre-
viously, now put up records in bucket-fill-
A GLORIOUS ETERNITY.
SAINT PETE (to grumbling sundowner who
has arrived in Sundowners' Heaven):
"Gitalong! There's the road that never
ends, and the sun that never sets, free
booze and free tucker, AND NO WORK
OFFERED ALONG THE TRACK, and two
satellites to hump Matilda and billy.
Now- what more can a man want?"
ing, only to be broken by other records more
and more amazing. In the effort to win
money every hand is a “speeder up,” peel-
ing, squeezing, clawing the skin from pears
by any means, fair or foul. Perspiration
dries upon their faces for want of a
handkerchief; hair falls down for want of
a pin; all neatness goes to the wall for
want of time. . The smell of fruit is in
eternal combat with the smells sneaking
from closely-lidded tins of tomatoes. The
contents become so rebellious, hissing and
bubbling so loudly, that their immediate
conversion into sauce is necessary.
To this maze of labor, this crash of
machinery, Harry, alias Stynko, adds his
quota by cursing tomato cultivation from
seed-time to harvest as he shoulders the in-
surgent stuff and bumps his way for’ard
with it. This youth, cigarette-tainted, pale,
unwholesome, stooping, like a weed growing
in a cellar, is still invested with some subtle
charm, which, though invisible to the older
generation, works havoc among the flappers.
Because of one playful smear of his gummy
hand jam girls have smitten one another
with rotting fruit: they have risked the
sack for him by “dealing it out” to the
rival with hard, green apples—most deadly
of weapons. A big collection of scalps has
he, the last that of Lucia Deitnoviteh,
otherwise Loosha.
Loosha had given her love as she gave
her hate, gratuitously and fiercely, as became
one descended from vendetta-holding pro-
genitors who had herded with wild goats
and wolfish dogs among European moun-
tains. She was sinuous and swarthy, with
volcanic eyes: to her life would never mean
stagnation. But Stynko had no time for
the eruptive creature. His love, always
unstable and poor in quality, was on offer
to another girl, pale and fair, like a
Madonna in a church window, who sat
halving peaches, and wore, as well as a
touch-me-not air, a Salvation Army shield
—this as talisman against Sin as typified
by her admirer. She never gave Stynko the
glad eye, Not openly, at any rate; but
sometimes lie might have divined its beam
piercing him from behind, flooding him with
Christian love, searching his sinful soul like
a Rontgen ray looking for a fracture.
Loosha saw how the wind blew, and. had
opportunity offered, would have halved the
throat of either of them with one thrust of
the paternal dagger; instead of which
dramatic vengeance she had to resort to
peach nuts for sniping practice, and to
disfiguring with old fruit the Bible texts
upon the factory walls —texts placed there
at the command of the sharp-eyed Salva-
tionist forewoman, who thus cast seed on
stony ground.
(Rutted witli gratis scalps, Stynko,
staggering in with cases of fruit and out
with tins of tomatoes, ogled for the one
scalp unattainable. lie tickled Madonna
with an apple-bough or tenderly placed
before her the fruit of the passion-vine.
Vain overtures. He was a sinner who
“two-lipped” in the shadow; she a saint
who sang in the sun. to the glory of General
Booth. Oil.and water cannot mix.
Pop! Pop! Off' flew a couple of tomato
lids like crackers on Guy Fawkes Day.
Hasten, Stynko ! Bear away the mutineers.
Smother their rebelliousness in the tanks
where tomato sauce is in the making. Even
as you bump away, friend Stynko. other lids
are blowing off. and released gas is flooding
the factory, setting the teeth on edge and
causing heart-burn in any chest not war-
ranted acid-proof.
By the time Stynko is through with the
insurgents—has pressed them down and
soothed them in the tanks—his hands are
not meet for the eye of a Madonna even
if she is a jam girl and thus inured to glue.
So Stynko wipes them upon a communal
towel hanging in the lobby, and thus
cleansed brings oth-er tribute for the altar
—this time ripe strawberries.
Loosha’s eyes shoot green sparks as she
watches, and the Madonna, her nose red-
dening with the sacrifice, her whole attitude
that of a Christian martyr, casts
the offering into a bucket of waste.
She seemed a stupid Madonna,
unable to make capital from cir-
cumstance. One more diplomatic
would have scalped Stynko through
his affections; would have roped
him. if not into the fold, at least
to the back benches of the bar-
racks.
Loosha's smouldering eyes had
taken in this fresh evidence of her
rival’s scorning of Stynko, the
beloved.
“She gotta no time for yous,”
she gibes, as he bumps past again.
“She-a want you, I don' think.”
Ungallantly Stynko almost
smothers Loosha with ancles, and,
coming to the Madonna’s bench,
collecting the refuse, finds among
it his basketed strawberries pitched
out.
Love has been spurned once too
often. He glares at her beneath
his cap-rim.
“You got a pretty good ’pinion o’
yourself, anyhow,” he bawls at her.
“Want a chap to think you’re one
o’ the saints ! But not me !”
With a gluey paw he indicates
a once red and white text upon the
wall.
“See that?” he says.
She sees it. Grimy it is. and
bedaubed with petrified fruit,
thrown in all unholiness.
“ ‘Love one another,’ ” he reads
aloud. “Watch me. You chuck
my strawbs in the muck. Now you
see me wipe that old text off the
map.”
Filling his hands he leaves her.
his intention being the entire obli-
teration of Holy Word, and ore-
senfly is seen mounting a tall, spindly
ladder leaning against the wall, its top
rungs hiden by the belting. She bows her
head in silent prayer that he commit not
this sacrilege lest he be damned beyond the
relenting of any Salvation lass.
At this juncture comes the fat. hairy
foreman, unwillingly conducting a touring
party—visitors who are anxious to see
behind the scenes; meddlesome persons who
worry about Pure Foods Acts and such
things. Whence they come none knew.
Were they persons of clerical bias bent on
improving the masses? None cared. None
in that factory knew' themselves indeed as
masses.
The foreman is shouting information—
mostly false —into, the ear of the foremost
visitor as lie peers benevolently round
through blue glasses. The others look about
them in a criticising way, sniffing the
tomato-scented air, doing involuntary skab-
ihg exercises on banana skins, ducking to
avoid flying fruit-pulp which sploshes on
the grimy zinc floor. They have collected,
in their devious track through the building,
enough to keep them busy for life with
letters to the press, beginning “I crave your
valuable space” and signed “Hygiene” ; and
now they would like to leave while their
clothing and their notes are still fresh.
But the man with the blue glasses is a
glutton for information. He is still busy.
(’lose upon him comes one who is a
walking shudder. He shuddered at the dirt.
He shuddered at the din. His spine crept
as his enamelled footwear crunched into a
mouldy quince. His neck broke into goose-
flesh and his very finger-nails turned pale
at sight of a stout, motherly “squash,” with
a full bucket, who momentarily barred Ins
advance. When she had carried her gluev
bulk out of sight he saw other women
without any of the appeal of womanhood —
offensive to bis every aesthetic sense. He
had to side-step smartly to avoid being mown
down by a malignant boy dragging a truck
of jangling tins, a boy thoroughly imbued
with animosity to fastidiousness of any
kind. The shuddering young man craved
air., lie looked desperately round for some
way of escape. Get-away there was none.
Hemmed in he was by heaps of pears rolling
out. of cases, slithering off tables, over-
flowing everywhere, and ripening and
bubbling on all sides. His soul felt very
sick, yet he bore himself with a semblance
of British calm even when his eye met the
enigmatic glance of Looslm.
Loosha was modelling a hand grenade, of
straw, pulp and nuts; a weapon deadly
enough to asphyxiate a Iluu. The exquisite
shuddered again. Was she going to strike
him—with that! He closed his eyes.
But Loosha’s target was otherwise. Above
and behind the young man she had a clear
view of him, Stynko, perched high upon the
ladder, up among the texts and cobwebs. He
was caught in a trap of his own making.
Descent was impossible while the foreman
was about: for Stynko, as well as neglect-
ing his work, was on the engineer's ladder,
sacredly reserved to that person alone.
From his perch he could see the foreman
still shouting horrid details; could see
Loosha’s accusing eye, the
Madonna’s pleading look:
could see the squashes run-
ning short of fruit and recon-
noitring for him and fresh
suoplies. Soon there would
be a hue and cry.
"Curse them blokes, blarst
'em!” he shouted unheard.
"Why don’t they get a move
on V”
His legs were giving away
with the vibrations of the
ladder, and the belting sliding
ever and ever past was mak-
ing him giddy.
The fastidious young man
was summoned by the eyes of
his chief, mildly imperative
benind the blue of his glasses.
Unwillingly lie joined him.
bending low over a tub of
rotting vegetable matter —
sniffing—faugh ! The foreman
was shouting into the chief’s
ear and the chief was passing
the item on. What was it?
Something about bacteria —
some obscure form of life
which the chief had discerned
in the tub. Together they
bent lower.
It was this moment that
Loosha had chosen to throw
the grenade. Unlike her father she was
not a dead shot. She aimed at Stynko. but
struck the foreman in the teeth. With a
suffocating yell he fell against the ladder,
and down came Stynko on to the shoulders
of Blueglasses and the shuddering young
man, who were still bending over the tub.
They went in, head first, up to their brace
buttons, their legs waving antennee-Uke
above board, while the tomato sprayed
itself like a cloud-burst all over the factory.
No one realised how it happened. Stynko
bolted away, unseen in the confusion, to
the safety provided by the Madonna’s volu-
minous overall, with which mantle she
covered him till he could escape. As
for the fat foreman, he was too busy grovel-
ling in the tub for the blue glasses and
wiping and scraping the victims to be
coherent. Whatever he sensed about
Stynko being the cause he kept dark. He
wasn’t for producing incriminating evi-
dence. And anyhow they deserved all they
got for “spyin’ round.” So, amid the din,
lie shouted something about “apopletic faint”
into the sauce-filled ears of the victims —
a theory wholeheartedly accepted by the
shuddering young man at least, in view of
the sights and smells he had encountered
that day. lie never inquired further. The
whole thing was a ghastly episode best for-
gotten.
“Who’d ever ha’ thought to see me in a
Salvo uniform?” remarked Stynko to the
Madonna as they left the barracks a few
AT BILLYGOAT FLAT.—WESLEYAN
STREET.
Sundays later. “If it hadn’t ha’ been for
them ’angin’ over that tomato tub"
“The Dol'd moves in a mysterious way,
you know, ’Arry, His wonders to perform,”
quoted the Madonna piously; and to the
muted jiugle of her tambourine they walked
along the lovelit way.
WEEROONA.
Tir=nan=Og.
AN IRISH IDYLL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
[Note.— Tir-nan-og is the fabled land of perpetual
youth, where Ossian and other heroes wandered.
Some of the Irish bog waters preserve intact and
unchanged for a very long period the bodies of
animals and men drowned in them.]
Act I. — A quiet garden place below the
rath. There is a grey wall of mason stone,
and the apple trees ane in blossom. Behind
the , wall a hill covered with fir wood rises
steeply: and beyond this are seen the distant
peaks of the mountains. To the left a black
bog stretches far away to a distant line of
hills.
Bride is sitting on the green grass with a
hoop of embroidery in her hand, at which she
stitches diligently.
Bride : ’Tis a long time, and a weary
time, since he was here, and me look-
ing for him all the good days, and not
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
“Have you heard? Cohen hath committed
suicide."
“Ah, veil, he vas insured for more than he
vas vorth .”
wanting him to come. Och, it is a poor
tiling to be a woman, and her young, with
no thought but to do what them that are
older will be saying. ’Tis sore my heart
is for a sight of his two eyes ; and ’tis sore
my heart would be if he came up through
the bushes ; for my father will surely kill
him, and him doing nothing at all but
asking the kiss of me that cannot get the
look of him and the way of him out of
my thought. Och, Fineen, why were you
born at all on the wrong side of the black
bog? ( Starting up.) Whisht, ’tis a step
on the dry leaves. Maybe, it would be
Fineen; and my father gone this day to
Carrick Sloan, and him not coming back
till the moon is two hours up in the sky.
Baric Moran comes in. Me is an old man.
blind and feeling his way with a stick.
Bride : Och, sure, it is only the wise man,
and him not seeing his way; for all he can
look down into the years and tell what is
going to happen. ’Tis a good day and a
kind thought to you, dark man.
Moran : ’Tis a good day and the yellow sun
shining into the first of it; but it will be
a black night with a tear on the grass
when it is done.
Bride : Is it rain you mean at all ?
Moran : ’Tis some rain there will be with a
moon, maybe, between two wet clouds.
Bride : Och, well, it is a good sun now;
and it is the rain will make the grass
greener for the cows that give the sweel
milk.
Moran : Will you let me sit a while now bj
Conor’s sundial; for I have a long thoughl
to think?
Bride : You may sit by the sundial, surely
all the good day; but will I bring you a
cake to eat or a sup to drink? You have
come the long road, and you with youi
stick only to see the way.
Moran : ’Tis not meat or drink I will be
wanting, kind woman, but only a quiel
place to watch the shadow turning on the
slate stone.
Bride,: And how would you see the shadov
and you with your eyes dark?
Moran : Surely I will set my hand on it anel
feel the cold of the time as it falls on the
hour.
Bride : ’Tis the wonder of the w T orld, and yor
not seeing! Co now and sit where you
like best; and I will not be troubling yor
with my foolish words.
Dark Moran passes on. and the girl site
down again to her embroidery.
Fineen comes through the bushes at the
loicer end of the garden.
Bride : Och, well, if he would just come this
day when my father is away on the long
road, it would be 1 good to look into his two
eyes and hear him saying the soft words.
But he will not come ; for how would he
know, and him eight miles across the black
bog?
Fineen comes behind her and stoops over
her.
Fineen : Sure, Bride, ’tis a long step from
Ratheven. and never a hint of you rising
to meet me till I took the black bait of
you in my two hands.
Bride: Och, tail man. is it you yourself
and me thinking long for you all the yellow
days? Did they tell you my father had
the black cattle before him on the road to
Carrick Sloan?
(Continued on pace SB.)


Xmas Presents! Xmas Novelties!
The Dove Hosiery Stores
(Removed to Larger Premises),
313 Collins Street (Opp. Equitable Building), Melbourne.
INVITATION. If you are able to do so, be sure and visit our Stores, for to do so we-guarantee to save you at least 30 per cent.
A on all your purchases. We are the ONE and ONLY firm specialising in Hosiery, Gloves and Underwear. We carry all leading
makes, and, what is more, we guarantee every article sold. We have no shop expenses, no heavy rents, no book debts, so can
sell you single articles at semi-wholesale prices. For Christmas we are adding many fancy-goods lines, all of high class and
suitable for presents. For those who cannot visit our stores we extend the invitation to mail us your orders. Prompt delivery. Postage paid.
HOSIERY.
A very heavy Pure Silk Hose, full length, seam up back, very superior quality
that will not ladder, a decided advantage, in black or white, in all sizes.
Shops sell at 25/- pair—from us only at 10/o lair
Heavy Pure Silk Hose, 3-length, strong mercerised lisle tops, with extra-strong
feet, in black only, honestly worth 21/- pair—from us only at • • 10/o 1 air
The “Dove” Celebrated Pure Silk Leg Hose, full fashioned, very strong feet,
in black and white only. Sold all shops 10/6 —we sell 6/11 Pan
GLOVES.
All Pure Milanese Silk Gloves, in black, white, grey, mastic, navy, double tips,
of best American manufacture, every pair guaranteed. In many qualities
at 4/6 (black only), 4/9, 4/11, 5/3, 5/6, 7/6 Pair.
English Lisle Gloves, of very good manufacture, worth 4/11—from us only.
FANCY GOODS.
White Xylonite Photo Frames, Round or Oval, fit postcard photo,
but smart. Worth 2/6 —from us
very plain
1/- each
American Roll
fittings, very
(Latest) Manicure Sets,
useful and convenient for
consisting of 8/9 superior-quality
travelling, at
21/-, 25/-, 30/-, 40/-, 00/- each
British White Xylonite Hair Tidies, with lid, of very smart appearance, sold in
jewellers for 30/- each —from us only. . . - 21 /- eacn
White Xylonite Ladies’ Hairbrushes, suitable for monogram, a dainty present.
Two qualities, worth 25/-. 42/- each —from us 17/0, 27/0 each
Pure White Metal Watchchains, looks exactly like silver, a splendid present
for a boy. Sold in shops 5/6 each—from us 2/0 each
Unbreakable Dressed Dolls, compressed straw bodies, double-jointed, a truly
wonderful line : no better present for a girl. Town price, 7/6 each—from us
4/11 eacn
ipply. Money back if not completely satisfied.
NOTE. —Write us your wants. We can su
%
y
##
$
W
r
m
B
{■■r-x
m
: -r
'-w*
The Gillette you buy him
to-day will last a lifetime.
Looking forward five, ten or twenty
years wouldn’t it please you to know
that your Peace-year Yuletide gift was
still on the “active-service’’ list and
closely associated in his mind with
you and the year which saw the
beginning of the Great Peace?
The Gillette Safety Razor is a gift
that will last a lifetime.
Fifteen million men use the Gillette
to-day, and the razors which were in
use ten years ago are still giving a
full -measure of satisfaction, still giving
that clean, well-groomed appearance
to their delighted owners.
The Gillette gives a smooth, clean,
perfect shave in three minutes.
GILLETTE STANDARD SET.— The original
Gillette Set that introduced the modern way of
shaving—no stropping, no honing—known the
world over. Contains Triple Silver-plated
Razor; Blade boxes with 12 double-edged
Gillette Blades (24 shaving edges). The whole
contained in Morocco Grain Case.
Gillette Standard Sets.
BRITISH MADE.
Sold Everywhere.
SAFETY
RAZOR
NO STROPPING NO HONING
Write for illustrated and
descriptive booklet.
Mention this paper.
Agents for Australasia:
S. HOFFNUNG & CO. LTD., Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
» GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR, LTD,, LONDON, ENGLAND.


Fineen : They did not, surely: for who was
there to bring word? It was at the stroke
of the morning on the mountains that my
foot started out to see you. Och, heart, I
could stay no longer if your father had
two swords above me and me found with
your kiss red on my mouth.
Bride : Were you thinking long for me,
Fineen ?
Fineen : Och, no. It was the glad heart I
had, surely, and it broken into two sore
pieces, with you, that are the sight of my
eyes, sewing cloth your lone for ten day's
and me on the other edge of the green
world.
Bride (sighing softly) : Och, well, you are
come now ; and it is a good day. My father
will not be back till the moon is up two
hours.
Fineen : May the good night put a stone on
her yellow neck to keep her from rising too
soon when it is dark.
Act II. — The same place late in the day.
The sun is setting and there are wonderful
lights and colors on the mountains and over
the / wide bogland.
Bride and Fineen come in through the
apple trees. Dark Moran, feeling his way
with the stick, is slowly coming down the
garden path.
Bride : ’Tis a fine thing to .steal a day of
happy time; but, och, Fineen, what is it to
be at all in the days to come? Is it no
hope there is for us?
Fineen: There is hope, surely, Bride; for
it is not your father, nor all the swords in
the world, will keep me from taking yon
away.
Bride : Heart, but if you take me away
there will be war over the green world, and
men killed, and maybe no good done.
Fineen : How would there be war and us
on a green island in the blue sea with
them not knowing I had taken you? In
one night we would go across the black
bog; and in two days more we would be
at the shore. Would they know the way
to Ratliinnis, and them thinking we were
laughing at them in Ratlieven? Surely
they could walk through Ratheven and
every man speaking a true word to them
that he had not seen us there. In three
nights you will come, and there will be no
more thinking long under an old anple tree.
Bride : Och, Fineen, I would follow you over
the green world and the deep sea and down
to the black death itself; but there is a
fear on me for this night, and my father
hating you the way he does. Here is Dark
Moran. Will we ask him what will be?
Fineen: We will surely ask him; for if it
is dark to him outside, he has the sight of
far things. Moran, dark man, will you
look for me and see into the front of the
world what is coming?
Dark Moran ( stopping in his slow walk) :
What man is it asks me? Is it Fineen, son
of Cahair? What would you be doing
near Conor’s house and the blood between
you not dry?
Fineen : Surely, the blood between us will
be dry, for I have the love-kiss of Conor’s
daughter.
Dark Moran : You have the love-kiss of
Conor’s daughter, surely; but there is a
red sword between her and your bed.
Fineen : Surely, I know that it is like a
sword ; but maybe it is only a small word
with no edge. Will you tell me?
Dark Moran : I will not.
Bride: Och, dark man, you were kind to me
when I was a small child with no word at
all that I could say. Will you not tell us
for kindness this day, for I have a long
thought and a sqre heart?
Dark Moran : Why would you know? In
the yellow sunshine you go with singing
on your lips because it is dark. In the
IN THE YEAR TWO THOUSAND.
“ Ynas , in those days the women, worshippers
of a strange god who proceeded, accord-
ing to tradition, from Paris, did public
penance for their sins. They wore a
head-dress skewered on by steel pins,
their bodies were encased in a tightly-
laced jacket of steel and canvas. Their
outer dress was built so that they
hobbled in their walking, and they fol-
lowed the Chinese fashion of squeezing
the feet into tiny shoes, and they trod
upon darts six inches long instead of
upon their heels. The severity of the
religion which ordered all this brought
many to an early grave; but they
endured it with a noble fortitude.”
dark with no sunshine I go sorrowfully in
the bright light.
Bride ( softly ) : But you will tell us?
Dark Moran : Och, girl, with your sweet,
tongue and a touch on his old ragged
sleeve, you make a wise man foolish. Well.
I will tell you. Give me your two hands.
He takes the right hand of Fineen and the
left hand of Bride, and his voice falls away
to a dreamy monotone.
A tall man will go over the bog by a
crooked path in the dark night....and
come to the land of Tir-nan-0g... .where
men are always young and the hair has no
grey in it... .where there is peace and
quiet and very good sleep.... where one
day is the same as another, and no thought
of any hurt.
Bride : Och, it is a good word, surely. And
will I see him there and be with him, dark
man ?
Hark Moran (after a long pause) : You
will surely see him with the quiet of that
land on his face.... and take him in your
white arms....l can see no more.
A HARD BUMP.
GRANDMA : “Look, Alcibiades, your new little brother !”
AL. : “Where did he come from?"
GRANDMA : “Straight from Heaven."
AL. : “ Cripes, did he bounce much?"
Fixeen : It is a good word. Now there is
no sword that we should fear.
Bkide : It is a word of great kindness, dark'
man.
Dark Moi:an : I will be going on now; for
the night will soon come.
Bride: It is the good thoughts will go with
you. dark man.
Fixeen : There are clouds coming up the
long sky, Bride. It will be rain this night.
Bride : It will be rain and the darkness
coming very soon. Heart, you must vo
now; for it is a long road over the bog, and
the way hard to find.
Fineen : Och, Bride, how would I leave you?
Purely I know the road with no finding at
all?
Bride : It is few men know it. Fineen ; and
some that think they do are drowned deep.
Fineen : How can I be drowned and me
going the bright journey to Tir-nan-og,
where my love will take me in her white
arms ?
A long and 'piercing scream comes from the
wide ho gland.
Bride: Heart, it is the Shee! Och, Fineen,
I have a fear that is cold round me like a
mist on a dark morning.
Fineen : Surely the Shee has more to cry
for than one living man and him going to
the good land.
Bride: Och, heart, I am afraid. It is dark
and you must go away quickly. The
black bog is full of death and the sword
of my father is on the road from Carriclc
Sloan. Go now very soon. Surely the
wise man would know and him saying
you were to see the bright shore of Tir-
nan-og.
Fineen : Tir-nan-og or Rathinnis, it is only
good to be in your white arms.
Act 111.
The same place at the same season. Time:
Sixty years later.
Bride, an old, tottering woman, with hair
thin and white under her shawl, is walking
in the garden. Kathleen and Maire stand
a little distance apart. From the hog helou:
where the men are cutting the turf comes
the sound of voices.
Bride : It is a long way to Tir-nan-og and
a long way to come back for me. Fineen
would not forget. Och, no, he will surely
come. It was the word of the wise man
that he would come; and he will be here
surely very soon, for it is the spring of
the year and there is blossom on the new
trees that I set where the old were dead.
Och, no, he will not forget. It is good,
heart, to be where men are always young
and the hair has no grey in it....where
there is peace and quiet and very good
sleep.... where one day is the same as
another and no thought of any hurt. Och,
no, he will not forget. It is to be my two
white arms round him; for the wise man
told us, and him dark and seeing his way
with a stick.
Maire : It is the way of her always when
it is spring and the blossom is on the
tree; but she is weak now and very old
and we are told to keep a very good
watch of her; for she might soon be dying
and going out where the mists are and
the long lights between the darkening and
the stroke of day.
Kathleen : It is surely the wonder of the
world that she is a lone woman witli no
husband at all, and she the mistress, with
the strong men doing her bidding. Och,
why would she never marry to have grown
childer of her own to comfort her when
the years are going down?
Maire : It was something when she was
young, maybe.
Kathleen : It was something when she was
young, surely; for her talk is queer and
many’s the time I hear her going on about
love and sweet ways and some tall man
to come back to her. It is always the
same talk.
Maire : She is maybe not right in her wits,
the way she’s growing too old, and her
weak and not able to walk far.
Kathleen : Och, no. ’Tis not wrong in
her head she is at all. It is the men come
to talk to her and she knows all and
orders all. Is it a cow lost on the moun-
tains or six sheep to kill for the spears?
She will tell them what to do. Have you
not heard them saying in the rath that she
was a bolder man than her father with
better knowledge and no fear at all?
Maire: Whisht! She will be speaking
again. Her face is always to the bog.
What would she be seeing there?
Bride : It is a long way, surely, and it was
a very long time to wait; but he will
come to me. Heart, it was a black world
when you went away; and you were there
between the bog and the sword with the
Shee calling and the light gone. It is
better now, heart; for there is no blood
on any spear and it is a quiet place for
the childer to play in and the decent
people to go up and down. I would not
let them fight for a bare hill that would
not feed two goats, and they laughed and
were friends again. And now they forget
that there were any wars in the world.
Och, it was a hard way for a woman ; but
I knew you would come....Och, heart,
but the time was very long. . . .
Her voice quavers off and she ivalks away
through the trees and comes slowly back.
Kathleen : What is it she said at all about
a long time? Surely it is a hard thing
to be old and never to have been a man’s
wife.
Maire : What are the men doing down in
the bog? There is great talking; and
now they are coming this way through
the bushes.
Bride : Maybe he will come to-day. It is a
good day and he would come quickly over
the bog; for the water is drained and
there is a fine road. I have the box full,
ready to go away; and I will not keep
him waiting. Och. Tir-nan-og must be
very far down in the west; but he will
not grow old or tired. It is for a woman
waiting too long to get a little tired —but
his hair will not be grey....
Kathleen : Surely, my heart is sore for
her ; and no word that we can say.
Maire : Och, look ! They are coming up to
this place. What is it at all? Look. She
has seen them. She is' going to meet
them.
Up through the bushes a number of men
come bearing something which looks like a
body ivrapped in a great plaid. A turf-
getter salutes Bride with lifted hand and
comes forward.
Turf-getter : ’Tis a young man. mistress,
dug out of the black turf. There is no
hurt on him; and there is no man can
give him a name. Maybe it is long since
he was drowned; for the bog keeps its
dead whole for a thousand years.
Maire : Tis the wonder of the world !
Kathleen: Whisht, whisht! She is going
to it. Och, there is something cold at my
heart.
Bride goes to the body. One of the turf-
getters reverently removes the cloth from the
face. Bride looks into the dead eyes of
Fineen.
Bride ( very slowly) : A tall man will go
over the bog by a crooked path in the dark
night. . . .and come to the land of Tir-nan-
og.. . . where men are always young and
the hair has no grey in it. . . .where there
is peace and quiet and a very good sleep
. . . .where one day is the same as another
and no thought of any hurt. . . .you will
surely see him with the quiet of that land
on his face. . . .and take him in your white
arms....
The old woman stands for a moment with
an ecstatic look in her eyes. Then, with a
little joyous cry, she falls with her arms
extended over the body.
DAVID MCKEE WRIGHT.
The Lifer.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
JOHN KNOWLES scuffled across the
flat, rocky plain country between
Clunes and Smeaton, a tall, gaunt
man with a sparse new growth of whisker
looking like flakes of rust against the pallor
of his limp cheeks.
At the front door of the small, rough, stone
house fronting the creek, and standing open
to all the winds of the world in the treeless
expanse, he paused nervously, one foot on the
step. Taking a large handkerchief from
his hat he wiped his pale baldness with a
tremulous hand. Then he pulled himself
together in the manner of a man resolutely
assuming a burden, and knocked slowly and
deliberately. There was no response. With
the same exaggeration of effort he knocked
again. He waited a minute, listening, then
seated himself on the step, and once more
resorted to the large handkerchief, wiping
head, face, neck, even hands, though the day
was cool.
For an hour he sat thinking. Once in a
way he expressed a sentence out loud. “They
lied to me!” he said. “They were all liars!”
Then rising suddenly he pushed the door
open and entered.
“Hello, mum!” he said. “Old girl,” he
repeated in a lower voice. “Ah, you’re glad
—glad, after all! I knew you would be. I
said to myself you would be after what- —
what I’ve gone through. It has been Hell,
and Hell, and more Hell. And I’m home. ...
and you’re glad. God bless you, old wife.”
John Knowles leaned his arm against the
wall, hid his face in it and cried.
When self-control returned in some meas-
ure he spoke to his wife again.
“The kiddy? Where’s Benny? I want
to see him. In his cradle. Lord love him !
Sleeping with his old doll —the same old doll.
God, it’s good to be out, it’s good to be
home!”
He took off his coat and hung it on a nail
behind the rough kitchen door, and seating
himself on a biock by the hob, extended his
thin fingers before the empty fireplace and
shuddered.
His voice, when he spoke to his wife once
more, was low and • monotonous; it told of
long years of dull suffering.
THE FASHION OF THE HOUR.
ERIC : “Is that dress the latest ?”
ELIZABETH: “Oh, yes! I only put it on half
an hour ago!"
When night came down he was still talking
in the same desolate way, wearily, without a
trace of passion, and his talk was all of
waste and dreariness.
John Knowles had been home three days
when Crichton up the creek told Parsons,
and the two men strolled across to the old
stone house. They found Knowles sitting on
the block by the cold fireplace, extending his
thin fingers and talking to his wife. There
had been rain over-night, and the man was
wet—because there was no roof on the house.
And the cold reached him because holes had
been knocked in the walls, and the window-
panes and their frames were gone.
When the visitors had been standing in
the doorway a few minutes Knowles arose.
“Won’t you come in?” he said. “Take a
chair. I don't quite remember •> t ou. I’m
John Knowles. I've....l've had bad luck.
But that’s all over now. and I’ve come home
to my wife and child. This is my dear wife.
Here to welcome me. I knew they lied to
me. I’ve known all along they lied. She
was here —and the babj', too. God bless
her ! God bless her !”
He clutched his face in his hands and
wept: and when Crichton and Parsons left
ten minutes later he was still sobbing.
They walked into Clunes and told the
police about the man in the ruined house.
“Ah,” said the old sergeant. “Back is
he? And his missus arid baby dead fifteen
years!”
EDWARD DYSON.


m
p
m
m
A
f
Abdullas aid us undismayed
To cope with 100° in the shade.
Tlie soothing, refreshing, stimulating influence of
Abdullas will prevent you from worrying, and sur-
round you in an atmosphere of content.
Guaranteed British hand-made.
Egyptian, Turkish and Virginian.
Get some for Christmas.
I—A
■
CIGARETTES.
The Cigar
that satisfies
There is no Christmas gift that
would please a friend more than a
box of Figaros. Their superb quality
delights the most exacting of con-
noisseurs.
Every smoker needs
some at Christmas time.
SPECIALS
THORNE'S
WHISKY
“INCOMPARABLE"
TBLACASOU
BuxASOwai
Distillery i
3i»?!S§filL
The spirit of good fellowship prevails where
Thorne’s is used to honor the sentiments of
Christmas and New Year.
Produced for over 80 years at Glenlivet,
the traditional home of Scotch Whisky at its best.
yx*ta
woaDismizicr
up**
m
LIOSI


Cuts.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE town lay somnolent under the
rays of the afternoon sun. The
roads, made of white quartz, sent up
a blinding glare, causing the distance to swim
in waves of heated atmosphere. No evidence of
human activity showed in that vicinity,
given over to tin-roofed cottages hidden
among dusty green trees.
From the brick sclioolhouse alone arose
a busy hum, like the sound of swarming
bees. This battered edifice stood in a play-
ground worn bald by the ant-like activity of
children. A whiff of vitiated air came from
its open windows, depressing the mind in its
suggestion of humanity given over to the
stress of labor in that slumbering township.
From the infant classes came a doleful
chanting, punctuated by the sharp notes of
teachers’ voices raised in tones of exaspera-
tion. The sixth class, composed of alter-
nate rows of boys and girls, was ruled by
the spirit of discontent. The long, bare
room, designed, it seemed, with some • fixed
intention of ugliness, presented no other
decorations than the deadly monotony of
maps. The air was full of motes that
made golden bars from floor to windows.
Over the class hung an oppressive odor of
humanity, common to the young of the
human species that sweat unduly in their
clothes.
The whole class squirmed and wriggled in
its hard seats, divided between languor and
a malignant activity that sought to bridge
the interminable boredom of waiting for the
hour of release. Nothing but that benevo-
lent stupidity that passes for human wis-
dom could permit an adult world to herd its
progeny into a brick barn on such a day.
For on such a day the small human body, in
which is hidden the tadpole soul of child-
hood. has no power of resistance against the
discomforts of the flesh.
What madness to concern oneself with
long division or the boundaries of Asia
Minor when shirts stick to the back like
plasters composed of prickly hair; when
collars, those deadly inventions, erect them-
selves about one’s ears; when trousers are
liljed with a perpetual itch as if one sat on
nettles!
Perish learning on such a day, when one
should be dabbling in creeks, seated under
culverts, climbing in shady trees, or sprawling
on the cool oilcloth of the passage at home !
The teacher, a tall woman with the sexless
maturity of many middle aged school mis-
tresses, who acquire the authoritative air of
matrons while remaining the sterile cus-
todians of other women’s children, kept
glancing up from her book with contracted
brows. Duty demanded some show of author-
ity ; but the heat had robbed her of that per-
sonal magnetism which requires a display of
“A persistent vision of the back of Hogan's head and a sympathetic in-
clination of the heads of those about him, suggested that some unseemly
attention was being paid to the girls who sat behind."
energy to be effective. She sighed bitterly,
and went on mechanically with her lesson.
A small boy, indicated with the cane, rose
and droned out from his book some sentences
of a speech on political liberty, staggering
helplessly about among those gigantic sen-
tences like an ant among blades of grass.
The smaller boys in the front row, being
immediately under the teacher's eye, alone
preserved some appearance of ord§r. Those
in the back seats, alive to her relaxed atten-
tion, gave themselves up to the grateful
relief of small offences.
Peter, who sat at the end of the third row.
below the elder girls, found great mental
relaxation in boring out a monkey nut with
his knife. Behind him the girls kept up an
incessant fluttering and whispering, taking
turns to plait each other’s hair.
As far as Peter was capable of classifying
this species, there were but two varieties—
those who wore clean linen and curly hair,
and those —not to make an unseemly dis-
tinction in the matter of linen—whose hair
Avas straight. At present Peter had no use
for either variety, eyeing them from afar, as
from a peak in Darien, fearing them, as one
fears the unknown, yet admitting in secret a
thrill of emotion for their mystery; that
spark of Columbus hidden in the hearts of
all men, ,
Next to Peter sat a dark, lank haired lad
with a snaky expression and a sullen eye; a
lad who, in the French phrase, clearly
belonged to the dangerous class. Peter was
sycophantic to this youth, knowing him for
one who took as much pleasure in inflicting
minor tortures as a median-al monk.
Under the promising title of Michael
Hogan, this lad was notable as one who
would trip you up suddenly, who would flip
your ears with elastic, who would wing you
with swan shot in the act of bending, who
would sneak your alleys, who would cut
your kite strings, and who —a deadly evi-
dence of criminality—would fix a pin in
his toe-plates in order to puncture your
football.
This sneaking fellow would also fight like
a demon, so that one could not have him on
the score of cowardice, which should in jus-
tice be the prime weakness of your bully. As
fate, not favor, had placed Peter next him
in school, there was nothing for it but a con-
stant exercise of those courtesies that are
thrust upon the feeble, whose complacent
smiles are but the heritage of past oppres-
sion, worn to disguise the fear of blows.
There was expense attached to this associa-
tion, too.; for though one readily accorded
words of admiration and patted backs indus-
triously, slate pencils, alleys, tops, whip-
cord, dead lizards, birds’ eggs, bullseyes,
brandy-snaps and whistle buttons are coins
of the realm, and hard indeed to part with.
The afternoon’s discomfort had excited
this offshoot of the tribe of Hogan to a
special malevolence. For some time he was
extremely active with a knife, whittling
desks, slicing- books, cutting pen-handles and
boring holes in collars. Paper, chewed to
pulp, he spat through a tube into the hair of
those in front, where it stuck like glue. Peter,
invited to inspect a spider under the desk,
had his nose punched into a rotten tomato,
an act incompatible even with the basest
assumption of friendship. In the sensual joy
of destruction this bandit slit the bottom of
Milky Woolen’s bag, in expectation of seeing
his books fall out later. The unfortunate
Milky, whose perpetually dazed expression
was due to his habit of reading books of
adventure, endured with Peter tin?' martyr-
dom of a seat next to Michael Hogan. There,
like any paleface, he accepted his daily pom-
mellings with resignation, consoled by
dreams of Red Indian revenge. But even
the feeblest paleface has his moments of
rebellion, and some prolonged nose-tweaking
stirred him at length to a scuffling protest.
The teacher, roused to a fictitious display
of authority, rapped sharply on her desk.
“If you two boys can’t behave you’ll go to
the office,” she said.
This synonym for an official application of
the rod failed to disturb the equanimity of
Michael Hogan. He rejoiced in a pair of
hard hands, the perquisite of hod-carrying
ancestors. The teacher, with compressed
brows, went on with the lesson, permitting
the subdued scuffling of the class to be re-
sumed. The heat had relaxed her to the point
of indifference, and she was content to tide
over the afternoon without the exertion of
commanding order. But a disturbing sense
of., duty neglected preoccupied her vaguely
with the boy Hogan, whose vicinity, she was
aware, seethed with a secret corruption.
Scufflings and shoving, lolling backwards
against desks she passed in deference to her
own physical discomfort; but presently a
persistent vision of the back of Hogan’s head
and a sympathetic inclination of the heads of
those about him, suggested that some un-
seemly attention was being paid to the girls
who sat behind There was a reflection of
these attentions in the behavior of the girls
in the shape of gigglings, squirmings and
mouths pursed into round O’s of amazement,
As witnessed further to the undesirable
nature of these exchanges there was the con-
duct of the boy Peter Dickson, who exhibited
undeniable evidences of secret exultation,
squirming in his seat like a hooked worm,
and. under pressure of holding in the emotion
of ecstasy, going repeatedly purple in the
face. The boy Woolens, too, looked on with
an expression abandoned to amazement,
gaping in Hogan's face like one who doubts
the prerogative of his ears,
The two girls in the corner, coming under
Peter’s classification of curly-haired and its
consequent complaisance to male attentions,
held up exercise-books in order to giggle
securely behind them. But next to these was
seated a specimen of the straight-haired
variety ; and. as a further evidence of social
unimportance, the hair was red. And this
hair, to make matters worse, was dragged
back from her forehead by a round comb, un-
necessai ily calling attention to a small inqui-
sitive face, sharp, shrewd and vindictive,
wearing already an expression of precocious
rectitude.
She listened, peered, her underlip drawn
in with pious horror, and suddenly shot up a
hand rigid with the intention of its message,
“Please. Miss,” she shrilled, “Mick Hogan’s
swearing.”
The explosion of this scandal stirred the
class to a thrill of exultation. Gratitude for
a release from boredom beamed in every
countenance turned expectantly on Michael
Hogan. From his immediate neighborhood
there was a perceptible shiver of repugnance,
Peter and Milky fell into attitudes of panic-
stricken rectitude, folding their arms. Those
cravens, so lately entranced at his delinquen-
cies, wished to renounce all further connec-
tion with him. •
Hogan, after a vicious effort to pinch the
informer’s legs, turned his lowering eye upon
the teacher, apprehensive and defiant. The
“Feeble glances of appeal to the criminal Hogan betrayed that ruffian in
the act of stealthily applying a fist to eyes, nose, mouth and chin."
teacher, repressing an ejaculation of annoy-
ance, stood up, The necessity of making a
public inquisition into this affair caused her
voice to rise with a sharp note of irritation.
“What’s the meaning of this, Hogan?” she
exclaimed, rapping her desk.
“I never sez nothing,” answered Hogan,
pumping up some unsuccessful indignation.
"Please, Miss, he did. Miss. Please,
Miss, swearing,” chanted the informer.
The teacher frowned, finding a difficulty
in pursuing an inquiry into this delicate
matter.
“Who elffe heard this boy swearing?” she
demanded at length.
A judicious silence rewarded this leading
question. Certainly no boy in that class
was anxious to earn the distinction of
Hogan’s displeasure in answering it. The
teacher, with half-hearted insistence, put
the question to a more personal issue. Had
Peter Dickson heard this boy swearing?
Peter Dickson, with exemplary haste, vowed
that he had heard nothing to affront his
ears. William "Woolens, too, had been
afflicted with a refined deafness. Dolly
Smith, Stella Jones —emphatic head-shakes
repudiated the assumption that those ladies
would permit themselves to hear language
of an undesirable nature. The teacher,
bothered, was on the point of ordering
Hog an to stand forth, when she saw. re-
flected in the faces before her, the apprehen-
sive message of a fresh presence—a
presence that by long practice had acquired
the art of sudden and secret appearance.
Every arm in the class folded itself
mechanically. Every back stiffened. Every
face assumed an expression of cringing
humility. By these evidences was announced
the presence of Black Sammy, the head-
master. To the class he was a vision of
dread authority, powerful and vindictive.
To anybody else he was a middle-aged man
of slovenly appearance, sallow, dyspeptic,
warped by a petty vision of the importance
of his office, and a trifle dehumanised, as
most schoolmasters become, through being
invested with powers of tyranny in a world
of infants. He stood for some moments
behind the teacher, his back humped, his
head bent, his eyes, bilious and sinister,
travelling over the class, enjoying the terror
>f his presence, which, like his stealthy
tread, was the effect of art acquired by
years of practice.
The teacher, disturbed, like the class, by
the presence of the supreme authority, hesi-
tated, unable to proceed with the inquiry.
As a reasonably humane creature she had
no wish to hand Hogan over to the grip of
the law on such a hanging matter, and
Black Sammy, quick to observe these evi-
dences of weakness, ranged alongside
Gxppct&ntly.
“What’s the trouble here, Miss Todd?”
he demanded.
The teacher, hesitating on the verge of
subterfuge, gave in weakly.
“They say the boy Hogan’s been swear-
ing.” she said unhappily.
Black Sammy stiffened at the word of
crime. His stealthiness departed. He
became stern, upright, implacable. Here,
too, was expressed relief from boredom and
the heat.
“Hogan.” he rasped, “come with me to
the office.”
Hogan. ,in spite of his horny hands,
obeyed this mandate with extreme reluct-
ance. He crawled, rather than rose, from
his seat, and made a sort of snaky pro-
gress to the door, followed by the entranced
gaze of the class. His departure in advance
of Black Sammy, “like one who knows a
fearful shape doth close behind him tread,”
gave the class over to exultant speculation.
Peter was so uplifted that he made a' re-
mark to the girls behind. “I bet he cops
it.” he said.
“We never told, did we?” said the small
girls, anxious for self-congratulation.
“She did, though,” said Peter, indicating
the informer. “Tell-tale Tit.” he added,
disposing his features to express a lofty
scorn. The red-haired girl, conscious of the
purity of her motives, stuck a tongue out
at him. An interruption from the. front
cut short these just reprisals.
“Peter Dickson and Willie Woolens,”
said the teacher, in response to an emis-
sary at the door, “are wanted in the office.”
Pale with apprehension, those witnesses
went forth to the place of dread. Before a
table in that chamber stood tin l criminal
Hogan, scowling darkly. Behind the table
sat Black Sammy, rigid with righteousness,
Behind Black Sammy stood a cupboard,
stored, the legend said, with carefully-
selected canes. The witnesses stood quak-
ing. given over to a mediaeval justice whose
instrument was fear.
“Now, then,” said the master, “what did
you hear this boy Hogan say to the girls?”
lie laid his cane well in view, a promise
of pain to witnesses reluctant to convict.
Peter gulped, inarticulate. Milky, in un-
conscious criticism of Black Sammy’s jus-
tice, polished feverish hands in preparation
for the cane. Feeble glances of appeal to
the criminal Hogan betrayed that ruffian
in the act of stealthily applying a fist to
eyes, nose, mouth and chin, a threat of what
would follow the treachery of an exposure.
Hard indeed is their fate who are forced to
heroism between the deep sea and the Devil.
“I’ll give you one minute to answer!”
said Black Sammy, taking out his watch.
The minute fled, filled with the feverish
polishing of hands, and the aloof strum-
ming of Black Sammy’s fingers on the table.
The watch closed with a snap, and the
Avenger arose, immense, implacable. At
the point of the cane they were given one
more chance of craven submission.
“You heard this bov Hogan swearing?”
By this statement one was damned to
punishment.
“Hold out!”
Squirming, his face abandoned to terror,
Peter held out his hand to torture, as
heretofore martyrs tendered a member to
the flames.
Four was the number of strokes judged
the portion for a reluctant witness, laid on
with the skill of one who, like Mr. Venus,
loved his Art, and knew' how to practise
his Art. Agony detached Peter from the
affairs of life into a mere hopping, squirm-
ing, bowing, bending, homunculus with two
red-hot hands. But something undignified
in the w*ay of attitudes may be excusea
when the soul is purple with anguish, for
only by such antics may one hope to avert
the indignity of tears.
Peter arrived in the passage to find him-
self miraculously saved from such an
unmanly exposure. In his astonishment at
this evidence of his powers of endurance he
experienced a thrill of vainglory, almost a
compensation for the stinging of his hands.
His return to the classroom, therefore,
was inspired to represent one enduring
agony with reckless hardihood. The drama
of his entrance was apparent —hands
tucked under armpits, the stomach con-
tracted, the lips muttering and the brow
dark with defiance.
To inquiring glances he held up two
fingers, in witness of the strokes received.
To those near at hand he exposed honorable
weals. To the small girls, anxious for
details, he permitted himself some lyrical
extravagance.
“Told him to bag his head,” said Peter
majestically.
The appearance of Milky gave some color
to Peter’s assumption of hardihood, for that
witness made his entrance dissolved in grief,
a mere totteriug wreck.
The prosecution, it seemed, had not yet
exhausted its list of witnesses. That the
crime of Michael Hogan might be subjected
to a rigorous inquiry, there came a message
from the office demanding the presence of
the chief accuser and her immediate neigh-
bors.
These, too, departed in a flutter of appre-
hension, while the class exulted, enchanted
at the promise of stirring events. Perhaps
these females would be beaten as a novelty.
At least punishment in the grand manner
would descend upon the criminal of the
hour, and thrills of emotion ran up and
down the spines of the more timorous at
this thought, for these scholastic beatings
appeal to the primitive minds of children
as sacrificial cruelties appealed to their
primitive ancestors. The teacher fussed
about, going through the routine of the
lesson to keep herself in countenance. At
intervals she glanced at her watch, calcu-
lating the moment of release.
But the crime of Michael Hogan was to
receive the acknowledgment of a public
chastisement. The door opened, admitting
the three witnesses, round-eyed and awe-
stricken. There followed the criminal
Hogan, slouching with his feet to show
defiance. Behind stalked Black Sammy, the
judge turned hangman. He lashed the desk
to insure attention, an unnecessary pre-
(Continued on page 62 J


I !
.
1
Vv'/,
I
; &
m
m
WM,
m
wm
m
mm
im
&
kMM
IS
m
*w
Wfi
■ >; *
, > ■:
SI
MS
•gm
’
v.
■? ; "
m,
a» a
f
# .
l§Si
kgtitj ■
mm
gtf&i
m*
ml
mmm
i m
yr
m I
Wm
m
■
/”N
W®
% ■&
m
mhm
k
v
-.-. v
. .... I I -:
.4H
v&
YiKiWk
WM
■■•
m
J-
'■'■ •£!
if
The Ripht Track


caution, for every face, oily with sycophantic
meekness, looked rigidly forward —serfs in
the presence of their tribal Baron.
The indictment was pronounced in terms
common to schoolmasters indulging in the
vanity of moral grande’ur.
This boy, it said, stood convicted of the
unpardonable sin of using bad language—
vile ’ language; language of a depravity un-
paralleled. Such a boy as this polluted the
social atmosphere; such a boy was a moral
danger to the school. Such a boy, in set
terms, was likened to a cesspool, : a leper, a
pariah and a perverter of youth.
The class listened, dumfounded at this
oratory, which they accepted as the wisdom
of an adult world. They saw the boy Hogan
magnified into a creature of evil, saw him
going from bad to worse, from crime to
crime, ending at last on the gallows, the
associate of criminals and outcasts.
One shuddered, said the indictment, to
think what would become of such a boy;
but in the meanwhile, in the interests of
public decency, one could at least make an
example of him.
“Michael Hogan, hold out!”
Michael Hogan held out. Certainly. The
race of hodcarriers had endowed him to
some purpose, or else there is something
heroic hidden in the souls of such a race.
Forty cuts he received, and those by the
hand of an expert. Without abating a jot of
his rebellious scowl, obdurate and stubborn,
he endured this lashing, holding out his
hands to it with the indifference of a
machine.
There is no satisfaction to be got in
beating such a boy. One might as well
beat a bag of bran. To gratify the beater’s
dignity there must be bendings and squirrn-
ings and bellowings of contrition. Black
Sammy began to lose something of his
inspired integrity. His hair became ruffled.
A scowl replaced the aloofness of his frown.
His black whiskers twitched, showing the
dog teeth. The cane, that instrument of
justice, became the weapon of a more human
malevolence.
The class watched this exhibition with
entranced attention, yielding to those
pleasurable thrills of excitement that caused
people a hundred years ago to look on at
hangings. The teacher fumbled nervously
with her cuffs and collar, countenancing
with difficulty a spectacle at which she
lacked the courage to protest. At forty
cuts Black Sammy’s arm went suddenly
limp, exploded of its energy. He stood
glowering at this obdurate wretch who sul-
lenly defrauded Justice of her legitimate
ends.
“Now will you use obscene language
again?” he demanded, to cover the hiatus
of temporary exhaustion.
“He gripped the sacred integrity of that gentleman's leg and fleshed his
teeth in it.”
Hogan scowled. There was certainly
nothing of contrition in his snaky glance,
which remained fixed on Black Sammy’s
fret.
The question, repeated, succeeded only in
freshly inflaming the rage of Justice. Black
Sammy gripped his obdurate wretch by the
collar, intending to beat submission into
lum at any cost.
It was an unwise action, for no Judge
may with impunity descend to personal com-
bat with a felon in the dock.
At the point of the cane Hogan was held
by the long arm of cbnstituted authority;
but this laying .on of hands admitted an
equality that demolished the invulnerability
of the master’s high office.
At Iris touch the criminal went suddenly
bersark. a creation of demoniac energy,
active as an enraged ferret. The impact of
his bullet head took Black Sammy in the
stomach; he gripped the sacred integrity of
that gentleman’s leg and fleshed his teeth in
it. And getting his claws hooked in the
rim of the master’s trousers, he tugged
frantically, causing Black Sammy to dance
like a crane on one leg.
Of all men your schoolmaster is most
vulnerable to an attack upon his dignity.
Upon its assumption is built the whole edi-
fice of scholastic authority. He may not,
for instance, claim the prescience of divine
knowledge if forced to dance upon one leg;
and when nothing but a pair of good but
threadbare trousers hang between him and
an exposure of his imperfect humanity, his
plight is indeed desperate.
The tension of that moment, while even
destiny held its breath, was cut short by
the sharp, rending sound of torn cloth.
Dumfounded, the class looked on to see
the unholy miracle accomplished. The
master’s divinity had collapsed like a pricked
bladder. His trousers, designed to support
the menace of his omniscience, were but a
screen to hide from prying eyes a pair of
long, lank, hairy legs.
Black Sammy’s conduct in the face of
this disaster was an open confession of
ruined prestige. To be exact, he ran out of
the room trying to hold the remains of his
trousers together while dodging an inkpot
hurled by the demented Hogan. That crim-
inal, too, having accomplished the miracle
of defeating a grown man in combat, bolted
by the window. He fled in triumph, sur-
rounded by such haloes as desperadoes
wear, leaving his hat and reputation to the
sport of destiny.
After such a Roman festival, there was
no return to the boundaries of Asia Minor
and scholastic calm. The teacher, who had
witnessed the annihilation of Black Sammy
with feelings not to be divulged in the pres-
ence of scholars, gave up the job of restoring-
order and dismissed the class. Unholy
ecstasy marked this release from long sup-
pression. Such hooting, bounding and yell-
ing went on as must have penetrated to the
office, where Black Sammy sat in dark seclu-
sion, doing his best with pins to restore a
temporary dignity to his ruined divinity.
Conventions, those props of a humdrum
existence, are demolished in the trail of
great events. Behind a tree-guard Peter,
for the first time in his life, conversed at
ease with girls.
“Yer see his leg?” said Peter, purple with
exultation, hanging like a bat from the tree-
guard to facilitate a graceful carriage.
Absurd, this supposition that conversation
and the graces are difficult in the presence
of ladies. Intimacy is easy, when one has
an enchanting subject to discuss, and a con-
venient tree-guard to hang from like a bat.
“But we never told,” said the small girls
finally. “That girl Prodgers told.”
“Go on!” said Peter. “What’d she tell?”
“She never told,” said the small girl mys-
teriously, “she wrote it on a piece of paper.”
“What’d she write?” inquired Peter.
“We couldn’t tell you,” said the small
girls primly.
“Red ’ot!” said Peter.
As for Michael Hogan, that tearer of
trousers, he took a month’s holiday on his
own responsibility. Also, in contempt of
the weak assumption that a man may not
lift his hand to woman and still call him-
self honorable, he lay in wait for the ginger-
haired informer and beat her sorely with
his fists.
* * * *
The thumb-screw and the rack defeat their
end. Heresy burns but brighter in the
flames that consume the heretic. Morality,
thumping its tub. but calls attention to the
sin of reprobates, while punishment is ever,
like hot sauce, an appetising stimulant to
vice.
Memory at least is grateful to the race of
schoolmasters, who, in their innocence, beat
virtue out of us with the rod.
NORMAN LINDSAY.
Brain and Brawn.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
manager glanced thoughtfully from
I his overseer to the men.
"They won’t do a thing,” the overseer
was saying violently, “and they’re insolent
into the bargain —not in words as much as
in manner. Besides, the pair are infecting
the rest of the boys, and before we know
where we are they will all be out of hand.
A few strokes would take the nonsense out
of them.”
“I am not so sure that it would,” said
the manager. "Anyway, I have
no authority to punish them
that way, and they know it. ’
“But how are we to control
them?”
“That is a point a paternal
Government doesn’t explain,”
said the manager grimly. “But
we’ll see. Go back to your gang,
and leave the pair of them here.”
He watched the overseer strid-
ing over the flat-trimmed upper
surface of the tree-trunk which
served as bridge across the evil-
smelling, miry creek at the back
of the house. His thoughtful frown
deepened as he glanced back at the
pair. One was squat, ungainly,
brutish, of a curious whitish-
brown color. On his skin ran
narrow corrugations in beautifully
uniform, wavy lines equidistant
and dainty as delicate tracery.
Yet it was not tattooing of a high
order, but some obscure native
skin affection. He was a man
young in years, with a face like
some hideous mask, and the man-
ager pondered over the resemb-
lance. Suddenly it came to him.
The face grotesquely resembled
that of a blue-tongued lizard he
had killed in his garden down in
the outer suburb of Sydney. The resemb-
lance was distinct, even to the protruding
lower jaw with its wide mouth. The eyes
were curiously dim and distinctly reptilian.
'Che man looked at the manager even as
the blue-tongued lizard had done —without
expression, yet with reptilian intentness.
His companion was of an entirely different
type and remarkable even among the mixed
types composing the plantation labor force.
Ebony black of body, of the Buka race,
black as the true negro, flawless except for
the artificial cicatricing on arms and
cheeks, which had left embossed patterns
on the sable skin, he was slender and grace-
ful with early manhood. Almost soft, black
eyes shone in a face remarkable for its
beauty of form as for its undoubtedly high
intelligence. It was the face of the philo-
sopher. the thinker, the poet. His eyes
hung diffidently on the second button of the
manager’s white coat.
“Brain and brawn,” the manager said to
himself.
He recognised the combination : the intel-
ligence to plan, and the will to induce such
as Blue-tongue Lizard to carry out those
plans. He had intended to speak to these two.
but, looking at the lizard face, he knew
that words would be as surely wasted
on him as an appeal would be on the hand-
some ebonv Buka boy.
“Go back to your work,” he said quietly.
Even Lizard Face showed faint sur-
prise. Brain’s pleasant face betrayed no
emotion.
‘‘Yes, master, I go,’* he said obediently,
and turned into the well-worn track,
cutting an undulating ribbon through the
sweet-potato vines, up through the young
plantation to where the jungle was falling
under the slicing axes. The graceful
motions of his body swinging along the
track were followed by the ungainly
scrambling of his henchman.
The manager turned and walked slowly
towards the house. He looked at the
unpainted, uncomfortable structure with a
cynical smile on his lips. The smile
deepened as he thought of the furniture it
held : the two rough tables, the rickety bed-
stead-stretcher and the three broken-down
chairs. Yet, compared with the overseer’s
house —the little, unpainted, unlined wooden
hut with the concrete floor oozing unceasing
dampness—it was bloated luxury. Casually
he looked back to the now diminished
figures of Brain and Brawn striding along
among the dead stumps of jungle trees.
The smile died and his jaws set hard as liis
eyes fell'on the brown water in the evil
creek flowing within ten steps of the house.
On the foetid surface floated a pair of cup-
shaped objects not unlike the two halves
of a cocoanut. As he looked the objects
disappeared, leaving no trace of ripple.
Only when he stepped creekward did faint
oily undulations running through the thick
liquid betray that something living moved
beneath the surface. Though fully realising
the uselessness of it, the manager hurried
to the house for the rifle, but when he
stepped out upon the verandah all was
quiet. The water lay inky and without
motion as before.
“How long?” he asked himself. The pre-
vious night Tony, the foolish young dog, had
gone from quite close to the house. The
manager had awakened to the agonised
squealing. As he jumped out there came a
tremendous splash—and all was quiet once
more. Nothing could make him step off that
verandah after dark. He looked again and
thought he saw ripples up toward the
swamp, but he could not be sure. Anyway,
at that distance it was not worth wasting a
cartridge.
Between that slinking peril and the semi-
mutinous labor boys things were becoming
distinctly interesting. The manager’s eyes
wandered over the two iron-built stores,
across the roof of the overseer’s hut, to the
dreary galvanised-iron labor barracks on the
brink of the beach, so close that highest
spring-tides licked right up to the door—
built there to escape the crowding swamp at
the back. From the sordid picture he looked,
instinctively, across the haven to the low,
mangrove-covered islets a cable or two dis-
tant. He peered into the split in the nearest
islet, resembling the outlet of a narrow river.
Beyond, the surf snarled on the outer reefs,
showing fangs of white reaching up above
the rock. The islets he knew for the natural
haunt of the crocodiles. The pigs had dis-
covered it, too, when put there to pre-
vent their straying on the mainland. The
porkers disappeared and the tracks in .the
sand made the manner of their going evi-
dent. He looked keenly, but there was
nothing living visible, though a regular traffic
was known to go on from the islets to the
tidal creek at the back of his house. One of
THE CREATIVE POWER OF HABIT.
THE NEW HAND: "Got a cigarette gaper on
yer'T”
THE SILENT BOSS : (No remoras, but a
paper tendered.)
THE NEW HAND: “(Got any tobacco?”
THE SILENT BOSS : (Nothing said , but some
tobacco handed out.)
THE NEW HAND: “Got a match?”
THE SILENT BOSS (breaking the reserve of
years): “YOR 'aren't anything for
smokin’ but the 'abit, 'are you?”
the horrors he had shot from the verandah :
it had hung directly in front of the house,
showing only its eyes, watching the dogs
playing on the beach.
But immediate and most important was
the problem of Brawn and Brain. In the
evening the manager held a tool parade. The
boys were lined up along the beach. Before
each boy, at his feet, lay a pickaxe and a
formidable-looking knife. Here and there
an axe or a knife was missing. There; fol-
lowed the usual excuses —the tool had been
lost, or some other boy had taken it. Per-
haps it was true —Heaven only knew 1 They
were just as likely to have sold the tools to
some of the local natives —powerful, hatchet-
faced. glam-looking men, hideously painted
and bedecked with barbaric ornaments. Oyer
the lines hung a curious hush, something
menacing in quality, indefinable, yet almost
tangible.
The manager nodded in dismissal and
looked sombrely after the retreating men,
noting even then the varying shades of color,
the animal faces of most, the scaly bodies of
many, the evidences of obscure skin diseases.
Abruptly he turned.
“Bring your bed on to the verandah of the
house,” he told the overseer.
An expression of relief crept into the
man's pale, tense face, and he turned with
alacrity to his hut.
It may have been the earth tremor which
set the rickety residence swaying on
its high stilts that startled him; the
expectancy, too, may have helped. The
manager ever after asserted that a
presentiment of dire peril caused his
awakening. Cautiously he wriggled from
under the mosquito-netting, reaching as he
did so for his Winchester. As he crept noise
lessly to the verandah the chill damp drift
from" the inland mountains gripped him. He
paused instinctively and sniffed. Unmis-
takably his nostrils caught a faint odor of
musk floating on the night air. The monkey,
huddled under his blanket on the stringer-up
under the floor of the house, whimpered
softly.
With rifle ready for instant use the mana-
ger tiptoed to the flimsy picket gate barring
ineffectively access to the verandah. Glanc-
ing down over the gate he thought he saw.
erect on the lower step, a human form. He
had expected as much. Was it Brawn or
Brain? The rifle pointed direct at what he
took to be a human figure, and his finger
stiffened on the trigger, when a blood-freezing
yell, succeeded by a grunt of fear and agony,
arose from below. Upon it followed the noise
of swift motion and the sounds of claws rasp-
ing on the cement walk from the step to the
cook-house, mingling with a sickening crunch.
Rapid footsteps—then another sudden
scream, and the smell of musk became over-
powering.
“What in God’s name is happening?” The
tremulous query came from the overseer as he
left his bed with a rush that brought his
mosquito-net from its fastenings. “Are you
there?”
“Ttes.” said the manager quietly. He stared
into the damp, fever-laden night as two
great splashes in the creek by the cookhouse
interrupted him, and the cries ceased. “Yes."
he continued evenly when the noises had died.
“Things happened—and at the right moment.
The problem of Brain and Brawn is solved."
E. OSBOKNE.


dcdth/
m
JbL
“top notch*
7tJV
<scofcffWtysjfl
‘^^GmAiuuf/U
CV
Atotal
M'
TnxXAM&d*™
The “TOP NOTCH” Scotch.
“ KING GEORGE IV.”
WHISKY.
A Uniform Standard of Quality.
r
M
I-.
'rs u
r
v//sm.
%
m
st.
mwk
f
h./s/s
m
A,
Ml
6M4.
m
SSNJR9
*b
V
-J -H.C
41
Huge Wool Clipt/
ARE ASSURED BY USING
li
n
An Arsenical
Dip of highest
possible qual-
ity, and the
equal of the
best Dip ever
imported
PROCURABLE
ALL STORES
POWDER SHEEP DIP
Made in Australia by
A. VICTOR LEGGO Sc CO. Melbourne - Sydney - Brisbane
eJ


The Self-respecting Typiste.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE merchant cast a longing eye
Toward his new typewriter;
Nice girl was she, discreetly shy ;
No hand than hers was whiter.
He hinted at his base intent,
And ogles with his hints were blent;
He thought her silence spelt consent —
The blighter !
He brought red roses fresh and sweet
And sought a kiss in payment;
Sm- -rushed the blossoms with her feet —
Of course she knew what they meant.
Like uiie that’s wounded to the core
And feels quite naturally sore.
She asked: “What do you take me for/”
lie spoke of petticoats and frocks,
The giddy, gay old geeser!
lie offered jujubes in a box,
And then proposed to squeeze her.
The maid evaded all his tries,
Whilst anger, mingled with surprise.
Flashed from her pair of azure eyes—
The freezer!
The merchant, whose commercial cares
Outweighed his tender passion,
Had not the time for laying snares
In a seductive fashion.
Upon the girl he turned his back;
Since she resisted his attack
The legal penalty was “sack.”
The maiden proud, with tilted chin,
His muttered curses scorning,
Departed from that man of sin
With one month’s wage —for “warning.”
The chief accountant, shrewd but meek,
Thought: “Surely, with that fine physique
She might have stayed another week!
She must have given him some cheek
This morning.”
Fair Prudence, speaking of the beast
Who’d hoped so soon to win her,
Said to her chum : “He might at least
Have asked me out to dinner.
When men have wicked ends to gain
They ought to plead and plead in vain,
And buy one oysters and champagne.
“The creature treated me as though
I were a stupid novice—
A little lamb, prepared to go
And spoon him in his office;
A silly goose, devoid of guile,
Who’d ‘fall a victim to his smile’
Before I’d made him yearn a while.”
Recalling scenes of gilded vice
In modern melodrama.
Fair Prudence thought it would be nice
Were she a mothlike charmer
To whom an ardent lover brings
Rich gifts of diamonds and things,
Ere yet the flame can scorch her wings,
And harm her.
HEAVEN.
THE PATIENT: “It seems hard to be taken off, as it were, just as one has learned to
enjoy life, so to speak!”
THE CONSORER : “ Well, you're going to a very decent place, I believe —cheerful sur-
roundings, good company, gold plentiful, hot and cold water laid on, trams pass
the door, musical society, change of programme daily."
’Tis truly said that typing jobs
Are cruel work, in one sense.
Some girls are sport for brutal snobs
Who have not any conscience,
Whilst such as can their distahce keep
From pigs who want them on the cheap
Are sacked maybe, and left to weep.
Contempt is cast on all the rest,
The rude world rates them lowly;
But clever girls still do their best
To keep their Sex-name holy;
No maid, whose boss would trust betray,
Should let herself be led astray
In aught but an expensive way—
A restaurant, romantic way—
And slowly.
VICTORIA.
EDMUND FISHER .
Unlimited Liability.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A COMPANY is the villain of the piece,
and a chartered company at that. It
is hard to bring its misdeeds home to
a company. Charge a clerk with its misde-
meanors and he refers you to his superior
officer. His superior officer acts merely
under orders of the Board. The Board has
its duty to perform to its shareholders, and
these last are a vast, amorphous body whom
it is well-nigh impossible to bring under any
whip.
There have been chartered companies
before. For all their fine speeches they are
pioneers, out shamelessly for profit, in new
country. They serve their turn, going just
as far as is worth their while. So long as
Progress foots the same road as Profit they
are all for Progress. But, in consideration
of dividends, the profit must be immediate.
So they tap the trunks of the old trees,
planting no new ones; skipping out of the
way with their interest in their pockets
before the crash comes.
Now the theatre for our action was pre-
pared some thirty-three years ago, when two
worthy European merchants acquired from
a decrepit, nearly-banlcrupt native sultan
despotic rights over a tract of country com-
prising some 30,000 square miles; a
territory as large as Ireland, full of rivers
and high mountains and horrid rumors;
which vast country they proposed to ex-
ploit by means of a company formed in
London. The dear old lady with savings to
invest and the rapacious Cockney specula-
tor hastened to get a share in the romantic
and audacious venture. An executive of
high-minded and intelligent citizens took up
with confidence the task of administering at
a distance of 10.000 miles the affairs
of a country they had never seen; while
the naked savage, whose fate was thus
curiously decided, spat, and retired deeper
into his primeval jungle.
On this rich soil they played seriously at
government. They built railways where
they were not needed; they erected tele-
graph lines, and issued artistic postage
stamps with pictures on them of animals
which had become extinct in the first years
of their occupation. They succeeded in
paying small dividends.
Our chief actor upon this broad stage
conies of that good Anglo-Eastern stock
that has sent pioneers to breed pioneers in
the very forefront of the Empire’s march.
He was born on a river steamboat during the
dry monsoon, and his mother, though sorely
shaken, survived his birth. Paterson, his
father, was in those early days the com-
pany’s sole representative and administra-
tor. The popping of bullets —for there were
native troubles —greeted his young ears,
tickling them mightily. He “went home”
early, had as much schooling as could not
by hook or crook be avoided, and returned
soon to the familiar green land of his birth,
where his mother had relinquished the river
steamboat for a new white bungalow on
shore, things having by the sparing but
judicious expenditure of ammunition become
more civilised. It was there that, in giving
life to another child, she voluntarily gave
up her own, refusing the quinine that would
have cured her fever lest at the same time
it should kill her second son.
That second son, too, “went home” and
dodged his schooling and choked in a city
office for a month or two, then fled out
again for air and room and freedom.
The company gave them air and room
enough. It gave them the wide mouth of a
river to breathe in and a whole province to
administer. The elder brother sat at the river
mouth and collected Customs dues of all the
weird craft the monsoon blew in from the
sea and all the slim skiffs that came sneak-
ing down from the upper reaches at night:
while the younger went inland and levied
head taxes on tree-men and cave-men and
men that built their nests in the grass,
teaching them in return to make roads and
build houses and grow hill rice. The natives
called them, respectively, Paterson and Pat-
erson’s brother. They loved each other, these
two, and they loved their work, recking
nothing of the timid old lady in Surrey and
the clamorous Cockney in London, whose
servants they were.
Now, a man who builds like a bird his
nest in the grass expects to pay no rent. He
is Nature’s tenant, and she only with floods
and fires has the right to evict him. He
NO RUSH WITHOUT A THORN .
MABEL : “I lore their military clothes, don't
you?”
GERTIE : “Yes, but the buttons catch on one's
hair so!”
pays her simply the fee of his worship,
and resents any alien readjusting of this
arrangement. Thus it came about that the
collector of inland revenues found himself
one afternoon surrounded and a prisoner in
an isolated hut of his own building in the
interior, a hundred miles away from succor.
That evening he got a friendly native away
safely under cover of the darkness with a
message telling his brother of his plight.
Paterson, lacking his brother’s society,
was down with fever, which is companion-
ship of sorts. When three days later he got
the message, babbled out like the very voice
of yesterday’s delirium, he writhed in his im-
potence, and wrote, as soon as he could com-
mand his fingers, to his superior officer, im-
ploring the immediate assistance of a file of
police and sufficient ammunition. Then he
lay back and tried frenziedly to think of
nothing so that his temperature might go
down and he might lie enabled to get speed-
ily on his feet again.
Some days later the answer came by
native post, but without the attendant ap-
parition of a row of the fierce-faced, spindly-
legged Sikhs he wanted. His Chief was
sorry. There had been complaints of late
of the expenditure on punitive expeditions,
and questions at Board meetihgs by humani-
tarians. He had had the strongest warn-
ings. On his own initiative it was impos-
sible : he. hoped for the best; he trusted that
things w r ere not actually as serious as re-
presented; and he had referred the request
to headquarters.
The collector of coastal dues woke from a
heavier dose of fever some four days later
to find a familiar face looking at him from
the table by his bed. He felt a muddled
delight at seeing his brother back again so
soon, and wondered vaguely that his face
failed to show a similar pleasure—wondered
until he observed that the head of his dear-
est relative had been severed at the neck,
and. lacking a body, was reposing there medi-
tatively on its chin. His Chinese “boy”
admitted having placed it on his table, not
knowing what else to do with it, having re-
ceived it and a garbled message of defiance
for his master from a loin-clothed savage
who had come from, and vanished mysteri-
ously in, the direction of the river.
They say that away up in the backwaters
of the river Paterson indulged his slaughter-
lust for a fortnight. It is remembered in
the province as a surprising cataclysm that
no tribal raid had ever equalled. The Eng-
lishman figures in it as a mad fury, a
strange, white, superhuman being, who, prac-
tising methods of native warfare that the
natives themselves had forgotten, surprised
stockades and villages,, laid ambushes and
flashed from one side of the country to the
other like a winged pestilence. He is re-
membered as leading surprises, creeping up
through scant undergrowth in broad day-
light till he got beneath the long-houses the
natives build, and there starting the fire that
smoked the tribe out, only to fall into the
arms of the followers whom, in emulation of
Rajah Brooke, he had collected from the
coastal villages. It is remembered how he
carried wherever he went a head that seemed
like a dog yapping at the heels of the fugi-
tives, till it drove them with their bare lives
over the border. They say, too, that from
the day he withdrew along his smoking trail
a child could walk from one end of the pro-
vince to the other, and bear its head in
safety on its shoulders.
Paterson seems to have stopped in full
career. His frenzy went with his fever, and
he appears for a brooding hour or two tp
have paused, wondering whether the victims
his vengeance had claimed were indeed the
right ones. Then he returned slowly down
the river, holding the head of his brother in
liis lap and communing with it silently.
He passed by his Customs house without a
glance for the unlicensed traders that lay at
the wharf merrily unloading. Out to sea
and along the coast he Avent, his twenty
boatmen paddling with the energy of hope
and fear, as if their mad efforts could widen
the distance between them and the inexor-
able white man in the stern, avlio drove them
like a herder of brute beasts. _
lie found the high official at his office in
the small, tin-roofed settlement that aviis
called the capital; and he Avent into his
presence carrying his
brother’s head, as a
priest carries the
precious and sacred
symbol of his religion.
The head caught the
eye of the high official
in the full flow of the
indignation that the
sight of a subordinate
aAvay , from his post
naturally stirred in
him. It checked his
eloquence. It fixed
his angry eyes. From
the level of his vis-
itor’s _ elbow it gave
him stare for stare, in
a frozen silence that
had fallen suddenly
on the whole room.
In this silence
Paterson spoke his
first lines.
“I have come,” he
said, in ominous, level,
unhurrying tones, “to
inquire into the cir-
cumstances that led to
m,v brother’s murder.”
With his free hand
he showed a letter.
“This is your writ-
ing?”
The official, still
under the spell of the
severed head, noddl'd
dumbly.
“In refusing my request for the help
which would have saved my brother s lit' - ,
you acted on your own initiative.' 1
The high official was overwhelmed with
horror, lie had known Paterson and Pater-
son’s brother from boyhood.
“I had no alternative” he began, pairc
fully eager under the intolerable gaze of the
two pairs of eyes to have things put imme-
diately to rights. .
Paterson knitted his brows impatiently, as
if he feared this irrelevancy would destroy
the labored sequence of his ideas.
“You acted entirely on your own initia-
tive-’’ . , ...
“No.” said the high official quickly.
He began to see. through the horror that
involved him, some gleams of light.
“No,” he repeated hurriedly. I acted
simply on orders. Good God ! Do you think
I would wittingly have sacrificed your bro-
ther’s life? I applied for the men to the
Chief of Police. The Chief of Police”——
The other motioned imperatively tor
silence. His brow was puckered and his eyes
gloomv with the effort of adjusting this new
fact to his chain of evidence. The Chief ot
Police! That made another person. Ihe
thing was. not so easy, so inevitable, as a
moment ago it had appeared. He looked
about him uncertainly.
“Where is the Chief of Police?” lie asked.
“It is useless.” said the other, “going to
him. He has his orders straight from Home.
A meeting of the Board was called over this
very business. A shareholder lodged a
charge of extravagance. A director backed
him up. There had been hints in the news-
papers. Public opinion had been roused.
The Board found”-
His listener bowed his head as under a
sudden and tremendous load. He seemed to
see the consummation of his revenge with-
drawn forever out of reach. A moment ago
it had seemed a clear issue. It had been
easy for his instinct, in the first primitive
passion of rage that had filled him at sight
of his brother’s head, to cry: ‘Blood for
blood”; that had been his native nurse s
creed. Now, snared in the toils of a com-
plicated civilisation, he felt suddenly stupid
and inefficient. A
His brow wrinkled in a tremendous and
painful effort to rally his wits to this new
aspect. Perhaps he visioned himself then,
tramping the streets of London, the symbol
of vengeance in his hand ; finding the ofhees
of the company, and laying the head of his
brother on the counter before a row ot
startled clerks; or gaining admission to a
Board meeting and producing the evidence
of their guilt dramatically to the eyes of that
pursy self-sufficient tableful of citizens.
Perhaps his mind came at last in visual con-
tact with the clamorous Cockney speculator
and the dear old lady in Surrey; and he
realised, like a swimmer at a bitter distance
from the shore, the futility of further effort.
-V great weariness seemed to enfold his
bodv. a vast incertitude to sway his brain.
I-Ie raised his head and turned heavily
towards the door.
It may have been the figure of the Chief ot
Police, seen framed in a doorway across the
white, coral-paved parade-ground, that drew
him. He walked uncertainly to the doorway,
went like a blind man down the steps and
out into the sunshine. The sunshine smote
him like a flame. He blazed momentarily in
a brief, undecided progress down the path ;
then suddenly, before his Chief could reach
him with the hat he had left behind, lie
crumpled up. As he fell the head of his
brother, slipping from under his arm, rolled
a few feet along the ground and came to rest
with its eyes directed to the sky, that gave
back its hopeless stare with a glare of
implacable scorn.
They gave the head fitting burial before
he rose from his delirium. For several days
afterwards he wandered in a vague endeavor
to gather the lost threads. But the most
essential link was missing. He sought for it
in the little, tin-roofed club. He searched
in a puzzled manner the faces he saw there,
but without success. He roamed about the
hot, uncomfortable-looking settlement for a
month or so, staring wistfully at passers-by,
occasionally quickening his steps for a yard
or two as if to overtake a figure in the dis-
tance. Finally, in an uninspired, purpose-
less way, he applied to his employers for a
passage home.
MERVYN G. SKIPPER .


tofte Chandler VI
The Car That “Keeps Faith.
19
On August 12 there left Sydney for Brisbane—a distance of 850 miles by
road—a convoy of
Twenty Chandler vSixes
under their own power.
Ihe reason for this innovation was that the shipping strike prevented delivery
to our Queensland Agents by boat. The congestion on the railways, owing to the
same cause, precluded despatch by train, and the only alternative left us in order to
keep faith with our customers was to send the whole convoy overland.
This we did, and what’s more— WE DOCKED THE WHOLE FLEET OF
20 CARS IN BRISBANE ON SCHEDULE!
The magnitude of the enterprise appealed to the public, and the successful
consummation of the proposition was hailed with a chorus of congratulations in both
the capitals.
I
. •
m
Mm
.
mm
MS
m
.
The chief merit of the performance was that ALL the cars MADE GOOD.
One or two might naturally be expected to do so, but when an entire fleet of 20
cars runs to time it establishes such a high level of excellence and reliability as to
become remarkable.
The same lofty standard is maintained throughout the manufacture of
Chandler Cars. The fact that the convoy under discussion consisted of cars which
were taken straight out of the packing-cases and put on the road to do the best part
of a 1000-mile trip shows how admirably the parts must have been adjusted and
how rapidly the Chandler gets “into its stride.’’
The 20 cars between them covered 17,000 miles, without mishap or engine
trouble of any description. The Blue Mountains, Great Dividing Range, and Black
Soil Plains were taken “on top’’ by many cars. Several of them did not have
occasion to open their bonnets from start to finish of the trek. These facts speak
volumes for the reliability of the Chandler, which is
A REALLY GREAT CAR—AND HAS PROVED IT.
Ring City 2567, and arrange a demonstration.
MARCUS CLARK 8 CO. LTD.,
AGENTS FOR NEW SOUTH WALES.
Showrooms — 147-51 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
BRADLEY & HOLLAND, Agents for Queensland,
Albert Square, Brisbane.
CHENEY MOTOR CO., Agents for South Australia,
42-48 Way mouth Street, Adelaide.


A PAGE OF
FOR “THE BULLETIN” VERSES.
Bed.
TH£
Bursts £R
£OiTor%
THANK God for bed,
A great bed white and sweet,
A pillow for my head,
Room for my tired feet!
Sweet is green grass
And a lair in soft fern
When the wide winds pass
And the high trees yearn
Up to the dark sky;
For I have slept well
Lying where I might lie
And no bird tell.
I have had dreams on moss,
Dreams with good waking,
WUen the wrens flew across
To a small bough shaking
And the broad sun rose
Filling the world with light—
Only the wanderer knows
•" How rich was the night.
I have slept upon sand
By the roaring of loud seas;
And my heart can understand
The morning call of the breeze
Coming up from the deep,
Blowing in and out of sleep.
But thank God for bed,
A bed white and sweet,
Rest for a heavy head,
Rest for weary feet,
Sleep with no dream,
But a breathing mild and slow
Till the morning’s white gleam
Begins to grow;
And you perchance come by—
Oh, what an hour is this! —
Drawing whitely nigh
With a scented kiss!
N.S.W.
DAVID MCKEE WRIGHT.
The Crossroads.
TIS a gay little road that goes up to
the hill,
’Tis a bonny that winds to the town ;
An’ I wait to discover the step of a lover,
An’ will he come up or go down?
I have gathered my kirtle and gartered my
hose,
An’ ribboned my hair at the glass,
An’ ’tis lovin’ that lies in the gleam o’ me
eyes
As I watch for a lover to pass!
Have ye mud on y’ breeks? Have ye gloves
on y’ hands?
Is your face o’ the pink or the tan?
I’ve the mind an’ the will for the town or
the hill
If I go at the beck of a man!
Is it kisses y’ want? Is it childer y’ need?
Here’s enough an’ to spare to be had !
Ay! ’tis hard to be tied, an’ ’tis weary to
bide
For the nod an’ the smile of a lad !
Is it busy ye are for the siller and pence
To hold in the grip o’ your fist?
There’s naething to bring but the price of a
ring,
An’ I’ll gie ye a mouth to be kissed !
An’ I’ll pillow your neck on the white o’ my
arm.
Here’s a maiden who wants to be wed ;
But the sun’s droppin’ down on the hill and
the town —
And I’ve found a grey hair in my head !
Was it blind that y’ were as ye passed on
the road,
Were y’ mazed by the heat o’ the day,
That never a man took the trouble to scan
A lassie who stood by the way?
'Tis a bright bonny road to the bed of a
bride!
'Tis a weary that winds down the years!
An’ the time is lang past for my kisses at
last
An’ I’ve naething to give but m’ tears!
MAORILAND.
BOYCE BOWDEN.
The Creeper on the Floor.
WE shall meet with many creepers
As we play our human part—
Some that crinkle up the goose-flesh,
Some that creep into the heart.
There are creepers on our houses.
Round the window and the door;
But by far the bonniest creeper
Is the Creeper on the Floor.
There are creepers that distract us,
There are creepers that delight.
There are creepers clad in Idossom.
Red and purple, pink and white.
There were creepers up in Flanders
Which invaded all we wore;
But the most absorbing creeper
Is the Creeper on the Floor.
There are creepers in society,
(Or crawlers, if you please) :
There are creepers on the bookstalls,
There are creepers in the cheese;
In fact, the wide world’s creepers
Are n verv tidy store.
But the king of all the creepers
Is the Creeper on the Floor.
SCOTLAND.
W. H. OGTLVIE.
Inland.
HERE, where Silence has all in her
keeping,
Song has sickened and sound has
swooned.
Till a wild bird’s call or a cricket’s cheeping
Stabs the quiet and leaves a wound ;
And it’s oh ! that the song of the sea could
break
The ghostly whispers the light leaves make!
The long road’s ribbon goes on unwinding
Through the valley and up the hill,
And what shall the seeker of joy be finding
But froth of petals the fruit-trees spill?
Then a dream streams up—fade blossom
and tree —
Of the foam that is lace on the sleeves of
the sea.
A wind goes running among the grasses, _
Plays in the wealth of the wildwood’s hair
And scatters abroad, as it laughs and passes.
Honey-sweet scents that it plundered
there.
But the heart is haunted by winds that
sprang
Sheer from the sea and the salt, sharp tang.
And a memory wakes of the waves down-
pouring
The white, light spindrift over their breasts,
Like wild Bacchantes a god adoring,
Kindled to madness with godly jests
And strange libations whose froth still spills
Down from their shoulders in shuddering
thrills.
Then the sough of the trees is the quick tide
churning,
The cloying breeze is a wind salt-lipped ;
And. swift as the pace of a seagull’s turning.
The mind from the arms of the land has
slipped
To rest, like a lover appeased, in the free
Fair sight and the sound and the scent of
the sea.
N.s.w.
NINA MURDOCH.
A Little Ghost.
THERE’S the spatter of sleet on the
window pane
As I enter the old room once again.
I shut the door on the windy hall.
And keep in the shadow against the wall.
Black on its cushion of crimson hue
The kitten dozes, and filtering through
An open door comes a laughing call.
And the clear-cut click of a billiard ball.
The collie waits with his lordly air
Till I have taken my old-time chair.
But the kitten wakens to crouch and spring
At the gleam of my frock and my beads
aswing.
The smell of leather, the firelit room.
Shadows of dreams in the mellow gloom.
Madonna eyes from the sombre wall.
And the haze of tobacco that shrouds it all!
Old pictures, old books, old chairs —no seas
Between can keep me apart from these. . . .
So often I creep to the firelit gloom;
Do you never dream I am in the room?
N.S.W.
NORA MCAULIFFE.
The Thrush.
THE sunlight weaves a golden veil
About the uplands green ;
The clouds lift slowly o’er the ridge
To breast the gulf between ;
Vague murmurs ripple where the trees
Bathe their wide branches in the breeze,
And hush !
Oh, hear the thrush !
As raindrops brim an opening bloom,
This limpid music fills
The velvet depths of silence hid
Among the cloven hills.
Sweeter than voice and instrument,
Silence and sound harmonious blent.
Hush ! Hush!
It is the thrush.
VICTORIA.
SYD C .
Jilted.
MY Darling Ned. —Your note received.
Through scaldiug tears I only see
That I—that .I have been deceived,
And you will wed my dear friend Bee.
Adored ! Adored 1 I love you still. .. .
Hang it! There goes the telephone !
Just wait a moment, dear, until—
Hullo ! Hullo ! Yes. . . .This is. Joan.
What, Robert!....ls it really eight?
Good gracious !. . . .Yes. ... I quite for-
got—
The dance?. .. .Dear Heart. I shan’t be
late. . . .
Come round for me?....0f course....
Why not?.. . .
Hullo !... .Can’t hear! Dear boy, be sane.
You know I never cared for Jack....
Good-bye. . . .Ah, Ned, my dear, ’tis plain,
Your note must wait till I come back !
QUEENSLAND.
ZORA CROSS.
Sacrament.
ACROSS the broken walls the grape-vines
twine
In fragrant bud ;
How red, how deeply red will be their wine
With Youth’s spilt blood !
Some boy’s gold hair is in the yellow corn,
The slender wheat
Is springing from some heart that lies forlorn
Beneath its feet.
These Were your saviour; for your own life’s
sake
Their lives Were spent.
In this your bread and wine, O France, you
take
Their sacrament.
N.S.W.
CHARLES F. PETTINGER.
As It Was in the Beginning.
IN the days of long ago
(Sing O, merry O)
You and I did courting go,
My fair ladye.
You were fair and lissome then,
Coy then, winsome then
I was much like other men,
My fair ladye.
You could snare me with a smile,
Shy smile, subtle smile;
Oh. you had a maiden’s guile,
My fair ladye.
Now the years have sped away,
Slipped away, dropped away;
Heads once high are bent and grey,
My fair ladye.
Eyes once bright are faded now,
Dull now, heavy now ;
Furrows line the slackened brow,
My fair ladye.
But, though night is falling cold,
Creeping cold, stealing cold,
Only you and I are old,
My fair ladye.
Lovers still a-eourting go
(Sing O, merry O)
As we used to long ago,
My fair ladye.
N.S.W.
INVER G.
The Assignation.
SOMETIMES at night I hear a still,
faint air
Upon the G string played, insistent,
low.
A phantom fiddler wields a phantom bow;
But what the tune I neither know nor
care —
I know it’s calling, calling me to go.
I hear the melody in minor key
And know he hopes to take me unawares;
He does not know how wrapt am I in
cares
That I will lie so still and wearily
Upon his breast, the night he comes for me.
That mocking, sobbing, wailing violin
Which follows me in laughter and in tears!
I pause and, list’ning, mark how now it
nears,
Sounding, however low, above Life’s din—
I know that soon I’ll call the player in,
And in his clutching arms my flutt’ring
breath
Sigh out in welcome, bidding him to feast
Upon my paling beauty, till the East
Engolds the world in dawn, and I and Death
Lie still, heart close to heart. O laggard
Death!
N.S.W.
HELEN JEROME.
A Plough Song.
A GRAND thing is a plough-team on the
long, straight course,
With a clear brain ruling the strength
of man and horse.
A fine sight is the plough-team on the hill-
top together;
A good time is the plough-time in the clear,
cold weather!
McKie worked the best team the country-side
could show
When he put in his own crop, two years ago.
As straight a back, as strong a hand as ever
steered a plough
Had McKie, that’s a cripple and a sick man
now.
A long day is the ploughman's day, from
winter's morn till night.
A warm glow in the evening mists are home-
stead lamps alight.
I looked in the hollow as the sun left the
hill,
And saw the plough lying and the team
standing still;
And always in the twilight I can see young
McKie
Lying in the furrow with his face to the sky !
N.s.w.
MCENSAY.
The Spring and Davy JoneS.
DOWN where the bones of sailor-meii
Oleam smooth and pale and whitb,
Grim Davy Jones sits bowed and old
And toys with playthings bleached and cold;
lii the etetnal night
The big-eyed fishes come and go
Amid the seaweed swaying slow,
And bloated grey-crabs fighL
A fat-paunched, weary man is he,
Whose woe is damp and chill,
For though the wealth of human husks
The waves bring on their gleaming tusks
May round about him spill,
And though the howling wind-wolves chash
Their quarry to the rocks’ embrace,
Ills heart is heavy still.
The lord of death in ooze and slime,
He hates liis weed-wrapped throne;
He hates the rusty locker’s lid,
He hates its gleaming treasure hid
For his dark eyes alone;
Swiftly his joyous greed has fled,
So sad and solemn ’mid the dead
He makes his mournful moan :
Dim and drear is the soft wet hair
Floating in loose, vague strands;
Dull are the eyes which hlanlcly stare
Up to me from the sands;
Brown were these men, these maids tcere
fair —-
But, ah! their wet, dead hands!
Monarch am I of masks of clay
Which I icould fain forget,
Too late—when life has ebbed away —
Too late I fill my net:
’Tis the strange tides which stir to-day,
They trouble, tempt and fret!
For, having conquered all the world
And warmed the hearts of men,
The Spring woos, wins him, unaware,
He slides from his slime-padded chair,
And all the grey waves then
Turn warm and green, and lisp a song;
And race and tumble in a throng
To greet the sun again!
He abdicates before the surge
Of summer in the sea;
Darkly through twilight depths he swims
Seeking unseen horizons’ rims,
Until he feels with glee
The water throb, and leap and race,
To kiss a sun-burnt beach’s face,
And then content is he.
So Davy Jones a fathom deep
Lies stretched on sands of white,
The surf-girls swim above his head
And do not know the shadow dread
Which views them with delight:
They do not know the Mate of Death
Pays homage with his bated breath
To life and love and light,
His fleshy face is one vast smile,
His salt blood lives and leaps;
In silhouette against the sky
The round waves toss the brown girls high
Upon their gleaming steeps;
But fleeting joy awaits a king
Who, tempted by the fickle Spring,
Has left his dreaded deeps.
For one maid cries the sea grows chill,
And that she feels a cramp ;
Another sees the shadoAv dark.
And panic shrills, “A shark —a shark!”
Deserted that grey scamp
Creeps bowed and broken out to sea
To drown his lonely misery,
And his round eyes are damp !
VICTORIA.
DALE COLLINS.
The Suicide.
N.S.W.
THE time has come. The awaited hour
is near.
The high-lights gleam witn last in-
tensity
While I submerge and drown. Vague shapes
appear
Within the half-dusk of the under sea.
The days dissolve, the common hours depart;
The endless avenues of years arise.
Down, and down, and dreamier grows the
heart;
Down, and down, and greener grow the
skies.
The images of yesteryear return;
And Youth’s wild mistress with her hair
afloat
Brings once again her offering eyes that burn.
And bares once more the beauty of her
throat.
Her hand that takes my hand is just as cold.
Her voice that answers mine is just as shy,
And reawakens as it waked of old
Upon my lips the everlasting lie.
Among the weeds we tread the slumb’rous
WitlfTinibs that love and eyes that still
With naught"' to break the silence of that
Save* 5 but our mouths, that mutter as we
move.
The same old quarrel comes, the same slow
frown.
The same quick question and relief of tears ;
And yet for th : s I die. for this 1 drown
To leave dull Age and corpulent, cour-
teous years.
LEON GELLERT.


XMAS
GIFTS
Diamond Half-hoop
Ring, £36
Diamond Three-stone
Ring, £33
Single-stone Diamond
Ring, £471101-
DIAMOND AND GEM RINGS
JEWELLERY
WATCHES AND CLOCKS
GOLD AND SILVER WARE
SILVER-PLATED WARE
Fine Quality Enamel,
Pearl, and Diamond
Brooch, £26
Enamel and Pearl
Brooch, £5151-
Lady's 18ct. Bloodstone
Signet Ring,
£3
»m.
Brummonti & Co.
JEWELLERS
Gold Expanding Bracelet Watch,
-reliable time ■ keeper, £llllOl -
Gold Bracelet, 9ct., 601-, 701-
Isct., 801-, 105',-
Lady’s Gold Wrist Watch,
Moire Silk Band,. £B/8/-
DRUMMOND’S large stocks afford an excellent opportunity for choosing at
moderate prices—Rings, Jewellery, Silver Ware, etc., especially appropriate for
Xmas Gifts. The Firms’ reputation for Highest Quality and Finest Work-
manship is thoroughly exemplified in every article included in the selection.
Orders given by mail receive the same careful attention as those given in person.
344-346 Collins Street, MELBOURNE
XMAS
GIFTS
15ct. Cold and Pearl
Bar Brooch . £2
Octagon Pearl and
Diamond Ring, £lOO
Diamond Cluster Ring
£3B
TORTOISESHELL AND IVORY
BRUSHWARE
TRAVELLING BAGS
DOULTON, CROWN DERBY, 6c R.W.
CUTLERY CABINETS
Pearl Double-circle
-Brooch, £4llOl-
Plat., Pearl, and
Diamond Brooch, £5/5/•
Cent’s 18ct. Gold
Signet Ring,
£ 2/1216
*#■'&'** l-.: ■ v
nw
• JsmSSF * :- ":■■
•4’4vi - ,-;: - .w;'A'.^ i s >••■•-.
wkMmKm ■■■'.:■■' j-- ■•
* i\v: <A V
iiiii
' ■>■:
;.IkS
•s-a
sgs
v, «| :
IS
||ggM
SH&
Hi
': aBB
L k< |
mm
.ii ’jit:}
‘r?,yi-
mm
mmmMS
&M
V.s:>.v
S&&
ms
•fcV'
wes I *®
sp§
SBH
i#SSBi
&5W
'
Vi>
<1
M
■::- •-
{sl
.w*
gitr
M:
iiiii
wm
0i $£ “‘-V -
«
mmmrnw.
mm
t ■■A'.m
P &i&feQs'?■.' •' II vj Zfy&S&vLH ..-Yi 1 ss§|ljfekls v a&r\ !•< 4 »s*s
l|B|fi;
§§f||||Si
££ftB
m
m
iHH
■sy^m
m
SI
;. i-
:'• ■■ i
i
WmmM
s»
■ s
mmi
mm
SsSSS
m
I m
m
*yc
•S'M
;?■■*-■/*
Stt&SS; &«fIM \ - a . -' >. .
pM
m
m
|off@HSg£gg&
¥o'M>i
* f fZvikv r s
m m
*?v
- , '
W@g£
«
SSSSS* - '
ic
kssss
s*s
sps
i M.
ssa*
'Civfi.
sr<si--.w.
s?J5f
•J'-.-r?
«
<; :


Reverie.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SECURE and warm within a firelit room
I sit and listen to the swelling gale
That floods the night with war. The
muffled boom'
Of mighty combers, pounding where the
pale
Pink coral-islands dream, floats up to me
Above the chaos of the writhing sea.
My cheek close-pressed upon the dripping
pane,
I strive to pierce the veiling of the rain.
Out of the unlit waters starward flies
A hlue-liglit of distress from some doomed
bark,
While frightened stormbirds beat down
bitter skies
In search of refuge through the hellish dark.
I leave the window with re-horn desire
For light and warmth. Contented hours
which lease
Their calm from Thought entice me, and the
fire
Beams camaraderie. Here there is peace.
Fantastic shadows round the dim walls light
Like unquiet spirits in unearthly flight.
In divers shapes they stretch, and leap, and
dance.
One, like the Little Corporal of France,
Swaggers in cloak of grey that sprawls
and streams
Across the door. There, through a wooden
main
A weird sea-serpent creeps; here, ships
o’ dreams
Sweep on beside proud galleons from Spain.
I yield my thoughts to Phantasy, and roam
At will in alien lands. I quaff their
wines.
I see their gorgeous blooms that star the
loam
With fire, and pluck rich grapes from
groaning vines,
And bow my head when dawnward Daylight
runs
Before the Phoenix-birth of foreign suns.
Within the seething embers swirls a lake
Of liquid fire, encircled by a brake
Where crimson snakes bask in a scorching
wind,
And light-robed figures glide about and pass
Among the sombre rocks, which fire-
strands bind
Like blazing chains on blocks of smoke-
stained brass.
The mottled charcoal mounds, which ruby
caves
Illume, hide scarlet-coated beasts that
lurk '
And spit within. Wild smoke-storms upfling
waves
Of elfin sparks that fleck the chimney-
murk :
Born but to die, they flare a second’s breath,
Then, fading, yield their ruddy hearts to
Death.
The ash-scarred sod, whereon red fire-souls
tread,
Is full of traps and tricks, as though in
dread
They traverse crumbling tracks with white-
hot feet,
And when the burnt earth splits take
sudden flight
Into the darkness of an ebon sheet
Of smoke that swallows up their lives of
light.
CRITICISM, CANDID v. CANDIED.
His New Wife : “Of course, dear, 1 think
anything you paint is simply beautiful;
hut really I am never quite certain what
it is meant for.”
Her New Husband: “How candid you are,
darling! .1 never can bring myself to
say things like that about your cooking .”
But, as I gaze, the coals grow cold and
brown ;
My visions vanish with the deadened glow
As steadfastly the flames sink down and
down.
No longer fire-sparks dance nor smoke-
streams flow.
Lo! night is spent, and vanquished storm
and stress.
Up cloudless skies I see the dawnstar press!
N.S.W.
NIYA BECKE.
Whom War Hath Joined.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
GREATER love hath no man than
| y this ”
From the day that they joined the
army Davo and Johno were cobbers. If
the two friends from whom they derived
their names were anything like them. then,
with all their wars, the Israelites must have
got a lot of fun out of life.
They were always together. Davo slept
alongside Johno, and Johno slept alongside
Davo. They dreamed of one another to
the wakefulness of the rest of the tent:
“Taken my blankets again, you cow!” “Yes,
you ; I’ll teach you to kick me in the
ribs.”
On parade Johno fell in behind Davo.
Then if Davo got out of step it was all
through Johno in front. “Frightened to
put your feet down, are you, you cow?”
Then Johno’s retort: “Not on your
hide, anyway, you !”
Yet when leave-day came they always
went off to Cairo together. If Davo would
say, “Let’s have a drink!” Johno would
OUR NATIVE TONGUE.
“One thing my dad won't stand for is sli ng.”
“Mine , too. Gee! He does go to market if we don't talk the properest English."
howl, “Didn’t I tell you I’d put the peg in?
I came down to see the sights.” But Davo
would have to bring Johno home. “The
swine!” he would tell the tent. “Save me
from a fighting drunk! Nearly got me
grabbed by the picket a couple of times.”
But there was one leave-time that they
both together said, “Let’s have a drink!”
That was the night before they left Cairo for
the Dardanelles. However, they did not
remain in agreement for long. At the East
Lancashire bar Davo said the beer was
rotten. Johno said it was bonzer beer;
and, “Take that, you !” and “wait till
I get my rifle to you, you dirty, beer-spilling
!” the awakened camp heard as the
stones of the desert hurtled through the
night and fell softly into the sand again.
It was the two cobbers coming home.
* * * *
A couple of weeks afterwards they spoke
in unison again. “Hell!” they muttered
together. “The water’s cold.” No
daylight yet, but from the deeper darkness
of the land in front shot flashes of flame
Strange notes sang around them. “Into
them, boys!” someone shouted. There were
hollow boat-sounds and curses and the bang-
ing of oars, and the whole battalion splashed
in and out and on and up, in perfect agree-
ment —Davo, Johno and all.
All that day, while bullets snarled and
rifles crashed, over hills and hollows wan-
dered men saying “I can’t find ray company, ’
or “my battalion.” But more often : “I’ve
lost my cobber!”
Yet, somehow, Johno and Davo kept to-
gether through it all. “I got him !” one
would yell as they fired at the Turks scam-
pering over the next ridge. “No ! He’s
mine!” the other would shout. And then
they would meet their own wounded —poor
torn wretches who said nothing, only looked.
“The swine!” they roared together as they
rushed on with the simple impulse. “Let’s
get amongst them.”
Dark came. They had not met any
wounded for a long while now. They had
taken cover in a shallow watercourse,_ and
Johno was firing at the gloom of the hill in
front. Every now and then what sounded
like a canary whistled 10 notes over-
head —a machine-gun. “You silly ——
Wasting our ammunition like that. We'd
better go back. We’re out on our own
here,” Davo said.
“Yah! Frightened of the dark !” Johno
sneered. He got up, and together they
raced for the valley behind.
In the weeks that followed they_ scarcely
had a word to say to each other. Yet Johno
relieved Davo on the firestep when his rifle
grew hot, and while Davo dug, Johno shov-
elled. They lived, they ate, and they slept
in the one dugout. Yet the only conversa-
tion would be when Johno, moving ever so
little, would cause loose earth to trickle into
Davo’s eyes.
“You clumsy swine! This is a dugout,
not a stable.”
“Well, keep your head outside it
then.”
“There go the inseparables again,” said
the rest of the platoon.
But as with so many domestic couples, so
with them. It was the cooking that caused
the big quarrel. Jphno believed in all food
being fried —in a mess-tin full of fat. Davo
said that accounted for his bad temper; all
food should be either boiled or grilled. It
was Davo’s job to fetch the water, Johno’s
to find the firewood. Johno said he wasn’t
going to have things boiled ; it would
take too much wood and it was his
wood, anyway. So Davo had to eat things
a la Johno. Perhaps Davo was right about
the effect of it, for as the summer grew, and
the flies multiplied, so did their rows.
“Do for greasing rifles,” Davo remarked
of the breakfast one morning.
“Pity you weren’t at home,” Johno
sneered. As he flung his hand out to say
this he spilt some tea over Davo.
“A man ought to make a greasy rag out
of you,” Davo yelled as he jumped up.
“Come and try it. then.” Johno invited.
They got out on the hillside and advanced
on one another. The men of the neighbor-
ing dugouts put up their heads to watch.
Then Davo remembered. “Can’t fight here
—in the battalion lines,” he said. “All
right,” Johno shouted. “I’ll fight you down
the gully. Better bring a burial party with
you.”
Bluey Watson and Tickler said they’d see
fair play. “Here’s a good place,” Bluey
said as they reached the bottom of the valley.
“Won’t do!” Johno decreed. “Ground’s
too rough.”
“Well, what about this?” Bluey asked as
they turned the corner of the hill.
“There was a man and a mule killed here
with shrapnel yesterday,” Davo said.
Bluey and Tickler said afterwards that
they took them up all the hills and down all
the valleys of Anzac. “Look here,” Bluey
moaned at last —they were over near Gaba
Tepe then —“this will have to do you. Get
to it and have it out.”
“It’s too hot now,” Davo said. “I’m too
thirsty,” Johno complained; “the lazy swine
never brought any water up this morning.”
But the breach was still as wide when they
got back to the battalion. “I wouldn’t sleep
in the same dugout as you,” Davo grunted.
“All right, get out of it,” Johno retorted.
“This is my dugout.” “Garn, I dug this
side of it.” After that each cooked his
own meal as he liked and sat in his corner
saying no word.
And wherever the battalion moved it was
always the same. They would set-to along-
side one another, each to scoop for himself a
hole in the earth. But neither seemed
satisfied to let it remain like that r they
would go digging and scraping away until
the dividing wall fell in and the two dugouts
would become one. “What are you doing
in my dugout?” they would yell at one
another, and then they would rest from
their labors, each in his own corner.
“I can’t get rid of the cow,” Davo con-
fided to the corporal one day.
“The ! He’s worse
than the ——- flies,” Johno
told the sergeant.
* *
They were in the trench
crowding alongside one
another, waiting for the
bombardment to cease. Most
likely, they had been told
a while ago, they would not
come out of what was going
to follow. They could hear
each other breathing, but
through i t all neither of
them spoke.
“Br-r-i-r-i” went the
whistle up the trench. With
the rest silently they climbed
up and over together. Men
stumbled around them as
they faced on. They reached
the crashing, roaring Turk-
ish trench. Together they
swore as they helped to
tear up the overhead beams.
Then they dropped down
into the deat h-d eal i n g
gloom.
Late that night they were still at it. Out
at the end of a sap Davo was scornfully
handing up bombs to Johno, who vehemently
pitched them. Then without a word they
would change over, Johno handing-up and
Davo throwing. The only time that either
of them spoke was once when a Turkish
bomb fell in the trench. Davo was up
throwing then. Johno flattened himself
against the wall of the trench. The bomb
burst and Johno still lay flattened there.
“Johno!” Davo cried. “You’re not hit!
Cobber!” “Go to Hell!” Johno said, and
handed up another bomb.
* * * *
Weeks afterwards the fighting had died
down. The wounded and the sick had been
taken away and new men were in their
places. But Davo and Johno still stayed
on, each in his own corner of the dugout.
Summer and the flies went, winter and the
blizzards came. Together they helped carry
up stores and water from the beach; they
relieved one another in the bitter, dreary
watches. But when they left the Peninsula
at the evacuation, not one word had they
spoken to each other since that night in the
trenches.
There was much lamentation in Egypt.
Bugles blew, sergeants strode down the iines
and roared out names from papers. “You
are to leave us and form a new battalion,”
the officers told the men as they answered
the names.
“They’ve taken my cobber away from me,”
men said. “He’s going over to the new divi-
sion.” Comradeships confirmed in the sweat
and blood of a bitter campaign were broken
up ruthlessly. Men wept and swore and
protested—all to no good. Their officers
could do nothing. General Headquarters had
ordered a new division to be formed, and
that was the encT of it.
But down the lines of one battalion there
was more than protest—there was tumult.
“I won’t go! I won’t go!” a man roared.
He swore at all the officers and sergeants.
“Go to Hell! Yes, you! You! You!
Yes, you too!” He was still screaming it
out as they carried him to the guard tent.
As soon as he was inside he quietened
down at once. A man who had been on
unauthorised leave to Cairo woke up.
“What’s the trouble?” he asked.
“They want to make me leave my cobber,”
Johno howled. “We’ve been together since
the word ‘Go !’ ”
He was still telling him all about it when
there was a fresh uproar in the camp outside.
It gradually came nearer. Then, still strug-
gling and swearing, a man was pushed head-
long into the tent.
“What’s the trouble?” the man from Cairo
asked as the new arrival sat up.
“Knocked out an officer and two sergeants
for taking my cobber away from me,” Davo
replied. “I’ll show the s!”
The man just back from Cairo looked at
them and yawned. “One thing, you won’t
be very far from each other for some time
now,” he said. “You ought to bring about
twelve months in clink together.”
“Yes, all for that cow !” Davo said.
“In the mess again over that swine!”
Johno wailed. And they scowled at each
other.
For greater love hath no man than this —
that he was able to quarrel with his friend.
HARLEY MATTHEWS .
Poor Devils.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE midday rush of traffic swirled along
in a heady torrent, banking up at the
cross streets where tributary streams
emptied their floods of vehicles into the
spate, sweeping recklessly along the clear
stretches from block to block, giving voice
with multitudinous tongues to its desire for
haste.
Elephantine tram-cars boomed along their
set course, brushing out of the way all the
smaller fry of the road. The nerve-shat-
tering whoop of limousines blended hideously
with the rattle and roar of heavier motor
juggernauts, while during occasional lulls the
jingling harness and clacking hoofs ahead of
some antiquated horse-drawn, vehicle sounded
like the faint voice of a half-forgotten past.
Here and there, swooping and diving
through the ruck, chattering motor-cycles
performed marvellous parabolas around
tram and lorry, shooting with triumphant
squawks between racing splashboards and
flouting all the known and unknown Jaws of
gravitation and balance.
Alone amid the turmoil stood a worried-
looking traffic policeman, now checking the
thunderous advance of the close-packed
phalanx of wheel and hoof with an easy ges-
ture of his large and powerful hand ; anon,
with a wave of his blue-clad arm, loosing the
whole clamorous pack in a frantic dive for
the next corner.
HIS WAY OF SPOILING HER.
Hubby (savagely): “ I've spoilt you, that's
what I've done.”
She: “Yes. You’ve always given me too
much of your own way."
At a crossing where hardened citizens
took their lives in their hands stood a pup—
a nondescript animal, claiming no particular
breed while showing traces of many. With
lolling tongue and happily-flapping tail he
gazed through big, blue, unsophisticated eyes
at the swiftly-changing kaleidoscope that un-
rolled itself before him. A wild bull-elephant
from the jungles of India, an African lion,
fierce and predatory, a savage orang-outang
from Borneo—not one but would have fled
precipitately from the hideous clamor of the
hurrying traffic. But not the pup.
With a sublime faith in the Providence
that looks after young and innocent dogs,
he heaved his loose, ungainly body from the
pavement and stepped serenely into the road-
way. Looking neither to one side nor the
other, and blissfully unconscious of the mani-
fold and messy deaths that waited for him,
he flung his sprawling, uncouth limbs to right
and left and ambled gently and without
haste into the heart of the maelstrom.
Spinning circles of rubber and iron shot
past his head, missing him by inches. Clip-
ping hoofs spurned the wood blocks within
a hair’s breadth of his spine. But still he
shambled on until he had reached almost the
middle of the road. Then the spell snapped.
Swooping from behind a lorry, a gibbering
motor-cycle bore down on the pup, who
stopped and stared goggle-eyed at the appari-
tion. his barely-manageable tail agitating vio-
lently to mark his appreciation of the show.
The rider of the cycle gathered in his petrol-
and air-controls with one hand, grabbed
frantically at the exhaust with the other and
thrust with all the strength of his thigh and
calf muscles at the foot-brake.
(Continued on page 40.,)


The National Drink of Australasia,
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS is vastly superior to
all other Alcoholic Beverages.
Sfflliu*
Family w
a, Stimulaht
i
Should be in every home —it is a medicinal
stimulant that dispels “that tired feeling.”
uiA.rt
io?
i*
5. That Haunting Strain
(Jlrthur Clifford)
6. Billo - - (Fred Hall)
7 Blllabong - (Fred Hall)
8. Mysterious Melody (Henri Penn)
1 HE SENSATIONAL WALTZ OF THE SEASON.
DJER KISS WALTZ
(pronounced Dear Kiss ) The Number That s Tickling Everybody s Ear.
Just Once in a Decade You Get a Remarkable Waltz
DJER KISS {Dear Kiss) IS IT. Price 2/- net.
m
m
M
m
m
■
rtlo uv * 4\^ x fief ** V\V& *9
or V guW 8 * <* ®*vYW* \>^ sX '
.« C V^-
Of \*** A " eV-O®- 6 '
<s***' •*. ' ' ■
ftwS^
s>o^
.. ~.*4*&f*
tcfff
KYNOCH AMMUNITION.
ASK THE “DIGGER” whether
the K brand Small Arms Ammuni-
tion was not asked for nine times
out of ten when on active service.
Kynoch’s Sporting Cartridges—
Kyblack, Bonax, Primax —will be
found to satisfy the most exacting
Sportsman; the acme of perfection
in components and loading being
embodied in all Kynoch Cart-
ridges.
ASK YOUR DEALER for
KYNOCH AMMUNITION.


The cycle hesitated in its stride, swerved
violently to the right and slid over on its
side in front of an advancing tram, spilling
its swearing rider in a dishevelled heap on to
the rails.
DIDN’T KNOW WHEN HE WAS WELL OFF.
“Wife locked me out again allarshnight!”
“Lucky dog! Mine locked me in.”
The gasp of the air-brake followed the
frantic clutch of the tram-driver at the
composition-covered handle. There was a
shriek of tortured metal as the curved metal
pressed on the revolving wheels, and the
tram came to a sudden halt amid a cloud of
dust and sparks and the smell of roasting oil.
On the heels of the train was a fast tour-
ing car which pounced savagely at the de-
nomination-plate of the vehicle in front as it
came to such a sudden stop. A back-breaking
contortion on the part of the driver as he
twisted himself round the wheel saved it
from disaster. Diving at an acute angle
from behind the tram it skidded across to
the offside gutter, while a thundering lorry,
coming in the opposite direction, jerked to a
breathless standstill, its radiator within an
inch of that of the touring car, its cursing
driver glaring, more in fright than in anger,
at the neatly-uniformed chauffeur as he
clung in a cold sweat to the wheel.
The traffic was now completely blocked, and.
while the rushing current behind piled itself
up against the dam, the traffic policeman,
galvanised into sudden action, produced
pocketbook and pencil and bore down on the
unfortunate cyclist who had been the first to
come to grief.
The cause of all the trouble was engaged
in an argument with a flea in the middle of
the road. Sitting on his haunches, with his
head cocked grotesquely on one' side, he was
endeavoring to dislodge his unwelcome guest
with wild, scythe-like sweeps of a hind leg.
Meanwhile the cyclist and the policeman
entered into a heated argument, and the dis-
located traffic began to sort itself out as
best it could.
Presently the cyclist, having capitulated
and surrendered his name and number, ago
and address and sundry other particulars,
recovered his wheel from where it lay, leaking
petrol and oil in front of the tram, ran a
couple of yards with it, sprang into the
saddle and clattered off along the street.
The pup meantime had disposed of his
flea and ambled unconcernedly across the
road. Having reached his goal he flopped
languidly into a patch of sunlight on the
kerb and watched the clanging, hooting
stream of traffic once more resume its rush.
He admired the gymnastics of the policeman
for a while, but, having apparently decided
that the world was a dull place anyhow,
made a perfunctory dah or two at the spot
where the flea had been and dropped asleep
in the sun.
“Poor devil!” muttered the worried police-
man. catching sight of him out of the corner
of his eye.
“Poor devils!” grunted the pup as he
settled himself for his snooze.
FEED V. COLEMAN.
Love and Liquor.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
B BANDER, the shipping reporter of
the Tocsin, the metropolitan morn-
ing daily, was compiling his list of
, . ,P’ nvrivals for the
prophecies of the maritime ainvals toi the
following day. The weather was warm, and
his two room mates, who had been abroad
gathering “copy” during the morning, had
srone to a near-by tavern to see the time,
8 , f . , „„„„
Tafeing chronometnc observations at neai-
by taverns is a most comforting occupation
in hot weather.
Saddler, the sporting scribe, suddenly
burst into the room with a giggle f
“Say, Brander, he chuckled, there s a
flea-bitten grey at the foot of the stairs ask-
ing the janitor how to get his name kept out
of 'the naper. Got sliickered last night, and
. • „„„„ tto’c- n fii-cii-
was put m ‘ • ‘ '
offender.” < _
“Well, he needn’t worry,” interjected
Brander. “We never publish the names of
first-offender drunks.”
“Yes. I know—trial gallops tor the
boozers’ stakes are not published. But this
old crock is a shriek. Say nothing, listen
to his hard-luck tale, and keep up the joke.
Here he comes.”
Touchstone defines the seven degrees of
affront from the retort courteous to the lie
circumstantial. Brander mentally classified
the various door-raps from the tap demure
through a score of shades and variations to
the bang aggressive. There was a hesitating
step in the passage, and Brander recognised
the knock solicitous.
“Come in !” he Shouted.
Obsequiously a dapper little young old
man bowed his way into the room. Brander
turned in his seat, and took in the stranger’s
rig as he faltered his way to a chair prof-
fered by Saddler. The visitor placed his
soft black hat delicately on the desk, lifted
up his coat-tails and sat down with a sigh
of relief. His coat was a “dogger,” and
his neatly-pressed grey-striped pants were
indisputably “correct.” Yet his white and
pink spotted vest, mauvC silk tie and red
carnation button-hole imparted a definite
touch of flippancy.
Saddler stared him up and down and con-
DIAGNOSIS.
DOCTOR : “Your trouble, madam, seems to
be due to an excess of adipose tissue.”
PATIENT; “ Gracious! I wonder if that’s
what makes me so awfully fat!”
sidered him “well rugged.”
The newcomer drew his chair ctoser to
Brander and nervously fidgeted with his
smartly waxed iron-grey moustache as he
eyed each reporter in turn.
"Well, sir?” said Brander.
“Just a moment,” replied the stranger.
Then, turning to the sporting writer, he
said: “Would you be kind enough to sit
down and listen V”
“With pleasure,” replied Saddler. He
brought a chair over and curled himself up
in it.
“Before we go any further,” continued
the dapper visitor, “have a smoke, boys,”
and he shrapnelled a fistful of cigars on
Brander’s desk.
“To commence with, my name’s Eric B.
Canterville,” he proceeded, presenting a card
to each. Saddler sat up and looked across
at Brander, who gave an almost impercep-
tible start. The latter recalled having writ-
ten a little paragraph which appeared in
that morning’s issue of the Tocsin about one
Eric B. Canterville having performed an un-
rehearsed feat off the wharf late on the pre-
vious night, followed by a rescue by Con-
stable Congrove and the arrest of the
water-logged Canterville on a .charge of
drunkenness.
“I’m 60 years of age,” said the visitor,
holding a match for the others to light their
cigars, “with an unblemished record. How’s
that?”
“Excellent,” pronounced Saddler. “Sixty
years and like a two-year-old.”
“Yes, I don’t feel a second older than I
did 40 years ago. Father and mother over
00 when they died. Good stock, eh, boys?”
“A family of stayers,” said the sporting
scribe.
“Positively ; and always ran straight, too.”
“What’s the trouble, then?” asked Sad-
dler. “Jambed on the rails?”
“Scarcely that, but I’m in a fix. Will
you help me? I take you to be sports.”
“We’ll do our best,” said Brander.
“I prefer -to start at the beginning,” said
“but I may remark in paren-
theses, and in large type, I’ve had a humid
night—damp, moist, almost sloppy—and
finished up in the watch-house. Listen, boys.
If my name gets in the paper I’m ruined,
utterly, irrevocably. Do you get me?’’
“Yes,” said Brander, uneasily. Saddler
smothered a snicker.
“The whole trouble is there’s a lady in
the matter,” explained Canterville.
“Ah, ha!” exclaimed Saddler, who joined
in a laugh with Brander.
“Hush! No-no-no, not that! Half a
moment —steady, boys. This is serious, ’
said the visitor deprecatingly.
When the ebullition had subsided, Canter-'
ville continued: “I’ve knocked around a
couple of score of years, and I’ve never had
anybody to care for me; no one to share
a crust with, tto orie to put out the milfe-
can and talk about the neighbors, no
romance, absolutely no love disappointments,
never missed a meal in my life. Do you
follow me?”
“On vour heels,” said Brander.
“Condemned to single harness,” cbm-
inented Saddler.
“Condemned —good ! I like your diction,
young man. ‘Condemned’ is an excellent
word,” effused Canterville. “A few months
ago I reckoned I’d completed my sentence.
Met my affinity—my parallelism. No silly,
slobbery love-stuff about us. I offered her
tlie wholesome devotion of a man of mature
years. She retaliated, or reciprocated,
whichever you like, with all the affection of
a strong-minded female.”
“A nice little filly?” asked Saddler.
“Well, no; she’s not young.”
“Arrived at the age of discretion then,”
ventured Brander.
“Almost past that age—oh, no; I mean
she’s inclined to be elderly— and faddish.
Don't forget, boys, faddish. Faddish —
there’s the rub.”
“Causes friction,” suggested Brander.
“Well, it may,” replied Canterville, “but
not if I can help it. Our attachment was
contracted after a brief acquaintance. Her
relations didn’t like it. Ah, well, such is
the debasing influence of money ! They tried
to shoo me off. But Bella and I understood
each other right aw T ay. She’s a widow of
many years’ experience. Her income runs
into a cool sixty pounds a week. Think of
it, boys—a cool sixty !”
“A limousine life for you,” remarked
Saddler.
“Smooth seas and sunny skies,” added
Brander.
Canterville lighted a cigar and contem-
plated with a smile of satisfaction the little
puffs of smoke that eddied and twirled in
front of him.
“We’ve decided to be man'ied next wmek.
and Bella’s planned
for us to live in a
sweet little bunga-
low,” he continued.
“Everything mapped
o u t,” interpolated
Brander.
“Yes, Bella’s got a
lovely little nest out
at Ivahore. Both of
us passionately fond
of .flowers. I prefer
lilies-of-the-valley. I’m
to dig the garden, and
she’s to supervise. You
know, boys, a regular
Arcadia —far from the
madding crowd and all
that sort of thing.”
“About her fads?”
prompted Saddler,
forcing the pace.
“Very good; I was
just coming to that.
Bella’s got an anti-
pathy to liquor. Why?
Well, I couldn’t tell
you. One of the rea-
sons she’s so attached
to me is that I’m a
teetotaller and”
“You are?” ejaculated Brander.
“Decidedly yes —at intervals. It I wasn’t
I wouldn’t have a ghost of a chance with
her. A brother of hers got tipsy forty-two
years ago, and she’s disowned hint ever since.
There’s a female for you, boys!”
“Freakishly faddish,” pronounced Saddler.
“But how do you get on for a spot?”
“I have to be on the water-waggon until
I can get under cover for two or three days
at a spell. I pretend I’ve got
an interest in a farm down near
Panuku. I tell her I’m, going
down there to look into busi-
ness matters, and I just bury
myself in town here instead. 1
square the purser on the boat to
send a couple of wires from
Panuku to Bella.”
“You’d have made a good
politician—or a cattle-lifter,’
remarked Brander.
“But I’ve got to do it, my
boy ; simply got to. My throat
gets as dry as a ship’s biscuit,
and I have to resort to this
duplicity. But I abhor the de-
ception, boys; upon my word,
I do.”
“No doubt,” said Saddler.
“I’m sure you’re a straight
runner.”
“Of course, I am. I daren’t
attempt to fool her with breath
lozenges or cloves, so I have to
undergo a day’s drought before
I re-appear, as it were.”
“TweDty-four hours’ quaran-
tine.” said Brander.
“Just so,” replied Canter-
ville. “It’s a soul-racking busi-
ness, I assure you.”
“Sixty pounds a week!” mused Brander
aloud.
“Oh, I’m not complaining,” said Canter-
ville. “But last night’s—er—escapade is a
most unfortunate affair. Danged inoppor-
tune. Mixed my drinks, and got a crazy
notion to go down and meet the Panuku
boat at midnight—she was due at seven
o’clock next morning. Then I fell into the
harbor —and the water was devilish cold.”
“Successfully salvaged, though,” said
Brander.
“Quite. A constable pulled me out and
arrested me. A deuced good fellow, though.
Gave him five pounds this morning. The
beak convicted me and discharged me. Then
I squared the chap on the other papei* riot
to publish my name. Refused money, but
I got a quart of beer into him, and here I
am looking for your court reporter.”
“Your luck’s out,” said Saddler. “He’s
just gone to his lunch.”
“But, great heavens!” protested Canter-
viiie, “can’t I leave it in your hands, boys?
I’m willing to disburse for it. Hang the
cost.’*
“Can’t take bribes,” replied Brander.
“Haven’t you got any fund or organisa-
tion I can donate a ten-pound note to? What
about the Fund for the Relief of Parched
Pencillers? Come now, boys.”
“You’ve drawn a blank.” said Saddler.
“Now, listen, boys. I’ve got a covered-
iii taxi waiting outside to whirl me back
to niy secret lair at the Belgravia. But I
can’t go until you’ve solemnly assured me
that my name will be kept out of the paper.
I’ll leave a ten-pound note for the court
reporter.”
“It’s contrary to precedent,” said Brander.
“Nonsense! Money is the Aladdin’s lamp
of to-day. Come, boys, jump into m.v taxi
and I’ll take you to my apartment, and order
a dinner fit for the Grand Mogul of Bazoo-
zoo. Come, the flesh pots are calling!”
“Can’t be done,” expostulated Brander.
“Impossible,” echoed Saddler.
“Why?” asked Canterville.
“It’s too late,” answered Brander. “Have
you seen this morning’s”
A rustle of chiffon taffeta in the passage,
and a female voice was heard asking the
janitor the whereabouts of the reporters’
room.
“Great gad!” gasped Canterville leaping
out of his chair and looking around for an
avenue of escape. “That’s Bella!”
“Quick, this way,” whispered Saddler as
he seized the old man by the arm and thrust
him into the overcoat press.
Brander recognised the knock assertive.
“Come in!” he called, rising to receive the
latest arrival.
In stepped a tall, elegantly-costumed,
elderly female. Her menacingly feline ex-
pression abashed Brander for the moment.
“Are you the reporter?” she asked in
ten-below-zero tones.
“One of them,” said Brander.
She flourished a copy of the Tocsin in
a twenty-seven-and-ninepenny gloved hand.
“I see in your paper this morning a certain
Eric B. Canterville fell off the wharf last
evening and was apprehended for—for in-
ebriety.”
There was a dull thud in the overcoat
press.
“Well, madam?” stammered Brander, with
confused visions of furies, dancing dervishes,
mad mullahs and other frenzied human
shapes.
“Who is this—this Eric B. Canterville?”
demanded the lady in a voice with the
frigidity of an ice-barbed winter-blast in the
roaring ’forties.
“Permit me to explain,” said Saddler
stepping out of the background and offering
the lady a card.
She took the card, and scrutinising it read
aloud :—-
ERIG B. CANTERVILLE.
Sydney.
Then she turned to Saddler with an expen
sive smile (full set). “I’m so very, very
sorry, sir, but it’s really wonderful. I was
afraid there was only one person of that
name in Maoriland.”
“I’m embarrassed and—sorry, too,” re-
plied Saddler. “I’m on a visit to friends,
and I’m —I’m here endeavoring to stop any
further publicity.”
“I’m delighted—l beg your pardon, I’m so
sorry; yet I'm glad it’s you—l mean I’m
awfully pleased it’s not someone else.”
The lady rustled a retreat with Brander
escorting her to the stairway.
When the latter returned he found Saddler
supporting Canterville, all limp and pallid.
“I’ll be better in a minute, my boy,”
said Canterville. “But, by heavens, you’re
a brick! Where’s that other blackguard?
What a narrow escape !”
“Sixty pounds a week !” muttered Saddler
solacingly.
THE MATERNAL INSTINCT.
“Yes, you're right. She’s positively a splen-
did mother. Doesn’t cure WHAT she
pays a girl to look after the children.”
Five minutes later three men hurried out
of the Tocsin office into a covered-in taxi.
“Straight to the Belgravia!” shouted the
oldest of the trio as he slammed the door and
pulled down the blind.
IVAN M. LEVY.


M
; )
ZOZock Hill
A
hs\\
m
m
m
•;.V?
On
VnO
S*o
\rOO
Quarry
ne
The
Broken Hill Proprietary Company Ltd.
Mine Owners Iron and Steel Masters.
CJi
' ** **~*«' v , •
I ».C^’»v~ w
■HI . " 1
...... ' ■ ■
-f *: v
- ■
, : v .... .
''- i» voLr, 2 * ->. S3 ■ .-<■ I &fiB£esJ S*. i 3*^so
VIEW OF THE STEEL WORKS AT NEWCASTLE FROM THE RIVER HINT Ell.
The products of the Steel Works comprise:
Pig Iron: various grades. Structural Steel.
Billets and Blooms. Merchant Bars.
Rails and Fishplates. Wire Rods.
Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
Branch Offices:
LONDON: 3 Great Winchester Street. SYDNEY: 25 O’Connell Street.
ADELA!DE: 75 King William Street.
Works:
NEWCASTLE: Iron-Steel Works. BROKEN HILL: Mine.
IRON KNOB: Ironstone Quarries.
Head Office : Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
V •/#
C/;
In
connection with the
NEWCASTLE STEEL WORKS
employment' is found for
4500 men,
and the wages approximate
£685,000 per annum. . v
.V l';
The ' %
output from the
NEWCASTLE STEEL WORKS
for the year ended 31st May, 1919,
was:—
Pig Iron .... 155,000 tons.
■\N. Steel Ingots. .178,000 tons. .. ; y
>


The Planet of Life.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN .]
Alfred Russell Wallace held that, in the Cos-
mos, the Earth is the only sphere suitable to life.
SOMETIME to the soul of man was
brought
The wonderful legend, the star-born
thought,
Of a deathless rhythm ordering all —
That God made a harp with strings of light
And, quiring majestic in His vast hall,
The stars in their courses sing in their
flight.
Vibrating harmonies, chants supreme,
Beyond man’s soul and its utmost dream,
Vast seas of music and fields of song
Where his deepest visions never trod
Are born of the stars as they sweep along,
The deep, eternal dreams of God.
No passion sounded, no fierce desire
From this marvellous harp of Song and
Fire,
No suffering born of Life and Time,
Not a discord sired by Pain had birth
Until, piercing the peace of that chant
sublime,
Was lifted the passionate paean of Earth.
The sands of this beach where the ripples
lfia.V
Were solid rock in a bygone day,
When the stars were young, new-made the
earth,
And no life stirred in the primal sea.
Or ever a tree had come to birth,
And man was a dream of the years to be.
And after a million years take flight.
And he shall have passed like a dream of
night,
A lost leaf borne on a careless stream,
A wave far spent on a desolate shore
At the feet of the Dreamer who dreamt
the dream.
These sands, they say, shall be stone once
more.
And Earth all empty of life again.
Of love and sorrow, of passion and pain,
Her cities crumbling on deserts wan
(All bird-song ended, and trees green-
tressed),
Shall sweep the same as in ages gone
Ere Life had come to drink at her breast.
But no! Until Time shall have reached its
Though the Planet sainted by Life shall roll
For countless aeons, deflowered and old.
And the Life which once grew quick in her
■womb.
Like the fires in her weary heart grown
cold, .
Forever lies dead in an icy tomb,
Yet her song shall be richer than songs
that fall ■ - ~
At the feet of the Master and Maker ot all
From the circling systems of stars serene;
For great, more great, than the stars abore
Is the world where a smile and a sigh
have been.
And the marvellous heart of Man, and his
love.
N.s.w.
P. E. QUINN.
The Road to China.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN .]
TO old Molly Dagan, the Wise Woman,
who lived in a wattle-and-daub hut of
small proportions just about where
Wentworth Avenue in Sydney joins up with
Liverpool-street to-day, but where in 1797
was timber and scrub, there came at dusk
a shifty person of Hebrew and Houndsditeh
extraction named Isaac Mallarky. He came
on business, and lie carried a copy of that
DISCRETION.
THE LITTLE DOG’S OWNER : “Huh, my pup can wallop your big stiff.”
THE BIG DOG’S DO.: “ Nah, he carn’t!”
THE L.D.O .: “Well, if he don’t, I’ll wallop you!”
THE B.D.O.: “ M-m-my dory don’t w-wanner fight.”
popular novel by Mr. Oliver Goldsmith,
“The Vicar of Wakefield,” in his hand. With
an air of secrecy and importance, after hav-
ing carefully closed and secured the door,
he drew a stool to the rough slab table on
which a rush-light glimmered dimly, and sat
himself down opposite to old Molly. She
regarded him a little sourly.
“Well,” she croaked, “well, me pretty
Jewboy, ha’ ye done it? Ila’ ye made th’
map?”
Mr. Mallarky, lately an articled clerk to
a London architect, whose speculations with
the firm’s petty-cash had ended disastrously,
so that he was now a prisoner of the Crown
and draughtsman in the office of Mr. Deputy-
Surveyor Grimes —Mr. Mallarky opened the
book and took from between its leaves a
folded paper, which he spread upon the table.
—“ ’Tis here, mother, an’ ’tis in all respects
a good one. ’Twill guide y’r bold lads
famously, I promise ye. If they cannot find
the way to China with this for to help
them, then I’m no map-maker,” he chuckled
mirthlessly. “ ’Twill serve them as well as
anything else will, at any rate. They’ll get
to Chiny as well with it as with aught else.”
The old woman grinned as she took the
queer chart in her skinny hands and held
it close to the light.
“ ’Tis a pretty map, Ikey—’tis a famous
one, as ye say, an’ there’s th’ cannikin of
rum I promised ye. Over there in the
corner.”
With an appearance of distrust that was
characteristic of him, Mr. Mallarky groped
in a dark corner at the back of the hut, and
brought to light a stoppered tin-can. lie
put it on the table, and surveyed it disap-
provingly. His lean features displayed a
mixture of greed and doubt that was not
lost upon old Molly.
“ ’Tis but barely a gallon,” he said. “Ye
promised me two.”
“Ye lie. ye anti-Christ. I did not.”
She stood up and pointed to the door.
“Come now, mother,” he began, a little
fearfully.
She interrupted him. “Take it and go.
Be glad ye got it at all. If I show this
paper to Cap’n Hunter ’twill do ye no good,
my pretty. No good at all. ’Tis out of
Mister Grimes’s office and into the labor gang
—mebbe to Norfolk Island—for ye, if I do
that. An’ a sore back for ye, ye white-
livered scum, ye. ’Tis Gov’mint paper, an’
Gov’mint ink, an’ Gov’mint time ye’ve bin
a-wastin —bin a-stealin- —for to help
absconders. See ! Take it and go. me little
Jewboy, while ye’re safe. Get out.”
Gulping his large Adam’s apple up and
down, but too frightened to argue further
with the terrible old woman, Mr. Mallarky
put the can of rum under his jacket, and
slipped cautiously into the shadows.
Molly barred the door after him, and
seated herself at the table. “Th’ d—d im-
perence!” muttered the old woman, as she
fell to studying the map.
Half an hour after the departure of the
cartographer, a low whistle sounded outside.
Hastily folding the map, she hid it on a
shelf, and shuffled to the door. When she
opened it a little man, clad in the tattered
garments which were universal among the
convicts, slipped into the hut as though he
dreaded being seen. “Shet th’ door, ole
dear,” he whispered huskily. “Ye don’t vant
a covey for to be pinched, does ye?”
“Oh, ’tis you, Jimmy the Rat, is it? Sit
ye down. I was a-waitin’ ye. I’ve got it.”
“Gawd!” he whispered. “ ’Ave ye. ole
dear! You're th’ right sort, you are —blime
hif y’ ain’t!”
“Have ye got th’ money, Jimmy?” she
asked him.
He took a little bag from the bosom of his
shirt, and emptied half a score of Spanish
dollars on the table. Avariciously the old
woman raked them to her and counted them.
“The count’s right,” she said. “Here’s the
map for ye.”
The little man snatched it eagerly, and
spread it on the table. He examined it with
deep interest, knitting his brows and frown-
ing as he strove to master it. After a while
he spoke.
“An’ this covey vot made it, ole dear —
’e got avay to Chiny, did ’e, all safe an’
c’rect? ’Ow’d ’e send it back to ye?”
“A ship’s cap’n brought it. Jimmy,” she
said impressively, “and he told me that th’
man who made it was a-doin’ well in Chiny.
’Twas a long walk, but ’twas worth it. He’s
a free man'now, an’ rich —an’ he wants to
help all he can to get away from New South
Wales. He promises them th’ best of every-
thing. When d'ye start?”
“I gits back to Toongabbie this night, ole
dear, an’ in abart three nights more ve cuts
our lucky. First of hall, ve’re a-goin’ to
kill big Sparks, th’ hoverseer. Then ve
makes to th’ Oxberry, an’ int’ th’ mountings.
Wi’ this ’ere map, vich Hi can read —bein’
a heddicated covey—ve’ll get ac-rost ’em an’
onto th’ road t’ Chiny. Then ’tis plain
sailin’.”
“Who goes with ye?”
“Young Johnny Cobley. Tat Maguire an’
Sandy Farquhar. Plenty big enough. Ve’ve
got a gun an’ some powder an’ ball, vich Hi
prigged from Mister Macarthur’s farm, an’
some food. Yen ve comes to this ’ere town
acrost th’ mountings ve’ll be hall right.
Veil, I’ll be a-movin’, mother. Thankee for
th’ map.”
“Yi welcome, Jimmy,” she croaked, with
a twinkle in her black eyes. “Good luck
to ye. Ye’ll send me word from Chiny,
won’t ’ee, dearie?”
“In course, ole dear, in course.”
The little Cockney went out into the night
and disappeared in the timber.
“Th’ fools!” muttered the Wise
Woman as she shut the door. “Ten dollars
—an’ half Ikey’s rum’s water? He, he, he!
’Twas easy made!”
* * * *
Mr. Timothy Sparks, overseer of the clear-
ing-gang at Toongabbie, having been found
with a split skull, somewhat ignominiously
stuffed into a hollow tree, it became neces-
sary for Authority to make inquiry as to
the manner of his decease. And Authority
came to a conclusion, on excellent evidence,
that the said Timothy. Sparks overseer of
labor, had been feloniously slain by one
or other, or by all together, of prisoners
James Hillet, known as Jimmy the Hat,
John Cobley, Patrick Maguire and Alexander
Farquhar. who had become absconders. In
a Government and General Order, his Excel-
lency Captain John Hunter, R.N., enjoined
THE UNPOPULAR ROLE.
“ Mother, the hoys won’t play fair! Do! have to be an empress or a czaress the whole
time?”
upon all well-disposed, persons the necessity
of being active in the apprehension of the
said Dillet, Cobley, Maguire and Farquhar,
whom he further declared to be outlaws and
bushrangers and evil-disposed persons.
And so we find this desperate quartette
encamped upon the western bank of the
Nepean,, not far above the present railway
crossing, at the close of a hot day in January,
1797. A map —one of the most curious ever
made —was spread upon the ground, weighted
down at each corner by a stone, and Jimmy
the Rat was expounding it to _ his com-
panions-in-outlawry, using a stick as a
pointer, and a lively and optimistic imagina-
tion as the principal material for his equally-
curious explanation of its mysteries.
It would have been hard to discover in
all the settlement a more representative
group of the convict class that might be
termed “unfortunate.” Jimmy Dillet, dock-
rat, gutter-snipe and arab, had been of neces-
sity a thief from babyhood, and had had
criminality, as some men have greatness,
thrust upon him by society. Cobley was a
Devonshire lad, who had caught a rabbit
on the squire’s demesne; Maguire was. a
simple Irish peasant who had, with no ill-
feeling in the world, broken a neighbor s
head at a country fair, and had only hit
him a little too hard ; and Farquhar. a Scot-
tish drover, had had a calf stolen from him,
and been held to account for the loss. None
of the three young men were criminals.
They had been sent round the world and
into" hell for trespasses against the moral
code that would hardly be taken notice of
to-day. Poverty and ignorance had been
their' birthright, and they had come into
their bitter heritage of felonry almost before
they had reached manhood. Jimmy the Rat
had the native sharpness and shrewdness of
the Cockney, but he was no more able to
realise the fact that there was no road to
China over the Blue Mountains than were
the poor rustics who had appointed him
their leader in traversing its rough length.
“ ’Ere we are, boys,” he lectured import-
antly, “ ’ere we are. This ’ere lot o little
hup-an’-down strokes stands for these ’ere
mountings, an’ this cross marks vere we are
now. All we’ve gotter do is for to folly
this ’ere red line hover th’ top of ’em. huntil
we comes to this ’ere town vots marked so
plain a child c’d find it. Th’ folks there’ll
see to it we ’as heveryfink vot we wants —
’orses, mebbe. an’ togs, an’ plenty rations for
th’ journey. Then we keeps lion along th’
red line, an’ bv-an’-bye we comes to Chiny,
vere we’ll be safe from them bloody tyrants
back in th’ settlemint. To-morrow mornin’
we makes our start.”
“Sure, thin, ’tis aisy it looks,” said the
Irishman hopefully.
“We’re so free as if ’twas Dartymoor,”
grinned the Englishman.
“Ali’m thinkin’.” said the Scotchman,
“we’re better in yon hielans than at yon
Toonagabbee. But ’twas an awfu’ price for
to pay for th’ paper, Jemmy —ten siller dol-
lars /”
So they lay down to sleep, with light
hearts and full stomachs —they had robbed a
settler’s hut at South Creek —sure and con-
fident that a free world lay before them
across the dark hills. Behind them they
knew that there was but one thine that was
certain—-the gallows. But a single circum-
stance alone would have sufficed to make
their slumbers easy. They had a good con-
seiousness of having freed for ever then
fellows in the gang from the brutalities
Mr. Overseer Timothy Sparks. It was
p ] eaS ant to dream of his bloody head, and of
tbe k: c k s they had bestowed upon his corpse,
before they had jambed it into the hollow
trefe ' A swe et lullaby, indeed—-the remem-
brai’ce 0 f pi s scream of craven terror as
jj m > s axe swun g over his bullet head,
F „,. nnhnr a deenlv religious man, muttered
farquhar, deeply hig eyes .
Corning came, with birds singing in the
sh^X l^^p m ;i U q U iet river, and the rosy
■ . .1 Kiopk-ness of the lons
sunhght sof ening the blackness ot
glacis of the mountains L ttie a lsps o
mist floated in tlnn shreds above th | mother
o -pearl surface of the stream. lli o h up,
against the blue shy, an eagle soared on
steady pinions, and became an omen of great
hopefulness to the Celtic fancy oi Tat nek
Maguire. “ ’Tis a bird, thin, th’ fairies ha
sint, for to show us the way!”
When they had eaten they set their faces
towards the purple slopes, and climbed
slowly up the ridge through wet, long grass
and dew-drenched undergrowth. The euca-
lyptus and the wattle sparkled with diamond
points, and there was the aromatic scent of
the bush sweetening the fresh morning.
“ ’Tis a good road —-th’ road t’ Chiny .
murmured the Devonshire plough-boy.
“ ’Tis any road’s good that runs away
from slavery,” said Jimmy the Rat.
“ ’Tis a muckle stony one,” grumbled
Sandy Farquhar.
So the mysterious mountains swallowed
them up, as they had swallowed so many
desperate, driven souls and tortured bodies.
They disappeared in the shadows of the
dark forest, and all they left behind them
was the memory of “certain evil-disposed
persons.” And even that did not last very
long ' *
Four weeks after Jimmy the Rat’s
personally-conducted tour to the Far East
had disappeared over the foothills of the Blue
Mountains, Isaac Mallarky gave himself a
day’s holiday, and went fish.ng. lie had
come to the Hawkesbury upon the stall of
Mr. Deputy-Surveyor Grimes, whose tents
were pitched on the right bank of the river,
close to where the rapid Grose pours its
green torrent into the muddier waters of the
main stream. Mr. Grimes having been sum-
moned to Sydney on business with the
Governor, the faithful Ikey had temporarily
abandoned the map of the surveys of land
grants upon the river flats which had brought
them into the district, and reflecting that, for
the sake of his health, a little relaxation was
essential, and that fresh fish found a ready
market in the settlement at the Green Hills
(which is now Windsor), he found himself
very contentedly practising the gentle art of
Izaak Walton in a deep pool near the junc-
tion of the two rivers. He sat in the shade
of a whispering she-oak, and opposite him
was a little gravelly beach that was lit
brightly by the morning sun—just such a
spot as a water-sprite might have selected
for a playground. The poets were familiar
to Mr. Mallarky, and more than once, as
he fished, he found himself wondering
vaguely whether there were such things as
nymphs and dryads in New South Wales.
An eel having taken his bait, he was in-
tent upon his hook, when he suddenly heard
a hoarse voice across the water exclaim
“Hi!”
ill’. Mallarky looked up. and became
aware of a very singular-looking satyr, who
knelt upon the little beach. He had a gaunt
face that was fringed by a ragged red beard,
and he was stark naked and phenomena 1 ly
thin. The muscles of his neck showed like
cords beneath the skin, his collarbone stood
out sharply, and each rib was easily to be
counted in bis thorax, which over-arched a
strangely shrunken abdomen. His legs were
bony spindles, and his arms like wire. His
eyes burned brightly in deep caves, and his
face was like a death’s-head. He was a
very startling apparition to Mr. Mallarky.
(Continued on page 4-1 •)


HfSP
mmsmm sas? - • •
n. ,
♦
as
«f ?H4ft
•S.-•••--'vi; *
tfSB
•; *'V‘ 4#
Ik' '')f’ I 4
.'4 *v *- ’-■a. *?<» < ’ - **>
|B*S“ ;
. •
■tm
99
m
fi
8
*
£
0
Hra
- -v
o
' '
' * V * w Si
L ’ < • • '’ ,; ■' * '■' ‘
>< . ~. 4- ■>
I
u
.
mM.
■
•“>..* '# ■ 4‘
A K ' '
ifc-L I* *..*’. >..✓.. : . ' :
iV <t
.
V/
> ’, I 111
'<: ■.'■• •* I<«P
IS
Si
■
r SI
..r
NW
'
m
■* ■
I>. jj 1
-....!
.
-
. ■
mz.
-•
m
%
y.r
■
agwis
Mm
ZA
ffi
PM*
-
m
-
:. V.fei
f iJ I
1
'
4
@
*&&$! !£
m&y.-i .
im
j
*>
♦
- ■
%
>;' S ' S/tSS *', 'S,,V
, - * $ .
■£ * sfflSSxfc ' *
* *
it
'A «&_35 r
-
11l
ii
-vj.. ■
jamml
; ! '
t i
v%
*. j -. ■
■:t
ma&
c« -IS
11
lipil «£ *s§ I
3 ,i . ” ,
"■',yi.;',/s<c\.’• ' *s.<#!
SHE
r V--
■
A' . ' *
«*«?■ •
\
4^
- •
i
*S?\
:A' V
ifimr
m
"Ye3r* In,


On the beach beside him, under bis bony
fingers, lay a bloody and raw fragment of
some small and furry animal.
“Hi!” he croaked. “Come —an’—’elp me
acrost!”
Mr. Mallarky was half inclined to run,
thinking that the pitiful object before him
was of some other world than this, but the
glaring, burning eyes fascinated him, and
presently, having waded across a shallow
higher up—the river was very low —lie stood
beside the satyr, and saw that, whatever
it was once, it was now the skeleton of a
man, covered with a red and sunburnt skin
that was strangely and horribly stretched
over the bones.
Weakly the famished creature raised him-
self upon his feet, and put a thin arm about
Mr. Mallarky’s bottle shoulders. Great sobs,
that almost seemed to make the bony frame-
work creak and rattle, shook the gaunt
figure.
“Get me acrost,” he whispered, th’
ghosts are after me. Get me acrost,
ye, get me acrost.”
“Who’s after ye?” asked Mr. Mallarky—
and then lie screamed with pain and terror.
The man had snarled like a dog, and snapped
at bis hand with his teeth, biting him so
that the blood showed.
“Git me acrost, d —n ye. Quick!
They’re a-comin’ down th’ river. Hi ’ears
’em larfin’. Quick!”
Terrified, the Jew assisted him to the
crossing-place, and then down the bank to
where his fishing-tackle lay and the little
bundle containing his lunch, for which he
had levied upon the private larder of Mr.
Deputy-Surveyor Grime*. The starving man
seemed to discern what it was as soon as lie
saw it. and fell upon it like a dog, tearing
the cotton handkerchief with his teeth, and
wolfing the bread and meat in great gulps.
“Gawd!” he gasped, when he had swal-
lowed every scrap of the food. —“Gawd!
That’s good!”
He fell to weeping again, and mumbling
incoherently about high cliffs, and vines, and
his dead companions, who were, in his
delirious fancy, chasing him, to make him
show them the road to China. The latter
was the recurring burden of his ravings.
“Th’ road t’ Chiny.” he kept mut-
tering—“th’ road t’ Chiny. Th’ lyin’
map—th’ • lyin’ map !”
Mr. Mallarky, his curiosity outrunning his
natural discretion, made a statement that
had a terrible result for him.
“The road to China?” he said wonder-
ingly. “A map! Why, I made a map of the
road to China.”
The effect of these words was electrical
upon the naked man. They seemed to
endow his feeble body with a strength that
was out of all proportion to its wasted
condition. He sprang to his feet, glared at
air. Mallarky, and, with a convulsive spring,
had him by the throat with his bony fingers
in an instant.
“Hell!” he screeched. “ You made it, ye
dog!”
It was soon over. Mr. Mallarky, coward
to his backbone, made only a feeble resist-
ance. The vyce-like grip upon his windpipe
never relaxed until he was dead, and when
he had him lying still upon the grass, the
wild man who had murdered him tore with
his teeth at the face in an insane fury.
When his rage had calmed a little, he
ripped the clothes.from the corpse and threw
them into the riven. Another spasm of
maniacal hate seized him. With Mr Mal-
larky’s own clasp-knife he mutilated the
naked corpse in a fashion too horrid to
hint at here. When the sun sank behind
the mountains he was still dancing about his
victim, shrieking curses at the horrible
thing lie had made of the map-maker.
Into the guardhouse at the Green Hills
towards 10 o’clock on that summer night
there staggered the strangest figure that Cor-
poral Bilson had ever seen. He gasped with
amazement
“ ’Ere Hi ham .” yelled a naked and blood-
smeared living skeleton. “Back from Chiny
Ang me, an’ be to ye!”
He dropped something heavy on the floor,
and into the dim circle of the lantern li<>ht
rolled the head of Mr. Isaac Mallarky, carto-
grapher.
J. H. M. ABBOTT .
The Vati Tana.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN .]
SEVAVI, the little boss Iviwai, strode
up the bamboo steps into the grass-
house. “Taubada,” he said, “more
better you married along Gaile girl.”
Savoran—Major Savoran, D. 5.0., with
bar—looked up from his nightly figuring.
“What name now?” he asked.
“Altogether boys been run away.”
This was a last straw. First there had
been great difficulty in getting native labor
for this new plantation he was opening up ;
and then came the outbreak of tropical dis-
ease which often follows the breaking of
fresh soil, attended by the bolting of all the
hands lest they too should die of this pourri-
pourri. The grass house leaked damnably,
giant frogs croaked incessantly, and all tlie
night-owls in Papua hooted around him like
lost souls. And now all the boys gone!
“God,” he said, “what’s the good of it!”
He’d give in. But the spirit of his people
spoke softly. He, Savoran, D. 5.0., who had
held the Pious Douve salient! He give in-
beaten by a handful of niggers? No!
Sevavi, in his Sunday walkabout, had been
to Gaile, five miles through the jungle up
the river. There he saw the young men
of the village lounging about in their
ramis with nothing to do but prink
themselves out in paradise plumes and
paint their faces. All day and half the
night they quarrelled and danced. In the
old days they tilled their sago swamps and
gardens, and hunted their food, and fought
and killed —which led to the survival of the
fit test. Now a paternal Government found
them in food and a Magisterial Department
to settle their squabbles. .
So it came to Sevavi, this little black
Tew from the West, that Devara, the vil-
lage belle, had many male relations. Why
not his taubada marry her, so that her
people would come and work for him? Other
white men had done it.
Devara was the usual type of village belle,
amber-eyed, with a mop of coral-bleached hair ;
a supple, well-rounded little figure, tricked
out in several grass ramis; a soft little
voice in speaking, and gentle, appealing
ways. True, Simbiri, the village constable’s
woman, called her the Vati Tana —the vam-
pire. But then Simbiri hated her. So in
DISINTERESTEDLY CONCERNED.
SYMPATHETIC FEMALE: “Don't take Ethel's refusal of marriage so much to heart —
you'll soon get over it."
LITTLE MR. KNUTT : “Oh, I’VE got over it all wight. But I can’t help feeling weally sorry
for HER, poor girl—I won't ask her again.”
the end Savoran married Devara. Native
fashion.
Within a week all her mon-folk were
working on the plantation. And all her
tribe had quarters within sound of the kai-
kai shell. Devara herself sat in a cool cor-
ner of the verandah combing her hair or
stringing sapi-sapi. No native woman mar-
ried to a white man would demean herself
by cooking or washing, or the mere looking-
after the house. That is white woman’s
work. Devara was waited on hand and
foot, as is the custom, by her personal at-
tendant. She took the women of her tribe
into Moresby and spent hundreds of pounds
in the trade stores on them for any fool
thing they fancied. Savoran didn’t seem to
care —which seems to be the way with
white men mating with native women. And
Devara didn’t care either. She lived softly.
At Gaile she would have had to fish for
crabs and cook the rice, thoughtfully pro-
vided by Gubiinent. And Savoran never
pulled her hair as Itahu would have done
had she been his wife. She was satisfied.
And Savoran began rather to like her. Her
little soft voice and little soft ways were
faintly sweet.
So it went on for three seasons.
Then Savoran took fever badly and had
to go south for treatment. Denise Ray,
the sister who by chance nursed him, had
been on special duty with him when he had
shell-shock so bad in France. This time
they fell in love. Savoran and she married.
White-folk fashion.
A nice woman, Denise: good—not cloy-
antly so ; wholesomely. She was fresh and
sweet as an Australian morn when the dew
WHEN THE AEROPLANE SERVICE ARRIVES.
THE BIRD: “Curse these new-fangled inventions! A gentleman can't fly down his own
main street these days in safety .”
is on the grass and the magpies warble in
the gum-trees. Savoran left her in Moresby
while he went down to Kou-mana to arrange
quarters for her; and, incidentally, to dis-
perse Devara.
Most of these native-fashion marriages
break easily when the white man goes back to
his own. In this instance it didn’t. The
lady cut up rough. She sulked long and
sullenly. Not that she cared for Savoran,
as I said before. lie wanted to throw her
away—which made a fool of her in the eyes
of the kikennis she had crowed it over. She
refused to go. So one night, when Savoran
was away at Etaki, Sevavi took her by her
highly-cherished hair and ran her back to
her village. Within a week all the Gaile
boys followed.
A new recruiter got Savoran a hatful of
Wabada boys. They are good workers, and for
a while all went well. Denise loved the plan-
tation. She kept house and made cakes. In
the cool of evenings she wandered about and
gathered the most beautiful begonias in the
world that grow on the hillsides in Papua,
and caught silver-fish with her hands in
the moss-trailed mountain pools. She and
Savoran were happy.
Three moons, and the thunderbolt fell.
The young tobacco-plants dried up and died.
The cocoanuts dropped off when they were
about the size of tennis balls. A little later
ben-beri broke out. Three nights running
a shrill, high voice from the edge of the
jungle called out to the Wabada boys to
runaway—thatthewhitewomanhadpourri-
pourried them. And stones fell on the roof
of their huts; which is Papuan for death,
Urupi, headboy of the Wabadas, went sick,
mostly of fear. Denise gave him a medicine!
Unfortunately he died. Which proved it
about the white woman. Next dawn when
Sevavi blew his whistle to call the boys to
work none came. Then Denise took fever.
AYhen she was well enough to travel Savo-
ran carried her in to Moresby, where the
dearest and best women in all the world
took her to their homes and nursed her and
cared for her. He left her with them,
Three nights after his return to Ivou-
mana Devara came to hand—in her old place,
the cool corner of the verandah. Savoran
turned her out. She came again. If she
were not there it seemed as though she were,
Savoran was hag-ridden.. He began to drink.
Not much. But each day a little more. One
night he saw a black scorpion on his bed.
* * . *
Denise was dining at Government House,
She looked up and saw Savoran framed in
tho doorway that opened opposite her into
the gorgeous Papuan night. She saw him,
Savoran, D. 5.0.. who had held the Pious
Douve salient, shivering with fear and hold-
ing out his hands to her. “I must go home,”
she said to the Governor. “Will you lend
me a boat?”
H.E. smiled in his courtly way. “You
young wives,” he began.
“I must go,” said Denise. “Now, at
once.”
It was all very unorthodox. But then
Papua is the land of the far-away and the
unconformable. Within an hour she had
gone. Mr. Patrol-Officer Gurney accompany-
ing her.
All through the tropic night they sailed
and rowed along the coastline. One could
feel the silence. Even the boatboys scarcely
spoke.
As dawn broke with its million of cicadas
and bird-cries they reached the Kou-mana
landing-place.
* * * *
Savoran hated scorpions.
He snatched up a scrub-knife and struck at
it. The scorpion disappeared—and lay where
he next looked!
“My God,” he said, “I’m mad.”
Then he loaded his service revolver.
Denise was just three minutes too late.
S. S. SEVERN .
Impression.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN .]
THE little lady is (how shall one say?)
Composed, but sparkling, a capricious
girl
Who shows a brilliant surface that one
thinks
Still hides a rock of steadiness underneath.
She’s slender, winsome, gracious, dignified;
A dignity unfeigned and natural
That has its special charm, being of all
Her qualities that shine the least self-
conscious.
She’s pretty, with a something added that
Is beautiful by moments. She’s no gawk,
Has no harsh angularities, no burrs
To mark the hoyden. Now and then one
finds,
In that Smart Set so-called that is as dull
As mud in a trodden way, a girl like this,
An exquisite exception that redeems
The average of shrill spinsters or cheap
jades
That ape the style and manners of cocottes
Without the sly allurements that those
dames
Must keep as stock-in-trade. This little
girl
Is fine by nature and by instinct sweet,
Without a trace of insipidity.
She dresses well, and through the frocks
she wears
As daintily as a virgin saint wears virtue
You sense the delicate line and contour of
Her body’s visible poem. She has, of course,
The jargon of her class. She uses once in
a while
Such weapons as, did she but know their
nature,
She’d blush herself to death to think of
using;
But still she knows their nature very well,
Yet never dreams she knows it. This,
indeed,
The complex feminine, is in ’em all.
All have a little hit of Jezebel,
A larger bit of Lilith. All lay snares
Of gleaming flesh, however innocent
Their conscious thoughts. I would not
wrong this girl
By half a thought of mine. I think she is
As pure of heart as she is clean of body.
The sun shines softly on her and is proud
Of what it shines on. She will talk with
trulls
Bedizened to the eyes, and never guess
Their infamous trade. She’ll sit on bedroom
floors
And sup with scurvy rakes and liglits-o -
love,
Untainted by their nastiness. The God
Who made girls good, made perfect for them
this
Adorable armor of their innocence,
And never a shaft of Satan can pierce
through
Its joints while they stay honest. Now you
see,
Perchance, the girl she is. Her eyes ar j
wells
Of lambent light. Her mouth is a coy rose
Plucked from the Garden of Hesperides
With the dear dew still on it. Such a chin
She has as Psyche’s was when faintly
bruised
Upon her nuptial morning. Shoulders —
well,
What can one say of shoulders?—fragile, but
With confident strength in their fragility.
A torso that’s all nerve, with every nerve
Singing. Her legs a little longer than
The classic perfectness would have them, but
(I think) the legs of Chloe; Chloe’s legs
Serve well enough in the comparison :
I’ve been in love with Chloe fifty years,
And through the joy of fifty eternities
I’ll still sing Chloe’s praise, though not for
worlds
Would I abuse with flatteries this girl
Who’s worthy of better things. She is a dear
(That is, it seems, the term) ; her heart is
tender,
And sensitively responds to every cry
From out the depths of life. AVhen war
v made hell
Of this long-suffering earth, she wept for
those
Who fell; and those who faced the hordes
of Tophet
For such as she, she worshipped. More
than twice,
Maybe, she kissed them as they sailed away.
She donned her prettiest dresses and went
out
To work on street and platform for the
Cause.
She acted once, they tell me, in a shqw
Got up by the Red Cross, and proved the
worst
And stiffest actress that ever abashed the
moon.
What matters that? At least she did her
bit;
And knowing what she did it for. I am
Sorrier than ever I was not a soldier.
She is a very charming little girl;
Doesn’t know me from Adam ; has no truck
With journalists and such poor scum o’ the
pot.
If I were half my age. and could be prince
For twenty years. I’d woo her every minute
Of that delightful thousand weeks and
forty....
But what’s the good?
The Beast, however it goes,
May still pay to dear Beauty tribute, due,
And so this sketch is offered.
God is good.
N.3.W.
FRANK MORTON .


I
e Spirit of
cod fellowship
m
m
a
.r~
im
'rsi
&
.:-•
~~
%
Tl*
O-w
s
S--
Q
xenon
«■
*J£>- j
<sixpertetice
HARDY BROTHERS
Estab Ished 1853. JEWELLERS LTD*
Pearl
Necklaces
HARDY BROS. Ltd.
Specialise in
FINE WHOLE
PEARL
NECKLACES
and
SPECIMEN PEARLS
OF EXCEPTIONAL QUALITY
AND VALUE, TIIE DISPLAY
JS THE FINEST IN THE
COMMONWEALTH.
Prices Range from
£2O to £2OOO.
INSPECTION INVITED.
AN ILLUSTRATED CHRIST-
MAS CATALOGUE SENT PO&T
FREE ON REQUEST.
1 3 Hunter St.,
SYDNEY.
298 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE;
1 16-1 18 Queen Street
BRISBANE.
09I'N
r
A
m
/,
"XJi


A Canny Job.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN .]
And sae your name is Andy Lowrie,
And ye’re just frae the Carse o’
Gowrie,
Na; ye’re a clerk?
They’ve rowth o’ kye—but, mon, it’s
showery !
Aye, ye want work.
Weel, weel. I’ll dae the best I can
For auld lang syne, and Scotia’s clan;
I'll tak’ ye on (and here’s my ban’)
At fifteen bob ;
I wot ye’ll hae, as handy man,
A canny job.
Aye, lad, ye'll learn to milk a coo,
(There’s thirty-twa), and hand the plough,
Bigg sheds, and clear yon patch enough
Ayont the burn ;
The scrub is awfu’ thick the noo,
Where’er we turn.
Ye’ll mend the fences roun’ the hraes
(Deil tak’ the mare! She’s ane that strays) ;
Ye’ll chap the wood, and wash your elaes,
Clear oot the humpies;
And gie the Lord His lawfu’ praise—
And feed the grumphies.
But, fegs, ye’re saft —ower lang ye’ve
clerkit —-
Here’s guid advice gin ye’ll but harkit:
Spare not your toil till day be darkit,
At half-past seeven
(Forby ye’ll drive the pigs to market) ;
There’s rest in Ileeven.
Losh me, but ye’re a lad o’ sense
Wha’ll profit by experience
And lo’e the ways o’ Providence,
That’s mair than gear;
And tent my words wi’ diligence
As lang’s ye’re here.
When Sabbath .comes wi’ solemn face.
There’s cogs to scour, or steers to trace,
Just owrie jobs aboot the place—
Kirk, if ye want it.
And milkin’ coos is na disgrace,
The Lord be thankit!
Ye’re just frae hame. I’m glad to see
A braw Scots lad —lang may we ’gree!
Ye'll be ane o’ the family
Like Tam or Rob;
And hae. if sic a thing may be,
A canny job.
ENGLAND.
LOUTS ESSON.
The Language of Animals.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN .]
THE All-star Vaudeville Co. had met
the fate of turkeys at Christmas.
The alleged proprietor had not paid
salaries for months, nor even board for
weeks; and now, with £3 15s. Gd., the house
of the one-night season at Mt. Fatigue, he
had 'vanished. The advance-agent, who
was not in advance because there was
not sufficient money to take him, had
wrapped himself in dignity and a frock-
waisted coat, trimmed with imitation astra-
khan, and set out to walk the railroad sleepers
150 miles to Melbourne, or to some inter-
vening place with more Christian bowels
than Mt. Fatigue. Between him and his
objective were 150 miles of changing step
every fifth tie, of polar-bear weather, of
water, rain and moss. Yet with his head
held proudly, in discount of the last insult
of the latest hotelkeeper, he set his face
W.S.W. In his wake went the Simultaneous
Clog Dancers, two hatchet-faced men with
the smile of their act lurking about their
mouths; Poor Joi, the Human Frog; and
Nasmyth, the sepulchral bass. The two
comedians and their wives, East and West —
the trapeze turn—were of thrifty nature,
and they had enough for the railroad fares,
and accordingly departed in style. There
was left but Vox the Second —the World’s
Greatest Ventriloquist. His possessions were
a gladstone bag and its contents —a tooth-
brush and a shirt, 1500 roll tickets, his
press notices (yea, even to an honorable men-
tion in the Stockyard Creek Mirror) and a
wooden little figure in property dinner-
jacket : a figure with a wooden face painted
red as to nose, and opening most of its lower
jaw on a hinge, operated by Vox the Second
at the back of its head. The operation of
this hinged jaw was supposed to heighten
the illusion that the wooden head was speak-
ing ; and it deceived nobody but the man-
agers who engaged the ventriloquist to hold
conversation with himself.
Vox the Second, a young fair-haired man
of 30, had a sense of humor good enough to
help him laugh at trouble, even his own. He
saw the train depart with “East and West”
and their comedian husbands, and he
laughed; and he watched the procession of
the Down and Outs, headed by the advance-
agent in the mock astrakhan coat who now
advanced for the first time in two weeks, albeit
in the wrong direction. He watched that
pageant of gloom pacing the sleepers, and
skipping when they met the two close ones
—the skipping grotesque by reason of the
despair of their hunched shoulders—and
when they became so many dots and at last
disappeared in the rain-haze he laughed
again. And then he looked down at his bag.
made a mental inventory of its contents,
felt the one shilling, the sixpence and the
three pennies in his pocket, and laughed more
heartily than before. He could have joined
the procession of gloom; as a fact, the
artists who were on the home-trail had
begged him to join them as travelling court-
jester. But his own peculiar pride prevented
him returning to the city a failure. His
clothes were shabby, and lie stood up in
almost all he had; besides, lie knew that
his boots would not carry him out of the
moss zone. The knowledge prompted him
to examine the worst boot, the left. He
put his left foot on his right knee, and found
that the upper had left the sole on the inner
side, and that by moving his foot in the
boot he made the separation gape like a
mouth.
“Good enough,” said Vox the Second; “I’ll
do a new turn when I get back, ‘The Tramp
Ventriloquist,’ and I’ll make my old boot
better than the wooden image in the bag.”
He even rehearsed the new turn, leaving
the railway station for a seat under the
public-house verandah, and working the
mouth in the broken boot.
“llullo. boot,” said lie, “how’s the
weather?”
“No good to me,” wailed the boot. “When
you walk me on stones it hurts, and as soon
as I try to speak you walk in the mud and
fill my mouth with it.”
“Be proud of the foot you’re on, boot;
and shut up.”
"I’d rather be sewn up,” replied the boot.
• Vox the Second laughed at himself, as a
man with a wide, flattened, frog-like face,
and a mouth that was merely a slit gar-
nished with whiskers that grew in bunches
and looked like grey parsley, came to the
door of the hotel. He looked for two. and
saw one.
“Where’s the other bloke?” he asked.
“Just rode off,” replied Vox.
“I thort he mighta been a man I wanted
to work for me.”
“What sort of work?”
"Oh, light an’ easy—pullin’ corn, an’ cows,
an’ feedin’ pigs an' that, an’ a' little bit o’
corn-shellin’ at night.”
The ventriloquist’s ignorance was his
doom. It all sounded easy, and lie asked
“What wages?”
“Pound a week an’ tucker—good tucker,
too; beef an’ p’taters an’ punkins.”
“Will I do?”
The frog-faced man came on to the side
walk to study Vox’s points, and Vox saw
that his new employer-to-be disdained boot-
laces and tied his bluchers with binder-
twine. His trousers disdained the use of
many buttons also; and their owner dis-
dained appearances on general principles.
“Used to cows?”
“Often.”
“All right. I want a man to start now.
I got a spring cart ’ere, an’ as soon as
you’re ready we’ll go.”
“I’m ready now.”
ANYTHING TO IMPROVE THEM.
THE BUTTERFLY : “Do you believe in clubs for women?”
THE CAVE-MAN : “Most certainly, if they don't behave.”
“Well” —the cockie paused, and struggled
with himself, and was defeated. Emerging
from the battle without serious casualties
he capitulated, saying, “’Ave a rum?”
Vox agreed and his new master led the
way to the bar-room, and the rum being
duly taken he directed his new man to “bring
round the spring cart —baldy-faced ’orse in
the sharves, an’ grey pony on a houtrigger.”
Vox brought the melancholy horses
•around as the weather collected itself for
its daily noon effect of rain, and regarded
the baldy-faced horse in the “sharves” with
wonder. He was the most deliberate horse
in the world ; and his lower lip sagged three
inches, as if he were held back from weeping
only by fear. On the way around to the
hotel front he put down one foot in the mud,
and held up another, and waited.
“Good God !” said Vox. “He’ll hold that
foot up for keeps.”
But the cockie came to the door and said
“Garrup”; and the horse, recognising the
voice, made his lower lip sag more and more
tremulously and resumed the voyage.
They drove away from the township up a
hill made of moss, and slithered down
another made of jujubes mixed with lard.
Over the hills and into the gullies: and
after 10 long miles they drew up at dusk by
sliprails. The cockie had spoken only once
during the journey, being mostly engaged in
thrusting a stick with great nicety and pre-
cision at the root of the tail of the melan-
choly horse so that Vox began to under-
stand the tremulous lower lip of the bald-
faced one and to sympathise with him.
“Me name’s Beatty,” said the cockie.
“What’s vours?”
“Vox.”'
“Box?”
“No, Vox !”
“Funny name Vox! It ain’t like Beatty.”
"No; that’s why it’s like Vox.”
The cockie looked puzzled; but he had
his duty of prodding the root of the melan-
choly horse’s tail, and forgot to pursue the
subject.
Vox put the horses away in a paddock that
seemed all fallen, tire-blackened trees with a
little grass between. The Beatty mansion
was not pretentious—merely bush slabs for
outside, and the joints imperfectly lined ; so
that there were a dozen warring draughts
for any wind. There was a sitting-room
with the linings covered with grocer’s
almanacs, farm-machinery show-cards, a few
texts and photo reproductions from news-
papers ; a litho of the Battle of Magers-
fontein drawn by an infamous Japanese
artist and apparently printed in inks made
of blood and bile; a bush bookcase with a
few books of cow literature. There was a
bedroom for Beatty and his wife, a woman
made all skin and grief by work among the
big trees; and another room shared by the
daughter, a scraggy girl with fine eyes, and
her five-year-old brother, who was made of
puddings and the only fat thing on the farm.
Vox's speculations as to where he should
sleep were answered after supper of corned
beef and pumpkin, of which there was a
widow’s cruse that failed not three times a
day. Beatty led him outside to “the man’s
room,” next the cart-house, which was next
the fowlhouse, and nigh the dairy. Vox saw
a stretcher made of round bush timber and
cornsacks ; there were two blankets, and two
score, cornsacks for additional covering.
There were also a box for a chair, a broken-
lipped ewer, a pile of corn on the cobs wait-
ing to be shelled and a corn-sheller.
u Beatty gave him a holiday that night.
"V needn’t shell any, as it’s yer first night.”
he said. “Y’can have a good night in, an’
we don’t start till daylight.”
Vox sat down on the bunk and looked at
the corn-sheller, recognising it as his galley
and he the slave. But he‘laughed as usual
and slept well. In the darkness around
about midnight it seemed he heard noises
and awoke to find Beatty at the door holding
a lantern.
“Not hup yet?” asked Beatty almost
grumblingly. “Why, breakfus is on.”
\ ox excused himself and dressed in the
dark, and followed the departed Beatty into
the kitchen—a detached shack with a fire-
place nine feet wide and half a ton of feathery
ash stacked against the chimney back.
So slavery began every day with corned
beef and pumpkin, as it ended with pumpkin
and corned beef. Between dawn and night
there were cows with sore teats, the abomina-
tion exaggerated by Vox’s chilblained hands;
the melancholy horse to be driven with the
cow-product to the creamery—the horse that
became almost gay when he found that Vox
had neither the absence of heart nor the pre-
sence of stick to re-assault the sore spot at
the root of liis tail; calves to be poddied with
the skim milk on the return from the cream-
ery ; various and unending chores, and the
accursed corn-shelling machine, and the heaps
of cobs that seemed never to grow less. There
were also many predatory goats—five lady
goats and a noisome billy-goat whose scent
was the scent of decomposing pyrites. These
goats descended on the milk if the buckets
were left for a moment; and the perfumed
billy was a butter. Beatty punished this goat
by strategy. Twice a day he left open the
door of Vox’s bedroom-cornstore. Having
permitted the billy to enter, he followed him,
caught him in the door, and, holding him so
between the door and the frame, kicked
William behind the ribs until William was
beaten to a standstill. Released, William
lay down for an hour to recover his
wind, looking the while at Beatty with the
malevolent eye of a wicked old man; then,
having recovered, he waited for a fair oppor-
tunity to catch Vox stooping and butted
him violently. Vox retaliated with a big
stick, so that the goat scarcely had time to
recover before he was due for his corn-room
act again.
Vox hated it and bore it; for he was in debt.
On that first day he went to the creamery
he had to buy pyjamas and underclothing at
the store; also an oilskin coat to protect
him from the rain that was general and the
dews that were almost as heavy as rain.
Ilis oil coat was a black one, and the oiler
had discounted the lubricant by 50 per cent.,
so that it stuck to itself, or to the chairs
or to any other surface it touched. On the
day of his purchase Vox sat down at the
post-office to wait for the master’s mail:
and when he rose the coat said “Cre-eesh” as
it left the chair, and Vox replied “Don’t
tear it, Mr. Draper, I’ll take the piece,” so
that the postmaster thought him crazy. Sit-
ting in the cart on the way home Vox
laughed as he experimented with the coat,
which would scream but refused to tear.
“Listen to ray jujube coat,” said Vox,
moving so that the coat said “Crarkt!
C’reesh ! Quark !” And so he began to use
his old art, and found it bettered by disuse.
lie had been learning without knowing it.
The bellbird called him deceitfully from cop-
pices of musk and hazel, and unconsciously
he found himself as good a mimic as any
Australian bird. He tried a whinny oil
the horse, and the horse turned to him; he
essayed a growl on the dog and the dog
looked back, his neck hair bristling for a
moment. And every day on the way to the
creamery and home again he perfected his
art, knowing that he must go back to his
own life from this interminable and soul-
destroying slavery. He worked the month
and was out of debt; and then for another
month for the money to redeem him by pay-
ing his railroad fare. But on demand wages
were not payable.
“Y’ll ’ave ter stay er cuppler munce,” said
Beatty, “an’ then I'll pay ,v‘ orf.”
Knowing the uselessness of argument with
this dull obstinacy Vox laughed so that he
shouldn’t feel miserable. lie felt that if he
could not break awav by some violent means
Beatty would make him prisoner for life. So
he thought and planned, and laughed as tin 1
plan made itself look good to him.
Selecting next early rising, and while
Beatty stood near the carthouse, he knocked
a dozen liens off the shaft, the hens swearing
in protest.
“Watcher doin’ t’ ther chooks?” shouted
Beatty.
"Th(> damned loafers!” replied Vox. “I
get up two hours before they do. Why don’t
they get up early and lay eggs?”
“Leavemalone,” su'd Beatty. “They don’t
unnerstand. Fowls can’t think any more’ll
monkeys can’t talk.”
Waiting in the town store that day Vox
picked up a fragment of the Arabian Nights
with a page of that excellent story—but
bowdlerised of all its meaning—of the man
who.understood the language of animals, lie
chuckled to,himself on the drive home, as he
decided the application.
Beatty came to the yard as Vox put up
the horse, and gave him a half-measure of
corn, driving away the fowls that attempted
to rush the box.
“(let out with you,” said Vox, “you loafers.
Go and lay eggs.”
And then to Beatty’s wonder a heavy,
matronly lien—a buff Orpington with yellow
trousers and feathers to her toes —clucked
and answered, “Lay eggs ! What encourage-
ment have I to lay eggs? Just as soon as I
get a clutch started old Beatty eats ’em.”
Vox went away to laugh and Beatty
stayed to marvel.
.Also,. next morning, while Beatty milked,
with his head against the port side of a
cow and the milking bucket between his
knees, Vox in the opposite stall suddenly
punched his cow’s flank, and said, “Give
your milk, you obstinate brute.”
Beatty, looking over, saw the cow turn her
head to Vox- and heard her reply, “Give
my milk ! You take it all. What’s the good
of having a calf? Old Beatty’s nose-ringed
it to a bit of sharp kerosene-tin, and when-
ever the poor calf tries to suck a bit of com-
fort it hurts me so much that I kick my
own child.”
Beatty almost fell off the stool. He rose
and came over to Vox. and the smellful goat
made a strategic advance upon the un-
guarded milk-pail.
“Was you talkin’ to the cows, Fox?”
“Oh. yes.”
“An’ they un’erstan’ y’, too?”
“Why, yes.”
“How didger learn it?”
“I didn’t learn it—it’s a gift.”
“Mus’n’ teach the animals to be disrespec’-
ful; but—good Gord! look at that
goat!”
He sprang from the milk-pail, and the
William, his head white with milk, upset the
pail and leaped to safety, so that the dis-
embarrassed Vox was able to lean against
the cow and laugh till he cried. And he
laughed so much that he let up on Beatty
for a day.
He re-opened hostilities as he was harness-
ing up the melancholy horse at the door of
the corn-room, wherein Beatty was engaged
in the light occupation of sewing up the full
sacks. Beatty suddenly heard conversation
and listened, with the needle in the air.
“You’re a good horse,” said Vox. “Now
put this nice bit in your mouth.”
“I don’t like it,” said the horse.
“Why, that’s ungrateful. Mr. Beatty
bought it for you to play with, and it’s made
of nice iron that won’t break.”
“It hurts my tongue,” said the horse.
“Now, now, you mustn’t grumble. And
here’s your collar and a pretty pair of hames
for a necktie. It mightn’t be all you want
but we’ve all got some discomfort to bear.”
“I like you,” said the horse.
“I hope you like Mr. Beatty, too. What!
No answer? Now, now! Naughty! There’s
your saddle! Now lift up your tail for the
pretty little crupper! Poor old chap—is the
tail still sore?”
“Yes —Beatty drove me yesterday. But
you’re kind; I like you.
And Beatty stayed within, gaping and list-
ening for more.
Vox called the dog.
“Glad to come to the creamery with me.
Fido. alias Tiger?”
Fido, alias Tiger, opened his mouth and
yawned, and then stretched himself, with his
head on his paws.
“Glad to come. Tiger?”
“Yes.” said the dog. “Anywhere out of
here. If old Beatty kicks me any more, I'll
bite his ear off.”
Beatty came out threateningly, and the dog
slunk away, and the goats immediately mast-
headed themselves on the tallest stumps by
the cultivation paddock.
“You’re gettin’ these animals inter bad
’abits. Fox.” said Beatty. “There’s no res-
peck for me no more than you ’ave respeck
for the man that pays yer wag Q s.”
“Well. I’m ready to go, Mr. Beatty. Pay
me up like a man—unless all the animals said
of you is true: and then you won’t pay up.”
“I’ll pay yer, be cripes,” said Beatty in
cold rage. “An’ yer can get away ter-day.
Six pound it is.”
“Six pound twelve and six.”
“Orlright! Orlright! You get the cart
ready, an’ y’r swag, an’ we’ll get goin’. An’
—just a minit, Fox. If that billygoat says
anything about me he’s a flamin’ liar.
* * * *
The greatest ventriloquist act on record —
“The Tramp and the Cockie,” with real
animals and fowls that talk in a farmyard,
“exterior set full extent,” is booked ahead for
many a year—with props complete, horses,
cows, goat, fowl, the complaining boot and
the coat that says “C-r-r-r-e-e-s-h” when Vox
the Second rises in a hurry.
RANDOLPH BEDFOBD .


•5$
64
MS
99
Si
ft
V»c/
CjlT
s
J 2
v*.
&
v>,
Err
2t3
Wo
H
i
<\£ki
»
%
H
1
9
S
%
m
'//.
¥1
s§%
i
!
£
I
I
I
S§S
Up
Tr-
&:i
a
<v
s^l
5U
0
nm
5^
&
/
///
BOOMERANG'
THERE
AND
BACK
TYRES


£l3/10/
£l5/10/
mi
£llO,
Stewart
Dawson’s
The power of Ready Cash applied to
the huge Buying interests of the
Stewart Dawson Company is a most
potent factor in the Quality of the
Diamonds sold to their clients.
All their Diamond Buying is con-
ducted in Hatton Garden, ijondon, the
World’s Great Centre for Diamond Busi-
ness ; and as all the firm’s transactions
are paid for “cash on the spot” their
London Buyers are able to command the
pick of the gems.
Stewart Dawson’s
K 693. —Exquisite Diamond
and Pearl Cluster Necklet,
£22/10/-
Quality
Diamonds
Think of what this means in providing
for the requirements of Ten Large Estab-
lishments in London and Australasia,
and you have the secret of Stewart
Lawson’s Unrivalled Values in Diamond
Kings.
-All Diamonds set in Real Platinum,
and the Purity and Brilliance of the
Stones is guaranteed.
Call and Inspect at any of the
Stewart Dawson Establishments, or
Write for Latest Catalogue.
Establishments
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth, Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch, Dunedin.
Also Regent Street and Hatton Garden, London.
£5O.
£lO/10/
£l5/10/-
£135.
Eve.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN .]
COME, let me lead you to a spot I know,
A broad green plain where lakes lie
lily-decked,
And armed with stately reeds; the
sentinels
Long legged and beaked, immovable, sun-
necked.
Afar, yet seeming near, the mountains rise
h rom rounded foothills to the shining skies.
Clusters of trees stand here and there as
though
Gathered for gossip. See the messmate
tall
Bending to whisper to the silk-clad gum;
And hear her answer, as she shakes her
shawl,
And curtseys low, “Your vows may all be
true,
But I, dear sir, can yield no hope to you.”
Wild, soft-eyed cattle drink, and graze and
grow,
And wilder horses toss their manes and
neigh.
Arching their necks with many a backward
look.
Across the curtain of the mountains grey
A little mist puffs out, to pause and trail,
Spreading and floating like a bridal veil.
Love, where the wallaroos race through the
grass;
Love, in the reeds and on the busy lake;
Love, where shy birds nest in their fast-
nesses—
Ah. Love! Shall we alone no comfort take?
A bridal veil lies on the mountain side.
Uh, heed the omen, and secure the bride!
On opportunity e'en Love must wait—
Boor Love, who frets and faints in
crowded ways,
And fears the jostling humor of a throng.
But here are deep blue nights and rosy
days;
Soft languor alternates with throbbing bliss,
Ihe world forgotten in a perfect kiss.
Th f n .i loVe me > dear • this E den it is ours,
And you are Adam and my name is Eve.
Ihe world is young, and you and I alone;
a ,1 I , ieS - r i vl fade, there is no time to grieve ;
All the Earth loves—beloved, take my dower
Lord of my heart, this is my rightful hour!
QUEENSLAND.
BLACK BONNET.
Down North to the Gulf.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN .]
RAND, the square-jawed, moustached,
silent boarder, paid his hotel bill,
explaining that a wire had called
him back “up north.”
“I’ve been up north,” boasted the clerk.
‘Know Normanton ?” inquired Rand.
“No; where’s that? I meant Wodonga.”
What! —Oh, yes; Wodonga is up north!”
I* ll *- ll ari(^’s south ended a thousand miles
above Wodonga. He boarded his train and
travelled for four days, so that his travel-
worn brain, irked by restless sleep, became
a repository of vague impressions, of things
halt-seen, half-heard, as the train rushed up
north Out of the night he heard talk of
snow leases, of trout-fishing, of wheat cer-
tificates, of building ships. One night he
awoke to hear shouted over the beat of the
halted engine: “One thousand come-backs,
forward, in full wool.” And all day long he
found himself saying this over till he cursed
THE MILITARY CRITIC.
“And who’s the bloke the General’s just sent
away?”
“Oh, that’s — that’s the chief of staff. He’s
off to order the drinks.”
it heartily. For he was of the Gulf, and
tnese things conveyed no meaning to him.
Fvery day the sun had grown warmer;
each day new fruits and foods were served
to him. Stone houses changed to birch, then
to wood, built high upon piles. Sometimes
the tiain turned to east or west, as if seeking
diversion; but very soon it veered back
again, panting up mountains, thundering
down valleys, forever northward. Lifting
the window one night from his berth he
saw sea-water glory, with reflections where
men worked feverishly on ships by electric
light;. and the languor of the salt breeze
crept in, wanton-like, to embrace him. Next
day—it seemed a month later —the train
stayed on a mountain range at a station
where a red-cheeked man sold him red-
cheeked cherries, and the crackling, sharp
air drew him out, so that he walked about
briskly, wondering after why he did so, and
wondering how all these people lived who
were Australians too, yet alien to him.
At Gladstone the train ran alongside a
steamer, that soon slipped out of the harbor,
almost noiseless after the clangor of the rail-
road ; to turn again up north, through placid
waters, fenced by the Great Barrier. The
sun now shone with steady tropic warmth.
Palm-fringed islands reared, glowing, from
the sea and crept away to the south. Rand’s
face lit up as he hailed men from the Terri-
tory and Burketown, and he talked long
with them of crocodiles and cattle, of Boo-
rooloola and beri-beri, and such like.
Another day and he was at Townsville.
There at last he quitted going up north.
There was still a north extending 700 miles
to Thursday Island, but Rand’s road lay
west by train 400 miles to Gilliatt. It was
not a bad train, having a sleeper and refresh-
ment car attached, but Rand was glad when
he left it. Seven days after leaving Mel-
bourne he rode north again, on the road
“down north” to the Gulf. He
was a different man now, tense,
energetic, for this was his Aus-
tralia. Here he was marshal of
his destiny, determining his’ own
courses, no longer hurtled along at
the will of machinery. Y T ith the
morning sun on his right shoulder
he struck into those rich plains
where great rivers wend northward
—important rivers, with Nile-like
habits, that come annually, miles
wide, on Christmas excursions to
the sea. The wet season was not
yet due, but the early storms had
come and gone, leaving the plains
a-wave with green Mitehell-grass.
Rand rode through pea-bush that
had grown head-high in a fort-
night ; past great lagoons brim-
ming over ; past herds of cattle, sleek nomads
that followed the trail of storms and defied
man when he pursued them. Above him peli-
cans, wild geese, flock-pigeons and corellas
made their journey. By the river-stretches
great crocodiles basked lazily. Face on to the
monsoon that blew up from the Gulf, smell-
ing of sea, he rode, down north, to his home.
Burn, his head stockman, was there
patiently waiting. “I wired you,” he ex-
plained, “because Black’s gang, those poddy-
dodgers camped over in the forest, are get-
ting cheeky. We’ve got to do something.
A fortnight ago I tracked them where they
drove forty of our cows into a scrubyard,
and took the calves away to their country.
I followed them and saw them tailing the
calves. I couldn’t claim the cleanskins on
their land; but that night I sneaked up and
opened the yard. Most of the calves got
back, I think. I sent you that wire by a
policeman who was out here burying a man.”
“You didn’t tell the policeman?”
“No; what use? It’s up to us. Now
we’ve got three weeks’ branding to do urgent
down the river and want all hands. Soon’s
we start Black will raid up the river for
a haul.”
“Who’s in the joint with him?”
“Sandy and Durgan are in on a bonus
system with him ; then there’s two old ‘boys’
to help them. Durgan and one ‘boy’ are
here now attending musters
and spying on us.”
The men chatted awhile,
forming their plans, and
later, in pursuance of them,
Rand encountered Durgan
casually at his camp on the
river. It was characteristic
of the North that Durgan,
though knowing of the con-
flict between Rand and
Black, took, and was given,
tucker as a matter of
course; and that Rand and
Durgan conversed, squat-
ting, about wild horses, the
wet season and such like
things in apparent amity.
That evening Durgan rode
away, allegedly to muster
horses; which, like writing letters in the
city, may mean anything.
“He’s gone,” said Rand, “to tell Black
the muster down the river is starting.”
And so, next week, Rand’s full mustering
camp set out with a small army of horses
for the first camp down the river. After
two days Rand returned home, having got a
bad fall while riding with Burn, so Burn
explained. Two days later Burn saw a wisp
of smoke arise to the south. Instead of
sleeping that night he slipped off, caught a
horse and rode away, leaving instructions
privately with a trusted man.
Necessity had made Rand a reader of
signs. The way a tussock was crushed, or
a kitehawk hovering in the distance, had
definite meaning for him. After a day's
search he had found the marauders’ tracks,
and when lie sent the prearranged smoke-
signal be had guessed by Black’s movements
that a raid was scheduled for that night.
In the moonlight he saw the riders strike
across the river; and saw them coming back
at dawn with a mob of cows and weanable
HIS MASTER’S VICE.
calves. The river was a boundary between
their properties. Hidden in a gidya clump
he saw the men draft off the cows in an
old yard and take the calves away across
the river.
The beneficent law says that any clean-
skins belong to the person on whose land
they are found, unless mothered by 'cows
belonging to another owner. A cow will
invariably search for her calf at the spot
where it was taken from her. Hence the
poddy-dodger method of creating cleanskins.
Rand’s cows, when let out of the yard, would
frenziedly seek their offspring in the vicinity ;
meanwhile the; calves were driven far away,
tailed and yarded till they no longer bel-
lowed. Then they were branded.
An hour later Rand met Burn at the spot
pre-arranged.
“If we tackle them now they will gallop
off and leave us the calves. But I reckon on
doing something to them.”
“What?” inquired Burn.
“Don’t know yet. Let’s follow them and
see what happens. You not scared of their
shootin’ talk?”
“No,” grinned Burn.
Now, the complete poddy-dodger is an ex-
pert bush lawyer. If detected he has a well-
rehearsed plan of action, with poses and
attitudes that vary according to the progress
of operations. These attitudes are calcula-
ted to give a jury that reasonable doubt
which Gulf juries so generously extend to
cattle thieves. So, when the two confronted
Black a few hours later at his home yards,
he assumed the suave know-nothing attitude
correct for the occasion. With Sandy and
the two “boys” he was seated under an emu
apple-tt-ee. They betrayed little agitation,
save the blacks, who wandered away a little.
“Branding to-day?” inquired Rand.
“We might do some,” replied Black care-
lessly. He felt quite safe. He considered
Rand wooden-lieaded, whereas it was his
pride to be “smart.” His expression was
cunning. To steal without risk of gaol was
his business; to be thought a clever thief
was his ambition. Pie had come from the
South, 200 miles up the river, where the
police had made the solitude of the Gulf
look inviting to him. The law was his bul-
wark, and he preyed on law-abiding people
by using their law against them.
Rand tugged at his moustache thinking.
Black smiled.
“You’ve got some of my calves in the
yard, Black.”
“Oh? Well, of course, any you mother you
can have.”
This was the correct, within-the-law atti-
tude. Rand thought again, and Black
smiled again, anticipating an easy victory in
the discussion. Then Rand spoke what for
him was a speech of great length.
“Look, this talkin’ is no good. You’ve
come here and bluffed us with law talk and
‘prove it’ and so on. You’ve brought those
calves from my country except about 50 of
yours that you’ve boxed with them. The
law business is not working to-day. It
doesn’t protect me; see if it will protect you.
I’m going to brand all those calves, inclu-
ding ones you’ve drafted off your own
cows. You’ve got to have something besides
law behind you if you want to thieve down
towards the Gulf.”
Black’s leer vanished; his hand crept
towards his pocket, hesitatingly, but Rand
quickly produced an automatic.
“Take Black’s revolver, Burn,” comman-
ded Rand. “It might go off and hurt some-
body.”
Burn, perplexed, advanced to Black and
took a revolver from his pocket, Black not
resisting.
“Now,” pursued Rand, “we’ve got our
brands with us, and the day’s not young.
1 in going to tie up Black till we’re finished.
Here,” lie added, addressing Sandy. “I’ve
not much against you, Sandy. This Black’s
poddy-dodgin’ is done, and there’s
nothing in it for you. He’s only
a poor coot; his law-talk is busted.
Are you goin’ to stick to him?”
“Bah,” sneered Black. “Don’t
listen to him, Sandy. Let him
brand those calves or touch me,
and he goes to gaol. He’s bluffin’.”
“I dunno,” announced Sandy;
“This ain’t no business of mine. If
you stand up to one of these coves
I’ll have a crack at the other, if
they put away them guns. Is that
a go?”
“No,” decided Black; “let him
tie me up if he’s game. You can
resist if you like.”
Sandy, whose code was rather
mixed, was a believer in trial by
combat, and grunted. “To Hell
with yer! This joint’s no good
ter me. I’m standin’ out, unless,”
he added, “yer wanter try hitchin’
me up!”
Hurried thought on Black’s part evolved
no “attitude” to counter Rand’s direct
action. He dare not take Rand into the far-
distant courts, and Rand knew this. The
law’s ineffectiveness was now his weakness.
And this tying up would ruin his prestige.
He must submit. He smiled sourly.
“I give in, Rand. Don’t be so shirty.
Take your old cattle away. You’re too
smart for me.”
But Rand was a one-idea man. It was
too late to try flattery on him.
“No,” he replied. “I’ll tie you up. What
I say I do. I don’t trust you loose, any-
way.”
Here Black fled ; but Burn, with the in-
stinct of the chase, picked up a long head-
rope that lay beside him on the branding
pen, made a long shot, and in a minute
Black was firmly bound to a tree.
Rand, with a cheery word, enlisted the
black boys; the primitive mind always bows
to the master. Presently Sandy joined in
the branding, remarking: “Never sat down
an’ watched coves brandin’ yet!”
It was sunset when Rand and Burn drove
the cattle away. It was Sandy who freed
Black and forthwith demanded his cheque.
He added : “I’ve got a job with Rand. You
ain’t got no guts.”
With Black and his schemes checkmated,
that night Rand felt less pre-occupied. He
fell to thinking of his long journey up South
and down South; of the bustling throngs
down there, their talk of strange things, of
smells and coal-gas and massed humanity, of
the strange sounds that had intrigued his
hearing sense. “No,” he concluded. “I
wouldn’t like it.”
A traveller had sojourned at their camp
that evening. Lie had come from the
Peninsula, 400 miles to the north. His pack
bags were of greenhide. He talked of the
Staaten and Nassau and rivers further north
where the blacks still carried spears; of
salt arms and sandalwood; of beche-de-mer
and the lazy Gulf waters.
Rand had once been right down to the
Gulf, and remembered the great lagoons
covered with pink lotus-lilies and bordered
by giant palm-trees and other things strange
to him that called him like the want of a
woman or the smell of incense.
“You fellows up here in the South,” com-
mented the traveller patronisingly, “may
make money, and you’re near the railway and
doctor —only a hundred and fifty miles away
but give me the Peninsula. Plenty of
room there.”
“Yes,” agreed Rand apologetically; “the
old days are gone here. But,” pensively, “I
mean to sell out soon, and go right down
to the Gulf coast, and along to the Penin-
sula. North, down to the Gulf for me!”
A. P. ROGERS.


s
m
i.
■. s
Give a Kodak or Brownie to the
one you wish to please most.
For this Christmas
and all happy days to come
KODAK
A Kodak gives the opportunity for making that
most interesting of all stories—a picture-story.
And the day to begin that story is—Christmas.
Kodaks, for grown-ups, from 40/- to £l4/17/0;.
Brownies, for the children, from 10/0 to 28/0; Auto-
graphic Brownies from 42/0 to 77/0.
The 2c Autographic Kodak Junior —for small postcard
pictures—2£ x4| inches. Price 80/-.
No. 3 Brownie —for pictures 3i x 4J inches. Price 23/0.
Ask for the new Kodak catalogue, of all Kodak dealers
and
KODAK (Australasia) LIMITED
Incorporating Baker and Rouse Prop., Ltd.,
ml 9 ? r e ?, rge St l eet ’ Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne; 250-252 Queen Street, Brisbane;
lhe Valley; 37 Rundle Street, Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart; Ruthven Street, Toowoomba; Flinders
o.:’ Townsville; Denham Street, Rockhampton; Optical and Photo Supplies Co., Perth; 109-111 Dixon
Wellington, N.Z. (Wholesale) ; “The Kodak Corner,” Corner Lambton Quay and Willis Street,
Wellington, N.Z. (Retail) ; 3 Lome Street, Auckland, N.Z. (Wholesale) ; 70 Stuart Street, Dunedin, N.Z.
(Wholesale) ; 148 Lichfield Street, Christchurch, N.Z. (Wholesale).
£g&&gS£
jpsh»«S3£sB§S**4C3
'■< 'fclSP'’
I.JJWSf-^’^
fe>r^
1
it
■!gH*«BS
Is®**?
K
i- r:
%
r
rfSSB"
■*3^>
s®
3S>«*2
"S®
-OSS'
S'*
:• .•'
£^S*gS
,*■ ■••■
£3
r^S
5(5?.
&
*5?
■'•••'
“ k H*a
evEßEady
tiON-SULPHATINS
jTABTINC BAT.TERX
©
V
OR(J3
For Real Service
“ANSWER”
Spark Plugs.
A perfect Mica Insulation is the
feature that makes “Answer” Plugs
different —which gives them immunity from
all the ills of Porcelain Plugs and assures
longer life and greater efficiency.
This Mica Insulation neither cracks or chips
—the Mica really hardening with age, so that
in use “Answer” Plugs become more efficient
units. The Mica also acts as a deterrent to carbon-
ising and throws off all Carbon Powder before it
has a chance to accumulate.
Armature Windings and
General Electrical Repairs.
We solicit your general Electrical Repairs, Armature
Windings, etc., confident in our ability to do the
repairs in a thoroughly competent manner, neatly
and promptly. If you judge values from the atend-
point of “service rendered,
Moody’s is the logical place to
come to for repairs.
Allow Us to Overhaul
Your Magneto.
We will make it as good as new—
guaranteeing it expert overhauling that
will mean lengthy service for you from
the renovated Magneto.
Say Goodbye to Battery Troubles
Instal an Eveready Battery.
It gives the best service and greatest power
possible and guarantees COMPLETE
ELIMINATION OF StJLPHATION ON
PLATES.
It means that full porosity of the plates is
maintained—doing away with loss of capacity
or efficiency, whilst the battery lasts longer
with fewer rechargings.
No other Battery under a big power or small
power demand lasts longer—because the out-
put of the Eveready is much higher than that
of any other make.
We’ll be pleased to give you full particulars,
and can supply sizes and assemblies to suit
all classes of cars, and can supply all classes
of Motor and Electrical Accessories.
MOODY & CO.,
“Electrical Specialists,”
343 Kent Street, Sydney
’Phone, City 1710-1741.
The Rose Tyre Pump Gives
More Air with Less Work.
A patent valve apparatus does away with valve
troubles. Built to give lengthy service under even
roughest treatment, it neither jams or dents. All
parts are standardised, can be replaced promptly,
saving you the expense of buying a new pump.
Ask also about the Rose Grease Gun, equally reliable
and well constructed —illustrated below.


The
New
Motor
A
¥
The Greatest Improvement
In Riding Comfort
Since the Introduction
of Pneumatic Tyres
GARRATTS LTD*, 173-5 Elizabeth Street, Sydney,
The John N. Willys Export Corporation
165 Broadway, New York, U. S. A


wwvww
Wa
*
/
*
«
A
✓
A
A
A
y
/>
c
*
m
4^
3#
<5
1
BS
IS
m
m
w
as
■3.
i
%
r-^r
JAMES BARNES LTD.,
Linseed Oil and Meal Manufacturers, Alexandria, Sydney.
Sole Australian Agent : HAROLD MEQQITT, Daily Telegraph Buildings, Sydney.


■Wmmrn Is | in
c uy-y%omsmwmmy ■• ■■ >::-' .^k:*•.<> - - - ." -
' m ||g§i g|p|p ,'c *'-'-||§|§§g|§g '^i': ; ' » ‘ - .pp''' I Sglfti 'OPp, 1 '-;*:
'!■ ?
P"
. ?
m
■Mi
■
■MB
■IIP 11
■ ■ ——
ami
■■ ■ ■/ : ■
11
,jr'
ippiiP^
p '■ '■' V S P I ~ j '. ■'. ■ $
jf* , 'mam^ I, >
f' .
HP
' V •••:
fl
ss
41
■
*i
«
/
*' ■*-■ *!#
H
■
■Bfl
W 8
Wy»
rp
1
nn
■
:' '
■
9
.
r
Arr
H
■H
-
IppP
Sgitf
wrt>M », Hi%n
THE AUSTRALIAN SIX
BUILT IN AUSTRALIA
has completely revolutionised the motor trade in Australia.
We are selling faster than we can build, and our sales are
already larger than any other car —for the following reasons:
By eliminating wherever possible the Foreign Car Manu-
facturers’ profit —his huge overhead charges and tremendous
advertising expenses.
By utilising in every way possible Australian raw material,
Australian brains and Australian workmanship. By stand-
ardising and organising our production on the lines of the
most successful American Car Manufacturing concerns.
By purchasing in quantity on the open market the
world’s best units where they cannot be procured or built
in Australia.
“SIX BEAUTIES.”—
We will be pleased to send to genuine inquirers our
Catalogue with full particulars of the “Australian
Six,” together with a beautiful reproduction in
colors of the above picture.
TJi.Sordon^C 0^
133-7 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Also agents for the “Wolseiey,” “Stellite” & “Packard” Cars
THE AUSTRALIAN SIX
BUILT IN AUSTRALIA
The result is the “Australian Six” —equal in quality, per-
formance, design and finish to any car selling up to £BO0 —
nearly double its price. We have a seven-acre plant employ-
ing scores of Australians building the Australian Six. Out
of the total cost of the car only £lBO is spent abroad. With
other cars of like value more than double this amount
goes to other countries.
The Australian Six is the outcome of 15 years of practical
experience in Australian requirements, and is over-strength
and over-size wherever over-strength or comfort is needed.
In the recent Sydney to Bathurst trial the “Aussie Six”
EQUALLED the winner in Reliability. BEAT it in the hill-
climb and averaged only 1 mile per gallon less over the
whole trip. Petrol consumption being 23.4 miles per gallon.


I DECORATE YOU FOR.
HONEST EFFICIENT AND
tDISXINGoi ,9Hrp
SERVICE
THE MEDAL WINNER
GoodricH
Safety J yres
Tread A. JX VO
“Best in the Long Run.”
THE RUBBER IS THE TOUGHEST AND
MOST WEAR-RESISTING EVER PUT
INTO AN AUTOMOBILE TYRE, and the
FABRIC WEARS WITH THE TREAD.
Let Your WextTyrc be a Goodrich
We have a Prest-o-lite
Battery of correct size for
your car. It will give you better
service and satisfaction than
you have ever known before.
Let us make an X-ray
jZ? oyour Battery.
It may save an operation.
WE ARE ALWAYS READY TO CHEER-
FULLY ADVISE YOU UPON ALL
MATTERS RELATIVE TO TYRES, OR
AUTOMOBILE ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT.
A BATTERY YOU DON’T
HAVE TO WORRY ABOUT
The day is coming, and
coming sure, when you will
make a sudden and possibly
exasperating discovery—that
the battery in your car has
kicked its last kick. When
that day comes buy a new
battery that you don’t have to
worry about, one that has
fully demonstrated its ability
' o deliver the service you re-
quire with the least amount
of attention.
Prest-O-Lite Battery has ex-
celled in every competitive test. It
has more pep, more power and
more endurance. There is a cor-
rect size for every car.
No matter what make of battery you now own, we’ll
help you to get maximum service by giving it an occa-
sional test and adding distilled water, without cost to you.
We are splendidly equipped to recharge and repair all
makes at right prices. A service battery is at your dis-
posal while yours receives attention.
Drive around and let us give your battery an occasional
“once over” to see if it needs attention.
Official Preat-O-Lite Service Station.
13 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Battery
Service
DUVAL <a CO.
13 Castlereag'h Street, Sydney.
124-6 Russell Street, Melbourne. Horsham House, Adelaide Street, Brisbane.


Bank of New South Wales.
ESTABLISHED 1817.
Paid-up Capital . .
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
of Proprietors. .
mm
JA
*
yf
&
EA*K
£4,000,000
3,100,000
4,000,000
£11,100,000
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. SIR CHARLES K. MACKE LEAR, K.C.M.G.. M.L.C., President.
F. B. S. FALKINER, Esq., M.H.R.
The Hon. REGINALD J. BLACK. M.L.C.
THOMAS BUCKLAND, Esq.
CHARLES BINNIE. Esq.
ROBERT L. FAITH FULL. Eso.. M.I).
The Hon. JAMES T. WALKER.
Auditors: S. E. LAIDLEY, Esq. ; A. G. MILSON, Esq.
General Manager: Sir JOHN RUSSELL FRENCH, K.B.E.
Chief Inspector: C. G. ALFORD.
Inspectors: B. M. MOLINEAUX, L. WHITEHEAD, R. T. LIILDER, W. McRAE,
W. POTTS.
Chief Accountant: W. E. SOUTLIERDEN, Secretary: J. A. BRYANT.
Solicitors: Messrs. ALLEN, ALLEN and HEMSLEY.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
W. E. FRAZER, Manager. W. LI. SENDALL, Assistant Manager.
London Branch - - 29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
Directors: SIR FREDERICK GREEN, K.8.E., Chairman; H. L. M. TRITTON,
Esq.; W. S. M. BURNS, Esq.
LI. MELDRUM, Assistant Manager.
LONDON BANKERS:
The BANK OF ENGLAND. LONDON JOINT CITY & MIDLAND BANK. LTD.
BARCLAY’S BANK. LTD.
MELBOURNE: RODERICK MURCHISON, Esq., Advisory Director.
OSCAR LINES, Manager.
340 BRANCHES AND AGENCIES:
174 in New South Wales; 39 in Victoria; 49 in Queensland; 53 in New
Zealand; 6 in South Australia; 10 in West Australia; 3 in Tasmania;
3in Fiji; 2in Papua; 1 in London.
AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on. Foreign places direct. Foreign Bills
negotiated or collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED.
Capital Paid-up
Reserve Fund
Reserve Capital
ESTABLISHED 1834.
£2,382,018 15 0
£2,120,000 0 0
£2,500,000 0 0
DIRECTORS: £7,002,018 15 0
George J. Cohen, Esq., Chairman. The Honorable 11. E. Kater, M.L.C., Deputy-
Chairman. The Honorable Henry Moses, M.L.C. J. W. Macartiiur Onslow, Esq.
The Honorable Sir Thomas Hughes, M.L.C.
Sir Thomas Allwright Dibbs, Honorary Director. *
Auditors : J. J. Brenan, Esq., and F. W. Hixson, Esq.
General Manager: 11. 11. Massie.
Inspectors : J. N. Roxburgh, J. R. Dry hurst, F. E. Baylis.
J. Clayton, Branch Accountant.
m
fi:
i-fi
A
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
W. R. Sayers, Manager. M. S. Grant, Secretary. L. A. Parker, Assistant Manager.
F. J. L. Dunlop, Accountant. E. R. Dryiiurst, Assistant Accountant.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
LONDON BRANCH:, 18 BIRCHIN LANE, E.C.
Directors; The Hon. H. S. Littleton ; Neville 0. Cohen, Esq.; The Right Hon. Lord Plunket
G.C.M.G., K.C.V.0.. K.B.E. J
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
London Bankers: The Bank op England. The London County Westminster and Parr’s
Bank Limited. Barclay’s Bank Limited.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
BANK OF NEW ZEALAND
(Incorporated by Act of General Assembly , 29th July, 1861.')
BANKERS TO THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW ZEALAND.
SUBSCRIBED CAPITA!/.
Four per cent. Stock Guaranteed by N.Z. Government .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares issued to the N.Z. Government • • .. . . £750,000
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £1,500,000
£2,779,988
CAPITA!/ PAID UP.
Four per cent. Guaranteed Stock .. ... .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £750,000
Ordinary Shares (£500,000 uncalled) £1,000,000
£2,279,988
Reserve Fund . . .. .. .. .. .. .. £2,350,000
Undivided Profits .. .. .. .. .. .. £116,224
£2,406,224
£4,776,212
HEAD (.OFFICE . . WELLINGTON, NEW ZEALAND.
Directors ('four appointed by New Zealand Government, two elected by shareholders) :
H. Beauchamp, Esq. (Chairman). R. W. Kane, Esq. D. J. Nathan, Esq. Wm. Reece, Esq.
J. H. Upton, Esq. Wm. Watson, Esq.
General Manaqer: William Callender.
LONDON OFFICE: 1 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET. E.C.
London Board: Frederic Lubbock, Esq. (Chairman). The Right Hon. Lord Carnock, G.C.B.
Alex. Michie, Esq. Sir James Mills, K. , '..';..G.
Bankers: Bank of England. The London Joint City and Midland Bank, Ltd.
Chief Auditor; B. M. Litchfield, Esq. London Auditor: W. C. SHEATH, Esq.
(Both appointed by New Zealand Government.)
BRANCHES AND AGENCIES in NEW ZEALAND:
BRANCHES IN AUSTRALIA:
MELBOURNE (Victoria) : 317 Collins Street. SYDNEY (N.S.W.) : 339 George Street.
BRANCHES IN FIJI—SUVA and LEVUKA. BRANCH IN SAMOA—APIA.
The BANK OK NEW ZEALAND has agents in every oart of Great Britain and Ireland; also
throughout Australia and Tasmania. It has also Agents and Correspondents throughout Europe, India,
China, Japan afld other parts of the East; Honolulu, North and South America, Africa, etc.
DRAFTS are issued and Credits granted at any office upon any other Branch of the Bank, or
upon its British or Foreign Agents.
LETTERS OF CREDIT and CIRCULAR NOTES are issued for the use of travellers, negotiable
in all parts of the world.
BILLS upon any part of the Dominion, or wherever the Bank has Branches or Correspondents in
Australia or elsewhere, are negotiated, and moneys collected for constituents.
KKPOSTTS —Current rates of Interest given.
Every description of Banking business within the Dominion, or between New Zealand and Aus-
tralia, Great Britain, India, China, Japan, America, Africa, etc., transacted on favorable terms.
THE BANK of QUEENSLAND
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Acts of 1863 to 1913.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL
CAPITAL PAID-UP. .
£1,000,000
£450,000
Directors:
The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY, Kt., Chairman. I-lon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, K.C.M G
E. It. MACARTNEY, Esq., M.L.A. Iton. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
Auditors: G. F. SCOTT, Esq., and F. M. HART, Esq
Solicitors $ Messrs - CHAMBERS, McNAB & McNAB.
solicitors Megsrs TH ynNE & MACARTNEY.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane
Manager: E. H. MATTHEWS.
Assistant Inspectors: J. E. DIXON and WM. MOFFATT.
ATHERTON
AYR
BLACKBUTT
(With Agency at Yarraman)
BOONAH
(With Agency at Road vale)
BUNDABERG
CAIRNS
CHILDERS
ESK
FORTITUDE VALLEY, BRISBANE.
GATTON
GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
BRANCHES.
QUEENSLAND:
GOOMERI
GRANTHAM
GYMPIE
HARRISVILLE
(With Agency at Rosevale)
HELIDON
HOME HILL
IMBIL
INNISFAIL
IPSWICH
KALBAR
KINGAROY
KUMBIA
LAIDLEY
LOWOOD
MAREEBA
NANANGO
ROCKHAMPTON
ROSEWOOD
STANTHORPE
TEXAS
THURSDAY ISLAND
TOOWOOMBA
TOWNSVILLE
WARWICK
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY OFFICE, 253 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: J. P. CANNY. Accountant: C. C. LONG.
DEEPWATER GLEN INNES HORNSBY MANLY TENTERFIELD.
VICTORIA:
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 381 COLLINS STREET.
Manager ; H. W. LOVE.
LONDON OFFICE : 4 Queen Victoria Street, Mansion House, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE. Accountant: HECTOR FORBES.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY WESTMINSTER AND PARR’S BANK, LIMITED
COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA.
AGENTS OVERSEAS:
CANADA . . .. ~ .. .. Bank of Montreal.
I Bank of Montreal.
UNITED STATES J Fourth Street National Bank.
' * ' ’ j Bank of California.
A __ T „, (Wells Fargo Nevada National Bank of San Francisco.
Ar RICA .. .. .. .. .. The National Bank of South Africa, Limited.
INDIA, CHINA AND THE EAST .. /Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation.
■ ' ' ’ ’ I Chartered Bank of India, Australia and China.
Tiin Bank of Queensland Limited a’lows interest on Fixed Deposits, opens current
accounts on usual terms, discounts commercial paper, makes advances against approved securities,
including Bills supported by Shipping Documents, issues Drafts and Letters of Credit, invests moneys
on behalf of customers, collects Interest and Dividends, and transacts all usual Banking Business.


The Mutual Life 8 Citizens’
Assurance Company Limited
(“The M.L.C.”)
with which is incorporated the business of the
CITIZENS’ LIFE ASSURANCE COMPANY, LIMITED,
MUTUAL LIFE ASSOCIATION OF AUSTRALASIA, and
THE AUSTRALIAN WIDOWS’ FUND LIFE ASSURANCE
SOCIETY, LIMITED.
ASSETS
As at 31st DECEMBER, 1918.
Government Securities
Municipal Securities and Loans to Public Bodies
Loans on Mortgage
Shares and Debentures in other Companies
Railway Debentures —Canada
Reversionary I nterests
Loans on Life and Reversionary Interests
Loans on Policies
Freehold Property
Leasehold Property
Office Furniture and Fittings
Outstanding Premiums
Interest Outstanding
Interest accrued, but not yet due
Agents’ Balances
Sundry Debtors
£
Life Assurance on the Co-operative Plan.
By the Company’s Constitution 80 per cent, of the Ordinary Branch profits
divided are apportioned amongst holders of VV Ith Profit Policies in that Branch, anil
the remaining 20 per cent, amongst the Shareholders, who undertake to conduct the
business of the Branch at an expense rate not exceeding 15 per cent, of the income.
The Company issues the
Ordinary Life Assurance Policy,
Intermediate Life Assurance Policy,
Industrial Life Assurance Policy,
Personal Accident Policy,
Combined Life and Accident Policy,
Employers’ Indemnity Policy,
and gives its Policy-holders in all Branches of its business
A DEFINITE CONTRACT.
JOHN J. GARY AN, Managing Director.
Branches are open for the transaction of
General Banking Business
in the principal towns and cities of Australia and
Rabaul; also London (2).
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted
within the Commonwealth, United Kingdom, Canada, United States
and abroad.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
Savings Bank Department
At all Branches and Savings Bank
Agencies, at 2 782 Post Offices in Aus-
tralia, Papua, New Britain, Solomon
Islands, and the Pacific.
Minimum Deposit in the
Savings Bank Department,
1/-
Maximum Deposit, £3OO.
Rate of Interest, 3 per cent.
PUBLIC SAFE DEPOSIT,
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY.
December,
1919.
DENISON MILLER,
Governor.
I
t 1 , '
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY.
The State Savings Bank
of Victoria
GUARANTEED BY THE GOVERNMENT OF VICTORIA.
Reserve Fund : £500,000.
Deposits Now Amount to Thirty-five Million Pounds.
Branches are established at 132 of the Principal Cities,
Towns and Suburbs of Victoria, with 348 Agencies at
the smaller Towns.
Deposits received from 1|- to £lOOO.
Interest at the rate of 3| per cent, allowed on sums
from £l to £350. Depositors may also purchase
Deposit Stock, in sums from £lO to £lOOO, bearing
interest at 3| per cent, in addition to having an
ordinary account bearing interest up to £350.
A SAFE DEPOSIT DEPARTMENT
for the exclusive use of depositors is now established for the safe
custody of valuables. Locked boxes and sealed packets con-
taining deeds, wills, policies and other valuable documents may
be deposited at Head Office and Branches on production of Pass-
book and payment of a small annual fee.
Commonwealth War Loan Debentures will be taken, and
interest collected for depositors.
GEORGE E. EMERY, Inspector-General.
State Savings Bank, Head Office: Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
The London Bank of Australia Limited.
Authorised Capital . .
Subscribed Capital . .
Paid-up Capital •
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits
Reserve Liability of Proprietors . .
£2,880,0(17 10 0
1,270,747 10 O
000,785 0 O
444,202 18 0
000,002 10 0
London
Office: 71 Old Broad Street, E-.C.2
MAUI) Or I) I HECTORS:
n-—GEORGE SLADE, Esq.
SIDNEY MARK WARD, Esq.
ANDREW CUNNINGHAM, Esq.
ROBERT JAMES BLACK, Esq. I
Auditors —Messrs. PRICE, WATERHOUSE & C •
Bankers —THE BANK OF ENGLAND,
J()H\ GRAHAM O’NEILL, Esq.
EDWARD VINCENT REID, Esq-
HON. SiR ARTHUR LAW LEY, O.C.S.
Secretary— WlLLlAM HASTINGS BARBER.
and LLOYDS BANK LIMITED
AUSTRALIAN
Inspector and General Manager .
Branch Inspector
Assistant Branch Inspectors
ESTABLISHMENT.
... OLIVER MORRICE
JAMES RUSSELL
/W. A. BOYD.
\ W. J. WARREN.
WILLIAMS
BUTCIIART
Branches in New Sooth Wales:
SYDNEY
Boiirke Manager, O. S. Tibbits.
Bowraville Manager, H. C. Bourne.
Broken Hill (with Agencies at South Broken Hill
and Railway Town).. Manager, B. G. David.
Bulladelah Manager, G. E. B. Lindsay.
r- as j no Manager, H. J. Kearns.
Comboyne Manager, L. M. Shiels.
Pnraki . Manager, J. D. Stanley.
Culcairn V. 7. V.‘. . Manager, L. H M Newton.
Deniliquin Manager, W. J. McLay.
Goulburn Manager, H. L. Cronin.
Hav . . Manager, G. M. Richardson.
Kendall Manager, C. D. Prichard.
Krambach ......!.. Manager. R. R. Stewart.
Lockhart Manager, D. J. Aitken.
Macksville (with Agency at Nambucca Heads)
Manager, D. S. H. Moreton.
Moania Manager, H. D. Griffith.
Nabiac Avith Agencies at Forster and iuncurry)
Manager, J. S. Mclntosh.
Newcastle Manager, J. A. Cadell.
Itepton (with Agencies at Urunga and Baleign)
1 Manager, T. P. Brown.
South Woodburn (with Agency at Broadwater)
Manager, 11. O. Symes.
Taree (with Agency at Cundletown)
Manager, L. K. Clark.
Wauchope (Agency at Beechwood)
Manager, F. V. Catomore.
Branches in Victoria:
mpt RnrRVF 401 and 403 Collins Street—Local Director: Hon. W. L. Baillieu, M.L.C.
90 Bourke Street-Manager: J. F Cole. Western Branch, 530
Collins Street— -Manager : K. F. Hester. 225 Swanston Street—Manager. C. W. Wh.te.
\lvie Cwith Agency at Warrion)
v Manager. T. H. Osborne.
Arara t Manager, E. B. Fisher.
Ballarat West Manager, A. A. Macleod.
Ballarat East (with Agencies at Bungaree and
Wallaeel Manager, h. F. Reid.
Beaufort Manager, J. G. Macdonald.
Bee . lc Manager, E. J. Hemmerde.
Bendigo' ..... ..... Manager, C. G Tatchell.
Carlton Manager, W. J. King.
Clifton Hill (with Agency at Fairfield)
Manager. W. F. Kingslev.
clunes Manager, A. J. Coutts.
Cressv (with Agency at Berry Bank)
Manager. G. K. \e«te.
Dunolly Manager, C. H. Phelan.
Echuca Manager, C. A. Ellis.
Fitzroy Manager, C. H. Morgan.
Garfieid (with Agencies at lona, Tynong and
Nar-Nar-Goon) .. Manager, H. A. Gardner.
Geelong Manager, W. R. K. Pooley.
Gordon
(with Agency at Egerton)
Manager,
H. T. Stewart.
Horsham (with Agency at Toolondo)
Manager, C. G. Davies.
Kerang (with Agency at Macorna)
Manager, W. E. Toms.
Koo-wee-rup (with Agencies at \annathan and Cora
Lynn and Dalmore). . Manager, C. Adeney.
Marvborough , . Manager, F. It. Lkngsford.
Natimuk ,°.... Sub-manager, R. 0. McDonald.
Northeote Manager, O. W. Rawson.
St. Arnaud Manager, H. Kaye.
Stawell (with Agency at Glenorchyl
Manager, W. Y. Witherden.
Swan Hill Manager, J. S. Bath.
Talbot Manager, W. K. Paterson.
Ultima (with Agencies at Waitchie, ChinkapooK
and C’hillingollah'l Manager. F. G. Palmer.
Wangaratta Manager, E. G. A. Eames.
Warragul Manager, S. E. Purvis.
Warrnambool Manager, T. M. Bowe.
Yea Manager, C. T. P. Ogilvie.
Branches in Queensland:
Queen Street—Manager, Henry
B K Bo* Street-Manager, A Priest
(With Agencies at Redland Bay, Cleveland,
Wellington Point, Samford and ale.)
CHARTERS TOWERS —Manager, J. R. Woodburn.
NAMBOUR —Manager, D. Craig
(with Agency at Woombye).
TOOWOOMBA— Manager, F. Webb.
Branches in South Australia:
ADELAIDE Local Director: B. A. Moulden, J.P. Manager:


0
SI
m
'+y.
r'V ,
SPSS
®
--wSN
ifp
£§s
S'
■W
w {
w
EJ^SKSSKS
■mssm,.
Mi
hi
■
w
A
N=
M
'ji/i
w.
r
l§
WA
r^M 3
iH
r/.
//
r
m
i
p
m
r ms*
8/M
f
iIM
%
m*
%
M
W
■s
K
=*
m
m
ftx
W\
?22>S^
i
K*
<sh.
P^kv'C
m
'S
m
a
S
'T'HERE S a right way—and a wrong one—
to do everything: and when it conies to
your hair it’s the careful shampoo that
can make it truly, gloriously beautiful. It is
the shampoo that fetches forth all the real life,
the shimmering radiance, natural wave and
pristine color, and makes it soft and beautiful.
Your hair merely requires frequent and re-
gular cleansing to keep it beautiful, but
it you have been in the habit of using ordi-
nary soaps you cannot expect such results.
The harsh action of alkali in ordinary soaps
quickly dries the hair, makes the hair' brittle,
and often absolutely spoils it. This is the
reason why the fastidious woman now uses
Colinated Cocoanut Oil.
This pure and quite greaseless preparation
cannot possibly injure, and never dries the
scalp or makes the hair brittle, even if used
as often as twice a week.
Merely wet your hair with water and rub
it on. A couple of teaspoonfuls make a per-
fect flood of rich, thick, creamy lather, and
cleanse both hair and scalp thoroughly. The
lather rinses out easily, and takes with it
every trace of dust, dirt, dandruff or exces-
sive oihness. The hair dries quickly and
evenly, and comes out fine and silky, bright,
glossy and fluffy, appearing to be much
heavier than it really is. And, best of all,
Colinated Cocoanut Oil leaves the hair as
easy to dress again as though you hadn’t
washed it at all. Get Colinated Cocoanut
Oil at any chemist’s, but be sure it’s “Colin-
ated,” which is not expensive—a few ounces !
lasting a long time.


I
1
Wimi
m
w F’l'i 'l%'iTw
ara&fij
la®
IS
■
H
jijMW
i
<7^
Road 'round tKc
World
IT criss-crosses every continent.
And every section of it differs.
Yet there is a type of ‘United
States’ tyre that exactly fits every
possible road surface.
‘United States’ tyres have five dis-
tinct and different treads, which
appeal to Australasian motorists.
They are called: ‘Royal Cord,’
‘Nobby,’ ‘Chain,’ ‘Usco,’ and ‘Plain’.
They are made by the world’s
largest rubber manufacturer.
United States Rubber Company
(Australasia) Limitett,
53 York Street, Sydney.
130-2 William Street, IVtelbourne.
United States’Tires
Are Good Ti res
Obtainable from all leading garages and
IV. A. SORRELL, 157 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND ; Howard Motor & Cycle Co. Ltd., Brisbane,
SOUTH AUSTRALIA : Bagot, Shakes & Lewis Ltd., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA ; Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.) Ltd., Perth,
LAUNCESTON : Irvine & McEachern .
HOBART: Buchanan, Davidson & Co. Ltd.
NEW ZEALAND: Magnus, Sanderson & Co. Ltd., Wellington
.. „ Dexter &. Crosier Ltd., Christchurch.


Born 1820-
still going strong
/
<r ,l vrk\
m
s' ■ s'
'>//
m
4C
5
La:
I t
«?
£p
o
VI
Km
'‘i \j
«*?r^XK
5p
\WV
rAv-v
•' V,
a
0
m
\
>*
>*s
V <
>
■<«-;
H
n
VV'S
xs
r
Y
v*t
«
ro'
7=s=r
7^-i
%
e
?
V" —©
a
Sj
£
is?
i
i
Y
K
jw
In
LA
Johnnie Walker takes his hat off for the first time.
“ Like the British Empire—' ‘ still going strong/”
JOHN WALKER & SONS, Ltd., Scotch Whisky Distillers, KILMARNOCK, Scotland.
