

S —The Spirit of Confidence.
R. O. WATKINS & CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney *
—FOK— . .
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE
MONEY
ON EASY-
TERMS
...
H
ON ALL CLASSES OF SECURITY
—I WITHOUT POSSESSION.
NSWMONT de PIETE
t> t) I C9T LIMITED. " I
74 Casllereagh. St.74.Sydney
CAPITAL & 200.000 ‘Fhorve City
firencAes at- 29 King l7swANsTOfisT.rifiß.Vi(
v 40 Adelaide St.Brisbane.O- 186 Castlereagh st,fS9 George St. West, Sydney.
JTustace , C/enefgrJ JJa nacres*.
1
y
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not be laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete D. and I. Co. Ltd.”
if
CHROMOL
99
(Trade Mark)
The Super Driving Belt.
The largest mining and smelt-
ing plants use “Chromol,” because
of its proven superiority over all
other Belting.
Sole Makers:
J. C.LudowicitfSon Ltd.
Pioneer Leather Belting Works,
117 York Street, Sydney
Pioneers and Leaders since 1858.
THE BEST !
n
mat
m
0.0
a
9,
V/D
m.
<
sdf
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organa.
HANSEN’S
Junket
sdf
#:«r INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these .specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
Most
artistic
panelling
w
I
n
H
Amiwud is not only the most effec-
tive wallboard obtainable-—bnt I* is
very easy to affix to wood framing- or
ever existing walls. It is moth and
vermin proof, does not chip or crnmble
and withstands strains and vibration
that would crack plaster.
Full supplies are now available.
Obtain samples and illustrated booklet
post free.
The Paraffine Companies Ine. (F. M.
Prince, Australasian Manager), Challis
House, Sydney.
A new and revised edition of the
“Referee" is now available,
and will be sent post free on
application to
JOHN LYSAGHT (Australia) LIMITED
8 Spring Street, SYDNEY .
sdf
the recognised standard
of quality
the Commonwealth
Horndale Brandy
(A mature, high-
grade spirit).
.
or durable
r walls and ceili
sdf
GYPSBOARD
In Monolithic Solidity alone, “Gypsboard” has a Durability Feature not possessed by any other material. There are
other points which make “Gypsboard” Monolithic Plaster Sheets miles ahead of lath and plaster and other materials
for , walls and ceilings in town and country homes, flats, schools, institutes, churches, etc. Costs the same as less
popular materials. 2/6 per sq. yard. Sample Post free from
sdf
NOYEtS BROS, (Sydney) Ltd., 115 Clarence vStreet, Sydney.
18. 270
sdf
TOOTH PASTE
Used Every Day
Prevents Decav.
sdf
The Bulletin
Vol. 40.—N0. 2063.
Thursday, August 28, 1919.
PRICE 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Novels You Will Like
BY
THE TWO LINCOLNS.
HUMOR.
SHAVINGS
By JOSEPH C. LINCOLN.
Author of “Cap'n Eri,” “Mary Gusta.”
The village folk think “Shavings’’ is
“queer”—his shrewd philosophy is beyond
most of them-*>-but you. dear reader; will,
we hope, find him the most delightful of
Mr. Lincoln's Cape Cod creations.
A good plot, two pretty romances, and
a bushel of hearty laughs—a splendid
novel equal to his best.
MYSTERY.
the Three Strings
By NATALIE S. LINCOLN.
Author of *‘C.G.t).” “Trevor Case.”
When Evelyn Preston returns to open
her mother’s house in Washington, she
finds a strange man dead in the library.
If you van guess who killed the
stranger before Miss Lincoln is ready to
have you know, you are cleverer than
most readers.
KOTII ILLUSTRATED.
Each 5/- 5 Posted 5/4*
ASK YOUR BOOKSELLER FOR THEM.
Oil FROM
flessrs. Melville & Mullen Pty. Ltd., Collins Street, Melbourne.
Delicate Fragrant—lmpalpable.
WILLIAMS’ IRIDESCA
FACE POWDER
leaves on tlie face the fresh wholesome feeling and look of youth.
The exceptionally fine texture of IRIDESCA POWDER renders it
imperceivable, while the purity of its ingredients and conscientious
preparation will help to preserve the health of the most sensitive skin.
The woman who takes a pride in a careful and dainty toilet will find
that a light dusting of IRIDESCA used after cold cream will leave a
delicate, natural bloom no other powder can impart.
Made in four colors—'Natural, Brunette, White, Blush Pink—carefully
shaded to give each complexion its perfect natural tint.
Made by “WILLIAMS/'’ U.S.A.,
a name to conjure with.
WILLIAMS’ TALCUM POWDERS and WILLIAMS’ SHAVING -
SOAr are known to all Australians of taste and judgment.
IRIDESCA POWDER is WILLIAMS’ latest success.
[ONY HORDERN & SONS LTD.
SERVICE STORES.
F. LASSETTEIt & CO. LTD
GRACE BROS.
.
Or send 3/C in
will receive a box of
and most good chemists.
to “WILLIAMS,” Box 98 G.P.0., Sydney,
IE SC Aby return post. Name color you
The Super Fx 8 R Watch.
The original “Fx and R” Watches are known throughout Aus-
tralasia for their marvellous accuracy and endurance.
But, as usual, we progress, and so now we are showing the
SUPER “Fx and R” WATCH.
Its present price is 63/-, in Steel Case, but what a watch it is!
Every latest improvement known to horological science is in it.
It is jewelled in every part where wear occurs. It will go with
profound accuracy; indeed, it is so accurate that a ship could be
steered to England by it.
For strength and standing up against hard wear, we unhesitatingly
say that no watch the world over' equals the Super “Fx and R”
Watch.
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
Plain Figures—Cash Only. 23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
N
FAIRFAX I> ROBERTS LTO
*
w
Gent.’s full-size Open-face
Oxidised Steel Super “Fx and
E” Watch, 63/-
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.’
HUDSON’S E£in)CQtf)ol JUJUBES
1/6 a Tin. For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats and the Prevention of Consumption.
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
0. The Bronchial
Tubes of a Dis-
sected Lung.
D. The Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
C 3,
HARMFUL THROAT TABLETS.
Throat Tablets and Lozenges containing Formalin
(Formaldehyde). Wiley, in the United States, in-
vestigated the effects of small doses of Formalin
(Formaldehyde) given with milk on 12 men during
15 days. Burning in the throat, itching rash, and
loss in body weight were observed.
HUDSON'S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
contain no Formalin, Cocaine or Other harmful or
poisonous poisonous drug.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL CO., LTD.,
SYDNEY. [ll
The Red Page
The Humanising of Industry
Sixteen years ago Joseph Fisher gave the
Adelaide University £lOOO to promote the
study of commerce'; and the income is spent
on an annual lecture and in printing it. For
this year the Council made a happy choice
of a lecturer: it invited Gerald Mussen, the
industrial adviser Of the Associated Smelters
and other'big cos., to speak on his welfare
work. The Hiny<nehfhiy of Commerce add
Industry (Hassell and Son) is the result.
Mussen, formerly on the staff of Sydney
Telegraph, captured the attention of th
Baillieus, in 'Melbourne, a dozen years ago
and by and bye he persuaded them to se<
what he could do to make the Broken llil
miners and other workers more contents
with their jobs. His principal Held so fa
has been the smelters at l’ort Pirie, chiefly
because during the war it was of the greates
national importance that there should be p<
break in the output of lead. Something
certainly, has produced most excellent re
suits:—
The Smelter employees at Port Pirie can claim tli
distinction of never having lost one hour in produe
lion during the \va". ■ The major portion of the sup
ply of lead for Great Britain and her Allies wen
from Port Pirie, and night and day throughout th
war lead was 'poured from the smelters. No strik
stopped the continuous stream. The stall' and 'em
ployee.s worked seven days a week until victory wa
secured;
Ferhaps the task was easier than that whicl
employers often have to face. The <•<>. was
getting paid so well that it could afford t<
grant almost any demand; which, was pre
cisely how Lloyd George maintained indus-
trial peace in England—with disastrous
consequenees now when there are not un
limited loan-moneys to draw on and costs
matter. Still, it would be an insult to tlie
intelligence of the poorest manual worker
not to believe that he will respond to efforts
seriously made to improve his Conditions
Man in nine eases Out of 10 will respond t<
his environment. It is one of our troubles
and it ought to be equally one ot
our bright hopes, that he does so respond
Wo are much too apt to condemn tin
crude methods of workmen in industrial
troubles. They arc prone to rely on brute
force. Frankly, in many cases is it reason-
able to expect anything else? If they were
not of coarse fibre, could they stand the
conditions of their ' employment? And
especially if the conditions under which they
live are in keeping with the conditions under
which they work?
Further, the time comes when, so far as
many of our biggest industries are con-
cerned, it is impossible to pay more in
actual money and keep the work going.
Mussen illustrates this point
Of every 100 tons of lead pioduced at Port Pirie
95 tons have to be sold across the sea in competition
with producers of lead in other countries. Austra-
lian lead h;T*-jjo special merit above any other pig
lead. The buyer does not bother about the country
of origin ; he buys at the lowest price. Consequently
the smelters in Australia have no say in deciding the
selling price. It is therefore impossible to pass on
an increase in tlie cost of production caused by in-
creased. wages.
Increased wages arc only of value in so far
as they can procure increased happiness.
The question for the welfare-worker is: “If
it is impossible to pay increased wages, can
we procure the increased happiness in other
ways?” His job is to find ways; and not
necessarily ways to increase happiness (and
therefore eontentmerit) at the expense of
wage-increases either.
First, perhaps, there comes_ the elimination
of waste; and that is in large measure out-
side the scope of the welfare-worker, except
so far as he can advise. And the advice is
not for the.employer only: the worker needs
it. One section of “wage-slaves” repeats the
shibboleth that “the worker is entitled to the
full product of his labor.” He is. To give
him less is to defraud him. But what is
the full product of his labor? Mussen goes
to the smelters:—•
At Port Pirie there is a highly trained staff of
metallurgists, superintendents and experts. These
men have had a training from their early years in
this particular business ; if they had to commence
to learn at their time of life they would find it
impossible to acquire (lie required knowledge. If
a committee of workmen owned the smelters and
ran them, and (say) 20 experts were withdrawn, the
production of lead would probably total not more
than 10,000 tons a year. If the 20 experts then
returned and took charge, with exactly the same
plant and exactly the same labor force, their pro-
duction would be what it is at present—about
150,000 tons a year... .Hence certain men must have
control over certain others. Alter that condition and
you annihilate the greater portion of the production.
The Soviet Government in Russia has found this
difficulty insuperable. .. .until there came the com-
promise under which interest was paid to the owners
of the factories and high salaries to the management
and experts.
And there is waste in the exchange of
wages for the necessaries and comforts of
life. The welfare-worker can do more than
advise here. In Port Pirie, finding that 35
to 50 per cent, was added to the wholesale
cost to cover the retailer’s costs, a store
was established to act simply as the agent of
the employees. The goods, purchased on the
most favorable terms, arc retailed at an
average of only 15 per cent, on wholesale
cost. Concurrently, largely through the co-
operative efforts of the workpeople, parks
and children’s playgrounds have been pro-
vided ; a seaside resort has been established
by the co. for the benefit of its employees,
who are granted periodical holidays there as
a bonus for regular work ; there is a provi-
dent fund whose trustees are charged with
the duty of lending to any member in
distress (“the condition was made that no
interest should he charged, as it was felt that
any person in distress should be helped and
not burdened with interest”) ; an accident
and sickness fund is in operation; and,
among other things, housing is having atten-
tion, and a start has been made in that
most important matter. Practically all
these activities are controlled by committees
of workmen, with the addition of represen-
tatives of the co. specially chosen for their
special knowledge and known sympathies.
Apparently there is not yet in operation
anything in the shape of Whitley workshop
committees, though the meeting of workmen
and representatives of the management on
other committees doubtless produces some of
the results which the Whitley plan aims at.
Unionism is recognised by the company.
But, unfortunately, the spokesmen for the
union are generally men who cannot speak
from personal knowledge of any particular
grievance. Where there are workshop com-
mittees. which meet regularly, grievances can
be mentioned before they have time to grow ;
and the one object in such cases is to get
them quietly remedied. When the union
boss takes them in hand his purpose is not
always so simple. If there is one thing still
wanting in' the organisation which Air.
Alussen does Australia the good service of
describing it seems to be the employment of
some such committees as the Whitley report
advocated.
Cold Tea and Blank Verse
A oaturiic, by E. J. Rupert Atkinson
(Edward A. Vidler, Meibou rne), is a short
play prefaced by a long statement describing
a new method of dramatic production which
the author has protected throughout the
British Dominions and the United States.
The method is mainly a combination of pic-
ture-show effects and the regular stage; and
“A Nocturne” is set forth as the kind of
drama which lends itself to such treatment.
The play deals with the alleged destruc-
tive power of alcohol; and though there is
tremendous force in it. the story is not con-
vincing. Keith is a fine fellow who com-
pletely loses his memory of things done
while drunk. Me murders Mark, his bosom
friend, and is shocked to read the evening
paper’s account of the dreadful deed. lie
sets out to find the murderer, becomes ex-
hausted with his feverish search, and takes
to brandy again. When sufficiently drunk
In; sees himself in the mirror and recognises
the slayer of his friend. All the time the
two principal characters, whether drunk or
strenuously sober, are followed about by
crowds of men who act as a kind of chorus.
The dialogue, which is in blank verse, is a
trifle extravagant, though the metre is well
handled. Through entire scenes the charac-
ters recite and do nothing else.
A very choice morsel "for the liquor re-
former, but, like so much of the anti-liquor
propaganda, obviously untrue.
Verse and Poetry and Criticism
In the discussion (B. 7/8/’l9) by Will
Lawson on the suitability of “enveloping”
as a rhyme for “galloping” I feel no special
interest, though agreeing with “D.M.W.”
that “enveloping” has no poetic quality, and
is both awkward and unmusical. Some ob-
jection there is, however, to this dogmatic
assertion which Will Lawson makes with
very great assurance : &
One of the conditions under which literature is
entitled to live is that it shall be national, reputable
and recent.
Three conditions are here called for instead
of one. Let us examine the second and
third. What lias the writer in mind when
he insists that literature (which in this case
he is restricting to poetry) shall be “re-
putable,” an adjective having an ethical sig-
nificance, applied to personal conduct and
character? Allowing the widest use of the
word, it seems to me quite wrongly applied
as a qualification of literature, which, in-
trinsically, is capable of nothing- disreput-
able. The third condition, that in order to
be ‘entitled to live” literature shall be “re-
cent,” carries with it a strange contradic-
tion, for if literature lives long enough it
ceases to be “recent,” and so loses one of
the conditions under which, according to Mr.
Lawson, it is entitled to exist. There are
plain indications that the word “recent,” as
used by Mr, Lawson, must have some not
easily discernible meaning, because the
literature which has lived, and so justified
its title to live, is certainly not “recent.”
To return to the first condition —that
literature must be “national” in order to be
entitled to live —Mr. Lawson has furnished
no definition of the word “national.” If,
however, he means that the physical setting
of Australian poetry must be Australian
always and insistently, he is advocating a
dangerous limitation of the appeal which
Australian poetry makes to the world. The
physical , features of Australian life, natural
or contrived, must not be stressed too much.
It is not these tilings which appeal, but the
poetry which lives in them. Paterson’s
“Clancy” is, for instance, a universal type.
The drover is a figure “half as old as time,”
silhouetted against the skyline of Central
Asia ever since that .venerable dav when
men first drove their flocks and herds. Is
there any music older than that of “the river
on its bars,” any sight more ancient than
‘ the glory of the everlasting stars”? So far
as tlier essential poetry of Paterson’s fine
poem is concerned. Clancy might have been
droving in Wyoming or Colorado, in Mata-
bel el and or on the Pampas. In the wistful
longing of the city man for “the sunlit
plains extended” there is nothing especially
Australian. This longing, so deftly voiced
by Paterson, is an old. old heartache of the
man behind the desk. But all these old and
universal things ljave been localised by
Paterson, and Clancy rides the dustv roads
to Queensland, the typical Australian'drover.
Henry Lawson has been as successful here
and there, and some others, but none of
these writers are poets because of the Aus-
tralian setting in which they work, but be-
cause, _ simply, they are poets. Let tlie young
iu Australia use such few things as
diner m Australia from the other countries
of the earth, if he pleases, but also let him
remember that the use of such special refer-
ences does not make him a poet; that there
is practically no such thing as “national”
poetry: that tire appeal of poetry is as
universal as the human heart to which it is
made.
With reference to the departure from sym-
metrical verso forms known as froo verse
(fortunately not favored by Australian
writers), that is an indication that the in-
spiration behind English poetry is a dving
fire. Free verse is the revolt of mediocrity
against its. fate, as a man desirous of attract-
inF. , tll 'l l attention otherwise denied him
might, like Chesterton’s character, stand on
Ins head on Notting Hill and wave his feet
in the air. It is an old trick, this revolt
against established standards of art, and
(Continued on page 24.)


r aae
VALUE IN DEPENDABLE INCUBATORS
yttmiJßAXOll ~
rfPHES^ItftUBA
THE SUPERIOR.
Superior Incubators.
Opinions differ as to the respective merits of Hot Water
and Hot Air Incubators. We leave this question for you to
decide. We can supply the “Superior.” manufactured by Ihe
Cyphers Co.; it is well built, well insulated and up to the
usual Cypher standard. The boiler and tubular tank are made
of heavy copper. This machine will hatch duck or hen eggs.
It is fitted with a nursery space under the drawer, and remov-
able diaphragm for ease in cleaning.
65 eggs, approximate capacity, fitted with low legs (as illus-
trated) . £7/7/0
130 eggs, approximate capacity, fitted with long legs—
£lo/12/6
Complete with Tester and Directions.
Old Homestead Incubators.
The “Old Homestead” Incubator is hot-water heated,
and manufactured to meet the demand of those who believe
that hot water heat for Incubators is better than hot air.
It is a handsome, well-built machine, and
will give general satisfaction if operated
according to the directions supplied. Tie
heating device is made of copper pipes, with
a diffusing cloth of wire which carries the
heat from directly under the pipes to the
space between them. This evens up the
temperature so that on the egg level the
temperature is practically uniform.
The “Old Homestead” Incubator, made
in one size only—
Approximate capacity, 70 eggs . . £B/5/-
Complete with Egg Tester and full
directions.
Cyphers Incubators.
Tens of thousands of Cyphers Incu-
bators have been sold since they were
placed on the market some years ago. and
their fame has gone round the world.
Cyphers Incubators (as illustrated)
No I—l4o eggs, approximate capacity—
£l3/17/6
No. 2—240 eggs, approximate capacity—
£l9/10/-
Special Ostrich Machine £27/17/6
THE BUFFALO.
MARE sure of hatching early chickens
this year. The time is now right
for getting busy ; you can choose with
confidence from Anthony Horderns’ big
stock of dependable incubators, ranging
from the 15-egg Reliable to the
16,000-egg Mammoth.
The Reliable Hatcher.
A Circular Machine, made specially
for those who want to hatch a small
quantity of Chicks. It is made en-
tirely of Metal and is safe and reliable.
Success is assured if the user follows
out the directions given with each
Machine; we have had these tested
with satisfactory results. A Ther-
mometer is sent with each one—
Made in throe sizes—
-I r' Eggs 15/-
2"> „ 22/6
r,<) 45/-
Brcoder, for 15 or 25 Chick Size, 16/6
THE CYPHERS.
Buffalo Incubators.
«& "“oos°if;s on z**sn
can never rust. It is lined -with fibre board, which elimi-
nates any loss of heat by radiation. The walls are double,
the space between the inner and outer cases being well
packed; this makes an incubator as substantial and well
insulated as it is possible to manufacture. The front is
made of hardwood, finished in the natural grain. In addition
to a glass door, it has an outer hardwood panelled door to
darken the hatching chamber and to preserve the heat.
No. 0— 00-egg Capacity £8
£°- capacity £lO/15/-
N°- o “T;f egs ca P a city £l5/15/-
No. 3—.j60-«gg capacity £l9/18/6
American Standard Incubators
The American Standard Incubator is made by the
Robert Essex Incubator Co., and is fitted with a
fire- and smoke-proof heater, both very essential points.
Ihe lamp font is made with the ioiil on top —result,
no leaking. The two bottom diaphragms are covered with
canvas and are removable for cleaning.
The American Standard system combines perfect ventila-
tion and perfect heating. It gives the eggs that natural
warmth that makes the perfect chicken.
American Standard Incubator—
Approximate capacity TO 120 200 eggs.
Weight packed 100 130 2051 b.
Cubic feet 3 12 20
Floor space 30 x2l 34 x 2644 x 34 in.
£lO/12/6 £l3/10/- £l9/5/-
Full directions, Tester and Thermometer with each
Incubator.
Send for a Copy of our atalogus of Poultry
Goods- — posted frs2.
THE TRIUMPH.
m
my,
a*'
Triumph Incubators.
To meet the wants of a large number of our clients who
want a larger number of Chickens than can be hatched in a
“Reliable, 1 ” we have manufactured the “Triumph.” This is
a Hot-air Machine embodying all the latest improvements; it
is fitted with a Capsule Regulator and is worked on the
damper principle; it is thoroughly reliable and will give good
results if the directions are fully carried out.
40 Eggs (as illustrated) 50/-
56 Eggs, Improved, with Nursery space under drawer.. 75/-
Approximate weight packed, 561 b. and 841 b.
Packing for Country, 1/6 extra.
Columbia Incubators.
The Columbia is a first-class Incubator,
manufactured by the Cyphers Co. to meet
the demand for a popular-priced hatcher
that will give satisfaction under all ordinary
conditions.
Columbia Incubators have double walls,
including ends, back and top, are fitted with
Cyphers Co.’s Thermostat, are self-regulating
and self-ventilating, and when operated under
normal conditions need no added moisture.
Made in two sizes, both having long legs.
.140 Eggs, approximate capacity £9/12/6
230 Eggr, approximate capacity £ll/10/-
We stock everything
required by the poultry-
keeper, whether he be in a
large or a small way. Both
the quality and the price
are right, bear in mind.
a
3
» ~ .STATJnARD -
HTFh\~ IN CUBATO R _=- /Tfr.
1
THE AMERICAN STANDARD
ANTHONY HORDERNS
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.


m
0
11 ■
* 1 !*§ |l|Sl|ll
■
■
S#
-■•■ •• :•:
.
■
; :
n
■
Iffsll^wlil
m
BH
m
a
;
HR
t •;:.
h
•
r*.
•***
,' '-V....
-
■
■
■ i ...
m
m
:
m
■’■ '•
m
1
§
■
=>:■'-
ifj
Make Australia self-reliant and self-supporting
AUSTRALIAN-MADE GOODS


Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
ProvidentSpciety
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Although over £750,000 was paid dur-
ing 1918 in War Claims alone, the
Cash Bonus Distributed for 1918
exceeded..
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about
Accumulated Funds exceed
Annual Income over
£1,000,000
£1,700.000
£39,000,000
£5,500,000.
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, General Manager.
CHARM OF MANNER
l may be enhanced by beauty of the face. A
- touch of SWAN DOWN gives just that
S delicacy and purity to the complexion which,
t being scarcely perceptible, is admired the more.
TETLOW’S
m 5
FACE POWDER
? Imparts a delicate bloom to {
; tie complexion. So 'Pure that ;
f it-wifinot barm the most l
: delicate Skin. ,
ENGLISH
PRICE
Id.per
box
In Five Tints:
White. Cream, Pink.
Flesh and Brunette.
OPStores. Chemists
sdf
First C/ass Drapery Houses
s- Perfhmers everywhere.
Wholesale DisfribuHrifl Agente-
f Messrs. ELLIOTT BliOS.. LTD., '■
\ Sydney. "
; Messrs. WASHINGTON H. SOUL, 3
r PATTINSON & CO., Sydney. 3
; Messrs. ANTHONY HORDERN AND \
: SONS LTD., Sydney.
■ the AUSTRALIAN ' DRUG CO.,
Sydney. «!
LONDON WHOLESALE AGENTS f j
■ Henry C. Quelch & Co. 4& 5. Ludente Sq.. London. E.C.I
m.
N
" My name is Simplicity "
“ I am carried everywhere
“even up to the clouds by the airmen. For I
am Onoto—the pen that makes writing easy
everywhere.”
The Onoto fills itself instantly from any ink
supply and cleans itself in filling. Get one to-
day and save time, trouble and mess.
Onoto P
en
the self filling pen
Price 17/-, also Onoto Valveless for those
who do not want a Self-Filling Safety Pen
12/6 and upwards of all Stationers, Jewel-
lers and Stores. Manufacturs : Thos. De La
Rue & Co., Ltd., Bunhill Row, London, E.C.
Norman Baker & Longhurst, Sydney and
Melbourne.
Ask for Onoto Ink—Best for all Pens.
I
Mi
Wm
I!
m
m±M
M
I om
■orMtHmiWm
TOR
SREY
HAIR.
THE.
*& s:
a
3^=s
- -*r=
/r
.
QEWfirgyHti
ir--
aa
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
With which is amalgamated the Colonial Hank oi Australasia Limited
HEAD OFFICE: Collins Street. Melbourne. ESTABLISHED 1858.
Authorised Capital . . . .£5,000^000
Capital paid up
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability of
Proprietors
£1,945,300
1,090,000
£3.035,300
196,608
Directors ; —SIR JOHN GRIC'K, Chairman.
EDWARD TRENCHARD, Esq., Vice-Chairman.
■I. NEWMAN BARKER, Esq.
Mon. F. G. CLARKE, M.L.C.
BOWES KELLY, Esq. 11. M. STRACIIAN, Esq.
Chief-Manager: E. H. WREFORD.
£3,831,908 Deputy Chief Manager: JAMES WILSON.
Sydney Office, 60 Pitt St. Manager: R. S. GREGSON. Accountant: E. OSBORNE.
George St. City Office, 350 George St. Manager: ,T. g. HADLEY.
Branches in Victoria. South Australia. Western Australia, New South Wales.
LONDON OFFICE: 5 Bishopsgate, fc.C.
LOADING CHAFF BY GRAVITATION. (No power required.)
MANUFACTURERS OF LABOR-SAVING MACHINERY.
GRINDING, DRESSING, MIXING AND PACKING MACHINERY.
MACHINERY SPECIALISTS. FACTORY EXPERTS.
Schumacher Mill Furnishing WorKs Pty. Ltd.
PORT MELBOURNE, VICTORIA. [3
9 ®
EASY SHAVING
no longer a
Barber’s Secret
Man with tough, wiry beards; men with tender
faces; men who worry the host barber while sharing
them; men who could never before hone a razor into
decent shape, are writing us every day about the
smooth, easy shares they are getting with the
Perforated, Hone.
The Perforated Hone is the only one made that can he used
by the ordinary man. Use your finest blade or your poorest, give
a few strokes or hone all day, the result will be the same—a
perfect shave. The perforations prevent win u-edue, and make
it impossible for you to over-set your razor. They automatically
produce a perfect, keen shaving edge. The Perforated Hone is
made from an exceptionally fine natural stone found in British
Columbia. It lasts a lifetime.
KEEPS NEW RAZORS KEEN AND TRUE.
Try one—if it doesn’t make your razor shave to
your satisfaction return it to us within thirty days
and get your money hack. Sold by all leading Hard-
.l. ware Merchants, at 4/6, or post free 5/-, from
The Perforated Hone Co., Dept. 18, 125 Sussex Street, Sydney. J
Hotel de Luxe.
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
The Healthiest and most Beautiful Spot on
the Harbor. As warm in Winter as the South
of France.
Recommended by the Minister for Health and
the Medical Faculty. Finest Cuisine. Hot
. and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Beautiful Beaches,
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths,
Fishing.
Tariff, from 12/6 per day, or
£3/10/- per week.
Tels.: Y3OOl, 3002.
Apply Manager.
SOLDIERS’ DIARIES.
THE Mitchell Library is desirous of pur-
chasing for the State Archives original
diaries of Australian Soldiers taking part
in the Great War. Good prices will be
paid for good material. Address Mitchell
Library, Macquarie Street, Sydney.
For the Trustees.
W. H. IFOULD,
Principal Librarian and Secretary.
SAFEGUARD YOUR health
OtJ.Coflfe Browne’s
CWorodywe
The Original and Only Genuine.
CAPILLARINE
rm
4
for
Quick
Results.
A splendid growth of Hair can be produced
on the upper lip by the aid of CAPTL-
LARINE. Make up your mind to grow the
Moustache, and start using CAPILLARINE
right away. A preparation of unfailing
merit.
PRICE 10/6 JAR —POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established ocer SO years.
Tho Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centi inrn.
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since 1596. CURES Write for n,„,k
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT FALLINC SIOHL
yo, Lambeiu Road. London, England
Insist on “Singleton’s"-refuse all substitutes.
the best medicine for
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in tlie Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPA S M S and
COLIC.
A vyell-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE. RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery,
01 all Chemists. Prices in England, i,i, 3p, op.
Hade in England.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hundalee.
The hills are high to Hundalee,
And, edged by grass and clovei.
There runs a roadway, rare and free,
That calls the careless rover—
That lures him on, with curve and crest
As scouts to reconnoitre;
And little thought has he of rest,
Or wish to stay or loiter,
L'ntil he comes to Ilundalee
And sees the gleam alluring
Of sun-wraiths under swaying tree,
Where Conway thunders to the sea
Fast mountain peaks enduring.
Above the climbing roadway lean
The bright leaves that have broken
The light, with shadows blue between,
To be a wayside token
Of peacefulness and lives that know
The joy of rest and (piiet;
That never heed the roads that go,
Nor hear the road-songs’ riot;
That know that happiness can be
Where quiet winds are stirring
The wattle-blooms at Ilundalee—
Oh ! mottled glooms of light and tree,
That mock the mad wheels’ whirring!
The sun rides high o’er Hundalee,
The white clouds gleam above it.
There are no travellers who see
Its shaded ways but love it.
Yet on and on the grey roads go
To that far star that beckons.
And (Destiny has made it so,
The law that plans and reckons)
Wo must push on past Hundalee,
Sweet name like waters singing.
And turn our backs on Hundalee.
And burn our tracks from Ilundalee,
For all its beauty clinging.
If Love had lived at Hundalee—
Who knows where Love has dwelling?—
His must have been the heart-song free
Across the brown hills swelling.
His must have been the fire that lit
Brown eyes in that red gloaming.
When down the road where shadows flit
A wanderer’s steps were homing.
Back to the gold of sun and tree
And someone he remembered.
Oh ! splendid road that sets men free;
Ah ! ended road, at Hundalee,
And home, and hearth red-embered.
MAORILAND.
WILL LAWSON.
Sea Fever.
The wind comes rippling through the silver
trees
Like the soft, kiss of waves upon a strand ;
The dry dust riots in the playful breeze,
And stabs my heart with thoughts of
whirling sand—
Of whirling sand, soft-yielding to the tread :
Of whirling sand along the hunchback
dunes
Such as I knew when late I walked and
found
The waters stained with red.
When at .the rim, beyond the calm lagoons.
Drifting and sinking slow 7 the sun was
drowned.
So in a thousand ways the cords that bind
My soul with thine, O sea, are subtly
draw r n ;
W ; th threads intrinsicate they lie entwined.
I cannot see the springing sun at dawn
Without an envy that his eye should reach
Across the dun grey plains, beyond the
hills,
And see. in ordered ranks, the wilful waves
Go bubbling up the beach,
E’en though, poor fool! he sickens of the
thrills,
Despising the delights my spirit craves.
These walls are dull; these trees have lost
their hue!
What freedom from the road and greedy
fence?
My soul is sick for all the space I knew,
Swelling beneath the skies, untamed,
immense
All ownerless, yet mine! aye. mine to hold !
My eyes grow sore to watch the sea again.
To see the tripping breakers whirl and nod.
In dimples wrought of gold,
Joyful and gleaming in a silver rain.
Where all the little waves laugh up at God!
X.S.W.
ALAN BYRON.
Companions of the Sorrowful Way.
•‘ln the midst of them He set a little child.”
In the midst of them He set a crimson
flower;
And the blossom, by the little one defiled,
Died broken in an hour.
In the midst of them He set a living tree.
Was it worm or was it canker at the root
That on a hempen stalk, for all to see,
There hung a dead white fruit?
'n the heart of them lie set a golden song,
It was set to a low dreaming tune;
lut the dreaming and the song went wrong
At the death-shadow’ of noon.
For death sat there beside the child
And the flower at his feet burned red ;
Ah. heart, was it God that smiled
For a dream that was dead ?
In the midst lie hung with shame upon a
cross—
Dear God. might the dream live again?
Is the sob of the great world’s loss
God’s cry for men?
Has He set us in the midst of His tears.
While the little one goes stumbling down
to death?
Did God weep out a million years
For the sweet of a violet’s breath?
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.


PERDRIAU TYRES SUPPORT AUSTRALIA’S REPUTATION.
When AUSTRALIAN TYRES can produce
definite proof of superiority as shown in Mr.
Byrne’s letter, here reproduced, there is no diffi-
culty in convincing the most sceptical car-owner
that we do make a tyre superior to all others for
Australian Conditions. Every Australian tyre
bought means employment found for Australian
workmen, who in turn contribute to your pros-
perity. Support the country that supports you.
It pays.
Obtainable from your Garage
.or from the manufacturers
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD.
270 Georg'e Street,
SYDNEY.
fig
?38
x
£»»//
uSj>»
=ma
ff
*
*4
10,000 miles on a Perdriau and still running.
Cowra, N.8.W.,
August 13, 1919.
To The Perdriau Rubber Co., Ltd.,
Dear Sir , —
Three years ago I bought from your agent here,
Mr. King, a Perdriau Tyre for my Ford Car. I
thought you would like to know that the tyre is still
in use on my Ford, and has already covered 10,000
miles.
This is beyond doubt the best tyre I have ever fitted
to my car, arid I assure you that when I next require
tyres, l shall not look any further than Perdriaus.
I am, sirs,
Yours faithfully,
J. J. BYRNE.
And at
122 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
307 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
69 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
312 Murray Street, Perth.
C.WY:
TOfHE SICKROOM
If no. ( the
STPTLdS
and. ' • v
DRRIfNS V. v
ms*
/. -.-
3S?
tn
mz
! /. ! if
in';
* ».
ii
si
K.WftHACC--CRRBBfe/,o
RfIDTHE KIfCHEN.’-
THIS IS THE
LIFE.
Healthy exercise all day in
the fresh air. At night,
dinner round the camp fire
—the jog of every boy.
Never were appetites
keener. But trust the
scouts to know something
good for camp time meals.
“REX”
Camp Pie
Voted by all to be the "best
spread ever.'' There's no-
thing quite like this appet-
ising combination of choice
meats to appease healthy
appetites. And it is so
absolutely good and whole-
some it may be eaten with-
out any fear.
REX CAMP PIE needs no
cooking, though it may be
heated and served hot if
you desire. There is no
waste. It is far more econ-
omical than fresh meat.
Sold by grocers everywhere
FOGGITT, JONES
& CO. LTD.
Packers of "Rex'' Pure
Food Products
Curers of "Rex'' Hams
and Bacon
J 960
s
\
as®**#.
|ty
i im«
vt
sSiSmSM
m
m
■
S Ham
IN
u c e onv6AL
HUDSON SUPER-SIX.
THE HUDSON SUPER-SIX is
* essentially a thoroughbred. Its record-
breaking successes following its advent
o o
electrified the automobile world. Never
before had a stock car performed like this
Car, and consistency was the keynote of its
accomplishments.
The superior quality of this Car compels a
price that removes it from the class of
popular-priced machines, yet the Super-Six
has sold in vast numbers in every community.
The irresistible appeal of the Car’s performance makes it
difficult for buyers to pass it by, with the result that every
day one sees the SUPBR-SIX on the road in‘ numbers never
before approached by any one large quality Car.
ESSEX.
TO th ose who do not know, let it first be
* said that the ESSEX is manufactured
in the Hudson factory, which is an abundant
guarantee concerning its quality.
It is a small Four-cylinder Motor, with the
patented HUDSON power-producing,
counter-balanced crankshaft; developing over
fifty horse-power, though actually under
twenty taxable horse-power.
Its performance is hardly second to the Super-Six, and its
quality will delight the most exacting purchaser.
It admirably fills the want of a small quality-car with
delightful performance and low cost of upkeep.
h n i
Dalg'ety & Company Limited.
136 PHillip Street, Sydney.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 40.— N0. 20 >3.
TiII!HSDAY, AUGUST 28, 1919.
Price 6d.
THE KING GOMES HOME AGAIN.


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
f or.SI Cs. 6d. per,annum you can have The Bulletin
sent regularly to yon every week for a year, to any
ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The. contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
MOD words, arc specially acceptable ), Paragraphs,
fetters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
llic copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Thr Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient ■ merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Golch. Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Daivson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others,
Canada.- —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
I'.C.,' G. S. Forsyth and Co., )} 1 Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A.— N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
I r .S.A. ; J. Roland Kay Co., 18)9 Conway Buildings,
Chicago, U.S.A.
Honolulu'.- —Home News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt ; M.
Iloung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon.— lP. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua, —Whitten Bros.. Samarai.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Ilowc Islands,
lOoz., Id. ; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise; 80s., lid.; Bioz. to lQoz., 3d.;
lOoz. to 19.02., 3id.; elsewhere, hot., lid., and id. each
additional 2oz.
fl&S&aZZelMi.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 28, 1919.
CARRYING THE PADDOCK TO THE
HORSE.
Australia is a land which, through incapa-
city or mis management, doesn’t grow enough
vegetable substances for its own needs. And
because it is supposed to be, above all
things, a producer of raw material, it is
time it should realise the magnitude of its
failure. Of course, it has, as a rule, a sur-
plus in some agricultural lines. But that
is not saying much for a continent with less
than two persons to each square mile. • As
much can be said for Denmark, with 180
persons to the square mile, and Holland,
with 513. It can show, in most years, a
good overplus of wheat, and a small one of
some cold-climate fruits and infinitesimal
surpluses in ordinary years of barley, onions,
potatoes and hay. But it is frequently short
of maize, oats and hops, as shown by
the imports; and it is always short of
sugar, cotton, flax, hemp, jute, rice, tobacco,
tea, coffee, cocoa, bananas, dates, arrowroot,
sago, nuts and some other ordinary green
stuff. When one set of items is balanced
against the other, Australia is an importer
of agricultural products rather than an ex-
porter. And the one big item which saves the
Commonwealth from being classed as an im-
porting country pure and simple came
definitely on to the export list only when
the policy was adopted of giving wheat un-
profitably cheap carriage on loan-money rail-
roads. 1
It is reckoned that there is n good time
coming for the wheat-exporting farmer
during the next year or two. Russia and
Siberia have been Bolsheviked out of the
supplying business for a time, arid Roumania
and Turkey are ruined for a time. Other
countries are partially ruined, and will want
to import more than usual for a time.
Everything is for a time. And if Aus-
Iralia is moved to rush more deeply into
the business of growing wheat for export
it is liable to all the greater crash in a year
or two when these temporary customers have
no further need for so distant a source of
supply. It Avill then be the discharged ser-
vant. the retrenched temporary employee,
the “loyalist” who isn’t wanted when the
strike is over. Before Australia sinks more
5i per cent, loan-money in wheat railways,
and spends more money on clearing, plough-
ing, fencing, house-building, rabbiting, buy-
ing machinery, road-making and so forth, it
ne'eds to be sure of permanent customers —
not customers for a couple of years. It can
only make them permanent by bringing them
here. As a matter of the most rudimentary
economy the logic lies that way. An average
adult, striking the balance between male
and female, weighs 1401 b. If he consumes
even lib. of heavy food per day (and the
foods we export, such as wheat, flour, meat
and fruit are all heavy) it means, supposing
he is an outside customer, carrying him
3651 b. of food per year. If a similar allow-
ance is ihade for back-loading of the things
he sends in exchange for the food, it means
carrying 7301 b. weight per annum for a
precarious customer weighing 1401 b. On
the basis of dead weight, it would, on a
year’s transactions, be five times cheaper
to bring the customer here. On a 10-years’
transaction it would be 50 times cheaper.
Xo man carries the grass paddock to the
horse instead of taking the horse to the
paddock ; yet that, and 1000 times worse, is
what is advocated by the people who sav
that Australia should devote itself to grow-
ing raw material for export instead of put-
ting. its soul into manufacturing problems.
For there is much more lost than the
freight charge involved in carrying 3651 b.
of food across the earth to a precarious
1401 b. customer. If that person comes here
lie immediately takes over £l4O of our State
and Federal debt. If he brings three de-
pendants the family takes over £560 of
debt. They pay that much to come in. The
stranger immediately begins to contribute
about £l5 a year, or £6O for the family, to
the State and Federal revenues. That is
what they pay to stay in. He spends the
other £l5O or £2OO or whatever it may be
of wages for the benefit of our people in-
stead of for the benefit of other people. He
shoulders a bit of municipal debt and con-
tributes to the rates. Through missing these
points the people who live mostly by carry-
ing the paddock to the horse are all very
poor the Hindu, the Chinaman, the Arab
the Egyptian, the Persian, the Russian, and!
before the manufacturing epoch, the Jap-
anese. Australia’s brief and razzle-dazzling
career may be said to have begun when its
population reached the 1,000-.000 mark tit
the end of 1858. In the succeeding 60 years
its peonle have staved off the problem' (1)
bv using up its wonderful gold deposits now
approaching exhaustion"; (2) by selling the
best parts of the public estate, having had
the unioue fortune to acquire a continent
uratis without fighting for it; (3) bv bor-
rowing about £700,000.000; (4) bv 'nrint-
mg about £00,00,000 of paper money
Aow, after one garish lifetime, the Aus-
tralian is up against it. He has to earn
his right to be a white man or paint him-
self brown in spirit and be a rvot
*** * *
Nothing can. be done by the childish device
ot sending the unemployed out prospecting.
-I 1 can hand out borrowed money to
a failure and tell him to go a-gypsvin°' in
Of H-OPO* of sold th»t ifbS It
tile toot ot the rainbow. Nothing perma-
nent can be done by borrowing, for all the
money that can be borrowed now is insuffi-
cient to pay the interest on what has been
borrowed already. Nothing at all can be
done by. taking violent measures against
the capitalist” ; he is quite a separate pro-
blem. \\ ealth may be evenly shared out or
be divided between millionaires and paupers
but that has no bearing on the fact that
Australia loafs along without producing
enough to live on in comfort—that it not
only imports manufactured goods of all
sorts, but also imports sugar, maize, oats,
hops, cotton, flax, hemp, jute, rice, tobacco,
bananas, tea, coffee, dates, sago, peas, beans,
fish, cocoa and a multitude of other things,
thus giving magnificent chances to the pro-
fiteer who is out of reach. Less than no-
thing can be done by guaranteeing the
farmer ss. per bushel for wheat unless some
one at the other end will guarantee to take
the surplus for a long term of years at 6s!
Australia should have a wonderful future
m agriculture as well as in manufactures,
for. though it has pottered a good deal with
wheat in the droughty South, half its pos-
sible crops haven’t been really attempted yet
and the best-watered lands are hardly
touched. But this doesn’t necessarily mean
that there is a great future in agriculture
for export—jn carrying the paddock to the
horse with no assurance that the horse will
buy it on presentation.
EFFICIENCY—OR GOOD-NIGHT.
“Every unit of the British overseas force must be
interchangeable. Soldiers trained in Australia, Eng-
land and Canada should be able to go into action
together, without the slightest preparatory training,
as a whole.”— Lieut.-General Monash.
Australia was unable to help for many
months after the Great War began chiefly
because its defence system did not co-
ordinate in any one important respect with
the British system. In a war which was
predestined to be one of artillery the Com-
monwealth began by having no heavy
artillery or howitzers. No one thought it
strange at the time, apparently; yet an
army without heavies is about as useful
these days as a cricket team without bowlers.
At a time when a British artillery division
consisted of four brigades each of three six-
gun batteries, an Australian division num-
bered three brigades of three four-gun bat-
teries. In other words, an Australian
division had 36 guns to a British division's
72. At the beginning of the war the Com-
monwealth had tw'o machine-guns to a bat-
talion—24 to a division. At the signing
of the Armistice the A.I.F. had 16 Lewis
guns (which are to all intents and pur noses
machine-guns) to each battalion; and in
addition there w r as a machine-gun battalion
of 64 Vickers-guns forming an integral part
of the division. These figures indicate the
importance of machine-gunning in modern
warfare; yet the C.M.F. is actually weaker
m machine-guns than it was five years ago.
And no change in this respect is fore-
shadowed in the recently-published Estab-
lishment for the military year which began
last month. So far as the artillery arm is
concerned, it has shrunk to the pathetic
position of two brigades to a division, each
brigade containing three 18pr. batteries of
four guns (as against the six-gun batteries
in use everywhere else) and one divisional
four-gun how. battery. Which means that
an Australian artillery division has 28 guns
to-day where it had an inadequate 3ti in
1914. And the situation is materially the
same in the other arms.
**' * *
Without an Establishment similar in every
respect to that of the rest of the Empire’s
forces the Commonwealth will not be able
to take its place in the line when help is
most needed, and it will not be able to train
junior officers and the rank and file in the
only way that is worth while. And without
a drastic change in the system of training
senior officers, there is little hope of getting
much good out of the majority of them
either. With a few brilliant exceptions of high
rank, such as White,. Citauvel and Brand,
and one or two junior men of the Lloyd
stamp, Australia’s regulars put up a sorry
performance throughout the war. The older
ones pottered about in base jobs and the
younger ones joined them there or went
home, leaving the big things to be done
administratively and in the field, by ex-
C.M.F. soldiers like Monash and ex-civilians
like Murray —men who learned all or
nearly all their soldiering after the war
began. The inferiority of the general run
of permanent officers at the beginning of
the war was a matter chiefly of lack of
opportunity to learn anything about real
soldiering, and the cure for it is a vastly
more liberal exchange system than is
promised at present. With the exception of
the Duntroon graduates, who are to do a
year in the British or Indian army, the
number of Australian officers who will have
an opportunity to learn how war is waged
on the most up-to-date lines is negligible.
To get the best results all permanent officers
"I il certain seniority—say on obtaining their
captaincy—should not only do Staff jobs
elsewhere, but, what is even more important
have had experience of life in a Regimental
unit which is unobtainable here. And any
capable Militia officers in a position to spend
J- months in this useful fashion should be
encouraged to do so. As the Permanent
forces are constituted, little or nothing is
clone by commissioned ranks but office work ;
and so far as the C.M.F. officers are con-
cernecl, they can never get much beyond
individual and company training. The ob-
vious outcome of trying to get more in the
LV h 111 ” 8 ' pe *\ od at t , heir dis Posal would
be that they would slur the essential elemen-
tary work with which they are charged.
It means that, as regards the higher
training, all these men have to rely on such
theoretical knowledge as they can get from
books-an even more dangerous thine £
military than in other spheres of activity
* * * *
lor good or evil the destinies of this
Commonwealth are linked up for a. number
°t years to come with those of Britain. We
are fated to stand or fall as a nation with
the rest of the Empire. I n the circum-
stances it is reasonable that our officers
should learn their jobs in the common school;
and with all its faults it is a sound one.
Ihe original B.E.F. earned the reputation
ni the early days of the war of being “an
army of n.c.o.’s” for the sole reason that its
training had been thorough. The amazinglv
rapid and accurate rifle-fire at Mons was
daa U : 1 1 ,u ' e /« deadly that the Germans
owned afterwards that they thought the
1 utish had hundreds of machine-guns,”
when the actual tally was two per battalion,
lo achieve this effect—which was a big fac-
tor in saving the world’s freedom— each pri-
vate had been tirelessly drilled and re-drilled
over years in the art of rifle-loading; and a
similar process went on right up the scale.
Uni officers who go on exchange to British
or Indian regiments will encounter this spirit
at the outset During their instructional
yeai they will get, successively, individual
training and platoon and company training
as though they were novices, in accordance
with the intensive British system. Thev will
pass on to battalion, brigade and divisional
training, which are impracticable here on
effective lines; and then to army man-
ceuvres, which are unheard of under the local
efence system. If they are keen men (and
there should be no room for anv other sort
m a modern army) they will come back with
?)J, d , i nd - rStan^, Dg of the technique of
then profession. Their chief task will then
be to appjy it to the Australian soldier—an
T h i° re f p ° nds “ore readily to
ftmknowledge in those over him
ti-fl/nim! W,th establishments and
Hu o methods systematised on such lines,
the Austiahaii Army of the future should be
able to jump into the fray when it is next
wanted, without dangerous and costly delay.
hnth+Ui p to be 110 systematisation, and if
both the Permanent forces and the Militia
f,d t be t - raiDe f as in the Past, by a power-
°£ ainateurs< incompetents and
mei i wh< \ abh °i’ hard work of any
ormv A , l i Strall r might as well scrap its
nlmt + ltog ? the l': ? ts next assailant is not
o° & ive lt: eigbt m onths to arm and
n?.f U P l i tse f °P niodern lines and learn the
ait and practice of contemporary warfare.
THE CASTE OF TRAITORS.
With the seamen’s strike over, Direct
Action will doubtless be less prominent for a
while; but this will only mean that it is
awaiting a better opportunity. It had no
more to do with the seamen’s strike than
with any and every other disturbance which
looks like yielding a profit. Most of its apostles
have no connection with the sea. They were
equally ready to advocate their policy of in-
surrection over the Townsville meat dispute,
or the compulsory military service matter, or
the, urgency of letting the Hun keep Alsace-
Lorraine on the “no annexation” ticket, or
the sending home of a Ilun agent, or the
Fremantle wharf-lumpers’ dispute, or any-
thing else. They would advocate Direct
Action over the problem of decimal coinage
if decimal coinage would bring them a follow-
ing, and infant baptism would suit them
quite well. They just want Direct Action,
aud the chance it might give them of rising
hke L E NtN or Bela Kun or Enver Pasha
or Carranza of Mexico, who were all preach-
ers ot liberty. These exemplars appeal to
them as aed Kelly did to people of arrested
development in a previous generation.
Eternal vigilance is said to be the price of
liberty. How near Australia has lately been
to losing its liberty on one knows. How
long it will be before it loses its liberty if
its -Labor party flirts with the Direct Act-
ioners no one knows either. Australia is
ruled in its all-Australian affairs and mostly,
also, m its State affairs on the principle of
One-Adult-Onc-\ ote. What trivial repairs
are wanted can be done as such repairs have
been done many times in the past, without
giving any section carte blanche to cut the
peoples throats at their discretion and fiv
their own wages for doing it. These people
(ton t propose to make the country’s manage-
ment of Federal affairs more liberal. On
the contrary, they propose to violently
upset the existing equality and go back to
the old class iniquity by restricting power
. a section of the people—the section which
\ S 11 u § to put them at the head of affairs.
And because these filibusters by intention
aie the worst sort of danger, the democrat
can have no truck with them. As conspira-
tors against the Commonwealth they rank
in their unpicturesque way, with Benedict
Arnold and the Doge Falieri and the
alleged person who bertayed Wallace.
Ihey are worse in a way because they repre-
sent a continuing offence. Arnold and
ifalieri were one-act traitors, and their
crime died with them. The same might be
said ot Judas Iscariot. He didn’t attempt
to create a party and to found a School of
Iscanotry. Many of them are unsuccessful
aspirants for billets in Parliament—men who
have for years had their chronic allotment
pegged out at the bottom of the poll, and
whose hope lies in making the 50 votes they
secured outweigh by force of arms the 1050
the other fellow secured. 'To disqualify 071
per cent, of the electors requires consider-
able violence, but it is possible for a man to
be so warped by well-deserved failure that
he is ready to let loose any horrors on the
people who didn’t vote for him. The 071
per cent, were “counter revolutionists” be-
fore the revolution started, and “counter-
revolutionists” get short shrift in the coun-
try. and under the system which Direct
Actioners quote as shining examples. There
lire, ot course, glib fools who talk Direct
Action just as feebly obscene persons ask
the Almighty to strike them blind. But
those who are in earnest know that they are
preaching upheaval, slaughter, arson, rape,
th-ett, the general breaking loose of the
criminal classes (who always get out of
hand save on the rare occasions when the
revolt is a purely military one conducted
under strict discipline), and the beginning
of horrors whereof no one can see the end.
Ihe rejected politicians who figure so largely
among Direct Actioners are not only out
for a reckoning with those who despised
them and smote their diseased vanity, but
are out for power which they can only‘attain
by violence, and the lower they are on the
polling list the more violence it will take to
carry them to the top.
* * * *
When the great strike is buried there will
be the usual breezy invitation to bury all
recrimination with it. As regards the mere
strikers yes, certainly! As regards their
outside supporters apart from the Direct
Action folk yes, assuredly! But those who
took this opportunity, as they take every
opportunity, to conspire against the Com-
monwealth and the self-governing rights of
the nation, should be listed by the people
and kept in remembrance. For them there
can be no toleration. They have preached
the butchery of women and children, the
murder of men, the plundering and burning
of homes, the horrors of rape and pillage
and famine and the destruction of industry
-tor their policy of revolution, when it
once gets loose, includes all these things. No
doubt, having turned the wild beasts loose,
they would wash their hands and disclaim all
responsibility—in fact, one of them said that
. new about the possible consequences
°f own policy and disclaimed all respon-
sibility in advance. But they must not be
allowed to escape responsibility. Because
it is urgent to take precautions against
further attempts upon the Commonwealth
and the people’s rights and liberties, they
must be remembered as the Caste of Trai-
tors. And considering the crime against
humanity which they advocate, they will get
off lightly on those terms.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Virtue of Leaning Up Against
Things.
Some good might be attained by the appoint-
ment of a Parliamentary Committee, at least
half Labor and the rest Nationalist, to in-
quire whether leaving off work and Leaning
Up Against Things is absolutely essential
to Liberty.. It would let the public know
that there is such a question, and that it is
almost the biggest one we have. It would
draw attention to the question. It would
drag forth some definite expression of opinion
on it. It is not necessarily a matter of
-Leaning Up Against Objects as a protest
against capitalism or insufficient wages, but
one of Leaning as a virtue in itself, even
though the .worker may be on piecework and
Leans at his own loss, or when the enterprise
is a State affair, and he is consequently his
own employer in a collective way. In every
kind of industry, except perhaps that of the
small, lone farmer, who would promptly starve
V>A e Leaned, production is slowing down.
Minister for Railways Fihellt, of the
Queensland Labor Government, lately stated
in the Assembly that the net amount earned
tor the State on the Queensland railways
had dropped from £lO2 per employee per
year in 1014 to £l7 in 101 S-10. The N. S.
M ales Railway Commissioner spoke e'lse-
•vluA°An,t,lfi same subject. He said that
in 1000 the value of all kinds of machinery
used in N S Wales factories was. in round
figures, £8,000.000. and the year’s work done
(the value of the output less cost of raw
materials) was £12,000,000 or 30s. worth of


■work for every 20s. worth of machine. At
latest advices the figures were £23.500,000
worth of plant and £26,750.000 worth of work,
or only 225.. 9d. worth of work extracted from
20s. worth of machine —often newer and
more up-to-date machine. This didn’t mean
that the appliances had struck, for the
machines haven’t called a single meeting to
advocate Leaning. A machine becomes obso-
lete as fast (though it may not wear out
quite as fast) whether it does much work
or little, or none, so when the willing iron
animal is compelled to do 25 per cent, less
for its keep it means either less wages or
higher prices to the human animal. In the
building trade and many others the same
slowing down is noticeable. Leaning is
preached by the newest school of industrial-
ists as a self-evident virtue which shines by
its own inherent radiance quite apart from
wage questions, and the newest sketch of
Paradise is a condition in which a male adult
will work 30 hours in the week, sleep 56
hours, eat for perhaps 10i hours if he can
manage to spend 30 minutes over each meal,
and not know exactly what to do with him-
self for 71A hours. Even on piece-jobs,
where the fast worker gains the profit of his
energy, there is a tendency to declare Lean-
ing Up Against Things the brand and ear-
mark and union ticket of the free citizen, and
to denounce insufficient Leaning as the sign
of a base tendency to “smooge” to some
blighted and nefarious oppressor who may
be the worker himself. Consequently there
are “dargs” by which the workers pledge
themselves to Lean at their own cost and to
the great privation and misery of their
families, and have a lot of time they hardly
know what to do with in some dreary coal
town where there is hardly anything to do.
Australia is at the point where it doesn’t
produce enough value to pay for its food and
clothes and lodging and sundries. This has
nothing to do with the uneven distribution
of wealth—it is the blank circumstance that
there is not enough to distribute. In fact,
it would be impossible to gave adults of both
sexes, from the presumably bloated squatter
at the top to whomsoever may be at the bot-
tom. anything like the terms which various
kinds of workers demand, for want of the
wherewithal to pay with. So there should
he an inquiry and a definite pronouncement
as to whether the doing of a minimum of
work and a maximum of Leaning Up
Against Substances is a virtue in itself and
an essential feature of human fredom. Even
the advocates of Leaping have always
shirked this sort of definition.
[Note. —This fine verse was censored while a Labor
Government was in power in the Commonwealth. An
anpeal was made from the Censor to Ministers. Hugh
Mahon came into conflict with his colleagues over it;
but permission to publish it was still refused.]
The Jap, the White and a
Superstition.
Mr. Oliver Bainbridge, said to be a writer
of books and a very great traveller, was
given a municipal reception in Sydney some
months ago before leaving as leader °f an
-expedition” to the South Sea Islands. Ibe
islands are fairly tame now. and they all
belong to foreign Powers, and there is even
a pub on .Taluit, which used to be about the
dead finish. Still. Mr. Bainbridge got his
send-off. and one alderman made the usual
remark that the guest’s journeyings would
tend to develop the great natural resources
of Australia. Then Mr. Bainbridge came
back and lectured about tropical Australia
and other things, and leading Japanese jour-
nalists grew interested. Thus one ot them,
Zumoto by name :
Admittedly the Australians do not like their nor-
thern climate. It is too not for the white mam
The Japanese are children of the sun and would
enjoy it and develop it under the auspices of Aus-
tralia and become good citizens of the Common-
wealth were they but given a fair opportunity.
Japan cannot think that the narrow determination
to preserve the color of Australia is based on
sufficient consideration....
This pose of Nippon us u child of the sun,
who ought to have the run of tropical Aus-
tralia because he is fitted for the place and
the Australian isn’t, is uot really his own.
He picked up the idea from foolish Bruce-
smithite Australians, who wanted cheap
colored labor, and thought, in their tremen-
dous ignorance, that all brownish or red-
dish men were tropical folk who basked in
radiance. Being an adaptable person, the
brownish man now uses the idea on all occa-
sions as a handy argument. Yet the Jap is
really a cold-weather creature, llis biggest city
is in the same latitude as Melbourne. The
big island with the big population corres-
ponds with Maoriland for approximation to
the Pole. It also corresponds with bleak
and frequently-frozen New York. The fur-
thest north part of cold Japan is about level
with Scotland. The furthest south part
doesn’t come near the tropics, though the
outlying possession of Formosa just touches
them and answers to Rockhampton. The
Australian is, on the other hand, fitted to
colonise tropical Australia because many of
his ancestors came from wanner places than a
great portion of Japan, and he has spent
over a century in learning to like a mild
climate. The trouble is that easily-won gold
and easily-borrowed loans have temporarily
demoralised him and made him averse to
pioneering. If the rulers of Australia would
assert that we are a tropical white people,
and a good tropical white people at that, by
moving the Federal capital into the mild
North, instead of crouching over a coal fire
in Melbourne, we would make an end of
the ridiculous pretensions of these bogus
“children of the sun.” The sunny children,
by the way, don’t propose to come as cheap
labor or as servants or as aliens, but as
citizens —full-blown citizens, with a vote aiid
seat in Parliament and a show for the Prime
Ministership.
The Great, North-South Line.
An Adelaide firm offers to complete the rail-
way across the continent from north to
south (Port Darwin to Port Augusta) for
about £8,000,000 payable in Government
bonds. The idea has a multitude of good
features and some bad ones, but the good
ones have a majority when the division is
taken. The principal things in its favor
may be summarised as follows:
(1) The new line would mostly run through coun-
try which actually possesses a rainfall —that is to
say, country that is marked with colors on the
rainfall map. The great patch south of the tropics
which is white on the map is the place with no
rain or with less than lOin. per annum, which is
much the same thing. There is a lot of dry land
on the North-to-Soutli line, but the railway across
that is mostly built already.
(2) It would turn two isolated Federal railways
(478 miles and 200 miles) which lead nowhere
into one continuous line which leads somewhere—
in fact, which would have a big port at each end
and a healthy tableland in the middle. The two
lines that lead nowhere don’t pay, but converted
into a line that leads somewhere they might pay.
(3) The work would mostly run through Federal
territory, so the land revenues which it created
would go to the Commonwealth. This is different
from building Federal railways for the improvement
of State lands as on the East-West route.
(4) It would be the first big effort to open up
tiie North. The North is the rich part of Aus-
tralia, for almost the whole of the drought country
lies south of the tropic line. Now that the gold
deposits which first made the fortune of the South
are no longer rich or easily worked, it is urgent to
do something with tiie North.
(5) Of the six divisions of tiie Australian main-
land there is only one, the Territory, which is
wholly isolated, so it calls fdr a line of communi-
cation more loudly than any other. It is the third
in point of size. It represents more than one-
sixth of the area of the Commonwealth. It contains
a greater extent of well-watered country than any
other State bar Queensland. And it has big rivers.
(6) By reason of its isolation the Territory is a
political problem which can only be solved by con-
necting it with the South; and the safety of the
South demands the connection.
So far only half Australia —the half with
most of the big drought and the decaying
goldfields in it —can be said to be railroaded.
The other half, which has only two isolated
fragments of line (200 miles and 114
miles), is waiting. The Nortli-to-Soutk line
represents a direct attack on the other half,
and the cutting of a road across the conti-
nent —not a road hugging the coast like the
one to the West. The loan idea is of course
objectionable; yet as the Commonwealth
attaches a sinking fund to its loans, the
thing is less objectionable in its case than
in most.
We and Uncle Sam.
Mark Sheldon, the Commonwealth Com-
missioner who has been sent to the U.S.A.
to “promote trade relations,” will do his
most valuable work for Australia first by
arousing us to see what America is
doing to make us its trade vassal, and then
by suggesting how we may protect ourselves
through the adoption of America’s own de-
vices. There is certainly an element of the
grotesque in the idea that the U.S. person
is a guileless child of nature who requires
instruction, at our expense, in the art of
peaceful penetration. For instance, a remark-
able measure —the Werr-Pomerene law —has
lately been passed at Washington to author-
ise the formation of trusts of any and every
kind and size, provided they operate inAus-
tralia or elsewhere outside the Union. Trusts
are accursed and iniquitous and illegal it
they operate inside the States; but the curse
and iniquity are expressly allowed inside the
States, provided the operations are done out-
side the States and for the benefit of the
States, any kind of curse or iniquity being
good enough for the outsider. There
are schemes mentioned also for opening
American banks here to finance American
trade run on these lines. Possibly this may
resolve itself into a more unobtrusive plan
for getting control of and extending some
existing banks. Also there is talk or new
trade papers here to advertise U.S. goods
and to preach the blessings of h reetrade.
The representatives of a foreign Protection-
ist country, Mr. Sheldon may warn us,
always denounce Protection as a curse and
urge other countries to practise the blessed
policy of Freetrade, so that the markets ot
these countries may be kept open to the
foreign Protectionist people. This, he may
recall, was a feature of the policy of Max
ITiksch. the German Government’s commer-
cial agent who ran a Freetrade paper and
a Freetrade League in Victoria in pre-I eder-
ation days, and even wormed his way into
politics. The agent of a foreign Protec-
tionist country has even been suspected ot
subsidising Australian Freetrade politicians.
The Commissioner may likewise do us the
good service of getting us to understand that
the II.S. has reduced proud Britain to the
status of a commercial vassal—no longer the
great collector of tribute from foreign debt-
ors, but a payer of tribute to the U-S.
absentee. And he may tell us that Aus-
tralia, as a satellite of Britain, will
also become a U.S. vassal if sufficient
securities pass from British,investors, under
stress, to people across the Atlantic,
lie will, however, this paper hopes, tell Aus-
tralia that it may do some things for itself in
another direction. Thus the opening ol
foreign banks might be made illegal; also
the'transfer of shares in Australian banks
to non-residents or their agents, lie can
explain what the U.S. has done in a similar
way. It may be enacted, too, that when
any foreign agent does things here that
would be illegal in his own country the
penalty will be the same as if they were done
in his own country. In other words, the
U.S. anti-trust law might be imported here
bodily, on the ground that it is a good law.
The U.S. tariff, so far as it can be applied
to Australian conditions, might also be im-
ported bodily. The Bulletin dislikes im-
portation in a general way, but it is willing
to make exceptions. And a .most strenuous
policy of paying off our foreign debts might
bo inaugurated. Now that Britain has lost
its supreme position in the world s money-
market arid lias taken to peddling the
securities it holds to foreign "buyers, we
don’t really know what kind of person may
prove to be our foreign creditor one of these
days, and he may be someone who will
demand all- manner of trade concessions
when the bill falls due. Our one plan of
safety is to be in a position to meet the bill.
No Carnage, No Honor.
When it was disclosed cautiously in 1916
that Jellicoe had had a chance to destroy
the German High Seas Fleet and had not
done so, an angry outcry arose from those
who stay at home and read the cables ; and
in due course the Admiral lost his command.
It was a hint to leaders at sea and on shore
not to be over-scrupulous with the lives ot
those under them; and it was taken to
heart—in the A.I.F. as much as in any
force. “Glory or Westminster Abbey’ is
the watchword that stirs the blood of the
fireside hero. And yet it is a selfish senti-
ment. and there are circumstances under
which it may be an entirely unpatriotic
one. The man who directs the carnage
gets the glory if his venture happens to
succeed; and he may join the immortals at
Westminster if he is killed. But for the
thousands under him there is no prospect
of great distinction, while there is every
chance of a dreadful death. In other
words, the gamble as between the Admiral
and the A.B. is hideously unfair. When,
in the failing evening light, three years ago,
Jellicoe swung away from Von Scheer’s
squadron, he had at least two things to
consider: (1) Whether, in the circum-
stances, the risk was worth it in lives, and
(2) whether it was worth it in ships. The
whole world now knows a thing which only
Jellicoe and the Admiralty knew then—
that the British Navy was by no means the
flawless instrument which the politicians
were claiming that it was. If something
had gone wrong at Jutland and Jellicoe’s
fleet had been worsted, Britain would have
been in a bad way. It was without effective
reserves, while the Germans had a superior-
ity both in destroyers and in submarines.
By avoiding battle Jellicoe threw away
the opportunity Fate offered him of figuring
as another Nelson. Not. of course, through
personal distaste of the risk (such considera-
tions do not enter the minds of men of his
calibre), but bedause he was big enough to
sink himself in the interests of his fleet and
his country. There would be thousands of
mourning homes less in the Empire to-day
if there had been more leaders afloat and
ashore with his nerve and gift for quick
thinking. On the other hand, the issue of
titles, C.M.G.’s and D.S.O.’s would have
been about halved. The politicians who
provide such things demand results at any
price. Fifty yards of mud maybe at the
cost of a battalion; or a profitless naval
diversion at the expense of half a dozen
capital ships. But always results. The
position is inevitable where the ethics,
tactics and strategy of warfare are all
estimated from a great distance, mostly by
men who have never made war and who
never expect to personally feel its wounds.
Land for Diggers.
The S. Aus. Government instructional farm
for Digger trainees fairly bulges with re-
turned men, many of whom have finished the
course of training laid down ; but. no land
being available for them, they remain on the
farm, while hundreds of untrained men have
to wait outside the fence. To add to his cup
of joy, the would-be Digger farmer has the
satisfaction ■ of knowing that thousands of
acres of the very best arable land in South
Aus. are owned by Germans. During a land
sale held recently in the Lower North, a
German and a man representing a returned
soldier were the only competitors for a block.
Bidding was keen, but the German ran the.
price to £ll ss. per acre, and at that it was
knocked down to him. On the fall of the
hammer about 30 other Germans who had
been interested spectators cheered their
countryman. Blackburn. Y.C.. mentioned
the incident in the Assembly and asked the
responsible Minister what he was going to
do about it. The Minister said “he was
afraid nothing could be done/’ But some-
thing can be done. For instance, Parliament
might declare that no sale of land shall be
legal unless- the property has first been duly
offered to and declined by the Repatriation
Department, and not even then until it has
been on offer for three months at a fixed
price for bona-fide purchase by returned
men privately.
The Need of Bomb-proof Seats for the
Mighty.
“Jake B.’s” vindication
“Dnir.mt” (B. 7/8/’l9), in an attempt to prove
that the old men who make wars are immune from
the danger of hostile air-raids, notes that the Main
Square of Abbeville was devastated by the bombs
of raiding aeroplanes, while Bihdwood'b head-
quarters, close by, were left untouched. The fact
that the square, which occupies about the same
space as the average French chateau, was devastated
is surely a proof of the ability of an aeroplane to
hit its objective when necessary.
As regards the probable fate of the men who were
to have bombed Berlin, it is instructive to consider
what happened to the Huns who bombed London.
Out of the 300-odd Gothas which crossed the English
coast line, at least 1)8 per cent, of them escaped
unhurt. (The figures were supplied by the Air Minis-
try in a Parliamentary Paper entitled “A Synopsis
of the British Air Effort during the War.”) The
Hun may have had no definite objective in London,
as "Digger” states, and just dropped his bombs indis-
criminately, yet the result, from his point of view,
quite justified the small sacrifice.
The effect on the English morale, by the way,
was nothing to what the liun suffered from our
vaids. One of the leading doctors of Cologne, on
whom I happened, to be billeted, informed me that
the minute British bombing machines crossed tin'
line towards Hunland, the alarm would be given
all along the Rhine. Being ignorant of our objec-
tive, the population of all the Rhine towns would
take cover, and it was quite common for families
to pass nights in their cellars, in fear of raids that
didn’t come within 00 miles of them. Even ii the-c
raids only had the effect of driving the old men
down among the rats and lager barrels to pass a
few sleepless nights, they were well worth while,
considering how small were our losses on either day
or night bombing excursions.
The prophecy that “the war will be won in the
air” didn’t exactly vindicate itself; in fact, it was
only used by a certain class who wished to appeal-
wise and unusual. Yet, judging by what went on
in France, we can draw three conclusions, slightly
different from “Digger’s,” who contends that the
aeroplane was little more than a sort of gigantic
irritant. They are:—
(1) When we wanted to bomb a certain objective,
whether it was a dump, or a headquarters, or a
pavC square, we generally did it.
(2) The artillery was entirely dependent on the
aeroplane for the accuracy of shoots, particularly on
long-range work.
(3) By maintaining an aggressive service of purely
fighting aeroplanes, we confined the enemy “artillery-
co-operation” machines to. within about a mile of
their own side of the line, while our machines fre-
quently flew right over their targets in recording
shoots. . ,
I hate to disturb the peace of nund of the obi
men who make wars; yet I counsel them, if they
want to be immune from the dangers of any
future air raid, to think twice about throwing down
the next glove.
“Tadjud” : Telegraph rates in Australia are
too cheap. For instance, a wire from
Thursday Island to Broome (W.A.) travels
via Townsville, Brisbane, Sydney, Adelaide,
Perth and Roebourne, being handled twice
(in and out) in each place, passes through
much expensive and short-lived telegraph
machinery, and over thousands of miles ot
line across tracts where upkeep expenses
are tremendous. Rate, 10 words for is.
That wire is a dead loss. This flat rate (lt>
words for Is.) applies to all inter-State busi-
ness. Even between neighboring State capi-
tals it is too cheap. Two-word addresses
and no signature or at most a single word
are the rule in business telegrams. This
leaves room for 13 or 14 words of actual
message for one shilling. Code messages
(Main words standing for a sentence or so
each) actually pass at the same rate;
“cipher” (jumbled letters) a trifle extra. If
it were doubled the rate would still be cheap.
On account of the army of “punchers” and
mechanics and the heavier current required
for its operation, the speedy automatic
telegraph in no way cheapened operation. If
anything it slightly increased the cost. The
rate works out about the same as that
charged in England, where 40 million people
use the telegraph in an area smaller than
Victoria. English lines are underground,
which completely cuts out the enormous ex-
pense and upkeep -of poles. Maintenance
costs there are trifling by comparison with
those of our overhead system. The flat-
rate system leads, further, to absurdities, to
remedy which State boundaries should, be
ignored and a zone system, as in the United
States, introduced.
Protests which The Bulletin receives
from Bagdad show that the Australian wire-
less unit in Mesopotamia is gravely dissatis-
fied. After doing fine service under condi-
tions which taxed the endurance of the
strongest, it now finds itself a fixture in
almost intolerable surroundings. Recog-
nising that men who either volunteered or
were conscripted to help win the war could
not fairly be detained after Peace had been
signed, the British Army offered special pay
to such men as it was necessary to maintain
as an army of occupation. The army in
Mesopotamia receives this special pay, and
surely deserves it; but, though the British
chiefs detain the Australian wireless unit be-
cause of its special usefulness, that unit does
not share in the special pay, its pay being a
matter for the Australian Government to de-
termine. Indeed, owing to the increased
Ireland—1916.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
All b revered was this my Island, she
Whom through the granite years 1 wept and
loved ;
All that I wished, to make my Island free
Of blood from mine a universe removed ;
To seat her where the younger nations sit,
Her soul stripped clean of ancient sorrow-
ings,
To dream my dream of Brian and the Kings,
To clothe my dream in flesh and worship it.
For this I bound the falchion to my side
In sinless sinning ! For these things I died!
Bight of the stronger, when the Norman
came,
Bogued me and ravished me and buffeted,
Blackened and scotched my heart with steel
and flame,
Cinctured with thorns my felon-shaven head.
The needy Frank and Gascon venturer,
Glutted from Senlac, hot for gear and gold,
Parcelled my land in march and baron-hold,
lloarse-laughing at the comely shame of her,
Tortured but could not tame my plaintless
pride.
This I remember, and for this I died !
Bruised and unbroken, swathed in sweat and
rags,
Sobbing, yet valiant, shattered but unspent,
Housed in the bogland, hiding in the crags,
Dying a dog’s death, grim and well-content,
My poet-soul out-daring dearth and death —
Bondman of every motley creed and crew—
Drank at the bitter cup of cycles, knew
The “spacious days of great Elizabeth”!
If this I should forget, Christ and the Bride
Forget me also! For this, too, I died !
I was the spoil of all the centuries,
And am forgotten. Later wrongs outweigh
Mine, for the grief of men looks overseas,
And Belgium was the spoil of yesterday.
Can Time’s effluxion make injustice just?
Men’s memories are facile to forget
Poland’s Gethsemane and bloody sweat,
And the long grief that stamped my heart to
dust!
O. age-sought recompense by men denied,
By this I seek you, and for this I died !
Scotland I know, and how her valor's crown,
Hard-won, scarce-held, by scarp and moun-
tain steep,
Shone on her helm the hardy decades down,
Guarding the freedom that I could not keep;
And by the crown she linked at last with
hers,
As by the nationhood I loved as she,
I swore it on my cross-hilt wistfully
My sons should be my land’s leal worship-
pers.
And this my oath, sworn by the Crucified,
I held and hold to —and therefor I died!
Shall mercy spring from dull hearts trebly-
stoned?
Shall alien blood and alien creed allot
Betrayal where no fealty is owned,
Disloyalty where loyalty is .not?
My blood upon the roadway reddens yet,
The iron of the years is in my soul,
The pen of Fate is set upon the scroll,
7am what you have made! Can I forget?
These things I cherish : is it marvel, then,
I died for them, as I shall die again?
victoria.
J. ALEX. ALLAN.


Copies of any of the TECHNICAL, SCIENTIFIC or COMHERCIAL BOOKS
that were on view at the recent PUBLIC LIBRARY EXHIBITION
CAN BE
OBTAINED
THROUGH-
df
SWAIN & CO., LTD.,
MAGAZINES AND PERIODICALS—
OUR STOCK IS RIGHT UP TO DATE
AND WE SPECIALISE IN PROCURING FROM
ABROAD ANYTHING YOU NEED THAT IS OUT OF
THE ORDINARY RUN.
BENTLY’S CABLE CODE, £5/15/=
THE SHOP FOR—
-STATIONERY-
COMMERCIAL STATIONERY & OFFICE REQUISITES.
PRINTING AND ENGRAVING.
RUBBER STAMPS—BOOKBINDING.
LEGAL FORMS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
MATHEMATICAL INSTRUMENTS.
DRAUGHTSMEN’S SUPPLIES.
THE MOST COMPLETE STOCK IN SYDNEY.
FOUNTAIN-PENS OF EVERY KIND.
ORIGINAL PAINTINGS BY AUSTRALIAN ARTISTS.
REPRODUCTIONS OF WORLD-FAMOUS AND
POPULAR PICTURES.
WE HAVE TWO FINE GALLERIES DEVOTED TO
DISPLAYING THE LARGEST COLLECTION IN
AUSTRALIA.
NOVELTIES & FANCY GOODS GALORE
value lately put upon the rupee, these Aus-
tralians find that from April 1 they are
actually now receiving less. They suffer as
all men are apt to who have two masters —
one to pay them ; the other to control them.
Against their British masters they have no
grievance. If they are needed they are
prepared to remain. But, after so long ser-
vice in conditions so trying —90 per cent, of
them have been in hospital—they do protest
against being apparently abandoned by their
own country and their own Government.
♦
‘‘Gunner’s” story of Defence anomalies: —
The “services” are run on odd lines. A Bulletin
par (14/8/’l9) drew the attention of A.I.F. n.e.o.’s
to the fact that there are jobs waiting some hundreds
of them at £IBO per annum. The position of staff-
sergeant-major is an honorable one, but it involves
a good deal of responsibility and toil in the shape
of office work, in addition to the business of in-
structing members of the C.M.F. And all for 9s. lOd.
per diem! Meanwhile under the new scheme which
has just come into force in the R.A.N., an A.B. gets
£3 Os. Bd. a week. The staff-sergeant-major gets no
extras barring his uniform ; he hasn’t even the right
to live in a barracks. The A.B. gets quarters, fuel,
light, rations and all clothing free. And if he happens
to be time-expired he gets a cash bonus, and a
month’s leave on re-engaging. It may or may not
have a bearing on the above, but it is a fact that
many Diggers are now joining the Navy, and that
numbers of those who left'the R.A.N. are re-engag-
ing. No ex-sailors, and very few Diggers, are so
much as looking at the Army at the present time.
The pay and other descrepancies as between the
Navy and the Army are not more remarkable, by the
way, than those which exist in the Army itself. Tiius
the Garrison sergeant-major may get, with all incre-
ments, £2BO per annum. That is to say, £SO more
per year than a subaltern who on his arrival from
Duntroon begins with £250. In no other Army is
a man liable to be financially prejudiced by getting
promoted. And there are few other armies in which,
in addition to an indifferent scale of pay, there are
no pensions.
The R.A.N. is a very attractive service from the
Aussie standpoint, and there would be a rush for it
on the part of returned men, were it not for one.
thing. That is, of course, the irritating “Tommy”
form of discipline which it has taken over from the
R.N. It would be a great thing for the Australian
Navy if some seafaring Bmnwoon would but arise
and show the world the way to run a fleet on the
disciplinary lines that were so successful in the case
of the A.I.F.
“N.J.H.”: The Bulletin is not correct
in saying that “N. S. Wales is now the only
State in the Commonwealth without oper-
ative anti-venereal legislation.” South Ails,
has no such legislation, though there is an
agitation for it in Adelaide amongst the
younger and less conservative members of
the medical profession, especially those who
served in the war. The experience of the
war should, as The Bulletin suggests,
pretty well clinch the argument. Dr.
Oumpston, in the preface to his pamphlet
lately much discussed,'says:—
At least sufficient information has been collected
to show that in some States the civil machinery is
at present not in a position to deaf adequately with
the danger to the community presented by the dis-
charge of 5!>,00l) or more soldiers who have Buffered
front venereal disease, some of whom must still
be in an infective condition at the time of their
discharge.
After reflecting on the possibilities created
by this condition of affairs for States like
South Aus., which has no anti-venereal legis-
lation, and N. S. Wales, which has such
legislation but doesn’t seem in a hurry to
use it, we can perhaps read without a shudder
that ‘‘between July, 1915, and April, 1918,
500 members of ships’ crews were removed
from vessels suffering from venereal dis-
eases. Altogether 23 per cent, of these were
in the stewards’ department, handling food,
many being in a highly infective condition.”
_
One of the “callow junior officers” in
reply:—
A correspondent who lately attacked the Senior
Cadet training-system says that the boys go
to the rifle-range not knowing anything of the hand-
ling of a rifle. He is quite wrong. Each cadet has
a training in the care and cleaning of arms and
receives aiming and firing inst uction. He is taught
the theories of sighting; has results of inaccuracy
in aiming demonstrated; and among many other
things is instructed in aiming combined with
trigger-pressing, aiming off for wind, rapid adjust-
ment of sights, and the various positions of firing.
Having been instructed in these things he is tested
as to knowledge of the rifle and its correct handling
before he goes to the range. In any Area-office
may be seen a syllabus of the training. It includes
squad drill, musketry instruction, physical drill and
lectures. The lectures are based on the teaching of
the spirit of comradeship, patriotism and the develop-
ment of a soldierly spirit; also hygiene and sani-
tation. Of late the Defence Department has been
making the teaching of physical drill the strong
point: more time is devoted to it than any other
subject. The “callow junior officers” have gradu-
ated from the ranks and have to pass an examina-
tion in field training, which includes squad, platoon,
company and battalion drill; also extended-order
drill, regimental duties, map-reading and physical
drill.
The officers of the Senior Cadets have many griev-
ances. Chief among them is the lack of opportunity
to procure a commission in the Citizen Forces. Regu-
lations say they are eligible to compete in competi-
tive examinations for a commission, but the number
of examinations held are very few indeed. If a
Senior Cadet officer wishes to go over to the Citizen
Forces he must first resign his commission in the
Senior Cadets, and when he gets in the Militia he must
start from the ranks and work up again. Even
then, if he has not a good deal of influence behind
him, his chances of ever getting above the rank of
sergeant or corporal are very small.
At present Senior Cadet Corps office s get a very
small allowance, which is for the purpose of pro-
viding books and meeting other out-of-pocket ex-
penses. They have to pay most of the cost of their
uniform, or accept the issue uniform, which is a
very mean one indeed. If the Defence Department
would hold yearly schools of instruction for them
and compensate them for the time lost it would not
be long before we had an efficient office ing of the
corps. Returned men will have nothing to do with
the work under the present system of pay and
organisation.
If the N. S. Wales Government had any
real public spirit it would get down in-
stantly to the unpleasant and unpopular job
of hard economy. Even if conditions in the
country were satisfactory there would be
urgent need of it; and the dismally gloomy
outlook makes it vastly more urgent. There
have been heavy stock losses, with no lamb-
ing to speak of; and the position is aggra-
BEFORE HIS SHRINE.
PROFITEER: "Be good unto me, for I have hied the people mercilessly for thy sake!”
vated by bad conditions in Queensland,
where also the sugar crop threatens to be
a dud on account of extraordinary frosts.
A day or two after the Great War started
the N.S.W. Government offered its advice
to the people—“ Spend, spend, spend !” Now
it almost as stupidly adopts another parrot-
cry—“Produce, produce, produce!” Seeing
that the principal production over two-
thirds of the State has failed, and nothing
that the would-be producer can do can make
it anything else but a failure, the first duty
of the Government is to economise, econo-
mise, economise ! The producer will have to,
anyway.
A sense of humor was lacking in the per-
son who drafted the resolution for the sea-
men’s meeting in Sydney last week, and the
men who adopted it must have been as mirth-
less as preachers with monkey-shaves. It
read :
This meeting of the Sydney branch of the Feder-
ated Seamen’s Union decides not to return to work
until the seamen’s demands are conceded at a round-
table conference.
It is only* needless wear and tear of the
round table to confer if the demands are all
to be granted in any case. Why waste good
furniture over a foregone conclusion?
This is an American view of it. Champ
Clark, Speaker of the U.S. Congress, re-
cently boomed : “It is urged that a million
or two of our soldiers should be kept over
there (Germany) for police duty—an utter
absurdity! If, after ive defeated the Germans
for them, the Allies can’t do the policing,
let the policing be left undone.” Someone
should do a grand allegorical picture of
Champ Clark washing his hands of Europe.
Sydney D.T. put it this way:—-
THE PRIME MINSTER.
Nearing Fremantle.
Probably a misprint for “gas-mantle.”
It is admitted now that Sylvia Pank-
hurst, Tom Walsh’s sister-in-law, was
“assisted” by the anti-British Bolsheviks.
Her little paper “of extreme views” was
subsidised by Zachariasson, Bela Kun’s spy
and agent.
"Fax”: The Bulletin (14/8/T9) re-
cords that Frank Tudor belauded the “phil-
anthropy” of John Wren in connection with
a free bun-spread at Collingwood Town Hall.
It was ever thus with official Labor and
John Wren. In the days of his notorious
Collingwood tote, Labor members, both
State and Federal, delighted to do honor to
Wren; hence the mildness of the present
writer’s admiration for Labor members. As
far as Melbourne is concerned, Labor poli-
tics are associated with recollections of the
illicit tote which for years assisted Colling-
wood to remain poverty-stricken and cast
scandalous reflections on the local police.
Incidentally, Victoria would most probably
have put a Labor party in power long ere
this but for the conspicuous manner in
which leading Laborites did honor to Wren
whilst he was running the barricaded bet-
ting-shop. Not all Labor members, of course,
but many of them. As long as Wren was
amassing wealth by his own unlawful tote
the Labor speech-makers professed to
approve of his public spirit in supplying a
public want which Parliament refused to
legalise ; but as soon as he surrendered his
fortress and invested his money in pony-
racecourses (where a legalised tote would
not have been established even though Par-
liament had made the machine lawful under
V.R.C. control) Labor members ceased to
advocate the long-felt want. No more talk
then about the grand democratic character
of the unpermitted machine! Another big
dividend in Adelaide the other day moved
the Age to hope that the necessary legisla-
tion will be passed in Victoria for the intro-
duction of the totalisator in the near future.
I don’t share the Age’s hopefulness. The
influences which have kept Victoria toteless
all these years are stronger than ever, and
never a Labor member opens his mouth to
denounce them.
The “Federal Capital League” rushed
Hughes with a wireless message demanding
“fulfilment of Constitution regarding
capital.” The Constitution should certainly
be fulfilled. But there is nothing in the
Constitution about Canberra, or about any
crazy capital in two pieces 130 miles apart,
or about a metropolis which even now, when
its population is only about 2000, has its
water pumped up to it by machinery driven
by coal railroaded at great expense from
Newcastle or Bnlli or Lithgow. What it will
cost to pump up water for 100.000 people,
and what the city will do when there is a
coal strike, no one knows. But anybody
knows that a pump-water metropolis in two
fragments isn’t a thing for a whole continent
to be proud of. And the question is whether
the Commonwealth shall go ahead with a ■
dead-horse capital that it can never be proud
of. or try to find one which has a reason-
able chance of being self-supporting.
Dan Levy is the 15th Speaker of the X. S.
Wales Assembly. Richard Denis Meagher
was the unlucky 13th. Five of Danny’s pre-
decessors were lawyers.
AVhen the Rev. Maitland Woods pro-
nounced some bones found by Certain Dig-
gers in Palestine to be those of the late
St. George, the amiable chaplain sent a
frantic wire to Colonel Farr: "Have found
the bones of St. George.” Farr wired back:
"Man mentioned not on nominal roll. Was
identification disc with remains?”
Brief correspondence with the P.M.G. :
Editor of The Bulletin.— Sir, I have noted pars
in The Bulletin, and desire you to inform your
leaders that in each case the reply can be condensed
into a word of four letters.—Yours, etc., Willum
Webster.
Dear Mr. Webster, —Your note of the !)tli was a
little ambiguous; but on referring it to the office-
boy he guessed the missing word at once —TRUE.—
Yours, etc., Editor Bulletin.
“W. J.H.” ; Who was the first Australian
killed in action in the war? Having to un-
veil an honor-roll at Junee (N.S. \V.). I
looked around for the parents of the first
boy killed from Junee Public School, and
discovered Mr. G. Leggett, railway clerk,
Goulburn. His son, W. T. Leggett, a Junee
native, fell on October 14, 1914. lie was
with the Life Guards and was across with
the first rush. Killed alongside of him were
an English M.l.\, a lord and another private.
A memorial service was held in Westminster
Abbey for these four soldiers.
Cerretti, former Apostolic Delegate in
Sydney, represented the Pope at the Peace
Conference, and got very little out of it.
The only tangible advantage he gained was
in conjunction with the Chinese represen-
tatives. When the Allies, including Ger-
mans, occupied Pekin, in 1900. the Germans
carried away to Berlin, from the Palace, a
wonderful big globe of the world, made by
a Jesuit priest in 1074. This is to be
returned to Pekin.
From the press table: —
Queensland Premier Ryan was optimistic during
the trial of his libel action against Melbourne
Argus in the High Court at Sydney last week.
Of course he didn’t expect to get £lO,OOO, but
he made certain of a slice. What the Argus thought
nobody knows, for Adrian Knox and Broomfield,
its counsel, are sad-faced people anyhow. Ryan
stood the test of an awkward cross-examination
well. If he had not argued so much with Knox
lie would have stood it still better. Knox depended
mainly upon his address to the jury. In a way
the effort was a masterpiece, argument being care-
fully mixed with hot air and Buzzfuzz. He began
with a gag, and finished with a sob and a gesture
of despair for the Commonwealth if Ryan got 2d.
Macrossan, of Brisbane, who argued the Ryan side,
is really a better speaker than the heavyweight,
hut less artful. He unwound himself with great
fluency and confidence—and a few hours later got
the shock of his young life. All through the
faces of the jury had been as impassive as tomb-
stones. When after six hours they emerged from
retirement every countenance was even more solemn.
“Have you agreed?” asked Isaacs. “Three-fourths
of us have,” said the foreman. “We have written
our answers to some of the questions.” “Let me
see,” said Isaacs, and reached over for the paper
on which the problems had been typed (44
of them). “Ah,” remarked Isaacs, and rubbed
his chin. It transpired that the jury lia<3 taken a
vote on each question in succession and recorded
the voting. The divisions varied. Isaacs sent the
twelve back to see if they could agree by three-
fourths majorities on all the questions they could
answer. They came back in half an hour
and said “Yes.” Isaacs looked again, and said “Ah,”
and again rubbed his chin; remarked that there
were two questions not answered at all, and sent
them away to divide again. Once more they
came back- and said they couldn't understand the
questions, that the preamble was beyond compre-
hension, and that it did not matter whether the
questions were answered or riot. Isaacs said “Ah”
some more and tried to explain, incidentally
handing, them a couple more questions. He was
a bit doubtful himself whether the questions with
the perplexing preamble required to be answered.
Ihe confab was repeated five times in two hours
and a. half. Just before midnight the foreman
wearily remarked that the jury wanted to go to
bed. They had had 14 hours of Ryan and the
Argus at a stretch. So Isaac's went to bed too.
Next morning, when the dozen were called for a
final deliverance, they announced that they could
not answer anything, and were in hopeless dis-
agreement. One thing had been revealed, however,
duiing the veiled debates on the previous night
between Tsaacs and the foreman. This was that
the jury had, by a three-fourths majority, decided
that the damages Ryan was entitled to amounted
to Od. When this revelation struck the air the
ityan corner suddenly looked as happy as 17
funerals, and Knox beamed. The eventual dis-
agreement saved Ryan from what had looked a
certain smack in the eye, but it also raises complex
questions of law and conundrums about costs.


WORK for SOLDIERS
If all the Iron and Steel Products imported into Australia were made by
our own people, work at Australian rates of wages would be given to
not less than
3 0,000 MEN
Such work is specially suitable for men returned from the Front. These
30,000 men could earn more than
£5,000,000 per Annum
Every Australian Engineer is asked to help by using Nothing but
Australian Iron and Steel
We have the Iron Ore; we have the Coal; we know how to use both.
Nothing is needed now except Defence against the Dumper.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Watt felt quite at home when he carried
Hughes’s baby down the gangway at b re-
man tk on Saturday. He has been carrying
Hughes’s baby for nearly 18 months; and
a more thankless job no man ever had, 10
be an Acting-Premier under any ciicum-
stances is unsatisfactory enough. But when
the Premier is Hughes the position is moio
unsatisfactory than anybody, perhaps, but
Watt quite realises, lie was Acting-I remier
only in name. Nobody ever could real >
be Acting Prime Minister while Hughes was
Prime Minister. Nobody but Hughes could
be Hughes—which is partly a high compli-
ment and partly the other thing. And while
Watt couldn’t be Hughes, he couldn t, as
nominal Acting Prime Minister, hdhimself.
Those, therefore, who )udge Watt s ability
on his performance _ during the past ib
months do him an injustice.
The first thing that happened when the
X. 8. Wales legislature opened for the
people’s business was that John Storey
talked at Holman for five hours. The United
States Constitution is solid on one point—
that no Minister shall be a member of
either House. He may be almost anything
else, but he must not be a member. On
that basis Holman would have been at Ins
office attending to public affairs, and Storey
would have been bellowing to private mem-
bers and empty air. The Yanks believe that
vou mustn't discourse to the man at the
wheel, and there is all the wdsdom of Solo-
mon in the idea. One result is that U.*_.
Ministers are rarely mere talkers. A man
who must bellow or burst avoids a portfolio.
There was nothing for Justice Pring to do
in the matter of the Georgeson wheat con-
tract but to report that the’N.S.W. Govern-
ment did the right thing in the wrong way.
There was no evidence whatever that Gra-
hame, the Minister directly concerned, had
benefited bv the contract —he or any of his
officers. The fact is that, like a good
many other people, Georgeson knew that
there was a lot of wheat that the W heat
Board would be very glad to get ridmf, and
he was told so and given the “office to get
busy. He got busy, arranged his sales and
then made the contract, and, knowing what
he did, lie wasn’t much concerned about its
terms; and, knowing what it did, the Wheat
Board wasn’t much concerned either about
Georgeson’s financial position. The most
astonishing thing, which shows how dis-
organised the Public Service has _ become,
was that a report from the States Tiade
Commissioner in Japan and thereabouts as
to the prospects of the wheat market in tne
East” didn’t reach the Department which was
interested in wheat until three weeks attei
its receipt. N. S. Wales is simply over-
run with Ministers; aud so that the politi-
cians may be kept in their jobs the depait-
mental heads, who are supposed to be trained
men and experts, have been robbed of initia-
tive.
“Aero”: The Defence Dept, proposes to
spend up to £500,000 on the establishment of
an air force, which will include*repair depots.
No mention is made of the manufacture of
aeroplanes. Yet if we can’t make our own
machines we can’t do any air-fighting worth
while. Depending on importations would mean
being' tied up for machines after a fort-
night's war. It is no good carrying a big
stock, because in war aerial fashions change
almost monthly, and more than half the
battle is to be able to better the ideas sug-
gested by captured ’buses. It isn’t that Aus-
tralia can’t make aeroplanes and aero-
engines. The country grows the right sort
of wood, for instance; whether it grows the
right sort of leaders we shall see when the
tariff comes on.
THE IMMOBILE WOOBCHOPPER.
“This Government stands as impregnable arid motionless as Gibraltar. We do our work without
exhibiting our mobility.” —Willie Watt (Aug. 15).
WILLIE WATT : “Drat the woman! Can't she see I'm busy?”
The Naval authorities have broken the
news, which The Bulletin broke 20 years
ago, that a fleet requires a harbor of its own
from which spies and enemies and busy-
bodies can be excluded—not -cramped lodg-
ings among crowds of* humans and ships
and ferry-boats. That is why the British
navy prefers places like Rosytli and Ports-
mouth and Scapa Flow to London. So the
Garden Island show is doomed, and the Ma
metropolis will be wronged once more. It
is quite like old times. The Commonwealth
hasn't inflicted unpardonable insult and in-
jury on Sydney for some weeks now.
All over N. S. Wales the house famine
still rages. Minister Hall orated on the sub-
ject the other day at Albury, where the Staffe
has a housing scheme on hand; but one
thing he didn't mention lest offence should
arise. In 1912, 3128 N.S.W. brickmakers,
with 7956 h.-p. of machinery to do the
heavy work, made 383.656,000 bricks
(122,652 per man). In 1917, 2384 men
with 10.981 h.-p. of machinery to help them
made 229,959,000 bricks (96.459 per man).
Each man had twice as much machinery to
work for him, yet the eternal go-slow cut
down his output nearly 25 per cent. Prices
went up, of course, for wages were higher,
there was mpre machinery to pay for and
keep in fuel, as well as a reduction of out-
put. All the same, 33 of the 202 brickworks
closed up because even at the higher prices
charged for bricks there was no profit in
them.
If the R. S. aud S. L. sticks to its point,
the German Lutheran schools in Australia
will be closed. The Vie. Government is
thus far the least sympathetic: in that State
every cold official reply to the League’s
appeal is a demand for “proofs,” whereas
the onus is plainly on the Government to
show that wholly German educational insti-
tutions are not injurious to the Australian
spirit. The idea of closing German clubs
(or schools) for parents, whilst German
schools for children are banding a future
generation of clubsters together, is an ob-
vious anomaly.
The “Australian” Federal Capital League,
presided over by a Sydney suburban alderman
and with a Sydney executive (barring the
member for tin' Canberra electorate), sent
a hair-raising telegram to welcome
Prime Minister Hughes. It said the press
was “wholeheartedly and consistently” shout-
ing for Canberra, which it isn't. And it
said that in the Canberra matter “for 20
years your Constitution lias been ignored.”
The Constitution only came in force 10 years
and eight months ago; but the Leaguers are
largely property agents and accustomed to
say wildly that the suburban allotment is
a gift at £2O a foot.
A farmer-correspondent of the Argus has
pointed the way to lower living-costs. lie
writes from Gippsland, and asks: ’‘Why
cannot some of our able-bodied young men
from some of the over-manned ranks of dis-
tribution in Melbourne come out to the
country and help us to produce more food?”
More food! Ordinarily, enough food of a
sort (though not always the right sort) is
produced in Australia to feed 10 millions
instead of five, with the result that half of
it has to be either wasted, because there is
no local market for it, or shipped at great
expense 10 or 12 thousand miles. Then,
chiefly because the money that ought to go
to the producer goes to pay foreign ship-
owners, etc., the farmer is mostly a .poor
devil who lives under conditions that a city
artisan would scoff at; and the poorer devil
whom the farmer hires has to live under
worse conditions still. Given two things
the ‘‘overmanned ranks of distribution” in
the cities might rush to the country: (1)
an increase in producers who are not
farmers; (2) a decrease in parasites. But
that means (1) High Protection and (2)
Co-operation; and the help which the ABGUS
is likely to give either of these things isn t
worth worrying about.
Burchell, M.H.ft. for Fremantle, got an
idea of what they think of Australian
workers abroad just before he left Britain.
The manager of a big Clyde shipbuilding
yard told him that his five leading gangs of
riveters were all made up of Australians.
They had been munition-workers and had
gone shipbuilding when the armistice put
them out of a job. They are coming back
presently to afford their own country a
chance of passing a high tariff and giving
them something to do.
It looks as if it is going to be a tight witli
gloves off between the lodges of Victoria, led
by the A.N.A., and the B.M.A. The Wasley
award gave the doctors practically all they
asked, but they then raised the limitation-ol'-
medical-iustitutes issue. The reply is a new
campaign against Sawbones for. among other
things, the “taxation” of medical charges.
It is proposed to tack to the Health Bill
a nasty amendment providing for the appoint-
ment of an officer who will overhaul doc-
tors’ bills just as the taxing-master over-
hauls those of lawyers.
In Victoria the “National” Federation is
making a desperate struggle to preserve the
two party machines, and is now imploring
the Farmers' Union to “have a heart.”
Senator Bill Plain, cx-Laborite and president
of the Federation, has been making overtures
to the V.F.U.; and the Union, peeving glass-
ilv over its whiskers, has brutally decided
to kick the Federation out of its way. The
“National” plan was that the two concerns
should divide up the electorates into two nice
parcels, the V.F.U. to contest one lot and
the National Federation the other. The
electors were to be pawns in the game.
S. Australia never got the habit of think-
ing that when a man is old lie should loaf as
a matter of course; and it points to this and
that patriarch who still-goes to business. In
this way it salves its conscience for its
scurvy treatment of its ancient public ser-
vants. Even its judges are not provided
with pensions; wherefore, naturally, there
is no age-limit, and men hang on, as Chief
Justice Way did, years after they should re-
tire. The other day. when the Fourth
Judge Bill was being debated in the Coun-
cil. some iconoclast suggested that there
should be an age limit—7o. “Heavens, no!”
exclaimed almost the whole House. “You
couldn’t get men to accept the job on those
terms.” So S. Aus. is still going to work
its judges till they are too deaf to hear evi-
dence and argument, too slow to grasp the
points, too unsure of themselves to come to
a quick decision. And because litigants feel
that in such cases judgments can’t be
trusted, appeals become more frequent and
more money is wasted than the State saves
by neglecting to pay pensions.
The Victorian Government, it was men-
tioned in the House, has been warned not
to patronise the Commonwealth’s ships.
There aren’t enough of them to carry all its
goods, so it must do some business with
the combine. And if it doesn’t give all its
business to that haughty institution—-if it
ships even a packet of tacks by Common-
wealth or other outside ships—all the rebate
or discount due to it by the lofty institution
will be forfeited. Australia will have to
make up its mind which it is to be—all or
nothing. At present it is simply drifting
into a course: and nothing could be less
satisfactory than that.
One. of the little-comprohended jests of
“trade” is the rate of exchange. When one
country gets heavily in debt to another, as
Britain has to the United States, by import-
ing more than it can at once pay for, the
value of the debtor country’s coin drops. It
is useless to ask why this is so. It simply
is so—like death and drought and people
who make interminable speeches. So now
when a Yankee sends an Englishman or an
Australian a bill for 41,900 dollars, goods
supplied, the Englishman (or Australian)
has to send 10,000 sovereigns whereas he
used to send 8610 sovereigns. There is no
increase in nominal prices; it is just ex-
change. Imported kerosene has gone up,
not wholly because kerosene has gone up,
but because the coin we pay with has gone
down. It was explained to the Prices Com-
mission at Adelaide the other day that the
cost of bringing the oil here by other people's
ships had risen from lid. a case to 4s. 3d.,
and that there was another rise of about Is.
in the £ because the other people chose to
scoff at our money. Wars and blockades and
high freights and high exchange rates would
be as good as a high tariff to assist, local
industry if we knew that, like the tariff,
they were permanent. But they are casual,
fluctuating and outside our control, so no
one starts new industries on the strength of
them.
WELCOME, WILLIE!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Hughes is expected hack on the 28th. San-
guine people cherish the idea that lie has something
good up his sleeve.... Mr. Hughes himself declares
that he will deal with the Bolsheviks and the pro-
fiteers.” —Age.
We bend beneath a load of debt;
A ghastly drought is in the air.
Hut though there be more troubles yet,
No citizen need now despair.
Situate shoulders all, and gladly smile,
For Fate has sent her blackest guile,
And quick to furnish all we lack
Bill Hughes is back!
Five million lovers gaze upon our Lohengrin beside
the Swan!
He’ll dump our debts, a heavy load;
He'll smash industrial pirate bands,
And tear the lacerating goad
From wicked profiteering hands;
The Bolshevik with rigor he
Will chase beyond the raging sea.
With mighty cheers the welkin crack,
For Hughes is back,
And bearing for all men to see a burden matked
“Indemnity.”
Now rain will fall and rivers rise,
The sheep will smother in their wool;
All parties will economise,
And every pocket will be full.
The cabbages will jump for joy,
The onion greater speed employ,
And not a striker will appear,
Now Hughes is here.
The conqueror of the subtle Jap will guard our
country from mishap.
The very skies smile down on us;
The birdies sing a blither stave;
The lambkins frisk, and emulous
The tails of happy cattle wave.
“All cry and little wool!” Excuse
Not so, sir, with our splendid Ewes.
The little mascot good and gay
Comes home to-day,
Each sleeve, as wisest men aver, a teeming cor-
nucopia.
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


DIRECT ACTION.
AUSTRALIA: “Who was that shrieking?”
THE DIRECT ACTIONER: “Freedom, curse her!"


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
Registered
SHAG
Brand.
Producers of Lead in the following forms -
Refined Lead, Corroding Lead, Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated),
Super-refined Lead, Chemical Lead.
Also of— »
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated), Spelter,
and the following Alloys and Metallic Products
\ntimonial Lead, Linotype Metal, Litharge (Industrial and Assay),
Bearing Metals, Leaded Zinc Pigments, Blue' Powder.
Purchasers on a Specially* Favorable Tariff of Silicious Silver-Lead Ores, Slags, etc.
containing Silver and Lead. Lead Drosses. Zinc Drosses.
HEAD OPPICE: COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE—
H. L. SHACIvELL. Secretary.
LONDON OFFICE: PINNERS HALL, AUSTIN FRIARS, E.C. 2
A. .7. SMTTH. London Secretary.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY—
R. N. KIRK (Agent).
ADELAIDE OFFICE: 62 BROOKMAN’S BUILDING, ADELAIDE—
A W. LEWIS (Agent).
SMELTING WORKS. PORT PIRIE, S.A.
COKE WORKS. BELLAMBI. N.S.W.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobel
Samaonitt
Gelatine Gynamue
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
QUEENSLAND
MOST RESOURCEFUL OF
THE AUSTRALIAN STATES
Visitors to Sydney and residents of hew South Wales
when seeking information about the Great Northern State, whether
from a tourist, land settlement, scientific or investment point of view,
should first enquire at the Sydney Branch of the
Queensland Govt. Intelligence & Tourist Bureau.
Full Information and Descriptive Literature supplied FREE.
ADDRESS: 279 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. SB.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Broken Hill Prop., Ltd.—The directors
Son-- tle S ru ss profits for the year were
but by another reckoning it is
£1(2.566 more, as follows:
P r o fit ? ‘f 8 P er directors’ statement .. £679,957
Added to Reserve Fund .. 135,000
Payments made :
Commission and charges on debentures 507
.New share issue expenses .. .. 5,100
Underwriting share issue !! .. 31,899
Total . . £852,523
Altogether £65,180 of pront was written
off during the 12 months, made up of
the last three items (“payments made”)
and £27,614 for depreciation, The divi-
dends for the year were £302,634, ns against
£236,202 for the previous 12 months and
£177,1.>1 for 1917. Great changes have,
however, been made in the capital Recount
during the past few years. As the mine
at Broken Hill showed signs that it could
not last for ever (the co. is now 34 years
old), and as the co. had a wonderful hill
of iron ore, originally taken up for flux,
a few miles back from Spencer’s Gulf, the
directors, encouraged by general-manager
Delprat. decided on iron and steel manu-
facture at Newcastle. This has cost a heap
of money : at May 31 tlie iron and steel
plant, with land and buildings, stood in
the books at £3.365,000, just over hiilf-a-
million net having been added in (lie past
12 months. In addition, of course, the busi-
ness takes a good deal of financing, for
stocks, manufactured and in process of
manufacture, have to be carried. To secure
the necessary capital the co. has issued
shares and debentures and sold the smelters
and refinery at Pt. Pirie. During the past
year £1,500.000 of undivided profits, (re-
tained in the business, were capitalised.
Incidentally, Federal income-tax is not
payable as to £900,000 of this capitalisation,
the profit having been made prior to July
1. 1914; but shareholders are liable to
pay on 54 p.c. of the other £600,000 at their
individual rate of tax. subject to a rebate
of 2s. 6d. in the £ on 29 p.c. and of Is. 104 d.
on the other 25 p.c., those amounts having
been already paid by the co. The total
share capital is now £2,100,000. plus
£864.000 of premiums on iron and steel
issues; and of • £1.000,000 6 p.c. debentures
issued £151,400 had been redeemed as at
May 31.
The accounts are somewhat confusing as
regards the debenture redemptions. A
sinking fund is provided for, and £53.000
was last year charged against profit and
loss; but as this amount was not written
off assets, fi '.corresponding item is brought
into revenue. This shows the sources of
revenue and the outgoings of this now. vast
concern for the 12 months:—
Sales of products and stocks on
hand . . .. £3,481,983
Interest • ■ ■ • • • 132,8 Li
Transfer fees, etc. . . .. 401
Total earnings .. .. £3,015,227
Wages, salaries and expenses-—-
Mining and prospecting ~ £159,087
Concentration . . • . 35,711
Zinc Separation . . . . 96,362
Sulphuric Acid .. .. 22.80.>
Iron and Steel . . . . 1,916,742
Power, assaying-, etc. . . 24,843
Fuel, fluxes, timber, freight, etc. 215,482
Income-tax . . . ■ • • 178,242
Debenture interest . . .. 49,679
Directors’ fees . . •> • • 5,000
Sundries (Head Office,/royalty,
etc.) .. ■: •• 58,751
Total outgoings .. ..£2,762,704
Profits as per first table .. £852,523
One certainly can’t complain of the direc-
tors’ fees. The £5OOO lias to satisfy both
the Australian and London Boards.
It will he observed that slightly over
one-half of the revenue from all sources,
including the silver-lead-zinc mine, are
absorbed in the wages, salaries and expenses
of the iron and steel branch ; and to that
total of £1,910.742 must presumably be
added a proportion of the amount spent on
fuel freight, etc. Thus if can be safely said
that upwards of £2.000.000 was distributed
in wages in Australia during the 12 months
as a direct result of the enterprise of the
B H Prop, in establishing these work's. But
that" is only a part of the new wages sheets
opened for Australians. As before men-
tioned over £500.000 was in the co.’s last
year spent in additions to the works,
and very little of tins went out of the
country. In addition, new industries are
springing up around the mills. Ihe woiks
of the Austral Nail Co. for the manufacture
of fencing and other wire will be completed
within a month or so ; a month or two lat« j i
Lysaght’s works for the production ot plain
and galvanised iron and black steel sheets
will be ready ; and general-manager Delprat
is now in foreign countries inquiring into
the manufacture of tin plates. 1 urther,
though the works were not equipped for
the purpose, the co. was able to roil plates,
and thus enable the Commonwealth to pro-
ceed with the building of steel ships when
it was impossible to get material from
England or America; and at a hundred
foundries and other works all over Australia
operations were made possible of mainten-
ance and extension which otherwise would
have had to close down and sack hands.
These Newcastle works thus probably pro-
vided as much employment indirectly as
they did directly.
The year's profit looks handsome and was
handsome, thanks to the accidental Protec-
tion afforded by the war; but it was not
all true profit. The mine output was
142,488 tons, and that ore is gone for
ever; and the 211.438 tons of old and new
tailings treated for zinc won’t grow again.
AYliat revenue was drawn from these fast
drying-up sources and what from the
expanding iron and steel industry it is
impossible to say. Nor is there any infor-
mation available as to the ore reserves. All
that can be said is that exploration for new
bodies has not given much, if any, success,
and that, as ore lias to be chased, and costs
increase, more and more dependence will
have to be put upon iron and steel. And
even assuming that the raw material can
compete against the foreign pig and bar and
sheet, tlie demand will be largely governed
by tlie consumption in industries which de-
pend upon adequate Protection.
Wincii combe, Carson, Ltd. (Sydney),
pastoral property and products salesmen
(the eo. started with a deficit of £31.729.
representing goodwill less reserves trans-
ferred from the old co.):—
Towards
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
1911. . £20,214 6 p.c. - £ 11,212 £9,002 £22,727
1912.. 17,893 6 ~ ~ 12,345 3,548 17,179
1918.. 17,834 6 ~ ~ 12,345 5,489 11,690
1914.. 21,100 6 ~ ~ 12,345 8,755 2,935
1915.. 13,819 6 ~ ~ 12,345 1,474 1,401
Reserves.
1916.. 21,811 7 ~ „ 14,403 7,408 5,947
1917.. 22,600 7 ~ ~ 14,403 8,197 14,144
1918.. 25,108 7 ~ „ 14,403 10,705 24,909
1919.. 26,216 7 ~ ~ 14,403 11,813 30,722
The record profits shown , for the past year
are not surprising in view of the very
favorable conditions tlie agency cos. have
had under British Government purchase
schemes. But there is nothing very obese
about the disclosed figures; the £2(5,216
profits for the term represent 124 p.c. on
paid capitals No concern should, of course,
expect better than that for handling other
people’s produce; yet the original purchasers
of Winchcombe-Carson shares were en-
couraged to expect better. Net profits for
the last five years of the old business were
stated to have averaged £20,774 per annum,
and that was on £lOO,OOO less capital than
the present co. possesses. Among other
things the new capital enabled the concern
to establish itself in Brisbane. But though
sales have expanded from just over two
millions in 1911 to almost twice that much
for the past year, net profits for tlie nine
years have averaged £34 less per annum
than formerly. Shareholders have, however,
nothing much to complain about, seeing that
they tire getting 7 p.c. divs.. while recent
improved profits have made substantial
additions to reserves.
When the public co. was floated goodwill
was valued at £72.950. but all the new con-
cern paid was £41,983 less £10,253 of re-
serves brought over from the old proprietary.
To a great extent the value of the goodwill
was the value of the management taken over.
From that point of view the co. had had
luck ; for death laid a heavy hand on the co.
During the first seven years it lost two
managing-directors, F. E. Winchcombe and
E. J. Turton, and also directors John
AlcAlaster, Wm. Willcox and A. S. Barton.
Duncan Carson is the only member of the
original Board still on deck. Possibly his
team are quite as good business-getters
as previous Boards, and the management
may be as capable as it ever was, and influ-
ences beyond its control may have cut at
the earnings. Still, as unquestionably some
of the goodwill which the eo. paid for was
lost when the old managers were lost, the
directors are doing the proper thing by
writing down the goodwill item. From the
profits of the past two years £11,983 has
been utilised to reduce the book-value of
this hypothetical asset to £30,000. But they
have done more than that: by restricting the
dividend distributions, since 1910 general
reserves have been built up by £48,590, with
the result that there are now tangible assets
with a book-value of £36.722 in excess of
paid capital.
Owing to war difficulties several items in
the balauee-slieet have expanded considerably
since 1914 :r—
-1914. 1918. 1919.
Liabilities ..£106,227 £261,907 £387,439
Freeholds .. 142,784 159,215 160,814
Advances, etc. . . 145,095 292,203 392,989
Investments .. 12,341 23,696 31,446
Consignments . . 1,141 1,151 1,753
Plant, etc. . . 13,860 23,506 50,115
To finance its clients the co. lias itself had
to go heavily into debt, ana besides owing
£209,694 to sundry creditors it is leaning
on the bank for £177,745. With a return to
normal conditions both the amounts owing
and owed will shrink. With shipping avail-
able many of the storage and insurance
charges which have had to be met during the
past couple of years will also disappear,
while it is certain that with record prices
maintained commission earnings will be very
sweet. So the future should be all right;
provided the co. experiences a run- of favor-
able seasons.
Sargents, Ltd., caterers, etc., of Sydney
and Aielbourne, who started with a deficit of
£46,235, representing . goodwill (£45,000)
and preliminary expenses:—
Towards
Reduction
Profits. Dividends. of Deficit. Deficit.
June, 1911.. £7,609 10 p.c. = £4500 £3169 £29,533
Dec., 1911.. 5,520 10 4500 1020 2s, jl-i
June, 1912.. 7,159 10 .. ~ 4600 2559 25,954
Dec., 1912.. 9,308 10 ~ ~ 4700 4008 21,340
June, 1913.. 9,027 10 ~ 4850 4177 17,169
Dec., 1913.. 9,412 10 .. .. 5000 4412 12,757
June, 1914. . 10,529 10 ~ ~ 5000 5529 7,228
Doc., 1914.. 11,453 10 „ ~ 5000 6153 775
To Re- 11c
serves, serves.
June, 1915.. 8,680 10 ~ ~ 5208 :’>472 2,697
Dec., 1916.. 8,454 10' ~ ~ 5312 8J42 5,839
.Tune, 1916.. 9,524 10 ~ ~ 5812 4212 10,051
Dec., 1910.. 10,140 10 .. 5312 4828 14.879
June, 1917.. 8.T53 10 ~ ~ 5312 2846 1 7.725
Dec.. 1917.. 6,057 10 ~ 5812 745 1«.470
Juno, 1918.. 9,734 10 ~ ~ 5312 4422 22,892
Dec., 1918.. 5,396 10 „ ~ 5312 584 22,976
June, 1919.. 2,975 10 ~ ~ 6312 - 20,639
For the first time in its career Sargents’
profits have been insufficient to meet the 10
p.c. div. Remembering how ’flu demoralised
trade in Sydney for many weeks. I lie £7S,SOS
of gross profit for the term, compared with
the record £89,046 for the previous half, was
excellent. But though gross profits were
only £13,148 less, the management could get
working exes, down by no more than £5421.
Six months ago a taxation reserve of £7700
showed in the balance-sheet for the first
time, but how much of that amount, which
still remains intact, represented contribu-
tions from that term’s profits was not ascer-
tainable. Further, from the disclosed profits
for that term £5OOO was also appropriated
for taxation, and since this amount has dis-
appeared altogether it has been clipped from
the figures in the table. It is thus almost
certain that for the latter half of 1918 the
co. made more than the £5396 shown in the
table. Whether any cut for taxation has
come out of the current half’s earnings is
uncertain. For the purposes of the table the
£7700 still standing to the credit of the fund
has not been included in the reserves shown
above.
It is now just 10 years since the eo. pub-
lished its first report, and the next com-
parison shows how remarkably well it lias
developed -
1909. 1919.
Capital ..£BO,OOO £114,946
Liabilities . . . . 12,291 29,825
Freeholds .. .. 7.100 55,000
Leaseholds .. .. 12,550 20,060
Plant, etc 23,75.8 57.991
Stock • .. .. 2,610 20,828
Cash, sundry debtors
and investments .. 6,903 24,543
Since it began the co. has thus got in
£84.940 of additional capital and increased
its liabilities by £17.584 —£5,2.480 -altogether.
Aleantime the book-value of property in-
terests alone has expanded by £55,410, while
£84,233 more has been put into plant, and
more or less liquid assets have grown by
£35,858." The net improvement over the 10
years as shown by book-values has thus been
£73,021 after an unbroken run of 10 p.c.
divs. In other words, original shareholders
have already had an amount equal to their
capital returned in divs., while after making
the current distribution there remains almost
255. of net tangible assets to represent each
£1 of share capital. Ten years ago the co.
had £45,000 of its capital represented by
goodwill, but the item has now entirely dis-
appeared from the balance-sheet and been re-
placed by something much more substantial.
Though the future may not be quite so pros-
perous as the past, owing to continually-
increasing costs and the difficulties of passing
them on. prospects are good. The business
is still growing, and during the past half the
eo. opened up in the Burlington, the exten-
sive cafe in which the defunct Hart’s, Ltd.,
had a disastrous run. During the 10 years
the Sydney interests have expanded from
two to five cafes, and from 13 to 33 tea-
rooms, while in Melbourne there are four
more branches to cater for the light-luncher.
Everything, however, depends on • a con-
tinuance of good management and the fickle
public’s favor; and in both respects the eo.
iias been particularly fortunate in the past.
From Gerald R. Campbell, hon sec.,
A. ALP. Refund Petition Committee. The
Bulletin has received a long reply to the
“Wild Cat” par (B. 21/8/TO) concerning
war-risk premiums. Here is the only por-
tion which matters—
In fixing premium-rates for war-risk life assur-
ance, consideration must be given not only to the
extra death-rate, but also to the interest rate (due
to the war) as well. The expense rate would be
another factor, but it is not material in the present
case. Now, whilst the war has increased the death
rate to the disadvantage' of the Society, it has on
the other hand increased considerably the interest
rate to the advantage of the Society (some time
ago you pointed out that advantage amounted to
£138,000 in 1017), with the result that the gain
from increased interest (due to the war) already
amounts, it would appear, to about two-thirds of
the total war claims ( £65(1,000) under the policies
of those soldiers, etc., who have had to pay war-
risk premiums, and will in a couple of years or so
wipe them out altogether, and, ere many years have
passed, wipe out also the whole of the much larger
war losses incurred under policies of soldiers, etc.,
who have not had to pay these war-risk premiums
owing to their having insured their lives before the
outbreak of war it may have been the day before.
And the losses of this class have, in part, been borne
by the soldier-class which has had to pay war-risk
premiums, lie hear a great, deal of the losses from
extra deaths due to the war, but very little of the
gain from extra interest —also due to the war. Both
must be taken into account if a fair balance is to
be struck, and if this is done the war-risk premiums
will be refunded in (hie course as having been found
unnecessary.
Then you say that “experience showed that nothing
under about 15 p.c. would cover losses.’’ Here is
the A.M.l’. experience. £4,740,000 was insured
under war-risk policies issued during the war, of
which about £8,000,000 was . subject to £5 p.c.
extra war-risk premiums, and the balance to the
£7l p.c. extra premium during the last 18 months
Of the war: the total war claims were £050,000,
but as against this the extra war-risk 'premiums with
interest amount to over £400,000. Accordingly, in-
stead of a 15 p.c. extra premium being necessary,
something not much over 0 p.c. would have cleared
Ihe war-risk of this class taken by itself under Aus-
tralasian conditions according to A.M.l’. experience.
A Government insurance scheme for soldiers, as
you contend, would no doubt have • solved the ques-
tion. But who would have paid for it? The tax-
payers. And who are the taxpayers? To a;very large
extent the policy-holders of the various life assurance
societies. Surely it is better for them to pay through
their societies in the way now proposed out of future
surpluses rather than through a new Government
department.
Then you appear to doubt whether the soldier
policy-holder, who lias paid no extra war-risk pre-
mium, and the civilian policy-holder, who was equally
exempt, will relish their future bonuses being cut
into to relieve the soldier who lias had to pay such
extra war-risk premiums. That the tirst-named soldier
class (about 40,000) will murmur for a moment at
bearing their share of the war-risk premiums which
their 18,000 less fortunate mates have had to pay
is simply unthinkable, and the civilian policy-holders
will be no less willing once they understand the true
position.
All of which may be quite true, but it
does not break down The Bt lleti.n s aigu-
ment that whether the' premiums are re-
turned or not. Injustice is being done to
sornobody- Refund the premiums and the
hundreds of Diggers on the honor-rolls who
turned away from the Society because they
could not' afford t|ie extra premiums that
were demanded will not have had a fair
deal. And why should the, 40.0uj0-odd,
policy-holders who went to the war be
penalised to pay the extra premiums collec-
ted from men who had previously neglected
or declined to insure and who afterwards
asked the Society to insure them specifically
against Wilhelm’s ironmongery V Certainly
the soldier should never have had to pay
such heavy premiums ; but that is the fault
of the Government—not of the A.M.P.
Other mutual offices which passed the busi-
ness by while the big concern was doing its
duty on the most favorable basis possible,
marvelled at the A.M.P. risk's. Yet their
policy-holders are not to be asked to
jeopardise future bonuses to help lift the
"load the A.ALP. acquired. Still, if policy-
holders consider the refund a fair thing,
the rest will be easy.
* * * *
A year before war broke out, the Afaori-
land Parliament consented to the Rank
of New Zealand increasing its capital, and
among other things it was arranged that
the Board should call up £3 os. Sd. on
150.000 shares “within seven years, or
sooner,” if it considered earlier calling advis-
able. Eighteen months ago the directors
set out to got in this additional capital, but
the Finance Minister refused permission
until all war loans had been raised. How-
ever, permission has now been obtained to


Wolfram, Scheelite
and Molybdenite.
PRICES AT PRODUCING CENTRES:
MOLYBDENITE:
85 per cent, or over, 100/- for each
unit MOS 2.
WOLFRAM AND SCHEELITE.
65 per cent, or over, 52/6 for each
unit WO3.
Enquiries Invited relative to
LOWER GRADES of the above
Minerals.
DALGETY § CO. LTD.,
Commonwealth Government Agents.
THE MUTUAL LIFE
and CITIZENS’
ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
HAS AN
EMPLOYERS’
INDEMNITY POLICY
that meets exactly your requirements.
Under Employers' Liability and Workmen’s
Compensation Aots.
The advantage of having battery charging current
on tap in the home garage is now within the reach
of every motorist. The G.E. Mercury Arc Battery
Charger makes any ordinary lighting circuit a source
of energy for starting, lighting, and ignition bat-
teries. its cost is a mere trifle compared with the
convenience and economy of home charging. An
overnight boosting charge every few weeks will not
only increase the efficiency of a battery, but will
also lengthen the life of the plates. You should
get one of these outfits. Australian General Electric
Company, Wentworth Avenue, Sydney; and corner of
Queen and Little Collins Streets, Melbourne. —Advt.
* * * *
Aluminoferric is necessary where cattle turn up
the mud in the drinking water. A little distributed
over the water will quickly precipitate all impuri-
ties, thus clarifying and purifying the water for your
stock. Use it in your reservoirs, your wells and
your house tanks. If your storekeeper cannot sup-
ply you send direct to *us for free leaflets, particulars
and prices. William Adams & Co. Ltd., Sydney.
Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth. —Advt. [3
* * #■ *
Modern methods of metal concentration require
fine and efficient grinding devices, and the tube mill
is becoming more widely used every day. Present
conditions prohibit the importation of machinery
, °m abroad, so that we have to fall back on our
home manufactures. The Austral Otis Engineering
Co. of Melbourne manufacture tube mills of any size,
as well as grinding machines of every description.
hey are also makers of the famous Hardinge Conical
Mills, which have made a name for themselves in
America.—Advt. r ,
• p l ° nee r Wood Pipe, tlie most satisfacto y pipe to
instal. 1 Ins letter conies from the Anchor Tin
a-' 16 ’ dated June 23, 1914: “Bear
ioto i . ' VOO(i ,P‘P e . s supplied by you i n May.
laid, have proved satisfactory in every way. They
vveie easily handled, took little labor or skill to lav,
developed no leaks, and show no sign of deteriora-
tion. Yours faithfully (Sgd.) James B. Lewis,
General Manager.” Send for illustrated catalogue,
the Aiist alian Wood Pipe Company, Ltd. (H. 0.),
Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W. P.O. Add.:
Box lo 7() G.P.0., Sydney.—Advt.
Inventors. Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.—Advt.
viw^? lia £- *\ ateT Jts from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, finks Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Pinr 6 ’ i en - 5030. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723.— Advt.
an ? asSi y, re Q ll isites can be procured at
lowest lates from L-el ton, Grimwade and Co. Sample
and nib ““I dlvld ?rs. balances, crucibles, furnaces,
?, f. modern scientific appliances kept in stock
"r- supplied for fitting laboratories. lleaii
olhee . Minders Lane, Melbourne. —Advt.
* * * %
‘ Robey” Patent Uniflovv Steam-engines, supplied in
“K’’ a ?S f y 300 t 0 1000 iudicated bp. The
oriment in tn^! ne represents the latest devel-
opment in the construction of high-class steam
engines. Highly efficient and economical in steam
Suit f abl ° fo r hi & h steam Pressures and
all tcmpeiatuies of superheat. Specially suitable
foi small floor space. Catalogues and complete in-
to; ination from sole representatives, Arthur Lcplas-
tner & Co., Head Office, Sj’dney.— Advt.
IDEAS’.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
Com,lson & Co.. 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty vears’ practice Write
ns for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt. P ’ "rite
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun's
Crushers, Funiaees. Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rfd 9fi- a l r? r wnt i for particulars. 11. B. Selby &Co
6 °« Ge °rge Street (between Hunter and Bond
fetieetsL Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street, Melb.—Advt.
in <7'. Palnler ’ P-F- Fek Chem. Soc., etc..’consult-
n„ engineer valuing, organising, technical advice
,f nd selective floS
, ses ' Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 Pitt
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Loss of Profits
Insure in
Tkc 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital
Subscribed Capital
Paid-up Capital ..
Income (Cross) 1918
- £250,000
194,235
96,497
457,852
E* tab linked 1910.
AGENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
w. li. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
ILegal Notice.
gTATUTORY NOTICE TO NEXT OF KEY
RE EMMELINE JULIA HAYGARTH, late of
eionga, in the State of Queensland, deceased.
NOTICE is hereby given that all persons claiming
tttt x * n s xt of kln of the abovenamed EMMELINE
}^L n t Y( ; A] r ni ’ !? te ? f Yeronga, in tile State
of Queensland, deceased, who died on or about the
Eighteenth day of December, 1918, a.d., at Brisbane
'".‘f f sa j;' State are hereby required to forward
proof of their relationship to The Public Curator
Brisbane, on or before the Fifteenth day of October,
IJI9. And that after the expiration of the last-
mentioned date The Public Curator will nroceed to
distribute the assets of the said deceased amongst
the parties entitled thereto, having regard onlv to
the claims of which he shall then have had notice.
Dated this Thirteenth day of August, 1919.
R. J. S. BARNETT,
Official Solicitor to the Public Curator,
Treasury Buildings, Brisbane.
A. Victor Leggo & Co.
Melbourne -Sydney Brisbane.
Manufacturers Metallurgists Merchants.
Exporters and Importers.
Specialties: INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS, INDUSTRIAL MINERALS
ORES, METALS AND RAW MATERIALS.
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Other Goods.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
doVn-wl T 1 ~y pril Dext - The bank can
do with the half-million which will be raised,
? r ,“ e balance-sheet at March 31 showed
J* £ or every £1 of funds (including guar-
anteed stock) the management was holding
Jos. ot the public’s money.
* * * *
The Federal authorities have just
awakened to the idea that one of their most
erastic war-precaution regulations may not
have been observed. This is regulation 3,
which provides that no agreement for the
purchase of any mining business, or of any
share in a mining co., shall be entered into
q ,m-son “other than a natural-born
British subject.” Lately a Federal officer
has been doing the rounds of the offices of
•Sydney mining-secretaries, inspecting share-
registers and ascertaining otherwise whether
or no*- tins regulation has been observed, and
notitymg that it must not be treated as a
dead-letter in the future. It operates against
naturalised British subjects as well as the
subjects of allied countries. Asked specifi-
caily whether it would applv to the consuls
ot America, France and Belgium, should
they apply for shares in a mining co., the
answer was an emphatic “Yes ”
* * # ,
Moonta and A\ allaroo mines are still idle,
owing to Hughes's “solution of the metal
problem, and general-manager Lipson Han-
fuTTo 88 * seized the opportunity to go to
the U.B.A. to study the latest practice there.
In particular he wants to see what is being
c ? n f~; especially in Montana—in the matter
of fuel saving.
* * * *
The Speck’s hopes of having its Blythe
River iron-ore deposits worked have been
shattered by the report of the three experts
appointed by the Commonwealth Govern-
ment when it took an option over the pro-
perty. A. A. Boyd, C. G. Gibson and Gerald
loung were the men asked to put the rule
over the deposits, and after three months’
sampling and assaying they have come to
the _ conclusion that there are only nine
million tons, a big shrinkage from the 24-1
millions of selected ore which English expert
, • H. Darby talked of when reporting to.
Y\ m. Jamieson and Tolhurst. And perhaps
las Geologist Twelvetrees will be heard in
explanation of how his irreducible minimum
ot 1 f million tons has faded away. But
this evaporation is not the worst that has
happened; for besides remarking that the
quantity of good ore is “too small to be
considered of any economic importance,” the
latest investigators have decided that the bulk
01 the deposit is “far too siliceous to be
considered as an iron ore at the present
day. ho John Higgins, the metallurgical
adviser who got a knighthood for liis ser-
vices in aiding the Hughes Ministry to
solve the metal problem, has recommended
that the option be passed by. If Boyd’s
party is right in its conclusions, then all
along Blythe River has been a delusion, and
the Commonwealth has been considerably
poorer off in its iron resources than was
thought. As for shareholders in the Blythe
River Iron Mines, Ltd., their hopes of seeing
any of their money back look very wilted.
•, m °T e ? p P a / entl y> is the “Sir John
|fe g s f Institute for the “promotion of the
study of technology ot iron ores and metallic
"'on and steel in all forms,” which was to
have been established with the £lO,OOO com
£ ICI * llg f n ‘ S to get for introducing
the Commonwealth to the good thing.
New Baker’s Creek (N.S.W.) gets good
RnT > bU n n< ? enoUB ' h of it- The original
Bakci s Creek, started by Smith, of Hill-
TV T JV" of “Scorpion”
Aeale and V. \Y. Strange, 0 f Adelaide
Panned out £250,000 without a break from
a reet averaging eight inches. Really, it was
whV. e n inrllcat<u ‘',’ P ree d, and the patches
T IC J JT dow being broken come from
shoots of the same type. The bump came
TcT I] , tt e co - when the slopes
over No. 18 level ran poor. They should
not have done so, seeing that good stone
was underfoot at No. 16, but with rich
T'iioorT six months’ work left a debit
ot ±lBB9 on working account. The Board-
room explanation is that more capital is
wn nted to reach places where payable shoots
ot gold are 'known to exist, but have vet
to be explored.” If that is so, the right
thing to do is for the Board to call up the
cash. Manager Williams is especially sweet
on the south enrichment in the Shaft reef
He wants this followed above No. 13
so as to pick up the rich stone got under-
foot at the intersection of the No, 3 and
the Shaft reefs. So there looks to be another
kick_ in the old mine if the necessary is
provided for exploratory work.
“The future prospects of the mine are
very encouraging,” manager John Allen tells
Gundagai Long Tunnel (N.S.W.) share-
holders. But he provides very few facts
and figures in support ; though if the out-
look is so bright he might have produced
a report which would contain a pellet or
two to confound the experts and bears who
Jew holes in the market some months ago.
He gives his record of development work,
but as to the values of the stone passed on
the way he merely remarks that it is “pay-
able,” which may mean anything. The
battery started crushing last December, and
1041 tons were put through for 105Soz. to
the beginning of April, since when the
drought has held up operations. However,
the £4119 gold won gave a working profit
of £1792, but management exes., etc., swal-
lowed all that and £l4O besides, thus swell-
ing the P. and L. debit to £8162. The
directors reckon they have 5000 to 6000
tons of ounce-ore available for treatment,
but whether it is broken or one end is
fast is not stated. With the battery running
two shifts and enough water, that should
give about six months’ crushing—not more.
Meantime John Allen is going ahead with
the "immediate erection’’ of his cyanide
plant; but what for? There are only 700
tons sands available “worth a returnable
value of. 4Mwts.,” but probably 50 p.c. is
Anyhow, the accumulation is so far
much too small for the expensive process to
give decent results. The present position of
Long Tunnel finances is that, apart from
the £5500 to be paid to vendors out of gold
won, the co. at the balance owed £l3lO,
while including stores and tools there was
only £llO7 in liquid assets. The mine and
battery will need to come to the rescue this
year, for of the nominal capital of £50,000
only £8592 remains uncalled.
* * * *
R. D. Hartwell of Sydney, is attending to
the details of three mining Interments.
The lodide group, western N. S. Wales,
which were heralded as second Broken Hills,
met with poor values as soon as the surface,
was properly scratched. But even then the
directors maintained that they could carry
on profitably if they had a free market
tor the sale of concentrates. As calls could
not be got in. the cos., which were limited
concerns, were placed in liquidation.
“Taihoa,” in reply to “Wild Cat’s” criti-
cism of the Big Reef, Gundagai tN.S.W )
prospectus (B. 14/8/19) :
lie supposed complexity of ore. Sulphides occur
as pyrites and arsenical pyrites, and both are found
at surface wherever quartz lias been exposed, over a
length of 3000 feet. This ore is identical with that
referred to in Bonwiek’s report, in which he says
that “the material at the bottom of No. 1 shaft
(92ft.) appears to be below surface oxidising
agencies.” His assumption of the complexity of
the ore is not in agreement with the opinion of
highly-qualified metallurgists, and loose theorising
on what changes may happen at depth ought not to
carry weight. Experience so far gained to nearly
100 ft., i.e., “below surface oxidising agencies,” points
to vertical continuation of the same class 6f ore. So
the good extraction and good values, which Tim
Bulletin says seem to be assured to 60ft. or 70ft.,
should continue below that depth.
Comparing Big Beef’s rich, easily-worked sul-
phides with Lancefield (W.A.) ore is unfair, because
the ore in the latter mine below 200 ft. was very
heavy arsenical sulphide, and because between 1899
and 1905 the 150,000 tons treated gave only 7.2odwt.
gold pei ton not much to spread on extraction
costs. However, the mine still works, and it and
the Ida H. constitute the principal gold producers on
the Mt. Margaret field.
Proposed Big Reef finance is built on the follow-
ing sound foundation: the proved pay-shoot is of
great length (550 ft.) and of considerable width;
every shaft has pay values from top to bottom;
12,000 tons ore worth £3 per ton are practically
in sight to 50ft. Buyers are thus giving £30,000
interest in return for £36,000 worth ore and five-
eighths of the best gold-mining proposition ever found
in N. S. Wales, as well as the right to spend £ll,OOO
in developing a further £lBO,OOO worth to 300 ft.
The reason why the 150 tons of 16dwt. stone was
left at the shaft is that the prospectors’ boiler burst
and long cartage to mill did not pay, the ore giving
only about odwt. free gold on plates (a 61-ton test
crushed by vendors in Gundagai proved this) and
arsenical concentrates were unsaleable 40 years ago.
Talking about the wise ones who visited the
mine. Phillips, for Dyason, spent six weeks on the
mine in the early stages and did much prospecting
along 550 ft. His report was favorable and contracts
were signed ; but the Bendigo amalgamation pre-
sented greater attractions. Also two Boulder mining
men have looked over Big Reef, and two Sydney
engineers have inspected and one has sampled. All
were favorably impressed; but it takes two to make
a bargain.
Now let the mill talk.
* * #• *
When Acting Prime Minister Watt
reached Perth the other day to meet the
little man who claimed to have “solved the
metal problem,” he was set upon by the
Westralian Mining Association and told
what an unholy mess the solution had made
of the State’s base-metal industry. A bat-
tery of grievances and supporting figures
were fired at Watt, who eventually con-
ceded he “thought the deputation had made
out a case, ’ but side-stepped with a promise
to confer with the Prime Minister, who was
responsible for putting an embargo on the
export of concentrates and giving the
T«? e^eis - e 4 s t el 'R States a monopoly.
\\ estralian mine-owners claim that the
charges have been prohibitive; being, they
6O to 100 p.c. more than in England.
One 50-ton parcel of tin ore compulsorily
sent from Greenbushes to N. S. Wales
smelters realised £2l per ton less, they say,
than would have been received had it gone
to England, even after allowing £6 per ton
freight from Fremantle. A shipment of
silver-lead ore from Onslow, containing 67
p.c. metallic lead and 20oz. silver per ton,
which would have gone to London, via
Singapore, had to be sent to Port Pirie. The
result was a loss to the producers, smelting
charges amounting to 42 p.c. of the value of
the ore. The case of the Whim Well copper-
mine is also quoted. To date it lias shipped
60,000 tons averaging 14 p.c., and has 90,000
tons of S p.c. stuff on the dumps. In an
appeal to the Prime Minister some time ago
the management of this show stated that
the difference in prices realised during 1916
in England and Australia on shipments of
11 p.c. ore was £44 per ton of metal. Under
ordinary conditions, however, treatment
charges in England are estimated at £l5 per
ton of metal less than at Ivembla, and
after allowing for all charges, including
realisation. the_ English return is reckoned
to be from £l5 to £26 per ton of copper
contents better than Kembla. Unless pro-
ducers are permitted to send their ore where
treatment costs will give a margin of profit,
mines now struggling to keep alive will soon
join those which have already given up.
* * *
x,,£fVw I ? oulder > Profit for last year was
against £253,026 in 1918, and
x;lJb,B<o was paid in divs. Mining and
treatment costs at 325. 6d.were up 3s. lOd.
compared with the previous year. Ore
.>^L e r' r es at 31 were estimated at
’7 tons, containing approximately
, ; 4,0i4. A\ ith costs and loss in residues
chipped off this means dividends amounting
to possibly ss. a share. Meantime output
and profits are gradually shrinking. Recent
boreholing north and south of the main
workings from the Ivanhoe and Horseshoe
revealed nothing of value, and the manage-
ment is at its wits’ end to know where else
to look for new makes of ore. There is
some talk of tiie co. acquiring the Persever-
ance, but judging from bores put at depth
from Moulder ground into that propertv
there is not much there.
* * Vr *
When Moline was at Cock’s Pioneer,
Eldorado (Vic.), his estimate was that costs
would approximate 9d. per cub. yard, and
his successor, Hugh Falconer, keeps close
to that figure. This is good, considering the
extra cost of mine supplies and of labor; but
he has been helped by getting a 20 p.c.’ big-
ger yardage through the pumps. AVhere the
gilt went off the gingerbread last half-year
was in the metal contents of the wash. Gold
fell to 7.876 d. per yard. This is a drop of
which counts up in a 460,000 cub. yard
output. Then the tin concentrates were less
so that the average grade of the ground
sluiced for six months was 11.793 d. per cub
yard, against 16.757 d. for the preceding
vl/.”-. st . lll > there was a nice little profit of
£66(4. An eighth div. of £5OOO was paid
during the term, and another for a similar
amount is to be handed out in September.
Tlr/w in Cock s has repaid to shareholders
£40X106 of an issued capital of £lOO,OOO A
< r | ortlon of this “capital” was paid-up
•s uff given to holders of scrip in Jack Dane's
J, co : f < l , . n top of th >s div. record is a sur-
J, u . s of l lquid assets aggregating £14,089.
1 his surplus would have been still larger if
whif.b ne mi! a i d i\ n r°V had s ? me of the ex Perience
ethof th ! n' > vien tr ekking on the
I i th or the old alluvial miner, who, it was
67 U p d e ofth alf " ye n r ’f had alread .V taken out:
07 p.c. of the wash from the 70ft. floor, and
Jot P dn toT-* ! 6 s ° ft i After all > he did
J ° b So cleanl y as is the rule in
the quartz mines; he left behind him values
which l Go P ek’s yt Y d - r? this * ave the Profit
Auloa -to? k , knocked out last half-year
ditions al 0C 5 S a f lf there will be better con-
’J J h % ftlce °, f the Paddock is get-
ung out of the worked ground and tlm
nearest old shaft is 1200 ya?ds up the guttef
the m 9oft m flom- 0 * whlsp . er we nt around that
done a lot nf h** * ? pper - Fa lconer has
the wfdth f H bonnS test the floor, but
e width of the run of wash at that denth
not 8 say that*} gl ' eat ' Else he would
eonstrnetion of "a lhe
fa* to V ‘on'^V’T 2o^-
Orton pitched his tent the othlr day All
in the gaiden was lovely, until somehedv
hfac’f stuff aS whieh° U i b ' t: !? S eye , ° n samples of
from tf UfSB*
n l l mini to, or how it was gathered up and
the' Stock Exch“ n e ge fr ffckbn*d°hM nofset
» sgyw
swept’badc to o £22 a s' a ? 0W - job ’ and Prices
o eSt f Slmpl y f rom pure funk
on tne part of the quitters. AVith Orton
I s ] ;r ? , A Sca, i boroi ?h. who went to have
to the concern sh °^t• for some of the chosen
perly voiced when he reaS MuShii? office
having run dry, a reconstruction is on foot
to r Srn 10 the IS oS g ° f the Treasury
xi 5i Uin tlle outfit over to a co. of 60 000
£1 shares, present holders getting 150 shares
for every one held in the Syndicate, with
the right to take up 100 contribs. This
will leave 10,000 shares in reserve. The
on reckons that 2s. per share from the
1.0,000 contribs. will complete the sampling,
have the area check-bored, and pay lease
costs.
(“Wild Cat” continued on page 26.)


THE DELIVERER.
“There were two classes of enemies of society— the Bolshevists and the profiteers. He spoke for those who had nothing to do with either, and said, ‘Damn them both.’ That was the message he gave. He was opposed both to the Bolshevists and profiteers,
and would fight them both relentlessly to the very end.” —Prime Minister Hughes on his way back.
“Like two that on a lonesome road
Do walk in fear and dread,
Because they know a frightful fiend
Doth close' behind them tread.”


J?7f/ Unanimous
ABBOTS LAGER,
THE DRINK OF GOOD FELLOWSHIP
73rpWpf from
Purpffd/fifopr On/y
r*
9
§\
gy
THE DEAF HEAR!
The Joy and Happiness
of perfect hearing are
only appreciated by
those who have lost it.
The
Mears Earphone
makes it yours. The
Latest Model 96-Tone
Mears Earphone
In the hollow of the
hand or attached to
ear with light head
band.
with its great range of
tone and power, can be regulated by a touch
of the finger to suit the hearing for every
occasion, and for all stages of deafness.
The MEARS EARPHONE catches and inten-
sifies even the least whisper, and enables the
deaf to hear lectures, sermons and plays clear-
ly and distinctly. Small, compact, and incon-
spicuous. The MEARS EARPHONE is
recommended by leading Aurists, and many
prominent Australian citizens have had the
Mears Earphone in daily use for Seven
Years, with continued satisfaction.
A Lengthy Guarantee with each Instrument
FREE TRIAL I
Call and test it, or write for booklet post free.
The Mears Earphone Co., Bernard’s Bldgs.,
Tel. 3916 City. 387 George Street, Sydney.
Hotel Sydney
The Spacious Dining
Hall is a Rendezvous
of Eminence for
LUNCHEONS
and
DINNERS.
ITEMS—
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA.
CHARHING ROOF GARDEN.
Management E. T. CHISESEMAN.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
September birthdays: G. D. Delprat. 63,
on Ist; J. A. Hogue ( Sydney 1, 73, on 2nd;
Prof. Anderson (Sydney Uni.), 61, and
Brig.-Gen. Bessell-Browne, 42. on 3rd ; Brig.-
Gen. Brand (Vic. Commandant). 46, on
4th; C. J. Dennis (“Sentimental Bloke”),
43, on 7th; A. B. Pidciingtou, 57, on 9th ;
Hugh Mclntosh, 43. oil 10th; 11. W. Potts
(Hawkesbury College), 04, on 12th;
“Birdie,” 54, on 13th; Geologist Dr. R.
Logan Jack, 74, on 16th; Brig.-Gen. E.
Tivey, 53. on 19th; Major-Gen. Charles
(“Plevna”) Ryan, 66, and H. E. Kater,
M.L.C. and C.S.R. (N.S.W.), 78, on 20th:
Canon Hey Sham (N.S.W.). 74, on 21st;
poet James Hebblethwaite (Tas.), 62, on
22nd: General Cyril White, 43, on 23rd;
Sam Hordern, 43, on 24tli; Prime Minister
Hughes, 55, and Gov. Galway (S.A.), 00,
on 25th ; J. H. Symoii, K.C. (5.A.).. 73.
and Chief Justice Murray (S.A.), 50, on
27th; Lieut.-Col. Bisdee, V.C. (Tas.), 50.
on 28th; Artist Rupert Bunny, 55. Donald
MacKinnon (late Director of Recruiting).
60. and Dr. Elkington (Q.), 48, on 29th.
Two of the late Fred McCubbin’s pictures,
sold in Melbourne recently, brought £3OO and
£260. For the first the artist received
160 and for the second about £4O a few vears
ago.
Dan Levy is the second Jew in success-
ion to be Speaker of the N. S. Walefe Leg.
Assembly. He was a barrister, like his
predecessor.< ,T. J. Cohen, but on his own
motion was disbarred arid added to the roll
of attorneys.
“Lombardy”: James de Rothschild lost
an eye through a golf-ball hitting his
monocle, and the papers mostly headed
the cable “Dangerous Golf,” or some-
thing equally futile. The interest is in
the man, who bears the reputation of being
the biggest figure in “high finance” in Europe
to-day. He added between three and four
million pounds sterling to the fortune left
him by Edmond de Rothschild, his father,
SPEAKER LEVY, of N.S.W. Assembly.
before he was 30; and during the war he
lias been one of the chief financial advisers
of the French Government. For preference
he lives at Carlton Gardens in London and
writes, plays cards for large stakes, and races.
He has published several books on the classic
French and English dramatists, and own
Roamer, which ran nowhere in the Derby the
other day. Tall, lean and ashen pale he
looks like the Frenchman he is; but he
dresses like an Englishman and talks the
languages of both countries indistinguishably
from a native.
“Jacky” Evans, ivho has held the not very
strenuous job of Speaker in the Speck’s
Assembly for a decade or so, has been re-
elected. There is no more astute politician
in Tasmania than “Jacky.” He has con-
trived for Heaven knows how many years to
represent the Huon in the Assembly, to
manage the Tasmanian office for Huddart
Parker, and to sit on the Hobart Marine
Board, most of the time as Master Warden.
Each of these interests is commonly regarded
as the natural enemy of the others—the
fruitgrowers are up against the shipping
cos. and the shipping cos. up against the
growers, and the Marine Board levies toll on
both. Occasionally someone gets up and
kicks, but after five minutes’ confidential
talk with “Jacky” he goes home and tells
the missus that there’s one man on their
side, anyhow. Evans was a sea-skipper
before entering politics.
J. R. G. Adams, the just-dead secretary
to the Board which runs Adelaide’s Museum,
Library and Art Gallery, had been among
books all his life. He was horn in Mel-
bourne in 1859, but, after Scotch College
and two or three years in Mullen’s, became
an assistant in the Public Library of Adel-
aide in 1879. and there he stayed, working
up to the top. He saw the united institu-
tions grow till at last he had to drop the
librarian’s work and give all his time as
secretary to the whole. Sowden, editor of
the Register, and chairman of the Board
in succession to late Chief Justice Way, is
Adams’s brother-in-law.
THE BOLSHEVIK BUTTINSKI.
“There are in this country sheep and goats.”
W. M. Hughes.
HUGHES : " And any goat that butts in here
is going to get the surprise of his life.”
Eighty this month. Henry Mildred, the
senior of Adelaide lawyers, admitted in
1862. He was born in the province when
it was only two years old, and was at St.
Peter’s before the college existed —when the
boys were taught in a room or two behind
old Trinity Church on North Terrace.
C. C. Kingston’s widow, dead in Adelaide
after a career for which eccentricity would
be a mild term —she ouce chased Speaker
Jenkin Coles off her Brighton land when he
came to pay a call of sympathy—has left
the comfortable sum of £30,000.
Molong (N.S.W.) lately lost an identity
of note, Mrs. Marion Leatham, who passed
out at 77. She was widow of Henry Vale
Leatham, who with his brother established
the Molong Express in 1876. FI. V. Lea-
tham died in 1879. and the widow, with six
children to support, shouldered the paper.
When old enough her son came into the busi-
ness, and for 40 years mother and son ran
it, and ran it; very well.
T. E. Fell, Fiji’s new Colonial Secretary,
has had 22 years’ experience in .Crown
colonies. He arrived at .Suva recently after
three years in the West Indies. Previously
the finances of the Gold Coast, Togoland and
other sultry African stations were in Fell’s
care. Shortly he should be due for a
governorship. He is the youngest of a
family of 14. a Cambridge man, and liberal
in his views. Incide v| tnllv, he cbonlrl
seme big scores on Suva’s excellent cricket
oval.
William Newton, -who passed on in
Hobart last week, was a fine sample of the
muscular Christian. In his youth he was
a keen cricketer, cyclist and swimmer, and
for the past 12 years one of Hobart’s most
enthusiastic bowlers. But always he found
time to act as hon. secretary to any move-
ment to give the lame dog a lift; and what-
ever he pushed he pushed hard. Taking up
press work over 25 years ago, he served
in various capacities for Launceston papers,
and then became manager for the Launces-
ton Examiner in Hobart. For 22 years
he held this post, a white man on the Inky
Way.
Dead in Adelaide, Arthur Cudmore (65),
of the big squatting family. With his bro-
ther D.H. he spent most of his time at
Avoca in the Wentworth (N.S.W.) country,
but he had holdings in Queensland too.
Donnelly Fisher, a well-known Sydney
solicitor, who went west last week in his
70th year, was a son of Thomas J. Fisher,
barrister, who married the eldest daughter
of William Charles Wentworth, “the Father
of the Constitution” of N. S. Wales.
After 25 years’ service as a private mem-
ber in Vic. Assembly, McGregor has secured
a salaried office. It has been decided to pay
him £240 a year, in addition to his member’s
£3OO, for serving as chairman of committees.
For 19 months he was an honorary in the
second Turner and first Peacock Govern-
ments. When there was a vacancy for a paid
Minister, Peacock, yielding to the cry for
economy, reduced the number of portfolios.
McGregor’s luck was out then ; for Irvine,
who came in after Peacock, appointed the
old complement, holding that it was time
enough to retrench when the reform pro-
gramme was adopted. Still, out of politics
McGregor got a membership of Geelong
Harbor Trust, which carries a salary of
£2OO a year. It is now proposed to amalga-
mate the Melbourne and Geelong Trusts, so
that £2OO will liit.
The late Canon Allnutt, of Cobbitty,
almost inhabited the courts for a while in
the long ago. Two young fellows attending
his Sunday-school alleged that they saw the
parson and a lady—er—behind some tanks
near the church. The parson
was called upon to explain, and
his method was to sue one of
the lads, a minor, for libel,
£lOOO being claimed by way of
damages. The defendant and
his mate gave evidence in detail,
but the jury did not believe
them, and awarded Allnutt the
full amount claimed. Of course,
the defendant being a minor,
the verdict, as for damages, was
worthless. Darley, C. J., com-
mitted both lads for perjury.
One was tried before the late
Justice Foster, who declined to
preside at the second trial,
which was conducted by the
late Justice Innes. Both lads
were found guilty. Allnutt
appealed for mercy, but the
lads got two years apiece. One, by the way,
was released early on account of ill-health,
and on arival at Campbelltuwn had a demon-
stration of welcome from the people of the
district.
“ .Jeames” ushers out a prince
Prince Francis Joseph of Braganza, who hasjUst
died, aged 40, on the lovely little Neapolitan island
of Iscitia, was well known in Sydney some years ago.
He had an odd career. A grandson of King Miguel,
of Portugal, he had a better claim to the unstable
Dago throne than the now-deposed Manoel. In con-
sequence he was debarred from living in Portugal,
and joined the Austrian army. He told a Portuguese
acquaintance that he meant to visit London, and
shortly afterwards was warmly recommended to take
certain rooms in Stamford-street, near Piccadilly.
He did so, and within a week found himself in gaol
charged at the instance of the man who ran the
rooms under Section 11. of the Criminal Law Amend-
ment Act. He claimed that it was a plot to ruin
him engineered by bis political enemies; and that it
was a put-up job of some sort was clear as soon as
the case came on at the Old Bailey. The Crown
dropped , the proceedings, and his accuser was re-
quested to get but of the country. The young man
arrived in Australia (as Count de Nieva) with his
father to give the 1 unpleasantness a chance to blow
over. Tall, slim and fair, he looked quite unlike a
Portuguese. He divided his time between card-
playing at the Union Club and pigeon-shooting at
the Gun Club, where he stood as a far-back mark
with such eminent characters as Arthur Eales and
“Cameleroi.” He was a major in an Austrian Guards
regiment when the war started, and served with
distinction against the Russians in 1915. The
Italians got him in 1917. He had been wounded
four times.
Ballarat City Council is a plunger. Lieut.-
Colonel Morton, who succeeds Bng.-General
Williams as town clerk, is to get £4OO a
year.
For the first time in 19 years Federal
Caucus-leader Tudor is to have opposition
when the Labor narty makes its selections.
Mayor Barcelo. of Richmond, considers that
he would be a better man to represent Yarra
Of 1 ictoria’s 27 Premiers whose photo-
graphs are gathered in a frame at Parlia-
ment House, only four (O’Shanassy, Irvine,
Matt and Lawson) were clean-shaved. There
was an interval
of 39 y ears
between the re-
tirement of the
clean- shaven
O’Shan assy from
his third Minis-
try and the
coming of the
bare-'faccd Ir-
vine. From 1863
till 1902 only
men more or
less unrazored
ruled. Munro
had the biggest
beard; Gillies
confined his
forest to side-
boards, and re-
duced even those
when he wen i
to London as
Agent-General.
Shipowner
OWEN COX.
Late N. S. Wales Chief Policeman Fos-
bery’s lot was £23,510.
Police Commissionerships don’t often run
in a familiy, but Peterswald, just appointed
Superintendent in the Goulburn (N.S.W.)
district, is a son of W. J, Peterswald, who
lived and died as Commissioner of Police in
Adelaide.
Alfred Ernest Campbell Kerr, lecturer in
engineering at Ballarat School of Mines for
30 years, retires at the end of this month.
Work hitherto has interfered unduly with his
bowls: now he will be able to devote himself
to the real business of life with ardor.
The Argus has lost a white-haired boy:
11. A. Win ton takes on the organising sec-
retaryship of the newly-formed Taxpayers'
Association. The young man. who refused
a leader-writer’s post on the Herald just
after Davidson went out, will now be able to
touch up the Federal and State Govern-
ments for extravagance, and he is well
equipped for the mission.
,Chubb. J. of Bananaland. believes in
givipg- the Digger a. show. When his asso-
ciate of pre-war days, Morrissett, changed
his gown for khaki, the Judge gave the job
to North, who was then in the naval arm.
North managed to make the change to khaki,
and when Uannian, fresh from the war,
dropped in and inquired about the job, the
Judge said. “Verdict for the Digger.” Now
Morrissett is back with the rank of captain,
but is content to be away from exhibits and
plaints; so North has taken his old seat.
IJanman drops into the Inky Way as editor
of a Diggers’ paper, the Crusader.
Back from the fronts Staniforth Smith,
one-time Mayor of Kalgoorlie, then Senator
and afterwards Administrator of Papua.
Smith enlisted in the West, departed as a
quartermaster-sergeant, and became a lieu-
tenant before facing the Huns. He is doing
a bit of work on his brother’s farm on the
Blackwood (W.A.) before moving east to
resume his old job.
F. G. Robinson has been chosen by Schutt.
.T., as his associate. In Vic. the salary paid
by the State for this job is £250 a year, a
useiul allowance when the holder is studying
law. Isaacs, J., was once an associate, and
as such picked up a few wrinkles which he
applied later. Two other plodders were
Barlow, who obtained a police magistracy,
and Pearson (nephew of the late Hodges.
J.), who is now Clerk Assistant of the
Vic. Uppah House, and may succeed the
magnificent McCall soon, unless Newton,
the Assembly Clerk, has an eye on the post.
.Tommy Crosbie, the new president of the
Vic. Friendly Societies’ Assoc., is a former
Chief President of the A.N.A. He has
specialised on the friendly society work of
the Natives’ organisation, and, though
handicapped by a voice that wasn’t built for
oratory, can hold an annual conference as
no other man can on most of the things that
really matter.
“J.G.”: Besides sentencing Deeming the
late Justice Hodges' had the distinction of
gaoling a moderator of the Presbyterian
Kirk. The Rev. P. .T. Murdoch wore the
ruffles when the Ronakl-llarper case was on.
Called as a witness he was asked to pro-
duce a certain book. He said he couldn’t
do it until he got the consent of the Presby-
terian Assembly. Hodges replied that no
church or clergyman was above the law.
and ordered immediate production. Mur-
doch held fast, and Hodges ordered him to
gaol. The rev. gent was behind the bars a
few hours; then the Assembly rushed to his
rescue, and the book was brought into court.
Many a dour Seotchbyterian never forgave
Hodges for that day’s work.
HIS LUCK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They worked a widowed mother's farm,
And when there sounded War’s alarm
They tossed to settle who should go
To fight against their country’s foe.
He won, and sadly shook his head.
“It’s jest my blankv luck,” he said.
He met a Boche in single fight.
While on patrol one moonlit night.
Each tossed a bomb. The Hun threw wide.
A tiny splinter ripped his ■ side ;
But Fritz W’as smashed beyond recall.
He said: “It’s jest th’ luck, that’s all.”
Then with his Lewis-gun one stunt,
Of fierce attacks he stood the brunt,
And shattered them, with heavy loss;
’Twas thus he gained his small bronze cross.
“It’s jest th’ luck,” I heard him say—
“l blanky nearly ran away.”
A glad smile lit his features grim
When Anzac furlough came lo him;
But as we waited for the train
A shell came sailing o'er the plain....
“It’s —jest—my—blanky luck!” lie cried;
“So long—ol’ pal.” That’s how lie died.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
WILLIAM JAMES DIGGER.


fT
4M
X
1* "a
:
'H
: w
V .
Uk
m
*
■ >;
X
The Memory of Splendid Service
Among each draft of our fine fellows, now returning from the front,
are many Gowing customers. Immediately the nee d for civilian
clothes arises these men come straight to Gowing Bros. They really
need no prompting no inducement.
The memory of the splendid service that they have heretofore
received from this house is lasting. What a wonderful tribute it is
to any house that after an absence of four or five years men still
hold them in deep appreciation !
Our customers know that in “Austral” Sac Suits to Measure, they obtain such care,
such quality, such value as yields them a consistently good appearance and the
economy of sound and lasting wear.
"Austral” Sac Suits to Measure
85/- 95/- 105/- 126/-
A Discount of 5 per cent. (1/- in the £) is allowed to Returned
Soldiers in Uniform on Cash Purchases amounting to £5 or more.
To any address we gladly send patterns of the new fabrics, together with simple forms for
self-measurement, post free on request. Carriage paid on all orders throughout Australia.
484-490 George St.
3-17 Royal Arcade
SYDNEY.
OWING BR° 3 1™
EVERYTHING FOR MEN’S AND BOYS’ WEAR.
NEW BRANCH STORE AT
304-306 George St.
(NEAR HUNTER STREET?
SYDNEY.


A Distinguished Member of the Great Cast of the Williamson Grand Opera Co., Sydney,
Gount Ercole Filippini, writes of the Value of Clements Tonic for the Nerves:
“Fulfilling extended operatic engagements without sufficient recreation brought
on nervous depression , which I found could only be relieved by the use of a
good stimulating medicine , and that I found to be Clements Tonic .
“This I have proved beyond all doubt f (Signed) pftCOI FFII IP P INI
All professional people should keep this medicine on hand. If does good because it is good,
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle, N.S.W.
SOCIETY
“Full Ahead" : Hats off to the engineer!
When the . Ityan Government chartered the
Tinana to carry foodstuffs to the North not
A PILLOW SLIP.
“What caused the trouble?”
“Oh, he made his bed and started to lie out
of it.”
the slightest difficulty arose about giving the
seamen all the wages and conditions they
have been clamoring for. So the chief officer
found himself on the same wage (£l5 a
month) as the boatswain, while the second
officer (£l2 a month) got £2 less than the
seamen, and the fourth engineer 10s. a
month less than the donkeyman. Brains, a
long apprenticeship and responsibility were
nothing compared with brawn and votes. If
ever a body of men were justified in striking
it was the engineers. But they didn’t. They
knew that, while Walsh yearned to be a
martyr, the women and kids cried for bread
in the North. So they signed on at a bob a
mouth, refusing payment from Government
or shipping co.. and trusting to their brother-
engineers of the Institute’ to keep the pot
boiling in their homes.
“P.”: The Repatriation Department
takes over on lease from Sydney City
Council the old Exhibition Building in
Prince Alfred Park.
One of the terms is
that the Department
shall buy the old frump
a new hat, at an esti-
mated cost of £2(590. In
1869 the City Council
decided to erect the
building for agricultural
shows and other public
purposes. John Young
was builder; Edward
Bell (City Engineer)
designer; cost, £17.475.
The floor space is 198 ft.
by 130 ft., and when
first erected the hall
was the largest in Aus-
tralia. Governor Bel-
more did the opening o:i
August 30, 1870, and
the first job of the build-
ing was to house the
Intercolonial Exhibition.
The shabby old barn
has vibrated, to many
noted voices. Here, in
1875, the silver-tongued
Archbishop V a ughan
orated for the Daniel
O’Connell centenary. In
1885 Loftus and “plain
Bill” Dailey welcomed
home the Soudan con-
tingent. And before the
present Town Hall was
opened—in November,
1889 —lima di Murska
sang there, and Anna
Bishop, and Melba, and
Alice Rees-Vbgfich, and
Frances Saville, and
Charles Santley, and
many others whose
ghosts the flapper and her boy and their
unmusical roller-skates liaVe clattered among,
during recent years. ,
“Snell”: .Apparently the Digger is. not
going to put off his troglodyte mode of life
altogether simply because there is no longer
a Hun to enforce burrowing habits. An
Anzac has secured a block at Prince (Vic.),
and when he had been in possession two days
a neighbor found him busy digging a hole.
“What are you up to?” Bill was asked.
“Startin’ the well,” Bill replied. “Diggin’
the well first? That’s a new idea,” said the
neighbor.” “Yes,” explained William —“I’m
goin’ to live in it till I get the place up.”
* * * ** „ . V ssjf. *
July was a great month fhr" Sydney under-
takers: a poor one for midwives: The abnor-
mal mortality—at the rate of 25.57 per 1000
per annum of the population
(which is 112 per cent, above
the average of the previous
five years)—was due chiefly, of
course, to ’flu. But not all who
died died of ’flu, though in
scores of cases ’flu was respon-
sible. Thus the death-rate of
infants under 12 months was 2y,
p.c. over the average; and baby
died, no doubt, because mother
was ill, for altogether only 40
children under five died of the
beastly thing itself. And 295
children omitted to get born at
all —taking 1879, which is the
July average for the past five
years as the standard. On the
same basis there were 31 deaths
too many from pulmonary
diseases, 17 too many from
diseases of the heart, five from
cancer, 21 from senility, and 11
from phthisis. Even the acci-
dent rate showed a rise of two.
In fact, in every line but one—
Bright’s disease —the figures are abnormal:
pretty fair proof that you can’t tell the cost
of an epidemic by merely counting up the
number of people who are returned as vic-
tims of it.
* * * *
“Lex” on the art of being a witness :
T. J. Ryan, Premier of Queensland, and Gerald
Riviere, remittance-man, appeared in Sydney last
week in the High Court and Bankruptcy Court
respectively. Ryan, like all lawyers, was a bad wit-
ness ; the imported youth proved an ideal one. Ryan
was too explosive and would make speeches. When
his counsel inquired if so and so was the case he
didn’t say “No” and leave it at that; his reply was
“There is no truth whatever in the allegation,
Mr. Macrcssan.” One suspected that Ryan was handi-
capped by having to sit down (.all Witnesses sit
in the High Court), and that he would have pre-
ferred to stand and smite the outstretched palm of
his left hand.
Young Riviere has a high, clear head-voice, in
contrast to the round and resonant tone 3 of the
politician. For whatever reason Riviere’s one aim
seemed to be to clearly set forth the precise facts
as to his astonishing financial transactions and his
conduct generally. He listened attentively to each
question: affirmed or denied in one word, whenever
possible; and where a qualification was called for
supplied it with the minimum of verbiage and
“HANGING OUT.”
final session of (the 21th N. S. Wales State
Parliament wag opened by the Governor on Tuesday.
Many new measures were outlined.”
emphasis. “You’re trying to sling mud, Mr. Knox,”
boomed Ryan emotionally. Compare this with, the
Riviere method. “You’ve suffered privations , 'oq
£2OOO a year!” cried Abrahams on behalf of the
young gambler’s chief creditor. “I said privations,”
replied the spendthrift quietly, and his Hebrew
cross-examiner subsided.
A witness is “good” sometimes owing to sim-
plicity and- lack of vanity (rare qualities, these) ;
sometimes because he combine's natural taciturnity
with a keen desire to help the Court; sometimes
because he is cynically indifferent to what the Court
or anyone else may think of him. The last is the
likeliest explanation of Riviere’s excellence. A
witness is “bad” when he exploits the court as a
place in which to “show off” or posture; when he
tries to make a public-meeting of it; or when he
is of the loquacious type. The things that make Ryan
a successful party-leader make him a bad witness.
Still, he .is better than W. M. Hughes, one of the
keenest litigants and worst witnesses known to Aus-
tralian Courts.
* * * *
“Gregorius”: In a recent paragraph (B.
7/8/T9) about the supply of artificial
courage to those about to be hanged, I
stated that gaol regulations or instructions
to medical officers did not sanction such a
use of drugs. Since the par appeared a
medical friend who has officially attended
close on 20 send-offs in Bananaland has
shown me a copy of the instructions to
prison doctors in force in northern gaols
up to 1885. One of these said that “where
the medical officer has reason to fear that
the condemned person may suffer a physical
collapse, so that the execution might have to
be carried out under unforeseen circum-
stances or after delay, he shall administer
such sedative drugs as he thinks fit.” Later
the paragraph was dropped out altogether,
and the victim just had to take his chance.
There is ou record only one case of a com-
plete breakdown or “scaffold shock” in a
N. S. Wales prison. After repeated attempts
to revive the condemned from a comatose
condition, he was placed in a chair and
hanged, the chair going through the trap
with him.
* * * *
From a city consulting-room :
The Chief Secretary of South Australia told a
deputation of optometrists the other day that the
Inspector-General of Hospitals had reported favor-
ably on an Opticians Registration Bill, wherefore
the measure would be introduced at the earliest
possible moment. The idea is to save the public
from the peripatetic quack. But this is not the
only one from whom the public needs protection.
Apparently under this measure not only opticians
but even shopmen who sell spectacles are to be
given a legal status! At any rate the above-men-
tioned deputation did not want to interfere with
such shopmen; and as some of them might be a
bit rusty in optics, it was proposed to register
them, without any examination at all, or, at most,
with only a light one. Is this protecting the public’s
eye'? Any Government which gives the authority
of a legal status to men in such circumstances
commits a crime against the public interests, and
ought to be told so plainly. Refraction work—
that is, the prescribing of correcting lenses—can
be properly done in only one way, and that way
requires a dilated pupil and a retinosCopic mirror.
Much good work can, no doubt, be done with
the ophthalmometer; but few opticians, let alone
shopmen, have mastered even this instrument. Re-
fraction work is an important branch of medicine,
and the public is not going to get a fair deal
until that is recognised. It certainly will get the
opposite of a fair deal if a Parliament throws its
*gis over people who, from the professional and
scientific point of view, are as much quacks and
charlatans as any travelling spectacle-vendor.
“L.W.”: Re “Fair Dinkuru’s” casual cove
(I». 7/8/’l9). The War Chest Club in Lon-
don had a lost property department and 1
never knew it to have less than half a dozen
wooden legs on the shelves. If a leg began
to chafe, the Digger just left it on the bed.
pinned up the bottom of his trouser leg and
breasted the bar ou his crutches. The Hare-
field Hospital car used to collect stray legs
weekly from the Club.
* * * *
“G. Elburg” : A sign of the times in the
once-Golden West is the dearth of business
in the courts. Few of the inhabitants can
afford to hire a learned friend to get them
either out of their troubles or deeper in;
and if it were not for the fact, that the
late invasion of Belgium bucked up the
correspondence industry in this as In other
countries, Gent One would be having a still
frostier season. Meantime the C.J. and his
two learned brothers of the Supreme Court
stay in their chambers and eat their heads
off.
* * * •
The Bulletin’s deadly rival, the War
Cry, makes the amende honorable: —
HE "WAS NEVER A WIFE-BEATER.
In the rush of getting notes and reporting it
sometimes inaccuracies. occur, and we regret to say
that a statement of such a character occurred in
the interesting report furnished by Ensign Bale of
the Bendigo opening. In this report a statemenf
was made concerning a brother that ho had in his
unregenerate day? been guilty of beating his wife
when under the influence of diink. We understand
ttiat this comrade was never guilty of beating his
wife or any other feuwie in all, his drunken career,
a fact of, which he is justifiably proud. We are
very sorry the .statement, apjjeftred, and congratu-
late the comrade jA f question, 'htk, his manly charac-
ter, even where under the limuence of drink. —
Editor, War Cry. ?
This paper often wofi.ficredj at the conquer-
ing-hero look Avoyn li.v sliaie people in fiery
jerseys who really dkiiY’t loom to have much
to be proud o-fo .Air knows now that they
were taking justifiable, pride in not having
thrashed their mother or fjfeed their wife in
fat. .
AND SO THE WORLD GOES ROUND.
D AD: “You girls get clothes, clothes, clothes
just to get a husband.”
G IRL: “Yes, but, dad, remember we get a
husband, to get us clothes, clothes,
clothes !”
“Kaylee”: I have torn up my steamer
ticket to ’Frisco, deciding I don’t want to
meet Uncle Sam’s children in a body. My
friend, just returned, tells me that in the
States the common meaning of A.E.F. (the
equivalent of our A.1.F.) is ‘‘After England
Failed.” When the Armistice was signed
buttons were sold bearing the boast, ‘‘lt took
us only a year.”
(Continued on page 18.)
MORNING IN THE SUBURBS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
From eight to ten 1 need no watch
To know the time of day;
I simply raise the window-catch
And let my glances stray
Across the lawn and past the fence
To where, with features drawn and tense.
The neighbors make their way
By path and road, up hill and down,
To catch the morning trains to town.
From eight to quarter-past a line
Of breathless men tear by
Who have to be at work by nine;
No plea, excuse, or lie
Will save them from a painful fate
(To wit, the sack) if they are late;
And so, with hats awry
And flying coats, they gallop past,
And, panting, reach their goal at last.
At half-past eight the clerks move off —
Gay, arrogant young men,
Who at their dull employers scoff.
One wields a fluent pen
In an attorney’s offices,
Another in a warehouse is,
A third assists a Bank. But when
Their train is heard all pfide departs:
Each at the station madly darts.
Eight-forty-five, nine, twenty past—
Such are the typistes’ hours.
These maidens jib at movement fast:
They, scorn the slave who scours
His suburb’s roads to catch a train.
For them the engine shrieks in vain.
Like fair, disdainful flow’rs
They bloom upon the roadway’s grime
Indifferent to fleeting Time.
And lastly come the business men,
Old, pompous, adipose.
Starting at twenty-five to ten,
Their forms and faces gross,
Are still in view beyond the gate
When, breakfast being on, though late,
I rise, the windows close,
And, turning tq the meal with zest,
1 give my senseless vigil best.
N.SAV.
10-2-4.


(A
I
r a
y
i
\
/
%
*
'i
w
a
4
%
B
a
©.
©
VJ
PEACE AND ITS MESSAGE
Glorious Peace and Victory have crowned the arms of the Allies after four years of bitter struggle in the world’s greatest war. The
aggressor has been beaten, and the forces of right and justice, freedom and liberty rule supreme.
Instead of tearing down, men shall now build up. The message that Peace brings is the message of reconstruction and co-operaticn.
RE-CONSTRUCTION AND CO-OPERATION.
The Barnet Glass Rubber Co. —Founders of the rubber
industry in Australasia —will contribute substantially to the
new order of things. By increasing the output of rubber
goods, they will assist the steady advance of commercial Aus-
tralia, but to do this the co-operation of every true Australian
is needed.
Manufacturing is destined to be the salvation, of Australia
Eclipse all other slogans and live up to only one—
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
Honesty of construction —thorough organisation, quality and reliability are embodied in every product of the Barnet Glass Rubber
Co. —the work of Australian workmen.
BARNET GLASS RUBBER CO. LTD.,
“FOUNDERS OF THE RUBBER INDUSTRY IN AUSTRALASIA,”
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, Hobart, Perth, Launceston, Christchurch and Auckland ( N.Z ,)•


Of *72.
m
Friends, cards, smokes
and of course
BRINK?
§
WHIJKY
are all you need for
a pleasanr evening
Ednds is a
PoK SHI I Spiriir
To meet the
demand
TOOHEYS
Have brewed a
Special Stout
Equal to Imported.
TRY IT.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
‘’Dido”: Lately a motor accident occurred
on the road from Melbourne to Elsewhere,
which resulted in two fine cars being woefully
crumpled, and live mutual acquaintances
sustaining various injuries. One driver had
a lady with him ; the other, in a larger car.
was well loaded. When people had picked
themselves up and said “Fancy meeting
you!” and sorted themselves out, a rough
count was taken, and one lady was missing,
ff was the first driver’s sole companion.
“She was thrown into the ti-tree,” the chauf-
feur of the big car testified; “I saw her go.”
An obliging gentleman made a move to the
ti-tree, but the driver of the small car inter-
vened. “Don't,” said he, “she’d better stay
where she it.” “But surely you are going
to help her? She may be hurt!” “My dear
Blank,” said the other, still under his
breath, “when a man’s had a bit of luck he
should stand to it. For the love of Heaven
drive, on, if' you can. and take Dash with
you! It was one-solution of the familiar
problem of the road: “When you are out
joy-riding with Mrs. Dash and you run
into Dash, what should you do?”
* * # *
Bill Bananalander” : Jim Page has often
displayed good nature in pairing with, or
finding a pair lor, a member who was in
a fix', but his most notable act of the kind
was unintentional. Palmer, who was buried
at Euroa the other day, was entering the
House of lieps. a year or so back, when he
tripped and fell heavily near the Speaker’s
chair. A little later the same evening the
very-obliging Page did the same thing on
the other side of the chair. No entry was
made in the pair-book that time—it wasn’t
necessary.
* * * *
“0.K.”: If “Pussyfoot” Johnson, the
Yankee prohibitionist, has gone to Britain,
to preach the doctrine of “One wife, No
drinking, No smoking,” he will get no whole-
hearted support from the women, I’m think-
ing. They will quarrel with his third tenet.
THEN THE WIND GOT UP.
G ERT: “Father is awfully old-fashioned —
thinks a girl should wail until she is
asked. Now I”
BERT: “Er, you'll excuse me, won't you? I
promised mother I’d he home before
ten!"
Long ago I was almost persuaded to aban-
don the smoking habit—by an old friend of
mine, a showman of all people! “Why not
drop the pipe, old man?” suggested this
immoral reformer. “Think of the time you
waste in cutting tobacco, filling your pipe
and fooling with a pouch. Smoking dulls
your brain and makes you indolent. It’s
a beastly habit; you smell of tobacco and
are offensive to women. The money you
spend on your precious smokes is worth
saving; and think of the gain to your health
in sparing yourself the expense! Give it up,
old man!” Spoken with line oratorical
effect these words struck to my soul. Then
I went home to my one wife, and broached
the question of my new resolution. Did I
get a sympathetic hearing? The one wife
started off with ".Ridiculous.!” My smoking
kept me industrious, rather than lazy. The
IN A LOSING RUMOR.
"What would you say if I had lost all my money?"
"I should say you would be losing me next."
smell of mil tobacco was not offensive, but
pleasant. Other men might carry dirty
pipes, but mine were quite nice things to
have about the house. And —this was a
clincher—smoking kept me healthy by
taking the edge off my appetite at meals!
“Think of the men we know who don’t
smoke—what gluttons they are! llow they
c at!” cried my only lawful one. 1 was
convinced. Next day the impressive elocu-
tionist asked me how about the beastly pipe,
but I shook my head. “Nothing doing.’’
“Pussyfoot - ’ had better stop at “One wife,
No drinking.”
“Ato”: The Argus, which would hang,
draw and quarter strikers when they are con-
nected with the Trades Hall, has not one
word of censure for the longest and most
far-reaching strike Australia has ever ex-
perienced. The union doctors of Vic. have
been “out” for 18 months, and through
solidarity and an organisation quite without
parallel are now certain of victory. They
have smashed the Friendly Societies. Many
branches which before the B.M.A. ultimatum
were wealthy are practically insolvent, and
resignations of membership have come in by
the thousand; and during the ’flu-burst
many men had to cut into their little
savings instead of drawing sick-pay from
their lodges.
“Sparks”: On August (5, 1914, at 7.30 p.m., •
and at intervals throughout the night, the
following message was sent out from Maori-
land radio stations :■ —-
To all British ships. It has been officially an-
nounced that war has broken out between Great
Britain and Germany.
The wave used was that on which ships of
all nationalities “listen in,” and the power
was such as to ensure its being picked up by
any vessel within 2000 miles —-probably
further, as the night was a good one for
wireless. After five years’ deliberation I
still give that message the prize for being
the champion fool-thing of the war.
* * * •
An opening for a few Diggers:—
For over a month the military authorities in N.
S. Wales have been trying to get candidates for a
staff sergeant-major’s school of instruction. The
school has been twice postponed for lack of entrants,
and it is now put off till next month. The
probable trouble is the futile publicity methods em-
ployed by the Department, viz., (1) a notification
in District Orders (which no one in civilian life
ever sees) and (2) an insertion in the morning
papers amongst the official advts., which few but
regular soldiers and military contractors read. There
are hundreds of Diggers out of work; and many
could do worse that a staff s.-m.’s job, of which there
are 250 going begging now, with hundreds more to
follow as the C.M.F. expands.
The position is that the Defence Department is
anxious to train men as staff s.-m.’s and that first
preference will be given to returned A.I.F. men.
The educational qualifications are elementary; and,
for the rest, any Digger who has held a sergeant’s
job in the field could rely on making a success of
staff s.-m.’s duties in Australia. The staff s.-m.’s will
instruct militia recruits —give n.c.o.’s classes, and
do a certain amount of clerical work. There will
be three of them to a battalion, and their only
boss will be an adjutant in the shape of a Duntroon
graduate with active-service experience. The pay
during the two months’school has been fixed at £lBO
per annum, plus keep and quarters, and afterwards
it will rise to £2OO p.a., or, with increments, rather
more.
It is to be hoped that returned men will enter
these schools in all the States, more for the sake
of the C.M.F. than as a solution of a fraction of
the repat. problem. If they don’t offer, men who
have never served abroad will, and experience has
proved that the Australian boy is unwilling to take
his soldiering from this class.
From an Australian in Bagdad :
We are still lingering here in the last country on
earth—portion of a wireless unit to which the late
General Maude three years ago allotted the proud
duties of “operations,” whilst the secondary “lines
of communication” job was given to others who were
not Australians. Still the complaint at present is not
our detention, though that is bad enough, .but that,
being detained, our rates of pay have been reduced.
This injustice hit us the other day in the shape of
an intimation that in matters affecting pay the
rupee was now to be treated as Is. 6d. The pur-
chasing power here of the rupee at the best of times
is very poor, amounting to not more than Is. Natu-
rally it has not increased on the strength of the new
dictum. The net result of the order is that 2d. is
now lost on each rupee—about Bs. per monthly-
pay for a sapper and about 2s. 6d. per day for a
lieutenant. The men in the British Army, on the
other hand, have recently had their pay greatly
increased by detention allowances in the army of
occupation; but the allowances are not payable to
“Colonial” troops.
* * * #
John Lang, one of the prime movers in
the “New University” movement in ' Mel-
bourne, grieves because thus far the local
Uni. graduate so rarely has much affection
for his Alma Mater, and he grieves more be-
cause it is the mater’s own fault. The Great
Public Schools do their best to establish a
lifelong bond between the boy and the in-
stitution ; at the Shop, the intellectual bill
. of fare and the dignity of
the Chairs are everything.
The average student does
have rather a shabby time
of it. For instance, for
60 years past the Shop
has allowed its under-
grads. to grab their
lunches beneath veran-
dahs or trees, according
to the weather, the in-
door accommodation being
“hopelessly insufficient,
drab and insanitary.”
The best results can’t be
expected to accompany
official indifference and an atmosphere of
gloom, though jazzing in Wilson Hall during
lunch-hour might perhaps be regarded as
going to the other extreme.
* * # #
“2479”: “Gunner” (B. 14/8/’l9) would
have us believe that the shameful privileges
of “the officer caste” set up in Egypt were
soon abandoned. Nothing of the sort. Right
on to the end—or well on to the end—the
most desirable places were reserved for
officers. I was in Egypt for over three years,
and for the last six months of that period
was employed on A.I.F. headquarters staff
in Cairo. I had a friend, an Australian
officer, who had a room at Shepheard’s 'Hotel,
and every time I visited him I was obliged
to enter by the back staircase, where Abdul
was juggling the cook’s coal and refuse.
Again, towards the middle of 1918. because
an officers’ school had started at Heliopolis
Palace, the first-class accommodation on the
Heliopolis trams was placed “out of bounds”
to ‘other ranks.” It was then an every-
day occurrence to see Diggers standing on
the footboards hanging on to the railings
pressed up against evil-smelling Gyppos. while
three or four officers occupied me entire
hrst-class compartment, capable of seating
dU Gunner” says “these measures were
not strictly enforced.” I can show him an
entry of 14 days’ C.B. on my crime-sheet
awarded me by a kindly A.P.M. for haying
travelled in a first-class carriage from Cairo
to Matanah.
* * * .
Hamer : A private detective agency
advertises that it “stands supreme for
divorce, and mentions a record of three
cases won in a morning. There is no profit
in the unsuspicious spouse, but the natural
end oi the man or woman who confides
suspicions to a divorce detective is the
Divorce Court. To discourage suspicion
would be to turn good money away, and
these agencies are commercial concerns. To
a certain extent, too. they are manufacturing
concerns. I know of a man, estranged from
his wife, who was asked by a woman lately
come to live in the house where he was stay-
in e to escort her through a park which she
had to cross at night—“on urgent business.”
I nsuspectingly he agreed to do so. Half
way on the journey the lady became hysteri-
cal. A detective, the man’s wife, and some
other people suddenly arrived to catch the
pair in “compromising circumstances.” A
cynical judge refused to be impressed by
the man’s reasonable request that an oppor-
tunity be given him to find the woman, who
had disappeared mysteriously. The wife’s
petition was successful and the agency
earned its fee. Private detective agencies
call for regulation. They should at the very
least be licensed. And any agency whieii
boasts its “divorce successes” should be the
subject of special inquiry.
* * * #
hYi “Pariah’ lately told “Eddyson”
that we can’t breed mohair goats (Angoras)
because we can’t build fences high enough
to restrain them ; but the real trouble is that
the Turk and the South African own the
pedigree studs. South Africa ate such a
hole in Turkey’s monopoly that tin* Un-
speakable shut off the supply of stud stock •
but it was too late, for S’Afriea had estab-
lished herds. Years after, when Australia
showed signs of reaching out for Angora
goat, the Afrikander forbade the sale of
high-class William and Nanny. Similarly
it closed down on the export of stud ostrich
strains when this country turned an eye on
the very profitable feather trade. By way
of reprisal we have allowed South Africa to
buy as much of our unique wool-growing
strains as she cares to pay for. As a re-
sult. the ex-Australian who is the Union’s
wool expert informed his Government the
other day that it would only be a matter of
a little time before South African wool
would equal in quality that of Australia or
any other coum-ry.
HAVE YOU?
“The marriage question's getting dreadful!"
“Yes, indeed! Have you ever noticed how
many more men get married than
women?"
“Blanc”: One of the most dangerous jobs
in the recent war was the testing of the
canisters on our small box respirators by
volunteers at £3 per hour. The canisters
were placed in a chamber full of gases,
with rubber tubes leading from them through
holes in the walls. If the canisters were
correct they allowed only pure air through
until the chemicals in them were saturated
with the gas, when the latter also came
through. As the men attached to the tubes
got the first suspicion of gas a note was
made of the safety-duration of the outfit. A
good mouthful of certain of the Devil’s goods
meant death or life-long trouble. Still there
was no lack of volunteers.
THE SUGAR THAT ISN’T.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sweet, sweet is the wind of Spring,
But not on a tea-cup’s lip;
For tasteless and grey is the stuff to-day
That we sit in the gloom to sip.
Sweet, sweet is the breath of flowers
That ope to the honey-bee;
But the daffodil, with its golden frill,
Is a useless herb in tea.
Sweet, sweet is Amelia’s smile
Beneath the brim of her hat;
And I’ll always take for the dear girl’s sake
At least two lumps of that.
Sweet, sweet are a lot of things
To dream and kiss and wear;
But the soul of tea, it seems to me,
Is the sugar that isn’t there.
X.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


55
a
1
2
a
m
mm
=r«
&&
E
PH
i
a\i
S
»
>'X
hi
sasss
»
wist
XV
&5
w
0M
i
8s
Ur
sue
1
VI
■ ...
£g
8
&
I
»i
%
1!
afire?
s®
s*
aegt
fM
m
m
m
W:
ifigf
m
mm
tm
m
m
£%
wa
7i
m
22
2>
0!
1
■
»BIF^S
Adam a*
fear,!,rife
I
llfflUHinUiltll
mw
ADAMS^ c?i:
m
=^ustraua
MU
i
i
I
MADE from long-fibred wool-felt and pure mineral hydro-carbon, it has
become extremely popular on residences, because of its long life, low
up-keep expense and the beauty which it adds to any home.
Inexpensive frame buildings require an inexpensive fire-resisting roof that does
not need frequent repairs. “ADAM AX” Roofing has shown by actual wear
that it meets all requirements at less cost for farm, factory and commercial
buildings.
“ADAMAX” Roofing scientifically combines the flexibility of wool-felt, with
the elasticity, weather-proofing, and long wearing qualities of Asphalt.
For your store, hotel, factory, school or other project built to endure,
“ADAMAX” is undoubtedly your best roofing investment.
Send for free descriptive pamphlets and samples, and ask for facts
about Durabestos Cement Sheets and Slates for exterior walls.
William Adams & Co. Ltd.,
175 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
521-3 Collins Street, MELBOURNE,
96 Currie Street, ADELAIDE.
Cr. Edward & Mary Streets, BRISBANE.
33 King Street, PERTH.
Newcastle Representative: Howard Smith Chambers, Watt Street, NEWCASTLE.
Tasmanian Representative: 31a Cameron Street, LAUNCESTON.


THe
finest
TOBACCO
Will Not
Bite the
Tongue.
ms
mu
issSSPf?
“EDGEWORTH
Fencing Wire
GALVANISED—
No. 8 Gauge, £JQ
per ton.
No. 10 Gauge, £32
per ton.
McEWAN’S,
Melbourne’s Busiest Hardware Store,
119-125 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
A Signal
Success
<3
King George IV
*** WIH!I§H
TheTOP-NOTCH’Scotgh.
ABORIGINALITES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Cerise”: A word with “Steve Hart" (B.
17/7/’l9) re Bourke. He says the place is dead,
and that even the ' pubs resemble morgues. They
may, so far as quietness and cleanliness go, but
the dozen of them manage to get a crust without
yelling for help. There are. also two butcheries,
one where the succulent descendants of the William-
goat. are dished up, and another where beef, mutton
and all accessories as good and as dear as else-
where are obtainable. Then there is the cordial-
. factory that turns out stuff warranted to tame
anything. Clubs: Rifle, race, cricket, ping-pong,
football (strenuous), tennis, poker and golf. Fire-
brigade, School of Arts, “movies” and a varied
assortment of churches. “Steve H.” is like a bloke
"'bo leaves his girl while she is in the butterfly
stage, and “ehifeks” her when lie returns and finds
that she has left, off fluttering round the candle.
THE UNDEFEATED OFFICE BOY.
‘But didn't you get off once before to attend
your grandmother's funeral ?”
“Yes, sir, she came near being buried alive
that time, sir.”
“X.Y.” : Apropos the brewing of the first
licet in Australia. There are two vegetables known
as Cape gooseberries. If the seed sold in the shops
be planted it results in the growth of a small,
weedy looking bush of a dark-green color. The fruit,
" hieh is about the size of a large cherry, but some-
what flattened, is enclosed in a husky capsule. It
is pleasant in neither flavor nor smell. However,
the plant is well worth growing for jam-making.
The other species is said to have come from India,
not S. Africa, and has large leaves of sage green
with a surface like velvet. The fruit when ripe is
a bright golden color with a delightful flavor and
aroma, cooked or uncooked. In the writer’s youth
he spent a good deal of time in collecting 1 the
immature husks of this berry for use in lieu of hops
in the making- of yeast for the household bread.
No doubt this is the plant which was referred to by
Collins as “the love apple, or Cape Gooseberry,”
in his account of the brewing of that first beer in
1796. The plant responds badly to efforts at cul-
tivation, but given an area of freshly burnt-off
sciub, or bush land, it springs up with enthusiasm
and takes possession, to the exclusion of hardy
native weeds. On the other hand, the true Cape
gooseberry grows and yields splendidly in the garden.
”D.F.” : Before the opening of Burketown
as a port in 1865, the supplies for the Queensland
Gulf country were carted overland from Bowen and
down the Flinders, anything from 500 miles upwards.
Edward Palmer, one of the
pioneers, describes some of the
flour as years old when they got
it; the grubs arid weevils had
either left it or died of old age,
and the only way to get it down
was to make it into johnny-cakes
and eat them hot. There is a yarn
that some flour which had left
Sydney years before and been
knocking round at Bowen Downs
station till it was sent to the Gulf
was too strong even for the stock-
men’s stomachs. It was chucked
out, and next morning a bunch of
dingoes and crows was lying dead
round it. For vegetables there
was pigweed ; at a pinch the leaves
of the wild marjoram-bush served
to make tea, and very fair coffee
was stewed from the scrapings of
the burnt edges of dumpers—Scotch coffee, thev
called it.
“Id\7' ; “The Dreamer’s” water-spider
(H. li/(/’l9) might be any one of a dozen varieties.
All of them run on the surface of the water or
dive under it as it suits them. They are all
covered closely with fine hairs and bristles, and
when they dive these hold the air and prevent the
spider getting wet. “Dreamer’s” friend who walked
down the side of a log under water was probably on c
of the raft-builders. These build a raft of leaves
and lay their eggs on it after mooring it. When
any tucker heaves in sight the missus skips off the
raft, scoots along the surface, and brings the flotsam
aboard. The commonest of the water-spiders is to
be found in every little waterhole, where it builds
a silk diving-bell under water and breeds its young
I here. The bell is kept filled with air by the
spiders, who bring it down a bubble at a time
clasped between the long hind legs. The youngsters
stay below for some time after hatching.
Steve Hart : Murphy was engaged one
evening by a back o’ sunset cocky. During the
night there was an awful commotion on the roof
of the hut. Bang, rattle, bump, followed by an
agonised protest from a hundred fowls. Peering
through a crevice Murphy made out the form of
his boss armed with.a long pole engaged in scraping
the ebooks off the roof, and with every ban- he
addressed sarcastic remarks to the egg-producers:
’, glt oft '; rve h:,(1 the fountain boiling
half an hour. Shoo; breakfast’s ready this long
ime. (Bang.) “You’re worse than the men for get-
■l' Ll!' ’ i lo 'n mmi ' teS later a Mostly form with
a swag and billy streaked silently over the plain
Murphy disliked late suppers. pl
* * *
Machete ; “D.S.’s” warm praise in a
lecent Bulletin of country pubs and his complaints
of the lon g gaps between
them, make me wonder
why G. K. Chesterton’s
notion of a “flying- inn”
has never been put into
practice. In Queensland
and N. S. Wales travelling
schools for Outback kiddies
have long been a State in-
stitution, and a travelling
pub, with a fixed beat and
a regular time-table,
would go a long way to
reduce the public debt.
Something in the nature
of a motor-caravan with
a. let-down counter at the
back, like the old-time
hawkers’ drays, with a
good supply of variegated
moisture and a hand-
painted would receive general approval.
“Camelero”: Australia is not the only
place where a dry river can become in a few minutes
a raging torrent. The Cameliers were bivouacked at
tA Arish, and the camels were driven out daily for
grazmg One morning they were feeding on the
\V ady hi Arish, when suddenly a sheet of water three
feet high came rolling down the dry bed. Several
of the camels were swept down stream. The animals
on the far side of the wady provided us with the
worst job I had during my two years with the
Camel Corps. A camel hates to face a stream of
any kind, and we tried for hours to drive them
across. Eventually we tied ropes around their
necks and pulled them over. One beast became so
frantic on reaching the middle of the stream that
it grabbed a Gyppo by the arm and nearly tore the
limb off.
“M. B. Ramsay'’: Outside Herberton
(N.Q.), some 20 miles away, there is a very deep
and very remarkable hole in the ground known as
The Crater. Leaving Nigger Creek the road leads
first through a belt of magnificent forest, where in
September countless great 18-inch-long plumes of
a cream-and-white orchid hang overhead from the
branches of the gum-trees. Another orchid with a
green inconsoicuous cluster of flowers has a pungent,
DOUBTS ABOUT lIER TALENTS.
MRS. COCKY: “That’s Corporal Smith and
his wife he brought out with him.
Terrible clever girl they sag she is."
MR. COCKY: “ H’m. may be, may be! But
I ain’t seen, ’er round about them cow-
sheds of ’is too much, missus."
irritating perfume like a mixture of magnolia and
dead goat, a scent that suggests an Asiatic bazaar.
Then you go through almost impenetrable jungle,
always bearing upwards, till with dramatic sudden-
ness the crater drops sheer down for three-quarters
of its circumference, which is considerable. On the
other quarter the drop departs slightly from the
vertical. You can only see the stone you have thrown
hit the water far below if you hurl it out horizon-
tally as far as you are able. It is an unearthly
blue-green pool, thick-mantled with a scum, in which
your stone leaves a black spot. The depth has
never been taken, though many attempts to sound
it have been made. Unexplained currents interfere
with any test. Popular report declares that there
is some underground communication between this
crater pool and the lakes Barrine and Eacham, and
there are those who claim a connection between
them and the Barron River. Northerners will tell
you that there is only one place they know more
weird and more uncanny than these lakes, and
that is The Crater. It is a fact that the blacks
won’t go anywhere near them. The cedar-trees of
the Lake Barrine shores are conspicuous even in
a district which has grown giant cedars,' some so
huge that they refused to go through the railway
tunnels'.
* » * *
“D.F.”: When the late John Forrest
wandered over some of the southern edge of the
Nullarbor Plain, back of Eucla, in 1870, lie said
that it was finer pastoral country than any in W.A.,
given water. Years later the Murrays, of Fowler’s
Ba\ (S.A.), tried stock on the extreme eastern
end of the plain near the Goldea Soak (called
louldeh by Giles, who camped there in 1875). Thorp
are still traces of their yards and camp about the
soak, and an 80-foot well near the plain where they
tried to get water but failed. The water trouble
rather than the remoteness (it was 100 miles from
Fowler’s Bay by a dry track) spoilt the show.
But now that the East-West railway goes right across
the plain for nearly 500 miles, Tommy Talbot, who
has a station near the coast between Eucla and
Esperance, has started in with cattle on the Wesf-
rahan side of the border, about 400 miles from
Ivalgoorlie. No one yet knows the exact size of
the plain, but it would certainly smother most of
V ictoria. Probably there is over 50,000,000 acres
of mostly saltbush and bluebush country. Some
patches carry great grass when it rains; but it also
carries dingoes, rabbits and a dreadful lack of water.
“Harrison O.": For cusserlness the mule
can t hold a candle to the common or back-
vaid sparrow. A cold, rainy afternoon was nearing
its end when the wife opened the back door to
consult with a vegetable heathen, and Spadger took
a wrong turning and found himself inside our
mansion. Judging by the fuss he made it was his
firm belief that he had strayed into Gehenna. He
flew about like an agitated moth, banging himself
against walls and ceiling, and travelling in every
direction except to freedom. We left the back door
open, and he flew into the kitchen; we opened the
kitchen window and he retreated to the bathroom.
W lien he dashed into the dining-room we tried to
entice him out, as though he were a blowfly, by
darkening the room and turning on the light in
the passage; but he merely fluttered about in the
darkness, knocking himself against every hard sur-
face available. We next tried to shoo him through
the back door with towels, but he doubled on os,
charged into the apartment where I compose some
of my finest poems, and settled for a while on top
of a bookshelf. The room has a bow window, so we
opened all the casements and left him there.
Throughout dinner we heard him fluttering about,
bmising his small body. We made fresh attempts
to set him on the path for home and got him into
the hall, where lie perched on top of the open
front door. A pair of socks rolled into a ball and
thrown at him from an angle which should have
driven him into the garden, caused him to fly in
19 directions, like the maddest of moths, ending up
m the lront bedroom. We opened the two windows
and closed the door. Whenever we paid eavesdrop-
ping visits Bill was mostly still having a flutter.
Iwo hours later I paused outside the bedroom and
there was silence within. It seemed as if he
had at last taken the hint provided by the open
windows. But lie hadn’t--the poor little beggar
was cowering in a corner, having damaged himself.
So I took him outside and .placed him in a tree, in
the hope that his cobbers would render first-aid.
* * * *
‘ Otira ’: “John Drayman’s” horse-talk
(B. 10/i/’l9) about ill-harnessed steeds should he
read by every driver. The horse that was hauling
a load with one trace a link shorter than the other
has a contemporary on a farm in M.L. lie was
released from a similar handicap by a sailor
man whs had to drive him to town. The
mariner was warned that Hubert, the horse,
always needed a bit of starboard helm, and
he found this to be so. But it puzzled the
helmsman. At last he got down and examined the
animal closely to see whether it was a case of lunacy
or defective eyesight. He tapped llubert all over
and made him say “ninety-nine.” Then he ran his
eye over the gear. AVhere the tow lines were rove
into tlie tow-horse he found a discrepancy of three
buckle-holes in the oft' trace. After this was adjusted
he found Hubert as easy on the helm as any other
one-horsepower craft.
“8.H.”: The reason a dog will not tackle
a. fox at night is not generally known even amongst
bushmen. It lies in the alien’s eyes. When a dog
rushes him in the darkness the fox simply turns
and focuses his optics on the eyes of his enemy,
and nothing happens. They have the same effect as
an electric torch being flashed in the eyes on a
dark night—you- can see the light but nothing
else. Reynard uses this powerful auxiliary to his
cunning when on in's fowl-stealing stunts. Very
often the hen is taken from a roost out of his
reach, though lie is no slouch as a climber. He
wakes up the poultry; then sits on his haunches and
fixes his eyes on his selection until it falls off the
perch. One proof that he applies this method is
that no noise is ever heard in the hen-house until
a chook is captured.
HE HAD NO TIME FOR THE PUB.
PROHIBITION LECTURER: “ Dear friends, I
have gone in for cards; I have gone in
for billiards; I have gone in for horse-
racing: but, thank God, I have never
gone in for drink!”
VOICE FROM THE BACK: “Sent the kid in
with a jug!”
Mulga” : Another disease has introduced
itself to Southern Queensland to add to the piety
of stock-owners. Recently a bullocky at Malenv,
Blackall Range, turned 35 bullocks out into a
paddock. Three days later they sickened and three
of them died. Govt. Vet. McGowan, as coroner, de-
cided, that the deceased were the victims of “pink
nose,” a form of poisoning resulting from eating
yellow-flowered lantana. It was the first time we’d
suspected it in Southern Queensland, and I’m not
satisfied that the verdict was correct.
{Continued on page 22.)
A LAST REQUEST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When I am dead please do not say “He passed
away” ;
Nor put a marble slab or pile rocks on niv head,
All railed around and painted black or white
To let the people know that I am dead—
That friends and foes might see as they go past,
And sneer at what it cost, and wish nor good nor
ill—■
Nor “Rest in Peace,” nor even “Rest at Last.”
And drag me not by horses draped in black.
I want no. shining hearse at crawling pace.
(live me a team that briskly trots along—
I'd rather it was made a bushman’s race.
I could not rest where graves are neatly made—
Shell paths and foreign shrubs make no appeal to
me.
So dump me underneath a gum-tree’s shade.
And strip a sheet of bark and mark the wood ;
Put carve no fancy scrolls or wreaths beside
(I want no decorations when I’m dead) —
•lust chisel out my name and how I died.
Vet say I died as 1 have always lived —in debt;
I'or that will be the candid truth at least.
I do not want my friends to mourn for me or fret.
And boil the billy if the day is blazing hot.
The women at the graveside need not faint —
I am not one that likes that, kind of fuss.
The men may smoke and yarn without restraint;
They need not doff their hats and dab their eyes
(I am a man that always hated sham)
<>;• say how good I was if they think otherwise.
Don’t fence me in ; no bush thing harmed me while
1 lived.
I loved them all, and now I have no dread
That they will interfere with me
Or injure me when I am lying dead.
N.s.w.
JIM GRAHAME.


NOVELS for AOSTRALIANS
Here are 10 novels by Australian authors which have recentlj been added
to the
“Bookstall” Series of
Australian Shilling Novels
1 1-
each
ALL ONE
PRICE
11
Posted.
ALL BOOKSTALLS
and BOOKSELLERS.
“The Coral Queen”
“ White Savage Simon ”
By Beatrice Grimshaw
By Beatrice Grimshaw
“ Sally: The Tale of a Currency Lass ”
By J. H. M. Abbott
‘ Red Mountain ”
‘ The Outlaw’s Daughter ”
‘ The Mount Marunga Mystery ’
‘Aladdin and the Boss Cockie ”
‘ Dawn Asper ”
‘ The Squatter’s Ward ”
* Yellow Silver ”
By Jack McLaren
By Arthur Wright
By Harrison Owen
By Randolph Bedford
By Broda Reynolds
By Edward S. Sorenson
By Edward Mery on
Every one of these novels has been an instantaneous success. Though several have been i
the booksellers’ hands only a few weeks, they have already run into second editions, a
glance at the list of authors is sufficient to indicate that recent additions to the • e
represent tlie
BEST AUSTRALIAN FICTION OBTAINABLE.
JUST PUBLISHED—
“THE DOINGS OF DAVE.”
By CON DREW.
A great book of humor, presenting confidence men and other “crooks" in a new light.
Generally the public is the victim of their exploits, but Con Drew humorously shows what
happens when one confidence man tries to “put one over” his confederates. All the old tricKs
arc given a new interest by this popular sporting writer.
Price: ONE SHILLING (Is. 1/zdL. posted).
WRITE FOR A COMPLETE CATALOGUE OF “BOOKSTALL” NOVELS.
Over 2,000,000 copies have been actually sold.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL GO. LTD.,
476 George Street, SYDNEY.
/A
Vi
U “VALLO” POWDER SHEEP DIP has made
a great reputation among Wool Growers for
effectiveness and reliability.
U The Scientific Expert pronounced it an Ideal
Dip—“ The Man on the Land” now fully
endorses this judgment from his experience.
*} All who used “VALLO” DIP last year—-and
a great many more, are using it this year.
They say “Fleeces couldn’t be better”; “The
Dip’s the best we’ve ever used.”
1T “VALLO” POWDER SHEEP DIP is
splendidly effective ; thoroughly reliable ;
manufactured in Australia, and cheaper
than the Imported.
■; Send us your order for this Season’s dipping.
The results will satisfy you.
We stand on efficiency, not old age.
“VALLO” POWDER SHEEP DIP is supplied in
eases each containing Ten 101 b. Packets.
MANUFACTURED BY
A. Victor Leggo & Co.
Melbourne Sydney Brisbane
AGENTS:—
DANGAR, GEDYE & CO. LTD,, Sydney.
CUMMINS & CAMPIiELiIi LTD., Townsville.
WALTER REII) & CO. LTD., Rockhampton.
BKABAXT & CO.. Brisbane.
JAMES WARBLE & CO., Adelaide.
MALLOCH BROS., Perth.
>. WHOLESALE FEDERATION (X.Z.) LTD., Wellington, N.Z.
FARMERS’ CO-OP
PROCURABLE ALL STORES.
SMART “ALL WOOL’’ SUITS
TAILORED
TO ORDER
Moderately
Priced.
An Old Suit is no longer a
Badge of Patriotism —
Dress Up for Spring.
Leviathan
Tailoring
Materials—“ All wool,” of Aus-
tralian Manufacture. In Pat-
terns, Appearance and Wear
equal to the best. Strictly
hand-tailored in the Leviathan
Workrooms by skilled workers.
The Quality Suit
To Order,
£7|7|-
Write for Patterns, Home
Measurement Chart and Tape.
10 Per Cent. DISCOUNT
allowed to Returned Men.
ORDER BY POST.
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
} wmm
.
** 'S-
•7:"' !
-
Hi
*
ii
•;7
: ir.csS
m
a
mi
' • • ft
,~v£
■" - • : .' '
•y?-n
s'Spsi'!
iSffii
[SB
■SBSW
t ;r~ •s^aSSw?
Leviathan
Cor. Swanston &
Bourke Streets,
MELBOURNE.
BRITISH-MADE
10-inch
DOUBLE-
SIDED
2/6
EACH
(N.Z. 3/-)
10-inch
DOUBLE-
SIDED
2/6
EACH
(N.Z. 3/-)
MAID OF THE MOUNTAINS” on Regal Records
At 2 6 each.
G. 7386
5 “Maid of the Mountains” Selections
/“Maid of the Mountains” Waltz ..
Ttesffffl Orchestra
Ilegal Orchestra
G. 7432
( JLive For To-day
l A Bachelor Gay
Uobert
Robert Gajrr,
baritone
baritone
EXCLUSIVE CONCERTINA RECORDS
By Alexander Prince, the World’s Greatest Player.
All at 2/6 each.
G. 7003
( Darkies' Holiday Schottisc he -• • (Burns)
( Silver Heels (Moret)
G. 7003
$ JLads of Scotland March
! Blue Bonnets Schottischc
(P.alftrar)
G. 7004
( Woodland Flowers
1 Henry Barn Dance
(Burns)
(Henry)
G. 7006
\ National Emblem March }
\ Liberty Bell March l&ousaj
G. 7000
( Jackanapes Polka
( Chicago Schottische
G.U23
\ Bluebells of Scotland, etc. With 801 l oliVcts j
( Butterfly Polka
(Boinlix)
G. 7389
f Stars and Stripes for Ever, March
i Washington Post March
(Sousa)
(Sousa)
G. 7410
S The Holy City
(Marche aux Flambeaux (Torchlight March) ■
A Splendid Record by the Regimental Band of
H.M. Scots Guards.
Price 2/6.
_ f Weymouth Chimes— with Chimes
J l Coronation Bells — with Chimes .
(Howgill)
(Partridge)
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR “REGAL" RECORDS—
SYDNEY. N.S. W. —Grafonola, X>t«l.. Daking House, Ka-.vsoii Plaec.
MELBOIRNE. VIC., and TASMANIA. —Messrs. Hugo AVert helm Ply., j |
Ltd., 17:> William Street, Melbourne.
BRISBANE, <1. —King and King, Ltd.. Queen' Street.
ADELAIDE. S.A. —Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street. ! ;
PERTH. W.A. —H. R. Firth, Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND. N.Z. —Arthur 11. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.—Bannatyne Sc Hunter. Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.—Webley Sons & Gofton. Ltd., 243 High Street.
DUNEDIN, N.Z. —IVebley Sons & Gofton, Ltd.
From whom
Catalogs and
all information
may be
obtained.


f
#»4i *#♦ • • .** *yi#v l
©
o
ft
w
*:•*• mt
•y.v.w
o
6
ART METAL SHOP FRONTS AND SHOW CASES.
ARCHITECTURAL ENRICHMENTS AND ART METAL CEILINGS
Stamping and Spinning done for the Trade. Stamping for Sheet Metal Motor Bodies and Parts a Specialty.
When planning buildings or extensions to Factory or Office consult us in the matter of
CEILINGS, WALLING and ROOFING. We Specialise in STEEL CEILINGS, “DURA-
BESTOS,” “CEILYTE” & ROOFING TILES.
SHOWROOMS:—
HEAD OFFICE AND WORKS:
IDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE,
Baptist Street, Redfern, N.S.W.
PERTH, BRISBANE, HOBART, LAUNCESTON.
POSTAL ADDRESS: Box 474 G.P.0., Sydney.
SOMETHING TO BE THANKFUL FOR, ANYWAY.
MRS. JONES ( commiseratingly): “Well, Mrs. Smith, an' how’s your face?”
MRS. SMTIH ( lugubriously ): “It comes an’ goes. Sometimes I ’ave it, an ’ sometimes
’aven’t.”
“Ivooragai”: Queer incidents happen on
the droving track. Once, when travelling between
Mt. Margaret and Nacpndra, our cattle were camped
on the side of a hillock, and tents were pitched on
the opposite side. It was a very dark night and
the quietest we had on the trip. Next morning as
we were moving off we noticed something wrong.
There were cows ahd weaners in the mob, even a
bull -and some calves. We blocked the lead and
rode through them. They were all strangers. How
it happened it was easy to explain. A mob of quiet
bush Cattle had camped at one point of the mound;
a man. going on watqh had missed the travelling
mob, and coming on tp these had carefully watched
them till moVning, while our own lot wandered
quietly away. We found the strays seven miles
back, and when ! we had counted them twice and got
back to the mbttnd it was time to camp again. It
was never discovered who made the blunder. The
chaps responsible were expert cattlemen.
* * * *
“Hay”: The' bilby was fairly plentiful in
Centtalia down to the end of the ’sixties. Some abo.
trihes used to spin its hair on a roughly made wheel
to make yarn for their waistbelts or sporrans. The
little, animal’s coat was silvery grey in color,
beautifully deep, and soft in texture. If obtainable
now it would be very valuable; but I fear the
“yellki,” as black brother called him, is, for all
practical purposes, extinct. In the ’seventies he was
very ( scarce indeed, and then I lost sight of him
altogether. When asked what had become of the
bilby Binghi would reply: “That one parripa”
(walked away), or “Yellki yan mullichi” (tumbled
down dead). There was evidence that at one time
the little fellows had been very numerous. They
lived in colonies, and for such small animals made
immense burrows with many exits and entrances.
Like the bandicoot, they did their earthwork at
night. The bilby was an active little beast, hopping
exactly like a kangaroo in a very erect attitude,
always holding his left paw down while the right
one was stiffly extended.
* * * *
“Hessen”; In compiling a list of the most
deadly snakes in the world the small adder which
infests the Jordan Valley, Palestine, should not be
overlooked. It put the wind up the Light Horse
far worse than Johnny Turk was able to do, though
it is only the size of a large worm. It had the
nasty habit of getting into blankets placed outside
the bivvy to air,- and when the owner turned in at
night it would get in its dirty work. In practically
every case of a - fair number bitten death occurred
within a few hours, despite prompt medical aid.
It even woke the brass-hats up, and men were put
on to catch live specimens to be sent to the base
for the purpose of making an antidote. I do not
know the result, as I was lucky enough to develop
malaria and left the Jordan Valley for ever.
“J.G.”: Re “Leo Lear’s” inquiry for good
maul-head timber (B. 24/7/’l9). I have found a
seasoned mallee sapling about 6in. diameter as good
as any and better than most. A lump of pepper-tree
also makes an excellent maul. “Lear” -is correct
when he says that mauls go to pieces because the
user doesn’t hit the wedges square, This is very
often due to the fact that the hole for the handle
is not bored true, and it also accounts for a lot cf
broken handles. A good way to bore a maul is to
turn it round every time you twist the auger.
This stops the auger from running away on a slant.
* * * *
“Major”: Has any Abo. dropped across
a cheaper droving outfit than this? Owner in
charge was a white man. He had two blackfellows,
two black boys, one gin and two white boys. This
outfit did a hundred miles with 500 fats along bush
roads in Central Q’land and never lost a hoof. The
rum went to the gin for the best night-watch.
* * * *
“Eddyson”: Teddy Ray had been thinking
a good deal about Red Milligan. He had been
arguing with himself that a man would not only
be justified in giving Red up if he had the chance,
but would be a bad citizen if he didn’t. It was
a different matter to that of Henry. Henry, after
all, had only done a foolish, headstrong thing that
really harmed no man, whereas Milligan robbed
right and left, and had come within an ace of
killing two men. The Government was offering
£lOO for Red Milligan, and Squatter Boland had
supplemented this with a hundred. It would be
flying in the face of Providence to miss such a
chance if it came one’s way. Not that there was
any likelihood of the opportunity, for Milligan’s
range was on the north and west corner of the
scrub, but it was right to have a well-formed opinion
on a matter of this kind and a plan of action, too.
Then even while Teddy’s mind was full of the
notion, the new cut in the haystack revealed the
flap of a man’s coat. It was a sort of light canvas
badly dyed red. And Red Milligan had escaped in
his prison clothes three months ago, and had com-
mitted his latest depredations in a prison suit that
he had attempted to dye by some rough bush
method ! Ted stood staring at the scrap of material
protruding from the hay utterly unprepared, despite
his long thoughts. Then he went forward, and
listened. He heard the long, heavy respiration of a
sleeping man. He sped into the house, trembling.
Two hundred pounds was at stake. “Get Denny,”
he commanded, “saddle him quick, and ride up to
Forman’s for Constable Kite. Tell him he must
come at oiice. Say it’s life and death.” Mrs. Ray
stammered questions. He would not answer, but
ordered her away, and when the small, lean, hard,
old woman rode off down the track he took the
muzzle-loader from oyer the flre-place, loaded it in
both barrels, and returning to the stack stood there
on guard. Mounted-constable Kite came within the
halt-hour. “What is it, Ray, man?” asked he.
Ray pointed at the stack. “It’s Red Milligan,” he
whispered. “He’s in there among the hay.” “Red
Milligan!” “Yes, yes, I saw his coat. He’s asleep.
\ou drag him out, I’ll stand over with the gun.”
Kite pulled the hay aside, and uncovered two feet.
He seized them and hauled the man out. The weary
wretch rolled over, rubbing his eyes; he sat half
up, blinking at them. It was not Red Milligan!
He wore Red Milligan’s old suit, but when he
stuck up Boland’s homestead Milligan had provided
himself with another and a better, one less dis-
tinctive, and the present wearer had robbed Milli-
gan s hidden camp, taking this suit as a substitute
for the few rags that had been left to him after
a week’s prowling in the scrub; and in it h e had
stolen home, sick, seeking succor, and had hidden
himself in the hay till he could be sure there was
no one in the house but those he could rely upon
to protect him, because, as it happened, he, too, was
wanted for a mere trifle of horse-stealing. Ray
stood like a man paralysed in every limb, his face
grey as a bone. Mrs. Ray stumbled forward, making
a thin, wailing sound, and fell upon the prostrate
man who had eyes for nothing but the constable’s
revolver Henry R ay ,>> 6aid liite « ,
prisoner.” J e *
* *
Iwig : Can any Abo. with experience
of water-divining instruct me how to reckon the depth
o stream or the supply available prior to the
water being tapped? I use the rod myself, but this
point has me beaten.
*
“Jacko”: If “E.S.S.” (B. 3/7/19) is
light that the skull and bones of the dingo have been
found in pliocene deposits, what becomes of the yarn
that the dingo is of Chow breed let loose in Aus-
tralia by the Portuguese about 1600?
* * *
“Tarwin”: Whenever our branch of the
Australian Historical Society meets an old bald-
head introduces Jim Carney. According to the
ancient no horse that ever lived could get rid of
Carney. 'One day,” he told us, “I seen Carney
ride a wild-eyed chestnut for two hours, and then
the ——- bucked the saddle clean off.” “Carnev
must have shifted that time,” remarked a new
member one night. The old man almost bit him
Carney shifted!” he sneered; “never in life. When
the baddle hit the ground there was Jim sittin’
fer W stirrup h s!” banky ’° rSe ’ S earS ’ USin ’ the bit ' rin !? s
*
“Wymac”: Abo. observers have omitted
to mention that the Australian stone curlew is the
only native bird that varies the color of its cg"-s
to match the immediate surroundings. The eggs
: h , e 7 ’!ir in £'' ass are greenish ; amongst sandstone,
reddish-brown; on sand, tawny.
# * ! „
“Te Whare”: Amongst our 60 (or a little
wwl VCnOm ° US , crawlers the pale-headed snake,
which science labels Iloplocephalm bitorquatus, is
rare. It hails from northern N. S. Wales and
Queensland, and if it stood on the tip of its tail it
would go up about 2ft. 6in. The top and sides of
its skull-cap are of a much lighter tint than the
blackish-brown of the bodv. while the belly has a
THAT FEELING OF MENTAL STRAIN.
“Did you visit Rome on your travels?”
"A-ah don’t know. The pater bought the tickets.”
salmon-pink tinge. Its young are born alive. There
is another variety, known as the northern pale-
headed snake, closely related to the more southerly
.squirmer. Lucky that, of Australian poisonous
snakes, only the black, brown and tiger and the
death-adder are at all common or very widely dis-
tributed. Three other deadly snakes measure 6ft.
and over, viz., the fierce, copper and small-scaled.
The rest are comparatively small, and, generally
speaking, much less venomous.
“Mundabell”: Try this prescription for
redwater: Cattle salts, one tablespoonful; raw oil
and sweet nitre, likewise; mix these in half a
bottle of Stockholm tar and wrestle with the patient
until you get the chance to pour the dose down his
throat. I was off siding for a bulloeky whose whole
team was down with redwater. He applied this
remedy amid a confusion of bellowing, vituperation,
dust and smashing bottles, but he managed ulti-
mately to dope each of his 28 bullocks as pre-
scribed. A few days later he w T as on the road again.
* * * *
“Constant” : Talking about the durability
of timbers, we ought to know accurately what time
of the year the trees should be felled. " It makes a
g.eat difference. When the sap of the tree is in the
newly-budded leaves, that timber will be worthless.
Most trees ought to .be felled just before the sap
rises.
* • * •
“Gringo” : Crocodile-catching is one of the
best paying games in Paraguay. The skins are
worth next to nothing, but the oil fetches anything
from £3 to £4 10s. per kerosene tin. Each croc,
gives about two litres of oil, and the reptiles are
about as plentiful in Paraguay as in the northern
rivers of Australia.
* * * *
“Silas”: Tom Curnow and his wife
answered Wilson’s ad. for a married couplp, and
were engaged, although they were a most unlikely
looking brace. They were small, and there was a
runaway look about them, as if they had just
escaped from the police. This furtive atmosphere
escaped no one about the homestead, and presently
the accepted opinion was that one or other of
the pair had broken gaol. Then Terry reported
that he had heard Curnow whisper to Ann: “He
ain’t come.” “No,” she replied, “I don’t believe
he’ll ever find us.” And Tom added: “Ile’d never
find us here.” Then it was noticed that both Ann
and Tom had a way of looking out along the
Horsham-road. There was never anything to look
at on the Ilorsham-road, so it was assumed that the
act was prompted by a troubled conscience. More
than once Curnow was hoard to say, reassuringly:
“Don’j; you trouble, old girl, he won’t come.” Or
Ann would say to Tom: “Do you think there’s a
chance of him cornin’?” and Tom in unblushing
contrariety to his own unmistakable concern would
answer: “He can’t And us. It ain’t possible.” It
was agreed then that Curnow had run away with
another fellow’s wife, and that the couple were in
terror of their lives lest the, original husband should
turn up with a gun. The Ciirnows were at Gang
Gang for seven months and the fear of their enemy
turning up never left them. Then one Sunday
afternoon a boy of about nine arrived at the home-
stead. He had come along the Horsham-road. He
was a stunted youth, with thin, pale red hair and
very light-colored eyes; but the most remarkable
thing about him was the impishness concentrated in
that small countenance—impishness and a terrier-
like cuteness. Tom Curnow saw him first, and
plunged into the hut to Ann. They closed and
barred the door. The kid faced Kelly. “Is me
mother workin’ ’ere?” said he. Kelly was cautious.
“Who is yer mother?” “Name’s Curnow,” answered
the boy. “She married another feller when me
father died, ’n’ after a while they cleared out.
But I’ll show ’em.” Then we understood. This
was “it.” “He” had arrived. The terror remained
for 24 hours at Gang Gang, knocked the eye out
of a cow, smashed three windows, let Wilson's
canaries escape,, got the cattle-dogs fighting, set
fire to the harness-room, stole a silver watch and
two pounds of raisins, pushed a calf into the well,
and did other minor injuries and mischief too
numerous to tabulate. We now viewed the Curnow
case in a sympathetic spirit, and forgave Tom and
Ann everything. We would have told them so, only
they had cleared out in the night.


,
t*' -'■< ~j
m: mm* '
i \
.
im / ■
*O%
€
A
■
IP
/
%
V-X, ' -
, '
t*CS»f f
I
&
/
f
■
-^y-%
m
/
G*ve
/
e
■.'»■
m
*&, 1
mr
m
m
wmm
HMKW .*.***■&■- #<■«•
.a i..r ass
%&A*isK


Some Coughs take a lot of “shaking off”
—generally several bottles of the ordinary
cough mixtures; but the worst and most
obstinate cough will disappear like magic
if treated with
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
Under the influence of this super-remedy
the improvement is immediate.
W. G. HEARNE & Co. Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street,
SYDNEY.
1
l "
%>
COLDS
COUCHS
4$
LUNG
TROUBLES
CROUP
CHEST
AFFECTIONS
always a sign of decadence, although at
tunes its products have a curious radiance,
like the lights which sometimes play above
decomposition. The “Victorians” who stood
guard so vigilantly over form in verse, it
has become the fashion to despise. In the
l ;.S.A. I heard them pitied by a professor
of English (nasally uttered) in a Western
1 niversity—pitied so genuinely that if those
dead Victorians could have heard it they
might have reconciled themselves tq__ the
sinister destiny which made them Vic-
torians. Yet which of all the free-versists,
or the despisers of Tennyson, would not give
all his poetic output for the privilege of
writing that loveliest of unrhymed lyrics,
Ihe Days That Are No More”? There is
nothing “national” about that, or about “La
/ie//e Dame Sans Merci” or “The Ancient
Mariner.” Longfellow, who was no more
national than Poe, considered from the
American viewpoint, says somewhere, con-
cerning the materials in which art works,
“That is best which Hath nearest.” It is
good counsel, but In' himself rarely practised
it. As for Poe, he might have written in a
star, so detached was he from American life
and things. If the Australian poet wishes
to write of the Hanging Gardens of Babylon
or of the Sorrows of Deirdre why not let
him “follow the gleam” as he sees it?
P. E. Q.
Whitlock’s Belgium
Belffium under oennan Occupation . l>y
Brand Whitlock (Ileiuemami, London), is
the story of the American Minister who
through the greater part of the war saw the
German treatment of Belgium from the
inside. The book, which is in two large
volumes, is interestingly written, though at
times too closely packed with detail for the
general reader. But there is a great deal
ot material in it for the future historian;
the. author has contrived to give very
faithfully the atmosphere in which he lived.
There is some self-revelation, too, of the
accidental sort. Thus General von Luttwitz
spoke of Burgomaster Max with admira-
tion
“A brave man,” he said, “and patriotic. I admire
lam; he stands up and doesn’t crawl when he comes
into ray presence.”
I did not know why anybody should crawl.
But indeed it was a terrifying time and
there were things against which it was hard
to stand up. When the result of the battle
of the Marne was known all Belgium laughed.
It kept some of that mirthful spirit through
all its sufferings. Max was a popular
hero.
.0.1 course, it was necessary that Brand
V\ hitlock should write a hook : hut ho has
cl me his work' much better than might have
been expected. The German condemnation
is written here the more convincingly because
so quietly.
The Singing People
Poems of Manhood , gathered by Mary E.
i I kin son (Whitcombe and Tombs, Mel-
bourne), is the first of a series of volumes
undei the general title of “(Hennings from
Australasian A erse. ’ It cannot be said that
the selection shown in the present volume
gi\ es any great promise for the completed
work Much matter that is in no way
worthy of the prominence given to it is
included; and many of the authors are very
poorly represented. The making of an
anthology is no light task. A book of un-
selected verses merely thrown together under
Sroup headings is of little value to the
writers PUbllC and of less to the individual
The Spinning Wheel, bv M. Le Grand
shows 1 'a aSUl a Autl ? ors ’ Agency, Melbourne).
comnass “ti! deal , of promise in a small
compass. The work never rises to a very
high level, but it is tuneful and pleasing
I heie is a feeling for words, and the choice
of themes is simple and unpretentious
Pttin \ b -T Frank Henry Irving
volume 3 T and . C °” Sydney), is a little
a t ul ’lT’ 11U ‘ ely . printed aild bound,
thl ni ,, le most interesting thing is
he idle. The author may or may not be
• J°ung, but he seems to have taken
carried bin hlS T 1% thm^h i( has not yet
' of S’'' St i U » the verses have
mnt ot better things about them marred
point tL an , a - ttempt to he didacSc anj to
Point the obvious moral There J ‘
A Satchel of Books
I he Federation of the IV ml,! i„. n ....
IX) ( Th ited , World PublfeWng Institute pJ Aue^
j“£ EpLSTS 23A *r* 'S
% p r p f usif t" •sat' rSffti"
modern prophets! ’ H "’ ntes better than r,l °st
JoSS).“Thfti£ S e e P 5f n an MC^S.gffi?, fS’
leaves i? S tI y t "?? le $ ca " not s P end hi » money. He
house Th P % fCiend , und j. uni P s oft' the roof of
a °. - T .he story, which is in part a seuuel to
Roma,” is forcefully told and touches on many of
the social problems of the day. '
Judith, by Arnold Bennett (Chatto and Windus
London) By going tack to the Apocryphal book
o , -Lichth for a subject, Bennett has produced a
.iv m three acts which has a close resemblance to
' W early Elizabethan “tragedy of . blood.”
spectacular setting is all that could be desired but
the deeply religious heroine seducing her victim to
ns doom and then murdering him, while she caresses
him, does not, make a strong appeal to the modern
sense of. the fitness of things. The characters are
ranlj diawn, but are not interesting; the dialogue
is only moderately convincing. The improvements
made on the original story are of the slightest. The
fbe y ifl a “v'? le i ha i Very I L ttle Wteniry value, though
S memorabl? ZZar haS made war ridiculous ”
The Wonderful, West Coast . bv Will Lawson (Wil-
son and Horton, Auckland). A little guide-book to
Ihe west coast of the South Island of Maori land
whieh has been written more for use than ornament
The author states facts, but does not linger over
descriptions. A few good illustrations give a hint of
what the scenery is like.
, Uarunya Mystery, by Harrison Owen
(N.S.W . Bookstall Co., Sydney). This is a mystery
3 ain which holds the attention well. The hero is
not the sort of person- anybody would care to meet
too often and Mabel, the heroine, is of the nice,
foolish kind. Ihe hero tells the yarn; and he and
the gnl are accused of murdering her father The
situation is distinctly unusual, as are the events
which follow; but the main thing is that the storv
keeps the reader in a state of nervous tension until
the shocking affair is squared up. ihe “Mvsterv”
should take a good place in the “Bookstall” ‘ Series.
.1 Servant of Reality, by Phyllis Bottome (Hodder
and .Stoughton, London). An unpleasant book The
doctor—a servant of the reality the war has taught
him—fails m love with Kitty, a lady of easy virtue
She dies during an operation for cancer, but it
doesn’t matter; -for her lover had intended to <Hve
her an overdose of morphia. The book holds the
attention better than it should.
The Price of Things, by Elinor Glyn (Duckworth
London). This cheap mass of impossible and rather
revolting Action has been published in America
under the title, “The Family.” The woman’s hus-
band wants a child he cannot have and sends his
brother secretly to his wife’s bed. The woman has
a son and finds out her husband is not its father
There you have the tiling, loud and lurid. A sub-
plot in which a German spy and a Russian and Tu k
are concerned is no better than the rest of the book.
.Stuff that is thoroughly bad, possibly in, intent, cer-
tainly in craftsmanship.
Moments of Leisure, by Ainby Thomas (McGregor
and Co., Brisbane). There is a picture of a nice
girl on the cover, but if she is the author of this
sorrowful stuff she should take up something else
to employ her leisure. Where the yarns are not
unpleasant they are very dull, and where they are
unpleasant they are duller still.
Any Soldier to His Son, by George Willis (George
Allen and Unwin, London). This is a little book
of very rugged verse. There is no poetry, no humor,
no skill. Some lines may have wakened echoes in
the hearts of English soldiers, but the whole thing
will leave Australians cold. The title is the best
feature of the book.
The Moon and Sixpence, by W. S. Maugham
(Heinemann, London). A stockbroker turns post-
impressionist and lives as an artist in Paris. After
that he goes to the Pacific Islands. An unpleasant
story, ramblingly- told. The hero is a dirty fellow
who won’t have a bath; in fact, the whole yarn
would do with a wash.
The Inky Way
“J.F.11.” (London) : Pretty well every-
thing Charles Dickens wrote is- now access-
ible' within book-covers, so zealous have been
bis admirers in ferreting out and collecting.
Hut there is one book he wrote which
is not yet available for public reading—the
“Life of Christ” compiled for the religious
education of his children. An enterprising
Yankee firm now threatens to give it to the
world, in spite of what the Dickens family
may say or think. Apropos, the gossiper
of the London Evening Standard says:—
The other day I referred to a little-known “Life
of Oh ist,” by Dickens, for which many offers had
been refused by his familiy. I am informed by
“C.R.” that the MS. was actually sold to a firm of
reputable publishers in Australia for £2OO by one
of the Dickens sons. The firm referred the matter
to tin Dickens family, and Miss Hogarth replied
that they could not agree to publication. Presumably
the £2OO was repaid.
Two sons of Dickens settled in Australia.
One, Ted, represented Wilcannia in (lie N. S.
Wales Parliament for six years. The other,
Alfred Tennyson, led a more Bohemian life
and wound up as a lecturer and reader.
If either of them did what “C.R.” alleges,
it isn’t likely to have been Ted. lie was the
baby of the family: for him father wrote
the published but little-known “Children’s
Bible.”
Talking about shearers’
libraries (B. 17/7/’l9). One was started at
Coombcmartin shed, live miles from Ilfra-
combe (C.Q.). during the 181)5 shearing,
and was kept going after the shed cut out.
It was well supported by the workers on
the run, and received Government endow-
ment. The manager of Baretfldine Downs
(C.Q.), being a practical man, knew that
better conditions ensured better work, and in
1898 he put up a building about 45ft. by
20ft. and furnished it with bookcases, tables
and seats. The weekly musical and literary
evenings were instructive and sometimes
entertaining. Many an intellectual visitor
had an interesting pow-wow there. The
Barcaldine shed library contains more (and
better) scientific works, and they are.more
read and appreciated, than the town library.
“J.F.11.” (London): The journalistic
romance of the war was the little paper La
Libre Belgique, secretly printed and pub-
lished in Belgium throughout the German
occupation, in spite of all the furious and
determined efforts of the Huns to discover
its producers and to suppress it. Its history
has just been issued in book form in
Brussels. Its editor and founder was a
veteran Belgian journalist of 74. Victor
Jourdain, who made up his mind to run a
paper, in the face of ail perils and obstacles,
that would help to sustain the spirits and
fidelity of his countrymen. His principal
assistant in the enterprise was a Catholic
priest, Father Pacquet; but a good many
other priests, also women and girls, gave
valuable aid in production and distribution.
The general belief was that it was published
in a travelling motor-car; but this authori-
tative book shows that it was struck off in
a lot of places, mostly cellars and caves. It
had six printers in the course of its career.
The first five were captured by the Germans ;
nevertheless the little mosquito paper came
out punctually as usual, and continued to
do so right up to the date of the Armistice.
“Copy” was concealed in all sorts of hiding-
places—bags with false bottoms, hollow
canes, cylinders of radiators, etc. Once the
Huns did succeed in locating the office,
seized all the printing materials and paper
supplies and arrested 61 people. To cele-
brate a “victory” a dinner was held in
Brussels, under the presidency of Governor
von Faulkenhausen. While the champagne
was still flowing a German officer, finning
with rage, burst into the dining ball and
threw upon the table a copy of a fresh issue
of the paper still wet from the press. With
marvellous punctuality a copy was regularly
found bv the German Governor on his table
on the morning of publication; but bow this
trick was done is not revealed so far. The
disclosure would probably result in somebody
being shot in Germany. An appendix to the
book is a roll of honor and a list of all who
lent a hand in running the most remarkable
sheet in the history of journalism.
Easiness, Robbery, etc.
“Leadswinger” : Re “Joe Blow's” remarks
(B. 7/8/’39).. The Commonwealth Bank in
London did “savor too much of military
officialdom.” Here’s an example. Two of
us arrived broke in a Tommy hospital. My
mate wrote to Bank for
a fiver and I wndiy’t/> a trading bank. I
got; my fiver; lte gofpui abrupt letter draw-
ing his attention' to 'Commonwealth Military
Regulation No. 9cB: he must get his C.O.’s
permission before lie could have his own
fiver! A transfer of credit took place when
he got to London. And here’s another reason
why the Commonwealth Bank became un-
popular. A Digger who was stiff as well as
A.W.L. stepped into the bank one morning
to get some cash. After handing in his pass-
book and waking some time (while an
official looked up the A.W.L. list) he was
politely asked to take a seat, lie walked
out a few minutes later with two M.P.’s.
* * * v *
“Phil Hamm": Two returned men who
had blocks in .a N. 8. AYales group-settle-
ment had their crops destroyed by fire and
subsequently threw up the sponge. Two
other soldiers were found to take up the
forfeited blocks, and were asked to pay the
debts charged to their predecessors, includ-
ing the cost; of the seed-wheat for the crop
that was burned. Among the items was £ll
for a cow, to which was added £5 for agist-
ment. Hearing of the circumstances, the
local Repatriation Committee took a hand.
On finding that the matter had become pub-
lic, the superintendent of the group offered
to accept a reduced valuation on many
items. The cow. for instance, came down
with a run from £l4 to £3.
* ■* * *
“R-B.T.”' : “Narrung’s” statement (B.
26/6/19) re the dangers of “arousing spite
in a petty official” of the Customs has my
support. For years I cleared goods ex the
M-elb. wharf, and early learnt that far more
important even than a knowledge of the
tariff was a suavity of manner towards the
autocrat in the Customs-box. Once run foul
of that official and your work is quadrupled.
The Department contains many reasonable
and courteous men; but the opportunities
are myriad for the jaundiced official. Even
though Customs officers (B. 31/7/T9) re-
pudiate the idea, every importer knows that
the latter type is to b-e reckoned with. Take
a simple instance. An old and reputable
firm has for years imported, say, a well-
known brand of sheep-dip powder. A con-
signment of 500 cases conies along; the con-
tents are clearly stencilled ; the invoice bears
a statutory declaration from the exporter:
the importer, guaranteed by a bank, through
its clerk swears on the entry the class of
goods he is clearing. Yet. if any irascible
official, who knows all these things, chooses
to, he can withhold the necessary initials
from the scrap of paper, hang up the shipment,
and demand that every case be opened.
If the importer regards this as unreasonable
he can certainly go to the “heads,” and most
probably win his point; but the official can
find endless chances to embarrass that firm
in the future. The importer knows what
these embarrassments mean, viz., heavy
cooperage expenses, delays in delivery, de-
murrage charges, and raging clients clamor-
ing for their goods. For these reasons he
often prefers to pocket a grievance.
**' * *
“T.A.”: Tell “R.S.V.P.” (B. 34/8/T9)
that “Vienna” chairs are not made here for
two reasons—(l) insufficient protection and
(2) local prejudice. We have, it is true, not
a timber equal to European beech for the
job; but we have plenty of stuff in the
coastal scrubs that will make chairs of the
square-seat spindle variety as good as any
imported. At the present time we are mak-
ing them in thousands, and doing the job
well considering that we have only been at
it in earnest about five years and started
with scratch teams. But there will be an
end_ of it all if the importer sells the goods
again at anything like old prices; and he
will probably reckon it quite good enough
to do it for a few months, even if he makes
a temporary loss. lie "will soon be able to
make- that up when he has killed the local
infant and got the country at his mercy
again.
* * * *
Adelaide Chamber of Manufactures has
celebrated its jubilee. It claims to have
been the first in any British colony when it
started in 1869. Samuel Davenport, the
first president, held office for 20 years; but
latterly a member takes the chair for’ two
or three years only. W. W. Forwood is
now the senior member. He joined in 1875.
and has had two terms as president one
last century and one this. The Chamber’s
lust exhibition of Australian products was
staged in ISto; there have been niaiiv since
then, and not one has shown a loss—a re-
markable record for a State which outsiders
are apt to regard as interested only in
wheat, red rust, chapels and stinkwort.
THE REAL TAX.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’ve got a week off and I need it, too;
I’ve a very important thing to do—
An intricate job demanding quiet;
So away from the city’s ceaseless riot,
W ith a wet bath-towel wrapped round my head.
From early morn till it’s time for bed,
You'll find me trying, my mouth set stern,
To make up my income-tax return.
I’ve got all the “papers” ; I’ve read them and
Not half, I confess, do I understand.
-My head gets woolly, my brain’s not clear,
So away to a calmer atmosphere!
At doing his duty one ne’er should quail
(There’s a fine, and a heavy one, if you fail) ;
So it’s me for the woods, where in peace 1 yearn
To make up my income-tax return!
I’ll master the thing in a week, I hope—
The schedule, instructions, etcetera —cope
With “statements,” “deductions” and “penalties” all,
Add up and subtract —the task might appal
The stoutest of hearts, but I’ll do or I’ll die.
In the latter event if my friends should ask “Why?”
I tried, they'll admit when the news they learn,
To make up my income-tax return !
VICTORIA.
EARDLEY TURNER.


*"
. *
e)
IHi
14
>2
£§
8 5* s* <>
•>
•> t
'•' •" w* ; " ; ' V: - %
•>". vv
■: X*M, >{>’; '
.-■ _L-S
•l 1 1
3 ' . !<:
»; ..£
m
■
.» >
» >
;■> »»
:2* :
r.
IMSl; ;
m
v
'• ! :W
m
¥A
;h:^:.4
■
■■m ■
m
M
m i
//
# /T
■ M j(Jr .
• ,s..
*
p <:
.
u.
ms
Wm;
L '•
' '
: •
K 3
S-' .• ■ ; ?5
■'■' ■ '■
A
A I
i*.
V i ■
/'
- '
I * fell -
I, •■ :Wzt£m!.,' .
~22
Crane and
Hoist Mote
Have a world-wide reputation for
RELIABILITY
DURABILITY and
EASE of ACCESS to WEARING PARTS
These motors have been designed to meet that
class of hoist service demanding a simple and
durable motor, with great overload capacity,
and with parts arranged to facilitate repair
and permit easy inspection.
They can be supplied for either
alternating or direct current,
with automatic solenoid brakes
mounted on motor frame, and
with shaft extensions either parallel
or taper as required.
f
Cr. Wentworth Avenue 8 Goulburn Srreer, SYDNEY.
Cr. Queen 8 Little Collins Streets, MELBOURNE.
AGEXTS
Cbrfsraww At ? cins & c °- ]Lt ‘ l - 88-90 Currie Street.
1 PERTH(WA) : cfiSAfth?* 8 r B PP Jw C i , f I Of Australia Ltd. Edward & Charlotte Streets.
I TAStiAntta . niiJi. I tki1n * & Co. (W.A.), Ltd.. “Mazda House,” Hay Street.
I iin-liw'.™®, Ol,ver > Macquarie Street, HOBART.
>LM ZEALAND: The National Electrical & Enginering Co. Ltd..
AUCKLAND. CHRISTCHURCH. DUNEDIN and WELLINGTON


f
He Can’t
Shed His
Coat,
but he would if he
could. High prices for
skins put his life in
constant danger.
VYINCHCOMBB,
CARSON never fail
to secure senders top
market results for
Rabbit, Fox and all
other skins.
CONSIGN:
WINCH COM BE, CARSON
DARLING HARBOR. LTD.
f
BULLDOG
GRIP
THI SEIF VULCANIZING
PATCH
Size PUNCTURE ,
BLOWOUT OR TORN PLACE 1
OBTAINABLE AT ALL GARAGES
PRODUCED ENTIRELY
IN AUSTRALIA.
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
THE GREAT BRITISH
RHEUMATIC REMEDY.
AND RHEUMATIC PILLS
The Famous Medicine that relieves
RH-UMATISM, GOUT, LUMBAGO, SCIATICA,
The Greet Discovery of the Age.
Purely Vegetable. Sure and Safe.
All Drug Stores. English price, 1/3 and 3/-.
Prout & Co., 229, Strand, London.
m
o
£
<
SSoO£
$
ce
This is the
Registered
Trade Mark
Of the best
place to get
your
Fishing Tackle,
Guns, Rifles,
Cartridges,
Tennis Goods, etc.
318 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
MARTIN’S PILLS
are sold by all chemists and stores. Ladies
recommend them. Be sure you get the
genuine with the signature:
MARTIN, Chemist, Southampton, England
ELECTRICIANS
We guarantee reliable service for
ELECTRICAL SUPPLIES
and
ELECTRICAL REPAIRS
An expert Technical Staff and up-
to-date workshops ensure prompt
attention to your requirements.
Motor-starters, Switchboard Gear,
Transformers, etc., quoted for.
Winding Wires, Conduit Fittings, •
Lamps and all Electrical Acces-
sories supplied from stock.
The Austral ectric Company,
97 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Branch Offices at Melbourne and Wellington, N.Z.
m
iFRALIAN
mm
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES— Various grades.
SOLE BELLINQ ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS!
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited,
"Collins House,” 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sydney Agent: Adelaide Agent:
R. N. KIRK, 25 O’Connell Street. A. W. I/EWJS, 62 Broolcman Buildings.
The All/
British
StaSBrcl
LIGHT CAR
The Car for the Owner-Driver.
Send your inquiry for early delivery to Agents:
I. PHIZACKERLEY, SYDNEY.
STANDARD MOTOR CO. LTD.,
COVENTRY, ENGLAND.
m
W»SHAa
• wvtsr
I«NtLY
808
t \
BY BUYING A TICKET IN THE
EIGHT-HOUR ART UNION
AND SPORTS.
PRIZES value £3,500
'Under sanction of the Attorney-General.) Drawn Nov. 1, 1919.
Ist PRIZE, value £750
2nd PRIZE, value £3OO
3rd PRIZE, value £2OO
and 397 other
Valuable Prizes.
CHANCE FOR 1919.
TRY IT. r'
Ist Prize in 1918 won by Mrs. Murtough, Ken- _ QKilKna
sington, Sydney. N.S.W., for modest outlay of tjllllllllg
GET A TICKET AND HAVE A CHANCE FOR 1019.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper, November 6, 1919. To
any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope a list of the results will
be posted. Tickets may be had from Agents Everywhere, or direct from —
Trades Hall, Sydney. ARTHUR W. YAGER, Secretary Eight-Hour Committee.
j. C. Ludowici and Son, Ltd., leather
manufacturers, etc., Sydney:—
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1912.. £3345 10 p.c. =£2832 £513 £7061
June, 1913.. 3565 10 „ „ 2832 733 7794
Dec., 1913.. 2127 8 „ „ 2266 7655
June, 1914.. 1719 7,, ~ 1982 7392
Dec., 1914.. 1851 7 „ „ 1982 7261
June, 1915.. 2023 7 „ „ 1982 41 7302
Dec., 1916.. 2399 7 „ „ 1982 417 7719
June, 1916.. 2243 10 „ „ 2832 7130
Dec., 1916.. 2832 10 „ „ 2832 7130
June, 1917.. 2832 10 ~ „ 2832 7130
Dec., 1917.. 3116 10 „ „ 2832 284 7414
June. 1918.. 3135 10 „ „ 2832 303 7717
Dec., 1918.. 3206 10 „ „ 2832 374 8091
June, 1919.. 3071 10 „ „ 2832 239 8330
Australian tanners and _ leather-manufac-
turers are experiencing considerable diffi-
culty in the matter of supplies of raw
materials. War troubles in various countries
and the demands of the armies have created
a world shortage. Local supplies have
lately also been affected by the drought,
and, to cap all this, American purchasers
operating in the market have hit up prices
from 75 to 100 p.c. The adjustments neces-
sary to meet the extra costs are not the
only troubles with which local manufac-
turers have been faced, for the holding of
expensive stocks with an uncertain market
ahead is also a danger. But what is clear
from recent happenings is that if the world
so badly wants Australian hides there must
be an equally good opportunity for manufac-
tured articles, if only our factories were
capable of meeting the demand and the
overseas markets were properly prospected
for the placing of the goods to the best
advantage. Instead, local industry now
finds that representatives of foreign manu-
facturers are snapping even the raw
material from under its nose. So not only
are the splendid opportunities for building
up an export trade in boots, etc., lost, but
the local market can be supplied only at
almost prohibitive prices. This is one of
the problems the Commonwealth Govern-
ment will have to solve.
Considering the difficulties of the period
it is not surprising to find that Ludowici’s
profits for the past half have shrunk slightly.
Still the results are considerably better than
a few years ago, when there were two
factions in the Board-room. Though since
1913 only £2530 has been tacked to visible
reserves after paying an average div. of
almost 9 p.c, p.a., the business is very com-
fortable nowadays. The industry is one
which requires a comparatively small outlay
on plant. Of the co.’s funds of £07,805 at
June 30, only £3lOl was in plant and
machinery. Stocks are the big item, £38,398
being tied up in this way. This amount
shows a shrinkage during the six mofiths,
and, considering the present abnormal cost
ot supplies, the co. is apparently now carry-
ing much smaller stocks ; but what is on hand,
the directors say, has been conservatively
valued. Including the employees’ provident
fund, the co. at the balance owed £4087
'and had £54,038 in more or less liquid
assets. Freehold land and buildings stand
m the balance-sheet at £10,070, but probably
the York-street freehold is alone worth all
that. Since the accounts closed the co. has
had a fire, but though it was a spectacular
display which threatened total loss, neither
stocks nor plant w'ere damaged to any l
serious extent.
* • • •
“Pollio” on the capitalisation of reserves:
I disagree with The Bulletin (14/8/’l9) as to
capitalising undisclosed profits. Retaining surplus
profits until you need to use them may be in itself
as legitimate a way of providing capital as raising
it by application to the public. But its effect on
the co.’s dealings with its customers is entirely
objectionable. If a co. exploiting public utilities
were compelled to distribute openly the whole of its
profit every year, it would not dare to make so much.
An excessive dividend would force it to reduce its
charges to the public. But the system of hiding
profits allows any co. to maintain excessive charges
against its customers without letting them know
that they are being fleeced. The only safe treatment
of a co. that exploits such public needs as ferries,
gas, etc.—indeed, of any co. to which statutes or
circumstances give a practical monopoly of any neces-
sary or public utility—is to insist on full publicity
with regard to its whole financial position.
But The Bulletin wasn’t talking about
“undisclosed” profits. It wrote about “un-
distributed” profits—quite a different matter.
The non-disclosure of profits is, of course,
objectionable. Often it is dishonest. That
is so obvious that it doesn’t require argu-
ment. The whole point is as to the legiti-
macy of capitalising profits that have been
visibly accumulated; and The Bulletin
insists that, so far from being objectionable,
it may be desirable—that the objectionable
thing would be to insist upon a young
business distributing its profits up to the
hilt. For it must be remembered that nine
times out of 10 the profits of the young
business are not in cash : they are in stock
or plant, and it is highly desirable that
they should be so.
» * * *
One lone shareholder turned up in. Laun-
ceston the other day to view the remains of
the Tas. Copper Co., which is in liquidation.
All that the undertaker had been able to
dispose of during the year was an assay
balance. Though the Tas. Metal Extraction
Co.’s claim for £14,818, alleged balance of
amount paid for future ore deliveries, has
been mentioned in the courts half a dozen
times, it is still unsettled. Tas. Copper is
an English co., and the question has been
raised whether t’otherside horse-hair should
not have jurisdiction in the matter.
* * * *
Arba (Tas.) for the half-year ended June
30 made a loss of £1897, owing chiefly to in-
sufficient water for sluicing. The output of
black tin was 39 tons from the main work-
ings and 21 tons from the easement section,
but working costs were 16.97 d. per cub. yd.
and 11.949 d. respectively, compared with the
old average of 6.43 d. and 9.46 d.


TW" ■
■
- -
.>r
*»
k' ‘-j* i, *"
»Bs3g
4
u
*—i
-Ml
■, ■
rv
2\
ui:.‘ .•<:
L]
w J
V.
>■’■■
■4 :•
;
4#«£ >^o£ A i * '* *%
-
I
m
m
l
1
mm
BL
IKE,
THE above illustration shows a Beale
sound-board being planed in one
operation upon a 36-inch planer. This
wonderful machine at the same time tapers
it from thick in the treble to thin in the
bass —a necessary feature for the production
of good tone. Beale sound-boards are made
of hand-selected, straight-grained white pine
They are built up from small boards, carefully
joined edge to edge: a coarse grain being used
in the bass, gradually becoming finer toward the
treble end. The ribs are straight-grained hr, and
are of a special form which keeps the sounding-
board in the convex shape necessary to good
tone production. Each board is protected back
and front with several coats of our own special
varnish. The better musician you are, the more
you will appreciate the Beale.
jSKo-v^oornLS,:
555 OeoxQG.<§t.
Crd/X
O
0
CT
O
OTJ3O
3T Svo't CXTV • _
41-47. X3?6v£ea_<ELr ££.
MiSSS&t 1 .?? 1 h k rSt ’ °t a ■ IS; ,v, e ,^ Goulburn, Wagga. VICTORIA: Maples, in all
Adelaide WlU “ ms Br ° s y Hobart; Maples. Launceston. SOUTH AUSTRALIA. John Evans Ltd.,
o’ q. Queen Street. Brisbane ; Kent Street, Maryborough ; Flinders Street, Townsville ; Rockhampton
Sydney Street. Mackay; Caxrns. WESTERN AUSTRALIA : Thomsons Ltd., at Perth. Kalgoorlie and Freemantle.


Holeproof
Hosiery
Holeproofs are made by
scientific methods, de-
veloped only in recent
years.
G) carers of Holeproof know
the comfort and con-
venience of always having
perfect Hosiery soft,
neatly-fitting, stylish.
These qualities are all em-
bodied in
“HOLEPROOF ”
HOSIERY.
Special methods of knitting
Holeproofs mult i pig their
durability.
If your dealer cannot supply
you, write us.
Indents and Wholesale thru
Walter Cathro Pty. Ltd.
50 York Street :: Sydney.
DRAWS
OUT
THE POISONS
which cause Barcoo Rot,
Bad Legs, Sore Feet,
Carbuncles, Boils,
Poisoned Wounds,
Ulcers, Bunions,
Eczema, Piles, and
those arising from Insect
Bites.
The Proprietors of
GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT
have an absolute confidence in its un-
surpassed merits. They know it to be a
safe and perfect cure for all skin and
blood ailments; and the vast number of
testimonials received prove this.
GRASSHOPPER positively
draws the poisons which produce
these maladies out of the system.
As a tonic, liver medicine, blood purifier,
and for those who suffer from headaches, the
GRASSHOPPER PILLS
are equally effective. Do not be persuaded
to purchase any substitute preparations.
.Sold by all Drug Stores and Chemists
throughout the Commonwealth.
ON A LINER, A YACHT,
MOTOR BOAT, A CHANNEL
STEAMER, A COASTER or
A TRADER
MOTHERSILL’S SEASICK REMEDY
is guaranteed to prevent and cure Sea Sick-
ness, or money refunded. Equally effective
for Train Sickness.
o
vS
, • -J l
SEASICK
has been tested on the English Channel. Irish
and Baltic Seas by representatives ofleadin
London and Continental newspapers, who
unreservedly endorse its unfailing power to
prevent and cure mal-de-mer.
“The London Yachting World” says: A posi-
sve cure for saa-sickness. Be sure it's “Mothersill’s."
No Bad After Effects.
AU Chemists, in Large and Small Boxes.
MOTHERSILL REMEDY CO., LTD..
Corner Clarence & Market Sts., Sydney.
INFLUENZA
Used In the Melbourne Hospitals
Brooke’s “Lemos”
The Purest Lemon Squash.
IE
%
■ ■■■■#■ fl ■ HIiDH DM ■■■•!■
For Reading
More than half the pleasure of reading
comes from the use of a good light, a
steady, soft, yet brilliant light, that is
restful and soothing to the eyes.
Laurel Kerosene “the soft, white light,'*
is ideal for reading. It deals gently with
the eyes of both old and young. Its
soft mellow glow protects them from
strain. It is the reading light your
oculist will recommend and approve,
The housewife also appreciates Laurel
Kerosene, for it makes lamp-cleaning
easy--no badly charred wicks, no smoking
chimneys, no sediment.
If you would know what eye-comfort
means, use Laurel Kerosene.
Laurel Kerosene
*oi
f<7
%
iM
*‘77»e soft white light ’*
Vacuum Oil Company
Proprietary Limited
A CONTRACT IS A CONTRACT
mu iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimmiminiimmiiiiniiniilillllllimi
trade mark
DYES.
THE reputation of our Pyramid Aniline
Colors has been established during- a
period when it has not been easy to live
ud to our standards. The quality of om-
Pyramid Aniline Colors is as firmly fixed
to-day in the minds of buyers as our slogan
“A Contract is a Contract.”
Every shipment of our Pyramid Aniline
Colors is tested to see that it conforms to
our standards before it is allowed to go
forward.
80
We will send our complete Dye Catalogue on request.
Specialists in the export of American chemicals.
Importers of raw materials for American industries.
BUSH, BEACH & GENT Inc.,
Maiden Lane, Holbrook Building,
New York, U.S.A. San Irancisco.
Cable Address (Both Offices) “ Beachfred.
BUSH, BEACH 6. GENT me.
New York ~ San Franc] sco.U.S.A.
THE TOUCH TELES
Glide smoothly, never grate .
Artists, Draughtsmen, Engineers,
Architects, Drawing Students, Busi-
ness Men—these are just a few of the
classes who buy VENUS Pencils regu-
larly.
MS
me
as
are not a luxury, they are a
necessity for the best work.
Made in 17 degrees, 6B to
9H, and 3 styles of Copying.
OF ALL STATIONERS AND ARTISTS’-
MATERIAL DEALERS THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALIA AND NEW V. LAND.
THE PALACE HOTEL,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OF PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
JOHN T. GLOWREY, Proprietor.
A small Melbourne bootshop display* the
cheerful announcement: “The Governor-
General does not deal here — that’s liis fault ■
Adelaide has only kind things to say
about one of its women who is just leaving
gaol after being in continuously tor 34 years.
She is the matron, Miss A. M. Cliffe, and
she had eight years' service before taking
her present job.
“Fax”: How tenderly one Government
and another watch the interests of Gas
shareholders! As soon as their dividend is
threatened the price of gas is raised under
the law. Other investors may be ruined,
but not gas shareholders.
“Seebee”: Re incorrect marking on Jap-
made dispensing measures (B. 31/7/T9). 1
heard recently of a shipment of clinical
thermometers from Nippon. Tested by the
Customs, the degree markings were found
to be in error, and the dangerous rubbish
was refused admission to the Common-
wealth.
From London Chemist and Druggist
(31/5/T9) :
Britain for several months past appears to have
become a (lumping; ground for chemicals like aspirin,
salicylates, acetanilide, benzoates, etc., and this
gives rise to complaint among British makers, as
the prices are getting dangerously near cost, especi-
ally for products like aspirin and the salicylates.
It is stupid to blame Uncle Sam, who is
doing it. The crime is at Britain’s door.
And if Britain’s established industries cannot
stand up against the dumpers, what earthly
chance lias Australia of starting without a
tariff that really means business?
Even in the generally disgraceful times of
Charles 11. the British public was familiar-
ised with the idea of compulsory assistance
to local manufacturers. A bill was before
i lie Commons to prohibit the wearing of any
dress material which had not been made in
the country. Most of the overdressed men
of the period had been in the habit of
getting their finery from France.
The arguments in 8. Aus. Legislative
Council for a proposed fourth Judge brought
out (1) that the strength of the Bench has
remained stationary since 1858, and (3)
that none of the present Judges have had a
holiday for years. An attempt was made to
appraise the cost of law in various States.
Figures of this kind are liable to be mis-
leading ; but, as far as they go, they work
out thus for some vague unit: S.A. ,Is. 7d.,
Tasmania 2s. 3d., Victoria 2s. 4d.. N.S.W.
3s Id., Queensland 4s. 2d., Westralia ss. 2d.
General Rosenthal, who wears more
wound stripes than any other crossed-swords
in the A.1.F., tells the story. A crowd of
Diggers were doing a lot of grousing about
delay in repatriation, so "Rosie” said to the
spokesman, “Anyway, when did you leave
Australia?” “Early in 1916.” “Why. / left
in T 4, and I’ve got to stop here till all you
fellows have been sent home.” “Yes,” was
the response, “and if I had your job I
wouldn't hurry ’em, either.”
Two recent criminals brought discredit
on a profession which requires efficiency
above all things. One (or two perhaps)
tried to burgle a Sydney bank with a shovel,
of all the makeshift weapons in the world.
Another was getting away with an inkstand
during the riot and looting in Melbourne
Government offices, and stopped quite need-
lessly to hit Premier Lawson on the head
with it. Therefore the hunt for him will
be strenuous, and the inkstand is probably
damaged. And in any case he hasn’t got it.
Won’t somebody start a correspondence
course of instruction in burglary?
“Printer”: I am dead tired of hearing
about this day baking which has been in the
papers for years, and which culminates in
tough bread five days in the week, and hard
bread the sixth day, and no bread the
seventh day, and 3s. or 10s. Od. or some-
thing per hour overtime. Who are these
builders of stony loaves that they should
have all the limelight? I demand day-
printing. It might be the finish of the morn-
ing press, and the day baker might have to
wait till the next evening for news of his
football match, but I stand on a great prin-
ciple. The law recognises the day-work
principle to some extent by paying over-
time to the night thief: he is liable to much
higher rates than the practitioner by day.
But I am out for complete abolition.
“R.S.V.P.” : Henry Bailey, Labor M.L.A.
for the potato-growing district of Port Fairy
(Vic.), has shed a ray of light on one patch
of the profiteering problem. When Port
Fairy spuds were bringing the producer
about £ll per ton the Melbourne retail price
was £22. The Vic. farmer has of late
shown some agitation over the fear that,
because he tries for the best market, he may
be regarded as a profiteer, and Bailey wanted
to put him right before the public. Still,
Ihere is a way in which Henry Hay whiskers
might show that he really isn’t what some
people say he is. The farmers’ co-op.
societies, when retailing , produce, could give
a demonstration of anti-profiteering by
charging what they honestly consider to be
a fair price. At present, if a citizen wants
to buy a bushel of anything from a farmers’
society, he generally has to pay the full
figure charged by the ordinary retail sharks
in the same business.' Bailey might enlarge
on this aspect of the case when next the
alarm is sounded on behalf of the cocky.
“Gleniris”: In readjusting the manage-
ment of its railways Victoria will have an
opportunity to consider the claims of the
rural producer to better business treatment,
notably in the safe transit of produce and
livestock. Goods are nowadays mostly car-
ried at the senders’ risk. If produce is
transported “at Commissioners’ risk” a
thumping charge is added, the Department
thus shoving upon the producer the respon-
sibility for its own inefficiency. Abolition of
this surcharge, with official acceptance of
liability in case of loss or damage caused by
the Department’s employees, might cause a
, slight increase in freights, but two good
things would happen. The farmer as a class
would benefit by carrying his own insurance
in every case at a much smaller rate than
under the present optional system, for no-
body believes that the “Commissioners’ risk”
business is ever permitted to mean a loss to
the Department on its annual turnover; and
there wouid be an immense increase in the
efficiency of departmental officials, great and
small. Of the two benefits the latter would
be immeasurably the greater in the long run.


f
rrr
i ■
111
II
■ •• : -
*rL"l f
/
s' /?
.... .
States
Studio
A
/
V /
OVER Country Roads or City Streets the Series 19
Studebaker is supreme. Ponder this claim!
It means that the Studebaker car fills the discrimin-
ating demand for an attractive and well-controlled car for
city use. It means that the Studebaker car has that overplus
of power to deal with the long hill or the rough-and-ready
highway, as well as the sturdiness to withstand the hard
usage of country conditions.
There is no need to tell of the beautiful exterior appearance
of the Studebaker. That can be seen at a glance. There is
hardly any need to speak of its fine upholstery and the riding
comfort insured by the long, underslung springs. These can
be physically tested.
But there is some need to tell of the merit of the Studebaker
engine; of its reliability; the freedom from trouble; its quick
responsiveness, that means so much in the vortex of the city
street; the accessibility; the mechanical excellence, which
means not only freedom from mishap, but the fullest
economy of fuel-consumption.
The Studebaker is not alone a beautiful boulevard car, dis-
playing its fine lines on the smooth city streets. It “tackles”
—that’s the word! —the worst hill or the roughest road with
irresistible power. Strength and beauty combined! Do you
know a fairer word for the Studebaker Car tham—Supreme?
STUDEBAKFR
Special Features
The famous Silent L-
Head Engine; the newly-
designed Gear Box,
swung on a Sub-Chassis
amidships; the Double
Thermoid Coupling For-
ward ; the Hot c hk iss
Drive; the Silent Spiral
Bevel Differential; Scien-
tific Weight Distribution
and Spring Suspension;
Magn e t o Ignition;
Leather-trimmed Khaki
Hoods; Goodyear Tyres
throughout, and Com-
plete Equipment.
Beautiful in Design.
T horoughly Modern .
Mechanically Right.
THE STUDEBAKER CORPORATION OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED,
Head Office for Australia: 177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. South Australian Branch: 1 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Turner Bros., 398 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Armstrong C. & M. Agency, Hay Street, Perth.
C. C. & M. A. Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
New Zealand:
Adams Limited,
Christchurch,
Palmerston North,
Timaru,
Wanganui.
■lll


1 Tin Cuticura Oint-
ment and 1 Cake Soap
Heal Rash On Face and Neck.
Was In Misery.
“I was in misery with my face and
neck which broke out in a rash. The
kp
rash was scattered. It used
to itch and keep me from
sleeping. The irritation
caused me to scratch the
rash and it caused disfigure-
ment for the time being.
“I sawthe Cuticura adver-
tisement and I thought I
would send for a sample. It gave me
great relief so I bought more and by
the time I had used one tin of Cuticura
Ointment and one cake of Soap I was
rid of the rash.” (Signed) Master R.
J. Ross, Inglewood, Queensland,
f How often such distressing, disfig-
uring skin troubles might be-prevented
by every-day use of Cuticura Soap and
Ointment for all toilet purposes.
Soaptodeanseand Ointment to heal.
“R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
Sold by dealers throughout the world.
The one
and only
is different quite
different from any
other kind of sauce.
Get a bottle to-day .
All Stores sell H.P.
here.
BURNS AIR
f
ƒ
One‘BEST’Light
Gives more LlgUt than
Six Electric Lights, or Ten
Kerosene Lamps or One
Hundred Candles.
Burns 90* Air \O% Gas
A beautiful, pure white, steady,
safe light* No Wick! No Urease!
No Smoke! No Odor! Hang or Set
it anywhere. Over 100 Styles*
These Lamps being Portable
they require no fitting.
Let us post you a
Best Light
Wall Lamp
complete, which gives 100-candle power light
for 42/6 Post Free
Send for Catalogue No. 821, which also
contains Hollow Wire System of Lighting
BRANDT BROS. LTD.
Air-Gas Engineers
236 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
NW
¥
This will Save Your
Linen Against Loss.
No article should leave your
possession without being MARKED
WITH
NAMES*
Beats Marking Ink. Any name
woven on Fine Cambric in Fast
Colors. Easily sewn on. Looks
and wears well.
Prices: 12 doz. 4/6, 6 doz. 3/3, 3 doz. 2/3.
Sold by all Best Drapers.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY
J.&J. Cash Pty., Ltd.,
85 Cubltt Street, Richmond, VIC.
Write for Style Book.
//?>
/ i
H
SI
G ROUGH
JTfEEL
FOR EXPORT.
Unfinished Steel
Structural Steel
Plates
Steel Kails
Concrete Reinforc-
ing Steel
Cold Rolled and
Cold Drawn Steel
Wire Rods, Wire
and Wire Pro-
ducts
Sheet Mill Pro-
ducts
Tin Plate and
Terne Plate
Pipe Products
Boiler Tubes
Tool Steel
Bar Iron
Pig- Iron.
We Can Make Immediate Shipment
from the East Coast and
from the West Coast,
either from our own warehouses at
Staten Island, New York, or from our
branch house in San Francisco.
Write for our monthly magazine,
and our Stockbook SB3, giving a list
of quantities on hand.
Cable Address: “Ardeencee,” New York.
Codes used: ABO 6th Edition, Western
Union, Lieber’s, and Bentley’s.
Rownson, Drew & Clydesdale, Inc.
68 William Btreet, New York, (J.B.A.
PJS3
The Birthplace of Lock Security.
Original Works, Newport,
N. Y., 1840^
cYALEj
THE Trade-Mark “Yale”
* stands for fifty years of
pre-eminent success in the
invention, development
and refinement of Locks
of every nature, and of
Builders’ Hardware, Door
Closers and Chain Blocks.
The proof of its worth is
shown in the demand for Yale
products which has expanded the
Yale plant from its “one man”
Lock shop in 1840 to the present-
day institution covering 24 acres,
with 4,500 employees in its 55
buildings.
Look for the Trade-Mark
“Yale”. It is a visible guarantee
of quality.
The YALE & TOWNE
Manufacturing
Company
Established 1868
NEW YORK
U.S, A. v
<yalD TRIPLEX BLOCKS
f
Special features
1 — Hoists twice as fast as a screw-geared block.
2 Continuous Hand Chain Guide, permitting rapid lowering.
3 Rated on long ton(224olb.)and tested to 50% overload(336olb.).
4 Can be fitted to any length of lift.
5 Spare parts available.
6 Hand and Electric Blocks available from stock.
FRANK R. PERROT, Sole Australian Agent
334 Kent Street, Sydney; 883 Hay Street, Perth.
L. BANNISTER, 39 Queen Street, Melbourne.
EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., 121 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
For our sick and wounded
BOYS. —When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Red Cross Book
Dep6t, Wynyard Street, Sydney.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
THE POETRY OF SYDNEY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Some poets write in rugged verse,*
And some the sonnets seek.
They do them well, they do them worse
To pay the rent each week.
They rhyme of gods, they rhyme of men,
Of dungaree and lace;
But best of all are triolets,
The poetry of violets
For sale in Martin-place.
N.S.W.
J. B.
“Chasuble”: Wouldn’t it help if the re-
turned padres formed a Chaplains’ Club, em-
bracing Anglicans, Catholics, Presbyterians,
Methodists, Baptists, Salvos, Jews and all
sorts? All the chaplains are animated by a
grand Anti-Little Pedlington spirit. The
Diggers made them think alike. Let them
usefully consolidate against the Narrows.
Baird is the first Vic. Chief Secretary
with Matthew for a front name. There
have been several Jacks, Jims and Bills, a
Bryan, a Graham, an Alfred, an Allan and
two or three Bobs; but no Lukes, aud the
nearest approach to a Mark was when John
M. Davies held the fort for a month in the
Munro Ministry from the death of Langridge
till the promotion of McLean.
As the people who were going to make
mincemeat of Vic. Premier Lawson failed to
substantiate their charges of brutality and
callousness against Scanlon, that senior
John Hop has been exonerated. Evidence
showed that in the recent riotous outbreak
Scanlon acted decently toward the Diggers
and winked the other eye at their short-
comings. Lawson’s head, at which an ink-
stand was thrown, has healed.
“Emeritus”: It is to be devoutly hoped
that before the next war some inventive
Digger will take the subject of field latrines
in hand. As described in F. S. Regs., and as
constructed and used by the armies in
France, they are an exact model of those
described by the late Caesar, who did not
invent them, but simply copied the methods
of the Roman tom-cat.
“F.C.”: What’s all this nonsense about
brick combines and timber combines “ex-
ploiting the soldiers” by charging ungodly
prices for the materials for soldiers’ homes?
I never had any great admiration for Tom
Bent, but at least Tom did things. It didn’t
take him more than a few weeks to buy
a brickyard aud get it so far going that the
combine became sweetly reasonable when he
wanted several million bricks for Flinders-
street station. And Bent kept his yard
always ready. There are still three or four
well-placed brickyards that could be used to
.the same effect.
From a survey camp near Mildura: —
Last evening (10/S/’l9), about 7.30, with an
almost full moon and a cloudless sky, an aurora
appeared in the S.-S.-East. The lower altitude was
about 25 degrees above the horizon, and the top
extended to about 40 deg. It was of a brilliant
reddish-green color, and two remarkable horns of a
whitish green extended almost through the red, taper-
ing to the top. It worked round from the S.S.E.
to the westward, finally disappearing at about 20
deg. west of south. An old surveyor tells me that
he saw one many years ago, and about three days
later rain began to fall and continued for three
weeks or so. As this part of the country is badly
in need of a wet, it may be a forerunner of good
things. To-day is cloudy, with every appearance of
rain.
The last has not been heard of the case of
John Blacker, ex-president of Mornington
Shire, who was let down lightly by the Vic.
Crown Law Department for misusing charity
money of which he had the handling. Hogan,
returning to the attack, came into collision
with Lawson and Downward. Downward,
who is well over 70, accused Hogan of
untruthfulness and cowardice, and challenged
him to come outside and say it again ; while
Lawson roared at Hogan for using “dirty
insinuations.” Hogan declined to “take on”
Downward owing to the disparity in their
ages, but expressed willingness to meet Law-
son. Finally, of course, there were with-
drawals after all three had had a night’s
sleep. When Arthur Robinson recovers
from ’flu Downward is going on with a
motion demanding an inquiry into the case.
“Smike” : Tchitclierin, the Bolshevik Com-
missary of Foreign Affairs, who has been
accused by cable of fomenting a revolution
in England, is the son of a wealthy Moscow
merchant who was mayor of that city under
the late Czar ; and his mamma was a per-
sonal friend of the ex-Empress Dagmar. The
young man, who speaks almost every Euro-
pean language and several of them wittily,
was First Secretary in the Bear’s Legation
in Berlin before the war, and used to cut a
dash in Court society. There he became
infected with the doctrines of Marx and
Engels, and was soon devoting an admittedly
fine intellect to the service of Lenin and
Trotsky. But with him Bolshevism is likely
to be only a fad. After he left the Univer-
sity he had a brief career as a vegetarian ;
afterwards, becoming afflicted with religious
mysticism, he tried to become a hermit in
the Gobi desert.
O.K. ’ recalls the meals of yesterday:—
The death of old Vincent Fasoli awakened some
Bohemian reminiscences of the cafe’s original loca-
tion in Lonsdale-street, but none of the press refer-
ences to Fasoli’s made any allusion to another
Lonsdale-street house which had a much wider repu-
tation. The Maison Doree, run by Lacaton and his
wife, or rather by his wife and Lacaton, dated back
to the time when it was possible to supply a satis-
fying French luncheon of four or five courses, with
a pint of Australian claret, for Is. 6d. Lacaton was
the best and busiest of cooks for years, never relax-
ing until the profits of the business turned his head
and inclined his heart to pony raging. Madame, tall
as a grenadier, managed the dining-rooms whilst the
Maison remained an institution, after which she fell
ill and died. A real boon to Melbourne’s Bohemian
circles the Doree was before the land boom and for some
time afterwards. Men only were to be met there, and
every one of them seemed to know that Madame
would as soon smack him in the eye as order him
off the premises if he made an ass of himself. The
late J. L. Purves did it on one occasion. He com-
plained of the cooking, and when Madame came to
altercate with the aggressive customer he said some-
thing about “canaille.” Whereupon the commanding
matron pulled off her slipper, and smote Purves
across the nose with it. After which she ordered
her solicitor to take proceedings for criminal libel
against the abashed legal gentleman, and he was
glad to salve her wounded feelings with an apology.


Spring is coming—
Greet it in the open
with a KODAK
You see more, enjoy more, LIVE more
when you make Kodak pictures. They not
only give you increased joy at the moment —
but form a delightful history of all that
counts most in your life.
There are no tedious details, nothing diffi-
cult or doubtful, to mar the making of
pictures the Kodak way
There is an Autographic Kodak exactly to suit your needs —
for Kodaks range from 40/=* to £l4/17/6.
The 3a Autographic Kodak for postcard pictures—x 31-
inches. Price £6/2/6.
The Vest Pocket Autographic Kodak is always useful —even
if you own a larger camera. Takes pictures 2| xlf inches,
which are easily enlarged. Price 40/-
There are Box Brownies for the children—from 10/6 to 23/6 ;
and Folding Autographic Brownies from 42/6 to 77/6.
Of all Kodak dealers and
KODAK. (Australasia) LTD.
Incorporating Baker & Rouse Prop. Ltd.,
379 George Street, Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne.
250-253 Queen St., Brisbane; The Valley; 37 Bundle St., Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth St.
Hobart; Ituthven St., Toowoomba; Flinders St., Townsville; Denham St., Rock-
/^ p l on; , ? ptical antl Photo Supplies Co., Perth; 109-111 Dixon St., Wellington, N.Z.
(Wholesale); ‘The Kodak Corner,” corner Eambton Quay and Willis St., Welling-
y-Z- (Retail); 3 Borne St., Auckland, N.Z. (Wholesale); 76 Stuart St., Dunedin,
N.Z. (Wholesale); 148 Lichheld St., Christchurch, N.Z. (Wholesale).
!k
■
**
fj
m
v-
%
0
Pfc
X.
>'../ ;', ■
Gain- Curd as •• LAKME.’
Hear the great GALLI-CURCl—the
new Coloratura Star who has made
an exclusive engagement with “ His
Master’s Voice.”
This is the first presentation in Aus-
tralia of this beautiful flute-like voice
which has captivated Rome, Madrid
and the cities of the two Americas.
7-33017—Laughing Song (La Bourbonnaise),
“Manon Lescaut.”
2-053128—Mad Scene, “Lucia di Lanuner-
moor.”
2-063006—La Partida (The Parting), “Can-
cion Espanole.”
AMELITA GALLI-CURCI (Soprano).
FULL HOUSE at the Opera Nightly
—many unable to procure seats.
The remarkable and sustained enthusiasm for Grand
Opera, as manifested during the present Sydney
season, proves that there is unquestionably a keen
demand for operatic music properly produced.
Are you fully aware that all of the operatic masterpieces ever com-
posed are rendered exclusively by the world’s most famous artistes for
His Master’s Voice’
CELEBRITY RECORDS
*—and that these records are so wonderfully realistic you could well
imagine the celebrities to be present in person ?
As the great Caruso says : “ They are magnificent.”
Notable among recent productions are the three famous triumphs by
Galli-Curci, whose wonderful voice has strangely stirred opera-
enthusiasts abroad.
Record and Instrument Catalogues and name
of nearest dealer on request.
The Gramophone Co. Ltd.,
163 Pitt Street SYDNEY.
“GRAMOPHONE”
Read. Trade-mark.
“His Master’s Voice”
Regti. Trade-mark.


A. Saunders’ Pure Double-cut Diamond Bar
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £5.
A. Saunders’ Pure Double-cut Diamond Knife-
edge Bar Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £lO.
A. Saunders’ Pure Double-cut Diamond Knife-
edge Bar Brooch, 15et. Gold, £l5,
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold Links,
set Pure Double-cut
Diamond, £3/10/-
A. Saunders’ Pure Double-cut Diamond Brooch,
loet. Gold, £4/10/-
A. Saunders’ Pure
Double-cut Dia-
mond Necklet,
-15ct. Gold, £2O-
A. Saunders’ Pure
Double-cut Dia-
mond King, 18ct.
Cold, £2O.
A. Saunders’ Pure
Double-cut Dia-
mond. Ring, 18ct.
JEWELLER,
805=815 George Street,
Sydney.
A. Saunders’ Pure
Double-cut Dia-
mond Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £lO.
Larger Diamonds,
£l5, £2O.
A. Saunders’ Pure
Double-cut Dia-
mond Ring, 18et.
Gold, £l5.
A. Saunders’ Pure
Double-cut Dia-
mond Ring, 18ct.
Gold. £7O.
A. Saunuers’ loot.
Gold Circle Brooch,
set six Diamonds,
£4/10/-
A. Saunders’ Pure
Double-cut Dia-
mond Scarf Pin,
Lsct. Gold, £25.
A. Saunders’ Pure
Diamond Boat-
shape Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £5.
Larger Diamonds,
£7/10/-
DIAMOND JEWELLERY
:
V/:
m
m
m
A. Saunders’ Solid Gold Waltham or Elgin Lever,
extra-jewelled movement, £lO, £l2/10/- £l5,
£2O, £25, £3O, £35. Gold-filled, 10-year ease*
£3/5/-. 20-year, £4/10/-. 25-year, £5/5/-.
Extra-jewelled, £6/6/-, £7/1.0/-, guaranteed.
A. Saunders’ Pure Double-cut Diamond Expanding
Bracelet, 15ct. Gold, £57/10/-
P
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold Pure Double-cut
Diamond-set Patent Expanding Wristlet Watch, full-
jewelled lever movement, £l3/10/-. 1 auger Dia-
monds, £l5, £l7/1.0/- £2O, £25, guaranteed.
f i iuu
A. Saunders’ Pure Double-cut Diamond, Single-stone
Bracelet, 15ct. Gold, £37/10/-
SEND FOR LATEST CATALOGUE.
We send all Jewellery per
Registered Post, Free.
A. Saunders’ Pure
Double-cut Dia-
mond Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £7O.
A. Saunders’ Pure
Double-cut Dia-
mond Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £5/10/-
A. Saunders’ Pure
Double-cut Dia-
mond Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Pure
Diamond Circle
and Spray Brooch,
15et. Gold,
£3/15/-
A. Saunders’ Dia-
mond Cluster Scarf
Pin, JGet. Gold,
£lO.
A. Saunders’ Pure
Double-cut Dia-
mond Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £l2/10/-
A. SAUNDERS
9
A. Saunders’ Pure Double-cut Diamond Bar
Brooch, loct. Gold, £4/10/-
A. Saunders’ Pure Double-cut Diamond Cluster
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £l5.
A. Saunders’ Pure Diamond Brooch, loct. Gold,
£4.
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold Links,
set Pure Double-cut
Diamond, £3/10/-
Largcr Diamond, £4/10/-,
£5/10/-
A. Saunders’ Pure Double-cut Diamond Knife-
edge Bar Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £2/10/-.
Larger Diamond, j 113/10/-, £5, £7/10/-
A. Saunders’ Pure
Double-cut Dia-
mond Cluster King-,
ISct. Gold, £25.
A. Saunders’ Pure
Double-cut Dia-
mond lling, 18ct.
Opposite
Railway
Station.
A. Saunders’ Pure
Dijlible-cut Dia-
mond Necklet, 15ct.
Gold, £2O.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wu Supply—•
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builder s’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS* HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE. MELBOURNE, VIC.
68* PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the \vo ,; l.
For our sick and wounded
BOY'S. —When you have finished with
this paper;, kindly post to Red Cross Boob
Depot, W ynyard Street. Sydney.
A SEASONED SHAVER.
“Many’s the Razor I have tried, but there's none
like the ‘Plum.’ ” So spoke a seasoned shaver, and
his experience is echoed by thousands of others.
Join the big crowd who swear by
THE- “PLUM” RAZOR.
PRICE. 10/6 —POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
The above makes a handsome present.
“Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/2 Tube, post free.
All the above Post Free. Send for our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
Tried and Trusted
The “PLUM”
Razor.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 12/6 per day, or apart-
ments may bo secured separately by the
day from 4/- and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all Particulars posted on application
to The Manager.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
BOOKS! BOOKS! BOOKS! FOR EVERYBODY!
The Book of Nature
A FULL, AND EXPLICIT EXPLANATION
OF ALL THAT CAN OR OUGHT TO BE
KNOWN BY
MAN and WOMAN,
INTEINDED ESPECIALLY FOR
THE MARRIED, OR THOSE IN-
TENDING TO MARRY.
By L. M. BYRN, M.D.
A PRACTICAL COMPLETE
FAMILY DOCTOR.
No such Complete Panorama of the Mysteries
of Human Reproduction has ever before been
given to tide world.
DR. BVRN’S ILLUSTRATED EDITION
(1917 ISSUE) IS THE ONLY GENUINE
BOOK. ASK FOR IT, AND TAKE NO
OTHER. PRICE:
TWO SHILLINGS & SIXPENCE.
POST FREE.
Live aj;d Learn, 2/-. How to Get Rich,
1/6 poste d. Dr. Lamartine's Silent Friend,
1/6. Nee - Donnelly's Art op Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, 1/6. How to
Dance, J./6 posted. How to Wrestle, 1/6.
Moll Fi -anders (a rare book by Defoe), 1/3
posted. Thurston's Card Tricks, 1/3. All
Zola's, including Nana, 2/6 each posted.-
Educatij a the Horse, 1/3. Ventriloquism
Made Ej sr, 1/3. Up-to-date Comic Reciter.
1/6 po -ted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/3. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 6/6 posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, 1/3, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(send for list). Tea Cup Fortune Telling, 1/3.
How to Make Your Will, 1/3. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 2/3. Tiie Australian Fruit
Gardener, 1/6. Quadrille Gall Book, 2/6. Par-
lor Tricks and Games, 1/6. Fortune-Telling
by Cards, 1/9. Life (a book for Men and Women
of To-day), 2/-. The Yoke, by Hubert AVales,
1/9. Tricks & Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/6.
Beauty's Secrets, 1/6 post free. Night of Temp-
tation, 2/-. How to Make Love, 1/3 post free.
Fowler’s Science of Life, 12/6. Australian
Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 4/-.
Mahomet’s Fortune-Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price 1/-, posted 1/3.
How to Become Quick at Figures, 1/3. Will
Power (Personal Magnetism), posted 1/-. San-
dow’s Book of Strength posted, 4/-. Car-
lisle’s Freemasonry, 6/3 posted. Daughters
of Ismael, 2/6. History of the Rod Flagella-
tions and the Flagellants (scarce), 15/-.
Practical Gas and Oil Engine Handbook, 5/6.
Motor Mechanics, 3/9. Motor Manual
(latest), 3/6. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 1/-
and 2/3. God and My Neighbor, 9d. How
to Read Faces, 2/-. Adventures of a, Sydney
Barmaid, 1/-. Colonial Horse Doctor, 2/-.
French Polishing and Staining, 2/3. Photog-
raphy Self-taught, 1/6. How to Make
Sweets, Jams and Syrups, l/'2. New Tricks
with Coins, 1/3 posted. House Painting and
Papering, 2/3. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
12/6. Australian Pastrycooks’ Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/6 posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/6. How to Read Faces
and Heads, 2/-. Soldering, Brazing, etc.,
2/3 posted. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/9. That Rascal Gustave. 1/-; 1/3 posted.
Camille, 1/6 posted. Piano Tuning and Repair-
ing, 2/3. Modern Etiquette, 1/3. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), 1/6. How
to Mesmerise. 2/-. Man from Snowy River,
4/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/3 posted. Parlor
Magic, 1/3 posted. The White Slave Traffic,
1/3. Every Man His Own Carpenter, 1/6.
Rf.ady Reckoner and Lightning Calculator,
1/1. Secret History of the Court of Eng-
land, 2/-. Letter-Writer Up-to-date, 1/6
posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, 1/6 posted. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-; 1/2
posted. Electricity Made Simple (new), 6/'-.
The Confectioner’s Handbook, 1/6. Sexual
Knowledge for Everybody (with plates), 6/6
posted. How to Shine in Society, 1/6.
Cabinetmakers' Handybook, 2/-. Complete
Bookkeeping, 2/6. Life of Deeming, illus-
trated, 1/1. How McDougall Topped the
Score, and Other Verses, 1/3. French
Self Taught, 1/3. 'Wannan's . Engine-
driver’s Guide, 6/- posted. Decameron of Boc-
caccio, 4/6 each, posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 2/- posted. Women’s Secrets, 1/-
posted. Gay Life in Melbourne, 1/- posted.
Secrets of Beauty, Health and Long Life
(50,000 sold), 2/- posted. A Bed of. Roses, 4/6.
All These Prices Post Paid.
Established 30 Years.
DON’T BE FOOLED
INTO PA YING MORE.
New Tricks with Cards, 1/6. Sappho, genu-
ine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 posted. Dr.
Milford's Midwife's Handbook, 92 practical
Send stamp for my
BIG ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
illustrations, 3/-. Aristotle, 5/-. Adam Lind-
sat Gordon's Poems, 1/9. Practical Palm-
istry, 2/-. Guide, to Auctioneering, 3/6.
Lovers’ Letter-writer, 1/6. All about Incu-
bators, 2/3. Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed,
Key to All Degrees, New Edition, 1/9 posted.
Vest-pocket Dictionary, 1/6 posted. Tokology,
10/6 posted. Ingersoll's Works, 1/3, 2/-. How
to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 2/- posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Wife, 3/9 posted. Bread
and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-boilers’ Assist-
ant, 2/-. The Wife's Handbook, 1/3 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, 1/- posted. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness
and its Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster’s Large
Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus.,
leather bound, my price, 20s. post paid. (Why
pay 3 and 4 guineas?). Bootmaking and Repair-
ing, 2/3. Dynamos and Electric Motors. 2/3.
Moore's Universal Assistant and Complete
Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 12/6 posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, 1/3 posted.
Henry Lawson’s Humorous Verses. 1/3. The
Age of Reason, by Paine, 1/3 posted. Rasputin,
the Monk of Evil 2/9. One Day, 1/3 posted. The
Wizard’s Manual, 1/3. Speeches from the
Dock, 2/-. Life's Shop Window, 2/-. Three
Weeks, 2/- posted. The Escaped Nun, 2/-. Six
Women (by Victoria Cross), 2/-. The Black
Prophet, 5/3. Tom Jones (Fielding), 3/-; Aus-
tralian Miners and Prospectors’ Guide, 2/-.
Adventures of John Johns, 2/6.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, the big book store, 67 §69 Market Street, Sydney miv.
<ar BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMON WEA L TH. -«1


f
REFLECT
THE LATEST
STYLE.
The smart dresser, who wants his Foot-
wear to reflect the latest style, likes
ABBEY SHOES.
We illustrate a choice Patent Golosh Bal.,
with dull Calf Legs, a smart, made-to-
order style.
Price 47/0.
A very distinctive boot for Dress Wear.
In half arid full sizes, and three fittings—
narrow, medium and wide.
Postage extra.
W'RITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY.
313 Georg'e Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE U HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL £500,000.
Fire Insurances « ft ' e .^ ed on J* 11 classes of
— Buildings, Stocks, I urni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
Marino RicLo on Wool, Merchandise,
Marine KISKS Hulls of VeBSelSf Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
cf various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
BARTIN IIAIGH, General Manager.
f
10/6
Genuine BENGALI. Razors.
Unsurpassed for Cutting Edge.
Made by T. R. Cadman & Sons, Sheffield, Eng.
These razors have a reputation of 170 years’
standing for excellent quality. They are unsur-
passed for durability and keen-cutting edge. Very
best steel, hand-forged, hardened and tempered by
special process. Hollow-ground to highest degree
of perfection. Specially Selected.
Full concave, file tang, fin. blade. For light
beard.
Full concave, file tang, Jin. blade.
Price. Post Free 10/6 each.
Or Two Razors, Post Free, for 20/-
MANUFACTURERS’ SELLING AGENCY,
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Missing Friends.
Re William Purves, dec’rt.
GEORGE PURVES, son of the late William and
Ann Purves. of No. 260 Lennox Street.' R ich-
mond, Victoria, last heard of working for Mr.
Synott, Macedon, Victoria, please communicate with
the undersigned. Or any person knowing his where-
abouts or particulars of his death please eommum-
' THE" EQUITY TRUSTEES COMPANY LIMITED,
85’ Queen Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
6th August, 1919.
tF JAMES CAMPBELL, son of Hugh Campbell, who
1 came to Australia with a brother from the neigh-
borhood of Crieff, Scotland, in 1880, will apply to
ATTHOW and McGREGOR, Solicitors, Brisbane, he
will hear of something to his advantage.
WANTED NEWS of EVAN THOMAS
LLOYD, who emigrated to Australia
from South Africa in 1913, was heard
from Quirindi in January, Junee in July,
and last from Stockton in November, 1914.
Please communicate with
JOHN LLOYD LLOYD,
Gumtree, Orange Free State,
South Africa.
Situation Wanted.
EXPERIENCED Australian Mining
Prospector, Lode and Alluvial Prac-
tice, returning from F.M.S., open engage-
ment October, in charge or Assistant to good
Mining-engineer; age 32 years, single, in
good health. Reliable, c/o Sydney Bulletin,
Sydney.
Amusement*.
Harry Kirkuril* Ti» oli i'l'rat re»
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
■pivoi.l TIIEAT It K, SYDNEY
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday, at 2.30.
THE OFFICERS’ MESS.
The Latest and Greatest Musical Play.
Plans at Nicholson’s and the Tivoli.
“J"IVOLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH D. McINTOSH presents
LONDON’S LATEST LILTING TRIUMPH,
THE LADS OF THE VILLAGE.
Prices as usual.
H
E It M ,\ .1 14 S T V ’ S. s v l> N IS V.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
NEXT WEEK’S PROGRAMME.
To-night (Thursday), CAVALLERIA RUSTICANA
and I PACLIACCI. Friday, FAUST. Saturday,
RIGOLETTO. Monday, MADAM BUTTERFLY.
Tuesday. CAVALLERIA RUSTICANA and I PAG-
LIACCI. Wednesday Matinee, LUCIA DI LAMMER-
MOOR. Wednesday Evening, FAUST.
VIIMSt.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
Qlt I 14 It 1O N TIII4AT It 14
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
RETURN OF THE
NEW ENGLISH MUSICAL COMEDY CO.
in
GOING UP.
Plan at Paling’s. Prices as usual.
A I, A C 14 T II 14 A T It 14. S Y I) N IS Y.
Sole Direction —J. & N. TAIT.
LAST NIGHTS.
HARRY LAUDER,
the World’s Greatest Entertainer,
and
INTERNATIONAL COMPANY OF ARTISTS.
Prices: 10/-, 7/6, 5/-, 3/-, 2/-
Plans at Nicholson’s.
KING’S HALL, Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 8.
RETURN OF
FREDERICK WHITLOW,
SOCIETY ENTERTAINER, from Active Service.
Plan at Paling’s. Assisted by Leading Artists.
u
N I O N PICT C It 14 T 11 14 A T It 14 S
THE PICK OF THE WORLD’S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYCEUM.
STRAND. GLOUE. LYRIC, EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC, GRAND, KING’S CROSS,
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
1411 MAJESTY'S TIIEATIIK. MELBOURNE
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
H
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the Exquisite
Musical Play,
MAYTIME.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
’ II 14 A T It IS It O Y A L. M 141.H0C ItN It.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
C. WILLIAMSON LTD. p esent the Famous Play
of Sentiment, Pathos and Humor,
LIGHTNIN’
Plan at Allan’s.
Prices as usual.
K
ING’S THEATRE. Al 14 L It O C It N E.
Lessees: BAILEY & GRANT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. & N. TAIT Present the Sparkling Comedy,
DADDIES.
Prices as usual.
Plan at Allan’s.
Amusement*.
HOYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
THIS AVEEK’S FEATURES:
JEWEL CARMEN in
THE FALLEN ANGEL.
VIVIAN MARTIN in
HER COUNTRY FIRST.
Prices as usual.
|y|.A.IKSTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
CLARA K. YOUNG
in
MAGDA.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
Plans at Allan’s.
LACIA R I U M. MELItO U R N E.
REAL ICE-SKATING.
GRAND CARNIVAL, SATURDAY, AUGUST 30.
Di Gilio’s Band.
BRITANNIA THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
|y| ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PA'IIIE,
WORLD and SELZNICK.
Government. Notice.
QUEENSLAND FOREST SERVICE.
A PPLICATIONS are invited from candidates for
the position of Investigator and Instructor in
Sylviculture, Forest Service, Queensland: Salary £3OO
per annum with range to £4OO.
Duties: —Sylvicultural and forest working plan,
research and instruction of forest students in
forest sciences.
Candidates should be graduates of a recognised
School of Forestry, or possess equivalent qualifica-
tion. Applications, which should be addressed to
the Under-Secretary for Public Lands, Brisbane,
Queensland, close 30th November, 1919.
W. GORDON GRAHAM,
Under-Secretary for Public Lands.
Lcgal Notice.
tN THE INTESTATE ESTATE OF JOHN WIL-
-1 LIAMS, late of Tobins, Oakey Creek, near Sofala,
New South Wales. Died 15th November, 1918.
The next-of-kin of the abovemimed deceased are
requested to communicate with the Public Trustee
regarding their shares in the deceased’s estate.
Deceased’s parents’ names were John Williams and
Mary Heffernan.
T. W. CARRETT, Public Trustee.
Culwulla Chambers,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
19th August, 1919.
Public Notice.
KALUMPANG TIN NO LIABILITY,
Kalumpang, Federated Malay States.
NTOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN THAT A DIVIDEND
IN (jhe 2nd) of Is. per share has been declared
payable at the registered office of the Company,
National Mutual Buildings, 395 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, on Friday, 29th August, 1919.
Transfer books close on the evening of Thursday,
21st August.
By order of the Board,
E. J. KENNEDY, Manager.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visaing Loudon
should read the British Austral-
asian, Ud. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia aLd news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Heading Room at the Offices, 115 High llol-
born, London. W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
Repeating
Autoloading
r
g
The remington umc
Repeating Shot Gun may be
used as a single or double
loader. When loaded to full
capacity it contains six cart-
ridges ready for use at the will of the
shooter.
The Remington UMC Autoloading Shot
Gun is manufactured under Browning pa-
tents. This gun automatically loads and
ejects, and five cartridges may be fired
with great rapidity.
These guns are favoured weapons among
sportsmen. Ask your dealer for further
particulars or send to us for descriptive
catalogue.
D. D. BRYANT. Australian Representation
\ Box 686. G. P. 0.. Melbouraa
m
C.'BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed.
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals<
d
WorksB Birmingham, Engfland
These series l of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box. *
Macmillan’s
Books on
Agriculture, £
The prices advertised are those ut which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by'the importin' t
bookseller.
Principles of Australian Agricul-
ture. By W. CATTON GRASBY,
F. Agricultural Editor of the
Western Mail, Lecturer iu Agricul-
ture and Fruit Growing, Perth
(Australia) Technical School. Fully
Illustrated. ss.
Science of Dairying. By W. A. G.
PENLINGTON, M.A., Science
Tutor, Auckland Training College,
New Zealand. Illustrated. 3s.
Dairy Farming. By Prof. C. H.
ECKLES, D.Sc., and Prof. G. F.
WARREN. Illustrated. Os. 6d. net.
Dairy Cattle and Milk Production.
By C. H. ECKLES, D.Sc. Illus-
trated. 9s. net.
Manual of Milk Products. By Prof.
W. A. STOCKING. 10s. Gd. net.
Milk and its Products. A Treatise
upon the Nature and Qualities of
Dairy Milk and the Manufacture of
Butter and Cheese. By Henry 11.
WING. Bs. net.
Productive Agriculture. By Prof.
J. 11. GEIIRS, B.S. Illustrated.
ss. 6d. net.
The Teaching of Agriculture. By
G. A. BRICKER, M.A. Is. (id. net.
Elements of Agriculture, Bv Prof.
G. F. WARREN. Illustrated. Os.
Gd. net.
The Principles of Agriculture.
Edited by L. 11. BAILEY. 7s. net.
The Principles of Agriculture. By
C. A. STEBBINS, M.S. Illustrated.
ss. Od. net.
The Small Grains. By M. A. CAR-
LETON, M.S. 10s. net.
The Wheat Industry. By N. A.
BENGTSON. A.M.. and D. GRIF-
FITH, A.M. Illustrated. 4s. net.
Field Crop Producton. By GEORGE
LIVINGSTON. Illustrated. 7s. Od.
net.
The Principles of Agronomy. A
Text-book of Crop Production. By
F. S. HARRIS, Ph.D., and GEORGE
STEWART, B.Sc. Illustrated. 7s.
Gd. net.
The Corn Crops. By Prof. E. G.
MONTGOMERY. Illustrated. 9s.
• net.
Farm Management. By Prof. G. F.
WARREN. Illustrated. 10s. net.
Farm and Garden Rule-Book. By
Prof. L. 11. BAILEY. Illustrated.
10s. Gd. net.
Manual of Practical Farming. By
JOHN McLennan. Ph.M. Illus-
trated. 2s. Gd. net.
The Farmer of To-morrow. By F.
I. ANDERSON. Ss. net.
Electricity for the Farm. By F. T.
ANDERSON. 7s. net.
Soils: Their Formation, Properties,
Composition and Relation to Cli-
mate and Plant Growth in the
Humid and Arid Regions. By
Prof. E. W. lIILGARD, Ph.D.
Illustrated. 21s. net.
Spraying of Plants. By E. G. LODE-
MAN. 7s. net.
Chemistry of Plant and Animal
Life. By 11. SNYDER. B.S. Third
Edition. Gs. Gd. net.
Elementary Chemistry of Agricul-
ture. By S. A. WOODHEAD,
M.Sc., F.I.C. 3s. Gd.
The Fertility of the Land. By
ISAAC PHILLIPS ROBERTS. Bs.
net.
Soils: Their Properties and Man-
agement. Bv Prof. T. L. LYON,
Prof. E. O. FIPPIN and Prof. H. O.
BUCKMAN. Illustrated. 10s. net.
The Soil: Its Nature, Relations and
Fundamental Principles of Manage-
ment. By Professor F. IT. KING.
Bs. net.
The Chemistry of the Garden. By
HERBERT 11. COUSINS. M.A.
With an introduction by J.
WRIGHT, F.R.11.5. Is. 3d.
Crops and Methods for Soil Im-
provement. By ALVA AGEE,
M.S. Illustrated. 7s. Gd. net.
Soils and Plant Life as Related to
Agriculture. By Prof. J. C. CUN-
NINGHAM and W. 11. LANCELOT.
Illustrated. 6s. 6d. net.
Fertilizers: The Source, Character and
Composition of Natural, Home-made
and Manufactured Fertilizers: -and
Suggestions as to their Use. By
EDWARD B. VOORHEES. A.M.
Revised edition. Bs. net.
Manures and Fertilizers. By 11. J.
WHEELER, D.Sc. Illustrated. 9s.
net.
Macmillan's Illustrated List of Books
on Agriculture, etc., will be sent post
free on application.
MACMILLAN §CO. LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.


Write
(STATE AS
EXECUTOR, TRUSTEE, ADMINISTRATOR, ATTORNEY and AGENT
Expert, Efficient and Economical Management.
or call for full particulars, CULWULLA CHAMBERS, 67 CASTLEREAGH STREET. SYDNEY.
T. AY. GARRETT, Public Trustee.
e*
O
L
BOORD&SO*
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
1
%
DT
. Svrift
Company I,td., Australasian Agents. 26/30 Clarence St.. Sydney”
Insure with AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED Head Office: Corner Pitt
\JW£ly 1 1 IsliVll 1 LfUn & Kina Streets, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: 50 Queen Street. Melbourne. 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
ACCIDENT INSURANCES EFFECTED.
PROMPT SETTLEMENTS. EQUITABLE DEALING.
SYDNEY H. CARY. Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE. General Manager.
■
LACE-COTTON UNDERWEAR.
POPULAR MAKE AGAIN AVAILABLE.
Peapes again introduce. the light, porous Lace Cotton Underwear which
every Summer has been in keen demand because of its coolness, its comfort
and absorbency. It is the ideal hot-day underwear because so open in
texture. Supplies being still limited we advise e.arl'' ordering for the
incoming hot days. This underwear is of English make.
LACE COTTON UNDERSHIRTS, sleeves —
PEAPES & CO LTD,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309 & 311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s Grand Opera
Criterion “Going Up’’
Palace Harry Lauder
Tivoli “The Officers’ Mess”
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
King’s Hall (Monday) Frederick Whitlow
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Mavtime”
Royal “Lightnin’ ”
Kind’s “Daddies”
Tivoli “The Lads of the Village”
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Glaciarium Ice Skating
“Lucia” (first performance on Saturday
night) struck Sydney opera-haunters as the
finest production of the grand-opera season
so far. Gertrude Johnson, the handsome
Melbourne soprano, sang brilliantly all the
time, and improved her acting as she went
along. In the great sextet her voice soared
clear above chorus and orchestra, and in
the mad scene she contrived to mix crazy
acting and sane top-noting in the right quan-
tities. Lois did a good, workmanlike job
as the unlucky Edgar; Filippini, as the
selfish brother, baritoned carefully, always
with one eye on the conductor’s hand.
Basso Caeialli, as the aged tutor of Lucia,
boomed majestically like a super-Dread-
nought coming into action. Browning Mum-
mery carolled meekly as Lucy’s bridegroom.
Her Majesty’s programme runs on thus ■
Thursday (to-night), “Cavalleria” and
“Pagliacei”; Friday. “Faust”; Saturday,
“Rigoletto”: Monday. “Butterflv.”
Going Lp’ arrived at Sydney Cri. last
week alter a tremendous season in Mel-
bourne. It is an attractive show, full of
innocent jest, and legs, and pretty girls,
and music which is like a dear old friend
to most of the audience. Alfred Firth plays
tjie part of the man who is an aviator in
theory alone and finds himself driven by
tile strong arm of circumstance to do a
solo flight after dark. There is a gentle
restraint about Alfred which is refreshing
after large doses of the cushion-bashing
comedians who can't be funny without
becoming dishevelled. Field Fisher is the
mechanic who instructs Firth in the art of
Hying—by demonstrations on the ground.
He presented a fine character-sketch of the
1 ankeefaed individual whose bull-nosed boots
and long lank hair are becoming common
wherever petrol is. But the star feature
of the entertainment is the dancing. Madge
Hlliot is one of the most brilliant, and cer-
tumlyc the han<lsom est, thing in her line
that Sydney has seen in years, and she is
we 1 partnered by Cyril Ititchards. The
eight show girls, whose dancing has helped
to make this co. famous, are as good as,
it not better than, ever. And the rest of
the ballet work is joyful.
Grade Lavers is very much the large-
■eyed ing&nue as the bogus aviator’s
ideal and inspiration, and she sings
better than most musical-comedy leads.
Cecil Bradley also sings well, and in
other respects suggests a heavyweight
Dorothy Brunton. William Greene, Dorothy
Purdell and George Willoughby distinguish
themselves. In fact, everybody does, more
or less. More particularly the unseen artists
who are responsible for the stage settings
and the color effects.
$ sjc >Jc %
"The Officers’ Mess,” now at Sydney
Tivoli,” would find the wine very flat but
for comedian Bert Clark, who ‘plays the
adroit young liar round whom the plot
circles like a whirlwind. The bright vaude-
ville pattern- of years ago has improved his
musical-comedy methods since Sydney saw
him last; but some of his twinkling success
is due to the supporting artists who feed
him so carefully. Vera Pearce is handsome
as ever, and her gowns are, very fine; but
she has become heavier and forces her
small voice. Marie Le Vnrre gets snap
into her work, and Celia Ghiloni and Lottie
Sargent provide some clever coinedv. The
show is well mounted, though the elaborate
“set.” in the second act cramps the stage
badly. There is a lack of memorable tunes,
and the orchestra thumps too hard. Some-
one should invent new “business” for the
chorus girls. They come on time after time
like a dry swimming class, and hunch one
shoulder till the onlooker almost begs for
relief.
*
Harry Lauder’s Sydney season ends at
the Palace next Wednesday. Anyone who
wants to lay in a stock of Scotch sentiment
and humor had better hurry.
“Going Up,” at Sydney
Criterion.
Cyril Critchards as
Hopkinson Brown.
Anita Stewart’s
beauty makes “Vir-
tuous Wives” a
sure draw at Syd-
ney Crystal Palace
and Strand. Hoyt’s
and the llaymarket
give the Canuck a
run this week in
“Private Peat.” It
has all the usual
war settings, in-
cluding the sweet-
heart from the
home town who is
on hand to smooth
the crumpled pil-
low. Same address
finds Enid Bennet
a slave of the ring
(wedding variety).
However, the gold
is melted when hus-
band No. 1 gets
burned to death,
and Enid has a
chance to try her
sugar-planter sweet-
heart. The Ly-
ceum has t h e
evergreen “R a f-
fles’’ as its attrac-
tion.
N .- s -W* Parliament was re-opened last
week. The arrival of the hard-working (rover-
nor was signalled by the explosion of 21
guns ; the “Jacks,” as the Diggers call them,
provided a guard of honor; and there was
a tremendous amount of gold braid and
white horsehair in evidence—decorations
which look oddly incongruous in the star-
ing light of a fine Spring day. The spec-
tacle is a boon to the domestics in the
boarding-houses of Macquarie-street • and
here and there it gives a dentist’s victim
momentary surcease from suffering But
otherwise it might just as well be cut out.
A show of another sort:—
Denison Miller, Governor of the Commonwealth
Bank, issued invitations last week to a little art show
of his own on the ninth floor of his great stone
money-box. When he started work amongst the
ledgers long ago Mr Miller never dreamed that art
would one day come into his job. But the world-
war has altered all things, and it takes a blaze of
advertising to find millions of money. So there was
the quiet grey-haired banker pointing out the effect-
ive color-schemes in his collection of American,
English and Australian posters, each with its stirring
appeal to the bank account. The new Australian
poster work for the Peace Loan of £25,000,000
stands comparison with the best of the overseas art;
and some of it is very fine indeed.
“Lads of the Milage,’’ although still in
the working-up’’ stage of its career at Mel-
bourne Tivoli, can be already judged as a
wordy, witless undertaking which was not
worth while. “The Officers’ Mess” was a
gay and sparkling comedy by comparison.
If the world needed any further reminders
of the war for the present, it certainly
wanted something brisker than the conver-
sations of ’Erb and Bert, which have hardly
a joke to recommend them; and the scene on
the quarter-deck of a ship, which bears the
same old German spy, the important des-
patches, the unintimidated girl and the rest
of the working staff to Bagdad, lias no air
of freshness to redeem it. From the begin-
ning of the show, where the cinematograph
comes in, to the Caliph’s palace at Bagdad,
with its thin suggestions of “Kismet” and
-0 bygone pantomimes, there is no smack
of novelty in the proceedings. “The Lads”
shriek aloud for working-up and cutting
down. The voice of the new tenor, Ald-
ridge,. wins more respect than the ditties
it delivers, and a new lady, Nell Flemming,
sings a dirgy ballad daintily. Also a new
pair of ballroom dancers are stated to intro-
duce the real jazz, but thev suffer from
coming very late in the day with their class
of strictly-respectable duet. Clarice Mard-
wicke really gets the two best chances to
“Maytime” at Tier
Majesty's, Melbourne.
Leslie Holland as
Matthew Van Zaudt.
shake things up
with song and
catchy chorus, and
considering h e r
limited vocal equip-
ment she does very
well, a remark that
applies to Florence
Fox in a lesser de-
gree, and to young
Jean Keith, whose
legs, whether in
action or repose,
are a beauteous
pair of apologies
for her irrelevant
appearances. Of
Billy Kego it may
he remarked that
his crude grotes-
querie is justified
by the circum-
stances. In a
humorous show
Billy can be trying
at times, but in
this lie is nlwnvs
welcome, on account of the show’s short-
comings.,
Maytime,’ which arrived at Melbourne
Majesty’s on Saturday, reveals in the man-
ner of "Milestones” how boys become grand-
-1 cithers in two or three hours. The informa-
tion is conveyed in four pictures covering a
period of nearly SO years, the first, of 1840,
showing the festive youth of the one j’aunty
character whose bonhomie carries him gaily
to the end of the tale. This delightful per-
sonage, Matthew Van Zandt, born to a
placid butterfly existence, carefully marries
money in every chapter and totters up
gamely for further punishment as an
amorous classic in 1917. His former pal,
Richard Wayne, and Wayne’s old sweet-
heart, Ottilie Van Zandt, have faded out as
grandparents many years before, while his
other cousin, Claude, who threatened to out-
last him, is a whisky-sodden corpse in his
yery early history. But the aged Matthew
collars his partner for another whirl of
happiness, unperturbed by his crowding
memories and almost unconscious of the
attachment between the grandchildren of his
dim friends. There is agreeable singing
in Maytime and a spread of coryphees like
a clesign by Degas; but those sedate features
will hardly regale an audience accustomed to
the stir of rags and jazzes and the panting
proximity of the Exquisite Eight.
Leslie Holland, as Matthew Van Zandt
carries the burden of four wives in a manner
that even in 1840 foreshadowed his 1917.
of Style is , always a bit elder]v’
is most effective as the ruin of ninety, his
performance dipping backwards down a
gentle gradient to the rather flat young
blood of the time of crinolines. Reginald
Roberts is the reverse, but worse, as the
sentimental Wayne His best period is his
hist; bathos finally suffuses his utterance
and turns it into an ornate sob. Sidney
Stirling dabbles formally in wickedness as
the superior Claude, while Phil Smith fusses
bneny as an auctioneer and quickens
pulse of the show. Colonel Yan Zandt. bv
PantocK, aimost amounts to a mutual eclipse.
John Ralston is. hearty enough as P. T
Barnum, and Olive Godwin has the poise
tor Madame Delphine. Addie Lennard man-
ages an occasional sparkle as the over-
“ Maytime,” at Her
Majesty's, Melbourne.
Phil Smith as Mr.
Hides, the auctioneer.
matured Matilda,
and Florence
Young swaggers in
the burlesque
clothes of Mat-
thew’s third mis-
adventure in mat-
rimony. Maie
Baird, as the pros-
pective fourth, sug-
gests the sprinkle
of cayenne that
tesusc itates a
jaded palate, and
the little lady also
dances charmingly
in the Night Club
scene of ’55.
Gladys Moncrieft’s
skilful portrayal of
the three ages of
Ottilie shows the
surprising develop-
ment of the his-
trionic faculty in a
singer regarded as
dead to any dra-
matic feeling. The
actress has particu-
larly rounded off
her angles, and
strengthened her voice in the upper register,
ller warbling throughout is very good.
About Daryl Lindsay's show:—
A feeling ior character and a consciousness of the
mud and the mess make Daryl Lindsay’s sketches at
the Decoration, Collins-street, a very vivid record of
war. Limlsai has robbed the wickedness of the
romance and heroism'that ’have been painted into
it. JXis trenches are the dinkum, doleful nits where
rats are frequent and dead men lie. His Diggers are
also the humble realists who never learnt to fall
like the hero in “Maritana.” The atmosphere and
hurry of battle are strongly suggested in the inquisi-
tive ’planes and brooding guns, and there is some-
thing like a creed and a criticism in his studies of
captured Huns. Looking at these unsparing pic-
tures, relentless in their revelation of cranial de-
generacy, one can see in Fritz’s shambling submis-
sion, all iiis Frightfulness expelled, a sudden recog-
nition of moral inferiority. Lindsay has caught his
Germans off their guard, and his sketches are valu-
able on that account. His water-colors of view-
presumably in England are almost shocking in the
contrast of their peace and quiet. Yet the dancing
color and happy vision of the artist soften the for-
mality of several scenes.
Lightnin’ continues to leave an aroma of
whisky in his wife’s unimpeachable pub at
Melbourne Royal.
* * :]:
“Daddies,” at Melbourne King’s, cdh-
tinues to appeal plaintively to the very
young and the rather old, with two matindes
a week. The merriment of the mild bache-
lors is a little less labored than at first,
custom having inured them to their task.
Also,' the benevolent bald head of bachelor
Bryant has lost some of its unnatural shine,
and his muffled cry to the Deity when
Mrs. Audrey declares that all children are
pretty and good seems to burst from a heart
that has been brooding over the question
for weeks.
William S. Hart has started a big offen-
sive on lower Manhattan. In “Branding
Broadway,” shown at Hoyt’s Melbourne
House this week, he has reached all his
objectives and continued his advance, fol-
lowed by a cloud of stretcher-bearers.
Vivian Martin, long given to dilly dalliance
with tame flapper characters, has grown up
and become a spy-hunter in the patriotic
“Her Country First.” Jewel Carmen’s motto
is “Jewel First and Always”; so when
poverty threatens, the beauteous gem
sparkles on a capitalist’s waistcoat. Further
particulars of Miss Carmen’s hectic career
can be gathered from “The Fallen Angel.”
Adelaide, with evening trams restored, is
making up for time lost, and is thronging to
hear “Nothing but the Truth” at the Royal.
The play is not remarkable, but the public
accepts the excellent players as friends. At
the Tivoli is a piece with more backbone,
the old “Officer 066.” Hilary and Nodin
do not quite make one forget Niblo and
Sterling, but they are sound. Tom Cannam
and Charles Brown contribute good char-
acter-sketches in this season, which is a
plucky Mclntosh attempt to accustom Tivoli
audiences to light comedy, with mostly home-
grown talent. At the Majestic tne boneless
male Fayne partner is the chief new item,
and Ward Lear’s vocal fowlhouse raid is
the best thing he does. In the second part
Lola Hunt is the main prop of a Manless
Isle to which come Harry Burgess hud
other fun-makers. At the Town Hall
McEwan is hypnotising all-comers.
“LUCIA DI LAMMERMOOR.”
In a lioose among the heather, where you get the
Scottish weather
•Which the Scotchmen mix with whisky, lived a
lassie sad and pale,
And she loved a dashing neighbor, one who never
tossed the caber,
Hated bagpipes, kilts and whisky, and could pitch
a lover's tale. „
lake an angel he could holler,, and he wore a fine
lace collar
With a splendid suit of velvet and long boots above
his knees.
But he didn t suit her brother, and she had to wed
another—
-Not a heavy, scowling villain with his conscience
ill at ease,
But a gentle, fluting tenor who was mild as new-
born cheese.
It was managed with a letter (even 1 could forge
a better),
But the poor, deluded maiden took her brother’s
poison bait,
And the instant she consented, lo ! the marriage was
cemented,
For the bridegroom with the gentry were assembled
at the gate.
Maybe Scott (the late Sir Walter) didn’t rush her
to the altar
In the Waverley romances, but an opera has to trot;
So poor Lucy was a missus when her lover came for
kisses
And declared (in good Italian) that (lie marriage was
all rot,
Lucy’s brother an excrescence and her mild young
'groom a blot.
Lucy tried to beg his pardon, but lie spurned her.
It was hard on
One so lovely, young and simple. Then he cast her
on the floor,
And the guests, instead of flinging chairs and tables,
started singing.
While the uninvited lover never ceased to rage and
roar.
(All the Highland press was shedding pars about “a
quiet wedding,”
Which, of course, was also “pretty,” but the facts
were as I say.)
When the bridal couple vanished, care and trouble
were not banished,
For the lady stabbed her bridegroom in a neat, artistic
way—
Quite regardless of the p.n.’s that her brother hoped
to pay.
’Twas a mad girl, fresh and hearty, burst upon the
evening party,
With her hair down and a dagger smeared with
Scotland’s bluest gore.
Xo guest ventured to restrain her, or control her, or
detain her
When she whooped about her troubles ere she died
upon the floor.
Lover Edgar, sadly strolling in the churchyard, heard
bells tolling,
Guessed the reason, sang his sorrow, drew his little
fountain-pen,
And the village undertakers, filing in like silent
Quakers,
Didn’t stop 1 him suiciding, so they got the job
again.
And the funerals were over ere the clock struck half-
past ten.
N.S.W.
KODAK.


V
<2
S)
13
is the Price of this
MURDOCH Soft Felt,
and it is superb value at that figure. Just the hat smart dressers need for these
bright Spring days.
The verv latest in style and shape, with cut or stitched edge—in Greys, Green
Brown, Slate. Navy and Black, with self or black bands. Also in newest Ameri-
can shapes with narrow bands hats that merit your attention.
13/6. Postage Bd. extra,
Call and try on your size to-day or write Desk R.
Murdoch's
in Park
St. Ltd.,
Sydney
Complete Outfitters for Men and Boys.”
I
9ct., £lO, £l4.
loct., £l7/10/-
Oct. £l5.
15ct. £25,
Gold Cigarette Cases.
The Firm carries a large selection of 9-carat and 1 5-
carat Gold Cigarette Cases, plain and engine-turned,
and of finest quality and finish.
They are of substantial weight of gold, and range in
s : .ze from the very smallest, suitable for ladies’ use,
to the largest double-row cases for men.
Especially heavy cases in Morocco Silk-lined Cases
for presentation purposes.
Selections sent on Approval to any Address in the
Commonwealth.
film. ®rummonb & Co
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
iiiwiiifiiiiiiiiiiiiHinmniiniiiiiiiiHiiiijiiiiMniimiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiimniiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiriiiininiiiifimiiiriiiiitiiimiHmiiiiiuiuiminiiin
Electric Meters
and Instruments
H I: ■
»,v ■
frrf
:V' 'A*
:
''S,7fVR
■ «)
Meters and Instruments of all types are designed,
manufactured, and tested at Trafford Park,
Manchester, by the British Westinghouse Electric
and Manufacturing Co., Ltd.
There are sufficient types for you to select one
exactly suited to your requirements whether for
switchboard or portable use.
Thev are sensitive without being delicate and
perfectly dead beat.
They embody all the latest improvements in their
design and construction. They are given a high
grade finish and present a pleasing appearance.
They combine ideal simplicity with permanent
accuracy, unimpaired by temperature changes,
throughout a long life.
Portable types are compact and light, in neatly
finished dust-proof cases.
The accuracy of Westinghouse meters is a safe-
guard against loss of revenue and their use reduces
inspection and maintenance costs to a minimum.
The highest grade of measuring instruments is
the only grade for your purpose.
SEND YOUR ENQUIRIES TO NEAREST OFFICE.
t
Manchestef
AUSTRALIA N OFFIOES:
84 William Street, Melbourne. 14 Martin Place, Sydney.
• AGENTS:
ELDER, SMITH & CO„ LIMITED,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Perth.
Agents in New Zealand : Turnbull and Jones. Ltd.,
Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, and Dunedin.
l!i!iHinfiiiiiiiiiiininHiii»iiiiiii!imiiimiiiinii!iiiiHiiiiwiiiifiiiiniiiniriiiiiiimuiiiiHiii!iimiiii|
MAXWELL TRUCKS.
THE same principle is involved in building Maxwell Motor
Trucks that has made Maxwell Motor Cars proverbial
throughout the world for their performance and economy.
£nfrp
npa
20
The Maxwell 30cwt. Truck is built upon an extremely simple
design—easy to build and built well. Easy to operate and repair
without the need of calling in an expert. Economical of petrol,
tyres and spares, and yet built to carry its full load under all
ordinary road conditions.
A demonstration of the Maxwell Truck will convince you that
it is the best investment you can make in truck equipment.
Magneto, Worm Drive, 10-foot loading space. Electric lights
and generator. Right- or left-hand drive optional.
MAXWELL MOTOR CO., Inc.
OF DETROIT, MICH.
John D. Williams & Company,
Export Distributors.
2 Rector Street, New York.
Cable Address: “Igandum—New York."
el
More miles per gallon.
More miles on tyres.
Messrs. Clutterbuck Bros. Ltd.
26-38 City Road, Sydney.


ASK YOUR STOREKEEPER FOR
I
THE. PERFECT FINISH FOR FLOORS.
“PERFECT” because they possess the three essential qualities:
Supreme Durability, withstanding: the extra hard wear floors receive; free working consistency that
requires no skill in application; and most artistic in'finish.
FINE
SUPER
TAIBMANS LIMITED
SUPERFINE
VARNISHES
232 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
492 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
AGENTS:
QUEENSLAND .. CHAS. W. RILEV, Charlotte Street, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA .. L. G. ABBOTT & CO., Chesser Street. ADELAIDE.
NEW ZEALAND .. WILSON & SHAW, Harris Street, WELLINGTON.
• 3!
m
m
Ttffbat«2
its°s
•X
Lo*°°
.
H
L_T
FREE
TRIAL
BOTTLE
Disorders
of Digestion.
Catarrhal, Fermentative, Ulcerative.
Angier’s Emulsion exercises soothing, lubricating,
antifermentative effects throughout the entire digestive
tract. That is why it is so valuable in affections of the
stomach and intestines. It soothes and cleanses the
mucous membrane, allays irritation, fermentation,
catarrh, ulceration. It restores tone to all the digestive
functions and it promotes normal healthy action of the
bowels. Prescribed by the medical profession for
twenty-four years, it has proved its value in many
obscure digestive and bowel disorders.
Send name and address, *d. postage, and mention this paper.
ANGIER CHEMICAL CO., LTD., 233 Clarence St., Sydney, N.S.W.
MOET &
CHANDON
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
[?]
POVERTY
POINT
“0.K.” : In their notices of Leoncavallo’s
death Melbourne Herald put “L’Amico
Fritz” down to the dead man's account, and
associated him with “La Boh&me”; while
the Argus spoke of the latter as the fourth
of his opera productions. Such mistakes in
journals that print furlongs of pi-etentious
criticism of music and musicians must be
read to be thought possible. Any mere
bloke with an ear for Italian opera could
tell the Argus that “Bohhme” is own
brother in musical blood to “Butterfly,” and
Puccini must have composed them both.
The Herald’s confusion of Leoncavallo
with Mascagni as the author of “L’Amico
Fritz” is more pardonable, seeing that the
names of the rival composers have so long
been linked in the double bill, “Cavalleria”
and “Pagliacci.” “L’Amico Fritz” was once
produced in Australia—by the co. which
George Musgrove sent to his then partner
Williamson, to play the short operas, one at
a time, in conjunction with the Blue Ballet.
It was young Mascagni’s second effort, but,
like his subsequent attempts to repeat the
“Cavalleria” success, it fell flat. It was too
“GOING UP,” AT SYDNEY CRITERION.
Mr. Street (Alfred Firth) meets his in-
structor in aviation (Field Fisher).
tame entirely. All the same, Pietro
Mascagni ranks as the founder of the new
school of ‘‘broken-melody” opera. His prize-
winning work, into which he had to
interpolate an Ave Maria as Inter-
mezzo, in order to bring it within the
conditions of a one-act opera, was the
forerunner of “Pagliacci” and the inspira-
tion of “Boh&me.” Moreover, veteran
Verdi, whose “Otello” was only three
years older than “Cavalleria,” confessed
himself struck by the originality of “these
young fellows, brimful of talent” —Mascagni
and Leoncavallo. That the young fellows
scored only one real success apiece, and
were losing fame whilst old man Verdi was
preserving his laurels, is one of the most
remarkable facts in musical history.
“Ike Pagliacci”: If, as “Talord” (B.
14/8/19) insinuates, Frank Rossmore died
in Adelaide, it was the ghost of the fine old
performer that appeared at Newtown
Majestic, Sydney, on August 16, as “Billy
the, Tough (one of the gang).” Frank, by
the way, is a cub compared with Hugh
Power. Latter was brought to this country
by George Coppin after a long career in
England and America, and appeared with
Brooke, Miln, Mrs. Brown-Potter, Julius
Knight, Eugenie Duggan and Kate Howard.
The J.C.W. firm is holding in reserve a
comedian, Theodore Leonard, who came from
S’Africa with a great reputation and was
engaged for leading funny-man business.
Seemingly Leonard would be playing Phil
Smith’s parts if Smith were not here.
Leonard’s long continued unemployment is a
reminder of how George Lauri remained in
the background after his arrival in Aus-
tralia while the well-beloved Billy Elton
w r as finishing his term with Williamson.
“Ox”: In New York the play has gone
to bed. Pyjamas and nighties are all over
the stage. “A Sleepless Night” and “Please
Get Married” both deal with intimate honey-
moon passages, and “Keep it to Yourself ’
has a bed in view at curtain-rise and two
people in it within half an hour. These
pieces won’t get the advertising lift in Aus-
tralia that the New York dailies gave them.
The Herald of that city remarked in its
notice of one: “Then entered the husband.
Wow!" The day the S. M. Herald says
"Wow /” I will eat the whole edition, ad. by
ad. When one considers this mingling of
night-clothes on the stage, “the great bed-
room drama” of our past, “The Bad Girl
of the Family,” seems respectable enough
for pew-openers. Yet, in referring to the
“synopsis of scenery” for even “The Bad
Girl,” an Adelaide critic once witheringly
remarked, “It should be ‘synopsis of ob-
scenery.’ ”
“Norbell”: Fred Esmelton’s return with
the “Lightnin’ ” co. after much mumming
in Wilson’s country recalls an amiable
characteristic of the late Alfred Dampier.
Me were on tour with “Robbery Under
Arms,” and Esmelton was doubling George
Storefield and Daly the bushranger. At Hill-
grove (N.S.W.) all the men were making-up
in one small dressing-room, when Word came
that Esmelton had been ordered to lied by
the local doctor, and could not play that
night. Most managers would have started
cursing and wondering how to re-arrahge
the cast at such short notice. Not so kind-
hearted Dampier. His first thought was for
the sick man. “Oh, poor Esmelton!” said
a . H(^ v he must be worrying about the
show. One of you gentlemen run over to
his hotel and tell him not to bother. We’ll
manage all right.” Then he thought of the
Play ; * et me ‘see—Warrigal can speak
most of Dalys lines; and you, Mr. Hollo-
way, can receive a letter from George Store-
field m Act I. saying he’s too ill to come
wady!'” 14 1 bG 811 rlght Ririg up ’ rm
htt ’ x ” (B* 54/8/19) refers to
‘Under the Red Robe,” which Julius Knight
played in Australia, as “a dramatisation of
Hopes novel.” It wasn’t. The book was
by Stanley Weyman, who was fond of put-
ting color in his titles—“ The Man in
Black,” “The Red Cockade” or “The Purple
Petticoat.” Books of this kind constitute
the chromatic fiction” about which Wells
was satirical in “Ann Veronica.” Ann’s
father, the middle-aged Peter Stanley, who
used to read them “to distract his mind,” is
generally accepted as a libellous portrait of
a Maoriland public man who with his
daughter spent some years in England.
. “Harrison O.”: The latest imported lead-
ing lady, seen in “Lightnin’,” at Melbourne
Royal, should prove a valuable acquisition
if given a chance in oratorio. She does not
speak her lines, but delivers them like reci-
tative. Scarcely once on the first night did
she lapse into a natural manner of speak-
ing, and I would certainly have projected a
brick at her but for the facts (a) she looked
so charming, and (b) I did not have a brick
ifi my pocket. A sudden change of voice
was employed occasionally by Marie Tem-
pest with amusing effect. Maud Fane used
to get laughs by the same method, but was
inclined to overdo it. The new lady forgets
to give the trick a rest, so the audience
mostly forgets to laugh. The voice should
proclaim the woman, not the actress.
“75”: Gwen Richardson, the bright Mel-
bourne girl who first smiled across the foot-
lights as an amateur with Gregan
McMahon’s Repertory co., has lately been
handed many bouquets by English critics for
her work in Shakspearean productions at the
“Old Vic” and at Stratford-on-Avon. She
lias also been playing comedy and emotional
roles on tour, scoring a success in the name
part of “Roxana,” which was produced here
by Muriel Starr as “Nobody’s Widow.”
Australian-composer George Clutsam, who
has published three books of music specially
built for cinema, purposes and in great de-
mand in England and U.S.A., is credited
now with the composition of a “cinema
opera.”
Two old friends of Australian stargazers
have parts in “The Black Feather,” a
“secret service” drama which is booming
at the Scala, in London. Susie Vaughan
has one of those character parts in which
she shines; Sybil Arundale —the best panto
“boy” we’ve had for years—plays the
heroine.
“S.S.”: It was the success of “Grumpy”
here that induced the Firm to try “Light-
pin’.” The two make an interesting study
in English and American methods. Neither
play would be worth a dump without the
old cuss who monopolises the “lime,” but in
every respect the English production is ahead
of the American. “Grumpy” as an individual
was more human than Lightnin’ Bill Jones,
"LUCIA DI LAMME RMMOOR," AT
SYDNEY MAJESTY’S.
Sir Edyar (Vittorio Lois) dies a grand-
opera death in the arms of Raymond
(Guido Cacialli).
more consistent in his cussedness, and very
much more an artesian well of naive humor.
Grumpy did convince you that he was only
a slight exaggeration of a dozen eccentrics
you had met, whereas Bill Jones appeals
only as a reproduction of figures found in
fiction. The play run up around Grumpy,
indifferent as an effort of art, was yet
superior to “Lightnin’,” with its parody of
a bush court and its unoriginal judge, the
whole long act compelling recollections of
“Trial by Jury,” and of course suffering
woefully as a result of the comparison it
enforces.
“Dido”: I have vet to meet the American
dramatist or actor who can handle sentiment
in a way to convince the Australian. They
all have the defect of Dickens. You feel
the pump at work the moment they become
emotional in love, or grief, or even friend-
ship. In “Lightnin’ ” the defect is not more
pronounced than in half a score of recent
Yank importations, but it is conspicuously
present, afid the young hero cannot express
a friendly regard for old Bill Jones without
the surge of affection getting into his throat,
and making you feel that he is ready to cry
on Bill’s neck at a moment’s notice. The
American, pro. of the newer growth, like
the American-made play, has no feeling for
nuances; he cannot grade an emotion, so
that an American in a play, expressing re-
gard for his. friend Jim, gets the same gurgle
into his voice as when he is gloating over
his. best girl. This defect is peculiarly irri-
tating to the Australian ear. The Aus-
tralian in showing regard for a cobber hates
to go beyond an oath and a playful punch.
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: Re dark-haired
Camilles. Mary Provost, who played the
nart in the late ’fifties at the old Princess’s
Theatre, Melbourne, was a brunette. She
was well supported, when I saw her. by the
late Joseph Itayner. It was Mary Provost’s
star character, and I think she was the
first to introduce it to Melbourne.
“Plus Tax”: John Cosgrove promises to
be Australia’s historical playwright. He
prefaced “Jutland” with “Rasputin,” inci-
dentally introducing “the cult of the naked
believers.” S. M. Herald refused to men-
tion anything so nude, and altered the advt.
to read “cult of the believers.” The ad.-
man tried them with “cult of the
believers,” but that horrified Gran'ma more
than ever.
PERENNIAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At eighteen she was rather nice,
And acting fairly well.
I heard her say it once or twice—
No matter what befell
She would not stay for untold gold
Upon the stage if she were old.
At twenty-five she reigned a queen,
And always she could get
The town’s applause, if she was seen
As dainty Juliet;
And often she was known to say:
‘‘Till I am old I will not stay!”
At forty she had many friends,
AVas still of the elect;
Her good looks still might make amends
For any small defect.
And in her interviews you read:
“ ‘l’ll leave ere I am old,’ she said.”
At three-and-seventy years of age
She acted still. A scold
Assailed her with: “You swore the stage
You’d leave ere you were old!”
She turned upon her friend, I heard:
“Yes, madame, and I’ll keep my word!”
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.
Sydney Art Show.
In the past the Royal Art Society (Sydney)
crowded its walls with a bewildering collection
of mediocre work. Competition with the Society
of Artists and the Arts Club has led to a more
drastic selection. Yet, though on the whole the
show just opened at the Education Galleries is an
improvement on last year’s, it still lacks “punch.”
The outstanding men are Muir Auld, Will Ashton
and James R. Jackson. Muir Auld’s is the most
interesting exhibit. “Morning on the Farm” is an
oil very convincingly painted. It is a simple sub-
ject looking towards the sun, the effect so beloved
of Gruner. It is a sincere effort in sober greys.
There is a very nice quality of color running through
it, and light is successfully rendered. Taking it
all round, this is the finest thing in the show, and
was much more worthy of resting in the National
Gallery than many of the paintings chosen by the
trustees. Auld shows a number of pleasing land-
scapes, all in greys, quiet and refined in color. He
has, too, one good interior, “Correspondence.” Its
only fault is that it lacks “snap.” “Blue, Green
and Grey,” a figure composition by the same artist,
is not so successful. It is well painted, but un-
inspired.
Will Ashton exhibits good work. In “Peace Day
Celebrations” he has retained the freshness of an
impression and carried it out successfully. Ashton
shines as a painter of streets. Streets have a charac-
ter all their own, and Will Ashton understands
them. He is more successful in handling a subject
of this kind than in interpreting the “Harbor.” His
harbor is too hard, and lacks the poetry of Streeton.
There is more feeling and sympathy in “The Camp
at Night” than in any of the others. The trustees
of the Gallery purchased No. 32, “Kirribilli Wharf
(Morning),” which is a good literal impression, but
one feels it has not been sufficiently studied as a
composition. They also bought No. 63, “H.M.S.
New Zealand” (oil), which is not as good.
James R. Jackson has nothing fresh to say. His
recent panel in the Arts Club show was more inter-
esting and varied. One tires of such canvases as
“A Romance” with the same studio couch and
“props” that he has shown us in other exhibitions.
No. 42, “The Landing Place,” is the Jackson woman
in the Jackson boat on the Jackson harbor, and very
pleasing if you had not seen his work before, Some-
one ought to take Jackson away from boats and
studios right out to Bourke. He needs fresh in-
spiration.
Lister Lister shows a collection of oils and watch-
colors. The large oil, “Honeysuckles,” is un-
pleasant in color. There is no suggestion of light i
the handling is too coppery. Compare his gums
with Heysen’s, and you realise that the spirit of the
gum is not in him. His best oil is “Marshlands,”
In it he presents a fresh outlook. His best water-
color is “A Hazy Summer Day”—a group of trees
in flat country. A large seascape is not a success.
The purple tone running through it is unpleasant,
and the puffy clouds are unconvincing.
There is some good painting in J. S. Watkins's
portrait of F. Burton Smith. The head is well done.
“Interlude” by the same artist, is “pretty-pretty”
and commonplace. The most accomplished exhibit
by Watkins is a chalk drawing of a nude in the
black-and-white section.
Chas. F. Tindall shows a number of water-colors.
The Gallery purchased “Returned from the War.
11.M.A.5. Melbourne and Destroyers.” It is a grey
scheme, and much more restful than the other
rather garish war-interest pictures. Tindall lias
taken the trustees’ tip that records of the war
would be looked on favorably by them. The idea
is a worthy one, but not for the Gallery. There
ought to be one purpose there—the selection of the
best works of art, regardless of whether they arc
war records or not. There ought to be a special
gallery for war records. Tindall’s work is always
handled capably. He is a good draughtsman, and
he uses his medium well, but he is too literal and a
little hard. His best water-color is No. 166, “A
View of Sydney Harbor.” Mt is a gem.
Datillo Rubbo appears before the critics better than
he did last year, but something must be worrying
him. He has at least three styles in this exhibition.
There is a “straight” portrait of a small girl. Toler-
able. There is a nude with armbands over her
breasts. It is called “A Decorative Study.” Curious.
Then there is a neatly-painted figure composition.
“Sewing ’Flu Masks.” And there are “The Moun-
tain Train” and “Australian Landscape.” Before
these two strangely-painted works “Sewing ’Flu
Masks” looks like a prayer between two blasphemies.
Yet “The Mountain Train” has a merged feeling,
and it is along these lines Rubbo should develop. ,
There is something to be said for “Lady with a
Hollyhock” by Marriott Woodhouse. Though too
smooth in quality, there are some good passages of
paint, and the balance and composition have had
careful thought.
After looking at .To Wolinski’s portraits one comes
to the conclusion that the portraits themselves are
in the joke. They know that they are humorous,
and if they could they’d join in the laugh against
themselves.
Lawson Balfour’s work is pretentious. It is cheap
in effect and insincere. The water-color purchased
by the Gallery is mediocre and should not har e been
bought. Tristram’s “Coast Piece” is a. delicatelv-
handled seascape in grey, with a nicelv-suggested
foreground, and W. P. Holdsworth’s water-colors,
though slight, are the most distinguished in the
section.
G. L. Trindall is responsible for some excellent
pencil drawings. Two of Alfred Coffey’s etchings.
Nos. 253 and 257, reach a high mark. His other
etchings are very unequal in quality, and some are
bad. Two etchings by Dorothy Beedham purchased
bv the Gallery are _ amateurish. The selection of
etchings is not sufficiently discriminating.
Two miniatures by Gladys Laycock, Nos. 261 and
262, are excellent examples of the art, arid will stand
careful study.


Better Paper
Sole Agents:
B. J. BALL Ltd.
168 CLARENCE ST.
SYDNEY.
132-4 Charlotte Street,
BRISBANE.
552 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
Samples, printed and plain, always
available on application.
vm
• ■ ;*
v
5j
THE PRINTER
whose reputation rests on quality , and yet who realizes that
price does count in competitive work is assured both as to
quality and price in Warren Standards. These “consistently
even” qualities are no more expensive than other papers. So,
we add, the printer
CAN SAFELY DEPEND
ON
Better Printing
Warren's Specialties are:
Cumberland M.F.
Cumberland Super.
Lustro Coated.
Warrentown Coated.
Cumberland Coated.
Olde Style Antique.
Library Text M.F.
Silkote Dull Art.
Printone Super.
Cameo Cover.
Stocks carried at all Branches.
M
K
ZJ
STAN
DARD
Printin
ers


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
foie Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redlern. Sydney.
Goldfinder ooap
LEWIS &WHITTY MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
CASTOR OIL, SALTS»DRUGS REPLACED
BY CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
Delicious fruit laxative cleanses
stomach, liver and bowels of
old and young folks.
A delicious remedy for constipation,
biliousness, sick headache, disordered stom-
ach, indigestion, coated tongue, sallowness—
take California Syrup of Figs—“Califig.”
For the cause of all this distress lies in a
torpid liver and sluggish bowels.
A tablespoonful to-night means all con-
stipation poison, waste matter, fermenting
food and bile gently moved out of your sys-
tem by morning without griping. Please
don’t think of California S.vrup of Figs—
“Califig”—as a physic. Don’t think you
are drugging yourself or your children. This
delicious fruit-laxative cannot cause injury.
Even a delicate child can take it as safely
as a robust man. It is the most harmless,
effective stomach, liver and bowel regulator
and tonic ever devised.
Ask your chemist for a bottle of “Califig"
—California Syrup of Figs, which has full
directions for babies, children of all ages and
for grown-ups plainly printed on the bottle.
Get the genuine, made by California Fig
Syrup Company. Refuse any other kind
with contempt. “Califig’'—California Syrup
of Figs—is sold by all chemists in two
sizes, 1/6 and 2/4. [3
SPORTING
NOTIONS
"ON TOP" WITH
MICK SIMMONS
SURE CATCH TACKLE
Metrop. favorite Booster was given a run
at Warwick Farm (Sydney) on Saturday. Starting
at 7 to 4 he left the money in the bag. Booster
has done as much fast work as anything at Rand-
wiek during the last few’ weeks; 'and, though on
die big - side, should have been able to settle the
Warwick Farm lot if his place on the Metrop. list
was justified. He ran well enough into the straight,
and then petered right out. Another nag spoken
of many times in connection with distance Spring
handicaps was out at the same meeting—Carbern.
His effort was the Liverpool Mile. He never looked
a likely place-getter. Laddie Blue, carrying 71b.
over his Epsom weight, took the cash in “41L”
I ast year Laddie Blue ran a mile at Randwick in
“381.”
P. O’HARA WOOD (Vic.).—
when he teas younger.
Kelso’s Derby roll Milleme started in the
Liverpool Mile at Warwick Farm on Saturday. Tie
was at a long price and finished well back. The
Hordern-owned gelding Admiral Collingwood, who
may be expected to have something to say in the
Deiby, took the Three Year Old Handicap without
effort. There was nothing of much consequence be-
hind, but the way he was running on at the end
showed that, _ like his sire Trafalgar, this youngster
is prepared to stav to the end.
* * * *
Some weeks ago this column struck a note
of warning re the soundness of imported Menin,
an early selection for Melbourne Cup. It now
appears that Menin’s feet are disposed to crack, but
trainer Hickenbotham “is hopeful of getting the
English kbrse through his Cup preparation.” If
droughty conditions continue, what chance will the
tenderfoot have of coming fit and well to the
barrier on November 4 ?
* * * *
At the A.R.C. G. N. meeting Lord Setay
gave his new owner some encouragement. After
being well beaten by Crusader on the first day of
the meeting he cleared out with the Mayor’s Mile
last Saturday under a steadying Bst. 71b. The son
of St. Anton —Lady Dudley is engaged in the Vic.
Derby.
* * * *
The remarkable feature about the enor-
mous dividend paid at Adelaide R.C. meeting id that
it followed on a dead heat, run off. Never before
can each backer who had put a modest pound on his
fancy have watched a race, with the one doubt in
his mind whether he would collect £3OO or a mere
£lOO. When the outsider Argosy Boy came home
level with the favorite Anotto, H. G. Young, owner
of the latter, did not think it good enough to divide.
So J. B. Jackson engaged Ilopwood, the best local
rider, for Argosy Boy in the run off, and won by a
length. It seemed rough on Lindsay, who rode in
the first race, but too much w r as at stake to take
chances. Invested, £4 ss. Dividend, £3Ol 17s.
In the old days it would have been over £4OO, but
one-quarter of the money in the machine now goes
to the second animal. Thus the £836 16s. which
D.O.D. earned in the Goodwood Handicap in 1881
would be only £627 under modern conditions. But
proportionately it is beaten by the £lBl 10s. paid
on Westendale in 1917 for a mere second place at
Morphettville.
On his breeding Argctsy Boy shouldn’t have
started altogether friendless in the race in which he
earned such a mighty dividend. He is descended
(by Scottish Boy, his sire, who was by Scottish
King) from Hautesse, by Haut Brion, and so from
Trenton. Alga, his grand-dam, was likewise the
grand-dam of Algous, winner of the last Australian
Steeple.
* * * *
This is the season for mug-catching yarns
about record track gallops. A bold cross-heading in
the training reports shouts that Bluenose, with a
light boy up, ran 10 furlongs on the cinders in Jsec.
faster time than the record scored by Yellowskin six
years ago. The fact that Yellowskin never won a
race worth mentioning is ignored as a matter of no
importance. Melbourne touts last week announced a
phenomenal track gallop by Luteplayer, a light-
weight candidate for the Cups. Luteplayer cer-
tainly looks a possibility on paper, but his early-
morning performance merely indicates that the
Comedy King horse is already forward in condition
and was being asked to give the touts something to
talk about.
* * * *
“Spreader”: The Destroyer’s poor showing
in the Rosehill Maiden didn’t cause his friends any
anxiety as regards Ids Epsom chances. Last year
he was heavily backed, in the big mile, but just as
the barrier went up he was busy “savaging” Yolpi,
got away with the tail end and failed to find an
opening afterwards. A couple of days liter he led
the Metrop. field a lively dance for 10 furlongs,
clearly showing that his Epsom form was all wrong.
He’s got as sound a set of timber under him as any
horse in the country, and can towel up all the guns
on the tracks. All he wants is a change of luck
this season and he’ll soon demonstrate that the crowd
behind him are better judges than the public at
present imagine. It was condition that beat him
at Rosehill, not Elfacre.
* * * *
While the true strength of the Maoriland
brigade remains in doubt, it seems folly for Vic.
punters to go on picking local doubles for the two
cups. Gloaming, for instance, is thought by the
M.L. cognoscenti to be good enough to hump his
heavy burden in the lead from end to end at Caul-
field. And there are others from across the water.
There have been years when the Sydney nags cut
poor figures in comparison with the cracks from
Maoriland. Meanwhile people talk of Nigbtwatch re-
peating his Melbourne Cup victory, as though the
handicapper had again pitched the son of Wakeful
into the race. And this before one can say how
the crop of three-year-olds is going to turn out.
According to the law of averages a youngster is
likelv to take the two-mile event this November.
* * * *
The expected occurred ou Monday when
“Fred” AVilson, who has been connected with the
A.J.C. for a couple of decades, was given the
handicapper’s job recently vacated by J. Daly.
G. F. AVilson should know the game from end to
end if experience is a leading factor. He already
handicaps for the half-dozen chief suburban clubs,
and when Mr Daly suddenly became ill the other
day he “did” the Epsom and Metrop. to the satis-
faction of most people. He has been assistant see.
of the A.J.C. for some years.
* * . * *
Molly's Itobc did well to win the Denham
Plate at the Q.T.C. Meeting at Brisbane on Satur-
day. She did the mile in lmin. 39sec. ; and with
Bst. 91b. up, which is practically her Epsom weight,
led all the wav. Jessyce (another Syce marc) won
the Exhibition Handicap (lj mile) at this meeting,
while at Caulfield about the same time, Gaboora.
(by Syce—Lady Wren) was easily winning the
Maiden Plate.
* * * *
A 1 King. N. S. Wales’s featherweight
champion, was about 100 per cent, too good for
Harry Swift, of Melbourne, on Saturday night last.
They met at Sydney Hippodrome, and in the very
early stages of the first round the visitor was
beaten; half-way through it he was out. King has
about the heaviest right-hand punch of any feather
in the business.
» * * *
The imperishable Fritz Holland put up
another gallant and skilful display at Sydney
Stadium on Saturday night. He tried to give George
Cook close on two stone, and the celestial recorder
alone knows how many years, and at the finish of
20 rounds was not far behind. Youthful vigor alone
beat him. It could not out him. A great old general
is the baldhead who gave Les Darcy his first boxing
lssson in public.
* * * *
Cabled that Jack Britton beat Mike
O’Dowd on points last week. Britton, who claims
the welter-weight championship of the world, has
met,some of the best in recent years. He won twice
in 1916 from “Kid” Lewis, who made such an
impression in Sydney five years ago when, as a light-
weight, he successively accounted for Herb McCoy,
Hughie Mehegan and Joe Shugrue, However, they
have some great welters in England just now, and
Britton has not sampled them. And, further, he is 35.
* * * *
Sergeant Ernie Fullalove, Vic.’s one-time
heavyweight amateur champion, is amongst the
homing Diggcis on the Indarra. Fullalove is a
brainy and pleasant-mannered boxer, who, when
the w r ar started, was running a muscle-culture school
and refereeing most of the big matches at the West
Melbourne Stadium. He has been in khaki a good
four years.
* * * *
Ferdinand Quendreux, the French welter,
who has been boxing strongly and w r ell of late, met
his Sedan at Brisbane Stadium on Saturday night.
A local lad, Bill Ewart, knocked him out in the
third round. Ewart was just on a stone the heavier
of the two.
■* * * *
“S.T.S.”: The “descriptive” football re-
porter has a hard time with the Australian code.
The better the class of play, the quicker come goals
and behinds—one every 24
or 3 minutes if things are
brisk. So he has been
driven to invent a jargon
to avoid using the two
words over and over again.
A goal counts six, and is
signalled by the goal-
umpire waving two flags;
a shot just outside the
posts, but inside tw o outer
posts, is a behind —one
point, and shown by one
flag. Here are the varia-
tions for a behind in a
recent report: a minor, a
single, a one-flagger, a
point. But the goal gets
the real eloquence: a sixer,
a major, raised two flags,
notched the maximum,
secured the possible, raised
both flags, between the
main posts, through the
uprights, kicked true, shot
straight, made no mistake,
turned it to the best
account, got on to the tar-
get, directed it right
home, brought home a full
cargo. In the towns
where Rugby is unknown,
the constant repetition of
“tries” in cables dis-
tressed the stylist sub-
editors, and till quite
lately it was possible to
read that some M.L. team
had scored a goal and so-
many “attempts.”
EICKE, captain St.
Kilda (Vic. League
Football).
If violence by barraekers means keen
interest in the game, football in Adelaide is boom-
ing. A crowd “got to” Umpire O’Connor outside
the Jubilee Oval after a recent match, and he had
to be taken to the hospital. A resulting charge
in the Police Court was considered by the P.M.
serious enough to he sent on to the Criminal Court.
* * * *
H. L. Doherty, the greatest lawn-tennis
player that England has produced, died last week.
He learnt the game at Westminster School, was a
champion at 144, anil played for Cambridge as a
freshman. While still at the University he won the
English doubles championship (with his brother
11. F.) and the all-Comers’ singles. He was at vari-
ous times Irish, Scotch and American champion, and
from 1902 to 1906 he was champion of England.
His health failed at the age of 37, and when the
war began he was more or less of a wreck. He
accepted a commission in the A.-Aircraft service, but
he was a dying man at the time, and was only 42
when he passed out.
* * * *
Norman Brookes went down last week to
Youth in the person of Willis Davis, of San Francisco
—no relation of Dwight Davis, donor of the Cup,
who belongs to St. Louis. Brookes appears to have
played his usual masterly game, but he was unable
to cope with the Yank’s cannon-ball- sendees. Aus-
tralians would have a better line as to the quality
of the old champion’s conqueror had Patterson met
him, but that young man is laid up at the moment
with a wrenched arm. As C. Garland, another
player who has clone little in worid tennis, sub-
sequently beat Davis, the chances are that Brookes
was off color.
Both Davis and his victor, Garland, were seen
in action during the recent All-England tournaments
at Wimbledon. They crea.ted no great stir, neither
being reckoned in tile class of W. M. Washburn,
much less in that of Clarence Griffin, about the
best of the Yanks who were in England for the big
matches. The Singles Champion of America—re-
putedly one of the greatest singles nlayers the world
has known —is, of course, R. N. Williams.
* * » *
The A.I.F. XI gave Essex an innings
beating last week. Essex is led by “Alphabetical”
Douglas—.-well-known to earlier Australian cricketers
—who was one of the chief causes of the A.I.F.
team’s only real failure in England. The calamity
occurred in the match against the “Gentlemen of
England.” Douglas and Falcon (who plays for Nor-
folk, which is an obscure third-class county) got all
the wickets, and the former made 56.
In the Vie. League game on Saturday
Souths met Richmond and were lucky not to lose.
Richmond led in the closing stages of the game, and
if they had been satisfied with that, and settled
down to a purely defensive policy, Souths might
never have got through again. As it was, Laird and
Doherty got the chance they wanted; and, with
three minutes to go, the present Premiership leaders
were in the van to the extent of five points. They
stayed there, winning by 6—7 to 4 —14. ’Wood
(eight points behind Souths on the Premiership list)
downed Melbourne by 145 to 36 ; and Carlton beat
’Saints (74 —58). So that Carlton leads ’Roy
(which drew with Geelong) by two points on the
list, and has the distinction of being in the first four.
* * * *
•The N. S. Wales Rugby Union team was
beaten by the despised Bananalanders on Saturday.
At half-time the Ma State was comfortably ahead
(15 —8) ; then the Northern men pulled themselves
together and fairly bustled their opponents off their
feet. At one stage Q. led by four points—-chiefly
owing to the strong and capable efforts of Williams.
Murphy, and the captain, Flynn. On the sounding
of the last whistle the scores were: Q., 25; N.S.W.,
24. The ordinarily reliable Mingav played a disap-
pointing game for the losers.
Balmain forged ahead in the N. S. ales
Rugby League competition on Saturday by defeat-
ing Newtown, 18 —5. Easts fell before Souths,
after a brilliant game, by 15—12 ; Wests defeated
Glebe by 10 —8 ; and Annandale notched their first
success this season by wiping out Norths by 8 5.
As regards goal-kicking, Wally Messenger (37) now
leads from A. McPherson (34).
* * * *
The Australian Rugby League XIII mop-
ped up Maoriland at Wellington on Saturday by 44
points to 21. Three-quarters Duffy (six goals) and
K. Ifwerson (three tries) scored all M.L.’s points.
For Australia Harold Horder supplied two tries and
two goals, Herb Gilbert three tries, and A. Oxford
three goals and one try.
* * * *
N.S.W. v. Victoria lacrosse match at
Sydney on Saturday was a runaway victory (by
13 goals to 8) for the home team. For N. S. Wales
Mann (six) and Rowe (four) were the chief
scorers. Stedman and Laugh!in got two goals each
for Vic. All the visitors were ex-A.I.F. men; and
it was the first time in the history of the game
that N. S. Wales had licked a Vic. team in Sydney.
On Monday, however, the Victorians met another
N. S. Wales team —a team lucking combination
amongst other things—and defeated it utterly. The
final scores were 23—2.
* * * *
Glebe-Bahnain was unfortunate to lose a
game in the Sydney Union Rugby Competition at
the present stage. It looked to have a winning
chance against Cambridge even with its star players
away. But, apparently, bereft of the stars, Olebc-
Balmain is useless. Uni. now leads by two points.
* # * *
Melbourne footballers are trying to filch
April from the flannelled fools. They contend that
the year should be divided into two seasons of six
months each, cricket starting in October.
* * * w
The return of the A.I.F. team will provide
an extra item in the coming cricket season’s pro-
gramme. State cricket associations will control
their own fixtures, and half of the gate-money is to
go towards a soldiers’ memorial. Matches are listed
for Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydnev and Brisbane.
* * * *
The revived N. S. Wales five-mile cross-
country championship at Sydney on Saturday en-
ticed 29 athletes for the mixed journey over race-
course sand and fences. Veteran R. J. Fitzsimmons
(South Sydney) led most of the way, and broke the
tape in 30min. lOsec. 11. L. Sheaves (South Syd-
ney) was only ssee. behind, and H. Hayden (Botany),
who took the title in 1914 and 1915, finished close
up. third.
* * * *
In the Vie. Motor-cycling Club’s 24-hour
road test the conditions provided that 30 miles
per hour shduld be maintained. At the first attempt
17 riders finished the full day without loss of
points. Then 15 starters lined up for a further
elimination test, and after nearly 400 miles had
been covered the officials decided to give C. H.
Disney and A. N. McCall legs in. They both rode
7-h.p. India»s clad with Dunlop tyres.
* * * *
The only complete inter-State cricket
fixture list out to date is that of N. S. Wales.
S. Aus. is to be dealt with on December 19-23 at
Adelaide, and Victoria on December 26-30 at Mel-
bourne. At Sydney N. S. Wales will meet S. Aus.
on January 9-13, and Vic. on January 24-28. Eight-
ball overs will be played, and matches are to begin
st 11 a.m. C. G. Macartney, Tom Howard and
Arthur Mailey will be the selectors. .Beginning
"■'tli the incoming season the ownership of the
Sheffield Shield will be decided: the State to get
the first two years’ successes will become the per-
manent holder of the trophy.
* * * *
J. .T. Miller’s “Sporting Annual” (form-
erJy Chronicle”) retains all its original usefulness
in the 44th year of its age, and is even more informa-
tlve - I» its “form at a glance” section the “An-
nual states all the performances of all the entrants
for the Metropolitan and the Cups. The deeds of
wonderful Cetigne fill the largest space. They have
more than a full page in the handy volume, and
come as a timely reminder that when the steel-
legged gee was a three-year-old he scored six wins
and seven seconds in 15 starts. In Cctigne’s fifth vear
the score was five wins, three seconds and two thirds
in 15 starts. He is now in the “aged” division,
with fair prospects of filling some more space in
J. J. Miller’s next.
- *** . * .
“A.E.K.” : I’m backing this small coral
patch (Fanning Island) to produce the gamest little
fish that swallows bait, lie's known as the gu-gu.
and resembles very closely the Australian whiting.
As a marine sprinter he is a champion. Some of
these fish tip the scale at 71b., but a three- or
four-pounder firmly attached to a hook, line and
rod makes sparks and music fly from, the reel.
It’s a henpecked old chap that doesn’t make half
a dozen sprints of 50 yards before, throwing' in
the towel. They are rather bony, but are great
bait for the big “paihere” and tuna, the kings of
sporting fish in these waters.
THE VANISHED GARDEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“One of the beauty-spots of Victoria (8.C.) is a
sunken garden. it was made in an old quarry out
of which limestone had been taken for a cement-
works. The bottom of the quarry has been turfed,
the holes turned into ponds, and creepers and scrubs
trail down the cliffs.” —Sydney Sun.
“Ah, that dear old sunken garden,
Where we gambolled in the sun,
Playing tennis, bowls and croquet —
Ah, the laughter and the fun!”
Thus, gloomily, Augustus Blobbs, recalling days
gone by,
A reminiscent yearning in his sentimental eye.
It had certain minor drawbacks.
Thus, one hardly could afford
To intone, with sudden rapture,
“Come into, the Garden, Mol'd!”
Since, probably, it would have caused ill-feeling,
nay, a tiff,
if, in response, the maiden had come quickly—
down the cliff.
Then, again, while keenly bowling,
Or while playing at the nets,
One was often somewhat startled
(Thereby losing games or sets)
To suddenly see falling (none knew whence or
why or how)
Through creeping vines and cliff-side shrubs, the
body of a cow.
Though the lawns resembled magnets
By attracting from above
Droves of goats and dogs and such-lilte,
Yet the garden held my love.
And even when unruly boys dropped earth on us,
and bricks,
I never blamed the garden for their irritating
tricks.
The dear old spot has disappeared.
In an effort votes to win
The local Bumbles ruled it out
And their workmen filled it in.
1 et 1 recall that chalk-pit with regretful feelings
still,
While frivolling upon the flat, or sporting on the
hill.
Jf.S.W.
10-2-4.


Energy Health Brain Power
Maximum Energy-
Maximum Health-
Maximum Brain Power.
PHYSICAL CULTURE FOR MEN - MY GUARANTEE.
cS a TSS3JS 2SK
al! al T y T- are f 110 t P erfectl >' satisfied that my system is
entir ° laim , for to refu nd without question the
entire amount paid by you.
(Sgd.) REG. L. BAKER.
The above personal guarantee is for your acceptance in
SSraS Wlt ? ni -V remarkable system' of Health Budding!
PoverW h yStCm f , JUlldll f He alth, Vitality and Brain
late L evolved on cheerful lines to directly stimu-
will iimp!l 'V Ce 01 . Vlta l Energy. It is S o simple that it
Mill appeal to you immediately as the right wav to acquire
maximum efficiency of body and brain. ** You Vill apple
ciate readily what startling results will be obtained. ‘ P
My Postal Course of Health and Strength Culture
vn, 1 , 1 £s* you renewed health and strength. The exercises
“I e Wlll l Je th ? se most suited to your individual
needs, just as you furnish particulars. Write your name and
addiess across this advertisement, and send it to me with
BlfnPiot taln^TrrI l d T Ju Vlll * d you a cop - v of m .v interesting
CULTURE ” HEALTH AM> STRENGTH FROM SELF
Those desiring to avail themselves of personal instruction are
cordially invited to call and have a chat with me about
their requirements, and see. a demonstration. Full particu-
lars and fees on application.
REG. L.i snow, iBAKER,
Natural Health and
Physical Culture
Expert,
Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street (Cr. Crown St.), Sydney.
m
. THE GREAT
AtlANjWFlTght
n
/
£
f* A
' M
SHELL
BENZINE
WAS USED
in the Vichers-Vitny Bombing;
Aeroplane flown by Capt.
Alcock r.n<l Lieut. A. W.
Brown.
MOORE (Patent)
4-SPEED
GEAR BOX
for Ford Cars
WESTCOTT, HAZELL & CO. LTD.,
311 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Suppliers of all Motor Accessories.
DUNCAN PTY. CO.,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOR
MINING. MILLING, etc.
TNCLUDING
STEAM ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
A*ND WILL HE POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO
THE SECRETARY,
Box 229 0.P.0.,
MELBOURNE.
THE GENERAL MANAGER,
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEBNSLAND.
THE SECRETARY
Box 220 U.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
a
mm
:*V
Screens and Perforated Plates
For Stone Crushing Plants, Coal Mines, etc.
Any size hole up Stone Breakers, Crushing Rolls,
to o/2 in. in / w *
Bin pla,e Portable Road Plants, Elevators.
MANUFACTURED BY—
JAQUES BROS. Pty. Ltd.,
Coppin Street, Richmond, MELBOURNE, VIC.
Send for our Illustrated Catalog No. 20.
Kruses
Fluid
Magnesia
for IndigesTion.
/
\
You Gentlemen
Interested in and Managing
Railway «Tramway Concerns
ARE YOU ENCOURAGING
AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRIES?
Have You Tried Australian-made
Weldless Forged Steel Rolled Tyres
made from Australian Steel ?
If not, send us a Trial Order and try
them out under severest conditions
against the best imported ?
REPEAT ORDERS WILE FOLLOW.
THOMPSON 8 CO.
(Castlemaine)
Prop. Ltd.
Telegrams & Cables:
“THOMPSON’S,
CASTLEMAINE.”
ENGINEERING WORKS,
Castlemaine, Victoria.
Telephones:
Nos. 5 & 113.
■ '■
MELBOURNE:
Gibson, Battle (Melb.) Pty. Ltd.
BRISBANE:
Engineering Supply Co. of Aust. Ltd.
AGENTS.
ADELAIDE:
Newton, McLaren Ltd.
SYDNEY:
Gibson, Battle & Co. Ltd.
PERTH:
Brown & Dureau Ltd.
LONDON:
Francis Chapman Son & Deekes, Fenchurch Street.


Specially fascinating are the
costume rings, with their
delicate colors of rare gems.
One example is illustrated.
Arf
b cla HJacn
c v
gh
From time immemorial rare jewels have ever exercised their fascination and
made appeal to the love of beauty latent in every personality. To-day
Rhoda Wager strikes the note of perfection in this art of personal adornment.
Out of the mists of antiquity this jewellery gathers a tribute of barbaric
splendor, while modern ideals of dignified simplicity and exquisite taste
are modified and blended by a master mind, for every example is separately
, / designed and wrought by hand, so that each piece is delightfully exclusive.
A'tribute by Julian Aohton ; —
“Their spontaneity, freshness of design, and excellent workmanship, the
certainty of taste with which the color of the gem is matched bv an appropriate
setting, conspire to place these works on a high plane of artistry ”
Prices on application. FARMER’S, SYDNEY. Box 497 Q.P.O.
Sole Selling Agents for X.S. \V.
PERFECT GOWNING
WITHOUT FITTINGS
Such is the craft of Shave,
Master Ladies' Tailors and
Dressmakers of Melbourne, that
they are able to fashion perfectly
the most elaborate gown
or the severest tailor-
suit without fittings
Visits by Shave to Sydney
and Adelaide each
half- year , and to
Brisbane yearly
SHAVE
LADIES' TAILORS,
DRESSMAKERS
Centreway, Melbourne
To show in Sydney
shortly. Kindly enquire
Hotel Carlton for
opening date of display.
: ; ' \
i ..
<C-m
VAeltoman
/▼ 1 HIGH-CLASS
ISP^IALTIES
Creams
ZjR d
Pastes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agrents—
WARREN & STRANC LTD.
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne.
f
E. BROWN @ SONS LONDON
AGENCIES • ALL - OVER • THE • WORLD
MEBOURNE
CHATTER
Warners
Rust Proof
Corsets
Can it be that Lieut.-Governor Irvine lias
already frozen his Ministers? At any rate,
only two —Lawson and Baird —turned up at
the Executive Council meeting a week ago.
In Ilopetoun’s day an average of 10 out of
the 14 Ministers who then constituted the
Cabinet assembled to meet him at Executive
Council meetings. Business over, Hopetoun
usually had a story to tell. Irvine, C.J.,
probably regards it as correct to be “on the
dignified,” as his former lieutenant, Thomas
Bent, would have phrased it.
His Ex. Goold-Adams, of Queensland,
passes lienee—not to a better land, but to
England—in January, on leave prior to
ending his term as Governor.
There was a ripple of excitement in Paris
about the sudden and quiet dissolution of
the marriage of “Sister Millicent” and our
own Brig.-General Fitzgerald. The once-
lovely Duchess of Sutherland was known in
Paris during the war as Sister Millicent.
Second-husband Fitzgerald fixed their resi-
dence in Paris in 1914. The lady is now
occupying herself in looking after some of
the devastated villages of France.
Leave of absence has been granted by the
Government to Peter Mcßride, the knightly
Agent-General, to enable him to visit Vic-
toria in October. He intends to stay only
a few weeks. As the latest extension of
his term of ofiice will end in October, it seems
hardly likely that he would come on a flying
trip unless he had expectations of additional
service.
General “Tom” Griffiths returns on the
Orsova with his wife and child. He left Aus-
tralia in October, 1914, as a captain on
General Bridges’ staff, was at Gallipoli and
in France, and then commandant at A.I.F.
headquarters, London. In the days that
were he was secretary to the Military Board.
Young Franklin Peterson (son of the late
Professor) is back from the place that used
lo be Hun New Guinea, where he acted as
gent.-help to General Johnston. Instead of
resuming his arduous duties as associate to
Justice Higgins the young man is to give
his pen-feathers a chance to sprout on the
Argus.
Lieut.-Col. Frank Derham, a tall and
handsome young Melbourne barrister,
returned by the Wiltshire. He put aside
his wig four years ago, and went off to
test his knowledge of gunnery, gained in
Saturday-afternoon soldiering. He came
back—by the same vessel in which he sailed
-—with a D.S.O. and a Croix de Guerre.
The Derhams hail from the heights of Kew,
sister Enid being one of our best authorities
on the English classics. The young officer’s
wife is a daughter of J. C. Bowden, an ex-
Y.R.C. committee-man.
The L. K. S. Mackinnons are in the
deepest distress. Young daughter Margot died
last week from appendicitis. Margot was
a blooming girl in her early twenties, and
was running about to races and dance
parties a week or two ago.
There have been big family reunions at
the abode of the Merson Coopers. Mrs.
Hammond Clegg is back from the other side
of the world with youngest daughter Hope.
Also, Gunner Tim Topp is home from the
war and dancing beautifully. He is a
nephew of old John Goodall, whose wealth
descended on the Cooper-Clegg clan.
The Gaud Mayoral election is being
excitedly discussed by men of girth and
tonnage. Since Hennessy the Continu-
ous reigned for five years, only to fall
at last, there has been no calm in alder-
manic circles. Stapley jumped in for a year,
and was out again. Then Cabena was in-
stalled. But his term is ending, and his
chances are shaky. The chief claimants
are Cabena, grain merchant H. K. S. Ward
and Councillor Aikman. Aikman looks most
promising. He is the wealthy speculator
who bought the mailboat Australia, wrecked
outside the Pleads years ago. Recently he
added to his troubles the Melbourne Cof-
fee Palace, where Dad and Mum stay at
Show time.
After a long experience of London in war-
time, Mrs. Norman Armytage is homing
across the Pacific. The lady was one of
the “regulars” at the Anzac Buffet.
The Byron Moore family has been tem-
porarily reinforced by elder daughter Ruby,
who left Australia for England in 1915, after
the loss of her husband, Captain Jock Gordon.
He was one of the first Indian Army officers
killed in the war. They were married from
Mrs. Dick Casey’s the day the Captain left
Australia to rejoin his regiment in India.
His bride was to have joined him there at
a later date had not fate willed otherwise.
The youngest Moore son, Eric, arrived from
Siam last month with his wife. They are
staying with Mrs. Eric’s mother, Mrs. Sam
Staugliton.
]Mrs. Manley, widow of the late Wemyss
Manley, died at St. Kilda last week in
her 89 th year. When she arrived from
Tassy the seaside suburb was a collection
of huts connected with Melbourne by a bush
track. The lady was best known for her
association with many charitable movements,
including the Women’s Hospital, of which
she was for 14 years lion. sec.
Wattle Day—for the children’s charities —
made town very bright on Friday, the
blossom being luxuriant this Spring.
Motored folk spent the previous day in the
country, and came back in triumphal pro-
cession smothered in gold. It made flower-
lovers tremble for the looted bushland.
Wattle Day dawmed sharp and blue and
frosty. ’Flu scare kept even the most foolish
virgins from venturing out in the usual
white frocks. All the bushranging was done
by nice cosy girls in cloth and furs. Mrs.
Ilallenstein took up her usual stand at the
Grand Hotel with a squad of girls. Mrs.
Pohlman held up Collins-street near the
Melbourne Club. The Free Kindergarten
women had the south side of Collins-street.
Mrs. Quinnell, of the Austral Salon, had
the Centreway. The Women’s Automobile
Club had a big say all round the town.
Mayoress Cabena had her kiosk, of course,
at the Town Hall. Bands played, but there
was no caf6-chantant business, as women
are tired of it. Only the indefatigable Kirby
ran a tea-song-jazz party in the Oriental
drawing-room. Diana Wilson starred along-
side him.
The Mayoral Barrs, of Fitzroy, made
such a success of their ball that the grateful
citizens are giving a return dance to-night
(Thursday) in the local Town Hall.
When war-correspondent Harry Gullett
was welcomed home at the rooms of the
A.J.A. there was a good muster of press-
men and two sisters of the pen, whose pres-
ence was the subject of gratified comment.
Gullett found neither balm in Gilead nor
cedar on Lebanon, but only bad smells and
an insanitary population. Before the gather-
ing dashed away to present delayed pars, to
posterity, the toast of a batch of inkslingers
who have recently returned after helping
to make the world safe for Thomas Walsh
was heartily honored.
This is 17-year-old Rosa Pinkerton, who
during the past couple of years has de-
veloped a voice of
remarkable quality.
Lately she displayed
her unfinished pro-
duct at a municipal
concert in the Town
Hall, and the critics
responded in unison
with a lot of highly
encouraging remarks.
The singer is an un-
spoiled ingenue with
copper-colored hair,
a sound constitution
and a notable capa-
city for work. On
the platform the girl
pictured here by T.
Humphry and Co., is
“the fairy princess
of the story-book,”
according to one press critic with an eye as
well as an ear. Her teacher, Elsie Davies,
hopes by and bye to push her up into the
first flight of operatic dazzlers.
Some of the announcements of a change in
the Founding Hospital show for Wattle Day
were misleading. Owing to ’flu the com-
mittee decided to keep the babies at home,
and present, in their stead, a grand array
of “baby dolls donated by city firms,” a
section of Collins-street having been allotted
for the purpose. That’s how the misunder-
standing came about. Rumor had put a
purely American construction on the term
“baby doll,” and a display of winsome
young things from drapery and teashops
w r as looked for.
“Rosna” meets some friends in London :
Ada Crossley has had an operation and is now
getting mended in a nursing home. She and her.
husband, Dr. Muecke, have left their jolly house in
St. John’s Wood for Queen-Anne’s-street, where the
panjandrums of the healing profession dwell in an
exclusive atmosphere of iodoform and big fees.
Now that Private Aussie and Corporal Digger
have gone home with their 17,000 English wives,
Miss Australia is getting a little of her own back.
One of her, Miss Marjory Boan, of Perth, is to
marry Lord Athlumney, who is both a baron and a
baronet. He owns 50 years or so and 10,000 acres
of Ireland. Another bride-elect is Cora, daughter of
Newton Moore, M.P., once Agent-General of Westra-
lia. She is to marry Capt. Bullen, of Cape Town.
Lieut.-Col. Birt, of Tambellup (W.A.), has ac-
quired a bride from Oxford. The Birts have a fine
war record. The Lieut.-Colonel won the D. 5.0., two
bars and three wounds. His brother, Lt. James Birt
(killed last year), added an M.C. A sister, Margaret
Birt, matroned a military hospital and has the
R.R.C.; yet another sister was an administrator in
the W.A.A.C.’s. The bride before mentioned was
just a V.A.D. and a W.R.A.F.
If you must be presented at Court nowadays, you
needn’t rehearse for months at walking backwards
with a silken train seven yards long. You needn’t
even undergo an inquisition by court menials in
case your garments are not quite of the right rich-
ness and cut to appear before G. and M. The old
ceremonials have been killed in action, and G. and
M. are getting through a five years’ accumulation
of debutantes at garden-parties instead. There is
a rumor that even invitations (or “commands,” as
the Jingoes love to call them) will soon be cut out,
and Thomas, Richard and Henry be permitted, to
tread the royal lawns, so we may see a queue at
Buckingham Palace yet. An assortment of Austra-
lians were presented at the first garden-party on
June 27 —the two Newton Moore girls of Westralia;
the young Allardyces, whose mother was a Molesworth
Greene of Victoria; Miss Ellis, of Sydney, presented
by her sister, Mrs. Ebenezer Vickery; Mrs. Bertram,
who was Miss L’Estrange. Eames; and Mrs. Harry
Gullett, daughter of novelist Barbara Bayntou.
His Honor Justice Schutt (known afore-
time to some people as “Billy”) was legal
adviser to the Navy
during the war, and
ranked as com-
mander. As soon as
he got into his blue
uniform he began
ordering rum when
friends asked him
to name his poison.
But there is no
record of his ever
dancing a hornpipe.
His fellow legal
adviser was Latham,
who went with
Robert Garran to
the Peace Confer-
ence. Schutt stayed
at home; but he
and his wife had
booked passages for
America next December and meant to go
on to London and Europe for a year’s
wander. The passages had to be cancelled
when he accepted his new responsibilities.
The pair are great travellers. They have,
in the law vacations, tripped to India,
Egypt and Honolulu. The last wander was
a year’s tour through America, llis Honor
chummed up with author Peter B. Kyne,
and one of the engagements he has just
had to cancel was for a tennis tournament
with Peter B. The portrait is by T.
Humphry and Co.
The adoption of by German
and Scandinavian singing mistresses has
always been a joke. Mrs. Pinschof, the Ger-
man wife of an ex-Consul for Austria,
chose to be “Madame Wiedermann,”
although she had formerly been Friiulein
on the German stage, and was obviously a
Frau after her marriage with a Pinschof
who styled himself “Herr” in Australia.
Yet in her case, as in that of “Madame”
Jansen, a Swede, who came to Australia
with one of Musgrove’s opera companies, due
allowance was made for her professional
capacity. Stage people are licensed to call
themselves what they like. A Scotchman
became Chung Ling Soo. But what can be said
in excuse of the Australian wife of a musician
whose most particular desire in life
is to be addressed as “Madame” on account
of her conspicuously German hubby? What
she would do to anyone who called her
“Frau,” in harmony with hubby’s “Herr,”
can only be faintly surmised from her indig-
nation when somebody pointedly addresses
her by her Australian “Mrs.”
Adelaide trims her hat: —
' Races are beginning to be fashionable again, and
each meeting sees an increasing number of women
in the saddling-paddock and on the lawns. The big
crowd that went to Victoria Park for the A.R.C.
Grand National Meeting on Saturday included a male
party from Government House and a big contingent
in coats-and-skirts and furs. One of the lucky people
to draw the big dividend on Argosy Boy was a
returned Digger just out from hospital.
On Friday the Cecil Brays (their elder daughter
is one of the season’s debutantes) gave a small
dance at the Bray dame’s house in Hutt-street. The
week kept up the usual average of a dance per
night; and engagements are almost as numerous as
dances. The week has brought us three —Capt.
T. W. English to Anncsley Minehin, only daughter
of the A. C. Minchins; Major Alan K. Wendt to
Miss Whitlock, a N. S. Wales nurse with the A.1.F.;
and Alan Taylor, of Victor Harbor, to Dorothy, third
daughter of the Reginald Wrights, of Magill.
A Humane Society’s bronze medal has come to
Paul Cellier, a boy of 14, who stopped a bolting
horse at Norwood last year. He is a great-grand-
nephew of the Alfred Cellier who gave us
“Dorothy.”
With a full tram service running all the week
and gas till 10.30, we are beginning to go gay again.
The Women’s Choir has resumed rehearsals after
two months’ silence.
Among the returning traveller's is Linda Stow,
who was in England when war broke out and has
been nursing afloat and ashore ever since. She put
in six months on a Mediterranean hospital ship dur-
ing the Gallipoli campaign.
The Lipson Hancocks have left on a six months'
trip to America. Most of his time will be put in
at copper-mines ami in getting hints for welfare
work on behalf of the 'Wallaroo and Moouta Co.,
which he manages.
Adelaide got a shipload of coal last week.
It was carefully doled out, and the trams
began to run again normally. It is hoped also
to restore the sleeping-berths on the Adelaide-
Melbourne line, where traffic is now much increased
by passengers coming in by the East-West from
Westralia. Four carriages nearly completed in Mel-
bourne have wardrobes!
An Adelaide law firm is advertising for the will
of the widow of O. C. Kingston. It is thought highly
probable that she made one; but she lived a lonely
and eccentric life, and no one seems to know where
to look for it. Meanwhile the Public Trustee has
taken charge of the £30,000 she left.
Violet Kerr, one of the most energetic
sassiety butterflies, is engaged again (the
“again” is heavily emphasised by her flapper
contemporaries). Violet’s last engagement
was broken recently. This time she is booked
up to Lieut. Schrader, a just-returned hero.
Wilfrid John Coghlan, son of the late
John Coghlan, who brewed beer in Ballarat,
has returned from the war, and presented
a sparkling ring to Marjorie Linley, daughter
of the J. H. Linleys, of Rycroft, Brighton-
road. Marjorie is a grand-daughter of the
original Wimpoles, of the George Hotel.
The rich youth Laurie Benjamin is
going to England to be married. His
mother is chaperoning him right to the altar,
and has supervised his beautiful trousseau.
Shortly after you have finished growl-
ing that there’s nothing in this page
(assuming that you do not put it
aside for Sunday reading) “Storkey”
Adams and Irma Caron will be signing
documents before the registrar of marriages
(a son of Marcus Clarke, by the way) which
will make them one another’s property.
“Storkey” (“M.P.A.” of many Bulletin
pars., for his first name is Marmion,
though he endeavors to keep it dark) is
well known as athlete, writer, picture-show
manager and concert entrepreneur; while
the bride is a daughter of the late Leon
Caron, the well-loved J.C.W. conductor,
and herself a clever vocalist and violinist,
who has won success here and elsewhere.
After a rural honeymoon, the pair will
probably leave for U.S.A., where the lady
will pursue her vaudeville aspirations, with
hubby as manager.
Gordon Boss Soden, youngest son of the
widow, is back from the war, bringing a
bride with him. Mamma gave one party at
Grong Grong before the newly-weds went
on to the Riverina sheepery. The pair will
return to town at race-time, and a reception,
garden party and ball are promised in their
honor.
“Maytime” at Melbourne Majesty’s shows
how fashion has staggered down from volum-
inous crinolines to the shivering brevities
of the present day. Gladys Moncrieff moves
into the first picture in a white-terraced
dream of tucks and frills, whilst the chorus
expresses the general gladness in pale greens
and blues and dawn effects. Gladys gives
her dressmaker another fling in the bright
and frivolous final scene. Herein manne-
quins show the latest sieve for winter
weather, and little Maie Bail’d prods the
attention with a chic and cheeky magpie
gown. But the eye reels before Florence
Young’s appearance in a huge hobbled ex-
travagance. In this diverting memory of an
ugly period the “bustle” of the ’eighties
dies in agony.
The first-night audience at Her Majesty’s
gave Olive Godwin an extra round of
applause when she stepped on to the stage
as the proprietress of a naughty American
Night Club of 1855, for it had just learned
of her engagement to J. E. Roberts, one
of the firm’s, musical directors.
The amiable Julius Grant is shaking the
hands of his numerous cronies preparatory
to leaving for England to assist his partner,
Bert Bailey, in arranging for the production
there of “On Our Selection,” “Gran’dad
Rudd” and “The Squatter’s Daughter.”
Art is booming in Melbourne. Within a
few hours of opening an exhibition of 70
war pictures at the Decoration Gallery,
Lieut. Daryl Lindsay had sold all but two,
and was rushing from his rooms to a frame
shop to have others got ready while the
boom lasted.
One of these cold nights a shocked viceroy
will hear King Billy clamoring for blankets.
The telephone directory reads: —
Government House:
Aide-de-camp, U 1475.
Staff, 03312.
Aborigines Board-room, C 5670.
A clubroom attached to each State school
for old boys is the latest idea. Hutchinson,
Education Minister, was cautious when the
suggestion was submitted to him. It will
not be surprising, however, if Tate exploits
the proposal, and gets a lot of work and
money out of old boys for the benefit of
John Smith, jun.


DEWAR’S
The Why
and Wherefore
of Whisky
When the figures of our yearly bill for beverages are examined
some startling facts are revealed, and a question which must force
itself upon the intelligent man is why so large a proportion of the
people continue to consume alcoholic stimulants without making
the slightest inquiry as to their ingredients or their effect upon the
health and well being.
It should be the bounden duty of every person who uses whisky to
familiarise himself with the truth, which is briefly this. The market
is deluged with harmful concoctions masquerading as whisky, but
which in no way merit the good old name. True whisky is prepared
from ingredients remarkable for their wholesomeness. Such whisky
used moderately is a positive aid to healthfulness. A stimulant, in
short, the use of which'is prudent and profitable.
The design of true whisky, so far from being to intoxicate, is to
exhilarate pleasantly and harmlessly. True whisky should also have
a food value calculated to nourish as well as sustain, and no
stimulant unless prepared with skill and judgment from perfectly
pure constituents is whisky in any sense of the word.
DEWAR’S
The Whisky of Perfect Purity.


Under
Royal
Warrant
fg
To H.M.
George V
CHAMPAGNE
Clite Heidsieck
ft,
u
champagne
'-Mesllcidsiedc
Reims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agrents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
THE
BRAND of QUALITY.
- AND <
PRESERVING
TRADE MARK
WEICHT WHIN PACKED
y,,4 OZS NET, O\0v;
Lr
C?ji
FOR
LINOS, WOOD FLOORS, etc.
There is ONIY ONE “ NUCCET.”
Refuse Just as Good.
Mend-a/Tcar
THAT WONDERFUL NEW MATERIAL WHICH
MENDS WITHOUT STITCHES. IT'S SO NEAT.
SO EFFECTIVE AND SO SIMPLE TO USE I DO
. „HIS REPAIRS IN A QUARTER THE TIME ~
Obtainable through all Drapers,
Stores, Cycle Agencies and Motor
Garages.
Sample Outfit Post Free on
Receipt of 1/4.
Sole Wholesale Distributors for N.S.W. and
Queensland —
Bennett & Barkell Ltd.
Meagher Street, SYDNEY.
What makes
Vanity Fair
vSiIK Gloves
the Best Gloves?
The care it takes to make a Perfect
SILK GLOVE.
Vanity Fair Silk Glove is cut individually,
f n ,. to fit perfectly. The half-sizes are cut
individually not taken in deeper at the seams.
No skimping over the wrist. The Gloves clasp with-
out Straining.
The Gloves are carefully shaped over the palm and
back to prevent stretching and wrinkling.
Every Glove passes four inspections before it is
sent to the shops.
Only Gloves perfect in strength and finish can grot
into the shops.
Every pair contains this Guarantee:—
“If these Gloves wear through at the finger-
tips at any time before they are washed, and
before the rest of the Glove lias had reasonable
wear, we will, upon receipt of this ticket
and your Gloves, replace them with a new
pair.”
THE SYDNEY AGENT FOR THE MILL IS
EMPOWERED TO REDEEM THIS GUARANTEE
TO THE MERCHANT. [7
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The Riviere pair, whose bankruptcy matter
before the Court has helped Sydney .to forget
its shortage of sugar, were, previous to their
departure and capture at Adelaide, living at
Clifton Gardens, where the westerlies sting
not, and nepenthe and the lotus and such
things as poets love to roll in grow all over
the place. Baron Gerald and his wife are
a very young pair. He is tall and reminis-
cent of “Bubbles” grown to manhood; she
a gentle-looking little brunette girl, and her
toques and other battery helped to brighten
the lives of other visitors at the hotel dur-
ing the dull season.
“I am proud to kiss the hand of a mother of
French soldiers and one who, though far away
from her native land, has done so much to
help it.” And Consul Campana thereupon did
the deed with extreme grace amid the hand-
claps of the committee and friends of the
French-Austrajian League of Help met
in the drawing-room of the Australia to
say (iu recoir to Mrs. Playoust. A diamond
brooch accompanied the pretty speeches, and
Madame, a little brokenly, for which she was
clapped all the more, replied and spoke of
the ready sympathy she had found for the
cause of Franfce among the Australians. A
vice-regal tond was given by the arrival of
the Davidsons (somewhat late). Chief
Justice Cullen’s grey-clad wife came in their
train. Mrs. Campana, in a smart fawn frock
and fashionable headgear, listened with joy
to her native tongue ; Mrs. Richards added
civic weight, and Miss Gurney and Mrs.
Arthur Jewett, pillars of the League, were
of those honored with a frilled posy. The
bowls of flowers on the tea-tables were
stabbed with miniature French and Aus-
tralian flags, our own starred emblem bear-
ing the familiar legend, “Made in Japan.”
A London message announces the death of
Rupert Leigh, at G 2. Sydney knew him as
A.D.C. to the Jerseys in the early ’nineties.
Lady Jersey was his aunt, and he came to
N._ S. Wales to save money. He was the
heir to the Leigh barony, but his father
needed most of the money the estates brought
in, and he persistently refused to die. Major
Leigh fought in every possible campaign up
to S’Africa, and in 1900 took a Government
House job in Bombay.
Vienna the gay, the suave, the school for
diplomats—that was the side of the fas-
cinating city seen by Amy Castles in her
two years as prima donna at the Opera
House of Franz Josef. Only two of the six
years of her engagement had passed when
war broke out—-two years of glitter and
satin smoothness. But discipline was part
of the lot of the Court singer: every morn-
ing at 19 even though she was not rehears-
ing she had to call at the theatre to leave
her time-table for the day, and again at 5 in
the afternoon her movements for the even-
ing. Then the dignity of the position might
not be lost sight of in public. One might
not drop indiscriminately into cafe or rest-
aurant. Maxim’s was viewed only from
one of the tiers of boxes. Below spun and
chattered and intrigued every nation of the
world. Heels clicked, the jewelled hands of
women were kissed. Men regarded a box,
captured by the beauty of one of its occu-
nants. A note was written and sent em-
bowered in choice and the receiver,
though of royal descent, must not be offen-
ded, but must come to the front and bow
her thanks, and should she have placed a
flower or two in her corsage it was counted
an added graciousness. Then there was the
little Viennese cafe the size of a drawing-
room famed throughout the world of artists
whose pianist knew all the great stars and
their most noted arias. Upon the entrance
of one into the cafe his hands would slip
into that aria, and the unwritten law was
that the artist must from his place in front
of the little cafe table sing as though he
had received a royal command. And over
all the influence of Madame Kratz, friend
of the Emperor, with whom he plaved
bezique at 4 o’clock every morning.
The Vienna Opera House is fitted with
Royal boxes to right, to left, and farina
the stage, and before the first entry the
artist was told which boxes were occupied
It was a trying night when they were ali
lull, for that meant sweeping curtesvs to
right, to left, and last of all straight
for the box facing the stage was the Em-
peror’s own. Directly beneath, on the floor
of the theatre, was a large square reserved
for soldiers, where for 4d. the uniform might
listen to the greatest of the world's singers.
They were tremendous workers at the Opera
House, where every member of the company
was a star. Rehearse, rehearse, and still
again rehearse! Six weeks was old
“Bolibme” under way before the opening
performance. Selma Kurtz (for 15 years
she had been prima donna to the Court)
and Amy were alternating stars; yet every
day saw both at rehearsal. When Kurtz
walked the boards. Amy sat in the stalls
watching and learning When it was Amy’s
turn to be Mimi, Kurtz sat and watched
every detail of her work.
“Butterfly” was the role in which the
Viennese liked Amy best. And if you ask
her Amy will tell you the story of iier first
singing of “Butterfly.” It was on her first
tour with the Firm. J.C.W. asked “Does
Amy know ‘Butterfly’?” “Sure to know it
backwards !” somebody replied, so Amy was
cast for the part—not knowing a note of
it! The company was travelling between
cities, and Amy sat with the score on her
knee reading it as best she might. Some-
where or other, by Cod’s good chance, there
was a two-hours’ wait for a train. On the
station she sat humming the notes. The
local policeman became interested. “Sure,”
said lie, “run across to the house! There’s
a piano there, and you can be amusing
yourself.” Amusing herself! Like a bird
she flew to the policeman’s house and put in
two of the solidest hours’ study. And it
was in “Butterfly” Amy made her last
appearance in Vienna, coming back, and
back, and back once more to face a sea of
waving handkerchiefs— this girl from down .
under who had first learned the heart-
breaking music in a wayside police-station!
Of all her tours Amy likes best to linger
oi er the one she made in company with
barasate, Busoni and Edouard de Reszke.
Once when she was ill de Reszke came to
see her and spent a whole afternoon going
through his different parts, saying: “I get
this effect by ’—so and so, or “I turn thus
at that.” Those who
know Dresden will
remember the con-
ductor at the Kaim
concerts. His proud
possession was a
great gold cigar-case
on which he would
ask celebrities to
write their names,
to be afterwards en-
graved. After Amy’s
first appearance
under his baton lie
brought his treasure
to her, and hers is
the only name not
of Continental origin
written on the case.
Amy’s latest photo,
herewith, is by
Monte Luke.
Major Keith Williams, M.C., married
best-girl Winifred Blomfield, of Tamworth,
lfist week It happened at the North Sydney
G. of E. Grammar School chapel; and the
Rev. and Beloved “Taffy” Davies spoke the
mystic words, and added an extra blessing
tor an old boy who had been the pride of
the school’s boat crews and was long sec.
ot the Old Boys Union. The ’groom had an
audience of present-day scholars, and Major
Rutledge was next-best man. The bride’s
sott white charmeuse was arranged in the
vestibule by sister Constance and Josephine
Weedon, who added a dash of pink to their
bridesmaid whiteness. The wedding feast
was laid m a class-room of the school, and
the masters and their wives smiled goodwill
on Beatrice and Benedick.
Jack’s the boy all right—here’s still
another naval engagement! This time it’s
Margaret Falkiner Mcßeah and Paymaster-
Lieut. Reginald Egerton, attached to Jelli-
stall. He has been in the uniform since
1912. Margaret’s uncle is F. B. Falkiner
of Kambala House, Bellevue Hill, and
Reginald’s dad lives at Bath, where Beau-
caire and Brummel and Bellairs did their
dash.
The Congregational Chapel at Strathfield
put out a crop of flowering shepherd’s
crooks when bride Nell Todman walked up
the aisle to meet her medicine-man, Dick
Irancis. All in shimmering satin and tulle
/coci was followed by Doreen Hordern
(b Sam s unfolding bud) and dainty Flora
Cater—they were in pink taffeta, with a
trail of delphinium-blue velvet ribbon fall-
ing down the back of their frocks from neck
to hem. Bridegroom is of Brisbane; his
uncle was a Brisbane specialist w T ho now has
his plate in Harley-street.
Jessie Mcßobert didn’t have to wait for
her good looks till she put on her bridal
finery to meet Lieut. Diamond, who helped
to bring the Platypus and the gift sub-
marines to Australia. The wedding, at
Manly, was a quiet family affair, father—
long of the Robert Harper firm—being ill.
Then the young people went off to be happy
in the Mountains until the time came to
catch the Ormonde. The lieutenant, who
was called from the Na.. al 'Reserve for
service when the war started, returns to his
civil job in London.
The cable mentions baldly that the engage-
ment between Lord Carnegie, A.D.C. to
Lord Chelmsford, and the latter’s daughter
is off. The young man, who served in the
Scots Guards before going out to India,
was engaged to the middle girl of the three.
In Sydney she was a short-skirted and
thin-legged school-child. He is one of the
catches of British society, Lord Southesk,
his father, being very wealthy, apart from
his considerable estates.
Lady Doris Blackwood is engaged—
to a Lie ut.-Colonel Eager, who com-'
manded a machnie-gun team in Palestine.
Before she left Australia, where she
had been for some years as a guest of the
G.-G.’s, Lady Helen being her aunt, people
whispered confidently that she was plighted
to the Arthur Macarthurs’ only son. How-
ever, it never got beyond the rumor stage.
She is small and plump and fluffy, and was
immensely popular wherever she went in
this country.
The Catholic Women’s Federation had its
first ball at Paddington Town Hall last
week, and a flock of white-dove debutantes
danced beneath trellises of pink and mauve
blooms. A bower-like effect was gained by
bringing the intertwined floral trails down
low, and so soft was the coloring one quite
forgot the petals were mostly colored paper.
The debs, had learned their graceful curtsey
'in the one school, and their bouquets were
all alike —simplicities that gave youthful
charm to the presentation ceremony. Mrs.
John Barlow, in a frock that looked like a
bit of blue Arctic night, received the young
things, who were further presented to Pre-
mier Holman’s wife and graceful and good-
looking Mrs. Ryan of Queensland: The
northern lady wore a mixture of georgette
and charmeuse, and was all-black except for
(lie platinum band in her hair. Another
handsome frocker was Mrs. Trefle, who
mixed black and white georgette. Funds go
to help the Oxford-street hostel.
Muriel Window drops in out of breath:—
Have you heard about me? Talked about some-
thmg scandalous. Jf J tell you about it, will you
let em all in it? Well, 1 was asked to leave the
Paddington Town Hall dance last Wednesday night.
I really wasn't, but they say X was, so that’s that.
Here’s the way it happened. We went up to the
Wentworth to dance —eight in our party. At 12
o’clock someone decided on going to the Uni. Sports
Olub dance. As the hostess had tickets wc went.
We danced for an hour. On the way out they asked
us for our tickets and names. The hostess supplied
them and we left for home, liut some nice cat saw
us leave early and couldn’t rest, and purred to all the
other cats, and in less time than it takes to Jell it
was all around the hall that Miss Muriel Window
was asked to leave. ’Tisn’t safe to go home early i n
Sydney I can see.
The story is told that when Jellieoe found
that Beatty had been voted £lOO,OOO he
cabled to England to know if he might refuse
his £50,000. The reply came that there was
no precedent for such a refusal. It is
added in well-informed places that the
Admiral intends to use the whole of his grant
in the interests of the British seamen. His
devotion to his sailors was shown in more
ways than one when he was in Sydney.
Thus when the Government proposed to send
Hie officers of the fleet to the Mountains,
“Silent John” found his voice, and asked
that the sailors be sent instead, so 1200 of
them had a trip to Katoomba.
Mrs. Share is in Melbourne, visiting her
mother, who is the widow of Admiral
Bridges. She will not re-join the New Zea-
land, but will meet her captain later on in
England.
Next month the Governor and Lady
Davidson will visit the Northern tablelands
and North Coast districts. In October they
will sample Hay, and continue their journey
as far as the Murray.
The Exhibition in the Town Hall base-
ment last week fell down as heavily as
liumpty Dumpty in its claim to embrace
Australian industries, but the women who
attended it (most of them in the serviceable
togs of the student or the business woman)
torgot all that in their delight over the dis-
play of old-time outfits. Silks were there that
had been woven for beauty over a century
ago, before Freetrade afflicted England, and
when the fame of the hand-looms of Spital-
fields travelled even to the French silk
towns. One frock is of ivory brocade em-
broidered with roses as deeply red now as
when some old-time belle charmed a Bath
assembly, and maybe tried to forget a break-
ing heart beneath the witchery of a Mechlin
ruffle. There’s another demurely fascinating
with blue cornflowers in a silken field of ripe
grain.
Consul-General Brittain mobilised Ameri-
can citizens in Sydney at the Australia to
give the farewell hand to Mark Sheldon, who
succeeds H. Y. Braddon as the Common-
wealth’s Commissioner in U.$.A. As an
incidental, the newly-formed American
Society of N. S. Wales also received its bap-
tism. Proceedings opened in great style
with “God Save.” but “The Star-spangled
Banner,” which followed, got mixed with the
cocktails or something, and was lost on the
journey.
At 9.30 on Sept. 2 the eomers-out at the
Rose Ball will be received by Justice Cul-
len’s lady, and next night Nellie Stewart,
dressed as Nell Gwyn, will run an apprais-
ing eye over the kiddies’ fancy costumes at
the juvenile dance.
This is May
Moore’s photograph
of Roy de Mestre,
the young man whose
color theory has set
artistic Sydney talk-
ing. Roy was born
in Moss Vale, where
the poets come from,
and is of the De
Mestre racing family.
The young man, for
his part, has only
two vices : music and
color.
The Sam Horderns
gave another dance
at their big Darling
Point house last
week. Their enter-
tainments are the
most elaborate private affairs that Sydney
lias known for years; in fact, they resemble
the balls given in pre-war days by the
astonishingly hospitable Mrs. Payne, of Mel-
bourne, and commendation can’t climb
higher. Both the host and his wife dance
as vigorously as their daughters, the elder
of whom is just “out,” while the other is
meditating it.
Mrs. Harry Levy, who with her daughters,
Molly and Betty, left Australia, probably
for good, last week, has been one of Syd-
ney’s best-dressed and handsomest women
for 20 years. She and her husband lived
for a long time in Macleay-street, and later
rented a larger house on the heights of
Vyoollahra. They had not been long at Hill-
side, where she had plenty of scope for her
gifts as a hostess, when Harry Levy began
to sicken for the illness which ended in his
death. The family have a large stock of
reMions and friends in England.
T |f® Al ,' t Society opened its 40th show
on Saturday, when the gajjery in the Edu-
cation Buildings was crowded. Nobodv
looked very intently at the pictures. Now
and again a group of enthusiasts gathered
before a canvas, but mostly it was a ren-
dezvous for all the different bits of Sydney.
Bod Quinn turned a dreamy blue eye to-
wards some exquisite seascapes, but lie was
too well known to be given time for peaceful
contemplation. Mrs. Sherwood’s keen eye
interested her in everybody’s work; minia-
turist Gladys Laycock came with a party
to the view ; the Thomas Hugheses patronised
the arts: and ever so many other people
brought their rubber-tyred figures with them.
The Council of the Chamber of Manufac-
met at Farmer’s last week to plan
the Conquest of Australia. Master-retailer
Benjamin who might be called Solomon,
so wise were his words—said that before
everything else they must get the women
interested. Quite right; but. has Mr. Ben-
jamin ever entered a showroom and asked
for a woman’s hat made in Australia? Aim-
woman would tell him that it often requires
the courage of a Bodicea, the staying power
of a Spartan and the satire of a Swift to
get the desired shady leaf. On the other
ha-iia, ask for a Fisk or a Jay or a Gage,
and you have the attendants falling over
themselves. to produce the expensive
imported tile. Something is wrong, and it
isn’t always with the heart of the buyer.
Bishop Long, of Bathurst, who started his
career in the A.I.F. as a captain and fin-
ished up a General, is in Sydney staying
with the Earps. He is young, as gaitered
brethren go, a bachelor, and immensely pop-
ular in his diocese.
Stewart Dawson, venerable head of his
firm, has repatriated himself in Australia
after a decade in London. He has bought a
place in Springwood, and has landscape and
lettuce gardeners at work getting it ready
for his wife and daughter Bertha, who will
come this way as soon as they can get pas-
sages. Percy S. Dawson, a son, is a major
in the Flying Corps in war-soggy England.
Sydney High School Okl Girls are re-
minded that the 31st of this month is the
last day on which they can add their mite
to the Garvin Testimonial Fund, and that
the Book of Names will be at John Sands,
George-street, until the same date. The Old
Girl in the country is asked to send a speci-
men signature to Miss Slack, Girls’ High
School, Crow’s Nest.


m
9
, SP
1
'M
imp
0 0 0
"r=
l r f ; ;:v -
-
fa ' H.#
sss
■
)/, v>V
I
"* \ I
m
f <0 )
m*<.
V «V
t •/,
v*' v?
i
Motor Cars
\M
*4
jgppjj
®J
The Farmer’s Car:
Economical to purchase and maintain —
light in weight electric lights and
electric starter completely equip-
ped — powerful, flexible, en bloc en-
gine — easy-riding cantilever rear
springs — deep, soft upholstery.
Complete Catalogue
on request.
Overland
A is popular the
world over among
farmers. It meets
every demand of rural
travel.
With it you save time in transporting
produce and supplies. You make neigh-
bours of your distant friends. And you
multiply your conveniences and the pleas-
ures of your family.
This Overland minds not swamp nor brush, muddy
roads nor steep hills.
Large wheels insure ample clearance. Cantilever rear
springs and strong axles insure easy riding. Electric
control buttons on the steering column insure ease of opera-
tion. Power, comfort, durability—all of these identify the
“Light Four”.
You will find that this Overland gives you more for the f
money than any other car of its class. \ f Y
May we demonstrate this completely equipped motor car ?
Australian Distributors—
GARRATTS LTD., Sydney
KELLOW-FALKINER PTY. LTD., Melbourne
AUTO-CARS LTD., Adelaide
EAGER & SON, Brisbane
ANDERSON & ADAMS LTD., Perth
H. G. HEATHORNE & CO. LTD., Hobart
A. HAT RICK & CO., Wanganui, N.Z.
N.Z. FARMERS' CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION, Christchurch, N.Z.
The Willys Overland Company, Toledo, Ohio.


The word
on your Collar means MORE
than ordinary satisfaction.
It stands for quality that is
proverbial; durability that is
not matched; value that
is paramount.
Pelaco Collars, Shirts and
Pyjamas are MADE IN
AUSTRALIA, and sold by
reliable Mercers everywhere.
COLLARS
“THERE’S MONEY IN THE PEN.”
The above;
is the title*
of our book-
let, which
tells about
the possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
bv HARRY J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
difference between
learning to CORY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains, in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
penny stamps
to-day for a
copy of this
booklet—
“THEßE’S
MONEY
IN
THE
REN.”
I
1^
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing',
144 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY.
Esterbrooß's Pens.
WJ E don’t give an apprentice poor tools when
** learning his trade. The Pen is the writer’s
tool. It is mistaken economy to buy inferior Pens
for children learning to write. Perfect handwriting
will never be attained with a poor pen Learners
have a light to the best.
Send 2ld. in stamps for cost of postage on Free
Samples to
ESTERBROOK, Box 98 G.P.0., Sydney.
AGNES PLATT,
4 Manchester St., London, W. England.
Advice given on plays, novels, cinemas.
Manuscripts placed. Plays produced.
Correspondence course in stage, novel
and cinema technique.
PARIS
GARTERS
No mefal
can ioucH yow>
f
“ Paris’ ’ Garters
Comfortable Garters.
Look for the trademark
—your assurance of value
and service.
Obtainable all Mercers.
Indents and Wholesale:
Walter Cathro Pty. Ltd., 50 York St., Sydney.
X
THE
“WINTON.
The Perfect
WINTON.
The “Winton” Stock Saddle is with-
out doubt the most comfortable high-
pad stock saddle made. Note how the
flap is seamed direct on to the >eat,
doing away with a skirt, and giving a
narrow, non-chafing grip. Then note the
position of the pads, high up along
the rider’s thighs, giving perfect
security.' The flaps are long and the
panel has broad leather points down
each side, extending beyond the flaps.
The tree is our own “Fouright” tree,
with steel plating and steel stirrup
bars. The fittings included are folded
girth, bevelled leathers and solid
nickel, 3-bar stirrups.
f*
Freight Free for
Cash to anyN.S.W.
Port or Station on
the N.S.W. Railway System.
Send your height and weight
with order. AVrite for our fine Catalogue—l3o pages.
Buyers in other States, write for Special freight terms.
Waither 8 Stevenson Ltd.,
SADDLERS,
393 George St., oydftCy.
BOSTOCIi’S—THE ECONOMY SHOE POLISH
Wo wish to stress the fact that ECONOMY is one of the chief attributes of
Bostock Shoe Dressings. It is economical by virtue of the fact that it is more
than a mere polish.
Containing, as it does, ingredients which nourish and preserve the leather, it gives
longer life to footwear.
With the cost of shoes mounting
higher and higher, the daily use
of Bostock’s, with its leather-
preserving qualities, is particu-
larly desirable.
THE SIGN OF
A GOOD SHINE
Colors: Black, Brown, Dark
Brown, Ox Blood and White.
In Tins, Bottles and lubes.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Bostock’s Violo Polishes, Ltd.
. . SYDNEY. . .
THE HIGH COST of LIVING
and
The Low Cost of Shaving.
Five Shaves for a Penny. That is the cost of shav-
ing with the WORLD’S BEST.
WILLIAMS'
You may perhaps get as many as Eight Shaves fo •
a Penny with the Second Best. Is the chance’worth
taking ?
WILLIAMS’ SHAVING STICK easily lasts four
months—-one hundred and twenty shaves for 2/-.
Five Shaves for a Penny.
If your Chemist hasn’t got it, don’t blame us. Send
us 2/- in stamps and you will receive Williams’
Holder Top Shaving Stick by return post.
“Williams,” Box 98 (i.P.0., Sydney.
Williams’
Holder Top
Shaving
Stick.
l.egal Notice.
T N THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENSLAND.
1 MATRIMONIAL JURISDICTION.
No. 21 of 1919.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE.
BETWEEN
WILLIAM AH SEE Plaintiff and EVELYN MARY
All SEE Defendant and GEORGE FERBER Co-
Defendant.
To the Defendant Evelyn Mary Ah See and to the Co-
Defendant George Berber.
TAKE NOTICE that this action was on the
fourteenth day of January 1919 commenced against
you AND that the plaintiff by his writ of summons
claims a dissolution of his marriage with the de-
fendant Evelyn Mary Ah See and by his petition
filed in this Honorable Court on the fourteenth day
if January 1919 the plaintiff alleges that in or
about the month of May 1916 and on other days
between that month and the month of December
1916 the said Evelyn Mary Ah See committed
adultery at Paddington Brisbane aforesaid and at No.
2.1 Cainpbell-street Milson’s Point Sydney in the
State of New South Wales with the above-named
George Ferber who was during the period above
mentioned a soldier in the Australian Imperial
Forces and that during the months of May to De-
cember all in the year 1916 and in the month of
January in the year 1917 the said George Ferber
visited the said Evelyn Mary Ah See at Paddington
Brisbane aforesaid and lived and cohabited with the
said Evelyn Mary Ah See at No. 25 Campbell-street
Milson’s Point Sydney in the State of New South
Wales aforesaid and on divers of such occasions at
Paddington Brisbane and at Milson s Point aforesaid
committed adultery with the said Evelyn Mary Ah
See and prays to have such further or other relief
in the premises as to the Court might seem meet.
\ND TAKE NOTICE that the Court has by order
lated the thirtieth day of July 1919 authorised
ervice of the said writ and petition on you by
axing on the notice-board in the Registry of this
honorable Court at Brisbane an office copy of the
vrit, of summons issued herein and the office copy
if the petition filed herein and the insertion of this
notice twice in The Bvm.etjn a newspaper pub-
islitd in Sydney in the State of New South Wales
nice in the Brisbane Cockier and once in the Bris-
>ane Teceukaph within thirty days from the date
if the said order and by sending by prepaid regis-
ered letter three copies of such notice addressed to
ie defendant to the care respectively of George
Purvey No. 2 Railway Workshop Ipswich Mrs. Mor-
gan Annerley-road South Brisbane and Mrs. Conn
TAtrobe-terrace Paddington Brisbane and two copies
of such notice addressed to the co-defendant care of
the General Post Office Sydney and care of the Re-
patriation Department Sydney respectively AND
TAKE NOTICE that you the said Evelyn Mary Ah
See and George Ferber are required within thirty-
four days from the performance of the last act re-
quired by the aforesaid order to cause an appear-
ance to be entered for you at the Registry of the
Supreme Court of Queensland at Brisbane and that
in default of your so doing the plaintiff may pro-
ceed in this action and that judgment may be given
against you in your absence.
Dated this fifth day of August 1919.
(jj.s.) CHAS. S. NORRIS,
Registrar.
attiiow and McGregor,
Solicitors for the Plaintiff,
City Chambers, Queen and Edward streets,
Brisbane.
3
C 3
m
2KJ
n
THE
Self-
RON
ROYAL
Heating
is the very latest benzine-burning laundry
help. The iron without a pump—no in-
tricate parts to get out of order. Use clean
benzine, strain it through a chamois, which
it runs through as water does through
muslin, and you’ll have no trouble.
ASK TO SEE IT.
In SYDNEY—AIex. Smith Etd.
F. Eassetter & Co. Ltd.
Mark Toy's Etd.
Nock & Kirby Etd.
The Civil Service Stores.
In BRISBANE—Barry & Roberts.
In PERTH—William Sandover & Co.
Or the Agents will send it to any address in Aus-
tralia, post paid, on receipt of 30/-
Address —“Royal Iron,” Box 98 G.P.0.,
Sydney.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submittedj and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
C. Klaus: (1) No race. (2) The rule
is the backer loses half what he would have won if the
horse had won alone, and he also loses half his stake.
At £3 to £1 the book would pay the backer £2.
.. . .Grade X : Already handled... .Digger (Q.) :
Sorry to hear diseased men are getting out of the
Enoggera compound. Write to the local member,
supplying proofs iii the form of names, dates, etc.
N. D. Well: Close up Timor Material good
enough; but not well enough carpentered... S.W.P.:
You can see it coming too far down the road....
Ex-Englishman: But the gibe is against the Superior
Person and his starchiness.... Mulgaite: “A Silent
Punishment” wants to be delivered better. ... Boo-
borowite: Must report the Digger’s sad home-coming:
There on the wharf she was standing,
Her cheeks so nice and red.
As he clasped her to his bosom,
Alas! She fell back dead.
She might have been a sport and put it off till next
day....C.8.: “Song of a Gumtree” has as much
harmony as there is between the C.S.lt. Co., and a
Commission of Inquiry... .Seebee: “Bad Luck” not
agreeable. .. .0. Gunner: There’s a paragraph in it.
. ...G.8.D.: “The Last Straw” won’t help to make
paper... .John F.: “On the Booze with Alexander ’
is too tottery. If you were thinking of Alexander
the Russian you should have put a horseshoe in your
pen. He was the Prince of Boozers and perhaps
it’s just as well you didn’t meet him... .lota: “The
Teaser” and “A Spring Song” might be raffled —if
the worst comes to the worst... .H.8.L.: “Jack in
Office” is fired D. Ross: Parodies must be well
done —for other papers lohn Budd: You mean
well; and disaster has always dogged the well-
meaning... .Rosa N.: To start with, they don’t like
to be called “heroes.” In fact, they detest it....
Hannibal: And yet the “sectarian” writer you refer
to is an Ulster Protestant, so the argument runs a
little thin M.S. (Brisbane): Can’t find out what
the “Longshore Thoughts” are... .R.S.Y.S.: Why do
you always try to make Australians speak as if they
came from New Jersey ? Jim T.: You want good
wind to take a mouthful like that without a stop. ..
W.A.W.: Not up Jack A. W. : Not this trip
Rus in Urbe: That cat story comes in about once a
fortnight. . . .R.W. (Perth) : Heaven forgive you. We
can’t till the pain of it dies down a little. . . .
Oliver B.: You are never better than when in the
mood of ecstatic patriotism :
Now that the boys are home with us again,
That built the Empire’s destiny;
May it always be their greatest aim,.
And never part from apostasy.
Oh ! may we never forget that they fought our needs,
And caused all Nations to gaze ;
To think of our seed that done the greatest of deeds
That took the lead to cause the World’s amaze.
Now that the boys of Australia have proved
That they are the men of to-day ;
To get us out of that ugly groove,
May they never be forgotten from day to day.
. ...J.W. (Melbourne): Doesn’t make its meaning
clear. ... B.B.B.: Some stories can be written, othe:s
can only be told. The convention cramps us all.
. ...R.C. (Newcastle) : “A God’s Blunder” would
be ours if we printed it. . . .C.L.G.: Doesn’t look fresh.
...M.W. (Rushcutter’s Bay) : Bright, but not in the
order of reference... .C.D.C.: “Free” doesn’t make a
yarn. .. . J.L.H.: Those “tramps” are too commonplace.
...8.G.M.: Neither of them up. . .E.O. (Cairns) : Not
quite. Shoot again. . . .E.M.L.: Goes a bit thinly. . .
G.F.D.: “Almond Blossom” is an echo and a poor
one. “Working Man” runs all astray in the metre...
Plough: A man must have an ear likd a horse-radish
to rhyme “eyes” with “fires” and “age” with
“caves.”... .E.W.8.: “Big John” doesn’t convince.
G.L.T.; “Pirates” might find a market else-
where E.M.E. : Not up K.W.C. : Verse poor.
“Brothers” is crude melodrama.... Chanco: Nicely
done, but too slight. .. .H.E.: “Death-bed” and
“Reading” without a gleam of interest. .. .Idsworth:
You had the material, but it isn’t made into a yarn.
Get to work on it. . . .G.E.M.: “Jim Dear” not for
this paper. .. .N.G. (Warwick): The play doesn’t
read as well as it might act; but it’s very grim and
fragmentary. Yarn held for consideration....
Ginger Mick: A dud. . .A.E.M.: A few commonplaces
about Thompson, introducing a stanza of his best-
known verse, do not thrill us W.G.W.: A mass
of words merely makes us angry. Cultivate a sense
of humor G.R.H.: “Julius” not bright enough.
Xavia: Only skims the surface of the matter....
M.N. (Melbourne) : “Betty” hasn’t enough flesh on
her bones E.E.8.: Sorry, but your “drunkard de
luxe” isn’t de luxe enough. .. .K.S.: Not particularly
gay Bourri: Rather heavy fooling. .. .P.F. : Very
thin stuff along well-worked lines. Why don’t you
take a pen-name instead of initials 1... . Darby : Held
for consideration E.G.8.: Verses not nearly up
J.M.M.: You’ve a weary long way to go E.M.S.:
No use T.G.W.: Held for consideration
J.H.: “Vignette,” “Harmony” and “Fire” all fail
in the old way.... Merrie-Mickie: Too much of it
for the small point W.J.T.: “San Lorenzo” ends
on a note of commonplace.... Dave: A bad parody
of a poor original is no use. The alleged Scotch
stuff only hurts.... Pamela: It’s the easiest thing
in the world to string loose verses that say nothing
much.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Jack .K.: They look like early experiments--
period about 3 a.m A. 8.: No eggs to-day....
F. Fitz: By 1930 any shirking father will have a
brilliant war-lie ready for his inquisitive child
J.C.: Ulysses Hughes is coming home with pomp
and ceremony. You’ve got him walking home like
an insolvent actor R.T.: The spectacled critic
should be more grotesque to carry the idea....
Titian: You drew better when you were working in
Venice for Philip 11. of Spain.... F.P.: The stamp
will take them home again* Study and use proper
materials. . . .C.F.: Don’t like your clockwork Jews.
Ruth T.: The seasick joke has to be very good
or it is flung overboard. .. .G.D.: Beads of sweat on
that gag's brow O.B.: Two small, expressionless
figures S.H.: The small child deserves his punish-
ment for being so badly drawn... .E.F.C.: The fact
that it was used elsewhere rules it out. Incidentally,
that pen-name is the property of a well-known Syd-
ney writer. .. .Henry W.: You are young, Henry, and
probably didn’t know that your grandfather chuckled
over the fish jest when he was in short pants. . . .
D.D.: Nothing but fire could improve it....E.T.:
The two flat human beings should be fitted with
hinges instead of joints. .. .0.C.V.W.: Gentle ama-
teur, do not thank us in anticipation!..:. C.1.C.:
Study and repent... .C.V.J.D.: Not yet. You know
.something, but need to know mor/e V. : Too
local. . . .Plaze: Too rough. . . .K.M.L.: Only half a
smile in it. .. . A.C.W.: Not a bad try.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
Hireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
huxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
rnvate Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
I< or all information regarding sailing
fares’ an< * Second- and Third-class
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel. —Citv 4246, o a « • o.
' 4247* b Spring Street,
4Sio! Sydney.
Sydney to England
via
the Allied Route,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, SEPTEMBER 10.
VENTURA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Telephone: City 2282. 44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Dunking. Public Companies. Sc.
tub;
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY
ICt. (Chairman); WILLIAM DAVIES; E. IL
MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ; lion. Sir ROBERT PIIII p
K.C.M.G.; Hon. A'. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.'
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO.OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 691,850 10 0
Reserve Fund 272,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stuck 3,091,069 4 5
All new business since 1803 specially protected.
Directors Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. TV. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love. Esq.;
W. H. Hart, Esq.; Joseph Hughes, Esq., 1.5.0.
General Manager —W. V. IiALSTON.
IIIC.\I> OFFICE - 15 KlSltA NE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
tli rough out Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.'
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1!m!679
Reserve Fund £160,000
Directors : HERBERT R. LYSAGIIT, Esq., Chairman •
MARK SHELDON, Esq. ; GEORGE J. SLY, Esq.’
LL.D. ; FRANK N. YARWOOD, Esq. ; GEORGE f!
TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon. F. JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and Kino-
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES;
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Chief Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. 11. Howell.
MELBOURNE . (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedie Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 146 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of Now Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH;
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock..
Preference Shares. .
£529,988
750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up 1,000.000
Uncalled Capital . . . . . . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,496,224
GRANTS DRAFTS on Australia, New Zea-
UlinlM I O Unfir I O land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts all other usual Banking
at Interest for
fixed periods, find
business.
MACDONALD,
HAMILTON 8 CO.
Managing Agents for
Australasian’United Steam Navigation C£i d .
Central Queensland Meat Export Co. Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates Ltd.
Blackheath Collieries Limited.
HEAD OFFICE : BRISBANE.
Shipping, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST, FASTEST. AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
R.M.S. NIAGARA.
R.M.S, MAKURA.
The most beautiful Scenery in the World—the Canadian Rockies —is on the All-Red Route.
Tl»e Prairies, the Great Lakes, Chicago, Niagara Falls and New York can all be visited.
Through bookings to all Canadian, United States and European points.
Stop-overs on the Railways Arranged.
CALL OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS OF THIS ROUTE.
PASSENGERS CAN CHANGE AT HONOLULU INTO A DIRECT STEAMER FOR
SAN FRANCISCO.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of tile United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can he wen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
fg
ISLAND TOURS.
Now is the Time to Visit the PACIFIC ISLANDS.
DELIGHTFUL TOURS to
NORFOLK ISLAND and NEW HEBRIDES.
SOLOMON ISLANDS.
PAPUA and RABAUL.
Trips of Four, Five and Seven Weeks’ Duration.
BURNS, PHILP # CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
NK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
fg
fg
Directors:
£3,912,440
£3,100,000
£3,912,440
£10,924,880
The Hon. Sir Lnarles K. MacKcllar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.G., President.
F. B. S. Falkiner. E>q., M.H.R.
The Hon. Resrihald .T. Black, M.L.C.
Auditors :S. E. Laidlev, Esq.; A. G. Milson, Esq.
Thomas Bucldand, Esq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
General Manager: Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
Head Office—(George Street, Sydney. London Office—*9 Thread needle Street, E.C.
340 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
dommomvealtb;
HEAD OFFICE
fg
JM or 3u6tralta
SYDNEY. ■
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain),
also London (2), and A.I.F. Camps in England,
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and SAVINGS BANK AGENCIES at 2776 Post Offices
throughout Australia, Papua, New Britain, Solomon Islands,
and The Pacific.
JAMES KELL, DENISON MILLER,
Deputy Governor 1919 Governor
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1834.
fg
v
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses, M.L.C.
J. W. Macarthur Onslow, Esq.
0. E. Friend, Esq.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout Is’ew South Wales and Queensland.
London Branch: 18 Birchln Lane, E.C.
London Bankers—The Bank of England; The London County, Westminster and
Farrs Bank, Limited; Barclays Bank, Limited.
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Shipping.
Sydney Inter-State
Sub-Committee.
INTER-STATE SAILINGS SUSPENDED
OWING TO STRIKE.
Huddart Parker LIM
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND.—ReguIar sail-
ings between Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand
ports and vice versa; particulars to be obtained on
application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA.—From Sydney to
Hobart and vice versa every three weeks. Between
Melbourne and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Ceorge Street, Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
I'WEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Miirwillumhah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 Us.; second-class rail and steerage on
steamer, £4 6s.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST.. SYDNEY.
A.U.S.SM. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE FINE TWIN-SCREW STEAMER
“L.BVUKA,” 6500 tons,
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
The “Levulta” is fitted with wireless and with
every modern convenience for the comfort of passen-
gers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 26
days, and from Sydney 18 days. Passengers desiring
a more extended tour can travel by S.S. “Antra,”
which connects at Suva.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald
Hamilton & Co., 40!) Collins Street,
Melbourne, or Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.,
’!) Bridge Street, Sydney.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
Favorite Mail Route to Japan, with connections
at Japan to
EUROPE AND AMERICA.
Tours can be arranged to China, Japan, Korea,
bv this Line.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN.
Via Brisbane, Townsville, Thursday
Island, Zamboanga, Manila, Hongkong,
Nagasaki, Kobe, and Yokohama.
Passengers must obtain from the Quarantine
Authorities permits to leave New South Wales at least
three days before the steamer’s departure.
SPECIAL NOTICE. —All Passengers proceeding to
JAPAN must have their Passports vised by the Con-
sul-General for Japan in accordance with the regula-
tions of the Japanese Government
Full particulars of Sailing Dates, Passage Money,
Freights, etc., apply
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LTD.,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
SYDNEY OFFICE: 105 PITT STREET.
Paid-up Capital . . . . . . £500,000
Reserve Fund .. . . . . . 570,000
' £1,070,000
Uncalled capital .. .. . . 125,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 625,000
£1,820,000
lead Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 85 Branches and Agencies in that State.
/)NDON Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
M
A Clear Complexion
Constipation disfigures the com'
plexion with pimples and blotches-
Poisonous matter which should have
been expelled from the system is
retained and gives rise to impurities
in the blood.
Pinkettes quickly clear away all
offending matter without the least
griping or discomfort. They are a
corrective for bad breath, will clear
the complexion, and are recom-
mended for torpid liver, biliousness,
headaches, constipation, and when-
ever a gentle laxative is required.
1/- per bottle at all dealers.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “The Bulletin.’
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


m
! W
m
V/a
l
rnmeam
mm®
y/A
57
SSFVZS'.' S^'J
a
te
fin 1-
nits’
J? 6«
gpSsk.v4§|^
Get the famous
Re-creation Instrument—
The NEW EDISON
THE NEW EDISON STANDS ALONE.
No other instrument—no matter how elaborately finished—could
sustain the severe tests to which The NEW EDISON has responded
with marvellous success; no other instrument is capable of bringing
out the overtones and sound colors of the original music.
THE NEW EDISON IS A RE-CREATION INSTRUMENT.
It Re-creates music in all its original beauty—without any
nasal or harsh sounds to mar its natural charm. World-famed
artists have proved that the Edison Re-creation of their voice or
playing cannot be distinguished from the original.
THE NEW EDISON DELIGHTS CULTURED MUSIC-LOVERS.
Persons who positively dislike ordinary “talking machines”
are showing their keenest appreciation of The NEW EDISON by
installing it in their homes.
Call for a demonstration, or—if this is not convenient—write
for full details, post free.
THOMAS A. EDISON. LTD., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
I
vC
Equip your
Staff with
Waternfran’s
(Ideal)
FouiitSiilPen
Speed up the Pen Work! Equipped with Waterman’s !
Ideal, your staff will accomplish more, with greater com- <
fort. Accounts will be got out to time, correspondence <
kept up to date, routine will run more smoothly. j
Waterman's Ideals are made in Three Types: “Pocket Self-Filling,” «
“ Safety,” and “ Regular.” Of Stationers and Jewellers everywhere.
L. G. SIoCLH, Ltd. Center London , England . j
Australia : Harold D. Dixon, 106, Clarence Street, Sydney. \
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell 8 Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Offioe—
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
d
fg
/"IEORGE HOTEL,
«St. Kilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
HORLI
MALTED
CK'S
MILK
For dispelling that tired feeling—for building up debili-
tated and depleted energies— take Horlick’s. liorlick’s
Malted Milk is the Ideal Food-Drink and is made
in a moment with the addition of water only.
I
©
*mt,
““'•k c«mu»
s»»»*
N*
No Shortage of Supplies. Ample Stocks throughout Australia?
OF STERLING VALUE. RIGID and RELIABLE.
WE HAVE AN UNRIVALLED SELECTION.
COMBINED
KNIFE, FORK & SPOON,
all metal, very strong.
Price 2/» post free.
“SUNOL” Pocket Lighters.
Better than Matches.
Price 2/- each, post free.
m
83. Harrington and Richardson’s
D.8.8.Ji. Gun, 16-, 20- or 28-gauge, top
lever, case-hardened frame, 26in. barrels, both choke;
weight about 541 b freight paid,
£5lO/-
s**S Sunol Tobacco
Awarded 4 Gold Medals.
2oz. Sample 1/2, Post Free.
gh
inch barrels, both choke,
patent fore-ends, highly
825. Altendorf and Wright’s High-grade
English D.8.8.L. Gun, 12-gauge, bo-, 30-
top action cross-bolt, spring strikers, rebounding locks,
engraved, matted rib, weight about 7lib. Freight paid,
£lB/18/-
“Koolah” Shaving Sticks
Delightful to Use. 7d. each, post free.
Owing to market fluctuations,
prices here quoted are subject
to change without notice.
fA
m
rebounding
about 71b.
823 c. The Cert Co.’s D.8.8L. Gun, 12-
gauge, top lever, 30in. steel barrels, extension rib,
locks, left choke, snap fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock, weight „ _
Freight paid, 3L>3
POWDER
Just arrived large shipment of Gunpowder.
You are advised to make an early purchase
AUSTRAL 3/9 lb.
DIAMOND GRAIN 5 - lb.
DUPONT’S SmoKeless for Guns 10/6 lb.
DUPONT’S SmoKeless for Rifles 11/9 lb.
E. C. SMOKELESS 11/9 lb.
PLEASE NOTE —Powder cannot be posted.
MINIMUM FREIGHT on any quantity
packed up to 281 b. is 10/-= in N.S.W.
We Repair All Kinds of Guns and Rifles
f
826. Midland Gun Co.’s D.8.8.1i.
Pigeon Gun, 12-gauge. top action, bar locks.
Greener cross-bolt, high-filed rib, 28-inch steel
barrels, both choke, D. & E. fore-end side clips, chambered for 2£in. cartridges,
beautifully engraved, weight about 7slb Freight paid,
£l4/14/-
TiTirTTiufa
834. Remington Browning Automatic Repeating
Shot Gun, 12-gauge, slide grip, steel barrels, take-down
system, magazine holds six cartridges ; £,ll/111-
weight about 71b Freight paid.
Steven’s
5.8.8. L. Gun,
12- or 16-gauge,
r
top action, solid case-hardened frame, decarbonised steel barrel, 30in. or 32in.
pistol grip, walnut stock; weight about 611 b. Gun can be taken apart, same as
an ordinary Double-barrel Gun. AlltO-EjSCtOr /O ostag
;e—2/6 N.S.W.:
Inter-State.
ILLUSTRATED SPORTSMAN’S GUIDE POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESB.
1C
'immcnsM
fIUSTMLm'S GREATEST
SPORTS OUTFITTERS *
arm tobacconists
g
City Snorts Depot
99 Kir it 6 St, also &t
1 Brisbane


Another Bonny Rexona Baby
Is Your Little One a Rexona
Baby too ?
Baby DOROTHY ' HARMAN, aped 12 months (from
a photo).
Mother-wisdom knows that the little
one could not croon that baby-song of
happiness unless she was clean and cool
and comfortable in every fibre of her little
body. Look at the bonnie limbs, feel
the firm flesh, touch the velvet cheeks.
Can’t you guess? She’s a Kexona baby,
of course. Each day mother bathes her
little treasure with pure Rexona Soap,
the baby’s own soap, that destroys
disease germs, and keeps the tender skin
clear and healthy. She keeps colds,
rashes, chafing and other baby-ills far
from her. Baby is the best thing
she has, and the best of Soaps is only
just good enough for her. That is why
die is a Rexona Baby, See?
Dear Sirs, —
Please find enclosed my
baby’s photo (Dorothy). She
is 12 months old, and I have
always used Kexona Soap to
wash her, and site has a most
beautiful, clear and soft com-
plexion, I can recommend
Rexona Soap to any mother
for baby’s use.
Trusting you will like my
baby’s photo,
I remain, yours faithfully,
Mrs. R. HARMAN,
Butcher Street, St. Arnaud,
Victoria.
Rexona Soap—a Treat for the Bath
A morning: liatli with
Rexona Soap In not only a
pleasure but a health-
giving habit. The essences
and juices which have
made Rexona, the Rapid-
healing Ointment, a house-
hold necessity, are intro-
duced Into Rexona Soap,
and in your hath are
absorbed into the skin of
tiie whole body. The re-
sult is skin henitli and
skin protection. When the
pores have absorbed the
pure aroma of the lierhs
embodied in Rexona one
is protected from colds or
disease. Rexona Soap is
a favorite with the most
fastidious, and with the
most prudent of peoi»le.
fclMI
V'/AV.
'aV/s.
vm
WSk
mm
',?///<
zv,
'AA/'y
m
i
TOILET. BATH
HEALS ANp
PUPIFIES
a
SKIN & FACIAL
A/a)
WSa:
WiWM
wwm.
ra
!AA
?A?,
%%
'/'A
m
Large and Lasting' Tablet.
Price 1/-
Westclox
Westclox is the trade mark on the dial
of every timepiece made by the Western
Clock Co. It is a pledge of quality.
TDIG BEN, Baby Ben,
and Sleep-Meter are
the best known Westclox
timekeepers,
All Westclox alarms
keep good time. They
all have the patented
Westclox construction—a
better method of clock
making.
To ring on time, an
alarm clock must run on
time.
• *
Western Clock Co .-makers ofW):
Big Ben 17/f>, Baby Ben 17/6, America 7/6, Sleep-Meter 10/6, Eoyproof Watch 7/6
La Salle. 111.. U. S. A.
Factories at Peru. 11l
The Dream-Galleon.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT happens sometimes, when upon the sea
There shines no single light,
And seething waves—each wave a
mystery—
Speed shoreward, sheeted white,
is ioll comes, and taking charge of me
Reveals a magic sight.
!• rom out the dark with strange and wizard
skiU
She carves a wondrous craft,
Quaint rigged, low hulled, yet stout and
shapely still,
Sails swelling fore and aft,
< hi which the world’s loud winds have worked
their will —
Stormed, shouted, sobbed and laughed.
No ships sail now of such a shape and hue
As this dream-galleon ;
The Pour Winds and the Seven Seas well
knew
Her like in days agone,
hen over realms of gold and silver flew
The Spanish gonfalon.
The dream-mood grows: and by the subtle
grace
Of Hsion’s wizardry,
Through mists of time and over leagues of
space
With musing eyes I see
Grave merchant folk that walk with
measured pace
Upon a wave-worn quay.
-My ship, my galleon of the darkness lies
Reside that quay at rest,
Rate come, no doubt, from Southern shores
and skies,
Her great sails looped and tressed ;
Her hull sunk deep with Spanish merchan-
dise,
A good and welcome guest.
To pay her court come merry youth and
maid,
Frieze-clad or in green gown;
While near and far, sails spread and anchors
weighed,
Tall ships move up and down ;
For this was long ago, when Spanish trade
Flowed into Galway Town.
There might be seen, with raven beards and
curls,
Tall captains, eyes a-shine,
In velvets dressed, with Moorish rings and
pearls
And swords of rare design.
Come north to woo the red-lipped Galway
girls
With phrase and frenzy fine.
Then Time was slow, and ships had laggard
sails,
And good it was to sit
Safe-moored at last, no more the sport of
gales,
And watch the hearth-gleams flit,
And toasted be in strong-brewed Spanish ales
Enriched by Irish wit.
And then were heard the harpers, grey and
old,
Who told, and told again, «
Of Meave long dead, the beautiful and bold,
Renowned of tongue and pen—
Her shields, her spears, her chariots of gold,
Her fighting Connaught men.
Though Time divide, because my fore-folk
dwel t
Beside the Western sea
On Galway’s coast, the yearning that they
felt
Are felt again by me —
The dreams, the visionings that keep the
Celt
A Child of Ancientry.
For, though the world may flout with jeers
and gibes,
And fools his doom enscrol.
The dreamer dreams, unmindful! of the bribes
That wealth and power may dole;
Grey Galway cliffs, grey City of the Tribes,
So keep and guard my soul!
For to its moulding went the sunset’s
gleam,
The loud winds’ midnight roar,
Grey rain, grey mist, grey mystery, grey
dream,
Folk-tale and faery-lore,
Hy-Brasil lights and singing seas that
stream
Along a haunted shore.
The dream-hour ends, its splendor and
regret;
New music thrills r~y frame—
The chant of unhistoric seas that yet
Shall shout the deathless fame
Of heroes, laurelled by a world made wet
With blood, and red with flame.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Timber and Iron.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE car bearing the thick timberman
and his larger friend had rolled
through Logan village in the dusk,
and passed Wonglepong and Tambourine in
the cold moonlight that took it into Can-
ungra; the mill silent for Sunday, a pine
boarding-house showing lights, and a warm
star faltering through tiie cold air until the
mountain hid it. There was an air of cold
devotion about the house, and the timber-
man and his friend went to bed early in
one room, and passed the bottle once or
twice. By and bye the finger of John Barley-
corn touched them, and they slept.
At least, they took turns sleeping, the
wakeful one of the moment entertained by
the snores of the other; for both were good
doers, and they slept as they did most other
things, which was with great energy. The
large friend of the timberman had to do with
iron, and if iron had not entered his soul it
possessed his snore. The timberman’s snore
had a softwood sort of note, so that asleep
he sounded like a xylophone ; but the iron-
master snored with variations as of gal-
vanised-iron falling down stairs and of a
400-gallon tank beaten with the fist. The
timberman’s snore was disconcerting, but
not impossible; and the ironmaster, capable
of close mental concentration, resolutely
closed his ears and brain to it and banished
it utterly by thinking of the noise of a 10-
head mill running on hard quartz. From
that concentration he passed to utter dis-
regard of the timberman’s snoring until it
was not, and then to Nirvana. A few
minutes after he slept the 10-head mill
sounded as if it had moved into the room.
It pierced the sub-consciousness of the
timberman ; he turned in bed—-woke —and so
was lost.
“Boom ! Boorak! Phitt!”
The timberman cursed his luck, punched
his pillow, remembered that the offender was
his friend, and decided to bear it a little in
the hope of the ironmaster waking or dying.
Meantime he drew the sheet about his ears
and tried to forget the world.
" B-o-o-o-o-o-gncah / What /”
The timberman counted all the trees on 15
imaginary acres—trees that timbermen dream
of and never see; pines 200 ft. high and
32ft. girth; maple going 40 trees to the
acre, each tree cutting 10,000 ft., and the
royalty a penny a hundred. But trees only
made him the more wakeful.
“ Arrh! Boom! Whuff! Boom! Kwark!"
Still clinging desperately to the duty of
friendship, the timberman put away from
him the temptation to hate the ironmaster
with a bitter hatred. lie smothered a desire
to curse him to the third and fourth genera-
tions, and tried to feel that the teachings of
('hristianity are not impossible of practice.
The snorer suddenly gasped and changed the
rhythm of his deliverance to the second
movement of his symphonv.
“Ork! Ork! Orlt! Boom! Ork! Ork!
Boom!"
The phrasing ended alternately in a Whip
crack and a sudden (though, alas, momen-
tary) suspension of all sound—as if the
snore had been cut off by a sharp knife. The
timberman cursed silently, and tried to think
that lie still liked the snorer; but, finding that
consideration of that nose of iron and a
lung-power callable of driving seven air*
drills was making him feel enmity, he forced
his mind to address itself to sleep by remem-
bering all the very homely poetry lie knew:
Darling, I am growing old—
“Ork! Boom!"
Silver threads among the—
“Phitt!"
“Oh, damn you, George—turn over, you
cow, turn over!”
“Ork.[! Ma!! Boom!! Ork!!"
The ironmaster continued to spread the
mad tidings of noise on earth and ill-will
to all men. His snore had pulled out its
stops, and he threw in the knee-swell, dia-
pason, double-forte and full organ—all in now
except the vox hurnana. A mental trick fol-
lowing the recognition of the snorer’s house-
shaking sounds of his double contra posaune
drew the timberman’s thought to organs, and
that suggested Italians, consumptive mon-
keys in soldiers’ clothes, and, finally, “The
Lost Chord.” The ironmaster repeated it,
and found it soothed him ; and, although the
iron nose still continued its second-reading
speech, broken by the interjections of all
the. Opposition speaking at once, he was
beginning to. hope. But just then the snore
lost its quality of a symphony and became
several fugues and ops.
Seated one day at the organ
I was weary and ill at ease—
“ O-o-o-h! B-o-o-m! G-r-to-ic-iv! G-r-iv-w!
Phitt! B-o-o-m-o-o — g-r-w-lc!”
I-he timberman was wide awake immedi-
ately—wide awake and enraged. He jumped
from the bed and shook his one-time friend,
who opened his eyes, smiled sweetly, and
said, . Goo’ Ted,” and snored again. Then
the timberman shook him wale awake and
: T m f y ° U Snol ' e again Fll thl ' oW b°°tS,
and 111 get the ammunition now.” The
sleepy ironmaster smiled at him and said
Goo again, but slept .without sound for a
minute or so. and the timberman knew hope
once more. For all that he collected his own
and his one-time friend’s boots, and the
soap, and the. soap-dish, and returned to bed
to count a million sheep.
“O-r-k! Ork! Boom — ork!"
A boot struck the snorer’s stomach and
he groaned and bit the snore in two. The
timberman counted 217 sheep.
“Boom ! Gnew—phitt!"
Another boot and the soap, and a silence
that lasted so long that the sleepless man,
holding a boot in readiness, at last began
to crave for the snore to be resumed. Then
he sat upon the bed ready to fire, and
awaited, nervously expectant, for the re-
sumption of hostilities. Still silence; the
timberman put the boot on the floor,
making no sound, and laid himself down
again, praising Allah.
“Ork! Boom! Porrulc — phitt A”
dish^ 16 an d its fellow and the soap-
“Onk! Onk /”
\ hut a moment and then the
“Jessup! Puff puff! Phitt! Onk—loom!"
May the - said the timberman,
getting out of bed and rolling up the bed-
clothes and mattress. The new sounds
pierced the consciousness of-the snorer; he
awoke, and, seeing his mate staggering to
the door with his burden, and trying to
pull it out of his own hands bv standing
on the trailing sheet, which finafly he took
up with an incorporation of sundry articles
from the floor, the ironmaster said: “H’lo
old man, time to get up? Wha’ for, Ted"'”
“You’ve won, that’s all. You’ve won.”
i! 1 , r igbt oF man, if you’ll be more
comf’ble— Arrh ! Onk !"
Cursing him root and branch the timber-
man left the room and made his bed in
tlm passage-way. The linoleum was cold
and seemed to strike its cold through the
mattress. The chill wind moaned round
the building and entered under the door •
but the snoring seemed to be dwindling
and the evicted one addressed himself to
sleep. Then the snore became as noisy as a
gang of shipwrights; the pine house'crepi-
tated to it; and the timberman, cursing
the world and all that therein is, resigned
himself to the only way—that of getting his
(Continued on next page.)


f
Get at the cause of your illness.
It is a waste of time trying to cure
the symptoms when the cause is
deep-rooted. If you suffer with back-
ache or weak back, headache, ner-
vousness, gravel, urinary disorder,
irregular action of the heart, dizzi-
ness, retching, pale complexion, etc.,
stop and think. “What causes my
trouble?” “Why am I ill?” Get us
tell you. These are symptoms of
kidney trouble. You may have only
one of these symptoms, and your
neighbor another, for kidney trouble
affects different people differently.
But at the first sign of anything
wrong with your health find out the
cause, and treat the cause. Nearly
every ill “ the flesh is heir to ” is
due to disordered kidneys. There-
fore, when you don’t feel as well as
you ought, look after your kidneys —
give them help. Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills are special kidney help..
They cure every ill of the kidneys
and bladder, and are perfectly safe
for all, men and women, old and
young.
"Every Picture
Tells a Story "
Backache and Kidney
Trouble.
TW3 SYDNEY PEOPLE CURED.
Mrs. A. Weir, 168 Botany Road. Alexandria.
Sydney, says:—“ln common with many others I
can give Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills a first-
class recommendation as a cure for backache and
kidney disorder, these pills having cured me of a
bad attack some few months ago. Before I tooic
these pills I suffered terribly with my back, it
being so, stiff and painful that I could hardly get
about; in fact, I have been so bad that I have had
to lie up, being almost crippled with the pain.
My ankles and legs swelled considerably, and were
sore to the touch, and I was also subject to dizzy
attacks. I could not get proper rest at night, and
in consequence always felt dull and tired, and had
no energy. However, a course of Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills soon put an end to my health
troubles, and I have been grand ever since.”
Four years later Mrs. Weir confirms the
above: —“I am still well, and have had no return
of my old complaint since Doan’s Pills cured me
over four years ago.”
Mrs. Jas. Wilson, 17 Little Buckingham Street,
Sydney, says:—“For a long time I suffered torture
from backache and kidney trouble. The pains in my
back were very severe, and I have been so bad that
I could not attend to my work, as every movement
caused positive torture. The kidney secretions
were affected, being thick and cloudy, and contain-
ing a red sediment. I was also subject to dizzy
feelings, and could not sleep properly at night.
Nothing I took seemed able to give me any per-
manent relief; but one day when I was feeling very
bad I heard good reports of Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills, so I sent for some, and after taking
seven bottles I was cured. This remedy not only
banished the backache, but strengthened and toned
up my kidneys and improved my general health.
It is two years since I was cured, and I have had
no trouble with my kidneys since.”
Mr. Wilson confirms the above four years later:
“I am still well, and have had no return of back-
ache and kidney trouble since Doan’s Pills cured
me six years ago.”
S.NVO
°jlsz
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
Price 2/9 per bottle, at
all Chemists and Stores,
or post free from Foster-
McClellan Co., 76 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
clothes and seeking nepenthe on another
floor, although it seemed to him that forget-
fulness could be found only in another star.
But he was too healthy to be ill-humored
for long; daylight found him ready to laugh
at himself. He sought the ironmaster, now
awake and cheerful as a man should be
after a night of happy dreams. “H’lo, Ted,”
said he, “you’re up early.”
The timberman smiled grimly.
“You -must like early-rising.” continued
the ex-snorer. walking the floor with one
boot on and the other in his hand.
“Love it!” replied the timberman. “Why
are you doing that dot-and-carry-one
march ?”
"I’ve lost one of my socks.”
The timberman smiled grimly as if he
had his own troubles. The snorer con-
tinued his search for the sock, explaining
that, being out only for the day, he had
brought no change with him. The timber-
man left_him and had a drink; Avhen he
returned in an hour with the news that the
road was ready for them the sock was still
lost.
“Sure you had it?” asked the timberinau.
"Sure I bail it? Have I got two feet?”
"Sure you haven’t got two socks on one
loot?”
“Sleeping out of the room doesn’t make
you any kinder, Ted.”
“Sleeping ! Well—hell!”
“If you swear I won’t catch any socks.
Let’s see, Sherlock Holmes. If I’ve looked
for the sock and haven’t found it, it doesn’t
prove that it doesn’t exist —only that I’ve
looked jn the wrong places. The only, way
to find the right place is to look in all tin l
wrong places first. Process of elimination,
see?”
“You’ll have to be eliminated from this
trip if you don’t find that sock quickly.”
The man of the iron nose was thorough,
lie took up the mats and shook them, and
looked in all the drawers and behind the pic-
tures; and then he took sheets and blanket
and counterpane singly and shook them, but
found no sock. Then he examined the tim-
berman’s bedding, but the sock remained coy
and unseen. In despair lie looked in the
water-jugs, and then lie unpacked his letter-
case and looked in that —vainly. A sudden
thought struck the timberman. lie left the
room and searched the passage where he had
frozen fox half the night. He came back
grinning forf revenge; but he noted the
searcher becoming puzzled to anguish, and
his heart Softened. As the ironmaster turned
to look behinid the skirting-board the timber-
man threw something, and the snorer. seeing
something Wdck in the air and near his eye,
turned in time to see falling from Heaven
the sock. He* was grateful, and then annoyed.
“Why did you hide it?”
“I didn’t. I found it out there.”
“You must have taken it out there, then.”
“I did, without knowing it, when I shifted
my bedding.”
“Well, why jdid you move out of a warm
room into a cold passage—is it a penance
or what?” ,
“Do you mean to tell me that you don’t
know you snoi-e?”
“Snore? Newer in my life!”
“Snore? Not like a human being, but like
a plague! If the German army had heard
you they’d have been the retreaters from
Mons. Man, you’re a cyclone. You elimin-
ated me as a vacuum-cleaner takes out fluff.
Your snore is all the plagues of Egypt.
Snore! Jumping Moses! Your snore takes
the paint off doors.”
“ Snore ?”
The timberman looked at his mate’s round,
innocent face and the blue eyes that made
the simple believe he had never known sin.
And he relented.
“Oh, well, not much, old man,” he said
kindly. “But no more two beds in a room
for me!”
The snorer wore the injured air of one
suffering great injustice.
That night they were separated by four
rooms occupied by strangers who were sleep-
less till dawn; and the two got in fine work
and healthful sleep, the ironmaster playing
his galvanised-iron organ and the timberman
blowing his own trumpet till the day.
“Aliuh dum, dumdum ezza plush,” snored
the timberman.
“ Onh-Onh! Onk-Onk-Boom! Puff-Puff —
Quork!” replied the man of the iron nose.
The snore is the death of friendship; yet
meek little women who breathe as gently as
silkworms are happy next large husbands
who drive their pigs to market from eve to
dewy morn. Either the snoring of the be-
loved is music; or love, being blind, is also
deaf. Just as well; otherwise.the big hearty
man would be childless; leaving the world to
be carried on by delicate little gentlemen
who sleep as unostentatiously as cheese.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
Heads.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
DALE slipped quietly out of bed, one
foot at a time, and reached his hand
under the pillow. The look of trepi-
dation on his face gave place to one of deep
satisfaction as his hand closed lovingly over
something hard and smooth. Glancing fur-
tively about the room, at the door, the win-
dows, to make certain he was not observed,
he drew out his plant. It was a tomahawk.
It was altogether a beautiful tomahawk. It
had a head of dull blue steel —except for the
eighth of an inch of cutting edge, which
glinted brightly in the light streaming
through the windows. He tried it. razor-
fashion, with his thumb. lie could have
shaved himself with it. Dale knew what
he was going to do with that tomahawk. The
Chinese down the lower end were buying
heads, he was told. He had no idea what
they wanted the heads for. unless it was to
scoop out the brains and send the skulls
home to China to be used as rice-bowls. They
were paying £lO for ordinary heads, and did
not stop at £2O for a good out-size head.
Glancing carefully into every corner of the
room again, and putting his head through the
doorway to make sure there was no one in
the passage, Dale opened the window and
let himself out on to the lawn and through
the gate. The tomahawk hanging low at his
side close in against his leg was caressingly
smooth and cool, and he glanced down at it
as he went. He certainly did know what he
was going to do with that tomahawk. Two
streets down and round the corner lived his
brother-in-law. His name was Heinrick-
nissen, and he had a big head. And, in any
case, he should not be allowed to go on living
with a name like that. Lovingly Dale
glanced down at the tomahawk. And then
lie realised he had no clothes on. Not even
his socks. He was naked to the toe-nails,
It was a terrible thing to be naked in a
public street in broad daylight. It was hell
to be naked to your toe-nails.
Bending almost double and trailing the
chopper along the footpath he turned to
retrace his steps and get some clothes, only
to again change his mind and decide to go
on. No doubt they were watching him
already from behind the screen of their cur-
tains, and a few more further down the
street would not matter. Still, it was very
embarrassing. If lie had only brought his
slippers it would not have been so bad.
Arrived at Heinricknissen’s street, he
found time to be thankful he had not met
anyone along the road. He had watched in
a bath of cold perspiration the approach
of two women down the street, but at sight
of him they had disappeared quickly inside
a gate. It was not their own gate, either,
for he knew they lived in the house at the
ton of flip strppf
... . ~ . . TT ,
His brother-in-law was at home. He had
been working night shift at the electric
power-house the night before, and was in
bed asleep. Dale chuckled as he drew hnn-
T *' , u b and through the bedroom window.
As he stood over Heinrickmssen and lifted
the tomahawk he felt the handle swell. It
grew as thick as his arm ; it swelled as big
as his leg, it expanded to the dimensions of
a telegraph .Pole. And lus hands and arms
expanded with it. With arms like that he
could lift a mountain. They bulged and
lengtliened until the hands gripping the axe
hung down and touched the floor. Never
had he heard of such. arms._ He gave the
tomahawk a preliminary twirl, and despite
its size it was as a toy in his grasp. Hein-
rickmssen seemed such a tiny thing to hit
with an axe and arms like tliaL It was like
murdering a doll. Still, Ilemricknissen had
a big head. as. heads went. The Chinese
would readily give for it.
Dale was annoyed with Ileinricknissen—■
lie kept opening and closing his mouth after
his head was cut off! It had been a beauti-
ful cut, so clean it should never have awak-
ened him.. And here he was opening and
shutting his. mouth like a fowl! With anger
at such foolishness Dale grabbed up the head
by the fringe and climbed out the window,
Having no further use for the tomahawk, he
had left it lying beside the bed.. It would
certainly bear witness against him, but no
British court would really regard seriously
the killing of a man with a name like Hein-
rickmssen s. .
Letting himself out the gate, the sense
of his nakedness again overawed him. After
discarding the axe and taking in its place
a gory head he felt more naked than ever,
To make himself as invisible as possible he
shuffled along the footpath side on, but as
the only people watching him were securely
hidden behind their own house-curtains he
was embarrassingly aware that this only
made liim the more conspicuous. And then
out of a gate ahead of him came a woman,
Intent upon her errand, she did not notice
him until the matter of his naked feet called
her attention. At sight of him she did not
faint. She didn’t even scream. She took
up her skirts about her knees to allow of
free play to her legs; and ran. Dale' was
himself a fast runner, but never had he wit-
nessed such speed from a human being. Be-
fore his inner senses had grasped the fact
that she was running from him she had
completed the length of the long street and
disappeared around the corner. But the
sight of those flying legs was balm to the
tortured soul of Dale. He no longer felt so
lonely in his nakedness. 'When he at length
reached the abode of the Asiatic all embar-
rassment had fallen from him,
.As h e deposited his head on the counter
with a flourish the heathen grin on the face
°? the Celestial was as money counted and
p a< ’, d t ? Accredit at the bank,
c . pnce you givem ? he demanded
the Chinaman. Ihe gun on the face ot
ow monkey broadened,
( .D P°mi. he announced blandly. „
• d {Yi m€ n you w , e , re buying heads,
? aid ca * aa T a . s bough he had not
heard the proffered price. He would match
his own cunning against the cunning of this
i luman ape
“Fi’ P oun\” repeated Confucius,
« Thi s fella big head—what price you
s j V em?”
“Fi* poun’,” said the Chinaman.
“Don’t you joke with me, you Boxer
rebel!” shouted Dale, losing grip of himself,
“if y ou don’t ante up twenty sovereigns for
this top-knot I’ll have you trussed and de-
capitated before you can say rice. Do you
hear me?”
“Fi’ poun’,” answered the Chinaman, grin-
ning up and down the nakedness of Dale. Such
insolence was too much even for a naked
white man to bear. With a hand-spring
Dale threw his one hundred and seventy
pounds of naked flesh across the counter
an( j fell upon his enemy. With a fiendish
chuckle he gripped the wriggling heathen by
(| lo c hin and back of the head, and as a
man turns a press twisted the neck of his
tormentor. As the sinews stretched and the
muscles cracked and he felt the bones break
under his hands a feeling of sublime power
came over him. Again his arms and hands
swelled until the head of the Chinaman was
as a walnut in his palms. With ferocious
exultation he felt his whole body distend
until his head touched the ceiling, from
-where it looked down as into a pit at the
wriggling mannikin in his grasp,
“Joke with me, will you?” he laughed
down at his victim. “Next time I bring you
a good, healthy head”— —
But the Chinaman was talking nt him.
Out of his screwed and twisted neck he was
discoursing quite rationallv.
“It’s nothing to be alarmed at. With this
type they generally become delirious within
six hours,” he distinctly heard him say.
'
G. L. THOMAS.


Zi
r ,|?X ; 'Jp
LS-sl ilii
:- ti> 111
' *"5 ,■ ■
;... E~J - V>
■°" ■ *! ... 'vv"
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414. '
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD,
Queensland Agents-HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
MJC, Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—o 9 Queen Street, Melbourne.
fg
* H
jp|
uilt to Withstand the
Hardest Use.
CLYDESDALE Lorries are built to with-
stand rough-going roads that are uneven,
rocky or sandy. This Lorry steadily pulls
its way through.
his powerful, economical, workaday Lorry is
orking its way into favor by its low cost of
maintenance in the transportation of goods.
Investigate why Clydesdale owners will have
no other.
H. I). VAN BRUNT, Factory Representative, P.O, Box 2093,
Sydney, AUSTRALIA.
New South Wales Distributors: HARBY-JOHNSON MOTOR
CO., 54-56 Wentworth Avenue, SYDNEY.
New Zealand Distributors: INCUS BROS. & CO. LTD.,
Harris Street, WELLINGTON.
T. E. SHIEL & CO., Stafford Street, DUNEDIN.
THE CLYDE CARS COMPANY,
44 Whitehall Street, New York, U.S.A.
Cable Address—CROMOTOR.
Z'
//
tim
r\/
>
rsss
SSSST;
?d
y
•••:- :
m
■ : ■ i
For Aching Heads
When your head seems splitting and your nerves are all “on
edge”—“Vaseline” Mentholated will bring you blessed relief.
Rub it over your forehead and throbbing temples. Then relax
and rest.
“Vaseline” Mentholated—just pure menthol and ‘.‘Vaseline”
Jelly—is cooling and refreshing. Use it when you first feel a
headache coming on. Safe and sure. In sanitary tubes; at
chemists and general stores.
Other “Vaseline” Products
“VASELINE” CAPSICUM—for chest colds, sprains, muscle pains.
"VASELINE” BORATED—for inflamed and sore eyelids.
CHESEBROUGH MANUFACTURING COMPANY
New York
(Consolidated)
London
Montreal
Vaseline Mentholated
trade Mark Petroleum Jelly
vaseline
Trade MSCltXie Mark
MENTHOLATED
PETROLEUM JELLY
TAKE
warning when the following symptoms make their appearance : —bilious-
ness, acidity, constipation, depression of spirits, flatulence, declining
appetite, headache, loss of energy, restlessness at night and heaviness
during the day. Generally speaking, these are indications that all is not
well with the digestive system. Take the necessary steps to remedy
matters. Before another day passes seek the assistance of
Beegham's Pills
which will speedily relieve these unpleasant feelings, generally due to
complications arising from a disordered stomach, and bring about a
radical change in the General Health. For many years this excellent
preparation has been universally acknowledged to be a first-class remedy
for digestive troubles. They improve the powers of nutrition and thus
enable the body to benefit to the full from the food taken. Anyone who
is at all troubled with ailments originating in derangement of the
stomach, liver and bowels is urgently advised to take Beeeham’s Pills
AND MARK THE DIFFERENCE!
Sold in boxes, labelled price (36 pills), 1/1 & (56 pilfs) & 2/9 (168 pills).
■
_
■
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome 6pring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tided everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW; it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafiing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft lubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE. COMFORT and SECURITY
FfeOM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It Is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
TAN KS
’When we speak of a tank we picture a huge
cumbersome box of machinery bristling with
guns. Yet Carter’s Little
Liv«r Pills, one of the
smallest and most success-
ful pill in the world,
can be compared to
tanks in action, for
they surely and
gently touch the
Liver, curing
Bilious Headache,
Constipation, etc.,
just as tanks suf
fg
CARTERS
I ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
mount obstacles and clear trenches of the
enemy. Try them to-day, your chemist has
them. Good for man, woman and child.
Small Pill—Small Dose—Small Price.
GENUINE must
bear signature
fg
QSTER
MATCHLESS
Screwing' Tackle.
Easy-starting, easy-pulling, easy-adjustment have all been perfected
in this tool. It is self-contained—it has no loose dies or parts.
Leader screw troubles are permanently eliminated by our patented
chip shield.
Furnished in four sizes. Without ratchet, }£in., 94 in., lin. to 2in.
With ratchet, lin. to 2in., 2*4 in. to 4in. All use one set of dies only,
except the largest, which uses two.
“The only way properly oa appreciate a Matchless is to use it.” See
your dealer at once.
The Easiest
Way to
Screw Pipe
Carried in stock,
with extra parts,
by ironmongers,
machinery and
hardware 8 plumb-
ing supply houses
m,
.V
Australasian Representative —
CHARLES WRIGHT f Turner Chambers, 16 Hunter St., Sydney
The Oster Manufacturing Co.,
Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.
Wire Str
Post Free
Thousands in Use.
( Patented )
M
10/-
Post Free
With Full Particulars
and Illustrated Circular.
fg
The simplicity, lightness and excellence of the
Dreadnought is fully maintained.
Manufacturing Company,
Normanby Road, SOUTH MELBOURNE.


fg
MANGROVITE2
LEATHER
M xf
IT EARNS PROFITS
for power-plant owners-who use it for trans-
mission purposes. It grips and does not slip
thus eliminating' waste and increasing:
production. °
■ ? r ° ve . its lnerit 011 vou'r power plant—you’ll
find it an advantage.
Mangrovite Belting' Ltd.
(Charles Ludowioi, Managing: Director),
49 York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney, N.S.W
Western Australia: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Perth
S’th Australia: John Bold & Sons Ltd., Adelaide
fg
The Value of Experience
—and the ability of a trained organisation are represented in th'e high
quality of our
SILVER STEEL
No steel can compare with this for
Dental Tools, Clock and Electrical
Work, Small Taps, Reamers, Punches
and Drills.
In short-length- rounds- from l-32ia,
rising by 64ths to iin.
Address your enquiries to Desk HA,”:
fg
Makers of Ultra Capital High-Speed Steel,
379-381 Kent St., Sydney.
ECONOMY IS
IN BELTING
With ,all costs shooting skyward the need
of economy is greater every day. Above,
all-stop power wastes, "" l ”
Worn-out belts, belts of inferior
material--even good belts at the wrong
work, mean needless waste.
Dick’s Batata Belting
(ORIGINAL AND GENUINE)
is the modern enemy of power waste. Jt
conserves horse-power and slips less than
any other belt. There is a Dick’s Balata
Belt for every drive. Write ns for full
particulars.
JAMES HARDIE and CO., LTD.,
Corner York & Wynyard Streets, SYDNEY.
581-3 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
30 Currie street, Adelaide.
PAUL & CRAY, Newcastle.
Queensland Agents
QUEENSLAND MACHINERY CO.. Albert Street.
OV\N\
VN
i> ■» *
mm
This Peerless Combination
RADIATOR, HOOD and SHIELD
will make Your FORD a Thoroughbred in Appearance as well as in fact.
U «"T S I? the c f the much-desired stream-line effect, the front shield hiding the front
springs and other undesirable parts.
off, - IS Ra^ iator ,s equipped with the indestructible “Peerless” Core, which has proven so
partlcl * lar ly co l a Ford Engine This type of core ig used on the highest
FRFF7r CarS T rt .AT. WI T L , NOT BURST IN COLD WEATHER IF IT HAPPENS TO
f* ZiT E * . T* 1 ® fl exi bihty of the core allows it to expand, . _ n (7 „
and the water thaws out gradually. This Style, Price £|s Complete.
ROBERT C. SWAN (& CO. LTD.
The House for Motor Engineers’ Supplies * 304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
“Clayton” Portable Steam Engine
“Tang-ye” Portable Lampless
Oil Engine.
“Star”. Portable Oil Engine.
Dalgety’s Machinery Agencies
comprise
TANCYE’S Lampless Oil Engines, Benzine Engines, Suction Gas Plants, Pumps of all tvnes eto
CLAYTON Portable Steam Engines. WOLSELEYSheep Shearing Machines. BUNCLEChaffcutter'e
CANE Milking Machines. E. 8.8. Separator Engines, Pumping Engines, Plants
"TRIUMPH Oil and Benzine Engines, Vertical Type. “STAR” Portable Oil Engines, etc.
M ACHINERY DEPARTMENT-MILLER’S POINT, SYDNEY.
Triumph Oil or Benzine
Engine.
E.R.B. Separator
Engine.
Buncle Travelling Chaffoutter.
fg
"SHEEP
Shearing Machines .
dependable efficient.
Success has crowned the Wolseley Sheep Shearing Machines from the
beginning—they have always been satisfactory.
Owners proclaim them to be most efficient—shearers prefer them.
Mr. Harkings, Wilga Grove .Station, I,ansdale, N.H.W., made the
in one day.
Address enquiries to—
DALGETY & CO, LTD.,
Australasian Agents;
All Branches.
fg
"
X" I»
BS§
SUSS
-
ncourage Local Enterprise-
DODGE ROCKBREAKERS
With Manganese Steel Jaw Plates
We a,r e now manufacturing these machines locally (with the exception of the Jaw
Plates), where formerly they were imported from America.
Experience has enabled us to improve the design, and, where a line and uniform product
is required, such as to CRUSHING ROLLS, HUNTINGTON MILLS, &c., they are unequalled.
: our Sizes carried in Stock.
• - ~ - sir, -
Larger Sizes to Order.
Capacity I—l 2 Tons per hour.
Write for Full Descriptive Circular.
fg
Engineers & Machinery Merchants,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
93-6% EXTRACTION OBTAINED BY THIS LITTLE TABLE—
THE “CURVILINEAR.”
Six weeks ago we installed Two Curvilinears in the
mill of The New Venture Tin Mining Co., Ardlethan,
N.S.W. After working a week, samples were taken
over 8 hours to confirm the obviously remarkable
recovery being made.
The sampling was done by Mr. S. Robinson,
A.S.A.S.M., and the assays by Mr. Basil Purner,
A.R.S.M.
fg
FEED—lscwt. per hour, including Slimes, 1.1% tin.
TAlLS—lncluding Slimes 07% ~
MIDDLINGS ... 22.9% „
CONCENTRATES 65.7% „
The Extraction obtained by Concentrates and Middlings thus equals 93.6% —-a result never before obtained by any Table
FLOOR SPACE —12ft. x 4ft. —less than half of that usually required.
WATER —25% less.
POWER —l-10th H.P.—l-Bth of the usual rating.
WEIGHT—6cwt. packed.
CAPACITY—Up to 1 tons per hour.
REPAIRS—N egligible.
COST- —£75 f.o.b. Sydney.
Full information
tions for Mill Flow Sheets, sent free on request
LTD., 350 George Street, Sydney.
