

IDES'WTj^LXS’S—The Spirit of Confidence.
R. 6. WATKINS «S& CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specially : AUC TIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE
MONEY
ON EASY>
TERMS
jw'fe
ON ALL CLASSES OF SECURITY
WITHOUT POSSESSION.
NSW- MONT de PIETE
D Si I C9T LIMITED
r 74 Casllereagh St.74.Sydney.
CAPITAL £200.000 ‘Phone City 9325
Bra/jcAes29 Kino St., Newcastle. NSW- ?\b l7 swanstohS7.Meld.Vk
40 Adelaide Stßrisbane.Q.l66 Castlereaijh St,IS9 George St. West, Sydney.
JTujrH&ce Jt&nnett, G&siejr&l <7es>.
. JL
■ y>
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not he laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete D. and I. Co. Ltd.”
ii
CHROMOL
19
(Trade Mark)
The Super Driving Belt.
The largest mining and smelt-
ing plants use “Chromol,” because
of its proven superiority over all
other Belting.
Sole Makers:
JLC.LudowiciSSon Ltd.
Pioneer Leather Belting Works,
117 York Street, Sydney
Pioneers and Leaders since 1858.
THE BEST !
£
n
n
a?
2322
n
OA
n
m
a
S 3
nea
nd
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organa.
hanse
NS
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
fSI
—the perfect roofing.
Possesses every good point that the exacting architect or
builder could demand, including great durability, resistance
to climatic extremes, fine appearance and true economy.
Write for samples and illustrated booklet, post free.
The Paraffine Companies Inc. (F. M. Prince, Australasian
Manager), Challis House, Sydney.
A new anc/ revised edition of the
•• Referee” is now available
and will be sent post free on
application to
JOHN LYSAGHT (Australia) LIMITED
8 Spring Street, SYDNEY •
the recognised standard
of quality throughout
the Commonwealth
VIN ERVO (The Best Wine Tonic).
ORME, KEIGWIN (Sk> CO. LTD., SYDNEY Sol* Agents.
CRUSH ING MACHINERY
by Edgar Allen & Co. Ltd., Sheffield.
Ball Hills (all sizes), Tube Mills, Crushing Rolls, Disintegrators, Magnetic Separators, Ore Crushers, Road-
metal Crushers, Stamper Battery Parts, Forged Steel Balls, etc. Complete Catalogue sent on request by
NOYES BROS.
(SYDNEY) LTD., 115 Clarence Street* Sydney.
(MELBOURNE) PTY., LTD., 499-501 Bourke Street, Melbourne; and Darling Building, Adelaide.
SELLING AGENTS * CHAS. E. BERNAYS, 125 Adelaide Street, Brisbane; J. R. W. GARDAM, Perth.
i “
TOOTH PASTE
Used Kvery Day
Prevents Decay.
k
V01.40.—N0. 2061.]
[Thursday, August 14, 1919.
PRICE 6cl.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


■i
I^3
TRADE
FOX
MARK
• L» /
aae
GLAD TIDINGS
SUPPLIES of Fox’s World Renowned Guar-
anteed Serges were curtailed during the
War owing to the heavy demands of the
British and Allied Governments—
-8,479 Miles of Cloth having
been supplied
Shipments have now arrived just in time for
Winter Suits, Costumes and Juvenile Clothing.
FOX’S SERGE
All Pure Wool Guaranteed Fast Dye
Stand without a rival tor good appearance and
hard wearing qualities.
<§)
When You Fight Your
Battles Over Again
y
y
your memory is not so good that it will be able to
recall details of those exciting: days in the Spring: of
1918. When discussion arises and disputes occur
you will be glad of the aid of this book. THEBE
ABE 15 DETAILED MAPS AND PLANS supplied
by the Australian Kecords Section. The author has
an easy, graphic style which holds attention from first
to last.
The Australians.
Their Final Campaign, 1918.
By F. M. CUTBACK
(Ah Official War Correspondent with
the A.1.F.).
“From the city centres to the remotest parts of the bush the story which Mr. F. M.
Outlack has to tell in his new book should go right to the hearts of every Australian
man and woman. The official history of the last year in France cannot be written for
several years. This is published in order to give the Australian people an immediate
narrative.’’—Herald, 17/6/’l9.
ORDER YOUR COPY NOW. Price 10/6; postage 4d.
Melville Mullen Pty. Ltd.
262-264 Collins Street, Melbourne.
THE PALACE HOTEL.
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OF PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
JOHN T, GLOWREY, Proprietor.
’S Eumentho! Juj
contain no cocaine or other poisonous drug. Suited for old and young. For Cough 9,
Colds, Sore Throats, Bronchitis, Influenza, and the Prevention of Consumption.
JUj
Ml
MMTMuim
"i
HUDSON
■WSfSSS
What the Medical World says:—The
Lancet— ‘‘Proved to be as effective baeteri-
cidally as is creosote.” —THIS REPORT
FROM “THE LANCET’ LABORATORY
IS UNDOUBTED EVIDENCE of the
VALUE OF EUMENTHOL JUJUBES as
an ANTISEPTIC. 1/6 a Tin.
Sold at Chemists, Grocers, Storekeepers, or
Post Free from the Sole Manufacturers —
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CO., LTD.,
Sydney,
on receipt of 1/6 in stamps of any Province.
I'llT/it c ßtd Wage |SH
With Tales to Tell.
A
[For The Bulletin.]
If you sit long enough in the selfsame place,
With a light in your eyes and a smile on
your face, A
While the sweet flowers blow and the gay
birds sing,
All the old, round world will come a-gossip-
ing.
Mining-men and timber-men, men of cast
and west,
Men who house a roving heart in a restless
breast —
Each will hold your ears in thrall, an you
greet him well;
Every man upon this earth has a tale to tell.
If you wait long enough on the selfsame seat,
With the leaves overhead and the grass at
your feet,
While the good gold light on the green
sward plays,
All the old, round world will gossip of its
ways.
Pearling-men and cattle-men, men of reef
and shore,
Men who have the birds at heart, men of
forest lore —
Eacly will hold your ears in thrall, an you
greet him well;
Every man upon this earth has a tale to tell.
If you hide long enough in the selfsame spot,
While the breeze blows cool and the sun
shines hot,
And a tall green gum its sweet shade flings,
All the old,' round world will talk of many
things.
Fishing-men and hunting-men, men of rod
and gun,
Squatter-men and droving men, men of roaid
and run — *
Each will hold your cars in thrall, an you
greet him well;
Every man upon this earth has a tale to tell.
If you sit long enough in the grave,' grey
.fisH
While the birds wing home with a slow, tired?
flight,
And a far, far bell the day’s end chimes,
All the old, round w r orld will talk of
shadowed times.
Men of deed and derring-do, men of high
romance,
Men of old Gallipoli, men of warworn
France —■
Each will hold your heart in thrall as you
greet him well;
Sad and fine-and wonderful are the tales
they tell.
N.S.W.
Roderic Quinn.
A Bolshevik Apology
Six Weeks in Russia in 1919 has the merit
of being up to, date, for the experiences are
as recent as February this year. Arthur
Ransome is an intensely sympathetic writer.
He went to Russia under Bolshevik auspices,
and with , the run of the best Bolshevik offi-
cial society. He describes a little of what
he saw and a great deal of what he heard
from important and uncorroborated Bolshe-
viks with lofty ideals. What he saw con-
sisted largely of a great scarcity of food and
fuel in a bitter winter. In Moscow he
witnessed a man driving a sledge loaded
with horse bones for humans to gnaw. The
load was black with crows so famished that
ieven the whip could not shift them. The
.crows burst into, the hotel rooms through
the ventilators. All other birds had vanished
i —even the pigeons which were onoe the pride
.of Moscow, as they are of Venice and Jey-
pore. Ransome speaks'of a wretchedly de-
teriorated railway system even between the
■two big cities —he doesn’t go beyond them—
and of incredible prices. Yet Moscow and
Petrograd were at peace in the early days of
1919. the fires having burned themselves out.
: Of the hospitals, prisons, schools and camps
nothing is said. Nor is there anything about
the condition of the smaller towns. There
as a great deal of approbation about Soviets,
but no remark about whether they come by
their authority through a process of free
election or in some other way. Nothing is
isaid about any personal investigation into
the ways of justice; though there are inter-
views with prominent Bolsheviks who guar-
antee its purity. It is mentioned that the
best seats at the theatres are now occupied
by workers instead of by employers and
their wives, who have totally disappeared.
No information is supplied about where they
have been buried. In all the long series of
interviews and conversations the writer
doesn’t appear to have met with anybody
who wanted to seriously carp or criticise —
not even Jo carp about the - sledge-load of
(iorse-bones with the famished crows on it.
A possible’ inference is that Russia is a
poor place for those who criticise. The men,
all mixed up with politics, whose sayings are
reported, admit unanimously the spotlessness
of their motives, and they are taken at their
own valuation. Reports of massacres and
the like are. neither affirmed nor denied.
Ransome also relates how he. was told by
Bolshevik politicians of remarkable public
works and industries established, or being
established, ori to be established; but he
doesn’t mention that he personally inspected
even one of them.
All the people he interviewed set the
hunger, the; lack of fuel, the enormous prices,
the bad -roads, the breakdown of -communi-
cations, the crows on the horse-meat, the
stoppage of the schools through lack of
books, the;. general disorganisation—all the
things they admit which are probably few
Compared with those they don’t admit—to
the fact" that the country is at war.
The explanation seems insufficient. The
Allied forces at, Murmansk and Archangel
are few. and hang out after a defensive
fashion in an empty, frozen region winch is
of little use to man or beast. Poles, and
Roumanians are barely able to protect them-
selves against Bolshevik aggression, and the
latter have the Hungarians on their hands
and arh fighting for their lives. There
remain a civil war on the fringe of Euro-
pean Russia’ and a feeble flock of Finns and
Esthonians. The Bolshevik Government
holds the richest and most thickly-peopled
part of Russia —a region about 1400 miles
by 1500 —and all the big cities., It acquired
all the railways and public works in this
region free of cost by the simple process of
repudiating the foreign debt. Then it con-
fiscated the public treasure and all the wealth
of the richest nobility on earth as a trifle to
go on with. A Government with such
chances, which can’t even keep the fires going
in the public offices of the big safe city in
which it hangs out. seems a monument of in-
capacity. It still owns the granary of
Europe. It possesses free of invasion a
territory three or four times the size of any
other European State. Its wars don’t absorb
a quarter of the men that they did in the
last days of Czardom. And famine is the.
prevailing feature! Ransome speaks with
admiration of the aspirations of the men who
talked to him, and the _ speeches they de-
livered on political occasions. Yet of plain
hard work he says next to nothing. (George
Allen and Unwin, Limited, London.)
The Bushman’s Books
A particularly fine instance of what can
be done towards the encouragement of read-
ing in the bush is to be found on Corinda,
80' miles N.W. of Aramac, Central Queens-
land. Arranged on shelves of silky oak, set
in a well-appointed office lined also with this
elegant timber, are over 1000 books of fiction
and works of reference. This library is kept
up to date by a monthly parcel of about six
books from Sydney. I happened to be the
station book-keeper (incidentally storekeeper,
. meteorological recorder, postal rep. and elec-
toral officer), and so automatically became
the librarian. Most of the station-hands
asked for fiction and Australian poetry:
while works which called for reflection and
meditation went out in the packs of the
boundary-riders.
Ambathala, 71 miles west of Charleville
(Q.), was practically bookless. Dhring a 12
months’ sojourn there I never saw the man-
ager (“Greenhide Iiill,” one of the old Hugh-
enden “greenhides”) read a book. Yet he had
Written passable verse, and once showed the
cutting of some verses entitled “Droving”
which had been published in The Bulletin
over the signature “Greenhide Bill.” The
bushman, although a man of action, is in his
leisure moments more of a dreamer than a
reader. The bush life, with its wealth of
color and its light and shade, and fraught
with daily out-of-door experiences, fills his
soul in such measure that the portrayal
of life by writers of romance does not greatly
appeal to him. I lent “White Fang,” by Jqck
London, to an old Scotchman who had been
trapping dingoes for years at a place called
the Ghost Hole, about 30 miles from the
homestead. Mac read it amkl his wild, eerie
surroundings, and brought it back to me
quite unimpressed.
Myamely station, 50 miles west of Con-* -
dobolin (N.S.W.), boasted a library of fiction
presented by the then owner, A. B. Triggs.
The manager (owner of the famous steeple-
chaser .Tack Rice) confessed that he had
read only the books by Nat Gould ; and the
station-hands never asked for even that much.
Personally I read the lot during a three-
rnonths’ stay there. A station book-keeper’s
lines are cast in pleasant places at times, and
this job was the nearest approach to a holi-
day one could get. By the way, it was on
this station that the head musterer wore a
Beaufort coat, and his name was Bill Smith.
From Central Queensland early in 1916
I wired to Sydney for a book on the war
and a war map for an old boundary-rider
who traced the passing events of the big
conflict with great interest. Whether the
telegram was mutilated I do not know, but
10 days later I received a copy of the little
red “Manual of Infantry Training.” When
the package was opened old Dick looked at
it with head cocked on one side and, with-
out a word, held it out to me. That was
“the office.” I read the little book all the
way to Sydney—and got sergeant’s pay on
the strength of it. However, I found sol-
diering a bit too noisy, and I’m going back
to the peace and quiet of the station when
I get patched up a bit.
E. G. Davies.
The Artist Wrongs of Ireland
When the Anglo-Norman entered Ireland
the whole country became, in the phrase of
the Four Masters, “a trembling sod.” A few
of Ireland’s wrongs have from time to time
been mentioned by Irishmen, but the chief
and greatest are seldom referred’ to—mainly
perhaps because the patriot complainant
believes his English' jury incapable of under-
standing.
The finest of many arts which developed
early in Ireland is that of the book-
illuminator. On the testimony of very many
authorities nothing to equal, it was produced
anywhere else in the woyld. Here is one
statement by Westwood :
I have examined with a magnifying-glass the pages
of the “Gospel of Lindisfarne,” and the “Book of
Kells,’’ for hours together, without ever detecting
a false line or an irregular interlacement; and when
it is considered that many of these details consist,
of spiral lines, and are so minute as to be impos-
sible to have been executed without a pair of com-
passes, it really seems a problem not only with what
eyes hut .with what instruments they could have been
executed.... I counted in a small space, measuring
scarcely three-quarters of an inch by less than half
an; inch in width, in the “Book of Armagh,” not
fewer than 158 interlacements of a slender ribbon
pattern formed in white lines edged with black ones
upon a black ground.
There is not a single page of book-
illumination worth 'considering which was
produced after the Anglo-Norman invasion.
The finest Irish works of sculpture are
the tall Celtic crosses and the work on the
inscribed tombstones of which about 250 still
remain. Few, if any, are later in date than
the Anglo-Norman invasion.
The. fine metal-work of Ireland—much of
it dating to pre-Christian times —was once
the wonder 'of Western Europe, and is still
puzzle and a delight to the . antiquary.
Kemble declared that “for beauty of design
and execution” the cast bronze’-work was
more wonderful than anything he had seen.
On the top of that statement Miss Stokes
came along and proved that the work whs
not cast at all. hut repoussd, adding to the
(Continued on page 28.)


m
wee
C.P.C. Chaffcutter, Bentall's renowned
make, fixed mouth, 7Ain.’ wide, cuts iin.
and Jin. Mounted on cast-iron column.
JE6/7/C
This Invincible Corn Sheller has a capacity
of 20 bushels per hour, and is easily
worked £6/10/-
A Wiard Spading Harrow is ; nvaiuable on
a well-ordered farm. Strength and reliability
are its strong points.
WIARD SPADING HARROWS—
3ft. 16in. spades, each £lO
4f t- 16in. „ £lO/15/-
sft.A 16in. ~ ~ £ll
Oft.A 16in. „ „ £l2/15/-
6ft.O 18in. „ „ £l4/15/-
7ft.G 18,' n. „ „ £l5/10/-
6ft. WIARD DISC GANGS, to convert Spade into
Disc Harrows
MEN on the Land know good implements when
they see them. That is why Anthony
“ Horderns’ implements are so popular with
progressive farmers. They are made by makers
of repute, are thoroughly dependable, and are
economical, too. Send for particulars of any-
thing you require. It will be to your advantage.
Plantation Standard Peed Cutter is just the machine for the farm where
large capacity is desired but only man-power is available. Made in two
sizes, with 9in. and llin. knives. They cut i, i, £ and 1 inch, with four
knives, and double these lengths with two knives. No. 9 will cut 70 bushels
per hour with one man at each wheel and one to feed; No. 11, 85 bushels.
Prices: No. 9, £l4/5/6; NO. n, £l6
The Little Buckeye Disc Cultivator (as illustrated) is a highly useful and
convenient cultivator, especially suitable to light, loose or sandy soil. The
two gangs of disc blades are carried on a securely-braced steel frame, and
may be set to throw in or out. They may also be set to straddle row cultiva-
tion, or to cultivate between rows. Price £9/10/-
C.X.B. Chafl'cutter (Bentall's), rising
mouth, 7Jin. wide, cuts Jin. and £in.,
42in. wheel ... £B/17/6
Rapid Root and Vegetable Cutter, will cut about
50 bushels per hour. Has three cutting knives. Simple
and durable £B/15/-
This is a Wiard Disc Harrow, it has a strong
channel-steel frame, and can be depended upon to give
good service. 3ft., without fore truck, £l2/15/-;
sft., with truck, £l6; 6ft., with truck, £J T.
This is an Imperial Spring Tooth Low Down Harrow, and a fine harrow it is, too.
The frame is of heavy angle steel, sloping upwards in front to avoid the trash. The tines
are of steel and reversible. The draw-bar may be adjusted up or down, to insure even
working of the tines, or to make the front or rear tines work deep or shallow as desired.
7-tooth Spring Tooth Harrow, with iron handles and runners, weight 1061 b., £7/7/6
10-tooth ditto, weight 1751 b £B/15/-
17-tooth ditto, in two sections (as illustrated), weight 2461 b £l3/10/-
The Emperor Rake, as shown, is indispensable dn a farm run on up-to-uate lines.
The teeth are flattened and have chisel points that will not dig’, take up least dust,
offer little resistance, and reduce the draft. Fitted with strong wooden wheels,
; £ll
ANTHONY HORDERNS’,
BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.


There is pleasure in maKing'
■ ■ t 1
and pleasure in reviewing' -
KODAK PICTURES
*%;'
■
1
-
11
HP
c.
■ .-*• :
I i
:
<'*V J? + | % y'.£';s\>. \\ jJ''
Si
1 flap » apg
.
m
Your enjoyment only begins
with the making of Kodak
pictures ; afterwards you and
your friends will have the
utmost delight in going over
them, again and again.
This is why, without a Kodak,
you miss half the joy of life ;
a Kodak repeats your good
times.
Ypu need a Kodak to make pictures of
ypur family and friends, of your pets
and hobbies, of sports and games: of
outdoors, tours, week-end rambles and
holidays. '
There are Autographies Kodaks from 40/- to
£l4/17/6 —one to meet the needs of everybody.
The 3a Autographic Kodak -for postcard pic-
tures—s V 2 x 3 inches.- Price £6/2/6.
The No. la Autographic Kodak Junior for pic-
tures 2% x 4ti inches. Price 70/-
The Vest Pocket Autographic Kodak—easily
carried in a Ipdy’s handbag or a man’s pocket
-—for pictures 2% x 1% inches —which are
easily enlarged.''.-. Price 40/-
v' V
Of all Kodak dealers and
KODAK. (Australasia) LTD
Incorporating; Baker & Rouse Prop. Ltd.,
379 George Street. Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne
250-252 Queen St., Brisbane; The Valley; 37 Bundle St., Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth St.,
Hobart; Iluthven St., Toowoomba; Fliriders St., Townsville; Denham St., Rock-
hampton; Optical and Photo Supplies Co., Perth; 109-111 Dixon St., Wellington, N.Z.
(Wholesale) ; “The Kodak Corner,” corner Rambton Quay and Willis St., Welling-
ton, N,Z. (Retail) ; 3 Dome St., Auckland, N.Z. (Wholesale); 76 Stuart St., Dunedin,
N.Z. (Wholesale); 148 Richfield St„ Christchurch, N.Z. (Wholesale).
ff
c*
f
r
P*3§l
m
a?
)
\
IT
/
n
The Family Chorus:
“His Master's Voice ”
is superb.
will make your Home
ai> Opera-House!
' '
Should you wish to hear, in your own home, the
very operatic triumphs which are now delighting
Sydney audiences—buy an “His Master’s Voice”
instrument; and records !
Should you desire to learn the Jazz and the Tickle-
Toe, dance to the superb music of London’s lead-
ing orchestras, as played exclusively for “His
Master’s Voice” !
Should you wish to listen to music-hall humor —
the world’s leading comedians are here at your
command !
“His Mastsr’s Voice” is the stage of the world
the supreme entertainer.
The “EXCELLO” Model
is a portable, hornless instrument with the
famous gooseneck tapered tone-arm and
“Exhibition” / souiul-box. Handsomely
finished in OAK, with Nickel ,
Fittings— l £9/9/-
Or in beautifully polished -a /i I
Mahogany—- XIU/lU/"
Instrument catalogue, record lists and name of
nearest accredited dealer on request.
The Gramophone Go. Ltd.
163 Pitt Street SYDNEY.
“GRAMOPHONE”
Read. Trade-marl
■
The Excello. "
“Ilis Master’s Voice
Regd. Trade-marl.


Mother sill s
SEASICK
REMEDY
CI^RES
THE
CHARMS
OF A SEA TRIP
need no longer be marred by the
dread of mal-de-mer
MOTHERSILL’S Sea-Sick Remedy^
is guaranteed to prevent and cure Sea
and Train Sickness, or money refunded.
MOTHERSILL’S has received the unquali-
fied endorsement of the leading papers of
the world, and the finest testimonials
from the world's greatest men, women
and institutions.
No Bad After Effects.
All Chemists, in Large & Small Boxes,
Motliersill Remedy Co.. Ltd.,
Clarence & Market Sts.,
Sydney.
Guaranteed to cure
SEA OR TRAIN SICKNESS
OR MONEY RETURNED
M
For Bad Breath
Those who find their
breath bad in the morning; a
bad taste in the mouth and a
furred tongue, will find Pink-
ettes—the new laxative—
an excellent remedy. They
correct the stomach condi-
tions which cause symptoms;
regulate the liver and remove
constipation. Pinkettes act
without causing sickness or
griping, or after effects of
strong purgatives.
1/-per bottle at all dealers.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “The Bulletin.’
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asias, Gd. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia and uews of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Heading Room at the Offices, 115 High llol-
born. London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use tha
telephone, and obtain information without
eharsrp.
||igi!!lgi|
■
: / v^
■
'k^m-
Wmm
mmm
E -* f |
ssa
■
ftwi
m
ms
WM
m
mm
y/Zt
W&M
: y m
rili#]
BOSTOCK’S DRY CLEANER
FOR
Wfritg & Colored StjosS.
THE SIGN OF
PERFECTION
It never fails to give entire satisfaction, being easily applied, does not
rub off, and is unequalled in every way.
COLORS:—White, Rla&k, Light Grey, Dark Grey,
Champagne.
BoStock’S Violo Polishes, Ltd.,
sypN€y,
The Indispensable!
In ten yea'r z’ time you will wonder
how you ever managed to do
without a
Srouirfainrcn
Year after year, with undiminishing
efficiency and zeal, Waterman’s Ideal
speeds and makes pleasant the task of
the writer. Thus it proves the greatest
economy and a permanent source of
satisfaction. Whatever else goes
wrong, you can rely on your Water-
man’s Ideal-the pen with the smooth
nib and the steady, even flow.
Three Types : “ Pocket Self-Filling-,”
“Safety,” and “Regular. - ’ Of Sta-
tioners and Jewellers everywhere.
_L. G. SLOAN, Ltd.,
OjC/fJctt (Eortter London, Eng.
Australia : H. D. Dixjn, 106, Clarence St.,
Sydney.
J
u
<
m
*
¥ V
THE fascination of
field shooting is due to
the uncertainty of getting the
game. The interest in shooting is the
ability to reduce those uncertainties to the mini-
mum. A well trained dog, a good gun and
cartridges are among the necessary elements.
Produced by experienced makers and re-
cognized everywhere by keen sportsmen
as of unsurpassed quality, Remington
UMC cartridges wifi help you to com-
bine the elements which make a good
shot and which bring home
the full bag.
Catalogue postpaid
upon request.
REMINGTON ARMS UMC COMPANY
V. D. BRYANT, Australian Representative, Box GBG G.1’.0., Melbourne.
safeguard You* HEaltH
0t J.Collfe Brotfn^is
CWorodyae
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE IV3ST MEDICINE FOR
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and ia tiie C»ug4 of DKONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE,- RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, IjS, SI-, of-,
Made in England.
C.' BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd
Circular Pointed,
Pens. _
Seven
Prize Medals.
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Works: Birmingham, England
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box. •
A SEASONED SHAVER.
“Many’s the Razor I have tried, but there’s none
like the ‘Plum.’ ” So spoke a seasoned shaver, and
his experience is echoed by thousands of others.
Join the big crowd who swear by
THE. “PLUM” RAZOR.
PRICE 10/6—POST FREE.
We keep it in order for' two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/- H
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
The above makes a handsome present.
“Plum” Strop Dressing., 1/2 Tube, post free.
All the above Post Free. Send for our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over 30 years.
Tried and Trusted—
The “PLUM
Razor.
»
[Fob Tub Bulletin.]
The Opal Ring.
“Red’s for blood and black’s for Death.
Till my heart’s last, love-hot breath
I’ll be true to you,” he said
As he kissed her small, dark head.
But she turned the opal ring
With a wistful questioning.
Saddle and mount and ride away
At the close of a dream-sweet day.
The god of the bush is a god of Chance,
And who cares for a maid’s romance:'
“Red’s for blood.” She watched him go
Through the dying sunset glow,
Crying there until the moon
Danced out to an elfin tune.
And she kissed the little ring
With a sweet surrendering.
Luck of the stars and sun’s desire!
Chance of th.c drought and flood and fire!
The heart of a maid may sob in vain
Till id lover comes again.
Rose Spring died and Summer fled
In a mantle hot and red.
“By and bye,” her lips would say
All the patient hours of day ;
While tl’.e bright, fear-haunting ring
Made her marriage-finger sting.
Fires of Fate in the evening sky!
Warning wail of a curlew’s cry!
The pulse of a bush-girl still must beat
'To the sound of a horse’s feet.
“Black’s for Death.” “Jim, Jim!” she cried
By the empty saddle's side.
“Red’s for blood.” The red sun’s mirth
Laughed on the red saddle-girth.
Laughed the sun and laughed the ring—-
Ah, the cold, beloved thing!
Saddle and mount and ride away
At the close of a dream-sweet day.
The god of the bush is a god of Chance ,
And who cares for a maid’s romance?
N.S.W.
Zora Cross.
The Welcome.
These hurrying footsteps fill the echoing
street.
There will be many people there to meet
Co-night’s returning soldier. But I wait
iVitliin the quiet house for him. The gate
is open wide in welcome—hush, the train !
its echoing thunder dies ; the tranquil reign
Of silence holds the air a moment till
Soft music rises—“ Home, Sweet Home,”
its thrill
Has stirrfed my heart to tears, for he has
come
At long, long last (oh, hear the throbbing
drum !)
To this dear place and all he loves so well.
The harmonies, so rich, so tender, swell
And fill the night, and sink again to sleep.
Tumultuous cheers! Then silence, sudden,
deep.
’Tis now they speak to welcome him—l know.
Oh, how they clap and cheer and cheer him !
So,
He smiles and stands to thank them. And
again
Triumphant music, and the noise of men
Shouting a welcome comes to me; the sound
Of a swift-running engine, and around
The noise of surging people making way.
The car draws slowly up; I hear him say
Some laughing words, as though he could
not stay
One moment longer. Hurrying through the
gate
With flying steps, he enters—oh, most dear
And deeply loved and longed for, he is here!
VICTORIA.
G. Ethel Martyr.
To a, Musician.
Of Love I fain would write, but that my muse
Is lost; submerged beneath a surging main
Of memories by thy sweet music drawn
From innermost recesses of my brain;
From nooks where I had deemed them safely
stored,
Quiescent after agonising birth
’JVfongst vain regrets and dead ideals adored,
Now haunting me as ghosts that walk the
earth.
As some sweet perfume we have known of
yore,
But quite forgotten in the toil and stress
Of mundane life, smelt suddenly, recalls
A dear departed scene of happiness,
Perchance a lingering remorseful pain
For foolish deed or word, or long-dried tears.
Thy music whelms me, marshalling again
The memories of sweet and hated years.
And. now it is a roaring waterfall
Of liquid crystal notes which on my head
Burst suddenly in shimmering silvern mist..
Enveloping the thoughts’ deep river-bed,
Whereon reflected light of reason’s sun
Creates the glittering rainbow of my dreams ;
And visions of my memory one by one
Are blended in kaleidoscopic gleams.
I know not what they say, these notes of
thine;
But, whether rioting or smoothly sweet.
They rise in longing, calling, and decline
To throbbing cries .of. passion incomplete;
They draw the bolt of memory’s secret cell,
And waking ouiv’ring echoes of the past,
Lead forth the motley captives there to
dwell
Supreme within my truant heart at last.
N.S.W.
Gib Spring.


:* %%
' ••'• • V. ..»
w
fS
»e
m
m
SP*S
m
m.
§m
m
m
&».
m
PERDRIAU
HEAVY RED RUBBER
MOTOR TUBES
are built on the laminated principle—layer upon
layer of finely calendered resilient Para Rubber.
Made by this method, their power of resistance is
the added strength of many individual layers,
• although their perfect homogeneity makes it impossible for the
eye to detect the method of their construction.
Perdriau Tubes are the heaviest on the market and, the rubber being of
the highest quality, they are best fitted to stand up against the most exacting
service under all climatic conditions.
Obtainable from your local garage or from the manufacturers :
PERDRIAO RUBBER CO. LTD. , 270 George Street, Sydney.
307 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
122 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
69 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
312 Murray Street, Perth.
FLIES GARRY DISEASE.
INSECTIBANE
KILLS FLIES and
OTHER INSECTS.
Obtainable at all Cbemists and Stores
throughout tbe Commonwealtb.
I
f
i 5
mriTTT -n- m i m t t n nm. rmi
.
THE COST OF LIVING
is high, but it is still possible to
feed some people’s vanity.
Also one can get food for re-
flection for nothing.
“REX” CAMP PIE
is however the food par excellence and nu/li
secundus, for helping to cut down the cost
of high living. Ic is all good well selected
Meat, compounded, seasoned and cooked by
the famous "Rex” Chefs. You serve it cold
with salad or heat the tin for 20 minutes,
and serve hot.
SOLD BY GROCERS EVERYWHERE.
STOREKEEPERS please note.
—lt is only necessary to feature "Rex"' {roods in your store to se-
cure a big slice of “Rex” business. The demand is there—the sales
are daily increasing. Are YOU getting YOUR share ?
FOGGITT, JONES & CO., LTD.
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon
J 957 Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Products
m
tn
SS
SAMP PIE
€t
The smooth, mellow quality of
Thorne’s.—its uniform excel-
lence —distinctive flavor and
all-round supremacy —have
been upheld for over 80 years.
Try it—and judge it for yourself.
>
O.H.M. f( lncomparable.”
SPECI &LS
That delectable charm of flavor peculiar to Figaros
is due to careful selecti on of the leaf, Nature’s own
curing and blending b}' real experts.
The Cigar that satisfies.
A beverage
that delights the most exacting of
connoisseurs, and a
Medicinal Spirit
of special value, beca use of its being
rich in the higher ethers.
MARTELL’S
BRANDY.


k
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Voi. 40.—N0. 201.
THUKSDAY, AUGUST 14, 1910.
Pjkice 6d.
BACK TO THE GARDEN OP EDEN.
“Mrs. Pankhurst Walsh, amidst loud cheering, appealed to the seamen on strike to stand firm and have nothing to do with arbitration.” News item
EVE: “Chew it to the core, man! Think of the advertisement it will give me!”


ķ
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. Gd. per annum you can have The Bulletin
sent regularly to you every week for a year, to any
ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, post paid.
Cheques, drafts 9 etc.j which should he crossed , and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable) , Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will he regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions arc observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction—i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., fit Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C. |
L.3.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., 18i9 Conway Buildings,
Chicago, U.S.A.
ITonolulU. —Home News Agency, ~63 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Iloung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua.- —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
JOoz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise „• Boz., lid.; Bioz. to 10oz., 3d.;
lOoz. to IZoz., Sid.; elsewhere, ioz., lid., and id. each
additional Zoz. .
THURSDAY, AUGUST 14, 1919.
LEASEHOLDS.
The folk who live on the irrigation settle-
ment of Yanco (N.S.W.) are accumulating
a protest against the leasehold tenure. They
want to be freeholders instead of State ten-
ants. Taking one consideration with an-
other, there is no visible reason why they
should not be freeholders, provided the free-
hold system is a sane one. There are as
many varieties of freehold as there are days
in the month, ranging from possession of
the surface with certain duties and obliga-
tions attached, right down to ownership of
the surfaceand everything beneath and
above it, and the bodies and souls of. all
people on it, with no duties or obligations
whatever. There is freehold possession of
a limited amount of land for use, and free-
hold possession of an unlimited amount for
waste and sheer dog-in-the-mangerism. Like-
wise there are crazy leaseholds and other
leaseholds. One of the crazy sort was the
999 years tenure Which raged for a little
while in Maoriland. “Jock” Mackenzie
had a grievance against the dukes and other
outrageous land potentates of Scotland, the
country where big MacKenzies grow. He
knew them from the viewpoint of the crofter
—in his early time about the poorest, most
harri-ed, most rack-rented tenant who ever
tried to make a crust out of rocks. He
brought his woe with him, just as Tom
Walsh brought his Irish Home Rule com-
plaint and Mrs. Tom her bitterness because
her suffragette family had been man-handled
by the police in London. He went to Maon-
land to uplift the crofter, and the nearest
thing he could find was the small farmer, a
person who deserved encouragement, but
wasn’t exactly a muddy captive languishing
in a dungeon. He went there in search of
the blood and entrails of the Duke of Argyll
or some other peer, and found a colorable
imitation in the squatter, an arrogant crea-
ture, but still only a creature of yesterday
and not a very large one. And he proceeded
to create an ideal duke-proof farming class
bv granting the 999 years lease without right
of renewal —the right of renewal would have
rounded off the jest—at a rental of 4 per
cent., which could never by any chance be
increased. Thereby he granted something
as good as a freehold, for no freehold lasts
999 years (it is upset by revolution in less
than half that time), which couldn’t be
taxed as a freehold because it wasn’t one,
and which, as values grew, would pay far
less in rent than any respectable tax would
amount to. The wonderfully privileged class
of crofter land-sharks or oppressed bloated
peasantry devised as a bitter revenge on
the Duke of Argyll or somebody represented
the leasehold idea in an aggravated form.
* * * *
The places where the State leasehold sys-
tem is most urgently wanted are the cities
and towns. In agricultural country it is
quite a secondary consideration, provided
the freehold idea isn’t allowed to run wild.
It is in and immediately around the cities
that the upearned increment mostly happens,
the unearned increment being the increase
of value which comes along without the need
of intelligence or industry on the part of the
owner. The mass of people make it by
coming together or being dragged together,
so they have a right to it. The townsman
is fairly well accustomed to being a lease-
holder —either a man who rents his building
and ground or a man who puts' up his own
building on rented ground. The curse of the
system is that he pays rent to individuals
instead of to the State. In London—the
greatest city of the world unless New York
has got ahead of it since last census day—-
everybody is a leaseholder. A few peers and
sundries own London. They also own the
reversion of the buildings which their ten-
ants put up, and which are forfeited to the
ground-hog when the leases expire. Great
London is only a thing of yesterday, for
seven-eighths of it is the creation of a cen-
tury ; it was merely an overgrown village
120 years ago. And as the leases are long
the process by which the ground-hog will
annex all the buildings as well as all the
land has just commenced. The other day a
peer, who had about two dozen other peers
among his tenants, sold 20 acres, a mere
kitchen-garden, of London to a rich upstart
for £lOO,OOO per acre, the State lacking the
initiative to step in. Great estates (great
by value) in a great city can’t, be effectively
dealt with as a sin by the graduated land-
tax, though that tax may suit well enough
along the Murrumbidgee. When it costs
£20,000 for sufficient land to support a shop
it is absurd to penalise the proprietor for
not breaking up the bit of dirt for closer
settlement.
* * * •
The State ownership of cities is essential
for another reason—because the public land-
lord is interested in preventing the existence
of slums, where people become diseased in
mind and body: unfit soldiers, unfit tax-
payers, unfit and mentally-crooked law-
makers. The people are the property of the
State, and the slum life depreciates the
State’s property. The private ground-hog
who leases out city land for building pur-
poses has only the rents to consider. The
State, as its own ground-hog, would have to
consider the tenants also. Therefore the
State would have a constant ambition to
create new cities, founded on the principle of
State ground-ownership—not pleasure cities
like Canberra, which are to live on the tax-
payers, but self-supporting places with facil-
ities for manufacture and commerce, and
with a great future before them. Unfortu-
nately this can’t be done without raising
fierce competition against privately-owned
cities like Sydney and Melbourne. Their in-
fluence blocks all real progress towards the
leasehold idea, which is also the decentralisa-
tion idea.
* * • •
If an agricultural settlement like Yanco
wants the freehold as a matter of sentiment
there is little visible reason why it
shouldn’t have it. Sentiment grows in the
wide spaces; it rarely grows in a slum.
“Home, sweet home” is a country idea. The
man of the city is accustomed to having a
landlord, and the State would suit him bet-
ter than any other. He doesn’t expect to
hand down his house and allotment and back
yard to future generations. There is no
slum evil in the agricultural districts which
requires State ownership as a remedy. The
trouble is loneliness rather than overcrowd-
ing. There is need to prevent the accumula-
tion of unduly large areas, and the holding
of land which is put to no good use. A tax
on agricultural rents would make the pro-
perty worth less when it was held as an in-
vestment than when held by the man who
actually used it. But as regards the modest
occupier who is a worker and not a specula-
tor or looter, it is difficult to see that the
leasehold has any advantages over the free-
hold. If the feeling of ownership will make
the farmer more patriotic, more permanent,
and less like a boarder or bird of passage it
is so much to the good. The regions of pre-
carious seasons and sensational droughts
have a disadvantage which is exclusively
their own. The man who has half his money
invested in land and the other half in crops
or stock can’t lose more than one-half in a
year of supreme disaster. The man who
doesn’t own the land and has all his money
in crops or stock can lose everything, and
drop, inside a few months, from comparative
affluence to being a pauper with a rent-bill.
Therefore financial institutions which have
to meet their own losses and haven’t the
Treasury to fall back upon are chary about
lending to the State leaseholder or any other
leaseholder outside the fairly reliable rain-
fall area. He has no better security to offer
than a decent poker-hand, and is a 25 per
cent. risk.
EVERY MAN HIS OWN DISTILLER.
One of the most conspicuous curses of our
rhodern civilisation is the maximalist —the
noisy theory-monger who makes a more or
less dishonest living by clamoring for what
he knows he can never get. Industrially, he
is a Walsh or a Tom Mann, one whose
admitted business it is to pile “demand upon
demand, strike, upon strike” until chaos is
reached. In another sphere the type is seen,
mostly in clerical garb, fighting Y.D. reform.
The argument here is that man must be
reasoned into complete sinlessness; failing
which, he should be left to stew in the juice
of his own iniquity. Compulsory notifica-
tion, early treatment, prophylactics, police
supervision of disorderly houses —all such
remedies are spurned, though, indisputably,
the tendency of every one of them would be
to save thousands of blameless persons—
mostly women and children —from misery.
During the Peace negotiations further speci-
mens of the breed caused embarrassment by
claiming on the one hand that Germany
should be wiped right out, and, on the other,
that the Allies were acting like tyrants in
requiring any reparation at all. It is easy
to posture as the one just man on such lines;
and the person with the knack of doing it
well is liable to reap much kudos and profit.
But nothing is more hampering to progress.
A notable instance is the total-abolition ideal
which anti-drink crusaders have lately set up.
* * * *
Man has been making intoxicants of one
sort or another ever since he emerged from
the tree-haunting stage. And he probably
had the stimulant habit before that. On the
ground that a small section of the popula-
tion make beasts of themselves with liquor,
under certain alterable conditions, the pro-
hibitionist requires the whole nation to cut
out all drink for good. The ultimatum is as
safe a one as a working reformer in search
of a steady crusading job for life could
deliver. It is a legal truism that distasteful
laws are unenforceable. The effect of them is
to manufacture dminals. No one with any
knowledge of our unfortunately fallible
human nature is going to believe that the
people who have the stimulant habit are
going to cut it out without a struggle. And,
in any event, there are plenty of object-les-
sons. Mr. 11. P. Williams, of Sydney, re-
turned last week after a six-months’ stay
in Canada and the U.S.A., and remarked to
the S. M. Hb:rald :
As a life-long total abstainer I have come back
bitterly disappointed in what I saw in regard to
prohibition in Canada and the U.S.A. In Canada
the whole thing is a farce. In Vancouver one
doctor issued something like 400 prescriptions for
spirits in 20 days, while in Februarv last at Winni-
peg the local doctors issued over 23,000 prescriptions
for from one to six bottles of spirits.
As regards the bone-dry States of America
he quoted from the official report of the
Chief Revenue Agent for the U.S.A. as fol-
lows :
Your Government officers are now destroying stills
at the rate of 400 per month, and moonshine whisky
at the monthly rate of 27,000 gallons. And yet there
remains enough of the undestroyed product for it to
sell in Tennessee at prices weill below those for
revenue-paying liquor.
Considering the question of whisky alone, we find
that in the very improbable event that your revenue
men seize so much as 10 per cent, of all the illicit
product, there must be consumed of that product some
12,000,000 quarts a year.
Once we have prohibition the incentives to moon-
shining and unlawful drug-peddling will naturally in-
crease, and your internal revenue service will
have a still more difficult task than at present to
perform.
There is not the slightest doubt, on the
world’s evidence, that the excise and license
systems help to keep drunkenness within
reasonable bounds in most places, and that,
where anything else is attempted, the drink
habit becomes more prevalent. When Zola
wrote “L’Assommoir” the Normandy peas-
ants were allowed to make their own liquor.
They made, chiefly, cider and a brandy
called'Calvados—both potent enough to over-
throw the strongest-headed who came upon
them for the first time. It was noticeable
that the richer any district was in the raw
material the more drink —and drunkenness
—appeared. . The Vallee d’Auge, for ex-
ample, was richest in cider-apples; and for
years Lisieux, in the middle of the valley,
held the reputation of being the most
drunken town in France. When the French
Government embarked on liquor reform,
shortly before the war, the right to distil
was taken away from the peasants. How-
ever, they continued to do it very much as
before, and to such purpose that members
of the A.1.F., on leave in the Normandy
country from Le Havre, found little diffi-
culty in buying stuff by the bottle for from
sd. to 10d., which would have cost them as
many shillings in London.
* * * *
A good example of the difficulty of check-
ing illicit distilling was provided at Holds-
worthy (N.S.W.) Concentration Camp.
There was a battalion of soldiers to guard
6000 prisoners. Any member of the guard
could go anywhere in the camp at any time.
Everything that reached the Germans from
outside was examined beforehand. And, of
course, the sale or possession of any sort of
strong drink was forbidden. Yet it has
never been denied by the authorities that
alcohol, brewed from vegetable-peelings,
fruit and the like, in stills roughly made
from jam-tins, was freely on sale. A nobbier
at Holdsworthy wasn’t even dearer to the
pursuer of oblivion than one outside; for
though it cost twice as much it was twice
as strong. If illicit distilling was unpre-.
ventable in a prison camp, with one full-
powered guard to every six internees, what
would not be possible in civilian life in a
country like Australia, whose suburbs
occasionally run to one policeman on duty
per 10,000 inhabitants, while many of its
outback districts don’t see a representative
of the law once in three months? As the
law stands at present, an Australian’s home
is his castle to the extent that no one can
legally burst into it without a search war-
rant. Life would be intolerable otherwise;
yet, unless the total prohibitionists are going
to alter the position in this respect, there is
not the remotest chance of the authorities
discovering a hundredth part of the raw
spirit-making that will inevitably start the
minute licensed drinking is abolished.
Briefly, prohibition has not a hope of pro-
hibiting in a continent as productive in the
fruit and vegetable line, as sparsely popu-
lated, and as impatient of old-womanish re-
straint as Australia. Its chief effects would
be to cost the taxpayer a great deal of
money in officials; to deprive the Govern-
ment of the liquor revenue at a time when
there is particular need of 'revenue; to
severely tempt many normally law-abiding
citizens to become law-breakers; and to fill
the country with deleterious alcohol in place
of the mature and broken-down refreshment
which is mostly in evidence now.
Though there is no way by which strong
drink can be abolished, there are many
ways by which its abuse may be prevented.
The bar, like the racecourse, has been
diverted from its original purpose. One
has degenerated into a boozing-den; the
other into a betting-shop. If public-
houses were made taverns again; if the
fact that, after reasonable warning, a
publican would automatically lose his
license for allowing so much as one drunk
on his premises; and if the liquor sold was
honest, as it often is not at present—if these
conditions were brought about, the scan-
dalous street inebriate would quickly vanish.
As regards drinking to excess in private—
which may include anything from occasional
celebrative bursts to dipsomania—one cer-
tainty is that Acts of Parliament will no
more stop it than they, will stop strikes or
sin. But education will do much—how
much is to be seen by comparing the social
habits of this century with those of (say)
the English Regency period. And the tack-
ling of the diseases, such as syphilis, which
are at the root of the drink craze, and de-
generacy generally, will do more. There are
three classes that strongly oppose these and
all other changes likely to check “soaking”—
the chronic drunk, the quasi-criminal pub-
keeper who wants to make money as quickly
as possible and get out, and the prohibition-
ist More especially the prohibitionist. The
last thing the prohibitionist who lives on the
game wants is to have his horrible examples
destroyed. That is why lie angrily refuses
to join those who are working to get the
liquor trade under proper control, and puts
forward as his policy a scheme which has
never worked on any considerable so*.le since
civilisation began.
THE CLEAN SOLDIER AND THE
DIRTY CIVILIAN.
The other day Dr. Cumpston, Federal
Director of Quarantine, quoted official figures
showing that 55,000 members of the A.I.F.
had suffered from V.D. during the war.
Whereupon David Storey, N. S. Wales
Minister for Public Health who should have
known better, denounced the statement as
“a cruel libel,” and went on to say:—
I take the responsibility of questioning the ac-
curacy of the information upon which Dr. Cumpston
has based his statement. It appeals to me as
slandering our brave defenders to state that practi-
cally one in every six has been contaminated by
this dreadful disease.
Sydney Sun called Dr. Cumpston’s figures
“grossly inaccurate and alarmist,” and
opined that they would “make girls chary of
marrying soldiers.” They are instances of
the tragic ignorance which is common
everywhere in regard to V.D. To the un-
instructed it seems so appalling as to be
almost unbelievable that 55,000 out of a
force of less than 450,000 should, during five
years, have contracted complaints which, till
recently, were unmentionable outside hospi-
tals. As a matter of fact, the most remark-
able thing about the figures is their small-
ness. Some years ago Dr. Findlay, then
M.L. Attorney-General, investigated this
question, and found that in any given year
80 per cent, of all adults in the Dominion
either had, or had had, some form of venereal
disease. Havelock Ellis estimated that in
England 38 per cent, of adults under 40
years of age were suffering or had suffered
from it; and the figures obtained from hos-
pital and medical sources in France and
America are approximately the same. In
all countries it is agreed that V.D. is pre-
eminently the rich man's disease. The West
End of London and the great cosmopolitan
ports through which the rich are always
passing—Port Said, San Francisco, New
York —are its chosen homes; it is compara-
tively rare in the country and amongst
middle-class or poor town-dwellers who are
outside the criminal zone.
* * * *
Our soldiers went abroad as rich men.
When they got leave they visited at first
Cairo and afterwards London, two of the
most insanitary cities, venereally speaking,
in the world. All were young, and most of
them were very young. Yet, after five years
abroad, in places where they were without
home restraints; where drink of a villainous
character was plentiful; and where the only
companionship available to many of them
was that of undesirables, only one in eight
of the total became infected. And, in making
that estimate, it has to be remembered that
the official 55,0€0 includes hundreds of
wastrels who never enlisted to fight in the
first instance, and who deliberately took
steps to be sent back to the V.D. hospitals
over and over again. For the fact that the
V.D. position is and always has been so
much better in the A.I.F. than it is in civil
life Australia has to thank a number of
people. The regimental M.O.’s tirelessly ex-
plained to officers and men the hideous
dangers they incurred by consorting with
all and sundry. A.I.F. Headquarters, after
■ a short struggle with, the ultra-moralists, in-
stituted a depot in London for the free sup-
ply of prophylactics. But perhaps most good
was done by Miss Ettie Rout, a devoted
M.L. lady who, leaving nothing to chance,
went after the boys on leave, personally and
by circular, and through the organisation she
built up was undoubtedly the means of sav-
ing thousands of them from ruin. Of those
who fell and incurred the penalty, there is
this, anyhow, to be said. Their trouble was
tackled at the earliest possible moment, by
highly-skilled specialists; patients were
treated under the most favorable conditions
possible; and they were kept in hospital till
they were cured. In all of these respects
their position was superior to that of the
average civilian, who often delays, owing to
weakness or ignorance, visiting a doctor; or
who patronises a quack ; or who drops his
treatment months before he is well.
* * # *
The clean women of Australia need not be
afraid to marry returned soldiers. As be-
tween a soldier and a civilian, the
chances are at the worst two to one in favor
of the fighting-man. When the soldier first
lands the odds are hundreds to one on his
being free from V.D. For no member of the
A.I.F. is discharged from hospital till he. is
cured, or anyhow while he is in a condition
of infectivity; and, so far as those below
commissioned rank are concerned, they are
subject to inspection for V.D. up to the day
their transport berths. It has always been
a weak feature of the military system which
the Commonwealth borrowed from England
that the same procedure is not followed in the
case of officers. However, the average officer
presumably possesses enough intelligence—
putting it no higher—to undergo treatment
when he incurs disease ; and for such unfortu-
nates there are many plausible reasons avail-
able for a delayed return. Professor Anderson
Stuart, as president of the University of


Sydney Society for Combating Venereal
Diseases, showed a rare appreciation of the
real position when last year he called on the
N. S. Wales Government for anti-venereal
legislation “because of the conditions which
must develop under post-war conditions
Me specified “instability and unsettlement
inseparable from demobilisation,” and the
dangers arising from “a considerable floating
population of men of military age under con-
ditions predisposing to excitement and irre-
sponsibility.” In other words, the danger
is largely to the clean soldiers from the in-
fected civilians. And how could it be other-
wise? In. every State of the Conxmonwealth
the prostitute flourishes as freely as the
plague-carriers did in the Middle Ages. And
to quote the Medical Journal of Aus-
tralia (21/6/’l9) : “Prostitution in Aus-
tralia is the main breeding-ground for
venei - eal disease, over 25 per cent, of prosti-
tutes chronically suffering from, and there-
fore spreading, venereal disease.” In N. S.
Wales the Veneral Diseases Act has just
been postponed as an operative measure till
1920. In other States there is anti-venereal
legislation, mostly inadequate, and every-
where it is being half-heartedly administered.
With courage this continent could be freed
of one of the greatest curses which afflicts
mankind in a decade or less. The achieve-
ment of the Medical Corps in keeping V.D.
in the A.I.F. at a minimum, despite the han-
dicap of social conditions abroad, is one
proof of it.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
»
The Donation that Samuel McCaughey
Forgot.
The late Samuel McCaughey scattered his
fortune of £1,750,000 or so among more or
less deserving institutions, mostly in the Ma
State, and yet forgot the most deserving of
all. He didn’t leave anything to the Public
Debt Sinking Fund, which really should
have received the lot, because it is unsecta-
rian, it is for the benefit of everybody, and
it deals with the biggest evil. Debt is an
evil, else Samuel McCaughey wouldn’t
have kept out of it so carefully, and a State
debt of nearly £160,000,000 is big enough to
be visible. The poor old N. S. Wales .Sink-
ing Fund has only grown by £107,780 (from
£386,388 to £494,163) in 17 years (say
£6340 per annum), and in the same period
the debt increased by about £90,000,000. If
Samuel McCaughey had'ordered his entire
£1,730,000 to be invested in the good cause
and fixed where no State Treasurer could
break in and steal, that would have made
the fund 4-J times as big as it is and added
at least £87,500 a year to the accumulation
to begin •with. The investment at current
rates would pay off the present debt in 90
years. It is a long while to look forward,
but in endowing churches which are sup-
posed to last till sin is extinct and the
Devil is dead, and subsidising universities,
which are supposed to last till some way is
found of having babies born educated, he
was looking forward much further, and
to a much less definite and all-
embracing purpose. Furthermore, he would
have been doing something unusual—
something that would resound through the
world—and he would have set a brilliant
example and shown himself the one rich man
who saw a vast danger ahead. Few people
seem to realise that the bottom has fallen
out of Australia’s finance. Hitherto Britain
has been our standby, because Britain had
surplus money and was a lending country—-
the greatest one on earth. Now the war has
changed all that, and Britain is a borrow-
ing country the same as Australia. So many
of its foreign investments have been de-
stroyed or Bolsheviked ; so many have been
sold to the United States to raise the wind;,
and so much has been actually borrowed
from the United States, that Britain is now
reckoned to owe more in other countries
than is owing to it. Instead of interest
pouring in to be re-lent, it is going out.
Whether Britain will ever regain its position
depends on its luck in fighting an uphill battle
against the new universal creditor Uncle
Sam ; but the grievous slump in production,
through industrial troubles and other things,
makes its people feel anxious. Not only
may new loans be difficult in the old familiar
ouarter, but the renewal of old ones may be
difficult. And Australia isn’t doing much to
meet its own troubles—£494,l63 saved up
against £160,000,000 is no great thing. Aus-
tralia may yet find itself appealing to the
new universal creditor. In the case of
Britain, accommodation was business mixed
with sentiment —just enough sentiment to
prevent Bull asking any more than the in-
terest. He didn’t, for instance, make his
loans conditional on the admission of his
goods on a maximum 5 per cent, tariff as
happens to motherless places like China. A
foreign lender with an eye solely to “bith-
nith” might do that. He might demand pre-
ference over all other suppliers. He might
even demand control of the Customs as
security. Any far-seeing millionaire would
do his bit towards meeting future trouble by
putting the sinking fund first on his list of
charitable donations. It has a bigger
religious claim than the Church, for the
Bible, while vague on many points, is very-
definite in saying “Qwe no man anything.”
This is a heathen lnnd forgoing so much in
debt not out of as a matter
of choice. : V *
♦
The Gentle Art of “Going It.”
The customary attitude of an Australian
Treasurer to-day is that of one who heaves a
great sigh of relief and has had a grand
piano lifted off his chest. Money, he says,
has been scarce during the war time, and
necessary public loan works have had to be
postponed. But now that peace has settled
on the world (barring the chronic war in
Russia, and a whole-soujed scrap between
Roumania and and desultory
Franco-Serbo-Italian - troutues ; and_. the en-
larged armaments of xfnsan and the ‘indus-f
trial wans which rdge itf‘thany places) things
are going to look up. These Treasurers
stick out their waistcoat buttons and profess
to have performed marvels of economy during
the last .few years, anti made Is. do the
work of half a crown. Yet it is interesting
to note that in the four war years they
contrived to add £75,000,000 to the peace or
public-works debt, whereas in the previous
four years of calm they added only
£60,000,000. Their pose as struggling econo-
mists who had to carry a great burden with
insufficient means is worse than guff —it is
a shameful and premeditated reversal of the
truth. And their attitude as haggard and
famished patriots who voluntarily kept off
the loan market so that it might be avail-
able for Federal war purposes is sheer in-
solence. Neither the war necessities nor
the frightful interest rate made them ease
off in the least; in fact, these happenings
made them rather madder than usual. Owing
to the troubles in Europe and elsewhere there
were 200,000 or 300,000 less men looking
for employment, so in the ordinary course of
things it might have been imagined that all
loan works would have been stopped that
the man-power which remained might keep
ordinary industries going. By doing that, and
by persuading the workers who remained to
do an extra hour per day with a correspond-
ing increase of wutges, the crisis might have
been met. It was 3000 times more im-
portant to prevent industries dying out or
getting into a state of arrested development
and the work drifting—perhaps permanently
—into foreign hands than to build unpay-
able railways which would do any day.
Instead of taking this view the remarkable
Treasurers got so many people out of self-
supporting industry that it required more
loans to keep the reduced population going,
and now that the lost population is coming
back they don’t know what to do with it
except raise still bigger loans. With a
number of able-bodied' men equal to the
entire factory population, male and female,
out of the way, these financiers found the
habit of leaving (iff remunerative work so
easy and congenial that they were presently
struggling to find semi-charitable employ-
ment for the people who remained on their
hands. In the four war years about 4000
miles of new railways were opened, as
against about 5500 miles in the previous 13
years. N. S. Wales, which wasn’t the, worst
offender for mere mileage, had 600 injie.s
new line to its credit. The lloi.MA&;,vyaf-
time record to June, 1918, included
to Merrygoen (loss for year £2803
s J fl93 >’ Cargelligo (*8064), Humnltu
(£17,208), Coonabarabran (£18,239), Tot-
tenham, where the- ghost of the abandoned
State wheat farm is (£7722). Forbes
Griffith (£7293). Merriwa
(£10,910), Ivempsey (£59,765), /Goff’s
Harbor (£10,619), South Grafton (£13,497),
Mungtindi (£14,329), and sundries.;, The
figures for another year (to June, 3919)
should be available shortly. The cause of
the trouble is possibly the laok of an in-
dustrial populates tr anywhere outside Sydney
to supply a hajpsaf‘;«iarket. Tl>» farmers
can t eat each other’!* wheat. Yet N S
Wales isn’t the most remarkable ' case,
measured by mifes. Queensland, with not
much more tlmh'« one-third the population,-
opened nearly 860lniles of new railway in
the war-time —a most commendable thing to
do with the State’s own money, but not
much of a deed with scarce and dear labor
and loan money : m|,s orssi per cent. Still.
Holman managed; Bi get': through the most
loan money, not merely-Vjm'/tfhe lump but per
inhabitant. • And Holman smites his chest
hardest over liis struggles while loans were
scarce and railway-building difficult, and
about his blessed relief to think that the
cloud is lifted so that he will now be able
to “go it’’ in a manner suitable to his
talents. He is the man who heaves the
biggest sigh. And if Holman, after the
way he has gone it. is really and truly just
beginning to go it, the spectacle is terrify-
ing. Nor is it improved by the fact that
John Storey regards Holman’s past efforts
and proposed efforts with contempt, the real
art of going it, in John’s, opinion, not being
developed yet.
Webster’s Telegrams.
The Bulletin is invited by P.M.G. Web-
STEti to stand off and admire the organisa-
tion which has produced the unquestionably
better financial results shown by his Depart-
ment during the last couple of years. But
it prefers to help its old poetic friend with
an expert s account of a branch in which
some further organisation is literally shrieked
T he troabk with Webster's telegraph service, as
with the overburdened railways, is centralisation.
Sydney is the worst offender. For instance, a very
heavy telegraph business is done between the North
Coast and New England districts and Newcastle. AH
this traffic is repeated through Sydney, in spite of
the fact that the wires actually pass through New-
castle. This means a needless double handling, in
and out, at Sydney, and consequent delay. Practi-.
cally all teleg aph communication, even between
neighboring places hundreds of miles away, is
effected through Sydney. A telegram from Temora
to Coolamon travels to Sydney and back, about 700
miles, being “sent” and “received” eight times, to
reach a point 40 miles from where it started. Obvi-
ously lines can’t be run for every telegram; but it
is time the repeating centres (Wagga, Goulburn,
Cootamundra, etc.) were given direct communica-
tion with each other. More direct avenues for the
disposal of inter-country business would thus be
provided. Some stupid things are also done in
the suburbs. As a sample, a wire lodged in
Haberfield for Five Dock, a mile away, is first
transmitted to Sydney, retransmitted to Ashfield, and
finally ’phoned to Five Dock —six handlings. The
capital cities are also the medium for nearly all
inter-State communication. Thus, the hopelessly-
overburdened capital city lines are cluttered up
with messages they should never see—for instance,
the heavy Melbourne-Riverina traffic. Allegedly
Albury repeats for about 90 Riverina stations; but
owing to lax supervision at Melbourne most of this
business passes through Sydney. The service between
the capital cities is a disgrace. The introduction
some years ago of the streaking 150-words-per-
minute automatic telegraph eased the spam for a
time. But the ever-increasing volume 'ffelegraphy
has caught up so that even the fleeting auto,
is three or four hours in 6 p. m . This
means . that wires lodged between,'? Adelaide, Mel-
bourne,. Sydney an (J Brisbane a. 30 to 4
p.m. afte not .fll|nextid4r- ’: Among tele-
graph ope ators ifc isYdmfiitm, knowledge that senders
of “meet me on arrival’’ wires, frequently beat their
• '
telegrams to the neighboring capital. Round Sydney
and suburbs a pedestrian could beat 99 wires in a
hundred to their destinations.
Colored Brethren in Africa.
South Africa is threatened, among other
troubles, with a Hindu movement. The de-
mand is one which was bound to come
sooner or later—for equal political rights and
full recognition of tne brown men s status
as British citizens. In India the matter is
shelved by giving Parliamentary rights to
nobody, so that, on paVer at least, there is
no invidious distinction. The handful of
white people—about 120,000, including
soldiers, or one in 3000 of the total—don’t
mind being disfranchised any more than the
Czar of Itussia did, because they are the
ruling eftste. And, anyhow, they are mere
birds of passage. But where the white man
has come, to work and rear a family and
stay, he Wants Parliamentary government,
and if he has a coiftTfed"'brother within his
gates he must either give a vote to the
colored brother also or keep him convinced
that he is an inferior being. In Natal, if
the imported Indian is given what he asks
for, lie and his children will run the show
and the white man will have his laws made
for him. If the movement spreads, and the
Kaffir gets “political freedom,” which be
will certainly demand should (he Hindu get
it, he will run the whole business of law-
making-. and the Indian will be second best,
with the white man third. South Africa
has made two disastrous experiments at im-
porting colored labor. The Cape is dis-
tinctly a white man’s climate. But the Kaffir
was there; and wherever the colored man
is, even if it be the Polar regions, it is un-
fashionable ■ for the white man to do hard
work. As, however, the Kaffir wouldn’t
work steadily,v*tsie Hindu in Natal and later
the Chinamaß'Vpn the Band were imported.
The latter was got rid of after he had
established a reign: of terror, which is one
reason, why tb>e Boer hates the Briton
with a solid, hatred. But the Hindu
refuses to'! be; got rid of. He was
introduced to work for the white man
for a few y'e|Ts under contract. He remains
to vyo|lfc, foß',l : y million years on his own
aceont|t;Nand,. J elbow the white man out by
his yben|>nefjs and his low standard of liv-
introduced because a certain
£'rf>Wd short-sighted capitalists
wanted a 'laboring class .which wouldn’t de-
mand a vote. It has got a laboring class
which demands a vote, and which is three
times as hard to deal with as the white
worker, for it is separated by race, color,
religion and “class-consciousness” instead < f
by the last only. In Natal, where the trouble
is worst, the white population in 1891 out-
numbered the Asiatics by only 5640. In
1911 the Asiatics outnumbered the whites
by 35,325. What the census of 1921 will
show is a matter of speculation. Yet they can’t
be got rid of, because they have India and
the Empire (India is three r fourths of the
Empire) behind them. They might have been
kept out in the first place ; but: they weren’t,
apgpttpw they are eatlpg up the land. A few
ss|rs of a problem
which is likely to last wl 'judgment Day and
settle the prospects of the white man in South
Africa. The Union has no big towns in the
Australian sense, but out of the 12 prin-
cipal towns six showed loss of white people
in 1911. This matter affects Australia, be-
cause the Hindu —the one rabbit-like alien
who can’t be “fired” when he once arrives
because lie isn’t a political alien but our
own imperial brother —grows more and more
clamorous for admission to Australia and
more and more inclined to anneal to the
League of Nations on the subject. He has
more population to spare than any other
race on earth. He is accumulating new
population faster than most races. And he
grows increasingly eloquent on the. theme
that Australia doesn’t want its North—that
it won’t grow cotton there; that it isn’t do-
ing much with sugar; that, in fact, it grows
hardly anything under the new Bolshevik
order of things except strikes. And what
can we answer? The White Australia ques-
tion isn’t finished. It is only beginning. And
our own folly is making it more difficult.
»
The Pride of Imports.
The importing business has as many aspects
as a three-headed hypocrite. During the
year just ended (June 30) Australia im-
ported to the value of close on £99.000,000
and exported rather less than £113,000,000.
The difference provided £13,857.027 towards
paying interest to Federal and State money-
lenders ; also to absentee shareholders, land-
lords and financiers, and tribute to traders.
Of course it was nothing like sufficient, so
the country went further into debt. Local
production of all sorts during the year was
presumably about £271,000.000, the same as
the previous year, though the figures are not
available yet. So after exporting £ll3 000,000
worth Australia retained £158,000,000 of its
own goods for its own consumption, and used
£99,000,000 worth of foreign goods. That
is to say. out of every £257 worth of things
consumed there was £l5B worth the price of
which could be regulated more or less, and
£99 worth for which the profiteer, both
maker and carrier, being outside our juris-
diction. could charge very much as he
pleased. The £l5B covers the few very
bulky items —wheat, meat, bricks, etc.; and
the £99 covers multitudinous large and small
items. Knibbs’s latest list of imports
(Quarterly Summary: Dec., 1918) covers
28 pages and the exports only 14, so it may
be inferred that out of every three articles
we use there is bhe on Which profiteering
can be. regulated and two on which it can’t
be regulated to any extent worth mentioning.
Owing to the fact that the country exports
nearly half its raw materials, many of them
to be made up at great cost and sent back
to us in a manufactured state, there were
last year about £212,000,000 worth of goods
on which sea freight had to be paid
(£99,000,000 one way and £113.000.000 the
other way) and only £158.000,000 -worth on
which we didn’t pay freight. Except from
Japan freights are mighty high these days,
and when four-sevenths of the things we
handle have to pay for an average of per-
haps 10.000 miles of sea draggage in addi-
tion to land draggage before they reach the
sea. it eats up the money that the housewife
wants badly fob her marketing. All this
freight, except the mere trifle earned by the
Commonwealth steamers, goes to absentee
capitalists. It is stated with satisfaction,
under the “Trade” heading in the daily
papers, that Australia depended more on
foreign goods and was more helpless without
foreign goods last year than ever before- —in
other words, the imports by other people’s
ships are a record. The fattest king might
as well be filled with pride because he was
less able to get about without assistance
than any of his predecessors.
Helping' the Farmer.
Carmichael, of the N. S. Wales People’s
party, has announced the simple financial
policy of his organisation. After saying
that the land-settlement policy had absorbed
£0,000,000 and totally failed, he recom-
mended a new tax of 1 per cent, on the
capital value —say 20 per cent, on the rental
value —of all land so as to smite the failed
settler in a fresh place for his encourage-
ment. With the proceeds there is to be
established “a sound land bank for truer
close settlement.” Also the financial burdens
of the farmer are to be reduced, though
putting a big new tax on him doesn’t seem
much reduction; and railway charges are
to be lowered and new lines built. Official
estimates on the subject of land values are
not quite up to date, but according to
latest calculations Carmichael’s impost
would bring in about £1.700,000 a year if
it could be all collected, less cost of gather-
ing it in from 240,391 property-owners, of
whom 91,019 would be liable for an average
of 9s. sd. each, and another 47,661 for an
average of 235. 9d. each. It is a long way
to go to Menindie for 9s. 5d., and that sort
of tax would take a lot of collecting. Aus-
tralia, thanks to tin l graduated land-tax and
other things, tends towards small freeholds.
The wealth census unearthed only 12,182
worth over £5OOO, the average value being
£14,750 apiece. These included city pro-
perties in Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne,.
Adelaide and Perth, very valuable for build-
ing purposes, but unfit for subdivision be-
cause they were only large enough to feed
a goat. Some of these, such as the blocks
on which the big life assurance offices and
banks are built, are the joint properties of
thousands of people. Part of the theory
about the great freeholds of Australia is
based on the mistaken impression that the
big squatters are freeholders instead of State
leaseholders. Part arises from the importa-
tion of ignorant persons who come here
with the knowledge that the Duke of
Sutherland owns 1.358,600 acres, or one-
fifteenth of a kingdom, and take the rest
for granted. The multiplicity of small land-
holders —of unsuccessful and embittered
small landholders—is calculated to bring
Carmichael’s scheme to naught. And his
idea of the number of things that can be
done with £1,700,000 a year—banking, rail-
way-building, removal of burdens, reduction
of railway rates, etc.—is grotesque. Hol-
man could lose that amount before break-
fast. The People’s party had better con-
centrate on Federal politics for a while and
think about an extra 10 or 20 per cent,
on imports, which is easier than doing
battle with 91,619 selectors for 9s. sd. each.
As for State politics, the chief need ‘s
economy.
*.
Incuberra.
Sydney Telegraph lately sent a man to
Canberra, to write a series of articles “with-
out bias”; and these extracts are a fail-
sample of the result:—
From the Capitol as from the University and other
centres will radiate great avenues, a series of double
roads separated by park land 100 ft. in width, and
at tlie end of each straight avenue will be some
p ominent point or great building. The avenues
have been laid out and some of them have already
been marked by roads. nut the lakes, the builtl-
the parks, the great city await the hand of
the builder. .. .And how few citizens, even of N. S.
Wales, have seen it ?
Probably none of them have seen it, as it
still “aw-aits the hand of the builder.” • But
the hand has already cost well over
£1,000,000, and all the glories are being
waited for and waiting to be paid for. As
regards existing things, it is merely men-
tioned that there are hills in the distance
and that “the plain itself is naturally bare.”
In a general way it doesn’t matter how
much a city costs provided it does some-
thing to earn its keep. Most cities ought
to have cost a great deal more than they did,
if their cheap appearance is a criterion. But
a city which doesn’t earn anything—which
is simply a political dwelling-place—is like
1.-ouis XlV.’s palace of Versailles, or the
nine castles of an English duke, multi-
plied by a hundred dozen. The more loan
money it costs the bigger the interest bill,
and the bigger it is the more it costs for
upkeep and repair. It is a serious matter
for .1,000.000 people to put up a city of
great buildings and 100 ft. avenues and arti-
ficial lakes if the place has no earning
capacity of its own. Washington and
Ottawa, for instance, are both artificial capi-
tals, but they help to earn their oats by
commerce and manufactures. Not even
P ictures que writer on the subject
of lOOtt. avenues and ornamental lakes and
pyiamidal buildings a pyramid is promised
—suggests that Canberra has any advan-
tages that way. It is always depicted as
a splendid pauper—the one really splendid
metropolitan pauper on earth.
Britain’s Recreant Bobby.
From an old friend of his:—
The English policeman has existed in approxi-
mately his present form for 90 years. The peeler
to begin with was a picked man, and was paid as
such, according to the wage-standard of the early
part of the Victorian epoch. Since the war began
he has been underpaid by comparison with some
men of his class—notably munitioners, many of whom
handed in taxes last year on incomes of £6OO
to £looo—though -he has all along neen-affluent as
compared with the rank and fije in tin; trenches, and,
till last year, at seal In September, 1918, the
fiist in the history of the force occurred


( yjusfra.fia."
THE PREMIER HOTEL IN THE COMMONWEALTH
THE RENDEZVOUS OF THE ELITE.
ENTERTAIN YOUR FRIENDS
IN THE WINTER GARDEN at
Morning Tea, Afternoon. Tea or
Theatre Supper—Strawberries and
Cream, Fruit Salads, Ices. Delect-
able Confections and Cool Drinks tr
your fancy.
Say or 'Phone Your Requirements,
and our Experts do the rest.
The Manager
)3
'fSSi
ill London. It '.vas for more pay. The demon-
stration was well timed and placed from the stand-
point of the strikers. London was crammed with*
aliens, many of them dangerous criminals. The
handling of its tremendous city and West End
traffic is an expert’s job. And owing to the air-raid
peril the streets and houses were unlighted. On the
first night of the strike four burglaries occurred in
the Strand alone ; and if it had continued there is no
doubt looting would have become general. The
authorities caved in and agreed to the men s de-
mands.
Last week’s strike in London, Liverpool and else-
where was also well timed, in the sense that it
offered the best possible chance of blackmailing
big concessions out of the Home Office. Ihe
country is fighting for its national and industrial
life against the propagandists of revolution. Work
is scarce, though it shouldn’t be, the purchasing
power of the sovereign has slumped painfully, and
food is being rationed by the charges of profiteers,
who often haven’t the sense or decency, to keep
their disgusting opulence to themselves. It is at
tiiis stage that the police have not only struck, but,
if the Police Commissioner’s view is right, have in
some cases incited the crowd to take advantage of
the strike. All these men have been “sworn in”
as State servants for the preservation of order; and
they are, accordingly, mutineers in the same way
as sailors would be who downed weapons during
an engagement.
What is the explanation of such a vast and sud-
den change of form on the part of a body which for
over half a century has been the pride of all
Britishers.? The answer is that the officer
who used to be Britain’s pride is mostly dead or
disabled. The good policemen went to the war as
a matter of self respect; the bad ones found all
softs of reasons for staying at liimo. In. the last
three years the police force all over England and
Scotland has vied with Whitehall as a resort of
men who have seen little service, service at a base,
or none at all. The natural psychological effect
in a country, where, at one stage, semi-cripplcs,
much less stout young 13-stoners, were forced to
serve, was to make the policeman’s already indif-
ferent morale worse. If, in the coming months,
the British bobby’s morale turns out to be even
rottener than it has proved in the past year, there
is a bad time ahead for all but looters and des-
peradoes.
Certain teetotallers and others who have
returned from “dry” missions in the United
States are lamenting that Australia is un-
known there. The complaint isn’t new.
“The paucity of information regarding the
resources of the Commonwealth in respect
to primary products is almost unbelievable,”
says one. Well, does it really matter? The
man in the street doesn’t signify. • Even
if he knew we had rabbits he wouldn’t send
a ship here to load up with rabbits. The
mere handful of people who count —the
people who buy things in quantities, not
for sentiment but as a matter of business —
are quite aware that we have rabbits and
that they don’t want them. If we have any-
thing that they do want we will probably
find that they know as much about it as
we do ourselves. The mass of Australians
are blankly ignorant about Brazil and
Nicaragua and Uganda, hut the people of
these places sell us coffee and cotton-shirt
tails just, the same. If they wasted time
and money on pamphlets and picture-films
describing their waterfalls and beer cata-
racts and big trees it would be merely
educating people who can afford to pay for
their own education. The best way to
advertise Australia in America is to state
that, having got to work making things for
ourselves, we can do without U.S. “notions”
in future, and we don’t need to care if
that country never hears about us any more.
Then indeed Uncle Sam will take notice,
and books about this goldarned continent
will be in demand.
—♦
“Fax” : Nothing will as effectively serve
to cheapen prices in this country as a League
of Consumers who will loyally combine to
reduce their consumption. The cure for pro-
fiteering is in the hands of the public, who
eat and drink more than enough to keep
their strength up, buy the over-priced
luxuries they don’t need at all, rush the
“bargain sales” of new clothes and fripperies
ere their “old” stuff is half worn out, and
generally persist in encouraging every sort
of profiteer to do his worst. Prices are only
raised to the consumers who suffer each suc-
cessive increase. When they cease to bid
eig'hteenpence for a commodity, or super-
fluity, it is presently knocked down to a bob.
Trades unionism has worked much reforma-
tion in the law of supply and demand as
regards the labor market: consumers’ union-
ism could do likewise with the goods market.
But, seeing that consumers never did, nor
will, combine, save in the direction of co-
operative stores, the only conceivable means
of checking rapacity in Private Enterprise
would he co-op. stores —conducted, for pre-
ference, under Government supervision of
the hooks —the stores to be allied with co-
operative factories, co-operative buying
agencies importing the few goods that cannot
be locally produced.
From a Norfolk Islander■
What is the difference in status between a child
born in a State of the Commonwealth and one born
in a territory of the same? When I was a resident
of N. S. Wales the Commonwealth handed out a fiver
for every addition to my responsibilities. However,
I left N, S. Wales and came here. Since then I’ve
assumed some more responsibilities, but I’ve been
informed that the law does not extend here. Why
not ?
The Bulletin doesn’t know. But that is
the way of it. The Pensions and Maternity
Allowance Office advises that “the Act pro-
vides that the maternity allowance shall be
payable only to women who are inhabitants
of the Commonwealth. The Act does not
apply to Norfolk Island, which is a ter-
ritory outside the Commonwealth.” But it
does a bit more than that. Section 4 says:—
There shall be payable ... five pounds to every
woman who....gives birth to a child cither iti
Australia or on board a ship proceeding from one
port in the Commonwealth or a territory of itie
Commonwealth to another port in the Commonwealth
or a territory of the Commonwealth.
This clearly contemplates that women, even
if they are moving from one territory of the
Commonwealth to another territory of the
Commonwealth, shall be entitled to the allow-
ance. Certainly
a subsequent
section says
that the allow-
ance shall be
payable “only
to women who
are inhabitants
of the Common-
wealth or who
intend to settle
therein”; but
that is obviously
intended to bar
the visitor from
foreign parts.
The law may be
good or bad ; but
the women who
live in the re-
mote island ter-
HIS HOUR OF TRIUMPH.
The Bolshevik: “ Ha ! Ha! A World Peace, eh!”
ritories administered by the Commonwealth
—Papua and Norfolk Island—are better
entitled to the allowance than those who
huddle in the cities. And from Section 4,
entitled to this allowance than those who
bear children while passing by ship from one
territory to another, it was plainly the in-
tention of Parliament that they should have
it.
Arising out of the inquiry into the
Sydney Ferries there is an outcry against
what is called the capitalisation of reserves.
“If,” more than one witness has said —“if
this co. had been debarred by law from
capitalising reserves, the capital would not
have been inflated, and the public would
not be charged so much to pay dividends.”
It doesn’t follow at all. Reserves consist
of undivided profits. Some cos., being pru-
dently managed, don’t pay out all their
profits, but reserve them for contingencies
and to extend the business. Others pay out
all their profits, and when they want to
extend their business they issue more
capital. It is no more dishonest to
capitalise reserves which are composed of
undistributed profits than it is to call up
capital which consists of profit that has
been previously distributed. In fact, if the
law were to prevent the capitalising of
undivided profits, it would merely put a
premium on the distribution of profits up
to the hilt; and than that few things are
less advisable from the creditors’ and the
public point of view. To water capital by
issuing shares against assets which don’t
have any real existence is, of course,
another matter.
Sydney Daily Telegraph (6/8/T9), in
a special article reviewing the Canberra
Federal Capital site, g : ves prominence to
these headings:—
WHY PUMP THE WATER?
AREA STREWN WITH BUNGLES!
THE SEWAGE FAROE!
And the final summing up:—
Let the past bury its dead.
Presumably a misprint for “pest.”
From the very outset of the war there
were allegations of treachery in British
Government offices, and impotent public de-
mands for the service to be purged «t Ger-
man influence. Bonar Law disposed of the
matter the other week by announcing that
“the Government would not be justified in
breaking its contract with permanent civil
servants of enemy origin whose good conduct
and loyalty are un-
doubted.” Undoubted
by whom? A week
after Bonar Law had
talked in this old
Asquith strain the
Government suffered a
crushing defeat in
Lanarkshire: whereas
the Labor candidate
was beaten by 300 or
400 votes in December
last, he now defeated
the Coalition Liberal
candidate by 70Q0. A
Government that
breaks its pledges to
the people, but can’t
break its alleged con-
tracts with German
civil servants, may ex-
pect a long series of
kicks.
At his home, Macedon, where he had been
“ripening for the grave” for the few weeks
since he was stricken with paralysis, Henry
Hodges, Victoria’s senior puisne Judge,
passed out on Friday inorning. He was 30
years on the bench, which he reached when
he was 45. To his undoubted capacity he
united a dignity that became him well. In
temperament he was emotional, and often
he was irritable, but take him for all in
all he was a fine type. For some years
he was chancellor of the Anglican diocese
of Melb. Latterly he was an investigator
of spiritualism. His two sons served in the
war, and one of them, after winning the
M.C., died of pneumonia. His second wife,
who survives him, was formerly Mrs. Robert
Chirnside, of Carranballac station.
Australia, which is alleged by some
people to be incapable of making even its
own clothes-pegs, supplies the world, never-
theless, with all sorts of experts. The
greatest living authority on Indo-Afghan
and Indo-Persian frontier problems is an
Australian, F. Webb Ware, a son of the
late T. Webb Ware, formerly Under-
secretary to the Vic. Treasury. F. W.
Ware, born at Melbourne, entered the
British Army in 1887, was transferred to
the Indian Army in 1889 and seven years
later was passed to the Political Department
of the Indian Government. For close on
20 years he has, for the most part single-
handed, been engaged in the pacification and
administration of 000 miles of Indo-Afghan
and Indo-Persian frontier country, covering
an area of about 40,000 square' miles, in-
habited by a savage nomad population which
had never previously admitted restraint of
any kind. Lately this successful adminis-
trator has witnessed the completion of a
work which crowns his car cep—the Nushki
railway, connecting the Persian frontier
with the Indian railway system. The line,
which has played a very prominent part
in so speedily dealing with the recent
Afghan trouble and seems destined to play
a prominent part in all future Central
Asian questions, was both projected and
carried through by this Australian, in the
face of tremendous difficulties which took
10 years to overcome.
The Queensland Governor, in reading the
address at the opening of Parliament, found
in it a clause stating that his job was super-
fluous, and when his term was finished the
State would try to get along without an
Excellency. And his Ex., probably knowing
his own superfluousness, showed iio sign of
surprise. Possibly he wondered that he
hadn’t been found out earlier.
Availing himself of his option, Considine,
M.11.R, for Broken Ilill, lodged an appeal
against the sentence of three weeks’ imprison-
ment recorded against him by Kelley, P.M.,
for having, according to the evidence of the
steward of the Green Room Club and a Bill-
dim, used language reflecting on George V.
A Vic. County Court judge, sitting in
General Sessions will hear the appeal within
a month. Considine contends that the con-
viction was wrong in law, against evidence,
and that testimony was improperly admitted.
Pending the appeal Parliament is marking
time regarding the incident, and Considine
is attending the House.
The threatened breach between Great
Britain and the Argentine Republic may
strain both the Monroe doctrine and the
League of Nations. The quarrel is some-
thing about Hun ships, and it might not be
much of a quarrel but for the fact that the
Republic is in a state of chronic exaspera-
tion. ihe I alklands were annexed by Britain
because they happened to be vacant, just as
.some Power might annex Goat Island, in
bydney Harbor, because it wasn’t occupied
at the moment. The strenuous republic in-
timated years ago that it acquiesced as a
matter of necessity, but that it didn’t see
the justice of the arrangement. In fact, it
reserved the right to arise and cuss when
the chance came, just as France did over
Alsace-Lorraine.
From the Northern Gallery:—
The once sweetly-harmonious Labor Cabinet is
so no longer. The disturbance was inevitable.
Among the Ministers are four ambitious persons, all
hungry for more spotlight. Since Ryan returned
from the Cold Country there has been a good deal
of noise about the want of a Federal leader whose
platform presence and thundering voice and for-
midable prestige as a defier of Hughes would win
votes where Frank Tudor would fail. Ryan was the
man. But when approached on the point Ryan was as
evasive as usual, and repeated his old reply that
“there were 50 reasons why he should not enter
Federal politics, but the chief one was that he had
not been asked.” He was first offered Maranoa, and
Page at the time was said to be “willin’.” Then Fin-
layson’s seat was held out; but Ryan wasn’t eager,
as it was won last time by only about a dozen votes.
Still, the notion that Ryan ought to put on the
gloves with the terrific Billy has gripped the imagina-
tion of his admirers. He is, however, afraid of his
admirers’ plans collapsing. He wants guarantees.
To dash in and lose the tremendous struggle with
Hughes would be a calamity. And the loss of
prestige dreadful. That is why he hesitates. During
all this shuffling a bombshell exploded. Fihelly
(who is strongly running for the Bananaland Pre-
miership and bursting with ambition) announced his
intention of entering Federal politics. He will con-
test the Herbert plebiscite. This seat can be won.
Fihelly is a very shrewd manipulator of the pieces
on the board. His move steals limelight from Ryan,
and incidentally makes people wonder whether the
Premier is as strong as they thought. It may force
Ryan to go out and essay Federal fortunes. In that
case Fihelly would remain in the State Cabinet and
dash for the Premiership. Then there .is a further
feature of the turmoil. Speaker McCormack wants
a portfolio, and to move Cabinet he too is talking
Federal politics. He must be placated, and it is
quite certain that Mr. Speaker will get a portfolio
when Hardacre or Coyne goes to a seat on the Land
Court Bench in place of “Dr.” Ividston, whose time
is nearly up. Everything may be adjusted and the
Cabinet remain intact; but it will be interesting to
watch how the disorder will be quelled, particularly
the Fihelly-Ryan disturbance.
No more retired police-officers are to be
appointed J’s.P. in Victoria. The public
thinks that such beaks have an “unconscious
bias,” as the Lormer Inquiry Board called
it, towards the evidence of .John Hops, while
the J. Hops regard the former silver-caps as
irritating persons who think they are still
bosses of the beat.


CAPILLARINE
for
Quick
Results.'
A splendid growth of Hair can be produced
on the upper lip by the aid of CAPIL-
LARIES. Make up your mind to grow the
Moustache, and start using CAPILLARINE
right away. A preparation of unfailing
merit.
PRICE 10/6 JAR—POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEIM,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
THE TOUCH TELLS
Glide smoothly, never grate.
Artists, Draughtsmen, Engineers,
Architects, Drawing Students, Busi-
ness Men —these are just a few of the
classes who buy VENUS Pencils regu-
larly.
m
m
are not a luxury, they are a
necessity for the best work.
Made in 17 degrees, 6B to
9H, and 3 styles of Copying.
OF ALL STATIONERS AND ARTISTS’-
MATERIAL DEALERS THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALIA AND NEW Z ' '.LAND.
Legal Notice.
STATUTORY NOTICE TO NEXT
OF KIN.
RE MARY ANN READFORD or LATH EM.
late of Augathella, in the State of
Queensland, deceased.
NOTICE is hereby given that all persons
claiming to be next of kin of the
abovenamed MARY ANN READFORD or
LATHEM, late of Augathella, in the State
of Queensland, deceased, who died on or
about the Eleventh day of December, 3911,
a.d., at Augathella, in the said State, are
hereby required to forward proof of their
relationship to the Public Curator, Brisbane,
on or before the Fifth day of October. 3.939.
And that after the expiration of the last-men-
tioned date the Public Curator will proceed
to distribute the assets of the said deceased
amongst the parties entitled thereto, having
regard only to the claims of which he shall
then have had notice.
Dated this Thirtieth day of Julv. 3919.
R. ,T. S. BARNETT.
Official Solicitor to the Public Curator,
Treasury Buildings, Brisbane.
ĸ
The seamen’s strike developed into the
question whether Tom Walsh is or is not
above the law. If he is above the law then
he is the law, and all Parliaments ought to
be shut up and all Labor and other electoral
leagues dissolved.
G. M. Allard, the Sydney accountant who
has been inquiring into the whole question
of public service administration in N. S.
Wales, furnishes a report which endorses all
that The Bulletin has been saying for years
past about, the almost boundless extravagance
of Labor and “National” Governments alike.
Parliament has long since ceased to control
the expenditure. And the people have not
rebelled, simply because they have not had
to put their hands in their pockets to pay
the piper—that unpleasant duty has been
deferred for a few years by the demoralising
loan policy. Not until this country cuts out
the loan insanity is there a hope that things
will be much better.
The Federal Nationalists, who hurried the
Preferential Vote into law to wallop Labor
at a couple of by-elections, are not so sure
about its party virtues now. Cocky, no
longer compelled to support the “selected ’
Liberal as an alternative to Sosh. is busy
producing his own candidate, and already in
six out of eight Vic. electorates and in several
constituencies in other States he has nomi-
nated opposition to the sitting Nationalist.
The farmer may not have it all his own way,
but the 'success of Gibson, of Corangamite,
is not calculated to encourage Nationalist
optimism.
Some M’s.H.R. have strange ideas of
working for their salaries. The Federal
Parliament was shut so long that people
disremembered its existence. When it
opened it did nothing but debate the
Address in Reply, or move its own adjourn-
ment on a motion about the high price of
bacon-rind combined with the fact that
150,000 women are forcibly detained in con-
vents at Booligal. Then it was proposed
to adjourn till Hughes got back, and West
demanded an indefinite stoppage so that
members might “address their constituents
on the boiling questions of the day.” Dear
old West would travel 100 miles to address
an infant-school on almost any question,
boiled or frozen.
Evidence given at the inquest on a wharf
laborer who was knocked down by a
N.S.W. Government motor-car and killed
suggests that these cars are still put to im-
proper uses. The passenger in this case
was Mrs. W. A. Holman ; and, according to
the driver, she was on a shopping excursion
at the time. The matter of the use of cars
for other than public purposes was raised
two or three years ago, and it was under-
stood then that the scandal should stop. It
has not stopped. For its part The Bulletin
does not expect it to stop until the people
realise what the borrowing habit and the
party system have together produced. The
atmosphere of politics has become foetid.
Politicians, accustomed to squander public
money (especially borrowed money) to buy
support, have had their moral senses
blunted. And members who know they
should rebel against one tiling and another
remain silent because “it wouldn’t be good
for the party” to protest.
The politicians who are trying to save
their own skins by manoeuvring to defeat
the proportional-representation law in N. S.
Wales are trotting out some dreadful Vic.
experiences of “vote-splitting.” In Dundas
there were three candidates —Dobson (Lib.),
813; Smith (Lib.), 1668; Slater (Lab.),
2182. The machine politicians, who assume
that every Lib. is alike, and every Lab., say
that, there being 2481 Lib. votes against
the Laborman’s 2182, Smitlr should have
won. But as between Smith and Slater
182 of Dobson’s supporters preferred Slater,
the latter scored in the end 2364 against
Smith’s 2299. Incidentally Carmichael is
accused of being a traitor for putting up
men to “split the Liberal vote.” But if
some of the “Liberal” vote likes “Liberal-
ism” so little that it prefers some Labor
candidates to some Liberal ones, why should
it be debarred from expressing its preference?
When the Speck’s Parliament passed a
V.D. Act a couple of years ago it provided
for compulsory notification and treatment.
The treatment was to be given at wards and
clinics to be set up at the hospitals. The
hospitals merely remarked that they had no
room, or no time, or something; and nothing
has been done to force them to get to work.
A week or so back Shields, Mayor of Laun-
ceston. was invited to sign a warrant to
send a girl seven years of age, who had been
MORAL SUASION.
“The commercial men of Australia can do a great deal, if they will only tackle the problem of
profiteering from the community’s standpoint, to check this perpetual cry from the community for
Gove nment interference.”- —Trade and Customs Minister Massy Oreene at Chamber of Commerce
banquet.
Tiie Federal Government: “Gome, don't be a hog, old chap!”
infected, to the Hobart Gaol —the only place
in Tasmania w-liere there are any facilities
for treating these cases. To his credit he
refused to do it. Tasmania has enough to
be ashamed of without adding 'such a crime
to its list.
Millen was up at the confessional form
last week when Senator Barnes asked him
about the inquiry" re aliens in the Federal
service. Millen had to admit that the
Government’s own Commissioner had recom-
mended the dismissal (or “discontinuance of
services”) of 35 officers out of 754 whose
origin had been inquired into, but that the
Commissioner’s recommendations had been
over-ruled by the Government in 25 cases.
Or, rather, 10 Germans were “sacked” after-
failing to influence the authorities in their
favor, whilst the other 25 cases were “still
under consideration.”
Surprise followed the announcement by-
Lawson that Maj.-Gen. McCay, Brig.-Gen.
Williams and Captain R. C. Mills would
constitute the Vic. commission of inquiry
into profiteering. The Ministerial explanation
was that it was difficult to get ideal in-
vestigators, and that so-called experts and
students could be called as witnesses.
McCay, from whom Lawson took the Castle-
maine seat nearly 20 years ago, is a lawyer
and a Savings Bank commissioner. Wil-
liams, who was "Vic. Military Commandant
during the greater part of the war, was for-
merly editor of Ballarat Courier and tow-n
clerk of Ballarat. He has just been appoin-
ted a leader-writer on Melbourne Herald,
and the consent of the co. had to be obtained
before he would serve. Mills, formerly a
tutor of Queen’s College, went to London
seven years ago. gained a doctorship of
economics at London Uni., served for three
years in the war, and reached a captaincy in
the Royal Artillery. A couple of brainy
accountants and a judicial officer, with
authority to examine certified copies of
ineome-tax schedules, would probably do
much more effective work.
Nowadays George Reid’s old Tiger stalks
the land unchecked. The extent of recent
changes may be judged from the architecture
of the Lee Ministry’s platform in Tasmania.
A State-owned line of steamers, State in-
surance, extension of State water-power
scheme, and a State farm are only one or
two of the similar things with which the
Nationalist-Liberal-Conservatives (including
S’Elliott Lewis) propose to save the country.
A few years ago. when Senator Jack Earle,
then leading the Speck’s Labor party, advo-
cated such things, the present Ministry, would
have called him a Bolshevik if the word had
been then invented.
There is a rumor abroad that Hughes is
to be asked to accept the position of leader
of the V.F.U. party, in anticipation of the
inrush of farmer-members to both Federal
Houses at next elections. Stranger things
have happened, especially as the views of
Hughes concerning tariff matters are cloudy
enough to make him a suitable leader for
Henry Hayseed, who can’t be bothered think-
ing about other people’s industries. Nation-
alist pastures must nowadays look pretty
close-bitten to William, anyway, while the
prospects of the Farmers’ Union have a lush
and juicy look to lots of people. The leap
over tin- fence would be a mere trifle for a
practised performer like William.
The breaking-up of the Maoriland National
Ministry is going to be a touching affair.
Without actually falling on each other’s
necks, Ministers of opposite parties are dis-
covering that they have had very happy days
together, hoWgver the country has fared. To
be just, the National Government has done
some quite notable deeds. The trouble is
that the country has a list as long as two
yard-arms of things which have been left
undone; and when the sob-sister business
has been finished between parting Ministers
they will find a hard, unsympathetic country
regarding them frostily.
The election of T. H. Harrison as Par-
liamentary leader of the Westralian Country
party came as a surprise; probably no one
was more astonished than the member for
Avon himself. The explanation was that
with several Richmonds in the field various
members threw away on Harrison a vote
that had to be given to some one. Willmott
was the previous leader; but the party-
reckoned it was embarrassed by having its
chief in the Government. Sometimes it
wanted to call the Ministry a cow, and then
had suddenly to pull up and confess to being
at least a hoof of the animal. Harrison is
an estimable soul, but no incendiary.
Fihelly, Bananaland Minister of Rail-
ways, has got his eye on a big building in
Spring-street, Melbourne. If lie can get the
Labor nomination for Herbert he will prob-
ably sign for Bamford’s salary after the
next Federal elections.
Inside of six brief sittings the Speck’s
Parliament got through the swearing-in of
members, the election of a Speaker and
Chairman of Committees, the selection of a
Public Works Committee, the erection of a
new portfolio and the appointment of a
new Minister; passed a six months’ Supply
Bill, debated the Governor’s Speech and
returned a reply thereto, passed two Bills
through all stages in both Houses raising
members’ salary from £2OO to £3OO per
annum, and Ministerial salaries from £7OO
to £lOOO (Premier £1200) ; then, before
the public could recover its breath, scooted
into recess for the longest mid-sessional
adjournment on record—about eight weeks.
Tasmania a Land of Sleep ? Rubbish !
S.A. Parliament finds, after nearly 30
years of payment" of members, that the
salary—£2oo in Assembly and Leg. Council
alike—is not enough. It is stated that a
majority of the “lower” House,- at any rate,
are in favor of a prompt change to £3OO
without troubling to get the opinion of the
electors. Also a sixth Minister is talked of.
There are six already, as a matter of fact,
but one of them has a so-called honorary
office.
The people of Newcastle wanted a word
with Premier Holman about the congestion
of everything in Sydney, and Holman offered
to pass the time of day with them through
his railway-carriage window for 25 minutes
on his way north. Newcastle had about 25
columns of small print to tell him about
all the fakes which have been done —large
and small and medium fakes —to divert its
trade, industries and population to the big
city, so it declined. It wanted a Pence Con-
ference—not a glance at a beaming coun-
tenance through a carriage window.
Finlayson, M.l\, complains that the
League of Nations will develop into a “mere
defensive alliance amongst the Big Five,”
leaving other nations to form a rival league
and raise a new question of “balance of
power.” Well, the world should be able to
rub along peacefully with two great de-
fensive alliances. For nearly 50 years it
was threatened by a drilling, killing nation
which aimed at becoming the only Power on
earth, owing to the lack of defensive alliances
amongst the Big Five. The League of Na-
tions idea is not discredited by the arguments
of Finlayson, M.P., anyhow.
A suggestion has been made at Mildura
(Vic.) for the formation of a new inland
.State to comprise a great part of the Murray-
Darling basin. Peake of S. f \., the only
Premier who has spoken yet, doesn’t think
much of it; but, then, Peake doesn’t think
very much. The Murray-Darling basin, with
its various semi-navigable streams, is about
the only place in Australia where an inland
State seems to be definitely marked out by
Providence, unless some sanguine people
should build one on the upper Diamantina,
Thomson, Cooper, Bulloo and Barcoo, which
isn’t impossible. The proposed area is an
outlying nart or lost dog or neglected poor
relation of two or perhaps three States, and
the business of none. With a little, metro-
polis of its own devoted solely to its own
interests it would be the one «State which
wasn’t dominated by the importing and ship-
ping interests at a bloated seaport, and it
would probably never have any one over-
whelming city like the rest. Queensland be-
gan its career with 74d. (burgled on the first
night of freedom) and 25.000 inhabitants.
The new State should do better than that.
“Moreton”: A mystery hangs over the
Queensland Agency-General. Hunter was
“appointed” to replace Robinson when Labor
jumped into power in 1915. Labor sup-
porters expected the transfer to take place
immediately, but nothing was done, and
Hunter hung on to a Cabinet port, at home.
About 1917, following something published
in the New Witness, a move was expected :
but still nothing happened. After the 1918
elections, by way of camouflage Hunter was
kept out of the Cabinet in view of his early
departure for the Cold Country; but he was
given an Executive Council job, and Robin-
son is still Agent-General. Questions were re-
cently asked about it by the rank and file of
Ryan’s party, and as a further bluff a
plebiscite was held to fill the “vacant” seat
at Maranoa. A parson won the tussle, but
nothing continues to happen, and it looks
as though the rev. gent will have to stick to
the pulpit and the traybit. A very offensive
smell is beginning to rise.
In its anxiety to house the people the
British Government has taken a census of
the empty dwellings of London, which are
mostly big mouldering remnants of better
days. (The one-room ed mansion up four
flights of stairs in Hoxton, which used to
be named Hogsden, ,is never empty.) It is
proposed to convert these places into flats—
glorified tenement houses—to hold 100.000
people. So it is merely a matter of more
artistic overcrowding—of getting 100.000
more people into the same space. Most city
repair schemes end in that. The best idea is
to build Hew cities, but in a countrv where
there is one mammal with a soul to the acre
new city sites are hard to find.
JAPAN.
[For The Bulletin.]
I am the newer man.
Aside ai e thrown the kimono and fan ;
The arts I learned from China (ere the seas
Of other worlds brought Western strength
That beat me to my knees)
Are laid aside.
The power that bent me underneath its weight,
And left me gasping, “Wait....ah, wait!”
Is scattered wide.
But yesterday one whispered me alone:
“Speak, and I share with thee the throne
’Neath Eastern skies.”
And, being wise,
1 took his hand in mine....
Quickened in me my blood,
For then I knew the flood
Of this man’s veins would sweep me past myself,
And throw, me high
To look this saviour in the eye —
And challenge him !
11a ! I have sunk a white man’s straggled fleet —
Before me seen his broken army run!
Athwart my shores the stricken people bleat —
1 am the West, 1 am the East in one 1
I am the newer man.
Let all the West beware,
The South my purpose scan ;
For this 1 swear —
Swear by my Risen Sun—
Ere I be done,
Where prideful nations fall,
Over their funeral pall
I will be there!
N.S.W.
J. B.


PREPARATIONS.
“Japan* is buying largely of copper and other military supplies.”— Cable.


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
Registered
BHAS;
Brand.
Producers of Lead in the following forms—
Refined Lead, Corroding Lead, Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated),
Super-refined Lead, Chemical Lead.
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated), Spelter,
and the following Alloys and Metallic Products
Antimonial Lead. Linotype Metal, Litharge (Industrial and Assay),
Bearing Metals, Leaded Zinc Pigments, Blue Powder.
Purchasers on a Specially Favorable Tariff of Silicious Silver-L<eacl Ores, Slags, etc.,
containing Silver and Lead. Lead Drosses, Zinc Drosses^^^_^^_
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE —
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
LONDON OFFICE: PINNERS HALL, AUSTIN FRIARS, E.C. 2
A. .7. SMITH. London Secretary.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY—
R. N. KIRK (Agent).
ADELAIDE OFFICE: 62 BROOKMAN’S BUILDING, ADELAIDE—
A. W. LEWIS (Agent).
SMELTING WORKS. PORT PIRTE. S.A.
COKE WORKS. BELLAMBI. N-S.W.
NOBEL-CLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting; Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ENSURE, THE SAFETY of YOUR ESTATE
BY APPOINTING
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE Company (Ltd.)
Executor and Trustee under Your Will, Trustee of Your Marriage or other
Settlement, Attorney Under Power, or Agent.
Trust Funds under the Company’s control exceed £15,000,000.
MODERATE CHARGES. ECONOMICAL MANAGEMENT
UNDOUBTED SECURITY.
Write or call for Booklet, which explains the Company’s Methods & Charges.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Manager: R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE. Secretary: R.' L. MASSIE.
k
For its Peace Loan the Commonwealth
Government is asking 25 million pounds for
10 years, interest at 5 p.c. But the Treasury
is offering inducements which make the re-
turn somewhat better than 5 p.c. If the
amount applied for is fully-paid by Sept. 23
next, the subscriber receives his first full
half-year’s interest three mouths later and at
the rate of p.c. p.a. Thereafter 5 p.c. p.a.
will he paid half-yearly. In the case of
instalment subscribers, whose final payments
are due in March next, interest at 4| p.c.
will he paid on the full amount subscribed
in June next, 5 p.c. being handed out each
half thenceforth. Unfortunately the flota-
tion of this latest loan has come at an awk-
ward time. Merchandise stocks have been
pouring into the Commonwealth since the
beginning of the year, and few businesses
have much loose cash, while an unusually
large crowd have been forced to lean
on the banks. Further, the banks are
still carrying a heavy load of advances
made to instalment purchasers in previous
loans. However, the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment must have the money ; outstanding
war commitments have to he met, while
repatriation funds are urgently needed.
Already there has been a whisper that the
Government may enforce the compulsory
subscription clauses of the Act passed last
year; but despite the scarcity of uninvested
funds this will not be necessary unless the
better-off shirk their duty. Income derived
from interest on the loan will be liable to
Commonwealth tax, but free from State
tax; and people who want to make pro-
vision for paying their probate duties can
do it by buying into this loan—Peace bonds
will be accepted at par for this purpose.
' » * * *
Assurance and Thrift Association
Ltd. (Sydney):—
Life and House Purchase Branch.
Expenses
(including Added Assur-
-4 p.c. to ance
Mar., Revenue. Claims. Dividends). Funds. Funds.
1911.. £1,593 Nil £1323 £270 £135
Preliminary exes., £2 .. 133
1912.. 5,536 Nil 4467 1069 1,202
Preliminary exes., £l4 .. 1,188
1913.. 9,598 £598 5518 3482 4,670
1914.. 11,597 534 6355 4708 9,378
1915.. 11,702 988 5572 5142 14,520
1916.. 12,039 1821. 5379 4839 19,359
1917.. 13,021 1031 5756 6234 25,593
1918.. 14,321 2258 5868 6195 31,788
Transferred to contingencies reserve, £395 31,393
(Div. 5 p.c.)
1919.. 16,587 3041 5943 7603 38,996
The Assurance and Thrift is only in its
tenth year, but since from infancy it has
had the careful nursing of its founder, W.
It. Dovey, a capable actuary, as managing-
director, it is now one of the most robust of
the insurance youngsters. The Association
was formed primarily to push house-purchase
insurance, a side-line of life business which
has proved very successful elsewhere; but it
also goes after the regular lines and mis-
cellaneous stuff, including fire. The war
naturally interfered with operations; never-
theless, the table shows steady progress.
And for a young concern pushing an idea
new to the Commonwealth, costs have not
been excessive. Including dividends, dur-
ing the past five years £28,518 was spent to
get in £07,670 of income, the expense rate
for the period thus working out at 42 p.c.
Further, the management has been able to
pay its way each year while chasing new
business without having to build up the
familiar organisation or establishment ac-
count which so often swallows much of
shareholders’ capital in the younger con-
cerns.
Besides aiding policy-holders to acquire
their own homes, the Association is per-
forming a public service in another way. A
year ago, for instance, the management ac-
quired 77 acres near Newcastle, where it
proposed to establish a garden suburb. The
enterprise has proved very successful: only
22 acres remain to be disposed of, while from
contracts already signed up the management
can see its outlay comfortably protected.
The Association is apparently not pushing
general insurance; last year fire premiums
brought in £741 (net) and £344 was paid
in claims: accident and sickness business
produced £247 of net premiums and £32 was
paid out. But exes, swallowed the whole
of the surpluses and a few pounds besides.
Actuari ally the life and house-purchase
branch is in a healthy condition. Last year’s
valuation showed that accumulated funds
alone were more than sufficient to meet
estimated liabilities without calling for any
support from shareholders’ capital. In
fact, the Association was able to squeeze a
bonus of 1 p.c. for every year policies en-
titled to immediate participation had been
in force since the previous investigation, and
also add a few hundreds to its balance-
sheet reserves. Because of the house-pur-
chase operations the assets are, of course, not
of the gilt-edged variety displayed by some
other offices; of the total of £63,380 no less
than £45,376 represents loans on mortgage,
while £2581 is in property. But since the
co. is conservatively managed these invest-
ments can be regarded as safe as those of
most reputable building societies. If the
policy-holder wants further security behind
liis contract there is the comforting fact
that, while the life department funds are
adequate to meet estimated liabilities, there
is, besides, the support of £19,684 of capital
and reserves. In other words, there is that
amount of shareholders’ funds to meet any
slump in the assets representing policy-
holders’ interests.
Not only has the Assurance and Thrift
established a record for a young co. by keep-
ing its balance-sheet entirely free of hypo-
thetical assets, but it has been able to give
its shareholders a taste every year since its
establishment. Certainly the 4 p.c. was very
moderate, but last year the rate was lifted
a point, and for the current year 6 p.c. has
been declared. If the business expands and
prospers they should be on a good wicket;
but since the Commonwealth Government has
introduced its War Service Homes scheme
for the Diggers, and the State Government
is also providing easy facilities for build-
ing, the co.’s field may be narrowed. On
the other hand, the Government operations
may create a boom in home purchase which
will ultimately help the co.; but it is too
early yet to gauge the possibilities. Any-
how, for the young man who wants to pro-
tect his dependants against want with a
life policy, and at the same time wishes to
acquire his own home (which, in case of
death goes to his family unencumbered),
house-purchase insurance offers its own par-
ticular advantages.
* * * «
The Commercial Bank of Australia :
Dividends
Profits on
(less Loss Pref. Writ- Added
on Assets Shares. ten to Re- Re-
Trust). (3 p.c.) Off. serves, serves.
Deo., ’11..£61,082 £31,760 £28,000 £1,322 £4,878
June, ’12.. 65,109 31,760 30,000 f. , „, Q „
£2OOO voted to Provident Fund) 1,840 t> ’ 22 '
Dec., ’12.. 00,802 31,700 35,000 132 6,359
June, ’IS.. 68,076 31,760 35,000 1,316 7,675
Dec., ’13.. 66,776 31,760 35,000 15 7,690
(4 p.c.)
June, ’14.. 64.533 42,347 20,000 2,186 9,876
Dec., ’14.. 65,121 42.347 25,000 7,650
June, ’l5. . 44,273 42,347 1,926 9,576
Dec., ’15.. 64.157 42,347 20.000 1,810 11,386
June, ’16.. 68,369 42,347 25,000 (. _ q 408
£3OOO voted to Provident Fund) ’
Dec., ’16.. 70,323 42,347 30,000 7,384
June, ’17.. 64,370 42,347 20,000 2,023 9,407
Dec., ’l7. . 69,376 42,347 30,000 6,436
National Bank of Tas. purchased.
June, ’lB.. 76,397 42,347 30,000 4,050 10,486
Dec., ’lB.. 83,765 42,347 35,000 ( , , 1S n „ 04
£3OOO voted to Provident Fund J ’ ’
June, ’19.. 86,503 42,347 45,000 13,060
The Commercial of Australia was the first
bank to reconstruct after the ’nineties
smash. Yet, since the Q.N. has shaken
itself free of its old debts, the C.B. of A. is
the only concern which has not yet com-
pleted the unloading of its troubles. Old
deposits are represented by pref. capital
(£2,117,350) entitled to 4 p.c., of which 2
p.c. was cumulative to 1899 and 3 p.c.
cumulative since then. To fill some of the
holes nearly all the old capital was written
off; but this did not nearly meet the losses.
The busted securities were passed over to a
Special Assets co. to dispose of, and the
“estimated” deficiency still showing, as a
result of its operations is £542,660. In the
bank balance-sheet this amount is shown
nowadays as capital which has been tem-
porarily lost, so this table, which includes
the £542,660 deficiency, gives a better view
of happenings during recent years and a
truer view of the present position :
Pref. Writ- To
Dividend, ten Reduce
Profit. 3 p.c. Off. Deficit. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
Dec., 1911.. 61,991 31,760 5000 25,231 923,848
June, 1912 .. 65,879 31,760 5000 ( 27 119 596,729
Provident F and. . 2000 l
Dec., 1912.. 67,088 31,760 5000 30,328 866,401
June, 1913. . • 68,977 31,760 5000 32,217 834,184
Dec., 1913.. 67,144 31,760 5000 30,384 803,800
4 p.c.
June, 1914.. 80,062 42,347 5000 32,715 771,085
Dec., 1914.. 65,419 42,347 5000 18,072 753,013
June, 1915.. 44,273 42,347 1,926 751,087
Dec., 1915.. 64,160 42,347 5000 16,813 734,274
June, 1916.. 68,369 42,347 5000 7 , ttno „
Provident Fund .. 3000 f 18,022 ' 16,202
Dec., 1916.. 78,323 42,347 5000 30,976 685.276
June, 1917.. 64,370 42,347 5000 17,023 668,253
Dec., 1917.. 79,376 42,347 5000 32,029 636.224
•Tune, 1918.. 81,397 42,347 5000 34,050 602,174
Dec., 1918 83,765 42 347 5000 Ug 41g 568>756
Provident Fund . . 3000 )
June, 1919.. 86,503 42,347 5000 39,156 529,600
Ten years ago the deficit was £1,058,850,
and almost half of this amount has since
been made good out of disclosed profits.
The clean-up has of late been accelerated,
and the recent £30,000 per half formally
set aside for the reduction of the deficit has
for the past term been increased to £40,000.
Possibly the process could be still further
hastened, but no doubt manager Heron is
taking advantage of the position to build up
internal reserves, as manager Ralston did
in the Queensland National. If £40,000 of
profits can be set aside each half in future,
the C. B. of A. should see the end of its
troubles in about seven years.
The balance-sheet figures have expanded
considerably over the war period :
Liabilities.
June,’l4. June,’lB. June,T9.
Notes £21,053 £69,861 £71,517
Bills, etc 868,826 296,439 377,909
Free deposits . . . . 3,912,537 5,643,874 6,669,835
Deposits at interest . . 3,256,251 4,607,605 5,385,396
Old debts .. .. 56,601 Nil Nil
Assets.
Liquid assets .. .. 3,975,199 3,820,906 3,997,750
Advances . . . . 5,171,696 7,976,215 9,733,568
Old bank assets .. 32,000 Nil Nil
Premises .. .. 420,635 473,840 499,095
Over a year ago the little National of Tas-
mania was purchased, bringing in £722,170
of deposits and a good connection in the
Speck’s north and west. Compared with five
years ago the C. B. of A. now holds £4,886,443
more deposits. Of this increase the growth
of Government deposits represents £553,891,
so private deposits have been augmented by
a very substantial £4,332,000. Just at
present the management has an unusually
large crowd leaning on it; besides wheat and
war loan, the banks have lately been called
upon to help finance the abnormal stocks
which have flooded in on merchants since
the beginning of the year, while the shipping
strike has also increased the demand for
temporary accommodation. The result has
been that, though deposits have increased by
£4,886,443 in the five years, liquid assets
have expanded by only £22,551, while
advances have leaped by £4,561,872. At
present only 32 p.c. of all liabilities is held
liquid, compared with 49 p.c. in 1914. This
shrinkage, however, is not so disturbing- as
it looks, for 144 p.c. of all liabilities is
represented by wheat advanbes (Govt,
guaranteed) and war-loan accommodation,
a safe form of advance. Regarding both
these items as more or less liquid, as is
done by several banks, the proportion of
liabilities held within fairly easy reach is
464 p.c. From the depositors’ point of
view the position is thus strong, while, no
doubt, the management has been able to
earn an extra penny or two from the new
forms of investment afforded by the Govern-
ment operations.
iSooner or later the directors will have to
consider the question of raising additional
funds. Present capital is £2,213,009, in
£2,117,350 4 p.c. prefs. and £95,659 ordin-
aries ; at least, that will be the capital
position when the “deficiency” of £542,660
is made good out of profits, which will
probably take place within eight years. For
every £1 of its present “net capital” and
handful of reserves the management is hold-
ing about £7 ss. of the public’s money. That
does not give much room for expansion, but
every £40,000 of profit which is used each
half to reinstate capital means an additional
£640,000 of liabilities which can be comfort-
ably acquired each year. So if the C. B. of
A. can maintain its stride-—and it has been
gathering pace rapidly during recent years
—the management will probably hasten the
reinstatement of capital to secure a more
comfortable equilibrium between funds and
liabilities. But there are other considera-
tions affecting capital. Under their arrange-
ment, the prefs. can get no more than 4 p.c.
(£84,694) per annum. The day is not far
distant when the ordinaries will get a div.;
in fact, it was proposed to begin distribu-
tions just before the war. The matter,
amongst others, was contested in the courts,
and though the Board can, if it wishes, pay
the ords. a div., no distribution has since
been attempted. But when capital is fully
reinstated, if disclosed profits continue on
the _ same scale as at present, the balance
available each year after paying the pref.
dividend would represent almost 90 p.c. of
the ordinary capital. Not only will expan-
sion probably necessitate additional capital,
biit so that ordinaries can secure a greater
bite of the profits after their long wait and
without making the rate look excessive, they
will probably be invited to pay a call or
two. The market already sniffs the good
prospects, and though at present, owing to
the deficit, there is. actuallv not a penny of
ordinary capital visible in the business, about
235. is being offered for the 10s. shares.
* * * *
Adelaide Gas Co. is after another increase
of capital. The co. was formed in 1861.
with capital £30.000 and a right to double
it. This was exhausted by 1874, when it
opened its mouth wide and got a new Act
authorising £250,000 capital and the right
to borrow as much more. This satisfied the
demand up to 1912, when authorised capital
was doubled. But the new Adelaide suburbs
have caused such a demand that now the co.
does not like to put any limit to its powers,
and will simply ask the right “to add to the
capital from time to time as may be neces-
sary.” And all this in spite of the keen
competition of electric lighting. How much
Adelaide was depending on gas for cookery
.was hardly realised till the present coal
shortage caused harsh restrictions.
* * ‘ * *
Marchant’s Ltd., soft-drink manufac-
turers (Sydney). The deficit of £5032 with
which the co. began was made up of good-
will, £5300, and preliminary exes., £332 : —•
May, Net Profits. Dividends. To Reserves. Deficit.
£5,632
1911.. £7669 10 p.c. = £3851 .£3,818 1,814
I?
1912.. 5975 10 „„ 3851 2,124 310
1913.. 6232 10 ~ „ 3851 2,381 2,691
1914.. 7815 10 „ ~ 3851 3,964 6,655
Assets revalued and written up, £11,444 18,099
1915.. 7237 10 p.c. = 3851 3,386 . 21,485
Transferred to capital, £21,393.. .. 92
1916.. 5869 7 p.c. = 4193 1,676 1,768
1917.. 5979 7 „„ 4193 1,786 3,554
1918.. 4254 7 „ „ 4193 61 3,615
1919.. 5999 7 „„ 4193 1,806 5,421
There is money in soft drinks as well as in
the hard stuff, but increased costs have cut
into the profits from both brews lately. Dur-
ing the co.’s first five years the surpluses
available for shareholders were uncomfort-
ably large; £10,255, equal to half (he paid
capital, was distributed during that period,
and £15,073 still remained for reserves. No
indications were given of the amounts which
had meantime been written off for deprecia-
tion, but profits were handsome enough to
suggest that the management did not spare
the shears. Then, so that shareholders
could get a little more without making the
rate of div. look excessive, the co. decided to
call in valuators, write up assets, and make
a bonus-share distribution. Property and
plant (and, possibly, stocks) were written
up by £11,444, and by calling upon almost
the whole of the accumulated profit not re-
served against goodwill (£5300) capital, was
built up from £38,507 to £59,900 without
getting in a penny. So, though only 7 p.c.
divs. are being, handed out nowadays, the
return on the former capital is equal to
almost 11 p.c. Since the revaluation of
assets the balance-sheet figures have moved
this way:—
1915. 1919.
Liabilities .. .. .. £272 £853
Freeholds, buildings, etc. .. 26,530 27,210
Plant, etc. . . . . . . 13,644 9,597
Stocks.. .. .. .. 11,950 15,454
Cash, etc 11,992 18,125
The shrinkage in the book value of the plant,
etc., hints that hard writing-down is still
proceeding, and that the co. may be bottling
more surplus profit than the first table in-
dicates. Anyhow, in the four years the co.
has increased its surplus of liquid assets over
liabilities by £9056 after making any re-
newals or additions to plant.
* * » *
Australian fire policies carry a clause to
the effect that one of the risks not covered
“unless expressly included” is “loss or
damage occasioned by explosion,” except in
the case of explosions of gas used for
domestic or illumination purposes. Though
the cos. have thus not been legally liable, it
has been generally understood that reput-
able managements would not contest claims
arising from explosions. Subsequent to
one or two minor blow-ups in Sydney—
and that is the worst the city' has 'ex-
perienced—there has apparently been no
dispute about settling. About a year ago,
however, Sydney Chamber of Commerce
pressed the matter of securing protection
in black and white, so the associated cos.,
“to meet the requirements of the mercantile
community, gave very careful consideration
to the subject, and recognising the position
from the public’s point of view, while not
altogether desirous of doing so, made the
necessary arrangements to provide the in-
demnity.” “While not pressing too hard on
property-owners,” they have obliged by pro-
viding cover —at a minimum rate of 6d. p.c..
which, they add, “may be considered almost
a nominal charge.” The effect is far-reach-
ing. For instance, should an explosion occur
at Circular Quay and a York-street. ware-
house be set on fire by a flying splinter,,
the cos. would not be liable unless the!
warehouse had been specially covered against
explosion risks. The matter is one of
equity: why should a first-class risk be
penalised to the extent of at least 6d. p.c.
because somebody down a side lane is allowed
to continue handling explosive materials?
The weight should fall on the hazardous
business, which would then be induced to
make for an outlying district, where it
would not be jeopardising other people’s
property. Another reason given for the
grab is that a warship or oil-tanker may
explode, as at Halifax or Cardiff,'.and wipe
out a portion of the city. If the warships
are a danger to the city, the Naval authori-
ties might be informed that there, are other


Wolfram, Scheelite
and Molybdenite.
PRICES AT PRODUCING CENTRES:
MOLYBDENITE:
85 per cent, or over, 100/- for each
unit MOS 2.
WOLFRAM AND SCHEELITE.
65 per cent, or over, 52/6 for each
unit WO3.
Enquiries Invited relative to
LOWER GRADES of the above
Minerals.
DALGETY S CO. LTD.,
Commonwealth Government Agents.
ThePadfic Cable Board
BEST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN
CANADA. NEW ZEALAND, etc.
A ‘WEEIv-KND” rate is now available
from Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada, also for the United States of
£™‘L™ :a T ; XT _ to be Posted from Canada.
WEI-.k-END messages are accepted up to
midnight on Saturday for delivery in Great
Britain and Canada on the' following
Monday morning.
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC.”
Daily
Ordinary. Deferred. Week-end.
/ 9d. (minimum
\ 15/-, 20 words)
Canada
2/4
1/2
f 7d. (minimum
') 11/8,20 words)
U-S.A 2/4 to 2/8 1/2 to 2/4
/ 7d. (minimum
(11/8,20 words)
Week-end Service with the United Kingdom
and U.S.A. has been temporarily suspended.
Argentine, Brazil. Chili and ‘ Peru. West
Indies, Centra] America and other rates on
application. Cable forms, Deferred and
Week-end Regulations mav be untamed „c
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
77 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1346 (3 lines).
Queen s House, Queen St., Melbourne. Tel. 2588.
J. MILWARD. Manager in tbp Pacific.
. 77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. ' — "
A Universal Milling Machine of most up-to-date
design, with many special features, will prove of
great interest to the engineering community, and is
now available for inspection at the showrooms of
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd., 490-492
Kent Street, Sydney.— Advt.
The advantage of having battery charging current
on tap in the home garage is now within the reach
of every motorist. The G.E. Mercury Arc Battery
Charger makes any ordinary lighting circuit a source
of energy for starting, lighting, and ignition bat-
teries. Its cost is a mere trifle compared with the
convenience and economy of home charging. An
overnight boosting charge every few weeks will not
only increase the efliciency of a battery, but will
also lengthen the life of the plates. You should
get one of these outfits. Australian General Electric
Company, Wentworth Avenue, Sydney; and corner of
Queen and Little Collins Streets, Melbourne. — Advt.
Your live stock need pure drinking water just as
much as humans do. See they get it! Fall in
line with the big cattle salesmen—-leading water-
supply boards, town councils and stations —use
Aluminoferrie for purifying the water in your wells,
dams and tanks. Aluminoferrie quickly causes all
impurities to precipitate, leaving the water clear,
fresh and wholesome. Sold by storekeepers the
country over. Full particulars and prices free from
William Adams & Co. Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth.— Advt. [1
For grinding all classes of material in Ball Mills
and Tube Mills it is necessary to have a suitable
grinding medium. The mines in West Australia,
also numerous cement plants, are using balls of forged
tyre steel, and find that they give excellent results.
These balls may be obtained in various sizes from
the Austral Otis Engineering Co. of Melbourne, who
have put in a special plant for forging them, and
can give delivery of most sizes from stock. This
company also manufactures forged steel shoes and
dies for battery work. — Advt. [3
Pioneer Wood Pipe, the most satisfactory pipe to
instal. This letter comes from the Anchor Tin
Mine, Ltd., Lottah, dated June 23, 1914: “Dear
Sirs, —The wood pipes supplied by you in May.
1910, have proved satisfactory in every way. They
were easily handled, took little labor or skill to la.V,
developed no leaks, and show no sign of deteriora-
tion. Yours faithfully (Sgd.) James B. Lewis,
General Manager.” Send for illustrated catalogue.
The Australian Wood Pipe Company, Ltd. (H. 0.),
Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W. P.O. Add.:
Box 1570 G.P.0., Sydney.— Advt.
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street) Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink’s Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney ; tel. City 2723. — Advt.
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lovvest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.— Advt.
* * * *
Pastoralists and tank-sinkers having ideas of
mechanical appliances for making and cleaning out
station tanks, wool-washing and other station utili-
ties, should communicate with firm of manufactur-
ing engineers with view of patenting and manufac-
turing to mutual advantage. Highest bank refer-
ences given. Apply in first instance to Box 2547
G.P.0., Sydney.— Advt.
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Codlison & Co.. 453 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assa
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowe'
ir a A rS ’ „£ all ° r write for Particulars. H. B. Selbv &Co
Ltd., 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bon
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street, Melb.—Adv
. .Palmer, 8.E., Fel. Chem. Soc., etc., consult
mg _ engineer, valuing, organising, technical advice
mining, metallurgy, flotation and selective flotatior
piocesses, Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 Piti
Street, Cables and Telegrams: “Remlap
eareßqwvto
BOttlin.
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Loss of Profits
Insure in
T 1“ 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital .. £250,000
Subscribed Capital .. 194,235
Paid-up Capital .. 96,497
Income (Cross) 1918 .. 457,852
Established, 1910.
AGENTS WANTED.
Blanches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. 11. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
g a 'Will or Settlement appoint The
UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Your EXECUTOR or TRUSTEE.
The only Trustee Company with branches
in more than one State.
NEW SOUTH WALES. VICTORIA.
QUEENSLAND.
Sydney Office. 48 Young Street.
. G. Watson, Assistant Manager.
Directors: Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackjjllar,
K.C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman) : Hon James
Ashton. M.L.C.; Hon. H. Y. BnAnno.v,
M.L.C. : F. B. S. Falkiner, M.H.R., James
Kidd :W. H. Mackay, R. M. Pitt and
Dcncan Sinclair.
J. Mair, Manager.
A. Victor Leggo & Co.
Melbourne -Sydney—Brisbane.
Manufacturers Metallurgists Merchants.
Exporters and Importers.
Specialties: INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS, INDUSTRIAL MINERALS,
ORES, METALS AND RAW MATERIALS.
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Other Goods.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
anchorages in Sydney further removed from
the city’s doorstep than Farm Cove. Inci-
dentally, it will be very interesting to see
what the cos. will do with the additional
premiums received. Logically, every penny
so collected should be set aside in the re-
serves for unexpired risks.
* * * *
The plant at the Broken Hill South looked
an appalling wreck the morning after the
fire had gone through it; but a couple of
hundred men were put on, and soon the
estimates both of the loss and the time re-
quired to get the mine running again were
modified. Still, the damage done will not
be covered by less than £ SO,000; and the co.
will have luck if production is resumed—at
any rate, on the old scale—inside eight
months. It may be longer; much depends
on the machinery-makers. Of course, the
outbreak of the lire is a mystery. The South
was the only mine picketed. Others were
not attempting to do any work (they are in
no hurry while the seamen’s strike is on) ;
but about 300 were at work at the South —
really to limit the distress, for the work they
were doing was not urgent. The South’s
fire_ brigade is the best on the line; and
.during the strike there was a full staff of
watchmen. Their report is that the whole
place was in a blaze as soon as the first
flame was seen ; and that arid the fact that
there were three previous outbreaks at this
mine and one at least at the Zinc Corpora-
tion’s works are suspicious circumstances.
* * * *
Gundagai Big Reef (N.S.W.) prospectus
is an elaborate document, which in no way
justifies the tall talk that has been heard
<>f late in Sydney mining circles. The ven-
dors seem to have failed to grasp the sig-
nificance of E. W. Bonwick’s report and
recommendations. That report is candor
itself in some respects:—
Further operations at depth are necessary before
any final statement under this head (metallurgy of
the ore-body) can be made.... This is a complex
ore, and whatever changes may occur as further depth
is attained they will certainly not be in the direction
of simplicity.... Now is not the time to consider
types of plant Before such a plant be erected
there must be ample justification in the form of ore
reserves... .Nothing less than complete exploration
at 100 feet, together with systematic exploration by
vertical workings at regular intervals to 200 feet,
should be considered sufficient.
Then follows a statement of the exploratory
work which is recommended, and it is added
that not less than £ll,OOO should be avail-
able for this work. As to whether or not
such expenditure is justified, Bonwick has
“no hesitation in answering in the affirma-
tive.” All of this is sound, practical com-
monsense. On the facts submitted, no one
can question that it is a genuine prospecting
proposition, and if it were to be treated as
such it would command commendation. But
the promoters are not satisfied to have an
option syndicate to subscribe the £ll,OOO
required to decide whether or not there is
the “big” mine of their imagination. They
must have a co. with a capital of £lOO,OOO
in 200,000 shares of 10s. each, of which
40,000 are to be held in reserve, 80,000 to
be issued as contributing at 35., 80,000 fully
paid to vendors, less 20,000 to underwriters.
This means that the buyers are giving a
£30,000 interest in return for the right to
spend £ll,OOO to prove whether or not there
is a mine. Needless to add “It is intended
to apply in due course to the Stock Ex-
change to have the co. placed on the official
list.” It is stated that the whole of the
contributing shares have been underwritten,
so “the successful flotation of the co. is as-
sured.”
The weakest point in the expert reports is
the slurring over of the fact that the Big Reef
concentrates are almost wholly arsenical.
One gentleman whose name appears in the
prospectus ought, from his experience, to be
able to testify as to,the erratic gold-bearing
contents of the arsenical ores of the Gun-
dagai-Adelong district. The Big Reef pos-
sesses one of the finest lines in N. S. Wales,
and from work already done—the show has
been costeened every 15ft. or so —The Bul-
letin does not doubt the worth of the pro-
perty down to 60ft. or 70ft. Good extraction
and good values seem assured to that depth;
below that are the sulphides and the be-
ginning of separation difficulties. The Lance-
field, on the Mount Margaret field (W.A.),
was a similar show, and the morgue records
tell what happened there. Thousands upon
thousands of pounds were spent upon plant
to treat the refractory ore without success.
Summed up, there are possibilities in Big
Reef, but a co. with £BO,OOO issued capital
wants something more in sight than mere
possibilities.
A paragraph in the Gundagai Big Reef
prospectus;—
The first prospectors sank No. 1 shaft to nearly
100 ft., and from the sinking of this working 900
tons ore were obtained, which were milled at a small
obsolete battery erected close to the shaft for a
return of 20dwt. per ton. Their tailings assayed
Bdwt. per ton, whilst 160 tons of ore left at the
.shaft returned Ifildwt. per ton at a distant battery.
The Big Reef crowd might elaborate this
story by explaining why a mine from which
900 tons of ore could be won from 100 ft. of
sinking, worth 20dwt. per ton by amalgama-
tion, with a battery on the ground, was
abandoned at a time when labor was cheap
and efficient. And who was the amazing
person who left tons of 16Mwt. stone lying
on the surface when the battery was shifted V
* * * *
Malaya Tin Corporation, a Sydney con-
cern directed by Chas. H. Kerry, Thos. 11.
Martyn and Geo. Blakemore, has been enter-
taining the d.inkum Bolshie in its back yard,
though, fortunately for the directors, the
back yard is a long way from the Board-
room. The Corporation holds concessions
in Eastern Siberia, and the Bolshies last
year swooped down on the property, looted
the food supplies, stores, etc., and completed
the job by cancelling the co.’s holding. How-
ever, when Admiral Koltchak established his
new Government and restored something
like order, the co. secured its rights again.
Prospecting has been quite impossible,
though, so the staff has been “rendering
valuable assistance in supervising the distri-
bution of food. This work they are still
engaged in.” Since the Bolshie disappeared
Siberian mining properties have come into
favor again, and Malaya Tin Corporation
lias hooked an American crowd to take an
option over its Severnich property. Details
have not yet been made available, but the
directors hope to be able to let shareholders
into the secret at the meeting. The Bolshie
trouble in Siberia was a mild affair com-
pared with tin! calamity which has fallen
on the co. in Siam. After having done con-
siderable boring the Langsuan property has
been wrested from the co. by a little Siamese
claimant, and though an appeal is pending
the directors are not at all cheerful. Mean-
time they have been chasing tin outside the
unappreciative Langsuan district, and it is
now given out that “from values disclosed
by scout-boring it would seem that a pay-
able area has been located.” The only ray
sunshine for the co. was the performance
ot Ratrut, m which it has a £15,441 holding,
lins dredging concern put £3200 in divs.
into the Corporation’s pockets, and actually
permitted it to show a net profit of £BBB for
the year.
Mount Hope (N.S.W.) is to resume in
a lew days. The co. closed down towards
the end of last year on account of a short-
age of water, and then decided to erect a
larger plant. But the sky became very over-
cast tor copper producers, though this did
not worry the solid business people behind
the show to any extent. Fresh capital was
got m, and now excavation work for the
new machinery is well under way. General-
manager Audley Smith has had the mine
equipment overhauled and supplemented,
and has started baling with a view to re-
suming the sinking of the main shaft. At
the same time he intends to recommence the
treatment of surface dumps. The sight of
lull dams is cheering in these times of
drought, particularly in the Far West, and
enough boiler water is available for six
months at least.
Ardlethan tinfield (N.S.W.) shows signs
of revival White Crystal is running three
sums, and the management reckons on a
comfortable weekly profit, with tin at high
approval is being sought
of the Treasury to float off Stackpool’s lease.
Having learned a lesson from the prolonged
drought, Carpathia has let a contract to
bore for sub-artesian water. The New Ven-
ture has meanwhile been called to the
and is providing Carpathia with
io'UO gallons _a week; so dry crushing will
be possible with the new ball mill. A weekly
return of six to seven tons concentrates is
aimed at. Only crushed and roasted ore is
I? Barmedman after this week, and
the Sydney Export Co. is to take a few
parcels. The arrangement will probably
mean that picked ore will go through the
rolls, instead of the run-of-the-mirie. as re-
commended by many experts. The old Wild
Cherry, lately the New Venture, has been
reconstructed and has assumed the name of
the Cherry. The reconstruction also gives a
further calling power of Is. 6d. per
share. Incidentally T. W. Horton, better
known as an authority on Malayan tin-
dredgmg, went up to have a look at the
field the other day, and it would be in-
teresting to know what he thinks of it.
* * * *
Hung up for want of water at the Els-
inore, near Emmaville (N.S.W.), ,T Sloane
set to work to test some of the lode forma-
tions opened to view during sluicing. Now
he recounts that at 50ft. he got on to pay-
able material. r lhe news stirred Mackay’s
office, and orders went out to have a new
vertical shaft sunk to find out what is there.
Meanwhile No. 1 plant alone is plugging
™ Ol T g ,. 1:111 J;? 011 ? 11 fain falls to start‘ the
Mclntyre River and allow the other two
dredges to get up steam. If that could be
done costs would come well below the pre-
sent average ofl2Ad. per cubic yard to treat
lb. ground. lhe net result of the half's
operations, after making a clip for deprecia-
tion of piant equivalent to 5 p.c. p.a., was
a loss of £l4B. Though the co. was leaning
on tlie bank for £460 and owed £490 besides
at June 30, the position was easy. Against
these debts of £950 there was tin ore worth
£lO6O, and other more or less liquid assets
amounting to £SSS.
Edna May reserves are running out faster
than was expected, and an intrusion of
greenstone in the rich stopes south threatens
to cut off a slab of ore at the bottom level.
In that event it won’t be long before a
shift will have to be made to hunt up stuff
to keep the stamps rattling. Stuckey, next
door in the Deeps, is filling up every crack
and cranny to prevent the water oozing
through when the pumps stop in the Edna.
The cash for the Is. div. which Edna has
shot out must have come in part from the
fat cheque the Board got as its share of
the sales of gold in Asia. Central also raked
in a fair wad from the same quarter; so a
yarn was spun that it might shell out ,Is.
also, but the distribution is slow in mat'ur-
ing. This may be because ore reserves in
the New reef section are very low, so that
Giblin will be thrown on to the Middle and
Main reef stone coming over the boundary
from the Consolidated. Supplies there are
not large, but are good, and will be of use
to sweeten up anything scraped up from
other parts of the mine. Cash may be
wanted, too, to deal with the water that will
flow into the Central—unless, of course,
Giblin can block it back with cement or
the old deep-lead device of bulkhead doors.
Westonia thinks he will have to sport a
pump or two ; but Collins-street is not worry-
ing;
From a Westonia correspondent:—
There has been Some excitement at the 480 ft.
joint level of Edna May and Deeps. Below this
level, in Edna May ground, there is a small block
of fair-grade ore. From Deeps’ standpoint it was
so important that this block should not be extracted
that it offered to pay for surveying and assaying
and buy it at the full value of its gold content at
£4 per oz. This appeared a fair offer, but it was
not accepted, Edna May preferring to incur the
cost of mining and treating the ore, and incidentally
putting Deeps to the expense of erecting a concrete
■ barrier to preserve its workings in the event of
water being permitted to rise in Edna May. In
view of the non-acceptance of Deeps’ offer it appears
that Edna May, at the end of its career, desires
to incommode its neighbor as far as possible. So
soon as Edna May commenced extracting ore under
480 ft. Deeps obtained an injunction preventing fur-
ther work pending a survey of the boundary. The
survey has since been completed, and the injunction
raised. Meanwhile Deeps has placed much concrete
in position, and to enable it to do this was probably
all the co. required the injunction for, as it is question-
able whether the survey of the boundary was really
ever seriously in doubt. Edna May is likely to exhaust
its payable ore reserves during this month, and then
will follow a stoppage of the pumps, augmenting the
inflow of water in Deeps, Central and Consolidated.
Deeps is not likely to be badly affected, but the out-
look for the other two cos. is not So promising.
* * » *
Still another howl has been raised in West-
ralia at the indifference shown for the
interests of local scrip-holders by mining
cos. which are controlled in other States.
This time the Edna May and the Consoli-
dated are placed in the dock. Both cos.
sent word across in a round-about way of
their intention to appeal against the
Warden’s decision in the drainage case, and
then wires were received by Perth share-
brokers that they had buried the hatchet and
embraced one another. No official announce-
ment of this reconciliation was made locally,
and it was not until later, when the Adelaide
and Melbourne papers containing particulars
of the settlement arrived at, that anything
definite was known. Steps are being taken
to ask Parliament to put an end to this
sort of thing.
* * * *
Iron King, Associated Northern’s latest
option at Norseman (W.A.), has just
crushed 54 tons for an average yield over
the plates of 155., which, judging from past
returns, is about its average. Like other
Westralian gold-mines which the Northern
has either turned down or acquired in the
past, the Iron King has been under option
several times. The Mararoa had a chance of
taking it, and so had the late lamented
Hampton Uruguay, while Melbourne nibbled
at it more than once. But either the price
was too high or values too low, and no
business was done. The Northern would
also have liked an option on the adjacent
Bed, White and Blue, but the owners’ terms
were more than the co. could stand.
* * * *
Apart from Constellation, which is supply-
ing 60s. stone, and Unity, with 455. ore, only
Hercules', Ironbark and Koch’s got
into the 205.-and-aver class at Bendigo
Amalgamated last month. Carlisle is
down to 175., and it is the big
producer. How Constellation lias helped
can be shown from the fact that since the
present shoot was got in the South Moon
reef, 9378 tons have given 78S8oz. gold.
Taking working costs at 15s. per ton, which
ought to be sufficient, profits from about
3f>oft. of this reef have brought in £25,000.
All this has had to go into the hunt after
another run of good stone. South in the
Golden Pyke the end of the South Moon
shoot has been got, but there is plenty of
room for the gold to continue to the north,
as there is 85Uft. of untested ground await-
ing the pick. The best outside prospect is
being got at the Unity, on the extension of
the Carlisle spurs, so the diamond drill is
out to try the country.
(Continued on page 22.)


THE PIED PIPER.


Mr. J. $. McCullagh, Lecturer on Theology, Temperance and Philosophy in America,
New Zealand and Australia, considers Clements Tonic a really fine medicine.
He is Managing Director, Western Pacific Feature Films Ltd., 254 Pitt Street, Sydney. He writes:
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
254 Pitt Street,
Sydney, Australia.
For the past two years my professional duties were associated with
strenuous public services which were so overtaxing that, as time Avent
on, I found my physical and mental applications somewhat below the
normal order.
This serious infringement of my health, I discovered, demanded my
immediate consideration, and I invested in a good tonic to tone up my
system.
All Chemists sell it in Australia and New Zealando
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle, N.S.W.
I commenced taking Clements Tonic, on a friend’s recommendation,
and, after taking a few bottles, found my health completely restored.
I shall always keep a bottle on hand in future. It is a really fine
medicine.
Yours faithfully,
(Signed) J. S. McCULLAGH.
The best advice you can follow is to have this medicine in your home for
general use. It is as good for children as for grown-ups. It gives good appetite,
enriches the blood, soothes and strengthens the nerves, aids digestion, and generally
strengthens the system. It makes life worth living.
Get it to=day and health at the same time.
ķ
“Veritas”: “Dai'tford’s” account of the
shelling of the 14th Battalion while in billets
at Allonville 24/7/T9) reminds me of
a similar attack after “lights out.” During
the uncertain days of April, when the Dig-
gers were barring the way to Amiens, we
had come out for a brief spell and brush-
up in the village of Boves after a fairly
rough spin at Hangard Wood. Boves, at
that time but a few miles from the line,
contained only a very few civilians. The
vast majority had fled at short notice, leav-
ing everything. We were in clover—real
beds; real crockery and china; real food.
We turned in that night wearing night-
dresses and other mysterious articles of
feniinine attire, only to be wakened about
midnight by the whine and crash of five-
nines. Only stopping to get our gas-masks
and tin lids, we made a rush for the open
fields over the river, for it was. suicide to
remain. Evidently the rest of the battalion
had fallen into the lap of luxury, for stream-
ing across the fields under the moon were
figures clad in only such garments as a mar-
ried man should see. If Jerry could have
seen them he would have Sworn it was a
charge of the Lingerie Lancers. Funny as
it was it cost us 18 good men.
# * * *
“Veva B.”: Among the piles of bricks
that was once the village of Harbonnieres
was a broken-down wreck of a cab, with
tlm chalked on it: “Tours around the beau-
titul village of Harbonnieres, 2s. 6d.: with
blinds down, ss.”—-evidently the work of
some naughty Digger just, back from Paree
u *
“Comedy King”: Blot was the hardest
swearer on Monaro. Because of his talents,
rather than in spite of them, he was made a
*+lu’ a i i Public appearance was
at the local court. Blot took his seat on
the bench, stretched his legs,
wiped his glasses, and called
for the first case. “John
Brown, y’Worship. Using
bad language in a public
place.” Blot listened to the
evidence, adjusted his glasses,
and gazed sternly at the
offender. “Fined £lO or six
months.” The sergeant in-
terposed quickly, “No, no,
Mr. Blot! That is too much !
He is a first offender and of
good character otherwise.”
Blot was obliging and made
it £5 or three months. Again
the sergeant interceded and
urged a lighter sentence, when of a sudden
the bottom fell out of Blot’s patience. “Oh,
him!” he said. “Let the go!”
About the Order of Merit:—
Lloyd George has been invested with the O.M.
More and more it becomes the only gaud worth hav-
ing-barring, of course, the V.C. The Generals and
their staffs have prostituted the military awards
which were originally intended to. signify valor, but
which, in this war, have come to be more significant
of a delicate blend of caution and toadyism. And
Ministers and party-whips have destroyed whatever
honor there was in an hereditary title. But the
O.M. remains, so far, unpolluted. There are only
a couple of dozen members, but they number such
great men as Bryce, Thomas Hardy, Balfour, Fisher,
French and Jellicoe. In the last few months Haig,
Beatty and Lloyd George have been added to the
roll. The ribbon is “Garter blue and crimson,” but
except in this matter of the shade of blue, the Order
in no wise resembles the Garter, which has practi-
cally never been given to a great servant of the
nation, as such. A possible exception was Edward
Grey, Foreign Minister when the war began; and
now —although blind —mentioned as the next British
Minister at Washington.
A fisherman appeared the other day in
the Adelaide local court to answer a judg-
ment summons. He stated that he had been
away in a hired boat for about a month,
and for that time had netted £B. His
Honor saw his opportunity ; “You made £B—
then, haven’t you paid something off
this claim?” The fisherman was ready.
“Well, it’s like this. I’ve got nine kids to
keep, y’Honor, and if you saw ’em sitting
round the table you’d think you were in a
restyrong!”
An uncomfortable couple of hours was
spent by the Lawson team in the Vic. As-
sembly when Hogan launched the charge
that Masonic and social influence had in-
duced the Law Ministers or one of them
to allow charges of fraud and forgery in
relation to charity trust money to be with-
drawn against John- Blacker, formerly pre-
sident of Mornington shire, so that he
escaped with a £25 fine for larceny as a
bailee. Hogan quoted from the official file
to show that an officer of the Auditor-
General’s Department and Detective Piggott
had ascertained that receipts had been mani-
pulated. and that Macindoe, Crown Prose-
cutor, had recommended trial on major
charges. Macihdoe’s advice was taken, but
subsequently the big indictment was with-
drawn and the minor offence substituted. As
soon as Lawson announced that he person-
ally had had nothing to do with the case,
TIIE EXPLANATION.
“Think how few married people live happily
together."
“Think how seldom they live together,
though.”
and had to rely for his explanation on a
memorandum from Anderson, of the Crown
Law Department, interest evaporated to a
large extent. Later he was able to assert
that the only representation made was ‘by
Aikman, M.L.C., to Robinson, Solicitor-
General, to expedite the trial, as Blacker’s
wife was frantic over the matter. Advised
by Anderson, who was formerly a P.M., that
there was not much chance of potting
Blacker before a jury on the graver charges,
Robinson consented to go for larceny as a
bailee if Blacker pleaded guilty. Lawson
added that Blacker had been struck off the
list of magistrates, had lost his seat as
councillor, and was going out of his busi-
ness. The Ministry pulled through, but
there was a “don’t-do-it-again” tone in the
remarks of the House.
“Murkah”: The restless Yank recently
perfected a method of conducting simultane-
ously five independent con-
versations over a single
wire, using it also as a tele-
graph line to carry 40 mes-
sages. Obviously this is of
great interest to Australia,
with its important telegraph
centres spaced by hundreds
of miles. But there was no
need for Webster to despatch
a man to U.S.A. to investi-
gate. . Like a lot of other
wonderful inventions, the
finished machine is a com-
paratively simple affair. A
young fellow in Webster’s
Department lately showed
me some blue-print diagrams
he had got from a Yankee
telephone engineer, and ex-
plained precisely how the
miracle worked. In these
days of blue-print diagrams
and clearly-written text-
books there is no need to go
thousands of miles to in-
vestigate machinery of any
kind. From a blue-print and an audion-bulb a
corporal at Sydney Radio (Pennant Hills)
wired the receiver on which Nauen (Ger-
many) was first heard in Australia —a
world’s record.
* * * *
“Barbarossa”: Devastated wattle-trees re-
veal the trail of the despoilers who wrought
such havoc within a 100-mile radius of Syd-
ney the day before and on Wattle Day itself.
The founders »f the festival surely never in-
tended that a wholesale raid should mark
the Ist of August. The fundamental idea,
as I understand it, was the marking of each
anniversary by the planting of fresh trees,
thus making our beautiful national flower
more and more plentiful. But if the present
rate of devastation continues, in about 20
years’ time there will be scarcely a beautiful
golden-blossomed tree left. Popularity is a
curse where our native beauties are con-
cerned. Before Lady Carrington praised the
beauties of the dainty and modest flannel-
flower nobody thought much of it. Now
bunches of the exquisite little native blooms
are ruthlessly torn up, root and all. by so-
called flower-lovers; and the bush beauties
are disappearing from all the easy-to-be-got-
at haunts. Will somebody stop the Huns
before all our wattle-trees are scarred and
ruined beyond redemption? Will somebody
start preaching that the purpose of Wattle
Day is to plant and not to plunder?
* * * »
“Jake B.”: This is merely, to prove that
the Staff was the very cream of the in-
telligence of our army. We had two
divisions in a rather quiet part of
the line. Each division had to
forward twice daily to Corps H.Q.
a report on the state of affairs on
its particular front. These re-
ports would be consolidated at
Corps and then forwarded on to
Army H.Q. In view of the possi-
bility of gas attacks, they were
required to state the direction of
the wind, and sometimes when the
breeze was very light and difficult
to determine, conflicting reports
would reach
Corps. Oh one of
these occasions
A Division de-
clared it was
N.E., while B
Division swore
it was N.W. The
clerk who did
the consolidat-
ing decided to
consult the staff-
officer on duty
as to which one he should adopt. “Why,
you fool, put ’em both in ! Don’t you know
the line takes a sharp bend here 7”
* * * *
“0.14.8.” : A Digger just home from Pales-
tine in time for the christening of his
youngest boy had brought a rum-flask of
river Jordan water. When he guessed the
proper moment had arrived he slid the flask
from his pocket and offered it to the clergy-
man. The parson, himself a jovial padre,
blushed with embarrassment, but whispered
behind his hand, “Not now, Digger! Not
now- —afterwards, perhaps !”
* # * *
There being a bishop’s gaiters vacant at
Bendigo (Vic.), and Bendigo being a
desirable place, an English cleric is to be
imported. In England the Established
Church is a branch of the nobility and a
brother of the civil service. The man • who
bishes has, generally, a seat in the House of
Lords, and always an assured income and a
“palace.” He may not be able to preach.
He may not be much of a pastor or shep-
herd, nor amount to anything as a help to
the poor. In fact, he is a figurehead, and
may be anything from a Pharisee to a
frisky ornament. The Australian bishop, on
the other hand, is the head of a little
BREAKING IT BY DEGREES.
"Did you tell your father that I teas a black-
and-white artist?”
“No; I told him about your drinking and
gambling, but I couldn't tell him every-
thing at once!"
religious republic and is expected to justify
his existence. He is supposed to derive his
patent of nobility from the people below,
not from the patron above. Nevertheless
bishops are imported from the place where
things are different, because the Australian
parson doesn’t want to see his brother
elevated above him ; and the Church and its
progress are sacrificed by bringing in
strangers who know nothing of the country
or the conditions or the people, and- have
only their ignorance and aloofness to
recommend them.
A WOMAN OF LEBANON.
[Foil The Bulletin.]
Up terraced hills, against the breeze,
Joy lured me. forth to ride.
The birds sang matchless rhapsodies,
And red roofs shimmered through the trees
That tossed thfir plumes with pride.
.The highway, white and wide and hard,
Gave echo to my tread.
No hostile-seeming shadow marred
The grassy uplands, daisy-starred,
Where nodding poppies bled.
Above me blazed the mountain-snow,
The prattling torrents rolled •
Agog to swell the stately flow
Of rivers, winding far below
Across the plains of gold.
I hummed at times a haunting tune
Against the fragrant breeze;
And where cool shadows stretched a-swoon .
I halted in the languid noon
Beneath the cedar-trees.
Then out upon the gleaming track
I heard the tap of feet —•
A graceful woman, robed in black,
Let fall the burden from her back
Where leaves shut out the heat.
She nestled with a mournful sigh
Within the spangled shade.
Grief-moisture swam in either eye
So dark and clear and virgin-shy;
Her robe was travel-frayed.
THE ECONOMIST.
“Well, Eve made arrangements for our
divorce."
“ Divorce? Oh, George, what have I done?"
“Done? Nothing! But what witWA. the
high price of petrol and tyres and'the
upkeep of my cars and racehorses,; and
the expense of the Club, I find it im-
possible to support a wife.”
“Why mourn on such a joyous day?”
I meekly asked her then.
“While sunspots on the shadows play,
Go seek that love which casts away
The grief of maids and men.”
“For me all thought of love are dead,’
She answered woefully.
“I search to gain a dole of bread
While famine dogs my every tread
From fruitless tree to tree.
“Ah, well your heart may throb with life!
Your young blood wildly leap!
You bared the blade and tasted strife
Where death and fell disease were rife,
And life was brutish cheap.
“Grief smote you only in the night,
To vanish with the dawn
As you arose to wage the fight,
When limpid streaks of rosy light
Across the east were drawn.
“You raised the victor’s triumph cry—
Your conquest is complete.
But wretched women, such as I,
O Allah! Mercy passes by—
The bitter of defeat!
“Your wallets bulge with victors’ spoil,
Love calls you home again;
But I can only weep, and toil
On this my empty, native soil,
War-harvested of men.”
She tossed at me her Moslem scorn:
I heard her drone a prayer—
A supplication wild, forlorn,
To Allah, god of meat and corn ;
To look on her despair.
There smote me sadness hot with pain
What time I watched her go
Down, down towards the golden plain;
Then I arose and rode again
Towards the blazing snow.
SYRIA.
GERARDY.


A Man is Known by
the Company he keeps
BRINDS
WHISKY
is Real Good
Company
A Mellow Pot-Still Spirit
■wsnu 1
URDfWiy
PATON
1060*
To meet the
demand
TOOHEYS
Have brewed a
Special Stout
Equal to Imported.
TRY IT.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most
Furnislied and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in everjgf'Hetail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuilsine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
'innaging GirectO".
The Courts have their chances to deal
with one very pernicious form of profiteering,
and they usually put on their kid gloves
before tackling the job. At North Sydney
lately a defendant pleaded guilty to (1) sell-
ing milk short in quantity and (2) possess-
ing unstamped measures. An inspector
stated that defendant had been supplying
three milk vendors under contract, one with
27 gallons daily, the others with upwards
of 20 gallons. On July 6 the 27-gallon buyer
was supplied seven-and-a-haif pints short: —
Defendant had three unstamped measures, one pur-
porting to contain 10 gallons 3 pints; another 10
gallons 2 pints; the third 10 gallons 7 pints. Wit-
ness measured the receptacles, and found them short
of the marked quantity, the result being that in
dealing with the three vendors defendant had been
robbing them of five and a half gallons each day
for over a month.
The first charge cost the profiteer £lO,
and the second £5. On the figures the dis-
honest vendor probably robbed the buyers of
165 gallons in a month. At 2s. per gallon
that means £l6 10s. It looks like a tacit
recognition on the part of the Court that
the dishonest vendor is entitled to at least
some reward for his dishonesty.
* * * *
“F.A.T.” from Kantara, Gyppoland:—
A number of the Anzac Mounted Division camped
on the Suez Canal have just distinguished themselves
in a manner which entailed unusual risk. A large
t rench transport, the Amiral Ponty, was bound
east, carrying 1700 Chinese, who had been in
France with the Labor Corps, with about 200 French
soldiers in charge of them, and 400 civilians. She
also carried a quantity of ammunition and 120 tons
of dynamite. Passing Kantara the boat was found
to be on fire aft. Strenuous efforts were made to
subdue the flames, but as the result of some small
explosions a panic occurred aboard. Women, chil-
dren, soldiers and Chinese were soon mixed up on
the fore part of the vessel in a mad rabble. Num-
bers jumped or were thrown overboard. Heavy
rafts were tossed over, heedless of the people strug-
gling in the water. Many thereby met death or
were severely injured. Allah be praised, there were
some Billjims who made haste to the spot to render
assistance! Soon they were helping asho e poor,
limp creatures, injured and drowning, among them
the captain’s wife. Others swarmed aboard and
got to work with the fire-fighting appliances, while
others helped to restore order. Though in danger
of being blown up at any moment, the boys never
fought better, and were eventually rewarded by
becoming masters of the outbreak. It was no small
job. The death-roll numbered 60 men and two
women. God only knows what would have hap-
pened had not the men from the Sunny South
hopped it to the rescue!
* * • *•
“Sydmas”: The new curate, just arrived
from Oxford, took up duty in a Banana-
land diocese. Though a “High Church” lad
himself, the bishop was “Low Church”
about 3000 ft. below sea level. The curate’s
“High” proclivities naturally colored his cor-
respondence, and, having occasion to write
to his lordship,
he superscribed
his letter “St.
Swithin’s Day.”
The rugged epis-
copus headed his
reply “Washing
Day.”
WAR SETTLED ALL THAT.
“What made George and Nellie separatef
It’s only the other day they were
married-.”
“What could she do? George actually wanted
her to settle down and live with him?”
“Bally Who” : In the wake of the Jazz will
doubtless come the “crazy conductor.” He was
invented in Germany and copied more or less
all over Europe and the U.S.A. The original
was a German who called himself McStinger
(or something equally Scotch), and he
reached his zenith in 1913 when the eafd
at which his band made noises became one
of the chief tourist resorts. Each diner was
given a book containing the words of many
popular songs, and the eaters thundered out
the choruses in between mouthfuls, while the
long-haired McStinger out-sousa’d Sousa,
sometimes stopping the music abruptly while
FIXING THE STATUS.
“They're always together—l wonder if
they're married?''
“Oh, yes—both of them.”
he flung a dart of wit at a newcomer. I have
seen the German eat, and I have never been
able to understand how he permitted his
mind to be thus taken off his food.
* * * *
“Sarita”: “Tin Hat’s” recollections of
the Fleurbaix tragedy must bring bitter re-
flections to old sth Division men.
From 8000 to 10,000 passed through
the casualty station within 48
hours. General McCay could no
doubt give the exact figures. The
idea was to draw German troops
from Pozieres, where the other
A.I.F. divisions were going to
operate. We drew them all right!
They came up by express train to
Lille, killed us, and then caught
the train back for Pozieres. Bombs
were handed out to us without
pins, orders were given and counter-
manded, Red Tabs ran down the
trenches and scuttled back again.
Meanwhile inferior ammunition
from our own then largely-un-
trained artillery blew many a fine
lad to glory. The whole spectacle
was blood and confusion. Mean-
while at Pozieres Australians were
attacking under some organisation
at least; but whatever those good
divisions achieved did not
excuse the tragedy _ and
misery of the Fifth Division
at Fleurbaix. No official
statement has, however, ever
been made relating to it.
Even Bean has overlooked it
so far. Or the Censor has overlooked it for
him.
* * * *
In Sydney the other day an 80-year-old
carpenter claimed, under the Workmen’s Com-
pensation Act, for injuries sustained through
no fault of his own, while flooring a house.
He gave evidence that his normal earnings
were £4 a week, and he claimed £2 a week
while he was laid up. And the case was
defended! Judge Scholes gave the old
wonder £1 a week as from the date of the
accident.
“Gunner”: Judging by his effort (B.
31/7/’l9) “Digger” and 1 misunderstand one
another. I say an "officer caste,” meaning
an “officer system,” is necessary in the
A.1.F., as in other armies. He takes “caste”
to mean “swank.” The complaint re the
men being excluded from the best Egyptian
hotels is old, but legitimate. It was the
outcome of a British military order, and no
one regretted it more than 99
out of every 100 A.I.F. officers
of my acquaintance. As re-
gards travelling with niggers, I
never knew an Australian
ranker to do it who had a pre-
judice against the practice. The
tirst-class carriages of the Cairo
suburban trains were full of
A.I.F. privates at all hours of
the day and night; and a cor-
poral and two drivers from my
unit went on leave to Luxor in
the same first-class compart-
ment as I did in December,
1915. Certainly there was an
idiotic order (British, not Aus-
tralian) to the contrary; but
at any rate, from the evacua-
tion onwards, the Britishers
themselves seemed to agree that
it should be disregarded. The
yarn that nurses were ever de-
barred in any way from asso-
ciating with private soldiers, if
they wished to, is plain foolish-
ness. Ask any Australian nurse
what her answer would have
been if a brass or other “hat”
'had suggested such a thing, and
her answer will provide the
point of view. In London, when
I left, nurses were to be seen
being entertained by blue-
banded Diggers all over the
West End. The statement as
to the deck space, accommoda-
tion, etc., on troopships being
all in favor of the officers is
correct. Also, some of them
may have been duds or unfortu-
nates who had been cashiered
or dismissed the service. But
95 per cent, of A.I.F. officers
had served in the ranks. And,
after all, the only way to get
leaders is to offer men induce-
ments to lead. Which brings
me back to the main and essen-
tial point, that an army, like
any other concern, is successful
in proportion as it lets its men
of proved capacity push to the
top. Some of them may “swank”
when they get there; others may turn out
failures in one way or another. But the
principle remains. Who would wish to fight
with, or even be in, an army, however free
from “swank,” in which every man led him-
self?
* * * *
“Copabella”: After years of perfunctory
of Old Guard committeemen,
Geelong (Vic.) Hospital, goaded into action
by the local press, had to face a committee-
election. This necessitated a delving into
50-year-old bylaws to find out how to con-
duct it. What was found was more a
symposium of rules than one rule. After
amending and adding to itself three times,
the bylaw contradicted its main clause hope-
lessly. Among the alterations found neces-
sary in a suffrage that permitted flagrant
plural-voting was a clause to forbid “plump-
ing.” This wasn’t regarded as satisfactory,
and in 1910 a harassed committee looked
round for an ideal rule that would settle all
difficulties. This it found in the bylaws of
the local football club. The committee
adopted the rule gratefully, adding it to
tlxe patchwork; and, that there should be
no doubt of either its intentions or its
gratitude, the committee did not define the
new regulation: it solemnly recorded that
in all future elections by ballot “the method
of voting adopted should be that of the
Geelong Cricket and Football Club.” And
the Government solemnly approved and
gazetted it.
“Dido”; At Melbourne Princess’s, as a
result of a man’s coat bursting into flame,
an alarm of fire created temporary con-
fusion in the gallery, followed- by a rush
for the stairs. Foremost in the scramble
was a small, thick-set man. plugging ahead
under the burden of a • fat woman who
sagged over his shoulder, almost covering
the heroic bullant who was bearing her
down the apparently interminable stairs to
safety. Most of the others in the rush tailed
off as the knowledge that the flight was
the result of a false alarm spread among
them; but the tiny tiger, under that dead-
weight of comatose female, could not see
what was doing. Eventually he landed in
Little Bourke, and, flopping his load on the
road, stood by the mass of adiposity and
mixed apparel and gasped. At this moment
a second large woman staggered from the
theatre door and surged down upon the
small hero. She nearly shook his head off.
“I’ll teach you,” she panted—“l’ll teach
you to carry another woman down and
leave me to walk!” It was the first inti-
mation to reach the pocket Hercules. In
the welter following the alarm he had
caught up the wrong lady.
“2562”: Harking back to the Syrian kid
who patched his pants with a parcel wrapper
(B. l/5/’l9>, I think I met his sister. One
day, while we were at Tripoli, Syria, a girl
of'about 18 walked through our lines. Her
blouse and dress were made wholly of parcel
wrappers, and they represented every unit of
the 3rd and 4tli Brigades. One of our chaps
took a photo of her. But she wasn’t the only
freak. There were two Syrian small boys-
who were always together, and generally
naked. One day they pranced up to the
camp each wearing a horse’s nosebag with
holes cut for head and arms.
* * * *
If some overseas shipowners haven’t sub-
sidised the seamen’s strike they are mean
dogs, for they have been getting nice pick-
ings out of the inter-State trade. Some-
times, however, they have lost a morsel
through opening their mouths too wide.
Just before the gas wept out in Hobart an
attempt was made to get a Yankee vessel,
which was coming down for a cargo of jam
and sundries, to bring 500 tons of Newcastle
coal. The Yankee agreed to do it—at £2
a ton. The Gas Co. reckoned that it would
do without the coal.
* * * *
“Dam” : I was passing the Ravine at Hilt
60, on my way from the line, when I
spotted one of the boys sitting beside the
duckboards writing something on his res-
pirator. I had a look and read the words:
“Well done, good and faithful servant.” “Yon
see, Dark,” he confided to me, “I can’t shout
it a booze, so this is the least I can do, for
it kept me alive through 15 hours of gas off
and on yesterday and last night.” I saw
numbers of similar inscriptions on respira-
tors afterwards.
The sins of Canon Wise, the Adelaide
heretic, have been the subject of prelimi-
nary inquiry by a Church Commission, which
reports that there are grounds for further
proceedings. Whereupon Dr. Nutter Thomas,
the weakest figure that walks in gaiters in
Australia —imported, of course —wrote to
ask “whether you submit to sentence.” Wise
simply handed the letter to Josiah Symon.
It is not often a lawyer gets a chance of
talking like a Dutch Uncle to a bishop, and
this is the way the Symon firm did it:—
Even an ordinary criminal is not brought up for
sentence until he is convicted. But you appear to
think Mr. Wise should submit to be sentenced—and
by you, his accuser—before any offence is proved
against him. The only precedent is Jeddart Jus-
tice, which hanged a .man first and tried him after-
wards .... Tlie accuser is surely the last person to
pass sentence on the accused. Moreover, you are no
formal accuser, but the activp personal prosecutor.
To this the Bishop replied that he was
simply acting under “rule 29 of chapter 5,”
which requires the question to be asked;
but the inexorable lawyers answered: “We
are aware of the rule to which you refer,
and which you think affords you shelter. If
it did, so much the worse for the rule. But
you will see it does not.”
THE PROOF OF THE PUDDING.
‘Awful ass, that chap.”
“ 'Ow’s that?”
‘‘l ashed him to lend me a tenner.”
“He refused?”
“No — lent, it!”
Domestic infelicity produces great pleasure
to the multitude —largely because the multi*
tude has to live with its wife and its hus-
band —but a new thrill was passed along at
Melbourne the other day. During the voyage
of a transport a Digger's wife attempted to
deposit herself overboard. A scrupulous
sentry stopped her, whereupon the Digger
attacked the guardian of the piece—at least,
that is what he was arrested for. It recalls
an old Bulletin illustration. Pat’s wife
had proceeded to drown herself, and Pat was
quiescent at the woodheap. Up rushed a 1
neighbor: “Hey, Pat! Your wife’s fallen
down the well! Do you want her?”


U’ 1
-
Jfiam
m
-/•HO
e srepared-
ABBOTS
d7Ao c /)nnk > l/oi/r dues'fs
dJi/I Sdppreciate
BREWED FROII
PURE HALTS HOPS'ONIV
THE DEAF HEAR!
The Joy and Happiness
of perfect hearing are
only appreciated by
those who have lost it.
The
Mears Earphone
makes it yours. The
Latest Model 96-Tone
Mears Earphone
In the hollow of the
hand or attached to
ear with light head
band.
with its great range of
tone and power, can be regulated by a touch
of the finger to suit the hearing for every
occasion, and for all stages of deafness.
The MEARS EARPHONE catches and inten-
sifies even the least whisper, and enables the
deaf to hear lectures, sermons and plays clear-
ly and distinctly. Small, compact, and incon-
spicuous. The MEARS EARPHONE is
recommended by leading Aurists, and many
prominent Australian citizens have had the
Mears Earphone in daily use for Seven
Years, with continued satisfaction.
A Lengthy Guarantee with each instrument
FREE TRIAL i
Call and test it, or write for booklet post free.
The Mears Earphone Co., Bernard’s Bldgs.,
Tel. 3916 City. 387 George Street, Sydney.
THE
Hotel Sydney
(SYDNEY)
Is one of the largest, most modern
and best equipped in Australia.
It is situated opposite the Railway Station
and is centra] to everywhere.
ACCOMMODATION FOR 400 GUESTS.
Quiet, Cool and Comfortable.
Hot and Cold AVater, Day and Night, in every
Bedroom.
Half an acre of Glorious Roof
Garden.
Tariff from 12/6 per day.
Have you Lunched or Dined at the “Sydney”?
Management E. T. CIIEESEMAN.
M PERSONAL
From the Vic. Bar table
Just-dead Her;? Hodges was a poor man’s son who
fought his way lo the Supreme Court Bench without
other help than his courage and intellect. One of
the keenest lawye s ever known in Australia, his
appalling temper, poured alike on the most eminent
K.C. and the youngest junior, spoiled what other-
wise would have been a great Judge. The Bar never had
the pluck to stand up to him, but just before the
THE OLD PARTNERSHIP.
Voice from Next Cell : “Farder, farder,
do you tink Gott is mit tins nowf”
war the Bar Committee sent him privately a letter of re-
proach which had some effect for a week or two, though
otherwise it was not even acknowledged. His sen-
tences were just the reverse of what one would ex-
pect ; a kinder or more merciful Judge never sat on the
Bench, and for this his memory will be kept green
by many a wretch who once cowered before him.
Counsel will rather remember “the chiding scowl and
savage sneer,” written of 20 years ago by Duffy,
now of the High Court Bench.
The late Simon Fraser, of Victoria, pos-
sessed the means of impressing his linea-
ments upon the notice of future generations,
and Melbourne art-lovers are wondering
whether he decided to do it. Years ago he
visited England and got his portrait painted
by Millais, in exchange for 2000 guineas.
The picture, which was hung in Mel-
bourne National Gallery for some time, was
a capital specimen of Millais’s work. The
painter had not unduly accentuated the
bronzed ruggedness of the sitter’s face, and
brought out his contractor-cwm-squatter
character. Bequeathed to the Gallery the
portrait of Simon Fraser would be a
valuable addition to its stock of 19th
century art.
Tasmania, which has often borrowed
education experts from Adelaide, provides
the new Director of Education for S. Aus.
As a matter of fact, W. T. McCoy has not
spent many of his 52 years in the island;
but (as Lee, Premier and Minister of
Education there, wrote to Adelaide) “he
has lifted the Department from a state of
chaos to order and efficiency.” He got his
B.A. at Sydney Uni., and was for six years
an inspector of N. S. Wales schools. He is
to get £lOOO a year in S. Aus.
Vic. State teachers have been mourning
Will Hamilton, former chief inspector, who
passed out at 72, after drawing a well-earned
pension for seven years. Unlike the average
old pedagogue, he was broadminded; knew
his job and did it, was just, and detested
humbug. He helped to train Education
Director Tate as a junior teacher, and in
later years was his
former pupil’s
right-hand m a n
and referee. When
Hamilton retired he
made no pretence
of pining after the
o 1 d atmosphere.
After a visit to
Britain he was
asked if he had
inspected ma n y
schools. “Yes,” he
replied ; “ I travel-
led through the Old
Country in a motor-
car, and whenever
I caught sight of a
building that looked
like a school I
called on the chauf-
feur to drive like
the Devil till the
place was out of
view.”
CART. DUNCAN,
A.D.C. to G.-G.
Ferguson.
Gone to report at G.H.Q., Col. Stew T art
Newall, a M.L. soldier of parts. Born in Scot-
land, he migrated to Victoria in 1863, and
crossed thence to Otago (M.L.) to try
hand at gold-mining. When the Waikato
trouble broke into flame Newall joined the
militia, and for many years helped to show
Henare the error of his ways. He com-
manded a M.L. contingent during the Boer
War, and was decorated with the Queen’s,
mtual with four clasps. Seventy-six when
the “fall-out”' sounded.
Twenty-five years ago three lads fresh
from- school set out to earn a living in
Geelong, one as message-boy in a lawyer’s
. office, the others as architect’s
apprentices. None had any
“pull,” and one at least of
the three was wearing his
dad’s cut-down suit. They
were in adjoining offices, and
one day decided to cement
their mateship with Indian
ink. With a penknife they
painfully tattooed one
another’s initials on their
forearms. Things have
changed with them since.
Only the blue tattoo marks
have stood still. One of the
trio is now Major-General
Rosenthal, K.C.8.; another is
Geo. R. King, principal of
Gordon College, Victoria’s
premier technical institute
on the iron-working and wool-
research sides; the third is E. A. McDonald,
barrister and solicitor, and mayor-presump-
tive of his native city.
When Joseph Twist recently passed over
at 90, Western Vic. lost its oldest pioneer.
Like most of the first settlers. Twist was
born in Tasmania. He crossed the strait as
a boy with the late Major Learmonth and
John Cox in 1839, and worked for the latter
on Mt. Rouse cattle-run .until it was re-
sumed by Capt. Fyans for an abo. reserve.
Cox then took up Werromgourt, and Twist
accompanied him as head stockman. He
finally bought land near Macarthur, where
he attended to his Herefords (some of Cox’s
original strain) until his death. Cattle were
his life-work and his hobby.
McPherson, Vic. Treasurer, is looking for
a Chief Railway Commissioner in U.S.A.
or Canada. Now that Jones is dead,
Thomas Tait, who formerly held the job
himself, may help to find a man. For third
commissioner a financial or transportation
man will be picked.
They turn up everywhere. This week
The Bulletin gets from Capt. E. W.
Latchford word that there is a Digger—him-
self: —with the British Military Mission at
Irkutsk, in Siberia. “I am the only A.I.F.
representative, here,” Latchford writes, “and
the natives haven’t yet recovered from the
shock of seeing a hat that turns up at the
side.”
Simon Fraser was a school-teacher before
he left Canada nearly 70 years ago, and his
first job in Australia was carrying the hod
for a bricklayer.
Isaacs, J., who has just celebrated his
64th birthday, adds shorthand to his many
accomplishments. When Vic. Attorney-
General and Acting Premier he obliged
departmental pressmen by taking a note of
speeches at semi-public functions to which
reporters were not admitted. One of the
occasions was the last speech of Hopetoun
to the Executive Council in 1895. Not
only can Isaacs read his own phonography
with ease, but he can decipher without
difficulty the rapidly-written signs of other
Pitmanites, as he showed by pointing out
the beginning of the required paragraph to
the official man, sitting beside him on the
bench, who was reporting an arbitration
plaint in 1917.
Harding Bickford, dead of pneumonia in
Brisbane, was a son of Harry Bickford and
grandson of the founder of the A. M. Bick-
ford and Sons chemical firm. He had
charge of the manufacturing department and
laboratory in Adelaide till a branch was
opened in Queensland, and he became its
managing director.
J. M. Fowler, M.H.R. for Perth, is. to be
opposed at the next elections by Jack Curtin,
of the Westralian Labor press, and formerly
sec. to the Timber Workers’ Union (Vic.).
Curtin may perhaps be more acceptable to
the city voters of Perth than he was in Vic-
toria, where as a platform-uplifter of the
pr-r-roletariat he kept the red flag waving
boldly at all seasons.
W. T. Macpherson, who succeeds C. E. D,
Meares as president of Sydney Chamber of
Commerce, is a partner in Holdsworth, Mac-
pherson end Co. Quarter of a century back
he capta _ted the Randwick football team
(several times premiers), and was N. S.
Wales champion amateur ped. In 1892
he did the 250 yards in 24 3-ssec.—still
the world’s record for amateurs and pro-
fessionals. These days he mixes golf and
tennis.
Died lately in a military hospital in Lin-
c°ln (Eng.), Colonel A. C. Thompson,
D. 5.0., of the Dublin Fusiliers. He got
a captaincy and a “mention” in the Boer
War. With his brother Frank he was in
America when the gong sounded. They
hurried to England and joined the Dublins,
and both were badly gassed in France after
a lot of hard going. The Colonel was a
son of the late J. B. Thompson, N. S. Wales
Government land valuer, and an early
Hawkesbury College student. One of his
brothers is Bill, M.L.At; two others are still
in Blighty.
John Wren, of the tote and the “ponies,”
now lives in a “mansion” on Studley Park-
road, high above the depressing flats of Col-
lingwood and Fitzroy. The other day he
came down off his eminence and made a
Peace-offering at the Collingwood Town
Hall. It was a free feed, open to all
comers, and the chief speaker was Labor-
leader Frank Tudor. This country can pro-
duce no other profiteer who has drawn such
massive dividends on his original capital as
Wren has done, mostly from the lower
strata of society; and the handing of a bun
and cup of tea to the wives and children of
his late customers doesn’t justify the leader
of a great party in assisting to establish him
as a friend of the people.
Died on the Blue Mountains (N.S.W.),
aged 82, Jesse Gregson, at one time chief
negotiator for Australian colliery proprietors.
He came from Kent, and was managing a
station, in Queensland when in 1876 he
was offered the job of g.m. of the big A.A.
Co. in succession to E. C. Merewetlier, who
had been private sec. to Governor Gipps.
Gregson was a silent, punctual man, who de-
voted all his time and talents to the interests
of his English employers. The co. was form-
ed in London in 1825, when Thomas Brisbane
was Governor. The capital was £1.000.000,
and the free grant of land in N. S. Wales
amounted to 1,000,000 acres. The first
members included the Attorney-General of
England (Copley, afterwards Lord Lynd-
liurst), the Solicitor-General, 28 members of
Parliament (amongst them Henry Brougham
and Joseph Hume), the Governor, Deputy-
Governor and eight directors of the Bank of
England, the chairman, deputy-chairman and
five directors of the East India Co., and
many other eminent bankers and merchants.
Due ot the early managers was the Arctic
explorer Parry. In Gregson’s day the co/s
labor troubles could mostly be fixed up with
James Curley, the miners’ secretary; but.
when things became too strenuous for his
years he retired to Mt. Wilson, where he
wrote a book about the A. A. Co., and
resumed his long-forgotten studies in botany.
One of the war-misfortunes that befell
Bavaria was the loss of its amusing lunatic
monarchy. There was something splendidly
MAJOR-GENERAL
E. T. WALLACE,
cx-Commandant of
N.S.W., Vic., 8. Aus.
and Tasmania.
droll about the musical
passion of the former
Bavarian monarch who
would sit alone in his
private theatre to
enjoy a performance
of Wagnerian opera.
Now it is alleged that
the aged ex-king re-
joices in a delusion
that Bavaria won the
war, and wants to
return to Munich at
the head of a victorious
phantom army. These
king-chaps are rarely
too mad to retain
hereditary faith in
their pre-eminence. The
most notable exception
was Nebuchadnezzar.
He went forth into the
paddock to eat grass.
A w-eather-crusted old salt went over the
side when Captain Rene David Scotte, of
New Caledonia, died at Sydney. He was
one of the earliest of the French skippers
who piloted their craft between N.C., the
New Hebrides, Tahiti and thereabouts
in the ’sixties, amongst his commands being
the Ocean Queen, La Perouse and Man-
gana. He was 06 when his death was
logged.
Another Australian adventurer of note
returned last week —Donald Mcßeath,
•John McCormack’s treasured violinist.
Mcßeath, Sydney-born, threw in his lot with
the Royal Flying Corps, and became a
flight-commander. He got the hang of the
job so thoroughly that he put through their
instruction 74 cadets without one of them
having a “crash.” Mcßeath himself made
over 8000 flights without an accident, ex-
cept that he badly jambed a finger in a
gun. This will prevent him playing his
fiddle for some time, and a slight heart-
strain seconds his finger’s requisition for a
rest.
The passing of Melbourne’s Old Ex-
change into the hands of 'the Common-
wealth Bank reminds one that evergreen
Byron Moore was a notable man of affairs
before he became identified with the V.R.C.
It was he, ex-assistant Surveyor-General
for the State, who started a telephone ex-
change in Melbourne two years before the
first ring of a telephone bell in London.
But. the ’phone wires were found to be
pulling the walls of the old Exchange build-
ing into Collins-street, so the outfit was
removed to Wills-street. After Private
Enterprise had run the business for seven
years the Graham Berry Government
bought the company out. Byron Moore
was associated for 41 years with the build-
ing that served as Melbourne Stock Ex-
change up to the period of the silver boom.
The Bulletin’s Melbourne staff went
there then, and as time moved on they were
joined by a number of newspaper agencies,
including the S. M. Herald. I n its old
age the historic building thus became inti-
mately connected with the press. The new
Stock Exchange across the road might be
closed for a week at Christmas and Easter,
but festive seasons and royal birthdays made
no difference to the community of journ-
alists quartered in the dim and dusty Old
Exchange. They are sorry to quit. They
had a natural affinity with the place where
Australia’s telephone service was inaugu-
rated and carrier-pigeons used to racketty-
coo on the roof.
Gov.-Gen. Munro-Ferguson is keen on get-
ting. a solar observatory established in Aus-
tralia. So far the suggestions that the
Federal Ministry might help the thing along
have fallen on stony ground ; the Common-
wealth. has other uses for all the money it
can raise. Another of the G.-G.’s pet ideas
is that Macquarie Island, away down south,
should be set aside as a Commonwealth-
controlled reserve for sub-Antarctic fauna.
If he gets a chance he will run down there
before his term of office ends.
(Continued on page 18.)
THE MINX.
[Foh The Bulletin.]
I seize my pen to write in praise
Of one whose name in bygone days
Was held up in a dozen ways
To obloquy and shame.
No matter what the matter was,
Or right or wrong, or “just because,”
If anybody broke the laws
She always got the blame.
The Minx! The Minx!
The skimpy-skirted Minx!
Her beaming eye to strollers by
Would pass the gladsome winks.
If Juggins backed a losing horse,
Or Mrs. Juggins sought divorce,
Was theirs the fault? Not so! of course
They blamed it on the Minx.
The most mis-chee-vi-ous of girls,
She dressed her hair in corkscrew curls
And chased the lords and dukes and earls .
(And often caught them, too).
Her lover true she laughed to scorn,
And left his heart in fragments torn.
Then played the “Maiden all Forlorn”
The “Hoyden” or the “Shrew” !
The Minx ! The Minx !
The roguish, modish Minx!
Her angel smile was full of guile—
She revelled in high jinks!
With winning glance and saucy poise
She turned the heads of all the boys,
Then threw them out like broken toys—
The calculating Minx !
But when the Kaiser smote the world
And Satan's blood-stained flag unfurled,
And nations in a death-dance whirled—
The Minx, what did she then?
She bound her hair with snowy bands
That hid its curly golden strands,
And sterilised her little hands
And went to nurse the men !
The Minx! The Minx!
The plucky little Minx !
She scrubs the floor
While cannon roar
And never shirks nor shrinks.
Upon her breast the cross of red,
She sits beside a soldier’s bed,
Who calls down blessings on her head —■
And is she still a Minx?
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
C. H. SOUTER.


'T'HE usual type of
Ready-to-Wear
Clothes does not satisfy
the man who is particu-
lar about his dress.
His demand is for a better fitting
than is provided by the ordinary
range of clothing stock sizes.
Moreover, he looks for a character
in the clothes he wears, which is
evident only in garments that have
been designed and cut by expert
tailors and made by craftsmen
who are trained in the art.
i- tnri ■ . . v -
In an “Austral” Sac Suit Ready-to-Wear,
the most particular of men find a standard
of quality and service to satisfy their
demands.
Style and character are outstanding features of every
single suit, expressed not only by the high standard
of tailoring but by the quality of fabrics as well.
An absolutely satisfactory fitting is assured both the
normal and abnormally proportioned man. A wonder-
ful range of regular and between shades is available,
and invite the men who have an urgent dress need
to test this service here to-day.
Ready
to Wear
631-, 75|,- 84| , 95J-, 105/-,
115/-, 126/-
A special discount of 5 per cent, is allowed to Returned
Soldiers in Uniform on all purchases of £5 or over.
NEW CATALOGUE SENT POST FREE ON REQUEST.
Orders Delivered Free in City , Suburbs and Country .
484 to 490 GEORGE STREET,
3 to 17 ROYAL ARCADE.
New Branch Store at 304 George Street (near Hunter Street),
SYDNEY.
it A
M
♦v»
flii
I
m
Wi
Mgf^
3
£
iM
if.fr
i
»
w«
»/•'«/*>
awa
s*;
*s
ft
l
as
I
5%
IS®
¥2
*.i
VUf
ft
?*»
m
1A
t-fewg
V'"i
>.d
&
m
mi
mm
m
m
M
M
W'?
2rt
ft
.'iv
j£
Pi
M
Sft
i
*
"sfe
BBS!
ft
;a
0
m
V:'*
TO
i
zaw'jgs
yw»
$4
/JVC
Vi
3N
;sr*
S 3
♦f.i
&
w
•Wm;'
ft
M£
i
>»
3®
2*
1
&V
MS
MNfJ
m
fin
3B»
sa
YV
?*
tv
«&2
#*A
•7?*%
m
&
h
&A
*'vV
9K
9%
K£
<ty
®B!S
&
S&g
H
w
ji*
m
i
«a
83$
sagas?


The Chicago Portable Watchman’s Clock
“For Registering the Attendance of Watchmen on Duty.”
As used by
Government
Institutions,
Banks,
Shipping
Offices,
Wharves
and
Warehouses
FIG. 3—CLOCK WITH CASE
OPENED, SHOWING DIAL IN
PLACE AND PARTIAL REGIS-
TRATION.
PIG. 2—CLOCK IN LEATHER
CASE READY FOR SERVICE.
This cut shows case with fixed
guard to protect crystal. This
or one with shifting plate sup-
plied at buyer’s" option.
FIG. 6—STATION BOX OPEN.
SHOWING KEY AND CHAIN.
W here these
machines are in
use fires are prac-
tically unknown,
and every firm
carrying: a valu-
able stock and
employ in g: a
Watchman
should install one
or more of these
up-to-date Re-
corders, which can
be supplied up to
J 2 Stations if
required.
The clock is of special construction, made by the Waltham Watch Company, and is a J5-jewelled stem-winding
8-day movement with Breguet hairspring, and is built to stand the hard Service required in a Watchman’s
Recording Clock, and with ordinary care should last for 20 years.
The equipment is supplied complete for 6, 9 or J 2 Stations as required, and the Station-boxes can be erected by
any ordinary mechanic. CATALOGUES POSTED FREE ON APPLICATION.
F. G. NICHOLLS, Sole Australian Agent, 18 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Since the introduction of Responsbile Gov-
ernment in N. S. Wales (1856) Parliament
has had 18 Smiths, 14 Browns and eight
Joneses, but not one Robinson.
Mark Antony’s chances of getting into the
next N.S.W. Parliament don’t look much
better than Julius Caesar’s. It is just the
bad luck of Mark Antony, whose other name
is Davidson. In the late ’nineties he went
to Cobar and hung out his shingle as
A.W.U. agent, also hairdresser and tobac-
conist. In turn lie became a local alderman
and a big man in the Oddfellows, and thence
it: was easy to selection when Charles S. Fern
died. Under the redistribution scheme four
single Western N.S.W. electorates are made
into one to return three members only. The
Nash-Liberals are pretty sure of at least
one representative—probably B. J. Doe —
while Broken Hill will no doubt swing in
two Laborites, Cobar town being now a
mere wilderness of despair owing to the
closing of the local mines: So the House
will lose Mark Antony, one of the most
popular members on the Labor side.
“John Drayman” meets an old friend:—
By far the rawest and rabidest soap-box orator
of the old Active Service Brigade of Sydney was
lommy Dodd. This shock-headed lantern-jawed
stripling, whose clothes always seemed as if they
had been bought second-hand for a schoolboy
brother, was, when on the stump, a cross between
a windmill and a whirlwind. He had a harsh but
“carrying” voice, and his lips scattered froth and
fury like a soap-fed geyser. His earnestness was
undoubted, but when he let himself go, which he
generally did, the hurricane of his eloquence carried
him far beyond the hither boundary of sheer fanati-
cism, and his hearers saw visions of barricades
rising in Pitt-street, a guillotine working overtime
on top of the Herald Office, and the redoubtable
Tommy Dodd and his comrades dancing the carmag-
nole all across the city from Redfern to Potts
Point. As usual, nothing materialised, and writer
lost sight of Mr. Dodd for 20 years or so. Then
he was discovered in a southern city, sleek and
well-garbed, mild-mannered and persuasive, writing
big figures as a prosperous life-assurance agent of
tremendous tonnage. He had only five minutes to
spare for reminiscences of old A.S.B. personalities
and events, but a full 40 minutes for the task
of securing his interviewer’s signature for a few
more hundreds of assurance on his life, “under the
splendid provisions of our new Table A.”
“T. 0.1.”: Re queer firm-names. In Mel-
bourne in the ’fifties Alfred Bliss and
Alfred Joy were in partnership as auction-
eers—Bliss and Joy. Bliss was a member
of the Garrick Club, and took part in an
after-piece in which the late Mrs. Alfred
Phillips had a part. In one scene she
clasped Bliss in her arms, and the text
fitted in: “This is bliss !” It brought down
the house.
Tall men abound in the Victorian Parlia-
ment. In the Landlords’ House Baillieu,
White, Crooke, Kendall, McWhae and
Brawn are among the giants, and pretty
close up to them come Sternberg, Hicks,
Beckett, Sachse and Davis (Gippsland).
Of the Assembly group, Hogan, Pennington,
Carlisle and Weaver are conspicuous; and
Beardmore cannot be much below Weaver.
Bayles, Bowser, Lawson, James Cameron
and McLennan are the others who have
length if not breadth to their credit.
“Dial Sight”: My vote for the most popu-
lar A,I.F. padre in France goes to J. E.
Gault, whose “joy evenings” at the
Y.M.C.A. huts will be remembered by
thousands who passed through the base at
Le Havre. Daggers who at first scoffed at
the Methody idea of joyfulness soon came
under his influence and flocked his way.
A born showman, on summer evenings, when
confinement to camp made the best of us
feel mutinous, his scheme was to conduct
voluntary route-marches to the beech-forests
overlooking Harfleur. His impromptu con-
certs —his own contributions were mainly
from “The Sentimental Bloke”—and his
personal magnetism were such that scarcely
any of his flock of 500 or so ever sidled off
to the adjacent village and its. beer joint.
H hen at home Gault practises cheerful
Christianity among the factory-chimneys of
Collingwood.
TV hen TV illiam Lanne, the last Tasmanian
male aborigine, was buried at Hobart in
18b9, the pallbearers were four of his ship-
mates from the whaling barque Runnymede.
They were Captain Hill, a white Tasmanian
native; John Bull, a Honolulu man; Henry
Whalley, a half-caste from Kangaroo Island
(S.A.) ; and Alexander Davidson, an Ameri-
can negro. They were a mixed crowd, those
whalers. William died at a now vanished
public-house, the Dog and Partridge. He
was paid off on February 28, the balance of
his “lay” being £l2 ss. 3d., and died on
March 3, apparently from too much rum and
she-oak. The night before he was buried
someone skinned his head and took away the
skull, putting the head of a hospital patient
who died about the same time inside the
black scalp. The job was finished the night
after the funeral, when the rest of the corpse
was stolen from the grave.
Records of long service in one employ are
common in the Speck, but C. J. Maxwell,
manager of the Commercial Bank of Tas-
mania, is still a notable case. It is over
50 years since he first commenced to juggle
C. J.
MAXWELL ,
Manager
Commercial
Bank of
Tasmania.
figures for the
Commercial, and
he has been doing
it ever since, with
intervals for
cricket, golf and
taking round the
plate in church.
Besides, he has
reared half a
dozen boys, four
of whom did him
and their country
credit in the re-
ce n t complica-
tions in Europe.
The quartette
added o ne D.S.O.
and three M.C.’s
to the family
heirlooms before
the uproar died
down to a dis-
cussion concern-
in g boundaries
and Bolsheviks.
Dean Mitchell, a mining engineer on
Bewick-Moreing’s staff, was brought to
Westralia by his friend H. C. Hoover when
the latter was in charge of B.M.’s business
there. Both were exceptionally brilliant
graduates of the Leland Stanford Univer-
sity, California. Mitchell has been five
years in Russia, where he has made a vast
fortune out of a group of mines, mainly gold
and silver-lead. One of his cos. earned
£1.200,000 profit in 1918, and paid £BOO,OOO
in dividends to its mostly-British share-
holders. The treasures are in the Ural
Mountains.
Walter Kingsmill, tipped as future
President of Westralia’s Leg. Council, is
one of the brainiest politicians in the Star*
but suffers from attacks of tiredness** h 2
was a St. Peter's College bo, and took *
degiee at Adelaide 'Varsity, but aot
most of his education afterwards. Some S of
it was gamed rabbiting in N. S Wale,
and a lot more doing odd jobs in the nor’-
west of Australia. Amongst other things
he is an encyclopaedia as regards the wavs
of Australian birds, beasts and fishes, and
he has carried out some notable acclima-
tisation work in the West.
One of several remarkable things about
Sergeant Martin O’Meara, V.C., is that
although an Irishman, he objects to fightin-’
After enlisting he tried unsuccessfully to
transfer to a non-combatant corps, and
while in I ranee frequently expressed re-
pugnance at having to kill his fellow-man
I hen came four hideous days at Mouquet
harm, when O’Meara repeatedly went into
No Man’s Land, under the heaviest artillery
fire, and brought back wounded Diggers.
Afterwards he carried ammunition through
a heavy barrage to a portion of the trenches
which the Hun was shelling. Which is why
the Royal George decorated him with the
V.C. at Buckingham Palace.
There was a lot of uncertainty about sur-
veying in Queensland in the old days. In
1840 the aborigines fell on a survey party at
Mt. Lindsay, killed G. C. Staplyton, ‘ the
leader, and ate so much of him that when two
blackfellows were tried for the murder there
was not enough left to identify. Staplyton
had worked on the first survey of Melbourne.
A Queensland railway station has been
named after him.
“A.W.” hails a useful Australian:—
Ilia name is W. G. Hoole. When the war started
he was health and food inspector in the Port Mac-
quarie district of N. S. wales. He went to Gallipoli,
was a stretcher-bearer fne brought me in, among
others), and at last was himself outed. After re-
cuperating at Malta he was pronounced unfit for fur-
ther service in the field, and, after a while in
Egypt, was sent to England as sanitary inspector of
A.I E. training camps. Always keen on his job, he
studied sanitary science some more while carrying
on his military work. He won the gold medal
(1917) in Hygiene and Sanitation, honors diploma
in Advanced Hygiene, and the Advanced Certificate
of the Royal Sanitary Institute. This certificate is
held hy very few in Great Britain, and Hoole is
said to be the first Australian to get it. They made
him a member of the Royal Sanitary Institute, the
Institute of Hygiene, and the Royal Institute of
Public Health.
Oil paintings of O’Shanassy and McLean,
ex-Premiers, and Mason, Speaker, cover
much of the wall space of the Vic. Assembly
lounge. O’Shanassy, attired for a ball or a
levee of the old times, is shown addressing
the table of the House. McLean, who, just
before he died, was turned down by Gipps-
land to make room for George Wise, is de-
picted seated, bringing to mind that he was
lame for years owing to an accident in the
sale-yards. Mason is drawn as he appeared
when he read, at the Assembly table, his own
death-warrant—the proclamation, obtained
by Irvine, proroguing Parliament prior to
the dissolution in 1902. It was at the sub-
sequent election that Livingston dispossessed
Mason of his Parliamentary seat.
THE WAY OF US ALL.
[For The Bulletin.]
We’ll measure it. not br r years, but miles,
This load that we needs must follow ;
We’ll sprinkle it over with tears and smiles,
And travel it, hill and hollow.
’Tis merry you are, and your steps are glad,
For smooth is the stretcli you travel;
A score of miles ahead of you, lad,
I’m cursing the grit and gravel.
You’ve berries to eat and grapes to suck,
And flowers on your patli are sprinkled;
But all the fruits that are mine to pluck
Are bitter and dry and wrinkled.
All gracious and green on either hand
The fields from your feet go trending;
But, somehow, a shadow lies on the land
Where I, through the dust, am wending.
For even its gold seems touched with grey,
Since grey is for age and sorrow ;
Ah, what I am seeing, my lad, to-day,
You’ll see for yourself to-morrow.
As though they were lit for your own self’s sake,
The lights in the noon skies strengthen;
But limbs that are weary and bones that ache
You’ll know when the shadows lengthen.
The road is the same for us all, in truth.
Though brave to your eyes, and splendid ;
And where I am t.udging to-day, bright youth,
You’ll trudge ere your journey’s ended.
Yet merry and free be that heart of yours,
While bright be the leagues you follow;
Twcre cruel to burthen the soul that soars,
Or tether the wheeling swallow!
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


Chandler Six
By reason of its PRONOUNCED QUALITY is recognised in every market of the world as a
LEADER in the HIGH-GRADE CLASS. NO CAR SOLD gives MORE SATISFACTION.
LARGE STOCKS NOW ON HAND.
m '
w.
niiii
: M LA;
:
ml] Mm
ip ; ; .
'
A
jl vv
j
«
.
• .
1 i
' s
The Chandler Motor Co., during six vears of INTELLIGENT and
CONSCIENTIOUS MANUFACTURING in a MAGNIFICENTLY
EQUIPPED factory, BACKED by AMPLE FINANCIAL RESOURCES,
has SPECIALISED and CONCENTRATED upon the production of ONE
MODEL ONLY, viz., a high-grade, six-cylinder car.
YOU ARE ASSURED BEYOND QUESTION that, in purchasing a
CHANDLER, THE CAR IS ,100 PER CENT. SATISFACTORY—other-
wise the manufacturer would be compelled to change the model.
Specialisation not only GUARANTEES SATISFACTORY SERVICE
—it ensures THE UTMOST VALUE FOR MONEY: it leaves the manufacturer
free to correct faults which are apparent only after years of service in the hands of
owners and to introduce IMPROVEMENTS and REFINEMENTS as
EXPERIENCE DICTATES.
The engine is silent, flexible and powerful. The electric starting and lighting
equipment is dependable. The springing—combined with the elegant high-grade body
work —ensures the UTMOST COMFORT over all classes of roads. The H.T.
magneto ignition gives FREEDOM FROM ELECTRICAL TROUBLE.
The Chandler is a car of LUXURY and REFINEMENT. It appeals to
the connoisseur. All parts are very accessible.
It is so simplified that it requires the minimum amount
of personal attention to keep it in good order.
We are in the fortunate position of having a very large number of these popular cars in stock, having received
three large shipments quite recently. We shall be glad to give you a demonstration at your convenience.
Ring City 8862 or 2567, and book your order for immediate delivery.
MARCUS CLARK & CO. LTD.
Oarage and Showrooms s 147-53 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.


mm
y: :
v -r r #
-•—■■
;• ' 2
• ■fc Sll I
,
i 1K
if
V
S
-
■
mam.
■;
M.
v?
88 I wwmMs Wm. t
.
§M WO
,
m
■r %
■Hi B
1 ■
■ 1
i
I
mm
U
M
m
m
i
m
, -"f „
i—
—M
till H
■■
I :
i3HO!
■
■y .v:.. n I
iliiS
.
MARK
If that ’
Crank Case Arm on
your Ford Car broke !
Stop tc :hink a minute on this possible
contingency, for it is a common enough
occurrence for the Crank Case Arm on
Fords to ,break, When this happens it is,
a very expensive job to get the damage
patched up, probably costing from £3 to
1 £6 to repair. The Engine must be taken
out, the,..old arm removed, and a new
one’hrazed on, with a possible delay of
several days—and when you can ill spare
the service of your handy Ford.
The "APCO” ARM eliminates both the
heavy cost of repair and the waste of time
in delay. Ten minutes with a wrench will
make a better job of it than a new factory
arm, and its cost is exceptionally low in pro-
portion to its value.
The "APCO” CRANK CASE ARM is
made from malleable iron by the largest manu-
facturers of Ford equipment in the world.
It is carefully machined to a perfect fit, and
weighs two pounds. No item has ever been
offered that will do so much for so little
money, and so, in the event of a broken
Crank Case Arm, insist that an "APCO” be
fitted at once. Most every Ford repair man
keeps them in. stock,
DISTRIBUTING AGENTS FOR "APCO”: ,
N.S.W.: UNION ACCESSORY CO.
JF. G. Brown] 465 Pitt St. Sydney, (neat Hotel Sydney)
VICTORIA:
J. J. MEYER, u 7 Elizabeth St., MELBOURNE
SOUTH AUSTRALIA 5
CORNELL’S LTD., Adelaide
Factory Attorneys:
THOMPSON, MEGSITI & CO., Daily Telegraph Buildings, SYDNEY.^
"APCO" ENERGISER
Give 20 per cenr. more Speed, Powe
and Mileage.
"APCO” TIMER
The Brains of the Car. T
renewable Timer on the
APCO ' STEERING COLUMN
BRACE
Gives support where specially needed
Randwick, which became a municipality
in 1859, may celebrate its diamond jubilee
by joining the city of Sydney and becoming
a part thereof. A conference is to be held
on the subject. Its first Mayor, Simon H.
Pearce, a Crown Lands Commissioner, came
from Randwick, in Gloucestershire, and
settled in the district in 1844.
“Kaylee”: Aeronauts have their own
slanguage. The airplane is a “ ’bus”; and
the “ceiling” is its maximum altitude, A
bad landing is a “crash,” though it may not
be such a bad descent as it sounds, and to
“pancake” is to land flat. The
lever is the “joy stick.” A non-flying offi-
cer is a “kiwi.” “Kiwi” got into the vocabu-
lary through an impression that the bird
can’t soar. But can’t it?
During the financial year 1917-18 Aus-
tralia imported goods, mostly manufactured,
to the value of over £60,000,000, of which
no less than £48,000,000 worth came from
foreign countries. It looks awful enough
that way, but it looks worse when you come
to realise that it means, supposing we pro-
duced the raw material and manufactured
the goods ourselves, that we deliberately
deprived ourselves of work enough to pay a
good wage to about 230,000 workers, heads of
families. In a word we sent away enough
work to maintain a dozen cities of 100,000
people each.
“Yinni” : Andy Lang, the Australian high
flier who went up 30,500 ft. last January
is back in Brisbane, after serving through
the war with the R.P.C. and the R.A.F.
Brisbane knew him previously as an em-
ployee of the Canada Cycle Agency. In
Blighty he soon scintillated as a handler
of ’planes, and >vas put on test work,
which involves the risk of finding out the
tricks of new ’buses. After he had gone
half-way to Heaven and broken the alti-
tude record in a Ilaviland machine, he was,
bv the way, put under arrest by the War
Office. You. see he had told a reporter
what it felt like up there ; and that was a
breach of King’s Regulations. However,
the War Office was merciful and he wasn’t
shot at dawn,
Whaling in the Modern Way.
[For The Bulletin.]
A BIG humpback appeared right among
the launches dozing at anchor in
South Bay. The Kaikoura whalers
weren’t quite ready for him, as they were
jockeying a traction-engine into position
alongside the boiling-down works to be
ready to haul the next whale up to the
beach, the regular winch being under, over-
haul. This big humpback was to be that
whale, though he didn’t know it.
By the time the crews got out Humpback
was cruising seawards like a Hun sub-
marine making for Heligoland. Two green
and white launches went after him, one at
a speed of 28 knots, the other close up. The
whale sensed danger and sounded, and when
he rose and spouted his speed was lifting
a swell like a tugboat’s. The launches were
like competitors in a speed contest. For
nearly five miles the water rose in fountains
at their Sharp bows. Then the whale
slowed, and the terriers humored him. As
he came to a walking pace, one of them crept
up very quietly and laid right alongside, with
a great fin swaying and quivering above
her. This boat had a harpoon gun on a
pedestal in her bows; but it was not to be
used yet. The harpooner took a short
weapon with a flat, pointed end, made of
a short piece of gaspipe. It contained five
plugs of gelignite. Attached to it was a
rope and an electric wire. At the proper
moment the harpooner threw this, while the
launch’s engines were backed furiously. As
the metal sank in the blubber, the whale
sounded, flukes thrashing the water into
cataracts and nearly swamping the launch.
Down, down, down went the whale.
Whee-e-e! the cord Whistled out till nearly
60 fathoms had gone. Then someone
pressed an electric switch, and a shock like
an earthquake shivered the boat. The five
plugs of ’fracteur in the gaspipe had been
exploded, away down near the sea-bed, and
the whale had got the full force of the
blast, with the pressure of the . water to
hold him together.
The lines were being hauled in and all
hands were waiting, with engines at the
“ready,” for the leviathan to rise. Slowly
the great bulk broke water, swaying and
writhing heavily. Sometimes five plugs
hardly affect a whale’s appetite, and there
is on record a large “right” whale which
did not give up the_ fight till six spears, or
30 plugs, had torn into his vitals. This
fellow was not so tough. In the wash of the
seas his great body rolled, high-sided as a
steamer, and slowly turning belly upper-
most. Already the grey and white of the
underskin shone in the sunlight.
But though the whale was “out,” there
was still another kick coming to him—two
more, in fact. A launch backed and squared
till her bows were head on to the whale. A
harpoon, a heavy-shanked thing with a
barbed rocker-head, was shoved into the
gun. Bang! and the iron swished into
the mass of blubber. The other launch did
the same, while the first ran out a length
of flexible piping and pumped air into the
body to make it more buoyant and an
easier tow. The powerful engines began
to shake the boats to their garboards, and
slowly they set off on their long journey.
The whale, like a mediaeval battleship,
surged along behind them, back to the bay
where it had made its first appearance in
this one-star drama.
Science and brute strength come to grips
off South Bay without the traditional old-
time “There she blows !” to warn the quarry.
The industry is growing since motor-
launches and depth bombs were used, and
the whalers of Kaikoura and Te Awaite, in
Picton Sounds, are asking the Government
for a Protective tariff, to enable them to put
up works where every particle of their
takes may be turned into something useful.
Will Lawson.


---
\W
•ft
•»*
iSttfrS
*W;<
•*.*•;
«V'
v.*'
#v»
♦M
ft.
a/e
v>
♦v
r\ n n n n r\ ji in ni q «
*6
v>
inn
lr
v»*
&
If
PI
K
illllSfwiliiii l '
i;;a: !i
’ll mu i!! 1 !.IF
Sif
mm
mri rrn
(1!
liteipiliP" Ipl^iiliiP
yiiiiK iupiuulUlßumJ
ytltio
U I
inn
uuu
u UUu
I tennUHl
uuliLilji-ujuuLi
liililllQ
i! i 11M!!
UUUUUU
$
LiuLi UUliijv
m
iff*
m
iff*
SV*
SSSSi
l**«f.*?.*.*»v
diaDXOMOW
*miniTffrißTimii!!i!!!!!!illin >!*,f J|'I!!!!!ITO
DS'vxr
L,UUL)UbUUUUuITI
FIRST-BUFFING
The Buffer in each out-
fit is used to roughen the
surface so that the patch
will adhere thoroughly
Don’t use gasolene
A
4
Th.e Cement
SECOND—CEMENT
The Cement is applied’tb
the roughened surfaceand
allowed to dry. It is best
not to cement the patchs
>, a
Apply the Pate'
THIRD-APPLYING'
The Patch is pressed bn
and smoothed out with |
pressure of thumb and
fingers—*can be pumped
up tight immediately.
HQ
DOOD a fifi'B)
$ rh i't’K '6j
Jol«u§
Don’t patronise the vulcaniser,
Be a man a good deal wiser.
Monkey Grip self-vulcamses,
These are facts and not surmises.
NOW you don’t have to pay big vulcanising bills, for, with "MONKEY GRIP”
Cold Tyre Patch in your repair outfit, you can repair the largest hole in youi
tube, and right on the road, too. No skill is needed—it takes but three minutes
with three simple operations. A woman or child can make the repair so that it
will hermetically and permanently seal the hole, leaving the tube better than before.
Repairs made with "MONKEY GRIP” are self- GRIP ” will expand with the tube. This allows
vulcanising. The wear and heat of traction cause the distribution of the strain evenly °vet'the entire
the patch to fuse and become inseparably a part patch and is the principal reason why MONr^bY
pf the tube Made of pure rubber, "MONKEY GRIP” PATCHES will not creep or lessen
IN THREE SIZES-LARGE, MEDIUM, AND CYCLE
A large size can of " Monkey Grip ”
contains Tube of Cement and Sheet
6 in. x 18 in., and costs io /-, sufficient
for ioo patches Medium can contains
Tube of Cement and Sheet 3 in. x 18 in.
costing 7/6 and sufficient for 50 patches.
Cycle size, i«/ a in. x 18 in. particularly
GUARANTEED
"MONKEY GRIP” TYRE PATCH
is sold under the broad guarantee—if
you don't find it satisfactory in every
way your dealer will return your money
adapted to light tubes, pure rubber, 4/6.
You need not fear distance runs with-
out an extra tube. No matter what
size the puncture or where it happens,
" MONKEY GRIP” will make your
inconvenience not worth mentioning.
FIRST AID to your Injured Tyre 1
AN EXACTING TEST
One of the big points about "MONKEY GRIP” is that it is self-vulcanising. The
patch does not simply stay on the surface like an ordinary cold patch. It becomes
a part of the tube itself. To prove for yourself the tremendous sticking power of
« MONKEY GRIP ” ask your accessory dealer for a free sample envelope of patches
Remove the protective cloth from two patches and press them face to fa'ce with
fingers and thumbs. With a straight pull try-to pull the patches apart. Unless
you have exceptionally powerful muscles you will not be able to separate them.
If your dealer dosen’t handle "Monkey Grip,” fill out and send the
coupon below. will send you, postpaid, a sample package to try.
THE CENTRAL COAL & SHIPPING AGENCY LTD.
Please forward to me post Free Sample of " MONKEY
GRIP ? ” the World’s Tyre Patch.
-
MY ACCESSORY DEALER IS,
iNOTEsTt is important to fill this in correctly)
fe:S
HDXVd
3d IX *
XS39
said CM
3HX
k.
dias
M.if |
♦III#
. :■'■
PURE RUBBER
AND FABRIC
PATCH
•35
IS
/f# <*. /ew£? fe/ig
but
TU cut i t short
'A*«
kX*:-:
*
SOLE AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES FOR
MOCO GRIP
n
Coal! Shipping Agency
(general AGENCY DEPARTMENT.
Branch Office 39 PITT ST, SYDNEY. Tel. City 6208. ; , r


SUNSHINE.
The Lightest
Draught Harvester.
The Machine with the Sharp Spiral Beaters.
Takes off the Heads like a Lawn Mower.
Wheat Growing Pays
—with a SUNSHINE.
SUNSHINE.
The Engine for the Farm.
Sturdier, Better Finished, Simpler.
Lowest First Cost. Lowest Fuel Cost.
The Farm-hand or the Boy
can run it.
3,5, 7 and 10 h.p. Stationary or Portable.
«
47
Catalogue B, sent post free, describes Sunshine Harvesters, Engines and Implements.
H. Vb McKAY Sunshine Harvester Works—Sunshine.
Stanley Street, South Brisbane.
27-39 George Street West, Sydney.
Corner Collins and Spencer Streets, Melbourne.
Corner York and St. John Streets, Launceston.
56 North Terrace, Adelaide.
36 Pier Street, Perth.
Man cannot live by bread alone, and
neither can the hayseed cockie live by export-
ing wheat all his days. Perhaps he can
•scratch along as he did in the years 1906,
1907, 1931, 1912, when his Knibbs states
that the export value of Australian wheat
per bushel was respectively 3s. 3d.. 3s. 4d..
3s. 6d. and 3s. lid. Of course, wheat isn't
going to see these low prices again for a
generation, but the point is that a big local
market is needed to give price stability to
the wheat-growers’ production. If there
were sufficient Australian' molars to grind
and stomachs to digest all the wheat that
Rilljim Cockie raises, things would be dif-
ferent. The Mallee scratcher would then
get a big price for the farinaceous nutriment
he wrests from the rabbits, and he would be
seen cavorting around in G-cylinder buzz
waggons—like the Canadian cockie, who
turns up his nose at Fords while wheat is
2 dallars and more. Say, I want to tell
you boys that the Canadian farmer knows
something about home markets and how to
build them up. He buys waggons and har-
ness and implements and things that are
made in Winnipeg or Toronto, or there-
abouts because he wants a big lot of people
located in Winnipeg or Toronto or there-
abouts to buy his wheat at big prices. Con-
sequence is there are a lot of big factories
in those parts employing a lot of men who
eat a lot of wheat, and pay a good price for
it. The Canadian cockie sees no sense in
dragging his fencing-wire or his separator
or his plough from England or Asia or Aus-
tralia over thousands.of miles of waves, if
he can get these things made handy in
Calgary or Hamilton or Montreal. He
guesses and calculates he can get pumps and
engines and such-like made to suit him better
by people who live right near him than by
people in Asia or Australia who don’t know
much about his local conditions. Anyway,
he can drop down to the factory easily to
swear at the man who made the mower that
broke its collar-bone twice in the first round.
Australian grain-growers could take a
leaf out of the Canuck’s book and have a
shot at building up their own home market
in the same way. Most all the machinery
and equipment wanted for the farm is made
somewhere in Australia and its reputation
is good. It has the qualities of strength and
durability for which British makes are noted
rather than the cheapness and flimsiness of
foreign goods. And every item of local
manufacture bought by the farmer helps io
swell the farmers’ own best market —the
home market.— Advt.
Central Railway Palace Buildings,
Ltd., which runs the Hotel Sydney. Tne
co. had spent £2304 on advertising and pre-
liminary exes., and had collected £366 in
shop rents before the visitors’ book was
ready. Further “preliminary” exes.—how
much is not clear—including directors’ fees,
salaries, etc., were tacked on to the cost of
the building:—
Loss. Deficit. Loss. Deficit.
£1938 Oct., ’l6. . £B3l £8893
Apl., ’l4. . £ll5l 3089 Profit.
Oct., ’14.. 1473 4562 Apl., '17.. 884 8009
St Zl *Z X: 2546 5287
Oct., 10.. 1844 7478 Oct., ’lB.. 2623 2664
Apl., ’16.. 584 8062 Apl., ’19.. 1447 1217
i bis co. had the misfortune to get into the
hotel business at a bad time. But it had
other troubles, too. Formed early in 1912
it acquired, for £2500 in cash and 5000 fully-
paid £1 shares, a slice of City Council 50
years’ leasehold, at the doorstep of the Cen-
tral Railway Station and in the old “Paddy’s
Market” resumption area, which had already
been taken up by a building syndicate. With
a nominal capital of only £50,000 (15,000
ords. and 35,000 prefs.) it set out to erect
a modern hotel. This capital proved quite
inadequate, and a further 50,000 prefs. were
authorised. But even though 8 p.c. cumu-
lative was offered the investor was shy, and
of the 25,000 put out only one-fifth were
applied for. The directors had thus
to adopt other methods of raising the
wind; so £25,000 of 8 p.c. debentures
were offered and taken up. The only
ordinaries issued have been the £5OOO
to vendors, the rest of tin; capital of
£44,905 being 8 p.c. prefs. The inability to
get in anything like sufficient capital has
necessitated a heavy load of debt, and at
the latest balance there were mortgage
blisters on the properties for £26,000, de-
bentures for £22,420, an overdraft of £5830,
besides £4456 owing on trade accounts —
altogether £58.706, or £13,800 more than
the paid capital.
The hotel had been open only a few
months when the war upset nil calculations,
and already the- management ha 3 had an
experience of the effect of a drought on its
bookings. But if the badk-country was
parched, the Hotel Sydney was drier. The
promoters had reckoned on getting a liquor
license without much difficulty, hut after
an initial failure it took five years, a special
amendment of the Act and a fight in the
Courts before the drought was broken. So
in addition to a shortage Of guests, with con-
tinually increasing costs and expenses, the
concern until about a year ago was also
suffering the disabilities of a dry hotel. Far-
ther, the management anticipated £5OOO per
year from shop rentals, but all it could
collect last year was £2440. Gross trading
profits and all other receipts for the past
year brought in £26,473. Of this ground
rent took £2150, interest called for £4106,
management exes. £4425, general exes, and
taxes £9823. After clipping £1899 for de-
predation, there remained the £4070 shown
hy the table. The figures for the past half
were, of course, seriously affected by ’flu.
_ Just at present there are 54 years’ arrears
of divs. and the balance of accumulated
losses to make good before the slate is clean.
But the co. has to do more than pay divs.;
its lease expires in about 42 years, and pro-
vision has also to be made for the return of
capital. The foundations of a sinking fund
have apparently already been laid, but so
far the management has not been in a
position to invest the appropriations apart
from the business. And naturally the
balance-sheet does not carry a very healthy
appearance because of the heavy load of
debt. At April 30 the book value of the
hotel, plant, leases and other fixed assets
and the cost of the liquor license amounted
to £0(5,449. In liquid assets there was
£59(53. On the other side there was the
£58,70(5 of debt already mentioned, showing
an excess of liabilities over liquid assets of
£52,743. In other words, there is at present
this amount of outside money locked up in
fixed assets which has to be made good in
addition to the £44,905 of capital. Alto-
gether, after paying divs. and making neces-
sary repairs and renewals, the co. has to find
close upon £400.000 within 42 years to get
square. Assuming that it can create a
sinking fund to earn 4 p.c. net, a yearly con-
tribution of about £9(53 would be required
to be invested in soluble assets each year
to meet the total when the lease expires.
Add the £3192 required each year for ihe
profs., and allowing that the ords. should
get 10 p.c.. then average profits of about
£4050 would be required to see the co.
through, after providing for interest, .re-
newals. repairs, etc. The accounts have
shown that more than this can be earned in
unfavorable times, so the co. has a good
fighting chance under capable management.
Theatre Royal Proprietary Co. (Mel-
bourne) :
Writ-
„ ten To Re- Re-
-1 rohts. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Dec., ’ll. .£l7OO 24 p.c. = £6OO £706 £403 £lB5B
June, 12.. 1100 2$ „ „ 600 350 150 2008
Dec., ’12.. 1096 24 „ „ 600 2650
T? eserves
June, ’13.. 1580 24 „ „ 600 486 494 348
Dec., ’13.. 1775 24 ~ ~ 600 891 284 632
June, ’14.. 1539 24 ~ „ 600 450 489 1121
Dec., 14.. 1423 24 „ ~ 600 450 373 1494
June, 1447 24 „ „ 600 450 397 1891
Dec., 15.. 1799 3} „ „ 900 450 449 2340
.Dine, 10.. 1315 33 „ „ 900 300 115 2455
Dec., ’16.. 1507 33 „ ~ 900 300 307 2762
June, ’17.. 1472 3f „ „ 900 300 272 3034
Dec., ’17.. 1548 3? ~ ~ 900 300 348 3382
June,’lS.. 1611 3J ~ „ 900 300 411 3793
Dec., ’lB. . 2326 3f „ „ 900 465 961 4754
June, ’19.. 2031 5 „ „ 1200 465 366 5120
Though flu cut into Theatre Royal bookings
this co. went on collecting its rents as Usual
—more than usual, in fact, since £3809 was
got in this way during the past half,
compared with £3666 for the previous six
months, and the decrease in profits was due
solely to the management having to dip out
£335 more for income-tax. Six "months ago
this page remarked that the sinking fund
to provide for a return of capital had been
built up so rapidly that if improved profits
could be maintained shareholders might rea-
sonably hope for a slightly better return.
The directors have been considering the mat-
ter, and, while deciding to “continue a con-
servative policy,” think the position good
enough to increase the div. this half, though
the additional distribution is handed out
merely as a bonus so as not to give it an
appearance of permanency. Capital is
£45,000 and £5120 of reserves have been
accumulated after payment of the current
div. Of the £55,744 of assets £34,364 repre-
sents the present book value of leaseholds
and plant, etc., thereon. This shows the
progress which is being made in providing
against the wasting assets: —
1910. 1918. 1919.
Assets other than buildings,
freeholds, plant, etc. .. £337 £11,600 £13,831
Less liabilities . . . . 606 2,844 5,811
Excess liabilities . . £268
Surplus assets .. — : £8,756 £8,020
The outlay on alterations and improvements
to catch better rents explains why the sur-
plus is less than it was a year ago. The
lease has still about 30 years to run.
* * * *
If foresight, energy and personality will
make a success of Butler’s Tin, Torrington
(N.S.W.), Tom Hooper will achieve it. He
is most sanguine as to the prospects if he
can get a good water supply—talks about
cutting down expenses by about 40 p.c.,
about making a recovery of 1} p.c. tin oxide
pay well, and of the necessity for increasing
the crushing power by 40 stampers. There
is a chance of the water difficulty being
partly overcome by an arrangement with
Block 14 Co. for a supply from its reser-
voirs. But for the big work which Hooper
has in view the co. must sooner or later
adopt a •conservation’ scheme on Highland
Home Creek. Hooper marvels at the lack
of prospecting work. The width of the
formation has not been determined. Surface-
rooting where old-time miners were search-
ing for “bungs” indicates a wide network
of veins, but only one vein has been sunk
upon. The same thing may be said of this
formation at all points.
* * * *
“R.”: A remarkable fact in connection
with the Wyalong goldfield(B. 10/7/T9) was
that in surveyors’ adjustments of pegging-
two narrow strips were made available
which proved to be the richest patches on
the field —the Bantam, of 25 perches, separ-
ating Neeld’s from Bolte’s claims, and the
Four J. s, on the White Reef line, of 1 rood
o 5 perches. From the former 1400 oz. gold
were produced from 530 tons of ore won in
sinking a shaft 400 feet; and from the
latter 20440 z. from 431 tons. At the Ban-
the winding plant had to be erected on
a side-on block, there not being length
enough in the claim on the course of the
lode for the engine bed-plate; likewise there
was not room enough for ordinary poppet-
legs, and a gallows-frame had to be put up.
* * *. *
“D.”: Sharebroking in Perth and Ivalgoor-
lie is nowadays a poor money-making busi-
ness.. Few of the old firms in either place
survived the bursting of the booim and those
that did, except for an occasional turn-up,
such as Bullfinch and Westonia, have had a
hard time. Some have got out ot the busi-
ness altogether. An office not far from the
Palace Hotel in Perth, where I once
overheard a bear give an order to short
40,000 Boulders at £2 and 20,000 Lake
Views at £2l, is now in possession of a
barber, while another at Kalgoorlie, where
£7OO commission was netted in one day, is
a rag shop. Only one of the half-dozen
’totherside brokers who had offices in the
West in the boom days is now directly
represented.
*.* * #
The State coal-mine near Bowen (Q.)
has struck an Bft. seam at a depth of 76ft.
The coal is free of impurities, and, the
shaft being close to the railway, the develop-
ment promises to be a useful one.
“Wayth” ; Snuggling in the deep shadows
of frost-shattered Mt. Aurum, on the banks
of Skipper’s Creek (M.L.), is to be seen the
partly demolished and crumbling remains of
the old Achilles G. M. Co., one of the
pioneers of electrical transmission, and the
first mine in the world to drive its battery
by electricity. The mine was discovered
towards the end of the alluvial boom in the
early ’seventies, and was worked in a primi-
tive way for some years, eventually going
over to a strong London crowd. The mill
was up-to-date for those days, and was
driven and lit from a hydro-electric power
station, distant some three miles. Many
weird stories are told of this plant.
ILP. leaving the power plant came out
C.P. at the mill end; the generator was
partial to blue-light displays, and fre-
quently electrified the whole of the station.
Taking it., all round the installation was not
a huge success, but it payed the way to
present-day electrical mine practice.
“O.B.” : Years ago there were at least a
dozen strong and sound main lodes, besides
great and small bonanzas, at Kalgoorlie;
now only a few of the lodes remain, and
only one or two are still intact The Oroya
shoot, which yielded over five millions sterl-
ing, and whose value in its course through
the Brownliill, Brownhill Extended, Asso-
ciated Northern and Oroya was roughly
estimated at £l5OO per lineal foot, became
impoverished and went to pieces just before
it reached the Associated. The cigar-shaped
telluride bonanza in the Lake View, out of
which Callahan got over a ton of gold each
month for six months, and the bean-shaped
one known as Tetley’s, which enriched the
Associated returns for some time, both van-
ished at a few hundred feet in depth. So
also did the smaller shoot in the Boulder
Main Reef. Iyalgurli had an immense tel-
luride bulge which enabled the co. to swank
for a long time; but, like the lodes
which made the Boulder Perseverance
famous and helped South Ivalgurli to
make a show in the early days, it dis-
appeared at depth. Perhaps the most
pathetic sight on the field is the Ivanhoe
east lode, which down to about 1600 ft.
shared with the Boulder lode —now in the
Horseshoe-—the distinction of being the
finest ore body on the Golden Mile. The
great porphyry bar has left it a sorry spec-
tacle.


o
rt
#3
d
Obviera
m
/
V
J-
-?(
rn
7?g>rX T-Jg'i
w
xJK
»& . >•■’
»r
wt
V&
&
«^r->
if
tft
■*£.-%
.s-
--*r
&
t//t'A
%■
s?^
m
fA
isC.
i.^>
m
w
V.
% t
m
Ml 2
*/?
m
m
s*ws
r#
gg
OTW
ipm
vV
5?
m
4^
y
-r
ys
sue
me
m
\rgfc
5rS
sggs?2
s&
/ft * «
a?
m
-$ -
r*'
Ada
n
i 5
|/?Oo>t-
-35
CVa
£S?
hv/f/"/),
p\
r °ofU, A
r><
8£
E§
rr
mM
*%
'Xs/
gif
<*//
@8
fea
*
SB
W. 7
r^s-
C)
/
x
A
I \
LL
vA
V
s
v v..r.'-
#w\»»wy **,?•>.•- •--**•"• • •
r< -v
i
When you order Adam ax Roofing you know that no flaw will develop and a leaky
roof result.
The enviable reputation enjoyed by Adamax Roofing for so many years is due
largely to the fact that only the highest grade of long fibred felt and pure mineral
hydro-carbon are used in its manufacture.
The finishing process makes the surface impervious to the elements and makes it
jyoof against the ravages of wind, heat, cold, rain, gases, chemical mines, o clcs j
etc.
Adamax is alike the ideal roofing for Homes, Factories, Farm-buildings, etc the
roofing that costs only one-third the price of galvanised-iion.
Free descriptive pamphlet and samples sent on request.
Use UOTTOID Plaster Sheeting for
Interior Walls and Ceilings.
The use of Lottoid Plaster sheeting means real Economy, for it
is long-lasting, sanitary, hygienic, germ- and vernun-prool.
The sheets are. fire-retarding and have a clean white finish, and
arc well reinforced and interwoven with a material that gives
great strength—standing great strain and pressure.
Anv handy-man with hammer, saw and nails can lay the sheets
quickly and easily, and once laid they need practically no atten-
tion.
Write to-day for particulars and prices.
Leading Agents for N.S.W T . and Queensland.
Wm. Adams & Co. Ltd.
175 Clarence Street, Sydney.
521-3 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
95 Currie Street. ADELAIDE.
Cor. Edward 8 Mary Streets, BRISBANE.
35 King Street, PERTH.
<?'/////'
«p>. -lb.
Ifi*
<&> *;>.
St
ADA. MAX


HB
M
tDGEV/om
plug slice
--o'QC^&aa
THe
finest
TOBACCO
Will Not
Bite the
Tongue.
EDGEWORTH
Fencing Wire
GALVANISED—
No. 8 Gauge,
per ton.
No. 10 Gauge, £J£
■ per ton.
McEWAN’S,
Melbourne’s Busiest Hardware Store,
119-125 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
A Signal Success
The TOP-NOTCHScotck
ĸ
“Ragar” : Recently at Madiri, up the Fly
River (N.G.), some of the natives on the plantation
killed a 15ft. carpet-snake with a cargo of kangaroo
in his hold. He was evidently considered a titbit,
for it wasn’t long before he was cooked and eaten.
Next after “long pig” New Guinea natives prefer
the flesh of the alligator. Yams rank next, and they
are certainly good kaikai for anyone when cooked
with cocoanut milk. Then certain snakes are
favored, and after them turtle and the dugong in that
order. Plantains are only eaten cooked, as a rule,
and, like most of the bananas, they are wrapped
in a tight bundle of leaves and roots while they
mature on the tree. This gives' them a peculiar
reddish color, and the roots —sometimes bark also
is used—give a flavor that is thought a lot of by
the connoisseur. No bunch of bananas sent as a
present to any ceremonial feast would be correct
unless it had been “made proper”' in this manner.
* * * #
“Musca”: Even if the musk-duck is get-
ting scarce in N. S. Wales (B. 17/7/’l9), it is hold-
ing out well in Port Phillip. At this time of year
there are little mobs of anything up to 20 scattered
about the eastern side of the bay. Day after day
I have seen one flock of 17 working up and down
the coast at South St. Kilda, four miles from Mel-
bourne G.P.O.
* * * *
C.G. ; Can any God-fearing, non-shicker-
ing Abo. tell me what I have discovered? I am a
seekei after palaeontological data, and when grubbing
about in Silurian deposit I found three weird speci-
mens of reptilian life. They seemed to be double-
ended. Anyway, I could not see which end was
head and which was tail, though they went forward
only one way on being prodded with a stick. They
were covered on the back with a horny hide, and
had ridges of cones about -gin. high. On the belly
the hide was smooth and banded with narrow red
lines. The queer lot squirmed like snakes, and had
no legs to aid their blundering efforts to escape.
* * * *
“Billy T.”: The Amazons idea was
worked out at a Mountain settlement in Victoria
years before Pinero fastened on it. A man named
(say) Sprown settled at the top of the valley with
his newly-married wife. Presently Mrs.
Sprown let her nearest neighbor know
that little Jimmie was coming. There
was great talk of this little Jimmie, and
(Sprown bought a small axe for him before
•ie arrived. Jimmie turned up a girl;
but by this time the Sprowns had become
so accustomed to calling it Jimmie that
its right name .was wholly disregarded.
The next child was called Tom some
months in advance, but had to be chris-
tened Annie. Annie was always called
Tom. The Sprowns were quite certain
about the third, and named him Willie.
He turned out to be Susan. Seven girls
were born to the Sprowns, and in each
instance the conviction that a boy was
coming was so strong that all arrange-
ments were made for a man child. But
although his girls were all fine and hefty
and could work like tigers, Sprown’s
heart was broken. There was an interval
of a few years, and then rumors got about
that Sprown’s eldest daughter Jimmie was
“expecting.” The expected item was
called Andrew, and came into the world
an Amelia. Three years later Sprown’s
third daughter should have had a boy and
didn’t. She had a girl. At this point
the new, earnest young clergyman at the
Valley chipped in. He saw Sprown about
it. He pointed out that the Misses Sprown
were not married, and inveighed warmly
against the, informality of the whole thing.
Sprown pleaded that it wasn’t immorality.
“All the other people in the Valley have
X r axxcj Ud V,e
ft sons > f said, “and we’re bound to have one
for the credit of the family!” But they never had
* *
“S.S.S.”: Away west in Torres Strait
there’s an isle named Warrior, and a very wicked
reputation it once had for sudden death and canni-
balism. As a reward from Providence a pestilence
came that left only old Mooka the medicine-man
alive. When he in the course of time passed over
his devil (ghost) walked about on the isle, and
caused the locality to be shunned for many years.
Then a “seagull” story crept through the settle-
ments to the effect that a Frenchy had homed there
and this is his tale as a Sheller-man told it to me'
The heir to a princely house of France got into
trouble. The younger brother took the burden upon
his shoulders and, rather than have the family name
dragged in the dust, fled. He came to Torres Strait
and finding Warrior island uninhabited and prolific
built a grass house and lived there. 1 He traded
repang and turtle-shell, his colored boys taking
cargoes to Thursday Island. Meanwhile the elder
b , ro * ' e [ i was killed i n a hunting accident. On his
death-bed he was considerate enough to confess
to the crime for which his junior had exiled him-
MARKSMANSHIP.
“Had a, fine weelc-end. Went out shooting at Tom’s place.”
“Did you hit it?”
self. An uncle then set out in his yacht to find the
fugitive, and his daughter, the Countess Helene, who
had been affianced to Paul (which was the youth’s
name), sailed with him. Passing through Torres
en route to Sydney the party heard of the French
recluse who hung out on Warrior, and one evening
at sunset the yacht, very spruce and splendid, flying
the tricolor, came round the east point of the island.
A Smart little pinnace, with what seemed a naval
officer in the bows, headed for the shore. And the
recluse, thinking they had come to take him to gaol
and disgrace, stood on the threshold of his hut and
blew out his brains.
* * * «
“Senex”: Re the Vic. Government’s pine-
planting mania. If it must be pine, why not Some of
our own beautiful species? The useful and un-
approachably handsome black, putz, hoop and cypress
pines (the last the best of the natives) and the
noble kauri —all these stand frost fairly well. Let me
add white pine and the splendid pitch-pine to the list
of the Bulletin scribe who recommended sitka, yel-
low pine, etc. Pitch-pine is unequalled for ships*
masts, spars and derricks, is beautiful in grain and
strong. Years ago my dad was master of the ship
Scottish Minstrel. When she was thrown on her beam
ends off the Horn the crew had to cut away the top-
masts. Maintopmast was a specially good pitch-pine
stick, and after the shrouds were slashed it was
20 minutes before it went, despite all the weight
of topgallant and royal yards, topgallant mast, and
upper topsail yard with their gear on it, and the
ship rolling heavily. Ask any sailor what that says
for the strength of a spar.
* * * *
“The Offsider”: The possession of a line
and hooks would surely have saved the lives of
Burke and Wills. Fishing last year in a hole in
the Cooper, not far from the site of their depot, the
writer caught a hundredweight of bream and cat-
fish in the course of an afternoon. During shearing
the crowd simply inundated the cook with fish till
he cursed away further consignments. Conrick, of
Nappa Merri, told me that nardoo seed, on which
the ill-fated explorers lived during the last stages,
will finish any man. The blacks fall back on this
diet only during stiff droughts. It produces great
abdominal swelling and other complications.
* * * *
“Devilfish”: The river Tarra and the
township of Tarraville, in South Gippsland (Vie.),
had for godfather a blackfellow—perhaps the only
Binghi so honored. He was Charley Tarra, a Goul-
burn native, who guided Count Strzelecki and James
Macarthur to the top Qf Kosciusko and down through
Gippsland to Corner Inlet and on to Westernport,
and provided most of the native-bears which kept
them alive on the last part of the journey. This
was in .1840. Towards the end of the year Tarra
went to Port Albert with Brodribb, McFarlane,
McLeod and other settlers who took up land in those
parts.
“Aneb” : Where should the greatest weight
be put when' loading a four-wheeled waggon? I’ve
bought what I am told is a table-top waggon, able
to carry 10 tons: I’ve got 12 frames that think they
would like to go as a team; and I feel like having
a fly at carting during this wool season. The cove
that sold the outfit to me advised me to keep the
weight as near the alleged team as possible, “then
if yer gets bogged they can lift it out’’ I aired
this knowledge before the local furniture-remover, who
told me that I knew nothing about the higher points
of the game. A pint brought forth the information
that the weight should be put over the hind axle,
because the circumference of the hind wheels is
greater than that of the front ones, and the bigger
the circumference the easier the pull. “But,” I
said, “what about keepin’ yer load near your
draught?” “Oh,” he says, “doesn’t your tail-board
move the same time as the splashboard?” “My
waggon’s got neither,” I said. “What is it?” he
says—“a perambulator ?” Next I met a bullocky, old
and with thatch on his roof as coarse as sword-grass,
and unwound my trouble. “Oh,” he chips, “I puts
it anywhere. , So long as it’s off the ground and none
dragging, it don’t matter.” So there you are.
THE COUNTER-ATTACK.
“He say, ‘Bringa da cage for da egg. He
is about to fly.’ ”
“An’ what you tell heem, eh?”
“I say, ‘Oh, well, da egg is not so stale as
da joke!’ ”
“Wymac”: Recently Mick Ryan, a
Barcoo-Springsure (Q.) pastoraljst, consigned
14,000 sheep to Homebush (N.S.W.) saleyards.
Travelling ahead of drovers, the woollies reached
Comet (Q.) and were trucked and railed the
remainder of the journey; and the full tally were
penned at Homebush after the 1070-mile railway
trip. Good luck or good management ?
(Continued on page 26.)
THE SPIRIT OF THE WEST.
[For The Bulletin.]
Last night, though seeking slumber,
I could not sleep nor rest;
For 10, with tones enthralling,
I heard you calling, calling,
O Spirit of the West!
Old memories then I rescued
From moth and mould and rust,
Though long ago I met you,
I shall not all-forget you,
Till dust return to dust.
You are not plain nor river,
Nor are you rocks and trees ;
You are not wind and weather —
All these you are together,
And you are more than these.
Whoso has felt your presence
In' dreams pale solitude,
Lore brooding by dull embers,
Rc-visions and remembers
The gleams he once pursued.
He goes once more a-roving
On Fancy’s wings upborne,
And, in the wind that passes
Among the shaken grasses,
He hears you night and morn.
He sees again some camp-fire
Red-burning on a plain
Where you, he knows, were present,
While in the west, a crescent,
The new moon promised rain.
In hut and shed and homestead,
In camp and yard and stall,
Though veiled to mortal seeing,
You dwell and have your being,
Pervading, toning all..
THE CASUALTY.
“Stuck ’is ’ead over the parapet, did ’e?
Dear, dear, I should have thought that’d
he the last thing he’d do.”
“It tvere, sir.”
You are the grey of saltbush
Unstirred at end of day,
And you are starshine gleaming
On gum and mulga, dreaming
The quiet hours away.
The lonely traveller knows you;
He feels that you inform
All things that have existence—
Wide skies and weary distance,
Calm, mirage-lights and storm.
The hush of sleeping cattle
In grasses wet with dew ;
Dead men with upturned faces
In weird untrodden places—
All these are one with you.
He sees you in the sunset
And in the dawn rose-dyed ;
And hears you in the crying
Of swan and ibis flying
At fall of eventide.
You are his dream, his splendor,
His vision, lure and quest;
You are his mood that ponders
On God and all His wonders,
O Spirit of the West!
N.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.


Latest “Bookstall” Successes
During the war period, despite all publishing difficulties, the N.S.\\.
Bookstall Go., Ltd., maintained its output of Australian fiction in its
famous
“Bookstall” Series of
Australian Shilling Novels.
At times the cost of paper was almost prohibitive, hut the Company
continued accepting the output of Australian authors and charged the
Public no more for the printed volumes. During recent months an
increased number of unusually good novels have been offered the Pub-
lishers, and since the “Bookstall” policy is to keep pace with the output
of Australian authors there have recently been numerous
IMPORTANT ADDITIONS TO THE SERIES.
11- each
ALL ONE
■ PRICE
—ljli Posted.
ALL BOOKSTALLS
and BOOKSELLERS.
‘The Coral Queen”
‘ White Savage Simon ”
4 Sally: The Tale of a Currency
4 Red Mountain ”
4 The Outlaw’s Daughter ”
4 The Mount Marunga Mystery
‘Aladdin and the Boss Cockie”
4 Da vn Asper ”
‘The Squatter’s Ward”
4 Yellow Silver ”
By Beatrice Grimshaw
By Beatrice Grimshaw
Ltfctss * *
By J. H. M. Abbott
By Jack McLaren
By Arthur Wright
By Harrison Owen
By Randolph Bedford
By Broda Reynolds
By Edward S. Sorenson
By Edward Meryon
These are 10 first-class novels in a fiction series including over 100
volumes. That they provide what tjie Australian reader wants is
demonstrated by the fact that
Over 2,000,000 copies have been actually solfl.
WRITE FOR A COMPLETE CATALOGUE.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL GO. LTD.,
476 George Street, SYDNEY.
uahanJ(^^^-
>
%
m
2 inch inlay
of material /.
Split sleeve
J Sleeve
r Notice the
Set of cuff
The
Shirt
1016
The
Shirt
(3 for 30/6).
Made by and only
obtainable from
The Leviathan.
Tested and proved by the
Public “TAFFATWILF”
Shirts wear as well as they
look, and keep their dis-
tinction to the last thread.
TAFFATWILL” lias tlie appearance of the most beautiful
wool Taffeta, obtainable in black, blue or grey striped
effects on rich cream grounds.
“TAFFATWILL” Shirts are made in three styles of Cuffs
—Stiff, Soft-Double or Wristbands, fitted with “Split
Sleeves,” “Sleeve Lifts,” reinforced inlay fronts. Sizes
l3in. to 18in. neckbands.
rx
cs
G
ORDER BY POST. WE PAY CARRIAGE.
State Size of STIFF Linen Collar Worn.
m t*c
Leviathan
Corner Swanston & Bourke Streets, MELBOURNE
m
&
mSn
Large Copper Matte Ladle Tor Mt. Lyell Copper Reduction Works
COPPER and IRON
ORE REDUCTION
WORKS.
Matte and Slag Ladles*
Blast Furnace Jackets -
All Classes of Steel Castings for Gears, Trucks, &c., and
Mining and General Engineering.
Send your INQUIRIES with DRAWINGS and Full Particulars to the MANUFACTURERS:
CHAS. RUWOLT PTY. LTD.,
Victoria Street, Richmond, VICTORIA.
Agents for New South WaIes—ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO., Circular Quay East, Sydney, N„‘*S. Wales.
Agents for Queensland— AUSTRALIAN MACHINERY COMPANY LIITITED, Mary Street, Brisbane.sQueensland.


PERMANENCE
PERMANENT
TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W. LTD.
The logical trustee and executor for the man of affairs,
offering immunity from such risks as death of trustee,
misappropriation of funds or mismanagement of estate.
The Company cannot die, travel or disappear. It is
always open for advice to interested persons.
Owing to the great amount of business under its control
the Company’s fees are very moderate. A special feature
of the Company’s service is that Corpus Commission is not
charged till after estate becomes distributable, thus effect-
ing a considerable saving of income.
A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
J. W. Barnes, Assistant Manager. Write, for literature.
25 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
“Merops”: “Billy T.” (B. 26/6/T9) is
mistaken in stating that lyre-birds make noises nearly
all night like “cries of victims of assault with
violence.” He has evidently heard the monkey-bears
screaming. They do this at times both day and
night. The she bear does the screaming and rhe
male the “guttural rows” —very human-like. The
lyre-bird does not make any outcry from dark till
daylight. He certainly does ,a final song before
going to sleep, and gives a repetition at daylight. I
spent years in the Gippsland ranges, where there
were hundreds of the birds, but never heard them
after dark. The lyre, though the best mimic we
have, cannot do the monkey-bear scream well enough
to deceive an experienced bushman.
“Red Gum” : Those who, with “McNorth”
(B. 2G/6/’l9), are interested in checkmating the
cobra-worm may be interested to know that I have
produced an Australian-grown oil which will enable
luggers up north to defy the enemy. The oil is the
product of a bush plant from which emanates an
insidious, musky odor. Many mineral oils which
might check the cobra set up an injurious reaction
when applied to wood. The vegetable oil in ques-
tion promises to prove a timber preservative, and
it is not so excessively volatile as turpentine. In-
cidentally, the growing of the plant may, if all
goes well, provide many Billjim settlers with a de-
sirable side-.line. The writer is at present in com-
munication with the Bureau of Science and Industry
relative to the matter.
* * * »
“Gecko”: The platypus, like the beaver.
uses his trowel-fiat tail to pug up the subway as a
barrage against natural enemies—-carpet-snakes,
monitors, etc. 1 have unearthed during the rutting
season platypi in their nests that have blocked rhe
tunnel in three separate places. How the animal
breathes while sealed up in a nesting-chamber is
still occupying my attention. There was no trace
of ventilation holes anywhere that I could find.
“Ragar”: Recently I called at Darnley
Island to recruit natives for the bfiche-de-mer boats,
and found the superintendent, or Gumment teacher,
as he is called, on the roof of Gumment House with
a pudding-bowl in one hand and a table-knife and
some lint in the other. He explained that he was
mending some of the numerous holes that had rusted
through the corrugated iron. His method was to
soak a strip of lint in liquid cement and place it
over the hole, and then dust dry cement over the
patch. Seeing that I was rather sceptical, he came
down and showed me three corrugated-iron tanks
which had been mended in a dozen places in the
same way. The poultices, which ranged from the
size of a postage-stamp to the size of my hand, were
all below water-level, and perfectly dry. I found
that he had repaired scores of leaks in the roof, and
that in one place in the guttering where the bottom
had rusted away for the best part of a foot he had
bridged the hole with wire and then laid his cement
poultice over it. It \vas a first-rate job. Apropos
of roofs, it wouldn’t damage the reputation of the
Queensland Government to sec that its servants are
A GESTICULATORY BUSINESS.
Cohenstein : “Hotv’th hithneth, Ilcey ?”
Ikey : “Thplendid! Keepth me and me two
liandth going all the time.”
properly housed. There are superintendents on
several of the islands, and their houses, built of
corrugated iron, are utterly unsuitable for the
climate, some 10 degrees from the equator. The
rooms are small and low: they are little better than
ovens in the north-west season and colanders when it
rains.
“Luke Hout”: Have read a deal about
kindly and abounding bush hospitality ; but have seen
very little of it in actual practice. It may abound
for politicians, parsons and drummers, but for such
as drovers, rabbit-trap manipulators and swag Bo-
hemians of varied sorts, the supply is exceedingly
hard to locate. Travelling in a utility turnout, be-
tween Grenfell and Forbes (N.S.W.), some seasons
HIS LUCK.
Staff-Officer: “11 here is your unit? What are you doing here?”
Digger: “I’m crook. I ’ad to fall out three times."
Staff-Officer: “Just as tveil you’re not in the Flying Corps!’’
back, after the drought had been breaking some
considerable time and no firm land could be descried
in the wilderness of slush, I encountered a potentate
of that part astride a comfortable prad. I asked
him if I -could shelter in his sheds. “Well, you
could,” said he, “only I got a lot o’ super, an’
lime stacked in there, and you travellers always lets
the rain an’ air in on it; but you can sleep inside
the fence if you don’t break down the wires.” He
then cantered off, his Shoulders rolling with enjoy-
ment of the joke. For a while I stood in the
drizzle. Then, with courage born of desperation, I
took the old horse out of the mixture of shafts,
wire and harness, deposited him through the fence
on to dry land, and, leaving the derelict cart, I lit
out for civilisation and Christians as fast as I could
swim.
* * * »
“Edclyson”: When Conway lost Bally he
was convinced there had been foul play. All the
rest of the team came swinging up from the paddock
on the Monday morning, but Bally
failed to put in an appearance,
and a diligent search threw no
light on the mystery. When two
weeks passed and there was still
no sign of Bally, Conway began
to talk in a bloodthirsty way
about the fiendish things he was
going to do to the man who had
stolen the star of his incompar-
able team. At this stage one of
Coltman’s boys went to the be-
reaved teamster with word that
his lost “cow” would be found
in a small yard masked with
boughs at the back of Brand’s
hut. Brand was a hatter settled
on a holding at Three Creeks, a
rather morose, wholly uncom-
municative Scot with 30 years’
“colonial” experience. Conway,
backed by three residfnts, went
cut to Brand’s selection, and there
was Bally sure enough, embittered
by long- detention in a yard that
was little more than a shed.
Brand faced the accuser, sullen
and silent. He maintained a re-
sentful attitude as Conway fished
his beast out, and prepared to de*
part, piling threats and abuse on
the cattle-duffer. Suddenly Con-
way ceased his recrimination.
“What in ’ellenall you wanted
him for beats me,” he said in a
changed tone. “You didn’t work
him, you couldn’t sell him. What
did you want him for?” Brand
kicked up a tuft of turf. Conway
insisted: “What in the devil’s name did you keep
that old bullock for?” “Mon,” replied Brand, “I’ll
tell you the gorstruth—l jest kept him for com-
pany!”
» * * »
“Trap”: Re “Pick’s” assertion (B.
17/7/’l9) that the “angora rabbit” cannot be
trapped. I trapped two of the little animals, one
in the Stony Ranges near Joyce’s Creek (Vic.) and
the other at Natte-Yalloek, on the Avoca River
(Vic.). Both were taken in the open well away
from any burrow, the traps being set on the “run”
or path. These bunnies were known to local
trappers as “French rabbits,” and they tallied with
“Pick’s” description of angoras, except that, neither
had a white face and ears. They were a dull blue
or slaty color, even to the eyes, the shade being
uniform throughout, except that it was a degree
lighter on the belly. The ears, instead of being stiff
as in. the ordinary rabbit, were inclined to droop
down on either side of the head like the ears of a
spaniel. As they were so scarce (the two mentioned
being the only specimens we met with during several
years) we regarded them as freaks of nature.
“Karaji” : There is no foundation for the
statement by “E.S.S.” (B. 3/7/’l9) that the dingo
dates back to tlhe Pliocene, except Prof. McCoy’s
opinion, which was not backed by fossil remains.
Our only dog has, however, ancestors who roamed
the Australian bush when the huge diprotodon and
the extinct Titan kangaroo fed peacefully on the
marshy plains and the Tasmanian devil and wolf
made the nights uncomfortable for the smaller mar-
supials. Those animals have not been traced further
back than the post-Pliocene, nor have the remains
of the dingo ever been found in strata of earlier
age. As he did not extend to Tasmania, he must
have arrived in Southern Victoria after the laud-
bridge to Tasmania was broken. The highest tribute
to his antiquity is paid by C.- M. Woodford, the
author of “A Naturalist Among the Head-hunters,”
who states:—
I think that the dingo is probably the progenitor
of the domestic dog of all the Pacific islanders.
“McNorth” : Black sister of Torres Strait
is a weaver of dilly-bags, mats and baskets
of considerable quality. The material chiefly used
is a species of lalang, a broad-bladed grass found
in great quantities on the fringes of swamps and
jungles. The vegetable is sun-bleached, split fine
and twisted into threads. Some of the weaving is
as close as that of the best Panama, and variety
of pattern is not wanting. Colored strands are
made by means of ochre, by smoking over a fire
of green wood, or by soaking in water in which
pieces of iron have rusted. The last process gives
a brownish effect and is the most lasting. There
was an old gin on York Island who was a wonder-
ful weaver. Although she had been almost blind
for many years, she would sit all day in the shade
of the she-oaks making dilly-bags' that were as
pliable as a blanket. Her work was in much
demand for its faithful construction and lasting
qualities, and her designs were intricate and deli-
cate. I suppose the art will begin to die out soon,
for already much of the time of the young women
is taken up in planning schemes for new dresses
and dolling themselves up all-same white missus.
* * * *
“Erl Jus”: Re cultivation of saltbushes
on commercial lines and charges of neglect by State
Agricultural Departments made by “Gleniris” (B.
5/6/’l9). Experiments were conducted at the State
Experimental Farm, Coolabah (N.S.W.), some 12 oi-
ls years ago to ascertain the fodder-value of salt-
bushes. The tests were over a period of 21 months,
during which time sheep were fed entirely on salt-
bush. The final report stated:—
The sheep have altered very much since they were
taken to the farm, and the wool has grown smaller
in the fibre and shows a sfcorter and weaker staple
without any increase in quality to make up for the
loss in weight. They have not grown the frame they
would running on natural pastures.... the experiment
proves that sheep can be kept alive, on saltbush
only, for considerable time, possibly for long
enough to tide over a severe period of dry weather,
and probably at less cost than by expensive means
o. artificial feeding. The experiment has also shown
that saltbush can be grown at little cost—at less
cost than any other fodder—-in a very dry time, and
is practically drought-resisting.
This sums up the - position fairly clearly, and points
to saltbush being a very valuable fodder in droughty
periods. In normal seasons, when natural pasture
is available, stock do not eat saltbush to any great
extent. The vegetable could then be cut and stored
as hay. The arid interior of Australia is better
provided with saltbush than the Northern Territory,
with its heavy rainfall, which is how things should be.
It therefore seems that the commercial cultivation
of saltbushes should be confined to those arid districts
and alkaline soils (with less than 10 inches rainfall'
in which natural grasses cannot be properly estab-
lished. As far as the AVimmera is concerned, since
the rainfall is fair, provision for droughty periods
would be more profitably made by conserving cereal
and similar crops as hay. The heaviest-yielding salt-
bushes belong to the genus A triplex, of which the
variety Semibaccata has been successfully introduced
from here into California, and two cuttings of 20
tons each have been obtained in one season from one
acre. The Rfiagodia and Kochia genera are much
less numerous and much smaller than the Atriplex,
and are therefore not of such economic importance.
The Rhagodias are mostly found in coastal and table-
land districts, and do not thrive in the interior.
* * * *
‘ Titus Tombstone” : Some Abo.-quack in
Tub Bulletin prescribed the sniffing of water
through the nostrils as a preventive of colds. Gave
it a fair trial. Result, acute tonsilitis. Here is
something better. Roll a cigarette, impregnate it
with half a dozen drops of eucalyptus, and light up.
This will deal a knock-out to any ordinary cold
if taken when the first symptoms appear. It also
makes a cool, palatable smoke.
* ■" •* *
“Mellish Reef”: Rivalry existed between
the Auki and Langa Langa (Solomon Islands), both
salt-water tribes, so an ex-mission boy wrote on
behalf of his Auki brethren:—
Dear Subarcaco [supercargo],—We want to tell
you one thing we altogether Auki boy we want to
work along' steamers we 51 boy, but altogether
Lanalana boy they want to stop us 100. But we
altogether Auki boy we come first time along
Makambo to with the steamer will we must go along
steamer first time too. Because we altogether Auki
boy we no come all time along steamers this why
we want to come aloung this month. Now we want
you to tell altogether Lana-lana boy they wiat for
nex time when steamer ye come. We fallar Auki
boy we work along steamer we no want to talked
to much along white man. This letter ye no from
any master or from any goverment ye from we
altogether black boy because steamer ye not belong
altogether. Lanalana boys no more ye belong every-
body. This why we want to work along steamer this
treaver [trip], altogether Lanalana boy they say you
want them no more only, suppose we Auki boys we
work ye just same as they work ; now then suppose
you tell them to wiat for nex time when steamer
ye come ye more better pleased dear brother Subar-
caco if you do that for us.—From Auki Boy.
They got the job.
* * * *
, “E. Dith”: A small flat-bottomed punt
had been smeared outside with tar, which was
much too thick, and then put into a barn, bottom
upwards. In the morning we found a live snake
with a dead rat a few inches from its nose glued
to the bottom of the gondola. The rat had fcvidently
jumped from the rafters with the snake after it.
The former seemed to have struggled a bit, but
there was no indication of the snake having shifted
a fraction of an inch after it had lobbed. Its eyes
were the only part of it that could move when we
found it.
A GENTLEMAN TO THE LAST.
“Pardon me, madam —ladies first."


m
M
*]■*
t
y
mm
tax?
ADVANCE
.
There’s Going to be no Slump
Avoid the Slump that Threatens
mm
if Australians will wake up to the necessity of a re-adjustment of our industrial and
home life. The pre-war conditions are gone—the fictitious prosperity of the 1914-19 <5
war period is on the wane, and entirely new conditions have now to be laced.
No narrow-minded policy will solve our present industrial and social problems.
There’s one solution, and one only —
Greater Efficiency and Production
backed up by an amicable compromise between capital and labor—in fact, co-operation
for social and industrial prosperity. Australian capital will have to produce more of our
necessities, and Australian workers will have to do their share of bringing down costs-
by greater production.
But these efforts will fail unless backed up by
the support of every Australian who has any
consideration for the welfare of his or her country.
You must realise that increased output-hence lower prices-can only follow a call for
more Australian-made goods. Increased manufacture means that more workers will
immediately be needed. At present, this is the best avenue for absorbing our surplus
labor providing permanent employment for our returned soldiers, and also to help to
bring about the transition from the present troubled period to times of prosperity and
contentment. Let strikes, friction and provocation give place to efficiency by al,
and the time will soon come whki employers and employees will materially benent
from Australia’s increased industrial prosperity and progress.
The immediate help of all citizens is urgently
needed at this critical stage in Australia’s
national life.
Home Industries must be supported not intermittently but continuously. Every
Australian manufacturer is entitled to preference over imported goods Let you
and your family always buy goods bearing the trade mark of Australian manu-
facturers with a reputation for value and fair dealing. We-the Dunlop Rubber Co.
can employ thousands more hands, if increased support is forthcoming for the
following Dunlop Goods
Motor Tyres
Cycle Tyres
Vehicle Tyres
Ebonite Goods
Rubber Heels €) Soles
Waterproof Garments
Inlaid Matting, etc.
Engineering Requisites
Hoses—Garden, Engineering, etc.
Mil King Machine Requisites
Driving Belts
Mining Goods
Sporting Goods
Tennis Balls
Conveyor Belts
Plumbers’ Goods
and furthermore, we pledge our word that the greater the output the lesser will be the
price charged the public for these goods, for as before stated— we do not base our
prices on tariff duty, but on cost of production.
This is one instance where your co-operation will advance the welfare ot this
country, and there are hundreds of others. Will you henceforth give your loyal support
to Australian industries, and
DUNLOP RUBBER CO
(Founders of the Pneumatic Tyre Industry)
All States
and New Zealand.


0
t COLDS
COUCHS
0
CROUP
LUNG
TROUBLES
CHEST
AFFECTIONS
W
V 3
0
<u
Some Coughs take a lot of “shaking off”
—generally several bottles of the ordinary
cough mixtures; but the worst and most
obstinate cough will disappear like magic
if treated with
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
Under the influence of this super-remedy
the improvement is immediate.
W. G. HEARNE & Co. Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street,
SYDNEY.
wonder of it all. No fine sample of metal-
work was produced after the Anglo-Norman
invasion.
Irish architecture did not develop early,
The people were not builders in stone, did
not live in castles, and even their early
churches were not of a permanent character.
True, the great hall of Tara was enormous.
According to Petrie, who accurately
measured the ruins, it was 760 feet long by
90 feet broad; but it was built of upright
timbers and a kind of clay stucco. Gorgeously
colored and decorated and surrounded by
many lesser buildings, it was no doubt a
remarkable object on the hilltop, but no
one has ever pretended that it had archi-
tectural pretensions. An Irish Romanesque
style did, however, develop earlier than in
England, of which many beautiful examples
exist. There are no examples of it which
were erected later than the Anglo-Norman
conquest.
Of recent years England has boasted of
many improvements in Irish land-laws and
the like. Ireland hungered for bread : but
how should such a nation live by bread
alone? The early artistic development is
proof that the country under the rule- of its
own people was far more settled and pro-
gressive than any English historian has been
willing to_ admit. In spite of Kipling’s
shallow quip that
Where there are Irish there’s bound to be fighting,
And when there’s no fighting it’s Ireland no more,
the internal evidence shows that the fighting
was not constant enough nor intense enough
to prevent artistic development until Eng-
land entered the field. Then began the
murder of all things of good report. What
has repentant modern England done to atone
for her sins of the past against a nation’s
soul ? Instead of doing anything it is,
through its government of Ireland, con-
tinuing the exact policy which destroyed so
much in the past. Take this passage from
a modern Irish writer:
Will it be believed that the Board of National
Education insists upon the Irish-speaking child start-
ing out from the first moment to learn to read a
language it does not speak It is forbidden to be
taught one syllable of Irish... .Advantage is taken
of nothing that the child knew before.... and the
result is appalling. Bright-eyed, intelligent chil-
dien, second in intelligence, I should think, to none
in Europe, with all the traditional traits of a
people cultured for 1500 years, children endowed
wntj« a rwhnt b ti, i L r V.,.jm everyda f. , use of ab ° ut 3do °
not more thaif sooj enter the schoors the* Chief
Commissioner, to come out at the end with all their
natural vivacity gone, their intelligence almost
eompletelv sapped, their splendid command of their
native language lost for ever, and a vocabulary of
five or six hundred Englash words, badly pronounced
and barbarously employed. This they will in their
turn transmit to their children, while everything
they knew on entering the school — story, lay, poem,
song, aphorism, proverb, the unique stock-in-trade of
an Irish-speaker’s mind—is gone forever and replaced
vain?°on : Tli mw Sftata
tem; and the more I have looked and inquired the
it be an unacknowledged political one.
So the reason Ireland wants to govern
herself is not merely an economic one re-
lating to rent and the potato crop. The
deeper and truer reason is that there won’t
be any real Ireland to govern by anybody
}f the soul-murder of the nation at the
bands of England goes on. Is it so remark-
able that under the goad of that thought
Irishmen will even take up arms in the
maddest of mad rebellion as their last pro-
test against a poisonous system which Eng-
ian(j uses without understanding?
P.O’M.
. .
The New Missing Link
j s not so long since Darwin and his
theory of the evolution of man made a stir;
an( j there was a sudden check to the old
habit of uncovering the family tree for ex-
hibition to visitors, lest some of the oldest
branches might be found to bear evidence
of a skilfully concealed tail. Darwin’s ideas
weren’t new, of course; Aristotle, 300 years
or so before the Christian era, had similar
ideas. But in the “Origin of Species” Dar-
win brought it all to a head, and Huxley
and Haeckel carried on the work,
Now the smouldering fires have blazed up
in another direction. Professor Frederick
Wood-Jones, who directs anatomical studies
at London University, is responsible. In a
recently-delivered lecture on The Problem
of Man's Ancestry, he declared that, while
the theory of evolution is quite all right,
we have got it the wrong way round. What
he says is that man is more primitive than
the monkey, and that, instead of man being
the ape’s descendant, he may be looked upon
as the monkey’s ancestor. In support of his
theory that the ape is a degenerated branch
of the human stock, he evidences the cir-
cumstance amongst others that at no stage
is the human foot, white or black, a true
monkey’s or ape’s foot—witness the tailed
creature’s third toe, which is the longest,
Further, he challenges Haeckel’s teaching
that a human embryo cannot he distin-
guished from that of an anthropoid ape
until the fourth or fifth month, and points
out certain characteristics which are estab-
Usher! in the verv earliest st-io-es
lisaea , m , ttle very. earliest stages,
But of special interest to Australians is
his reference to the Talgai skull, discovered
on the Darling Downs (Q.) in 1884, but
only properly described last year by Dr. S.
A. Smith, of Sydney. Taking it as contem-
Poraneous with the pouched fauna of Aus-
tralia, and with huge species now extinct,
Wood-Jones points out that this non-
pouched trespasser, together with his dog,
remains of which have been also found, must
bav „ vp . l ln bi „ hn<lt . „ nfl in
aave arrived in ms boat, ana bioken in
u P o]a tlie .Pouched inhabitants at a very re-
mOte period. With his domesticated dog
he must have brought his own wife, a few
boomerangs, food and water for the trip,
} vMch w< > ul ? be len «{ So “ e “ ore f or
ess legulai ideas of a distinctly W estern
totem system. He must have been an
expert boat-builder, too.
The main point of the discovery is that
“this Talgai man was a navigator of oceans
and an owner of domestic dogs at a period
when, only a short time ago, no scientific
man would have admitted his existence as
a zoological type.” In other words, he was
a human being at a time when he ought to
have been sporting a tail and swinging from
branch to branch!
Professor Wood-Jones’s theories open up
altogether new channels of thought. How
long does it take, for example, the descend-
ants of a castaway on some out-of-the-way
island to produce the more or less useful
appendage and the long third toe? For the
cartoonist, there is quite a fresh field of
ideas. The visitor to the zoo, as he proffers
the imported nut, will no longer smile com-
placently, and. patting himself on the back,
exclaim “See how we have advanced!” but
will wonder what old family name the grin-
ning occupant of the cage might lay claim
to. Up in New Guinea there is said to be
a tribe of people who still wear tails. In
my island home I have met several visitors,
speeding south, who claimed to have seen
them personally and who vouched for the ac-
curacy of their statement that these people,
when sitting down, have first to excavate a
small hole in which to comfortably place
the appendage. Will this be taken as evi-
dence that at one time a much more highly
civilised race occupied those parts?
At any rate, in our search for the Miss-
ing Link, it may hereafter be possible to
discard our former conception of the weird
creature of the artist’s imagination, such
as a man might run across after two glasses
of “pinky,” and, taking Wood-Jones as our
guide, search for some good-looking small
animal as the ancestor of the human stock.
Nor must we forget the dog.
W. H. M.
The Modern Newspaper
Average readers do not want instruction,
abstract theories, facts on which to base new
inferences, or judicial judgments on events,
but an extension of what they gain from
friends and acquaintances: gossip, • tittle-
tattle, items of twaddle that make the con-
versation in clubs, train and boat and over
the. tea table. The leading article, critical
review and short story shrink or disappear;
often the only lengthy matter tolerated is
feckless speculation about the chances of
certain horses in a coming race, the new
shapes in ladies’ .rags, or the salacious details
of divorce cases. These results are trace-
able to compulsory schooling. When the
only readers were those with a natural liking
for it, literary effort had a general appeal;
but. when the limited in perception are drawn
to it the printed page must respond or be
unread; following the law that, to please a
crowd, one jnust appeal to the least intelli-
gent, for then all understand. An example
of the same law is the compulsion of most
workers to become unionists for Arbitration
Court purposes. This has diluted the once
intelligent Labor party to the mental level
of infants ; and compulsory voting in Queens-
land will have like results. For this is a
law: you cannot successfully impose even
beneficent ideas on others, every organism
having to learn by personal effort to save
its own soul.
Biologist.
A Satchel of Books
The Inferno, by Henri Barbusse, is described as
having gone through 100 editions in French before
being translated into English. Yet it is a dull
•i*. for s °gl?y degenerates. Anybody has some
nght to be a degenerate if he justifies himself even
half as brilliantly as Oscar Wilde did. But to be
soggy is a crime. The hero of the book is a short man
With green eyes, aged 30, who has come to Madame
lodgers s boarding-house at Paris because he has
got a job in a bank. As the institution is never
mentioned again it has nothing to do with the storv.
He is introspective in the sense that he stands in
his faded Todgers room and asks his unimportant
self such questions as: “Am I happy?” “Am I
afraid to die?” “Am I superfluous?” Then he
finds a hole in the partition, and being no gentle-
man he sperds the rest of the volume intruding
on his neighbors’ privacy. At different times as
the Todgers come and go he sees and hears a great
many things that don’t concern him and are of
little interest to anybody else. The remarks he
heais are mostly about love and are made by people
who throw no new light on the subject. In every
city there are informal societies of voung persons
who have heard that it is picturesque to be
Bohemian without knowing in the least how to start,
and who meet occasionally and converse in scraps
of poor French, and prod scrappy tunes out of a
piano. They and their kind revel laboriously in
(ho Barbusse kind of book as a matter of duty,
like unballasted ships overcome with mirth in
SHa ’ and they nall those who don’t like it
Philistines”—Heaven knows why, for the Philis-
tines were the only unconventional people in their
parts. But it is very dull. (Boni and Liveright,
New York.)
Pink Roses, by Gilbert Cannan (T. Fisher Unwin).
The young man in this story was a youth-about-
town when the war flag was unfurled, and he and
his two mates hopped to an enlisting depot in Lon-
don. The young man was passed out by the doc-
tors. He • became what the old medicoes—the old
medicoes who went into the scranhean after 1914
would have diagnosed as “morbid.” The real trouble
was that he had what the bookstall man said to the
lady who inquired if he had “The Patient Camel.”
“No, madame; but I’ve got the bloomin’ hump!”
This fellow mooched about—he could afford to mooch
about. Then he fell in with the Lady of the Pink
Roses. She was fed up of her profession, became
officers on leave and a bit rattled “expected too much
from a girl.” Anyway, he had a soft voice, and she
collected him and was dashed good to him. They
stood each other for a year, and then the Lady
of the Pink Roses went back to a rich Jew customer
who made her sick, but splurged cheques. It was a
pity, because she was a good girl—all things con-
sidered.
The Inky Way
“Alan Byron”: Any attempt to find
analogies between the poetry and the fiction
of a nation is founded upon a fallacy. To
say that “Australia’s poetry is excellent, and
therefore it is inexplicable why her prose is
so feeble,” is like saying that Jones is a
marvel at billiards, and therefore it is inex-
plicable why he is such a duffer at draughts.
Still, no honest Australian will deny that we
are rather weak in fiction; but that is
because we are still evolving our medium.
“Jean Sibi”: Germany has lost Frank
Wedekind, its naturalistic dramatist. Best
known in English-speaking countries for the
fantastic terror of “Spring’s Awakening,”
Wedekind plumbed the depths of super-
sexualism in several other curious plays.
His duet, “Pandora’s Box” and “The Earth
Spirit,” produced together under the title
of “Lulu,” will remain a classic study of
female degeneracy. “Music” is less' un-
healthy drama, and the description of a
tepid but rather heartless seduction is dis-
tinguished by a craftsmanship wherein his
irony and emotions compete for the mastery
of his pen. In his final period Wedekind
drifted from the erotic to the esoteric, and
his whole life became a bundle of whims.
Gaoled for leso-majeste, he afterwards ap-
peared in cabarets and vaudeville houses,
in which hik eccentricity could have been
capitalised to produce a steady income.
Contemptuous of commercial success, how-
ever, _he took to touring himself and his
wife in his greatest achievements, and again
was the victim of a deplorable popularity.
Considered without prejudice, he was an
extraordinary artist who, despite all his
interest to an inspector of nuisances, gave
the usually sedate idiom of Munich a momen-
tum that doubled the power of his prose.
Moreover, beneath his cynicism and bitter
banter there is a deep feeling of pity for
human error. 1 Even in the sour realism of
his brothels you feel that his vinegar is
mixed with tears. Yet, according to con-
ventional canons, Wedekind was a perfect
humbug, who died in the odor of domestic
sanctity.
Randolph Bedford writes:—
C. J. Dennis on copyright (B. 3/7/’l9) ap-
parently does not know that the first Commonwealth
and Australian-made Copyright Act gave Australian
writers the protection he seeks, and that a made-
in-England Amending Act took it from them. Sena-
tor Keating introduced and passed his Australian
Copyright Act in 1905 ; it contained a local manu-
facturing section similar in purport to that of the
U.S.A., insisting on local setting up and printing as
a condition of copyright. That stood as law 1905-
10. In 1910 the British Parliament, inspired by
the Australian Act, codified its copyright law, and
graciously intimated that its new measure was
adoptable by the Commonwealth and the Dominions
with or without modifications. The Fisher Govern-
ment rushed the British Act, with its Freetrade
omission of the local-manufacturing clause. Keat-
ing saw his baby being strangled; but he was one
of five against 13, and all he could do was to get
the debate adjourned again and again. Finally the
British Act was adopted, though the minority man-
aged to save the more radical features of the Keat-
ing Act of 1905, for the protection of Australian
authors, but not the vital section enforcing local
publication. So we stand where Britain is in copy-
right so far as outside countries are concerned.
From 1905 to 1912 we were in advance; then we
moved back in the good old Freetrade way. Pend-
ing the amendment of the law to the old protection
we can still rectify by arrangement with the
U.S.A. But only the re-enactment of the 1905 Bill
can give absolute protection.
“Veronal”: The pioneer book about the
birds and beasts of Jhese parts was White’s
‘‘Journal of a Voyage to N. S. Wales,” pub-
lished about 1790, and containing over 00
curious copper-plate, engravings. The fiae
old book is sometimes procurable, attired in
“half-blue Morocco,” at about £4, or with
the plates hand-colored at about £7. The
latter edition is very rare.
“Brod’s” gossip about Australian artists
in London :—■
C. H. Percival and H. W. Wollcott, two young
Digger artists, have been commissioned by the
A.I.F. War Records Section to paint a number of
war pictures, and they are getting busy in Chelsea.
This is another feather in the cap of Julian Ashton,
as they both studied under him. Percival also had
the good fortune to be billeted with Arthur Streeton
while he was with the Diggers in France.
A son of artist Tom Roberts got so into the habit
of fixing bayonets that, as soon as the call came
for volunteers for North Russia, he grabbed his gun
and is now helping to tame the Red Demon.
Australia has had many official artists with the
Diggers; but the unofficial artist-combatant who took
his art seriously has been very rare. Corporal C.
W. Bostock, who was with the Australian Field
Artillery, is at present exhibiting at the Camera
Club Studio a set of 54 water-colors, all of them
painted while he was on active service, and some of
them while he was under fire. His gun-pit was his
studio, and his artist’s material was carried in his
haversack. The energetic Digger is from Sydney,
and was engaged on commercial art work before he
heard the call.
“Otira”: Maoriland pressmen continue to
seek separate awards in the four large
centres. Recently the Wellington Journal-
sts’ Union secured a new award by confer-
ence with the employers, an agreement being
made under which reporters are to be paid
from £7 7s. down to £5 17s. Gd. per week;
juniors and other lower-deck hands less.
Auckland pressmen, who went to the Arbi-
tration Court recently, got £7 10s. for seniors
and £6 for generals.
“Veva B.” (London) : Black-and-white
artist Lance Mattinson, of Perth, an old
Bulletin contributor, has, since the Armis-
tice, been the staff-artist of Aussie and a
contributor to London Opinion and the
Anzac Bulletin. He hopes to see his
homeland shortly.
“Buffy”: “E.S.S.” (B. 17/7/T9) presents
an impressive list of Australian women
writers whose pigtail days were spent in
the Bush. It recalls the axiom, “Genius is
born in Silence.” Ask any dominie who has
had experience.
“Battle Smoke”: The other night I started
to sort out my accumulated war literature.
I was skimming through an account of the
first Hun columns hurrying through Belgium
to the burglary of France, when I struck
the correspondent’s too-vivid description of
what the unwashed nation-breakers smelt
like. Now I know what Bret Harte really
meant when he wrote in “The Reveille”:
Hark! I hear the tramp of thousands,
And of armed men the hum.
The Bulletin’s name is spelled out in
full when it gets into court over a libel
action, but otherwise it is still a tradition in
“respectable” circles to call this anti-loafing,
anti-One Big City, anti-importing rag “a
certain weekly paper.” It is better than
being a dashed uncertain paper, anyhow,
Bernays, the author of “Queensland Politics
During Sixty Years,” in quoting one of its
financial propositions, dodged the name by
calling it “a- leading Australian weekly
paper.” So it has gone up a step.


/
\W
\\\
\\
Is
ill A
V\l\\ •'
TWA.O/E "* MARK
HERE is a room made beautiful by a
CEILING of WUNDERLICH METAL,
- which enhances the charm, dignity and
solid comfort of the room. Reflect that the
ceiling is practically everlasting—that it will
remain attractive whilst the building stands, with
no expense for repairs or re-decoration. And,
remembering the low cost and many economies
which the WUNDERLICH installation ensures,
specify WU NDERLICHM ETAL for your home.
CATALOGUES. PARTICULARS and ESTIMATES.
Wunderlich
*
o
o
£
o
AN AUSTRALIAN PRODUCT • FOR ■ AUSTRALIAN • PEOPLE
SYDNEY:
Showrooms: 56 Pitt St.
Postal Address:
Box 474 G.P.O.
MELBOURNE:
243 Collins Street.
Box 375 G.P.O.
ADELAIDE:
113 Currie Street.
Box 301 G.P.O.
PERTH:
Lord Street.
Box 383 G.P.O.
BRISBANE:
Amelia Street, Valley.
Box 12 P. 0., Valley.
HOBART:
Macquarie Street,
LAUNCESTON:
71 St. John Street.


>
for
Hdmebush. &
■■ W'
Mnchcombe
€arsbnLt_d
•W
■ VSh***-
Salesmen.
AMERICA’S
PIOSIEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
BURNS AIR
A
One‘BEST’ Light
Gives more Llgli t than
Six Electric Lights, or Ten
Kerosene Lamps or One
Hundred Candles.
Burns lo* Gas
A beautiful, pure white, steady,
sale light. No Wick! NuUrensel
No Smoko! No Oilor! Hang or Set
itanvwliere. Over 100 Styles.
These Lamps being Portable
they require no fitting.
Let us post you a
Best Light
Wall Lamp
complete, which gives 100-candle power light
for 42/6 Post Free
Send for Catalogue No. 821, which also
contains Hollow Wire System of Lighting
BRANDT BROS. LTD.
Air-Gas Engineers
236 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DRAWS
OUT
THE POISONS
which cause Barcoo Rot,
Bad Legs, Sore Feet,
Carbuncles, Boils,
Poisoned Wounds,
Ulcers, Bunions,
Eczema, Piles, and
those arising from Insect
Bites.
The Proprietors of
GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT
have an absolute confidence in its un-
surpassed merits. They know it to be a
safe and perfect cure for all skin and
blood ailments; and the vast number of
testimonials received prove this.
GRASSHOPPER positively
draws the poisons which produce
these maladies out of the system.
As a tonic, liver medicine, blood purifier,
and for those who suffer from headaches, the
GRASSHOPPER PILLS
are equally effective. Do not be persuade:!
to purchase any substitute preparations.
Sold by all Drug Stores and Chemists
throughout the Commonwealth.
HOTEL
METRO POL
• •
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 12/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 4/- and upwards. Cards of Tariff
. m d all Particulars posted on application
The Manager.
ELECTRIC WIRE
Winding Wires
Resistance Wires
(ALL GAUGES).
Shipment just landed.
Prompt attention to all orders, large or small.
The Australectric Company,
97 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
“SEA, LAND AND AIR.”
The new journal dealing with
ITERCANTILE fIARINE, AVIATION & WIRELESS.
9/= per annum. 9d. per copy. ON ALL BOOKSTALLS.
1
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metalli
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust— Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES —Various grade?.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS!
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited
“Collins House,” 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sydney Agent:
R. N. KIltK, 25 O’Connell Street.
Adelaide Agent:
A. W. LEWIS, 62 Brookman Buildings
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
Williams
y
Tate
Powder
CARNfiTiOr
<8
1
K
m?-
xri
A jFTEE the game’ the ride, the
Z\ swim, the brisk walk, or a da) 7 :
Y at' the seashore, turn for comfort®
Williams
Talc Powder
Open the hinged cover and let this
pure, light, fragrant, cooling powder
fall upon the skin. Discomfort dis-
appears instantly at its grateful touch,
and the one drawback to the active,
health-giving, out-of-doors life is
quickly and pleasantly removed.
Get WILLIAMS’ Talc, in the gener-
ous can with the handy, hinged top
that prevents leaking of the powder or
escape of the perfume.
A slight push of the thumb opens the
handy, patented hinged cover.
WILLIAMS’ Talc gives you a wide
choice —Violet, Carnation, English
Lilac, La Tosca, Rose and Matinee
(new). Also, Baby Talc, practically
unscented.
If your Chemist hasn’t got it don't
blame us, but send us 1/3 in stamps
and we will post you a full-size, hand-
some canister. Name the odor you
prefer.
“WILLIAMS,”
Box 98 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
W. 11. Wadey, of South Aus., who the
other clay reached 71, was “admitted” by
the Adelaide Supreme Court at the age of
21, and has been in practice continuously in
his native city for 50 years.
Dead at Lome (Vic.), Alfred, last sur-
viving son of John Colton, former Premier
of S. Aus. He and his brother John carried
on the family hardware business in Adelaide
until it was turned over to Colton, Palmer
and Preston, Ltd.
It costs something to keep a navy going.
The upkeep of the Commonwealth flagship
Australia runs to close on a quarter of a
million a year ; while a boat like the Mel-
bourne costs £lOO,OOO, and a destroyer
£20,000 per annum, without allowing for de-
preciation. It’s a mad world all right.
An elaborate report concerning the Gov-
ernment Small Arms Factory at Lithguw
(N.S.W.) is to hand. The most striking
feature is that, in its busiest year, the fac-
tory turned out £337,400 worth of small
arms. The country was at war, with some
300 000 men in the field ; and the one small
arms factory we have supplied about a
pound’s worth of weapons per man. lor
the rest—well, what is the foreigner for but
to sell us things on time-payment?
“Economist” : Australia’s share of the in-
demnity is unmentioned; but there is an
obvious use for it —to repay as far as it
will go our oversea loans. The internal
debt, large as it, sits lightly on us. But this
insatiable monster in London, with its in-
sistent demand for our raw products at its
own price—a price that, being debtors, we
are forced to take—is a slave-driver we have
sold ourselves to. Australian Democracy, en-
dowed with a continent, sells its economic
freedom to the money-lender; its political
freedom to party machines; and its social
freedom to organised wowsers.
Life railway passes for all present mem-:
bers of the Vic. Parliament as Peace
souvenirs is the latest suggestion pitt for-
ward by a group of Assembly men who have
been taking soundings. The argument was
used that 27 of the 65 members of the
Assembly and 13 of the 34 members of the
Council already have life-passes for their
services as Ministers. The impudence has
been coldly received, but much stronger sup-
port is forthcoming for the companion pro-
posal to increase the pay of Assembly mem-
bers from £3OO to £450 or £5OO a year. And
a very excellent suggestion it would be if
it were part of a scheme to reduce the
membership by a third.
“It’s a jolly good job McPherson isn’t
here,” was the comment of Peacock, when
Lawson announced in Parliament that his
conscience would not allow him to let low-
paid public servants struggle on any longer on
the sweating rates they were drawing. Lawson
has decided to make 10s. a day, or £l5O a
year, the minimum for adults from July 1,
and to give women four-fifths of the £l5O.
Officers drawing above £3 a week are to get
percentage increases. McPherson is expected
from Vancouver early next month, and will
probably blow up when he hears that
£250,000, or thereabouts, is to be given in
extra pay to the civil servants, including
J. Hop.
The Bolshevik or Direct Action doctrine in
Australia is retailed almost altogether by
imported persons who fail to grasp that dif-
ferent countries have different bourgeois. Ac-
cording to the Bolshevik formula, every
bourgeois is like the Russian —an inoffensive
creature, often a Jew, who at the first in-
dication of trouble bolts, leaving his goods
to be disposed of by the Brethren of Man.
The Australian bourgeois, on the other
hand, is one of the most willing hand-to-
hand scrappers in the world. The A.I.F
was a typically bourgeois force, and some of
its best and most dangerous men were Jews
and shopkeepers. Imagine the reception
that Tom Walsh would get on bursting into
the home of, say, Lieut. Keysor, V.C., who
is a commercial Hebrew, or of Bede Kenny,
V. 0., who was a chemist’s assistant before
the war, and is now in the tea line! It
would be absolutely contrary to overseas pre-
cedent.
John Lemmon, M.L.A. for Williamstown
(Vic.), is pushing a scheme for unemploy-
ment insurance; and some Vic. "reformers”
profess to see in the plan “the effective
settlement of the problem of unemployment.”
In other words, the unemployed factory-
hand, for instance, will be quite all right
no matter how few and far between this
country’s factories may presently be as a
result of international competition or Go
Slow or Bolshevism or anything else. An
unemployment-insurance scheme, properly
administered on. a sound basis, would be an
excellent thing, of course; but the attitude
of these reformers towards the proposal sug-
gests that they would see nothing unusual
in an unemployed factory-toiler lifting him-
self off the ground by the slack of his own
dungarees.
It was an importer’s trick, made possible
by a fool of a tariff, that gave the final
knock-out to the promising cotton industry
in Australia. The quality of the Queensland
product was extraordinarily good. In 1855
T. Bazley, M.P., a Manchester yarnspinner,
gave it this testimonial: —
I saw at once that, with such vastly-superior
cotton, yarn could be produced finer than any that
could be manufactured in India or Great Britain.
He says that he spun it into such exquisitely
tine yarn that the weavers of Lancashire,
Scotland and France all said that they could
not turn it into a fabric. Finally he sent
it to Calcutta and got back some of the
finest muslin ever manufactured. During
the American Civil War of the ’sixties
Queensland exported 26,000,0001 b. ginned
cotton, valued at £1,300,000; in 1914 she
produced 35,2301 b. unginned, valued at £BBl.
To make up for that Australia imported
cotton goods to the extent of about £3,000,090
in 1914. There were at one time cotton-
mills in Ipswich (Q-), but they gave up
■ the ghost after five years of struggle. They
had concentrated op towels, the one thing
of cotton with a bit of tariff protection (15
per cent.), but the importers knocked them
■ out by importing towels' in bolts. As the
selvedge was uncut the material tvent as
piece goods and came in duty free.


ms
if!
f T.: • <
AUV
fe
•V"
t *\*‘. J. ■,’ 4
pm ' V.%
|&f IV, ,|Sn
i
Iffl
fffv
f
isr
w
>/y/4
rt-'
m %; ' *' «W'
I hhl
■'
K
iii
■
§llll
SB, «> ‘gK
spy®
/
M
.
s»22a«,
•* V% w *' vt;
X <3hH
:
i '
<V
HI
Hf*
* f* «r >j
wL*#& '"' ' *
•J
oyi
jnu^'
! •
■ -:’
■
P : "*" J»]
W
" ,; r*w^l'
'2T' .*>:,<»*
J>" :
.;'"i
J
g£*i
Nl>
••
#* I
> *
:-.~
-
H
I
*
m
.
j
ssS
*
"
Wff- v-OTSS
a
is*»
»S
>%jjg
*
«»,
--.
«#* Set.
Sim
a -
?' V-'
■'or
ly
A
'i! “
8$
&
K
*4;j ‘
3Kc
m &
.■^■4
x.
m
■
m
.Pi
%
■W&
An
■
.A* 'A
L l
**.
*&
■-
M
■,*
m
.*> AjiA
.■■■’
m
'A
HI
L'.
4;AAU:'
IB BEmHBB
: 't;. ;
.
' -
.. •
A Business Man in Fairyland
Tired and worn! That is the state of the average
business man when he reaches home at night.
Too weary to go out —too indifferent to seek the
relaxation which he needs-and would enjoy.
For such men, the Beale Player-Piano provides an easy step into
a fairyland of real pleasure. All the favorites in light operatic
music, ragtime, folk songs or old time ballads can instantly
be played. You arrange your own programme and play it as
your mood dictates. Bedtime comes in surprisingly quick time —
bringing with it the sweet slumber of a mind refreshed.
INFORMAL CONCERTS HELD DAILY
ASK TO HEAR A FAVORITE PIECE
Head Office 6c Showrooms*
333 GEORGE STREET.
SYDNEY
ec£Le
LTP
&
Factory t
41-47 TRAFALGAR ST.
ANNANDALE
Branches at Bathurst, Orange, Lismore, Newcastle, Goulburn, Wagga. VICTORIA: Maples, in all Melbourne suburbs.
TASMANIA: Williams Bros., Hobart; Maples, Launceston. SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Evans Ltd., Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND: 90-92 Queen St., Brisbane; Kent St., Maryborough; Flinders St., Townsville; Rockhampton; Sydney
St., Mackay; Cairns, WESTERN AUSTRALIA: J. A. Thompson & Co. Ltd., 309 Murray St., Perth.


m
(yfjfuxite
“Unalloyed” Dyes
The dyes used in Hose
of Luxite are “unalloyed”—not
loaded with heavy metallic com*
pounds to give the hose a glossy,
heavy appearance.
The soft, full-bodied, shimmer of
Hose of Luxite is gained by the
use of rich, fine-stitched materials,
pure-dyed.
That is why its elegance and
beauty last through repeated wash-
ings.
The wide range of styles and
prices will suit every purse and
purpose.
Don’t accept substitutes, and
think you have “Luxite.”
Insist upon the genuine.
If your dealer is unable to
supply you, write us.
Walter Cathro Pty. Ltd.,
York Street : : Sydney.
i
\
A
1
i
/Sr
Williams’
Holder Top
Shaving
Stick.
THE HIGH COST of LIVING
and
The Low Cost of Shaving.
Five Shaves lor a Penny. That is the cost of shav-
ing with the WORLD’S BEST.
WILLIAMS’
You may perhaps get as many as Eight Shaves for
a Penny with the Second Best. Is the chance worth
taking ?
WILLIAMS’ SHAVING STICK easily lasts four
months—one hundred and twenty shaves for 2/-.
Five Shaves for a Penny.
If your Chemist hasn’t got it, don’t blame us. Send
us 2/- in stamps and you will receive Williams’
Holder Top Shaving Stick by return post.
“Williams,” Box 98 G.P.0., Sydney.
BULLDOG
GRIP
THE SELF VULCANIZIRG
rTHE S
WILL . REPAIR
ANY SIZE PUNCTURE'
Bl .OWOUT OR TORN *
OBTAINABLE AT ALL GARAGES
PRODUCED ENTIRELY
IN AUSTRALIA.
i
/A
>Y
I
MuaDHßßißaßiaaßßßsee^
Mother appreciates the Soft,
White Light of Laurel
Mother alway insists upon getting full value
for her money. When a certain brand of
goods has been tested and found satisfactory,
she orders it again and insists upon receiving
that brand only. Laurel Kerosene is mother’s
favorite light. Laurel doesn’t strain her
eyes; it allows sewing and knitting to be
done at night-time in comfort.
No light is more restful to the eyes, and, at
the same time, so clear and brilliant as the
soft, white light of Laurel.
Laurel is economical, too; the wicks last
longer, and the lamps do not require re-filling
so often.
If you would experience what good lighting
means, follow the example of most mothers
and ask for Laurel.
For lighting, heating and cooking it cannot
be excelled.
Laurel
“The soft white light
Vacuum Oil Company
Proprietary Limited
J
%
re/
I Sff
mm
INFLUENZA
Used In the Melbourne Hospitals
Brooke’s “Lemos”
The Purest Lemon Squash.
MARTIN’S PILLS
are sold by all chemists and stores. Ladies
recommend them. Be sure you get the
genuine -with the signature:
MARTIN, Chemist, Southampton, England
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builder s’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.O.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
6Si PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
« ■ ■■ ■■■■■!>■■■■■■■ ■‘■a ■■■■ ■ ■ ■ ■ a n
li," ■ ■■■■■■ ■ ■ 111 ■■■«■■ liiiigjilM *
ikiiiiiiiiiMi ■■■■ ■ ■■■■ m "zzi«z : 2
,111 IK a ■ mm mmmm m■ ■ ■.**■»■ »» **m ■P■ ■ ■
V mm mm mmmm umwmWm mm mmmm mvwwm
it!i
■ !■■■
uiu
■ ■■■■
■ ■■■■
■ ■III
■ ■■■■
■■■■a
■ ■am
«■■■■
AIJ
j> %
m
w^.
rXxrS'a
mm
ii*
■ iiit
■ ■■a*
iimi
■ ■■■■
■■■■
■ ■■■
■■■a
■in
■ ■■l
■ ■■■
aaai
■ ■■■
■■■■a|
ini
■ ■■■■l
• ■■■
■■■■a
■■■■■
■■■■■
■■■■■
■■■a
■ ■■■
mu
■ ■■li
ana
■ ■■■■
till
■ ■■li
!■■■! ,
uua
ami
■■■■a
in ti
■■■■l
■■■■a
»■■■■
Hill
■ ■■■a
■ aaai
■ ■■■■
■ ■■■a
*M B "
aaaaa
■ ■■■■
IMIS*
■ ■■■a
• SMI
■ ■■■a
• ■■■a
laan
• ■an
mu
lam
■ ana
■■■■i
■ ■■■a*
■ ■■■i
■ ■■■a
nan
■ ■■■!
■ ■■■l
■ ■■■l
■ ■■■i
■ ■■■l
■ ■■■l
■ ■■II
ami
■ ■■■■
af ■■*■■■■ ■■■ ■'■■■■■■■■■'■■ ■■ ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■i.iß ■ *■■■■■■■■■■■
■ ■■■■■■a ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■laia
■■■■■■■■■■■■ ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ ,
■lliaia* ■■■■■■■■■■.■■ ■■■■■■■■ ■■■■■■■■■Enaaii* »■■■■!■!■■■*>
■ ■■■■*!■■ ■■■■■■■■ ■■■!■■■■■■ ■■■■■■iwna ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ aa
The Car
for the
Owner-Driver
ritisn
The All
IhkusbU
light" car
Send your enquiry for early delivery to Agent—
I. PHIZACKERLEY, SYDNEY.
STANDARD MOTOR CO. LTD.,
COVENTRY, ENGLAND.
“S.T.S.”: The statement (B. 10/7/T9)
that Du Maurier “wrote ‘Peter Ibbetson’ be-
fore ‘Trilby’ came to light, but didn’t publish
it” is wrong as to the latter part. “Peter,”
with the author’s own illustrations, was pub-
lished first all right. But it did not catch
on, and was not dramatised till about five
years ago.
“32/40”: While the measure which made
U.S.A. “dry” was going through Congress
one legislator from the West arose and
fiercely opposed it. “I base my objections
to it,” he roared, “on religious grounds. I
have hunted through the Bible from Genesis
to Revelation, and I found only one instance
of a man asking for a glass of water, and
he was in Hell!”
“T.D.M.D.” : In the archives of the Firm
there is a dramatisation of “Sapho,” by
Bernard Espinasse. He wrote it about 20
years ago at the time when Olga Nethersole’s
production was causing so much criticism ni
New York. James Cassius intended to offer
Nance O’Neil the part, but was worried to
death how to find an actor strong enough
to carry her up the flight of stairs. The
old manager sternly repelled the suggestion
of a goods lift.
Most Melbournites have already forgot-
ten the pageant of Peace Day. But people
still talk about the stunts of the airmen.
Every returned flier who could lay hands
on a ’bus was out and about. They tumbled
and wheeled and whirled and looped
amongst the scudding clouds like a flight of
intoxicated eagles. The weather that day
in Melbourne was vile; but the young sports
aloft played about regardless of the sudden
rain-squalls, criss-cross winds and clouds
that looked like a clip from weatherstained
merinos.
“Bee” Clifford, the tall, slender genthelp
on the G.-G.’s staff, was born in Tasmania
but educated in England under the wing of
an aunt, while his father and the rest of the
family lived very modestly on a poultry firm
in the Apple Island. Then came the war
and cut off numerous males in the family, so
that Mr. Clifford became Lord Clifford —to
the extreme annoyance of several very snob-
bish Apple Islanders, who had missed the
chance of cultivating his acquaintance. And
Lord Clifford quietly packed up his traps,
said good-bye to the hens, and carried his
family off to the English estates that Fate
had suddenly thrust upon him.
“J.H.” : Joe Brown, chief film censor for
N. S. Wales, was on the Inky Way before
taking to the theatre. He was responsible
for several scoops for the Age, including one
relating the fact that the rescue parties at
the big Australasian mine disaster near Cres-
wick (Vic.) in 1880 had got into touch with
the survivors. The inrush of water drowned
22 men. Sam Whittaker was doing the
job for the Argus. At 4 a.m. Brown, w'hile
dozing, heard men whispering the good
news. iHe scrambled out, got the story,
and, seeing a saddled horse tethered to a
fence, mounted it and rode to the Creswick
post-office. A late edition of the Age pub-
lished the information which the Argus had
to Confirm next day.
Here’s a line from Miss Butler-George:—
I’ve just spent two weeks in France and Bel-
gium, as the guest of Australian H.Q. for four days
and of the 2nd Division for the rest of the time. I
motored over a thousand miles of battlefields, and
made pilgrimage to every Australian cemetery and
lonely grave that I came across. The Australians
fill me with a splendid pride. The French people
both love and honor them. Wherever I went I
heard the same thing: “The Australians 1 But they
fought like lions.” “The Australians t Ah, they save 1
for us Amiens.” And they know that means they
were the saviours of Paris. Always it was the same
through the long miles of travelling I did—under-
taken mainly to obtain material for my w r ork for
the memorial that the 2nd Division is putting up
on glorious Mont St. Quentin.
“S.S.”: Bonn’s Golden Glow Dramatic
Co. was playing “The Last Crime” through-
out the Gippsland smalls, and the Gippsland
smalls are very small indeed. Byblow was
one of the smallest, but there was a fair
audience in Witcliff’s barn, and one that
seemed absorbed in the thriiling story. The
distracted but wholly innocent hero, wander-
ing from place to place, piteously seeking
“worruk” or “ber-ead,” was a particular
spell-binder. For the third time he had
been callously turned down; and when he
threw up his hands, and cried to Heaven:
“Here am I, an honest man, willing to work
for me ber-ead, and no man will employ
me!” a cautious but emphatic voice from
the front stalls inquired earnestly: “But
can you milk?”
The Hon. Neville Lytton, writing on
“University Sport and the War,” gives a
manly appreciation of the late F. E. Kelly,
brother of Willie, M.11.R., and Bertie, of
Sydney. He writes of the great Eton and
Oxford sculler and fine musician:—
He did not plead exemption on the ground of
genius, as some of his contemporaries have done; the
attractions of being an “official” musician evi-
dently did not appeal to him; he was too great a
man and too great an artist to do otherwise than be
a soldier. After very gallant service in Gallipoli,
he met his death on November 13, 1916, in the
battle of Beaumont Hamel. There is little doubt
that had he lived his would have been one of the
great names in British art.
Another Australian of unquenchable spirit
is young Captain Gordon McArthur, son of
Stewart McArthur, K.C. Though he has
lost a leg he is stroking the crew of Jesus
College, Cambridge.
Some of the interpreters attached to the
A.I.F. in France were interesting and useful
in other matters than language. Colin
Campbell, who was a shining light in Mel-
bourne society before the war, had the hous-
ing of five of them when he was a sergeant
at Armentieres. One interpreter had been
chef to Lord Rosebery; another had been
chef to Sir Francis Lloyd (the well-tailored
G.O.C. of London District during part of the
war), a third had been manager of the Gar-
rick restaurant in London, and a fourth was
chef on a Cunard liner. The fifth was a
very intellectual and witty Jesuit, who was
the entertainer of the group. Campbell
begged and borrowed boards to make a floor
in a shelled ruin for his charges. His social
successes as a rich Melbourne host were as *
nothing compared with his popularity during
the Armentieres period. For he contrived
to give “little dinners” at odd times.


Jk
Sf
liiiimimmiii
miiiHiiniuh:
lliiiiuiil
m
mill
m
SMS
IN
m
/I
Z 6
FJ
lllnillilljl
pUHj
P!
m
jfi
llHilllllllh
m
liI!IllIlll||lfflt)U
w
|liiiiin!i||
K
10l
Ulllllll'M
||IIIUI||
o
‘Millin'
a
'll
iiililikki
a
o
11l
HllllU!
IIUHIIHIUjII
m
11111 l
l|)i
1111(45
W
mi
o
ilmiM
mmm:
—m
mini
n
*sn
m
32
liiiiiiiiiiiiiiiit
I
m
&
A
I yll!l!!l!!lllilllll NHDBKIBI
FOR INSIDE WOODWORK
v
yj I )yj
LI
12=0
C \
n
%
¥■
2
Si
FOR HOTEL BARS,ETC
c
XL
ft
FURNITURE
TOPS
FOR
TABLE
f '
v- 1
FOP BOATS,YACHTS .ETC
NEVAMAR” resists the adtion of
Water, Acid and Weather.
When you varnish a surface that is likely to
come in contact with acid, hot water, or
alcohol, it is imperative that you use a good
varnish which acids and liquids cannot affect.
Berger’s “Nevamar” is an impervious varnish
for EVERY purpose —a general utility varnish
that will effectually protect the surface, and
retain its brilliance, under all conditions.
Neither boiling water nor rain water will
affect it —therefore it is best for table tops,
cafe furniture, interior and exterior wood-
work, etc.
Alcohol and acid cannot turn it white. There
is no better varnish for hotel bars and
fittings.
MANUFACTURERS:
LEWIS BERGER & SONS (AUST.), LTD.,
Factory: Rhodes.
Offices: 16-18 Young Street, Sydney.
DISTRIBUTORS:
BRISBANE: Jas. Campbell & Sons, Ltd.
MELBOURNE: H. J. Corder Pty. Ltd.
~ „ John Danks & Son Pty., Ltd.
Salt water does not impair its brilliance
nor will exposure to sun, wind and tide
affect it. It is the ideal varnish for yachts,
boats, ships’ cabins, &c.
It is EXCEPTIONALLY PALE and particu-
larly suitable for the finishing of delicate
colors. It will not crack, bloom, nor peel.
“Nevamar” is manufactured at our works at
Rhodes, and is sold with the usual Berger
Guarantee of quality.
Specify “ NEVAMAR the Waterproof Var-
nish which gives a beautiful and extremely
durable finish.
ADELAIDE: W. & T. Rhodes, Ltd.
PERTH: McLean Bros. & Rigg.
HOBART: T. J. Cane & Co., Ltd.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: Phillipps & Impey, Ltd.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: Robt. Martin, Ltd.
„ „ „ R. &E. Tingey & Co., Ltd.
„ „ „ George Winder.
I)
iC r
er
L
J
L


COTICURA HEALS
ITCHING ERUPTION
figured. Lost Sleep.
“A very thick rash <
and my clothes seeme
chest
) irritate it.
It took the form of*small
blisters and then spread
into one large eruption caus -
ing my chest to be very
much disfigured. I suffered
considerable itching and
lost a lot of sleep.
“I sent for a sample of Cuticura Soap
and Ointment. After one month the
rash showed signs of moving «o I
bought more which healed me.”
(Signed) Mrs.H.A.Palmer.Post Office,
Marulan, N. S. W&, Sept. 25, 1917.
Prevent further trouble by using
Cuticura Soap for all toilet purposes.
Soaptocieanseand Ointment to heal.
“R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
Sold by dealers throughout the world.
S 5
n phf VftVrtji
Til E
mm
with
the new flavour
H.P. Sauce being rich,
thick and fruity, can be
taken with the meat,
just like mustard.
H.P. is such a welcome change to
the old-fashioned kinds of sauces.
>s
* /.
w
15a
ur\
ff
\'.
Your Mirror
will oive;
you
th« pleasing
assurance that
your Complexion
is' what It shout,
be If you use ,»
TETLOW’S
FACE
POWDER
It imparts a delicate bloom to the
Complexion, so pure that it will
not harm ihe most sensitive skin.
Sold In Five Tints l
White. Cream. Pink. Flesh and Prunette.
by all Stores. Chemists, Perfumers and
First C/ass Drapery House *
ENGLISH
Per
9 Ad. PRICE
box.
Wholesale Distributing Agents:-
Messrs. ELLIOTT BUGS.. LTD.,
Sydney.
Messrs. WASHINGTON H. SOUL,
PATTINSON & CO., Sydney.
Messrs. ANTHONY HORDERN AND
SONS LTD., Sydney.
THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.,
Sydney.
/ CONOON WHOLESALE AGENTS!-
HENRY C. QUELCH 6s CO..
4 &. 5. Ludgate Sq.. London. Eng.
THE GREAT BRITISH
RHEUMATIC REMEDY.
*
GOUT
AND RHEUMATIC PELLS
The Famous Medicine that relieves
RHLIJMATISM, GOUT, LUMBAGO, SCIATICA,
The Great Discovery of the Age.
Purely Vegetable. Sure and Safe.
All Drug Stores. English price, 1/3 and 3/-.
Prout & Co., 229, Strand, London.
l
1
€
ww
■
1
I
m
ssigyv
sra
m
w&fj?/.
l
m
CROUCH
dH*fT!lia Uss iiiffis
We Can Make Immediate Shipment
from the East Coast, and
from the West Coast,,
either from our own warehouses
at Staten Island, New York, or
from our branch house in San
Francisco.
Write for our monthly maga-
zine.
and our Stockbook SB2, giving
a list of quantities on hand.
Cable Address:
“Ardeencee,” New York.
Codes used: ABC sth Edition,
Western Union, Lieber’s, and
Bentley’s.
Rownson, Drew & Clydesdale Inc.
K 68 William St., New York, U.S.A.
\ta»
□
mi a x
C-YALE-)
The Guardian of the
Wealth of Nations
THE vaults of the treasuries of the
United States and many of the
strongest banks of the world are se-
cured by Yale bank locks.
Where giant institutions place their
confidence, you may freely place yours.
Yale products offer the greatest security,
highest quality and widest adaptability.
There is a Yale lock for every use, from
those on the massive,complicatedTreas-
ury vault doors to the pilfer-proof locks
on the smallest boxes.
There are equally good Yale night
latches, Yale padlocks, Yale door clos-
ers, Yale builders’hardware and Yale
chain blocks—all worthy of your
confidence, and all bear the trade-
mark; look for it on. the product.
Your order can be executed through
leading dealers.
THE YALE & TOWNE
Mfg. Co.
Established 1868
York
New
(YALE) TRIPLEX BLOCKS
have Steel Suspension Plates, so that no cast-iron is in tension
to hold the load.
Inspect before buying.
FRANK R. PERROT, Sole Australian Agent,
334 Kent Street, Sydney; 883 Hay Street, Perth.
L. BANNISTER, 39 Queen Street, Melbourne.
EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., 121 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Stocks in all Capital Cities of Australia.
[3-10
For our sick and wounded
BOYS. —When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Red Cross Book
Depot, Wynyard Street, Sydney.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Danger signal in Launceston Examiner :
Wanted —Set boxing gloves, second-hand. “Poet,”
this office.
Lord help all editors now!
As the parson is pushing back into politics
the Holman Government has revived the
Botany Bay practice of making them into
J’s.P. Two have lately been appointed.
A cable received from New York tells of
the death in America, on July 2<j, of A. C.
Lyon, manager of the W. 11. Comstock
medicine co.
“Wandewoi”: The wireless profiteer got
his hooks into us before we sighted Aus-
tralia. Whilst in touch with England, aud
afterwards when in communication with
Capetown, we could send radiograms at the
rate of 30 words for ss. Approaching our
own Australia we were advised that radio-
grams would be accepted and charged for at
the rate of lid. per word—an increase of
only 450 per cent. Who’s the big robber V
“D.F.”: Queensland’s first Kanakas were
shipped in by Benjamin Boyd, of Twofold
Bay, in 1840. He brought nearly 100 of
them from the New Hebrides, and told the
squatters- that “by common firmness and
kindness in management they may be in-
duced to do a moderate quantity of work
•■-equally as well as any European and at less
than a third of the cost.” The first ship-
inont of 56 Chinamen came to Brisbane in
\iS4B. But neither Kanakas nor Chinese
proved much good for the work they were
put to, which was mostly shepherding.
The oldest industrial award in existence
in N. S. Wales was brought out the other
1 day to be dusted. It was made to govern
the conditions of employment of the em-
ployees of Hoskins, of Sydney and Lithgow,
after the big ironworkers’ assistants’ strike.
Coming into effect in 1909, it has been re-
enacted from time to time as it threatened
to expire. Now the employers themselves
consider a little rectification necessary; they
offer an advance all round of 7s. (id. per
week, but the employees want shorter hours
also.
“The Traveller” : A call for small econo-
mies has started Vic. Government depart-
ments turning obsolete forms, etc., to account
by utilising (lie blank sides. Recently a rail-
way document of this kind came my way.
The original had set out the progress of
work on the Geelong-Ballaarat (note the spell-
ing) railway. Evans, Merry and Co. were
the contractors. The date was February 21,
1859. I’ve got nothing but commendation
for the economy; but I hope that somebody
is watching that valuable bits of the past
are not thus lost.
“Coot” : Apropos the frequent protest that
the Germans in Australia came uninvited,
William Westgarth, the merchant whose
“Early Melbourne” is a classic, shows that
not only were the early settlers invited, but
some were given assistance to the extent of
£lB a head to come to Port Phillip. Westgarth
himself, having arranged this grant, was
commissioned to go to Hamburg, and after-
wards to travel through Silesia, to bring
under the notice of suitable people the ad-
vantages of Australia. Six months later the
first party set sail from Hamburg. That
would be about 1848.
“Dividing Fence”: When rabbits and
sparrows were introduced, Westralia was
overlooked. The rabbits have corrected the
oversight, and now you’ll find them along
pretty well the whole length of the con-
tinent. The sparrows are doing their best
to follow this example. Along the coast
they have got as far as Euela, while further
north there is a steady migration westward
along the railway. Small parties arrive fre-
quently at Tarcoola, 250 miles from Port
Augusta, and on the edge of the empty
country. A barrage is being laid down at
both Euela and Tarcoola, and a systematic
effort made to wipe them out as they arrive.
Adelaide has just become the poorer
by one good citizen, Owen Smyth, who is
retiring to England. He has been the one
and only Superintendent of Public Build-
ings, the post having been created for him
some 35 years ago, in the Ayers and Baker
days. Every hospital that needed a new
wing, every Governor’s wife that needed a
new carpet, had to satisfy the S.P.B. on the
question ; and he wasn’t easily satisfied. In
private life he has been a collector of
weapons, an authority on everything con-
nected with Napoleon, and local founder of
such bodies as Navy League and Societv of
St. George, at whose dinners his fiery
oratory generally invoked the Deity or the
Devil, or both.
Lieut.-Col. J. T. McColl, who came home
the other day, had a more varied war ex-
perience than most Australians. A Perma-
nent man, he happened to be in England
doing a course when the pot boiled over.
At first with the Wiltshires, he was next
sent to Ireland in connection with Kit-
chener’s scheme, and took the field in
December, 1914, with a regiment just back
from India. His brigade was moved from
France to the Balkans a year later; and
after nearly two years there he was back in
France in time to get slightly wounded with
the Diggers at Villers-Bretonneux. From
that onwards he was Chief Staff-Officer of
the Fifth Division. He and Colonel Eames
were the first Australian officers to be men-
tioned in despatches.
“Wing-Tip”: Flying is like all other
games; a man can be a champion in 14
departments and yet be a blob in the 15th.
The special weakness of one of the cheeriest
of the Australians w T as the landing: he did
it so badly that he piled up machine after,
machine, and nearly broke the heart of bis
instructor. Some time later he was away
in the air and ran out of petrol. He made
for the nearest ’drome —a strange one to
him—signalled a request to be allowed to
land, and got the desired invitation. Down
he came, and was hoping to make a graceful
landing, when one of his wing-tips hit a
shed. Over he went in a heap. Men ran
to the wreck, but just ns the first rescuer
reached it, out stepped the Australian—and
found himself face to face with his old
instructor! He sprang to attention, saluted
and, reported with a grin: “Done it again,
sir!” The only name his mates now know
him by is “Done-it-again,”


The Three
Lines of i Defence
n
y*
m
AUSTRALIA’S NAVY.
//
AUSTRALIA’S ARMY.
EXTUjftl
AUSTRALIA’S IRON AND STEEL INDUSTRY.
In Time of Peril
our first reliance must be on the Navy. On land we turn to the trained
men of the Australian Defence Forces. But behind both Army and
Navy there must be the third line of defence —
The Munition Worker
For the defence of Australia, Iron and Steel Works are an imperative
necessity. If all the IRON and STEEL Products used in Australia
were made by our own people, work would be given to
30,000 Workers
who would earn over
£5,000,000 per year
These men, including thousands of skilled mechanics, would be
available at any time to supply our Army and Navy with Guns and
Munitions.
The Australian
IRON & STEEL INDUSTRY
is vitally necessary for the defence,
not only of Australia, but of the Empire.
Is Australia Prepared to Do Her Part?


A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding Wristlet
Watch, full jewelled, lever movement, compensation
balance, £7/10/-
Others, £4, £5/10/-, £6/10/-, £B/10/-, £lO,
£l2/10/-, £l5.
Watch Specialist
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding Wristlet
Watch, full jewelled, lever movement, £B/10/-
Extra jewelled, £lO,
A.
Saunders’ Gent.’s Silver Hunting
Lever, extra qualify movement, £3,
£B/10/,. £4/10/-, £5, £6,
£7/10/-, Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s
Wristlet Watch, full
jewelled, lever movement,
compensation balance,
Solid Gold, £6/10/-,
Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’ Solid Gold Plain Elgin or
Waltham, lever movement, £lO. Heavier
Oases, £l2/10/-. 14ct. Gold, £l5.
18et., £2O, £25, £3O, Guaranteed.
A.SMJNDERS
111
A. Saunders’ Nickel or Gunmetal Centre Seconds
Lever Watch Wristlet, jewelled movement, £2.
Extra jewelled, £2/10/-. Silver, £3, £3/10/-
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s
Open-face Wristlet,
25/-, 307-
Solid Silver, £2,
£2/10/-
Gold-filled, £3/10/-,
£4/10/-
9ct. Gold, £5, £5/10/-,
£6/10/-, £7/10/-,
Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s High-grade Nickel
Lever, 25/-, 307-
Extra jewelled, 35 /-, 40 /-, 50 /-
A. Saunders’ Lady’s 9ct. Gold Expanding Wristlet Watch,
full jewelled, lever movement, compensation balance, £lO.
15ct. Gold, £l5. Extra jewelled, £l6/10/-, Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS,
JEWELLER,
805=815 George Street, Sydney.
Opposite Railway Station.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid 9ct. Gold Patent Expanding
Wristlet Watch, full jewelled, lever movement, compensa-
tion balance, £B/10/-
Extra jewelled, £lO. 15ct. Gold, £l5.
THE NEW 30" x 3
MAPLE
YRE
(Made in Canada)
is now on sale in Sydney at £5/12/6 each.
This Tyre, the product of one of the largest Canadian
Factories, embodies all the latest principles
known to Tyre Manufacturers.
It is indeed in a class of its own, and satisfaction is
assured.
Maple Leaf Tyre guarantee basis is 3000 miles.
DISTRIBUTORS—
United States Rubber Company
(Australasia) Limited
53 YORK STREET SYDNEY.
W. A. SORRELL, 151 Gastlere&gb Street Sydney.


CL6
jor^Sl
is.
ifi3 a
ft
V
»
c g
>v.
ft
&
?
'Hl'P'
AJI3
AR2
-To
■' <#?•:-••
you, cannot aJtforcL
to miss these \&fues.
“Orient” Sac Suits, 84/-
Ready to wear, in grey. All-wool Australian tweed,
cut (as illustrated) in a range of sizes to accurately
fit every type of figure. “Equally as good ns made-
to-measure” is the invariable verdict of actual
wearers. 84 /-
“Orient” Shirts, 6/6.
Made from good-quality Cambric in Golf style, with
new and effective blue or black checks on white
ground. 13in. to 17Jin. neck.
“Orient” Suit Cases.
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
David (Jones
Opp.G.P.O. SYDNEY TeL City 6336.
u
The Mark of Quality plus Service.
Rotary Service Switches.
'■■■
llii
If your
retailer
does not
stock
Arrow
Goods
write
immediately
to
D. Hamilton
& Co.
«[ These Switches embody the latest design and improved construction of
American manufacture.
IT Highly finished polished nickel, with indicating covers etched “On” “Off.”
They are dust and moisture proof, the dial operating between xhe me a
cap and a fibre lining NOT cut away at the indicating hole.
*[ The dial of the indicating type being operated by the handle, is not attached
to the moving mechanism of the switch.
CEILING SWITCHES,
etc.
We have large stocks of the following types, which we are pleased to offer as
Cat. No. Description. .
6211—5 Amp. Bible. Pole Indicating Rotary Switches
g2lB—lo Amp. Dble. Pole Indicating Rotary Switches
0123—20 Amp. Dble. Pole Indicating Rotary Switches
0028 —30 Amp. Dble. Pole Indicating Rotary Switches
0202—3 Amp. Sgle. Pole Non-Indicating Switches
0206 —5 Amp. Sgle. Pole Non-Indicating Switches
5 Amp. Ceiling Switches, Sgle. Pole.
10 Amp. Ceiling Switches, Two Way.
Ceiling Switch Rosettes.
under:—-
Price per doz.
37/-
44/-
85/-
95/-
21/-
27/6
Delivery can be made
immediately from stock.
9 3SP
I
Eledrical Importers
and Suppliers : s : >
283-285 Clarence Street, Sydney
And at Melbourne and Brisbane.
Twmfpsmv. MTSGGTTT & CO., LTD., Factory Representatives.
QUOTATIONS ON APPLICATION.
7
-r';£*k
■ -mk
_ :»
and Tasmania: A. L. CAMPBELL & CO. PTY., Ltd., 33 William Street, Melbourne.
Agents for Victoria. South Aus
Talking about Defence extravagance in
London, it is alleged that at one time 7000
girls were employed in the various Austra-
lian offices there—pert misses some of them
were. Billjim noted appalling instances of
waste for use later on; and it will require
all the arts of Pearce, the responsible Min-
ister, to explain away the splashing of loan
money on which 5 p.c. has to be sweated
out of Australia every year.
“D.F.”: Chinese were in Australia long
before the gold discovery. In 1827 there
were two Chinese cabinet-makers in Sydney.
They were named Quong and Tchiou, and
they put in two or three weeks making
furniture for Dr. Lang. The doctor devised
a scheme for settling 1000 families of
Chinese on 10,000 or 20,000 acres of land
at Port Macquarie to cultivate the tea-
plant ; but it was one of the strenuous
cleric’s many schemes that died young.
“The Wanderer”: In Molong (N.S.W.)
Cemetery is the grave of one John Cotter.
John was a monumental mason in the
Marble Town in the days when our beards
were black, and his headstone was the work
of his own hands. The inscription reads: —
Here lies John Cotter, born in London on Good
Friday, 1824.
Died
What was his age when he died, in years, months,
weeks and days?
As John didn’t fill in the date when he died,
and no one has done it for him, his conun-
drum js harder than he expected.
Waterloo—With a Difference.
[For The Bulletin.]
Almost every paper that writes about the
war is still giving the dead disturbance
burial by comparing it with the one which
roused Europe 100 years earlier. The re-
semblance is the same as that between
Humphrey Davy, the scientist, and Davy
Jones, the fiend who sinks ships. The only
difference between them is that they don’t
resemble anywhere outside the name.
The great war that ended in 1815 began
with one of the most successful and best-
managed revolutions in history and the
wiping out of a very aged and erOnk royal
institution. It developed into a military
despotism, but only for a short while; and
the empire which finished at Waterloo was
a Parliamentary affair on a freer basis than
that of England. The war that began jn
1914 ended with a revolution; but it was
a poor, half-baked affair, and seems to have
left the old evils much as they were except
insofar as the Allies altered them.
The men who began the great drama on
which the curtain fell in ISIS were not
profiteers or money-grubbers. They died
poor, and not because their property was
confiscated, for there was none to confis-
cate. Even Robespierre left little save his
lodgings and his shirt. If the men of 1914
die poor it will be because their millions of
loot have been dragged from them amid loud
protests.
The respectable old war didn’t begin as £l
war of conquest. The disrespected new one
did. The first was the war of a republic
against despotisms. The second was a war
with the best organised military despotism
on earth and two subsidiary despotisms on
one side and 12 republics on the other, to
say nothing of seven more republics which
broke off relations with the boss despot.
The discrepancy is the same as that between
a hospital and a push outrage.
Napoleon, the leading character of the
first episode, was a man of the people, who
rose by his merits as a soldier, statesman,
builder and organiser. His personal courage
was beyond dispute, and when there was
anything to be gained by it he went under
fire as a matter of course. The outstand-
ing personality of the second row owed his
position to the fact, that he was the ninth
of a line of unprepossessing kings. He was
never accused of statesmanship, he was a
rotten soldier and an habitual dodger of
bullets. Nobody was killed by his side,
though he heard of many deaths by telegram.
Every Government that Napoleon pulled
down was worse than the one he set up.
He was especially the destroyer of the In-
quisition, and even in his campaigns he was
an architect and a creator of new things.
His downfall was the signal for the restora-
tion of all the old sins that he had removed.
William ll.’s fall was the signal for the
abolition of many ancient tyrannies and the
greatest repair and cleaning-up that Europe
has seen since the Roman days. In fact,
there was nothing quite like it even then.
Europe might have been saved a century
of trouble and expense and misery if
Napoleon I. and George 111. had patched up
their differences and the wonderful Italian
had been allowed to run the continent. Un-
happily no one could patch up George 111.,
as Washington and Jefferson discovered
when they ran against the snuffy calamity.
George’s capacity for backing the wrong
horse amounted to a Heaven-sent gift. In
fact, if there was only one horse so that
it couldn’t be wrong the old man would put
his money on a cow. The fact that he
was a Hun and that he thought the world
well lost if his Hun Kingdom of Hanover
( 14,802 square miles, or a little more than
half the size of Tasmania) was saved, dis-
rupted the history of the globe.
Napoleon I. was not only a great man;
he was as good as he could afford to be in
the time at his disposal. Compared with
the average monarch he shone like a noble
deed in a dry land. He and his story should
be kept apart from the unwholesome records
of the Hohenzollerns. In that connection
the British clumsiness and lack of tact were
manifested in the fact that some well-mean-
ing people with their feet in their mouths
actually celebrated the Waterloo centenary
during the recent war. If the sense of
how to pay a graceful compliment isn’t dead
every place in the British Empire named
Waterloo should be re-christened. There
are four towns of the name in Australia,
also streets, lanes and alleys past counting—
most of them dirty.
James Edmond.


THOMPSON & CO.
(CASTLE MAINE)
Proprietary Ltd.
Telegrams and Cables
THOMPSON’S,
CASTLEMAINE.
ENGINEERING WORKS,
CASTLEMAINE, VICTORIA.
Telephones:
Nos. 5 and 113.
We Specialise in the Desig'n and Manufacture of
Pumps &, Pumping' Machinery
and Complete Installations
Capacity 17,500 gal. per minute
against a total head of 96 feet.
Efficiency of pump 82 per cent.
under guaranteed efficiencies for
W aterworKs
Sewerage
Irrigation
Mining'
Dredging', etc.
AGENTS.
Send
us
your
Enquiries.
Melbourne:
Gibson, Battle (Melb.) Pty. Ltd.
Sydney:
Gibson, Battle & Co. Ltd.'
Brisbane:
Engineering Supply Co. of Aust. Ltd.
Adelaide:
Newton, McLaren Ltd.
Perth s
Brown & Dureau Ltd.
London:
Francis Chapman Son & De ikes, Fenchurch Street.
Business, Bobbery, etc.
Ihey re not so slow in Maoriland. While
nearing a case which turned upon the
damage done to the plaintiffs clothes by a
protruding nail in a packing-case, a magis-
tiate guessed that if duds got much dearer
citizens would have to go about in a coat of
blue paint. Within two days he was clear-
ing up a litter of catalogues that paint
firms had sent Jiim.
* * * *
. . I .9 tira ’’. : T lie en( M. ess commercial possi-
bilities of the whaling industry are being
realised in America. The meat of the hump-
back, finback, sulphur-bottom and right
whales is now introduced as food, and is
said to taste like beef. One 50ft. whale
is equal to 100 bullocks. And the whale
meat is free from disease. While one million
pounds of pork were condemned in U.S.A.
last year, none of the whale-beef was unfit
for eating. The one whale which is un-
pleasant fodder is the bottlenose. He tastes
like castor-oil, and has the same effect
* * * *
“Melos”: For many years prior to the war
it was a common thing to find Fritz prowl-
ing about our coastal scrubs and ranges.
Ostensibly of the casual-labor species, he
was in a reality a scientific herr with a big
connection. Through him Germany secured
large quantities of a vine from which a
valuable preservative was manufactured •
also_ fern and grass-tree, which became ex-
plosives under treatment. Writer rendered
assistance to one who had lost his bearings
in the bush, and was rewarded with in-
formation concerning the life-saving and also
life-destroying properties of certain in-
digenous flora. Fritz had shed his bluchers
by way of lightening his load, but clung tena-
ciously to his trophies—leaves, hark and
seed. A jouimey of many thousands of
miles, with the subsequent rambling in a
strange land that is more or less hostile to
the novice in bushology, is not the under-
taking of the casual. Recent events have
given us a light on the subject. I wonder
whether we shall lose sight of it.
•* # * *
Apropos early Australian wage-fixing,
Governor Hunter turned himself into an
Arbitration Court in 1797 on being informed
by settlers that the pay demanded by
laborers was so “excessively exorbitant” that
it ran away with most of the profit of the
farms. His award was Is. a day with board
and 2s. 6d. without, or £lO by the year with
board. A week’s board was 41b. salt pork
or 61b. fresh meat and 211 b. wheat, with
vegetables. He fixed piecework rates, too;
10s. an acre for reaping wheat, 7s. an acre
for chipping-in wheat, 9d. a bushel for
threshing, and £,l 4s. an acre for breaking
up new ground. Forest timber was to be
felled_ at 9s. an acre, and brush timber at
10s. 6d., while £1 ss. was allowed for burn-
ing off open ground and £1 10s. brush
ground. Sawing planks (hand-sawing, of
course) was to be done for 7s. per 100 ft.,
and 3s. was reckoned enough for splitting
100 7ft. palings.
* * * *
“R.S.V.P.”: This country makes a few
chairs, but there seems to be little doing in
the common bentwoood article, known as
the Vienna, which is mostly used in public
halls and private kitchens. Nowadays Mel-
bourne furniture-dealers can get 15s. for
every decent Vienna chair they can lay their
hands on; and at suburban sales wrecks of
this kind, scratched, bottomless and groggy,
readily sell for ss. Is there no Australian
timber that can be worked up? The prime
cost of the materials surely can’t stand in
the way. What is doing it, then?
* * * *
. <l T e Whare”: So far as the fish-curing
industry is concerned Australia is hull down
behind the times. Practically no economic
use is made of the herrings and pilchards
of which at certain seasons millions pass
along the coast of New South Wales and
other parts of our seaboard. There is, too,
an anchovy native to Australian seas which
is quite equal to the famous anchovies of the
Mediterranean. Barracouta, tailer, trevally
and mullet are, of course, cured on a fairly
large scale, but these are not the only fish
which take the salt well. Snapper are good
when salted and smoked, and where the
catch of these fish is more than sufficient for
local consumption, and there is no means of
getting the surplus to market in good con-
dition, it might be cured. As it is, the sur-
plus fish are in such instances usually
thrown away. The humble blue-belly, again,
or lilac-banded parrot-fish, is hardly recognis-
able when salted and smoked. If first fried
and then converted into fish-balls it is also
excellent. Fresh, or fried simply, the flesh
is soft and tasteless. After exceptionally
heavy weather on the N.S.W. South Coast
I have found numbers of fine ling among
the derelicts cast up on the beaches, a proof
of the existence of this fish in plenty in the
I « C fL lty V' stl ould cure just as well
as the European ling, which comes to Aus-
m barrels. This fish and certain other
rock-haunting varieties might be taken in
quantity by means of the trammel net a
device seldom used by Australian fishermen
As the ling boards about outside reefs and
rocky inshore grounds it misses the trawl
net as a rule. Another good salter and
smoker is the blue groper, chief of the
parrot-fish tribe, which may turn the scale
at anything from 101 b. to 501 b. Most soft
fish may be cured—after splitting them down
the back and taking out the bone, if large
by simply rubbing with coarse salt, drying
in the sun, and finally smoking in the same
manner as bacon. After the first salting the
fish should be allowed to stand for a time
piled in a tub or barrel, and turned occasion-
ally, then again salted, and finally dried and
smoked.
* * * *
‘‘Plain Bill”: In the ’seventies the bush
lands between Cook’s River bridge and Tom
Ugly’s Point sheltered a few illicit stills.
My father, at that time licensee of a populai 1
pub near the old toll-bar on the Newtown-
road, never traded any of the firewater pro-
duced by these joints; but he used to call
in and have a friendly drink when passing
to and from Sydney. The places had the
appearance of orchards. One I knew well
was surrounded by a few acres of orchard
with spuds growing between the rows of
trees. While I bagged the peaches and nec-
tarines Dad would wander inside and sample
the grog with the gravity of an expert.
* * * *
“Willow”: Old Mac could always find a
ready sale for gravel, and it was both
quicker and easier to sweep up a load off
the surface of the council roads, after a
sliow'er of rain, than to journey to the
creek for it. Mac was estimating whether
he had sufficient gathered to fill his dilapi-
dated dray when the council inspector hove
in view. “Hello, Mac, caught you at last,
have I? I suspected it from the bald patches
on the roads. Now I have you in the act.”
“Gorstrooth!” said Mac, and spat on His
hands, “can’t yer see I’ve been out to the
creek for a load an’ just as I got ’ere me
dray tipped ?” He paused to throw a few
shovelfuls of the road aboard. “What’ll yer
be sayin’ about a man next?” he grumbled.
* * * *
“Jobber”: Dropped into a wine-shop in
Bristol (Eng.) one day, while I was wait-
ing to come home, and asked for something
Australian. A bottle of white Burgundy
was produced. My eysight has always been
good, but it took me some time to find any
mention of Australia on the label. I tracked
it down at last—“ Product of Australia” in
tiny letters in the north-west corner of the
label. The quality was there all right, and
m 10 minutes I felt less homesick. Why in
the name of Peter isn’t the name of our
country blazoned in letters of gold on the
label? It looks as though we are trying to
hide the fact that we produce wine equal to
any in the world. And, as far as I can
see, the same applies to most of our pro-
ducts.
TIIE OLD BUSH HAWKER.
[For The Bulletin.]
A cloud of dust along the road,
A cloud of whirling sand,
The hawker lurches down the track
Behind his four-in-hand.
The horses jog in even gait,
And bow at every stride;
The hawker’s dog with mouth agape
Trots on the shady side.
The cans and buckets jangle loud,
The feeders bulge and sag,
And every rut jerks water from
The swinging, corkless bag.
The white tilt glistens in the sun,
The wheel-brakes groan and squeak,
The waggon rattles down the slope
And swings across the creek.
The bushman’s wife, raw-boned and gaunt,
Her sunken eyes are bright—
It is a market-day for her
When hawkers come in sight.
She lifts the pot-stick’s load of clothes
And drops them in the tub,
And loudly coo-ces through her hands
To someone in the scrub.
The haw'ker turns his team aside
And steers them through the rails;
Then works them round behind the shed
And camps beside the bails;
A freckled child, loud-voiced and shy,
And slender as a reed,
Yells, “Mother says when you’ve finyoked
Come in and have a feed.”
The boys come home in ones and twos
And stare as they arrive,
The father brings the cows along
At something after five;
He says: “Good day! It’s keepin’ dry,”
To greet the hawker man;
His dog is snarling with the dog
Beneath the hawker’s van.
The children stand and gaze and gaze
And peep beneath the fly,
And whisper of the treasures there
That mother oughter buy;
A neighbor’s wife comes on the scene
To get some eyes and hooks,
And takes a roll of colored print
And half a dozen books.
The eldest boy secures a pipe
(And samples 50 more),
A pair of spurs of make and shape
He’d never seen before;
And mother says, aside to dad,
“You oughter get some pants;
And what about a cake of stuff
To keep away the ants?”
A concertina goes to one,
And cakes of scented soap,
And “pearls” as big as pigeons’ eggs
Athread a silken rope;
And Muriel gets a “diamond” comb
To ornament her hair,
And fancy patent-leather boots
At twelve-and-six a pair.
Some black gins from the camp beyond
Come shyly creeping near
(The hawker’s dog goes out to meet
The mongrels at the rear) ;
And some buy colored handkerchiefs
To tie around the head;
The young ones crave for gaudy print
Or flaming turkey-red.
Tlie hawker folds and packs his wares
And puts them out of sight,
The customers say: “So long, then,”
And some of them “Goo’ night.”
The women gather ribbons up
That measure yards and yards,
The men their colored moleskin pants
And packs of playing-cards.
The children rise before the sun
To see the hawker start,
And help to bring the horses in
And then to grease the cart.
They watch the van dip fore and aft
And bump across the drains,
Then take the winding track that leads
To stations on the plains.
They climb on posts and watch and watch
The hawker out of sight,
Then turn to see a shining tin
That glitters in the light.
They search the camp and round about
To find what they can find
Amongst the paper-scraps and straw
The hawker left behind.
x.s.w.
JIM GRAHAME.


OU R years’careful develop-
-1 merit (backed by over 80
years’ experience in handling
rubber) were devoted to the new
Michel in Universal Tread
before it was offered to the
public for what it is: a
REALLY effective rubber non-
skid of exceptional wearing
qualities.
A large flat-bearing surface
contributes much to its wonder-
ful durability. It has all the
easy-riding qualities and “life”
for which Michelin productions
are so famous. In the non-
skid feature of its extra thick
tread every advantage, both of
raised and suction types of non-
skid, is fully developed.
For REAL Tyre Service—
REAL mileage—REAL
economy—there is nothing
to match the
Recommended
by all
Practical
Motormen.
'!)
t
4
a
o
/
/
Sold by all Dealers
who study
QUALITY.
MICHELIN
Universal Tread.


A CONTRACT IS A CONTRACT
DYES.
THE reputation of our Pyramid Aniline
Colors has been established during- a
period when it has not been easy to live
no to our standards. The quality of our
Pyramid Aniline Colors is as firmly fixed
to-day in the minds of buyers as our slogan
“A Contract is a Contract.”
Every shipment of our Pyramid Aniline
Colors is tested to see that it conforms to
our standards before it is allowed to go
forward. We will. send our complete Dye Catalogue on request.
Specialists in the export of American chemicals.
Importers of raw materials for American industries.
y.A BUSH, BEACH & GENT Inc.,
80 Maiden Lane, Holbrook Building,
New York, U.S.A. San Francisco.
'Cable Address (Both Offices) “Beachfred.”
BUSH, BEACH a GENT me.
New York. ~ SanFrancisco.U.SA.
iiMiliniiiiiinifiiiiifiiiliitiiiiiiiiiiiiitliiiilKMiiiiititiiiiiiimiiiimiiiiiimnimiiiiiiimiiiiiiiitiiimiKiiiiihiti
TRY IT AND TRUST IT.
When your stationer shows you the Onoto Safety Foun-
tain Pen—write a word or two with it. You will be sur-
prised at the ease with which it slips over tne paper. It
is an ideal writing implement. But that is not all
the Onoto
—Fills itself in a flash from any ink supply
—Never leaks and never splutters nor scratches
—ls the only Self-Filling Pen in which Ink
Pellets can be used.
Really it is worth while to insist on having an Onoto Pen, It costs
you only 17/-. Get one to-day at any good stationers, jewellers
or stores.
Manufacturers: Thos. De La Rue & Co., Ltd., Bunhill Row,
London E.C. Managing Agents: Norman Baker
& Lonrhurst. Svdnev and Melbourne.
17/-
arid Upward!.
Self-Filling - -
Safety Fountain
Ask for Onoto Ink—-Best for all Pens.
Cheap Labor.
A PLAY IN TWO ACTS.
[For The Bulletin.]
[The curse of Ireland for 700 years of its history
was Saxon slavery. The Saxon was easily caught,
worked well and could endure hardships. Ihe slave-
traders were mostly Norse; and the great slave-
market was Copeland Island, off the coast of Down.
The priests fought hard against the system; but the
stock argument of the slave-holder was that the
inferior intellect of the Saxon made him the natural
slave of the Celt.]
Act I.
A small harvest field near a river-hank
in Ireland in the year 150 a.d. Beyond is a
glimpse of high mountains, blue in the sun-
shine. Con and Padraig are cutting oats
with reap-hooks. Brigid and an old woman
are binding sheaves and putting them up in
stooks. Far aioay a horn is heard blowing.
Con : ’Tis MacCaura’s horn blowing and the
dogs going out in the whins and heather.
Padraig ( straightening his back and stand-
ing in the corn) : ’Tis a fine day for the
hunting, and us working like bond slaves
in a field.
Con : ’Tis our father’s way, and us wn-h
good bread to eat every day and a soft
bed to lie down on. Why would we
want to be hunting and the ripe corn to
cut ?
Padraig : Is it good for a man to have no
pleasure in his life at all? Will you
look now at Brigid, and her a rich man’s
daughter, spoiling her fine hands with the
work a slave could do better?
Con :Is it slaves you want? Our father
will have no slave at all. Why would
we bring the Sassenach here to make him
fetch and carry for us when we have
strong backs to do our own work?
Brigid : ’Tis no hardship at all to them,
surely, for they are fed with beef. The
saints gave them too little sense to do
things for themselves; and it is for us to
tell them what to do. We have the
thoughts and they have the strong hands.
Wh3>’ would we do the work if they can
do it?
Con ( stooping again in the corn and ply-
ing his hook) : ’Tis no hurt at all a little
good work will be doing us. I would
rather cut an acre of corn than look in
the ill face of a Sassenach made to do it
against his will.
Brigid: ’Tis no thought at all you have for
your sister, Con; and all the neighbors’
daughters this day sitting down making a
good talk of the dancing and the weddings
and the people coming and going to mass.
Padraig : With one brooch of gold our
father could buy four big men to do what
we would tell them.
Con {looking back from his work) : Four
big men that would come here wfith a
chain on them and hate us every hour of
all the day.
Padraig : Would their hating hurt us, and
them with only the sense of a brown cow?
Brigid : If they hated us itself, it would
make us laugh the better because we are
stronger than they are. Here is our
father coming down with a tune in his
mouth and no thought for whether we like
standing on stubble or not.
Shan, an old man but upright as a poplar,
comes in whistling.
Shan : ’Tis the fine day and the good work.
God bless the sweet bread in the husk. A
full harvest is better than the winning of
a king’s fight.
Padraig : ’Tis well you have the light heart,
and you making slaves of your own sons
and daughter.
Shan ( laughing) : Slaves, is it? Was ever
a slave had corn of his own and the ears
of it white and soft in his hand? {Re
pulls a head of oats and examines it.)
Padraig : Why wouldn’t you be buying four
Sassenach slaves to do the work? ’Tis
behind the times we are, and all the neigh-
bors lifting no hand to do anything at all.
What is a Sassenach for but to work?
Sure, didn’t God give us the good brains
to sit down and watch them sweating in
the sun?
Shan : ’Tis a poor thing if an Irishman
wouldn’t cut his own corn and plough his
own field.
Padraig : Why would he dirty his hands to
do it, and a Sassenach to be bought for half
the price of a cow?
Shan : ’Twould be a dear bargain to have
one of them under my roof.
Brigid : Och, and are they not under the
King’s roof, and him using them to build
up the rath and make roads through the
woods? Is it we must be prouder than
the King?
The Old Woman : Ochanee, for the day
the like of them ever came here with their
big bodies and their slow wits!
Brigid : Do you be quiet. What would it
matter to you at all, only to ease your old
back of hard work?
Shan : She is right, Brigid; and it is for
you to keep quiet. How would the sweet
bread of Ireland be for the stranger?
They have brought him here to do the
work. How would it be if he got tired
of work and took up a spear in his hand?
Paijraig ( after a burst of loud, laughter ) :
Is it fight you mean? Would a Sassenach
fight? Would a cow play the pipes? ’Tis
three times he would be killed before ne
made up his mind which end of the spear
was sharp.
Con ( standing up in the corn) : No. but
they fought too well with O’Brien at the
great stones of Keelawn.
Shan : ’Tis no heed whether they fight or
run away; but how would an Irishman
fight and him not making his arm strong
with the work of the land? Slaves is
it you want? Would you have the fields
grow corn to feed two Sassenach strangers
for one man that God made with a broad
head? Where will your big slaves get
their wives? Would you want the kiss
of a Sassenach, Brigid?
Brigid f drawing herself up) : Would I be
wanting the kisses of pigs, father, any
time at all in the day?
Shan ( laughing) : It is what I was think-
ing, maybe: and would you give the good
land to them you could not think of
without throwing up your head high? Let
it be Ireland for Ireland’s childer all the
long years; and how would that be with
the stranger feeding the cows and cutting
the corn?
Con (standing up and facing them) : ’Tis
little corn will be cut if there is no one
working but me only.
Shan : 'xis a true word. Get to your hook.
Padraig; and you, Brigid, get yourself
the fine look in the sun doing the work
your mother would sing over. Slaves, is
it? Sassenach slaves! Bad cess to the
first Irishman that ever gave a good cow
for a bad thought!
As the curtain falls a far-off cry is heard
from the Minn Fein Parliament meeting in
1919: “Ireland for the Irish."
Act 11.
A dry paddock enclosed by a barbed-wire
fence. A blue haze of grass fires fills the
air. Withered pumpkin stems cover patches
of the ground. In the centre is a small
pumpkin nestling among half-dry leaves.
Place: The Northern Territory of Aus-
tralia.
Time: 1919. Smith and Jones, visitors
from the South, come in.
Jones : This is the spot. I wanted to show
you that pumpkin.
Smith : Well, there’s nothing very remark-
able about it.
Jones : Nothing, except its cost. It took
exactly one thousand pounds in hard cash
to raise that second-class vegetable.
Smith : Phew ! The devil it did ! But I’m
not much surprised. There is no chance
at all for the Territory while the absurd
idea is maintained that it can be run by
expensive white labor.
Jones : I’m afraid I’m. coming round to your
view of the situation. I fell in with the
idea of white labor, as against colored,
when it seemed to be proved that the white
man could do all the black could do and
do it better.
Smith : Well, so he can; but experience
shows he won’t. In a climate like this I
can’t blame him ; and, anyhow, we can’t
spare our white men for the task. Let
them supply the brains and put this splen-
did asset to profitable use by directing the
efforts of the coolie. It’s plain common
sense.
Jones : I wonder. Of course, it’s a sort of
slavery. I don’t know how far we’re justi-
fied in makinsr the black man work for us.
Smith : Oh, there you’re off on the missionary
tack. My dear chap, you can’t think of
these colored races as possessing the feel-
ings that we have. They have always been
driven to work ; and if we feed and house
them well, what have they to complain of?
A Chinaman shambles across the paddock
and pauses to look at the pumpkin.
Smith : Look at that fellow now. What does
he think of these attempts of the white
man? We could have half a million of his
relatives here in five years and make the
Territory the garden of the Common-
wealth.
Jones: Hanged if I know! It looks like the
most promising road, now that the White
Australia policy is practically on the
scrap-heap. They’ve tried the other way;
but, frankly, I can’t like the idea of Asiatic
immigration. If these chaps once got a
footing here in any number we might have
a bitter war to get them out.
Smith: War? Good Lord, you don’t really
imagine they would fight? Why, they
don’t know one end of the gun from an-
other. Fight! What a poor opinion you
must have of Australian brains if you
think we couldn’t keep them in order.
While Smith is speaking the Chinaman
puts the pumpkin in his basket; and, unseen
by the others, goes off at a shambling trot
towards the gate.
Jones : I don’t know. Numbers count in
these things. Our brains and energy are
the product of hard work. If _ once our
sons got into the habit of sitting about
directing Chinamen and Indians and lost
grip with work itself, would they be able
to maintain themselves as fighters?.
Smith : Oh. that idea’s absurd. Race is the
thing that counts. We must always
be superior to these Asiatic peoples.
Jones: Race? That’s just it. What sort of
a race will ours be? God, man, I have a
daughter and so have you. Think of those
girls marrying things like that chap who
crossed the paddock just now. Hello!
He’s vanished.
Smith : But who suggested our girls ever
marrying Asiatics? We don’t marry them
in India. The Dutch don’t in Java.
Jones: Don’t they? I thought half-castes
were rather plentiful over there.
Smith : Oh, I don’t know about that; but
it’s plain we need not marry them. They
■would be simply our servants for a few
years to do our bidding while we devoted
ourselves to the higher tasks.
Jones : I wonder. Isn’t our highest task to
work our own land with our own hands
and brains?
Smith : With our own brains, rather. Look
what we’ve failed to do with -our own
hands. Look at that pumpkin. Hello!
It’s gone. By Jove, there’s White Aus-
tralia for you. Raised one pumpkin at a
cost of a thousand pounds, and then left
it to be stolen!
Jones : There’s colored Australia for you.
That Chinaman took it!
As the curtain falls, there is a far-off and
failing cry of “Australia for the white man's
children ” borne upon the breeze from the
south-east. ,
David McKee Weight.
The Tragedy of Cedar.
[For The Bulletin.]
THE history' of cedar-cutting on the east
coast of Australia since the convict
axemen felled the first trees in the
scrubs of Illawarra, then known as the Five
Islands, would make interesting reading. But
it can never be complete, for the material
is not available. Only a fraction of the his-
tory so far as it relates even to Queens-
land can be written. It would have
made a romantic story. In the penal days
gangs were sent either from the stations
where Brisbane stands to-day, or from the
branch settlement of Stradbroke Island, on
the site of the present Dunwich, to cut cedar
in the scrubs of the Logan, where it had
been discovered by convicts who had been
brought for the purpose from Illawarra.
In 1842 free men entered the business ; and
soon there was cutting on the Logan and
Nerang, on the Tweed River and the Pine,
at Maroochie, and on the Blackall Range.
The timber was very eccentrically dis-
tributed. It grew on all the rivers south
from Brisbane along the coast to the Hun-
ter in N. S. Wales. North of Brisbane it
was found on all the rivers to the Mary ;
then there was no sign of the tree until
north of Cardwell—on the Tully, Liverpool
Creek and the Moresby, Johnstone, Mui-
grave, Barron, Mossman, Daintree and
Blomfield rivers. It is peculiar to the
figtree scrubs of the coast and is un-
known west of the Dividing Range, and
grows only on the richest scrub soils, either
on the alluvial flats of rivers or far up the
slopes and ravines of scrub-covered hills.
It grows only in N. S. Wales and Queens-
land, being unknown in the other States.
In the year 1878 a full-rigged ship of
1059 tons, called the Merchant, belonging
to Moss, of Melbourne, loaded half a mil-
lion feet from the Daintree River, said to
be the best cargo of red cedar ever cut in
Australia. It was got by Freshney, Dun-
can, McLean, Terence Ahern and party.
They had a narrow escape from being all
killed in an attack by the blacks. Ahern
was speared through the chest, but they got
him to Cooktown, and he recovered and was
well known in after years as a partner
with O’Rourke and McSharry, railway con-
tractors. The Merchant had a crew of 25,
and Captain Quinn had his wife, two chil-
dren and a stewardess on board. The ves-
sel’s trouble began when she struck on
Kennedy Reef, outside Brooke’s Island.
Captain Lake, in the Victoria steamer,
towed her off, and Captain Dwyer came from
Melbourne with a diver and patched her
up. Captain Foulis, present harbor-master
in Cairns, strongly advised Quinn to get
out through Trinity opening, ahd he evi-
dently started to go there; but no more
was evei' seen or heard of him or of anybody
else on board. A cyclone struck the Mer-
chant almost as soon as her voyage began,
and much of her cedar was washed ashore
in Ramsay Bay, on the outer coast of Hin-
chinbrook Island.
It was the most unlucky cedar ever
shipped. In the attempt to salvage no less
than four vessels were wrecked —the barque
Harriet Armytage, the Charlotte Andrews,
the schooner Belle and the brig Rebecca
Jane. The Rebecca Jane managed to load
and get away, but was wrecked on Bramble
Reef, where the brig Maria was lost in
1872. The Merchant must have been lost
not far from Dunk Island, and yet none of
her wreckage was ever found, though the
cedar came ashore at various points on the
coast. Captain Foulis took a load of sawn
timber in the schooner Ceara from Towns-
ville to Port Douglas in 1878, and on his
return he was bailed up for ten days at
False Cape, unable to round Cape Grafton,
and when he got to Townsville he
heard of the loss of the Merchant. Three
years afterwards he picked up at various
parts of the coast, from Ramsay Bay to
Port Douglas, a cargo of cedar from the
Merchant and Kate Conley, and sold it in
Melbourne in one lot for £2700. Then he
went back and picked up another cargo. The
Merchant’s cedar to-day would be worth
over ten thousand pounds.
Tlife Kate Conley loaded cedar at Cairns,
cut by Jim Toohey, Arthur McGlone, John
Mann and party, the first men who cut cedar
in the Cairns district. (Jim Toohey is still
a resident of Cairns.) The schooner went
out and disappeared in the same tornado
that wrecked the Merchant, and no trace
of her was ever found until Dr. R. L. Jack,
with an exploring and prospecting expedi-
tion in the. Cape York Peninsula, found her
copper-sheeted hull on the beach of Temple
Bay. On her, too, the captain had his wife
and a stewardess, and there was reason to
believe that the women, or one woman, got
ashore, and possibly some of the men, and
their fate was such as would have made it
better for them all to have been drowned.
Two miles before reaching the coast Dr.
Jack saw sheets of copper from the vessel
in a blacks’ camp.
A schooner called the Hopeful—after-
wards famous in the Kanaka trade —loaded
with cedar, ran ashore in the mouth of
Liverpool Creek in Rockhampton Bay, and
was abandoned. She was sold by auction
in Townsville for £4O to Burns, Philp and
Co., who sent up 20 men. They warped her
out and took her and all her cedar cargo to
Townsville. It was a grand investment.
A barque called the Naval Brigade went
to Townsville with the first immigrants.
Captain Lawson got a scratch crew to-
gether, went north for a cargo of cedar, and
lost the ship on the low Franldyn Island,
off the mouth of the Mulgrave.
The aborigines regarded the cedar-tree
(Yoogoo and Wanggurriga) as sacred;
they would not use it for any purpose, nor
even climb it for animals, nor make a scar
on the bark; they predicted that terrible
disasters would overtake anyone who injured
a cedar in any way. The awful tragedies
involved in the cutting of the timber appear
almost to give a coloring of plausibility to
the tradition.
On the Atherton tableland twenty-five
million feet were cut before anyone could see
how it was ever to reach the coast. The
owners held the entirely illusive belief that
the first flood would take it all down the
Mazzlin and Peterson creeks, thence, down
the Barron and over the falls to the sea. A
boom was built across the river about two
miles from the mouth to catch the logs
which never came dowrn, and the first mass
of driftwood snapped the obstruction like
a thread. Only three or four logs went
over the falls, and they -were useless yvhen
they came out of the gorge of the Barron.
No more than about a million feet of all
that cedar was ever recovered, and that was
only possible after the railway had
made it accessible. Captain Fotilis got the
most of it out in 1892-3-4. Twenty-four
million feet were left to perish in the scrub
or among the jagged rocks in the channels of
the Barron and the creeks to which the teams
had drawn the logs. That wasted cedar
would to-day be worth about half a million
pounds. It was a dead loss to everybody
concerned, except the wages men, chiefly
Kanakas, and the teamsters. Burns, PhilP
and Co. lost about £20.000, and Captain
Foulis and Blair, of Melbourne, dropped
another £7OOO in the unprofitable venture.
There is still some cedar left in the Ather-
ton country, and on the heads of the Moss-
man, Daintree and Blomfield rivers, but
unless planting is done it is certain that ex-
tinction is only a few years ahead. Cedar
is not a tree which grows rapidly; it would
not be fit for the mill in less than 40 years,
unless as a younger tree with light color and
no grain. The grain and rich color do not
come till the tree is at least three, feet in
diameter. It will only grow successfully
in scrubs and on the best of soil; and as
rich .scrub land is not likely to be kept to
grow trees that are not sufficiently matured
in 40 years to have a marketable value, what
prospect is offering in the future of cedar?
One of the most beautiful and durable of the
world’s woods, one from which even a valu-
able medicinal oil is extracted, appears
doomed.
A. Meston.


*7+
V/t
*
V*-
w
<-E
v*fc
s
a
vir
*£✓<*
t •^C’:-V‘o-.:>'•'>?'■ jfl
,*V>-
ft
v*.>
V *.«>*, •-.';* * Wjl
; •/ir ■
yvr~/i$
v. *«'*?*?/
* : * •?*&*•*€ ,
ft
V*>f
V- j :^";-!-.i?
'#> • /'###' ff;S^
f vV=
>* •**
r>
*
/ ■>
*'/ vr» <-v? •?> > v ; f
•-•<.,/.(•. .•„ v ;\V-S?'#
V ♦•;.
vfei
■-VV vA'-;
U- -f ~-V-i
''"''t ijjS
mM
• . V .**> > * v^ c ' •*
-••> .*!
:. v*
VV- ■ ; '
s*?*#£».>!
*£.- ••'„>.-;,>y
«. • v' . >
: y
r'- v v V : --y r-'"^ s
•&7&m
!*« > /*.
• '*• • V
';-y.
; . ; >• •>*.
•*' t V-- • V? /f ■ '
••H* $ ■c-.y-j V
-.j ri?' •:'■••<•’'; ■' ;
S.i .^.•SUK'-:
v'K\
; s
‘h' :>£*'/i-<V
“W ••'•
iy#m
£&£&!
#3l!
■tea
■3s^
PVj
■;*\3?
: XA. >,«
1 (Jtl'r'i)'-#/'
i <•»>/**•.; .*
v.vt;
lilt
s*s#^
,£'• ;V.Vr.V‘* l '7
Iv
m.
£’'■£:'- V.A
&S#B
«|p
\
v.' •<
/ . */ Sht '
■ -Yc-Vt* •<-, >V '
s»«®?-ar •
\T“ #
»
r-y’is
'K'yiwS *.
. ! : X
Ss*
'• ysi''Vs*i<cy .it 5
iii
ro'
7.
.•V< >
tyf.sy. Y . >;■ • *:s / tf,
Wm
%r|
i 4«
S&;
:^X
tu^Me*\iJZUu.'i£xf
(< * £ ;* •'■• *.»•V'SCir*’
Price
Out o’Doors
Ride the road of the great Outdoors!
Be healthier, happier—drive an Overland.
A model of your very heart’s desire is included in the complete range of
Overland motor cars. There is a car that will make you proud yet will meet
your purse.
For you cannot find greater value. The huge production of Overlands
makes possible vast economies, and unusual benefits to you.
Look at an Overland a glance will convince you of its
excess value. Ask for the “85 Four” model, for example (see
illustration). There is nothing in the world like it for all-’round
utility. Big four-inch tyres, great reserve engine power, fine
appearance; simple control, comfortable, long lasting. And it is
completely equipped ready for the road.
A demonstration and catalogues are obtainable from
Australian
Distributors
GARRATTS LTD., Sydney
KELLOW-FALKINER PTY. LTD,, Melbourne
AUTO-CARS LTD., Adelaide
EAGER & SON, Brisbane
\ANDERSON & ADAMS LTD., Perth
H. G. HEATHORNE & CO- LTD., Hobart.
\A. HATRICK & CO., Wanganui, N.Z.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION,
Christchurch, N.Z.
WILLYS-OVERLAND, Inc,
2779 Toledo, Ohio, U. S. A.
Immediate
Delivery.


Write
THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE
(STATE GUARANTEE) ACTS AS
EXECUTOR, TRUSTEE, ADMINISTRATOR, ATTORNEY and AGENT.
Expert, Efficient and Economical Management.
3i- call for full particulars. CULWtJLLA CHAMBERS, 67 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
" T- W. GARRETT, Public Trustee. '
r
fig
DTi
bOORD &, SON
t o«DON, ENGLAND W
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
Swift & Company JL,tU., Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St.,
Sydney.
Insure with AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
Head Office: Corner PUt
&i King Streets, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: 50 Queen Melbourne. 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
FIRE. & ACCIDENT INSURANCES EFFECTED.
PROMPT SETTLEMENTS. EQUITABLE DEALING.
V H. CARY. CAttiffftsn. G. HOWARD POPE. General Manager-
The Social Season
brings once again the demand for formal clothes,
which during the war-period were not in vogue.
But now, with the shortage of suitable materials,
it is difficult to obtain them.
The Peapes Ready-to-wear Dinner Jacket Suit,
carefully made of Diamond-dyed Black Dress
Coating with silk facings, is undoubtedly the
most economical value in Evening Clothes obtain-
able to-day. The style and make are correct.and,
the materials reliable.
Rea d y-t o-w ear Dinner Jacket,
Trousers and Vest £7
Peapes’ pay postage. Please state height, chest,
waist and inside leg measurements.
PEAPES & CO, LTD,,
Men's Outfitters,
309 & 311 George Street, Sydney,
\WM¥nMlk
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s Grand Opera
Criterion “Oh, Oh, Delphine!”
Palace Harry Lauder
TivolY “A Box o’Tricks”
Hoyt’S Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “High Jinks”
Royal “Lightnin’”
KiNg’s “Baddies”
Tivoli ..: “My Lady Frayle”
Hoyt’s De Luxe Lyceum Moving Pictures
Melba . Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Glacjarium Ice Skating
The J.C.VV. Grand Opera Co. kicked off
well on Saturday with the attractive double
bill —-“Cavalleria Rusticana” and “I Pagli-
acci.” The operas are handsomely presented
by the Firm, so there isn’t that haunting
suspicion of bailiffs in the wings. Last
time Sydney saw grand opera the scenery
looked as if it had been rescued from a
wreck, and every time the lovesick tenor
slapped his chest, dust and moths flew out
of it. The worst wigs looked as if the
more desperate members of the co. had torn
a doormat to pieces five minutes before cur-
tain-rise, and the Court costume of one
singing gent suggested that he had escaped
from a burning house after raiding his
wife’s wardrobe. Only the fanatical music-
lover can overlook shortcomings like these,
even when they have dingy lace on them.
Ordinary people came away from those by-
gone productions with the dreary sensation
“Oh, Oh, Delphine!”
at Sydney Criterion.
Reg Roberts sings of
love.
of having spent
two hours viewing
ruins. It was dirt-
cheap opera and
looked it. This
time it is still
cheap, but clean
to the last lick of
paiut. One note
of feminine criti-
cism should settle
all doubts. On
Saturday night,
as poor little
Nedda fell like a
pink butterfly
beneath Canio’s
avenging dinner-
knife (they keep
their household
cutlery like that
in Italy), a
trembling finger
in the d.c. pointed
at the dying girl’s
legs and the voice
of the critic
whispered, “Those
stockings couldn’t
have cost a penny
less than two guineas !” If that’s how the
.T.C.W. people dress poor strolling players,
their dukes should be dazzling.
* * * *
Leah Myers, as Santuzza, the grief-
stricken heroine of “Cavalleria,” captured
her audience early. She is an intellectual
actress, has considerable magnetism, and her
high mezzo-soprano was used sjdlfully. But
the Australian girl disappointed her Austra-
lian audience by singing in Italian. Lolo
(Thelma Carter) used English, and so
dropped an occasional hint as to what all
the trouble was about. Her acting was a
little uneven. Rosa Carrodus, as Lucia,
the old mother, tottered appealingly, and in
spite of her great age and grey wig let the
back row of the stalls have every syllable.
Vittorio Lois was a slim and gallant figure
in the Little Lord Fauntleroy costume of
Turiddu, the young Sicilian beau who wears
a knife in his sash but can’t use it much.
His ringing tenor is rather hard; but the
drinking song did some damage to the Dry
Australia cause before he went out to be
slain by Alfio, the total abstainer, for
reasons of hatred. Raymond Loder seemed
muffled and uncertain in this part, and kept
one eye fixed on conductor Slapoffski’s
batonless hand. He had stepped into the
side-whiskered part at short notice. For a
first night the big orchestra was pleasantly
even.
In “Pagliacci,” Balboni, as the ill-
tempered Canio, sang tempestuously and
acted with tremendous vigor. Baritone
Carl Formes, red-wigged as Tonio, put his
clown's hat on the floor and roused the
house with the dramatic Prologue, capitally
sung without effort. Nellie Beach was a
graceful Nedda, with a tendency to shrill
now and then. Browning Mummery
(Peppe, the harlequin) was sure and slick
in his work, and the lilting serenade came
sweetly over the footlights. Fred Collier
hud all his fine chest notes about him, but
acted awkwardly as Silvio, the lover of little
Nedda. Perhaps he saw Balboni’s dinner-
knife hanging over him.
* * * *
“La Boli&me,” on Monday, brought on
Amy Castles as Mimi, and showed that this
more experienced Australian carried heavier
vocal guns than the girls who had done so
creditably on Saturday. Hopelessly healthy
and plump, she wisely didn’t attempt to
hit the gay, coquettish note, but meekly
“The Officers' Mess,”
at Melbourne Tivoli.
Peggy Peat, under-
study to Vera Pearce,
as Kitty.
accompanied her
plump poet and
his ridiculous hat
on a very respect-
able evening ex-
cursion. (Tickets
Is. Band on
board.) You felt
that the young
people were quite
safe with this
sedate pair. The
voice of Walter
Wheatley, as poet
Rudolpho, could
have been clearer,
but he is a cap-
able actor and his
grief is allteged to
have started the
sympathetic tear
down many a
maiden cheek. (See
daily papers.) His
three hard-up Bo-
hemian friends
willingly backed
all his bills and
coos with Amy.
Raymond Loder
(as painter Mar-
celle), Alfredo Val-
enti (philosopher
Celline) and Fred
Collier (musician Sehaunard) were all up
to sample. Valenti on his way back to the
pawnshop farewelled his old coat in serious
vein. Tom Minogue struggled like a musi-
cian with the two foolish j’obs (landlord and
old beau), and useful Nellie Leach frivolled
tunefully again as Musetta. “II Trovatore”
is due (for the second time) on Friday night.
First performance of “Faust” on Saturday.
Stella Power, who goes to join Melba in
Europe, raised her clear featherweight
soprano in farewell at Sydney Conserva-
torium on Thursday. Gowned in softest
white satin, 'the songbird poured out just
the correct liquid refreshment for a prima
donna’s programme. “Lo Here the Gentle
Lark” was easily her best effort, but Stella’s
placid contentment cotton-woolled the “Ah
Fors e Lui” number. However, she handed
out the lighter fare with great charm and
sweetness. Philip Wilson. Henri Staell.
Henry Penn and flautist Park helped the
programme out.
❖ ❖ ijt
Harry Lauder is still serving out kilts,
heather, haggis, whisky, cold tea, cold par-
ritch, hot patriotism an’ all that sor-rt of
thing, ye ken, with just a wee dash of
sentiment to make it gang hame. (It’s im-
possible to write plain English after listen-
ing to eight Lauder songs with patter.)
The great little comedian is now in his fifth
week at Sydney Palace, and the people are
being solemnly war-rned that he won’t be
there for ever. And when he closes, the
bright little Window (first name Muriel)
will cease to twinkle.
Muriel Starr sobs her farewell to Sydney
at the Royal on Friday night. It will be
done in “The Silent Witness.”
“A Box o’ Tricks” (with Jack Waller
sitting on the lid) is still snaring the Tivoli’s
share of Sydney theatregoers. Some people
are going there as a sort of pick-me-up after
grand opera; others are going because all
tLe wild horses that Syd Kidman is going
“The Officers' Mess,”
at Melbourne Tivoli.
Celia Ghiloni as Mrs.
Makepiecc.
to presently shoot
wouldn’t drag them
to the best grand
opera ion earth:. The
Waller musicians
ripple some fine
music; but you
never get a couple
of hours of it in
one avalanche.
“Oh, Oh. Del-
phine !” which was
such a success in
Sydney at the be-
ginning of the year,
re-appeared at the
Cri. on Saturday
night. The Royal
Comics were in
tremendous form,
and their represen-
tation of French
life and manners
astounded many
experienced Diggers
in the audience.
Phil Smith, Gladys
Moncrieff, Leslie
Holland and the
others will continue
to interpret Gallic
customs till next
Tuesday nigh t,
when this eo.’s Sydney season ends.
At Sydney Crystal Palace and Strand all
the naughty ladies who helped to make
history are indicted, though every credit is
given to their personal charm. “Woman” the
betrayer passes in review from Mother Eve
onwards. Charlie Chaplin’s missus explains
what happens “When a Girl Loves,” at the
Lyceum, and the same sheet reveals the
secret of “The Man Who Wouldn’t Tell.”
Mary Pickford takes a milk bath for her
complexion at the Haymarket and Hoyt’s,
and with the aid of the toilet hints in the
Sunday papers causes a whole regiment to
become her beau. “Johanna Enlists” is
the title for Her Ringlets this week.
Following on, Lila Lee sails the high seas
looking for uncle and uncle’s buried
treasure. She’s twin-sister financially to
W. A. Holman.
* :!: *
Another Melbourne show
Thete are few performances by the “Twenty
Melbourne Painters” at the Athenaeum that are
worth lingering with. The most attractive exhibitor
is the miniaturist, Bernice Edwell, whose searching
and patient art reveals traces of character in the
most unexpected faces. One of her real triumphs
is Henry Gyles Turner, wherein the solemn egotism
of a social quidnunc is demonstrated with veracity.
After close study of the tiny portrait, one believes
that his second name- is really Giles. In her large
collection of water-colors Mrs. Barlow seizes some
pleasing natural effects and records them agreeably.
Miss Merfield is represented by seven subjects, but
the artist is becoming rather eccentric in her con-
viction that Nature’s whole duty is to supply decora-
tive panels. Miss Dora Wilson shows half a dozen
effusive pastels, and of Miss Sutherland’s small
quartette nothing is exceptional bar a nude’s plain-
request for clothing. Miss E. M. Sweatman has a
highly-colored portrait of Professor Osborne; Miss
Bale suspends an old gentleman in a chair without
quite seconding Miss Sweatman’s demand for the
Fire Brigade. Miss James’s hunt for Poetry and
Beauty in Melbourne streets leads to the appearance
of several clues of not much importance. A. E.
Newbury’s big portrait is strong and wilful; his
defiant art leaves an old stager like A. Colquhoun
lagging among the also-rans. Yet Colquhoun’s paint-
ing is still a cheerful memento of an honorable past.
W. Frater and R. McCann are two of the shy and
shiinking violets that have bloomed to the condition
of cabbages in the cemetery of pseudo-realism.
Almost every one of these artists’ productions is a
pictorial prelude to goloshes and umbrellas. Geo.
Colville (late A.1.F.) is easily the best of the
others, and Mrs. Tweddle isn’t—her whole aim in
art is seemingly best expressed in that ancient
ballad: “Won’t You Buy My Pretty Flowers?”
“Oli. Boy !” back for a brief scamper at
lUeibourne Majesty’s, gives The Bulletin
another chance to inspect Grade Lavers in
a principal part. Grade's demure pretti-
ness is an .excellent thing in Lou Ellen
Carter, and it is accompanied by an artless
unprofessional style which is a model for
exponents of ingenue roles. Flossie Lusk’s
idea of Gracie’s mamma is a miracle of age
m which Youth continues to have its fling ;
George Willoughby repeats the old clamor-
ous Judge who answers nocturnally to the
name of “Tootles”; and Cecil Bradley is
Jackie Sampson. The only negative' in
the scheme of decoration is still Field Fisher
as the melancholy Briggs. The valet’s coun-
tenance is suggestive of a Prohibitionist
who has made a face at a public-house and
kept the expression permanent. Next Satur-
day Fisher will remove all the stains of
Briggs from his character, and be a much
livelier apparition in a revival of “High
Jinks.”
* * *
At Melbourne Royal “Nothing But the
Truth” is again overworking the counten-
ance of M. B. Figman and giving no rest
to his hands and feet. If anything, he has
increased his “business” since the opening
season. With his present wealth of patter
and pantomime, he practically plays his part
twice. Figman seems essentially a vaude-
ville comedian. Though he may concede a
little to the demands of polite drawing-room
farce, he is probably true to himself in his
magpie shirt and pearl-buttoned boots. The
same gentlemen as before attempt to spoil
Figman’s record for unvarnished veracity,
but Mabel and Sable “of the Varieties” have
suffered a change for the worse. Lucie
Carter, originally Sable, has been promoted
to Nellie Wilson’s old part of Mabel, and
is merely a strident American Voice without
a single diminuendo. Nellie Payne is glad
but not gaudy in the brilliant plumage of
Mabel. Next Saturday “Lightnin’ ” is pro-
mised, and several new people will provide
the flashes thereof.
At Melbourne King’s “Daddies” has
become a trifle brighter for .the appearance
of Grade Dorran in the part vacated by
Margaret Nybloc. Grade’s spoilt-kid man-
ner rather stresses the childishness of Ruth
Atkins in the opening scene, but she de-
velops sentimentally in the third act and
at the finish earns her snuggle in the lovely
hero’s embrace.
* * *•
“The Officers’ Mess” is nearing the end
of its term at Melbourne Tivob On Satur-
day comes a revival of “Lady Frnyle.”
'!> 'l*
Dorothy Dalton in “Quicksands” is first
on the Iloyt programme in Melbourne this
week. Dorothy has an innocent hubby in
prison, and she has to indulge in some
vampire swagger in order to open the way
to freedom. “The Danger Zone,” another
Hoyt feature, introduces Madeline Traverse,
who promises to reach a high place among
movie divinities. Enid Bennett, with her
husband, Fred Niblo, directing hostilities,
demonstrates her unspoilt charms in a small
and humorous scuffle called “Fuss and
Feathers.” The Britannia’s principal claim
to notice is “Virtuous Wives,” wherein
Sassiety sniggers at a matron who is con-
sidered too chaste to be true. The Melba’s
main offering is “£5OO Reward,” a South
Sea romance filmed in Australia, with
Barry Lupino and Claude Flemming in the
principal parts.
** * #
Mclntosh is giving at Adelaide Royal a
first-in-Australia showing of an English
musical piece, “The Lads of the Village,”
and is competing against himself,; at the
Tivoli, with a Revival of the American “Fair
and Warmer.” In this Wilfrid Hilary and
Audrey Worth rise to their big chance as
the innocent pair who mix cocktails and
drink them like long-sleevers. The Majestic
bill remains much as before, song-ahd-dance
mainly,, with the nine girl Wonders' doing
a hurricane acrobatic turn. Wondergraph
pictures. have a quaint idea, Mack Sennet
burlesquing “East Lynne”; also the humors
of the crinoline era are recalled in a version
of the old Alcott story, “Little Women.”
At. .West’s “The Co-respondent” has an
original idea—-of a woman reporter being
sent out to investigate a divorce case in
which the most important figure is her own
ouite innocent self. Alice Brady at the
Pav. and Peggy Hyland at the Grand help
to make Adelaide forget that it has to walk
home, after the show, to a bedroom lit by
kerosene or candles.
E. J. Carroll and R. L. (“Snowy”) Baker
are about to give another much-needed lift
to made-in-Australia moving pictures. And
not before it was time. It is alleged that
there is a Federal film censor, to say
nothing of State censors of films, but, pre-
sumably, they get mislaid when some of the
unclean imported rubbish comes to hand.
Anyway, Carroll and Baker are going to
try the wholesome home-made article on the
Australian. They have engaged the well-
known producer Lucas and a few ex-
perienced mechanics from U.S. to give the
new industry an easier start. Outside that
everything is to be Australian—from the
idea of the picture to the screen it is thrown
upon. Outback life will be particularly
featured. “Ted” Carroll is sailing in Decem-
ber to arrange a scheme for exhibiting
the films in Britain, France, South America,
Japan and China.
GRAND OPERA.
The fiddles are twanging, the kettledrums banging,
The gifted soprano is shooting top-notes;
The solemn contralto, Maria Rialto,
Is urging the chous to crack their white throats;
The tenor and basso, compatriots of Tasso,
Are having a row witli the fierce baritone.
They’re making it willing and soon there’ll be kill-
ing
With bloodthirsty snorts from the Prussian trombone.
The maids are capricious, the men’s tempers vicious,
The costumes are quaint and the manners are bad;
No visible copper, staid, silent and proper,
Keeps watch, and knives gleam in the belt of each
lad;
So trouble, bad trouble, arrives at the double,
And someone goes down with a last ringing shout.
That’s one gone to glory. But please read the story—
Once in you will never guess what it’s about.
It’s rather a tax on the calm Anglo-Saxon
To beat the Italians at this funny game;
AVith gestures erratic and movements rheumatic
The Aussies get through, but there’s rarely a flame;
But Swelli, and Belli, and Owhatayelli
Behave as they would in a steaka-da-oyst;
Beneath that proud banner the grand-opera manner
Is practised all day round the cook’s kitchen hoist.
A curious mixture, it’s somehow a fixture
Wherever folk think life is rathe: too gay
And pay money gladly to take pleasures sadly
And clap as the victims are carted away.
For picture fanatics provide automatics,
But opera-lovers want only cold steel;
For one bob in silence you’re served with your
vi’lence,
For seven it’s dished with ten yells and a squeal.
N.S.W.
KODAK.


Let Springtime
Find You
Well Dressed.
II
\
ORDER NOW
A MURDOCH Suit to Measure,
75
We are showing a nobby lot of Spring Suitings—fine fabrics in neat designs,
English, Scotch and Australian Tweeds. Tailored in the Murdoch way, these
quality Suitings reveal style, smartness and distinction. Value and economy
are emphasised in Murdoch’s Suits —satisfaction is guaranteed or money refunded.
PLACE YOUR
ORDER TO-DAY
Write for bunch of pat-
terns —fill in the coupon
now. Other Murdoch
prices for Suits to Mea-
sure—
Ml; 95 1-, 110|-
Deik R,
MESSRS. MURDOCH’S IN PARK ST., LTD., SYDNEY.
Please forward, patterns of Spring Suitings at ....
Suit to Measure, with tape and self-measurement form.
Name
Address
Murdoch’s
in Park
St. Ltd.,
Sydney
et
Complete Outfitters for Men and Boys.”
10=INCH
DOUBLE = SIDED
BRITISH-MADE
10=INCH
DOUBLE-SIDED
3|-
EACH.
Fccflumbia^
bg Records
3|-
EACH.
A SELECTION OF 10-INCH
COLUMBIA DOUBLE-SIDED RECORDS
All at 3/- each.
1075
1719
1911
2290
2359
2426
2516
2561
2580
2660
2714
2732
2736
2752
2810
2826
- s II Trovatore—Anvil Chorus Ttena Military Band
II Trovatore —Selections llena Military Band
Treasure Waltz Accordion Solo, G. Diero
J My
Variety Polka .'.7.V..... Accordion Solo, G. Diero
“Pink Lady” Waltz Casino Orchestra
Interruptions Onestep Casino Orchestra
Lullaby Violin, ICTute and Harp
Silver Dewilrop Violin, ICTute, ’Cello and Harp
Federation March St.. Iljjcjo Colliery
Imperious March Si. Hilda Collieiy Band
II Bacio (Concertina Solo) Alexander Prince
Estudiantina Waltz (Concertina Solo) Alexander 1 mice
She Wandered Down the Mountain Side Itosina Buckman, soprano
Angels Guard Thee Rosina Buckman, soprano
Just Before the Battle, Mother Century Quartette
Comrades Century Quartette
The Song that Reached My Heart Edgar Coyle
The Vacant Chair Edgar Coyle
A Perfect Dav Carrie Ilerwin, contralto
The Pearl Cross .'.'.V Carrie Herwin, contralto
Frif , nd Hughes Macklin, tenor
Lorraine Hughes Macklin, tenor
A Rose, a Kiss, a Ring Geo. F. Murray and Quartette
The Roses Have Made Me Remember Geo. F. Murray and Quartette
Geo. Elliott and Chorus.
Geo. Elliott and Chorus
j it’s a Long Way Back to My Home in Kentucky
( You’d Never Know that Old Home Town of Mine
\ Oh, How She Could Yacki Hacki Collins and Harlan
( You’re a Dangerous Girl Jolson
5 Down Where the Swanee River Flows Cnity Quartette
( What Do You Want to Make Those Eyes at Me For? Unity Quartette
j Parted (Tosti) ;.... The Taylor Trio (Violin, ’Cello, Piano)
{ Sing Me to Sleep The Taylor Trio (Violin, Cello, Piano)
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR “COLUMBIA” RECORDS—
SYDNEY, N.S.W. —Grafonola, Ltd., Daking House, Itawson Place.
MEEIiOC T RNE. VIC., and TASMANIA. —Messrs. Hugo Wertheim Pty.,
Etd., 173 William Street, Melbourne.
BRISBANE, Q. —King and King, Etd.. Queen Street.
ADEEAIDE, S.A. —Cornell, Etd., 123 Pirie Street.
PERTH, W.A.—H. R. Firth, Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. —Arthur H. Nathan, Etd., Customs Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.—Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.—Webley Sons & Gofton, Ltd., 243 High Street.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.—Webley Sons & Gofton, Etd.
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.
Why the Pastoralist should buy
POWDER
SHEEP DIP
Because
Practical EXPERIENCE declares
THERE IS NONE BETTER ANYWHERE
“VALLO” is guaranteed
The Highest Possible Quality of Sheep Dip
Sheep kept PERFECTLY CLEAN,
SPLENDIDLY CONDITIONED, with
WOOL LUSTROUS and GROWTHY.
“VALLO” makes GOLDEN FLEECES and
wins GOLDEN REWARDS.
For Profitable Results use “VALLO.”
Supplied in Cases each containing Ten 101 b. Packets.
MANUFACTURED BY
A. Victor Leggo & Co.
Melbourne Sydney Brisbane
AGENTS:—
DANGAR, GEDYE & CO. LTD,, Sydney. BRABANT & CO., Brisbane.
CUMMINS & CAMPBELL LTD., Townsville. JAMES WARDLE & CO., Adelaide.
WALTER REID & CO. LTD., Rockhampton. MAIXOCH BROS., Perth.
FARMERS’ CO-OP. WHOLESALE FEDERATION (N.Z.) LTV., Wellington, N.Z.
PROCURABLE ALL STORES.
S'B'f'i
.7.6.5,-
French Lever Time-
piece, in Leather Case,
5 inches hisrh,
£7/10/-
French Lever Time-
piece, 4i inches high,
in Leather Case,
£6/10/-
French Lever Time-
piece, in Leather Case,
£5/10/-
Same in striker,
£lO/10/- and
£ll/11/-
French Clocks.
The clocks illustrated represent the finest timekeepers
that it is possible to produce. Gilt Brass, in a leather
case, for travelling purposes, fitted with extra specially
high-grade French Lever movements, and as accurate
as human ingenuity can make a clock, they form an
especially desirable gift. The Firm carry a large
selection in many designs, as well as other French Clocks
in Rosewood, Mahogany, Oak, etc.
WATCH & CLOCK CATALOGUE ON REQUEST*
Wcxl Srummonb & Co
344-346 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE.


ASK YOUR STOREKEEPER FOR
PnAUTO BRAND’’ f
EXTRA HARD
FLOOR VARNISH STAINS
T HE PERFECT FINISH FOR FLOORS.
“PERFECT” because they possess the three essential qualities:
■ Supreme Durability, withstanding the extra hard wear floors receive; freeworking- consistency that
4 requires no skill in application; and most artistic in finish.
tfnrr,
-FINE
SUPER
qurensland
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
TAUBMANS UNITED
SUPERFINE
VARNISHES
232 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
492 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
AGENTS:
CHAS. W. RILEY, Charlotte Street, BRISBANE.
L. G. ABBOTT & CO., Chesser Street. ADELAIDE.
WILSON & SHAW, Harris Street, WELLINGTON
m
With
K****sS
ass
FREE
TRIAL
BOTTLE
The Perfect
Emulsion
Prescribed by the Medical Profession.
Angier’s Emulsion is the most palatable, the most
cream-like, the most perfect of all Emulsions. Even the
most fastidious take it with pleasure, and it agrees
perfectly with delicate, sensitive stomachs. Those who
have found other Emulsions distasteful, should try
Angier’s, and note the difference; it always pleases.
Prescribed by the Medical Profession for twenty-five
years, it is a standard remedy of proved value, equally
useful for adults or children.
Send name and address, 4d. postage, and mention this paper.
ANGIER CHEMICAL CO., LTD , 233, Clarence Street, Sydney, IS.b.w.
| V IMPERIAL )
“C. Side” : The late Syd. James busked on
the English beaches and lived to be patronised
by churchwardens. Ben Fuller admits to
busking in his youth, and in black face, too!
The darky on the beach was the forerunner
of the Pierrot show, and that prefaced the
costume comedy party, which migrated event-
ually from the sand to the hity, chiefly to
enable it to play all the year round. Pelis-
sier’s Follies became famous in London, and
many fine performers of to-day can be
traced to a beginning in this type of show.
In Australia Bransuombe’s earliest
Dandies included Oliver Peacock (now in
“Katinka”), Hugh Walton (brother of the
Toy Soldier of “Goody Two Shoes”), and
Joe Brennan. Walton was thought good
enough for second comedian’s job in a
J.C.W. panto, and Brennan all but wore the
Dame’s skirts in the Tait-Bailey “Jack and
Jill.” Maud Fane came from this type of
entertainment. Managers now look to the
once-despised costume comedy party for
material to fill its fattest roles.
“Talord”: Passed out recently at Adel-
aide, Frank Rossmore, who was in the
cast of the Lord knows how many melo-
dramas produced in Australia during the
last 30 years. He joined Bill Anderson in
Adelaide a few months ago. but after being
left out of the bill of three successive bel-
lowdramas, the versatile old gentleman
languished and died —maybe of sheer dis-
gust.
“1 PAGLIACCI,” AT SYDNEY
MAJESTY’S.
Torfio (Carl Formes) views the results of
Augusto Balhoni’s carving.
“Smike”: ITred Esmelton, who is in
“Lightnin’ ” at Melbourne Royal, is another
Australian who found a big living in
America. Born at Avoca (Vic.), he crossed
the ; Pacific 20 years ago after a spell of
service in Maggie Moore’s co. The present
generation of movie students ought to be
familiar with his countenance, for it has
peered out of various films that have flashed
the smiles of Billie Burke on Australian
screens.
The only John Cosgrove has a naval
drama called “Jutland” ready for the pro-
ducer.
“Chevron”: Lionel Walsh, who secured
the touring rights of “The Better ’Ole,” is
tackling a big proposition in transport. The
curtailed rail services on many lines make
it bad for the touring manager, so Walsh
is putting his company on three motor-ears,
while the scenery uses a motor-lorry.
“S.T.S.”: Concerning the recent sugges-
tion that Julius. Knight scored mainly by
giving faithful imitations of the original
players he had seen in London, J can bear
witness that at least one of the persons most
interested would have found him Not Guilty.
Knight’s first and possibly greatest success
here was in “The Sign of the Cross.” Wilson
Barrett, the original Marcus Superbus, came
along with it later. It was very notice-
able that, in the many cases where Marcus
interrupts the proceedings in the nick of
time, Barrett mostly stole in. You just
became aware that lie was there. Knight,
on the other hand, made a sensational entry
each time, taking the centre of the stage
boldly. I mentioned the contrast to Bar-
rett. and lie was not a bit surprised. “Yes,”
he said, “I have never seen Mr. Knight play,
but they tell me he does make melodrama of
it.” As a matter of fact, Knight’s broader
methods always seemed to me more effective
—and probably not less artistic, though it
would have been sheer cruelty to say so
to Barrett, who had a frank and child-like
love of praise.
“Ox”: “Under the Red Robe,” which was
in .T. Knight’s first
Australian reper-
toire, has never had
a revival, although
it is not a heavy
production and the
cast is small. The
yarn goes that the
script has been
eaten by mice, but
I guess the firm
has got scared of
costume plays in
which heroines have
unpronounceable
names like Renee
de Cocheforet. This
dramatisation of
Hope’s novel had a
fine cast when first
produced here, with
Ada Ferrar play-
ing opposite the
Beauteous One,
George Majeroni as
the dumb Cion, and
“Oh, Oh, Delphine /”
at Sydney Criterion.
John Fordo as Uncle
Noel,
Cecil Ward, Cyril Keightley and the late
W. F. Hawtrey on the bill.
“Ox” : Sydney Alhambra once more tries
vaudeville, ‘this' time under Pugliese, who
first used it as a picture house. The
Alhambra has held out many inducements
to make the ghost walk. It was the first
house in Australia to experiment with a
mixture of variety artists and films, and the
first to chance “continuous vaudeville.”
There was no continuity about the flow of
patronage, however, and even a bathing-girl
competition failed to awaken enthusiasm.
Harry Rickards, in ’93, ran a minstrel first
part and vaudeville there, but after a fort-
night decided to stick to the Tivoli.
Peggy Pryde promises to speak up for the
“pommy” bride per medium of ditty and
dialogue. She got the idea on her trip to
Australia with the war brides —the only
way she could get here. “The shipping folk
wanted some horrible amount for a third-
class passage,” Peg says,-'.-“and then it was
doubtful whether I'd get away before the
end of the century.” So she bustled into
a meeting of military nobs, told them her
husband was a Digger, and demanded at
the point of her umbrella to be taken to
his country. “But, Miss Pryde,” they pro-
tested. “None of your ‘Miss Pryde’,” said
Peg; “I’m Mrs. Sergeant George Pearson,
of the A.I.F. Take me to him.” . And they
did. Peggy Pryde Pearson swears she has
said good-bye for ever to England. She
has an Australian husband and she means
to have an Australian home. She has just
acquired the title deeds of three building
sites at Jellicoe Park. Sydney, and a cosy
cottage will shortly rear its chimney-pots
on one of them. Meanwhile there is to be
a vaudeville tour with Fuller.
“Ivaylee” : Billy Bluegum has got himself
into vaudeville. A pair are now shaping
humorously in an act put together by the
Sisters Hardy, two Australians who are
looking toward America, where contracts
already await signature. Brother and
sister artists took photos of the native-bears
to the U.S.A., and, although managers there
hadn’t seen the girls nor the act, the appear-
ance of Billy settled the matter. One of
the bears in the act is six years old and has
lived most of his life in captivity. The pair
don’t do much except look natural, but 8.8.
is a born comedian and he doesn’t need make-
up or stage costumes. Even the vaude-
ville monkey requires trousers.
“Peter” : In addition to Margaret Anglin,
mentioned by “T.D.” (B. 7/S/’l9), Tilda
Brune Camilled in her own sombre tresses ;
and I fancy r Eugenie Duggan also made the
frail lady a brunette. Margaret Anglin
disliked the ornate sentimentality of
Camille, and only’ tried the character under
pressure. When the Firm advertised her
in the revival, she at first declined to attend
rehearsals, but the day before the opening
an eloquent appeal from the late J.C.W.
induced the actress, to report for duty.
Once determined to do the part, she became
interested enough to scour the city for suit-
able furniture and ornaments, and at curtain-
rise she was getting a little enthusiastic.
During the show her enthusiasm mounted to
her intellect, and she gave such a heart-
rending portrayal of the dying Flossie that
the stage staff went home with moist ban-
danas. Even the usually hardened orchestra
was quite overcome, and 100 points were re-
corded in the trombone.
“Early Turn” : If an enterprising Aus-
tralian manager ever takes “Make-Up’s” ad-
vice (B. 31/7/’l9) and ships a variety
crowd to London, he should see, first of all,
that his troupe is provided with original stuff.
Most of our home-grown turns and acts rely,
unfortunately, on imported songs, patter and
stage “business.” What the Australian
vaudeville patron sees or hears and applauds
has been pinched from England or America.
Australian vaudevillains are either too mean
or too lazy to get original matter. They do
not lack ability. If only they would be
patriotic and far-seeing enough to encourage
local writers they would stand a far better
chance of making good not only in London
but in any part of the world they cared to
visit. But the imported craze is in their
blood, so it’s no wonder such a small per-
centage are exported.
The attack has won the first round in the
prosecution of the Wondergraph Co. in
Adelaide for running a “lottery” at its pic-
ture show. The “lottery” was free: for 20
weeks one had to discover the name of some
film favorite out of jumbled letters. The
police argued that no skill worth mentioning
is needed to see that (for example)
“NFAEIN ARDW” means Fannie Ward;
and it was shown that out of 2002 com-
petitors 2331 were absolutely correct, that
answers were drawn from a revolving barrel
by a blindfolded girl in regular “consulta-
tion” style, and the first out got the £5O
first prize. The Court decided that not
enough skill was present to remove it from
the lottery class. An appeal was certain,
however the decision had gone, and a
nominal fine was registered. Wondergraph
had a somewhat different competition last
year, and with that the police did not inter-
fere.
“T. 0.1.”: Apropos John Drew (B.
10/7/T9). How many of him were there?
I remember one, famous in his Australian
day, who appeared in the late ’fifties as an
“Irish comedian from New York.” He made
his first appearance at the old Princess’s in
“The Irish Emigrant,” and made a hit right
off. Only once did he leave Irish comedy
when in Melbourne; that was on a special
night at the old Royal in Bourke-street, when
he appeared as Bob Acres in “The Rivals,”
with G. V. Brooke as Sir Lucius O’Trigger,
Sir William Don as Fag and J. C. Lambert as
Sir Anthony. Though each part was filled
by a star, the production was not a success.
Drew was erratic at times, and this was one
of the times. He it was who brought us
“Shamus O’Brien,” which he recited one
Sunday night. Amongst his audience was
James Hingston, “The Australian Abroad,”
who, I remember, offered me a guinea for a
copy of the poem—l had found it in the Dub-
lin University Magazine, in which the
author first published it. This John Drew
died in May. 1862, in New York. His
widow, an actress and manager, lived on until
’97.
“The Invisible Foe” has been filmed in
America, with Percy Marmont heading the
cast. He was the tall, grey-headed comedian
of “Fair and Warmer” and “A Little Bit of
Fluff,” and served his celluloid apprentice-
ship here as the Monk in George Marlowe’s
“Monk and the Woman.”
Dear B., — Re Mr. “O'Smith’s” par about
Sandow and Tom Ogilvie. Let no Poverty
Pointer shoot out his lips and say, “Lo,
this man lietli!” The story is quite true.
Tom at the time had his 10-year-old son
hitched to the plough, and was hilling
potatoes. I was there. —Yours. Dr, Nil.
“Absalom Smith” ; receipts sug-
gest that you cannot smash the villain’s top-
hat beyond repair nor blast the hero’s repu-
. tation * for ever. The Fullers have three
melodrama cos. and contemplate others,
Anderson has had a long run in Adelaide.
Lytton still attacks the country, and there
are Kate Howarde, King Cole and others. In
every instance the heroine walks bareheaded
in the snow to good business. The truth is
that sensational drama, for which everyone
prophesied extinction when the movies came
along, revived with the war—the biggest
melodrama of all. The Diggers’ personal ex-
periences proved that Arthur Shirley. Ben
Landeck, Walter Melville (Esq.). Walter
Howard and others who consistently dipped
their pens in blood didn’t overdo it. A will
proved in London recently lmd been written
on the battlefield in blood. George Cross did
that on the stage before the Kaiser ever
thought of getting beaten.
HIS Q UALIFICATWISTS.
First Citizen : “Sixty quid a tecelc, and a
rotten actor!”
Second Citizen : “Yes; but, remember, he
comes from England, doesn't lie?"
“T. D. Emdee”: Samuel Pepys, tailor’s
son, exquisite, philanderer, dramatic autho-
rity and diarist, is credited with having in his
later years deplored the decadence of acting,
just as we old fogeys do to-day. He had
reason, and so perhaps have we. Take the
case of H. R. Harwood (real name Biggs
and a carpenter by trade), who was in the
zenith of his powers some 30 years ago. He
could, and did, play anything. He was the
original. Uncle Cattermole in the Australian
production of “The Private Secretary,” by
Frank Thornton, and was Quilp in a version
of “The Old Curiosity Shop,” with Maggie
Moore and J. C. Williamson. Harwood was
the best Prince Laurent in “La Mascotte” I
have seen (Elton included), and other parts
he played were Macduff, the Ghost in “Ham-
let,” Chateau Renaud (“The Corsican Bro-
thers,” last done here by Julius Knight),
clown in a panto, and comedy and burlesque
characters in legion. He got his experience
with G. V. Brooke, I believe, and, I have
heard, made his first appearance with that
unfortunate genius in Geelong.
THE STRIKE-TIME ACTRESS TO HER
ADMIRERS.
[Foil The Bulletin.]
Throw no bouquets at me !
Splash not your £ s. tl.
On hot-house blooms of brilliant hue
That fade.and die. Your cash, pray, bleu,
if you would warm my heart and soul,
On gifts of coal!
When the stage-door is passed
1 shiver in the blast.
At home, beside an empty grate,
The frostiest comedy to date
Is played—l take the leading role
And starve for coal.
Throw no bouquets at me,
Hut of your charity
Show you appreciate indeed
My art; • supply the .thing I need —
Heg, borrow or annex a whole
Half-ton of coal!
VICTORIA.
EARDLEY TURNER.
THE MODERN ART.
LFor The Bulletin.]
The following are the titles of new plays taken at
random from the theatrical columns of the New
York daily papers: “A Sleepless Night,” “Up In
Mabel’s Room,” “Please Get Married,” Sleeping'
Partners,” “Parlor, Bedroom and Bath,” “The
Woman in Room Thirty. ’’—The Sujj.
In days when humbly on the stage
The actor tried to do his part,
When Virtue’s triumph was the rage,
A meek and lowly thing was Art;
The actor never would presume
To climb the stairs to Mabel’s Room.
He had high moral posturings, •
And “Please Get Married” he would say
(Which now with joking notes he sings)
In quite a pained, dramatic way ;
And only now and then he dared
To show how Sleeping Partners fared.
The Upper Circles thought him low,
In social matters not the thing;
But now the Best are glad to know
The mummer —treat him like a king—
Since he can show, to their delight,
What happens on a Sleepless Night.
He’s swapped his art successfully,
And now the actor’s all the rage.
Both bath and bed scene witness the
Refining influence of the stage.*;:
The actors now are proper men
To mingle with the Upper Ten.
N.S.W.
HAMER.


What 747 Hettri thmks oi the
salonola
*.O^ CA H 0/V
° A ‘ *
*n. li<
f ' o £
i^ 1
.«*•
>*<&•
•50'
s B.i
pi* 9
g.
’ ,\9'
o*<*
o'*
,ts>
„
&•<* S
•i.^VtvS 8 ’
" "* «!>’• '°
"> * „\eS-V i& c 9
tV 6 S 6 o 6 °\s
£o* v;tV eP r^°*
V»-S Iso" 1 A oV®& *%V ft
&€ Lt 0
OQO G^" C
.A«* *o* V> 9 **® ot^&V
, &«* 3^°’ &S s®-*® 6 -e o<*
.„•*. o oi J*e c t„\ tfft 6 j -V3 ’
fte' , ® t ir\o'fr s <a fti oi \ . *»i^
,o /
v* 5 ■*’ "
„ 0*
y^v
„sS* e 0 i 'B.lV*
‘* *> S i^ 6
>* oi
“t.o
*U*° **T> V
r
»/
,«.« v
<25
«£■
SMITH
In the Irani: rank lor Hoine Entertainments
Jftioivrooms' ~ '2K4 (Pastlereagft St. Sydney. 507-509 Queen St. Brisbane,
66 Gdwlcv PL Adelaide.
'Phone j 4607, 6417, 7870.
Free Demonstrations Daily
Showrooms_6peoLtill 9pm Fridays*.
To/’ pill pdrihiiuldrs' op b/ie h§alofiosi
and oil r JBillLarcl I/abln.
v\WWV\\
\
s
>)
SSSBHSPI3D
I


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
[WHAT MAKES THE WHEELS CO ROUIW?
«CCU
LEWIS &WTIITTY MAKERS'
WHEN "OUT OF SORTS” take
CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
If fretful, feverish, constipated, bilious
or tongue coated, take this delicious
fruit laxative at once.
The vague, general discomfort of being
“out of sorts,” when the stomach turns
against food, the eye is dull and the tongue
coated and heavy, can be banished in a few
hours by a dose of California Syrup of Figs
—“Califig.” There is no need to put up
with these things until to-morrow, waiting
for bedtime to take medicine. California
Syrup of Figs—“Califig”—will begin to do
you good the moment- you take it—at any
[ hour —and cause no discomfort. This plea-
sant-tasting, refreshing fruit laxative
cleanses the stomach, gently sweeps away all
accumulations of undigested food, and stimu-
lates the liver to assist in relieving the
bowels. By evening the tongue will be clear
again and the overflow of bile swept away;
you will be yourself again, with a good appe-
tite and digestion. This is the medicine
which does such wonders for children of all
ages; but it is every bit as good for growm-
up people, and there are full directions for
every age with the bottle. Take care to buy
the genuine, as there are imitations on the
market. Ask for “Califig”—California
Syrup of Figs, and look for the name and
trade mark of the California Fig Syrup Co.
All chemists sell “Califig”—California Syrup
of Figs—in two sizes, 1/6 and 2/4. [2
S SORTING
... *SNOTIOMS
DONY TINKER
Uri SIMMONS (|
C\ -A y.J l^^\ DO the job
J PROPERLY A
CAREERS.
[Fois Thu Bulletin.]
Bill Smith was born in a city slum;
A place of blasphemy, sin and rum.
Young William Smythe first blinked at the light
In a suburb smugly neat and bright.
William a p o'digy was at school :
Bill was reckoned a first-rate fool.
William, from scholarship’s topmost perch,
Stepped to a cure in a city church.
Bill was expelled, as brainless and lax,
And started to haunt the racing-tracks.
Years passed, and William still preached and prayed,
But Bill, in horrible clothes arrayed,
Shouted the odds to the racecourse crowd,
In phrases crude and in trousers loud.
His day’s work over, with aspect glum,
Smythe walks to his rooms in Smith’s old slum ;
While Smith quaffs drinks which bubble and foam,
Then drives to his large suburban home.
Smith owns the slum out of which he came:
Smythe hasn’t a shilling to his name.
N.s.w. 10-2-4.
* * * *
When The Bulletin said last week that
nags from N. S. Wales seemed to be disiinproving
since they came to Melbourne this winter, the
remark was intended to apply to the old identities
only. Jack Rice, Lord Cecil and Old Mungindi had
apparently gone to pieces, but the lately-arrived
Algous shaped promisingly on the previous Saturday,
when he made his first appearance over fences. On
his second to Bunroy in a two-mile steeple Algous
was not to be despised for the four-mile event, con-
sidering his Tartan blood; nevertheless it was ask-
ing a lot of a novice over “big” timber to win the
longest jumping race of the year at his second try
in public, even though the Caulfield fences are not
very big. As it was, an exceptionally fast race
suited the fine stayer, whereas it found out a weak
spot in Sir Prim; who was apparently under suspicion
of having staled somewhat. Early backers of the
Grand National winner cursed their luck when they
heard his price lengthen from 6’s to 10’s on the
course. Their greatest disappointment came later,
however. Sir Prim took the lead ove • the last fence
and his friends shook hands with themselves; and
then the heavyweight tired to nothing, and Algous
won by two lengths.
Tinana, carrying only 31b. less than 'dir Prim and
two stone more than Algous, was ma/.hly responsiole
for the cutting of nearly 6sec. off the Australian
Steeple record. Tinana three or more lengths ahead
of Mountain God, with • the othe.s further in the
rear —that was the order for 3i miles. The two
leaders were slow to tire, and though the dashing
Tinana wearied rather more than Mountain God, he
had steam enough left to get himself placed fourth by
the judge. Of the 12 nags that never had a look in six
came to grief, Sir Mneinon being the first to fall.
Cuffs was in a good position when he fell, only a
furlong from home; and in the meantime two other
popular fancies had disappeared. The first four horses
in the betting were among the unlucky half-dozen,
and the rearmost pair at the finish were Old Mun-
gindi and Cobram, Grand National winners both. A
steeplechaser’s life has strange vicissitudes.
Jack Rice met his death as-an equine hero should,
in front of the stand, with an immense audience
viewing the t agedy. Another outsider, Lady Sun-
derland, broke her neck, but the mare’s fall hap-
pened at the back of the course am 1 was hnrdlv
noticed by the crowd. The end of Jack Rice, it
goes without saying, was as generally deplored as
any nag’s sudden decease ever has been on a crowded
racecourse, where what to back for “the next” is
the uppermost thought in most minds, and “collect-
ing” keeps the others cheerful. Poor Jack had been
less conspicuously out of it than Gladful, the ilaori-
lander that, for some unaccountable reason, was
backed down to 5 to 1, and seemed hopelessly out-
paced from the start. Jumpers from M.L. have
rarely run up to the highest expectations in Mel-
bourne of late years.
Coronates, a top-notcher over hurdles in rh' s of
yore, has lived to pay his way among the has-beens,
with comparatively light weights on ids venerable
back. The old fellow won a race at the G.N.
meeting, and on Satu day, starting at B’s, he cut
down his opponents in great style.
* * * *
It is always the same if they are kept at
it long enough. Old Ulva’s Isle, twice winner of
the Cumberland Stakes, winner of the Randwick
Plate and A.J.C. Plate, third in a Melbourne Cup
and topweight in that race of the following year,
was a starter in the Rosehill Handicap on Satur-
day. There were eight others, and seven were in
front of him all the way. The ex-Maoriland hurdler
British Arch had an easy win.
Wolaroi’s half-brother, Portrait, put up a fine
performance with a hurdler’s weight over six fur-
longs. At 12st. 31b. he was giving some of them
just on 4st., yet he struggled to the front at the
distance and looked a sure winner. Then that
which is capable of bringing a mule and a Carbine
together told, snfl Iranian, with 371 b. less, managed
to tip him off in the last few strides. This was
Portrait’s last run under the lease held bv trainer
Dick Walker. The nag really belongs to Dan Seaton,
owner of Westcourt and co. A queer thing about
Fortrait, a champion on suburban courses, is that
he invariably blew up at Randwick. The long
straight the e is no place for a horse with a defect
in his breathing apparatus.
“R.A.” : Real sorrow was felt by Sydney
racegoers when the news came that Jack Rice had
been killed in the Australian Steeple. He was not
marvellously successful as a raceho.se, having won
only £3594 in stakes. It was his gameness that
endea ed him to the crowd, more especially in Syd-
ney, where he so often won or tried hard to win
under big burdens. In a small way he was another
Trafalgar, in the estimation of N. S. Wales backers
of jumpers. It is fitting that he should nave met
his death on a Vic. course which never did suit his
fencing style.
The vacancy on the S.A.J.C. committee
caused by the death of George Bagot has been filled
by Whitmore Carr, who was unopposed. Carr had
for years been chairman of the A.R.C., but preferred
to move over to the governing body. The A.R.O. at
its annual meeting made him a life member; and
James Hall leplaces him as chairman. There was
a suggestion to make W. A. Blackler a life member,
too; but there seemed to be no precedent for it in
the case of a mere committeeman. Blackler has
retired after doing good service. He gets the credit
for introducing the Adelaide Guineas, a three-year-
old race. The A.R.C. has programmes and stakes very
similar to those of the S.A.J.C., but there used to
be nothing at Victoria Park to compare with the
S.A. Derby at Morphettville.
# * * *
Racing in S. Aus. is certainly not over-
done. The figures of the past season show W. H.
Richardson the most successful owner with £2472
won in stakes; and he had only two winning ho ses,
Dependence and Ptarni, though between them they
took 10 races. Tom Keily is second with £l5OO, and
Gomley third. Allen and Yates, close up, fourto, took
£1361 with a single horse, the two-year-old Lord
Setay. Hopwood again stands alone among the
jockeys, with 334 wins; Sing, Veale and Mooney
come next. Howie is away at the head of the
trainers, Dobbin, Butler, W. T. Hopwood and Keily
following in that order. In the winning sires, Pistol
has another walk-over, with 30 winners, 524 races.
£7972 won in stakes. St. Anton has about half
those figures, but is far ahead of Comedy King, thiid
on the list.
The above-mentioned Lord Setay is a big advt. for
his sire, St. Anton, and for Aldridge’s Richmond
Park stud, near Adelaide, which owns both Pistol
and the Saint. The colt has just been sold to Flan-
nagan for 1000 guineas, said to be the highest price
ever given for a local two-year-old, especially as
there is, extra, an agreed “contingency” in the event
of his winning the forthcoming Adelaide Guineas,
which looks a good thing for him. The colt is in
the V.R.C. Derby. He ran like a cow when visiting
Flemington last November, but S. Aus. swears that
this was nothing like his true form.
* X- * *
“Mulruana”: Ninety-nine out of every
hundred punters think that unless a jockey belabors
his mount with whalebone and heels, he is not doing
his utmost to win. Holding a horse together, and
at the same time “sooling” him on is a difficult
art. The late “Law” Fisher was a pastinaster at
it, yet few recognised his merits. For attempting
it and getting beaten in the Australian Hurdle Arch
Hawkins has been abused by Beltane’s backers. Not
one of the howlers has a word of praise for the way
Hawkins kept Beltane together over the last four
furlongs. Those who watched the race through
good glasses saw Beltane “shift” at the last two
jumps, and in less capable hands he would have
run off or refused to gallop. Perhaps when Sir
Mnemon wins a few more races punters will realise
Beltane had something to beat.
* * * *
As Sir Prim landed over the last fence in
the Australian Steeplechase on Saturday, Moon col-
lapsed on his neck. The incident caused comment,
as Moon hadn’t to waste to get the weight (12fet.
41b.). Not many people realise the tremendous
physical strain of riding four miles at racing pace
over big fences. A man has to be in hard training
to do it, and if he lets up, or if anything occurs to
weaken him, he fails. It is even more the case
in England and Ireland, where the fences, though
not so stiff as they are here, are bigger and more
diversified. In a big jumping event at Liverpool
or Punchestown a successful rider needs to be in
just as good nick as his mount.
* * * *
A really sporting golf match in England,
between men and
women, was won by
the ladies —4 to 3.
They had the sole ad-
vantage given them of
a forward tee, and,
with this allowance for
their shorter driving,
proved equal to the
men in eve ything else.
The most exciting of
the seven contests was
between the deter-
mined • gum-chewing
Miss Cecil Leitch and
Horace Hutchinson,
who has twice in the
past been open cham-
pion of Britain, and
has lately had four
years as a prisoner in
Germany. Their match
was halved.
F. POPPLE-
WELL.
One of the mdst courageous, if not the
best, of Australian horsemen returned from France
on Monday, in the person of “Billy” Cope, the
Sydney solicitor. Up to the time the Sydney Hunt
Club burst, or thereabouts, he was a well-known
figure, both in the hunting-field and in Hunting
events at the Moore Park Showground. He served
with the Soudan Contingent, and also throughout
the Boer War. In the Boer War a D.S.O. was
something worth winning, and Mr. Cope was gratified
to learn officially shortly after he got back, 19
years ago, that he had been awarded one. However,
it turned out to be a cable error: another Svdnev
solicitor, Cha-les Cape, was the man. In the Great
War Captain Cope served partly with the French Red
Cross and partly with the Australian Comforts Fund,
having been rejected for combatant work on the
score of age.
* * * *
The lacrosse season in Adelaide, which
was getting less interesting from the unbeaten run
of East Torrens, has been galvanised by the set-back
that team received from Sturt. It was beaten 10
to 0, and never had a look-in. A leading forward
and a good back were away, but that could not
account for the slaughter.
ft- -X- *
Georges Carpentier’s wary refusal to risk
his laurels again until he is sure of doing himself
justice has involved things in England. Eddie
McGoorty, who was to have met the Frenchman, has
now been matched with Beckett. Beckett, who
recently knocked out in a round and a half the
hard-hitting but funereally-slow Goddard, is a boxer
of the stolid, conventional type. If he brings the
fight to McGoorty, the Ame.ican will probably hit
him as he was able to hit even Darcy. The result
should depend largely on the quality of the right-
hand angle of the Englishman’s jaw. Beckett is
said to be capable of assimilating a lot of punish-
ment.
* * » »
At Sydney Stadium on Saturday night
Dave Wall removed the paperweight championship
of Australia from Bobby Gray after being well and
truly outed in the 12th round. The explanation of
an apparent anomaly is that Robert was half a
pound overweight. Gray was too strong and skilful
for the technical winner throughout.
A 1 King, featherweight champion of N. S.
Wales, who recently knocked out Herb Barker at
the Stadium, was billed to meet Jerry Sullivan at
Sydney Hippod ome on Monday night. But he was
too ill to box, and Harry Smith, of Melbourne, did
in the 13th round what in happier circumstances
A 1 might well have done in the third, or earlier —
namely, won from Jerry by a knock-out.
* * * *
Another international battle was staged
on Satu day night in Brisbane, where of late the
Ghow, the abo. and the foreigner, as well as white
Australians, have been seen in action. This time
it was between Quendreux (France) and Max
Gornick (Russia). Gornick is a middle; the Gaul
a mere welter. However, skill told, and the tall
and rangy child of the Steppes, after being thrice
beaten to the boards, was on the last descent
counted out.
There has been a revival of boxing in
Maoriland since the Armistice, fights having been
held at Gisborne, Christchurch, Greymouth and
Wellington. The last-named —4000 spectators, with
1000 turned away—was between Jack Heeney and
Barney Ireland ami ended unexpectedly after the
10th round by Ireland handing in the towel; his
arms were gone. Heeney is a short well-made Digger,
whose work in English rings is said to have ex-
tracted from Eugene Corri. th« re f mee of the
National Sporting Glub, the opinion that he would
become a second Les Darcev. He has a great punch.
* ‘ * *
J. H. Kirkwood broke some more N. S.
Wales golf records
last week. At Rose
Bay he went round in
69 ; at Killara in 67 ;
and at Manly in 69.
His handicap is now
“plus 6” —two behind
the next best profes-
sional and three be-
hind amateur cham-
pion Eric Apperly.
J. H. KIRK-
WOOD, Vic.
(characteristic
“ putting ”
attitude).
Balmain kept its lead in Sydney Itugby
League premiership on Saturday with a lucky defeat
of Souths by 13 points to 11. Balmain piled up all
its 13 points in the first half. The East-West match
was also strenuous; Easts got out by s—o. Else-
where Newtown defeated Aimandale by B—s and
Glebe overwhelmed North Sydney by 17—2.
The Australian Rugby League team, which
left for M.L. this week, comprises 24 players (13
backs and 11 forwards). N.S.W. supplies 18 and
Queensland six.
» * * *
The Bananaland Union team gave its
worst dislay to date on Saturday. Flanagan was
out of place in such a motley crew, and suggested
a miniatu e Atlas carrying the Northern State on
his sturdy shoulders. Flynn and McMahon were the
only other members of the side worth mention. A
noticeable thing about the three-quarters was their
inability to use both feet. The star performer of the
N. S. Wales team was Mayne, who played on the
wing. He has pace and trickiness and did pretty
well what he liked with the opposition. Sheppard,
who is apparently suffering f om too much football,
played without his usual dash; Buchanan,' on the
other hand—one of the keenest players ever seen—
was all dash. The forwards, besides having the
best of the scrums, displayed great ability in the
almost lost art of dribbling. Gwynne and Ormiston,
in particular, controlled the ball with uncanny accu-
racy. N. S. Wales, letting up at the finish, won
by 30—13 after the score had been 27 —0 in the
first half.
* * * *
Souths still lead well in the Vic. League
competition, with a points total of 40. On Satur-
day they beat ’Roy 94—47. Simultaneously ’Wood
(next on the Premiership list with 36) were beating
Richmond 78 —65. Saints beat ’Don (46 —34) after
one of the foulest games seen for some years. In
the third quarter a partisan in the crowd galloped
on to the ground and swung a heavy but ill-aimed
blow at the u'mpire. While the police were attending
to him the crowd rushed the arena from another
angle, and for some time the excitement was ter-
rific. Melbourne remains at the bottom of the list
with a sum-total of nil.
.The R.A.M.C. (Duntroon) gave Sydney
Uni. (Premiers so far in the Rugby Union* Com-
petition) a 22j—11 licking at the ’Varsity Oval
on Saturday. i..e embryo soldiers have been 'trained
to play hard though very fair football; and they
excelled the, civilian students in speed and con-
dition.
.* * ♦
The A.I.P. XI last week beat Sussex by
an innings and 54, and drew with Kent. Under
the new two-day-match system a defeat has to be
a rout or the match is a draw. Also, under the
new system of percentage-scoring for the County
Championship—an arrangement by which a draw-
counts the same as a defeat —the ‘‘form” in England
is anyhow. Thus Kent, which of old was one of
the greatest cricketing counties, and which is still
strong, is at the bottom of the list, while Derbv-
shi e, which used to be just out of the second-class
division, is at the top. Sussex, which in the days
of Ranji and C. B. Fry was always in the running
for the championship, has performed wretcnedl.v this
year. None of the counties can be relied on to
make a showing against the Diggers. As London
Daily Mail put it recently, “if the Australian
soldiers were a team over here to play Test matches,
a side full of famous names, they could hardly be
expected to beat the counties more convincingly.”
N. S. Wales had a one-sided victory over
Queensland in the men’s section of the int'er-State
tennis matches at Brisbane on Saturday. In the
singles, each State won six matches; but in the
doubles N.S.W. won by eight rubbers to one, and
landed the match by 14 rubbers to seven. In the
singles the star was Peach (N.S.W.), who beat
Turner (Q.) by 6—2, o—l. O. St. John (Q.) downed
veteran Horace Rice (N.S.AV.) by 6 —o, 6 —4. In
the doubles, however, Rice and Peach were too good
for St. John and H. N. Wilson by 6 —3, 5 —7, C—4.
* * * *
W. J. Hamilton (Rocklea) made hacks of
the younger athletes in winning the five-mile Queens-
land cross-country championship on Saturday, in
28min. 52 3-ssec. It was his sixth win. The “old
man” recently won the three-mile State track cham-
pionship in 16min. 28 4-ssec.
Victoria decided a five-mile cross-country
championship at Ballarat, and T. N. Vines (St.
Stephen’s) • arrived first in 29min. 17 3-ssec., followed
by M. Ingram (Malvern) and A. E. McMullen (St.
Stephen’s). All three are recently-returned Anzacs.
* * ’ V *
The recent international Soccer match
in Pa is, among army teams, was a close thing. To
the surprise of most people, Belgium won, beating
England and drawing with France. As England only
just beat the B’rench, 3 goals to 2. the three teams
must have been very equally matched.
**-»■*
The old time famous English pedestrian.
Frank Hewitt, was amongst the mourners at the
graveside when Dave Gregory w s burkd. He camp
to Australia in 1869 with Bird and Topley, under
engagement to George Coppin.
* * * *
Some old-time cricketers turned up at
Dave Gregory’s funeral at Gore Hill (Sydney) last
week. There were six N. S. Wales representatives
in the first Australian XI, which went to England in
1878. These were Dave Gregory (captain), C. Ban-
nerman, A. Banncnnan. F. SpofTorth (in EngP'ml),
Tom Garrett, and W. Murdoch (dead). The two Ban-
nermans and Tom Garrett reside in Sydney. The
Bannermans were at the graveside, as were also
Charlie Oliver, P’rauk Iredale, Harry Donnan, J.
Humphreys, John Tooher, J. Oatley, 'Charles Beale,
A. C. It. Mackenzie,'J. O. Trimble, Victor Cohen and
A. Hiddleston. There were three cricketing Gregorys
of Dave’s generation: only one of them, Charley, is
still living. Their mother was a sister of John
Thomas Smith, seven times Mayor of Melbourne.
* * * *
“Jobber”: Someone mentions the first
aeroplane joy-rider to be fined in England. That
chap was unfortunate in being found out, for joy-
riding. in army ’planes, has been going on for years.
In a squadron to which I was attached in England
we had a pilot who conducted a flirtation with a
sporty girl living a mile or two from the aerodrome.
His Wings often went up on his own, and when he
got well away from the ’drome' would land in a
convenient field, where his angel would be waiting.
She would hop into the back seat smartly. After
a fly round the country they would come to earth
again and she’d slip out at the double, while the
pilot flew the machine home. Only a few of us
knew, and he kept the stunt going until the squadron
went overseas. They were never pinched.
* * * *
“R.8.T.” ; Last week I set out to buy a
tennis racquet, Australian-made, if possible; Eng-
lish, Vankee and Japanese were the only lines pur-
chasable, the Jap being the cheapest and shoddiest.
One of the principal sellers told me that 25 years
ago his firm made enough racquets—“and good ones,
too” —to supply all Vi< toria’s requirements; but local
p ejudice left them ou their hands for years, and
that settled them. Surely to Heaven the countrv that
has the skill to lick the World in the use of racquets
has also the skill to at least equal the world in
the making of them. Whan such prejudice goes to
the length of being a dangerous insanity, there is
only one thing to do with it —put on a Customs
tariff that will cure it.
* * * *
“Doug” : It is a queer world. For offer-
ing his services as human chopping-block in the
recent exhibition at Toledo, U.S.A., Willard cleaned
up some £40,000 in about 10 minutes. And he did
his bit of near-scrapping for his own good solely.
Plumer, one of the best of Britain’s fighting generals,
collected £30,000 ; Rawlinson, Byng and Horne the
same; while Birdwood and Robertson got £lO,OOO
each. And the same sum —a quarter of Willard's
consolation prize—-was pouched by Sturdee. who sent
the Huns to Davy Jones’s off the Falklands; Keyes,
who smashed into and out of Zeebrugge; Tyrvvhitt,
of Arethusa fame. And no moving-picture royalties
and vaudeville contracts!
» * * #
Danvers Hamber. a Maoriland sporting
writer since 1898, is dead. Under the pen-name of
“Petronel” he wrote turf-news; and he knew the
business. For many years he was editor of the
Referee, in Christchurch, until ill-health obliged
him to give up the post. Hamber came from Lon-
don, where his father at one time edited the
Standard.


GOOD HEALTH IS WITHIN
YOUR REACH.
From observing the results in cases of thousands of students
of both sexes who have undergone the Baker Course, I say if
you suffer from INDIGESTION you can be cured,
jf with CONSTIPATION it can be banished, if NERVOUS,
you can gain calm.
If SLEEPLESS, you can gain good natural sleep.
If too THIN, healthy weight can be gained.
If you require powerful MUSCULAR DEVELOPMENT and
V.IITALITY, it can be acquired.
Or, if in health, you can improve and increase your supply of
nervous energy for your business and daily work more than
ever experienced before.
My Postal Course of Health and Strength Culture
will bring you renewed health and strength. The exercises
you receive will be those most suited to your individual needs,
just as the particulars you tell me you require. Write your
name and add ess across this advertisement, and send it to
me with three stamps, and I will send you a copy of my
interesting booklet, “HEALTH AND STRENGTH FROM
SELF-CULTURE.”
Those desiring to avail themselves of personal instruction
are cordially invited to call and have a chat with me about
their requirements, and see a dernonstration. Full particu-
lars and fees on application.
SNOWY BA.'vER “K. 0.” BOXING GLOVES,
In Two Grades, 15/6 and 21/- per set (2 pairs)
Post Free. Every set personally selected and
guaranteed. On receipt of remittance Gloves
will be sent by return.
Natural Health and
Physical Culture
1 Expert,
REG. L. csnowy’) BAKER,
87 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street (Or. Crown St.), Sydney.
a
Njlt
0
lit
|’l**
‘SHELL’ BENZINE
ENSURES EVEN
VAPORISATION UNDER
ALL CONDITIONS.
USE IT AND PROVE IT.
MM Imperial Oil G* Lit
MOORE (Patent)
4-speed
GEAR BOX
for Ford Cars
WESTCOTT, HAZELL & CO. LTD.,
311 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
Suppliers of all Motor Accessories.
DUNCAN PTY. CO.,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOR
MINING. MILLING, etc.
INCLUDING
STEAH ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL BE, POSTED UPON. APPLICATION TO
THE SECRETARY
Box 229 G.P.0.,
MELBOURNE.
THE GENERAL MANAGER
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
THE SECRETARY
Box 220 G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
Jr \
\
STONE BREAKERS.
Portable Stone Breakers, Portable Bins
and Screens, Crushing Rolls, Elevators.
MANUFACTURED BY—
JAQUES BROS. Pty. Ltd.,
Coppin Street, Richmond, MELBOURNE, VIC.
Send for our Illustrated, Catalog No. 20.
Magnesia
for lndigesfion.
KYNOCH
AMMUNITION
“P BIM A X” and “B ONA X”
CARTRIDGES—iKYNOCH made
and loaded. Both possess excellent shoot-
ins qualities, “PRIMAX” being the
highest-grade cartridge in a case
sold on the Australasian market, while
“BONAX” enjoys the largest sale of
any individual cartridge in the world.
Always specify KYNOCH Ammunition
when ordering from your dealer.
British Made Throughout.
1
feU
£
prim
kywq!s
Wholesale only—Scottish House, 90 William Street, Melbourne.
Kvnoch House, 277 Clarence Street, Sydney.
GUM
BOOTS
B
I
7M
m
:
a
x
H
f!f
\iV ' "<•••, ■ ■'''
- \ \ **.
. X %s^. N "-' X - X "\ ', \V
r%
m
RUBBER
GOLOSHES
Protection and Comfort
Any man living in the Country who is called on to face the Weather’s Worst at.
this season absolutely NEEDS a pair of Good Gum-Boots. The ‘ L.S. GIJM-
BOOT here shown will not only provide Perfect protection for legs and feet, no
matter how heavy the Downpour or Slushy the “going,” but will also zive
complete comfort in Wear. The Reason is that this Boot is fashioned with a
correctness and with a degree of care, usually associated only with the Highest-
It is neither
of the foot
The Fine-quality Rubber used
Grade Walking Boots. The “L.S.” GUM-BOOT fits flawlessly,
clumsy nor over-weighty. A Straw-board Insole prevents overheatin;
and a Valuable Feature'is the “non-slip” outer-sole. The Fine-qualiti
in manufacture guarantees unlimited service.
In Black, 27/6; in Tan, 32/6.
GOTjOSHES are an essential for use in Town or Country, and the Style shown
good for Seasons of Wear. Like the Gum-Boots, it is made from the Best
Rubber money can buy, and meets all demands as to Protective Value plus ease in
use.
With Rolled Edges, 8/11; Plain Edges, 7/11.
POST YOUR. ORDER TO-DAY.
I
Lincoln, Stuart & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
“Mail-
Order
Specialists,”
244-54
Flinders Street,
Melbourne.


THE
3$
At
> y -:
ROYAL
Self-
Heating
IRON
is the very latest benzine-burning laundry
help. The iron without a pump—no in-
tricate parts to get out of order. Use clean
benzine, strain it through a chamois, which
it runs through as water does through
muslin, and you’ll have no trouble.
ASK TO SEE IT.
In SYDNEY'—The Civil Service Stores.
F. Eassetter & Co. Etd.
Mark Foy’s Ltd.
Nock & Kirby Etd.
Alex. Smith Ltd.
In BRISBANE—Barry & Roberts.
In PERTH—William Sandover & Co.
Or the Agents will send it to any add r ess in Aus-
tralia, post paid, on receipt of 30/-
Address—“ Royal Iron,” Box 98 G.P.0.,
Sydney.
i PERFECT GOWNING
: WITHOUT FITTINGS
■
■ Such is the craft of Shave,
i Master Ladies' Tailors and
; Dressmakers of Melbourne, that
they are able to fashion perfectly
the most elaborate gown
or the severest tailor-
suit without fittings
Visits by Shave to Sydney
and Adelaide each
half-year, and to
Brisbane yearly
SHAVE
LADIES’ TAILORS,
DRESSMAKE RS .
Centreway, Melbourne
To show in Sydney
shortly, Kindly enquire
Hotel Carlton for
opening date of display.
ny®
\Aeltoman
![SPE£IALTILS
Creams
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANC LTD.
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne. 4
E. BROWN © SONS LONDON
AGENCIES • ALL - OVER • THE • WORLD
k
Very correctly tailored in garden-party
habiliments, Lieut.-Gov. Irvine attended his
first meeting of the State Executive Council
last week. He helped to create a J.P., ap-
point J. B. Ronald a registrar of marriages,
authorise two mining grants, and push
through a few other minor orders. Victor
Ilood accompanied him down to his taxi.
On the following day his Ex. betook himself
to the Uni., where he told the Historical
Society that the author of Don Quixote,
next to Sliakspeare, left the most valuable
legacy in modern literature. In the dis-
cussion that followed Father Wilfrid Ryan,
of Newman College, and his cousin, Harry
Minogue, a brainy law student, broke a lance
for the sunny land of Spain, where a British
princess now reigns as Queen.
If Gaud Mayor Cabena is re-elected on
October 9 there will be no show of nasty
temper in the Council Chamber. Hence-
forth the mayor for the coming year will
be really chosen by secret ballot in secret
committee on the day preceding the nohiinal
election, so that every councillor may come
smilingly up to the scratch on the solemn
occasion and back the pre-arranged winner.
Councillor Charles Atkins returned to his
municipal duty with a determination to put
an end to the annual scandal of a bickering
in the council chamber on October 9. His
military sense was shocked at the stories
that reached him in England of the mild
uproar incidental to the final defeat of much-
mayored Hennessy, and the victory of Cabena
over Stapley. So undignified! So sadly
lacking in discipline ! The khakied council-
lor offered two or three suggestions a while
ago, and one of them was carried unani-
mously last Saturday. There will he the
same old canvassing for votes, but the ballot
will be so secret that the defeated candidate,
or -dates, may never know for certain which
friends were false.
The Australian Steeplechase on Saturday
drew a huge crowd to Caulfield. This meet-
ing comes a little too early for Spring
dresses and a little too late for Winter
duds; and women go weighed down by the
unhappy thought that their clothes are get-
ting the same dejected look as those of a
popular comic opera co. that has played 100
nights or so. A mixture of dust and rain
played up with the few new Spring frocks on
view. Plush hats and navy serge or tired-
looking fur coats were everywhere. Mrs.
Falkiner’s navy cloth was wool-embroidei'ed,
and therefore up to the moment. Mrs.
Hidgcock had wool-weavings on her pale-
fawn cloth and the very newest-shaped cape
and muff of ermine. Mrs. Merson Cooper
got into serviceable serge and a small hat.
Roma Clarke wore all black, with a picture
flare to her velvet hat. Mrs. Winter Irving
had to cover her new tight-skirted befringed
gown with a raincoat. Really smart race-
coats weren’t wanted during* the war,' be-
cause real race frocks vanished and utility
coat-and-skirts became “fashionable.” But
they must “come in” again this year, for the
short sleeves and chiffon frills on all the new
models demand protection.
The Norman Falkiners were depressed by
the severe downing of Sir Prim and other
of the family horses. Eric Connolly had a
sensational win with Toison d’Or, and re-
joiced accordingly. Mrs. Eric, in dainty fawn
color, was out for the first time after a
serious illness. Several of the big country
racing clans were absent owing to the ’flu.
Mrs. Leibner wore a leaf-green cloth suit
with mink fur edgings. Mrs. Cumming had
a smart, much-beflowered hat and a coat-
dress. Mrs. Weyland and Miss Grove
(visitors from Canada) wore duplicate
coats, which interested the lawn. They were
tight-fitting and heavily weighted with
brown and grey fur. Some dandified men-
folk, fresh from London or Paris, were wear-
ing large fur collars to their overcoats.
Justice Hodges, who passed out last week
at his beautiful Maeedon mansion, famous 1
for its roses and maples, was twice mar-
ried. His first wife was a daughter of
George Knox and sister of William, once
of the House of Reps.; and his second was
squatter Robert Chirnside’s handsome widow.
The hat will go round for the Children’s
Convalescent Home (Hampton) at the Sand-
ringham Town Hall on August 27. Miss
Maude Grantham, Doug. Hart and other
established amateurs are to lend a voice in
the appeal, and Mrs.’ J. E. Mackey has
promised to be her best self in a production
of “How He Lied to Her Husband.” Also
the Color Comedy Co., which includes one
or two of McMahon’s old Repertory enthusi-
asts, will show their points in “The Dear
Departed.”
Father Eustace Boylan, S.J.. who has left
Xavier to become rector of St. Pat.’s Col-
lege, is a gentle, scholarly man with a fine
discriminating literary touch. When Angli-
can Archbish. Clarke entered into a con-
troversy with him some months ago he found
him a chivalrous and well-equipped antago-
nist. Room was made for Father Boylan
at St. Pat.’s when Father T. O’Dwyer was
sent to St. Ignatius’s, Sydney, to succeed
Father T. Gartlan.
Civil marriage registrars appointed by the
Vic. Executive Council are not entitled to
pay from the State and cannot legally make
a charge. There is nothing, however, to
prevent bridegrooms so disposed fr om leaving
a gift on the altar, which is the office table,
for the celebrant-registrar. J. B. Ronald,
the “honorable and reverend’’ unattached
Scotchbyterian, who has just been appointed
by Order-in-Council. knows the conditions.
But he is nrepared to chance meeting the
niggardly bridegroom at the marriage-manse
at St. Kilda.
The Peace Conference had its own special
hospital to receive any ’flu or other casual-
ties among the delegates, secretaries and
other officials connected with the gather-
ing ; and the matron in charge was an Aus-
tralian—Mary Loughran, who has the Royal
Red Cross and a handsome bunch of
“mentions.”
The late Father Robinson, who before
he died saw the completion of his ornate
church of Our Lady of Victories at Camber-
well, is to be succeeded there by Father
Edward O’Brien, formerly parish priest at
Ashby, a suburb of Geelong. O’Brien is
something of a church-founder, too, having
pioneered the Ashby presbytery. He has
brains and a silver tongue.
The poet Webster isn’t going to have all
the comic opera of the Federal Government
to himself. The Department of Trade and
Customs announces by advertisement, under
the heading “Tenders for the Musical Play
Die Iveusche Susanne’ (‘The Girl in the
Taxi’),” that it invites applications for a
license within the Commonwealth to pro-
duce, reproduce or perform the said musical
play, described as after the French by
George Okonkowsky, and set to music by
Jean Gilbert, or any adaptation thereof.
But why waste a good tiling like this? Why
don’t Federal Ministers use the taxi as a
vehicle to display their own talents? They
are whales on motor-cars, anyway.
Lieut. DaryL Lindsay has brought back a
striking collection of battlefield impressions
in line, wash and
water-color, and they
will be on exhibition
at Decoration from
Monday, August 18.
The quality of his
stuff is high—per-
haps because he felt
that he had to put
it on record. He had
done no work of the
kind before; but
London Graphic, the
Illustrated ' Lon-
don News and other
papers were glad to
reproduce many of
his drawings. Be-
sides fighting in
France, Lindsay put
in 12 months at the
Sidcup Hospital, doing pathological drawings
and diagrams. He was direct assistant to the
Adelaide surgeon, Colonel H. S. Newland.
who was in charge of this house of mercy,
where experts formed and moulded new
features for battered and torn faces; and
he has already got busy at Melbourne Uni. on
expert pathological work. The young man has
the energy which marks the Lindsays. While
keeping his medical w’ork going lie is
arranging his show and likewise making
numerous drawings and maps to illustrate
Major (Padre) Devine’s “The Story of a
Battalion,” which records the doings of the
48th. It is to be published by Melville and
Mullen, Melbourne.
Bohemia wept over its spaghetti last week
when Vincent Fasoli passed out in his 82nd
year. Fasoli, who was born near Lake
Como, came to Australia 50 years ago and
opened the Hotel Fasoli, in Lonsdale-street,
which quickly became a favorite resort of
winters, artists and musicians, together with
many who did not write, paint or muse to
any great extent, but liked it to be thought
that they did. Later Fasoli moved to King-
street, and a few years ago the pub lost its
license and became the Cafe Fasoli. Despite
the loss of the absinthe which made Bo-
hemia’s heart grow fonder, Fasoli’s cramped
but hospitable house remained the head-
quarters of those who delight in the world,
the flesh and the garlic. He was a kindly
old soul, and the olives will seem less tasty
now he has gone.
Helena Brayshay has gone west within a
couple of months of her brother, barrister
Dave. Miss Brayshay formerly ran a
private hospital in Fitzroy, but a few years
ago gave up nursing to take charge of the
popular Kerami chalet, which nestles among
the hills of Marysville.
Ex-City Surveyor Mountain has been wel-
coming only son Jack back from the war.
This soldier got away early as gunner and
fought on Gallipoli. He has returned in a
flying captain’s trappings, with a mention
or two in despatches to his credit.
Some of the Best People, who prefer a
steady pace and don’t want to be killed in a
revolution, are preparing a social blockade
against the smart-setters who have been
making the pace hot since the war ended.
Cocktails, warm stories, little gambles
with big losses and the overdone jazz are to
be barred.
Harold Clayton, of the S. M. Herald’s
Melbourne office, is rejoicing over the re-
turn of son Rex from the war with honors
and a six-inch shrapnel scar in the neck.
The scar is a souvenir left by a Hun aero-
plane.
No list of representative Australian
musicians would be complete without the
name of Frederick
Mewton. The ener-
getic descendant of
a long line of
musicians, he was
qualifying for a high
place as an infant
prodigy when he -was
placed under the
care of the late
Ernest Wood and
taken through a long
course of church
oratorio. His pro-
tracted experience as
a chorister, combined
with his inherited
leaning towards
church music, steered
him to the organ
loft, and to-day Mel-
bourne holds no more accomplished organist
or choir-master. At present he commands
the organ at Holy Trinity, Kew, waves a
tactful baton over numerous choirs, and is
developing considerable reputation as a
teacher. In Melbourne and elsewhere the
honor lists and platforms are crowded with
his pupils. The picture is by Ruth Holliek.
The big ’Varsity reception and ball to
welcome home returned-soldier grads, and
undergrads, is to happen on Friday night
Motors at 2 a.m.
The Braille Writers intend to dance again.
Ibis two-step (the second annual event)
will happen on August 29, at the City Hall.
Prahran. For some time Mrs. James Wil-
liamson has been teaching dancing to a class
of blind students, and now it is the most
popuiar recreation they have. Tickets are
available at the Braille Library, South
xarra. The proceeds go to a fund to pro-
vide entertainment for blind readers.
Adelaide’s moving picture :
Despite food restrictions and famine prices in
ondon, the exodus to England continues, and the
Nestor had a big- contingent— amongst them the
Cuthbert Wells couple and their small children and
Mrs. Pooler, who plan to live in England. Mr. and
Mrs. W. Pope will be back in a year or so. Mrs. Pendle-
ton and Miss Anne Scott also climbed the gangwav
The Kidmans go via America.
A C.B.E. has come to Sister E. S. Davidson, who
gave up her billet as city nurse to join the Diggers
in 1914. Since then she has been matron of military
hospitals in France, Italy and England, and had
already won the Royal Red Cross. An 0.8. E.
(military class) has come to Major E. F. Playford
son of the late P;emier Tom.
The de Bavay-Tolley wedding is to be on August
20, with a reception at the South Australian Hotel
Ten days later Mrs. Albion Tolley dfnd Miss Melrose
are to give a dance at the former’s house at Unley
Park. Dances in private houses are rare this
season. Most hops transpire at the Osborne Hall,
two recent festivities there being a committee dance
with half a dozen young matrons as the hostesses,
and a dance given by ten bachelors of the Eastern
Extension Telegraph Co.
The number of ’flu patients at the Isolation Hos-
pital has jumped suddenly from under 20 to nearly
•>O. St. Peter’s College has had to close down tem-
porarily.
Thanks largely to the 'generosity of Mrs. Barr
Smith, who headed the list with £l5OO, Mount
Ba niu 6r * S ave a hospital as its war memorial.
he Rev. W. Jeffries’s daughter, who was in
charge of the 3rd Casualty Clearing Station in
France when the Armistice was signed, has won
her R.R.C.; and Dr. Phoebe Chappie has been in-
Paface Military Medal at Buckingham
The engagement is posted of Lieut. Keith Wilkin-
son, elder son of,the W. B. Wilkinsons, to Mollie
only daughter of the Charles Irwins.
The Josiah Symons’ son Carril took his Arts de-
gree i n the Sheldonian Theatre, Oxford, at the end
of May. He runs to brawn as well as brain and
specialises in cricket and tennis.
A lonely woman passed when Mrs. C. C. King-
ston died. She had no children, and her adopted
son was lost when he was quite a boy. Since hei
husband’s death she had lived alone at their old
home at Marino.
Died at North Adelaide, Arthur Hughes, son of
the late H. Bristow Hughes, who was the original
owner of Booyoolie, Kinchega and Nocatunga stations.
The F. R. Scarfes’ only daughter Audrey is en-
gaged to Lieut. Clifford Deeley, just back from the
Front.
Sydney Ividman left his S. Aus. home last week
for his long-promised visit to America. Kapunda
gave him a great send-off, and he promised in re-
turn always to have a “representative” there. As
he has just given £BOOO for a house in an Adelaide
suburb, it does not seem likely that he will go back
to the old home himself.
The bright yellow motor-car which Lady Galway
used to drive around has been turned into a taxi and
painted white. Vice-regal associations combined with
expensive upholstering make it much sought after by
the “heads.”
Mrs. Reggie Slmter’s youthful daughter
Enid is receiving congratulations on her
engagement to Captain Frank Faulkner, son
of the medical Faulkners of Sunbury. Enid’s
soldier wears the Military Medal with bar.
Dick Richards, the Bendigo scholar who
went to the Antarctic as physicist with the
Shackleton expedition and was marooned at
Ross Island for over two years, is shortly
to be made the happiest of men by “Dot”
Hambly, the Ballarat damsel who until
lately taught art at the School of Mines.
Richards is also stationed at the school
nowadays, as lecturer in mathematics.
Captain Percy Dobson, just returned from
the Front, married Phyllis Butler in Ilobart
the other day. A previous par. made the
prospective bride Miss Coralie Flexmoro.
Elsie, one of the pretty Shelton girls, was
married last week to H. R. Murphy, of the
School of Mines, Ballarat. The bride is
the daughter of the late Henry Shelton,
inspector of schools, and Mrs. Shelton, of
Elsternwick. The Shelton girls get their
looks from mother: as Susie Ryan she was
an Irish beauty, who caused a stir in the
Wimmera when her people settled there.
The Widow Shelton has a fine brood of
Australian sons who shine as doctors and
lawyers—Elsie was director of the Free
Kindergarten in Ballarat.
Dr. Hugh Wickins, who has been in
charge at the Exhibition Emergency Hospi-
tal since the beginning, found a spare half-
hour last week to get married. The bride
was Nurse Dolly O’Halloran, of the same
hospital. The ceremony was got through
quietly at St. George’s R.C. Church, Carl-
ton. The bridegroom is a returned major.
Mr. H. H. Newton, Clerk of the Assembly,
has been getting details of the marriage of his
son Alan, a soldier-doctor, in London on June
5. The bride is Mary Cicely Wicksteed.
daughter of J. Hartley Wicksteed* a civil
engineer of Leeds. Mary Cicely wore white
satin and court train, to show off some
wonderful old creamy-yellow Limerick lace
that had been worn by her great-grandmother.
Mrs. Wicksteed held a reception afterwards,
and the pair went ’mooning to Scotland.
They make a bolt for home and Melbourne
as soon as Captain Newton is relieved from
military duties in London.
An Australian girl in Canada writes of
the marriage of Miscliel, the youngest of
the Cherniavsky trio, to Mary Rogers, whose
late papa was a royalty of sorts, being
known as the Sugar King. They have
gone honeymooning in the south of France.
Etcher John Shirlow has scored again.
The Keeper of the Prints in the British
Museum has selected two of his etchings
("Bond-street” and “Princes Bridge”) for
England’s national collection. The B.M.
had already a copy of the early volume
known amongst art-lovers as “The Five
Etchings,” which Shirlow produced in an
issue limited to 25 at two guineas. One of
these was sold recently in Melbourne for 20
guineas. Princes Bridge is an old friend of
John’s; Bond-street is a beautiful souvenir
of his recent Sydney visit.
Andrew Carnegie died on Monday.
Andrew Brown died the same day. Both
men had money—Carnegie, GO millions or
so ; Brown, a shilling or two. Both were 84;
each had white whiskers. Carnegie gave
large sums to establish libraries; Brown
devoted considerable time to reading therein.
Further —but what are coincidences to the
worms?
“Jim M.”: Melbourne has just been en-
riched by another of Max Meldrum’s full-
length portraits. This time it’s Archbishop
Mannix. Meldrum has painted him as the
people know him—tall, thin, stern, dignified
and gaunt, in black robes and purple hat.
The likeness is magnificent, and, as usual,
the artist has given a fine sensation of space
and atmosphere around the figure. The
portrait was done in the Archbishop’s
library at Raheen. and a brilliant top-side
light has been used. It’s to be hoped that
the faithful will secure it and hang it
where all can see it.


£
IS =
illllllllllllllllllll llllllllll[|lllllltllllllllllllllllll[llllll)llllllllHllllilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll)lllllllllllll[llllllllll)lllll[lll[)llllllllllllllllllll)llllllllllll(IIIIIIIIIIIIHi)lllllllllllllllllllllHllllllH)lllllllHnilil)lllfr.
r
i!
I, .
i
t;l
=
AMSULMI
ij'V
► »■:
=
VW)
W/
. f <*
L/ ’Tr
6
pHllllllllK
= SJII i
SI
a
iii/iiiiifiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuifiiiifiiiiiiiimliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiuiiniiiiuiil
Common Sense
and
Stimulants
Excess in the use of stimulants, no matter what the kind, is always
harmful, and no amount of argument will alter the fact. Alcoholic
beverages were intended for intelligent use, not abuse, and- when
they are good and used in moderation they have a beneficial action
upon the human system.
The meaning of the word “ whisky ” has been much distorted, and
has been applied to an endless array of deleterious intoxicants which
even in small quantities always acts injuriously. The word “whisky”
should be applied only to a stimulant which is made of pure in-
gredients.
Whisky that can justly lay claim to be wholesome should possess a
nutrient value and partake substantially of the natuie of a liquid
food. Its chief virtue should consist in exhilarating and sustaining
harmlessly. Its use should be attended with piofit to health.
When whisky has been skilfully made from pure and wholesome in-
gredients it improves by lapse of time. That is a peculiarity of the
genuine article. Deleterious ardent intoxicants, no mattei how long
kept,, never grow wholesome. The good only ripens with age,
developing fine fragrance,, mellowness, and softness which render it
delightful.
DEWAR’S
The Whisky of Great Age.


Under
Royal
Warrant
To H.M.
George V
CHAMPAGNE
Charles Heidsierk
champagne
‘iarlesHddsiedc
Heims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
THE
BRAND of QUALITY.
AND
PRESERVING
TRADE MARK
REGISTERED
e a*
*W.4 OZS NET v,\o:
tov<s
MS
OPEN
C9J
FOR
LINOS, WOOD FLOORS, etc.
There is ONLY ONE “ NUGGET.”
Refuse Just as Good.
Hotel de Luxe .
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
The Healthiest and most Beautiful Spot on
the Harbor. As warm in Winter as the South
of France.
Recommended by the Minister for Health and
the Medical Faculty. Finest Cuisine. Hot
and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Beautiful Beaches,
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths,
Fishing.
Tariff, from 12/6 per day, or
£3/10/- per week.
Tels.: Y3OOl, 3002.
Apply Manager.
VANITY FAIR
SILK GLOVES
THAT Final Touch —the last perfection-
giving grace that completes my cos-
tume—is always Vanity Fair Silk Gloves.
I can choose smart new styles in all colors,
with a fabric of wonderful durability. Then,
too, they’re double-tipped for double-wear.
Every pair contains this Guarantee: —
“If these Gloves wear through at the finger-
tips at any time before they are washed, and
before the rest of the Glove has had reasonable
wear, we will, upon receipt of this ticket
and your Gloves, replace them with a new
pair.”
THE SYDNEY AGENT FOR THE MILL IS
EMPOWERED TO REDEEM THIS GUARANTEE
TO THE MERCHANT. [5
Hi
Sydney Town Hall on the night v qf - the
civic ball might have been a in?a
woodland: there was greenery yeverywhete
except on the dancing space. Banked and
massed around th<£ galleries,the fetri and 1 the
gum rose from beds and - stretched to
a trailing, web-lika canopy of tender leaves.
Laurel wreaths punctuated the festoons of
greenery, and caught a moonbeam glowMro’m
the myriads of greeuly-blue electric lights
among the foliage:. Blending with the soft
green were hundreds of little amber lights,
whose rays melted into a deeper golden
radiance filtered through the yellow gauze
that shaded the usually glaring clusters.
Mayor Richards, all robe and civic cable,,
and Mrs. Richards, in gold tissue over prim-
rose satin, received the long, long queue of
nearly 3000 guests as they entered from the
vestibule, ‘Where the improperly-handsome
chandelier, like some ‘ brilliant courtesan,
scintillated with uproarious laughter as it
looked down on respectability slipping out of
its armless frock. The Sea Lord arid his
wife, the G.-G.’s and the State Exes., the
heavy artillery of the evening, were sur-
rounded by companies of the Ministry with
its wife, the Navy, and a regiment of gent,
helps. At 9.30 the Mayoral hosts
greeted the gentry and escorted them to the
dais, and after preliminary whisperings they
danced the official lancers with due
solemnity. Lady Helen’s old-rose brocade
curtseyed decorously to Mayor Richards’s
rolie; Mrs. Richards tripped it with Sir
Ronald ; Lady Davidson in black satin steered
Jellicoe through heavy seas; and Jetficoe’s
viscountess in softest blue acted as prompt
to Sir Walter. Four posies of pale, pink
roses, one cluster of violets, and three
diamond tiaras twinkled through the figures.
The Timothy Coghlans (the semi-colons
as they are sometimes called) , she in softest
black, with daughter in China blue, were
among the Government House throng; Com-
modore Dumaresq and Admiral Grant gave
the approval of the Nav.v. All the female
titles wore black, varying it as to texture
and accessories. Very handsome looked the
Sam Hordern lady, and Thomas Hughes’s
wife, added inlets of lace to her attire; Mel-
bourne Mayoress Cabena had one of the
prettiest white heads and softest black.,frocks
in the crowd. Mrs. Tom Dixson is becoming
known as the woman with the fan: this
time she carried three wonderful tangerine
plumes caught together with a tortoiseshell
handle. Mrs. Monty Severn’s violet velvet
attracted all eyes; Mrs. Sep Levy carried
ruchings of ostrich feathers on her lavender
grey ninons; Judge Rolin’s wife added
dignity to old-rose brocade; Mrs. Philip Mor-
ton wove 90 guineas’ worth; Ruth Beale
evolved economy in dress from richest Pom-
padour brocade.,. The Consuls and their
wives were there. Two Spanish beauties
from Manila Wore Carmen-like hair-combs
and lace scarves; General Finn was in his
scarlet, with Mrs. Finn and Kathleen. There
was the lady with the arrangement you see
in the ad. for “wrinkles removed in one
night,” only she wore the contraption over
her hair and the strap beneath her chin.
Oceanic-liner Mrs. J. D. Spreckels brought
a strong array of beauty in rose-pink
brocade and gold tissue ; and Muriel Window
wore the same back as on the New Zealand,
but had a blue topknot this time.
Viscount Jellicoe and his cosy little
Countess shook the innumerable hand that
was bidden to the dance on the New Zea-
land. The battleship loomed grey and
graceful through the misty night as the
launches came alongside. Then it was up
the steep ladderways and on to the quarter-
deck for the handshake and the dancing.
Banks of violet and lily, with a fountain
that converted exhaust steam into a spray of
silver, decorated the awning-enclosed space.
There were Jack Tars, too. ringing the
dancers with red ropes, which was an ab-
surdity that the free Australian rather dis-
approved of, on the ground that sailors are
not paid to act as monuments at the feast.
The fo’c’s’le, a lure for the sitter-out, was
arranged with forests of palms and bunting
and chairs for two. Two God Save the
Kings were played, one to greet the David-
sons. and later everybody stood stiff while
the Sea Lord’s lady dipped her gold-brocaded
body in a curtsey to the Munro-Fergusons.
Lady Helen was in oyster brocade, mixed
pearls with the diamonds of her tiara, and
displayed her Order of the. Grand Cross of
the British Empire. The sleekness of satin
shining through georgette caressed Lady
Davidson, who, not to be outdone by Mel-
bourne, wore her 0.8. E. Mrs. Sep Levy
wore a short black dress heavy with jet
lustres, and clashed as she walked like a
Castilian dancing girl; Mrs. Philip Morton,
on the other hand, trailed several cables of
a brocade train to a very narrow skivL
Judge Rolin’s wife, in rose bfocade, ku&-
gested salons and old masters; the Hordern
and Coghlan ladies ifcere in black; pretty
Muffle Layton wore swathings of pink
weighted flown with fringe; thistledown
Toto Beifh floated about in ivory satin;
poetess Dorothea Mackellar spurned the
muse for one night and went gay in softest
grey ; and Muriel Window put all her dress-
gobdS in the shop front and bared her spinal
column'to the night breeze,, though she pro-
tected her hair with a six-foot hoarding of
bird of paradise plumes; and Valerie Daven-
port's, three bridesmaids brought their wed-
ding garments and bouquets.
Never , lias Mrs. Holman looked better or
brighter than she did on the New Zealand
last Tue’sday ; and at the Lord Mayor’s ball
on Wednesday in a rich gown of cloth of
gold shdiWas tne life of the vice-regal set.
“Have you any little boys’ hats, Mrs.
Rutter?” “Mrs. Rutter, you said you’d try,
to get me a pair of shoes size 4.” “Lady,
have,you got any 15?
collars?” The fiiie
face that May Moore'
here portrays turns
from one eager ques-
tioner to another.
Five and six deep
they had gathered
around stall 217,
near the Hay-street
entrance to Paddy's
Market. Some had
even mounted a
neighboring vacant
stall, and from that
vantage looked down
upon the treasures
that Mrs. Rutter
and her workers had
gathered for the
monthly jumble, the
result of which goes to the pet scheme of
the Elizabeth-street Voluntary Workers’
cafe, and. that is the building of soldiers’
homes.
It was a bit of Sydney that had no part
in the Fleet festivities that clustered and
clattered around the enclosure. Children’s
clothes were snapped up ; the thinnest purse
came out when a baby’s hat was held aloft,
and there was keen competition for a red
cap. In the background tiny tots played
about, and dangling her legs a little girl in
a faded-blue hat sat on the near-by vacant
stall nursing the family’s newest baby and a
large dress-basket —sat with drooping
shoulders, and no flicker of interest in her
surroundings. A flapper secured a white
sunshade. Men from the back clamored for
hats—something to wear on a Sunday. A
pair of swans whose outspread wings formed
a vase evoked a flutter. A woman at the
top of the line secured them, while a little
lady at the lower end sighed with envy. “I
would lfa’ liked them ducks,” she confided to
her neighbor. So the sale went on. At
noon the sun pushed its way through the
arched entrance; but the most venturesome
shaft fell short of the little girl in the faded
blue hat.
When Mrs. Rutter first thought of her
enterprise to help the soldiers and that
other Sydney we are loudly told does not
exist, she was informed that she could not
carry it out because she wasn’t licensed. The
following week she became - Florence Rutter,
licensed second-hand-clothes dealer, and that
license is laying the corner-stone of many a
soldier’s home.
Paddington Town Hall lifted up its head
when the Matrons gave it a chance to
show what it used to be in the days when
every properly-conducted ball rolled through
it. A new floor has been laid down re-
cently, and it sustained the reputation of
its predecessor. Mrs. Rabett had the decora-
tions in hand, and oranges—real, juicy
oranges—hung from the boughs that lat-
ticed the walls, and tendrils of yellow
blooms drooped above the heads of dancer
and sitter-out alike. Everybody was satis-
fied—even the head of the orchestra, who
midway through the night slipped out a
little sign to say who was responsible for
the music; but like the Lady of Shalott, one
of the matrons made three paces through
the room, whispered peremptorily and the
little sign was withdrawn. The Osbornes
were there and the Dangars and Mrs. Alec
Hay; and the Knoxes and the Reggy Allens
were among those who dropped £2O each to
build up the evening’s success.
Peaches and peach-bloom made Sydney
Town Hall a place of delight when the
Queen’s Club emerged from its social
seclusion of the past six years. Arch upon
arch of the soft pink blossom and a tender
rose-glow from the pink-petticoated lights
gave middle-age the cheek of the deb., and
the deb. became as appetising as the fruit
of the blossom surrounding her. The vice-
regals were there, and, although Tasmanian
Governor Newdegate did his best to put
some dash into it, the official lancers re-
mained coldly correct. The Ladies Helen
and Davidson swapped husbands for the
4 set the lady; of the New Zealand walked
the deck with Tasmania; the Viscount part-
nered Mrs. G. E. Rich; and Mrs. Richards
chassed to Chief-Justice Cullen. Lady
Helen and the Mayoress both wore cloth, .of
gold; the Davidson lady trimmed her black
georgette with handsome jet; Miss Macar-
thur Onslow wore the family lace on her
cream satin; Chief-Justice Cullen’s wife
chose the quiet of mole; Mrs. Edward Noyes
wore the luxury of velvet, and Mrs. Toohey
the softest blue satin and a fortune in
diamonds; the ethereal beauty of Mrs. Alec
Hay outrivalled her diamond necklet; Grace
I’alotta brought her old charm and held
court in misty black; Mrs. Roy Buckland
came with her soldier-husband and one of
the prettiest frocks in the room; Nona Hay
chose lime color, and Barbara Knox was
statuesque in blue. The red head of Charlie
Bean gleamed among the khaki and the
Navy blue; Commodore Dumaresq made
himself agreeable all round; and S’Owen
of the chilled beeves added to the charm of
the ball.
_ The Jellicoe festivities ended with the recep-
tion at Government House, to which all the
naval, military and civil heavyweights and
the 0.8.E.’s who had littered the functions of
the week turned up in force. Governors
were thick, tiaras and diamonds bloomed on
nearly every second group, and by half-past
nine Society arid riear-Soeiety could scarcely
find foothold in the reception-rooms. Gent-
help D’Apice, who was crier, must have been
tired of his job before the last arrival had
shaken the vice-regal and Jellicoe hands
and drifted to its own unit in the ballroom,
at whose lower end young things had an
occasional dance when the music proved
irresistible. From the gallery Daphne and
Diana watched the grown-ups at play.
Lady Davidson had brought out all her
diamonds to embellish her black frock.
Lady Helen wore her pearls and diamonds,
and some folds of the blue sky made into a
velvet dress. Lady Jellicoe hinted that the
sea has its diamonds, and displayed them in
conjunction with the softest pink georgette.
The Knox and the Windeyer families were
represented, and Mrs. Alec Hay’s slimness
brought drapings of palest gold and the
diamond collar. There were bits of the
Telegraph and the Herald. Netherlands
came in uniform with much silver braid.
U.S.A. and Finland were in ordinary dress
suits. General Finn wore all his medals
against his scarlet. The Archgaiters Wright
brought two roses-and-cream daughters. The
Dean was there with his wife, who got the
full effect out of her auburn hair by wearing
black. The Landers looked in after Harry’s
show. Mrs. Moates brought the prettiest
raven head and the 'tallest husband in the
room. Mrs. Pickburn was in grev; and
through all the flash of satin and jewels and
gold braid the cardinal robes of the Papal
Delegate moved with a. serene dignity.
The uninvited have been religiously ex-
cluded from the functions. in honor of the
Jellicoes. Quite a number used to come
along, in the bad old days, without an in-
vitation, while others who had one for them-
selves w T ere in the habit of bringing a party.
For the first time in the history of Govern-
ment House a St. Peter was at the front
door allowing none to pass without a card
of invitation. And at the Lord Mayor’s ball
a staff barred the way of the intruder.
Sir Francis Newdegate is the guest of his
Ex. and Lady Davidson during his visit to
Sydney. Lady Newdegate is on her way to
England.
The bluejackets had their ball on Thurs-
day in the Town Hall, when the same decora-
tions prevailed as for the civic ball. The
dignitaries came and did their turn.
From a Brisbane roof:—
Auburn-haired Hazel Willcocks, in whose honor
half the teacups of Brisbane have been rattled lately,
was ma ried the other Wednesday evening at Wyn-
berg, the Willcocks’ home, to Capt. Stan Schooley,
R.F.C. Col.-Chaplain Merrington tied the knot and
brother Bob gave the bride away. She was gowned
in white silk tulle over white satin, finished with
silver. Her bridesmaids were Betty Cockbum and
Phyllis Coakes. Betty paraded in silver and eau-
de-nil tissue, and Phyllis in moonlight blue and
silver.
Betty Cockburn is to play leading lady at her own
wedding next month. Her brideg oom will be Tom
Leitch, who was best man at the Willcocks-Schooley
outing.
Another Wedhesday wedding was provided by
Lieut. J. Shaw, a recently returned soldier, and
popular Millicent Panton, whose two soldier brothers
got home the other day.
Arrived back on Wednesday night, Major Tom
Macleod, our barrister airman, who has a Croix de
Guerre and palm, as well as the 0.8. E.
In honor of the linking-up of Valerie, only
daughter of the Davenports, of Dar-
ling Point, and Surgeon Lieut.-Commander
Devas, a wedding wreath was hung aloft be-
tween the masts of the New Zealand last
week. Sydney society knows the slim and
blonde Valerie, who ratified her surrender
to the Navy at St. James’s, where favorite
marriage-contractor Micklem, helped by
Chaplain Crick of the battleship, joined the
hands of the good-looking couple. She wore
a weeding gown cut on lines that whispered
of vestal virgins, and ended in a burst of
tulle arid silver that resembled a cloud of
silver foam; a,tjfl, a circlet of heather and
orange-blossom held the tulle veil to the
golden head. Yellow georgette and tulle
hats the shade of an autumn leaf clothed the
three bridesmaids —Jean Martin, Janet Knox
and Valentine Osborne. Of a corresponding
number were the aquamarines who stood by
the bridegroom. The crowds that thronged
the kerb at any rate got a fine show of rows
of blue and gold young men and the
flash of their swords as they crossed in mid-
air for the arch of steel under which the
upstanding young couple passed to their car.
The Jellicoes (St. James’s register bears
John Rushworth’s signature now) were the
big fish for the reception at the. Australia.
Valerie and the tall young surgeon met
for the first time in Melbourne when the
Fleet arrived, so despatch was the keynote
of the courtship.
“Billy” Longworth, the adipose long-
distance swimming notability, was married
in London a few days ago. lie enlisted
in 191 G. Once in the A.I.F. he soon
made good, and he returns a full-blown
“loot.” He belongs to the affluent Thomas
Longworth family who inhabit the biggest
private dwelling in Sydney—Woollahra
House.
Scores of well-known people are in mourn-
ing over the death of pretty Miss Dorothy
Dangar, the youngest of the 11. C. Dangar
girls. She was staying with Mrs. Harold
Pape—Audrey, only daughter of George
Chirnside, of Melbourne, before her recent
marriage—when she got ’flu in rts worst
form. The only member of the family
there at the time was General Horace
Dangar, her eldest brother, who is himself
a sick man. Amongst the Sydney relatives
besides her brothers and sisters and their
families are the Lambs, Laidleys ami
Arthur Allens.
In spite of the absence of titles, StT. John’s
College dance was one Of the successes of
the week. The boys had ;) decorated the hall
and had seen that there were lots of cosy-
chairs for sitters-out. But nobody under 60
was a sitter-out —the boys saw to that —and
the Rector himself looked after the enjoy-
ment of every guest.
Ski-ing is raging at Kosciusko, and the
hotel that sits in the vicinity of the eternal
snows is full. The champion performer on
the. contrivances which resemble polished
palings is Dr. Schlink, the fair, golden-haired
Macquarie-street specialist. Last week he
and Miss Margaret Allen skied 34 miles in
one day. Another hardened expert at this
arduous sport is young Arthur Pitt, the
barrister.
On September 5 Oxford Hall will surge
with the postponed fete in aid of the Went-
worth Free Kindergarten, and in the even-
ing Bort Fahey will supply the latest in
syncopation.
September 2 will see the first of the much-
postponed Rose Balls. The decorations are
to be roses, roses all the way; and the
following evening the kiddies will show their
idea of a decorated scooter and a costume
representation of the nations. The Hostel
for Women and the Rand wick Infants’ Hos-
pital reap the harvest.
The Peace Offering Ball has been post-
poned until October 2, which is in Race
week, and the other G.-G.’s are coming over
to help.
The Freddie Shipmans farewelled concert-
manager Jack Griffiths at the Australia last
week. Jack is on his way to conquer the
States. Florrie Young brought him a pre-
sent —a wristlet watch. Mrs. Hugh Ward
was there, and Freddie was the male sup-
port.
Gwen Nelson is going to New York to
join the movies. One of the directors of the
Fox Films has been in Sydney, and, re-
membering the clever work the Sydney girl
did in the Fox studio in Los Angeles, he
approached father and mother, and the re-
sult is that Gwen is packing to catch the
outgoing Makura.
Doris Sawer, of Windsor, has promised
to lead Clutha Mackenzie, son of the M.L.
High Commissioner, through life: you re-
member he lost his eyesight at tne war. He
is travelling on the New Zealand as the
guest of the Admiral and Lady Jellicoe.
Edith Howes, who wrote that delightful
book for children, “Sun Babies,” has been
in Sydney on the way to Adelaide. She
was on the staff of the Wellington Girls’
College, but now transfers to a school in
S. Aus.


m :
-
bij
: :
HU
fl
1
* \ ■;
ittlPiiillfclil
!
-
- . n
3 \
llliiiill
i
■■■
-
m ' tm ' st I?
m
IE
1 u
\ 1' \ty
- ••;.;•:•••• if— |IC :
.* !
►
f om j ¥r i
•• •••• '' f
yv\y !•£ s
MMmN' tv**
fP •••
.' '” -’
;■>; %
IPliilllill
iMMi
MOH
»
r«
■*«
n
ssr
1
SFJ
JL
, ' v'V J ', jv;
:: : - . U
i
.
■■mm
V % .. s
,
liliiiiiiiiliii
i/Mi
t
* 4 t** i
■■ || ' g || £>; N §m
mm
II
w£m
■
v'
:
i
M
%
•i:
m
m
£
<■
mm
m
mSBm
A Reservoir of Abundant Power
* <
THE Engine of the
Studebaker Car
is distinguished by a
wonderful responsive-
ness that is an abiding,
delight. Here is a
reservoir of abundant
power — practically
limited only by the
will of the user-* —
wakened to instant
throbbing life by the
merest touch. For the
labored pull through
sand and mud —for the
searching tax of the
long, steep hills —for
the tight-corner amid
the congestion of street
traffic when instant
action is vital —you
need power; plenty of
power; all the abund-
ance of power yielded
bv the Studebaker
j
Engine. This is the
most powerful engine
in the world in ratio to
its weight and fuel con-
sumption. And yet
this tamed giant will
exert its strength with
flexible vibrationless
motion. No straining,
no rough jarring.
Cradled on its long,'
underslung springs,
the powerful Stude-
baker Car yields a
luxury of movement
that spells economy
and insures its own
long life.
STUDEBAKER SPECIAL FEATURES : The famous Silent L Head Engine;
the newly-designed Gear Box, swung on a Sub-Chassis amidships ; the Dou _e
Thermoid Coupling Forward; the Hotchkiss Drive; the Silent Spiral Bevel
Differential; Scientific Weight Distribution and Spring Suspension; Magneto
Ignition; Leather-trimmed Khaki Hoods; Goodyear Tyres throughout, and
Complete Equipment.
THE STUDEBAKER CORPORATION OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED,
Head Office for Australia : 177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
South Australian Branch : 1 Currie Street, Adelaide
Turner Bros., 398 Fwanston Street, Melbourne.
Armstrong C« & M. Agency* Hay Street, I ertb.
C. C. & M. A. Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
New Zealand : Adams Limited,
Christchurch, Timaru,
Palmerston, North l^fanganui


OLLARS
ft
V '
OF course, it is the STYLE
in a PELACO Collar
that first attracts you.
The shape illustrated the
‘ ‘Daimler' ’ —is an interpretation
of to-day’s latest and smartest
style—a gentleman’s collar.
Look, for the PELACO brand
on it when purchasing: it is
your guarantee of qua.ity.
Made in Australia
IVearalso Shirts & Pyjamas
“THERE’S MONEY IN THE PEN.”
as
m
Tlie above,
is the? title'
of our book-
let, which.
''tells about
the possibilities
of D rawing—both '
as a | trofession and
as a i lastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
bv HARRY J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
~ .j i I
It explains the
difference between
leariiiDg to COPY
and to DRAW.
It pofints out the
pitfalflg to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains, in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why j
Weston tuition is *
the most success-
ful.
Send three
penny stamps
to-day for a
copy of this
booklet—
“THEßE’S
MONEY
IN
THE
PEN.”
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
140 Waltham Buddings, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY.
Esterbirook’s Pens.
'VJ'OTHING is so good but there may. be a better.
The thousands ot' folk who like our Kelief Pen might
do well to write us for a sample of our No. 908.
Worth a trial. Send 2 id. in stamps for cost of
postage on free samples to
ESTERBROOK, Box 98 G.P.0., Sydney.
AGNES PLATT,
4 Manchester St., London, W. England.
Advice given on plays, novels, cinemas.
Manuscripts placed. Plays produced.
Correspondence course in stage, novel
and cinema technique.
vtSk
51*
m/k^i^ourrv / ,-^W
EVERY HOME. NEEDS
[CASHS <®> NAMES
XO MARK ALL LINEN.
No matter what the Fabric may be —
CASH’S WOVEN NAMES should be on
hand for immediate attachment to any
Article before sending' to Laundry,
thus ensuring protection against loss.
Your name is woven into a fine
Cambric Tape in fast Color.
Prices—l2doz. 4/6; 6doz. 3/3; 3doz. 2/3.
Sold by all Best Drapers.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY
J. &. J. Cash Pty., Ltd.,
85 Cubitt Street, Richmond, VIC.
• - Write-for* Style Book. .
am
iis^it
n u
V
9 y. *
,
YOU CAN’T SHOW ME A
SADDLE I LIKE BETTER.
Bill Hart
on a
Walther 8
Stevenson
Saddle
PRESENTED TO
HIM BY OUR
AUSTRALIAN
PHOTO-PLAY
STAR,
SNOWY BAKER.
Write for our Fine
Illustated Catalogue.
130 Pages of Saddlery to
interest Every .Man on the
Land.
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON Ltd.,
SADDLERS,
393 George Street,
Sydney
Distinctive
ABBEY
SHOES.
Long wear and satisfaction, together with
distinctive styles in Footwear, are ex-
pressed in
ABBEY SHOES.
We illustrate a High-grade Patent Derby
Bal.,
Price - 50/-
Also in Tan Willow Calf,
Price - 47/6
They are made in half and full sizes, and
in three fittings—narrow, medium and
wide.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY.
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney
Missing Friends.
T/» WART. HENRY, deceased, late of
JTj Adelaide River, N.T., intestate. The
relatives of deceased, or any person knowing
their whereabouts, are requested to com-
municate with
THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Darwin, Northern Territory.
THE KEY TO
PROSPERITY.
QUEENSLAND
opens ihe door to
prosperity tor those
requiring land
Particulars ot the
millions of acres of
Crown - Land
now available will he
sent you at once,
also Booklets on the
State's resources—
FREE
ZVame
Address
Queensland Government
lateHileace and Tourist Bureau
&
<
to
This is the
Registered
Trade Mark
Of the best
place to get
your
Fishing Tackle,
Guns, Rifles,
Cartridges,
Tennis Goods, etc.
318 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
For our sick and wounded
BOYS. —When you have finished with
•this paper, kindly post to Red Cross Book
Depot. Wyn.vard Street. Sydney.
The O.C.S. Automatic Weighing Machine
FOR FREE RUNNING MATERIALS. NO POWER REQUIRED.
Manufacturers and Im-
porters of —
Roller Flour 31111
3lachinery
Oatmeal 3lill Machinery
Brewers' and Malsters’
3lachinery
Superphosphate
Machinery
Elevators of various
• designs
Apron Conveyors,
Gravity Conveyors
Adjustable Feeders
and Mixers
Flour and Bran Packers
Grinding Mills for all
Classes of Slaterials
Bottle-filling 3lachines
for Piccalilli, etc.
S/are F 4.
Farmer s’ Grain
Cleaners
Link Belting
Sprocket Wheels
Elevator Buckets
Complete Grinding and
Dressing Plants for
Sugar, Spices, Starch,
Paint, etc.
Package Elevators
Bag Holders
Disc Grinding Mills
Malt Roller Mills
MADE IN AUSTRALIA. SUPPORT OUR OWN INDUSTRIES.
Schumacher Mill Furnishing Works Pty. Ltd.,
PORT MELBOURNE, VICTORIA. [1
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
H. 5.11.: All right; “Centurion” was wrong
—the Ist, 2nd and 3rd L.H. Brigades never formed
the Aus. Mounted Division. And it will have to stop
at that J.G. (Hobart): Yes; but Meudell didn’t
propose that gold should be circulated.... Eliza AY.:
Fair; but it must be better than that on such a
worn topic Kevin R.: Whisper it to her in the
shade of the sheltering palm Shabbily Dressed:
Put the case plainly and concisely and we’ll print
it... .B.S. (M.L.) : The fact that you have only two
hours in which to do it explains but does not ex-
cuse the dreadful iesult....E. Brodie: “Burning
Off” is as rough as the scrub itself... .E.G.: Not
long ago it was a subject for discussion for weeks.
Can’t let it loose again.... C.: You will find it in
any old dictionary.. .E.J.A.J.: Batch of verse worth-
less. ... T.L.W.: “Diver Hughes” has gone to rest. ...
Anna Lee: No use to us. ...N.D. (Zeehan) : If yon
can live on as little as that you are saved all worry
about the cost of food. Didn’t several people,
ancient and modern, fast for 40 days?. .. .E.G.C.:
They don’t miss by much R.G. (Casino): Not
enough in it 0.8. (Glebe Point): The verse is
very lumpy and the theme mirthless and thin....
Trap: “The Last Post” is the worst verse this week ;
or it would be if you hadn’t forwarded “The Blue
Gum-tree”....E.W.8.: “Fulling Star” doesn’t con-
vince... .G.L.S.: Wrong. The theme is not new;
and the handling is not b ight G.F.D.: The verse
falls all to pieces C.K. (W.A.) : The “child of
your fancy” is as tasteless as a cold potato....
A.L.8.: Not good enough.... R.S.E.: Doesn’t’strike
us. .. .H.T. (Clayfield) : Not enough there. . . .G.C.C.:
Nothing fresh or unusual in it....L.W. (Mu-ramui-
rung) : Even a sermon, if it’s interesting enough,
we’ll print; but not yours.... R.H.8.: The metre
hops and bumps and the thought fires as badly as
a Japanese match. .. .J.C.F.: Haven’t a notion what
it can mean.... Paschendaele: Stiff, conventional
1 verse with little point. .. .Farewell: Yes, and no
flowers either.. .M.J.M.: “Miscalculation” and “The
Proving” haven’t quite enough in them. Let’s hear
again. .. .E.N.: Been asleep for the last 10 years?
Ever heard of Scott and Amundsen?. .. .N.A.G.: We
don’t reprint. Head the paper—that will be your
best guide to what we want... .N.S.G.: “Homeland”
not up H.G.H.: “Sleepless Night” won’t do.
Printable blank verse isn’t so easy... . Jaxn: Yes,
we could leave out part of it, but we prefer to
leave out the wh01e.... Fanuela: The “Grave”
didn’t draw forth one sob. . . .8.H.P.: No use to us.
... .Disgusted : Not by a long way. . . .D.P.M.:
Misses; but has some quality. .. .W.N. (Kalgoorlie) :
Dreary.... M.M. (St. James): Some color there, but
it does not move freely.... R.C. (Mackay) : No, no;
nothing like....H.C. (Spring Hill): Pretty, but no
punch. .. .J.M.M.: The prayer to “Devine Light,”
whatever that may be, is about as cheerful as the
repeated grunts of a donkey-engine. .. .N.G.:
“Vision” and “Reality” not very satisfactory....
E.J.H.: Not enough in “The Gu115.”... .Lynn: “A
Dark Subject” is bitter bad verse. .. .G.B. (Melb.) :
Too thin. .. .Magpie: If you are a schoolboy, as you
seem to be, there’s hope for you. . . .A.8.H.: One
verse, anyway: —
What is it we get fo- the slaughter we’ve caused—
And the wreckage that’s strewn o’er the fields?
Perhaps a hand-shake for old acquaintance sake,
Then some flag-waves—with a little applause.
But don’t forget the tea-and-a-bun. .. .Cameo:
Wretchedly told.. . .Wollong : Looks like a statement
of fact, but doesn’t make a yarn. . . .M.H.K.: “The
Beat” not for us Francois: Why do you put evil-
smelling details in ?. . . . H.H.S. : That bush-pub bath
is emptied for us twice a week. . . .A.D. (Mary-
borough) : It has a chance... .W.K.R.: Nothing in
it... .M.R.8.: No.. . .A.L.P.: Motor yarn rather
feeble. .. .W.F.A.: You have a nice f.ee style.
Sample:—
For never troubles nor wordly cares
Had affected his brave little heart;
Disregarding old girlg with ancient grey curls
Was the principal thing on his part.
At early morn he would come home
With a rabbit or two in the bargain,
And leave them about in the dining-room ;
But at this I would draw the margin.
... .C.V.P.: The sort of yarn we like to read when
we are not feeling as miserable as for our sins we
should. .. .E.J.8.: Too crude. .. .G.E.M. : Don’t like
the “Full Moon” verse.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
R.L.H.: Distorted people in an inkstomi....
Dooley: No man would make a remark of any sort to
such a hideous woman. He would breathe a prayer
of thanksgiving that he didn’t own her, and pass
on A.W.: Both men are furious. Perhaps they
know they are badly drawn.... Ethel A.: The Office
Draper wouldn’t pass it. . . .S.H.: The gag is old and
you can’t draw.... Frank D.: All jokes that begin
with “Garn” are looked at with an unf.iendly eye.
Anyhow, you’re not an artist yet.... J.W.G.: It
isn’t a very bright remark, but those people are too
dull to make it Chas. L.: It’s a boomerang
Henry W.: You are an optimist, Henry... Ferguson: ,
Don’t want small picture of small boy feeding snake,
or (it may be) interviewing snake, or (perhaps, v
again) asking snake to take a chair and rest its j
feet. The picture is so small that it leaves room
for nothing but doubt. .. .R.8.K.: The dentist may jl
draw from life, but you don’t. .. .H.H.8.: If people
really said such things murders would be more fre- '
quent 1.L.A.: Auntie is bad enough, but the
camouflaged child is worse. .. .L. 8.: Somebody has
stamped on the lady’s hands.... T.C.: The drunk is $
too crumpled and his face looks like an old boot. |
“Munga Munga”: In Egypt a leakage
amongst uncased tins of petrol, stacked so
closely that no air currents could pass
through to' assist evaporation, resulted in an
explosion which made the Pyramids rock.
At another critical period 7000 gallons of
petrol went up in flames, at the Hamadan
Persian base of the Locker-Lamson Armored
Car Corps. Despite the difficulties about
securing petrol, this force, which included
many Australians, fought in Russia from
1915 to 1918 before making a final run to
safety from Central Russia, through Bol-
shevik territory, to Persia. During the
Turkish rout a huge bonfire of inflammable
material heaped round thousands of tins of
petrol failed to explode a single tin. The
inch of space allowed for expansion suc-
cessfully neutralised the effect of the intense
heat.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
Private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Looms.
Electric T.ifts and Laundries.
Eor all information regarding saiiing
dates, and First-. Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
lel - —City 4246, 2,4, (> Spring Street,
4Sio! Sydney.
Sydney to England
via
the Allied Route,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, SEPTEMBER 10.
VENTURA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Telephone: City 2282. 44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Bunking. Public Companies. See.
the;
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
lit. (Chairman) ; WILLIAM DAVIES ; E. H. I
MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ; lion. Sir ROBERT PHILP,
K.C.M.G.; Hon. A. J. TITYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Cilice: Brisbane.
Sydney Ollice: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to .Tune 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital . . . . . . £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital . . ~ .. 691,850 10 0
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 247,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since ISOS specially protected.
Directors —Gefl. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W r . Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love. Esq. ;
W. H. Hart, Esq. ; Joseph Hughes, Esq., J.S.O.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD Oi'T'ICE - BRISBANE.
Brandies —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Afrioa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid lip £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £160,000
Directors: MARK SHELDON, Esq., Chairman;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LLI). ; FRANK N.
YARWOOD, Esq.; HERBERT R. LYSAGHT,
Esq.; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon. F.
JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.
‘ General Manager-. C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Chief Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. 11. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedie Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 139 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares. . . . . . 750,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up .. .. .. 1,000.000
Uncalled Capital 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,496,224
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
GRANTS DRAFTS
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
MACDONALD,
HAMILTON S CO.
Managing Agents for
Australasian ! United Steam Navigation (£«.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co. Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates Ltd.
Blackheath Collieries Limited.
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Shipping, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (IM.Z.)i Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST, FASTEST. AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
R.M.S. MAKURA, AUGUST.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, AUGUST.
The most beautiful Scenery in the World —the Canadian Rockies —is on the All-Red Route.
The Prairies, the Great Lakes, Chicago, Niagara Falls and New York can all be visited.
Through bookings to all Canadian, United States and European points.
Stop-overs on the Railways Arranged.
CALL OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS OF THIS ROUTE.
PASSENGERS CAN CHANGE AT HONOLULU INTO A DIRECT STEAMER FOR
SAN FRANCISCO.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings toSan Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
Tile Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
ISLAND TOURS.
Now is the Time to Visit the PACIFIC ISLANDS.
DELIGHTFUL TOURS to
NORFOLK ISLAND and NEW HEBRIDES.
SOLOMON ISLANDS.
PAPUA and RABAUL.
Trips of Four, Five and Seven Weeks’ Duration.
BURNS, PHILP 8 CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Directors
£3,912,440
£3,100,000
£3,912,440
£10,924,880
The Hon. Sir Cnarles
M.L.C., President.
F. B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J.
K. MaclCellar, IC.C.M.G
, M.H.R.
Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Charles Binnie, Esq,
Kobert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Auditors : S. E. Laidley, Esq. ; A. G. Milson, Esq. General Manager: Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
340 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout, the World.
dommonwaltß
HEAD OFFICE
JBank c SustraKa
SYDNEY. ■
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking* Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain),
also London (2), and A.I.F. Camps in England.
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and SAVINGS BANK AGENCIES at 2776 Post Offices
throughout Australia, Papua, New Britain, Solomon Islands,
and The Pacific.
JAMES KELL, DENISON MILLER,
Deputy Governor 1919 Governor
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1834.
Capital paid up £2,382,018 15
Reserve Fund - £2,120,000 0
Reserve Capital £2,500,000 0
£7,002,018 15
0
0
0
0
V
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses, M.L.C.
J. W* Macarthur Onslow, Esq.
0. E. Friend, Esq.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Branch: 18 Birchin Bane, E.C.
London Bankers — The Bank of England; The London County, Westminster and
Parr's. Bank. Limited; Barclays Bank, Limited.
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Shipping.
Sydney Inter-State
Sub-Committee.
INTER-STATE SAILINGS SUSPENDED
OWING TO STRIKE.
Huddart Parker LiM
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND. —Regular sail-
ings between Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand
ports and vice versa; particulars to be obtained on
application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA.—From Sydney tc
Hobart and vice versa every three weeks. Between
Melbourne and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; George Street, Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwilhimbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon -on
steamer, £6 11s.; second-class rail and steerage on
steamer, £4 ss.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST,, SYDNEY.
3A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE FINE TWIN-SCREW STEAMER
“LEVUKA,” 6500 tons,
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
The “Levuka” is fitted with wireless and with
every modern convenience for the comfort of passen-
gers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 20
days, and from Sydney 18 days. Passengers desiring
a more extended tour can travel by S.S. “Amra,”
which connects at Suva.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald
Hamilton & Co., 460 Collins Street,
Melbourne, or Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
Favorite Mail Route to Japan, with connections
at Japan to
,* EUROPE AND AMERICA.
Tours can be arranged to China, Japan, Korea,
bv this Line.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN.
Via Brisbane, Townsville, Thursday
Island, Zamboanga, Manila, Hongkong,
Nagasaki, Kobe, and Yokohama.
Passengers must obtain from the Quarantine
Authorities permits to leave New South AVales at least
three days before the steamer’s departure.
SPECIAL NOTICE. —All Passengers proceeding- to
JAPAN must have their Passports vised by the Con-
sul-General for Japan in accordance with the regula-
tions of the Japanese Government
Full particulars of Sailing Dates, Passage Money,
Freights, etc., apply
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LTD.,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
SYDNEY OFFICE: 105 PITT STREET.
Paid-up Capital . . . . . . £500,000
Reserve Fund . . . . . . .. 570,000
£1,070,000
Uncalled capital . . . . .. 125,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . 625,000
£1,820,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 85 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADENIIALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Although over £750,000 was paid dur-
ing 1918 in War Claims alone, the
Cash Bonus Distributed for 1918
exceeded.. .. .. . . .. £1,000,000
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. .. £1,700,000
Accumulated Funds exceed .. .. £39,000,000
Annual Income over .. .. .. £5,500,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, General Manager.
SOLDIERS’ DIARIES.
THE Mitchell Library is desirous of pur-
chasing for the State Archives original
diaries of Australian Soldiers taking part
in the • Great War. Good prices will be
paid for good material. Address Mitchell
Library, Macquarie Street, Sydney.
For the Trustees.
W. H. IFOULD,
Principal Librarian and Secretary.
Iho Standard Remedy which has outlived the Cantiinf*.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since 1596. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
Si GREEN, 210. Lambeth Road.’ London. England
Insist on “ Singleton’s’’—refuse all substitutes.


Amusement*.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Lt<i.
Governing Director HUGH D. McINTOSH.
'I V 01,1
T II E A T It E, S V I) N K Y
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MatinSes Wednesday and Saturday at 2.30.
A BOX O’ TRICKS.
Another Sparkling Musical Cocktail.
Plans at Nicholson’s and the Tivoli.
*|"IVOLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, AUGUST 16.
HUGH D. McINTOSH REVIVES
THE FASCINATING MUSICAL PLAY.
MY LADY FRAYLE.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- & 1/-, plus tax.
H
It R M A .1 E S T Y ’ S, s V I) N K V.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY.
A SEASON OF GRAND OPERA.
IL TROVATORE
Friday, 15th, and Wednesday, 20th.
'FAIJST
Saturday, 16th, and Tuesday, 19th.
CAVALLEItIA RUSTIC ANA & I PAGLIACCI
Monday, 18th, and Wednesday Matinee, 20th.
It 1 T E It 1 O N T II E A T It K. Mll\ lit .
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY.
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
and FLORENCE YOUNG.
OH, OH, DELPHINE!
Plan at Paling's.
D A I, A C E T II E A T It E, S Y I) N E Y.
Sole Direction—J. & N. TAIT.
Nightly at 8. Matinees Wednesdays and Saturdays.
HARRY LAUDER,
the World’s Greatest .Entertainer,
and
INTERNATIONAL COMPANY OF ARTISTS.
Prices: 10/-, 7/6, 5/-, 3/-, 2/-
Plans at Nicholson’s.
u
N t O N PICTURE T II 15 A T It K s
THE PICK OF THE AVORLD’S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYCEUM
STRAND. GLOBE, LYRIC. EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC, GRAND, KING’S CROSS,
. WEST’S-OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
|a| Kit MAJESTY’S THEATRE. M EI,HO UItIV 1C
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, AUGUST 16.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. revive the Ever Popular
HIGH JINKS.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
TH 15 A T It E It O Y A 1,. MELBOURNE.
■ Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, AUGUST 16.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. p esent the Famous Play
of Sentiment, Pathos and Humor,
LIGHTNIN’
Plan at Allan’s.
Prices as usual.
KING’S Til EATER. MEI,ItOU It N E.
Lessees: BAILEY & GRANT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. & N. TAIT Present the Sparkling Comedy,
DADDIES.
Prices as usual.
Plan at Allan’s.
U OYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
■ ■ Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKF. STREET, and LYCEUM (ovei
Princes Bridge).
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
MADLAINE TRAVERSE in
THE DANGER ZONE.
GEO. WALSH in ON THE JUMP.
Prices as usual.
A.I ESTIC THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
STOLEN ORDERS.
THE FAMOUS DRURY LANE MELODRAMA.
Matinfies daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
Plans at Allan’s.
QIACIARICM, MELBOURNE.
ICE-SKATING.
SEASON NOW OPEN.
DI GILIO’S BAND.
gItITANNIA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
|y| ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH. PAIIIE.
WORLD and SELZNICIv.
Legal Notice.
I N THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENSLAND.
1 MATRIMONIAL JURISDICTION.
No. 291 of 1919.
MR. JUSTICE CHUBB.
BETWEEN WALTER ROBINSON Plaintiff and
SARAH ROBINSON. Defendant and WILLIAM
NEWTON Co-Defendant.
To the Defendant SARAH ROBINSON and to the
Co-Defendant WILLIAM NEWTON.
TAKE NOTICE that this action was commenced
against you on the Eighteenth day of July 1919 and
that the Plaintiff by his Writ of' Summons claims a
dissolution of his marriage with the defendant
Sarah Robinson AND by his Petition filed in this
Honorable Court on the said Eighteenth day of July
1919 alleges that the defendant committed adultery
with the co-defendant and the co-defendant com-
mitted adultery with the defendant at Montpelier-
road Brisbane in the State of Queensland in or
about the year 1902 and at Degilbo in the said
State in or about the year 1905 as therein stated
AND TAKE NOTICE that the Court by Order dated
the twenty-fifth day of July 1919 authorised service
of the said Writ and Petition upon the defendant
and co-defendant by fixing a copy of the said Writ
of Summons and a copy of the said Petition filed
herein on the Notice Board in the Registry of this
Honorable Court and by inserting an advertisement
(to be approved by the Registrar) once in a News-
paper published in Maryborough in the State of
Queensland and once in the Queenslander published
in Brisbane in the said State and once in the
Sydney Bulletin a Newspaper published at Svdnev
in the State of New South Wales. AND TAKE
NOTICE that each of you is required within thirtv
days from the date of the insertion of the last of
tlie said advertisement's to cause an appearance to
be entered for you at the Registry of the Supreme
Court of Queensland at Brisbane AND that in
default of your so doing the nlaintiff may proceed
in this action AND that judgment may be given
against you in your absence.
Dated the thirtieth day of July 1919.
(L.s.) CHAS. S. NORRIS,
Registrar.
JAMES J. DESMOND.
Solicitor for Plaintiff, George-street, Brisbane.
Missing Friends.
\A7 ANTED to know the whereabouts of CATITER-
vv INE COUGHLIN, daughter of FRANCIS
COUGHLIN, of Clonlyne, and BETTY WHALEN', of
Newtown, King’s County, Ireland. In case that she
is dead, then I would like to hear from anv of
her descendants, or friends who may be able to'give
me any information of her. She ‘left Clonascarra,
King’s County, for Australia many years ago..
MELBOURNE AND OTHER AUSTRALIAN
PAPERS PLEASE COPY.
Any information of her will be appreciated by her
nephew, son of her sister Dorothy (generally called
“Dora”).
Address: FRANCIS J. CLARKE,
34 Wall Street.
Brockton, Mass., United States of America.
Public Notice.
KALUMPANG TIN NO LIABILITY,
Kalumpang, Federated Malay States.
NTOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN THAT A DIVIDEND
(the 2nd) of Is. per share has been declared
payable at the legistered office of the Company,
National Mutual Buildings, 395 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, on Friday, 29th August, 1919.
Transfer books close on the evening of Thursday,
21st August.
By order of the Board,
E. J. KENNEDY, Manager.
Business Notices.
Easy to Keep
Hair Trimmed
Distance from a barber’s need not matter when
you have a good pair of hair-clippers. The hair-
clippers illustrated are made by one of the best
known firms in U.S.A., and are thoroughly reli-
able. Solidly made of steel and with extra combs
to slide over end, enabling hair to be cut iu 1 O/C
different lengths. Simple to use. Post free.
Manufacturers’ Selling Agency
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell 8 Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office—
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Biles, some
after suffering over 40 years, also a wonderful
Cure for Rheumatism.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/3 per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l/2/-. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
Ross Prism Binoculars.
Another shipment, the second since the war started, has
just arrived.
Ross’ huge works have been rushed for years past to turn
out their celebrated field-glasses for the Allied Armies.
Now they are permitted to export a few to their Agents
in different countries, and we, as their sole agents for Aus-
tralia, have received dozens.
Ross’ Prism Field-glasses are for definition, for power, for
size of objective, the BEST the world produces, and yet
not expensive.
They are British-made throughout.
FAIRFAX U ROBERTS LTD.,
Plain Figures—Cash Only.
Sole Auetralaslan Agrents for Ross Ltd.
23 and 25 Hunter Street.
53§E
IPLES
as*
that are reliable and accurate.
We carry the finest range in Australia
“A marvel at the price.”
81. Steven’s Little Scout Single-
shot Rifle, 22 calibre. ISi'n.. round steel
barrel; open rear and knife-edged front sights. o /
Weight, about 2Alb JLjL I
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/3; other States, 2/2.)
■
“Splendid for all small game."
831. Marlin Repeating Rifle, 1897 Model
24in. octagon or round barrel. 22 calibre rim tire’
magazine takes 25 short, 20 long, or 18 long rifle cartridges case
hardened receivers, fitted with sliding rear sights; jc? ’
weight silb. takedown Freight paid, 3uO
| WE REPAIR ALL KINDS of GUNS and RIFLES. I
Bio.
short
plain
over
which
“Simple and extra strong in construction
Winchester Single-shot Rifle, 1904 Model for 22
or long rim Are cartridges, 21in. heavy round steel barrel
trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight; length of rifle'
all -in.: bead front sight, with patent flloyed tip
will not tarnish; weight, about 41b ' ’
(Postage—N.S.W., 2/-; other States, 3/8.) *ts /•
“Suitable for small game and target shooting
85. Stevens’ Visible .Loading' Repeating
ltifle, 22 calibre; magazine holds 15 short. 13
long or 11 long rifle cai'tridges, mixed or separate; 20in. round barrel;
length over all, 35in. ; weight 4tlb. ; ■ slide action, blade
front and screw.ear sights Freight paid,
Owing to market fluctuations prices here quoted are subject to change
without notice.
“A perfect rabbiter’s rifle”
837. Remington Hammerless Repeating Rifle,
Model 12A 22 calibre, solid breech, side ejectol'. straight
grip, 21in. round barrel, handles 15 short, 12 long or 11 long ri% cartridges;
adjustable rear and open front sights; weight 4Jib Q£/_
Freight paid,
“Shoots icith guaranteed accuracy.”
CIS. Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906
Model 10-shot. 20in. round barrel, plain trigger,
straight grip, ladder rear sights, slide action, handles 22
short, long, or long rifle cartridges; weight, about s|Un -
95/
9
•//A
“EVER READY” PATENT
CIGARETTE MAKER
Simple and durable. Nothing to get out <
Full instructions with each one. PRICE 8d
)f order.
.POST FREE
“A suitable weapon for the boy.”
82. Stevens’ Marksman Rifle, 22 calibre, It.F.
round barrel. 20in. ? chambered for long rifle cart-
ridges, case-hardened frame, oiled walnut stock,
front and rear sights; weight, 41b
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
open
jjsacs
One of the hardest-hitting 22 cal. rifles on the market.
839. Remington Automatic Hammerless
Rifle, Model 16A, 22 calibre, take-down action, length of barrel 22
inches. Magazine holds 15 cartridges. Weight ojlb
Freight paid, 3L«7 jL\Jl m
814. Winchester Repeating Rifles, 1892
Model, 25/20-, 32-, 38-, 44-calibre, central fire,
full or half magazine, 24in. barrel; weight, about 71b.
With Round Carrel Freight paid,
With Octagon Barrel Freight paid,
816. Winchester Repeating Carbines, 1892 Model,
25/20-, 32-, 38- or 44-calibres, central fire, full or half magazines,
20in. round barrel, weight about sjlb Freight paid,
£5/15/
£6
£.5 101
Illustrated Firearms and Sports List Post Free to any address.
misTßaim's greatest
SPORTS OUTFITTERS'
72ND TOBTICCOTfISTS
City Sports Depot
39 Kind St, d/so at
Tiewcnsi/e d Brisbani


REXONA and REXONA SOAP
needed in
Every Home.
Little Dimples Hage, the five-year-old daughter of a famous Queensland teacher of violin
and piano, was born with the gift of absolute pitch. If any note is sung or struck she can
instantly name it correctly. Both this clever little girl and her mother are Rexona devotees.
Read the following letter which was written to us by Mrs. Hage in praise of the Rexona
remedies: —•
Dear Sirs, —
I think every mother
should have a pot of
Rexona on hand, for it
is simply wonderful how
often ono has to fly to
it, for one cause or
another. I have been
using Rexona myself,
also for my little girl
Dimples, and it would
honestly be a hardship
now to tr,y to get along
without it.
Whenever my little
girl hurts herself in any
way she always runs to
me for some Rexona,
and I can truthfully say
it never disappoints us,
for it always heals and
so quickly cures.
Knowing how good
Rexona was, I bought
some Rexona So a p
recently to try it also,
and I fihd it delightful.
I shall always stick by
Rexona, for it is an
article of true merit, and
my little girl says she is
a Rexona girl, and
always will be.
Sincerely yours,
(Sgd.)
(Mrs.) MARY E D. HAGE.
Tenella,
Moruben Road,
Mosman.
LITTLE DIMPLES lIAGE (from a photo.).
TRY THE- REXONA REMEDIES.
Rexona Soap and Ointment are universal favorites with everyone who values a
pure and healthy skin. The longer you neglect your skin the harder it will be to
care for it. Delay may result in eczema, ringworm, running sores or some of the
many and unpleasant forms that skin troubles so often assume. Rexona the Rapid
Healer and Rexona Soap are sure preservatives for the health and skin. Rexona
Soap ensures that clear, fresh skin and beautiful hair which go so far to give any
girl that natural charm and beauty which is her rightful heritage, apd, Rexona the
Rapid Healer will eradicate any disease which may be apparent, for it arouses the
skin to healthy activity, so that it quickly recuperates. Buy a tablet of Rexona Soap
from your Chemist or Storekeeper. It is beautifully put up and sold at 1/- per tablet,
or you can get it in boxes containing three tablets in a box, Rexona is supplied only
in triangular pots at 1/6; or in larger pots, holding four times the quantity, for 3/-
o
o
0
THE RAPID HEALER
—the trade-mark on the dials of good alarm clocks
FOUR of the best
known Westclox
alarms—Big Ben,
America, Sleep-Meter,
Baby Ben.
Each has the trade mark
Westclox on the dial. Each
made in the patented West-
clox way. Each made to
ring on time, to run on
time, to stay on time.
Each designed for looks as well
as service, and to sell at as mod-
erate a price as quality will allow.
Western Clock Co. - makers of Westclox
Big Ben 17/6, Baby Ben 17/6, America 7/6, Sleep-Meter 10/6, Boyproof Watch 7/6 -
La Salle, 111.. U. S. A.. Factories at Peru. 11l
The Prayer.
[For Tiie Bulletin.]
WHEN I am old and rheumy-eyed
and wan,
And fraught with years to make
my poor limbs tire;
When for boon friend I choose a little fire,
Being kind to age and soft to look upon,
God send I never grow so sadly old
That I shall be too wise in the world s
ways
To blunder, humanly, about its ways,
Or turn aside, by foolish dreams cajoled.
If God would hear it I should make a prayer
To keep, in spite of voice grown cracked
and shrill,
The memory of all thing's, good and ill,
That once were mine, with smooth cheeks
and dark hair.
So when young things about me sang their
songs.
Fond or delightful, sad or sweet or crude,
I should not censure with aged tongue and
shrewd
To turn the exquisite edge of joys or wrongs.
And lovers passing by the ingle-nook
Would smile serenely, knowing I should
not scold
With tales of gentler maids and love less
bold,
To rob a moment’s rapture from their look.
And if they paused to tell me that the moon
Shone glorious and round as ne’er before,
I should remember what rich gold she wore
When my first love and I sang this same
tune.
And so with age I should be filled with ruth,
And wrought so human as to be divine !
Oh, if I make a prayer, let this be mine:
“When I am old I would be loved of youth !”
N.S.W.
Nina Murdoch.
The Splendid Creature.
[For The Bulletin.]
YOUNG Mr. Patrick Calder, Ensign in
H.M. 46th Regiment of Foot; Mr.
Gregory Wicks, R.N., First Lieu-
tenant of H.M.S. Emu; and Mr. Pereival
Pilkington, Deputy-Assistant Commissary,
walked northwards towards Sydney on a
summer afternoon in 1816, along the eastern
shore of the upper end of Cockle Bay—that
arm of Port Jackson which is now Darling
Harbor.
It was only recently that Colonel Molle,
his C. 0., in conversation with the Governor,
had spoken of Mr. Calder as “hopelessly ill-
corrigible.” Of Mr. Wicks his captain had
been known to observe that he was a d —d
young blackguard ashore, but a good
seaman and a' good officer afloat. Y r ou or I
would have summed them up, without preju-
dice, as being not unprepossessing young
men, whose appearance, at any rate, did no
disgrace to the great services which they
ornamented. Their wickednesses were many ;
but Pat Calder died a lieutenant-colonel at
Sobraon, and Captain Wicks may still be
seen in the frozen flesh —if you should hap-
pen to know where to 100k —not very far
from the remains of Sir John Franklin. So
there must have been more good than evil
in both of them.
Mr. Deputy-Assistant-Commissary Pilking-
ton, an officer of the Civil Establishment in
New South Wales, now steps into the page.
The best impression that may be conveyed of
him is by saying that in dress, deportment
and manner he was eminently more suited
for the neighborhood of St. James’s, in Lon-
don, than for that of the Commissariat
Stores in Sydney. To-day, perhaps, we would
speak of him as a Nut; in the early nine-
teenth century, his sort were called Bucks.
But the Bucks were a manlier type than the
Nuts, taking everything into consideration.
For one thing, they sometimes had to fight
duels.
He had been so much of a Buck in London
that his Excellent and sagacious father, Mr.
Alderman Pilkington, of St. Mary Axe in the
City, China merchant, had procured him his
present occupation—'thanks to a friendship
with Earl Bathurst, Secretary of State for
the Colonies —and had despatched him to
New South Wales, with a threat of disin-
heritance should he return home under three
years. Not knowing that he already was
one—as is sometimes the way of the most
sagacious of parents—he had’ the design of
making a man of him. He paid him an
allowance which continuance was contingent
upon ostensible good behavior and the dili-
gent discharge of his duties.
Although Mr. Pilkington was the only ex-
quisite in Australia, lisped,, drawled and did
his best to impress the world with his imbe-
cility, he was far from being imbecile. More-
over, he was the modest possessor of what,
even in those days, was termed “a dirty
left.” It was this fact, rather than his
splendid clothes and his splendid manners,
that had recommended him to Messrs. Calder
and Wicks. It had been impressed upon
both of them. He had been a pupil of the
famous Isaac Simmons, “the Tilbury Trifle.”
So there you have these three young
gentlemen, who were just returning from an
entirely satisfactory dog-fight, wherein
Private Michael Muldoon’s bull-terrier Rovy
had defeated, almost destroyed, and utterly
put to shame the champion dog of that well-
known fancier. Black Tom Nutting, of the
notorious Good Intent Inn —not a little to
the. pecuniary advantage of the triumvirate.
Naturally they were all three in excellent
humor and had no ouarrel with the world,
the flesh or the Devil. Mr. Pilkington, his
arms linked in those of his companions, was
relating, in his tired fashion, an experience
of the previous afternoon.
“And tho,” he drawled, “I left my fellow
—a d —d wathcal, but twuthworthy—in
the boat at—what-d’ye-call-it?—oh, Bwad-
ley’th Head, and walked thwough the fowetht
with my gun, along the slioali wethtward.
Delightful viewth, an’ tho on, by George—-
but not a thing to thoot. Demme—nothing
at all, ekthept a blaekfellah in a canoe, you
know. One —ah —niutht not thoot the
blackth, I underthand—tho I thpared hith
life, and went on.”
Mr. Calder laughed. “You did right,
Brummell, me blood” —Mr. Pilkington was
naturally named after the famous friend of
the Prince Regent. “Old Solemnity would
have had you skinned alive. Well?”
“Quite tho —I thought of Macquarie. Well,
pwetheutly I came to a lovely little cove
with a thandy beach —a charming playth, I
atthure you. Motht charming. I wath look-
ing at it, a-thinkin’ how vewy nithe ’twould
be to thtwip off and have a thwim —when,
demmee, what d’ye think happened? Egad—
ye’ll not believe me! Motht incwedible
thight!”
“What was it, Brummy? A mermaid?”
asked Mr. Wicks chaffingly.
“Gad, no! Not a mermaid. A weal maid —
only I thuppothe there ain’t any in Thydney,
are there? A divine cweature! A thplendid
cweature! Thicth feet tall, if she wath an
inch—with glorwiouth wed hair all loothe.
and —oh, I thay, I know ye’ll not cwedit it!”
“A wench!” said Mr. Calder, with sudden
interest. “Over there! What the devil was
she doing over there?”
Mr. Pilkington halted, looked from one to
the other solemnly, disengaged his arms,
drew an elegant snuff-box from his waist-
coat, tapped its lid with his forefinger,
opened it, took a pinch, and put it back in
his pocket. With infinite grace he then blew
his nose upon a snowy cambric handkerchief,
replaced it, and surveyed seriously each of
his companions in turn. These impressive
rites completed, he resumed his narrative.
“The divine cweature!” he said. “Diana,
by George! She had not a vethtige of
clothing upon her lovely form. She wath
abtholutely nude. Motht interwethting, I
athure you.”
“Well, I daresay it was,” observed Mr.
Wicks. “What did you do, Brummell?”
“Withdrew, of courthe. No gentleman” -----
j.ur. Wicks laughed loudly, and the ex-
quisite looked pained.
“Oh, stow that yarn, Brummy-—tell it to
the Marines.”
“Well,” Mr. Pilkington went on. “I wath
about to withdraw —when, who d’ye think
came out of the coppithe above the beach?
Came and thtood a-lookin’ at her fwom the
beach?”
“Who?” laughed Mr. Calder. “His Ex-
cellency?”
“Captain Blake, my deaii fellow —your
worthy adjutant.”
Mr. Calder whistled and slapped his thigh
Mr. Wicks observed with awed brevity:
“D—n my eyes!”
“Yetli—your Captain William Blake, my
deah Patwiek. Him who lectureth you upon
your thinful life. Cantain Blake, a-thandin’
there, a-watohin’ tliith lovely cweature per-
formin’ her ahlutionth. Indeed, ’twath
worth watch in’!”
“Holy Michael—old Bill Blake! What
happened, Brum? What did he say to her?”
asked Mr. Calder, eagerly.
“Pwethently she cometh out of the water,
and I heard him thay, dithtinctly—‘Now, my
dear, you mutht lithten to weathon’-., She
thtopth and lookth at him —motht beautiful,
an’ thining with th’ wetneth in. th’ tliun-
light. The thayth, ‘Ye can go to Hell!’ lie
theemth to thigh in dethpair. Then he
thayth, ‘Be a good girl, my dear, an’ do
ath I athk.’ ‘You be damned !’ thayth the,
an’ goeth up in th’ busheth to where there
wath a little bark houthe, with thmoke
cornin’ from ith chimney. Your wepwobate
of an adjutant lookth after her, and callth
out, ‘l’ll come again on Tuethday evening.’
Then he walkth wound the nekth point—l
thuppothe the gay fellow had hith boat
wound there th'omewhere. I went away—
bewildered. I do athure ye both.”
“Great God! Be a good girl!" roared Mr.
Wicks, in an ecstasy of mirth. “Th’
old fraud !”
But Mr. Calder was serious. “Tuesday—
that’s to-night,” he said. “By heavens, my
bloods, we must investigate this! We’ll take
a boat, and see what Billy’s up to. Come!
We ve no time to lose. We’ll take my dinghy
.and row across. Hurry now—’tis too good
to miss.”
He started to walk rapidly up over the
hill in the direction of the Barracks. The
others followed him with equal eagerness.
* * » »
A brilliant full moon sailed high over-
head, as Mr. Calder’s dinghy crossed the
harbor. The three investigators of Captain
Blake’s morality landed near the end of the
point that runs out on the eastern side of
Little Sirius Cove. They tied the boat to
an overhanging tree, and stole cautiously
through the bush, after having assured them-
selves that no other craft was moored any-
where close at hand.
That tiny bay to the eastward of Little
Sirius is pretty much to-day as it was a
century ago. In the vears that have passed
since there has been a house of some sort
on the crest of the point that divides the
inlets, hut its only traces are a kind of pine
tree and some remain's of foundations in the
grass. The pretty cove is scarcely 50 yards
deep, and the strip of white sand at its head
hardly as long. Any fine night, when the
moon is full, you may set the scene for your-
self that was enacted there on that bright
February evening in 1816.
With infinite caution they crossed the
ridge and lowered themselves down through
the shrubs and vines upon its further side,
until they were hidden behind the tumbled
rocks at the end of the beach. They had been
there hardly 10 minutes when a light skiff,
a solitary dark figure in it. slid round
the end of the point, and grounded gently on
the sand in the centre of the beach. Up in
the scrub behind they saw the dim glow of
a fire, and there was an aromatic scent of
burning eucalyptus in the still air. Across
the moonlit waters of the harbor the long
ridge of the south shore stretched from west
to east below the stars, with no single pin-
point of light to relieve its obscurity.
Now, for the credit of the three young
gentlemen, it must be stated that they
(Continued on next page.)


Does your back ache constantly? Do you feel dull,
miserable and tired all the time? Do you wonder whv
j j
ordinary daily duties wear you out? Do you have “blue”
j j * j j
davs and restless nights?
J o
Kidney Sickness silently plays out the strongest person.
A dull, clraggy ache in the small ot the back will tell on the
healthiest man or woman. And if the kidneys fail in their task
of filtering uric-acid poisons from the blood, it leads to painful
attacks of neuralgia, rheumatism, sciatica, gravel, headaches —-
to worrying attacks of dizziness, nervousness, heart palpitation,
scanty, painful and too frequent urination.
Don’t neglect weak kidneys. There is danger of run-
n i n g gradually into dropsy or incurable kidney disease. At
the first sign of backache or disorders of the urine, use Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills. A remedy that has cured your
neighbor will cure you.
“ Every Picture
Tells a Story
Tl
'£*_# j
ill 111/HIM
00
\
Two Sydney People Cured to Stay Cured.
Mrs. J. Welsh, 14 Alfred Street, North Sydney, says:—“For about
two years, off and on, I suffered with my kidneys, and, as a consequence, my
health was far from good. My back used to ache fearfully, the pain
being often so severe that I could not sleep or move quickly without
suffering agony. Besides backache I felt constantly tired, and my legs
and ankles swelled considerably. So much for my health troubles,; now
for the medicine that cured me. After trying different x’emedies without
deriving any benefit, a friend advised me to take a course of Doan's Back-
ache Kidney Pills, and I am very thankful that I acted on the advice, for
they cured me completely. That was nine months ago, and I have had no
return of backache and kidney trouble since, so my cure has been well
tested.”
Mr. A. Morris. Royal Oak Hotel. Ross Street, Parramatta, says:—
‘‘For about eighteen months I suffered a lot from kidney complaint. I had
sharp, shooting pains in my back, and the kidney secretions contained
sediment. I used so many remedies without success that I despaired of
ever getting well again. However, a friend told me to try Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills, saying they had cured him. I got some at once, and a
short course fixed me up completely. It is over two years since I took
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and as I have been quite well all that
time, I feel safe in saying that my cure is a permanent one. I always
tell my friends what a splendid remedy Doan’s Pills is, and advise its
use whenever opportunity offers.”
Mr. Morris confirms the above eight years later: —“It is now ten years
since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me of kidney trouble, and I
am still well.”
DOAN'S
Backache
Kidney
PI LLS.
Price 2/9 per bottle, at
all Chemists and Stores,
or post free from Foster-
McClellan Co., 76 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
dogged the footsteps of the Adjutant of the
-Kith in no spirit of animosity or with any
desire to score off a superior. It would have
been hard to find in all the settlement a
more popular officer than good Bill Blake,
An adjutant is often regarded re
as the enemy of all the world, as an unquiet
spirit who will spare no man’s repose, as
a disturber of the peace, as an infernal
nuisance, as one whom it is as legitimate
as difficult to circumvent. But it was not
so in the 46th. Its adjutant was the friend
,of the regiment, from its not too popular
G.O. down to fche youngest drummer. Many
a good man’s back had remained unscarred,
not a few subalterns had escaped being
“broke,” through his forbearance and his
active good offices. If any man was generally
loved and respected in the 46th it was
Captain William Blake.
It is regrettable to have to come to a
conclusion that the sole motive prompting
these disreputable young men to spy upon
the private affairs of one whom each of them
counted as a friend was that of discovering
him in a mortal weakness of the sort that
was after their own hearts. The suspicion
that lie, the happily and respect'ably■•married
model of the domestic virtues, was “keeping
a wchnan” in the scrub over on the North
Shore was delightful to them. The realisa-
tion of its truth would he exquisite. Nothing
atones to us more for our own shortcomings
than the shortcomings of those we love. They
alone make our own misdemeanors tolerable,
As the tall figure stood up in the boat and
stepped out upon the sands. Mr. Wicks dug
Mr. Calder in the ribs, and Mr. Pilkington
kicked Mr. Wicks in the shin.
“It’s Bill Blake!” whispered Mr. Wicks.
“Tbe old dog!” commented Mr. Calder.
“ T bc .thentimental adjutant!” chuckled
* V T l lkmgton.
He was m undress uniform and a peaked
forage-cap, and when he took the latter off
c.'cct- squarp-shouMpred figure sharply
silhouetted against the gleaming white sands
of the beach. Up in the bush of the dark
hillside a mopoke called. Faintly a little
two-inch surf broke and snlnshed noon the
S 1 1 a s P Jastu <1 u P° n tac
A moment or two he stood, and then he
cal ed, clearly but not loudly: “Mary Jane!
lan thy . that now—that thplend-d
Mawey Jane!’ wins-
pered Mr Pilkington, a little disgustedly.
Bood Bad.
Blown .out of the bushes beside the tiny
rivqlet that trickles into the sands came a
tall woman—almost a giantess—with un-
bound hair tpmbling about the bodice of the
coarse gown that scarcely hid the athletic
symmetry of her body. Captain Blake, his
cap in his hand, advanced to meet her. Both
of them halted when they were a couple
of yards apart.
“Good evening, Mary Jane,” said Blake.
“Evenin’, zur,” said the tall woman, in
th e accents of Devonshire.
Why the devil don’t he grab her?”
grunted Mr. Wicks.
“Have you considered my proposition.
Mary Jane? Will you do as I wish?”
“Lord, Patwick —’tith a cold fish, thith
adjutant of yourth!” commented Mr. Pil-
kington.
“Keep quiet! Listen !” growled Mr. Calder.
“Bide a moment, zur,” said the woman.
“Be list’ners cloase-to. Wait till I go fetch
’un. I zeed ’un coom. ’Tis our own business
thickee. Bide a moment.”
With an incredible swiftness she strode
across the sands towards the detached frag-
ment of sandstone behind which the
moralists crouched. Before they realised it
she was amongst them, and had two of them
—Mr. Calder and Mr. Pilkington—by the
collars of their jackets in a vyce-like grip.
With the strength of a powerful man she
hauled them from their knees to their feet,
and proceeded to drag them out on to the
moonlit beach. Both her victims w-ere too
astounded to resist. She jerked and shoved
them across the wet sand, ploughing an
untidy track, to where the equally astounded
Captain Blake stood speechless and be-
wildered. When they were beside the adju-
tant she crashed them together so that then-
heads knocked and their hats fell off, and
then flung them from her with such violence
that each of them sprawled upon hands and
knees. Then she ran back for their com-
panion ; but the scared mariner had taken
to flight, and was scrambling up the hill-
side through the scrub and vines. She
walked back to . the paralysed group in the
middle of the beach, her big arms folded
across her deep and heaving bosom.
As the two discomfited young gentlemen
scrambled sheepishly to their feet, the adju-
tant recognised them and found his speech.
“(’aider—by Heaven! And—is it Mr.
Pttki n £t° n -?” he exclaimed in wonderment.
What the devil are you doing here? What
does it mean?”
Neither of them could answer, but the
amazon answered for them. Her quick
woman’s insight had solved the situation in
a flash.
“I’ll tell ’ee, zur. For to spy on you an’
me, y’r honor. ’Tes a batin’ they’ve earned
—an’ ’tes a batin’ tliey’m a-goin’ for to have.
I ll larn ’em!”
She stooped, and picked up a stick of
driftwood from the beach ; but Blake raised
his hand to stay her. Never had Mr. Calder
or Mr. Pilkington realised before the mean-
ing of abject fear. This tremendous force
was outside all their conception of the
dangers of existence.
Captain Blake stared at them for a little
while. Then suddenly he threw back his
head and laughed. Ilis cap dropped from
his hand. He bent double and writhed with
mirth. The loud echo of his laughter seemed
to rumble back to them from the hill above.
The two youths stood sheepishly, hatless
and with sand on their knees. Then at last
Blake found his tongue.
“ ’Tis all right, Mary Jane. I know them
both —they mean no harm. So ye thought
ye were upon my track in an assignation, did
ye, Calder—you young dog? Took me for
one of your own kidney, hey? Well, well!
Now how did you do it? Answer me —oi-
l’ll be serious, and ye know what that means.
Come —speak up.”
Falteringly, Mr. Pilkington came to the
rescue of the embarrassed ensign.
“If you pleathe, Mither Blake, I wath
thootin’ round here yethterday and —and
I thaw thith lady in thwimmin’, and you
a-lookin’ on—and tho I thought—well,
tliir, I couldn’t help thinkin’ ”
“I see. You thought the worst. Well. I’ll
tell you. what it means—for the sake of Mrs.
Proctor’s reputation, if not my own. Calder,
you knew that Sergeant Proctor had de-
serted? lie’s in your company.”
With a look of wonder, and a fearful
glance at the strong woman, Mr. Calder
replied.
“Yes, I knew he had gone, sir. But he’s
not in the defaulters’ book. He’s not offici-
ally a deserter yet.”
“I know that. I saw to it myself—with
the sergeant-major. He’s too good a man
for the regiment to lose; he’s too good a man
for the halberds; he’s too good a man for
(gaol. So I got on his trail, and traced
him to this place, where he had his wife —
off the strength of course—and yesterday
she actually took to the water, as naked as
Mr. Pilkington saw her, so as to decoy me
away, whilst the sergeant hid in the bush.
And I told her I’d come to-night to try and
persuade him back before ’tis too late. She
doesn’t approve of the army—but she doesn’t
realise what she’s persuaded her man to do.
But ye’ll let him come back with me, won’t
ye. Mrs. Proctor?”
The woman looked at Blake for a
moment, and then nodded. “Ess—-I’ll laive
’un to ’ee. zur. Ye be a gentleman. As for
these two. I gives un whiles I counts ten for
to be off thickee baich. I’ll call Tom so
soon’s things—be gone, zur. Now
then off wi’ ye! One, two, three, fower.”
To the accompaniment of howls of laughter
from the adjutant, Messrs. Calder and Pilk-
ington took to their heels. As they tumbled
down the other side of the point, to where
Mr. Wicks awaited them in the boat, Mr.
Pilkington gasped,
“Jove—Patwick! Therth no doubt about
her. A thplendid eweature. Magnifithent!”
•T. H. M. Abbott.
Courtrai.
[Fob The Bulletin.]
IN front of the railway station there
was a poorish statue of a remarkable
man, one Jean Palfyn, w 7 ho invented the
forceps. I suppose that is remarkable; but
nobody in Courtrai seemed to think much of
it. They were very busy with linen, twine,
napery and cotton fabrics. They had no
time for mere forceps.
Courtrai stands at the end of the flat
and at the beginning of the undulating Flan-
tiers. There Were deep purple shadows
under the Grandes Halles (which was really
the Cloth Guild), finished as a building in
1550—and finished otherwise in 1917.
Chestnut and linden trees made a good shale
in the squares and streets. Through the
town the poets’ golden river Lys -wandered
aimlessly from lush green meadows past the
ruins'of old walls; past the Norman watch-
towers of Broel, with candle-extinguisher
hats; past the ivy-hung Beffroi that was lost
in climbing flowers, and so to the canal
which runs to the Scheldt. In 1247 more
than 200,000 lived under the warm, red roofs
of the placid houses, but when the town sur-
rendered to the Spanish in 1584 only 5000
answered the roll; the plague had buried the
rest. So the Spaniards put 2500 to death,
to make a good job of it.
It took the citizens some time to learn the
surrendering trick. In 1302 cohorts of
French knights—the very flower, the finished
article in knighthood—came down with
shields and banners and lances on the rich
town, and a handful of burghers, a scratch
team, collected in a hurry, went out to meet
them. The Battle of the Spurs was fought
under the walls; and what was left of the
flower, the very last word in French knights,
fled incontinently. On the battlefield 700
golden spurs were picked up and hung in the
cathedral by the heavy, phlegmatic scratch
team in thanksgiving. The artistic aud
successfully concluded democratic effort
annoyed Charles VI., and in 1382 he burned
Courtrai to the ground for it; which was
a scurvy reward. But the linen and twine
business went on comfortably in the large,
capable Fleming hands, until the plague
came. That beat them for a time.
In Notre Dame there were some wooden
things covered with gold-leaf and hopelessly
camouflaged as spurs. Fine colored win-
dows made fine colored pictures on the floor —
better than those on the walls for the most
part, with the exception of a Van Dyck,
the Erection of the Cross, very vivid and
imaginatively tragic. It was stolen some
years ago; months after the hue and cry
had died down the picture was found in a
field not far from the church, unaltered by
the sun and rain. The devout saw miracles
and divine interventions and so forth in its
untouched state; more probably the safe-
guard w4s the good oils and canvas Van
Dyck had used.
In Courtrai was one of the (I think)
three remaining litquinagea in Belgium—a
quiet, safe place of linden trees and little
white cottages, where the “reduced ladies of
spotless reputation” (see Rules of Admis-
sion) went easily and comfortably down to
the last long safety. An. everlasting twilight
of passive but firm belief; a little bell to
ring for Matins, and Mass and Vespers;
then the quiet night; and the little bell again
for Matins in the dawn. I am not sure
that it wasn’t the best and sanest place in
Courtrai.
Hilary Lofting.


«
4-i
WESTIN GH 0 USE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
SH? e SSja ~d Agants—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office-—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Offiee-98 Queen Street, Melbourne.
WALES.
ia
o
o
Clydesdale
Automatic
Control is
Clydesdale
Itself.
CLYDESDALE
Automatic Con-
== troL exclusively
Clydesdale construc-
tion, makes for greater power, more
even pulling, longer life for the
motor and all moving parts. Other
makers would gladly use this
control if it were available for
general use. It is one of the many
reasons for haulage by Clydesdale.
MS. I). VAN BRU3T, Factory Representative, Jt-.u.
Box 2093, Sydney, AIISTKAMA.
New South Wales Distributors: HARDY-
JOHNSTON MOTOR CO., 34-56 Wentworth
Avenue, SYDNEY.
New Zealand Distributors: INGEIS BROS AND
CO. MD„ Harris Street, WELLINGTON.
T. E. SHIED & CO., Stafford Street, DUNEDIN.
THE CLYDE CARS COMPANY,
44 Whitehall Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Cable Address—CROMOTOR.
Colds
Don’t let a cold run its course—check it in
its first stages. Rub chest, throat or
back with “Vaseline” Capsicum, the clean
counter-irritant. Better than a mustard
plaster—easier to apply—wori’t blister the
skin. Also relieves gout pains, muscle
strains and lumbago. In handy tin tubes.
Recommended by doctors everywhere. For
sale at chemists and general stores.
Other “Vaseline” Products
“VASELINE” OXIDE OF ZINC OINT-
MENT—for eczema, sores, etc.
“VASELINE” AN ALGIC-for toothache,
neuralgia, rheumatism.
CHESEBROUGH MANUFACTURING CO.
(Consolidated)
New York London Montreal
Vaseline
Trade Mark
Capsicum
Petroleum Jelly -
asei
ipsic
STROLEU*
**>»<
WttumAHii
*»»•»*<
I »
I tIH lhjH»****i
hllllltptllHl
!pun hi'»l»n*
t »t (mhpf'Hi
t Vf UlJtflHlMt
JrHi-
selm>ughs
JEW YORK A
MAO* W P** l
BE PERSUADED
to try Beecham's Pills l All who have had experience of this preparation
unhesitatingly endorse the view long ago expressed that “ Beeeham’s
Pills are Worth a Guinea a Box”. This is what people say who have
taken them—who have proved their wonderful value for themselves.
Their opinion should go far to persuade you to try Beeeham’s Pills also.
They have cured others and will cure you. They have brought the
desired relief in multitudes of cases —is it not highly probable that they
will do the same for you? Beecham’s Pills grew into fame years ago as
a digestive medici le of the greatest value. They have maintained their
high reputation through the passing years, and, at the present time, they
are relieving, and curing vast numbers of people who suffer from
dyspeptic troubles all over the world. If you happen to be one of those
who need a tonic, purifying and cleansing medicine be persuaded
TO TRY
BEEGHM’S PILLS.
Prepared only by THOMAS BEECHAM, St Helens, England
Sold in boxes, labelled price 10td (36 pills), 1/1 (56 pills') &/2/9 (168 pills).
ARE YOU
PTU RE D
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses ? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW: it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafiing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft lubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE. COMFORT and SECURITY
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is Suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
LIVER-ISMS
The liver is the regulator of health If the
liver is active and well, good health and happi-
ness prevail; but once you allow ytHir liver to
get torpid and sluggish, life be-
comes a misery. Dyspepsia,
Indigestion, Biliousness
Constipation, Headaches
and Melancholy assail
you, resulting in lackof
energy, loss of mem-
ory and ill-health ;
but remember
Carter’s Little
Liver Pill-s touch
the liver and cure
CARTERS
ITTtt
IVER
PILLS
all liver ills. Try -them to-day and see how
much better you will be to-morrow. They
ever fail. Children like them.
Small Pill—Small Dose—Small Price.
GENUINE must
bear signature
Pipe-Screwing
r\STER
X.J Matchless Tackle
Easier pipe-screwing than you ever thought possible—that’s what
“Matchless” Screwing Tackle gives you. Newly designed, it has
easy-cutting features never before offered you, which cannot be
obtained in any other tool.
You don’t know what it means to screw pipe easily unless you have
used Oster “Matchless” Screwing Tackle. A fair trial will convince
you.
Get a “Matchless” from your nearest dealer.
Made in Four Sizes
to Screw Pipes from
V? in. to 4in.
Carried in Stock,
with extra parts,
b y ironmongers,
machinery and
hardware and
plumbing supply
houses.
The Oster Manufacturing Co.,
Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.
Australasian Representative—
CHARLES WRIGHT, Turner Chambers, 16 Hunter St., Sydney
[4
dnought” Wire Strain
SiTiTTE^EwrWlKfl
(Patented)
N *
'
each
PostJree
With Full Particulars
and Illustrated Circular.
The simplicity, lightness and excellence of the
Dreadnought is fully maintained.
£ OQ&131A/ HJLHOS ‘pnoy Aqunuuoy
AuiaamoQ 6uunj.ovin uv//u uvy±


MANCROVIfg*
ipmm
The Belting That Wins
all along the power line. That is why it is
in great demand for power plants where effici-
ency is the rule. Strong, durable and flexible,
it keeps a close acquaintance with the pulleys
and eliminates waste. Prove it on your
power plants. "
Mangrovite Belting Ltd.
(Charles Ludowici, Managing Director),
w«y* rkS ! reet ’ WynyardS{ » uare * Sydney, N.S.W.
Western Australia: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Perth
s th Australia: John Reid & Sons Ltd., Adelaide
SPRING STEEL THAT
WILL COIL COLD
and supply you with the strength and resiliency you need for
any job—such qualities are assured if you use our
High Quality Spring Steel Wire
for all coil springs. We can supply from stock, in the following
gauges—4, 7,8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 10.
Desk “A” will quote for any quantity on request.
The Eagle & Globe Steel Co. Ltd.
Makers of Ultra Capital High-Speed Steel,
379-381 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
1
%
ON
J
Did yya ever figure or have any way ef figuring
what belt slippage costs you?
The enormous losses —somtimes 3% to s%—suffered
by industrial plants due to slippage on belts that
do not grip tight enough can, and in many cases
are, being materially lessened by the use of
Dick’s Balata Belting
!'■ adheres close to the surface and slips less than
any other belting—leather or composition.
Write to-day for facts.
James Hardie &t Co. Ltd.
Wynyard and York Streets, SYDNEY.
581-3 Little Collins Street, M“\~rJ.7NE.
30 Currie Street, A'lT.'V, ,
Paul & Gray Ltd., N . * . .'r. *.
Queensland Agents Queensland Macninery Co.,
Albert Street, BRISBANE.
BRITISH-MADE MAGNETOS
are Magnificent Examples o/ Scientific Engineering at its Best
are Interchangeable. In the past four years they have proved that they are MORE
EFPICIENT and RELIABLE THAN ANY MAGNETOS which have been produced at ANY TIME OR ANYWHERE.
We have on view the Latest Model Four and Single-Cylinder Types, made by The Thomson, Bennett Co.
hesitation in saying that as SPARK PRODUCERS they are in a class by themselves, and for BEAUTY OF WORK-
eqwpped high-tension ignition ll ® lgh - class Machines cim uow be b0,, 8 ht ’ EVEBE CAR should be
• Prices: 4-Cylinder, £24; Single-Cylinder, £7/10/-
Inspection or Correspondence
ROBERT C. SWAN CO. LTD.
The House for Motor Engineers’ Supplies * 304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
“STAR” Portable Lampless Oil Engines.
These Big-powered Engines are now becoming immensely popular for general Farm and Station work, such as
client UttmS ’ bhearmg ’ Chaffcutting, Pumping, etc., and each Engine supplied by us means another well-satisfied
£l76 Including
8-b.h.p £205 Expert
0-b.h.p £235 to start.
We can arrange easy Terms, and guarantee satisfaction in every instance.
DALGETY (& CO. LTD.. Miller’s Point. SYDNEY.
flgente for TANCVEB, CLAYTON & BHUTTLEWORTH, WOLSELEY Shearing Machines, TBIUMPH Oil Engines, CAtiE Milking Machines, etc.
THE
Sheep Shearing
Machines.
Most practical in use.
t. NSf
jfljj/nimi
«JB!
eg
iSrlB
wi, reaBon that , the supremacy of the Wolseley has never been assailed—is because it is
nnut on a correct, unfailing basis.
New. practical improvements are continually being adopted, and the pastoralist has always
much to gain by installing: the Wolseley. Inquire from the nearest branch.
DALGETY (82. CO. LTD., Australasian Agents : All Branches.
I
THE
E-POW
The simplicity, facility for easy transport, and relative cheapness of these little Hoists
commend them to the Miner i squiring a small, efficient Winding Plant. Designed principally
for Mining purposes, it will raise a bucket with 500-7001 b. sixty to seventy feet per minute.
The Hoisting Drum is absolutely under the control of the man at the shaft, and can be thrown
m out of gear, and he can land or lower the bucket on the brake as safely and conveniently
as by a steam-power hoist. An automatic safety device is attached to the end of the drum to
prevent accident, the dog always being in gear when the bucket is being raised.
Drum carries 500 feet or more of % Steel Wire Rope.
Total Shipping weight is 12001 b., but no one piece weighs over 2501 b.
If you are interested, allow us to send you full descriptive Circular, with Prices.
MAKERS:
PARKE & LACY COMPANY LIMITED,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants. 60 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
Be Prepared for the Spring Invasion of Flies and Disease!
“Go Over the Top” with an immediate installation of one of the
"GUTHRIDGE" Garbage Destructors
and ensure the Daily Destruction of Garbage, Sweepings, Rags, Garden Refuse
and all other Waste flatter. You will thus
Render Your Home Safe, Sanitary and Pleasant.
These Patented Machines, made in 5 sizes, work on a principle which reduces to the minimum all smoke, smell or fuel
expense.
Prices from 50/-
our City Office, where our engineers will demonstrate them - to yon.
Booklet—with prices—post free on request.
(e)
U)
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.,
•Sole Manufacturers and
Patentees,
350 George Street, Sydney.
