

DEWAR’S —The Spirit of Age and Wisdom
R. <3r. WATKIZVS «S£ CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE
MONEY
ON EASY
:ON ALL CLASSES OF SECURITY
WITHOUT POSSESSION. <
NSW-MONT de FIETE -
D & I C9T LIMITED.
74 Casllereagh St.74.Sydney
CAPITAL 31200,000 ‘Phone City 5325
flra/jcAej «?/■- 29 King St.. Newcastle, N*SW- 71517 Swanston St.
40 Adelaide st.,Brisbane.Q. 197 A Castlereagh 5tJ59 George St. West, Sydney.
Joseph IV Mill, Acting General tlanat^en
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not be laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete D. and I. Co. Ltd.”
if
CHROMOL
$9
(Trade Mark)
The Super Driving Self.
The largest mining and smelt-
ing plants use “Chromol,” because
of its proven superiority over all
other Belting.
Sole Makers:
J. C.LudowiciSSonLtd.
Pioneer Leather Belting Works,
117 York Street, Sydney
Pioneers and Leaders since 1858.
B
THE
P
m
Of.
U
0,0.
m.
m
St
made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HANSEN’S
Ti
CPU
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
AMIWUD—THE
SUPERIOR PANELLING.
Amiwud, besides being the most artistic panelling for your home, is moth-
and vermin-proof, does not chip or crumble, and withstands vibration.
You should certainly obtain samples and the illustrated Amiwud booklet.
Post free.
The Paraffine Companies Inc. (F, M. Prince, Australasian Manager), Challis House,
Sydney. ~V
w
D
n
A new and revised edition of the
“Referee” is now available,
and will be sent post free on
application to
JOHN LYSAGHT (Australia) LIMITED
8 Spring Street, SYDNEY,
S\ve® is
the recognised standard
of quality throughout
the Commonwealth.
BL WHISKY (Bulloch Lade)
ORME, KEIGWIN (Kb CO. LTD., SYDNEY Sole Agents.
Walls and Ceilings are what you make them! Why not use
GYPSBOARD
Lath-and-plaster walls and ceilings are simply a stepping-stone to continuous expense for repairs. Why not build for
lifelong durability by using Gypsboard? Why not have attractive panelled walls and beamed ceilings of Monolithic Solidity?
Your rooms will be hygienic, rot- and insect-proof, fire-retarding, and free from repair troubles for all time. Don’t
accept substitutes for Gypsboard—every sheet is branded. Ask for Sample and Booklet (post free) from the manufac-
turers. Get our prices for Asbestos Cement Sheets, Shingles and Slates, Asbestos Corrugated Sheets, Cement Cisterns
Laundry Tubs, 3-ply Woods, Congo Roofing. (B 403
Noyes Bros. (Sydney) Ltd., 115 Clarence Street, Sydney.
TOOTH PASTE
Used Every Day
Prevents Decay*
The Bulletin
Vol. 40.—N0. 2077.
Thursday, December 4, 1919.
P3RICE 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


When You Make a Gift
Give a Booh.
Here are a Few Suggestions:
FOR A CHILD: Give your kiddie a copy of “Mia Mia Mites,” by Muriel
Pornett. It is just' the book a child would choose for itself. The adventures
of two quaint, fascinating little aboriginals described and pictured in color on
rough, tough paper. Size 74 x 10 inches. Price 2/6 (Id.).
FOR A WOMAN: “Mee-ow!” by E. M. Lesslie Smart, society satire, 2/- (Id.).
“The Laughing Girl,” by Robert Chambers. A fascinating novel, 5/- (4d.).
“Scandal,” by Cosmo Hamilton. A little daring, but cleverly written, 4/6
(4d.). “The Social Rubaiyat of a Bud. A clever imitation of Omar
Khayyam in mddern society, 3/- (2d.).
FOR A MAN: “The Australians: Their 1918 Campaign,” by F. N. Cutlack.
The first book on the campaign. Maps. 10/6 (4d.). “The Golden Bough and
the Black Stone.” Two exciting spy stories, by G. Gibbs, each 5/- (4a.).
“The Story of a Battalion,” by W. Devine. A first-class book. Illustrated,
6/- .(2d.). “Shavings,” by J. Lincoln. Full of chuckles, 5/- (4d.).
“Khaki and Cassock,” by Rev. Iv. T. Henderson. A chaplain’s memories,
4/6 (2d.).
MELVILLE 8 MULLEN PTY. LTD.,
” 262-264 Collins Street, Melbourne.
. “ Other things being equal—
Preference to Returned Soldiers.”'
In your case are the “other things” equal—have you the training to
get and hold a good paying position? Remember, it is the TRAINED
man who succeeds.
The Central Correspondence College is offering
RETURNED SOLDIERS
Instruction Free of Cost
—By Correspondence'—-
If you want to improve your position, or if you cannot take up your
former work.
Instruction in Advertising, Accountancy, Bookkeeping, Salesmanship,
Shorthand, etc. Any subject you desire. If you want sound training
write to the Principal and explain what you require.
Send this advertisement.
THE CENTRAL CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
165 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Glide smoothly, never grate.
Artists, Draughtsmen, Engineers,
Architects, Drawing Students, Busi-
ness Men —these are just a few of the
classes who buy VENUS Pencils, regu-
larly^
are not a luxury, they are a
necessity for the best work.
S)
Made in 17 degrees, 6B to
9H, and 3 styles of Oopying.
OF ALL STATIONERS AND ARTTSTS’-
MATERIAL DEALERS THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND.
BOOK CATALOGUES
Post Free
For the Asking.
A 32-PAGE Catalogue of Books, suit-
able for Christmas Gifts for young
and old, and including a list of all the
Latest Fiction and General Literature.
An 8-PAGE Catalogue of Prize Books
for Boys and Girls. Especially valuable to
School Teachers.
Write at Once.
Melville $ Muikn Pty. Ltd.
262-264 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Australian
Head Office:
87 Pitt St, Sydney
Established
1849.
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire-
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year-
Although over £750,000 was paid dur-
ing 1918 in War Claims alone, the
Cash Bonus Distributed for 1918
exceeded.. .. .. .. .. £1,000,000-
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. .. £1,700,000'
Accumulated Funds exceed .. ~£39,000,000
Annual Income over .. .. .. £5,500,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H, W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
a?- <-
THAT
FLY!
■y-r.X
Sr.-:
9JSBb>
*WI
Sold everywhere in tins, 9d,
l. *
m
The “Mustdie” Blower is recommended to be
used, for it is not only economical, but the
powder is distributed more effectively, and we
want you to get .the best results out of every
ounce of the powder.
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
IS
MUSTDIE
>»
,LS THAT
FLY!
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY,
esale Agents, Melbourne.
[&
The Red Page
"Poetry Review” Poets and an
Australian
According to the prefatory note The
Malory Verse Book (Erskine Macdonald,
London) “may he accepted as thoroughly
representative of the finest, most expressive,
contemporary English verse.” This modest
claim by Editha Jenkinson, the compiler of
the collection, would seem ’ to indicate that
the making of anthologies is an exact
science; but if it is even moderately true
the statement is a trifle tragic. Several
English anthologies have been published of
recent years; and whatever faults might be
found with the general selection, each was
a rich mine of poetry with a good deal
of dross here and there among the true gold.
The Malory Verse Book is different. Page
after page it supplies the same kind of
verse,' thin in idea and rather slipshod in
execution. Most of it is pleasing, but very
little holds the attention, and there is some
stuff in the volume utterly unworthy of a
place- in any publication. Of verse-writers
of Australian fame Will H. Ogilvie is repre-
sented—and badly represented—by “The
Garden of the Night.” Within the last four
years he has written for this paper verses
not only incomparably better than the set
selected, but incomparably better than three-
fourths of the alleged poetry in the whole
collection. Take a few stanzas from various
writers whose work gets a place. This is
from Roland Tliirlmere :
Where morning clouds have fallen on the boughs,.
A humble bee amidst the living light,
His Heaven-appointed ministry avows—■
With lesser priests and many an acolyte—
As he the bloom endows
With hope of life in a fair nuptial rite.
And here is the sestet of a sonnet by M. E.
Graham: —•
Yet dimly I divine, 0- captured soul,
The thousand phantom threads that tie thy hands
And clog thy steps and baulk thee of thy goal;
For Love and Pity weave with myriad strands
A cobweb fine yet potent to control
The strength that had defied all harsher bands.
Next is Julian Grenfell’s opening “To a
Black Greyhound” :—•
Shining black in the shining light,
Inky black in the golden sun,
Graceful as the swallow’s flight,
Light as swallow, winged one,
Swift as driven hurricane—
Double-sinewed stretch and spring,
Muffled thud of flying feet,
See the black dog galloping,
Hear his wild foot-beat.
Or take Alfred Dodd in the conclusion of
“The Lion Heart” :
The bars of fate, the shade of death
. Can rob nor bar me of my goal;
Uncurbed I rule o’er mind and breath
The lonely monarch of my soul.
Not bad verse any of this, yet not very good
or striking verse; and its thinness would
only be accentuated by longer extracts.
Almost certainly it may be said that The
Malory Verse Book is not what it claims
to be. A few writers in England are doing
much better work; but perhaps they are
not of the group of verse-makers who circle
about the Poetry Review. One thing can
be said with confidence. A really good selec-
tion of the Australian verse for any six
months of the past five years would make a
far finer volume of poetry than this.
Turning home to Australia, it is refresh-
ing to come upon a volume like Australian
Light Horse Ballads and Rhymes, by Trooper
Gerardy (H. 11. Champion, Melbourne), for
here is the real thing which the authors
represented in “The Malory Verse Book”
miss. Gerardy is not remarkable for the
perfection of his line, for the sweetness of
his song nor for technique; yet the reader
feels that as a craftsman, he is about the
equal of the English group, and as a singer
capable of taking deeper and higher notes.
The chief point about him, however, is his
vitality. This man is alive’and has really
something to say; the others are groping
among the feebleness to find some slight
thing that lias not been said quite in the
same way. Hear Gerardy :
We made it a brawl of blood and sweat,
Through a ghastly hour of dread,
And the stormer’s steel with steel was met
Till the hedge was clogged with dead ;
But a frenzy born in the storm of Hell
Can seldom defeated be —
We gained the house and the guarded well,
And we fought from tree to tree.
’Twas man to man in the garden then,
And never tvere Turkish blades
More wickedly held by Turkish men
Through the stormy, dead decades.
That is rough verse on a rough subject; it
contains one line which could not well be
worse—“ Can seldom defeated be” —but
there is force and vigor and honesty
about it. And Gerardy has a sense of beauty
too. In “The Happy Exile,” the song of
the gum-tree in a strange land rejoicing at
the visit of the Australians, he has fine feel-
ing for the trees in the evening air:—
Some trees * were hidden by hedges tall, and some
leaned over the winding track.
The sell-wind muttered till evenfali, and the shiver-
ing tree-tops answered back.
The tapering cypress stems were bent, and feathery
palms swayed to and fro,
And portly and tall and well content a gum-tree
sang in the afterglow.
Tn another mood are the opening lines of
“The Woman of Lebanon” :
Up terraced hills against the breeze,
Joy lured me forth to ride.
The birds sang matchless rhapsodies,
The red roofs shimmered through the trees
That tossed their plufnes with pride.
The highway, white and wide and hard,
Gave echo to my tread.
No hostile-seemipg shadow marred
The grassy* uplands, daisy starred,
Where nodding poppies bled.
"Gerardy is well worth while. He always
paints a clear picture ,and often tells a good
story; and all through there is a simple sin-
cerity about him, which, while he does not
aim very high, makes his work memorable.
The verse has an occasional bad rhyme, due
to faulty pronunciation ; and a heavyweight
prose word often spoils a good line. But
Gerardy may do much better; the English
group in “The Malory Verse Book” threatens
to ylo much worse.
The Romance of Words
There are people talking all sorts of lofty
things about rhythm and rhyme. Let me
speak of words used in olden homely appli-
cation to children.
I remember we were all “young varmints”
when I was little-—except when it was “I'll
give you something, my young skirmisher!”
How much history is held in that last word !
The nicest woman- I ever knew had one
failing. She thought “varmint” beneath
her, and always said “vermin.” It was a
blot on an every-otherwise delightful charac-
ter. For me almost the happiest day of
my life was one in which I found a dic-
tionary that gave, “varmint” an honored
place. Both “varmint” and “skirmisher,” I
take it, are Irish; for when it wasn’t the
Highland it was the Irish form of English I
first heard. North of Ireland chiefly.
“Varmint” was a term of toleration; it
only meant a verbal reproof. But “skir-
misher” went deeper. Maybe Cromwellian
times knew “skirmishers,” and later periods
saw them —hunters of hunted men,* 1 repro-
bated and hated.
“Another word of that day was “dinge.”
“You mean dented!” said a superior one.
“I mean dinged!” I replied. But, alas! I
found only one dictionary that contained it.
And now I can't remember whose it was.
And another epithet was “radical.” ‘’You
young radical!” Fancy calling a child “You
young woman’s national leaguer,” or “You
young 0.8.U.-er.” Alas for the day that is
fo P°°r! Yet to-day has given us “sleuth.”
‘ Sleuth ’ —say it how you will, it is a key
of magic.
Ragamuffin” walks soberly down the
ages; but “reprobate” arid “pirate” are gone,
or going. The former died with the decay
of Church power. The “pirate” died of an
extended Customs tax. There were other
words like “scrouch,” or “scrunge,” and
'grouts” (“‘Grouts’? Oh! you mean
‘grounds’!”), and “gram,” and* “grume”;
not all Irish, for some of them came from an
old lady who said “nesteses” and “Rhuth,”
and “rhoom.”. And there are others that I
forget, but which, when I see them in print
or some tongue of an elder day uses ‘them, I
remember with feeling intense as tears. Why
does a word mean so much? Think of the
loss in forgetting!
And, getting away from children but not
from childhood, there was the “bobbin” that
was either the peg or the latch, according
to which fastened the door; and “grue,”
which was Scottish, and “Tantony,” some-
times “tantpry,” which may have come from
Italy by way of France to Ireland. “The
Tantony pig,” the last little one of the litter,
smaller than the others, and usually a runt,
and given to St; Anthony as a cheap offer-
ing ; good enough for the saint, but not good
enough for keeping.
I love words: dower-chests of history,
and the more valuable as the more nearly
forgotten. Rummage as you may, there
is always some new aspect, or use, or re-
membrance of them, to be found.
And there is “drouth,” re-risen against
“drought,” because poets wanted a second
rhyme for “mouth”—which, by the way,
they can find in a still seldomer word,
“scouth.” And there was “boon,” as Applied
to the fresh of the air, and “posy” and
“nosegay” and “bookay” ; and “bosky” and
“bower” and “the green shade”—which
meant just what it said. “Run out and
play in* thg green shade” is the earliest full
sentence I can remember being said to me.
And something in a red nightgown toddled
out into the green shade. It was me; it
was summer; it was long ago.
MARY GILMORE.
The Art of Do Morgan
On the eighth day out I went sick with
typhoid, self-inflicted by black water and
disobedience to “Preliminary Railway Ex-
pedition Rules.” Buenos Aires was the
ultimate threshold of adventure, a place
steeped in Spanish charm and music, in
youth and courage, in color and life —no
man would ask for a better setting for his
work, his humble traffic in the vanguard of
civilisation. But every man would ask for
any other place in which to convalesce;
there is no room for shelves in Buenos Aires,
or for men lying on them. To me, waiting
for health in bitterness in, the English, hos-
pital, a man brought “Joseph Vance, an Ill-
written Autobiography,” by William de
Morgan.
This is a quiet book, very long, very gar-
rulous, academically true to description as
, ill-written, and of -a strength of charm arid
intimate expression which come back to me
in their first freshness now over the ten
years between. The author was nearing 70
when the book was published; his possible
: age was discernible in the wisdom and fair-
i ness of the work, but in nothing else. The
; garrulity was an overflowing joy of life of
' any age, as typical of 30 as of 70. It was
■ the habitual wordiness of the domestic
■ stories and arguments which are a part of
: every household, held jealously close to the
. heart of the household, and usually utterly
incomprehensible and childish to the stranger.
De Morgan’s sign upon English letters is
that_ he made the intimate tales and jokes
of his household most interesting to the mil-
lions of strangers who read them.
De Morgan (and Joseph Vance) was a
mechanical engineer, sufficiently prosperous
and busy, living in comfort in a London
suburb. He kept his sense of humor well
in hand, no doubt, when his professional
duties included interviews with London
clients or, what is worse, committees of
clients. But in 1907 (I think) his sense of
humor got the better of him, and “for a
lark” he wrote “Joseph Vance.” This was
an unqualified success, probably, and worth-
ily, maintaining a steady sale now in Eng-
land and America. At decent intervals of
a year or so “Alice-for-Short,” “Somehow
Good,” “It Never can Happen Again” and
the other books came out, each making its
hit and each increasing the numbers of the
huge De Morgan family of the little domestic
stories and the happy jokes. By reason
of the age of the head of the family trie ap-
pearance of each book was a great relief
to the younger members —here at least was
one more before the end. Seven of the books
came.; and now, after the end, comes “The
Old Madhouse,” posthumous and ceasing on
(Continued on page 24.)


;
nee
CX74
CXI6B
a
m
IZBIXQqs
iZßT&des
ECONOMY!
—in tHe buying of
Christmas Gifts
THERE are many sound reasons for selecting
Australia’s biggest Emporium as the best place
to buy your requirements.
THE VAST STOCKS OF
CHRISTMAS PRESENTS
ensure that you will obtain the Gift that will be
ideally suitable —and at a price to suit your pocket.
For the same reason Anthony Horderns’ can buy
at keener prices, and this benefit being passed on
to their clients, provides countless opportunities for
MONEY SAVING.
This page illustrates a few helpful suggestions.
CXIS6
CXISS
CX39
V
CX74 (as illustrated). —A richly-engraved Cake
Basket, Silver-plated on Nickel Silver. A
handsome present 35/-
CXI6B. —Entree Dish. Silver-plated on Nickel
Silver, plain design with beaded edge.
Prices, 65/-, 70/-, 75/- and 84/-
The Ever-Ready Combination Razor Set (as
illustrated). Complete with 12 blades and
automatic stropper and strop. Price 14/6
CXISS. —Knife Rest, handsomely Silver-plated
and fashioned in a very attractive design.
As illustrated 7/6 pr.
Others at 6/-, 6/6, 9/6 and 13/6
Serviette Rings (as illustrated), handsomely
Silver-plated in a range of dainty and novel
designs.
Prices . . 2/6, 3/-, 3/6, 4/- and 4/6 each.
CX39 (as illustrated). — Child’s Mug. Silver-
plated and very prettily engraved.. Gold-
finished inside. Price 17/6
Others at various prices.
Jewellery Gifts.
The Jewellery Department at Anthony Horderns’
features good values that will readily appeal to
the discriminating buyer.
Men’s Gold Sleeve Links at 14/6, 15/-, 17/6,
21/- and upwards.
Gold Chains, Tie Pins, Stud Sets, Rings.
Write for lists.
CXI S6.—A handsome Case of Tea Spoons and
Tongs, Silver-plated. In assorted designs—
-15/6, 16/6, 18/6 and 32/6
CX559. —Breakfast Cruet. Silver-plated on
Nickel Silver; 3 Crystal Glass Bottles with
Spoon complete. As illustrated 25/-
CX62. —Prettily-designed Candlestick. Silver-
plated on Nickel Silver.
As illustrated 12/ 6
CXI 17. — Sugar Scuttle and Scoop. Heavily
Silver-plated on Britannia Metal.
Price 35/-
Q 24. —Morocco Hand Bag, Kodak shape. Well
made throughout. Lined with Poplin. Inner
pocket. Price 23/-
Ql4. —Morocco Stirrup Hand Bag. In v< ry
smart design and well finished.
1/-, 1/6, 2/9 and 3/6 each.
Zl9. —Lady’s Solid Gold Keyless Expanding
Bracelet Watch. 5-plate, Compensation
Balance, Fully Jewelled. Absolutely Re-
liable £ll/10/-
Gent.’s Bicycle, the “Universal.” Built through-
out with the famous B.S.A. fittings.
With fixed wheel £l5
With Eadie Coaster Hub £l6
SEND FOR THE
CHRISTMAS CATALOGUE.
It illustrates and describes a host of Christmas
Gift suggestions. Gratis and post free. Send
your name and address—a copy will reach you
by return mail.
CX559
CX62
CXII7
1
m
Ql4
8S
iV
- .FitsL =• .....ab
: s=:
m
tent
iNg
H
Zl9
ANTHONY H ORDERN 2LSON&I2
TD
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
8
i&UVE^
605 Br i c*'k field Hill,
S.y SL.


The Ideal Holiday Companion
PH
■
The Best of
Christmas Gifts—
A KODAK
Make the forthcoming holiday a memorable
one by taking picture-records as you go —a
Kodak holiday can never be forgotten.
Kodak Photography is delightfully simple
and is a fascinating hobby—that’s why a
Kodak is always a welcome Christmas gift.
Buy a Kodak yourself or give one to a
friend you wish to please. Give Brownies
to the children.
The 3a Autographic Kodak for the popular postcard
pictures— x3\ inches. Price £6/2/6. Other Kodak
prices range from 40/- to £l4/17/6.
The No. 3 Box Brownie, for pictures 3£ x 4\ inches.
Price 23/6. Other Box Brownies from as low as 10/6.
ASK FOR THE NEW KODAK CATALOGUE.
Of all Kodak dealers and
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.
379 George Street, Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne; 250-252 Queen Street Brisbane;
The Valley; 37 Rundle Street, Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart; Ruthven Street, Toowoomba ;
Flinders Street, Townsville; Denham Street, Rockhampton; Optical and Photo Supplies Co., Perth;
109-111 Dixon Street, Wellington, N.Z. (Wholesale) ; “The Kodak Corner,” corner of Lambton Quay
and Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z. (Retail) ; 3 Lome Street, Auckland, N.Z. (Wholesale) ; 76 Stuart
Street, Dunedin, N.Z. (Wholesale) ; 148 Lichfield Street, Christchurch, N.Z. (Wholesale).
Brilliant Interpretations
by
the
World’s Greatest Musicians
JAN KUBELIK.
All lovers of good music desire to hear those celebrated violinists—Kubelik, Mischa Elman,
Fritz Kreisler, and that masterly pianist, Mark Hambourg.
Although the appearances of these stars are now confined to the capitals of Europe and
America, Australia has more than a satisfactory substitute in the perfect reproductions
made possible by
“His Master's Voice
Instrument and Records. The faultless tonal accuracy of these famous instruments is
particularly evidenced in these records. Clear, full liquid sound—every intricate movement
—the very soul of the great masters finds expression in “His Master’s Voice,” with which
these four wonder-musicians record exclusively.
Bring them into your home—entertain yourself and your friends—
and educate your children to a fine taste in music by securing some
KUBELIK t^ese records.
12-inch Records.
07979—Oanzonetta (Tschaikowsky),
07952—Dudziarz Mazurka
(Wieniawski)
07954—Perpetuum Mobile (Ries).
07988—Spanish Dance, No. 8, Op. 26
(Sarasate)
07982—Zigeunervveisen (Sarasate)
MARK HAMBOURG
12-inch Records.
05580—Liebestraume (Liszt)
05592—(a) Prelude in G flat
(Rachmaninoff)
(b) Etude in C sharp major
(Scriabine)
Instrumental Quartets and Quintets.
08053—Scherzo from quintet, Op. 44,
E flat
Mark Hambourg, Frank Bridge, War-
wick Evans, Herbert Kinze and
Marjorie Hayward.
08054—Scherzo from quartet, Op. 41,
in B flat
Mark Hambourg, Marjorie Hayward,
Frank Bridge and Warwick Evans.
08055—Scherzo from trio in D minor,
Op. 49
Mark Hambourg. Marjorie Hayward
and Warwick Evansi
MISCHA ELMAN
12-inch Records.
07995—Ave Maria
(Schubert-Wilhelin j)
07934—(ai Gavotte (Gossec)
(b) Deutcher Tanz
(Dittersdorf)
07929—Melodie (Tscbaikowsky)
07928—Nocturne (Chopin)
07927—Serenade (Schubert)
FRITZ KREISLER
10-inch Records.
3-7942—La Chasse (Cartier-Kreisler)
3-7953 —Schon Rosmarin (Fair Ros-
marin) (Kreisler)
3-7927—Variations (Tartini-Kreisler)
12-inch Records.
07960—Caprice Viennois (Kreisler)
07968 —E major Gavotte (Bach)
07939 —Humoreske (Dvorak)
07961—Tambourin Chinois (Kreisler)
Complete record lists and name of
nearest accredited dealer on request.
Sfte GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.
“GRAMOPHONE”
Regd. Trade-mark.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“His Masters Voire”
Regd. Trade-mark.


A Dainty Laxative
The day of harsh purgatives, of
big cathartic pills is over—gone for
ever. No need any longer to
swallow a nauseating dose to give
nature the gentle assistance re-
quired. Pinkettes, the new laxative,
are little pink sugar-coated ovals,
easy to take and pleasant in their
action. They are not drastic,
although certain and thorough.
Pinkettes are designed to
arouse the sluggish bowels and tor-
pid liver, to correct bad breath,
clear the complexion, and banish
biliousness and headache.
1/- per bottle at all dealers.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “The Bulletin.’
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Where to Stay when Visiting Sydney
Cronulla Beach Hotel.
Direction Cronulla Hotel, Ltd.
Healthy, Invigorating SURFING Resort.
Tel., Kogarah 19. Week-ends a Specialty.
J. A. GRANT, Manager.
MARTIN’S PILLS
are sold by all chemists and stores. Ladies
recommend them. Be sure you get the
genuine with the signature;
MARTIN, Chemist, Southampton, England
f QUEENSLAND.^
THE KEY TO 1
PROSPERITY.
QUEENSLAND
opens the door to
prosperity lor those
requiring land
Particulars ol the
millions ot acres of
Crown Land
now available will be
sent you at once,
also Booklets on the
State's resources—
FREE
/Vame
Address
Queensland Government
IfiteHiieace and Tourist Bureau
BRIS B A N E
S B.
I
i'Mm
fffce Standard Remedy which ha& outlived the CentitrXM,
SONGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Kavy men.
Used since 1596. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLICHT, FALUNC EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT,,
Sr GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road. London, England
Insist on “Singleton's’'—refuse all substitutes.
jTctl
&iv<x&ctxi.Q
■"& ‘Restore A
<u>sur
a?; Hi
m
Of 8. Allen's
mm wm
mumr
mm
m
//
d
mp
6
\nr^
%
to
SL
z:
S'f
«
vi,vi-
fcivf!
Thisfe
Shirts
Superior Fit and Finish
Thistle Shirts win
the enthusiastic ap-
proval of particular
men, for Thistle Shirts typify
good taste in style coupled
with comfort.
Their exceptional wearing
qualities, superior workman-
chip, and absolute correctness
ensure unusual value for your
money.
When you buy Shirts say
“ Thistle Shirts.” Ark also
for Thistle PYJAMAS.
M?;de in Australia
Alexander Stewart & Sons Ltd.
Makers, BRISBANE AND SYDNEY
A S 5
See this brand!
on each Shirt*.
SAFEGUARD You* HEALTH
ptJ.CoHfe Brotj n &
CWorody m
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST .MEDICINE CO IS
Coughs, Co/ds, Asthma,
ami in the Cough of BItONCUITIS ami
CONSUMPTION.
Checks EEVEKISH-
NESS am) effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery
01 all Chemists. Prices in England, lIS, S/-, 5/
Made in England.
THRIFT”—the National Watchword
In these present days of economy, when apparel is required to give the utmost
service,
Bostock’s Shoe Dressings
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
provide an excellent polish, which will increase the wear, preserve the leather and
give a bright and lasting shine. Bostock’s Violo Cream, for Patent Leather and
Glace Kid, is a scientific emulsion of high-grade waxes, which keeps the leather
soft and pliable, thus preventing cracks and insuring added service.
Colors : Black, Brown, Dark Brown, Ox Blood and White. In Tins, Bottles and Tubes.
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
Bostock’s Violo Polishes, Ltd., Sydney.
PAR PLATE
100 Per Cei\t. Value
Beyond question, the choicest patterns ever offered in silver-plated
cutlery of its grade are those of PAR PLATE—the low priced spoons,
forks and knives, made by ONEIDA COMMUNITY LTD. Its rich
and varied designs appeal strongly to the artistic temperament, and the
knowledge that it is guaranteed for 10 years wear gives the greatest
satisfaction to all patrons. It bears a good plate and is the only silver-
ware of its grade protected by a definite time guarantee.
Glorify your table by adorniug it with PAR PLATE Made in factories of THE
ONEIDA COMMUNITY LTD. who make the famous COMMUNITY PLATE
(guaranteed for SO years) and Oneida Community RELIANCE PLATE (guaranteed
for 25 years). Go to the leading shops and see what a sovereign will buy.
ONEIDA COMMUNITY LIMITED
The Banking House, 228 Pitt St., SYDNEY
Established 1848, Incorporated 1881, at Oneida, N.Y., U.S.A.
■
Munrot Dtsi&K
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ballade of Rememberings.
Soft through the pallid heart of sickly night
There comes a mist of music, wistful-
clear,
Wiser than patient pen of man can write,
Frail as the fogs that rise and disappear;
It sounds an anthem through the midnight
drear,
Calling the ghosts of years too far away,
Bringing the thought of things too shy
and dear.
It seems but yesterday—but yesterday!
<
A slow and lambent flame lifts into tight
A row of silent heads that crane and
peer—• *
Peer with their dull dead eyes and hollow
sight
And tremble on the breath in phantom
tier,
Like the pale portents of a rising fear ;
And as those quiet faces fade and sway,
The past, with lowered eyes, draws very
near.
It seems but yesterday—but yesterday !
Across the darkened hush the fancies white
Go softly sighing, crooning in my ear
The tale of old faint pain, old dim delight,
Old bitterness that tempers with a tear
The sullen passion of an ancient sneer,
As thoughts return, so comes this lost array
Of memories that soothe; or sting, or sear.
It seems but yesterday—but yesterday!
Envoi.
Though all the stars glow bright with holy
cheer,
And gladness sings down every cosmic
way,
There comes a hush ; an old grey song I hear.
It seems but yesterday—but yesterday!
N.S.W.
ALAN BYRON.
Love’s Sacrifice.
I wish that you had known me years ago,
Had seen my rounded cheek and snowy skin.
You say that I have charms enough to win
And keep your love; but you will never know
What I was like w r ith all the tender glow
Of Youth. And yet I think my soul within
Is lovelier far, in spite of grief and sin.
For though the body fades the soul must
grow;
And so, perhaps, the gifts I have to give
Are not too poor to place upon Love’s
shrine,
In token of the sacrifice I make
By taking not your love. And I will liye
In a dream world where you are wholly mine,
And love you always for our love’s sweet
sake.
VICTORIA.
BEATRICE C.
Inconstant Spring.
The blossoms of the Spring blew everywhere
Their rose-pink bubbles and their balls of
white;
A shy. sweet perfume trembled on the air,
And all the world seemed vibrant with
de 'ip lit.
A wild bird sang; but then the hot breeze
woke,
Sweeping the valley, smiting hill and-ford.
Sw'ft from his scabbard at its fiery stroke,
The leaping sun-god drew his flaming
sword.
Dead petals drifted and the herbage shrank ;
Hushed in the silence sank the last bird
trills.
The pools grew stagnant where the cattle
drank.
Then, far across the sweep of southern hills,
1 heard a stirring as a soul in pain—
The Spring’s bright tears, the fragrance of
the rain.
QUEENSLAND.
A. GORE-JONES.
My Library.
An Eastern window where the morning sun
Laughs through a curtain lace of blue-gum
leaves;
A window facing north that slow gold eves
Make tender with the thought that day is
done.
Woodbine and roses round both casements
run—
The bees’ flower-harvest ripe with honeyed
sheaves.
Plain walls where Fancy's dreaming often
weaves,
For pictures, scenes that Shakspeare’s pea
has spun.
At dusk the glowing logs cast dancing gleams
Across the floor, and goblin shadows caper
About old favorite books upon the wall.
What matter that because my wealth is
small
My books are few? More room for faery
dreams
Too frail and fair for pi*ison-tomes of paper!
Tasmania.
H. W. Stewart.
The Old Wind.
There blows a very old wind
That makes the world go round ;
And it's a soft and warm wind and blows
along the ground,
And bears the voice of laughter that never
wholly dies.
Again, and it’s a fierce wind that blackens
all the skies,
And men look up with curses, and girls with
tear-blind eyes.
But though the voice of crying is borne
from every hill,
Time must go and the old wind blow
Until the world stands still.
N.S.W.
McENSAY.


THE TOOL-ROOM & ITS EQUIPMENT
All who are familiar with the methods of production demanded by modern
conditions know that the tool-room is an important unit in any manufacturing
scheme, and that on its efficiency the profitable running of a plant is, to a large
extent, dependent.
A manufacturing plant, consists mainly of capstan and turret lathes, auto-
matic machines for bar and chuck work, milling machines, drilling machines and
grinding machines.
Thefse tools cannot be run efficiently unless facilities are provided for
supplying the special tools, jigs and fixtures which they use. It is therefore
essential that a tool-room should be installed, having the plant necessary for the
actual production of these articles, in addition to the accommodation and
machinery which is required for their storage and maintenance.
Having had over 20 years’ experience with one of the largest manufacturers
ot these, tools, jigs and fixtures which are required in all manufacturing plants,
we are in a position to give reliable advice on the equipment and operation of
tool-rooms, either large or small.
"We supply the tool-room plant itself, lathes, milling machines, shapers,
drilling machines and grinders, and also the drills, taps, reamers, gauges and fine
tools which are used either in the tool-room or in the main machine-shop.
ENQUIRIES ARE SOLICITED.
SPECIALTIES.
Horizontal Milling Machines.
Vertical Milling Machines.
Capstan loathes.
Combination Turret Lathes.
Hexagon Turret Lathes.
Automatic Turning Machines.
Hall-hearing Drills.
Coventry Self-opening Dielieads.
Coventry Concentric Chucks.
Coventry Collapsing Taps.
Baush Multiple Spindle Drills.
Brown Bevel Gear Shapers.
Carpenter Taps and Dies.
Pollard Heavy Duty Drills.
Photostat Copying Machines.
Wadkin Mills Universal Woodworking
Machines.
Dorman Tapping Attachments.
Fellows Gear Shapers.
Gardner Crank Pin Turning Machines,
ileald Grinding Machines.
Pratt Chucks.
Jackson Die Sinkers.
Keller Die Sinkers.
Maiden Screwing Machines.
Garvin Milling Machines.
Dodge & Shipley Lathes.
I.unisden Grinders.
Moback Machine Vices.
Norton Grinding Machines.
Queen City Shaping Machines.
E. G. Herbert Hack Sawing- Machines.
Rotoflam Hardening Furnaces.
Eternite Case-hardening Compound.
Scriven Shipyard Machinery.
Taft Fierce Tool Room Specialties.
Tangye’s Heavy Machine Tools.
Van Norman Combination Mills.
Worcester Drill Grinders.
Willard Eathes.
Wrigley’s Small Tools.
CHAS E. YOUNG
Sole Agent for
ALFRED HERBERT
Machine Tool Makers and Importers, Coventry, F.n
LTD.
d,
Telephones: City 10109, 10110.
Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Lathe,” Sydney.
Codes Used: ABC, Lieber’s, Western Union and Private
57 GEORGE STREET NORTH, CIRCULAR QUAY, SYDNEY.
FLIES !
And How to KILL THEM !
USB
INSECTIBANE
(Mind the Spelling).
No other powder possesses the qualities which make INSECTIBANE so
peculiarly efficacious.
Though so deadly to insect life in all forms, INSECTIBANE may be
sprinkled freely about, as it is harmless to men and animals.
The high quality of INSECTIBANE is maintained and THE PRICE HAS
NOT BEEN RAISED.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS and STORES.
A
6^l
JU
&
i§
//v Jsay
2
B
■S
8
at
I
V ?3
These
are the
Days for “REX” CAMP PIE.
This is just the time you need it. You want its
appetizing quality, its wholesome nourishment, its
convenience.
With “Rex ” Camp Pie you have no materials to
buy nor prepare, no marketing, no labor, no
cooking cost. It comes to you completely cooked
blended, ready for your table.
Think what a help and comfort—especially at this
time of the year.
Sold by Grocers everywhere.
Keep a tin always handy.
FOGGITT, JONES & CO. LTD.,
Packers of “Rex’' Pure Food Products,
Curers of “Rex ’ Hams and Bacon.
J. 516
Thorne’s is the real Christmas
Spirit. The perfect purity of
this rare old Highland Malt
Whisky from Glenlivet—its
mellow flavor, its stimulant
properties, have made it first
favorite with connoisseurs.
Let every Christmas toast be
pledged in—
THORNE’S
O.H.M: Incomparable WHISKY.
SPECIALS
As a Christmas Gift or a Christmas "smoke,” Figaro Specials are
just right. Try them to-day.
THE CIGAR THAT SATISFIES.
Here is a fine old Cognac of excellent quality
and perfectly matured. Doctors specially recom-
mend it because of its richness in higher ethers.
Apk for it by name—
MART ELL’S
BRANDY.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Rost Office., Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Rost as a Newspaper.
Von. 40. —No. 2077.
THUItSDAY, "DECEMBER 4, 1919.
PuiCE 6d.
TEACHING HIM DISCIPLINE.
UNCLE SAM: “You may have been thought right smart over thar in Europe, but I’m going to teach you there’s somebody else boss in THIS school.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.’’
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
TUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £ 1 6s. Cd. per annum you can have The Bulletin
sent regularly to you every week for a year, to any
ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, post paid.
Cheques, drafts 9 etc.j which should he crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
'The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
rcill be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Bui
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood thai
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, _ those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
xvhich has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from'Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludyate Circus; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London, E.C.4.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., 441 Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
V.S.A.—N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs Nexus Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; J.
Roland Kay Co., lSJffi Conway Buildings, Chicago,
U.S.A.; Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington,
U.S.A.; Bretano’s, Fifth Avenxie and 27th Street, New
York.
Honolulu. —Fisher News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Ilouxig, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong.- —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Ilong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. — Whitten Bros., Samarai and Kulamadan.
Fiji.— A. Barker, Suva.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
papex): Throughoxit the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Iloxce Islands,
10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
lid. Only one nexuspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: 802., lid.; Bioz. to 10oz., 3d.;
lOoz. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, koz., lid., and id. each
additional 2oz.
NOTICE UNDER THE ELECTORAL LAW.
For any unsigned matter in this paper for
which a signature is required under the
Commonwealth electoral law, S. H. Prior, 214
George Street, Sydney, accepts the responsi-
bility.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1919.
PARTY POLITICS MAKE STRANGE
BEDFELLOWS.
Until a week or so ago the Federal political
world was in the unprecedented situation of
having no official Conservative party. The
electors were offered their choice not so much
between two policies as between two person-
alities. W. M. Hughes is not one of those
who become cautious and illiberal with age;
or, if he is, he has not yet grown old enough.
He is certainly soberer than he was in, say,
1892. Extremism is the privilege of irre-
sponsibility, and Hughes has held office for
years and had wide experience of affairs,
here and abroad, since his soap-box days.
Despite his alleged popularity with English
duchesses (several of whom, by the way, are
far more radical than most Australian
women of wealth), he has come back, for
good or ill, much the same man that he was
when he left. He is still handicapped by
the faults of his temperament and his quali-
ties : he talks so fluently that he talks too
much; he is impulsive; an improvvisator ;
of tactics as well as of phrases: he makes
enemies much more easily than he wins
friends. But there is a goal ahead of him
which he sees clearly; and he never deviates
from what he believes to be the road leading
to it. He has tried three times to get the
Federal Constitution altered so that valid
legislation of the sort which was called
“socialistic” in G. H. Reid’s day may go
on the Statute Book. He has failed each
time chiefly because the Conservative ele-
ment of the community has been against
him. In the present struggle he had his old
opponents behind him, if only nominally, till
the other day: they kept in position, though
many of them complained that he was
brutally demanding a blank cheque.
The Conservatives followed him because
the alternative was T. J. Ryan. The ex-
Queensland Premier is the immemorial type
of Party politician out of office and deter-
mined to get there if guff will help. As a
promiser of the fantastic and the incredible
he has all previous competition, so
far as Australia is concerned, beaten
out of sight. If he became Prime
Minister and carried out a quarter of
his stupendous programme, paper "‘sov-
ereigns” would presently become as general
as shillings, and about as valuable. But the
Australian democracy is remarkably well-
educated and astute. It would take a far
subtler master of intrigue to “come it” over
them than Mr. Ryan has shown any signs
of being. He is where he is because, like
W. M. Hughes, he is a personality. An
advocate, equally impassioned, of black and
of white labor; an extreme Tory first and an
ultra-Radical shortly afterwards; a pacifist
in war and a militarist in peace, he stands
for a class of political adventurer who has
amused and fascinated the crowd all through
history: Horatio Bottomley, England’s
unchallenged Prince of Bathos, is perhaps
the Empire’s chief exemplar at the moment.
But a closer parallel to Ryan is provided
by Wilkes. The Liberator was a reformer
by trade, but something quite otherwise in
practice. Plis pathos on the subject of the
“disinherited proletariat” drew tears while
he was on the platform; he used it to amuse
his Medmenham Abbey friends when the
meeting had dispersed. No one appreciated
the value of catch-phrases better than
Wilkes did, or used them to greater effect
in public. But he believed neither in his
phi’ases nor in his politics. “I never was a
Wilkesite,” he remarked after a lifetime of
shouting and dissension. It is likely that
T. J. Ryan is anything in the world except
a liyanite. But whatever else he may be, he
is a stout, persuasive fellow, with a loud
voice, a notable gift for defying the capi-
talistic tyrant and his minions, and a gran-
diose way of looking at things in general.
Sim Tappertit, Micawber, the late Dan
O’Connor of N. S. Wales —he is all these
and more. No wonder the worker who likes
a dash of melodrama with his politics pre-
fers the sound and fury of Ryan to the faint
reasonableness of Tudor !
* * * *
There suddenly intruded itself into this
clamorous world of Labor v. Ultra-labor, of
Democracy v. Democracy-gone-mad, the
Missing Link. Or, rather, the Collateral;
for it had been there or thereabouts all the
time. Forthright Toryism, under the nom
dc guerre of the Farmers’ party, has just
dashed down its silken glaive. The Far-
mers are perfectly clear as to where they
•stand. They are opposed to everything.
They don’t approve of an increased tariff
that will make anything any dearer for
them ; they would rather see Australian in-
dustries ruined by the cheap-labor com-
petition of Japan and Germany. They de-
precate rash talk on the gratuity question.
“Brave men,” they say, “need justice, not
bribes.” Their scheme for scotching the
profiteer is “more production.” It is a
good slogan, though the Farmers do not
explain how the production of more pianos
is going to stop profiteering in Yankee oil;
or how more pianos are to be produced
here, under existing tariff conditions, in
competition with Dresden, which must pay
most of its share of the war-indemnity in
the form of exported pianos. But, above
all, the Farmers are hostile to any change
in the Constitution. In its present form
the Australian Parliament can do nothing
to about 98 per cent, of the profiteers in
Australia. It is impossible to fix a common
wage-standard, with the result that for the
same work men are paid less on the Vic-
torian than on the N. S. Wales side of
the Murray. It is impossible to have a
uniform Pensions system, or a uniform
Companies Act, or any sort of uniformity
in innumerable similar directions; and all
the time the cost of multiple government is
bearing down on the poorer classes. In
such circumstances it might be thought that
Mr. Ryan, the working-man’s deliverer,
would be with the Hughes as against the
Falkiner faction, if only on the Referen-
dum issue. Not at all! The game is not
played that way. Politicians of the Ryan
stamp would rather see their profiteer-ridden
supporters famish than allow them to be
saved by the enemy. On the chief issue of
the coming elections, therefore—the Profit-
eering issue—the poles will come together.
The “exploiter” and his victim will vote the
same ticket. Broadcloth and bowyangs will
labor in unison to keep Parliament im-
potent ; the former for reasons which are
obvious, the latter because it is contrary
to the future interests of Mr. Ryan that
Hughes should be given an opportunity to
help the oppressed. It is the Party system
with the mask off, and most of its clothes
as well.
[Written to express the opinions of The Bulletin
by J. B. Dailey, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
THE MULTITUDE OF COLORED
LABORITES.
A fuss has been made during the Federal
election campaign on the subject of Black
Labor and Black Laborites, and the versatile
and explosive T. J. Ryan has been men-
tioned in this connection. Certainly Ryan
was once a black laborite in the sense that
he tried to attach himself to one end of the
Queensland Nationalist party, while any
apostles of the worn-out, played-out, bowled-
out Kanaka-importing doctrine who still sur-
vived hitched themselves on to the other
end. But there really never was any Black
Labor problem in Australia. The blackest
men—the African kind —never annoyed Aus-
tralia and never wanted to. The trouble
lies with moderately-dark men from India,
which lies mostly outside the tropics; pale
yellow men from China, which is almost
wholly non-tropical and some of it so cold
that the rivers freeze in winter; _ and pale
brown men from Japan, which is wholly
non-tropical, and to a great extent corres-
ponds with Tasmania and Maoriland. The
Colored Labor question isn’t a Queensland one
except in the sense that Queensland lies
much too handy to Asia and that the Kanaka
—a scarce and feeble and futile and tran-
sitory person—was once imported there.
The question is all-Australian, and inasmuch
as the Chinaman and the Japanese are cold-
weather folk it is probably, in the long run,
more southern than northern. And as for
colored laborites, they are so numerous that
it is hardly worth while to worry about
Ryan in this connection.
Colored laborites may be defined as per-
sons who employ colored labor by choice
and not from necessity, and whether the
choice is based on greed, laziness, incapacity,
political expediency or mental kink the result
is the same. Also they are people who advo-
cate the employment of colored labor, and
others who profess to be neutral or actively
hostile in the present but who cultivate con-
ditions which are almost certain to give
colored labor a solid hold on the country in
the future; in short, the white ants who
eat away the defences. The local aboriginal
must, of course, be classed for industrial pur-
poses as a white man. This is the only
country he has, and there are reasons, includ-
the wrath of God and the conscience of man,
why he shouldn’t be expelled or disqualified.
But he is so few and so futile that Australia
has no color problems save imported ones.
The colored man may reasonably be em-
ployed abroad if he grows some necessary
article which can’t be grown here, though
that sort of article is extremely rare, or if
he digs up some necessary _ mineral that
doesn’t exist here. Otherwise his employ-
ment, either here or in his own country, is
almost entirely a sign of avarice, premedi-
tated sin, laziness or incapacity. If the
“nigger” is brought here lie is under super-
vision—unless he grows strong enough to
reverse the order of things and to supervise
us. He pays taxes here and thus strengthens
the Government, instead of paying them
to a foreign Government and strengthening
it against us. And some “niggers” prove
good fighting material when their adopted
country is in a tight place. On the other
hand, he increases too fast and tends to
outnumber the white man as he has done
in Natal and as he might have done in the
United States if he hadn’t been more than
counter-balanced by a flood of (sometimes
undesirable) white immigration. Then he
wants the vote and with it the control ot
the country, and the result sooner or later
is chronic civil war or something very like
it. He adulterates the race with pallul un-
desirables. His Chinatown or Shantytown
is never picturesque. And when colored
labor is brought into the country m large
quantities the nation has put itself past re-
pair and repentance unless it repents by mas-
sacring the aliens. Almost anything else
even Freetrade —can be repented ot; but tins
crime can’t. *
* *
The colored laborites who believe in em-
ploying the tinted stranger outside are
rather better citizens. Also they are a great
deal worse hypocrites, for they preach one
thing and practise another, while the man
who advocates bringing our tinted brother
here preaches both things. Australia is an
enormous importer of goods which it knows
to be colored, and of goods which it sus-
pects to be colored or partly so. Its imports
of colored goods are increasing, while those
of assuredly white goods are diminishing.
Also its dependence on colored ships is in-
creasing. All this helps to strengthen the
colored nations, for our employees pay taxes
to their Governments and serve m their
armies, and learn useful arts in making
things for us that we should make for our-
selves—arts which will further handicap
Australia in the next struggle. This is a
serious matter, seeing that the most imposing
colored race on earth will of necessity be in
the struggle for the lordship of the Pacific
when it comes. And because Australia has
so many employees, white and colored,
abroad, it has work for few white men at
home, and these mostly in primitive occupa-
tions partly financed with loans. It attracts
few good white immigrants for want of
skilled employment to offer them, though it
gets some who don’t care to work except at
revolution. So the case against this country
—that it is an empty land awaiting colonisa-
tion—grows worse instead of better, for in
proportion to its neighbors it is really
emptier than it was.
# * * *
Out of 1000 Australians there is possibly
one colored laborite of the old type. Tin-
rest are divided among (1) good Australians
who believe not only in not employing tinted
races here, but in building up a big white
population and big local white industries so
that we won’t need to employ them else-
where; (2) bad Australians who say they
want to keep Australia white, but who want
to encourage Freetrade and the employment
of “niggers” outside; and (3) bad Aus-
tralians who preach, a white continent but
ccnnive at the employment of “niggers’’
abroad, and who do their best, by devices of
the Thomas Walsii kind, to retard or
destroy local industry and restrict white im-
migration, so that empty Australia will be
an easy prey one of these days to its big
colored neighbors. It may be annexed
politically. Or it may be annexed racially
through a combine of nations voting that
white settlement in Australia is a failure and
that the Commonwealth’s principal products
are cheap revolutionists and loans, and that
the spectacle of an empty continent in a
crowded world can no longer be tolerated.
Australia has altogether too many colored
laborites, and honest ones of the Bruce
Smith kind, if B. Smith is still of his old
opinions, are the least part of the trouble.
[Written to express the opinions of The Bulletin
by James Edmond, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
“BOTTOMLESS PIT FINANCE.”
Randolph Bedford writes;—
Under the heading of “Land of Bottomless Pit
Finance” Tiie Bulletin contributor responsible
proves not much more than mental jaundice. The
statements seemed to me so mean that I got from
the Commissioner for State Enterprises answers to
the criticisms, and conclusions follow.
The Bulletin says: “His [Ryan’s] State enter-
prises at June, 1919, had, in addition to the loans
they started with, £534,738 of overdraft.” The
Bulletin contributor cannot easily be said not to
understand the position, but if he doesn’t he deliber-
ately distorts it. The indebtedness to the Treasury
during last year only increased by £350,000, which
latter sum practically represented the purchase of
Lyndhurst and Buckingham Downs stations, ail'd the
indebtedness to Treasury at June 30 last was well
covered by substantial assets.
The Bulletin contributor goes on: “The Govern-
ment had bought up 29 stations and gone heavily
into the sheep and ox trade. It didn’t supply its
butchers’ shops from these, but sold the meat at
the best profiteering prices. The State shops were
supplied with meat commandeered from private
owners. The stations were taken over in exchange
for bonds bearing only 44 p.c. interest, though the
Government can’t borrow below £5 13s. 6d. All the
same, 12 of the 29 cheap-money stations were run
last year at a heavy loss, and if the accounts were
lumped, the whole 29 showed a loss.” This state-
ment is untrue. For instance, the Government had
only bought nine stations at June 30 last, not 29.
It did supply State butchers’ shops, where neces-
sary, from these, and the policy of the Government
generally is to utilise its station cattle for State
butchery purposes. The State shops were mainly
supplied with meat obtained by agreement from the
companies, and at no loss to the latter. The vendors
of the stations were quite satisfied to accept the
Government’s 41 per cent, bonds ; in fact, the num-
ber of offers of pastoral properties received and con-
tinuing to be received by the Government is proof
that the vendors are eager. Six out of the nine
stations operating last year showed a substantial
profit, the loss on the other three being comparatively
small. In two of them, Brooklyn and Merluna, the
loss was due to the fact that cattle which could
have been treated had to be held back on account
of the state of the country. Now, Labor didn’t
make the drought. Droughts are an intermittent
habit in Queensland, and, anyhow, the nett profit
on the working of the State stations for the past
year totalled £43,975; and the accumulated profit
at June 30 amounted to £157,214.
The Bulletin grouch goes on: “The State but-
cheries apparently showed a loss, despite the cheap
commandeered meat. At least on a turnover Oi
£550,000 nett sales exceeded purchases by only about
£19,500, which couldn’t possibly pay interest on
the capital invested.” The Bulletin contributor
doesn’t know what he is talking about. The State
butcheries did not show a loss, but a profit of
£37,000, and accumulated nett £95,00'0. The turn-
over amounted to £503,770 ; and sales exceeded pur-
chases by £117,338 (not £19,500 as stated). The
profit for the year represented one-third of a penny
per lb. of meat sold. The very fact that approx-
imately four million customers were served over
the counter at the State butcheries during the past
year shows that the business is solid. There are
39 shops, and arrangements are in hand for the
establishment of another 12, to be succeeded by
more when arrangements are completed with the
companies*. Could The Bulletin point to any
other business like it in Australia built in the
time and without capital in the ordinary sense?
The State hotel is not in debt. It showed a
profit of £l2O for the past year and an accumulated
profit of £1264. And, as shown in the State Enter-
prises Commissioner’s report, “The bar profits were
used to provide, at a minimum rate, food which was
not stinted in either quantity or quality, and accom-
modation much superior to that existing under
ordinary circumstances in similar districts.”
The State Produce Agency is not in debt. It
showed a profit for the year of £1052 and an
accumulated profit of £1223. Considering the un-
favorable season and the fact that the Agency is
only in its infancy, the results for the year were
very satisfactory—6s7s consignments were received
and the turnover amounted to £124,421.
The State Fishery showed a loss for the year
of £8536. This enterprise is only in a prelimi-
nary stage. To-day, under State control, a larger
number of the people in Brisbane and a greater
number in the country (as shown from the sales)
receive a larger quantity of fish of a better quality,
and the fishermen are now getting a good return
for their labor.
After providing for adequate depreciation and
paying the Treasury 5 per cent, interest on the
amount advanced by them, the aggregate nett profit
of the State enterprises for the year amounted to
£86,102 Bs. 6d. Six out of the seven enterprises
showed a profit on the year’s transactions. The
accumulated nett profits of the enterprises amounted
to £262,940, of which (a) there has been carried
to reserve £100,000; (b) there will be repaid to
Treasury in reduction of loan on account of three
of the State enterprises £60,000, and paid to
Treasurer to the credit of Consolidated Revenue
£ll,OOO. The balance remaining in profit and loss
will then amount to £91,940.
The Treasury has advanced from Loan Account
£1,120,869, and we owe sundry creditors £61,360,
making a total liability of £1,182,229. Against
this our assets total £1,445,170 14s. 2d., made up
as follows:
Land and buildings .. .. £336,490
Plant and machinery .. .. 78,648
Stocks . . . . .. .. 964,689
Book debts .. .. .. 50,430
Cash 14,913
Total £1,445,170 .
There is thus a surplus of assets over liabilities of
£262,940.
As a matter of fact a realisation of the stock and
other assets of the State Stations Department alone
would more than cover the whole of the liabilities
to the Treasury.
The main justification for the Government estab-
lishing State enterprises was that the existing cost
of commodities to the consumer was too high and
that the State could run the business as well, if not
better, and at less cost to the consumer. Apart from
the balance-sheet, which is not the only test of the
success or otherwise of the State policy, the ques-
tion may be asked whether the effect desired has
been realised. It appears to me that the question
therefore arises: “What would have been the position
in regard to the various industries concerned had
the State enterprises not been in operation?” In
reply I believe that, had it not been for the oper-
ations of State enterprises during the past year,
prices, so far as the commodities covered in those
businesses are concerned, would have been immeasur-
ably higher, and in the case of foodstuffs the quality
of the goods supplied in no way superior and in
certain lines not as good.
* * * *
The writer of “Bottomless Pit Finance”
replies: —
Mr. Bedford, M.L.C., accuses me of jaundice. I
never had jaundice in my life, nor divine afflatus, nor
cacoethes loquendi.
Mr. Bedford, M.L.C., doesn’t really contradict my
statement about the minor State enterprises of
Queensland having an overdraft of £534,738, though
he scoffs at it. They owe £588,496 to loan funds
and £534,738 to trust funds (overdraft).
If, as Mr. Bedford, M.L.G., says, the Government
hasn’t acquired 29 station properties, at least the


THE CHRISTMAS BULLETIN.
The special Christmas Num-
ber of THE BULLETIN will be
published on Saturday, Decem-
ber 13. It will be found just as
good as the writers and artists
of Australia can make it;
and, approximately, there are
a hundred of them repre-
sented —as far as this paper
knows, the largest collection
of workers with pen-and-ink
ever got together in Australia.
PRICE 6d.
Auditor-General enumerates 29 properties, which is
some evidence, and he says aggregate expenditure
exceeds revenue. Mr. Bedford, M.L.C., mentions nine,
which possibly makes 38. I said the Government
didn’t supply its meat-shops from these properties.
Mr. Bedford, M.L.C., after protesting violently, says
the shops are “mainly supplied with meat obtained
by agreement from the companies.” That seems lo
te what I said.
Mr. Bedford, M.L.C.; asks if I can point to any
similar (meat) business in Australia. I can’t —not
now. Ned Kelly acquired meat by agreement (agree-
ment made by himself in his own presence) from
companies and others. But Ned lost his portfolio
long ago.
My figures of receipts and expenditure of Queens-
land’s State enterprises were taken from the Auditor-
General’s report. It doesn’t deal exhaustively with
the railways, which lost £1,421,328 last year—more
than the losses of all the other State and Federal
railways put together, though they were a paying
concern before the awful Ryan’s day. Railways have
a separate report. It is no use blaming the drought.
The crash commenced before there was any drought.
Also other States have worse drought and less crash.
A supplementary report of the Auditor-General
which has just reached me mentions profits of
£94,639 on some enterprises. Fish isn’t one of them.
Mr. Bedford, M.L.C., thinks the fish will be better
when it is older, but I have doubts about the ageing
of fish. Anyhow, this scrap of profit doesn’t seem
much against £1,421,328 loss. And the man who
was left in charge when Ryan bolted says that things
are getting worse.
Queensland during the Ryan regime had the
biggest increase in cost of living among the States
(Kniubs’s statistics). Mr. Bedford, M.L.0., thinks
this disaster would have been immeasurably worse
but for Ryan. I think differently, and I have been
thinking longer than Mr. Bedford. My birth cer-
tificate proves that. Also I have thought over a wider
range. The labels on my cabin trunk prove that.
In this matter I have no cause for bias, premedi-
tated one-sidedness, jaundice or grouch. I never
met Ryan, nor received a letter from him. (I can
say the same of Hughes, Tudor, Storey, Gonsidine,
Fihelly, Theodore, etc.) Ryan never put me in
any nominee Upper House (which no democrat should
haunt) in the (possibly justifiable) belief that I
would be a thick-and-thin supporter and a good man
to be in a place where financial knowledge isn’t
necessary, the Treasury being managed in the other
House. On the other hand, no constituency ever
said on polling-day that I was the worst kind of
man to be in the House that does control the finances
—this despite my many and universally recognised
good qualities. And when I was a financial editor
my standing was so unquestioned that much of my
work re-appeared in a paper owned, I believe, by
Mr. Bedford, M.L.O. It wasn’t blamed on me either
—I mean it wasn’t acknowledged. The paper that
used it took the entire responsibility and chanced it,
regarding my accuracy as beyond suspicion.
THE RUSSIAN FERMENT SETTLES
DOWN.
When Bolshevism arose from the ruins of
the House of Romanoff many people in
Australia hastened to adopt the new doc-
trine. They did not know exactly what it
meant. No one did at the time; not even
the Bolsheviks themselves. It was clear
only that something had appeared which
stood for a form of Communism and for
“Freedom” —meaning an opportunity to
smash, steal and slay without interference
from the State authorities. There are people
in every country who live in hope of such
an era. They long for a time when,
“wagery” having been extinguished in cap-
italistic gore, life will be one long Darg.
About a year ago our local optimists of up-
heaval were eagerly circulating the news that
the glorious thing had arrived in the Com-
monwealth. Australia’s Revolutionary Day
was said to be “round the corner.” Its foot
was in the door, so to speak ; the pin was
on the point of being withdrawn from the
bomb. The counter chiefly relied on by the
Constitutionalists was (and is) a stream of
horrible stories about manners and customs
in the birthplace of the new doctrine. There
was (and is) a melancholy sameness, not to
say staleness, about these stories. They had all
been retailed previously of the Germans in
Belgium and the Austrians in the Ukraine.
Before that the same crimes had been
attributed to the Servians, and to the in-
habitants of the Balkans generally. Until
the Japanese became the allies of Britain
they were understood to do a good deal in
the same line. Such conduct is expected of
neutral nations often, and of hostile ones
always. Burke voiced the view popularly
held of our present allies a century and a
quarter ago in his “Reflections on the French
Revolution.” Nothing worse has been said
about Lenin and his henchmen. Lafayette
summed up the Bolsheviks of his day as
“cowardly cannibals.” Walpole considered
that no such barbarities had ever been com-
mitted as by “that atrocious and detestable
nation,” the French. The only people who
dared to speak up for the new movement
were the contemporaneous equivalents of
our I.W.W. enthusiasts; and they did it
in fearful whispers in their “Constitution-
alist Clubs.”
* * * *
Never has history repeated itself with
more fidelity than it has throughout the
Russian Revolution. The Czar and Czarina
are Louis and Marie Antoinette over
again—he a weak domesticated man, with-
out nerve or energy; she a proud and
dominating blunderer. The Jacobins relied
on creating a revolution in England, and
to that end worked in Ireland on the United
Irishmen; in India to persuade the Sikhs
and Marwaris, the Hindus and the Moham-
medans to forget their traditional feuds and
unite against the ruling race; and in Eng-
land,. in stealth and peril, on the wage-
earners. No doubt there were Chauvelins
from Pet.rograd hiding and working in Eng-
land up to the moment the British withdrew
from Russia the other day; Sinn Fein is
known to have had support from Russia;
and the Rowlatt Act, the most drastic coer-
cion legislation ever supplied to any part of
the British Empire (Ireland not excepted),
was said by its author to be necessary, in
great part, owing to the work of Russo-
German agitators. The French Jacobins
decided on extreme measures, but their
leader Robespierre held back; and so did
Kerensky. The Girondists of Southern
France live again in Lenin and Trotsky.
Tolstoi is another Rousseau. The basic
causes of both revolutions were the same.
The French at the end of the 18th century,
like the Russians in this century, were living
under Feudalism. There was no economic
difference between the French landowner and
his serf in 1790 and the Russian landowner
and his serf in 1916: all of them belonged
rightly to the 12th century or earlier. The
French aristocrats became emigres; so have
the Russians. The French peasants seized
the land; so have the Russians. The
emigrant nobles of France were urged
bj Burke and his school to “be alarm-
ists” to ‘‘diffuse terror” and re-establish
the old regime; the emigrant nobles of Rus-
sia were given the same counsel by Win-
ston Churchill and his school. The French
aristos failed; so, plainly, have the Rus-
sians. Denikin and Ivoltciiak: waged war
for the archdukes at first with some success,
but latterly with none at all. A cable which
arrived in Australia a week or two ago men-
tioned that the Bolshevik armies were fight-
ing with extraordinary unity and skill, “real-
ising that their land and liberty are at
stake” —which was exactly how and why
the French Revolutionary armies fought.
There are places, of course, where the paral-
lel fails. The French Revolution occurred
before a great war, the Russian during one.
The French revolutionaries came of a war-
rior race ; the Russians want nothing more
than to be pacifists. The moujik never has
yearned for that martial glory which is a
tradition with the French; and, further,
while the revolution of a century ago was
entirely engineered by soldiers —men of the
Carnot type—the present tragedy is the
work of civilians. The revolutionaries in-
sisted on fighting England in 1793: Eng-
land attacked the revolutionaries in 1919.
England fought the French Republic for 11
years; it has not persevered against the Rus-
sian for as many months. Finally, Rus-
sia does not appear to have any predatory
Napoleon at the head of its armies. All
it asks is to be left alone. Pitt prophesied
of France, at a time when its revolutionary
horrors were at their worst, that the nation
would “yet stand forth as one of the most
brilliant Powers of Europe.” So in time
must Russia.
* * * «
But whether Bolshevism is as bad as it
was painted or not, and whether it will work
out-to Russia’s salvation or not, it has no
place outside Russia. To talk of Bolshevism
as a means of correcting abuses in Australia,
for example, is like arguing that a man with
a cold in the head needs the same treatment
as a plague patient. Normal people who
love freedom loathe a state of anarchy—a
condition of affairs in which each unit of
the community has to defend himself, his
family, his food and even his clothes with
his own right arm. The Parisian workers
were more in bondage during the Commune
than they were in the 10th century; and the
Russians are less free now than they were
under Catherine. The light ahead, so far
as the sane inhabitants of Russia are con-
cerned, and the one thing probably that
reconciles them to the miseries and terrors
of Bolshevism, is the knowledge that it must
all lead some day to the political conditions
which prevail in countries like our own. If
they know anything about the subject they
will not be deluded into the idea that ours
represents the perfect social life. Intelli-
gent Russians will know that we have our
archdukes, many of whom live abroad in-
stead of on their estates, as theirs used to do.
They will know that we have autocratic
Pom edonostefi's in the form of our
Cabinets, and our Rasputins in the
form of sectarian bodies and prohibi-
tion organisations. The difference is that
all our calamities can be dealt with
if only the citizens, trouble to go to the poll,
whereas theirs had to be rooted out with
fire and iron. “In other words,” claim our
own handful of revolutionaries, “the Rus-
sians are martyrs in a great cause, and
should not, therefore, be barred from Aus-
tralia, as they are at present.” But even
Fox admitted the necessity of keeping the
French revolutionaries out of his native land
until they had got used to their new life.
It is possible to be sorry for a man and not
want to share a room with him. Many an
ancient saint would be ordered out of a
modern hotel on sanitary grounds. The Bol-
sheviks are suffering from a disease which
a Judge said the other day was infectious —
murder. The nation smells too much like
an abattoir. We shall be able in time to
look at a Russian without thinking of Pet-
rograd in the closing stages of the war, just
as we can now look at the French without
thinking of the Reign of Terror. But at
present long-distance sympathy is the best
the world can offer him.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Hun Comes Back.
The Hun, to judge by the cables, went off
his bullet-head with glee when the U.S.
Senate rejected essential provisos of the
League of Nations agreement, especially
those that Avould bind it to support its old
war-partners against a new Hun attack,
and which would prohibit it from looting
them itself —say, taking the British West
Indies or French Guiana —either on its own
or in Hun company. The rejection may not
be final, but it gave the Hun great hope and
he started to whoop things up in Berlin, to
hold tremendous pro-Kaiser demonstrations,
to lionise Ludendoref and Hindenbukg,
whom he has professed to look upon rather
coldly, and to expound the fact that he has
700,000 soldiers under arms and is adding to
the number very fast. Apparently the mili-
tary machine is still in working order; in
fact, it could hardly be otherwise, for nothing
wonderful in the way of upheaval has taken
place to put it out of order, and the new
Government, though nominally republican,
is very like the old one, only without so
much von before its name. The privates
in the new army seem to be largely the
officers of the older and bigger army, which
is a simple, ingenious way of keeping the
organisation together. The Prussian hasn’t
changed his spots; in fact, he couldn’t, for
he had never more than one spot. The king-
dom of Prussia was created by the Hohen-
zollerns, who even gave the name to the
country. It never had a king who wasn’t
Hoiienzollern. It was originally Branden-
burg, and a humble province of the German
Empire; but it was re-christened Prussia
after a non-German province which the
Electors acquired in Poland. This was done
to set up the pretence of independent
sovereignty. From its first day till a year
ago Prussia was the heavily-armed camp of
the William 11. family, and it hasn’t altered
its outlook or its ways. Nor has it got
rid of the effects of 200 years of most careful
and wonderful education all directed to the
glorification of the military and Prussian
and Hoiienzollern ideas. What resources
are behind the movement for the restoration
of the Kaiser and the tearing up of the
Treaty besides the mere mass of men is quite
unknown, but if Russian help is available
they may be considerable, especially as the
Allies couldn’t police every corner of the
vast Hun territory to prevent the manufac-
ture of new supplies. Probably the view of
the boss Iluns is that the United States
won’t join in a new war, care being taken
not to provoke it this time by wanton attack.
Also that the U.S. won’t finance the Allies
again and may even hamper them by pre-
senting old bills, and that they are too poor
to finance themselves. Also that the U.S.
may, in view of the attitude taken up by
the Senate, even seize the opportunity to
emphasise its objection, expressed in the
Monroe Doctrine, to the presence of Euro-
pean Powers on the American continent by
looting the Allies in those parts. Britain
alone owns 400,000 more square miles of
American soil than the United States does,
which is a grievance. France and Holland
both possess a trifle. There is a hope that
Italy is near enough the edge of revolution
and anarchy for another war to push it over.
On top of all there is a chance that the pro-
Hun or anti-war party may secure control
of Australia, and that these 400,000 “lean,
rakish dare-devils,” as someone described
them, who really did a notable share in
winning the last war, will not appear again.
The view of the men who now run, or appear
to run, the Australian Labor party was thus
expressed in their Victorian organ in an
address to the soldiers :
Ye are the sordid killers
Who murder for a fee.
Ye prop, like rotten pillars,
Trade’s lust and treachery.
Ilog-souled and dirty-handed
Ye sell yourselves for gain ;
And stand for ever branded
Red felons after Cain.
Ye are the fools and flunkeys,
Ye die to serve the great,
The rooks’ and gilded monkeys
Who eat the fat of State.
Ye fall in alien places,
On foreign wastes ye lie,
Stiff-limbed with putrid faces
Turned stinking to the sky.
Though great efforts are being made to in-
duce the soldiers to open wide their putrid
faces in applause for Ryan and Considine,
and though they are not alluded to as “stink-
ing” until after polling day, the sentiment
remains, and if the party which owns it gets
possession there will be one Ally the less in
the next war. Owing to the year that was
wasted talking polite platitudes over Wil-
son’s League of Peace, the Hun hasn’t paid
much indemnity yet, and the Junkers, with
time for recuperation, are much tempted to
save their money, if possible, by another
argument. They can’t lose their country,
anyhow. Nobody would try to annex it any
more than a man of peace would annex an
enraged rhinoceros whatever moral victory
he had gained over the animal. And, thanks
to the delays created by Wilson, the Kaiser
is still at large and available for a restora-
tion.
L-James Edmond, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
. ♦ ——
Queensland and the Cost of Living.
A jester who signs himself “Veritas” purs
this to The Bulletin :
If the Ryan Government has brought Queensland
to such a state of ruin please tell me: —
(1) Why is the cost of living (according to
Ivnibbs) so much cheaper in Queensland than in
every other capital city of Australia?
(2) Why is the rental of dwelling-houses fully 20
per cent, cheaper than in any other capital city of
the Commonwealth?
(3) Why is the purchasing power of a sovereign
so much greater in Queensland than in any other
capital city of the Commonwealth?
(4) How is it that the Queensland citizen has
more money per head to his credit in the State
Savings Banks pro rata than the citizens of any of
the other States of the Commonwealth?
If you can show how you reconcile your state-
ments with the above facts you win.
Then we win. For :
(1) Knibbs’s latest figures are for September, 1919.
Food and groceries which in 1911 cost on the
average in the six Australian capitals 1000 shillings
cost in September 16135. in Melbourne and 17305.
in Brisbane. Living, apart from house rent, is
therefore not “much cheaper in Queensland” —it
isn’t much cheaper even in Brisbane —than in every
other capital city of Australia. In the outside
towns of Queensland it is dearer than in Brisbane.
And, as shown above, Brisbane is dearer than Mel-
bourne. It is also dearer than Adelaide.
(2) House rent is cheaper in Brisbane than in
any other capital of Australia except Perth. This
is because 19-20ths of the houses of Brisbane are of
flimsy wood. Rents are even cheaper in the Solomons,
where the houses are of still flimsier nipa. For the
same reason, because the premises are mostly jerry-
built wood and iron huts, rents are cheaper in Broken
Hill than in Sydney. They are cheaper still in
Silverton, which is an abandoned town. Cheap rents
are not a sign of prosperity.
(3) Apart from house accommodation, Brisbane
had to spend last quarter 345. 7d. to get what Mel-
bourne could buy for 325. Id.
(4) Queensland has not more money per head in
the Savings Banks than any other State. Both Vic-
toria and S. Aus. have more: S. Aus., £29 7s. ; Vic.,
£24 Bs. 5d.; Queensland, £23 16s. 9d.
So the trouble about the “facts” of “Veri-
tas” is that they don’t even start to be facts.
But here are some. In 1914 groceries and
food which costs 1091 s. in Melbourne could
be had for 107Ss. in Brisbane. Last year
Brisbane, instead of being 13s. cheaper, was
295. dearer. Where the increase in Adelaide
was 3395., in Brisbane it was 4175. Includ-
ing house accommodation, where the cost of
living in Perth has advanced 1495. since
1914, in Brisbane it has advanced 2555.
Finally, the percentage increases in food and
groceries from July, 1914, to September,
1919, of the five principal towns of each
State (including the capital town) were as
follows:—■
Queensland .. . . 62.6 per cent.
N. S. Wales .. .. 51.4 „
Tasmania.. .. .. 48.0 ~ „
Victoria . . . . 45.5 „ „
Westralia.. .. .. 38.0 ~ „
S. Australia .. .. 36.7 ~ ~
Mr. Ryan’s champion appealed to Ivnibbs.
There is Knibbs’s reply.
A Drought and a Thread Factory,
On a recent day it was reported that the
Macquarie River in N. S. Wales had dried
up and wouldn’t run to a dividend this year;
also (in the same column of the daily paper)
that the current of prosperity was flowing
strong in the Coats sewing-cotton factory
in Britain. It had made a profit of
£3,899,388 for the year after paying the War
Profits Tax (which under sane manufactur-
ing conditions would be paid to the Austra-
lian Treasury, but under insane importing
conditions is paid to the British Treasury
instead) of anything up to 80 per cent.;
had raised its dividend to 40 per cent, on
ordinary shares; and had a reserve fund of
£11,000,000-odd. The two happenings—the
Macquarie and Coats —aren’t connected, yet
they mix in a sort of way. The former is
N.S.W.’s fifth river in point of length—s9o
miles from mouth to tail —so it is twice the
length of the historic Thames which washes
the feet of London. It has tributaries, one
340, another 200 and a third 100 miles long,
so it would be a river of consequence but
for the tendency to be a mere film of brown
damp on a wide foundation. The Macquarie
isn’t in the remote dry West, but is far
inside the recognised wheat belt, and runs
by Bathurst, 100 miles from Sydney. Its
failure is a periodical sermon on the pre-
carious character of the going-on-the-land
industry in thelnhospitable parts beyond. A
little further out one comes to what is
now the land of Finis, where horses are
hard to sell at 2s. 6d. each, and cattle and
sheep are dead, and the rabbit is dead, and
hope is dead and the crow is very much
alive, and tljere is talk of deserting' certain
towns bodily, and even the hardy locomo-
tive is in difficulties here and there, because
it has to drink salt water, which corrodes its
stomach. The Coats people put up the price
of sewing cotton about 400 per cent, during
the war, and this wasn’t an isolated case,
but only part of the general rise in the cost
of imported clothes and other imported
goods. The way things went in 1915-16 it
cost the gross return (not the profit—
there wasn’t any) for a year’s labor on an
average acrg of N. S. Wales wheat to buy
20 reels of this cotton, or less than two
reels per month. Nothing remotely approach-
ing—or one-tenth part of remotely approach-
ing—this sort of profiteering happened
among Australian manufacturers who pay
wages here and spend their gains here. They
have never had such an opportunity, for
as an importing people it is our business to
be looted by foreigners— not to loot them.
The Freetrade and Labor gospel is that it
doesn’t matter how much we are robbed so
long as it is done by somebody who doesn’t
spend the money here or give employment
here. All through the terrible war time —
and the peace time promises to be worse,
for Coats is making bigger profits than ever
—the Australian Freetrade press urged Aus-
tralians not to worry about the tariff or
about new industries of their own, but to
fix their thoughts on getting out beyond the
Macquarie, there to raise horses to sell for
or four reels of imported cotton, and
wheat that won’t sell at all because it doesn’t
exist, and trust to the moderation of Coats
for everything else. Even now, when the
land business is down and Coats is up higher
than usual, the struggle to send men out to
the old spot is as fierce as ever. The issue
as regards the foreign profiteer is always
obscured by the roar of the importing in-
terest that an upstanding man like the Aus-
tralian is no grovelling mechanic, and so
it is his destiny to grow the chimera and
the will-o’-the-wisp on the baked, cracked
plains, and reap the whirlwind and bag the
duststorm and hew down the upas-tree of
misfortune for fodder. If this is a two-bushel
year (1902 was worse than that) the man
who struggles single-handed with 200 acres
may expect under the N.S.W. Government
guarantee about £lOO (10s. per acre) for
maintenance and all expenses. Forty acres
beside a muddy coastal creek might give
room for a place something like Coats’s,
which can make £3,899.388 above all ex-
penses even in a bad year, so that the crop
is worth nearly £lOO,OOO per acre per annum.
A few thousand acres similarly planted be-
side similar muddy creeks might supply
enough profit to enable us to dispense with all
the blatant importing profiteers in Australia,
and then it would matter very little if a
dozen Macquarie rivers went dry till Judg-
ment Day. If wheat had been valued in
1914-15 at ss. per bushel (which it wasn’t),
then the last year’s profits of the Coats
thready factory would have been worth
£691,756 more than the whole crop—the
result of the struggles of 20,419 growers
and their families on 2,758,024 acres. Yet
in 1914-15 the Macquarie River didn’t quite
give up the ghost, so things might have been
worse. Also the profits of the Coats con-
cern almost certainly exceeded the profits of
the N. S. Wales wheat men in the boom


tm
MW
MM
as
ifl
A
m ■
J^UsircLlieL
THE PREMIER HOTEL IN THE COMMONWEALTH
THE RENDEZVOUS OF THE ELITE.
ENTERTAIN YOUR FRIENDS
IX THE WINTER GARDEN at
Morning Tea, Afternoon Tea or
Theatre Supper—Strawberries and
Cream, Fruit Salads, Ices, Delect-
able Confections and Cool Drinks to
your fancy.
Say or 'Phone Your Requirements,
and our Experts do the rest.
The Manager.
IN THE DINING lIAEE. A EA
CARTE ROOMS or PRIVATE
ROOMS at Eunclieon, Dinner or
Supper. Eatest Music.
■
i
1
II
i
year, 1915-16. Australia should aim first at
being its own Coats and its own many-
other-things, and then out of the War Tax
collected from these giant and drought-proof
concerns it might give a hand to the man
whom importers and land-jobbers have be-
guiled out beyond the Macquarie.
The Political Morality (if any) of
Ryan.
Consider the political morality (if any) of
T. J. Ryan. In Australia the question of
finance is supreme. Ryan and Tudor and
Storey admit this by filling their speeches
and programmes with financial items. There
have been countries where the supreme issues
were the maintenance of Parliament against
a tyrannous king, or the struggle of the
people against a brutal aristocracy, or the
question of negro slavery or of religious free-
dom, but in Australia everything revolves
around money. T. J. Ryan’s whole career
in office was his career as State Premier of
Queensland —as the man who was respon-
sible for the finances and everything else.
The Auditor-General, the supreme and inde-
pendent authority on these matters, has made
a report—the last of a series of annual
reports —which gives the impression that the
loud, boisterous young man from the North
is about the greatest calamity that ever laid
hands on the cash in Australia. Many
Auditors-General have reported on many
Premiers and Prime Ministers, but the
general effect is that the last of them is the
worst of the lot. And, like Lord Fitz Sca-
tterbrain, the Norman-Irish peer and land-
lord of fiction who lived in a tumbledown
castle at Ballyruin, Ryan hasn’t thought it
worth while to seriously protest. The Auditor-
General isn’t an absolutely immovable per-
son. He could have been sacked if the
Queensland Lower House (where Ryan had
a majority) and the Upper House (where he
could make appointments and thus get a
majority) were willing to say that the official
was actuated by malice, or misled by igno-
rance. George Reid, of N. S. Wales, became
desperately angry when Auditor-General
Rennie said much milder things about him.
But Ryan doesn’t seem to regard the
charge of monumental incapacity as
worth being angry about. His position is
that of the engine-driver who, having been
certified as being unfit to be in charge of a
winch, struggles to get control of a passenger
express. Even in politics there have been
men with a conscience who refused to take
a position for which they were assured on
the best authority they were unfit, especi-
ally if it was the kind of position in which
their incapacity might lead to the untold
misery of people who were unable to help
themselves. Ryan’s conscience (if any)
isn't that sort. Despite the best expert
assurance that he is a ruinous financier he
is willing to satisfy his vanity by being more
ruinous than ever and on a bigger scale.
About 27 years ago men not half so reckless
and incapable brought about a crash which
made Australia a place of misery for years
and filled lunatic-asylums and suicides’
graves. The country is in imminent danger
of another and vastly bigger catastrophe of
the same kind.
[James Edmond, 214 George-,street,
Cheap Notes.
Dear Bulletin, —I have a difficulty in un-
derstanding this demand of many Laborites
and financial reformers for Cheap Paper
Money-—in other words, for a vast increase
in the issue of notes beyond all cash security
so as to pay for public works, war expenses
and the like. It is a fact that when there
is much more of any substance offering than
the public really wants —wheat, meat, ships,
horses, land, labor, diamonds, silver, lead,
copper, slaves, sugar, paper money or what
not —there is a glut in the market and prices
go down. If the superfluity is a heavy sort
of thing that can’t be exported profitably,
then the glut in the market where it is pro-
duced is worse. If it is something that is
of no value except in the country of produc-
tion, and can’t be exported at all, the glut
is worse still. Possibly this shouldn’t be,
but the dashed thing is. Judging by the
results of many experiments in many coun-
tries during many years, notes become cheap
like other things if there are more of them
on the market than are really wanted. Some-
times they become so cheap that lib. of meat
will buy 20s. worth of them, whereas before
the glut set in it took 301 b. or 401 b. of meat
to buy 20s. worth. Some people call this
dear meat, but it is really Cheap Notes.
There is no dearth of meat, but there is a
glut of notes. It may be that people should
be grateful for Cheap Notes, but they seem
to be the only cheap substances on earth that
people are not grateful for —barring the
superabundance of the lOU’s of a firm that
looks like going insolvent or the unredeemed
promises of a politician, which are much the
same thing and which also decline in value.
An unusual superabundance of gold also sends
up prices, but not so high as in the case of
an excess of notes. Various reasons for this
occur to me, and there may be others. Gold
can be sent away to any country and sold
there, and there is generally some country
where there is a demand for it, while
notes can’t be sold anywhere except in their
own country—the one where the market is
flat and overcrowded. Superfluous gold can
be used to make jewellery or to decorate
images of saints or as ornaments for Solo-
mon’s temple or as a roof to a church, but
notes can’t. Also, people stow away super-
fluous gold with a blessed conviction, based
on all the experience of history, that no Gov-
ernment will ever repudiate it, whereas there
is hardly a note more than 100 years old that
is worth, a cent. The difference sticks out all
over literature. The “golden dawn” in poetry
and the “golden throne” in Revelation are
familiar, while the paper dawn or the note
throne is never heard of. Superfluous notes
can’t even be salted or frozen, and thus put
away like meat against a year of scarcity, for
once a Government begins to print them
wholesale there never is or can be a year of
scarcity. Cheap Superfluous Notes, in fact,
are the poorest things going—no use for ex-
port, like gold, silver, rabbitskins or unem-
ployed workmen or unmarried females, to
countries where there is a demand ; no use for
any purpose other than the one they were
intended for, unlike gold or silver: not good
as medicine, like ironj not improved by stor-
age, like wine; not worth keeping till the
crop fails, for they are a crop that never
fails; and worse even than carrots in the
matter of repudiation, for no one repudiates
carrots so long as they are good, and the
goats will thrive on them when they are
pretty bad, and at the worst they are
manure which will produce good carrots,
THE FARMER'S FAMILY.
DROUGHT-STRICKEN FARMER: “Sorry there’s nothin’ for you this year. So we’ll just
have a prayer for rain and then you can all go and get work.”
whereas bad paper money used as manure
won’t grow good currency at the rate of
even |d. to the acre. Depreciated notes —
depreciated because fool legislators have
issued more than the market requires with
no security behind them —are not only of
small value themselves, but they depreciate
the notes already in circulation, though these
were previously as good as gold because they
only met a demand and were well secured.
They are the kind of disease that is handed
back to the third and fourth generation—
the only one that is hereditary to the
patient’s ancestors. Australia is full just
now of political charlatans and fools who
preach the cheap-note idea as a cure for all
National diseases. Yet if a bookmaker whom
they didn’t know offered them cheap odds
on an imaginary horse they would probably
be astonished. —Yours, etc., Sou. M.
«
“Pad.jud” : It is tim& light was let in
on the doings of the Radio Department.
There are 22 Commonwealth stations,
and in each of them from £5OO to
£2500 worth of machinery, most of it splen-
didly made and finished, lies rusting to ruin.
Largely it is a legacy from the days of postal
control; but under the alleged efficiency of
the Navy Department the accumulation is
being continually added to. For trifling faul's
machines and instruments are scrapped, and
new ones fitted. Merely because one of
the coils open-circuited, an instrument that
cost £37 to produce was discarded and a new
one ordered and installed. A repair would
have cost £1 at the outside. The machine was
never repaired and still decorates a dusty
shelf. In aii effort, apparently, to justify
the Randwick purchase, large quantities of
machinery, coils, etc., are turned out there,
debited against and forwarded to the various
stations, and never used. For instance, in
two years one station received three instru-
ments of one type—something like buying
fleas for a dog. Once a belt came to a sta-
tion, and, getting caught in a pulley, was
torn off. As usual, a new one was im-
mediately sent out. The damaged one was
never attended to, but mouldered in “spares”
till the station operators, to save it from
absolute waste, chopped it up for boot re-
pairs.
♦
“Malua” : After nearly five years’ hard
scrapping to out the Huns I come back home
to find the Pacific Islands filling with
Chinese. Here in Fiji they are everywhere.
In Suva and Levuka they are numerous;
in the outlying trading centres they have
almost a monopoly. They are to be found
where a white man could not make a living,
and the worst part of a bad business is that
the large wholesale houses seem to prefer
them to white men. The Chow will give a
little more and is always a good pay, and
that is all that counts with our big mer-
chants. The menace to the Empire is a
secondary consideration or no consideration
at all. Here is a typical instance of squeez-
ing out. A white man was trading
in a small way and just making a living
in a sparsely-populated part of the group.
Chinese came along and started a store on
each side of the victim. In a few months
the white was down and oi*. and had to
quit. I don’t know what Australia can do
about it; but I do know that Australia's
future is endangered. It is menaced by a
greater peril than the German invasion of
the Pacific ever constituted.
Mexico, the birthplace of Christianity and
the white man’s civilisation so far as
America is concerned, slides towards its
doom. Some recent straws :
It is estimated that the consumption of oil in
the United States has been so enormous that the
supply is likely to last only 22 years at the pre-
sent rate. If consumption increases at the present
rate 10 years may see the finish. New oil-wells
are being opened in many places, but they are poor
compared with the wonderful finds that John
Stofel and J. C. Williamson and Maggie Moore
and Deacon Skinner made in Pennsylvania when
they “Struck Oil” about the ’sixties. Mexico pro-
duced 12,552,789 barrels of oil in 1911 and
64,605,422 barrels in 1918, so it looks like the
coming land.
Great sympathy is felt In the U.S. for the people
who suffer by the disturbed condition of Mexico. It
was recently reported with tears that owing to
the civil wars 110,000 little Mexicans are homeless,
hatless, hollow in the stomach, fatherless, neglected,
uneducated, unspanked and calling for intervention.
Announced that in 1916 the U.S. general staff
reported that 450,000 men would, be required for
the conquest of Mexico. Nothing done owing to
European complications.
The U.S. Government has demanded the release
of Jenkins. The Mexican Government, such as it
is, refuses to release Jenkins. The basis of this
trouble is hard to understand, it being so far off,
but the name is ominous. There was a war of
Jenkins’s Ear, because Jenkins alleged to the
British House of Commons in 1738 that a Spaniard
had shifted his ear in 1731. The matter was offi-
cially reported on in 1889, so Jenkins’s Ear lasted
158 years. The discovery that this troublesome
character is still alive looks like the writing on the
wall. There is no certain evidence that Jenkins
wasn’t mixed up with the fall of Babylon.
“Matron”: Snowball, of the Vic. Legisla-
tive Assembly, has unreasonable notions con-
cerning the registered nurse who “withholds,
delays, or refuses her services when required
by a medical practitioner.” Snowball would
cancel her registration and fine her £lO or
more for refusing to work, or for attempting
to deter any of her cap-and-aproned sisters
from working, with any doctor who calls for
a nurse to attend a case. In short, a medi-
cal man is not to be boycotted by the
sisterhood, no matter how objectionable a
medical man he may be —objectionable, that
is, for a young woman to be associated with.
According to Snowball, a doctor can
do nothing to earn the dislike of a
nurse. Snowball doesn’t know. A doctor
can act like a satyr when, under pretence
of professional duty, he asks nurse to quit the
patient’s bedside and accompany him into
another room. Snowball; M.L.A., would
debar her of the right to refuse to take a
case where this sort of love-maker is the
medical attendant. His sort may not be
numerous, but he happens here and there in,
the course of a nurse's experience, and is a
matter of common knowledge at the Home
where she boards when not out on duty. Is
it to be a £lO minimum offence for a nurse
to jib at the prospect of working for him?
Is she to be deregistered because his fond
pinches have no charm for her? No class of
women is more free from fads and prejudices
than the professional nurse, and the idea of
them all conspiring to boycott a self-respect-
ing doctor cannot be reasonably advanced as
an excuse for the proposed Snowball clauses
in the Bill.
Gabriel D’Annunzio, of Italy, seems to be
losing the limelight. He still holds Fiume
with his rebel host, and threatens to annex
Dalmatia, and talks of releasing Montenegro
from the Slav yoke, which is much the same
as releasing France from the French. But
the Italian elections diverted attention from
him, and he is rather posing and raving in
solitude now. Very soon, if the supply of
paragraphs is cut off, he may be reduced to
going home to see his publisher about getting
out another book.
“Phthisis”: Curious how the ideas of the
Red Cross as to what is proper treatment
for consumptive soldiers vary in the dif-
ferent States. In N. S. Wales there are
homes, most efficiently managed by the Red
Cross itself, at Randwick, Wentworth. Falls,
Kurringai and Leura, and a farm-colony for
convalescents is coming. The society has just
had a stand-up fight over the Randwick site
and insisted on incurables being in a popu-
lous centre so as to be easily accessible to
friends, and pointed out how unthinkable it
was that soldier-consianptives should be
handed over to the tender mercies of the
State. Now turn to Westralia. Here the
Red Cross has no homes at all for consump-
tives. _ Once they were accommodated at
Menzies, on the Mount’s Bay-road, Perth;
but that was discontinued long ago. Now all
grades—light, chronic and incurable—have
been handed over to the State, and are
housed in a wing of the public institution at
Wooroloo, 40 miles from Perth, 52 from
Fremantle, with one train a day; fares from
about ss. upwards., and a two-mile walk (or
2s. more) from the station. It is said that
discipline amongst the tubercular Digger's
in the West has been bad. This is denied.
But what would be expected in N. S. Wales
if the Red Cross homes were closed and all
the military sufferers went to the State
sanatorium at Waterfall?
“Prisoner’s Friend”: Father O’Donnell
seems to have had the court-martial of the
war. At the taking of the Summary he
claimed to have raked the hostile witnesses
fore and aft. I have been present on many
such occasions, and invariably if the prisoner
interrupted he was invited to “cut it out”
and say anything he had to say later. The
O’Donnell trial was held at Guildhall, so
that the public might be accommodated.
Nominally all C’s.-M. are open to the public.
At Lark Hill and in France, however, any
curious Digger, much less any civilian, who
attempted to push in to one would have been
briskly pushed out again. The system was
to march the victim into an Armstrong or
Nissen Hut or other enclosed place and
shut the door. Inside were the Court and
a few clerks. The Courts were shaky on
Law, Procedure, the Rules of Evidence and
all else, and didn’t want the calamity ex-
posed. According to an early cable, the
O’Donnell case ended with the ominous an-
nouncement : “The decision will be promul-
gated.” This, if correct, would have sig-
nified a conviction. But a later cable men-
tioned an acquittal and “uproarious cheer-
ing” in court. No Digger was ever cheered
on acquittal in my experience. A head was
thrust round a door; a finger beckoned : the
prisoner rose from where he sat amiably
chatting with his guards; his hat was hur-
riedly dragged from his head; and he took
his place, standing more or less at atten-
tion. before his judges. A few muttered
words. A violent start of surprise. A howl
of “Er-howtern ! Qui mar!" from the n.c.o.
in charge of the guard. And he was free.


“The production of more wealth, the develop-
ment of our resources, the diversification and
amplification of our existing industries and the
creation of new industries, would at once provide
employment for the people and enable the com-
munity to bear the tremendous burden which the
war has imposed upon us.”
—Mr. Hughes, at Tarcoola.
If all the Iron and Steel Products imported into
Australia were made by our own people, work
v/ould be given to not less than 30,000 men, who
would earn more than £5,000,000 per annum.
EVERY TRUE AUSTRALIAN CAN HELP
by insisting that Australian Iron and Steel, the finest in the world, be
used in everything wherein he has an interest.
AUSTRALIAN IRON and STEEL for ALL AUSTRALIANS.
POLITICAL
POINTS
J. 11. Catts, sub-director of the Labor
campaign in N. S. Wales, had told his
audience about the millions and millions
that had been profiteered from the people,
“What are people going to do?” asked a
woman. “Make demonstrations and at the
ballot-box give an overwhelming vote against
the Government,” replied candidate Catts.
In other words, put back into office the
party that was in office in 1904, again in
190 S-09, again in 11)10-13 and again in 1914-
17, and, incidentally, vote “No” on the
referendum and thus refuse to give it any
more power to deal with profiteers than it
had on the previous four occasions.
Naturally Catts doesn’t say what the party
will do ip these circumstances ; but a good
many of the old leaders having been pushed
out, there should be a better chance of a
portfolio for Catts.
After 25 years’ experience as an M.L.A.,
Prendergast, Vic. Opposition leader, de-
clared last week that he never saw so little
interest manifested in the doings of the
House by members themselves. The mem-
bers who seek refuge in the precincts say that
never were the proceedings less interesting.
The fact is members spend all their energy
in getting in. Performance when the
objective is reached doesn’t matter. Indeed,
re-election depends on the hold they get on
the party machine; and the more subservient
they are to party leaders the better their
performance, so far as the machine is con-
cerned.
Millen announces that “the back of the
Repatriation problem has been broken.” It
may be true that a majority of the Diggers
have got to work; but that doesn’t „olve the
toughest problem, which concerns the employ-
ment of the partially-disabled and the men
who threaten to become unemployable in
the ordinary sense. The Red Cross is putting
a number of these men to basket-making ; and
that suggests a way out. A study of the
tables of imports would show lines which
might be collared wholly or almost wholly:
in connection with basket-making, for in-
stance, there is the production of the raw
materials to give varied employment. The
country might have to pay a trifle more
for goods of which the Repat. might hold a
monopoly; but the men whom the lines would
support will have to be maintained in any
case. And the longer they are kept idle
the less likely many of them will be to ever
be self-supporting and productive again.
Premier Theodore, who is Ryan’s heir, has
announced at Cairns, where tiie unemployed
aren’t so loud as in the capital, so that he
has a chance to hear himself speak, that
“the future holds little hope.” He alleges
that even a preliminary glance at the figures
leads him to expect a shortage of £1,500,000
in the accounts. As his Government has
already run up taxation from 28s. 2d. per
inhabitant per annum to 80s. 9d., the highest
figure in the Commonwealth, and it would
be necessary to make it about 1255. to cover
the gap, there certainly isn’t much of a pros-
pect—unless the whole system of government
is altered. That done, the future of Queens-
land is not hopeless. The revenue hasn’t
dropped as it did in those gloomy days in
Victoria when the land boom, loan boom, and
the banks burst all at once, and the pub-
lic income dropped like a stone from over
9 millions to 64 millions, and George
Turner and Isaac Isaacs took the helm and
steered the ship through. Queensland’s in-
come is bigger than it ever was before;
almost exactly £1,000.000 more last year
(to June, 1919) than it was the year before,
and almost exactly twice as much as it
was 10 years ago. Even a very medium
financier of the Dibbs or Parkes or Dickson
or Mcllwraith type might well think himself
in the seventh heaven of affluence with the
money to spend which is at Theodore’s dis-
posal. But they wouldn’t pose at Moses
leading the Miserabaelites out of the Egypt
of Work to a land where there would be
short hours and little done in those hours.
To a large extent the report of Lyell, Gib-
son and Swinburne, Vic. Electricity Com-
missioners, recommending an expenditure of
nearly £3,(400,000 on the development of the
Morwell brown coalfield as a State proposi-
tion for the supply of current in bulk, is
an echo of the recommendation made in
1917 by Herman, Stone, Clements and
Harper, the advisory board of that day.
Merz, the British consulting-engineer, en-
dorses the scheme, but he says the cost of
the Morwell power-station has been under-
estimated. by 25 per cent. Arthur Robinson,
Attorney-General, promises to expedite the
adoption of the report by having a bill put
through authorising a progress loan of half
a million or so. Incidentally, it is proposed
to develop by-products of brown coal and
make briquettes. All this, when carried out
(two years is the time calculated, if they go
quickly), will mean that Vic. will want
about 450,000 tons of coal less a year from
N. S. Wales. Lest the man who uses elec-
tricity for light and room-warming may be
expecting any benefit, he is warned right
off that there is nothing in the scheme for
him. It is a cheap-power project, based
mainly on the assumption that brown coal
will be mined at 2s. 3d. a ton.
[Ted Colles, Old Exchange, Collins-street, Melbourne.!
HIGH AND DRY.
“Mr Hughes had a few strenuous meetings in Victoria, and interjections re profiteering were fre-
quent. At the liveliest meeting of all women were the chief interrupters.” —News item.
THE GENTLEMAN : “You see, the position is this”
THE LADY : “I know what the position is all right. The point is how are you going to
get me home safe and comfortable again?”
S. Aus. has hardly started to feel the effect
of high interest rates on new loans floated
to repay old ones; yet already, though the
amount owing per head of population has in-
creased only 22 p.c. in five years, the, inter-
est payable has increased 47 p.c. In the
next five years, even if not a penny of new
money is borrowed, £11,575,000 will have
to be found somewhere to meet lOU’s fall-
ing due; and if that lot costs only an average
2 p.c. more, it means putting about 15 p.c.
on to the above-mentioned increase of 47
p.c. in the interest burden. But, of course,
there isn’t any thought of leaving off borrow-
ing. When this mere handful of people
doesn’t go about £2,000,000 further into
debt in a year it begins to think that it is
throwing away its chances. And as most
of the money goes, as usual, into railways
at the back of Beyond, the expenditure
means not only increased interest but in-
creased taxation. (The S.A. railways aver-
aged £5 17s. lOd. p.c. on capital cost in the
three years 1910-13 and only £3 Is. 3d. p.c.
in the" past three years.) But because th >
S.A. Government, like others, has been try-
ing to camouflage the position, not enough
extra taxation has been imposed to counter-
balance the drift, with the result that, where-
as in each of the 12 years prior to 1914 a
surplus was shown, the net deficiency in the
past five years lias been £1,348.386. That is
the extent to which S. Aus. has loafed an pos-
terity for its actual bread-and-butter during
the past five years; and then the Premier
had the sublime assurance to talk in his
Budget speech about the Government’s and
the State’s “manly resolution”!
Thus T. R. Bavin, a N. S. Wales M.L.A.,
in Sydney Telegraph (29/11/T9) :
No opportunity of making a protest is available
to me in the House, unless I am prepared to sit up
all night for the purpose of making it. I cannot do
this, as I am compelled to earn my living during
the day.
Of course all-night sittings are idiotic in a
community which mostly works by day. They
are as injurious as all-day sittings would ap-
pear to an actor —or a night-watchman. But
in Bavin’s typical case, if Parliament sat
all day he would either have to remain in
and face ruin himself or go out and let
the country be unsaved. As a compromise
he toils by day as much as he can, and legis-
lates by night as much as his day-job will
let him. And. though the arrangement is
wholly unsatisfactory, he isn’t really to
blame, because the salary offered won’t let
him think of making even a temporary pro-
fession of politics. If Australia had only
a quarter as many Members of Parliament
it could afford to pay each of them twice
as much; then, with Ministers out of Par-
liament, as in the U.S.A.. and with, a few
other improvements effected, legislators
might sit by day and do their job thoroughly.
liyan escaped just in time. Fihelly, who
shared the glories of the boom with Joseph,
and has been left behind to deal with the
disillusioned unemployed, has just been in-
formed by resolution that, as he didn’t go
voluntarily, “the working-men of Brisbane”
propose to push him out.
The Northern Territory gets its politics
from Queensland, and having sacked its
Government it became a Ryan country with-
out even the restraining influence of Ryan,
who at least had his billet to consider. It
takes about four weeks now to load a moder-
ate-sized vessel with meat, half the men
working under no supervision, while the
other half rest under the same thing, the
pay for both halves being £7 10s. a week and
17s. 6d. per hour overtime. The Territory’s
one big industry is Vestey’s freezing works,
which are the principal source of revenue to
both the railway and the port, and if they
cease work owing to too much revolution ana
chaos and stoppage Darwin is likely to shut
till the transcontinental line is finished, and
supplies new people, new ideas and new out-
lets. The leaders of the Tom Walsh kind
create no industries and don’t even advocate
the creation of any, their policy being go-
slow (which is less production) and strike
(which is no production at all). So men lie
uncomfortably on a hard wharf in a bad
temper as a sacrifice to principle, and insects
crawl on them.
Apropos Holman’s recent greasy remark
about the wisdom of Governors, Galway, of
S. Aus., raises the question whether they
shouldn’t be muzzled on landing. Two or
three times, he says, he tried to be honest,
and there was such a row that “by and bye
I may come back to Australia and express
my real opinions.” Meanwhile, it is to be
understood, he gives the force of his posi-
tion to statements that don’t express his
“real opinions” at all. The Governor busi-
ness has grown increasingly ridiculous. It
seems that there is some dishonesty about
it, too.
The long-promised direct railway from
the Wimmera wheat country to Portland,
its natural seaport, is again indefinitely
hung up. About five miles of rails have
lately been laid towards Balmoral from the
Cavendish end, leaving a gap of about
miles. Now the construction-camp has been
broken up and the plant removed to re-
moter lines under construction, which will
lead to Melbourne. Meanwhile Melbourne is
so blocked that the mix-up of inward anti
“outward” goods causes delays, often ot
weeks. And, of course, that all helps tlv'
high cost of living. Actually, it is the high
cost of stupidity.
A soldiers’ party would be just as dis-
honest as any other party—-if it pretended
to all think alike. S. Aus. Assembly in-
cludes two Diggers, Blackburn, who did a
lot of fighting and won a Y.C., and Denny,
who did a little and got an M.C. Lately
there was before their Parliament a bill to
expedite the settlement of soldiers on the
land; and the two are in apparently bone-
less conflict over it. Blackburn put up with
what he didn’t like because he wouldn t risk
losing everything in the House of Big Hand-
lords ; Denny says the Landlords should
have been fought. And there you get a
cleavage which has divided men ever, since
politics were invented, and is as marked
among soldiers as among the crowd in ernes.
Thus Senator Barker (Stephen Barker,
J.P., of other days) •
The Government could have fixed the tariff so as
to prevent Japan pouring millions of pounds worth
of cheap and shoddy goods into AuKtalia. ■
Government had the majority and could pass anj
legislation, but did not do so because it was a 1 ree
trade Government. . ~
Instead of “Freetrade” put “fiscal-sinking
and the charge applies with literal exactness
to Senator Barker’s own Labor party or
1914. But while Barker and his mates ex-
claim against the Government they don’t
pledge themselves to build a high tariff, and
that’s chiefly because, though it would pro-
vide plentiful work for returned soldiers and
other workers, it might incidentally put an
extra pound or two into the pockets of Aus-
tralian manufacturers.
As the Lawson Ministry did not shed
Treasurer McPherson after his speech
trouncing Peacock, the Age now invites
McPherson to shed the Ministry. But he
sits tight, notinsr how different are the devi-
ous paths of politics from the short cuts he
takes to reach objectives in his own big
business.
From the Sydney Telegraph’s go-on-the-
land column :
In normal seasons Inverell is one of the choice spots
of N. S. Wales Four successive crop failures have
left the farmers in a worse nosition each year, until
now the majority of them have reached the end ol
their tether.
It almost seems as if the abnormal years
were more normal than the normal ones. At
least the eight-year-old kiddy with half his
life spent amid drought may feel that way.
[James Edmond and J. B. Dailey, 214 George-
street, Sydney; and Edmund Fisher, Old Exchange,
Melbourne. ]
TAKING COVER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There is a human impulse that
Impels all men to kick a hat.
You see it lying in the yard,
You can’t resist to kick it hard.
If it’s about the street by day,
You haste to punt it on your way.
One hat alone the kick escapes—
No man will kick the khaki shapes.
And so, now that the time begins
When M’s.P. shiver for their sins,
The politician falls down flat
In worship of the old felt hat.
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.
A LIMITED MONARCH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Unto a polling-booth I’ll make my way,
As fits a freeman, on election day.
A stump of pencil clutched within my hand
Will be my sceptre—l will rule the land!
For one brief day I’ll swank like any king ;
Then be for three long years a nameless thing!
But in my hour of kingship I can make
Unfettered choice between a fraud arid fake.
Mv noble .task to thrill me cannot fail—
’Tis mine to say if I will tread the trail
That leads to chaos and insolvency
Guided by Tweedledum or Tweedledee !
[Written, without consulting anybody, to exnress
his own disgust with things in general, by Harrison
Owen, 75 Glenhuntlv-road, Elwood, four doors from
the drain and' opposite the Methodist Sunday-school.]


IN NO MAN’S LAND.
THE DIGGER: “A very good camouflage, Mr. Ryan. But, somehow, it only reminds us of another old friend of ours.”


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
Registered
BHAS
Brand.
Producers of Lead in the following forms —■
Refined Lead, Corroding: Lead, Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated),
Super-refined Lead, Chemical Lead.
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated), Spelter,
and the following Alloys and Metallic Products
Antimonial Lead, Linotype Metal, Litharge (Industrial and Assay),
Bearing Metals, Leaded Zinc Pigments, Blue Powder.
Purchasers on a Specially Favorable Tariff of.Silicious Silver-Lead Ores, Slagfs, etc.,
containing Silver and Lead. Lead Drosses. Zinc Drosses.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE—
H. L. SHACKELL. Secretary.
LONDON OFFICE: PINNERS HALL. AUSTIN FRIARS, E.C: 2
A. .1. SMITH. London Secretary.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY—
R. N. KIRK (Agent).
ADELAIDE OFFICE: 62 BROOKMAN’S BUILDING, ADELAIDE—
C. S. STOKES (Agent).
SMELTING WORKS. PORT PIRIE, S.A.
COKE "WORKS. BELLAMBI. N.S.W. _^
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Moderate Charges.
Economical Management.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE Company (Ltd.)
Specially Qualified by Act of Parliament' to act as
TRUSTEE, EXECUTOR, ADMINISTRATOR, ATTORNEY
UNDER POWER, AGENT, ETC.
TRUST FUNDS UNDER THE COMPANY’S CONTROL EXCEED £15,000,000.
Booklet on Application. Undoubted Security.
33 to 39 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Manager.
R. L. MASSIE, Secretary.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
National Bank of Australasia, from
the time it amalgamated with the Colonial
Bank :
Divs. Written To Re- Re-
Profits. (8 p.c.) ' . off. serves. serves.
Mar., ’l9 £145,099 £78,789 £lO,OOO £56,310 £1,130,234
Sept., ’l9 145,625 80,000 10,000 55,625 1,185,809
Paid capital is two millions —62,000 £lO
fully-paid prefs. and 276,000 £8 ordinaries
paid to £5. The dividend distributions are
not shown separately in the table, for both
classes of shareholders are receiving 8 p.c.,
and, under the agreement on which the old
banks amalgamated, when the prefs. have
had six consecutive half-yearly divs. at that
rate they will surrender their preference
rights. Things would have to go very badly
if the directors could not manage that, for
there were net profits amounting to £55,(525
in excess of the dividend requirements for the
past half-year. It is now just over a year since
the amalgamation was effected, and already
better results are showing up. Combining
the figures of the old banks for purposes of
comparison, this expansion is visible: —
Sept, half-year,
'1914. 1918. 1919.
Gross profits .. .. £263,471 £305,651 £347,787
Expenses.. .. .. 144,174 185,064 202,162
Written off .. . . 5,000 5,000 10,000
Net profits .. .. £114,297 £115,587 £135,625
The big improvement shown for the past 12
months may not be due so much to the amal-
gamation as to the fact that war troubles
have cleared and the management feels that
it can safely disclose a little more. During
Wilhelm’s candidature for the managing-
directorship of the world, financial institu-
tions very properly made more than usual
provision to protect their securities. The
big slump in disclosed earnings in many
banks, which, despite the disturbance of ex-
change business, were to all appearances in
a position to at least maintain their pre-
war level of profits, provides a hint of the
extent these managements were preparing
for contingencies. And since there have been
no bumps, it can be definitely stated that
Australian banks now stand in a compara-
tively stronger position than they did befoie
the war.
The following comparison of the grouped
balance-sheet figures shows how the National
has grown (the 1914 and 1918 entries, of
course, combining the figures of the two old
banks) : —■
Liabilities.
Sept., T 4. Sept.,’lB. Sept.,’l9.
Notes .. .. £57,404 £50,335 £49,950
Bills, etc 807,008 1,259,133 1,011,895
Free deposits . . 5,862,548 7,287,579 9,429,760
Deposits at interest 8,616,353 10,401,826 10,996,912
Assets.
Liquid assets .. 5,195,374 6,481,033 8,417,965
Advances . . . . 12,319,673 15,032,906 15,709,093
Premises, etc. .. 020,022 565,785 627,319
The increase in deposits by nearly six mil-
lions is one very good reason why the
National is better placed to earn larger profits
than the two old banks could earn together
five years ago. In addition, since then
£62,500 of fresh capital has been got in, and
visible reserves have expanded by £401,417.
Of the additional money placed in the bank’s
care and its own new funds, approximately
£3,200,000 has gone into more or less liquid
assets, while £3,400,000 has been put out in
advances, which are not only a better lot
than they were previously, because they in-
clude considerable War Loan accommodation
to customers and Government-guaranteed fin*
ancing for the produce pools, but advances
of a speculative character have been given a
very cold eye since 1914. The liquid assets
have also changed in character, and are com-
paratively much more profitable to the bank
than former accumulations were :
1914. 1919.
Coin, bullion, Australian notes,
cash and short-call money £3,621,459 £3,695,397
Government securities, etc. . . 686,310 2,711,102
Bills, notes of other banks and
balances due by other banks 887,605 2,011,466
The National thus has £3,400,000 more ad-
vances and over two millions more in public
securities earning interest.
All these changes which have occurred dur-
ing the war period . show that the new
National has better classes of assets to protect
its depositors than the two old banks. That
is provided all goes well with the Common-
wealth, for if every bank’s balance-sheet- -is
held to the light the watermark of war still
shows up behind its figures. The effect of the
Commonwealth Government’s unduly heavy
dependence on loans to finance, the war, the
consequent inflation of the currency and
other troubles are all visible. The war is
finished with, but so far we have not com-
menced to straighten things out. Two poli-
tical parties are seeking that job ; one which
created and aggravated the financial difficul-
ties of war and now promises a pick-me-up,
and another party, led by an ex-State Pre-
mier who out-jagged Holman at his worst,
which suggests as a cure a new and un-
limited carousal on paper money. If the pre-
sent inflated note-issue of 55£ millions is to
be ultimately redeemed £ for £ at its face
value, there is no doubt as to which crowd
should be placed in charge of the national
cash-box.
And, providing all goes well, this is how
the National can face its creditors: for every
£1 it owes it can produce 7s. lOd. in cash.
Government notes, Government .securities,
etc.; 14s. 7d. of advances, which are a
healthier lot than they used to be; and a
further 7d. in premises, etc. —altogether 235.
of assets for every £1 it owes. Thus the
assets in the aggregate would have to depre-
ciate by over 13 p.c. before the National had
to deny depositors or other customers a full
20s. in the £.
The Commercial Bank of Tasmania:—
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Prcfits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
I- eb., ’l2 . .17,941 14 p.c.=12,862 5,079 209,965
Aug., ’12.-17,221 14 „ ~12,862 4,359 214,324
Feb., ’l3. .17,987 14 „ ~12,862 5,125 219,449
Aug., ’13.. 18,071 14 „ ~12,862 5,209 224,658
Premiums on new shares . . 25,000 249,658
Feb., ’l4. .19,931 14 p.c.=14,700 5,231 254,889
Aug., ’14..18,188 14 ~ ~14,700 3,488 258,377
Feb., ’15..19,743 14 „ ~14,700 5,043 263,420
Aug., ’15..17,426 14 ~ ~14,700 2,726 266,146
Feb., ’16..20,375 14 „ ~14,700 4200 1,475 267,621
Aug., ’16..17,837 14 „ ~14,700 3,137 270,758
Feb., ’17..20,516 1 i ~ ..14,700 4200 1,616 272,374
Aug., ’17.. 19,679 14 „ ~14,700 4,979 277,353
Feb., ’18..20,750 14 „ ~14,840 5,910 283,263
Aug.,’lB. .25,650 14 ~ ~14,840 5000 5,810.289,073
Feb'., ’l9. .19,797 14 „ ~14,840 4,957 294,030
Reserves capitalised . . 100,006 194,030
Aug., ’19.. 21,539 10 p,c.=15,900 5,639 199,660
This is the second oldest, yet one of the
smallest, banks in the Commonwealth. But
in its old age it has become daring; six
months ago it created a precedent which such
concerns as the Union and ’Asia now regret
they had not the pluck to lay down
long ago. For some time shareholders
in the old banks which have large reserves
in proportion to paid capital, and which
have been paying rates of dividends that look
high, but are really mild in proportion to
proprietors’ funds, have been pressing their
directors to adopt some scheme to make the
rates of dividends less liable to be misunder-
stood by Bolsheviks and others. And in-
variably the answer has been given that “the
directors will consider the matter,” and it
has ended there; though, from a London
cable of a few days ago, the Bank of
Australasia directors appear to have de-
cided to seek power to capitalise re-
serves. The Speck’s Commercial Bank,.
however, ventured boldly, and capital-
ised £lOO,OOO of the £294,000 of reserves it
had taken 86 years to accumulate. The
Bulletin can find no record of a previous
issue of bonus capital by an Australian bank.
Though any excess of assets over liabilities
legally belongs to shareholders, and would
be distributed among them in the event of
winding up or of purchase by another bank,
it has been the custom to pile up reserves
and keep them intact, in the hope that if the
worst happens they will be ample to meet
liabilities without having to cut into capital.
Still it does not matter to the creditor
whether the protection for his money is in
the form of capital or reserves. The tacking
of £lOO,OOO accumulated profits to capital
has not made the Commercial of Tas. a
penny the weaker so far as its depositors
are concerned, except that formerly they had
the protection of reserves and a share-lia-
bility, whereas some of the latter has now
been wiped out. On the other hand, the
£lOO,OOO is now tied up in such a way that
even a Board of Bolshies could not get it
out, while ordinary reserves can be with-
drawn and distributed without much diffi-
culty. The shares of the Tas. Commercial
were formerly paid to £2 10s., but the bonus
adds a further 255., reducing the liability to
255. per share. Instead of the former 14
p.c. div. the directors are now paying 10
p.c., which calls for £lOOO more than the old
rate, the Treasury also asking £6O more by
way of dividend tax. As the table shows,
there is still a wide margin between profits
and the increased distributions.
The Bank is operating in a very limited
field, and while the Island State has not
bounded ahead like the mainland, the larger,
impressive banks have been hustling with it
for business. Consequently the balance-
sheet figures have not expanded rapidly, as
this comparison, going back to the Commer-
cial’s 50th birthday, shows: —
Dec.,1882. Aug.,1914. Aug.,1919.
Notes .. .. £81,261 £5,440 £3,737
Deposits, etc. . . 1,249,426 1,865,370 2,248,427
Liquid assets . . 476,813 698,887 1,060,345
Advances, etc. .. 1,047,444 1,587,478 1,644,443
Premises . . . . 15,666 57,521 62,945
Though small, it is a strong bank from the
point of view of its creditors/ It has £1
of its own money in the business for every
£4 10s. of the public’s, and of its total lia-
bilities 4? p.c. is held in liquid form. To
meet the £1,191.819 of liabilities not repre-
sented by liquid assets, it has £1,644.443 of
advances, etc., and owns premises which are
given a book value of £62,945 ; besides which
there may be resources that do not meet the
eye.
Barnet Glass Rubber Co., Ltd.: —
, Dividends. ■,
Pref. To Re- lte-
June, Profits. Bp.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
1909. . £4,087 £844 Hi p.c.= £1,562 £1,681 £1,241
1910.. 4,981 1267 124 „ „ 2,187 1,527 2,768
1911.. 3,456 2250 4 „ „ 900 306 3,074
1912.. 8,677 3470 10 „ „ 2,250 2,957 6,031
1913.. 11,015 4081 124 „2,812 4,122 10,153
April,
1914. 8,790 3467 124 „ „ 2,344 2,979 13,132
Deficit.
Co. reconstructed ; £22,500 in new
June, shares issued for goodwill- .. 9,368
1915.. 19,603 4200 8 p.c. = 7,782 7,621 1,747
Reserves.
1916.. 45,099 4200 154 „ „ 14,248 26,651 24,904
1917.. 26,284 4200 104 „ „ 12,800 9,284 34,188
1918.. 48,153 4200 13 „ „ 17,687 26,266 60,454
Provision for taxes, £7500 .. 52,954
Deficit.
Reserves capitalised, £73,750 . . 20,796
Additional goodwill item, £3958 . . 24,754
1919.. 32,686 6114 8 p.c. = 14,526 12,046 12,708
This belated table is dropped in chiefly for
purposes of record. Engineering and ship-
ping strikes, a fire, ’flu and a flood (which
did considerable damage not covered by in-
surance) put a brake on the co.’s wonderful
run. Nevertheless, after paying good divs.
on a much enlarged capital (not overlook-
ing the bonus issue) substantial surplus pro-
fit was still available for strengthening re-
serves. This rubber-manufacturing concern
showed phenomenal expansion after the war
provided the Protection the industry badly
needed. Paid capital six years ago was
£75,000; it is now £*147,573, £22,500 of which
represents shares issued for goodwill when
the co. reconstructed in 1914, and £73,750
reserves capitalised early this year. Since
1913 gross profit has grown from £44,569 to
£141,230—a hint of what extension of our
manufacturing industries means to the Com-
monwealth. The growth of the business has
been so rapid that, despite all the fresh capi-
tal got in, liabilities continue to expand.
This comparison goes back to the balance fol-
lowing upon the reconstruction :
1915. 1917. 1918. 1919.
Liabilities .. £46,076 £113,984 £138,212 £202,294
Freeholds . . 21,297 33,194 30,702 36,450
Plant, etc. .. 36,942 53,432 58,969 65,227
Book debts . . 49,918 69,322 81,443 75,471
Stock.. .. 74,591 181,845. 222,239 362,580
Cash, etc. . .. 8,789 6,600 10,993 10,296
Since 1915, shareholders have put up
£131,872, but the management has mean-
time had to increase its indebtedness by
£156,218. Against this extra £288,090 in the
business, stocks have increased by £287,989,
. while the additions to cash assets and the
extra stocks more than account for the in-
creased liability to shareholders and credi-
tors. It means that the £43,438 which has
been added to the book value of fixed assets
and the further £25,553 due to the co. by
sundry creditors —together approximately
£6B,ooo—represent the visible improvement
in the co.’s position in four years after pay-
ing £77,975 in divs. It is a very fine record.
*■ * * *
Troubles are piling on the young Farmers
and Graziers’ Co-op. Grain, Insurance and
Agency Co., Ltd., which is the first attempt
on a very big scale to induce N. S. Wales
wheat and wool men to become co-operators.
Unfortunately the concern is run by people
who apparently did not realise the dangers
of acquiring huge liabilities before they knew
definitely whether they could rope in a suffi-
cient number of shareholders or build up a
turnover large enough to carry the load.
Some time ago the directors thought that it
would pay to purchase a ready-made wool
organisation, so John Bridge’s N. S. Wales
business was taken over, £24,100 being paid
for goodwill. The Bulletin has already
shown that, considering all the circumstances,
the purchase was not justified. Lately, both
the co-op. and vendor cos. have been in the
Courts seeking an injunction to restrain
Bridge’s wool manager, Clarence Bridge,
from continuing in the service of Hill. Clark
and Co. in a similar capacity. The Equity
Court the other day decided that the old
agreement under which Clarence Bridge was
not to enter the service of any other wool
firm for a period of 10 years after leaving
Bridge and Co. w r as “too wide,” that “the
restrictive period was larger than was rea-
sonably required.” and that “the defendant
was, therefore, entitled to treat the agree-
ment as a scrap of paper.” If this decision
holds good, .where is the value of the good-
will the co-op. concern purchased? Bur-
dened with heavy liabilities —a couple of
months ago there was not more than £60,000
of shareholders’ funds, while there was appa-
rently an excess of liabilities over liquid
assets amounting to approximately ±I26,UUU
—the F. and G. Co-op.’s greatest present
trouble is drought. It could not have come
at a more inconvenient time for the co., not
only because the prospective volume of busi-
ness is poor, but also because when the coun-
try is dry and being drained of its loose cash
the chances of roping in shareholders are not
bright. The troubles experienced by insur-
ance cos. in writing back-country policies in
lean years hint at the difficulties immediately
ahead of this co. Wherefore the excess of
liabilities over liquid assets now looks even
less pleasant than it did a couple of months
ago, despite the “phenomenal successes”
which the directors report concerning recent
yardings of livestock at Homebush.
* * * *
Shareholders in Harrison, Jones and
Devlin, Ltd., recorded a two-to-one vote in
favor of the capitalisation scheme proposed
by the directors, but as a three-fourths
majority was necessary to amend the
Articles, the proposal was counted out. lor
which the directors are, no doubt, duly
thankful; for since shareholders were first
consulted on the matter counsel has ex-
pressed a doubt as to the legality of the sug-
gested distribution. So, to prevent any pos-
sibility of litigation, “which, in addition to
being very costly, would not be in the gen-
eral interests of the c 0.,” the directors have
abandoned the scheme. As the management
can find no use for the uncalled “B” capital
if got in, apparently the only way to clear
the track for a capitalisation of reserves is
that already suggested by The Bulletin:
get the shareholders to agree to wipe out
the uncalled liability on the “B” shares.
The housing and domestic-help problems
are so acute in Brisbane that some people
think they see an opportunity to introduce
the modern residential flat to the northern
capital. A site overlooking the Botanical
Gardens has been secured, apparently at a
cost of about £9OOO, and an outlay of
£43,000 is contemplated to erect a building
containing 48 pens. To finance this scheme,
Gardens Residential Flats, Ltd., has been
floated with a nominal capital of ±IOO,DUG,
in £1 shares, 1350 fully-paids being issued to
the vendors and 50,000 shares being ottered
to the public for a start. The promoters
reckon they can see 10 to 12i p.c. divs. ahead
after providing fully for depreciation, etc.
* * * *
Wickham and Bullock Island Coal
Co. (N.S.W.)
v Nom-
—Dividends > Writ- inai
Pro- Prefs. Ordin- ten Re-
fits.(l24p.c.) aries. Off. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Sept., ’13.. 11,650 1250 121 p.c.= 5609 3216 5,534*
Mar., ’14.. 11,448 1250 12i „ „ 5625 3283 6,824
Sept. ’14.. 8,093 1250 Nil 3290 10,377
Mar.,’ ’15.. 719 1250 Nil 3178 6,665
Sept ’15.. 12,228 1250 10 p.c.= 4500 3922 9,224
Mar., ’16.. 6,665 1250 10 „ „ 4500 2467 7,572
Sept., ’16.. 9,164 1250 10 „ „ 4500 2650 8,336
Mar., ’17.. 7,595 1250 10 „ „ 4500 3215 6,960
Sept., ’17.. 6,059 1250 5 „ „ 2250 2559 6,966
Mar., ’lB.. 9,590 1250 10 ~ „ 4500 3190 7,616
Sept., ’lB.. 8,812 1250 10 „ „ 4500 3062 7,616
Mar., ’19.. 4,666 1250 6 „ „ 2700 716 7,616
Sept., ’19.. 8,861 1250 8 „ „ 3600 4011 7,616
This is one of the cos. working the Greta
seam at Maitland, the field where, coal
Commissioner Campbell declared, the in-
crease of wages by the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment by War Precautions regulations
was “unwarranted by anything in the exist-
ing Situation considered merely from an in-
dustrial or economic standpoint.” The Wick-
ham and Bullock Island disclosed profits, how-
ever, do not help to confirm the finding,
but that may be because the co. during the
past few years has been doing much dead-
work developing new properties. The Neath
colliery has been outputting coal during the
w r hole of the period covered by the inquiry,
but the Cessnock started production only
last year, while the new mine at Kalingo has
not been yet brought to the producing stage.
This much, however, is visible from the pub-
lished accounts: capital has remained sta-
tionary for many years, but since March,
1916. the surplus of more or less liquid
assets over liabilities has moved in this way:
Mar., ’l6. Sept., ’l9.
Liquid assets . . . . £40,797 £60,786
Liabilities .. .. 3,065 7,483
£37,732 £53,303
Practically the whole of that improvement
of £15,571 is represented by the expansion
of cash assets. So, in the 34 years since
1916, besides maintaining the Neath col-
liery, the Cessnock property has been
acquired, developed and brought to the pro-
ducing stage, the Kalingo property has been
purchased and is at present being got ready
for production. 124 p.c. divs. have been
paid to the prefs. and an average of 84
p.c. to the ordinaries, and meantime £15,571
has been tacked to cash assets. That puts
a rosier complexion on the Wickham and
Bullock Island Co.’s operations than does the
first table. Still all these figures do not
explain what happened when prices were in-
creased to an extent supposed merely to


Wolfram, Scheelite
and Molybdenite.
PRICES AT PRODUCING CENTRES:
MOLYBDENITE:
85 per cent, or over, 100/- for each
unit MOS 2.
WOLFRAM AND SCHEELITE.
65 per cent, or over, 52/6 for each
unit WO3.
Enquiries Invited relative to
LOWER GRADES of the above
Minerals.
DALCETY 8 CO. LTD.,
Commonwealth Government Agents.
The Pacific Cable Board
BEST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, etc.
A “WEEK-END” rate is now available
from Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada, also for the United States of
America. to be posted from Canada.
WEEK-END messages are; accepted up to
midnight on Saturday for delivery in Great
Britain and Canada on the following
Mondav morning
TARIFF I’ER WORD “via PACIFIC.”
Daily
Ordinary. Deferred. Week-end.
Gt. Britain .. 3/-
Kew Zealand.. 4ld.
1/6
/ f)d. (minimum
1 15/-, 20 words)
Canada
2/4 1/2
( 7d. (minimum
"i 11/8,20 words)
U.5.A...
..2/4 to 2/8 1/2 to 2/4-
/ 7d. (minimum
\ 11/8,20 words)
Week-end, Service with the United Kingdom
and U.S.A. has been temporarily suspended.
Argentine, Brazil. Chili and Peru, West
Indies, Central America and other rates on
application. Cable forms, Deferred and
Week-end Resrulat.ions mav be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
77 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1346 f 3 lines).
Quesn’sHouse, Queen St., Melbourne. Tel. 2585.
J. MU,WARD. Manaser in the Pacific,
ll .77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
The advantage of having battery charging current
on tap in the home garage is now within the reach
of every motorist. The G.K. Mercury Arc Battery
Charger makes any ordinary lighting circuit a source
of energy for starting, lighting, and ignition bat-
teries. Its cost is a mere trifle compared with the
convenience and economy of home charging. Au
overnight boosting charge every few weeks will not
only increase the efficiency of a battery, but will
also lengthen the life of the plates. You should
get one of these outfits. Australian General Electric
Company, Wentworth Avenue, Sydney ; and corner of
Queen and Little Collins Streets, Melbourne. — Advt.
• * * *
Water is a valuable asset in summer for drinking,
concentrating or boiler purposes. Why not use
Aluminoferric and have it clear and crystalline?
Aluminoferric is thrown into the water as a solid
or added as a liquid. One pound clarifies from
two to three thousand gallons of most turbid water
within three hours. Write for full facts to William
Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide.
Brisbane, Perth. — Advt. [ 1
* * * *
For grinding all classes of material in Ball Mills
and Tube Mills it is necessary to have a suitable
grinding medium. The mines in West Australia,
also numerous cement plants, are using balls of forged
tyre steel, and find that they give excellent results.
These balls may be obtained in various sizes from
the Austral Otis Engineering Co. of Melbourne, who
have put in a special - plant for forging them, and
can give delivery of most sizes from stock. This
company also manufactures forged steel shoes and
dies for battery work.— -Advt. [3
Pioneer Wood Stave Pipe.—Copy of letter from
The Central Red, White and Blue Mining Co., Ben-
digo, 19th February, 1919 : “Dear Sir, —Replying to
your letter of the 13th inst., we have much pleasure
in stating that the wood piping purchased from you
in 1912 is giving every satisfaction and is in every
way suitable for the work. The maintenance charges
are approximately nil. (Sgd.) McColl, Rankin and
Stanistreet, Managers.” Send for our illustrated
catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe Company, Ltd.
(H. 0.), Burns Bay Road, Longueville, N.S.W. Con-
tractors to all State Governments.— Advt.
Inventors.— -Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassol, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagli
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink’s Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office ; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723.—Advt.
In common with the general progress in engineer-
ing, marked improvements have recently been made
in the design of steam engines, A patented design
of “Uniflow” Steam Engine is now being made bv
Messrs. Robey and Co., Ltd., Lincoln, England.
Highest efficiency and economy of steam con-
sumption is obtained with simplicity of construction
and low upkeep costs, and the results obtained
from this new type of engine have been so marked
as to place the ordinary type of compound engine
quite out of date, the manufacture of w T hich has
been abandoned. Full particulars of the “Robey”
Patent Uniflow Engine can be obtained from the
agents, Arthur Leplastrier and Co.. Circular Quav,
Sydney. Queensland inquiries: The Australian
Machinery Ca, 218-220 Mary Street, Brisbane.
» . —Advt.
* * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide, Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide, —Advt.
# * • •
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assav
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
JV? 8- o !r r an ° r write for particulars. H. B. Selby k Co.,
Ltd 260 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
StieetsL Sydney ; and 443 Boairke Street, Melb.— Advt.
T. 11. Palmer, 8.E., Fel. Chem. Soc., etc.,’consult-
ing engineer, vahnng, organising, technical advice,
™! n ' f ,Tle ‘ a flotation and selective flotation
processes, Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 Pitt
SS*" 1 " “ d ‘»i>,
V£A((KBCANT»
Wu» fieHuom.
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Loss ol Profits
Insure in
Tk ‘ 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital . .£250,000
Subscribed Capital .. 244,396
Paid-up Capital .. 122,000
Income (Cross) 1918 .. 457,852
ACENTS WANTED,
Kstnhlished I!) 10.
Branches in every State.
1 Write tor particulars.
W. It. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
Try AINSLIE WHISKY
DEWHURST & HALLORAN LTD., Agents,
8 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
As Supplied to Royal Navy,
A. Victor Leggo & Co.
Melbourne —Sydney—Brisbane.
Manufacturers Metallurgists Merchants.
Exporters and Importers.
Specialties: INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS. INDUSTRIAL MINERALS,
ORES, METALS AND RAW MATERIALS.
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Other Goods.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
meet the lift in wages. In Commissioner
Campbell’s report the cost of wages, stores,
material and traction per ton coal pro-
duced at the Neath is given as follows:
1015, 6s. 11.65 d.; 1916, 6s. 7.94 d.; 1917,
7s. 1.4 d.; 1918. Bs. 5.91 d.; 1919, Bs. 10.23 d.
Certainly there is no evidence there that
the whole of the 3s. increase in price at the
end of 1916 was required to meet the heavier
wages bill.
The Bulletin has already reviewed that
section of Commissioner Campbell’s report
dealing with the federal Government’s in-
terference with the N. S. Wales coal industry
by means of War Precautions regulations.
Ilis findings were just about what were ex-
pected by most people who had given more
thought to the matter than Hughes and
Watt. But when J. L. Campbell, K.C., dug
into' a maze of figures to ascertain the rela-
tions of profit to capital, etc., lie came to
conclusions with which it is impossible to
agree. He was asked to ascertain “wliat
capital was employed in the various mines,”
a ticklish question which even the cos.
could not answer without considerable in-
quiry and valuations of plant, etc. The
Commissioner naturally found that the cos’,
accounts “disclosed nothing of any value,”
and since he had no power to employ “coer-
cive measures” to secure information
he depended on the published accounts and
figures supplied by the managements. But
he struck considerable trouble; for instance,
in the case of the several collieries owned and worked
by Messrs. J. and A. Brown, there has been no
division of the capital or trading accounts of the
different collieries from the capital and trading
accounts of the firm’s general business, and there
is no exact or complete record of capital expen-
diture in connection with any one colliery.
In the case of the Caledonian Collieries
(Howard Smith’s big coal interests) and
others, where shares had been issued to the
vendors, the Commissioner could not get
at the actual purchase price, and had to
base his conclusions on the originally-issued
share capital, representing “a considerable
inflation of actual capital values.” Fur-
ther, he “endeavored to keep out of the com-
putations any mere accretions of value in
the tangible assets which do not add to the
productive efficiency of the assets, and do not
produce anything of themselves.” Apparently
no reserves invested outside the business
were included as capital employed in coal-
winning. Yet some of these reserves are
very much attached to the business. A coal-
mine management must always keep an eye
on the future. As the tunnels are extended,
it knows that it will later on be called upon
to provide new shafts, additional haulage
plant, etc. Since additional capital cannot
reasonably be asked for such work, portion of
each year’s profits must be set aside and in-
vested in gilt-edged securities until such time
as they are required. Further, coal-mining
is a hazardous industry, and wise manage-
ments make provision to insure the mine
against damages for which cover cannot be
secured in the usual way. A disaster on a
scale like that at Mt. Kembla, which ran
away with £40,000, is one of the risks
which the coal investor must take; but a
co. should provide against the possibility of
minor damages and loss from fire, etc., and
a reasonable amount of these provisions
should be regarded as funds invested in the
colliery. They are essential to the continued
life of the mine should trouble occur. Appa-
rently the Commissioner also took the book
value of plant as the basis of calculating
how much capital was invested in that direc-
tion; but more as to that later.
The difficulties in ascertaining the actual
capital employed in some mines were so
great, and the basis on which results were
arrived at for others so debatable, that
the table of profit in relation to capital is
worthless and should not have been included
in the report. It is incredible that one par-
ticular mine could have earned 154 p.c.
while other excellently-equipped properties,
as well situated, were giving a very small
return. If guesses are right the figures
apply to a mine run by a proprietary, which
received less per ton for its coal than many
other collieries. But it has written down
property and plant very hard, and appa-
rently has not charged up development to
capital. Anyhow, it is unbelievable that
this mine could turn out 293,000 tons last
year on a capital outlay of only £31,403,
whereas the average capital employed (as
estimated by the Commissioner) in 11 other
producers of over 200,000 tons per annum
is £227,000.
In estimating the cost of production per
ton, the Commissioner also revealed himself
as a conscientious lawyer but a poor account-
ant. He explains:—
I consistently eliminated as a charge against pro-
duction such things as income-tax, interest on
capital, and a proportion of insurance charges, de-
ducted as expenditure, but not in fact expended, and
not shown to be a necessary reserve against a
current risk ; and I have rejected the method of
estimating depreciation of plant and machinery and
waggons put forward on behalf of nearly all the
collieries, which was to make a uniform yearly
charge against production of 10 p.c. of the dimin-
ishing value of plant and machinery and 5 p.c. on
waggons. This method represented, in my opinion,
an excessive charge against production....! pre-
ferred the sinking-fund method of providing for
depreciation, calculated on an assumption of prob-
able effective life. .., Repairs and renewals of plant,
machinery and waggons are each year provided for
separately out of revenue. ... New plant and
machinery are, therefore, under these conditions,
assumed to have a life of 30 years, and new waggons
a life of 40 years.
Possibly the 10 p.c. and 5 p.c. allowances
were excessive, but how many mines are
working with plant installed in the early
’nineties and loading with trucks put on the
rails in the ’eighties? Incidentally, the
Commissioner makes no allowance for the
modernising of plant. Further on he deals
with amortisation:—
I also entirely rejected all deductions in respect of
what was called amortisation. This charge, I am
satisfied, was never in fact made in the P. and L.
account of any colliery, except in two instances,
noi is it usual in the P. and L. accounts of any
mining venture, for the simple reason that it is not
really calculable; there being in any method of
calculation that could be employed so many in-
definite factors, and so much room for the play of
imagination, that it can find no place in any system
of practical accountancy, which claims to deal with
facts and not with abstract theories.
The usual practice is to regard mining as a form
°i Productive enterprise, in which the ordinary
piofit letuin from the venture is expected to show
L ™ ars !“, wcll ab o, v e the standard interest return
fi om what are called ‘gilt-edged securities.”
H badly-managed mines,
as well as wild-cats, don’t provide for the
replacement of the mine asset as it ceases
to exist; but the management which can
and doesn’t attempt to do it, but instead
lepresents the old wasted asset as of the
original value, is dishonest, and that’s all
about it. Jj or a Commissioner to accept the
dishonesty as a matter of course isn’t very
encoring.
* * #• *
A weaker market for tin and a reduced
ulted m Kampong Ivamunting
ilcimvH dl ; s . clos , lng a net profit of only
£1J,400 for the half-year to June 30, com-
pared with £44,253 for the previous run. The
N °‘ 1 dredge was held up for repairs part
of the time, and then it was put into ground
which had already been tapped when open-
ing consequently there was practically
a 100-tons smaller output from this plant
lhe co. closed its half-year with £81.783
invested outside the business, and it owed the
bank ±32,43!), thus having surplus assets
outside its own property representing more
its P ai d capital. Over
£oo,ooo has now been advanced to the Asam
Ivumbang Co. y but production has begun on
that show, and prospects seem good. The
Ivampong’s interests in that mine are very
sweet if everything works out well, for in
consideration for having obliged with the
substantial advances it has the right to take
up the Ivumbang’s 25,000 unissued £1 shares
at a premium of ss.
The Celebration, Hampton Plains (WA )
has been offered to London, and its flota-
tion there by Clark and Robinson may take
place this week. So far the property has
not shown any promise of becoming a Boulder,
Horseshoe or Ivanhoe. or of yielding rich
crushings for a start like the Bullfinch.
Nevertheless it seems to have the makings
of a good mine that will do all that is
claimed for it by the promoters. Vendors
usually allege that their geese are over-
grown swans, but in this case no attempt
has been made by the Golden Mile hard-
heads who hold the option to overstate
values or puff the prospects of the property.
Both the English cos. which own acre-
ages at Hampton Plains were in a bad way
financially prior to the recent finds. Hamp-
ton Properties, Ltd., which holds Block 50,
on which the Celebration is situated, had
scarcely any cash at all, and when the news
reached London and the co.’s shares soared
it readily agreed to Lionel Robinson’s offer
to take a big wad of reserve shares at par
conditionally on his being allowed an option
on the balance. This paid the co., and as the
scrip stood at a stiff premium presumably
it paid Robinson also. The other co., Hamp-
ton Uruguay, which owns Block 48, on which
Slavin made his find, and where miles of
country lias been pegged, was in the hands
of the receiver, and had liabilities aggregat-
ing over £200.000. Its sole source of re-
venue was royalties on firewood, which lately
have averaged about £2OOO a year.
Riverina South announces that the
Westralian Mines Department has agreed
to advance up to £2OOO for development on
a pound-for-pound basis, and that the down-
ward continuation of shoots of gold, one
time profitably worked by the defunct River-
ina Co., should shortly be struck at No.
3 level. The co.’s liabilities now amount
to £0824, made up of debentures, £6OOO ;
sundry creditors, £1758; and bank overdraft,
£2066. Apart from the mine, which has
been ruinous to date, and a plant, which if
put up for auction would hardly bring more
than the price of old iron, all the co. has is
£1628 worth of stores and £lO5 in cash.
* * * *
Great Boulder’s monthly returns are
steadily dwindling. The co. is not making
half as much out of ore-treatment as it did
earlier in the year, and little more than
one-third of what it did in 1018. Notwith-
standing old-man Doolette’s optimism, the
days of the Boulder as a great mine appear
very limited.
Tenders are being called for the Boulder
Perseverance lease and everything thereon.
Latterly the liquidator has been doing fairly
well out of royalties and buying the tribu-
tors’ gold, but London creditors have be-
come impatient and want a final clean-up.
In the hands of tributors the mine will pro-
bably be kept going for years.
A big law suit is pending against the
Westralian Government in connection with
the purchase of copper ore from the Ravens-
thorpe tributors. The latter allege that they
have been over-charged for realisations to
the extent of over £30,000.
* * * *
Menzies Consolidated (W.A.), which for
nearly a quarter of a century has kept a
small community going, is said to be in
distress. Over a million pounds’ worth of
gold has been won to date, but the mostly-
English shareholders have had very little
of it. The show belongs to the class of mine
which pays heavy taxes, gives regular employ-
ment to a number of men, helps the Govern-
ment railways, and enables a few pub- and
storekeepers to make a living.
The row about imported dynamite in the
West has been settled. Government Inspec-
tor Mann objected to sodium-nitrate and
potassium-nitrate compounds being labelled
as gelignite, and urged that the manufac-
turers should be compelled to label each
compound with its proper name. However,
late Minister for Mines Robinson decided
that both kinds might come in as gelignite.
Then it dawned on the Department that un-
less each carried its own name it would
be difficult in the case of one proving in-
jurious to miners to determine which
was doing the damage. So present Mines
Minister Scaddan has decided that each
packet must be branded according to con-
tents.
* * * *
Prospecting in the Tara Syndicate’s leases
• v.A.) has nersuaded the directors to aban-
don their option. Now the Borland and
Rudd syndicate, holding an option over the
adjoining property, will meet to consider
what to do with a highly unpromising spec.
A Melbourne mining note states that “small
lots of Tara shares were available at £9.
while Borland and Rudd has recently been
worth £7 10s.” Well, the syndicate must
have assets besides the “mine” to make the
shares worth, on present appearances, any-
thing at all.
Funds have run almost as dry as the darn
at Mt. Dudley (N.S.W.). The calling power
on the 120,000 issued shares of 2s. Gd. having
been almost exhausted, the directors pro-
pose to increase nominal capital from
£15,000 to £22,500 by putting out 60,000
new shares. The issue has been under-
written —terms not disclosed. So the mine
will now have to feed a share register half
as brg again as was originally anticipated.
Drought is blamed for the poor results
which have shown up so far; manager
Martin reckons that if he had had the water
to put through 750 tons per month things
would have turned out very differently. He
now claims that
in each and every face a solid face of clean stone
exists, and has constantly given good values in
every different section of the workings, some assay-
ing as high as 4oz. The high values do not occur
in pockets, but are recovered from solid reef.
We are now opening up a huge reef in each level
and a glance below ground will soon convince the
mining man that with plenty of water for treat-
ment purposes we have no limit of crushing material.
To supplement anything that may come
into the dam, it is proposed to pump from
& well sunk in a neighboring swamp. If
this is done the battery should soon have an
opportunity to give its opinion of manager
Martin’s claims.
* * * *
New Caledonia Metals, a Sydney co.
formed six months ago to acquire certain
mineral leases in the French Pacific colony
has already had engineer Savage on the job
weighing up mining and hydro-electric pos-
sibiiities. Savage is now going to make a
further investigation in conjunction with
Conn, chief-electrical engineer of N. S.
\\ ales Public Works, who has been given
Ministerial permission to advise on the
hydro-electric project, which is roughly esti-
mated to provide 30,000 to 40,000 li.p.
Homeward Bound, Yackandandah (Vic.),
does not appear to be making that way.
Development work in the south end of the
adit level failed to locate the shoot which had
been met in the upper workings, while north
nothing payable was found. Manager Fol-
ster now reckons that the most promising
spot is in the north drive, where he proposes
overhead stoping,. but the future “depends
on getting into new country.” During the
past half-year 1137 tons went to the bat-
tery for 5081 oz. gold, but £3038 had to be
expended to obtain a revenue of £2338.
Higher wages are now making operations
more difficult.
Lyell Blocks directors announce that if
the deal with Mt. Lyell comes off, share-
holders will get only about Sd. per share.
Of that 4d. will represent the £SOOU purchase
price to be paid by Lyell; so they appa-
rently anticipate realising less than oiie-
fifth of the book value of the derelict’s plant,
etc.
A party of prospectors recently secured a
tribute from the Tasmania G.M. Co., Bea-
consfield (Tas.), to work a block of ground
for alluvial. Several holes have been sunk
to a depth varying from 20ft. to 60ft., the
deepest bottoming on a gutter showing good
prospects. The old co.’s water-race is being
repaired, and pipes laid to treat the dirt.
The ground being worked is virgin.
[Harold Burston, 214 George-street, Sydney.]


Percy Leason, 24 Bond-street, Sydney.]
THE BROKEN PANEL.
COCKY: “Heigh, while we’re listening to these blokes fluting, the neighbors’ bally stock’s getting into our crop.”


JPff/ Zlnanimous
ABBOTS LAGER.
THE DRINK OF GOOD FELLOWSHIP
73r<?Wpd from
Pi/refla/fiftopr On/y
item
THE DEAF HEAR!
The Joy and Happiness
of perfect hearing are
only appreciated by
those who have lost it.
The
Mears Earphone
makes it yours. The
Latest Model 96-Tone
Mears Earphone
In the holiow of thei
hand or attached to
ear with light head
with its great range of
tone and power, can be regulated by a touch
or the finger to suit the hearing for every
occasion, and for all stages of deafness.
The MEARS EARPHONE catches and inten-
sifies even the least whisper, and enables the
aeat to hear lectures, sermons and plays clear-
ly and distinctly. Small, compact, and incon-
spicuous. The MEARS EARPHONE is
recommended by leading Aurists, and many ■
prominent Australian citizens have had the
MEARS Earphone in daily use’for Seven
. Years, with continued satisfaction.
A Lengthy Guarantee with each Instrument
FREE TRIAL \
Call and test it, or write for booklet post free
1 HE Mears Earphone Co., Bernard’s Bldgs.,
Tel. 3916 City. 387 George Street, Sydney.
[ John Barr
street, Sydney
Melbourne. ]
and Ernest O’Ferrall, 214 George-
and C. R. Bradish, Old Exchange,
Hotel Sydney
The Spacious Dining
Hall is a Rendezvous
of Eminence for
LUNCHEONS
and
DINNERS.
ITEMS—
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA.
CHARniNG ROOF GARDEN.
Management E. T. CHKESEMAN.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Koss and Keith Smith, air bound to Aus-
tralia, are Adelaide boys, the sons of the
P a M ger of Mutooroo station. Ross, who
early to the scrap, enlisting in
August, Dl4. Keith met trouble with the
examining doctors, but went to England
and got past ’em there in 1917.
Political orator in Melbourne: “I admit
iom Ryan is not of the workers in the sense
that I am myself, but he belongs to that
body of the people about whom the National-
ists affect to be greatly concerned just now.
Mr. Ryan belongs to the great middle class.”
Rude interjeetor: “Yes, we’ve noticed his
great middle.”
Artist Tom Roberts, who has been in Eng-
land for many years, is on his way to Aus-
tralia by the Orvieto. Charles Wheeler, the
portrait painter, is also on the water.
The name of Allenby, casually proposed
by the S. Aus. Government for a new suburb
to be made out of the old 300-acre camp-
area at Mitcham, was promptly turned down
by the Assembly. Monash was suggested,
but in the circs, the House thought a native
name might be better.
Willie Watt chuckles over a retort that
was sent spinning up to him at Balaclava.
He was telling them he was one of the rare
political birds that keep their promises.
“Yes,” said the elector, “you keep your
nromises aw right. Make the same lot do
every election. You never part with one!”
McLachlan, member for North Gippsland,
who, if he brushed himself, would resemble
the Duke of Edinburgh as Alfred looked 52
years ago, put up a record the other night by
concluding a speech in the Vic. Leg. Assem-
bly in the presence of two members—the
Speaker (Mackey), who had to stop, and the
MAYOR McMASTER, of Brisbane.
amiable Hutchinson, Minister of Educa-
tion. Mac insisted upon chipping in on
the motion for adjournment, and members
slipped out on tiptoe one by one and caught
their trams or trains home.
Thomas Hill Easterfield, appointed direc-
tor of the Cawthron Institute of Science
Research at Nelson (M.L.), has been pro-
fessor of chemistry at Victoria College,
Wellington (M.L.) for 20 years. Cawthron,
from whom the Institute takes its name, left
£240,000 for its foundation when he went
over the hill a few years ago at Nelson.
Easterfield, who had an English training,
is 53 years young. While he was at Cam-
bridge he was for two years one of its reps,
in athletics against Oxford.
Perth lost one of its most useful citizens
when Dr. Gertrude Mead died in Adelaide.
She was a daughter of the learned Silas,
of the Baptist tabernacle, and the hardest
work the frail little woman did wasn’t for
fees. She was one of the founders of the
Children’s Protection Society—the first to
suggest trained district nurses for Perth, and
the establishment of the Cottage Home for
elderly people was mainly owing to her
efforts. When two women were selected by
the Government to be members of the Senate
of the University of Westralia at its estab-
lishment, Gertrude Mead was one, and she
retained her membership until her death.
The resurrection of an old tin-box, formerly
the property of Edward Bulwer Lytton
Dickens, and containing some papers of
family interest, recalls that the grave of
this youngest son of Charles is unmarked
and unknown. The Dickens Fellowship, seeking
the grave in the Moree Anglican Cemetery
and failing to find it, put a mural tablet in
the local Anglican church. As a matter of
fact, this Dickens
is buried in the
Wesleyan Ceme-
tery at Moree.
Three months be-
fore his death he'
sent for the then
local minister of
the Methodists, E...
W. Hynes, now of
Ashfield, and ex-
pressed a desire
for his services,
stating that he
wished at his
death, which he
knew was handy,
to be buried as a
Methodist. M r.
Hynes visited him
daily and con-
ducted the burial
service at the
graveside. But even
he cannot locate
the exact spot.
D. YORKE BYME,
Melbourne shipping
man.
Another Australian has a large job in
China—Dr. E. J. Stuckey, principal of the
Union Medical College, Pekin. Stuckey is
training doctors in the yellow man’s country.
He has been nine years principal of the
college, and in his spare time lias translated
a textbook of medical jurisprudence and com-
piled a lexicon of medical terms. He started
to learn his job at the Adelaide Uni.
You never can guess where you’ll meet
Wilkins next. The public—outside his native
Adelaide, where he was known as a photo-
grapher—first heard of him in the Balkans,
where he was a war-correspondent. Then
he turned up in the Arctic with Stefansson.
Next he was the dare-devil who astonished
even Charley Bean as he practised his new
calling of “official photographer to the
A.l.F.’’ Of course, a fellow like that had
to take on flying, sooner or later, and now
he is booked in England for an attempt to
reach Australia in a Blackburn-Kangaroo
machine.
G. R. W. McDonald, who retires from N. S.
Wales Assembly at the end of this session,
has been nine years in Macquarie-street. He
arrived there from Bingara in 1910, after
knocking out Sammy Moore, then Minister
for Lands. McDonald sat first as a Labor-
ite, then as an Independent, and finally as a
Nationalist. He began life as a court-house
clerk, got some experience in Crown Lands
agency work, started then as a private land-
agent at Tamworth, and has made such a suc-
cess of his business ventures that he finds
himself so much their slave that he can’t do
justice to a constituency.
The late Archie Thompson, whose name
has been frequently mentioned in connection
with £lOOO handed to a N. S. Wales Minis-
ter for electioneering purposes, came to
Sydney from one of the islands in the north
of Scotland in the middle ’eighties. Look-
ing for employment, he was offered a job as
a gaol-warder, but refused that and joined
the police force. There was not money
enough in the job, though, for the canny
Scot, and he gave it best. Then he started
U tote iri Bank Court, oft; 'King-street,
became a racecourse proprietor and owner
of ponies, and died worth £BO,OOO, at
Kuranda, in North Queensland, whither con-
sumption hau driven him. If a raid was
made on any gambling-shop he was con-
nected with, the fines, no matter how many,
were paid by Thompson. He was never
caught personally, having generally an early
tip of trouble coming. He once stood as
an independent imbor candidate for a Syd-
ney metropolitan constituency.
Adelaide, having done justice in the
statuary line to Sturt, Stuart and Bight,
thinks it now owes a statue to Flinders.
llis name is commemorated by sundry tab-
lets or pillars on the coast which he dis-
covered. But the city has no direct re-
minder of him, except the obelisk which
can be seen on Mount Lofty—and that was
erected for a trig, station. The last three
mayors, Simpson, Isaacs and Glover, have
all pressed the question. Glover, in commend-
ing it to his successor’s attention, calls
blinders “the virtual discoverer of South
Aus.’ True, he never saw or thought of
what is now the site of the capital; but
from Kangaroo Island he saw, and gave a
name to, Mount Lofty, which is just behind
the city.
Bob Best, who without either need or
provocation is beating the sectarian drum
in Ivooyong. has only turned ranter since
he entered Federal politics. When he was
the State Radical member for Fitzroy—
“ Mister Bobbing-around Best,” as the Akgus
leader-writers called him —he was all things
to all men. When, 20 years ago, Graves
accused him, as Minister for Lands, of pro-
moting Jackson, his brother-in-law, and the
Assembly appointed a select committee to
investigate, it was broad-minded George
Bennett, R.C. member for Richmond, who
induced the majority to reject all the petty
suggestions and innuendoes put forward, and
find_ in favor of Best. Had Bennett been
a bigot, or had he done nothing to neutralise
the antagonism of Graves, a nastv blow,
however unjust, might have been dealt to
Best.
Hughie Ray, good engineer and fine old
chap, has gone over the hill in Darwin.
He used to be chief engineer of the steamer
that six years ago took the crowd of Federal
members, along with Jock Gilruth. across
to have a look at Melville Island. On leav-
ing Joe Cooper’s buffalo camp, at the bot-
tom-end of Apsley Strait, Hughie was told
by skipper Edwards that his first stop would
be Cape Gambier, a run of 30 miles. Six
miles had been ticked off, when Gilruth
changed his mind and decided to pull up
to give the mighty intellects a chance to see
a bit of a creek-mouth inshore. When
Hughie got the ’phone ring he shut off
and clambered to the bridge to know about
his clouds of wasting steam. The skipper
tried to quieten the old boy, by telling him
that Gilyuth wanted them to see the creek
over there. “Creek!” Hughie fairly yelled.
“Does Gilruth think I’m driving a
omnibus that stops at every corner?” Gil-
ruth looked daggers. But so did Hughie.
Allan McDonald, the Nationalist candidate
for Corangamite (Vic.), is a returned Digger
with a useless arm as his badge of service.
He was a farmer in that district when the
gong sounded.
M. J. Canny, who has been made outdoor
traffic superintendent of the Vic. Railway
Dept., is getting a big lift in pay and status.
Lately he lias been confidential man to Nor-
man, the Chief Commissioner. He has got
the big job of toning up the service, which
has developed slackness, and co-ordinating
branch work ; and he is to pick an efficiency
staff to help him.
Martin Hannah, the delightful surprise-
packet of the Vic. Assembly, continues to
mix ’em. “Here we are,” said he; making
his peroration, “with the shadows of evening
dawning around us.” And, t’rowing some
light on a subject that the House was de-
bating, “I was too far off for to hear the dia-
logue [between Peacock and McPherson at
the Lord Mayor’s banquet], but I saw it.”
“Myalla”: Careoar (N.S.W.) has a “char-
acter” in Jack Williams, who distributes the
Sydney newspapers after the arrival of the
train. Ho is also the village handyman, and
does the lamplighting and poundkeeping. The
other day he got this off: “There you are,
boys. There’s Billy Hughes, the greatest
man in Australia; there’s Lloyd George, the
greatest man in the United Kingdom—and
the three of us are Wels’men.”
Captain-Chaplain F. W. Norwood, a good
Australian who went away with Y Emma,
has been appointed 1 pastor of the City Temple,
London, until March, 1920. Norwood was
born in Bendigo 44 years ago, commenced a
business life in Melbourne, but joined up
with the Baptist Church, was for some years
sec. of the Vic. Baptist College, and just
before going to the Front was pastor of the
water-loving brethren at North Adelaide.
Mrs. Trevelyan Bond, a daughter of
Janies Melrose, the old S. Aus. squatter, was
living in Colombo when the war started,
and, as her husband went to Europe to
fight, she decided to take up munition work.
She commenced in a factory at Shoreditch
on fuse noses; after eight months was sent
to Woolwich Arsenal in charge of girls in
the small-arms factory; broke down there
at last after trying to keep up a 15-hour
day: and after recuperating in Somerset
took a job as a driver of mail-vans, and
stuck it for 14 months. Mrs. Bond is back
in Adelaide now, with a fair claim to join
the Digger when cheers are being served
out.
JOE COOK in his Mayfair manner.
John Packer, the former hardware-shop
assistant who in pre-war times made some-
thing of a name for himself among his fellow-
workers in Melbourne by being extra-nice to
the boss, is still nibbling at politics. In
the days when a little bunch of employers
helped Packer to start his Society of Free
Workmen, the reformer was a narrow, drab,
unnoticeable young man. His seven fat
years as a Free Workman have turned him
into a pillar of Stoutness, physically at least;
and nowadays he is pushing behind F. H.
Francis, one of the Nationalists who are
trying to shove Boyd out of the Henty seat.
The election has discovered at least one
Quixote. His name is Anwoth Brown, and
he is a company director with mining inter-
ests. He is standing as a Real Nationalist,
and for the farming, electorate of Corio, of
all places. He scorns party backing and
plays a lone hand, and among his lances are
Non-payment of Members, Abolition of State
Parliaments, No Parties, Elective Ministries,
Production as a Cure for Profiteering, and
the payment of the gratuity in cash, on the
ground that if the war had gone on the
money \vould have had to be raised. The
young man talks with the fluency of a
traveller in “notions,” and has no reverence
at all for the inspired perfections of the other
Nationalist programme.
On \the motion of Archdeacon Boyce the
Australian Historical Society’s council will
consider the question of snatching what is
left of Admiral Phillip’s body from the little
Anglican churchyard near Bath and trans-
porting it to the Sydney Domain. Mean-
while The Bulletin hears of a man who
was shot through the lung in the Boer War.
who has since developed T.B. in the damaged
organ, and whose children, but for the
assistance of relatives, as poor nearly as
himself, would be hungry at this moment.
The Cameliers always had a salute ready
for Lieut.-Col. de JLancey-Forth, who before
the war was a pearler at Broome, but had
had experience with a crack English regi-
ment. He joined that lot first, but later
on was posted to the Egyptian Army, and
when the Australian Camel Corps was
formed he begged for one of the brigades,
lie soon was a warm favorite, and much of
his popularity was due to his persuasive
way with hard cases. Six months after he
took charge of the 3rd Camel Brigade crime
in the unit was almost unknown. But it
wasn’t mere leniency. Part of it was
courage: no more fearless man ever led a
mob of Cameliers into action, and his
bravery during the second attack at Gaza
will long be remembered by the men who
followed him. Yet there were tears in his
eyes the day he left his Anzacs to take
-charge of a Tommy infantry regiment.
TO MOTHERS AND WIVES OF MEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Fond mothers by the sepulchre, who weep
For soldier sons, Rachels who vigils keep;
And you, the widows who forever mourn,
The prop and mainstay of your house uptorn:
Grieve not for those who, maimed and clothed with
scars,
Shine in the heavens’ effulgent morning stars:
Brave Soldier Christs who died to set men free,
lo whom we bow the head and bend the knee-
Weep not for them!
If tears unbidden flow and must be shed,
Weep thou for those who mourn no glorious dead—
Mothers of cravens, those who never knew
The joys of motherhood, who wear the rue!
Jyot theirs the dowry of a deathless name,
lor them a long regret, undying shame;
For them, poor souls, no man immortal waits
Their blissful advent through God’s golden gates—
Weep thou for them!
N.S.W.
GEORGE BLACK.


ft
±_
m
l
3
T£
V
¥
ZP'k
<3
n
%
PPa
D
r'
IN any assemblage of well-dressed people the
mark of “Austral” Quality and “Austral
Character in men’s clothes is clearly apparent.
There is a definite satisfaction and a distinct social
and business advantage for the man whose garments
are expressive of careful choice and skilful and
conscientious workmanship.
In “Austral” clothes these desirable features are
emphasised. The experience acquired in thoroughly
pleasing our customers during the long period of 60
years is your assurance of the fullest satisfaction.
An invariable policy of studious attention to personal
tastes and wishes, combined with sound quality and
excellent value for money, has attached to the name
“Austral” a deep and lasting popularity.
MEN’S READY-TO-WEAR SAC SUITS of All-Wool Aus-
tralian Tweeds of high grade, are excellent productions in every
way. The coats are made with fashionable two-button fronts.
There is a variation in the treatment of the lapels. They
are mostly medium lengths, but high-cut or long lapels may be
had at eitlu r of the prices quoted. Correctness of style is
observed also in the outside breast pocket, the plain back and
the slightly shortened skirt. The choice of fabrics includes
Australian All-Wool Tweeds of soft finish and high grade,
in many shades of grey and brown striped designs. Plain
grey colorings and check effects are also available.
PRICES: 84/-, 95/-, 115/- to 147/-
MEN’S TWO-PIECE SPORTS SUITS, of medium-weight
Marrickville Tweeds, in shades of grey or brown. The jacket
has an inverted box-pleat in centre from the yoke to the half-
belt. with two pleats each side. The three patch-pockets have
an inverted pleat in centre—the bottom two have flaps. The
Trousers are worn with belt, and have straight-cut tops,
buttons sewn inside, and four belt-loops. The bottoms are
permanently up-turned. These Suits are specially recom-
mended to the man who values his comfort without sacrifice
of his smart appearance.
PRICES: 84/-, 95/-, 105/-
Shirtwear, Collars, Pyjamas,
Footwear, Headwear,
/
Underwear and Hosiery,
Travelling Goods.
CUSTOMERS WHO RESIDE AT A DISTANCE.
To any address we send on request, post-free, our SO-page Art
Catalogue, which illustrates many lines and fully describes all
items of apparel for the complete outfitting of men and boys.
Ask for a copy to-day.
ORDERS DELIVERED FREE
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
A Special Concession of 5 per cent. (1/- in the £) is
allowed Returned Soldiers in Uniform, on all Cash
Purchases of £5 or over.
GOWING BROS. LTD.,
Everything for Men’s and Boys’ Wear,
484-4 SO GEORGE STREET; 3 to 17 ROYAL ARCADE;
Branch Store at 304 GEORGE STREET (near Hunter Street),
SYDNEY.


Combining Comfort and
Smart Appearance.
Illustrated is a new idea in Summer
Comfort headwear—
PEAPES’ ALPINE PANAMA.
Genuine South American manufacture —
has creased top. dented sides and curled
brim. Distinction, lightness and coolness.
Keenly price at
PEAPES’ PAY POSTAGE.
Please state size when ordering.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309 and 311 George St., Sydney.
as®;
The Very Thing for Christmas.
You need no longer worry about what to give your friends. Give
them all ONOTO Pens.
An ONOTO is a gift that is sure to please. It is the fountain pen
that fills itself, cleans itself, never leaks, and never scratches. It
is a model of simplicity.
The Onoto is British Made, and is guaranteed by its makers.
Price 17/-
THE SAFETY PEN NEVER LEAKS.
Price 17/- and in a variety of more elaborate styles for presentation purposes, of
all Stationers. Jewellers and Stores. Manufacturers. Ihos. De La Rue & Co. Ltd.,
182 Bunhill Row, London, E.C. Agents, Norman Baker & Longrburst,
50 York Street, Sydney,
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
“Cunyer” : The facts of the charge of the
Light liorse at Beersheba get more twisted
the longer the remarkable performance is
talked of. According to plan Beersheba was
to fall on October 31, but the British Infan-
try and the Anzac Mounted Division were
held up by heavy machine-gun fire and were
unable to advance on the town. Allenby’s
order was that Beersheba must fall that day.
so a conference of generals was held at 4
o clock in the afternoon. Time did not then
permit of a dismounted attack, and Brig.-
General Grant volunteered to make a
mounted attack with the 4th L.H. Brigade.
Til's Brigade was resting in a concealed
position about 41 miles S.-E. of Beersheba,
but was soon swinging into line, the 4th
and 12th regiments making the actual charge.
(Both squadrons, by the way, were led by
majors.) The trenches were deep, formid-
able and fully manned, but not protected by
wire entanglements. It was nearly dusk when
the charging Light Horsemen bore down on
the enemy position, the clatter of hoofs and
the wild yelling of the riders throwing the
Turks into hopeless disorder, for they be-
lieved that the whole of the Palestine cavalry
was galloping at them. It was a huge bluff,
but it came off. I was an officer in the charge
and while I can recall anything I shall
remember the glorious ride and the hail of
lead which emptied so many saddles and
felled so many fine horses.
The Anzac Buffet in London closed its
doors on Saturday. Run by . the London
branch of the A.N.A., it eclipsed all British
efforts to provide for the entertainment of the
soldier: the tucker was first-class, and
everything was free, including the eager
service of the people who did the work.
A.I.F. Headquarters did not altogether ap-
prove of it, for the free meal gave the a.-w.-l.
Digger a chance to keep going when his
funds were exhausted; but as they could
not induce the Anzac people to charge, the
difficulty w y as overcome by making the place
subject to almost daily inspection by the
military police.
“Dick E. Bush”; We were camped at
Cerisy, between the Canal and the lagoons
which lie up towards the road, when Fritz
started to whip a few in. Bill ran out of
his dugout at the “toot,” and seeing the
horses well on their way up the valley, de-
cided that the oat-heap wasn’t a bad sort of
refuge. He had no sooner crawled under
the bags than a burst skied the heap and
him with it. The hay-heap then looked
good, and he was just snug in its shelter
when it went up too. Then he started up the
valley on the run. Every 25 yards or so
a shell exploded handy, and as the ground
had no bottom, he collected a fair share of
mud and water from every burst. When
he eventually found he was out of range
he turned round, and, shaking his fist in
Fritz’s direction, shouted, “Now have a go
at someone else, you !”
“Wage Slave” : Amongst the brave things
done back o’ Sunset this should receive more
than honorable mention. Jack White, a
boundary rider, felt death coming upon him
on November 5 at Sandy Creek (Q.),
where he had a job looking after the Thargo-
mindah check fence. His 16-year-old son
was the only human being, so far as he
knew, within 75 miles. The lad was faced
with two propositions. Would he take dad
to the nearest outpost of alleged civilisation,
where no doctor hung out, or would he
struggle into Tibooburra (N.S.W.), where
there is a hospital? He decided on the latter
course. The journey was across 100 miles of
drought-stricken and practically waterless
country, but young White cheerfully faced the
risk. Rounding up a pair of camels he made
dad as comfortable as possible and set out.
The patient was so ill, however, that a rest
of two days was necessary on the way, and
JUST IN CASE.
THE LITTLE DEAR: “It’s all over the shop
that you and I are engaged."
HIM: “Oh, hut didn’t you deny it ?”
HER AGAIN : “ No-o-o —I thought I’d better
see you first.”
after five days’ battling the youth deposited
his parent in the Tibooburra hospital. And
here’s the hell of it; the old man died next
day. An affliction of the heart was the cause.
What his son endured on that expedition the
Recording Angel only knows, and down it
goes in that well-tilled book wherein are
emblazoned hundreds of such deeds done out-
back.
EVERY SILVER LINING lIAS ITS CLOUD.
BELLE: “I hear you've given up Evaline?"
BILL: “Yes, I thought she was perfect, hut last night I found something about her I
didn't like."
BELLE: “What was that?"
BILL: “Jack’s arm."
“Bouragi”: The writer of the par (B.
13/11/Y9) re Governor Macgregor’s far-
seeing edict forbidding the supply of liquor,
arms and opium to the British
New Guinea natives errs in say-
ing that there has never been a
prosecution under the ordinance.
There have been many against
suppliers of liquor, though I
cannot remember a charge in
connection with opium. Prosecu-
tions for supplying arms have
mostly been in cases where a
“shooting boy” has not been sup-
plied with the necessary license,
or where a recruiter, going into
new country, has armed his in-
terpreter. The ordinance also
forbids the supplying of dyna-
mite, and fines for this are hot
and heavy, with a term in gaol
or deportation. Dynamite is in
great request by natives for fish-
ing all over the Western Pacific,
and they will pay heavy prices
for it. As a consequence hand-
less darkies are common, the
average native having hazy ideas as to the
burning time of fuse.
* * * *
“Karim Khan”: I’d heard so much about
the Kurd that, when I went to live near
him, I expected to be killed and quartered
before I'd been there a w r eek. Instead, he
proved a very interesting neighbor, a little
bellicose and unorthodox at times, but pos-
sessed of more chivalry than he is usually
given credit for. One brigand chief, with
his following of 500, had been giving us
trouble, chiefly by harassing the people whom
We had guaranteed to protect. We preferred
diplomacy to a difficult punitive expedition,
and finally persuaded him to receive us in
conference. As we approached his head-
quarters we were met by two mounted men.
who drove before them an ox roped up like
a hoppled horse. They salaamed us, and
threw the beast down in the roadway, while
the chief, with his bodyguard, watched
developments from a distance. A visitor of
doubtful intentions must, according to moun-
tain etiquette, either order the bullock to
be killed, in which case he signifies that he
will not leave till his requests are granted,
or have the ropes cut and release it. We
had our cue, and chose the latter course. A
party was then sent out to escort us, and
when w 7 e arrived at the palace door the two
servants dismounted, killed a sheep, and
after throwing the head on one side and the
body on the other, sprinkled the doorway
with blood. When a stranger steps inside,
he crosses the blood-line, and any feud exist-
ing between him and his host is overlooked
while he remains a visitor in the house. Our
party consisted of only two white men, an
interpreter and two natives ; so, if we’d had
that bullock turned into beef our blood would
probably have decorated the doormat.
Victoria’s new Health Bill gives some in-
formation that lots of people would have
felt better without. It makes it illegal for
butchers to sell meat that has been “blown,”
“greased,” “stuffed” or “spouted.” “Blown,”
it is explained, means that air has been
forced in to make it look well-nourished;
“greasing” consists in rubbing fat over it to
give it a bloom; “stuffing” is forcing any
old grease behind the kidney-fat, and in
“spouting” the operator chews fat and then
spews it over the ancient forequarter or
rib joint to make it look young and tender!
Of course, Ah Sin’s “spouting” dodge for
starching boiled shirt-fronts is notorious, but
then one need not patronise Ah Sin. One
must deal with a butcher.
* * * *
“Cape Pork”: Re “Van Tromp’s” par (B.
30/10/’l9), I would advise explorers of the
western side of the Cape York Peninsula to
make careful inquiry as to the right time to
start out. Knowing the Staaten River coun-
try intimately, I assure them that it would
be suicide to set forth in the wet season, as
all the numerous rivers thereabouts overflow
their banks for miles, forming a vast quag-
mire. As to tucker, there are wild cattle in
mobs, but they are to be obtained only by
working quiet cattle amongst them. By the
way, does “Van Tromp” know of the exist-
ence of a white man with the Staaten blacks?
He is about 70, and has two half-caste daugh-
ters. A few years ago I assisted my mate
to run this degenerate down in the vicinity
of the Rainbow Lagoons, but he apparently
had become beyond the power of converse.
He was of foreign appearance, with a ship
tatooed on his forearm, and as wild as the
wildest nigger I ever dropped on. We could
get no sense from him, and apparently he
remembered no white-man’s word except
“ ’baeca.”
(Continued on page 18.)
THE MORNING FACES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
While not altogether a fool,
I, who am a man and ready enough to see
The beauty of things that be,
The beauty of simple souls and their winsomeness
As a general rule,
Confess
That every morning I nearly lose heart again
When I gee the glowering huddle get into the train.
It may be that a special revealing
Of soul and self comes with the morning feeling
Before the zest of life has regained its appetite
After the staling inertia of the night.
Or that may not be it.
I have no infallible wit,
Nor can I pretend to know
Enough to set up with the psychological show.
I only know that devils lurk and crouch
In the morning grouch,
That these grim shapes that gloom upon me here
And make me lose all courage for the world
Are goodly folk just hurled
Down dank abysses of niggling cheap despair
Bv those old miseries that creep from their lair
W T hen humans greet the morn,
To catch (them by the hair,
And with sour thoughts forlorn
To embitter their waking cup
And shed; grey poison on their getting-up.
Ah God! the twaddle talked about dear Sleep!
But people are such sheep.
Some Socrates stertorously oozing words lots loose
A talk a,bout Sleep, sleep that consoles
All weary, desperate souls,
And then for centuries every casual fish,
Every glib, parroting goose,
Caught by a bait of platitude tells cheap,
Smooth, useless lies about this “gentle Sleep.”
Gentle ?—eh, pish !
Listen, sad fishes, prosers, stuttering wights!
Sleep is a stranger through one’s happiest nights ;
Whenever the ecstasies their brave game begin,
While the allurements make delicious din,
The night’s a wonder-world to be happy in....
To sleep were sin !
Sleep is the furtive robber that bears away
Half of our life and flings us on the day
Disconsolate.
Would you, sweetheart, be gay,
And kind, and mindless that the hour is late,
She comes along, this barren thief of night,
And drugs your leaping senses, and shuts tight
Your beaming eyes,
And drags you callously from hearts’-delight
And love’s dear wizardries,
Pours curdling poison your red veins to clog,
And leaves you like a log.
The pattering rain
Is sweet, but those dour faces in the train,
Those faces that press in upon my peace
And bid my best dreams cease
Their haunting music—ah, those faces sad
As squatting hates in a world gone heavily mad—
These are the faces of good souls that know
The thrilling hopes with pinions broad that sweep
The empyrean, and the omnipotent deep
Clear call of love, but now are drugged with sleep,
Marred by the claws of sleep, envenomed by
The thought of precious night that rascal Sleep
Has stolen, and so wasted past belief.
I shut my eyes and listen to the rain,
And thus forget the faces in the train....
Could all these faces live and glow, ah me!
What wit'hery!
N.S.W.
FRANK MORTON.


u
mi
M%v.v
KvX
v>>X*
••♦v
:*>:
$7
J\ \\
I
It
MBS
■:v: : : : <v>>v..♦ JJWMIiBBy
«^vX*>CT
!7
\
• IB4t
•»>:
FATHER had promised us an unusual
present this year and he always
r keeps his word. His gift to the _
family is to be a beautiful AEOLIAN-VOCALION. He*
could not keep the joyous news until the happy day. So
pleased was he with his purchase he just had to let the “cat
out of the bag.” So we are to have our VOGALION sent
out immediately and good music will be ours in plenty for
the holiday season and thereafter. He said there was no doubt
in his mind in choosing the VOGALION. Its superiority
over other instruments was at once apparent.
That is just one of the thousands of instances of
the famous AEOLIAN-VOCALION bringing
happiness and pleasure into the home. Music,
that mysterious substance of sound melody, is
truly, as the poet said, “ the language of the
soul.” It is a sort of celestial melting pot in
which our souls assemble and are refined, the
dross eliminated, and we are permitted to hear
momentarily, the pure metallic ring of our spirit.
No mortal can justly describe it, but in the
perfect musical expression of the marvellous
AEOLIAN-VOCALION it is possible for all to
FEEL and enjoy it.
M
Mi
.•.v.v.v.wK
vlvs/sslyy-i
Ml|>
'Or
W
/.vXv,’
I
Xvivi
SS»ft
W
■,w,v.v
;.y.
•v.v.
9
yyyyy
DANCING,
Songs, Recitations, Musical Instrument
Playing—ideal entertainment and a glori-
ously happy time is assured when
VO C ALIO N is the chosen present—The
only p u onograph with the ingenious
Graduola Tone-controlling Device.
>/.
Z'S
«//></* 'e? c o/' J * t!'e„ J
n* £oq>
**< w
J>
VOCALION CATALOG COUPON
Name.
Address
The Pianola Company Pty. Ltd.
“Aeolian” Registered Trade Mark
“The Centre for the World’s Greatest Achievements in Musical Instruments.”
384 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
And at — 252 Collins Street, Melbourne
436 Queen Street, Brisbane
Corner Rundle Street and Gawler Place, Adelaide


PATON
10688
Ibe DrinK of Ibe
Connoisseur —is
BRIfIDS
HHISKY
MELLON
To meet the
demand
TOOHEYS
Have brewed a
Special Stout
Equal to Imported.
TRY IT.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
“The Third”: The marine engineers are
likely to be the next body to cause trouble
on the coast. At a recent conference with
the owners an offer of £2 per month increase
to all grades was refused by the men. A
vote is mow being taken to consider further
action, and a general hold-up threatens. The
man down below deserves a better deal than
he has been getting. The new award for fire-
men has added to the worries of the chief,
who is responsible for all overtime, extra
payments, etc., and the chief naturally passes
some of his troubles on to the second, while
nowadays the junior engineer has to handle
firemen who in some instances draw more
pay than he does. Within the last six years
firemen’s wages have advanced 60 per cent,
(from £lO to £l6) ; meantime the highest-
paid chief-engineer has advanced a shade
over 10 per cent., and the juniors 29 p.c.
In America, the highest-paid chief’s wage is
fiv<j times that of his firemen, and in Britain
four times; but in Australia the ratio is only
2£ to 1, while the lowest paid chief on an
inter-State vessel comes down to to 1.
The unfortunate junior, though he has had
as a rule five years’ training, is in the
humiliating position of being rated at 10s.
per month less than the firemen of his ship,
whereas the American and British juniors
get respectively 1.8 and 1.4 times more than
the unskilled men.
* * * *
A honeymoon couple was sitting side by
side on the stern seat of a skiff one day
last week. The fishing-lines were dangling
loosely, and the lovers were enveloped in that
state of dreamy content, when suddenly there
was a rush and a swirl in the hitherto placid
water, and the pair gazed horror-stricken at
the white belly of a big whaler shark as
he flashed past the boat. Hubby valiantly
picked up air oar to do battle for his lady,
but the shark, nowise afraid, slewed round
the nose of the boat,
and, catching the kel-
lick-rope, gave it such a
pull as to all but upset
the craft. Then he swam
away. Even sharks get
tired of honeymooners.
SUBSTITUTE.
FIRST GRASS WIDOW:
“Did you miss your
husband when he went to the war?"
SECOND DITTO: “Oh, no! At breakfast. I
just stood a newspaper up in front of a
plate, and half the time I forgot he
wasn't there!"
“Count Rendered” : Until now Uncle Sam
hadn’t entertained a Prince of Wales since
1860. The States have been visited by
royalty mostly in its hour of trouble. Louis
Philippe, who ultimately reached the French
throne after a precarious existence as a
schoolteacher in Switzerland, arrived at New
York stone-broke, and the President lent him
money. Louis Napoleon, the Nap.’s grand-
son, and Joe Bonaparte, ex-king of Spain,
also visited as refugees, and the N’York
Legislature passed an Act permitting the
latter to buy a shack and settle down re-
THE THOUGHTS OF YOUTH.
“What ye mooning there for —thinking you're
a single woman again?"
“No, darling—just thinking what a nice
widow I’d make."
spectably. Louis kept bad company, and
wasn’t so welcome. His son arrived five
years after his dad had made an unregrettcd
departure, coming in the frigate he had com-
manded when it carried Bonaparte’s re-
mains from St. Helena to Paris. On a
later visit he served in the Northern army
during the Civil War, refusing salary. In
1871 the Grand Duke Alexis, fourth son of
the Czar Alexis 11., whom the Nihilists de-
stroyed, arrived with great swank and lived
under a heavy guard night and day. Queen
Victoria’s dad was also Uncle Sam’s guest,
but there were no royal receptions; and
King William IV. had a gay time over the
water during his prince days. An attempt
to kidnap him was frustrated by his own
neglect to lead a respectable life, the kid-
nappers’ plans failing because, instead of
being home in bed, he was out with the
lads. “Teddy Woodbine’s” immediate pre
decessor was Henry of Prussia, who received
the freedom of New York in a silver and
rosewood casket.
* * • •
According to lobby gossip, Squatter Jol-
ley Crooke, of the Vic. Uppah House, be-
came ruffled when fellow-worker Frank
Clarke, who rules in Local Government mat-
ters, upheld the decision of the Country
Roads Board declaring Seaspray-road, *in
Rosedale shire, a main road. The trouble
is that the Council, which now levies only
Is. 3d. in the £ on a low valuation, will
have to ante-up another twopence or
so in the £. When Clarke delivered
his decision Crooke said as testily as
a polite member of the Melbourne
Club could to a mate that the best
thing to do was for the shire council
to hand over “the whole thing” to
the Government. “Better not,” re-
plied the imperturbable Minister; “if
you do you won’t get off with a one-
and-threepenny rate.” The Country
Roads Board applauds Clarke, while
Rosedale thanks Heaven it has a mem-
her avlio will talk back to the Minister; so
honors are even.
* * * *
“Oliver T.”: With the approaching de-
parture of Archbishop Clarke, of Melbourne,
hope springs once more in the breast of the
“provincial” shepherd, Avho, after all, is only
human and likes a full supply of lamb-chops
as well as anybody else. Since the arch-
bish arrived the sovereign has depreciated
most frightfully ; but the bland old man, put-
ting his hand on his heart, can declare that
he has never embarrassed church finance by
giving a good lift to the salaries of the
clerical rank and file. Some of the back-
blockers now see a possibilitv of improved
conditions when the Archbishop gives up the
keys of the till.
* * * *
“Badila”: Is this the great Australia to
which, during four years of exile in Egypt
and France, I
dreamed to return
some day? Is this
the country that we
fought for, and for
whose liberty so
many of my own
good cobbers died in
France? To-day is
the anniversary of the
Russian revolution,
and all hands at a
neighboring sugar-mill
demand a holiday that
they may celebrate
the bloodshed and
chaos that the day
brought to Russia!
They are to hold a
procession through the
town that ' all may
know that they hope to
achieve the same
chaos here. I have
watched these men
and listened to their
talk. They speak a
mongrel Australian,
with languages o f
their o w n—German,
Turki s h, Gree k
Italian. A few speak
English. My store-
keeper is a Turk, and
flies the Union Jack
on the back of his 22-
knot launch. The boy
who cooks my food is
a Japanese; he who
brings it to me is a
Chinaman. The gang
of cane-cutters that
I see passing now are
Italian, and the man
who greases the cane trucks is a German.
Is this the Australia that I have returned to?
* * * *
“Rio” : The new rates of pay for British
army officers are, rank for rank, higher than
those in force in Australia, and with pension
and other allowances and privileges make
ours paltry by comparison. Further, the Aus-
tralian officer does much higher-grade work
than his English comrade of the same rank,
it being the usual thing for Australian lieu-
tenants and captains to fill appointments most-
ly held by majors or lieut.-colonels in Blighty.
In spite of all the increases in the cost of
living our permanent officer has not had a
penny rise since the rates were fixed 16 years
ago, but he has lost many privileges that had
a distinct cash value. Considering the big
part these men played in the organisation
and training of the A.1.F., the R.S.A. might
well take up the matter of their pay and
pensions, they being too few and scattered
for concerted action themselves.
* * * *
“Karim Khan”: What were the most pri-
mitive firearms used in the war? During
my sojourn in North-West Persia I was in
charge of a party of friendly Kurds who
brought their own rifles when they
enlisted. These varied in age and qual-
ity from new and serviceable to old
and very doubtful. Ammunition for
the latter consisted of used shells refilled
with inferior black powder and soft lead
bullets. One afternoon a nomadic tribe at-
tacked our outpost, and we were defending
for some hours. On my immediate right was
a seasoned warrior whose face early became
blackened by the back-firing of his old Mar-
tini. He blazed away cheerfully at every-
thing within a radius of two miles, till his
trusty relic began to emit weird and sickly
sounds. The barrel had become so heated
that the bullets were softening, and at each
discharge, usually when the hammer fell for
about the third time, molten remains splut-
tered out the end. I persuaded him next day
to trade the ruins to an enemy agent for two
milking-goats and some useful information.
* * * *
The risks that some optimists take in the
motor-launches that don’t have to come up
for survey got another advertisement a few
days ago near Newcastle. Four men were
in the boat when a pipe burst and the
escaping petrol fumes came in contact with a
lighted lamp. In the ensuing flare-up one
of the party dived overboard, while the others
battled to douse the flames, with kit-bags as
fire-buckets. They saved the launch and beach-
ed her; but the man who jumped into the
Pacific landed on the Golden Shore.
If the result of a charge of manslaughter
in the Central Criminal Court at Sydney
doesn’t encourage the road-hog to be more
hoggish it will only be because he needs
no encouragement. In this case a tram-
driver was found guilty of manslaughter as
the outcome of a collision between the car
he was driving “at an excessive rate of
speed” and a cart. The carter was killed.
The jury, in returning its verdict of guilty,
recommended the accused to mercy, where-
upon the Judge announced that the prisoner
(who by racing through the street “at an
excessive rate of speed” had slaughtered s.
citizen) would not be sent to gaol. He
would be sentenced to six months’ hard labor,
but the sentence would be suspended.
“Accused was then released.” The slaugh-
ttred citizen remains dead. And the habit
of wantonly endangering lives goes un-
checked.
Despite its reputation for sobriety and
always putting the cat out pt 10 o’clock
precisely, Adelaide can be casual enough. It
knows, for instance, that it had a founda-
tion-stone to its Town Hall once, but it
doesn’t know now where the blessed thing is.
It reckons it must have got covered up some-
where, if some rare roysterer didn’t use it
to throw at the' shadow of Melancholy. Or
perhaps the contractor used it somewhere
else. He happened to be also the Mayor of
the casual city at the time.
“Copabella”: Neither candidate, knowing
what his party really stood for, “policy” in
the campaign speeches in our district soon
disappeared in favor of personalities, and,
each having been a soldier (more or less),
the quality of the respective soldiering was
dragged in to make an argument. One
owned he had never so much as smelt a
battle from afar —not even the Battle of
the Wazir —and his opponent wasn’t forget-
ting to rub it in. Then rose a still loud
voice from the rear of the hall: “And what
battles were you in?” The unseemly inter-
rupter was ignored. The question shrilled
again plaintively; it Avas plain the ques-
tioner would not be happy until it was
ansAvered. The meeting agreed that the
query was a fair one, and said so. In a
stage-Avhisper the chairman thought it would
be as well to produce a battle or two —for
publication, if not, as a guarantee of good
faith. To the astonishment of all. instead
of boldly flinging his battles in the ques-
tioner’s teeth, the candidate referred
anxiously to a pocket-book for some seconds,
and then announced a clutch of four, not
at all familiar to chroniclers of the battle-
fronts. It may have been inspiration, for
the heckling had to stop—until the sceptics
could look up their war histories!
HORRORS.
THE ARTIST : “ They're post-impressions,
y’know.”
THE CRITIC : “But don’t you think it would
he better to call them after-effects ?”
Dear Bulletin,— -I possess a small but
valuable collection of curios, including a
golden sovereign, a four-wheeled Sydney
cab, a general servant and a shower of rain.
I would like to add a painfully-accurate par-
son. Several clerics of several sects are tak-
ing a hand in the election, and it seems to
me that in the job of seeing visions and
imagining facts and believing impossibilities
and receiving letters that weren’t written
and hearing things that weren’t said, they
beat creation. Their simple creed seems to
be: “It ought to be, therefore it is, even if
it isn’t.” Why can’t clerics be accurate, like
chimney-sweeps ? When one of them starts
in a moment of excitement to prove that a
nigger is bright blue, while the other says
he is green, the subsequent proceedings make
the hair of an ordinary publican and sinner
stand on end if theological argument has left
him any.—Yours, etc., Bildad.
METAMORPHOSIS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I do not like these city gills,
Who with strange dyes divert
Dame Nature’s good intent, whose curls
Are bought in bunches, and whose pearls
The dentist sells, whose skirt,
Too short for Rob Roy, up and down
All day incites the grinning town.
I went into the bushland fair,
And found a bright brown maid,
Her teeth her own, and all her hair,
And modest gowns she had to wear.
She milked the cows, nor stayed
To rag or jazz, and I could see
Here was the little maid for me.
I wed my modest, brown, bush fay,
And while I write my verse
At some jazz party she’s away ;
She wears strange hair for which I pay.
Her dentist is a curse,
And in a skirt designed to shock
She promenades the quizzing Block.
All women are alike unless
They never see the like, I guess.
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


i
01
S
VI
55
13
#■
tft'S.
3fl
''W
S
SSSSft
V\\
S
P.
v
as
iss
IliV
29.
»
J
m
m
.w
»,)
M
/
=?2
&
88
m
$
sxs
Mi
* iftP
«L&
ih
r~V
s§>=%
KS:
V
y
?
The Obligation of Success.
w
HEN a man has attained to leader-
ship—to a position elevated above
the rank and file—more is expected
of him ; more of fidelity, more of con-
science, more of all those aspirations
which feed the flame of high resolve.
Public confidence is hard-won and quickly lo§t.
The repository of that confidence must never fail.
The abyss of execration and contempt yawns beneath
the pinnacle of approbation and applause. To slip
is to plunge to destruction.
So with the great Company. To succeed in the World of
Commerce is to lay upon its own shoulders the burden of success.
Then it has won confidence. Then it has acquired reputation. Its
very name is a continuing promise which it must never for one instant
fail to honor. Default means, usually, commercial death.
It is just that the holder of public confidence should be judged by so
unrelenting a standard. Its words are no longer regarded as statements— they
are accepted as truths. Its commodities are received almost without persona
scrutiny or judgment—received in calm trustfulness that the bearer of a high
reputation will not be found wanting.
And so it has arisen that a name —such as Studebaker has come to
mean to the world something more than mere commercial ability; more than
simply the giving of this value for that measure of money. It has acquired t e
obligation of Success. And, always, it discharges, and must discharge, that
obligation.
The Studebaker Corporation of Australasia Limited,
Head Office for Australia: 177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney,
South Australian Branch: I Currie Street, Adelaide.
Turner Bros., 393 Swanston Street, Melbourne. C. C. 4M. A. Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Armstrong C. & M. Agency, Hay Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Adams, Limited, Christchurch, Palmerston North, Timaru, Wanganui.
ESTABLISHED 1852


SI
SLICE
PLVJ
THe
finest
TOBACCO
in .
two forms—
Plug-Slice
or
Ready-Rubbed.
EDGEWORTH
Hotel de Luxe .
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N;S.W.
A!ST IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL. Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS, surrounded by NATURAL
BUSH.
25 NEW BEDROOMS built over the water—
every room looking out to the Heads.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVIGE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty. Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from Mos-
man. Amphitheatre Swimming
Baths. Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
lariff from 12/6 per day or
£3/10/- per week.
Tel. Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
A Signal Success
The TOP-NOTCHScotcIt
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
AND NOW BROWN IS WONDERING.
BROWN: “I say, Williams, that backbiting
brother of yours is going about telling
lies about me.”
WILLIAMS: “You shouldn't worry about
that, old man. It's not lies that will
hurt a man like you!”
“Tarwin”: Allow me to introduce two
coming' Diggers, aged 11 and 12 respectively. After
getting tired of a job of minding calves at the Mel-
bourne show this year, they stowed away on a
cattle train and landed at Werribee. Werribee
didn’t seem to agree with them, so they walked off
to Geelong (46 miles). A week-end there resulted
in a, job picking peas at Moorabool, but after four
days’ toil they departed, per boot, for Ballarat (60
miles). A casual acquaintance in that town spun
them a few yarns about the fortunes awaiting
youthful fruitpickers in Mildura, so they decided
to meander along. A day or two’s strolling landed
them in Beaufort (30 miles), where a friend of
the elder lad came to light with some cash, and
the next train took them to Ararat. While enjoy-
ing a casual after-tea walk in search of a suitable
“sleep out” an unsympathetic policeman put an end
to the great adventure. A few telegrams established
their identity, and now they are back at the old
address, but I don’t kndw for how long.
“F.W.L.”: I’m in the ring to support
“Melos” (B. 6/11/’l9) in favor of the bloodwood
timber. For saw-milling purposes it is nearly use-
less, as it is too ringy, but for post-and-rail fences
and rough building purposes it is invaluable. It
is also about the best fire-resisting timber in the
Australian bush. The gum of the vegetable I have
proved to be a marvellous healer. Mate and I set
out on a ride from Mareeba to Georgtetown, a dis-
tance of 235 miles. On starting one of the mokes
had a bad back, but on reaching the first camp I
washed the affected part and then sprinkled some
powdered bloodwood gum over it. This was re-
peated daily, and on reaching our destination the
sore had vanished.
Aneb : “II.O.” (B. 6/13/’l9) talks about
Places where glanders is prevalent in Australia.
When did we get glanders? I’ve travelled every
State, inside and outback, in search of- prads, and
never yet heard of a man who has seen a true local
case. I had a lot of experience with the disease
in the Boer scuffle and tested many hundreds of sus-
pects with the “mallein” test—infallible—and not
a single reaction can I recollect among Aussie im-
portations when tested on arrival, though many
acquired it later. Glanders and dourein—equine
syphilis—are about the worst of horse maladfes,
and until “H. 0.” spoke I thought we were clear
of both.
* * * *
“Billy B.”: Now that you’ve all had a go
at distemper, let me give you the dinkum oil. Get
a small plug of dynamite—lyd. by 21 ft.—attach a
time-fuse, insert in dog’s upper mouth and give him
to a pohtician. P.S.—lf possible give him to two
politicians.
■ '* * * *
Gouger : Am camped in a dense tropical
scrub in Queensland, where the onlv dead trees are
rotten. Consequently you’d think we’d hav e heart-
rending difficulty to obtain firewood. But you’d be
wrong. Every green tree we’ve cut down so far
has burnt like a death-bed conscience. One yellow
wood smells like kerosene, and flames like that oil
Another reddish-hued vegetable exudes a sap lik.»
ar, and burns true to label. Very few forest trees can
be cut down and put at once on the fire with any
useful results, and this is the first scrub I’ve been
in where the growths are so accommodating. Tli*
phenomenon is especially remarkable because six
months out of the year rain is almost continually
Piwa”: Hobbs, the boozer, was the de-
bond th ° so « al - re «> rni cranks of the neighbor-
hood It happened that a scow lohded with gelig-
nite had foundered and gone to the bottom of the
rlver > ail( J in the interests of
navigation it was deemed advis-
able to raise the wreck. The re-
sult was a terrific explosion which
shook the universe and convinced
Hobbs, who was shaping- an
erratic course homeward, well
tanked, as usual, that the Last
Hay had arrived. Coming to
anchor as the awful significance
of the moment burst upon him,
Hobbs directed one appealing
glance aloft and collapsed in the
roadway. Then his anguish found
expression and he gave vent to
a torrent of prayerful entreaty
soliciting fervently thfe adjourn-
ment of his case and requesting
that he be given just one more
chance. help me, s’help me, J
he wailed, “one more chance,
s’help me, an’ I’ll never touch
another drop.” Several passers-
by, under the impression that a
tragedy had occurred, rushed to
the rescue, and matters were ex-
plained. Hobbs, very dazed and
much surprised to see the world
still in existence, gazed intent] y
round the horizon to assure himself that it was a
false alarm, then picked up his headgear and re-
traced his steps to the nearest pub. “By cripes
that was awful,” he murmured. “I thought it wa=
the end of the world.”
* * *
Barcoo”: Talking about long-distance
roving, Jack Skuthorpe a few years ago over-
landed 3100 bullocks from Wave Hill (N.T.) to
one of Buchanan’s stations near Charleville (Q )
Ooing out and coming in took a few days over 22
months The cattle came through without loss
fiom disease and were counted in three short of
the fuH number after allowing for “killers.” Drafts
of the animals, after a spell of six weeks, were
walked on to Bourke, between 200 and 300 miles,
triicked direct to the saleyards (500 miles) at
atrnned ’ 77 the market lucerne-
fattened cattle from the Richmond (N.S.W.).
L\ identic the Territory can hold its own in some-
thing more than ructions. By the way, after nearly
2o years’ experience of the profession, ] have never
found any except the dinkum born-Australian who
was the real blown-in-the-bottle captain of a drovino-
outfit.
THE HIGH GOST OF LOAGING.
“Do you think women ought to get more wages, Bill?”
“My oath, I do; a woman can't keep a man properly on what she gets.”
“C.L.M.”; Most Australians know that
certain fever-stricken areas in Italy were greatly
benefited by the growth of eucalyptus trees, but few
are aware that habitation in Rothschild’s Jewish
colonies in Palestine was made possible by the intro-
duction of our gum-trees over 30 years ago. Half a
million were planted in Hederah and great numbers in
the other colonies. The groves dried up the marshes
and provided Isaac and Levy with a commodity that
was previously not procurable on the spot—timber.
When our mounted troops entered the picturesque
villages of Duran and Richon in November, 1917, the
Diggers reverently removed their feathered slouches
in honor of dinkum exiled cobbers.
* * * *
“Cookie”: For many years I have used,
for distemper in dogs, nothing else but black
antimony, which can be procured at any chemist’s.
Before dosing the sufferer with the antimony lob
a dose of castor-oil into him Use as much an-
timony as will cover a shilling and wrap it up in
a piece of bread or dough. Three doses at 12-
hour intervals should be sufficient to cure; and if
taken when the first symptoms are noticed, one
helping will do the trick.
* * * *
Senex : My experience is. with scrub
timbers, and I say that, provided the tree is mature,
the posts from any kind of fencing timber will last
well, no matter what time of the year the tree is
cut. I heartily second “J.G.” (B. 16/10/’l9) when
he barracks for Aussie hardwoods. North Q’land
pender (Johnstone hardwood) is nearly as strong as
cast-iron, is good for all purposes above ground,"and
is not too hard to work; but one sees little of it
south of TowhsviUe. Of course the gospel according
to St. Importer says that nothing Australian is any
good. “Jack H.’’ scathingly asked a week or two
back if I knew that kauri took 70 years to mature.
Of course I do, but which is better—to give a 70-
years’ lease of life to a beautiful Australian native,
or two 30-year leases to a sombre and com-
paratively useless foreigner like pinus i-nsignis?
* * * *
.Tim Carew” : I know of only one tamo
dog taking entirely to the bush and making a do
of it. This was at Cobargo (N:S.W.). During the
coursing boom a local enthusiast bought a brindle
President Princess Dagmar dog from Captain Chris-
tiansen. While he was taking him out of the coach
the animal managed to slip his collar, and immedi-
ately took to the bush. He was seen in different
parts of the district plenty of times during the
next few years, and was always in good condition.
"L. and Tommy” : As a homer the camel
takes some beating-. A. W. Cocks, of Wilgena (S.A.),
bought-at Oodnadatta 45 camels that ha'd been bred
near Arltunga and had worked the tracks between
Oodnadatta and Alice Springs. After the purchase
they were taken to Hergott and worked there for some
months. They were then sold again and taken via
Port Augusta, Murat Bay, Eucla, Esperance and
Coolgardie to a station about 100 miles north of
Kalgoorlie. They broke away from there, and owing
to the water supply giving out the drivers could not
overtake them. Before Cocks received word that
the camels had cleared out he got a telegram from
the vicinity of Alice Springs that some of his camels
had been seen there, and about 25 are known to
have reached the McDonnell Ranges—probably they
all did. they must have gone straight home, cover-
ing over 1000 miles of country which they had
never previously travelled, most of it unexplored,
taking about seven weeks on the trip.
A.W.0.”: If there’s a competition for
hard-to-kill trees I’ll push the flame- or coral-trce
forward. I have seen these trees chopped down, cut
up, stacked on the stump and burned. When the next
ram came and soil was washed against the butts
they bggan to sprout. Pieces of branches thrown
into water will cast out roots. There is a very
large flame-tree growing in Clanalpine-street, Mos-
A DUD.
“Whatever’s wrong, you look awful?”
“Yes! I just tried to commit suicide in this
Japanese trap”
man (Sydney), which got there and made its home
in a strange way. The owner of the property cut
a walking-stick from the branch of a coral near-by
and, after using it for a few months, stuck it in
the ground as a support for flowers. That stick is
now about 100 ft. in circumference.
(Continued on page 22.)
FINE COMPANY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I tdl of no wonder
But this, and this only—
That once, being lonely,
I sought out tall gum-trees.
Slim saplings, their daughters,
And quested green alleys,
Grey ridges and valleys,
Till sudden I chanced on wet rocks and lit waters.
And there I found friendship,
And there, and there, dwelling,
A comfort past telling;
More sweet than to mingle
With men, met together
In hostel or highway
Or market or byway,
I found ’twas to gaze on green leaf and gay feather.
For up in the tree-tops
And down in the bushes,
The warblers and thrushes
With songs of life’s splendor,
The while the dews glistened
And little leaves dancing
Gave back the sun’s glancing,
Were charming grey Silence so much that she listened.
•
And there moved the waters,
As though ’twas their duty
To sing of the beauty
That bordered their pathway ;
And as they sang ever,
Their song silver-noted,
It seemed there up-floated
The far-away call of their mother, the river.
Boronian roses,
Half-hidden, half-showing,
Their pretty pinks glowing
From out their rock-shelters,
Smiled up at my coming,
While tasting and trying’
And pausing and flying.
The bee went his round of the wattle blooms hum-
mmg.
But, best of fine fellows,
The trees gave me greeting,
Grew glad at our meeting,
Bowed down, green and gracious,
As though we were brothers.
Tis thus, and thus only,
That one, being lonely,
May find a fair kinship, more sweet than all others.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


Two New Novels
%
by Australian Authors.
Is. each. Is. l£d. posted.
“A Game of Chance.”
By ARTHUR WRIGHT.
Mr. Arthur Wright is rapidly becoming the Commonwealth’s most popular author.
He already has the following novels to his credit: —
“IN THE LAST STRIDE.” “GAMBLER’S GOLD.”
“THE SPORT FROM HOLLOWLOG FLAT.”
“RUNG IN.” “A ROGUE’S LUCK.”
“THE BREED HOLDS GOOD.”
“OVER THE ODDS.” “UNDER A CLOUD.”
“WHEN NUGGETS GLISTENED.”
“THE HATE OF A HUN.” “THE OUTLAW’S DAUGHTER.”
Every one of these novels has been an instantaneous success. Like most of
his other stories, Mr. Wright’s latest, “A Game of Chance,” is strong in sporting
interest. It is a story of a daring attempt at impersonation. A Digger returns
to Aussie to discover that the Far-West station which was left to him while he
was on service has been wrested from him by an impostor. The thrifling experiences
of the Digger in establishing his claim make an intensely interesting volume.
“The Skipper of the ‘Roaring Meg.’”
By JACK McLAREN.
This is a great story of the Coral Seas by the author of “Red Mountain,”
the Northern Australian novel which made a big hit when published a few months
ago. Billy Certain, master-mariner, on his way to a rich beche-de-mer fishing-
ground, falls in with a dying trader on the Papuan coast. The latter makes a will
appointing Certain guardian of his seventeen-year-old half-caste daughter. No
white man was ever left a more embarrassing legacy than this half-savage beauty.
“The Skipper of the Roaring Meg” is one of the best novels of the year.
Is. each. Is. ljd. posted.
The same price as the other
100 Splendid Australian Novels in
THE "BOOKSTALL” SERIES.
Obtainable from all bookstalls and booksellers, or direct
from publishers,
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. Ltd.
476 George Street, SYDNEY.
THE LEVIATHAN Ready-to-wear
Riding Breeches and Trousers
Tailored from specially«selected Materials.
BIDING BREECHES.—III
hard-wearing Garbinette,
in olive or khaki shades;
self strapped, laced at
knees, expertly cut; splen-
did service assured;
ready-to-wear. Sizes 3
to 6 15/6
RIDING BREECHES.—
Mounted Service Style,
Tailored in Khaki Mili-
tary Twist. Sizes 3 to
7 30/-
JUDHPORE RIDING
TROUSERS.— In hard-
wearing serviceable Khaki
Drill; a useful style, com-
bining the design of rid-
ing trousers and riding
breeches, thus dispensing
with the use of leggings;
well tailored, with cross
pockets and belt loops;
ready-to-wear. Sizes 3
t 0 7 21/-
In Garbicord \ cj /g
RIDING TROUSERS— In
splendid wear-resisting
Khaki Drills. Suitable
for riding and general
rough work; cut with
ample seats for saddle
use; well-made and fin-
ished, ready-to-wear.
All sizes 12/6
When ordering, please give
these measurements — Height,
Waist lover Trousers), and
Inside Leg.
TAILORED-
TO-ORDER.
Leviathan Tailored-to-order Riding
Breeches and Trousers are
Unequalled for Service.
m
<
-. ■ I
j
RIDING
BREECHES,
As illustration,
per pair.
JUDHPORE
RIDIXE
TROUSERS,
(No Legging
required),
As illustration,
per pair.
RTDING
TROUSERS,
per pair.
In Khaki Drill 30/- 30/- 25/-
In Khaki Drill Cord 35/- 35/- 25/-
( Self Strappings. 5/- extra; Large Buckskin Strappings. 15/6 extra-)
In Military Whipcord 42/6 42/6 32/6
In Whipcord 55/- 55/- 45/-
(Self Strappings, 7/6 extra; Large Buckskin Strappings, 15/6 extra.)
G
WRITE FOR PATTERNS , Self-measure-
ment Chart and Tape.
Order by Post.
We Pay Carriage
Leviathan
Corner Swanston and Bourke Streets, Melbourne.
PLEASE NOTE—WE HAVE NO BRANCHES.
■
m
util
s.ffiwotT Frf iso.
piei.ftouiTf'ie.
block no 36
Listed on Lloyd’s Register, London,
as Manufacturers of
Steel Castings
CRUSHING SPARES
FOR ALL CLASSES OF
Ore Reduction
Machinery.
CAST STEEL—Battery Liners,
Cams, Heads and Tappets,
Tube Mill Ends, Gearing,
Truck Wheels, etc.
Cast Steel Rock-crusher Frame and Manganese Steel Jaw Faces.
CHROME CAST STEEL—For Battery Shoes and Dies, and also Roll Shells and Parts, which
“HEAT TREATED.” have to be machined but which are required to give a maximum
amount of wear.
MANGANESE CAST STEEL—For Rockcrusher Jaws, etc.
Send your INQUIRIES with SKETCHES and DETAILS to the MANUFACTURERS.
CHAS. RUWOLT PTY. LTD.
Victoria Street, Richmond, Victoria.
AGENTS FOR NEW SOUTH WALES: ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER AND CO., CIRCULAR QUAY EAST, SYDNEY.
AGENTS FOR QUEENSLAND: THE AUSTRALIAN MACHINERY CO. LTD., MARY STREET, BRISBANE.


The Secret of
a Beautiful Home
ROOFING TILES
WUNDERLICH MARSEILLES PATTERN TILES.
o
a
a
A
m
&
Made at our ROSEHILL TILERIES -
BRUNSWICK TILERIES - - -
EDWARDSTOWN TILERIES -
New South Wales.
Victoria.
S. Australia.
These Australian Tiles maintain their standard of quality; forming a reliable, artistic and weather-resisting roof.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED
SYDNEY:
56 Pitt St.
MELBOURNE
243 Collins St.
ADELAIDE:
113 Currie St.
PERTH
Lord St.
BRISBANE:
Amelia St., Valley.
HOBART:
131) Macquarie St.
LAUNCESTON:
71 St. John St.
“Aneb” : Another word about maul-heads.
It isn’t so much the timber, when you get amongst
suitable stuff, as the fitting of the rings and handle,
combined with constant reversing of the latter
when in use. After belting out many a toothpick,
I never go past a blue-gum limb for the head. Fix
rings truly, don’t swell with water to tighten, and
bore hole for handle when sober. For handles,
after using about 2ft. 6in. of hollow galvanised
piping I don’t trouble the bush. A misshit will
break a wood handle; the iron lasts for ever, and
is much more readily reversed.
A SLIGHT MISTAKE.
FEMININE VOICE (from inside): “Is that
you, dearest hoy?”
INEBRITED PARTY (in the wrong fiat):
“ Pardon , ma'am, my (hic) mistake. I’m
‘Is that you, you drunken beast?’”
“Pick”: Even when the kookaburra’s
loaded to Plimsoll he will pounce on any snake
that he detects in a favorable position for attack.
His method of fight is his safeguard against the
venomous darts of the squirmer. Always swooping
from a high perch he does not check the impetus
gained by his fall until he has seized upon his
victim, and the first twist of the beak appears to
have a paralysing effect that renders the rest of
the job easy. Should Jack miss upon the first on-
slaught, which he rarely does, the resounding crack
of his beak will hardly be heard before he is aloft
again ready for another fierce dive, and the rapidity
of the offensive seems to terrorise the land-eel.
AFTER LUNCH.
GENEROUS CUSTOMER (slipping him a threepenny bit): “I hope you don't mind?"
THE WAITER : “I accept your apology, lady."
“Ronno” : Willow is being used very ex-
tensively as drought fodder on the Northern Table-
land (N.S.W.). The vegetable has proved to be so
valuable that it has become known as tree lucerne.
It has this important advantage over many of our
edible shrubs that it rapidly recovers after being
lopped, and provides a second cut.
“Tally”: Old man G was regarded as
one of the best judges of stock in S. Aus. Some said
that if he looked over a flock of sheep and passed
any of them later in the day he would remember
them by their faces. At a big sale his judgment
was the subject of much debate, and Bill, a staunch
believer in his boss, offered to bet a fiver that a
secretly-marked animal passed twice through the
yards where the old man was counting would be
recognised. The bet was taken and a jumbuck sent
through, run around the back, and mixed with the lot
still to be counted. As it passed again the old man
made no comments, and Bill was asked to part up,
but not being satisfied he caught the animal once
more to give it another try. As it rushed through
for the third time old G- shut the counting gate
and bawled, “What the are you fellows doing
there? That’s the third time that sheep has passed
through here.”
* * * *
“C.L.M.”: Talking about the endurance
of the Australian horse, there was amongst those
that carried our weighty saddles and packs up the
precipitous goat-tracks of Moab in May, 1918, a
mare heavy in foal. When the young ’un was born
Brig.-Gen. Cox ordered that it should be kept gs a
mascot. Before 36 hours had elapsed the foal was
accompanying its mother and other “evacuated”
horses down the precarious lines of communication
towards Jericho, which was reached after 20 miles’
travel. The mare during the following six months had
the difficult task of rearing the foal whilst enduring
the rigors of the Jordan Valley, but she managed to
keep her condition with the help of a bit of buek-
sheesh feed. Her fate was the same as that of
thousands of others—shot after hostilities ceased.
* » » *
“Adelaide”: Is the ’possum known as a
tightrope performer? Last moon I saw one on a
telephone wire, 30 yards from any post or tree, and
in no hurry whatever to complete the passage. And
he was not using his tail to grip with, either; it
hung down straight.
“Hambone” : Once had a mare that never
passed a pub without halting, and a barbed-wire
whip would not shift her till the time had expired
for a man to “sink one.” The missus considered
me the personification of sobriety till one day we
came to an inn. The nag pulled up and as I was
endeavoring to persuade her that it was Sunday and
that the bars were closed, the blacksmith across
the road called: “Now then, mister, don’t make
the old mare out a blanky liar!”
“Gleniris”: The long arm of coincidence
made a hefty grab when recently a young heifer of
mine, tethered “on the parish,” heard the voice of
Mr. Strawberry in a remote paddock and started
hastily off to make his acquaintance. The stake re-
mained firm, but the tether broke —in two places
at once. The leather collar parted and at the same
instant the line broke, close to the peg. How
often would this be likely to happen in a century?
* * * *
“Harrison O.”: “Septem” recently asked
for something to put into troughs, dams, etc., in
districts where glanders is prevalent, and someone
signing himself “II.O.” (B. 6/11/’l9) suggests a
solution of chloride of lime. I protest against any
writer endeavoring to lend the weight of authority
to such advice by borrowing initials which have
become famous wherever the English language is
spoken or hiccupped. In my divaga-
tions around Poverty Point and Back
o’ Beyond the Eight Hours Monument
I have acquired considerable ex-
perience of glanders. A barmaid of
my acquaintance suffered from the
disease for years until she tried my
cure, since when she has put on a
stone in circumference, and is no
longer afflicted with that feeling of
emptiness between suppers, a ten-
dency to blush in the presence of com-
mercial travellers, and the other well-
known symptoms. Chloride of lime
is an old-falhioned remedy no longer
favored by the Best People. A book-
maker who tried it, after reading
the paragraph which he thought was
mine, died in frightful agony when
on the way to attend choir-practice,
and a lady who says she was his
favorite niece is demanding that I
should pay her a cash gratuity as'
compensation for the loss of her hus-
band. To any sufferer from glanders who w..t
municates with me, care of the Inebriates’ Retreat,
Lara, I will forward my prescription on receipt of a
stamped and addressed envelope and a grand, piano.
“Damper”: This happened out on the
Diamantina (Q.). Charlie, an abo., was chopping wood
with a tomahawk, whilst his little son, aged about
three years, was standing alongside him howling like
a young dingo. Mary yelled out from the gunyah,
“You makem Joe shut up. Him give Mary plurry
headache.” Charlie coolly tapped the kid on the head
with the back of the chopper. About 10 minutes
later one of the station-hands wandered up, and, see-
ing the boy lying stiff, said: “What’s wrong
with Joe?” “Oh, him all right; him get up soon,”
replied the loving parent. Some minutes passed, but
no move from Joe. “What’s the matter with him ?”
demanded the white man. “Oh, him give Mary
plurry headache. Charlie bin tappem with toma-
hawk. Him git up soon.” But on examining the
lad the station-hand found that Joe would never
get up again. That afternoon a John Hop rode in.
“Where is the lad you hit with the tomahawk?” he
asked. “Oh, I bin bury ’im Tonga gully. Me no
mean killem.” “Well, you come along with me, and
no funny business,” says the cop. “Well, me bring
Mary and the two dogs.” “You come with me, and
Mary and the two dogs!” In the lockup the
abo. pleaded pitifully for his gin and his two mongs.,
but all to no purpose. For a week he wouldn’t eat,
and howled all day and night for Mary and his dogs.
At last Mary was allowed in. As soon as she poked
her head inside the cell a yell came from the
prisoner: “Hello, Mary, you come in here longa
Charlie, and by , if you forgot those two dogs
I plurry well show you!”
“McNorth”: In the Gulf of Papua a very
decent bungalow can be erected for 20 fathoms of
turkey-red calico and one caddy of tobacco. The
work is generally done by natives on a kind of con-
tract ; all the white man does is to mark off the
square of the proposed mansion on the ground. Half
the population of a village will pervade the job,
which may be completed in a few days. Mangrove
saplings form the framework, and the roof is a thatch
of nipa- or cocoanut-fronds laid and laced in such
a manner as to afford the greatest security against
wind-storms and rain. The floor and walls are of
the boles of nipas split and tomahawked into some
semblance of flatness. No nails are used, all fasten-
ings being made with stripped lawyer-cane. And
there you have a neat little house, wide-verandahed
and high off the ground, which will lust for many
years. The only source of expense is an occasional
re-thatching of the roof.
* * * *
“Nulla”: In wet seasons (they do
occur sometimes), when depressions in the ltiverina
plains are converted into league-long swamps,
are plentiful. Owing to the lack of cove., '“>w-
ever, it’s mostly long-range shooting, as the biro-
fly up and down, unless a duck-hawk is knocking
around. This shooter’s mascot is about the
smallest of the tribe—body about starling size, but
he has great wing-spread and is a terror to his
neighbors. So dreaded is he that a piece of bark
tossed in the air when ducks are on the wing will
make them scoot for the water as if a four-homed
devil were after them. I picked up a teal that a
hawk had struck from a mob. It had been hit on
the base of the skull (whether by the pirate’s beaK
or the point of his wing I don't know), but it was
all the same to the teal. It was stone dead. The
hawk, probably owing to the t immunity given it
by gunners, was very tame. I got to within 10ft.
of him and he didn’t even mutter “Bolshevik!”
when I pouched his prize.
* * * *
“Hellish Reef”: Jamess, a Melanesian,
was night watchman on our packet, and one night,
wanting some tea, I whistled for him. As he was
some time in answering I walked along and saw
that he was not in his usual abode, the galley;
also, I noted that the fire was nearly out. At last
he came up smiling. “Kettle he boil, Jamess?” I
JOE : “I ’ear they been praying' for rain,
George."
G EORGE: “Gorn, I thought I sees a bit of a
mirage down the road."
asked. “No more, master,” was the reply. What
riame i' ou 110 lookout along kettle? You been sleep
think.” “Me no sleep, master, me walk about,
Fir e he sick; close up he die, finish. S’pose me
give _’im medicine lie orlright.” “What name
medicine you give him ?” “Oh, this feller here, he
orlright,” pointing with his big toe at the cook’s
tin of fat. In two jiffs he had doctored the fire
an d produced the tea.
A GOLDFIELDS TOWN.
[For The Bulletin.]
A lot of little dusty lanes
And houses built of tin ;
Around about, some dirty drains,
And everywhere an inn ;
A thousand mangy-looking dogs,
Of every age and breed,
And windlasses of mulga logs
On an alluvial lead.
Some flannels and some dungarees
Hung out on every line,
With many patches on the knees
Through working in the mine;
And half a thousand heaps of quartz,
Of granite or of clay,
As well as dumps of other sorts
That should be cleared away.
Here every chimney has its own
Original design,
For they have nearly always grown
From “scraps along the mine.”
“Coolgardie coolers” near the door,
A water-bag at hand,
And filter-press along the floor
To trap the flying sand.
Old fossickers with dolly-pan
And corks about their hat,
And shakers built on every plan
Work up and down the flat ;
And when the creaking cradles wear
Away the useless “blind”
They scratch among the rubble there
To see what they can find.
And when stray abos. come around,
A pack of curs in tow,
The township mongrels all are bound
To start a willing go;
The cadging lubras scatter cut
A hundred yards ahead,
And at each kitchen door they shout:
“Boss, gibbit bitta bread!”
Then in the night when oil-fed lamps
Illuminate the town,
The thunder of the battery stamps
Goes rolling up and down;
And off about a mile away,
The abos. have their fires. . . .
And having closed another day
The goldfield town retires.
N.S.W.
HOWARD KNAPP.


Mr. C. W. KORNER (South Australia)
HO&
n
o
□
□
©
19 hours.
35 mins.
New Motor Cycle
Road Record from
TO
□
over mountains—across desert sands—rough bush tracks—lagoons, &c.
on an “Indian” motor cycle shod with Australian-made “Railroad
After many attempts by a number of motor-cyclists, Mr.-C. W.
in breaking 20 hours for the Adelaide-Melbourne overland route—thereby winning
the gold watch donated by this Company to the first rider
to accomplish the feat. The 580 miles were negotiated in
19 hours 35 minutes. Dunlpps played an important part in
this great ride, giving not the slightest trouble. It’s the
same old story—Dunlop quality and
workmanship live up to their great
reputation for service and depend-
ability. When you desire staunch-
ness with reliability and economy,
one make of tyre that will
up to all requirements—the
r <ssafta' “SI
ra nr. iw-s-Jl
CL Sr 3 "3
o
O —as*
(Fir*
p* 3 fc=|
g ,M “ ,, ~* |k^
Look at the condition of the Dunlop
“ Railroad ” cover on the driving wheel,
photographed upon arrival. Not a cut—
hardly a mark—and certainly little wear,
and this after carrying a 14 stone rider
from capital to capital at an average speed
of nearly 30 miles an hour.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
AND N.Z.
ALL STATES
*%<
i


“A Wonder at the Price.”
Four users of the Fairbanks Morse
TYPE “Z” KEROSENE ENGINE give some
interesting facts, and there are
lots of others who all say the same.
YOU LL find Type Z Engines in every corner of
Australia giving never-failing service and saving money
for their users, because they only want kerosene fuel.
The smooth, steady drive makes the Type “Z” universally
favored for sheep-shearing plants, and their general perfection
enables them to stand the racket of being switched from one
farm machine to another without giving trouble.
The Type “Z” is a quick starter, because it has a high-grade Magneto Ignition—no
fooling about with cells or blowlamps. The Throttling Governor quickly adjusts
the engine to suit the varying load, and there’s a Speed Regulator that you can
operate even when the engine is going full tilt. Kerosene fuel is automatically fed by
a special pump, there s a simple positive lubricator system, and last but not least
every Type Z carries a supply of power over and above its rating.
In the Type Z engine, the celebrated Fairbanks Morse Co. have produced the
greatest power plant ever offered to men on the land or who desire cheap, reliable
power for any work.
I2* 3,6, 10, 15 8.H.P., Stationary or Portable.
Write to nearest of the following for booklet and prices.
DANGAR, GEDIE & CO., LTD., 9-13 Young Street, Circular Quay, SYDNEY.
J. BARTRAM & SON PTY., LTD., 583-586 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD., 99 Eagle Street, BRISBANE.
JAS. WARDLE, LTD., Victoria Square West, ADELAIDE.
MALLOCH BROS., 52-54 William Street, PERTH.
A. G. WEBSTER & SONS, LTD., HOBART.
v""-' ;
■ .
mm
m
m
HERE. ARE FACTS FROM
SEVERAL TYPE Z USERS.
SIMPLICITY—Mr. F. D. McMaster, Dalkeith,
N.S.W., says: “The Fairbanks Engine is
simplicity itself.”
EASY STARTING—Mr. W. R. Moore,
Moorabie, Walgett, ,N.S."W., says: “I have just
completed a run of four weeks’ shearing with a
6-h.p. Fairbanks Morse Type *Z, and never lost
a blow through engine trouble; nor did it refuse
to start after the first few turns on the coldest
morning.”
RELIABILITY— Messrs. Lindley Walker &
Co., Ltd., Sydney, say: “We have ten (10) of
your Fairbanks Morse Type ‘Z’ engines in use
driving our Wheat Elevators at the various
depots throughout the State. These engines are
in almost daily use, some of them since Jan.,
1918, and we have found them thoroughly
reliable, and economical on fuel. Our gangs
have elevated about 5,000,000 bushels since
January, 1918. We have tried other makes of
engines and replaced most of them with the
Type ‘Z’ Fairbanks Morse, which shows that
we think the engine thoroughly satisfactory.”
ECONOMY—Mr. Fergus Leonard, Comban-
ing Siding, via Temora, N.S.W., says: “The
Type ‘Z’ engine works on kerosene and is very
economical. We used less than 13 cases of
kerosene in shearing 15,000 sheep!” This
means only one-fifth of a penny per sheep
shorn. Think of it!
an unfinished sentence. Mechanical en-
gineers became valuable in England on
August 4, 1914, and literature was sus-
pended for other urgent work. The winter
of 1916 brought the ultimatum, and the re-
corded diaries of that household's head
ceased on January 15. 1917.
He stood quite alone in English letters.
He broke nearly all the rules, and yet each
book is a finished work in the art of literary
expression. Into an enormous crowd of
commonplace people he takes the reader
(who Avill be a member of the family by
about Chapter III) on a leisurely, ambling
journey whose end is the solution of some
totally unimportant mystery. Dramatic
scenes are as conspicuously absent as climax.
\ ery delicate detailed work is devoted to an
irrelevant matter which, by all the rules,
should not have been introduced at all. As
often as not the main scene is described in
the third person after the event. Hardly any
of the characters have definite personalities,'
with the occasional exception of a dog or
a small boy. The plots sag; intermediate
incidents crowd in, obstructing the theme
and irritating and exasperating the reader.
The stories have no beginning and no end;
they just go on. Much of the leading inci-
dent gets to the reader perfunctorily by way
of the overheard conversations of super-
numeraries. Of the literary style hardly
anything too viciously adverse can be said.
Yet all the people in the crowded canvas
become personal friends and relations from
the moment Do Morgan’s magic pen has writ-
ten three sentences of their thoughts. That
is what lie deals in—the thoughts of common-
place people, ill-written in fumbling, most
illuminating Avords. The books stammer
through the endless broken sentences of the
half-formed thoughts of hundreds of people.
Each excellent book fighting through a wash
of second-rate material is a faithful record
of the uncertain broken thoughts of its
people. The touchstone is threefold, sim-
plicity, sincerity and sympathy. I am sorry
for the alliteration, but those are the only
Avords that will do. The wisdom and kindli-
ness of old age were added to the artist’s
secret; and no one could demand a better
equipment.
The result is admirable, of course,
and most engaging and “stimulating.”
Hut as a member of the De Morgan
household since that ghastly six Aveeks
in Buenos Aires, I keep my picture
of an old gentleman telling me a long
and interesting yarn by his comfort-
able evening fireside—a story which needs
no end or beginnimr, no style, no incident,
no drama and no climax. A personal story
Avhich he picks up for me every evening.
Avhich waits for us both, which is not marred
by plot-interruption or false direction, and
Avhich might at any moment, and without
harm, cease upon an unfinished sentence.
HILARY LOFTING.
Mynheer van Schnapps
Scraps of Dutch literature, semi-official
and otherwise —-and not very well written
literature —begin to drift in, their purport
being that Codlin is the friend, not Short;
and that in any question between Belgium
and Holland the latter (Codlin) should have
the benefit of the doubt. Holland, Belgium
and the Powers, by Professor A. A. 11.
Struycken, member of the Dutch Council of
State, begins unhappily. Says Professor
A.A.11.5.:
Without the assistance of the Powers, relying on
their own strength only, the Dutch nation regained in
the years 1813 and 1814 their ancient independence
within the territories of the former United Provinces
under the sovereignty of the House of Orange, with
which their fortunes had for centuries and by their
own free will been most closely bound up.
This suggestion that Holland licked Napoleon
single-handed is the keynote to the book. The
Lord has given the Dutch a good opinion of
themselves.
In old days Holland belonged to Ger-
many. Its House of Orange came from
Germany, though it took its title from
France by marriage, and the outside sym-
pathies of the country, so far as it has any,
are largely German. The present queen
has a Hun husband, and had a Hun grand-
father. During the late war "Holland was
neutral in theory and as much Hun as it
dared to be in practice. It sheltered the
Kaiser on high, neutral, moral principles,
while Denmark and Spain cold-shouldered
fleeing Hun criminals who wrote to inquire
about board and lodging. ■ The end of the
war and the general settlement woke up
very old disputes as between Belgium, our
ally, and Mynheer van Schnapps, the neutral
host of the Kaiser. In 1814 and 1815, when
the diplomatic prigs and Pharisees of Europe,
were settling everybody’s business as badly
as possible, Holland and Belgium, both frag-
ments of Napoleon’s empire, had to be con-
sidered. Belgium had been conquered from
the Holy Roman (afterwards Austrian) em-
peror. Holland had been conquered from its
own Willem IV., the second hereditary
Stadtholder (there was no king)—a person
who ran for his undignified and slipshod life
without firing a shot. The country had had
a spell of greatness and acquired great
colonies at the time when the world was
to let unfurnished, but the spell was short
and the slump awful. The prigs and
Pharisees united Holland and Belgium under
the son of the swift runner because it was
the easiest thing to do and the worst thing.
Belgium was of French sympathies. It had
been part of the domains of old French
kings of the Capet and Valois vintage, and
later it belonged to the French dukes of
Burgundy. In one of its spare moments it
supplied an emperor to Constantinople Hol-
land, in one of its spare moments, sunnPed
an emperor to Germany. In the combined
State Belgium found most of the population
and the wealth, while Holland found the
capital, the partly-Hun monarch, most of
the Government and any bumptiousness
that was wanted. After 15 years the
Belgians had more than enough and
the partnership was dissolved, the Dutch-
men, as usual, getting the best of
the deal. They retained an irritating
scrap of land on the south of the Scheldt so
that no Belgian can get out of Antwerp, the
third greatest port of the world, without
being annoyed by passing through Dutch ter-
ritory. This position was long used to block
Antwerp’s trade entirely. Also they secured
a bit of Limburg butting into Belgian ter-
ritory. Holland is a rampart of Protestant-
ism, but the border provinces of North
Brabant and Limburg are almost wholly
Catholic, like Belgium.
The Schnapps people are a patronising
folk in their small way. Thus Prof. A. A. H
Struycken fortifies his position by saying
that when Holland had Belgium joined to it.
in 1815 "this increase of Dutch territory”
(he regards Belgium as losing its identity
and becoming pure Schnapps) “was granted
on certain burdensome conditions, viz., at the
expense of several colonies. ’ The other way
of looking at the matter is that Holland
became part of Napoleonic France and lost
all its colonies while fighting for France,
but, partly through Britain’s maudlin sym-
pathies over the memory of William 111..
Bntam returned many of them. Holland
duln t give anything for Belgium, but it got
back a lot with Belgium. And it didn’t
even return the magnificent royal service of
gold plate which William of the Boyne stole
rom London and took to his own country,
where it remains to this day.
J. E.
A Satchel of Books
Boronia Babies, by May Gibbs (Angus
and Robertson). Another little booklet by
the inventor of the Gum-nut Babies. The
illustrations, which are nine-tenths of the
whole effort, are fanciful; and they will
make many a little Australian want to be
told a story about it.
The Art of John Kauffmann (Alex.
McCubbin and Co., Melbourne) gives further
support to the suspicion that the camera
has an eye of its own. Mostly confining
himself to landscape and atmospheric effects,
Kauffmann realises in the monotone of
photography most of what the best painter
produces by soulful intention and selective
vision. Indeed, few painters with their full
palettes could present the enchantment and
mystery which Kauffmann’s camera achieves
with the unlikeliest subjects. He takes a
scrap of ti-tree, without apparent interest or
beauty to the ordinary observer, and, photo-
graphing it carefully in a suitable light, shows
it suddenly flung to Heaven with a gesture
of startling melancholy. Added to his power
to rob plain things of their everydayness,
Kauffmann possesses the technical know-
ledge to make every print an impressive per-
formance. . Connoisseurs of art, whatever
the medium, will appreciate his photos of
gums, but his rare decorative faculty is
visible even in his arresting views of Mel-
bourne entitled “Thro’ the Fog” and “The
Grey Veil.” Incidentally the accompanying
description of his art and career, by Leslie
H. Beer, is full of information and sound
commonsense.
,J h f Governor's Man. by J. H. M. Abbott
(Bookstall I ty., Melbourne). This is
an interesting yarn of the days of
Governor Bligh, The characterisation
is particularly good, and the atmos-
phere of Old New South Wales is
admirably created. John Carnford, “the
Governor’s Man,” is a convict as the result
of circumstantial evidence and the loose
methods of the time. There is a strong love
interest in. the book, and a cliff tragedy is
vjvullv painted. The illustrations are by
Jim Hannan.
The Escanades of Ann. by Edward Dyson
(Bookstall Pty., Melbourne). Here is plenty
of humor, and good humor at that. Ann is ii
very attractive person; and whether you find
it possible to believe in her or not does not
matter a fig. She runs from surprising
adventure to adventure, and all the time
does and says .the thing you are least expect-
ing. r I lie telling of the yarns is very fresh
and attractive. The book is Dyson at his
second-best— a very good second best. Ann
is an excellent pal for a railway journey.
The Inky Way
“Sol. Malaprop”: The real journalist is
the man who knows how to say something
new, and to prove it.
C. W. Clarke, who for a time held the
rudder of the Labor sheet in Hobart, has
now taken over the Launceston Telegraph,
“Azac”: Needing certain science petiodi-
cftls I made inquiries of three Sydney bodk-
sellers. The difference in the prices has left
me gasping : —-
Mo. i No. 2 Mo. 3
Veterinary Journal . ; 30s. i§s. iss;
Livestock Journal . ; 265. 265: i?9s.
Analyst 425. 265. yds.
Nature 525. 555. 565.
Journal Soc. Chemical
Industry 555. 455. 555.
American Agriculturist 13s. 6d. 6s. 6d. 12s.
Feathered World . . 13s. 245. 21s.
Is somebody profiteering in wlut are “tools
of trade” to many persons?
The Rupert Brooke Literary Prize of 25
guineas demands the attention of Austra-
lian and Maoriland war poets. It is offered
In commemoration of peace by the Old Col-
legians’ Assoc, of Melbourne Presbyterian
Ladies’ College for a poem entitled “Gal-
lipoli.” The epic must not be less than 150
or more than 800 lines; judges, Prof. Wal-
lace, Archibald T. Strong, and Oliphant,
of Melbourne Shakspeare Society; closing
date, March 31. The P.L.C. Old Col-
legians propose to award prizes in future
years for prose and plays.
“G.F.”: “Zanthus” (B. 2/TO/T0) re-
marked that Smollett was once a ship’s sur-
geon, but was probably not much of a
doctor. Two weeks later lie corrected him-
self by saying that he referred to one of
Smollett’s characters and not to Tobias him-
self. Why didn’t he stick to his guns? He
was right in the first statement. Tobias
Smollett acted for a time as surgeon’s mate
to H.M.S. Cumberland, but soon got sick
of the sea, and afterwards settled down in an
alley that has sine® become famous in Lon-
don, but which, owing to its narrowness and
out-of-the-wayness, would be the last place
where one in a hurry would look for a Crack
midwifery man—Downing-sti'eet.


STORAGE
BATTERY
Willard Threaded Rubber Insulation
——
'
... ,n I n .«. I IVI ; iaJi «*»».
—t™t
am
:
S;:V '
V
. , f >»
ii
.......................
gplf} * JBtJL - A
m?.:-, ...... illi! .-.
mm
mr
mA *$
wm&k
*r*
K|&ft
Hf
~,,,, .
I
:
Biljilag
■
HHSn^R
SMW
ImKm
BHI
mm
Pi&V?'' *
> *
' ' 1
,
’ I
■' •
lIS
Bhb
m
1111
.
flip|§§.
■
flip#
■Bl
IfißlifS
Bl
■
wHEHHm , *
■
HII
#
'.4^*lB
■
#! I HI
S.. 4
'W!kWw- P% -9B '4i &-1 ' H
■ -
• «ff*«S .
,
■ ■
• •..'•■• . ■’
v
■
*
IttilM
lllii
L■» . :
\ IHL -.jK
jfcfljl
ijt.W;x» r .. r t - --, - ■ . _
I
Si
ißilili
• •
u . l|
afes^}
■
• ■•.
. :' : < V
V
.
.
m
jaga#®****** '
*** 4” r • * -• <*■
i£su. . - ' > A
wmamm
•'_• .ill
wmmm
«S3s«
MU
; .
tiMiA , . d
.
i
*V^i
"v:...
;. .
m
The boss often says to me, “You can’t control the way a man
feels when he drives into this place—he may be paying a friendly call
to get information, he may be towed in because of battery trouble, he
may be happy, or angry, or half-way between.
“But one thing you can always do; send him away satisfied.”
And that smy job. When the job’s done it will be done right.
If you want advice, if you want service, if you want repairs, if you need
a new battery, come to battery service headquarters.
No one can have your interest more at heart than the company
who first organised trained battery service, whose batteries are
installed by the great majority of American car builders, and who
developed the Bone Dry Willard with Threaded Rubber Insulation.
Willard Service.


■ ■A \
P
\\
mi
peiwf
You will find fhe best - possible
'advice fo SKeepowr\ers.
j tdydtuy
That Car Radiator
is Always Giving
You Trouble.
*3
Why not send it
to Brandt’s, who
will put it in Al
order or make
you a new one?
We also make Motor-car Acetylene
Generators, Lamps, Carburetter Floats,
etc.-
Best Swedish Carbide stocked in all
Granulations.
BRANDT BROS. LTD.,
“Radiator Manufacturers,”
236 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And 338 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
ta-maas
! /Sfe &±^ss
THE. WORLDS
yea BEST VALUE
S/ieefonq®
The Evergreenßairnsfather
in
tt
FRAGMENTS
»»
A Weekly Illustrated Paper Edited
by
Captain Bruce Bairnsfather
Now ready.
3d. per copy—l7/6 yearly (including
postage).
SPECIAL FEATURES:
“Old Bill’s Letter,” “Periscope Pars,”
“Barks from the Barracks,” French
“Fags,” “Sport Spasms,” “Sky
Scrapings.”
And numerous full page and smaller illus-
trations in Bairnsfather's inimitable style,
style.
A LAUGH FROM COVER TO
COVER.
Also
“THE LONDON GRAPHIC” —England’s
leading illustrated weekly—all the latest events of
the Great Metropolis picturised.
Single copies, 1/-. Yearly, 63/-
Including postage.
“LONDON BYSTANDER.”
Overflowing with bright paragraphs, illustrations and
cartoons on all the topical events of the day.
Single copies, 1/-. Yearly, 63/-
Including postage.
“DAILY GRAPHIC”— empire edition.
Five papers in one. Each week’s issue of the
“DAILY GRAPHIC” bound under one cover con-
taining 100 pages and 150 pictures, of all the
events of the moment.
Single copies, 9d. Yearly, 50/-
Including postage.
Lodge your orders early at any Booksellers or
Stationers.
Gordon & Gotch (Australasia) Ltd.
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
M
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
o H AS,
BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade ZitlC Dust— Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES —Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS^
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited
“Collins House,” 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sydney Agent:
R. N. KIRK, 23 O’Connell Street.
Adelaide Agent:
C S STOKES, 62 Brookman Buildings.
THE, PALACE HOTEL,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OF PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
JOHN T. GLOWREY, Proprietor.
SSSSS^
7\
a
o
i ■ i
Sj_ AcE^i
■ TRowt.w D:>
Bku««t ruiw" , '“*li
yTßfcsJs.V^
The King of Table Waters
Once you have sampled it you will be enthusiastic over it.
You will be glad to recommend it to your friends. Koomah
is rich in curatives, containing' lime, soda, lithia and
- . magnesia.
TRY A
GLASS
WITH
A SLICE
OF
LEMON,
Agents—
E. ROWLANDS
pry. ltd.,
Purveyors to
Vice-Royalty,
Melbourne,
Ballarat,
Sydney and
Katoomba.
British:
All
The
m
Z
LIGHT GAR
The Car for the Owner-Driver.
Send Ycur Inquiry for early delivery
to Agent:
k I. PHIZACKERLEY, >
SYDNEY
MOTOR
CO
LTD
STANDARD
Coventry, England
Mixing and Sifting Machines
Complete Self-Raising-
Flour Plants.
Feeding, Mixing and
Conveying Plants for
Manures and Chemi-
cals.
Package Packers.
Concrete Mixers.
Rolled Oats Cookers
and Steamers.
Bag Hoists.
Combined Grinding,
Collecting & Sifting
Plants.
Baking Flour Mills.
Roller Mills.
Pulverisers.
Disintegrators.
Centrifugal Dressing
Machines.
£T *|J
-ymmi :m
.
High-speed Sifters for
Hand and Power.
Dustless Sack Cleaners.
Dust Collectors.
Bottle-filling Machines.
Rough Breakers.
Chilian Grinding Mills.
Beef Hoists.
Boiler-feed Power
Pumps.
Steel Conveyors.
Cast-iron Spiral Con-
veyors.
Belt Trippers.
Belt Carriers and Re-
turn Idlers.
Barrel Elevators-
No. 14 Size Heavy-duty Mixing Machine, with Rough Crusher & Removable Sieve.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES, POST FREE.
Schumacher Mill Furnishing Works Pty. Ltd.,
PORT MELBOURNE, VICTORIA. k.
The cost of the Commonwealth Egg Police
for last year was £3366, and the estimate for
the current year is £7OOO-odd. There’s no-
thing left of the Warwick egg now but the
sliell-out.
Gilruth is going to Texas on his way back
to Australia. Lest there should be any mis-
unuerstanding, it should be explained that his
ex-Ex.*the Horse Doctor of Darwin is going
to pick up some wrinkles on ticks and not
on guerilla warfare.
Just 50 years ago Bishop Gallagher, of
Goulburn (N.S.W.), came to Australia as
a priest. Twenty-four years later he was
appointed coadjutor to Bishop Lanigan, and
after five years succeeded to the bishopric.
He ranks probably as Australia’s finest Greek
scholar.
In the boom time of 18S8, on the death,
of “Money” Miller, the Old Exchange, with
its 54-feet frontage to Collins-street, was
valued for probate at £152,550. The Com-
monwealth Bank the other day paid £70,000
for the Old Exchange, and £25,000 for Fin-
don House at the rear, or £57,550 less than
the probate valuation of 31 years ago.
So profitable is rabbit-trapping in Vic.
that a 12-year-old youngster up Pakenliam
way earned enough at it after school hours
to buy a pony, jinker and harness to take
himself and his younger brother and sister
to school. Previously they had to walk six
miles a day. He says it will be “dead easy ’
to make enough to pay for pony feed and
repairs.
11. D. Mclntosh’s scheme of making V.C.
winners free of the premises is being fol-
lowed elsewhere. For instance, a “Country
Club,” the first in England, has just been
started at Hendon, the great flying-ground
near London. The committee contains all
sorts of distinguished people, from Winston
Churchill to the Duchess of Westminster.
Any V.C. officer who won his distinction in
the Navy, or while flying, is, ipso facto, a
member. Not, it will be observed, the mere
infantry V.C., who in some cases, however
exalted his military rank was —well, he
might address an Earl as “choom ! The
motive is, of course, the same with the Coun-
try Clubites as it is with the Tivoli mag-
nate —plain advertisement.
Charles Mullaly, who says he was born
in Sydney 100 years ago, that lie fought be-
side Peter Lalor at Eureka and was alto-
gether a devil of a fellow at the Ballarat
rebellion, that he was the pal of Adam Lind-
say Gordon and liorse-owner, jockey and
other things, has gone into the Benevolent
Asylum at Cheltenham to spend Ins last
days. He called on Lawson to redeem a
promise to find him a home when he asked
for one. The Premier was busy, and a.n
officer took the matter in hand. If the OJd
Colonists’ Home is not for men like Mullaiy
it is hardly true to name. A berth there
and a State compassionate allowance to sup-
plement an old-age pension, if he has one,
would seem more like the right thing.
Frank Moulden, the new Mayor of Adel-
aide, is the last of the “society” youths who
unexpectedly stood for the City Council
from 15 to 20 years ago. A city-father is
proverbially elderly as well as fat;
were young men with fathers, much bettei
known than themselves. Lavington P° a y _
thon set the fashion, and was quickly fol-
lowed by Alan Simpson, John Baker and
Moulden. Alfred Roberts and fi. B. Wil-
kinson were other comparative juveniles but
they dropped out in a year or two without
going to the mayoral chair. Baker stood
for it when his turn seemed to have come,
but was unexpectedly opposed by the veteran
Cohen, and, being beaten, gave up muni-
cipal work. Bonython and Simpson have
been mayors, but Moulden held bac ,
nrobablv because he was a bachelor—
though born in 1876. Lately he married
the Perth lady who prefers to retain the
courtesy title she gained from AVinthrop
Hackett, her first husband; and the Lord
Mayoralty of the coming year is expected to
glitter.
“P X.”: Remote Sydney suburban land
having been sold up to £lB per foot, a well-
meaning citizen wrote to the papers to re-
mark that he was afraid prices were fic-
titious—he had lately seen land sold by
auction at £5 per foot,, and alongside,
handier to the railway and in a better situa-
tion, there was old subdivision land to be
had privately for £3 per foot. That is very
likely. A subdivision co., wanting to turn
a “dead” investment into a live one, otters
land on long and easy terms; and because
the bidder has to put up only 10 p.c. of the
purchase-money, he keeps on nodding. It
doesn’t take more than one man of that sort
to fix the price which is squeezed, out of
hundreds of people with cash in their hands
for land they really want. In the same way
a quoted Stock Exchange price is often a
fancy price paid for a mere handful of
shares- —50 or 100—and if 5000 were put on
the market the last of them wouldn’t fetch
half as much. There is a land boom; and
bloated figures, due to special circumstances,
are the commonest means employed to make
it more furious.
THE PROFITEER DEFEATED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Trade forecasts increased prices for all
classes of underwear.” —Sydney News.
“The blighters!” said Pressy to Annabel May:
“They’ve shoved up the figure for lip-salve again.
Life’s sheerest necessities, day after day,
Go leaping aloft and all protest is vain.
A hat is a fiver that once was a quid.
Silk stockings have risen a hundred' per cent.
While gloves made of something quite different
from kid
Cost Heaven knows what —whether flawless or
rent.”
“You’re right,” agreed May; “and now undies in-
price
Have just about doubled! I bitterly cried
On reading the news, and my blood turned to ice.”
To which her friend, calmly triumphant, replied:
“Ah! there I have got them. I never wore much
Ere cheapness departed beyond all recall —
Just silk-edged, with fragments of torchon and such.
But now —well, I’ll simply wear nothing at all.”
N.S.W.
D. J.


mm
.
I
V :
Hi
HB. •
■
-
P
... ■ ~: : ,
m i
;. '.U
m gm
, :■
I'll ail
)
i 1 ■
£w#.rlslr ‘
fWSBWBKwMW
aammmm
if 4 ' ~t ' ••
l4k
■
SIHHHi
; *: i-
a £■&
. ;
:
WBPPPw«^
.' tip Vj ::>• : •• p' ■
. \r-, - :.*
‘ ' *. . . |
s -y
" I’lfr' v l" ' . ' .■***;*...• 1'• •;
~.:■ ' ' . v •■■:■-,; ■
: •*- ' J * * . . - <■ ’* .
MtA:.. . * , -*:\ •* *. t 3?» .«■ *,?<*> V /*> ; /m-
-">v - ‘.* ** • €<~ - *■• ." •* ■ >i/v -V •. *' ■•*s':* •'■ - n v’* «
W
... • . ,
.
SMi
i -y
:
HSU
The PLAYER-PIANO that reaches
the REAL SPIRIT of MUSIC
Every composition of intrinsic worth
has a subtle quality that cannot be revealed by mere me-
chanical correctness. It is that quality, the absence of which
makes us speak of a player’s rendition as cold or uninspiring. It
is that quality which the Beale Player-Piano always enables you
to find and tinge with your own personal interpretation. In part
it is a matter of mellow, rich tone. In part it is mechanical pre-
cision, but most of all it is a matter of responsive control of
every tone nuance. Insist on a Player-Piano combining dll
the attributes of perfect hand-playing and you will inevitably
choose a . Instantly convertible for playing by hand.
The better musician you are , the more you 'will appreciate the Teale.
SHOWROOMS:
333 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
BEALE dc CO. LTD.
FACTORY:
41-47 TRAFALGAR ST,
AN NAN DALE.
BRANCHES—N.S.W. : BATHURST, ORANGE. LISMORE, NEWCASTLE, GOULBURN, WAGGA. VIC.:
MAPLES, in all MELBOURNE Suburbs. TAS.: WILLIAMS BROS., HOBART. MAPLES LAUNCESTON,
SOUTH AUS.: JOHN EVANS LTD., ADELAIDE. Q’LAND: 90-92 Queen Street, BRISBANE. Kent Street,
MARYBOROUGH. Flinders St., TOWNSVILLE. ROCKHAMPTON. Sydney St., MACKAY. CAIRNS.


Hose of Luxite
Nobody can have better
Hose than Luxite—manu-
factured from the softest,
longest fibres and strong-
est yarn obtainable. Its
serviceability is a cer-
tainty.
Insist on having this
brand. Our enormous pro-
duction saves expense in
many ways, hence “ Lux-
ite ” prices are always
low. The soft, full-bodied
shimmer of Luxite Hose
is acquired.
If your dealer is unable
to supply you, write i.s.
Indents and Wholesale thru
WALTER CATHRO PTY. LTD.
50 York Street :: SYDNEY.
PARIS
GARTERS
No metal
can touch yo
Socks are always neat and
trim when Paris Garter's are
worn.
Look for the Kneeling Figure
and Oval Trade Mark— pour
protection against unsatis-
factory substitutes.
Obtainable all Mercers.
Stein & Co., Makers, Chicago, New York.
Indents and Wholesale:-
Walter Cathro Pty. Ltd., 50 York St., Sydney
HURRAH 1
m
a
WE BUILT
THAT MODEL WITH MECCANO
LOOK — IT WORKS
This splendid model of a rotating crane,
in shining steel, is only one of a hundred
working models —cranes, bridges, motors,
looms, guns, search-lights, aeroplanes—
which any boy can build with
MECCANO
Sold by ail the best Toy Dealers.
Every Meccano outfit is complete with big
illustrated book of instructions and all
the parts and tools needed—it’s so easy,
yet so fascinating. Meccano is made in
England.
Prices from 8/- per Outfit
upwards.
Send your name and address
with stamp for postage for a
copy of the “Meccano Maga-
zine”—it is free!
To—
The Meccano Depot (No. 1),
Box 1832 G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
GIVE
YOUR
BOY
MECCANO
v' W tMm
S'.s > '? v <C ■ '.
M3Bm*
SSK-
M
%•;
KffiS-
m
sx.*
'
m
•"• t-
B ok
-#:.':X : : ; x
swSlw;
;,,s
SJSiPS
- ->«ji
Sf- •....
kyy':
mm.
m
»s
3 ymj
««! 111 111
What is Punch in Petrol?
YY/HEN your engine literally
* * “purrs” with power —when
you feel your car just HUMMING
along and you know that the
accelerator needs but a gentle
foot-pressure to make her LEAP
like a live thing—THEN you’re
wise to what “punch” is, and
glad you specified “Plume.”
It’s always best to ask for your
Benzine by name and call for
“Plume” if you want the petrol
with the “punch.”
Most motorists know that “Plume”
gives easy starting, sweet running,
more miles.
Don’t say “Benzine” —ask for
“Plume.” All garages sell it.
VACUUM Oil COMPANY pTY. LTD.
PR 10
u
V 7
V
<?
A CONTRACT IS A CONTRACT
trade mark
DYES.
THE reputation of our Pyramid Aniline
Colors has been established during a
period when it has not been easy to live
ud to our standards. The quality of our
Pyramid Aniline Colors is as firmly fixed
to-day in the minds of buyers as our slogan
“A Contract is a Contract.”
Every shipment of our Pyramid Aniline
Colors is tested to see that it conforms to
our standards before it is allowed to go
forward. We will send our complete Dve Catalogue on request.
Specialists in the export of American chemicals.
Importers of raw materials for American industries.
BUSH, BEACH & GENT Inc.,
80 Alai den Lane, Holbrook Building,
New York, U.S.A. San Francisco.
Cable Address (Both Offices l “Beaclifred.”
BUSH, BEACH a GENT me.
New York ~ SanFrancisco.U.SA.
DRY GIN
FIRST PRIZE, ROYAL SHOW,
MELBOURNE, 1919.
Judge’s Comment: "Very Good!
7
per
™ bottle.
All Hotels and
[Licensed Grocers.
Always Look For
"Captain Cook"
If the S. M. Herald does this sort oi
thing often it will have its windows broken:
Widower, returned man, with young family, is
desirous of the acquaintance of a respectable person,
or widow.
Yic. A.N.A. board of directors has advised
its 35,000 members to vote on December
15 for the two Constitution Bills on the
ground that the alterations proposed are in-
stalments of the extensions of Federal
powers declared for at the Bendigo and
Horsham annual conferences.
Stephen Thompson, opposing Robert Best
as an independent Nationalist for Kooyong
(Vic.), is a lawyer who a few years ago
gave up his country practice at Lancefield to
angle for Costs in Melbourne. He is an “in-
tellectual,” with considerable ability a
writer on economics, but the fact doesn’t
stop him from talking plenty of cheerful com-
monsense on the platform.
Edmund Jowett’s opposition for the
Grampians seat in -the Reps, is Ballarat
lawyer Mark Lazarus, whose daughter Joan
is also pursuing Costs. Lazarus is Labor’s
legal adviser in the Ballarat district, and
won’t much miss the £6OO a year if he doesn't
get it. To Jowett, of course, £l2 a week is
only a tramfare. You could hardly count
his stations on the fingers of a centipede.
Fred J. Riley, Labor’s nominee for Flin-
ders (Vic.) Federal seat, was at one time
a red-ragger, but nowadays is mild as near-
beer. A South Australian, from grimy
Thebarton, he was well known in Sydney
Domain a few years back. At the N. S.
Wales State elections of 1912 he was ‘M:he
Socialist standard-bearer” against Jack
Cochran, the Labor man, and polled some
200 votes.
Infants with names that commemorate
the war are already getting into the lime-
light. A year-old Sydney baby which scored
notoriety by an argument with an octopus
was named Foch Abraham; another which
scalded itself the other day was French
Bullecourt Joffre; a lost girleen turned out
to have the unchristian names of Messines
Verdun; and a little cherub went aloft to
introduce herself as Alsace Peaceday.
One of the keenest of the young men who
are trying to save the N. S. Wales Labor
party is J. J. Sheils, writer of many a good
Bulletin par and a black-and-white artist
before politics took up so much of his time.
He is president of the Enmore branch of
the A.L.P., and until recently was a member
of the Central Executive. He has been
selected as one of the candidates for the
Western Suburbs (Sydney) and will oppose
Minister Davy Hall, if that consummate
wirepuller doesn’t get the job of Controller
of Prisons before the poll is taken.
The Vic. railways can’t be stampeded. A
truckload of country material urgently needed
to complete a suburban job went astray.
Consignee located it in Melbourne sorting
yard and claimed delivery. The Department
urged the impatient consignee not to get
excited about his unofficial discovery, said
the truck was officially lost, and until it
Was officially found nothing could be done.
Consignee then started on the more difficult
task of locating the official finder of lost
trucks, and couldn’t touch the stuff until the
truck had been officially found by him and
blessed.
The railway position in Britain is that
the unskilled men received a general advance
of 335. a week during war —in other
words, their meagre pay was almost trebled
-—and they propose that the 335. should re-
main as an addition to wages on the highest
pre-war scale. The pay even then wouldn’t
tempt Rothschild, junior, to be. a porter at
Ballachulish in 'the Highlands. Still it pre-
sents Britain with a mighty problem, and
what such things will .mean for us is that
Bull’will have to stick an extra per cent,
or so on the interest when Australia next
wants the loan renewed. That’s what we've
got to think about.
From Sydney Pickles, aviator
I notice in B. 13/11/’l9 that Captain Roy King
says: “Incidentally, I agree with Lieut. Pickles that
we need Commonwealth Government control of
aviation, and it is quite time we had it.” This
infers that I hold that legislation affecting air craft
should only be handled by the Commonwealth
Government. But I don’t. I think it is essential
that we have uniform legislation in all the States
of the Commonwealth. Whether this be achieved by
Federal or State legislation is immaterial to the
interests involved, always provided that the control
imposed is adequate without being vexatious.
The airman who thinks it possible to get
“uniform legislation” from six different
Legislatures is an optimist, at any rate.
“Spring-street” : Little he knows of Aus-
tralia who only Australia knows! Was
there a soul among us home-keeping folk
who knew, on September 28 last, that, “with
the exception of the extremists, all Austra-
lians deplore the precipitancy of the [Eng-
lish] railway-men, and hope that the Gov-
ernment will sternly resist the revolution-
aries”? It’s a cert, tliat 90 per cent, of
Australians didn’t worry their heads one
way or the other, and the remaining 10 per
cent. —“always excepting the extremists” —
thought the railway-men were overdoing it a
little. But “deploring” and “hoping for
stern resistance” —that is the picture of Aus-
tralia that the London Times’s Own Corres-
pondent draws for the Englishman. Now, is
it his fault if he misunderstands us?
The Farmers’ Union is getting any quan-
tity of limelight; but the manufacturer, who
is complementary to the rural producer,
doesn’t seem to care much for politics. His
share in the game seems to consist of kneel-
ing at the 'feet of the Parliamentary gods,
trying to attract a little attention. The
V.F.U., in its struggle towards the balance
of power in the Federal Parliament, w r on’t
touch city seats; but it doesn’t seem *to
have occurred to any interested persons to
start a Home Industries Union and run
candidates in the cities as farmers are
doing in the country. Both Labor and
Nationalism have given tariff reform nothing
but promises, and the V.F.U. is likely to do
the same thing. A properly-backboned and
self-respecting Home Industries Union,
having duly hatched itself, would rise up
and. make an attempt to do its own tariff-
reforming, without asking favors of any-
body.


Murdoch’s Genuine
South American Panamas.
Nobby hats for hot days, smart 21/-
and serviceable, and 2\ inch
brims, 1 f inch bands, English 25/-
grease-proof leathers, unequalled
values at 30/-
For Xmas $ Holiday Wear.
AMurdochPanami.
Men! You 11 need a cool, shady Panama during the coming holidays.
Get right on the track of satisfaction and crown yourself with a Murdoch Panama.
Here s jolly good news for men who are thinking of jolly good times while holiday-
making.
SPECIAL SHIPMENT JUST LANDED.
GENUINE SOUTH AMERICAN PANAMAS
Offering at PRE-WAR PRICES.
Just the hats you need— smart, serviceable and comfortable. Every man will
appreciate these quality Panamas—they are light, cool and shady. Wherever the
holiday spirit calls you during the festive season —down by the beach or up the
mountains, in the bush or by the river—these hats are ideal for comfort and service.
Consider quality and price and you’ll agree that they are
THE BEST PANAMA VALUES
IN THE COMMONWEALTH.
Here’s your chance to save money on a tip-top Panama—pre-war prices mean
predominant values. That’s a fact ydu should realise.
Call in ecfrly &nd make your selection, or post your order to Desk R.
• EVERY HAT GUARANTEED SATISFACTION OR MONEY BACK.
Smart City Shapes
in Genuine
South American Panamas.
Just the Hats for Smart Dressers, light, cool
and comfy, 2f and 2-J inch brims, first-class
trimmings—
-21/-, 22/6, 25/-
Superior quality—
-30/-, 35/- and 42/-
ALL PANAMAS POST FREE.
Genuine
South American
Panamas
Telescopic Shape.
Splendid for holiday and lounge wear, 2\
inch brims, 2 inch bands, side bows. Sizes
6i to 7i
Price 30/-
Country Shape,
with Wide Brims.
Murdoch’s Country Shape Genuine South
American Native Panamas, wide brims
only—cool, shady hats that will temper the
sun’s glare, 2| and 3 inch brims. Easily
worth 21/-. Our Price,
1316.
Genuine American Alpine
Shape Panamas.
The latest in Summer Headgear for men
who are up-to-date— 2\ and 2f inch brims,
low baftds, loose side bows, very smart
and dressy,
25/-
p r
IN PARK ST LIMITED SYDNEY
<?omplef<? Outfitter#
for Men <sl Botrs
Si
ORDER YOURS TO-DAY
WE PAY POSTAGE
TO ANY ADDRESS
IN AUSTRALIA.


COULD TEAR
SEIHOPIECES
From Terrible Itching of
Pimples. Cuticura Healed.
“I found a sort of rash or pimples
break out on my arms and forehead
which caused me great
trouble and terrible itching.
I could tear myself to pieces.
It was scattered and red and
inflamed and the scratching
caused eruptions. It pre-
vented me from sleeping.
“I saw ’four advertisement
and sent for a sample of Cuticura Soap
and Ointment which afforded relief
so I bought more and was healed.”
(Signed) Mrs. R. Pollard, Renmark,
South Australia, October 23, 1917.
Most skin troubles might be pre-
vented by using Cuticura for the toilet.
Soap to cleanseand Ointment to heal.
“R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
Sold by dealers throughout the world.
BULLDOG
GRIP
VULCANIZING
SEIF
THE
PATCH
REPAIR
, Tany size puncture
BLOWOUT OR TORN PLACE’
OBTAINABLE AT ALL GARAGES
PRODUCED ENTIRELY
IN AUSTRALIA.
THE. GRESHAM,
Brisbane’s Leading' Hotel*
FOR SEA SICKNESS
& TRAIN SICKNESS
MOTHERSILL'S has received the
unqualified endorsement of the leading
papers of the world, and the finest testi*
monials from the world s greatest men,
women, and institutions. Among these are
Bishop Taylor-Smith (chaplain General
of the British Forces), Doctors, Bankets,
Polytechnic Tours, Salvation Army, etc.
O
vS
A
\;
SEASIOV
Sold Under a Positive Guarantee to
Prevent and Cure Sea or Train
Sickness or Money Returned.
MOTHERSILL’S is guaranteed rot to contain
Cocaine, Morphine, Opium, Chloral, or any oi
the coal-tar products.
NO BAD AFTER EFFECTS.
All Chemists, in Large and Small Boxes.
PEMFDY CO., LTD.,
Aberdeen House, 204 Clarence St., Sydney
H. G. HARMER, L.R.1.8.A., C.E,
ESTABLISHED 1907,
having taken into partnership
A. C. LAVINGTON,
will henceforth practise as
HARMER & LAVINGTON,
ARCHITECTS
and
CONSULTING CIVIL ENGINEERS.
SPECIALISTS IN RF.-INFORCED CONCRETE,
TIMBER AND STEEL STRUCTURES.
SILOS, YVOOLSHEDS, TANKS, FACTORIES
AND HOMESTEADS.
Country work a Specialty.
’Phone: City 50. Box 468 G.P.O.
52 AVAR LOAN CHAMBERS,
114 a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Centrifugal Pumps
are the simplest, most efficient, most
durable and satisfactory water lifting de-
vices. Suited for all classes of service-
irrigation, drainage, excavating, tank
service, for use in breweries, sand and
gravel washing plants.
Fairbanks-Morse Quality insures the
utmost in pump efficiency and reliability.
Ask your dealer today for details and
specifications of various types.
Eangar, Gedye & Company, Ltd., Sydney.
James Wardle & Company, Adelaide.
James Bartram & Sons, Ltd., Melbourne.
Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd., Brisbane.
Malloch Bros., Perth.
Donald & Sons, Ltd., Masterton, N.Z.
A. G. Webster & Sons, Ltd., Hobart, Tasmania.
Fairbanks, Morse C*(s
§ INCORPORATED I ■ MANUFACTURERS
Foreign Dept.
NEW YORK, U. S. A.
London,
England
Buenos Aires,
Argentina
gga?
K
f
!
Sr
—.J
St,
m
1
V
MARK
TkABE
The Watchdog of Five
Million Homes
As the super-Dreadnought is
the watchdog of the seven seas,
so is the
YALE Cylinder Night Latch
the watchdog of five million
homes —protector against unwel-
come invader, pilferer and thief.
The Yale cylinder night latch is a
Specialist. It dots thing well.
It keeps the door locked when you
want it locked. The cunning ingenu-
ity of the lockpicker cannot open the
Yale cylinder night latch—no one can,
if he hasn’t the right key.
And they are made to fit any door-
in many sizes and styles, and at vary-
ing prices.
Equally as the Yale Cylinder night
latch is guaranteed, so are all Yale
products: Yale Padlocks, Yale Door
Closers, Yale Builders’ Hardware, Yale
Bank Locks, and Yale Chain Blocks.
Look for the trade-mark ' ‘Yale” before
you buy. You are assured the utmost
security in Yale Products.
Buy them from any good dealer
The YALE & TOWNE
MFG. CO.
Established 1868
NEW YORK
v U. S. A.
YALE
TRIPLEX BLOCKS
Special features: —
1— Hoists twice as fast as a screw-geared block. i_ wer ing.
2 Continuous Hand Chain Guide., permitting ra ? l _ j/otjfiOlb.).
3 Bated on long ton(224olb.)and tested to 50% overload (330
4 Can be fitted to any length of lift.
5 Spare parts available.
6 Hand and Electric Blocks available from stocK.
FRANK R. PERROT, Sole Australian Agent,
334 Kent Street, Sydney; 883 Hay Street, Perth.
L. BANNISTER, 39 Queen Street, Melbourne.
EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., 121 Eagle Street, Brisbane^
Vic. Treasury will get a good cut for pro-
bate out of the estate of William Pearson,
of Kilmany Park, who died eight months
ago’. Realty is set down at £93,432 and per-
sonalty at £100,207.
“So Bill’s give you another black eye,”
said the Port lady in blue to the Port lady
iu brown, met fortuitously in the butcher's
shop. “Yus,” replied the lady in brown,
happily; “and ’s luck would have it, ivia
died Saturday!”
Hughes has at least the satisfaction of
knowing that his unpleasantly-candid friend
Boyd has had an egg thrown at him, too.
But Boyd kept his temper (which little Billy
didn’t, having reallv none to keep), and
merely praised the aim of his friend outside
the window.
“Camelero”: Met him in Townsville
(N.Q.) the other day. During the Boer dis-
turbance lie was wounded in the right thigh
by a sniper’s bullet. He enlisted again in
1914, and during the fighting at Lone Pine
he stopped another, the lead entering by way
of the old scar. The arm of coincidence had
a long reach that day.
At Queenstown (Tas.) the ratepayers
were asked to say whether the Mt. Lyell
Co. should take over the electric lighting
from the Municipal Council. Result: Yes,
303; No, 78. There’s a steadily-growing
opinion that it might be a good thing if the
whole Speck were handed over to Sticht
to run for a year or two on business lines.
For the first time in the history of the
office, a woman has been appointed secre-
tary to the Attorney-General of N. S. Wales.
Miss 11. R. Richards. The office has in times
gone bv been filled by some noteworthy men.
Alexander Greville held the post in Dailey s
time; he was succeeded by Willy Stephen,
son of the Chief Justice; he in turn made
way for George Houston Reid, who was
then reading for the Bar.
“Gleniris” : Diana’s four new kittens had
been discreetly drowned during little Hilde-
garde’s absence. Soon after his return Hildy
found the woodshed depopulated and de-
manded information. On the matter being
explained to him he burst into a loud roar
of grief. “Isn’t he sorry for the poor kit-
tens !” said mamma. Hildegarde fiercely
brushed away one gill of teardrops. “No/’
be bellowed. “Wanted t’ see y do it.
Wah-how-o-w-o-w !”
“Ivaylee” ; Carnival revellers, pause i n the
midst of your festivities and consider! The
confetti with which you gaily pelt each
other is stained with the tears of heroines.
The little gay bits of red are specks ol
blood flowing from the murdered. The dirty
white bits are the dirtier white hands ol
garrotters. In short, confetti is mostly old
melodrama lithographs no longer fit for the
public gaze because the heroine s murder is
being attempted while she is wearing a hat
no modern woman would pay to see.
The discussion in the Bulletin about
dried fruits, concluded by C. J. de bans on
October 30, has stirred up something. On
October 31 an announcement was made that,
“in consequence of an advancing overseas
market and the speculative shipment of Aus-
tralian dried fruits to the disadvantage of
the Australian consumer, the Minister for
Customs has prohibited the export of dried
fruits pending full inquiry as to the stocks
held in Australia.” It has been represented
to the Minister, it appears, that if over-
seas exports are to be allowed to continue
the home price will probably be doubled;
and Massy Greene fears that his Christmas
plum-pudding may starve in the midst of
plenty.
“Francis de M.”: “McTroclius” (B.
13/11/T9) doesn’t know the late Gov. Mac-
gregor if he believes that that remarkable
old man angled for a knighthood. I know
he accepted it only after much hesitation and
after two previous refusals. My knowledge
of the refusal is derived from one who knew
only the language of homely truth—Mac-
gregor himself. Oonfirmation which was
not necessary—came later from the man in
part responsible for the distribution of let-
ters patent and such like social uplifts. 1
had 30 years’ intimate knowing of the un-
obtrusive M.D., and never found a flaw in
his make-up. He was tolerant of every man s
opinion, as he was of his creed, and regarded
the clerical bigot as the worst form of social
pest. “The only one of God’s creatures, he
told me, “who deserves the bottomless pit.
The boudoir behind the Tivoli scene.-*
where Hughie Mclntosh entertained the
V.C.’s lately is Caesarean in its luxury.
The visitor ascends two narrow stone flights
of steps, passing on his sordid way the pre-
occupied life of the theatre, turns to the
left and encounters a blaze of light, carpets,
pictures, curtains, signed photographs of
celebrities and drink—more particularly
drink. Champagne is there in magnums;
and if it is not in magnums it is m
jeroboams. Rupert Clarke did something in
the same line in the little room he had at
the Sydney Criterion stage-door entrance.
But he merely featured whisky, and there
was neither gorgeousness nor comfort about
the resort in which he occasionally met his
friends. H. D. Mclntosh makes a hobby of
being a host. There is only one to surpass
him at the art in N. S. Walds—Owen Cox.
The food and drink of Owen Cox have a
reputation as far away as Paris is.
With shameless abandon the Argus has at
last thrown herself into the arms of Henry
Haywhiskers. It was the V.F.U. manifesto
that did it—a statement which gran’m.a con-
siders to be “clear, forcible, pointed, consecu-
tive and intensely practical.” When the
union was having its early struggles gran’ma
treated it as a futile little thing of no im-
portance, except as material for an occasional
unfriendly paragraph. Latterly, immensely
strengthened in numbers, and showing all
the selfish traits of a successful sectional
party, the V.F.U. has spoken its mind on
the tariff issue. No farming aids from
abroad are to be taxed, and all new tariff
proposals are to be viewed with the gravest
suspicion. Wherefore, gran’ma now dearly
1-1-loves Henry for his beautiful, broad ideas,
and expresses the hope that there will be “a
strong body of farmers in the next Parlia-
ment to stand up for the views which the
manifesto propounds.” But no matter how
flattered he may be, Henry will probably
have his own ideas as to the prudence of the
liaison.


i
m
€
m
m
m
i
m
The Black Diamonds Swear by REXONA
We all swear by Rexona, for we think it is truly the Rapid Healer and most wonderful ointment we have ever
come across. We have used it at the Front when on Active Service in France and Gallipoli, and found it unequalled
for the minor injuries which were forever occurring. It is no less a friend to us here at home, and we shall sing the
praise of Rexona wherever we go. You have no idea what a godsend Rexona Soap and Rexona Ointment were to the
boys at the Front, and we heartily recommend them to all our friends.
Wishing Rexona the best of good luck, Sincerely yours,
THE BLACK DIAMOND COSTUME COMEDY CO.
Some Beautiful Members of the Rexona Club
MSI
m
i
m
I M
O'
V*
i
m ■ j
!, mm i
/
Heading from left to right these Rexona Girls are; Freida Guy, Maisle Pollard, Nell Fallon, Enid Darby, Cecil Haines, Hope Hunter, Grade Lavers, Jean Robertson
Gives Natural Beauty to Skin and Hair
That natural beauty of skin anti hair which cannot be imitated can be obtained by regular use of Rexona Skin and Facial Soap. Ordinary Toilet
Soaps do not assert this influence. Many of them contain free alkali, which tends to dry the skin and destroy its delicate texture. Even the best
of such soaps can only cleanse; they cannot heal and protect the skin. Rexona Soap contains the same soothing, healing, antiseptic balsams as
Rexona the Rapid Healer, the value of which in the treatment of skin affections is known throughout the world. Simply use Rexona Skin and
Facial Soap regularly once or twice a day, and see if it does not quickly soothe and cleanse the pores, lessen the tendency to bimples, and leave the
complexion clear, fresh and velvety.
**»
m
.
m
4
k\
1
1
*
i
b
The Rexona Club uf Rexona Girls is now many thousands strong. All Rexona Girls are beautiful girls, for Rexona and beauty go together. Reading from left to right these
Rexona Girls are; Daisy Jerome, Madge Elliott, Cecil Bradley, Daisy Revette, (fry die Revenall, Beryl Novak, Val Meagher, Mabel Batchelor.
REXONA SOAP for Health and Beauty.
Why not be a Rexona Girl, too? Rexona and Rexona Soap ensure that clear,
fresh skin and beautif&l hair which go so far to give any girl that natural charm
and beauty which is her rightful heritage.
To shampoo or wash the hair with Rexona Soap is an easy task, but the results
are startling. It leaves the hair in such a beautiful condition, the scalp perfectly
clean and wholesome. The hair becomes light and fluffy, waving about the face in
abundance, as beautiful hair should always appear. Rexona Soap leaves a delicate
perfume, invigorating the roots of the hair, which prevents greyness. A few
shampoos with Rexona Soap effectively remove every trace of dandruff or . loose
and falling hair. Radies who use it for the hair say that Rexona Soap is tar
better than any of the so-called hair tonics.
TRY THE REXONA REMEDIES.
Rexona Soap and Ointment are universal favorites with everyone who values a
pure and healthy skin. The longer you neglect your skin the harder it will be to care
tor it. Delay may result m Eczema, Ringworm, Running Sores, dr some of the many
and unpleasant forms that skin trouble so often assumes. Rexona the Rapid Healer
and Rexona Soap are sure preservatives for the health and skin. Rexona Soap keeps
the skin soft and pure, and Rexona the Rapid Healer will immediately eradicate
any disease which may be apparent, for it arouses the skin to healthy activity so that
it quickly recuperates.
Buy a tablet of Rexona Soap from your Chemist or Storekeeper. It is beautifully
put up and sold at I/- per tablet, or you can get it in boxes, containing three
in a box, Rexona is supplied only in triangular pots, at 1/6, or in larger pots
holding nearly four times the quantity, at 3/-. ' arger pots,
Rexona 1/6 and 3/-. Rexona Soap 1/- per tablet.
o
O
0
THE RAPID HEALER


A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Shoe Ilook, Lift and Glove Hook,
complete in Velvet-lined Case, 35/-
A. Saunders’ Fish Eaters, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality, in
Velvet-lined Oak Case, Xylonite Handles, £5/5/-
A. Saunders’ Juvenile Knife, Fork, Spoon and
Serviette King, pure Silver-plated Al quality,
in Silk-lined Case, 30/-
CASED GOODS
Y^^>'XVVVVVVV>CVv^\.VvVV\\VvVV\\v^vvv\.Vi
. 4istoJ''.
3 SR ,
4 m *
—**p
' "~:iw-‘ 'ag—
A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Manicure Set, 8 Pieces, plain design,
finest-quality Instruments, Velvet, and Silk-lined Case, £5.
v^-,T
Kwir
' r ' AA v-?3r!.?-:.-T«
3<53
1®
■3M
wm
A. Saunders’ Combination Case, comprising half doz. Afternoon
Teaspoons, half doz. Cake Forks, 1 pair Sugar Tongs, A 1 quality,
pure Silver-plated, 60/-
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller,
805-815 George St.
/OPP- RAILWAYS
' STATION ’•
Sydney.
A. Saunders’ Jam Spoons, in Case, pure Silver-plated,
A 1 quality, 15/6.
Jam and Butter to match, 15/6.
fe
A. Saunders’ Combination Case Teaspoon's and Toft&s, i.u.ter
Knife and Jam Spoon, pure Silver-plated, 21/-
'
(fp ■ <fr (ft
f : 1.
XA i A
m . m
A. Saunders’ half doz. Cake Forks and Server, pure Silver-
plated, A 1 quality, complete in Velvet-lined Case, 25/-.
51
p3tg •
s&S&SSB
a m
s&*'W
mS
mm
<y?>Zsz-
■r: **
-ft Sum
m
50
&
I\l
SB
Min^KS^
***
<*»s«s»rv.
Write to-day to Nestle’s, 347 Kent Street,
Sydney, for Free Copy of a Valuable
Cookery Book containing over 100 recipes
for cooking with
Perfect scones—perfect
cakes, puddlings and blanc-
manges when you cook
with Nestle’s Milk.
“ Nestle’s ” cooking is
both economical and easy.
You save eggs, sugar and
butter —you save trouble
Nestle’s Condensed Milk
Made in Australia.


DRAWS
OUT
THE POISONS
which cause Barcoo Rot,
Bad Legs, Sore Feet,
Carbuncles, Boils,
Poisoned Wounds,
Ulcers, Bunions,
Eczema, Piles, and
those arising from Insect
Bites.
The Proprietors of
GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT
have an absolute confidence in its un-
surpassed merits. They know it to be a
safe and perfect cure for all skin and
blood ailments; and the vast number of
testimonials received prove this.
GRASSHOPPER positively
draws the poisons which produce
these maladies out of the system.
As a tonic, liver medicine, blood purifier,
and for those who suffer from headaches, the
GRASSHOPPER PILLS
are equally effective. Do not be persuaded
to purchase any substitute preparations.
Sold by all Drug Stores and Chemists
throughout the Commonwealth.
Personal.
S. J. THORPE, of Natal, late 37th Bat-
tery, Australian Field Artillery.
Letter awaiting abovenamed at The
Bulletin Office, Sydney.
Missing: Friends.
IF JOHN WILLIAM STEVENSON, last
heard of at Urandangi, Queensland, and
Bunda-Bunda, near Richmond, Queensland,
will communicate with F. TYSON, Solicitor,
Launceston, he will hear of something to his
advantage.
BARTLEM. —Aged mother wishes to
know whereabouts of her son, W. G.
BARTLEM, of Rockhampton, Q., who was
last heard of in Sydney. J. F. BARTLEM,
Havarest Farm, Yeppoon, via Rockhampton.
WILL WALTER WILLIAM BENTEL,
or anyone knowing his whereabouts,
kindly communicate with the undersigned.
Important benefits. PARKER & JORDAN,
Commission Agents, Union Bank Chambers.
Brisbane.
RE MARGARET CALLANAN, late of
413 Coventry Street, South Melbourne,
in the State of Victoria, Widow, deceased.
Will any person knowing the present where-
abouts of JOHN CALLANAN, a son of the
abovenamed deceased, who was last heard of
at Ballarat about three years ago, and who
is a laborer by occupation, kindly communi-
cate with Thomas Patrick Nolan, of Royai
Insurance Buildings, 414 Collins Street,
Melbourne, solicitor, acting for and on be-
half of the Executors of the will of 'the
abovenamed deceased. THOMAS P. NOLAN,
414 Collins Street, Melbourne, Proctor for
the Executors.
ILL Mrs. A. A. TOIIL, sometimes
* * called Millie or Alice King, formerly
of Yongala, South Australia, now residing
in Melbourne or Sydney, or anyone knowing
of her whereabouts, please communicate with
the undersigned. Dated this 20th dav of
November, 1910 GLYNN, PARSONS,
McEWIN & NAPIER, Solicitors, Box 337,
Adelaide.
E PATRICK KELLEHER. Will
J-V Patrick Ivelleher, formerly of Maffra,
in Victoria, or any person knowing his
whereabouts, kindly communicate with
ARTHUR F. RICE, Solicitor, Maffra.
Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director HUGH D. McINTOSH.
1" IVOU THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday, at 2.30.
C f MY LADY FRAYLE.
3A MUSICAL PLAY OF HEART THROBS.
0 Plans at Nicholson's and the Tivoli.
"piVOEI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH D. McINTOSH presents
LONDON’S LATEST SUCCESS
TAILS UP.
Prices as usual.
K I T 15 It | () N T || 15 A T It 15. SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday at 2.
LIGHTNIN’.
A Comedy Drama by Winchell Smith and Frank
Bacon, introducing the famous American character-
actor JOHN D. O’HARA and a specially-selected
cast of players.
Plan at Paling’s.
U E It SI A .1 15 STY’ S. S Y D N E Y.
1 * Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday at 2.
NEW ENGLISH MUSICAL COMEDY CO.
in
GOING UP.
Plan at Paling’s. Prices as usual.
DALACE T II 15 A T It 15. S Y I) N E Y.
■ Direction J. & N. TAIT.
LAST EIGHT NIGHTS.
SARA ALLGOOD in
OLD LADY 31,
A Sunshine Comedy.
306 LAUGHS 306.
FUNNIEST COMEDY EVER WRITTEN.
Plan at Nicholson’s.
Amusements.
u
N lON PIC T |j K E T II E A T It K N
THE PICK OF THE WORLD'S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres iij Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE. LYCEUM.
STRAND, GLOBE, LYRIC, EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC, GRAND, KING’S CROSS.
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
HE It MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
SHORT SEASON OF GRAND OPERA.
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY),
MADAME BUTTERFLY.
TO-MORROW,
CARMEN.
Plan at Allan’s. Popular Prices.
r II E A T It E It O Y A 1.. MELBOURNE.
1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.50.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the Attractive
Musical Play,
THEODORE AND CO.
Plan at Allan’s.
Prices as usual.
KING’S THEATRE. MEI.ItOU It N E.
Lessees: BAILEY & GRANT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
KATE HOWARDE and her Brilliant Company in the
Popular Success,
’POSSUM PADDOCK.
Prices as usual.
Plan at Allan's.
HOYT’S THEATRES, M ELBOU RNIC.
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
ELSIE FERGUSON in
THE MARRIAGE PRICE.
MARGUERITE CLARKE in
LITTLE MISS HOOVER.
Prices as usual.
jyjAJESTIC THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
ALICE BRADY
in
HOLLOW OF HER HAND.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
LACIARIUM, MELBOURNE.
JAZZ PALAIS
DANCING.
EVERY EVENING,
8.15 to 10.45.
BUILDING ARTIFICIALLY COOLED.
MISS HUTCHISON'S JAZZ BAND.
Admission 1/-
Single Dances -/6
Book of 14 Dance Tickets 3/0
HE ALLAN WILKIE COMPANY,
including Miss FREDISWYDE HUNTER-WATTS,
Touring New Zealand in
lIINDLE WAKES, CANDIDA, THE SCHOOL FOR
SCANDAL, SHE STOOPS TO CONQUER. TRILBY; j
CAMILLE, THE SILVER KING, THE MIDNIGHT I
WEDDING.
WEST COAST, DECEMBER 10 to 23.
|y| ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
WOULD and SELZNICK.
OItITANNIA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
Business Notices.
10/6
Genuine BENGALL Razors.
Unsurpassed for Cutting: Edge.
Made by T. R. Cadman & Sons, Sheffield, Eng.
These razors have a reputation of 170 years’
standing for excellent quality. They are unsur-
passed for durability and keen-cutting edge. Very
best steel, hand-forged, hardened and tempered by
special process. Hollow-ground to highest degree
of perfection. Specially Selected.
Full concave, file tang, fin. blade. For light
beard.
Full concave, file tang, Jin. blade.
Price, Post Free 10/6 each.
Or Two Razors, Post Free, for 20/-
MANUFACTURERS’ SELLING AGENCY,
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
George hotel,
•St. Kild&, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Acconunoilatlon in Australia.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wu Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard*
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Pa v i n g Blocks, Builder s’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE. MELBOURNE, VIC.
68$ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Rrntiohe- in all parts of the \vo rl
C|v£A
£
£
<
n
$
This is the
Registered
Trade Mark
Of the best
place to get
your
Fishing Tackle,
Guns, Rifles,
Cartridges,
Tennis Goods, etc.
818 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
An Unique Statement,
but True.
The celebrated “Ross” Prismatic RACE Glasses are
the best Race Glasses made in any part of the
world.
Ross Glasses were adopted for the British Navy and
British Army after trials of all other makes of
glasses.
They are hermetically sealed, and so withstand all
conditions of weather.
They have wonderful definition, light and extra large
field.
We sell Ross Glasses at Ross’ Catalogue English
prices, plus only landing charges.
Fairfax CSL Roberts bid.,
Vice-Regal Opticians for 25 Years,
Sight-testing Rooms Upstairs,
Prescriptions
Our Specialty.
23 and 25 Hunter Street.
THE GOOD OLD “PLUM”
The good old “Plum” Razor has been before the
Australian Public for years, and its keenly-tempered
edge has preserved the friendship of every Shaver
who has made its acquaintance.
THE "PLUM” RAZOR.
PRICE. 10/6 —POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
Tbe above makes a handsome present.
“Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/2 Tube, post free.
All the above Post Free. Send for our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
s *
654 CEORCE STREET, SYDHEY.
Established over SO years.
Tried and Trusted—
The “PLUM”
Razor.
Business Notices,
PARTICULAR
DRESSERS
appreciate the exceptional style featured in
ABBEY SHOES.
The Footwear illustrated is one of many
shapes specially designed for comfort and
wear.
A choice Patent Golosh Hal. with Dull
Calf Legs, a smart made-to-order style.
Price - 47/6
A very distinctive boot for Dress Wear. In
half sizes and full sizes, and C and D
fittings.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between (J.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney
I Suggestions for GIFT GOODS.
Our Christmas showing of fancy gifts
as follows are of inhst choice selection,
comprising New Designs of Silks from
English and French looms.
Silk Ties.
Handkerchiefs to match.
Colored Socks.
Silk Shirts. Pyjamas.
Dressing and Bath Robes.
JUkliarD JStittt &Co,
314 George Street
(near Hunter Street), SYDNEY.
After reading, will you please send this paper to
the Hed Cross Hook, Magazine and Newspaper Depot,
5 Wynyard Street, Sydney, or place it in one of the
receptacles provided for the purpose. All copies thus
received are divided equally between the lied Cross
Society and the War Chest Fund, and are posted
Weekly to our soldiers abroad.


Write
THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE
(STATE GUARANTEE) ACTS AS
EXECUTOR, TRUSTEE, ADMINISTRATOR, ATTORNEY and AGENT.
Expert, Efficient and Economical Management.
or call for full particulars, CULWULUA CHAMBERS, 07 CASTEEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
T. W. GARRETT, Public Trustee.
boobd&son
&
YG
L Swift .V r
V r r'» n Arrant*. *lf\ ?.0 Olaronrp St..
“THEY COMF. AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
Fend for
Samples
and Self-
measuring
Chart.
V
Urn
It Pays to Have Your
ShirtsMadetoMeasure
That is if Messrs. PIKE BROS,
do the making, and if you give
preference to
“DURO”ZEPHYR
SHIRTING.
“Duro” Zephyr is cool and
color-fast; and shows the
natty, striped designs that
men of affairs like. Fabrics
nr? thoroughly shrunk, and
arc fashioned into shirts under
the strict supervision of our
expert.
SHIRTS TO
MEASURE
13/6.
PYJAMAS TO
MEASURE
22,6
PIKE BROTHERS LTD.,
BRISBANE.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Going Up”
Criterion “Lightnin’”
I’.alack “Old Lady 31”
Tivoli “My Lady Frayle”
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s Grand Opera
Royal “Theodore and Co.”
ICino’s “’Possum Paddock”
Tivoli “Tails Up”
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Glaoiariu.ii Dancing
♦ ’
Though half a dozen intellects were con-
cerned in its fabrication, and Charles A.
W enman and others were responsible for its
production,' “Theodore and Co.” doesn’t
strike this critic as a brilliant start for a
revival of musical comedy at Melbourne
Royal. The music is undistinguished, and
the faint promise of giddiness in the opening
scene remains an lOU to the end of the
show. Mostly the characters are engaged
in bluffing a duke auent an innocent indis-
cretion on the part of his daughter,
but the attempt to defraud the old boy of
his suspicions 'is really an ambush for the
incursion of incongruous comic elements and
a lot of fallabout fai’ce. In the first scene
of the second act, -where an elaborate con-
spiracy is staged to convince the Duke that
his daughter w r asn’t the heroine of the little
affaii-, the low comedy develops into a riot
shot with vulgarity, and, the business is
largely of the pantomime order where the
plot staggers under a load of subtle allu-
sions assisted by a nude statue and a pile of
crockery.
Theodore Leonard, a new arrival, is an
active little man whose trained grimaces and
terrible clothes date him perfectly in the
history of vaudeville humor. As Pony
Twitchem he is an alternate flow of feet and
convei-sation, never sparing his energy in
flogging his tongue and extremities to per-
form loud and obvious gaieties of the knock-
about sort. Maud Fane is Tony’s partner
in audacity, but her witchery has staled
somewhat, and even her appearance in a
smart pink suit, revealing an ill-judged
quantity of leg, fails to give form-connois-
seurs palpitation of the eyeball. It is
attractive Gladys Moncrieff who again earns
full marks for the unwavering superiority of
her voice and manner over the cheaper little
tricks of her imported sisters. Gladys has
to sing two or three songs, and, tame as they
are,, she satisfies every reasonable musical
demand. Sidney Stirling, as the 24tli Duke
of Shetland, suggests that, even though the
Shetlands were once a rare and costly
race, he might now well bring them
down to 3d. a dozen. Leslie Holland,
as M.C. of the plot to delude the
Duke, resurrects his strut, apparently
to prevent his feet from skidding, and Ral-
ston is an unaccountable amorist called Wye.
Florence Young, as the Hon. Sapphire Blis-
sett with a background hubby (Percy Clar-
idge), prods Why’s dim intellect with saucy
badinage, whilst the congealed vivacity of
Bantock is employed for a provincial farmer
“Theodore and Co,”
at Melbourne Royal.
Theodore Leonard as
Pony Twitchem.
blown along by a
torn a d o of six
ridiculous daugh-
ters. Reg Roberts,
as Cosmo Legallos,
advertises a > va-
cancy for a sunny
disposition, a n d
George Welch
makes up as a brief
and simian-looking
Crump who will
probably be stolen
by a Dago some
dark night and
fastened by a chain
to the top of an
organ. Nellie
Payne, Louise Lars-
son, Jennie Opie,
Oliver Peacock and
John Forde flicker
briefly and then die
away among the
Sundries, and there
is a dance by Maie
Bail’d and Robert
Jackson wherein
Maie is a moving
picture in black; and
white. The piece
is well staged, and
the dressing repre-
sents a collision between a rainbow and the
Aurora Borealis.,.."
“Lightnin’,” the Yankee comedy which
arrived at Sydney Cri. on Saturday night,
ought to have its authors’ addresses as well
as names attached. For it amounts to a
subtle ti’eatise in favor of Unification, and
therefore comes under the Electoral Law.
The hotel in which most of the action occurs
is half in Nevada and half in California.
The citizen who commits a crime in Nevada
has merely to step across an imaginary line
drawn down the hall of the pub and he is
immune, being then in California. Simi-
larly, ladies who want a Iteno divorce can,
qualify by sleeping on the Nevadan or dis-
reputable side of the establishment, while
they appear by day in the Californian ox-
respectable half and so preserve their
.characters. Presumably the hotel employees
are paid on one scale while they are working
in the eastern, or bedroom, portion of the
hotel, and on another when they go west to
the dining-room section. John Marvin, the
hero, repeatedly evades the sheriff’s hand-
cuffs by taking one step backwards into the
adjoining State. He is in love with Lizette
Parkes, daughter of Lightnin’ Bill Jones,
; the dipsomaniacal owner of the hotel; and
his mission is to wed her, and defeat the
blood-sucking machinations of a bowelless
i-ailway trust whose minions ai-e pui*suing
him to his ruin.
■it * * *
No one who wishes to get an idea of the
ftneral lines on which court-martials were
conducted during the late fighting should
miss the Reno trial scene in Act 11. Thus the
lawyer who is opposing Marvin puts Lizette
, Parkes into the box as his witness; but on
finding her unsympathetic he hotly cross-
' examines her. Also the departure from court
’ of the Judge for a word in private with the
lovely Diana Wilson represents a reversal
! in method,, though not in principle, of the
active-sefvfce convention under which the
court was cleared while the Judges wrestled
in blasphemous privacy with the mysteries
of the Army Act.
The star part—that of old Bill Jones,
tile liquor-enthusiast—is played by John D.
O’Hara. All the world loves a drunk—at a
distance; and it is remarkable that so uni-
versal a phenomenon as the likeable inebriate
should not have hem exploited in straight
comedy oftener. O'Hara in his cups is a
modified version of Barry Lupino in siihilar
roles. Both have the slow, ineffable smile,
the pathetic hesitancies, the abounding ben-
“Lightnin’ ,” at Sydney
Criterion.
Fred Cambourne as
Zeb, crony of Bill
Jones.
evolences of the better
sort of drunk. Lup-
ino possesses a finer
comedy sense. O’Hara
insists more on the
gently-lovable aspect
of intoxication. He
rather overdoes it,
becoming saccharine
where the idea is to
be merely sweet.
Also, he lets much of
his business suggest-
ing whimsicality and
archness outstay its
welcome and hoid up
the action of the
show —but that is
the habit of stars.
One of the best bits
o f character-acting
and easily the most
faithful make-up in
the cast are provided
by John Beck, the
r u ffi an 1 y sheriff.
Frederick Esmelton
is above reproach as
the Judge. Diana
Wilson is a peerless
vampire. (Alas ' that
in many a Sydney
suburban home for weeks to come young
women will writhe and ogle in emulation of
her to .the mute frenzy of their families!)
Robert Toms is an attractive young lover;
Lizette Parkes is appealing; the rest of the
big cast good.
The new opera at Melbourne Majesty’s
last week was “Romeo and Juliet,” and
there were two nights of it. Otherwise bills
were as before, and the mannerisms of the
principals repeated themselves in the same
old places. "Romeo and Juliet” lives on its
title. As a musical entertainment, with a
picturesque story and a ballroom scene in
it, Gounod’s second-best opera is a poor thing
compared with Verdi’s “Un Ballo* in Mas-
chera,” but the world in general has a pre-
vious acquaintance with the Shakspearo
yarn, and it goes to see the two youthful
'name-parts absurdly misrepresented. Besides,
there’s a popular waltz melody in “Romeo
and Juliet.” Amy Castles is further removed
from the ideal Juliet than when she was a
girl in her teens, singing that Waltz Song
at the Exhibition Building, but she warbles
the empty ditty with improved art and vigor.
Apd for the rest her substantial Juliet is at
least as convincing as Ralph Errolle’s
Romeo. Carl Formes; easily the most im-
pressive man in the co., made a forcible
Mercutio as far as the part went; Valenti
was suited to the Friar part. Vera Bedford
added the Nurse to her gallery of satisfac-:
tory old women, and Leah Myers was the in-
terpolated page. Browning Mummery could
plead a fine tenor voice as an excuse for
liis Tybalt: in appearance and action he
w r as the mildest fiery Tybalt on record.
“Rigoletto” and “Carmen” will chip into
the tuneful procession this week.
“Going Up,” now in its 16th week of
brooding over Sydney, is to come back to
earth on the 1 17th. The walk-out of the
regular orchestra has made no difference in
the size of the audiences, so the heads at
Her Majesty’s are taking a cheerful-view ot
the fiddle-and-trombone strike.
“Lady Frayle” is at last packing up at
Sydney Tivoli. The dear old lady has en-
joyed a brisk revival season.
“Old Lady 31” is to totter out of the
Palace on December 12. Sydney will then
have another chance of seeing winsome
Sara Allgood in “Peg o’ My Heart.”
* * * :•=
At Sydney Lyceum, Alice Joyce, with her
hair snooded to her pretty head,' runs a
cold-storage heart which keeps below zero
even before the fire of a rich young lover's
wooing. However, being wealthy enough, he
“Theodore and Co.,”
at Melbourne Royal.
John Forde as a man
with a blue envelope.
buys out the freezing-
plant and binds the
bargain with a ring.
But when the cheild
—for there is a
cheild, in spite of the
grip of the Polar
ice-pack—i s lost,
Alice’s heart becomes
a raging volcano of
motherly and wifely
love. At the Strand
and Haymarket Wil-
fred Denver’s mag-
nificent “O God, turn
back Thy universe,
and give me yester-
day !” flashes upon
the screen, and the
ever-thrilling story
of “The Silver King”
is told, with William
Faversham in the
principal part. At
the Shell, Katherine
Macdonald becomes
“The Woman Thou
Gavest Me,” an d
enters upon the
laughterless existence
of a Hall Caine heroine.
A quiet _show in Sydney :
Gayfield Shaw’s rooms are filled with the quiet
dignity and charm that good etchings always bring.
Sydney Ure Smith lures with “The Old Colonial
Treasury” ; another poem-inspiring glimpse is caught
in his “Post Office” (and that has nothing to do
with Mr. Webster) ; apd his “Mill,” which is fea-
tured on the artisticaljy-got-up catalogue, is another
joy forever. Godson’s “York Minster,” and “Cobbles”
are two of the- most delicate pieces of work in the
show; Gruner introduces romantic mystery with
“The Pines”; and Norman Lindsay’s quite different
etchings have a corner to themselves, where “The
Death of Pierrot” holds pride of place. Digger David
Barker grips the imagination with his “Bagdad
Coffee Shop” and “Doorway in Judea”; and among
the Bruce Robertson collection the “Rue de l’Cordc-
lias” and “White Gum” are outstanding. Such
masters as John Shirlow and Fred Campbell say a
gracious word for themselves; and freshening the
humid air is Percy Leason’s “Watercart.”
Kennedy Allen made the only perceptible
difference in Melbourne Tivoli revue last
Saturday. Phil Smith was formerly the most
frequent supporter of Minnie Love, but his
succession of little character parts is now
transferred to K. Allen, of the foggy, fruity
voice. Otherwise “Tails Up” travels as be-
fore, with Minnie on the box-seat, and Steff
Macdonald and George Gee helping to whip
up the horses.
** * *
Harry Dearth, the most popular platform
baritone who has struck Australia of late
years, is now. singing farewell to Melbourne
at the Athenaeum Hall. Saturday, Monday
and Tuesday are the final dates.
“ ’Possum Paddock” is proving a great
• spruifeer for land , settlement at Melbourne
King's. The prosperity and wonder of Dad
McQuade’s stummick has decided several
local profiteers to give up scratching for a
pittance and go farming.
“The Marriage Price,” with Elsie Fergu-
son in front, is doubling the trickle into
Hoyt’s cash-box in Melbourne this week.
Elsie suffers the old trouble of a distant
husband, but towards the end she turns-on
her shiny eyes, and he promises to live close-
up for the rest of the journey. Marguerite
Clark in “Little Miss Hoover” follows a
bright career as a chicken-raiser, and safely
emerges B from a few sentimental passages
that wouldn’t bring a blush to a bagman’s
cheek, “Fighting for Gold” is Tom Mix’s
latest vehicle, and the excitement causes
double shifts in the munitions department.
At the Britannia, Anita Stewart in “Human
Desire” uncovered her nice young shoulders
for a three days' run commencing on Mon-
day, and to-day H. B. Warner hurries on
once more as “The Man Who Turned White.”
At the Melba, J. Warren Kerrigan is “A
Burglar for a Night,” and part of his plunder
is the pick of the social orchard.
The spoken drama is for the moment off
in Adelaide. At" the Majestic, which has a
“Lightnin'” at Sydney
Criterion.
John O'Hara as
Lightnin' Bill Jones.
monopoly of
Variety, Leonard
Nelson has some
new songs, and gets
the last ounce out
of them ; also Man-
deno’s dogs seem to
enj o y the tricks
they do. and Balto
does one or two
n e.w things on
trapeze and rick-
etty tabletops. In
the second half.
Haverley an d
O’Neil continue to
put in good Irish
character - studies,
but the humor of
their supporters is
not up to the mark ;
singing and danc-
ing, however, are
good. Picture pro-
grammes are attrac-
tive. “The Senti-
me n t a 1 Bio k e ,J
(which had its first
private screening in Adelaide months
ago) is now at the Royal. At Won-
dergraph Faversham gives a new idea of the
old “Silver King,” showing many things
which the stage couldn’t, and in particular
how Wilfred Denver found his silver. As
a neat contrast, Louise Huff has a comedy
showing how women are unwilling to give
up the trousers (etc.) that wartime allowed
them. At West’s William Desmond chases
gold in the frozen American north, and earns
all he gets; and Alice Brady presents a some-
what altered version of “Jane Eyre.” And
at the Pav. Harold Lockwood scores in the
always popular character of a gaol-bird who
is not so bad, after all.
Ferry the Frog, who left Australia a score
of years ago and made a hit with his con-
tortion act in the U.S.A., is among the
artists to be repatriated by Ben Fuller.
“Prompt Side”: The Actors’ Federation
is surprising even itself. Barry Lupino is
the most earnest recruiter. In M.L. the other
day, in between vaudeville appearances with
Fuller, he roped in 35 new members, includ-
ing Ernelie Polini. Jack Waller’s co.. gave
concerts on board ship while travelling to
India, and the £5O realised was sent to the
Federation funds. To, show, how enthusiastic
some of the pros, are, they pay their sub-
scriptions in advance!
N’York theatre-managers are saying that
their orofession is “the biggest gamble out-
side Monte Carlo.” In the recent summer
season 13 plays out of 32 tried were prompt
failures, while another half-dozen or more
were hanging on at the end of two mot
but dubiously. They are fond of borrowing
successful plays front London, but that is a
gamble, too. “The Maid of the Mountains,”
which has just finished a triumphant third
year in London, fell flop in America. Con-
versely, “The Man from Toronto,” an
American failure, found a big welcome when
tried again in England.
Randolph Bedford writes :
Bulletin (B. 20/11/’l9) says of Dr. Hirschfeld
that his name is Dr. Otto Von Hirschfeld, that he
was the son of a German Jew ennobled by Bismarck,
that he went through Bonn University, married in
Australia and became naturalised, and as Consul
“worked to weld the German community.”- Hirsclifeld's
name is not Otto, but Eugen; there is no Von, and
he was not ait Bonn University, but at Strasburg.
1 have it from his wife, daughter of one of the best
Australians that ever stepped, that he impressed on
German settlers in Australia the necessity of being
good Australian citizens. The Chinaman keeps up
his New Year in February, but nobody calls him
pro-German for doing that. The American sings
“The Star-spangled Banner” on July 4. and Aus-
tralians say “Good luck to you!” And no man should
b'e punished endlessly simply because he was German.
Dr. Hirschfeld was released to his Australian wife
and children a few weeks ago because the Federal
Government could find . absolutely nothing against
him except that he has a German name ; lie was re-
interned because of the elections and for nAitical
motives. The worst phase of the business 1 jjtfeat
T.ilanus and Holzberger (who tried the crueplst of
blackmail on Mrs. Hirschfeld and were laid wf the
heels because the courageous woman immediately
travelled to Melbourne and put the crime before the
authorities) have been given sentences suitable to
petty larceny rather than to the punishment of the
meanest of crimes, the Judge apparently believing
that the blackmailing of an Australian wife and
mother is nothing if the husband and« father but
have a German name.


/
&
/C
K
A
f\
“Five minutes
longer
in bed!”
Always a temptation—but
not always practicable. The
man who cuts things fine in
regard to time needs a
“Gillette,” cuts beards
close and clean with
MINUTES TO SPARE!
■KNOWN THE
WuRLOOVER
Men who realise the difference between
scraping and SHAVING are quick to
discern the advantages of the Gillette—
the safety-razor with the adjustable blade,
for close or “easy” shaving. This feature
is exclusive to the Gillette.
Standard Set, complete in case, 23/6
throughout Australia.
S. HOFFNUNG & CO., LTD.,
Wholesale Agents—^-Sydney.
10-INCH
DOUBLE-SIDED
FROM
4h
EACH
BRITISH-MADE
t|| Records
10= INCH
DOUBLE-SIDED
'ROM
41-
EACH.
WORLD-RENOWNED ARTISTES
in Celebrated Arias, from Grand Opera
at Very Moderate Prices.
MADAME CLARA BUTT.
12-INCH SINGLE-SIDED, PURPLE LABEL, 8/6 EACH.
7212 La Favorita— O mio Fernando (Donizetti). In Italian, Key “B” Flat.
With Sir Henry J. Wood’s Orchestra.
7213 Faust. When All was Young (Gounod). In English, Key “G” Major.
With Sir Henry J. Wood’s Orchestra.
7215— Sosarme: Rend’il Sereno, “Sosarnie” (Handel).
With Orchestra conducted by Sir Henry J. Wood.
—Eucrezia Borgia, II segreto per esserefelici (Donizetti). In Italian, Key “G” Flat.
With Sir Henry .T. Wood’s Orchestra.
7217— Orfeo, Che faro senza Eurldice (Gluck). In Italian. Key “C.”
With Orchestra conducted by Sir Henry J. Wood.
ALESSANDRO BONCI.
THE FAMOUS ITALIAN LYRIC TENOR.
10-INCH DOUBLE-SIDED, RED LABEL, 7/6 EACH.
A 1316
I Tosca (Puccini) —“Recondita armonia” (Strange Harmonies).
( Tosca (Puccini) —“E iucevan le stelle” (Then Shone Forth the Stars).
Al4OB
' Elisir D’Amore (Donizetti)— “Quanto e bella” (How Dearly I Dove Her).
(Fedora (Giorano)— “Amor it vieta” (My Love Forbids).
Al4lB
J Manon Leseaut (Puccini) —“Donna non virt Mai” (So Fair a Maiden ne’er I’ve
, Seen).
( Mignon (Thomas)—“La Tua bell’ Alina.”
12-INCH DOUBLE-SIDED, RED LABEL, 10/6.
A 5468 * ravori ta (Donizetti)—“Spirito Gentil” (Gentle Spirit).
(li’Africana (Meyerbeer)—“O Paradiso” (O Paradise).
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR COLUMBIA RECORDS—
SYDNEY, N.S.W. —Grafonola, Ltd., Daking House, Rawson Place.
MELBOURNE. VIC., and TASMANIA.—Messrs. Hugo Wertheim Pty.,
Ltd., 173 William Street, Melbourne.
BRISBANE, Q. —King: and King, Ltd., Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A.—Cornell, Ltd., 123 Pirie Street.
PERTH, W.A.—H. li. Firth, Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.—Arthur H. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z. —Bannat.vne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.—Webley Sons & Gofton, Ltd., 213 High Street.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.—Webley Sons & Gofton, Ltd.
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
Especially High-grade Cabinet, contain-
ing 113 pieces in li doz. quantities. A 1
quality, Old Eng. Spoons and Forks.
Ivory-bandied Cutlery, £75.
p.
S 3!
ABINETS of a quality similar to the above mav be
had at prices ranging from £3O. The
attractiveness and lasting durability of their
_ contents make them most useful and acceptable
Wedding Gifts and Presentations. The Forks and
Spoons are of finest A 1 quality, and the Knives, real
ivory-handled, shear steel, by Harrison Bros. & Howson,
Sheffield. Drummond s carry a large and representative
selectkm.
SPECIAL CONCESSIONS TO PRESENTATION
COMMITTEES.
Wim. Brummonb & Co.
344-346 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE.
Noxious Weeds
i
TREES and SCRUB
ST. JOHN’S WORT
BLACKBERRIES
THISTLES, DOCKS
BOXTHORN
COUCH FERNS
FURZE SORREL
WEEDS of every kind
m
VAI
LO
BRAND
.weed, scrub.
1^
Correspondence is Invited
Every square foot of land is valuable
now-a-days—far too valuable to be taken
up by scrub and weeds. Why should
they sap the vitality out of ground which
should contribute to your storehouse or
granary ?
Have you a clearing problem—is any
of your land being usurped by undesir-
able weeds ? Then there’s no earthly
reason why they should remain there
any longer. You have a speedy, sure,
and economical means of cutting short
their existence.
"VALLO” Brand Weed
Scrub and Tree Killer
will clean them off like a bush fire, with
the difference that they go for good.
“Vallo” is not an experiment. It is an
absolute exterminator of any and every
kind of Noxious Growth. It’s demon-
strating its efficiency every day. Whether
your trouble be giant trees or common
sorrel put “Vallo” on the job and you’ll
be impressed by what it can do.
Manufactured by
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.
Melbourne - Sydney - Brisbane
55


USE COCOANUT OIL
FOR WASHING HAIR.
Girls and women who wish to keep their
hair in nice condition should be most cautious
in the soap they wash it with. Most soaps
and ready-mixed shampoos contain excessive
quantities of alkali. This dries the scalp,
makes the hair brittle and is very injurious.
Just ordinary colinated cocoanut oil (a pure,
saponified but quite greaseless liquid), is
far better than the most costly soap you
could possibly, use for a shampoo, for this
cannot possibly hurt your hair.
Merely wet your hair with water and rub
it on. A couple of teaspoonfuls makes a
perfect flood of rich, thick, creamy lather, and
cleanses both hair and scalp thoroughly. The
lather rinses out easily, and takes with it
every trace of dust, dirt, dandruff or excessive
oiliness. The hair dries quickly, and evenly,
.and comes out fine, and silky, bright, glossy
and fluffy, appearing to be heavier than it is.
And, best of all, this colinated cocoanut oil
leaves the hair as easy to dress again, as
though you hadn’t washed it at all. You can
get colinated cocoanut oil at niost. any
chemist, but be sure it’s “colinated.” which is
not expensive a few ounces lasting a long,
long time
Use Fing'ers to Lift Off Corns!
'c"\.
m
Not one twinge of Pain! Corns and Callouses Loosen and
Brush Off! Wonderful!
Simply Some Drops of Frozol-Ice and All Pain and Soreness
Leave Corns at Once.
No bunkum! No bother!
Corns —soft ones, hard ones,
corns between the toes. —
loosen completely and lift
off. And not the slightest
twinge of pain or soreness.
Wonderful Invention of
Prominent Chemist.
This wonderful com-
pound is nam e d
Frozol-Ice, and is a
substance of ether dis-
covered by a scholarly
chemist.
Step in at any chemist’s for
a tiny bottle of Frozol-Ice, cost-
ing- but a mite, but ample to remove
every pestiferous corn c
from the feet.
Apply some drops right on to
of any tender, pain-tlirobbing
r callous
the heart
corn or
callous. Immediately all soreness van-
ishes, and soon the whole corn, “lock,
stock and barrel.” loosens, and lifts right
out with your finger-tips.
There’s no “acid-eating” effect in
Frozol-Ice, but a perfectly non-irritating,
non-inflaming, shrivelling up and loosen-
ing of the corn or callous. .
Only fancy! No pain! No soreness!
No sting whilst using Frozol-Ice. nor
afterwards. Make a test of it and satisfy
yourself.
As Soon as Corns Begin to Ache Use
Frozol-Ice.
Girls who have corn freedom save a
place on their dressing-stands for Frozol-
Ice. When corns begin throbbing, give
them some drops. Pain vanishes right off
—Corns die!
Midget Bottles of Frozol-Ice at your
Chemist’s.
This Simple Rule
Soon Strengthens a
Delicate Stomach.
It really is unnecessary to dose yourself
with pepsin pills or artificial digestives, or
to live on a miserable nursery diet. If you
will observe one easy rule you can eat the
hearty, nourishing foods that your appetite
craves and your body needs. That rule is to
take a teaspoonful of Salix Magnesia in a
half-glass of hot water with each meal. Salix
Magnesia is non-laxative and harmless, and
possesses medicinal qualities that promptly
overcome impaired digestion, fermentation,
acidity, catarrhal conditions of the stomach,
gas, distress after eating, and other stomach
disorders. As magnesia is prepared in vari-
ous ways, be certain to insist on obtaining it
from your chemist in the Salix form, especi-
ally recommended for stomach purposes.
POVERTY
POINTS
MOET &
CHANDON
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
“O’Rourke”: The late Frank Cullenane
gave Allen Doone a big kick-off in Aus-
tralia. For years he had specialised in old
Irish drama and had gathered a fine ward-
robe not easily procured. It was in these
borrowed plumes that Doone made his debut.
It is said that Doone came to Australia with
vaudeville in his mind, but fortunately met
Paddy Reynolds at his Melbourne pub. When
John Wren came along Paddy told him. "1
have here in the hotel Oirland’s gerreatest
actor-vocalist.” Wren didn!t get the same
opinion, but he let the public think he did.
Steele Rudd has engaged experienced Aif
Harford to collaborate in the delicate job
of preparing the “Selection” books for the
movies.
“MY LADY FRAYLE,” AT SYDNEY
TIVOLI.
Marie Le Varre secures the unsuspecting
churchman ( Hugh Steyne) as a fiance.
“M.P.” : Harry Southwell’s “Kelly Gang”
won’t be like either the “drama” or the crude
production that flickered on the sheet some
years back. The Southwell idea favors law
and order, and the first few’ hundred feet of
the story gets your sympathy for the police
and truly damns the bushrangers. For the
first time in the history of local film-produc-
tion, not excluding the successful “Bloke,”
the close-ups have been secured with the
technical skill of the best Yankee produc-
tions ; and the make-up of the actors right
through the solid seven reels is as it should
be. Some gripping and w’arm-blooded situa-
tions are depicted. The fight between Ken-
nedy and Kelly in the early stages of the
bushranging is specially well done. Godfrey
Cass is Ned; Victor Upton-Brown, Dan;
Horace Crawford, Byrne; Jack McGowan,
Steve Hart. On the opposing side Cyril
Mackay is Constable Mclntyre, who is what
there is of a hero; Adele Inman photographs
excellently as Kate Kelly, and Mrs. Inman
as Mrs. Kelly gives a sound characterisation
of that hot-fieaded lady. Bob Inman pro-
vides one of the thrills of the seven reels, as
Sherritt, when the avenging gang gets him
cornered and fills him with lead.
The National Council of Women has
managed to get the film “Damaged Goods”
banned from Melbourne, though it was shown
only to adults. The Council took the point
that it was “disgusting.” Not “alluring,”
nor “lascivious,” like an unclothed dancer or
a problem novel; but “revolting,” like- the
inside of a lock hospital. The well-meaning
women of the National Council are about the
best friends that venereal disease and prosti-
tution have. They work with misguided
zeal (1) to keep dark the fact that such
unpleasantnesses exist at all, (2) to take
care, wherever the horrors insist on obtrud-
ing themselves, that any disgusting features
they may have shall be hidden from the
public.
“Len”: “Hard times” may be variously
construed. Charles Kenningham’s position
in the musical profession in Maryborough
(Q.) is, and always has been, unassailable,
and his “hard times” are solely due to a
very serious illness (this necessitated three
operations), and the loss of his hearing,
which will totally incapacitate him from
following his profession. The benefit which
Maryborough has arranged for him is an ex-
pression of sympathy and goodwill, and is
intended to make his recovery as comfortable
and free from worry as possible while he is
thinking out a new way of earning a living.
“Fax”: The late Frank Cullenane,
as the heavy father used to set me
thinking of Ned Holloway. Poor old
Ned never allowed a syl-la-ble to re-
ceive less than its due. His admonition
to the flippant juveniles of the Dampier Co.
has passed into history. They were playing
“Robbery Under Arms,” or “The Crime at
the Cross Roads” or some other great work,
and he thought that the light-hearted boys
slurred their lines. “You young fel-lows,”
said Ned, after a rehearsal, “pay in-suf-fie-i-ent
at-ten-tion to your el-o-cu-tion: you should
speak eas-i-ly and nat-ur-ally, like I do.”
Cullenane didn’t talk with the same solemn
regard for detail as the old Dampierian
actor, but in histrionic spirit tney were akin.
“0.K.”: Comedian G. W. Anson, true
to tradition, fancied himself in pathetic and
tragic scenes. Coming from “the provinces”
where he started his reputation, his first
appearance in London was in the character
of a villainous spy who ultimately howled
with terror at the prospect of being torn to
pieces by an angry mob., When the William-
son firm engaged him —that was before he
went over to Brough and Boucicault—he
mixed his lines of business considerably. For
‘ instance, he played a heavy villain in a
production of “New Babylon,” wherein Billy
Elton, not yet required for comic opera, was
in charge of the low-comedy department.
Elton, unlike Anson, never departed from
the broad-comedy line in drama, and his big-
gest Australian success, outside of comic
opera, was scored in “Hands Across the
Sea,” where he somewhat outshone Charles
Warner, who played the hero. Warner’s
jealousy of Elton was amusingly evident
when he used to intrude upon the little man’s
call before the curtain.
“Blackout”: Once again life has vindi-
cated the stage. In a melodrama of a past
year Eugenie Duggan used to escape from
a burning building over a telephone wire,
and critics wrote of “improbability.” eow
a prisoner has adopted the same means of
escaping ' from Melbourne Gaol —a much
more difficult task.
“T. Emdee” : Julius Knight first came to
Australia in the late ’eighties, as a member
of a co. having for its star Laura Villiers
and for its leading man Clifton Alderson.
The chief attraction was “The Dancing
Girl,” rather a good play, but the co. was
not successful. It came under engagement
to the . then newly-organised Australian
Theatrical Management Co., which had for
its king-pin Amory Sullivan. Knight was
playing seconds to Alderson, and had the
positions been reversed tlie season would have
drawn more money. Knight was not too
well treated by the actors of those days, and
his subsequent aloofness was really due to
his disposition being soured. Knight is a
Scot (James Kirkpatrick, of Ayr), and even
now burrs his r’s. His presence in Walter
Bentley’s co. was an aftermath of the dis-
bandment of the Laura Villiers crowd, but
it is rather rough on him to say (B.
27/11/T9) that he was inconspicuous.
Julius was .a handsome chap, and he always
attracted attention from those who make or
mar actors —women.
“Melb”: The most popular opera of the
Melbourne season appears to be “Tales of
Hoffmann” —but I think that is only because
the most singers perform in it. Offenbach,
who wrote it (and 90 other operas and
operettas), w T as a Jew’, and his name was
i,evy. Hoffmann, though known as artist
and musical composer, was above all a story-
writer. It is almost worth learning German
to read his weird yarns. They gave some
ideas to Heine, and to our own Emily
Bronte. You can trace his influence in her
“Wuthering Heights.”
“Belle Canto” : Women players have been
helping Sydney theatrical managers over
their difficulty with the
Professional Musicians’
Union. The women’s
union has as president
Ella Airlie, who wrote
“The Buny i p” panto-
mime ; and Eileen O’Neil,
who has been in vaude-
ville, is vice-pres. Women
players claim that
O’Brien’s P.M.U. ha s
never given them a fair
deal, and that men-mem-
bers often refuse to play
in the same orchestra as
girls. Meanwhile there
seems no desire on the
part of the stage-hands
(who were hard hit over
the influenza restrictions)
to sympathise other than
verbally with the strikers.
They realise that, while
the orchestra is capable of
giving a show of its own
and raking in something
to keep the menagerie off
the doorstep, an exhibition
of stag e scene-shifting
wouldn’t coax fourpence
in the collection-plate even
if they had the scenery
to shift. The musicians
are apparently following
the lead set by the actors
in the American equity
strike, and are giving
some free shows and
other cheap shows, the
idea being to attract the
public away from its
beaten track to the regu-
lar box offices. If those
tactics are pursued with
anything like success, this
looks like being the only strike on record out
of which the public will get anything but
kicks and cuffs.
“Blackout”: As given by the Mermaid
Play Society—first at South Yarra and more
recently at Melbourne Playhouse—“ Ever-
yman” showed that a cast which is mainly
amateur may sometimes’ have advantages
over a professional one. These young peopie
worked with dignified sincerity and with
natural treatment of the naivete of the old
play, avoiding the cheapnesses that would
have been inevitable from some at least of
the members of a professional cast. With
education and intelligence, they had evi-
dently been teachable, and had known the
play right through before they tried to act it
This having been said, it may be complained
that the society made a grievous mistake by
not keeping the public better acquainted with
the fact that a city season of a week was
being given. The papers were evidently well
disposed, but practically no use was made
of their columns, even in the friend-
ship. Few Melbourne theatregoers set out
for a show without glancing at a newspaper
to see whether it is still running, and for ail
they could tell “Everyman” might have been
abandoned after the first night. Well in
advance of their next production—Shaks-
peare’s rarely-staged “Winter’s Tale” —the
Mermaids ought to send out a melodious call
for assistance to some friend who knows a
little about publicity.
“M.D.”: Henry Ivolker, Margaret
Anglin’s leading man in Australia, is still
film-acting. I saw him the other night, and
he looked miserably thin and not the sleek
handsome fellow he was in Sydney some
few years ago. He was playing a compara-
tively subsidiary character, and a villain at
that, so it is perhaps correct that he does
not now hold such a place in the sun as
he did when he supported the fair Mar-
garet in Sydney. Ivolker is a native of
Berlin or its environs, so he told me, and
he had appeared with German stock com-
panies in America, which he reached as a
boy. He was at least 25 before he had cast
off all trace of his accent, and when he
arrived in. Sydney he. was a living example
of the assimilating powers of the great Re-
public—no would know that he was
anything but a polished American gentle-
man.
“Pollio”: What sort of amateurs do the
big dailies use as musical critics? Their
verdicts on any able performer partake of
the comic, but at least are funny; their
ignorance of the simplest musical facts is
vulgar without being in the least funny.
Two of them here in Melbourne lately
tried their hand at Edwmrd Goll’s recital;
they differed almost in every item about their
judgments (this w r as merely common form),
but they agreed to the letter in one thing—
that at his next recital he was to play
“Beethoven’s Sonata Op. 3.” There is, of
course, no Op. 3 among the sonatas; Beet-
hoven’s Op. 3 is an early trio for
strings. They had noted on the programme
that Goll was to play the great last sonata,
Op. Ill—and in sheer ignorance they took
it for 111.
CARNIVAL.
PIERRETTE: "You mustn’t miss the fireworks
to-night. I believe they are most ex-
pensive.”
PIERROT : “Oh, they’ll be waiting for me all
right when I get home. And they'll cost
me at least a new hat!”
“T. D. Emdoe” : What a galaxy of talent
it was that appeared at George Rignold’s
benefit (B. 13/11/’l9) ! Hetty Holroyd sub-
sequently became known as Esta d’Argo, a
sweet soprano, who, after establishing herself
as a success abroad, toured Australia with
a concert co. Hosea Easton was one of the
finest banjo-players the world has heard,
and his Uncle Tom will never be forgotten
by old fogeys like myself. Soprano Annis
Montague is another whom old-timers wor-
shipped, and she and tenor Charles Turner
could alw-’ays draw capacity houses in “Mari-
tana” or “The Bohemian Girl.” Charles
Huenerbein was the pianist; it was he and
Melba who went down the N.S.W. South
Coast and could not draw enough money to pay
for the gas. She was Mrs. Armstrong then.
W. H. Speed was an “Ethiopian artist,” and
although colored-comedian Irving Sayles has
long gone west, there still remains with us
another of the team, Charles Pope.
Apropos early productions of “Uncle Tom’s
Cabin,” one of J. C. Williamson’s earliest
acting successes in Melbourne was in this
play. He was Tom. and Maggie Moore was
Topsy, and Nellie Stewart, Alfred Dampier
and Charlie Taylor (who ended his career
in the middle of a performance at Melbourne
Palace) were in the cast. The angel child
was “little Lillie Bryer.” Tom was played
during J.C.W.’s first season, when the local
management thought so poorly of the two
newcomers’ chances that it reckoned it
safer to take them on terms than pay ’em
the £3o' per week they asked. Instead of
the thirty, Williamson was soon taking four
hundred.
“Bally Who”: The Yanks had so modern-
ised vaudeville that they made it dead-easy
for the acrobatic Australian St. Leons when
they tried their luck with Uncle Sam. For
years past all the Yank athletic offerings
have been in either evening or walking
dross. The St. Leons attribute their
success to the novelty of their old-style
circus tights—something father hadn’t seen
since he was a boy.
THE BEST EVER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The fine old fellow next to me
Last evening in the stalls
Advised me that I’d only see
Within the four square walls
Of any theatre on earth
One actor of such gracious worth
As might excel young Frederick White
Who played the hero fair that night.
“He is my son,’’ the good man said.
“He’s handsome, and his art
Is scholarly. He has the head
To grapple any part.
He has the gift, too. Truth to tell
I’ve seen him Hamlet play so well
That but one artist lives who can
Out-point this excellent young man.
He has a splendid presence, too.
His elocution now
Is just superb. There’s but one who
So courts the Muse, I vow.”
“Who is,” I asked, “this other one
By whom the brightest is outdone ?”
He tapped his breast, and spoke me fair-
“l also am, an actor, sir.”
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


r,
S':
Si*
i:
4
r
m
m
mmm
Wkl
if
111
if
k - ♦
I
■
gg§gm&
ml
%
■
n
as
I
Si
«I
mm
:f ■&
till
m
-
Z
I
1
FA
E
••••••
V;<
i
-
-■
■
m
■ ■
a
M
MiS
H
■
mm
mm
if..
■ ■■ / ■■.
1
—r TII .HI. <*** vnr M-
.
*5-—’""SSSSSS
ehhhhh
MB
Perdriau
Tyres
Satisfy
the Taxi Driver
THE Private Hire Man and the
Taxi Driver watch tyre mileage
carefully.
Running cars for their living, mileage
intimately affects their earnings.
Neither guesswork nor theory has any
place in their estimation of tyre values.
They are essentially practical men, and
their judgment can be accepted as sound.
Here we reproduce the opinion of a lead-
Sydney Hire Garage on Perdriau Tyres.
Obtainable from your Garage or the Manufacturers
Perdriau Rubber Co*, Ltd*
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
DOLPHIN STREET (near aquarium) COOGEE
TELEPHONES
368
369
randwick'
Us
TELEPHONES
368
369
RA/JDWIOK
October 7th
1919,
(WHERE THE GOOD
CARS ARE).
McLEOD'S HIRE GARAGE
Messrs Perdriau Rubber Co.
270 George Street, Sydney.
Bear Sira,
Tile 920 X 120 covers we purchased from you have
given very satisfactory results. So far they have covered
5000 miles on the rear wheels of a Mitchell six & have
outworn higher prioed imported tyres hy 1000 miles.
As you know, we have a very extensive hire business
running eleven oars, and have not only used every tyre in the
market but our business necessitates our keeping a very
careful record of each cover, and we are satisfied that
Perdriau tyres offer the best value worked out on the cost
per mile.
fours Faithfully,
McEEODS HIRE OARAGE.
hoop iht"duco/
I
1 I
mm
m mm


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
-ole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
WHAT MAKES THE WHEELS GO ROUNfi?
LEWIS &WnITTY MAKERS
“Hang them
by the Loop.”
“LESLIE”
Salt Licks.
A Merciful Man is Merciful lb Mis Brute
• ■ihhlmi «l MMJ
I. IHIIIUMI utilHMlt
“Leslie” Salt Licks are now made in Australia!
The demand has hitherto exceeded the supply., hut from
now on there will be ample stocks to provide for the
requirements of the whole of Australia.
Never mind the imitations —insist upon
the original Lick —“Leslie’s” —the one
free from dirt, alum and other im-
purities. Best for all animals.
700,000 Cases Sold Last Year
All Storekeepers, Produce
Merchants, Saddlers and
Blacksmiths throughout
Australasia.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
MICK
SIMMONS
SPROTING
NEEDS
Respectable old battler Bullengarook, who
won the Bendigo Cup, to the huge delight of his
local followers, was identified with a very interesting
race in the early Spring. On August 23 he won a
handicap at Caulfield from a field of mostly unripe
animals, and among those lately up from the paddock
were Artilleryman, St. Mira and Chal. Within the
next 10 weeks Artilleryman had proved himself the
best colt of his year, if not the best horse in Aus-
tralia, while St. Mira unexpectedly won the Toorak
at Caulfield, and Chal even more unex-
pectedly got away with the £2OOO Cantala Stakes,
both events lost by Lucknow through his failure to
get promptly off the mark. On the middle day of
the Caulfield Cup meeting Bullengarook was quietly
backed for a lot of money for the Moonga Handicap
(seven furlongs), and the old gelding beat everything
bar Lord Setay, with Hyades third. Considering
that Hyades afterwards scored a lucky win in the
Oaks, it would seem that Lord Setay, who was
giving weight to Bullengarook and the filly, put up
a fair performance when he beat them handsomely
at Caulfield. The subsequent Cup proved too fast a
race for him, after he had helped to make the
record pace; but evidently Lord Setay is one of the
smartest gallopers that Adelaide has been capable
of in the last few yeairs. S. Aus. turns out no top-
notchers, or notable second-cdassers, these times. The
jumping nags are as mediocre as the flat racers.
But Lord Setay is at least a Triton among minnows.
A jockey with a, reputation has a wide
field to work in. Frank Bullock, on his way to
England, will trip to Perth and do some turns at
the W.A.T.C. meeting before catching the mail
steamer. At about the time that Bullock is off to
Perth R. Horne takes: the boat for Maoriland (his
native country) to get some lucrative horseback
exercise at the Auckland Cup meeting, ere return-
ing to Melbourne at the hottest time of year, which
is the time that jockeys mostly love. Writer once
heard a Turkish-bath discussion on winter among a
number of hard-faced “boys.” It was July in
Melbourne, and they didn’t approve of it a bit. The
chief spokesman had no blanky use for winter.
He put it to the other blokes whether they had any
blanky use for winter. The question went around
the hot wooden benches where they were stretched
in perspiration, and the boys were unanimous in
having no blanky use fbr a low temperature.
At the Feilding (MX.) races, the Kil-
bronev —-Simper colt Affectation, who ran third in
the M.L. Derby, ran second to Acre in the Feilding
Stakes, a w.f.a. event over five furlongs. The much-
travelled Snub had a similar position in the St.
Andrew’s Handicap.
* * * *
Touching the Bendigo Cup it was announced
that “Mr. W. Coutts, owner of Bullengarook, won, in
addition to the £4OO stake, about £l2OO in a
well-known consultation, while he also supported the
gelding in another direction.” It would be interest-
ing to know whether Mr. Coutts drew a winning
ticket, or, if he didn’t, what happened between him
and the person who did. If the ticket-drawer thought
it advisable to chuck a £l2OO offer at Mr. Coutts,
as an inducement to him to start the horse for Ben-
digo Cup, then it is clear that people are particular
fools to invest in any sweep on a minor racing event.
If a Tatt.’s investor draws a possible starter for a
handicap worth a couple of thousand pounds or more,
he knows that the horse is bound to be going for it
unless its chance is positively hopeless, so he needn’t
worry about offering the owner an inducement to try
to win. In fact, the ticket-drawer who “communi-
cates” with the owner of a Melbourne Cup favorite
is a nervous ass, with whom it were waste of time'
to argue. But in the case of the annual -sweep on
Bendigo Cup the notion of a “necessary inducement”
is not so wildly unreasonable; and that makes it
inadvisable to have a flutter in such sweeps. What
with the Tasmanian tax on tickets, and the Federal
tax of 13 per cent, on all prizes, a speculator is
quite Sufficiently sweated without having the dread
of not being able to win one of the three big prizes
unless he contracts to ~jve a slice of it to the
stranger who owns the horse.
There is method in the badness of the sys-
tem that the Melbourne authorities are pursuing
with Henry Stokes. Stokes runs a two-up school,
and with his ill-gotten gains, seemingly, “squares”
juries that are asked to convict in connection with the
much-talked-of vendetta. The Law is now taking its
revenge on Stokes’s two-up school. Three convictions
have resulted in tines of £25, £75 and £5OO. His
appeal against the £5OO was heard, and dismissed, at
the last sessions. So it appears that Stokes will nor
be able to afford vendettas if he continues to keep
a “school” and the nolice continue to do their duty.
At the end of a series of £5OO fines he won’t have
much “squaring” money left. He’ll be as im-
poverished as John Wren ought to have become in the
days when the police didn’t keep on raiding his
unlawful shop.
' The finals of the Melbourne tennis tour-
nament drew a great house to the Albert Ground on
Saturday, 'the accommodation was too small for the
multitude that wanted a close-up of the Brookes-
Patterson engagement, and hundreds stood in the
sun to .watch the collision of the two champions and
the concluding battles in the doubles. Patterson's
victory over Brookes was generally regarded as a
foregone conclusion; yet it wasn’t so much Patter-
son’s hurricane service as Brookes’s feeble ground-
play which gave the youngster an early margin.
Present writer has found Patterson backward in the
court-craft that makes a world’s champion, but
aglainst Brookes on Saturday he played fine tennis
and thoroughly deserved his great win. In the
final of the doubles he and Brookes received the sur-
prise of their lives. Opposed by the campanile figure
of Wertheim and the recent schoolboy Hawlces, the
internationals were popularly expected to get the
decision in a three-set game. But Ilawkes and
Wertheim snapped the first set at 6—3, and, cap-
turing the next, S.—6, began to produce an electri-
fying atmosphere. Hereabouts Wertheim’s errors
were more fruitful of disaster than even Brookes’s
poor form earlier in the play; and Hawkes, who
played the best game of the four, had the mor-
tification of becoming a loser through few faults
of his own. This youngster, whom The Bulletin
noticed with approval last week, is prominent in
the queue for Davis Cup rank. A left-hander like
Brookes, he serves a slow, deceitful ball which both
Brookes and Patterson treat with respect. Hawkes
lost few games off his own service, and some of his
close net work was like a poem. Brookes frequently
failed to hit him properly, and Patterson, a rather
reckless walloper at all times, either shot out or
netted a lot of returns from Hawkes’s service. In
the mixed doubles Lycett and Mrs. Ford scored
over Wertheim and Miss Schlesinger, Probably
Ross Smith’s machine on the Flight to Australia carries a crew of four. —Rough guess
at how they are employed en route.
through the heat the ladies were slow and unre-
liable, and the battle resolved itself into a duel
between Lyeett and Wertheim in which Lycett’s
accuracy extinguished the momentary hopes of the
enemy.
On the-eight days’ play Hawkes (Vic.),' Anderson
(N.S.W.) and Thomas (S.A.) seemed most entitled
to stand near Brookes and Patterson. Thomas es-
pecially : he gave Patterson his hardest tussle. All
round he played better than Patterson, and fre-
quently treated the famous service with nonchalance.
Among doubles players Taylor and Sandral deserve
an lion, mention. They are both colts from the
M.C.C., and their downin'- of Thomas and Lyeett by
three sets to one was notable.
* * * *
The Davis Cup tennis team is on the way
to Australia by the Wahehe, which sailed from Lon-
don on October 30. This steamer is a captured
German ship, and, as she has an excellent swimming
bath and gymnasium, the team should be able to
keep fit. Col. A. R. Ifingscote won the Davis Cup
match with France after France and England were
two matches all. Lieut. Ernest Beamish, who has
been in France practically for the duration of the
war, visited Australia with the last team, and is
a very graceful left-hander with some dazzling shots.
Major A. H. Lowe is a brother of Gordon (“Pussy”)
Lowe, who was with the last visiting Cup team. Max
Woosnam, who has been asked to make up the four,
is one of the best all-round athletes in England. He
is a quadruple Cambridge “Blue” for football, lawn
tennis, Royal tennis and golf. He plays hockey,
too, and was 12th man for Cambridge ’Varsity'
cricket eleven.
‘O. Blin” : On his form in Melbourne last
week Gerald Patterson doesn’t play like a world-
beater. He may be a trifle below concert-pitch, and
it is possible that his mighty forearm grows wearV
of propelling his formidable service, but his ground
play is frequently a variety show, without the finesse
of Brookes or the accuracy of R. V. Thomas. At
Present the reputation of his fine service
and his shock tactics is affecting the morale
of most of his opponents, but his record as a double-
f a lilt or has already robbed his attack of some of its
terrors, whilst an experienced hand like Thomas has
proved that the prize ball in Gerald’s repertoire can
go back like a “reply paid” wire into an inaccessible
section of the server’s territory. Patterson has a
favorite spectacular stroke—a smash so terrific that
the consciousness of the ball being shot out of play
is synchronous with the sight of the missile landing -
in the street outside. But smashes don’t win
matches so much as generalship, and in that his
doubles partner, Brookes, has occasionally to con-
tribute enough for both.
* * * *
Premier Lawson, who would have played
in the cricket match between a State Parliamentary
eleven and the Navy on Friday but for a hurriedly-
arranged trip to Sydney to see Holman, was almost
as good a batsman as a footballer before he took to
politics. In one match at Castlemaine he knocked
up 104 runs.
* * » *
The fourth round of cricket in Adelaide
left East Torrens with a clear lead. This club
(for which Arthur Richardson does half the bowl-
ing and about a third of the batting) has now IS
points, with four won games. Port had to be
content with a moral victory over Adelaide, but is
unbeaten, and the coming ntatch with East Torrens
should be worth watching. Sturts have lost only
one game, and were unlucky to lose that; so the
season is full of promise.
Adelaide Corporation, in its annual re-
port, shows that the park lands encircling the city
find room for just 200 “authorised” games. The
Oval and the University Oval, of course, find a
home for all sorts in their season; so does the
Jubilee Oval near by. But any club can, on appli-
cation, get a right to the use of a pitch for its
particular sport. And there are great areas still
unused. Cricket clubs hold 63 permits, football sa,
the rapidly-increasing tennis 58. The rest include
lacrosse, hockey, golf, bowls, croquet and a running-
track. The Adelaide Racing Club is an extra item.
Many of the aforesaid pitches are inside the Club’s
mile-and-a-half track.
“15-30” : The recent tennis discussion in
Melbourne suggests that the method of umpiring
should be radically amended. The present perch
at the net doesn’t give the umpires the right of
infallible decisions regarding back-line balls, and
there were embarrassing instances—once particularly
in the argument between Patterson and Thomas—
where the umpire’s shout of “Outside” was imme-
diately corrected by a roar from a large section
of the crowd who had seen the ball land safely
inside the line. After those bloomers the expedient
was tried of seating additional umpires at the N.-W.
and S.-E. corners, and this, though reducing the
chances of error, still left the risk of doubtful deci-
sions regarding the other corners. Another trouble
is the economical habit of making one man double
the parts of umpire and scorer. It needs close at-
tention to watch every ball for “faults,” shout
the state of the game after every winning shot and
record the result in a book. Wherefore it was not
surprising that an umpire occasionally double-faulted
in the score, and one had his arithmetic amended
by Norman Brookes.
* * # •
A Westralian flying record was established
recently when a three-year-old homing pigeon owned
by Thomas Brown, of Dumbleyung, winged its way
home from S. Aus. The bird was loosed from
Hughes, 10 miles beyond the S.A. border, and
arrived at its loft two days five hours afterwards.
Minister Scaddan, an ardent fancier at one time,
was the breeder of the homer, which carries the
name of Happy Jack.
“Chev”: Hackenschmidt, whose position
during the war was lately under discussion in The
Bulletin, has taken unto himself a wife, a petite
French girl born at Dunkerque. The ex-wrestling
champion is living at his bungalow on the Sussex
coast, and the only change I can perceive in him
from the photo he sends is that he has gone a trifle
bald. He says he is quite well and in pretty good
shape. He writes: “I was on my wav' back to
England when the war started. First of all they
put me into the prison, but I was afterwards released
and placed under police surveillance. Three years
we lived in Berlin; the last 18 months in Bavaria.
I did not like the Prussians, but the Bavarians are
quite a very decent lot of people; they are much
more human than in Prussia... .You can imagine how
happy I was getting 0ut....1 am preparing some-
thing very interesting. I’ll let you know shortly
what it is and how I am progressing.”
S.A. Yacht Squadron has celebrated its
jubilee, two foundation members, Playfair and Rus-
sell, being present at the celebration. Sanderson,
tlie commodore, recalled the early days when Gover-
nor Fergusson and Judge Bundey were prominent
supporters. Thomas Elder’s Edith, William Milne's
Hygeia and Bundey’s Zephyr were leading boats in
the ’seventies. In later years motor-boat racing
has come in, and Rymill’s Tortoise holds the
Aust. championship. Also, with Magnus Wald as
secretary, the old Bank of Australasia building at
Port Adelaide has been secured as a home, and
the social side of the Club has gone ahead.
Greenwood (GO). Groves (29) and Han-
nah (20), three water-waggoners, made nearly all
the score of 116 runs knocked up by the Vic.
State Parliament in the match against the Naval
Depot on the M.C.C. Ground bn Friday ; and Han-
nah, who skippered the nolitical eleven, took six
of the ten Navy wickets. Rogers, the Opposition
whip, who made a duck, took revenge by sub-
marining three of the wave-rulers. In the first
innings the law-makers beat the mariners bv 16—
116 to 100. Had there been time, or had less time
been given to lunch, the sailors might have come
off Victors, as they shifted five politicians for 11
in the second innings.
At Melbourne last week N.S.W. bowlers
won the rubber by 97—87, 75 —123 and 95 —84.
However, it ‘was a “moral victory” for the Vic-
torians. They had an aggregate of 294 to N.S.W.’s
267, and won in eight out of 12 rinks. Denniston
(Vic.) had the best rink win (43 —12), while
Morey’s 37—14 was the top for N. S. Wales.
Champion Ernie Austen, of N.S.W.,
walked the half-mile on a heavy track in 3min.
7sec. on Saturday. Which was only 7sec. worse
than the Australasian record put up by D. Wilson at
Auckland in 1897.
T. Sarnpey (Maitland Juniors) almost
cleaned up the programme in the challenge match o.
Sydney Juniors at Maitland on Saturday. Of nine
events he won 100yds., 220yds., 440yds., broad
jump and high jump. In the other events, J. Sher-
rington (Sydney) won the half and mile; F. Heeuey
(Maitland) the pole vault; and O. Cardow (Mait-
land) was first in the hop, step and jump. Mait-
land won with 42 points to 17.
* * * *
Jack Parsons (8-valve Indian), in Vic.
motor-cycle clubs’ handicaps last week, left seven
rmles behind in smin. 21sec.
Playing for the home-coming A.I.F. XI
against a Jo’burg team, skipper 11. L. Collins made
235 (out of 441), and took five wickets for 32.
The veteran boxer takes a lot of stopping.
In the course of the last few days Jimmy Olabby
(who claims to have been born in 1890, but who was
winning on k.o.’s in 1906) stopped Jack Heeney,
M.L. s middle-weight champion, inside 10 rounds;
Billy Wells overwhelmed Towuley ; Sam Langford
won on a knockout, and Jack Johnson announced his
return to the ring. Jack is 45, or thereabouts, and
foug’ht (and won) his last fight in Madrid during
the war.
*- * * *
Frank Brogan and Eddy Kelly, the Yank,
boxed a funereal 20 rounds at Sydney Stadium on
Saturday night. Brogan appeared to be apprehensive
and Kelly nervous. Also Kelly was nonplussed by
Brogan’s habit of boxing with the right hand for-
ward, while Brogan was irritated by the fact that
usually when he smote at Kelly the latter was not
there. The performers were, heartily counted out b>
a large crowd several times, but failed to take the
hint. Brogan got the decision; and no doubt if
one was less futile than tlie other it was he.
Said Sydney Telegraph (27/11/’l9) :
“The most useless class of horse for anything but
sport is the type that racing men aim at producing.”
On the contrary, it is the best. There is nothing to
touch a thoroughbred hunter, whether for safety or
for speed. The stout-looking half-bred, trained as
for a circus, may jump accurately for a while; but
he tires quickly, and when he falls he collapses in a
heap. The thoroughbred refuses to accept defeat —
that is, if he is the right sort. No man who has
driven thoroughbreds will, look at anything else if
he can afford it. As for military chargers—well,
ask any cavalryman, heavy or light, who came
through the late fighting which class of horse he
would pick for general utility work in the field.
Nine out of ten will say a thoroughbred. The class
of horse that racing-mcn aim at producing is an
ArtnUeryman, a Flying Fox or a Cloister —animals
with light, strong and sloping shoulders, big quar-
ters, big barrels, long reins and sound legs and
feet. Such prizes are capable of doing anything
that may be asked of a horse outside the “cart”
class. _ that racing-men frequently produce weeds
in their pursuit of the perfect type is chiefly the
fault of Nature, which only Has a limited number of
Gloamings, Les Darcys and M. A. Nobles in stock.
“Mulga”: Died recently at Eidsvold Hos-
pital (Q.), from the after-effects of an accident, Tom
French, who had passed 91 and was probably the
oldest and m.ost nomadic bookmaker in Australia.
French was born near Scone (N.S.W.). He claimed
to have been in nearly all the early N. S. Wales
gold rushes, and to have witnessed every sporting event
worth seeing between the ’fifties and ’seventies. A
great spinner of yarns and occasionally a diner-out,
he would never sleep in a house if he could dodge it.
He drove from town to town, pitching his camp
wherever there was grass and water for his horses.
* * * *
“FY7”: Westralian miners have made
that side of the Commonwealth familiar with the
North of England sport of whippet racing, with its
accompaniments of betting, booze and blanky. So
far they haven’t tried hound-trailing—a sort of
drag hunting—-which is all the go nowadays among
the Lancashire and Yorkshire pitmen. It’s a simple
affair. An aniseed drag is laid, and the competing
hounds are put on it when the ring has filled its
bag. The owner or backer of the first hound to
smell its way to the far-off winning post collects.
A gentleman recently faced a North Lancashire beak
over the game. He knew the hounds had to cross
a road some miles away, and, getting there early
on a motor-bike, he grabbed the favorite, who was
leading, and held him till the others had got a
good lead. Meanwhile a pal back at the starting-
post had dealt faithfully with Ikey.
* * * *
“Karim Khan” : I’m entering a one-armed
Maoriland Digger against “Jobber’s” man from Colo
Vale. A Fritz revolver-bullet shattered his right
elbow, and the m.o. had to amputate. He hasn’t
had much practice with the other wing; yet when
I ran’ against him’the other day, in a Maoriland
billiard saloon, he was busy compiling a break ’of
35 with it.
THE DISHONESTY OF JIDD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Give me a dinkum honest man,”
The bookie said, and heaved a sigh—-
“A good straightforward bloke as can
Jist take you warmly by the fin,
And shake it with a liopen grin,
And look you squarely in the eye.
But Dinnie Jidd he's not my sort—
I cuts him out, as good men ort.
“He ain’t quite straight, ’n’ that’s enough.
I’ve tried the blighter, and I know.
Not clean, he ain’t—not sterling stuff;
The way he treated me was vile.
And I’m all white. You know my style.
It was about that horse, The Crow.
They ran him in the Western Cup,
And little Dinnie Jidd was up.
“The Crow was fancied, and we thought
We’d slip the jock a hundred quid
To go the other way. We bought
Him out for cash, and fifty down
We paid the boy that night in town.
He taught' us somethin’, ’struth he did.
He’s got no principles, my son.
The blighter rode The Crow, and won!’’
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


Boxing Teaches Self-Reliance.
—it helps you to foster a spirit of
restraint and self-control. It gives
you confidence in times when you will
be called upon to defend yourself.
You cannot tell when you will have to
face the “bully” or defend the weak.
I Teach Boxing
by Post.
The instruction is practical, simple and easily under-
stood. It thoroughly explains and illustrates every
serviceable movement in Scientific Boxing.
You reap the benefit of my many years’ experience
and keen observation of the best moves of the
world’s best boxers.
You now have the opportunity of cultivating your
natural ability, of making good use of the means
•Nature has given you to protect yourself. Those desiring
to avail themselves of personal instruction at my
Institute are invited to call and have a chat with
me and see a demonstration.
Write for my FREE BOOKLET, “Scientific Boxing in Your
Home. Send three stamps for postage.
RE-O. L. (“Snowy**) BAKER,
The Champion Ail-round Athlete of Australia,”
160 Municipal Buildings, Oxford St. (Cor. Crown St.), Sydney.
m
mm
KskkwM*
-THE GREAT ~v
ATLANjWFUGHT
SHELL
BENZINE
WAS USED
in the Vickers-Vimy Bombing
Aeroplane flown by Capt.
Alcock and Lieut. A. \V.
Brown.
H*
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell § Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to self.
Personal Attention.
Office-
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Missing Friends.
Notice.— Mrs. Christina higl.
(widow of the late Edward Kepp-el
Hill). Information required of the where-
abouts of Mrs. CHRISTINA HILL or her
Next of Kin. Messrs. Beaumont and Son,
of 66 Gresham House, Old Broad Stfeet,
London, E.C.2. have information to the
advantage of the above.
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOR
MINING, MILLING, etc.
INCLUDING
STEAM ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,’
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL BE POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO
THE SECRETARY
Box 229 G.P.0.,
MELBOURNP.
THE GENERAL MANAGER
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
THE SECRETARY,
Box 220 G.P.0.,
SYDNLY.
STONE BREAKERS.
Portable Stone Breakers, Portable Bins
and Screens, Crushing Rolls, Elevators.
MANUFACTURED BY—
JAQUES BROS. Pty. Ltd.,
Coppin Street, Richmond, MELBOURNE, VIC.
Send for our Illustrated Catalog No. 20.
for Indigestion.
'
'M
u
//
M
'//M*
V#.
Sill
F
;«
///
W •Uf /i'- v
"" W%'
Vii j w
• / -.
1
n
>ST Horseman experience difficulty in
obtaining breeches that are absolutely
faultless as to fit. There is so often some minor incor-
rectness in the cutting that renders the garments uncom-
fortable in wear and possibly shortens the period of
their serviceability. For instance, have not YOU had
breeches that were just a little too tight at the knee with
the consequence that difficulty was experienced when
mounting or the stitching gave way just as the strain was
put on the left knee?
ho- ~B re® c hes are cut by men experienced in the production
of Hiding Garments—men who know exactly how Breeches
must be cut to be completely satisfactory. We quote our special
32 6
for the man who wants something serviceable at a low
k pact te w ures ,V p , to i 4 - patterns are
\ POST FREE. We will gladly make you a trial pair,
and if they prove unsatisfactory you need not keep
them. Why not drop us a line to-day ?
Lincoln, Stuart & Co. Pty. Ltd.
244-254 Flinders St. Melbourne


t.
' *•:
s*s™
|§gag|
Saf&
attdTog^-cts'lidtf:
N indispensable item for
the business man is a
good note wallet, for holding
bank notes or other small
papers. The wallet illus-
trated is neat in appearance,
made safe and convenient,
from high-grade Russia or
Morocco leather.
Special value. Price
2/6
FARMER* SSYDISIEY
QJt-o fcnrJYfo'yv.
Box 497 (3.P.0. Vi/q Patj ©are-iage
Enter—a New Era
of Clothesmaking.
The time is now come when, by a
specialised knowledge of the figure
feminine and of the clothes-making
art, Shave’s can make the most perfect-
fitting Gowns and Tailor Suits without
fittings. To those at a distance it is
a decided boon.
SHAVE,
Ladies’ Tailors,
Dressmakers,
Centreway,
Melbourne.
Melton i an
IV 1 high-class
{SPECIALTIES
Creams
iT<!
Pastes
tor
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-clsss Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANG LTD.
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne.
i
E. DROWN © SONS LONDON
AGENCIES • ALL. - OVER • THE • WORLD
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warners
Rust Proof
Corsets
The shadow of ex-Governor Beauchamp
must direct the denartment that issues
tickets to Commonwealth ceremonies. At
the launch of the Dumosa in Melbourne the
other day a pink ticket provided a close
view for some people who had merely fought
in the war. The pink ticket, however, was
quite useless for the subsequent feeding, at
which political people and their families and
friends were very conspicuous. For that
a brown ticket was necessary, and it was
surprising how few of the real doers had
them.
Federal Government House is just being
cleared up after the invasion of Arts and
Crafts, who have been demonstrating there
for a fortnight and trying to show Aus-
tralians what can be done with this country’s
raw materials. There was fabric-weaving
from Australian-grown fibres and wool; and
dyeing with extracts of things that grow in
Australia; and cutting and polishing tor-
toiseshell brought from the Territory and
Westralia. The only things that were not
Australian were loan exhibits shown for
the guidance of workers. Three rooms were
furnished as an object-lesson—one of the
18th century in mahogany with silver-plate
and china trimmings; another of the 17th
century in oak with pewter; the third, as
a contrast, modern style in Australian woods.
The forest-loving G.-G. used to act as a
showman for that third room. He was very
keen on the exhibit, and lent a lot of his own
collection of hardwoods. President Walker,
of the Apple Island Arts and Crafts, came
over specially for the show, which must
have done the funds a power of good, for
thousands of people thronged in and paid
gate-money.
During the voyage home, fellow-passengers
discovered how dapper little “Bob” Collins—
the knighted Robert Muirhead Collins—has
been filling in his time in London since he
ceased to be official secretary at Australia
House. He’s been learning dancing. At all
the jazz parties held aboard, a small
gentleman with lightning feet, a grey beard
and a bald head careered in a practised way,
cleverly dodging all deck obstructions, feo
expert was he that his partners were the
most youthful and beautiful of the girls.
Among the most astonished onlookers were
Senator Pearce and his wife. The gyrations
of the former Secretary for Defence seemed
to dazzle them.
Gentleman-help Duncan was dragged be-
fore the District Court the other day like
any mere fish-hawker, and fined for having
disposed of his motah without taking the
Chief Commissioner of John Hops into his
confidence. The Captain explained that he
had sold the beastly thing to his brother,
don’tclierknow, and had quite forgotten to
inform the police. The P.M. intimated that
the Law would take £2 and say no more
about the matter.
Studley Hall, Ivew, home of the Pinschofs
in pre-war days, and a State white elephant
for nearly two years, is to be offered at
auction on December 23. Bowser, the then
Health Minister, backed up by Treasurer
McPherson, paid £5600 for the 60-roomed
mansion and the 3| acres in which it stands,
and that amount has been fixed as the upset
price. The Hall may be secured for residential
flats, especially as the terms (one-eighth cash
and the rest in 20 half-yearly instalments,
with only 4 per cent, interest) are tempt-
ing. Squatter Simpson spent, or wasted,
£25,000 in building the “stately home.” The
Gibson, Mannix, Wren and other palaces,
which are near neighbors, look modern beside
it. Bowser bought the place for a venereal
hospital for women, but a Government veto
came after McPherson’s influential con-
stituents at Kew had put the acid on; and
the Economy Ministry has been paying £2BO
a year as interest, apart from caretaking
exes.
The Collins-street roof golfers have had
a severe blow. The club is shut down while
members repent of their sins. The club-
men meet on the elevated roof of Collins
House. There are putting greens of well-
tended turf and double nets around the high
Gothic arches. Once, it is true, an escaped
ball bashed a Collins-street pedestrian; but
he was a sporty old chap and did not make
a fuss. But this time a ball escaped and
smashed into a bank next door. Banks are
hard, unsympathetic concerns with a native
objection to being smashed; so the Collins-
street Roof Golf Club drives no more —not
till things calm down, anyhow.
Osborne House, once the palatial home
of Philip Russell, squatter, is to be taken
over as part of the Naval Base at Corio
Bay. The Government received the house
as a free gift some years ago, and it was
run as a Naval College. During the war
it was a hospital, first for soldiers, and later
for convalescent nurses, especially those who
had been abroad.
Tennis has raged at the Warehousemen’s
Ground all the week, and thousands have
rushed out and grilled in the sun. Tennis
champions swank into eafds for lunch or
tea on their off-days, and half the sassiety
girls insist on carrying at least two racquets
up Collins-street.
Cororooke House, for some years past
the home of the Everard Brownes, has been
bought by John Lang, along with a slice
of country. Some of the squattage next
to Lang’s purchase fetched £lOO an acre —a
record for the Colac district.
The Church of England Grammar School
branch in Ivanhoe, near Heidelberg, has just
bought the very fine Wilcox Estate there,
with mansion and grounds. London’s Char-
terhouse set the fashion by shifting camp to
beauteous Godaiming. Our Scotch College
goes to the Hawthorn Glen chateau, and Gee-
long College to Corio, by the ocean.
Archbishop Delany, of Tasmania, has just
been eloquent in welcoming Coadjutor Barry.
He said that, 25 years ago, he resisted going
to Tasmania with all his powqr; but the isle
cast its spell over him, and now it was the
finest place on earth.
The Green Ball occur-s again on December
17 in the Town Hall. Mrs. William Green
and Florrie will exhibit pupils from toddlers
to full-fledged ballet-stars, and various Gov-
ernors will be there.
Basil, son of the Fritz Harts, is just home
from Mount St. Evin’s Hospital, after an
operation that should put him on the road
to health. Young Basil had a shooting acci-
dent in Bananaland and is still being mended
after nearly two years.
Mrs. Sellheim, President of the Friendly
Union of Soldiers’ Wives, gave a little fare-
well lunch party at Menzies’ in honor of
Mrs. George Wirth and her niece, Mrs.
Cooke. It happened the'day aftei: the big
party the Wirths gave to 6000 soldiers’
children.
Mrs. A. Park, well-known to week-end
trippers to Croydon, has just had her 92nd
birthday. She arrived in Victoria by the
sailing-ship Black Eagle in 1854, accom-
panied by her two sisters. The three are
living, and they count up 250 years among
them.
It is said that next to listening to him-
self pianist Edward Goll best loves lending
an ear to the telling music of Margaret
Sutherland. Some-
thing more than or-
dinary musicianly
capacity has hurried
Margaret to her posi-
tion in Goll’s re-
gard. She was
earnestly hanging
over a piano at the
age of seven, and
patient practice and
fine feeling brought
the usual scholar-
ships and won at
length the post of
understudy teacher
to Edward Goll at
the Uni. Conserva-
torium. That was
in 1018, and she is
still moving onward
and upward, shining significantly in those
Chamber music concerts that are the severest
tests of ability, and lately receiving an invi-
tation to play with the Verbrugghen Orches-
tra in Sydney. In this interesting profile
by Miss Pegg Clarke you can almost see
her intellect working.
Adelaide’s weekly tea-party :
Maude Puddy, who is to be the Conservatorium’s
piano-teacher next year, has left Liverpool in the
Aeneas. Sister Rosa travels home with her.
Two enterprising women came to town this week.
One is Mrs. Basedow, who has put in 18 weeks in
Central Australia, where her husband has been
inquiring into the condition of the blacks. The
other is Jessie Murray, who brought herself and
Mrs. Hardy from Fowler’s Bay to Adelaide per
motor. She split the 400 miles from Walata to
Port Lincoln into two stages, taking -a day for
each, with a day’s spell in between, shipped her
car from Port Lincoln to Wallaroo, and did the
120 miles from there to Adelaide on Thursday.
Leila Doubleday and Max Pirani arrived on Wed-
nesday, and on Friday were given tea by Mayoress
Glover. They are booked for three recitals here.
The Governor watched the Screening of the “Sen-
timental Bloke” on Saturday evening, taking the
Hal Newlands, Jean Duncan and Capt. Alan Dean
with him.
Died on Saturday Mrs. de Reyher, aged 94, and
Miss Catherine Thorne, aged 93. The former came
here with her husband from Russia about 50 years
ago, and he taught music to hundreds of the older
generation. Miss Thorne was a daughter of the Rev.
James Thorne, one of the pioneer Bible Christians,
to whose school in England the late Chief Justice
Way went when he was a small boy.
On Tuesday the Hackett-Moulden dame opened
an exhibition of paintings by Marie Tuck. The col-
lection includes some vigorous studies of Adelaide
streets. An exhibition of water-colors by Miss Farnie
Thomas is booked for next week.
The Brighton Corporation has asked that one
of it wards should be split into two, and has nom-
inated Mrs. B. Benny, wife of one of the Senate
candidates, as a councillor. As soon as the pro-
clamation is issued the lady will take office for a
year at least. She’s our first.
Mrs. R. H. Walters, wife of Captain Walters, has
been holidaying in Adelaide. The Captain lately came
from England to be Commandant of the Naval College
at Jervis Bay. Both have associations with S. Aus.
Mrs. Walter’s mother was a Miss Glen, the first girl
to be married in St. Peter s Cathedral —she was a
granddaughter of Bishop Short. Captain Walters is
Adelaide born —his mother was a Hart.
John Kauffmann, pioneer of photography
as a fine art in Australia, has just had the
pleasure of seeing the first volume of his
work gold out by the
publisher before it
was issued to the
public. Ivauffmann
was born in Adel-
aide, but it was
under Macmurdo, the
well-known English
architect and con-
noisseur, who had
been an early guide
of the famous Frank
Brangwyn, that he
developed the artis-
tic perception and
appreciation of
Nature that he was
later to show with
the camera. Kaufi-
mann has been an
ardent photographer
for over 20 years, and it is characteristic
of his thoroughness that he studied every
branch of the art in the best European
schools before returning to Australia to pic-
ture the gum- and ti-tree and atmospheric
effects which are his inspiration. This
photo of the artist is the work of Elizabeth
Nash-Boothby.
Major Charlie Duffy, only surviving son
of the Judge, will be made one with hand-
some Madge Back on the 29th at the Toorak
R.C. Chapel.
Walter Kirby’s recital at the Princess’s
Theatre was a great social event. The G.-G.
listened in a box, while Lady Helen waved a
sparkling white fan energetically. It was
a sweltering night, and a belated aide
crumpled up in a corner and melted away.
The Irvine dame had a party in another
box. The front row of the circle was heavy
with City Fathers and their wives. Gaud
Mayor Aikman had Mrs. Stein with him.
She wore white satin. Hennessy and his
(lame (she was a dazzling black jet episode
in the heat) had a cool pink-cheeked daughter
with them. Gen. McCay and his daughter
had Archibald Strong in their party. Dr.
Pat Croome was in the limelight of the
front row. Mrs. General Sellheim and the
Dr. Jonas pair had a party. Mining-man
Bloch and his lady were about. The Bowes
Kellys were in force, and Miss Sheehan and
Mrs. Pohlman were also hostesses. Mrs.
Rupert Atkinson was with Mrs. Nathan,
of Maoriland.
Walter Kirby clipped his famous mous-
tache for the occasion and got a rattling-
reception. The operatic rage in musical
London just now is “Beaucaire,” and Walter
sang the famous “Red Rose.” Composer
Edith Harrhy (Captain Con Daly’s wife)
transposed the music for the tenor, and was
in the house to listen. Kirby also sang a
Harrhy song which got an encore.
Walter Kirby invited some hundreds of
people to a party at the Grand after the
recital.' The large dining-room was set for
supper add was crowded. Jazzing was pro-
vided for in the cafe, which had been speci-
ally cleared and had its floor waxed. The
party spread out over the lounges and corri-
dors and even seeped into the flats of the
Hennessys and Blochs. The last of it drifted
home at about three in the morning. Mrs.
Hunt affected the new chalk-white face with
black beauty patches and was draped in a
frock like a window curtain. Diana Wilson
jazzed in a rose velvet bag tied below the
knees with gold cord. Knight Hennessy was
a jovial prancer. He always manages to
know fehe latest steps. Host Kirby looked ex-
hausted but happy.
John Amadio farewelled us on Friday
night at the Town Hall. The young flautist
drew a house that filled even the organ
seats, and there was a long programme of
helpers. Dorothy Murdoch sang, and
Eileen Castles and tenor Lois. Tenor Nor-
man Bradshaw, who has a lovely drawing-
room voice, was rather lost in the Town
Hall; and Millie Tree Chapman, a very
plump lady in an oranges-and-lemons frock,
pitted her tremolo against Amadio’s mellow
magic flute, and the flute won. Dr. Price
thundered on the organ, and Cecil Parkes
(who is outgrowing his infant-prodigy pose)
sawed at his violin. The large, very sub-
urban audience got a lot for its money and
was correspondingly enthusiastic.
An interesting entertainment will brighten
the Guildhall on December 18. Henry Tait
is to introduce his cycle for the piano, and
among other items Vance Palmer will stage
for the lirst time a new one-acter entitled
“The Prisoner.” Vance Palmer, who is just
back from the Front, has another. play and
a couple of novels awaiting publicity.
The Shakspeare Society (which, by the
way, uses only one e in spelling its immor-
tal name) has its annual breaking-up this
week. The dramatic and musical entertain-
ment, plus distribution of prizes, happens at
the Masonic Hall on Friday night.
The Play Lovers’ Club is out to establish
a fund for publishing original Australian
stage-plays. The members intend to
give performances of at least two new things
during next year, and are opening neighborly
negotiations with the Melbourne Literary
Club and other such organisations for joint
work.
A simple statement of the origin of the
war, and how Australia was concerned in
it, is told to Australian kiddies in a book-
let which Councillor Charles Atkins has
presented to about two thousand State-
school children. The ex-khaki member of
Melbourne City Council represents Albert
Ward, and, being a man of ideas who makes
periodical appeals for re-election, he seems
to have bethought him that he ought to pat
the voters’ offspring on the head with this
war pamphlet. It was prepared after his
own prescription, and is a capital little thing
of its kind.
Determined to make hay while the sun
of art is shining, W. B. Mclnnes and Pen.
Boyd are offering a large area of assorted
canvas for sale in small lots on easy terms.
The private view is to happen at the Fine
Art Society’s Galleries to-day (Thursday).
Grass-widower Guido Cacialli is about, to
have his family in part restored to him,
Mrs. C., who has had a worthy career as a
mezzo-soprano in her own country, being
now on her way to Melbourne with the only
Cacialli daughter. The two Cacialli sons
are to complete the circle later on, when
they have finished their military service with
the Italian army.
For the first performance of “Theodore
and Co.” the Royal was one vast expanse
of evening toggery. Even the gallery was
spotted over with satin theatre coats. The
George Tallis pair, with a flapper daughter,
beamed approval from a box. The Charles
Taits sampled the rival show from the stalls.
Mrs. Leslie Stuart was in her accustomed
place, all satin draperies, bare shoulders
and smiles. Lesly Madden and the Fisken
sisters were amongst the social headlights.
Comedian Leonard’s golden-haired wife (once
Queenie Cadden, of Melbourne), looking not
a day older than when she quitted her native
city, was chiffoned in pink. In her box
was Grammar headmaster Franklin. Phil
Smith, after solemnly judging the new
comedian’s work from the front, hurried
round to offer congratulations. Jack Can-
not contributed his word of cheer by wire.
So did “Lightnin’ ” Bill O'Hara.
Maude Fane looked like a picture post-
card in china-blue pantalettes topped with
a three-pointed georgette skirt edged with
brown fur. A dinky little fur-edged toque
had a large pink rose dangling over one
ear. In the next scene she wore a glorified
bathing dress and gold-embroidered wrap.
Gladys Moncrieff showed off three dress
triumphs, beginning with a mauve georgette
and ending in white crystal draperies over
silver tissue. No. 2 costume was white with
a green sash.
Philip Wirth is leaving all the circus man-
agement to brother George for a spell, and
is going to have a holiday. The “holiday”
will start with a bit of carving in a hospital
theatre ; then follows a long rest from work.
Phil still looks the strong man; but his
youthful habit of carrying seven men and
three boys on his head and shoulders has told
on him now that he has reached middle-age.
There were eight in the Wirth family. One
brother died in South Africa and another in
Plong Kong. There was also a sister, Mar-
celaus, a lovely girl with golden hair down
to her ankles, who was the bareback rider
and high-wire artist. She is now Mrs. Mar-
tin, and is managing the business part of a
five-man act in New York which brings in
£lOO a week. Her daughter May is one of
the five men. She could ride a circus horse
before she could walk.
Horace Stevens is right at the top in ora-
torio work in England. He went away with
the dental section of the Army Medical
Corps, and has stayed on in London catch-
ing engagements. A friend writing from
England says it looks as if Melbourne has
lost Horace.


llliS
MM
m
m
-
■
■
sox.
■ • 3
j - s ‘ 1
11 »' §
IS
■ ■ •
§Ei.y
£;
‘
-rite ' • '"■> .•■ . m rT ■
* /
> " •
/ • " . 'V
': : ;
■ ■ f ■ ■ - ;*
:
v i
hit*; x ' ,
'
ii
BP§t
/Mi
H
„■
- •'■ V' - •«;< >'
1
m
r:
IMDkS
H ' ,?! h,*-, - y / IWF&.
g§ in
:
:
' '
i- • r
'■>:
§|||ijifj
SSllfilSi
9M n rgKl 1 ems&fr y#
'
£I * 4
<* »:’% : ■. , V A
ttSSS
& M
B|§§
Mil
s
Wciix>crri/>
Scotch
'lVaJevnJiKt”
" litorulpfl ’•""**
Copyright Watson’s No. 10 Whisky.
A NEW SERES OF HISTORY MAKERS.
THE above portrait of Admiral Sir D. Beatty is one of a new series of drawing's specially
executed for us by V, Jardine. Reproduced on the finest of art paper, and being entirely
free from advertising matter, they make, when framed, a charming acquisition to the home.
The complete set, consisting of Admiral Sir D. Beatty, Earl Haig',
General Sir W. Bird wood, General Sir W. Robertson,
General Foch, Vice-Admiral Sir F. C. D. sturdee, will be
sent to any address on receipt of six penny (Commonwealth) stamps. As the production
is limited, we advise you to write and secure a set immediately to
JAMES WATSON & CO. LTD., 26 King Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
*\
%/ 1
\ i
Aft"'""""*
m.
k*
«/
it
V
Ji
/\
j S
i- w....„>
/
i '
%
%
'5%%
1%
J


Under
Royal
Warrant
To H.M.
George V
CHAMPAGNE
.
CHampaGHC
Q «riesHeidsie*
Reims
(fit) „«,<*>*•
gg
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
fa
wm
m-
[^CKpbLISH
L'CATMtP
FbR FaTENT.OIACE
Melbourne
;;;;iiimiiiilllll
Bid
you?
iilHllilliiliiliiill lililii
i iu-j. i oimri, i mcixu 1 nc,m wnn
(V)end-a.-~Teaj-
Sample Outfit post free on
receipt of 1/4.
Sole Wholesale Distributors for New South
Wales and Queensland —
Bennett 8 Barkell Ltd.
Meagher Street, SYDNEY.
are sold with a guarantee
which says that if the
finger tips wear out, before
gloves have been washed or
have given reasonable wear
they will be replaced free
of charge.— A sk your draper
for Vanity Fair ' ilk Gloves
—the gloves of qusliiy.
V.F.2
Wa
€>
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
In an airy, well-lighted, pleasant room, on
each side of a violet cloth- or leather-covered
table, sit two rows of men, middle-aged, or
so close to it that scarcely a hair divides
them from it. They are the Board of Trade,
or part of it, and are deciding whether to
keep the Sydney woman-worker’s wings
clipped to the 305.-a-week wage, or let her
stretch them to an extra ten shillings. Miss
Gaskman, a sturdy little figure, shiningly
clean, sits beside Langdon, who puts the
question for the workers, and whispers a
point every now and again into his ear. Mrs.
Kate Dwyer and her sister, Miss Golding, keep
an eagle eye on the proceedings, and an at-
tractive young person with a dress as blue
as her eyes takes notes on behalf of some
union. Miss Hughes, secretary of the Wait-
resses’ Union, is in the “box” —as calmly
sure of herself as the Archbishop of Canter-
bury or Doctor Mannix. Ferguson is for
the employers—and a horrible job is his when
he has to try to prove that camisole-ribbons
and torchon are not essentials. Him she
answers with a lofty aloofness, and with a
cool selection of just the word or phrase,
shaded to convey her exact meaning, and
an accent that reahlly suggests Cambridge
thrown in for good measure. She is not
even ruffled when questioned about her sub-
scription to Truth. She has a reason
and gives it for buying the paper (which
“I-eh do not deny has-er leanings to Labor”),
and finally resumes her seat in the back-
ground with the bow at her throat and her
rather severe black hat not a fraction out
of gear.
Mona Daley, another evidence-giver, on the
side of the employers, said her piece in a
trig check skirt (scarcely the six-and-
elevenpenny variety, unless Mona has a pull
with the shopkeeper), an unobtrusive blouse,
a straw hat with a puggaree arrangement,
and white nubuck shoes that she didn’t buy
for 6s. llfd. She caused most stir when
she declared that two sixpenny tins of tooth-
powder a year met her requirements. And
she secretary of a hospital, too! Mona
Daley thinks white cotton gloves at 2s. lid.
per pair quite the thing for the working girl.
Then memory fled back to the Jellicoe Recep-
tion on the New Zealand and lighted on a
young woman—also a hospital secretary-
in cream cloth tailorings and a black hat
that was several feet in circumference; and
at the Crown-street Hospital Ball there
was the same vision in gloves that cost
something more than 2s. lid., and the well-
filled stocking that two-stepped from be-
neath a short black net frock was clearly
of the silk or almost-silk variety.
Anzac Memorial Day had its procession—
not the old pageant, with bands blaring
“Australia Will Be There” and “Boys of
the Dardanelles” all the way; but a long,
lona trail of motor-cars and lorries filled
with solemn-eyed kiddies, sporting dad’s
colors in sash and flag, the older amongst
that thousand war-orphans with eyes already
narrowed through helping mum calculate the
cost of living. There were others in the
procession, of course—returned Anzacs and
curvetting mounted troops—but it was from
the fatherless children the big appeal surged,
and the thought of these was behind the not-
too-liberal giving. There were stalls at
points of vantage, with Martin-place the
centre of attraction. Here workers drove
a roaring trade in fresh vegies, preserves and
icecream ; and the Third Battalion Comforts
Stall added heaped-up piles of cherry-ripe
“all the way from Goulburn” to its attrac-
tions. It had a “walking doll,” too —a doll
with clockwork innards that a clever Digger
put together. For Is. lucky little girls and
boys could walk hand-in-hand with her High-
ness, who, for the occasion, was in regula-
tion khaki. Concert parties at the street
corners, lucky packets on the stalls, chocolate
wheels and the penny-absorbing vacuum—
the same old circus of tricks, the same good-
natured public coming up to scratch with its
pennies.
The Assembly Room at the Education
Building heard the Finnish National Anthem
for the first time last week, when tall young
Consul Naukler, very much in earnest, very
much a Finn and proud of it, stood before
the big white flag with its blue cross, but-
tressed by our own starred emblem and the
Union Jack, and lectured on “Finland a
Nation.” He spoke of the Russian, the Ger-
man and the Bolshevik with equal disdain,
and was cheered when he claimed that Fin-
land’s whites were the only force so far that
had “liek-ed” the Bolshevik Reds. He 'told
of his country’s mighty forests, of its dairy-
ing. of its musicians and its poets; he told
with pride how its great architect came sec-
ond in the competitive designs for our own
Federal Capital, and ended the lecture with
the translation of a poem by the Finnish
National poet. Later Laurence Godfrey
Smith demonstrated his intimacy, not to
say familiarity, with Finnish composers; and
Mrs. Mavrogordato, whose husband teaches
at the Conservatorium, and who has lived
in Finland, sang a number of the cold coun-
try’s songs, and was rewarded with hothouse
blooms tied up in blue and white. Premier
Holman and many Ministers cheered.
Mrs. Naukler, by the way, is off to the
Bush to make a collection of butterflies,
beetles and insects to send to the Finnish
Universities.
The Bondi Aphrodite and the Venus of
the ’Loo having been duly picked by three
artists, an architect, two plumbers and one
sculptor all sitting in front while the
dazzling array of youthful charm pranced
before them, first in practice clothes (and
that’s a cross between a bathing-suit and a
gymmy rig-out), secondly in full evening
slip-off togs, the Tivoli Mclntosh is now
drawing six cheques for £lO per week; and
the possessors of the above-valued charms
are busy every morning in the dusk of the
Tivoli stage grape-vining around Claude
Fleming, rolling one luscious eye at him
while the other glows reassuring kindness
into the shrouded stalls below —and the
Tivoli had better instal a freezing plant
along the front rows, for even the case-
hardened Claude visibly wilts under the
warm rn vs from the blue and brown orbs.
There are tall girls, and a girl with beauti-
ful arms, one who binds her hair with a
green riband, one buster-cropped and one that
old Tarry-ropes of George-street would greet
with “Hello, Darlcie!” Two of the young
things—a contrast —clung lovingly together ;
and one who was “off’’ seemed to regard
beauty as a hard reputation to live up to,
no doubt on the old-fashioned adage that
handsome is as handsome does. So Peter,
who keeps the stage-door, still turns a coldly-
appraising eye on them all. And meanwhile
hums a ditty :
I’m a Bondi Aphrodite, I’m a Venus of the ’Loo,
I am Dian straight from Leichhardt, or a Helen
Ashfield grew;
I am Grecian, I am Roman, I am straight and slim
and tall.
After Milo, or Medici, or a dimpled Watteau small —
“What ho! What price?” all the boys say.
Why, ten quid on pay-out day.
May Moore’s camera
has at last found out
Sister Macdonald,
who went to Buck-
ingham to visit the
King, and he pinned
the Royal Red Cross
on her uniform for
work done in Egypt
and France. After
that, off she was
whisked to'say how-
do to Queen Alex-
andra in Marlborough
House, as is the cus-
tom with nurses who
receive the Royal
Red Cross. Sister
Macdonald is busy
nursing in her own
country once more.
A recent matrimonial adventure is wear-
ing many tongues to tatters. The bride, a
gilded orphan and well-known patriotic
worker; the man a returned Digger.
Ceremony happened at the Cathedral, with
a big reception to top off. After the social
part the bride and ’groom, with best man and
maid, repaired to the bride’s flat to collect
the luggage. Then came the climax. She
announced the marriage was to be merely
one in name; they would part then and
there. Which they did, in best movie style,
and the new Mrs. Blank, with best man
and maid, left for a neighboring State,
where they made holiday for a few weeks.
As much of the Dollar States as lives in
the best suburbs ate the Thanksgiving tur-
key at the Australia on Thursday, with the
Stars and Stripes lifting a proud head
among the decorations. New Consul Nor-
ton and his wife were the guests of the
occasion, and among' the toast-givers was
Frank Coffee, very much in his element.
Showman Hugh Ward also called for
glasses to be emptied; and both the Nortons
had something to say in reply. There was
a mile-long guest-list of well-groomed men
and expensively upholstered women.
The engagement of young Malcolm Mac-
lcellar to Enid Woolfe, of Perth, is
announced. The tall, good-looking son of
the well-known medical M.L.C., got his com-
mission in the Ist Life Guards in the sum-
mer of 1917. The Life Guards are, of course,
cavalrymen, and there was nothing doing in
that line on the Western Front, so Lieut.
Mackellar became a machine-gunner and had
all the fighting any man might want. Just
before their son’s return Dr. Charles Mac-
kellar and his dame left Point Piper, where
they had lived for years, and bought a house
at Wahroonga. Miss Woolfe is as well known
in Sydney as in her native city. is
tall, slim and dark and dances divinely. She
was staying with the Sam Horderns at Dar-
ling Point when the romance began.
The McQuade family are leaving Sydney.
They are only waiting for their Potts Point
home and a few other trifles to be disposed
of before they go into permanent exile in
London. Tim Keigwin and his wife (who
used to be Gwen Hughes) will go with them.
Here is May Moore’s picture of Beulah
Bolton, secretary of the Bush Book Club
and to the people outback who send her all
the letters asking for
works of romance
and travel she’s
the Club itself. Not
very much poetry is
called for, but theo-
logical works are
pretty often de-
manded, as a rule
by Scotsmen. The
women mostly want
novels, something to
“help me forget the
dreadful drought,”
one woman wrote
last week. Another
does a lot of travel-
ling in her out-west
zinc-roofed, zin o-
walled home. With
the heart of an ex-
plorer and wild longings and desires to slip
into the starlit waters of some foreign,
port, the little woman admits that she has
never been on a boat in her life. This one
wants magazines, another wants history;
so Secretary Beulah opens the letters and
casts a searching eye over the not-too-well-
filled bookshelves; her musings as to what
she can put in each parcel sharpened, if it
is a Thursday morning, by the sound of the
knife-grinder whetting the edges of the Paris
House steel.
Denis Allen, son and heir of the Arthur
Allens, of Merioola, went to England in 1916
a boy of 20; he came back on Saturday a
Flying Corps Captain and a D.S.C. His
career at the Front, though short, was bril-
liant. In 1917 he was pulled back to Eng-
land to test aeroplanes, which, as a matter
of fact, is pretty well as perilous as fighting
in an aeroplane which has already been
tested. His sister married his friend Ken
Austin while he was away.
Marie Beerbohm —who was Ernest Watt’s
second wife—has been very ill in London.
She was crossing a street with a man-
friend when a motor-car whirled round a
corner and knocked them both down. The
friend was killed on the spot and she was
badly injured.
So Goodie Reeve is to be married, and
not to Bruce Bairnsfather, after all, but to
a dinkum Aussie. She marries a son of Dr.
MacGillicuddy, of Melbourne, before the
world is a year older.
Winifred, second daughter of the William
Arnotts, of Clairvaux, Rose Bay, is to marry
Leslie Cecil Johnstone, only son of the W. R
Johnstones of Nelia Ponds station (Q.).
Prospective ’groom’s mother, Mrs. W.
Roderick Johnstone, most consistent of warn
workers, holds one remarkable record: she
and her seven-seater never once failed to
meet transport or train arriving at Sydney
with returning Diggers. Her Sydney home
is at Stanmore.
at p^re who marr ie<l attractive little
Nell Godfrey to Charlie Church the other
Saturday had to be up with the dawn to
earn his fee, for Nell chose the hour of
eight for the ceremony that crowned a
romance which began when she was a flap-
perette. Both belong to Newcastle, where
Pie ’groom sells law-advice. The new Mrs.
Church at one time threatened serious rivalry
to the Newman and Leycock miniatures.
Brisbane’s diversions:—
Celia Cooper, daughter of our Chief Justice, has
been extracting good opinions from the Lon-
don critics. She has a mezzo-soprano which Louis
Delune, the de Reszke-method man, has trained. At
a recital in the New Bond-street Aeolian Hall some
weeks ago she scored a success.
Brisbane is already looking cloudward for young
Lieut. Rendle, airman, son of the late Dr. Rendle.
A sister was a member of the recruiting staff here,
and did such good work that the Defence Depart-
ment gave her rank as an hon. lieut.
Col. A. Graham Butler, D. 5.0., who is coming
home in the Orvieto, has been writing a war-book.
He was with the Ninth.
The Austral Choir, under the baton of E. R. B.
Jordan, gave a benefit concert last week for young
Archie Day, our boy pianist, whom you are going
to hear about by and bye.
To-day (Thursday) Anzac-artist David
Barker is to be married to Doris Parrett,
at Mosman. There will’ be no curious
crowd round a church-door, as to the cere-
mony is to occur in the comfortable seclu-
sion of a drawing-room. The romance is
to be continued in a little home overlooking
Middle Harbor.
The women gave new University-senator
Dr. Constance D’Arcy a congratulatory beano
at Paris House, and all the tables wore the
dark blue and gold which put the cachet of
“the shop” on them. The toast-givers of
the evening were the president of the D’Arcy
Campaign Committee (Miss Mallarky) and
its secretary (Miss Hinder). In her reply
Constance admitted to tremors on going to
her first Senate' meeting; but, instead of un-
bending Solemnity, she says she found a
friendly set of jollybold boys.
Dr. Truby King will be welcomed by the
Royal Welfare Society on his way back to
Maoriland, where in the old days his special
charge was Seacliff, the big mental hospital
of the two islands. Having no infants of
his own he naturally specialised in the care
of babies, and it was he who solved the
mystery of humanised milk, which has saved
thousands of the Dominion’s babies.
The Walter Gibsons got away by the
Osterley for the remainder of the honey-
moon, which America and Europe will see.
Bride’s sister Ivy took the deep water with
them. She’s off to Rotterdam to visit old-
friend Mrs. Ruys, who was Helen Bridge.
The Fruit and Vegetable Fund having
been finally finally wound up (with £22 4s.
to the good), Mr. and Mrs. R. M. Pontey
are off by the Sonoma to see what is left
of Europe.
Mrs. E. S. Simpson, wife of the Perth
scientist and herself a violinist ivho titil-
lated the musical spines of Europe, is visit-
ing her sister, Mrs. Swinson, who is living
on the heights of Turramurra. Other sister,
Bessie Griffiths, who plays the ’cello, is at
present in Cologne giving concerts to the
army-of-occupation.
Some of Dr. J. H. Abbott’s fine collection
of pictures and objets d’art were sold at
Lawson’s rooms last week, and showed that
the price of Ililder’s and Gruner’s work is
steadily rising, Ililder’s “Two Barrows”
realising £l4O. Good prices were realised
for all the Australian paintings offered. A
set of Art in Australia, Nos. 1-6, brought
nine and a half guineas, and the illustrated
catalogue of the Ililder memorial exhibition
of 1916, issued at 55., sold for five guineas.
Although the high cost of building neces-
sitated curtailment of the original plans for
the Girls’ Friendly Society’s Hostel, accom-
modation (in separate roomsi for 50 girls,
with a modernly fitted laundry and dark-
room, will be provided in the new build-
ing to be erected opposite the Uni. Archi-
tect Bui’cham Clamp has designed it with a
view of future extension. Anybody willing
to add to the £3459 in hand for building
purposes will find that Mrs. Armstrong and
Judge Docker (Mostyn, Elizabeth Bay;
have a book of receipt-forms.
Spite of the steady downpour on Saturday
quite a crowd of city folk make their way
to the fete at the Ryde Home for Incur-
ables. The stalls, in marquees on the
lawns, were stocked with the work of the
inmates, some of whom assisted in the sell-
ing. The Fuller lady said the Open
Sesame; and then the buying commenced.
Dr. Mary Booth, surgeon Maitland’s wife,
with sister Miss Cook, and Mrs. Wilkinson
were among those who risked catarrh to
attend.
The Philharmonics got Cesar Franck’s
Beatitudes” off their chest in fine style at
the Town Hall, under Joe Bradley’s baton
last week. There’s a prologue, and the
eight Beatitudes are let loose on a heavy
swell of orchestration. Philip Newbury not
only tenored divinely, but by a timely whis-
per saved the undoing of Rosa Alba, whose
white georgette shoulder-strap slipped its
mooring under the stress of the fifth Blessfed.
Contralto Marjorie Beeby, also in soft white-
ness, baritone Whitehead and basso Roy
Allen successfully competed with the heavy
orchestral barrage.
Colin Smith won the suit which was
brought against him last week by an Israel-
ite (“and proud of it”) bearing the un-
Hebraic name of Scott. llow the young man
comes to be so tangled up financially is a
marvel to his friends. He runs no vast
establishments, doesn’t entertain, and had
£lO,OOO a year not so long ago. Besides
which he is related to wealth in several
directions. A brother-in-law is Russell
Clarke, who took over Rupertswood from
S’Rupert before the war. Russell Clarke
married one Mackenzie girl and Colin Smith
the other. Their father, Colonel Mackenzie,
was at Victoria Barracks (Sydney) for
years.
The sonsie Scotch lassies of N. S. Wales
can up wi’ their sleeves and into the flour-
bin, for there are prizes to be had by a light
hand at the scone and the wee bit oatmeal-
cake, to say nothing of the bull’s eye and
the peppermint lozenge; and weaving and
knitting and needlework—there’s to be a
prize for each of these, too, at the Highland
Gathering on New Year’s Day.


?
'A
JT>
A
-jd&t
r* (s v*
f? I
®9
S
\
JC7
<C£
M
Power
The power within the WILLYS-KNIGHT Car is the sleeve-valve
engine. Instead of having clashing poppet valves, it has sliding
sleeve valves which glide up and down between the cylinder wall
and the piston, one working within the other. Thus the intake and
exhaust gases are regulated with absolute precision.
Because of the complete combustion and thorough exhaust, very
little carbon forms in a WILLYS-KNIGHT engine—and that little is
beneficial. WILLYS-KNIGHT engines improve with use. You will
find the WILLYS-KNIGHT a powerful, satisfactory motor-car.
A USTR ALI AN DI STB IB UTOR S
GARRATTS LTD., Sydney.
IvELLOW-FALKINER FTY. LTD., Melbourne.
AUTO-CARS LTD., Adelaide.
EAGER & SON, Brisbane.
ANDERSON & ADAMS LTD., Perth.
H. G. HE A THORNE & CO. Ltd., Hobart.
A. HATRICK & CO., Wanganui, N.Z.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION, Christchurch, N.Z.
THE JOHN N. WILLYS EXPORT CORPORATION
165 Broadway, NEW YORK, U. S. A.


THIS mark on
a soft or
starched Collar
is a dependable
indication of
satisfaction.
Pelaco Collars
are made in
Australia.
All Reliable
Mercers.
THERE'S MONEY IN THE PEN ”
The above ,
is the title(
of our book-
let, which
tells about,
the possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. t
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
by lIARUY J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
difference between
learning to CORY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains, in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
penny stamps
to-day for a
copy of this
booklet—■
“THERE’S
MONEY
IN
THE
PEN.”
W\
Hfei>
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
185 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY.
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
INFLUENZA
Used In the Melbourne Hospitals
Brooke’s “Lemos”
The Purest Lemon Squash.
ESTABLISHED IN 1897.
Ponder’s
Advertising Agency,
W. J. C. COLE, Proprietor.
32-33 Royal Exchange,
Adelaide.
Publicity Campaigns Organised.
Enquiries Invited.
Business Notices.
THE “GIPPSLAND SPINNER,” designed, proved
and made in Australia, beats all the imported
lures. Irresistible for perch, trout, etc.
Makes angling a serene and lasting joy. Send
2/-, P.N. or stamps, to “SPINNER,” 561 Dowling
Street, Moore Park, Sydney, N.S.W.
There’s Nothing Like Leather.
And a Christmas Gift in Leather Shows Good Taste.
Cftise
KOO-KOO-KOO- K’BURRA
WHIPS
ANY STOCKMAN WILL APPRECIATE A K’RCRRA STOCKWHIP.
Plaited Belly and Kangaroo Right Through.
A TIP-TOP GUT. 50/- POST FREE.
FOR KITTLE CHILDREN.
No. 47 Treeless Felt Riding:
Pad, with Safety Clogs,
£3/2/6.
No. 79 Leather Pilch, with
Stirrups, £3/12/6. If with
Safety Clogs, £4/2/6.
FOR GIRLS ABOUT 15
YEARS.
No. 31D, with Low Pads,
or No. 86D, with High Pads,
are suitable for Girls.
Either Saddle, £6/12/6, or
£6/16/- with Hog Seat.
WRITE AT ONCE FOR
OUR CATALOGUE AND
SEE OUR BIG LIST OF
SADDLES FOR LADIES
AND GENTS.
i
THE GIFT FOR THE
SMALL BOY OR PIKE CP
TO 11 YEARS.
No. 83, the Saddle illustrated, is one of
our Higli-class Boy or Girl Saddles. Of
first-class workmanship right through.
With Girth Leathers and Stirrups,
£9/5/6.
No. 82, Boy’s Park Saddle, at £l/17/6;
No. 69, Boy’s Miniature Stock Saddle, at
£7/2/6; and No. 26, Boy’s Saddle, with
Low Pads, or No. 27, with High Pads,
at £5, are all presents that will please.
■SEND HEIGHT AND WEIGHT, OR AGE OF
CHILDREN, SO WE CAN CHOOSE SIZE.
SADDLES SENT FREIGHT FREE FOR CASH WITH
ORDER TO ANY PORT OR RAILWAY STATION
IN NEW SOUTH WALES.
Ringhead Pony Bridles, 17/3, posted.
Double-reined Pony Bridles, 25/9 posted.
Breastplates, 13/3 and 14/6, posted.
Saddle Pouches, 12/9, 14/3, 15/9, posted.
Saddlery, Polo & Leather Goods Specialists.
Ladies’ Double-reined Bridles., 28/3 and 30/9,
posted.
Gent.’s Station Bridles, 19/3 and 21/9,
posted.
Saddle Cloths: Boys’, 8/-; Gent.’s, 10/6.
Ladies’ Saddle Cloths, 22/- and 13/6, posted.
WALTHER & STEVENSON LTD., 393 George Street, Sydney.
I
a- «
s- m>
PORTLAND
VICTORIA.
FOR PRIVATE SALE, “MARETIMO,”
CHARMING SEASIDE HOME.
Ideal Position, Magnificent Ocean View, Handsome Substantial Stone Mansion,
Twenty Rooms, Wide Verandahs, Conservatory, &c. FIFTY-ONE ACRES
LAND (Wire-netted).
Well laid-out grounds, tennis court, orchard, extensive outbuildings, stables,
garage, five-roomed gardener’s cottage, bathing-box, telephone, &c.
A GREAT OPPORTUNITY to secure a gentleman’s Seaside Residence, Fully
Furnished ; Owner Giving Up Housekeeping. Particulars and photo-views of the
Property supplied upon application to
T. H. LAIDLAW & CO., Hamilton and Melbourne;
and J. L. WYATT, Portland;
From whom also permits for inspection can be obtained.
GBD
Look for this brand on your new pipe—it
is your guarantee of quality.
The GBD needs no breaking in—the French
briarwood used in its manufacture is so
thoroughly seasoned it ensures a cool, sweet
smoke right from the start.
m
mmm
the perfect pipe.
MANY POPULAR SHAPES
ON SALE EVERYWHERE.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Gelt: Will you swear to the Lusitania
part of the yarn? It’s important, if true. ... Douglas
B.: “Bubbles” idea doesn’t seem to fit very well.
....Jack A. AV.: “A Sentimental Quadruped” chased
off the premises. .. .J.Il.S.: Neither has a hope....
Maud R. L.: Better send it to her direct Larry
O’Flint: “Danny’s Knot’s” too tangled. .. .E.F.O’S.:
You can’t guarantee it, so it goes overboard....
Kenneth S.: Don’t look on parodies with a friendly
eye. . . .Lizard : No ; but the idea’s there... .Basil B.:
(1) You surely don’t want an acknowledgment of
receipt for payment of a par, do you? (2) If the
other pars don’t appear you can entertain the darkest,
suspicions concerning them.... Henry G. E.: You
might sell it somewhere else.... II.C.S.: Good
notion; can’t you improve the handling?....
AA’.M.H.: Better give it up.... Herbert E.: There is
no curse in all the world like the curse of the sub-
editor on meeting a page of promising stuff with
the typed lines so jambed together that he can’t
poke a nib in between them.... Lucy L.:
Some lines are good, but you don’t contrive
to let the reader know what it’s all about.
. ...Bourri: The “flood of inspiration gathers
your soul in radiant light.” Now, spill some of the
stuff over the verse C.C.M.: “The Keener Vision”
is stiff, dull and a bit pompous... .Hilary P.: It’s
not wildly humorous.... G.B. (Melb.) : “Yesterday”
won’t do... .L.S.C.G.: No use... .S.O.B.: Two must
go back; one held for inquest... .J.S.S.: Nearly, but
not quite. .. ,AA r .AV. (Parkes) : None of them get
close. .. .AA'.O. (Bay of Islands): They haven’t the
quality. .. '.II.C. (Adelaide) : Very poor. . . .Carl:
Shocking stuff... . AValad : Not up. . . .R.E.M.: Correct
verse, without anything in it to interest anybody....
A. : Doesn’t seem to get anywhere. .. .Ilorrox: A
bit commonplace. .. .Litmus: Doesn’t say anything
new. .. .AA r .S. (Annandale) : Too schoolteacherly. . . .
N.M. (Sturt): Sorry, but verse is not nearly good
enough. .. .G.Y.X.: Nothing there. .. .Mique: Averse
flounders. Yarn takes too long to tell... .E.S M.:
No use.... Alan B.: “Carling” doesn’t seem worth
while. .. .Cassius: Pretty thin tale that... .G.L.T.:
Don’t like “The Parson.”.... Francis J.: All that
preface is wasted on a yarn that might have made a
good paragraph. .. .K.S.: “Collectors” won’t do;
“Civilisation” has only the interest of a translation.
. ...R.Iv.D.: Not enough marrow in “Proposal”....
Enid I.: Poor little thing. .. .Nodrog: Only says the
old things. AVhat’s the use of setting a noble dying
to that wobble-and-hop tune, anyhow?. .. .M.C.R.:
“Dawn” “Morn” —what sort of an ear have you?. . . .
J.K.B.: Sounds like swearing, but perhaps we deserve
it: —
Pulse of Australian thought;
Fact-matter ; head ; not heart :
Praise only where praise ought;
Spurning-—with bitter smart—
Mediocre frivol;
Keen-eared for metal-ring ;
Investors’ muniment;
The poet’s meeting-place;
The theatre of wit;
The exploiter’s disgrace ;
All you want to know —-IT.
....Itoy C.: Have it your own way. AVe have no
idea what it’s all about. .. .L.G.M.: Held for inquest.
....Alan R.: Bad verse about nothing... .E.M E.:
Good enough verse, but it doesn’t say enough....
L.M.R.: Rather crude little attempt, but a hint of
promise in it. .. .Boarding-house Anzac: Doesn’t get
over the top... .A.McA.: Article no use to us... .Dick
B. : Yarn too crude. Imagination won’t run to a “com-
mercial” in delirium tremens getting out to show his
samples before breakfast... .Frank N. AV.: Don’t
take to Edwin.... Porphyro: No use at all....Sem-
pronia S.: It doesn’t quite make good. .. .N.L.S.: A
3^good drink about 1863... .Moira: Yes, the basket
scored. .. .P.I.O’L.: “Some Things” is good in idea,
but too rough in workmanship—for instance, “well”
rhymed with “lovable.”... .C.L.G.: AVell enough
done, but a horrible thing that could serve no good
purpose... .M.B.P.: “Forgetmenots” can’t blossom
here....M.M. (St. James): Don’t care for the two
women or the “Christmas Eve” sonnet. .. .L.C.R.:
It shook half our teeth out... .L.S.M. (Napier):
Doesn’t strike us....Madge: A little thing like that
wantw. thought and care... .C.C.B.: lame....
A. A.A.: Some people imagine that by dropping every
article before a noun they are getting poetry ; verse
isn’t a telegram... .Jewel: “Lou” Grant
first spruiked in the Domain. You say he had some
weeks’ practice first in Market-street. Don’t quarrel
here over what doesn’t matter, anyhow.... Billabong:
Yes, but that was a fair explanation—that they
weren’t on the market yet. . . .Recip. Cyn.: AA’hy don’t
you make your bushmen talk naturally ?.... Practical
I.: Sorry space isn’t available. .. .R.A.C.: You would
be quite right if the censorship under the Labor Gov-
ernment had been a bit less monstrous than it was
under the Hughes Government. As a matter of
fact, there was less freedom, so far as this paper
was concerned, under Labor than under Hughes.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Bully B.: Too old a trick... .AV.T.S.: You can’t
drirw well and the idea is as old as Parliament. ...
R.H.L.: Don’t like the girl with the flat tree grow-
ing out of her back.... G.M.: The fat man expresses
nothing. He is just a blob of grease... . AVoodicus:
You haven’t improved... .J.F.N.: Suggestion gone
in the knees... .P.J.C.: That saluting idea has been
worked out in various ways. Drawings crude....
Yvonne: A copy and not a very good one... .G.E.B.:
Very young art.... A.A.B.: Can’t find a corner for
Cohen. .. .R.H.L.: Old as sin... .D.L.AV.: Take away
the load... .S.G.: All gone down the shoot....
J.J.F.: All your own, of course ?... .A.G.: There are
points about the girl, but you’re still a bit uncer-
tain. Try again... .Radio: Not a picture in it....
Jas. N.: Solemn thing. ... E.F.: Away with Gari-
baldi, the organ-grinder !. .. . S.T.: Jolly as a moan
from a dentist’s surgery.
The Bulletin’s old friend Inclement
Wragge begs it to put him right with Aus-
tralia :
A report has been going round Australian papers
in the following terms: “During the recent dry
season some graziers in Riverina subscribed £5O,
sent it to Mr. Wragge last June (1919), asked
him for a special three months’ forecast. The
meteorologist thanked the donor for the cheque,
promptly paid it to a hospital, and sent along the
forecast. His prediction was no rain of value in
July, but useful to good and copious falls in
August and September.” Now, I know nothing what-
ever about this. No such forecast was issued by
me, and if this money was subscribed it will be
interesting to know what has become of it.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabin es-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Looms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.—City 4246,
4247,
4810.
2,4, 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
via
the Allied Route,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING. DECEMBER 10,
SONOMA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Telephone: City 2282. 44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
THR
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman); WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ; Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP
K.C.M.G. ; Hon. A. J. TIIYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
NEW
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government ol Queensland, under
agreement extending to .Tune 30. 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up 'Capital 091,850 10 0
Reserve Fund 272,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stocks,o9l,oo9 4 o
All new business since 189 S specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
lion. G. \\. Gray, M.L.C. ; .lames Love. Esq.;
W. H. Hart, Esq. ; Joseph Hughes, Esq., 1.5.0.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
JIIOAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, .Melbourne, Sydney and
tli rough out Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £160,000
Directors : HERBERT R. LYSAGHT, Esq., Chairman •
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LL.D. ; FRANK N. YAR-
WOOD, Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon.
F. JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.; DUNCAN CARSON,
Esq.
General Manager : C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and Kin-
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Chief Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. 11. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedie Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 146 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout tiie rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preterence Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital . . . . . . ooo.uou
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,490,224
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts all other usual Banking
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
SYDNEY OFFICE: 105 PITT STREET.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 85 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADENIIALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Shipping-, etc.
Can&dian-Austraiasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE largest, newest, fastest, and best-equipped steamers trading
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, December.
R.M.S. MAKURA, January.
The most beautiful Scenery in the World—the Canadian Rockies—is on the All-Red Route.
The Prairies, the Great Lakes, Chicago, Niagara Palls and New York can all be visited.
Through bookings to all Canadian, United States and European points.
Stop-overs on the Railways Arranged.
CALL OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS OF THIS ROUTE.
I)ASSENGERS CAN CHANGE AT HONOLULU INTO A DIRECT STEAMER FOR
SAN FRANCISCO.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco,via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on tbe journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona. Yellowstone Park, Niagara Palls, etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
A
mi
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Send for particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Pund
Reserve Liability
Directors:
£4,000,000
8,200,000
4,000,000
£11,200,000
The ITon. Sir Cnarles Iv. MaeKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Bucldand. Esq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Jiobert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
E. B. S. Falkiner. Esq., M.11.R.
General Manager: Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
Auditors: A.
G. Milson, Esq ; W. H. Palmer, Esq.
Head Office —Oeorge Street, Sydney. London Office —29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
341 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Commomvcaltb,
Jsank f Huetralia
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain),
also London (2), and A.I.F. Camps in England.
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and SAVINGS BANK AGENCIES at 2776 Post Offices
throughout Australia, Papua, New Britain, Solomon Islands,
and The Pacific.
JAMES KELL, DENISON MILLER,
Deputy Governor 1919 Governor
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1834.
Capital paid up £2,382,018 15 0
Reserve Fund - £2,120,000 0 0
Reserve Capital £2,500,000 0 0
£7,002,018 15 0
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Esq., Chairman,
lion. H. E. Kater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman,
lion. Henry Moses, M.L.C.
J. W. Maearthur Onslow, Esq.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes,
M.L.C.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Branch: 18 Birchin Lane, L.C.
London Bankers — The Bank of England; The London County Westminster and
Parr's Bank. Limited; Barclays Bank. Limited.
and agents and correspondents throughout the world.
Slumping.
SYDNEY INTER-STATE SUB-COMMITTEE
INTER-STATE PASSENGER SAILINGS
(Circumstances Permitting).
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE.
Huddart Parker Lis?
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND. —Regular sail-
ings between Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand
ports and vice versa; particulars to be obtained on
application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA.—From Sydney to
Hobart and vice versa every three weeks. Between
Melbourne and Launceston three- sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; George Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE FINE TWIN-SCREW STEAMER
“LEVUKA,” 6500 tons,
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
i The “Levuka” is fitted with wireless and with
every modern convenience for the comfort of passen-
gers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 26
days, and from Sydney 18 days. Passengers desiring
a more extended tour can travel by S.S. “Amra,”
which connects at Suva.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street,
Melbourne, or Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY. COFF'S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads—steamer to Murwilluinbali,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND Tlf'lCETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 13s. 6d. ; second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 7s. 6d.
For particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST.. SYDNEY.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
Favorite Mail Route to Japan, with connections
at Japan to
EUROPE AND AMERICA.
Tours can be arranged to China, Japan, Korea,
by this Line.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN.
Via Brisbane, Townsville, Thursday
island, Zamboanga, Manila, Hongkong',
Nagasaki, Kobe and Yokohama.
SPECIAL NOTICE. —All Passengers proceeding to
JAPAN must have their Passports vised by the Con-
sul-General for Japan in accordance with the regula-
tions of the Japanese Government
Full particulars of Sailing Dates, Passage Money,
Freights, etc., apply
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LTD.,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable Address
“Iroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Managing Agents for:
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co. Limited.
Eitzroy Estates Limited.
Blackheatli Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS FOR:
Biitish India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Sydney).
P. & 0. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messageries Maritimes Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane.
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.—at Queens-
land Ports).
Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports).
Iluddart Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown '
Head Office: Mary Street, Brisbane.


Edison Blue Amberol
Records for November
The November list opens with good news for lovers of
Grand Opera, and of “Madam Butterfly” in particular.
“Amore o Grillo,” one of the finest duets in the whole
score, comes to you on a Blue Amberol. The Rubinstein
(Spalding) ever popular “Melody in F” is listed, also
the “Sunshine Song” (Solveig’s Lied) of Grieg.
Lighter numbers include the “Kiss Me Again” Waltz, by
the Waikiki Hawaiian Orchestra, “Daughter of Rosie
O’Grady,” sung by Ada Jones, “When You Feel a Little
Longing in Your Heart” (Gladys Rice and Vernon Dal-
hart), “Chimes of Normandy” (Helen Clark), “Last
Long Mile —Toot, Toot!” (Billy Murray and Chorus).
But we submit the whole list, of course, so that you may
make your selection.
Blue Amberol Concert Records.
28278—Amore o Grillo— Madam Butterfly.
(Puccini). Tenor and Baritone, in
Italian, orch. acc.
Guido Ciccolini and Thomas Chalmers
28284 —Sunshine Song— : Solveig’s Lied. (Grieg).
Soprano, orch. ace. Julia Heinrich
28285 —Melody in F (Rubinstin-Spalding).
Violin, Pianoforte by Andre Benoist.
Albert Spalding
Blue Amberol Regular Records.
3287 —When the Bonnie, Bonnie Heather is
Blooming (I’ll Return Annie Laurie to
You). Glen Ellison
3488—Farmyard Medley—Descriptive Sketch,
unaccompanied. Premier Quartet
3492 —Nation’s Awakening March.
New York Military Band
3494- —Bing ! Bang ! Bing ’em on the Rhine.
Male Voices, orch. acc. Premier Quartet
3500—Daughter of Rosie O’Grady. Orch. acc.
Ada Jones
3510 —Rag-a- M i nor—O ne- step.
Jazzarimba Orchestra
3512 — Volunteers March.
New York Military Band
3513 — Last Long Mile —Toot-toot. Orch. acc.
Billy Murray and Chorus
3517 — Lorraine (My Beautiful Alsace-Lorraine).
Tenor, orch. acc.
Vernon Dalhart and Chorus
3518 — Three Piccaninnies. Orch. acc.
Collins and Harlan
3521 — Connaught Man —Medley of Jigs.
Accordeon, piano acc. by Joe Linder.
John J. Kimmel
3522 — He Lifted Me. Mixed Voices, orch acc.
Metropolitan Quartet
3524 —Three Wonderful Letters from Home.
Tenor, orch. acc. George Wilton Ballard
3526 Kiss Me Again Waltz.
Waikiki Hawaiian Orchestra (with
Louise and Ferera).
3527 AVhen You Feel a Little Longing in
Your Heart—The Love Mill. Soprano
and Tenor, orch. acc.
Gladys Rice and Vernon Dalhart
3528 — -Just Like Washington Crossed the Dela-
ware, General Pershing Will Cross the
Rhine. Baritone, orch. acc.
Arthur Fields and Chorus
3529 — Chimes of Normandy. Contralto, orch.
acc. Helen Clark
3530 — -Creatore’s Band March.
Creatore and his Band
3543—Put Me in My Little Bed. Soprano,
orch. acc. Gladys Rice and Chorus
3545 — Bye and Bye.' Conversational Duet,
orch. acc. Ada Jones and Billy Murray
3546 — Colored Recruits. Vaudeville Sketch
with Banjo.
Billy Golden and Billy Heins
3547 — (a) Ben Bolt; (b) In the Gloaming.
Cornet. . Bohumir Kryl
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD. (Wholesale only), 3G4-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
On Land and Sea and in the Air
—under all conditions, and in all weathers, the Liberty (Bosch)
Magneto furnishes a never-failing stream of power—giving the last
ounce of vigor and snap—economising petrol and ensuring supreme
ignition service.
For the absolute in efficiency and dependability, your car,
tractor, boat or aeroplane should be Liberty-equipped.
The LIBERTY MAGNETO
The Original Bosch.
DISTRIBUTORS:
VICTORIA —Welch, Perrin & Co., Queen’s Bridge St., S. Melbourne.
N.S.W. —George Wills & Co., Ltd., York St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND —Elphinstone’s Agencies, Queen St., Brisbane.
S.A. —McGregor, Ltd., King William St., Adelaide.
W.A. —W. E. Grigo & Co., King St., Perth.
NEW ZEALAND (except Auckland Province) —The Dominion Motors,
Ltd., Courtenay Place, Wellington.
Auckland Province: Trevithick, Ltd., Auckland.
C/k
that are reliable and accurate.
We carry the finest range in Australia
a
“A marvel at the price
81. Steven’s Little Scout Single-
shot Rifle, 22 calibre, ISin.. round steel
barrel; open roar and knife-edged front sights.
Weight, about 2Mb
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/3; other States, 2/2.)
22/6
“Simple and extra strong in construction .”
810. Winchester Single-shot Rifle, 1904 Model, for 22
short or long rim fire cartridges, 21in. heavy round steel barrel,
plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight; length of rifle
over all. 37iin.; bead front sight, with patent alloyed tip,
which will not tarnish; weight, about 41b
(Postage—N.S.W., 2/-; other States, 3/8.)
47/0
WE REPAIR ALL KINDS of
Guns, Rifles, Revolvers,
First-class Workmanship* Lowest Charges.
£mm
"Si
“Suitable for small game and target shooting
85. Stevens’ Visible Loading Repeating
Rifle, 22 calibre; magazine hokls 15 short, 13
long or 11 long rifle cartridges, mixed or separate; 20in. round barrel;
length over all, 35in.; weight 4j|lb.; slide action, blade
front and screvvrear sights Freight paid.
05/-
Owing to market fluctuations prices here quoted are subject to change
without notice.
mm
“Shoots icith guaranteed accuracy.”
813. Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1900
Model 16-sliot, 20in. round barrel, plain trigger,
straight grip, ladder rear sights, slide action, handles 22
short, long, or long rifle cartridges; weight, aborUoilb^..
95/-
“EVER READY” Hnm
CIGARETTE MAKER
Simple and durable. Nothing to get out of order.
Full instructions with each one. PRICE Bd. POST FREE
wmm*
“A suitable weapon for the hoy."
82. Stevens’ Marksman Rifle, 22 calibre, K.F.,
round barrel. 20in., chambered for long rifle cart-
ridges, case-hardened frame, oiled walnut stock,
front and rear sights; weight. 41b
C Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
open
3 51-
One of the hardest-hitting 22 cal. rifles on the market.
J 339. Remington Automatic Hammerless
Rifle, Model IfiA, 22 calibre, take-down action, length of barrel 22
inches. Magazine holds 15 cartridges. Weight s}lb.
Freight paid,
£7/10/-
Marble’s Waterproof Match-boxes.
Absolutely Water= and Moisture=proof.
Made of Seamless Drawn Brass, Heavily Nickelled.
Indispensable to the Outdoorsman. Post free,
m
814. Winchester Repeating Rifles,
Model, 25/20-, 38-, 44-calibre, central fire, full
half magazine, 24in. ban-el; weight, about 71b.
With Round Carrel Frei S ht P aid >
With Octagon Barrel Freight paid,
816. Winchester Repeating Carbines, 1892 Model,
25/20- 32-, 38- or 44-calibres, central fire, full or half magazines,
20in. round barrel, weight about o£lb Freight pai ,
Illustrated Firearms and Sports List Post Free to any address.
1892
£5/15/-
£0
£5/10/-
1C
mmwLms greatest
SPORTS OUTFITTERS-
7UW TOB7ICCOTUSTS
City Sports Depot
99 King St, also at
Newcastle l Brisbane


DO YOUR MEALS FIT?
If not, follow Mr. Charles Villiers’s
advice and take a Dr. Sheldon’s
Digestive Tabule after eating.
I want to write and tell you how
good I think your Dr. Sheldon’s
Digestive Tabules are, for I am in
a position to say, having suffered
exceedingly from Indigestion, and
trying them I found them to be the
best Remedy ever for Indigestion.
Whenever I have a big dinner at
the hotel or elsewhere, I always
have a Digestive Tabule afterwards,
and therefore never suffer any ill-
effects from same. Why anyone
should go about troubled with in-
digestion when such a Remedy as
Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules can
be obtained is more than I can
understand. I can assure you I can
heartily recommend them, for I
know they are good.
Yours truly,
(Sgd.) CHARLES VILLIERS.
1 Rosebank Street,
Darlimrhurst, Sydney.
n
il
Mr. CHARLES
- VILLIERS
(from a photo by Monte Luke).
Make Your Stomach Strong and Healthy.
Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules digesl what you eat, and allow you to eat all the good,
wholesome food you want. If you are suffering from Indigestion, you will be surprised at
the speedy relief they will give you. If your case is of long standing, it will require a
reasonable time to effect a remedy, for Nature cannot replace worn-out tissues with new
ones by magic. But when, by tiie use of this preparation, the stomach is given absolute
rest, and abundant nourishment and reconstructive materials furnished, recovery is certain and
permanent. Price 1/6 and 2/6.
Sheldons
Price
' 'prSoHi
• > , ~ ** *
- i
.
§
; ’■
3
S
Il
u
DO you want power in a popular priced motor-car? The
Maxwell responds with abundance of power at the
driver s command.
Do you want speed? Some Maxwell owners have driven
3 0 miles in 1 0 hours.
Do you want comfort? You have real comfort in a Maxwell.
Do you want reliability and endurance? One Maxwell was
driven 22,022 miles without stopping the motor.
Do you want economy? Some Maxwell owners have
averaged as high as miles on an American gallon of petrol.
Do you want beauty? To-day’s Maxwell will delight you
by its appearance.
But your real surprise comes when you find how moderate
5s the price of the Maxwell of to-day.
MAXWELL MOTOR CO., Inc.,
OF DETROIT, MICH.
John D. Williams & Company,
Export Distributors.
2 Rector Street, New York.
Cable Address: “ Liandum —New York.”
More miles per gallon.
More miles on tyres.
Messrs. Clutterbuck Bros. Ltd.
26-38 City Road, Sydney.
When You Get That Kindly
Feeling.
(Written Under Great Domestic Difficulties.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
XMTHEN you get that kindly feeling,
V\/ after having one or tv *°>
T T All the faith m human nature
that you lost comes back to you ;
Then your editor seems human and join
nublisher the same,
And you think.the little woman not so very
(The lll aforesaid a little woman, who’s been
WithTSSplnl eyelids 1 briniming says she’s
“not to blame at all!’ )
When you get that kindly feeling (she’s still
“doing up” the room ; ' ,
Finds new inkstains on the oilcloth, bangs
the skirting with the broom)
When you get that kindly feeling (I repeat
Even party politicians find some favor in
(“Now!” she says, “I’m glad you’re finding
someone safer to abuse!
Go on sneering at our best friends poo
Tom Mutch and Billy Hughes. )
When you get that kindly feeling, after
having three or four, . . ,
With your trusty low companions (sues
gone out and banged the door), .
Then your heart aches for the married
geniuses you’re boozing with,
And you have a kindly feeling even for poor
Bummer Smith; , . ~
For you’ll think you were as he is m tne
days when all was blue -
(Or blue-black, or black —-no matter), and
he’ll rise again—like you.
Comes a clatter from the kitchen as of
saucer, plate and cup,
Danger-signals indicating most emphatic
washing up. „ . . ...
When you get that kindly feeling—but it s
vanished into air;
So I’ll sneak round to the wash-house for a
nip I planted there. ...
With her eyes no longer brimming and witn
finger small but grim, ,
She’s rehearsing to the dresser what she s
“going to say to him.”
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.
The Inevitable.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
(BARTER, waiting for the girl’s reply,
\ stood looking down into her eyes.
' Again that odd feeling possessed him
that at some other time he had seen their
counterpart looking out of another L| ce -
Where, in what other eyes, had he met that
strange, elusive expression which gave them
their character and made it appear to him
as if he had known their owner long ago /
They were grey, large and dark-lashed; but
even more than their beauty was the mystery
in them that fascinated him, that discon-
certed him also, making him feel unsure ot
himself, as though he had been vaguely intro-
duced to some scene and time which had to
do with him, but which he could not place.
It was strange, too, that he should be think-
ing thus—that his mind should be so de-
tached, while all the while that he waited
for the girl to speak his heart seemed to
hold its pulsation in suspense. Till he met
Jane Boyd he had not known the big place
in a man’s life which love claims. It seemed
to him, as he stood there watching her, and
hanging on her answer to his not-impetuous
avowal of regard, that the slight, sweet girl
in front of him had been moulded for his
delight, and that, losing her, he might as well
lose life itself. Then she spoke, her throat
and cheeks reddening, her eyes giving out a
new light.
“Yes, Dick, I love you dearly, and I will
be vour wife.”
He took her in his arms then, and kissed
her. He felt that a great good had befallen
him, and she, on her part, doubtless felt simi-
larly. Yet very quietly, somewhat staidly,
with something of the matter-of-fact tone in
which they might have talked a business topic
over —not that either of them lacked an ap-
preciation of the passionate appeal of the
moment, but because they thought the occa-
sion too big for heroics—they discussed
things to be : their marriage, where it would
take place, and when, and what they would
do afterwards.
“And now,” said Jane, earnest with the
gravity of her request, “you must come to
Condong, and meet my father. He will be
pleased to have you as his son, because” —
with a little laugh—“l am pleased to have
you as my husband. His one desire is to see
me happy, and I have told him so much about
you in my letters that already he knows you
and how good you are.”
“How good you are!” If he had said this
to himself wliat a mockery it would have
seemed! As it was, the words burnt and
hurt him, and a vision rising up out of the
past, suddenly confronted him —a lighted
room, an open desk, a man stepping for-
ward threateningly, and another man run-
ning like a frightened hare.
Gritting his teeth, as though defying
something that menaced him. Carter caught
the girl to him with crushing arms.
“Whatever happens, dear,” he said, I
will always love you.”
“And I you, Dick.”
He was silent a moment, and then:
“Whatever happens, Jane —but what can
happen?”
Then once more, familiar though un-
placeable, the strange look in her eyes dis-
concerted him even in the thick of his
happiness.
An hour afterwards, as Carter sat on
the upper deck of the last ferry-boat at
night, watching the white wake that it
made stretching out in the moonlight behind
it, like a broad road of sparkling salt, he
ruminated much on Jane Boyd, and the
thought of her made a sweet cud. But
at other times he thought, also, of some-
thing else that neither his visioning of the
girl nor the clean air of the night blowing
over the. wide, lit waters of the harbor
could wholly banish or make palatable.
That she loved him he did not doubt, but
would she still love him if she knew this,
that one night, 10 years before, he had
broken, burgled his way, into a man's house
and robbed him? Even though he were to
tell her that he had been driven by dis-
tress, by starvation almost? Would it
cancel the crime if he were to swear to
her that it had been his one slip, and that
he had endeavored to make all amends for
it, restoring the money he had stolen, and
leading a clean, straight, white life after-
wards?
Perhaps, if she knew all, she would for-
give him. Perhaps! But with a life’s
happiness in the balance he would take no
risk. He had suffered much already, and,
since there was so much to lose, he would
keep his secret and remain the man he was.
Better to be the man he was, and her hus-
band, than the man the moralist would have
him be, and go without her.
He drew a deep breath as though in dis-
missal of the subject, and looked across the
water to the shore, with its shining rocks
and dark inlets, and its still trees that
sloped upwards to the little, red-tiled villas
on the heights, sleeping in the moonlight.
But even as he stretched his arms, imagin-
ing that he was free of the past and its
shadow, he found himself thinking of that
night 10 years before.
Again he felt fierce, cold horror which had
fallen on him as he looked up from the desk
he had been rifling, to find himself face to
face with the man at the door. He had been
to the war since, had done good service there,
and risked death over and over again;
but never had such craven fear befallen him
as he felt then. It was more than physical
fear, it was soul-fear —the fear of a man
upon whom blazes the sudden realisation that
he has damned himself. His knees shook,
and he knew, as though he saw it in a mir-
ror, that his face had gone ashen white.
For one tense, distressing moment, during
which he visualised all the consequences of
his crime, he had stood there without stir
or sound, and then, as the man at the door
made a forward movement, he had turned,
throwing a chair in the other man’s path
to impede him, and had run from the place
as one runs in a nightmare, with feet that
will not move fast enough. It was only
when he had set several streets between him
and the scene of his crime that the panic
left his limbs, giving him time to breathe.
What a night it had been, and how the face
of the man at the door had burned itself into
his brain ! Since then it had spoiled many
a night’s sleep for him, menacing him in his
dreams. Even now the memory of those
eyes which had seemed to search him through,
mapping his every line, his every furrow,
his every feature on the brain behind them,
made him tremble like a shaken leaf.
On the morning after the robbery he had
not stirred out of his room till the sun was
well up and men were going about their busi-
ness. It had seemed to him that his crime
would lose much of its conspicuousness in
a world busy with many things. At the
corner of a street he had bought a news-
paper, but, remembering what it might con-
tain, did not read it. For many days after
he did not read the papers. Nor did he seek
out the company of people who would be
likely to refer to the subject he wished to
avoid. The great thing was to forget. In
looking over the stolen notes —there were 20
of them —he had come across an envelope
with a name on it. which he took to be the
name of the man he had robbed. Certainly
the address was different, but then it might
be his victim’s city address.
A few days afterwards, when he con-
sidered it safe to do so, he had left Mel-
bourne and gone to Sydney. Later, an aunt
dying had left him sole heir to her property
—money sufficient to set him on his feet
again and give him a new chance in life.
Thereupon, as his first act, he had searched
out in a directory information concerning
Prescott—the man whose name he had found
on the envelope. Prescott, he discovered,
was a stock and station agent, and to him
he had sent a typed letter, explaining that,
although he had robbed him, he was no thief
at heart, and that he had been driven to do
as he had done by grim necessity alone. This
letter, containing 20 pounds in bank notes,
he sent away unsigned.
Having done this, for a little while he had
gone about his affairs like a man from whose
shoulders a great burthen has slipped, leav-
ing him the carriage and courage of a free
man. But always, at the slightest invitation,
the memory of that night would return, mak-
ing him shudder at the man he had been.
And now. since he- had met Jane Boyd
and had asked her to be his wife, a new
apprehension darkened day and night for him.
What if at some time the man, who had
mapped out his every line and furrow and
feature, should happen suddenly upon him
and denounce him? How would she who
loved and trusted and thought him the soul
of honor take such a revelation? It would
surely kill her or. what was just as bad.
kill her love for him. Carter, for all his
happiness, ground his teeth and cursed.
In due time he set out for Condong. He
was not a talkative man. and did not reach
out for conversation, and thus it was that
the man who drove him out from the railway
to the homestead told him little of the Boyds,
father or daughter. Through the two hot
hours of his journey he sat in silence, smok-
ing a good deal and thinking, with little
interval between his thoughts of the girl.
His visioning of her was happy, but shadow-
ing that happiness came the memory of that
night ten years before. Once he dozed and
dreamed that he saw the face of the man he
had robbed thrust close to his—closer, in
fact, than he had ever seen it in dreams be-
fore, and he woke with a start and a gasp
that made the driver at his elbow turn on
his seat and wonder at him.
“What’s stung you. boss?”
“Nothing,” said Carter, confused and
shaken.
“Thought it might have been a March fly.”
commented the man; “they’re pretty bad
just now.”
Jane, dressed in white, shapely and slim,
met him at the homestead gate. She was
very cool and good to look on after the hot.
dry country he had come through. As they
(Continued on next pass.)


BACKACHE DAYS and NIGHTS
P° ou rea li se that Pains in the Back, Limbs or Joints, Weak Heart, Irritability, Languor,
Dizziness Urinary Troubles are symptoms of SERIOUS KIDNEY
WEAKNESS?
Kidney Disease comes on quietly and may take you unawares, for often its symptoms
are put down to other causes—a serious mistake in many cases. Early symptoms are
pain and tenderness in the back and groin, bladder irritation, stiff or aching limbs, scarcity or
excess of urine, sediment, night sweats—chilly, moist or swollen extremities, drowsiness, blurred
sight, dizziness and morbid depression.
For when diseased the kidneys fail to purify the blood, so that uric acid and other poison-
ous matter is collecting in the system, causing rheumatism, stone, dropsy, gravel, sciatica,
lumbago and other complications.
Doan s Backache Kidney Pills are a tonic for the kidneys, which they heal and strengthen,
enabling these all-important organs to rid the system, of poisonous deposits that are setting up
disease throughout the body. They promote a healthy flow in the urinary channels, which
relieves irritation, soothes the bladder and dissolves stone and gravel.
Keep the kidneys well and they will keep you well, but you must get the right medicine.
A WOMAN’S CASE.
Mrs. Isaac Swales, 97 Fitzroy Street,
Moore Park, Sydney, says:—“Twelve
months ago I used Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills for a severe attack of backache and
kidney trouble, which had defied other
remedies for a long time, and I am pleased
to publicly state that these grand pills cured
me. I used to suffer agony from backache
and other symptoms of kidney disorder, and
I was sometimes so ill that I could hardly
get about. The pain in my back was par-
ticularly severe when stooping. I was also
troubled with headaches, restless nights and
disordered secretions, but after taking a
course of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills I
felt in splendid health, and have remained
well ever since.”
Seven years later Mrs. Swales confirms her
previous statement: —“Eight years have
elapsed since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
cured me, and I have had no return of my
old complaint all that time.”
SYDNEY
PROOF
FOR
SYDNEY
PEOPLE.
A MAN’S CASE.
Mr. Henry Adams, Annerley, Campbell
Street, Waverley, Sydney, says:—“For a
long time I suffered from backache. I got
little rest at night and would toss and turn
for hours. I began using Doan's Backache
Kidney Pills and they gave me relief almost
at once, and a course of the remedy com-
pletely banished the pain. They have
proved a marvellous medicine, for it is
eighteen months since they cured me, and I
have never suffered with my back since. I
am glad to tell others what Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills have done for me.”
Eleven years later Mr. Adams confirms
the above, and says:—“l have had no re-
turn of backache since Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills cured me, nearly thirteen years
ago. I always keep a bottle in the house
and take a dose now and then, for I think
the kidneys need a tonic sometimes.”
J jEvery Picture
Tells a Story. '
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are
sold at 2/9 per bottle, at all Chemists
and Stores, or post free from Foster-
McClellan Co., 15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
Backache
Kidney
PILLS
shook hands the driver, knowing a thing or
two, turned his eyes away, but they did not
take advantage of his thoughtfulness.
Through the gate and along the garden-
path, paved with white quartz gravel, Carter
followed Jane to the house. The gloom of
the room into which she led him was grate-
ful after the glare of the late February sun
and the dust of the track. In the green
of a kurrajong-tree outside the window a
shepherd’s companion whistled, daintily flirt-
ing its fantail to arid fro the while, as though
it thought life a very fine affair indeed.
The girl said, looking up at the man: “I
am so happy now you are here.”,
He bent over her, holding her close to
him. “And I am happy, Jane,” he replied—
“happier than I deserve to be.”
“Sit here,” she said, drawing forward a
chair for him ; “and here”—placing a tan-
talus at his elbow —“is something that will
make you still happier.”
Carter lifted his glass, but even as he was
on the point of drinking he saw again in
her eyes that odd, familiar expression which
he had tried so often to place.
She left him then to get her father; and
as he waited for her return the song of the
shepherd’s companion in the kurrajong—that
bird which never seems to sleep, but sings
day and night, lending a charm to the waste
places and solitary hours of bush and plain- -
floated in to him through the open window.
In the bird’s merry note, rich, rippling,
curring, there was that which thrilled his
heart to a sweet unison with it, so that he
forgot the Past and its shadow, and was
conscious only of the Present and its delight-
fulness. Then he heard feet in the hall, and
the door opened, and in front of him, and
looking at him as he had looked at him on
that other occasion, stood the man he had
robbed!
A fear, as devastating and intense as that
which he had felt at their first encounter,
took possession of Carter. He stood up and
thrust back his chair, half-turning as though
to run from the place, but still held motion-
less by the eyes of the man at the door, lie
knew now where Jane had got that look
which at times made her eyes so familiar.
But above all other things he knew that the
Inevitable had got him in its grip at last.
It was Jane who spoke. “Dick, here is
my father!”
At her voice, and for her sake, a sudden
determination to be bold, at any rate to
brazen things out, and to take his undoing
like a man, drove the weakening fear from
him. Throwing back his head he stepped
forward, and halted at arm’s length from the
man he feared so much, steadily, coolly re-
garding him.
Then an amazing thing happened. The
man smiled, the smile lighting up his face,
and he thrust forward his hand for Carter
to take.
Carter, wondering much, grasped it.
Welcome,” said the man—“a thousand
welcomes, Mr. Carter.”
“I thank you,” murmured Carter, per-
plexed, unbelieving, but still determined to
brazen the situation out, come what might.
Still holding Carter’s hand in his, the man
said: “lou have made my daughter very
happy, Mr. Carter; and her happiness is •
mine. For even we who are blind can be
happy at times.”
“Blind!” gasped Carter. “Great God!
How strange!”
RODERIC QUINN.
The Debil Moon.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ALL aglimmer with pearly light lay the
little beche-de-mer lugger, hemmed
in by the darkness of grim Cape
Melville on the north and the granite hills
of Red Point to the south. From the boat’s
bows to the shore ran a broad path of silvery
light. And Chungoorgy knew that even the
debil moon had concentrated her light on the
boat to show him the evil that was happen-
ing there.
Close by, the camp-fire coals shone dully,
and around it in a sprawling circle, just as
the fiery rum had overcome them, lay the
bucks and gins and piccaninnies of the
tribe. Not the youngest gins. They were
out in the boat. A deep guttural snore drew
Chungoorgy’s fierce eyes to the dying fire.
It was Chulbil, king of the tribe, his grizzled
head pillowed on the roots of a ti-tree —
Chulbil who had sold his youngest daughter
to Yoko, the Jap, for rum and red cloth.
During the buying Chungoorgy had fiercely
reminded Chulbil that Mundaree had been
promised him, and this was the wedding
night. Chulbil had replied that before the
moon came again Yoko would have sailed
away. Then Mundaree would return —and
what mattered a few nights’ waiting?
Chungoorgy’s strong teeth gritted as he
looked again towards the boat. lie had
drunk none of the Jap’s rum. lie had sat
in his empty gunyah while the rest of the
tribe had drunk themselves to sleep, and he
had thought, and thought. Instinctively his
hand reached out towards his bundle of
spears, and he handled one perfectly-balanced
weapon lovingly. It was a war spear, two
feet of its point barbed with razor-sharp
bones of the stingaree. Let one of those
barbs break off in an enemy, and lucky was
tie who escaped the poison !
But he was thinking, thinking. Jap men
were small, but very strong. Besides, there
were two of them on this boat, as on nearlv
all the others. And even if he killed both
of them the news would be spread among the
other Japs of the fishing fleets by the boat’s
crew. For the crew did not belong to his
tribe. And Japs never forget.
Chungoorgy recalled the look on Yoko’s
face while he pleaded for Mundaree as Chul-
bil pushed her into the waiting dinghy. Just
like a snake Yoko was. The steely eyes saw
all. The ears heard all. The cold Iface
showed nothing. The hard mouth said no-
thing.
Abruptly Chungoorgy broke off one of the
brittle bone barbs of his spear. He handled it
awhile fingering the sharp point, thinking
hard. Picking up a hard, rough-edged filing
,stone, he commenced to carefully thin the
barb down. Half an hour’s work, and it
was only the thickness of a thin
splinter. Then he rose and walked noise-
lessly to a clear patch among the ti-trees,
where the moonlight shimmered on the white
bark. Here he could see to complete his
work well. Straight down on him stared the
great full moon. Hard, cold, merciless, like
the white man.
Turning swiftly, Chungoorgy looked out to-
wards the bay. The lugger was no longer
in the moon’s rays. Long black shadows
from Cape Melville’s cliffs were reaching out
around it. Soon the moon would sink to
sleep and the spirits of darkness would own
the earth. Chungoorgy’s eyes gleamed. The
debil moon was on his side.
The bone barb was now only the thickness
of a fine needle. But the point! No needle was
ever so sharp, no needle-point ever so taper-
ing. Lest he should snap it, he put aside
the file-stone and completed the wearing
down with a soft shell. But before the work
was done he saw that he must hurry. The
moon was dipping down, slowly, as if re-
luctant to go until she had given him all liei-
aid for his task.
Walking to the gunyah, he took his war-
spear. and crept west from the camp.
Startled swamp-wallabies hopped off in
alarm, making a great crackling among the
dry pandanus leaves. But Chungoorgy’s
footsteps were as silent as the evil birds that
he knew gazed at him as he passed under
the trtees. Spirits all of them. But he was
not afraid. Had not the greatest of all evil
spirits, the debil moon, smiled at him?
He stopped at a small sand-mound cleared
of all grass. There he shivered a moment,
glanced quickly round, looked once at the
fast disappearing moon, then commenced
hastily scraping away the sand with his
hands. Soon he had a hole deep enough.
Grasping his spear, he plunged it down
through the sand, and drew it back. A
dreadful smell poisoned the night air. Quickly
he covered in the hole, and holding the spear
well before him, ran back towards the camp.
He must reach it before the debil moon closed
her eyes in sleep, else surely Wooriwa’s spirit
would be on him. She had been buried in
the sand mound ten days before. Breathless,
he reached the camp-fire and listened. No
ghostly wail broke on his ears, not even the
screech of a night-bird spirit.
Suddenly all was dark. The moon had
sunk in sleep.
Chungoorgy blew on the live coals until
they glowed. In this light he carefully,
very carefully, smeared the point of his
needle-bone with the black ooze on the point
of his spear. Slowly he twisted the bone
in among his thick matted hair, point upper-
most. Then, walking to the beach, lie waded
out, and commenced swimming steadily, head
well above water. He made hardly a ripple,
let alone a sound.
A quarter-mile from shore his eyes could
make out a blot that was the lugger, still
some hundreds of yards away. He kept well
from the boat, meaning to circle back and
climb up by the stern. In the stern of the
lugger is always the little cabin where lie
the captain and the mate. The crew would
be well for’ard, asleep. They would have
had some rum, too, but not much.
Carefully, with head just above water.
Chungoorgv neared the stern. Plainly he
heard snores coming from the crew of boys
for’ard, and once the whimper of a gin.
But his searching eyes saw no living thing,
lie drew himself up by the railing at the
stern, and slowly pulled himself flat on the
deck —so slowly that the. drips of water
from his body did not make the tiniest
splash. Directly in front of him was the
open panelling of the little cabin, and he
thought again of the debil moon as he saw
that Yoko had left a hurricane-lamp dimly
burning. On his belly he Wormed his way
another foot along the deck, and peered down
into the cabin. At the Japanese mate, sleep-
ing on one bunk, he scarcely glanced. Put
at the sight of Yoko, with one brown arm
flung across Mundaree, he snarled, and his
spear arm rose instinctively. The spear was
not there, though, nor could he have used
it in the small space between the cabin root
and deck. Yoko was too old a hand to
leave that opening.
For a time Clningoorgy gazed at the
stairs of the companion-way that led dowu
into the cabin, lie had no desire to put his
foot on a false step and land sprawling into
the cabin, with Yoko and his mate on top
of him,. In the centre of the cabin roof was
a small timber support. Reaching in. he
could just get" a firm hold. Very carefully
he pulled himself into the cabin, drawing his
knees well up to his chin as he swung over
the companion-way. Slowly his feet dropped
to the cabin floor. He could just stand up-
right.
As he bent over Yoko all his wild passions
swept upon him. lie peered around the
cabin for a tomahawk, something with which
he could cut and slash. But the only weapon
was the peeping holster of Yoko’s revolver
under his pillow.
Then his hand went to his hair, and
brought out the bone needle. He became
calm again, and grinned_at the thought of
revenge more terrible than tomahawk or
knife.
A quArter-inch from Yokos’s thigh he held
the bone needle, point down; and then he
let it fall. It quivered in the bare flesh
before it dropped and rolled on to the blan-
ket. Picking the needle up, Cliungoorgy
held it to the luirricane-lamp. The delicate
point had been snapped off.
Replacing the needle in his hair he caught
hold of the overhead support, and slowly
lifted his feet up through the open com-
panion-way. Carefully, and with great
labor, he pushed his body backwards, until
finally he again lay flat on the open deck.
In the black darkness he slid over the stern,
and struck out silently for the invisible
shore.
Yoko woke in the agony of blood-poisoning.
He died without suspicion of what had hap-
pened to him.
GOUGER.


A
I
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear
Maximum life and highest effi-
cient:}'.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
S N ‘IS3M 0H03N03
visvivaxsnv jo 'O3
anvaa asnoH9NHS3M am
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Rare you n
UPTURE D
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW: it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chaffing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT arid SECURITY
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St*, Melbourne, Vic.
BRAIN WAVES
If you want to prosper in life—to think out
schemes which will bring success, you must
have a clear head and a brain free from dullness
and fatigue. Headache, Las-
situde or Indigestion must
not come to distract your
mind. Avoid Head-
aches, Dizziness, In-
digestion, Bilious-
ness and that “tired
feeling ” by taking
Carter’* Little
Liver Pill*, the
Great Liver Invig-
orator. Thousands
CARTER’S
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
have attained success by their timely help.
Just try one after meal*. Safe for children.
Small Pill—Small Oosa—Small Prioe,
GENUINE must ,
bear signature
0
This is a Food-Drink (Milk|
Wheat, and Malt) which should
find a place in every home. It
has incomparable qualities, and
is an ideal standby in the outly-
ing districts where shops are
distant. It keeps for years, is
made in a moment, no cooking,
and is always satisfactory.
No Shortage. Ample Supplies.
JABORINE
Hair Tonic.
For Fallings Hair.
This old-established, genuine prepara-
tion is absolutely the best ever intro-
duced for falling hair.
Falling hair is a prevalent trouble
to-day as a result of the recent
influenza epidemic. A few applica-
tions of “Jaborine” stops the falling,
and continued use strengthens and
makes the hair grow thick.
Price 3/6 the Bottle,
POST FREE.
Sole Proprietors:
CRAIG & AITKEIM,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
J S:-L-
-MOTOR LORRIES
SS JSM&K
S 3
=
&
-
u
Thousands Have Stood the Test of Time.
THOUSANDS of Lorries turned out by
the Denby factory without a single
complaint of an imperfect one —a
record that speaks for itself. The designers
of the Denby built to stand the test of ages.
Improvements have been made here and
there, but the basic idea stands out boldly,
a monument to its builders.
Load capacities: 1,2, 3\, 5 tons.
DENBY MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY.
Export Department, Singer Building, New York, U.S.A.
Cable Address: “Dentrux.”
BE PERSUADED
to try Beeeham's Pills! All who have had experience of this preparation
unhesitatingly endorse the view long ago expressed that “ Beeeham’s
Pills are Worth a Guinea a Box”. This is what people say who have
taken them who have proved their wonderful value for themselves.
Their opinion should go far to persuade you to try Beeeham’s Pills also.
They have cured others and will cure you. They have brought the
desired relief in multitudes of eases —is it not highly probable that they
will do the same for you ? Beecham’s Pills grew into fame years ago as
a digestive medici ie of the greatest value. They have maintained their
high reputation through the passing' years, and, at the present time, they
are relieving, and curing vast numbers of people who suffer from
dyspeptic troubles all over the world. If you happen to be one of those
who need a tonic, purifying and cleansing medicine be persuaded
TO TRY
BEEeHM’S PILLS.
Prepared only by TIIOMAS BEECHAMf, St Helens, England.
Sold in boxes, labelled price 10£d (36 pills), 1/1 £ (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
BMC
Auto-loading
RIFLE.
A SPLENDID RABBIT RIFLE.
2 Z
SHORT
SHORT
'-MODEL 24A, .22 Calibre, Solid Breech, Hammerless. Easily taken apart
and assembled, Chambered to fire the Ordinary Rim-fire .22 Cartridge.
MAGAZINE HOLDS 11 CARTRIDGES, all of which can be fired as
quickly as trigger can be pulled, without lowering Rifle from the shoulder.
Fitted with Safety Lock. Full directions attached to each rifle.
"ft eight, 4,11 b. PRICE £5/10/- net. Postage or Carriage extra.
Obtainable Retail from the following Sydney Firms:
MARCUS CLARK, LTD. J. P. KNIGHT.
COWLES & DUNN. F. LASSETTER & 00., LTD.
GRACE BROTHERS, LTD. NOCK k KIRBY, LTD.
ANTHONY HORDERN k SONS, LTD. MICK SIMMONS, LTD. •
Also from Country Storekeepers.
WHOLESALE ONLY from following Sydney Firms:
ALDERSON’S, LTD. J. P. KNIGHT.
JOHN BROOMFIELD, LTD. NOYES BROTHERS, LTD.
PAUL & GRAY, LTD.
Australian Representative for the Manufacturers:—
D. D. BRYANT, Box 686 G.P.0., Melbourne.
GENERAL CATALOGUE MAILED FREE ON. REQUEST.
Your First Shave
Begin shaving with a Colgate’s
" Handy Grip” of your own.
Your dad will tell you tjiis is
the right soap to make smooth,
creamy, soothing lather and
help you to a comfortable shave
without any after-smarting.
You will like the "Handy Grip”
as well as you have always liked
the Ribbon Dental Cream—and
will never wish to be without either.
! \
flUilP
n
COLOAT
TJue
o
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
6d. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 115 High Holborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
SOLDIERS’ DIARIES.
THE Mitchell Library is desirous of pur-
chasing for the State Archives original
diaries of Australian Soldiers taking part
in the Great War. Good prices will be
paid for good material. Address Mitchell
Library, Macquarie Street, Sydney.—
For the Trustees.
_ W. 11. IFOULD,
Principal Librarian and Secretary.
f
ht ’ Wire Stra
10/-
Post Free
IimMiTUMIEBI
( Patented)
N *
10/-
each
Post Free
With Full Particulars
and Illustrated Circular.
The simplicity, lightness and excellence of the
Dreadnought is fully maintained.
Titan Manufacturing Company,
Normanby Road, SOUTH MELBOURNE.


Efficient in Service.
That is the test of belting—the results it
• gives in actual service. Mangrovite Leather
or Rawhide Belting has gripping power that
eliminates waste and increases production.
Strong, durable and pliable, it is efficient and
economical. Prove it on your power plant.
Mangrovite Belting Ltd.
(Charles Ludowici, Managing Director),
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), Sydney.
W. Australia: Gibbs, Bright &Co., Fremantle
S’tl Australia: John Reid & Sons Ltd., Adelaide
Vlcta, ia and Tasmania: Wm. Crosby & Co.,
Melbourne.
INCREASE YOUR PROFITS.
Run your chaffcutter to its full capacity. Constant re-sharpening of
knives means loss of time and profits.
“An Eagle on a Globe” Chaffcutter Knives
hold a been cutting edge. The high-quality specially-tem-
pered steel used is the reason.
Made for Buncle, Richmond and Chandler, Bentall, and Cliff
and Bunting machines.
prompt attention address inquiries for prices to Desk
THE EAGLE & GLOBE STEEL CO. LTD..
Makers of Ultra Capital High-Speed Steel,
379-381 Kent St., SYDNEY.
264- Latrobe St., Melbourne.
46 Boulder Rd., Kalgoorlle.
Cliff St, Fremantle.
John Reid & Nephews,
Brisbane.
Charles Atkins & Co. Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Paul & Cray Ltd., Newcastle.
Y.-X
Xv
jffl |
i&‘
•/Vj
Dick’s Balata Belting
for True Economy.
Igi^
'5 OR
SESg
trade:
MARK
Sole Agrents: Registered
JAMES HAHDIE & COY. LTD.,
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
’Phone 8456 (6 Lines).
581-3 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
30 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Newcastle Agents—Paul & Cray Ltd.
Wft'.utN- WORCESTER ~
eCOMSiNAT'QNWRfNCHSEI
DEN
S|SOR I U.
Ell
s °CKETi
mg*.
m
No. 6.—COMBINATION WRENCH SET.
38/6 complete.
Will fit cap-screws from 5-I6in.- to lin.
U.S.S. nuts fin. ,to fin.
A.L.A.M. nuts 5-16 in. to Jin.
No. 4.—COMBINATION WRENCH SET.
30/- complete.
Similar to above.
Arranged for the Ford Car, but good for all ears.
Ihe most difficult jobs are much simplified if you have the proper tools
to do them with. This plain truth is amply verified in the dismantling
and re-assembling THE MODERN MOTOR-CAR for cleaning and over-
hauling. If you have the necessary spanners that will adapt them-
selves readily to every nut and get into every awkward corner, the
job can be pleasantly, satisfactorily and expeditiously done—if not
the physical agony and mental anguish experienced is out of all
proportion to the cost of the absent paraphernalia.
OUR MOTOR SPANNERS and TOOL OUTFITS
comprise a full line, and we can supply you with Complete Kits of the
World’s BEST Manufacture, comprising KING DICKS, WALDEN-
WORCESTER, BILLINGS & SPENCER, BAY STATE, at the LOWEST
POSSIBLE PRICES.
Here are particulars of a few sets:—
“THE TOURIST KIT”
-OF 20 PIECES., Comprising
4 Fixed Double-ended Spanners, I 9-inch
Adjustable Spanner, 3 Screw-drivers, 1
File, 1 Pair Pliers, 2 Punches, 2 Chisels,
1 Hammer, 1 Cotter-pin Extractor, in
Waterproof Case, 40/- complete.
“THE TAXI KIT/’
OF 12 PIECES, Similar to “The Tourist
Kit/’ in Waterproof Roll, 21/- complete.
“THE EITTEE ROADSTER KIT,”
OF 9 PIECES.
3 Double-ended Spapners, 1 Screw-driver,
1 Hammer, Pliers, Chisel, etc., 18/6 comp.
description of Motor Tools for the Workshop or Tool-box.
Correspondence invited—Prompt Replies.
ROBERT C. SWAN 8 CO. LTD.,
304 Pitt Street. Sydney,
The House for Motor Engineers’ Supplies.
-e*
m
VB^Mfe^BaaßßEa!E!!~^>
No. 1. —Bay State Autokit Combination will get
at, fit and turn either way, any nut or cap-screw
on any car; 31 heavy steel sockets as hard and
tough as they can be made are used.
78/- complete.
No. 2.—Same as above, but with 12 sockets
instead of 31.
55/- complete.
DALGETY’S PUMPING OUTFITS
GIVE BEST SERVICE.
PUMPS.—AII classes in stock for pumping from Wells, Bores, Rivers and Creeks for
House and Stock Supply, Irrigation, etc. Also attachments for converting windmills
to power drive.
ENGINES.—Our Engines are specially reliably, and are in great demand for driving
Pumps, Shearing Machines, Chaffcutters, Circular Saws, etc. We can supply either
“Star” or “Tangye Oil” or Benzine Engines. Also E.R.B. Farm Pump
Engines, with Pumping Jack for converting Mills and pumping from wells, etc.
Illustration Shows Triumph Oil Engine Driving Centrifugal Pump.
DALGETY & CO. LTD., Miller’s Point, Sydney.
Agents for Wofseley Shearing Machines, Gane Milking Machines, etc., etc.
-
l! p h
V\
i; v ß^
n
n
:
1
THB
SHeep SHearing'
Machines.
wc iffi
aU
rrrrtmm
Do the work best
and are most profitable to pastoralists and most satisfactory to shearers—ensuring 1
the utmost harmony wherever used.
They are made for ali sizes of flocks, and embrace every modern improvement— 'are
in fact, and always have been—the definite leaders. *
Address your enquiries to the nearest branch.
DAXGETY AND CO.. AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS: ALE BRANCHES.
Here’s a Sander which handies almost
any Size or Shape of Work*
Sole Agents
The
MATTISON BLOCK SANDER
Win handle a greater variety of work than any type of Drum Sander, produce cheaper work,
and, what is really more important, WILL GIVE A BETTER AND MORE UNIFORM SURFACE.
No hand-sanding plant can ever hope to compete with a plant having a machine like this—
the best all-round sander for any cabinet-maker or joiner, and the price is within scope of all.
The practical side of the Machine is taken up and fully explained in our descriptive folder No.
131. Write or call for it.
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence St., Sydney, N.S.W.
RACKAHOCB
RENDROCR
(RACHAROCH)
is Now Available. Made in Australia.
This Favorite Compound is fully 50 per cent, more economical in use than any high explosive.
The ingredients are carried on the railways at ordinary Merchandise Rates.
No magazine is required to store the ingredients, which are quite harmless until combined.
Unsurpassed for Blowing Out Stumps and Trees, and for Subsoiling Land; for Quarrying.
* Send for our bulletin, describing its uses.
Sole Proprietors: N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., 10-12 George Street, Camperdown, SYDNEY.
