

The Spirit of Sincerity.
d:
R. G. WATKIMS & CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 JESLoiO.'fc Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
pw/,'v!v!v!»!\*‘!
tov»V»W»V»V,\VV
m
■
,’.W,
fM,
WM.
ipSplP
'MI
aaMflf
We Advance Moi\ey
ON ALL CLASSES of SECURITY
TRADE BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS and LOWEST INTEREST .
NSW MONT DE PIETE D6IC? U D
MEAD OFFICE 7 A CASTLEREAGH S T SYDNEY 74
Next to “Daily Telegraph 5
186 Castlereagh Str
’ New Building,
eet, Sydney. .
And at
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W. Telephone: City 9325.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
159 George Street West, Sydney. 40 Adelaide Street
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says:—
“The Company is very
well managed, and the
name is quite a house-
hold word in Sydney.
Its reputation is excel-
lent, and, although the
money-lender is gener-
ally regarded as a
vampire, the charge
cannot he laid at the
doors of the N.S.W.
Mont de Piete D. & I.
Co. Emitted.”
A City Sewage System
for Modern Homes.’
You simply cannot afford to take chances
with the disposal of your sewage. For
the sake of your own and your children’s
health, study the merits of the
Montgomerie-Neilson
Sewage Disposal System
This modern system does away with the
old-fashioned cesspool or tin-pan style of
W.C.—the greatest sources- of disease the
country knows.
The sewage is treated so perfectly that
absolutely no odor arises even on the
hottest days.
Over 600 are in use in N. S. Wales
alone, and the system has the O.K. of
experts the world over.
Send for free booklet, which gives facts
in detail.
MONTGOMERIE - NEILS ON
Oxidising Sewage Disposal,
50 Young Street, SYDNEY.
’Phone City 8976.
o
''! hkS
pPLE
m\
f>
%
nothino
to Argue
About!"
“Are the Best
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HANSEN’S
Junket
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
AVON
/A. TYRES.
More Miles for Your Money
m,
Q
m
“Not the same as others. 1 "’
Learn more about it. Actual samples and illustrated booklet post free on
request from
The Paraffine Companies Inc. (P. M. Prince, Australasian Manager), C hall is
House, Sydney.
makes a flat roof
as nearly perfect
as the ingenuity of man
Has yet devised.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY L?
GRANVILLE,
N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS.
ing Stock of all Descriptions. Road Metal and Farm Waggons. Portable
Machinery. Heavy Iron & Malleable Castings. Cast-iron Porcelain-Enamt
:ngines.
Sinks, etc.
9?rtfiur
Head Office,
SYDNEY.
MACHINERY.
Road-Graders for Building Good Roads.
MAKING AND GRADING EARTH ROADS, CLEANING OUT WATER TABLES.
Also for MAKING EIRE -BREA KS, Etc.
We carry large stocks of the best procurable and most up-to-date Machines.
SEVERAL DIFFERENT SIZES STOCKED, TO BE WORKED BY 2, 4 or 8
HORSES OR TRACTION-ENGINE POWER.
CATALOGUES AND FULL PARTICULARS UPON APPLICATION.
Queensland* Enquiries : The Australian Machinery Co. Ltd., Mary Street, Brisbane.
* S A. W.”
X.Y.R.” “A.W. PREMIER."
HIGH-SPEED DRILLS
Taper Shank
Straight Shank
Ratchet Shank.
Large Stocks, and Shipments now on the water from Jin. up to 2£ln. rising by i-64in.
HIGH-SPEED STEEL
Rounds
Squares
Flats.
LARGE STOCKS CARRIED.
All sizes In stock and on the water.
MANUFACTURED by
Sir W. G. ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH & CO. LTD.
MANCHESTER, ENGLAND.
Sole Representatives:
GILBERT LODGE & CO.,
506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne. 115 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
PLEASANT AND
A TRUE ANTISEPTIC-
TOOTH PASTE.
AUSTRALIA’S BEST.
The Bulletin
Vo]. 40.—N0. 2036.]
[Thursday, February 20, 1919.
PRICE 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.WAustralia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


By “JEANNETTE.’
These are, undoubtedly, days of exceptional nervous strain for one and
all of us. Anxiety, with its beauty-destroying influence, is casting its shadow
over the lives of many of us women, and while perhaps a few —the more
stoical among us —can avoid worrying over past and prospective events, we
may all, with a little care and forethought, succeed in preventing the results
of worry from being noticeable in our appearance. To these fortunate
few this little chat will, however, be as interesting and instructive as to
those who stand in real need of help in toilet matters, and may be the
means of bringing to their notice some hitherto unknown method of retain-
ing or regaining that beauty of fape and figure which is the birthright of
every woman. Some of the ingredients mentioned below are, at present, not
generally known to the public, but any good chemist will usually be found to
have a small quantity in stock.
Wrinkles, and How to Remove them. —Worry,
late hours or the passing of old Father Time
may cause those ugly little lines which so
detract from the freshness and charm of a
woman’s face; but the cure is always the
same. Feed the tissues beneath the skin, and
massage them with a reliable skin ieod, which,
while nourishing the fatty tissues, will not
coarsen the skin nor grow hairs upon the
face, as so many inferior creams do. To
remove the wrinkles, bathe the face with hot
water, wipe it dry, then, while it is still
warm, smear a little mereolized wax over the
whole face, carrying it well down on the neck,
and, with the tips of the fingers, rub it gently
into the pores, working in an upward and
outward direction. Wipe off any superfluous
wax, leaving a little on the skin all night.
In the morning wash off with warm water
and Pilenta soap. The use of the wax not
only feeds the skin, but removes the dead
outer cuticle, giving the fresh young skin
beneath an opportunity to breathe and show
itself.
Beautiful Hair—How to Shampoo.—Whether
the hair is luxuriant and glossy, or thin and
lanky, depends very largely upon the care
bestowed upon it. To keep the hair in good
condition it should be shampooed once in
every two or three weeks. Before shampooing,
massage a little pure olive oil or almond oil
into the scalp, then mix one teaspoonful of
stallax granules in a cup of hot water, fill a
basin with warm water, into which the ends
of the hair can fall, and shampoo the stallax
mixture into the scalp in the usual way.
Rinse and dry by fanning with a palm fan, or
in the open air, if the weather permits. Should
the hair be naturally very greasy, the oil
massage should be omitted. Stallax can be
bought at any chemist’s in quarter-pound
sealed packages; it keeps indefinitely, and one
package contains sufficient for 25 or 30’
shampoos.
A Greasy Skin and Blackheads.—Blackheads,
are absolutely fatal to beauty, for they give a
coarse, dirty look to the face which no cos-
metics can ever hide. The way to remove
blackheads quickly and effectively has only
recently been discovered. For many years those
who suffered in this way were restricted in
their diet, denied sweets and had to suffer
other privations. Modern science has, how
ever, provided a simple, effective and quick
remedy. Dissolve one styinol tablet in a
glass of hot water, and when the effervescence
has subsided, dip a small, soft sponge into the
liquid and bathe the face. Leave for a few
minutes, then dry with a towel, and the black-
heads will come off. For a greasy skin bathe
the face three times a week with stymol and
spray with cold water every morning, using a
vulcanite throat spray.
To Improve the Eyebrows and Eyelashes.—
Long, curling eyelashes make the most in-
different eyes look attractive, and while no
one can alter the color, shape or size of the
eyes, all may possess luxuriant eyelashes and
w’ell-shaped eyebrows. To increase the growth
of the eyelashes rub a little mennaline into
the roots very gently every night. Mennaline
is a perfectly harmless and delicate pomade-
like substance which may be obtained at any
chemist’s. For the eyebrows smear a little of
the mennaline on a small soft brush, and
brush into the eyebrows in a straight or
arched direction, according to how you wish
them to grow. A month’s treatment should'
see a marked improvement.
CAIRO.—No, I am not surprised at hearing
from a reader so far away, as I get letters
from every part of the world. I expect it is
the heat that has caused you to put on weight
so rapidly, and can quite understand how
much it adds to your age. Get a small quan-
tity of clynol berries and eat one after each
meal. They will permanently reduce your
weight, are quite harmless, and you need
make no alteration in your diet.
QUEEN BESS. —Thirty is far too young to
have grey hairs, and you must not allow the
trouble to increase. Get two ounces of tamma-
lite, mix it with three ounces of bay rum, and
apply to the hair with a small, soft sponge.
This will restore the grey and fading hair to
its original color.
EMMELINE.—For your . muddy-looking skin
get a tin of mercolised wax and rub a little
well into the face and neck every night. Leave
on till morning, then wash off, using Pilenta
soap and warm water. This will remove the''
dead outer skin and leave the complexion soft,
fresh and smooth.
JESSIE.—To remove the hairs from the lip
and chin get an ounce powdered pheminol
and use as directed. Then apply tekko paste
several times daily for some weeks. This com-
bined treatment will permanently remove all
trace of hair from your face.
FRECKLED LASS.—To prevent the freckles
from appearing use a cleminite lotion. Get an
ounce of cleminite and mix it with four ounces
of warm water, allow to cool, then dab. over
the face. This will not only protect the skin
from sunburn and freckles, but will give it a
dainty fresh look far superior to the bloom
imparted by the finest powder. [3
flp
■/. /»X‘ m
•&M
w
- 6a
r*m
\ v .
Tour Mirror
will
you
the pleasing ■
assurance that
yourComplexlon
IS what It shout
he If y«u use
TETLOW’S
mm
FACE POWDER
It imparts a delicate bloom to the
Complexion, so pure that it will
not harm the most sensitive skin.
Sold in Five Tints
White. Cream. Pink. Flesh end brunette.
by all Stores, Chemists, Perfumers and
First Class Drapery Houses
ENGLISH
PRICE
Wholesale Dislribufing P^enls:-
Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., LTD.,
Sydney.
Messrs. WASHINGTON H. SOUL,
PATTINSON & CO., Sydney.
Messrs. ANTHONY HORDERN AND
SONS LTD., Sydney.
THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.,
Sydney.
LONOON WHOLESALE ASENT3 ! -
HENRY C. QUELCH 8 CO..
4 &. 5, Ludgate Sq., London. Eng.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to. the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
f QUEENSLAND.^
THE KEY TO }
PROSPERITY.
QUEENSLAND
opens the door to
prosperity tor those
requiring land
Particulars ol the
millions ot acres of
Crown Land
now available will be
sent you at once,
also Booklets on the
State's resources—
FREE ——
Name
Address
Queensland Government
feuMi&eftce &nd Tourist Surest!
BRISBANE t
R.B.
1
LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the Bbitish Austbal-
asiaN, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
cited to visit the Bbitish Austbai.asian
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High Hol-
iorn. London, W.C., where they can see the
i„me papers, meet their friends, use tha
telephone, and obtain information without
•harge.
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
I'MUSTDIE.
I NON POISONOUS POWDER. ,
' THE GREAT INSECT DESTBMK. -
I
flies.
Fleas.
Bugs.
Mosquitoes
to
"MUSTDiE”
POWDER IS
DEATH TO FLIES AND ALL
INSECTS, COCKROACHES, ETC.
FREE SAMPLE.
Write to “Mustdie,” Dept. H, Box 1520
G.P.0., Sydney, for a trial tin; forwarded post free.
“MUSTDIE” is sold in tins, 9d. each,
Chemists and Stores. Sent post free on receipt of
stamps by the Sole Australian Agents,
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL CO., LTD., 19 York Street, Sydney
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, Melbourne Agents. [2
The Red Page
The Book of the Devi l
When the Book of the Devil is writ-
ten, which will be as soon as I have
the time and materials, it will show
that all through the long, dreadful war
there isn’t one authenticated record of
his appearance. If a material Devil
exists there was never a time when he should
have been more liable to show up. His
torpidity suggests the ’bus-missing habit. A
solid Devil should have been seen, but he
wasn’t. A gas Devil should have been smelt,
but everything was smelt except him. An
audible Devil should have made his roar
heard above the combat, but there was no
special roar. All was blank.
If there had been air appearance it would
have supplied information of value. The
Devil of Scripture is. a rather polite, shadowy
character. Certainly the churches have
made a fearsome creature of their own —
huge, fat, black, pot-bellied, horned, tailed,
hoofed, scaly, noisy, malodorous, vulgarly
malicious, always blowing off steam and
always boiling hot. The churches have been
paid for keeping this object off the premises.
Also they have built a place for him to sim-
mer in. and been paid for keeping people out
of that place. But the Devil of Holy Writ,
except as seen in an alleged dream on an
island, is nothing like this. His character
stands fairly high. He isn’t accused of
bigamy, arson, pocket-picking, forgery,
assault and battery, blackmail, petty larceny,
adulteration, shortage in trust funds, light
weight, unpaid dog-assessment, poaching,
misdescription of goods, habitual drunken-
ness, wife desertion, hawking without a
license, abandonment of infants, thuggee,
dacoity, lack of lawful means of support,
obstructing traffic, false coining, gambling,
keeping open after hours, cattle-lifting,
piracy, deficient postage, insulting the police,
bushranging, neglect to destroy rabbits, being
in possession of goods reasonably supposed
to be stolen, publishing without an imprint,
maintaining dirty premises, having on hand
food unfit for human consumption, simoffy,
dummying, breach of promise of marriage,
illicit distillation, barratry, abduction, con-
cealment of birth, parricide, infanticide,
furious driving, driving on the wrong side
of the road or without lights, or failure to
contribute to the support of his aged parents.
Apparently he might have been trusted with
untold gold or a brewery. That is a long
list of acquittals and it is only the begin-
ning. The Devil was never suspected under
the by-laws of waste of water or leaving an
excavation unfenced. Other things that are
not charged, or only charged by the most
shadowy implication, include idolatry, blas-
phemy, bribery, cruelty, conspiracy, trespass,
high-treason, political corruption, desertion of
his flag and cowardice in the face of the
enemy. Personation is tinted at, but not
often. There isn’t the remotest suggestion
that he was ever guilty of bathing in the
nude, usury, travelling by rail without a
ticket, or anonymous letter-writing. And
it isn’t specified that he was a common
nuisance.
On the whole it is hard to say what the
picturesque old shadow is accused of, or is
meant to be accused of, apart from the vision
of the writer on the island, which is no
definite indictment after all. There are only
a few dozen persons in the Scripture about
whom worse things aren’t said than about
the Devil. Some only appear to vanish in
a cloud of obloquy. The mysterious
“Blastus, the King’s chamberlain,” makes
one solitary entrance, which is also his soli-
tary exit, and all we see of him is a hand
held out for boodle. (Instinctively we pic-
ture it as a plump, well-groomed hand with
rings on it.) A reasonable idea is that
serious condemnation wasn’t intended until
small, uninspired men, with small imagina-
tions and a pitiably crude style of art, let
themselves loose in later years.
Never once is the Devil spoken of with
the contempt that is thrown at a jackal or
an informer, or a false witness, or a process-
server. Once he is described as a roaring
lion—a king of beasts. No one dreamt of
calling him a roaring caterpillar. In the
best society—divine society—lie appears, not
as an equal but as a lordly inferior, the
highest of the nobility, a sort of deputy or
sub-king like Herod the Great.
The serpent of Genesis had nothing to do
with the case. The serpent with his tail
in his mouth is a symbol of eternity. The
serpent in a coil or a streak or a heap or a
festoon stands for wisdom.
The Devil makes a definite appearance in
the Book of Job, where he is mentioned as
a pedestrian and is received in a friendly
spirit. But he does no harm to Job until
his attention is specially drawn to the patri-
arch —the one boiled patriarch on record-
Afterwards there is a long gap till he trar,
spires as a tempter in the Gospels- No de-
scription of his appearance is furnished, and
it isn’t alleged that his language was other
than polite, or that he wouldn’t have fulfilled
his end of the bargain if his offers had been
accepted. Further on there are other
slight allusions ; some mention of small, retail
and annarently disconnected imps which
entered hogs and such-like; and in Revela-
tion there is a dragon which doesn’t exactly
correspond with either the pedestrian of
Job or the imps which inhabited the hogs.
Against the dragon certain censures are
made, but he has a very small part.
The favorite Devil of later years was of
the Mephistopheles type. He was sober,
rather comely in a brunette sort of way,
about sft. lOiin. high on the stage, well-
built and muscular, and a good and refined
conversationalist. His only blemish was an
occasional lameness in one foot. His teeth
and nails were well cared for, and his
clothes, usually red and black, were made by
a first-class tailor. The impression he cre-
ated was that of being well-read' and widely
travelled. Certainly lie never ate with his
knife or sang out of tune, and the only evi-
dence against him was that the simple fat
maiden with flaxen hair had cold shudders
when he passed. Misfortune fell on some
of the people he met. but that happens to the
people who meet anybody. Tie wasn’t very
busy over sin or lie. wouldn’t have had so
much time to waste on Faust, and when he
hooked on to a man, parasite-fashion, he
didn’t live at his expense like most parasites,
but paid for his own drinks.
A really wicked and material Devil would
surely have been around in the great Four
Years War to claim credit for his work and
see that things were being done properly.
His failure to eventuate —in fact, liis con-
stant failure to eventuate—casts a shadow
of doubt on a personage who is rather a
shadow himself.
JAMES EDMOND.
The Hun Stomach from Within
The Iron Ration is an interesting account
of the German stomach, viewed from inside,
during the earlier years of the war. The
stomach is practically untrodden ground in
this case. The writer, George Abel Schreiner,
is a United States journalist who was sta-
tioned in Germany till circumstances drove
him away. His view is that the Hun is
excellent at any big job that lias been care-
fully rehearsed, but the famine-wasn’t re-
hearsed, because Hans had arranged for a
short, sudden war like those of 1866 and
1870-71, and hunger wasn’t on the time-
table. The first glaring blunder was in 1914.
The Government recommended a slaughter
of fat hogs for preservation, as it is a
waste to spend precious food on a hog that
is nearly bursting. Thick-headed officials,
eager to carry out the wishes of the All-
Highest, issued fierce instructions to slay
hogs. There was a massacre of hogs at a
time when butchers were scarce, many of
them having gone to the war. Ancient tailors
and road-menders slew hogs and pickled
them oE tailoring and road-mending prin-
ciples, and half of them went bad- Food-
hoarding was rampant, and when vast quan-
tities of food were hidden under the bed it
also went bad. Distribution was muddled.
Profiteering was rampant. The Germans
are heavy feeders or over-eaters, and two
empires which were bursting with victuals at
the outset speedily ran short. When the
Government got into its stride and regula-
tion became scientific, things improved ; but
the beginning of 1917 was very nearly a
crisis. The writer records that an omnibus-
ful of starved people smells like a dead body,
which is worth noting for future reference,
lie describes the Hun secret-service officer,
except in the higher grades, as a lout; the
Hun detective as too obvious, so that the
man he is shadowing thinks he is haunted
by an elephant; and the Hun petty official,
who is generally a retired non-commissioned
officer, as a dreary and offensive wooden
image. One of his theories is that the food
blockade was a mistake —that the Hun
should have been encouraged to pour out
his gold for victuals in his confidence that
the war would shortly end. Then, penniless
and with a distended stomach, he would have
come up with a shock against destitution.
About that time the screw should have been
put on suddenly and hard. As it was, when
he saw his supplies diminishing, he took
early to e.conomy and the hunt for food-
substitutes. Mr. Schreiner writes in a dis-
passionate tone, but his sympathies are not
violently British. He mentions, for instance,
that the Lusitania butchery was a “mistake”
and the desolation of Belgium another. He
admires the Kaiser with a solid admiration,
and says of the Prussian Junker that the
good he did will unhappily be interred with
his bones. (Published by John Murray,
London.)
“Women as Capitalists”
Owing _ probably to the limitation of
female children, women became sparce, and
the defrauded males started the custom of
wife by _ capture—surviving in form with
our aboriginals and the Indian Todas —and
like all captives she was, a slave; and a slave
in varied forms to the other sex she has
remained to this day. But when she has had
the opportunity and strength of mind to
assert herself, as Elizabeth of England,
Catherine of Russia, Isabella of Spain, or
the many women writers or artists of capa-
city, she has revived her promiscuous in-
stincts; and such women are usually good
rulers, managers and financiers. Except to
obfuscated males such as “Horace Cheese”
(B 00/l/’ID) there is no woman problem;
tor woman with the vote will evolve her own
future from her own standpoint.
* s waQ ting that woman has
rallen m over Bolshevism.” The Soviets
who rule are selected by adult suffrage; that
is. by a majority woman vote; and their
action, when we truly know the facts, will
be found to reflect her wishes. Faithfully
translated, the alleged nationalisation of
women may be, not her further enslavement,
but her protest against being the personal
chattel of men.
Woman is no problem to women. When
she gets the chance, she is quite sure she
will make a better world than man has done,
and surely she can hardly make a worse.
SARAH JANE.
The Gentle Publisher
lh°s. J. Symons, George Robertson’s pub-
lishing manager for many years, responds:
“0.L.”: (B. 23/l/’l9) either does not know or
wilfully ignores the difference between "publish-
ing” and “bookselling.” The cases quoted by him
were mere matters of bookselling, and in no sense
a part of the publishing business. The figures
given by me referred only to books which were
produced entirely under my own control—from
typesetting to binding—and a moment’s thought
should have shown “0.L.” that my figures could
not possibly refer to the publications he instances
These would amount, in the period under discussion
(about nine years), to many thousands, not hundreds.
In the matter of the 40 p.c. commission, “O.L.'
is surely wilfully blind. Robertson’s business was
SO p.c. wholesale, and any book published by them
was sold to the trade all over Australia at dis-
counts varying from 25 to 33J p.c.—according
to the buyer’s position in the trade and the number
bought—but the average discount worked out at
about 30 p.c. Then the cost of advertising, showing
of the book by travellers, handling' and trade losses,
depreciation 6f. stock, etc., made up another 5 p.c.,
so the original 40 p.c. shrank to very small profits
indeed, on the purely wholesale trade.
Coming to the retail side of the business, does
0.L.” know that in a large bookselling concern
(Continued on page 26.)


Farming Implements at Anthony Horderns’
Wiard Disc Harrows.
Usual Price. Reduced to
Wiard 6ft. Disc Harrows £l4/15/- £l4
Wiard 6ft. Disc Gangs, to con-
vert Spading to Disc Harrow.. £6 £5/10/-
Wiard Ploughs.
_ r . „ Usual Price. Reduced to
Wiard No. <4 1-horse Ploughs.. 60/- 85/-
Wiard No 75, 1-horse Ploughs.. 90/- 85/-
Hill and Drill Seeders.
„ „ Usual Price. Reduced to
No. 22 Combination Hill and Drill
Seeders 77/6 70/.
12in. 2-row Onion Drills 40/- 25/-
I4in. 2-row Onion Drills 46/6 35/-
Dependable Cutters.
„ Usual Price. Reduced to
Ohio No. 9 Plantation Cutters.. £l4/5/6 £l3/10/-
Ohio No. 11 Plantation Cutters.. £l6 £l4
Ohio No. 11 Ensilage Cutters and
Blower £2B
Ohio No. 14 Ensilage Cutters and
Blower, with Truck ......... £5O
Ohio No. 100 Ensilage Cutters and
Blower £43
£27
£4O
£4l
Wiard Hillside Ploughs.
58
Usual Price. Reduced to
Wiard No. 21 Hillside Ploughs,
1- 70/- 65/-
Wiard No. 120 Hillside Ploughs,
2- £5/17/6 £5/12/6
Wiard No. 100 2-horse Single
Furrow Ploughs £5/10/- £5/5/-
Wiard No. 85 Hilling or Ditching
Ploughs 60/- 55/-
MEN on the Land know by
experience that the best
results are obtainable only by
using reliable implements.
That is why prudent agricul=
turists purchase their farming
needs at Anthony Horderns’,
where dependableand efficient
implements are offered at
prices so moderate that they
cannot be approached else=
where. Illustrated are farm=
ing necessities that have been
specially reduced in price.
They economise time and
increase efficiency, and should
therefore find a place on every
farm conducted on modern
lines.
flen on the land—and women also—
will find much to interest them in our
latest catalogue, gratis and post free
on request. This publication points
the way to true economy. Write for
a copy now.
Challenge Oil Engines
and Windmills.
m
CHALLENGE
Usual Price. Reduced to
lih.p. Petrol Engines £3O £29
4h.p. Kerosene Engines ... £6O £57/10/-
611. p. Kerosene Engines ... £B7/10/- £B5
Oh.p. Petrol Engines £B5 £B2/10/-
Bh.p. Petrol Engines £lO5 £lOO
Bh.p. Kerosene Engines .. £llO £lO5
lOli.p. Petrol Engines £l3O £l2O
12h.p. Petrol Engines £l5O £l4O
6ft. Steel Windmills £9/5/- £9
12ft. Steel Windmills £23 £22
30ft. 4-post Steel Towers .. £lO/18/6 £lO/10/-
Canton Disc Ploughs.
Usual Price. Reduced to
Canton 1-furrow Disc Plough
9/10/- £lB
9/10/- £lB/10/-
4/10/- £23/10/-
8/10/- £27
Canton Lever Harrows.
<2 i:
as
Canton lever Guard Harrows
(50-teeth)
Usual Price. Reduced to
£B £7
Reliable Corn Shelters.
Usual Price. Reduced to
Hayes’ Corn Shelters—
No. 8 £6/10/- £6/5/-
No. 15 (hand or power) £l3/10/- £l3
No. 17 (for power, with bag-
ger) £lO/10/- £l9
Wiard Spading: Harrows.
Usual Price. Reduced to
Wiard Spading Harrows —
3ft £lO £9
4ft £lO/15/- £9/15/-
sft. A £ll £lO
6ft. A £l2/15/- £l2
6ft. C £l3/15/- £l3
6ft. P £l4/10/- £l3
7ft. C £l5 £l4
7ft. F £l5/10/- £l4
Bft. C £lO/10/- £l6
ANTHONY HORDERN H SONS.U!
Only Universal FVoviders,
New Pal ace Emporium,
4£/uvt<*;
B i~ickfield
S.ydn ey.


I#.#
adamax
UMd
UUd
m
wm.
j
unkm
fa.
■>»
m
lui
So • _nCJ
‘lnvM
Y '
f'lXi
*sp
W7r7////
and roof with
O wonderful day ! That day when your
“ house o’ dreams” comes to life, and
you and your architect actually begin its
designing.
The designs and plan are very import-
ant and must be carefully worked out,
but —of equal —if not greater importance
is the roofing.
When you think of Roofings the name
Adamax comes first to your mind. 1 hat
is because Adamax Roofing is known all
over Australia for Quality , Durability ,
and Economy .
The use of Adamax as a roofing will
materially lessen the cost of your building.
It costs only one third the cost of galvan-
ized iron, and the additional saving in
freight is a big item.
o o
For all-round Economy Roof with Adamax, the time-
proof Roofing that means longer service and greater
freedom from upkeep expense.
Our free Descriptive Pamphlet gives full details and
valuable information on Adamax Roofing and how to
lay it. Send to Desk “B ” for Copy to-day. Also for
free samples.
“Adamax”
Asphaltum
Roofing
is a fire retardant, is
easy to lay, resists the
ravages of rain, heat,
wind, cold, etc., is not
affected by gas, acids,
or chemical fumes; is
cooler in summer and
warmer in winter, is
low in first cost and
upkeep. It is the “Best
Roof Value Your
Money can Buy.”
I
warn
*
SYDNEY . BRISBANE . MELBOURNE ADELAIDE . PERTH


■M
■ 'V'-'
''4 s
:
Hat by Mirette,
104, Wardour Street , London, W. 1
Photo: Mile. Paulette del Baye,
by Bertram Park.
Dyßamo
& RAINPROOF
Tulle
The best milliners always use
“ Dynamo ” Rainproof Tulle. The
best Stores sell it by the yard.
And ladies insist upon having it
because it is the best.
Because “Dynamo" Rainproof
Tulle is the best —whether for
millinery, scarves, neckwear, or
other purposes—naturally enough
in some shops endeavours are
made to foist upon the unsus-
pecting customer inferior imita-
tions which show a larger profit
than “ Dynamo.” The only way to
protect yourself against these so-
called “ just-as-good ” Tulles is to
ask for "Dynamo” and see the
name on the card on which the
Tulle is wound.
“ Dynamo” Rainproof Tulle is not
merely rainproof, but sun-proof.
It is colour-fast. It is fadeless.
It is by far the most durable and
economical Tulle in the world,
36 ins. wide. In Black, White,
and all fashionable shades.
AT ALL PRICES.
If any difficulty in obtaining, send
P. 0., stating quantity and colour
desired, to
“DYNAMO”
(Enquiry Dept),
Carlton House,
York Street,
•V SYDNEY.
tfquaperia
V.IIAKfCCATE, ENGLAND)
BRITISH APERIENT MINERAL WATER
Supplants Apenta, Hunyadi Janos and other
German and Austrian Waters.
Editorial Note from “ Lancet,” March 20,1915 :
“The water is drawn from a spring at
Harrogate. The constituents are well
balanced in accordance with Therapeutic
requirements.” Sold by all Chemists.
Distributing Agents: —R. E. JONES & CO.,
Daily Telegraph Buildings, King St., Sydney.
Bottled by CAMIVAL, Limited, at their
Spring, TIARROGATE, England.
i sss££& Tetl
jiM <2:5; to r<? i du
or a Aumm
I/A
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
The Largest and Most Successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
directors: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman; Hon. it. j.
Black, M.L.C. ; Hon. Sir Jas. Burns, K.C.M.G., M.L.C.; Adrian Knox, Esq., K.C., C.M.G.; Sir Samuel
Hordern; Richard Teeee, Esq.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., Actuary.
Accumulated Funds, £38,000,000.
H. W. APPERLY, General Manager.
Annual Income, £5,500,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Although nearly & 1,000,000 was paid during 1917 in war claims alone, the Cash Bonus divided for th«
year 1917, including Interim Bonuses, was £585,397. Total Bonuses distributed, £22,138,000.
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards.
MERIT
In Fountain Pens, as in everything
else, it is merit that tells, and that is
why the “ Swan ” has for a quarter
of a century gained more users every
year. When you buy a “ Swan
you know you have a guarantee of
excellence in workmanship, perfection
of detail, and that absolute reliability
which has been the consistent keynote
of “ Swan ” manufacture for a
generation.
PENS
Sold by Stationers and Jetvellers Everywhere.
Australian Prices:
Standard Pattern with
Slip-on Cap, from 12/6
Safety Pattern with
Screw-on Cap, from 1 5/-
Illustrated Catalogue free on request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD.,
79-80, High Holborn, London, Eng.
Manchester, Paris, Zurich, Toronto, &c. Sydney—
(Wholesale only) 225 a, George St. London Factory—
3J9'3 2 9> Weston St., S.E. Associate House—Mabie,
Todd & Co., Inc., New York and Chicago.
Australian Branch: J. A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings, 265 a George Street, Sydney.
.fit
BOSTOCK’S DRY CLEANER
FOR
Wf)it« & Colored Suede&CaiWaS SfjoeS.
THE SIGN OF
PERFECTION
It never fails to give entire satisfaction, being easily applied, does not
rub oif, and is unequalled in every way.
COLORS:—White, Black, Light Grey, Dark Grey,
Champagne.
BoStock’S Violo Polishes, Ltd.,
SYPN€Y.
JJIJJJJJ
Present
d.e l ay
means
future
delay
Only by ordering your post-war
Sunbeam now can you be sure of
early delivery when we are d'gain
able to build private cars. Delay
now on your part means unavoid-
able delay then. The marked
supremacy of the world-famous
SUNBEAM
cars in every branch of war service
evidences our ability to produce the
finest type of car after the war, and the
demand in consequence is greater than
ever before in the firm’s history. This
is no mere advertising phrase but literally
true. Therefore if you intend to own a
Sunbeam, order your post-war model now
The Sunbeam Motor Gar Go., Ltd.
Export Department: 54-62 Oxford St., London, Enj.
Head Office - » » Wolverhampton, England
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Morgan’s Man.
“Shift yer pins, the tide is failin’;
‘Get a move on, blast yer eyes!
Swing ’im down beside the mangrove
’E won't worry w’ere ’e lies.
Bind ’is ’ead ter keep them crawlin’,
Purple crabs from off ’is eyes.
Keep that bloody lantern shinin';
Shut yer mouth, there’s no use whinin’,
Swing ’im down!
“Shift yerselves, the tide is failin’ —
Swing ’im down!
Down among them crabs a-crawlin’
Will ’e ’ear the girls a-callin’,
Callin’ from Port Royal Town?
Will ’e see the grog : shops shinin’?
Well, ’e’s gone, it’s no use pinin’—
Swing ’im down!”
FRANCE.
JACK SOMMERS.
The Inn.
In this strange inn, above whose open door
Swings Life’s old, creaking sign-board, I
must stay
A little while upon the endless way,
And leave my footprints on its well-worn
floor.
And, careful-stepping, I must wander o’er
The stained parquetry, and noiseless stray
Down labyrinthine corridors by day,
Lest I should wake those guests who came
before.
But should it pass that Love, the fairest
guest,
Still sleep unheeding in his chamber
there,
Rather than miss him would I break his rest,
And pull him o’er the threshold by his
hair,
And hold him in the hollow of my breast,
E’en though I rouse pale Death within
his lair!
VICTORIA.
MYRA MORRIS.
Ewshot Camp.
At Ewshot Camp, in Hampshire, the fields
are green and wide,
They billow on like fairy seas towards the
Surrey side, i
And vision from the little hills may wander
free and far,
At Ewshot Camp, in Hampshire, where the
Maorilanders are.
And there are hedges white with flowers and
little jocund lanes,
Shrill with the tone of tender leaves and
clean with summer rains,
And there are merry birds and bees and
flowing, glowing skies,
Gay melodies to charm the ears and play-
things for the eyes.
And yet, though English lands are fair and
English flowers are sweet,
The threads of love from Maoriland are
twined about our feet,
For all our hearts are in the South, howe’er
the course is set—
A man may kiss a winsome maid and count
her stranger yet.
A man may walk through wonder-towns
from London to Dundee,
Yet hold his town the fairer town, however
small it be!
And he may take it as a creed and know it
to be good,
This manly pride in things of home which
makes for nationhood.
The pride which wells up from the heart
and flows from hand to hand,
When Timaru meets Timaru in Ewshot or
the Strand,
When half a score of simple words have
snared the gipsy thought
And turned it southward to the Bluff or
north to Devonport.
Oh, one road leads to Farnham town and
one winds out to Fleet,
And the long roads, the brown roads, have
lured the Southern feet.
Yet eastward or to westward, wherever men
may roam,
Wc turn agafin for Ewshot Camp as tired
men for home.
The little crouching huts of grey beside the
high hill’s knees,
Bright with the gentleness of flowers and
murmurous with trees,
This little plot of English earth holds out
a friendly hand,
And, thirteen thousand miles from home,
we’re still in Maoriland.
ENGLAND.
BOYCE BOWDEN.
The Adventure.
Last night we ran her out to sea—
Our boat.
Her keel was soaked with hitter salt.
Scarred to the bones our hands
By stinging sea—
God’s curse upon the sea !
The rain fe11....
On Barret’s Reef the long waves swept.
We knew no land
Till, pulling, gun’ale low.
We saw the lamp-light glow
Beneath the hill—
And, oh, my heart stood still!
“Swing on the crest!” I said....
To me the oars seemed dead
Till, crashing through Hell’s din,
We swung her up.
And there was Madeleine.
N.S.W.
J.R.


Have a set fitted by your
local garage or by the
Manufacturers :—
FOR FORD CARS
30 x Perdriau Super Tread Fvres are guaranteed to
Ford owners for 4000 miles. Their mileage actually
goes well beyond this,
PRICE.
Cover £,61616,
High-grade Laminated Red Tube
Heavy 24/- Light 19|6.
PERDRIAU RUBBER Co. Ltd.
270 George Street, Sydney.
A/so Flinders Street, Melbourne
Gawler Place, Adelaide
Adelaide Street 7 Brisbane
Murray Street, Perth
DENYER'S
MOUTH GAG
Tbe latest improved pattern. Heavily
Nickel-plated, strongly made, durable and
efficient.
Ratchet action. No Twitch required.
Our Free book gives fuller particulars on
Veterinary Dentistry. Write for a copy
now.
Price 60/- Postage 16 extra.
DENYER BROS.,
The Veterinary House of Australia,
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
w
m
lIIJIII
iniHiiiiiiiii!iiiiEniHiiriiiiiiriii!iuuiiu(fHii,i
m
niiiTfejk
Here is the Sandwich
De Luxe
The spread that sets every
tcngae a-tingling, You’ll
like its flavor, its satis-
fying quality, its down-
light wh Aesomene'ss.
CAMP PIE
makes the sandwich lunch
a real meal. It satisfies
and sustains and you never
tire of it. Saves time too,
because it comes all ready
cooked.
Buy a tin to-day and give
the sandwich eaters a treat.
Vary the spread occasionally by
using
“REX” LUNCHEON
CHEESE
FA VO RED FOR ITS FLA VOR
Sold bp Grocers everywhere.
FOGG ITT, JONES & CO., LTD.
Curers of “Rex ” Hams and Bac:n
Packers of “Rex ” Pure Food Products
.1 5K4.
i,O
m
3W|||Pl
m
a*
A N «*M. BAGON.VEAV.
22
THEY COPY THE
COLOR, BUT-
mr,
ion
&
o
black
GOODRICH
FULL-SIZE
BLACK SAFETY
TREAD TYRES.
GOODRICH First Made the
White Tread Tyres which the
leading Tyre Manufacturers imi-
tated.
GOODRICH then improved their
Tyre by making
THE BLACK TREAD.
Other Manufacturers AGAIN fol-
lowed Goodrich Lead.
But — COLOR ALONE does
not mean Long service.
The value of the GOODRICH
BLACK TREAD does not he
in its Color but in its composition.
Don’t Be Misled by the Color —
Insist on Having GOODRICH BLACK TREADS.
DUVAL <&. CO.
145 Collins St, 13 Castlereagh St, 300 Adelaida St,
MELBOURNE. SYDNEY. BRISBANE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 40.—N0, 2036.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1919,
Pkice 6d.
HIS WELCOME HOME.
THE GIRLS HE LEFT BEHIND HIM: “So glad you’re back, dear! We’ve spent all the money and pawned everything, and now we’ll all go round to the
pop-shop and see if we can raise enough on your medals to buy you a pick and shovel.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for Tiie
Bulletin- Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £ 1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have The Bulletin
tent regularly lo you every week for a year , to any
adduess in Austiialasia, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
MOO words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Tetters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgale Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada.- —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — -N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co.. Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Comvay Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egyi'T. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Iloung, Cairo, Egypt.
llong Kong.— Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. —lF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, F&.
Colombo.
Papua. — Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of Thu Bulletin ( reyistered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Ilowe Islands,
10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., lid.; Sloz. to 10oz., 3d.;
lOoz. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, )oz., lid., and Id. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1919.
THE 34 PER CENT. AND 200 PER
CENT. PROFITEERS.
The policy of the party which is reaching
for control of the Labor political machine,
and consequently of the next Labor Govern-
ment, may be condensed into these four pro-
positions:—•
(1) It has never started any industries despite its
profound faith in its capacity for managing indus-
tries, and its belief in co-operation and in the elim-
ination of the capitalist.
(2) It isn’t starting any industries now.
(3) It doesn’t promise to start any industries —-
only to grab the few already existing.
(4) It warns all other people jiot to start indus-
tries' under pain of confiscation. They are to be
“taken over.”
It is a poor lookout for the returning soldiers
who want work. For a considerable time
the Government lias doue its best to prevent
new industries by confiscating most of the
results under its War-time Profits Tax.
This is still being collected by way of scien-
tific discouragement. The fact that a noisy
party is allowed to advertise a programme of
stealing the rest of the earnings and the
capital as well, also the savings of the
people that are invested in Government secu-
rities, doesn’t help the finding of work. The
Government, with its crazed importing
policy, doesn’t offer employment except for
a handful of people who are to go on the
land carrying a hopeless mortgage apiece.
The One Big Union doesn’t offer employment
either, but it offers a debauch of plunder and
gives its lOU at no fixed date and without
endorsement for a paradise to follow after
everything is smashed or turned upside down.
In fact, its policy, like that of the War-time
Profits Ministry, is to prevent employment,
because wages tend to allay discontent. An
instance happened recently in Queensland,
where a tin-mining town was shut up over a
dispute, not about pay or non-union labor,
but because certain unionists were discharged
aud equally good unionists employed instead.
Other instances appear in the orders issued
to certain coal-miners to reduce themselves
to needless poverty by limiting their own
earnings. There may be a lack of the tend-
ency to begin tilings or to successfully man-
age things—even the new Labor daily hasn’t
appeared yet after more than six years’ incu-
bation —but at stopping things or destroying
things the ability shown is wonderful. It
suggests the career of Samson, the Bolshe-
vik, who never built anything, though he
dragged down a large structure, and who
carried away the gate of a city but didn’t
bring it back.
Lancashire is the great textile-manufac-
turing district of the British Empire, and
last year the manufacturing companies there
—the whole lot of them—averaged a profit of
34 per cent, after providing for everything.
They realised that sum by making cloth and
thread and yarn for us (and a few other
people) because we don’t make them for our-
selves, and the One Big Union warns people
that if they try to do it the penalty will be
confiscation. Last year the Japan Mail
Steamship Co. made 200 per cent, profit by
carrying for us (and a few other people),
because we don’t own the ships that do our
foreign trade, and the go-slow policy or some-
thing prevented the Government building
them, and if private people build them they
are to be stolen as soon as the new advanced
variety of unionist forms a Government. The
Japan Mail Co., by the way, isn’t the
supreme protit-hog of its country, for one
steamship concern lately showed 700 percent,
profit; but the Nippon Yuslien Kaislia is
quoted because it is the company with which
Australia is principally concerned. And the
Lancashire cloth and yarn and thread men
aren’t the supreme profit-hogs of their
country either. They are of special interest,
however, because Australia spends some
£24,000,000 a year on imported goods of the
sort they turn out. There would be some
fine incomes to tax (the Nippon Yuslien
Kaisha’s income was £5,300,000) if this
country went in solidly for the 34 per cent,
manufacturing industry and the 200 per
cent, carrying industry instead of the 1 or 2
per cent, grain-raising business —if it does
yield that over and above a very moderate
wage for the farmer and his sons and his
employees. And if the profits of manufac-
turing and carrying weren’t so big here
owing to wages in this country being higher
than the average, the 34 per cent, and 200
per cent, would still be in this country in
one shape or another. As it is, the per
centages are in other countries and the big
taxes the capitalists pay go to the British
and Japanese Governments. At the same
time these high earnings run up the cost of
living here, whereupon the Labor policy is
to strike against the few humble industries
we have to make them pay for the profiteer-
ing of the industries we haven’t. For in-
stance, there were 20 different varieties of
coal companies’ stock quoted in the S. M.
Herald the day this was written. Three
pay 121) per cent.; three 10 per cent.; three
8 per cent ; one 74 per cent.; three 6 per
cent.; two 5 per cent.; five pay nothing. _ A
person who invested all round, not buying
at fancy prices but going in at the beginning
of the concerns, would average not much
more than he would get out of the war loan,
with vastly more worry and risk. Against
the rapacity of these local concerns the
unions wage ceaseless war, basing their
claims on the increased cost, of living, which
in its turn is largely caused by the need to
provide 34 per cent, profits for foreign cloth-
and yarn-makers, and 200 per cent, for foreign
carriers. The high price of explosives, which
have to earn foreign dividends ranging as high
as 200 per cent., is also quoted as a hardship.
But while Labor leaders denounce the local
cormorant who ranges from per cent,
down to nothing per cent., there is
never a word against the foreign 200-per-
cent.-down-to 34-per-cent, cormorant. Yet lie
is not only the more expensive cormorant of
the two —he is the bigger one. Australia
pays for imported softgoods of one sort or
another four times as much as it pays for
local coal. So the outside softgoods person
not only levies tribute on four times as
many pounds of the people’s earnings as the
local coal-owner, but takes a much bigger
bite out of each pound.
* * * *
Possibly the farmer, when ,he acquires
some rudiments of political economy, may
hold a hand in the argument, it being one
in Which lie is deeply concerned. Taking
wheat, the article which counts for more
than all other forms of agriculture put to-
put together, as a test, this is about what
the country wants : —-
(1) A fixed minimum price of, say, ss. per bushel,
or whatever more is required to enable the farmer to
live decently, even allowing for drought years, and
pay decent wages.
(2) A local demand which, taking one year with
another, will not only absorb the present crop but
allow for growing much bigger crops in the future,
and the consequent expansion of settlement and
development of the country's great natural resources.
That demand can be created by having the people
who manufacture and carry for us located here, to
pay taxes and share the public debt and eat the ss.
(or 65.) wheat, instead of being abroad eating other
people’s wheat and earning 34 per cent, or 200 per
cent, dividends for outside capitalists, at our ex-
pense. From 1901 to 1906 the average price of wheat
in London varied from 3s. 4d. to 3s. Bd. per bushel.
The attempt to live in great part by supplying such
a market, in which case the export price fixes the
local price, is rags and starvation for a country
like ours. When wheat-gets down to the 2s.9£d. which
was the average of 1894 (about Is. 9}d. per bushel
at this end) it will be sheol for the returned soldier
who is raising a good average 12-bushel crop if the
export market fixes prices.
And it will be especial sheol if the things
he buys are loaded with the burden of pay-
ing the sort of dividends already quoted to
people who are not amenable to Australian
legislation. The one thing that can rescue
the wheat-farmer from pauperism is a big
local market, which means a big local manu-
facturing population.
THE CLOSED BARS.
Tiie influenza scare has given N. S. Wales
a taste of prohibition. Of course the closing
of the bars has not stopped the consumption
of alcohol. Tangled limbs are still an occa-
sional feature of the landscape. But there
lias been a change in the environment of
drinking, and it has been all to the good.
Many citizens do not get drunk premedita-
tedly ; they drift into inebriation because of
.the shouting habit and tlie frequency of
bars. Most of these persons have been sober
lately. Family parties have, however, been
taking tlieir refreshment in the shady com-
fort of gardens—which is as it should be in
Australia ; and as it is in some of the sober-
est countries, jiotably Spain and Italy.
Under a proper set of drink-laws it should
be no more disgraceful to consume alcohol
than meat. What is it that has made the
act of drinking in public more or less shame-
ful, and the very word “drinking” one that
carries with it a suggestion of immorality?
It is the loathsome surroundings in which
most public drinking is carried on. A low-
class bar during a busy hour is about as frag-
rant and as edifying as a thieves’ kitchen.
But there is no reason why the consumption
of liquor should mostly occur in an insanitary
and quasi-criminal atmosphere—no reason,
that is. unless to drink is in itself wrong. If
it is, then total prohibition is right. If it
isn’t, the methods of the trade in many parts
of the Commonwealth are ripe for change.
* * * *
Sydney has always had more than its
share of undesirable pubs. It is likely to
remain in that position so long as it clings
to local option. Under local option the
worst of the drinking-dens never go. There
are streets in Surry Hills and Woolloomoo-
loo with three pubs inside a hundred yards.
They persist because a sufficient number of
the inhabitants like them, just as some people
like dirt and open drains. Most of the
genuine hotels—places, that is, which are
not mere camouflaged bars, but cater hon-
estly for the accommo’dation-seeking citizen
—are in residential suburbs. Many of their
patrons come from a distance. The local
people have no special interest in them.
With the first temperance wave that drifts
along they are liable to go—to no purpose,
so far as the quelling of alcoholism is con-
cerned, and to the inconvenience of people
in all parts of the Commonwealth. Local
option never has meant local sobriety;
merely local tyranny—wowserous or alco-
holic, as the case may be—-exercised without
reference to the general good. A far better
system is the Victorian one of a Licensing
Reduction Board. It has been justifying
itself for 10 years now. Under this arrange-
ment, during a few months short of 10 years,
over a thousand third- and fourth-rate hotels
have been wiped out. In the same period,
in N. S. Wales, 300 have gone, and some of
them were institutions that an impartial
body would have spared. Under local option
a pub which is unfit to live is given three
years of life. In Victoria the logical thing
is done; the plague-centre is eliminated on
the spot. The N. S. Wales pub-keeper gets
no solatium; the Victorian is equitably
compensated from a fund subscribed by the
trade. It enables the dispossessed beer-
retailer to. start in some other line on a
solvent basis. And it is well worth while as
regards the publicans who are left. Their
businesses become proportionately more
valuable. And, incidentally, they are able
to improve their premises, pay better wages,
cut out all forms of illegitimate trading, and
in general make the retailing of alcohol more
decent. One method is scientific and fair;
the other haphazard and unjust. The one
tends to eliminate the inebriate; the other
fills the streets with him to the exasperation
of everybody but the professional anti-drink
orator.
* * * *
If Australia had its due there would not
be a shut-in drinking shop from Broome to
Sydney. The tiny bar-parlor, with its foetid
air, is an inheritance from the weather-
beaten communities of the other end of the
world. The Australian climate —even more
than the climates of Italy and of Southern
France —is made for out-of-doors drinking.
This is not, for the most part, a climate for
spirits, for ports or sherries, or for the
solid English beers of pre-war days. Aus-
tralia’s line should be light wines and lighter
beers. As recently as 10 years ago it was
the fashion to sneer at the local wines. Aus-
tralian sparkling wine was a by-word
amongst people .who gladly absorbed the
most poisonous imported champagnes; and
Australian clarets and hoc-ks were repre-
sented as beverages that no cultivated
palate could touch. Foreign buyers awoke
to the excellence of Australia as a wine-
growing country long before the Australian
public did ; and vast quantities of the local
product went abroad, some of it to be re-sold
here as French and German. The war gave
our. wine industry that drastic Protection
which the politicians had denied it. To-day
there are. perhaps 10 people drinking Aus-
tralian wine for every one who drank it five
years ago. But with the wine, as in the
case of spirits and beer, too much is
absorbed in furtive and insanitary surround-
ings.
It may be that all drinking in Australia
is doomed. That is to say, all legal drink-
ing. The more low-class boozing-shops
there are, and the more their handiwork is
flourished in the face of the electors, the
nearer that eventuality must approach. If
the trade is to remain indefinitely the noi-
some thing it is in so many parts of our big
cities and in so many country centres, then
total prohibition for the whole of Australia
—with all that it means in sly-drinking,
illicit-distilling and other forms of law-
defiance—is an endurable conception. But
there is no reason why the disorderly side of
the drink-selling business should not be sup-
pressed. The first curse that calls for atten-
tion is the low-class pub, which has its best
chance of survival under local option. The
next is a well-known type of wine-bar. The
wine-growers could do much to squelch the
latter, by starting, either in co-operation or
singly, street cafes and open-air gardens on
the European plan. They would in this way
at once advertise the soundness of their
wines—which is in strong doubt amongst
those who only know them in bodegas—and
help to make drinking a reputable function.
That will never happen so long as a man is
only able to drink in a resort where he may
not take his wife and family, and where he
would not take them if he could.
A PLAGUE OF WINGS.
The next epidemic likely to attack Australia
with force will be a plague of wings. There
is a natural link between that and the pre-
sent scourge of the mask; for no one who
has felt the wire and gauze tickling his nose
but must have longed for the easy climb
through the air to a home on the mountains
or the northern hills where the air is clear
and pure and the gum-trees breathe only
the infection of health. That the coming
time of wings will be in the nature of an
epidemic is pretty sure ; that it will cause
serious rises of temper and increase the
blasphemy to a shocking point is equally to
be depended upon. People no older in years
than the Australian Labor party can remem-
ber when the disease of the motor-car first
struck us. Then, for lurid months, there
was a car in every country ditch, with a
sweating, swearing man under it. Enthusi-
asts lost their reason, temporarily or per-
manently, lying on the ground amid seas of
nuts and bolts, while oil dripped in their
eyes and petrol perfumed their whiskers. But
they learned to know their cars, to keep
them on the track, to exceed the speed limit
with impunity, and even to pay their fines
with grace and abandon. When the wing
fancy comes along there will be much doing.
Maddened pilots of the sky will look for
soft clouds to bump into, smooth fields in
which to descend ; and lame ducks will trail
home from far adventure, their wings stiff-
ened with saplings cut from the bush and
their engines snorting and clacking with
strain. After that, the air will begin to be
safer than road or rail or water; and the
glide home to dinner will be one of the joys
of life. Between five and six in the evening
the population of Australia will be reduced
by about one-third the third will be some-
where between the earth and the moon,
breathing an alpine air as an appetiser and
getting a better view of the State than any
to be obtained from the columns of the daily
newspapers. Australia comes late into the
field; even now William Webster is too
busy explaining why the telegrams were
not delivered to consider the aeroplane
as a mail carrier. But all that will
bo altered in a year or two. Our
fliers bore themselves as bravely as any in
the stress of war; and in the greater stress
of the coming peace they and their countless
apt pupils will bring us a new heaven and a
new earth.
* * * *
One of the first effects of aerial travel
must be the disintegration of cities. The
bottom slopes of the Blue Mountains will
be within 20 minutes of Sydney, as close as
Darlinghurst is to-day; Buffalo will be as
near Melbourne as Essendon is now ; and a
sudden slump in rents is going to strike a
lor of prosperous owners of congested brick
with a sudden and incurable pain. Not that
the worker will take to the aerial ’bus all at
once. The people who live in the outer
suburbs will lead the way. They sought
those outer suburbs for air; they will dis-
cover that there is more air beyond. Then
the tile-roofed villa on the section that once
seemed so desirable will go begging until
the navvy and his family come in at a
nominal rent to keep it from falling into
ruins. Ruin will become the chronic con-
dition of many nearer streets until the pub-
lic authorities buy them in at sevenpence a
yard and turn them into open spaces for the
landing and taking off of the countless
machines of the air. There will be no diffi-
culty about obtaining sites for theatres with
open ground around all four sides; factories
will be dropped down in any place that is
convenient for rail or water carriage. The
laundry-plane will take your shirts a hun-
dred miles away to scrub them; and the
morning paper will fall as an aerial torpedo
among your roses. Nobody will feel lonely
who has a neighbor within 40 miles. The
doctor will leap over a mountain range at
the tinkle of a telephone bell; and the ambu-
lance will be there with a flutter and a
whisk to carry the patient without hint of
jolt or jar to any hospital within thinking-
distance. At election time the flow of talk
will be continuous; for the candidates will
be able to visit all parts of their electorates
several times a day; and the party lie wall
be often challenged in an outlying neighbor-
hood many hours before it arrives. For
the first time in the world’s history truth,
if it has a better machine, will be able to
beat slander. And beyond the sky ’bus and
the family biplane there wall, of course, be
the great cloud coaches for distant parts.
And the pioneer spirit will wake again as
the dread of long distances and possible
deserts die. Some snug little homestead
beyond the spot where Leichhardt per-
ished will be no farther away by a measure
of hours than the present week-end cottage
of the person with a good car. The spread
of population will at last become satisfac-
tory ; and even the politician may gain
some geographical knowledge which will
make the idiocies of the past seem incred-
ible.
But the material advantages and changes
will be as nothing to the mental and moral
uplift. Thinking in terms of Australia will
become possible. The larger outlook will be
the rule; idealism will win its final victory
over sordid earthiness. The daily and
hourly flight will get a sense of speed into
the blood. Thought will be swifter as well
as more logical and better sustained. Crime
will diminish ; disease wall change its forms
preparatory to getting out of business. The
eyes of a new generation will grow brighter;
the lungs will expand; the very features
will be refined. Breathing so much upper
air, the people will speak in more musical
tones, break more frequently into song,
and move when on the solid earth itself with
more rhythmic movements. Living more
rapidly, they will live longer too; the mental
activities of the individual will be infinitely
prolonged. Pride will grow—a pride of
race and place such as the world has not
yet known; and out of it will spring new
sciences, new schemes, new sentiments,
new dreamings. The possibilities are almost
boundless once the idea of aerial flight
grips us and the people of Australia take
to the element that must hereafter be so
essentially their own. Five years ago the


great war that leaped upon us and changed
all the world seemed to most men an utter
impossibility; yet it came with all its hor-
ror of blood and tears and has left us hesi-
tating and doubting on the verge of a future
that refuses to explain itself by any anal-
ogy with the past. Let any person of
modern vision think about the potentialities
of the new science of flight, and he can
hardly fail to see that for us it must be a
bigger thing than even the biggest contest
of nations that was ever waged. Time and
distance are greater enemies than any Hun
with poison-gas and creeping submarines;
to conquer these is to win to a real place
in the sun. And considering these things
not as far-off possibilities of a future age
but as close-up adventures of our own land
within the next generation, what is the
exact use-value of corner blocks in George
and Collins streets? What are the real
assets of the nation, the things of perma-
nent worth? The public must still eat its
daily bread and there will be countless new
activities calling for new developments of
our natural resources; but these things can
only be guessed one at a time. What the
coming plague of wings will bring in its
wake it is impossible to gamble upon ; but
one thing stands out with tremendous em-
phasis. The only thing the war has left
unchanged is the character of the nations
engaged in it; the only thing that is a safe
national investment for the years to come
is that very character. Australian energy
is tremendous, as the German knows to his
cost; and on that energy, directed and con-
trolled, the future can safely plunge. In
other words, Australian manhood is more
than bricks or produce or the land itself.
Any sane policy must be shaped in the
light of that knowledge.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Parliament of Nations.
The League of Nations plan seems to provide
for everything except an army and navy and
an international nolice force with which the
Legislature and Judiciary of the League can
enforce their decisions. The Legislature,
so far as the scheme appears to have got, will
be just a Gabble Parliament. Certainly
coercion is. provided for, but the provision
mentioned is so futile that it sounds like the
explosion of a paper bag. In case a nation
makes war without the consent of the League,
that body may order its members to break
off diplomatic relations with the offender,
which they will do if they feel inclined, but
the League will have no force with which to
compel them. In any case they would do
it if they felt inclined, without any League.
Then the Gabble Parliament may order an
economic, blockade of the aggressive country,
which, will happen if its members feel that
way just as it always has happened when
any State felt that way. Last of all, the
Gabble Parliament, having no army or navy
of its own. may order its members to make
war on the miscreant who is upsetting the
tidiness of things, and they will either make
war on him or on each other, or not make
war at all, just in the old, old fashion. The
practical members of the Peace Conference —-
those who are supplying men and munitions
and money (though not too abundantly) to
prevent the Poles and Esthonians and
Czecko-Slovaks from being crushed, and are
doing the hard, dusty garrison duty in’Pales-
tine and Mesopotamia and Bulgaria and
Constantinople—will probably have some
definite military and naval arrangements
crowded into the Constitution later on. But
the present essential appears to have simply
been to get together a preliminary, non-
contentious sketch that Wilson can submit
to his hostile Senate with some chance of
success.
Quarantine.
Fok the trouble that occurred at the Sydney
quarantine station the other day, when a
thousand Diggers from the Argyllshire
walked out in a body, the newspapers are
largely to blame. With hardly an excep-
tion tiny have not given the smallest atten-
tion to che manner in which the station has
been conducted. Instead, they have poured
melted butter over the magnificent services
and so on which the station rendered in
allegedly keeping the disease out of Sydney.
Their one thought has been for themselves ;
they have had none for the people inside
the quarantine area. As a matter of fact,
the conduct of the place has been disgrace-
ful. The drinking water has been caught
from the roofs of the quarantine buildings
themselves and stored in dirty tanks, so
ancient, some of them, that holes in them
have been plugged with bits of wood and
rag. People who have been crowded into a
steam chamber have had to walk afterwards
in their sodden clothes a third of a mile.
Attendants without masks have climbed
over gates from one compound to another.
There has been no dispensary available to
the confinees: if they felt off-color they
could not provide themselves with simple
remedies. Their effects have been piled in
heaps, and after being in the station for a
week or 'more have been sent out without
any. attempt at fumigation. Yet any
criticism of the station has been met with
an almost fierce shout of derision. The per-
son in quarantine has been given to under-
stand that he has committed some offence,
and was very lucky not to have been sent
to gaol. He has been treated as a person,
deserving far less consideration than he has
got, however little that has been. That
there would be a protest some time or other
was inevitable. And there will be more yet
unless there is a complete change of public
attitude with regard to the nature of quaran-
tine and the rights of those who have to
undergo it.
4
The Lost Legions.
It was officially stated the other day by
A.I.F. Headquarters in London that 741 Aus-
tralian soldiers had taken their discharge
there to accept commissions in the British
Army. The present War Office authorities
have no use for duds, so it may be assumed
that they have acquired a good lot. But
if they are good enough for the United King-
dom they are good enough for Australia.
Australia made them in a military sense.
Why should it now lose them? The answer
is to be found in “the System.” Under
“the System,” as practised at Victoria
Barracks (Melbourne and Sydney) and
throughout the States generally, the re-
turned soldier in search of a job, as a sol-
dier, is severely discouraged. It is impos-
sible, of course, to eliminate him entirely—
that would be too crude altogether—so
niches are found here and there; but it is
mostly in jobs relating to returned men
(5.0.1. and the like), and, in consequence,
of a fleeting nature. The solid and re-
munerative billets are steadfastly held by
the peace warriors. The latter have always
had the ear of Senator Pearce —in recent
years they have had his wool and his leg as
well. The Defence Minister’s docile reliance
on his technical advisers has enabled some
truly impudent ramps to be perpetrated. For
example, when the Duntroon officers (said
by lan Hamilton to be “worth their
weight in gold”) started tearing up the pro-
motion ladder, it was decreed, from Aus-
tralia, that none of them should rise beyond
a major’s rank. The colonel, even the
general, in his twenties was not uncommon
in other armies. He was also a possibility
in the Australian Army—provided he had
not come from Duntroon. Provided, that
is to say, he was an amateur soldier who
might be relied on, -after the war, to go back
to civil life; as against the professional, who,
if he survived, would return to be a menace
to every holder of a soft military job in the
Commonwealth. This regulation meant
that, because a number of home-service sol-
diers feared for. their positions, the A.I.F.
was permanently debarred from getting full
value out of its best men. The same prin-
ciple is followed in other directions. First-
rate soldiers—officers and other ranks alike
—mre pouring back on every transport.
Many of them are eminently suited for mili-
tary jobs on the administrative side. Some,
by reason of their wounds, are not so well
suited for any other sort of jobs. But
there is no room for them. The Pay Office,
the Provost Corps, the camps—all are fully
staffed. Perhaps as much as 90 per cent,
of the staffs are soldiers only because they
wear uniform. Even the area officers’ jobs
are mostly held by civilians, to the prejudice
of efficiency, the Australian youngster being
bitter in his contempt for the man who
might have fought and didn’t. Military
material which would be priceless to the
Commonwealth Army is arriving day by
day—to be at once and very firmly pushed
on one side. And other valuable military
material, recognising the position, is deciding
not to arrive at all.
“Melbourne Influences.”
The bitter complaint that the Australian
Government is a slave to “Melbourne in-
fluences” contains some truth and some of
the other fellow. Still, what do the com-
plainants propose to do about it? To move
the centre of Government, and have the
continent’s business run by Sydney or Bris-
bane or Adelaide or Perth or Hobart “in-
fluences” wouldn’t make it a whit less paro-
chial and lop-sided. The remedy lies in
taking the whole machine away from all
State capitals and putting it among “in-
fluences” of its own. Man is a creature of
his environment and the principal State
morning papers, tell him in their own State
fashion what his environment is. That is
often the first he hears about it. He sms
the local organs—the Argus and Age or the
Herald and Telegraph —at breakfast. The
other city papers straggle in next day or
the second or third or fourth or seventh
day, and an old paper makes little more
impression on the mind than an old Epistle
to the Corinthians. The country papers
seldom straggle in at all. There is no
Federal daily written from a purely Federal
point of view, for there is no Federal city
to write it in. The purpose of the city
papers in this amazing continent, where two
big centres contain nearly one-third of the
population and the most bloated centre is
the State capital, is to present everything to
the State Government in the supposed in-
terests of the most bloated centre. They
have the loudest yell and they get their yeil
in first. They do the same with the
h ederal Government when it settles down at
their office doors. It is the same yell with
a bigger audience. The obvious remedy for
the subjection of the Commonwealth to the
overwhelming influence of any one State is
not to have it in any State, but in a terri-
tory of its own. The plain remedy for the
mephitic State atmosphere in which the Com-
monwealth Government lives is for it to
have an atmosphere all to itself—not the
loan of an atmosphere. But, to ensure that,
the Federal city must be big enough and
prosperous enough to run a powerful press
of its own, as Ottawa and Washington can
do. It must be able to speak for itself —
not get its speak sent to it from the nearest
State metropolis. A scanty spot without
coal or iron or harbor or big river or any
rainfall worth mentioning, or any special
fertility, holds out no promise of betterment.
Things as they stand reproduce the old,'
story . the king and his mistresses,
-•-he king might mean well, but he was
guided by what he heard, and as his mis-
tresses intercepted and edited complaints
he didn t hear much. They were the local
atmosphere. Whether the local atmosphere
is a woman with family connections to serve
out of the treasury, or a press with State
interests to serve in the same way, makes
little difference.
Closing Up.
Closing up is the order of tbe day among
Australian industries. The causes are vari-
ous, but there is nothing various about the
results. The important copper industry, for
one, threatens to do a really wonderful shut-
tmg The position is that the Common-
wealth Government can’t buy the output, yet
under the mouldy regulations the producers
are not allowed to sell in the world’s
markets themselves. They are offered ad-
vances to go on with, while they are missing
the ’bus, but to borrow money on goods that
may not realise the amount of the loan when
they come to be sold is precarious, and many
of the concerns would rather postpone get-
ting out the goods till they know they are
working for a market that will pay ex-
penses. The Botany (Sydney) wool-combing
works have closed and thrown several hun-
dred men out of work, This concern was
making profits under temporary war condi-
tions that might have been called unreason-
able but for the fact that they were mostly
made out of an export trade and at the ex-
pense of the foreigner. When some foreign
cos. are making 200 per cent, profits partly
at our expense, it was refreshing to know
that we were getting a little of our own
back. But the Government fixed its eye on
these manufacturing profits and wanted 90
per cent, of them. There were alarms and
excursions and negotiations, which ended
with the company being unable to either sell
locally or export. The Ifvinebank tin-mines
in Queensland have closed, not over a wages
dispute, but because some unionists and a
foreman were sacked after an unsuccessful
year, and other unionists and a different
foreman took their places. Then came
a stoppage of shipbuilding at Cock-
atoo Dock. The reason assigned was
that the go-slow policy had cut down
the riveters’ output from 295 per man
per day to 73 per day. This was probably
due to three causes: (1) The crazy One Big
Union doctrine that the employer is an
enemy to be annoyed in every possible way,
even when the people, being the State, are
the employer themselves and are only annoy-
ing themselves; (2) the crazy fear that “the
work won’t go round” unless it is spread out
very thin, which is especially crazy in a
community that is just now paying at the
rate of £100,000,000 a year for foreign goods
to prevent itself having work; and (3) the
sloth and _ mental rust born of the loan
policy, which digs up money without effort
except the effort of leaving the bill to pos-
terity, and spends it as any other Juggins
spends a sudden fortune. A further develop-
ment is the closing up of the scheme for the
local manufacture of steel plates. They are
to be importd at £24 a ton, which will mean
£24 spent out of the country instead -of being
made here at £3l per ton, which would mean
£3l spent in this country. The contract
immediately involved is for 6000 tons, which
would mean £186,000 at local rates, and that
would pay a year’s wage to about 360 work-
ers at £lO a week. It is a little known fact
that all the money in the country goes into
the public revenue and passes out again after
some fashion or other in about a year. So
if £144,000 goes out of the country to pay
for imported plates (because they would
tiave cost £186,000 here), the revenue is
likely to be £144,000 per annum less for ever
and a day.
A Ship’s Officer’s View of It.
How one “chief” sees it:—
I. do not hesitate to say that few mercantile
marine officers sailing in Home ships would will-
ingly undertake to carry Australian troops a second
time. Imperial. Maoriland, Canadian, Indian, Ameri-
can, African troops with genuine pleasure, be-
cause of the honest, obvious efforts they put forward
t-a make the best of things, cheerfully to put up
with unavoidable discomforts, and to do what lies
in their power to assist the ship’s staff. To us
who have been carrying soldiers about in the common
cause it will always be a memory of real happiness,
for instance, that we helped to take the Americans
over. In this ship we carried 2000 “Doughboys” at
a time; they volunteered to do all manner of work
and worked joyously. With Australians it is a
matter of the greatest difficulty to get even a fatigue
party.
Of course much depends on what you term .“neces-
sary ship s duties.” I should define them as any
duties which involved the care or comfort of the
troops themselves, such as keeping clean those parts
of the ship used exclusively or almost exclusively by
the troops, taking in and stowing troop-stores at
outports like Port Said and Colombo, and the posting
of sentries in various parts of the ship.
I grant that a great deal depends on O.C. troops,
but when he knows that he may make his name
a byword for “harshness” if he attempts to enforce
discipline, it will take a more than usually strong
man to make an Australian troopship a happy ship.
Men who make a voyage of 40 or 50 days on good,
wholesome food (in spite of its alleged badness)
must be given something to do, or Satan finds some
mischief still, even with. the most docile troops in
the world. As lam now nearing the end of a
voyage from England with Australians I realise the
importance of this, and without making any allega-
tions I suggest that it should be laid down that
specific duties (to be approved by the proper mili-
tary authority in Australia) should be assigned to
all fit troops bound to this country, and also that
a l igor ous control be instituted over the supplying
and checking of troop stores. Until these reforms
are carried out, as well as rigid discipline being
maintained, you may confidently expect “a series
of sordid troopship rows.”
“ ’Flu and Funk.”
Harrison O.” puts the cheerful view:—-
Ihe Bulletin (13/2/’l9) says that “Dr. Robert-
son looked on the bright side of things till a great
many people were dead.” What Robertson, besides
causing the issue of drastic regulations, actually did,
at a time when the death-rate from influenza was
below normal, was to caution the public against
panic, pointing to statistics which certainly did not
justify pessimism. As an authority on bacteriology
of nearly six weeks’ standing, who has endeavored
to form his opinion by examining facts' and figures,
rather than by measuring' the space devoted to them
in the daily press, I am unable to see that pessi-
mism is even now justified. The brand of influenza
which afflicted Maoriland accounted for 5959 deaths
in under three months; the Victorian brand in
rather over half that period—January 1 to February
13—has been responsible for only 253. Unless the
epidemic lasts longer than have similar outbreaks
elsewhere, Victoria is in no danger of achieving a
record year as regards ’flu mortality. In 1891,
when the population was only 1,134,000, compared
with the present 1,421,280 (this estimate was made
in September last), and when deaths from pneu-
monia, bronchitis and other diseases of the respira-
tory system originating in influenza were not in-
cluded in the ’flu figures, the mortality was 1035,
and in 1895 the deaths numbered 963; but on
neither of these occasions was a scare worked up
comparable with that which exists to-day. When the
present trouble has subsided many citizens, who are
now too jumpy to look at the matter calmly, will
begin to wonder to what extent the work of the
germ was aided by the publicity given to its efforts,
and the resulting orgy of sniffing, inhaling, mask-
wearing, inoculating, spraying and gargling. When
the disease struck America the life of the community
went on as usual. Places of amusement were closed
in some cities (New York was not one), but when
the trouble was over, Dr. James W. Inches, Health
Commissioner for Detroit, addressing a convention
of the American Public Health Association, asserted
that such measures had proved useless. “It was all
right to try these things,” he remarked, “and the
public will not condemn us for admitting their
failure, as the situation was unprecedented, and we
had to experiment. I can only say that the
psychological effect on Chicago’s 100,000 neurotics
of the shutting-down of all amusements was tre-
mendous. These nervous people shivered with fear,
as was natural in the circumstances, and so lowered
their powers of resistance that they fell an easy prey
to the disease. What earthly good can closing down
a few scattered places do when crowds rub shoulders
in the streets, cars and department stores?” In Mel-
bourne the theatres are closed, while night after
night during the hot spell trams and trains going
to the seaside have been packed almost to suffoca-
tion ; lofty hotel bars are shut, while low-ceilinged
underground restaurants and tea-rooms, in regard to
which no attempt has been made to enforce the
regulation limiting an assemblage to 20 persons, are
crowded daily. The only proved effects of the pre-
cautions to date have been, to deprive 4000 employees
in the amusements and booze industries of their jobs ;
and to enable the medical profession and the drug
trade to reap a rich harvest as the result of shame-
less profiteering. When a much more virulent form
of the disease reached England last year theatres,
picture-shows and dancing halls remained open, foot-
ball was carried on as usual under war conditions,
and although inoculation depots were established, the
Royal College of Physicians definitely refused to
express an opinion regarding the value of punctur-
ing. The soldiers had to take a daily dose of
quinine and inhale creosote and menthol.' Admittedly
an occasional disease-scare may do the public good,
by frightening it into leading a moderately healthy
life, but there seems small justification for the present
panic. A sense of proportion, such as Dr. Robert-
son shows signs of possessing, is not a bad thing to
have on the premises.
-v
The Eldest Son Fetich.
Before the trouble in England simmers
down there will probably be great re-
adjustment of the land question. Eng-
land is pre-eminently a place of big
estates—not so very large in area, but stu-
pendous in value. The best part of London
consists of a few estates built on by lease-
holders whose premises usually fall to the
ground owner when the leases expire. No-
body objects in quite the same spirit to
the pile of the man who made his own money
and didn’t bury it in land, for it has a habit
of dissipating, and it doesn’t accumulate by
the process of unearned increment. But
land increases in value because of the in-
crease of people, so that the more people
there are the more they pay merely for being-
people. , Even the unearned increment
wouldn’t matter so much in a country where
the estate of the late lamented was divided
b) law among his children, for so many
people would have a share of it that in
time it would become almost common pro-
perty. But in a land of Eldest Sons the
estates are too big and too few, and too
large a number of inhabitants are laboring
to make wealth for too small a number.
The existence of a peerage aggravates the
evil. Every Eldest Son of great possessions
is either heir to a peerage with a family
dignity to keep up or else he is a possible
peer_ whose chance of acquiring a family
dignity that must be kept up depends largely
on the size of his fortune. England in 1801
had about one person to every acres
making unearned increment—in other words
raising the rent and the cost of existence on
himself. Now it has rather over one person
to each acre, so he creates more unearned
increment and raises the rent on himself
with 4i times the old facility. In Australia
the Eldest Son tradition never took root,
partly because, in the absence of an heredi-
tary peerage, there is no inducement to pile
up wealth so that the first-born may buy
himself a title. The graduated land-tax
also sits on the chest of the land-hoarder,
and the reason why the revenue from it
Steadily diminishes is that it is doing the
work it was intended for, and reducing the
number of properties that are over the tax-
able value. Also, in a country where there
are 384 acres .to each person there isn’t
enough population to make much unearned
increment unless the scanty supply is hud
died into a few. spots by a villainous pro-
cess of premeditated congestion. Even a
very ordinary person, by his mere existence,
can raise the price of one acre pretty high,
but the idea of one person raising the value
of 384 acres suggests Atlas, who raised
all the world at once. The English land-
ownership trouble has been growing for
more than 100 years, and has become es-
pecially acute within the last 25 years. 11
has naturally' become mixed up with the
wage problem on account of the amount
which the- land-owners take out of the wage
fund, and the fact that the Eldest Son idea
tends to make big landowners"a permanent
and separate class instead of being rather
accidental folk who are liable to emerge
from the working class and equally liable
to melt back into it. And both these matters
have become mixed up with the housing
problem. The population of England has
doubled within the present writer’s life-
time, and now that it has become much more
dense over the whole country than it is in
many Melbourne or Sydney suburbs there
is quite a new housing problem. The whole
community has been shaken up through a
quarter of it taking to war or to the
making of war materials, and as it has to
settle down again there is a sort of feeling
that it might as well settle down on a
better basis. The English are really in-
vading their own country as they did a
long time ago, and sensible invaders like
to tidy up the old mess before they resume
housekeeping.


T!l e Farmers’ & Settlers'Co-operative Insurance Co. of A ustralia
Limited
* The Workmen’s Compensation Act imposes heavy liabilities on Farmers and
Graziers.
The Farmers’ and Settlers’ Cooperative Insurance Co. of Australia Limited
will accept their liability for a small premium.
It is to the best interests of the Man on the to support this cooperative
company.
Write immediately for particulars.
Head Offices 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. BRANCHES in VICTORIA AND SOOTH AUSTRALIA.
Is Australia under Martial Law?
Gunner Yates, M.H.R., was tried by
martial law this week. The charges were:
(1) Conduct to the prejudice of good order
and military discipline; (2) inciting to
mutiny. The first charge is practically
meaningless; it is pushed into every mili-
tary indictment on the second-barrel princi-
ple. If the prosecution misses on the crime
primarily charged, it is always possible for
the Court to oblige with a conviction and
sentence on the other—which embraces every
offence that a soldier below commissioned
rank can commit. The Bulletin is not,
however, concerned with the guilt or other-
wise of Gunner Yates. The interesting
feature of his case is the jurisdiction before
which he has stood his trial. In the United
Kingdom no alleged offence which can be
heard before the duly-constituted courts Of
the land is any more triable by court-
martial. A cable published last week men-
tioned that the Chamber of Deputies had
introduced a similar wise reform in France.
Why? For the identical reasons stated in
The Bulletin a couple of weeks ago. Trial
by court-martial is, at best, the roughest
sort of justice. Military courts are subser-
vient to the civil courts, even in war-time,
and are tolerated only by the civil law ns
a matter of necessity. So lightly are their
proceedings regarded that pleas of autrefois
acquit and autrefois convict, which are com-
plete answers as between civilian courts,
are not accepted by a civilian court as from
a court-martial. The most casual glance at
the constitution of a court-martial is suffi-
cient explanation. The Judges are soldiers.
The prosecutor is a soldier. And there is no
jury. An innocent man has always an even-
money chance of a conviction before a court-
martial. It is not that the court is likely
to be corrupt; it simply is not adequately
trained for its highly technical job. And to
complete 'the anomaly, this court, which is
the likeliest of all to make a mistake, is the
only one wielding such powers from which
there is no appeal. The offence with which
Yates was charged is in no sense an ex-
clusively military one: it is an ordinary
common law misdemeanor, and as such
triable by the ordinary criminal courts of
Australia. If he is acquitted he will still
remain liable to an indictment and trial by
the civil authorities. If he is convicted and
an attempt is made to punish him, the feel-
ing wall be general that, had he been tried by
Judge and jury, he might have gone scot-
free. If the enemy was at our gates, the
courts closed and the Judges in hiding—in
short, if Australia was under martial law—
there would be justification for trying citi-
zens on the drum-head system. As things
are, inhabitants of the Commonwealth, both
in and out of uniform, retain their citizen
rights, one of the chief of which is that
of being tried on any criminal charge before
a jury assisted by a Judge trained in impar-
tiality as well as in law.
Cutting Down Their Own Wages.
Great is the art of cutting down one’s own
wages'! On the South Coast (N.S.W.)
coalfield a rule has been made at some of
the mines that no man must earn more than
14s. 2d. per day, lest there shouldn't be
enough work to go round and lest stocks
should accumulate and give the employers a
reserve with which to hold out in strike
time. The Blackball miners in Maoriland
have struck even worse luck. Their union
has ordered them not to earn more than 11s.
per day, and as 20s. or 225. per day was
quite common, this means that they have to
reduce their earnings by one-half and cut
down their scale of living accordingly. As
a branch of the same subject it is stated
that for four months past the average wages
of Sydney wharf-laborers have been 30s. per
week. This was in the piping times of the
armistice. Even if 50 per cent, is allowed
for exaggeration the figure is wretchedly
poor. The work is very well paid, hut there
are far too many men competing for it, and
the long waiting for short jobs is disastrous.
The struggle is wild and breathless for em-
ployment in simple industries such as the
digging up of the country’s irreplaceable capi-
tal, and for useless beast-of-burden indus-
tries such as the shoving of raw materials
on board foreign ships to be made up by
wiser people, and the dragging of the fin-
ished products of more advanced people off
foreign ships. This country gladly pays £2OO
for imported clothes and thereby deprives
a citizen of more than six months’ skilled
and well-paid work in order that one man
of very little skill may have 15 minutes’
employment removing the goods from a ship
to a cart. A recent return showed that in
N. S. Wales during the period between 1911
and 1917 the number of people employed in
definite productive industries —agriculture,
pastoral work, manufacturing and mining—
diminished bv 7030. On the other hand, the
partially-skilled, unskilled, odd-job and para-
sitic or superfluous crowd and those who
were not directly productive increased by
50,107. These included persons supported
by Government loans, clerks, Government
officials, shopkeepers, wharf-
laborers and many other sorts. With 7036
less people to produce and pay for goods
and 50,107 more people to drag goods about,
it is quite natural that the individual dragger
should have so little work that his high
wage per hour pans out at very little per
week. Unless this country turns a lot of
its wharfies, and their sons who are pros-
pective wharfies, into artisans, it is quite
possible that they will by-and-bye have their
wages doubled and then only earn 15s. a week.
In these days to come four big men will be
unloading one boot-trunk to make the work
go round, and six ill-fed giants will trundle
one keg of imported food along the wharf,
and the whole 10 will wonder why this
bright new country supplies the worker with
so little sustenance.
From William Webster: —
The footnote to my reply is a further illustration
of the questionable methods of The Bulletin,
which now shelters behind “W.P.,” just as he shel-
tered behind the shield of anonymity. Of course,
neither “W.P.” nor the writer of the footnote has
the courage to attach his full name, so that the
public might judge the type of man behind the
moonlighter’s gun. The assertion made in the foot-
note that “W.P.” didn’t complain that Webster cen-
sored a telegram is pure camouflage. Further, as
regards the inference that I should have informed
the senders or addressees that the telegrams could
not be sent, such is, as The Bulletin well knows,
not my business. I am not the Censor; and for
the same reason the money could not be returned.
The closing remark as to my state of mind comes
well from a source capable of cramming so many
deliberate lies into so small a space, and contempt-
ible enough to publish them. I have not time to
say all I think about the type of mind required
to provide the copy under review—it is literally
putrid.
Here are the facts. A man lodged several
wires at a telegraph-office. They were
accepted and paid for. The telegrams were
censored. Webstert had nothing to do with
that. Our correspondent didn’t say he had.
What the correspondent did complain about
was that, though Webster’s Department
hung on to the money, neither sender nor
addressee was informed that the telegrams
had not been sent. The Bulletin joins its
correspondent in calling that dishonest.
Webster may think such a charge “literally
putrid.” So much the worse for Webster’s
ethics.
—-
The game never seems to smell high to the
Vic. Government where the produce-agent is
concerned. A Shepparton fruitgrower testi-.
tied thus the other day:—
A Western District agent, acting on my behalf,
returned the low price of ss. and 6s. per case of
peaches, less commission, haulage, freight, etc., or
at a profit of jjd. per lb. Curiously enough, another
agent, operating for me in the same market at
the same time, returned Bs. and 10s. per case, or
at a profit of Id. per lb.
When this fruit was sold medium peaches
were retailing in Melbourne suburbs at 6d.
a lb. —but that is another matter. The re-
markable thing is the tranquillity with which
the fruitgrower submits to being beaten out
of his profits. By a simple system, on the
lines of that applied to the dealings of the
Stock Exchange, he could be amply pro-
tected. It should be made a rule that no
sale can be effected at a .produce auction
without the transaction being entered by an
independent official in an official book, giving
the name of the seller and buyer, the identi-
fication-marks of the goods and the prices
realised. The right of a Government repre-
sentative to examine any transaction, on
demand by the grower, should settle the
matter. The Stock Exchange does the trick
even without the help of the Government.
What possesses the Lawson Ministry that
it doesn’t get busy on such a plan at once?
+
There’S another American woman writer
in Sydney, Lena Louise Douglas ; and
this is her reply to the first one, Alma
Whitaker (B. 13/2/T9) :—•
I am a Canadian. I lived years in California,
most favored spot of Uncle’s counti'y. Now I’m
back in Australia for the second time. To me your
vigorous independence of thought and method, your
way of tackling old problems in a new way—and
getting ’em settled, if not perfectly at least nearer
that than in any other place I know —appeal most
strongly. I don’t mind your “three and four
pubs in every city block.” I know that if you
decide that’s not what you want you’ll alter it,
as you’ve altered bigger things. I don’t think
you’re the kind to allow your national character —
immortally blazoned to the world by the Anzacs
—to be sacrificed on the altar of foreign fanaticism,
whether that fanaticism be Prohibition, Mormon-
ism—or Wilsonism.
I have disturbing mental pictures of the drug
fiends of San Francisco; pictures ghastly, hideous.
I’ve been wondering, if America was such a drug-
cursed country .when her people could get liquor,
what’s she going to be now. Alma Whitaker
says she’s seen more drunken men in three weeks
in Sydney than ever before in her life. I saw more
drunks in “dry” Vancouver in three weeks than
I’ve seen in wet Sydney in three months. And
Vancouver is about an eighth of Sydney’s size.
Personally, I’d rather have a dozen “alcoholic
males around the htmse” than one wowser. I
don’t mind men so that they be males and not
this dubious intermediate sex that is growing up in
the too-softening shade of modern maudlinism.
America seems determined, though she came into
the war last and paid least of war’s stern price,
to force her ideas of peace on a reluctant world.
Now, apparently, she has decided —also late in the
day—-that because she has become virtuous there
shall be no more cakes and ale. But, then, an
American admiral, on the eve of his country’s
entry into the Big Game, remarked that “Uncle
Sam is now a perfect lady.”
South Aus. has already had one inquiry
into its wheat scandals, which Commission
had to be disbanded, because it turned out
that some of the commissioners, who were
also members of the Wheat Board, had to
inquire into their own doings. The lesson
as to how not to do things ought to have
taught the Government some sense. But the
new Commission, which was supposed to be
pure merino, seems to be almost as question-
able as the old one. Recently the chairman,
Angus, M.P., had to protect one of the wit-
nesses—Nicholls, manager of the wheat
scheme—from one of the members of the
Commission, who is the son of the Minister
who was for some time in charge of the
scheme. The stormy passage occurred when
Nicholls said that the Minister wanted to
see the questions which the Commission was
going to ask him (Nicholls), and censor
the answers. Whether what Nicholls said
is true or not, how did the son of a Minister
whose work was to come up for review get
on the Commission?
Dr. Cumpston, Director of Quarantine,
says now that the ’flu we have is
the ’flu we have had for the past
three or four months —which we had,
in fact, all the time that Dr. Cumpston’s
department was blandly accepting the
hysterical praises of Sydney for keeping the
thing out! In fact, didn’t Dr. Cumpston
accept an increase of salary as a sort of
THE NIGHTMARE.
FAINTHEART: “Well, wot if I didn't go? I’ll
bet I DREAMT worse things about the
war than you, ever saw.”
grateful offering for his department’s suor
eess? He doesn’t get more than about half
enough money now, if he is the right man
for the job; all the same, it is a pity the
truth —which Tiie Bulletin hinted at sev-
eral weeks ago—wasn’t admitted at the time :
that ’flu of an unusually violent type was
already in the country, and that' most of the
nonsense talked about the almost-miraculous
success of the Quarantine Department was
flam.
Melbourne detectives brought off a scoop
the other day. Three men had been spotted
taking stock of the daily passage of a bank
clerk carrying money from one branch of
the E., S. and A. Bank to another. The
“demons” posted themselves and waited for
the crooks to make their dash. They made
it —two in front of the man with the money,
one behind; but before tliey could “pass
him one” they were covered with revolvers.
One bird made a run and chanced what
came to him—a bullet in the back. The
footpads’ working plant consisted of a loaded
hose, a length of metal pining and a re-
volver. Sending an unguarded bank clerk
abroad with a bagful of good money seems
like calling tenders for a rock in a sock or
some such trifle.
At the very first attempt President Wil-
son’s policy of grandmotherly conciliation
towards the Hun failed badly. The leaders
of the Reign of Terror movement in Russia
art nearly all Germans of one sort or
another, and mostly suspected of working in
German interests. An invitation was sent
at Wilson’s instigation to the Bolshevik
Government and the various Russian Gov-
ernments to send delegates to a conference
of their own and try to compose their differ-
ences. The sundry Russian Governments
refused to meet the terrorist leaders. But
the Bolsheviks accepted, and advertised, the
business to the ignorant masses as an invi-
tation to meet the Allied envoys on equal
terms, a recognition of them as the sole
Government of Russia, and a sign that the
Allies were beaten, and had to ask for peace.
French papers and politicians, fearing
this, objected to the scheme from the .first,
wherefore there is talk in some U.S. circles
about moving the Conference to a neutral
country where Wilson will be more re-
spected. It isn’t permissible to disrespect
Wilson.
A lady in Medindie (S.A.) put up a note-
worthy achievement on February 4 —she
welcomed a quartette, all boys. They were
alive and well at birth, but one died the
following day. The mother had three on
a previous occasion, one of whom, a girl, is
living.
From the date of the embarkation of
Australia’s First Division to February 8
of this year 58,035 dinkum Diggers gave
their lives for the good of Humanity.
Another couple of hundred, reported “miss-
ing,” may be added to the roll. Maoriland’s
sons who fell in the same cause totalled
16,302.
Dear Bulletin, —I don’t think much of
this outbreak in N. 8. Wales. If I was a
plague and could do no better than that I
would give up the business and start a
Sunday-school.—Yours, etc., Horace Cheese-
Otago (M.L.) will not seem the same
place now that old Donald Reid is dead.
He was one of the earliest settlers in that
community of sturdy Porridgeterians. After
long years as a successful farmer and
politician he founded the big stock and
station agency of Donald Reid and
Co. in Dunedin. His partner in that
enterprise was his son-in-law, Tom
Fergus, who used to address Mr. Speaker in
a basso voice which might have been heard
four blocks away, as he related how capital
was leaving the country under the Ballance
regime.
An unobtrusive worker for the Church of
England in Wellington (M.L.), Archdeacon
Thomas Fancourt, went west the other day.
Fifty-four years of the 79 which made up
his life-span were spent in Wellington, and
there is no record that in all that time he
ever made any violent scramble for the lime-
light. He had intended to settle in India,
but his health gave way, and he w T ent on to
M.L.’s windy city, where he was ordained
a deacon in 1865 by old Dr. Abraham, the
first Anglican bishop of AVellington. Fan-
court’s big w T ork was to control the General
Church Fund, which he helped to establish
in order that the richer parishes should help
the poorer to pay the stipends of the clergy.
The M.L. Government, in appointing R.
W. McVilly as general manager of its rail-
ways, has reverted to the policy followed in
3 895 of promoting a man from its own
department to the top billet. Thomas
Ronayne was appointed from the service in
that year, when the system of control by
commissioners was abolished. Later on,
when the position was again vacant,
some foreign-trader weighed in with
the proposal that it would be a great
thing to send to England or some-
where, and E. H. Ililey was imported.
Hiley, who was expected to develop the
service on a skimped vote, is returning to
the Fog shortly. McVilly lias grown up in
the M.L. railway service, and was a clerk
in Ronayne’s day. Then he became chief
clerk, and was assistant-general-manager
when Hiley directed.
Wlien the League off Nations gets down
to details, the question of the franchise on
which its legislators are elected will be of
importance. Theoretically it seems right
that each State should elect its representa-
tives as it pleases. In practice, if Germany
is represented by Junkers returned on a
high property qualification, and they help to
govern democratic France, the latter coun-
try might almost as well elect Junkers
itself. If the members of the League Parlia-
ment are chosen by the State Parliaments,
then everything will depend on how those
Parliaments are elected. The United States
Congress, by the way, is elected on 48 dis-
tinct franchises, each State making its own
within limits. No color or racial line may
be drawn, but qualifications of residence,
education, tax-paying ability, etc., are of all
sorts. The Democratic party, which Presi-
dent Wilson represents, has a great strong-
hold in the South, where the big nigger
population is, and but for the elaborate dis-
qualification of Citizen Sambo the strong-
hold would collapse and the party’s chances
of office would be rare. So the U.S. can’t
do much in the matter of a uniform fran-
chise till it sets its own house in order.


°fhe Ideal Beer for the Home
s 7o
Reed
LAGER-
Browed from Pure Malt and Hops,
TAKE NO OTHER .
FOR THE HORSEMAN
PEAPES' SOLID-HIDE LEGGINGS.
Peapes’ provide every requirement for the rider, and having
a clientele accustomed to the best quality, it follows that
every Peapes’ production will give reliable wear.
The “Puttee” leggings illustrated have a knee height of
IS inches, stout one-inch straps round legs, brass buckles
at tops and clips to prevent slipping. Correct blocking
and superior finish throughout. Sizes 13 to 17in. calf.
Black or Tan, Solid Hide 32/(i
Real Hogskin 42/-
Peapes ’ pay postage. Please state calf measurement.
PEAPES & C 0„ LTD.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 & 311 George Street SYDNEY.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
“Iowa” : “Peter” (B. 30/l/’l9) is off the
track when he says that Charles L. Swem,
Woodrow Wilson’s shorthand expert, is
“Pitman’s acknowledged speed king in
America.” Swem is a Gregg writer, and
at only 18 got his chance when he
was selected to accompany Wilson on his
first election tour. He delivered the goods
so well that when Woodrow became
President he appointed Charles L. as his
private stenographer, which job he has been
holding ever since. Tumulty’s private
secretary, Warren F. Johnson, and McAdoo’s
p.s., Joseph M. Shaffer, are also Gregg
writers. Wilson himself favors Pitman.
Just-dead T. R. Arthur, besides being a
nephew of Colonel Arthur, one-time Governor
of Tasmania, was a great-grandson of Mrs.
Mary Reibey, of some historic note in N. S.
Wales. All the sons of Mary Reibey
settled in Tasmania. Entally, where T. R.
Arthur died, was a 4000-acre grant to
Thomas Reibey, Mary’s eldest son.
Thomas Reibey, the third of the name, who
inherited Entally (he died 10/2/T2, aged
91), was an Oxford M.A. and reached the
dignity of Archdeacon of Launceston.
Retiring from the ministry, he entered the
Parliament of Tasmania, becoming Premier
, and Speaker.
“Pictures.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She is washing up dishes at home now
And cooking the dinner —all but.
She has no inclination to roam no-w
That her “world” and “the pictures” are
shut.
No more may she stare at that other
False world, for her dummies, are still;
Unmarried, she’s helping her mother.
Or, married, she’s mending for Bill.
No longer she wastes half her days now
In smothering darkness and heat,
Contemplating the Woman that Pays, now,
As shown on a Yankeefied sheet,
Where all life is pictured above her,
And nothing is true or alive —•
Where the glory and shame of all lovers
Are aped that a showman may thrive.
(Oh! the cunning impostors that screei
them,
To work unspeakable harm !
“Jest as if yer jest ackshilly seen ’em !”
As squawked by the girl from the farm.
Ask hundreds of fathers and mothers
To show what such teaching has done —
The runaway girl with her story;
The runaway boy with the “gun.”)
She is mending a sheet or a curtain ;
She finds it a novelty, too,
And she grows more uncertain —-or certain —
As to what a “reel hero” would do.
She is cutting Bill’s lunch in the morning ;
She has brushed the brick-dust from his
coat;
No more she regards him with scorning
As he plods down the hill to the boat.
He has stuck to his mates and the missis;
He has toiled in the city and bush —•
Where the heroes of smoodging and kisses
Much nobler than Bill and his “push”?
She is done with all flappers and' friskers,
She is thinking of Mum in her prime;
She remembers that Dad, in his whiskers,
Was different once on a time.
No longer the handsome wliite-slaver
Lurks round where the shadows are still,
Just to drop on her sudden and save her
From washing-up dishes—and Bill.
She arranges the plates on the dresser
She used to stick up anyhow.
Though she does not know it (God bless
her!),
Oh, she is a picture-girl now.
n.s.w.
HENRY LAWSON.
A Night with a Bishop,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bishop of London, who preached
last week at a service to cele-
brate the 131st anniversary of the
foundation of Australia, is very partial to
the Diggers. And so are thousands of them
to him. He is an odd, fascinating char-
acter, part actor and part mystic, with a
dash of the demagogue. Wherever he is
billed the Aussies crowd the early doors —
they know they will get good value for the
collection money. I heard him in 1916 at
Durrington, a slush-haunted town of Arm-
strong huts near Amesbury (Wilts.), the
audience being a couple of thousand Austra-
lians and a coi*ple of hundred A.S.C.
Tommies. .
It is a memory of perfect art —on the
histrionic side. Up the aisle of standing
soldiers strides the Bishop, followed by a
little retinue of parsons. He is in uniform
and wears a number of war-ribbons. The
Tommies told us that he dashed over to the
first Expeditionary Force, when things looked
very bad, and stayed till after the Marne.
He is very tall —perhaps six feet two or
three —very erect, and emaciated. His head
and face are lean as those of a thoroughbred
horse, and his round broad skull, delicate
nose and wide, thin mouth are typi-
cally ecclesiastical. His eyes are small and
so deeply set that when he laughs—which is
often—they close up and disappear from
view altogether.
His gestures nnd deportment are the last
words in studied effectiveness. The General,
who is awaiting him on the platform, hurries
forward. Beside the Bishop he looks a
clod; and yet he is a fair, average General.
The General’s A.D.C. is presented; also a
perspiring A.S.C. private, who is destined,
presently, to do dreadful things to the piano.
The ceremony vaguely suggests newcomers
to Heaven meeting God.
The Bishop sits down. His clerical body-
guard drapes itself about him. The A.S.C.
man goes to the piano. Dumbly, ha turns
his steaming, purple face towards the Bishop.
The latter crosses his legs, leans back, and
lightly waves his hand. It is a beautiful
and inimitable movement —a license and a
benediction in one. A crash of asthmatic
discords follows. The air of a famous hymn
fights its way out. The soldiers burst into
lusty song. ‘The Bishop’s face expresses
beatitude. It is at the same time plain to
the roaring warriors that he is thinking great
thoughts. He frowns, placing the tips of
his fingers to his brow. No! the ideas will
not come! With a dramatic gesture of dis-
missal he waves the subject aside, and cross-
ing his arms looks pensively at the ceiling.
It is all done without a trace of self-
consciousness. His hands are wonderful—-
long, very -white, very slim, each filbert nail
looking as if it had been chosen for perfection
from the ends of the earth. I glance at the
THE FRIENDLY CRITIC.
Excuse (hie) me, missus, but ’aven’t yer gotcher (hie) mask too ’ igh?”
extremities around me. mere formless pay-
and weapon-hooks, and flinch.
As a preacher the Bishop fails to live up
to his appearance. I have been told that it
is always so —-that he was not “talking down”
to us. His subject was “Purity” and its
influence as a war-winner—his main argu-
ment being that the basis of purity was
religion, and that nothing but religion was
going to stop the Chinese from arming and
starting another war ! The whole was inter-
spersed with arch little parsonical jokes.
It made me think of Johnson’s dictum:
“There is something peculiarly exasperating
about the merriment of clerics.” There
were several jests on the subject of his “dog-
collar,” and one about an atheist who asked
him publicly who Cain’s wife was. The,
Bishop replied: “So far as I know, Mrs.
Cain.” We could see that this was a par-
ticularly good one by the discreet convulsions
into which it threw the attendant curates.
Turning from gay tp grave he told a story of
a fashionable young Londoner who had
shared his last sandwich in the trenches with
a cabby. “Fancy,” the cabby was supposed
to have sa’d —“Fancy one of them knuts
doing that for the likes o’ me!” This yarn
was a frost, the facial expression of the
A.S.C. —who, having the cushiest jobs, are
naturally among the most Bolshevik in the
army—being particularly cynical. The rest
of his stories were about his work in the
slums of Bethnal Green.
The Bishop has had one romance: he was
engaged for years to Lady Ulrica Duncombe,
whose lovely face may be seen, in counterfeit,
in the Sydney Gallery. The engagement
ended. Watching him at Durrington it
occurred to me that the lady might have been
fascinated by his looks and voice and trans-
parent goodness, and, later, disillusioned by
his methods. He overdoes the “Hail fellow
well met” business. He gave us to under-
stand that in Bethnal Green he used to slap
workmen on the back and call them “pal”
and “matey.” A harmless way of indicating
a democratic spirit, no doubt, but it never
could have been in the picture. H. G. Wells
spikes such a type of bishop on the pointed
end of a phrase —he calls him a Lark.
The Bishop of London as a humorist and as
a Salvation Army democrat is a Lark. I
watched him chatting and smiling, his arm
round th-e guilty pianist; and again his
hand on the A.D.C.’s shoulder; and I felt
that the “business” was all wrong. He
belongs rightly to the aloof company of
mediaeval prelates or of moderns like Glad-
stone, Manning or Henry Irving. Still he
is a great showman. Father Vaughan, by
comparison with him, is as crude as a figure
from some provincial melodrama.
JOHN POLDING.
Influenza Rhymes.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MISSING FRIENDS.
The mincing musical-comedy mime,
In flannels of spotless white,
With his wondrous tie.
Like a summer sky,
Is blessedly lost to sight,
Like the hard-worked comic wight,
Whose gagging was wont to bore us.
It is better so,
But we’d like to know
The whereabouts of the chorus.
The pen of the bold publicity man
Still writes of the gaudy “stars” —
How they work and play
And employ each day
Is told in a dozen pars.
Their pearls and their motor-cars
By the press are kept before us,
But none will provide
The address where hide
The girls of the beauty chorus.
It is nice to know that Shakspeare has
Quite captured Miss Starbright’s heart;
That a noble mime
Now devotes her time
To playing a nurse’s part;
While another studies Art.
There yarns are provided for us;
But where and how
Are they living now,
The sirens who form the chorus ?
Do boarding establishments house the charms
Which once to our gaze were bared—
The lips and the teeth,
And the legs beneath,
At which in the past we stared,
And with expert eye compared ?
While the present cloud hangs o’er us,
We’re hoping each limb
Will be kept in trim—
We insist on a well-shaped chorus !
VICTORIA,
HARRISON O.
AS IN FLORENCE.
They are talking outside in the night
On the lawn, in the light of the stars,
The girls in their dresses of white,
And the men with their pipes and cigars.
While they gossip of fashion and gold,
And of music and drama and such,
I’m thinking of Florence of old,
And of Something that killed with a touch.
Ah, the damsels and youths of that day—■
Did they find life a fragrance, a flower,
And put care and trouble away,
Thinking not of the Day and the Hour?
Did they kiss, finding death in a kiss?
Did they jest in the gape of the grave?'
Perchance, for the moment brought bliss,
And the moment is precious to save..
But of Florence, what boots it to dream?
Here and now—is the moment not sweet ?
What's that ? ’Tis a motor-lamp’s gleam
And an ambulance speeds through the street!
N.S.IV.
RODERIC QUINN.
SAFETY FIRST.
“An ‘innocent kiss’ may as fruitful a source
of danger as half a dozen glasses of whisky....
If young people must kiss let them do it on
sanitary lines through sterilised germ-proof gauze.”
—Melbourne Pastor Bruce.
It was a wise young minister
Who called our class together.
He said the kiss was sinister,
Especially in such weather.
He asked his pupils: “When’s a germ
Most dangerous ?#* and hissing
W T e answered: “Influenza germ
Is deadliest in kissing!’
The use of strong carbolic stuff
He instanced as a duty,
Worse things than alcoholic stuff
Lurked round the lips of beauty.
With chloride he equipped us then:
He drenched the mouth of Carrie;
With pungent eucalyptus then
He sprayed the lips of Harry.
With thickest gauze he masked the pair
(They stood as our example) ;
Of creosote he asked the pair
To use a measure ample.
“Now, Henry, if you care to kiss,
She’s safely disinfected.
Her visage you may dare to kiss
Here in the glass reflected.”
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.
A LET-OFF.
Though “We’re fighting the ’Flu,” say the States,
one can’t smother
The feeling, somehow, that they’re fighting each
other.
So we say, “Thank the Lord, on this present occa-
sion
It’s only a germ, not a German, invasion!”
VICTORIA.
E.T.


No-fwiMC, vv/«ONC
ABOUT Thl f^EWCLU
,6r< v WA ''^
Must prepare poa
. THp TFOUmPWAinT
RRIVAt,
WHO OP 1
/SuSTRaUA '
CRaad Rfcfpt,
' N-C. P * IPN •
a CiR u 5
/Si o BAM O S
/NO FLAGS
/sq SPeiecHEi*
/NO Reccpt lONS
/so PR £ SEntat
/no s
/'vi < > \AI RfATM or
CIIMLEAVEi
K
a Blanisy Anything
rotted !
fd
BILLJIM BLUEGUM COMES HOME.


LEAD
British Owned and Controlled.
SILVER
The Bro Ken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
Smelting Works : Port Pirie, S.A. Coke Works : Bellambi, N.S.W.
Branch Offices:
LONDOM ; 8-9 Austin Friars, E.C. 2. ADELAIDE: 62 Brookman’s Building. SYDNEY: 25 O’Connell Street.
PRODUCERS OF
Soft Pig Dead Corroding Read
Antimonial Lead Chemical Dead
Assay Lead (liar and Granulated)
Refined Silver (Har and Granulated)
Linotype Metal, Litharge,
Antifriction Metal
BUYERS ON A SPECIALLY
FAVORABLE TARIFF OF
Silicious Silver-Lead Ores
Calamine Ores (High Grade?
Slags, etc., containing silver or lead
Lead Drosses, Zinc Drosses.
Registered
BHAS
Brand.
LITHARGE
All Enquiries to
be addressed to
the Secretary.
ANTIFRICTION
LINOTYPE
METALS
PIONEER" leather Beltiag
The most efficient and economical power transmitter.
SOLE .
MAKERS
J. C. LUDOWICI <a SON LTD.,
PIONEER WORKS, 117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
“ THE STEEL OF THE FUTURE.”
Steel Castings for Mines
TRUCK WHEELS. HAULAGE ROLLERS. ROPE PULLEYS.
PINIONS & GEARS. ROPE CLIPS.
Our 12in. dia. Truck Wheels weigh 281 b.
Under Test they Withstand 19 Tons on the Tread before fracture.
Austraiian Electric. Steel Ltd.,
ALEXANDRIA, SYDNEY.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
The N. S. Wales financial and trading
public has been very patient; but its patience
can be tried too far by those who are in charge
of the public health. Business, which had
quite enough to put up with in the drought,
has been knocked flat. And the things that
are doing it are for the most part purely
experimental. A month ago, for instance,
the one road to salvation was inoculation.
The process was boomed night and day.
Yet hardly anything is heard about inocula-
tion now. The plain truth, of course, is
that medical opinion “went cold” on inocula-
tion, if it was ever warm. What does our
best medical opinion say about; the other
experiments which are smashing the business
of the community, throwing tens of thous-
ands out of work, probably doing permanent
damage to the health of many and certainly
ruining numbers of small, struggling traders'?
If the best medical opinion we have approves
of the N. S. Wales Government regulations,
well and good. But the people ought to
know who gives that sanction and what it is.
The things that are alleged in justification
have mostly been valueless. For instance,
we are told what “America” did. Mostly
America did nothing of the sort. Take the
subject of masks, which is by no means the
most contentious subject. The present writer
passed from one side of North America to
the other —from New York through Montreal
to Vancouver. It was at the height of the
’flu epidemic there, in October and November.
Yet except at one or two small townships
in central Canada he did not see a mask.
It may be that masks ought to be worn. But
the public, in view of the losses and dis-
advantages which this and other regulations
entail, ought to have the highest definite
medical opinion that the various restrictions
imposed are essential.
*** * *
The New Zealand Insurance Co. :
Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves. serves.
Nov., £ e £ .e v
1907 91,711 10 p.c.=30,000 61,711 398,497
1908 78,619 10 ~,, 30,000 3,231 45,388 443,885
1909 41,134 10 „ „ 30,000 11,134 455,019
1910 66,745 12$ „ „ 37,500 157 29,088 454.107
1911 107,417 12$ „„ 37,500 12,654 57,263 541,370
1912 109,986 15 „ „ 45,000 8,932 56,054 597,424
Transferred to capital, £150,000 .. 447,424
1913 117,870 10 p.c.=45,000 2,773 70,097 517,521
1914 109,538 10 „ „ 45,000 64,538 582,059
1915 150,683 10 „ „ 45,000 34,573 71,110 653,169
1916 186,379 Ilf „ „ 52,500 . 171 133,708 786,877
Transferred to capital, £150,000 .. 636,877
1917 234,094 10 p.c =60,000 22,236 151,858 788,735
1918 203,639 12$ „ „ 75,000 1,428 127,211 915,946
Though the business has continued to be
exceedingly profitable, a little of the cream
has been skimmed by the Government. The
item of taxation (including payments to fire,
marine and accident associations) has run
as follows:
1914 .. ..£22,319 1917 .. ..£77,935
1915 .. .. 22,903 1918 .. .. 136,694
1916 . . . . 44,342
In 1917 there was a special appropriation of
£40,000; and for the past year an appro-
priation of an unknown amount —apparently
another £40,000 —to meet taxation contin-
gencies. At any rate, the balance-sheet
shows this year “Unpaid taxation, £80,000” ;
last year the corresponding item was “Taxa-
tion appropriation account, £40,000.”
Whether this is to provide for known taxa-
tion claims, or merely to put the co. on the
safe side in case of disputes or future unex-
pected calls, is not clear. But if the true
net profit for the year was only £202,211
shareholders haven’t much reason to call for
sackcloth and ashes. Theoretically, no
doubt, another little cut has to be made.
With every increase in the total premium
income something has to be added to the
reserve against unexpired risks. Last
year’s increase was £68,000. Probably 40
p.c. of that income was not actually earned
= £27,200. But there are circumstances to
set against that. The accounts are made
up to the end of November ; and just about
that time something happened which greatly
reduced the risk on a vast amount of the
co.’s business. Also, instead of the balance-
sheet showing something for “unadjusted
losses” (not included with the reserves), it
now shows a very much larger amount for
“unascertained losses.” It is probable that a
considerable sum of profit may eventually be
disclosed here.
The next table shows what progress the
figures made during the war : —■
Loss Expense
Rate. Rate.
Premiums. Losses. Expenses, p.c. p.c.
1895. . £267,917 £172,137 £79,203 64.2 29.6
1900 342,336 195,864 95,651 57.2 27.9
1905.. 425,991 273,698 111,677 64.2 26.2
1906. . 565,149 j } 129 ’ 361 IU - 9 22 ' 9
1910 605.509 1 391,321 172,593 64.5 28.5
1913 . 702,968 431,709 197,252 61.4 28.0
1914 699,310 435,397 202,125 62.3 28.9
1915!! 740,646 423,844 208,879 57.2 28.2
1916 924,790 548,552 245,930 59.3 26.6
1917!.’ 1.147,704 689,302 233,724 60.1 24.7
1918.. 1,215,087 644,232 387,798 53.2 31.9
‘General. +San Francisco disaster.
With those expenses have been included taxa-
tion. Excluding that item, here are the
figures: —-
a . Expense
Premiums. Expenses. Ratio.
1914 .. £699,310 £179,806 25.7 p.c.
1915 ~ 740,646 185,976 25.1 ~
-igi a 924,790 201,588 22.6 ~
1917 1,147,704 . 205,789 18.0 „
1918 .. 1,215,087 251,104 20.7 „
Since 1914 no less than £515,777 of extra
premiums have been got in at an additional
cost of £71,298, or less than 14 p.c. It
means, of course, that rates have m some
cases been pushed up ; in others that values
have increased, and with them the insui-
ance. But this is not going to last. lhe
co. will therefore probably not maintain its
present premium-income figures ; and while
the loss rate is for various reasons likely to
rise rather than fall, the co. will be extremely
fortunate if taxation does not remain high
for many years. Profits will therefore most
likely steadily fall back towards the old
normal.
Since taxation is going to be so much
higher it might be expected that profits
would indeed fall below the normal of pre-
war years. But there will be something to
correct that tendency. Consider this com-
parison :
1913. 1918.
British Government stock .. £43,560 £291,959
M.L. public securities.. .. 164,160 493,879
Australian ~ .. .. 73;215 131,979
African ~ .. .. 24,381 7,100
U.S.A. bonds .. .. .. 91,627 118,691
S. American bonds .. .. 41,040 48,378
Jap and other bonds .. .. 38,402 66,630
Mortgages.. .. .. .. 195,872 189,702
Freehold properties .. .. 332,849 422,376
Cash and agency balances, etc. 203,521 353,416
Total. . £1,208,627 £2,124,110
Against both totals there are certain liabili-
ties. In 1913 “sundry creditors and un-
earned premiums” were £94,483 and “unad-
justed losses” £120,373; total, £214,856. On
Nov. 30 last “sundry creditors and unearned
premiums” were £152,236; “unpaid taxa-
tion,” £80,000; appropriations for “unascer-
tained losses, £330,928; total £563,164.
Assume that the co. will pay out all the
£BO,OOO for taxation and all the £330,928 for
unascertained losses, there still remains
£1,560,946, showing a lay-by of £567,175
since 1913. If the co. earns only 4\ p.c. on
this, and if it earns no more than it used to
on the rest, then its interest ealnings will
still be £25,500 more than they were in 1913;
and that will pay a good deal of extra taxa-
tion. As a matter of fact, interest and rents
were last year £70,582, or £26,719 more than
they were in 1913. Practically this pays
the increased dividend, leaving all the under-
writing profit, much or little, to go to further
increase the already splendid security which
the co. offers its world-wide customers.
* * * *
Metropolitan Gas Co. (Melbourne) :
Works Written
Charged Off
Divi-. to Re- Stocks, Re-
Profits. Sends, venue. etc. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
(10 p.c.)
June, ’ll.. 97,255 42,860 21,333 26,855 583,087
Dec., ’ll.. 105,170 42,860 28,223 27,563 589,611
(11 p.c.)
June, ’12.. 109,437 47,147 28,923 27,627 595,351
(.12 p.c.)
Dee., ’l2. . 92,231 51,433 30,289 8,066 597,794
(13 p.c.)
June, T 3. . 100,121 55,719 25,228 7,500 609,468
Dec., ’13.. 111,473 55,719 29,664 8,940 626,618
June, ’l4. . 94,798 55,719 34,088 5,607 626,002
Premiums on new shares, £47,210 . . 673,212
Plant written down, £63,336 . . 609,876
Dec., ’14.. 114,703 58,969 46,897 7,872 610,841
Plant written down, £8,812. . .. 602,029
June, ’15.. 104,344 58,969 39,799 4,862 602,743
Premiums on new shares, £44,585 . . 647,328
Dec., ’15.. 110,675 62,219 28,574 7,488 659,722
June, ’16.. 97,280 62,219 23,146 10,242 661,395
Dec., ’16.. 103,535 62,219 28,908 7,371 666,432
June, ’17.. 95,256 62,219 13,866 13,838 671,765
Dec., T 7.. 86,026 62,219 19,404 7,301 668,867
June, ’lB,. 98,169 62,219 21,287 9,268 674 262
Dec., TB.. 107,029 62,219 31,450 12,754 674,868
“Works charged to revenue” may be to some
extent a set-off against depreciation ; but as
“repairs, maintenance and renewals” are
charged up in the ordinary way to working
account, it seems pretty certain that the
bulk of this other expenditure really forms
an internal reserve. This view is supported
by the following comparison —-
1908. 1918.
Total outlay charged to capital £2,149.842 £2,497,044
Half-year’s revenue . . . . 242,132 540,119
Revenue p.c. of capital outlay 11. 3 21.6
Thus, although only £347,202 spent in new
works during the past 10 years has been
charged to capital, the revenue for last
half-year was no less than £297,987 more
than it was in the corresponding half of
1908. Certainly a considerable part of
the improvement has been due to a very
remarkable increase in the revenue from by-
products. This shows the changes which
have taken place in that respect, the figures
representing the proportion of total rev-
enue : —-
1900. 1908. 1917. 1918.
Gas .. .. 82 p.c. 80 p.c. 78 p.c. 74 p.c.
Coke .. .. 12 „ 12 „ 12 „ 10 „
Tar, etc. . . 3, ~ 5,, 4,, 5 „
Sulphate ammonia 3 „ 3,, 6,, 11 „
The Melbourne co. seems, to be able to do a
lot better for its shareholders in this matter
of residuals than the Sydney cos. in the same
business. But, as was pointed' out in this
column recently, the N.S.W. cos. need not
worry much about by-products since a
too-accommodating law allows them to put
up their price for gas high enough to pay
the 8 p.c. dividend which is all they can
hope for at present. No Australian law is
as good as it ought to be which does not
offer a gas co. very material benefits from
the struggle to save the now largely-wasted
by-products.
The next table dissects the revenue and
expenditure for various years since 1900
Receipts.
1900. 1908. 1917. 1918.
Gas Sales .. £137,598 £193,564 £366,928 £399,792
Coke .. 20,121 30,392 55,302 54,934
Tar, etc. . . 6,119 11,361 22,166 27,240
Sulphate ammonia 3,788 6,810 27,826 58,145
Expenditure.
Coal . . 37,626 66,293 176,203 190,704
Other manufac-
turing exes. 21,196 38,988 82,425 87,653
Distribution.. 12,027 19.670 48,727 48,326
Management . . 8,814 11,817 23,553 33,785
Patriotic funds,
etc., & A.I.F.
pay .. 272 300 5,360 6,358
Rent & taxes .. 5,100 7,054 15,016 23,095
“Other manufacturing exes.” include repairs
and maintenance of works and plant, which
is a much larger item than wages paid for
labor employed in actual production. “Wages
at works” amount, in fact, to less than 5
p.c. of the total costs.
Share capital authorised is £1,000,000, of
which £42,790 remains to be issued; and
it is proposed to now sell shares to that
amount. At the same time a corres-
ponding amount of debentures will be
offered. A small part of this money will
pay off debentures falling due ; the balance
will be available to reduce floating debt. The
co. owed on December 31 £427.376 on vari-
ous accounts, but on the other side had
£581,630 in liquid and semi-liquid assets,
from which, however, the half-year’s divi-
dend has to be paid. There obviously won’t
be any trouble about paying the 13 p.c. on
the handful of extra capital.
* * * *
The New Zealand Refrigerating Co.,
Ltd., formerly the Christchurch Meat Co.,
one of the big freezing concerns of Maori-
land :—■
Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Oct., £ £££>£,
1907.. 53,811 8 p.c.= 13,005 17,500 23,306 77,643
1908.. 37,075 8 „ „ 13,203 19,024 4.848 82,491
1909.. 50,622 8 „ „ 13,43.3 22 265 14,924 97,415
1910. . 75,719 10 „ „ 16,915 23,560 35,244 132,659
1911.. 42,213 10 „ „ 16,915 15.000 10,298 142,957
1912.. 41,269 10 „ „ 16,915 15.000 9,354 152,311
1913.. 37,760 10 „ „ 16,915 20,000 845 153.156
1914.. 40,438 10 „ „ 16,919 30,000 146,675
1915.. 42,564 11 „ „ 18,615 23,949 170,624
1916.. 44,851 12 „ „ 20,307 24,544 195,168
Premiums on shares . . 31,400 226,568
1917.. 53,948 12 p.c.= 20,575 33,373 259,941
1918.. 66,479 14 „ „ 41,100 25,379 285,320
When comparing the past year’s profit with
previous performances, the increase in capital
must not be overlooked. Five years ago
paid capital was £173,186; the co. is now
fully paid to £300,000. On the other hand the
profits shown in the table prior to 1914 in-
cluded amounts set aside for renewals;
since then all cuts into working profits have
been made behind shut doors. The directors
used to disclose the gross profits after pro-
viding for depreciation, and also show how
much was swallowed in general exes, and in
rates and taxes. Nowadays shareholders
are told of the year’s record in one line :
“Profit after making provision for repairs,
renewals, taxation and sundry contingencies,
£66,430; transfer fees. £49.” In this way
the co. cloaks its obesity. Taking into con-
sideration that after the Maoriland Treasury
had probably demanded about 7s. 6d. in the
£, and that, after unspecified amounts had
been, set aside for depreciation and contin-
gencies, there still remained a profit equal to
over 22 p.c. of the capital, the past 12
months must have been exceedingly opulent.
During recent years the co. has expanded
with wonderful rapidity, and, partly on
account of the shortage of shipping, new
stores have had to be rushed up to carry
stocks. The result is that the book value
of lands, buildings and machinery has almost
trebled in three years. Because of the
abnormal conditions there have been big
changes in the other balance-sheet figures,
too: —•
1908. 1915. 1917. 1918.
Capital . . £109,820 £173,254 £258,130 £300,000
Debentures . . 160,500 150,000 150,000 150,000
Other liabili-
ties . . . . 76,614 307,385 1,031,280 1,149,625
Property, plant,
etc 361,699 273,522 651,605 800,211
Liquid assets 141,399 542,587 1,061,552 1,114,733
In 10 years capital and all other liabilities
have grown by £1,192,685. Meantime the
book value of property and plant has in-
creased by £438,512 and liquid assets by
£993,334. So, apart from any additions to
plant, etc., charged to revenue account, the
co.’s position has been improved by about
£239,000 in 10 years after paying dividends
averaging 101 p.c. p.a.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Mont de Piete Deposit and
Investment Co. (Sydney) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
June, 1911. . £6OBl 124 p.c.= £4BBl £l2OO £33,927
Dec., 1911.. 59Si 12A „ „ 4881 1100 35,027
June, i 912. . 6024 124 ~ „ 4882 1142 36,169
Dec., 1912.. 6468 124 „ „ 5410 1058 37,227
Premiums on new shares 2915 40,142
June, 1913.. 6972 124 p.c.= 6216 756 40,898
Dec.. 1913.. 8766 124,,,, 6571 2195 43,093
June, 1914.. 7531 124 „ „ 6640 891 43,984
Dec., 1914.. 5198 10 „ „ 5312 43,870
June, 1915.. 6594 10 „„ 5518 1076 44,946
Dec., 1915.. 7096 10 „ „ 5625 1471 46,417
June, 1916.. 6246 10 „ „ 5625 621 47,038
Dec., 1916.. 7000 10 „ „ 5625 1375 48,413
June, 1917.. 6897 10 „ „ 5625 1272 49,685
Dec., 1917.. 6740 10 „„ 5625 1115 50,800
June, 1918.. 8253 124 „ „ 7031 1222 52,022
Dec., 1918.. 7907 124 „ „ 7031 876 52,898
This 37-year-old co.’s accounts for the past
year show that the gross interest and other
earnings on the average of advances, mort-
gages, etc., were 21 p.c.; on the total of
shareholders’ funds employed in the business
the gross revenue represented about 18 p.c.
Before the war introduced greater risks, the
co. was earning about 14 p.c. less on its
loans. Taking all things into account this
return is probably not at all excessive. Still,
shareholders are doing ( very well; for the
12J p.c. dividend is equal to 8| p.c. on the
money they have in the business. Further, the
management has been proceeding cautiously
since the war, and has been risking nothing
outside its own money. In June, 1914, its
liabilities amounted to £14.171 —-made up of
a bank overdraft, £10,470; fixed deposits,
£3160, and sundry creditors, £535. Now all
liabilities (including provision for taxation)
amount to only £3842, the overdraft and
deposits having been repaid. Advances 4 \
years ago totalled £140,540; at December 31
last there was £143,225 in “mortgages,
pledges and other securities and War
Loans,” but how much was in the last item
is not mentioned. A review covering 10
years shows this progress:—
1908. 1918.
Capital .. .. £74,806 £112,500
Liabilities . . . . 9,134 3,842
Advances, etc. .. .. 93,873 143,225
Premises . . . . 20,822 " 27,766
Cash 963 5,280
If the assets were at both dates worth just
what was shown in the books, then the co.
has strengthened its position by over £22,000
apart from £6OOO-odd of premiums on new
shares. After shareholders have been
handed a div. of 11 p.c. p.a., an average of
about £2200 of profit has thus been left in
the business each year to provide for con-
tingencies and make the dividend more of a
sure thing.
* * * *
Sargents, Ltd., caterers, etc., of Sydney
and Melbourne, who started with a deficit of
£46,235, representing goodwill (£45,000)
and preliminary expenses :
. Towards
Reduction
Profits. Dividends. of Deficit. Deficit.
Dec., 1910. . £8,076 10 p.c. =£4500 £3576 £32,702
June, 1911.. 7,669 10 „ „ 4500 3169 29,533
Dec., 1911.. 5,528 10 „ „ 4500 1020 28,513
June, 1912.. 7,159 10 „ „ 4600 2559 25,954
Dec., 1912.. 9,308 10 „ „ 4700 4608 21,346
June, 1913.. 9,027 10 „ „ 4850 4177 17,169
Dec., 1913.. 9.412 10 ~ ~ 5000 4412 12,757
June, 1914.. 10,529 10 „ „ 5000 5529 7,228
Dec., 1914.. 11,453 10 „ „ 5000 6453 775
To Re- Re-
serves. serves.
June, 1915. . 8,680 10 „ „ 5208 3472 2,697
Dec., 1915.. 8,454 10 „ „ 5312 3142 5,839
June, 1916.. 9,524 10 „ „ 5312 4212 10,051
Dec., 1916.. 10,140 10 „ „ 5312 4828 14,879
June, 1917.. 8,158 10 „ „ 5312 2846 17,725
Dec.. 1917.. 6,057 10 „ „ 5312 745 18,470
June, 1918,. 9,734 10 „ „ 5312 4422 22,892
Dec., 1918.. 10,396 10 „ „ 5312 5084 27,976
There appears in the balance-sheet a new
item: “Taxation reserve, £7700.” This may
be a charge on the revenue of the half-year';
or it may be wholly or in part a contingency
reserve not previously shown in the accounts.
At present it is not reckoned with the
reserves, although as the directors propose
an appropriation of £5OOO for the same fund
out of the present P. and L. balance, there
will probably have to be an adjustment in the
table six months hence. The matter may
be of some practical consequence ; it may be
that this £5OOO is a provision for possible
future taxation, or it may be that the co.
is providing for known taxation actually
accruing. In' the latter case the profit
shown above is not all true profit. Austra-


The British Westinghouse Electric .& Mfg. Co., Ltd.
HIGH
As the
are in
W estinghouse
Bateau Impulse Typ*>
Steam Turbines
ECONOMY
SIMPLE DESIGN
STURDY CONSTRUCTION
largest builders of Steam Turbines in Great Britain, we
the position to give early delivery of Steam Turbines
and Turbo-Sets up to 20,000 Kilowatts.
rstinpiiousr
Manchester
Send enquiries to Head Office for Australia :
Queensland Buildi~g ; 84, William Street, Melbourne.
ftfifiMiriiiiuiiiiiiiiimtiiiiHiin
Particular attention is called to the comprehen-
siveness of the 1919 line of G.E. electric fans. The
features of construction, the operating efficiency,
the effectiveness of air delivery, the quietness of
operation, and the attractive appearance combine
to make G.E. electric fans the choice of discriminat-
ing buyers. Come in and select your fan. We
stock all sizes. Australian General Electric Com-
pany, Wentworth Avenue, Sydney; and corner nf
Queen and Little Collins Street, Melbourne.— Advt.
Water is a valuable asset in summer for drinking,
concentrating or boiler purposes. Why not use
Aluminoferric, and have it clear and crystalline?
Aluminoferric is thrown into the water as a solid
or added as a liquid. One pound clarifies from two
to three thousand gallons of most turbid water with-
in three hours. Write for full fact 3 to William
Adams & Co., Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Melbourne: 521-8 Collins Street. Adelaide: 96 Currie
Street. Brisbane: Corner Edward and Mary Streets.
Perth: 33 King Street. — Advt. [1
The latest copper-smelting plant to be erected in
Australia is that of the Mount Cuthbert Company
in North Queensland. It consists of buildings, power-
plant with boilers; generating sets and blowers,
blast furnace, copper converters and converter re-
fining plant,* blister gathering and cleaning shed,
also steel bins for ore and coke. Wherever possible
the plant is electrically driven. The whole of the
plant was supplied by the Austral Otis Engineering
Co. of Melbourne, who have made numerous smelting
plants working in Australia at present.— Advt. [2
Corroded pipes a thing of the past. Pioneer
Wood Pipe has made all the difference to the
engineer. He can now plan a permanent system by
specifying Pioneer Wood Pipe, which remains un-
changingly efficient throughout an unlimited length
of service. Send for illustrated catalogue. The
Australian Wood Pipe Company Limited (Head
Office, Burns Bay, Lane Cove). P.O. address: Box
1576 G.P.0., Sydney. Contractors to all State
Governments. —A dvt .
Australian PATENTS from P. M. NEWTON, Patent
Attorney, Fink’s Bids., Melbourne, op. Patent Office.
—Advt.
♦ * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, and 383 Flinders Lane, Melb. — Advt.
* * * *
“The greatest good to the greatest number,” is the
motto of Lottoid Hard Wall Plaster Sheets, for
ceilings, partitions and inner walls. Covers old
cracked walls and ceilings; fine for homes, offices
and stores. Combines permanency and positive
economy; no trace of fibre; will not rot or crack:
fire and vermin resisting. Made in 21 convenient
sizes. Spriggs’ Asbestolite Company, 338 Pitt
Street, Sydney.— Advt.
The manufacture of “Skandia” Crude Oil Engines
in Australia, both marine and industrial types, is
receiving the recognition that the enterprise deserves.
The Federal Government has placed an order for a
large marine set, and their example has been followed
by several of the largest trading firms in Australia,
Tasmania, the Pacific Islands and Dutch East Indies.
The workmanship of the Australian “Skandia” com-
pares with any imported engine on the market.
Write Nelson & Robertson, Loftus Street, Svdney.—
Advt.
* * * *
Road-graders' for building good roads, for making
and grading earth roads, cleaning out water tables,
making fire-breaketc , We carry large stocks of the
best procurable and most up-to-date machines.
Several different sizes stocked to be worked by 2, 4
or 8 horses or traction-engine power. Catalogues
and full particulars upon application. Arthur
Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay East, Sydney.
Queensland inquiries: The Australian Machinery Co.,
Mary Street, Brisbane.— Advt.
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collision & Co., 453 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. 11. B. Selby & Co.,
Ltd., 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street, Melb. — Advt.
T. H. Palmer, 8.E., Fel. Chem. Soc., etc., consult-
ing engineer, valuing, organising, technical advice,
mining, metallurgy, flotation and selective flotation
processes. Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 Pitt
Street, Sydney. Cables and Telegrams: “Remlap,
Melbourne. — Advt.
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Loss of Profits
Insure in
Tl “ LO.A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
CF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital .. £250,000
Subscribed Capital .. 194,235
Paid-up Capital .. 96,291
Income (Cross) 1917 .. 249,000
Established 1910.
AGENTS WANTED
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
YV. R. CAY'K, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
MOBEL-CLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel Gelignite Safety Fuse
Samsonite Blasting Gelatine Detonators
Gelatine Dynamite Dynamite Cartridges
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Pig Iron, Billets, Blooms, Steel Rails,
Structural Steel, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON—3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street
SYDNEY-25 O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
lian taxation departments—the Common-
wealth department in particular—are often
so behindhand with their work, partly
because of the absurdly complicated methods
of assessment, that cos. don’t know where
they are. In some instances —not this
one—little or no provision has been made for
War-time Profits Tas. This is a matter
which investors might inquire about when
considering a deal on the market in any
particular stock.
Sargent’s has done remarkably well during
the half-year, assuming that there is £10,396
left after providing for all taxes properly
chargeable to the term. With one exception
it is the largest profit shown. But. of
course, there is much more capital in the
business than there used to be. Seven years
ago the paid capital was £90,000; including
capital paid in advance of calls it is now
£20,000 more. And meantime £56,000 of
profit has been left in the business. Speak-
ing roughly, it seems that it takes about
£135,000 to make as much profit in this
business as £90,000 made, say, five years ago.
Fortunately for shareholders, the business,
despite this change, has been able to supply
the extra capital. Last year the lay-by was
equal approximately to 9 p.c. This is a
very comfortable margin to come and go on.
Now as to what has been done with the
new capital that has been got in and the
profits that have been put by. Go back six
years:— ■
1912. 1918.
Capital .. ..£94,000 £110,052
Liabilities . . .. 24,247 40,539
Freeholds . . . . 24,344 70,000
Leaseholds .. 20,900 17,800
Plant . . . . 39.560 55,930
Stock . . .. 8,094 25,442
Cash and liquid.. 8,703 ' 22,406
This shows that the greater part of the sav-
ings has gone into solid assets which don’t
depend for the bulk of their value upon the
profitableness of the- business. It is, how-
ever, the business which gives the fine
profits; and business success is a matter of
management. At any rate, it used to be,
and will be again when the world has got
over its present unrest.
* * * •
The Ballarat Trustees, Executors
and Agency Co. (Ballarat, Vic.) :
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1910.. £1913 12 p.c. = £9OO £lOl3 £17,357
June, 1911.. 1826 10 „ „ 750 1076 15,433
Dec., 1911.. 1907 12 ~ ~ 900 1007 19,440
Junp 1012 j 1838 10 ~ ~ i 50 1088 ( .e noa
’ ' ’ I Transferred to capital, £5OOO )
Dec., 1912.. 1732 12 p.c. = 1200 532 16,060
June, 1913.. 1528 10 „ „ 1000 528 16.588
Dec., 1913.. 1758 12 „ „ 1200 558 17,146
June, 1914.. 1610 10 „ ~ 1000 610 17,756
Dec., 1914.. 1878 12 „„ 1200 678 18,434
June, 1915.. 1488 10 „ „ 1000 488 18,922
Dec., 1915.. 1679 12 „„ 1200 .479 19,401
June, 1916.. 1503 10 „ ~ 1000 503 19,904
Dec., 1916.. 1656 12 „ „ 1200 456 20.360
June, 1917.. 1453 10 „ „ 1000 453 20,813
Dec., 1917.. 1771 12 „„ 1200 571 21,384
June, 1918.. 1673 10 „ „ 1000 673 22,057
Dec., 1918.. 2188 12 „ „ 1200 988 23,045
During the past 12 months the eo.’s trusts
have grown by £307,050, and the funds now
administered amount to £2,664,585, com-
pared with £1,369,749 in 1908. So far as one
can tell from this comparison (which cer-
tainly is not final) business has practically
doubled in 10 years. Put another way, the
co. has behaved itself so well and shown it-
self so much more efficient than the casual
friend-of-the-family type of trustee that,
speaking roughly, as much business has
come to it in the last 10 yeai*s as in the
previous 21 years. Finding the field limited
in Ballarat, a couple of years ago a branch
was established at Geelong. It seems to
have been a good move. Gross profits for
the past half were £5937 —£952 more than
for the last term before the extension. Ex-
penses have also climbed, but the net profit
is the best the co. has shown—over 21 p.c. on
the paid capital. So after paying a 12 p.c.
div. there is a big margin. There always
has been a substantial amount available for
reserves, which now exceed the paid capital
of £2O 000. Anything in excess of the
£20,000 is being stored in the P. and L.
account, to be tapped by-and-bye to provide
another ss. per share, making them paid to
the limit of 25s. —the remaining 255. being
held in reserve to protect clients. There is
now over 3s. in the pot. Shareholders’
funds are comfortably placed—over 80 p.c
is in gilt-edged securities, the rest in busi-
ness properties.
* * * *
The Union is the next bank out with its
increase-of-cap'tal scheme. Present paid
capital is £2,000.000 in shares paid to £25 ;
it proposes to issue another £500.000 at a
premium of £25. There isn't a great deal
in it for shareholders. The market quota-
tion lately has been about £62. at which
price the shares have returned £5 13s. p.c.
p.a. A holder of 20 shares will be entitled
to apply for five of the new issue, and this
(if the 14 per cent, dividend is continued)
will improve his return to -£5 17s. 6d. p.c.
Like most other Australian banks the Union
proposes to hold only an annual meeting in
future. The bank’s visible reserve fund will
be swollen by the premiums on the new issue
to £2,550,Cf 6 ; and there are some thousands
also in the P. and L. account, in addition to
internal (contingency) reserves. The share-
holders’ funds m the business thus amount to
over £5O. Incidentally, the Labor party, some
members of which have an idea that it would
be a fair thing to take over the private banks
at the face value of the shares, might do
worse than consider the history of this
bank, so far as issues of capital are con-
cerned. The shareholders will for the
present issue pay into the bank’s funds
double the face value; and on the last pre-
vious issue (1913) they paid £45 for their
£25 shares. In addition they are liable for
£5O per share for the protection of deposi-
tors in the event of a smash.
* * * *
Tongkah Compound got going in 1912 and
since then has shoved 4,231,281 cub. yds.
down the sluice boxes for 3076 s tons tin
oxide. It has collected £358,095 for the
tin won, of which £201,250 has been pouched
by the followers of J. S. Meagher and A. W.
Palfreyman. Considering liow slowly tin
advanced in comparison with other metals,
it isn’t all war-profiteering, especially as
overhaul and getting into new ground
meant that the very high market during 1916
and half of 1917 was missed. Since then fat
times have been the rule with the dredge in
lease No. 2214. This is the record :
Value Costs Profit
Half-year Cub. yds. cub. yd. cub. yd. cub. yd.
ended treated. d. d. d.
Sept., 1917.. 337,904 16.67 4.74 11.93
March, 1918.. 328,864 20.54 7.42 13.12
Sept., 1918.. 325,572 23.14 9.08 14.06
As a matter qf fact, the co., by averaging
341 b. ground last half-year, treated dirt hav-
ing a gross value of 31d. per cub. yd.
Whereupon the little Siamese put out his
hand for a 25 p.c. royalty, thus nipping in
£10,483 from the working crowd. Yet the
c-ry is that Siam isn’t civilised! Costs are
ghastly. In the old area expenses never
touched 6id. per cub. yd. Last term they
got above 9d., High cost of spares and sup-
plies and labor and freight all swelled the
bill. Even so, the six months saw £16,089
netted, and with the aid of cash in hand
£22,500 was distributed on the itching
palms. Since the books were closed the
plant has got out of lib. ground into 21b.
stuff; but this looks too good to last. Still,
with tin slithering back from £4OO to £220
per ton little windfalls of the kind help
wonderfully.
* * * *
Carpathia (N.S.W.) has resumed mining
work, and 16 tons of roasted ore averaging
about 20 p.c. tin has been sent to Barmed-
man for further treatment. The pipe line
from the tank to the local battery at Ardle-
than has been completed, and there is a large
accumulation of low-grade ore to operate on.
But the delay in getting the battery into
commission is very unfortunate in view of
the collapse of the market.
* * * . *
Flags are up in Bendigo because New
Golden Fleece has squeezed out a Od. divvy
after two years of toil among the big forma-
tions of the mine. Gold is being got north at
690 ft. where the pitch of the reef has flat-
tened a lot. As the last crushing went over
the half-ounce it looks as if the level is get-
ting into the run of gold which overhead
helped the co. on to its legs in the dizzy past.
Down at 750 ft. is another big make, hut the
material there isn’t so rich as in the 690 ft.
north. J. Harris is out to see if the junc-
tion of the Stafford reef with the one
which is being followed at 750 ft. means a
local enrichment, and he tips a run of fair-
grade stone from the western formation at
550 ft. In either case it is early to count
chicks. The sprat from the Fleece means
the re-opening of the old South Fleece. The
Frying Pan reef, whence most of the gold
has been got in this next-door mine, was
tested at 200 ft. and 300 ft. but never opened at
400 ft. This move shows how a lively market
helps the industry—a fact which people who
handle' applications for flotations at the
Treasury can’t or won’t understand.
* * * *
It looks as if Ajax, Daylesford (Vic.), may
have a profitable level at No. 5. A naughty
Blank came into the reef there, but the
news is that in the drive stone is making
again 3ft. wide. The next job will be to
see if the shoot carries up to No. 4.
Measured generously from No. 7 level up to
No. 5 Ajax looks to have a new shoot 3ft.
wide by over 260 ft. in length of lOdwt. stone.
This -may spell a run of 6d. divs. for months
to come, although Ballarat optimism in
respect to measurements always needs to be
remembered.
* * * *
Chairman Piggott waved the blackthorn
over the Mt. Cuthbert men who are accused
of going slow and making trouble. While
nothing is to be said in defence of these re-
actionaries, all the blame for the financial
plight of the show mustn’t be put on the
Cloncurry miner. Too abundant optimism,
financing wfitli bonds and overdrafts instead
of calling up capital, war costs out of all
reason, and delays in erecting smelter —all
these helped to tie up the concern. Then
when in blast the smelter never worked up
to its full stated capacity. The question
also may be put whether the most tactful
method of handling Australian labor has
been adopted by some of these Queensland
cos.’ officials. A little mental introspection,
as brother Higgs claims, might modify
Piggott’s sourness even in the face of the
co.’s run of hard luck.
Cloncurry shows are gradually resuming
work, but the high cost of railing ore from
widely distributed mines to a central
smeltery is a heavy burden. Some time
since manager Huntley, of Hampden, stated
that rail freights had been costing his co.
£9OOO per. month, or roughly £l5 per ton
of blister. The combined cost for freights
and wages was from £55 to £6O per ton.
*• * * *
Tyrconnel (N.QQ has had a battery
clean-up of 230 tons for £llB5. Fairly good ;
but it is disappointing to find a show
reputed to be so big handling so small a
tonnage. Nominal capital is £17,500 in
shares of 2s. 6d. each, and the issue of
113,500 shares are rarely quoted below par.
The opening up of the deepest level (370 ft.)
is being anxiously watched.
* * * #
Chillagoe debenture-holders have ratified
an agreement to sell the railway and mines
to the Queensland Goveiminent. Minister
for Mines Jones favors the working of the
mines on co-operative tribute lines. The
weak point of the tribute system is that it
doesn’t develop a mine—it only takes out
ore. And on Chillagoe the blocks of ore
take a lot of finding.
* * * *
Ivurrawang Woodline find is again being
noticed by the Perth papers. This time de-
velopments in Reed’s show are declared to
be very promising and its sale to an option
holder for £l5OO is said to be almost cer-
tain. When these puffs are printed in the
West it is generally time to look out.
* * * *
To settle all argument as to what the
Golden Ridge (W.A.) has done since the co.
pulled out last year the present owners—
working party of 10—supply the following
information: Paid the second-hand machin-.
ery dealer who bought out the co. £2700 for
property and plant; divided out of gold won
since the purchase nine months ago, £552
per man. They add that the mine looks well
and in their opinion will continue tb pay
for years to come.
* * * *
Anxious inquiries are being made in West-
ralia about the Yilgarn Consols. Some time
ago, when ’most everybody over there be-
lieved the mine to be down and out, two
experts from Melbourne appeared on the
scene and. revived the hopes of shareholders
by. reporting that one shaft was being re-
paired in order to get at stone worth £8 a
ton and that drives were about to be started
so as to 'open up ore ranging from £3 to
£l2 per ton. Local scrip-owners are won-
dering whether the values mentioned by the
experts are in the mine now, and would
like to hear from the directors on the sub-
ject.
Mt. Bischoff (Tas.) is handing out ss. a
share (£3000) as usual; but there is little
doing on the market in these shares. The
half-yearly accounts to December 31 disclose
a profit of £21.546. which compares indiffer-
ently with £27,401 for the previous term.
Dividends amounting to 325. 6d, per share
took £19,500, which is only £2040 less than
the profit. The smelter at Launceston
treated 2112 tons of concentrates for 1435
tons of tin. Bischoff s own lot was 138 tons
of metal.
Adelaide has decided to give the old
Talisker mine a fresh chance. Half a cen-
tury back it was worked for silver and lead
with success. . But it was insufficiently capi-
talised, and in 1872 the mortgagees fore-
closed. Snce then no work was done
ti!i last year; now it is being re-opened, and
the conscientious old-time timbering is
found almost as good as new.
* * * *
The Crystal Salt Co., which gets salt by
evaporating Spencer’s Gulf water at Port
Augusta (S.A.), is reaching out for some
of the higher branches of the trade. It
reckons to turn out the fine varieties of
table-salt and put them un to catch the
market. . While heaps of sun and mighty
little rain help on the evaporation at the
head of Spencer’s Gulf, the water is nearly
twice as salt as ordinary sea-water to start
with.
Adelaide School of Mines’ assays indicate
the turn which prospecting in S. Aus. has
taken. In 1918 the -number of gold assays
showed a large falling off from pre-war
years; and silver, lead and copper also ex-
hibit a reduction. On the other hand, in-
creased attention is given to alunite, clays,
giaphite, gypsum, limestone, magnesite, phos-
phatic rock and salt. Manganese and arseni-
cal ores also have notice, there being a
demand for the latter due to the establish-
ment of a plant for the production of arseni-
cal compounds within the Commonwealth.


WOODROW THE BALANCER AND THE FOURTEEN POINTS.


m
fARtDI.HM.CO
0
Use a genuine, high-grade
Australian Product in
FAULDING’S
Medicinal
EPSOM SALTS.
SPECIALLY REFINED AND
GUARANTEED PURE.
Sold in loz. Packets, lib. Cartons, and Bulk
in lewt. cases.
LOOK FOR THE BLUE LABEL.
Manufactured and refined in Australia by
F. H. FAULDING & CO.,
Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane
and London.
Why
be
deaf?
W ithout good hearing you are greatly' handi-
capped, and the fact is brought home to you
every day. Why remain deaf? The
Acousticon
10 Days’
FREE TRIAL
will safely and surely enable you to hear.
Over 330,000 users, including the Prime Minis-
Mr. Hughes, who is using his “Aeousticon”
at the Peace Conference. Write for 10 Days’ Free
T"? 1 an “Aeousticon.” No deposit, no
obligation. Convince yourself at our expense,
and DON’T STAY DEAF!
Lamson
Store
1 Service
Co.,
102 Dakingr House. SYDNEY.
Olderfleet, Collins St.,MELB
N.Z.:
IV.A.:
John Procter, 200 High St.. Christc’h.
H. Little & Co., 861 Hay Street; Perth.
Ensure protection against
contrasts of temperature by wearing
the British made -
u
Underwear
Jason Garments give safety in all
weathers —never clammy, always com-
fortable and soft as silk.
New ** Olympic” Brand.
Owing to the high prices of the yarns from which
Jason All-wool goods are made, the manufacturers
have introduced temporarily lower lines containing
a percentage of cotton—bearing the same guarantee
of quality as the regular lines. Your dealer will
supply you. Sole manufacturers
Jason Underwear Co., Leicester, Eng.
Ab 70
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Tleparting Gov. Stanley, of Victoria, did
not take much trouble to disguise his opinion
that a man paring potatoes for soldiers in
Flanders was of greater importance .during
the war than an Australian State Excellency
striving to pose as a “link of Empire,” or
something equally inedible. The Governor
is a bit of an amateur carpenter. “We shall
be sorry to lose you,” said one of Melbourne’s
ex-Gaud Mayors. “You’ve done good work,
sir.” “You should see the little glass-cabinet
I’ve made,” answered his Ex., vaguely.
Mrs. President Wilson No. 1 was German-
born, and the present mistress- of the White
House is a hyphenated American.
The fact that Senator Pearce visited
Adelaide just before his departure gave rise
to rumors that he was about to imitate'
Hughes when that celebrity made his escape
from Australia on a historic occasion. It
was rumored that the Minister was going to
board the Protector at Port Adelaide, and
would be put on board the Marathon off
Kangaroo Island. But he braved a Mel-
bourne departure. As a matter of fact, he
ran over to S. Aus. merely to say good-bye
to his aged parents, who live in a modest
cottage at Glen Osmond.
JUSTICE HAROLD CRISP, of Tasmania.
“G.V-.E.” : Another candidate for the most-*
decorated Digger—Major Black, of the 11th
Batt. (Westralia), D.S.O. and Bar, M.M.,
D.C.M., M.C. and Bar, Croix de Guerre,
Cross of the Legion of Honor. One time a
woodcutter, Black left W.A. as a lance-
corporal and was a major in 1917. Un-
happily he was killed 12 months ago.
George Smith, the fine big, bearded padre
who is a central figure of the “Rorke’s
Drift” picture in the N. S. Wales Art Gal-
lery, died in England a few weeks ago. He
had been an army-chaplain ever since the
Zulu War.
11. McVilly, who is to succeed E. Hiley as
general manager of Maoriland railways,
started in the Speck’s microscopical service,
but soon left it to rustle a job in M.L.,
where he worked steadily to the front. Cap-
tain McVilly, ex-amateur sculling champion,
is the son of a brother who stayed in Tas-
mania.
F. W. Bamford, M.H.R., had his seven-
tieth birthday last week. Born at Dubbo
(N.S.W.), he used to be a railway and
building contractor, but subsequently ran a
newspaper in North Queensland. Bamford
is one of the few surviving relics of the first
Federal Parliament and is probably the
oldest M.P. in either House, though J. M.
Chanter isn’t many months astern.
Secretarying seems to be the long suit of
D. B. Edward, born in N. S. Wales. He
has in turn been secretary to a Lands
Minister, then to the N. S. Wales Exhibi-
tion Commissioners at the Franeo-British
show in London, later t'6 the Commissioners
at the Panama Exposition in San Fran-
cisco. A similar job kept him for a few
years in the Federal Department that
William Morris Hughes reigns over, and
now he is secretary to the Australian Com-
missioner in TJ.S.A., with a location on New
York’s Gay White Way.
Norris, who pulled off the Vic. Auditor-
Generalship (£lOOO a year), began his
official life as a telegraph messenger when
the State Government ran the mails and
wires. A clever and ambitious youngst°r,
Norris had a steep climb until 1909. He
did a lot of work on Royal Commissions for
four years (1905-9), but could not get
past £2OO a year. Bent was the first to
recognise him by paying him for special
work. Ten years ago the outlook still
seemed so black that Norris decided to leave
the service. He was persuaded to give it
another go, and in the next 10 years quad-
rupled his screw. McPherson has asked him
to go to England and help, interview Cohen
about a conversion loan. Norris has con-
sented—and has been severely criticised for
forgetting his new dignity as Parliament’s
watchdog.
During the severe winter of 1916-17
“Birdy” was to be seen almost
any morning hopping away
from the gates of G.H.Q. at
Bray to do a couple of kilos
along the cobbles. Coming out
one morning in February, ’l7,
the boss Digger spotted one of
his men who had missed his
column squatted on a pack by
the roadside. With his cus-
tomary cheerfulness “Birdy”
hailed him : “Come, for a run?”
Bilijim sprang to ! it with an
eager “Right-o!” and followed
his chief down the road at a 10-
knot clip. All went well for
several kilos ; then the Digger’s
knees began to brush and he
spluttered, “What about that
drink?’ “Birdy” halted for a second, then
snapped, “I said ‘run,’ not ‘rum’!”
Dr. Brissenden, who left the Bar to become
Private Digger, and has just accepted a
District Court judgeship, will supply the
N. S. Wales bench with its first George
Reid eyeglass.
The Jesuit Father Pidcock, who died, aged
80, in Adelaide the other day, was one of
the very few R.C. priests in Australia who
have had a wife. For some years in the
seventies he was an Anglican clergyman in
YYestralia; then (1880) he and his wife
verted, and 13 years later, being then well
over 60, he was ordained priest. He was a
learned linguist and a fine musician.
\ ietorian papers have been killing a
baronet. Sir William Oliver Cuffe Wheeler,
son of Sir Arthur Cuffe Wheeler. The
baronet, iQ is explained, was better known
as Bill Wheeler, drover, of Euroa. Per-
haps he was Bill Wheeler, drover. There
is a Wheeler-Cuffe who is an Irish baronet,
but until a year or two ago, at any rate, he
lived in Kilkenny, and his name was Charles
Frederick, and his heir’s name was Otway.
Dead in his 93rd year, Joseph Arch, farm-
hand, accounted the first direct represen-
tative of Labor sent to the House of
Commons.
Over half a century ago a Dane named
Ails Olsen pioneered a settlement at East
Poowong, in the wilds of Gippsland. between
Korumburra and Warragul. Olsen left
behind him a bunch of hard-doing toilers who
still keep East Poowong on the map as the
Danish-settlement” and an object-lesson in
rural production. The widow Olsen died at
Canterbury (Vic.) early this month.
H Harrison, a senior operator in the
N.S.W. branch of Webster’s department, has
handled more quarantine messages than
probably any other dozen men. The Depart-
ment seems to have just got into the habit
of calling on Harrison when there was need
of a man to run the office at North Head,
and he has been through every epidemic
for years past. Just before Christmas he
thought he had finished with quarantine
work for good ; but the removal of the
Argyllshire men to the Cricket Ground found
him there at his old job, and from all
accounts doing it as ungrudgingly as usual.
Lieut. McCarthy, one of Westralia’s V.C.’s,
was turned down by the doctors when he
looked in to enlist, being some fingers short
on the left hand. How could a man with a
couple of digits missing handle a rifle any
more than a man with flat feet? But when
McCarthy held his range-shooting records
under their noses they dressed him'up in
khaki smart and lively. Westralia, by the
way, has ten V.C.’s to credit.
On the voyage which he never finished
Bigjohn Forrest suffered agony, but courage
and hope never failed him. At Durban the
steamer was held up for a few days and the
suffering man was persuaded to go into a
private hospital, but no appeal could keep
him there, although it was clear that what-
ever chance he had lay in his remaining.
He was buoyed up to the last by the belief
that experts in London would save him. A
great fortitude was John Forrest’s.
Concerning a man in a hurry :
Lieut.-Colonel George Steward, who succeeds A. G.
Sainsbury as Police Commissioner of Victoria, has
made the pace in Public Service promotion since he
got a more or less obscure job in the Tasmanian
railways in 1892. Previous to that he had been for
nine years in the employ of the British Government.
From the Speck’s Railway Department he was moved
rapidly until he became, in turn, chief clerk and
accountant in the Education Department, chief in-
spector of explosives and magazines, clerk of the
Executive Council, secretary to the Premier and
Under-Secretary for the State —all in five years ! He
was through with Tassy in 1902, and started his
advance upon the mainland from a post in the
Department of External Affairs. Eighteen months
NOT FOR JOSEPH.
“Joseph Cook, has refused an invitation to visib
Poland.”— Cable.
DISTINGUISHED POLISH LEGISLATOR : “Your
Excellency, come and see Poland—our
Legislature, our method of recall,
our ”
JOSEPH COOK : “Not on your sacred
whiskers! Take Billy!”
later he was secretary to the Executive Council and
official sec. to the Gov.-General. Last year he was
knighted, and if he lives long enough he may be
first president of the Republic. He is only 50.
Pay as Police Commissioner, £lOOO a year. If he
had stuck to railway work he might have fastened
to the £2500 a year which the Westralian Govern-
ment i$ offering for a Commissioner.
Adelaide’s expert flier, Major W. A.
McCloughrey, M.C., D.F.C., has now been
awarded the D.S.O. He has had command
of No. 4 squadron since the members went
to France 15 months ago—the remarkable
squadron which accounted for 30 machines
in days during the last week of the
war. Excepting a few weeks recovering
from .wounds the Major has been busy ever
since the trouble commenced. He is only 24.
A younger brother, Captain E. J. McClough-
rey, D. 5.0., D.F.C., also with a fine flying
record, has just recovered from his fourth
wound and is back on duty. There’s a
proud father in North Adelaide.
Australian painter G. W. Lambert is hav-
ing it handed to him on a plate these times.
Claude Phillips, the knighted art-critic of
London D.T., lately gave a column to the
show of the Australian war artists, and
threw all his best handsprings and back
somersaults round the fine craftsman’s war
designs and studies and war-portraits.
Pickering, head of the Accounts Depart-
ment of S.A. Railways, has just completed
59 years of service. He has spent all his
life at the one job, and will be 70 in July.
Two lines in an American paper record
the disappearance
of the schooner
Halcyon, which had
a long and adven-
turous career in
the Pacific. It was
the Halcyon that
provided Jack Lon-
don with the basis
of a good stary,
“The Sea Wolf,”
as lie sailed iff her
on one of her whal-
ing trips to the
North Pacific. In
the yarn the blind
captain’s ship was
wrecked in the
same locality as
the Halcyon, which
went adrift in a
big storm last Nov-
ember while at
Akutan, in the
Aleutian Islands,
and has not been
heard of since.
Fact plagiarising
fiction !
BERN ARD
O'DOWD, poet.
Last year was an unlucky one for Maori-
land legislators. In the House of Reps,
there were five deaths, and in the Leg. Coun-
cil four members, including the Speaker,
answered the division-bell. There were
seven by-elections, and, incidentally, the
National Debt reared itself so high that the
Treasurer had to climb a fire-ladder to see if
he could locate the summit through a
telescope.
Members of the Queenscliff (Vic.) life-
boat crew who have lately retired : Coxswain
W. Jackson, 39 years’ service ; Bowman A.
Thwaites (40 years), W. Watson (40), W.
Todd (35), G. Zuba (32), J. Fox (28), P.
Stephens (22). H. Hopper (22), G. Locke
(19), and G. Slapter (11). Tastes some-
thing like another world’s record in lifeboat
service.
“Musketoon”: “Dad” Webster, of Forbes
(N.S.W.), who runs a barber’s shop as a
sideline to a soft-drinkery, intends contesting
the Senate on the Unification ticket at next
Federal election. Amongst the candidate’s
other jobs are returning-officer for Ashburn-
ham, alderman of Forbes, and J.P. —one of
the busiest in the Ma State. lie has ear-
marked £5OO for election expenses, and in-
tends making his first speech at Narromine.
Premier Lawson has had Peeler, V.C.,
fitted into the Vic. Closer Settlement branch
as inspector of works on returned soldiers’
allotments. Prior to the big scrap, Peeler
did some orcharding and a bit of general
farming at Barker’s Creek in the Castle-
maine electorate. He seems a likely sort of
man for his job. Lieut. N. Halley, orderly-
officer to Brig.-General Williams, and Ser-
geant A. W. Cavanagh, D.C.M., have been
appointed inspectors of soldiers’ settlements
in the same branch, of the Lands Depart-
ment. Cavanagh is a son of the late W. A.
Cavanagh, inspector of Vic. State schools.
Two of his brothers won the D.C.M., mak-
ing three in the family.
An old station-hand in the Molong
(N.S.W.) district has put himself tem-
porarily on the free-drink list. He has
cautiously revealed the fact that he is Daniel
Kelly, bushranger, supposed to have been
killed along with Hart, and burned out of
recognition in the pub at Glenrowan (Vie.)
40 years ago. His simple explanation is
that the two cinders were those of two other
fellows, and that he and Hart got away.
But, really, why bother? When a man
attains the age of 62 or 65 and is still a
station-hand, there is little harm in his effort
to make a mouthful of refreshment by being
a dead bushranger.
“Private Trim”: Staff-sergeant Sagar, of
the A.M.C., will be remembered by every
Digger w r ho travelled on the plague-ship
Boonah. At a few minutes’ notice Sagar
was called on to fill a sick dispenser’s place
on the ship’s arrival at Fremantle, and when
she developed pneumonic ’flu, two or three
days out, Sagar was about the only medical
n.c.o. who remained upright. For many
days he doubled the parts of dispenser and
orderly while men were dropping all round
him, and he had to spend much of his time
crawling under the hammocks of the steadily-
expanding sick bay, handing up medicine and
unlimited cheerfulness. There were numer-
ous corpses on the Boonah, and Sagar’s fight
against the pestilence under conditions which
vastly increased the personal hazard de-
served the Victoria Cross.
MIXING THEM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“It is understood that the Arabian nation will
endeavor to become an American protectorate.”
Backward the shuttle flies from east to west.
Old glories fade and newer splendors blaze.
Mahomet’s ancient beard may find a rest
Beneath the Stars and Stripes of later days.
Amid Palmyra’s ruins and the waste
Of Edom's rock-hewn cities men shall hear
Strange voices passing in a dust of haste
To bring democracy’s millennium near.
Yes, Washington and all the Mayflower’s men
Shall be as catchwords on an Arab lip;
Great Abraham shall fire the tongue and pen;
Abe Lincoln —let the other fellow rip!
Along the very ancient pilgrim way
Shall rise the new hotel, with bathrooms glad,
While Arab maidens in their new array
Read Ella Wheeler Wilcox in Bagdad.
Westward, in Florida, shall mosques arise
And sunset voices call the folk to prayer;
Lo, west shall turn to east before our eyes
And east grow west ere we are well aware!
For if Mahomet really has a punch
And Washington says always what he means,
New York may take old Mecca out to lunch
On tinned asparagus and Boston beans;
While, through the pauses of the western skite,
Faint, murmurous, fantastic voices creep
From palm-fringed wells, and spooks of ancient
night
Lull .Kansas and New Jersey into sleep.
N.S.W,
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.


I
i
TO
SEAT
VE
J
w
m
1
m
i
i
1
SI
M
T
m
9
THE CENTRE OF ATTRACTION
NAVY CUT
TH REE STRENGTHS
The world renowned brand of
W D.* H O.WILLS
THE
400
OF PEACE AND QUALITY
mm-
'■JM&
ad id /jD


LADIES!
EVERY PEARL HAS ITS CHARM.
A Beautiful Woman is a Paradise to the Eyes.
THE PEARLS OF PRICELESS VALUE are to be found in
ohn
&»» w
inter’s
TOILET PREPARATIONS—for the GODDESS OP BEAUTY.
JOHN ST?ANC' WINTERS
(ANTISJPTIC)
telCfifflH
(*w» tmtfitrsems 'V
foe ft* MO imp*r‘i to Me
ow/fft /* c//srtn<J<vc
todee/cotoOfo twvare/
of 'one tour
They have won SIX GOLD MEDALS and are
USED BY ROYALTY.
Dental Cream, a delightful antiseptic, for pearl-white teeth, with a
delicate piquancy of tone and flavor, Lakshmi Cream and Lotion,
New Face Cream (2 colors), Powder (3 tints), Soap, Carmine, Hair
Foods (Oily and Non-Olly), etc.
Ail obtainable at the Civil Service, Horderns’, Washington H. Soul’s.
Farmer & Co.’s, Lassetter’s, David Jones’, W. T. Waters, etc., and
all leading Chemists.
Send 3d. stamp for sample of Soap, or Dental Cream, or Powder
(name the tint), or Cakshmi Cream, or New Pace Cream, and
Booklet, to John Strange Winter (Condon, Paris, Koine), 26-30
Jamieson Street, Sydney. (Name this paper,)
,e It Oman
HIGH-CLASS
SPECIALTIES
Creams
zrd
Pastes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANC LTD.
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne.
E. BROWN @ SQNS LONDON
AOEJNCIES • ALL - OVER - THE • WORLD
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantlj-
Eurnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Hath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Directo-
Society
MINCHINBURY
“Camelero”: Relatives need not fear that
the graves of their heroes will be neglected
in Balestine. At Duran, near Jerusalem,
where two Lighthorsemen were killed when
the town was captured from the Turks, the
Jewish inhabitants have erected a fine monu-
ment, and the children of the village keep
the graves in splendid order and covered
with wreaths. At Richon le Zion several
Maorilanders are buried, and here also the
Jews have erected fine granite monuments
and fenced the graves. Some of the Jews
in these villages took part in the Coolgardie
gold rush, and when they returned to the
Holy Land they introduced eucalyptus-trees,
which surround our little cemeteries. Enter-
ing Duran for the first time one of the Light-
horsemen noticed the oldest inhabitant
ploughing in a field, and greeted him in
Arabic. He was astonished when the Jew
replied, “Cut out the Arabic! I carried a
swag to Broken Ilill before you were born.”
* * * *
Gargle”: Some of us chemists ought to
open a Bottle and Jug department. Since
the pubs closed the demand for methylated
spirits, never very large, has grown in some
cases to such an extent that it has become a
leading line. The other day a dishevelled
female and a masculine replica with a very
“NO GOOD TO GUNDY."
“What about going home?”
“What about taking our masks off?”
damaged face pushed in simultaneously.
Each disaster held a small bottle and six-
pence, and their language was very dingy as
they were hurried out of the shop. Curiously
they don’t seem to worry-the oil and color-
men. The poor devils are under the delu-
sion that the smaller the nobbier the greater
the concentrated agony therein.
“Quadratic”: While the argument flaps
about H.M.A.S. Australia and the Common-
wealth flag, I hoist this from a letter writ-
ten by an Australian midshipman aboard
H.M.S. Canada in the Firth of Forth on
the Sunday after the great surrender: —-
The Australia is now lying alongside us, and one
rude fellow asked me if they were airing night
clothing when they hoisted the Commonwealth flag.
There is one of us in hospital now. P.S. —Not me.
So, although the Australian flag was not
flown at the jackstaff while the ship was
under way, it was evidently hoisted directly
she dropped anchor.
* * * *
“Jullundur” from a laboratory:—
I wasn’t surprised at the cable news from London
that an army doctor in France had located the boss-
germ of black ’flu. There is a hint of a great dis-
covery toward in pathological circles, but no defin-
ite statements have been made in latest files to
hand (Dec. 14, T 8). A preliminary note has been
published at the request of Colonel Cummins, adviser
in pathology with the British armies in France,
which agrees in substance with the opinions of the
French observers, Nicolle and Lebailly, noticed by
The Bulletin in a recent issue (9/1/T9). They
remarked that black ’flu was probably due
to a filtrable virus. The English observers,
in an interim report to the Medical Re-
search Committee, have come to the conclusion
that a filtrable virus is the cause of the early stage
of the present scourge. The boss-germ, having-
played old Harry with the internal economy of its
victim, disappears . about the sixth day, leaving the
further conduct of the campaign against the last
defences of the patient to his hefty lieutenants,
Messrs. Pneumococcus and Co. Our watchword
should be: Beware of the early-stager. Lock him
up for seven days, and then he is perfectly harm-
less and could give a theatre-party or reception
without any danger to his cobbers.
“Country Bed”: Before the war Blank
had served his articles for five years as a
marine-engineer. He returned from the
Front with some pieces of shrapnel in his
back. They have a habit of working out,
invaliding him for a few weeks at a time.
As he had saved a decent portion of his
military pay and was unfit for a sea life,
Blank decided to set up a small engineering
business. He put his savings into a good
outfit of tools, and then repaired to the
Repatriation Department for help to start
the business going. The Repats waved him
off the.doorstep with “ You don’t need any
help.” Blank’s trouble, apparently, is self-
reliance. If he had lost all his pay at two-
up instead of saving it the Department
might have looked at him kindly and threat-
ened to start him off as a farmer.
* * * *
The closing of churches by quarantine
regulation has aroused a brisk newspaper
correspondence to the effect that epidemics
are a visitation on account of sin, and that
piety, expressed by public worship, is the
best way to keep them off. The difficulty
is that the position is so indefinite. Fiety, it
appears, will keep off plague, but how much
piety will do it no
one knows. There is
no plague-proof saint
on view to measure
by. It is certain that
everybody dies sooner
or later. It is also
certain that wicked
people often live to a
grea: age, unless they
simply look wicked
because we are tired
of seeing them about.
All the best people
die young—under one
year of age, in fact—
which doesn't suggest
that their sinless con-
dition prolongs their
lives much. The great
majority of folk
either pass out before
the age of two, when
responsibility hasn’t
commenced, or after
the age of 60, when
they have committed
most of the sin they
are capable of and
have weathered most
of the epidemics that
are likely to come
their way. The most
holy man is, of course,
the centenarian, as is
shown by the way visitations have avoided
him, and it is a pity he is such a liar
when he starts to tell about his deeds at the
battle of Waterloo.
* * * *
“Copabella”: The Navy Department is
putting its staffs into ’flu masks, and is
taking no chances that the men shall make
any mistake in the using of them. The
“mask order” is a lengthy document, most
exact as to detail. It says, for instance,
that masks must be worn at all times, save
meals. The Department seems to have
feared the tars would insist on poking
their stew through the mesh. The masks
may be lifted for conversation, which must
be short withal- —no doubt a concession to
petty officers given to language. It was
feared they might swallow a word and
choke. Two masks were issued to each rat-
ing, to be worn alternately, not both at
once; and always with the red spot out-
TWINS.
LADY BOAROER: “Well, William, is it a littl bog arrived?"
WILLIAM ( gloomily ): “ Yes; and another t see that all hands get a fair squeal."
wards. They are to be tied round the neck
and under the chin, but the kind of “hitch” or
“splice” is left optional. At the end of
each day the removed masks (the order
doesn’t specifically mention “removed,” but
I should say it is implied), is to be handed
to the sick-berth steward for disinfection.
This rite is to be carried out only by the
“old man” himself—the 5.D.N.0.; but, the
disinfecting done (formula supplied), it is
permitted the rating to hang the mask ou!
lo dry with his own hands! The masks
followed several days after the order, the
interim, it being understood, to be devoted
to a complete mastery of the regulations.
The great, solemn, silent, thorough, humor-
less Navy—what should we do without it?
# * * *
“Clive Brewster”: When I left the Big
Smoke the new ribbons of the Royal Air
Force were being seen in the streets. Like
other R.A.F. stunts, they are quite unlike
army or navy ribbons. The Distinguished
Flying Cross corresponds to the army’s
Military Cross and the navy’s Distinguished
Service Cross, except that it is given only
for gallantry in contact with the enemy.
It is a purple-and-wliite ribbon with layers
of the two colors running horizontally, not
vertically as is the case with all other rib-
bons. The Air Force Cross is patterned
on the same idea, with layers one-eighth of
an inch wide of red and white, and is
awarded for gallantry when the enemy is
not here, i.e., for Home Service. The lat-
ter cross is not being allowed to degenerate
to the level of the 0.8. E., as lists of recom-
mendations are very carefully raked over at
the Air Ministry. Besides these crosses,
there are the Distinguished Flying Medal
and the Air Force Medal for the rank and
file, now called “airmen,” to which similar
conditions apply. The V..C. and the D.S.O.
are now the same for all three services, as
the navy’s blue-ribboned V.O. has been
changed to red.
“Norbell”: The , Federal Quarantine
authorities have decided to intern return-
ing Queensland troops at Lytton until they
are pronounced clean. The Bananaland
Government strongly objects to this, and
small blame to it. I was Q.M.S. at the
military V.D. camp at Lytton, which ad-
joins the quarantine compound, and,
although the military enclosure is much
easier to guard than the quarantine ground,
owing to the natural barriers of sea and
mangrove swamps, some lively birds broke
out every night. This notwithstanding a
large armed guard, and the fact that our
patients were deprived of all outer clothing
except dungarees and white hats. Over 50
venereal cases were missing on one occasion,
and I have heard the M.O. complain bitterly
that he had met some of his patients drink-
ing in Brisbane, 12 miles away. The
Federal authorit'es propose to maintain a
guard of 300. This means that 100 men,
perhaps, will be on duty at the one time —
to watch, approximately, three miles of
boundary. But it is announced that “a
barbed wire has been put round the quaran-
tine area.” 800h —the Diggers can almost
eat barbed wire now !
This from the Morwell Advertiser
(Vic.) is evidence that people take their
religion seriously down there: —
Ten Cows, pick of a good herd, will be given
to anyone finding an instance of infant baptism in
the New Testament Scriptures.
The Religious Editor offers his theory, and
if it is considered satisfactory he expects to
meet 10 cows on the office stair at an early
date:
And there went out unto him all the land of
Jud®a and they of Jerusalem and were ALL bap-
tised of him in the river of Jordan. —Mark 1, 5.
Matthew enlarges it to “Jerusalem and all
Judspa and all the region round about Jor-
dan.” If there were no infants baptised
(the legal definition of an infant is a per-
son under 21), then there were no infants
at all, and that was the end of the Hebrew
race. No nation can live without infants.
Yet the race survives and was going strong
when the Religious Editor last went down
Liverpool-street.
(Continued on page 18.)
MASKED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Last night your lips were mine. We meet to-day:
Your eyes are still the same ; your voice still speaks
Straight to my heart; I guess your oval cheeks ;
But somehow strange, and very far away,
Out of a weird pale world you come to me;
And full of mystery as is the tomb,-
An unknown, unreached woman seems to loom.
Strange mask meets mask! I wonder can it be
I, too, am changed?. .. .How strangely in my'ears
My own voice sounds across a void of air,
And recollection, like a phantom prayer,
Wanders to you and wonders if it hears
Some faint response from ages that are lost
Of love that lived and looks now on Love’s ghost ?
N.S.W.
LOLA GORNALL.


Hi
■ •■■■ -■
-
■
■
■ m
m
i m
■
:
■
WSMMM.
imm
HE IB
1111
HHI
HIS
fj©T
w
...
K?i
■an
a
OT
warn hh
- .
mrnmm m
m"' : : : Hm '
:
hhmhm
I^yCKJ
Ig®
«¥
IH
m
:
warn ■
mm
I j.; a: V fpf Isl »;
■:
I I
■HfS
, H 1
, *
■■si
■
■Nsii
ihbbhh
K 1
/.v-'
wmm
.
mum
i
Wjk
■mm
■■
-V-- I
is
I :' ■ I
IK rr
S Si
K
J-rv
fjrryv
M§3
m
mm
iQiO*7
M
wmm.
ms
m m
1
HHHHI
.
nm
1
mb m
: 1 ■
mmmsmmmsimm
ism#iii«iii
mam
■ t
a
mm
mmm
worn
1 ■
Illll!
■
i
HU
u
■■■■ n
mmm
I
1
i > *
: /


IN THESE SERIOUS EPIDEMIC DAYS
Get CLEMENTS TONIC for your Blood
Pure Blood means less risk of infection and greater powers of resistance to epidemic attacks.
The purer the blood the stronger the body. Epidemic disease thrives on the debilitated system.
Pffnrt fht * Australia when it behoves all persons to take every care of themselves and ward off to their greatest
Sfnf hpXS a health that threatens them. No one can afford to take any undue risk, and the person who has the best condi-
F? atest P°. wers . resistance to any invading force, whether it is epidemic disease, privation, oppressive
climatic conditions, worries, or minor illness, is best fortified against it. It is the old story in a new war of the soldier well ai med:
he is shielded from attack of destructive and destroying forces. J 3 ’
equipment of every home at the present tim
Get it from your Chemist To-day.
Clements Tonic Ltd.. Rozelle, N.S.W.
Use it as the Pure Blood Remedy.
“Sarg”: I was making my way from a
details camp at one port on the Syrian
coast to another 50 miles distant. There
were two modes of transport—one by drifter
and the other by motor-lorry. Two Scots
and myself stood on the embarkation pier
awaiting a drifter. The sea outside the
wall was tumbling about and one of the
Scot's turned a disapproving eye on it. “Ah
think All’ll change tae tli’ lawrries,” he
remarked. “Ye’re br-r-reezy, Airchie,
The sea ’ll do ye guid,” replied his mate.
Then the drifter bumped and heaved up to
the jetty and the skipper appeared on the
diminutive bridge with a handkerchief tied
round his chin. “What’s up with the
skipper?” I inquired of one of the crew.
“Just a touch of toothache, I think,” he
replied. Then I saw Airchie doing a move
over the side of the pier and the friend
tugging at his kilt. ' “What’s up wiv y’h,
Sc-ottie?” inquired the embarkation corporal.
“’Ave y’h lawst anyfing?” “Naw, Ah hae
not; but when ye see the skeeper wi’ his
whuskers tied on, utt’s taime tae go ba
lawr-r-ry!”
The cinema man missed two “star” reels
last week. One was the burning of 75,000
bags of wheat valued at £36,000, set on fire
at Mirrool (N.S.W.) by a spark from a
railway engine ; the other was the destruction
of the Booligal to Hay (N.S.W.) coach and-
its' cargo of goods and mails. The four-
horse vehicle pulled out of Hay on Thursday
night, the driver being the only person
aboard. Ten miles from Booligal early on
Friday morning the team bolted and the
driver, unable to control the animals, put
the coach in lock and capsized it. He was
knocked unconscious, while the horses tore
THESE BEASTLY LOWER ORDERS.
MR. NEWAD (trying to make an impression) ; “Is this the best wine, James?”
James ( fed-up ) : “No, sir; bat it’s the best you’ve got, sir.”
themselves free. In the smash a hurricane
lamp set-fire to the wreckage and when the
driver regained his senses the flames were
damping skyward. He could do nothing but
massage his bumps and watch the caravan
go up in smoke.
SAME THING—NOT QUITE.
SHE: “Some men are sympathetic listeners before and after marriage.”
HE: “ M’ yes. Before marriage he willingly lets her do all the talking. After marriage
he’s simply got to.”
“F.H.” on an old dispute :
In spite of what “D.F.” writes (B. 30/l/’l9),
questioning the accuracy of “history books and
other alleged authorities” in naming the Hentys as
the pioneers of Portland and the first settlers in
Victoria, no disproof of these claims has ever been
produced. “D.F.” mentions John Griffiths of Parra-
matta as having “traded with Portland years before
the Hentys heard of it,” the trade consisting of
seal and kangaroo skins and whale-oil. Griffiths,
according to “D.F.,” built a house at Portland and
had a whaling-station there in ’32, which was going
strong with William Dutton in charge when the
Hentys first arrived in 1834. Now, the chief con-
troversy concerning the pioneer settlement of Vic-
toria occurred between Henty and Fawk. er,
and the latter was definitely proven to Lave
parked his bullock-waggon at Port Phillip some time
after llentv founded the Portland Bay village. Port
Phillip had long previously been “settled” by the
authorities as a convict establishment, but the
settlement was a temporary one, and the fact has
never been taken as interfering with Fawkner’s claim
to be regarded as the first actual settler on the site
of Melbourne and the pioneer of Port Phillip.
Edward Henty’s settlement at Portland was the first
successful attempt at permanent colonisation, and I
think no further claim has been made on his behalf.
Speaking in 1872 at a public gathering at Portland
Henty said: “I arrived here on the 19th of November,
1834, and by one o’clock landed 13 heifers, four
working bullocks, five pigs, two turkeys, two guinea-
fowls, six dogs, a plough, seeds, plants, vines, apple
and fruit trees” —these last bought from Fawkner,
then at Launceston. “I pitched my tent on a nice,
green flat, procured fresh water by digging, and thus
my colonisation commenced. At that time there
ua< no white man nearer than King George’s Sound
on the west and Twofold Bay on the east. On 6th
December we commenced ploughing for potatoes on
the present site of Richmond Cottage.” This cot-
tage, built soon afterwards, and still standing, is
confidently indicated by local residents as “Port-
land’s first house.” The original landing-party, by
the way, consisted of six members, including four
employees, and it seems in the last degree unlikely
that the discovery by these persons either of William
Dutton or of the house built by Griffiths could or
would have been suppressed by the Henty family and
its employees for the purpose of “making history.”
This pioneering enterprise of 1834 Was not the first
acquaintance Edward Henty had with Portland Bay.
He had visited the location thrice previously, and
or the second occasion had “spied out the land” in
the neighborhood of Darlot’s Creek, Lake Oondali
and Bridgewater, afterwards making a trip- to the
Swan River and calling at Portland Bay for the third
time on his way back to Launceston. His subsequent
settlement at Portland in 1834 was therefore the
deliberate choice of one no doubt fully advised of
whatever previous activities there may have been at
the .bay.
The S.A. Judges, who have long been com-
plaining about the unventilated condition of
the Supreme Court in Adelaide, have
acquired a valuable bit of evidence in sup-
port of their claim for improvements. Dur-
ing recent hot weather a witness fainted
in the box. The poor chap was only
used to tending a boiler, and the Court was
so much hotter than his usual fireman’s job
that he collapsed. Judge Commonsense
Gordon had long before this shed his wig, and
invited counsel to follow his example.
“Tlte Oldest Inhabitant” raises a wreck :
There Is no reason to doubt that ancient John
Minro, of Ballarat, is a survivor of the London
wreck; and it is likely enough that he is the last
of them. The ship went down in the Bay. of Biscay
on January 11, 1866. One boat alone survived. In
it were John Jones (chief engineer), 15 of the crew,
D. G. Main (passenger), John Munro (passenger)
an( !,J- E - Wilson (passenger). Gardner, a steward,
had been a hairdresser in Melbourne, and went to
England to get some money which he thought he
had inherited, but did not, and he had to work a
passage back. It was to him G. V. Brooke gave, his
message to the people of Melbourne. At least,
Gardner said he did. George Coppin got hold of
him and announced a night when he would in
pei son deliver it. The house was crammed with
people. Gardner came on flourishing his arms,
but was so “overcome” that he was unable to speak.
Coppin said it was emotion. John King, A. 8., who
steered the boat that was saved, came to Melbourne
and appeared without speaking on the Old Princess’s
stage. Later he passed on to Sydney, and had a
waterman’s boat at the foot of Margaret-street, when
the old A.S.N. wharf was there.
Undertakers’ assistants in Melbourne are
threatening to strike if not given increased
pay during the ’flu epidemic. What shall we
say of the irreverence of the man who seeks
to take a rise out of the dead?
“0.L.”: Life being a very precious thing
to under-populated Australia, each produc-
ing citizen of this country having a large
capital value, I suggest that the State
should take a new view of its relations with
the medical and allied professions. The
establishment of independent tribunals for
inquiry into every death that happens,
though it would be an expensive business,
would uncover a lot of unpleasantness and
most certainly have the effect of reducing
the death-rate. Tribunals exist for consid-
ering the conduct of jockeys, sea-captains
and so on ; yet, once registered, the crimin-
ally-neglectful riff-raff of the medical pro-
fession holds a position from' which dis-
lodgmeut is almost impossible. Such a pro-
cedure would benefit the reputable practi-
tioner, too, by sheeting home to the doctor,
nurse or the family of the patient the re-
sponsibility for death in cases where recov-
ery should have been a certainty. As mat-
ters stand, fatalities may result because
the doctor gives the wrong treatment, or
because nurse dozes through a critical
period, or perhaps owing to the action of
the patient’s family in applying a “cure”
recommended by Gran’ma. Everybody
knows of such cases, even though the State
remain conveniently blind and deaf to save
itself the bother of getting out of the old,
dirty, .beaten track.
Melbourne drones are having a holiday
from the tiresome job of killing time in town.
During the week ended February 7 the rail-
way revenue was £27,316 less than for the
corresponding week of 1918 —practically all
passenger money. The man who can work
out what the loss means to general business
can have a Nobel Prize. ’Flu’s an expensive
interruption.
* * * *
“Date Food”: Melbourne Botanical
Gardens has a date-palm ( Phoenix dacty-
lifera) 79 years old. Dr. Godfrey Howitt
planted it in 1840 on his allotment in the
backblocks of Melbourne, at the corner of
Collins and Spring streets. This was well
out in the country then, and he reckoned
that date-growing would be a good business.
Years afterwards Dr. W. Howitt djjg the
palm up and gave it to the Gardens. It
has not fruited yet, but there’s plenty of
time.
“Silas”: In the bush near Tallangatta
(Vic.), the other day, Clms. O’Leary, who
trod on a large black snake, was not bitten,
CUPID DISCOUNTED.
“So your boy is among the quarantined?”
“Yes, and he’s just as well there till masks
go out.”
for the sufficient reason that the snake was
at the moment gagged with a frog it was
swallowing. There is only ' one Australian-
bush escape to go with this,' and the luck
that time stood to a prospector in North
Queensland. An alligator which had come
up to take him bit on the log against which
he was sleeping with such force that it
could not withdraw till the man had done so.
WHO FIRST GOT THE FLU?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Who first got the ’Flu?
“Not me,” said Vic-for-y;
“Not mine wa i the glor-y
Of catching the ’Flu;
I stood at the gateway,
Close guarding the .strait-way,
And nothing came through.
Of course I got something,
And acted the dumb thing,
And then—what a rum thing!—
They said it was ’Flu!
And, now folks are dying,
They say I was lying
And start up a-crying
‘ ’Twas Vic. got the ’Flu!’
You know it’s a libel;
I’ll swear on the Bible
The yarn isn’t true.
’Twas Pestis or Pneumo
Or Catarrho-Rheumo,
Or Dengue at worst ;
But, if I should burst,
It wasn’t the ’Flu!”
Thrice the chanticleer crew.
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.


DEWARS
WHISKY
Whisky is good whisky
if it is always
DISTINCTIVE—DESIRABLE-
DEPENDABLE.
Distinctive. The commonplace in life or whisky
never pleased man yet—it is the something different which
always appeals; The flawless flavour of Dewar’s instantly
tells of a worth born alone of peerless purity and dis—
criminating distillation. Nature's gifts or man's wit could
never devise a whisky of more decided distinction.
Desirable. Charm and desirability always go hand
in hand for without charm nothing is desirable. Dewar's
is a fountain of fascination—its triumphant quality per*
sistently pleases but never palls. The matured merits of
its magnificent mellowness may be enjoyed year in and
year out with never a trace of tiredness of taste.
Dependable. The power to inspire confidence is
one of the greatest assets of whisky as it is of man.
But there must be a solid foundation of worthiness.
Dewar s is always the same grand and genial spirit
ever constant in its promotion of good-fellowship. So
unchangeable is its seductive charm that men rightly
call it
THE SPIRIT SUPERB.


SPANISH INFLUENZA.
The best precautionary measure advised by Australia’s leading medical
men is an antiseptic condition of NOSE AND THROAT.
EVERYONE IS RECOMMENDED TO CARRY A BOX OF
NAZETHA PASTILLES
THE VERY BEST NOSE AND THROAT ANTISEPTIC.
By their use the curative fumes are searchingly carried to all the breath-
ing passages.
1/6
A. P.
OBTAINABLE ONLY FROM ALL CHEMISTS
or
1/6
MILLER & SON, Chemists, Hobart.
[2
THE
Foundation
of
GOOD COOKING
IMANDS
BAKING
POWDER
6 l
IRELAND’S
Baking Powder
Lessens the possibility of Scone failure and the loss
of valuable ingredients. It insures lighter, finer
cakes, and flaky, easily-digested pastry.
Try it, and prove for yourself that our claims for
its betterness are true, and that IRELAND’S
BAKING POWDER is the real help for all house-
wives on Baking Days. It is used throughout the
length and breadth of Australia, and our guarantee
safeguards you, for your grocer will refund .your
monev in case vou have any reason to be dissatisfied
with IRELAND’S BAKING POWDER.
Insist on your Grocer bringing you IRELAND’S.
J. IRELAND LTD., Newcastle.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
N. S. Wales Government last week modi-
fied some of its regulations with regard to
mask-wearing; but it hasn’t yet done much
to convince the public that the masks it has
ordered and the other steps it has taken are
such good things that the inconvenience and
losses ought to be cheerfully put up with.
The public has read (1) that in Adelaide,
where the mask is a rarity and business
goes on as usual, there had been no fresh
cases for eight days; (2) that at the Coast
Hospital (Sydney), where masks are worn
under the very strictest conditions, there
lias been an appalling number of cases
among the nurses. That sort of thing calls
for an answer; and the answer ought to
have the weight of the most solid and best-
known medical opinion of the State behind
ir.
Where will tie League of Nations keep
its motley army? For it must have an
army, else it will be a mere Hague Confer-
ence, and all States mu§£ be represented, else
it will be a case of
the big States pos-
sessing the force,
while the small ones
are disarmed. There
must be one system
of training and arm-
aments to make the
force efficient, and
there should be a
common language in
the army so that
orders may be under-
stood. How far
foreign soldiers will
be allowed to inter-
marry with the girls
of the country where
they are stationed is
a question. With a
common language
and plenty of inter-'
marriage—especially
plenty of intermar-
riage— 2. great deal
might be done to
obliterate race pre-
judices. The diffi-.
culty is that some*
members of the
jLeague wash less regularly than others.
Naval Minister Poynton indignantly
denies the charge that he is importing the
steel plates for shipbuilding purposes in
order to save a trifle on the cost of local
manufacture. Rather he does it because
we lack the machinery for making the
plates. In all this time it hasn’t
struck Poynton or his colleagues to make
the- machinery. We import ships because
we haven’t imported the plates to build
them with. Then we import the plates
because we haven’t imported the plant to
make them with. Sometimes we hold up the
ships and the plates because we haven’t im-
ported the money to pay for them with.
Then we export Hughes and Cook and
Pearce to help look for the money. Finally
Ivnibbs publishes figures showing how the
exports and imports are boom ins.
One of the futile compromises proposed
at the Peace Conference is the formation of
a buffer State between France and Ger-
many. A buffer is a small thin man who
has half a seat in the train because the fat
men on each side of him want a seat and a
quarter each, and threaten to give him “one
on the jore” if he complains.
FAIR WARNING.
One of the escaped contacts, upon being appre-
nended, showed a temperature.” —News item.
CONSTABLE O’JERK : “ ’Tis me duty to warn
ye that any temperachure ye may show
will he taken down an ’ used as ividence
against ye."
It was in November, 1814, that the great-
est Congress up to that time met at Vienna
to straighten the affairs of Europe. It was
a very important Congress and fond of the
sound of its own voice. So it talked and it
talked, till suddenly the Kaiser Napoleon
broke out of Holland—or, rather, Elba —and
blew all its deliberations away, and renewed
the war which ’ everybody thought was
finished. Foch evidently remembered it,
even if Wilson didn’t.
The Australian wool-grower hasn’t made
much noise about the queer things he has
noticed since the Government took the sales
business out of his hands, the price being-
something lie had never hoped for when the
war started. All the same, when one
grower, cutting up his clip, found that A
lot was appraised at 25|d. while B lot, sent
through another firm, was appraised at only
21|d., though the wool came from the
same lot of sheep, depastured together, shorn
together and classed together, he began to
think eliat there was something as rotten
about the Government’s management of wool
A PROTRACTED SEASON.
THE UNEMPLOYED PRO.: “Gad, but he looks
like being in for a cussedly long run,
too."
as_ of . metals and wheat. The astoundilig
thing is that wool-growers who thought they
smelt something have been bluffed into
silence by the assurance that anyone who
commented on the proceedings was liable to
a heavy penalty.
There is a grain of comfort in a table just
issued by the N. S. Wales Government
►Statist. In 10 years Sydney suburbs nave
lifted their aggregate population from 404,640
to 686.700, and practically the whole of the
increase has been in the outer suburbs.
Canterbury and Randwick show the largest
growth. The former has more than trebled
itself, and the other isn’t far behind, whereas
stuffy Alexandria and Recifern and Darling-
ton and Erskineville and Newtown have not,
lumped together, moved more than 6 per cent,
in the 10 years. Taxation on unimproved
land values seems to be doing something.
It is easy to ruin the boss by slowing
down on the job ; but what comes after ?
There is a boss at home, too. Suppose the
workman’s wife decided to ruin him. Sup-
pose she decided, instead of getting him
good value for his money, to waste food, time
and cash. It would ruin her boss cer-
tainly; but how much better off in the end
would the wife be 7 The relations of the
man and the boss on the job are almost
exactly the same, economically, as those of
the wife and her boss in the home.
The strangling of Australian idustries, that
sane men have seen coming all through the
war, is beginning. When sheet-metal—
copper, brass, aluminium, etc. —got scarce
the Colonial Ammunition Co. spent many
thousands in putting down a plant to turn
out the articles, and local consumers were
very much obliged, as the articles were good
and the prices reasonable. But Uncle Sam
was soon put wise, lowered his prices, and, as
soon as he could manage it after hostilities
ceased, began dumping, with the natural re-
sult of forcing the C.A. Co. to shut down
that branch of its business and discharge
100 or more workers. America helped us to
wm the war ; but if the chief result is to
transfer our import trade from Germany to
the u.S.A. we shall be no better off.
More about Ryan and price-fixing:—
Randolph Bedford in defence of Ryan (B.
23/1/19) says: “Queensland has cheap meat because
the Government not only has State shops but
keeps the price of cattle down by the ownership of
cattle.” Every pastoralist knows that the Queens-
land Government purchased the majority of its
cattle properties at very high prices, and that
these purchases, if anything, inflated an already
high market. The southern public thinks that
supplies for the State butchers’ shops are drawn
from the State stations. Nothing of the sort. The
meat is commandeered from the meatworks at under
cost (3id. per lb.), and so far no State station has
supplied State shops with meat, nor is ever likely
to do so at the 3td. rate. Ryan is too smait a
financier for that. The fat cattle off the State sta-
tions are sold to the private butchers through the
yards in Brisbane ; during the past three months any-
thing from 100 to 200 head of fat bullocks weekly
have been fetching sd. to 6d. per lb., which is a
record price for Queensland. Will Mr. Bedford,
M.L.C., explain how Ryan gets record high prices
and yet keeps prices down?
Friedrich Ebert, elected first president of
the German Republic, was a tailor. Scheide-
mann, the new Premier, has been Ebert’s
jackal since early in the war, and it is
worth noting that when he and Ebert went
to the Hague in December, 1916, to meet the
committee of the International Socialist
Bureau, the German Government had given
them passports. As one section iof the
Socialist party press put it: —
Tha amount of the public attention directed upon
Scheidemann had been due not only to the fact
that he was the spokesman for the largest section of
the German Social Democracy, but to the mystery
surrounding his relations with the Government.
If Ebert and Scheidemann (both of whom
voted solidly for the war budgets) were the
tools of the old military gang in 1916, the
chances are that they are not out of touch
with it in 1919.
S. Australia has at last been able to get
members for a Commission “to inquire into
matters relating to the purchase by the
Vaughan Government of a site for a mental
hospital at Enfiehi.” This means that
Styles, the member of the late Government
who has been made a scapegoat for its ex-
travagant land-purchases, gets a re-hearing.
The Chief Justice declined to be the Com-,
mission, and members of the State Parlia-
men have mostly asked to be excused. The
original idea was to have five members, but
Peake has had to be content with three —
Ilannaford (Council) and Blackwell and
South wood (Assembly).
The very first appeal to the League of
Nations which isn’t formed yet is by China,
a large, crumpled Ally, against Japan, a
small, vigorous one. It is, of course, a ques-
tion of disputed territory—one of the
prosaic but combustible matters that have
been hardly looked at in the haste to lay
the foundations of the Millennium. Pos-
sibly the Millennium may have to be ad-
journed. The Chinese envoys, by the way,
declare that while hastening to the Peace
Conference with their grievance their j apers
were, stolen out of their baggage. In these
stirring days an envoy who doesn’t carry his
documents inside his chest-protector gets
little sympathy.
.The arrival of troopships in South Aus.
with blue-banded Diggers has resulted in
the frequent closing of hotels. The Port
Adelaide working-
men have stood it
for some time, but
during a recent
heat-wave found it
impossible to get
through their work
without the usual
revivers. On a
day when the tem-
perature climbed to
104 deg. they de-
clared they would
in future refuse to
work under dry
conditions. S o
there will probably
be a strike when
the pubs are next
closed, which will
provide another cud
for this country of
many problems to
chew over.
SHIELDS, M.L.G.
for Launceston
(Tasmania).
As soon as the Hun republic had elected
President Ebert it got to work at legisla-
tion. The first act mentioned in the cable-
grams was—to provide for universal military
training!
About IS months ago a plucky German,
Karl Ludwig Krause, asked “What is the
German nation dying forV” And this is
how he answered the query:—
There is not a chord in the modern German’s
soul that could be made to quiver responsive to
the word liberty. If you mention liberty to a
German you find about as much comprehension as
if you were talking to a blind man about color.
Sometimes he answers back: “Why, we’re not locked
up in prison—we may walk about at large ! ”
Naturally Karl Krause had to seek refuge
in Switzerland. But in that immortal sen-
tence he had summarised the modern Ger-
man’s conception of liberty—“ Why, we’re
not in prison—we may walk about at large!”
SPEECH FROM THE THRONE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The King opened the thirty-first Parliament.
Addressing both Houses his Majesty said: “The
aspirations for a better social order, which have
been quickened in the hearts of my people by the
experience of the war, must be encouraged. Before
the war poverty, unemployment,- inadequate hous-
ing, and many remediable ills were existing in our
land, and these were aggravated by disunion... .We
must stop at no sacrifice of interest or prejudice
to stamp out unmerited poverty, to diminish unem-
ployment, mitigate its sufferings, and raise the
standard of well-being. .. .My counsels have been
strengthened and enlightened by the presence of
leading Ministers from my self-governing Dominions
and my Indian Empire. .. .The position of Ireland
causes me grave anxiety, but 1 earnestly hope that
conditions will soon be sufficiently improved to
make possible a durable settlement of this difficult
problem.”
Unwieldy Commons, led by Mister George
(Who represents a quarter of the voters,
And very few in mine and mill and forge),
And you, ye House of Lords and Ancient Doters,
I, George the Fifth, of Liberty the warder,
Find reason for a better social order.
Though, for a thousand years, the worker’s hovel
Stank in the nostrils of a hundred kings,
Though Labor, sweating rank with axe and shovel,
Fattened the landlords, and such thievish things;
Though squire or baron, as a thing of course,
Stabled his tenants, while he housed his horse ;
Though, while church organs pealed, the Christs of
Trade
Went to their slaughter for the profiteer;
Though, 10 enrich the rentlords, they have paid
The children’s bread that they had earned so
dear—•
Yet not till now could I discover any
Means to square famine with an extra penny.
We shirk no sacrifice of prejudice
That thinks the masses live quite well in sties;
For our new war-born, fear-born justice is
Heir to a thousand years of cruel lies ;
\\ a know that poverty and filth are wrong
(Since the poor know they’ve suffered them too
long).
My Indian Empire and My New South Wales!
My Queensland! My Australia! My Geelong!
Mv loyal Transvaal, whose love never fails;
My people from Ivalgoorlie to Toowong!
iy Montreal! My Winnipeg! And all
That's mine upon this great terrestrial ball;.
My Cawnpore and My Hobart! And indeed
My Doctor Gilruth and his Darwin siege:
These all are Mine, and shall be for My breed;
And even Goondiwindi hails Me Liege—
All My dominions, self-governing-,
My India that hails Me more than king.
From Greenland’s icy mounts to coral strand,
All, all are Mine, their peoples all are Me.
Each organ-grinder and each German band
Worship; although it acts distressingly
To find the heathen, in his blindness, own
Allegiance, and bow down to wood and stone.
Subject unto the House of Lords, the poor
I shall adopt, and Mile End-road be mine!
For I am lord of mountain, fen and moor,
And for My sake My Billy Hugheses shine ;
The people’s father I, though that faith shook
When I had knighted woolly-brained Joe Cook.
My Ireland causes Me grave apprehension.
My Carson’s such a mean, sectarian bloke,
So that some of My Irish people mention
A strong desire that Carson soon may choke;
But ’twould have caused My Ulster much abasement
Had I hanged Carson on a rope with Casement.
For Carson is of Great Respectability
(Though he bought guns, for civil war, from
Germans),
And he secures praises with great facility,
In Orange lodges and sectarian sermons;
So, till he dies, it must remain a dire land,
Because We are afraid to rule Our Ireland.'
But all My poor can make assurance certain
That they shall have as much as they can take
From the old social order, that was curtain
And mask for centuries of spoil and fake.
'Well stamp out poverty, and make homes decent—
But not too quick, for Justice is so recent.
So glad be, OMy peoples! lam I!
I see the obvious, after many years;
I see the masses’ spawn untimely die,
And Labor moisten bitter bread with tears ;
The while the opportunists and forestalled dine
On all the best in this great world of Mine.
QUEENSLAND.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


rt'--'
///////»„"■ fa fa"!.'.’-'*
V**%
i
7W*.
=&>_
r*'
s£s
17
S!
*£ss
> 'i. :
»HH
■>s
m
w
F"
IN
2^B
w&
Clbrol n ie
<Proof!
HERE is overwhelming evidence
of the Superiority and Popu
larity of PIANOLA PIANOS.
The New York Musical Courier , the accepted
authority of the Piano industry in America,
publishes the following: —
Out of the total of 861 the Pianola Company
imported nearly
450 Pianola Pianos
well over h&lf the total for
all Australasia.
These figures tell an eloquent story of superior
quality and outstanding approval of the music-
loving public of Australia.
PIANOLAS are obtainable in the following
nukes of pianos: STEINWAY, STECK,
Si ROUD, EOLIAN, and the Famous WEBER.
S
: ,v *V “
.* » 11. / *
o/?e
VicmrAa
GVhrJM.
384 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
252 Collins Street, Melbourne.
430 Queen Street, Brisbane.
58 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
SEND THIS COUPON TO THE PIANOLA COMPANY.
Please send me catalog of Pianola Pianos, showing how I
can purchase an instrument for cash or easy terms.
Name
Address
'B.” 1.


WARNING TO THE WEAK AND
NERVOUS.
THE DANGERS OF DRUGGING.
It seems so easy to take a small dose of
some drug and thereby secure relief from
pam, forgetfulness of worries and cares, or
tne sleep that has been long denied, but
just consider the awful consequences of this
mug-taking think how the habit grows.
±ne small dose soon becomes larger and
larger, and has to be taken with increasing
frequency. Thus drug slaves are made. But
because drugs are harmful it does not mean
that sufterers from neurasthenia, insomnia,
debility, failing strength, loss of weight, etc.
are to be denied comfort and relief. On the
contrary, it is quite likely such sufferers will
turn their attention to a product known as
otiro-phospliate, and as a consequence much
good will be done, for hitro-pliosphate gives
better results than any of the harmful or
dangerous drugs, yet no reaction or ill-effect
will follow its use. Moreover, it is within
the easy reach of all, for the tablets are now
stocked by high-class chemists everywhere.
One tablet taken with meals three times daily
soon strengthens weak nerves, increases vim,
health-ifv ii-J 1 *3L 1 fy ’ ? Dd . ensures refreshing,
fiSfllth {Jivjjig saight,-~~ApvT,
LOCO
Water Lifted 500 ft.,
Pumped a Mile,
at a cost of about id. per hour.
OUR FARM PUMP
ENGINE will do this as
well as cut chaff, saw
wood, work shearing-
machines, etc.. It can be
attached to a windmill of
almost any pump in three
minutes. Needs no mechanic
to fix or operate, and
works all day without
attention. Hundreds sold
and giving satisfaction.
£lO DOWN, BALANCE VERY EASY.
stife t vnfv ed "i 1 • Water su PP J y or irrigation
state 3 oui working conditions and we will
and* -Stea - Kerosene, Petrol
Hot An Engines, Centrifugal Pumps
Pnmn= M 'f ei s ’ 1. Gould ’ s ” and “Deming s”
and P w/t° r a n scrvi , cps - Mackie’s Rock
d B ° rer ’ 11 Workin S Heads and
specialty 3l de f P Well and bore Pumping a
WhilmVli, aT,? nse stocks Challenge
ffSnW w t6r Su P p! - v accessories,
tmftt lf req l ulred and give easy
terms. .Catalogues and expert advice free.
«»?«•! ® ros - ® Davies Pty. Ltd.
110-111. Sturt Street, SOUTH MELBOURNE,
Near Princes Bridge.
THe'TOP NOTCH srnrrH
A SAFE PROTECTOR
WHISKY
ABORIGINAUTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Billy T.”: The purple man from Hill’s
vinery told the story. “We was goin’ up river to
Green Bridge,” he said, “an’ about four miles above
Arthur’s we was hailed by a bloke sittin’ on the
bank. What was pe-culiar about this bloke was that
he was sittin’ on a chair. There wasn’t no house
adjacent, but he ’ad brung a ole-fasliioned rockin’-
chair along, ’n’ there he was perched under a
pep’mint-gum on a ’igh bit iv bank, rocking his-
self, ’n’ fannin’ the flies off with one iv them ’orse-
tail flippers. ‘Hello!’ sez ’e to hus, ‘’ave yell seen
the ole man?’ ‘Wot sort iv ole man?’ asks Connor,
slowin’ up. ‘Oil, just an ordin’ry ole man—-my ole
man, sez the bloke in the rockin’ chair, flappin his-
sel? with his flipper! “’Bout 70, grey-’eaded, chin
beard, ’n’ his ears pierced.’ No, we adn’t seen no
sich ole bloke—not to notice. ‘Y’ill know him by
lus ears bein’ pierced,’ shouts the bloke after us.
Me puts the night in et Oowther’s pub et Green
Bridge, >n’ gets back nex’ day. When we comes to
the same ole spot dash me if there ain’t the same
feller in the same rockin’-chair under the pep’mint
mppin’ hisself with his flapper to keep the flies off.
‘ ’Elio, you! ’ he yells. ‘ ’Ave yeh seen me ole
man V ‘The one with his ears pierced ?’ sez Connor.
That’s ’im,’ sez the bloke, gettin’ up out iv his
rockin’-chair a bit excited. ‘Well, we ain’t seen
him.’ ‘Oh!’ sez the bloke, ’n’ sits down in his
rockin’-chair ’n’ starts rockin’ hisself agin. ‘A bit
late, ain’t ’e?’ sez Connor. ‘Yes, he is!’ answers the
bloke- in the rockin’-chair. ‘They tell me they orter
come up after seven days.’ ”
“Doxite”: Does anyone know a sure
remedy for “shearer’s backache”? I’ve tried the
“hanging- to it” cure, but after a week seven devils
were still probing my kidneys with hot needles. I
haven’t robbed jumbuck since then, but that eight
notes a week looming in the distance is making me
ambitious.
* * * *
“Centurion”; Touching as it is I can’t
swallow “Gouger’s” tale (B. 23/l/’l9) of the faithful
thirsty steed which galloped away from his new-found
friends after slaking his thirst, to be found later
watching over the body of his dead master. I’ve
been among horses, breeding, buying and selling
them, taking them overland and overseas for 40
years, yet I’ve never seen or heard of a horse imi-
tating so closely one of the most striking character-
istics of the dog. No one has a higher opinion of
the Australian horse, his courage, honesty and endur-
ance and his attachment to a good boss, than I
have. But I can’t credit him with instincts foreign
to his kind.
* * * *
“Melaleuca”’: I have spent hours in
attempting to locate the species. It was once un-
known, but is now becoming a pest. It is spreading
all over Australia and in order that it may be
recognised I venture to describe and name it. It is
hereby designated Poleus poeticus websteri. The
species is usually to be found in the vicinity of
telegraph and telephone poles, there being about
five specimens to each upright. The first takes care
of some sort of motor conveyance—in addition to his
pipe. The second takes care of his pipe without
bothering about the motor. The third holds on to a
ladder and leans against the pole. The fourth is
usually coming down or going up the ladder. The
fifth is fairly ‘up the pole.” These gangs or tribes
seem to spend four or five days at one pole and
then move on to the next. I am sure that their habits
are worthy of detailed study and I feel certain that
they will be found to be closely related to the spiders
of the genus cobwebster.
* * * *
“Aquila”: Binghi’s chief use for the
quandong is to make bread of it: he first dries
the fruit and then grinds it to a fine powder.
I have eaten the fruit frequently, but never
found it bitter, and when I get an opportunity to
sample quandong pie I generally pass my bucket
along for a second shovelful.
* * * *
“Smith”: The Digger, noted for his re-
souice, has harnessed even the insect world to serve
his needs. Daresay you’ve heard of the wily warrior
who, to smuggle cigarettes to his cobber in the
dink in Egypt (where cigarettes meant meat and
drink, church and heaven) tied one fag to the back
of each of a dozen scarab beetles, No. 1 size, headed
them under the wire-netting and so delivered the
goods to his expiring pal within. It is also' a fact
that Diggers in the front line in France, hard up
for excitement, raced grey and black “chats” round
the inside of a spoon, and lost and won sheep
stations on the result.
THEY COULDN’T PULL HIS LEG.
“What sorter camouflage d'yer call that?
Any fool can see it’s an ’orse.”
The axe felled a giant jarrah at Welling-
ton Mills (W.A.) recently. It was 16ft. in girth at
e butt, and cut timber 60ft. in length. Few better
hardwouds have been lopped than this gem of the
A TERRIFIC TASK.
TEACHER: “The world’s silk is obtained from millions and millions of silk-worms.”
BILL, JUNIOR: My oath! What a big job for the shearers!”
“D. J. Mackinnon” : Let me introduce two
Abo. twins that were born on Cadelga station
(S. Aus.), 850 .miles from Adelaide and about
90 miles from Birdsville (Q.). Date of birth,
1904. This is the 011I3' pair I’ve ever heard of
being alive in any part of Australia.
* * * *
Melos’: The kookaburra tßinghi calls
him chacka-chacka) is a lazy blocjue. He will sit
on a fence or outbuilding
for hour:; at a stretch
like a dyspeptic owl, giv-
ing you the impression
that he is waiting for a
snake concealed under the
vvoodheap, when he is
really planning a burglary
at the hen-house. I have
rarely seen him attack
anything more formidable
than a slow-worm, and his
craftsmanship in this is
a long way behind that
of either the magpie or
butcher-bird. Certainly he
destroys large numbers of
harmful insects; but this
is discounted by the fact
that he purloins the eggs
of many birds whose
services are greater, such
as the tomtit, grey-thrush,
magpie-lark and others.
When the selector burns
off the surplus grass,
Jack and the butcher-bird
are usually first on the
scene -to snap up insects
roused by the fire; and
for every morsel secured
by the former a dozen
may be counted to the
credit of the latter. The
kookaburra’s laziness ex-
tends to matters of dress ;
his suit of grey, brown
and dirty-white has the
appearance of having- been
used as a doormat, a
striking contrast to the
well-groomed ultra-marine
and orange-red garments
of his small relative, the
blue kingfisher.
J - : Read somewhere the other day that
the term “gone west - ’ is of aboriginal North Ameri-
can origin. The writer gave instances of “the happy
Western land” of the Karok Indians of California,
the “ghost country” (the west) of the Cherokee
myths, the Shawnee boy who travelled west to find
his sister in the spirit land, and so on. But the
expression is probably world-wide. Up in Torres
(Continued on page 24..)
Strait, the natives always place their abode of de-
parted spirits in the west. Amongst some of the
islanders, the mari (soul, or ghost) of a deceased jour-
neyed to lvibu, an unknown island lying to the
west, though the ghosts returned and walked about
at night. But the majority of the Straits folk de-
fine the spirits’ resting-place as Boigu, the most
westerly of the islands, lying close up to New Guinea.
When the Haddon scientific party was out a few
years back it collected some of the old legends
regarding the “land of the west,” and one of the
party made the suggestion that the fact of the
islanders being a nautical peoDle may account for
their placing the land of the dead in the west, as
the ghosts would sail with the prevailing S.-E. wind
and not beat about to windward. “Kibrj,” the
same recorder says, means “sundown.” The influence
of sun-worship, and the analogy of death and sunset,
would anywhere account for the traveller’s final jour-
ney being given as “going west.”
* * *
Dook : This is how we discourage rab-
bits m the rough country of the South Coast
(N.S.W.). First trap a bunny, preferably in close
proximity to a large burrow. Attach prisoner to a
plug of gelignite. Fix your detonator and short
length of fuse and light. The rabbit dues the rest ;
making for the burrow like a flick of lightning. In
rough country, where burrows are scattered but
thickly populated, it is an excellent if somewhat
bloodthirsty method of wholesale destruction.
* * *
“Gidji”: The abo. retains his sense of
humor. At Nyrgan (N.S.W.) recently a hoar:
old blackfellow, pipe in hand, approached three
whites chatting on the footpath. One of the latter
was bareheaded, and as bald as a pie-melon, and
to him Billy said, with a sly glance at the place
where the wool ought to be, “Say, boss, my pipe
bin all choked up, gib it hatpin.” C 1 another
occasion the writer came across Mary near the
Mission Reserve, Brewarrina. She was accompanied
by a fierce looking mongrel of debatable breeding.
Asked if he would bite, she replied: “Well, Mister,
s pose you bring bottle whisky alortga camp, him
no bark, no bite. Half a bottle p’r’aps him bark,
but no bite. No whisky, by eripes, him bite like”
' ' But I didn’t stay for the rest.
* * #
H.V.E.”: Whether the English cuckoo
IS abroad in Australia has of late been agitating the
minds of bird-men, some of whom declare that
the bird’s call is often heard at night or late in
the evening. It would be no easy matter to bring
an insectivorous bird like the cuckoo over 12,000
miles. The diet question would be a stumbling-
block. I think that the boobook owl is the fowl
responsible for the error. None of our native
cookoos have a call-note in the least resembling
“cuckoo.”
“I DON’T MIND IF I DO.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Lanky legs and a lanky face ;
An empty purse; a heart of gold;
A thousand-gallon thirst; a trace
Of courteousness; a voice that rolled
Like rumbling- thunder—this was old
“I-don’t-mind-if-I-do.”
We never knew his name. He swore
That once he’d owned a fleet of them,
But they had foundered long before—
Had fought and foundered in some grin,
Battle of booze. We called him Jim
“I-don’t-mind-if-l-do.”
He leaned against the bar of life
And dreamed of rum by night and day.
,Rum was his sweetheart and his wife;
His vei-y glance got dancing-gay
Whenever he’d a chance to say:
“I don’t mind if I do.”
He dreamed his dream of paradise—
An island in a sea of rum;
No closing time; no talk of price;
No pause in the celestial hum
Of voices murmuring still: “By Gum I
I don’t mind if I do.”
One evening Death came sauntering by
And mumbled “Come and have a drink.”
Jim heaved no sentimental sigh;
He did not even stop to think,
But laughed at Death, and passed the wink:
“I don’t mind if I do.”
He took the swill and swallowed it;
The world went whizzing past his head;
At first he thought he’d had a fit,
And then he felt extremely dead ;
But with his faltering breath he said:
“I don’t mind if I do.”
Then all at once he found that he
Was plodding up the starry way.
As lonesome as a bloke could be
He padded on day after day,
Without the slightest chance to say:
“I don’t mind if I do.”
At last the thought occurred him
That somehow this was not the track;
Certainly not the track for Jim.
He paused and thought he’d pad it back
To where a Jim could word a Jack
“I don’t mind if I do,”
But then he saw the barbed-wire fence
And five-barred gate of Paradise;
A grandstand, vacant and immense;
And Peter trying hard to splice
A broken wire. Jim thought: “What price!
I don't mind if I do!”
He sauntered over to the gate
And banged and clanged the broken bell.
The old man turned his ancient pate
And stared, and grumbled: “Go to Hell!”
Jim grinned and said: “Oh, very well,
I don’t mind if I do.”
MAORILAND.
BARTLETT ADAMSON.


PALING’S PIANOS
Honestly and Faithfully Constructed Throughout
BEHNINQ
Player Piano.
America’s most artistic
Player Piano. Beauti-
ful tone-quality, easy
pedalling, lightning
responsiveness and
marvellous expression
devices. Transposes
five semi-tones.
ESTEY
Piano, Model B.
Specially recommended
for hot climates.
Stands in tune for very
long periods. Delight-
ful in tone and a light
responsive touch. Sold
fully guaranteed.
BEHNINQ
Sheraton Grand.
Possessesa remarkably
full and resonant tone
of liquid purity and
resonance, and a touch
which is perfection it=
self. Undoubtedly an
artist’s Piano.
VICTOR
Academy Piano.
Renowned throughout
Australia for its re-
markable durability.
Pure sweet tone-
quality ; artistic in ap-
pearance ; soundly and
solidly made through-
out. Fitted with three
pedals.
SAZVLES
Boudoir Grand.
A small and compact
Grand eminently suit-
ed for the home where
space is limited. De=
lightful in Tone and
Touch. The durability of
this instrument isassured.
BRITISH MADE.
Any of these beautiful instruments may be purchased on Easy Terms, if required.
Catalogues free. Your present piano taken as part payment and full value allowed .
W. H. PALING CO. LTD.,
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at BRISBANE, TOOWOOMBA, LISMORE and NEWCASTLE.
HAVE YOU WATER TO PUMP?
If so, why not let the “Little Giant” solve your problem? It will prove invaluable now and will save you endless
“ Little Giant ”
(illustrated to the left) is the most practical and efficient pumping outfit ever constructed. Manufactured especi-
ally for Australian conditions. Pumps 275 to 1200 gallons of water per hour. Comprises: A high-grade 2-b.h.p.
water-cooled engine and a substantial, all-metal pump jack with high-grade cut gears and white-metal bearings,
all built into one compact outfit ready to attach to bore or windmill instantly. Will give long years of satisfactory
service at a minimum cost of upkeep. Price of outfit complete, as illustrated, £47/10/-
Write us how much water you require, height and distance to be pumped, and we will send full particulars of an
outfit for the purpose.
worry m years to come.
The
Have
You Wood to Saw?
The “Little Wonder”
Sawing Set
makes wood-cutting a pleasure. Will cut enough wood
in a day to last six months. The most compact, satisfac-
tory and economical sawing set ever constructed. Comprises
a “Little Wonder” 2-b.h.p. engine, all-steel tilting saw-
bench, 20in. circu-
lar saw, and all
belting complete.
The outfit can be
supplied, complete
ready for work, for
less than
£5O.
Have You Chaff to Cut?
The
“ChafFcutting Set”
(illustrated below) is a favorite all over Australia.
Fitted with 3-b.h.p.
engine, and both
engine and chaff-
cutter are the finest
that money and
brains can produce.
One of these outfits
will pay for itself
after a very short
time in use. The
engine, with chaff-
cutter, including
driving pulley, belt-
ing, etc., can be
purchased complete
for less than
£9O.
Larger or smaller outfits of the same high quality can be supplied at
similar fair prices.
If you are interested in any of these outfits, or require eneine-nower for any purpose, write us to-day
and w r e will forward full particulars by return mail.
COOPER ENGINEERING CO. LTD.,
134 Sussex Street, SYDNEY. 486 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Clark & Fauset Brisbane, Queensland; Sidney Williams & Co., Rockhampton, Queensland; Australasian Implement & H.F. Co., Adelaide, S.A.; G. P.
Harris Scarfe & Co. Ltd. Perth, W.A.; New Zealand Loan & M. A. Co. Ltd., Rockhampton, Townsville and Hughenden, Queensland; W. Hart & Sons,
Launceston, Tasmania; Buchanan Davidson Ltd., Hobart, Tasmania.


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE—
-129 FITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
Van der Talks Cocoa Essence
ABSOLUTELY PURE AND SOLUBLE,
rianufactured in Australia from the finest selected Beans.
A Square Meal In Every Cup o ”
Obtainable all Leading Grocers throughout the Commonwealth and N.Z.
Wholesale only from McINTYRE BROS., Sole Proprietors, Melbourne, Vic.
Agents: Mr. J. P. WILSON, Brisbane.
Mr. DAVID BLASHKI, Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Messrs. MADDOX & LAWRENCE, PERTH.
Mr. W. R. IANGSFORD, ADELAIDE.
[2
“Melos”: An Abo. writer, commenting on
the merits and demerits of our birds, said that the
quail is of no economic value. I beg to contradict.
Investigations in tick-infested country prove that
quail destroy large numbers of the pest. When we
realise the enormous looses sustained by cattle-
A DOG’S LIFE.
FIRST BILLJIM : “Look at
them poor dogs!
They’ve been druggin ’
guns about all through
the war, an’ now
they’ve got to go back
to pullin’ the milk.”
SECOND BILLJIM: “Same
’ere, Bill, same ’ere.”
owners through the tick scourge (it is estimated that
in Queensland alone, during seven years, the damage
amounted to £3,500,000, irrespective of the serious
diminution of annual increase and depreciation of
the herds) we should appreciate the services of any
ally on our side. Quail destroy other noxious insects,
particularly the wire-worm and a species of weevil
that is untouched by most insectivorous birds. I’ll
“shout” him a long beer any day.
» * » *
“Pick”: “Nimrod” (B. 23/l/’l9), who
trumpets about a properly made boomerang being
just a flat crescent without warp or twist, evidently
never witnessed a boomerang-throwing competition.
At Wallaga Lake Abo. Reserve (N.S.W.) some time
ago I helped to promote such a contest. Prizes
were offered for distance throwing, fancy flights, and
best come-back. For days before the sports the
Mission Station armorers were busily employed in
giving “plenty p’feller” twist to the blade ends
of the weapons. They did this by alternate damp-
ing, heating and pressure. Boomerangs required for
long flights were only slightly crescent-shaped and
had less sweep, but those wanted for the principal
event, the come-back stakes, were almost right-
angled, and had a very pronounced curl,
left or right, according to the throwing hand used
by the competitor. Almost every darkie on the
station, including many gins, competed, and it
was easily apparent that those with the most skil-
fully made boomerangs did the best throwing and
won the most baeca.
* * * *
“Bill R.”: Some fellow (B. 23/l/’l9)
begs to be informed if the queen bee sends out
scouts to find a new home when the colony is about
to trek. She doth. And the swarm travelling to
the pre-selected new abode is the one that you cannot
induce to call in on the way. You may ring them
down and box them comfortably, but assuredly they
will take flight again on the following day, unless
a frame of brood comb from another hive is placed
with them. No swarm will ever forsake brood
comb. The newly-captured swarm that settles down
in a home not previously chosen by its scouts has
been unexpectedly evicted from its former resi-
dence, and has no definite destination. The bees
therefore cluster on to anything handy, and send
out scouts from there.
* * * *
“John Gunn”: Re those mysterious foot-
prints described by “Myall” (B. 14/11/’18) and
“Hay’s” subsequent explanation that they were the
work of Binghi. If “Hay” can induce any blackboy to
go near the lagoon where the footprints are I’ll lift
my lid to his powers of persuasion. Binghi is too
scaled of the bunyip. The lagoon is 30 miles from
St. George (Q.), on the banks of the Balonne River,
and within R. Willis’s selection. It was he who
discovered the tracks, and they are still a mystery
to us all.
“Goonah-Goorak”: Talking about native
fruits, try the wild plum, commonly called the
Burdekin plum. The fruit is red, and if k.ept a few
days after becoming ripe, is very good eating. The
quandong is meagre, tart and not to be compared
with the wild plum.
“Hay”: The abo. spinning-wheel described
by “G.A.” (B. 16/1/’l9) was quite a common sight
50 years ago. I often saw Binghi engaged in manu-
facturing yarn. The wheel used was a very simple
contrivance fashioned out of five pieces of stick.
Four pieces about five inches long were fastened
together to form a square, with the ends projecting
far enough to keep the yarn from slipping off. Then
another length, about 15 inches, was fixed across the
middle of the square and the wheel was complete.
The spinner operated the machine by rolling the
centre stick between the palm of the hand and the
knee. One twirled the stick while another fed the
yarn, which was the hair of a small grey rat separ-
ated from the skins by a sweating process. The yarn
produced was about the thickness of coarse worsted
and was plaited into a flat belt or girdle which sup-
ported the abo.’s sole garment—a kind of Highlander’s
sporran, formed of elaborately twisted and knotted
cords of different thicknesses. The spinning was a
tedious job, but in Binghi’s opinion the result was
worth the trouble. A warlike tribe inhabiting the
country about Lake Frome, known as Purnappas,
greatly disliked and feared by the more peaceable
tribes, all wore the home-spun rat’s-hair sporran—
men and women alike.
* * * *
“Blackboy” : On the way from Peak Hill
(W.A.) to Mt. Gould we passed Mt. Fraser. Peter,
my nig., who had been reared in that part, but
had not been there for 14 years, saw some native
tracks and said, “See Mailman and Jenny walk
about here catchem kangaroo.” I asked him how
he knew. “See ’em track,” said Peter; “I know
him, me can’t miss that pfeller.” I didn’t believe
him, but a bit further on we came upon Mailman
and his woman cooking a ’roo. I asked Mailman
how long since he saw Peter, and he replied, “Oh,
not since he been little-feller piccaninny.” It turned
out that the two blacks had not seen each other
since they were boys, and at this time they were
both well over 25.
* * * *
“Prilled Lizard”: To make a good boomer-
ang get the spur of a tree, one having as much
circle as possible. Cut it to the required width and
length. Then make one side dead flat and the
reverse side slightly round, tapering off to almost
flat on the tips. If the boomerang is now thrown
end over end, which is the right way of throwing,
it will stick into the ground and in nine cases
out of 10 will break. Now throw it on its flat side
(round side up) and it will rise straight into the
air, and drop at the back of you or to the right of
you. . Now, if, instead of throwing the missile in its
straight shape after making, you boil it for one
hour, then put a “lift” into it by twisting the
planes, one opposite to its fellow, you have the
genuine article. Boiling makes the wood pliable.
Throw it, end over end, at a height of about four
feet from the ground. It will now go 50 yards or
more, still end over end, according to the pace
thrown, then turn, right itself and travel in a complete
circle back to the thrower in the form of a spinning
disc. I have made hundreds of boomerangs, but the
only successful ones were those with the lift. I have
one now that, when thrown in the manner described,
will make a circle (sometimes two) of a six-acre
paddock, and never fail to return. The blacks
used the straight ones for killing purposes only. The
best wood to make a boomerang is either black
apple or myall, these woods being both heavy and
tough.
# * * *
M(“North ; In most South Sea islands
where the puri-puri man is a numerous evil, the
practise of witchcraft has been made an offence
punishable by imprisonment, but convictions are
hard to secure because of the fact that witnesses
are afraid of what will happen when the sorcerer
comes out of gaol, burning with desire to be
avenged. There was an old charlatan named
Lamao, who, for years successfully defied the
efforts of several magistrates and detachments of
native constabulary to land him. Everybody knew
that he had accumulated much wealth in trade-
tobacco, calico, jews’ harps, hurricane-lamps and
other gear by the simple process of promising
mysterious illness and sudden death to those who
reiused to shell out. He was shrewd enough to
see to it that a threatened disaster arrived in due
course. At last, one magistrate, tired of many
dreary journeys through sagosswamps and man-
grove mud to collect witnesses who failed to give
the evidence he wanted in the court, decided to
dispense with the custom of confronting the
accused with his accusers. Lamao was carefully
shepherded in the gaol compound while the wit-
nesses were lined up in the court. They confessed
that fear of the puri-puri man getting his own
back was the cause of their reticence. The magis-
trate promised them that if they disgorged all they
knew, they would never need to fear Lamao any
more. Lamao would be hanged. The evidence then
poured forth was such as to warrant the wizard’s
committal for trial before a Judge. Lamao got ten
years, and the magistrate applied for a transfer
to another island. The ten years are not yet up,
but I reckon there is going to be something of a
disturbance in the region of Lamao’s home village
when he is released.
* * * *
“Te Whare”: The wonga-pigeon (men-
tioned by “E.S.S.”) is not solely an eater of seeds
and fruits. It is also largely insectivorous, and
therefore well meriting the period of absolute pro-
tection which the Legislature has accorded it. One
often finds this plump grey-blue fowl scratching for
crawlers (some very destructive to timberl among
dead leaves, and debris, mostly in dense scrubs and
jungles, though the bird also haunts open spaces at
evening in quest of thistle and other seeds. It is
partial, too, to white-ants (termite), and assists the
yellow-throated Scrub-wren (devil-bird) in polishing
off armies of this terribly destructive pest. The
flesh of the wonga is inferior to that of the bronze-
wing and certain other breeds, being rather dry. The
wonga, by. the way, differs from all wild pigeons in
that it builds a fairly neat nest, while other species
deposit their two elongated white egg 3 on mere
platform of twigs. With the wonga the slender up-
right boughs and saplings of the willow are
favorite nesting sites.
“Melos”: “Rexicorn” (B. 23/1/T9), in
pointing out the difference between the legless lizard
and the snake, says that in the former the tongue
is more or less fixed and ordinary, and the ears
exposed. This is not correct. Most members of
the Pygopodidm family have a long', extensible tongue,
and in one—the little slow-worm —the ears are
completely hidden. Burton’s is perhaps the most
snake-like of the lot. Its head is long with sharp
snout ; tongue, bifid; length to over 20 inches;
color, grey, brown, reddish or yellowish. This
species is found 111 over Australia, New Guinea
and the islands of Torres Strait.
* * * *
“D.F.” : The platypus is an accommodating
sort of bird, or fish, or whatever it is, and makes
itself at home in all sorts of places. In the Speck
I have netted one at sea-level in the decidedly
brackish waters of a sand-barred creek, and it is
also common enough in thf lakes on the high table-
lands, some of witch are over 4000 ft above the sea.
It manages to scratch a living even in small hollow
lakes, hardly more than big waterholes, which freeze
hard in winter.
IN VIEW OF RECENT PRICES.
“Mother sez will you send up five bob’s worth of meat, an’ if there’s nobody at home will
you kindly push it under the door?”
THE BEST OF A BAD JOB.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Twas Nagel whispered Bill the Beat
Of beer bestowed in Carrol’s stable,
And how surcease from thirst and heat
Was to be won. “If one is able
To break in there,” said he, “he gains
A brimming barrel for his pains.”
That night the neighbors heard a call,
And rushing in were told by Carrol
Of one who’d broke his stable wall
And stove the head in of a barrel,
And in the liquor soused was found,
All doubled up and nearly drowned.
They spread the victim on the ground,
Tried artificial respiration,
And presently, when Bill came round,
He thanked none for his preservation,
But to the hen-house wall he crept,
And leaned his face on it and wept.
He said he’d bored the hard wall through,
And broached the butt, and found just water.
“But,” ventured Jimmy Carrol, “you
No call had to attempt self-slaughter!”
“And so have had my trouble just
For nix?” growled Bill in deep disgust.
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


&
m
2*t
ft
5 % f
(1M
m
Cig'arettes of the Hig'hest Class
at Moderate Prices.
CIGARETTES
The quality of these hig'h-class Cig'arettes
is exactly the same as before the war
NO SUBSTITUTE
V:'
whatever being used in their manufacture.
The Famous Red Packet
No. 333. lO f ° r 3d.
STANDARD WEIGHT.
Obtainable of all High-class Tobacconists and Stoves thvoughout A ustvalasia.
Sole Manufacturers: ARDATH TOBACCO CO. LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND
II
V
A
w
m


a \
J If \
YOU are advised to
stay away from crowds
Well, anyway, TWO make jolly
good company—you and your
(GBD)
D
Sweet=smoking Briar Pipe,
Co-operate with the Government—
wear your mask outdoors !
Othertimes: SfIOKE AS OFTEN
AS YOU CAN!
MAN* POPULAR SHAPES IN GBD PIPES.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
rn BeiE
i
use
Plume
/ * / \ 4\
A'WWW
raja
s/\/iM V & t s ''' s t W\x\>
S'\
i«
< W w
[C.K-C
OXJ.
can K.&9pan
appointment on time
with, this Reliable Spirit
in our Tank-
THOUSANDS of Motorists
appreciate its reliability and its
bonest uniform service—day in,
and day out. They say Plume
doesn’t jib on the hills. It doesn't
let them down when they are in a
hurry. They are sure of getting
there with Plume in the tank.
When next you are going to fill
up, turn in at the dealer with the
Plume Sign.
Don’t ask for Benzine—say Flume.
VACUUM OIL COY. PTY LTD.—
vHrfer*-
P 5
probably half of the so-called retail trade is done
at a discount varying from 10 to 15 per cent ?
Schools and colleges (and staffs), libraries and
institutions, Government departments, etc., all get
their discounts. I cannot enter into a discussion
of other houses’ terms, but the fact is that the
acceptance of author’s books on commission has
always been a bogey and a nuisance to the trade,
and is in nine cases out of ten a cause of loss to
the booksellers.
As to the treatment of authors by Australian
publishers, there are, of course, two sides to every
story, hut I must state flatly that I have never
been a party to any injustice to an author, and
in a publishing- experience of nearly 20 years have
not met with a case of unfair treatment of an
author by any firm of standing and repute. Taking
into consideration the difference in population and
possible sale—and in spite of the much higher cost of
production—royalties paid by Australian houses are
at least as high as those paid by English and
American firms, whilst the other terms and con-
ditions are much easier in Australia.
Finally, ‘‘O.L.’s” gibe at publishers and parasites
is futile.' By the same “logic,” manufacturers
and retailers of boots and shoes are parasites upon
the leather industry.
H. Heaton, regarding the “Keeling Let-
ters” (B. 16/1/’l9) :
According to the Red Page „ Keeling was a
“Socialist and reformer of the condescending and
dress-suit variety,” “a rather stereotyped kind of
local bounder true to pattern a perfect
sample, like the gentleman in the barber’s window
or the milliner’s lady figure with the new corset
on” ; a prig, but “his death proves conclusively
that prigs are not bullet-proof.” All cheap and
nasty and untrue. Keeling was one of the biggest
men of his generation—a man of tremendous energy
and ability in every task he undertook, whether
exploring rules of personal conduct or the decasual-
ising of dock labor; fearless and frank, with abso-
lutely no “side” ; intensely human in his virtues
and vices; a lover of all men except the prig;
a diligent seeker of truth and a hater of cant or
stupid convention. He loved beer as much as
Chesterton does; his swearing had all the artistic
roughness of a Rodin masterpiece; and he was as
much at home with a group of newspaper-boys or
dock-laborers as with the intellectuals of the Webb
circle. He was the most human civil servant 1
ever knew, and fought hard to rid his Labor
Exchange of red tape. When he found the tape
was too strong, he threw up his post, sacrificing
thereby a certain chance of becoming a “brass
hat” in the Board of Trade. His work on juvenile
labor and industrial legislation made him probably
the biggest authority in Europe (if not the world)
on matters relating to State regulation of employ-
ment. Had he wished, he could have found a
safe job in any of the war departments, especially
those concerned with wages, labor conditions and
welfare, and to-day he would have been advising
the Commission on International Labor Regulation.
Instead of taking the chances offered him, he en-
listed in Aug., 1914, and, “prig” that he was,
refused repeated offers of a commission because this
would have cut him off from intimate intercourse
with the lumpers, miners and mechanics with
whom he had learnt soldiering. As a sergeant he
fought his men’s battles and protected them from
petty punishments at the hands of the subalterns,
whilst using his pen to voice real grievances in
the columns of the New Statesman. Keeling- was
a friend of Rupert Brooke, and his death was as
great a loss to the cause of social and industrial
reform as Brooke’s death was to modern poetry.
A Satchel of Books
Over the German Lines, by “Wings” (Hodder
and Stoughton). Most of the sketches in this book
are reprinted from English papers. The yarns are
straightforward and graphic,' and the author wastes
few words. Emotions and feelings don't count, but
the plain events are set down in a way that leaves
room for imagination to fill the gaps.
The Secret Life of the Ex-Tsaritza, by William
Le Queux (Melville and Mullen Pty., Melbourne).
The Baroness Zeneide Tzankofr, maid of honor and
confidant of the Empress, told these things to the
author. The plot in which the great lady was
involved with the Kaiser dated back to the time
of the Russo-Japanese war. Some of it may be
true; all of it may be true; but the interest in
these thing's begins to wane. In point of dramatic
and historical value the Tsaritza’s schemes are not
much more important than the gossip of the green-
grocer’s wife.
While Paris Laughed,, by Leonard Merrick (Hod-
der and Stoughton). Sketches of Bohemian life in
modern Paris, done by a man with a brilliant pen
and a genuine sense of humor. The yarns centre
round Tricotrin, an uncompromising genius with a
garret full of rejected poems and plays. There is
not a page witliout a sparkle in it.
Sister Matty and Co., by Robert Holmes (William
Blackwood and Sons, Edinburgh). Sister Matty is
Private Godber, and Robert Holmes is a police
court missioner. Readable stuff with an occasional
lilt and some characterisation. The author claims
that it is true; but if he didn’t it would pass
as fair fiction. The characters are mostly ex-
convicts.
Life in a Tank, by Richard Haigh (Hodder and
Stoug'hton). There is a good deal about tanks
here, but very little about living in them. A
liather ordinary war book by a man with more
courage than vision.
The Price of a Throne, by Joseph Hocking (Hodder
and Stoughton, London). Athene has disappeared
from Athens and John has to find her. The yarn
circles round the Greek situation, as the news-
papers represented it, before Tino was chased off the
throne. Easy fiction with little punch.
White Magic, by Stewart Edward White (Hodder
and Stoughton). A woman shoots a lion when
it is about to eat her husband. Big game and
adventure that might gladden a large boy’s heart
and a yarn told with a directness that makes it
at least half-convincing.
A Child’s Book of English Portraits (Philip Lee
Warner, London). Here you have a finely pro-
duced portrait gallery running from Richard 11. to
General Roberts, and taking people like Milton and
Nelson on the road. A capital book for a student
of history aged 16. The plates are in color and
from well-known paintings.
The Rough Road, by W. J. Locke (John Lane,
London). “Doggie” has been brought up by a shelter-
ing mother who has made him utterly effeminate.
1-Ie has a frightful time winning back to manhood
in the great war. There is a lot of charm about
the writing, even if the tale doesn’t convince.
Roads to Freedom; Socialism, Anarchism and
Syndicalism is by Bertrand Russell, who states that
he was largely assisted by his friend Hilderie
Cousens. Bertrand Russell seems a feather-bed kind
of anarchist who hopes for the polite destruction of
all existing arrangements. As it has never happened
that all arrangements have been upset at once it
is impossible to say how the thing would act. Still
Bertram, upborne by Hilderic, has that faith which
can remove mountains, but never does it. (George
Allen and Unwin, Ltd., London.)
The Inky Way
It was George Rich, now Justice Rich,
of the High Court, and Laurie Armstrong,
now Judge Armstrong, of the N. S. Wales
District Court, who founded Hermes, the
Sydney Uni. magazine.
Roy Mervyn Myers, a Newcastle-Annan-
dale boy, who ran the Fiji Times when he
was 21, and afterwards pushed a pen in the
Honolulu papers, now sits at the “local”
desk in the San Francisco Examiner office
—a meteoric rise for a youngster.
Australian pressmen and printers are at
last to become industrial brothers, an agree-
ment between the A.J.A. and the Printing
Industry Union being now under considera-
tion by the various branches of the two
bodies. The agreement, which provides for
co-operation in the attainment of benefits,
and declares for conciliation and arbitration,
has been endorsed by the central councils, so
there is little doubt of its acceptance by all
parties.
“L.L.W.” : While waiting for the boat at
Tathra (N.S.W.), I chummed up with a
withered old Californian miner who had
been after wolfram near Bega. When he
hauled out a photo of “a dead mate of
his”—a big, bearded cowboy dressed like
Deadwood Dick on a holiday—l wasn’t
much interested until I saw the sprawling
signature on the back: “Joaquin Miller,
February, 1900.” The ancient Yank talked
of the dead poet with a queer mixture of
amusement and reverence. Cincinnatus
Heine were Miller’s front names before he
threw them over for Joaquin. A v ' e , _
pioneer, he married a squaw after tig , g
on the reds’ side against U.S.A. sold •
Raised a family while living With
Indians. Raised also a monument to s o
(his pet hero) before his home in Cali 01 • •
Great Bible student, Miller used to lau S
heartily over his trips to London, aDtl 9°."
fessed “I used to play silly pranks on t eir
carpets just to shock them out ol . t ien
smugness.” The poet was glad to return
fo California after being lionised in
land. Found out that the very people who
exhibited him in their drawing-rooms nua
never read a line of his verse. VV a_s at
Ivlondyke in 1897 and the Orient m 1»J .
Attempted to realise his socialistic ideas in
a community on his Californian estate about
1888-89. Was Judge in Grant County from
his 24th to his 28th year. Repeatedly said
that the Indians had been foully treated,
and that the pioneers deserved all they got
from the red-skins.
“S.T.S.”: In case you overlooked it —for
very few people will rand all the 748 pages
of ‘Wells’s new book, “ Joan and I et-er
on page 644 some lively American
get talking, and among other things ot bam
Hughes and Hughes the Australian, and
whether every country has the Hughes it
deserves.” No answer is supplied to the
question.
Book-illustrating loses by the death of J.
Byam Shaw, who has dropped the pencil at
46. Born at Madras, India, in ’72, Shaw
went to England as a boy and was a student
in the Royal Academy schools in ’B9. He
first exhibited at the Academy in ’93. His
distinctive work included the Chiswick edi-
tion of Shakspeare, Browning’s poems,
‘ Boccaccio,” and the “Pilgrim’s Progress,”
Poe’s “Tales of Mystery and Imagination”
and Reade’s “The Cloister and the Hearth.”
“394” : Put up the shutters last Decem-
ber, the Kia Ora Coo-ee, the official maga-
zine of the A.I.F. and N.Z.E.F. in Palestine.
But it is to have a sort of resurrection, ts
first editor, just discharged from a Sydney
hospital, is preparing to publish the Dig-
gers’ Magazine, which will be run on the
same lines and with the assistance of many
of the same soldier-writers and artists.
“Chev”: Big, bushy-whiskered E. C.
Buley, who is well remembered on the
Australian Inky Way, is now comfortably
seated in the Daily Sketch building in
Shoe Lane, London, the metropolitan head-
quarters of the Hulton publications which
include the Sunday Chronicle, Sporting
Chronicle, Evening Standard, Daily
Dispatch, Sunday Herald, Ideas (this is
looked after by Buley), Empire, and other
papers. Hulton, the head of the firm, is a
hard-headed Lancashire man, a good boss
to a good man, and a keen business rival of
the Northcliffe press quartered at Carmelite
House. He’s a sportsman, too, and loves
nothing quite so much as breeding a classic
winner or a Waterloo Cup dog.
PHILANDERING BARDS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He wrote his verse to Myra’s eyes,
Dark, Oriental, strangely vdse:
To Myra’s eyes—so deep, they seemea
To hold all things the sages dreamed,
But were two wells
Where no truth dwells.
His Theda scans a line.
“What creature’s this?” she fiercely cries.
“If you must write of someone’s eyes,
Why can’t you write of mine?”
He sang of Lydia a song
That kept him tied a whole night long—■
Of gracious Lydia who rose
From this bleak earth in perfect pose,
A fine white stone
That stands alone
In some great wilderness.
His Theda reads the flagrant crime.
“Of course you couldn't write a rhyme
On what shape I possess!”
He makes a ballad rather neat
To pretty Ivy’s little feet;
And Theda weeps. She much prefers
That he should rhyme with feet of hers.
He sings of Grace,
Her lovely face,
And fiercely Theda slaps his.
And so we married poets fall.
And pay by night and day for all
Our literary lapses.
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


GRATITUDE.
e
1
/
c
t
Spill
.c>
m
\
5F
y
y
%
wW
FOR SERVICES RENDERED
wm C e°“ V s erter 0f raw material into the finisied P™ d -‘- ‘he space of one year a hen
To do this it is obvious-that she must have proper food.
ss* ssz w *• ■*-*-*»
Meggitt Limited’s contains 31 per cent, protein, and will give maximum results at a minimum cost.
EQUALLY EFFECTIVE FOR ALL CLASSES OF STOCK.
Pamphlet No. 2, instructing how to feed, mailed free.
Full particulars from Agents. Messrs. Harrisons, Ramsay Ltd fififi R„ n *„ <st„ ( , T
Messrs. Clarkson Limited, Adelaide; Messrs. W. Adams & Coi’Perth- jw rs F J W n o "?*' Messrs. R. S. Exton & Co., Queen Street, Brisbane;
J ***’“» iueB »rs. jh. w. Heritage & Co., Launceston and Hobart; or
M EGG ITT LTD.
'VORKS s PARRAMATTA.
(THe Pioneer Linseed Oil and Linseed Oil Meal
Manufacturers of Southern Hemisphere),
26 Ring' Street, SYDNEY
UNStmotifty
m
nEccmr
PARRAMATTA
The Boy on the Bag
guarantees quality .


A. Saunders’ Diamonds and
Pearl set Necklet. 15et. Cold,
£lO.
All Diamonds, £l5.
A. Saunders’ pure double
cut Diamond-set Linl>s,
loot. Gold, £3/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure
double-c u t Dia-
mond Cluster Ring,
18ct. Gold,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure double-cut Diamond knife-edge
Bar Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £25. Smaller Diamonds,
£2O, £l5.
A. Saunders’ pure double-cut Diamond Cluster
Bracelet, 15ct. Gold, £25.
A. Saunders’ pure double-cut Diamond Brooch
15ct. Gold, £5.
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Diamond
Pendant, 15et. Gold,
£25.
A. Saunders’ pure
double-c u t Di a-
n o n d Single-stone
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£2O.
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Diamond
Boat-shape Ring,
18ct. Gold,
£7/10/-
Smaller Diamonds,
£5.
JEWELLER,
805-815 GEORGE STREET,
A. SAUNDERS’ DIAMOND JEWELLERY.
A. Saunders’
pure double-cut
Diamond Scarf
Pin, 15ct. Gold,
£2/10/-
A. Saunuers’- pure
double-e u t Dia-
mond Circle
Brooch, 15ct.
Gold, £6/10/-
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold pure double-cut diamond-set
Expanding Wristlet Watch, full jewelled lever movement, £3O.
Others, £2O, £25. Larger Diamonds, £35, £4O.
MS
A. Saunders’ pure double-cut Diamond Brooch, 15ct. Gold,
£5/10/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
mond Necklet,
15ct. Gold,
£5/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure
double-c u t Dia-
Spray Circle
Brooch, 15ct.
Gold, £3/15/-
A. Saunders’ Dia-
monds and Rubies
or Sapphire half-
hoop Kina'. 18ct.
Gold, £7/10/-
ft'
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Diamond
Ear-rings, 15ct.
Gold, £B/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure
Diamond Half-hoop
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£5/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure
double-c u t Dia-
mond Cluster Ring,
18ct. Gold. £25.
A. Saunders’ Lady's Solid Gold pure double-cut
Diamond-set Expanding Wristlet Watch, full-jewelled
lever movement, £2O. Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold
Links, set Diamonds,
£4/10/-
Lararer Diamonds,
£5/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure double-cut Dia-
monds and Pearl Necklet, 15ct.
Gold, £l2/10/-
All Diamonds, £l7/10/-
'vl&T'
A. Saunders’
pure Diamond
and Pearl Scarf
Pin, 15ct. Gold,
£2/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure
double-c nt Dia-
mond Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £35.
Smaller Diamonds,
£2O.
A. Saunders’ pure
double-c u t Dia-
mond Cluster Ear-
rings, 18ct. Gold,
£25.
A. Saunders’ pure
double-c u t Dia-
mond Ring, 18et.
Gold, £75.
A. Saunders’ pure double-cut Diamond knife-edge
Bar Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £lO, £l5, £2O.
Saunders’* pure double-cut Diamond Single-stone
Bracelet, 15ct. Gold, £37/ID/-
A. Saunders’ pure double-cut Diamond Bar
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £4/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure
drmble-e u t Dia-
mond Crossover
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£l2/10/-, £l5,
£2O.
A. Saunders’
Gent.’a pure double-
cut Diamond
Single-stone Ring,
18ct. Gold, £35.
Smaller Diamond,
£lO, £l5, £2O.
rir*
© w (<
. SAUNDERS,
Opp. RAILWAY STATION
SYDNEY.
A. Saunders’ Diamonds
and Pearls or Rubies,
Aquamarine or Tour-
maline Pendant, 15ct.
Gold, £2O.
All Diamonds, £3O.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard*
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PgpgH, W.A.
QUEEN’S VIC.
68J PITT STREET; SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
For our sick and wounded
BOYS. —When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Red Cross Book
Dep6t, Wynyard Street, Sydney.
SAFEGUARD You* heaitH
QtJ.Collis Brotfnt's
CWorodywe
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOR
Coughs, Co/ds, Asthma,
ami in the Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Dlarrhcoa & Simple Dysentery
0/ all Chemists. Prices in England, lIS, SJ-, 5/
Made in England.
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
No matter what your respiratory organs may
be suffering from—whether Asthma, Hay
Fever, Rose Cold, or ordinary Cough— you
will find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Sold in Tins By all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia .
SCHUTE. BELL & CO. LTD.
Sell WOOL and SKINS.
Personal attention a feature of the business.
Offices: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
BOOKS! BOOKS! BOOKS! FOR EVERYBODY!
The Book of Nature
A FULL AND EXPLICIT EXPLANATION
OF ALL THAT CAN OR OUGHT TO BE
KNOWN BY
MAN and WOMAN,
INTENDED ESPECIALLY FOR
THE MARRIED, OR THOSE IN-
TENDING TO MARRY.
By L. M. BYHN, M.D.
A PRACTICAL COMPLETE
FAMILY DOCTOR.
No such Complete Panorama of the Mysteries
of Human Reproduction has ever before been
civen to the world.
DR BYRN’S ILLUSTRATED EDITION
(1917 ISSUE) IS THE ONLY GENUINE
BOOK- ASK FOR IT, AND TAKE NO
OTHER. PRICE:
TWO SHILLINGS & SIXPENCE.
POST FREE.
Live and Learn, 2/-. How to Get Rich,
1/6 posted. Du. Lamartine's Silent Friend,
1/6 Ned Donnelly’s Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, 1/6. How to
Dance 1/6 posted. How to Wrestle, 1/6.
Moll Flanders (a rare book by Defoe), 1/3
Dosted Thurston’s Card Tricks, 1/3. All
7oia’s" including Nana. 2/- each posted.
Educating the Horse, 1/3. Ventriloquism
Made Easy, 1/3. Up-to-date Comic Reciter,
1/6 posted. How to Strengthen the
MfmopT 1/3. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 5/3 posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, 1/3, and all the Rational Press Reprints'
(send for list). Joys of Life, 2/-. How
to Make Your Will, 1/3. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 2/3. Career of Beauty
Darling, 2/6. Quadrille Call Book,
2/-. Parlor Tricks and Games, 1/6. For-
tune-Telling by Cards, 1/6. Miller's Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/7. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales,
1/6. Tricks & Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/6.
Beauty's Secrets, 1/6 post free. Night of Temp-
tation, 1/9. How to Make Love, 1/6 post free.
Fowler’s Science of Life, 12/6. Australian
Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 4/-.
Mahomet’s Fortune-Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price 1/-, posted 1/3.
How to Become Quick at Figures, 1/3. Will
Power (Personal Magnetism), posted 1/-. San-
dow-’s Book of ' Strength posted, 4/-. Car-
lisle’s Freemasonry, 6/3 posted. Daughters
of Ismael, 2/6. History of the Rod Flagella-
tions and the Flagellant: (scarce), 12/-.
Practical Gas and Oil Engine Handbook, 5/6.
Motor Mechanics, 3/3. Motor Manual,
(latest), 3/6. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d.
and 1/6. God and My Neighbor, 9d. How
to Read Faces, 1/9. How to Train for
All Sports, 2/-. Colonial Horse Doctor, 2/-.
French Polishing and Staining, 2/3. Photog-
raphy Self-taught, 1/6. How to Make
Sweets, Jams and Syrups, l/'2. New Tricks
with Coins, 1/3 posted. House Painting and
Papering, 2/3. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
12/6. Australian Pastrycooks’ Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/6 posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/6. How to Read Faces
and Heads, 1/9. Soldering, Brazing, etc.,
2/3 posted. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/9. That Rascal Gustave, 1/- ; 1/3 posted.
Camille, 1/6 posted. Piano Tuning and Repair-
ing, 2/3. Modern Etiquette, 1/3. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), 1/6. How
to Mesmerise, 1/9. Man from Snowy River,
4/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/3 posted. Parlor
Magic, 1/3 posted. The White Slave Traffic,
1/3. Every Man His Own Carpenter, 1/6.
Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator,
1/1. Secret History of the Court of Eng-
land, 2/-. Letter-Writer Up-to-date, 1/6
posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, 1/6 posted. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-; 1/2
posted. Electricity Made Simple (new), 6/'-.
The Confectioner’s Handbook, 1/6. Sexual
Knowledge for Everybody (with plates), 6/6
posted. How to Shine in Society, 1/6.
Cabinetmakers’ Handybook, 2/-. Complete
Bookkeeping, 2/6. Life of Deeming, illus-
trated, 1/1. How McDougall Topped the
Score, and Other Verses, 1/3. French
Self Taught, 1/3. Wannan’s Engine-
driver’s Guide, 6/- posted. Decameron of Boc-
caccio. Heptameron, and many others, all at
4/6 each, posted. Lee’s Priceless Recipes, 2/-
posted. Women’s Secrets. 1/- posted. Gay Life
in Melbourne, 1/- posted.
All These Prices Post Paid.
Established 30 Years.
DON’T BE FOOLED
INTO PA YING MORE.
New Tricks with Cards, 1/6. Sappho, genu-
ine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 posted. Dr.
Milford’s Midwife’s Handbook, 92 practical
illustrations, 3/'-. Aristotle, 6/-. Adam Lind-
Write for my
BIG ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
SENT ANYWHERE
FOR THE ASKING.
sat. Gordon's Poems, 1/9. Practical Palm-
istry, 2/-. Guide to Auctioneering, 3/6.
Lovers' Letter-writer, 1/6. All About Incu-
bators, 2/3. Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed,
Key to All Degrees, New Edition, 1/9 posted.
Vest-pocket Dictionary, 1/6 posted. Tokology,
10/6 posted. Ingersoll's Works, 1/3, 2/-. How
to Read Heads (Jas. Coates;, 1/9 posted.
Chevasse's Advice to a Wife, 3/9 posted. Bread
and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-boilers' Assist-
ant, 1/9. The Wife's Handbook, 1/3 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy', 1/- posted. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness
and its Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster's Large
Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus.,
leather bound, my price, 20s. post paid. (Why
pav 3 and 4 guineas?). Bootmaking and Repair-
ing, 2/3. Dynamos and Electric Motors, 2/3.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete
Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 12/6 posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, lj- posted.
Henry Lawson's Humorous Verses. 1/3. The
Age of Reason, by Paine, 1/3 posted. Damaged
Goods 1/6. One Day, 1/3 posted. The
Wizard’s Manual, 1/3. Speeches from the
Dock, 2/-. Life’s Shop Window, 1/9. Three
Weeks. 2/- posted.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, the big book store, 67 g 69 Market Street, Sydney <only>.
imrBOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.~m


CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
At the War.
Cp
> V
msmfm
f - fm
MJa
y
— #> •4 , ‘ ’ *m\
fa?'*.?.
t',
"■t-r^,
v:i
/•' £
tm-
-3!
v -—/ fP:. :
up>rW*s>7*w
wSE
. ik, v .j -'~ 't, :* T ,‘
J&si
r
(IV s ?
\
Ces f
m
\
h
' 1/
\4€m
-A>
:<fess
■**s
1
c
If.***
..-i'-p?#
<#2
-
\ .
CV- ,f"
s$
SJg?sf/
sassggi
«**■
«!%
y r
V&&
■
r<
<4*g
;>S
*«®
i*s<o
O£c L *
l(
Cobra,” Boot PolisK.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Makes old cunning
Fritz look blue.
His bright eye
Sees ships and guns
Hidden bv the
j *
Hopeful H uns.
“Give that ship up
Now," says he.
“Make all fast to
Go to sea.”
So he cleans up
All the day
In his brilliant
“COBRA" way.


a
\\\
4-S>
A Specially Good Riding; Boot
THE STOCKMAN, 17/6
POST
FREE.
This is not only the best Riding' Boot on the market, but the best value, too. It’s a solid Tweed Seam-
less Bmperor, light in weight, but exceedingly strong. Note the patent strip on elastic. This is a
special feature, and ensures a double life for the elastic where it wears out so quickly in the ordinary
riding boot. Has standard screwed soles.
Special Price, 17(6 Post Free.
MAIL YOUR ORDER FOR A PAIR TO=DAY!
FINNEY, ISLES & CO. Ltd.
QUEEN & ADELAIDE STREETS, BRISBANE. The Drapers of Queensland—since 1864.
POVERTY
POINT
MOET &
CHANDON
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
[?]
Wallace Brownlow is spending h's en-
forced vacation as a hospital orderly at
the Melbourne Exhibition. The singer had
the flu in Maoriland, but made a quick
recovery, and reckons he can face the enemy
as well as any man.
Yaren Ben”: Melbourne chatterbox
weeklies are feeling a draught these days.
The closing of the theatres has put the word-
spinning press-agent out of business, and the
columns and pages of gush which the pub-
licity man used to provide free are no more.
I whoop with joy. But the journals don’t.
It really looks as if they will have to pay
for stuff!
“Vic”: I note a passing reference to
Amory Sullivan, son of Barry Sullivan, as
having sent numerous sons to the war.
There is soldiering in the family. Barry,
the tragedian, was the son of an Irish ser-
geant in the British Army, and Barry, I
think, was born at his father’s post in
England. Melb. Public Library
has a history of the Edinburgh
Theatre Royal, full of detail.
Barry Sullivan is recorded as
only a walking gentleman there,
in which humble capacity he
preceded Irving, who actually
had to play a female witch,
Venoma, in the Christmas panto.
“Pay Up”: Chautauqua is a
U.S.A. town or district giving-
birth to an amusement crowd
who provide a third- or fourth-
class show comprising songs and
music and twaddlesome lectures,
apparently learned by rote. The
troupe’s real star performer was
the one who went ahead, long
before the other performers
showed up, and persuaded
prominent townspeople here
and there to sign a mild-
looking contract that had a
sting in its tail. Chautauqua
hasn’t been a dazzling suc-
cess in Australia, and the
contract (signed months ago)
has become a scorpion and an
adder. If its clauses were read,
their intention was not under-
stood. Orange (N.S.W.) signa-
tories found too late they were
legal guarantors for unexpected
imounts. Season tickets, impos-
sible to sell, were the only means
to cover. Door proceeds re-
mained Chautauqua property.
At the day of reckoning the
• rangemen were stung for £3
apiece. Other N.S.W. towns
have been slapping their empty
pockets and cursing the thing with the Ited
Indian name.
The. manners and customs of those in the
theatrical game are a continual wonder. A
daughter of the long-deceased Lottie Collins
(she of the high kick and the banal “Ta-ra-
ra-boom-de-ay”) was principal “boy” last
Christmas at a Glasgow theatre. She
appeared as “Miss Lottie Collins, jun.”
Billie Carleton, the victim of the drug
habit whose untimely death continues to be
a “sensation” amongst London’s second-best
people, was a meteor. Originally in the
chorus at the Empire, she got an under-
study’s chance of playing the lady star’s
part night, and next day was the talk
of the West End. That was only two and
a half years ago. Since then her name has
appeared in the casts of “The Boy,” “Fair
and Warmer,” and recently in “The Free-
dom of the Seas” at the Ilaymarket. She
was only 22 at the finish. A short, hectic
existence if ever there was one.
“Mulruana”: The kid’s mother informed
the coroner that he was an ordinary, intelli-
gent Australian, aged 11. With some
mates he had recently attended a perform-
ance of “The Man They Could Not Ilang.”
lhe boys afterwards built a scaffold, and,
according to one youngster, “had great
fun.” But the end of the game was a boy
hanging by the neck. He had been dead
about two hours when the local sawbones
cut him down. Bring in the imported
film rubbish! We’ve got plenty boys to
spare.
BEYOND THE DREAMS OF AVARICE.
THIRSTY COMEDIAN: “Say, gov’ner, what
about five bob on account?”
MANAGER : “Five bob! Five bob! Why,
sir-r-r, if I had five boh I’d be running
a number two company.”
“Tarwin”: A few weeks ago the Garfield
(Vic.) Nigger Minstrels visited a neighbor-
ing town and in their concluding farce,
Tambo, as cook’s assistant, delighted the
audience and astonished himself by standing
on his head in a dish of what should have
been eggshells, but, through a wicked trick
of one of the co., were ripe old Wyandottes.
“Norbell”: The Balmain lodge-doctor
who went to gaol for conscience sake, and
THE HEARTLESS SEX.
MAISIE : “ That old Johnny in the front row
has been yawning ever since we came
on.”
DAISIE : “Well, let’s punish him — we’ll give
an encore.”
out of sympathy with the poor working-
man, is somehow reminiscent of the Cock-
ney team of vaudeville performers who, at
the conclusion of their turn, pranced down
to the foots and warbled plaintively :
Our little sketch is ended,
Deny it no one can;
Angcore us, applaud us,
You m’y do and you can;
You’ll come again ter-morrer,
Each woman, child ar.d man,
And so Gord bless our little sketch,
Likewise the workin’-man !
The final exit of the much-married Nat
Goodwin recalls Mrs. Bancroft’s yarn. She
was entering the stage-door one evening
when an actor remarked to Kirby, the door-
keeper : “A very wet night, but it will bring
up the crops.” Kirby: “I hope it won’t
bring up any of my three wives !”
Bernard I’shaw’s Mrs. Warren has been
explaining her profession in Hungarian to
vast audiences in Budapest of late. Life
in the village is described as a whirl of
gai fiv already, and there are tango teas
and all-night dances and plenty of tucker.
“C. Ockney”: Ambrose Manning,, a mel-
low comedian, remembered in Australia for
excellent performances with Wilson Barrett
and later in “The Whip,” is scoring in Lon-
don ps an old salt in a new “Jolly Jack
Tar.” . He has incorporated in his part
an ancient catch-phrase, “I believe you,
my boy,” first used in the 50-year-old melo-
drama, “The Green Bushes,” by Paul Bed-
ford.. The wheeze was not even original
with Bedford, for in his “Recollections,”
published in the ’sixties, he tells how he got
it from T. P. Cooke, who got it from a
messmate at the naval engagement at Cape
St. Vincent. And the chances are that that
other jovial sailorman, Noah, had used the
gag ages before that.
“First Old Man”: “You never know till
the rag goes. up.” Even the people most
experienced in theatrical affairs 'are liable
to make bloomers in appraising any item
in a show at rehearsal. Gilbert and Sulli-
van, whom you would think capable of sum-
ming up popular taste to a nicety, nearly
made a horrible mistake at the dress-
rehearsal of “The Mikado,” at the Savoy.
Hick Temnle had snng his opening song.
“My object all sublime,” when there ensued
a hurried consultation in the stalls between
the librettist, composer and management.
“Temple, that number will be cut to-morrow
night.” called out Gilbert. Temple, dum-
founded, almost wept. A perceptible hush
all over the theatre was broken by four of
the principal chorus-girls stepping out of
the ranks and begging Gilbert across the
footlights to allow the song to remain in.
Another consultation followed, and the
librettist agreed to ‘‘chance it.” The num-
ber was one of the hits of the first night.
“Bill B.” : A co. which visited a township
in N.Q. a while back found on arrival that
the scenery had not turned up. The co. was
to stage “The Kelly Gang,” so the male
mummers borrowed axes and wandered into
the bush, where they chopped down a couple
of loads of scrub. The stage looked line, and
the only hitch was when the tame kangaroo
(lent by a local publican) knocked over a
tree which, in falling, seriously wounded the
piano.
“Thanks be to Heaven, fat actors die,” said
the drummer, lie was a bagman of Fai-
staffian disproportions himself. “You'll re-
member there was one here a few years ago.
He did Irish comics. That man was the
bane of my life. He was a great, hog-fat
blackguard for whom I was continually be-
ing mistaken. People accosted me in hotels,
demanding half-crowns, half-quids, quids,
hats, coats, trousers, suitcases, bottles of
beer, and a hundred and one other commodi-
ties that this lard-vat had borrowed from
them, and often they invited me to trial i ,
combat. Y'ou can’t fight at my size of life,
and it became necessary for me to carry
round my birth-certificate. Once 1 had the
misfortune to strike a line of country towns
where Hamfat had played a circuit, leaving
a trail of debts and blasphemy behind him.
At every hotel I tried 1 was discarded on
sight. Those publicans who finally believed
I was not the defaulter said I was too like
him to be trustworthy. I had to pay in
advance even for a shave. Then we met
accidentally, promiscuously, in a bar. He
looked me over. ‘See here, Falling,’ he said.
‘l’m sick of the sight of you. I’ve never
met you before, but your aspect wearies me.
For the love of Lucifer name a place where
I can go to escape you. Every second per-
son in this d —d tour is expecting me to pa,\
your debts !’ I think I swooned. But tha
was not the limit. The dizzy extreme
was reached five weeks after his death,
when a dun for an undertaker got off a
tram and chased me. What for, think you?
To collect Hamfat’s funeral expenses ! The
Devil knows what the man’s mental pro-
cesses were, but I had to point out that, if
lie had buried Hamfat I couldn’t very well
be the dead man and liable for my own
funeral expenses ‘Maybe yer right in one
way,’ said. he, ‘but y’ll not be gettin’ off so
easy. It’s my opinion (’n’ 50 witnesses
I'll, get to prove it) you’re the felly we
buried, ’n’ y’ve been leadin’ a double life!’
GUSTAV SLAPOFFSEI. musical con-
ductor .of Rigo’s Grand Opera.
I pushed him down and trod on him and
was fined 80 shillings for unprovoked
assault. Unprovoked, mark you !”
HUMORESQUE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I am Pierrot.
1 dance, I sing, I make you smile,
Ho you forget your troubles for a while
And shout “Bravo!’’
But stay! We have not finished with the show.
1 have a tale to tell,
Just such a tale to make you laugh again.
I know you well
All you who giggle at another’s pain!
A year ago I lost my dear Pierrette.
I loved her —I, Pierrot, whose heart they say is
stone!
I tried to make her life a song; and yet
Life is so cruel —ah, I am alone!
A year ago I lost a friend,
Our merry, jesting, dancing Harlequin.
I loved him, too. Until the very end
I did not know his heart was black as sin.
To-day he came again ; I met him face to face,
1 clasped his hands and laughed for very joy.
held me lightly in a fond embrace
And said: “Friends, always friends, Pierrot, my
boy !”
We drank together and I lost uiy smile,
For with him came the memory of my dear.
He saw me sad and, in a little while,
Asked me the reason why I looked so queer.
“Cheer up!’’ he said. “Life is too good to fret
While you have wine and women and your art!’’
“A year ago,” I said, “I lost Pierrette,
And with her went my heart.”
“Pierrette!” he cried. “A doll, a pretty thing!
Too full of sentiment to speak,
Dainty to look at, sweet to dance or sing;
But—tcliah! —she couldn’t hold me for a week !
I dazzled her—l, with my nimble wit.
She said she loved me and —we went away.
Happy we were, a night, perhaps a day.
But clingung love—how sick 1 get of it!
I left her then and went my singing way.
Why should I tarry for a woman’s tear?
Pierrette looked ugly, foolish when she cried.
I danced my way through life another year;
She —silly thing! —lost heart and died!”
I listened, dumb. Messieurs, I am not brave;
The woman in me comes too often to mine eyes.
I saw my love deep in a pauper’s grave!
Ah! is’t not comic when poor Pierrot cries—*
Should he not dance and sing though Pierrette dies ?
Then thrqugh my tears I saw a face,
I saw a knife, I saw a flash of red!
I struck and struck, mad for a moment’s space.
’Twas over. Harlequin was dead.
And then I knew it was in vain.
Both dead—both dead—and nothing left but pain!
If I had killed him twenty times
No Death could give me my Pierrette again.
Poor foolish fashioner of silly rhymes
With bloody hands—and little gain!
Then 1 remembered you, Messieurs,
I am your servant to command.
So have I come to make my last adieux—
The show is everything, you understand?
Am I not comic when I sing?
Was there a night- when 1 have danced so well?
And, all the time I smile, a Thing
Waits for me deep in hell.
Nay, laugh at me! Ido not need one tear.
I am your Jester still, never your friend.
There is no shadow left to fear—
I shall be with her in the end.
lam your Jester till you bid me stop J
Or Fate decrees it is my turn to die.
I go to make my bew upon the hangman’s drop.
Tis finished. I bid you all good-night—go 'd-bye!
BULGARIA.
DION TITIIERADCE.
THE LOST MAGIC.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A conjure:' beyond compare
Was old De Weirdo. Folks would stare
To see him reap
A rich coin-harvest from the air.
He’d raise a heap!
I met De Weirdo yesterday—-
He tried to touch me for a tra}'!
His “Magic Kettle” act was grand;
For any drink, at his command,
Came gushing* out,
In quantities to -save the land
Were -there a drought.
To-day his art ’is lost, I fear.
He has to_ cadge for pints of beer 1
No handcuffs ever made could hold
De Weirdo in the days of old.
From any trunk
Of wood or steel, this wizard bold
Would do a bunk!
I visited, to-day, the gaol
And got De Weirdo out on bail!
QUEENSLAND.
LIONEL C. H. SHAVE.


WEAR A MASK
and taKe
DR. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS.
The Public is warned to take no
chances with the influenza epidemic
which has made its appearance in Australia, and to take
external and internal precautions. The first essentials of
these are cleanliness outside and in. Wearing a mask
reduces the chances of infection. Take Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills freely —nothing better could be had at any price
in an emergency of this kind. If an attack of the real
Influenza develops, send for the doctor and go straight to
bed. Don’t try to fight it. If you have an attack of the
real Influenza your digestion will be a wreck, your head,
legs and back will ache, your heart action may be affected,
and you will have a temperature. These conditions need
the attention of a skilled medical attendant.
It stands every member of the community in hand to so look after their
general health to prevent if possible becoming infected with this deadly
germ, and to accomplish this no better remedy could be taken than Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills. They are a searching, cleansing remedy.
They are mild in their action, but highly effective in cleansing the system
of all impurities and preventing germs getting a chance to incubate.
Petroleum Oils, Salts, Tonics and other so-called remedies are of little
use to cleanse the system and keep these germs in check; in fact, they will
have a tendency to aggravate an already deranged gastric condition. It
would also be advisable to take from 5 to 10 grains of ASPIRIN two or
three times daily if feeling out of sorts, or 10 grains of ■ QUININE, on-
retiring at night the same time as the pills are taken. A common cold can
usually be broken up if either ASPIRIN or QUININE are taken with
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pillls on the first indication of a cold.
Following these simple precautions may prevent an attack of serious
illness. If you get the real Influenza do as already stated—send for the
doctor and go to bed. Don’t try and doctor yourself. The complaint is
too dangerous to take chances with. The doctor may or may not allow
you to continue taking Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills. In any case, follow
his directions both with medicine and food, and you will be on the safe side.


Skingetters
Rabbit, Fox and all
other classes of skins. Consign to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Sydney OR Brisbane. LTD.
Top Prices—Correct Counts —Full
Weights—Prompt Returns. Salesmen
only. Not buyers or dealers.
Columbia
Hot Shot Batferier
are universally used for ignition purposes.
Being moisture-proof, they are especially adapt-
able for motor boat use.
Columbia Hot Shot Batteries eliminate the
necessity of connecting up individual cells. No
trouble from loose connections —only two con-
nections to make in placing the battery in service.
The individual cells are already connected in
series and multiples-series to give the desired
voltage and current. Columbia Hot Shot
Batteries are made in various sizes to give volt-
ages of from 3 to 9 volts.
Satisfaction is guaranteed when you purchase
Columblas. They are backed by more than
a quarter of a century’s knowledge of battery
manufacture.
The Fahnestock Spring Clip Binding Post,
shown in the illustration, is a Columbia fea-
ture that sells bat-
teries. With this
Binding Post it is
simply a matter of
pressing down the
spring and inserting
the wire—and the
connection is made.
Dealers-Immediate
deliveries can be
made.
Write
for cat-
alogue
and de-
tails.
NATIONAL CARBON COMPANY, Incs
Export Department
Cleveland, Ohio, U. S. A.
Cable Address;
" Carbon Cleveland”
A
A.
MOTOR OHS
——For the Motor Car
For* the Motor Cycle
——For the Motor TrucK
For the Motor Boat
For the Aerial Engine
lubrication with National Motor Oils is the
greatest safeguard against loss of power and
wear and tear. Their protective quality
never varies.
Obtainable all Storekeepers and Carages
in 1-gallon tins, 4-gallon tins and barrels.
Ask also for National Motor Greases.
NATIONAL, OIL CO., LTD.,
4 Bridge Street. Sydney.
JAMES WARDLE & CO.,
Adelaide.
Wireless Telegrams
CAN NOW BE SENT
at Reasonable Cost
to and from all Ships
within range of AUSTRALIAN and
NEW ZEALAND Wireless Stations.
Hand your messages in at the nearest Post Office —just like an
ordinary telegram; they will be wirelessed from the nearest
Wireless Station, viz.:
Sydney
Melbourn
Adelaide
Perth
Darwin
Awanui (N.Z.)
Wellington
etc.
From any town in Australia to any Australian ship, 6d. per word.
Full information can be obtained
at nearest Post Office, and by letter, telephone or telegram from:
THE TRAFFIC SUPERINTENDENT,
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (AUSTRALASIA) LIMITED
Wireless House, 97 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Telephones: City 4254, 4255. Telegrams: Expanse, Sydney.
ZINC
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
,A-Z
BRAND
Containing about 99.9?)% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
15 HAS
BRAND
HIGH-GRADE ZINC DUST
Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc.
Containing about 95.75% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION -for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS;
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited,
“Collins House,” 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
fill*
lb
m
UjK
anno
Cleans
ILegula
elf
British
rtf
cure
HOTEL ESPLANADE,
PERTH’S PREMIER HOTEL.
Facing the Swan River and Indian Ocean. An ideal situation.
Close to Post Office, Banks, etc. ALL MODERN CONVENIENCES.
M. A. BEAVOR, Proprietress.
the: palace hotel,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OF PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
JOHN T. GLOWREY, Proprietor.
The O.C.S. Automatic Weighing Machine
FOR FREE RUNNING MATERIALS. NO POWER REQUIRED.
Manufacturers and Im-
porters of—
Roller Flour Mill
Machinery
Oatmeal Mill Machinery
Brewers’ and Malsters’
Machinery
Superphosphate
Machinery
Elevators of various
designs
Apron Conveyors,
Gravity Conveyors
Adjustable Feeders
and Jlixers
Flour and Bran Packers
Grinding Mills for all
Classes of Materials
Bottle-filling Machines
for Piccalilli, etc.
mmsi
issi
m
wm
t
Farmer s’ Grain
Cleaners
Link Belting
Sprocket Wheels
Elevator Buckets
Complete Grinding: and
Dressing Plants for
Sugar, Spices, Starch,
Paint, etc.
Package Elevators
Bag Holders
Disc Grinding Mills
Malt Roller Mills
'PJ ox/s
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
SUPPORT OUR OWN INDUSTRIES.
Schumacher Mill Furnishing Works Pty. Ltd.,
PORT MELBOURNE, VICTORIA. [1
DEAD SEA FRUIT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The moon was showing his mournful face
Through the ti-tree’s tossing arms
When I went with Ruth from the secret place
Which had lost its cloying charms.
The sad moon peered through the ti-tree’s lace —
I parted from Ruth with a slack embrace.
The gnome of a breeze crept from the sea
To whisper of vain regret,
And gone from my soul was the gust of glee,
And the taste from my cigarette;
For while I held her upon my knee
I’d proposed.... and she had accepte.d rue!
' VICTORIA.
CUTHBERT COLLINS.
Gone west, Reginald Olney, a Colac
(Vic.) native with a maximum of the right
spirit. Olney spent three years overseas
with the Field Artillery; yet he had been
rejected 14 times before he finally got
himself passed for active service.
“McNorth”: Maino, who now lives on
Yam Island, Torres Strait, was orderly to
Sir William Macgregor when “Wee Mac”
was Governor of Papua. His Ex.’s former
shadow —a stout, round-faced coon these
days, with a breezy manner and twinkling
eyes—tells how he accompanied his boss on
several expeditions into the mountainous
interior. At that time there was not much
money to splash round on “development,”
and the canny chief saw to it that there were
no frills. The string of native carriers was
strictly limited, and sometimes white officials
had to carry their own swags. Rations were
just sufficient, and marches were lengthened
so as to consume as little time and food as
possible. The hardy old Governor had a
great affection for yams, and the meals for
days on end would consist of little else.
The army of well-fed Government officials
roaming round in Papua to-day can think
itself lucky it didn’t exist in Macgregor’s
time.
“Bonehead’s” kick :
Receiving,a call to another charge, our meenister
left us. Following the usual custom, the heads
invited men from other charges to come and con-
duct service in turn. From these they were to
pick one who would be invited to accept the
“call.” After seven or eight had preached, the
choice fell upon one who found it impossible to
come for three months. During those three months
headquarters was to provide a locum, tenens. The flrsi
to come was the Rev. McDundee, a feeble old Scot
of many years. He had to travel about 280 miles
per train, and the executive provided him with a
second-class ticket. After his departure the Rev.
Mudsand arrived. Mudsand informed all hands
that he would not stay until the r'egular man
arrived, but would use his influence at headquarters
to have another clergyman sent to relieve him.
The influence was duly brought to bear, and the
services are now conducted by Rev. McKilt, as
old and just as feeble as McDundee. And this
poor old minister travelled second, too. Apparently
the Scotchbyterian authorities consider the bawbees
before the comfort of their veterans. It makes the
kirk look very cheap.
“0.P.”: Anything made in Australia is
only second-rate stuff, of course. Anyway,
the Australian Customs authorities prohibit
the use of the word “finest,” or a similar
superlative, on labels attached to Australian
spirits bottled for export. This is done
in face of the fact that Australian distillers
guarantee the liquor is of a grade which
justifies the description; further, The Cus-
toms officers supervise the distilling, and if
they do their duty the nurity of the spiTit
should be beyond question. On the other
hand, the importer can land in Australia
foreign bulk spirits, and label them the
finest, the best, the' most satisfying life-
giving drink on the globe if he so desires,
and tbe Department ignores the perpury, even
though the stuff may be plain blue snakes.
“Gerardy”: Billy Sunset, ex-champion
sprinter, and Joe Wirefence, an old-time
pug, met for the first time in the Jordan
Valley. Arriving in the horselines, they
buttoned together their bivvy-sheets and
pegged down a serviceable shelter, where
they spent their spare time in perfect
harmony bragging quietly of what they had
done and endured in the field. From that
time on they advertised so well that every-
body was convinced that both were dinkum
fire-eaters. Early one morning the concerted
hum of enemy bombing-planes warned us an
egg-laying competition was imminent. Hear-
ing the far-off explosion of bomb No. 1,
Jones leapt from his blankets, seized a steel
helmet and overcoat, and sped barefooted
over the stones for the nearest wadi. When
within 50 yards of cover, another man
bounded ahead of him like a greyhound.
Forgetting his panic, Jones halted breath-
less and amazed. “Bill Sunset!” he gasped.
“Oh, the coward!”
“0.L.”: Dr. McMeekin, medical superin-
tendent of the Melbourne Hospital, recently
described as “very unsatisfactory” the exist-
ing system of transporting ’flu patients; and
the. Board of Health duly replied to the
criticism with a flow of admonitive hot-air.
The only practical suggestion made by Dr.
Robertson, chairman of the Board, was that
owners of private cars might be disposed
to volunteer their services. At about the
time when Robertson was weighing in with
his repiarks, I chanced to be passing along
a Malvern street and noticed a St. John’s
ambulance at rest, suffering from an in-
ternal complaint, while the driver was
making a heated attempt to get the old ’bus
going again. It was a blazing afternoon;
yet I heard next day that a patient was
aboard that particular ambulance and that
the stoppage had lasted two hours, with the
sufferer sinking rapidly all the time. He
died not lons after admission to hospital.
There were 50 ’phones available within 400
yards of the jibbing ambulance; yet, be-
cause notions’ had been done, as sug-
gested by McMeekin, to impress taxis into
the medical service at the State’s expense,
the patient went west without the chance of
a fair battle with the Reaper.
The. old-time doctor was not quite as
exclusive as the modern brass-plate. This is
how one of them put his case
Dr. Jackson (late assistant to Dr. Coffin, London).
229 Bourke-street East, near the Parliament Houses,
Melbourne. A large assortment of botanic medi-
cines, including herbs, composition powders, Indian
bills, etc., alwavs on hand ; also botanic books
homoeopathic medicines, books, and cocoa, at red err’
prices.


A “CLEAN SWEEP” of
500 PINCH-BACKS
0
Usual
Prices
105/-
90/-
84/-
751-
Now
all
One
Price
; I
*
dr
■
si
m
■ v;
/ h\
m ' A c.iA
; ~<
y
mm
k
\L-d
[»_. .
.';'
m
1
I
H m
mXmm
u
1
5
m
mss
\
/
I
mm
mm
■
f m
Wms
msmm
m
w
11
J..
mjirft f
\ Jrv: j
■
1
I
*
. :
wmm
rnmm^m
msssu
mam
Hra
■ mm
H
BEFORE taking stock in a few days we are going to reduce present holdings by clearing
500 Men’s Tailored Pinch-back Suits at below cost price.
It cannot be emphasised too strongly that these are far and away superior to the ordinary run
of clothing offered at a clearance.
Every vSuit Has been Cut and
Tailored in our own workrooms
There is good wear, splendid workmanship and smart style in every suit. Any man would
be getting a fine money’s worth if he paid full and regular price. Think of them now.
The feature of a Pinch-back is the half-belt
pleated on. Glance at the picture and see
how smartly it hugs the back. The coat
lias three patch pockets in front that button,
smooth-fitting collar and shoulders, flowing
lapels and shapely fronts. Trousers are
tailored with side straps, side, hip and fob
pockets and cuff bottoms. High-class lin-
ings and trimmings are used throughout.
The style is ideal for city and
country wear, holiday trips
and young men’s College
Clothes.
It matters not if yon are short, stout, slim,
slender or tall. You can be fitted just as if
your size was made to order.
Quite an innovation with this offer is that we
will send patterns of these Ready-Tailored
Suits, so that you may see and handle the
materials in your own home before ordering;
If you don’t like the suit when delivered
simply return it and we will refund your
money. Could anything be fairer than that ?
Post the Coupon for Patterns and Order
Forms Now. This offer lasts for a few days
-only.
ALL WOOL Grey
Suitings &l Hopsacs
Doneg'als, Fancy
Mixtures Pencil-
stripes in Tweed.
Greys, Browns
and Scotch.- Greys
in ALL WOOL.
Any man can be fitted Perfectly.
j&ufon
Opp. G.P.0.,
MELBOURNE,
OUR ONLY ADDRESS
IN AUSTRALIA.
&
&
*
o
&
&
6
6-
<7


hosiery
C PECIALIZED
. methods in design-
inland knitting pro-
duce in Luxite Hosiery
a closely woven tex-
ture of remarkable
durability and re-
splendent beauty un-
surpassed for the
money by any other
hosiery in the world.
Don’t accept substitutes and think
you have “Luxite.” Insist upon
the genuine. If your dealer is
unable to supply you, write us.
Walter Cathro Pty.Ltd.
York Street, SYDNEY.
•HUNTS
MOSQUITOES
A Marvellous
discovery.
Gives absolute
PROTECTION
FROM THE PEST.
Nothing else
LIKE IT.
get
some.
i !/• Per bottle, all Chemists
3/4J and Stores or
2 ho any part
l of Australia .
/rom H C.Price Chatswood N.S.W.
m.R
aaaaagac
EEE
a
it
4K
TP
DAINTY
DURABLE
MORROCKSES’
ffid&M.Cam/r tSaa,
j and Jlfada/fadamA
"HORROCKSES"'
on. suvepce
DRAWS FROM THE BLOOD
THE POISONS
which cause Bad Leg’s, Sore Feet, Car-
buncles, Boils,Varicose Ulcers, Bunions
Eczema, Piles, etc., and those arising from
Insect and Mosquito Bites,
1 he Proprietors of Grasshopper Ointment
nave an absolute confidence in its unsur-
eC * mer ** s - They know it to bs a safe
and perfect cure for all skin and blood ail-
ments; and the va‘t number of testimonials
received prove it to be. Grassh pper Oint-
ment positivelydraws the po * ons which pro-
duce these maladies out of the system As
an aperient, liver medicine and blood purifier,
tne Grasshopper Pills are equally effective,
and should be taken in co junction with the
Ointment. Sold by all Drug Stores and
Chemists throughout the Commonweilth.
MU
Here’s a fine hotel -one that
will satisfy your every need.
It is in the heart of the city—handy
to all business areas, trams, trains,
theatres and public buildings.
Booms are modern,, airy and comfortable,
the cuisine “home-like” and ample, the
service quick and courteous. Make the
Queen’s Arms YOUR MELBOURNE
HOME.
QUEEN S ARMS
HOTEL
C! SWANSTON ST & FLINDERS LANE i
i CLAUDE.R.KERR P™ J
m
The
New Sauce
Connoisseurs prefer
it —in fact, they*
always use it.
Do you ?
11. P. is rich—thick—and
iruity, so different from
others.
Influenza.
“PLENTY OF MILK” is the doctors*
advice in all cases of influenza.
FRESH MILK modified by
Mellins Food
forms the best diet throughout the
course of the attack and in convales-
cence,. because it is more palatable,
more easily digested and therefore
more nourishing than milk alone.
OF ALL CHEMISTS AND
STORES.
Price 2/6 per large bottle.
Sample and booklet free on request.
Mellins Food Ltd.,
Colling wood.
AGENTS:—
GOLLIN & CO. PROPY. LTD., Melbourne,
Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane.
BRITISH
AND BEST
YELLOW
METAL
PEN
GOLDEN
WATTLE
MADE BY
- MACNIVEN & -
CAMERON LTP
BIRMINGHAM & EDINBURGH
*
THEY COME AS A BOON & A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL & THE WAVERLEY PEN,”
WARATAH
Fencing Wire
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY
The Austral Nail
Co. Pty. Ltd ,
SOUTH MELBOURNE.
A WIRE SUPERIOR
TO ANY IMPORTED.
Support Home Industries
Professional.
GREGORY NORTH RABBIT BOARD.
Applications for Superintendent of
Works.
APPLICATIONS are invited until Tues-
day, 18th March, 1919, for the posi-
tion of Superintendent of Works.
Applicants to state age and general experi-
ence in the construction and maintenance of
rabbit-proof fencing and rabbit destruction.
Salary four hundred pounds (£400) per
annum. Camel outfit provided in dry coun-
try, applicant to find necessary horses and
plant -for the other portions of the district.
Applications, together with copies of testi-
monials, to be addressed to the Chairman.
Gregory North Rabbit Board, Boulia,
Queensland, and endorsed “Application for
Superintendent of Works.”
For any other particulars apply to the
Clerk of the Gregory North Rabbit Board,
Boulia, Queensland.
E. S. SCIIOLEFIELD,
Chairman.
Boulia, 3rd December, 191 S.
For
A Clear Complexion
Constipation disfigures the com'
plexion with pimples and blotches-
Poisonous matter which should have
been expelled from the system is
retained and gives rise to impurities
in the blood.
Pinkettes quickly clear away all
offending matter without the least
gripirg or discomfort. They are a
corrective for bad breath, will clear
the complexion, and are recom-
mended for torpid liver, biliousness,
headache?, constipation, and when-
ever a gen ie laxative is required.
1/- per bottle at all dealers.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “The Bulletin.’
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
'
ABBEY
SHOES!
Select your shoes according to
QUALITY —not Price—that’s the
way to ensure satisfaction —and
it's always the most economical in
the long run.
We feature a special Golf Shoe in
choice Tan Willow Calf.
Heavy Soles, 42/-
Light Soles, 40 -
Postage extra.
Made in half and full sizes, and in
three fittings—narrow, medium
and wide.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
THE MASQUERADER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The beauty-actor’s face was sad,
But yet he forced a bitter smile,
As when he calls the villain “Cad!”
When playing leading juvenile—
The smile suburban flappers know
From Daceyville to Ultimo.
“This is too much. The final straw!
It’s more than I can bear!” he said.
“Must Art be subject to the Law ? ’
He groaned, and shook his noble head
As when, with spotlight from the flies,
“Sir, I am in-no-cent!” he cries.
“Wherever I appear,” said he,
“Admirers come in flocks, like geese;
In nearly every home you’ll see
My photo on the mantelpiece,
From Darlinghurst to Waterloo —■
The housemaid’s hero, tried and trje!
“ ’Twas bad enough to close the show,
But this—l can no more!” ho cried.
The tell-tale tears began to flow. (
I asked what ailed him. He replied:
“Ironic Fate! You well may ask,
They’re forcing me to wear a mask!”
N '- s - w -
NORMAN CAMPBELL.
Died in a private hospital at Melbourne,
James Boag, Tasmania’s well-known brewer.
He was 64.
“G.D.M.”: “East-West” and “Trans” are
both unwieldy names. Why not name the line
the Great Western? Some day we’ll label
the Oodnadatta-Darwin line the Great
Northern.
Adelaide Evening Journal bears wit-
ness :
London, January 31.—The Aberdeen liner Milti-
ades, which left London with many British wives of
Australian soldiers, experienced fearful weather in
the Bay of Biscay. The tossing about caused pre-
mature Girths. The Demobilisation Department ha**
received no complaints, and points out that such
happenings are now impossible under the new sys-
tem of inspection. J
Wonderful what a little organisation can
do!
“H.E.P.”: An instance of how N. S.
\\ ales Bailway Commissioners help the
rp, ■ h Department to combat the ’flu,
lakmg the latter’s advice I sought the fresh
air per medium of a short train journey.
’I' 1 ,, 11 v J aa hi the ’flu’s favor, by reason
, the tact that in one compartment of a
)o x carriage, which has seating accommoda-
‘r Ti. 10 pe °P le ’ thera were no less than
M adults and three children. And of
course, with such a sweltering pack, as
soon as the train drew out most of the
masks were slipped under the chin.
: - As result of the Government
edict 01 dering the use of face-masks in Mel-
bourne churches, a quaint episode happened
fi. a city tabernacle. An unmasked male
tried to enter the building just before ser-
vice commenced, but found his way barred
by a determined she-worshipper. “Nobody
firn lv tT , admitted >” she explained!
tirmly. The maskless one insisted on enter-
ing and finally produced proof of the fact
Health WaS ° W tns 'P ector of the Board of
Ivho climbed on to
SL,^‘a S - ales Blstnct Court Ben ch the
a 037, a militai 'y captain some
fh? i As he A vas no Skuthorpe he chose
the infantry. Once, during sham-fight
manoeuvres, he was prevailed on to mount a
riderless steed when he was ordered due east
to scout for the enemy among some Maroubra
Bay sandhills. The prad, however, took
his own course, and made for home and
tucker W ith the aid of half a street-full of
youngsters, a tram, the local police and a
last- nami ri S C r ar /’ the T bolter was st °PPed at
last. The future Judge returned to his
anxious 0.C., and, ignoring all questions as
Crawford Vaughan. ex-Premipr of S \
wntes to friends in Adelaide that, after one
jears strenuous campaigning in the U.S.A.
snatching meals, and sleeping where I could!
I'i'fA *™' ~h e had to go into hospital in
London for three weeks, but is now all right
again. Schwab, of the U.S. Shipping Board,
"i°te thanking him heartily:—
Not only did your addresses, delivered in tbp
asm y but’vmfhel Vj creased activity and enthusi-
®:™’ rl b A* 30u helped the people of America to under-
stand the issue of the war, and brought the senti-
ments and ideals of the allied countries into closer
contact and understanding.
This last, Vaughan says, is going to be his
immediate work. An American “committee
ot patriotic societies,” with a three-million
membership already, has deputed him to try
to make the thing international. As for
returmng to Australia: “How do I know?
matter ” ePendS PP ° n the devel °P me nt of this
Ad t ide ’ which had not seen a big fire
j.°i. 1“ years, watched the Burford soap-
\ffm-ryHg ° m ? a I nes on a re cent Sunday.
A.ttei the original factory on East Terrace
ZZtrfr ia 85 - the ' co - movGd t 0 a
citv d wum e X Si t le south ' we st corner of the
Viiv m V thl A 24 hours of the recent fire, the
of nn«b°;? nCl ci WaS r COnsiderin S the Question
of pushing the factory outside the city
boundaries altogether. y
Mellish Reef”: What’s the matter with
Sydney tradespeople? First the carrier took
nine days to deliver my gear from the
wharf to Willoughby. Next I ordered some
water piping from a hardware, firm. Gtoing
delive^v <? H later *l° find tb3 reason for non-
employee informed me that he
was waiting for some further alleged
de ads. Ordering a half-ton of coal aM
ocwt. of wood, the dealer sent up
-.Sib. coal charging 6d. for it (£2 a ton/
I vot my fuel elsewhere. The dozing grocer
can always be relied on to forget Hn item
?’ and the exhausted milkman forgeto
nnr, a^C a’V once a weeI L always on the after-
noon delivery. The little shop at the
corner, kept by the widow, takes two or
Se ee and J V°- deliser I MOtaen
aae, and the ice-man (we have alreudv hn,i
K e ° f thGm > fails a bout once a week The
SU<3denly r st °PP ed calling last week
with me owing for half a week’s bread The
which 'tt* r,* is tbe i»4S S


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding _ sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apr' 1 ?
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
lei. —City 4 246, 2,4, (> Spring Street,
48io! Sydney.
Sydney to England
via
the Allied Route,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yoseinite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, MARCH 5,
YENTCBA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Telephone: City 2282. 44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Dunking, Public Companies, &c.
THE,
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The lion. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
At. (Chairman) ; WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY. M.L.A. ; lion. Sir ROBERT PIiILP,
K.C.M.G.; lion. A. .1. TEIYNNE, M.L.C.
Oknkiui. Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Hoad Cilice: Brisbane.
Sydney Oflic.e: 2.'>«‘{ George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Oflice: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in .NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1563.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 80, 1921.*
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0 1
Paid-up Capital . . .. .. 480,000 0 0 j
Reserve Fund . . . . . . . . 222,000 0 0 j
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5 |
All new business since ISOS specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Banning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq. ; W. 11. Ilart, Esq.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD O IT'ICE - - 15 UIS DANE.
Itrnnebes —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland. Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the Ea3t.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up .£1,198,679
Reserve. Fund . £145,000
Directors' MARK SHELDON, Esq., Chairman;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LLD. ; FRANK N.
YARWOOD, Esq.; HERBERT It. LYSAGITT,
Esq.; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq.; Hon. F.
JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon,
Chief Inspector: J. S. Marks.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 139 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital .. . . . . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,345,702
GRANTS DRAFTS
Britain and Ireland,
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
and other places.
transacts all other usual
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
Banking business.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
MACDONALD,
HAMILTON 8 CO.
Managing Agents for
Australasian'United Steam Navigation C"i d .
Central Queensland Meat Export Co. Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates Ltd.
Blackheath Collieries Limited.
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Shipping, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
THE “ALE-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN PACII'U
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIDS, GREAT LAKES.
NIAGARA FALLS. Etc.
SAILINGS TO VANCOUVER. VIA AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (FIJI) AMD
HONOLULU.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN. UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
SAILINGS ON APPLICATION.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
SAILINGS TO SAN FRANCISCO, VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA
AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through' Bookings to Any Part of the United States. Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
EXCURSION to HONOLULU;'
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
Alt Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers.
SAILINGS ON APPLICATION.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing several days’ stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beacli—“The Home of Surfing.”
GI.ORIOUS SCENERY—PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 Georgo Street, Sydney.
ISLAND TOURS.
Now is the Time to Visit the PACIFIC ISLANDS.
DELIGHTFUL TOURS to
NORFOLK ISLAND and NEW HEBRIDES.
SOLOMON ISLANDS.
PAPUA and RABAUL.
Trips of Four, Five and Seven Weeks’ Duration.
BURNS, PHILP g CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
raid-up., Capital
ISeserVevl'iyjd
Reserve Liability
Directors:
£3,904,860
£3,025,000
£3,904,860
£10,834,720
The Hon. Sir Cnarles li. MaeKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.E.C.. President.
F. B. S. Kalkmer, Esq., M.H.R.
The Hon. Reginald ,1. Black, M.L.C.
Auditors ; S. E. Laidley, Esq. ; A. G. Milson, Esq.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
General Manager ; Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office —29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
336 Branches and Agencies in tiro Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and 'Correspondents throughput the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Commonwealth
3M or 3ißtralta
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
for General Banking: Business
in the
principal
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Warminster (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
Minimum
Deposit
1/-
HI ....
Branches, and over 4 100 Agencies at
Post Offices in Australia, Papua, Solomon
Islands, New Britain, and The Pacific,
Interest at 3°/
per annum '*/o
up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
JAMES KELL, Deputy Governor 1918 DENISON MILLER, Governor
HAVE YOU A SAVINGS ACCOUNT?
This Bank offers you every facility for Banking your Savings.
Deposits received
from 1/- upwards.
132 Branches and
500 Agencies
throughout the
State.
6)
35
3
3
Or
CO
4
uu
INTEREST
C 2
ON
CP
DEPOSITS
<?A
S
N
Interest paid at 3?4
per cent, per annum
on every £ up to
£5OO.
No Agencies at Post
Offices.
The STATE Savings Institution
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Shipping.
" ilsWl
*
Osaka Shosen Kaisha
| (Osaka Mercantile Steamship Co. Ltd.).
MONTHLY CARGO SERVICE.
MANILA, JAPAN AND THh EAST.
| __
Transhipment Cargo accepted for all Eastern
Ports, Pacific Coast Ports, London,
Marseilles and Naples.
Cargo for Hongkong and Singapore tran-
shipped at Japan.
For particulars apply:
American Trading Co. of Au tralia,
Managing- Agents,
40 King Street, Sydney.
And at Melbourne. Adelaide'and Brisbane.
! Sydney Inter-State
Sub-Committee.
Intending passengers for other States
are requested to inquire at Quarantine
Department, Customs House, Sydney,
regarding necessary permits required
before sailing.
Permission to break journey at inter-
mediate Ports is suspended.
Interstate Passenger
Sailings
(Circumstances Permitting).
FOR MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE.
Huddart Parker Llm
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND.—ReguIar sail-
ings between Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand
ports and vice versa; particulars to be obtained on
application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA. —From Sydney to
Hobart and vice versa every three weeks. Between
Melbourne and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; George Street, Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, GOFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Munvillumhah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 11s.; second-class rail and steerage on
steamer, £4 ss.
For Guide nnd'all particulars apply:—■
BOOKING OFFICE, 2GI GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
George hotel,
St. Kiiaa., Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.


CIMRLES
lIEIDSIECKS
Vintage 1906
CBfflMfllt'
NEPLUS DLTRfI
jr»r
PELUSSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
.„ aS Sydney
TtetninS t< } I V t * 1 Sydney
Q”«- 85 aat «B»” M
ci "“ u
PAULINE et CIE
announce
GREAT REDUCTIONS
in their exclusive stock of Model Millinery.
3rd Floor, Denison House Chambers
George Street, SYDNEY.
AVADe FROM LEMONS ONLY
BROOKE'S
r tenon squash
'LARGEST SALE IN THE WORLO
BELLEVUE HOTEL,
Opposite
Queensland Club
and Parliament
Houses.
BRISBANE.
Overlooking; Botanical Gardens.
All Balcony Rooms. Tariff, 15s. per day.
Tour
Figure
Re-created
By the SHAVE
system of model fit-
ting it is possible
to have your figure
re-created in the
Shave Workrooms
and upon the re-
creation per fect
gowns built without any fittings.
The name “Shave" is an assurance
of vogue.
Visits to Sydney and Adelaide twice
and to Brisbane once yearly
SHAVE
Ladies' Tailors
Dressmakers
Centreway
Melbourne
May we invite you to our next Display 1
A. WOMAN'S
LETTER
DAVID
JONES
FOR
SMART
MILLINERY
Masks, like life in general, are a penny
plain and tuppence colored. The penny plain
look distressing, but can be disinfected ; the
tuppenny colored are sometimes magnificent
and often microbey. The penny plain are
worn by (1) married women, and (2)
unmarried women who are too busy earning
mercerised stockings to hunt up the husband
they somehow lost track of several years ago.
The tuppenny colored are worn by the bona-
fide flapper and the flapper-owm-hairpins when
going with the best boy to enjoy the breeze
at Bondi, Coogee or Manly. (Watson’s Bay
doesn’t count because the corners de luxe
there are quite dark.) They are an impera-
tive S.O.S. signal.
Black ninon yasmaks over rose-colored
masks are popular about William and Oxford
streets. At close range these are danger-
ously alluring, but at a sliort distance, un-
fortunately, they look like nothing so much
as a Druid’s beard dyed black. There is
also the lady who has a mask for every cos-
tume, with an effective border design picked
out in beads or embroidery silks. But the
one that reigns magnificently supreme in my
mind is that of the imperial duchess who
had diopped into the corner fruit-shop for
a tomato and a cucumber. Her nasal and
oral covering was a creation of gold stars
thickly strewn on a field of black silk voile.
In trousers there is the hornbill man and
the pig's snout man and the elephant’s
trunk man ; but most males mask themselves
with a contrivance that resembles a wire
meat-cover, and when the surrounding area
of face becomes heated you think of a hot
day in the Mountains and the wisdom of
keeping the meat covered.
She got on a city-bound tram at Mark
hoys, and had hardly settled herself in a
corner when the conductor said, “Madam,
you must not come into a tram without a
mask.” “Gracious!” she said, and dashed
a h an d to her face. “I’ve forgotten it.
YY hat can I do?” “I don’t know, madam,
but you’ll be fined if you stay here.” “And
you’ll be fined if you get out,” said a sym-
pathising neighbor. She drew out her hand-
kerchief. It was the size of three postage
stamps and wouldn’t cover a rosebud; and
the lady’s mouth wafe no rosebud. She thought
for three seconds. Then she unfastened a
shoe, wriggled off a stocking, and at Market-
street a woman alighted wearing something
brand-new in half-silk mouse-colored masks.
At a quarter to two one afternoon last
week the shadowy deeps of the Dyceum were
broken up by little groups of picture-house
employees. The groups shifted but the con-
versation never changed, and the subject
was mostly the rent. Ushers and cleaners,
ticket-sellers and doorkeepers, well-dressed
and shabby, but all with the same look of
concern in the eyes showing above the
masks. “I got two children to keep, and
some’ow I can’t save nothink from week to
week,” said the woman in shabby black. Then
a girl in pink, with the smallest possible mask
in the same shade, interjected : “It’s the rent
that s worrying me. Three weeks now since
I ve had any money, and I can’t go home
because my people live in Queensland.”
.'Veil, I live at home,” came from a short
girl in a raincoat, “but what’s the good o’
that t My father’s a horse-trainer and my
brother’s a jockey.” Two girls in well-made
costumes sauntered in. “Smoke!” whispered
one of the girls nearest me—“fancy cornin’
in yer best rags to ask for help!” “It don’t
matter a bit,” interrupted a practical-looking
young woman; “they don’t ask any questions
except how much you’ve been earning., Then
they give you an order on the grocer and the
butcher and baker. Charley traded his
to. his landlady last week, but I hear they’re
going to pay our rent for us from now on.”
The woman in black started to ask a ques-
tion, but nobody answered, because “Smiler”
came in. “Smiler” proved a young man full
of the work of the Theatrical Association,
tic was seized upon in turn by every group
of two and three, and everywhere his coming
was followed by a cheerful grin. “S’pose
you’re married?” asked the woman in black
rather timidly, and “Smiler” gave her a
reassurance as large as the heart that
prompted it. At half-past two the people
were still waiting hopefully. Somebody had
round a piano, and from sepulchral depths
came girl voices in scraps of the “Bing
Boys” and “Hello, Everybody.” After a
while the voices wavered, went flat, broke.
It was three o’clock when the Government
official notified the people as to the various
relief depots. The meeting surged towards
the. door. “How you been fillin’ in time,
Smiler?” came a man’s voice. “Haw, quite
nicely—been to my country residence at
Long Bay.” The crowd laughed, and on the
burst of good Australian laughter dispersed.
Slipped beyond the horizon at the too-
early age of 43, S. A. Kenny, of the Public
School Service, and secretary of the peda-
gogues’ union. The well-beloved “Sak” com-
menced to teach Young Australia in 1892,
and had the joy of knowing that many of
liis pupils had carried themselves with con-
spicuous gallantry in Gallipoli and France.
With a great talent for music he brought
the training of class-singing to a height that
proved that it is not necessary to import
doctors of the tonic-sol-fa. Ilis last triumph
was the choir of 1000 young Australians
who piped a welcome on the return of the
first Anzacs.
At 83 passed on the gentle soul of Mrs.
Mary Doubleday, who has labored so un-
tiringly through the long years in the inter-
est of the girls of the Darlington Blind
Institution. Herein, every week, it was her
custom to give lessons in plain and fancy
needlework, adding by her loving exertions
many a fine needlewoman to the State’s citi-
zens.
Everybody likes
George Fuller. Be-
sides being so ami-
able, he is so fair.
Somehow the public
always thinks of him
as a young man from
the country—some-
thing to do with the
land, no doubt. He
is so utterly unpe-
dantic that you for-
get he is an M.A.
with a very distin-
guished University
course at the back
of him. And getting
a good way back
now; for it’s 30
years since he was
first elected for
Iviama, where the Ghost used to walk. In
<7G Wales Ministry he represents the
old National” party, and it seems to happen
that big things have to be done when he
takes command in the absence of Holman
who is always tearing himself to tatters!
Holman is still in the Mountains, recuper-
ating ; but he will dart down to the city for
a few hours this week.
The news that young Lord Ednam—heir
to the Dudley earldom—is to marry Lady
Bosemary Leveson-Gower (pronounce it
Lewson-Gore, or you will madden the family's
stirs all sorts of Australian memories. The
w «P an ’s stepfather is a son of old
XSick Fitzgerald, the Melbourne brewer •
and one of his brothers— Ted—was often
nere before the war, and was highly popular,
too. Lord Ednam was at Eton during the
Dudleys hectic reign in Australia. He
should be rich in time to come, despite the
tact that Ins father was hard up at different
periods of his stay in Australia. He once
confided that he had never had a clear
thousand a year to blew on himself. And
yet his income was never much under £40.000
per annum. It was all swallowed up in
dowers and allowances to his relatives and
in the expenses of vast houses which he
rarely saw.
With better luck young Ednam would to-
day be an earl (or marquis) instead of a
viscount, and his father a duke. Edward
VI. was an intimate friend of the Dudleys
and it was an understood thing that''he
should visit Australia, stay at Government
Douse, and repay his host with a dukedom.
Just as the scheme was ripening to fruition
the cheery monarch died. In some dis-
appointment takes the form of drink- in
Jt developed along the lines of
indifference to his cold and stiffly self-
conscious spouse. His fervent testimonials
to tier tremendous virtue during their recent
law-suit were characteristic of the perfidious
monster man. Whenever one of them
volunteers the information that his wife is
far, far too good for him it means that he
is breathing freely once more.
Fashionable weddings are off for the pre-
seut. But March will set the bells ringing,
it the flu lies down. Dark-eyed Molly,
daughter of late good-citizen Harry Solomon
Levy, is booked to marry A. Nathan, of the
big Auckland clan. But not yet.
Major Jack Massie has just got engaged
a V i°- ne - oJ L tlla Lan S girls, of Newcastle,
x nd his sister, Nina Massie, has simultane-
ously decided to marry Dr. Dunlop. She is
a pretty little thing with clouds of wavy fair
hair. They both belong, of course, to the
famous old-time cricketer—the one who
played for Australia when the Graces were
in flower. Major Massie is himself a mighty
cricketer, and he is likewise a champion
boxer. He was at the Landing, and has
.been dodging between fronts and hospitals
ever since.
Another Sydney girl to get engaged is
Mona Rossiter, a popular and strenuous Red
Gross toiler. She is to marry Captain
\\ diet, an Lnglishman who was in Sydney
on sick leave. . He is now back with his
regiment in India, and the date of the mar-
riage is dependent on furlough.
Justice Real and Mrs. Real (Q.) have
been holidaying at Mount Wilson, on tlm
Blue Mountains. The Judge is proud to
be one of the “self-made men” of Australia.
He was a carpenter in the Ipswich Railway
workshops when he began to study law.
Mrs. I). B. Edward, with her two kiddies,
leaves this port in March for ’Frisco, thence
on to New York, where her husband
is in an eyrie 37 floors high on Broad-
way. He is secretary to Australia’s Com-
missioner at the Court of Wilson I.
Returned by the Saxon, Mrs. Reg Down-
mg, who left for Egypt in the early stages
as Sister Nance O’Neill. Since then she has
acquired Captain Reg Downing as a hus-
band, and the Royal Red Cross as a decora-
tion. She is a Kempsey girl.
The Royal Cambrian Academy (Wales)
has been making hon. members of
various Australian artists. This is Llewel-
lyn ap . Easyll’s way of showing his
appreciation of Australia’s part in the war.
Lister Lister, president of Sydney’s R.A.S..
is on the list.
. Bernice Vert, a sister of the Titian-haired
girl who married Dean Talbot, has gone to
M.L. with the Figmans to tour in “Nothing
but, ’ etc. Miss Vert had one of her first
struggles with greasepaint in “Daddy Long
Legs.”
The Rajah (we have only one) and his
lady took the precious infant to Leura to
dodge steamy February days.
Eileen Tooliey (as was) and her husband,
Captain Lyons, of Queensland, have taken a
house at Moss Vale. When the society of
the village Hampdens and so on becomes
over the odds they dash down to 52 Macleay-
street.
Here is a photograph of the portrait by
Longstaff of Marjorie, elder daughter of the
late J. C. Williamson, and wife of Captain
Lindsay Browne.. The death of the gifted
and lovable original a few days after her
-.4th birthday was mentioned in this
column last week. Marjorie was six
years young when she sat to Long-
stait, and the painting has been on loan
tor many years to the Sydney National
Gallery. When the new Her Majesty's
lheatre was opened (the old had been burnt
down) the charming little girl appeared for
the first and last time as an actress. She
was Mimi in “liip Van Winkle.” Her father
played the name part. Mrs. Lindsay Browne
was buried at Wentworth Falls cemetery.
Her mother and little sister Tootles had been
fortunately able to reach Leura in time for
the final adieux. The chubby little daugh-
ter who survives the young mother has been
named Pamela. Curiously enough Melba
chose that name some months later for her
grandchild.
One of Judge Cohen’s first judicial efforts
was to remit a fine on Alan Vivers of £3 for
neglecting .to destroy enough rabbits at
Ring s Plains. King’s Plains belongs not
to Alan, but to George Yivers, husband of
the lady who used to be Irene Marks.
Before the war he was rather by way of
being overshadowed by his imposing-looking
spouse. But it is so no longer. He has
been for some years a Life Guardsman—
not a mere foot-slogging Grenadier or Cold-
stream, but a cavalryman ; one of the glori-
ous beings of whom “Ouida” wrote. To be in
the "Blues” in London is to have the middle
seat in a stage-box at Life’s grand opera.
One of his intimates is young Bertie
Watson —now Staff-Captain and a D.S.O.—
while brother Fred married “Poppy” Marks.
A frequent companion of both of them was
Mrs. Alf Marks’s only girl, Marjorie. She
is tall and slim and fair and altogether
beautiful.
Mrs. Guy Davenport is on her way home.
Poor Guy Davenport went away as a sub-
altern with the original Fifth (Artillery)
Brigade. Guy Davenport, after winning an
M.C. in France, was in England doing a
special “school” when his wife arrived from
Sydney. He was transferred to the
R.B.A.A. at Lark Hill, and she came down
to a village nearby in order to see as'much
of him as possible. The next day lie was
lint on draft to go overseas—-which is a way
they have in some camps in the army. He
had hardly arrived in France when a “five-
nine” landed in his dugout, and one of the
bravest and cheeriest of young soldiers
passed out.
_ There is something the matter with us,
sisters, besides the hideous mask. Heroes
will have none of us. Kitchener was reso-
lute about leaving no Fair to wear weeds
for him, and now Padre George Smith, of
Rorke’s Drift, has passed a celibate into the
Great Beyond.
In the hot noon sunshine of a day last
week there seemed suddenly to fall a mantle
of green about the precincts of the Darling-
hurst Detention Barracks. Women, and still
more women, cheered themselves hoarse
while a tide of green confetti and emerald
flags broke against the burning strand of
the footpath. On the crest of the wave,
Dryer, Irish internee, swept through the
prison gate to the outer world. Never an
emerald yasmak among the waiting colleens,
though !
Here’s from Kelso King to say that the
Servian Canteens Fund is now rounded off
prettily. Subscriptions brought in £1)000.
and with the £lOOO from the Government the
committee has reached its objective of
£lO,OOO. A special decoration is pinned oil
the Australian Comforts Fund for all-round
service, and we are told that Charles Greg-
ory Wade is receiver and teller of all
moneys.
Mrs. Titheradge and daughter Nina are
looking up deep-sea sailings with a view to
linking up. with Madge and Frances before
autumn tints have gone from English lanes.
Son Dion will be home from the wars, and
there is his brand-new baby to be inspected.
From Invebell Times :—-
The bridegroom's presents to the bridesmaids took
the form of breeches, in which amethyst stones
formed -the adornment.
Dear, dear—the girls never wore things like
that in our day.
Rosina B.uckman, whose engagement to
Maurice d’Oisley, of the Beecham Opera Co.,
has just been press-agented, very nearly
didn't go to London. Her heart failed her
at the last moment. “I’d rather just get
along in my own country,” she confided.
than starve, in London!” She had just re-
turned to this, old town after a concert tour
-—not very brilliant in a financial sense —of
her native Maoriland. It had rained with
a persistence worthy of a better cause in
the rickety. Dominion, and the tempera-
mental Rosina landed here before breakfast
(an unholy hour on a bleak, dark morning)
to Lear the swish of half a gale. Her pas-
sage was booked, and a substantial deposit
paid, and she had three days to decide. “I
don t think I’ll go,” shivered a very damp
songbird.. “Oh, yes, you will,” said the
strong-minded friend. A hot cup of tea helped
the argument.. And three da vs later Rosina
went for so it was in those davs —by a Ger-
man steamer to .London, with John'McCor-
mack s encouraging cable as her buckler.
With the closing of the Old Gold and
silver I 1 uiid, will its executive give up a
secret? We all want to know what profit
there, was in those artificial teeth that were
sent in by many ardent patriots. Commit-
tees of other funds cast longing eyes on the
bright smile of the lady next door; but she
was allowed to keep her ivories, for these
others didn’t know how to make money out
or them. Joint bon. sec. Richardson and
his co-workers kept the secret well. But
now?
Jennie Brennan ought to be home again
(that means both Melbourne and Sydney)
any week. She is the lady who teaches
promising youngsters with the J.C.W. firm
su. , ir * on their toes in the latest craze,
s been setting new' ideas and a change
of air in Wilson’s land.


fgIIAMOND
m\ PENDANTS
Che (Pompant/ is
showing a Vi ne
ranoe oC Diamond
Set Pendants, oD
dainty & exclusive
design, to which
they invite inspec
tion.
<?el.
are
lections
sent on approval and a
copy oC the (bmpanys
catalogue will be
'varded on reQuest
discount allowed on
all cash purchases
m
MS
| mvm
m
m
vs
Q... 3
m
hne Diamond and
Platinum Pendant,
complete with Plat-
-murr.cham.in case
£273-0-0
tiAKDY DfOfflERS 1™
Jf EWEL-LER.S
15 HUNTER ST
SYDNEY
296 COLLINS S 7
MELBOURNE
116-118 QUEEN SI
BRISBANE
G-
LO N DON
Join the Happy Band
of Amateur Photographers
Buy a Gamsra
at HARRINGTONS’.
There’s a wonderful amount of pleasure
in store for you if you make yourself the
possessor of a camera —it will give addi-
tional joy in your home 1 fe, your holiday
trips, and, in very many cases, in your
business.
Call and let us show you how easy it
is to use a camera. We have a most
complete range of
The World’s Best.
E,N SIGNS— KODAKS
BROWNIES,
and other well-known makes,
AT ALL PRICES.
Ask to see the British-made Ensignette
(smallest of all Vest-pocket Cameras),
at 35/-, or the No. 2 size (takes photos 3x2 in.) at 42/6.
HARRINGTONS’ LABORATORIES
Give Best Returns from Sweepings,
Residues, etc.
Jewellers, Dentists and other Metal Workers will obtain the test returns from their
Residues, Sweepings and other Waste Products if they have them treated by us, because
our Laboratories are equipped with the most scientific appliances, and every order is
executed under the personal direction of a Qualified Chemist from the Laboratories of
Messrs. Johnson & Sons, Assayers and Metallurgists to His Majesty’s Mint, The Bank of
England, Council of India, etc.
We specialise in Assaying, Ore Testing ami Metallurgical Analysis, anti
send for materials to be treated, in city or suburbs, free of charge.
A Note or ’Phone Message to any of our branches will receive prompt
attention.
Photographic and Cinematographic Merchants,
Metallurgists, Analysts and Assayers,
386 George Street, Sydney.
93-95 Queen Street, Brisbane.
144 Queen Street, Auckland.
266 Collins Street, Melbourne.
43 Run die Street, Adelaide.
42 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Laboratories and Works: 57-59 George Street North, Sydney.
m
vr
"S,
'-'/i
m
Wf
m
m
l
A
ri
&
a
m
&
A Challenge to the
Elements in Every Roll
A challenge to changing
seasons, to the sun’s heat,
to chilly cold; to atmospheric
gases and torrential rains—
in every roll of Certain-teed
Roofing.
That's why Certain-teed has rolled
into the far corners of the earth and
served for years on every kind of ■
roof, flat or gabled. Everywhere, un-
der every condition, it has proved
weather-proof and water-tight. Does
not buckle, blister or crack. Neither
does it affect the taste or odour
of water.
Certain-teed is made and guaran-
teed by the World's largest manu-
facturer of roll roofing, paint and
building materials.
Call or write, today, and
learn more of Certain-
teed Roofing.
Australian Representative -
C. C. McCANN,
Perpetual Trustee Bldg.,
Sydney, N.f.W.
SYDNEY AGENTS —
John Danks & Son Pty. Ltd.
James Bardie & Co. Ltd®
Wunderlich Ltd.
James Sandy & Co. Ltd.
PLY
r:
Qertain'tel 2
v<©T®
Ite
Promts
\W*
BEOUI^2
NO
LABE


"Sporting Life"
and “ Victoria H
.ouse
■*
B
riar
.pes.
' 5 "“ t pf,“ounce 8 7d. »?
SSjsrste s,e,l,ns *“
OR2 to 4. —'"Good-
wood’ Pipes, best
French oriar. heavy
silver nounts, ul.
nioucn-pieces.
Price ,/6
ORS, <j - Coot,
-wood Pipes 8/6
ORI
fffOKJZ
rjfh
co^ 2
CUT
ORc
ORJ>
OR*
no
sEAUME R/S
Sydney’s Hotel de Luxe.
Clifton Gardens
nnTPi beautifully-situated RESIDENTIAL
nyiEL is unique in the Southern Hemi-
PUlhmt be -*f . JiIGHT 0N TOE HARBOR
rpnnvV>o lth l( i s own deluded BEACH AND
and AMPHITHEATRE SWIM-
G the whole surrounded by
natural Bush. }
25 Fine New Bedrooms have just
been erected built over the water,
eveiy room looking out to the Heads.
Daily service of Steamers, including Theatre
Quay f rom No. 4 Jetty, Circular
A Delightful Ferry Trip.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths.
Apply Ma nager,
CLIFTON GARDENS HOTEL,
Telephones: Y3OOl. MOSMAN, NSW.
Y 3002.
The Chateau Napier,
Leura,
Blue Mountains, N.S.W.
modei-n Residential Hotel is unique
TMirJ ° n the highest Point in
60 miles dIDS extensive views for over
A new wing has just been added, furnished
in the most modern and luxurious manner.
House heated with American ideal heating
system.
A new smoke-room with sunny open bal-
cony has been added.
Electric light throughout.
Tennis-court. Billiard-room. Motor-garage.
Golf Links and Bowling Green right handy.
Private Sitting-rooms.
Tel. 121 Ivatoomba
MCLBOURNE
CHATTER
Warners
Rusr Proof
Corsets
Who would have imagined that Federal
Government House would have developed into
a training-school for policemen? For the
last four years, it seems,"the genial Steward,
while -toiling as official sec. to the G,-G.,
has been a sort of Sherlock Holmes in the
diplomatic line. He liked the work so well
that he wished to continue it. Month after
month Bowser, the Chief Secretary, sur-
veyed the undetected crime figures and then
friends of friends of Steward whispered
where a wonderful amateur sleuth-hound
could he found. Bowser hearkened, and
Steward has become Chief Commissioner at
£9OO a year, with an allowance of £lOO.
When Steward reorganises the C. 1.8. it will
not be safe to think crime, much less com-
mit it. Lawson and Bowser declare that
no powerful influence was exercised on
Steward’s behalf. It was the new Chief’s
merit alone which caused him to be chosen!
Of course. Why flog the obvious?
Flumonia has upset the travelling arrange-
ments of many, and included in the crowd
are General Monash’s wife and daughter,
who contemplated joining up with the big
man on the other side, via Wilson’s States.
They have been'obliged to transfer to the
Osterley, and will go by tlm Suez route.
William Pearson, of Kilmany Park, who
has spent a long time in England, is on his
way home again. He didn’t get a knight-
hood.
Gus. Dudgeon died last week from
the painful malady against which he had
been putting up a plucky fight for years.
His trouble would have made many a man
a bitter recluse, but Gus turned up regu-
larly at his club and the races, golfed,
motored, and maintained a truly remarkable
cheerfulness. He was a son-in-law of Agar
Wynne and a brother-in-law of Guy Innes,
editor of the Hebald.
Hobart remains quite merry in these
masked times. Bits of cheerful chatter
float across the Straits—echoes of race meet-
ings, theatres and supper parties—mild
excitements that Melbourne has almost for-
gotten. A local horse (Tom Lyons’s Prince
Moeraki) won the Hobart Cup and all
Hobart yelled. Everybody seemed to dine
or sup at Hadley’s, and the place nearly
burst with cheers and cork-pops.
Died at 86, Michael Fenton, for many
years a haunter of Melbourne Stock
Exchange. His father, Captain Michael
Fenton, a veteran of the first Burmese
War, settled in Tasmania in 1829 and was
one of the “Patriotic Six” who resigned
their seats in the Leg. Council as a protest
against Governor Wilmot’s proposal to tax
the. settlers for the upkeep of “the system.”
“Mick” Fenton had a long memory and had
yarns to tell of Sir John Franklin, Buckley
(the escapee from Collins’s settlement at
Sorrento), Smith O’Brien, and many Van
Demonian characters. His mother, a cousin
of the Lawrences of Mutiny fame, had kept
a voluminous diary.
Dr. Leigh Atkinson, the young Bendi-
gonian who is bearing his share of will
worries, has added flumonia to his other
troubles.
Lieut.-Colonel Alan Burgoyne, the curly-
haired young Australian who is head of
Burgoynes, the wine house, got back his
Kensington seat in the English House of
Commons with a nice majority of 10,000
votes. Alan, who had written prophetic-
ally about the Great Clash, distinguished
himself when it actually came to pass.
Captain Walter Swan Edgar, M.C., now
on his way home, left for overseas as a
trooper in the Bth Light Horse. His war-
service included Gallipoli and France.
Brother Ronald was killed at Gaza, and two
other brothers have also seen service. Their
dad is John Edgar, of Mornington, who in
his younger days had Ivadnook squattage, at
Hariow. Grandfather David Edgar was
one of the Scottish pioneers of the Harrow
district, where he owned Pine Hills, which
is still held by the family. John Edgar
married a daughter of William Swan, of
Ivonongwootong—another hall-marked pion-
eer of the time , when the Western District
had weevils in its flour and made its own
soap.
Mrs, Fred Payne, who, with Mrs. George
Chirnside, spent most of the war-time enter-
taining wounded and on-leave Aussies in
Blighty, got back in time for Christmas.
She already looks younger and plumper for
the change from the short vittles of Old
England to the full-and-plenty of Aus-
tralia. On Tuesday and Wednesday last,
with Ella Guthrie, she got busy again on
patrioties and fed 200 Billjims in the
Botanical Gardens, while a band played on
a lorry. Several sweet young things helped
to hand the refreshments, and there were a
few speeches, including one by Mrs. Payne.
The widow of the late artist Mather is
mourning for her soldier son, Lieut.-Col.
Mather, D. 5.0., who was found dead in his
bed last month. So far, no details are to
hand. The Australian officer was to have
married a French girl.
Lovely woman soon adapts her mask to
her commonest needs. A flapper appeared
in a tram the other day with her small
germ-trap posing as a bag around her neck.
Later on she produced her tram-ticket from
the receptacle and followed up with a
powder-puff, another dive revealing a
mirror to help the usual operation.
A fine type of Australian got home when
Dr. Charles Littlejohn stepped ashore with
the Military Cross, the 1914 Mons Medal
and the Belgian Croix de Guerre amongst
his baggage. He is the son of “Wullie”
Littlejohn, head of Scotch College, which
has turned out many sterling Billjims.
“Doc” Littlejohn was Rhodes Scholar in
1909, and went to New College, Oxford, row-
ing in the eight in 1912 when Oxford won.
He fought through Mons, the Marne, the
Aisne, the first battle of Ypres, then
Salonika, and back to France again, where
he saw the fine work of the Aussies at Pass-
chendaele, Villers Bretonneux and other
stunts. He brings to Australia a wife, who
was formerly Miss Robertson, daughter of
Sir William Robertson, of Dunfermline.
Dr. Yal McDonald, who cast aside his
forceps to do war service in Egypt, has come
back to Melbourne. Mrs. McDonald was a
Sydney girl, Everill Forsyth, of Burwood.
The Leslie Stuarts managed to have an
auction of the furniture in Logan House.
’Flu restrictions nearly postponed the sale,
but the various “lots” were carried into the
garden and knocked down there. The Stuarts
took over the Fred Fairbairn furniture
with the house; but the new owners want
to get going on their own scheme of decora-
tion, so the Fairbairn stuff went under the
hammer.
Captain Elliot Murray, the tall soldier-
son of the well-known wool family, is sur-
veying the Block again after a long absence.
Captain Elliot’s mother, Mrs. Earle, a vali-
ant Red Crosser, crept out of hospital to
meet her son.
Sister Nan Reay,
pictured here, is
scheduled to .be
married in England
one day before this
issue of The Bul-
letin is published—
on Wednesday, Feb-
ruary 19. He r
bridegroom-elect is
Major Sampson, a
specialist surg eon
who hails from Birm-
ingham. Sister Nan
is the daughter of
Colonel Reay, well
known in Australia
—he used to -be
editor of our ’Erald.
Nan, the bonny Aus-
tralian girl, was in
England when war broke out. She had been
a sister in the Melbourne Hospital, and
volunteered at once for active service. She
was in France during the terrible first stages,
and has the Mons Cross. She also has the
Royal Red Cross and has been at work right
through the war. _ The Colonel is in Eng-
land, Mrs. Reay in Australia. Nan is her
fifth daughter to get married, and Mrs. Reay
has not been at the wedding of any of them.
Seas have been between each time.
Adelaide gets her despatch through:—
“Bob” Rees, who went to London a few months
ago on a business trip, is to stay there as manager
of Dalgety’s export department. Meanwhile his
bride-elect, Miss Johnson, has her boxes packed
ready to join him as soon as the quarantine regula-
tions will allow her to get through to Sydney and
board. a London-bound ship.
Jhe Exhibition Building has been turned into an
Isolation Hospital, and this, incidentally, has
squeezed the School of Arts but of its quarters. But
the school has found temporary premises in the lec-
ture-room and gallery of the Public Library’s Insti-
tute building on North Terrace.
Polo enthusiasts rallied at Plympton on Saturday
to watch some new players and old hands getting into
form. Mrs. H. C. Downer was afternoon-tea hostess,
and her husband: and brother-in-law were two of
the most vigorous players.
The R.S.A. is protesting against the issue of re-
turned soldiers’ badges to Red Cross and Y.M.C.A.
workers. In its opinion such badges should be the
property of fighters only, and some other outward
and visible sign of service rendered should be de-
signed for civilians who have held honorary military
rank.
Through the Sailors and Soldiers’ Fathers’ Associa-
tion Mr. Kidman has donated £5OO as the nucleus
of a fund for planting an “Honor Avenue” along
the Bay-road. His suggestion is that the avenue
should extend from Keswick to Glenelg, and that
the trees should bear the names of sailors, soldiers
and nurses who have fallen.
_ Major V. M. Newland, with his wife and small
children, has returned from East Africa. He helped
to drive the Hun out of his possessions there, and
has an M. 0., D.C.M. and 0.8. E.
Just w'hen I was wondering whether my fortune
would run to a fish meal, a motorist from the
South-East testified to a “continuous bank” of dead
fish along the Coorong, averaging two feet deep and
extending for five or six miles. Apparently they
had been washed out of the salt water into the
fresh, and the change hadn’t agreed with them.
Richard Smith, one of the Adelaide men who
built up the big hardware firm of Harris, Scarfe
and Co., is lying ill at his home at Glenelg. The
trouble is a form of paralysis, not immediately dan-
gerous, but quite incapacitating. His son, Harold
Law Smith, has taken his place on various Boards.
They lately put
Anzac artist Jimmy
Macdonald into hos-
pital at Caulfield to
treat him for an old
Gallipoli wou n d.
Jimmy had just got
home and had laid in
a stock of MS.
paper and pens to
get to work on his
war book, which is
already written in
the rough. He will
illustrate it himself.
When Jimmy was
knocked out of a&tive
service the War
Office gave him a job
in England in which
he could utilise his
art knowledge. The Ralph Vaughans
l Vaughan is a crack composer in England)
gave him and his wife and family the
Joan of their house in London while he was
working. The soldier-artist is a son of
now-dead solicitor Macdonald of Melbourne.
T» High Commissioner George
Reads eldest son, Douglas, who has been
fighting with the English artillery, is to
marry a Blighty war-widow, Enid Becli
whose late husband, Captain Becli, M.C.’
tell m France. Her father, Dr. C' IL
Brown, practises medicine at King’s Lynn. ’
tt A /.i e ' et , on . girl bound for the altar is the
Harold Leviens’ Myee, who intends to
change her surname to Hatch. Her-fiance is
the only son of the Geo. Hatch pair, of Mal-
vern. Myee is grandchild of the late Felix
Lovien, of the Victorian Parliament, and
his pietty, plump little widow, who years
back migrated to England to be with her
daughter.
Captain Weinholt, D.S.O. and bar, is
booked for early matrimony with a local
giil. The scarlet-headed hero, who caught
hi’ decoration in the recent scrimmage, also
saw a lot of the trouble in S’Africa. One or
two elections back he unsuccessfully opposed
Andy Fisher for the Wide Bay seat in the
House ot Reps.
D’Arcy Addison, Tasmanian Under-Secre-
tary, who has become engaged to the Downer
dame, is being made a great fuss of in Hobart
at present. D’Arcy is a local Apple Island
product, but has a real Bond-street look. He
is a popular young man and bears the brunt
of all the Premier’s late appointments,
lauline Curran, the social butterfly of
Hobart* gave a big dinner party at Hadley’s
m honor of the engagement.
Lieut Maurice Burke celebrated his
release, from a Hun prison-camp by marry-
ing Hilda Derry, an English girl who spent
S/ ai 'V n , Australia with her people.
Geialdine Burke, sister of Maurice, has
announced her intention of wedding re-
turned Anzac Eric Moorehead.
. y he very likeable Auntie Gladys Phipps,
sister of Lady Fuller, late of Government
House has become Mrs. Russell Landaß
Russell. is a nephew of Toorak’s popular
dowager Mrs. Alec Landale, of Aroona. The
tall, dark I liipps girl was once engaged to
poor Geoff Kiddle, who died of wounds in
Mesopotamia.
a ,, bri f honeymoon visit to Macedon,
AT^ 0 "* Chirnside has flown with
biMe Mawis to his Western District
wmViTi In i the bell °wing ’eighties there
wou.d have been a jamboree arranged by the
station folk, with perhaps a specially-
devised _ corroboree and kangaroo hunt. But
those picturesque days have passed, and the
squa tocracy now glides home in motors to
find ice buckets and pianolas.
Miss McConagliy, the Irishwoman who
was such a good friend to Billjim in the
nn? S h V hased th e Senussi and Abdul
out of Egypt and Palestine, was doing
missionary work at Jaffa prior to-the out-
Misi r° f A V r ai ’ru Wlth a Syrian girl assistant,
Miss G. M. Ghoreyeb. When Abdul made
a dash for the Canal the two ladies fled to
Cairo, and when Miss McConaghy took
charge of the Australian Comforts Fund
Miss Ghoreyeb acted as her secretary. In
spare time the little Syrian lady wrote
articles about the manly qualities of Trooper
Billjim, and these appeared in American
•and English newspapers. She is at present
writing a book about her experiences amongst
“the chaps with the felt hats,” as Abdul
called our men. Afterwards she is going
to see how Bill does things in his native
Australia.
Versatile Cecilia John, who used to be an
organiser associated with Vida Peacestein in
the palmy days of the Women’s l'olitical
Association, now does her bit for the uplift-
ing of the masses by teaching at the People’s
Conservatorium. Dinkum unionists may
take their choice of lessons in singing from
Cecilia, or in piano-pounding, Addling or
the ’cello —the ’cello is taught by old-stager
Louis Hattenbach —and the fee is a mere
2s. 6d. a week. * In one of her previous
incarnations Cecilia had a chook-farm; in
another she used her experiences in press
work.
Collingwood, which has provided a lot of
funerals during the ’flu outbreak, has found
time, in the midst of its troubles, to consider
a matter of the civic dignity—the state of
the mayoral robes, to wit. The .robes are not
robes, of course, but merely a flowing fur
garment which the Mayor slips on over his
coat and vest and dicky when he wants to
look sojnething special. However, what
there is of them is in a condition that de-
mands immediate attention, being well-nigh
in tatters. Indeed, it is disclosed that the
Mayor has of late been hard put to it to keep
the various sections of robe assembled while
“makinv his entry” to the council chamber;
so the Council has just voted £25 for bringing
the duds up to date. To judge by the hospi-
tal figures there are several other directions
in which money might also be expended for
repairs to the local system ; but all true re-
form must be begun at the right end and the
thing done properly—done properly.
The theatre doors are closed, but the
Itigo co. is at work rehearsing new operas.
Since she became unemployed Muriel
Starr has struck up a friendship with Shak-
speare. The J. C. Williamson press-agent
that Muriel has always admired
William, but in the past has been too
engrossed with the works of George Broad-
hurst and others to devote much time to
mm.. I.here is talk of the Firm allowing
Muriel to try her hand at Rosalind, Portia
and Kate the shrew.
One Victorian soldier is doing his best to
repatriate himself with the assistance of the
Argus
Returned SoMier, cultured, handsome, industrious,
DUt in straitened circumstances, wishes to meet Girl
ample means; car-owner preferred; view to above!
Or is it Senator Millen flying a kite? It
would ease liis burdens if lie could get the
boys settled that way.
The ancient seaside village of Portland,
whmh °f recent years has floated a con-
siderabie summer population, has had its
hash-towers shaken to their foundations.
7 negations were freely made that there were
two cases of ’flu aboard the Eumeralla, just
£?lv fr ° m , M ® lbourne - The Best People
hastily packed up their silk pyjamas,
warmed into their motor-cars and tore off
Hnn ° P ?? country - Medical investiga-
didn’f o^ e r t ‘Tn ProVed that the ’ fl u cases
seasKk qnif® su s erers were merely
■ “till, by the time the yarn was
had fllT aad , s< 3« elched - the holiday-visitors
buttei " muslin was almost un-
smmhf . aanoun cement of Bohemia’s long-
ugl independence has given a new lease
ot hfe to a bright-eyed, charming old
in musical was once well-known
Boema s lb/ 11 ' 0 e? ? ere - Mrs - Cabrielle
mema is the patriot s name. She has lons
retired from the sffge, but in her prime
tour ?! Amei- ica with Patti
p„kalian opera. Boema alternated with
Italians ° f the , *sles. Visidng
Shi^i^r 6 n=eSS?d * m ßoe m °a f
ctt^ d aS
ahan has made her perfect in the language.
Geleraf aid pS lar n’ K( ?;’ MP ’ Solicitor-
s'?;; 1211 / d r l 2a Y y Councillor, etc., in “The
as the °L n M of Llfe ’”,, telps h 9w he started
slept under counter^S
S bSl fa it r ’ S -r Austria
. oecame a millionaire and the fW
biSfeft baVOD ?-’’ Edward Clarke was
cases include ae t C ) 10n T Wlth many celebrated
Parneirfe
S/sil? Cordon-Gumming a
accusation of J u connecti on with an
Croft whilst h T> ng at cards at Tranby
wards Kin? tm* rince of Wales, after-
TTndoi. +1 g Edward, was on the premises
would St e her rC hT St “ nCK , a ” “S:
banged for it. aCCUSe,i of ““"i"


llilill img <s'4
a > i ,>.s i 1
m it W
ferffi
I
a
y >
* ••' -V
'
:
£ si
in
K ■
B£
BSS
3J
11
a»
ifasMr
I
S£S«
II
«*«
II
KM**
I’B
m
; gsjJß
#
.i
W\
a
Mw
m
i it
m
mi
ae. ?
M
m
mmSM,
w
111
i
PS
HI
,4
r -
i
l
Step
S' -
H
sss!
Hi
uni
mm
m
u
m
m
tfiiPfiilii
liiMl I MtiSttil m
n
55«
i i : ■■ '
|||Jk4»»s| I H -m
PMiti: ‘1 Cl. I
*ll
HUB
%,*? lips
HUH
■
SMi
Biiuik
1
iiyn hi in m
ii" 1
m
i
ira
Hi
«
■i .»•
ay
i
I
m
' ! I
; :i
1M
■
Pi
’
a*
Is
■
r : * .^.f-.vWs.Y^Jij!
Nun iiiiiiiiiiiiiin'i ( in .
*■l
'
iswai
s§uip(ing ssdq) 9uibu noi
has proved its value in actual use in Australia on permanent buildings of tbe highest
class, as well as on all other classes of buildings, and protects a greater value of property
than all other roll roofings put together.
Malthoid is not the same as others.
May we lend you our free booklet of 71 illustrations of buildings, all of which are roofed with Malthoid,
including the above ? It will interest you even if you are not interested in Roofing. A request on a post-
card will bring it by return.
THE PARAFFINE COMPANIES INC. (F. M. Prince, Australasian Manager), CHALLIS HOUSE, SYDNEY.


When dealing' with humanity’s natural enemies—
plague, pestilence, famine—“wisdom is the principal
tliipg.” The ’flu microbe will surely beat the pessi-
mist, so keep a smiling face and drink King
George IV., the whisky of the wise.— Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redlern, Sydney.
LEWIS &WfiiTTY
MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
Grand DrinK
ftftftXK
I^77*
Do Your Pals a Good
Turn -Introduce The m
ho Hie Gneal* R^resheji
SPORTING
NOTIONS
“ON TOP” WITH
MICK SIMMONS
SURE CATCH TACKLE
It is an odd thing that most of the bast'
and most obvious reforms at headquarters have come
from the pony-courses. Only a few years ago book-
makers at, for example, Randwiflk stood about any-
where. The punter who didn’t know his bookie by
sight, and who had omitted to locate him by taking
a bearing or what-not, came along to collect, and
was baffled. He found a howling wilderness of per-
haps 120 penoillers with their assistants. It was
regarded by the trade as a dastardly act for one
bookie to "disclose the location of another. The
successful punter was in the position of one seeking
for a ham in a ghetto. Now McNoses is forced to
stand at least two feet above the level of the crowd.
Ilis name and number must be oil his stand, and
they figure in every race-book. It is possible for the
dullest or tile most blithered to find him within
five minutes.
Ahother reform which has come to Randwick via
the ponies is the starting-board showing the position
dravtn at the post by- the different jockeys. Previ-
ously the general public had no knowledge of this.
The information was only obtainable from a three-
foot-lo.ng contrivance on the wall of the members’
staled.
But the most useful pony notion of all to be
adopted was that which compels all jockeys to mount
in the enclosure. In the days when each hoy went
to his horse’s stall to mount, an army of touts and
whisperers intercepted him. His final instructions
became the property of an interested section whose
heelers did not hesitate to make him offers to stiffen
his mount on occasion. A dishonest jockey can still
be dishonest, and a betting jockey can still communi-
cate with his punter at the last moment—but only
in hobbles, so to speak.
* * * *
In the Hawera Stakes on Friday Desert
Gold carried 9st. lib. (31b. above w.f.a.), and the
victorious three-year-old Gloaming Bst. 111 b. (71b.
penalty). His time for the mile was lmin. 40 2-ssec.
-X- * * *
One of the Sydney dailies remarked last
week that the lameness from which Biplane suffered
just before the A.J.G. Spring meeting “came from
the off round-bone.” It is mostly charged whenever
a racehorse goes lame behind, and yet, in fact, this
variety of lameness is very rare. It is likelier that
Bipjane —who is going perfectly sound now, by the
way —strained one of the bunch of muscles between
the round-bone and the spine, an injury to any one
of which would have been enough to make him go
short. Biplane is just the sort to strain himself
in this way. He is as eager in his exercise as he
is in a raoe. And the tan at Randwick is a perilous
place nowadays for an animal of his type. The
tan, which is laid over a cinder formation, is much
finer than the sort that was available in pre-war
days, and when wet it is as slippery aa grease.
“P”: “J” (B. 30/1/19) says that “Jack
Rice is only good in N. S. Wales, his conformation
making him essentially a right-handed horse.” And
yet on three different occasions he had races at
Caulfield at his mercy, and only lost them because
he ran off. lie was well in front in the Australian
Hurdles (now the Caulfield G. N. Hurdles) when he
ran off three furlongs from home. He scored a
second in the Doutta Galla Hurdles and another
second in the last Australian Steeple, being among
the, topweights at the time. As a matter of fact,
Jack has had more than his share of bad luck in
Victoria.
Brownie Carslake, the Australian jockey,
put up an excellent performance in England for the
past flat-racing season, securing 42 wins, and coming
second on the list of winning riders. S'. Donoghue
was on top for the fifth year in succession; out of
270 rides he scored 66 wins. English authorities
look upon Carslake, who is a Melbourne boy, as a
formidable rival to Donoghue, as the Australian’s
judgment of pace and strength in finishing is re-
markable.
* * * *
Not often in our brief racing history has
there been such a row as occurred at the Gawler
(S.A.) meeting last Saturday after the running of
the Willaston Welter. There was only about a
nose between the three placed horses, and when the
judge gave his decision two-thirds of the punters
went mad. Disregarding the remaining third, who
pointed out that the judge’s effort was a marvel
of perspicuity, they first tried to destroy the num-
ber-board and then to exterminate the judge. This
kind of foolishness used to be confined to European
crowds. The Parisians, for example, made quite
a habit at one time of setting fire to the pari-
mutuel because a favorite had lost.
When Gloaming, the great Maoriland
sprinter, won the Egmont Stakes recently at the
ll aw era meeting, the stake piled his winnings over
the £lO,OOO mark —£10,019 to be exact. Gloam-
ing has raced with Desert Gold three times within
the past fortnight, and beaten her twice.
' Reverting to' Cragg’s case, it is really an
anomalous thing that a: rider should be held guilty
of “carelessness,” or anything else, because his
mount runs down the fence or up it, or, in other
words, jumps the wrong panel. What jockey is there
with experience of riding over fences who will
claim to be able to make a horse jump straight in
the event of the animal deciding to jump otherwise?
There have been jumpers not far from the champion-
ship class who habitually van down their fences
with the best of riding talent up. Notably Lady
Ashton, who, after a career almost as successful as
it was horrifying, was ejected from the game for
falling with and killing her rider. Kulkine, who
came years later, was another of the same type. In
order to lure him over (say) the panel nearest the
wings, his rider had to aim his head at the third
panel. On his head being relinquished 20 or 30
yards from the fence, the brute bored right away
and ended by jumping in his proper position. Any-
one is tt> blame but the rider of this sort of calamity
—the stipes who let the brute start, the trainer who
is ’ responsible for his manners, or the owner who
pays a fellow-citizen to risk his neck and that of
others by piloting him in a race.
The death of C. Paton, the Melbourne
jockey, in the Launceston Cup, has stirred up
another controversy concerning the merits of the
skull-cap—which Paton was- not wearing at the time
of his death. It is quite' likely that a cap would
have saved him. But just as, even in the front-line
trenches, many men would not wear steel hats t'll
they were made to, so in races most jockeys will take
a chance in the matter of skull-caps—-if they can.
The A.J.G. has urged the wearing of skull-caps by
circular; and the rest of the big racing-clubs have
expressed approval of the device. But there is only
one effective procedure —to refuse to weigh any boy
out who is without a protective cap of a regulation
pattern. The tall silk hat, which is still worn in
the hunting field with many packs of hounds, has
anyhow one merit to counteibalance- its insane appear-
ance. Its concertina-like properties have saved
many a man from a broken neck. The writer knows
one great ex-jockey who, in his palmy days, never
rode work without a heavy bowler hat, and if he
remembered he put a sponge inside. In races,
however, like so many others, he chanced it, with
nothing between his skull and the ground but one
thickness of silk.
The closing of Melbourne’s “down-the-
line” racecourses has temporarily stopped one
horror. A glass of beer at the outer-suburban race-
course bar has from time immemorial included a
certain amount of Yan Yean, a tub of water being
used for “washing” emptied glasses, after the
ancient method “abolished” by the Board of Health
in city groggeries a few years ago. But no doubt
the practice will resume once tlie ’flu outbreak sub-
sides. The Board can’t be bothered about a little
thing like that!
Gillis, a horse-soldier from S.A., writing
from Palestine: They may talk about their Arab
steeds, but our horses have proved their mettle on
this front. They can beat any other horse in the
world, and they have surprised the enemy, who
candidly admits he has never seen anything like
them before.
* A * *
A characteristic Australian jest is
recorded in the letters of Lieut. Adrian Stephen,
of Sydney. The “leaning Virgin” of Albert was
famous for two years during the war. Touched by
a German shot, the figure on top of the church fell
over to the horizontal, and there stopped, threat-
ening always to plunge down into the street. The
figure became famous. Legends grew around it. But
it took Billjim to appreciate the significance of the
feminine form poised as if for downward flight.
“Hallo!” said he, on first catching sight of it,
“Annette Kellerman!”
East Torrens has landed the first round
of Adelaide cricket, with a mostly-untried team.
Townsend, besides being a useful bowler —as he
showed in the inter-State match against Victoria —
is a mighty left-handed slogger. He won the final
game, against Adelaide (old Joe Travers, Rundell
and Co.), with 128, including four sixers and 13
fours ; but he was missed before he had scored, and
more than once afterwards. The same afternoon saw a
painful sight—a team’ playing against the clock
to save a one-innings defeat. Glenelg, having no
hope against Sturt, blocked everything. One
patient person batted 75 minutes for six. The
last man came in with a quarter of an hour to
spare, but kept his wicket up. The depressing
total was nine for 53.
South Aus. claims a new cricket record.
In a match clayed between Salisbury and a team
from Glanville, C. Dayman (skipper" of Salisbury)
took three wickets with his first three deliveries;
but the still more remarkable thing .about the
performance was that the wicketkeeper (S. Price)
stumped the lot.
X. G. Dean, who is a returned soldier,
gave a performance on Saturday that made the
denizens of Toorak Park gasp. Playing "for East
Melb. he hit five fours in one over. The bowling
was changed. Facing the new man he hit a*
single, a six and three fours off his first over.
And it was all sound cricket, too!
V. S. Ransford, who made 126 for Mel-
bourne v. S. Melb., was the only centurion of the
day in district cricket. The language, by the
way, of the barrackers on the Melbourne ground
was as sulphurous as the weather, which during
most of the afternoon was well over the 100 deg.
* * * *
Alan Kippax (Waverley) is doing as well
in Sydney Grade as he did in schoolboy cricket. In
successive matches he has scored 100 (v. Central
Cumberland), 153 (v. Glebe), and 156 ( v . Bal-
main) ; and in seven innings this season he has
made 552 runs, average 78.85.
Died in Adelaide, at something over 70,
W. O. Whitridge, one of S. Australia’s earliest
cricket enthusiasts. Connected with the Register, he
got that paper interested in the game; and the
boosting thus given had much to do with the exceed-
ing popularity of cricket in the little State which
produced Giffen, Lyons, Jarvis, Darling, Hill and
other great players.
* * ■* #
Mick Simmons's annual, Angler’s Guide,
has just been published for the 15th time. In 84
pages you are told how to catch fish, where to
catch them, how to get there, what they are
when you’ve caught them, and how to cook them
afterwards. There is also a good variety of fish-
lies to tell when you haven’t had any luck.
The Guide features dozens of different rods
and scores of reels, as well as spinners, spoons,
casts, flies and innumerable other devices that were
never heard of locally a generation or so ago. The
mainland of Australia is going ahead as a trout-
carrying country, and tunny and Spanish mackerel
fishing is more popular than ever. Meanwhile the
fish near the big cities grow yearly more and
more sophisticated. Ten years ago" it was regarded
as affectation to go after black-bream with a
split-cane rod. To-day the fisherman who doesn’t
use a rod of some sort is pitied as a mug.
* * * *
Major G. C. Campbell, of Adelaide, being
unable to accept
the job of manager
of the team of
cricketing Diggers
to tour England,
another S. Aus.
soldier has been
appointed Majo-r
G. S. Do w n.
Down is a popular
business man and
crickete r—h e
played for Adel-
aide prior to enlist-
ing in - Melbourne.
Before coming to
S. Aus. he repre-
sented St. Kilda in
A-grade cricket. He
was included in sev-
ir a 1 in t er-State
teams for S. Aus.,
and was a member
of Mayne’s team
which toured North
America some years
ago. Being a
smart field and re-
liable bat he will
be a handy man if
he can -.spare, tim’e
to play.- Barbour
(N.S.W.); and Park
(vie.) and Down
will select the
. team and submit to
the Board of Con-
trol for confirma-
tion.
There was a big sports meeting recently
at the famous Stamford Bridge Grounds in
Blighty.' The defeat of Jack Donaldson by the
American Kirksey and the Australian C. J. Mens
came as a shock to many; but Donaldson was
responsible for the fitness of the team which repre-
sented the Home Forces of the Army, and lie had
their well-being to consider besides his own condi-
tion. The team under his charge won the con-
tests by 13 points, which shows the worth of the
training at Aldershot, under Donaldson’s eye. Don-
aldson won the 220yds. flat race rather comfortably
in 22 4-ssec.
The 100yds. was- done in even time (un-
official watches made it a fifth under) by W. W.
Hunt in the Dunn Shield Championship ’ (Sydney)
last Saturday. To win Hunt had to beat J. H.
Leadley (’Varsity), the schoolboy crack of 1915.
In the Metropolitan championships in 1916, Hunt,
then only 19, was runner-up to G. Hansel (since
killed in action) in bo,th 100yds. (10 2-ssec.) and
220yds; and in recent months he has run “evens”
repeatedly. -Ilis finish is exceptionally fine, and
with more attention to the earlier part of the
sprint he should soon put new figures on the
book.
* * * *
J. Iv. Harbison won the pole-vaulting with
' i ; ’ " ■' he afterwards blew Dunn Shield
records sky-high with 10ft. Jumping has always
been his strong point. At the Combined Sydney
High School championships in 1916 he won the
high jump (sft. sin.) and pole vault (9ft. 3in.—
a schools record), the 120vds. hurdles and broad
jump.
Dave Smith claims to have unearthed a
heavy-weight champion. But no one can tell a
champion till he has been tried in public. Jim
Sullivan was a boxing champion, but be couldn’t
take a hiding. The same applies to Jeff Smith and
countless others. Dave himself was a champilsn in
everything' but the ability to withstand McGoorty s
left hook. Darcy didn’t look much like a cham-
pion when Fritz Holland first met and licked him.
He was slow and his effective punches were few.
Strength and the capacity to stand punishment
were about the only championship qualities wh ch
he evinced on that occasion. They are essential
assets which cannot be properly tested for value in
a gymnasium. As a matter of fact, Dave Smith
has the likeliest coming champion in Australia
in his string—namely “Frosty” Darcy.
* * * *
According to a cable of last Monday,
Carpentier has signed articles to meet the winner
of matches between Joe Beckett, Frank Goddard
and Bombardier Wells. Wells, if he stands up,
should win the right to meet the Frenchman. Ee
is in form at the moment. On the other hand,
Goddard is just the type of forceful, hard-punching
fighter that has always been fatal to him. In any
case the projected fixture has little interest. If Car-
pentier is as good as he might be there is only
one man to give him a match —Jack Dempsey. If
he is still only in the Wells class his boxing sun
has begun to set. Incidentally, John Wren is
negotiating to get Carpentier to box in Australia.
* * * *
A returned soldier got into a train at
Sydney last week and started playing cards with
a couple of stranger/s. By the time they reached
Gosford he had lost his all —£42—and his companions
got out, “for refreshments,” and never returned.
It is an old axiom amongst crooks that the supply
of mugs never peters out. But it would be
limited a good deal if every wanderer in possession
of ready cash made up his mind either (1) not to
play at all with strangers, or (2) not to play high
with them. The stranger who wants to play for
high stakes is always a crook —there are no excep-
tions to the rule. Where the mug falls in in
99 cases out of a hundred is through having the
idea projected into his consciousness that the advan-
tage is with him —in brief, that he is going to
swindle the crook. Never, brethren, wager a
bigger sum than 2d. with the man who first suggests
a gamble, and then with apparent unconsciousness
discloses means by which he may himself be taken
down. It is the basis on which every sharper works
from the humble three-card-trick operator to the
mail-boat magnate who clamors for poker at un-
limited rises.
* * * *
When George Carpentier meets the winner
of the matches between Bombardier Wells, Frank
Goddard and Joe Beckett later in the year, he will
be 25. He was born at Lens, the northern French
coalfield which the Huns hung on to so hard.
“Tout”: Re “Ingleara” and bettiiig sys-
tems (B. 30/1/T9). In the brave days before P.
C. McCann and the Yic. Gaming Act got to work,
and bookies did business in a blind alley off Queen-
street, three of the local “heads” agreed on a
race, and the names of popular songs were placed
alongside those of the starters. Number One went
to the course and ’phoned the result to No. Two at
a Queen-street pub, who “wirelessed” it to No.
Three (who was with the betrayed Israelite) by
piercingly whistling a couple of bars. The ramp
only ended when all public ’phones were removed
from Melbourne racecourses. •
The nor’-easter was showing all his teeth
when the 18-footers fled out on Saturday under the
Sjalney Club’s rag. The tide was ebbing right up
to the start for the first division, and a big sea was
running. Seven boats were absent from the first
heat, one of them capsizing before the start. Two
of the six starters were beaten by the weather and
only four finished. Mississippi blew home 55sec.
ahead of Sunny South, with the H. C. Press 2min.
25sec. away third. - Rosetta took the second heat
from Kismet by 18sec., and Mavis (scratch) splashed
in third 24sec. to the bad. The final was sailed in a
hurricane which snapped the mast of Sunny South
just when things were looking bright for that craft.
Mississippi raced home 44sec. ahead of Kismet, with
Rosetta. 51sec. away and Mavis 2min. 2Ssec. behind
Rosetta. H. C. Press and Rocket were the only
others to finish.
* * * *
The Vie. duck-shooting season opened on
Saturday. The idiotic Vic. regulation bv which the
zero hour -for the massacre is set at midnight was
fatal to most of. the guns. In many localities
the watches did not synchronise, or something, and
a barrage of No. 4 shot came down long before the
legal hour. Bv 12 o’clock evervone was firing,
more or less, with the result that long before day-
break the quarry was flying miles high and suffering
from shell-shock. The Jeparit and Kerang districts
applied tiie nest sport.
* * * *
The giant Anderson family (six are over
6ft.) is still doing great things in N. S. Wales
tennis. Last week Jim and Dick defeated Poeklev
and Goodman (6-4, 6-0) in the Northern Suburbs
doubles championship. A few days earlier Jim and
Clarence won the Western Suburbs doubles cham-
pionship. Four years ago Jim defeated H. A.
Parker for the N.S.W. singles, and he is still the
holder of the title. Elias began the season with
Western Suburbs at cricket; but getting a “duck”
in the opening match, gave iV up in favor of golf. at
which he is a first-flighter. Dal, of the same, family,,
joined in the greatest game of all. He died fighting:
last year.
A long-standing amateur bike-record toppAad
into the dustbin at Sydney last week, when Gem'Jd
Ilalpin cut the quarter-mile standing start unpaired
figures down to 30sec. Arthur Smythe put up the
previous best (34sec.) just on 15 years ago. 'Eke
world’s professional figures for 1 the “quarter” belong
to Major Taylor (25'2-Seec. at Paris, 19ff8J ;■ and
Don Walker (29sec. at Sydney in 1&98) holds; the
best for Australasia.
~ * * *
Sgt. Lai Reedman,. who won the IQO yards
championship of South Aus. the other mght at
Uiiley, only recently returned from the Front. He
had influenza and was quarantined cm Torrens
Marrd.. It wtf® considered this would affect his
pace ;■ fet he- vran in fine style. Lai has am elder
brother* Sid (the Headmans are a well-known S.
An*, spirting family-);,, who has lately been breaking;
the minute on. the Somme.
TO CERTAIN ANZACS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When Fritz went mad and set the world on fire
You were the men who rushed to face his might.
Laughing you sailed for desert or for mire,
For sickness, wounds, or death by day or nignt.
Old men and women watched, with hearts aglow,
“There,” the;' said proudly, “the true sportsmen
go.”
France asked no better citizens than you
Because you stood for Sport’s unwritten code;
You helped the small, the frail, the old, the few,
However tough the job or hard the road,
Until “le Sport Australien” became
A phrase resplendent, like an oriflamme.
A thousand times when things were at their
worst,
At Villcrs, Suvla Bay, the Menin-road,
When “guts” ’ were needed, ■or some fierce, wild
burst,
You answered, without grousing, to the goad.
Shouted, or groaned—always it was the same:
“Be sports, boys, stick it out, and play the
game !’’
You, to see hardship now in quarantine
Who have lived through a winter on the Somme !
You; who the guardians of the weak have been,
To be a menace to the weak at home !
For shame! On Anzae none asked why or how:
As you were sportsmen then, be sportsmen now.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


Deep Breathing is the Vital
Force of IJife
The Passport to Good Health.
It is oxygen that gives the blood its sparkling redness the
bodv its* warmth and energy —that makes it possible for tne
food we eat to be transformed into bone, muscle and tissue..
Since it is the duty of the lungs to supply the blood with
oxygen, deep breathing should, be the foundation of every
system of exercise.
A great majority of people are shallow chested —sufferers
from oxygen starvation- —and yet they wonder why they
are fatigued, depressed, under weight—why their vital
organs fail in their duty.
The deep-breathing exercises included in my
Postal Course of Health and Strength Culture?
are most modern, efficient and successful.
They build up weak chests by strengthening the lungs,
developing the muscles supporting the chest walls, broaden-
ing the shoulders, and making you breathe in a natural
way. The exercises you receive will be those most suitable
for your individual physique, just as the particulars you
furnish tell me you require.
I have written a book entitled “HEALTH AND STRENGTH
FROM SELF-CULTURE,” which tells all about my methods,
fees, etc. It will be sent to your 'address on request. Just
write your name and address across this advertisement and
post it to me. I will know what you mean. Send three
penny stamps for postage.
REG. L. (‘Snowy’) BAKER,
“The All-round
Champion Athlete
< of Australia,"
859 BELMONT BUILDINGS, SYDNEY
The Dog Medicines!
Beware of
Substitutes.
BEDPOME’S
EXTERNAL
STIMULATOR.
Indispensable for Rac-
ing Greyhounds, to
alleviate stiffness and
fatigue. Used by the
leading Breeders.
Price, 3/6.
ALTERATIVE
MIXTURE.
Splendid tonic, creates
an appetite, gives a
fine gloss to the coat,
keeps the dog in per-
fect health, prevents
distemper.
Price, 2/6, 5/-
Booklet “ B,” “ Hints to Dog 1 Owners,”
Price 6d., post free.
R. W. BEDDOME & CO.,
THE DOG MEDICINE SPECIALISTS,
254 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
Obtainable from JOHN BRUSH LTD.,
George Street, Sydney. [1
SHELL
NATURES
BEST
a
INEZ
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOR
MINING. MILLING, etc
INCLUDING
STEAM ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL BE POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO
THE SECRETARY
Box 229 G.P.0.,
MELBOURNE.
THE GENERAL MANAGER,
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
THE SECRETARY
Box 220 Q.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
it
Sfrojif €et/tes£we
off £fcm€<3a££z4
Don’t be dependent on train
or tram. Operate your own
private line. Get an
nOTOCYCLE
and start when you like, stop
when you like, and go where
you like.
LET US SEND YOU THE NEW INDIAN CATALOGUE.
In it pictured and described you will find all the New Indians —the
greatest motor-cycles the world has ever seen. There are models
for every rider —from the Light Twin masterpiece to the world-famous
Powerplus. There’s a model to meet just your requirements. Send
a postcard to-day.
MELBOURNE: Rhodes Motor-
Cycle Co. Pty., Ltd., 109-113
Russell Street.
SYDNEY: Milledge Bros., Ltd.,
156 Castlereagh Street.
BRISBANE: Canada Cycle and
Motor Agency, Ltd., Adelaide
and Creek Streets.
ADELAIDE: Eyes and Crowle
Ltd., 75-79 Pirie Street.
LAtNCESTON: John King &
Sons, Ltd., Charles Street.
PERTH: Armstrong Cycle &
Motor Agency, Hay Street.
DIAMONDS as NEW YEAR GIFT?.
No other Gift in the whole list of Valuable Things has such
Personal Appeal as a Diamond King.
K 23. —£12/10/-
K79.—£11/10/
■SI
KlOl3. —
and 3 Emeralds,
£lO/10/-
AT-.li OUR DIAMONDS
ARE SET IN
PIKE PLATINUM
AND 18ct. GOLD.
fe’Sfit
%||JF
K923.—£35.
sgaw*
C' '■%£&
K 73-1. — Diamond
and Emerald
Cluster, £55.
m
J1040.—£17/10/-
igggSiip
£lO/10/-
G93.—£10.
CALL AND INSPECT, or WRITE FOR OUR NEW CATALOGUE
OF USEFUL PRESENTS.
STEWART DAWSON’S,
LARGEST JEWELLERS OF THE EMPIRE,
STRAND CORNER* SYDNEY.
Make your Rowboat a
Motor-boat in a Minute.
Marine Engines
A
For All Boats
Callle 14 H. P. Aristocrat Motor
Is Electrically Started,
Electric Lights
CaiHe 8 H.P. Unit Power Plant
Reversing Gear on Same Baso as Enzina
CaiHe Five
Speed Row-
boat Motor
With Starter
Clamps to Any
Rowboat and
Drives Il7?ol9
Miles an Hour
The Caille Rowboat Motor
transforms the old rowboat into a
reliable, speedy motor-boat, in a
minute. it enables you to get
all pleasure from boating, and
takes you where you want to go
like a big motor-boat. It is
portable, and you can take it
where you like without effort.
Simply clamp it on the backboard
of your rowboat or hired boat and
off you go. The Caille is the most
perfect rowboat motor in the
world because it is dependable.
Write for interesting booklet
about the Caille and ask for
prices. Also in stock a full range
of Caille Marine Engines, from 2
to 30 h.p.
Benson Bros.
Ltd.
76-78 Liverpool Street, SYDNEY.
72-75 Queen’s Bridge Street,
SOUTH MELBOURNE.
138 Currie Street, ADELAIDE.
WEDDING PRESENTS.
DRUMMONDS’ offer a very choice and comprehensive selection
of useful articles in Gold, Silver and E.P., most tastefully
designed in newest patterns, and especially suitable for
Wedding Presents.
9b
■
Solid Silver Fruit Basket. Finest Manufacture,
£27/10/-
Ortlers by Mail receive the Firm’s prompt attention, and will be executed
as carefully and judiciously as though the purchase were made in
person.
SELECTIONS FORWARDED ON APPROVAL.
©rummonb & Co.
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.


a
o.
CRs
si!
I V
1
u
TS & COLLAR*
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
HA VF. you seen the latest
PE LA CO Poster f Look
for the cheerful 'nigger'
on the hoarding r, in his new, role
of Golfer. He is known all over
the Commonwea Hi, and is sym-
bolical of A ustralian-made
PELA CO Collars , Shirts , and
Pyjamas. That YOU will be
satisfied with the quality of
Pelaco garments goes without
saying.
Reliable Mercers sell them.
COLLARS
“THERE’S MONEY IN THE PEN.”
m
7Xr»l
The above
is the title
of our book-
let, which
tells about
the possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
by HARRY J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
difference between
learning to COPY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains, in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
penny stamps
to-day for a
copy of this
booklet—
“THEßE’S
MONEY
IN
THE
PEN.”
the harry j. weston
Postal -School of Drawing,
103 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY.
POWER BOOKS.
Business Power, £1 Is.
Power of Will, £1 Is.
Power for Success, £3 3s.
full particulars from
HAMILTON 8 CO., 34 Pitt Street, Sydney.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
•V*
a
Perfection
PiriK RUBBER
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
PELACO LIMITED.
Registered Office: GIPPS STREET, RICHMOND, VICTORIA.
Directors:
EDA\ ARD C. DYASON, Esq., Chairman.
GEORGE 11. DAY. Esq.
WILLIAM 11. CUMING, Esq
JAMES K. PEARSON, Esq.
JAMES L. G. LAW, Esq.
v ~ , DIRECTORS’ REPORT.
ber dir Di°riL th ?; r I , l ' eport and financial statement for the year ending 31st Decern-
very mo-ret P !’*iT* be , seen f !' 0m the Financial Statement, the business has made
the y previous vear Toward, T ! being found for the additional capital provided in
ordinary share? f M" a
"WS further f^lh^d^ S
Dividend on A preference shares for the half-year at the rate of 7‘per cent per annum £1 040 it 9
Dividend on B preference shares for the hUf-year at the rate of 9 per cent per annum" ’«43 \\ l
Dividend on ordinary shares for the half-year at the rate of 15 p-r re :t pm annum 3 009 o l
Write off plant, machinery, fixtures, fittings, motor-car .. 1 “ °
\\ rite on underwriting* expenses . . . . * * * ’ * * • • -t>voz i» 10
Leaving a balance to be carried forward of !! ", r off 8
•• •- • •• •• •• o,yodl 7 8
- as
W. BUCKLEY, Secretary.
E. C. DYASON. Chairman.
BALANCE-SHEET, Slit DECEMBER, 1918.
LIABILITIES.
To Authorised Capital—
-29.736 A prefer-
ence shares of
£1 each .. £29,736 0 0
60,000 B prefer
erne shares of
£1 each .. 50,000 0 0
340,528 ordinary
shares of 10,/-
each . . 170,284 0 0
£250,000 0 0
To Capital Subscribed and Paid Up—
-29,736 A prefer-
ence shares of
Cl each .. £29,736 0 0
50,000 B prefer-
ence shares paid
to 10/- each . . 25,000 0 0
80,000 ordinary
shares of 10/-
eacli .. .. 4 0,000 0 0
To the Union Bank of Australia Ltd.
To sundry creditors, including
amounts on deposit by share-
holders
To bills payable .. .. j j
To Profit and Loss Account—-
Balance, 31st. De-
cember, 1917 .. 1,206 6 0
Net profits, De-
cember, 1918 .. 15,131 2 6
£94,736 0 0
25.443 10 3
7,487 16 4
12,689 6 7
Less interim divi-
dend paid 18/7/’ 18
£16,337 8 6
3,603 5 2
12,734 3 4
£156,090 16 6
ASSETS. “
By stork on hand . . . . . . £78,259 14 2
Bv sundry debtors .. -.. .. 31,204 11 9
By ' Properties—
Factory premises £10,613 12 9
Goodwood Street,
Richmond . . 4,640 0 0
Granby House .. 1,200 0 0
_ 16,453 12 9
Less a m o u n t
owing on Granby
House .. . . 800 0 0
By plant and machinery . .
By goodwill
By underwriting expenses .. ..
By Sixth. War Loan
applied for ... 5,000 0 0
Less unpaid at
31/12/’lB . . 4,500 0 0
By motor-ear
By advertising matter and stationery
By petty cash in hand
£15,653 12 9
10,292 0 1
17,051 0 0
2,533 6 8
500 0 0
237 8 0
350 0 0
9 3 1
£156,090 16 6
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To salaries, directors’ fees, and
eral trading expenses
To balance
gcn-
.. £31, 206..7 8
.. 16,337 8 6
By balance, December 19177 7 £T2O6 —6~0
By .gross profits, December-, 1918 .. 46*337 10 2
£47,543 16 2
that, in our opinion, the before-me ll l kmedalanco V °hopt j' rcctors of Pclae , o Limited, do hereby certify
of the company’s affairs oelole mel,tlwied balance-sheet is drawn up so as to exhibit a correct account
J. li. PEARSOX.
J. L. G. LAW.
AUDITOR’S REPORT.
yearlnded^Declmber^UlVl^l^af^ thTinf °V he Pe | aco Com P a "y limited for the
and vhat, in my opinion, the balance-sheet is monerlv and explanations I have required,
of the state of the company’s affairs UP ’ - a1 ex | l . l^l^s a trae and correct view
me, and as shown by the books of the company fmy lnforma tion and the explanations given
Dated_at Melbourne this 6th day of February, 1919, A. CAPPER MOORE. F.C.P.A., Auditor.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BV
APPOINTMENT
TO
H-M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
PRICE 1/3 PER BOTTLE.
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Etc.
SCRUBS & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MEILBOURNE, VICTORIA.
%
All
Chemists,
two sizes.
SEASICK
GUARANTEED OR MONEY REFUNDED.
MOTHERSILL REMEDY CO. Ltd.,
Corner Clarence and Market
C 10
Streets, Sydney.
TROOPS
TRAVELLING OVER-SEAS SHOULD
AVOID DISCOMFORT FROM
SEA SICKNESS.
Mothersill's Seasick Remedy
is invaluable. It positively
Prevents and Cures Sea, Air,
and Train Sickness.
NO BAD AFTER EFFECTS.
IV/r OTOR SALESMEN.—There’s money in selling
- LVJ - cars provided you know your' proposition.
'ihe Dyke System of instruction teaches you to
master the science of motoring, the principles of
mechanism are fully explained by means of working
models; you learn the reasons for particular move-
ments and are taught how to convincingly talk
the merits of a particular motor. Write to-day
for Prospectus “M” to Jas. Rodger & Co., 159 E
Manchester Street, Christchurch, N.Z. [7
Used the
World Over
□
MOTOR
...CARS
GIBSON’S
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide.
High=class Residential Hotel.
Tariff: 13/- per day inclusive.
8/= per day Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped..
Name and address must appear on the MSS. ,No
liability is underwritten re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Ledger: Well, what’s wrong? As you
admit, when the Commonwealth took over the Post
Office, the N. S. Wales Government, in order to
carry on the Savings Bank business, set. up
an entirely new organisation, which was precisely
what this paper complained about. .. .Chin Strap:
You’ll see the matter has been dug into pretty
thoroughly. .. .Bedowie: Covered previously ; thanks.
. ...It.J.A.: Very well done; but a disappointing
finish. .. .Alan S.: “Bivouac” only just missed....
C.C.; Try again. . . .Epimachi s: (1), (2) and (3).
Yes. (4) He was struck off the roll (of solicitors),
not for defending a man whom he knew to be
guilty, but for trying to shift the blame to the
man’s wife, whom he knew to be innocent.... A.' S.:
An old idea which, though amusing, isn’t better
stated than before. ... V.C.V.: Yes; dry as dust....
L.C.: Get something new to write about, avoid worn
phrases, and then try us again.... F.J.H.: Doesn’t
strike us. ... G.T.M.R.: Not enough in it. .. . J.C.M.:
The girl and the copper are a bit too violent....
J.A.W.: No. .. . Twyford : Very bad. .. . Pcrcykins:
Not up....M.8.: A “fork”-“talk” rhyme at the
very start!... .P.P.: “The Fear” is too obvious...-.
E.R.: The butterflies can’t flutter here.. . .L.P.J.:
“Lost Souls” has an impossible rhyme scheme....
Erin: S"orry; it misses. Try us again.... N.R.:
No use to u5....0.8.: “Australia To-day” is a
heart-thrilling picture:—
Now judging by excursion fares,
People hurry scurry here and there;
To see them rush the trains and tear—-
Like kangaroo dogs chasing a hare.
Young men, old men and maidens fair,
Off to the races to back the flying mare;
The money that goes on ’tvvould make you stare.
For one would think we’d never be bare.
With wives and their families we’ll attend,
To back their favorite as well as their friends;
For Ostend’s wife she s just put on two tens,
And goodness knows where she will end.
Next day you will often hear some say,
I wish 1 had the money I had yesterday;
For I have nothing now till next pay,
So better luck some other day.
The business men now have to' wait,
For weeks before they can get straight ;
The rent collector hops along thinking he was late,
Only to add another month on to the slate.
.. . .8.M.M.: Misses. . . .Hubby: Nothing there at all.
. ...J.A.H.: Not for us. Don’t know of any other
paper. . . .F.J.C.: “Saturday” isn’t convincing. .. .
S.D.: “Regret” not up to the mark. . . .A.F.:
“Thelma” doesn’t score E.C.: Nice child work,
but not printable N.A.E.: It misses F. 8.:
“Spring,” “Summer,” “Autumn” and “Winter” are
all equally commonplace. Anybody could write
that sort of stuff... .H.S.: Not nearly good enough.
. ...P.S.W.: We read “Christmas Pig’’ in spite of
the absence of ink ; and it wasn’t worth the effort.
.... E.M.M.: No use. . . .Choom : Not exciting. .. .
C.J.C.: Not for us... . Woolmer Gattey: It’s not a
pleasing refrain. Sounds too much like bubbling
soapsuds.... Duke: Rather commonplace. You can
do better than that. . . .R.S.Y.S.: Write so that your
copy can be read ; and finish your work. You can’t
score by slopping in long, careless screeds J. 11.:
“Returning” is no use. . For Heaven’s sake buy
some ink. You’ve been watering that same old pot
for three years II.B.: The “Sonnet” is. heavy,
dull and preachy Morbidicus: No Yarrum :
“Mountain Dew” doesn’t work M.A.S.K.: Awful
thing. Why don’t you find out the meanings of
words you use ? Also, there’s ail advantage in hav-
ing an idea or two to start with... .M.F.: Horrible.
. ...A.S.: “The Night Rider” is mostly about
nothing... .A.C.S.: Last stanza spoils it....5.L.: A
bit of fine, close observation :
The Kaiser now is very sad.
All his visions have gone to the bad ;
He paces his prison mansion deep in despair
And wildly pulls his greying hair;
His lean and bone.y frame shuffles by.
The spirits of the thousand slain at" him cry.
“Mein Gott in Himmel! I vish I vere dead!”—■
And he moans upon his bed.
Gone is now his gieit imperial might,
And he wants to hide his head from the light.
And thus are the mighty fallen low,
The Kaiser never will get over the blow!
J.B.: Very poor stuff ’Arriet: Read the paper
and see what we publish; then you won’t send us
that sort of thing. .. .M.R.D.: Far below standard.
.. . . J.R.: Doesn’t win the distinction of being quoted
as an awful example N.T.: Little merit in it.
•• • • L.: The verse makes our head ache and our
heart bleed. How do you do it?
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Lou F.: It’s all wrong Scotty: False alarm
Gecko: Go and watch that octopus again. ... J.A.:
Worse than the heat-wave F.G.J.: No market for
that brand of humor here. .. .R.W.McH.: We don't
want them.... R.U.: ITnsuitable.... R.P.8.: Thanks
for cow diagram; but we can’t drive the old girl
into the paper... .R.C.W.: Impossible remarks made
by improbable people Teanong: Wheeled into the
office tomb, openwork stockings and a 11... . Enid G.:
You’re only experimenting yet. Study 0n... .H.D.:
Feeble beginning 1.G.H.: You know next to
nothing about drawing D.L.M.: The fat man
isn’t looking at the child. If he was he would see
that her neck is too thick Beanstalk: Cow-
costume idea noted and passed to fashion expert....
A.C.D.Mc.: The teller has a demon’s ear. Don’t
do it again. .. .F.W.P.: Fire might improve it....
E.W.J.: When your people are not sad they are
angry Tucker: The Art Chucker-Out hasn’t
sighted the poem, but the illustrations for it have
just skidded out the side door R.E.H.: The fat
giantess doesn’t look more alluring than the one
with the bare face J.P.J.: Don’t like them
A.G.R.: Waste of time coloring. Try to improve
your drawing T.R.: Too rough.
‘Norseman”: The night being a corker, the
M.C. sang out that any gent might remove
his coat —not that many had waited for
formal permission. One bloke, seeing the
last few coats peeling off, muttered, “Cripes!
If I’d known this I’d have put a shirt on !”
“Gustavus Gravelpit”: A returned Bill-
Jim, originally a bricklayer’s laborer, took
on a job as a diver- —the deepsea variety.
After his first descent —inspecting a defect
m a ship’s propeller—he came to the sur-
face, rattled. ‘‘Take these darned things off
me, he said as soon as the front of his
helmet was unscrewed. “Give me a blanky
job where a bloke can spit on his hands.”


Stop Torturing
Toothache Quickly.
Stopain Toothache Gum
Instantly Ends The Ache
And Helps Save The Tooth.
Don’t put up with toothache a minute. You
don’t have to. Just put a little piece of Stopain
Toothache Gum in the cavity, or around the
tooth and all pain is gone as if by magic.
Let STOPAIN Stop That Boring Pain.
It fills up the cavity, excluding the air, and
stopping the mouth acids from acting on the
frantic, jumping nerve; hardens quickly, and
forms a serviceable filling that will last for a
long time—until you are ready to have a per-
manent filling put in.
Why punish yourself ? Why endure the
agony of toothache when a shilling box of
Stopain Toothache Gum will quickly restore
your peace of mind ?
Keep it on hand for emergencies.
Stopain Toothache Gum is sold by most
medicine vendors at a shilling a box, or sent
direct upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
520-528 Riley Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Drives Away
Corns Quickly.
At last a real ‘ does what it says ’ Corn Cure;
nothing like it or just -s good lias ever been
known.
Every man or woman, who has corns, warts
or bunions ought to try Handy Corn Cure at
once and see how marvellously it works. Quit
shaving your corn with a razor. You may draw
blood and cause blood-poisoning.
mi
Handy Corn Cure will get rid of every corn
you have got without pain or disco mfoit.
Handy Corn Cure is remarkable because it
never irritates or turns the true flesh sore or
raw. It can’t—it’s that antiseptic, safe and
harmless. The corn shrivels up and comes out.
1/- Per Box everywhere. Posted free by
Sunset Drug Co., 520-528 Riley-st., Sydney.
Legal Notices.
tN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA.
J- IN EQUITY.
Stamp Duty, Tasmania, 5/-
IN THE MATTER of two pieces of land containing
respectively 48 acres and 12 perches and 48 acres
and 21 perches situate in the Parish of # Preolenna
in Tasmania and comprised in purchase grants regis-
tered respectively Volume CVI. Folio 125 and
Volume CVI. Folio 124 in the name of ELLEN
MARTHA GOUDA the wife of PAUL FRANCIS
GOUDA of Upper Calder in Tasmania, Mail Con-
tractor
and
IN THE MATTER of- “The Married Woman’s
Property Act.’’
Let the above-named Ellen Martha Gouda her
Solicitors or Agent attend me at the Practice Court
Launceston on the seventeenth day of March 1919
at the hour of 10.30 of the clock in the forenoon
upon the hearing of an application by the above-named
Paul Francis Gouda for an order declaring that the
above-mentioned pieces of land standing upon the
Register of The Lands Titles Office of Tasmania in
the name of the abov.e-named Ellen Martha Gouda are
the property of the Applicant and for a further order
that the above-named Ellen Martha Gouda do execute
a Transfer or Transfers thereof to the Applicant and
in default thereof that the Recorder of Titles be
appointed to execute the said Transfer or Transfers
in the place of the above-named Ellen Martha Gouda
and for such other Order as may be necessary or
proper under the circumstances and for an Order
that the above-named Ellen Martha Gouda do pay the
taxed costs of the Applicant of and incidental to this
application.
Dated this 9th day of January 1919.
NORMAN K. EWING, J.
This summons was taken out by Messrs. Shields
and Heritage. Launceston, Agents for Messrs. J. W.
and Leslie Hudson, of Wvnyard and Burnie, Solici-
tors for the above-named Paul Francis Gouda.
To the above-named Ellen Martha Gouda.
Note. —If you do not attend either in person or by
your Solicitors at the time and place above-men-
tioned such order will be made and proceedings taken
as the Judge may think just and expedient.
For our sick and wounded
BOYS. —When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Red Cross Book
Depot, Wynyard Street, Sydney.
f(S<7
70
THERE'
T
10
Right there is your most important life organ—the breeding place for
germs of dangerous diseases, which, if neglected, may rum your whole future life.
At the least pain or sign of any disorder of your digestive organs, make
up your mind quickly and ward off dangerous consequences by taking
Chamberlain’s Tablets for the stomach and liver.
The first dose will give relief, aid digestion, drive away the cause of
your pain, cleanse your bowels, and their continued use will restore you to
perfect health.
No matter how strong and healihy your digestive organs may be, there
are times when they need help.
So it is well to remember there is no better medicine made for Indiges-
tion, Biliousness, Constipation, or any disorder of the stomach and liver than
CIUMBE
Jor the Stomach o Liver
Diarrhoea.
Diarrhoea attacks all ages, and is equally
fatal to young and old. The great danger in
this disease is due to the frequent lack of
proper treatment in the first stages. Chamber-
lain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy is a reliable
and effective medicine, and if given in time
will prevent serious results. It never fails, and
is pleasant to take. Every household should
have a bottle on hand. Get it today. Cham-
berlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy taken at
the first unusual looseness of the bowels will
save suffering and anxiety—and loss of both
ime and money.
Take It With You.
The importance of having a bottle of Cham-
berlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy with
them is realised by experienced travellers, as
this medicine cannot be bought on the train or
steamship. Change of water and diet often
deranges tLe stomach and bowels and produces
diarrhoea. As Chamberlain’s Colic and
Diarrhoea Remedy is the most reliable medicine
in use for these ailments, care should be taken
to have a bottle always on hand. Attacks of
bowel trouble nearly always come on suddenly
ana when 'his remedy is at hand all danger
xmay be avoided.
Tie Firm.
When you ask for a bottle of Chamberlain’s
Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy, do not be per-
suaded to take anything else. Be firm in your
conviction that there is nothing so good. This
medicine has been tested in the most severe
cases of cramp, colic, dysentery and diarrhoea,
and has never been known to fail. “ Can be
depended upon” is an expression always used
in connection with Chamberlain’s Colic and
Diarrhoea Remedy. One bottle goes a long
way towards relieving suffering humanity. It
1, ever fails to give immediate and permanent
relief.
SPECIAL OPPORTUNITY
p()If energetic sales manager to secure exclusive
P selling rights for wonderful new Adding Machine.
Retails £2 —does work of £6O machine. Auto-
matically adds, subtracts, multiplies and divides.
Whirlwind in speed. Infallibly accurate. Written
Five-Year Guarantee. Extraordinary opportunity
to establish permanent business with unusual profits.
Write or cable for full particulars.
CALCULATOR CORPORATION,
Grand Rapids (Mich.), U.S.A.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since 15H6. CURES Write for Bools
AUSTRALIAN LiLIGHT, FALI.INC EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
Sr GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road. London, England
Insist on “Singleton’s”—refuse all substitutes.
UMC
Arms and Ammunition
Used throughout the
world by leading sports-
men. Sold by ironmongers
and sporting goods dealers
everywhere.
wnwm
B _ a s^° ac _ a3 -“außaoßajS-^
o
.uvm
GAPILLARINE
Crows
Moustaches
Quickly!
Hundreds who have used it testify to its
genuineness and efficacy as a moustache-
grower. Rub it well into the roots, and note
its quick results. Send for a Jar to-day.
PRICE 10/6 JAR —POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made ' and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
AVoy, N.S.AV., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/3 per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.


“The Lamb”: A bit of the spirit of the
A.I.F. Two transports reached Sierra Leone
within a few days of each other, not long
before the armistice. They had aboard
troops belonging to some of the last batches
to leave Aussie, all keen and very youthful.
The troopers, ex-German cargo carriers with
iron decks, were the last word in discomfort.
Epidemic broke out on both, and practically
every man went down. Before long the lads
began to go out and the death-roll when
Freetown was reached was sadly long. As
our transport passed the other, joining con-
voy, one of our Diggers raised a weak voice:
“Give the poor blankers a cheer!” Cheers
rippled along our sides and swelled into a
rear. When they stopped, we found that the
other boys were cheering us poor blankers
just as madly. And together we made the
sick bay ring with the good old doggerel of
“Australia Will Be There.”
For Sale.
pOR SALE.—First-class Bucket Dredge,
* in full working order, as follows: —
BOILER. —Internal Fired Return Tube Boiler, 14
feet long by Cft. 6in. diameter; Boiler Tubes are
34in. diameter by about 14ft. long; Flue is 42in.
diameter ; original working pressure 1401 b. per square
inch.
MAINE ENGlNE.—Tandem Compound Engine,
built by Ohas. Ruwolt Ptjn Ltd., with high-pressure
cylinder, Bin. diameter, and low-pressure cylinder
16in. diameter bv 16in. stroke.
PUMPING ENGINES AND PUMP.—The pumping
engine is a Tandem Compound, built by Chas. Ruwolt
Pty. Ltd. High-pressure cylinder 7 Jin. diameter,
and low-pressure 15in. diameter by 16in. stroke.
This engine belt drives the main pump, which is
15in. “Michel” design of pump, to work against a
total head of about 25 to 30 feet.
GEARING. —The Crown Wheel is a double-shrouded
cast steel, pitch circle 971 in. diameter, number of
teeth 102, pitch 3in., width of teeth lOin. Friction
Wheel, double-shrouded cast steel, pitch circle
75iin. diameter, number of teeth uo, pitch 21in.,
width of teeth Tin.
BUCKETS.—Six cubic-feet close-connected built-
up type.
LADDER. —About 70 feet long centres.
PONTOONS.—The Pontoons are STEEL, with
steel superstructure, the pontoons being 98 feet long
by about 331 feet wide and 7 feet deep.
Further particulars from
P. W. TEWKSBURY,
4l Collins Street, Melbourne.
Missing Friends.
AMELIA GILLESPIE, last heard of
about 1889, then about to get married.
Brother inquires. Information Bulletin
Office.
Public Notice.
SOLDIERS’ DIARIES.
THE Mitchell Library is desirous of pur-
chasing for the State Archives original
diaries of Australian Soldiers taking part
in the Great War. Good prices will be
paid for good material. Address Mitchell
Library, Macquarie Street, Sydney.
For the Trustees,
W. 11. IFOULD,
Principal Librarian and Secretary.
run
iliii
/W/M
VI
MW U*
W/YW
0.
Mm
y/ /)M
/•;'///.' / r/
Hr
//• (/ \
' * L\
A HUNT Hat
becoming to men
of every type.
It will gain the approval of
men who select critically.
A Hat that meets the usual
requirements in an unusual
manner.
Shown in the newest shades
for present wear.
R. Hunt 8 Co.
314 George Street,
Sydney.
; tl
jr
LJ LZJ
ill
11
\\
n
The White that
Withstands Weather!
When you use White paint it is well
to make sure you get a good paint
that will not need frequent renewal.
SHERWIN-WILLIAMS WHITE is the “right
White ” —best for every surface, inside and
outside.
Famous among SHERWIN-WILLIAMS WHITE
PAINTS is the “ Outside Gloss ” —the most durable
and economical for use on all exposed surfaces.
The best understanding of paint requirements—the best
technical and practical knowledge in the field to=day—
ensures the uniform excellence of
PREPARED .
THE SHERWIN-WILUAMS CO. (Aust.) LTD.
Head Office, 63 Pitt St., Sydney. Agents everywhere
ROYAL AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY OF N.S.W.
ROYAL JUBILEE, SHOW
MOORE. PARK, SYDNEY.
£ll,OOO PRIZES £ll,OOO.
PRIZE SCHEDULES and Entry Forms on application.
H. M. SOMER. Secretary,
Ocean House, Moore Street, Sydney.
SAVOY HOTEL,
Hay Street, Perth, West Australia.
PERTH’S LEADING HOTEL.
Recommended to Visitors from Eastern States.
Tariff: £4/4/“ per weeß, 12/0 per day.
J. M. QUIGLEY, Manager.
AWAKENING IN THE SEMI-L'CHT
one naturally looks to see the time by the clock.
Blinds down, semi-darlc, the dial appears blurred
and indistinct.
We prevent all this by the introduction of
LUMINOUS Dials on our folding leather bedroom
clocks.
The darker the room the more clearly is the
time seen by them.
Though they are not expensive, the movements are
J-plate levers, fully jewelled, accurate and strong,
and are guaranteed for 15 years.
They are made to go 36 hours and 8 days, and
vary in perfection of workmanship up to the finest
possible.
For travel or back-country use nothing is more
useful.
MS
m bk
8-Dav Lever Watch Clock, in leather fold-
ing case, as illustrated, with luminous dial,
£5/5/-
£ame clock, to go for SO hours, £4/10/-
Plain Figures.
.Cash only.
Fairfax 8 Roberts Lto.,
...o oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 and 25 Hunter Street.
One Hundred and Forty=first Half=yearly Report
of
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OE SYDNEY LIMITED.
Presented to the Shareholders at an Ordinary General Meeting held at the Head Banking House, George
Street, Sydney, on Friday, 2ith January, 1919.
The Directors submit to the Shareholders a Balance Sheet showing the Liabilities and Assets
of the Bank on the 31st December, 1918, and present the following Report:—
The balance at credit of Profit and Loss, after adding the amount brought forward, and deducting
rebate on current bills ' and accrued interest on fixed deposits, reducing premises account, paying
Land, Income and other taxes, and providing for bad and doubtful dents, as well as granting to
the officers a bonus on their salaries, amounts. to * • • • • • • ■ • • • • £206,11/ 0 2
out of which the Directors recommend the following appropriations:— /
To payment of a dividend for the half-year at the rate of 10 per
cent, per annum out of the half-year s profits .. .. £lOO,OOO 0 0
~ Transfer to Reserve Fund .. .• •• •• •• 40,000 0 0
~ Balance carried forward .. .. • • • ■ • • • • 66,117 0 2
£206,117 0 2
The Directors record with feelings of deep regret the death, on the 19th inst., of their late colleague,
Mr. Thomas Forster Knox, who for the past four years was a member of the Board.
The dividend is now payable. GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman.
Dr.
LIABILITIES AND ASSETS.
(INCLUDING LONDON BRANCH TO 31st DECEMBER, BY CABLE.)
Ck.
Capital.. ..£2,000,000 0 0
Reserve fund .. 2,040,000 0 0
Reserve capital.. 2,000,000 0 0
£6,04.0,000 0 0
To Capita] paid-
up . . . . £2,000,000 0 0
„ Reserve fund 2,040,000 0 0
—£4,040,000 0 0
~ Notes in circulation . . .. 11,403 0 0
~ Bills in circulation . . . . 1,607,208 16 1
„ Deposits and other liabilities.. 27,154,438 7 7
„ Profit and Loss Account .. 206,117 0 2
£33,019,167 3 10
By Coin, bullion,
A ustralian
Com mon-
wealth notes
and cash
at bankers £6,518,041 2 2
~ Money , at
short call
in London 1,335,000 0 0
~ Short - dated
Brit i a h
T r casury
bills . . 220,000 0 0
~ British and
A ustralian
War Loan
stocks and
Government,
munic i p al
and other
securities. . 4,304,000 0 0
„ Bills receiv-
able in
London and
remittances
in transit 2,245,051 12 0
„ Notes an d
bills of other
banks . . 26,121 11 10
£14,648,214 6 0
„ Wheat advances under Govern-
ment scheme.. .. .. 681,452 7 5
~ Commonwealth War Loan Ad-
vances. . 1,966,719 0 2
„ Bills discounted and other
debts due to the bank .. 15,115,156 10 3
„ Bank premises, furniture, etc. 607,625 0 0
£33,019,167 3 10
PROFIT AND LOSS.
To Dividend account for payment of
dividend for past half-year at
the rate of 10 per cent, per
annum out of the half-year’s
profits
„ Reserve fund
„ Balance carried forward
£lOO.OOO 0 0
40,000 0 0
66,117 0 2
£203,117 0 2
By Amount from last half-year . . £57,243 111
„ Profit for half-year ended 31st
December, 1918 . . . . 148,873 18 3
£206,117 0 2
RESERVE FUND.
1918 —December 31 .. .. .. .. ..£2,040,000 0 0
By Transfer from profit and loss .. .. .. 40;000 0 0
£2,040,000 0 0
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman.
1. H. MASS'IE, General Manager.
P. J. L. DUNLOP, Accountant.
Sydney, 16th January, 1919.
We hereby certify that we have examined the bills, compared the balance? and counted the coin in
the Head Office of the Commercial Banking Company of Sydney, Limited, and have compared the returns
of the Branches, and have found the same as specified in the foregoing balance-sheet.
W. L. DOCKER I . u(Jitors
J. J. BRENAN j Audltors -
The following resolutions were carried unanimously:—
“That the leport and statements of account be received and adopted, and ordered to be circulated
■ among the shareholders.”
“That the thanks of the shareholders be presented to the directors, general manager and officers
of the bank for their very satisfactory managcipent of the affairs of the institution.”
H. H. MASSIE, General Manager.


DEFORE USING CUTICURA
\
AFTER USING CUTICURA
and Ointment
Quickly soothe and heal
eczemas, rashes, itchings
and burnings of the skin.
Soap to cleanse and Ointment to heal.
"R. Towns & Co., Sydney. N. S. W ” Sold
by dealers throughout the world.
CHRISTIE^
SP£CIALJ3£
£/A/£S
$
KIR? 5
dP
WQiTE
FOR
CATALOGUE
p.rJO
PATTERNS 0 /
MATERIALS
TO
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
520 GEORGES 1- SYDNEY
Zc MOMTKfi ST NEWCASTLE
ELEY
CARTRIDGES
Always Reliable
‘ELEY Smokeless’
A Cerise Cartridge
loaded with Eley
42-grain Smoke-
less Powder and
]£ oz. shot.
Millions sold
annually.
m
m
m
ft
m
m
m
m
&
3%
m
m
&
<
m
Ju
m
m.
m
ELEY
E.B. 'Nitre*’
Cartridge Case
loaded with
Schultze or any
other Standard
Smokeless Powder.
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only .*
ELEY BROS. L» LONDON
BALL
BEARINGS
The factory engineer who installs S.K.F.
Self-Aligning Ball Bearings throughout
his plant has done the utmost towards
reaching highest efficiency with maximum
economy, for- S.K.F.’s save from 50% to
100% of their value yearly.
Slv F. Ball Bearings are made from Swedish
Crucible Steel, are accurately finished and uniformly
hard throughout.
S.K.F. Bearings do NOT become hot,
hence they prevent loss of power due to ex-
cessive friction. They assure smooth, free
running, saving of power, saving of belts and
supreme durability.
Specify S.K.F.. Bearings (the World’s
best) for every part of your plant that
needs bearings.
GARDNER,
W£RN
& GO.,
Power and Light
Engineers.
MELBOURNE
384 City Road
Showrooms—
-369 Flinders Street
SYDNEY-
-225 Clarence Street
BRISBANE-
-367 Queen Street
SKF
A
ass.a
“I’ve Struck it—
The Real Thing in Razors. Gets through the job
in a quarter the time, and makes the business a
pleasure. The ‘PLUM’S’ the Razor for me.”
the: “PLUM” RAZOR.
PRICE. 10/6—POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
The above makes a handsome present.
All the above Post Free. Send for our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
Tried and Trusted—
The “PLUM
Razor.
»»
nl l assn
MOLDJKI®
mum
Ir [L>©m)Ow
FDOJL
PhoneS
A Federal Lorry Works 24 Hours a Day
Horses must rest. Men must rest. But with
a change of drivers a lorry will work 24 hours
a day every day in the year.
Federals are the most preferred lorry because
of their capacity for sustained service at low cost.
1 to 5 tons
Capacities.
1 Ton, $l9OO
\y 2 Ton, $2350
2 Ton, $2600
3}4 Ton, $3350
5 Ton, $4400
Write for the magazine “Traffic News,” sent free.
Also full price list and discounts.
FEDERAL MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY
Factory—Detroit, Mich., U.S.A. Foreign Department—lB Broadway, New York.
[4
• HAVb REGARD TO YOUR
BEST INTERESTS BY APPOINTING
The Permanent Trustee Company
of South Wales Ltd.
Exesia tors, Trustees, Administrator's, Agents, etc.
AM PL 10 SECURITY ASSURED. TRUST ACCOUNTS ALWAYS OPEN TO INSPECTION.
ESTATES AND PROPERTIES EFFICIENTLY MANAGED.
EVERY DESCRIPTION of TRUSTEE WOIJK UNDERTAKEN. FULU DERAILS ON APPLICATION.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. A..PEECEIfAL BEDFORD, Manager. [1
Business, Bobbery, etc.
“Ritasun”: One of the perils of buying
stock to sell at a profit is in the count.
Buyers new to the game should beware of
one trick. The seller and buyer arrange to
take the count together. The sheep are run
through. “Well, what do you make it?”
asks the wily seller. “All correct,” says the
buyer; “I make it 500.” “I make it 520,”
says the confidence man cheerily, “and I
think you’ll find that correct.” The buyer
hesitates and is lost. “Oh, well,” says the
seller breezily, “let us split the difference
and say 510 —it would be a pity to re-pad-
dock and re-count them again.” The fool-
buyer falls and pays for 10 sheep more than
he gets.
* * * *
“G. 8.” : It was claimed lately that Clem
Tank had put up a S. Australian record by
sewing 515 bags of wheat in a day. Really
Clement is a loiterer at needlework com-
pared with T. Daniel Cash. This young
man sewed 620 bags of wheat as they were
turned out from a motor-winnower at Kalka
station on February 5, 1912, and each bag
was well dumped three times. In 1910 Cash
contended that he could do a bag a minute,
and to prove the argument he completed 17
bags in 15 minutes. The young man is
now a student at Melbourne Uni., but he
comes home for vacation, and, although out
of practice and with soft hands, this season
he managed 250 bags between midday and
sunset.
* * * *
“Chloride”: If “Quidam” (B. 23/l/’l9)
has a prospect of getting “a funeral of the
plainest description” at a cost of £B, or
one with frills at £lO, then he may con-
gratulate himself that he is not awaiting
the Reaper in Broken Hill, where a “plain”
funeral costs £l4, or thereabouts, and a
frilled one £2O or more. It is remarkable
that, although there is much comment and
grumbling privately on the high cost of
dying, no one makes any public protest. On
the contrary, the ’taker is frequently thanked
through the press for “the highly satisfac-
tory way in which he carried out the funeral
arrangements.” Grief-stricken people can’t
haggle or see their grasping cemetery M.C.
in proper perspective. So he is publicly
thanked when he only deserves to be scorned.
How many families in mourning could tell
a tale of privations endured and sacrifices
made after Death has opened the door to
the profiteer in rusty black!
* * * *
“Norbell”: S. M. Herald’s “Positions
Vacant” column gets racier every day. I’m
familiar with “Wanted Girls for Pressing,”
and that sort of thing, but “Wanted Naked
Suitcase Hands” was new to me till last
week.
**. \ * *
The old Napoleon Hotel, in Adelaide, is
to be rebuilt. Right alongside the Royal
Exchange, it was the great meeting-place for
sharebrokers before they built themselves a
new Exchange, _ with club-house attached;
and it saw stirring times during the Broken
Hill and Kalgoorlie booms. The land has
great depth, though a narrow frontage, and
the new building is to go up five storeys—-
which is colossal in Adelaide. One conse-
quence of the alterations will be the de-
struction of. a well-known vine—said to be
the largest in Adelaide-—which mysteriously
gets nourishment from ithe tar-paving in the
Napoleon Lane, and consistently produces
grape-clusters round tlie\ bedroom windows.
STEWARDS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They tol’ me the screw was nixie, but swore that
the tips was great,
An’ I ’adn’t a feather to fly with, so that s why
I signed the slate.
I’m washin’ the cups an’ the dishes, I’m emptyin
slops from pails,
An’ carry in’ strawberry boxes round whenever I
’ears the wails
Of bodies an’ souls in torment, of souls an’ bodies
in pain,
An’ the more they groans I feel in my bones it s
goin’ to be my gain.
I’m keepin’ my weather eye open, no chances I’m
out to miss.
It’s worth a quid to shut your lid when you barge
into a kiss
Up in the boat-deck’s shadows dark on your way
to the mate
With ’is tray o’ biscuits an’ cocoa ’ot —watch me
drop a plate!
I gets ’im another trayfull, ’im cursin’ me ’ot
and strong.
But what’s ’is lip to a ’andsome tip, earned as I
come erlong ?
It isn’t all beer an’ skittles. It isn’t all “Thank
you, Sir.”
There’s times when a bloke ’e gets the ’ump with
each blinkin’ passenger.
But the job’s to keep on smilin’, an’ pass the plates
erlong,
Though everything in ’eaven an’ ’ell is goin’ all
flamin’ wrong:
The purser’s scowlin’ an’ snortin’, the ’ead ’e
’as got the pip—
Well, the only thing to do in the circs is stiffen
your upper lip.
It’s easy layin’ the tables with every porthole
wide,
An’ the silver-plate an’ the crockery doin’ a graceful
slide.
I serves the soup an’ ontray, an’ ’ands ’em a cut
o’ the roast
To the old tub’s feel of an even keel, slidin’ erlong
the coast.
Puddin’, an fruit, an’ coffee. My oath! They do
them well.
An’ it’s “Steward, a toppin’ dinner, what?” I
crooks me ’and. Well, well!
I tidies -their cabins an’ bathrooms; I sees their
chairs is right,
An’ follers ’em into the smokeroom’s peace to ’and
’em their last “Good night.”
After the lights is switched off I’m free for an
hour or two,
But you’ve got to be up with the mornin's light
to get what’s cornin’ to you.
Once the voyage is over an’ the luggage is up from
the ’old,
It’s then that you know before they go your job
’as been worth the gold.
N.S.W.
E. J. HILL.


t
A master achievement!
All the perfection of voice,
with its timbre and sweet-
ness uumarred, is translated
from the living- artist across
the seas, right into your own
drawing-room. There, at
your convenience as your
fancy wills, you can hear
the world’s famous singers
render again and again their
matchless performance.
No lover of real music
should ' be without The
NEW EDISON.
Write for full details, post
free.
MADAME MARIE RAPFOLD,
Prima donna.
Famous soprano of the Metropolitan
Opera Company, who has proved by
actual demonstration before large audi-
ences the life-like perfection of the
Edison “re-creation” of her voice.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
For your Infant or Invalid
Benger’s Food is appetising and delicious. Even the fresh new
milk used to prepare it is made lighter and easier to digest!
In the tin one food may look like another, but there the
resemblance of any/other food to Benger’s ends. You prepare
Food
in a way different from others ! Fresh new milk is always
used, and in a few minutes (see directions) both the Food and
the milk become blended into a dainty cream by a gentle first
process of digestion, self-contained in the Food.
To this, and to its great nutritive power, Benger’s owes its
unique position as “ the Food the Doctor orders
Benger’s Food is entirely British origin, ownership, and manufacture. It is sold in tins
by Chemists, etc., everywhere. Carefully follow the directions on the tin when preparing it.
Booklet and full particulars post free from :
BENGER’S FOOD, LTD., MANCHESTER, England
BRANCH OFFICE: 117- Pitt Street, SYDNEY
And at New York (U.S,A.) 90, Beekman St. % Dep6ts throughout Canada.
225 A
—
CRICKET
SEASON 1919.
Our stock comprises everything
% for the Game. Now showing a
fine range of materials by the
world’s leading makers.
For full particulars of Cricket and all indoor
and outdoor Sporting Materials see a copy of
our new edition Sportsman’s Guide. Post
free to any address.
Smoke SUNOL
Sample 2oz. Packet
1/2 Post Free.
MEN’S BATS.
M.S., Haymarket Driver, double rubber
M.S., Haymarket Driver, Spec. Selected
Ayres’ International, 30 /-t' lmproved..
Ayres’ International Improved Selected..
C. G. Macartney Autograph
City & Suburban Sport Co., 18/0. 21 /■
(C.S. Sport Co.’s bats are specially faced
for Australian wickets, and require no
preparation before using.).
Clapshaw’s Spiral Spring . .'
Dye’s Champion, 17/0; Selected
Dye’s Champion, specially ....
Shaw and Shrewsbury’s A 1
Spalding’s London Club
Spalding’s County Special
Spalding’s Hayward Record
Stuart, Surridge Oval Driver
Summers Brown Patent Spoon
Syke’s Yorkshire Driver . . .
Warsop’s Conqueror
Each.
22/0
25/-
32/-
85/-
35/-
25/-
28/6
20/-
22/6
25/
25/
30/
35/
20/
35/
30/
30/
Bats, retail from 21/-, are guaranteed.
MEN’S STUMPS.
Set of 6.
Blackwood, very strong, plain 3/6
Brass Top, steel shod, ash 7 /Q
Half Solid Brass Top, steel shod 9/.
Solid Brass Top, steel shod, ash 10 /-
Revolving Top, steel shod, ash 12/6
CRICKET BALLS.
All Match Weights, viz., sjoz.
Eclipse Compo., 3/6; Eclipse Victory..
C. 8.8. Compo
Haymarket Compo
Diamond Compo
Nicholson’s
Each.
4/-
1/6
2/6
3/6
5/6
FULL-SIZE CRICKET MATS.
(GREEN).
Made from Best Material.
In two pieces, for double wicket, 6ft. wide.
Leather-bound, slightly damaged .. £5/10/-
MEN’S BATTING GLOVES.
Pair.
Featherweight, felt protection 4/9
White Kid, Gold, cape points, hair-stuffed 8/6
Superior, ex. stout tubular rubber 10/6
Surry Shields, R. or L. Hand 0/6
MEN’S GAUNTLETS.
Ventilated, very strong
All England, rubber palms, padded tips
Celebrated Lilley, padded tips
M.S. Special, rubber palms
The Giant Special
MEN’S LEG GUARDS.
* Pair.
White Drill, strong 7/0
Tan, continuous straps, good club guard 10/6
Tan, continuous straps, ventilated 13/6
Gold Cape, cont. straps, superior 12/9
Half Skfleton, Gold Cape, new pattern.. 15/6
Half Skeleton, White Buck 17/6
Best Skeleton, Gold Cape 17/6
Best Skeleton, White Buck 20/-
Gold Cape, ex. quality for wicketkeepers.. 17/6
Pair.
8/6
17/6
21/-
25/-
32/6
CRICKET SUNDRIES.
Abdominal Pads 3/., 10/6 each
Bat Covers, waterproof canvas.... 4/6 each
Bat Oil specially prepared 1/6 bottle
Canvas Boots, welted soles 12/6 pair
Club Kit Bags 17/6 each
Cricket Belts, two straps 1/3 each
Cricket Nets 50/-, 60/-each
Gripolene, gauntlet solution 1/6 bottle
Handle Rubbers ... 1/., 1 /3, 1/6, 1/9 each
Scoring Books, full size .. 1/., 1/6, 2/-each
Scoring Books, pocket size, 6d-, 1/-, 1/3 each
Bats of all kinds Repaired.
i
>
\
N
TENNIS
WE HAVE LONG BEEN RECOGNISED AS THE'LEAD-
ING SUPPLIERS OF REQUISITES FOR TIIE GAME.
RACKETS.
M.S. Handicap q/_
M.S: Standard 10 /Q
M.S. Champion 12/6
Hay market 22/6
Haymarket Special, 27/6.37/6
Hay market Selected... 40/-
„ Ex. Spec., 42/6. 55/-
Spalding Greenwood .. 16/9
Spalding Vantage .... 26/-
(Postage on Racket —N.S.W., 9d ; other States, 1/2.)
BALLS.
Each. Doz.
Grey Regulation 1/- 10/-
Challenge, covered 1/S 15/-
Each. Doz.
Spalding’s Champ. 2/2 25/-
Tournament .. 1/9 21/-
Ayre’s and Slazenger’s 1919 Champion Balls,
35/- dozen.
(Postage on one doz.: N.S.W., 1/-; other States, 1/8.)
TENNIS NETS.
Full size, well made— lo/6, 16/-, 18/6, 21/-, 25/-, 30/-
35/-, 40/-, 50/-, 60/-
Tennis Nets under 25/- are suitable for schooluse.
PRESSES, MARKERS, TAPES & ALL SUNDRIES STOCKED.
Rackets Re-strung and Repaired.
LfC
nusimum greatest
SPORTS OUTFITTERS'
nm TOB7I CCOTfISTS
City Sports Depot
99 King St, also at
Jtewcasile d Brisbane


Mothers! Rexona and Rexona Soap are
MRS PETTIT’S TATTLE LAUGHTER (from
photo by lieneln Stump).
needed in
your home
I have been using your
Rexona Soap for my baby
ever since she was born,
and I thinic it is splendid
for children. It is lovely
for the tender skin of
babies, and when used as
a shampoo makes the hair
so soft.
The ointment is a won-
derful thing for anybody
to use; I always keep a
large tin in the home. In
fact, at present I have a
large supply of Rexona
Soap and Ointment in my
Grocery Store, and have
a great demand for it by
all my customers. It has
no equal.
Yours sincerely,
(Mrs.)
KATHLEEN PETTIT
(Grocer),
118 Birrell Street,
Waverley.
REXONA
EVERYONE’S FAVORITE.
Rexona Soap and Ointment
are universal favorites with
everyone who values a pure
and healthy skin, and are
just as good for mother as
for baby’s delicate skin. The
longer you neglect your skin
the harder it will be to care
for it. Delay may result in
Eraema, Ringworm, Running
Sores, or some of the many
and unpleasant forms that
skin trouble so often assumes.
Rexona the Rapid Healer
and Rexona Soap are sure
preservatives for the health
and skin. Rexona Soap keeps
the skin soft and pure, and Rexona
the Rapid Healer will immediatelj
eradicate any disease which may be
apparent, for it arouses the skin to
healthy activity, so that it quickly
recuperates.
Buy a tablet of Rexona Soap from
your Chemist or Storekeeper. It is
beautifully put up and sold at 1/- per
tablet,'or you can get it in boxes con-
taining three tablets in a box. Rexona
is supplied only in triangular pots at
J/6, or in larger pots, holding nearly
four times the quantity, at 3/-
* Coo..
Jooth.n
Anh*eptu
if ADsciuTely
t Heals Reirabie
XIXZX"' X •' 11
5=5
ss
IXX
SKtH
■=o
Z 2
REFRESHING SOOTHIN
E&LIHG ANTISEPTIC SOAP
Keoicateo ON THE SAME PRINCIPLE
AS THE FAMOUS REXONA OINTMENT
m i
:
REXONA
1/6 and 3/-
REXONA
SOAP
!/•
C.' BRAND AUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Wledals.
Works : Birmingham, England,
These series'* of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box. ®
THE GREAT ANXIETY
Everyone is feeling anxious these days, either
directly over the War, or through conditions
due to' the War. The best way to overcome
the feeling is by being tuned up to full pitcn.
tem in tone by taking
Keep your nervous stj?'
THE ROYALTONIC
A few drops In water, night and morning of this
wonderful nerve tonic will enable you to tackle
work and worrij with a strong heart.
PROVED FOR 50 YEARS
All Chemists
1/- - 2/6 - 4/6
Ashton 8C Parsons Ltd.
London and Melbourne
The Ballad of Margaret Kelly.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
[Daniel O’Keefe, the cavalier outlaw of the seven-
teenth century, was a poet and well
as a daring: robber of the rich. His beautiful mistress,
Margaret Kellv, died by his hand when he discovered
that'she had accepted money to betray him into the
hands of the English soldiers.]
C'i HE looked at me, she laughed and lied.
The day was good, the sun was fair.
A red lip for an outlaw’s bride,
A necklet that a queen might wear !
I loved, for all she laughed and lied,
The beetle-bronze upon her hair.
The king has fifty thousand men
To guard the law and keep the wall;
The king has written with a pen
To tell the world a head should tall.
Come fifty thousand swords or ten,
I snap my fingers at them all.
The hills are high, the rocks are sheer ;
I walk abroad in all green ways.
A man may buy his freedom dear
When blood to blood its tribute pays.
My sword has set a good grey fear
About the tune the mountain plays.
The king’s men watch the heather high
At burst of bloom and fall of leaf.
An eagle turns against the sky ;
They curse my luck and call me tlnet.
Bold men, come up the glen and try
A ploy at sword-craft with O Keefe!
But, whisper, gohl is good to win,
And women wear an open ear....
You cannot set the tune too thin
But that a mountain wind will hear.
The word of shame, the traitor sin
Came up the heather harsh and clear.
They bought her for a purse of gold.
She looked at me, she laughed and lied.
The glance of her was high and bold ;
I kissed the red lips of her pride.
Och, such a waist a man would h01d....
For life or death an outlaw’s bride!
Her neck was white as scented thorn.
I laughed above her shining hair.
I loved her for her woman scorn
Of all a man would do and dare ■
Full heart of me of woman born,
She was a flower to pluck and wear.
I drew her close against my breast.
The sun was yellow in the sky.
Sharp was the little blade I prest
The blood ran out she made no cry
Sweet woman, sleep and take your rest
It was the traitor had to die.
The king’s men brought the purse of gold.
They watched the hill till fall of night.
An eagle circled" high and bold
About the rocks in even flight. . . .
Dear heart, for all the ground is cold
Above your face, sleep light, sleep light.
The king has fifty thousand men
To guard the law and keep the wall.
The king- has written with a pen
To buy the fear that holds them all.
O’Keefe ’is here. Come one, come ten !
Pay blood for blood ; the price is small.
She looked at me, she laughed and lied.
The day was good, the sun was fair.
A red lip for an outlaw’s bride
A necklet that a queen might wear I
I loved, for all she laughed and died,
The beetle-bronze upon her hair.
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
Gassett’s Harmonium.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THEY were traders at Poona, dealing
chiefly in copra. It was a queer soit
of partnership, for Gassett and
Schultz were of very different types. It isn’t
always advisable, however, to pry too far
into the motives of men in the South Seas.
Sometimes people are willing to put up wit 1
a lot if they see a ghost of a chance to scrape
together a miniature fortune so that they
can retire to a white man’s country and
spend it. . . .
Gassett was a likeable sort of fellow big
and cheerful, with a voice that seemed to
come out of his boots. Schultz was quick
both in thought and speech, but he never
seemed to look you squarely in the eyes.
Briggs, the supercargo, used _to declaie,
though, that he had enough brains for both.
His head looked as if it were bulging with
tl Martin, our skipper, took a particular
fancy to Gassett the first time we touched
at Poona. The old man always had very
strong likes and dislikes, and it was uncanny
how near he got to the truth sometimes in
his hasty judgment.
It was what Captain Martin and Gassett
called music that cemented their friendship.
The skipper had an entirely mistaken notion
that he could play the accordion and sing.
After the little Cormorant had weathered a
particularly bad snorter, Martin would
stroll about the deck torturing the air with
accordion noise until Briggs finally poured
water into the thing and its works rusted
up. It may be that the skipper had a voice
in his younger days, but a lifetime of bark-
ing at Kanaka deck-hands had certainly
worn it out. Still, he remembered airs, and
he and Gassett had a great time together
while we lay off Poona. .
The upshot was that Martin promised to
get a harmonium for Gassett next time we
were in Melbourne, and deliver it the fol-
lowing Spring when we called at Poona
again. . .
“I suppose you’ll be wantin some music
to go with it,” Martin suggested.
Gassett shook his head but smiled beati-
fically. .
“I couldn’t make head nor tail of that
printed stuff,”-he said. “Just bring along
the old wind-box, and I’ll produce all the
music I want. One needs something here
for diversion now and again. There’s no-
body but Schultz and three planters and a
lot of niggers on the island, and only one
schooner has called here in the last six
months. Now, understand, cap n, while I m
buying this harmonium I want a good one.
I’ll so up to thirty pounds, see.
“You shall have the best that money can
buy, my lad,” said Martin. Leave her to
And Captain Martin ransacked Melbourne
in due course for a harmonium to soothe
Gassett in his loneliness. It was a good
manv months later when we dropped anchor
off Poona, and Gassett’s face was a study as
his eyes fell on the instrument. The skipper
had had it screwed down t®. the J l 1 ®
cabin, thinking to amuse himself with the
thing on the outward voyage, but the dis
couragement be got was as universal as it
was pointed, and after the first few weeks
he had left us in peace. .
Gassett had a gift for playing. He went
straight down into the cabin and played
. tunes that made you think of the times when
you weren’t a hard-bitten sea-going chap.
You must understand that music sounded
queer, anyhow, at a place like Poona where
there’s hardly a thing besides the printing on
the whisky bottles to remind you ot civilisa-
tion. Even the niggers who came oil m
queer boats with cargo, got to cocking then
heads on one side and looking puzzled, as it
it meant something they couldn t understand
though they’d like to. There was one tune
Gassett played that made the supercargo
wilder than a wet lien because lie d spent
some variegated years trying to forget the
thing it reminded him of.
Suddenly Gassett got up. ,
“But I’m forgetting,” he said. Cap n, 1
wish you’d slip ashore now. Schultz is
pretty bnd. lie won J t cidmit lie s heciclecl
straight for the Milky Way, but you’ve only
to look at him and hear Ins cough. If he
lasts another month it’ll be a miracle. Iye
seen ’em go that way before. Still, I d be
glad if you’d just run the rule over him.
By the way, I’m much obliged to you for the
wind-box. Thirty pounds, eh?”
Gassett counted out the money and
hio’ded it over to Captain Martin.
It was pathetic the way Gassett had
nursed his sick partner. Schultz had one
leg right over the brink, but didn t know it.
Like most other sufferers from his com-
plaint, he thought he was recovering all the
time, and just to cheer him up Gassett hay
fostered the notion. Schultz was as weak
as a rat, but his brain was still working ai
top pressure, and he kept planning for the
future. Meanwhile, Gassett, knowing bettei,
had been keeping his eye open for a nice
quiet corner of the island that would do to
start a white man’s cemetery in, but mean-
while he’d turned himself into a slave to
make things easier, for his patient. He was
a man all through, was Gassett.
We spent only one day at I oona. lhe old
man was anxious to push on. He went up
to the partners’ bungalow and found Schultz
Iving in a deck chair, propped up with
cushions that Gassett had made out of a
sheet and soft pango down. He had about
a week to live—if he were lucky. But you
would never have thought it, except by_look-
ing at him. His head was full of business,
and except when he was cursing his cough
he was as cheerful as a cricket. It struck
me then that there was something peculiar
about a sick man who was so pleased with
himself and the world in general.
I ought to explain that we carried mails
for the people who lived on Poona, and we
were paid for it. The pay wouldn t keep a
fly in treacle for a day, but mails are a
thing you have to take very seriously if you
take them at all. The letters were brought
off to us, in a sealed bag, by Dan Peterson,
the chief planter there, and we were under
contract to deliver them intact at Borenda,
five hundred miles way; and it would have
been a pretty serious offence if anyone had
done any fooling with that mail-bag.
We were due to sail at six o’clock, - and
Peterson came off with the mail half-an-hour
before that, bringing Captain Martin in
the same boat. The skipper had spent a
good while talking to Schultz.
The harmonium was reverently 'lowered
into' the boat, Gassett superintending the
performance with the utmost care. Ihe
boat was a little fifteen-foot affair. Peter-
son climbed up the side of the steamer, ana
before he did so he put the mail-bag down
on top of the harmonium, as he had to negoti-
ate a rope ladder. I happened to be oil
deck, near Gassett, watching. There was no-
body else looking, as the men were busy with
various duties.
The skipper weighed about sixteen stone,
and when he got ready to follow Peterson
he put all his weight on the gunwale of
the little boat; She tilted over, and I saw
what would happen in another ten seconds
to the harmonium. I gave a yell. Gassett
tried to -shout, too, but I believe liis voice
was frozen up with the awful notion of
losing that wonderful wind-box.
In spite of his weight, Captain Martin,
like most fat sailors, was remarkably agile,
and I couldn’t understand his clumsiness.
Instead of taking his weight off the gunwale
he looked round, but kept his foot therrtill
it was under water, and the harmonium
toppled over. The cord tying the top of the
mail-bag had got twisted round one of the
handles at the side of the instrument, and
wind-box and bag plunged down together
into thirty fathoms of water.
The skipper bellowed and caught hold of
the rope ladder just in time to save himself
from taking a header. As it was his legs
dangled in the sea till he drew himself up.
Nobody spoke for a minute.
“Damn nice thing! The mails have sunk!”
snapped Peterson.
“You shouldn’t have left them there,” re-
torted the skipper.
“Well, I don’t believe there was anything
much there,” said Peterson. “But poor Gas-
sett ! He’s been living for nothing but that
harmonium during the last ten months. I
think I’ll slip down into your cabin and
scribble a couple of notes, anyway.”
“I am sorry about that instrument.” the
skipper said, facing the crestfallen Gassett,
.and fishing in his pocket.- “That’s thirty
pounds I owe you.”
“No, no,” said Gassett, in his easy fashion.
“An accident is an accident, and you’d
delivered the wind-box to us when it" hap-
pened.”
(Continued on next page.)


111
r
W
Thick Crusted Sores on Head 8 Face-Festered Ankle-Poisoned
Hands 8 Ulcers Inflammatory, Irritating Skin Troubles.
Zam-Buks Wonderful Healing Powers
A typical example of Zam-Buk’s many=sided usefulness and wonderful
healing power is provided by the experience of the Rudgley family, living at
Larkin Street, Camperdown, Sydney. Mrs. Rudgley writes:—
fh . U m ji lttle bo >?’ William and Ronald, had chicken-pox. Thick crusted sores broke out on
atd I h hid S a an ttr a h| S ’ * a K d m : i , Ue^ kept 00Zing ° Ut from under the scabs - The irritation was awful,
father freelf with 7 * 1 1 be^an the Zam-Buk treatment. My method was to
Ronald heciZ L h i S ? aP a " d c,eanse the P ,a ces thoroughly. I had the most trouble with
Bafm^ndthL °? g a,r ’ bUt after the sores were washed I applied the Zam=Buk
theTcah« Jn \ thl \} reatment was that all the bad matter was drawn from the sores and
the scabs fell away, leaving the skin beautifully clean and healthy looking.
healed up SfcSlv£“* ? fte , r treatln f? “ " ith Zan-Buk (or a short time it was
successful. * >e jkteoiUd n£\Ts£Zt «!“* »«« fouud it
M r s ;.,P ud fi |e v’s rule boys,
William and Ronald.
Zam-Buk is
Obtainable from
all Chemists and
Stores at 1/6 and
3/6 per pot.
GUARD
AGAINST
SUBSTITUTION
When you ask for Zam-Buk Healing: Balm, see that
you get it. Bo not he put off' with something: Which is
claimed by your trader as “just as g:ood,” because
it returns him more profit. There is NOTHING
“just as g:ood” as the proved, reliable, ever-
ready and effective Zam-Buk.
//
“EVERY HOME NEEDS
I was standing at the other side of the
deck-house. They couldn’t see me, but it
so happened that I could hear every word
distinctly.
“Gassett, that was no accident,” said the
skipper.
“Why—why,” said the trader, “what
d you mean ? I’m disappointed, but I couldn’t
of, letting you pay for it. As a matter
ot lact, he went on, lowering his voice a
trifle, “money’s a-flush just now.”
There was a fractional pause.
“Flush, eli?” said the skipper in a queer,
startled sort of voice. “You and Schultz
struck oil?”
“Don’t say a word about it. Yes, we’re
all light. Perhaps I ought to keep my
mouth shut, but I know you won’t talk.
There’s a bed of shells close to our beach,
and we’ve found pearls there, cap’n.”
Pearls, eh? Ilo! IIo! Now I begin to
see daylight.”
“How’s that?”
“Never mind for the minute. You go on
with what you were telling me.”
“Well, I’ve been gathering these shells
pearls for three months now, and
there s enough already to keep us decently
in some phace where folk live like Christians,
tut it 11 take pretty well another year to
clean the bed right up.”
Have you got your share in your own
P°®®®® sion ’ niy lad?” the skipper asked.
. re all right. Schultz has ’em locked
up in his safe.”
Die captain bit the end off a cigar and
spat it out viciously.
You take my advice” he began; and
his voice trailed off as they walked away.
A day or two later I asked the skipper
whether Gassett had asked him to get
another harmonium in place of the one that
had been sunk.
. JD* • Why r er T 110 ’” s . a 'd Martin, “come
to think of it, he didn’t give me any instruc-
tions on the subject.”
It was fully a year later when the Cormor-
ant put her anchor down off Poona again.
Han I eterson came off in a boat and beamed
ac us as though we were all long-lost
brothers.
“Sec anything of Gassett as you came
aiong?” he asked.
‘‘Dassett?” repeated the skipper. “No
AVhat’s he doing?”
“9 h ' cleared out a couple of days ago.
i bought a twenty-foot sailing cutter off
me, her up with provisions, and
cleared out cor somewhere else.”
“A here?” asked Captain Martin.
1 eterson shrugged his shoulders.
“ H P said he was off to Borenda, but
■ 3rei c ‘ a s due east and he went due south.”
“Schultz is dead, of course?”
Peterson nodded.
•He pegged out the' day after you sailed,
a year ago.” ’
* * „
* *
In due course we touched at Borenda, and
nothing had been seen of Gassett there, nor
ot his cutter. I was a little curious about
lnm, and meant to ask the skipper a Question
or two on the subject some day. It was only
a few weeks later, however, that Captain
Martin ancl I were smoking and yarning in
Ins cabin when he fell into a reminiscent
mood.
“Did you ever hear of Dick Clay?” he
asked.
By chance I had not, and I said so.
The skipper poked the ashes in the bowl of
his pipe thoughtfully.
“Nearly everybody has heard of him,” he
said. “lie was captain and owner of a ketch
that, was ‘cut off’ by niggers while he was
trading in the Tolo Islands. The blacks
pretended to be friendly until a few dozen
of them had swarmed on to the ketch. Then
the treacherous brutes turned on Clay and
his crew with knives and spears. Two of
the sailors were wounded before the captain
could start shooting, and his own son’s head
was cracked open. Clay plugged ’em with
lead right and left, and after they jumped
overboard and started to swim for the shore
he saw his son lying dead on deck. That
sent him clean loony for the time, so he
started shooting at the niggers in the water
and he killed several of ’em. You know the
way the Government mothers the niggers in
such places. Of course the Tolo chief spread
his side of the yarn before the Resident Com-
missioner, who sent a message to Dick Clay
to the effect that he could consider himself
under arrest until a warship came along to
deal with him. ‘Unnecessary savagery,’
the Resident Commissioner said Clay’s
offence was.
“That meant about ten years in prison
if he was caught—ten years, mind you, be-
sides seeing his own son murdered right
unoer his eyes—so Clay hopped it. He was
a London man originally. If he’d had any
sense he would have gone back to London
where nobody would ever have spotted him,
but you know what it is. Once a man
starts trading among the islands round here
it gets into his blood, and he isn’t much good
for anything else. He stayed far enough
troni the 1010 Islands, and as far as I know
the Government never nabbed him, though he
had a narrow escape once. The law’s the
law, and that’s right enough, but nobody
"; lth a spark of human feeling would have
L| a y aw’ay, knowing the circumstances.
Well, Clay went into partnership with a
who d known him before he had to
change Ins name, and things worked all right
until they began to get rich. They’d found
well > never mind what they’d found, but there
w as a heap of money in it. And Clay’s part-
ner thought out a scheme of having Clay
arrested and grabbing all the money himself.
kO lie sent a letter to the authorities giving
(-day away never arousing the least sus-
picion m Clay. The partner was sick at the
time, and he was puzzled to know how the
law would work in regard to Clay’s half of
the money A ship put in and he asked the
skipper a lot of questions as to what would
lappen if a case of the kind arose. Of
course he didn’t let on what his game was,
but it so happened that the skipper had
known Gass er—er—had known this fellow
Jvnrn S y ? rs M g , o ,’ sO . he was able to
va ™ w and spoil the sick man’s scheme.”
How ? I asked casually.
Captain Martin pensively,
the letter kind of got lost, and as the sick
man died immediately afterwards Clay was
able to stop where lie was and collect the
spoil.”
“So,” I exclaimed, “that’s why you sank
that harmonium, eh?”
Martin got up to go on deck. At the door
he to me with very cold eyes.
. Young man,” he said, “you’re getting
things mixed up. I haven’t any recollection
any harmonium.” v-
“Well, no.” I replied vaguely, “of course
not.
H. P. HOLT.
A Day in the Territory.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IN the Territory that time of night when
grave-yards yawn is a little later than
it is in Denmark. It is the half-hour
before dawn when myall blacks “rush,” and
leave spear-riddled carcases for the dingoes.
But that sort of thing would not happen
to Kimball. Throughout the night his sub-
conscious self had listened whilst he slum-
bered, and it now woke him just before the
stars began to fade. Slipping from under
his net he crept behind a tree trunk and
waited, rifle and revolver at hand. Up the
channel, in the gutta-percha, he guessed
they” were hidden—also waiting. If they
were painted and felt very brave they might
do rash things, given inducement. But Kim-
ball did not expect any excitement. They
knew that he knew, and were perhaps only
inquisitive.
For three days he had seen their tracks,
but had not seen them in the flesh. That is a
way they have.
The mopokes ceased their duet, and the
heralds of dawn half-sleepily took their
place. But no sound from the gutta-percha.
The east grew red. A flight of duck
settled on the river. Dingoes, brolgas and
ibis came to water. There was a splash
in the river as a crocodile seized one of the
ducks. The rest, squawking, flew away.
It was now full daylight. Kimball walked
down to the gutta-percha.
“About half-a-dozen,” he murmured.
.... I][ e was walking back, whistling, when all
in an instant he leapt sideways, swearing,
h ear had come to him now, and the cause
of it was a sleepy-looking little reptile, a
detenceless-lookmg bogey, armed with sud-
den death.
breakfasting and getting his horses,
Kimball rode across the downs into some
forest country. There were two bulls run-
ning there that he was searching for. He
soon picked up cattle-tracks where no sign
was visible save to an expert tracker. All
the broad surface to Kimball was eloquent,
and. hour after hour, as he jogged along
leading his pack-horse, the' earth and
bleached grasses gossiped to him, telling him
the local news. Sometimes he paid little
heed to this narrative; but now and again
his hawk-like glance shot quickly to left
and right.
Towards midday lie came to the edge of
some downs country and saw his quarry
far ahead. Hobbling his pack-horse he rode
cautiously awhile through giant pea-bush.
W hen the herd smelt him and decamped he
ser oft' full gallop and was soon on the flank
of one of the recreant bulls. A hundred
yards at full speed they went. The bull
slackened speed to a wobbling gait, and
within a.few seconds Kimball had wrenched
the animal by the tail, prostrate.
After strapping the bull down Kimball
caught up the fleeing herd at the edge of
the forest and attached himself to the second
bull. He urged him towards a little plain,
and there began shouldering him. This beast
was no scrubber; he knew and tolerated
man at a distance, and had no desire what-
ever to leave the herd. Kimball drew his
revolver and shot a small piece off the bull’s
nose. The camp horse, trained as if for a
circus, did his work without guidance. With
lopped ears and glistening eyes he cantered
an even pace with his adversary. Some-
times his head protruded across the bull’s
neck as he bumped his brisket against the
shoulder of the beast as it rose in its stride.
With slavering nozzle and eyeballs glar-
ing the bull struggled clumsily though fiercely
against this galling coercion. But instead
or going his own way ho was borne gradu-
ally round, so that he was soon lumbering
along m the opposite direction, with the
horse attached to him like a* barnacle, for-
e\ er pushing him back when he strove to
alter his course. He was at a disadvantage
too, being very fat, and soon he threw in
the towel. Kimball drew off, gave him a
sharp chop with his whip, and proceeded to
drive him. hot, worried and crest-fallen,
hack to his brother truant. Then he un-
strapped the first bull, and drove the two
prodigals southwards.
i * , cai ? kit the boys’ camp in two days,”
he calculated. “Another five days from there
to the head station.”
. ko rode along, considering various pos-
sibilities, such as whether the mail, which
came every two months, would bring any
letters for him. Through the long after-
n<?o-0. he rode. There was no white man
with n o() miles, no township within three
hundred. Yet lie felt no loneliness, and the
sweeping forest, undefiled from creation,
seemed in nowise alien to him.
Before sunset he was camped. He threw
and side-lined the bulls, hobbled his horses
and had eaten his tea before dark. Then he
rigged his net, which was black for invisi-
bility, and retired to rest, after folding the
bottom of the net under his blankets to
keep out the “Joe Blakes,” as he termed the
reptiles.
, Have to be up early again to-morrow
count of them damned nigs. That last smoke
I saw seemed pretty near. Blast them! Yer
can’t get a decent sleep with them I
wish they hadn’t rejected me for this here
war. Now, that’s where yer would get some
excitement.”
A. P. ROGERS.


y ;
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
_
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
I* ARE YOU n
Ruptubeu
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Jo you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, .and We
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if. you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY* NEW: it is,
in fact. TOE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
.YET INVENTED. It does away- altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE vet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what wp think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL.
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vie.
Don’t wait to
be Bilious
Keep well. Whenever your appetite begins fo
flag, or a sour stomach and
coated tongue warn you,
take Carter’s Little
Liver Pills (purely
vegetable) and the
trouble Won’t
come.
Good for
man, woman
and child.
rrus
IVEIc
muA
For your health’s sake stick to this old, tried
and true remedy. Purely vegetable.
Small Pill—Small Dose—Small Price.
GENUINE must bear signature
Now
each packet
for 3d.
This favourite, (one-lasting,
delicious sweetmeat gives you
the greatest value in refresh-
ment you can possibly buy.
;v ; \J , , >'
Get it at cnemisTs. confectioners.
Tobacco Shops and other Stores.
Send it to the
Soldiers and Sailors
5 Bars
in a
sealed
packet
for
3d.
JUvoO*
pe^y.
the
right
KEPT
tight
SEALED
M
fifwmg
c
Two Flavours
£
m
%
J. C. GAMBLES 8 CO., Sole Aust. Agents, Rosebery, Sydney.
The Flavour Lasts
r.
z
y
/
\
/
i
\
L.
A
*>
The Right- Sorf
A
LOCBL
PATRIOTISM
.Your
Aim? e
Then have a JHOT
|% at smoking
Referee
Tk Australian Tobacco
l i
T
1
X
—«ta
<n
«rc
a J»7«
Look at nine out of every ten Cycies
and you’ll see what an old
BROOKS
saddle looks like —as well as a new one.
You can still see the quality and on asking
the owner he will tell you its still there
for a Brooks endures some say indefinitely.
Ask your
Agent.
HORLICK’S
MALTED MILK'
For dispelling that tired feeling—for building up debili-
tated and depleted energies—take Horlick’s. Horlick’s
Malted Milk is the Ideal Food-Drink and is made
in a moment with the addition of water only.
§


IlfilANGßOVrrEll
3
mm
LEATHER
ELIMINATES WASTE POWER
because it grips the pulleys and transmits
maximum power to your machinery
NIANGROVITE RAWHIDE BELTING
is unequalled for difficult drives. Consult
us about your transmission problems and get
the benefit of'expert advice.
Mang'rovite Belting Ltd.
(Successors to Charles Ludowici),
49 Wynyard Square (near C.P. o.),Sydney,N.S.W
Western Australia: Bibbs, Bright & Co., Perth
S’th Australia: John Reid & Sons Ltd., Adelaide
The Eagle 8 Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
379 Kent Street,
Sydney. _
264 Latrobe Street, Melbourne; Kalgoorlie and Fremantle, W.A.
Charles Atkins & Co., Adelaide. Paul & Gray Ltd., Newcastle.
John Reid & Nephews, Brisbane.
KNIVES FOR
WOODWORKING MACHINES
JHBH
iJJ I
HIGH-QUALITY STEEL-CUTTING EDGES, with Iron Backs, made to your order
from our own material.
When ordering state size on cut, depth, thickness, length and width of slots;
whether for Fixed Heads or Movable Bolts. If Fixed Heads Template absolutely
necessary.
m
'■S-
m
GENUINE ASBESTOS CEMENT SHEETS.
The building material that will not burn or
decay. Fireproof, white-antproof, improves with
age.' Write for full particulars, also samples.
James Hardie Co. Ivtd.
Cor. Wynyard & York Streets, Sydney.
REFRIGERATING AND
ICE-MAKING MACHINERY.
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNlNG—which is pertinent to the times
—their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for then-
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions they can be
relied upon to. give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.” Their strong-
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason Jor this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
We study your requirements and design the layout of your
plant, not only to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service.
All
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
SINCLAIR LTD..
<?Ti , - f*/ 'A '■ '
Alliance Building, 97 Pitt
Street, Sydi
s .
it Melbourne, Brisbane,
; and Auckland, N.Z-
t
L.A. Rowboat Motors
MAGNETO TYPE.
Horse-power 2; Bore of Cylinder 2 5-8
inches; Stroke of Piston 2*4 inches;
Weight 621 b.
A light, durable motor, made expressly for attach-
ing to fishing-boats, pleasure-boats, oaiioes, et-c.
Develops a speed from 6 to 8 miles per hour.
Special price, packed and delivered Free
on Boat or Rails, £25.
Correspondence invited.
W. Chandler
Ironmongers and
Hardware Merchants,
Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
tUAOt M aj> h
Ts
&
o
o
&
y
&
Broken Castings
any size, can be reliably repaired by Brazing with aid
of
Patent Lava Flux
Tensile and Torsional Straiifniailitaiiied.
Heat necessary to weld destroys cast-iron.
Sold in tins: lib.. 50/-; Jib., 25/-; 20z,, 7/6.
31b. Flux will braze broken casting 15 feet long by
1 inch thick—instructions round each tin.
Employed by Victorian State Departments and all over
Commonwealth. Ask vour hardware firm or apply to us.
REPAIR YOUR OWN CASTS. NO EXPERT KNOWLEDGE REQUIRED.
CAST-IRON BRAZING CO. (Reg.)
4-5 Spenser Street, St, Hilda, Vitloria.
PUMPS-Good Pumps Only
We manufacture what is probably the most extensive and
varied line of Pumps listed by any Australian Manufacturer, and
can at the present time deliver all Standard Heavy lanes listed.
We illustrate Heavy Side Bolt or Well Pumps. These are made
with valves as shown, ball valves or special valves to any specifi-
cation; they are supplied in all sizes, and are regularly listed
from 12in. to Sin. in diameter, by any stroke required. Other Pumps
manufactured include:—
BORE PUMPS, all sizes and strokes, any specification.
DOWNING’S Patent FOOLPROOF Artesian Deep Well
Cylinders.
BALL Valve ARTESIAN DEEP WELL Cylinders.
PUMP CATALOGUE ON REQUEST.
CONTRACT WORK—Send Specifications
ALOERDICE LTD., Warrnambool
—
1A complete Electric Light Power
Plant, suitable for Suburban and
Country Houses, Stations, Stores
Hospitals, Schools of Arts, etc.
■
Runs on
Kerosene
O'*
wii
e Gallon of Kerosene
ill light 32 Lamps for 4% hours.
FULL PARTICULARS PROM SOLE AGENTS-.
N.S.W. & Victoria: WARBURTON, FRANKI LTD.,
309 Kent Street, Sydney; 380 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: SMELLIE & CO. LTD., Brisbane,
’aaHSIOOW, SJHX MI
St
>9
MEANS
SMOOTH WORK
SATISFIED SHEARERS
ABSENCE OF DELAY
VERY
GOOD
FEW RENEWALS
SHORN SHEEP
GENERAL ALL-ROUND ECONOMY.
i sfeti
SHEEP
SHEARING
MACHINE
DANGAR GEDYE & C 9
SYDNEY.
A Revolution in Concentrating Tables
construction. 11601 " 8 *"* *“”* M h *’ e bo ** ,ea »«*»* «® W M*b prices for Table Concentrators, owing to expensive mechanical
We are now able to announce the invention of a Table Concentrator which not only meets the demand for a Low-priced Machine, bnt
occupies much less space, has far gi eater capacity, and makes cleaner concentrates than ANY EXISTING TABLE.
OUR PATENT “CURVILINEAR” TABLE IS SOLD FOR £75.
Having been in the ore-concentrator business for over 20 years, we know what we are talking about.
Another invention which will effect an enormous saving in your mineral extraction is RICHARD’S PATENT IMPROVED PULSATOR JIG
Capacity 3-4 tons per hour. Size of Jig, only 25 inches by 12 inches, 30 inches high.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS:
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., Equitable Building, 350 George Street, Sydney,
