

DEWAR’S —The Spirit of Age and Wisdom
B. <3r- WATKINS <s£. CO.*
Machinery Merchants. 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOK
Mining- and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE
MONEY
ON EASY
TERMS $
///
ON ALL CLASSES OF SECURITY
WITHOUT POSSESSION.
N S W MONT de PIETE
Dsl C9T LIMITED.
74 Casllereagh St.74.Sydney
CAPITAL 3,200,000 ‘Phone City 5325
fir&nc/tes jA- 29 King St.. Newcastle, N-SW- 71517 Swanstoh 5t Mei^.Vic
40 Adelaide St.Brisbane.Q. I 97 A Casflereagfi 5tJ59 6eorge St. West, Sydney.
Joseph W Hilt, Acting General Manager.
Li
THE “AUSTRALIAN
RE VIEW ’ ’ says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not be laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete I). and I, Co. Ltd.”
i i
CHROMOL
99
(Trade Mark)
The Super Driving Belt.
The largest mining and smelt-
ing plants use “Chromol,” because
of its proven superiority over all
other Belting,
Sole Makers:
J. C.Ludowici# Son Ltd.
Pioneer Leather Belting Works,
H 7 York Street, Sydney
Pioneers and Leaders since 1858.
THE BEST !
m
<ai».
a
S
®
//?ea
nd
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablet-
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organa.
HANSENS
u
sdf
For INDIGESTION
■anti DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
AMIWUD js strong and yet is elastic; stands vibration, is a
non-conductor of heat, cold and sound. It is also vermin-proof,
hard to mark or damage, and may be fixed easily.
AMIWUD is the acknowledged best panelling, best for all new
homes, best for re-modelling old ones, and best value for the outlay.
Write for samples and illustrated booklet, post free.
The Paraffine Companies, Inc. (F. M. Prince, Australasian Manager),
. Challis' House, Sydney.
5~L_
:
C_3
A new and revised edition of the
“Referee ” is now available,
and will be sent post free on
application to
JOHN LYSAGHT (Australia) LIMITED
8 Spring Street, SYDNEY.
SYv« e * s
the recognised standard
of quality throughout
the Commonwealth
HORSE wkisky
EDGAR ALLEN SPECIAL STEELS.
«
TAG ” SPECIAL HIGH-SPEED TOOL STEEL, without equal for
general machine-tool work, and heavy high-speed roughing.
“ K 9 ” OIL HARDENING STEEL, a non-shrinking tool steel
s
great accuracy.
Booklets and all particulars regarding the abov,e lines from
MOTOR-CAR AND AIRCRAFT STEELS, such as Nickel, Nickel-
Chrome, Chrome-Vanadium. “IMPERIAL” MANGANESE STEEL
effects remarkable savings in mining and engineeririg work. Supplied
in castings, rolled bars, sheets and forgings.
NOYES BROS.
(SYDNEY) LTD., 115 Clarence Street, Sydney.
(MELBOURNE) PTY., LTD., 499-501 Bourke Street, Melbourne; sad Darling Building, Adelaide
SELLING AGENTS* CHAS. E. BERNAYS, 125 Adelaide Street, Brisbane; J. R. W.
OPAIjOID
TOOTH PASTE
Used Every Day
Prevents Decay.
sd
Make NO mistake —the Circular Quay, is the most popular establishment in Sydney for Luncheons, Afternoon Teas, Dinners and After-Theatre Supp
Orchestral performances at all f meals.
ers.
The Bulletin
Vol. 40.—N0. 2079.
Thursday, December 18, 1919.
PRICE 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Judge for Yourself.
You have read in the press the fiei’ce criticism which met Lord Fisher’s
• articles, of which this book is an amplification. He has been variously
described as “the maker of the navy” and “a well-meaning muddler.”
What he really is you can best judge from reading this book.
MEMORIES by Lord Fisher.
Lord Fisher was in the position to write a book like this, and he has
written it with a candor that is remarkable. It is one of the most
unconventional books of memories ever penned—and the most racy.
Here are some interesting bits: Lord Fisher on King Edward —
on the German Admirals —on the Dardanelles —on Nelson —on Things
that Please Him —on Personalities, etc.
This is the publisher’s opinion : “The racy stories in Lord Fisher’s
extended reminiscences are likely to cause a great sensation. Nothing
so outspoken has been published for years.”
Every reader, every man of affairs, and especially every library,
will want this book, so the demand will be heavy.
PRICE 28/6 (postage 6d.).
ORDER YOUR COPY NOW.
To be ready about Christmas Time.
From Your Own Bookseller.
HODDER & STOUGHTON,
Publishers* LONDON.
MELVILLE & MULLEN PTY., LTD., Collins Street, Melbourne.
“VERY NICE, VERY SWEET, VERY
CLEAN, VERY GOOD, MISTER
MACKENZIE.”
Every Dinkum Digger knows what that means.
Wouldn’t you like a Souvy of all the slang
words and phrases the various Diggers used?
Here s one that’s Bon!
‘DIGGER DIALECTS’
It*s compiled by a Digger (W. H. Downing, late 57th Battalion,
A.1.F.), and there’s many a scream in it—“it’s an absolute
blitherer! You can get it at any book shop for two Rats and
Fowls — Get your copy now before they’re all sold out.
'DIGGER DIALECTS,’ 2/-
every-
where
Or direct from the Publishers,
LOTHIAN BOOK PUBLISHING CO., Rialto, Melbourne
*mT© h
ius»
BOOKS. The Gifts that Please.
Our recommendation is behind the following books. Mind, we
do not say that they would please everyone—but you can rely on
the short description after each title. It is for you to judge.
The Art of J. Kauffmann. Wonderful photographs. Edition
limited to 500 signed copies, of which most are sold. 21/- (6d.).
Mia Mia Mites. The adventures of two quaint little aboriginals,
told and illustrated in color by M. Pornett. 2/6 (Id.).
The Story of a Battalion, by M. Devine, M.C., C. de G. Life in the
A.1.F., as seen through the eyes of a single battalion. Illus-
trated by Daryl Lindsay. 6/- (2d.).
Khaki and Cassock, by Rev. K. T. Henderson. A new view' of
Australian character. Illustrated by N. Waller. 4/6 (2d.).
Mee-ow! by.E. M. Lesslie. Smart, society satire. 2/- (2d.).
The Australians: Their Final Campaign, 1918. By F. M. Cutlaek.
The only record of this important phase. With 15 official maps.
10/6 (4d.).
Notable Novels.
Shavings, by J. Lincoln. Full of laughter. Scandal, by Cosmo
Hamilton. A little daring. Wine of Astonishment, by M. H.
Bradley. A new sex novel. Golden Bough, by George Gibbs. A
splendid spy story. Prefaces, by Don Marquis. Smart satire.
Small Things, by M. Deland. The War in France. Dumb-Bell of
Brookfield, by J. T. Foote. One of the best dog stories. The
Laughing Girl, by R. W. Chambers. A novel with a fascinating
heroine. Three Strings, by V. S. Lincoln. A rattling detective
yarn.
Each 5b (4d.).
FROM YOUR. BOOKSELLER.
MELVILLE & MULLEN PTY. LTD., 262-264 Collins Street, Melbourne
“MUSTDIE”
fs
df
sd
Sold Everywhere in Tins,
9d. each
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
“MOSTDIE"
The Great Insect Destroyer.
Kills Insects, Fleas, Flies, Moths,
Cockroaches, etc.
or torward 9d. in stamps to Hudson’s
s Eumenthol Chemical Co., Ltd.
Duerdin & Sainsbury, Melbourne Ageuts.
The Red Page
More Dennis
C. J. Dennis comes along once more with
his annual contribution to the bookshelf.
.Bast year in “Digger Smith” he gave us a
nne book with a real heart-call, which con-
tained a very attractive picture of a returned
Digger whose Australianism the war had
deepened, and whose mateship stood every
test; now in Jim of the Hills (Angus and
Robertson, Sydney) he leaves his larrikins,
reformed and otherwise, and goes right into
the bush. The incidents of this new yam
circle round a sawmill. A fight, a strike,
a fatal accident, a widow in search of a mate,
a bush-fire, a love tale and a lot of philosophy
are crowded into 12 sets of verse. There is
all the effect of a novel in small compass,
and the “Den” touch gives life to the whole.
Jim is a sturdy bushman of careful life and
decent habits who at 30 lives alone
and holds ilong conversations with his dog.
J?® inking of marrying the widow, but
didn t because the Spring came and brought
the girl. All through the characterisation is
good, but not quite as convincing as in
earlier volumes. Jim is a little too crude
tor a gooff Australian bush type; the girl
doesn t matter enough; Ben Murray is a
bit conventional; and the widow is just
a widow. Bob Blair is the best picture—
Bob and the dog. But the verse hardly
keeps up. There is more tendency to fall
into the commonplace and let things go
when a little careful work would have lifted
a whole stanza.
Still, Jim is likely to be very popular. He
is a lot more respectable than the “Bloke,”
and the respectable is seldom the pic-
turesque; but'he has enough vigor and in-
terest, in spite of all, to hold the attention
from first page to last.
. Take some samples. This is how the feel-
ing of Spring getting into Jim’s blood is
described :
But where's the call to think of strife with such good
things about?
The gum-leaves all a-twinkle as the sun comes
peepin’ out.
The blue-caps in and out the fern, red robins on
the gate,
And who could hear the song of them and hold a
thought of hate ?
Oh, it’s Mornin’! Mornin’! No time for thinkin’
w'rong.
And I’d be seared to strike a man, I feel so awful
strong.
Grey thrush is in the wattle, an’ it’s “Oh, you pretty
dear! ”
He’s callin’ to his little wife, an’ don’t care who
should hear
In the great bush, the fresh bush, washed again
with dew.
An' my axe is on my shoulder, an’ there’s work
ahead to do.
Oh, it’s Mornin’! Singih’ Mornin’! in the land I
count the best,
An’ with the heart and mind of me I’m singin’
with the rest.
Not quite the speech of the bushman that,
but a better imitation than .much that has
seen print in prose works. This is from
the description of Jim’s contest with the
widow :
I’m longin’ for a breather, for I’ve done my nerve
a lot,
When suddenly she starts on “Love,” an’ makes
the pace red hot.
In half a jiff she has me on the ropes an’ breathin’
hard,
With not a fight inside me—l can only duck an’
guard.
She uppercuts me with a sigh, an’ jabs me with
a glance.
(When a widow is the fighter, has a single bloke a
chance?)
Her short-arm blows are amorous, most lovin’ is
her lunge ;
Until it’s just a touch an’ go I don’t throw up the
sponge.
When Ben Murray lay dying Bob Blair
stood by him :
With a hard hand, woman-kind,
He pushed back the sweaty hair.
“Now then, laddie, ease your mind,
Pain will end for you out There...c”
An’ the smile on Blair’s rough face
Was a blessin’ ari’ a grace.
There is no verse in the book of greater
distinction than that; but there is a good
deal that is of a lower standard. Dennis
will add nothing to his laurels by Jim of
the Hills, but he will hold the circle of
readers that he has won. There are a
couple of illustrations in color by Hal Gye,
and the book is excellently printed.
Verse, Ours and Others
While concurring with Mr. Brien in hia
estimate of American verse (B. 27/11/’l9),
his complacent belittling of the English
schools leads me "to remonstrance. When he
compares the work in “Georgian Poetry” un-
favorably with that of Miss Zora Cross, he
notably impairs the value ®f his remaining
criticisms. Represented in the “Georgian
Poetry” volumes are such skalds as Rupert
Brooke (who, though dead, is as “modern”
as any of Mr. Brien’s citations), Walter
de la Mare, Harold Munro, Wilfred,
Gibson, Ralph Hodgson and W. H.
Davies. Mr. Brien apparently complains
that their work is full of “half-expressed
thought” and deliberate disregard of the
accepted codes of scansion. Because of this
irritating fact, they rank inferior to Miss
Zora Cross, who is such a disciplined dis-
ciple of “form” that her blank verse may
be read backwards or forwards without any
evident difference in either its beat or its
blankness. Mr. Brien has, it would seem,
more taste for Pope and Cowper than for
Thomson or Yaughan. Pope, at least, told
you plain facts without any “abrupt transi-
tion of thought” in a metre so rigidly per-
fect that it might have been turned out by
a sausage-machine. The truth is, Mr. Brien
is quite unaware of the aims of the “Geor-
gian Poetry” school. Might I suggest to
him, therefore, that perhaps such poets as
Walter de la Mare require a reasonable
amount 'of poetry in the reader himself be-
fore their meaning becomes as apparent as
Mr. Brien would desire it? Might I further
suggest that this may be the enormous dif-
ference between “The Everlasting Mercy”
and “The Sentimental Bloke”? And,
further, that the fact that in the front ranks
of English bards are found such writers as
Yeats. De la Mare and Drinkwater argues
that there must be a large modicum of essen-
tial poetry in the English .verse-reading pub-
lic’ And, still further, that the fact that a
book of verse of the order of “The Senti-
mental Bloke” made a “popular hit” here
should be kept well in the background in any
discussion as to the merits of Australian
poetic taste?
KENNETH SLESSOR.
French and Smith-Dorrien
Things appear to be happening in the
neighborhood of Viscount French’s war book
“1914.” One is that J. W. Fortescue has
made remarks in the Quarterly Review
which were much worse even than those in
a recent Bulletin notice, and in con-
sequence has lost his job as official historian
of the war. The trouble, of coursfe, centres
in General Smith-Dorrien, the man who was
sent to French when he wanted Plumer, and
about whom French could find nothing good.
According to French, Smitli-Dorrien pro-
posed that the whole army should retire to.
England after the first defeat; also he was
given to fits of depression ; also he was hard
to find when wanted and apparently didn’t
excite French’s approval when found. Even
the fact that lie stayed behind (behind
French at any rate) in the retreat from
Mons and put up a hefty scrap at Le Gateau
seems 40 be held rather as an evidence of
bad judgment than as solid proof that he
wasn’t addicted to hasty retreat. But the
other fact that French could see ,no good in
Rawlinson, who was also sent to him with-
out his dignity being consulted, casts some
doubt on his reports of Smith-Dorrien, for
Australians afterwards got to know Raw-
linson.
The story which cost J. W. Fortescue a
job he Wanted to .get rid of seems to have
been that French lost his head in the first
big battle of his life, that he left too early
and got back to his new base too far ahead
of a lot of other people, and that Smith-
Dorrien practically took affairs in his own
hands at one point and fought like
Just here the figure of the French cavalry-
general Sordet comes into the picture. There
were strange word-of-mouth stories about
Sordet in London for a day or two, and then
they died away. Nobody knew where they
came from. It was said he refused his aid
when he could well have given it, on an
absurd plea that his horses were tired; that
he practically cold-footed; that he had a
Hun wife; that he was one cause of the Mons
disaster; that Kitchener dashed across in
person to inquire about things, and so on v
For a minute or so Sordet looked like being"
a scapegoat.
French reports that he personally sent to
Sordet, who had been putting up. a tre-
mendous rear-guard fight to cover the retreat
of his own army, appealing to him to come
over and help the British retreat. The reply
was that he couldn’t shift from one army to
another without orders from his own com-
mander, but he would come if possible. At
the same time he pointed out that liis division
was a very battered and worn affair. This
was apparently the basis of the cold-
feet story. Very soon Sordet did arrive,
found the British in an exceedingly tight
place, and threw his own force and d’Amade’s
most valiantly into the breach. French gives
full credit to Sordet in his book, and explains
that he didn’t do him full justice in his de-
spatch “written in September” because he
didn’t then know this episode of August 26.
In those days the British army was very
small —merely the Old Contemptibles. The
battlefield wasn’t a very big one to keep an
eye Upon, and the situation which Sordet
helped to save was a very desperate one. Yet
the commander-in-chief was either so far
away from or so badly informed about this
particularly bad spot that days afterwards he
didn’t even know the name of the man who
had materially helped to save it!
If French’s personal movement-backward
was rather hurried and confused, two very
big men who were liable to know about it
were Smith-Dorrien and Sordet —the former
certainly, as he got his orders from French ;
the latter probably, from personal observa-
tion. Some men of the good hating variety
don’t feel happy towards others who have
seen, them in a time of flurry and mismanage-
ment. Smith-Dorrien could have bricks
thrown at him with impunity, for the rules
of the service would prohibit him giving back-
chat to his superior. Sordet, not _ being
French’s officer, might be in a position to
object and be a person therefore to be molli-
fied. Anyhow, the British general gets a
bad time all through the book, _ while the
French one is complimented as if he. were
a comely flapper :
A very quiet, undemonstrative, spare little figure
of at least 60 years of age. He appeared hard and
fit and showed no sign of the tremendous strain he
had already undergone. On the contrary, he was
smart and dapper and looked like the lightweight
horseman he is. His clear-cut face and small regular
features denoted descent from the old noblesse, and
he struck me in his bright tunic as one who might
be most fittingly imaged in a piece of old Dresden
china ; but added to all this was the bearing of a
cavalry commander. His. manner was courteous in
the extreme, but he showed inflexible firmness and
determination.... He promised to do all in his
power to help me, and, as my story will presently
show, he kept his word splendidly.
After these compliments to his courage, his
good looks, his politeness, his clothes, his
high descent and the way he carried his
years, Sordet (or his executors) could hardly
be unfriendly. But as for Smith-Dorrien, he
might have had a face like an earthenware
teapot, and dressed in old potato-sacks and
looked as if he was descended from a terrace
of criminals, for all French says to the con-
trary.
Letters of Two Centuries Ago
Among old light-litterateurs Lady ..Mary
Wortley Montagu will never be quite out
of date. She is for ever reminding us of
some problems of our own. Writing of Ger-
man diplomatic society at Ratisbon in 1716,
she said :—•
The ladies are not wanting, on their side, in
cherishing and improving these important piques,
which divide the town almost into as many parties
as there are families, and they choose rather to suffer the
mortification of sitting almost alone on their assembly
nights than to recede one jot from their pretensions.
....The foundation of these everlasting disputes
turns entirely upon place and the title of Excellency,
which they all pretend to, and, what is very hard,
will give it to nobody. For my part, I could not
forbear advising them to give the title of Excellency
to everybody, which would include receiving it from
everybody.
W. S. Gilbert probably had Lady Mary’s sug-
gestion in mind when he wrote “The Gondo-
(Continued on page 24.)


w aae
Other Tea Sets, handsomely Silver-plated,
In plain design. Teapot, 2-pint size. Set
ot 3 pieces £5/5/-
Richly - engraved
Hot Water Kettle,
of very attractive design,
2-pint size. Silver-plated
bn Britannia Metal.
95/-
Hot Water Jug', Silver-
plated on Britannia
Metal, Size 1£ Pint, 45/-
A Tea and
Coffee Set
is a Gift that will quite
win the heart and carry
remembrance for many
years. A handsome set,
matching the Coffee Pot
here shown (CXIV), con-
sists of 4 pieces, heavily
Silver-plated on Nickel
Silver. Teapot, 2-pint
size, £9/15/- set.
Many charming Sets at
equally good values.
CX234.
Flower
Stands
in a diversity of charming
designs. This one is at-
tractively wrought, Silver-
plated, and fitted with,
Iridescent Glass Vases. i
Price 60/-
This Handsome
Teapot
is heavily Silver-plated on Britannia
Metal —2-pint size. It features a
quaint design of charming simplicity,
and will find favor with the taste that
is discriminating Price 40/-
Also,
Tea and Coffee Sets, in Plain
and richly-engraved designs. Silver-
plated, £7-/15/-, £B/15/-,
£lO/10/-, £l2.
CX79.
Or a Cruet
too, for that part of it
forms a Gift that is ever
acceptable. The illustra-
tion depicts (0X79), a
Dinner Cruet of excep-
tional merit. Silverplated
on Nickel Silver, with 4
Out Glass Bottles.. 55/-
When you give
a Biscuit Barrel
Yqu. combine the useful with
the ornamental. There is a
wonderful array of designs to
choose from. This Oak
Biscuit Barrel (CXI37)
is of excellent quality and
finished in a manner betoken-
ing mastercraft. The Mounts
are Silver-plated on Nickel Sil-
ver 32/6
CXI37.
Another
Suggestion
—is a Butter
Dish. This one
(CXIO6) is Silver-
plated on Nickel
Silver, and. fitted.
with clear Crystal
Glass 25/-
A range of . very
effective designs to
choose from, at
various prices.
-V
C4^
.v
y
ae
w
Light
on the
Gift Problem
fs
NTHONY HORDERNS’
will simplify for you
the somewhat perplexing
question of “what to give.”
A leisurely survey of the magnificent
Christmas Displays—a glance over the
pages of the illustrated Christmas
Catalogue—either will prove a wonder-
ful inspiration in selecting the ideal Gift
—suggesting the “Something” that is
useful, pleasingly appropriate, and
within reach of one’s means.
Best of all—
in purchasing the Gift at Anthony Horderns’ you
honor the recipient with Quality!
Have you written for the Free Christmas Catalogue?
A Bargain.
This is a special line of
Australian hand-
embossed, Art Leather
Handbags. In brown
leather, with laced
edges, full gusset and
button-flap fastener.
Inside pocket. Dainty
design on side, featur-
ing the W a r a ta h,
Kookaburra and Christ-
mas Bells.
Special value, 9/11
Ask for Handbag 88.
The Useful Handbag
is always appreciated, and may be ob-'
tained in styles that are novel and pretty.
The Bridge Bag is shown here. It is
Silk-knitted throughout, and finished with
Electro-plated Chain and Kings.
Various shades, 20/-
Others.
Pretty Kodak Shape, in Morocco, with inner pocket, and
lined in Poplin Price 23/-
Electro-plated Vanity Purse, attractively lined with Blue-
Silk. Assorted shapes and sizes. Splendid quality.
12/6, 16/6, 17/6 and 20/-
Imitation Morocco Handbag, of fine grain, with Repp-
lining. Centre pocket and side catch .... Good value, 6/6
CXIO6. Gtgste®*
DAINTY HANDKERCHIEFS.
are always acceptable. A wonderful
variety for choice at the Big 1 Store.
02 (as illustrated) — Irish Lawn,
excellent quality, pretty colored
borders .. .... 5/3 Half Doz.
O 2.
A Pretty
Bracelet Watch
is a delightful Gift. There is a choice
array of distinctive designs- to select
from.
Solid Gold Keyless Expand-
ing Bracelet Watches (simi-
lar to illustration), fully jewelled,
accurate and reliable timekeepers.
Prices from £5/5/- upward.
IHWku,
k
I
0800 —— Superior
Quality Lawn
H a ndkerchiefs,
hemstitched, colored
bordefr, and pretty
Swiss embroidered
colored design in
corner, assorted pat-
terns.
4/9 Half Doz.
fzagp
GIFTS FOR MEN.
The Christmas Catalogue contains a host of
suggestions—Fashion Shirts, Ties, Collars, Card
Cases, Shaving' Outfits, Smoking Requisites, etc.,
etc. Here is an instance of the good values: —
Men’s Crepe Dressing Gowns, a choice variety of
block stripe designs, and finished with self reverse collar
and cuffs 16/6 each.
Real Silk Knitted Ties —Plain Black.
6/6, 7/6, 8/6, 9/6
Fancy designs 6/9, 7/6
Shaving Sets, Solid Nickel, Bevelled Mirror, Opal-lined
Bowl and Brush 18/6
Two Military Brushes, in Solid Leather Oval Case,
with small Comb 17/6 upwards.
Gold Sleeve Dinks, in many new and distinctive pat-
terns ";,..'. 14/6 upwards.
The Ideal Gift—
A Sewing Machine.
Probably no Gift could bring greater pleasure or
prove so useful to the average woman. The
“White” Sewing Machine represents the
supreme attainment in modern sewing-machine con-
struction. It embraces a number of exclusive
features, which provides better and more rapid work
with less effort, simplifying operations and produc-
ing beautiful results. Artistically finished in Golden
Oak or Walnut. Free, complete set of steel at-
tachments with each Machine.
PRICES:
No. 74v., with 2 Drawers £9/3/6
No. 75v. (as illustrated), with 4 Drawers,
£9/12/6
No. 77v., with 6 Drawers £lO/12/6
No. 72v., handsome Cabinet Model £l2
i, ,!/
2iS=2-&*fs
PICCANINNIES’ PARADISE.
At Anthony Horderns’ is one of the Outstanding
Events of the Christmas Season. Dear old Santa pre-
sides with all his old enchantment over his domain
on the second floor, where there are
Toys in Profusion.
A large number of these well-made and dependable
Toys are faithfully reproduced in the Christmas
Catalogue.
Rocking Horses, Motor Express Waggons, Trolleys,
Automobiles, Tricycles, Scooters, Skipping Ropes,
Boys’ Reins, Prams, Go-Carts, Swings, Outdoor
Games, Indoor Games, Garden Sets, Seaside Sets,
Railways, Ships, Toy Carpenter Outfits, Mechanical
Toys, Puzzles, Dolls’ Furniture, etc., etc.
Write for a Free Copy.
Anthony Hordern & Sons Ltd
605 Brickfield Hill, SYDNEY.
8 C*


Splendid for the Holiday
%
'W
■s
mm
fi M
Ideal as a Gift—
A KODAK
You will never forget your holiday if you
take a Kodak record of places and events
of interest. Make the forthcoming holiday
a Kodak holiday, and your Kodak picture-
album will be a source of happiness for
years to come.
Give a Kodak as a gift, and so assure similar
pleasure to the recipient. Give Brownies to
the children.
The No. 1 a Autograph ic Kodak Junior is splendidly
suitable as a gift—takes pictures 2| x 4{ inches. Price 707-
Other Kodak prices from 40/- to £lB.
The No. 3 Box Brownie is a fine Camera—makes
i-plate pictures, 3\ x4£ inches. Price 23/6. Other Box
Brownies from 10/6.
ASK FOR THE NEW KODAK CATALOGUE.
Of all Kodak dealers and
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.
379 George Street, Sydney ; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne; 250-252 Queen Street, Brisbane;
The Valley; 37 Bundle Street, Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart; Ruthven Street, Toowoomba;
“treet, Townsville; Denham Street, Rockhampton; Optical and Photo Supplies Co., Perth;
ni•^ l^ n . Wellington, N.Z. (Wholesale) ; “The Kodak Corner,” corner Lambton Quay
*na Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z. (Retail) ; 3 Lome Street, Auckland, N.Z. (Wholesale) ; 76 Stuart
Street, Dunedin, N.Z. (Wholesale) ; 148 Lichfield Street, Christchurch, N.Z. (Wholesale).
Music that reflects the holiday spirit
Hot sultry days when no one feels inclined to touch the piano may yet be made glad with happy music.
The home that comes under the magic spell of “His Master’s Voice” possesses a never-failing source of delightful,
perfectly-reproduced vocal and instrumental music.
Let this wonderful instrument and these perfect records make Christmas glad in YOUR home.
“His Master’s Voice
is obtainable in all styles and sizes from the magnificent cabinet instruments for the drawing-room to the portable
sizes for the week-end camp.
Hear these new records just issued—at your music-sellers. Note the full tone, the exquisite mellowness,
the freedom from shrillness.
COMPLETE OPERATIC SETS.
CAVALLERIA RUSTICANA—CompIete in Album. . £4
RA TRAVIATA „ „ „ . . 5
IL PAGLIACCI . . 4
0 0
15 0
3 0
RIGOLETT O—Complete in Album £6
THE MIKADO ~ „ „ 5
MERRIE ENGLAND „ „ „ 5
SELECTED HOLIDAY RECORDS.
81016 —Smiles.
Helen of Troy (“As You Were”).
SAVOY QUARTET —Vocalist,
JOE WILBUR.
Cffll —The Jazz Nightmare—Jazz One-Step.
Max in a (Hound J>ance).
MAYFAIR DANCE ORCHESTRA.
04010—Sweet and Low.
PERCEVAL ALLEN. EDNA THORN-
TON, JOHN HARRISON & ROBERT
RADFORD.
02585 —Ingemisco (“Requiem Mass”).
CARUSO.
03363—01 d Folks at Home.
MADAME MELBA.
02397—The Lost Chord (in English).
CARUSO.
03092 —Old Folks at Home.
MADAME CALVE.
03283—My Ain Folk.
MADAME CLARA BUTT.
03371—John Anderson, My Jo.
MADAME MELBA.
03399—G0d Shall Wipe Away all Tears (“The
Fight of the World”).
MADAME CLARA BUTT.
022226—N0w Fet Us Depart (Church hymn).
CHALIAPIN, with Chorus.
02472—Ave Maria (“Hail, Mary”).
CARUSO and ELMAN.
2-3042—Harvest.
MADAME KIRKBY LUNN.
4-2221—The Rosary.
JOHN McCORMACK.
BB62—Sweet Christmas Bells.
Christmas Bells.
MINSTER CHOIR (con. by Mr. Vivian
Bennetts).
Complete record lists and name of nearest accredited dealer on request.
&/>e GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.
“Ills Master# Voice”
Re.gd. Trade-mark.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney
“GRA MOPJWNE”
Regd. Trade-mark.
•‘IN A PERSIAN GARDEN.”
Song Cycle, by LIZA LEHMANN.
Eight Records in magnificently illustrated
Album.
All records by famous artistes under
direction of the composer.
£3.
m
* ■
'/A
mmbi
m


0.
For Kiddies
If you have trouble in giving
your little ones an opening medicine
when they need it, try them next
time with Pinkettes. This new laxa-
tive is gentle and pleasant and will
be taken readily by all children.
They correct the stomach ailments
of children; are a good laxative in
feverishness and given when there
are signs of a cold coming on, are a
good thing to disperse it.
1/- per bottle at all dealers.
Write for free trial sample
n.cntioning “The Bulletin.’
The Dr. Williams' Medicine Co.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Where to Stay when Visiting Sydney
Cronulla Beach Hotel.
Direction Cronulla Hotel, Ltd.
Healthy, Invigorating SURFING Resort.
Tel., Kogarah 19. Week-ends a Specialty.
J. A. GRANT, Manager.
fxrfm SMmm
253
mm
®veE
NAMES
The Best You Can Get
for Marking Linen
Whether Household or Personal —en-
sures your property against loss. Any
Name woven into a Fine Cambric Tape
in Fast Color. Always ready to be sewn
to any garment or article on any material
Prices— I2doz. 4/6, 6doz. 3/3, ?doz. 2/3
Sold by All Best Drain rs
Made in Australia by
J. & J. CASH Pty. Ltd.,
85 Cubitt St., Richmond, Vic.
Write for Sti, le Book
' 873
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JAIiItAII and Tasmanian Hard*
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
TINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
6Si PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the wo 1 ’ !.
■
1
tea
2*
e
COMMUNITY PLATE
I patbicianl
As dainty as she and as beautiful. You
knew she would like it—a whole case of
COMMUNITY PLATE-that high grade
SILVER PLATED CUTLERY. She
delights in the designs of those old masters
—Adam, Sheraton and Hepplewhite—its
wonderful quality, and its guarantee of 50
years service, knowing too, that NO COM-
MUNITY PLATE designs are duplicated
in the other qualities.
An additional overlay of pure silver reinforc s
spoons and to: ks at the base of the bowl, thus douh
ling the life and ensuring durability. Services of
COMMUNITY PLATE may be obtained at prices
ranging from £5 to £5O.
On sale at the leading shops.
Oneida Community Limited
The Banking House, 228 Pitt St., Sydney
Established 1848, Incorporated 1881,Oneida, N.Y., U.S.A.
Also makers of Oneida Community Reliance Plate
(Guaranteed 25 years)
Oneida Community Par Plate IGuaran'.eed 10 years)
I mvav i
/VD-C.
AROMATIC
am
WJTIUII l« UOTMUA
NaMM Ks*t4*n fr«in.
•uhtM | to*cr«f« tfMkirt
« I*l d §wn\*t4
9m*y.
fRomieTOM
fMAdßuuMtofluorr
43*7
CO
BBM
AROMATIC
am
HHI
A Beverage of Guaranteed Purity,
Distilled from finest Australian Grain.
ALL HOI ELS and LICENSED GROCERS
Mli
r.
m
m
............
fjrt’
:VV
SET
Make Your Hats
Live Again,
Give them fresh life and beauty. Do them
over in any shade—permanent, pretty shades
without a varnished appearance. Ask at
any store for
GAINSBOROUGH
Straw Hat Colors.
Get the Merry
Bleacho Boys
Busy on Your
Straw Hat.
Your last season's straw or
panama will 'look like new
after Bleacho has been used
on it. One packet will do
several hats. Try it to-day.
BLEACHO
Sold in Packets Everywhere.
D
juft
Wkm
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Lilith.
Tyrant and Queen immortal,
Teacher and slave,
Waiting at manhood’s portal,
Smiling o’er boyhood’s grave;
Cheeks than the lilies paler,
Lips that are fire —
What though the mothers that bore
us assail her?
Lilith shall spell desire!
Fragrant with scent of spices.
Cloying as nard;
Mouth that repels, entices,
Eyes that are soft and hard ;
Wiser than all the sages,
Cruel and sw r eet,
Children have come to her pale
through the ages,
Fainting to kiss her feet.
Temple that shrines strange blisses,
Ardors unguessed;
Youth cannot warm with kisses
The marble that is her breast.
Vendor of cold caresses,
Feverish joys,
By night, as of old, shall her blood-
dyed tresses
Chain the fair limbs of boys.
Queen of the midnight revel,
Languid and gay;
Woman and witch and devil,
Our sons for your pleasures pay.
With barren joys you fill them ;
Trembling, they sue;
Smiling, you take them, caress them
and kill them,
Lilith the Hebrews knew!
VICTORIA.
HARRISON OWEN.
Invitation to the Road.
Philippa, hark to that reedy note!
It never came from a feathered throat.
It’s Pan with the pipes at his bearded lips
Calling “Philippa, Philippa, burn your ships !
Come with your lover alone to-day
Over the hills and far away!
“Philippa, come to the dappled wood
Before its laurels are cut for good,
Or ever the skylark of youth is flown—
Bird-in-hand’s better than Bird-alone,
And the only tune that the Panpipes play
Is ‘Over the hills and far away.' ”
Curled in my heart like a small, sweet snak-;
I feel the Romany urge awake.
New-found love, though your eyes are blue
Well I know you are gipsy, too!
We’ll mount and ride through the golden day
Over the hills and far away.
We’ll ride at ease through the gold of noon
Till dusk floats up with the golden moon
Hung like a lamp in a lilac tree
A light for lovers like you and me,
Till the love-tide ebbs, and we sink to sleep
On a bed of bracken spread wide and deep,
To wmke and ride at the dawn of day
Over the hills and far away
N.vS.W.
P. F. BIRKETT.
Hannah’s House.
Beneath a walled-in strip of sky
The river runs, a silver gut,
And mumbles as it passes by
The door of Hannah’s little hut.
Black forest clambers up the hill
And on the brow of yonder crag
Burnt branches stand erect and still,
Like antlers of a gazing stag.
When first to Hannah’s house I came,
Sad after rioting and sin,
I could not miss her eyes’ quick flame
Or the warm splendor of her skin.
I loved to watch her body’s sway,
The sensuous movement of her hips.
And Hannah had the loving way.
With clasping hands and clinging lips.
Strong men were there, and every one
Was crazed for Hannah’s smile and word ;
I scented battles half begun
For me, the lone stag of the herd.
My hand was hard, my mouth was shut,
What time I faced the blue-eyed Dane;
I knew that Hannah in the hut
Was watching through the window-pane.
And ever when a jealous day
Made Hannah’s love a bloody prize,
The keen black panther watched the fray
With savage and with narrowed eyes.
The mill has gone, the river gut
Winds on to empty in the sea;
Dead peace reigns now in Hannah's hut,
For no one envies her to me.
MAORILAND.
D. M. R.
Epitaph.
Here lie the bones of one that loved the
Spring,
And the Summer song the green cicadas
sing;
And new-mown grass; the great moon on
the wane;
Quiet branches dropping jewels after rain;
Swift movement and the hands of friends;
and trees.
Here lie the bones of one that loved all
these.
Oh. as you go who still have joyous limbs,
And eyes to see how earth in color swims,
And ears to hear the thrush adore the morn.
Pass not these bones with slow step and
forlorn
And thoughts of darkness and of death’s dis-
may.
Sing “Tira-lira, how the world is gay!”
That one may know, who loved them ere you
came,
Life is as splendid, earth is still the same.
N.S.W.
NINA MURDOCH.


THE TOOL-ROOM & ITS
All who are familiar with the methods of production demanded by modern
conditions know that the tool-room is an important unit in any manufacturing
scheme, and that on its efficiency the profitable running of a plant is, to a large
extent, dependent.
A manufacturing plant consists mainly of capstan and turret lathes, auto-
matic machines for bar and chuck work, milling machines, drilling machines and
grinding machines.
These tools cannot be run efficiently unless facilities are provided for
supplying the special tools, jigs and fixtures which they use. It is therefore
essential that a tool-room should be installed, having the plant necessary for the
actual production of these articles, in addition to the accommodation and
machinery which is required for their storage and maintenance.
Having had over 20 years’ experience with one of the largest manufacturers
of these tools, jigs and fixtures which are required in all manufacturing plants,
we are in a position to give reliable advice on the equipment and operation of
tool-rooms, either large or small. .
We supply the tool-room plant itself, lathes, milling machines, shapers,
drilling machines and grinders, and also the drills, taps, reamers, gauges and fine
tools which are used either in the tool-room or in the main machine-shop.
ENQUIRIES ARE SOLICITED.
SPECIALTIES.
Horizontal Milling Machines.
Vertical Milling Machines.
Capstan Lathes.
Combination Turret Lathes.
Hexagon Turret Lathes.
Automatic Turning Machines.
Ball-bearing Drills.
Coventry Self-opening Dielieads
Coventry Concentric Chucks.
Coventry Collapsing Taps.
Baush Multiple Spindle Drills.
Brown Bevel Gear Sliapers.
Carpenter Taps and Dies.
Pollard Heavy Duty Drills.
Photostat Copying Machines.
Wadkin Mills Universal Woodworking
Machines.
Dorman Tapping Attachments.
Fellows Gear Shapers.
Gardner Crank Pin Turning Machines.
Heald Grinding Machines.
Pratt Chucks.
Jackson Die Sinkers.
Keller Die Sinkers.
Maiden Screwing Machines.
Garvin Milling Machines.
Dodge & Shipley Lathes.
Lumsilen Grinders.
Moback Machine Vices.
Norton Grinding Machines.
Queen City Shaping Machines.
E. G. Herbert Hack Sawing Machines.
Rotoflain Hardening Furnaces.
Eternite Case-hardening Compound.
Scriven Shipyard Machinery.
Taft Pierce Tool Room Specialties.
Tangye’s Heavy Machine Tools.
Van Norman Combination Mills.
Worcester Drill Grinders.
Willard Eathes.
Wrigley’s Small Tools.
CHAS E. YOUNG
Sole Agent for
ALFRED HERBERT LTD
Machine Tool Makers and Importers. Coventry, England,
Telephones: City 10109, 10110.
Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Lathe,” Sydney.
Codes Used: ABC, Lieber’s, Western Union and Private.
57 GEORGE STREET NORTH, CIRCULAR QUAY, SYDNEY.
FLIES !
And How to KILL THEM !
USE
INSECTIBANE
(Mind the Spelling).
No other powder possesses the qualities which make INSECTIBANE so
peculiarly efficacious.
Though so deadly to insect life in all forms, INSECTIBANE may be
sprinkled freely about, as it is harmless to men and animals.
The high quality of INSECTIBANE is maintained and THE PRICE HAS
NOT BEEN RAISED.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS and STORES.
J
-•IPrS
1
S 3
J 77
EE
r*as
%
#*
IN
5T S
BACON VEAV I
-~!£t?ngue.. J
rnKnTlltliimuiMiMi imiimihirnnniTl
A
Merry Christmas
is made merrier i / von are freed of food
worries. There will be no fresh meat for
two days, but your grocer has plenty of
“Rex” Camp Pie
and there is nothing more tasty than this
compounded meat. It is ready to serve
from the tin, even to a thick jelly.
If a picnic is arranged for Boxing Day
you may slice “Rex" Camp Pie thin for
Sandwiches, or take along a whole tin and
let the guests help themselves.
Serve it with Salad and you
have a fine appetising meat
course that everyone erioys.
Get a good supply in for the holidays.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
FOGGITT, JONES & COMPANY, LIMITED
Packers of "Rex" Pure Food Products
Outers of ,f ßex” Hams and Bacon
MOTOR
'■■l
A Word to the Wise:—
Let your
XMAS
be an
“ESSEXMAS.”
If not this year, do not repeat the over-
sight, but book your order early in the
new year for one of these delightful
cars. The ESSEX is a light car built
in the HUDSON factory alongside the
famous “Super-Six.” The engine is 1 Bh.p.
R.A.C., and develops fifty-two brake-
horsepower.
■ m ■
Dalg'ety &, Company Limited
136 Pbillip Street, Sydney.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspapei.
Vol. 40.—N0. 2079.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 18, 1919.
Pbice 6d.
[Norman Lindsay, Springwood, N.S.W.]
CRUCIFIED.
THE THIRD THIEF: “What! Nail up the other two? Not me! They’ve got votes.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
’‘Australia fur the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £ 1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have The Bulletin
sent regularly to you every week for a year, to any
ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
'The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3009 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
•will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Bui
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it ivill be understood that
the ropy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Tim Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance, Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail , from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and IK. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London, E.C.-i.
South Africa.- — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg ; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., Mil Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
C.B.A.— N. IVlieatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; J.
Roland Kay Co., 181)9 Conway Buildings, Chicago,
U.S.A.; Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington,
U.S.A.; Bretano’s, Fifth Avenue mid 27th Street, New
York.
Honolulu. —Fisher News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Iloung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon.- —-IF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; It. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Kulamadan.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
Hint., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise; Boz., lid.; Bioz. to 10oz., Sd.:
lOoz. to 120 z.. Sid.; elsewhere, ioz., lid., and id. each
additional 2oz.
NOTICE UNDER THE ELECTORAL LAW.
For any unsigned matter in this paper for
which a signature is required under the
Commonwealth electoral law, S. H. Prior, 214
George Street, Sydney, accepts the responsi-
bility.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 18, 1919.
ABOUT KEEPING FRICK AND
SUPPORTING COATS.
Frick, the United States steel “king,” is
dead, leaving a fortune of £30,000,000, which
is a terrible amount of money for one man
not to be able to take away with him. At
the same time it must be remembered that,
though Frick owned all that money in the
United States, he didn’t make nearly all of
it out of the people of the United States. A
vast amount was made by selling steel at
high prices, and latterly at utterly out-
rageous war prices, to lazy or ignorant or
incompetent or unfortunate countries which
didn’t supply themselves—unfortunate coun-
tries like Belgium and France and Italy,
which were desolated by invasion and had to
suspend work to a great extent, and incom-
petent ones like Australia, which devote
themselves to raising surplus wheat on inhos-
pitable soil with the help of a Government
guarantee, and to building loan railways that
aren’t wanted. The land of Washington
and Lincoln is an enormous seller abroad
of the things that people like Frick pro-
duce. A recent return for one year showed,
so far as the dollar can be turned into fluc-
tuating British money, between £250,000.000
and £300,000,000 worth of U.S. iron and steel
exported, about £14,000.000 worth of elec-
trical machinery. £15.000,000 worth of brass-
ware, over £60,000,000 worth of copper-
ware, £90.000,000 worth of explosives and
many sundries. The United States code con-
tains rigid laws to prevent combinations of
Fricks looting their own people too heavily m
these and other matters, but it also contains
a vigorous law to help them to loot outsiders
--Australians and the like—to the last rag
and the last widow’s mite. Frick, taking
him as a sample rather than as an indi-
vidual, did these services to his country :
(1) He supplied it with the goods it required,
and thus saved it from being plundered by Fricks
abroad as Australia is plundered, and thus falling
into debt to aliens and being enslaved by chains of
interest through uncounted generations.
(2) He brought vast sums into the country, and
the fraction that stuck to his fingers was nothing
compared with the amount which spread among the
people. Like Cjesak he brought captives home
“whose ransoms did the general coffers fill.” The
indemnity which the Allies faintly hope to collect
from the Hun isn’t a circumstance to that which
Frick and others in his business collected abroad for
the general coffers in 20 years or so without any fuss.
(3) He was an enormous payer of taxes to the
U.S. Federal, State and municipal Governments.
That is to say, Australians and their sort paid
enormous U.S. taxes through Frick. Probably twice
as much as he made out of the people of the United
States went back to them during his lifetime in
taxes alone, and his fortune only represented part
of the profits made out of us and people like us,
the nation of Uncle Sam having got the rest. Cer-
tainly if 10 per cent, profit on the iron and steel
exports of the U.S. for a single year had stuck to
the “King’s” fingers it would have accounted for his
entire pile. He was, with the blessing and help of
the law, the United States’ energetic tax and tribute
collector all over the world.
(4) And when Frick died, he not being a loafing
duke with estates and traditions to keep up and
loafing baby dukes to provide for, the great fortune
dissipated. Over £20,000,000 goes to promote edu-
cation, to help the poor, and otherwise give his
country a leg-up—partly at our expense. The rest
scatters in various ways.
• * * *
About the time that the news of Frick’s
fortune came to hand the great Coats firm
of British profiteers was issuing an explana-
tion. Its profit of £4,000,000 for a single
year, even after paying enormous war profits
and other taxes, drew to it a lot
of hostile attention So it is explained
that only £370,000 of the £4,000,000 profit
was made out of the people of Great Britain
and Ireland—that the other £3,630,000 profit
and all the millions paid to the British Gov-
ernment in taxes were made out of incom-
petent folk like the Australians, who devote
themselves to growing surplus wheat for a
pittance and building loan railways, and de-
pend on outsiders for the commonest neces-
saries of life. The statement may be true.
There were and are some laws in Britain
against too much local robbery, and there
were possibilities of local strike and breakage
of the premises if the local extortions were
too outrageous. But Australia had no pro-
tection, unless it started to manufacture for
itself, against Coats’s prices, or any other
outside robbery, and a brick wouldn’t carry
far enough from here to break Coats’s win-
dows. Coats was an enormous collector of
taxes for the British Government in Aus-
tralia and elsewhere —very much more a tax
collector than a gatherer of profit for British
shareholders. And Australia was a payer
under both headings.
* * * *
There are drawbacks about great, affluent
captains of industry like Frick and Coats,
but what Australia requires to learn is
that it is a thousand times better to have
the captains than not to have the industry.
The crudest and most Juddy or Brookfield-
ish kind of politician can prevent monopoly
among our own people by having nothing in
the country worth monopolising; can pre-
vent sweating by haying no trades to sweat
at; and can avert millionaires by not having
millions except £700,000,000 or £800,000,000
of foreign debts, and some millions of un-
secured paper money. A brawling degener-
ate or anarchist or wild aboriginal could
achieve tlfat much. In fact, a dog could
do it. But it is a matter calling for the
highest intelligence—not the lowest, tub-
thumping intelligence—to have the Coats
and Frick industries with the wealth and
self-reliance and national safety which they
imply and to have them without the burden
of Coats and Frick. If they can’t be had
without that burden, then it is better to
have them with it than not to have them at
all. Australia possesses a weird school of
politicians who preach liberty and set them-
selves, directly and indirectly, by strikes,
and go-slow policies, and by constant
threats of confiscation, to discourage Aus-
tralian private industry lest the millionaire
captain of industry should grow out of it.
Yet they are pathetically futile and lax and
unsuccessful in promoting public industry;
in fact, they persecute it more furiously than
they do the private sort by railway strikes,
shipbuilding strikes, State coal-mine strikes
and every other device. Their one idea is
to borrow money from outside captains of
finance and spend it in buying goods from
foreign captains of industry. Australia has
its millionaires—more of them than any other
country of such small population—but they
are outside the range of its high wages and
short hours and good working conditions and
anti-extortion laws. They pay taxes to out-
side Governments when our treasuries want
these taxes badly, and the names of two of
them are Coats and Frick. No Laborite
of the Judd or Brookfield school, no Ryan
or Catts or Storey dare attack them
seriously, for that would raise a question
which is far beyond the tub-thumping in-
telligence—the question of creating huge
local industries and making them pay. To
make them pay is essential; for a Coats
industry which lost £4,000,000 a year instead
ox making it would be more than the loan
market could stand, and a Frick industry
with a £30,000,000 deficit instead of a
£30.000.000 fortune would be terrible. Aus-
tralia has avoided the local profiteer so
successfully by having its profiteers abroad
that its effort in the way of annexing up to
80 ner cent, of the loot produced, at best.
£2,500,000 in a year. That was achieved
by taxing all profits made during war-time
in excess of profits made before—not profits
made out of the war, nor unjust or exces-
sive profits, but just profits. Britain, tax-
ing in a milder fashion, made £285.000.000
in a year. On a population basis Aus-
tralia’s return should have been £31,000.000
instead of less than a twelfth of that sum ;
but, then. Coats isn’t here to be taxed,
neither for that matter is (or was) Frick.
THE SHIFTLESS GOLDEN GIANT.
The question really arises whether Westra-
lian Governments do not acquire deficits of
set purpose and with malice aforethought,
having a definite and very mean object in
view. The shortages at Perth have become
a record, also a scandal, and the way they
are brought about is a scandal also. Here
they are all in a row like crows on a fence
watching a carcase (figures from Knibbs) :
Westralian Deficit per
deficits. inhabitant.
£ £ s. d.
1911- .. .. 134,409 9 2
1912- .. .. 190,404 12 5
1913- .. .. 135,411 S 0
1914- .. .. 565,817 1 15 0
1915- .. .. 348,223 1 1 11
1916- .. .. 699,757 2 5 4
1917- .. .. 705,743 2 5 7
1918- . . .. . 652,014 2 1 7
Expected. About.
1919- . . . . 593,349 1 17 6
These are astonishing figures; in fact, until
the Ryan Government got into its stride in
Queensland there had been no peace budgets
like them in Australia, though the Federal
war budgets were startling enough. But the
Treasurer at Perth assumes a detached atti-
tude and says it isn’t proposed to introduce
any new taxation, but to trust to luck —
that luck which took its departure at June,
1911, and hasn’t been back since: for the
occasional slight diminution of shortage arose
solely from economy in expenditure, and
some of that economy was effected by charg-
ing items to loans which were previously
charged to revenue. The difficulty arises to
a great extent out of the fact that the West-
ralian now pays less taxes per head than
any other man in the Commonwealth and
has long paid less than the average, whereas
his record debt called for more than the
average. How much less he paid than some
other Australians this comparison shows: —
Taxes in Taxes in
Westralia Tasmania
per head. per head. Difference.
£ s. d. £ s. d. £ s. d.
1911- .. 1 3 11 1 15 2 11 3
1912- .. 158 1 15 0 94
1913- .. 14 1 116 10 12 9
1914- . .. 1 3 0 1 16 6 13 6
Queensland.
1915- .. 158 229 17 1
1916- .. 161 269 108
Tasmania.
1917- .. 191 2 12 6 135
Queensland.
1918- (about) 1 10 9 409 2 10 0
Both Westralia and Tasmania receive some
special cash aid from the Commonwealth,
but in the case of the latter it is aid to a
very small State which suffered greatly
through diversion of trade and which has
taxed itself heroically to keep afloat and
repair past blunders. In the case of
Westralia it is a case of giving aid to a
golden giant which had a most expensive
railway built, partly at Tasmania’s loss, to
bring trade to it, and which deliberately
taxes itself on the lowest scale —it has been
at the very bottom of the tax-list for five
years—to make deficits. Between June,
1913, and June, 1915, Westralia actually
reduced its tax income (from 255. 8d to
235.), while every other State showed an
increase. Out of every £lOO which the
giant spent in 1917-18 only £9 14s. sd. was
raised by the dreary process of taxation,
which was about half the average. N. S.
Wales, the next-lowest on the list, raised
£l7 17s. lOd. and Tasmania £35 10s.
* * * *
If the lazy behemoth which had the won-
derful railway given to it had collected taxes
on the highest instead of the lowest scale,
then instead of having eight deficits and an
anticipated deficit in ‘nine years it would
have had. with no better management, five
deficits of much more moderate dimensions,
three surpluses to help to make them good,
and a fourth surplus in view. And while
deliberately making financial trouble in the
present, Westralia is no less assiduous in
preparing trouble for the future. For eight
successive years (1908-9 to 1915-16) it
spent more borrowed money per inhabitant
than any other State —in fact, in 1912-13 it
spent £ll 3s. 7d. per inhabitant, while the
next maddest lunatic spent £5 4s. 6d., or
much less than half. It has bv far the big-
gest debt per head among the States even
when its sinking fund is deducted. And the
money is spent so badly, at least as far as
railways are concerned, that in no State
is there a bigger deficit to be made up out
of general revenue, save in Queensland,
which went raving under Ryan and doesn’t
count among sane institutions. The £369.694
Westralian shortage in 1918-19 (£80,689
more than in the previous year) exceeded
the combined railway deficits of Victoria,
Tasmania and S.A. by £58,000. All this
debt and deficit would be alarming in a
State which was otherwise doing its utmost
and was pressed by necessity. In the case
of a State which deliberately manufactures
deficits by keeping down taxation —which
plants them and waters them and grows
them as choice vegetables—and whose
Government deliberately creates the im-
pression of riding for a fall and a crash
into bankruptcy, it is exasperating as well.
It is almost calculated to make the Com-
monwealth regret that it granted the hefty
mendicant of the West that special ten-
years’ pension beginning with £250,000 in
the first year (1910-11) and diminishing
to £150.000 in the last year, for there is
little satisfaction in helping a State which
does so little to help itself. If any State
gets actually into a. condition of insolvency
it is fairly certain that the others must
come to its assistance per medium of the
Commonwealth, whether the defaulter has
sought insolvency deliberately or arrived
there by honest muddle and misfortune. The
whole fabric of credit is such a lofty and
top-heavy house of cards these days that no
State can be allowed to go on the rocks.
And when the Government of the least-
taxed community in the Commonwealth an-
nounces that there will be another gigantic
hole in the finances and that no attempt will
be made to stop it, the suggestion of pre-
meditated break-down or rather of premedi-
tated passing of its burdens on to its neigh-
bors is disquieting. The subsidy and! the
railway may have left the impression that
these neighbors are an easy mark.
* * * *
Another idea may be to bring pressure
on the public creditor in the matter of sink-
ing funds. Westralia, starting late with its
Constitution, was driven to make a proviso
that all its debts would carry a sinking fund.
The other States, starting business befo’'2
the loan madness was invented, escaped this.
The rulers at Perth have bitterly resented
this scrap of compulsory honesty and sol-
vency, and every time £200.000 or £300.000
was paid into the fund something extraor-
dinary was done in the way of borrowing—
and done so strenuously that last year
Westralia’s debt, after deducting the sinking
fund, was £IIS per head, while Victoria,
which makes very little nretence of a sink-
ing fund, owed only £54 per head. An
earnest show of big deficits might persuade
the creditors to give up the contributions
to the sinking fund under the impression that
the big gold State can’t pay. Unfortunately
the shortages have grown so big through
overdoing the non-taxation policy that even
the stoppage of the sinking fund contribu-
tions won’t nearly meet the case when the
special subsidy, to which hard-pressed States
like S. Australia contribute, comes to an
end, and a mass of the cheap, early loans
have to be renewed at a high figure, and a
lot more unpayable railways are built with
new loans at the present interest rates, and
Ivalgoorlie wears out a little more—when
these things happen the shiftless Golden
Giant will have to get a lot of new habits
or burst. It almost looks as if he intended
to burst for preference, though appearances
may be deceitful.
IRELAND FROM THE OUTSIDE.
Both the British Government and the Irish
Nationalists showed during the Parliament-
ary dispute over the O’Donnell case that
they misunderstood the way Australia looks
at the situation in Ireland. This country’s
feelings were not “outraged,” as Joseph
Devlin opined they would be at the unlucky
padre’s treatment: “outrage”, carries an im-
plication of astonishment, and most Aus-
tralians have lost the capacity to feel sur-
prised at the imbecilities of the English
officers whom the Government selects for
some of the nation’s most delicate jobs. Mem-
bers of the A.I.F. met them by the score at
the different bases. Elaborately genteel, per-
fectly futile, and complacently scornful of
“Colonials,” Yankees and most of the Irish,
Scotch and Welsh, they were the despair of
the best in England of every rank and class.
Minston Churchill seemed anxious to
prove to Australia (meaning really to the
world outside England) that, whatever
errors tactless subordinates might have com-
mitted, yet the heart of Downing-street was
sound; it would not deny even an Irishman
justice. Few Australians who were in Ire-
land during the war will take him seriously.
Ireland struck most of them as a place where
the members of one caste can still steal
horses with impunity while members of the
rival caste are liable to be arrested for look-
ing into the loose-box. A Father O’Donnell
is put under close arrest on suspicion of
having at the worst mildly doubted the
national value of the Sovereign; nothing
happened to the Ulsterite who some time
back put his name and address to the follow-
ing in the Manchester Guardian :
As for our present Royal Family, to tell the
truth we loyalists of Ulster have very little respect
for them. And we have no right. The mother of
our present Sovereign, Alexandra, was a supporter
of the vile separatist policy of Gladstone, and I am
afraid we must place King George and his wife
in the same category. .
Before trying a batch of alleged rebels in
Cork the other day the Judge charged the
Grand Jury in these words:—
The offence is complete if preparations are made
for rebellion or warfare, even though that rebellion
or warfare never takes place.
Sir Edward Carson formed, drilled and
armed whole battalions of rebels in Ulster
when the present Home Rule Act was under
discussion ; he established a hospital to receive
the wounded in the impending clash ; and in
a notorious speech at the Criterion Restau-
rant (London) he said: “I intend, when I
go over there [to Ulster], to break every law
that is possible.” The Irish rebels were
hanged: some of the Anglo-Irish ones became
members of the War Cabinet.
* * # *
et Australians have no time for Sinr,
Fein, and they don’t believe in the dream of
an Irish republic. Neither, probably, do 90
per cent, of the Irish, the latter being hard-
headed people beneath their surface air of
genial irresponsibility, and the possessors of
keen eyes for the main chance. Ireland to-
day is the most prosperous agricultural
country in Europe. Its manufactures are
booming, and they will boom more when con-
ditions are stabilised and the country’s great
river-power is harnessed. It has plenty of
food and it is lightly taxed. Sinn Fein’s
attitude to England is much the same as the
attitude of the I.W.W. here and in America
to capital. “Curse your palliatives,” the
Sinn Feiner hisses—“your 1902 and 1909
Land Acts under which rural Ireland has
become a country of affluent farmer land-
owners ! Curse your concessions under which,
throughout the War, Irishmen were freed
from the grip of the Military Service Act!
Curse also such prosperity as has come to
an agonised country through the pockets of
English taxpayers and tourists! We want,
you to get out.” No sensible worker believes
that his class would be benefited by the with-
drawal from the country of Capital. There
are other ways of dealing with the fabled
oof-bird than by wringing its neck. Similarly
while a few Hibernian Lenins and Trot-
skys might score if England gave up Ireland
as it did the American colonies, thousands
of the rank and file know that they would
be ruined. At the same time as they lost
markets for their goods they would have to
tax themselves exorbitantly for defence on
land and sea. Complete independence is not
worth it at the price, assuming that real free-
dom can be got by less drastic means.
* * * *
There is a vague sympathy in this part of
the world —and probably elsewhere —with
England in its recent efforts to settle the
old Hibernian trouble. Kipling, who hates
Ireland, wrote: —
The sins that ye do by. two and by two
Ye shall pay for one by one.
His own country is paying now for its sins
against Ireland—for a dark career which be-
gan before Cromwell, and which is still
going strong under George. The difference
is that, while in the past the ill-used heroine
of the piece was deliberately starved,
assaulted and disowned, the obvious inten-
tion to-day is to make the honorable amend
to her. England as a nation plainly wants
to do the right thing by Erin, short of com-
mitting suicide to humor her; and it is only
failing through the idiocy of its officials, as
in the O’Donnell case. The opinion of Aus-
tralia —which, broadly, is no different from
that of the rest of the world —will be crys-
tallised for years to come in accordance with
the events of the next few weeks. The
world looks for a combination of reasonable-
ness and courage in all three parties to the


dispute such as the Campbell-Bannerman
Government showed when it decided to give
the Boers self-government. It doesn’t ex-
pect England to agree to separation, which
would be equivalent, strategically, to open-
ing the front door to the world’s burglars.
But it does expect Ireland to be offered the
same national, status as Australia, including
tne power to impose a tariff against English
goods—if the Irish feel like it, which they
probably will not. in view of the fact
that four-fifths of the raw products on
which the Irish manufacturers depend come
from England, and practically all their
exports go there. The Nationalist Irish
( most of whom have in desperation
become temporary Sinn Feiners) are
expected to shelve the remembrance of what
occurred in ’OS, and the Ulsterites to drop
talking about the Boyne Water. The world
is as weary of these ancient grievances as
of a worn-out music-hall song. Australia
has particular cause to be sick of them, hav-
ing a greater population, proportionately, of
people of Irish descent than any country
but Erin itself. A humane audience bears
with the lamentations of the wronged female
S u as there is a stiff-necked refusal on
the part of her oppressor to give her a
reasonable chance. If she goes on lament-
ing after she lias had the cliance, she becomes
what Carlyle once unjustly compared Ire-
land to—a hugging shrew. Will Eng-
land justify itself before the jury of the
world in the Home Rule Bill it'has pro-
nosed “before Christmas”? Will Ireland
forget its old and new wrongs provided the
Ml offers full nationhood inside the British
Empire, and settle down to talk sense and
business as men like Smuts and Botha
i-V ‘ Thnt rather than isolated episodes
like the O’Donnell case is what exercises
the minds of countries such as Australia at
the present time.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Millions and Millions and Millions
of Catts.
“What is this profiteering? I will tell you some
of it. Millions of pounds have been made on coal
during' the war; a million on- sugar, a million on
Kerosene and benzine, millions upon local shipping,
mii/LioNS upon people’s clothes, an enormous amount
of money upon meat, an enormous amount upon
rents, and MILLIONS have been made by the
banks.”— Labor-candidate Oatts.
It is an unhappy fact that in a community
of 5,000,000 people some money must be
“made” by somebody, much as Oatts may
object, if the community is to live. And it
must be made at something tangible such as
the coal or meat business —not by brawling
in Parliament, devising resolutions in favor
of surrender to the Hun and such-like. Oatts,
of course, only speaks as his party speaks,
and he is a hazy representative of a hazy
party. In his sloshing around of MIL-
LIONS he doesn’t say whether these earnings
did or did not represent more than a fair re-
turn on the money invested. (As Australia
is now borrowing at nearly 6 per cent., and
the Oatts party is the most enthusiastic
borrower of all, it seems to be admitted that
some return on money is necessary, and even
the savings banks and the mutual life assur-
ance offices admit it.) lie simply says that
some people made some money by doing
things and that they shouldn’t have done
things and made money. Not having the
courage to face the tariff problem he omits
to mention that the kerosene and benzine
and clothes profiteers and some of the sugar-
profiteers and the great bulk of the shipping
profiteers are outside the country, and can
only be reached if we shut them and their
products out of the country per tariff or
otherwise, and then make the goods inside
the country. The most sky-scraperish and
imposing structure in Sydney is a new ship-
ping office —but it doesn’t belong to any
of the local companies that Catts denounces.
Local companies don’t run to that sort of
grandeur. It is Union and P. and 0., the
two being now more or less identical, and
the Union is a Maoriland concern with
£3,365,610 of capital and reserves, while
the P. and 0. is English with £6.000.000
or £7,000,000. They both trade here and make
profits here, which is reasonable enough if
we won’t do the work ourselves, and com-
pared with them the biggest local concern
(£1,574,610) and the second biggest
(£1,336,240) are very moderate potatoes.
There are very few local shipping concerns,
and the others are still more obscure pota-
toes. But the two enterprising concerns
with the sky-scraper can’t be dealt with by
mere platform-roaring. Neither can the
Orient Co., the gigantic British-India, the
Canadian-Australian. the Oceanic, Blue
Funnel, Aberdeen Line, Eastern and Aus-
tralian. Royal Packet Navigation Co., China-
Australian, Australian-Oriental, American
end Australian, Osaka Sliosen Ivaisha, Nippon
Yusen Kaisha. Federal Steam Navigation.
Federal Shire Line. Ellerman and Bucknall
Co. and others. These (presumably “pro-
fiteers” in the same sense as local concerns)
might be put out of business by the strenu-
ous process of building vessels of our own
to take their places; but they have foreign
Governments behind them which would de-
mand the arrest of Catts if he merely
sooled a mob on to “take over” their pro-
perty. So in his denunciation he carefully
specifies the mere handful of “local” con-
cerns. No Catts has the courage to tell
the people that because of insufficient local
work, or not enough intelligent local work,
we don’t even own our profiteers. They are
imported, like most of Catts’s clothes.
Ninety or 95 per. cent. of our shipping, and
more than one-third of our banking capital,
and more than half our banking reserves,
and half pur public debts of one sort and
another belong to people who have foreign
Governments to argue for them if anything
very startling is done in the way of' “tak-
ing them over” or the like. So are most
of the manufacturers, and all the benzine
and kerosene people and even some of the
sugar people. Apart from a better tariff
and more and better work and less borrow-
ing, all that can be done by the Catts
kind of people is to rouse the unthinking
to fury against the few industries we have,
such as the drought-stricken meat business,
and make the owners sell out, as far as
possible, to foreigners. And how that is
going to do. anything: but *njnrv to this
country and its people Catts doesn’t explain.
[James Edmond, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
The Suppression of Liberty.
At Stawell (Vie.) the other day a Court
decided that Walter Pearson must pay the
amount claimed (£1 2s. 6d.) and £G 6s. 6d.
costs, part of the money being a levy for the
support of the Australian Worker. Labor
papers occupy the amazing position that they
are allowed to haul people before the Courts
and compel them to subscribe, with heavy
costs, even if they don't want the organ and
utterly detest its sentiments or its finance
or its Direct Action or gory revolution
views, or other things about it. If the
Watchman, Freeman’s Journal or the
Banking and Insurance Record asked to
be allowed to blackmail the community for
subscriptions the community would probably
be too stunned for words. The Mullum-
bimby Star never thought of such a thing in
its most inflated moments, nor did the
Australian Soda Fountain Journal. But
when it is done by Labor leaders it seems a
matter of course, for they have acquired
curious privileges. In the beginning it was
enacted that unions might own and run
papers, the idea beinp that papers were
required to advocate union interests. At first
they were plain, honest union organs and
few people objected. But they drifted into
new hands and new ways. A time came
when some of them were apparently bought
by the Kaiser and. run in purely Ilun inter-
ests ; and the fact that the press-agents of
Hun militarists and Ilun aristocrats retained
power to compel people to pay for the dis-
eased ravings began to be oppressive. One
Labor organ, in a moment of enthusiasm,
said _of Australian soldiers who had died
fighting for the workers of Belgium and the
French Republic that they lay
Stiff-limbed, with putrid faces
Turned stinking to the sky.
Fathers whose sons were thus described felt
aggrieved at having to support people who
wrote like that. Yet men must belong to
unions or else be industrial outcasts, and
matters have been so arranged that cash
support to the new degenerates in charge is
a condition of unionism. This will have to
be altered.
♦
Alleged Roll-stuffing in Queensland.
A good deal Ims been said this last month as
to whether Queensland was, or was not, tired
of its Government in 1918, and whether the
Ministerial success at the polls was, or was
not, or might or might not have been,
achieved by roll-stuffing, manufacture of
votes, perjury, fraud and lying. Certain
Oueensland politicians have put the matter
bluntly that, when the Ryan party was
running the election and asking for a second
term, there were 70,000 more names on the
roll than there were adults in the State,
and that, at Townsville, 70 adult voters
were packed, according to the registers, into
one boarding-house which wouldn’t accom-
modate anything like the number. Towns-
ville was won by Laborite Ryan (D. Ryan
-—not T. J.) in 1915 by a mere 198 majority
in a vote of 4438, so the Cause plainly
wanted some backing up. Laborite Ryan
won in 1918 by 489 in a vote of 5265. The
town didn’t grow much, but while the anti-
Ryan vote increased by 268 the pro-RYAN
vote grew by 559. This, Ryan’s enemies
say, was partly due to putting 70 (mostly
bogus) voters into one boarding-house. Cer-
tainly, according to Knibbs’s just-published
Federal volume of statistics (No. 12), won-
derful things happened at the Queensland
election of 1918, especially in the way of
the increase of voters. In some States voters
decreased or were nearly stationary owing
to the departure of soldiers to the war, but
in Queensland they were like the widow's
cruse of oil which failed not, and like the
rabbit which multiplied wonderfully. These
are the figures : —•
Electors on Roll at Recent Elections.
1914. 1917. Decrease.
Westralia . . . . 214,741 166,951 47,790
1913. 1916. Increase.
Tasmania . . .. 105,292 107,321 2,029
1915. 1918.
S. Australia .. 253,391 258,712 5,321
1914. 1918.
Victoria . . .. 284,089 310,987 26,898
1913. 1917.
N. S. Wales .. 1,037,999 1,109,830 71,831
1915. 1918.
Queensland . . . . 335,196 424,416 89,221
Westralia, with the largest proportion of
males, sent the largest proportion of its
population to the war, and 1 -‘‘, heavily.
Queensland, with less than one-seventh
of the population of the Common-
wealth, added 89,221 voters, or alleged
voters, to its roll. The other five
States, with six-sevenths of the population,
discovered only 58,289 new qualified
electors. There was no growth of popu-
lation in Queensland to account for
its increase of electors. The estimated
average population was 686,924 in 1915
and 688,547 in 1918 —increase 1623. Nor
was there anything unusual about the fran-
chise. For the Federal Senate elections, at
which every voter on the roll is • put in
Knibbs’s record, the number of Queens-
land voters (i.e., adult men and women)
increased by 10,089 in the three years be-
tween the elections of 1914 and 1917, which
was quite poor compared with the State
effort of 89,221. The way the State roll
shot ahead of the Federal one all on a
suctden was wonderful. If T. J. Ryan had
stood as a Federal candidate in his own
State he would have done so on the Federal
roll, not on the State one, and if there
were, as hinted, 70 more or less bogus State
voters in one small boarding-house, they
wouldn’t have been any use to him. This
may, or may not, account for a lot of
things. Very often a thing looks as if it
accounted for something, whereas deep in-
vestigation proves that it has no bearing on
the matter. The Queensland Government
ought to invite some impartial outsider to
find out whether in this matter things are
what they are hinted to be or something
else.
.*.
More Stinking Fish.
Adelaide University furnishes the latest in-
stance of the importing mania. A Professor
of Law at £BOO per annum was required to
fill the vacancy caused by the appointment
of Dr. Jethro Brown as President of the
local Industrial Court. Brown resigned
three years ago, and since then the work of
the Professor of Law has been carried on by
temporary lecturers appointed from amongst
graduates in private practice in Adelaide.
The employment of these practising lawyers
as lecturers had the great advantage of
bringing the law students into contact with
the atmosphere of the law courts and the
actual problems of everyday practice. llow
great an advantage this is every member of
the legal profession in Adelaide who has sat
under Dr. Brown realised as soon as he left
the Uni.; for Jethro Brown, whatever his
merits as a writer of readable books on
political economy, had never practised
at the Bar at all, and consequently
filled his students with speculations
and theories instead of legal facts.
There has been a whisper that he would at
one time have been glad to get rid of his
worries at the Industrial Court and go back
to the placid life of a professor, but that he
received no encouragement from the Uni.
authorities, because it was considered that a
more practical man was required. At any
rate applications were called for the position—
called in Australia and England—and a Dr.
Phii.ipson, of Manchester, has just been
appointed. The new professor’s special re-
commendation seems to be that he is a great
authority on Public International Law. For
all the use this is likely to be to a prospec-
tive S. Australian lawyer he might as well
be an authority on the functions of clothes-
pegs. There is nothing in the biographical
particulars available concerning him to sug-
gest that he has any more practical experi-
ence as a lawyer than Jetiiro Brown, and
lie certainly does not appear to have had any-
thing like Brown’s experience as a lecturer
in legal subjects. Besides, Brown was an
Australian and had knowledge of Australian
law and Australian conditions; it is not
suggested that Phii.ipson has either. He
has to commence his lectures next yeur. But
how is it possible for him in the meantime to
acquire knowledge of the extent to which
English law has been modified in Australia
by statute and precedent—knowledge which
he ought to have to qualify him to lecture to
Australian students? llow much, for ex-
ample, is he likely to know by then about
South Australian Acts, or the principles of
Constitutional Law as developed by the High
Court? Adelaide Uni. had a great oppor-
tunity to render the education it offered to
its law students more efficient, and also to do
honor to one of its distinguished graduates
in law. It has chosen instead to cry stinking
fish. If an Australian University cannot be
brought to see the wisdom of preference for
its own graduates, or at least the graduates
of Australian Universities, how can the
unenlightened business man be expected to
prefer the product of the same universities?
4
A Profession Less Stainless than It
Might Be.
A month ago R. D. Meagher, of Sydney,
made application—his seventh in 23 years—
to De restored to the roll of solicitors. On
Thursday the N. S. Wales Full Court de-
cided once more to bar him. There is
nothing to be said against that per se. But
no one could have listened to the remarks of
the counsel who asked for the decision on
behalf of the Law Institute without that
slight feeling of nausea which is experienced
in the presence of a pony-racing magnate re-
buking two-up. Put shortly, the argument
was that the soliciting profession is too
“honorable” to contain Meagher, Of course
there are most honorable solicitors—plenty
of them. Some of the best men in the com-
munity are solicitors. But so are some of
the worst. The profession has. all the
characteristics of the lady of doubtful virtue.
It doth protest too much. It wearies the
ears of the community on the subject of its
honor. The doctoring profession, with its
tremendous powers for good and evil, rarely
makes public mention of the subject. Den-
tistry never even thinks about it, apparently.
And so on, all along the line. But, owing
to the activities of some of it, the lawyering
profession knows that it is losing the confi-
dence of the. people. Its best members, at any
rate, know it; yet what is done to improve
matters —what beyond the very rare hauling
of a small black sheep before the Full Court
for some very clumsy roguery? There is no
reproach even coming to the common type
who first finds out his client’s financial posi-
tion. and then adjusts the length of the pro-
ceedings accordingly. Yet he smirches the
profession to the detriment of the other type
(also, fortunately, common) who is "as
anxious to prevent litigation as a good doctor
is to prevent disease, and who scorns to milk
his client of an unnecessary guinea once
litigation has become unavoidable. It is the
same with the counsel who takes a reputa-
tion as a doctor might take a life. He “puts”
crimes or offences to a witness —matters
which he has no intention of trying to prove,
and which he knows he never could prove—
and the effect may be to place an indelible
and ruinous stain on the unfortunate so
charged. The only protection witnesses have
against this, and a dozen other abuses which
will occur to anyone with experience of law
courts, lies in the powers wielded by the
Judges. They are practically unlimited.
N. S. Wales Chief Justice Martin, when
counsel interpolated a statement derogatory
to a litigant, was accustomed to put the
interpolator into the box and request him to
swear to it. How often are such powers
exercised to-day? In Adelaide lately a Judge
professed himself unable to see a barrister
who was wearing a grey coat. The Bulle-
tin will more gladly welcome a Judge who
will refuse to see or hear, for the rest of the
suit, a counsel who got to the jury, by way
of an aside, an unprovable accusation of
wrong-doing against a hostile witness. It
is one of the commonest tricks of advocacy at
the present time, and it never draws more
than a mild rebuke from the Bench.
4.
Beer, Loans and Ballots.
The Referendum is a democratic proceeding
by which the people are supposed to vote
yes or no on a plain, simple question; but
when the wrong person draws up the ques-
tion it may be neither plain nor simple but
altogether deceptive. If the idea of a State
liquor referendum in N. S. Wales comes off
the matter may be submitted in some such
fashion as this :
Are you in favor of the abolition of the manu-
facture, sale, importation and use of alcohol in the
State ?
That is probably how the originators of the
measure would propose to put the matter,
but it might be made more explicit, like this:
Are you in favor of the abolition of the manufac-
ture (in breweries, distilleries and vineyards), sale,
importation and use of alcohol in the Ha State
(with due regard to the fact that importation is
under Federal control so that foreign liquor may
come in to some extent, though local industry
is abolished) and the payment of an indefinite
amount in compensation out of loans with the
proviso that interest on these loans may also be
paid out of loans) so that Posterity will face the bill
while we have the spending of the loan-money?
Or do you feel differently?
That would be a reasonably fair statement
of the case if it must be put in one proposi-
tion, but it is safe to bet a mutton-chop
against a Melbourne Cup winner that it
won’t be put that way. The matter is really
not one question but a number of questions,
and the problem is one for the preferential
vote. These are the chief issues:—
Are you in favor of the abolition of the manufac-
ture, sale, importation and use of alcohol?
Are you in favor of prohibiting importation only?
Are you in favor of prohibiting spirits only and
allowing wine, beer, cider, etc., of limited intoxi-
cating power?
Jn ease use, importation and local sale are pro-
hibited, would you still permit manufacture for
export to less enlightened races who have not got
over the grog craving?
Do you approve of paying the necessary compen-
sation ( £8,000,000 has been mentioned) out of
loans and charging the bill to Posterity while we
have the spending of the compensation loan?
Or do you think it would be more honest to tax
ourselves and pay for our own high moral attitude?
if additional taxation is required to make up for
the loss of liquor revenue, would you prefer it to
take the general form of (a) tax on land; (b) tax
on incomes?
Would you prefer to let the whole thing slide?
It seems a good deal to put on one ballot-
paper, but there is a lot of ground to cover,
and the preferential vote should be equal
to the difficulty. If the electors can’t face a
paper like that, then an educational test for
voters is about due. A further matter that is
open to argument is whether a bare majority
should have power to decide to borrow the
compensation money. No man should com-
mit suicide by a bare majority because it is
an irrevocable act, and the idea of saddling
posterity with the interest on perhaps
£12.000.000 for ever and a day seems both
irrevocable and suicidal. It is all right to
throw out a member by one vote, for he can
be thrown in again on next polling-day with-
out loss. But to heap a burden like that
on our children’s children by one vote (and
he may be an unhealthy voter with one foot
in the grave) is different. If there is one
thing that ought to require a two-thirds or
three-fourths majority and a solid quorum,
either inside or outside Parliament, it is the
loan—except in war-time and for war pur-
poses. In strict justice only Posterity should
have a vote on loan questions as Posterity
has to pay, but Posterity not being here
yet, strict justice is impossible.
—
The Great Flight; and Its Lesson.
Amidst the stream of well-earned plaudits
aimed at Captain Ross Smith a chief factor
in his. success has been almost overlooked.
That is his engine: and, more particularly,
its tremendous horse-power. Poulet had won
a long flight (582 miles in hours) five
months before the war began. But with
his 1(50 h.p. Caudron G 4 he could only reach
India; and it was a miracle he got as far.
Sydney Pickles reached Broken Hill the
other day flying an 80-h.p. ’plane—chiefly
because the weather was favorable. Coming
back he met storms, and the slowest train
on earth could have defeated him over the
distance. Captain Wrigley left Point Cook
(Vie.) for Port Darwin —say, 1600 miles—
on November 12. He flew a 100-h.p. ’plane.
He reached Fannie Bay on December 12 —or
two days after Ross Smith, who had passed
over the Thames on the day Wrigley
crossed the Yarra. Ross Smith travelled in
a 720-h.p. Vickers-Vimy. That, really, is
the notable feature of the great flight. It
did not require super-men to make a" success:
of it —the capable and intrepid young soldiers
who achieved the feat would no doubt smile
if they were accused of' being anything of
the sort—but it did require a super-machine.
Flying is evidently a practical commercial
proposition—given the right machines. Ross
Smith left Calcutta on November 29, and
reached Australia on December 10—roughly
3000 miles in 11 days. On the new Handley
Page 1500 he might have done it in greater
security and less than half the time, carry-
ing sOoOlb. of mail at moderate cost, though
that cost is, of course, affected by the power
of the engine. That is one aspect. The
other was mentioned by Ross Smith almost
as soon as he had clambered out of his
machine at Darwin. Australia is already
invadable by air. Three possible enemies
are within a thousand miles of its shores
at a time when very ordinary heavier-tlian-
air craft can do non-stop flights of 1000
miles; when a biplane has done a 2000-mile
non-stop flight across the Atlantic; and when
dirigibles measure their journeys in thou-
sands of miles. Japan was reported last
week to have ordered two of Germany’s
largest and most modern bombers. It
already has 500 machines and more build-
ing, and an army of pilots. The British
have shown in their recent operations against
the Mahsuds and others what bombers can
achieve against a population, however war-
like, which is not equipped to deal with
them. The frontier tribes used to be some
of the worthiest foes the old British Army
was in the habit of meeting in battle. Faced
with aircraft they were a rabble. Aus-
tralia is no better off, as regards either anti-
aircraft guns or fighting ’planes than Afghani-
stan is. It certainly possesses a wonderful
body of pilots and mechanics; but thousands
of them are alreadv back in civil life, and
the rest are being demobilised with all pos-
sible speed. Meanwhile flying, though stiil
in the stage relatively that motoring was in
when De Dion cars, like over-grown peram-
bulators, used to gasp uncertainly over dis-
tances such as 15 and 20 miles, is forging
ahead. The aerial equivalent of the car
which leaves Melbourne one day and gets


“No-Veste” Flannel Suit
FOR DISTINCTIVE HOLIDAY WEAR
Cool, light Grey Flannel, so faultlessly tailored and of so dependable
a quality that it will retain its shape and smartness through long
months of useful wear —this exclusive suit has all the excellence
that the Peapes registered brand guarantees.
This all-Australian production is ideally suited to Australian
Summer conditions.
Coat has seam at back, two-button front, no padding, no stiffening.
Trousers, side, hip and fob pockets and permanent turn-up bottoms.
Economically priced at 63/-
PEAPES’ PAY POSTAGE.
Please state height, chest, waist and inside leg measurements.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 and 311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
£35
THE TOUCH TELLS
Glide smoothly, never grate.
Artists, Draughtsmen, Engineers,
Architects, Drawing Students, Busi-
ness Men —these are just a few of the
classes who buy VENUS Pencils regu-
larly.
<az>
are not a luxury, they are a
necessity for the best work.
w
v
Made in 17 degrees, 6B to
9H, and 3 styles of Copying.
OP ALL STATIONERS AND ARTISTS’-
MATERIAL DEALERS THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND.
to Sydney the next is at hand. It may be
“good-night” so far as Australia is concerned
if it appears before we are ready for it.
Letter from a Dentist.
Like a spot of green in a thirsty land is the
following letter from Mr. Charles New-
ling, dentist, TJnley City, South Aus.: —
You quote late-Acting Prime Minister Watt :
In regard to their wool they should aim at the ex-
portation of manufactured goods and not so much at
the exportation of greasy wool. In the eight months
of the present financial year our importations
amounted to £60,000,000.
What does Willy Watt know about economics,
anyway? If we can manufacture woollen goods,
or, for that, any goods, why a tariff wall to ex-
clude competition? Answer that if you can. Was
not that £60,000,000 worth of imports paid for
by exports which had to be produced, and did
that not give employment? Watt’s empty, childish
talk about exporting manufactured goods is only
the echo of the worst Prime Minister any country
was ever blighted with. No wonder the Manchester
Guardian said “his economics are beneath the con-
tempt on a little child,” he is a “nuisance” and
“speaks from a full windbag.”
Dental journals coming here from America are
heavily taxed because they advertise American goods;
but up to the present time whole pages are occupied
in “Protection” papers to advertise American goods.
If the Constitution is “amended” that may be stop-
ped. And why not ? To carry out the policy of
Hughes, Watt, Ryan and Tudor we should at once
pull down all the lighthouses, let the harbors silt
and be a “self-contained country” ! It was that 150
years ago. They had no party boneheads drawing
from 12 to 40 quid a week, wallowing in first-class
carriages, men who never earned 10s. a day before
their advent into politics—men who are as ignorant
of the most primary economics as a child is of
salvation.
It seems that no paper (Labor included, in spite
of its gag about a free and independent press) will
publish a letter opposed to Its “policy.” I’m trying
The Bulletin.
An answer is asked for; and as it is the
season of Christmas and New Year fellow-
ship, here goes :
(1) Question: “If we can manufacture woollen
goods, or, for that, any goods, why a tariff wall
to exclude competition?” To put it another way, if
you can eat food after you have lost your natural
grinders, why buy teeth ? When the U. S. and Ger-
many opposed J. Bull with record tariffs, J. Bull
realised that they could manufacture more than he
did. They had bought better teeth.
(2) Question: “Was not that £60,000,000 worth
of imports paid for by exports which had to be
produced, and did not that give employment?” Well,
Australia has got rid of about £560,000,000 of
sovereigns (comparing gold raised and gold still
here or invested abroad) in paying for goods, and,
though gold-raising might give employment, it was
temporary and a mere using-up of capital. We
want something better, especially as the gold is
giving out. Also Australia has about £600,000,000
of foreign debt (Federal, State, municipal and
private), or perhaps £700,000,000. That burden
arises through not sending away enough goods to
pay for imports, though some Freetraders assume
(they are a childlike lot and don’t bite hard on
economic problems) that trade is always an exchange
of goods. As this sort of borrowing can’t go on,
it is necessary to reduce imports.
(3) Even if trading was always an exchange of
goods there is no joy in sending stuff 12,000 miles
at great cost and bringing back stuff 12,000 miles
at great cost, when by having great industries here
the market can be shifted to our own door and
24,000 miles saved. The Manchester Guardian and
suchlike glorify trade because Britain owns (or
owned) 40 per cent, or more of the world’s ship-
ping, and was paid for this haulage. As we are
payers rather than payees we need to take the
opposite view, just as the person whom Dennis
the hangman was about to hang had a right to
differ from Dennis (who lived by hanging) re
capital punishment. This view should be chewed
upon. It is the pivot of the argument. The Man-
chester Guardian isn’t a god, though some English
people have a habit of talking as if it was, and
as if its say-so was decisive. It is simply a liquor
paper defending drink.
(4) The proposition that people who believe in
local industry should destroy harbors and light-
houses so as to be “self-contained” is ill-digested.
The globe, as a whole, is “self-contained,” and
always has been; but that doesn’t prove that harbors
should be destroyed. They are handy for internal
traffic. A continent, being a small world, finds
them handy also.
(5) As Mr. Newling suggests, Australia 150 years
ago had no tariff. And we don’t know that we
should care to go .back to its conditions.
(6> As regards members’ ignorance of economics,
The Bulletin has met only one who clung to the
idea that imports are always paid for by exports.
They mostly know that nations have piled up
foreign debts galore through not sending out enough
exports to pay for their imports, that being the
recognised way of going downhill in peace time.
The solitary exception—the member who didn’t know
a little thing like that —was a Freetrader.
(7) A temporary stopping will now be put to
the debate.
+
Wireless in Australia.
“Pad.tttd”: In pre-war days and till July,
1916, Australian Commercial Radio was a
branch of the P.M.G.’s Department. It -was
then taken over by the Navy. At best the
branch is a sink for coin, but under Naval
administration the annual loss is very con-
siderably greater than it would be under the
T.M.G. Some of its stupidities are almost
beyond belief. For instance, stations 10
miles apart, as Sydney Radio (Pennant
Hills) and the station at Garden Island,
might as well be in the same paddock. Only
one can work at a time; therefore the other
is superfluous. Instead of closing a station or
removing it to fill one of the gaps in the so-
called “daylight chain,” the power at both
these stations was recently increased.. The
Melbourne-Williamstown futility (these
stations are only five miles apart) was also
continued, and the confusion added to by
increasing the power at Williamstown. There
isn’t enough traffic at Melbourne or Sydney
to keep even one station warm. The fact
is that the purely-naval stations and the
commercial stations are under different
branches of the Navy, neither of which,
apparently, knows the other’s address.
Naval waste applied to its own stations is
a comparatively small matter; its extension
to the 28 or 30 commercial stations is
serious. For instance, under Postal control
all hands, including the officer-in-charge, took
watches. In the Navy “officers” (officers-
in-charge and their assistants) do little or
nothing. Consequently the staffs at present
are two or three men per station larger
than necessary. Also there are too many
NOT LIKE THE OTHER KLOKE.
CANDIDATE : “I’m not one of them Mokes who before the elections promise yon a free-
hold in Heaven, and after the elections tell y ’ to go to Hell and get it."
gold-mounted drones in the administrative
section. Behind the barrage of secrecy which
surrounds naval doings money is being
wasted wholesale on freak installations and
useless experiments. Further. , the Radio
Branch, in common with the Navy Depart-
ment, generally finds it impossible to re-
tain the best men. Land-line men make the
best radio-operators, and these experts simply
refuse to submit to the caste system of the
Navy. Practically all this class of man de-
manded discharge on the cessation of hos-
tilities. A further batch enthusiastically
departed last July. Efficient wireless com-
munications might be a very important mat-
ter in Australia one day. Therefore this
branch should, without delay, be returned to
the P.M.G.
«.
Observations of a roundsman: —-
My objection to 6 o’clock closing is this: it
makes for the worst of all. drinking—day nipping
and boozing. Never before in my time has there
been such an evil in regard to liquor in N. S.
Wales as there has been since 6 o’clock was fixed
as the closing hour in the early part of the war.
So true is this that many publicans don’t want
to see the time-limit extended. They have their
nights to themselves; they have no staff to keep
on and pay ; and the returns are greater. One
man who handles a big traffic put it this way to
me: “When we had 11 o’clock closing the crowd
would wander in haphazard except at the theatre
interval at 9 p.m. Then we’d get a rush for
five minutes, and we’d get a rush at 10.30; but
you could say that the drinkers had one or at
the most a couple of glasses each. Now the bar
is busy all day, and from 5 to 6 p.m. no theatre
rush ever could compare with it.” Which is true.
And following on that is the tea-time “drunk,”
who dollops in as many as possible before the doors
slam ; and the two- or three-bottle men who cart
home the load only to make there a muck of things.
Personally I would gladly push the closing hour
on to 10 p.m. if I could keep the doors
until 11 a.m.
The Federal Arbitration Court simply
snorts at the suggestion that it should
accept the N. S. Wales Board of Trade’s
minimum or basic wage. Both Board and
wage deserve the snort. The constitution
of the body, to begin with, is a scandal—
that is, viewing the body as one charged
with the duty of coming to unappealable deci-
sions involving millions of money. A N. S.
Wales District Court Judge has a strictly
limited jurisdiction. He can deal with civil
cases running to only a few hundreds.
And his lstw is under constant review. Yet
a District Court Judge was made president
and now another is made acting-president of
the Board; and apparently there is no appeal
from any decisions upon law that this law-
member of the Board may arrive at. And
the Board may deal with matters involving
not a few hundreds but millions. Besides
the District Court Judge, the Board includes
six or eight representatives of Labor and
Capital, employers and employees, not one
of them, so far as the public knows, trained
to the work of social inquiry and survey-
some of them, at any rate, paid by fees, at
so much per meeting of the Board, whereas
the vast bulk' of the work of members ought
to be study, and not the mere listening to
half-baked partisan statements and theories.
The whole thing needs to be thrown into
the pot.
Fifteen days ago a function was held to
celebrate a new Chinese-owned steamship
line which is going to collect freights from
Australia and /the birds’-nest soup thereof
was excellent. Ten days ago leading citi-
zens uncorked a bottle and a sandwich in
honor of the Dufteh line which is to connect
us with South America —for a sufficient con-
sideration. Two days ago the fatted maca-
roni was killed because the Italian-Austra-
lian line had commenced running. No doubt
the emu is fattening somewhere against the
day when our own line will begin to run
somewhere; but it is long waiting for the
fowl.
It has come at last —the Criminal Court
in S. Aus. has gaoled a motorist whose car
fatally injured a woman in Rundle-street.
There was some conflict of evidence as to
whether or not sshe had become confused
in crossing ; but the sure thing was that he
had travelled so fast as to exasperate several
eyewitnesses, who followed to the scene of
the fatality and declared they would see
that he got what he deserved. The jury
found him guilty of manslaughter, with a
recommendation to mercy; but Judge Gor-
don said coldly that there seemed to be
no mitigating circumstances. Sentence, 15
months; with a £lOO line.
Solly, of Vic. Legislative Assembly (he
used to be known as the member for Jack
Wren), made a humiliating charge against
his constituents the other night. Solly de-
clared that if he were to tell them that
he was in favor of giving members of Par-
liament £lOOO, or even £20,000, a year it
would not prevent their re-electing him. One
can believe it, but it didn’t seem a fair
thing to give them and the party-machine
away so unnecessarily.
Ross Smith’s £lO,OOO prize is tremendous
compared with rewards lifted by some other
Australian pioneers. John McDouall Stuart
collected £2OOO for being the first to cross
Australia from sea to sea. Hume and
Hovell, who with three horses, four bullocks,
two carts and six convicts did some won-
derful exploration in N. S. Wales in 1824,
received 1200 acres each, and land went
cheap in those days. John King, the sur-
vivor of the Burke and Wills expedition,
was rewarded with an annual allowance of
£lBO by a Government which trembled at
its own generosity. Wills’s father and
Burke’s foster-mother received a grant, and
the two leaders got a monument costing
£4OOO. Leichhardt’s party of nine (two of
’em black) journeyed 3000 miles through
unknown country, and after 15 months
reached their destination —without Gilbert,
killed—“ragged and famished, with no stores
but a few steaks and dried strips of their
last bullocks, and no horses but the ones
they rode.” The Government fixed the
reward at £lOOO. The public, more gener-
ous, added £l5OO.
As a side-issue in the Industrial Court,
Sydney, over an engineers and firemen’s
award :—•
Mr. Bretnall, "’ho appeared for the Railway Com-
missioners, said that on the basis of the last dec-
laration of the Board of Trade in respect to the
increased cost of living [the raising of the minimum
wage to 775. per week], the additional cost to the
Commissioners would be just over .c 2,000,000. The
question was how were the Commissioners to get
the money.
His Honor: More borrowing?
Mr. Bretnall: / have no doubt that is what we
shall have to do. There will be a tremendous
deficit.
His Honor: I suppose the borrowing power will
come to an end some time or other.
Mr. Bretnall: It must.
So the N. S. Wales Railway Commissioners’
own lawyer “has no doubt” that the prac-
tice of charging wages to loans is in sight.
Also there was something: said the other day
about a new Fire Brigade Board loan,
partly to pay increased wages. And Hol-
man threatens a loan to buy out publicans
and brewers and vineyard-owners; also a
loan to pay interest on that loan. Yet
Labor-leader Storey is panting to get at
the Treasury because Holman is too slow
and John wants to hit up the pace. John
thinks William is running stiff.
If a country gets the sort of people it
deserves, then the sort Queensland is getting
is nearly bad enough to make Ryan blush.
At Proserpine a few days ago a “crook” from
Melbourne knocked a mouthful of teeth out of
a man who was at work in a hotel that had
been declared “black.” This is how the
tnagistrate complimented him :
This is a town which, unfortunately, is made the
dumping-ground for the very dregs of humanity like
you, which flow in like a wave of poison gas by
every train from all parts of the earth preaching
sabotage, direct action and revolution. You en-
deavor to dominate the district and paralyse industry,
and only for the splendid police here you would
have gone a long way. I am not going to give you
the option of a fine, as it would be immediately paid
by your brother “dregs,” who are now watching
these proceedings.
Then he tore him off two months’ hard labor
—the maximum—and regretted that he
couldn’t offer more.
James Edmond writes: —
The politician of limited scope likes to keep to
simple matters which call for no constructive power —
the drink curse, the “profiteer,” the machinations
of “Rome,” the Chinese and the like. It is told of
an unlettered candidate of 40 years ago that he cried
out to an audience which wanted to know: “For
Heaven’s sake, boys, ask me something about some-
thing I know something about. Ask me about the
Chinese. I’m agin them.” T. J. Ryan fell back on
the Chinese in the last days of struggle—the arrival
of 81 Chows in N. S. Wales, which presumably
showed a design on the part of Hughes to flood the
country with pigtails and the doctrines of Con-
fucius. The Chows were real enough, but their arrival
carried quite a different moral. They didn’t come
to stay but to remove three ships which Australia
had sold to buyers in Asia, and they suggested that
the foreign profiteer is getting a bigger hold on our
trade and that we need to work more and listen to
less blither about generalities. This kind of purpose-
ful misrepresentation has always raged at elections,
but there was a time when leaders left it mostly to
the rank and file. This statement is no part of the
hackneyed theory that things were always better
when the old man was young—the theory which made
Adam lecture Cain about early rising and the chop-
ping of wood before breakfast. Things always get
worse —till they are so bad that people become really
wild and make them better. At one time people
decided that the showing of false lights to beguile
ships on the rocks was being overdone; in fact, they
became so wild that they passed laws for hanging the
candidate who wandered on the beach with the
deceptive statement in his hand. Something legal
may soon happen to the person who shows false lights
at elections to beguile the community on the rocks.


[James Edmond and J. B. Dailey, 214
street, Sydney; and Edmund Fisher, Old Exchange
Melbourne. ] 6 ’
Our Duty in
the Pacific—
If we are to undertake the
development and defence of
the Islands in the Pacific, the
establishment on a firm basis of
THE. AUSTRALIAN IRON
AND STEEL INDUSTRY
is an imperative necessity.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Preferential voting was given a trial at
the Federal election, and it is safe to say
that at the call of the party bosses pretty
well half the Senate ballot-papers m N. S.
Wales, at any rate, were dishonest. For
instance, the Nationalists, while hating the
Socialists like poison, advised their sup-
porters to give the three candidates of the
Red Rag party their second preferences. In
plain English, the machine instructed its
slaves to lie, and they lied by the thousand
accordingly. The object, of course, was, not
to express an honest second preference at
all. but to throw away second-preference
votes _on the hopeless. It was the old
“plumping” aggravated ; for the old plumper
didn’t say that next to his own special
favorite he preferred somebody whom lie
simply loathed.
The N.S.W. Labor “campaign committee”
published its profession of faith just before
election day in Fourteen Points in humble
imitation of Woodrow Wilson’s porcupine.
They were mostly the old promises of two
Golcondas and a Potosi to everybody, but
one matter was new and sudden: —
The great machinery of the post, telegraph, tele-
i hones and cables will not be allowed to profiteers.
Under these great powers Labor will end profiteering.
And even with this enormous penalty in
view there is still no definition of the pro-
fiteer. It is a case of enacting the death-
sentence for the crime of thingumbob, the
same to be defined on the spur of the
moment by parties not yet appointed. Pre-
sumably a profiteer in the long run will be
anybody that Ryan objects to, or anybody
that in Catts’s opinion looks like one.
W. L. Baillieu, unofficial leader of the Vie.
House of Landlords, has been admonished by
the Akgus. Though a millionaire, or there-
abouts, this dangerous person so far forgot
what, was due to his “class” as to vmte for a
hill introduced by Labor-member McNamara,
to liberalise the House! Baillieu committed
himself to the view that any elector for the
Uppish Chamber should be eligible to stand
for it; but. thank Heaven, though he carried
with him Aikman, Bell, Brown, Goudie and
Flicks, the second reading was knocked out
by 17 to 10, and it’s still so much the House
of Landlords that even the rich landless man
who has a million in war loans or 10 mil-
lions in Australian manufacturing industries
remains ineligible. As for the man who
merely has brains —well, the brute might as
likely as not use them to think with !
Australia will get a fair thing from its
workers all right when they realise that it
is they who suffer most when the worker
doesn’t do a fair thing for his money. Mostly
the truth is hidden—the crowd is told that
it is only the fat profiteer who is respon-
sible for the high cost of living. There are
times, though, when the position is so plain
that it can’t be lied about. It was like
that at Bundaberg (Q.) the other day when
the local barbers put up the price of a hair-
cut to eigliteenpence. And there was a
row promptly enough, with an official advt.
as follows: “Industrial unionists of Bunda-
berg are asked to patronise those hair-
dressers who are not profiteering in this
trade.” Incidentally the “industrial union-
ists” of Bundaberg are mostly sugar-workers
whose wages have advanced in three years
from £2 lUs. to £6 per week for unskilled
labor. Thai 140 p.c. rise has had just as
direct an effect on the cost of living as the
barbers' 50 p.c. rise. It is more easily cam-
ouflaged. that's all.
Alfred Deakin left £23,530, of which all
but £7OO was personal estate. Apparently,
therefore, the man thought worthy to be
three times Prime Minister of Australia was
not qualified to stand for the Victorian
Uppah House, as his real estate was £2lO
below the minimum.
The best feature of the elections in Vic.
was the weakening of both Age and Argus
on the party ticket. Apparently unable to
swallow Hughes or Ryan, the Age advised
its readers to split their votes, so far as the
Senate was concerned, among Elliott (Nat.),
Paterson (F.U.) and Barker (Lab.) in
that order, and record their next preferences
in favor of Guthrie, Rees and Barnes. On
the other hand, the Argus placed the two
Nationalists Elliott and Guthrie first and
second, and numbered the three Hayseeds,
Paterson, Reseigh and Rees, 3 4 and ti,
whilst allotting the selected Nationalist,
Russell, fifth place in its affections.
Russell, whom the Age reckoned only
worthy to head the tail-end of the proces-
sion, adds to considerable political unpopu-
larity the misfortune of being a target for
sectarian prejudice. Both papers showed
an uneasy regard for Digger opinion by sug-
gesting "Pompey” Elliott for the head of
the poll. It certainly couldn’t have been
because of “Pompey’s” promise as a poli-
tician.
The other day a Flinders-lane importer
produced invoices and cables proving that
certain lines of “Manchester” goods, priced
in 1914 at 84d. and Ojd., were now invoiced
at 3s. 1) Ad. and 2s. Bd., while common
white calico, which used to cost 2 7-10 d.,
could only be obtained now at. Is. lsd. —
an advance of 550 per cent. Whether" this
painful increase is due to profiteering or
THE FINAL.
PIPOT WAR (to his boss mechanic): “This flight of Ross Smith’s makes me think that
some dag WE might make a trip out to Australia and pick up a prize.”
to increased wages, is really of secondary
importance. The point for the Australian
is that if those goods were manufactured
here instead of in Manchester, the huge
sums we are now paying for them would go
into the pockets of Australian workers, or,
if due to profiteering, they could be diverted
from the manufacturers’ pockets into the
Commonwealth Treasury.
Many legislators are looking for soft
places to fall when the present N. S. Wales
Parliament expires. The grouping of exist-
ing electorates, with proportional voting,
means that some of the old members must
go out. A few are paying great attention
to their unions with an idea that official
jobs may be forthcoming; another is get-
ting the windows painted for a grocery. The
chance of public-service jobs is appealing
to others, wherefore Holman may be surprised
at the sweet reasonableness of one or two
Laborites in regard to his end-of-the-Parlia-
ment schemes; and if it is found that some
M.L.A. is considered the Heaven-sent man
for the job in connection with new branches
of Government activity, it will not be
amazing.
Direct action has reached the jury-room
now; and that is about the most dangerous
development yet. Apparently because of a
suggestion that drapers are profiteering
thieves, a woman charged with shop-lifting,
in whose suitcase 17 pairs of identifiable
stockings had been found, and who had
signed a confession of guilt, was acquitted
by a Melbourne jury. The astounded Judge
Wasley could only direct that these twelve
should be discharged from further attend-
ance. But is that enough? There are ways
and means of removing a Judge from the
bench; there should be equally regular
machinery for removing a citizen from the
jury-roll, and the removal ought to carry
with it suspension from citizen rights for
a period at least. The community can’t
afford to let a few perverted men imperil
the jury system.
This importing country pays tribute to
every rich shark on earth, and whenever one
of them makes more money than usual there
is a shriek against the profiteer. And the
shriek is always as if it were a local pro-
fiteer, and on the strength of that a brick
is thrown at the nearest little factory or
workshop. The news that Frick, the Yankee
who used to sell us steel, died worth
£30,000,000, excited the usual kind of hazy
people in the usual way. Nobody proposed
creating vast works and being independent
of Frick ; on the contrary, there was a gas
strike, a beer strike, a virulent going-slow
in the Townsville meat business, another
at Melbourne wharves, a musicians’ strike,
a closure of the Footseray ammunition
works, a strike at the Government Produce
Depot at Adelaide, a shindy at Kalgoorlie
and a large crop of small disturbances —:
all helping to put us more than ever at the
mercy of the world’s Fricks who die worth
£30,000,000.
Of course the Melbourne gas-men’s strike
did not last long. They were working under
an award; but of course that didn't last long
either. They wanted substantially better
wages. The big co. offered them an extra
sixpence a day ; and when the Premier inter-
vened it was raised to a shilling, and that was
accepted. And —of course again—this will
be passed on, so that costs will go up in a
hundred industries, great and little, and most
of those increases will also be passed on.
The passing-on process is quite simple—until
it comes to the “primary” producer, lie is
the man who gets it in the neck. Having to
rely chiefly upon an export trade, he must
take what his poorest-paid competitor is will-
ing to sell at. Australia has got to make up
its mind to one of two things. If it insists
upon exceptionally high wages in “secondary”
industries, it must either turn out only
enough “primary” products for its own
requirements, in which case the primary pro-
ducers can share in the high wages; or, if it
produces large quantities for export, it must
be content to have a poorly-paid, ryot, fella-
heen population on the land and in the mines.
Seeing the hopelessness of getting it
through this session, Lawson (Vic.) has
dropped the bill to remove doubts as to
whether the State can legally pay pensions,
to Supreme Court Judges beyond the limit
of £4OOO set out in the original Constitution
Rill. Hood is the only Judge whose retire-
ment is in sight, and there is enough in
the fund to provide him with a full £l5OO
a year.
Treasurer Peak'e of S.A. remarked that
the State had fallen on evil days, so he
proposed to increase the income-tax 25 per
cent, and add to some other laxes in order
to face the deficit. Treasurer Mitchell in
W.A. had a bigger shortage in view than
Peake’s (the ninth one in succession) for
fewer people, and as his golden State pays
only about half as much tax per head as
Peake’s he had a margin for new taxation.
But he decided to trust to the Providence
which looks after the lazy and let things
rip.
Greenwood, Frank Madden’s successor in
the Vic. Assembly, moved, on the Licensing
(Six O’Clock Closing) Bill that a clause be
added to enable prohibition to be carried by
a simple (instead of the present three-fifths)
majority at a local poll. Lawson gave him
an opportunity to withdraw by saving that
the question was an open one with‘the Min-
istry and there would be a chance on another
bill before the general election; but Green-
wood hung on till he found the numbers were
dead against him. Then lie wished to with-
draw. one the House would not let him, and
the division showed 14 for and 40 against-
including Greenwood, who abandoned bis
own infant, llad his amendment been linked
with one suggested by Snowball for compen-
sation it might have fared better, but it
would still have been tossed out.
"O.K.’s” question that needs an answer: —
Every Parliamentary election, Federal or State,
lea\ es me staggered by the foolishness of the party
that permits the other party a monopoly of the label
“Labor.” The fat-headed Aituus goes so far as to
use it, by implication, as a term of opprobrium, and
catches the eye of its Constant Header with such a
headline as “Vote Against Labor —-Good Reasons.”
An appeal to vote against the Trades Hall party
would not be repellent to commonsense; but reason-
able people don’t vote against Labor. It is the
party to which more than 90 per cent, of the com-
munity belong. A journalist, for instance, is quite
as much of a worker as the butcher’s carter who
travels around with legs of mutton and bits of steak,
and far more a worker than the men who run the
strikes and scoif at the Arbitration Court. Why
encourage their imposture by calling them the Labor
party ?
The poor old Dryberra Federal capital
site, in Two Pieces 1.-10 miles apart, was
almost forgotten in the election rush. Still
it got a mention now and then. Mr. Griltin
from America, the imported Director of
Design and Construction, ought to know the
place, and being a stranger lie is probably
free from bins. Addressing the Ad-Men's
Glub, he said he “expected to be old and
feeble before anything was done towards
putting the Federal capital” in the Unpro-
mising Land. Senator Pratten also got a
small hustle on the subject, and advanced ns
a reason for Canberra that
N. S. Wales comprises more than 40 ucr cent, of
the population, trade, commerce, tax-paying power
and lending ability of the whole of the Common-
wealth.
He probably meant “borrowing ability,” not
“lending ability,” but it doesn’t matter. The
real point is that, according to Pratten,
N. S. Wales should have the population of
the capital added to it because it has most
population already. Man is divided into
two classes —the pioneering person who
wants to go out to the empty places, and
the other sort of person who believes in
larding the animal that is over the odds for
girth already.
A post-election sketch of T. J. Ryan:—
Ho is no great orator, but he is fluent, loud, pev-
ft-rvid, eloquential and superlative. He has the im-
mense vitality of the big animal that needs to be
killed seven times before it is dead, and is un-
eatable) afterwards.
He lacks a sense of humor. No man with a sense
of humor could make the extraordinary state-
ments he does without stopping to shriek with
laughter at himself. He has brought the art of
promising to a point where further advance seems
impossible. Where other conjurers professed to ex-
tract a rabbit out of a hat he gladly promised to
extract a herd of elephants after polling-day, and
did it so firmly that anyone could see a sample
elephant on the platform if he had faith enough.
Lashing himself into a fury about the betrayal
of the whole globe and most of the other planets
by parties unknown, or about the mysterious dis-
appearance and supposed suicide of a barmaid, he
is rather convincing at the apex of his oration. If
his braces gave way at a climax there might be
a lucid interval between the end of his waistcoat
and the beginning of his pants, but it would be an
exception.
Among well-known Australians his nearest proto-
type was “Elijah” Dowie, the Zion and New
•Jerusalem prophet. Deakin was fascinating, rather
vague on details, yet careful in his promises and
always erudite. Parkes was rugged, forceful, ob-
viously a man of few early opportunities but of
wide reading. Turner was rather dull because Id's
desire for accuracy left no room for flights of
eloquence. Ryan isn’t fascinating. He isn’t vague
on details, for he has none. His vocabulary is not
very extensive. His facts are almost nil. But he
is a continued roar and Niagara of assertions, and
seems to have telegrams from all sorts of people in
every pocket to corroborate them.
He is the embodiment of melodrama. His bad
characters never did a good action in their lives, and
his good ones are so white that an archangel would
■ 1 c a blot alongside them. Ho gives away billions
in, the off-hand manner of the policeman in the
fifth act to whom the hero, just escaped from gaol,
submits his documents under a lamp-post, where-
upon the Law declares his innocence and hands him
back the estate. The quantity of steals he has
discovered without giving details, the crimes he has
uneaithed without producing the mangled remains,
and the schemes he has unmasked form a whole
library of penny-dreadfuls. Titus Oates and Colum-
bus discovered things, but they were amateurs at
tli-: game.
Standing on a platform with Paradise in one
nand and the severed head of the profiteer in the
other, and the wealth of the Indies pouring from
his mouth. Ryan is a striking figure, but over-
colored. He is fleshy rather than athletic. His
voice is good but not musical. He doesn’t quell
opposition by repartee or epigram to any great
extent, but rather tells the opponent what he thinks
of him, and he thinks a lot.
THE SITUATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Any elected politician kings :—
The whole situation is pleasing;
We must have the outs and the ins.
The badly defeated are freezing,
With leisure to think of their sins.
Hut we after toil shall have resting ;
We ran while the other chap crept.
All’s well; we have been through the testing,
The garden is lovely except
That there’s nothing particular doing,
And a great deal that ought to be done—
What’s the odds when each month is relieving
The cheque for the job that we won '/
Yes, taking the whole situation
With a circular sweep of the tongue,
It is good to be serving a nation,
A nation devoted and young.
The birds have completed their nesting,
The eggs came to life while they slept;
So with us, without boasting or jesting,
The whole thing is lovely except
That the thought of the future is pressing
With hosts of big tasks to be done;
I n fact, the whole window needs dressing
Or it yet may be drest with a gun !
X.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


COLUMBUS COMBS TO DARWIN.
COLUMBUS SMITH: “To use the remark made by my illustrious predecessor on a similar occasion 400 years ago, the company seems a trifle mixed.”


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
Registered <BHAS
Brand.
Producers of Lead in the following forms— , , ~
Refined Lead, Corroding Lead, Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated),
Super-refined Lead, Chemical Lead.
Also of —
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated), Spelter,
and the following: Alloys and Metallic Products
Antimonial Lead. Linotype Metal, Litharge ( I^ ust I > ia \^ d
Rearing Metals, Leaded Zinc Pigments, Blue I on dei : .
Purchasers on a Specially Favorable Tariff of Silicious Silver-Lead Ores, Slags, etc.,
containing Silver and Lead. Lead Prosses. Zinc Drosses.
HEAD Oi l ICE: COLLINS STREET. MELBOIiRNE
H. L. SHACKELL. Secretary. „ _ „
LONDON OFFICE: PINNERS HALL. AUSTIN FRIARS, E.C. 2
A. .1. SMITH. London Secretary.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
R. N. KIRK (Agent).
ADELAIDE OFFICE: 62 BROOK MAN’S BUILDING, ADELAIDE—
C. S. STOKES (Agent).
SMELTING WORKS. PORT PIRIE, S.A.
COKE WORKS. BELL AMD!. N.S.W.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire•
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
u
calling!
fs
ef
To the Tourist, Scientist, Investor
and, with a hundred voices from her millions
of acres, to the Man in search of Land.
Free Information on all subjects
available at once on receipt of this coupon.
Name _
Address .
Queensland Government Intelligence and Tourist Bureau,
Brisbane.
S.B.
A Safe Investment, or money returned if better value can be obtained elsewhere—the “PAVILION,” Sydney’s Restaurant de luxe, Circular Quay.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Bank of New South Wales:—
To Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
Mar., ’12.. 215,115 10p.e.= 150,000 65,115 2,170,816
Sept.,’l2.. 214,023 10 „ ~150,000 64,023 2,234,839
Mar., '13.. 259,004 10 „ ~ 156,339 102,665 2,337,504
Sept.,’l3.. 250,101 10 ~ ~168,946 81,155 2,418,659
Mar.,’l4.. 275,746 10 ~ ~175,000 100,746 2,519,405
Sept.,’l4.. 246,324 10 „ ~175,000 71,324 2,590,729
Mar., ’15.. 239,407 10 „ ~ 175,000 64,407 2,655,136
Sept.,’ls.. 237),929 10 „ ~175,000 55,929 2,711,065
Mar.,’l6.. 227,885 10 „ ~175,000 52,885 2,763,950
Sept.,’l6.. 246,425 10 „ „ 150,133 66,292 2,830,242
Mar., ’17.. 279,050 10 ~ „ 194,464 84,586 2,914,828
' Sept.,’l7.. 274,603 10 „ „ 195,243 79,360 2,994,188
Mar., ’lB.. 278,784 10 „ „ 195,243 83,541 3,077,729
Sept.,’lB.. 273,560 10 „ „ 195,243 78,317 3,156,046
Mar.. ’19.. 277,057 10 „ ~ 195,790 81,267 3,237,313
Sept.,’l9.. 302,425 10 „ „ 199,368 103,057 3,340,370
During the past six months the removal of
the British Treasury restrictions on capital
issues permitted English holders to pay their
quota of the half-million issue of 1010, so
capital is now four millions. The other day
shareholders assented to the putting out at
par of an additional 50,000 £2O shares, and
when the four quarterly calls are got in by
October next paid capital will amount to
five millions. These increases have been
justified if not actually called for by the
growth of business. This shows the move-
ments of the largest line on each side of the
sheet since 1914:
Deposits. Advances.
1915.. Increase, £3,480,851 Decrease, £1,473,074
1916.. Decrease, 1,373,386 Increase, 2,508,372
1917.. Increase, 1,749,408 Decrease, 2,110,146
1918.. Increase, 673,337 Increase, 6,407,178
1919.. Increase, 4,448,384 Increase, 11,518
Deposits had increased by almost 25 p.c.
during the five years to September 30
last, and advances by practically 20 p.c.
Certainly, over three millions of the
£5,343,849 increase in advances represented
War Loan and wheat accommodation,
business not so profitable as the usual run
of advances, but because of Government
backing much safer. Since the balance
there has been a further considerable expan-
sion in the advances following on the bank's
participation in floating the Peace Loan,
and partly as a result of drought troubles.
Six months ago The Bulletin wondered
whether the bank was not putting by more
than it formerly did to cover contingencies.
Though only about £190.000 further share-
holders’ funds were in the business at Sep-
tember 30 compared with six months pre-
viously, while liabilities to the public were
actually reduced, disclosed profits have now
suddenly leaped by £25,000 odd. Apart
from the growth of business shown above,
there are several reasons why the past couple
of terms should have been much more profit-
able than formerly. With the release of
shipping a great flood of imports poured in
on the Commonwealth, reviving very profit-
able exchange business. Compared with
1914, the Wales has also increased its capital
by half a million, and practically three-
quarters of a million additional accumulated
profit is in the business. If these extra
funds earned only 4 p.c. p.a. net, they alone
would account for the £25.000 of additional
profit disclosed. But besides the recovery
in exchanges and the larger advances busi-
ness, the liquid assets have improved con-
siderably from a profit-earning point of view.
Look at this comparison:—
1914. 1919.
Coin, bullion & cash balances. £12,828,662 £9,130,521
Australian notes . . . . 1,532,121 4,776,466
Other notes . . .. . • 72,621 146,577
Short-call money . . . . 670,000 1,920,000
Short-dated Treasury bills . . 1,600,000
Government securities . . 3,026,164 8,045,980
Municipal and other securities 286,014 754,634
Bills and bank balances . . 3,364,406 4,720,171
£21,779,988 £31,094,349
Of the increase of £9,314,361 over the five
years all but a million was earning some-
thing at September 30, and the War Loan
investments are, of course, sweet. Now
take the grouped balance-sheet figures:-
Liabilities.
Sept.,’l4. Sept.,’lB. Sept.,’l9.
Notes . .. £287,655 £1,142,141 £642,343
Bills etc . . 6,594,816 10,605,963 10,662,272
Deposits . . 36,722,127 41,252,338 45,700,721
Assets.
Liquid assets .. 21,779,989 26,798,820 31,094,350
Advances . . 27,207,838 32,540,150 32,551,687
Premises . . 795,000 820,000 800,000
Putting the growth of the bank into tabloid
form, we get this:—
On the one side, shareholders’ funds expanded by
£1,249,641 and liabilities to the public by
£13,400,738.
On the assets side £5,343,849 more was out in
advances, while of liquid assets eight millions more
have been put to regular work.
Yet, from the accounts, it would appear
that net profits have meantime expanded
by only about £25,000 on the best results
disclosed prior to the war. Little wonder
the chairman has been able to talk of the
management having “estimated for contin-
gencies as far as was humanly possible”!
'l'lie past 32 months’ disclosed profits rep-
resented a return of just 8 p.c. p.a. on
average funds. But the basis on which the
bank is trading—at September 80 it held
£7 15s. 4d. of the public’s money for every
£1 of its own funds —would suggest that it
is in a position to show a larger return
than that. Ten years ago net profits repre-
sented £8 14s. 2d. p.c. of funds, and for
many terms the results were better than now
admitted. The natural inference is that
the management has been taking advantage
of the abnormal times to strengthen the
bank’s internal position, which is all to the
good from the point of view of the public.
It also hints that with anything like aver-
age conditions the continuance of the 10
p.c. divs. on a capital which will shortly be
enlarged by 25 p.c. should be easy, par-
ticularly since the latest disclosed profits are
over £52,0U0 in excess of the full dividend
requirements of the new capital. Lately
the bank has been trading close to what is
generally regarded as a prudent limit. On
liabilities of the present size and an
additional million of capital the manage-
ment would hold £0 10s. Sd. of the public’s
money for every £1 of its own, and that
clears the track for further big expansion.
Notwithstanding the financing of War
Loans and wheat, the Bank of N. S. Wales,
at September 30 last, was still able to
show a very substantial proportion of liquid
assets, no less than 54.0 p.c. being held in
this way. As shown above, these liquid
assets are not quite what they used to be,
but so long as the national credit holds up
everything will be all right. Nowadays
Government lOU’s play so big a part in
private finance that all depends on good
political management, but in that respect,
unfortunately, the Commonwealth is being
served short-weight.
The Warrnambool Woollen Co. (Warr-
nambool, Vic.) :
Writ- To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. ten off. serves, serves.
1911.. £B7l Nil £B7l £399
Other goodwill items added, £4O .. 359
1912.. 2,490 5 p.c. = £1207 £1125 158 517
1913.. 5,637 6 „ „ 1557 2712 1368 1,885
Premiums on new shares . . 65 1,950
1914.. 3,956 6 p.c. = 1749 2498 1,659
Premiums on new shares . . 235 1,894
Forfeited shares .. .. 31 1,925
1915.. 12,428 10 p.c. = 5143 300 6985 8,910
1916.. 11,737 17 „ „ 8072 500 3165 12.075
1917.. 4,168 12 ~ „ 5912 10,331
Premiums on new shares .. 5000 15,331
1918.. 9,198 12 p.c. = 6073 3125 18,456
1919.. 6,174 12 „ „ 7114 17,516
From that last line it would appear that the
12 p.c. div. for the past year was not earned.
However, the actual net profit, after writing
off 44 p.c. of the book value of buildings and
almost 0 p.c. off plant and machinery, was
£10,384; but war-time profits tax on pre-
vious years’ operations called for £4190, and
this was charged against the latest P. and
L. account. Incidentally, £1940 standing
at credit in a taxation reserve of the previous
year has also disappeared. The co. lias had
to meet very heavy taxation bills during the
past three years; for, having a poor pre-war
standard, it has been hit quite unfairly com-
pared with old-established concerns in other
lines of business. This one may not have
paid too much. Many another certainly-
paid too little.
This Warrnambool woollen mill was estab-
lished in 1910, and the going was not too
easy at first. But when the Defence Depart-
ment set out to clothe an army the co. was in
a good position to undertake big contracts,
and when it had finished with military
work the Protection given local industry by
shipping and other difficulties afforded it
opportunities to cater for the civilian pop-
ulation. How very well it has done is
shown in this comparison of the balance-
sheet figures over the past five years:—
1914. 1918. 1919.
Capital £30,570 £56,181 £60,000
Liabilities .. . . . ■ 15,249 3,391 17,882
Property and buildings .. 8,196 11,759 11,367
Plant and machinery . . 18,503 29,083 32,530
Stock 12,842 20,929 38,132
Sundry debtors . . .. 8,259 12,368 7,162
Other assets . . • • 2,967 8,966 9,806
Though capital is now practically double
what it was in 1914, the co. still has to lean
on the bank to the extent of £13,785. but
most of this overdraft has been incurred
because the management holds on to £9lOO
of War Loan. Going back to the 1914
figures, there is now £32,063 additional
shareholders’ capital and outside money in
the business. Of this £17,198 has gone into
further buildings, machinery and plant; but
meantime liquid assets have expanded by
£31,032. Whether there are still further
war-time profits taxis to cut into cash
assets is not clear; but on the figures
as they stood at Sept. 30 last the co. had in
five years improved its position by £16,000,
equal to 26 p.c. of the present paid capital.
This performance, after distributing divi-
dends averaging 124 p.c. and paying into
the Federal Treasury, judging by the appro-
priations, something over £15,000 in special
war taxes, indicates what a fat time the co.
haa had.
The war having put the concern on a good
footing to face peace conditions, the direc-
tors are how planning further exten-
sions. Prospects for woollen manufac-
ture are certainly brighter than at any pre-
vious time. Conditions overseas have chan-
ged so much that, even without a high
tariff, for some years the local mills are
likely to have more to do with the clothing
of Australians than they had in the old
days. Still only a high tariff will make the
future secure and justify managements in
extending plants. Certainly the Common-
wealth can no longer afford to pour profits
into the pockets of overseas manufacturers.
Incidentally, a few days ago Vic. Govern-
ment Statistician A. M. Laughton published
some interesting figures showing the expan-
sion of Victorian industry during the past
15 years. In 1904 there were 1126 woollen
mills, clothing and boot factories in the
State, employing 28,219 people and output-
ting goods worth over four millions. There
are now 1500 factories employing 39,739
hands, and the value of the output for the
year to June 30 last was £14,885,000.
The Farmers’ Fertilizers Corporation
(Sydney), which started in May, 1911, with
a deficit of £7064, represented by goodwill
£5OOO and preliminary expenses £2064: —
Bonus
to Cus-
May, Profit. , tomers. Deficit.
1911.. £7064
Aug., Pref. Ord.
1912.. £1375 6 p.c. 5 p.c. £726 £99 6514
1913.. 1549 6 „ 5 „ 995 Nil 5960
1914.. 1173 6 „ 5 „ 1064 Nil 5851
1915.. 415 6 „ Nil 229 Nil 5665
1916.. 983 6 „ 4 p.c. 988 Nil 5070
1917.. 1184 6 „ 4 „ 996 Nil 5482
1918.. 1403 6 „ 5 „ 1187 Nil 5260
1919.. 1507 6 „ 5 „ 1188 Nil 4947
This is one of 89 concerns manufacturing
artificial manures in the Commonwealth, and
though it took over a business which used
to import 20,000 tons superphosphates
annually, it has, particularly from a pros-
pectus point of view, had a very disappoint-
ing career. Arthur 11. Hasell, the vendor,
reckoned that a co. with a paid capital of
£50.000 should be able to show a net profit
of 18 p.c. p.a. Instead, on a paid capital of
but £22,970 the total net profits for the paM
three years have amounted altogether to only
just on 18 p.c. Since the war, shipping and
other difficulties have given no end of trouble,
and a considerable shrinkage of sales has
resulted, last year's turnover being the
poorest yet shown :
1913 .. £47,684 1917 .. £19,547
1915 .. 44,387 1918 .'. 12,778
1916 . . 30,102 1919 . . 10,658
Apart from remarking that “finances con-
tinue in a very strong position, enabling the
directors to take advantage of favorable
trading opportunities to extend the Corpora-
tion's business,” no opinion as to prospects
is given in the latest report. Probably even
the directors themselves do not know quite
where they stand now that the Common-
wealth Government has come into the busi-
ness by means of the Peace Treaty, which has
given it a mandate over Nauru, the wonder-
fully rich Pacific phosphate island. What
the Government intends to do in the matter
of manufacture and distribution is not yet
clear; but not unlikely this and other cos.
will be able to draw on it for supplies of
raw material, though with the Government
at one end of operations there would prob-
ably be no fat profits in manufacturing.
When the prospectus was issued it was pro-
posed “to grant special rebates to farmers
and other consumers (being shareholders)
on their purchases, in order to make the
business co-operative.” But, as the intro-
ductory table shows, only in its first year
was the Corporation able to give its cus-
tomers a taste, and then only to the extent
of £99. Certainly there is a big field ahead,
for the demand for fertilisers should increase
rapidly. Knibbs’s latest figures show that
over 14-| million acres are under crop in the
Commonwealth, and the proportion treated
with either natural or artificial manures
worked out this way: Westralia, 94.46 p.c.;
S. Aus., 82.92 p.c.; Vic., 81.17 p.c.; Tas.,
50.58 p.c.; N. S. Wales, 44.26 p.c.; and
Queensland, only 2.45 p.c. As the soil is
gradually robbed of its chemical constituents
more and more fertiliser will be required,
even should the areas under cultivation not
increase. During 1917-18, the latest year
for which figures are available, 317,091 tons
artificial manures were used, but owing to
adverse conditions that was 64,245 tons less
than two years previously. The Corpora-
tion is certainly in a comfortable position to
handle increased business. Apart from a
mortgage of £4500 it owes only about £4OU.
On the other side, there is cash totalling
£9 -zoi, stock £3982 and book debts £2S.>s,
while £BOl7 is in land, buildings and plant.
Of the capital of £22,970, goodwill represents
£5OOO, which accounts for the deficit shown
in the last column of the table. However,
things have turned out so poorly during re
cent years that the vendor has voluntarily
foregone divs. on these shares. Also the
contract which was to have given him 7s. Oil.
per ton for selling and distributing the pro-
duct was a few years ago varied to 24 p.c.
on gross sales.
■* * * *
The Tasmanian Permanent Executors
and Trustees’ Association (.Launceston) :
Dividends and To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. serves, serves.
Mar., 1913.. £996 10 p.c. = £550 £446 £10,734
« , Iql q 1 902 10 „ „ 545 357 11,091
1 -’1913-• | Written off, £5OO .. .. 10,591
Mar., 1914.. 1015 10 p.c. = 551 464 11,05 j
q 1 927 10 „ „ 550 377 11,432
Sept., 1914.. | Written off, £5OO .. .. 10,932
Mar., 1915.. 753 10 p.c. = 536 217 11,149
o l 101 R 1 891 15 „ „ 868 23 11,172
Sept., 191 j. . | written off, £5OO . . . . 10,672
Mar., 1916.. 853 10 p.c. = 702 151 10,823
Sept., 1916.. 882 15 ~ „ 850 32 10,855
Mar., 1917.. 986 15 ~ ~ 850 136 10,991
Sept., 1917.. 1023 15 „ „ 787 236 11,227
Mar., 1918.. 856 15 „„ 787 69 11,296
iciiQ ) 983 15 „ „ 795 188 11,484
Sept., 1918.. Written off, £5OO .. .. 10,984
Mar., 1919.. 853 15 p.c. = 795 58 11,042
Sept., 1919.. 994 15 „ „ 795 199 11,241
If, since September 30 last, some obliging
client said his last farewells and left a
mere couple of thousands in this little
trustee co.’s care, then the management could
give a cheer to celebrate having at last got
trusts worth a million. It took 27 years to
reach the three-quarter million mark, and
only five years to add the extra quarter,
though appreciated values may have had a
good deal to do with the extra pace which
lias been made recently. Having become a
millionaire trustee concern there are indica-
tions that the Tas. Permanent is trying to
shake things up and get in a lot more of the
dead man’s money ; anyhow, every other page
of the current directors’ report is devoted to
telling the Speck all about the good work it
is doing. And, of course, it is doing good
work, like any other trustee co. which is
properly managed. To protect its clients
against fraud or carelessness it has put up
£lO,OOO of capital and has accumulated
£11,241 of reserves, and, besides, share-
holders have made themselves liable for a
further £40,000. Because reserves exceed
paid capital, the 15 p.c. div. is actually giv-
ing shareholders a return of only just over
7 p.c. At Sept. 30 last the co. owed but
£15)3 and possibly a trifle for taxation. Of
its assets, £11,608 was in War Loan, cash
and sundry creditors, £3OOO ill premises
(book value) and £7420 out on mortgage,
leaving £249 of odds and ends —furniture,
etc. Several of the movements of the trust
investments are interesting; 44 p.c. is now
on mortgage, compared with 50 p.c. five
years ago; meantime the holding of gilt-
edged securities has expanded from 8 to 13
p.c. Of course, the other big holding is
landed property.
The City of Brisbane Building
Society :
Dividends and Carried to Re-
Sept., Profits'. Dividend Tax. Reserves, serves.
1907.. £290 5 p.c. =£26l £29 £94
1908.. 314 5 „ „ 296 18 112
1909.. 360 5 „ „ 332 28 140
1910.. 427 5 „ „ 404 23 163
1911.. 476 5 ~ „ 459 17 180
1912.. 530 5 „ „ 510 20 200
1913.. 610 5 „ ~ 537 73 273
1914.. 668 5 „ „ 606 62 335
1915.. 573 5 ~ „ 544 29 364
1916.. 569 5 „ 549 20 384
1917.. 600 5 ~ „ 570 30 414
1918.. 576 5 „ ~ 547 29 443
1919.. 629 5 ~ „ 552 77 520
This little society had £12,077 out on loan
at September 30 last compared with £11,097 a
year previously; and £917 was earned in
interest, or £43 more. As exes, were about
the same, the extra interest practically
accounts for the additional profit. The fea-
ture of this midget society is that it does not
work on deposits. It risks, as a rule, only its
own money, which means that its profit-
earning capacity is limited. This year it has
apparently forgotten itself to the extent of
borrowing £661 from the bank. The society
has just had its coming-of-age birthday, but
the most it can show in reserve is £520, and
all it can give its shareholders is the usual
5 p.c., a poor return in days when the most
heavily gilded securities are returning a
point more than that. Investing members
have put up £10.145 and paid-up members
£BO5.
# * * *
Malay Queen Rubber Plantation,
Ltd. —The Malay Queen dominions consist
of 493 acres at Membang (F.M.S.), and
though 472 acres are cultivated her Majesty
has so far bestowed no favors on share-
holders. The rubber market nowadays is
a mere shadow of what it was in the boom


Wolfram, Scheelite
and Molybdenite.
PRICES AT PRODUCING CENTRES:
mi >i.Ylil>r\m::
85 per cent, or over, 100/- for each
unit MoS2.
WOLFRAM AND SCHEELITE.
65 per cent, or over, 52/6 for each
unit WO!?.
Enquiries Invited relative to
LOAVER GRADES of the above
Minerals.
DALCETY § CO. LTD.,
Commonwealth Government Agents.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Co. Ltd.
The “M.Iv.C.”
Probate Contract.
THE INVESTMENT TO MEET THE
INEVITABLE DEATH DUTIES.
As a man’s wealth accumulates he
should assist his executors by taking out
one of these contracts. They are issued
on a basis highly profitable to his estate,
besides providing the necessary cash to
meet the very substantial Death Duties
(State or Federal) on deceased estates,
without disturbing existing investments,
or necessitating heavy borrowing for
the purpose, a course which is bound
to involve a lengthy delay in the distri-
bution of the estate to the Legatees.
JOHN J. GARVAN,
Managing Director.
The advantage of having battery charging current
on tap in the home garage is now within the reach
of every motorist. The G.E. Mercury Arc Battery
Charger makes any ordinary lighting circuit a source
of energy for starting, lighting, and ignition bat-
teries. Its cost is a mere trilie compared with the
convenience and economy of home charging. An
overnight boosting charge every few weeks will not
only increase the efficiency of a battery, but will
also lengthen the life of the plates. You should
get one of these outfits. Australian General Electric
Company, Wentworth Avenue, Sydney ; and corner of
Queen and Little Collins Streets, Melbourne.— Advt.
Conserved water, especially in country districts,
quickly becomes contaminated. To drink such water
exposes one to grave danger from disease. Alumino-
ferric quickly clarifies and purifies water in dams,
tanks, etc. You use it in the proportion of lib. to
every 3000 gallons of water. Most effective and
quite harmless. Used by leading Water Supply
Boards throughout Australia. Sold everywhere.
William Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth. — Advt. [3
Modern methods of metal concentration require
fine and efficient grinding devices, and the tube mill
is becoming more widely used every day,. Present
conditions prohibit the importation of machinery
from abroad, so that we have to fall back on our
home manufactures. The Austral Otis Engineering
Co. of Melbourne manufacture tube mills of any size,
as well as grinding machines of every description.
They are also makers of the famous Hardinge Conical
Mills, which have made a name for themselves in
America.—Advt. [1
Pioneer Wood Stare Pipe.—Letter received from
Elmore Waterworks Trust, Elmore, 28th February,
1919: “Re yours of the 19th instant, in regard to
pipes supplied to this Trust. The pipes have been
and are still in every way satisfactory, and are quite
suitable for our requirements. The cost of mainte-
nance during the six years of service has been nil. If
we were putting in any further pipe lines, your firm
would certainly be favored with our orders. (Sgd.)
S. Southam, Secretary.” Send for our illustrated
catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe Company Ltd.
(II.0.), Burns Bay Road, Longueville, N.S.W. Con-
tractors to all State Governments.— Advt.
Iwentoks. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagli
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents. — Advt.
* * * *
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink’s Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 6035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723. — Advt.
In common with the general progress in engineer-
ing, marked improvements have recently been made
in the design of steam engines. A patented design
of “Uniflow” Steam Engine is now being made by-
Messrs. Robey and Co., Ltd., Lincoln, England.
Highest effiiciency and economy of steam con-
sumption is obtained with simplicity of construction
and low upkeep costs, and the results obtained
from this new type of engine have been so marked
as to place the ordinary type of compound engine
quite out of date, the manufacture of which has
been abandoned. Full particulars of the “Robey”
Patent Uniflovv Engine can be obtained from the
agents, Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Circular Quay,
Sydney. Queensland inquiries: The Australian
Machinery Co., 218-220 Mary Street, Brisbane.
—Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coliuson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assav
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. 11. B. Selbv & Co.,
Ltd., 265 George Street (between Hunter anil Bond
Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street, Melb.— Advt.
T. IT. Palmer, 8.E., Fel. Chem. Soe., etc., consult-
ing engineer, valuing, organising, .technical advice,
mining, metallurgy, flotation and selective flotation
processes, Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 Pitt
Street, Sydney. Cables and Telegrams: “Remlap,
Melbourne. — Advt.
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Loss of Profits
Insure in
Tl “ 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital . £250,000
Subscribed Capital .. 244,396
Paid-up Capital .. 122,000
Income (Cross) 1918 .. 457,852
K-tnblixhcd I!) 10.
ACENTS WANTED,
Branches in every State.
Write (or particulars.
W. 11. C'AVK, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
Try AINSLIE WHISKY
DEWHURST & HALLORAN LTD., Agents,
8 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
As Supplied to Royal Navy*
A. Victor Leggo & Co.
Melbourne -Sydney—Brisbane.
Manufacturers Metallurgists Merchants.
Exporters and Importers.
Specialties: INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS, INDUSTRIAL MINERALS,
ORES, METALS AND RAW MATERIALS.
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Other Goods.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
times, which produced a crop of new rubber
cos., and during the past couple of years
war troubles have aggravated the position.
This shows how the Malay Queen has fared
since production commenced four years ago:
Year to
June, Output. Sold. Average price.
1916 .. 17,3101 b. 15,83911). 2s. 6.75i1. per lb.
1917 .. 46,7771 b. 40,2031 b. 2s. 3.5(1. „
1918 .. 84,0541 b. 74.6901 b. Is. 7.94 d. „
1919 . . 103,5861 b. 61,8321 b. Is. 4.81 d. „
The “all in” cost last year worked out at
Is. 7.51 d. per lb. rubber output, so actually
there was a loss on sales. However, since
the term closed prices have looked up con-
siderably, and by including the 59,1631 b.
rubber unsold at the balance at Is. 7.31 d. per
lb. the accounts were made to show a net profit
of a few shillings. The co.’s chances of a
profit for the current year look good, for
the market lias got over the 2s. 3d. mark
lately, and, with an average of only 6d. per
lb. in excess of costs, on the estimated crop
of 100,0001 b. £2500 of net profit should be
available. But even then shareholders cannot
expect a div., as there is some cleaning-up
to be done. During the past year the co. had
to borrow £4415 from the Malayan Gov-
ernment, and besides that there are the
arrears on the £7BlO of very expensive 25
p.c. cum. pref. capital to be wiped off. This
pref. capital has been gradually increasing
for some years, and so, of course, has the
dividend liability, though how much is now
outstanding is not stated. But when the
co. has met its old debts, £1952 p.a. will be
required for the prefs, before the 15,000 £1
ordinaries can get a taste. Thus the pros-
pects of the ordinaries depend wholly on
the market and on the chances of the estate
remaining in a healthy condition and free
from cyclonic disasters. Paid capital is
£22,810, but the expenditure on develop-
ment, buildings and plant exceeds that by
£1906. Hence the £2193 of liabilities in
excess of liquid assets.
* * * *
In March, 1918, a little Sydney co. of
£lO,OOO in £1 shares set out to try for oil
at the foot of the Blue Mountains, near
Penrith (N.S.W.). The Industrial Boring
Co., Ltd., in which the Dixson Trust has
interested itself (R. C. and Win. Dixson,
Alex. Markell, F. D. Bell and Ilenry Morris
are the directors), got to work very ouietly,
and practically nothing Ims been heard of
its operations since. Yet, under the guid-
ance of Guy It. Andrew, a mining-engineer
well known on old Westralian and Speck
fields and with 20 years’ subsequent
petroleum experience in America, the
co.’s bore has been put down 2560 ft.,
and probably more promising results
have shown up than at any other
oil-bore in the Commonwealth. The drill
struck water at 78ft, and passed through
the last lot of water at 1290 ft. At ISISft. the
first gas was met, and now petroleum gas is
forcing its way through 2500 ft. of water,
the pressure being estimated to be at least
11001 b. _per sq. in. Though good showings
of oil have been obtained, and the evidence
to date, according to Guy Andrew, gives
“evei’.v indication of the existence of a com-
mercial oil field” practically at Sydney’s
back door, the co. is not losing its head.
Its shares are not listed on ’Change.
The adventurers are looking not for a mar-
ket, but Cor oil; hence the quiet and business-
like way in which the concern is proceed-
ing with work. The management has had
most imperfect data to work on, and the
present effort is little more than a blind
stab. Nevertheless, since indications are
still promising, boring will proceed further
at this spot; but if oil does not flow there,
probably another attempt will be made at
what now seems a more likely spot a little
distance away. Work to date has run off
with something over £6OOO.
Great Cobar is apparently ashamed to
ask the Warden for further suspension of
labor conditions on its Cobar Gold and
Chesney leases. Anyhow, a start has been
made to sink four winzes 130 ft. from the
present bottom (No. 5) level. This work-
will go a long way towards settling whether
a new shaft and treatment plant are war-
ranted.
* * * *
Lionel Robinson and Clark, of London,
have bought the Celebration, Hampton
Plains, and prvately formed a co. with a
nominal capital of a quarter of a million.
Option-holders are to receive £50.000 in
cash and 100.000 paid shares, but have to
hand over naif the cash and a fourth of the
shares to prospectors Hansen and Ireland.
Flotation expenses, commission, etc., are
expected to absorb £25.000, leaving £75.000
for working capital. Of the 150,000 shares
available for private subscription, 35,000
have been allotted for Robinson’s friends
and connections in Australia, and the only
chance the public has of getting in is at a
premium. As far as opened up. the mine
has a big body of ore. but average values
are not high, and to do option-holders jus-
tice they have never said they were. On the
proposed capitalisation a fair div. return
seems assured. A yield of 50s. per ton
should be about the average down to 100 ft..
but below that depth the value of the pro-
pertv is unknown.
* * « *
Some go'£l judges think Slawin’s, on
Block 48, Hampton Plains, on which the
hand-to-mouth financed bite Hope Co.
'holds an option, will prove to be as valuable
as the Celebration. It appears to be on a
good line of country; the values are there,
and, judging by experiments made by Ival-
goorlie metallurgists, the ore, though mostly
sulphide, will easily respond to treatment.
What the co. lacks most of all is sufficient
working capital. Few mines can be devel-
oped and equipped in the West under
£50,000, and, if results are satisfactory, fur-
ther large amounts generally have to be
found. It is pitiable to see a promising show
like Slavin’s in the hands of a co. working
on the basis of a shilling on application, a
shilling on allotment and calls when required.
The Mt. Rankin Co. has put up the shut-
ters at Southern Cross (VV.A.) and is
going to give the Yankee claim at Trentham
(Vic.) a go. This show has already pro-
duced 4202 tons averaging 13.7dwt., but
though the party lately in possession has
broken out most of the stone available to
the No. 2 level, and though the reef is not
big, a trial at a new level looks worth
while. The co. has reconstructed, the
directors securing a further calling power
of ss. on the 36,000 shares.
The jumping of leases on and adjacent to
the Celebration, which caused considerable
excitement over a week ago, is now not
taken seriously. Further inquiries leave
practically no doubt as to the soundness of
the Hampton Co.’s titles.
Ilampden-Cloncurry (Q.), shut down for
the August half-year by labor obstinacy,
slipped back £23,000. The actual loss was
£11.500, the balance being depreciation
allowances. But Collins I louse is not poverty-
stricken because of that set-back, as at the
balance there was still £lOO,OOO of surplus
liquid assets to give the show a fair start
when labor shook off its fractiousness. And
that £lOO.OOO did not include £39,937 of share
interests in the Ivembla refinery and other
side-lines. Work is now proceeding at the mine
on altogether better lines, as the fight for
the Duchess mine control is over. So that
good old show can be relied on to con-
tribute its bit. Ore reserves figure out much
as usual; 218,000 tons containing 13,020
tons copper. Of these reserves 95,000 tons rep-
resent concentrating material in the Hamp-
den and Pindora groups, the four big con-
tributors of direct smelting material being:
Copper
Ore contents
(tons). (tons).
Hampden .. .. 25,000 1500
Duchess .. .. 25,000 2750
Macgregor . . . . 27,500 1370
Trekelano . . 43,000 4300
The successful development of the Trekelano
has been the most cheerful happening tin'
co. has experienced for many a day, and
came just when the Duchess shoot began to
peter out. Hampden’s production now totals
569,755 tons ore, which has given 43 5 "
tons fine copper, 17,1730 z. gold and
337,9150 z. silver.
Two of Teddy Miles’s offspring are now
hunting for tin in fresh fields. The Dee-
book sparkled when the news went round
that Lionel Robinson’s London crowd had
taken up a parcel of shares and had acquired
an option over a second lot. But the
ground held by the co. was not very fruit-
ful, and finally No. 1 plant was transferred
to a Ronpibon block. There it has been
scraping up fair yields in heavy clay, and
providing some profits. No. 2 plant was
kept going till May last on the old claim
at Renong, and out of 518,049yd5. of drift
got 167£ tons oxide, which, with tin oxide
at over £149 per ton, put £24.991 into the
till. This, with oddments from the Ronpibon
venture, provided 4s. per share in dividends
for the Deebook crowd. So £35,000 out of
a paid-up capital and share premiums of
£314,110 has been handed back. The chances
of recovering the balance would be noor if
the co. had not new interests in the Taiping
to retire upon. From that concern it is to
get £40.895 for its dredge and stores durb "
three years from March next. That will
sweeten Deebook, especially if the Taipin s
900 acres turn out trumps. So far 331
acres bored are said to grade from 220 z. to
Sloz. tin oxide. On those figures, if the
ground is at all decent to handle, good profits
should result; but the problem to be solved
is how much ground is 220 z. stuff and how
much B|oz.
* * * *
The other Miles show is the Bagnong
Valley, near Renong. This was supposed
to be the pick of the bunch, but its light
went out so fast that a final div. of lOd. is
promised for a date early in 1920. Still, the
last 10 months’ run was not at all a bad
performance: 605,147yd5. gave 275 tons
oxide, or an average of lib. per cub. yd.
With costs down at 51d. a net profit of
10.42 d. was earned. Now the dredge is to
work for the North Taiping Co., in which
the Bagnong Valley holds 400,000 out of
750,000 dollar shares. It will have 400
acres ahead, and if, as claimed, 150 acres
of the ground go over the pound, then the
move from Renong to Penang promises well.
The first month’s run has worked out at
better than the bore results. 54 tons of oxide
coming from 115,000 yds. The North
Taiping commenced dredging entirely free
of debt.
* * * *
The Speck Government has approved of
the proposed half-million hydro-electric
power scheme at Lake Rolleston. which is to
give the Mt. Read-Rosebery group 15,000
h.p. That co. undertakes to pay the State
£2 15s. per h.p. for 15 years. But the
scheme should mean much more to the
Government than that. The Speck’s west
coast is far from being an exhausted field.
There are sound engineers who risk their
reputations on the statement that not even
all the eyes have been picked out of it yet,
while the bodies of low-grade ores awaiting
development by cheap power are practically
inexhaustible. The advent of hydro-electric
power to Zeehan and district should re-
awaken the once famous field.
* * * *
The Commonwealth Government’s expen-
sive hunt for oil in Papua has reached
another stage. Some time ago the Anglo-
Fersian Co., in which the British Govern-
ment is a big partner, was brought into the
scheme, and two of the co.’s officials,
apparently geologists, are now in Melbourne
consulting with Dr. Wade, who has charge
of operations for the Commonwealth. Pre-
sumably they will shortly go north. It will
be interesting to know what they have to
say about the value the Government has re-
ceived for its big outlay.
* * * *
“Brouhaha” on Vic. power schemes:—-
“Junius” (B. 11/12/’l9) on Vic. electricity seems
too cocksure. He has got hold of the wrong “set
of the under-currents.” These do not flow beneath
Morwell, but all round and above and below Altona.
Since £ £ Smith’s black coal Commission, which, in
1889, took tons of evidence about the merits of
Morwell brown coal as a heat-producer, there have
never been two opinions about its value for making
either briquets or electric current. The report of
that Commission is as big as the Book of Dooms-
day, and “Junius” can have the loan of mine with
pleasure. Thirty years have passed since the Aus-
tral Otio Co. installed a briquet plant for the
Great Morwell Mining Co., which worked the de-
posit it is now proposed to open up. And manager
Corbett burnt brown-coal gas under a mantle to
illuminate his own house. The briquets brought £1
a ton in Melbourne, and were becoming known
when the land boom burst and the co. blew up.
Now, with indecent and violent haste, the Elec-
tricity Commission is rushing its lame and impotent
conclusion past the Cabinet and Parliament lest
somebody else discovers that Altona is a better
source of supply and Kiewa a practically certain
one. “Junius” airily writes: “Altona having been
found too costly and Mitta Mitta water-power pos-
sibilities too small, the nucleus of cheap electrical
power is to be Morwell.” Who found Altona
was too costly ? And who found the Mitta
Mitta water scheme too small? Altona raises
coal for 6s. 6d. a ton at the present moment
with out-of-date machinery. Equipped with
modern hoisting plant and with a proper system of
pony haulage below, it can produce coal at 4s. 6d. a
ton compared with the 2s. 3d. for Morwell guessed at
by Lindesay Clarke. It must have been a guess, as
Morwell costs of winning coal for some time past
have been 12s. 6d. a ton! £160,000 spent on
Altona, as suggested by D. A. Robertson, the well-
known Sydney colliery engineer, would enable the
Altona output to be raised to 2000 tons a day.
It’s a pity Messrs. Lyle, Swinburne and Gibson did
not spend a day down the Altona colliery. They
could have done it without damping the soles of
their boots. Altona is ready for big development,
Morwell is not. Altona is 10 miles from Melbourne,
Morwell 90. Altona coal is equal to Morwell and
there is 60,000,000 tons within the same radius
of two miles as Morwell’s 150,000,000. Altona
is on the sea at the front door of the capital. Mor-
well is up the bush, too far away for new industries
or new factories to be established and not near
enough to existing factories in Melbourne. What
is the under-current at work which prevented the
Payi e-Herman-Harper committee three years ago
carefully examining Altona? Neither of these two
Commissions has made a thorough, meticulous in-
quiry into the merits of the Altona brown-coal field,
and until some independent body does so it is
ridiculous for “Junius” to dismiss a great power
problem by saying loosely “Altona having been found
too costly.”
A word of warning to the hurried Vic. Electricity
Commissioners. They have asked for £30,000 to
conduct experiments in briquetting, a farcical pro-
ceeding in face of the fact that the output of
briquets in Germany in 1913 was 24,000,000 metric
tons. Neither Morwell nor Altona brown coal can
be made into briquets which will stand handling
without the use of a binder. The best binder is
pitch, and enough pitch can only be got in Vic-
toria by distilling it from brown coal through a
low temperature process. No process I have seen
abroad, in America or Europe, can make briquets
from our brown coal without a binder, and the
£30,000 outlay is a joke, like the silly expendi-
ture by the Vic. Mines Department a few years
ago at North Fitzroy in trying to find out whether
there was gas, tar and oil in brown coal! One
hundred technical books on brown coal indicate
that these substances have always been present in
brown coal, and are as easily extracted as bad
teeth. It hurts one to read of the empirical tricks
these local chemists and engineers nowadays play
w 'ith brown coal, the chemistry and capacity of
which have been so fully known in Europe for 50
years!
As to the Kiewa hydro-electric scheme, A. G.
Michell worked out an excellent and feasible plan
for collecting the waters of the Mitta Mitta River
and its tributaries, and using their force to pro-
duce 50,000 kilowatts daily. And Michell was not
asked to harness the Snowy River or the hundred
streams flowing from the Australian Alps. The
best firm of hydro-electric engineers in California
approved Michell’s data, and guaranteed to carry
his scheme into operation in 18 months for a mil-
lion sterling. Even if the result was only half that
power, or 25,000 kilowatts a day, is not worth
having? The Electricity Commissioners estimate
they will want £3,000,000. Merz said he could
electrify the Melbourne trains for £2,250,000, and
it has cost £6,000,000 to date. Another £6,000,000
will be spent on Morwell in the next five years.
Why not spend one million on Iviewa and another
million at Altona, and instal the Morwell system
slowly and more cheaply ?


The Clucky hen opens the meeting with the demand that all worms shall grow nol less
than, three inches lonfv
u Y<zs . and they shouldnl be more than
three inches under the surface"
The Bardarris ideta was that Man should be
compelled to loosen, ike Sur/hcc with £v/orR.
Thcz Black Orpington, proposed , and it waS agreed
that the minimum should be/txed at ten worms a day.
ria//y Cochin moved ihat/avtmg, acceptance
oy meir demands .an egg strike k>c declared.
Th<z_ motion was Carrte.d ,
'‘Well,now, wh&l &bout
some ? "
The wiie oldh<zxi : u seemS to me c that, with ell your
tall talk .the only way to get worms 15 to scratch
/or them”
THE FOWL-YARD FLIES TO POLITICS.


ABBOT
LAGER
m
&
.A*-.*
Made from
Malt e. Hops
ONLY
A PERFECT
BEVERAGE
FOR A
SUMMER'S DAY
THE DEAF HEAR!
The Joy and Happiness
of perfect hearing are
only appreciated by
those who have lost it.
The
Mears Earphone
makes it yours. The
Latest Model 96-Tone
Mears Earphone
In the hollow of the
hand or attached to
ear with light head
band.
with its great range of
tone and power, can be regulated by a touch
of the finger to suit the hearing for every
occasion, and for all stages of deafness.
The MEARS EARPHONE catches and inten-
sifies even the least whisper, and enables the
deaf to hear lectures, sermons and plays dear-
ly and distinctly. Small, compact, and incon-
spicuous. The MEARS EARPHONE is
recommended by leading Aurists, and many
prominent Australian citizens have had the
Mears Earphone in daily use for Seven
Years, with continued satisfaction.
A Lengthy Guarantee with each instrument
FREE TRIAL \
Call and test it, or write for booklet post free.
The Mears Earphone Co., Bernard's Bldgs.,
Tel. 3916 City. 387 George Street, Sydney.
[John Barr and Ernest O’Ferrall, 214 George-
street, Sydney; and C. R. Bradish, Old Exchange,
Melbourne. ]
Hotel Sydney
The Spacious Dining
Hall is a Rendezvous
of Eminence for
LUNCHEONS
and
DINNERS.
items*—
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA.
CHARriING ROOF GARDEN.
Management E. T. CTIEESEJIAN,
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Ross and Keith Smith are sons of veteran
Andrew Smith, of Walkerville and various
up-country S. Aus. stations. One of them
was formerly in Harris Scarfe’s hardware
house, the other with Elder Smith’s. A
third brother was killed in the war. Walter
Shiers, one of the two mechanics on whom
the flight mostly depended, is one of five
brothers from suburban Southwark who
enlisted: he learned most of his mechanics
at Broken Hill. Three of the Shiers boys
returned by a more ordinary route; one
never will return.
Dick Meagher, M.L.C., ex-M.L.A., ex-
Speaker, ex-Mayor of Sydney, struck off the
roll of solicitors 23 years ago for his connec-
tion with the Dean case conspiracy, has made
his seventh application for re-instatemeut,
and failed. He has nobody to blame but
himself. Of the three Judges who sat to
hear him two, at least, seemed prepared to
JOHN FULLER, of Maoriland, father of the
big theatrical concern.
lay hold of any reasonable excuse for rein-
stating him. He gave them none. He is
apparently so satisfied with the Meagher he
was that he scorned to represent himself as
any other; and submitting himself as the
Meagher who was turned down before, he
merely invited the Court to turn him down
again.
After Watt had been given a rough time
by the crowd at Gregory Hall, St. Kilcla
(Yic.), Donald Maekinnon took a turn. As
the boo-hoo element was just as noisy the
local councillor who was chairman rose and
said protestingly: “Oh, give a gentleman a
show!” The crowd was tickled at the
implication that manners didn’t, matter so
much where a mere Federal Minister was
concerned, but, damitall. a gentleman that
was different. So Donald got on better after
that. , .
Dr. John Shirley retires from the post of
principal of the Teachers’ Training College,
Brisbane, at the end of the year. Past and
present students and members of the Edu-
cation Department staff farewelled their old
friend with valuable gifts last week. Dr.
Shirley was a 28-year-old R.Sc. of London
when he reached Brisbane in ’7S. In 1912,
when over 60, he got his six months’ leave,
went to Sydney Uni. and took his D.Sc. As
school inspector he has travelled pretty well
all over Bananaland on horseback, because
there were hardly any loan railways when he
began his rounds. He doesn’t look a day
over 50, still has a young boy’s zest for
camping out, and is going to fill in some of
his time as conchologist to Brisbane Museum.
Only one candidate for a seat in the
Maoriland House
of Reps, (election
on the 17th) was
returned unop-
posed. He is Api-
rana Turupa Ngata,
who comes from
one of the four
Maori electorates,
lie is highly edu-
cated, like very
many of the race.
In 1893 he took his
B.A. a t Canter-
bury College and
was runner-up
for the senior
scholarship in poli-
cal science. Two
years later he took
his M.A. with
honors, and then
was licensed as a
barrister. He was
only just past 30
when he reached
Parliament i n
1905; and at 45 he
is still full of
energy and has, on
all appearances, a
long way to go yet.
W. F. WEBB.
Crown Solicitor,
Queensland.
“Jimmy” Allen, Maoriland’s Minister for
Defence throughout the war. and a tireless
worker on a thankless job, has been
appointed M.L.’s first,Minister for External
Affairs —which means oversight of Samoa
and the Cook Islands, and there is more in
that than the-man-up-the-road knows. Allen
first entered the M.L. Reps, in 18S7, and
he has ever since been mostly the right-
hand man to the Opposition that fought
Seddon and Ward. These days he is off-
sider to the dull Massey. He is a Soutn
Australian, born in 1855.
Bruce Smith has crashed at last in
Parkes (N.S.W.). It was bound to come.
For years his attendance-record in Parlia-
ment has been l.ow. Then he came into a
fortune and removed himself to Bowral, and
Parkes began to forget what he looked like.
Many of the younger generation had never
seen him. To them he was a veritable Myth
—a mere dim legend or rumor. Add to
these disabilities the fact that his views on
the threshold of 1920 are the views he held
and voiced in 1880, and it becomes evident
that he is .fitted for the role rather of relic
than of representative. He has suffered all
his political life from strong convictions and
the ponderous rectitude of an archbishop who
has blundered into a railway carriage filled
with card-sharpers. Such a man hardly
ever reaches office under the party system.
The bravoes of his party have their poni-
ards ever in readiness for him, and when
the weapon is at length driven home there
are cheers in the dim cellars where such
deeds are planned.
Laborites Moses Gabb and E. J. Stokes,
who have been threatening the political
existence of Glynn and Foster in South Oss,
are both connected with the Methodist
Church. Moses, now a greengrocer, was
formerly’a back-blocks home missionary, but
resigned through doctrinal differences with
his fellow-Methodies. Stokes, who is pre-
sident of the Wallaroo Waterside Workers,
has banged the Word as a local preacher
for 22 years without showing the slightest
depreciation in voice or enthusiasm. C. L.
Gray, who has been giving the aged Poyn-
ton a hard fight for Grey, is a U.S. native
who fought for Australia in France and
received a nasty knock at Bullecourt. Since
his return from battle he has had his old
job of organiser for the A.W.U.
Major-General Neville Howse, V.C., just
returned after five years’ service, was one
of the great men of the war. He started
with a policy, and never altered it. It
was to make the A.I.F. in the field as
nearly as possible a physically-fit body. The
moment a man became unfit Howse gave
him, if lie could, a spell in England, and if
his case was serious he got an “Aussie.”
This was Howse’s idea of saving the Com-
monwealth money and keeping up the pres-
tige of the A.I.F. as a fighting force, _ the
two governing principles being that an ailing
man can’t fight and that it is poor economy
to pay people for what they can’t do.
Members of the State Parliament were two
a penny in the municipal elections around
Adelaide. At the Port young Verran, sou of
old-time Labor Premier John, was defeated.
At Thebarton, Gluyas, M.L.C., and Black-
well, M.L.A., failed. At Unley, Styles, who
has been made the scapegoat for the expen-
sive land purchases of the late Vaughan
Ministry, tried to come back into public life
on the minor scale; but he made the mis-
take of opposing the sitting mayor. Inci-
dentally, Dr. Phoebe Chappie made the same
error in tactics at North Adelaide; J. S.
Rees has done good service, and stayed in.
The lady doctor, who had a brilliant war
record, will probably get in easily when a
seat is really vacant.
S. Australia’s oldest jam-boiler changed
hands the other day, when the Henry Jones
people at last pushed into Adelaide. The
late George McEwin, a gardener, established
the business 00 years ago. He had planted
fruit-trees in the Ilills, and when taey
.began to bear he found it so difficult to
market the stuff that he started making jam.
And it has been McEwiu’s ever since.
A. P. Sullivan, V.C., who got back to
Adelaide last week, solved the problem of
winning the Cross although not getting to
the Front before the war was over. He
made several attempts to enlist, but was not
accepted till April, 1918, and was in camp
in England at Armistice time. Volunteer-
ing for service in Northern Russia, he got to
the Shuika River, and there, jumping in
under heavy fire at close range, saved at
least four lives. The records call it “a
splendid example of heroism.” His home
is at Crystal Brook, S.A. He’s another
National Bank clerk, by the way.
W. G. Spence, who has been endeavoring
to wrest Batman (Vic.) from the grip of
Frank Brennan, was lately challenged anent
his claim to be the founder of the A.W.U.
On behalf of David Temple, now of Carlton
(Vic.), it is submitted that he called a few
shearers together in Ballarat in 1886, the
original meeting numbering 13, who sub-
scribed £2 7s. 6d. Temple then hoofed the
country, paying his own salary and exes, as
secretary, and enrolled the first 500 members.
The combination, by the way, was then the
Australian Shearers’ Union. Still, whether
Spence was the parent of the infant or not,
there can be no question that he was a won-
derfully successful nurse, not only of the
A.W.U., but of the older A.M.A. as well.
Unlike Bent, who could read a speech pre-
pared for him, Dave Oman, Vic. Minister
for Agriculture, only bores his listeners
when he tries the same feat. As he mean-
dered through a second reading explanation
of the Agricultural Education Bill, the
Assembly poked fun at him and wanted to
know who was the author. When the writ-
ten word got too literary for Bent he would
interpolate. “That’s Dr. Robertson, of the
Health.” or “That’s my educated colleague
here” (pointing to Mackey, now Speaker).
Then he would rest his specs on his head
as if to let in light, and add ; “Now I’ll
give you a bit of my own,” and pretty often
the bit was quite irrelevant. Oman tried
the same dodge, but he couldn’t carry it off.
The Speck’s election scream was Purkiss-
Ibbot. He wasn’t a candidate, really,
because somebody mucked up his nomination
paper; still he had a fly for the pure enjoy-
ment of putting in his spoke to the confu-
.. sion of Hughes and Ryan. He described
himself as an Independent-Conservative-
National-Democratic-Radical on a visiting-
card five inches by six, and in addition fur-
nished the date of his birth and the name of
his favorite picture actress. He has some
nutty election stunts, too. One is to
ride a motor-cycle and develop a mysterious
breakdown. When there is a crowd around
he deftly introduces the subject of politics
and distributes visiting-cards—and then sud-
denly finds the cycle O.K. He is going
back to the Cold Country to stand at the
next election for the House of Commons.
John Thomson’s candid admission of “no
occupation” seems strikingly descriptive now
that he has been rejected in Cowper
(N.S.W.*). In the last Parliament Thomson
enjoyed a little relief from unemployment
in rounding up the Nationalist majority as
Government Whip, but apart from that
hobby he had nothing more to do than have
the honor of being the husband of widow
Langlands Jack. Thomson, who lives in his
wife’s swagger home in South Yarra, is
amiable, discreet, silent, self-effacing, tem-
perate in temper and modest in speech, and
merely seems to go on living for the sake
of politeness.
J. Miller Anderson, who founded his drapery
business in Adelaide when it was quite pos-
sible to get lost in the bush between Rundle-
street and South Terrace, was 91 a few
days ago. Though not quite as active as
he used to be, he, like his old friend Charles
Goode, still looks in on his business occa-
sionally.
They are everywhere. E. W. Latchford.
an A.I.F. captain, who handled trainees in
his own country for five years, has been
wearing a Digger hat in Irkutsk, Siberia.
His job has been to teach the budding Rus-
sian soldier something about musketry—in
order to argue with the Bolshevik and any
other enemy that may arise. He finds the
E. W.
GREENWOOD .
M.L.A. (Vic.),
who leads the new
anti-grog offensive.
Russian the “easi-
est man to train
you could find”;
but off the parade-
ground addicted to
getting “drunk on
words.” “I can't
forecast the future
of this part of
Russia,” Latchford
writes; “you’ll.just
have to wait until
the Slavo-Czechs
leave and our little
brown friend shows
his hand. The
Czechs have un-
undoubtedly kept
this territory from
going mad. And
when that does
happen you can
guess who is going
to ‘restore order.’
The Czechs, by the
way, are, as sol-
diers, the real Mac-
kay.”
Died at Perth, Francis Arnold Moseley,
late Master of the Supreme Court, at 07.
Born in the Bahamas, he read law 1 in Lon-
don, was called to the Bahamas Bar at 19,
and was Governor’s private secretary there
until ISBO, when the Colonial Office sent him
to Westralia as Registrar of Titles. Later
he became Master of the Supreme Court, and
held the job until failing eyesight drove him
out last February.
Alex. Hay, the Farmers’ rep. for New
England, inherited Coolangatta, near Berry
(N.S.W.), from John Hay, sold most of it
to the tenants, and works the rest himselt.
He is also a squatter in North Queensland
and a mine-owuer in N. S. Wales. He has
studied, talked and written about farming
for 25 years, so the Hayseeds of New Eng-
land should have no difficulty in “wording
him.” He is a first-class game-shot, and
has owned racehorses, has travelled in mod
parts of the world, and served during the
war with the N. S. Wales Remount Con-
tingent in Egypt.
Of the crew of four which navigated the
Vickers-Vimy across the world from Eng-
land to Australia, three, Ross Smith. Keith
Smith and Walter M. Shiers, are S. Austra-
lians. James Mallett Bennett is a Victorian.
Captain Ross Smith enlisted in August, 1014,
and wears the M.C. and bar, the D.F.C. and
two bars, and the A.F.C. He is 26. Bro-
ther Keith, rejected in Australia, enlisted
in England. Sergt. Shiers, mechanic, en-
listed in 1915 and served with the Light
Horse, transferring in 1916 to the A.F.C.
He holds the Meritorious Service Medal, and
is fully 27. Sergeant Bennett, mechanic,
started after the enemy with the first squad-
ron of the A.F.C., and gained the M.S.M.
and the air-force medal. He’s all of 25.
Martin Donohoe, the Sydney Evening
News reporter who went off and became
one of the world’s best-known war corres-
pondents, was a major with the British In-
telligence staff in Persia, and is publishing
a book about what he saw. He is back in
England and living in Hampstead.
“Timo”: Recent Bulletin references to
Andy Thompson, the bookmaker, who has
been mentioned in the N.S.W. wheat inquiry,
and his death at Kuranda, remind me that
I was at Townsville when John Norton
brought the body of his friend south. There
was trouble over a missing telegram, and
as I had handled it I was called in to pacify
John, who was a raging tornado. John’s
burning eyes looked fiercely into mine, and
I shivered before his volcanic wrath. Col-
lecting myself after he had slightly subsided.
I was able to repeat most of the text from
memory. Now soothed and calm, John took
my hand. “Each night of this week,” he
said, “I solemnly promise that I’ll thrice
ask the Blessed Trinity that you’ll get out
of this and into something where brains will
count. Good-bye.”
EVENSONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
What though the Spring is over anil gone
Like a dream remembered when hope grows faint;
What though the ardent Summer wears on
To Autumn’s dolors of glad youth past
And AVinter’s sleets and snows?
AVe’re making the best of it, sinner and saint,
Giving a hand to the halt and lame,
Keeping our end up and playing the game,
Sticking it out to the last
Howsoever it goes.
Higgledy-piggledy down the road,
Men we have quarrelled with, girls we have kissed
(Oh, the brave rout that so gallantly strode,
Genial and junketing, ribboned and gay,
Once in the morning early!)—
Down we go, trailing into the mist
Ashenly glooming ahead.
Hey! for the dreams long dead!
Ah, but the staid hair banded and grey
That once was so roguish-curly 1
Sturdy old bones that are tough at the end,
Seasoned and tuneful and sweet old fiddles,
AVhy should we whimper as friend calls to friend
AVhile sunset is tingeing our hearts with gold
And slowly the dusk draws down?
Our heads may be grizzled and thickish our middles,
lint youth has no garnered lore,
AVell-honeyed, like that we store;
Youth cannot listen so calm and bold
t or the sough of Death’s trailing gown.
So much, ah, so much that is over and past!
Hut though the Spring has finished and gone,
And though the ardent Summer wears on,
We’re giving a hand to the halt and lame,
Keeping our end up and playing the game,
And sticking it out to the last.
x.s.w.
FRANK MORTON.


J&Zf.
5^
kb
ft?/
fS
«
s :
>;SS&
.v:*-Jwy
•'u
A
•i-irsf.
H
r.Trvt
m
?*s*
31
Us
1®
H
H
i
im®
>
m
l§
Hi
iH
■
il
INI
1
/.
HHI
■ j .
im
'V,
*3mk?6
n
an
m
s>m
mm
iis
m
tfVWJC
«!SK«
M
MB
raN^N&i
Map
gs
M
H
n
|M|
NNN
3&S
HR
HI!
’«•»?] a
w:-
M| p
«ajas^^^^awjSMfBßß)|B|ji
yy-\\
MU
i \
SliSiS>il&?B!i
:>T
ffi3
LL
«W«~
SC
life
HHHBj
mmsM
i§g|gg
■vv
*
MiBSHMSBr
NS
4/ ■
a
pvfl
H
pjjK
ilHii
V
sag
/'VY
Si
:SYT
.
1
IK
|r
y^'h' -JW- A, '<'.,
innn
</
■flß
&C*S
gs*s
nf
Z'
«
mmm
WT
ysmm
m
Hi
1 7
m
m
WWiMMI
,W»3
EWj?«S4KS@i«
IF you possess any lingering doubt concerning the excellence of Ready-to-wear
Clothing, examine “Austral” Ready-to-wear Sac Suits. By “examine” we
mean call and make a personal inspection, if that be possible.
Otherwise, take our new 80-page Art Catalogue (a copy will be sent, post free,
to you on request). Look at the illustrations! They are faithful reproductions
from originals and show the fashionable cut and style, the manifest quality and
excellent fit of the clothes.
Illustrations cannot tell you, however, of the workmanship and value of the
garments. But the garments themselves will prove these to you —in wear and
lasting, good appearance. It is the wonderful wear and service that make
the prices so reasonable.
“AUSTRAL” SAC SUITS
READY-TO-WEAR,
63/-, 75/-, 84/-, 95/-, 105)-, 115/-,
126/-, 135/-, 147/-, 155/-
A Special Concession of 5 per cent. (1/- in the £) is
allowed Returned Soldiers in Uniform on all Cash Purchases
of £5 or over.
ORDERS DELIVERED FREE IN CITY, SUBURBS
AND COUNTRY.
GOWING BROS. LTD.
EVERYTHING FOR MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAR,
- 484-490 GEORGE STREET; 3 to 17 ROYAL ARCADE;
Branch Store at 304 GEORGE STREET (near Hunter St.), SYDN EY.


»
/
The Australasian
T. & G. MUTUAL LIFE,
HEAD OFFICE BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
H. MEEKS, Esq., J.P., Chairman.
A. STEWART, Esq. J. BALLANTYNE, Esq.
W. BEDE, Esq., J.P. T. SMITH, Esq., j.P.
Assurance L,td.
EXTRACTS FROM ANNUAL REPORT, 1919.
NEW BUSINESS: 97,152 New Policies were issued during the Year,
Assuring
In the ORDINARY DEPARTMENT
In the INDUSTRIAL DEPARTMENT
£2,169,712
£2,643,218
INCOME: THE MILLIO T MARK has been passed, the Income this Year
being £1,032,568.
ASSETS: £3,482,054, of which nearly 60 per cent, is INVESTED in
GOVERNMENT AND MUNICIPAL SECURITIES.
TOTAL NEW BUSINESS £4,812,930
TOTAL ASSURANCES IN FORCE Now Amount to Over £15,000,000.
The Growth of the Society has been such that the Figures in nearly All Departments have been practically DOUBLED DU KING THE FAST FIVE YEARS.
Head Office: Cor. SWANSTON and LITTLE COLLINS STREETS, MELBOURNE.
J. T. THOMPSON, General Manager and Secretary.
Liberal Treatment.
Prompt Settlement of Claims.
Annual Bonuses.
All the best Society “Catering Functions”
:gularly carried out by the “PAVILION,” Sydney’s Restaurant de luxe. Circular Quay.
are
re
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
IN MODERATION.
LURED LEONARD: “Do you believe in getting
married?'
LURING LETTY: “Oh — occasionally!”
Possibly the Biblical injunction to forgive
our enemies wasn’t interided to apply to our
friends; anyhow’, Henry Bevern, of Mel-
bourne, and previously of somewhere in
France, nearly came to grief through for-
giving his wife too often. At 21 Henry
married a lady of 48, whose previous experi-
ence of married life, though irregular, was
considerable. Apparently the habit of being
agreeable to seductive men had grown upon
her; at any rate, her subsequent lapses were
many. As often as she lapsed Henry for-
gave her, but at last, in the lurid light of
a German flare or a shell-burst, it dawned
on him that the seventy-times-seven point
had arrived, and he went for a divorce. Jus-
tice Hood doubted whether, having started
condoning his wdfe’s immorality, he shouldn’t
lie compelled to keep on doing so to the end ;
but the Full Court decided that he had par-
doned his frail partner often enough and
gave him a chance to make a fresh start
with someone his own age.
“Billy T.”: Our Anglican Church in a
southern Melbourne suburb was three-parts
lull on a recent hot Sunday morning. Th ■
voice of the good vicar, droning a rather dull
sermon, had a soporific effect, and most of
the congregation nodded on the verge of
dreams. Suddenly there came an abrupt
awakening. The baize-covered swing-doors
from the front porch were hurled open, and
a small man dashed through :uid stood in the
aisle, looking anxiously about him, a pitiful
object with a bleeding nose. It was plain to
all that he was seeking sanctuary
from the foe who had done him this
damage; but Barlow, the hefty
warden, with what seemed to most
of us a poor sense of his Christian
duty, took the bleeding stranger by
the shoulder and put him out; and
the sermon went on. We had not
time to recover our former condition
of beatific insensibility, however, be-
fore the side door was thrown open
and the little man came furtively
in. His nose was still bleeding,
and he had now a black eye as well.
This time he plunked down in a
pew before Barlow could
get at him, and bury-
ing his face in his
hands gave way to
prayer. It was a subter-
fuge, but it worked. The
clergyman waved Bar-
low off. “The church is
a haven of refuge for
the afflicted,” said he.
“and for those that are
persecuted.” And once
more the vicar attacked
his sermon. Five min-
utes passed, and again
the baize doors were
dashed open; a human
head was thrust in, and
a raucous voice said:
“Are you goin’ to throw
out that miserable
hound, or will I have
to come in for him?”
The miserable hound
went out. It was a lady
who awaited him.
Koehncke, a well-known Adebrde picture-
dealer, just back from a long visit to Eng-
land, declares that the day of the Impres-
sionist is over:—
There is to be noticed in the Old World a strong
revulsion of feeling in favor of the beautiful. In
the conjunction of
finish and poetry
lies true Art. In
this year’s Academy
it was most notice-
able that, although
the highly-finished
pictures sold
readily, those bor-
dering on the im-
pressionistic were
left hanging on the
walls. The war
has brought men
back to reality;
they want to come
to rest with their
feet on something
solid. The post-
impressionist is as
good as dead, and
the cubists are find-
ing their way into
the lunatic
asylums. I say
that with all seri-
ousness, after a
chat with a lead-
ing London doctor.
These extrava-
gances in the name
of Art are a form
of insanity; and, so far as Art is concerned,
the world is sane again. The war has supplied us
with far too much of the hideous and repulsive.
* * * *
“Prisoner’s Friend” on soldiers’ rights: —
Father O’Donnell, writing last week in London
Morning Post, said: “I resigned my commission
in order to seek reparation in the King's Courts
against his Ministers and their minions.” It was
not necessary for him to resign his commission.
Was he illegally confined in the Tower? A civil
writ of habeas corpus would have got him out.
Did the Dublin A.P.-M. illegally arrest him? A
civil action for damages lay against the officials.
Was their malice? Another action lay in the
King’s Courts. Supposing even that he wished to
demonstrate that the court-martial which acquitted
him had erred —that it should have honorably
acquitted him. He could have sued each individual
member of the Court for damages while retaining
his commission. By civilianising himself the padre
will have to pay the lawyers a great deal more;
and he will get neither better nor worse treatment
from the Judges.
The padre’s chief grievance is evidently against
the “minions” of Dublin Castle who spied on him
and reported him to H.Q. Even if he can show
that these officers acted maliciously he will have
his work cut out if lie attempts to score over them.
In Sutton v. Johnstone (a portentous case which
ruined Sutton) the plaintiff began by recovering
£5OOO damages on the first trial and £6OOO on
the second, Johnstone having “maliciously and
without probable cause” had him arrested. The
suit proceeded to the Court of Exchequer Chamber
and from there to the House of Lords, and Sutton
went down in each jurisdiction. The point here
was that Johnstone, right or wrong, was acting in
the interests of discipline. But suppose Father
O’Donnell can show that Lieut. Blank or Captain
Dash is a virulent Orangeman, anxious to humiliate
SURE SIGN.
“Chap out there is as mad as a hatter.”
“Door fellow, what's his special rat ?”
“Goes about telling people he understands
women.”
an R.C. cleric—that, in short, his arrest was a
non-military affair— then he may win his suit. The
point was established in Dickson v. Wilton.
Viewing the situation by and large, however, I
don’t like his chances. There is hostility to the
litigating soldier in or out of uniform. A big
London law-suit is as ruinously costly as an un-
successful theatrical production or daily paper. And
even if the padre should get damages against one
of the officers, it is St. Peter’s to a Methody
tabernacle that the defendant will be penniless. No
other sort of English officer takes a job in Dublin
these days.
“Elio”: It was during the offensive of
May, 1917. The heavy and
sustained fighting had caused a
number of our fellows to he
evacuated as temporary mental
cases. A few days after we had
come out for a spell a cobber
in an artillery crowd, with the
same back name and initial as
my particular cobber Bluey,
was killed in Noreuil Gully. As
a tribute to his memory we
made a cross and set off on a
pair of borrowed mules to
erect it. Bluey. carried the
cross (w T ith his own name on
it) and I a spade. We met a
crowd of our fellows returning
from a fatigue in Vaux, and
one of them with a blank look
called out huskily, “Hey, Bluey,
what are you doin’ with your
own cross?” “Oh.” I butted in
casually, “I’m taking him up to
bury him.” We looked back
when we had gone half a mi' ■
they were still standing watch-
ing us. When we returned to
camp we were led by our ser-
geant to the M.O.’s tent. The
doctor gently began to question
us, and it took us a quarter of an hour to
convince him that we weren’t dopey.
Since Adelaide still sgts more store on
its churches Ilian any other Australian capi-
tal it naturally fights harder for the love
of God : and it is celebrating the season of
goodwill by a particularly bitter scrap
among the Anglicans. Canon Wise was
lately indicted, or whatever it is, for turn-
ing to the east when he ought, his dull
bishop thinks, to face west-sou’-west, and
for committing other similar indiscretions,
and last w’eek he was called before a tri-
bunal made up of three clergymen and two
laymen. But promptly there was an appeal
to the Supreme Court on the ground that
the new r Chancellor of the Diocese (Guy
Haleombe, in private life a police magis-
trate), who presides, is “palpably prejudiced
—a party man, a man who, in Synod and
out of it. for many years, has attacked the
very teachings and practices for which he
will now try me.” As .Tqsiah Symon has
taken off the gloves on Wise’s behalf, there
is going to be some heavy punching.
* * * *
“Ivarim Khan”: I found Solomon in
Persia. Our party was at Ilamadan, up
towards the Caspian Sea. and we had to
depend on the resources of that dirty and
disgusting city. One afternoon I sent a
“boy” to buy some sheera —a kind of syrup
made from pear-juice. Presently he re-
turned in a state of wild excitement, mut-
tering terrible curses. He assured me that
he had paid the juice-vendor, who had then
denied having received the money, and re-
fused to supply the goods. I went to the
bazaar with an interpreter, saw the shop-
man, searched the boy, gathered a crowd
and got no satisfaction. Then a Persian of
consequence arrived, and after cross-examin-
ing all parties concerned, pronounced judg-
ment. As both men swore they were right,
and as the money could not be traced, each
should contribute half the disputed sum, to
he spent in another shop. This seemed to
satisfy both parties, and the case was
settled accordingly.
“S.”: Two Melbourne suburban candi-
dates were assaulted with eggs during the
recent campaign, and more would have suf-
fered the yolk had it not been for the scan-
dalous pric£ of ammunition. On the second
occasion, when the third egg had been
thrown, a huge man in the front seats arose,
and his bulk and bovine voice enforced
silence. “This is over the odds!” he thun-
dered. “Somebody is throwing fresh eggs!"
* * * *
“Clancy”: In the days when I was a
Kiwi Lancer in Cairo, I dined with a Syrian
friend. It was a rash experiment. We ale
native fashion. Each to start with had a
flat cake of unleavened bread, leathery and
hollow. After tearing a hole in it you
reached out and dipped into the various
dishes and put the tucker into the cavity.
You then licked your fingers and carried on.
There were nearly 865 different dishes, and
some of them were worse than others. The
baby vegetable marrows, cooked in sauce,
weren’t hard to take, and neither were the
lentils or the beans boiled in oil. I even
toyed a little with the stuffed cucumbers;
but although hating to offend my host, I
wouldn’t come at his Arabic sausages.
“Billy B.”: There’s no doubt about it.
the Flapper has come into her own. This
morning a vision passed me at a run to
catch a tram. As she ran she dropped a
book, but she caught the vehicle and held
it steady with one amorous limb on the foot-
board and another on the roadway. A mean-
dering Digger in front of me picked up the
book —I could scent the title —and slouched
along to hand it to its owner. The im-
patient guard on the tram gave the bell
AN EYE TO THE FUTURE.
“If I ever return your ring I suppose you'll
give it to some other horrid girl?"
“Oh, no! I made arrangements with the firm
I bought it from.”
a lash-up. and the Flapper beckoned im-
patiently to the Digger. “Hurry.” she
called. And the fool did as he was ordered.
(.Continued on page 18.)
THE VIRTUOUS NARK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Addressing the inter-State conference of the Con-
gregational Union, the ltev. G. W. Thatcher said
that the Church was losing its grip on the people.
This had possibly been brought about by the con-
stant solemnity of the parson. Ministers should
adopt a more cheerful outlook and enter more
heartily into the affairs of everyday life.”- —News item.
Christians, awake and sound the cheerful trump!
The world s no more for gloom prepared to pay :
For those who so desire may get the hump
Free, gratis and for nothing any day.
There’s no necessity to purchase pews
In which to have a private fit of blues.
Tall tales of Tophet cannot send a thrill
Through thousands who have recently been there ;
Of melodrama we have had our fill,
Staged on a scale to drive to dark despair
Those who, with painted Shcols, won much gold
And approbation in the days of old. _
The sun is dancing fox-trots on the surf,
Gay ragtime psalms the wanton breezes sing;
Youth seeks to snare joy’s stipend on the turf,
Uplifted by the anthems of the Ring;
The Devil seems a dear familiar friend,
Who’ll drink and dance with us until the end.
The journey from the cradle to the tomb
Is but a short one, over in a wink ;
The world is just a large refreshment room
In which we snatch a sandwich and a drink,
And tip the bloke who brings along a pack
Of cards and puts our luggage in the rack.
The dismal traveller who stands aside,
Frowning with disapproval on our game,
And rarely speaks, except when moved to chide,
Croaking “Beware!” or “Have a care!” or
“Shame!”
But serves to mar a pleasant journey. He
Will get r:o cash gratuity from me!
VICTORIA.
HARRISON C.


5^
m
-Q
*0 * J. >o
y;;;i;=i
■WfP*
ft#/2
/
I
r
Cut out this Coupon and fill in your name
and address hereunder, and by return mail
will be sent catalog illustrating Pianola
Piano, explaining fully its advantages and
easy terms of payment.
Name ;
Address
The Happiness to be’
IN the making of your home and the realising of your happiest aspirations, must
necessarily come foremost the careful selection of the means for entertain-
ment. Beautiful music helps to make a beautiful home, and adds to it the
attractiveness otherwise conspicuously absent. Music brightens, harmonises,
inspires, and adds to the daily routine of life a pleasant change and an ideal
recreation.
Choose as so many have chosen —
The PIANOLA PIANO
and you find in it the best the world can give. The evolving of this splendid in-
strument, and its present state of perfection has taken a long time- —but it has been
worth all the effort. Unlimited capital, time and skill have been concentrated in
its production, so that you have in this Pianola Piano to-day exclusive benefits and
pleasures that it alone can give.
It is so easy too to purchase the Pianola
Piano, because of its wonderful value, and
the convenient terms of purchase. You need
not let finance interfere too much with your
decision, nor outlay a large sum at once. A
first payment of £2O to-day will bring to you
immediately the beautiful Pianola Piano and
all its pleasures. Silent Pianos accepted in
part payment.
The “Pianola” is available in the Steinway, Steck,
Aeolian, Stroud and English-made Weber Pianos.
SPECIALLY NOTE:—"PIANOLA” is the registered
trade mark of the Pianola Company designating the
product of this Company only.
WARNING:—The use of the word Pianola upon or
in the promotion or sale of any other Player-Piano
Is misleading and illegal.
The PIANOLA
Company Pty. Ltd.
“ .4BOLIAN ” Registered Trade Mark
“ The Centre for the World’s Greatest
Achievements in Musical Instruments ”
384 George St., SYDNEY
I
iW
i
S A
n
//mi
*
iIV
H»
K
i i
?
$
v?
>v
=^7
12827


:■> :
H
>V T. v! : V
IMDS
GIN
MM A
m
I
□
n
jvoov
jz^jaC
woiv*
PURE
MALT
IJoUL Like it,
-%ti io mellow.
To meet the
demand
TOOHEYS
Have brewed a
Special Stout
Equal to Imported.
TRY IT.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
“Hamer”: The general want of knowledge
of law among officers who constituted courts-
martial had one effect not mentioned by
“Prisoner’s Friend.” If they frequently
“crimed” innocent men, they were also easily
THE PERILS OF THE DEEP.
“I'm awfully afraid of the undertow here.”
“Why, is this beach particularly unsafe?”
“ It's not that, but you never know who the
life-savers are in a place like this!
Wouldn’t it be dreadful to be saved by
the butcher-boy !”
bluffed by bush lawyers into acquitting men
who were certainly guilty. Personally I never
got a bad mark in my pay-book; yet it might
very well have been painted with red ink.
At one time, after I had got into disfavor as
a result of a letter to G.O.C. which dis-
turbed a little clique of overbearing officers,
I was before orderly-room four times in
pursuance of an effort to “get” me. The
fourth time there was a real offence upon
which I might have been crimed —being out
of bounds. Certainly the intention was to
hand me out severe punishment, and to make
it look less conspicuous the penalties of the
men who faced the orderly-room ahead of me
were raised to an absurd height: but I gave
COMING AND GOING.
“Y’ know, my husband is so jealous.”
“How absurd! Mine isn't.”
“Dear me! How humiliating!”
the C.O. a little argument on conflicting
orders to go on with. As it was a matter
of conflicting orders that led to the trouble
in which the comfortable clique aforesaid
found itself (included in the trouble was
the loss of his job by a second in command),
this made my judges think hard; and in
the confusion caused by that unusual ex-
ercise the fact that there was a real charge
against me was overlooked. I was merely
admonished; but the poor beggars whose
penalties had been put up in order to make
mine look inconspicuous had to suffer their
outrageous punishments.
“Greentape”: Apart from the question
whether the tarring and feathering of J. K.
McDougall, ex-M.H.R., in Ararat district,
was just or unjust, the trick employed to
get hold of the alleged writer of the object-
ionable doggerel cannot be too strongly con-
demned. Since settlement started farmers
or hut-occupiers living near the road have
invariably been ready, when roused, to give
a hand to a traveller who has got into a fix
with his horse-drawn or petrol-propelled
vehicle, and wife or daughter has in many
cases been hospitable enough to offer a
snack and a cup of tea and, where circum-
stances called for it, a shakedown. Now
that hospitality has been abused and a car
break-down frame-up has been resorted to
for the purpose of decoying a man from the
family circle on to the roadway, when the real
purpose was to carry him off, what chance
is there of a traveller in genuine distress
getting help from a cocky? The women folk
will apply the veto, even if the man is will-
ing, for they will dread some private grudge
being gratified. The returned soldiers who
took part in the ragging, and especially the
two or three who supped with the family,
spoiled their protest by the way in which
they carried it out.
* * * *
“2175”: The dear Archbishop of Canter-
bury was over in France, and decided to
carry words of comfort to us poor Digger-
fellows in the compound at Poulainville. He
talked about Faith —it was all faith, faith,
faith! “What is there left in life when
even hope has fled ?” he asked; and paused.
Our incorrigible helped him out. “Van
Blong!” he said cheerfully; and the pro-
ceedings never really got serious again.
* * * #
“Gouger”: During the afternoon of the
second battle of Gaza, while dodging the
ceaseless shell-bursts, I flopped down behind
a dead camel as the only shelter available.
Two other men were there before me; but
they needed no cover now. One was a Maori-
lander, the other a hard-faced Aussie. Both
men had been shot through the temple, and
they lay with their faces turned towards each
other. Between them stood a water-bottle, and
lying on the baked ground was a penny. No
need to tell a man they had tossed up for the
last drink. Perhaps in the excitement of the
toss they had forgotten. Anyway, there was
a little round hole in each man’s head.
* # * *
“Jake B.”: One of the best deceptions of
the war was practised, quite unconsciously,
by Fritz. It used to happen every time our
aeroplanes attacked a Hun balloon. The
pilot who was detailed for a balloon strafe
didn't regard it as the cushiest job in the
world. As soon as his intentions became
known to the enemy, all kinds of frightful-
ness in the form of Archies and tracers
would be heaved at
him from the elabo-
rate ground defences
which they invariably
had -around their gas-
bags. The things that
were considered worst
of all, though, were
known as “flaming
onions.” These were
large fireballs, and
they would suddenly
appear out of no-
where and seem to
follow the machine all
round the sky. It
wasn’t till after the
Armistice that a Hun
artillery-officer in Aix-
la-Chapelle gave us
the oil about them.
They were merely
range-finders for the
anti-aircraft batteries.
Fitted with a time-
fuse, each would burst
into flame at a known
altitude, and thus en-
able the batteries to
gauge the height of the
machine. They were
not aimed at the
attacking machine. In
fact, unless a machine
had the rotten luck to
fly right into them,
they were quite harm-
less. Our Intelligence
may have known all about these things for
years; but they took good care that the in-
formation didn’t reach the people who were
most concerned.
* * * #
“Padjud”: One of the whitest elephants
of the Commonwealth radio service is the
station at Wyndham (W.A.). As a link
in the so-called “daylight chain,” and to
maintain communication with the Northern
Territory in case of telegraph interruption,
this station was to work Darwin (about 200
miles) and Broome (250 miles) at any time
day or night. Under daylight conditions
it has never “reached” either of them. It
can’t work Darwin by
night either for the six
summer months when
cyclonic disturbances
are most likely to up-
set the land wire. As
usual with Common-
wealth stations the
power is insufficient,
but the chief factor in
Wyndham’s failure is
that the station is 18
miles inland. The
reason why this
position was chosen is
not clear. The best I
have been able to trace
is. that the engineers
were enthusiastic duck-
shooters. Cartage, of
course, cost and still
costs bags of the
people’s coin. Instead
of continuing the ex-
pensive futility the
station should be taken
down and transported
to the coast. Ample power could be got
from the meatworks, thus saving the wages
of an engine-driver—about £3OO p.a. In a
year or two this saving, and the saving of
haulage on oil, etc., would pay for the cost
of removal.
* # • «
The Ross Smith brothers’ great wing
voyage from England to Australia recalls
that it is only 19 years since the Wright
brothers, of U.S.A., began the experiments
which are probably in the nearest relation to
the result the Australians have achieved.
After “glide” trials, the longest 622 ft., the
Wrights fitted a petrol-motor to their
machine in 1903, and made four short flights.
This ’plane was the first petrol-motor-pro-
pelled ’bus ever sent aloft. In 1905 the
Yanks made flights up to 25 miles, yet,
despite that marvellous advance, not a pur-
chaser of the Wrights’ patents could be
found amongst the Great Powers! From
1907 onward, however, a world-wide energy
developed in aeroplane building and flying.
The Frenchman Bl6riot crossed the English
Channel in July, 1909; and from then on
to the landing at Darwin last week by the
four Diggers the problem of air-travel
rapidly unravelled itself. The Australians
on their Vickers-Vimy left England on Nov.
12 and reached the Northern Territory on
Dec. 10. The actual flying time was 124
hours, an average of 85 miles an hour.
* * * *
The Westralian Select Committee which
has been investigating the workings of the
Claremont Hospital for the Insane will
probably find that it is a pretty casual sort
of place. Apparently there were patients
who could “have another” when they felt
that way or put a bit on at the races; and
it was stated in evidence that one patient
who had been dead and buried for six years
had been regularly entered up in the pro-
gress register as “Quiet and orderly,” but
unfortunately showing “no improvement” in
mental condition.
♦ * * *
“Sapper Mac” : I was riding along a road
in Belgium one day, and had just got abreast
of a life-size crucifix, when I was startled to
see the right arm slowly raised to the salute.
After recovering from the shock, I got off
my nag and made an inspection. The arm
had been sawn off and hinged, and a length
of telephone line tied to the thumb and
taken through a small pulley nailed to the
head. A loud guffaw from a neighboring
farmhouse-billet explained all.
“Copnbella”: Stories of temperance people
innocently taking intoxicants, and, not recog-
nising the symptoms and results, continuing
to take and enjoy them, are not all fictional.
The young men’s club of a district church,
picnicking at Ocean Grove (Vic.), has had
such an experience. The club is strictly
T.T., but the members like a nip in their
drink, so they took for refreshers a good
supply of the near-beer brew of one of the
local quite-beer factories. Something had
happened to the brew, and it was not long
before it began to talk. Never was such
joviality at a picnic of this dour denomina-
tion ; never were such songs sung and
speeches made; never did wit and humor so
bubble! A member of the club confessed
naively to me: “I only had a couple of
glasses, but I never felt so fit in my life!
I felt I could sing or speak or dance as
never before!” Happily the devil left in
the beer was not very devilish, so the young
men’s exuberance never went beyond an ill-
fitting joviality. But, oh, how very careful
they are going to be the next time! Sup-
pose the young women’s guild had been pic-
nicking in the next bend of the beach !
EXPERIENCE.
DOT: “Oh, yes, I know Jack has not wealth,
mother. But what is wealth, after all,
hut the mere difference between income
and expenditure?”
MOTHER: “Yes, my dear, so is debt.”
“Vie.”: The higher rate of pay of the
A.I.F. was wormwood and gall to Tommy.
Just before the Polygon Wood stunt, our
D.A.C., in common with others on that sec-
tor, were making two trips nightly from the
dump to the forward gunpits. It was
rarely, however, that more than one visit
to the dump was necessary. The second
load was generally collected from the road-
side where Tommy had deposited it, his
contention being that we “six-bob-a-day
blankers” had more right to risk Jerry’s
shrapnel than he. The Diggers were grate-
ful. It meant that their nightly job was
finished a good two hours earlier.
IN THE GOOD TIME COMING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A rowdy section interrupted the candidate.”
•—Daily paper item.
There was silence to the ceiling as the great man
rose to speak
With his feet in first-position and a jujube in his
cheek;
And a sigh of adulation—it was all the law allowed—
Came shyly from the stillness as he kissed his hand
and bowed.
Bowed to the chairs below him, where the lady-
leaguers sat,
All shapes and scents and sizes, under every sort of
hat;
And the Sons of Revolution in the back seats, grimly
dumb,
Strained at the leash of silence, all most miserably
mum.
Not a Ju'ss of disapproval, nor one howl of “Rats!”
or “Rot!”
Disturbed the solemn silence of that truly placid spot.
No roar of approbation, since the statutes don’t
permit,
Arose from the assemblage when the speaker scored a
hit.
When gushingly a girleen, with her feelings all a-fizz,
In a sudden spasm gurgled, “What a perfect dear he
is!”
lou could have heard a hairpin drop for yards and
yards around
As a big cop got his notebook out, and opened it,
and frowned.
And when a reckless rebel interrupted with “Oh, fie l”
A ready-witted John discreetly plugged him in the
eye.
And a dozen more got round him and removed him,
neck and crop,
While the chairman moaned, “Disgusting! Let us
have free speech or stop! ”
The candidate, unflurried, cool, and calmly as could
be,
At last ran oil the final spool of his new policy—
The policy, of course, beyond all peradventure best
For this his own beloved land. (No cheering, by
request.)
No coarse, illegal groans and hoots, no cheerful cries
of “Hear!”
Saluted him—no malefactor’s loud voice rose to
jeer;
The lady-leaguers gently loosed a soft sigh of assent,
And the candidate stood, glowing, with his proud
head proudly bent.
Then, as the silent people tiptoed forth into the
street,
The chairman uttered, underbreath, in accents mild
and sweet,
A simple benediction on the business of the night
And stole away... .A stealthy hand crept up and
quenched the light.
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


&
*
y
m
0 end
ji :
V'
n
m
r
©
K
cm
On State Occasions
Neither seasons nor occasions limit the usefulness of WILLYS-KNIGHT
MOTOR-CARS. They have a dignity and refinement which stamp
them as distinctive.
Performance has proved the WILLYS-KNIGHT sleeve-valve engine
superior to all other types. Instead of having clashing poppet valves
it has sleeve valves which slide up and down between cylinder wall
and piston, regulating with precision intake and exhaust.
WILLYS-KNIGHT engines improve with use. The small amount of
carbon accumulated serves only to build up the sliding surfaces to
glass-like finish. Powerful and flexible, with accurately-balanced
reciprocating parts, the longer they run the more smoothly they run.
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS—
GARRATTS LTD., Sydney.
KELLOW-FALKINER PTY. LTD., Melbourne.
AUTO-CARS LTD., Adelaide.
EAGER & SON, Brisbane.
ANDERSON & ADAMS LTD., Perth.
H. G. HEATHORNE & CO. Ltd., Hobart.
A. HATRICIi & CO., Wanganui, N.Z.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION. Christchurch, N.Z.
THE JOHN N. WILLYS EXPORT CORPORATION
165 Broadway, NEW YORK, U. S. A.


SG&WO%
•’* EXTRA HIGH GRADE/ *
SMOKING TOBACCO
Sliced Plug or Ready-Rubbed
is the Original Tobacco of
this style.
Does not bite the tongue.
In tins from all Tobacconists.
2]
Hotel c/e Luxe .
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL. Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS, surrounded by NATURAL
BUSH.
25 NEW BEDROOMS built over the water —
every room looking out to the Heads.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty. Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from Mos-
man. Amphitheatre Swimming
Baths. Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Tariff from 12/6 per day or
£3/10/- per week.
Tel. Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
A Signal Success
&
eorgelV
whisb&
The TOP-NOTCH Scotch.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
A SIMILAR CASE.
FIRST KID : “I know a. bloke whose father’s
been sworn into the Upper House for
life.”
SECOND KID : “I betcher ’e never did any-
thin’. It’s them police—me father nearly
copped out once same way."
“Pick” : In the icy streams that spill into
the Murray and Snowy rivers from the lonely ridges
of Mt. Kosciusko, lives a small trout not found in
any other part of Australia, and never descending
below the 5000 ft. level of the ranges. The little
fellow is leaden-colored, mottled with brown, and
grows sin. short. The rare angler of that upland
region may catch mountain trout with a bent pin
baited with fly, but the amiable little fellow makes
so little fuss about his capture that it isn’t sport,
and, though tasty when fried, his lack of weight
makes the trouble of collecting and cooking him not
worth while. There is more interest in observing
his schools at play in the clear pools, foraging in
the shallows, or battling to ascend the swirls and
rapids. Lessons in gymnastics may be learned by
watching his backward somersaults over the
cataracts. Similar fish inhabit the high mountain
brooks of Tasmania and South America, a fact
that leads to the surmise that once South America
and Australia formed a continuous continent stretch-
ing across the South Pole. Perhaps some abo. who
was about at the time might verify the supposition
and set the geologists at rest.
“Kitty Kitty”: Better than any buckjump
rider yet mentioned in The Bulletin is Andy Deboe,
who gave a great display of his skill in the Tam-
worth (N.S.W.) saleyards about 30 years ago.
Mounted on a wicked outlaw, he unbuttoned his coat
and waistcoat, threw them on the ground, cut a
pipeful of tobacco off his plug, then filled and lit
his pipe, the brute protesting all the while.
“Friday Island”: How far south do
turtles wander? I once saw a big fellow of the
greenback variety (Chelmia mydas )
swimming off Wilson’s Promontory (Vic.).
The greenback is popularly termed edible,
*in contradistinction to the shell turtle
(Caretta imbricata), which the Torres
Strait islanders consider poisonous. I
have seen nothing in the literature on
the subject about this poisoning. The
natives consider that it comes from the
bursting of a small green bag when cut-
ting up the turtle. They are wrong.
The bag is merely the gall-bladder, the
contents of which act only as
a purgative. Probably an
alkaloid is responsible for the
trouble —as in certain mush
rooms. Intense collapse due
to depression of the heart,
profuse sweating, contraction 1
of the pupil, with hardening
of the eyeballs, vomiting and
purging are the symptoms.
The carapace of the green-
back when varnished makes a
good firescreen. The carapace
of the shell turtle, of course,
is more valuable, the bette' -
varieties bringing up to 30s.
per lb. unpolished. Torres
Strait turtles are generally
caught at night on the beach
when they go ashore to lay
eggs. In the Spring mating
season the islanders catch
them swimming on the sea.
surface. The fisher, scorn-
ing sharks, dives from his
cutter and passes a line round
the amorous pair. When
caught turtles are kept alive
in a pen, a staked-in-swimming bath, and fed until
such time as they may be needed for a feast.
* * * *
“C. Coral”: In the Torres Straits a
young man who commits an impropriety with a
lady has frequently an unhappy time afterwards.
One of his chief dreads is that a spell will be cast
over him, consequently he is very circumspect when
he goes through the bush to his garden. His
imagination conjures up lurking forms behind every
tree, and to his excited fancy the richly-marked
croton-leaves are the faces of avenging spirits. The
one most to be dreaded is the spirit who is popularly
supposed to hurl an invisible stone. This missile
hits the target on the back of the neck with suf-
ficient force to stun. The “spirit,” of course, is
another boy who has been waiting a chance to
get in his fine work, but the victim immediately de-
cides that Nemesis has delivered its ultimatum, and
flees for home to submit himself to the inevitable.
Being absolutely convinced that there can be only one
eliding, he pines away and dies.
• # * *
“McNorth” : Black sister in the Far North
has her own way of having a row. I was sitting
on the verandah looking down the beach to where
the fires of the blacks’ camp glowed. The tropic
night was very still, the only sounds the lazy lap-
ping of the tide and the occasional wail of a cur-
lew. Suddenly there was a clamor of yelling humans
and barking dogs. I slipped out and went to in-
vestigate. In the centre of a circle of small fires
a pair of young gins were standing up angrily to
one another. Both were stripped to the waist, the
firelight revealing the tribal markings on their
breasts. Their high falsetto voices sounded clear
above the shouting of the men and the yelping of
the dogs. In a weird mixture of beche-de-mer Eng-
lish and native words they were hurling insulting
epithets at one another. Each girl was striking
her naked loin with her curved elbow in such a
manner as to bring forth a hollow sound. Stand-
ing in the shadow of a she-oak, I waited for the
end of the overture. But the gins were in no hurry
to get down to real business. They glared at one
another, spat on the ground, screamed and swapped
compliments of a most impolite character, the crowd
grunting and groaning an accompaniment. During
a momentary lull I learned that each of the prin-
cipals accused the other of being less immoral than
usual. For a full 15 minutes they circled and
threatened and shrieked. Then suddenly the row
stopped dead, the gins sat down and the night re-
sumed its solemn brooding.
* * * *
“Flinderino”: To be candid with “Ragar”
(B. 27/11/’l9), who wants to know the
length of the largest crocodile captured in Aus
tralia, let me advise him that his friend up north
who slaughtered 40-footers would make an excellent
politician. Big Ben, a Fitzroy River saurian, was
considered an outsize at 231 ft. Ben went to
London for exhibition purposes. The Johnstone
and Pioneer rivers have produced several similar
specimens, and the largest was a 25-footer captured
near Proserpine. A “big pfella” croc., thickly
coated with oysters, has lived contentedly for many
years at the mouth of a creek near Cape Grafton.
When at the Yarrabah aboriginal station a few
years back I tried to scrape acquaintance with this
old cayman, but he submerged before I could run
out the tape-measure.
“Larry”: This is how to settle worms
in horses. Keep the nag away from feed and
water for, say, a night after having given him a
drench of three packets of Epsom salts in a quart
of water. In the morning give him two quart
bottles of sweet milk. The worms, having been
deprived of sustenance, will go for the cow juice
like a Jew for an easy deal, and will then burst
like Freetrade ought to.
ONE OF JOB’S COMFORTERS.
“For the love o’ Mike, boss, spring us a
sprat. I ain’t ’ad a rum for four days."
“Y’ aren’t missin’ much. It’s more’n half
water now."
“Caloola”: Is there any bush cure for
the bite of the red-backed spider? Most bushmen
fear this evil-looking thing, believing it to be as
dangerous as a venomous snake. Tobacco finely chop-
ped and applied to the bitten part is said to afford
some relief, but the general belief is that a doctor’s
aid is always advisable. I have seen only one
person bitten by the red-hack, and he died soon
afterwards. He was a rouseabout on a station near
Young (N.S.W.), and he was nipped on the abdomen.
I also saw a terrier chase a bunny into a log and
come out with a red-back clinging to his ear. The
hanger-on was removed and Fido seemed none the
worse at the time; but the next morning his
funeral-notice was posted up.
* * * *
“Zanthus”: Our platypus and porcupine
are tough morsels for the Darwinian school of
evolutionists. These crea-
tures do not seem to have
evolved worth a cent for
long ages. Yet the struggle
for existence and the compe-
tition of higher types has
not worried them. The
echidna holds his own re-
markably well, and the
platypus better than some
of the more highly organ-
ised marsupials. Both go
on laying eggs and gener-
ally acting as missing links
to prove that once a form
is in harmony with its
environment it can rub
along first-rate without
evolving any more. Of
course through the
ages up to a couple of
centuries or less ago
these archaic living-fossil
types were in a “protected
area,” but they had the
marsupials alongside them
all the time as more
highly organised types,
though the higher mam-
mals were mostly lacking.
“Binghi” : A job that the abo. has a great
aversion to is that of awakening a sleeping fellow-
nigger. He would not dream of shaking the sleeper
into wakefulness or roaring at him till his voice
penetrated the death-like intensity of slumber that
is a characteristic of the race. No; at the last
possible moment he stealthily approaches and kneels'
or sits on the ground a little distance off. Then
he will utter the sleeper’s name in a voice little
louder than a whisper, repeating the name time
after time. Perhaps he will reach out and place
a tentative finger on the man’s shoulder. After a
time, the repetition of his moniker penetrates to
the sleeper’s consciousness, and he slowly awakens.
One old savage who was more or less unreliable in-
formed me confidentially that this reluctance to
arouse a person was due to a belief that when a
man sleeps his spirit goes for a walkabout. The
danger of a sudden awakening was that the wander-
ing soul might be too far away to get back to the
body in time.
“Bright”: Don’t agree with “Lou” (B.
20/11/’l9) when he says that the weightiest
skins come from the rabbits caught in the Upper
Murray country. Ido not think that the few degrees
of difference between the cold on the mountains and
other parts make any material difference in the
amount of fur grown by bunny. I have frequently
caught rabbits in the flat, warm stretches of mid-
Riverina in winter time whose overcoats went four
to the pound.
- “Bad Australian”: lie long Vic. place-
names. Peg me one ahead of “Eccles’s” Boomah-
noomoonah (B. 27/11/’l9), with Naringalingalook.
A learned hatter who lived on a neighboring creek
told me that the name may be freely translated as
“Fish that hums in the sun.”
“Larry”: “Jobber’s” nominations (B.
9/10/’l9) for the sheepdog championship are duds
alongside an old warrior of mine named Thief.
One day 1 was punching a mob of calves along the
road from the saleyards. They had been poddied
on the bucket, and kept trying to break hack. The
Thief stuck to me till we reached a part of the
road fenced on both sides; then he chucked it, and
went for his life. While I was still on my knee-
bones praying I saw the old 'un galloping back. He
passed me a pitying look, went straight to the
lead of the poddies, and, after a turn up and down
the front, trotted for home. The calves chased
him like a battalion of Diggers after a Hun. When
I arrived home the Thief was holding the calves
at the gate. I then discovered that when he cleared
off he went to the butter factory and dipped
his tail in the cream bucket. He is just a plain
dog, but he has initiative.
* * * *
“Riverina”: Years ago, on the stations,
we used to have quart-pot boiling competitions. At
the word “go” we built fires and lit them, filled
the billies, set them on and the man who engineered
the first “boil” won. It was good sport, especially
when the finishes were close. As in other com-
petitions some performers were wonderfully efficient,
and lifted the tobacco prizes with irritating fre-
quency. The scientific building of the fire was
the main thing, but the age and shape of the
vessels were also factors.
“C.H.1.”: Re “Phil Harum’s” fleece ex-
hibit (B. 2’7/11/’l9) —381 b. from one jumbuck with
staple 15in. long in places. There is on view in
shearing-contractor Curley’s office at Cootamundra
(N.S.W.) a staple of Lincoln cross 22in. long. The
sheep weye shorn by him in the spring of 1911,
and did not appear in the shearing pen again till
this year, having been lost on the Tumut Hills.
The skirted fleece weighed 421 b.
* * * *
“Nor’-West”: The little grey-speckled
ground-tit of the ridges on the N. S. Wales table-
lands is the only bird I know that lays an egg
approaching the color of red. Recently I found a
nest built on the ground under an overhanging rock
with three purplish-red egg 3 in it. The nest was
shaped something like the tomtit’s, made of grass,
and was lined with soft bark and rabbits’ fur.
COMPANY.
THE PARSON : “My good man, you are on
the way to hell."
THE REPROBATE : “Glad o’ your company, oV
boy—’s yours wine or women?"
“Mulga” : Some sheepmen have found this
effective in keeeping the bot-fly from laying its eggs
in the jumbuck’s nostrils. Bore a number of, say,
two-inch holes in a log, and then tar the surface.
Fill the holes with salt, and when the sheep go to
eat same the tar will adhere to their noses. The
smell of tar will drive the fly away.
(Continued on page 22.)
THE CLEVERNESS OF CROTTY’S DOG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Said Crotty: “It’s a fact I own
The finest gaudy dog for cattle
Or after sheep that man has grown.
He’s big and strong —that’s half the battle,
But s’elp me, it's his commonsense
That always knocks his rival’s jack in.
In competitions he’s immense—
He’s won so many cups I fence
With post and rails the splendid stack in.
Once only did he nearly fail,
And that was up along the Grafter.
They’d held the usual monthly sale;
We had a competition after.
’Tvvas handlin’ rams, and Rover beat
Their best. He didn’t make a blunder.
The way he worked that livin’ meat
To yard and draft it was a treat,
And filled the local blokes with wonder.
Then with McGill I made a bet
That in the open, ’neath the wattle,
My dog a livin’ snail would set,
And drive the insec’ in a bottle.
Of course the drovers howled at this,
And gaily with their money parted.
I’d never known him make a miss.
We found a snail, and with a hiss
I gets old Rover fairly started.
He brought that snail up to the neck,
He worked him round it, under, over,
And presently a foamin’ wreck
Tormented with disgust was Rover.
He worked it, though, and thirty quid
Of their good oof I had to fork in.
’Twas slow, but don’t blame him. No kid,
The snail went in, but ’fore he did
lie had to push the blanky cork in t
victoria.
SILAS.


Australian Novels.
ROIStUP
The Commonwealth’s best Authors are rep-
resented in the
“Bookstall” Series of
Australian Books.
Comprises over 100 volumes, catering for
every class of reader.
EOKTANDS
EDWARD DYSON
1/- each—All One Price —I/I2 posted.
Obtainable from all Bookstalls and Booksellers throughout the
Commonwealth.
Over 2,000,000 “Bookstall” Novels have already been sold.
Write for free Catalogue.
Ten Great Sporting Novels by Arthur Wright.
STEELE RUDD’S Selection Series.
THOS. E. SPENCER’S Humorous Books.
A few other authors represented in the Series:
EDWARD DYSON:
“Fact’ry ’Ands.” “Spats’ Fact’ry.” “Benno.”
“The Missing Link.” “Loves of Lancelot.”
J. H. M. ABBOTT:
“Sally—the Tale of a Currency Lass.” “The Sign of the Serpent.”
BEATRICE GRIMSH AW:
“The Coral Queen.” “White Savage Simon.”
A. G. STEPHENS:
“Bill’s Idees.”
E. J. BRADY:
“Tom Pagdin—Pirate.”
RANDOLPH BEDFORD:
“Aladdin and the Boss Cockie.” “Billy Pagan—Mining Engineer.”
JACK McLAREN:
“Red Mountain.”
“The Skipper of the ‘Roaring
Meg.* ”
LOUIS BECKE:
“Bully Hayes.”
“Adventures of Louis Blake.”
NEW VOLUMES ADDED EVERY MONTH.
Published by
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. Ltd.
476 George Street, SYDNEY,
m
m
T2<sii
Sf\
v.«tf
[MI
■ v v W
£
&z
mm
■Aii
~V
1
-Mr
5a. v
r*v
M
!S
3
rt*'
Satisfied Woolgrowers.
Contented Flocks.
These are always found where better
judgment has dictated the use of
“Vallo.” Experienced Woolgrowers
who do not underestimate the import-
ance that attaches to the use of an
efficient Dip are one by one coming
to the adoption of this reliable Dipping Preparation.
Powder SHEEP DIP
—an Arsenical Dip of the highest possible quality is a
product in which every detail has been perfected to a
degree not ordinarily found in Dips, made from the best
raw materials, and manufactured under expert super-
vision. No matter what Dip you are using, it will pay
you to investigate the merits of “Vallo.”
Agents:
Dangar, Gedye & Co. Ltd.,
Sydney.
Walter Reid & Co. Ltd.,
Rockhampton.
Brabant & Co., Brisbane.
James Wardle & Co., Adelaide.
Malloch Bros., Perth.
W. T. MacDonald, Launceston.
Farmers’ Co-operative Whole-
sale Federation (N.Z.) Ltd.,
Wellington.
Manufactured by A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.
MELBOURNE - SYDNEY - BRISBANE
60
Why Swelter in the Summer Heat?
Men’s “TBSSOCOOL” Suits
Ready-to-wear.
Comfort in Summer is to a threat extent
a matter of wearing suitable clothes.
Let the thermometer rise ever so high,
you won’t feel the heat in a Leviathan
“Tussocool” Suit.
“Tussocool” Suits, skilfully tailored as
illustration, from strongly-woven Egyptian
Cotton, Tussorettes —which improve with
washing and ironing—plain or striped de-
signs, in biscuit, stone or straw shades, loose
facings and removable buttons for washing.
Ready- Made-to-
Sizes 3 to 7. to-wear. measure.
“TUSSOCOOL” SUITS
(3 garments) 47/6 557-
Coat and Trousers 42/- 50/-
Trousers only 15/6 17/6
Suits measuring over 38in. chest, 2/6 extra.
Suits measuring over 42in. chest, 5/6 extra.
Write for Free Patterns of “Tussocool”
Suitings and New Summer Folder.
“TUSSORA” SHIRTS.
“Tussora” is as light and cool as silk, but it wears
better by far. These shirts have the appearance
of best Tussore Silk, fashioned with Gauntlet Cuffs,
split sleeves and sleeve lifts, soft “Riversdale”
Collar supplied FREE with each shirt.
11/6 each < 3 for 33/9).
I
i£
ar\_
ORDER BY POST.
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
NOW READY.
SUMMER
lIXUSTRATED
CATALOG.
Free on Application.
H r**
hEVIATHAN
Corner Swanston and Bourke Streets, Melbourne.
PLEASE NOTE—WE HAVE NO BRANCHES.
BRITISH-MADE
10-inch
DOUBLE-
SIDED
3/-
EACH
(N.Z. 3/6)
0
s
10-inch
DOUBLE-
SIDED
3/-
EACH
(N.Z. 3/6)
Some Splendid British-made REGAL RECORDS.
Double-sided, 3/- each.
G 6209
. 5 Good King Wenceslas .
i O Come All Ye Faithful
Chimes and Organ
Chimes and Organ
G 6928
5 Scatter Seeds of Kindness ..
1 What Shall the Harvest Be?
The Temple Quartette
The Temple Quartette
G 7190
j Christians, Awake!
Hark, the Herald Angels Sing
The Temple Singers
The Temple Singers
G 7414
j Hold the Fort
( In the Sweet By-and-Bye
The Temple Quartette
The Temple Quartette
G 7294
5 Down Home in Tennessee
) Just a Few, Few Fusiliers
Geo. H. Elliott
Geo. H. Elliott
G 6012
5 Boys of the Dardanelles
| What Do You Think of Australia Now?
Stanley Kirkby
Stanley Kirkby
G 7270
j Boys of the Dardanelles March Band of
1 High School Cadets’ March
H.M. Scots Guards
Silver Stars Band
G 6365
J Just Plain Polks Miss Ada Jones
l You’ll Have to Sing an Irish Song Miss Ada Jones
G 6832
5 The Sunshine of Your Smile
i Wonderful Bose of Love ..
Miss Julie Dolaro
Miss Julie Dolaro
G 7249
J A liongj Long Trail
| Just a Plain Silver l,ocket
Stuart and Burton
.. Stanley Kirkby
G 7262
j Widdicombe Fair
( Richard of Taunton Deane
Kffi i
G 7368
s White Wings
I Only to See Her Face Again
Will Oakland
Will Oakland
G 6273
I Where the River Shannon Flows William Thomas
i Terry,, My Blue-eyed Irish Boy llliam 1 homas
GWI
j A Perfect Day ■ • ■ • •
| Somewhere a Voice is Calling (Duet)
Frank AVebster
Grace Kerns and H. Stuart
G 7412
5 Kate Mnldoon
| Macushla
William Thomas
William Thomas
G7OlO
i Honest Toil March Alexander Prince—concertina
( No Surrender March Alexander Prince—concertina
G 6220
S Spring Song—Mendelssohn
l Berceuse de “Jocelyn” ...
A. Stroud Ilaxton—violin
A. Stroud Haxton—violin
G 6167
J Kiss of Spring Waltz
1 Scented Koses Waltz
Regal Orchestra
Regal Orchestra
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR REGAL RECORDS—
SYDNEY N.S.W. —Grafonola, Ltd., Daking House, Bawson Place.
MELBOURNE. VIC., and TASMANIA.—Messrs. Hugo Wertheim Pty.,
Ltd., 173 William Street, Melbourne.
BRISBANE , Q. —King and King, Ltd., Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A. —Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street.
PFBTH W.A. —H. R. Firth, Royal Arcade.
arrKLAND N.Z. —Arthur H. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street.
WRT LINGTON, N.Z. —Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z. —Webley Sons & Gofton, Ltd., 213 High Street.
DUNEDIN, N.Z. —W r «6ley Sons & Gofton, Ltd.
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
'may be
I obtained.


THE
DURABLE
TRADE, tark
DURABESTOS
The great difficulty in procuring: the many kinds of Building: Materials
in the various trades and the skilled labor required is a serious
problem for the Home Builder.
DURABESTOS, the ASBESTOS-CEMENT SHEETS and SLATES,
has solved this problem for building the home with the very least of expert attention.
Any tradesman can erect a DURABESTOS Building. So sturdy, so simple, that it gives the utmost good wear-
year in and year out —that it is indeed “The Durable,” because of its satisfying Reliability and Permanence.
Booklets describing the method of walling and roofing with Durabestos, together with samples, post free.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED,
Manufacturers,
Head Office: Baptist Street, Redfern, N.S.W.
Postal Address: Bos 474 G.P.0., Sydney.
56 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
243 Collins St.,
MELBOURNE.
Currie St.,
ADELAIDE.
Lord St.,
PERTH.
Amelia St.,
BRISBANE.
Macquarie St.,
HOBART.
St. John St.,
LAUNCESTON.
“Bad Australian”: I have seen thousands
of nullas used by binghis as projectiles in war and
in the chase, but never on the “cannon” or
“ricochet” principle as described by “Pick” (B.
a7//11/’l9). When the gins and piccaninnies and
mangy dogs shoved the wallaby, the wallaroo, the
kang-rat, the ’melon, the bandicoot and similar
DOOMED FROM HIS BIRTH.
DAD (returning from a visit to the graveside of a son who had died recently, aged 60)
“Mother, he was always sickly. I never did think we would rear him.”
great natural resources out of a patch of scrub or
swamp-grass, the bucks who were waiting at various
points of vantage always hurled the nulla straight
at the needed food supply, the weapon whirling
end over end in a perfectly straight line, as in
tomahawk-throwing. The butt-end usually connected
with the game first, but at times the sharp-pointed
grip-end did the business. Our learned brother’s
description of the rebounding nulla, its unerring
strike and its extreme velocity, is so astounding
that I am moved to inquire further. When black
brudder is operating in scrub, what formula does
he use for calculating the various deflections made
by the weapon from the first bounce until it finally
connects with the target? Is the same or a modified
formula used in open forest? When the game is
pursued on a flat, treeless plain, does Jacky carry a
log, a tree, or a small sandhill to play the cannon,
or does he get his bounce off the Polar regions of Mrs.
Binghi ?
“Mulga” : Re the discussion in The Bul-
letin as to the hardness of certain timbers and the
damage they cause to axes. A lot depends on know-
ing how to sharpen an axe, and also in understand-
ing how to scarf a tree. No experienced axeman in
Queensland would grind his douglas for cypress-pine
timber as he would for ironwood or gidya. For the
former he would use the “half moon,” or long
grind, which puts a long, sharp edge on the cutlery
and is suitable for timber that is free. To use an
axe ground thus on gidya would mean its im-
mediate ruination. The short or straight grind is
required for assaulting that vegetable, the axe being
ground back about an inch, which will leave a small
shoulder on it and thus prevent it from gapping in
very hard timber. For timbers such as myall, box,
ironbark and mulga a grind between the two is
necessary. There is no question as to which is the
best way to scarf a tree. The up-an-down cut stands
alone. Not only is it by a long way the quickest,
but as the wood flies freer, there is very little
wear and tear on the axe, while the chances of
jarring the hands are practically nil.
“45”: Of late years I have abandoned the
maul for the sledge-hammer, and find the latter
infinitely better in every respect. It soon pays for
its cost in the saving of time wasted in hunting
for wood and in making maul-heads. Lest Abos.
should bellow out about steel splinters in the eye
I hasten to assert that splinters only occur at ham-
mer and drill work, and then only once in a fisher-
man’s moon. And it’s not the striker but the
johnnie turning the drill who gets hurt.
“Gouger”: Dense gloom still holds the
great scrub when the orchestra opens up around
our camp here in Far North Australia. First to
tune up is the bright green cat-bird. I suppose
his infernally early mimicry is a challenge to every
sleepy bunch of feathers to awake. Ten minutes
later the countless trees echo back the beautiful
call of the whip-bird, while from far away down
the creek comes the whistle of a cassowary. Half
an hour later and the great black shadow of the
scrub lifts a little, sullenly dispersing at the bid-
ding of the long-risen sun. Next the Happy
Family wake up, and their lively chatter rouses
every still-sleepy thing in the scrub. The lazy,
beautifully-plumqged “bolok-a-blue” pigeon com-
mences his bass song, and the deep notes are answered
all along the mountain sides. Suddenly the whole
scrub is filled with a medley of bird-calls, though
few of the performers are seen, their shyness and
the dense foliage screening them effectually. Then
that wretch, that discord in the whole bird orchestra,
the white cockatoo, breaks in with a frantic screech-
ing that makes a sleepy man tumble out of bunk
and reach for the gun. From far away, right out
past the scrub, comes the guttural, raucous call of
the black cockatoo in the forest country. While the
billy boils the small cheeky birds of the scrub come
to perch on the galley and show their appreciation
of the doings there by winking little black eyes at
the smoke, or by giving a fancy exhibition of their
tail feathers. Some of the little beggars are all tail.
Breakfast started, these little balls of feathers, of
every color in the rainbow, quarrel excitedly among
themselves for the damper crumbs. But immediately
we pull out our pipes they’re away, to reappear
again when the galley-smoke warns them its dinner-
time.
* * * *
“Double Cross” : Does any Outbacker pre-
fer beef to mutton as a steady diet ? I lived for
one year in an all-beef region, and for the next
in an all-mutton district. The bill of fare through-
out the beef-country was limited to “roast-’r-boiled,”
dry ’ash, steak, corned-beef and stuffed bullock’s
’eart, with a bit of liver now and again. All the
time one longed for a bit o’ goat or galah. Among
the muttons we had the succulent lamb-chop and
lamb’s fry, various joints, cold corned-“flap” with
pickles and all the little side-dishes served on most
Riverina sheep-stations from the one animal; and
we never grew tired of them. All this uproar
about the high price of beef hardly interests me.
But it grieves me bitterly to have to pay 4d. for a
chop.
* # * #
“Yarrum” : Once toiled for a N.S.W. South
Coast cocky, who made life very hard. Every morning
before daylight he’d be tramping through the house
with the baby in his arms, tossing it up in a playful
way, and loudly repeating, “The baby is up before
the min! The baby is up before the min! ” That
kid was too sudden a riser for me, so I rolled Matilda
and skedaddled.
“Narran River” : Will some of you have a
good look at the next few willy-willy whirlwinds
(“booramuggas,” as our blacks call them) and settle
an argument as to whether these circular dust-storms
always rotate in the same direction as they sweep
along, and is it only an optical illusion that makes
them sometimes appear to reverse their rotation ?
Or do they actually spin round for a while one
way and then waltz the other way?
* * „ *
“Melos”: According to experiments con-
ducted by Col. Ward and others, red-flowering iron-
bark is our strongest timber. Its “proof transverse
strength” is given as 401, i.e., a piece one-inch
square, supported at two points one-foot apart and
loaded in the middle, is capable of sustaining 4011 b.
without having its fibre and elasticity impaired.
Next in strength are white ironbark (364), box
(350), green wattle (317), red ironbark (313),
grey-gum (308), forest oak (301) and bloodwood
(294). Other eucalypts range from grey-gum (285)
to spotted gum (196). Pencil cedar of the N.S.W.
Northern Rivers is listed at 245, while the magni-
ficent red is at the bottom of the class with 140.
In weight the red-flowering ironbark and the box
are on top, 731 b. to the cubic foot. Red ironbark,
the grey-gums and red mahogany follow closely,
while the other members of the family range from
69 to 56. Among the useful lightweights are green
wattle (45) and pencil cedar (49). Now you know
what to use when the missus wants you to repair
the spring-cart.
* * * *
“Pick”: Along the swampy gullies and
mountain streamlets of the Southern Monaro
Range (N.S.W.), amongst an interminable pro-
fusion of flowering native plants, grows the wild
bean. A hardy-looking, tiny-leafed shrub, it blos-
soms from early November to late February, a gor-
geous blaze of variegated red, pink and yellow;
and the best show of the landscape gardener couldn’t
excel the glory of a hillside clothed with it. When
the flowers are shed the plants again become beauti-
ful with their loads of moss-green pods. They
contain kidney-shaped beans the size of apple-pips,
and more or less eatable.
* * * *
“Dux”: Remonstrated with a Maori the
other day who was busy chopping the tails off a
score of pigs. He grew indignant. “You mind
your own pizness,” he exclaimed. “Te Maori he
have te plurry ear-mark all te same te pakeha.”
“Bouragi”: There ought to be compulsory
classes for artists who illustrate Nature stories. I
saw a drawing the other day in a Sydney rag pur-
porting to illustrate the capture of turtles with the
help of the remora or sucker-fish. As any reference
book would reveal, the remora is a small, slim fish,
rarely more than 14in. long, that fastens on to the
underside of boats, sharks, etc., by a sucker di3c on
top of his flat head. The drawing showed a plethoric
fish of the Murray-cod type roosting stodgily on the
back of a turtle; and, taking the latter at 1501 b.,
his jockey should have scaled 751 b.
* * * *
“Melos”: Here’s the dinkum preventive for
blackleg. Mash a handful of garlic and mix with
a half-pint of turpentine. Inject about a teaspoon-
fu 1 s u bcutaneously,
using a knife to open the
skin behind the animal’s
shoulder, and pushing
the syringe an inch or
two deep before inject-
ing. The calf so treated
is safe from the sick-
ness, and grows quicker
than an animal which
hasn’t had the dope.
THE MIRACLE OF THE LOAVES AND
FISHES.
TEACHER: “Why did the five thousand people
wait about—why didn’t they go home
to dinner?”
BOY: “ Please, sir, they didn’t hear the
whistle blow.”
“A.W.0.”: Beat this and I’ll pay a
“square-face” for any bishop you like to nominate
Uncovered a frilled lizard’s nest the other day, and
on a careful tally the eggs numbered 59.
“Atzra” : We were burning off the long
kunei grass from around the wireless station at
Morobe, late German New Guinea, and as he darted
across a cleared space one of the boys got him with
a trade knife, thrown javelin-fashion. He was of a
dark grey color, with coarse hair, a long body about
twice the size of a large rat, head like a Captain
Cook pig, and a short, hairless tail. His four legs
were of the same length, five toes on each foot,
webbed. His tongue was long and like that of a
lizard, and he had 20 teeth, five below and five on
top on each side. He had a pouch with two tiny
young in it. The natives call him kangsee or mouree.
Does any disciple know him otherwise?
* # * *
“Cape Pork”: I witnessed, unknown to the
nigs, a most peculiar ceremony in the Gulf of Car-
pentaria district. The tribal king had been dead
a week or so. His sons and Marys had all arrived
to do his memory honor, and at midnight a shallow
hole was excavated with tomahawks. Two lines of
abos. formed up on either side of the grave and the
corpse was lowered in. The males, who each carried
a palm branch, then moved round in a circle,
chanting to an accompaniment provided by their
gins banging old tins. As each blackfellow passed,
the palm branch was thrown on the body. The de-
ceased’s heir (the present head of the tribe) then
jumped into the grave and laid himself alongside
the body, where he remained for a short while. This
was repeated three times, and then a most unearthly
row was the prelude to a fight. I don’t know what
happened after that, as I had urgent business else-
where.
* * # *
“Jim Carew”: When a Binghi passed in
his marble his wives and near female relations cut
off their hair and covered their heads with gypsum,
sometimes to a depth
of two or three inches.
The hair was placed
in the grave. The
mourning - caps were
worn for about 10
days, and then placed
on the top of the bone-
hole, together with
two or three lumps of
gypsum shaped like
emu eggs. One of
these mourning-caps
that I saw (it was
found on the Darling
in the ’seventies)
weighed a little over
91b. There are two
complete specimens in
the Melbourne Museum
which were found at
Yelta, a deserted bury-
ing-place, in 1880. I
have never been able
to find out the meaning
of the custom of put-
ting the hair in the
grave, or what the
representation of the
emu eggs signified.
“Jim Carew”: In northern Westralia —
that is, from the Murchison to the De Grey—
fair hair used to be common among the Binghis.
On the Gascoigne I have seen tribes where the
majority of the women were topped off with that
pale yellow thatch which is generally associated
with the Saxon. It was sometimes straight,
but more generally curly; it was never woolly.
The skin of the natives in those parts is mostly
light brown and the type is more like the Malay
than the Port Darwin black. Is there any other
place where fair-haired Binghis can be found?
THE BREAKING OF THE DROUGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We heard it from the mailman
When he rattled into town;
“It’s rainin’ at the Ten Mile
An’ the crick’s a-comin’ down.”
I told the news to Brady,
An’ he passed it on to Flynn,
Who said he’d like six inches—
“lt’ll all soak in.”
The clouds hung like a blanket,
An* the air was damp an’ warm ;
We gazed aloft an’ wondered
If we’d get a tearin’ storm.
Then on the dusty roadway
Fell some raindrops light an’ thin —
“Let’s ’ave a drink,” said Bray ;
“It’ll all soak in.”
It pelted down in earnest,
And in louder tones we spoke.
“If this keeps on,” said Johnston,
“I believe the drought is broke.”
It hammered on the pub roof,
It made a joyous din,
W’e drank our beer an’ shouted,
“It’ll all soak in.”
We zig-zagged home that evening—
It was rainin’ cats an’ dogs.
The cricks were roarin’ rivers,
The tracks were boundless bogs;
But we felt fresh an’ happy,
Irrigated to the skin,
And chorusing together,
“Irr’ll all shoalc in.”
N.S.W.
AENEAS H.


THE MOTOR PICNIC
No stuffy trains! No crowded boats! Away along a route of your own
choosing to the Bush, the Mountains, the Seaside. Lucky Motorists—you are
to be envied—no time-table to worry you, freedom as to where you lunch—
and when you motor home in the cool of the summer evening, tired yet
contented at the end of a perfect day—you can—if tyre troubles have been
absent —say, “ well, it’s been a great trip! ” The success of any outing really
depends on the reliability of the tyres used. In this connection one is
always safe in relying on Australian-made ——
DUNLOP TYRES
Their dependability and staunchness under the hardest of driving conditions
place them right in front for pleasurable motoring; in addition—owing to their
reasonable price—they being cheaper than imported tyres—your motoring costs
you less when you take advantage of their service. Dunlop users know and
appreciate these facts; if you are not one of them —why not get the best out of
motoring? They offer you thousands of miles without trouble—no tyre can give
you more —few as much—and certainly not at the Dunlop cost per mile.
Obtainable in RAILROAD and GROOVED TYPES at ALL GARAGES.
* * *
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
ALL STATES and N.Z.
;
lD
I
\\A\'
M
m
ijl
C vtv
„ :\y
W
J * 'U
Y*
£
iw/i
>'» • ftX ''®B
( *1 l P
V > s* J
7
-M
' V
Aa
<sr
\
<%/
k
\
r
K
\
\
\J
9
§g§lt
m
\
I
Vi
>m> /
it)'
t f
i» »>*»*
fti
~r>
r* ¥ V
To you we extend the greetings of the
season, and all the happiness that goes
with it. For ourselves, we desire more
and more to merit, in our service, your
continued friendliness and patronage.


M
mlk
7*
iUUUUiu,.
A
JS
Since no two
beards are alike
it follows that an adjustment of the
razor-blade is necessary to meet
individual requirements.
The “Gillette” blade is adjustable.
Set it close for a fine beard—slight
turn of handle adjusts it for stubborn growth.
It never needs stropping. This is another advantage—one
of the many which maintain the supremacy of the Gillette,
now evidenced by the fact that more than 12,000,000 men
throughout the world are keen users of the Gillette—the
keenest safety-razor.
23/6 in Australia.
Look for the Diamond Trade-mark on razor and blades.
S. HOFFNTJNG & CO., LTD.,
Wholesale Agents- Sydney.
ADJUST-THE BLADE
df
BaSMwl
Give your family
the Best Christmas Gift.
With music in the home, merriment generally
follows, and with the New Edison you get real
music—not the imitation melody of the mere
talking machine. So perfect is this instrument
that there is no difference between the actual
singing or playing and its re-creation on —
The NEW EDISON
You should get full particulars of this wonderful invention —
the crowning achievement of the world’s greatest genius. Re-
creates by means of a smooth diamond point—-no needles to
change. Now, think what a delightful Christmas you will have
with a New Edison—think how your family will welcome it.
Are you not tempted to get details? Do so NOW. Write
immediately for the descriptive literature —-post free.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
liers,” wherein the Grand Inquisitor warns
the pair of young republican monarchs of the
impossibility of making everybody a some-
bodee.
Thirty years later the cynical lady wrote
of the blessed medical faculty from a place
near Brescia: —
The method of treating the physician in this
country, I think, should be the same everywhere:
they make it his interest that the whole parish
should be in good health, giving him a stated pen-
sion, which is collected by a tax on every house, on
condition that he neither demands nor receives any
fees, nor ever refuses a visit either to rich or poor.
When I recollect the vast fortunes raised by doctors
amongst us, and the eager pursuit after every new
piece of quackery that is introduced, I cannot help
thinking there is a fund Of credulity in mankind
that must be employed somewhere, and the money
formerly given to monks for the health of the soul
is now thrown to doctors for health of the body, and
generally with as little prospect of success.
Lady Mary had uo illusions about the medi-
cal faculty. She was the mother of vaccina-
tion, as far as Britain was concerned, having
been struck by the efficacy of the Turkish
safeguard against small-pox (which she
called “ingrafting”) at a time whjpn England
was ravaged by the disease. But in deter-
mining to introduce inoculation into her own
country she foresaw the opposition she'would
have to suffer, for she wrote from Adrian-
ople in 1717: —
I am patriot enough to take pains to bring this
useful invention into fashion in England; and I
should not fail to write to some of our doctors very
particularly about it, if I knew any of them that I
thought had virtue enough to destroy sdfeh a con-
siderable branch of their revenue for the good of
mankind. But that distemper is too beneficial to
them not to expose to all their resentment the hardy
wight that should undertake to put an end to it.
Perhaps, if I live to return, I may, however, have
courage to war with them.
Lady Mary did bring the invention into
fashion, despite the animosity of the profes-
sion, and now, after two centuries’ experi-
ence of vaccination, the English-speaking
world is so generally favorable to it that
doctors positively encourage small-pox scares
for the sake of the vaccination—some, per-
haps, for the sake of the fees. One may
admit, however, that in the course of the
two intervening centuries, medical practice
has grown more philanthropic.
In 1737, or thereabouts, happened the first
outbreak of the Pankhurst spirit in England,
and Lady Mary gave a graphic description
of it in a letter to her friend Lady Pomfret,
who had gone abroad: —
At the last warm debate in the House of Lords it
was unanimously resolved there should be no crowd
of unnecessary auditors; consequently the fair sex
were excluded, and the gallery destined to the sole
use of the House of Commons. Notwithstanding
which determination a tribe of dames resolved to
show that neither men nor laws could resist them.
These heroines were Lady Huntingdon, the Duchess
of Queensberry, the Duchess of Ancaster, etc., etc. I
am thus particular in their names, since I look upon
them to be the boldest assertors and most resigned
sufferers for liberty I ever read of. They presented
themselves at the door at 9 o’clock in the morn-
ing, where Sir William Saunderson informed them
the Lord Chancellor had made an order against their
admittance. The Duchess of Queensberry pished at
the ill-breeding of a mere lawyer, and desired him
to let them upstairs privately. After some modest
refusals, he swore by G — he would not let them in.
Her Grace, with a noble warmth, answered, by G—
they would come in in spite of the Chancellor and
the whole House. This being reported, the Peers
resolved to starve them out; an order was made that
the doors should not be opened till they had raised
their siege. These Amazons now showed themselves
qualified for the duty of even foot soldiers; they
stood there till five in the afternoon, without suste-
nance, every now and'then playing volleys of thumps,
kicks and raps against the door with so much vio-
lence that the speakers in the House were scarce
heard. When the Lords v T ere not to be conquered
by this, the two Duchesses (very w r ell apprised of
use of stratagems in war) commanded a dead
silence of half an hour; and the Chancellor, who
thought this a certain proof of their absence, gave
orders for the opening of the door, upon which they
all rushed in, pushed aside their competitors, and
placed themselves in the front rows of the gallery.
They stayed there till after 11, when the House rose,
and during the debate gave applause and showed
marks of dislike, not only by smiles and winks, but
by noisy laughs and apparent contempts, which is
supposed the true reason why poor Lord Hervey
spoke miserably.
Interesting evidence this of the germ of suf-
fragette tactics. The shrieking sisters who
intended to worry the House of Commons
into submission, and were only silenced by
the war, pursued their autocratic way under
a thin pretence of democratic sentiment,
whereas their models of long ago were
duchesses and similar dames of “quality,”
frankly maintaining their noble right to
enter the House of Lords and kick up a
row if their claims were not meekly con-
ceded. Contemporary judgments on the
Mary Wortley Montagu character and ap-
pearance are conflicting, but the criticism of
Time on her published letters continues to
be favorable. The material wears well, and
washes well; and, though the trimmings of
the address are old-fashioned, the cut of the
thought is enduringly smart.
EDMUND FISHER.
A Scitchel of Books
Storm in a Teacup, by Eden Phillpotts
(Heinemann, London). A simple, well-
written yarn of the doings about a paper-
mill where fine-quality paper is turned out
without the ,aid of machinery. The love
affairs of Medora fill the centre of the
stage and the characters are well enough
drawn; but the trouble is, as with a lot of
books of this class, that they hardly seem
worth drawing. A supreme _ interest of
tragedy or comedy would have justified this
novel; but there you have the reason why it
rather falls down —there is nothing to grip
you.
A Life at Stake, by Marcel Berger, trans-
lated by Fitzwater Wray (Putnam, New
York). Marcel Berger appears to be re-
garded in France as the foremost novelist
of the war. In this story he tells of “second-
hand soldiers.” Jean Darboise, with a crip-
pled arm, gained in the big struggle near
Verdun, is sent with a batch of non-com-
batants to face the terrible dangers of Dun-
kirk. The sending is against regulations
and grossly unfair, but he has no redress.
All through the book the remnants of the
doomed generation suffer and readjust their
views and feelings to suit the time. The
action of the story is not stirring, but the
tragedy is always near. It is a glimpse of
France from within; and all through the
reader feels its sincerity. The translation
appears to be excellent.
Let There Be Light, by John Enright
(Lothian, Melbourne). The Rev. John En-
right is a Presbyterian parson; he was once
the Rev. Father Andrew, Passionist
preacher. In this book he sets out to tell
"why I withdraw from the Church of my
fathers.” The volume is not sensational;
and the loud Orange person will not be stir-
red by it. On the other hand, nobody will
find it very interesting nor get much light
from it on the ecclesiastical questions it pro-
fesses to brighten. The writing is. sincere
enough, but it is heavy and a trifle dull.
m. -rr , 7 ,
TI YOMfl by 3 rs. Coralie
Ilobson (i. Werner Laune, Londo ). 1 is
is the story of Louise, who joins a repertory
company managed by Mrs. Bentinek Beau-
moiit. CL here is a, lot about the life behinu
the scenes; and it is a rather hot-nouse life
with sex always in the centre of the stage,
Louise breaks away and marries a decent
boy. Whether she deserved to or not doesn’t
matter a great deal.
The Cricket, by Marjorie Benton Cooke
(Doubleday, Page, New York). A pleasant
yarn told in loose American of a girl who
starts life by dropping down naked into her
7,7 c,, , c ,
L A y ' Paity ' f She drops from a tre-
1 p ° u ? g ior mclden *- t° 6e a
SC *j n j ’ if SIG ? oes on the Stage
and does other equally daring acts. Every-
thing is a bit hard to believe about Isabelle,
she is cheerfully mad and. marries a
soldier who glitters all over with medals,
Better to read than some better books.
The Passage of the Barque Sappho, by J.
E. Patterson (Dent, London). A posthu-
mous story of the “sea, men, ships and things
and actions thereof.” The Sappho rounds
the Horn from ’Frisco with a nondescript
crew and a skipper who develops insanity
The character of Captain Sennett with his
dream-obsession of disaster is well drawn
and some of the descriptions of storm and
calm are very fine. Patterson had a great
affection for the sea, and this, combined
with the uncommon gift of simple narration,
resulted in excellent work. His death leaves
a big gao in the line of real sea storv
writers. sea-story
“ Mynheer van Schnapps ”
Ii rom I*. E. Teppema, Consul for the
Nethei'lands :—•
I have resided in Australia six years, which is
long enough to know that the tone of “J.E.’s”
article (Red Page 4/12/’l9) is not typical of Aus-
tralian manners. As I do not wish, however, that
the public should be misled through the mis-state-
ment of historical facts and the general display of
ignorance in Mr. “J.E.’s” comments, I beg to
point out the following:—
Re Holland belonging to Germany. —Only in 1437,
when the Duke of Burgundy absorbed the Northern
Provinces, were the many obscure streams of Nether-
land history (Romans, Franks, Charlemagne, Counts
of Holland) merged in one broad current. From
that year we have the Burgundian period followed
by that of the House of Austria, the last family
to govern Holland prior to the erection of the
Republic. Surely “J.E.” is conversant with the
period of 1568-1648, the 80-years’ war with Spain,
and how we won our country and its independence
by our own valor and became a powerful republic,
whose “short” spell of greatness lasted for the whole
of the 17th and the greater part of the 18th century,
Re alleged German nationality of Monarchs con-
nected with the Orange-Nassau Dynasty. —While
stating that the grandfather of the now reigning
Queen was not a German, but William 11., I must
observe that “J.E.” would do well to study the
family tree of the reigning house of Britain. And
I might also refer him to a well-known English
authority (Harrison) on William the Silent.
Harrison gives a genealogy, from which it appears
that nearly all the reigning families of Europe
are descendants in some way or other from the
father of Europe’s most powerful 17th century
republic, which (and very much single-handed that
time) was able to hold its own against France,
Britain and the German forces, and whose Stadt-
holder was apparently good enough to be King of
Britain.
Re shelter given to the late German Emperor. —
No reproach can be levelled at Holland in this
respect unless hospitality and chivalry have be-
come vices. Only these two qualities prompted
our conduct towards an undesirable guest, who put
the Dutch Government before the fait accompli of
having crossed our borders. Holland does not en-
tertain any friendly feeling for fallen grandeur, but
she could not deny admittance, any more than to
the fugitives and soldiers of the Allied forces who
sought safety behind her frontiers.
As to the remarks concerning the acquisition o;
great colonies by Holland —which still holds tl/
third colonial empire of the world—may I be iy
mitted to say that my forefathers did not find
world, especially the East, as uninhabited as “J.. .'
would like your readers to believe? Did we not
have to drive out (successfully at that) the Portu-
guese, the Spaniards and, last not least, such brave
and enterprising competitors as the English?
With regard to the land south of the River
Scheldt, I feel confident that an unbiased reader
of the pamphlets which are in “J.E.’s” possession
will agree that, on various grounds, no claim can
and ever shall be entertained by Holland for ces-
sion of territory which has belonged to Holland
ever since the end of the 16th century, and the
inhabitants of which have no wish whatever to
join our southern neighbors.
Re National Neutrality. —The Netherlands Gov-
ernment has rigorously observed a strict neutrality
towards all belligerents.
Re National Sympathies. —The sympathies of the
Dutch population were very largely (about 90
p.c.) pro-Ally, especially pro-French, owing to the
violation of Belgium’s neutrality and the unre-
stricted German submarine warfare. This is con-
clusively proved by practically the whole of our
press.
Re blocking of Antwerp’s trade. —“J.E.’s” state-
ments are perfectly true as far as the period 1648-
1800 is concerned, the Treaty of Munster having
given us the power to do so; but is it fair to
bring this against Holland when similar policies,
which were part and parcel of the particular poli-
tical and economical systems of those days, were
applied, and in much harsher terms, right through
the 17th and 18th centuries by other nations, e.g.,
England and Denmark?
I may safely pass over the other mis-statements
concerning my country, but would like to remind
“J.E.” of what to this day has remained a classic
of English literature, namely, Daniel de Foe’s “The
Trueborn Englishman.” In the preface to that work
the following passage occurs: “Methinks an Eng-
lishman who is so proud of being a good fellow
Should be civil.”
• *»
“Melb”: Newspaper correspondents again
cry out about lustful picture-shows. This
censorship reminds me of hot-blooded Sam
Winter, once Herald editor. Almost weep-
ing, he exclaimed to a contributor (me),
“S’help me, I try to cut the objectionable
parts out of your stuff; but s’help me, I
find I’ve left all the worst in!”


*£jt§Hl
i
STORAGE
BATTERY
Willard Threaded Rubber Insulation
Get the booklets “The Wick of the
Willard” and “A Mark with a Meaning
for You” from the nearest Willard
Service Station.
The story of a remarkable storage battery
invention and what it is doing for Motorists.
In the fall of 1917 readers of national magazines read
about a new Willard, a Still Better Willard, a Willard with
a;i entirely new idea in battery construction—Threaded
Rubber Insulation.
The Still Better Willard was not an experiment—for
two years before the announcement a car builder put it on
35,000 cars. Many of those first Willard Batteries with
Threaded Rubber Insulation are still in use after four years.
What is the Secret of Threaded Rubber Success?
Insulation had always been the big problem with any
storage battery. Ordinary materials wore out before the
battery plates did. Re-insulation was bound to come sooner
or later, and when insulation began to break down the plates
were injured.
But Willard, for the first time found a practical way to
use rubber, the one ideal insulating material, by piercing
each rubber insulator with 196,000 tiny threads to permit
passage of the electrolyte.
You ought to be posted on batteries and battery
insulation, so that when you need a new battery you’ll be
sure of the best your money can buy.
. -
m
-
* *? -«** ££<*
■, ■. $& %3m £
■P
M>
-
?#:
If
»!
I'-V?
H
3 &
if I
I
tiil
J
~ ~
i
StA
; : -C ' ■
&
; ; i
ir r
HQ
lH
s!k
o
Ktw
pu


PackUpYourTroubles
Xmas comes but once a year. Cast care
aside for the Festive Season.
We offer everyone our best wishes for a
Bright, Merry Xmas and Happy, Prosperous
times during the coming year.
Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd
Sydney and Brisbane*
That Car Radiator
is Always Giving
Yon Trouble.
•K
MeSWHlllttfflft
Why not send il
to Brandt’s, who
will put it in A 1
order or make
you a new one?
We also make Motor-car Acetylene
Generators, Lamps, Carburetter Floats,
etc.
Best Swedish Carbide stocked in all
Granulations.
BRANDT BROS. LTD.,
“Radiator Manufacturers,”
236 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And 338 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
HH
XMAS
GIFTS!
A little thought will prove
to you that the “Ouoto ”
is the ideal Xmas Gift for
father and son, mother
and daughter, friends
uear and far.
A Fountain Pen is so use-
ful, and when it is an
“ Ouoto ” so lasting and
reliable that it cannot fail
to awaken appreciation.
Itruns smoothly and even-
ly over the paper—never
scratches or splutters
never gives trouble
never leaks.
Moreover you can fill the
“Ouoto” without mess —
no filler is required.
Ofioio
Pen
Self-Filling - •
Safety Fountain
Price 17/*
and in a variety of more
elaborate styles for pre-
sentation purposes. At
all Stationers. Jewellers
and Stores.
Manufactured by THOS. PE
i.A HUE & CO., I„td.. 206 nun-
bin Row, Eon don- E-C
Managing Agents Norman
Raker & I.ongburst, 50 York
Street. Sydney.
elm
«*rfT
THE GRESHAM,
Brisbane** Leading Hotel,
Ik
■MB
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust —Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES -Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS:
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited,
“Collins House,” 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Svrtne.v Asrent:
B. N. KIRK, 25 O’Connell Street.
Adelaide Agent:
C. S. STOKES, 62 Brookman Buildings.
m
a
m
The Car
for the
Owner-Driver
The All/
\Britisb.
LIGHT CAR
Send your enquiry for early delivery to Agent—
I. PHIZACKERLEY, SYDNEY.
STANDARD MOTOR CO. LTD.,
COVENTRY, ENGLAND.
THB
-*3&
~ -*CP '
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
with which is amalgamated the Colonial Bank of Australasia Limited.
OFFICE: Collins Street. Melbourne. ESTABLISHED 1858.
Authorised Cai>ital
Capital paid up.
Reserve Fund
Reserve Uability of
Proprietors
£3,000,000
1,140,000
£3,140,000
828,000
£5,000,000
Directors ; —SIR JOHN GRICE, Chairman.
EDWARD TRENCHARD, Esq., Vice-Chairman.
3. NEWMAN BARKER, Esq.
Hon. F. G. CLARKE, M.L.C.
BOWES KELLY, Esq. H. M. STRACHAN, Esq.
Chief-Manager: E. 11. WREFORD.
Devnfv Chief Manager: JAMES WILSON.
£3 968 000 i,r,...... V..../ ......... ~w . .......
sUrrlnev Offirp fiO Pitt St. Manager: R. S. GREGSON. Acting Sub-Manager; E. J. OSBORNE
Sydney G°oSi St. City Office, 350 George St. Manager: J. A G. HADLEY.
Branches in Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia, New South Wales.
LONDON OFFICE; 7 Lothbury, E.C. 2.
Chemists,
two sizes.
FfoERS/^
v?
SEASICK
Testified by Royalty. Nobility, Army. Navy, and
Airmen all over the world
All Travelling should
Guard against
SEA SICKNESS
» Mothersill’s Seasick Remedy
r is inYaluable. It positively
prevents and cures Sea, Air
and Train Sickness.
NO BAD AFTER EFFECTS.
GUARANTEED OR MONEY REFUNDED.
MOTHERSILL REMEDY CO. LTD.,
Aberdeen House, 204 Clarence St., Sydney
The Universal Dustiess Pulveriser
Grinding Mills for All Classes
of Material.
Write Us on Your Grinding
Propositions and we will
quote you for a Suitable
Machine.
Separator Screens for Super-
phosphates, Chemicals, Ores,
etc.
We also Manufacture Packing
Machines for Pilling Packets
or Tins.
Keg and Barrel Elevators.
Platform Elevators for Boxes
and Packages.
Gravity Runways or Con-
veyors—no power required to
drive.
Steel and Cast-iron
Conveyors.
The Universal Dustless
Pulveriser, Rigid and
Swing-hammer Types,
Size No. 10. with
Shaker Feed.
Flour Mill Machinery.
Mixing Machinery.
Dressing Machinery.
We can Quote you for a Com-
plete Self-raising Flour
Plant.
Friction Hoists.
Apron and Belt Conveyors.
Combined Grinding and
Dressing Plants.
Boiler Feed Power Pumps.
Suction Sack Cleaners.
Bottle-filling Machines.
Concrete- and Mortar-mixing
Machines.
Adjustable Feeders.
Factory Experts and Con-
sulting Engineers.
Schumacher Mill Furbishing Works Pty. Ltd.,
PORT MELBOURNE. VICTORIA.
Business, Robbery, etc.
Bricks are at famine prices in Melbourne,
and building is almost at a standstill pend-
ing a return to rates somewhere within
reason.
When Moses tapped the rock a jet
Of water cheered his fold.
The modern Mo taps bricks to get
A running stream of gold.
* * * *
Sale (Gippsland) grows patriots of the
practical sort —and the other sort are a delu-
sion. Building operations in the town being
at a standstill through lack of bricks, some
energetic persons got together, formed a
little co-operative co., bought a brickyard,
and are putting in machinery to supply
themselves with building material at cost
price. The outside public will pay a trine
more, but the responsible parties promise to
turn out all the bricks that may be wanted —
which is a lot more than the Melbourne com-
bine does.
“Hamer”: Statistics produced on the
woman wage-earner’s side of the cost-of-
living inquiry in N. S. Wales give some in-
teresting results. Of 101,815 women wage-
earners 7990 are married, 4720 widows and
403 divorced; and four women aged between
85 and 89 are still earning wages. Of the
total 47 per cent, are in the domestic class,
which seems to be the refuge of the woman
whose romance lias ended, 73 per cent, of
the divorcees and 72 per cent, of the widows
getting their crust in that “Primary
producers” number 249, of whom 51 are mar-
ried and 20 widowed. Not a single divorcee
has taken to primary production—which
mostly means, so far as woman is concerned,
cow-farming.
“Gleniris” : Ever know a bloke who went
nipperin’? A young one of. my acquaint-
ance, in giving me some of his experiences
in the labor market, said that he started
his career at that —explaining, when I
looked blank, that he had been employed
with a gang of sewer-excavators to do odd
jobs not big enough for a full-grown navvy.
He took picks to be re-steeled, boiled the
billies for dinner, “ran the rabbit” if the
law wasn’t looking, and so on. Nowadays
this young bloke has his own house and
land, a contracting plant and no apparent
worries, so evidently nipperin’ isn’t a> blind
alley.
* * * *
“Widgee” : Now that half-crowns are not
circulating as freely as they used to, while
florins are more plentiful, I find it pays to
make a practice of saying “Half a crown”
when tendering one in payment for goods
received —at pubs, for instance, coffee-’n’-
sandwich ranches and so on. I have acquired
this habit after three experiences, during a
brief period, of being offered change for 2s.
when my coin was 2s. 6d. In no case was
there any argument about the matter on
my demanding the extra 6d., so I conclude
that quite a lot of wage-people are system-
atically trying to meet the h. c. of 1. by
beating the other wage-slave for a bit of
hi 3 hard-earned.
* * * *
“The Pariah”: When the counter-jumper
told me that goloshes were Bs. 6d. I went
out and bought my winter’s supply for a
shilling. It was a bottle of neatsfoot oil.
Paint the soles before going out on a wet
day and your feet are safe.
* * * *
“F.H.”: Commercial aviation is making
channels for itself all over the place. A
Melbourne doctor with a week-endery in the
Macedon country is nibbling at a machine
to lift him thither on Saturdays. A Mel-
bourne land-agent is employing Captain
Vigers to attend a sale of suburban building-
blocks and drop handbills, one' being marked
as representing the deposit on a block. And
another has hired a flier to go over his sub-
division and take an aerial photograph of
the locality. The print makes a fine advt.
* * * *
“Frank Jay” from New York: —
Prohibition fell upon us with a thud that coilld
be heard from Maine to Mexico. Asa matter of
fact, with his usual apathy and eocksureness, the
New Yorker wouldn’t believe it. But when a few
Federal agents sailed into a gin-mill and started
shooting things up with automatic pistols, wounding
two thirsty citizens, the drinkers began to realise
there was really something doing. Next day when
the lid was found to be actually on, right and
tight, there was a cry of anguish. Next excite-
ment was the arrest of a number of the raiding
Department of Justice men for accepting bribes
from Bung. A district attorney told me the amount
paid by the saloon-keepers, in order that they
might be immune from interference, would probably
reach half a million dollars. No one is sorry for
the liquor-seller, who during war-time prohibition
lias been poisoning all and killing a few of his cus-
tomers. Three nips of the average stuff would make
a Sunday-school teacher walk 15 miles through six
feet of snow to kill his own mother. Incidentally, a
number of newspapers are taking anew interest in
Australia. I myself have been inundated with in-
quiries dealing with every angle of the country, and
it is at least possible that some of the population
Australia needs so much may yet be supplied through
the great American drought.
* * * *
“Don Three”: After the Armistice we ran
a telephone line between headquarters and
the Colonel’s billet —about a mile. One
morning the telephonist on duty reported
that he couldn’t raise the Colonel. When
a perspiring orderly arrived and complained
that the Colonel was cursing at his end, we
started out to look for the leak. Eventually
we found it —a length of wire 50ft. long
cut clean out. Next day the same trouble
occurred, but this time 100 yards of good
line was missing. We suspected a neigh-
boring unit, but couldn’t convict it.
That afternoon we explored the surrounding
district. We found our cable on an adjacent
farm, holding together salvaged implements
and harness; Jacques had contrived quite
a useful pair of reins from our good D 111,
and was using it, moreover, to hold up his
pants. Truly, the French are a thrifty race.
» « • •
“Ox”: Tamworth (N.S.W.) has a lady
billnoster. She carried on her husband’s
business when he sought a sounder invest-
ment for brain and brawn in other parts,
and she made it pay well enough to support
herself and at least half a dozen children.


His brow is wet with honest sweat,
He earns whatever he can,
And looks the whole world in the face,
For he owes not any man.
“The Village Blacksmith.”
□
4T*>
A
Mm
i
U<
a
"• ':, ; C
wr
B I
is?
/ /
i t
s
M:
V ..A
i i' ***
/ >/a
//AY///,.
yy
Looking the Whole World in the Face
sd
States \
Studio
IT is only a matter of degree. There is
the closest analogy between the great
company—when it is great in other
things besides size—and the simple farrier
of our familiar rhyme “ The Village
Blacksmith. ”
When the Village Blacksmith shoes his
horse, with patient skill and conscientious
care, he is as great as they—the huge
company. When the Company pays its
debts—not alone of money or of kind, but
of honor and of conscience—it is as great as
he. It. too, can “look the whole world in
the face.”
For honesty has no fixed dimensions. It is
as small as the atom and as vast as the
universe. The great Company that holds
unwaveringly to the strait path of rectitude
is but the Village Blacksmith many times
multiplied.
In point of numbers, or of edifice, the
Studebaker Company is more than ten
thousand blacksmiths—more than hundreds
of village forges. The tinkling hammer-
beats on the village anvil are swollen into
the roar and crash of innumerable machines.
The sparks that fly from the open door of the
little smithy are magnified into a volcano of
smoke and flame.
d lie Studebaker Company, cleaving as it does to a settled
policy of constant integrity, parallels, in these later days,
the honest 4 'Village Blacksmith” of a more romantic time.
And what better course can anyone pursue than to pattern
on this simple, homely figure who is the type of manly
virtue; the model of kindly strength and sunny morality?
THE STUDEBAKER CORPORATION OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED,
Head Office for Australia: 177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. South Australian Branch: 1 Gurrie Street Adelaide.
Turner Bros., 398 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Armstrong C. & M. Agency, Hay Street, Perth,
C. C. & M, A. Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbi
ane.
New Zealand: Adams Limited,
Christchurch
Palmerston North,
Timaru,
Wanganui
esMs^f


L-M-i
jffise \
ofjuxite
Begin to Wear
Them !
Hose of Luxite excel
because of specialized
methods of knitting.
For mo re than 16
gears these Hose have
amazed the public bp
their durability, and
they are just as dur-
able to-day as ever,
besides being more
beautiful
If your dealer is unable
to supply you, write us.
Indents and Wholesale thru
WALTER CATHRO
50 York Street
PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY.
fs
BIfILDOO,
CRIP
THE SELF VULCAnIZIHG
PATCH
®>\NY SIZE
BLOWOUT OR TORN PLACE
OBTAINABLE AT ALL GARAGES
PRODUCED ENTIRELY
IN AUSTRALIA.
DRAWS
OUT
THE POISONS
which cause Barcoo Rot,
Bad Legs, Sore Feet,
Carbuncles, Boils,
Poisoned Wounds,
Ulcers, Bunions,
Eczema, Piles, and
those arising from Insect
Bites.
The Proprietors of
GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT
have an absolute confidence in its un-
surpassed merits. They know it to be a
safe and perfect cure for all skin and
blood ailments; and the vast number of
testimonials received prove this.
GRASSHOPPER positively
draws the poisons which produce
these maladies out of the system.
As a tonic, liver medicine, blood purifier,
and for those who suffer from headaches, the
GRASSHOPPER PILLS
are equally effective. Do not be persuaded
to purchase any substitute preparations.
Sold by all Drug Stores and Chemists
throughout the Commonwealth.
MARTIN’S PILLS
are sold by all chemists and stores. Ladies
recommend them. Be sure you get the
genuine with the signature:
MARTIN, Chemist, Southampton, England
INFLUENZA-
Used In the Melbourne Hospitals
Brooke’s “Lemos”
The Purest Lemon Squash.
I.f any illustration appearing in Tiie
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Haaagei'i who will ftuote you price for it.
UA2
V
:'V
*
C
-r
$
«»
nr
i
i
“Power Personified”
ALADDIN used to summon his
genii when he desired to be
whisked away into other parts.
Nowadays, motorists call for Plume,
the “Magic Spirit of to-day,” when
prodigies of speed and power are
needed.
Get-there motorists “ bank ” on Plume.
They enthusiastically insist that it gives
them a greater run for their money. They
say stiff hills only go to prove how m ghty
good it is.
When next YOU turn in to fijl up, don’t
say Benzine —ask for “PLUME.”
Sold by Garages everywhere
Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Ltd.
Throughout Australia and New Zealand
PR 11
G
dfs
Table Waters.
CLEAR, COOL,
SPARKLING.
Contains Lime,
Soda, Lithia and
Magnesia.
Agents:
E. ROWLANDS
PROPTY. LTD.
Purveyors to
Vice-Royalty.
H l
USTRAUAM
V
LRowl£B§^:
taILARAT HE.L
A CONTRACT IS A CONTRACT
iiiiiimilllillllilllllllKllllUlllllllillllllllllll'lllKllll
CHEMICALS.
business is primarily that of exporting American
vJ chemicals —heavy and fine pharmaceutical products and dyes.
We are manufacturers of caustic soda, soda ash, chloride of
lime, carbon tetrachloride, bichromate ot soda, epsom salts,
permanganate of potash and carbon bisulphide.
Pharmaceuticals, fine chemicals and drugs—standardised and
repacked in retail containers at our own plant.
Dyes—Our Pyramid Aniline Colors represent quality, not
cheapness. , , A _
Importers of raw materials for American industries, oils, foodstuffs, etc.
BUSH, BEACH & GENT, Inc.,
80 Maiden Fane, Holbrook Building,
New York, U.S.A. San Francisco.
Gable Address (Both Offices) Beachfred .
lnnniiminnHiiitmuinnuimiunni'mitiiinm"'
BUSH, BEACH a GENT me.
New YorK - Ban Bran C 1 SCO .U.B A .
THE PALACE HOTEL,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OF PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
JOHN T. GLOWREY, Proprietor.
The Merry Widow sheds her weeds in
the Age (2/12/T9) :
Widow has furn. R., suit respectable man, within
waking distance. , Jolimont.
Evidently sound sleepers need not apply.
In memory of son Brice, who fell in
France, Donald Mackinnon, Vic. honorary
Minister for Bands, has given £15,000 to
found a mastership at Geelong Grammar
School. Of the 400 Geelong old boys who
heard the trumpet-call, no less than SO fell.
The newest “Remnants from Randwick,”
published for the benefit of the Digger in
the big hospital, and mostly Digs own
work, is as full of bright things as a
Christmas stocking. What a fine monument
this booklet is to Australian courage and
cheerfulness!
“A.F.P.” : Young Ross, who crashed with
his mate, Douglas, in England at the outset
of their flight, was once a telegraphist in
Head Office, Sydney, but left and joined the
cables. Always boyish-looking and very
genial, the casual acquaintance would not
have put him among the extra-game ones
to take on the long flight to Aussie.
Archbishop Kelly goes to Rome on Febru-
ary 7 to see the Pope. Every R.C. pre-
late does it at least once in 10 years. Dr.
Kelly is no stranger in those parts. He was
rector of the Irish College there (1891-1001),
and it was in Rome that he was consecrated
Archbishop of Acrida and coadjutor (with
right of succession) to Cardinal Moran in
the See of Sydney. He may bring back a
red hat —who knows?
London Daily Mail, in reporting the
divorce of the Hon. Michael Scott (who mar-
ried Cecilia Bruton,' of Sydney, 18 years
ago), quotes the letter he wrote explaining
his defection. “Being away from home sur-
roundings for 4 i years during this awful war
seems to have entirely altered my view of
life,” he wrote. He did his bit during the
awfulness as a staff-captain in Southampton.
It was mostly the husbands in soft home jobs
who went astray: the ones in the trenches
tended to become more devoted.
The tremendously-dutiful Murray, Chief
Justice of S. Aus., who grows in austerity,
cast a stone at his predecessor, the profuse
Way, the other day, and certainly didn’t
mean to do it. “Y’ Honor is paying us a
poor compliment,” said Cleland, K.C. “We
are not here to pay compliments,” said
Murray. Which is perfectly true, of course,
his Honor being there merely to do serious
business ; and that makes his Honor’s recent
outburst as a censor of millinery proper to
be worn in Court all the more incompre-
hensible. That was when, on a blazing hot
day, Blackburn, the V.C., came into court
with a rational light-tweed suit showing
under his gown, and was told by ’s Honor
that ’s Honor couldn’t see him.
“Narrung”: There are ways to beat the
food profiteer. Here’s one. In July I
planted 12s. 6d. worth of sprouting potatoes
in an empty patch of back yard. At in-
tervals since I have rammed home some
shooting scraps cut from spuds bought for
family use. In the last fortnight I have
dug 601 b. weight of the best new potatoes
I have seen for a year, worth, at present
price of sd. per lb., 255. Each root has
averaged l|lb. of spuds, and there are still
nearly 600 plants in all stages of growth to
be dealt with, which should, at a modest
guess, give us over a quarter of a ton.
Estimated profit, £lO. The ground was new,
and I dug it myself. It was not manured or
fertilised. P.S.—I disclose the address to
The Bulletin in strict confidence.
“Friday Island” : Connolly of Yorke Island,
Torres Strait, can direct anybody interested
to a native who has a telescope reputed to
have belonged to La Perouse. The barrel is
made of brass covered with thick canvas,
brown with age. There is no inscription
apparent, but whether the brass barrel itself
is inscribed I cannot say, >as the canvas
has never been removed. The earliest thing
known about the glass is that it was in the
possession of an American sailor named
Mosby, who fetched up at Yorke Island in
the old sailing-ship days and whose descen-
dants are still there. They possess the in-
strument. After La Perouse sailed away
from Australia all trace of him was lost,
and the French Government offered a large
reward for information concerning his fate.
In 1791 an expedition was sent from France
to make search, but the hunt was fruitless.
In 1826 a Captain Dillon obtained a num-
ber of things which had belonged to La
Perouse’s ships from the natives of Malli-
colo, an island in the New Hebrides. In-
vestigators have found that two French
vessels were wrecked off Mallicolo with the
loss of all hands. Did La Perouse ever
land, then, on Yorke Island? Asa telescope
the glass referred to is quite efficient; and,
as a relic, if it did indeed belong to La
Perouse, it should be worth a lot of money.
“P. Juggler” welcomes “Old Brig.” : —•
Back by the Wahehe "from Egypt comes Major-
General Ryrie, much better known to the Diggers
in Egypt as the Old Brig. His best work was
done after the Armistice, when he became
G.0.C., A.I.F. in Egypt, after Chauvel’s departure
for England. He gained more for the Australians
in two months than his predecessor had in four
years, and it was through his unceasing efforts with
the Imperial authorities that the bulk of the Light
Horse left the land of squalor and baksheesh before
the end of July, 1919. His sense of justice was
keen', and I recall an instance of it
when three Australians were court-martialled
at Tel-el-Kebir in May last. Most serious charges
of rape and looting were preferred against these
men by natives, and the case was heard by a military
court sent up from Moascar. The members of this
court were perforce the guests of a regiment whose
conversation at mess invariably bore on the guilt
of the accused, although the matter was sub judice.
Realising- that he had a hostile court to front, and
knowing that he had a good case, the officer appear-
ing as counsel for the Diggers succeeded in getting
the evidence brought out in his cross-examination of
the native witnesses fully recorded in the proceed-
ings, an achievement not too easy to accomplish
with many courts-martial. The Court duly found
the accused guilty and sentenced them to four,
three and two years respectively. The soldier re-
ceiving the last sentence was a boy of 19, who
enlisted when he was 16, and not one of the three
had a mark against him in his previous service,
which dated back to the Evacuation. Upon the
papers going to Ryrie for confirmation, he promptly
quashed the whole thing, and gave the president
of the court a lecture on the rules of evidence that
he won’t forget in a hurry. I know that those
men were innocent, and that Ryrie saved three good
Australian soldiers from becoming criminals.


BUY YOUR XMAS WANTS at MURDOCH’S
Get in early and make your selection at the Mammoth Store, where values are unequalled.
All that you need in the way of Clothing for Holiday wear is here, and festive prices prevail.
Whatever your holiday programme for the Christmas season may be—you’ll find smart, serviceable goods at
Murdoch’s to fit the occasion.
Don’t be a last-minute-shopper—come in to-day and make your choice. If you can’t call, write Desk R.
Murdoch’s Genuine
South American Panamas
Smart City Shapes, neatly woven with
nice pearly bleajch. Cool, comfortable
hats for summer days. Brims 21, 21
and 2§ inches. Sizes G 1 to 71. Best
trimmings and greaseproof leather.
Prices: 21/-, 25/-, 30/-
Murdoch 9 S Australian-made
Soft Feits.
Absolutely the best values in Australia.
Cut or stitched brims, 21 inches wide, in
Slate, Black, Drab, Fawn, Steel and
Brown. Sizes 61 to 71. Ideal hats for
holiday wear. Murdoch’s Prices are-
-7/6 & 15/6.
Special Line in
Straw Boaters.
High-crown Boaters, 31- and 31-inch
crowns, 21- and 21-inch brims, 2- and 11-
inch bands, loose side or elbow bows.
Sizes, 61 to 71,
4/11
Other lines— 6/6
<r
Australian
Tweed
Sac
Suits,
in Grey and Brown
shades—in striped and
check designs. Sacs are
smartly cut with 2-button
fronts, roll lapels, cut-
away fronts, no vent in
back, outside breast
pockets. Trousers have
side and hip pockets,
cuff bottoms. Excellent
value afe
Men’s Two-piece
Washing Suits,
Ready-to-Wear Sacs and Trousers,
made from Mercerised Cotton Rep,
Tussore Shade. Sacs have 2- or 3-
button smart, cut-away fronts, 3 patch
pockets. Trousers have side and hip
pockets, cuff bottoms, belt loops, side
straps. In Two Grades of Cloth,
Two-piece
Assam Silk
Ready-to-wear Suits.
Made from a special heavyweight Silk
that will wash and wear well. Sacs
and Trousers unlined. Sacs have 2-
or 3-button fronts, 3 patch pockets, no
vents. Trousers have side and hip
pockets, cul'f bottoms, side straps, and
belt loops. Splendid value at
>
c
31
Travelling Requisites.
TT AND KITBAGS, Solid Hide, Nickel Fit-
tings—■
Sizes. . 12in. 14in. 16in. 18in. 20in.
21/- 24/6 28/- 32/- 35/-
lIARIMxBAIN FIBRE SUITCASES —Nickel Fittings, Leather Handles.
Eight Capped Corners.
Sizes
20in.
22/6
22in.
25/-
24in.
27/6
26in.
29/6
V,
MURDOCH’S BATHING COSTUMES
FOR MEN.
MEN’S ALL-WOOL NECK-TO-KNEE BATHING
COSTUMES, in plain Black. (Guaranteed Unshrinkable.)
Small Men’s and Men’s. O.S. Men’s.
11/6
ALL-WOOL NECK-TO-KNEE BLACK BATHING
COSTUMES.
Small Men’s and Men’s. O.S. Men’s.
10/11
NECK-TO-KNEE
8/11
9/6
ALL WdOL NECK-TO-KNEE BATHING COS-
TUMES, in Colors of Brown, Navy, Grey, Black or
Purple, with Colored Trimmings.
Small Men’s and Men’s. O.S. and Ex.O.S.
11/6 & 12/6 11/11 & 12/11
TWO-PIECE CANADIANS, in plain Navy Wool and Cotton.
S. Men’s and Men’s. O.S. Men’s.
14/6 15/-
ALL-WOOL, in Plain Black, or Black with Colored Trimmings-
CANADIANS.
S. Men’s and Men’s. O.S. and Ex.O.S.
16/11 17/6
GENT.’S SURF CAPS—Black Waterproof
...... 2/11 & 3/6
2/6
Oiled Silk
'-r\
WHAT
ABOUT
SHIRTS?
ZEPHYR GOLF SHIRTS, in all neat
designs, Blue or Black stripes,
on white ground
STRIPED FUGI SILK GOLF
SHIRTS, with Collar to match,
TUSSORE SILK TENNIS
SHIRTS, SPECIAL VALUE,
6/6
27/6
13/6
&
Special
Line
in
Summer
Weight
Pyjamas.
Neat designs, roomy
in cut and well
finished throughout.
WE PAY POSTAGE
ON ALL GOODS
TO ANY ADDRESS
IN AUSTRALIA.
El
IN PARK ST LIMITED SYDNEY
GpmnJete Outfitters
for Men Bobs


[Suffered Two Years
With Pimples On Face
NeckandChin, Disfigured.
Cuticura Healed.
“My face, neck and chin broke out
in blotches of pimples, which soon
came to a head and festered.
They soon began to get very
itchy causing me to scratch
them making them worse
and afterwards disfiguring
my face for a long time.
“I had been suffering for
about two years until I read
an advertisement for a free sample of
Cuticura which I tried. I then bought
some more and before many weeks of
treatment with Cuticura Soap and Oint-
ment my skin was quite clear of all the
pimples.” (Signed) A. H. Doyle,
Diamond Hill, Bendigo, Vic.
Cuticura Soap and Ointment tend to
prevent pimples, rashes, etc., if used
for every-day toilet purposes.
Soaptocleanseand Ointment to heal.
“R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
Sold by dealers throughout the world.
cfc v
HURRAH!
m
WE BUILT
THAT MODEL WITH MECCANO
LOOK—IT WORKS
This splendid model of a rotating crane,
in shining steel, is only one of a hundred
working models —cranes, bridges, motors,
looms, guns, ' search-lights, aeroplanes—
which any boy can build with
MECCANO
Sold by all the beet Toy Dealers.
Every Meccano outfit is complete with big
illustrated book of instructions and all
the parts and tools needed —it’s so easy,
yet so fascinating. Meccano is made in
England.
Prices from 8/- per Outfit
upwards.
Send your name and address
With stamp for postage for a
•opy of the “Meccano Maga-
zine”—it is free!
To-
The Meccano Depot (No. 1),
Box 1832 G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
GIVE
YOUR
BOY
MECCANO
df
sdf
PARIS
GARTERS
No metal
can touch you
The Kneeling Figure and
Oval Trade Mark is al-
ways on the genuine Paris
Garter. This will protect
you against unsatisfac-
tory substitutes.
Obtainable all Mercers.
Stein & Co., Makers, Chicago, New Yoik.
Indents and Wholesale :
Walter Cathro Pty. Ltd., 50 York St., Sydney.
H. G. HARMER, L.R.1.8.A., C.E,
ESTABLISHED 1907,
having taken into partnership
A. C. LAVINGTON,
will henceforth practise as
HARMER & LAVINGTON,
ARCHITECTS
and
HUU
CONSULTING CIVIL ENGINEERS.
SPECIALISTS IN RE-INFORCED CONCRETE,
TIMBER AND STEEL STRUCTURES.
SILOS. WOOLSIIEDS, TANKS, FACTORIES
AND HOMESTEADS.
Country work a Specialty.
’Phone: City 50. Box 468 G.P.O.
62 WAR LOAN CHAMBERS
114 a PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
Fairbanks-Morse
“Y” Oil Engines
-
■i
Reliable
Power at
Low Cost
THE “Y” Oil Engine produces power at a
minimum cost because it operates efficiently
on low-priced oils —fuel oil, crude oil, stove
oil, “Solar” oil, gas oil or kerosene—and because
it consumes less fuel per horse power than
other engines.
The “Y* Oil Engine is simple in construction
and practically automatic in operation and regu-
lation—no carburetors, batteries, mixers, valves,
timers,igniters,magnetos,switches or sparkplugs.
Special quick—starting device; air seat prevents
oil from being blown out of bearings; positive
lubrication, sensitive governor. No hot bulb—no
water injection.
Sizes from 10 to 200 H. P. Every “Y” Oil En-
gine is guaranteed by Fairbanks-Morse Quality —
an assurance of reliability, economy and efficiency.
DANGAR, GEDVE & COMPANY, ETD., Sydney.
JAMES WARDIE & COMPANY, Adelaide.
JANIES BART RAM & SONS, LTD., Melbourne.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD., Brisbane.
MALLOCII BROTHERS, Perth.
DONALD & SONS, LTD., Masterton, N.Z.
A. G. WEBSTER & SONS, LTD., Hobart, Tasmania.
Fairbanks,
3 INCORPORATED
MANUFACTURERS
Foreign Dept.
New York, U. S. A.
London, England
Buenos Aires, Argentina
CfiEO
Ik
-YALE-
A GREAT feature of the
Yale Spur-geared Chain
Block is Safety assuring
confidence in the user’s mind.
The Vital Parts—supporting
the load—are special, select-
ed steel and their design is
mechanically correct.
Combined with these is the careful
workmanship controlled by rigid
inspections. And the final test is a
load 50% in excess of the block’s
rated capacity.
Because of its safety, the Yale spur-
geared Chain Block is used in every
important construction project in
the world.
‘From-hook-to-hook-a-Line-of-Steel’
Made by the makers of the famous
YALE Padlocks, Night Latches,
Builders’ Hardware, Door Closers
and Bank Locks.
Look for the trade-mark
Yale on the product >
The Yale &Towne Mfg. Co.
Established 1868
New York
U. S. A.
sd
(IyaleY TRIPLEX BLOCKS
Special features:—
I—Hoists1 —Hoists twice as fast as a screw-geared block.
2 Continuous Hand Chain Guide, permitting rapid lowering.
3 Rated on long ton(224olb.)and tested to 50% overload(336olb.).
4 can be fitted to any length of lift.
5 Spare parts available.
6 Hand and Electric Blocks available from stock.
FRANK R. PERROT, Sole Australian Agent,
334 Kent Street, Sydney; 883 Hay Street, Perth.
L. BANNISTER, 39 Queen Street, Melbourne.
EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., 121 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
THE EUROPEAN SITUATION.
[For The Bulletin.]
The Yule log blazes fitfully and blue
Where Europe at the bowl of peace is sipping.
Old customs change. The world is ever new.
The table groans with festive bread-and-dripping.
N.S.W. P. O’M.
London’s old Drury, which was run at a
loss during the war, has just declared a divi-
dend of 15 per cent, for the year ending
June 30, and then had nearly £10,000 over.
The freehold of the old house is in the
market —subject to a 60 years’ lease.
“Simple Simon” : Lieut.-Col. Henley lately
used the expression “vicious circle,” and
as a good many papers are overworking it
just now, I want to know what it means.
Does it refer to the face of the water-meter,
or the meat ring, or the shipping ring, or
the wedding ring? Ur is it the dress circle?
To have a whole Act of Parliament to
oneself is the privilege of one Foley, the
keeper of a small pub at Mysia, in the Wed-
derburn sector of Vic. He ignorantly or
absentmindedly contented himself with a
Court certificate authorising the renewal of
his license instead of getting the renewal,
and of course the local member had to get
on the job to have things put right.
A new London Shyloek—at the Court-
lias the advantage of being a Jew. His
name is Muscovitch, and he alternates the
dignity of Irving with the comedy of Asche.
He introduces two queer innovations. On
receiving the welcome news of the loss of
Antonio's ships he does a wild dance with
Tubal, and his last appearance is on Tubal’s
shoulders as he is carried out of court.
“Narrung”: The Shipping Space Allot-
ment Committee had at last consented to
my appropriation of a few cubic feet of
deck-room for a cargo bound for Cooktown,
and I hurled myself into a well-known inter-
state co.’s offices. There I interviewed a
lady clerk who still survives in the job of a
man who went to France. She assured me
she could attend to my needs, and I asked
for a ship to Cairns,. Cooktown and the
Gulf Country. “Sorrai,” she said, “but
we have a boat for Adelaide next week. ’
“Frank Jay”: Funk and Wagnalls, who
are responsible for the Literary Digest,
with a circulation of over a million, recently
found they were up against it when the
printers walked out. New York’s myriad
magazines immediately found publication in
Chicago and other cities. But Funk and
Wagnall said. “What’s the matter with the
stenographer”? For three weeks or more
the Digest was produced by the typewriter
and photo-engraver; all except the ads.,
which were mostly set up before the trouble.
As chairman of the National Bank the
knightly Grice of Melbourne deprecates the
idea of his staff going to the Arbitration
Court, but as chairman of the Met. Gas Co.
he commends the course as right and proper.
As Acting-Chancellor of the Uni. he has
not spoken on the subject yet, but prob-
ably he disagrees with himself in his other
two capacities. And as a philanthropist he
is certain to have grave doubts about the
various persons who wear the same suit of
clothes and preside at bank, gas and Univer-
sity meetings and go to the Melbourne. Club
for lunch and are all called John Grice.
“Acrabali”: Probably the finest comedy
entry ever made into that holy of holies,
the vault in the Church of the Nativity,
Bethlehem, was accomplished by a Light
Horseman. The descent of about a dozen
smooth, shining stone steps, when one is
shod in iron-heeled issue boots, is a work of
art in itself. The Australian jangled spurs
down the first two or three in safety; then
liis feet flew from under him, and he
finished up after a series of jolts on the end
of his spine. The litany of rage he recited
while prone on the stone floor was worthy of
being cut on every bullock-waggon in Aus-
tralia.
“Gum Leaf”: James Griffiths’s recent suc-
cessful growing of the tea plant in Victoria,
as reported by “F.T.N.” (B. 20/11/T9),
recalls that in 1866 Drs. Mueller and Wil-
liams, both of Melbourne and keen bota-
nists, held directly opposite opinions on the
possibilities of “making a do” of the industry
locally. Mueller, who said “Yes,” intro-
duced seeds from Hong Kong and proved his
contention to be right by successfully raising
a number of plants in the Botanical Gar-
dens. It is recorded that he proposed to go
a step further and form a tea plantation at
Mt. Macedon, but there is no trustworthy
evidence as to whether he actually embarked
on the undertaking.
“Yeronga”: Will “Country Ped” or some
other teacher explain why the mention of
Australian geography to an Australian kid
has about the same effect as the mention
of Mannix on Hughes? I am concerned
with an annual scholarship examination
open to pupils of all Bananaland schools
from State schools up, in which the geo-
graphy is made purely Australian, and
almost to a candidate their knowledge of
the land we live in is practically nil. The
entrants tell me they would rather the geo-
graphy be any other than Australian, as
they don’t get much of that at school. One
bright Aussie at the gxam. this month stated
that Kosciusko was a snow-covered moun-
tain in the Northern Territory !
“Widgee”: In these days of sugar-short-
age, particularly in the country districts, per-
haps some abo. housewife would like _ to
make her own sweetstuff. Here is a recipe
for treating sugar-beet in the home: Wash
the beet, peel thinly, wash again, dry with a
clean cloth, cut up small and weigh lut a
pint of water to a pound of beet. Boil slowly
three hours, skim_, clarify by adding teacup-
ful cold water for each lib. beet. Boil very
slowly five hours more, strain while hot
through hair sieve. The syrup keeps for
three days and can be used for sweetening
puddings or stewed fruit. To refine it and
make it keep, add a good dessertspoonful
glucose and a saltspoonful cream of tartar
to each pint of syrup extracted, boiling
quickly in an earthenware vessel or a double
saucepan with a china interior. Strain and
bottle. Now it is like “bullocky’si joy. - To
make sugar, boil the “joy” for 40 minutes
or until it sets like toffee when a little is
dropped into cold water. For jam-making
lib. of hard sugar or the syrup goes to lib.
fruit, boiling the fruit until soft before add-
ing the sweetening. Much Australian sugar-
beet produces as high as 161b. sugar to the
cwt. of vegetable, which means 4s. Sd. worth
of sugar to the housewife who produces her
own.


■
„ I **
-■< V *■»*,• ':
.. t , * "
. ; :
; 1
.V* r
\<> ‘ .
mSmS^m
• V=- .V ■ CSSSS
BBpPpftr■:•.
v' V -V j
:
• * ' -\ ;
< f AHm
fldri'’
*liiiSl -
S? 5 - ' S V<>\:
.
U \ ;• „ -\ *pf
M . >?* * r$
mKBSmm
Mtex ■ < . .*■
SS\'
mm
m
Ti\
IP
■
..
ii
: ■.
•' ■;.
' ‘ *? ■
\ g '"’V
'm
MM»I
■
WBk
■
•*' ■ ; f • ■h ,
V.'
I
1
■
.
I
\ 1 •i&i
mmmtmwMmmmM mi
m
SR
HI
s
;.. I ■■
V
ill
:•' ll
Wirt
W
I
:■
‘ ■ 1
%
sr*>- * ■ ■ bl
1
m
mm
m
' ’ m*
WmF* m
'
■
m
U
|mm
WSM
■ :; ;<•
Ia I a
■
■I i
BaMM
r
. ■■- As
B
llwt
■
BMi
m
IS
• •
■♦:
■
■
■:'
n
i- • ••••>- : - :•
h : Wmm.
H Wsm
r :
-v'
: . ; m
H—
%
■■■':■'
111
.
S;
Hi
:■
■1
;• ‘
na
- :■:: &■■ ■
u
: ::
:’• .-: v
m
m
The TJalue of Interpretation
With one’s mind attuned to the
spirit of the night, the longing
for a physical means of expres-
sion becomes acute. The Beale
Player-Piano affords this means
—an universal language—that fits
in with every mood. With this
sympathetic instrument you are
able to concentrate on interpre-
tation unhampered by the fatigue
of indifferent technique. The
Beale supplies a perfect technique
in a perfect piano.
Write for ‘•Descriptive Literature
BEALE
AND COMPANY LIMITED
Showrooms: 333 George Street,
Sydney
Factory: 41-47 Trafalgar Streep
Annandale
BRANCHES—N.S.W.: Bathurst, Orange, Lismore, Newcastle, Goul-
bum, Wagga. Victoria: Maples, in all Melbourne Suburbs. Tasmania :
Williams Bros., Hobart; Maples, Launceston. South Australia: John
Evans Ltd., Adelaide. Queensland: 90-92 Queen Street, Brisbane;
Kent Street, Maryborough; Flinders Street, Townsville;
Rockhampton; Sydney St., Mackay; Cairns.
The better musician you are the
more you wilt appreciate the Teale


A. Saunders’ soiid Silver Gent.’s Hair Brush,
plain design, embossed edge, finest-quality
Bristles, 25/-
A. Saunders’
Shaving Brush,
solid Silver,
finest-quality
Bristles, 15/6.
A. Saunders’ Handkerchief Box, pure Silver-plated, A 1
• Utility, hand burnished, silk lined, £5/10/-
A. Saunders’ Swan Fountain-pen, 9ct. Gold Bands.
Plain, 21/-, 23/6.
Chased, 22/6, 25/-
g VkJffo
nMiiiiiiiuiimiHt
S 3
I 111
A. Saunders’ solid Silver Brush and Comb, highly burnished
and engraved, finest-quality Bristles, in Silk-lined Case,
50/-
A. Saunders* Lady’s Work Basket, fitted with every
convenience, £3/5/- Others, £2.
m
.
mm i
m m
A. Saunders’ Nine-piece Manicure Set, solid Silver, highly
burnished, finest quality Instruments, £5/10/-
A. SAUNDERS,
JEWELLER,
805-815 George Street, Sydney
(Opposite Railway Station),
A. Saunders’
Amber Cigar-
ette Holder,
Go3d-mounted,
in plain solid
Silver. Case,
12/6.
A. Saunders’ solid Silver Tobacco Box, plain
design, gilt lined, self-acting spring lid,
25/-, 30/-, 40/-
A. Saunders’ solid Silver Photo Frame,
highly burnished, plain design.
Cabinet size, 40/-
Imperial size, 70/-
A. Saunders’ Pocket Fruit Knife, solid Silver Blade, carved
Pearl Handle, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 12/6.
A. Saunders’ Pocket Wallet, real Morocco Leather,
sterling Silver Mounts and Shields, 20/-
others, 25/-, 30/-, 35/-, 40/-
1
V;
At Work or At Play
Indoors or out of doors —-
Milkmaid Coffee & Milk
is the ideal beverage at
all times.
With a tin of Milkmaid
Coffee & Milk and
hot water only you can
enjoy perfect, creamy
coffee at any moment.
For your next picnic take
Milkmaid Coffee& Milk.
Drink it, too, at break-
fast, lunch or supper.
You will be delighted.
Remember ! no sugar—no milk re-
quired with Milkmaid Coffee & Milk.
Just hot water. It’s so simple !
MILKMAID
Coffee & Milk
a fan**,
99
3F
55
T 2
-4sr
- 3s *
'/
r/iw;
wMm 4\
/t
A 26


A iiiiisciueiiiß.
Harry Kickards Tivoli Theatres .Ltd.
Governing Director HUGH D. McINTOSH.
1" IVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVENINGS AT 8.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday at 2.30.
THE TIVOLI FAMOUS FLAYERS
. in
AS YOU WERE.
A Novel and Fantastic Revue.
Plans at Nicholson's and the Tivoli.
1“ IVOLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH D. McINTOSII presents
LONDON’S SPARKLING MUSICAL COMEDY,
PETTICOAT FAIR.
Prices as usual.
IS I T I? IS I O N T II i: A T IS n. Si lINICr
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday at 2.
LIGHTNIN’.
A Comedy Drama by Winchell Smith and Frank
Bacon, iutvodi cii g the famous American cliaracter-
aetor JOHN D. O’HARA and a specially-selected
cast of players.
Plan at Paling’s.
f_f K It M A .1 E S T V ’ S. s V l> N .« v.
■ 1 Direction J. C. WII.LIAMSON LTD.
SATURDAY NEXT, DECEMBER 20, at 7.45.
THE REVUSICAL COMEDY DE LUXE.
THE BING BOYS ON BROADWAY.
Plans at Paling’s. Prices as usual.
1* II EATIt IC ROYAL, SYDNEY.
COMMENCING SATURDAY, DECEMBER 20,
and nightly at 8.
Matinees Saturday and Holidays, at 2.
CHARLES STANFORD presents the Famous and
Fascinating- Drama in 4 Acts, bv A. Stanley-Ford,
THE PRIEST AND THE GIRL,
A Drama that will hold you enthralled.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-, plus tax.
Plan at Paling’s.
A L A C E T II E A T It E. S Y I) X K Y.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
EVENINGS AT 8. *
Matindes Wednesday and Saturday at 2.
SARA ALLGOOD in
PEG O’ MY HEART.
The Play that will live for ever.
Plan at Nicholson’s.
yNI o N I* IcTU It E TIIEAT It E H
THE PICK OF THE WORLD'S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE. LYCEUM.
STRAND, GLOBE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
MAJESTIC, GRAND, KING’S CROSS.
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
|_|ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE. .MELBOURNE
1 ■ Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, DECEMBER 20.
J. C. WILLIAMSON. LTD., present their Gorgeous
Pantomime Extravaganza,
THE SLEEPING BEAUTY.
Plan at Allan’s. Popular Prices.
T II E A T R E R O Y A L. MELBOURNE.
1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.50.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the Attractive
Musical Play,
THEODORE AND CO.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
KING’S THEATRE. MELBO V R N E.
Lessees: BAILEY & GRANT.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, DECEMBER 20.
J. and N. TAIT and BAILEY and GRANT
present their Grand Spectacular Pantomime,
MOTHER HUBBARD.
Prices as usual. Plan at Allan’s.
HOYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
'THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
DOROTHY DALTON in
EXTRAVAGANCE.
MADLAINE TRAVERSE in
GAMBLING IN SOULS.
Prices as usual.
jyjA.JESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
ALICE BRADY in
WOMAN AND WIFE.
Matinees daily at 2.30. . Nights at 8.
LACIA R I U M. MELBOURNE.
JAZZ PALAIS
DANCING.
EVERY EVENING,
8.15 to 10.45.
BUILDING ARTIFICIALLY COOLED.
MISS HUTCHISON’S JAZZ BAND.
Admission 1/-
Single Dances -/6
Book of 14 Dance Tickets 3/6
“|“HE ALLAN WILKIE COMPANY,
Including Miss FREDISWYDE HUNTER-WATTS,
Touring New Zealand in
HINDLE WAKES, CANDIDA, THE SCHOOL FOR
SCANDAL, SHE STOOPS TO OONOUER. THU BY.
CAMILLE, THE SILVER KING, THE MIDNIGHT
WEDDING.
OPENING IN DUNEDIN ON DECEMBER 26.
11271
Diggers S
Are you trained for a decent
civvy Job? Under the Govern-
ment Vocational Training
scheme you are entitled to
FREE training—
THE CENTRAL CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE
can give you practical instruction by correspondence in any of
the following subjects: Accountancy, Advertising, Book-keeping,
Salesmanship, all business subjects; in fact ANY subject you want!
Write now for particulars and send this advertisement.
The Central Correspondence College
165 Collins Street, Melbourne.
THE GOOD OLD “PLUM”
The good old "Plum” Razor has been before the
Australian Public for years, and its keenly-tempered
edge has preserved the friendship of every Shaver
who has made its acquaintance.
THE “PLUM” RAZOR.
PRICE. 10/6—POST FREE.
IVe keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
The above makes a handsome present.
“Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/2 Tube, post free.
All the above Post Free. Send for our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN
654 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over SI) years.
Tried and Trusted
The “PLUM”
Razor.
MEN WHO SHAVE.
We would like to speak to you about shaving. If the
hand trembles or is impulsive, it is a pain to shave with
the old form of razor. It is a pleasure to shave with our
Safety Razors —so easy. You may walk about and shave
at the same time, bio cutting the skin.
It matters not if your hand shakes. Quick, too.
One shaves in half the time. Then, too, the expense
is far —very far —less than when using the old form o.
razor.
Try one—you will then discard the old razor.
We stock all the most approved makes of Safety
Razors. Some as low at 5/- in case.
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS LTD.,
Plain Figures. Cash onlv.
Autostrop Safety ltazor, in Nickel Case,
22/6.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
Am usements.
|y| ELISA THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Showing the pick of the world’s * films, includim:
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPII, PAT lIK
WOULD and SELZNICK.
gItITAXMA TIIEATKE, M ELISOU ItX E
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
Missing Friends.
ALLAN ARMSTRONG—DECEASED.
PERSONS claiming to be the next-of-kin
of the abovenamed deceased, who died
at Longreach on the sixteenth day of Sep-
tember, 1919, are requested to communicate
with the undersigned.
J. R. GAIR, Local Deputy Public Curator,
Rockhampton, Queen si and.
TTENRY HAMLF.Y BROADSTOCK—son of Joseph
Broadstock, Lite of Salisbury, South Australia.
Deceased being entitled to a share under his father’s
Will is requested to send his address immediately to
the undersigned—if dead, information with respect
thereto will oblige. MOULDEN and SONS, Eaglt
Chambers, Adelaide.
MR. R. A. MlLES—and the whole damn
family—send Christmas Greetings and
Rest Wishes for Happy New Year to all our
I’als of the Great War —and their friends.
“Happy Days,’’ Gt. Queen St., London, W.C.
ms; -i-gagg
10/6
Genuine BENGALI. Razors.
Unsurpassed for Cutting Edge.
Made by T. It. Cadman & Sons, Sheffield, Eng.
These razors have a reputation of 170 years’
standing for excellent quality. They are unsur-
passed for durability and keen-cutting edge. Very
best steel, hand-forged, hardened and tempered by
special process. Hollow-ground to highest degree
of perfection. Specially Selected.
Full concave, file tang, gin. blade. For light
beard.
Full concave, file tang, fin. blade.
Price, Post Free 10/6 each.
Or Two Razors, Post Free, for 20/-
MANUFACTURERS’ SELLING AGENCY,
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Business Notices.
'T' HE “GIPPSLAND SPINNER,” designed, proved
-*■ and made in Australia, beats all the imported
lures. Irresistible for perch, trout, etc.
Makes angling a serene and lasting joy. Semi
2/-, P.N. or stamps, to “SPINNER,” 561 Dowling
Street, Moore Park, Sydney, N.S.W.
THE
G3ISND
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE g HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL £500,000.
Fire Insurances
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni
ture. &c. Rents also assured
Marine Risks
on Wool, Merchandise.
Hulls of Vessels. Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insura ces
cf various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
BAHTIN lIAIGH, General Manager.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Although over £750,000 was paid dur-
ing 1918 in War Claims alone, the
Cash Hoi.us Distributed for 1918
exceeded.. .. .. .. .. £1,000,000
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. ... £1,700,000
Accumulated Funds exceed .. .. £39,000,000
Annual Income over .. .. .. £5,500,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPKRLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
She Standard Remedy which has outlived the Canto ,!-»*.
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and .Navy men.
Used since 1596. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLINC EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT,
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road. London, England
Insist oa “ Singleton’s’’—refuse all substitutes.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Public Notice.
NOTICE.
Return of Insurance Premiums
Required from Insurance Companies.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act 1909 and the
Fire Brigades Amendment Act 1910.
A LL insurance companies, as defined by the above
Acts, are hereby notified that they are required
to send to the Board of Fire Commissioners of New
.South Wales returns showing the total amount of
the premiums received by or due to such companies
in respect of risks against fire during the year ending
31st December, 1919, within the Sydney Fire District
and every other Fire District in the State of New
South Wales to which the Fire Brigades Act 1909
and the Fire Brigades Amendment Act 1910 apply,
less any part of such premiums actually paid by way
of re insurance to any other insurance companies
contributing under the said Acts.
The time appointed for receipt of the returns is on
or before the 31st January, 1920, subject to a penalty
not exceeding five pounds for every day of default.
Forms upon which to make the required returns
may be obtained from the undersigned.
By order of the Board of Fire Commissioners of
New South Wales.
11. M. WEBB, Secretary.
213 Castlereagh Street, Sydney,
29th November, 1919.
NOTICE.
Returns of Insurance Premiums Re-
quired from Persons, etc., Insuring
with any Insurance Company not
Registered in New South Wales.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act 1909 and the
Fire Brigades Amendment Act 1910.
A LL persons, firms, companies and associations being
owners, trustees or agents for any goods or
property within the Sydney Fire District, and every
other Fire District in the State of New South Wales
to which the Fire Brigades Act 1909 and the Fire
Brigades Amendment Act 1910 have been applied, in
respect of which premiums are paid to an insurance
company not registered in the State, are hereby
notified that they are required to send to the Board
of Fire Commissioners of New South Wales returns
showing the amount of such premiums paid by them
in respect of the said property to such insurance
co i panies during the year 1919.
The time appointed for receipt of the returns is
on or before the 31st January, 1920, subject to a
penalty not exceeding £1 per day for every day of
default.
Note. —Returns are required only of the proportion
of the premiums properly chargeable in respect of
the Fire Risk during the time such property was in
any Fire District under the said Acts.
By order of the Board of Fiie Commissioners of
New South Wales.
11. M. WEBB, Secretary.
213 Castlereagh Street. Svdney,
29th November, 1919.
The Tongkah Harbour Tin Dredging
Company
NO LIABILITY.
ATOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that a GENERAL
MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS in the above-
named Company will be held at the Masonic Hall,
Murray Street, Hobart, on THURSDAY, 18th
DECEMBER, 1919, rrt 3 p.m., for the purposes
fcllowing, namely
1. To receive the Directors’ Thirteenth Annual
Report and Balance-sheet, which will be pre-
sented for adoption.
2. To elect two Directors, Messrs. H. G. Gray and
M. Kennedy retire, but are eligible and offer
themselves for re-election.
3. To appoint Auditors.
4. To transact any other ordinary business of the
Company.
By order of the Directors,
H. J. WISE,
I'chart, 4th December, 1919. Manager.
Patent Process Manufacturing
Fertiliser from Peat.
rpHE Patentees (de Whalley and de
Jl Whalley) of this invention, which is
covered by Commonwealth Patent No. 2030
of 9th September, 1916, are desirous of
bringing it into commercial use in Australia,
and invite correspondence on the subject
from persons or firms interested in the Manu-
facture of Fertilisers.
The invention relates to the treatment of
Peat with a limited quantity of Ammonia
and the addition of Lime thereto to produce
a fertiliser.
Working particulars of the invention are
available at my office, and I am instructed
to open up negotiations with persons or
firms interested in the subject. Inquiries to
be addressed to WILFRED J. SPRUSON,
of Daily Telegraph Building, King Street,
Sydney.
Patent Rotary Internal Combustion
Engine.
tgIHE Patentees (Bricknell, Bricknell and
_L Bricknell) of Commonwealth Patent
No. 11551 of 10th December, 1913, desire to
bring this patent to the attention of En-
gineering Trades, Power Users and Manu-
facturers generally, with a view to its
adoption in Australia, and invite correspond-
ence on the subject from persons interested.
The invention consists of an engine having
meshed gear wheels working in a close com-
bustion chamber casing of novel form, the
fluid pressure acting against the wheel teeth.
Favorable arrangements will be offered to
facilitate Australian manufacture of this
apparatus, and all necessary working direc-
tions, with specification and drawings, will
be supplied on reference to WILFRED J.
SPRUSON, of Daily Telegraph Building,
King Street, Sydney.
Situation Vacant.
! FREMANTLE FREEZING WORKS.
The West Australian Meat Exports Company Limited.
POSITION OF GENERAL MANAGER for Fremantle
Freezing Works, now in course of erection,
j A PPLTCATIONS will be received up to February
28, 1920, addressed to the Chairman of the
above Company, 18 Howard Street, Perth, W.A., for
the position of General Manager, at a salary of
£1250 per annum. Only those possessing a thorough
commercial and practical knowledge of the duties,
and able to produce evidence accordingly, will be
considered. Applications will be treated as Private
and Confidential and must be marked “Position for
General Manager.” Successful applicant will be
required to commence duty not later than June 1,
1920. Particulars of the works may be obtained at
any of the offices of the Pastor At, Review through-
out Australia, New Zealand, Canada, South America,
Chicago, Africa and Great Britain.
JNO. HY. NOBLE, Secretary.
18 Howard Street, Perth.


THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE
(STATE GUARANTEE) ACTS AS
EXECUTOR, TRUSTEE, ADMINISTRATOR, ATTORNEY and AGENT.
Expert, Efficient and Economical Management.
Write or call for full particulars, CULWULLA CHAMBERS, 67 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
T W. GARRETT, Public Trustee.
w
3 O ORDAS ON
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
%
DTi
Swift & Company Lttl., Au»tralasian Agents. 26 30 Clarence St., Sydney
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
NOTICE TO AGENTS.
“The Bulletin” regrets that no
further orders for supplies of
the special Christmas number
can be filled, the issue being
exhausted.
- ■
am - .
.X ' V.-
CARRIAGE
PAID.
The GUINEA HAT
of taste and quality.
Easily the Smartest Guinea Hat in
the Country, and the Best in Quality.
Fur Felt Hat, in Drab, Slate, Fawn,
flat-set leaf, neat turned edge, lj-inch
Black Band, loose Bow, 2i-inch Leaf,
and fashionable medium Crown.
211-
FAST ELBOWING ITS WAY INTO FAVOR.
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's .... “The Bing Bovs on Broadway”
Criterion “i.ightnin’ ”
Royal “The Priest and the Girl”
T«^, C r B “ Pe ? °‘ M y Heart”
•V' 01 ; 1 “As You Were”
Uovt s Moving Pictures
Union Iheatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
M AJE? ' rv ' s “The Sleeping Beauty”
“Theodore and Co.”
“Mother Hubbard”
ri ‘ V ‘ ' ' i V “Petticoat Fair”
5"” D r E T - txß * Moving Pictures
Pr im Moving Pictures
Gi.aciaiuum Dancing
O-
. r “Petticoat Fair,” released by Mclntosh at
Melbourne livoli last Saturday, turns out to
be musical comedy of the strictly orthodox
persuasion, loaded with War-time allusions
to women-workers. Gwen Burroughs con-
ducts a farm for young women, where the
only licensed man is Billy Rego, a diminutive
antique with hayseeds in his decaying whis-
kers, and the hired angel-of-all-work is
Minnie Love, whose secret baby is out to
nurse in the village. Minnie’s husband is the
time-honored sailor, and when he happens
back from sea with an admiral and his
nephew in tow the baby becomes a cause for
embarrassment on old, familiar lines. Com-
plications are straightened out and the
Amazonian pretences of Lady Burroughs are
silenced by the artless device of putting baby
in her bed, after which the local constable
abandons his pursuit of suspicious circum-
stance, and the labors of the chorus termi-
nate. The chorus, owing to the nature of the
story? is wholly feminine. Sixteen girls wear
many changes of glad raiment, and join in the
refrains of many songs. It is in the singing
and shaping of the hard-worked 1G that the
show will be vastly improved by age; also
Rego will get more laughs out of his scare-
crow appearance when the unwonted task
of speaking lines has grown familiar to him.
* * * *
Rego principal grotesque comedian in
this job, Kennedy Allen being comparatively
reasonable as the father of the rag baby,
whilst George Gee is a humorous young
policeman who drops in occasionally for a
song and dance. Steff Macdonald and Ilar-
dinge have little to do except talk tender
passion and take themselves seriously as
naval officers. Clarice Ilardwicke, to whom
Macdonald chants his love, spreads her little
voice over a number of songs, and cuts a
particularly neat figure in a dress suit, but
the vivacity of Clarice, like the fooling of
Rego and the texture of the story, seems
thinner than it might be. The dominating
personality in “Petticoat Fair” is Minnie
Love, who remains identified with the central
character of Susan except when she diverges
into a pink and green Apple Blossoms finale
to the first act, or sings about the Silent
Navy and the Mothers of England in con-
junction with the chorus. The last-named'
is a specially good item, and in her duet and
pantomime business with George Gee the
humor of, their arm-in-arm proceedings is
refreshingly quaint and unaffected.
❖ *
“As You Were,” which has just got away
to a flying start at Sydney Tivoli, looks like
a stayer. The dialogue twinkles nearly
“Petticoat Fair," at
Melbourne Tivoli.
Stef Maicdonald as
the Admiral’s
nephew.
all the time, the
L' uities are artisti-
cally undressed, and
there is one waltz
of good “haunting”
quality that ripples
at intervals all the
evening. It drugs
the senses like the
sad, sweet, “Rack-
et y Coo” that
helped to advertise
“Katinka.” The
producer has
treated the libretto
reverently. The
trifle was built for
the distraction o f
London during the
weariest part of the
war, and is still left
with occasional re-
ferences to a cam-
paign that threat-
ened to go on for
ever. When lead-
ing comedian Bert
Clark, as Sir Bilyon
Boost, swa 1 lows the
magic pills made
by the old professor
and goes backward
through history,
period by period, he
at last meets Helen
of Troy and thinks a reference to the Trojan
War applies to the slaughter of yesterday.
London laughed at these quips, but they
come too late for Australia. And Clark’s
regretful “Dear me, why wasn’t I educated
instead of being sent to Oxford !” misses an
Australian audience. But his dry humor
and quiet style get most of the points home.
The central idea allows a great range of
costume. As Sir Bilyon shoots himself
backward through time to escape from his
flirtatious wife and false womenkind gener-
ally, he meets the same girl in a different
dress and falls under her spell until she
starts to woo him with the same refrain
that started him from his London home
about 1917. Vera Pearce is the handsome
recurrent wife, and her most impressive ap-
pearance is as Queen Elizabeth in a red
wig, wide ruff, and the inflated skirts that
have left the following centuries wondering
whether Bess was bandy. Hugh Steyne,
who doesn’t seem to care how grotesque he
looks, bobs up in every age as the flying
husband’s curly rival. Marie La Varre
challenges comparison with the specially-
engaged beauties, besides getting through
her numerous songandance jobs like a
tradesman. One of the pleasant surprises
of the show is the duet “Two Little Pits
of Greece” by Mione Stewart and Trilby
Clark. Both girls have distinction, and
their work is fresh. Amongst the fanciful
costumes of the Morality Ballet, Anger
with red hair on end is the most striking.
Producer Claude Flemming, as Walter
Raleigh just back from America, and calling
Elizabeth "kid,” will cheer the history-
crammed youngsters who are taken to the
Tivoli during the holidays. The specially-
selected beauties (salary £lO per week) are
paraded early in the evening and show off
their points. It smacks of the Agricultural
Show—and there is plenty of bare back for
the smacking. Harry Whaite’s happiest
effort is the Grecian scene with a very blue
sea in the distance. The dazzling finale,
with paper streamers flying from stage and
auditorium, and colored lights flashing on
streamers, and golden confetti, makes a
joyous ending.
“Theodore and Co.” continue to deliver
“Petticoat Fair," at
Melbourne Tivoli.
Kennedy Allen as
Tom Breeze.
weird guests at the
domicile of the
24th Duke of Shet-
land at Melbourne
Royal, where the
behavior of Maude
Fane in the ducal
presence is
moulded as before
o n instructions
received from
Leonard, of the
“Crimson Comics.”
Also Leslie Hol-
land, confronted by
the six daughters
of Bantock, who all
appear to have
been born on about
the same day, with
the sfime St. Vitus’s
dance, is adding
emphasis to'his an-
nouncement that
Every Little Girl
can teach him
Something Ne w.
One of the spare
rooms for improve-
ment in the original
cast of “Theodore
and Co.” has been
filled by the substi-
tution of Arthur
Stigant for Welch
as the preposterous liveried servant at
Shetland House. The palsied head and
optimistic giggle of Stigant are more befit-
ting to the apparition than the saturnine
pessimism of George Welch. If changes
were made in other directions the effect
might be equally successful. For example,
the present impersonator’s conception of
the part of Cosmos Legallos, a professional
lady-killer, is a mere matter-of-fact edition
of Reginald Roberts.
The coming panto, at Melbourne Majesty’s
due on Saturday, is anticipated on the
posters by a picture of a mostly undraped
young lady whose loveliness above the waist-
line is partly concealed bv a pair of metal
meat-covers. The panto, is “The Sleeping
Beauty,” the advt. whereof promises a
Brilliant Aggregation of artists and 500 sur-
prises.
* * if if
Melbourne King’s is closed until Satur-
day on account of “Mother Hubbard.” From
its name the entertainment may be suspected
of panto intentions, apart from the fact
that Barry Lupino is going to be disguised
in the matron’s part.
Melbourne Princess’s returns to melo-
drama on Saturday with a said-to-oe new
and original shocker entitled “Jutland.” In
addition to its great naval battle, there is
to be an air raid on London and a boxing
contest; but the prices, despite these stu-
pendous attractions, will continue to be
popular.
Madlaine Traverse, who was hoisted into
notice by Hoyt’s in Melbourne last week,
has a pretty, mobile countenance, but she
isn't compelled to disarrange it in "Gambling
in Souls,” which is a very hackneyed yarn
of revenge where the loaded die is cast to
produce the expected surprise in the last
chapter. Bryant Washburn in “Poor Boob”
gets nearer the lunatic asylum by unpar-
donable insanities until a bright stenographer
"PEG O' MY HEART,"
AT SYDNEY
PALACE.
“Outraged Dignity." IF. J. Coulter as
Jarvis.
heads him off on a course of simplicity,
safety and solvency. Probably if Dorothy
Dalton had seen the “Boob,” she would have
avoided the sins of “Extravagance” and
made a rather wearisome lilm superfluous.
.At the Melba Norma Talmadge as “Pan-
thea” shared the first half of the week with
Charlie Chaplin, who is brisk and foolish
as “A Gentleman of Nerve.” At present
Lucille Lee Stewart is the current pheno-
menon in “The Eleventh Commandment,”
and fairly challenges the claim of “Paid in
Advance” (Dorothy Phillips) for the thrum
of the picture-gazer at the Britannia.
“Lightnin’ ” continues to draw vast crowds
to Sydney Criterion. The acting is good ;
the girls are beautiful; and the spectacle
of Bill revives the sweets of memory and
the pleasures of hope—of past days when
six o’clock closing and beer-strikes were not,
and of a time to come when both shall be
no more. What more can the public fairly
demand for its admission-money?
Sara Allgood is saying good-bye to Syd-
ney in “Peg o’ My Heart,” and the little
play should keep the Palace busy for some
time. Poor Peg’s admiration for “me father’s
speeches” and the quotations therefrom suit
the present election atmosphere. Miss ,0.11-
good’s artistry is as true as ever, and the
pity is that she hadn’t a second play of
the calibre of “Peg” for the long Austra-
lian season. Lawrence Cecil plays Jerry
in the present production, and there are
alterations in most of the other parts. Cecil
Brooking scores well again as Alaric Chi-
chester.
* * *
“The Bing Boys on Broadway,” the
J.C.W. Christinas attraction for Sydney,
opens at Her Majesty’s on Saturday night*.
Sydney Crystal Palace and the Strand
have netted the charms of another Dolores,
“the naked swimming girl of the Northlands.”
Dolores is a cross between Diana and Una.
But she is not confined to a mere lion or two
for her protectors; bears and dogs and a
whole forest-full of tusks and teeth guard
her, so that the bold, bad man hasn’t a chance
to introduce the Continental bathing idea.
“Back to God’s Country” the big commotion
is named; and the, attraction is further en-
hanced by the naive advertisement that asks:
“Is the Nude Rude?” In “Over the Gar-
den Wall” at the Lyceum, Bessie Love be-
comes a farmerette to repair the family for-
tunes, which she does by cultivating the
next-door chauffeur, who turns out to' be a
millionaire. So, besides having silver-beet
any day, she has diamonds and motor-cars.
“The Struggle Everlasting,” at the Globe, is
a morality play with a difference. Bodv,
mind and soul are the conflicting elements,
with Florence Reed as the beautiful, sinuous,
alluring body. Billie Burke in “Good
Gracious, Annabelle,” and Enid Bennett in
“Partners Three,” a story of punctured
water-bags in the desert, keep Hoyt’s and
the Haymarket going.
❖ v # if
Blistering heat in Adelaide has been
against all shows except those in'the open.
At Austral Gardens an Anderson co. is
showing “Fads and Fashions” under the
starlight. Judgment mercifully reserved, the
first week having been rallier a scratch
effort, with _ much better things promised.
The Majestic bill is varied, with Durno’s
trick cycling. Lemounier’s clean athletic
work and a batch of performing cats to set
off against Leonard Nelson’s chorus songs
(largely Australian) and the welcome
llaverley and O’Neil couple in a succession
of Irish-American extravagances. The
“Lure of the Bush” at the Royal shows
Snowy Baker in a series of stunts that
might make even Douglas Fairbanks tired;
especially notable is his all-in fight' to a
finish with a black-haired youth whose name
deserves to be on the programme. Women
seem to find a remarkable attraction in
Wondergraph’s “Don’t Change Your Hus-
band.” It is a sermon directed at the Ameri-
can woman, and loses much of its point
in a State where divorce can’t be obtained
for mere caprice. ( And not for much else
either. . With nearly 10 p.c. of the whole
population of the Commonwealth, S. Aus.
averages only about 2 p.c. of the divorces.)
At West’s, Jack Pickford is back after long
absence, and proves about as effective as his
sister. The Pav. has May Allison, located
in a thrilling “Island of Intrigue.” Good
concerts are numerous, the best lately those
of the Orpheus Society and the brilliant
Brewster Jones.
Harry Dearth, now ending his tour in
Australia, was included in the first list of
Quinlan Opera artists announced as coming
to this country in 1912. William Samuells,
since deceased, came and sang in his stead.
When a man forms himself into a union
and then charges everybody else £2O to come
in, things look lop-sided. The Musicians
didn't quite do that; still if the crowd in-
side had been bigger and the crowd outside
smaller and the price of admission less
ruinous, the late strike might have worked
better.
“Biobox”: Joe Linman, acquitted in Mel-
bourne of"the charge of exhibiting an in-
decent picture (“Damaged Goods”), is an
Adelaide ex-tailor, whose smart amateur
acting took him first on to the local boards
and later into the picture field, where he
has had considerable success. lie is too
good a showman to allow his prejudices to
interfere with business. A Hebrew, one of
Ms first financial triumphs was with the
film, “The Life of Christ.”
Joseph Hatch, the ancient who has had
the distinction of holding a lease of the
farthest-south occupied land in the world,
has pursued Hurley, the Antarctic photo-
grapher, to Sydney, and wants to “have it
out with him” on a public platform. The
row, of course, is all about the alleged cruel
slaughter of penguins and sea-elephants
and suchlike at Macquarie Island. “Old
Joe” Hatch’s idea is that over this matter
Australia has had its leg pulled.
“Chanco” : “Pollio” (B. 4/12/T9) in try-
ing to point the way to Melbourne music
critics falls badly. To begin with, the
critics of the three dailies are all profes-
sional musicians of standing. Secondly,
their criticisms, if thoroughly honest and in-
dependently arrived at, would naturally
duier, more especially in the higher branches
of their work, for the very obvious reason
that music is an art and not an exact
science. As to the statement that the critics
fell into the stupid blunder of announcing
that Beethoven’s Opus No. 3 was to be
played at a forthcoming concert instead of
Opus No. 111. the small par tacked to the
criticism and giving such preliminary
announcements is never written by the
critic. It is handed in by the concert agent.
“0.K.”: London is threatened with a new
play-producing society, which will confine its
energies to Sunday and Monday afternoons.
Calling itself the Phoenix to account for
its resurrectionary purposes, it talks of re-
viving the comedies of Dryden, which were
not considered great works even in the
author’s day. Presumably it will not over-
look the comedy whereat the Duke of Buck-
ingham got off his famous gibe. The dis-
tressed heroine wrung her hands and cried:
“My wound is great, because it is so small.”
Buckingham, in one of the boxes, stood up
and added: “Then ’twould be greater were
it none at all!” This was at the second
performance of the play, so the ducal im-
promptu that damned it had doubtless been
prepared beforehand. Buckingham ridiculed
the old poet in his burlesque play, “The Re-
hearsal,” but the poet scored years later by
satirising the duke in lines which have been
quoted for nearly two and a half centuries: —
A man so various that he seemed to be
Not one, hut all mankind’s epitome.
Stiff in opinions, always in the wrong;
Was everything by starts and nothing long ;
But in the course of one revolving moon
Was chvmist. fiddler, statesman and buffoon.


I
The Ideal Illuminant for Your Home.
If your home lighting' is secured from acetylene gas, the very best Carbide
that you can use is “TASMA”—
The Australian Carbide.
“Tasma” Carbide has been thoroughly tested, and has been proved to be
the equal of the best European Carbide hitherto imported. It is free from
phosphorus and other poisonous gases, reaches a high standard in burning
value and quality of light, and is decidedly the most economical Carbide
that you can buy. Specify “Tasma” Carbide and support Australian
Industry.
If vour Storekeeper cannot supply, write for fullparticulars to
DISTRIBUTING AGENTS—
VICTORIA: Noyes Bros. (Melb.) Pty., Ltd., 499-501 Bourke
Street, Melbourne.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Noyes Bros. (Sydney), Ltd., Clarence
Street, Sydney
QUEENSLAND: Samuel Allen & Sons, Ltd., Brisbane and Towns-
ville.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Arthur H. Hasell, Port Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Arthur H. Hasell, Perth.
TASMANIA: Gillies Bros., 74 Collins Street, Hobart.
An Australian Industry
A
Very special quality Diamond
Bar Brooch. Choice Ceirs.
Platinum. Masterful work-
manship, £lO5.
Fine Diamond and Platinum
Brooch. Exquisite design
and workmanship, £B4.
- '--v-.
m
mm;
.iigh-grade Baume “Longines” Watch,
with 15ct. Gold expanding band, £24.
9ct. ditto, on silk band, £ll/11/-
CbriStrpas <aifts.
The Firm’s selections of Diamond and Gem Rings, Jewellery, Watches, e t 1 -,
are replete with the very newest designs in finest quality and workmanship.
They afford exceptional opportunity for selecting Christmas and bew Year Gifts
of refinement and distinction, at prices to meet every requirement, and include
the following:—
Diamond & Gem Rings :: Jewellery :: Gem Brooches
:: Fine Pearl Necklaces ::
Expanding Bracelet Watches :: Men s Watches
Gold & Silver Ware :: Folding Clocks
Tortoiseshell, Ivory and Silver Toilet Articles
High-grade Leather Goods :: Suit Cases
Etc. :: Presents for Men :: Etc.
The same care and attention are bestowed upon an order received by mail as
upon an order given in person. The Firm’s Ring or Watch Catalogue will be sent
post free upon request, and, where desired, selections of jewellery or other aitieles
will be sent, upon approval, to any address in the Commonwealth, entirely at
the Firm’s own risk and expense.
Win t ©rummmtD & Co,
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
.'....
Electric Motors
There is a Westinghouse Motor for every power application purpose,.
They are built in all types and sizes—both alternating and direct current.
They are built to withstand severe service and to give maximum
efficiency at a minimum operating cost.
They are remarkable for their sturdy eiectrical and mechanical con-
struction. and exhibit that simplicity and reliability which can only
accrue from long experience in designing and manufacturing. We
have manufactured more than 1,500,000 hp. of motors.
The smaller sizes are characterized by that lightness and compactness
which is so very desirable where they are to be mounted as a part
of machine equipment.
A good—Westinghouse—motor ic the only one that will enable you
to realise to the full the advantages of electric driving.
The knowledge and experience of our experts is at your service.
fs
0f
m
Manchester
AUSTRALIAN OFFICES:—
81 William Street, Melbourne. 14 Martin Place, Sydney.
AGENTS:
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LIMITED,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Perth.
imtiiiiiiiiminiii iijiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiimiimiMijmmmiminiiiiiimm...... ii
•pu\>i#\io ‘43|sauou\2W — s M JO M
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiTiiiiimuiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiuiuiiiiiiuuiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiuiuiiHiiiiiiiiiiiiuuuuiiiii
MAXWELL TRUCKS.
CONSIDER what it means to drive a 30cwt. truck loaded with
2200 pounds for 3428 miles, up and down narrow, rough
and rocky or washed-out mountainous roads, up steady
climbs of 1 2 miles travelling sometimes at an altitude of two miles,
again through sticky clay or desert sand, through seas of heavy
mud or fords of mountain freshets.
This run was made across the American continent from San
Francisco to New York by a Maxwell 30cwt. Truck, in 1 7 days
8 hours and 20 minutes—a remarkable performance for any
truck, but just what one would expect from a truck backed by
5 years of experience in building Maxwell Motor Cars proverbial
for their endurance and economy. Magneto, Worm Drive, 10
foot loading space, electric lights and generator. Right or left
hand drive optional.
p
on
ft
MAXWELL MOTOR CO., Inc.,
OF DETROIT, MICH.
John D. Williams & Company,
Export Distributors.
2 Rector Street, New York.
Calle Address: “ Liandum —New York”
More miles per gallon.
More miles on tyres.
Messrs. Clutterbuck Bros. Ltd.
26-38 City Road, Sydney.


CAN’T BEAT COCOANUT
OIL FOR HAIR WASH.
Girls and women wlio wish to keep their
hair in nice condition should be most cautious
in the soap they wash it with. Most
soaps and ready-mixed shampoos contain
excessive quantities of alkali. This dries
the scalp, makes the hair brittle and is very
injurious. Just ordinary colinated cocoanul
oil (a pure, saponified but quite greaseless
liquid) is far better than the most costly
soap you could possibly use for a shampoo,
for this cannot possibly hurt your hair.
Merely wet your hair with water and rub it
on. A couple of teaspoonsful make a perfect
flood of rich, thick, creamy lather, and
cleanses both hair and scalp thoroughly. The
lather rinses out easily, and takes with it
every trace of dust, dirt, dandruff or excessive
oiliness. The hair dries quickly and evenly,
and comes out fine and silky, bright, glossy
and fluffy, appearing to be heavier than it is.
And, best of all, this colinated cocoanut oil
leaves the hair as easy to dress again as
though you hadn’t washed it at all. You can
get colinated cocoanut oil at most any chemist,
but be sure it’s “colinated,” which is not
expensive—a few ounces lasting a long, long
time.
Instantly! Corn Pains Vanish!
Corns Loosen! Lift Right Off!
No Hurts! Few Drops Loosen Corns and Callouses so
They Brush Off—Never Let Corns Pain
Twi ze —No Joke!
V"*!
For a few pence you may obtain
a Lttle phial of the wizard inven-
tion, Frozol-Ice, x’ecently discov-
ered by an eminent chemist.
Merely inquire of any chemist
for a tiny bottle of
Frozol-Ice. Put a few
drops on to a sensitive,
throbbing corn or callous
and iilte a flash all soreness
goes away, and soon you find
the corn or callous so loose that
you can lift it right out with the
lingers.
Just fancy! Not one trace of pain in apply-
ing Frozol-Ice. or afterwards. Not the slight-
est inflammation of surrounding healthy flesh.
Corns between the toes, hard corns, soft
corns, also toughened callouses on the bottom
of the feet wither up and fall off without
hurting one wee bit. Frozol-Ice is a scientific
substance manufactured from ether, and the
genuine is always sold in these little bottles,
inside a round, green carton.
Refuse false imitations with similar names.
Drinking Water
With Meals Stops
Stomach Disorders.
Thousands of unfortunate people suffer
almost daily from dyspepsia, indigestion,
fermentation, sour acid stomach, flatulence,
gases or distress after eating. If they would
only form the agreeable habit of slowly drink-
ing with each meal a glassful of hot watef
containing a teaspoonful of pure Salix Mag-
nesia. they would soon find their stomach so
much strengthened and improved that they
might eat the richest and most satisfying
meals without the least symptom of indi-
gestion.
Salix Magnesia is highly effective in stomach
and intestinal disorders, aud is very pleasant
to the taste, and in the form of fine" powder—
never liquid or milk, and is not a laxative.
-Auv first-class chemist can supply you with
this Salix Magnesia.
From Poverty Point to Luxury—a meal at the “PAVlLlON”—Sydney’s Dining Rooms de luxe, Circular Quay.
POVERTY
POINT
MOET &
CHANDON
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
‘O.K.” : Ada Crcssley has taken a “silent
farewell’ of the British, public and concert
platform. It was best that way. Soon
after her marriage, in 1905, Ada’s voice
went all to pieces, and although dramatic
and musical artists can live a long while
on a name in Britain, thev mostly want
more name, or stronger backing to it, than
the once-popular Miss Crossley could offer
a latter-day audience. I heard her in the
Queen’s Hall, London, a dozen years ago,
and was astonished at the deterioration in
her voice. Subsequently she paid another
visit to Australia, and the result gave her
no encouragement to attempt a farewell
tour even of her native country.
After E. J. Carroll (who handled “The
Sentimental Bloke”) has turned Steele
Rudd’s “Selection” into a picture, he wants
to take a chance with “I act’ry ’Ands.”
Edward Dyson has been asked to personally
adapt it to screen requirements.
ON TOUR.
REP. OF THE ROYAL DRAMATIC DEAD-BEAT
CO.: “Any t-r-rains?"
PUBKEEPER : “ There's one at ’arparsten. But
that's for starving stock only.”
REP.: "The Lord has provided! Behold ,
what arc we but starving stock?”
Julius Knight gets , back to the London
stage as a detective. But it is a big part,
one of the chief in a new Mark Ambient
drama at the Scala, “The Net,” and the ’tec
is called a “psycho-analyst.” A lieutenant
shoots himself with his major’s revolver.
The woman, who is more or less in love
with both of them, wonders whether it is
suicide or murder. The major, who knows
only that he didn’t do it, calls in Julius to
clear up the mystery, and the detective finds
every reason to believe that his employer
was really guilty—nil rather like the old
"Witness for the Defence.”
"0.K.”: These brilliant coloratura star
vocalists seem to have all the same limita-
tions of interpretive power. Tetrazzini to-
day is singing the showy numbers with
which Melba made her biggest hits on the
concert platform. She adds songs and bal-
lads for encore purposes, and of these a recent
London notice said “with one exception, Lan-
don Ronald's ‘Down in the Forest,’ they were
ill-chosen.” Almost the same might be said
of the minor items that Melba gave on the
concert platform. The only song with which
she charmed the critical was that same
“Down in the Forest.” Of Tetrazzini tack-
ling ordinary songs by British composers,
ancient or modern, the critic said : “Dozens
of British artists can sing them far better.”
Almost as sweeping a remark might be made
on Melba’s rendering of popular ballads. As
for such versatility in art as a Dolores dis-
plays, the brilliant soprano queens of opera
never try to rival it. Having the prima-
donna voice with the prima-donna tempera-
ment they do a few great operatic things in
a great voealistic way, and for the rest they
trade on their reputation.
“75”: Fuller’s bellowdraina co. lias estab-
lished a record at Melbourne Palace, having
just got through a season of 12(5 weeks,
during which 100 changes of bill were given.
It is estimated that'if all the corpses strewn
about the stage in this period were placed
one on top of another they would reach
almost to the summit of T. .T. Ryan’s
political ambition, and if all the gore spilt
was poured into the Cotter the site of
Federal Parliament House would be sub-
merged.
“Smike”: Wensley Russell, principal girl
in “Mother Hubbard” at Melbourne King’s,
is the fourth generation of Russell to use
the greasepaint, her great-grandad founding
the family reputation in association with
Keane in the early infancy of the 19th cen-
tury. The old man, who was alleged to
have saved the celebrated Edmund from the
pressgang at Hull, registered a hit in
“Twelfth Night at Covent Garden and else-
where. Wensley’s dad is still an active
member of the profession, and at latest was
doing Courtice Pounds’s part of Ali Baba
in “Chu Chin Chow” in London. The Wens-
ley, by the way, comes from a maternal
ancestor, Emma Wensley, a Shakspearean
actress, who played Juliet to Kemble’s
Romeo at London Ilaymarket in 1820.
“Movie”; Wilfred Lucas, the producer
imported by E. J. Carroll, is not making
the pace he anticipated. His original con-
tract was for three pictures-in a little over
three months. His first is only just ready,
nearly a month overdue. He struck some
rotten luck. His first 1500-feet, taken at
Kangaroo Valley, was fogged and had to be
retaken. Then he tried taking interiors in
the scene dock at Sydney Royal, but the
artificial- lighting was too poor for good
work. He finished the interiors by daylight
in the Trust’s studios at Ilushcutter’s Bay.
All these delays meant loss of money, and
the cost of the first picture will run into
close on five figures. But if Carroll can
create a market for his films on the other
side a little thing like that won’t matter.
The ads. of disengaged fdayers in The
Actor (London) have been so arranged as to
give a special column to men back from
active service, with a bold heading “Should
Be Engaged First.” Some men are declin-
ing the “advantage” of this advt. They
don’t want to hear: “I’m afraid I’ve nothing
at present. After all, you fellows have got
to realise that you’ve been away a long-
time” ; or “My dear fellow, you must be
prepared to take half your original salary in
order to get back.” These two speeches were
actually made. One actor who had enlisted
in 1915 recently swore to a manager that he
had never been in the army, but had been
playing in America. So it’s all working back
to the old thing. Next time the wise soldier
will make sure that he gets all he expects to
get as he goes along.
“Fax”: Looks as though a first-class
teacher of singing, and a Britisher at that,
has. been secured for the Melbourne Conser-
vatorium of Music, where Melba used to
amuse herself by giving “lessons” occasion-
ally. Francis Harford, the expert in ques-
tion, is himself a singer of some reputation,
and he comes from the College of Music
at Manchester, where professors are expected
to know their business. But the best of
teachers can only get good results from
teachable pupils. Teachers don’t make
famous singers. Brilliant pupils make
famous teachers.
Two tiny grandchildren of the late George
Coppin have just made their first appearance
on any stage, and shown themselves to be
inheritors of the family talent. The per-
formance took place at an entertainment
got up to gratify the occupants of the Old
Colonists’ Home, an institution which Vic-
toria owes to Coppin.
“Stalled Ass”: In attempting to show
that chorus-girls on tour in Maoriland are
not underpaid. Charlie Wenman. a J.C.W.
associate-director, only succeeded in proving
the contrary. Wenman stated that the girls
are paid £3 12s. (Id., which he considers
adequate, and then lie went on to mention
that chorus-men receive £4 10s. It may be
safely assumed that the Firm is not going
to overpay any Australian, however gener-
ously it may treat some imported per-
formers ; so if a fair wage for a chorus
male is 14 10s. the female of the species
must be worth £6 at least. No woman goes
to a show to see her favorite chorus-boy in
a new dress, and no critic has ever accused
the men of representing SO per cent, of the
attractiveness of a performance, though a
remark to this effect, about the girls creeps
into almost every notice concerning a musical
frivolity.
“B.”: Two Australians are associated
with a new London musical show, “The
Girl for the Boy,” which is an adaptation
of the French “La Petite Choeolatiere.”
previously anglicised as “Tantalising
Tommy.” Most of the music was provided
by Howard Carr, who was one of the Firm’s
conductors before he married pretty Trixie
Tracey, a Bulletin Melbourne Chatterer,
and critics seem agreed that most, if not
all, the fun is supplied by comedian W. K.
Percy. Mamma Tracey, by the way, has left
London for Australia.
“D.N.”: The recent deputation to the
Sydney City Council for the lowering of
the pitch of the Town Hall organ brings
forcibly to mind the need there is for some
uniformity in the pitch of pianos in this
country. Most pianos sold in Australia are
set at what is called “concert pitch”—that
is, the most suitable for brass and the wood
instruments we have. No artist of standing
will sing to this pitch, as it is too high;
yet teachers all over the country try to
teach the young to sing to it. The conse-
quence is that though Australia abounds in
“AS YOU WERE." AT SYDNEY TIVOLL
Sir Bilyon Boost (Bert Clark) transported
through the ages by magic pills.
good voices more are massacred than de-
veloped. The ignorance of many teachers
in this regard is deplorable; many do not
know the pitch of their own pianos. Artists
like Melba and Dolores sing to Continental
pitch—roughly half a tone below concert
pitch. The musical societies ought to take
the matter up, and the N.S.W. Government,
with its penchant for promoting music,
should do something in the way of licensing-
teachers.
“Silas”: “One of the best things was
John Forde’s rendering of a Man with a
Blue Envelope,” says the Age, criticising
“Theodore and Co.” at Melbourne Royal.
It wafted me back —how many years? Thirty-
five at least —to my first sight of “The
Mikado,” witnessed from the gallery of the
same theatre, when this same John Forde
played the part of Katisha’s father-in-law-
elect, and played it so well that the impres-
sion remains with me as strong to-day as at
the moment, although I have since seen about
a score of Mikados, most of whom I have
forgotten. John Forde’s Mikado had a dis-
tinct Milesian brogue, and was acted in a
spirit of broadest comedy. I would like
to see him do it a~ain even if he is 109 not
out. By the way, are there any other sur-
vivors of that long ago op. co. in harness
in Australia, or is Johnnie the last rose?
"Stargazer”: As anticipated by some of
his friends at this end, Bert Bailey finds it
impossible to secure a London theatre for
his Australian plays. Old-established local
managers are in the same predicament, and
every antiquated thing in the shape of a
theatre is being utilised for one kind of
entertainment or another. In fact, man-
agers who would have disdained to be seen
in a suburban house are now competing for
“shops” in any old place accessible by tram
“PEG O’ MY HEART"
AT SYDNEY
PALACE.
“Doocid
stogpid.
what!"
Cecil Brooking
as Alaric.
or train. The best chance Bailey has offered
him is one held out by Robert Courtneidge
who, if one or two things of his own do
not run to inordinate length, will have room
for “On Our Selection” somewhere about
1923. Bert has decided to hang on in the
hope of a cataclysm, or a visitation of Pro-
vidence, or something.
“Vaudeville Vet.”: George Dean is not
merely still “hale and hearty” (B.
20/11/T9) ; he is as brisk as any juvenile in
the bus., and so is his present partner,
Tommy Leonard, whose professional career
goes back as far. The pair are now in vaude-
ville as Reed and Wright, though both are
known from one end of Australia to the
other under their own names. Up in Rock-
hampton recently the local vaudeville man-
ager stood at his office door waiting the
arrival of Reed and Wright. Up bustled
the two bright youths. “What the blazes
are you doing up here again?” asked the
manager. “We’re the new act,” they
explained blithely—“ Reed and Wright.”
The local man looked them over with dis-
gust. “Reed and Wright be damned,” he
said. “Where’s your ziffs?”
“Ox”: There is no doubt about D’Orsay
Ogden playing Svengali. He did it under
his own management at the old Victoria
Theatre, Parramatta, where he played a
stock season, running three nights a week
for almost a year. Afterwards he trans-
ferred to the Standard (now the disused
Little Theatre), Sydney. Fanny Wiseman
was in at least one production of Trilby
with him. I think the limitations of the
co. thrust the trousered part of Zou-Zou
unon her. Other of Ogden’s plays were
“Led Astray,” “Oliver Twist,” “The
Duchess of Coolgardie,” “Jack Sheppard,”
a good farce-comedy “On Change” and "Rip
Van Winkle.” Parramatta in those days
was called “the actors’ saviour.” Now it
can only support movies and a very
occasional Cosgrove. Ogden’s bunch were
a happy family. There was a dwelling
immediately in front of the theatre, and
the whole show lived alongside its work.
If they needed recreation there was a large
ballroom in the basement.
“The True Story of the Kelly Gang,” as
screened by Harry Southwell, of the Vit'-
graph Co., breathes a more wdiolesome senti-
ment than the pictorial bellowdrama with
which the Taits earned £lO,OOO profit, or
thereabouts, at the outset of their career as
showmen. The film story starts with an
announcement that the Kellys were unfavor-
ably known to the police before murder
drove them to the ranges, and with the
exception of Ned—the brains of the
Quartet—they present a strictly unheroic
appearance. One of them carries a pocket-
comb and bit of looking-glass, and is for-
ever combing his hair to the annoyance of
Dan. Of their womenkind Kate is a decent
sort of sister, whereas Mrs. Kelly figure-
as a virago who sticks at nothing as far as
the police are concerned. For instance,
she hits a. trooper on the head with a
after telling a lie about his treatment of
Kate. With a little elimination of detail
Southwell’s picture should be a sure attrac-
tion, _ for the title has not much less com-
mercial value to-day than when the Taits
exploited it, whilst the film is vastly better
in all respects than the b£st on the market
15 years ago.
REALISING HIS DREAM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When I was young and innocent,
A knickerboekered jay
Came to our township to present
An elevating play.
A creature fairer than the morn,
With hair as yellow as new corn.
Her eyes were bluer than clean seas
’Meath lovely tropic skies.
And I was ten. “Oh!” said 1; “she’s
Most beautiful and wisei”
Her fairy image long I prized—
My fondest dreams she realised.
Oft till my years were seventeen
l saw her play, and she
Was loveliest that had ever been,
The sweetest that could be,
And still, though older far than I,
All my ideals did typify.
Years went, and I’d grown stout and grey,
With daughters of iny own ;
And then I wrote a noble play,
And it was to be shown.
To town I made my pilgrimage
To see the drama on the stage.
They told me that the lady fair
IVho led the Thespian team
Was fine, and tall, and debonair—
She realised my dream.
With hope elate I saw, ah me!
The girlish heroine! ’Turns she!
VICTORIA.
DIDO.


? - 5 % I !
» *v- '* i
* Hi - gi
■V v 4
(| || t§tf|gi®
' mIIK
■nonm
s - ,S ggii * - -SS f
. . . .. . . ' t>-
mm
frjSmSMi
mm
'ii'-t't-.
■>:
sags
'XM
*&5
K&
' .
r
K...
■ ' V
* ::■ •
srsi
'*y . 3
, •■«
MM
’' ;'.js
■ ■• , 'III' S
mm i i
„ * *»■*> ",'tf^
SSI®
Jplpll
If
■.
s! °*§i g|g
■;Bm
V »j „ | > , fJ
V v^ < <r' ''’' ' '' yS i &«*? '^gllf?
*4
.
• *
;■>’... i
WPS
!•■■„
SiffiiSSiali
- - «« ,f<r ! ; < 'ic'SfXi-'? * & mgM ->/;■■«
|p
.
’■'••i'-i
■.
.
a
• ■ w
;- :>-
f ■ y ,-'j
u
wmmmm
M
i
• V
■
mXmSm
:
m
- \
i
illi
:: ;•
1
£
;
: :
s
■ ■ it
7
(ten Sir John Monash
Copyright Watson's No. 10 Whisky.
-cxjno
X
A NEW SERIES OF HISTORY MAKERS.
THE above portrait of G;n. Sir John Monash is one of a new series of drawing’s specially
executed for us by W. Jardine. Reproduced on the finest of art paper, and being- entirely
free from advertising matter, they make, when framed, a charming acquisition to the home.
The complete set, consisting of Admiral Sir D. Beatty, Earl Haig',
General Sir W. Bird wood, General Sir W. Robertson,
General Foch, Vice-Admiral Sir F. C. D. Sturdee, General
Sir John Monash will be sent to any address on receipt of six penny (Commonwealth)
stamps. As the production is limited, we advise you to write and secure a set immediately to
JAMES WATSON & CO, LTD., 26 King Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
J
M o 1 o
%
V


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whl § k y
Sole Agents : RESCH3, LlfllTED, Redlern, Sydney.
Goldfinder Soap
LEWIS &WhITTY MELBOURNE &SYBNEY
T
Made in Australia.
Again Available.
Cheaper than ever.
Obtainable at all
Storekeepers, Saddlers,
Blacksmiths, Produce
Merchants.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
DON'T LET TINKER
MICK SIMMONS
DO THE JOB
PROPERLY
The feature of Melbourne district cricket
on Saturday was an unimpeachable 173 by Baring
for East against Prahran. 1-Ie played in his best
style, and decorated his achievement with 20 fours
and one six, the latter bit going right out of the
ground. Mainly through Baring’s contribution P’ran
showed a deficit of 184 on the first innings. Else-
where the ball had the best of the arguments, and
became a superior weapon in the hands of Shea
(Essendon), Johnson (North Melbourne), Freemantle
(Uni.) and Armstrong (Melbourne). Shea, with a
tally of five for 36, was (he ruin of Carlton, who
couid only make 184 to the Dons’ eight for 312
(.declared closed), and therefore lost by 128 on the
first hits. Collingwood, with two dovm for 75 in
response to North’s 176, looked like getting the
decision, but Johnson bagged six of their best for
54, and finally left them 26 behind. Freemantle, who
represents a park of artillery in the University
attack, broke through Northc-ote’s defences and booked
five for 48, and the Students’ 285 was out of ’Cote’s
reach to the extent of 161. In effectiveness Arm-
strong’s six for 59 for Melbourne v. Fitzroy was the
most conspicuous average of the afternoon. Barring
Kiernan (67? and Tait (41), ’Rov fell headlong
before the wilv onslaught “of the international, with
the result that Melbourne’s 329 for nine (declared
closed) left them 147 in front. There was nothing
startling in the match between Richmond and South
Melbourne. It was a meeting of pacifists, in which
Richmond were the losers by 22 runs.
* * * *
Adelaide club cricket, suspended for
nearly a month for holidays and inter-State matches,
leaves East Torrens easily head of the list, with
every match won to date. Sturt and Port Adelaide,
each with one loss, come next.
The Sheffield-shield contests start again
this week-end, with N. S. Wales against S.A. in
Adelaide. There is no line by which to estimate
form, and anything may happen. The S.A. dozen
selected are much as expected: Batsmen Gehrs,
Steele, Vic. Richardson and Pritchard; all-rounders
Townsend, Arthur Richardson, Rundell and Wills-
more ; wicketkeeper Selth, chosen for his equally
sound batting (Gordon Campbell v’as not available,
anyway) ; bowlers Whittv, Lucas and Williams, these
last two being new to inter-State play. The cap-
tain is Gehrs, who is getting on towards the veteran
stage. Vice-captain, Don Steele, who has just taken
his degree in medicine.
* * * #
Victoria’s champion fast bowler McDonald,
of Fitzroy, is not likely to represent his State this
season. His pace has slowed down considerably, owing
to ill-health. Some weeks ago, on account of throat
trouble, he underwent an operation which has affected
his eyes, and a further operation is necessary. In
the inter-State matches last season he proved to be
Australia’s best bowler, and against S. Aus. and
N. S. Wales he secured 25 wickets, while no other
Vic. bowler could manage 10. Mac’s performance
in Sydney when he got eight for 42 is a record for
a Vic. bowler against the Ma State.
* * * -X
The sixth round of Sydney grade cricket
opened on Saturday without the men picked to rep-
resent N. S. Wales against S.A. and Vic. ; and pub-
lic interest relaxed accordingly. The fielding of
Single in the slips and the bright batting of the
versatile Prentice (both Western Suburbs) were
the features of the Waverley v. W.S. match. The
Boneyarders scraped together 169, and the Westerner’s
have so far lost four for 105. Promising colt Wells top-
scored w'th 50 for Paddington, who got only 139
against C. Cumberland. The latter are within six
runs of their score with four wickets in hand. Cox
43 n.o. and Stan Thomas 56. ’Varsity ousted Bal-
main for 212 (the highest first-grade total for the
day). Folkard, who is playing himself into form,
got 50, and T. Ratcliffe, who had as many lives as
a cat, 46. ’Varsity have lost three for 68, and it is
anybody’s game. Gordon could get only 167 runs v.
Sydney, 67 of them contributed by young Watts,
on promotion, and 32 by Diamond, a trifle shakily.
Asher (five for 42) was Sydney’s most reliable
bowler. Considering his style, his length was re-
markable. Sydney are 80 runs behind with eight,
wickets in hand, and with Macartney away they
should get there. Middle Harbor (17i) and Peter-
sham (120) each had a strike. For the former
Gee played attractively for 38. In getting a
similar score for Petersham, Russell several times
endangered the lives of spectators. Adams (four for 58),
whose inclusion in a State team has given him
heart, bowled w’ell for Petersham. It was the
joint effort of Graves (three for 65) and Gray
(five for 48) that was responsible for Norths’ rather
feeble 165 against Glebe. Hall, always “there”
when wanted, played vigorously for 58, while Rupe
Minnett (42) kept his end up. Glebe have lost
three for 126 (Berry 42), but don’t forget Glebe’s
proneness to suddenly’ peter out.
* * * *
Melbourne punters have had some disap-
pointments with Chal since he ran away with the
valuable Can tala Stakes at Flemington on Derby Day.
But some of them got it back last Saturday. Chal
was quoted at 4 to 1 for the Aspendale Plate flutter
ere the money came rolling in and the price short-,
ened to 7 to 4. In the race he shaped like an odds-
on chance almost from the start, and his win was
very decisive. The one-time unsatisfactory son of
Maltfield seems to have matured into a quite classy
horse.
On Saturday Rosehill saw some candidates
who had more important engagements pending. The
dogs were barking Aries for the Clyde Stakes, but
the race went to the in-an-out Nauteh Girl. She
was let go—a style of racing which evidently suited
her, as she won rather easily’, the Gfur. taking but
Imin. 131 see. The imported Fleurant annexed the
Handicap, the ..favorite Pah King being unable to
foot it with the winner after giving him 291 b.
Another Mountain King horse, Mount Frisco, carried
big money in the Granville Stakes and had no
trouble in beating the opposition. Punters collected
again on the last race, the Parramatta Mile. In this
event Kenilford, Sam Hordern’s Melbourne Cup
hope, gave the others a start and a licking.
* * * *
At the Q.T.C. meeting Thana and Ilad-I-
Wist had the principal race, the Hanley Plate
(lm. 3fur. w.f.a), pretty much to themselves as,
although the latter won not unexpectedly over his
favorite distance, there were six lengths between
the mare and the other place-getter. An ex-Sydney-
sider in Sobrina started favorite for the Southport
Handicap but was unplaced, Broadacre, one of the
numerous Linacre family, being the winner.
* * * *
Gloaming and Sasanof (9st. 61b.) are
unlikely starters for the Auckland Cup (2m.) run at
Christmas time, the former, who received 131 b.
over w.f.a., being nominated merely to keep the
handicapper from allotting too much weight to the
owner’s second string, Falstaff and Karo.
* * * *
Cabled that “the Derby failure, The
Panther, which was valued at £40,000 as a two-
year-old has been sold to a buyer in the Argentine.”
When The Panther beat Major (now Lord) Astor’s
Buchan by a neck in the Guineas he was greeted as the
greatest horse in England.
However, he ran rottenlj’
in the Derby (Epsom) and
in the Irish Derby, and
was pulled out of the
Leger. His owner, Alec
Black, started life as a
shipping clerk (like Lord
Glanelv, owner of Grand
Parade) and now has the
biggest trawling fleet in
the world.
The scooter craze
which struck some other
parts of the world and de-
veloped into rush-abouts
“luxuriously fitted and
electrically lighted” never
caught Australia. A few
years ago Americans tried
to introduce the machine
and spent money on an
advertising campaign, but
it fizzled. Yet the con-
traption has some points,
and is getting more.
Latest designs include a
sort of skeleton seat which
does away with one of the
big objections, while with
a tandem arrangement
Bert can scoot his best
girl away to any spot
which they choose’ for a
holiday paradise—p r o-
vided the track isn’t strewn
with boulders.
MAT ELLIS, horse
owner and sport.
“FY7 ’: “Snell’s” yarn of the despairing
bookie and his heartbroken comments as he paid out
(B. 20/11/’l9) recalls the late “Steppef” Davis of
N.Q. Stepper was the original of the goat-race
story. “Only two goats in that race —me and
Stinker.” When he had to pay out on a favorite he
usually got into the most inconvenient spot he
could find. Then he would start; “Come on, you
blankety spoilers of the poor. I’ll pay Double Cross
—may th’ die bogged in a water’ole with th’
crows pickin’ ’is eyes out! Wot’s
this? Twenty-five perishin’ quid? Look ’ere, y’
stony-’eart’ed , will yer take me bag or will
ver be a toff fit wasn’t ‘sport’ then] and fight
me for it?” Stepper’s was always a popular show
with the crowd, for he could go on indefinitely with-
out repeating himself. If you were a stranger it
needed a lot of nerve and self-possession to collect
from him, and if you had any peculiarity in feature,
dress or manner, the Lord help you !
“The Oldest Inhabitant" :
It has ijeen definitely settled that the first Sydney
Cup w-as run for on Hyde Park on Wednesday,
October 17, 1810, the winner being Captain Richie’s
Chase. The Cup was presented by “the ladies of
Sydney,” and waft valued at 50 guineas. As Cap-
tain Richie belonged to the 73rd Regiment, which
corps left for Ceylon in ISI4, it may be assumed
that the historic piece of plate remained in this
country only four years.
Albert Lloyd and “Chuck” Wiggins met
at Sydney Stadium on Saturday night. Albert fought
a game, though losing, battle throughout. The
tall, rangy Yank surpassed him in speed and skill,
and at one stage (towards the end of the 13tii
session) Australia’s champion looked like taking the
knock. Lloyd revived and fought rather better in
the three concluding rounds than he had done earlier
in the dispute; but the decision in the visitor’s favor
was by that time almost inevitable. Wiggins did a
lot of fouling, and with a referee of the Scott type
he would probably have paid the extreme penalty
for it.
* * * *
Ted Lewis, who was boxing in Australia
when the war began, left a few weeks later for
America and stayed there. William (“Bat”) Master-
son, of the New' York Telegraph, is disgusted with
him. Hearing that a promoter was “dickering for
a bout in Canada between Lewis and Jack Britton,
for the entertainment of the Prince of Wales,” Mr.
Masterson wrote as follows: —
“And what do you suppose the Prince of AVales
would do when he was told about the English slacker?
In all probability the Prince would set himself so
that he could expectorate quite copiously into Teddy’s
both eyes in case he ventured near enough. With
that sort of a prospect in view’, it isn’t at all likely
that a Montreal promoter would xarc to have Ted
Lewis officiating as one of the chief entertainers for
his Royal Highness when he arrived at Montreal?”
Maybe the London Hebrew was as fearful of his
eyes in peace as he was of his life in war. Anyhow,
the bout before the Prince of Wales never came
off.
* * * *
Another coming champion faded out when
Ted Perks, of Korbel (W.A.), met veteran Fritz
Holland. Holland, who sealed list. 41b. against his
opponent’s 12st., began to interfere with Perks’s
appearance from the gong, and he persisted to such
purpose that the Westralian’s towel was thrown in
at. the end of the third round. With Perks exter-
minated there isn’t a middle or heavy in the West
capable of extending the Yankee baldhead.
The Amateur Boxing Assoc, of Britain
is making a big effort to promote the sport in
schools other than the few which at present farm
the junior championships betw’een them. The con-
tests —-three rounds of two minutes for the older boys,
and two of 11, with a final of two, for the younger—-
are to be run in districts (North, South, Midlards,
London, Scotland and Wales) ; and winners (also
runners-up, if they care to) will be entitled to
have a shot at the more aristocratic Schools Cham-
pionships in January.
* * * *
East Sydney cleaned up the slate in the
final stage of the Dunn Challenge Shield club cham-
pionships on Saturday with 301 points, followed by
Uni. (25), Redfern (20), Botany (12), South Sydney
(81) and Western Suburbs and Police (six each).
Of nine events Easts won four, and filled places in
the others. W. W. Hunt (Redfern) brought the
220vds. record down to 22 2-ssec. A. W. Winter
(Botanv'i. in the hop, step and jump, cleared 47ft.
7in., which was 4in. better than Denis Lane’s Shield
record ; and I\. J. Naukler (Easts) threw the discus
104 ft. 41in., or 12ft. Blin. further than the pre-
vious best. In the other events, F. E. Rule (Easts)
took the 440vds. hurdles; the long’-striding J. W.
Cain (Easts) was first in the three-mile run; R. G.
Piguott (Easts) easily won the half-mile; Ernie
Austen (Redfern) left 60yds. of daylight between
himself and. the others in the three-mile walk; and
C. T. Ferguson (Police) toyed with the 161 b. hammer
as though it had been a diminutive “drunk.” The
high-jumping was the worst seen for many years, and
thick-set W. J. Potter alone cleared sft. 7in. (after
two attempts). In general the athletes showed need
of vigorous training if they are to be forward enough
for the Australasian championship meeting at Sydney
early next year.
H. E. Wilson at Wellington (M.L.)
recently conceded a fixed hurdle and 10 yards’
start in the regulation 120, and won in 15see. Which
knocks 3-10 sec. off G. P. Keddell’s Australasian
record put up at Christchurch in 1911.
* * * *
On Saturday 15,000 cycling enthusiasts
lined Svdney Cricket Ground, where the main draw
was the professional scratch races. The lengthy
Alf Grenda, now of America, formerly of Tasmania,
took the one-mile and five-miles, and was only a
wheel behind A. Mcßeath (N.S.W.) in the inter-
teams’ match. Grenda has vastly improved since he
left the Commonwealth. The form of the other over-
seas men is poor, with the exception of Willie
Spencer, who deflated F. Wells in a special match
or sideshow, and who took a 11-mile handicap from
scratch.
The Sydney Wheel Race (two miles) was the big
handicap of the carnival, and old-timer George
Holder (175yds.) won from C. L. Papworth (165vds. )
in a slick 4min. 5 l-ssec. Horder timed his final
burst well. Thirteen years ago he put up the Aus-
tralian half-mile unnaced record (55 l-ssec.), and
in 1914 made world’s-record figures for 10 miles
(21min. 50sec.).
Among the amateurs, N. S. Wales pedallers took
all the silver-plate. Dick Munro cleared out in the
five-mile scratch from Halpin -and Walker; and in
the three-miles Walker defeated Halpin.
# * * 4f
A feature of this year’s N.S.W. tennis
championships at Double Bay (Sydney) was the
effort in the singles of Jim Anderson (fresh from a
victory over Norman Brookes at Melbourne), who
defeated R. Neil by three sets to one (9 —7, 2—6,
7—5, 6—l). Anderson, who won the last Stare
singles title in 1914, rocked in terrific shots, and
his placing was excellent. Brookes has chosen him
for the Davis Cup matches on January 16, 17 and
19, with R. V. Thomas (S.A.) and, of course,
Patterson. The doubles was a boil-over for M. H.
Marsh and M. Plomley, who wiped out Jim and
Dick Anderson by three sets to one (6 —2, 4 —6,
9—7, 6—4).
Some old heads who saw Norman Brookes
play against young Anderson and Patterson in Mel-
bourne begin to doubt Norman’s ability to hold
up Australia’s end in the Davis Cup. But though
he has entered the forties, and though his prestige
suffered in his two big defeats by Gerald Patterson,
he is incomparable in some features of the game,
and when his confidence is restored by steady prac-
tice, he will prove the biggest boulder in the way
of England’s rush for victory. Patterson will be his
partner, of course, but, even though Patterson did
beat Brookes, in the doubles the Englishmen will
endeavor to divert the ball in Pat’s direction.
Patterson’s backhand is not up to. Davis Cup standard,
and as he only gets the service once in every four
games, he isn’t the man in doubles that he is in
singles. In the singles he should be immense, even
though his impulsiveness will lose him points.
R. LYCETT,
Tic. tennis
player.
“Je a n S.” :
The popular asso-
ciation of tennis
with er-gentlemanly
feeling has been
rudely shaken l y
the arrest of the
prominent doubles
player R. Lycett on a charge of leaving
his two children without means of support.
It may prove only a technical offence, if an offence
at all, but it has given tradition a nasty shaking.
Still, when they come to think of it, the genteel
young ladies of the game always did think something
dreadful would happen to Lycett. Why, in the finals
for the mixed doubles, before the Very Best people
in Melbourne, the other day the horrid creature
pranced about in his socks!
* * * *
“D. J.”: What the London cable-man
naively termed “a remarkable outrage” happened in
County Clare, Ireland, last week. “Twenty Sinn
Feiners” opened fire from behind a wall “with
sporting guns” on two of Lord Inchiquin’s relations—
one of them a lady—and three of his friends. The
unsuspecting victims were pursuing woodcock at
the time. Not one of them was killed, or even
dropped ; and Lady Beatrice O’Brien, though three
times hit “in the head and neck,” was able to
fight her way to a motor-car. Now, a shot-gun
makes an appalling wound, so much so that it is
barred in civilised warfare, like dum-dum bullets.
Furthermore, "iven anything like a sitting shot
(such as the Inchiquin party would have presented
for at least the preliminary fusillade), it is prac-
tically impossible to miss with a sporting gun.
That is why a pheasant or partridge is said to have
been “murdered” when shot running—much less
standing—by some Cockney novice. There is some-
thing riiissing from the cable-story. The probabili-
ties are that the film star who was representing Lady
Beatrice accidentally let her gun off (she would, of
course, have been carrying it upside down) as the
cinema operator was getting his instrument into
position, and that one of the “property” de Valeraitc-
(from London Strand) got a, pellet or two by way
of a ricochet off the road. The proper caption
for the item would be the good old* “Didn’t know
it was loaded.”
* * * *
Sixty-two started in Queensland A.S.A.
three-mile swim in the Bremer River. Forty-two
finished, long-marker H. Lough winning in 87min.
18sec. F. W. Snringfield (scratch) did the distance
in 66min. 35sec.—a record for the race.
• * • *
Walter Lind rum, playing against brother
Fred at Melbourne the other day, made a break of
689, nearly all at the spot-end, after having run up
650 the previous day, also at the top of the table.
Both these constitute Australian records, for
although larger breaks have been made by both
brothers they were secured with the red hazard
exclusively, whereas in the breaks under notice the
hazards were not used. During his last Australian
tour John Roberts twice exceeded 600 at all-round
billiards, but did not reach Lindrum’s score.
* * * *
When somebody told Beckett that Car-
pentier had brought a professional cook across the
Channel with him, the bulky Britisher replied, “My
old mother can do my bit of cooking!” which was
equivalent to stating that, in the opinion of Beckett,
the difference between one sort of cook and another
didn’t matter. How like a British boxing champion,
or any other athlete of the bulldog breed!
* * * *
Richard Garland, who died lately at
Brighton (Vic.), was one of the original directors
of the Australian Dunlop Co. Born in Dublin, he
became associated with Dunlops in England, was sent
to America, and after managing the Canadian
business for a while, came on to Australia and
helped to float the Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co.
here. He leaves four sons and a daughter—three
of his sons enlisted. He was one of the biggest
punters in the Commonwealth. He often bet in
thousands, and it was not uncommon for him -to
have £5OOO going in a single race. Though he
made some big hauls at times, picking winners
must have proved an expensive hobby in the long run.
Last Friday the North Sydney High
School boy Rems, at the Combined 'Schools swim-
ming carnival in the Domain Baths, won the 100,
the 220 and the quarter. The next day he came
out in the Spit Club’s 450yds. event, and dead-
heated with Pfaflin in the excellent time of 6min.
31 2-ssec.
* * * *
A Freeling (S.A.) pigeon has done a bit
of quick homing work. It was sold to a Melbourne
fancier, and put in six weeks at its new villa before
escaping. In 36 hours it was back at the old loft.
Distance —by pigeon route —about 500 miles.
HORSES BARRED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Young gent, wants board in a house where the
ohief topic is not horses.” —S. M. Herald ad.
Oh, is there ne’er a place
In all the teeming city .
Where one may, tor a space,
Converse in manner witty
And serious and refined
Of murders and divorces,
And banish from the mind
Awhile the blessed horses?
On Shakspeare and the Play,
And Hughes and politics, too,
I like to have my say ;
And profiteering tricks, too.
The latest strike, the drought
Ave subjects for discourses —-
Oh, to hear less about
The everlasting horses!
Of “odds” and “times” and “books”
And “certs” and “stable-fancies”
I’m sick, and racing “crooks”
Provide such stale romances.
Those who’d display their in-
Telleetual resources
Regard it as a sin
To always talk of horses!
So “bed and board” I seek
(Not “bed and bored,” pray mark you)
Where people sometimes speak
On subjects that don’t nark you.
Where “tips” I’ll never get;
Where n» “sport” ever forces
Young gents like me to bet,
And jaw all day of horses!
VICTOKIA.
EARDLEY TURNER.


LEARN TO BOX AND THEN YOU’LL WIN.
You may have all the qualifications,
but strength, determination and pluck
without skill will not avail you
against a Scientific Boxer.
The Scientific Boxer is cool, calm and
collected. He is constantly drawing
his opponent into position; puts ihe
weight of his body behind his blows ;
plants his punches where they art-
most felt; bewilders and confuses his
opponent by evading and countering
his attempts to “land.”
The Scientific Boxer is master of his
movements. His muscles are lithe and
elastic. He can hit from any position
without “telegraphing” the blows.
You would surely like to be a Scien-
tific Boxer —and now is your opportunity to learn.
I TEACH BOXING BY POST
The instruction is practical, simple and easily- under-
stood. It thoroughly explains and illustrates every
serviceable movement in Scientific Boxing.
You reap the benefit of my many years’ experience
and keen observation of the best moves of the
world's best boxers.
“Snowy Baker K. 0.” Boxing Gloves, in two grades,
15/6 and 21/- per set of four gloves. Post Free.
Every set personally selected and guaranteed.
Write for my FBEIi BOOKLET, “Scientific Boxing in the Home.”
Send three penny stamps for postage.
R£G. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
“The All-round Champion Athlete of Australia,”
168 Muiucipil Buildings, Oxford St. (Cor. Crown St.), Sydney.
as*
WHEN TOURING
You don’t need a map to
tind out where to get
“SHELL”
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE
V*
Shell
behzihe
Shave in Comfort.
e©
e©
C©
If you could shave your-
self in three minutes as
well as the Barber does,
wouldn't you rather
always do so than waste
valuable time at a bar-
ber’s shop ?
Then try a PERFORATED HONE.
Jt puts Easy Shaving within
reach of evey man. Requires no
skill or experience to use. Give
six strokes or a hundred —you
can’t hurt your razor, for the
perforations PREVENT WIRE-
EDGE and automatically produce
a perfect, keen shaving edge.
TRY ONE. If it doesn’t make your
razor shave to your satisfaction return
it to us within 30 days and get your
money back.
Sold by all leading HARDWARE
MERCHANTS at 4/6, or POST
FREE 5/- PROM
The Perforated Hone Co.,
Dept. 11—123 Sussex Street, Sydney.
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOB
MINING, MILLING, etc.
INCLUDING
STEAH ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL BE POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO
THE SECRETARY
Box 229 G.P.0.,
MELBOURNE.
THE GENERAL MANAGER,
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
THE SECRETARY
Box 220 Q.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
V
Screens and Perforated Plates
For Stone-Crushing Plants, Coal Mines, etc.
Any size hole up Stone Breakers, Crushing Roils,
to in
im. plate. Portable Road Plants, Elevators.
MANUFACTURED BY—
JAQUES BROS. Pty. Ltd.,
Coppin Street, Richmond, MELBOURNE, VIC.
Send for our Illustrated Catalog No. 20.
Magnesia
for Indigestion.
/
m
ft
mvmm
* f mr ®sSo®e .\~.''
w‘ # r ■*'-':«> W
A,
I • #*"'«' ,f ' ******
s igsgiiiitll S 8 »•
®2Bmz , i
I
*S
»
[
v . . “ v '' »;
, *** % ’* u \!l *,
MB
•i
, |p
n v
■V3
HP
A Source of Comfort
in Summer.
In their perfect yet easy fit (the result of absolutely correct cutting),
their super-excellent finish, down to the smallest detail —the essentially
suitable materials provided—the tasteful distinction of the designs,
“Veribest” Shirts will meet your every requirement in comfort and style
during the hot season.
We show here the “Lounge” Style,
OXFORDS, ZEPHYRS, in Neat
with Soft Fronts and Gauntlet
Wristband
in CAMBRICS,
Stripe Effects,
Cuffs, or with
10/6
Post Free
I 1Q PER CENT, DISCOUNT TO RETURNED MEW. |
Lincoln Stuart & Co. Pty. Ltd,
“Specialists in Outfitting by Mail,”
244=54 Flinders Street—Melbourne,,
m


tARMXKS
lir
C_2
cyfC^y
(Put'-z'-zaye.
Purest
BATH SOAP
StfiPe-n-hczl of,ihaOoilai
pURE Soap is of primary importance in the
A toilet, for on it depend the clearness and
freshness of the complexion. It is essential
to perlect skip health. Farmer’s Special Bath
Soap, delicately perfumed with clover or
lilac, cannot irritate even the most tender
skin. It soothes and refreshes as well a 3
cleanses. Mi.led in Australia exclusively
for Farmer’s. Price, per cake .. .. l/«
Eox of six cakes (illustrated) .. ..6/.
FARMER'S.
C 3
I
n 3
To be Dressed
Really Well
does not call for the most
bizarre effects —the most
lavish display. Rather, it
means to be gowned so
that the coloring, the line,
the whole effect is in per-
fect harmony with the
personality and form of
the individual.
Shave’s create clothes along
those lines —and make per-
fectly-fitting gowns without
fittings.
SHAVE,
Ladies’ Tailors,
Dressmakers,
Centreway, Melbourne.
eltonian
HIGH-CLASS
SPECIALTIES
df
Creams
?r d
Pastes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL RINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
A (rents —
WARREN & STRANC LTD.
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne.
E. DROWN (B> SONS LONDON
AGENCIES • ALE - OVER • THE • WORLD
VISITORS.—Don’t miss one of the city’s greatest attractions—the “PAVILION,” Sydney’s Restaurant de luxe, Circular Quay.
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warners
Rust Proof
Corsets
According to lobby chatter and a declara-
tion by Martin Hannah in Parliament, some
people were plotting to carry out a much
more sensational tarring and feathering feat
than that which occurred at Ararat. If any-
thing of the kind had bet n attempted re-
garding the personage whose name is only
whispered, it is difficult to calculate what
the consequences might have been. The
time has been considered opportune by one
owning the ancient name of Cohen to write
to the papers thanking God that he is only
a Jew if manifestations he has noted recently
are Christian.
Many stories about Senator Pearce have
blown over from Britain, all of them dealing
with the difference between London’s esti-
mate of Pearce and that self-conscious poli-
tician's estimate of himself. The best story,
perhaps, tells of his astonishment when a
small account for advertising was received
at Australia House. An announcement of
the “engagement” of Miss Pearce had been
forwarded to the paper under the impression
perhaps that it was a matter of European
importance. At the end of the month there
came along a little bill for the space occu-
pied by the young lady’s engagement notice.
Pearce reeled in his chair when he read it.
He didn’t know the English papers’ habit of
demanding payment for printing matters of
no public interest or importance.
The Exhibition has had a final clearing up,
and all the ’flu-fighting hospital gear has
been carefully sorted, labelled and packed
away ready for immediate use in case the
plague comes back. Hospital authorities
are determined not to be caught napping
again.
Dame M-elba -is as busy as a politician
on the eve of an election. She has been
touring the big English towns with a compact
concert co. and doing “capacity business.”
With the Diva is Tom Burke, the Lanca-
shire tenor, who carols like a young Caruso.
If another Melba Opera Co. is accomplished
Burke has promised to be a member. Una
Bourne, the Victorian pianiste, is considered
by Nellie to be a greatly-improved artist,
and young Frank St. Leger’s accompaniments
still please her.
The Davis Cup team of three from Eng-
land arrived in Melbourne on Saturday
morning by the Wahehe. Colonel Kings-
cote is a short, stocky player with a Charlie
Chaplin mo. He has brought his pretty
young wife. A. E. Beamish, who was in
France for some years, is one of the team.
Captain Arthur Lowe, a dark edition of
brother “Pussy” Lowe, has seen service in
France, Italy and Salonika. Sydney is
waiting to make a fuss round them all.
Major Parke, who got a bullet through
the wrist at Gallipoli whilst serving with
the Essex Regiment, is, missing from the
group. The visitors were welcomed by Nor-
man Brookes and his wife, Shand (the tennis
scribe), President Theyre Weigall, Cam
Hammond, Secretary Malco’m. O’Hara
Wood, Tommy Cochran, Alf Dunlop and
other tennis enthusiasts.
An Australian flying-boy’s note from
N’York:—•
Our good Murikan friends, though born equal, love
to indicate that they grow different. A large silver
chevron denotes service in the U.S.A., while there
is a gold one for each six months’ service overseas.
(Incidentally the real doughboy is feeling very sore
because he avers that those who stayed at home get
the most pampering.) Besides the chevrons, gold
and silver, there are Victory ribbons; and for
attachment to the ribbon there is a bronze star for
each engagement and a silver star for each “citation”
(mention in despatches). I’ve just seen a friend
who, having one Victory ribbon crowded out with
stars of bronze and silver, has put up a second as a
background for the rest of his fireworks show.
The Leslie Stuarts’ pair of schoolgirl
daughters have had a tennis tournament at
their home court at Logan House, Toorak.
Eight girls and eight boys have been play-
ing, with an occasional dinner or luncheon
together in the real grown-up way. Mother,
as umpire, has been grilling patiently in the
sun under a green umbrella, giving up jolly
parties of her own to play the good parent.
Was somebody in a merry mood when
Donald Macltinnon’s big house in South
Yarra was named? The label on the place
alongside the Botanical Gardens is Ooralia.
Looks as if some condenser had brought it
down to that from “ ’Ooray, Australia!”
Kitchener’s ghost may have prowled round
Mordialloc last week when the new bridge
was opened for traffic with much local fuss.
Kitchener was insistent about a new bridge
on military grounds. The old one was a
shaky, narrow concern over an arm of the
sea, and made a weak link in the defence
chain, as it lay in the military road around
the bay. The bridge was begun while the
big soldier was in Australia, and is only
now finished. For years it has been a mass
of timber flaunting “Keep-off” placards by
day and dim lamps by night. During the
work aboriginal skeletons were found,
also several weapons that interested the
scientists. The old creek arm of the sea
was called by the natives Mordi-Yalloc
(“Muddy-water”). Now the place is just
“Maudie” to Sunday trippers.
Interesting to note the growing popularity
of the motor among the religious heads in
Melbourne. Dr. Daniel Mannix started the
fashion by scooting off to Mass in a swift
little car with his biretta waving like a
flame in the wind. Now the spiritual guide
of the Greek community honks about in a
smart single-seater looking for stray souls
in the fruit and oyster dagories. Archgaiters
Clarke isn’t often seen hurrying around with
the help of petrol. Probably motoring would
enhance the tendency to flesh wnich is
always threatening to overwhelm his spirit.
So he does much walking, and when in the
city almost invariably toddles home on his
stout-gaitered legs.
Justice Schutt broke away to San Fran-
cisco the other day on private business con-
nected with some land he holds in California,
lie will be back in time to tackle work after
the long vacation.
The Church of England Grammar Eleven
have gone over to Sydney to play public
schools "there. A roaring pack of boys fare-
welled the champions up Collins-street and
at the train, and a squad of masters and
proud fathers went as bodyguard.
Justice Mann has ruled that “Wait a
jiff!” used by Joan Lazarus in the Supreme
Court at Ballarat is not an expression that
ought to be used at the Bar table. Joan
blushed, which made her look nicer, and
apologised. If she had absent-mindedly said
“ ’Arf a mo’ ” the roof would probably have
fallen.
Mrs. John Beresford (Nan Chisholm be-
fore she married) is off to Colombo to meet
her returning soldier husband.
P. W. Tewkesbury has offered the hospi-
tality of the Oriental to Ross Smith, who
has wired an acceptance.
Ilardiman, late manager of the Grand
Hotel, has gone to Adelaide to take charge
of a new palace of flats just opposite the
railway station. Chairman of directors
Sternberg and several constant visitors to
the Grand .(Ilennessy was one of them)
gave the departing manager a send-off and
a fat wallet of notes.
The accompanying picture presents Lallie
Jones, Bendigo’s only lady barrister and
solicitor. Lallie was
the third girl in
Victoria to take the
Law into her own
hands and interpret
it with subtle femi-
nine wisdom. She
served her term as
articled- clerk to her
dad, and was after-
wards admitted to
the Bar on the mo-
tion of the lawyer
who, late r, wa s
C eneral McCay.
She now specialises
in mining law, and
won her first case in
the Bendigo Ward-
en’s Court. During
the war she Red
Crossed vigorously, and lately played a big
part in fitting up a convalescent home for
Diggers in Bendigo. Lallie, by the way, is not
the only sparkle in the House of Jones.
Sister Marion leaves for Europe shortly on
a travelling music scholarship.
The future holds the possibility of a
Chinese cruiser coming this way, with “a
snecial Commissioner to the South Sea
Islands” as the biggest gun aboard. At
any rate, there is talk in Pekin of such a
mission “to visit Chinese merchants.” But
whaffor '!
Matron Catherine Donaldson, of the Wide
Bay Hospital (Q.)» has put anaesthetics away
for a year, and is oft' by the Ormonde, carry-
ing good wishes in diamonds and pearls
and gold-mounted dressing-bags and cheques
and illuminated addresses and all sorts of
things.
S. C. Lazarus, who has just turned 21.
has pulled off the Vic. Rhodes scholarship
for 1919, and will enter Oxford in October.
He began by winning a Government scholar-
ship, and kept on doing that sort of thing
until he enlisted. To the relief of a widowed
mother, the Armistice came just when he was
ready to g'o over the top. Mother lives at
St. Ivilda.
Adelaide looks around :—■
It may interest hostesses to know that Ross and
Keith Smith are dancers of note, or rather were
prior to 1914. The girls who can produce pro-
grammes proving a dancing acquaintance with the
heroes are being regarded enviously.
Dr. D. M. Steele (just fledged) has signalised his
pass by announcing his engagement to popular
Winnie Ringwood. The young medico is one of
our top-notch cricketers, too.
Among those who returned by the Orvieto this
week was Lieut. Abe Shannon, beautifully turned
out and all bright and shiny. Well over the
military age, he put all his energies into war-work,
and has been on the Graves Commission. A friend
of the late King Edward, he knows the sort cf
people who go stag-hunting. Also arrived
J. H. Vaughan (late Attorney-General) and
his wife. He served a period in France and gained
a commission about the time of the Armistice, since
when he has been engaged on the army educational
scheme and repatriation work. He predicts an
immigration boom.
The Children’s Patriotic Fund has held its last
committee meeting, and the secretary, Adelaide
Miethke, got some well-deserved praise. The child-
ren have contributed over £150,000 to patriotic
funds since the war started, besides sending piles of
comforts. The youngsters earned most of their con-
tributions, as begging was sternly discouraged.
St. Peter’s old collegians talk of forming a club.
There are 2000 members in their association.
Veteran Edwin Smith, philanthropist and patron
of sports, is seriously ill at his home at Marryat-
ville. His harassed family has to issue daily bul-
letins in the papers to get a rest from the telephone.
Passed out this week at an advanced age, Mrs.
Mary L. Wigley, one of the oldest residents of
Glenelg. Noted in her youth for her beauty, which
she passed on to her daughters, she was until the
last a striking figure. She possessed a witty tongue
as well as a marvellous memory. A daughter of
the late Col. Creagh, she married W. R, Wigley,
S.M., who died about 30 years ago.
Edith Howes, a Maorihmd writer of fairy talcs
and nature studies, has come to live in S. Aus.
Her brother is a naturalist, and with him Miss
Howes has bored into biology and entomology. She
has had a very successful run with “The Sun’s
Babies,” “Fairy Rings” and “Wonder-wings”; and
her last is “The Cradle Ship.” She intends spend-
ing the summer at Victor Harbor, to study what the
tide, brings in and get material for her next book.
South Australia’s first woman councillor is Mrs.
B. Benny, wife of the solicitor who is at the moment
the No. 1 Nationalist candidate for the Senate. 1
She is the daughter of Peter Anderson, of Mitcham,
and the granddaughter of another Peter Anderson who
gave the suburb of Burnside its name. She will
take her seat in the suburban Brighton council at
its next meeting.
The John Forrest widow and niece Muriel
North, who went to Ceylon a few months
hack, have been marooned in the hot little
island, all ships being full. However,
Muriel is not worrying, as she has just got
engaged to an Indian Army captain.
Malta Dempster has sent word from Lon-
don that she is booked for a wedding witn
Warren Trevor, an Englishman who visited
Australia some years ago. Melbourne
friends are delighted at the news. The bride-
elect had been a very sad little person indeed
since the loss of her two last surviving
sisters, Mrs. Wesley Hall and Mrs. Jackson.
Hilda, daughter of George Farmer, of
Ballarat, is going to throw in her lot with
Gordon W . Hope, son of Mrs. Dimant and
the late E. T. Hope, of Perth. Gordon is
one of the big clan of Hopes who are s 'ut-
tered over Australia from Bananaland to
Westralia. Hilda has a voice.
The widow Butters has just slipped quietly
into a second matrimonial venture. The
new husband is Donald MacKenzie, just
returned from strenuous work with the
A.I.F. The large, fair bride was the widow
of the suave Butters who was Mayor of
Melbourne.
Young Reg MacGillicuddy. who is a
doctor, like his musical dad, has committed
matrimony in company with Goodie Reeve,
daughter of Ada and her former husband,
comedian Bert Gilbert. The deed was done
at St. Pat’s, the bride giving her name as
Lilian Ilazlewood. If there were many
more stage people in the world there would
not be enough names to go round.
Another well-dressed wedding of the
month will be that of Cecily Catterall to her.
A.D.C. Duncan.
Mrs. L. Mcßean, who with a cloud of
relatives voyaged to Honolulu to hand her
only daughter to Assistant-Paymaster Eger-
ton, arrived back last week with the bride
and bridegroom. The two were made one
by Honolulu’s bishop at the cathedral. The
bride wore satin with silver embroideries and
ostrich feathers, topped by Mrs. Norton
Grim wade s real lace wedding veil. Cousins
Emily Falkiner and Ida Knight brides-
inaided. Apparently the bridegroom has
1 are welled the R.N.. and will be grafted on
the Australian branch of the service.
The impending publication of Max Mel-
drum’s book is announced by Melville and
Mullen, and the news that the volume will
be obtainable for ten-and-six has dispelled
a lot of fears. People were dreading an-
other demand for a guinea, but in this case
the guinea is reserved for an Edition de luxe
of 150 copies, with the artist’s signature
attached. The book is going to be talked
about as much for the artist's views of art
as for its 50-odd plates of characteristic
Meldrum pictures. Meldrum’s theory is that
“all human beings are potential artists."
whilst all adherents of the transcendental
school are in the nature of highly superior
pretenders. After listening to the iamm
of a dozen art scholars, most lookers-on will
think, with Meldrum, that “individuality in
art spells decadence.” It certainly spells
Airs, as a rule.
Miss Lesclikau, who has a studio in Temple
Court, is turning the festive season to busi-
ness account with an exhibition of water-
color drawings and art leatherwork, “suit-
able for Christmas and New Year gifts."
The dark-eyed little lady is an artist even
in the philistine sense of the word. A visi-
tor who doesn’t bite at a picture may he
tempted with a handbag.
In the years that the moth has eaten, Dr.
Clarence Godfrey assisted the brilliant Dr.
Shields, and subsequently became a Govern-
ment medical officer. Already he had special-
ised in mental and inebriacy cases, and so.
naturally, was pre-
sently passed on to
the hospital at
Royal Park. After
that he was selected
by the Government
to inaugurate and
conduct the medical
treatment of ineb-
riates at Lara.
During the war lie
was in charge of the
military mental hos-
pital at Royal Park,
and gave a hand to
No. 5 Base Hospi-
tal as specialist in
the psychic treat-
ment of shell-shock,
lie has 150 shock
cures to his credit:
the patients, all nervous wrecks, have been
able to take up civilian life again. Godfrey’s
success has been so great in this direction
that he has been appointed to carry on the
good work. lie is an Australian —son of
that Godfrey who was for years in the
Upper House and had three doctor sons.
Mrs. Godfrey is a daughter of the late
Graham Berry.
Colin Colahan, whose black-and-white is
well known to Bulletin subscribers arid
borrowers, has had to lay aside the pen for
a while and obey the orders of his medico
brother. The young man was at work in
Max Meldrum’s studio when he collapsed,
and the verdict was that he needed a rest.
The faithful Colahan has served Max Mel-
drum by editing the book about the master’s
Art.
The eldest Bowes Kelly daughter, Violet,
hopes to pack her kit shortly and study art
in Europe. Miss Violet is a pupil of Chris-
tine Asquith Baker. Heather Keep and
Thelma Forster are fellow-pupils. The studio
is frequently the scene of gay little tea-
parties. to which no one who admits to being
a Philistine is admitted.
A Digger writes about Horace Stevens,
who went away with the A.M.C. and,
remaining in England, at once jumped right
to the top in oratorio work :
Stevens’s first public performance in London was
given at the Trocadero. One night he and a few
friends were dining there, when suddenly Horace
announced that he wanted to' sing. He persuaded the
orchestra to accompany him in “The Bandolier,” and
when he’d finished the enthusiasm was immense. Sir
Henry Wood, who was present, promptly expressed
the opinion that there Was no other baritone voice
in England of equal beauty; and the rest of the
way was made easy for the singer.
Peggy Center, the Honolulu girl who,
under Melba’s guidance, made such progress
at Fritz Hart’s Conservatorium, has sent
her Melbourne pals news of her marriage
to J. Young, a dollared American who has
seen active service. Peggy was on the way
to join Melba in London when her Senti-
mental Bloke persuaded her to go to the
altai\
The English railway- strike gave Una
Bourne a chance, and the little, fair-haired
pianiste made the most of it. Melba had
selected Busoni for a tour of the provinces.
The strike upset the arrangement, and Nellie
took Una as substitute. She was so
charmed with her work that she kept the
girl with her all the tour.
This (Thursday) is the night on which an
interesting Australian musical and literary
programme is to be given by a little band
of enthusiasts at the lower Guild Hall. A
pianoforte cycle, “The Australian,” com-
posed by Henry Tate, with musical settings
of some of Louis Esson’s verses by Fritz
Hart, will be introduced by the People’s
Conservatorium Orchestra, and a one-act
play by Vance Palmer, dealing with Outback
life in Bananaland, will be performed.


WHITE
BLACK
6 €
9 9
and
t
.1
EH
1
li
I, V \
' 1 I
\ '
\
\ I
m
m
mfmM.
■ ’ -
L
gg&J
mm
m
■
-
mm
mmm
. p i
; • ■
A
i
,: -
s»
• ’ " \ '
MM
I
IS - i
m
wwii
:
V*fg , 1
MB
;
: V
i
• -
Ml
~ * :
-
■ ■ • rr¥£
: - '■ ■ : p ■
■•■ - * 1
.: : :
:v :
WW<,i
THE BLACK WATCH.”
WHISKY
Obtainable in
BOTTLES
HALF-BOTTLES
FLASKS
HALF-FLASKS
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO. LTD ,


Under
Royal
Warrant
n
To H.M.
GeorgeV
CHAMPAGNE
IM
CHAMPAGNE
iiarlcsl leidsicoC-
Heims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
&
I^CKmiSH
m
■ itArm roo* “
n)RPAT£NT.OLfICEKmBQX
Calf
M
Melboaroe
Bid
you?
|§H|
IT'S NO TROUBLE NOW IF BOBBY TEARS HIS
CLOTHES. I SIMPLY MEND THEM WITH
f^€nd-&-T€^r
THAT WONDERFUL NEW MATERIAL WHICH
MENDS WITHOUT STITCHES. IT S SO NEAT,
SO EFFECTIVE AND SO SIMPLE TO USE. I DO
HIS REPAIRS IN A QUARTER, THE TIME
Sample Outfit post free on
receipt of 1/4.
Sole Wholesale Distributors for New South
Wales and Queensland —
Bennett S Barkeli Ltd.
Meagher Street, SYDNEY.
Va
SHUK OMMES
are really
economical
because of the
guarantee which goes with
them —a guarantee which
ensures for you longer wear
and the greatest measure
of satisfactory service.
Ask your draper
for VANITY FAIR
SILK GLOVES—
the gloves sold with
a guarantee.
Sold everywhere.
V.F. 4
///
Teas served at the “PAVILION,” Circular Quay, Sydney, are patronised by the best people. Orchestral performances daily.
The Dainty Afternoon
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
It really was the Christmas bells ringing,
and not the little bronze bell tied close
under the flower on the long stem. No
mere bells wrought of man could have pealed
such a golden chime as into the Town Hall
the little ones of Sydney trotted, holding
high their bit of Australian Bush, and with
childish solemnity made their way to the
ring of baby-bear chairs that surrounded
their particular tree. Every Christmas
tree is the home of a fairy so radiant that
one can light up the largest and most dismal
home; so you can imagine what the Town
Hall was like with nine Christmas trees,
with their magic fruit thick upon them, and
each with its fairy blowing roseleaf kisses
to the cheeks of the babies of the City’s
kindergartens. How the dimples and sparkles
came out with the first merry clapping of
hands to the tripping 'refrain of “Hurray
for Farver Crissimus!”
The space set apart for each kindergarten
was bounded by grown-up chairs, on which
sat mum and dad with the brand-new baby
and brother and sister. Within that circle
of love were the baby tables set with fruit
and sweets and crackers and cakes with
candles all about them; some even had glass
jugs pink with raspberry vinegar! Inside
the tables was the ring of tiny chairs, and
inside that again a Christmas tree laden
with dolls and carts and prams and bats
and watering-pots. Little Citizens, Golden
Fleecers ; toddlers from. Miller’s Point, New-
town, Woolloomooloo, Surry Hills, Montes-
sori, Wentworth and Moore Park —each
school sitting about its own tree and all
behaving like kings and queens! Teacher led
the revels. There was much dancing in a
ring, and songs with clapping of hands that
somehow always slipped back to the old
favorite, “Hurray for Farver Crissimus,”
that is best of all, for you can dance to the
tune.
Around the Woolloomooloo tree six embryo
Pompadours and Du Barris danced a minuet.
The Litttle Citizen in grey bent forward until
her round, black head nearly touched the
floor; she was peering under the lowest
branch of the tree at the family baby across
the circle, wiggling her fingers at him and
twisting her pliable little nose into all
shapes. AVhen the singing started Little Grey
Girl sang louder than anybody else; and as
for clapping her hands and dancing—well,
if this wasn’t the merriest affair in the
world it would be no fault of hers. She
radiated joyousness; she onenly adored the
belle of the party, who wore a swagger frock
of palest blue crinkled paper tied with a
huge butterfly bow sash. Her little heart
was bursting with happiness; but it was
when her eyes suddenly widened, and her
finger slipped shyly to her parted lips, that
everyone knew she had truly and really
caught sight of the fairy in the tree.
Then it was time for the present-giving.
First of all, calendar and pincushion and
scent-sachet worked by baby fingers found
their way to mother. Then the dolls and
the carts and the prams found their way to
the youngsters. And only one gift was un-
welcome, and that was the South Sea
Islander that fell to the lot of a Very Little
one. She put her hands behind her back
and shook her head decidedly; and, seeing
her, a Big one of maybe five and a half
handed over the pink and white dollie that
had come to her, only waiting to give it one
long parting hug. After that came supper,
with little chairs drawn up to little tables,
much pulling of crackers and fitting of paper
caps and crowns on to baby heads; and a
beautiful unconsciousness on the diners’ part
of the grown-ups who filled the galleries and
all the vacant spaces on the floor below,
hoping to catch the gleam of the Christmas
Fairy’s wing.
To us by way of China and Japan comes
the Hon. Theodore Burton, and no Ameri-
can statesman who has visited this country
has stood higher up in the front rank. Till
last July he was in public life; then he
withdrew from the" Senate owing to the
gi’owing feeling that the League of Nations
was being supported by financiers and
bankers for selfish reasons—and Mr. Bur-
ton had at one time been president of a
Wall-street bank. Mr. Burton takes pride
in the fact that it was lie who first formu-
lated the American idea of the League of
Nations, and that has been duly credited
to him by President Wilson. For many
years President of the P.eace Society, and
a member of the inter-Parliamentary Union,
he has been present at various impressive
meetings at the Hague and Geneva. But the
inter-Parliamentary Convention at London
in 1906 lives most clearly in his memory;
for it was there he saw the members of
the Russian Duma which had just been dis-
solved by the Czar leave the Convention
Room to the cries of “Eire la Duma!” —
they left because as members of a no-longer
existent Parliament they could not take part
in the proceedings. He speaks of Japan,
and of its Premier (who said to him, “My
platform is a blank sheet of paper”), and
of Ivojiro Matsukata, head of one of the
largest shipping companies of Japan, who
wrote many pamphlets on the attitude of
employee to employer, and showed how the
old feudal', spirit of protection of the lord
over the servant and of loyal affection of
servant to lord still flourished, and then had
all his opinions dashed to pieces by great
and violent waterside strikes. To such an
extent was he disillusioned that he wished
to retire from his position. Kojiro’s father
is sometimes called the Bismarck of Japan
—a wonderful old man who found when he
had added up all his offspring that it num-
bered 29. Each son he sent to a different
country to be educated: one went to Bel-
gium, one to America, one to England, and
so on, that he might have a living book of
reference of the politics of the world at his
breakfast table. Incidentally, talking of the
social condition of his own country, Mr.
Burton denies having met the eighteen-dol-
lar-a-week apprentice that the papers and
the casual caller from the States so con-
stantly tell us about.
The gradual disappearance of Mary Ann
is having an effect on Art. The people who
used to keep up big homes’ have huddled
away into villas and flats where there is
little wall-space for pictures. So the painter
has had to come down to a canvas rather
smaller than the mainsail of a yacht. Nor-
man Carter has just finished a fascinating
portrait of the wife of a Sydney doctor in
the new manner. It isn’t exactly a minia-
ture ; but with a little squeezing the owner
can put it into his top-coat pocket when
next he moves. Still the graceful matron
doesn’t look cramped, though the artist has
painted her from raven locks to patent-
leather shoetips.
The home-coming of General Ryrie was
saddened by the news of Major Harold
Ryrie’s death in a military hospital last
week. Harold and Bruce Ryrie jumped into
khaki the minute war was declared, almost,
and went away under their uncle as Light
Horse subalterns. Both were on Gallipoli
till the Evacuation. And, later, they went
to Palestine. Harold was badly wounded
in the head in 1918, and he never properly
recovered. The eldest brother, Edwin, was
kept in Australia training reinforcements till,
in despair, he resigned his A.I.F. Com-
mission, went to London and joined the
R.F.A. The family is military all through.
The original Ryrie, of Michelago, was an
English quartermaster-general in the days
of the Rum Corps or earlier.
This is a May Moore photo of Margery
Innes-Noad, who to many of the boys meant
the whole Anzac Entertainment Committee.
Four and a half years ago the Sydney girl
went off to see what she could do, and it
was the day after Gallipoli that her boat
reached Suez to the
accompaniment o f
the cannonade that
for all time will
echo in Australian
history. At Malta
she saw her first hos-
pital ship. Then to
London, where first
of all it was hospital
work, and afterwards
the Entertainment
Committee. It was
she who thought of
the Anzac Buffet,
and she had a good
deal to do with the
pageant that netted
nearly £5OO for that
little bit of Austra-
lia-on-Thames. She
chuckles over tea at Ciro’s, the old night-club
pushed by stress of war into a tea-drinking
establishment for khaki. It was here the
Peerage helped to win the war in white kid
gloves and muslin frocks. The dear things
handed out the cakes and the tea; then
motors called for them and they went off
to rest, while the charladies they provided
washed up and were not photographed for
the overseas editions.
If it hadn’t been for the choir-boys being
seven minutes late in lifting up their voices,
Ruth Lumsdaine’s passage up the aisle of
St. James’s to link up with Harry Whiting
would have gone with all the eclat of an
operatic star’s carefully-managed stage en-
trance. Even the folds of the white satin
bridal frock conveyed the impression of being
carefully rehearsed in their parts. Then, of
course, there was the little flurry of rain that
fell, indiscriminately, upon the bride’s soft
lace veil and mother’s grey georgette as they
made their way into the church. Otherwise
all was honey-sweetness. Banjo Paterson
led the bride to the altar, and sister Rosa-
mund and Gladys Owen, all pink ruffles and
shadow-lace overdresses and hats, their hands
filled with pink water-lilies, followed tiny
trainbearers Anne Gordon and Daisy Os-
borne. Best man “Sandy” Jaques and
groomsman Charley Orr completed the group.
Ruth's reverend dad helped padre Micklem
tie the knot. Bridegroom is of the Victorian
Whitings. Among those at the reception held
later at the Australia were Mrs. Arthur
Little, very charming in grey; Mrs. Phil Mor-
ton, in swathings of black, after the style
of a Roman matron; and the new Rupert
Clarke lady in white silk jersey-cloth topped
with a large black picture-hat and wearing
the £15,000 string of pearls around her
throat. Bride chose champagne silk for the
going-away frock. Talking about champagne
reminds that the ’groom drank the toasts
in sherbet or some such softness. When the
first blush of the honeymoon fades the Harry
Whitings will be found at the Pacific at
Manly.
The office of Joseph Playoust was festive
one afternoon last week when the French-
Australian League of Help invaded it in its
latest frock and bonnet. When the last arri-
val had been seated Consul Campana’s wife
presented Mrs. Arthur Jewett with a set
of crystal drinking utensils and a diamond
and pearl brooch. The McMillan lady had
a few graceful words to say in regard to
Mrs. Jewett’s devotion to the cause; and
the usual party followed.
This is Miss L. E. Armstrong, masseuse,
who, after voluntary service in London since
1914, has never an 0.8. E. to her name. In
August of the War Year she gave up an
engagement as lec-
turer on massage in
Maoriland and
dashed off to London
with her knowledge.
She made her way to
the War Office and
offered her services.
“Thank you,” she
was told, “but in this
war there will be no
opening for massage
work!” When the
Contemptibles began
to stream back to
London it was a dif-
ferent story; so Miss
Armstrong set to
work, kept herself
with a few private
patients, and gave
the rest of her time, without payment,
wherever she could be of use. Now she is
back to London again, this time to open an
information bureau for Australians travel-
ling in Europe. Her idea is tp cater for
the traveller of small means; and her special
interest will be to make the way easy for
those Australian mothers and fathers who are
anxious to visit the graves of those dear
to them. Prime Minister Hughes has
bestowed his benediction on Miss. Arm-
strong’s scheme; and the lady, who; leaves
by the Ormonde, will probably set up shop
in Australia House.
Brisbane’s social round :
General Chauvel and his lady came to town last
week. On Thursday, in Wickham Park, he presented
a number of decorations to returned soldiers. Lance-
corporal Gordon, of the 41st Battalion, who, single-
handed, collected a Hun machine-gun, an officer and
10 men, received his V. 0., and appeared thoroughly
upset when the crowd cheered.
His Ex. and Lady Goold-Adams are leaving us
next month. They are going back to England, and
no one knows who will take their place.
The Church of England will shortly commence to
build its War Memorial Hospital. A good idea, pre-
suming that returned soldiers and their dependants
get free treatment there. Military hospitals are
only for men suffering from wounds or illness con-
tracted on active service; and there’s many a
Digger in a sick bed at this moment who wouldn’t
be there if he hadn’t been to the war, and yet isn’t
eligible for a military hospital.
Two new engagements. Major Mordaunt Sutton,
elder son of Lieut.-Colonel Sutton, D. 5.0., is to wed
an English girl, Beryl Southgate, of Hampton Wick;
and Lieut. George Addison has given a ring to
Miriam Urquhart, only daughter of our Police Com-
missioner.
“Vandorian’s” note from London: —
Amongst other recent arrivals from Australia are
H. C. Macfie and his dainty little wife. They are
here for about three months —missed the railway
strike by a few days, but were just in time for a
sudden shock of Arctic weather. As the men home
from the north of Russia complain of the cold in
London as damp and raw beyond anything they felt
in the Archangel adventure, Australians may be ex-
cused for wondering whether they are living on top
of a refrigerator. Accountant Modlin, who dropped
his ledgers to volunteer for war work, is back in
civvies, and returns next year to Sydney. At present
he has an important job as senior auditor to the
British Air Force.
Delicate greys and blues and greens, the
mistiness of rice-fields, rain and wind blow-
ing cleanly through a world of bridge and
stream and twisted tree, reproduced with a
pastel-like softness, though in reality the
pictures are block prints. Mrs. Bertha Lum
is the artist, and she has got back very close
to the methods of such old Japanese masters
as Harunobu and Utamaro, in spite of the
difference between the loose texture of the
paper of old and the harder surface of to-day.
Just now there are examples of the lady’s
work in Sydney, most of them, particularly
those in which she has embodied some legend
of the Japan that was before the cherry-
blossom plot was laid out as a factory site,
already carrying the red seal. You will love
the woman of the Tanabata legend. This is
the story of lovers condemned by the Sun
God, because they loved too much, to live
separated by the River of Heaven, but
allowed to spend one night of the year to-
gether, if that night be free of cloud or mist,
the river of Heaven being spanned for the
lovers’ feet by a bridge of birds. Then there
is “Kite Plying’’ and “The Bamboo Road’’—
but you will find a corner filled with the lure
at Tyrrell’s.
Singing teacher Ada Gee is back in Sydney
after seeing something of the progress of
Vera Cree at her studies. Vera is the girl
with the contralto who won a Royal Academy
scholarship.
Dorothy Isabel Perrins, younger daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. Geo. Perrins, of Neutral
Bay, had a wedding at Penang recently. The
bridegroom, John Thurston, is the eldest
son of the late Sir John, a former Governor
of Fiji. Although the trousseau failed to
arrive until after the wedding, the well-
known Sydney girl made excellent shift with-
out it. The wedding tiffin was at the E.
and O. Hotel, where Mrs. Philson (sister of
the bride) held a reception. Both the girls
have married rubber planters.
Two sons of Manager Hooten, of the
Farmers’ Co-operative, Maoriland, get mar-
ried this month ; one on the 20th, the other
on the 22nd. Russell is linking up witli
Gertrude juloyd at St. Clement’s, Mosinan.
and the wedding party is to be held at her
home, I'eradeniga. Brother Fred, as clever
if not so scholastic, marries Mamie Mathews
at St. Stephen’s. Their feast is to be spread
at the Carlton. Hooten pere was formerly
manager for Peabody’s.
Flag-Lieutenant Conway Lyon, of the Aus-
tralia, has been made as buoyant as a cork
by the promise of attractive Hilda Love to
wear his engagement-ring. Hilda’s dad,
James Love, owns much stock in Queens-
land.
Up in Camden Buildings the invalided
soldiers show their handiwork: pretty
woven bead necklets; riding-whips and
bridles, one set, bought by the Cullen lady,
of the softest plaited kangaroo leather;
beautifully-polished shellac-finished wood-
work, the surface mirror-like; and as for
needlework —well, the average girl hasn't
a look in.
Poor little Mrs Horwitz duly died “before
Christmas” as her counsel told the Judge in
Divorce she would. She was a tiny wisp of
humanity even when, as Babs Eaton, she had
no suspicion that her lungs were doomed.
Latterly she had faded to a shadow, and she
was interested in nothing—least of all in the
case which provided Sydney with a nine-
hours’ wonder.
Lord Dalmeny—Lord Rosebery’s son and
heir —is suing his wife for divorce on the
ground of desertion. The dispute is years
old. In 1917 he put an announcement in
the London papers like any harassed bank-
clerk that he would no longer be liable
for the lady’s debts. (Apart from being the
son of one of the wealthiest Scotch peers he
is a Rothschild on his mother’s side.) This
enraged the lady, and she replied with an
advertisement beginning, “I, Dorothy Dal-
meny, hereby declare that the following is
the sum total of my indebtedness”; and she
went on to detail every farthing she owed,
down to sums such as “National Linen Co.
£2 14s. 6d.” The lot came to something
under £7OO, exclusive of a bank overdraft.
Since then her friends (she is a daughter of
Lord Henry Grosvenor) have referred to
him as “that d—d Yiddish bounder,” and the
language of his friends about her and
her relations has been unmentionable.
Lord Rosebery, who is hopelessly ill.
didn’t want the divorce. After the death
of his brilliant second son, Neil Prim-
rose, he centred his hopes on Lord Dal-
meny, who was solid if not scintillating in
Parliament. Before the war no divorced
person, whether petitioner or respondent,
could go to Court or expect any sort of Court
preferment. But all that is being altered. It
was inevitable it should be, or Court gather-
ings would have been shorn of about half
their old strength in historic names. If
Lord Dalmeny gets his divorce he will pro-
bably remarry, as Lord Downshire did, and
all will be forgiven and forgotten. He
fought through most of the war with a Yeo-
manry Regiment in Palestine and Egypt.


!
! ■.
I iHfe® i
'1
.. . ■
m
■: if M^y
Jfi
i»P
IB
.
■;;
%
%
1
H w
ym m
\*2 •
>i V
' i
:
■ 3
os^
v'-ru
II
: 1
4-*
‘ *5
WS
wm
m
- i 4 '
8
* rtV
■
■
Hi
un
■■■■Ml
•: Tl
.• r
e
7
%
!P . . * i
f • - * lilillglli
■*"V : ± W
tMM
ZF
m
> :
?.f '
wmm
m M
wm
■■ ■
. $
■
MM
'#m' ..mk &2
-
m
V *
gHni
4f
I
&
1010*47
)(VCX!t<
SQ'SKKKK
3
“UNDER COVER ORA SURE
GUARANTEE"
1: ■
WMSmm
m m
■ :
m
■ ■
11
■
i
m
I I
- ■
I ■ m
m
: ..
m
■ I
1
|ff(gf|g
I|^B
. : ■ . . ... . ..
' II
iii
t? ' wwwrH m
THERE &BACK"
H M


Tl/ff E N everywhere
sing the praises of
Pelaco Collars. When
buying them you get
the utmost in collar-
quality and style.
Made in Australia
Reliable JKCercers sell them
“THERE'S MONEY IN THE PEN."
8^
The above ,
is the titled
of our book-
let, which
tells about
the possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
by HARRY J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
difference between
learning to COPY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains, in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
penny stamps
to-day for a
copy of this
booklet—•
“THERE’S
MONEY
IN
THE
PEN.”
THE. HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
108 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY,
ciSiA
ft
3Z>
£
&
c; -
%
V
!aous
This is the
Registered
Trade Mark
Of the best
place to get
your
Fishing Tackle,
Guns, Rifles,
Cartridges,
Tennis Goods, etc.
318 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 51st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
There’s Nothing Like Leather.
And a Christinas Gift in Leather Shows Good Taste.
■
fCOO-KOO-KOO- K’BURRA
WHIPS
ANY STOCKMAN WILL APPRECIATE A K’BURRA STOCKWHIP.
Plaited Belly and Kangaroo Right Through.
A TIP-TOP GIFT. 50/- POST FKEE.
FOB FITTFE CHILDREN.
No. 47 Treeless Felt Riding
Pad, with Safety Clogs,
£3/2/6.
No. 79 Feather Pilch, with
Stirrups, £3/12/6. If with
Safety Clogs, £4/2/6.
FOR GIRFS ABOUT 15
YEARS.
No. 311), with Fow Pads,
or No. 86D, with High Pads,
are suitable for Girls.
Either Saddle, £6/12/6, or
£6/16/- with Hog Scat.
WRITE AT ONCE FOR
OUR CATALOGUE AND
SEE OUR BIG LIST OF
SADDLES FOR LADIES
AND GENTS.
L
THE GIFT FOB THE
SMALL BOY OR GIKE UP
TO 11 YEARS.
No. 83, the Saddle illustrated, is one of
our High-class Boy or Girl Saddles. Of
first-class workmanship right through.
With Girth Leathers and Stirrups,
£9/5/6.
No. 82, Boy’s Park Saddle, at £7/17/6;
No. 69, Boy’s Miniature Stock Saddle, at
£7/2/6; and No. 26, Boy’s Saddle, with
Low Pads, or No. 27, with High Pads,
at £5, are ail presents that will please.
SADDLES SENT FREIGHT FREE FOR CASH WITH
ORDER TO ANY PORT OR RAILWAY STATION
IN NEW SOUTH WALES.
Ringrhead Pony Bridles, 17/3, posted.
Double-reined .Pony Bridles, 25/9 posted.
Breastplates, 13/3 and 14/6, posted.
Saddle Pouches, 12/9, 14/3, 15/9, posted.
Saddlery, Polo & leather Goods Specialists.
Ladies' Double-reined Bridles* 28/3 and 30/9*
posted.
Gent.’s Station Bridles* 19/3 and 21/9*
posted.
Saddle Cloths: Boys’* 8/-; Gent.’s, 10/6.
Ladies’ Saddle Cloths* 22/- and 13/6* posted.
WALTHER & STEVENSON LTD., 393 George Street, Sydney.
BOSTQCK’S DRY CLEANER
FOR
Wfritg & Colored Sogdg&CaiWaS SfrogS.
It never fails to give entire satisfaction, being easily applied, does not
rub off, and is unequalled in every way.
COLORS:—White, Black, Light Grey, Dark Grey,
Champagne.
BoStock’S Violo Polishes, Ltd.,
SYPNCy.
THE SIGN OF
PERFECTION
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of ■
Schute, BeltS Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office-
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
sdf
George hotel,
St. Hilda. Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
He Wants a GBD
He may not say so, but
once he’s tried it, he’ll
realise it’s the pipe he’s
been seeking all these
years—a clean-smoking
French Briar, thoroughly
seasoned, free from flaws,
that gives a sweet, cool
smoke and never “bites.”
Look for the trade-mark
on the stem.
V.
\A\
Mil
Jl
GBD
the perfect pipe
0; ft
y v{V
Many shapes
Obtainable everywhere.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (.except oj a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Geo.: All right; Grant teas a member of
the 1.W.W., and “Lou’s” statement that he was
once offered a job as private sec. to a Premier is
a tarradiddle. It looked like one, anyhow Ronno.
Talk about “the western plains” is too general....
B.N. (Vic): If it’s not clear to you you must be
hard of understanding. It isn’t what “little Eng-
land with her load of debt to America” can do;
it’s what she undertook to do and didn’t, “on the
ground of economy”.... Choke Bore: Vi ill be glad
to read them Peter F.: Can't make head or
heels of it H.C.S.: It’s not right yet; it wants
a snappier rhythm... .Possum: No ; but possibly }on
could rind a market for it elsewhere J.H.Q.: Too
technical.... A.C.S.: Good stuff. Glad to get moie.
F.L.11.: Can’t follow you. D’you hold that
the Burnett R. salmon is distinct from the eerato-
dus ?... . Simplicitas: A flower that can do all that
ought to be either used as motive power or hunted
down as a noxious weed... .C.J.W.: The warrior is
dismissed.... J .J.C.: Bon t And any joy in the
catalogue P. 1.0.: Very rugged verse Acrabah:
Gets out of step too often W.A.H.: Not up....
Litmus: No use F.F. (Newcastle): “Reverie”
sounds like somebody trying to think of all the
commonplaces he could while being bitten by bull-
dog ants.... Quart Pot; Doesn’t hold enough Jack
T.: Eighteen is quite a good age at which to write
verse. But there is verse written at 18 which is.
quite bad U.M.: Received lines beginning “Yet
wild the grape.” Yet wilder the man who had to
try to find a meaning in them N.8.N.: Not up.
. ...T.O. (Darlinghurst) ; Too little there. .. .G.F.D.:
None of them get near... .C.D.C.: “Love and
Locality” not for u 5.... H.K.: What is it all about ?
... .Tom Noddy: It doesn’t make a yarn... .Cora D.;
“Love’s Message” won’t d 0... .G.E.M.: Too nearly
prose 1.M.D.; Far too slight C. 0.11.; Dull and
heavy fooling Flicker: Don't care for the Greek-
It.alian-Jew person.... L.L. (Macleod) : Nothing....
Jackeroo: No place for “How We Guaranteed the
Quack.” F. Brown: “Mates” in class Z One
Who Knows: ZZ yours E.L.A.: Don’t waste any
more time W.T.: “The Light Horseman’s Farewell
to his Steed” is poor reward for the nag’s services.
Mac: Is that the best you can do for “our heri-
tage”? D.H. (M.L.): What’s it all about?
J. 5.8.: No use to u 5.... Johnny: Nicely done, but
not quite enough in the yarn.... Moonstone: Don’t
know her address, but she might see it: —
I kissed her lips of coral the last for many a day ;
I could see her waving to me as I crossed the one-
mile creek; , ,
Then the dense scrub hid her from me and I turned
for far away.
You’ll get over it. .There never was such a nice
garl that there wasn’t a nicer,... Talord: You
got it right when you headed it “An Overdose”....
Charles C. McN.: Try to get away from that hum-
drum verse .Marjorie C.: What the . But
listen: —•
The morning laugh of an apricot
Swam out in the hot, still air—
I found old ambergris-eyed Desire
Coiled up in your pale, quick hair.
The other verse has a line —“The crumpled corner
of her mulberry mouth” —that recalls something
or somebody. Probably somebody... .1.Q.G.: Thanks ;
but jam isn’t very welcome on this table... .James
B.: No good; and next time don’t write on both
sides of the foolscap H.8.A.: Descriptive verse
is difficult. You haven’t got the knack of it....
J. 11.: Your mate beats the massed bands.... Kate
O’C.: Might have done for a song-and-clog by
Charlie Cogill in the days of long ago P.McC.:
. 'Well, when you drop from the clouds we’ll be glad to
* hear from 3-ou Stephen S.: Go down to the bot-
tom of the class M. 8.5.: “He flapped his wings”
—well, let him J. Gore J. (aged 16): You’re in
too early... .T.C.: Fate, Life and Death all fail to
do the trick... .Lester S.: The story would have
made one good paragraph... .E.P.: The common-
place of 20 years ago, much of which now seems
to be untrue. For instance, discoveries in Crete
seem to show that Greek civilisation is older than
Egyptian Hugh S.: Not worth while Withy-
comb: That’s a fine line, “I wish I had the green
shoes,” but the rest is a bit muddy. Try putting
an idea in every line and a rhyme at the end of
each W.E. (Boggabri): Correct, but uninterest-
ing and imitative Mannamead: Verse not up....
F.M. (Adelaide) : The writing is good enough ; now find
something to say.... Possum: The only interesting
statement is that you were not drunk... .Machinery:
Doesn’t get to anything new. . . .P.: You didn't
understand what the other man wrote... .C.G.F.:
The verse doesn’t make g00d.... J.W.P.: You had a
bright subject, but the verse doesn’t match it
M.8.P.: “Meteor-blind” won’t d 0... .F.W.R.: “Nar-
bethong” is a good wav off. . . .Sidbee: Not quite.
T.L.A.: No use. .. .E.A.W.: Sorry stuff
H.C.K.S.: Verse-writers who need an angel’s assist-
ance are pretty numerous.... Stanley C.: Can’t find
any interest in the oft-repeated statement that
“Granny kept the boarding-house” R.C. (Gee-
long) : One slab: —•
In vain, O God, in vain I sigh
For a star that lies in a distant sky!
Embedded with her lesser mates,
She, luminous, predominates.
What on earth would you do with the star if you
got it?
TO AUTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
D.D.T.: Don’t think a dog would eat a wowser
that way....W.G.: Both drunks cold-soher... .W.F.:
Bright idea from Boree Creek too late... .R.T.:
Looks like contempt of court.... A.H.: Can’t use
the Gunner... .D.T.M.: Depressing episode in India
ink. ...Mac: Why has the tree got hair instead of
foliage? R.A.8.: No laughter in it H.C.: The
angels won’t perch here... .Harry R.: Belongs to
1860 P.McG.: Farmer looks like a disguised emu.
D.D.T.: Stodgy work. Look for brighter gags
and work some gaiety into the pictures... .Jim Mac:
You’ve a crude sense of humor... .K.A.H.: Cheerful,
but it’s only scrapbook stuff... .V.Q.: One more
cold scone aimed at the profiteer!
“Widgee” : Young Bill was given a ban-
tam. Presently it laid a bantam’s egg. His
brothers scoffed at its size. One day he
noticed a china egg in the hens’ quarters
and asked Mum what it was for. She told
him it was for the encouragement of the
fowls. Later in the day, when nobody was
looking, young Bill reached down one of
the emu-eggs from the parlor mantelpiece
and took it to the bantam’s run. “Yow/”
he said, aud put it in the bantam’s nest.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information r. garding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ua.,
City 424 6, 2, 4, G Spring Street,
48i o! Sydney.
Sydney to England
via
the Allied Route,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, JANUARY 14,
VENTURA.
10,QUO Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Telephone: City 2282. 44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
. THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman); WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ; lion. Sir ROBERT PHILP,
Iv.C.M.G.; Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. 691.850 10 0
Reserve Fund .. .. . . .. 272,000 0 0
interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,609 4 5
All new business since IS9S specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love. Esq.;
W. H. Hart, Esq.; Joseph Hughes, Esq., 1.5.0.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
IIKAI) OFFICE ... BRISBANE.
Brandies —Lmidnn, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
Amerioa, Canada, South Afrioa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £160,000
Directors : HERBERT R. LYSAGHT, Esq., Chairman ;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LL.D.; FRANK N. YAR-
WOOD, Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq.; Hon.
F. JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.; DUNCAN CARSON,
Esq.
General Manager-. C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Chief Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. 11. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedie Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 146 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up .. .. .. 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital .. .. . . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,496,224
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
SYDNEY OFFICE: 105 PITT STREET.
Paid-up Capital ■ • \ • • • £500,000
Reserve Fund . . •. .. • ■ 570,000
£1,070,000
Uncalled capital .. .. 125,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 625,000
£1.820.000
Head Office : ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 85 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office: 11 LEA DEMI ALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted. I
Shipping-, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST, FASTEST. AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow. Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, December.
R.M.S. MAKUIiA, January.
j )eau Oful Scenery in the World—the Canadian Rookies —is on the All-Red Route.
Tile Prairies, the Great Lakes, Chicago, Niagara Palls un<l New York can all be visited.
Through bookings to all Canadian, United States and European points.
Stop-overs on the Railways Arranged.
. CALL OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS OF THIS ROUTE.
PASSENGERS CAN CHANGE AT HONOLULU INTO A DIRECT STEAMER FOR
SAN FRANCISCO.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco,via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona. Yellowstone Park, Niagara Fails, etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
I
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks* Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Send for particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Paid-up Capita]
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
CO
*4,000,000
3,200,000
4,000,000
£11,200,000
The Hon. Sir Cnarles li. MaeKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buekland. F.sq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
F. H. S. Falkiner. Esq., M.H.TI.
Auditora: A. G. Milson, Esq; W. H. Palmer, Esq. General Manager: Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office —29 Xhreadneedle Street, E.C.
341 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Commonwealth,
B HEAD OFFICE
sd
3M ot Hustralia
SYDNEY. ■
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australiaand Rabaul (New Britain),
also London (2), and A.I.F. Camps in England.
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and SAVINGS BANK AGENCIES at 2776 Post Offices
throughout Australia, Papua, New Britain, Solomon Islands,
and The Pacific.
JAMES KELL, DENISON MILLER,
Deputy Governor 1919 Governor
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1834.
Capital paid up £2,382,018 15 0
Reserve Fund - £2,120,000 0 0
Reserve Capital £2,500,000 0 0
£7,002,018 15 0
y
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. H. E. liater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses, M.L.C.
J. TV. Maearthur Onslow, Esq.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes,
M.L.C.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
11. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 843 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Branch: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C.
London Bankers— The Bank of England; The London County Westminster and
Parr's Bank, Limited; Barclays Bank. Limited.
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Shipping.
SYDNEY INTER-STATE
SUB-COMMITTEE.
INTER-STATE PASSENGER SAILINGS
(Circumstances Permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, AND
FREMANTLE.
*Dimboola omits Adelaide and calls at Albany.
FOR BRISBANE, PORT ALMA, MACKAY, BOWEN
JETTY, TOWNSVILLE JETTY AND CAINRS.
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Lunda-
bcrg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for out-ports.)
Huddart Parker Ljsi
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND. —1 tegular sail
ings between Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand
ports and vice versa; particulars to be obtained on
application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA.—From Sydney to
Hobart and vice versa every three weeks. Between
Melbourne and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; George Street, Sydney.
AUS.N Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE FINE TWIN-SCREW STEAMER
“LEVUKA,” 6500 tons,
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
The “Levuka” is fitted with wireless and with
every modern convenience for the comfort of passen-
gers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 26
days, and from Sydney 18 days. Passengers desiring
a more extended tour can travel by S.S. “Amra,”
which connects at Suva.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald,
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street,
Melbourne, or Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS: also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumhah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First : elass rail and saloon on
steamer, £ 6 13s. 6d.; second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 7s. 6d.
For particulars apply :
ROOIvING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST.. SYDNEY.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
Favorite Mail Route to Japan, with connections
at Japan to
EUROPE AND AMERICA.
Tours can be arranged to China, Japan, Korea,
by this Line.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN.
Via Brisbane, Townsville, Thursday
Island, Zamboanga, Manila, Hongkong,
Nagasaki, Kobe and Yokohama.
SPECIAL NOTICE. —All Passengers proceeding to
JAPAN must have their Passports vised by the Con-
sul-General for Japan in accordance with the regula-
tions of the Japanese Government
Full particulars of Sailing Dates, Passage Money,
Freights, etc., apply
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LTD.,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address: Cable Address:
“Macdonald Hamilton.” “Iroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Managing Agents for:
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co. Limited.
Fitzroy Estates Limited.
Blackheath Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS FOR:
Biitish India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Sydney).
P. & 0. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messageries Maritimes Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line ('Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane.
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co. —at Queens-
land Ports).
Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports).
Huddart Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide*
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
Head Office: Mary Street, Brisbane.


Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed bp the importing
bookseller.
STEPHEN GRAHAM.
A Private in the Guards. By
STEPHEN GRAHAM, Author of
“With the Russian Pilgrims to
Jerusalem,” “Priest of the Ideal,” etc.
10s. net.
Industry and Trade. A Study of
Industrial Technique and Business
Organisation; and of their Influences
on the Conditions of various Classes
and Nations. By ALFRED MAR-
SHALL. 18s. net.
Daily Mail : “The difference between the New
and the Old Economists could not be better illus-
trated than it is by Professor Alfred Marshall’s
big volume, ‘lndustry and Trade,’ which all who
are trying to understand our difficulties and
prospects ought to read, mark, learn and
inwardly digest. . . .The width and variety of the
information brought together give the book rare
value. No side of the subject is neglected.”
ROUND TABLE PUBLICATIONS.
The Round Table
A Quarterly Review of the Politics of
the British Commonwealth.
Price 2s. 6d. per copy, or 10s. per
annum, post free to any address within
the Empire.
LEADING CONTENTS FOR SEPTEMBER:—
AUSTRALIA.
Constitutional Revision —The One Big Union
Movement.
THE HARVEST OF VICTORY.
Before the Storm—l9l4-1919 —The Peace Con-
ference —Problems of the Future.
THE ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL SITUA-
TION.
NATIONALISATION AS A REMEDY.
The Problem of the Common-
wealth. L. CURTIS. The after-
war relations between Great Britain
and the Dominions. Sewed, 2s. 6d.;
cloth, 4s.
The Commonwealth of Nations. The
historical basis of the foregoing.
6s.
FIFTH EDITION.
Mendelism. By Professor R. C.
PUNNETT, F.R.S. Fifth Edition.
With Illustrations in Color and in
Black and White. 7s. 6d. net.
THOMAS HARDY.
Collected Poems of Thomas Hardy.
With Portrait, Bs. 6d.
Living: Alone. By STELLA BEN-
SON, Author of “I Pose,” etc. ss.
(Being No. 668 of Macmillan’s
Empire Library.)
His Family. By ERNEST POOLE,
Author of “The Harbor.” 3s. net.
A story of a father and three daughters whose
life is mainly spent in New York. It touches
on many vital problems of modern life, and is
chiefly remarkable as an exposition of the
development of dissimilar types of womanhood.
His Second Wife. By ERNEST
POOLE. 3s. net.
In the characters of Ethel, the second wife,
idealistic, frank and lovable, and Joe, her hus-
band, whose higher strivings have been somewhat
killed by the materialism of his first wife, Mr.
Poole has drawn two figures of surpassing
interest.
The Hills of Desire. By R. A.
MAHER. 4s. 6d.
The Rising of the Tide. The Story
of Sabinsport. By IDA M. TAR-
BELL, 4s. 6d.
Though Miss Tarbell is one of the most widely
read authors of America,.this is her first long
novel. Its splendid understanding of human
nature, and the dramatic quality of its scenes
are calculated to make it as popular reading as
have been her previous contributions to litera-
ture.
Orders for the above two books to be sent
to the Melbourne Depot, 109 Russell Street.
To be Obtained from ail
Booksellers .
MACMILLAN gCO.LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
ft*
ABBEY
JSHOES!
Every wearer of Abbey Shoes has the
comforting knowledge that his footwear
leaves nothing to he desired.
We feature a smart, made-to-order style
in Tan Willow Calf.
Price 3 51- & 4 51-
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney
31idiart Jfnut
Suggestions for GIFT GOODS.
Our Christmas showing: of fancy gifts
as follows are of most choice selection,
comprising New Designs of Silks from
English and French looms.
1
Silk Knitted Ties.
Handkerchiefs to match.
Colored Socks.
Silk Shirts. Pyjamas.
Dressing and Bath Robes.
fs
314 George Street
(near Hunter Street), SYDNEY.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
'3o+'+*
Dependable Guns
!»e
3*
OF STERLING VALUE. RIGID and RELIABLE.
WE HAVE AN UNRIVALLED SELECTION.
COMBINED
KNIFE, FORK & SPOON,
all metal, very strong 1 .
Price 2/- post free.
“SUNOL” Pocket Lighters.
Better than Matches.
Price 2/- each, post free.
»-•- ■
83. Harrington and Richardson’s
D.8.8.L. Gun, 16-, 20- or 28-gauge, top
lever, case-hardened frame, 26in. barrels, both choke;
weight about hjlb Freight paid,
£5/10/'
WE REPAIR
GUNS# RIFLES
*2± Sunol Tobacco
Awarded 4 Gold Medals.
2oz. Sample 1/2, Post Free.
1
ItlCh barrels, both choke
patent fore-ends, highly
1525. Altentlorf and Wright’s High-grade
English D.8.8.L. Gun, 12-gauge, 2e-, 30-
, top action cross-bolt, spring strikers, rebounding locks,
engraved, matted rib, weight about 7-Jlb. Freight paid,
£.lB/18/-
“Koolah” Shaving Sticks
Delightful to Use. 7d. each, post free.
Owing to market fluctuations,
prices here quoted are subject
to change without notice.
j&a&
’-rj
812. “Ithaca” Arms Co.’s Hammerless D.8.8.L.
Pigeon Gun (as illustrated), field quality, 12 gauge, top lever,
dense Trogan nitrol 32in. steel barrels, both choke Greener crossbolt, high file-cut rib, pistol
grip, chambered for 2 fin. cartridges, walnut stock, weight 71b. to 7jib.
Tested for Nito Powders Freight paid,
We can also supply the “Ithaca” Gun, similar description to No. 12 but
higher grade 12-gauge at Freight paid,
£9/10/
£l l/11/
dfs
833. Winchester Automatic Repeating Shot-Gun,
1911 Model, 12-gauge, walnut stock, pistol grip, nickel-steel
barrel, 28in., full choke, take-down system, chambered for 2|in. shells.
Magazine holds 5 cartridges, rubber butt-plate.
Weight 7Jlb Freight paid,
£.12/12/-
POWDER
Just arrived large shipment of Gunpowder.
You are advised to make an early purchase
AUSTRAL 3/9 lb.
DIAMOND GRAIN 5/- lb.
DUPONT’S SmoKeless for Guns 10/6 lb.
DUPONT’S SmoKeless for Rifles 11/9 lb.
E. C. SMOKELESS 11/9 lb.
PLEASE NOTE.—Powder cannot be posted.
MINIMUM FREIGHT on any quantity packed up to 281 b.
is 10/- in N.S.W.
m
826. Midland Gun Co.’s D.8.8.L.
Pigeon Gun. 12-gauge, top action, bar locks,
Greener cross-bolt, high-filed rib, 28-inch steel
barrels, both choke, D. & E. fore-end side clips, chambered for 2£in. cartridges,
beautifully engraved, weight about 7fib Freight pai ,
f.14/14/-
SB
■s^
834. Remington Browning Automatic Repeating
Shot Gun, 12-gauge, slide grip, steel barrels, take-down
system, magazine holds six cartridges ;
weight about 71b Freight paid,
£,12/12|
Steven’s
5.8.8 X. Gun,
12- or 16-gauge,
f
top action, solid case-hardened frame, decarbonised steel barrel, 30in. or 32in.
pistol grip, walnut stock ; weight about 6-Jib. Gun can be taken apart, same as
an ordinary Double-barrel Gun.
87 Auto-Ejector, 47/6
Postage—2/6 N.S.W.
4/8 Inter-State-
ILLUSTRATED SPORTSMAN’S GUIDE POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
!IC
EUSmiLmS GREATEST
SPORTS OUTFITTERS-
nm TOBACCONISTS
sdf
City Sports Depot
99 King St, also at
Piewzastk d Brisbane^


Another Bonny Rexona Baby
Is Your Little One a Rexona
Baby too?
'
e
//a/;2/ DOROTHY HARMAN, aged 12 months (from
a photo).
Mother-wisdom knows that the little
one could not croon that baby-song of
happiness unless she was clean and cool
and comfortable in every fibre of her
little body. Look at the bonnie limbs,
feel the firm fiesh, touch the velvet
cheeks. Can’t you guess ? She’s a Rexona
baby, of course. Each day mother bathes
her little treasure with pure Rexona
Soap, the baby’s own soap, that destroys
disease germs and keeps the tender skin
clear and healthy. She keeps colds,
rashes, , chafing and other baby-ills far
from her. Ha by is the best tiling she
has, and the best of Soaps is only just
good enough for her. That is why she
is a Rexona Baby. See?
Dear Sirs, —
Please find enclosed my
baby’s photo (Dorothy). She
is 12 months old, and I have
always used Rexona Soap to
wash her, and she has a most
beautiful, clear and soft com-
plexion. I can recommend
Rexona Soap to any mother
for baby’s use.
Trusting you will like my
baby’s photo,
I remain, yours faithfully,
Mrs. R. HARMAN,
Butcher Street, St. Arnaud,
Victoria.
Rexona Soap—a Treat for the Bath
A morning: bath with
Rexona Soap Is not only a
pleasure but a health-
Kiving habit. The essences
and juices which have
made Rexona, the Rapid-
healing Ointment, a house-
hold necessity, are intro-
duced into Rexona Soap,
and in your bath are
absorbed into the skin of
tiie whole body. The re-
sult is skin health and
skin protection. When the
pores have absorbed the
pure aroma of the herbs
embodied in Rexona one
is protected from colds or
disease. Rexona Soap is
a favorite with the most
fastidious, and with the
most prudent of people.
%
M
m
ci cAMiej
I
HEALS ANp
toilet, Bath
PumneJ
*
SKIN & FACIAL
M
raJ
%-msrn
mz
Large and Lasting Tablet
Price 1/-
w
mm
m
\
WM
'4i
A.
WAI
:;:
!
9©e this brand
on each Shinh
Shirts
—are unmatched by any other Shirts made,
and are specially favored by exacting men.
Perfect in fit; full cut shoulders; no binding across
the^ chest or at the armholes ; and just the right
sleeve lengths.
Thistle Shirts are made in Australia, and are obtainable at all
Leading Shirt Departments. There are Thistle Shirts for all
occasions : Business or Recreation, Dress or Sports.
Ask also for THISTLE PYJAMAS.
ALEXANDER # STEWART & SONS LTD.,
Makers, BRISBANE and SYDNEY.
AS 3
safeguard you* health
prJ.Coltis Browne's
CWorodyne
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOB
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
aiul in the Cough of BItOiSCUITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLTC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
| ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery,
01 all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/S, S/-, a/-.
Made in England.
Unrest.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
OH, I am weary of the way of streets —
Of streets and streets with houses
set a-row
Like lines of pins upon the paper sheets
The drapers show.
Houses that mock me with their patient
eyes
And folded hands and shackled, heavy
feet;
Half-human things, grown old and tame and
wise
In their defeat;
Where souls, like isles marooned in lazy seas
Of lost endeavor, drowse through vacant
days,
Dreaming perchance of foundered argosies
Where drowned weed sways.
Soul-islands set in sundering seas of pain ;
Ports of regret where swiftly touch and go
Ships of the dark that seek the dark again,
Where no winds blow !
I hear the call of the world’s roads to-night;
Quick wind-feet rustle in the garden brake ;
One dusky cloud-trail cleaves the western
light
Like a long snake.
Earth-ways and sky-ways, and the camp-
tire’s gleam
For a brave comrade in the wilderness.
One with the soul of star and hill and stream,
Nor more, nor less.
So I will fare, and find the faring sweet.
With such full meed of honest company,
And every pulse of earth beneath my feet
Singing to me.
What else shall matter so the road be white,
The siren road that sings beyond our view,
And one pale star lean low from Heaven’s
height
Of burning blue?
What else shall matter so the kind winds
come
Like cloudy galleons laden with wild wine
Of great magnolias and camphor gum
And coidyline?
So Day and Night bring their alternate
trains
Of Magi from the tents invisible,
Where one lone lamp of wonder never wanes,
And stars stand still;
And the hours move on hushed and holy
feet,
And silence is such music as they know
Who hear the lonely heart of Nature beat,
And the grass grow.
Oh, it were more than the domain of kings
To drink, drink deep of that enchanted
cup
Green Twilight from her halls of magic
brings
When the gods sup.
Yea. I am weary of the way of streets:
Of streets of houses, in their prim plots
pent.
Give me the road, where earth and blue sky
meet,
My moving tent.
victoria.
MARIE E. J. PITT.
The Last Straw.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
CHRISTMAS Eve on the West Coast
of Tasmania came with winds from
. .. , , ~ ,
the Antarctic Circle and a cold stor-
age temperature to say that Australia is
not all drought and mirage. The air had
chonned ice in it, and any animal that was
not numb was ridged into goose flesh. Had
not numD b , „ . , , ,
the men of Balfour not been full led of meat
on the Australian method they would have
shown chilblained noses. Over the button-
grass and the tracks cut through it down to
the white bed «C quartzite shingle blew the
shining sleet and chilling breezes. Horse-
men felt almost relief at falling into the
comparatively warm wind of ‘ gluepots in
the button-grass after the chilling experience
of the rain. And the clouds brought-the
appearance of dusk while yet the afternoon
was young—a gloom suitable to those
mysterious novels whose style seems to have
grown out of a tremendous respect for an
unjust libel law, novels which never ap-
proached a direct statement more closely
than to say that “At the close of a certain
winter day in the year 18 — a mysterious
traveller might have been seen riding along
the road to S •” _
There was nothing mysterious about the
horseman who rode over the quartzite hills
and across saturated plateaux and flooded
valleys towards the despairing mining settle-
ment near Whale Head. He cursed the
country and the weather, with a special curse
for the quartzite, and another for the button-
grass, and yet another for the sleet. He also
regarded Christmas Eve as imbecile in ar-
riving for such weather, paying through his
chattering teeth : ‘ The dustbin of creation,
this place! When the sun shines the March-
flies are here by the million, ana if there are
no March-flies the place is all ice and frozen
slush. And the horse is so frozen he moves
like a pair of engineer’s dividers. I’ll get
< *Heai*mrantea with the supple grace of .
clothes-peg taking his right leg out of the
saddle and over to t e neai side of the
his shoulder he walked forward stiffly, as a
half-opened clasp knife; and the horse tot-
tcrcd after him on four wooden ]pcrq
Through the gloomy afternoon of slush-sat-
urated button-grass and sodden scrub, Brod-
ziak, the thick-set frozen man, walked until
his similarity to the clothes-peg grew to
almost perfection, for now he seemed not to
be hinged at the hips. He tried to remount
the horse on the level, and was too stiff to
raise his left foot to the stirrup and throw
his right leg over; so, cursing the world and
all that therein is, he led the horse a mile
fuither before he found a roc-k with an easy
assent, yet high enough for him to shuffle
off it into the saddle. The dark found him
still a mile from the hut of his friend the
manager of the Quartzite Hill—an alleged
mine of copper, but proving itself every day
to be most appropriately named. With
nightfall the wind seemed to find new
stiength and bitterness, as high seas appear
to become mountainous with darkness, be-
cause the palliative of light has been with-
drawn. The traveller, agonising in every
pore, chilled to the bone and wet to the
second skin, was now too dispirited even to
swear; with his despairing weary soul set in
resolution he urged his tottering horse
through seemingly endless mires and rush-
ing water, and over interminable button-
grass.
Then suddenly the light in the hut
window showed for a moment as a flickering
star; the horse pricked one of his sagging
melancholy ears and loosened a tail which
he had been carrying hard down between his
legs, and quickened his stiff walk. A quarter
of a mile of toe scrambling up a steep,
rubbly hill brought man and horse to the but
itself. Brodziak, riding past the window,
saw something which made him pull up and
look again, oblivious of the filthy day he had
come through and the mad winds roaring
through the night.
What he saw of that hut interior was a
great fire of gum logs burning in the fire-
place that was a fourth of the hut area ; a
noble fire, glowing and flaming and burning
to a white ash; and, before the fire, a tre-
mendous man, with dark brown hair and a
.yellow moustache —a big-legged, big-armed,
broad and deep-chested man. He was quite
naked, warming himself before the fire after
a day of cold storage and bitter sleet; and
but for one thing he was absolutely primi-
tive. That one thing of civilisation was a
pannikin. Steam rose from it. Brodziak could
almost believe that he smelled the fragrance
of the rum; but that thought left him at
once when he saw that Clancy, the big
naked man by the fire, was laughing up-
roariously, neglecting his drink to roar his
merriment as if he were not alone. But for
the heartiness and wholesomeness of the
laughter that solitary merriment would have
been imbecile. As it was, the frozen Brod-
ziak thawed to a sympathetic grin. He put
his heels to the barrel of the horse, and went
on the sodden way to the stables.
Brodziak unbuckled the frozen leather
and split a thumb-nail in the process; wiped
the rain from the horse, with his hand curved
to a sickle, and strapped the rug over the
rapidly thawing beast. The wind screamed
like all the German devils ever invented for
the Brocken; but the horse, almost whining
his comfort and relief, pushed his nose far
down info the manger full of good oaten
chaff and bran and maize that gave out heat
even in the mere chewing of it. The half-
frozen man, his duty done to his beast, tot-
tered on wooden legs out of the stable, through
the darkness and into the hut. In this
shelter Brodziak unlaced his boots and leg-
gings and threw them off, shed his coat and
shirt and let his trousers and underpants
fall, and so joined the thoroughly warmed
Clancy at the fire. And Clancy looked at
him, lifted his steaming pannikin and drank,
and then laughed directly at Brodziak.
Brodziak let him laugh while his own teeth
chattered; but when* half-thawed and now
beginning to steam, Clancy handed him a
pannikin of hot rum and water and laughed
again, the thick-set man demanded an ex-
planation. *
“What’s the joke, Paddy? Are you drunk,
or dippy?”
Clancy laughed the more, but conceded the
explanation.
“I got here at four o’clock, and when I
got warm all through I did an assay.” He
waved his hand at that portion of the hut
in shadow where Brodziak, by earlier ob-
servation, knew the cyanide jar and other
properties of the assayer resided. “And then
I toasted myself till my skin was almost pork-
crackling; and then I said to myself: ‘Here
am I good and warm and baked and happy,
and a cob of rum in my fist; and out there
somewhere on the frozen hills is old Broddy,
stiff as a Dutch doll, cold to the bone and
mad as a wet hen.’ So then I laughed—and
had another rum!”
“You’re a hard-hearted devil, Paddy.”
“If I weren’t, I'd die of despair. About
the only thing I can do is to laugh at my own
troubles, so that I don’t have to cry; and as
I laugh at my own, what the devil can I do
but laugh louder at yours?”
“And I suppose the rum tasted better be-
cause you knew I was out in Iceville?”
“It did that,” replied Clancy, quite can-
didly. “That rum tasted better than any
rum I ever had before because I knew some-
body was worse off than myself; just as this
fire seems perfect to both of us because the
wind is playing struggle-music around this
caboose.”
Brodziak, rapidly becoming warm and com-
fortable, grinned his approval. “I know!
The Pong sentenced to fifty blows of the
bamboo on the feet comforts himself when
he knows that another Pong is to get two
hundred. Pass the rum.”
“After you with the kettle. See my rotten
luck, Broddy. Here have I been 18 months,
and things worse now than they were at the
beginning. A year since I saw my poor
little wife; No. 2 shaft hung up three
months, waiting for a pump ; not a skerrig
of ore beyond the bunch or so they floated
this damned thing on ; the winze in quartz-
ite ; every damned end in quartzite. Eighteen
months of life wasted, and the rain is in my
bones.”
“There’s compensation, though. Look at
this splendid, wonderful, magnificent, superb,
great, hot fire. How would people who have
never been cold appreciate a fire like that?
They’d have a damn fire-screen to keep the
heat away; but we’ve been frozen as stiff as
a dead walrus, and we poke that fire; we
wash our hands in it; we eat it. And then
this rum, it came from sugar grown about
Mackay, or Isis; and the warmth of the big
hot Queensland sun is in it. And then some
great trading wizard bottled the sun and
the canefields, and sent it down here to
us in this suburb of Cape Horn so that we
wouldn’t go over the edge of despair and
run for the cyanide bottle.”
“You’re getting on, Broddy—have another
rum and loosen your tongue. Come to think
(Continued on next page.)


WHERE THE DANGER LIES
Many People Suffer from Kidney Disease, but do not know it. That’s the danger.
The Reason Kidney Disease
is so generally fatal is that
it comes on unnoticed and
often gains a firm hold on
the sufferer before he knows
what is wrong with him.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
should be used immediately
there is any such sign of
kidney disease as Backache,
Dizzy Spells, Water Troubles,
Gravel, Rheumatic Pains,
Heart Irregularity, Sleepless-
ness, Irritability, Watery
Swellings in the Ankles or
Beneath the Eyes, Lumbago.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
cleanse the kidneys and assist
them in their great work of
filtering the blood.
C2>
V*
W
u-
tn
n
W/mmrt/m.
“Every Picture Tells a Story.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold at 2/9 per
bottle at all Chemists and Stores, or from Foster-
McClellan Co., 15 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
Cured to Stay Cured.
SYDNEY TESTIMONY.
A MASCOT CASE.
Mr. A. B. Cowell, Sutherland Street, Mascot,
Sydney, says:—“Some months ago I was suddenly
seized with a terrible pain across my back, just above
the kidneys. It did not go away, as I thought at
first it would, but, on the contrary, it got worse and
I was soon so bad that I was bent almost double. I
was completely crippled, and even at night I got very
little rest from the constant pain. I could not turn
over without suffering acutely; in fact, no position
was comfortable for long. My secretions were
affected, being thick and cloudy, with a red sediment.
I tried different remedies, but they gave me no relief
whatever. One day a friend suggested I should take
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and it proved to be
good advice, too, for three bottles cured me completely,
driving the pain out of my back, regulating the secre-
tions, and banishing every other distressing symptom
of kidney disorder. I feel splendid now, and my
recovery is due solely to Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills.”
A RED FERN CASE.
Mrs. Mary McCann, 278 Abercrombie Street, Red-
fem, Sydney, says:—“l suffered from backache and
kidney trouble for some time, and was, generally
speaking, in a very poor state of health. My back
w T as very weak and lame, and every movement sent a
twinge through my kidneys like the stab of a knife. I
had no energy, could not get proper rest at night, and
always felt dull and tired. I had begun to think I
should never be free of kidney trouble, when it
occurred to me to try Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.
I got some at once, and by the time I had used the
first bottle I was a good deal better, and four bottles
cured me completely. It’s grand to be well again,
and I have only Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills to
thank for my splendid cure.”
Three years later Mrs. McCann says:—“l am
pleased to tell you I have had no return of backache
and kidney trouble since Doan’s Pills cured me over
three years ago.”
zd
DOAN'S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
fzs
of it, I’ll talk myself. I like my voice-pro-
duction. It’s fine after the fourth pot.
You’re right, Broddy. There’s compensa-
tion to everything. D’ye know the com-
pensation you’re going to have to-morrow l
Well, it’s fresh beef and vegetables. No less.
No more tinned dog for a week.”
“Who’s bringing the beef?”
“Twomey; and I’ve got the vegetables.
Forty-two cabbages and 29 lettuce. I’ve
watched over them like the apple of my eye.
This rotten hill was all quartz-slugs and
tree-roots. I chopped the tree-roots out, and
chucked the stones down the hill; cut off
the three inches of good soil there is all
about, until I got three feet of it in one
place. I wheeled 50 barrow-loads of manure
from the stable, and I tell you those 42
cabbages represent the patience of Job and
the sagacity of an elephant. And to-morrow,
old bird, we cut two cabbages and two lettuce.
We blow ourselves out good and plenty.
Hold your pannikin and I’ll give you the
hot water.”
lie lifted the kettle, but suddenly stopped
without pouring, and lifted his hand in a
gesture asking silence. The wind shrieked
round the hut, and the fire roared pleas-
antly in the great fireplace, with recurrent
hisses of steam as raindrops fell down the
chimney and into the flame. Then, behind
these sounds, the men recognised others at
the north-east corner of the hut—noises as
of clumsy animals lurching against flimsy
fences, and the cracking of little sticks.
“By God,” said Clancy, putting the kettle
down and jumping to the door, “it’s Twomey’s
bullocks —they’re after the cabbages! Get a
stick to meet ’em, Broddy.”
Clancy, carrying a stick, disappeared. The
other naked man, also seizing a stick, ran
out after him. Clancy, seeing a blackness
near him which seemed more tangible than
the night, struck out wildly with his stick,
and was answered by an animal snort of
terror and a breaking of palings as one of
Twomey’s bullocks flung himself through
the fence surrounding the cultivation and
escaped. Brodziak, aiming at everything
solid, struck the hut, and then a tree-trunk,
jarring his hands to the bones. Finally he
and Clancy found three bullocks, cunning
old workers, hiding around the warm chim-
ney-end of the hut, and these they beat into
madness and flight. Then thev returned to
the hut and re-thawed themselves. Clancy
opened a can of meat, and made the tea,
and peeled three red, angry Dons—great
Spaniards among all onions. After that,
while they ate, their clothes drying before
the fire sent up a great steam that made
the atmosphere of the hut half a vapor.
But, eating or drinking or smoking, Clancy
had but one plaint and anxiety.
“I say, Broddy,” said he, for a score of
times, “I don’t think they got to the cab-
bages, do you? Don’t you think we were
too quick for them?”
To which Brodziak replied: “I think so.
I hope so. But we can’t tell till daylight.”
“I’ve had a lot of rotten luck,” said
Clancy, “and if these damned bullocks of
Twomey’s have hurt a hair of the head of
•one cabbage—well, it’s no good trying any
more.”
The morning broke coldly, but with some
little pretence at the imitation of sunlight.
Brodziak, awaking late, saw that he was
alone in the hut; he dressed, and went out-
side. There he saw Clancy standing by
the broken fence and w T recked cultivation.
A bullock’s horn and a patch of blood
showed that one of Twomey’s bullocks had
paid for the cabbage, and that Clancy’s
stick had found a mark in the darkness.
But at what cost?
“How is it, Paddy?”
“How is it! Come here, Brod. See that!
Forty-two cabbages eaten to the quick—only
half a lettuce left. Now may Twomey’s
bullocks never eat again.”
“Bad luck, old man.”
“Bad luck! Can’t you get a name for it?
Eighteen months here in the lowest hell;
frozen all day and shivering all night. A
year since I saw my poor little wife. No. 2
shaft hung up for timber. Every end and
crosscut in quartzite. And now Twomey’s
bullocks have eaten my poor little fatherless
cabbages ! Come on, Broddy !”
“What for, Paddy?”
“It’s the last straw for the camel. Where’s
the cyanide?”
In the hut he took down the cyanide
bottle; then he saw the rum, and laughed.
“It isn’t the last straw yet, Broddy,” said
the man bereaved of his cabbages. “And
that bullock lost a horn. Pass the kettle.”
Things are never so bad that they could not
be worse.
RANDOPH BEDFORD.
Bags: a Tale of Babylon.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BEeSHAZZAR, Crown Prince, Regent,
Governor of the city and Com-
mander-in-Chief of what remained of
the army, gave a supper in the royal halls
of Babylon. It was a time of gloom, when
it behoved the man at the head of affairs
to laugh even if he didn’t feel like it.
The hall wasn’t necessarily the solid affair
that it sounded like. The people of that
country had a habit of building with sun-
dried bricks made of mud—hence the term
“sundries,” meaning things of little account
—because stone didn’t exist. For palaces
and such-like a great platform resembling
a beheaded pyramid was first built, with a
winding way up to it. This was to keep
the palace out of the slush. The building
was set on the beheaded pyramid. There
were no arches, because sundries are not
solid enough to make arches with —only
walls that were straight up and down. The
halls were as long as the builder liked, and
as wide as he could make them, allowing for
the fact that a single tree-trunk had to
stretch from wall to wall to make a roof,
and the shortest of the tall trees in the wood-
heap decided the width, just as the slowest
vessel decides the pace of a convoy.
The rain fell on the palace and disin-
tegrated it, and a time came when the royal
architect reported that, despite his best
efforts, the building was worn out. A long-
reign king was capable of wearing out two
palaces. As a rule the pyramid w r hich formed
the base was worn out also through the
moisture getting into the cracks. Then the
new structure was built, and the king and
the furniture and the roof were removed,
and the old residence dissolved into a mound
to be removed later or left alone. Some-
times it dissolved so hurriedly that the
king’s imperishable library was buried in
the basement. The writings were done on
sheets of fine clay—imported from a distance
and much too costly to build with —which
were afterwards baked hard. Barring break-
age they were immortal. So these docu-
ments of Mesopotamia are originals, while
the oldest-known Scripture is a copy, or
a copy of a copy, or a copy of a copy of a
copy, or the tenth great-grandson of a copy
—nobody knows. The age of the palace in
which Belshazzar gave his supper party is
a matter of speculation.
Nabonadius, the king, is variously de-
scribed. The general report is that he was
a learned and kindly gentleman with a pas-
sion for architecture and quite unfit for
stormy times. At all events Cyrus and his
robust Persians came down on him and his
army like a whirlwind, and the old man fell
to pieces and surrendered.
Babylonia had been to Assyria much as
Scotland was to England—not quite strong
enough to be completely independent, but
with too much of the wild cat about it to
be permanently conquered. At the time
Assyria passed out Babylon itself was a
heap of ruins through much war. Nebuchad-
nezzar, the great conqueror of whom we
know so little, rebuilt it, and being a mega-
lomaniac made it too big. There was room
for an army and a nation inside it, but they
weren’t inside it at the critical moment.
In fact, the architectural king had lost most
of them outside. The city was only about
50 or GO years old when Belshazzar spread
too few men around too much wall, and gave
the last feast and the last hop and the last
revel of the dynasty. Things looked bad,
but they had looked worse many times be-
fore, yet the wild-cat State had pulled
through. Nobody could tell that the jug
had gone to the well for the last time and
was hopelessly cracked.
The Lydian ally had been defeated. The
Egyptian ally was too late of arriving. In
fact, there was a report that the Egyptian
ally had gone off his head througn excite-
ment. Subject provinces were hurriedly
making terms with the enemy. Eminent per-
sonages were becoming scarce—in fact, one
object of the supper was to count the emi-
nent personages who were left. There was
still a line of retreat, but the situation be-
gan to look too much like a siege.
Then it was that the Hand appeared and
wrote in a foreign language on the wall. It
took a little while to bring along the king’s
secretary, interpreter, prophet and philo-
sopher all in one. who wasn’t present, and
whose absence had been commented on. And
he gave his reading thus: —
WEBSTER HAS LOST ALL THE MAIL-
BAGS AT ONCE.
RETREAT IS CUT OFF.
Belshazzar promoted the interpreter to
the short-lived honor of Bethmann-Holweg’s
billet, and made him chancellor and third
man in the kingdom, he himself being second.
There were signs and portents during the
last few hours of Babylon. The moon set
before its time, and it was the color of
blood, and the face of Nebuchadnezzar was
clearly seen on its disc. Meteors fell in
showers. Voices wailed over the house-
tops. The ghost of the prophet Samuel and
the Hound of the Baskervilles were seen
in the streets, also the spectre of Banquo
with his throat cut. A two-headed infant
was born of poor but honest parents. Also
graves opened and the sheeted dead per-
vaded the highways each carrying his coffin
under one arm and his tombstone under
the other. As the Persians swept into the
city over the d6bris of the feeble garrison
the post office fell with a crash.
How Belshazzar died is not known.
Neither is any record left of Webster who
lost the last bags of Babylon.
SOLOMON MALAPROP.
The Song of Rusty Hulls.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
mHE spars loom black and the red sun
droops,
-•*- And a grey song sobs from the har-
bor’s mouth ;
And the salt-greyed bowsprit staggers and
stoops
When the great gales press from the windy
south.
Blood-red rust on the seething strake,
Bust-red sun through the low sea haze,
And the brazen chorus the bronzed men wake,
Who thresh from the grim, green water-
ways.
Shrill red roofs of the teeming town
Held in a circle of dreaming trees,
And the creaking cable goes streaming down,
While the sails gleam white in the light
land breeze;
Bust-red hulls on,a grape-green bay,
Amber masts on the spiralled clouds,
And the airs drift out with the drifting day,
And the sea-songs cease in the topsail
shrouds.
Stark hulls lulled on the harbor’s knees,
Bare, dark hills on the red town glare,
And the brick-brown sailormen seeking ease
With the mouth full-cupped for the red
town fare ;
liot lips clinging to wine-red lips,
Swift, mad moving of life and lust,
And a big bay shadowed with silent ships,
And the glint of moon and the gleam of
rust.
Morn ! and the dawning of stalwart things.
When the anchor lifts to the heave and
pawl,
While the hard sou’-wester welters and sings
In the high cross-trees as the loosed sails
fall;
And the big sea surge and the blundering
whales,
And the thin high crake of the wheeling
gulls
Are bringing the magic of ocean tales
And singing the song of the rusty hulls.
N.S.W.
BOYCE BOWDEN.


til
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—o 3-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
niunidn
noA 3av
Have you grown tired of wearing' useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance tliat is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but cne THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS ? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW: it is,
in fact. TIIE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafiing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft nibber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY
FROM TIIE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
319 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
GOOD LOOKS
A good clear complexion has much to do with
success in life, especially for women—and for
men too. It appeals and fascinates
more than features. You can
always have “good looks”
if you take Carter’s
Little Liver Pills, for
the real source of a
healthy and spotless
face is an active
Liver. They cure
Biliousness, Con- 1
stipation, Sallow
Skin, Pimples and
df
CARTERS
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
L
Blackheads. In fact they make you better
looking. Safe for children.
Small Pill—Small Dose—Small Price,
GENUINE must
bear signature
zsd
m
Gifts for
Men
at Craig 8 Aitken’s,
The old established
Sydney Centre for
Shaving & Smokers’
Requisites.
Silver-plated Shaving
Stand, similar to illus-
tration, complete with
Brush. Prices: 23/6,
33/6, 36/-
Post Free.
Shaving Mug and
Brush, Silver-plated,
11/6, 14/6, 22/6.
Post Free.
Illustrated Folder of
Shavers 'and Smokers’
Requisites Post Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, ftvmwev
SYDNEY.
ORLICKS
MALTED
““"BNC
sa
is needed.
The Ideal Food-’
Drink(Milk, Wheat, 1
and Malt). Keeps'
for years and never 1
becomes stale or loses]
any of its admirable
qualities. It is made I
in a moment, any-/
where. Only water/
bot climates it is>
In
invaluable.
IVo Shortage. Ample .Supplies.
Stjgi
■=ju rs ttz
ÜB.IIO □□£}□□
Sit
MOTOR
LORRIES
it Satisfies the Hardest Taskmaster.
Government engineers scrutinise
every detail and every piece entering
into a lorry’s construction before
authorising its purchase. significant
then, that Governments should buy large
fleets of Denby lorries.
The reason? The Denby has the power without the
unsprung weight of the worm-driven lorries. Exceptional
road clearance makes hauling easy for the Denby over roads
impassable to other lorries.
Load capacities: 1,2, 2-|, 3|, 5 tons.
DENBY MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY.
Export Department, Singer Building, New York, U.S.A.
Cable Address: “Dentrux.”
TAKE
warning when the following symptoms make their appearance : —bilious-
ness, acidity, constipation, depression of spirits, flatulence, declining
appetite, headache, loss of energy, restlessness at night and heaviness
during the day. Generally speaking, these are indications that all is not
well with the digestive system. Take the necessary steps to remedy
matters. Before another day passes seek the assistance of
beegham's pills
which will speedily relieve these unpleasant feelings, generally due to
complications arising from a disordered stomach, and bring about a
radical change in the General Health. For many years this excellent
preparation has been universally acknowledged to be a first-class remedy
for digestive troubles. They improve the powers of nutrition and thus
enable the body to benefit to the full from the food taken. Anyone who
is at all troubled with ailments originating in derangement of the
stomach, liver and bowels is urgently advised to take Beeeham’s Pills
AND MARK THE DIFFERENCE !
Sold in boxes, labelled price 10id (36 pills), 1/li (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
REMINGTON UMC
Auto-loading
RIFLE.
A SPLENDID RABBIT RIFLE.
Smm
'„ i X if 1 ' v,
*■
; ' ->c ‘K’ ~~i*
: HO
SHOR
MODEL 24A, .22 Calibre, Solid Breech, Hammerless. Easily taken apart
and assembled, Chambered to fire the Ordinary Rim-fire .22 Cartridge.
MAGAZINE 'HOLDS 11 CARTRIDGES, all of which can be fired as
quickly as trigger can be pulled, without lowering Rifle from the shoulder.
Fitted with Safety Lock. Full directions attached to each rifle.
Weight, 4jlb. PRICE £5/10/-net. Postage or Carriag e extra.
Obtainable Retail from the following Sydney Firms:
MARCUS CLARK, LTD. J. p. KNIGHT.
COWLES & DUNN. P. LASSETTER & 00., LTD.
GRACE BROTHERS, LTD. NOCK & KIRBY, LTD.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LTD. MICK SIMMONS, LTD.
Also from Country Storekeepers.
WHOLESALE ONLY from following Sydney Firms:
ALDERSON’S, LTD. J. P. KNIGHT.
JOHN BROOMPIELD, LTD. NOYES BROTHERS, LTD.
PAUL &. GRAY, LTD.
Australian Representative - for the Manufacturers:—
D. D. BRYANT, Box 686 G.P.0., Melbourne.
GENERAL CATALOGUE MAILED FREE ON REQUEST.
/
! \
JM
r">JO
COLOA’
Zhii
Your First Shave
Begin shaving with a Colgate’s
"Handy Grip” of your own.
Your dad will tell you this is
the right soap to make smooth,
creamy, soothing lather and
help you to a comfortable shave
without any after-smarting.
You will like the "Handy Grip”
as well as you have always liked
the Ribbon Dental Cream—and
will never wish to be without either.
OLCATes
MP
r\
PPpy
•y Refill
St
on
mg
ICR.
SOLDIERS’ DIARIES.
THE Mitchell Library is desirous of pur-
chasing for the State Archives original
diaries of Australian Soldiers taking part
in, the Great War. Good prices will be
paid for good material. Address Mitchell
Library, Macquarie Street, Sydney.
For the Trustees.
W. H. IFOULD,
Principal Librarian and Secretary.
A LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
uCSI should read the British Australasian,
6d. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 115 High Holborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
IOUi
t ’Wire Strainer
0
Uj
Post Free
Thousands in Use.
Patented)
k *
tH,$
swss
Fig b
A-fv':'
iS
each
Post Free
With Full Particulars
and illustrated Circular.
The simplicity, lightness and excellence
. Dreadnought is fully maintained.
Titan Manufacturing Company.
Normctnby Road, SOUTH MELBOURNE.


NGROVIT
LEATHER
MAXIMUM POWER
is assured to power-plant owners who use
Mangrovite Leather or Rawhide Belting. It is
supreme in gripping power and being strong
and pliable it will stand up to the most
difficult drive.
Tanned by our Special Mangrovite process, it
is the belting par excellence.
Mangrovite Belting' Ltd.
(Charles Ludowioi, Managing: Director),
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), Sydney.
* Bt *? '?* CH>bs > Br 'S lht & Co., Fremantle
S th Australia : John Raid & Sons Ltd., Adelaide
Victoria and Tasmania: Wm. Crosby & Co.,
Melbourne.
TESTED AND PROVED BEST
Under the most severe conditions, cutting hard and soft woods,
An Eagle on a Globe” Circular Saws
have proved their superiority over all others.
J? Sheffield Eng., from highest-grade Double Extra Crucible
Steel, their quality is beyond doubt. e
Fifteen different styles ef teeth to select from. Standard
gauges and holes. From 4-inch diameter. Inquiries set
immediate attention when addressed to Desk “A.”
THE EAGLE & GLOBE STEEL CO. LTD.
™ a ™l! B pTUltra Capital High-Speed Steel,
379-381 Kent St., SYDNEY.
264 Latrobe St, Melbourne.
46 Boulder Rd., Kalgoo'rlle.
St., Fremantle.
John Reid & Nephews,
Brisbane.
Charles Atkins & Co. Ltd.,
„ . . Adelaide.
Paul & Cray Ltd., Newcastle.
" 5 % W jTI
oh
S.FRMi.
Chemicals?
We always have large stocks on hand and our
prices are absolutely the lowest. Our stocks
include:—•
Soda-Ash, Caustic Soda, Chloride of
Calcium, Sulphide of Sodium, Chloride
of Ammonium, Naphthaline, Carbolic
Acid (98% pale straw), Bichromate
Soda and Potash, French Chalk, Dex-
trine, Aniline Dyes, Ilematine and
Fustic Extracts. Large quantities of
Whale, Cod and Herring Oil always on
hand.
Write for prices and particulars NOW.
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
’Phone 8456 (6 Lines).
581-3 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
3O Currie Street, Adelaide.
SHaafeft®
Patented
The use of OIL CUPS instead of GREASE
CUPS on all kinds of Petrol Motors is greatly
on the increase.
The advantages of using a well-designed OIL
CUP are obvious.
It can be operated with the oil-can and there
is no handling a messy grease.
There is no part to shake loose and
drop off through vibration, conse-
quently no failure to lubricate.
*AT
cr
m
SWANS LTD.,
304 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The House for Motor
Engineers’ Supplies.
£
The. mere placing of oil in the cup ensures the
lubricant reaching its destination. An Oil
Cup being only a conveyor and not a
reservoir of lubricant, it is much less bulky -in
size and therefore less liable to injury. The
best designed of this class of goods are
THE NEW SELF-CLOSING
SPRING-LID STEEL OIL CUPS
and, as the illustrations show, they
are made for all usual and unusual
positions.
We have them in the following sizes:
-m,
fife
■
"t
•V**
Dalg'ety’s Pumping Outfits
GIVE BEST SERVICE.
PUMPS.—AII classes in stock for pumping from Wells, Bores, Rivers
and Creeks for House and Stock supply, Irrigation, etc. Also
attachments for converting windmills to power drive.
ENGINES.—Our Engines are specially reliable, and are in , great
demand for driving Pumps, Shearing Machines, Chaff cutters, Cir-
cular Saws, etc. We can supply either “Triumph,” “Star” or
“Tangye Oil” or Benzine Engines. Also E.R.B. Farm Pump
Engines, with Pumping Jack for converting Mills and pumping
from wells, etc. Illustration shows Triumph Oil Engine driving Centrifugal Pump
DALGETY (El CO. LTD., Miller’s Point, Sydney.
Agents for Wolscley Shearing Machines, Gane Milking Machines, etc., etc.
SHEEP
■ Shearing Machines
Mean Economy to You.
It is not so much what Shearing Machines cost to buy—it is what they
cost afterwards to repair which makes them a good or bad investment.
With the Wolseley, repair bills are cut to a minimum—that is Why hundreds
of users vouch for
their economy.
Enquire at the local
branches.
Dalgety 8 Co. Ltd.
Australasian Agents: All Branches.
fz
New Tools for the Busy Engineers’ Shop
sd
&
Portable ELECTRIC
Hand and Breast Drills
Heavy Duty Drills
Tool Post Grinders
Bench Grinders
h
fzs
No trouble in starting up—you can get your Power from any Lamp Socket, either Direct or Alternating Current.
Indispensable to the shop interested in Cost Reduction. Call and inspect, or write to-day for full particulars.
PARKE ®. LACY CO. LTD.,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence St., Sydney, N.S.W.
The Fly Plague this Summer
will be particularly dangerous, according to the
MINISTER FOR HEALTH.
The most obvious as well as certain Line of Defence is to destroy the larvae and their food in one of the
GUTHRIDGE GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
These may be seen, and all particulars obtained, at the office of G. MOORE, 2nd Floor,
Equitable Building, Sydney; or at the Factory, 10 George Street, Camperdown.
V
5
if
$
N. GUTHRIPGE LTD.,
SOLE MANUFACTURERS
AND PATENTEES,
10-12 George Street, Camperdown, SYDNEY.
