

DEWAR’S —The Spirit of Harmony.
will prevent that
Iron Roof from Rusting'.
Pabco Paint is made specially for Iron Roofs and Metal Surfaces, and is an extremely
profitable investment.
It affords an elastic, adhesive protective coating against either heat-expansion
or cold-contraction; is anti-corrosive and exceptionally durable.
Full particulars mailed post free on request.
The Paraffine Companies Inc. (F. M. Prince, Australasian Manager), Chains
House, Sydney.
R. Q. WATKINS £Z> CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 .Kleilt Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE
MONEY
ON EASY
TERMS
ON ALL CLASSES OF SECURITY
WITHOUT POSSESSION.
NS W MONT de PIETE
D $ I C9Y LIMITED.
74 Casllereagh St.74.Sydney
CAPITAL &200.000 ‘Fhcme Cit,y 9325
flraocAej Jt- 29 King St.. Newcastle .N-S W-71517 Swanston SiHei^-Vic
40 Adelaide St.,srisbane.Q. I 97 A Castlereagh St., 159 George St. West, Sydney.
Joseph W Hill. Acting General Manager.
n
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not be laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete D. and I. Co. Ltd.”
“CHROMOL
(Trade 'Mark)
The Super Driving Beit.
The largest mining and smelt-
ing plants use “Chromol,” because
of its proven superiority over all
other Belting.
Sole Makers:
J.C.LudowiciSSon Ltd.
Pioneer Leather Belting Works,
117 York Street, Sydney
Pioneers and Leaders since 1858.
THE BEST !
t?
m
0?
wm
mm
m
a
£2
n
ea
w
nd
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doc tots us being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
L
HANSEN’S
TABLETS
Por INDIGESTION
anti DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
■
I
&
v\\\\s
A new and revised edition of the
“ Referee ” is now available,
and will be sent post free on
application to
JOHN LYSAGHT (Australia) LIMITED
8 Spring Street, SYDNEY,
SYv« e * s
the recognised standard
of quality throughout
the Commonwealth
BEAVER STOUT (Guinness).
ORME, KEIGWIN 08. CO. I*Tl>.. SYDNEY Solm ARenf.
Lancashire Electric Motors
Generators, Boosters, Balancers, Motor Generators, etc.
have a world-wide reputation for dependability. They are powerfully built of carefully-selected and tested materials by the most skilled British work-
men. Regular stock of Lancashire motors from M to 100 H.P. alternating and direct current for all standard Voltages. Estimates submitted for Indi-
vidual machines or for complete installations, regardless of size.
Special Booklets dealing with Lancashire Self-starting Synchronous Motors, and Three-Phase Induction Motors will be forwarded on request.
NOYES BROS.
(SYDNEY) LTD., 115 Clarence Street, Sydney.
(MELBOURNE) PTY., LTD., 499-501 Bourke Street, Melbourne; and Darling Building, Adelaide.
X. R. W. GARDAM, Perth. CHAS, E. BERNAYS, 125 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
[*.849
OPALOID
TOOTH PASTE
Used Every Day
Prevents Decay.
DFG
Make NO mistake— -the “PAVILION,” Circular Quay, is the most popular establishment in Sydney for Luncheons, Afternoon Teas, Dinners and After-Theatre Suppers. Orchestral performances at all meals.
The Bulletin
Vol. 40.—N0. 2071.
Thursday, October 23, 1919.
PRICE 6<L
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, lor Tranamission by Post as a Newspaper.


BEFORE THE MIRROR
By “JEANNETTE.”
" These are, undoubtedly, days of exceptional nervous strain for one and
all of us. Anxiety, with its beauty-destroying influence, is casting its shadow
over the lives of many of us women, and while perhaps a few—the more
stoical among us —can avoid worrying over past and prospective events we
may all, with a little care and forethought, succeed in preventing the results
of worry from being noticeable in our appearance. To these fortunate
few this little chat will, however, be as interesting and instructive as to
those who stand in real need of help in toilet matters, and may be the
means of bringing to their notice some hitherto unknown method of retain-
ing or regaining that beauty of face and figure which is the birthright of
every woman.. Some of the ingredients mentioned below are, at present, not
generally known to the public, but any good chemist will usually be found to
have a small quantity in stock.
.-V Beautiful Complexion by Natural Means.—
The secret of a perfect complexion lies in the
continual renewing of the outer cuticle of the
skin. This is Nature’s own method. The
outer skin as it becomes coarse or shrivelled
must be removed, and an opportunity given
to the finer one beneath to show itself. It is
because the old, dead skin is allowed to re-
main on the face that so many women, and
even young girls, suffer from pimples,
blotches and sallow dull skins. To remove, by
absorption, the dead outer skin, and with it
all blemishes, the use of mercolized wax is
universally recommended, ordinary face
creams being powerless for this purpose.
Smear the wax over the face and neck, rub it
gently into the skin, and leave it on all night.
In the morning Wash it off, using Pilenta
soap and warm water, when all the dead skin
will be removed with the wax. Then apply a
lotion to prevent any trace of greasiness
being noticeable and to give a peach-like
bloom to the skin. A lotion to do this can be
made up quite cheaply from the following
recipe: Take one ounce of cleminite and dis-
solve it in four tablespoonfuls of hot water.
Place in a bottle, and when cool apply to the
face with the fingertips, allowing it to dry on
the skin.
To Remove Blackheads.—Dissolve one effer-
vescing sty mol tablet in a glass of hot water,
allow the effervescence to subside, then dip a
small sponge into the liquid and mop over the
tace. Allow it to remain on for a few min-
utes. then wipe off with a towel, and the
blackheads will be entirely removed. To pre-
vent them from re-appearing, use a stvmol
tablet in the manner described twice a week.
How to Shampoo.—Before shampooing the
hair dip the fingers into a little pure olive or
almond oil, and thoroughly massage the scalp.
Then dissolve a teaspoonful of stallax granules
m a cup of hot water. Fill a basin with warm
water into which the ends of the hair can
fall, and shampoor the stallax mixture into the
roots in the usual way. Then rinse and dry
by fanniug with a palm fan.
Grey Hair.—To restore the color of grey or
fading hair, take two ounces of concentrated
taramalite, and mix it with three ounces of
bay rum: apply to the hair for several nights,
using a small sponge, and the hair will grad-
ually resume its original color. When the
desired shade has been obtained, the tamnia-
lite lotion should be used about twice a week.
Apply it to the roots with an old toothbrush
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
TO WHITEN A BROWN NECK (W.K.).—To
whiten your neck, use jettaline. Get a tube
of this from the chemist and rub a little well
into the skin of the neck; leave it on till next
morning. Do this regularly every night for
three or four weeks, and you will find that
the skin will become beautifully clear and
white.
BABY.—You need not lose your pretty com-
plexion. Get dt tin of mercolized wax, and
rub a little well into the face every night.
This well remove the dead outer skin and
reveal the pretty fresh new skin underneath.
Be careful what soap you use, as this is very
important. I should suggest Pilenta.
MATER.—To reduce yourself to your original
weight, get a packet of clynol berries and eat
four daily, one after each meal and one at
bedtime. When once you have returned to
your normal weight you can discontinue
them, as the cure is permanent and not merely
temporary, as so many others are. There is
no need to make any alteration in your diet.
DISAPPOINTED.—I am not surprised that
you have been disappointed in your hair: you
are not .using a suitable shampoo. Get u
packet of stallax and shampoo the hair every
fortnight with this. It will make it soft and
keep it fair.
NELLIE.—There is nothing more disastrous
to beauty than superfluous hair. In that you
are right, but you are wrong in thinking that
there is no permanent cure. Get an ounce of
powdered pherainol and a tube of tekko paste.
These two, used in conjunction, will perma-
nently remove tire growth.
GERTIE.—The lotion to which you refer is
made as follows: Get an ounce of clerninite
and mix it with four ounces of warm water.
Allow it to cool, bottle, and dab over the face,
allowing it to dry on the skin. This is far
superior to powder, and gives a fresh bloom
to the facfe without the appearance of make up.
MAISIE.—Yes. the longer your eyelashes Ihe
larger and brighter your eyes will look. To
increase the growth of the lashes rub a little
mennaline into the roots every night. Do this
very gently, but thoroughly, and you will be
delighted with the result. [2
Perils ai
Arabia,
Mystery in
8
tymouw
Uf)e
BLACK STONE,
by
George Gibbs,
Author of “The Golden Bough,” “The
Yellow Dove.”
“The story is well told; the Oriental setting is
skilfully suggested; there are excellent descrip-
tions of Cairo life, its harems and its congested
bazaars and religious processions. Probably the
best-drawn character is Dawson, Jessup’s valet,
imperturbable and self-effacing, but in every
emergency a man of supreme thought and action.”
—Melbourne Age.
Take a copy home. You will enjoy it.
PRICE 5/-; POSTED 5/4.
YOUR BOOKSELLER Has It
or from
MELVILLE & MULLEN PTY., LTD.,
Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOLDIERS’ DIARIES.
THE Mitchell Library is desirous of pur-
chasing for the State Archives original
diaries of Australian Soldiers taking part
in ; the Great War. Good prices will be
paid for good material. Address Mitchell
Library, Macquarie Street, Sydney.
For the Trustees.
W. H. IFOULD,
Principal Librarian and Secretary.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
. should read the British Australasian,
6d. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 115 High Holborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
AFRAID OF FOOD.
Sufferers from Indigestion very often become faddists as regards their food, and find
themselves in time reduced to a very meagre and unsatisfying diet. Hudson’s Eumenthol
Jujubes correct acidity of the stomach, and their antiseptic properties prevent abnormal
fermentation of the food, thus allowing the
natural digestive ferments to act, and if
taken regularly after meals they so improve
the digestion that a strict diet becomes
unnecessary. Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
are most useful to those who. suffer from
Heartburn, Flatulence and Dyspepsia.
Sold Everywhere, Tins 1/6
Recommended by the Medical World, viz.:
The Lancet, The Pbactitioner, etc. [g
tA.T-zS
**********
wMstAi. SMarm'tws
HUDSON
The Red Page
A Great Good Man in a Muckheap
That is the summary of The Life of Theo-
dore Roosevelt by Hermann Hagedorn. The
fact that President Roosevelt was big and
honest and patriotric has been generally
accepted, though he lias also been regarded
as an ideographic poseur. His biographer
goes further and paints him as a super-man,
a gigantic reformer of abuses and an un-
paralleled remover of dirt>' Even the biggest
sort of man can r t remove dirt and sin and
offal unless there are such things to be
removed, and the United States must have
been Sodom and Gomorrah to give Roose-
velt a chance to do all he is said to have
done. There have been cases in plenty where
a big man could do such work without cast-
ing discredit on Eis own people in general.
Garibaldi and Mazzini made war in Italy
on the sins and < shames of the Austi’ian
ruler. Danton and his friends weren’t
obliterating the sins of the French nation
but of the small caste of hereditary
aristocrats. But the United States, at
the end of last century, was a free
and, in a very wide sense, a self-
governing country. And if Roosevelt found
so much rottenness to remove, then the
United States people were so unfit for self-
government that they had let their self-
governing privileges slip into the hands of
a gang of criminals. Possibly the biographer
has exaggerated to some extent and pre-
sented his hero as a giant removing imaginary
offal.
Roosevelt had no early struggles. He
came of a rich old Dutch family which dated
back to the time when New York was New
Amstei'dam, and before the time of the May-
flower and the Puritans and the witch-hunts
and other celebrated things. Yet he was
strenuous from his boyhood and took to New
York State politics at the age of 23. But it
was when he became Pqlice Commissioner of
New York at 37 that his work really com-
menced. That was in 1895, and apparently
there wasn’t then one honest man in New
York —except Roosevelt, of course—and the
goings-on would have made a Turkish pasha
of the old school flee out of Damascus lest
the wrath of God should fall on it
and he be killed. The city was, so
Roosevelt’s panegyrist indicates, run by
drunkards, thugs, thieves, publicans, per-
jurers and Flossies, all in fine raiment
and with an outward varnish of re-
spectability. It was so corrupt that it
didn’t know it was corrupt, just as a dog
doesn’t know he is a dog. One detail con-
cerns a policeman who, by mistake, enforced
some local by-law against a drink-seller who
had a “pull.” He was, as a matter of course,
being rushed off to penal servitude on a
false charge as a warning to others when
Roosevelt rescued him.
After the Cuban campaign, in which
Theodore’s tactics seem to have been brave
but mixed, he became governor of the State
of New York. In these higher places he
again reformed manfully. Offal was as
numerous there as in municipal affairs. The
stench was awful, yet people were so aban-
doned in the nose that they hardly knew
there was a stench till it was pointed out.
That left a grand opening for the reformer.
But it was a poor sort of community that
required so much soleing and heeling.
He served two terms as President, and was
kept busy shifting graft, pollution, hypocrisy
and every kind of unpleasantness. He
shovelled away vulgar sin and the coarser
forms of vice all day and far into the night.
Then, feeling that gome speck of decency
had come into public affairs, he procured the
selection of the other Reliable big honest man
that the country possessed—Taft—as his
successor, and went for a holiday in Africa
to get a breath of pure air among the lions.
In Africa he was a great success. He was
also a great success in Europe on his return
journey and a bigger nran than kings. And
when he came home again the Great Heart
of the people came out in its best Sunday
clothes to welcome him.
He found that Taft, the one other honest
man, had drifted the old way, and that the
country had gone Sodom-and-Gomorrahing
as soon as his back was turned. He became
a candidate for President again but was
defeated by Wilson. Then a mean-spirited
folk, with nro appreciation of great service
and with no chivalrous sentiment towards
splendid failure—a crowd which worshipped
success and kicked the under-dog—turned
and jeered at him. In fact, he had scarcely
a friend left.
During his eclipse the war came, and the
mighty voice of Roosevelt, the unquenchable,
was lifted up everywhere against the 'general
sentiment that truth and honor and human-
ity and civilisation could go hang so long as
the dollars came in. When the insensate
Hun cut off the dollars by his unrestricted
submarine warfare, the nation grew enraged
in the pocket and went to war; but Roose-
velt stood practically alone in demanding
that the Freedom of the world should count
for more than dross. Even the Statue of
Liberty didn’t back him up, nor did the
Declaration of Independence or the ghost
of Washington. Then he died—not old but
worn out, and went to Abraham’s Bosom.
He has doubtless washed it by this time.
United States biography and fiction teems
with stories or possibly lies about the wonder-
ful reformer who cleaned up Hell, the U.S.
apparently being Hell. And apparently the
hog goes back to his wallow very promptly
so that he may be reformed over again. It
suggests the case of the converted Jew, very
common in Palestine, who is the stock-in-
trade of a long series of missionaries. Tam-
many Hall in New York, for instance, has
been reformed or obliterated as often as any
institution on earth, and after 130 years that
world-famous centre of corruption which
dates from Washington is in as good work-
ing condition as ever. The pearl of reform
is cast before swine, but whereas the pearl is
occasional the swine is peynanent. That is
the moral of the Roosevelt biography.
(Harrap publisher: copy from Australasian
Publishing Co.. Sydney.)
Verse at Thirteen
The verse that follows is the remarkable
performance of Patricia Francis, a 13-year-
old girl of North Queensland. The family
lives almost isolated from the world—you can
get to the Francis home via Cooktown —but
the children have had the advantage of being
educated in her own. way by a literary
mother, the writer of much dainty verse.
(And har mother wrote good verse, too.) :
TO AN ENTHUSIAST.
Bold, subtle soul, that ever soars and sings,
And clear young mind, whose bright imaginings
Build golden circles of the years to be,
And hold the stars in proud captivity!
For you Fear has no sway, and Hope has wings
To carry you to sunny heights of Fame
That are not only in those dreams that came
Out of the deep fire-kingdoms of your soul,
But dreams materialised, as fumes that roll
Forth from the furnace turn to finer flame.
Now though your Night is drawing near your Day
To light her lamps, then robe the world in grey,
You carry still the laughter of your Dawn;
And though the limits of your life are drawn
Close by, your feet set on the Western Way,
Your young heart smiles at Death and-all defeat.
To you the years stretch far and fair and sweet.
Through work your eager spirit gained such wealth
Of fleet-winged energy and boundless health,
Earth, Life and Death are all beneath your feet.
L. PATRICIA FRANCIS.
Applying a Bequest
This community awaits with considerable
interest the action of the University of
Sydney in its application of the McCaugliey
bequest. There are various directions in
which the University" might break new
ground, but the most immediate need of
Australia is an abundant supply of indus-
trial chemists. Modern industry in the Com-
monwealth demands a tariff. Itaw materials
we have, wealth we have, and we have, or
shall have, ample labor. But the industrial
chemist who unlocks the secret processes of
manufacture is sadly lacking here. And
without him we shall never adequately de-
velop our secondary industries, so shockingly
neglected up to date. In an industrially
active community a multiplicity of new open-
ings are offered to the youth of the country
with, in many instances, exceptional material
rewards, and of these openings the study of
industrial chemistry is perhaps the best;
and to follow some problem of chemistry to
a successful conclusion is probably as in-
teresting a pursuit as the study of law or
medicine. If those are right who forecast
immense and immediate manufacturing de-
velopments in Australia, then the University
should lead the new movement, and be pre-
pared to supply from its graduates the
chemistry specialists needed in the labora-
tory of any and every manufacturer.
And something more might, perhaps, be
done for literature. But this is not such an
easy matter, so much depending on the per-
sons available to teach literature —that is,
as far as it can be taught. A considerable
number of years ago, when Kipling was a't
his best, University students were told in a
lecture that he was the greatest English
poet since Marlow, and in another lecture
one of their guides stated that Meredith was
only less than Shakspeare. We cannot, of
course, hope to get in Australia a man like
the Professor of English Literature at Cam-
bridge, Sir A. Quiller-Couch. But probably
in all England a man so well equipped for
the position could not be found, either,
mainly because he has found for himself
the secret of style, and so knows what are
the essential things in prose and poetry.
His University addresses are altogether ad-
mirable, and the generation pf students
privileged to have such wise and graceful
guidance in a. field where it is so easy to go
astray are privileged beyond the lot of most
students of literature. But even Quiller-
Couch has his aberrations, mainly due
apparently to personal predilections and pre-
judices. George Meredith appears to have
made an extraordinary impression upon his
contemporaries. A local instance has been
cited, and i n “Studies in Literature” Quiller-
Couch furnishes another almost as remark-
a,ble - He is talking of Meredith’s “Love in
the Valley,’’and remarks: “I hold that with
bpensers ‘Epithalmion’ it shares claim to
be the greatest song of human love in our
language, as it is certainly the topmost of
its age; all that Swinburne or Rossetti ever
wrote fading out like fireworks or “sick
tapers before its sunshine.” Before the
gloiy of a poem comparable to “sunshine”
even the living flame of Swinburne’s glorious
harmonies would doubtless look like a “sick
a P er> ht ll *" Quiller-Couch is able to com-
pare Meredith’s carefully manufactured
poem (it is surely wrong to call it a “song”)
with sunshine,” others are not similarly
impressed. Of course this may be due to
defective vision. The “sunshine” may be
there, but is it? Examine this verse -
Wien her mother tends her before the laughing
mirror, ® s
Tying up her laces, looping up her hair,
Often she thinks, were this wild thing wedded,
Jf r ? re i° Ve I have and much less care.
When her mother tends her before the" lighted mirror.
Loosening her laces, combing down her curls,
Often she thinks, were this wild thing wedded,
I should miss but one for the many boys and girls.
Now-, this might very well have been said in
prose. In fact, but for the mechanical form
there is nothing in it but prose. Fancy
bwinburne writing this verse! Tennyson
perhaps, in his “Pretty Miss Alfred,” might
have woven such verbal lingerie, but cer-
tainly not when his powers matured. Mere-
dith may be a poet (I am not sure), but it
is certain he Is not a poet as Swinburne
was a poet. Evidently, besides being an
esteemed contemporary, Meredith must have
something more, probably a close friend
of Quiller-Couch ; but even loyalty to a friend
would not justify a professor in leading a
whole University astray in its standards of
poetical values. There is evidence, too, that
Meredith disliked Swinburne’s personality.
He dwells overmuch on the man, and too
SJS? °° the Bat, on the whole, his
judgments are desirable and discerning, and
e leads his students with unerring taste to
the realisation of the essentials of poetry.
His opinions are distinguished by freedom
(Continued on page 24.)


we
n
4" y M
§
m
w
WSB
Do Your Clothes
Wear Well?
A SUIT is no stronger than its foundation. Behind the “good
looks”—behind the shapely lines, clean-cut build and
masterly finish of Anthony Horderns’ Suits, there is—
the inner, structure of solid worth.
Faithful, painstaking attention to the unseen vital parts
enables the Suits mentioned here to resist wear and keep their
pleasing appearance right to the end.
Yet the prices are most moderate.
THE FAMOUS “PALACE” SUIT,
as shown here,
has 3-button-front coat, medium lapel, outside breast pocket, two
outside pockets with flaps, centre seam, with or without vent.
Vest has medium opening and four pockets. Trousers have plain
or turned-up bottoms.
PRICES :
In Cotton Tweed
In Grey Colonial Tweed, medium and dark shades..
English and Australian Tweeds, dark shade designs
Fancy Worsteds, smart stripe and check effects ....
Fox’s Rough Serge, Indigo Dye
Fine Rib Navy Serge, Indigo Dye
5O-
/ and 70/-
84/-, 95/-, 105/-, 110/-
.. 105/-, 115/-, 126/-
lOO-
/ 147/-
Coot, Lightweight
Sommer
Underwear
Select your UNDERWEAR with the same careful
discrimination. Anthony Horderns’ offer you reputable
makes, specially designed with open, porous weaves for
the warm days. There is a pleasant softness and
elasticity, also, that ensures perfect comfort.
PRICES:
X9.—“WORSEY” all-wool Underwear, fashioned in WOUSEY
Pure Wool, Unshrinkable. Light Summer Weight.
Undershirts, —■
Sizes 34in. 36in. 3Sin.
17/3 17/6 18/6
Underpants— 18/- 18/6 19/-
Xll. —“MERIDIAN” Underwear.
Undershirts,
Sizes 34in. 36in.
8/6 8/9
Underpants (ankle-length) — 8/9 8/9
PYJAMAS.
40in. 42in.
19/- 19/9
19/6 20/6
40in. 44in.
9/9 10/9
The “Palace” Pyjamas, in stout Oxford weaves, smart
designs. Correctly-litting, roomy design. 15/6 per suit.
*
4
5:
-=3F
DFG
MEN’S UMBRELLAS.
Xl2. —With Cotton Cover,
7/6, 8/6, 9/6 each.
Laventeen Cover, 11/6 each.
Silk Mixture Cover,
15/6 to 33/6 each.
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Lid..
ONLY UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS. NEW PALACE EMPORIUM.
BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
Cl.
XU.
“MEN’S MATTERS”
—the catalogue of
Men’s Wear—free
for the asking.


0?
h
ItijniiiiiimlinjiliiiJiiiHmiflWaffliaif*"?
as .
e
on
HAPPY HOMEY
a
05 FFf
<2
E>'ll meels &r\ old Friend
II
,11W) been, saving up for A irip io Sydney &at last ike day came
for Kim & ike little missus io wave an. av-revoir io ike fsrm. . It was tkeir
first visit to ike great metropolis, &> tke days were filled witk tke wonder
d> ike never ending magic of tke skopa & traffic tke karbor trips &
Ikealrea Tke day before tkey reft for Rome Bill met a ooy-kood
rtend wko long ago K.ad left ike Ouiei courvity' town & prospered in tke city.
3ill stgly introduced bus wife & accepted an invitation to kis old friends kome
for dinner & a yarn about old daya wkerv tkey were kids pi about Ike creeks
6 gullies. . . After dinner wKilsi ike men were amoking . 'Bill was suddenly
arrested by a beautiful voice singing. Xkai ike wife ?"ke aske d. Lord'.Nol 'laugked
dim "Tkais my kSalonola. Mary doesn't sing a note but were boik passionately
fond of music Come into tke drawing-room & we'll put on some of your favorites, or
wouldyou ralker Rave a game of billiards?" ‘Billiards! Here? said Bill OR yes!
Hits ©ray
IKiml
ES 6kt
Mums®
roue®.
s//m\ n ui
l!ini3r»'W{2J
8
j
\
y=
V\
SS
e/he College Billiard Evble
r,.
(6
&
Lve. ,nol o C-Qiioo>e
Billiard dsble, TmLy
fun. for iKe
evenings ,<oi Kome.
Come on. 11l
hundred up & we con
lislenio lide music
oi ike some fime-
rhexis Caruso sirvn
: mn rvow."
‘C3osh. r soid Bill.
M
3
CA:>TL.ER£ACH y\
Heir on
SKITH
-TTninffunmir-
'A
r\
Eevrly Customers
czhiaipitiebs. o
PlFlhe evening, passed very k&ppily for E>ill & ike Lillie
& over a lasi oig>ar Bill said —You know Jim: lm thinking, of
tke liiile Rome were back to &Kow Quiet if will seem..
Quieier ihan ever now after this evenings oui kere. lwiak I had
your luck Jim. 6 could have a JLalonola <& aCollate. Billiard
Table, but fortunes are not easily ma'de try the bush"
Fortune nothing! said Jim 1 havrit g,ot a. fortune but by my fore-
siohi I have 62 weeks a year of musical, entertainment s, a game
of billiards whenever Lwanl il & it costs me 2/«L _a week,
for each. E>ill was "Whal 11 Tell me'"
“Wkv.Heiron. & Smith ofcourse Funked Jim "for ike
dedonola or the Cottage Billiard Table can. be secured for
Q/€t> deposit & 2/6 weekly . "Wonderful isnt it ?" ? TW suib
me." said kill, 'Doyou ikink ihej/Jl have aiy left Anyfow
me & tke missus will be there before .they open, in the.
morning , £> that litlle home of ours is to be
TRe Jlappiesi Home in Bushland.”
i TP.TPnir .<nxir,m?TF
YOU may have a’Ebill visit you some day.-A relumed
Soldier. — A neighbour who is lonely 1 Why not make an four
or Iwo happier for ihem.i Ike wkole year' happier for your
Selves? Come in <s see us, or write.Heiroh. & Omiih
about Dke & Dhe Billiard Table
!tao=
HI
c/Ke Home in Buiklorvcl,
"Write /or
Fall Particularso/Our
Cpttage Billiard Table
and.
Qfe SAI?iSF?L A
fleiror\.@vsmlfl\B
In tHe Front Ranfe lor Home Entertainments
Phone 4097‘ 6417*7870. Free Demonstrations Daily ■ Showrooms open, till 9pm Fridays
• ABcwrooms • -
214 Sidney.
5°7*59 Queen St Brisbane, i
<O6 Garcdei PI Adelaide, j
/p.


DF
ih^B
&
&
%
%
S
Lonaclot/vy
GDFGDF
THE. WORLD'S
BEST VALUE
(
G
BRISBANE’S LEADING HOTEL
DF
GD
The last word in comfort.
Convenient to Theatres,
G.P.0., Rail, and all tram
routes
THE GRESHAM
BRISBANE
T. M. AHERN, Prop.
MARTIN’S PILLS
are sold by all chemists and stores. Ladies
recommend them. Be sure you get the
genuine with the signature:
MARTIN, Chemist, Southampton, England
Where to Stay when Visiting Sydney
Cronulla Beach Hotel.
Direction Cronulla Hotel, Ltd.
Healthy, Invigorating SURFING Resort.
Tel., Kogarah 19. Week-ends a Specialty.
J. A. GRANT, Manager.
AGNES PLATT,
4 Manchester St., London, W. England.
Advice given on plays, novels, cinemas.
Manuscripts placed. Plays produced.
Correspondence course in stage, novel
ahd cinema technique.
HorUck’s Malted Milk contains
all requisite forms of nourish-
ment. That is what make 9
Horlick’s so rich —so delicious.
If you have not yet tried Hor-
lick’s, there is a great treat in
store for you.
HORUCKS
MALTED MILK
**fTs IWVM-
g?v<oTa^
£
h
]Vo Shortage. Ample Supplies.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years, also a wonderful
Cure for Rheumatism.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/3 per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l/2/-. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD !
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
mmm
■
sag
???<
i mm
m
VS.y
mm
(OSA)
Al
iQm
WZ
arMiw ess 'ifc'Mf''
mz
Neglige {Thirty
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
Give pleasure to every
man, They are correct
in style, excellent in °
design, and impart the
coni/orfr that is so °°
necessary to se wa
contentment.
Alexander Steward Sons l! d
Makers - Brisbane.
Procurable
ia^all o
up-to-date
Suburb
department
%
*
©
w)7m
tSUk
©•
>S« 75 I
t. '■-'//
&
m
m
FGD
. «
Au4TR*UAN
r o i
m
, I
Aoe*”
? l.RoWC*r 4ob
Baiumi .ffUiww^Vj
kiv
■
The King of Table Waters
Once 3'ou have sampled it you will be enthusiastic over it.
You will be glad to recommend it to your friends. Eoomah
is rich in curatives, containing lime, soda, lithia and
. magnesia.
TRY A
GLASS
WITH
A SLICE
OF
LEMON.
Agents—
E. ROWLANDS
PTY. LTD.,
Purveyors to
Vice-Koyalty.,
Melbourne,
Ballarat,
Sydney and
Katoomba.
This brand on a pipe means QUALITY.
Keep it in mind —and when next you need
a pipe ask for this famous British make.
The PERFECT PIPE!
I s
Many popular shapes.
Obtainable everywhere.
is
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Honeymoon Hills.
The sun that swoooned upon the hills,
The hills of Sassafras,
In the hush that came with the close ot day,
Flamed red like the blushes of love at play,
As over the hills we made our way,
High hills of Sassafras.
The stars that hovered o’er the hills,
The hills of Sassafras,
Seemed like confetti afloat in air,
Or meshed in the strands of a girl s dark
hair; .
And oh, but. my love, my love was lair
’Midst hills of Sassafras!
The moon that hung above the hills,
The hills of Sassafras,
As the throat of my dear was round and
white;
And brimmed, like the goblet of love s delight,
It spilt its wine on the breast of night
And hills of Sassafras.
The mists of morn that veiled the hills,
Grey hills of Sassafras, .
Were as the sighs that we paused to sigh
When a rose showed faint in the bastioned
sky,
And, the honeymoon o’er, we bade good-bye
To hills of Sassafras.
VICTORIA.
HARRISON OWEN.
The Man I Met.
I met him by the sagging tide—
Two woeful men were we.
Twin vagrant souls; nor might confide
For fear our sympathy
Should hurt our pride—drab down-and-outs.
We scarecrows clad in dirty clouts. . . .
Yet Cod Almighty knows that he,
And Christ knows that I speak for me—
We starved for each soul’s charity. .. •
We turned from where our steps had led.
Poor hian ! 1 hope that he is dead.
N.S.W.
JOHN BARR.
Simone.
Simone in the doorway, as calm and un-
stirred ,
As the lustre that burns on the silk ot her
Close-hatted, snug-coated, all muffled and
furred
To the little pink tip of a velvet nose.
So straight in the doorway she stands, so
slim and so clear, ,
So surprisingly young, so incredibly dear.
Why should I wonder at seeing her there?
Save that 1 thought, and remember it yet,
That sometime, and somehow, sbmewhere.
She had stood so, and looked so, and smileu
in a life I forget.
N.S.W.
KEÑETH SLESSOR.
Residential.
She had a flat across the way from mine;
A flat so-called—a room and balcony.
With a dark space she called a kitchenette.
Her brow was broad and white, and silky
fine , . _ ,
The brown hair crinkled by the wind and
And I recall her eyes, like violets, dew-wet.
And she was neither short nor very tall,
But slimness clothed in hawthorn-blossom
skin; ,
And her round cheeks had caught the wild-
rose gleam. . .
She lived across the shiny-linoed hall;
Unheeded she went out or entered m
Flotsam adrift upon the city’s stream.
O little girl across the narrow hall,
O lonely heart, how could I feel you beat,
O eyes, tear-wet, how could I hear you call
Above the tumult of the city street/
How could I know you had been left outside
The gates which guard all girlhood s
lilting ways, , ,
When to my first glad hail they had swung
wide , ~
To love-lit nights and laughter-linked
days?
I would have caught a star in lilied lips
* That float upon a lake which the white
moon
Caresses with her quivering finger-tips
To the deep rhythm that the gold-stars
croon.
I would have stolen from a silver beach
That hour of dawn when waves are still
I would have rifled from the highest reach
The bud that blows in laughter ot the
noon.
Oh, all the magic of the singing grass.
Oh, all the music of the winds that blow,
The rainbows that the storms leave as they
pass,
And all the sweetness of the gods I know —
These had I brought to tapestry your day
Till that fine song of courage that you
sang
Through life’s last arch a paean of glad-
ness rang—■
A lonely littlq girl across the way,
A little girl I knew they say is dead ;
Bast week she lived across the hall from
me.
Her eyes were blue, small and well-shaped
the head
She carried high. That tiny balcony
Was hers. The mignonette is all burned dry !
She had no love nor friends, and she was
poor!
To-night my heart is breaking, and I cry
Because I never once had sought her d00r...
She had no love nor friends, and she was
poor!
N.S.W.
NORA McAULIFFE.


FLIES !
And How to KILL THEM !
USE
INSECTIBANE
(Mind the Spelling).
No other powder possesses the qualities which make INSECTIBANE so
peculiarly efficacious.
Though so deadly to insect life in all forms, INSECTIBANE may be
sprinkled freely about, as it is harmless to men and animals.
The high quality of INSECTIBANE is maintained and THE PRICE HAS*
NOT BEEN RAISED.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS and STORES.
nun miiiiiiiiii
iiiMiiimimmi
Waterman’s
(Ideal)
FoimtamPen
ND not for one moment will your thoughts be
interrupted by the idiosyncrasies of the pen
assuming you are using the World-famous Waterman’s
Ideal. Perfectly it writes and continues to write, as long
as the hand guides it. No spluttering, no need for
coaxing, just plain straightforward attention to duty.
Isn’t it time you had a Waterman’s Ideal ?
Three Types: “Pocket Self-Filling,” “Safety,” and “Regular.”
Of Stationers and Jewellers everywhere.
L. G. Sloan, Ltd., Corner London, England.
Australia : Harold D. Dixon, 105, Clarence Street, Sydney.
” JYfii,
When Lazy Spring Dulls the Keen
Edge of Appetite
—and you wonder how long you can entice
the palates of a critical family or discrimin-
ating guests, try —
Rex ” Camp Pie
In this appetising meat delicacy you get the
tempting savor which professional Chefs
blend into their most cherished products.
“Rex Camp Pie is a product of celebrated
Chefs. It is wholesome and tasty, far
above the ordinary.
It requires no cooking and there is
no waste. Serve it regularly at home,
at picnics and week-end camps.
Sold by Grocers Everywhere.
FOGGITT; JONES & CO. LTD.
Packers of " Rex” Pure Food Produtfs, Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon
J IQ3O
UWHHH
Bum
m
m*z
i^s
i
S^ttnnirr
imiHiiiiningi
IN
T*S
N ,v EA u J
“More”in Benger’s!
When in doubt about what “Food ” for an ailing or
backward infant, or for a person unwell, remember there
is more in Benger’s than in any other food.
Benger’s is a highly nutritive food, plus the natural
means to digest it.
FGDF
Food
is ready to nourish when served, because the preliminary
work of digestion is done while you prepare it with fresh
new milk. Benger’s is both delicious and highly nutritive.
Infants thrive on it, delicate and Aged persons enjoy it.
Fenger’s Food is entirely British in origin, ownership and manufacture. It is sold in tins
by Chemists, etc, everywhere. Carefully follow the directions on the tin when preparing it.
Booklet and full particulars post free from :
BENGER’S FOOD LTD., MANCHESTER, England.
BRANCH OFFICE: n 7, Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at New York (U S.A.) go, Beekman St. Dep6ts throughout CANADA.
For our sick and wounded
BOYS.—When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Red Cross Book
Depot, Wynyard Street, Sydney.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
0 •->+**
■ , > -I'l
*■'4* a.
:. •■ :-v- !>*’ v \ •/■*.;
kw
■ ■
'■:
/ ; 'fj/SiL
n
"■">■ lC l "t, 11 .' '
L '=•
n
m-A
<L
s»
The ESSEX is a light car of super-
refinement. It is built in the Hudson
factory and possesses many of the
features of the “Super-six.”
• • •
The R.A.C. rating is 18h.p., but this
wonderful little engine develops over
50 horse-power.
• • •
It has four cylinders and the Hudson
patent counter-balanced crankshaft.
• • •
It is capable of 65 miles per hour, and
owners can average 24 miles per gallon
of petrol.
Dalg'ety & Company Limited,
136 PHillip Street, Sydney.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 40.—N0. 2071.
THU USD AY, OCTOBER 28, 1919.
Pbice 6d.
(sue*>“tion4 •
What about A ,
Protective: tariff
,An ' w£ R‘
V/HEii OID YOU C,£T
OUT OF Qaol
r ion •
.. WHAT A»ri>our a PROT6CT-
-IV£ 7-A>Rip.p
/A m S w E R
" One Foot .AT* A.
P<-£ AS. £■ *•
C*> ue.s r/*n#
*» WHAT ABOUT A. PRoTECTIvf'
TAR ipF "
'AnS Wf CJ •
* Pouic.£ * Remove. That
/M A-M
QoCSTI
*' WHAT Aftour /A PPOT£CT/W£
•TaR ? ‘ *
Ams •
Oura. Clorious mu. i txw*c •y’
MFNTi —_
<Qo£ vr/orx
• ' y/HAT
fSNSWC f*
• • H^ , w / c a/**< X
Proceed with these Con* 7 a tit
ihterroptioh j
THE ARTFUL DODGERS.
(The rush of members for constituencies has set in. Herewith some useful hints at repartee.)


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for thte White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have The Bulletin
sent regularly to you every week for a year , to any
address in Australasia, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, uhether in the form of
Political, Social on other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3001) words, arc specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return • all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Bui
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it tvill be understood thai .
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail , from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., h)l Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Wffi Conway Buildings,
Chicago, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Iloung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. — Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Ilowe Islands,
lOos., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise; 802., lid.; Bioz. to 10oz., 3d.;
lOoz. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, koz., lid., and id. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 23, 1919.
THE PLAIN MAN’S DILEMMA.
The coming elections present to many good
Australians the most awkward political
problem they have ever had to face. On the
one hand they are offered W. M. Hughes
and the limited Constitutional amendments
for which he has been struggling with the
State Premiers. On the other is Ryan (for
there seems little doubt that the subtle
underground engineer from Queensland will
succeed in taking Tudor’s job) plus what-
ever new powers Hughes manages to ac-
quire. And, thirdly, there is the possibility
that the Referendum may be lost and the
National Parliament left impotent, as it was
before the Great War. Exclude the two
opposing bands of extremists —the blindly
trusting Hughesites, comprising those who
are willing to see the little man given a dic-
tator’s powers as a reward for his services
at the Peace Conference and as a tribute to
his gifts of speech and energy, and the
Ryanites, who include every Bolshevik, open
or ashamed, in the community. In between
those two sections is the vote represented
by the plain man, the reasonable, moderate
citizen with no particular use for either of
the dominant parties, but with a hankering
for effective government, economy and peace.
He recognises that high prices can’t be made
an end of by Acts of Parliament directed at
individuals or corporations, though such
measures may help ; that the trouble is in-
finitely complicated, and that the politicians
are at least as much to blame for it as the
traders. There are signs, also, that this type
is slowly beginning to suspect another truth,
namely, that he himself, as a State-Righter,
as an encourager or condoner of lavish bor-
rowing, and as an ppponent of Constitutional
change in the past, is not guiltless in the
matter.
He looks around him and he sees, at a
time when all the world is poor, a mad
proliferation of Governments. Every State
has its Brummagem Court and its imitation
House of Commons and House of Lords. Up
to the period when most of the sources of
wealth and millions of its producers began
to be destroyed wholesale he could, perhaps,
afford such luxuries. They were the costly
emblems of his dignity as a Victorian, N. S.
Welshman or S. Australian; and he reckoned
they were worth the money, in the same
spirit as certain Englishmen have always
considered it worth while to pay a relatively
exorbitant tax for the right to use a crest
or powder the heads of their footmen.
Nowadays, not only is real money shorter
in Australia than it ever was, but new con-
ditions have arisen—conditions which were
not dreamt of five years ago, much less
when our Federal Constitution was framed.
One of them is the general arrival of
Marxian in place of Fabian Socialism as a
working-class aim; of the Direct Action
method in industrialism; in short, of the
genesis of revolution. The plain man is
gradually realising that, while this menace is
as fluid as disease, there exist only sectional
means or half-means of dealing with it. The
Nation, which is the entity threatened, has
no more power to cope with .the danger than
it had nine months ago, when that other
world-scourge, influenza, duly arrived here.
Not as much, in fact. Nominally, under the
Constitution, the Federal authorities have
powers in respect of quarantine. Their
shadowiness enabled the States to flout
them, with results, as it turned out, partly
disastrous and partly ridiculous. But indus-
trially the National Parliament has not even
nominal authority. Take the case of a rail-
way strike such as occurred in England last
month. Assume, as it is fair to do, that
the States which own the railways in Aus-
tralia would not willingly stultify them-
selves by at once handing over control to
the central body—that, in fact, they would
fight hard against anything of the sort. What
chance would there be of a speedy end of
the calamity if it was tackled on a sectional
bagis? And if the answer is None, the
position arises that nothing stands between
the Commonwealth and the anarchy which
results from famine but the chance that, in
the. strenuous period of industrial change
which lies ahead, the railwaymen may
quixotically decline to follow the lead of
their fellow-workers. The risk is a tremen-
dous one, and it is incurred entirely in the
name of State Rights. Or, in other words,
that the status arid salaries of a herd of
provincial politicians may be preserved.
* * » *
The powers which the Australian Parlia-
ment definitely has not got are numerous
enough. It has no adequate trade power—
which is to say, it has no adequate power
to deal legislatively with profiteering—and
it is without industrial powers. It was sup-
posed to be competent to legislate on mar-
riage and divorce, bankruptcy and other
essentially national questions, but that view
has proved a, delusion. And there are other
powers which it actually exercises, but in
respect of which it is limited by circum-
stances. Thus it is charged with Defence,
which is entirely dependent on transport,
and, as before mentioned, the railways are
out of its jurisdiction; and with various
domestic services (the postal service, for
example) which can only operate with the
help of the railways. It became obvious
years ago that such a state of affairs could
not last. Yet many a sober and cautious
elector hesitates to end the condition by his
vote on December 13. His difficulty is
largely a personal one. He does not be-
heve in the fantastic threats of the State
politicians, such as that the Australian Par-
liament will start oppressing vendors of fried
fish and proprietors of street barrows if the
power is given it to control any intra-State
industry at all. But he is doubtful if the.
neurotic and furiously autocratic Hughes
is. precisely the man to be suddenly dowered
with a volume of fresh power; and he is
absolutely certain that Ryan is not — Ryan
who as Premier did more to send up the cost
of living in his own State than any profiteer
and whose recent notion of treating with
recalcitrant railway employees was to cave
in to their demands, regardless of the views
self 0 Arbltration Court constituted by him-
* * * *
What it, therefore, amounts to is that the
whole of Australia stands to be penalised,
not to say imperilled, because the two men who
have been set by the Party system at the
head of affairs happen to have “pasts.” But
this is an absurd position. There is surely
another way for the “safe” voters to look
at the matter. It may be risky to give an
unknown Parliament the considerable powers
which Hughes is seeking. But would it
not be ten times more dangerous to refuse?
Refusal means a continuance of the old mis-
understanding and friction between the
f ederation and the States—a further succes-
sion of sordid rows, the effect of which is
to disgust the public with Parliamentary
methods altogether, and to persuade many
that revolution is the only way out. It
means that the National Parliament will be
able to attempt nothing by legislation to
bring down prices, while the States have
shown that for many sound reasons they
can’t do it. So long as nine-tenths of the
powers which ought to be vested in a National
I arhament remain with the States, the
latter will consider themselves justified in
taking millions out of the pockets of their
taxpayers, of which a considerable amount
is squandered with the sole object of advant-
aging the Party in power, while other sums
go down the sink in such profitless pomps
and vanities as Governors. Legislative Coun-
cils and the like. In the last resort (the
world, and in particular the working classes,
being in the dangerous mood which is a
legacy of all great wars) the exasperating old
deadlock may—probably will —lead to an
upheaval on the European scale; with the
difference that, unlike countries such as Bri-
tain and France possessing centralised ad-
ministrations, there will be no opportunity
here to attack the menace with one hand
and one brain. And the alternative to a
Constitutional situation as anomalous as
could well be imagined is not so appalling,
after all. It simply amounts to banking on
the common-sense and genius for self-govern-
ment of a sace which has never failed, in the
long run, when seriously tested for such
qualities.
TROUBLES OF THE OLD MAN IN
LONDON.
It has been known for some time that J.
Bull, the person who renews our p.n.’s, is
in a bad way, and revelations of the last
few 7 days suggest that he is in a worse way
than w r as supposed. It wrns imagined that
when the war ended production would get
going so fast that the country w r ould begin
to recover, but in nine ‘months of compara-
tive peace imports have exceeded exports by
over £500,000,000, which is a staggering debt
to acquire in three-quarters of a peace year,
with no munitions to pay for. In pre-war
days Britain habitually bought more goods
than it sold, and paid the difference with
the money earned by investments abroad.
Now it has no money from investments
abroad, but is paying interest on foreign
debts, just like Australia. In other words,
it is in the same position as Australia,
but, unlike Australia, it has sense enough
to realise that it is on the edge of a precipice.
This country has just borrowed £25,000,000
of paper locally, and is talking of raising
£18,000,000 of gold in London as a beginning
of the resumption of the old razzle. J. Bull
doesn’t scheme, on the same population basis,
to raise £180,000,000 more gold in New York
and take it out in- “notions”—hats and silk
hose and short skirts. On tne contrary, he
is appalled to see that money is going out
without Government assistance, and an im-
passioned official statement has been issued
that unless there is less strike and stop work
and go-slow, so that local goods may take
the place of imported ones, unutterable
smash is at hand. Already he is meeting a
lot of his outgoings by selling such foreign
securities as he still possesses—Australian
debentures and the like. If he can’t pull
up, this country will have a new master —it
being the sort of country to which a master
seems essential.
* * * *
Australia requires to cut down its imports
and do a little work for itself even more
urgently than does the Old Man in London,
for it isn’t paying any part of its crazy
fluff-bill by selling securities accumulated in
better days, and it isn’t merely piling up
new private debts. It is pawning the public
credit as well, and the pawning of the public
credit is the thing that may end in the occu-
pation of the country, the practical suspen-
sion of the Constitution, and the appoint-
ment of a Mixed Commission of foreigners to
manage the finances. But it doesn’t neces-
sarily follow that the economy in importing
should be made at Britain’s expense. Aus-
tralia buys a smaller and smaller proportion
of its wares from Britain, the country which
kept its ports open to us and bought rather
liberally in return ; and it buys a larger and
larger proportion from countries like Japan
and the United States, which take very
little goods in return, and don’t propose to
take any more if they can help it, but are
willing to square the account with cash or
by taking a mortgage on the soul of the
community. It isn’t to this country’s in-
terest to have any change of mortgagees at a
time when financial breakdown looks so un-
pleasantly close. The Old Man in London
wouldn’t want to utterly wreck Australia,
because, even if the pomp of empire is only
a bluff, he doesn’t want to spoil his own bluff.
He doesn’t want to steal the place; it is
his already so far as he is ever likely to have
it. He would hardly care to blockade it or
bombard its ports over a matter of sordid
cash. Family dissensions of that sort are
bad form, and then it doesn’t pay to quarrel
with a good fighting ally, even if it is a
bankrupt ally. A different kind of creditor
would probably be willing that Australia
should go to pieces on the chance of picking
up some of the wreckage. He wouldn’t be
restrained from any extreme measures on
settling day by the feeling that he was alien-
ating a sure ally and Avrecking the mana of
his own empire, for he would be rather sow-
ing dissension in a rival’s camp and dis-
crediting a possible enemy. When Rus-
sia was crippled by the Japanese war
the Llun promptly scared it into a disastrous
trade treaty, providing for the almost free
admission of Hun goods. To-day the
Esthonians are almost persuaded into giving
themselves and their industries over to the
Hun in like manner for 20 years, in return
for military support. Turkey, on a certain
settlement day, was called on to admit
British goods under a tariff of not more than
5 per cent., and the same thing happened to
China, to the ruin of the manufactures of
both. In some later treaties it has been
added that the debtor shall not in future
borrow.from any other creditor, so that the
lien may be permanent, and that the creditor
shall have first claim on its railway and other
Government contracts. There are many
strange happenings in modern finance on
settlement day.
* -N * * ■*
The commercial agents who go to Japan
and the United States have very little hope
of selling things of the least importance to
these countries, and thus promoting Aus-
tralian industry and increasing Australian
population and getting money with which to
reduce Australia’s indebtedness. These
countries are willing to buy the rawest and
cheapest of raw materials which they can’t
produce themselves, but they aim at being
self-contained. Yet they are Avilling that we
should buy from them any amount of the
manufactured products of skilled industry,
and the Australian trading class makes
“commish” out of both buying and selling.
Especially it makes “commish” out of buy-
ing, which is importing. The general basis
of Lnited States trade with this country is
that where we buy £lOO worth of goods
Ave sell £4O _ worth or less, and settle the
difference Avith money borrOAved from the
Old Man in London, or else giA 7 e a mort-
gage on the country. This is very good for
United States industry, but it is no good
for Australia. When Trade Commissioner
Braddon was in the United States he did
very little in the way of finding a market for
Australian goods and thus getting money to
reduce our liabilities. But he was reported
as doing a lot in the Avay of telling the U.S.
people about the chances to invest here, and
become absentee capitalists, and exploit the
country, and ultimately—though he didn’t
say that, and probably didn’t think of that—
own the country.
* * * *
If Australia ever becomes heavily mort-
gaged to the United States, by borrowing
from that country, by buying from it more
than can be honestly paid for, and be-
coming commercially dependent on it, and by
sending Commissioners to point out how U.S.
capitalists may invest here and get a mort-
gage on us, the result in the long run, how-
ever long the run may be, will be annexa-
tion. It will be a case of hitching on to
the nearest. white man’s country ; for a de-
pendent, empty, borrowing, importing place
can’t stand by itself, and must be hitched on
to some one. It will be a case of leaving
the Old Man in London who is now rather
poor, and joining the New Man who has
become the great world capitalist. It will
be a case when commercial treaties are dis-
cussed of getting inside the ring of the
U.S. tariff instead.of outside it. Especially
it will be a case on settling-day of convert-
ing the purely financial uncle into a father
and blood relation. There might be worse
things than a political union with our near-
est big and moderately white neighbor, but if
there is an idea that way in commercial
circles the idea should be avowed. On the
other hand, if the intention is to stick to the
Old Man in London, the obvious course is
to try to make this a rich, honest, self-
dependent section of the Empire, and not a
parasite; not to worry the Old Man for
loans in his time of stress, with a covert
threat that if he doesn’t put them up the
loans he has already made may be lost; not
to be too dead-broke on renewal day; and
not to send too many commissioners to dance
attendance at the court of his creditor just
as soon as the Old Man has the misfortune
to have a creditor, and not to point out to
the creditor the way to get a lien on Aus-
tralia and thus adulterate the Old Man’s
securities. Australia doesn’t want more
trade—with Japan or the United States or
any other place. It has far too much trade
already, in the way of sending out cheap
raw material and bringing in expensive
finished goods, and it has too little local in-
dustry. Especially it doesn’t want more
dealings with manufacturing countries that
only want to sell to it and get a lien on it.
It has no use for a change of S uydocks,
which means a change of masters. Some day
it may set up for itself, but in the mean-
time the Old Man in London seems good
enough, whatever the York-street or Flinders-
lane interests may think.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Ryan Burns His Boats.
Thomas Joseph Ryan burned liis boats last
week when he resigned his seat for the
Barcoo, in the Queensland Assembly, and
crossed into N. S. Wales disguised as a
Federal candidate. It looks a remarkable
case of exchanging the bone for the shadow,
but the bone is very bare now and the
shadow is big and fat. The billet at
which Ryan aims is, of course, the Prime
Ministership of Australia. The man who
gets that, with a subservient Cabinet and a
docile and wild-cattisli following, has the
chance to divert the huge funds of the Com-
monwealth Bank to quite surprising uses,
and furnish strange frisks with the proceeds.
Then he has unlimited powers of note issue,
and_ the run of the big gold reserve held
against the notes. He has still considerable
borrowing chances in the London market,
and something in the song-and-dance line
may be done with the Federal sinking-fund.
These are the principal opportunities, but
there are others. The Commonwealth has
access to all the sources of taxation that
are open to the State Governments, and has
in addition the customs and excise, which
are both handy and expansive. It can re-
duce or cut off the State subsidies, and thus
have more money for high jinks under the
full moon. And there are possibilities about
lederal insurance—the funds of the depart-
ment to be invested in Federal loans—which
make the chances of a mere State department
look very meagre; also there are prospects
about Federal railways and shipping. For
a man of Ryan’s magnificent spending
capacity, and with his ability for making
half a crown do the work of 4d. and do it
badly, Federal politics offer the only suitable
field. In Queensland, big as it is, he was
cribbed, boxed-up and confined, and, besides,
in the course of four dazzling years he had
used up its resources. It is an exhausted
oil-well for men of his methods, though the
rare kind of politician with a mania for re-
pairing derelicts—the George Turner kind
—would love to take it in hand and do a
feat of salvage. With the railway surplus
?™" Ryan times turned int o a deficit of
±1,400,000 a year, and a certainty that it
must be indefinitely increased if half the
promises to supporters are to materialise;
with all pretence of even attempting to earn
interest abandoned, and the lines in the
hands of the unions ; and with most other
btate enterprises in a bad way, scope for an
active, spender grew limited. Add the facts
that in five years Queensland has been
changed from the State where living was far
the to the one which beats all re-
cords save West.ralia’s for dearness,' and from
a State with less taxes than the average to
one which is the record taxer, and the
reasons why Ryan shouldn’t be averse to
dropping the bone seem fairly substantial.
Corruption on the Grand Scale.
The public would get a severe shock if some
figure-expert could set out even approxi-
mately what Party Government costs each
taxpayer per year. The impossibility of the
feat is due to the fact that the total is
arrived at by so many devious roads, paths,
avenues and alleys. More especially allevs.
Millions are spent in bribes raised from all
the taxpayers and handed to the section
whose votes are required. The public is
familiar with the railway designed to cap-
ture the votes of the few people it will serve
and the often-more people who get a job in
constructing it. But the schemes are not
always so material. For example, there is


the one which the Government is understood
to have decided on of giving a flat Is. od. per
day between the dates of enlistment and
discharge (or, according to some accounts,
the Armistice) to all members of the A. 1.1?.
It matters little, of course, that there is
neither sense nor justice in such an arrange-
ment. Under it a man who joined up with
the Remount service, or who -went into a
pay-office at the beginning of the war and
hung comfortably on to the end, without ever
getting within many miles of the sound of a
5.9, will score £l3O-odd; while one who,
served with a fighting unit and got hit—
and possibly maimed for life early in the
proceedings, may not receive as many shil-
lings. Obviously the standard in such a
force as the A.I.F. should be the period of
service in face of the enemy —with a bonus,
possibly, for wounds, or for distinguished
service in the line. Every returned man
worth his salt would recognise that as a fair
thing. But the other scheme seems to promise
more votes, for which the public will find
the cash and the National Party will reap
the benefit. The Labor Party is said to
favor another notion. It is that all returned
soldiers shall be exempted from the necessity
of paying income-tax. Russell, Clarke,
Lebbeus Hordern, and thousands of other rich
men enlisted. There was a tent of gunners
said to be worth £2,000,000 in one of the
early F.A. Brigades. When the, infantry
failed to take Achi Baba a humorist sug-
gested that the 12th L.H. should be allowed
to luy the hill. Does the Labor party seri-
ously say that a man's reward for going to
the war should be in proportion to his
wealth? There is another variety of party
bribe which is equally expensive to the
taxpayer in the long run, though it is in
kind instead of cash. An instance is the
Government’s recent decision to exempt
all who have served in the A.I.F.
from serving in the C.M.F. This
move ought to gain the support (1)
of the thousands of returned men who
are due, by law, for several years’ militia
training; (2) of stay-at-home militia officers
and n.c.o.’s who don’t wish to be stultified
by having ex-A.I.F. men about the premises;
and (3) of those who are looking for militia
promotion. But the nation will lose in the
shape of a Commonwealth Army shorn of
every asset —experience, morale or prestige
and skill—which makes an army worth
while. And the taxpayers will be supplied
with a vastly inferior force for the same
money with which they might have bought
an efficient one. What is the ethical distinc-
tion between a Ministry securing the jobs of
its jnembers on such lines and a private
citizen pocketing a bribe for corrupting such
Ministers after they have got office? This
paper has never been able to see it.
Aviation in Australia.
Aviator Sydney Pickles writes: —
As The Bulletin says (9/10/’l9), Australia “is
rich in the raw material of which aeroplanes are
made.” There’s not a doubt about that, but it is
equally certain that complete machines will never
be made here on a big scale in competition with
the vast war-fat factories of Europe and America.
In the last stages of the war the British makers
were turning out from 3000 to 4000 aeroplanes a
month. These same makers are now famishing for
orders, and it will be surprising if they don’t start
on a dumping campaign. Already we learn that
quantities of ’planes are on the way. They are
probably second-hand fighting machines, good enough
for “joy flips,” but of doubtful value for solid, non-
spectacular commercial purposes. Anyhow, Australia
must learn to build its own machines, if it ever
hopes to become decently self-reliant in the matter of
defence.
The beginning, the middle and the end of the
business depend upon the tariff. When I turned
down several finaneially-attractive offers to go to
America and help the Yanks build ’planes, in order
to set the industry going in my own country, I felt
certain that the Australian Government would give
me all the protection necessary at the start. Per-
haps it may, too, but so far there are no indica-
tions that Mr. Massy Greene’s Department has
realised the importance of this matter. In fact,
it is not apparent that the people framing a new
tariff appreciate the vital importance of the air-
craft industry to Australia. If their view is the
same as that of the Defence people who let loose
many thousands of pounds’ worth of pilots and
air mechanics, without lifting a finger to keep them
together, then the sooner we give up all our dreams
of holding this country for the white man the
better.
As to the control of aviation, that by Govern-
ment will alone be satisfactory in Australia. But it
must be a rational control. The only rules neces-
sary are those to ensure safety to pilots, passengers
and public. The farmer who wants to keep an aero-
plane in his hay-barn should have no more trouble
in getting a license than the man who wishes to
graze a motor-car in his back yard or a motor-
boat on the harbor. Proof that he can fly his “ ’bus”
for a given period under reasonable conditions should
be sufficient to entitle him to a certificate for private
flying. A medical examination should be imposed,
and that not only on aviators but ion drivers of
motor-cars and other mechanical conveyances. The
aviator who intends plying for hire should, of course,
be subjected to tests of a more searching nature.
Though a member of the Aero Club, I cannot for
the life of me see why that body should aspire to
control civil flying, assuming that it does so aspire.
It should be, a sporting body, pure and simple, and
as such could do great work for aviation. It seems
to me that it would be just as reasonbale to allow
the A.J.C., which licenses jockeys, to lay down the
conditions which drovers, teamsters and bullock-
drivers shall observe, as to permit the Aero Club to
legislate for commercial aviation.
Most people still have it in their heads that
aviation is a suicidal variety of sport, not a sqber,
safe means of carrying on the everyday business of
the country. However, a little time will rectify
this, but we don’t want our legislators to start
work with their heads full of out-of-date ideas. The
British Government made the dreadful mistake of
placing civil aviation under the control of a depart-
ment staffed almost exclusively by military officers,
who, after months of brain-sweat, produced a moun-
tainous pile of regulations, nine-tenths of which
were unnecessary. With what result? Leslie
Guyer, editor of Aircraft, said lately in the Daily
Mail : “The present condition of the industry here
is alarming. It is no exaggeration to say that it
is being throttled. War orders have ceased, peace
orders are practically nil. Highly skilled staffs are
being disbanded, and machinery is idle. Com-
mercial flying, even in its most elementary stages,
is still awaiting a start. Meanwhile our rivals are
getting well ahead of us in the race for air-sup-
remacy.”
To sum up, the vital Australian needs are: (1)
heavy duties to encourage local manufacture; (2)
uniform legislation for the Commonwealth, based
primarily upon our own needs, but not impinging
upon International Conventions; (3) a simple system
of issuing certificates of efficiency to pilots and of
air worthiness to machines after practical demon-
strations in the air, such system to be controlled
by some Government department.
♦
As a Departing Cartoonist Sees It.
Dear Bulletin, —It is a sorrowful business
to disagree with popular opinions, but I
owe Australia a debt of gratitude which
would be ill repaid by spouting flattering
mush and sticky praises when the need of
plain home-truths is so evident. Australia
is a great country—great in extent and pos-
sibilities, but it cannot be sanely maintained
that its people have made or are making the
best of it. Apart from the acknowledged
greatness of their military valor, their
achievements are minute when contrasted
with the opportunities they have had and
wasted. Unfortunately this capacity for
missing opportunity seems to increase as
time goes on. Day follows day and the in-
eptitudes and disorders of the body politic
continue to increase and to betray them-
selves by symptoms ever becoming more viru-
lent ; while the Australian, his pride in him-
self fanned by the habitual over-rating of
his achievements by the press and politician,
loses his perspective in admiring the view. I
freely admit that some few Australians have
made a sordid progress under a strenuous
individualism, but no thinking man will
characterise this as true progress. As I
interpret it, real progress lies in political
and economic altruism, but on this kind of
progress there seems to be a subtle and
malignant influence, working in the dark,
which can apply the brake with a pressure
sufficient to abort all movement. In the
economic relations between employer and
employed the brake is conspicuously evi-
dent, or by this time in Australian history
there would have been evolved a co-operation
between them, by which the workman might
have been elevated to an enlightened self-
respect, self-control and independence. The
economics of Australia are chaotic _to a
degree; it cannot be called economy in any
sense to suffer valuable assets like men and
women to go to waste in dissension and
discontent. I do not venture to suggest a
remedy beyond the awakening of a conscious-
ness of demerit, the value of which can
hardly be over-estimated. Nothing is more
evident than that the great mass of the
people regard the present so-called represen-
tative institutions with abhorrence and con-
tempt ; yet the strikes and agitations disturb-
ing the country are not movements for re-
constructions, but are angry and vindictive
writhings having behind them the blind de-
structive wrath of a cheated crowd. There
appears to be little room for doubt that the
successive Governments of Australia have
arrogated to themselves too much power, and
have inclined too much to regard the people
as if they were herds of unruly cattle to be
driven hither and thither as Governmental
audacity might dictate. At any rate, I leave
Australia with that impression, and with
the conviction that, until legislators and ad-
ministrators make laws to restrain themselves
within the limits implied by the democratic
ideal, things will go from bad to worse. This
is not pessimism; it is really an optimistic
thesis, inasmuch as the supply of representa-
tives is bound to improve in the higher
moralities when that great god Demos be-
comes satiated with the confusion: —
I hope I shall not be regarded as a hostile
critic of the land which has been a home
to me for eight years. To those who may
be inclined to think so I recall the old truth:
“Faithful are the wounds of a friend.” —
Yours, David Low.
+
The Blot on Medicine’s Record.
A significant letter appeared in the last
issue of the Medical Journal of Aus-
tralia. It was from a returned A.I.F. doc-
tor who, commencing pi’actice in a suburb,
called on the other eight doctors- there. None
of them had been to the war; only one had
the decency to return his call. There are
roughly 3000 doctors in Australia and about
1500 served at some time or other. Never-
theless there was a chronic shortage of doc-
tors in the A.I.F. The men who might have
been abroad taking a very tolerable oppor-
tunity of “doing their bit” were more pro-
fitably employed at home collaring the
absentees’ practices. Many of them were
perfectly frank about it and rejoiced openly
at the spectacle of the topnotchers of the
profession “foolishly” throwing up large in-
comes to go on service with the rank and
pay of a major or a colonel. They said that
it was “a healthy symptom.” and “made
opportunities for the younger generation.”
When members of the A.M.C. began to come
back in considerable numbers at the begin-
ning of this year it might at least have been
thought that the stay-at-home division would
have given them every chance to re-establish
themselves. In many cases they did not.
A.M.O. officers with four and five years’ ser-
vice abroad to their credit, with families
waiting to be greeted and practices waiting
to be pulled together, found themselves de-
tailed as M.O.’s in general hospitals. The
reason was that the civilian doctors declined
to offer themselves even for this necessary
work, and no one was in a position to coerce
them. As the hospitals empty more and more
ex-A.M.C. men are gravitating back to civil
life. And still a section of the doctors who
have gained so much financially if not in. the
estimation of the patriotic by their cautious
attitude in respect of the great upheaval,
remain unhelpful—to use the mildest term.
If such men can’t see the discredit which
their conduct puts upon a profession that has
been sufficiently discredited already by 25
per cent, of its members, then the public
ought to take a hand. It is not a question
of punishing eligible non-starters so much as
of wiping out the handicap which the war
gave the eligible stay-at-homes.
Levies on Land and Capital.
The special inter-State Labor Conference,
held at Sydney, came to the orthodox decision
that the war debt, which is largely a foreign
affair, should be liquidated by a ‘‘levy « r
series of levies on land and capital. And,
as debt is a good thing to get rid of, while
the country is busy there seems to be no
reason why the peace debt, also largely
foreign, should not be shifted the same way.
Unfortunately there is the eternal question
of the form in which the proceeds ot the
levy shall be sent to the astonished creditor
abroad. Even if the richest man in Aus-
tralia cashed the biggest cheque m Aus-
tralia at the richest bank in Australia to
pav his levy with, he would only get notes
of great service for local circulation, but a
beggar in Europe would have no use for a
ton of them. The land can t be dug up and
sent to our creditor. A shipload ot eaith
dumped down opposite the Bank of England
would only be a nuisance. If he is ottered
the land as it stands here in Payment of his
bill, he might do a trade, and that kind ot
levy would be possible. But it wouldn t shift
a penny of the debt. It would only change
the foreign interest-collector into a foreign
rent-collector, and if he was an agile rent-
collector and had. luck with the unearned
increment Australia might owe hup
as much after lie was paid as it did before
he was paid. It would be the same if he
was given the railways as part payment,
thougli many of them he wouldn t have at a
gift—that is to say, there would only be a
swapping of absentees. Any kind ol cied -
tor takes gold readily enough, but all the
gold Australia digs out in a year now won t
nearly pay the outside interest bill let alone
wipe off principal. Partly for that reason
this country is now so anxious about its
gold that sundry Chinamen were arrested the
other day for trying to leave Australia with
ISS sovereigns—not stolen, but their own
lawful money. What part of the foreign debt
ever came here came in goods, a good deal in
railway material, which this country should
have made itself; and it can only be lepaid
the same way. If a millionaire can be levied
on for a pair of boots made with bis own
hands, and the boots are auctioned in Lon-
don by the High Commissioner the proceeds
will reduce the national liability a little:
but though he contributed bales of notes and
64,000 acres of squattage they would pro-
duce no result whatever. They aren t legal
tender in Bull’s country any more than the
“darg” or the strike is. Australia sends to
England plenty of the stuff that John
is willing to accept in reduction ot his debt
—goods that he can turn into gold—but un-
fortunately the proceeds are swallowed up in
paving for imports to keep our people out
of' work, and the members of the special
inter-State Labor Conference had some of
these imports on their backs. With twice the
population the debt would be only half as
much per head, which is one way of paying
it off; and the new people might bring some
real money, which would also help. Ihey
could be attracted here if there was work
for them, and supposing they worked at
making surplus things that Bull would
accept—boots or cotton or woollen cloth or
galvanised iron, or the like—the war burden
would begin to shift. But it is no use set-
ting them to build railways. Me can t ex-
port railways.
Australia’s Primary Industry.
Canada promises to increase its lead and
attract still more of the people we want so
badly. According to a recent cable 1 remier
Borden has announced that an early revision
of the tariff will be made, and the Govern-
ment will proceed to stimulate Canadas
foreign trade and improve its commercial
agencies, shipping facilities, harbors and in-
land waterways. The item should be ram-
med down the throat of every politician in
Australia, and if some of them are choked
in the process mourning can be dispensed
with. Here in the Commonwealth, by way
of comparison, the Government has its head
down and is bolting for a general election
before the impulse of the returned soldier to
crown William Hughes with a Digger s hat
has evaporated. Federal and State poli-
ticians are jostling one another to throw
their arms around the neck of Billjim and
promising to make this country something
more than Heaven for him; but absolutely
nothing is being done to provide him with a
steady job. Our import figures shriek a de-
mand for a truly Protective tariff that even
the deafest politician might hear. But those
who are in office can think of nothing but
getting a new lease of political life before
it is discovered that the Repatriation pie is
all crust. Canada’s policy emphasises the
lamentable fact that Australia’s great pri-
mary industry is politics, and. the. only real
concern of the average politician is to keep
his own job. If any Government has an
idea of making the Commonwealth the self-
supporting and solvent home of a popula-
tion worthy of the country’s area and re-
sources, the idea is completely disguised.
Most of the time of the Legislature that is
not expended in mere yap is devoted to
proposals to appoint a Royal Commission to
inquire into the dismissal of Bloggs, a
lunatic-asylum attendant, or a select com:
mittee to ascertain whether there was any
dirty work behind the Government purchase
or sale of something. Labor, from which
so much was hoped, remains in the
political game not to maintain demo-
cratic principles, but for the purpose
of squeezing the highest wages for the
lowest possible return of toil, and it hasn’t
even the brains to work for a tariff wall
that will keep out the product of competitors
who toil long hours for half, or less, of the
Australian ruling wage. If the politicians
were merely rushing dowm a steep place like
others of old did, it would be a blessing;
but they are dragging the country with
them; and that matters a great deal.
The Old Order Passes.
It is stated that Willie Kelly, M.H.R. for
suburban Wentworth (N.S.W.), will retire.
111-health is given as the reason, but that
may be regarded as one of those civil men-
dacities which are among the more or less
necessary features of social intercourse. The
fact is the country, even so conservative
a seat as Wentworth, has got away from
him. He was elected 16 years ago as a
Freetrader and a State-righter. Victoria
was the enemy in those days, and a manu-
facturer was a cross between a vampire and
a brigand. To-day Freetrade is dead in
Australia, and the State Rights doctrine sur-
vives only with a few politicians whose live-
lihood it is. In the next Parliament Kelly
is offered the choice between following
Hughes, a convert to Protection who is
a notable opponent of State Rights, and
Ryan. Politically, he has not where to lay
his head ; and though he could probably win
Wentworth as a Hughesite, without a very
conspicuous swallowing of old-time prin-
ciples, yet he is doing the honest and con-
sistent thing in getting out. Kelly, Fal-
kiner and others of their stamp are interest-
ing as symbols: their present position re-
sembles that of the ancien regime in France,
though,, whereas the French Tories went out
of politics and every other national activity
as a matter of pique, ours are being pushed
into private life by the force of circum-
stances. They would like to make the Par-
liamentary trip once more, but being limited
to a journey in the guard’s van with Hughes
or in the dog-box with Ryan they are mostly
electing to forego the adventure altogether.
The Bulletin has never admired this brand
of politician. But it is clearly a tragedy,
from the standpoint of true democracy, that
any one section of the community should be
unrepresented in Parliament; and that is
what is likely to happen as regards the in-
corrupt rich —a larger class than might be
imagined from a study of Royal Commission
evidence. There is another aspect of the
situation, and it also is disquieting. The
world-movement which is directed at a sud-
den escape from the old ruck is being ex-
ploited by office-seeking party politicians to
such purpose that it is impossible for moder-
ates, much less ultra-conservatives, to “stay
the course.” Politics are becoming more
and more a matter of bidding and over-bid-
ding. With Hughes promising the earth
and Ryan the universe, there is not much
scope for the drab, unsensational class of
vote-seeker, who was always more of a
sneerer and a contemner and a prophet of
woe than a promiser, anyhow. With the
party system eliminated there should still
be a niche in Parliament for the spokesmen
of a class which, after all, has a right to be
heard, however rich it may be. In passing,
it is a remarkable example of the working
of poetic justice that the people who have
all along been the strongest upholders of the
rotten old arrangement should now be the
victims of it.
+
Slums and Sundries.
Sydney, like most cities, has far more slums
than its well-clad people are aware of.
Traffic follows the tramlines, and the tram-
way streets are show streets. It is hard to
believe that some of them in, say, Ultimo, are
aristocratic highways, yet by comparison they
are, for the land along them is too valuable
to be occupied by the worst kind of hovels.
The curse that lies behind these lines is met
in four stereotyped ways—-(1) by politicians
declaiming against the bowelless landlord;
(2) by parsons pouring forth their wrath
against the godless landlord; (3) by sensa-
tional articles and photographs in the papers
when the murder and embezzlement market
is slack; and (4) by Governments building
two or three cottages to show how great
reforms can be. accomplished. Some points,
however, are never faced. For example:—
(1) If crowded two-storey shacks abutting on the
street and with yards about 12ft. long are replaced by
the one-storey places approved by town-planners, the
population will occupy twice the space. If three-
storey shacks are similarly replaced they will
occupy three times the space.
(2) If the inhabitants of the latter lot are housed
in detached cottages they are liable to fill six times
the old space. And if the cottages are planted, as
is proposed, at the new suburb of Dollville, on allot-
ments 45ft. broad and 120 ft. long, the chances are
that the infinity of back-yard will make the
crowded folk of the old three-storey tenement
occupy 12 or 18 times the former amount of space.
By this time the outermost dweller in the reformed
city will spend about two days a week getting
to and from his work.
(3) Finally, if the 22ft. or 25ft. streets are re-
placed by main streets 100 ft. wide and by-streets
66ft. wide as at Daceyville, the space required will
be vastly increased again, and the outermost dweller
will spend in the aggregate another half-day a week
in getting to and from his job.
No nation has yet contrived to get
800,000 people together without having
slums. That is to say, it has never been
done without having pqople huddled into
streets that are too narrow, and piled too
high on top of each other, and crowded too
many in a room. If the people are to be
spread out there must be much faster and
cheaper means of communication. This
might be effected by tube railways, possibly
layers of them one below the other. But it
can’t be done by tube railways built with
money borrowed at or 6 per cent., for the
interest burden precludes cheapness. And
it probably can’t be done unless the rates
on the unimproved value of land are about
Is. in the £, which means absorbing the
whole rental. Some Labor aldermen admit
that this is their ideal, and there are worse
ideals. But the owning, by taxation, of the
whole rental value of the land that a city
stands on is a mere collecting of money; and
the men who collect the money are no more
responsible for making a city decent when
the rates are Is. in the £ than when they are
2d. On the other hand, the direct public
ownership of the land that cities stand upon
means the same Is. in the £ revenue with
■full responsibility. The ground landlord is
answerable for the kind of streets he makes,
for the kind of leasehold tenants he keeps,
and for the kind of shacks he allows his
leasehold tenants to maintain on his pro-
perty. But that would mean building new
cities at favorable points and beside neglected
harbors, for the building of a city on vacant


G
SYDNEY
sgd
f
gd
SWAIN & CO., LTD.
123 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY
The Collection is a Representative One, and Prices are so Reasonable that All Picture-lovers
may Become Possessed of a Few Original Paintings that in time Will Become Very Valuable.
ALSO WORTH SEEING IS THE VERY FINE SELECTION OF REPRODUCTIONS OF PICTURES FROM THE WORLD'S
MOST FAMOUS GALLERIES. WUKLDS
To Beautify Your Home—and as Wedding or Birthday Gifts—these are most pleasing.
FOR THE HOME CHRISTMAS MAILS WE ARE SHOWING A FINE RANGE OF GREETING CARDS, STATIONERY
AND CALENDARS.
° UR STOCK OF BOOKS, FANCY GOODS AND STATIONERY IS UNRIVALLED IN AUSTRALIA.
ground is much cheaper than the building
of a city where the ground has first to be
acquired and then cleared of slum wreckage.
It would thus raise the question whether a
small community really requii'es one over-
whelming city, an overwhelming city being
pierely an exposition of the art of putting
the largest possible number of people in
the least possible space. Unfortunately
Australia’s social “reformers” seem to
have lost, or never to have possessed,
the pioneering instinct. Decentralisa-
tion is on their programme, but they
won’t decentralise worth a cent. Also, for
the most part the public ownership of land
is on their programme, but about the plant-
ing of cities on public lands they are very
cold. So progress concentrates on the build-
ing of a few “model” cottages with expensive
borrowed money on expensive land. And in
some States there isn’t even Chat much.
Droughts and Wrong Jobs.
A drought gets less space in the papers than
a similar event did, say, 25 years ago, because
columns of room are required for the war,
the peace and the latest strike; yet it is
apt to be a more fearsome calamity than it
was when it got the leading article and a
spare page all to itself. The country rises
again after this periodical calamity like
a ship lifting out of the trough of a
heavy sea, but the trouble is that if the
ship is overloaded and leaking it rises with
more and more difficulty, and a moment may
come when it won’t rise. Each drought
of equal severity is worse tha’h the last,
because, settlement having been pushed further
out, it affects a larger populated area; for
where there is no population it doesn’t
signify if the weather is as d/ry as the ash-
pan of Hades. So the great- national relief
expedition which starts from the One Big
City because there is no ot’aer place to start
from has further to go ar<d more provender
to carry. And every time the public ship
is called upon to do a big lift out of the
trough of a sea of dust and dry bones, it is
more heavily ballasted .with debt and is less
buoyant. Over a great part of Australia
to-day crops are almost as dead as Balaam
and the live stock almost as dead as the live-
stock that Balaam rode on; and hundreds
of young men who have been pushed out
on to the land are viewing a scene of deso-
lation. It used to be supposed that droughts
were but an occasional affliction; yet we
have only to go back to 1914 to find the pre-
decessor of the present affliction. Neverthe-
less the whole policy of the Repatriation
Department has been, to increase the popu-
lation that is liable to drought at the ex-
pense of that which isn’t liable —to multiply
the proportion of people who have to be
periodically rescued and diminish the pro-
portion of rescuers. If they have to be put
on the land they might at least be
put on the right land. Tropical Australia
contains hardly any of the continent’s desert,
using the term to express the region with
less than lOin. of rain per annum, which
is desert enoug h . for practical
The temperate section of the Commonwealth
(1.825,261 square miles) includes roughly a
million miles of permanent drought land, or
more than half its area. But settlement
began in the South because in the pre-steam-
boat davs only the maddest sort of skipper
,\vent prowling among the complicated waters
■on the other si.de of the continent. The
loss of Pels a bit’s entire colonising expedi-
tion —the real. First Fleet —up that way
practically settled the question. The turn
of the North didn’t arrive until Australian
agriculture had become dead and petrified
and the habit of growing new things was
extinct. It beg.un with wheat in the South
and it now Thinks Wheat, whereas it might
otherwise have begun with cotton in the
North and got into the way of Thinking Cot-
ton.
♦
Analysis made by an old Labor politician
who, by the way, didn’t leave the party along
with Hughes:—
A couple of Weeks ago I found myself in a
train with nothing to read but three issues of the
Sydney Worker. Having read all that was read-
able, I began to dissect the darn thing. I found
that more than half of the space devoted to poli-
tical and semi-political matters over the three
issues was taken up with articles, pars and letters
attacking and condemning Britain and her Allies
and booming and extolling Germany and the Bol-
sheviks. Yet Mr. Booth is not pro-German per se)
and I don’t believe he is a Bolshevik. But he has
got a twist. During the war Hughes prevented
him printing the stuff he wanted to. Therefore
(and probably for other reasons) he hates Hughes,
and whatever Hughes stands for Booth attacks.
Hughes supported Britain and the Allies; there-
fore Booth naturally swung over on to the other
side. Hughes demanded indemnities for repara-
tion ; therefore Booth calls reparation “spolia-
tion.” Booth hates militarism, but not as much
as he hates Hughes ; therefore when Hughes de-
manded the destruction of the German Military
Machine Booth declared we should make peace,
leaving the German military gang triumphant.
Hughes put up a big fight to prevent the Japanese
being granted recognition by the League of Nations
on the same footing as the white races (realising
that if this were granted the Japanese could later
on logically demand free entry into the white men’s
countries) ; and ever since the Worker has been
sympathetic towards Japan, and has attacked Hughes
for “having created a new enemy in the Pacific.”
Boote does not like the Japs any more than I
do, but he likes them a lot better than he likes
Hughes. (By the w’ay, it would be interesting to
try to imagine what Boote would have said if
Hughes had not put up a. fight against the Japanese
claim.) If in the washing up Australia does not
get a big lump of the German indemnity, Boote
will say Hughes has placed an intolerable load of
debt on the people of Australia; if we should get
50 million or so towards our out-of-pocket expenses
Booth will call it plunder and say Hughes is one
of a gang of thieves.
♦
“Murkah” : At various times during the
war the Australasian Radio Service was
called upon to act as though the enemy was
at the gates. Without exception the tests
were failures. This is bad enough, but
nothing was done, nor has been done, to
remedy the defects discovered. On one
occasion Sydney Radio (Pennant Hills)
tried to throw a naval signal to Awanui
(M.L.). After an hour or so the effort was
abandoned, and the message was sent by
cable. In the face of this the “silent ser-
vice” recently claimed that in the event of
cable interruption it could maintain the ser-
vice with M.L. Once when the land line
to N.Q. was “down” an attempt was made
to radio messages from Sydney to Towns-
ville station. The same conditions that in-
terrupted the telegraph rendered the wire-
less of little avail, and results were about
nil. On another occasion tests were made
between Sydney and Rabaul. Some stupid-
LIFE’S LITTLE GAME.
ity resulted in the stations receiving dif-
ferent instructions, so that they missed each
other by an hour throughout. Later the
error was discovered, and a second test con-
ducted. It proved the usual fiasco. The
reason for it all is inadequate power. Barely
sufficient has been provided for good con-
ditions. Therefore very slight atmospheric
disturbance is enough to suspend communi-
cation. Nothing results from the many
alleged static-rejectors. Static conditions in
Australia are very bad. Consequently the
Yankee cure for interference (50 per cent,
more power than good conditions require)
applies even more forcibly to Australia. As
at present constituted, our Radio Service is
a fair-weather proposition, and practically
certain to continue to fail every time it is
called upon under any other conditions ; and
these other conditions are the very ones under
which it is likely to be needed most
urgently.
“Hawk” : .The howl of a section of the press
for a political leader, and the acclaiming of
Hughes as Moses 11., is Celtic. The Eng-
lishman never moans for a leader; and in
this the Australian is more English than the
Englishman. England’s best Premiers have
been men of moderate ability; and it won the
late war without producing any great military
leader—not even a second Roberts. The
Englishman does not want to be dominated;,
and Price Collier traces the origin of this
precious quality to Viking ancestry. Prob-
ably our race lived for thousands of years
by the fjords of Scandinavia; there families
were isolated and of necessity self-sufficing,
self-reliant. The Norwegians were never
serfs or feudal slaves, and are the only white
people with that record. By contrast, the
Iberian Celt has not even yet escaped the
tribal system, with its chief as ruler and dic-
tator. Always the Celt wants a tin-god to
order him about; and this lawgiver he first
over-estimates and later deserts. Australia,
above all, wants business management; and
the direct way to get that is for the electors
to formulate a political business platform.
These might be a few of the planks:—
Every country town a city with a protected in-
dustry to support it.
Railways to be paid for by the values they create.
Bring the market to the farmer in his own neigh-
boring manufacturing town.
No export of wheat, only flour; of hides, only
leather; of fine wool, only yarn.
Less carriage and more marriage; or less freight
to Melbourne, Sydney and London by providing cus-
tomers at Ballarat and Bathurst.
No patent rights without local manufacture.
Ten years’ monopoly for new industries, with a
guaranteed maximum price.
No amateur government; the Treasurer to be a
qualified accountant; the Minister for Works to have
a successful business record.
These are suggestions only. The voter may
think of others more to his taste. But let
him get a hustle and do something himself;
for the alleged leaders want to be led.
“Centurion” : All this mystery and hesita-
tion on the part of the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment with regard to the war gratuity is
political manoeuvring. “Batta” has long
been an established institution in the Bri-
tish Army, and in the old days was paid
from the proceeds of loot. The Indian wars,
particularly the Mutiny, yielded splendid
‘batta,” and the Chinese campaigns of the
lJth century also crushed very rich. Our
own soldiers received “batta” for their ser-
vices in South Africa, so the Defence
authorities know about the custom and have
endorsed it. In the case of the S. African
campaign, the gratuity was set at a “unit”
of±s for each year’s service as a private,
lhe scale gradually rose till a lieutenant
got seven units, and so it went on. After
one year’s service as a trooper and two as
a lieutenant, I drew £75 in addition to
£lOO _ special gratuity and £lOO wounds
gratuity. All these “bonuses” are being paid
to the British Imperial Forces, with many
other allowances, which bring the pay of the
British officer, even on the old scale, far
higher than the flat rate paid to his Aus-
tralian _ brother, the so-called “best-paid
soldier in the world. The war-gratuity
“unit” which the Tommy private is at pre-
sent receiving is £5 for the first year and
10s. per month thereafter—with a rising
scale for higher ranks, presumably. It should
be said that the special and wound gratuities
mentioned above were paid for service in a
regiment which, though raised in Australia,
was armed and paid by the Imperial authori-
ties.
“Murkah”: With the aid of a diagram
and gear lying about the Sydney radio sta-
tion, two operators constructed the receiving
set on which Nauen (Germany) was first
heard in Australia. The total cost of the
special appliance was about £l2. For about
15 months this set demonstrated its efficiency
by receiving thousands of wmrds daily from
American, German and other stations. Bris-
bane Radio duplicated the Sydney receiver
and got equally good results. During all
this time the Radio Department did prac-
tically nothing to help the experimenting
operators, some of whom spent a good deal
of their own money in the business. At last
the Department woke up and decided to
instal this type of receiver in all Australian
stations. But though it had been clearly
demonstrated that the receivers could be
made in the Commonwealth for about £l2
to £l5, 30 of a slighly different type were
imported from U.S.A. at a cost of £46 each,
duty free. Then, like Hughes’s ships, the
imports were a failure! For efficiency,
sensitiveness and reliability they did not
compare with the cheaper Australian article.
We gave ours a fair trial and discarded it.
It seems to me that someone ought to be
kicked for this stupidity. Incidentally, the
receiver on which Fisk, of Amalgamated
Wireless, received signals from Carnarvon,
Wales, was Australian from roof to base-
ment.
Melbourne Age asked in a recent Satur-
day’s issue: “Do women smoke more?” The
Devil only knows.
Another scandal of the Holman-Fuller
Administration comes from the N. S. Wales
State timber-yard. A chip of the old block
as it were. ’
Maoriland breeds some stalwart women.
According to census returns just issued 3341
wives (white) had families of 10 children-
-2233 had 11; 1562. 12; 951, 13; 534. 14 :
245, 15; 139, 16; 51, 17; 26, 18; 14, 19-
7. 20; one, 22; and one 25. Not a word
about dad, of course!
This is a Bench view of it:—
Adrian Knox is the best man from the Bars of
Australia. But the claims of the High Court should
not have been overlooked. Where you have cer-
tainties, why experiment? For instance, Barton, J.,
with wide and ripe experience, had for two or three
years already scted in the position. In England
Judges are promoted from the Bench. Primary Judges
are promoted to the Court of Appeal and to the
House of Lords—Parker, Hamilton and hosts of
others. Knox had on one occasion (not several)
refused a State Judgeship; that was before Harvey,
J., was appointed. It remains to be seen if he can
develop the judicial temperament.
It is truly an old-hen-with-one-chicken
Government. The tariff, being a man’s-size
job, and a heavy one at that, goes over-
board fill next Federal Parliament meets,
when, if the present crowd of side-steppers
is still in office, it will come up for con-
sideration on the sixth Friday of the month
when the blue moon rises in the west But
the Government got into a congenial atmos-
phere when it removed the Jrd. tax on child-
ren’s threepenny picture-show tickets, a
child being any person under 16, and also
the tax on adults’ threepenny tickets except
when a person aged over 16 is going into a
continuous” show, said show being one
which gives more than two shows in a day
on more than two days a week. Now when
the Cabinet gets through with its Bill nro-
vidmg that eggs shall always be broken at
the big end it can go to the country with a
light heart and let tariffs and shipbuilding
programmes slide. s
An hour of Bill Lyne wouldn’t be amiss
now. Bill was among the last of the old
six-act melodrama and heavy-father type of
politician, whereas the present fashion is the
two-act musical comedy with ballet. Oom
Bill was of the cart-horse breed, quite dif-
ferent from the newer cockatoo or bird-of-
paradise sort. Pie gave the impression of
bedding InmseJf down in a stall at night
while Hughes creates an idea of sleeping
up a tree. But Bill loved to tackle a tariff
or something like that, partly because he
really had principles, and partly because it
was a solid beefsteak sort of thing that he
could get his teeth into and he didn’t care
for kickshaws. You couldn’t picture him
devoting the fag-end of a busy session to
decreeing that the cheap picture-show ticket
shail be 3d. except where a person aged
over 16 is going into a show which gives
more than two shows in a day for two days
a week, when the ticket will be Sid. Bill
Dyne looked rather like Oom Paul Kruger
who did WaS the laSt Australian Politician
Last week the idea that the State timber-
yard is a pleasing and profitable exception
amid the general bad luck of N. S. Wales
State enterprises, flickered out. The mana-
ger, according to the story told in Parlia-
ment, had, on paper, converted the business
from a disaster to a dividend-paying concern,
out he only did it by “faking” the accounts,
not apparently for any profit of his own, but
because he hated to see such a look of misery
on the Cabinet’s countenance. In a moment
ot bitterness the Treasurer made his com-
ment :
We ought to shut down on the lot of these State
enterprises fish shops and everything else.
Yet' I üblic Lnterprise is as good as it ever
was—provided it is Public and not run for
the advertisement of a handful of politicians
and the benefit of a bagful of constituents.
It .can t realise a profit for the community
has to pay duplicate wages—one lot for
the work done and the other to prevent the
employees becoming riled and voting the
wrong way. It hasn’t much chance with
politicians always looking in at the window—
partly because some faces don’t look well at
the window and partly because the constant
presence of a self-appointed court of appeal
discredits the management. It shouldn’t
be axpec * ed to live up to the theory
that the btate is the ideal employer unless it
has some sort of power to make the worker
be the ideal employee, for the payment of
ideal wages for work that isn’t ideal leads
to bankruptcy.


Would You Set a Boy to Fight a Grown Man?
NO It wouldn’t be fair.
An«l yet some people expect the youthful Australian
Iron and Steel Industry to compete on even terms
against the giant enterprises of Europe and America.
When the Australian Industry is full-grown it will
be able to stand up against the competition of the
world—on equal terms, or anything like equal terms,
it fears no competitor.
But at present the terms are not equal. The Aus-
tralian Industry is young and is heavily handicapped
-—is paying high wages—heavy transport charges—
high prices for materials—and it has only a com-
paratively small output.
The Australian Iron and Steel Industry wants to
be allowed to work its hardest for the people and
for the future of Australia.
It wants to help build Australia into a great nation
—to make Australia self-reliant and self-supporting
—to make Australia safe from attack from without
—to make plenty of employment for Australian
citizens.
EVERY ENGINEER IN AUSTRALIA
is asked to assist to build up this Industry by using nothing but
AUSTRALIAN IRON AND
which has been proved equal to that made in any part of the world.
WILL YOU HELP?
Australian Steel for Australian WorKshops.
STEEL
POLITICAL
POINTS
The hero returns. Advt. in Brisbane
Courier (14/10/T9) :r—
-£3 paid to any person finding employment for
returned soldier as carter or laborer, permanent tor
six months.
Another from Melbourne Argus :
Barrel-organ, suit pensioner or disabled soldier;
easy to wheel about ; no reasonable offer refused.
And the tariff which would provide the
Digger with a job is pushed off till after
another general election! Well, that has
this advantage: it will give the Digger a
chance to politically slaughter every candi-
date, Labor or Liberal, who won’t promise to
make a high tariff the first job of the new
Parliament.
Premier Ryan, of Queensland, makes a
“slim” start in Federal politics. Con Wallace,
the sitting member for West Sydney, stood
for selection as his dummy. If Con lost it was
his loss, for he lost his own seat; if he won
it was Ryan’s profit. Ryan had three
chances —the votes of the people who wanted
him through not having seen his methods too
closely ; the votes of the people who didn’t
like to disparage Wallace; and the votes of
the Deople who didn’t care for the two nonen-
tities one of whom must be accepted if they
knocked out Wallace in order to express their
opinion of Ryan. Wallace had a pair of
chances: to win the seat and give it to
Ryan and be told that Ryan’s popularity
caused the win; or to lose it and be told that
if Ryan had stood in his own name things
would have been different.
Treasurer Watt having presented some
estimates showing that Canberra would pro-
bably contain 2678 officials to start with.
Hector Lamond was quite pleased, and said
that at that rate the capital might ulti-
mately raise a population of 20,000 or 80,000,
and that it was a great thing to “create
such a city in the interior.” Interior? Can-
berra is almost in sight of blue water. If
it were the capital of Tasmania, then at that
distance from the coast it would be interior
enough, but compared with the vast bulk
of Australia it is only a skin disease. It
isn’t far enough in to be a stomach-ache.
Ryan, in his capacity of “campaign-
director” for the Labor party, made his
ddbut at Melbourne witn an impassioned
speech on Imperial Federation—which “will
take away our powers of self-government and
impose on us a staggering burden. It is
looming. Anti-Ryaniies are conspiring for
it. And only a Ryan Government can avert
it. It recalls the happy, irresponsible days
of 40 years ago when elections were won in
N. S. Wales by men who promised to “resist
the encroachments of Rome” to the utmost.
Can’t Ryan think up some other bogey or
red herring—one that isn’t so obviously de-
cayed ?
How will Adrian Knox interpret the Con-
stitution Act? Narrowly, like Griffith; or
broadly, like Isaacs? The peace and wel-
fare of Australia may hinge on the question.
Knox is more than strong: he is so dominant
that the quality in him almost amounts to
a defect. As he swayed the A. J.C. Committee
—all of whom were horse-racing experts
—so he should sway at least some of the
High Court Bench, not all of whom are
constitutional experts, if he sets his vigor-
ous mind to it. But the referendum result
may remove from the High Court a respon-
sibility it was never meant to have —that of
being a sort of one-man Legislature for all
Australia.
HE DID HIS BIT.
PROFITEER PERSON: “What did Ido in the Great War? I re-adjusted my prices,
Digger!”
The retrospective increase of wages is a
clumsy device. Justice Higgins dated his
award for waterside workers back to May
1, and some stevedores and others who com-
pleted contracts based on the old scale
haven’t a ghost of a chance to recover from
their employers the extra money they have
to pay their employees. The ship they'loaded
in June on terms based on June wages has
gone now. so the man here will have to
settle as best he can. It would be a sort
of experiment to raise the tram fares as
from last May, and see what luck there
would be collecting the back money. And
it would be a tragedy if a hard-up Govern-
ment cut down Mr. Higgins’s salary and
dated the reduction back to 1904.
After having loafed for months, on the
ground that it could not work while Hughes
was away, the House of Reps, put up the
usual speed-record toward the end of the
session, after many members had rushed
back to constituencies which were under
suspicion. In less than half an hour on
Friday the Constitution Alterations, Mat-
rimonial Causes, Deceased Soldiers’ Estates
and Sugar Industry Commission Bills were
put through all stages; and the only excuse
Hughes could offer for the haste was that
in his own day the Labor party had passed
more bills with even less consideration.
•F.C. : These repeated threats of resort-
ing to compulsory loans set me musing. If
I were Premier Holman, for instance, I
would, after I had got over the surprise at
my own moderation, proceed steadily on a
compulsory-loan course. I would be able
then to show surpluses, provide well-paid
employment and revel in popularity—until
Nemesis hit me. Even then nothing very
serious would happen to me, though the
country would get it in the neck. I wonder
the idea hasn’t been exploited before. But
there is a chance, and, unless Australia sits
down hard on borrowing and political cor-
ruption, I fancy it wonlt be long before some
hard-up Treasurer grasps it.
Once Darwin caught the theory
Of evolution. How
The fashions change' One waxes glum,
For revolution has become
The Darwin practice now 1
CENTRAL AUSTRALIA. M. T. NORTH.
Germany, whose interest bill and other pub-
lic burdens (apart altogether from the in-
demnity) has been increased rather more
than fourfold by the war, is going to make a
levy on capital. That is quite a possible way
out of difficulties when the difficulties are
local. It is simply a case of robbing Peter
to pay his neighbor Paul. But if Paul lives
in a far land, the difficulties are enormously
added to; for Paul then wants gold, or goods
that he can convert into gold. There were
a lot of disadvantages in being the blockaded
country; but if it kept Germany from getting
foreign goods it also kept it from going into
foreign debt, and that simplifies the cleaning-
up.
Now S. Australia, which is so hard up
that it can’t even provide accommodation
for boys who want some University training,
has adopted the practice of paying a salary
to the leader of the Opposition. Apart from
the asininity of paying one man to do a job
and another to do his darnedest to stop the
other from earning his screw, this assump-
tion that there are only two brands of men
is a fraud worked by politicians on the people.
The zoo manager who branded all his beasts
either “sheep” or “goats” would be no more
of an ass than the political system which
assumes that God made all men in one of
two moulds.
Lawson’s Anti-Profiteering Bill seeks to
set up a Fair Profits Court on the lines pro-
posed by the McCay Commission, but re-
serves for the Governor-in-Council the power
of giving effect to the Court’s recommenda-
tions for regulating profits and preventing
the cornering of necessary commodities.
Exception has been taken to the limited
powers proposed to be given to the Court,
but the reply of Ministers is that the Mail-
way Commissioners and the Tramway can-
not increase or lower charges without the
concurrence of the Gov.-in-Gouncil. and that
there is not much difference between concur-
rence and the power of veto which operates
in Vic. in relation to Wages Boards.
Cheerfully considering the condition of in-
dustry in Russia under Bolshevism, the
Labor Call (Melbourne) has discovered
that, “apart from the question of food, which
was bad for everybody,” the social standard
of the workers has risen. It recalls the
operation which was a great success apart
from the trifling circumstance that the
patient died under it.
The brake will have to be put on the Vic.
Uppah House, now that Davies is dead.
Manifold in the chair, and a reasonable
human man like Baillieu unofficial leader,
or it will become radical. It actually passed
a Bill, introduced by Labor member Beckett,
to prevent the municipal disfranchisement
of persons liable to pay rates because the
rates are not paid by June 10. The
law has already decreed that the rates
are to be a charge for all time on the
property, and tenants are penalised because
of landlords’ neglect. The remarkable thing
is that the Council has this year given the
Assembly a lead on this subject. For years
Bob McGregor, M.L.A. for Ballarat East,
has tried in vain to have such a Bill enacted.
Country party chieftains and other corner
captains are making things uncomfortable
for the Lawson Ministry in the Vic. As-
sembly. The fact is there are three parties
in the House and they simply refuse to re-
duce themselves to two. Each will Be
blowed if it’ll be stowed in the other
one’s hold, d’you see. Agar Wynne is said
to be ready to jump in and lead, as J. B.
Patterson did in .1898 when Gillies and
Deakin, the former leaders of a Government,
were holding back from the task of shifting
Shiels. gome of the malcontents would be
satisfied if Lawson would reconstruct. Law-
son’s trump card, when he likes to play it, is
to ask the House to work or get dissolved.
A few more feathers from the 1 >ove of
Peace, plucked on Oct. 10 ;—•
General Yudenlteh is fighting within 40 miles of
Petrograd. He hopes to enter the city in three
weeks.
A punitive expedition is to he sent against the
Wazirs for their attitude during the recent Afghan
War. Intensive bombs from aeroplanes are to lie a
feature.
Denikin’s army is being reinforced by batteries
manned by gunners drilled by British officers.
In the U.S.A. Senate Senator Lpdge charged Japan
with regarding war as a national industry. A
superior U.S. navy must be kept in the Pacific.
Norway wants the Murmansk coast.
The whole working population of Soviet Russia
has been ordered to undergo military training.
American troops are patrolling Gary, the centre
of the steel strike.
France has begun to expel Germans, Austrians,
Bulgarians and Turks.
The Entente has resumed the blockade on account
of the Baltic situation.
Turkey revolts against the Treaty.
There are plenty more, but that lot will do
to make a pillow for optimists to sleep on.
Short shrift was given by the Vic. Leg.
Council to Edgar’s motion for a referendum
of parents on Bible lessons in. State schools
in ordinary school-time. Only Drysdale
Brown. Chandler, Hicks and Adamson voted
with Edgar, and there were 10 on the other
side. Baillieu paired for, and Frank Clarke
against. Dour Joe Nicholson, who spurred
on Edgar, must be grievously disappointed,
for he has been trying to persuade himself
that it was only the wicked Assembly that
has stood in the way of the realisation of
his heart’s desire to become joint-director
of State schools with Tait- —one on the
temporal, the other on the spiritual, side.
“II.T.”: One of our returned men, an
ironworker, came back to his old job this
week, and was provided with a fine set of
tools by the Repat. Department. The first
one examined had “Germany” engraved on
the side.
VICTORY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The schools marched in procession in happiness and
pride,
The city bands before them, the soldiers marched
beside ;
Oh, starched white frocks and sashes and suits that
high schools wear,
The boy scout and the boy lout and all the rest were
there.
And all flags save Australia’s flag waved high in sun
and air!
'I he Girls’ High School, and Grammar School and
colleges of stone
Flew all flags from their walls and towers^ —all flags
except our own !
And down here in the alleys where Premiers never
come,
Nor candidate, nor delegate, nor sound of fife and
drum,
They packed them on the lorries, seared children of
the slum.
Each face seemed soiled and faded, though scrubbed
with household soap,
And older than u mother-face, but with less sign of
hope:
The knowledge of things evil, of drunken wreck and
hag,
Of sordid sounds and voices, the everlasting “nag”—
Oh, men without a battle-song! Oh, men without
a flag 1
They breed v a nation’s strength behind each shabby
little door.
Where rent-collectors knock for aye, and Christ shall
knock no more ;
The sounds that hurt the mother’s heart affright the
children there—
Alarm-clocks on an empty tin, the tin tray on a
chair;
For weary folk are hard to wake in hot and heavy
air.
They sang in Pride’s Procession that Mammon might
endure —
Oh, wistful singing faces, the children of the poor!
Oh, hideous fiends of commerce 1 Oh, ghouls of
business strife!
I wait tiie coming of the things to wake the land
to life;
The flag without a cross or bar, the drum without a
fife!
Jf.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.
THE PHENOMENON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He was an odd, arresting type—
A man, you would have said,
Who came from some outlandish spot,
Or who had long lain dead
While modern thought and methods passed
O’er his unconscious head.
Simplicity was written large
Upon his guileless face ;
No thinking person would have backed
Its owner for a place,
Much less for a decisive win,
In Life’s relentless race,
“Who is he?’’ asked the Sydneyite.
His friend replied: “You stare.
No wonder. There you see a man
Unique beyond compare.
He made, last month, a thousand pounds
And knows how, when and where!*'
N.S.W.
D.J.


THE WAR GRATUITY.
“No, no, my boy, not yet-let me speak to him first!”


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
Registered
BHAS
Brand.
Producers of Lead in the following forms
Refined Lead, Corroding Lead, Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated),
Super-refined Lead, Chemical Lead.
Also of—
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated), Spelter,
and the following Alloys and Metallic Products .
Antimonial Lead, Linotype Metal, Litharge (Industrial and Assay),
Bearing Metals, Leaded Zinc Pigments, Blue * ”. er ’ t
Purchasers on a Specially Favorable Tariff of Silicious Silver-Feat re , g ,
containing: Silver anti Lead. Lead Drosses, Zinc Drosse .
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS STREET, MELBOIR'E-
H. L. SHACKELL. Secretary. ~ ()
LONDON OFFICE: PINNERS HALE. AUSTIN' FRIARS, E C. 2
A. .1. SMTTH. London Secretary.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY—
R. N. KIRK (Agent).
ADELAIDE OFFICE: 62 BROOKMAN’S BUILDING, ADELAIDE—
A. W. LEWIS (Agent).
SMELTING WORKS. PORT PIRIE, S.A.
COKE WORKS. BELLAMBI. N.S.W.
NOBEL-GLASQOW EXPLOSIVES.
V
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobol
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting; Gelatin*
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonator*
Cartridge*
QUEENSLAND
MOST RESOURCEFUL OF
THE AUSTRALIAN STATES
Visitors to Sydney and residents of hew South Wales
when seeking information about the Great Northern State, whether
from a tourist, land settlement, scientific or inoestment point of view,
should first enquire at the Sydney Branch of the
Queensland Govt. Intelligence & Tourist Bureau.
Full Information and Descriptive Literature supplied FREE.
ADDRESS: 279 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. S.
A Safe Investment,
money returned if better value can be obtained elsewhere the "PAVILION," Sydney’s Restaurant de luxe, Circular Quay.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Commonwealth Bank; of Aus-
tralia:— , r , ..
Loss. Deficit.
Dec. 1912 .. £14,606 £14,606
June’, 1913 .. 32,030 40,G36
Profit.
Dec., 1913 .. 1.547 45,089
June, 1914 .. 8,093 36,996
Dec., 1914 .. 13,429 23,567
Reserves.
. June, 1915 .. 25,7.89 2,222
Dec., 1915 .. 50,949 53,1il
June, 1916 .. 93,898 147,069
Dec. 1916 .. 153,072 300,141
June, 1917 .. 226.151 52G.292
Dec., 1917 . . 232,659 755.951
June, 1918 .. 317,075 1,070,026
Dec., 1918 .. 458.271 1,534.297
June, 1919 .. 388,673 1,922,970
It is safe to say that no other bank in the
world ever started absolutely without capi-
tal (all this one had was an advance of
£IO,OOO from the Treasury to meet prelim-
inary exes.), and showed reserved profits of
just'upon two millions within seven years.
Certainly no other bank ever had such a war
to help it; and some day, when Hughes is
talking about the wickedness of profiteering,
a mischievous person will ask him what per-
centage of profit his own Commonwealth
Bank made during the Great Commotion.
If he is wise he won’t" go into that question,
but will switch off on to a siding and point
out that, since this bank belongs to the
people, any profit it made out of them was
merely a transfer from one pocket to another.
Though the war is over this bank can, by
reason of its great resources and official
status, make a fine score still in the game of
exchange. Denison Miller is an expert at
that, and has kept himself well-informed as
to recent developments by wandering about
the earth instead of tying himself down to
his head-office. There never was a time when
world-commerce was so disturbed; which
means, of course, that there never was a
time when the man who knew how to handle
foreign exchange and had the means could
make so much money. See what it means.
Take 10 golden sovereigns to Italy and
instead of getting the old 252 lire for them
you can get about 420. But take the same
10 golden sovereigns to N’York, and instead
of getting the old 48 dollars-odd you can get
only about 42. In other words, so many
more payments on British account have to
be made in America than have to be made
on American account in Britain that our
sovereign is worth less than par in the place
where it is too abundant; but in Italy, which
is heavily in Britain’s debt, the ’->osition is
reversed. It is a harvest for the great inter-
national financier ; and it is something almost
to chuckle over that you and the writer,
through our Commonwealth Bank, have
joined the Rothschilds in this big game.
Meanwhile, well aware that this harvest
won’t last for ever, the Commonwealth Bank
is laying itself out to expand its domestic
business; and its ordinary advances exhibit a
rapid increase:—
Liabilities.
June,’l4. Dec.,’lß. June,’l9.
Deposits, etc.
(ordinary) . . £5,114,161 £52,279,018 £45,320,545
Deposits (savings) 268 16,125,050 17,789,423
Assets.
Coin and money
at short call .. 5,110,946 20,275,557 17,052,759
Commonwealth
notes.. .. 41,025 15,751,256 11,473,598
Public securities 2,818,981 15,747,293 15,646,021
Advances .. 1,713,101 17,857,798 20,558,594
Premises .. 38,379 306,462 307,966
Our misfortune is that this money which has
gone into the bank during the last few years
isn’t all or nearly all real money. It is
for the most part paper —p.n.’s and lOU’s.
It is very doubtful whether, in spite of the
tremendous increase in the deposit figures of
this bank and the large increase’in the de-
posit figures of most other Australian banks,
we are not much poorer than we were seven
years ago. The only thing that has changed
much in our favor is that, because of the
advance in prices, we could now pay our
foreign interest and wipe off foreign debt
with much less produce (wool, wheat, metals,
etc.) than would have been required a few
years ago. It is, consequently, the time
when we ought to be straining every effort
to reduce that debt. We shall probably
never have such an opportunity again. But,
of course, we are doing nothing of the sort.
It means hard work and self-denial; and at
the moment we are inclined for neither.
And it means other things which are no
good to tne oarty politician who ctoesn t
know any way of getting votes except by
purchase.
Possibly the Commonwealth Bank isn’t
the biggest of the attractions which are
bringing Premier Ryan, of Queensland, into
Federal politics, but it must certainly be a
big one. It isn’t a partially-exhausted mine
like the note-issue, but an almost virgin
deposit. Among the class of Laborites to
w'hom Ryan appeals a complete re-organisa-
tion of the bank on “democratic lines
would be very popular. In fact, though it
is the Bank of Ail the People, owned and
controlled by and earning big profits for
Aii the People, and no private capitalist
•owns in his private capacity a stick or stone
of it, a certain kind of “advanced” Labonte
is accustomed to denounce_ it as a grievous
disappointment and an engine of capitalistic
tyranny. The institution takes no account
of Labor movements or any other move
ments, or of politicians or unions or caucuses
or bosses or elections, anu its funds aren t
available for enterprises that don t pay.
Under the kind of friendly management
which Ryan introduced into the Queensland
railways, the vast funds ought to be appli-
cable for a lot of things that await doing to
make an all-Australian razzle after the
fashion of the Queensland razzle, but bigger.
And there wouM be more smoking on the
premises than there is now, and more casual
turning over of the ledgers to look at the
accounts of political opponents, and a more
brotherly tendency to call the manager Bill
whether his name was Bill or otherwise.
* * * *
The Melbourne Steamship Cos.
Added Nomi-
Gross to Re- nal Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., '’ll. .£12,968 9 p.c. = £7,650 £5,318£104,977
June, ’12.. 17,900 9 „ „ 7,650 10,250 115,227
Premiums on new shares. . 6,300 122,027
£SOOO written off .. •• 117,027
Dec., ’12.. 8,715 7 p.c. = 0,843 1,872 118,899
June, ’13.. 20,107 8 „ „ 8,160 11,947 130,846
Dec., ’13.. 21,164 8 „ „ 8,100 13,004 143,850
June, ’14.. 16,966 7 ~ ~ 7,140 9,826 153,676
Pref. Ord. Total.
Dec., ’14.. 17,409 6p.c. Bp.c. 8,463 8,946 162,022
June, ’15.. 29,371 0 „ 15 „ 16,079 13,292 175,914
Transferred to capital, £51,000 121,914
Dec., ’15.. 32,433 6p.c. lOp.C. 13,530 18.903 143,817
June. ’lO.. 33,045 6 „ 10 „ 13,530 19,515 163,332
Dec., ’16.. 27,598 6 „ 10 „ 13,030 14,063 177,400
June, ’17.. 29,201 6 „ 10 „ 13,530 15,671 193,071
Dec., ’17.. 48.950 6 „ 10 „ 13,530 35,420 228,491
June,’lß.. 32,406 6 „ 10 ~ 13,530 18,936 247,427
Transferred to capital, £85,000 162,427
Dec., ’lB,. 30,593 6p.c. lOp.c. 15,655 14,938 177,365
June,’l9.. 32,018 6 „ 10 „ 17,780 14,238 191,603
This poor sliipping co. had a rough passage
during the half-year to June 30 last. “The
very heavy cost of repairs and the mari-
time strike,” says the report, “having re-
duced the amount available in profit and
loss account for the half-year below the
amount necessary for the dividend, the
directors have drawn on the balance brought
forward to make good the deficiency.” But
the directors make no claim that this vague
“amount available” is the true net profit
for the period. According to the P. and L.
account it wo,uld appear that the co. made
only £17,139 ; but that was after setting aside
amounts for insurance, renewals, deprecia-
tion and possibly for contingencies. A com-
parison of the latest balance-sheet figures
with those of six months previously shows
that a visible £14,879 was added to these
various reserves during the period, making
gross profits of £32,018 as shown in the
table. It is impossible for an outsider to
say what is a fair allowance to make for de-
preciation, etc., each half, but this table
shows what the management has added to
these reserves for each term since the war
began
Additions to
Additions Reserves for
to Depreciation,
Insurance Renewals and
Reserve. Contingencies.
Dec., 1914 .. .. £1322 £7,000
June, 1915 .. .. ' 1445 11,500
June, 1916 .. .. 1585 7,952
Dec., 1916 .. .. 5928 8,100
June, 1917 .. .. 7189 16,943
Dec., 1917 .. .. 6845 30,064
June, 1918 .. .. 7199 10,000
v ——
Dec., 1918 .. .. 14,677
June, 1919 . . . . 6560 8.319
Why the insurance fund should now require
contributions four or five times greater than
those of the early-war terms is not at all
dear. But are these appropriations made
solely for insurance purposes? Only within
the past 12 months .apparently something
like £20,000 was extracted from this accumu-
lation to help out an £85.000 bonus-share
distribution, a plain admission that the
management had been piling up greater
amounts than were actually required. In
.other words, the co. had been making more
profits than it had admitted. As the first
table shows, it is only four years since an-
other lot of £51,000 of accumulated reserves
was also capitalised.
For several years prior to the war the
Melbourne S. S. Cos. was paying divs. aver-
aging 8 p.c. Since then it has issued
£26,000 of pref. capital and increased its
ordinary capital from £204,000 to £340,000
out of reserves. Now, with a reduced fleet
—the Kapunda, Sydney and Brisbane, ag-
gregating 6205 tons, have been sold —the co.
is paying 6 p.c. to the prefs. and 10 p.c.
to the ordinaries, the latter rate being equal
to 15 p.c. on the money actually put up by
shareholders. So, even though industrial
and other troubles have reduced the “amount
available” a few hundreds below the liberal
dividend requirement, the co. cannot extract
many tears. Very clearly it made profits
during the war far in excess of what the
Commonwealth Government should have al-
lowed, and the matter is aggravated by the
fact that the coastal fleets were alleged to
be under the “control” of the same Govern-
ment which harassed innocent young cos.
with war-time profits legislation.
Since the December, 1914, balance no new
vessels have been added to the fleet, but the
three mentioned above have been sold. These
sales, together with the sweet profits thereon
and the accumulations in various reserves,
have built up the liquid surplus in great
style, as this comparison shows: —
Dec.,’l4. Dec.,’lß. June,’l9.
Liquid assets .. »« £68,819 £334,400 £328,655
Liabilities .. *• 63,830 83,405 1 5,496
Surplus .. £4,989 £250,995 £253,159
Steamships and other non-
liquid assets £393,450 £301,761 £322,724
Despite the troubles of the past six months,
the co.’s balance-sheet figures show an im-
provement of £23,127 for the period. Over
41 years £70,726 of fixed assets have dis-
appeared from the books, but meantime
£248.170 has been added to more or less
liquid assets, after paying handsome divi-
dends.
* * * *
The Chamber of Manufactures Insur-
ance Ltd. (Melbourne) :
Bonus to Re-
Sent , Profits. Dividends. Policy-holders, serves.
1915.. £9.699 10 p.c. =£2372 £4,311 £3,016
1910’. . 6,727 10 „ „ 2625 2,438 4.680
1917.. 23.506 10 „ „ 3000 13,397 11,789
1918.. 21.917 10 „ „ 3000 16,475 14,231
1919.. 21,118 10 „ „ 3237 15,557 16,555
Take no notice of the shrinkage, of profits
since 1917. In each of the two years since
then considerable reductions have been made
in workmen’s compensation rates, and pro-
portionally smaller underwriting surpluses
have resulted. Splendid progress has really
been made by this manufacturers’ insurance
co., as can be seen from the following com-
parison :
Net Loss Expense
Premiums. Claims. Exes. Ratio. Ratio.
1915. . £31,907 £6,027 £3490 18.9 p.c. 10.6 p.c.
1916* 29,670 9,881 2633 33.3 ~ 8.9 ~
1917.. 43,182 14,497 3444 33.6 „ 8.0 „
1918.. 55,011 21,310 6003' 38.8 „ 12.0 „
1919.. 69,053 34,921 7593 50.6 „ 11.0 „
*Nine months.
Gross premiums have grown in this way:
1917, £43,182; 1918, £74,292; 1919, £96,990
—a surprising expansion, considering the
accident-rate reductions. Nowadays, how-
ever, the co. is handling fire, marine and
other lines, and manufacturers are appa-
rently loyally supporting their own office. But
the effect of the smaller premiums from
workmen’s compensation business is shown
in the increased loss rate for the past year.
The big feature of this office, though, is the
wonderfully low expense rate. Unlike other
concerns, this co. does not spend much in pur-
suing business; expenses (including taxes
and contributions to fire brigades) take only
11 p.c. of net premiums, compared with
the 17 p.c. of the cheaply-run Vic. State
Accident Office, while in the case of other
cos. which have to hustle- for business an
expense rate of 30 p.c. is not unusual. The
Chamber of Manufactures Insurance can
thus show' a proportionately larger under-
writing surplus than other concerns, which
means that there is more available f6v
strengthening reserves and for the distrilmi-
tion of bonuses among policy-holders. Last
year, despite the heavier loss rate, the under-
writing surplus represented no less than
38.4 p.c. of net premiums.
After providing for unexpired risks, the
co. was able to pay the usual 10 p.c. div.,
bond .£3040 t<> the Chamber of Manufactures,
distribute £15,557 in bonuses to policy-
holders and tack £2324 to general reserves.
The bonuses distributed represented 20 p.c.
on workmen’s compensation premiums
(apart from the 10 p.c. discount), 20 p.c.
on marine premiums, (in addition to 15 p.c.
discount), 20 p.c. on public risk, plate-
glass, fidelity guarantee, personal sickness
and boiler explosion business, and 10 p.c.
on motor-car insurances. Altogether the co.’s
performances during the five years it has
been in existence are a fine advertisement for
co-operative effort. Vic. manufacturers have
not only built up a strong little office to do
their insurance at cost price, but the parent
Chamber has also benefited to the extent of
£9236 in cash, besides being installed in com-
fortable quarters.
At June 30 the co., after providing for all
liabilities, including outstanding claims, had
funds of £81,519 to protect policies. In
other words, the management had resources
capable of meeting claims equal to the aggre-
gate losses of the past four years. Or.
measuring the co.’s strength in another way.
there were funds equal to 11S p.c. of last
year’s net premiums. Considering the youth
of the concern and its very rapid growth,
this proportion is not at all bad. There is
£05,761 invested in freehold premises, etc-.,
but £42,400 of that is owing on mortgage.
Apart from £12,325 due by sundry debtors,
the remaining assets, £65,447, consist wholly
of War Loan and cash.
* • • t
The conclusions arrived at by the Com-
mission which inquired very exhaustively
into the affairs of Sydney Ferries agree
pretty closely with those to which this
column has come in its reviews of the co.’s
accounts. (1) There has been no stock-
watering, to this extent, that the capital,
even when increased by bonus shares, has
been represented by assets. But that it has
been possible to issue bonus shares while
good dividends were being paid is proof
that charges formerly were too high. (2)
It should be necessary for the co. to justify
its charges. The Bulletin long ago sug-
gested that the co. should invite two repre-
sentatives of the North Shore municipalities
to join the Board. The Commission seems
to have its eye on the Board of Trade as
the proper authority to authorise changes
in fares. Whether the Board of Trade
would be in as good a position to secure
changes when conditions justified them is
open to question. (3) At the same time
as it comes under close regulation the co.
should be given some security of tenure. In
other words, it shouldn’t be possible for it
to claim that 8 or 10 p.c. isn’t too much
for it to pay because it is liable to sudden
disturbance —even displacement. For the
rest (though this is of less importance), the
Commission thinks the recent increases were
justified in the abnormal circumstances, but
believes that they will be more than sufficient
to give the co. a fair dividend in normal
circumstances.
* * * #
Elder Smith and Cos., Ltd., S. Australia’s
most influential firm, has entered into “an
important business arrangement” by which
it becomes managing agents and attorneys
for one of the biggest fire-insurance cos. out-
side Australia. Is it a fair thing that the
capital put up by Australians, and the
organisation which it has bought and paid
for, should be used for any such purpose?
If the co. wants to do insurance business and
can’t arrange a satisfactory agency with an
Australian office, then it is open to this or
any other Australian co. to establish an
insurance branch or business of its
own, just as it established a trustee
co. some years ago. But to go out
in the interests of a foreign co. in
competition with Australian offices, owned,
it is reasonable to assume, in part by share-
holders of its own, seems to be a thing that,
is neither worthy of the co. nor good busi-
ness. One thing at any rate is sure: Elder
Smith’s can now never seek for business of
any kind on the ground that it is an Aus-
tralian or a S. Australian office.
* • • •
Some very wild spirits representing the
Westralian base-metal industry bearded
the Federal Government last week, and as
a result a promise has been made that the
West shall be allowed to export ores to
England, if such ores cannot be treated in
Australia at the parity of English treat-
ment cost. The Government announcement
that Westralia must be given differential
treatment by reason of its geographical
position is election tripe, and nothing else.
The fact is those wild spirits from the West
simply told the Federal authorities that un-
less permission was given to export then-
ores, Perth would unquestionably go anti-
Nationalist in the ensuing election. The
authorities saw danger ahead and capitu-
lated. But now what about Australian in-
dustries —the great industry of smelting,
refining and metal manufacture? Because,
having, “for geographical reasons,” con-
ceded Westralia the right to export, its
copper and lead ores, Hughes cannot
logically refuse similar permission to all the
North Queensland and Papuan producers.
Similarly Tasmania can justly ask for the
right to export. In fact, no producer can
logically be denied the right to export his
dirt. Hughes started out with a policy of
encouraging local metal-production which
practically everybody approved. But in
giving effect to that policy he surrounded
himself with muddlers who messed up his
policy. Now, at the first sign of election
trouble, Hughes proposes to abandon his


Wolfram, Scheelite
and Molybdenite.
PRICES AT PRODUCING CENTRES:
MOLYBDENITE:
85 per cent, or over, 100/- for each
unit MoS2.
WOLFRAM AND SCHEELITE.
65 per cent, or over, 52/6 for each
unit WO®.
Enquiries Invited relative to
LOWER GRADES of the above
Minerals.
DALGETY S CO. LTD.,
Commonwealth Government Agents.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Co. Ltd.
The ** M.Iv.C.”
Probate Contract.
THE INVESTMENT TO MEET THE
INEVITABLE DEATH DUTIES.
As a man's wealth accumulates he
should assist his executors by taking out
one of these contracts. They are issued
on a basis highly profitable to his estate,
besides providing the necessary cash ti>
meet the very substantial Death Duties
(State or Federal) on deceased estates,
without disturbing existing investments,
or necessitating heavy borrowing for
the purpose, a course which is bound
to involve a lengthy delay in the distri-
bution of the estate to the Legatees.
JOHN J. GAR VAN;
Managing Director.
The advantage of having battery charging current
on tap in the home garage is now within the reach
of every motorist. The G.E. Mercury Arc Battery
Charger makes any ordinary lighting circuit a source
of energy for starting, lighting, and ignition bat-
teries. Its cost is a mere trifle compared with the
convenience and economy of home charging. An
overnight boosting charge every few weeks' will not
only increase the efficiency of a battery, but will
also lengthen the life of the plates. You should
get one of these outfits. Australian General Electric-
Company, Wentworth Avenue, Sydney : and corner of
Queen and Little Collins Streets, Melbourne.— Advt.
Aluminoferric works wonders! One pound will
clarify 2000 gallons of water. You throw it into
the water and allow it to dissolve. In about two
hours all the impurities will start to precipitate and
the water will be left clear and pure. Will not
harm cattle or stock. Use it in very small propor-
tions when clearing water for household use. Sold
by storekeepers everywhere—or direct from William
Adams & Co. Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane, Perth.— Advt. [2
* * * *
Modern methods of metal concentration require
fine and efficient grinding devices, and the tube mill
is becoming more widely used every day. Present
conditions prohibit the importation of machinery
from abroad, so that we have to fall back on our
home manufactures. The Austral Otis Engineering
Co. of Melbourne manufacture tube mills of any size,
as well as grinding machines of every description.
They are also makers of the famous Hardinge Conical
Mills, which have made a name for themselves in
America.— Advt. [ i
Pioneer W’ood Pipe.-—Copy of letter received from
the Anchor Tin Mine, Ltd., Lottah, dated .lune 2:-!,
1914: “Dear Sirs,—The Wood Pipes supplied by you
in May, 1910, have proved satisfactory in every way.
They were easily handled, took little labor or skill
to lay, developed no leaks, and show no sign of
deterioration. (Sgd.) .James B. Lewis, general
manager.’’ Send for our illustrated catalogue. The
Australian Wood Pipe Companv Limited, (11.0. i
Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W. Contractors
to all State Governments.— Advt.
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink's Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 5036. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney ; tel. City 2723. — Advt.
♦ * # #
Mining: and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grirnwade and Co. Sample
minders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock!
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
oliice: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.— Advt.
» * » »
The high rates of wages now being paid make it
necessary for companies handling material to adopt
the latest labor-saving devices, and Arthur Leplas-
trier & Co., Circular Quay, Sydney, who maintain an
engineering department specially for the design of
elevating and conveying machinery with a view to
minimising hand-labor, thus reducing the cost of
handling, are prepared to submit proposals for plants
suitable for any service. Queensland inquiries: The
Australian Machinery Co., Mary Street, Brisbane.—
Advt.
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Paten
obtained. Codlison & Co.. 483 Collins Street, Me
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty vears’ practice Wri
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * » .
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Asss
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowe
JSSSI t” 11 -or write for particulars. 11. B. Selbv &Cc
Ltd., 260 George Street (between Hunter anil Bor
Stleets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street, Melb.—Anv
T. H. Palmer, 8.E., Fel. Chem. Soe., etc.,’consul
i™ * I*s’,, valm organising, technical advie
“S'P’, flotation and selective flotatic
piocesses, Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 Pi
Me r i e bm’,rnZ”-ADVT. CaWCR ** Tple^rams: “ Re " lla J
ANTED TO PURCHASE:
ONE OR MORE
KRUPP BALL MILLS
OR SETS
CRUSHING ROLLS.
Send particulars of condition, price and
locality to
Box 1107 G.P.0., AUCKLAND, N.Z.
>
$
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Loss of Profits
insure in
Tke 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital .. £250,000
Subscribed Capital .. 194,235
Paid-up Capital .. 96,497
Income (Cross) 1918 .. 457,852
Established WtO.
'aaiNVM SIN39V
Blanches in every State.
Writs lor particulars.
\V. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
A, Victor Leggo & Co.
Melbourne —Sydney—Brisbane.
Manufacturers Metallurgists Merchants.
Exporters and Importers.
Specialties: INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS, INDUSTRIAL MINERALS,
ORES, METALS AND RAW MATERIALS.
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Other Goods.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
macerated policy. True, while freights are
both scarce and high, as at present, it will
not be possible to export much of our ore,
but those conditions will not always pre-
vail. Hughes may preach a White Aus-
tralia, but he is practising a Black Protec-
tion; and it will bring this country to a
standstill. His job is, not to open the door
so that work may flow out of Australia, but.
to see that the producers get a fair deal from
the local smelters.
* » » •
Ornis ; Will W. M. Hughes explain
why exporters of ingot tin to Maoriland
have still to apply to the Metal Exchange
tor permission to ship, backing up the ap-
phcation with a copy of the invoice certi-
ned by two members of the exporting
firm? A toll charge of Is. per cent, is de-
manded to register each shipment. The
shippers’ troubles are not at an end even
then, for the Exchange insists that a Cus-
toms certificate accompany the papers to the
purchaser, to be returned after being signed
by some responsible official at the port of
entry. This certificate has then to be handed
to the Registrar of the Exchange. There
may have been good reasons for all this flum-
mery during the war. but: to continue it for
nearly 12 months afterwards is absurd. It
merely means that the industry has to sup-
port more parasites.
The market has the sniffs over Edna Cen-
tral. This started after the half-yearly
tally was made up, yet it can’t be the fault
ot the cash position, for there is over £20,000
in the locker, most of it solid cash, and all
that is owed is £1250. Of course, the divvy
record is poor. When a mine outputs
£203,000 gold from 124,000 tons, and can only
muster up £OOOO in divs. ; there is just cause
for sorrow. Yet the mine has been a good
go for those who have used the advantages
Put their way. When it was realised that
to depend on the Edna shoot meant desola-
tion, up popped the New reef, and when the
water washed Giblin out of that section of
the mine he was able to side-track to the
east and pick up the Middle and the Main
reefs as they peeped over the boundary of the
Consolidated, and was rewarded with higher
gold contents. Therefore the Central crowd
has no reason to argue, as some of them do,
that luck has been against them. Chairman
Snowball has got to close quarters with
Edna May over the purchase of some of its
pumping plant whenever that mine gives up
the ghost; but the purchase of pumps is
a small item compared with the cost of hold-
ing the water at Westonia. Mining and
milling take no more to-day than six months
ago. and the charge for development, drains,
<*tc., is down by os. per ton for the half-year.
.Still practically 38s. per ton is required to
cover all costs. This is what gives the bears
pluck. All the ore in reserve is 14,000
tons, or about eight months’ run for the bat-
tery ; and as the stone is nearly all in the Middle
reef, which has a record for playing tricks
at. the mill, the margin of prospective profit
is not big enough to be at all satisfy-
ing. Another level should, however, add to
ore reserves. So far as the water problem
is concerned Deeps may yet have to come in
as a pumping contributor, despite all Stuck-
ey’s skill ; but there is a possibility that th >
bulkheading of the levels may make the
water problem easier than imagined. Still
there is a want of confidence somewhere,
which will only disappear should good stone
be got in the No. 5 crosscut now being put
out for the Consolidated and the New Reefs.
Two Melbourne syndicates, in which
Dorric Doolette and Fred Tricks figure,
have taken options at Broad Arrow, where
gold is sticking out of the stone in places,
in preference to Hampton Plains, where
comparatively little gold is visible. Both
the optioned ventures have turned out
well to date. Nearby is the Hill
End, from which ' two prospectors ob-
tained 2000 oz. in the early days and
then sold out to a French crowd for
£25,000. The Frenchmen crushed 19,0000 z.
out of 8000 tons, and were followed
by a. London co., which obtained a
further 27,5700 z. from 31,000 tons. Tri-
butors afterwards got out several 3oz. to
4oz. crushings, and the career of the mine
as a producer then finished. At one time
Broad Arrow was thought to have a great
future. The reefs were expected to prove
valuable, and the alluvial leads were tipped
to produce tons of gold. But the reefs, as
a whole, fell far short of expectations, and
the alluvial deposits were soon worked out.
Some rich finds have, however, been made
on the field since then.
London wants tin l Celebration lease,
Hampton Plains, and is said to be prepared
to pay a big price. Some of the option-
holders are, agreeable to sell on a cash and
share-interest basis, but at least one wants
to see more development done before parting
with the show. Meantime values are keep-
ing up well in the Celebration, and the lode
has now been proved south by means of
costeens to the boundary. North of the
shaft, where the overburden is considerable,
practically nothing has been done on the sur-
face, but at 100 ft. a drive is being steadily
pushed out in that direction.
Hampton Properties, Ltd., which owns
Block 50, on which the Celebration is situ-
ated, increased its capital the other day to
half a million sterling by the issue of some
134,000 odd £1 shares. One crowd, sup-
posed to he headed by Lionel Robinson, took
up half of the issue, and has an option on
the balance.
* * * *
Kyarra, which gave up gold-mining near
Meekatharra (W.A.) some time ago, has
come to light again and started work on an
optioned lease at Hampton Plains. This
fact, coupled with a fairly sound financial
position, has led to inquiries for shares and
caused the market to move up. About a
dozen other disappointed Westralian cos. have,
also acquired interests on the new field, but
there is not enough capital among the lot to
properly open up and equip even one good
mine if found. Only the gambler should
dream of taking shares in a mining venture
which is not provided from the start with
sufficient working capital. On a field like
Hampton Plains few mines, if any, could
be developed and equipped on a sound scale
for less than £30,000, and even if results
were favorable further large amounts would
perhaps still have to be provided by share-
holders. Yet cos. with small nominal capi-
tals have been formed on the basis of Is. per
share on application and Is. on allotment.
This hand-to-mouth method of attempting to
finance a mine is merely looking for trouble
and should be prohibited by law.
* * *■ *
Scantlebury’s death has been fol-
lowed in Westralia by a lot of badly-informed
newspaper talk as to deceased’s connection
with the gold-stealing revelations. This is
what actually happened. Learning soon
after his arrival in Kalgoorlie of the enor-
mous extent of the robbery that was going-
on, he first saw the local inspector of police,
Capt. Newlands, and then Warden Pinnerty.
Both corroborated what he had been told, and
Pinnerty added that the value of the plunder
exceeded a million pounds a year. That
night the story 'was compressed by me into
a half-column interview and telegraphed to
the Perth,' Adelaide, Melbourne and Sydney
dailies. The Adelaide Register, however,
was the only one which published a full
account, the others apparently doubting the
truth of the allegations. A 250-word cable
was also despatched to the British Aits,
thalasian. of which Scantlebury was then
editor, but was never printed, apparently
being vetoed by Hoover, who had a big say
in the paper’s control at that time, As some
parts of Kalgoorlie reminded him of a mining
district in Italy, where it was easy to get one
man knifed for £2 and two for £3, Scantle-
bury left the day the interview was published
and never returned. He never met Detective-
sergeant Kavanagh, who backed up his
statement and who took a prominent part in
the subsequent Royal Commission of Inquiry.
Scantlebury apparently knew nothing about
the extent of the thieving until his arrival at
Kalgoorlie. Other men more prominent in
the mining world had previously been asked
to make it public, but they side-stepped the
job.
* * # *
Tehidy Minerals, Ltd., a Cousin Jack ven-
ture in which Great Eingall and other
busted Westralian cos. are interested, has
just acquired, at a cost of £200,000, a second
mineral estate in Cornwall which has an area
of 25,000 acres and is alleged to contain
deposits of the finest china clay, in addition
to tin and other minerals. This purchase is
said to make the co. the largest proprietor
of tin and china-clay deposits in the U.K.
* * -;t
Starting in 1911 with four years’ work
ahead of the dredge, Tongkah Compound,
with the assistance of judicious purchases
of new ground, is still pegging away. So
far 4,555.744 c. yds. have been handled,
giving 3300 tons tin, worth £386,949 net.
Some of the ground has given 32.5 and. per
c. yd., and the lowest grade dredged was in
1914-15, when values got down to 104 and. per
yd. Costs for a long time kept at a shade
above 5d., but the last 18 months have seen
them up to over 9d. per lb., due to war
conditions. Dividend distributions , total
£216,250. or £1 Bs. lOd. ner share on 150,000
shares of 6s. Bd. Now the Compound’s home
paddock is about worked out, and the plant
is to go to the Tongkah Compound No. 2
Co.’s block near Seremban. There, of 450
acres held, 117 acres are said to go .931 b.
oxide per yd. This is not up to the average
of the Compound wash, but is a good pay
grade. The present co. holds 82,400 of the
100,000 shares in the No. 2 concern.
* * * #
Even now Blythe River Iron Mines, Ltd.,
hasn’t lost all hope. The report by the
Commonwealth Government’s expert was “a
great disappointment” ; but it is now a case
of one lot of experts against another lot.
“The only way to determine the real value
of the property,” the directors say in a
circular to shareholders, “is to make further
and sufficient exploration and tests. With
that object we are now in communication
with the Tas. Government, asking its
co-operation and financial assistance.’’
* * * *
was Cecil Ryan’s chief
trouble at the Pioneer, Bradshaw’s Creek
(Tas.). during the year to June 30. This
compares the term’s results with those of
1918, giving also the co.’s record over 19
years
Oxide
Sluiced Costs won Average
c. yd. c. yd. tons. c. vd.
1918 . . . . 702,600 4.855 and. 302 J 0.9651 b.
1919 .. .. 534,800 6.162 and. 27211 1.1421 b.
1900 to 1919 9,914,300 0.874 and. 7022 1.5861 b.
In addition to the old Pioneer claim the co.
owns the Argonaut and the Pioneer South.
These are small shows, though profitable.
Including work done on these areas, the co.
has sluiced altogether 10,761,000 cub. yds.
for 7330 tons tin oxide. Average costs,
thanks to the skill with which Ryan has run
the group, have been 5.891 and. per cub. yd.,
while the average tin contents have been
1.5261 b. per yd. The year’s reduced yardage and
the high price of supplies and shortage of
labor increased costs by about l£d. per
yd. That a better average was got from
the drift was because Ryan had plenty of
bottom ground to work on. Yet in the face
of a lower yield divs. equal to 20 p.c. went
to shareholders. After paying that there
was left £13,500 of unsold tin to come and
go on, not to mention stores set down at
£7OOO.
* * * »
Considering the greasy nature of the
schists at Mt. Lyell and the very heavy rain-
fall, the wonder is not that a big slip has
occurred at the open cut, but that there
was not one long ago. That they have
been averted is due to the fact that Robert
Sticht has always kept good men to watch
over his engineering work. Except through
fire, loss of life at the mines at Queenstown
has been small. However, it will not take
long to open up a fresh drive through the
55,000 tons which recently slipped, blocking
the No. 5 tunnel. Sticht and his directors
have gone to Hobart to arrange terms with
the Speck’s Government in connection with
the King River electric scheme.
* * * •
Latrobe shale deposit (Tas.) is about to
move, managing-director Richards having at
last interested the Navy Minister with a
proposition to supply crude oil f.o.b. Devon-
port at £4 10s. per ton. A contract is likely,
which means the installation of equipment
as recommended by Dr. Wade, with pipe-
line delivery direct from the works to the
oil-boat at Devonport. Wade estimated a
yield by distillation of 40gals. per ton
shale at a cost of 10s., which, upon further
distillation, would yield 12gals. of various
high-grade spirits and oils, with a residue
of 26gals. of fuel oil. Reasonable profit
seems assured if these figures can be main-
tained,
* # * *
Everything is not well at Magnet silver
(Tas.). Extensive delays have occurred
with the installation of the hydro-electric
plant and new dam, and though the plant
is ready, the dam has developed leaks, which
in a mud-rubble wall is a serious matter.
Underground the shoot has been proved to
be shortening, though the ore is maintain-
ing its width and good quality. The No. 14
crosscut; which is to be run directly will
give reliable information as to the probable
apex of this shoot. Development work along
the persisting ore plane bas not been under-
taken for years, and is called for.
* * * *
The well-organised gamble in White
Crystal, Ardletlian, shares continues, and
there was a big advance in the stock last
week. Anticipations of a dividend in the
near future are said to “account for a con-
siderable buying force,” If this be true
the position reflects no credit on the policy
of the management or on the Exchange
which tacitly endorses it. No information
is given to shareholders as to the basis on
which such an anticipation is founded; in-
deed, there has been no official report for
months past to indicate even that the mine
is being worked. . The boomsters have whis-
perings in circulation that a “highly favor-
able report” has been made privately by a
mining man who has had experience in
dredging and sluicing, but such experience
might be of little value in relation to lode
tin-mining, which, at best, is most erratic,
and involves considerations totally distinct
from those which govern alluvial mining.
Anyhow, it is time the directors had some-
thing to say.
*' * * '*
The Mount Barney molybdenite deposit,
between Grafton and Glen Innes (N.S.W.).
is to be given a go by a co. with a nominal
capital of £60,000. A. E. Baker says the
deposit is a “true-fissure” one, and the pro-
moters think they see three-quarters of a
million pounds’ worth of metal in the hill.
* * * *
.The shipping strike did Jumbunna coal,
Dippsland (Vic.), a good turn by putting a
few hundreds of profit in the balance-sheet.
It may be required for the removal of
the main hauling plant to a more
suitable position. The output fails to
get above 20,000 tons for the year, illus-
trating how modest a trier is this Gipps-
land mine. The seam runs at about Bft.. and
the coal is tip-top stuff, but what with faults
and water costs cannot be got down. So
divs. seem remote.
High-grade ore still continues to show up
in the Mt. Oxide (Q.) 300 ft. level. The
last 44ft. of driving south has been on a
body Oft. wide, with no footw r all exposed,
and of an average grade of 14.5 p.c. copper.
( Wild Cat’' continued oh page 26.)


THE ELEPHANT AND HIS KEEPERS.


J%// Zlnanimoizs
ABBOTS LAGER.
THE DRINK OF GOOD FELLOWSHIP
finph'pdfrom
Pure7/d/fi/fop? On/p
» J
THE DEAF HEAR!
The Joy and Happiness
of perfect hearing are
only appreciated by
those who have lost it.
The
Mears Earphone
makes it yours. The
Latest Model 96-Tone
Mears Earphone
fgd
In the hollow of the
hand or attached to
ear with light head
band.
with its great range of
tone and power, can be regulated by a touch
of the finger to suit the hearing for every
occasion, and for all stages of deafness.
The MEARS EARPHONE catches and inten-
sifies even the least whisper, and enables the
deaf to hear lectures, sermons and plays clear-
ly and distinctly. Small, compact, and incon-
spicuous. The MEARS EARPHONE is
recommended by leading Aurists, and many
prominent Australian citizens have had the
Mears Earphone in daily use for Seven
Years, with .continued satisfaction.
A Lengthy Guarantee with each Instrument
FREE TRIAL I
Call and test it, or write for booklet post free.
The Mears Earphone Co., Bernard’s Bldgs.,
Tel. 3916 City. 387 George Street, Sydney.
Hotel Sydney
The Spacious Dining
Hall is a Rendezvous
of Eminence for
LUNCHEONS
and
DINNERS.
ITEMS—
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA.
CHARfIING ROOF GARDEN.
Management E. T. CHEESEMAN.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Ryan, of Queensland, has started another
libel action, against the Hobart Mercury
this time. He is working up quite a prac-
tice at the bar.
MELBOURNE'S NEW LORD MAYOR
AIRMAN.
Alfred Deakin’s literary executor is his
son-in-law, Herbert Brookes, who has on
hand a large quantity of material which he
intends incorporating in a biography. He is
anxious to hear from anyone who can help
him with letters, records, anecdotes or remin-
iscences. Although Herbert Brookds is
known to the public chiefly through his as-
sociation with the Chamber of Manufac-
tures and various business enterprises, his
father-in-law had a high opinion of his
literary qualifications. He is an omnivo-
rous reader, as Deakin w T as.
The new Gaud Mayor of Melbourne com-
menced his working life at 12 or thereabouts
as a printer’s devil.
John Mark Davies, the late President of
the Vic. House of Landlords, left £21,000.
In the days of the old boom he was reckoned
among the near-millionaires.
The resignation of Thomas J. Ryan for
the Barcoo (Q.) recalls the retirement of
another Tom Ryan from the same electorate.
Thomas primus was returned after the big
sheapirs’ strike in 1891, and was the first
Laborite to find a seat in the West. But
access to the “finest club in the land” proved
too much for him. In his own phrase, he
“couldn’t stand oats.” After one Parlia-
ment he returned to the sheds.
The Vic. Parliamentary Library’s Bible
Concordance was in request, last week,
Donald Mackinnon having interjected, while
Prendergast was speaking, that “coney” was
a Biblical term. Prendergast said that
rabbit-fur w T as sold as coney, and that many
people did not know what the word meant.
“That’s the result of not having Bible-read-
ing in State schools,” remarked Donald,
who. is a pillar of C.ollins-street kirk.
Mention of Con-
cordances in asso-
ciation with poli-
tics recalls that
when George
Turner and Charlie
Kingston were put-
ting in time wait-
ing for King (then
Duke) George to
open the first Com-
monwealth Parlia-
ment they bor-
rowed a pin and
pricked the edge of
a swear-them-in
Bible to see what
texts they’d strike.
Turner touched one
in the Old Testa-
ment relating to a
treasury chest.
Minister
Grahams's
Counsel, WATT,
examines a
witness before
the Wheat
Commission.
A Sydney neurologist has another word: —
The daily bulletins regarding- the condition of
President V ilson are so clear and concise that it is
difficult to understand how the rumors of a sudden
cerebral lesion obtained credence in Washington.
Some people who were anxious to get to business
were apparently unaware that complete rest in bed
is the chief curative agent in functional diseases of
the nervous system, especially when accompanied with
loss of sleep. They began to be suspicious when
Dr. Dercum insisted on a further extension of the
patient’s stay in bed; but when it was definitely
stated that the President’s pulse, respiration, tem-
perature and blood-pressure had been normal since
the inception of the malady, there was no need for
alarm. The cables expressly stated that there were
no signs of interference with the functions of the
kidneys, a very important matter, since most brain
lesions occurring in people between 50 and 70 have
their origin in kidney mischief. Dr. Dercum, no
doubt, made several ophthalmoscopic examinations,
as did the ophthalmic physician whom Dr. Grayson
called in. They very easily could have detected
the peculiar retinal inflammation that would have
revealed a kidney lesion, but nothing of the kind
was reported. Indications of other brain lesions
(jf any) would most likely have been visible to this
instrument;, so it is safe to assume that the Presi-
dent is making satisfactory progress.
From the Bar table
Adrian Knox should make a great Chief Justice.
He belongs to a type which is coznmoner in England
than in Australia, or, indeed, anywhere else in the
world. Alverstone and Russell (both L.C.J.’s) were
among the many representatives of it in the last
generation of lawyers ; Birkenhead, the Lord Chan-
cellor, who was F. E. Smith, is a modern example.
Knox, like them, is as much a man of the world as
he is a lawyer—and, of course, he is a very great
lawyer indeed. He has owned horses all his life,
from picnic-meeting losers to Cup winners; and for
the last 10 years he has practically been the A.J.C.
A good example of his understanding of the man in
the street was afforded during his last big
case—Ryan v. the Argus. He chatted to
the jurors in plain language as though they had all
been reasoning together as friends. He was able to
do it because, though he has been on the Equity
side for 30 years, he has never acquired the aloof
and stereotyped Equity manner and point of view.
Like all his family he is a man of solidly-simple
ways. In Cairo, when the rest of the Red Cross and
Comforts Funds’ Colonels were almost sleeping in
their martial costumes, Adrian Knox was in mufti,
and inconspicuous mufti at that. On the other hand,
unlike many of the other colonels, he worked a solid
eight hours or more per day. He is known to be
popular with the King and persona grata at Court
generally, and as he is also a rich man he will pro-
bably have the opportunity of being the first N. S.
Wales peer.
A good citizen went over the range when
Charles Baxter Cox died jn Perth the other
day. An athlete in his University days he
was still a fine vigorous man when compli-
cations followed upon an operation for ap-
pendicitis. “C. 8.” was a partner in the
legal firm of which late Attorney-General
Robinson is a principal, but he was even
more widely known in racing than in legal
circles, and as chairman of the \V. A. Turf
Club for the past 11 years was a great
influence for good.
Should Admiral Wemyss accept the job,
he will be the first naval Governor of Vic-
toria since the time of Quarter-Deck Hotham
(1554-5).
Considine took his seat in the Federal
House of Reps, on Friday for the first time
since he was in gaol for saying and
~— about George V. Nothing happened. A
kindred feeling is making fellow-members
wondrous kind. Another few days and they
will all be out.
Alfred Deakin had his first lessons in irri-
gation from one of his electors in the
Bacchus Marsh district, Michael O’Connor,
who passed out shortly before the statesman.
O’Connell _ constructed the first gravitation
system of irrigation in Victoria, bringing the
water a distance of two miles to his pro-
perty. The works are still in use.
The Argus says Hughes has “a many-
colored personality.” All the Hughes of the
rainbow*.
Laborite Philip Behrend, dead at Mel-
bourne, came briefly into the limelight in
1914, when he opposed Norman Bayles for
Toorak. The result was as expected, partly
owing to Behrend’s name. It is said he was
related to General Monash.
In common with a few other Melbourne
parsons of blessed memory, Dean Godby had
a reputation for being ready to give the
coat off his back to anybody who seemed
to need it badly. During many years of his
long career the late dean received a fairly
substantial Wage for toiling in the vineyard ;
yet he left only two thousand odd.
“Simon” : Died under tragic circumstances
at Petersham, Sydney, on Eight H-our night,
“Paddy” Perry. Twenty-five years ago he
was as good an all-round shearer as ever led
a pack-horse. “Further out” there were odd
men who could cut him out of a few, but
“nearer in,” amongst the big leathery-necked
jumbucks of the Mudgee district, he was in-
vincible. The end came at 50-odd through
his asking home a mate from the bush and
sharing the room with him for company.
During the night the visitor lit the gas, and,
when turning it off, there being no stop-pin
in the tap, overshot the mark, and while he
got the light out all right got the gas full
on. Next morning at 6 o’clock it was a
corpse his wife tried to waken. The man
from the bush recovered—he was nearer the
partly-open door.
When the war started Private Norman
Brooks w r as still in knickers, but he managed
to get to the other side just in time for
the final strafing of the Hun. Determined
to have some real war, he went with the
small band of Diggers who enlisted to tidy
up the Bolsheviks. During the job he re-
ceived a D.C.M. for “very difficult patrol
scouting,” and the Camberwell boy scouts,
to whom he belonged for years, are making
their most blood-curdling war-whoops.
Charles Barrett, who, after serving in
Egypt with the A.1.F., came back to his job
as a reporter on Melbourne Herald, has
been appointed “literary organiser” in con-
nection with the official history of the A.I.F.
which C. E. W. Bean is preparing. Bar-
rett is a gentle nature-student, who has
produced several books dealing with the
habits of the tomtit and other exotic crea-
tures, and also a yarn for boys, “The Isle
of Palms.”
About the middle of this year Lieut-Col.
Davies, late Brig.-Gen. of the Bth Brigade
A.1.F., was given charge of a Fusilier Bat-
talion in the Russian Expeditionary Force.
The other battalion-commander was a S’Afri-
can. Most of Davies’s men were Scotch and
Australian, which meant hard luck for any-
one who argued with them during business
hours. In June, when the camps in Eng-
land were full of men waiting for their boats,
Davies toured round and called for volun-
teers for his battalion, pay to be at the Eng-
lish, not Australian, rates. He got them —
dozens of them. They walked straight off
the boat-roll seeking more trouble. And they
appear to have got it. Two of them were
Lieuts. Pearce and Gibbs, of the Aus. Ar-
tillery. They went across as privates in
the Lewis-gun section. Now Gibbs is a
corporal with a D.C.M. and Pearce is dead.
He was a sergeant, and the job that sent
him out also got him a recommendation for
a V.C. Gibbs* is about the mildest young
man who ever wore khaki, let alone a D.C.M.
He is the sort of man who would apolo-
gise to a Hun or Bolshevik widow after wip-
ing out her husband and 10 sons. Then
he’d go and wipe out more. When these
volunteers were called for one of the many
officers who went along w T as Lieut.-Col. Mur-
ray, V.C., C.M.G., D.S.O. (and bar), D.C.M.,
etc. Although the most expert machine-
gunner in the A.1.F., he was told he would
have to enlist as a private under English
officers. The latter part settled him and a
lot of others too.
A. H. ASHBOLT.
Tasmania's new Agent-General.
Archbishop Mannix definitely throws in
liis hat, which is a belltopper, for the Labor
party. A recent conclave of all the
archbishops was mainly about elections.
Mannix wanted a pronouncement for Labor,
but could not get it.
Dr. Earle Page, of Grafton, is among the
returned Diggers who want to get into tbe
National Parliament; and he is likely to
give John Thomson, of Cowper (N.S.W.
North Coast), a hot run. Page, a live-wire
of the Clarence, is largely responsible for
the big hydro-electric scheme on which the
North Coast builds visions of a district as
prosperous and populous as the County of
Cumberland.
Maoriland’s Rhodes scholar for 1919, Nor-
man Macdonald Richmond, is the native-
born son of Professor M. W. Richmond,
formerly of the Law School at Wellington.
He won his way by scholarships from the
primary school to the University, graduating
B.A. at 19. He is a good swimmer, cricketer,
boxer and footballer, as a soldier served
with the M.L. Artillery, and is now 22.
The current Rhodes Scholarship for S.
Aus. goes to a son of Method si-parson
Howard, who would be Archbishop of
Adelaide if Methodists had such things. The
son, Stanford, is only 21, and, after varied
successes at Prince Alfred College enlisted
two years ago, and at latest was official
interpreter to Allied forces occupying
Cologne.
With Alex. Blythe, General Chauvel’s
dad took up Mount Abundance station, out
Roma (Q.) way, in the forties of last cen-
tury. The blacks were so bad that the
partners gave the game best, and cleared
out, presenting the surviving cattle to Paddy
Mclnnon, one of their bullock-drivers. Paddy
chummed in with the blacks and lived a
patriarchal life, sharing his beef with the
tribe. Now and then he would drove a
small mob to Dalby or Toowoomba and
have a hallelujah meeting on the proceeds.
A long tail of blacks always came with him,
as well as a bullock dray filled with his
wives and children. On the return trip the
dray was loaded with pflour, ’hacea and
other comforts. Paddy died of the comforts
after one trip.
Prince Yoiissoupoff, who went last week
Four Arts Ball in London clad in
£37,000 worth of diamonds, and subsequently
had them stolen from his flat, is like a
character out of a William Le Quex novel.
He is an immensely wealthy Russan. but in
speech and appearance resembles an English-
man. He was educated at Eton and Ox-
ford, and has many English relations on his
mother’s side. His good looks are remark-
able, and so are his habits. Deciding that
Rasputin was an evil influence over the
Czarina, he made plans to have him mur-
dered. At a party at the Prince’s house in
Petrograd the insanitary monk was poisoned,
shot and stabbed. His bodv was then
heaved into the Neva. The Court looked
with disfavor on this exploit, and the Prince
got out. His mission in life is to over-
throw Bolshevism and get back his estates,
but he has enough to keep the wolf from the
dobr whatever happens politically.
“REPATTED.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’ve blown ’ome agen from th’ ends of -the earth,
I’ve seen th’ scrap through oh th’ other side,
An’ I’m wonderin’ ’ard if th’ gamble’s worth
Th’ stakes we've paid, an’ I can’t decide!
But I jerry to this, that my moniker's “Mud”
An’ a Digger repatted is on’y a dud!
They patted me back w’en I went away,
They’re turnin’ me theirs now I’ve returned;
An’ th’ patriots then who’d th’ most to say
Now seems to be them ’oo’s th’ least concerned;
They was eloquent then about playin’ th’ game,
Now they can't even arsk you to give it a name,
W’en I lobbed, there cert’inly was some flags,
Old flags that ’ad waved a lot before,
F’r they all was faded an’ worn to rags—
An’ so was th’ smile that me tabby wore,
As she ses to me: “Chiller, I ’ates a row,
An’ yer mustn’t be narked, but I’m married now!”
There’s a pommy tart on th’ other side,
Who I use to think—well, voo comprec!
But I chatted ’er straight that me ’ands was tied
By a Aussie skirt, who ’ad promised ine.
Now me Sheila’s a missus, “expectin’ ” at that—
’Struth! A bloke’s up th’ pole w’en e’s dead on
’is pat!
W’en I called at th’ joint w’ere I used to graft
They was terrible glad to welcome me;
They collared me dook, an’ cackled, an’ larfed,
An’ slings me a cup o’ mornin’ tea!
An’ th’ ’ead-serang ’e gets properly wet
’Cos there wasn’t a po3sy f’r me, jus’ yet!
An’ ,it gets on me nerves w’en th’ shrewdies stare,
An’ is glad to see I ain’t copped no harm,
An’ me with th’ wound-stripes shinin’ there
Like a golden grid on me false-alarm !
W’eh they’ve ’oped that I’ve ’ad a good ’oliday, then
They asks w’en I’m thinkin’ o’ workin’ agen!
W’en I rides in th’ smoker I got to stand
W’ile th’ ’ome-sweet-’omers gigs at me,
An’ pot-bellied toft's of. th’ patriot brand
Gets kiddin’ ’ow ’appy I ought to be;
’Ow proftd that I fought f’r th’ flag an’ th’ King—
An’ me outer work, with a paralysed wing 1
An’ it seems to me now that the bloomin’ ’eads
Don’t jerry to ’arf wot our blokes ’as done.
An’ it aih’t that we’re squealin' f’r eider-down beds,
Nor pigeons on toast; but th’ scrap is won—
We've finished th’ job that we promised to do, .
Now it’s up to th’ skitrrs to see theirs through!
N.s.^'.
NORMAN CAMPBELL.


*r
Jt*
<-r
&>f~
Ssw
.■fsfcv
-sr*.
$S
»i
Wc
X
tv
HSS
I
ti
3£>-.«
\
:>
S*
sr*
§B3
tm
m
■m
JKSit
m
m
%
s&a
SgW*
fsk
2?
■
I
w
T
w
M
±l,
m
itfr&f
m
■t’j
m
■
>y
I? a
rre
7
i
■
&S@§i
W'
m
Wi
Wm
Itiiip
as
'4B
m
yp
'm<n
m
A
S
m.
m
«ag
feCf
-‘4
I
m
m
Pioneer Distributors of Australian Goods
A PIONEER, says the dictionary, is “One who goes before to prepare the way.’’
Go wing Bros., with the courage of their convictions and an unflinching devotion
to an ideal, were amongst the first champions of the merits of Australian
Goods.
For Fifty Years every good product of good Australian manufacture has found
a place among our stocks, and a warm recommendation on our part. The result
has been the continuous support of customers who have found in our goods, and
the service behind them, a lasting satisfaction.
“AUSTRAL” SAC SUITS, Ready-to-wear,
Made of Vicar’s All-Wool Australian Tweeds,
84|-, 105/-, 1151-, 126/-, 135|-
For their merits alone, and apart from sentimental reasons, these goods deserve your preference.
City customers are invited to call on us and inspect the range Out-of-town Customers will find it to their interests to
of qualities and designs. Every courtesy will he extended. write for a post-free copy of our New General Catalogue.
A Special Concession of 5 per cent. (1/- in the £) is allowed Returned
———Soldiers in Uniform on all Cash Purchases of £5 or over.
Orders Delivered Free in City, Suburbs and Country
GOWING BROS.
Everything for Men s and Boys Wear.
484-490 GEORGE STREET, 3 to-17 ROYAL ARCADE,
Branch Store at 304 GEORGE STREET (near Hunter Street), SYDNEY.


Mr. William Holman, recognised as one of the finest teachers of dramatic art
in Australia, writes his conscientious opinion of Clements Tonic—that it is
invaluable for the general health and strength.
MR. HOLMAN' has been associated with many of the world’s greatest tragedians, and his
influence in all things pertaining to the success of true art and drama is publicly
recognised. He writes the letter published below. His successes extend beyond a
period when he was stage-manager for Wilson Barrett and other world-famed celebrities and
artists.
Conservatorium of Music,
Macquarie Street, Sydney,
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD. October, 1018.
Some time since—after a prolonged cold and sore throat, I experi-
enced great nervous depression, loss of appetite, and want of energy.
I tried many medicines to relieve this condition, but without much
success.
Latterly I tried Clements Tonic, and am feeling now greatly bene-
fited—appetite returning, voice restored to a great extent, and a general
feeling < f good health and spirits.
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle, N.S.W.
I can confidently recommend Clements Tonic.
You may use my testimonial throughout the press of Australasia.
Yours faithfully,
(Signed) WILLIAM HOLMAN, Sen.
Professional People in any calling, especially Scholars, Students studying for examinations,
where good health is essential, should always keep this splendid medicine on hand for the
relief of weakness due to Over-study, Want of Sleep, Poor Appetite, Unstrung Nerves,
Anaemia or Poor Blood, Headache, Neuralgic Affections, Indigestion or Impaired Digestive Pro-
cesses. It shottld always be kept in the house.
All Chemists and Stores sell it in Australia and New Zealand.
It does good because it is good. Get it to-day and health at the same time.
You will not regret it.
All the best Society “Catering Functions” are regularly carried out by the “PAVILION,”
Sydney’s Restaurant de luxe, Circular Quay,
Society
PENEOLD'S
WINES
“Copabella” : There is a promise of “some-
thing doing” if the Soldiers’ and Sailors’
Fathers, now quietly forming themselves into
provincial branches in Vic., carry on as they
are beginning. At the foundation meeting
in my village there was a distinct atmos-
phere of business. The company was
HIS TRAVELLING TICKET.
THE PIRATE: “Well, now, if that ain’t old
Bill you've got there in that locket!
Wouldn’t I just like to be with ’im
again!”
THE PRIZE: “You will be soon if you don’t
dear. He’s in the hospital.”
socially mixed —from the laborer to the big
employer; but there was a quiet determina-
tion about the hundred or so greyheads; a
brisk seriousness; no hi’falutin about party
or polities, Urn Empire or “our noble men”;
just a board-of-directors air which said
plainly. “A fair deal and a straight go for
our lads who fought—in deeds, not pro-
mises !” What an inspiration the fathers
themselves have behind their organising was
reflected in the executive appointed for this
branch. Elected by ballot without prelim-
inary engineering, the 11 men chosen re-
presented in direct fathership 27 soldiers,
one of them a girl. More than that, they
represented seven lads lying in graves in
Gallipoli and France. The president had
sent every child —three sons (one of whom
died), a daughter a nurse, and the husbands
of his other two daughters! Ten thousand
men of this type have already linked up
in the association.
“ J. 8.”: This is the racing season all
right! On Saturday morning I went into a
pompadour saloon to be shaved. Around the
chair into which I dropped was a congrega-
tion of three barbers discussing the prospects
of the afternoon at Randwick. After waiting
10 minutes. I apologised for being present,
and one of the lads got to work on me.
“That’s a sure thing,” he said across his
shoulder as he plunked a handful of suds
in my eye; “they gotter good boy up.” (Suds
in the earhole this time.) Then he swung
the razor. The proceedings went something
like this: “Fifteen to one if y’ get in early”
(gash). “Phast Boy? Have some sense.”
( Bleeding from seventh cut checked with a
hunk of brimstone.) “The couldn’t win a
raffle if he was the only one in it.” (More
brimstone.) When the enthusiast mounted
my chest to shave under my chin I unsaddled.
"No, lad,” I remonstrated; “a throat’s a
throat, and this is the only one I’ve got.
Leave it to me, for I want to go to the
races.” Said he affably: “Righto—hold on,
there’s some blood on yer collar.” He
sponged the collar, brushed my face with a
broom and gave me a chit for Is. “If yer
going out,” he confided, “put a quid on any
--—— thing but Phast Boy.”
The Fitzroy (Vic.) vendettists have had
some more revolver practice, and this time
a lady friend of the shootee was the worst
sufferer. She was in a bedroom and partly
dressed, but was so anxious to escape notice
that she fled up the chimney, overlooking
the fact that the aperture was barely large
enough for her head ; in fact, having got her
head up she couldn’t get it back. It took
three self-possessed Johns fully 10 minutes
to scrape away enough of the hapny home
to ease the damsel’s head down gradually,
and when they got her down she didn’t seem
grateful. But perhaps the most affable
angel in Heaven wouldn’t be either if she
saw her best feathers covered with soot.
* * * •
“Devilfish”: The stretch of
nearly 200 miles of coast on
the south and south-west of
Tasmania, from the farthest-
out timber camp at Catamaran
Creek to Hell’s Gates, at the
entrance to Macquarie Harbor,
is, I think, the wildest and most
deserted shore of its length in
Australia. There isn’t a single
permanent inhabitant, and it
isn’t even occasionally visited,
as many other desolate parts of
the Australian coast are, by
Black Brother, because Black
Brother has long since ceased,
to exist in Tassy. The only
habitations are at the light-
house on the Maatsuykers, and
they are a couple of miles off
the coast—the Commonwealth’s
most southern light. Some-
times, too, there are a few tin-
miners at Cox’s Bight, the
world’s most southern tinfield,
and a few prospectors' poke
about Port Davey at times,
lluon pinecutters used to work
up the creeks coming into Port
Davey, but the timber belts are
narrow and long since cut out.
There is said to be timber up
the New River and other
streams on the south, and also
on one or two of the rivers com-
ing down on the west, north of
Port Davey, but the coast is
one of the roughest in the
world, and I hope I shall never
have the job of shifting a cargo
of spars from there.
“Ex-I’unter” recalls old friends: —
“Scotland,” so ran a Sydney law report last week
—“Scotland said that he could not say whether he
then had a banking account. He used to go racing a
lot, and kept large sums in his pocket. (Laughter.)
He probably had £6OO about him at that time.”
So laughter, often loud and contemptuous, is the
meed of the witness who makes such a statement
these cynic days. Yet any racing-man or gambler
will acknowledge that the class to which he belongs
has an extraordinary predilection for carrying about
vast sums of ready cash. Not only when there is
a wager in prospect, but at all times. The reason
why the sharper does it may be partly to impress his
victims. But the thing goes deeper. Reputable
citizens whose cheques for hundreds, scrawled on
scrap-paper, would be considered as good as gold,
pull out rolls of notes and (before the war) hand-
fuls of sovereigns to settle card debts. Such men
• simply like the feel of money about them. As regards
the cheque-giving habit, it is largely a matter of
local custom. In the French provinces many well-to-do
people will neither give nor take cheques. An
Italian or a Spaniard with a cheque-book is almost
as rare as a grey horse or a one-eyed man. A weak
point about the testimony of gentlemen like Scotland
—and one of the circumstances, no doubt, which led
the Court to And against him —is that Australia,
like America, is a cheque-giving country. Added to
this may be mentioned an idiosyncrasy which seems
to be indigenous—lack of memory in respect of
IN SPORTING TERMS.
“ That’s Mrs. Battler's third hus-
band, isn’t it?”
“Yes; she’s two down and one to go.”
large financial transactions. The thrifty Frenchman
knows to a sou the amount of money he had on him
or about the house at a given time; and I never
personally met a gambler who didn't cherish for
years the most wearisome details of his big wins
and losses.
“75”: According to Melbourne cafe pro-
prietors, the misappropriation by patrons
of silverware, napery and other odds and
ends has never been so rife as at present.
Women are the worst offenders, the fashion-
able handbags offering special facilities for
the removal of loot. Having been given a
hint by a waiter, the czar of a fashionable
cafe the other evening asked two ladies of
a gay supper party to come into the office,
and each was found to have helped herself
liberally to coffee spoons. Of course, it was
“a joke.” A few weeks earlier a morning
tea-drinker was caught while endeavoring to
sail out with a silver-plated sugar-bowl in
her muff. But the most serious case that
has come under notice was that of a well-
dressed womau who was emptying the con-
tents of a sugar-basin into her handbag!
The souveniring of a few knives and forks
is only petty larceny, but not the theft of
white sugar. Another high-class restaurant
a little more than a year ago bought a quan-
tity of decorative oyster forks. Not one now
remains. A raid on seaside bungalows would
probably result in the recovery of a heap of
the vanished silverware. But wherever the
stuff goes, several victims have agreed that
in future fair looters caught in the act shall
be asked to explain the point of the joke to
a police magistrate.
* * * *
A vague, mysterious entity called Public
Morality lately caught a Melbourne citizen
named Rayner and outed him. Rayner mar-
ried in 1900 and dwelt with his wife till
1905, when she met one Hazeldean, and,
presently, dwelt with him. The deserted
husband remained placid through the next
14 years, notwithstanding that Mrs. Rayner,
temporarily Hazeldean, called to see him
and introduced him to a new baby. In fact,
she introduced him to five babies altogether;
and when the Divorce judge heard this he
said Public Morality had been outraged and
put to shame, and, however much Rayner
and Mrs. Rayner would be the better of a
decree nisi, he wouldn’t give one, because
of Rayner’s unconscionable delay in asking
for it. Apparently, P. Morality approves
of Mrs. Rayner living immorally with Hazel-
dean when she might be tidily married to
him ; or possibly the root idea is that five
illegitimate children are not enough. Which-
ever way it is looked at, P. Morality seems a
curious animal.
•* * * •
Probably no one save the curiously com-
posite Italian would have thought of sending
his most popular poet filibustering in Fiume.
The’ Italian badly wants Fiume, though it
is more Serb than Italian, and it wasn’t in
the bargain he drove when he entered the
war, and it is the only feasible port left to
Serbia. He simply calls it “unredeemed
Italy,” which description also applies, though
more remotely, to London and Constan-
tinople. D’Annunzio entered the place with
his volunteers gathered together when the
Government wasn’t looking. He took the
Italian garrison when it wasn’t looking
either, and it is either held prisoner by the
motley invaders or else it has joined them,
Ir is supposed to be a prisoner, and appeals
to all and sundry not to bombard the poet’s
positions and drop shells on the helpless cap-
tives by mistake. It is pointed out to
Europe that, in addition, violent measures
might destroy the poet himself, and thus
rob the world of its brightest ornament. The
poet himself admits that he would be ail
irreparable loss, and that; anybody who
shoots in his direction risks the execrations
of posterity. The Italian Government, with
one eye closed and the other on the main
chance, explains that it is yearning to do the
honest thing by its Serbian ally, but that
the army is so maddened by the danger that
the national bard is in, and which he won’t
come out of, that the matter is beyond it.
It is all beautifully Italian. When certain
United States interests required Nicaragua
they never thought of sending Emerson or
Longfellow or even Josh Billings in com-
mand and then demanding for him immunity
and non-resistance on the ground that any
injury to him would be worse than blowing
up the Vendome column. The British didn’t
even think of sending Tennyson to take
Sebastopol. There is always something new
to be learned in war and diplomacy.
• * * *
“Demos”: To be found in possession of
liquor while in a Blighty hospital was a
crime which would land the offending Digger
before a court-martial. “Ike the Battler.”
under treatment fov shell-shock, had suc-
ceeded in smuggling a bottle of rum into the
ward, and, after having a few tots, fell
asleep, leaving the bottle on top of the
locker beside his bed. The following morn-
ing the bottle was discovered by an ambitious
orderly and promptly handed over to the
sister in charge, who reported the find. Ike-
decided to conduct his own defence, and fight
the case. He cross-examined the witnesses
for the prosecution so skilfully that he soon
had them in a dozen knots; and his stutter-
ing address to the Court occupied an hour.
The heads found that the charge against
the accused had not been sustained, and dis-
SEX DIFFERENCE.
“Men are so ridiculous. Speak of the races
to a man and he’ll ask you what are you
going to back.”
“Yes. dear, it is absurd. Why should any-
body leant to ask anything except what
are you going to wear?”
missed the ease. A little while later the
C.O. met Ike in the grounds and con-
gratulated him on the way he had conducted
his case. “If there is anything I can do for
you,” said he, “don't forget to ask for it.”
“Very g-g-good, sir,” stammered Ike. “Would
you m-m-mind giving me back my b-b-bottlo
of r-r-rum?”
(Continued on page IS.)
THE PLEA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A plea is rising from the earth,
From bird and beast together,
From tree and flower, and leaf and blade:
"Oh, hearken, hearken, man and maid.
All ye that have the power to pray,'
Pray not for sunny weather!”
The sun is drinking up the dews.
The Drought, unsparing, slaughters
The root, the stem, the bud, the fruit,
And night and day, though seeming mute,
They cry to man: “Pray God to send
Cool rain and saving waters.”
The thrush’s throat is cracked by thirst,
The grasses wilt and wither,
And ever, evermore they call:
“If there be any clouds at all
Deep-burthened with life-giving rains,
Pray God to speed them hither!”
A plea is rising from the earth,
From blade and leaf and feather,
From drooping flocks and moaning herds:
"Oh ye, to w'hom God gave the words
Wherewith His mercies to implore,
Pray now for rainy weather!”
N’.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


®K
r\
■•X
N.
il
m
m
m
W:
• ••:
!v.;.
m
m
' B
©
?7.vyy. v ! , . g y
mm
f.w.vft
m
»
i
3W
i
7hp
3Aii\ie
BEFORE the GRADUOLA, the in-
genious patented tone controlling de-
vice in the AEOLIAN VOGALION
was invented, it was hitherto unknown
how to mechanically imitate the voice
perfectly.
The GRADUOLA achieves the seem-
ingly impossible. Like a singer’s throat,
it perfectly controls tone
*3
Gfl
PS
if
Similar to the vocal chords the GRADUOLA
is elastic in nature and of great flexibility. Like
the throat it expands and contracts and can di-
minish or increase a tone slowly or rapidly and
by imperceptible degrees. The
AEOLIAN
VOCALION
is the only phonograph that can accomplish this.
Even if the VOCALION did not possess
other outstanding features, this one overwhelming
attribute alone, namely, the GRADUOLA, would
be sufficient to make your choice a VOCALION.
Comp a
POST THIS COUPON JVOIT.
Please send me the AEOLIAN VOCALION
Catalog.
......Name.
Address.
384 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.


paton
10688
The DrinK of the
Connoisseur —is
BRIMDS
WHISKY
MILD
MELLOW
To meet the
demand
TOOHEYS
Have brewed a
Special Stout
Equal to Imported.
TRY IT.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
“Blossom” : The Digger hated the saluting
business when on leave. My cobber was in
the Strand when he saw a staff “head”
coming towards him. At once he became ter-
ribly interested in the nearest window. After
gazing on feminine what-nots for a minute
or two, and thinking that the officer had
surely passed, he made ready to move on
again—just in time to catch the eye of the
red-tab. So he turned again to the window.
The “head” tapped the Digger on the shoul-
der. “Look here,” he said, “what do you
usually do when you meet an officer?” “To
tell you the gorstruth,” replied dear old
Dig., “I usually look in a shop window.”
THE PESSIMIST.
SHE: “I see there’s some talk of the
authorities putting a tax on ‘undies'.”
HE : “They’ll starve.”
“Camelero”: This is ho,w the row started.
A Tommy R.T.O. at Karitara tried to over-
crowd Diggers returning from leave at Port
Said in a small, open truck. Billjim ob-
jected, and the R.T.O. was hit with a bit of
brick. The Cameliers were blamed for the
disturbance, and a week later, when we were
bivouacked at Sheik Nuran, we received
orders to march to Sliellal, three miles away,
as General Chauvel wished to address us.
It was a typical desert day, with the sun hot
enough to melt our identification discs. Be-
sides, we had already ridden six miles to
water our camels in the Wady Ghuzze. When
we reached our destination we waited for
two hours before the dashing cavalry leader
arrived, and during this time several of our
chaps who were suffering from - valaria had
to be taken away to the field hospital. The
General arrived in a car and severely repri-
manded us at terrific length, after which we
BACK TO EVE.
“Is that what you're going to wear at the dance next week?"
“It is not. So far I have decided upon nothing.”
marched back to our lines, and on the way
several more Cameliers dropped out. Chauvel
was a great orator. Whenever I think of
that Lighthorsemen’s hell, the Jordan Valley,
there come to me memories of Talat-el-
Dumm and a bag of ice that used to arrive
from Jerusalem and go to the General's tent
at headquarters. Down in the valley below,
Chaytor, Cox, Meredith, Granville and other
dinkum leaders sweltered and drank the
heated w'ater from the Jordan. They could
have done with some ice.
* * * *
“Spurs”: I support “1921” (B. 9/10/’l9)
in his remarks re General Chauvel’s handling
of the Light Horse in Egypt and Palestine.
One had only to be present at a few of his
many lectures to realise the great difference
in type between the Light Horsemen and
their commander. He never seemed to under-
stand us. In these lectures he betrayed
nervousness and apprehension about our
conduct, adjured us to take the Yeomanry as
our example, and impressed on us the import-
ance of punctilious saluting and of polishing
our stirrup-irons and bits. “It is I, not you,
who have to bear the brunt of your mis-
deeds,” he complained to us one day. He
omitted to mention anything about the
honors he was bearing because of our good
deeds. “1921” mentions an inspection by
Chauvel of the Ist Brigade at Talat-el-
Dumm in a temperature of 120 degrees in the
shade, when the men were worn out after
heavy fighting in the Jordan Valley. The
2nd Brigade had a similar experience at the
same place. We had to march anything up
to a mile over hilly country to the parade
ground and were three hours in the broiling
sun from the time we started until we were
dismissed. We were all very weak, and
several of the men collapsed on the
parade through exhaustion, while Chauvel
went round inspecting every man, finishing
up with a long address in his usual way.
It was a senseless and unfeeling business.
The L.II. had a very rough spin in Palestine.
They were worked almost continuously and
more than any other troops there. Also they
had less leave- —such as it was —and I doubt
if any troops on any front had as rotten a
time as regards conditions. We felt over
there, and I think we feel more now, that
matters could have been much improved
if General Chauvel had stuck up for us in a
stronger way than he did.
* * * *
Striking landmarks at New Plymouth
(M.L.) are the sugarloaf rocks which stand,
one on the shore and two in the sea, near
the breakwater. Now one of the pinnacles
is to be levelled, to make a rubble wall to
assist in diverting the sand from the deep-
water berths. The proposed demolition re-
calls the fact that the late dynamic poli-
tician Hee Hem Smith once led a party of
patriots who proposed to attack Paritutu,
the largest sugarloaf, 560 ft. high, and heave
it into the tide by one gigantic explosion.
The idea was that the capsized hill would
then form a huge natural breakwater. They*
dug a deep hole in the rock and tilled it
with dynamite. It was an ambitious plan
and they were rather annoyed at a sceptic
who was prepared to sit on top of Paritutu
while they fired the charge. In fact, it took
a large policeman to keep the mocker from
his purpose. When the charge was fired,
the earth wobbled a little and the starlings
and minahs that nested in the cliffs took wing
for Australia; but Paritutu did not budge.
Moturoa, the islet whose doom is now sealed,
will be dealt with by high explosive; and
there will be no mocker on the bar when it
puts out to sea.
* * * *
“R.S.V.P.”: The Argus has recorded the
case of an unnamed draper who, finding he
couldn’t get rid of a line of cheap lace at
Is. Gd., put the goods up to Gs. and sold
them readily. In sorrowing over the cir-
cumstance, gran’ma
blamed the senseless
extravagance of the
women who bought the
fraudulently - priced
stock, deploring the
alleged tendency of
Australian shoppers to
despise low-priced
goods without regard
to value. But what of
the draper? Any good
housewife knows that
a six-shilling lace
which is worth the
money will contain
greater value than four
times the amount of
oighteenpenny stuff.
Few women are, how-
ever, all-round judges
of quality and value.
That is the shopman’s
job, and if lie deliber-
ately takes advantage
of the fact that his cus-
tomers, mostly women
of small means, are
forced to depend on
his judgment in laying
out their money to the best advantage, he
deserves all that ought to be coming to him
—and isn’t.
* * * *
A tale of broken hearts:—
An unrecorded tragedy of the exodus of Hun
internees the other day was the tearing away of
Patrick Malone. Patrick used to be well known
and well liked by barmaids and others, mostly
about Elizabeth-street, Sydney; in fact, he seemed
to be drifting towards matrimony with a very
charming pub widow who was doing a good bottle
trade. He was a pleasant, well-dressed man, ap-
parently with money to spend, profession not very
certain, and with a Kerry accent that couldn’t be
cut with an axe—the axe rebounded every time.
He wasn’t distinctively Irish in appearance, but a
deaf-adder would have recognised that he was born
in Kerry. P. Malone disappeared many months ago
and was much regretted. The mystery was cleared
up a few days hack when the handsome pub-widow
received his letter of eternal farewell and apology
and explanation. He was going home to Hamburg
under compulsion. Evidently his business here had
been of a sort that called for concealment, and he
had reason to know that war was coming long be-
fore it came. Anyhow, he acquired his accent
through hard study with a dramatic teacher who
took him for a stage-struck Hun with a craving
for private theatricals. As the teacher thought the
dialect was for stage use only, he rather overdid
the thing and made Hans von Schmidt more Kerry
than Kerry itself. Still, it was a mighty good
affair, and when the Aar came and Hans had changed
his clothes and his hair and the name on his shirts,
and gone to new quarters dressed in his brogue to
follow his mysterious business, he passed muster
for quite a while. His downfall came about through
his painting the verbal lily a little more than usual
one evening when he was feeling good and when
a very swift ’tec who had a genuine but concealed
Kerry accent of his own was taking stock. Does
any dramatic teacher remember a polite Mittel-
European who had a craving to learn the parts of
Shaun the Post and the Sbaughraun about nine years
ago?
» * * *
“A.”: A Bulletin mention that
“glimpses are caught occasionally of old Yic.
Agent-General Murray Smith” recalls to my
memory a dinner given him at the Free-
masons’ Tavern, London, when he was leav-
ing for Australia in early ISNG. Lord
Granville, then Secretary of State for the
Colonies, presided. This ornate after-dinner
speaker lauded the guest and wound up by
saying: “When Mr. Murray Smith gets back
to Sydney he will be received,” etc., etc.
Geography was little known in the Colonial
Office in those days. An Under-Secretary
said to me thoughtfully of Queensland, “Ah,
let’s see —that’s a Crown Colony on the
African West Coast, isn’t it?”
* * * *
“Heldar”: He was an old “regular” trans-
planted to the A.I.F. as sergeant-major. The
picket was mounting, orderly-officer looming
in the near distance, when the orderly-
sergeant discovered he was one man short.
He hurried to the s.-m.-for instructions. “Put
’All lion,” said the s.-m.; “’e ’asn’t been lion
yet.” The wood we were camped in re-
sounded with peremptory calls for “Gunner
Hall!” but there was no answer, so the
oracle was again sought. “Do you know
where Gunner Hall camps, sergeant-major?
Can’t find him about.” “Aw—er —yes, just
near ’ere; next ’uffipy to mine. ’E plays
cards a lot.. I ’ear ’em say ‘Good-night,
’All,’ hevery night when they finish.”
* * * *
“Took Emma Gee”: For the information
of “Digger” (B. 21/S/T9) and others who
think that the sergeant-majors of the old
C.M.F. were a failure in the war may I
mention than 22(5 of these permanent n.c.o.’s
left Australia, 96 per cent, obtained com-
missions, 5 p.c. were killed in action, 72 p.c.
THE BRIDE : “I am trying to induce
George ”-
HER MOTHER: “Trying to induce him? My
dear, you must not begin THAT way."
won decorations for gallantry, and only 2
p.c. returned to Australia as s.-m.’s? These
unsuccessful ones were not, as a rule, Aus-
tralians, but ex-members of the Imperial
Forces who were allowed to enter the Per-
manent Forces as s.-m.’s without an ex-
amination. As “Rio” states, the disposal of
these proved leaders is a problem ; for it is
very clear that the heads are keen on retain-
ing men who stayed at home and gained pro-
motion there.
ISLES OF MEMORY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“He might have islands of memory in a sea of
forgetfulness.” —Evidence by a physician in a case in
which witnesses couldn’t remember.
The ocean of forgetfulness
Is wondrous blue and deep ;
Beneath its billows, crested white,
Most comfortably out of sight,
Forgotten sorrows sleep ;
Good resolutions, rashly made,
Upon its bed in scores are laid.
About the wrecks of sunken hopes
Small fish hold carnival;
The treasure trove of lusty youth,
Lost loie and superseded truth,
Are covered by its pall;
And, safe alike from lines and nets,
Repose a shoal of petty debts.
But scattered o'er its wide expanse
Are islands here and there;
One bears the name of Lalage,
Another is Phrynette—ah ! she
Was most divinely fair!
Perhaps I am an island, too,
Set in her boundless sea of blue.
It’s really most desirable
To own an isle or so,
Where trespassers cannot intrude,
To which one may, when in the mood,
For recreation go.
An island is a pleasant place
On which to linger for a space.
The scents and sounds of yesteryear
Are borne upon the breeze,
A whiff of frangipanni comes,
While in the distance someone strums
Out-moded melodies,
And there are cosy nooks “To Let”
Upon the island named Phrynette.
The moon lays gentle fingers on
The shores of Lalage;
Where freakish arabesques are cast,
A charming ghost from out the past
Awaits me ’neath a tree,
And on the air there seems to float
The laughter from a dark girl’s throat.
Since travel is rich mental food —
It helps one to unlearn
Youth’s falsehoods —oft across the sea
To these dear Isles of Memory
I journey, and return,
Appreciating none the less
The ocean of forgetfulness!
VICTORIA.
GLEN H.


STORAGE
BATTERY
Willard Threaded Rubber Insulation
fg
df
gd
Get the booklets “The Wick of the
Willard” and “A Mark with a Meaning
for You” from the nearest Willard
Service Station.
The story of a remarkable storage battery
invention and what it is doing for Motorists.
In the fall of 1917 readers of national magazines read
about a new Willard, a Still Better Willard, a Willard with
an entirely new idea in battery construction Threaded
Rubber Insulation.
The Still Better Willard was not an experiment—for
two years before the announcement a car builder put it on
35,000 cars. Many of those first Willard Batteries with
Threaded Rubber Insulation are still in use after four yearn.
What is the Secret of Threaded Rubber Success?
Insulation had always been the big problem with any
storage battery. Ordinary materials wore out before the
battery plates did. Re-insulation was bound to come sooner
or later, and when insulation began to break down the plates
were injured.
But Willard, for the first time found a practical way to
use rubber, the one ideal insulating material, by piercing
each rubber insulator with 196,000 tiny threads to permit
passage of the electrolyte.
You ought to be posted on batteries and battery
insulation, so that when you need a new battery you 11 be
sure of the best your money can buy.
AG E
ERY
M "~"' wmr ***HtHQ POjsr
T*^**’™*^”**
sIS?-sISSSIS?^'
” d !ls“ bb - Mi*.
' 1 7JL' 4 S r * * rs^
J^^>sSJs.Xa.
; SasaBssES-¥?s:-si;2
&&.;.■■ . ***** w*,* ******
&* ****#s
. !M&4 A. ;«„ '
w "'*‘ , » »••?-»>,., '■
«s*» s«} j,
SHI te •» 2SS »“?
«J3t ■ Zmv?< f 9 *•*<**,#,
■ t ;
toe
STORAGE
battery
«
tnshtetian
fMarti Thread
mitiam n


cSGEWO%
“ extra high grade 1 *
SMOKING TOBACCO
Sliced Plug or Ready-Rubbed
is the Original Tobacco of
this style.
Does not bite the tongue.
In tins from all Tobacconists.
2]
Hotel de Luxe.
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL. Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS, surrounded by NATURAL
BUSH.
25 NEW BEDROOMS built over the water—
every room looking out to the Heads.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty. Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from Mos-
man. Amphitheatre Swimming
Baths. Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Tariff from 12/6 per day or
£3/10/- per week.
Tel. Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
A Si
»s
6
WIHHSKSf
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES- LINSEED OIL
UP TO DATE.
GANGER: “ Wot's up with yer face, George?”
GEORGE: “Got some tar on it.”
GANGER: “Why don’t you wash it off?”
GEORGR: “What! IN ME OWN TIME!”
‘Sight Tester” : Having had to improve the
eyesight of a kangaroo shooter the other day
to enable him to bag ’roos at 800 yards, it puzzled
me why this profitable occupation was not snapped
up by Diggers. This man and his brother were able
to keep a motor-car, ar.d got from 15s. to £1 for
each skin, a.nd had a profitable side-line in poison-
ing foxes, for whose coats they got about 15s. Each
party works so many stations—in my man’s case
four—in the country around Bourke, where they
often come upon a mob of kangaroos feeding, and
this shooter has got as many as four skins from a
mob. He has often made £2O a week. Why shouldn’t
soldiers who have qualified as snipers take a hand ?
•MeA or tli ’ : All the inhabited islands of
Torres Strait have cemeteries white-man fashion
to-day. The mounds are well heaped up, and usually
bordered with bottles buried so that the bottoms are
level with the ground. At Saibai the departed are
planted m a strip of sand that separates the sea
from the swamps behind the beach. \s the strip
is very narrow the graves are in one long row
A common practice is to plant a cocoauut-palm at
each corner of the mound. Most of the graves are
kept clear of weeds and rubbish, and some are
fenced. Headstones are imported from the South
many already inscribed; but sometimes the sorrow-
ing relatives try their hands at recording the vir-
tues of the deceased. At Badu one such stone reads:
LILLY,
VERY KIND WIPE OF
JIMMY.
Incidentally, natives at a certain stage of the
civi ising process are fond of erecting public writings
for the edification of their fellows. These are on ill
sorts of subjects. In the centre of the village of
Maubiag is a board inscribed:
ANYTHING LOST
PUT IT HERE.
* *
“Gecko : Here is a simple way to pre-
vent a dog from biting sheep. Pull off your spur,
twist a piece of wire around the button at the end
of the prong, take it across to the buckle on the
opposite side, and make fast. The wire acts as
a bit in the dog’s mouth, and the fork prevents
lnm from closing liis teeth on sheep, but allows
tP lap at the dam - The spur proper supplies
all that is necessary to goad on the stock. P.S.
l'asten the straps of the spur to the dog’s collar.
“Ino”: “W. Casey” (B. 25/9/19)*wants
to know a way of tanning a sheep-skin mat. Well
here is a substitute for tanning. Do all the washing’
trimming etc., first. Spread out, flesh side up, and
cover with a thin layer of bicarbonate of soda
Sv Rub uT 6 ft 80 tiU the s kin is quite
il/hn, i b w and knock all loose soda off; and,
aßhough not tanned, the skin will be just as good.
I have done many skins that way, and they have
always remained soft and white.
“Camelero” : Gentlemen, while we *are on
the subject of buekjump riders, allow me to intro-
duce Baldwin, bareback rider of W.Q. I never saw
him in a saddle, but I don’t think he wls ever
thrown off the bare back of a horse in Bananaland
Mnshi named was
being concerned in the murder ° o f a
w lite man. He was taken to Thurs-
day Island and shipped by steamer to
Rockhampton for trial. The evidence
being hazy Kaio’s guilt was not as
cleai as it might have been, and he
was released and told to get away
ome at once. It was probably con-
sidered that if ) le were guilty the ends
ot justice would meet, for the 800
miles between Rockhampton and Cape
lork contained many bush tribes ex-
ceedingly hostile to wandering, un-
armed blackfellows belonging to far-
nortliern coastal tribes. If he were
innocent—well, one nigger more or
less didn’t matter much. Kaio was
well aware of the dangerous nature
of the journey, but he didn’t hesitate.
As soon as the gaol gate shut behind
hnn he set his face northward and
disappeared in the bush. Only
Providence knows how long it took
him to get through to his country
but he managed it. He is still alive
although almost blind, and is always
ready to give the inquiring white
man stories of his adventure—of how
he hunted and stole his food, hid in
logs at the approach of hostile blacks,
sneaked past camps, almost died of
thirst and hunger, and how he
found every man’s hand, black or
white, against him. The hardihood
that stood him in such good stead in
his youth remains with him in his old
ap Not long ago his failing sight was the cause
of his being bitten on the finger by a death-adder.
He suffered a great deal, but recovered even from
that!
* * * *
‘'Killy T.”: He was telling us about the
sheep-dog trials at Green Spring. “I’d entered that
there red dorg of mine,” said he, “knowin’ damwell
there wasn’t no dorg in that districk, nor no other
districk ’twepn here ’n’ the Resurrection, what could
show him the way to yard sheep. Well ’iv course I
was nobody in pertickler, ’n’ me dorg, ez you can
see, don’t look anythin’ worth mentionin’, so the
blokes pretends he ain’t deservin’ of more’n passin’
notice. Although Drop walks rings round every
other dorg on the job, them judges puts up a mag
about him bein’ no class coz his toes turn in, ’n’
on account iv his havin’ five white hairs in his tail
when everybody knows a true-bred on’y orter have
tour, ’n’ they gives the first prize to a piebald dorg
owned be the squatter what practically runs the
gaudy show. Well, does that madden me? You’re
right, it do. I offers to fight, ride, drink or run
any man on the ground fer ninepence, ’n’ nobody
bein’ willing’, sez I to the squatter bloke: ‘See ’ere
Mister Gee Almighty, if yer worth yer salt ’n’ 'ave
the pluck iv a louse you’ll cover the fifty notes I
plunk down ’ere ’n’ now, backin’ my dorg agin vour
dorg, or any other dorg on God’s earth, fer the doin’
iv tricks with sheep, best three out of five.’ ” Rec-
konin’ on havin’ the referee with him, the squatter
John tears out fifty, ’n’ covers mine. We gets goin'.
We puts sheep into a pen; we puts ’em through a
’oiler log; we puts ’em through a fence, ’n’ under a
fence, ’n’ Drop there he wallops the piebald dorg
’ands down. But me last trick’s a corker. I hangs
a rope to a bough, ’n’ sez I, ‘Now get to it. Your
THE CATASTROPHE.
“ Wot's 'appened Bill? Is ’e down?”
"Yairs. Hes broke 'is bleeding neck.”
"Blimey! There goes me - two bob!”
dorg’s gotter dog a sheep up that rope or lose yer
money on yeh.’ They snorts like a ’og with the
influenza, but I holds ’em, ’n’ presently they starts
the piebald mongrool to it, but gorstruth, he never
come within a mile of pullin’ it off. So it’s me
’n’ Drop for it. I sets him goin’, I rallies him to it,
1 pinches him, ’n’ pushes him, ’n’ he works that gaudy
juinbuck all round the rope. Then 1 cuts loose ’n’
cursed him into sich a state of excitement lie jist
whirls the blessed ewe, till she, seein’ no other way
out, takes to the rope, and up she goes fair into the
tree. “Ah, garni” retorted an incredulous hearer,
“no sheep would climb a rope—it’s impossible.”’
' es, I know,” replied the drover sadly. “Drop’s
found out afterwards it wasn’t possible, ’n’ I never
could get him to do it again.’ 9
* \
“De Oriel” : Opossum cuts! Plenty of
them in the Speck. Mrs. Green, of Sheffield (Tas.),
has the best specimen I have seen. It is very large,’
has a long - rat tail, a cat’s head and marsupial coat.
It has much the same habits as the ordinary tom.
“Widgee”: Some of the boys on the Ten
Mile had their» scran at Flannagan’s, though most of
us scratched together our own bit of tucker. For
a change I reckoned I’d try Flannagan. I asked
Bill what were the chief items on the bill of fare.
“Aw,” said Bill, in a hopeless sort of voice, “goat
’n’ galah.” So I blew in to dinner one day. “Goat,
please,” I told Hannah. “No,” said Hannah, “galah
f’r you. Th’ goat’s f’r th’ boarders.”
* * * *
‘‘Barcoo” : The overlantler of Bananaland
who promenaded big mobs over long distances in
years gone by had many difficult obstacles to sur-
mount. Our boss had control of 16,000 of the
worst of all sheep to get successfully to their des-
tination-lambs just weaned and off the shears. The
big drought of 1900 was at its worst. The “mon-
keys” had been purchased by Bill Nutting from
Steve Fairbairn, then owner of Beaconsfleld (C.Q.).
Owing to grassless, waterless spaces it was neces-
sary to train the sheep to Bogantungan, on the
C.Q. railway. From this jump-off the jumbucks
were piloted practically along the crest of the main
dividing range, a distance of over 300 miles, past
Anakie (where the sapphires are), Springsure and
Tarooin, towards where the land was well grassed
and flowing - with water, round about Moree (N.S.W.).
During the trip 17 good nags perished. The trek
lasted, owing to deviations, about nine months, and
only two men saw the job out. These were the
boss and the second. No less than 51 hands, shep-
herds, cooks and horsetailers, passed through the
camp books. There were 105 head of horses in
the outfit when the day of thanksgiving (delivery
day) arrived. Never less than 60 of them used to-
be somewhere in the lead, having a spell on an/
rough agistment procurable. But the best feat of
overlanding that I know was below Chinchilla
; The Condamine River came down a
full-banker the day before the expedition arrived
Great ingenuity was required to pick where a pass-
age could be effected, and eventually a spot was
chosen. A previous flood had rooted out a huge
gum-tree’ the butt of which had swung almost into
mid-stieam and anchored there, its roof resting
the top of the steep bank. Between the butt
and the shore, where the flock clustered, there was
an outcrop of rocks. The intervening spaces of
rushing waters were bridged with saplings, cut in
the adjoining bush, and lashed together by wire.
Then the temporary structure was covered with
sheets of bark, on which earth was About
50 sheep were carried over and held near the head
of the bridge. The woollies on the take-off side
being hungry, it was not long before one of the
leaders ventured up to his mates. That fixed it.
The first sheep was across at 8 o’clock in the morn-
ing ; the tail one jumped off after his mates at
~ o clock that evening. No losses.
“Luluai” : A historian of some note —a
reverend father and a “white man,” though cursed
to suffer for the misdeeds of his fellows across the
Rhine—is located in the heart of Kaiser Wilhelm
Land, late German New Guinea, where he sees few
people but Kanakas and hears no tongue but theirs.
Recently I partook of his hospitality and learnt some-
thing of local native customs and of his interest-
ing though lonely life. His best-known neighbor is
the Kaiserin Augusta Fluss, or Sepik River. The
natives on the coast adjacent to the river, and for
20 miles along its course, refer to it as Andjinemar,
or Andimar. “'‘And” means clay, mud, sand or
soil. “Nemaro” means sea. Therefore “Andjine-
mar” refers to the usual appearance of the waters
of the river as they join the ocean—“muddy sea.”
From Karadjundo to Ganduonum, 30 to 90 miles up,
tile river is called Kougea, and from Ganduonum to
Malu, 230 miles from the mouth, the word Awidjat
is used. The meaning of these two words is not
apparent. The name Sepik originated with the
natives of the islands adjacent to the mainland at
Wewak, and means “current from the east.” In
the south-east season—half the year—the discolored
waters of the river are carried a great distance
westerly and surround the islands referred to.
A FATTENING DIET.
JACK (seeing himself in distorting mirror):
"There if are, Snowy—I always said
beer was nourishing .”
K.D.S. : One thing trappers were cer-
tain that the fox would not do, and that was
eat his brother. But this season a trapper at
Wentworth (N.S.W.) actually watched an old fellow
wiring- into the carcase of a brother just deceased.
(Continued on page 22.)
THE BUSH MAILMEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
VICTORIA.
\\ e sing the praise in verse and prose
Of pioneers who roam ;
Of men who died on foreign shores,
Or did their bit at home;
But there’s a man we somehow miss,
So, when the lights grow pale,
Just fill your glass and drink to this—
“ The men who run the mail.”
They wear no gaudy uniform—
They mostly wear a grin—
And some are gone beyond reform,
Sunk deep in ways of sin;
But safely in their keep the mail
Is carried to and fro
Through mountains where the dingoes wail
And plains where dust clouds grow.
The wind storm sways the mountain tops
Along the upward track;
The mailman sees the sign and stops
To tighten up his pack ;
Or bows his head against the wind,
Where snow falls thick and white,
And with the pack-horse close behind
lie battles through the night.
Where summer suns gleam bloody red
And sink within the haze,
And half the land is parched and dead,
The other half ablaze;
Where straining bullocks tug or lag,
And drovers curse the drought,
The mailman fills his water-bag
And heads for further out.
Across the plains where sand-storms roll,
And rotting corpses hide,
Beside the dried up waterhole
The haggard mailmen ride.
What odds if water’s scarce and rank,
They have their work to do;
In blinding storms, past dam and tank
They bring the mailbags through.
TWILIGHT GEORGE.


SPORTING NOVELS
in the
“Bookstall” Scries of Australian Novels
ONE SHILLING each; Is. l£d. posted.
All Booksellers and Bookstalls throughout the Commonwealtn.
ARTHUR WRIGHT’S Great Stories.
> Australia’s Most Popular Sporting Novelist.
“IN THE LAST STRIDE.” “GAMBLER’S GOLD.”
“RUNG IN.” “UNDER A CLOUD.”
“THE SPORT FROM HOLLOWLOG FLAT.”
“A ROGUE’S LUCK.” “OVER THE ODDS.”
“THE BREED HOLDS GOOD.” “UNDER A CLOUD.”
“THE WHITE CHAMPtON.”
By DON DELANEY.
“THE CONVICT PUGILIST.”
By GEO. COCKERILL.
“IN RACING SILK.”
By GERALD R. BALDWIN.
“EROS! EROS WINS!”
By F. AGAR.
“WOLAROI’S CUP.”
By AMBROSE PRATT.
“MYSTERY OF THE BOXING
CONTEST.”
By BERT JAMES.
“THE DOINGS OF DAVE.” By CON DREW.
A great story of sporting “crooks.” No racegoer can afford to miss this volume of
close-packed humor.
Hundreds of thousands of these sporting novels have already
been sold.
Write for Complete Catalogue (free) of
OVER 100 AUSTRALIAN SHILLING NOVELS
Published by
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL GO. LTD.,
476 George Street, SYDNEY.
IF
l
&
yiGN ofJhW\C£
fg
ABOUT YOUR
SHEEP DIP-
I
With the result of your WOOL CLIP so much
dependent upon the DIP, your choice is extremely
important. Choose wisely ! Choose a Dip that
has proved its Efficiency absolutely and conclusively—
not only in the Chemist’s Laboratory, but under
Australian Service Conditions
miio
POWDER SHEEP DIP
is being endorsed on every hand, without
reservation. Its long-lasting protection is
fast becoming a by-word. Its popularity
amongst Woolgrowers and its Sales are
increasing by leaps and bounds. What
other reason for that than demonstrated
Efficiency and Service? That’s why we say,
Buy by the "VALLO” Sign of Service.
It’s your Protection. See that you get it!
All Stores Can Supply
Manufacturers: A. VICTOR LEGGO 8£ CO.
MELBOURNE - SYDNEY - BRISBANE
Why Swelter in the Summer Heat?
Men’s “TUSSOCOOL” Suits
Ready-to-Wear.
Comfort in Summer is to a great extent a
matter of wearing suitable clothes, let the
thermometer rise ever so high. You won’t
feel the heat in a Leviathan “Tussocool”
Suit.
“Tussocool” Suits, skilfully tailored as illus-
tration, from strongly-woven Egyptian
Cotton, Tussorettes —which improve with
washing and ironing—plain or striped de-
signs. in biscuit, stone or straw shades, loose
facings and removable bottoms for washing.
Suits measuring over 3Sin. chest, 2/6 extra.
Suits measuring over 42in. chest, 5/6 extra.
Write for Free Patterns of “Tussocool”
Suiting's and New Summer Folder.
“TUSSORA” SHIRTS.
“Tussora” is as light and cool as silk, but it wears
better by far. These shirts have the appearance
of best Tussore Silk, fashioned with Gauntlet
Cuffs, split sleeves and sleeve lifts, soft “Rivers-
dale” Collar supplied FREE with each shirt.
11s. 6d. each (3 for 33/9).
ORDER BY POST.
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
K
NOW BEADY.
SUMMER
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOG.
Free on Application.
Leviathan
Cr. Swanston & BourKe Streets, Melbourne
PLEASE NOTE- WE HAVE NO BRANCHES.
BRITISH-MADE
10-inch
DOUBLE-
SIDED
3/-
EACH
(N.Z. 3/6)
rc
A
10-inch
DOUBLE-
SIDED
31-
EACH
(N.Z. 3/ 6)
Some Splendid 10-inch Double-sided
REGAL RECORDS, all at 3|- each.
6451
j A Little Child shall Lead Them
{ Please, Mr. Conductor, Don’t Put Me Off
Charles Holland, baritone.
Charles Holland, baritone.
7268
j The Story the Angehis Told . . .
{ Swinging High, Swinging Low
Stanley Ivirkby, baritone.
Stanley Kirkby, baritone.
7370
(Boys of the Dardanelles March Band of
[ High School Cadets’ March
H.M. Scots Guards.
, Silver Stars Band.
7291
.. Frank Webster.
Iverns and Stuart.
( A Perfect Pay
l Somewhere a Voice is Calling (Duet)
7289
S Bonnie Bouelie Polka
l L,es Folies Polka
Alexander Prince.
Alexander Prince.
7337
\ There’s Silver in Your Hair
{ My Heart is Calling You . .
... Miss Gertie Gitana.
Thomas and Quartette.
7377
\ Lass from County Mayo
I You Can’t Make Me Stop Loving
Will Oakland.
Will Oakland.
7386
f Maid of the Mountains— Selections Regal Orchestra.
( Maid of the Mountains Waltz Regal Orchestra.
7389
( Washington Post March Alexander Prince.
( Stars and Stripes For Ever March Alexander Prince.
7395
.(.Have You News of My Boy Jack? Miss Joan Murray.
( Every Little While Miss Freda Baring.
7398
( Take Me Back to Dear Old Blighty ..
{ Some Night, Some Waltz, Some Girl
Miss Dorothy Ward.
Miss Dorothy Ward.
r>B33
j The Sunshine of Your Smile
( Wonderful Bose of Love .. .
Miss Julie Doiaro.
Miss Julie Dolaro.
7404
F. W. Ramsey.
F. W. Ramsey.
\ Take Me Back to Dear Old Blighty .
( Sing, Sing, Why Shouldn’t We Sing?
7405
| There’s a Ship that’s Bound for Blighty
[ If I Knock the “L.” out of Kelly
Frank Newton.
F. W. Ramsey.
7406
j Fancy You Fancying Me
I Ireland Must Be Heaven
William Thomas
William Thomas.
7407
1 Oh, How She Could Yacki Hacki ...
I Down Where the Swanee River Flows
Trevor and Thompson - .
Trevor and Thompson.
7413
J Macushla
[ Kate Muldoon
William Thomas.
William Thomas.
7433
( Live For To-day (Maid of Mountains) Robert Carr.
{A Bachelor Gay (Maid of Mountains) Robert Carr.
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR “REGAL” RECORDS—
<SVDNEY N.S.W. —Grafonola, Ltd., Daking House, Rawson Place.
jffiLBOCRNE. VIC., and TASMANIA.—Messrs. Hugo Wertheim Pty.,
Ltd., 173 William Street, Melbourne.
BRISBANE, Q. —King and King, Ltd., Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A. —Cornell, Ltd., 123 Pirie Street.
PERTH. W.A. —H. R. Firth, Royal Arcade.
4TICKLAND, N.Z. —Arthur H. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street.
WET LINGTON, N.Z.—Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., AVakefield_& Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.—Webley Sons & Gofton, Ltd., 243 High Street.
DUNEDIN, N.Z. —Webley Sons & Gofton, Ltd.
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.


LIMITED,
>
O
ft
w
«*
O
6
fir a tv
ART METAL. SHOP FRONTS AND SHOW CASES.
ARCHITECTURAL ENRICHMENTS AND ART METAL CEILINGS
Stamping and Spinning done for the Trade. Stamping for Sheet Metal Motor Bodies and Parts
When planning buildings or extensions to Factory or Office consult us in the matter of
CEILINGS, WALLING and ROOFING. We Specialise in STEEL CEILINGS, “DURA-
BESTOS,” “CEILYTE” & ROOFING TILES.
SHOWROOMS:— ="" ' ■ ■ -
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, BRISBANE, HOBART, LAUNCESTON.
a Specialty.
HEAD OFFICE AND WORKS: Baptist Street, Redfern, N.S.W.
POSTAL ADDRESS: Box 474 G.P.0., Sydney.
“Hayseed”: Re “Melos’s” par (B.
18/9/’l9) in defence of the wedge-tailed eagle. The
eagle of his acquaintance n.ust be a very different
dicky-bird to the one we have in mid-north S. Aus.
Part of my time is taken up in trying to make both
ends meet by breeding lambs, and during the lamb-
ing time the birds are a pest. I have seen an
eagle swoop down and carry off a lamb three weeks
old whilst I was driving the flock. I’ll admit their
cleverness in hunting. It's wonderful to see two
birds acting in concert, scaring a flock of sheep
so as to get at the lambs.
* * * *
“W.H.E.”: The “man on the land” has
nothing to worry about —especially if he happens
to be an orchardist! All he has to do is to wander
through groves of trees laden with luscious fruits
and contemplate his ever-increasing bank balance.
That at least is the average city man’s idea of it.
The prices obtained for choice fruit exposed for
sale in Dago .shops—mostly polished with a filthy
rag—tell of the greed of the orchardist. Now, I’m
one of the hungry tribe, and I want to tell the
rest of the story—and this part is about a cease-
less fight against the pests that Nature provides to
keep “the backbone of the country” from wiping
out the overdraft that tortures his sleep and makes
his day-dreams hideous. It’s not so much the agent
that I’m up against—it’s the forces that array them-
selves in battalions in the orchard. And, like State
Governors, rabbits and hundreds of other pests, they
are mostly imported. If I'm not out o’ nights
fiddling with kerosene and other traps, I’m nearly
blinded, scalded or suffocated during the day trying
to evict my unwelcome boarders from their cosy
quarters with a variety of sprays and poisons that
require a laboratory to prepare and a scientist’s
knowledge to use effectively. Further, no matter
what the cost of my gas-plant and spray-pumps, and
the variety of my munitions, I’m not able to “pass
it on” to the epicurean public like the steamship-
owners and other favored pirates. My produce is
perishable, and the price must be regulated by the
inexorable law of supply and demand, and I have
to take as gospel the yarn the profiteer agent sends
me from the city. So, after I’ve thrown the dis-
heartening return across the breakfast table to Mum,
it’s no w'onder that my language is purple as I
make another attack on the army of enemies that
are concealed somewhere among the “magnificent
groves of fruit-trees” that I’m supposed to own,
and curse the day that I ever saw an orchard. This
is merely some of the insect tribe that makes cease-
less efforts to establish its claim to partnership in
my fruit-growing farm, and which, with a won-
drous collection of contrivances, I do my best to
Btoush :
Oodlin moth, woolly aphis, mursel scale, San Jose
scale, red mites, leaf blister mite, thrips, fruit-fly,
pear slug, brown olive scale, white ants, leaf-eating
beetles, borers, curculio, white wax, cottony cushion
scale, white louse, black smut, furnagine, dicky rice,
fig beetle, etc.
After I’ve been blistered from head to foot and
smell like the 10 Egyptian plagues in a fumigating
and spraying tussle with that pestiferous tribe, I’ve
got to begin again with what the scientists describe
as fungi:—■
Black spot, black rot, bitter rot, mildew, leaf
blight, fruit spot, shot-hole, brown fruit rot, leaf
curl, freckle, rust., melanose, mandarin brown spot,
jnal-di-goma (collar-rot), honey fungus, oidium and
downy mildew.
Are there any Abo. readers who yearn for a
luxurious life and quickly-earned competency ? If
they don’t stop to think of drought nor contem-
THE PICKET.
“Did you say 'Right wheel,' sergeant?”
plate the army of parasites that assail the orchardist,
then fruit-growing is an ideal occupation for them.
I won’t disturb them by mentioning the slimy
thieves who pilfer the fruit when in transit on the
railways, nor the vagrants who rob the orchard and
break down the trees in darkness. And it’s not
worth growling about packing and grading, nor
the cost of cases—it’s all in the game. I’m con-
vinced the fruit-grower ought to be the most happy
and prosperous producer in Australia because the
income-tax never troubles him, and there are no
Pests that he cannot destroy by persistent hard
graft—except the politicians who loquaciously pro-
fess to be the bosom friends of the man on the land.
HE HAD AN EXCUSE.
“Dost 'ee hear old man Tregonnin's dropped dead, an ’ on ’is ninety-fowrth birthday, too?”
“No; but I bain't surprised. 'E was always', very delicate.”
“McPherson” : If rats are bogging into the
feed in the stable, clean out a bin and three-quarters
fill it with water. Cover the surface with about six:
inches of chaff. This will float and make an
apparently firm surface. Next sprinkle some oats,
bran or corn, or whatever other feed they are de-
stroying, on the top of the chaff. When the vermin
hop down they are drowned. Similar traps can be
set outside the stable or in the fowl-yards, where
rats are as a rule very troublesome; but in these
cases it is a good thing to use tubs sunk into the
ground. Pamper the rats in these for a week.
Then one evening arrange the water, chaff and food
as in the case of the stable bin, and get the wife
up in the morning to fish out the carcases.
* * * *
“Azac”: The lantana-seed fly seems to
have justified its importation from Hawaii, for
already it has done great work in the destruction
of the seeds of the weed. It was in March, 1917,
that the tiny insects
were liberated at Gordon-
vale (N.Q.). They estab-
lished themselves quickly
and spread widely, and
now are to be found in
every , lantana-infested
district in North Queens-
land. The maggots of the
flies, working inside the
kernel, cause the fruit to
drop at the slightest jar.
With some trouble a few
ripe berries can be col-
lected, but they will
mostly be found to have
been eaten out. Of
course, the flies miss a
few of the seeds, and Dr.
Illingworth, the officer
in charge of the experi-
ment, suggests that if
the lantana is to be
totally exterminated the
insects must be given a
hand by man. Old bushes should be cut out and
new ones rooted up.
* * * *
“Wart”: “Nick Bottom” (B. 25/9/T9)
asks the Abo. Parliament some questions about
Binghi’s cutting tools. I will reply for Tasmanian
Black Brother. He had special quarries, one on the
western shore of Great Lake, two on the Macquarie
River, one at Native Point on the South Esk, one at
Pipeclay Lagoon (South Arm), one at Spring Bay,
one on the River Tamar, one at Native Tier (River
Plenty), and one at Mount Communication (Tasman’s
Peninsula). In every case the stone was a bluish-grey
mud-stone, which weathered to a yellowish tint. I
know of only one knife which differs from others and
that is made from a piece of opalised wood. There
is no flint in the Speck, and the stone Binghi used is
about the best available. It was chosen for its
hardness and conchoidal fracture. The Tasmanian
blackfellow never ground any of his tools. They
were chipped to shape, and some of them were
beautifully done. One or two ground stone-axes
have been credited to these people, but they were
in the possession of either G. A. Robertson or James
Bonwick. Robinson was Protector of Aboriginals in
Tasmania and Victoria ; Bonwick was a schoolmaster
in both States. Botli of them got their collections
mixed. The Tasmanians used a tomahawk which
weighed a couple or more pounds, a stone six or seven
inches in diameter chipped to a circle, which was
used as an anvil to break bones on, and several
varieties of knives. These last were shaped to be
used in the left hand, the cut being always made
towards the user. They had a tool called a duck-
bill, which was used for grooving the handles of
waddies, etc.; and they had one which was chipped
to a groove for scraping spears. I have seen a
couple of specimens of a tool —one was dug up in a
Launceston garden—shaped exactly like a small,
blunt wedge. They’ve no cutting edge, and my
theory is that they were used for the finer chipping,
being just pressed with the palm of the hand against
the tool under manufacture. There is no difference in
the knives Binghi was using at the finish and those
he used 10, 20, perhaps 50,000 years before. One
found in the tin drifts of the Doone mine must have
been lost when the Ringarooma River flowed across
its present channel. Another was found south of
Launceston in a bed of gravel which must have been
laid down when a river ran out where the Catholic
Cemetery is now—and that was earlier than the day
before yesterday. I have examined all the Tasmanian
implements to which I could get access to see if
there were any made of stone not found in the
Speck. Will other Abo. observers examine mainland
collections to see if any of them contain Tasmanian
mud-stone implements? Something of Binghi’s
migrations might be learnt in this manner. The
usual theory is that the route was from north to
south. But that isn’t absolutely certain.
* * * *
* * * *
“F.R.”; The fox as a rabbit killer is a
fraud. While working near Coonamble (N.S.W.)
I examined the stomachs of several foxes. Rabbits,
usually young ones, were found only in a few. I’ll
admit that when hungry the brutes will eat almost
anything: I have known them to nose after and eat
small beetles and frogs, and there are times when
they will dine on fruit. But when there’s a food
scarcity it is generally the farmer’s hen-roost or
sheep-breeder’s lambs that suffer.
“Harborite”: On a recent Sunday after-
noon two Jacks (or perhaps one was a Jill) visited
the thickly-populated marine suburb of Balmain
(Sydney Harbor) and took a lunar of their
surroundings from the mast of a ship in dry dock.
At sunset they were still in the rigging and greeted
the falling evening in the same hilarious manner
as the fraternity does from gum-trees. It was a
British ship, so naturally her foreign crew didn’t
know that Jack was laughing at the way Britannia
rules the waves.
“D.F.”: A standard work on drugs and
medicines, published in F.S.A., describes eucalyptus
oil and then has a little about the eucalypt itself.
At the end it* says: “Habitat, California.” Califor-
nia no doubt appreciates our blue-gums better than
Australia has done; but, hang it all, it might leave
us the credit of having originally produced the
vegetable!
* * * *
“Z.”: Melbourne Uni. grounds harbor all
sorts of birds and beasts, swans, wild duck, rabbits,
professors (wild and tame), logarithms and sundries.
Che latest to add itself to the list was a fox, who
wandered into Newman College, the new R.C. hostel,
and gave the students some good sport before he was
run down. Later he was given his liberty and left
for more open country.
• # • «
“Dohori” : You see some queer driftwood
in New Guinea. The other morning a wild-eyed
battler in a pair of pants and a singlet appeared at
the pub with a baby alligator under his arm. He
called for three whiskies, put them in a row,
mopped them up one after the other, patted his
infant on the head, and with a “so long” faded out.
* * * *
“Bouragi”: Restrictions on the supply of
grog to natives of Papua are so rigid and the penal-
ties so heavy—to supplier and supplied alike—that
the drinking habit has no hold as yet. But there
are exceptions to the rule. The most typical
Papuans, the liiwais, from the Fly River estuary,
brew a potent drink of their own. For this reason
and because they were employed in Queensland
waters by pearlers for many years, the habit is
common among them. The Melanesian darkies of
the Eastern Division who have been much in con-
tact with traders and miners have picked up the
taste. When I was last in Samarai one of these,
with several mates, raided a store and had a rare
old all-night spree. The leader was a head boat-
boy, and had been sailing out of Samarai with
traders and beehe-de-mer fishers for years. The
natives of the Milne Bay goldfield in the early days
got plenty of chances to sample the stuff that biteth
like a serpent, and they made the most of them.
THE REFUGEE.
“Yer know, Edgar, that cove's bin up there
orl the afternoon!”
“’E wus there yesterdee, too!”
“Well, it's time someb'dy told the poor cow
that them lions at the bottom is only
gammon!”
“Bill Bowyang”: The iguana’s worst foe
in the N.Q. bush is the “squeaker” or soldier-bird.
I have often watched from 20 to 30 of these fowls
hovering over a gohanna and making vicious charges
at him. In some favored parts of Bananaland the
gohannas grow to great size; I came across a veteran
near Cooktown which measured sft. 2in. in length.
1 sold the fat to Ah Sow across the creek for 10s.,
and gave the money to a holy man in exchange for
rum.
THE URBAN VANDAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The pride of Hollowlog was Pound;
In chopping contests he
Had beaten all for miles around.
To town he came to see
The show and prove, with logic sound,
Just how to fell a tree.
His axe-blade, swathed in rag, was keen;
Most carefully he’d packed
It in his bag, his shirts between;
No care the weapon lacked
\\ hen Pound was near. It might have been
A Cup horse largely backed.
A violinist to his Strad.
Ne’er more devotion gave.
One morn as though completely mad
He rose to curse and rave—
The man with whom he boarded had
Emploj'ed the blade to shave!
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.


:;3
m
■
'' ' 1
Cyclists will be interested in
these Two New Cycle Tyres.
The illustration depicts our latest Dunlop and Oceanic cycle covers. The Dunlop carries the same
design as our popular “Railroad” motor tyre, a cover that has won great popularity with motorists.
The Cycle “Railroad” will become equally popular—owing to its great wearing qualities and its
fine grin of the road, thus ensuring no loss of propulsive effort on tle part of the rider. The
patterned non-skid Oceanic is also a fine proposition. Riders will like the appearance of these
new covers but it’s their fine quality and durability that is going to add to the reputation of
DUNLOP TYRES
for Service, Economy and Easy Riding. Their cost is no more than for the plain Dunlop and
Oceanic tyres. Ask your agent to show you the new patterned covers—which are now available in
all standard sizes. ★ ★ *
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. of Aust. Ltd.
And N.Z.
All States
#;.w. st
mM
t* ■■
t #• #
f
■ ;&i
'■ -vv.; '.
wm
.
3
::
m.®
.
;
«*** at*' ,
Is
t
1
■ *0 c ■
'' m a
■
N
.
» •
■jy\
\
.
:V*
' \
ms. ■■■ ■ ■
I


Some Coughs take a lot of “shaking off”
—generally several bottles of the ordinary
cough mixtures; but the worst and most
obstinate cough will disappear like magic
if treated with
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
Under the influence of this super-remedy
the improvement is immediate.
W. G. HEARNE & Co. Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street,
SYDNEY.
H
1
w
COCOS'
COUCHS
V/
LUNG
TROU2U9
cboup
CHEST
AFFECTIONS
and boldness—and common-sense. Here he
has spoken what the world has long been
waiting to hear:—-
The quarrel between philosophy and poetry is
notorious and inveterate; the patronage of poetry by
philosophy as stupid as it is solemnly recognisable.
For philosophy attempts to comprehend God’s pur-
poses into some system or another: a way which, if
effectual, at once enables man to teach God His
business, or at least to nag Him about it, playing
Lgeria to His Kuma. “God,” says Heine, “created
man in His image—and man made haste to return
the compliment.” The philosophers are always re-
turning the compliment; stoking the chimneys red-
hot to ran out the Almighty’s purposes into moulds
of this or that system. But if by a stretch of
fancy we can conceive Hegel or Comte or Bergson or
any of these constructives as knowing all about it,
why, then, Hegel or Comte or Bergson is theoreti-
cally as good as God —and then, the Lord stiffen for
us all the last barrier between theory and practice !
Literature, perhaps, never bestowed a
heavier kick on philosophy, with its endless
arrogance and bewilderment. The philoso-
phers will ever be settling “the Almighty’s
purposes.” The futility of the whole thing
was realised by Kant when he said that the
inscrutable wisdom of Providence is shown
as much by what is concealed as by what
is revealed. Let that serve as an epitaph.
But when philosophers are not endeavoring
to open that “door to which there is no
key” they may be “wise and eloquent.”
In discussing education, the education of
“a gentleman” even, Locke says: “I cannot
forbear to say I would have him learn a
trade, a manual trade; nay, two or three,
but one more particularly.” Locke could
not have foreseen the position to-day, but
his counsel contains perhaps the finest solu-
tion for its perplexities which anybody has
propounded so far. If everybody had a trade
that would end “class consciousness” at a
stroke. It would end the strike, for no
organisation would have a monopoly of
craftsmanship, and it would vastly increase
the world’s production. And the reaction
on personal character produced by the con-
sciousness that one is a skilled tradesman
could not fail to be beneficial. It looks
like the way out, not for this generation,
alas, but at least for the next. Thus we
return to the McCaughey bequest. And if
the choice is to be made between teaching
a trade or its scientific sublimation, as in
industrial chemistry, and literature, even
with a Quiller-Couch in the chair, let the
choice be for Locke’s idea of education. In-
stead of the too-often inane educational pro-
ducts of our primary and secondary schools,
let us have a tradesman first and then deco-
rate him with whatever educational orna-
mentation is considered desirable, or let him
seek in the University the higher planes of
industrial knowledge. This is not any
charge that in its present conception of its
mission the University is ignoring the prac-
tical side of life, only that a new age is
demanding new things educationally all
round. Though, it is perhaps a finer thing
to be able to build a poem than a house,
yet it is better to be able to plan a house
than scan a poem, and in the new age a
Master of Crafts is like to “cut more ice”
than a Master of Arts.
P. E. Q.
A Satchel of Books
Mufti by “Sapper” (Cyril McNeile), published
by Hodder and Stoughton, isn’t much of a story,
and Derek \ ane, the “typical Englishman,” isn’t a
very striking character; but there is a lot of
interesting observation as well as reflections of some
value, inside the covers. “Mufti” covers a wide
field. The life behind the lines has been pictured
almost often enough, but here is something of in-
terest about the life in the English homes where
the sick were nursed back to fighting trim. The
reflections occur when the officers who are being
patched up discuss what is going to happen after-
wards :—-
“You take an officer who never talks to his men,
practically never sees ’em—treats them as autom-
atons to do a job. Never sacrifices his own
comfort. What sort of a show are you going to
have?”
“Damn bad,” said Vane, nodding his head. “And
you take a fellow who talks to ’em, knows ’em well,
is a friend to ’em, and explains things—that’s the
vital point—explains things; listens to what they
have to say—even makes some small amendments
if he thinks they’re right. A fellow who makes
them take a pride in their show. What then?
A good many of the bosses will have to alter their
ways, incidentally. No man is going to sweat
himself in order that someone else up the road can
keep a second motor-car when the man himself
hasn’t even a donkey-cart. Over the water the men
didn’t object to the C.O. having a bedroom to him-
self ; but what would they have said if he’d gone
on to battalion parade in a waterproof one bad day
while they were uncloaked?”
The workman-—the English workman in particular
- —has learned a new discipline. But he has learned
also to expect something new from his leaders; and
until that is recognised there will be industrial
trouble. Fortunately while the war was being
fought the Whitley Committee in England showed
how the new demand might be satisfied.
Youth (Blackwood and Sons) is a collection of
three Joseph Conrad stories — I sea stories, of course;
and, equally of course, extraordinarily vivnd.
Besides “Youth,” the tale of the young first-mate
glorying in his strength, there is the powerful
Conrad story of the Light that Failed, “The End of
the Tether”—the night of the sailor-man, as
“Youth” is his morning. And the third is “The
Heart of Darkness.” There is great joy in reading
Conrad after a course of American best-sellers; and
you can buy him in this edition for less than half
the money charged for the Yankee best-seller.
The Apostle of the Cylinder, by Victor Rousseau
(Hodder and Stoughton), illustrates the occasional
value of fiction as a stimulant of serious thought.
The narrator is looked into a steel cylinder, and
awakens a. hundred years later in a new State
that is atheism, socialism and eugenics gone mad.
The saturnine figure of Dr. Sanson, the Dictator, and
of the sensual Boss Lembken, his lieutenant, are
finely drawn. Eugenists in particular will find
the story absorbing. It is powerfully written, and
as a companion volume to “Looking Backward” and
“When the Sleeper Wakes” is worth a place in
the social saviour’s reference library.
The Room, ••ith the Tassels, by Carolyn Wells
(Doran, New York), is a detective-ghost story. A
party of friends advertise for a haunted house.
They get one. The ghost appears and gives two
of them the death warning. they both die to time
—poisoned. The body of one disappears mysteri-
ously. Then the sleuthing commences. The de-
scriptive work could be much worse and the
dialogue much better.
A Vision of the Possible, by Dr. James W. Barrett,
lieutenant-colonel in the R.A.M.C., and a man of
many distinctions, is a further record of his three
years’ war work done in Egypt and thereabouts.
The vision part of the story deals with the improve-
ments that might be made in time for next war,
though a remarkable measure of efficiency was
attained even as things were. Egypt has long had
a reputation as a clearing-house for the sins of the
world, the place where three kinds of vice meet,
also the spot where the Ten Commandments leave
off. When a cosmopolitan army came to this
place and found there a cosmopolitan population,
mostly undesirable, and a most cosmopolitan Flossie,
very many things were bound to happen. Reading
the long, long list of uncouth complaints which
were all part of the day’s work in the land of
Abdul Pyramid, the average health record of the
Australian and other forces seems to have been
really remarkable. The book is recommended to
diseased persons, to those who think they may
become diseased, also to imaginary invalids and
morbid folk who suffer through unaccountable
persecution by parties unknown. Likewise it is
recommended to serious students, but if the morbid
people also buy it the circulation will be increased,
and it deserves a big circulation. (H. K. Lewis and
Co., London.)
The Victorian Oarsman, by John Lang, is an ex-
haustive record of race-rowing of every description
in the Cabbage State, from the first regatta held on
the Upper Yarra in 1857, to the present date. The
pioneer of rowing in Victoria was Professor Martin
Howy Irving, who learnt the art at Oxford, and who,
in 1851, had a place in the Balliol Eight, when it
was Head of the River. The Englu-n stva —the
long stroke with the straight back and the rhythmi-
cal swing—has characterised Australian rowing ever
since. When Sydney beat Leander in the Grand
Challenge Cup in 1912 the keenest observer could
see little fundamental difference in the methods of
the two crews. It was far otherwise when the Yale
men, with their short quick strokes, appeared on
the classic course ; and again when the Belgians won
first in 1906. In addition to details of every rowing
club and regatta in Victoria this book contains an
honor roll of the club members who took part in
the war, and much information about chamnionship
rowing in other States and in the United Kingdom.
A diligent search fails, however, to reveal the name
of the greatest Australian oarsman who fell in action
—namely, F. S. Kelly, of Sydney, three times winner
of the Diamond Sculls (in 1905 he rowed the course
in the record time of Bmin. 10 secs.), and the
greatest stroke Oxford ever had. The publishers are
A. H. Massina & Co., of Melbourne. Our copy from
the author.
The Inky Way
Justice Ferguson, the libel specialist on
the N. S. Wales Supreme Court Bench,
made an order the other day for the dis-
closure of the name of the writer of an
anonymous letter to a Dubbo paper, and
didn’t like doing it. “He would be sorry
to have it thought that the Court in every
case would compel a newspaper to withdraw
the shield of anonymity that covered the
writer of an article which might or might
not be libellous. Very often it was in the
public interest that people should, without
disclosing their names, have an opportunity
of bringing under public notice matters of
public interest, and of making comments,
perhaps stating facts, which could not be
so freely stated if the writer were bound to
disclose his name.” In this case plaintiff,
the chairman of the Local Land Board, a
semi-judicial person, alleges that he was
accused of fomenting sectarianism in con-
nection with the local hospital and making
other trouble; and his Honor’s view ap-
peared to be that upon the authorship might
depend whether it was fair comment or
otherwise. This interpretation of the law
seems rather to widen the privileges of the
press than to narrow them; for it implies
that what might be libellous if written by
a correspondent might not be libellous if
written on behalf of the newspaper itself—
presuming, of course, it could not be proved
that there was express malice (meaning per-
sonal venom) on the part of the newspaper’s
conductor.
H. G. Shaw, M.A., takes the chair of
Geelong Advertiser, in succession to li. L.
James, who returns to England. Shaw was
for years associate-editor of Brisbane Tele-
graph, had charge of an officers’ training-
school during the war, and later was on the
censorship staff.
“Boz” : Encouraged by the success of liis
monthly racing record, Facts and Forms.
and realising that the springtime is ripe,
Herbert Roth well has given up the job of
seeing Table Talk, Melbourne’s favorite
tea-and-twaddle Chronicle, to press, and has
converted his monthly into a weekly sporting-
paper, the Circle. Other sports are to be
dealt with besides that of kings, and Harri-
son Owen will supply the jingle the punter
is supposed to love, on a page called “In
the Barber’s Shop.”
“Zanthus” : In my par about doctors and
literature (B. 2/10/’l9) Smollett was re-
ferred to as a ship’s surgeon, but probably
not much of a doctor. I’m afraid I for the
moment donfused Smollett with one of his
heroes. Smollett himself was not a ship’s
surgeon, but a noted London doctor, with a
reputation as an expert in midwifery.
“Copabella”: What is happening to the
Australian version of the English language?
South-street competitors each year take
greater liberties with the traditional vowel
sounds, and push the letter “r” further and
further into the background. The Victorian
girls’ “public schools” show a similar ten-
dency, with so far not quite such crude re-
sults. To do away with the Cockney’s
triphthongal “ow” (ee-ah-oo) in favor of
the diphthong (o-oo) is an advantage; but
the would-be cultured have turned “ow”
into long 6 —an absurd affectation. The
diphthongal (long) i has become long a;
long ii is tortured to long e; short ato
short e; diphthong ea is ah ; while the good
Celtic final r seems to be considered indeli-
cate by the rahly naice, and is slurred into
an imitation of the Carolinian uh or ah.
The wish of the innovators, it is to be pre-
sumed, is to cultivate a pure English—of
Oxford and the Public Schools. It appears,
however, that some wag has been pulling
the Australian leg. I have been both at
Oxford and at an English public school and I
never heard the weird “cultured” Australian
lingo used in either save by an odd curate
of the comic-opera class. Good English,
such as the Scotch peasantry speak—some-
thing between the gross vowel-murder of
Whitechapel and the rough-jointed conso-
nant-play of the north-countryman—4s a
beautiful and very sweet-sounding thing; it
is a pity a few amateurs should try under
the parody of culture to foist a bastard ver-
sion of it upoh young Australia.
Business, Bobbery, etc.
• “Sara-Major” : The Digger in search of a
cottage or piece of land should look out for
sharks. Last week I was inspecting an allot-
ment in a Sydney suburb. It had been
offered to me by a city firm at £2 per foot
(I have since bought it at that) when an
agent sidled up. got into conversation and
presently said he had it for sale at £3 per
foot. These bandits are not above blocking
a genuine buyer in the hope of sooner or
later finding a mug to squeeze a profit from.
* * * *
“Hawker”: “Mol Bourne” (B. 25/9/’l9),
with bis complaint about Australian tool-
handles, reminds me. Ever since the begin-
ning of things this country has imported
wooden spoons for stirring jam. The Hun
submarine having cut off the supply a
Bananaland firm jumped in. Now the im-
ported spoon is to be had again in the
wholesale houses, side by side with the
Bananaland article. Prices for 18in. spoon
—before 1914, 4s. (id. per doz.; to-day, 9s.
Gd. for imported, Bs. (id. for Australian.
The latter should out the former, because the
retailer would ask Is. for each and would
naturally push the local one, but for the
fact that the contraption has a handle as
thick nearly as a broomstick and a bowl the
size only of a hen’s egg, wherefore the house-
wife says she might as well use a straight
stick, and turns it down in favor of the
foreign article. It was on this very point
that' the Hun used to beat the Britisher.
He would make any old thing for a cus-
tomer as the customer wanted it. The
British made it according to his plans, and
the customer could take it or leave it.
Mostly lie left it.
* * * *
An engineer’s story :
Dinner had just started in the township whose
Maori name means Howling Wind when out went the
electric lights. In a few moments the landlady
trotted in with two candles supported in tumblers.
“It’s this new kind o’ light,” she said. “It’s always
.going ont, and goodness knows we’ve rung up the
engineer often enough. lie ought to know better.
Perhaps if you gentlemen walked round he would
take more notice, you being strangers.” .liter din-
ner the lights came on and I thought it might be
interesting- to go round and see my brother engineer.
'l'lie power-house we found at the head of a dark
gully, where a stream chattered. Only a dim light
shone in the windows. Every door was locked, but
as we walked round the building we thought we saw
a face looking at us from a window. At last
the door opened. Just a crack, and a voice said,
“Who are you? Do you belong here?” We told
the voice we were visitors who wished to see his
lighting plant. He let us in and relocked the door.
A gas-engine coughed; a dynamo hummed alternately
crescendo and diminuendo. One electric lamp flut-
tered and a candle in a bottle did its best. In
this light the engineer’s face looked white and
drawn, and his eyes glittered. It struck me that
perhaps he was mad. “What was the trouble to-
night?” I asked. “Trouble? To-night?” He
laughed in a ghostly way. “Do you remember the
hymn about the hosts of Midian that prowled and
prowled around? That’s what happens here every
night. This town is full of Midianites. Look,
there are some now!” Pressed against the window
there certainly were faces ; their lips moved and the
heads nodded. “They rang me up—as if I would
put the lights out needlessly—till I nearly went
mad. So I’ve taken the receiver off. Then they
began to call personally.” He wiped a shaking hand
across his eyes. “I haven’t been out of here for
three days. They stop me in the streets and say,
‘What’s wrong with the lights?’ And I’m alone
here. The trouble? Well, this plant is like a
score of other two-dogpower ones in this country.
'They reckon on a small stream to run it; then find
the stream is too feeble and put in a gas-producer
plant. All right. But they get old plants that
need a gang of men to induce them to make gas. I
have to work all day to make enough gas to have a
hope of running at night. And what chance have
I of sleeping? I’ve had none for four days and
nights. They’re driving me mad. I daren’t go
outside.” Suddenly the gas-engine spluttered and
stopped coughing, and the glow in the globe died
away. Only the candle saved the situation. The
engineer rushed into the gas-room and we followed.
While he poked into dark recesses, we inspected the
water-power. “Wouldn’t turn a churn,” my com-
panion said. “We must get this man away from
here.” He was quite willing to leave in our car.
and we planned to call for him at midnight. The
lights struggled along till then, and when we reached
the power-house the hosts of Midian had gone tc
their homes. “Hurry, hurry!” -.said the engineer,
as he stole out to us. He was visibly worse. “She’s
making gas like a politician now,” he chuckled-.
“We’d better get away.” So we got away; and as
we' crossed the last ridge on the road, a rolling roar
came up to us, with a burst of flame from the
power-house. Howling Wind’s experiment in electric
lighting was over. The engineer had forgotten to
blow out the candle before he left, and escaping -ms
had done the rest.
THE GREAT ADVENTURE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The poet bays the patient moon
Concerning certain songs
Which now he cannot hope to croon
Because of sundry wrongs.
Because he has to wind the clock,
Set out the milk-jug, too, and lock
The house at night, and shift the cat,
His splendid muse has got a rat.
We thought once in our golden youth
To stride the wild, blind seas;
To pluck the gleaming seeds of truth
In far Hesperides;
We hoped to ride on Phoebus’ horses.
And tear the planets from their courses,
Alack | some nice girl smiled on us,
We stay and take the penny ’bus.
We primed ourselves for mighty trills
That might the gods coerce,
Or crash in thunder through the hills
And rock the universe,
But Mary Jane has got us wed,
And so we meekly sit instead,
And vulgar longings to appease
We scribble hopeless lines like these.
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


V
m
Without Once Shifting Gears
4370 Miles
in 7 days and 7 nights
In High Gear
Port M
UARIE
PERTH
PORT Augusta
4370 Miles Without Stopping the
Engine or Shifting the Gears
This is a record-breaking non-stop performance recently given by a stock
Model 90 Overland in a special test conducted in the United States—
State of Oklahoma —covering a distance almost equal to a run from Port
Macquarie to Perth and back to Port Augusta.
Sealed in high gjear, this car \yas driven for seven days and seven nights,
over roads both good and bad, through weather both good and bad, a daily
average of 624 miles—without a single stop.
Model 90 owners (there are 175,0000 f them) naturally take pride in this per-
formance. But their pride is of an earlier origin than this—for they have had
the opportunity to test this unusual car by personal experience under the
varying conditions of every-day demand. You, too, will be proud to own
an Overland Model 90. AUSTRALIAN distributors—
GARRATTS LTD., Sydney. ANDERSON & ADAMS LTD., Perth.
KELLOW-FALKINER PTY. LTD., Melbourne. H. G. HEATHORNE & CO. Ltd., Hobart.
AUTO-CARS LTD., Adelaide. A. HATRICK & CO., Wanganui, N.Z. ,
EAGER & SON, Brisbane. N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION, Christchurch,
, THE JOHN N. WILLYS EXPORT CORPORATION
165 Broadway, NEW YORK, U. S. A.


You will find fhe besf possible
'advice fo Sheepowners.
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
All y Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
df
BULLDOG
CRIP
.THE SELF VULCAHIZING/\
X. PATCH
mNY size puncture
BLOWOUT OR TORN PLACE
OBTAINABLE AT ALL GARAGES
PRODUCED ENTIRELY
IN AUSTRALIA.
£
<
$
v
This is the
Registered
Trade Mark
Of the best
place to get
your
Fishing Tackle,
Guns, Rifles,
Cartridges,
Tennis Goods, etc.
jMce
318 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
CAPILLARINE
1
for
Quick
Results.
A splendid growth of Hair can be produced
on the upper lip by the aid of CAPIL-
LARINE. Make up your mind to grow the
Moustache, and start using CAPILLARINE
right away. A preparation of unfailing
merit.
PRICK 10/6 JAR —POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEIM,
654- George Street, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
AUSTRALIAN
BH
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
gdf
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
gd
BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES- Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS:
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited,
“Collins House," 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sydney Agent: Adelaide Agent:
R. N. KIRK, 25 O’Connell Street. C. S. STOKES, 62 Brookman Buildings.
THE PALACE HOTEL,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OF PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
JOHN T. GLOWREY, Proprietor.
m
The AI
ritish!
s
m
LIGHT CAR
The Car for the Owner-Driver.
Send Your- Inquiry for early delivery
to Agent:
I. PHIZACKERLEY,
SYDNEY.
STANDARD MOTOR CO., LTD.,
W Coventry, England.
safeguard your health
QtJ.Collis Brownes
CWorodywe
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOR
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
ami in tiie Cougli of BKONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery
Oj all Chemists. Prices in England, lIS, SI-, 5j
Made in England.
fg
dfg
SEASICK
All
Chemists,
two sizes.
df
MOTHERSILL REMEDY CO. Ltd.,
C.ll Corner Clarence and Market Streets, Sydney.
SOLDIERS, SAILORS,
AIRMEN, NURSES,
TRAVEL IN COMFORT.
The only proved Remedy for
V SEA and TRAIN SICKNESS
MOTHERSILL'S
SEASICK REMEDY.
GUARANTEED TO PREVENT AND CURE
OR MONEY REFUNDED.
The O.C.S. Automatic Weighing Machine
FOR FREE RUNNING MATERIALS. NO POWER REQUIRED.
Manufacturers and Im-
porters of—
Boiler Flour Mill
Machinery
Oatmeal Mill Machinery
Brewers’ and Malsters’
Machinery
Superphosphate
Machinery
Elevators of various
designs
Apron Conveyors,
Gravity Conveyors
Adjustable Feeders
and Mixers
Flour and Bran Packers
Grinding Mills for all
Classes of Materials
Bottle-filling Machines
for Piccalilli, etc.
Size F 4.
Farmer s’ Grain
Cleaners
Fink Belting:
Sprocket Wheels
Elevator Buckets
Complete Grinding and
Dressing Plants for
Sugar, Spices, Starch,
Paint, etc.
Package Elevators
Bag Holders
Disc Grinding Mills
Malt Roller Mills
MADE IN AUSTRALIA. SUPPORT OUR OWN INDUSTRIES.
Schumacher Mill Furnishing Works Pty. Ltd.,
PORT MELBOURNE, VICTORIA. [1
Standard Mutual Building Society
(Melbourne) :
Profits on
Property Re-
Profits. Sales. Dividends. serves.
July, 1912 .. £3132 £859 8 p.c. = £2294 £31,144
£9560 Reserves transferred to Capital. . 21,584
Jan., 1913 .. 3038 486 8 p.c. = 2294 22,814
July, 1913 .. 3237 122 8 „ „ 2294 23,879
Jan., 1914 .. 3295 423 8 „ „ 2294 25,303
July, 1914 .. 3471 778 8 „ „ 2294 27,258
Jan., 1915 .. 3612 360 8„ „ 2294 28,936
July, 1915 . . 3400 139 10 „ ~ 2868 29,607
Jan., 1916 . . 3622 lO „ „ 2868 30,361
July, 1916 . . 3268 360 10 „ „ 2868 31,121
Jan., 1917 . . 3304 lO „ ~ 2868 31,55?
July, 1917 . . 3289 lO ~ ~ 2868 31,978
Jan., 1918 .. 3317 lO „ ~ 2868 32,427
July, 1918 . . 3343 ll „ „ 3155 32,615
Jan., 1919 . . 3393 262 11 „ „ 3155 33,115
July, 1919 .. 3583 ll „,. 3155 33,543
This co. was vacuum-cleaned in 1900 and
started life afresh with its old boom-time
debris written down to what the manage-
ment then considered fair value. Just after
the clean-up foreclosures stood in the
balance-sheet at £72,305, but when the
•opportunities to unload arrived the manage-
ment did better than it anticipated. To
date it has gathered in £18,743 in excess of
the book values of properties sold; but as
only £3735 of foreclosures now remain, very
little further will be made in this way—-
from old properties, at any rate. Having
gradually got rid of its boom troubles, the
management has been able to build up its
business again. This shows how the co.’s
position ha 3 changed :
July,’ol. July,’l4. Jan.,’lß. July,’l9.
Liabilities ..£37,015 £45,823 £31,242 £31,668
Advances . . 19,998 121,991 114,668 118,885
Foreclosures .. 72,305 10,576 3,693 3,735
Cash, etc. .. 2,778 165 5,738 5,259
During the war years the management
looked at new advances with a cautious eye,
but when prospects began to brighten it
opened its pockets a little wider. But
though there is now £3OOO less out on mort-
gage than five years ago, dearer money has
helped earnings—interest on loans brought
in £5405 during the past half, compared
with £4970 for the similar half of 1914.
Creditors are well protected nowadays:
there are £122,620 of mortgages and pro-
perties to meet the £26,409 of liabilities nof
' covered by cash assets. And if everything
on the books is worth the full value shown,
there are net assets of 335. 6d. to represent
each £1 of shareholders’ capital.
* * * *
The Melbourne Hydraulic Power Cos.:
Reserves
Added (including
_ to Re- Sinking
June, Profits. Dividends. serves. Fund).
1909.. £9,666 8 p.c. = £6,300 £3366 £12,915
1910.. 10,193 8 „ „ 6,300 3893 16.808
1911.. 8,739 8 „ „ 6,300 2439 19,247
1912.. 10,405 8 „ „ 6,300 4105 23,352
1913.. 11,724 8 „ „ 6,300 5424 28.776
Further £26,250 of capital returned .. 2,526
1914.. 12,363 8 p.c. = 5,250 7113 9,639
1915.. 10,427 8 „ „ 4,200 6227 15,866
Net Profits.
1916.. 5,869 204 „ „ 10,762 10,973
1917.. 6,752 8 „,, 4,200 2552 13,525
1918.. 8,738 8 ~ ~ 4,200 4538 18,063
1919.. 11,454 8 „,, 4,200 7254 25,317
The Melbourne Hydraulic started in 1886,
its rights expire on the - last day of
19«4, the works passing to the municipal
authorities. Besides paying divs. the co.
has thus had to provide for a return of capi-
tal, which was originally £105,000 in £1
shares. In 1907 ss. per share was returned,
a further ss. in 1914, while Is. 3d. was
i tacked on to the 1916 dividend. Now the
directors announce a further distribution of
ss. (£26,250) early in the New Year. This
shows the liquid position at June 30 and
the progress which has been made since the
1914 return of capital:—
1914. 1919.
Liquid assets . . . . £7759 £23,270
Liabilities . . . . 3593 2,731
Surplus assets .. £4166 £20,539
So, besides paying a regular 8 p.c. dividend
and one bonus of 12i p.c. on £52,500 of capi-
tal, the co. has been able to pile up £16.373
of surplus liquid assets in five years. When
the latest ss. has been distributed, all but
3s. 9d. of the original £1 shares will have been
returned, and the directors consider that “the
prospects are favorable” for repaying this
balance. Paid capital will then stand at
£26,250. but since £6562 was returned with
the 1916 dividend, there will remain only
£19,688 to be made good. During the five years
still to go an 8 p.c. p.a. dividend on the
reduced capital would call for £10,500 alto-
gether. So to pay divs. and return the
balance of capital the co. will have to
make about £6OOO per annum net, unless
there happens to be something in a stocking
which is not visible.
* * * *
The Queensland Government has spent
£IB,OOO on an arsenic plant in the Stanthorpe
district. It is only a Government which
has money to burn that would spend so
much money on such a plant—Private Enter-
prise would have erected an outfit of equal
capacity at about half that cost. Still it
is satisfactory to be told that if the product
were sold at the present price of £63 per
ton the capital cost of the plant would soon
be covered. It is not intended, however, to
keep up this price, but to sell the arsenic at
about £4O per ton, so as to encourage its
widespread use for the eradication of prickly-
pear and other noxious vegetation. These
works ought to give a fillip to lode tin-
mining in the district. Most of the ore is
highly charged with arsenic, and the vola-
tilisation of this will leave a high-grade tin
concentrate. Havinv acquired the Irvinebank
tin treatment works in the North to ensure
that the miners there may have a local market
for their product, the Government might do
worse than combine tin treatment with
arsenic production.
South Aus., which has never yet found a
big goldfield, keeps pegging away at the
small shows it has. There are State bat-
teries or cyanide-works at Tarcoola, Glen-
loth, Peterborough and Mount Torrens.
They treat small parcels of ore. often with
good results, but it is picked stuff. There is
admittedly gold almost all over the Adelaide
hills, and from all over the State reports
come in of prospecting.


4R
maam
•'
Pi.
TM
m
m
>/i/
■©
m
LSi
m
m
If
vm
m
m
1
m
ri
1
im
i:'-'
m,
fm
m
m
IS
■
MS
m
SwSSSS
rfw
tSss2?!sr~
iSiMsSS
SKMt:
■rr 7 r
r-rJ . <
£SSS
<y\ ... '
ti-.V
m
'--■’.Ov •
V
h-- 'r^T'-
S
&
m
%
m
mi
\ •:•.•
v-
-8E
:.• 'V
s* ; *
■
*Uir*
m
m
m
The Beale Player-Piano
excels in Tone-Control
Every tone-nuance, from full double forte to faintly-sounded
pianissimo, can be expressed on the “Beale” Player Piano.
It is this wonderful tone control which permits of exquisite,
personal rendering of each composition played. All the
fire and sparkle are fully revealed awakening the mind
to beauties which would lie hidden forever under a fumb-
ling hand-technique.
Insist on a Player-Piano "with perfect tone-control, and you
will inevitably choose a “Beale.”
INFORMAL CONCERTS HELD DAILY
ASK TO HEAR A FAVORITE PIECE
Head Office 6t Showroom* f
333 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY
Tseccle
& C" LTP
Factory!
41-47 TRAFALGAR ST.
ANNANDALE
Branches at Bathurst, Orange, Lismore, Newcastle, Goulburn, Wagga. VICTORIA: Maples, in all
Melbourne suburbs. TASMANIA: Williams Bros., Hobart; Maples, Launceston. SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
John Evans Ltd., Adelaide. QUEENSLAND: 90-92 Queen Street, Brisbane; Kent Street, Maryborough;
Flinders Street, Townsville ; Rockhampton; Sydney Street, Mackay ; Cairns. WEST AUSTRALIA :J. A.
Thomson Co. Ltd., 209 Murray Street, Perth.


Hose of Luxite
Nobody can have better
Hose than Luxite—manu-
factured from the softest,
longest fibres and strong-
est yarn obtainable. Its
serviceability is a cer-
tainty.
Insist on having this
brand. Our enormous pro-
duction saves expense in
many ways, hence “ Lux-
ite ” prices are always
low. The soft, full-bodied
shimmer of Luxite Hose
is acquired.
If your dealer is unable
to supply you, write us.
Indents and Wholesale thru
WALTER CATHRO PTY. LTD.
50 York Street :: SYDNEY.
H. G. HARMER, L.R.1.8.A., C.E.,
ESTABLISHED 1907,
having taken into partnership
A. C. LAVINGTON,
will henceforth practise as
HARMER & LAVINGTON,
ARCHITECTS
and
CONSULTING CIVIL ENGINEERS.
SPECIALISTS IN REINFORCED CONCRETE,
TIMBER AND STEEL STRUCTURES.
SILOS, WOOLSIIEDS, TANKS, FACTORIES
AND HOMESTEADS.
Country work a Specialty.
’Phone: City 50. Box 468 G.P.O.
52 WAR LOAN CHAMBERS,
114 a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
INFLUENZA
Used In the Melbourne Hospitals
Brooke’s “Lemos”
The Purest Lemon Squash.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE g HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL. £500,000.
{effected on all classes of
■ Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture. &c. Rents also assured.
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
BARTIN HAIGH, General Manager.
MHMH]
For Bad Breath
Those who find their
breath bad in the morning; a
bad taste in the mouth and a
furred tongue, will find Pink-
ettes—the new laxative—
an excellent remedy. They
correct the stomach condi-
tions which cause symptoms;
regulate the liver and remove
constipation. Pinkettes act
without causing sickness or
griping, or after effects of
strong purgatives.
1/- per bottle at all dealers.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “The Bulletin.*
The Dr. Mams’ Medicine Co.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
PLUME BENZINE
does no/' vary
MAKE a note of that, Sir! ‘‘Plume” is the same
pure, clean, powerful spirit the year round —
on the hottest day or the coldest night. “Plume”
is as unvarying as the Sphinix, each gallon being of uni-
form quality throughout, and reaching you in the same
pure, dependable form as it leaves our Refinery.
Many Motorists praise its “kick,” appreciating the
extra mileage it gives.
So, when next you are going to fill, turn in at a “Plume”
sign. All garages sell “Plume.”
Vacuum Oil Co. Pty. Ltd.
P.R. 3.
-XT'— r.
..
W
X
in
•*
Unvariable!
A CONTRACT IS A CONTRACT
CHEMICALS.
OUR business is primarily that of exporting American
chemicals —heavy and fine pharmaceutical products and dyes.
We are manufacturers of caustic soda, soda ash. chloride of
lime, carbon tetrachloride, bichromate of soda, epsom salts,
permanganate of potash and carbon bisulphide.
Pharmaceuticals, fine chemicals and drugs—standardised and
repacked in retail containers at our own plant.
Dyes—Our Pyramid Aniline Colors represent quality, not
cheapness.
Importers of raw materials for American industries, oils, foodstuffs, etc.
BUSH, BEACH & GENT, Inc.,
80 Maiden Lane, Holbrook Building,
New York, U.S.A. San Francisco.
Cable Address (Both Offices) “Beachfred."
BUSH, BEACH a GENT me.
New York -Ban Francisco, U.SA.
m- -TXo ©Jo
@ol
o o£
SEtai
SE
3:
OISTIUgD IN A«ST»AI*Aj|S
DRY GIN
THE FINEST SPIRIT
.IN AUSTRALIAN
HISTORY
Always Look For
Cook"
Like most previous Vic. Rhodes scholars
the latest selection, Kenneth Hamilton
Bailey, son of an officer of the Commercial
Bank in Melbourne, began his studies in a
State school. He worked his way into Wes-
ley College by winning a Government
scholarship ; and with a State senior scholar-
ship he earned the right to a University
course, which he suspended to go to the
war. He served with the 105th Howitzer
Battery in France.
In Sept., 1873, when he was 17, Alfred
Deakin sought the job of Vic. Treasury
clerk, and wrote a letter to Symonds, the
then permanent head. Shortly afterwards
he cancelled his application, intimating that
he had secured other employment. Aus-
tralian history might have been written a
little differently, perhaps, if he had got a
Treasury post—though, certainly, he might
have thrown up the job as George Reid did,
to enter politics.
When Deakin visited England with King-
ston and Barton to watch the progress of
the Commonwealth Constitution Bill through
the British Parliament in 1900, Chamber-
lain finieked over Clause 74, relating to
appeals to the Privy Council. Tiring of
it at length, Deakin said that it might become
necessary to appeal over the heads of Min
isters to the people. Barton, Kingston and
Deakin had already established themselves
in public favor, and Chamberlain knew there
was a pretty strong demand to give Aus-
tralia what it desired. The timely threat
told. A little more of that kind of firm-
ness, and Deakin’s score of things achieved
would have looked better.
“1921”: Allenby, the great little soldier,
commanded respect, notwithstanding his
abuse of the A.L.H. and Enzods. Like
Napoleon and Stonewall Jackson, Allenby
liked to see for himself, nor did he avoid
danger and discomfort in order to do so.
On his visits to the Jordan Valley he took
the roads as he found them ; his car picked
its way among the traffic, and he swallowed
the polluted dust of ages just as we had to
do. When another much boomed general, whose
headquarters were 1000 ft. up on the hills,
deigned to visit our malaria-infested hell, w<
all knew lie was coming. All traffic, how-
ever important, was stopped, every inch of
the road being watched by Indian lancers
and a varied assortment of soldiery, and he
always tore down in the daylight and whirled
back before dusk and the mosquitoes arrived.
A physician throws light on a prevailing
topic
Loss of memory in all functional nerve maladies
is not, strictly speaking, a loss at all, since memory
is not destroyed except in gross disease of the brain.
The patient is unable to raise memories from the
depths of the subconscious above the threshold of
the conscious. In gross disease of the brain, mem-
ory for recent events is first destroyed, the older and
more stable imprints being gradually annihilated.
Apart from disease, poor memory for recent happen-
ings occurs in senility, and perhaps inattention to
their immediate surroundings, so frequently seen in
old people, has a lot to do with this lapse. Some
of the loss of memory complained of by hysterical
patients has also, no doubt, an origin in the in-
attention they display to what is passing in their
immediate vicinity. If one were to read about a
witness who was over 70 making mistakes relating
to a business deal of some months previous, no sur-
prise would be felt, but the inaccuracy of his mem-
ory would be put down to senile changes. The same
thing occurring in a young or middle-aged man would
arouse suspicions, and would call for a medical
examination.
Several puzzling cases have occurred lately in
Sydney, and a few weeks back a rare case of dual
personality, which is also a psycho-neurosis, hap-
pened. A well-known man mysteriously disappeared.
Later on, he managed to find his house and asked
if a Mr. Blank lived there. Blank was the name
he had assumed, and he had forgotten all about his
real name. Another man, who had in his possession
materials that might be used for forging Common-
wealth bank notes, made a brief appearance as a
person of doubtful sanity. When brought up for
trial, he assumed a vacant look as if he did not
understand the proceedings. Examination showed
that he was perfectly sane, and his trial was pro-
ceeded with. Georgeson, whose evidence in the
Wheat inquiry was of the first importance, presented
quite a different train of symptoms, and extended
observation will be necessary to determine whether
the morbid anxiety and mental depression from which
he is suffering had its origin in a diseased condition
of the cerebral cortex, or is purely functional, and
induced by the worry of an impending inquiry.
His reported state of health would cause doctors to
think of neurasthenia, hysteria, and the far more
serious condition, psychasthenia. The medical re-
port says that he is suffering from blunting of the
memory for recent events, which would be common
to all three affections ; but it also mentions that he
is in a state of morbid anxiety, is unable to
appreciate what happened to him, and is afraid of
some impending trouble. It is this last symptom
that lends color to the psychasthenia theory, since
in uncomplicated hysteria the patient doesn’t worry
about the condition at all, is perfectly selfish, gives
as much trouble as possible, and will tell you with
a smile that he or she has suffered the greatest
agony.
In hysteria hypnotism may be beneficial. While
the patient is in the hypnotic state, pleasant ideas
may be suggested instead of the painful ones, and a
way opened by this means for a lasting cure. In
psychasthenia, unfortunately, the victim is generally
aware of the cause of some of his symptoms, and
he does not' prove a good subject for any form of
psychotherapy. If it prove true that Georgeson has
developed this highly serious functional nerve malady,
then it is not likely that he will be able to give
evidence before the Commission in four weeks’ time.
Of course, the patient will have the benefit of special
attention in a private hospital, which will probably
consist in isolation from the attentions of friends
and relations, complete rest, careful nursing, drug-
ging, proper diet and some form of psychotherapy ;
but such diseases take a long time to cure.
MAN’S PUZZLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
On trams and trains you come and go,
Reminding me of So-and-so.
Your lifted eyes, or lids discreet,
The petticoat above your feet
Recall some incidents afar —
Dear girl, I wonder who you are?
N.s.w.
BILLY B.


< »
rN
/
/'
w-
<°ls
~7_
tnt-''* "<'<')
''UIYYs.
■•;' ' , .A" )//«.,
,#'|P' jk.jA , ~;J~ ,
II * 1
<8 y, l «. sW'WS?^)
f/#,//,■ Ifran wQO?/ 4lrm. , ,i:‘i , t v. r-
-4 <** ''j
\{Y.m
A ‘
r;j
% l ,/ /
I*(W4
r;
ri
N
Y'HVI
//
//OT
4</»
§,//#
/ y
-///
I yf/*
>/<
•niirf
<i /i
1
*
Lj
tv
J
ViW
44
y
///(I
>;vv
<w
.: V ,
iHiM
It VM
• V. /a
4/. /////
m
8/
*‘V
<TO ;
•A*
XSTJ/SJ
%YtHl A- ~
/"
i :7r K
h: ...
k»
•. r.w*
Hi
3*
r vN^
/
y
0*
l/
S' ‘
J
,J
ivy^ i
A
*<'<*%■' V/.
&
a
Or
>
Mil
//ii
/! yW
tf. ifcsr
A RESERVOIR OF
ABUNDANT POWER:
'g'lie Eng ine of the Studebaker
Car is distinguished by a
wonderful responsiveness that
is an abiding delight.
Here is a reservoir of abundant power
—practically limited only by the will
of the user—wakened to instant throbb-
ing life by the merest touch. For the
labored pull through sand and mud—
for the searching tax of the long, steep
hills—for the tight corner amid the
congestion of street traffic, when instant
action is vital— you need power; plenty
of power; all the abundance of power
yielded by the Studebaker engine.
Although the most powerful engine in
the world in ratio to its weight and
fuel consumption, this tamed giant
will exert its strength with flexible
vibrationless motion. No straining,
no rough jarring. Cradled on its long,
underslung springs, the powerful Stude-
baker Car yields a luxury of move-
ment that spells economy and insures
its own long life.
STUDEBAKER SPECIAL FEATURES
The famous Silent L Head Engine; the newly-designed
Gear Box, swung on a suh-Chassis amidships; the
Double Thermoid Coupling Forward; the Hotchkiss
Drive; the Silent Spiral Bevel Differential; Scientific
Weight D istribution and Spring Suspension; Magneto
Ignition; Leather-trimmed Khaki Hoods; Goodyear
Tyres throughout, and Complete Equipment.
ft*
//. ‘JjdnJj/.
Vi.
HEAD OFFICE FOR AUSTP ALASIA
177 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY
Branches and Agencies in all
capital cities.
The Studebaker Engine
This is the type of engine
that is used exclusively on
the best European cars.
Every part is readily access-
ible.
The extra large crankshaft
bearings secure a freedom
from vibration at high
engine speeds that is re-
markable. This feature i 3
still further emphasised by
the big connecting-rod bear-
ings.
Ihe Dixie High Tension
Magneto is a trouble-elim-
inating factor. The Lighting
Generator is vertical in
position; has a positive
worm-drive, and can be
inspected simply by re-
moving the pressed steel
cover.
The Starting Motor has a
never - failing chain and
sprocket, direct to the
crankshaft. The removal
of a screw and pin de-
taches this unit entirely, A
“junction box,” for all wir-
ing and containing all fuses,
is immediately accessible.


Cuticura Healed Two
Children of Burning
Itching Rash
“My two children aged four and two
years were affected with a burning,
~--v
m
itching rash which
first made its ap-
pearance by large
red spots coming
out and in a few
days the whole of
their bodies, faces
and heads were
affected. They used to scratch them-
selves and caused eruptions and a
nasty disfigurement. The skin was
red and inflamed and the irritation was
so bad they could not sleep.
“At last I was recommended to use
Cuticura Soap and Ointment and sent
for a sample. I bought more and in a
short time relief came, the itching ceased
and now the children are free from the
rash.” (Signed) Mrs. J. M. Thrush,
Te Tawa, Inglewood, N. Z.
For hair and skin health Cuticura
Soap and Ointment are supreme.
Soap to cleanseand Ointment to heal.
“R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
Sold by dealers throughout the world.
If
Want a New
r
Acetylene
Gas
Generator
for Lighting or
Oxy-Welding
go to BRANDT’S,
l who supply them
from 10 to 200
Light.
We send Mechanics to overhaul old Installa-
tions or instal new ones.
Send for Latest Booklet on Acetylene
Lighting.
Best Swedish Carbide now in
Stock—all Granulations.
WRITE FOR QUOTATIONS.
BRANDT BROS. LTD.,
Acetylene and Air-Gas Engineers,
236 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And 338 Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
87 H piHsT"sydney
PfOVidCfttSOCkty
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Although over £750,000 was paid dur-
ing 1918 in War Claims alone, the
Cash Bonus Distributed for 1918
exceeded.. .. .. .. .. £1,000,000
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. .. £1,700,000
Accumulated Funds exceed .. ..£39,000,000
Annual Income over .. .. .. £5,500,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPEKLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell 8 Co. Ltd.
if youhave any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office—
44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
gd
kA.
fgd
A SAFEGUARD for All Linen.
Any Garment dr Article is pro-
tected and indi vidualised WHEN
MARKED WITH
fg
mm
AMES
Eclipses Markii lg-ink f or Con-
venience and Si itisf&c'tio.n. Any
Name woven inf to a fine Cambric
Tape in Fast 0 olor. Easily sewn
on. Insist on having CASH’S
THE BEST.
Prices: 12 doz. 4/6, 6 doz. S/3, 3 drz. 2/3.
Sold by all Best Drapers.
MADE IN i USTRAXIA BY
J.&IJ, Caslh Pt;vr., Ltd.,
85 Cubitt Strei 3t, Richn lend, VIC.
Write Jot ■ Style l took.
m
r
m.
m
is
H
sai
1 ;
ft
m
' ,
L'\ ■
m
i .
CROUCH
JTTBE Eai
FOR EXPORT.
Unfinished Steel
Structural Steel
Plates
Steel Rails
Concrete Reinforc-
ing Steel
Cold Rolled and
Cold Drawn Steel
Wire Rods, Wire
and Wire Pro-
ducts
Sheet Mill Pro-
ducts
Tin Plate and
Terne Plate
Pipe Products
Boiler Tubes
Tool Steel
Bar Iron
Pig Iron.
We Can Make Immediate Shipment
from the East Coast and
from the West Coast,
either from our own warehouses at
Staten Island, New York, or from our
branch house in San Francisco.
Write for our monthly magazine,
and our Stockbook SB7, giving a list
of quantities on hand.
Cable Address: “Ardeencee,” New York.
Codes used: ABC sth Edition, Western
Union, Lieber’s, and Bentley’s.
Rownson, Drew & Clydesdale, Inc.
68 William Street, New York, U.S.A.
%
■
di
safe
of
m
W
m
&
.YALE-
One Y ale Padlock was Enough
QOUND principles of design
and construction insure the
security of Yale padlocks—
against violence, picking and
accidental interchange of keys.
They are made in sizes and styles for
every padlocking purpose each style
possessing qualities peculiar to itself.
The Yale Standard padlock, for in-
stance, does not deteriorate in tropical
climates and withstands the roughest
treatment. 11 is a strong, sturdy, mechan-
ism that has no master save its own key.
You can place implicit confidence in
Yale padlocks and in every Yale pro-
duct—Y ale Night Latches, Door Closers,
Builders’Hardware, Chain Blocks and
Bank Locks.
Look for the trade-mark on the product
Obtainable from all Good Dealers
The Yale & Towne Mfg. Co.
Eetabliehed 1868
New York
U. S. A.
.YALE.
TRIPLEX BLOCKS
dfg
Special features: —
1 — Hoists twice as fast as a screw-geared block.
2 Continuous Hand Chain permitting rapid lowering.
3 Rated on long ton(224olb.)and tested to 50% overload(336olb.).
4 Can be fitted to any length of lift.
5 Spare parts available.
6 Hand and Electric Blocks available from stock.
FRANK R. PERROT, Sole Australian Agent
334 Kent Street, Sydney; 883 Hay Street, Perth.
L. BANNISTER, 39 Queen Street, Melbourne.
EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., 121 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
For our sick and wounded
BOYS. —When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Red Cross Book
Depot, Wynyard Street, Sydney.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
“0.K.” : One of the most reasonable of
racing “systems” for the past 13 years has been to
back the second and third horses in the Metropolitan
for a win and place in the two Cups. In seven years
out of eight the actual winners of Caulfield or
Melbourne Cups had been placed for the A.J.C. event,
via., Poseidon, Apologue, Maranui, Flavinius, Lady
Medallist, Piastre and Aurifer. Since then the aver-
age has been not so striking; nevertheless, West-
court and Lingle ran first and second for Melbourne
Cup after finishing second and third for the Metro-
politan. Last year it happened that the actual
winner of the 14-mile race at Randwick was the
runner-up in the long race at Flemington. One
turns naturally to the records of Kenilford and
Amazonia to see whether they look likely for the
Cups. Oddly enough, neither of them was entered
for the Caulfield, but both are listed for the Mel-
bourne Cup, and are let in at less than 7st. Kenil-
ford, the more attractive of the pair, would be
better worth backing had he given convincing evi-
dence of stamina when tackled by Rebus. But he
was worn down in the last 100 yards by a nag that
was giving him 341 b. The figures are not encourag-
ing to punters who waited for the Metrop. to offer
them a tip for the Cup. Granting that Rebus is
a great horse, and that the lightweight had some bad
luck early in the race, it must be admitted Kenil-
ford got every chance to beat the topweight at a
difference of 341 b. in the last 100 yards—and
couldn’t!. Apparently he is no great shakes as a
stayer, and if the grit is not in him 61b. off his
back in the Melbourne Cup will hardly make it a
sure thing for him. When Night Watch won
the Cup it wasn’t solely on account of the 331 b.
difference in the weights when he came to fight out
the finish with Kennaquhair. Stamina counted.
Night Watch outstayed the 9st. gee, and was sub-
sequently able to run second for the Sydney Cup with
the respectable burden of Bst. 21b. on his back.
Thus far there is no evidence of Kenilford being
another Night Watch. He isn’t as formidable on paper
as Ard-Na-Ree, who has the Caulfield Cup engage-
ment to dispose of ere he gets to the Flemington job.
“8.T.”: At Caulfield the other Saturday
the favorites came home with such damnable itera-
tion that at length one bookmaker broke loose, and
falling on his devoted clerk, pounded the wretched
youth, winding up with a kick that sent the victim
whirling. The clerk arose, bruised and battered.
“’Ell, Ned, I wouldn’t stand for that!” said one
of the push. “Get to the cow.” The smitten clerk
wiped the gore and dust from his face, and said in
answer to the evil prompter, “Arr, get out, ’ave a
bit o’ ’eart. That was the fifth favorite that come
home!” And he resumed his duties.
“Ex-Englishman”: Brought up on Rugby
football, and living now where it is unknown, I find
the nearest approach to it in—you would never
guess—the fowl-yard. Drop into the scrum a shell-
snail, too large to be swallowed at once, and the
dodging—backwards, forwards, sideways, with head
down and a frenzied grip—is quite like old times.
So is the relentless activity of the opposing crowd.
Of course there is no attempt at passing ; but, allow-
ing for that weakness, a young hen can put up a
delightful imitation of a brilliant, selfish half-back.
10 there ever was any justification for E.
A. Connolly’s belief in Toison d’Or, he has done wisely
by professing to acknowledge his mistake and
scratching the animal for Cup engagements. Pro-
bably Toison is as poor as Sydney failures indi-
cate, though the fact that E.A.C. laid stress on
the excellent condition of his nag is not incon-
sistent with the idea that he suspected Toison of
being overdone, or otherwise out of sorts. When
a wily trainer makes a point of declaring that his
well-beloved representative was beaten on his merits,
you can bet that he doesn’t think so, though the
chances are he ought to think so. When a jockey
states after the race that he got the best' of runs, but his
mount proved a sad disappointment, you may almost
swear that the little man is a —well, diplomatist.
Eddie McGoorty seems to be going rapidly
down hill. In Paris last week he engaged De Balzac. The
French middle was in Australia in 1913, and put
up some miserable exhibitions —as did most of his
confreres that year. Dave Smith outed Balzac in
three rounds at a time when McGoorty could have
outed Smith in a round or less. In Paris McGoorty
lost to the Frenchman by hitting him low in the
9th round. In all the 14 years that he has been
fighting he had only lost once on a foul up to last
Saturday. It was against his friend Jimmy Clabby
in July, 1914, and was a perfectly understandable
affair. McGoorty is evidently qualifying as a Prohi-
bitionist exemplar.
* * * *
Gordon Coghill, of Sydney, has been matched
with Fulton, the American who is now in London in
pursuit of championship honors. It reads like pre-
meditated massacre, with the A.I.F. man as the vic-
tim. Coghill is a good deal older than he was when
he won the amateur championship of N. S. Wales
against a second-rate field. He was not a success
subsequently as a pro. Since those days he has had
a trying spr'l of active service in the infantry, and
he has been wounded. Fulton is a giant, and in
the first flush of youth. It is true he was outed in
sudden fashion by Jack Dempsey. But his record
otherwise is excellent. He claims that Dempsey got
him unawares by a stroke of luck and that the
calamity will never be repeated.
English golf professionals are urging that
something should be done to put a check on in-
ventors who persistently “improve” the ball. It
seems at first sight absurd to object; but the exist-
ing links have been laid out, at great cost, to help
the good drive and get the poor one into trouble.
With the modern ball, anybody can drive as far as
a champion of a few years back ; and the really fine
driver now finds himself in the bunkers that were
made to trap a bad second shot. It is a plain fact
that the best of them have to use a different club,
or in some way restrain themselves from doing
their best. The position is something like that in
cycling about 25 years ago, when the increased pace
made the old flat tracks unsafe, and they had to
be remade, with banks, regardless of expense. The
simpler remedy suggested by golfers is to have one
standard ball, as in other games, and make every-
body use it. Probably it would be the best ball
in use a few years back. At present, apparently,
any player can use anything, from a marble to a
football, that takes his fancy. It would be odd
if the same idea held good at cricket or tennis.
“Narrung”: Some years ago, before the
Federal Government collared its useful 10 p.c. of
Tattersall’s prizes, a well-known resident of a west-
ern Sydney suburb, and an earnest member of a local
church committee, won first prize in the Special,
drawn on the day of Melbourne Cup—£sooo. Leav-
ing nothing to chance, he went to Hobart to collect.
It was a custom then for winners of big prizes to
treat the office staff of Tatt.’s with some generosity.
But this time when the money was paid over the
collector started to leave. “Would you care for a
cup of tea ?” mildly asked the most scornful member
of the staff. “Thanks, lam a little fatigued,” grate-
fully answered the visitor.
* * * *
London Spectator has dug up and verified
the story of W. G. Grace and the evening hymn. It
happened at Marlborough School in 1869, Grace play-
ing for a Bath club. He had made a bet that he
would score a century, and incidentally hit a ball
out of the ground; but he was bowled by a fast
shooter on the off-stump by J. A. Kempe for abouf
seven. It was a two-day match, and the visitors,
attending evening chapel, took part in the familiar
hymn telling of “the scanty triumphs Grace hath
won.” The choir-master vouches for the incident,
and also that he fixed on the hymn by pure chance.
Grace got square the next day, hitting his first ball
in the second innings over the pavilion, and making
65 not out.
(Continued on page 38.)


Give an added charm to holidays
KODAK
Your next holiday will yield you scores
of splendid snapshots of lifelong interest
—if you take a Kodak.
And when you visit the races, go
motoring or boating, or attend any
sports or pleasure parties —your Kodak
will be the means of a better enjoyment
at the time —and afterwards.
With the 3a Autographic Kodak you can make excellent
post-card pictures— s-2 x 3 -4- inches. This is the most popular
camera in the world. Price, £6/2/6.
Whether you own a larger camera or not, you will find
the splendid little Vest Pocket Autographic Kodak easy to carry
when it may be inconvenient to take a larger camera. For
pictures 2-|- x If inches—readily enlarged. Price 40/-
The No. la Autographic Kodak Junior —pictures 2f x 4£
inches. Price 70/-. Others up to £l4/17/6.
Of all Kodak dealers, and
U
i
I 1
. .
WSM
mm
€
*' wMm meL
* ;*gi\
mmm
: \V; :r>
pi* sjp 2g|j|§|
r .v . I
•r.i
A . ■ f
ignafar ; w w* • i
-,' -•■ f'l'
* m
/
K
A
BfiH I
'U *
■ ■ '
A <
*!
v;
V i
£
i®
HHHH
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.,
Incorporating Baker & Rouse Prop, l-td.,
379 George St., Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins St., Melbourne.
250-253 Queen St., Brisbane. The Valley. 37 Bundle St., Adelaide. 45 Elizabeth St., Hobart.
Ruthven St., Toowoomba. Flinders St., Townsville. Denham St.. Rockhampton. Optical
and Photo Supplies Co., Perth. 109-111 Dixon St., Wellington, N.Z. (Wholesale); ‘ The Kodak
Corner,” corner Quay and Willis St., Wellington, N.Z. (Retail). 3 Lome St., Auckland,
N.Z. (Wholesale). 148 Richfield St., Christchurch, N.Z. (Wholesale).
PADEREWSKI.
JOHN McCORMACK writes:
“I believe that the process by which
‘His Master’s Voice’ records are made is
the most perfect of all methods of voice
reproduction.”
By the“ Stars
Appraised!
Caruso, Melba, McCormack,
Kirkby Lunn (Stars who sing
only for “His Master’s Voice”)
would never testify to the merits
of anything that was not really
EXCELLENT in music. Read
here what they say about
KIRKBY LTJNN writes:—
“I look upon your records as vocal
mirrors, so perfect is the reproduction
of the human voice.”
“His Master's Voice
CARUSO writes:
“I am indeed satisfied with my
new records. They are magnifi-
cent., and I congratulate you.”
Celebrity Records.
LOOK FOR THE DOG TRADE-MARK—the symbol of Supremacy.
Complete record list, instrument catalogue and
of nearest accredited dealer on request.
name
THE. GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD
• *
" GRAMOPHONE”
Head. Trc le-marh.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“His Master’s Voice”
Regd. Trade-mark.
DAME MELBA writes:—
“I wish you to know that I am
more than delighted with my
new records. They are wonder-
ful. I congratulate you.”
J-W
HIS MASTERS VOICE".


A. Saunders’ fine double-cut Diamond Bar Brooch,
loct. Gold, £3,
A. Saunders’ loct. Gold Bar Brooch, set Pearl,
£2.
m
\
-
- ■
m
m
.
&ZB&1
SXK
S&S&i;
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Silver Hunting Lever, extra-
quality movement, £3, £3/10/-, £4/10/-,
£5, £6, £7/10/-
Solid Gold, £lO, £l2/10/-, £l5, £2O.
Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’ Oct. Gold Bar Brooch, set Pearls
and Red Stones, 12/6.
A. Saunders’ 9et. Gold Cricket
Medal, 27/6.
15et. Gold, £2/15/-
A. Saunders’ Dia-
mond and Pearl
set Rin<r, 18ct.
Gold, £2/15/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Links, daintily engraved,
20/-
15ct. Gold, £2.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
mond Ring, ISct.
Gold, £B/10/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
mond Cluster king,
I Set. Gold,
£7/10/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
mond Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £lO.
A. Saunders’ 9et.
Gold Circle Brooch,
set Pearls and
Garnet, 10/G.
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s
15ct. Gold Ring,
set Red Stone.
£2/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Necklet, set Pearls and
Aquamarines or Rubies,
£3/10/-
A. Saunders' Lady’s 9ct. Gold Hunting
Keyless Lever Watch, adjusted balance,
£3/10/-. Extra jewelled, £4,
£4/10/-, £5, £6, £7/10/-, £lO.
Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding Watch
Wristlet, full-jewelled lever movement, compensation
balance, £5/10/-
Others, £4/10/-, £O/10/-, £7/10/-, £B/10/-,
£lO/10/-, £l2/10/-. Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’ 9ct.
Gold Links,
daintilv engraved,
13/6.
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, £lO,
£l2/10/-, £l5.
A. Saunders’ Dia-
mond Cluster Ring,
18ct. Gold, £5.
A. Saunders’ 5-
Diamond, Half-
hoop Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £5/10/-
A. Saunders’ Dia-
mond and Pearl
Circle Brooch, 15ct.
Gold, £3.
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s
Oct. Gold Signet
King, 20/«
lf>ct. Gold, £2.
18ct. Gold,
£2/10/-
A. Saunders’ fine double-cut Diamond Bar
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £3.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Brooch, set Pearls
and Red Stones, 22/6.
t 3
I
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s high-grade Nickel Lever,
25/-, 30/-. Extra jewelled, 35/-, 40/-,
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Bar Brooch, set Pearls
and Aquamarines, 20/-
A. Saunders’ fine
double-cut Dia-
mond Bing, ISct.
Cold, £5/10/-
• • •-
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller, 805-815 George Street
/OPP. RAILWAY)
v STATION '•
Sydney,
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Music Medal, 25/-
15ct. Gold, £2/10/-
TARANTULLE
REGD.
THE QUALITY COTTON FABRIC FOR HOME - SEWN LINGERIE AND BABY - WEAR
All genuine Tarantulle
is name - stamped on
the selvedge. Buy
none without.
r
tri
7/////A
TOOTAL
GUARANTEED
COTTON
~v?
TTHIS world-famed fabric will save you all the usual laundry
* disappointments. It is a beautiful weave of the finest cotton
the world produces, and is perfectly free from filling. While
it is luxuriously fine, soft, pure, and snowy white, it defies the
hardest wear and washing.
Dont be satisfied with an inferior fabric for the sake of a few
pence when buying. Whether you desire simple or elaborate
underwear make it out of Tarantulle, and you can rely on
lasting daintiness and charm.
40 inches wide, in Three Weights —Standard 2/3, Fine 2/6,
and Superfine 2/9 per yard. Name on Selveage
OTHER TOOTAL GUARANTEED FABRICS
Each carries name on selvedge
TOBRALCO (Regd.): The Cotton Wash Dress Fabric in world wide
use. 27/28 inches wide. Self-white and indelible color?.
2/6 per yard.
TOOTAL PlQUE—Double width. 43/44 inches wide Superior, soft
and subtle, specially strengthened between ribs. White and
indelible colors, 5/6 per yard.
TOOTAL SHIRTING for ladies’ and children), wear 32 inches
wide. Woven indelible color stripes. TOOTAL SHIRTj
FOR MEN, made of Tootal Shirting:
NAMRIT—The Indelible Voile. Double width, 40 inches wide
White and indelible colors, 3/6 per yard.
TOOTAL CLOTH—The Guaranteed Velvet Fabric. Plain and cord.
27 inches wide. also
PYRAMID HANDKERCHIEFS (Regd.) for Men. Correct self-white
and exclusive color-border designs. Pyramid label on each.
I /4i each.
LISSUE HANDKERCHIEFS (Regd.) 'for Ladies. Exquisite self-white
and indelible color border designs. Lissue label on each.
1/- each.
TO BE HAD OF ALL STORES
TOOTAL
ALL
BROADHURST LEE COMPANY LTD.,
COMMUNICATIONS TO G.P.O. BOX
MANCHESTER, ENGLAND
1035 MELBOURNE


Adelaide Register (9/10/’l9) speaks of.
some Australian wines as being equal to the (
best products of the north of Europe. Ah.
but has the Register ever sampled Spitzber-
guudy?
Raymond Poincare’s two visits to London :
The cable that the President of France will visit
England next month recalls the sensation made by
his first visit to London, in the gay season of 1913.
This time he comes as guest of Glasgow University
to receive the highest tribute that a British Univer-
sity can bestow ; and his installation as Lord Rector
will probably be the last important social function
of the most memorable year in history. He will be
the first non-Britisher to occupy the position. This
time he will be accompanied by his wife, and will
stay for a few days at Buckingham Palace before
proceeding to Scotland. On his first visit he came
alone: for that was not a personal affair, but the
first occasion in which a President of France had set I
foot on British soil, and the final act in the cement-
ing of P entente cordiale. The Royal procession
swung from Constitution Hill into Piccadilly on its
way to St. James's on a perfect English summer
day. The tricolor waved in solitary glory on the
top of Apslev House; the Coldstream Guards and a
detachment of the Household Cavalry lined the Pic-
cadilly portion of the route; and the band of the
Grenadier Guards greeted the guest with The Mar-
seillaise as the gilded State coach swung past the
gates of the Green Park. Things have moved since
that day; and Glasgow is the first British insti-
tution to puMicitv recognise the worth of a true
friend who has been rather overshadowed by the
more dominating personality of his great, tempes-
tuous Prime Minister.
Amusement*.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director HUGH D. McINTOSH.
IVO LI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday, at 2.30.
THE OFFICERS’ MESS.
The Latest and Greatest Musical Play.
Plans at Nicholson’s and the Tivoli.
"piVOEI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH D. McINTOSH presents
LONDON’S LATEST DAZZLING REVUE,
BUZZ, BUZZ.
Prices as usual.
OK I T E It 1 O N TII EA T It E, SYDNEY.
Direction .1, C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
NIGHTLY AT 8.
Matinfies Wednesday and Saturday at 2.
AGAIN THE LAUGH MAKERS,
M. •B. FIGMAN and
LOLITA ROBERTSON in
A TAILOR-MADE MAN.
A HIGH-SPEED COMEDY,
ENTIRELY IN THE FIGMAN MANNER.
Plan at Paling’s.
HE It ill A .1 IS S T Y ■ 8. S Y I) N 15 Y.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MatinCes Wednesday and Saturday at 2.
THE
NEW ENGLISH MUSICAL COMEDY CO.
GOING UP.
Plan at Paling's. Prices as usual.
T H
EAT R E
ROYAL, SYDNEY.
NOW SHOWING TWICE DAILY.
E. J. CARROLL presents
THE SENTIMENTAL BLOKE.
Pictured just as Dennis wrote it.
ALSO MISS CARRIE LANCELY AND HER
MELODY MAIDS.
Prices: Evenings, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-; Matinees, 2/-, 1/-.
All plus tax. Plan at Palings.
pAL A C E THEA T R E, SYBNB Y.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday at. 2.
J. & N. TAIT present
DADDIES.
A Fragrant Romance. A Sparkling Comedy.
A New Comedy Featuring a New Company.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
u
MON I’ICTIIK IS T II E A T It E 8
THE PICK OF THE WORLD’S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYCEUM,
STRAND, GLOBE, LYRIC, EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC, GRAND, KING’S CROSS,
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present for a brief
revival only,
KATINKA.
Plan at Allan’:
Prices as usual.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the Famous Play
of Sentiment, Pathos and Humor,
LIGHTNIN’.
Plan at Allan’s.
Prices as usual.
K
ING’S THEATRE. M E L B O U R N E.
Lessees: BAILEY * GRANT.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, OCTOBER 25,
AND FOR ONE WEEK ONLY.
J. & N. TAIT present the Delightful play,
QUINNEYS.
Prices as usual.
Plan at Allan’s.
HOYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge - ).
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
C- J. DENNIS’S
THE SENTIMENTAL BLOKE.
PEGGY HYLAND in
THE GIRL WITH NO REGRETS.
Prices as usual.
Am us enients.
|yjAJESTIC THEATREj MELBOIRKE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY'.
ALICE BRADY
in
MARIE, LTD.
MATINEES DAILY AT 2.30. NIGHTS AT 8.
QIACIA R I C M, MELBOURNE.
JAZZ PALAIS
DANCING.
EVERY EVENING,
8.15 to 10.45.
DI GILIO’S SPECIAL BAND.
Admission 1 /*
Single Dances */®
Book of 14 Dance Tickets ... 3/6
Amusements.
QLYMPIA, WIRTHS’ PARK, MELBOURNE.
WIRTHS’ NEW CIRCUS LTD.
GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays and Holidays.
Plan at Glen's.
|y| ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
WORLD and SELZNICK.
BRITANNIA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
M. THEATRE, GISBORNE.
THE ALLAN WILKIE COMPANY,
including Miss FREDISWYDK HUNTER-WATTS,
Touring New Zealand —12th week in
HINDLE WAKES. CANDIDA, THE SCHOOL FOR
SCANDAL, SHE STOOPS TO CONQUER. TRILBY,
-CAMILLE, THE SILVER KING, THE MIDNIGHT
WEDDING.
DITT ENGINEERING COMPANY
“KING=OF=ALL”
PETROL OR
BENZINE
ENGINES.
Mad* in
England..
A BRITISH
PRODUCTION
of the
Highest Class
at the
LOWEST PRICE.
-^Tj
High-Tension
Magneto.
Ring-Oiler
Bearings.
Shipped com-
plete on Base,
ready for work.
EXPORT OFFICES—
-36=38 Victoria Street, London, S.W. “Pittengyco, London.’•
We Never RAISED PRICES
We are proud to be able to adver-
tise that during the whole of the five
years of War we never raised the price
of any of our Diamond stock, .notwith-
standing that Diamonds rose 100 per
cent, in those years.
Our directors stronglv opposed pro-
fiteering. They thought it better to
increase Customers rather than Profits.
Their thought was right, too, as is
shown by our having sold last mpnth
Two Fine Diamonds
and one Sapphire,
set in Platinum,
£lO.
Fine Diamonds and
Centre Emerald, set
in Platinum,
£l2.
Selected Rubies and
Diamonds, set in
Platinum,
£l2/15/-
DOUBLE what we soli) the same month Inst year , .. .. ,
We can safely advertise that we are selling the best grades of Diamonds at far less than English
prices.
Permit us to show this in comparison.
Fairfax CSL Roberts Ltd.,
Plain Figures. Cash onlv.
The Oldest Jewellery House In Sydney,
23 and 25 Hunter Street.
Get Your Ice Chest
Ahead of the Warm Weather
Don’t be without an Ice Chest this season.
Remember, the advantages of keeping pro-
visions, meat, fruit, jellies, etc., fresh and
in good condition far outweigh the initial
cost.
DANES’
ICE CHESTS
are Fitted with Improved
Patent Ice Savers.
They are properly insulated and
perfectly ventilated —hygienic and sub-
stantially constructed for a long period
of satisfactory service. In various sizes
to suit each particular purpose.
mi
iK-
t ra
Keenly Priced from £4/9/- Upwards.
Call and inspect our complete range of designs, or write for prices
and particulars.
II 111 III J
-A-*-*
iiiuiiiiiiiiiiuiiim<
NOS'?
Qiiiiiiijiiiiiiiii
NHOr
ligillllllllllllUr
iimim
324 Pitt Street (Near Liverpool Street), SYDNEY.
And 391 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
Amusements.
VICTORIA RACING CLUB.
REMINGTON.
CUP WEEK.
Derby Day Ist November
Cup Day 4th November
Oaks Day 6th November
Steeplechase Day ... Bth November
Stakes Will Amount to About
£32,000.
The Magnificent Improvements Add Much
to the Comfort of Visitors.
H. BYRON MOORE, Secretary.
Tenders.
Gold Ore Slimes
For Safe.
TENDERS, closing at midnight on
November 29, 1919, at the
TASMANIA GOLD MINE OFFICE,
BEACONSFIELD, TASMANIA,
will be received for the purchase of
90,000 tons (more or less) of
GOLD ORE SLIMES of 4dwt. Gold
Value. The Slimes are on freehold
land and creek runs close by.
The highest or any Tender not
necessarily accepted. Subject to
Sales, a quantity of Wood Solution
Vats, Precipitation Boxes, Mechani-
cal Agitators and Thickeners may
also be purchased.
Legal Notice.
r|AO JOHN MACK IE WILLIAMSON,
JL brother of George Alexander William-
son, deceased, and formerly of Melbourne, .
Victoria, and supposed to have joined the
Australian Imperial Forces, and all persons
claiming by, through or under him.
PURSUANT to an Order made on the
25th day of September, 1919. by a Judge of
the Supreme Court of New Zealand, you are
hereby called upon to send in to the under-
signed on or before the 31st day of March,
1920, your claims to the estate of George
Alexander Williamson, deceased, late of Sea-
cliff Mental Hospital, Otago, New Zealand,
who died on or about the Ist day of June,
191 S, intestate, failing which the estate
will be distributed amongst those entitled
thereto disregarding your claim.
Dated at Wellington, this 29th day of
September, 1919.
G. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington.
MUsine Friends.
IF MRS. MAY DERN (formerly May
Reece), wife of Conrad Dern of Isisford,
Queensland, who left Isisford for Chiltern,
Victoria, on 29th November, 1908, will at
once communicate with the undersigned she
will hear of something to her advantage.
Should she be dead, any person able to
afford proof of her death is earnestly re-
quested to write immediately to
RONALD F. SWANWICK, Solicitor,
Blackall, Central Queensland.
IF this should meet the eye of FARRELL
DOLAN, or anyone knowing his address,
kindly communicate with GAVAN DUFFY.,,
KING & CO., Solicitors, Melbourne, and
information to be supplied by them is to his
advantage. He carried on mining operations
for years at Menzies, and was last heard of
from Perth about four years ago.
ILL GEORGE CECIL PREEVETT,
or anyone knowing his whereabouts,
please communicate with his Mother without
delay. Mrs. W. S. Preevett, Alder-Claren,
Mulgrave Street, Cairns.
HOTEL
METROPQLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club ant! Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain anti Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 12/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 4/- and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all Particulars posted on application
to The Manager.
After reading, will you please send this paper to
the Red Cross Book, Magazine and Newspaper Depet,
5 Wynvard Street, Sydney, or place it in one of the
receptacles provided for the purpose. All copies thus
received are divided equally between the Red Cross
Society ar.d the War Chest Fund, and are posted
weekly to our soldiers abroad. •'


Write
THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE
{STATE GUARANTEE) ACTS AS
EXECUTOR TRUSTEE, ADMINISTRATOR, ATTORNEY and AGENT.
Expert, Efficient and Economical Management.
or rail for full particulars, CULWULLA CHAMBERS, 67 CASILEIvEAGH.STREET, SYDNEY.
or T W. GARRETT, Public Trustee.
r
&
,0 pOORDJLSON
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
%
DT
V Ltd.. Australasian A (rents. 26 30 Clarence St., Sydney.
Swift & Company
“THEY COME AS
THE PICKWICK,
A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
AN OUTSTANDING EXAMPLE OF
AUSTRALIAN SHOECRAFT.
Peapes’ Foot-wear is GOOD footwear —noted for its -wearing
quality, its style, its shape-retention. We are proud to
advertise that it is AUSTRALIAN —and that in this
Brogued Shoe, illustrated, will be found a typical example
of Peapes’ productions, which are all built on special lasts.
This shoe is leather-lined and has heavy double soles with
wide rope-stitched welts.
Studded .’oles supplied for Golfers’ wear, if requested.
Tan Willow Calf or Black Box Calf
PEAPES’ PAY POSTAGE.
37/6
Please state size and width of toe fitting.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 & 311 George St., SYDNEY.
df
SUNDRY SHOWS.
I SYDNEY SHOWS FOB COMINCI WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Going Up (>
Criterion ‘A failor-mads
Palace
r oyal “The Sentimental Bloae
Tivoli •. The Otficcrs Mess
(I OYT ' S Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving-Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOB COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Katinka”
Royal “LigUtmn
King's “quiimeys^
Tivoli Buzz Buzz
Hoyt's De Luxe k Lyceum Moving Pictures
Maj,estic Moving 1 ictures
Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Glaciaricm • Dancing
Olympia Wirths Circus
The screen ghost of “The Sentimental
Bloke,” captured by the Southern Cross
Picture Co. and exhibited by E. J. Carroll,
is now walking at the Royal, and Sydney
threatens to make as much fuss over him
as Melbourne did. The picture is admirably
done throughout. In the first place producer
Raymond Longford made the happiest selec-
tion in engaging Arthur Tauchert for the
Bloke. A tame Bloke who looked as if he
had been fed by hand in drawing-rooms
would have ruined the classic. Taucherr.
has the rugged appearance that goes with
the text, and his skill in screen-acting does
the rest. The critic who carps eight hours
a day may object that Lottie Lyell idealises
Doreen too much. The obvious excuse seems
to be that the actress makes Doreen what
her sentimentalist always imagined her to
be. The supporting artists do their duty,
and photographer Arthur Higgins earns a
word of praise for Ins part of the big job. J'
Last nights of the nursery-play “Daddies”
at the Palace. Sara Allgood is on her way
to Sydney with “Old Lady HI.”
Sydney Majesty’s is still earning its rent
with the New Comics and “Going Up.”
Some people are wishing that a new show
would come to town and give the street
bands some fresh tunes to blow.
v v '!•
“A Tailor-made Man” is in its third week
at Sydney Cri. Students of Yankee business
methods, clothes, humor and beauty who
have not already attended the M. B. Figman.
school are hereby advised to hurry up.
“The Officers’ Mess” is now eight weeks
old at Sydney Tivoli. It must be the
dancing.
* * * *
At Sydney Crystal Palace and the Strand
Clara K. Young is a beauteous French girl
who stumbles over “The Road Through the
Dark” unaided, and eventually reaches the
forgiving arms of the pe-ure young man who,
during the three years she has been the vic-
tim of the wicked advances of the German
“Daddies,” at Sydney
Palace.
Kay Souper as the
daddy with triplets.
Prince, hasn’t
done much for her
in tli e helping-
hand mission line
of business, “The
W oman Thou
Gavest Me” makes
business brisk at
the Haymarket.
When the final
balance is struck
the woman pays,
as usual. Corinne
Griffith is “A Girl
at Bay” at the
Lyceum, and Jack
Pick ford is the
fighting youngster
in the other half of
the session.
“Struck Oil” at
the Town Hall
shows Maggie
Moore back in the
part that laid the
foundation of the
J.O.W. fortune.
The story loses
none of its simple
charm in the pic-
tu r e version.
M aggie, as the
Dutch girl, is de-
lightfully mis-
chievious, and the
gentle art of
Roberts fits to the
part of the cobbler-
dad as the hand
to the glove. The
make-up of the two of&ncinals is a triumph,
the photography better than in the second-
best imported film, and the minor parts are
cleverly portrayed. The sleuths of Sydney
Grand Opera House have discovered what
happens “'When London Sleeps. Accord-
ing to the cables, it is so seldom now that
the good old thriller has almost a historic
value.
“Katinka” will repeat its story of the
vanishing bride and the baffled bridegroom
for one more week, and then the serious
Opera Co. will arrive at Melbourne
Majesty’s with Amy Castles as “Butterfly.”
At Melbourne King’s, the Taits are remov-
ing “Old Lady 31” to make room for “Quin-
ney’s.” That charming comedy is billed
for a week only, but a lot of people who
have only heard of it as a repertory play
can improve their education in a week if
they have a mind to.
At Melbourne Royal the weeks of
“Ligntnin’ ” are now nine, yet it seems
that old Bill, and the judge, the winsome
double-voiced lady, and all the other parti-
cipants in this singularly fortunate per-
formance will be on the same job till the
racing carnival has run its course.
Nothing has happened to impair the busi-
ness prospects of “Buzz Buzz” at Melbourne
Tivoli. Public opinion doesn’t rave over its
delights, but_ the
verdict is favor-
able, and the city
is full of frivollers
who are easily
tickled to death.
Hoyt’s in Mel-
bourne are show-
ing “The Senti-
mental Bloke”
this wee k—mat-
inees at the, De
Luxe and evenings
at the Lyceum,
over Prince’s
Bridge. The Bloke
is the talk of the
picture -going
world, and all the
visible domestic
events incidental to
the arrival of Bill’s
first-born at Apple
Gully are d is-
cussed at mothers’
meetings. William
Hart in “Border
Wireless” and
Peggy Hyland in
“The Gii’l with no
Regrets” happen
on the De Luxe
screen only; and
the Lee Kiddies in
“Smiles” help fill
“The Officers ’ Mess,"
at Sydney Tivoli.
Ivy Challis (Lottie
Sergeant) in pyjamas.
up the bill at Hoyt’s other show. The Melba
and Britannia are making good with tull
programmes as usual.
The Circus came to Melbourne last Satur-
day, and in the vast Olympia building the
■elephants renewed acquaintance with then
old home. Four-footed followers ot the
Circus seem not so numerous as they weie
before the war, but the lions, born in IJI4,
have been growing in wisdom and stature
all the time, likewise the gigantic beasts
that carry trunks, and even the very adult
bear pretends to be a bigger fool than he
was. The horses, on the other hand, make
a display of ripened intelligence, so that
the average quality of the animal acts looks
higher than of old. Moreover, the gymnastic
and wire-walking turns are in several cases
remarkable. Among the first-timers the
Eddy Duo, on the wire, are a particularly
smart pair of strangers. The lady Eddy,
who dances and prances on her slender loot-
hold, is a joy to gaze upon, whilst Pinup
Eddy achieves the risky feat of flip-flap-
ping head over heels. The Montforts, tra-
pezists, are billed for a Loop of Death, but
probably there is more danger of death in
the flip-flap aforesaid, though it is less
apparent. And the surviving _ Howard
brother re-appears in a second-sight act,
wherein a lady nowadays shrieks forth
answers to the questions.
Adelaide Repertory Theatre, after a long
hibernation due to strikes, weddings and
other troubles, came to life again with
“Hedda Gabler,” not locally seen since
Nance O’Neil’s time. The long and trying
name-part was easily the best thing Kitty
Sullivan lias done. Passionless but incur-
ably mischievous, a cat that at any moment
may grow into a tiger, the Ibsen lady des-
troys other lives, and just as readily her
own. Specially neat was Miss Sullivan’s
way of giving such speeches as “I suppose
I am quite in your power now?” The last
10 minutes, with Ray Walsh playing up to
her incisively as Judge Brack, were memor-
able. Ronald Simpson stressed the amiable
futility, the “Private Secretary” side, of
the husband’s nature. Wilfred Neill, Ethel-
wyn Robin and Beryl Kook played smaller
parts with accustomed finish. It was one
of the best things done by the Rep., and
drew a fine house at the King’s.
The Opera, mostly with Italian men and
Australian girls, continues to do big busi-
ness at Adelaide Royal. A feature of the
week is “Rigoletto,” with Filippini and Carl
Formes sharing the name-part, Gertrude
Johnson and Gladys Verona taking turns as
the heroine. Similarly, Elsy Treweek and
Leah Myers share Carmen, Valenti and
Formes Mephistopheles. Amy Castles is a
robust and highly popular Marguerite, Minu
and Butterfly, Walter Wheatley takes the
lead as Faust, Pinkerton and Rudolph, and
young Lois puts in flue work. To the Tivoli
comes a bunch of Irish players in “Killar-
ney,” with Conrad Power and his smile at
the head. At the Majestic Ella Airlie
“entertains” pleasantly at the piano, the
Delevale brothers make play with a Chaplin
skit, and Sa Hera is coming in with her
magic powers. In pictures, Pauline Freder-
ick scores at Wondergraph in the old “Paid
in Full,” and Dorothy Dalton shows how-
easy it is for an American woman to spend
too much money. At West’s Clara Williams
in “The One Woman” stands aside to let
several hundred men riot.
“Ox” : Ken Bracken’s marriage with red-
haired Bonnie Quinlan of the Mclntosh
forces isn’t the Turf’s first alliance with the
Australian stage. Crack jockey Hugh
Cairns wed Molly Maguire, also of Tivoli
fame, and L. A. Walker amalgamated with
Doris Tindall, formerly a male impersonator
with the Fullers.
“Druriolanus”: One is reminded of the
brave days of Bland Holt by the production
of the new Drury-lane drama just shown to
Londoners. It is written by new collabora-
tors but old practitioners—Louis Parker and
George R. Sims. Title: “The Great Day.”
Two of Holt’s biggest Lane successes were
“Great” plays, viz., “The Great Ruby” and
“The Great Millionaire.”
“Ike Pagliacci”: An Australian film-pro-
ducer recently told a movie-struck flapper
that he had a part for her. “You’re just
the type,” he said, “and I want you to take
the story of the play home and read it care-
fully. She did so. So did the whole family.
Next morning there was no flapper at re-
hearsal; but two big brothers and a life-
size in fathers called to ask the boss what
the thunder he meant by suggesting that
Amy was a girl like that.
“Hellish Reef”; I tried recently to watch
two picture-shows at once, but it wasn’t a
success. It was up in nice fashionable
gardens in East Batavia (Java). The two
screens were in the open, and situated about
75 yards apart, at right angles to one
another, music being supplied by one very
good orchestra. The night was warm, and
the soft-footed Javanese waiters kept us
well supplied with cold Dutch beer (at
2s. 4d. a bottle), so we did not trouble much
whether the hero was stabbed in the one
picture or married in the other.
“Plus Tax”: At present each branch of
showdom seems intent on poaching on the
other’s preserves. Chaplin stunts have be-
come a vaudeville feature, and the film
houses have retaliated sy throwing in an act
or two to supplement their pictures. The
latest development is for the continuous
houses to heave in a bit of spoken drama in
the shape of a prologue to the star film.
“Daddy Longlegs” and “Within the Law”
had them. In the latter case, although there
has been no litigation, there have been any
nurnber of hard words.
“Vaudeville Vet.”: Arthur Tauchert, the
Sentimental Bloke of the movies, is a re-
cruit from vaudeville to the celluloid. He
has been a comedian for 15 years, mostly
in black face. His sister, the late Ida
Rosslyn (wife of the far-famed Kearns),
was probably the best Australian vaudeville
soubrette of her day. Facially Tauchert is
the Bloke himself, but the resemblance
doesn’t go any further, for he’s almost as
great a stranger to Booze as Brother Marion.
Tauchert’s five-year-old boy will be the
Bloke’s son and heir who runs wild in the
“Ginger Mick” movie with which Carroll
follows up his first Dennis boom.
“Ike Pagliacci”: Ben Fuller has just sent
back from America Will and Linda Newman.
Will’s father rode ti e first bike (of present
style) sent to Australia, and the experience
made him crazy on wheeling. He put his whole
family into the business of trick-cycling.
When Will was 11 the Newman family
showed at Seymour (Vic.), and Pa Newman
made a £2O bet that the youngster would
ride the 18 miles to Nagambie in half a
day on a unicycle, i.e.. standing up on the
pedals of one wheel. The boy was allotved
three stops, and won the wager with one
to spare. A convoy careered through the
dust to see that he didn't get off and push,
and he pedalled into Nagambie amidst great
excitement. It was the only time Nagambie
was ever known to really wake up.
“S.S.”: Darlington had returned to Mel-
bourne after wanderings in many lands. His
various important engagements had led him
to Maoriland, India and S’Africa, and he
was back at his old haunts, in his native-
place, in his familiar condition of stony-
brokehess, back and once more face to face
with the fact that he was a married man
with a family. He recollected the first name
of his wife and the number of his offspring
quite distinctly, and when an old crony told
him that Minna, the eldest girl, aged 12 or
“LIGHTNIN," AT MELBOURNE.
ROYAL.
John Marvin (Robert Toms) telling Light-
nin' (John D. O'Hara) what to ask
the witness.
so, was doing a songandance turn at one of
the music-halls and was a tremendous
favorite, already earning more per week than
had ever been offered to her distinguished
parent, tie went straight away, like a good
father, to interview the management. He
explained his relationship to little Baby Dar-
lington, and asked for something on account.
“I have been a doting parent to that sweet
cheild,” he said. “I have denied her
nothing. The best of children can never re-
pay their parents for the trouble and expense
they have been, and the care and devotion
one has bestowed upon them. Yes, yes, I’ll
take five pounds.” Then, turning to a group
of kiddies rehearsing, “By, the way, Morris,
old fellow,” said he —“which is she?"
In London a professional man’s status is
determined largely by his club. That was
why H. B. Irving, whose death is just re-
ported from London, was inordinately proud
of belonging to the Athenseum. Alexander,
Tree, Du Maurier—all belonged to the Gar-
rick as Irving did (his father’s portrait is
a feature of the chief down-stairs smoking-
room), but none of them rose to the dignity
of membership of the vast Pall Mall institu-
tion. Irving always told a new acquaint-
ance the story of how he paid his first visit
to the Athenaeum after being elected. It
was at night, and he asked a waiterish man
in evening clothes the way to the library.
The man led him there with alacrity, and
subsequently insisted on piloting him over
the whole club. At the finish Irving thanked
him. “Don't mention it, Mr. Irving,” said
the other cordially. “I’ve belonged to this
club for 30 years and you’re the first mem-
ber that has ever spoken to me.” , One actor,
by the way, • surpassed even Irving, judged
by the club standard. Sir Squire Bancroft
belongs to the Marlborough, which, while it
contains as many Jews as the Athenaeum
does bishops, can only be entered on the
nomination of the King.
“ J.”: The film is a better medium than the
stage for the purpose of bringing home the
horrors of a disease like syphilis. The
secrets of the Lock Hospital can be indi-
cated with a camera: no actor could be
persuaded or would be permitted to “make
up” as (say) a dermatitis sufferer. To
that extent “Damaged Goods” in the pic-
ture is ahead of the play which failed in
Australia. But the film story is weak. The
stricken husband is not made a cautious
rake, as in the play—-one who complains
bitterly, when he discovers his ill-fortune,
that it is unfair since he has confined his
attentions to his friends’ wives all his life,
lie is shown as a sort of Yankee Joseph
who resists temptations for years, and then,
falling once, is horrified at the lady’s con-
duct. If the idea was to win sympathy for
him the episode might have been left out
altogether. It only interferes with the
action of the story. But the feeblest touch
comes at the end when the young man
lias acquired secondary symptoms as a re-
sult of being “treated” by a quack, while
his child is congenitally diseased. To wind
up the reel happily the doctor tells him
that he can be cured and his child saved.
His adviser should have said that the baby
would be better dead and that its father
had earned for himself an odds-on chance of
General Paralysis of the Insane.


Save Money on Footwear.
Buy Murdoch s Boots
wits Armourite Soles
There’s a wealth of satisfaction in these
hoots, aS” well as considerable saving.
"Armourite” Soles are made by a special
process which strengthens and toughens the
leather—putting wearing capacity into it
without impairing its pliability.
It is an absolute fact that
MURDOCHS
“Armourite” Soles
Will Outwear
Two Ordinary Soles.
Now is the time to prove it —get a pair of
Murdoch’s Boots with “Armourite” Soles.
They are made in a variety of shapes—
uppers are made from specially selected
leathers —Black Box Calf and Tan Calf.
Derby shape as illustrated —also medium
round toe. Shod with “Armourite” Soles.
Every pair guaranteed. Obtainable only at
Murdoch’s.
ORDER A PAIR TO-DAY.
Black
or
Tan
286
POST
FREE.
Send particulars of size,
shape, etc., to Desk R.
Vf
Murdoch’s
in Park
St. Ltd.,
Sydney
“Complete Outfitters for Men and Boys .
? ./iMMttUAttttwu-il
'W-sissr
B^rrnn
■
tm
Prismatic Race Glasses.
THE illustration is representative of the well-
known “Ross" Prismatic Race Glass, with its
high-grade quality and finish, wide field of
vision, perfect definition, and independently focus-
sing eye-pieces—features so much appreciated by
users. Drummond’s have a selection of these glasses
ranging in price from £l 3/10/- upwards, as well as
others of reliable quality and manufacture.
®Mm. Brummonb & Co.
344-346 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE.
i.irx)o\>jnut?w pu\? 3UP9ia asnov|§uus3yv\ U6UUQ 3MX
Westinghouse
Tramway Controllers
gd
■
fl
SOME SPECIAL FEATURES:
Exceptionally strong mechanical construction.
Simple mechanism with minimum number of parts.
All parts made to gauge and strictly interchangeable.
Liberal rating of all current carrying parts.
Low maintenance.
All wearing parts easily and cheaply renewable.
Renewable finger and drum arcing tips.
All parts easily accessible both for inspection and repairs.
Simple method of cutting out either motor, when required.
Most powerful magnetic controller blow out on the market.
Constant finger tension irrespective of wear.
Stubbing entirely prevented by special design of finger springs.
All connections are visible on removal of front cover.
Ample space for incoming cables.
AUSTRALIAN OFFICES: 84 William Street, Melbourne; 14 Martin Place, Sydney.
AGENTS: ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Perth.
m
f:
Manchester
lllllllllUllntllmTinilliniMlHiniHlllMUlllllimHiiHHninnHmHiuuiiiMii
"'V
'
11111
mmsssssssm
REAL beauty in a motor car is more than enamel deep. It if
the reflected character of the men that make it. Nowhere is
the class of workmanship reflected more than in the beauty of
the present Maxwell Motor Car.
Many have thought it an entirely new model. It is just the same
Maxwell, reflecting a few more of the many refinements that have
been added to Maxwell Cars.
To-day s Maxwell combines power, endurance, comfort and
economy with pleasing appearance and a low price.
MAXWELL MOTOR CO., Inc.
OF DETROIT, MICH.
John D. Williams & Company,
Export Distributors.
2 Rector Street, New York.
Cable Address: “ Liandum —New 1 otk.”
ell
More miles per gallon.
More miles on tyres.
Messrs. Clutterbuck Bros. Ltd.
26-38 City Road, Sydney.


THE
L
K
c.
-gfei
-aw?-'
Jt *j-
- icr
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
Wit ft. which is amalgamated, the Colonial Bank of Australasia Limited.
HEAD OFFICE: Collins Street. Melbourne. ESTABLISHED 1858.
Authorised Capital
Capital paid up.
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability of
Proprietors
£5,000,000
£2,000,000
1,000,000
£3,090,000
828.000
£3,918.000
Directors : —SIR JOHN GRICE, Chairman.
EDWARD TRENCHARD, Esq., Vice-Chairman.
J. NEWMAN BARKER, Esq.
Hon. F. G. CLARKE, M.L.C.
BOWES KELLY, Esq. H. M. STRACIIAN, Esq.
Chief - M onager: E. H. WREFORD.
Deputy Chief Manager: JAMES WILSON.
Sydney Office, 60 Pitt St. Manager ; R. S. GREGSON. Acting Sub-Manager : E. J. OSBORNE.
"George St. City Office, 350 George St. Manager: J. a. G. hadley.
Branches in Victoria, South Australia. Western Australia. New South Wales.
LONDON OFFICE: 7 Lothbury, E.C. 2.
vsn
■sss-
te*S
ifesle
LO^CO'T
FREE
TREAL
BOTTLE
Lung
Troubles.
Coughs, Bronchitis, Consumption.
For any weakness of throat or chest, or any tendency
to tuberculosis; for a troublesome cough, bronchitis or
any chest affection, the standard, approved treatment is a
course of Angier’s Emulsion. This remedy combines sooth-
ing and healing properties with exceptional tonic and
strengthening qualities. It heals and strengthens the lungs,
promotes appetite, greatly improves digestion, and exerts a
pronounced tonic, invigorating influence upon the general
health. No other Emulsion is so stronglyrecommended and
so largely prescribed by the medical profession, and no other
Emulsion can show so many testimonials to its efficacy.
Send name and address, 4d. postage, and mention this paper
ANGIER CHEMICAL CO., LTD., 233 Clarence St., Sydney, NIS.W.
rom
Poverty Point to Luxury— a meal at the “PAVlLlON”—Sydney’s Dining Rooms de luxe, Circular Quay.
POVERTY
POINT
MOËT &
CHANDON
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Ecxguaste
“Norbell”; That's a good idea of play-
wright Granville Barker’s for reform-
ing stage rehearsals, mentioned by "J.H.F.”
(B. 16/10/’l9). In Australia, at any rate,
the invariable procedure when the mummer
attends the first rehearsal of a new play is
for the stage-manager to hand him his "part,”
long or short, and he has to stand around
until he hears his cue, when he wades in
more or less intelligently. He does not know
what sort of character he is supposed to be.
or even what his sex is, or what on earth
the play’s all about. Ilis “part” comprises
merely his disjointed share of the talk, and
it reads like one end of a grotesquely in-
volved argument over the ’phone. In less
hectic times, before the advent of Heaven-
sent producers, a stage-manager did occa-
sionally invite the gang to be seated while
he read the whole script to them, and gave
illuminating sidelights of his own. Robert
Brough always did this, and I have a
pleasant memory of how effectively the
urbane Arthur Dacre read to Rignold’s co.
the script of Grundy’s “A Bunch of Violets,”
and of how courteously he invited comment
on the technicalities of the new piece.
“Norbell”: In Zeehan (Tas.) in its boom
”The Officers’ Mess,”
at, Sydney Tivoli.
Ellis Holland as
Major Bramsgrove.
days our bellow co.
did 10 consecutive
nights, perpetrating
a new shocker each
evening. The
locally - engaged
property-man was
an enthusiast, inex-
perienced, but very
willing. When we
essayed “Camille”
he let himself go.
For the last act,
Camille’s bedroom,
he procured elabo-
rate furnishings.
Whilst the scene
was being set we
were all too busy
changing costumes
to inspect the pro-
perty-artist’s activi-
ties. When the
curtain went up
the most conspicu-
ous embellishment
of the stage was a
marble-top wash-
stand with all the
usual crockery. The
audience seemed
hypnotised for a
moment, but pre-
sently—l don’t
kn o w w h y—the
miners began to
laugh and make
ribald remarks.
We couldn’t see
the humor of it,
but all the same,
we had to drop the rag and remove the
baubles before Camille could die in peace.
“Black Cat” : Newcastle’s Victoria Theatre
will, at the end of the year, close down for
alterations, which are expected to cost about
£lO,OOO. The Vic. is a remarkably popular
house, with fine acoustic properties. The
last show before the men with the picks come
in will be a Red Riding Hood panto, done by
juveniles.
“R.F.” (London) ; Australian singers, like
Australian soldiers, can hold their own any-
where, given the chance to “make good,”
and an extraordinary number are coming to
the front in England just now. But present
indications reveal no one likely to occupy
a higher place than Elsa Stralia, whose suc-
cesses at Covent Garden and in the provinces
have established her in the leading place
amongst British sopranos. Gifted with a
remarkably fine stage presence as well as a
voice of gorgeous quality and a temperament
of southern warmth, Stralia looks every
inch the prima donna, and her popularity
increases with every appearance. Few
singers have been so successful in recording
for the gramophone, and her records will
provide many an object-lesson for aspiring
young singers, as well as enjoyment for un-
tutored listeners. That the struggle to get
to the top has been a terribly hard one
Madame Stralia frankly admits, and she
advises no young singer to contemplate a
European training and career unless pro-
vided with at least £5OOO.
LIKED COMPANY.
METROPOLITAN MANAGER : “Do you have any
trouble with your ushers?”
COUNTRY MANAGER: “ Yes. We have only
one, but toe have a great job to keep
him with us. He says he feels lonely
sitting by himself of an evening.”
Harrington Reynolds, who dropped dead in
the wings, of the Christchurch Opera House
the other night, was an actor who looked
like a priest. The resemblance brought him
to Australia a second time to head the cast
of “The Rosary.” His first visit was with
the Dan Frawley Co., playing “In Arizona,”
and lie acted in Africa with Hugh Buckler
before either of them thought of Australia.
In younger days he ran stock dramatic cos.
of his own in California. Reynolds was an
English-speaking American actor, and, there-
fore, not ill-placed as the papa of Ethel
Turner’s Seven Little Australians, produced
by Beau Smith.
“P.M.G.”: Ilarcourt Beatty, with a Hun-
shattered arm, lias apparently found diffi-
culty in getting placed a English shows, and
at latest had started a school of dramatic
art. He should flourish. It isn’t often the
London flapper gets an opportunity of being
taught to act by a man who has been a
hero both on and off the stage.
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: From Welling-
ton (M.L.) comes word that “Mr. J. B.
Fagan has decided to revive ‘Twelfth Night’
with the original cast.” It seems a pretty
large order in resurrections. Even so far
as Australia is concerned the “original” pro-
duction of “Twelfth Night” was in the days
when G. V. Brooke had the old Royal in
Melbourne —say 1859. Robert Heir was
Malvolio; Lambert (the best comedian of his
time), Toby Belch; Fred Young, Sir Andrew
Aguecheek; Olivia, Ellen Mortyn (she died
soon after! ; Viola, Mrs. Robert Heir (later
married to George Darrell) ; and Maria, Miss
Fanny Morgan (she later came back to Aus-
tralia as Fanny Morgan-Phelps, having mar-
ried a son of Sam Phelps, of Sadler’s Wells).
Harwood had a small part, and so did Glad-
stone, the perennial Horatio.
“The Clacking Tongue” verses by “Hamer”
(Harold Mercer) which appeared in The
Bulletin (4/9/T9) are being put into
shape for movie production. Leo Nelkin
(Nelson), of Melbourne, bought the picture
rights, aud hopes to get the cameras into
action at an early date.
A new Australian article is being shown
at the Pav. in Adelaide. Barry Lupino is
the hero of a screen story, living the simple
life in nu up-country township, fascinated
by a pantomime-fairy visitor, leaving for
Sydney, and having strange adventures in
the city, in which he contrives to be funny
and acrobatic and heroic all at once. It is as
bright as much of the stuff that comes from
America, and its Australian interest is all
to the good. Beaumont Smith, who has pro-
duced the film, is offering prizes for the most
taking name for it.
“Ibsenshaw”: Violet Vanbrugh, sister to
Mrs. “Dot” Boucicault and till recently the
wife of mummer-manager Arthur Bourchier,
evidently set herself out to score at any cost
when she reappeared on the London boards
a few months back. The play itself bore the
title "Trimmed in Scarlet,” and Violet's
showing in it caused our critic
to enthuse over “the piquant
attractions of glowing auburn
hair . and revealing evening
gowns.” But the cutest thing
about her get-up was a black-
rimmed eyeglass which has set
a fashion amongst Sassiety
women. If she doesn’t get a
dramatist to write a play round
her monocle I shall take it as
conclusive evidence of Violet’s
short-sightedness.
“Bally Who”: The most in-
ternational of jobs 1 is that of
circus performer, but artists’
federations are beginning to cast
a blight on it. The one-man-
one-job principle is no tise
under the big top where, before
glorified vaudeville poked its
head through the canvas, the
circus performer began as a
child contortionist and later
had to be ready to be a juggler,
acrobat, ring and trapeze-
performer or sword-juggler nt
a moment’s notice. In his spare
moments he learned to train
wild animals, and the only rest
he got was when he sat down
to darn bis tights or peel spuds.
There are few seasoned circus
performers who don’t possess a
working knowledge of about a
dozen languages, and the reason
is the clowning. Even Spana-
leoni, the King of the Slack
Wire, may he called upon for this job, and
as the circus doesn’t confine its operations
to one country he must be prepared to be
a fool in any language, from Herzegovinian
to plain Woolloomoolese. That’s why some
ingenious person came to invent the dummy.
In the “Chu Chin Chow” company which
Oscar Asche has sent touring Britain Madge
Mclntosh and Ethel Cadman are engaged,
the former in Lily Brayton’s part. The fact
that “Chu” is to serve as a Christmas pro-
duction at Glasgow is a reminder that
Asche’s first idea was to make a panto of
it. Then he was advised to turn it into a
drama and write in the parts for himself
and wife. Thus is history made. The
musical drama has beaten the previous re-
tard—“ Charley's Aunt” —for an unbroken
run, though the chances are it will be for-
gotten when the farcical comedy is still a
sure thing for occasional revival. Of the
plays that never had record runs but have
been famous for more than 100 years no
figures can be stated. Nobody knows for
certain which play has been oftenest per-
formed. Probably “Hamlet” or “School for
Scandal.” “The Lady of Lyons,” too, must
have had thousands of performances in its
SO years of life; also “East Lynne” and
“Camille,” which are comparative juveniles.
Muriel Window, the festive girl of the
Lauder co., who dealt so liberally with her
chest and back, stated before leaving Aus-
tralia that she would be here again at
Christmas next year to “star” in a musical
comedy. Even one short year seems a long
way to look ahead these times, but in the
vocabulary of Muriel there is no such word
as “misgiving.” She never doubts that she
was born lucky.
“A.8.C.”: Something of a record in long
“stops” has just been established by Stiffy
and Mo (Nat Phillips and Roy Rene) in
Sydney. They played 252 times at Fuller’s
theatre, and put on 16 different shows in 20
weeks.
Kate Bishop, formerly George Rignold’s
leading lady, has been seriously ill in Lon-
don, but is through what appears to be the
worst of it.
Made his last exit at Brighton (Plug. 1,
Louis Bradfield, the handsome musiedi-
comedy artist, originally an outfitter's as-
sistant at Nottingham,
“A Tailor-Made Man"
at Sydney Criterion ,
Mac Barnes as Stan-
law the millionaire.
“Vaudeville Vet-
eran” : Re early
stage angels. Forty-
one years ago, at
the old Victoria,
Sydney, there was
a production of
“Uncle Tom’s
Cabin,” in which
Nellie Holmes was
Eva, Bland Holt
Marks, George Cob
lier Legree, and his
wife Gassy, Fanny
Wiseman was
Topsy, and her
hubby (Bill South)
Was also in the
cast. The Uflele
Tom (It. B, Lewis)
was genuine ebony,
A feature of the
production was the
singing and dancing
of the Big Three—
Gilmore, Moo d j
and Copeland. Last-
mentioned two arc
now with the i-eally
angels, and Johnny
Gilmore is manager
for Pullets at Newtown (Sydney) Majesdc.
“313”: In Beaumont Smith’s racing film
“Desert Gold,’* the jockey’s part is played
bjy four people. Three of them are profes-
sional riders —McLachlan, K. Bracken ami
•T. O'Shea* The fourth is known to fortt-
ligkt followers as Jerry Ilarcourt. One of
the scenes depicts the famous horse off for
a morning gallop with Ilarcourt “up”; but
to avoid any possible damage it Was decided,
on the advice of the trainer, to change riders,
so that when Desert Gold is seen covering
the course McLachlun is on top, Later,
during the filming of the production* it was
necessary that the racehorse should bo photo-
graphed “all out.” This time lien Bracken
was riding. So, in the space of a few yards
of film, the mare carries three different
riders}.
“yandorian*’: Anyone with a thirst fob
movies can get it slaked in an afternoon at
Universal City. This queer blend of fact
and fiction is n few miles from Los Angeles
(California), and to enter it the unprofes-
sional visitor must have a permit “to view.”
Having satisfied the watchdog at the entrance,
you speed along a dusty road over a sutl-
beaten flat. On one side are lazy little hills
on which, when I was there, make-believe
rustics were tossing real hay. These hills
are priceless properties. A Swiss chalet
with the orthodox appearance of being about
to step over a precipice is perched on one.
A fortress, a nicelymrranged ruin or two and
other antiques are dotted about, and a mile
or so further there is a sort of zoo. A
“jungle” which had just been set for a picture
was mostly Australian gum-tree saplings,
artfully arranged adjacent to the menagerie.
(The eucalypt tribe flourishes in California,
where it is often grown in handsome hedges
as big breakwinds for fruit-crops.) The
crowning triumph of the “jungle” was a
venerable lion who gazed wistfully through
the bars of his cage at the swaying blue-
green leaves. In another part of the loca-
tion a thrill was being made : the heroine’s
double, an athletic young man, was in the
act of slithering down the roof of a villa
clad in a touzled wig and some ragged petti-
coats. Ex-champion boxer Jim Corbett, slim
of figure and arrayed in a swallow-tail, with
a tall opera hat on the back of his noble
head, was waiting to go on in this curdler.
But the wait was long and the sun mighty,
so the hero retired to his automobile for
40 winks.
The dramatic drought in Westralia has
broken. Muriel Starr’s tearful Madame X
and other weeps have irrigated Perth, and
the Fullers will make a debut in drama
there at Christmas with the stock eo., which
temporarily quits Melbourne Palace after
upholding virtue continuously for several
years.
BEST IN HIS CLASS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He came to me the other day,
Supported on a crutch.
He wanted help upon his way—
Old clothes, and cash, and such
Poor broken victuals as I had.
His face was pale, his eye was sad ;
He pitched a sorry tale, poor lad.
Not he the ordinary sort
Of tramp who prowls about;
A tine old Thespian in short,
Although his luck was out.
To prove his claim and earn his fee,
Propped on his crutch, with vigor he
' Recited “Denver’s Dream” to me.
“ ’Tis sad that I must beg,” he said;
“I hope you will excuse ;
But love of art is almost dead,
And few respect the muse.
I have the papers here to show
I am, dear sir, as you may know,
The champion one-legged Romeo!”
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.
THE JAZZ.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I often wonder, being who I am,
A philosophic soul of simple mind,
And hardly caring what you’d call a d —n
What happens to my likewise-simple kind--
Thus, then, the jazz, the craze for young and old,
Its foolishness, its goat- or monkey-prance;
Its sinuous whirls that sweep the shy and bold
Into the may-bes or the why-nots of the dance.
Should I his wife attend at dancing-hall
While he remains at home to count his toes,
Or wait until he slips off to the ball,
And in her parlor help her —er—darn her hose?
N.6.W.
BILLY B.


a
a
m
o
v
zf
\
•/
g
1
£
SSWS
&
a
i
-
0
Qfja
&
rv
fgd
The Tire
of Quality
Time to
Re-Tire?
Buy FISK"
Handsome Alifce
in Appearance
and in
Performance.
For EVERY Car “Fisk” Tyres
are the “wheel equipment par
excellence.” Their handsome
appearance and the wonderful
service they give on every kind
of road have made them pre-
eminently popular the world
over. Service is the watchword
in the manufacture of “Fisk”
Tyres—they are the best and
most beautiful tyres that
highest-grade material and
accurate machinery can pro-
duce.
Ask Your Garage to Supply “FISK
PRODUCED IN ALL SIZES.
SOLE AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA:
JAMES WARDLE & CO., WEST VICTORIA SQUARE, ADELAIDE.
DISTRIBUTING AGENTS:
N. S. Wales: The Fisk Tire Agency (JAMES WARDLE & CO., Proprietors), 4 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Victoria and Riverina: JOHN F. GOULDING, 515 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Western Australia: R. F. S. BARDON, Hay Street, Perth.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LiniTED, Reclfern, Sydney.
Goldfinder Soap
IIEWIS&WHITTY MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
THE. TOUCH TEELS
Glide smo
never grate .
Artists, Draughtsmen, Engineers,
Architects, Drawing Students, Busi-
ness Men—these are just a few of the
classes who buy VENUS Pencils regu-
larly.
are not a luxury, they are a
necessity for the best work.
m
m
m
i
Made in 17 degrees, 6B to
9H, and 3 styles of Copying.
OF ALL STATIONERS AND ARTISTS’-
JIATERIAL DEALERS THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALIA AND NEW 5! '.LAND.
For three years in succession newspaper
tipsters have had a soft thing in the Caulfield Cup.
Next year a startling surprise may come romping in,
and all the summing-up of public form may prove
as sounding brass and tinkling cymbals; but mean-
time scoffers at newspaper prophets are silenced.
The odds against the three stable-companions—Luck-
now, Niglit Watch and Chrome —repeating their
recent public form and filling first three places in
the Cup were more than 100 to 1 on paper. The
law of averages could find no precedent for such a
thing. From the Tory .point of view it couldn't
happen. In the ordinary way a horse needs a good,
more-or-less lucky run in this race to enable him
to win, or nearly win. Yet in Saturday’s case two
out of the three placed horses had been conspicuously
unlucky in the first half of the journey.
• ••**»
Eusebius, Richmond Main and the Adelaide nags
Clever Jim and Lord Setay were always clear of
the ruck, whilst the favorite, Night Watch, had an
easy journey until he was carried out rather wide
at the turn for home. By that time, however, the
pace had beaten everything bar Bradfield’s lot, and
Night Watch had nothing in front of him as they
came tearing down the straight. The long effort to
make up his lost leeway had exhausted much of Luck-
now’s dash, and though he had got the lead at the
distance-post he couldn’t shake Night Watch off.
Most people who realised the situation were expecting
the Melbourne Cup winner to outstay the English
horse under the circs., but there was just a little
bit of dash left in Lucknow—enough to land him
the winner by half a neck in record time. Mean-
while Chrome was putting in great work less than
a length away, and Surveyor seemed to outlast
E ichmond Main.
Of all the unplaced horses in Saturday’s event the
two last-named look the least unlikely to win the
Melbourne Cup. The question as to Surveyor stay-
ing two miles has to be reconsidered in the light of
his respectable running in the Caulfield Cup. He
finished fourth after getting a bump. hi fact,
Surveyor’s running was more satisfactory than the
performance of Richmond Main; yet neither would
seem to have a possible against Chrome and Night
Watch for the Melbourne Cup but for the suspicion
If the unpenalised pair of heroes can be kept in
in evidence of late, were all cherry-ripe on Saturday,
if the unpenalised pair of heroes can be kept in
the best of condition for another 17 days (which is
a lot of expect) they will be the pick of the bunch
f>r the two-mile race. Probably the visiting prads
will cut a better figure at Flemington, though it is
impossible to draw a line of comparison between
Randwick and Caulfield form. Kenilford’s rnance
of taking first honors at the VJLC. meeting is havl
to estimate, and nothing is certain except tnat the
Derby winner, if he wins easily, will start at a very
short price for the Cup.
Meantime the writer expects Artilleryman to win
the Derby, if he doesn’t also win the Cup.
There’s a Cup at Moonee Valley next
Saturday, and because the distance has been length-
ened to 13 furlongs the result may have a bearing
on the V.R.C. event. But there will be time to
speak of this later.
In City Tatt.’s Handicap at Randwick on
Saturday Dick Meagher had a pilot who didn’t try
to strangle him. He seemed so thankful that he
hopped off gladly, and, running along with The
Destroyer until the grey calamity blew up, left
the rest to argue among themselves about who would
take the thin end of the stake. As he travelled
the mile and a quarter in 4J without being chal-
lenged, it is apposite to remark that his Melbourne
Cup weight is 7st. 91b.—half a stone less than he
sustained on Saturday. He did well in the spec-
tacular two-miles stunt last year.
Of the four two-year-old races run at Randwick
this season two winners were sired by the Flying
Fox horse Cooltrim —Cool Light, appropriator of
the Breeders’ Plate, and Colonel North, winner of
the event for juveniles at Tatt.’s meeting on Satur-
day. They were a cheap pair, too. For Cool
Light, who is under suspicion of being the best of
Ids year, the breeders couldn’t gtet a bid. Colonel
North having won at a country meeting the pre-
vious week, put up a 101 b. penalty, and carried 9st.
to the front without much effort. He cost only a
hundred.
Newcastle Cup-winner Mount Alf has had rotten
luck in his last three starts over hurdles at Rand-
wick. He began by spilling himself over a fence.
Next time he shifted his cargo at the last obstacle
when leading a dog-tired lot home by ten lengths.
On Saturday he landed in front (with his rider
attached) at the final impediment. And then the
rankest of outsiders came rattling along astern
(with upwards of Jcwt. less to carry) and won
on the post.
A race for “novices” at Randwick on Saturday
was mainly interesting on account of the solid
backing given the Bedouin, an animal which was
handicapped inexplicably for the Melbourne Cup to
be one of the greatest three-year-olds in training—
as better than Lord Setay or Richmond Main,
and as good as Artilleryman and Royal Comedy!
Most of the field were of the suburban order, and
when it came to business eight of them were run-
ning over the top of the over-rated son of the
desert.
Myles Connell, with a double win at Randwick
on Saturday, brought his register of first arrivals
to 1011. Connell has been making these hurried
trips for 20 years. His long-suit is getting out
of the barrier. Few horse-navigators can handle
a two-year-old with more judgment.
* * * *
Cyrus, the sire of Some Boy, who won
on his first appearance in Maoriland, and incidentally
paid £5O 10s. on the Tote, was responsible for
another winner at Albion Park (Q.), when Sir
Cyrus won the Second Division Handicap.
* ■* # #
Kennaquhair and Ard-na-ree have been
entered for various races at the coming Auckland
summer meeting; the former in w.f.a. events and
the latter in the handicaps. But the success of
Seme Boy will make the M.L. handicapper wary.
The speedy son of Cyrus—-The Tart was no doubt
“chucked” into the race he won at Avondale (the
Plumpton Handicap) with Bst. 131 b., carrying lib.
overweight.
* * * *
The second round of Sydney grade cricket
ended on Saturday and left Balmain, Gordon, Peter-
sham and Wests in the lead with six points apiece.
Wests, playing Uni., made an uphill fight of what
promised to be a fairly easy thing. They eventually
won by 96 runs on the first innings, mainly through
the efforts of P. W. Docker (81). K. B. Docker was
less aggressive than P.W. for 74, and R. Bardsley
made a safe 67. Uni.’s bowling was very ordinary.
Balmain had a close call from Paddington—only
eight runs separating them. M. A. Noble has imbued
the Easterners with his own snirit, and they
fought doggedly. Balmain’s efficiency in the
field was uncanny (only one chance was missed).
Gordon heat Middle Harbor by 203 runs on the
first innings, and tried hard to win outright after
declaring at their previous days’ score of 412 for
six wickets. They would have succeeded had not
Daniel Gee stood in the breach. The once-invincible
Norths were lamentably short of bowling against
Petersham, which was why the latter topped their
score by 83 runs and won on the first innings.
Andrews made exactly a hundred for the winners.
North’s fielding was a treat. Sydney had
an unmeritorious win against C. Cumberland
by 84 runs on the first innings. Hendry,
playing for Waverley, who beat Glebe outright by
10 wickets and one run, gave a double display of
great promise. He took four wickets for 29, and
brought his not-out score to GB. Kippax, in making
112 (not out) for the winners,, exhibited some very
confident batting, wherein the “pull stroke” pre-
dominated. None of the Glebe players shone.
* * * *
The most thrilling event in the first round
of Melbourne District cricket was Uni.’s win
on the post from Pr’an. The latter declared at
278 —-an ill-judged move, inasmuch as Park turned
out to be in form. With the help of Luck he
banged up 166 n.o. in quick order, and the Students
won with three minutes to go by five wickets and
five runs. Norths declared as soon as Bracher
brought his last week’s score to 100—the total then
being 346. Souths hit up 243 for four. With
Gray and Sykes well set (they were 65 n.o. and
47 n.o. respectively) Norths were fortunate to be
saved from probable defeat by the hand of Time.
Melbourne beat Richmond by 60 runs in the
first innings. Ransford’s 99 and the 25 of Sundries
were the dominating factors. Hartkopf was the
star in the Easts v. ’Cote match. Going in second
wicket down for the latter after Easts had notched
263, he fell immediately upon the bowling and
knocked it all ways at once. During a great part
of his sensational innings of 96 he was scoring at
the rate of two runs a minute. ’Cote amassed 338.
Wood responded to ’Roy’s 175 with 116; and Saints
also won narrowly on the first innings from ’Don.
Scores 153—113.
Lightweight
champion
LLEW
EDWARDS,
who upset the
aspirations of
American Joe
Mooney on
Saturday
night.
Adelaide cricket began as excitingly as
football ended. East Torrens, last season’s premiers,
making 216 and getting four Adelaide wickets for
17, seemed to have a good thing; but Gordon
Campbell, just back from the war, stayed for
42 not out; McCarron made 60 while in with him,
and the match seemed won with nine to make and
three wickets to fall. Just at the end Townsend
and Richardson found their length again, ami East
Torrens won by three runs. Sturt beat Uni. and
Port beat West Torrens. Don Steele, Selth ."1
Pritchard were the century-makers of the day.
Glenelg gave North Adelaide a bad beat,in<r. iv
was mostly Whitty’s - doing. He is bowli, g a,
well as ever, took 6 for 26 and 3 for 13, and had
Gehrs twice, for 0 and 1.
* * * *
Joe Mooney, of America, is a fair, dogged-
looking lad with the bashed countenance which be-
speaks past ill-treatment. The Sydney Stadium
management gave him a rough spin in matching
him with Llew Edwards for his opening bout in Aus-
tralia. The affair took place on Saturday night
and from the jump there was but one in it. The
Welshman hit Mooney where, when and how he liked.
The Yank displayed plenty of pluck and resolution,
and he has a solid punch or two, notably a severe
right uppercut. But these assets were not enough
to carry him over the 20 rounds, let alone enable
him to win; and in the 11th session the referee
stopped the contest and declared Edwards the
winner, to the relief of all present except Moonev.
The latter, on hearing the decision, stepped to the
ropes and delivered a brief speech of protest. It
appeared that he hankered to go on further. Not
till it was represented to him that the local Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Young Pugs had
interfered would he desist.
With the “paper” eliminated there couldn’t have
been more than 200 people in the house. The man-
agement had advanced the admission prices—with
more justification than exists in 99 out of 100 such
cases —and an anti-profiteering movement was orga-
nised at the entrance-gate. There was no violence.
The crowd, numbering some thousands, just stood
about and employed peaceful persuasion on those
who looked like buying tickets. Their work done
they faded away in the direction of those highly
reputable hotels where, since six o’clock closing
it has been possible to get drinks at
100 per cent, above the old figure.
* * * *
What wonders Welshmen are as fighters
in the lightweight or welter class! Edwards is one,
of course. So are Wilde (the greatest thing for his
size the world has ever known), Johnny Basham
(perhaps the best welter in the world), Driscoll
and Freddie Welsh. Close up come Jews. Benny
Leonard, lightweight champion of the world, and
Phil Bloom, who fought at Detroit (U.S.A.) last
week (Leonard winning easily), are both Yids.
Johnny Dundee, whom Leonard is to meet next, is
also a Hebrew—an Italian whose right name is
Carrora. Harry Stone is in their class, and Adolf
Wolgast, and “Kid” Lewis (right name Gershon
Mendeloff), and Charley White, who twice knocked
out Milbum Saylor and several others. The heavies
and middles —Dempsey, McGoorty, Darcy, Gibbons,
Dillon, Clubby—mostly have some Irish in them.
“Sailor” Brown now claims the feather-
weight championship of South Aus. He has
recently defeated two aspirants to ttie title, Roy Hay*
ward (20 rounds) and “Weedy” Zubinich, whom he
had in such a bad way at the end of 10 that the
police stopped the fight. “Sailor 7 had five years
on the Melbourne.
* * * *
A cable was received by the Lawn Tennis
Assoc, of Australasia on Monday night stating that the
Davis Cup challengers have got berths and are
leaving “about Oct. 30.” The team finally chosen is
made up of Kingscote, A. H. Lowe and Beamish.
Lieut.-Coionel Kingscote, M.C., is 30 and a remark-
ably correct little player. He lacks force. Major
Lowe is three years older. He has a terrific service
and is a fine base-line player. A. E. Beamish was
regarded as England's greatest doubles _ player 10
years ago, but it is doubtful if his form is anything
like it was. The team would have been strengthened
by either Woosnam (the youngest of the British
front-rankers) or Parke (whose ill-health is probably
preventing his making the trip), or even the veteran
Davson, who beat Patterson at Queen’s Club. Brookes
and Patterson are arriving by the Niagara on Satur-
day.
* * *
A record crowd turned up for the G.P.S.
championships at Sydney on Saturday. Peter J.
Heath (C. of E. Grammar) won the 100yds.
(10 2-osec.) and 220yds. (23 l-ssec ) In the
440yds, however, R. W. McFadyen defeated him
on the tape in 53 l-ssee. Heath s times show ini-
provement on those of last year; but the altera-
tion in the finishing points gave the youths a help-
ful breeze. Heath looks like an Australasian champion.
McFadyen (Scots’) is inches taller, and he pos-
sesses a “high” style which is capable of improve-
ment Over the 120yds. hurdles, F. W. Edwards
iC.E.G.S.) and D. Munro (Grammar) finished in
that order in 10 4-ssec. ; and Munro also landed
the shot-put with 40ft. (record). There was no
vim in the high jump (three dead-heated with 6tt.
sin.) or broad jump. J- B. Darnell and EL T.
Nicklin (both C.E.G.S.) fought a ding-dong finish
in the mile (4min. 54sec.). In the “under 16”
class, the tall F. Bayldon (Grammar) won the
lOOvds. (llsec.) and was second to H. Hodgson
(Newington) in the 220yds. (24Jsec.). S. Burt
(Sydney High) put up new figures when he won
the 90vds. hurdles in 13 l-ssec. In the under
14” division, G. Maiden (Newington) smashed
records for the 100yds. (11 7-10 sec.) and 220yds.
(2GJsec.) chiefly by means of his bulldog fimsa.
The adjustment of points gave C. of E. G. School
(59) the senior championship for the year; Scots’
(42) and Grammar (39). In the junior Newing-
ton (43) had an easy win from Grammar (32) and
Armidale (21).
* • * *
There were three public school athletic
meetings in Melbourne on Friday. On the M.C.C.
the Scotchmen contested all events included in the
big public schools’ championships, to be held on
the last Friday of this month. Edmunds, of Scotch,
u younger brother of several Edmundses who have
all been champions of this college in turn, sent
the 161 b shot 3Sft. 10in„ and Tranter cleared 21ft.
lin in the broad jump. At the Melbourne Grammar
meetirm- A. C. Wildman did the hundred in 10 4-sstc.
against'’ a strong wind, and recorded 25 3-10 sec.
for the furlong, while 11. Sargent jumped 21ft.
2Jin S. Woinarski did 11 l-ssec. for the under
16” hundred, and Woodside ISsec. for 120yds.
hurdles —all against a wind. At Wesley, on an
even more exposed ground, Norman and Abernethy
tied in the hundred in llsec. In the run-off on
Saturday morning Norman pipped his rival by a
couple of inches in 10 4-ssee. In the high jump
Bilson did sft. 8-Jin. in something like Lestcr-Kelly
stvle, but without that wonderful leaper’s turn in
the air which left him facing the bar as he landed.
KelVs 6ft. stands as a public-school record. Aber-
nethy won the 120yds. hurdles after another dead-
heat in 17 1-ssee. ; Patten the 440 yds, in 55 3-ssee
rather easily; Creed the high jump under 16
with sft. 2in., and Brooks the 100yds. “under 16
in 11 3-lOsec. Wells cleared 21ft. lin. Three
boys on the same day registered within an inch or
so of each other, so their meeting at the public
schools combined should prove interesting. The sho.-
put of Edmunds is easily the best for a schoolboy
in the State. Green won the championship of
England in 1890 with but 37ft. Bin.; and the Aus-
tralasian record (put up at Bathurst in 1902 bj
O’Reilly) is only 44ft. Sin.
* * * *
Tliis year’s N. S. Wales Rifle Association
meeting at ltandwick was dogged by vile weather.
In the circumstances the “possible” by C. C.
Castine (S.A.) in the “Referee” (15 shots at
600yds.) was a remarkably fine effort. Under better
conditions, W. H. Carter (Vic.) put 10 shots into
the “bull” at 300yds. in the “Motton. IL V.
Ewart (Vic.) also put up a great score in the
“Dangar” (15 shots at 900yds.), 74 out of 75; and
W. R. Claque (N.S.W.) put up 47 out of 50 in
the “Newmarch” (10 shots at 700yds.). The “Long-
field” aggregate of these “A” matches was a tie
between E. Walker (N.S.W.) and S. M. O’Brien
(Vic.), and in the shoot-off the latter won.
The “King’s” was in three stages. At the first
—the “Prince of Wales” (seven shots at 300yds.,
500yds. and 600vds.)—C. H. Matthews (N.S.W.),
,T. H. Williams (Vic.), G. E. Ellis (Vic.) and D. IL
Mitchell (N.S.W.) tied with 101 (out of 105) ; in
the second stage—the “Simmons” (seven shots at
600yds. and 700vds.) —F. J. Morris (N.S.W.) scored
66, and C. Williams (Vip.) 65 (out of 70). The
latter led at this stage with 164. The weather
was good for the final stage—the “Le Maitre” (15
shots at 800yds. and 10 shots at 900yds.). O. E.
Boyd (N.S.W.) came with a rattle and scored 122
points, and F. Stockbirdge 120 (out of 125). Boyd s
aggregate then stood at 279, and Williams had to
score 44 (out of 50) to win—and he just did it!
The totals of the leaders in the “King’s” were:
C. Williams (Vic.) 2SO, O. E. Boyd (N.S.W.) 279,
D. McGill (Vic.) and A. 11. Baker 273 each.
In the teams “service” matches, Sydney Rifle
Club won the “Sargood” (teams of four), worth
£2O; Parramatta second. In the “Lady Rawson”
Parramatta B, E and A teams filled the places.
* * * *
Queensland Rugby League put up the
shutters on Saturday after Valley had run over
Coorparoo in the Challenge Final—2B points to 2.
THE CAULFIELD CUP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Against the rails, beyond the stand,
He started conversation;
His gaudy rings, on either hand,
Demanded admiration;
He looked a boy, but may have been
A man of five and thirty;
His necktie had a silken sheen,
And, oh, his nails were dirty!
“I’m out o’ luck,” the stranger cried;
“Of late I’m always losin’.
On multv certs, what’s ’one and dried,
I’ll do my socks and shoes in
Unless it changes right away;
An’ so I’ve gorn an’ tuk now
The odds to ninety quid to-day
About this bloomin’ Luck-now.
“Thera’s nothin’ in a name, o’ course,
But this one's gay and festive,
An’ I’m a mug what picks a ’orse
Whose moniker’s suggestive;
I like to ’ug a fond belief
In omens what’s deceivin’
Each time my fancy comes to grief
I still keep on believin’.
And ’ere’s a toff—l like ’is looks —
’E’s never sour or shifty;
’E’ll try to let me beat the books
For .somethin’ like three-fifty;
Besides, ’is color is my own —
A ginger gee for pluck, now —
’E’ll come in on ’is Pat Malone,
So ’elp me Gawd, will Lucknow.
“They’re orf! They’re orf!” the stranger cried,
An anxious frown his face on;
“The chestnut’s badly placed inside!
My oath ! they’ve got the pace on!
What’s in the lead? Oil, never mind—
As long as ’e’s not stuck now,
’E’ll leave the blessed field behind
Before ’e’s done, will Lucknow.
There’s three or four are droppin’ back,
They’re fairly out of danger;
They might as well be orf the track,
A-cleanin’' out their manger.
Is that the lavender and rose
Emergin’ from the ruck row?
Yus, judgin’ by the way ’e goes,
It must Ire good old Lucknow.
“They’re round the turn! Oh, strike me dead!
Am I awake or dreamin’?
The silly name what turned my ’ead
Ain’t what the crowd is screamin’.
It’s Richmond Main ! Eusebius ! Chrome !
But O Lor’ love a duck, now,
’E’s cornin’ wif a rush for ’ome,
Is Lucknow. Lucknow , Lucknow !
No, no, there’s Night Watch gainin’ ground,
An ’Chrome not far behind ’em.
(It’s only w’en I bet a pound
That I can ever fipd ’em.)
Yus, Night Watch! Oh, my name is Dirt,
I’m fairly in the muck now:
Qorn broke upon another cert —
Just like my blanky luck now.”
The putting of the numbers up
My awful friend awaited,
And then he knew what won the Cup,
And loudly jubilated.
“I knew ’e’d win ! I ’ad the tip —
A reel good thing I struck now.”
He slapped my back and shouted Hip,
Hip, hip hooray for Lucknow.
I hurried off, lest in the air
My hat he’d want to chuck now,
And left the bounder standing there,
Who had been quite prepared to swear
And curse the name of Lucknow.
VICTORIA.
O. K.


How’d You LiKe to Get a
THrashing
from a man smaller than yourself?
It would be a mighty uncomfortable
experience—an experience that many
a man lias gone through, to his sor-
row. Make no mistake about it,
size does not protect a man when he
is called upon to defend himself.
The man who KNOWS the art of
scientific boxing- has it “all over'’ his
opponent.
I Teach Boxing by Pest
teach it in a thoroughly scientific and practical
manner. Now, don’t get the idea that I teach you
only the theory, because that’s not so. Under my
guidance you will learn how to make all the “hits,”
‘stops” and “moves” of the world’s most scientific
boxers.
“SNOWY BAKER K. 0.” BOXING
GLOVES.
In two grades, 15/6 and 21/- per set of four
Gloves, Post Free. Every pair personally
selected and guaranteed.
W rite your name and address across this advertise-
ment and post it to me, and I will send you my
interesting booklet, “Scientific Boxing in Your
Home,” which tells all about my methods, terms,
etc. Please send three stamps for postage.
Those desiring to avail themselves of personal instruction at my
Institute are invited to call and have a chat with me and see a
Demonstration.
REG. L. (“ Snowy”) BAKER.
1 The All-round Champion Athlete of Australia,”
13S Muaicipil Buildings, Oxford St. (Cor. Crown St.), Sydney.
mm
great-
Atu£ntk£Flß;ht
r.
\ 9
r SHELL
BENZINE
J WAS USED
In the Vickers-Vimy Bombing:
Aeroplane Mown by Capt.
Sj Alcock and Lieut. A. W.
Brown.
The Gear Ratios of a
l-TON FORD Worm Drive TRUCK
aro: Low, 20 to 1 ; High, 7J to 1.
The MOORE 4-SPEED GEAR-BOXES
provide, in addition: Extra low, 40 to 1 ; Inter-
mediate. 14i to 1. For heavy work and Over-
speed, 4i to' 1, for fast City delivery, etc.
MOORE 4-SPEED GEARS for all
FORD models. .
WESTCOTT, HA ZELL & CO. LTD.,
311 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
DUNCAN & CO. PTY. LTD.,
MELBOURNE & ADELAIDE.
J. A. DIMMITT, PERTH, W.A.
A {ten ts WANTED Queensland.
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOB
MINING. MILLING, etc.
INCLUDING
STEAH ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL BE POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO
THE SECRETARY, THE GENERAL MANAGER, THE SECRETARY,
Box 229 G.P.0., MOUNT MORGAN, Box 220 G.P.0.,
MELBOURNE. QUEENSLAND. SYDNEY.
I i ?
«w
I i i
-
gfgti
: : :
ipfl
n
Screens and Perforated Plates
For Stone-Crushing Plants, Coal Mines, etc.
Any size hole up
to in. in
plate.
Stone Breakers, Crushing Rolls,
Portable Road Plants, Elevators.
MANUFACTURED BY—
JAQUES BROS. Pty. Ltd.,
Coppin Street, Richmond, MELBOURNE, VIC.
Send for our Illustrated Catalog No. 20.
for Indigestion.
s.
w
£
i&'i
\
it
i
i
s s
r
rS
siamc
/s.-e*
n
lam
%
Jr
M
r r
$9
Their
Supremacy
Rests on
W-O-R-K-M-A-N-S-H-l-P.
It is workmanship that, lends individuality in a
decided degree to “Veribest” Shirts, placing them
in a class by themselves, and which forms the
Big Reason why the Shirts YOU wear should
bear the “Veribest” label.
“Veribest” Shirts are made in our own work-
rooms, and their attributes of Correct Cut —easy,
SPORTS STYLES- 8/6
With Turned-back Collar. In High-grade Wash-
ing Textures, featuring neat Stripe Effects. 8/6
(Post Free.)
vet Accurate, Fit—Perfect Balance and Flawless
Finish increase to the maximum the sum total
of Shirt Comfort and Shirt Service.
To workmanship of the highest order add
materials of Excellent Quality—Colors and
Designs coincident with Fashion’s Latest Deci-
sions, and you have a complete statement of the
Reasons for “Veribest” Supremacy.
LOUNGE STYLES 10/6
With Collar and Pocket, Button Cuffs. In White
matte, 10/6 In Heav y JAP silks, 18/6
(Post Free.)
LINCOLN, STUART & CO. PTY., LTD.,
244-254 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE.


Pmk
TravelUngNeeds
BAGS and baggage proclaim the
traveller’s status! Good taste demands
that he carry luggage of smart, distinc-
tive appearance. Fanner’s Travelling Needs
meet all your week-end or vacation reqire-
ments ; materials are dependable and values,
in every instance, keen.
TV5 —"Victor” Rug, pure Australian
wool, size 72 x 60 ins. 4 lbs. weight; in
grey and brown mixtures ... ... 21/-
TV6—Famous "Victor” Case, solid cow-
hide on strong frame, well made, light in
weight. Inches ... 20, 22, 24, 26
Prices ... 40 1-, 44/6, 48/6, 52/6
We Pay Carriage only to the extent of 5 per cent,
on all ravelling Requisites.
FARMER’S
‘G’Ae Store for fJ&Cen.
> n
The Zenith
of Fashion.
Whilst every Shave Gown
or Tailor Suit creates an
atmosphere of perfect har-
mony, at the same time it
attains the zenith of
fashion. By the Shave
system of model fitting any
style of gown is faultlessly
made without fittings.
SHAVE
Ladies' Tailors,
Dressmakers,
Centreway, MELBOURNE,
Melt onian
IT 1 HIGH-CLASS
{SPECIALTIES
Creams
?r<!
Pastes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANC LTD.
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne.
fg
E. DROWN @ SON 3 LONDON
AGENCIES • ALL - OVER • THE • WORLD
VISITORS.— Don't miss
one of the city’s greatest attractions—the
“PAVILION,” Sydney’s Restaurant de luxe, Circular Quay.
MCLBOURNE
CHATTER
Warner's
Rust Proof
Corsets
The Caulfield Cup scored its usual
weather; every year it manages to bag a
blue, breezy, sunny day. The croAvd was
enormous; there Avas such a throng that
flimsy frocks were torn, thin shoes tram-
pled on and tempers ruined. There is not
another Caulfield Cup like it on record.
Feminine fashions got no show at all.
The G.-G. came out in the palest grey,
and Lady Helen Avas in a dress of the same
color. Captain Duncan and the new aide,
Neil Kilby, Avere in the thick of the crowd,
aud in one tussle even tall genthelp “Bee”
Clifford had his buff boxer hat bauged down
over his eyes. Some of the casualties hap-
pened Avhile the Government House party
battled its way from its box to lunch with,
the stewards.
Edmund Barton was there, aud the
Everard Brownes and Captain and Mrs.
Staugliton. Mrs. Woodforde Avore befringed
putty color. Miss Mandeville Avas in black.
Mrs. Merson Cooper imitated a certain big
Australian beetle with cross bars of black
and blue. Captain McKinnon’s bride Avore
lemon color over ivory Avhite. Mrs. Mills
got some bougainvillea-red effects into her
gown. There Avere crowds of quaint para-
sols bobbing above the waves. Some of
them, are armed with huge ivory rings at the
ferrule aud are dangerous weapons. Para-
sols now are either the kind of motor
shade that fits into a handbag or a sort of
ribbed circus tent. Mrs. Norman Bayles
brandished one of the latter sort. Mrs.
Russell Clarke wore the frilly chiffon floun-
ces that she fancies. Mrs. de Jersey Grut
had her just-returned son to help her through
the crowd.
The women, vieAving the damage to their
flimsy gowns, groaned when they thought of
the, bills still to come in. If the Caulfield
Cup was like this, Avhat would the Melbourne
Cup croAvd be?
The naA’al sports—an annual affair that
lapsed during the war—broke out again this
C' ll '- _ They were held at Williamstown on
(lie Naval Depot sports-grouuds. The G.G.
was there, with Lady Helen in a tiny
floral hat and dove-grey dress. Flying-
genthelp Neil Kilby was in khaki. Admiral
Grant, the bluff neAV chief, trod the grass
like a quarter-deck, find Captain Hare, of
the Depot, was host. His young wife had
her neAV baby on vieAV. Many of the officers
made it a family outing, Captain Ramsay
and his wife bringing their toddlers. Sur-
geon-commander Ellis’s bride Avas in trous-
seau togs of pale grey. The refreshments
were seiwed in marquees. Mrs. Leslie Stuart
went out with her two children, and Cap-
tain Lionel Robinson strolled about and over-
people explaining: “There’s the man
the Kaiser priced at a thousand, dead or
alive.” An exclusive quarter-deck circle of
armchairs was set in front of the stand.
Petty officers aud their wives rejoiced several
paces to the rear.
The Hon. Michael Scott and his Avife
Cecilia, Avho is divorcing him, were Avell
known in Melbourne eight or ten years ago.
She AA’as a plump, pretty little thing (one
of the good-looking Bruton girls, of Syd-
ney) ; he was tall and curly-haired, and
built on the lines of the aristocratic hero
of fiction. He was a champion golfer; in
fact, most of his family are in that boat.
His elder brother, Osmund, Avas only just
licked for the amateur championship of
England in 3905, and Michael Avon all sorts
of championships in Australia. When not
golfing in Melbourne or Sydney he lived at
Warragul (Vic.). His father Avas the Earl
of Eldon. No thinking Debretter, by the
way, will confuse this family with that into
which the daughter of Charles Ryan, of
Melbourne—Lady Charles Scott—married.
Her husband, the admiral, was a son of
the Duke of Buccleuch.
The Adrian Knox appointment Avas re-
ceived favorably in Melbourne. It Avas
whispered in the clubs that there was no
soreness on Barton’s part, and that, in fact,
he Avas agreeable to being passed over for
a man Avhose suitability is regarded as
beyond question aud Avho is much younger.
Yet there is a good deal of solid protest
against the practice of disqualifying puisne
Judges Avlien looking for a Chief Justice.
Knox’s selection has now made it certain
rhat Irvine is a fixture. Doubts about that
have been suggested ever since Griffith
announced his intended resignation, though
it was hardly likely that a man of 61 would
relinquish a LIOOO-a-year job with pension
attached, besides the Lieut.-Governorship
and its emoluments (occasionally), for a
£3500-a-year post, involving greater respon-
sibility. with no certainty of a pension.
Now is tin; chance for a story-spinner! A
Toorak dame has presented to the Vic.
National Gallery a pair of silk stockings
said to have been worn by Queen Vic. at
the opening of the big exhibition in Hyde
Park in 1851. From a lady-in-waiting, to
whom they Avere presented, the stockings
were reverentially passed along till they
reached the donor. A riotous imagination,
a wet towel, with drinkables and smokables
within reach, and “The Queen’s Lace Hand-
kerchief” ought not to be in it with the yarn
constructive from this latest material.
The Prince of Wales, if the Waacs of
Victoria have any say in the matter, won’t
follow Senator Bakhap’s advice and marry
an Indian gal, the girls having put in a
claim to be appointed a bodyguard for the
young man when he comes to Australia. Of
course, they won’t be allowed to do it; but
that won’t be Royalty’s fault —not if there
is any truth in the rumors that Billjim has
brought home with him from overseas.
The Chauvel lady, Avife of the Diggers’
director in Palestine, has decided to make
Melbourne her home. She has been away
from Australia for five years, as before
Armageddon her husband Avas Australian
representative at the War Office. Then she
helped ihe Red Cross in Loudon, and it
Avas not until last Christmas that she was
able to reach Egypt and have a second
honeymoon.
Aikman, M.L.C., who is a AA’idower iu
addition to beiug Gaud Mayor-elect, has sen-
tenced his niece, Mrs. W. L. Stein, to a
term of 12 months as Queen Consort.
The lady, who is the Avife of North Mel-
bourne’s chief fireman, has decorativ’e quali-
fications, being a tall, good-looking brunette
Avho can be relied upon not to dress like the
draAving-room suite in uncle’s coffee-palace.
She has been enabled to rise to her pros-
pective dizzy eminence through having taken
the precaution of selecting as her mother
the late Mrs. Aikman’s sister, Mrs. 11.
Ussher.
The new Gaud Mayor has established a
precedent which is expected to trouble him
sorely before his term has expired. Being
called upon to find a reason for bumping out
Cabena by the same methods that Cabena
had employed to bump out his predecessor,
he said he was in favor of a yearly tenure
of the proud and ancient office. He believes
in the billet going round the Avhole circle of
councillors, so that each in turn may sport
the gilded chain and think of himself as “My
lord.” In short, he is pledged to retire from
office without a struggle at the end of a
year, on the understanding that his succes-
sors Avill do likewise. As next October
draws near Aikman will have to insist on
another fellow relieving him of his job;
Avhile liis brother-councillors will note his
signs of anguish as the day of abdication
draws near.
Aided and abetted by his handsome niece,
Airs. Stein, J. G. Aikman proposes to make
the pace a cracker during his forthcoming
term as Gaud Mayor. He is already issuing
invitations for his inaugural dinner next
month, at Avhich food will be provided for
close on 1000.
The Clive Baillieux lately gave a debu-
tantes’ dance at their Toorak house.
Daughter Mary Avas the chief deb. A big
marquee flapped in the garden, and its
“dream of a floor” was highly approved
by the dancers. The supports of the pavi-
lion were wreathed Avith roses, and it opened
on to the rose garden where all tile stand-
ards had their blooms lit up with shaded
electric bulbs. The supper was of the brand
that has snipe on the menu, and the best
vintages of champagne. Debutante Mary
forswore the usual white, and admired, but
did not carry, a big bouquet of lily-of-the-
valley sent by a neighbor. Her posy was
made of roses and forget-me-nots, and she
wore a wallpaper silk of oyster-grey, striped
with embroidered blossoms in colors. Mrs.
Baillieu Avore a AA’onderful grey gown that
made the other matrons turn up their eyes
and forget all their conversation. Daughter
Mary scored a string of pearls from her
rich bachelor uncle “Prince” Baillieu, who
finds noAv that he has created an extrava-
gant precedent, as there are numerous nieces
in the clan. The Murray Mortons’ daughter
Avas a debutante at the party. She was
decked in georgette and silver, and hung
Avith crystal embroidery like a blazing white
chandelier.
One of the jokes of the exclusive Bache-
lors’ Ball is that 36 (or so) people “ac-
cepted” who were never iimted. They pro-
bably kneAV that the bachelor in charge of
the cards is a very busy diplomat. The
dodge was clever, but the tickets are going
out with great care.
Diana Wilson’s party at Meuzies’ the
other Monday was a bright occurrence.
Walter Kirby carolled in Italian, and a
little timid jazzing went on. Brother and
sister Dix were present, also Louise Dyer.
Mrs. Barry Thonmson looked demure in a
fascinating black hat, and there was a lady
with a walking-stick which she used to prod
the Avaiter when she wanted an ice. Diana
hostessed in a champagne-colored georgette
frock.
Son-in-law Herbert Brookes’s appeal for
letters or documents written by Alfred
Deakiu should bring in a good crop of in-
teresting results, for this amiable Austra-
lian always preserved the courtesies of life
in a very charming way. One woman trea-
sures a letter written by him on the birth
of her first child. It is characteristically
graceful and delicate, yet full of raillery.
This photo of Miss Rose Quong presents
her as the Citizen’s Wife in the recent pro-
duction of “The Knight of the Burning
Pestle,” by the Mermaid Play Society. In that
most interesting highbrow entertainment the
citizen (Malcolm Skurrie) and his xvife
were 16th century identities, and the ability
of Miss Quong came as a revelation to any
who had not previously seen her on the
stage. To all avlio are familiar Avith occa-
sional performances of “highbrow stuff” it
came as a matter of course. One is always
struck by _ Miss Rose Quong's work. She
was conspicuously effective in a performance
of “The Trojan Women,” a Melbourne Uni-
versity matter which had Marshall Hall’s
music to help it at the Athenaeum Hall, on
the night when the news of the Lusitania out-
rage gave all the Huns and their sympath-
isers in the audience, a swelling in the chest.
A year or two previously, on the same plat-
form, she had recited an Ibsen poem with
remarkable grace of diction and action, as
well as dramatic force. A born artist, and,
among Melbourne amateurs, in a class by
hersel?.
It would be interesting if the letters
which passed between Dealt in and Oom Bill
Lyne in different crises were published.
Lyne liked his frequent colleague so well
that he often talked to him like a Dutch
uncle. “Oom Bill” didn’t get his name for
nothing.
After his long illness, Arthur Robinson,
the Solicitor-General, made his first social
appearance on Saturday at the Caulfield
Cup meeting. It was a good start; for
during the afternoon, as representative of
his brother Lionel and William Clarke, joint-
owners of Lucknow, he took delivery of hue
gold cup from Lady Helen.
Looking well after his sojourn of nearly
seven years, in England, Peter Mcßride, the
Agent-General, has returned to gather poli-
tical and official strength. Some demonstra-
tion in his honor is likely, and a further
extension of his term beyond February may
safely be predicted. In any case he is go-
ing back to London.
Naval-surgeon Ellis, who is to look after
the sailors’ health at the Naval Depot, is
established with his bride at dusty old Wil-
liamstown. They have a flat in a very tall
house whence they can view blue bits of
Altona Bay, with the ancient Cerberus in
the background.
While Billy Hughes was hitting the Peace
Conference table, Mrs. Billy was having her
hair attended to. It looks several shades
fairer, and she has learnt some pretty ways
of grooming it.
Young Max Valentine, son of the telegraph
chief, is off to Virginia (U.S.A.) to find
out how to grow tobacco. When he has got
the secret he intends to come back and apply
it in Australia.
Pitt Cobbett, a solid old authority on in-
ternational law, died at Hobart a few days
ago. When the Challis Law School was
founded at Sydney in 1890 he was imported
as the first professor. For 20 years he gave
students the benefits of his deep knowledge,
retiring in 3910. The next year he settled
in Tasmania, a lonely man, for he never
married. He was 05 when the book was
closed.
May Riley, daughter of the bandmaster
who waves the baton at V.A.T.C. meetings,
has returned to Melbourne after putting in
a long spell of service with John Bull’s Air
Board. She went through a course of
mechanics, was appointed an examiner of
aeroplane parts, made several flights over
London, and was the first Aussie woman to
loop the loop.
Adelaide tells all:
After a long playless interval the Repertory
Theatre staged “Hedda Gabler” at the King’s
Theatre on Saturday. The Government House party in-
cluded, besides his Ex., Commander and Mrs. Brace-
girdle, the Ernest Goods and Mr. Winser.
Grand opera at the rate of six different shows a
week doesn’t leave us much time for anything else,
and there has been a slump in dances. Afternoon
shows are mostly meetings or money-raising devices
—among the latter a croquet gymkana at Mrs. P.
J. Lawrence’s, at Walkerville, on Tuesday, with the
proceeds for the *Dove Memorial Hall. On Thursday
there was a garden-party at the Semaphore Tennis
Club’s grounds, for the School for Mothers. Miss
Ilornabrook (one of the school’s founders and keen-
est workers as sec. and treasurer) has gone, and her
place has been taken by Dorothy Gilbert, a valuable
war-worker during the last five years.
The Babies’ Home at Walkerville presents a wholly
creditable balance-sheet, showing that the “house-
hold expenses” (rent and wages apart) of keeping 13
babies for 12 months amounted to only £l5B. At
that rate no home heed be without one.
Lieut. Russell Dumas, son of C. M. R. Dumas, of
Mount Barker, is engaged to Muriel, daughter of the
Oliver Rogers, of Narracoorte.
The Archdeacon Clampetts’ daughter has accepted
a ring from Tom, only son of Mrs. T. R. Bowen.
The S.A. Whites have returned from Bananaland
and the Ornithological Conference, full of enthusiasm
for it and their subsequent trip to Stradbrook Island
and the Bunya Mountains. At the Conference the
S. Australian bird-lover was prime mover in the
suggestion that Macquarie Island should be secured
as a sanctuary for the fauna of Antarctica, by the
Government or the Ornithological Union leasing it.
Owen Smyth, founder and hon. secretary of this
State’s branch of the Royal Society of St. George, i-
to have a presentation next month before lie leaves
for England.
Adelaide is crowded out. The other day 10 sol-
diers, with English brides, returned by the Main.
They tramped the city trying to find accommodation,
and then gave it best and returned to the Cheer-up
Hut, where they had been entertained earlier in
the day, and asked for a shake down. With
the aid of lounges and cushions sleeping arrange-
ments were made for the part}’. When the Hut
workers went next morning to tackle the pile of
dishes left over from the previous night they found
the brides had done the work for them. On a pre-
vious occasion two couples had to seek shelter at
the police-station, and were accommodated for the
night in cells.
The Shelton-Johnson nuptials at St. Pae -
on Thursday night were the most impressive
seen in the catliedTal for several years. Tile
very youthful pair were backed up by re-
markably good-looking groomsmen and maids
in full evening dress and black bats.
So slashing was the attack made by Dame
Cowper on feminine dress and the wearers
thereof that many looked up and took noth; 1 ,
neglecting for a moment or two the doings
of Hughes and Ryan, the bankruptcy that
is “bound - ’ to follow the payment, of a war
gratuity, the Mary Violet Macpherson ab-
duction, and other absorbing things. “Skirt?
clinging cerement-like and hitching up at
the knees and strangling the steps.” “silk
swathing and flesh-revealing hose,” “eg"
boiler-heeled shoes that produce a stilt-like
gait” were just, a few of the things held up
to scorn. Every woman thinks the other is
the galled jade and is leaving her to wince.
Portia Geach’s foot was on her native
heath when she came back to Melbourne wit!
her paintings the other day. In her student
years, at the Gallery, she had ouite a reputa-
tion for Ideas, and her chums spoke of her
as a girl whp was going to do things. One
of the things she did in due course was to
give a show at the out-of-the-way Guildhall,
in Swanston-street. where her most attractive
picture was a full-length portrait of her
sister, an unconventional piece of work in all
respects. It was not long afterwards that
the Geach family went to Sydney, and then
the Shakspearean name of the girl with the
ideas became a fading Melbourne memory out-
side her circle of friends. Now it is restored
in association with mural decorative schemes
and the exhibition which Miss Geach is hold-
ing at the Athenaeum Hall. What an ear-
haunting name it is! Phrtia Geach!
There’s hardly enough Art in the world to
do it justice.


"i'
•’ v
llil'ij:
m
--x*. •
V . \ . • y^vSl
> •-..\ *\-j -•
&&&§§?
_ <3cs»
o? 3 1
Ss. \*
k^V-*4?{£SV3iTl.
,\
tg
52
SSIS
■ • W-'
.-■ •■■ ••?V-'.v'.«?V^igSb
>H‘
IS
'm&m
*Bm
*G»
&•$?
\>i
ffiW
s&
%
A
%j&£OF
<?§&
sis
<*§
eg*
•e: ,"»•*>
f?i^Si(O y
V.*W:
i«£*&
(§=*
&*s£&££■
yjet
WP?
SV
«&
i?:?
f. IT »' rAtf-i'AitfsvHsflae
t&^reSfiflp
m&;
Wi.f
m
-<*•/-*
KH
3$
«
5M3
»* ‘JwT;
v-i* ‘-*-7;
A’Sh-fg
’<o
-7;X
v’ r ?
■Lr.i'?Z*iWk‘fs iS?
n
Q^ 7
R’/^fj
Sft
• ' fer - >••• '■ ~ ■' ■< • •<■:• I-MtS-v/tos. i$
■ *Bpv ;.■?■’ ■...'■•■■' t.- st■<■<• ft
If/ 7 .••*-... v , ~■ '.' ■ *3
tVA
r/V in
m
•\ i *f.T*Oi.VV
r:' \£?S&3g£9t
>X--- » fra
•.': V •■:..' *■' -■' # *;t
• ;^i»nniiiiflnaK :
■nr- "
MtTS’A*“M sv’fi-r'
mi
i
ii
IP
Vv-JWr 3 f; .. .’
NS
lifi "-| H ■■■•—■— * 1 r npii| ii, t * v"- Vv.v*,** ViA V-"
F *> >. 1* f'ji • 4*4 | *
•■,. *: { .Jj
giiawß
««??
-•Tiy-ato&j. ..
tvs
vs?
CB
AX>
>!'•>
vV
■«<r
sp
j#
«tyr>i
4^4-^
mm
»e»
•&s£&>
m
«3K
A®*
.r>r
*s^
M
:/ •
■o><
I ?■
W
st*
c
ft-'y i'3
Va
-£^sl
V
fe
511
46
%¥
bS
sesfi!
'
5^
, 1
V?
»/
Are you treading the right track?
THE Tread of the "Boomerang” leaves
in its wake, a track that signifies a
safe return together with comfort
and long mileage. It was designed by
experts, and is constructed of the finest
quality materials, by highly skilled workmen.
The result is a highly efficient tyre of
tough resilient tread —one that has lived up
to, and amply justifies its well-earned title
of “The get-through tyre.**
Do your tyres always get through?
If not, get on the right track —ask your
dealer to fit “ Boomerang " they will
justify your good judgment
Manufactured by
The Barnet Glass Rubber Co. Ltd.
All States and New Zealand
Founders of the Rubber Industry in Australasia
••
» s
’■ Y/ • •
v '
.
rr: v::v **. .
>-j * • . . .*• *
•• i
i
f
•I
re &


Under
Royal
warrant
df
George V
CHAMPAGNE
Charles Heidsieck
asi: mm
WEIS
Champagne
UiarlesHeidsiecK
Reims
(ijj) >»&***
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
&
LACKPbLISH
tS^
‘■EATmCR'FROH
ybRrATtNXULACE KmBOX
Dui
Melbourne
Sid
yOU?
pi n
111, i HJ
m
a
The
Hitherto
Unmendable
“MAC”
CAN EASILY
BE REPAIRED
WITH
Mend-a.-Tea.jr
Thai wonderful new material which mends without stitches
mends almost invisibly and soquicklv. Don’t discard your
Mac if it is torn or unseamed. MEND-A-TEAR WILL
MAKE IT LIKE NEW. *>* ~
Sample Outfit post free on
receipt of 1/4.
Sole Wholesale Distributors, for New South
Wales and Queensland —
Bennett 8 Barkell Ltd.
Meagher Street, SYDNEY.
gd
fg
PARIS
CARTERS
No metal
can touch you^
Socks are always neat and
trim when Paris Garters are
worn.
Look for the Kneeling Figure
and Oval Trade Mark —your
protection against unsatis-
factory substitutes.
Obtainable all Mercers.
Stein & Co., Makers, Chicago, New Yoik.
Indents and Wholesale:
Walter Cathro Pty. Ltd., 50 York St., Sydney.
The Dainty Afternoon Teas served at the “PAVILION,” Circular Quay, Sydney, are patronised by the best people. Orchestral performances daily.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Mrs. Adrian Knox, the wife of the new
Federal C.J., was a Miss Lawson, and is a
grand-daughter of the explorer who crossed
the Blue Mountains with Wentworth and
Blaxland. Her sister married Colonel Bab-
ington, of the 16th Lancers, who was com-
mandant in M.L. for some time and is now
a much-decorated general. Willie Lawson,
their brother, was a well-known figure in
Sydney and Melbourne a decade or more ago.
He left for London one day, ostensibly to
buy a new outfit of sqcks, and has hovered
between there, Ireland and Paris ever since.
Three men well known socially are in
the running for the Presidency of the A.J.C.
Committee vacated by the hoisting of Adrian
Knox to the Chief Justiceship of Australia.
Sam Hordern has only burst into the social
light since his daughters “came out.” Before
that his vast business and his home shared
his very quiet life. He looks about 30,
whatever his real age may be, and dances
like a youth of 20. He and his wife, who
was a See, daughter of the one-time Pre-
mier, are now about the most persistent and
lavish dance-givers in Sydney. Harry
Chisholm and his wife, who was Maggie
Mackellar, do very little entertaining. All
their offspring are married and dispersed.
She only got back from a visit to her
daughter, Lady Loughborough, after a spell
of Red Crossing the other day. The third
possibility is , Colin Stephen, of Stephen,
.Taques and Stephen. He is a son of the
late Seppy Stephen ; he was one of the most
brilliant amateur horsemen in the State up
to five or six years ago, when he gave up
race-riding and concentrated on polo; and
lie has owned horses. He married a Knox
and lives quietly in the large house which
he built for himself 20 years ago on Bellevue
Hill.
Not only have the other States gone mad
over our little Master and his orchestra (in
a fortnight they handed over £6OOO to keep
the fiddles and the brasses and the baton
going), but Alfred Hill brings back tidings
from Maoriland that the tartan isles are so
eager to see and hear them that it has drawn
the bawbees from its sporran to. the extent
of another £6OOO, and offers this as a guar-
antee. Victoria, threatens a separate
orchestra ; and maybe that’s what Verbrug-
ghen had in his mind when he talked the
other day of the approaching end of his five-
years’ iob in Sydney, and suggested chat
whether he would accept a re-engagement
or not depended upon terms and conditions.
It’s almost cheerful to find a musician now
and then who can talk business as well as
art. Perhaps the years the Belgian spent
in Glasgie are responsible.
The “old girls” turned up in battalions
to Mrs. Garvin’s presentation on Saturday
evening at the Girls’ High, where for 35
years she helped Miss Australia to grow up
into fine womanhood. Mayoress Richards,
an old girl, was in the chair, and Ethel
Turner made the presentation, which was
a cheque accompanied by a bouquet of gold
and brown irises—the colors under which
the school has won honors in sport and
study. Mrs. Garyin spoke with pride of
the pupils who had left the school to dis-
tinguish themselves in the arts and sciences
and in the home. Then the peach-bloom
decorated old' schoolroom became a kalei-
doscope of happy reunions and merry remin-
iscences.
The civic archives are to be engraved with
the 820 names of the workers who formed
the Mayoress’s Red Cross Sewing Guild. As
many of the 820 as could get there were in
the assembly room of the Education Build-
ing last week to live over again the days
before the Guild’s work-basket snapped on
the Armistice lock. Mrs. Alfred Lee read
the report of the years when the drawing-
room of the Town Hall hummed to the Song
of the Shirt. The Cullen lady had a word
to say that was endorsed by Matron Gould
and Sister Foster. There were four titles
present, and the Governor’s lady, after
mutual purrings, handed Mrs. Richards a
suede-bound illuminated address, with a nice
healthy dove of peace perching on a Red
Cross' or in its neighborhood.
George Castles, back in Sydney after four
years of war service, first in the tunnelling
corps and afterwards, when a bullet and
some gas had put him off the fighting list,
as one of the organisers of back-of-the-lina
entertainments, has a great story to tell of
theatrical “props” picked up by the way.
It was in a little French town, after a
Fritz evacuation, that they came upon
rolls of German paper-cloth. This they
quickly converted to charming mauve and
gold wings and backcloths and curtains and
carpets, and with two electric plants these
made their show the brightest thing the boys
had seen for many a long day. But it
wasn’t all makeshift. They thought nothing
of paying £3O or £35 for the dresses of
their women impersonators; Morris Angel
of Shaftsbury-avenue designed many of their
costumes. And the stage laundry often
travelled back 60 or 70 miles so that the
frillies might be fascinatingly spotless. One
morning when they were trying over one of
their potted plays in a roofless building at
Armentieres, a thin, pale-faced youngster
came and looked, and the boys discovered
that their visitor was Captain Windsor,
Prince of Wales, more intimately known to
them as “Teddy Woodbine.”
Fondest of all is George of the story of
Torzillo’s harp. When Torzillo left Aus-
tralia, like the minstrel boy, he carried his
harp with him. Later on in E’rance a bullet
got Torzillo and a shell got the harp. While
Torzillo was recuperating, George Castles,
thinking what an attraction a harpist would
be to the combination, got the Minstrel
added to the players. But a Minstrel with-
out an instrument could only take tickets or
attend to the box plan. One day they went
to liheims, and there in the Opera House
they found a ruined, unstringed harp. Tor-
zillo flew to it, and for days labored over it.
Pie got bits of shell- and gun-metal and
scraps of wood and wire, and one evening,
amid the ruins of what had been an opera
house, he drew his fingers over the strings
and it poured out its soul in “The Last Rose
of Summer.” Then it was that Torzillo, at
the harp, and George, singing ballads, became
a feature of the entertainments, and they
were authorised to go to Paris and buy a
new instrument. Was there such a thing as
a harp in Paris? It seemed not. Finally,
on the strength of Amy’s and Bouhy’s names,
George and Torzillo were conducted to a
secret cellar, and there Torzillo found the
harp of wonderful tone that went the rest
of the way with him. But it was the old
ruined harp he brought back to Australia.
Here is Mrs.
Hungerford
McMahon, one of
the Socialist candi-
dates for a coming
Parliamentary elec-
tion ; and if we can
take socialism on her
face value, it should
have a rush of fol-
lowers. Born in
Australia, the think-
ing girl was edu-
cated at Norman-
hurst, in Ashfield.
She has the silver
tongue, a heart big
enough to embrace
all d o w ntrodden
humanity, a charm-
ing taste in dress,
and a nice discrimination in art values.
Any Sunday you may see her in the Domain,
a graceful and elegant figure, handing out
pamphlets on the cause nearest her heart.
Miss Strickland and sister Cecilia have
made their curtsey at Court. The family
has been living at Sizergh Castle, in West-
moreland, but will get back to Malta for
the winter.
A presswoman has a perennial gallery-
ticket to life’s parties. So used is she to
looking on and seeing the game without
taking part in it that when she herself
becomes the partie of the party, she asks
in a bewildered way, “Where are the
guests?” It begets the sensation that is born
of a dream within a dream. Last week saw
the press, not merely skipping past the door-
keeper with a nod, but on two occasions
taking the stage. The first occasion on
which the pumice was used to scrub out
the last vestige of inlc-smudge was at the
dinner-party given by Surgeon Maitland’s
wife. It was a crimson-rose decorated
round table at Usher’s that seated the
gathering, and it proved one thing—-that your
modern writing miss may be a blue stocking,
but the hose is silk and drawn on without a
wrinkle. Then there was the informal after-
noon tea-drinking which Vera Pearce gave
to the scribe-ma’ams in city and suburbs.
They were all there, from Mary Gilmore and
Mrs. Fotheringhame to the girl who still
looks upon an editor as a cross between
Jupiter and Billy Hughes. By some for-
tunate chance Gerald Marr Thompson found
himself the lonely male among the girls, but
came out unruffled. Yera, handsome in her
black turn-out, openly exulted over the pros-
pect of Christmas in Sydney, with every
minute “off” spent in the surf. Dark lilac
and pale lilac and pink sweet-pea were
everywhere in the room. Hugh D. looked in
for a moment, and then came the camera
man to take a flashlight photograph of the
cats replete with cream. And a flashlight
photograph at four o’clock in the afternoon
is as exhilarating an experience as being pro-
posed to before breakfast on a winter morn-
ing during a coal strike.
Father Piquet had a word to say (some-
thing over an hour it took him to say it)
on the French Alliance that St. Pat’s saw
last week when Joseph Flipo—he bought
Australian wool for France in pre-war days,
and when the eommotion started went out
after German scalps—married Madeleine
Lamerand, whose dad is President of the
Alliance Franqaise. In addition to the
usual bridal allowance of satin and floating
effects, the tall, fair girl wore a rose-point
bordered veil, and her Joseph wore his hori-
zon-blue uniform, with its captain’s insignia.
Bride’s sister Marguerite and the two
Playoust girls in pink georgette sleuthed
the bride to the altar, and had the charming-
addition of another blue uniform, worn by
best-man Charlie Gaertner, in their group.
The ceremony and Father Piquet’s address
were in the tongue of Clemenceau’s land, but
the wedding luncheon at the Australia could
be understood in all languages.
Some notes from the North :
Brisbane drank several cups of tea lately in honor
of Nerida Brown, who sailed for Singapore in the
Montoro. A tall man and a wedding-ring await her.
Harry Swain, who left here as a private in the
original 9th Battalion, has returned a major with
the M.O. and a little English bride with a beautiful
complexion. One of the first to greet him was
another -9th man whose life he saved on Gallipoli.
Eddie Cahill and George Brooke have left for
a Shipman-conducted tour of “the East.” Two
days before they sailed they gave a farewell
recital which crowded the Centennial Hall. They’re
a good-natured pair. A few weeks ago a busy
presswoman, who was doing Peace Loan work, was
asked to attend a welcome home to soldiers in a
small country town in order to make an appeal.
The committee added a plea for “some musicians.”
She asked Cahill and Brooke, and both went and
performed for a grateful audience of not more than
50. Incidentally, the listeners parted up £220 for
the Loan.
Our Winifred Burston gave a sparkling Chopin re-
cital lately, and when it was all over musical
Brisbane filed out purring.
Talking of musicians, young Archie Day, a Bris-
bane boy of 17, is going to add to the reputation
of our State. At the end of the year he departs
for London.
Toowoomba has now a Convalescent Home for
Soldiers —the Simla, supported by the Red Cross.
Lady Goold-Adams went up to open it.
The Western 'Women War Workers send out with
mingled joy and regret their final balance-sheet and
report. A very creditable one it is, too, showing
£1234 spent during the year. The Association hopes
that on the strong foundation it has laid another
organisation may arise to help cope with the after-
war problems that Digger has to face.
The 6tli and 7th Light Horse had their
re-union at the Oxford Hall, with two Brig.-
Generals —Charley Cox and Onslow —to 500
men. The boys and the committee want to
do it all over again every year, and Captain
Garnock and Lieut. Waddell have the list-
ing of members.
If you have a spare cow, or ox, or a neigh-
bor’s fowl in your garden, put a tag on the
animal and address it to Havilah, the latest
kiddies’ home taken over by the Church of
England Homes and Hostels Committee.
Havilah tops the heights between Norman-
hurst and Wahroonga. It is 650 ft. higher
than the Pacific, and the youngsters can
sight the ocean from their bedroom windows:
away out beyond Cronulla it flashes its blue-
ness at them, but their outlook on Dubbo
and .the Bed Kangaroo is unfortunately
cramped by the Blue Mountains. The Nor-
thern Suburbs are busy furnishing- the
Home: the Heber Bode lady and Mrs. James
Ashton .have already gathered in beds, cots,
a buggy, a piano, a perambulator and an ice
chest; the boys of Barker College are fur-
nishing the cutlery, the Wahroonga Grammar
School a bed, and beds are the gifts of
Abbotsleigh and Eldinhope. Mrs. Edward
Knox, and the terror of the Peace Ball
vandals, Mrs. Albert Littlejohn and Rose
Merivale, are working hard in the children’s
cause.
On December 10 the kindergarten kiddies
will give a Christmas -party at Sydney Town
Hall. A tree as magic as Jack’s beanstalk
will meantime grow in every kindergarten,
and then bloom at the Town Hall with
pretty gifts made by baby fingers for mum
and dad and big brother and sister. It is
a clinking idea.
Science and industry were united when
Janet Agnes Guthrie, only daughter of Pro-
fessor Guthrie, of Neutral Bay, married
Alan Lee, only son of the H. S. Holts, or
Darling Point. St. Mark’s was a floral
bower for the wedding. Ruth Roxburgh
topped her powder-blue georgette with a
black tulle hat to act as bridesmaid, and
the 7th Light Horse was represented by
best-man Major Williams. The party was
held at the Holts’ Darling Point residence,
which was a mass of gorgeous blooms from
Moss Vale and Orange gardens.
Another engagement —pretty Lyndal Solo-
mon to her good-looking doctor Eakin. who
looks after the cuts and bruises of Cockatoo
Island.
A noticeable competitor at the big pot-
hunters’ rifle-meeting at Randwick was Ella
Mitchell, the Peak Hill champion. Ella has
been shooting with the Peak Hill Rifle Club
for the past three
years, and in the
quarterly competi-
tions generally man-
ages to run off with
good prizes, notwith-
standing that the
mere males of the
club are no mean
shots. At Randwick
the young Diana (or-
is it Cupid?) wore a
jaunty khaki blouse
and skirt and a rifle-
man’s slouch hat.
And never once had
she to do the dirty
work of cleaning out
her own rifle after
shoots! In fact,
competition for this
task was as keen among the men as their
rivalry for the King’s Prize. Ella got into
the prize-list on several occasions, but did
not manage to haul off anything big. How-
ever, there is always next year; meantime,
Ashby shows this photograph of the pretty
sporting girl.
Tlie Paramount people have given £5OO
worth of tickets to the Peace Offering Syd-
ney Hospital Fund. The tickets operate any
time between November 2 and December.
The Maitland and Fuller ladies and Mrs.
Nelson are organising the sale of the tickets,
and the girl who sends in the best returns
gets a gold wristlet-watch. The 'Govern-
ment doubles the amount, so there will be
another £lOOO to help stock up the medi-
cine chest. And if some of the girls can t
get more than Is. for a shilling ticket they
have lost their punch.
Some time ago S’Rupert sent his agents
to New Guinea to look for rare and beau-
tiful orchids for his Potts Point garden
They came home with some treasures, and
tlie' Clarke hothouse now holds what is be-
lieved to be the only captive black orchid in
the world.
Early next month will see the Antill-Sar-
good nuptials. The bridegroom arrives by
the Niagara at the end of October; after
the wedding he turns round and faces Eng-
land with his bride.
The King’s Schbol old boys held their
long-postponed dance on Friday in Padding-
ton Town Hall, which was pale-blue and
white for the occasion. The flapper, the
near-flapper and the school shields were the
mainstay of the party, with .a dash of mother
and father, old boys not so very old, and old
boys who had just started to wear the adjec-
tive. Headmaster Baker’s wife Was among
the goodlookers of the evening. The Adrian
Knox lady came in mingled pale-blue and
black, and Mrs. Walter Marks was sleek in
black velvet. Nearly 700 others were also
present.
Sisters and cousins and aunts swarmed in
trams and motors to the Cricket Ground on
Friday and Saturday, to shriek encourage-
ment to youthful Great Public School gladi-
ators. Bright frocking and chattering to
match kept the crowded stands a-buzz ; while
headmasters and prelates browsed together
on the sward and ruminated on many things.
The Apollos! struck the lyre at the Con-
servatorium last week when, Alfred Hill not
yet being back from Maoriland, Arnold Mote
led the troubadours to victory. Baritone
George Grimm sang deep-sea songs and some
old-fashioned melodious love lyrics as the
insisted-upon encores. Jeanette Ethelstone
flung her trills and top notes about in Italian
and French, but has not yet, apparently;
learned to sing in English; and Laurence
Godfrey Smith did what he liked with the
piano, and bore the tumult of applause with
a great meekness.
Maude Beatty leaves Australia on Novem-
ber 12 by the Ventura to marry Sydney G.
Kibble, of Buenos Ayres. She retires into
private life on her husband’s estancia.
Mrs. Edwin Ryrie had a house at Maiden-
head, on the Thames, all last summer. She
had the entire T. 11. Kelly family staying
with her for a while —one of their last re-
unions before Tom went to Eton, and Beat-
rice, the eldest girl, to a boarding-school.


1
m
ii m
* A ■
e.-
ffi S 3
.
m
m
f
if
MSliP®! ill
ill
msm
'wmmwm.
mmm.
i
9
4
FOR UNDERGROUND
INSTALLATION
WITH DUCTS
FOR STATION
AND FACTORY
These Cables
are made in aVARIETY
of TYPES with Single
or Multiple Conductors
and every style of finish.
" BULLETIN 49301”
fully describes these Cables.
WRITE FOR A COPY
'ipfr
■ '^sS
gwip
y
se
FOR BRUSH HOLDERS
AND APPARATUS
FOR UNDERGROUND
INSTALLATION
WITHOUT DUCTS
FOR
MINE SHAFTS
WE CAN ALSO SUPPLY YOUR REQUIREMENTS IN G.M. A. CABLES,
BINDING WIRES, ETC
fefß>giißiit«Blßanga
Wentworth Avenue
SYDNEY
C r. of" Queen 'E* Little Collins pts
MELBOURNE
AGENTS:
ADELAIDE. S.A. —Charles Atkms 6C Co. Ltd., 88-90 Currie St. TASMANIA—OIiver fie Oliver, HOBART and LAUNCESTON
BRISBANE, Q —The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia Ltd. PERTH, W.A.—Charles Atkins 6C Co. (W.A.) Ltd., "Mazda House."
(E.S.C.A.), Comer Edward and Charlotte Sts. 894 Hay Street.
NEW ZEALAND—The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd., AUCKLAND, CHRISTCHURCH, DUNEDIN, WELLING fON


9
A SURE way to
ide n t ify a
good Collar
is to look for the
name PELA CO on
it. IVhen you find
that mark of
quality your collar-
troubles are over.
The shape illus-
tr at ed is the
"Napier." It com-
bines comfort with
a snappiness of style that is
appreciated by men of taste.
Good Mercers every where sell Pelaco
Collars , Shirts and Pyjamas.
COLLARS
Made in Austtaha
“THERE’S MONEY IN THE PEN."
is
m
Ssr.rwr
The above
is the titled
of our book-
let, which
tells about
the possibilities
of Drawing—both
as, a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
by HARRY J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
difference between
learning to COPY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains, in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
penny stamps
to-day for a
copy of this
booklet—•
“THERE’S
MONEY
IN
THE
PEN.”
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
153 Waltham Building*, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY.
Mrs. Jack Crookes,
late of the Loungers’ Club, has taken
premises at
EQUITABLE PLACE,
off 328 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE,
where her well-known artistry
will be turned to good account
in the tasteful arrangement of
flowers and foliage at “Kay’s”
Floral Studios.
Three-Bladed Stock Knife —For skinning,
castrating and foot-rot.
NEST Brand, made by Southern and Richardson, Shef-
field, England, Post Free 12/6
HAMMER Brand, . made by New York Knife Co.
Post Free 10/6
CATTLE KNIFE (3 blades), spear-point blade, cas-
trating and foot-rot, Post Free 12/6
Two-Bladed Pocket Knife, nest Brand, a
popular Sheffield make, one blade thin skinning or
wide skinning, other ordinary style, Post Free 7/-
Useful Tobacco Knife, 2 blades, Post Free 6/-
Manufacturers’ Selling Agency, 8 Spring St., Sydney.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
m
WHAT A DIP
There’s many a man who likes®
big dip in the seat of his saddle,
and this is the saddle to suit im#
The'BOULIA"
Stocß Saddle.
This saddle is one of our high-grade productions, and o
is making our reputation for saddles all over Australasi .
dip measures about 5 inches, and yet the seat is P
comfortable. The pads are set well up along the rider's 8
and over the stirrup bars, giving perfect security. lne
our best-quality “Fouright,” steel-plated. The P-p l^ l ‘
favorite broad leather sides extending beyond the flaps, a
fittings included are folded girth, bevelled leathers ai
nickel 3-bar stirrups.
£l2/17/6
Freight Free for Cash with Order to any
N.s.W. Port or Station on the
Railway System-
SEND YOUR HEIGHT AND WEIGHT WITH ORDER.
Write for our flue catalogue, showing:—
The “Eongreach”—comfortable as an old shoe.
The “Winton”—the Perfect Stock Saddle.
The “Kemp”—the light saddle to sit a buck in.
And 70 others to choose from.
Walther 8 Stevenson Vh
SADDLERS,
393 George St.,
SYDNEY
"THRIFT”—the National
In these present days of economy, when apparel is required to give the utmost
service,
Bostock’s Shoe Dressings
; £
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
provide an excellent polish, which will increase the wear, preserve the leather and
give a bright and lasting shine. Bostock’s Violo Cream, for Patent Leather and
Glace Kid, is a scientific emulsion of high-grade waxes, which keeps the leather
soft and pliable, thus preventing cracks and insuring added service.
Colors : Black, Brown, Dark Brown, Ox Blood and White. In Tins, Bottles and Tubes.
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
Bostock’s Violo Polishes, Ltd., Sydney.
df
When Julius Caesar Crossed the Alps
He left his baggage at home. When you travel through life with a fountain pen
don’t carry baggage-a filler or a squirt. Get a pen that needs neither-the
ONOIO that fills itself—that does not leak-that cannot Jose its ink on the
journey. A pen that makes writing a pf asure-so perfect is it in every way.
And more—a pen that is unique in its many merits.
Price P7S abo Onoto Valveless for those who do not want a Self-Filling Safety
Pen 12/6 and upwards, at all stationers jewellers and sto es.
THOS. DE LA RUE & CO., LTD., Bunhill Row, London, E.C.
NORMAN BAKER &. LONGHURST, Sydney and Melbourne.
ASK FOR ONOTO INK--BEST FOR AL.L. PENS.
f
■—“^HtPyLEWHITb
With its element of dignity, charm
and distinction, Community Plate
—the superior silver-plated cutlery
—finds its place in almost every
cultured household. For dis-
criminating women, world wide,
recognise its superior quality,
and delight in its period designs—
Adam, Sheraton, Hepplewhite
and Patrician, which are “Com-
munity’s” own, and are not dupli-
cated in other qualities.
The spoons and forks are made to resist
wear by an additional overlay of pure
silver at the base of the bowl, doubling
their life and durability. Guaranteed for
fifty years. On sale at the leading shops.
Oneida Community Ltd.
THE BANKING HOUSE
228 PITT STREET. SYDNEY
Established 1848 Incorporated 1881
at Oneida. N Y., U.S.A.
ALSO MAKERS OF
Oneida Community Reliance Plate
GUARANTEED 25 YEARS
Oneida Community Par Plate
GUARANTEED 10 YEARS
E rAtoN^~
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Timo: But there are probably not so many
electors tied to the chariot wheels of Party as you
assume. And with every election under some form
of effective voting, this paper has hopes that the
number will be less Agnes M.: Well, it was an
Irishman who wrote that, anyway, and a compara-
tively recent visitor to Ireland. As to whether “the
Irish will now never be satisfied until they get com-
plete self-government,” i.e.. outside the British Em-
pire, this paper recalls an interview in Dublin a
year ago. The Sinn Fein Executive had been putting
its case for a Republic before some visitors. “And
what would happen,” asked Anstey, M.11.R. of Aus-
tralia, “if a large measure of Home Rule was
granted to Ireland?” “Then,” said one of the most
prominent of the Sinn Fein leaders, “I’m afraid
the bottom would fall out of our movement for
freedom.” Bill B.: Quite right; the sale of that
stuff will have to be prohibited before the system
can be a success... .M.M.K.: If you are a “journ-
alist” it’s time you dropped such down-at-heel
phrases as “verily, yes,” “a sardonic 6ense of
humor” and “an ostentatious display of his worldly
possessions.” A Northern Woman; “Billy Shoes”
won’t fit Globe: He put it that way merely to
have his joke.... Mary House: You’ve got the point;
try to improve the verses, especially the first....
P.M.A.: Neither of any value... .Walnut: You can’t
crack yourself here Glory Grant: That form can
be well displayed only by a master-hand... .Keith
I. S.: We’re not collecting antiques, thanks....
G. G. Pearce: Probably it went overboard. Can’t
answer for pars, even when stamps are enclosed.
They shouldn’t be sent T.A.S.: What you send as
“A Remarkable Letter” appeared in The Bulletin
long ago. Others no interest.... Alpha: It has been
repeatedly explained. Write to the S. Africa Tennis
Association..,. .E.G.H,: None striking Constant
R.: No; the player pegs two holes... .Felice T.:
That conclusion is not new.... J.M.S.Y. (West
Africa): None have enough in them.... J.A.K.: The
“Gordon Pilgrimage” doesn’t give any fresh light
on the man or his work.... Kemo: Improved, but
still thin H.W.S.: “Coast Road” gets out of step
too often... .W.J.D.: Don’t like the “Cats”....
L.P.J.: It’s a good enough thing to sit on the moun-
tains and dream, but the bald statement isn’t much
unless the dreams are worth while.... Reciprocating
Cynic: Doesn’t make an effective point... .C.R.J.L.:
Wordy stuff that never gets beyond the common-
place.... Hombre: Not for us.—P.S.: Get a type-
writer or learn to write... .H.P.H.: Nothing fresh
there... .G.B. (Red Hill): Furlongs short.... N.C.
(Campsie): No use....Ratz: Won’t d0....Ga1e:
Very poor attempt... .A.T.P.: Doesn’t make a yarn.
. ...A.L.N.: Nothing there.. .A.11.H.: Ten times too
many words... .V.D. ("Bondi) : N 0... .A.L.N.: No-
where near the standard 'D.S.IL: Even in its
improved form “The Preiiieer’-’ doesn’t make a yam.
. ...R.P. (Bondi): Says nothing but the very obvi-
ous... .A.C.T.: Nicely written. But can’t you put
a little more into it?... .M.L.S.: Very weak attempt.
. ...Bourri: How did they get the horse and bull
into the sheep race?... .Whymsicus: None of them
get near.... Don Thi-ee: Not enough in “Episode.”
.... J.R.H.W.: Not up.... Jim G.: “Pink Roses”
don’t get even an Ji.c M.L.L.: Fair verse, but it
gets to nothing... .G.H.F.: Didn’t prove exciting.
Latest Reactionary: The jiggitty-jig lands you no-
where. .. .H.0.D.K.: Not quite... .S.R. (Campsie):
No use at a 11... .G.S.T.: Not up... .T.H.J.: Doesn’t
, work... .K.M. (Kogarah) : The verses you send are
nicely done, but the thought is old, and the same
ground has been well worked. Still, if she is 15
there is much promise... .Trebar: “Life” is a bit
wooden... .J.D.W.: Don’t see any reason for the
superior attitude. Why shouldn’t Bill like good
music as well as Algernon?... .G.P. (Surry Hills):
Verse no g00d.... J.M.O’S.: We couldn’t miss that:
For the girls to George Tilling has taken.
She’s got to watch the bread when baking,
For in that there is no faking,
Although she cooks the bacon,
For we put all the cake in,
And at the church they are waiting,
Poor George himself is money-making
Hasn’t been forsaken,
For we put all the cake in
When the ’fillings were waiting
For the be’lls they were shaking—
Oh, the row those tin-kettles were making!
....The Exile: Lamentable verse A.A. J.: Doesn’t
make us want to ask it to come in and take a
chair. .. . A.8.C.: “Second Class” won’t d 0....
R.S.H.: “Regeneration” misses. The turn is a bit
too crude; the man a bit too' abject... .Merrie
Mickie: We don’t like it. .. .Jonathan: Does it mean
anything ?.... H.1.C.: You don’t seem to have any
sense of rhythm T.O’S.: Verse can’t be allowed
to hop and jump about in that mad way T-P-D.:
Sorrowful fragment H.McI.: “Pledge” not up....
Jayareff: Can’t imagine any self-respecting paper
printing them G.M.H.: No use Northern
Woman: Foolish stuff Marion M.: Empty as a
burst dam in drought time 0.F.P.: Thin stuff;
and such a scarcity of rhymes! G.P. (Peter-
sham): All true enough, but nothing fresh....
F.J.H.L.: “Four O’clock” is a good way 0ff....
Bea D.: You found things green and growing by
the creek. Well, why make a song about it?....
Chick S.: The old “dawn”-“morn” rhyme to start
with Norman T.: No use to us N.F.S.: Doesn’t
thrill us V.M. (Palestine): Only just good enough
to make us wish it was better Orang: Well, if
you’ve got better proof than the file of sworn state-
ments which the other man submitted we’d like to
see it.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
King Topic: The relation is very young in art.
The office prophet declines to commit himself at
this stage... .Bob:. That old seasick joke again
attached to a crude drawing 1 Get to the stokehold!
Jack F.: The young man has a lunatic’s eye....
11. : You’re too late for this war. Put it by for
the next....W.T.K.: Strive for a little more expres-
sion. All the figures lack animation... .G.K.: Very
rough F.W.: Album stuff Leigh R.: You’re
only experimenting A.A.8.: Can’t use this one,
but try us with others T. 8.: Faint scratches....
Finley: You fumble badly. Aim at a cleaner tech-
nique.


Shipping,
ORIENT LINE
Xew and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabin es-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms,
Single-berth Booms.
Bleetric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
OR!ENT S.N. CO., Lt A.,
Tel.—City 4246, 2, 4, 6 Spring Street,
48io!- Sydney.
Sydney to England
via
the Allied Route,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
V os emit e Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes— Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, NOVEMBER 12,
VENTURA.
10,000 Tons, li Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Telephone: City 2282. 44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Pn-ectors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY
ht. (Chairman) ; WILLIAM DAVIES: E H
r rvw l r. rNli 'iT’ MLA ’ ; Hon - Sir ROBERT PHILp"
Iv.C.M.G. ; lion. A. J. TITYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Coliins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in new
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORID
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .1 .. .. 601,850 10 0
Reserve Fund .. 272,000 0 0
interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since ISOS specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman') •
Hon. G. W. Gray,, M.L.C. ; James Love. Esq. ;
W. H. Hart, Esq. ; Joseph Hughes, Esq., 1.5.0.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON
II HA I) OFFICE - - - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.’
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £ 2 ,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £160,000
Directors ; HEI I BERT R. LYSAGIIT, Esq., Chairman ;
GEORGE J. SL\, Esq,, LL.D. ; FRANK N YAR-
WOOD, Esq. ; GEORGE F. TUBMAN, Esq.'; Hon.
F. JAGO SMITH, M.L.C. ; DUNCAN CARSON,
liiSq. *
General Manager : C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Chief Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. 11. Brown.
Manager: G. H. I-lowkll.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finnev.
LONDON (37 Threadneedie Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 146 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock..
Preference Shares
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up
Uncalled Capital
£629,988
750,000
1,000.000
500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,496*224
CHANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.’
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking
business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
SYDNEY OFFICE: 105 PITT STREET.
Paid-up Capital £500,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. . . 570,000
TT „ , •, , £1,070,000
Uncalled capital .. . . .. 125,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 625’000
£1,820,000
Head Office : ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
with 85 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Shipping, etc.
Canadian-AostraUsian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, October 30.
R.M.S. MAKURA, November.
T, i?. m ® st beautiful Scenery in the World—the Canadian Rockies—is on the All-Red Route.
16 1 rairies, the Great Lakes, Chicago, Niagara Falls and New York can all be visited.
Through bookings to all Canadian, United States and European points.
Stop-overs on the Railways Arranged.
CALL OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS OF THIS ROUTE.
PASSENGERS CAN CHANGE AT HONOLULU INTO A DIRECT STEAMER FOR
SAN FRANCISCO.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco,via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
(>iand Can> on of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS.
lor illustrated pamphlets regarding the aboye services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE
/
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Send for particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES,
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
Directors:
£4,000,000
3,100,000
4,000,000
£11,100,000
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
F. B. S. Falkiner, Esq., M.H.R.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black. M.L.C.
A*, An two • CJ T? T • 171 4 •*,
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq.,
The Hon. James T. Walker.
M.D.
it j nJL' S ‘ Ridley, Esq.; A. G. Milson, Esq. General Manager: Sir John Russell French, KB E
“end Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, EC.
340 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world. J ’ P a onaon -
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
Letters of Credit and Circular notes issiied, negotiable throughout the World.
dommoniwattl'
gd
3M“HtBtraKa
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (Newßritain),
also London (2), and A.I.F. Camps in England.
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and SAVINGS BANK AGENCIES at 2776 Post Offices
throughout Australia, Papua, New Britain, Solomon Islands,
and The Pacific.
JAMES KELL, DENISON MILLER,
Deputy Governor 1919 Governor
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1834.
Capital paid up £2,382,018 15 0
Reserve Fund - £2,120,000 0 0
Reserve Capital £2,500,000 0 0
£7,002,018 15 0
4L
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Ivater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses, M.L.C.
J. W. Macarthur Onslow, Esq.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes.
M.L.C.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Branch: 18 Birchin Bane, E.C.
London Bankers—The Bank of England; The London County Westminster
Parrs Bank, Limited: Barclays Bank, Limited.
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
and
Shipping-
SYDNEY INTER-STATE SDB-COMMITTEE
INTER-STATE PASSENGER SAILINGS
(Circumstances Permitting).
FOR MELBOURNE.
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE.
FOR BRISBANE. MACKAY, TOWNSVILLE
AND CAIRNS.
Huddart Parker L
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND.—ReguIar sail-
ings between Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand
ports and vice versa; particulars to be obtained on
application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA.—From Sydney tc
Hobart and vice versa every three weeks. Between
Melbourne and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; George Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE FINE TWIN-SCREW STEAMER
“LEVUKA,” 6500 tons,
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
The “Levuka” is fitted with wireless and with
every modern convenience for the comfort of passen-
gers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 26
days, and from Sydney 18 days. Passengers desiring
a more extended tour can travel by S.S. “Amra,”
which connects at Suva.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street,
Melbourne, or Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to:—
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads—steamer to Murwjllumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 11s.; second-class rail and steerage on
steamer, £4 ss.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST.. SYDNEY.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
Favorite Mail Route to Japan, with connections
at Japan to
EUROPE AND AMERICA.
Tours can be arranged to China, Japan, Korea,
by this Line.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN.
Via Brisbane, Townsville, Thursday
Island, Zamboanga, Manila, Hongkong,
Nagasaki, Kobe and Yokohama.
SPECIAL NOTICE. —All Passengers proceeding to
JAPAN must have their Passports vised by the Con-
sul-General for Japan in accordance with the regula-
tions of the Japanese Government
Full particulars of Sailing Dates, Passage Money,
Freights, etc., apply
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LTD.,
Managing Agents for Australas’ia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address:
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable Address:
“Iroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton § Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Managing Agents for;
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Etd
Central Queensland Meat Export Co. Eimited!
Fitzroy Estates Eimited.
Blackheatli Collieries Etd.
AGENTS FOR:
British India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Sydney).
P. & O. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle)
Messageries Maritimes Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.) at
Brisbane.
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane)
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co. —at Queens*
land Ports).
Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports).
Huddart Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide.
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji). Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
Head Office: Mary Street, Brisbane.


Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
From Liberty to Brest-Litovsk: the
First Year of the Russian Revolu-
tion. By ARIADNA TYRKOVA-
WILLIAMS. [lmmediately.
Full of information which is entirely new to
the British public, bearing upon every side of
Russian life and polities during- the recent
cataclysm.
The Village: Russian Impressions.
By ERNEST POOLE. Illustrated.
Bs. net.
The Times : “One of the most instructive and
entertaining- books about the Russian people
that has appeared for u long time.”
The Statesman’s Year Book. Statis-
tical and Historical Annual of the
States of the World for the year 1919.
Edited by Sir ,T. SCOTT KELTIE
add M. EPSTEIN, M.A., PhD.,
F.R.G.S. ISs. net.
ROUND TABLE PUBLICATIONS.
The Round Table
A Quarterly Review of the Politics of
the British Commonwealth.
2s. 6d. per copy, or 10s. per aniium,
post free to any address within the
Empire.
Leading- Contents for June:
AUSTRALIA: THE PEACE CONFERENCE
—THE ONE BIG UNION.
THE PEACE OF VERSAILLES.
THE LEAGUE OF NATIONS AND THE
BRITISH COMMONWEALTH.
THE WTT.TTART EFFORT OF THE BRITISH
EMPIRE.
RUSSIA’S REVOLT AGAINST BOLSHEVISM.
The Problem of the Common-
wealth L. CURTIS. The after-
war relations between Great Britain
and the Dominions. Sewed, 2s. 6d.;
Cloth, 4s.
The Commonwealth of Nations. The
historical basis of the foregoing. 6s.
NEW, UNIFORM AND CHEAP
EDITION OF
THE NOVELS OF HUGH WAL-
POLE. Red Cloth. 3s. net each.
The Wooden Horse.
Mr. Perrin and Mr. Traill.
The Prelude to Adventure.
Fortitude.
Maradick at Forty.
The Duchess of Wrexe.
The Home and the World. By Sir
RABINDRANATH TAGORE. 6s.
net.
Saturday Review: “In these days of
criminating praise it is hard for a reviewer to
find words with which to welcome properly a
book so good as this.”
The Land they Loved. A story of
Ireland. By G. D. CUMMINS. 6s.
net.
The Hills of Desire. By RICHARD
A MAHER, Author of “The Shepherd
of the North.” 4s. 6d.
Birth. A Novel by ZONA GALE. 4s.
6d.
The Observer: “The people of Burage are
excellently done. American writers somehow
have the knack of chronicling small beer with
greater fresh ness than our novelists. . . .As the
study of one beautiful and piteous character, it
is tragically successful.”
The Rising: of the Tide. The story of
Sabinsport. By IDA M. TARBELL.
4s. 6d.
* Though Miss Tarbell is one of the most
widely read authors of America, this is her
first long novel. Its splendid understanding of
human nature and the dramatic quality of its
scenes are calculated to make it as popular
reading as have been her previous contributions
to literature.
Orders for '.the above three books to be sent
to the Melbourne Depot, 109 Russell Street.
To be Obtained from alt
Bo oksel/ers
MACMILLAN SCO.LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
V'
r>3
’
-i
rr.r
: r. «
Appreciable
Quality!
ABBEY SHOES
give you utmost comfort and service
combined with correct style, perfect fit
and long service.
The hoot illustrated is. a smart, made-to-
order style in Tan Willow Calf.
Price SSI- and 45/-
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
Conspicuously Well Hatted but not
Hatted Conspicuously.
Slichaiti Jsunt
Spring and Summer Models.
Stetson
Knox
Herbert Johnson
Tress
Scott’s
A. J. White
Woodrow’s.
31ithari> 3Snnt
314 George Street
(near Hunter Street), SYDNEY.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
OF STERLING VALUE. RIGID and RELIABLE.
WE HAVE AN UNRIVALLED SELECTION.
COMBINED
KNIFE, FORK & SPOON,
all metal, very strong.
Price 2/- post free.
“SUNOL” Pocket Lighters.
Better than Matches.
Price 2/- each, post free.
gd
83. Harrington and Richardson’s
D.8.8X. Gun, 16-, 20- or 28-gauge, top
lever, case-hardened frame, 26in. barrels, both choke ;
weight about sAlb Freight pai<,
£.5/10/-
WE REPAIR
GUNS# RIFLES
Smoke Sunol Tobacco
Awarded 4* Gold Medals*
2oz. Sample 1/2, Post Free.
m
U
825. Altendorf and Wright’s High-grade
English D.8.8.L. Gun, 12-gauge, 2a-, 30-
inch barrels, both choke, top action cross-bolt, spring strikers, rebounding locks,
patent fore-ends, highly engraved, matted rib, weight about 7Jlb. Freight paid,
£lB/18/-
“Koolah” Shaving: Sticks
Delightful to Use. 7d. each, post free.
Owing to market fluctuations,
prices here quoted are subject
to change without notice.
H
Thhncarffi el d
812. “Ithaca” Arms Co.’s Hammerless
Pigeon Gun (as illustrated), field quality, 12 gauge, top lever,
dense Trogan jiitrol 32in. steel barrels, bdth choke Greener crossbolt, high file-cut lib, pistol
grip, chambered for 2fin. cartridges, walnut stock, weight 71b. to 7 Alb.
Tested for Nito Powders tieightpan,
We can also supply'the “Ithaca” Gun, similar description to No. 12 but
higher grade 12-gauge at freight pai ,
£9/10/
£l l/11/
fg
833. Winchester Automatic Repeating Shot-Gun,
1911 Model, 12-gauge, walnut stock, pistol grip, nickel-steel
barrel, 28in., full choke, take-down system, chambered for 2fin. shells.
Magazine holds 5 cartridges, rubber butt-plate. 4? 11 /11/
Weight 7 fib. Freight paid,
POWDER
Just arrived large shipment of Gunpowdtr.
You are advised to make an early purchase
AUSTRAL 3/ 9 lb ‘
DIAMOND GRAIN 5/- !*>•
DUPONT’S SmoKeless for Guns 10/6 lb.
DUPONT’S SmoKeless for Rifles 11/9 lb.
E. C. SMOKELESS 11/9 lb.
PLEASE NOTE. —Powder cannot be posted.
MINIMUM FREIGHT on any quantity packed up to 281 b.
is 10/- in N.S.W.
- ' K
barrels, both choke, D. <v i>. iuic-c«u «■*«<= - - ‘ naid
beautifully, engraved, weight about 7flb. °
826. Midland Gun Co.’s D.8.8.L.
Pisreon Gun. 12-gaus?e, top action, bar locks,
Greener cross-bolt, high-filed rib, 28-inch steel
& IJ. fore-end side clips, chambered for cartn ■S, £l4
r
834. Remington Browning Automatic Repeating
Shot Gun, 12-gauge, slide grip, steel barrels, take-down
system, magazine holds six cartridges , £.ll/111-
weight about lib Freight pan .
Steven’s
5.8.8.8. Gun,
12- or 16-gauge,
r
1 -
top action,
pistol grip,
an ordinary
solid case-hardened trame, decarbonised steel barrel, 30m or 32m
walnut stock; weight about 641 b. Gun can be taken apart, same as
Double-barrel Gun. B7 ~AutO-EieCtOr. A 7 /6
Postage—2/6 N.S.W.:
4/8 Inter-State-
SPORTSMAN’
GUIDE POST FREE TO ANY
ADDRESS.
ILLUSTRATED
1C
nUSTRTILmS GREATEST
SPORTS OUTFITTERS-
AND TOBACCONISTS
w
City Sports Depot
99 King St; also a*
Newcastle d Brisbane^


MISS MURIEL WINDOW PRAISES
DR. SHELDON’S DIGESTIVE TABULES.
m
■ £O.
i mm
..... Wmsm
M
MISS MURIEL WINDOW (from a photo).
PERFECT HEALTH
Miss Muriel Window, the lovely
little Peacock of Vaudeville, who
adorned the Sir Ilarry Lauder bill,
is aureoled in a niche all her own
in the Temple of Art. Her strik-
ing beauty, her sparkling vitality,
her grace, her command of mime
and gesture, all combine to make
her talent unique. This favorite
writes to us:—
The first week I was in
Australia I was recommended
to try your Dr. Sheldon’s
Digestive Tabules, and I
found them so good that I am
dropping you a few lines in
praise of them.
It happened at a dinner
party that a friend of mine
remarked how she could never
enjoy a big dinner unless she
had a few of Dr. Sheldon’s
Digestive Tabules along with
her to take alter eating, as
she suffered from dyspepsia,
and these Tabules, if taken
immediately after eating,
always counteracted any ill-
effects of the dinner.
Now, I have never had
dyspepsia, but I know what
indigestion is, and believe
me it is no simple thing to
get rid of, so 1 decided that I
would venture SJ/6 for a box
of these Tabules, and mighty
glad I am that I did. I have
found them most excellent.
They have entirely cured me,
and I find them also a most
wonderful tonic. Recommend
them I certainly can, and I
will never travel again with-
out a tin of these in my
travelling case.
Wishing them success,
which I am sure they deserve,
I am, sincerely yours,
(Sgd.) MURIED WINDOW,
Palace Theatre.
This can be had only in connection with perfect digestion. When the food is properly digested the
blood carries the nutriment to all parts of the body, and the process of assimilation and repair is
kept up uniformly, resulting in healthy organs and members. Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules
guarantee perfect digestion no matter what the condition of the stomach is. The reason is plain.
They themselves digest the food, and permit the stomach to rest and get well Dr Sheldon’s
Digesive Tabules are sold at 1/6 and 2/6.
®»SfIEU)ONS
Price 2^5
Music
Through
Mn Edison’s
Secret
o
The Crowning achievement
of Thomas A. Edison.
Thomas A. Edison, who in 1877 gave the world the
phonograph—has now produced the most wonderful
musical instrument in the world—a sound Re-creation
instrument—
The NEW EDISON
A comparison of the tone of The NEW EDISON with
other makes of instruments reveals instantly that some-
thing has been missing all these years and that you are
hearing it now for the first time. It is simply this: The
NEW EDISON Re-creates exactly as originally rendered
—-with all the overtones and shades of music—-and
without metallic timbre or nasal harshness.
Write immediately for fully descriptive illustrated
literature, post free to any address.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
A Seeker of the Rose.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A LOVER of Beauty, if ever a lover
Of Beauty abode on this planet
of ours,
You treasured her green things, the star-
light above her,
The color of sunset, the fragrance ot
flowers;
The sea in its calmness, its thunder, its
sighing,
The promise of morning, the secret ot
night,
And quested forever the Glory undying,
Forever retreating, evading our sight.
Retreating forever, and evermore calling
The searcher for Beauty, the dreamer of
dreams;
You followed and sought for the Wonder
enthralling
Far over dim mountains, lit seas and
strange streams ;
Unbaffled, undaunted by height or by hollow,
By mystic dark waters and forests of
fear—-
The quest of the rainbow that flies as men
follow :
But ever 'the Rose seemed more near and
more dear.
Relenting in seasons, the Loveliness lonely
Will bend to the face of some worshipper
pale—
To him who has loved her, has sought for
her only.
Long seeking, lone seeking her dream-
guarded trail.
A fountain of glory in spaces forbidden,
The Rose-fire eternally sparkles and
gleams,
But yet to the seeker in reveries hidden
One leaf may be granted to lighten his
dreams.
On Truth so the spirit of Plato will ponder.
So Mozart will order his marvellous
themes,
And Dante with Beatrix Heaven will
wander,
And Angelo, painter, will picture his
dreams.
You served in her service, disdaining to
falter.
Your soul chose the region where Beauty
resides,
Tifl last, by the light of the innermost altar,
lou saw where the Rose in her glorv
abides.
This many a summer has gone since you
vanished :
Lhey said that you died—’tis a matter of
Avords—
But something superb from our senses was
banished
Like the terror-stopped music of carolling
birds. *
Where ever you may be, and whither are
going,
The heart of the Rose you will all under-
stand.
No mysteries noAV she will keep from your
knowing—■
You met her with one of her leaves in
your hand.
N.S.W.
P. E. QUINN.
Two Pale Lovers.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ERYONE with whom they had come
in contact remarked that they were
suited to each other.” They were
engaged when the house got to know them —
and had been so for some time, though no-
body seemed to know how it had come about.
They seemed such poor, pale shadows that the
onlookers —and there were plenty of them —
privately considered the whole thing ridicu-
lous. It seemed impossible that they should
ever set up an establishment together in the
ordinary flesh-and-blood fashion and start to
raise a family; but that was evidently their
misty, far-away intention, and meanwhile
they drifted palely about together, making
each other little love-gifts of headache
remedies (they both suffered severely from
headaches), liver pads, eyedrops, pills and
potions. In the winter she knitted him
warm socks and mufflers, and he reciprocated
with goloshes and umbrellas. While they
waged war with their natural infirmities
they made love in a cpiiet, shy way, and were
very confidential behind their spectacles.
The only close friend they seemed to have
was a religious elderly chemist who occasion-
ally took tea with them in a sacramental
manner on fine Sunday evenings. On these
occasions Herbert would put on his gold-
rimmed spectacles and the claw-hammer coat
which made him look like a long-legged bird,
and Emily would appear in something light
and dainty instead of the usual severe tailor-
made costume in which she almost lived.
Pedman the chemist gave them professional
advice throughout the year, to which they
listened most attentively, and religious lit-
erature on their birthdays. They were not
talkative young people, but they confided to
all those with whom they were on yarning
terms that they “thought a lot of Mr Ped-
man.” When they were a little flushed with
enthusiasm for his good qualities they might
tell any sympathetic auditor that they “look-
ed up” to Mr. Pedman. Everybody else,
however, thought Mr. Pedman had too much
good advice to give away, and ladies who
wanted to do sewing on Sundays forbore to
do it in his presence. They admitted that
he had never issued a proclamation on the
subject of Sunday sewing, but said he looked
the sort of man who wouldn’t believe in such
things. And while they argued about him
and his likes and dislikes. Mr. Pedman ate a
hundred Sunday teas and talked in genteel
whispers until it was time to go for his boat.
He seemed the sort of man who might be
expected to come and go for ever ; but one
day he flared out of the world in a rocket-
burst of publicity by poisoning himself very
horribly in the little dispensary at the back
of his shop. There was nothing wrong with
his body or his books (a doctor and an
auditor between them discovered that much),
and he left no written reason for his suicide;
which was quite in accordance with his
annoyingly secretive character.
Herbert and Emily—two quiet, grief-
stricken figures in deep black —went to tire
furtive little funeral and, late in the day,
arrived back from the graveyard short of a
father confessor. That evening they turned
in their anguish to Mr. Bodger, the senior
lodger of Mrs. Tribbens’s boarding-house;
and Bodger accepted the charge, meanwhile
privately registering a vow that he would find
a way of getting them out of their moping
habits. “That Pedman fellow was a bad in-
fluence,” he explained to the rest of the
household. “I never liked him—and now
you can see liow lie ended up. Poisoned like
a d —d dog at the back of his own shop with
some of his own rubbish! I don’t like to
speak ill of the dead, but you can’t tell me
that a man of that sort was fit to be the
friend of these two youngsters. What do
they want messing about with pills and
powders for at their time of life? I never
filled myself up with drugs! I left my stomach
alone and it left me alone! There’s too much
pilling and powdering going on in the world
to-day, and it’s all the fault of these chemist
fellows who keep on telling foolish people
they must go on taking things to keep
themselves well. When I was young, we
took physic when we were sick, and then it
was proper physic—stuff that would make
you feel d—n sorry for yourself. There was
none of this sugar-coating pill trickery then
to get people into the habit of swallowing
muck! Now you get a little pot of poison in
sugared lumps, and you can swallow as much
of it as you please without knowing how
nasty it is. What’s the result? Every-
body’s got a shelf at home with a little
chemist’s shop on it and the d—d chemists
are riding about in motor-cars thinking out
new ways of spoiling their poor customers’
constitutions. You leave it to me and see if
I don’t get these young people out of their
bad habits. They want to be chased into
the open air and made to play tennis and row
boats instead of staying inside whispering
to chemists and taking pills.”
Bodger, as was usual when he was in-
terested in a thing, soon had a full head of
steam up and started to force his theories
into practice, regardless of protests. “Stop
this messing about with medicine and get out
into the open air and sun. / never took
medicine when I was young, and look at me
now !” He stroked his thick beard and was
still while they contemplated the full-blooded
testimonial to the old regime. “Look at me
now!” he repeated loudly.
Mrs Tribbens, who had been fluttering
uneasily in the background, came forward
faltering excuses for her two pets. “But,
Mr Bodger, you were such a robust young
man, you know!”
Bodger turned-, fire in his eye. “I was
not!” he bellowed. “ You never knew me
when I was young! I was a d—d sight
thinner and more miserable than our young
friend here; but I knew how to build myself
UP, ma’am ! I went to work like a man and
I Built Myself Up—did it with exercise
and good food and plenty of it. I kept at it
till I could leap a five-barred gate after a
ten-mile run and almost knock down a bul-
lock,”
“Oh, but Herbert does take exercise, don’t
you, Herbert?” It was Emily speaking
mildly from behind her spectacles. “You
have never seen him go through his exercises,
have you, Mr. Bodger?”
“If you mean that child’s toy made of
ropes and pulleys and little handles that he
keeps in his room, I have—and precious
little I think of it. That’s no substitute
for exercise in the open air and plenty of
good food well cooked.”
“I don’t believe in too much meat!” pro-
tested Herbert with dignity. “We all eat
too much meat.”
“I don’t!” shouted Bodger; “and you don’t
either. And she don’t ear half enough. If
you are trying to cram any of your vegetarian
rot down my throat, I won’t have it!”
“Do you know that a cabbage contains
more nourishment than”
“No, I don’t, young man ! I know that a
cabbage is a cabbage and goes well with
some kinds of meat. But it doesn’t go alone !
Only a cow can make a meal off a cabbage.”
“Then there are other vegetables. Take
the carrot, for instance. I read only yester-
day”—
“More cow-food! You’ve been so busy read-
ing and listening to chemists that you’ve for-
gotten you’ve got a stomach of your own to
tell you what’s good for you.”
Emily flushed modestly. “I don’t like too
much meat,” she ventured.
But Bodger was ready for her. “You!
My dear child, you don’t know what too
much meat tastes like —you’ve never had it.
You eat more good wholesome meat and
you’ll begin to forget you ever suffered from
headaches. And,” he added, “you’ll get some
color into those cheeks of yours.” Then he
walked off and left them feeling very uncom-
fortable. Bodger. had rather a gift for that
sort of thing.
By dint of shouting and good-natured
bullying, the new adviser of Herbert and
Emily soon made them abandon their seden-
tary pleasures and a good deal of their
medicine. He got them up at 6 o’clock every
morning and made them row him about the
harbor in a skiff till their muscles tingled.
Then he would command them to rest in
some still, misty bay, and, with the cool
morning wind ruffling his beard, give them
from his seat in the stern a lecture on the
beauties and benefits of early rising—a joy
which is almost unknown to all but the very
young and the old. After they had rested
they would pull back to a solid breakfast,
abandoning reluctantly the delicious fresh-
ness of the water for the flurry of a sleep-
staled boarding-house waking itself up late
for the routine of the day. They made the
hurried boarders stare by the amount of food
they disposed of and the boisterous way they
did it. Bodger, roaring his pleasure, called
all hands to witness that fresh air and
exercise were already working a transfor-
mation, as indeed they were. Anyone could
see with half an eye that Herbert Green was
acquiring a chest where formerly there had
been merely a hollow. And Emily Colmer
was wearing a natural flush that made her
look pretty in suite of her spectacles. As a
matter of fact, her eyes had so much sparkle
that her spectacles seemed unnecessary. The
couple began to be noticed admiringly.
(Continued on next page.)


Are You
Getting' Old
Faster than you oug'ht ?
£very Picture
Ist Is A Story
\\*i
' >
£>
Watchfulness can add years to
anybody’s life. Some are old at
sixty, others are young at eighty.
Your habits mean sound kid-
neys or weak kidneys—good
blood or bad blood, for weak
kidneys let uric acid collect in
the blood to ruin health.
Always keep the kidneys
active, but especially after middle
age. This is good insurance
against nervous, rheumatic and
urinary troubles, stiff and swol-
len joints.
Rest the kidneys by avoiding
overwork, worry and strong
drinks. And at the first sign of
backache, rheumatic pain or
urinary disorders use Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills.
What Sydney thinks of Doan’s
Pills is shown by grateful tributes
like the one given here.
BACKACHE AND KIDNEY TROUBLE
CURED.
SYDNEY MAN SPEAKS.
Mr. H. Holder, Euronga, Amhurst
Street, North Sydney, says :—“Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills are indeed a won-
derful kidney medicine. I have proved
this. For a long time I suffered agony
from backache and kidney trouble, and
only those who have been afflicted in this
way have any idea what I went through.
My limbs swelled considerably, the kidney
secretions were thick and cloudy with a
red sediment, and I had agonising pains
in my back. When I stooped it was as
much as I could do to stand up straight
again without assistance, my back was so
stiff and lame. I was treated by a doc-
tor, and tried all sorts of remedies, but
nothing gave me the slightest relief. I
was naturally very worried about the
serious state of my health, and when
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills were
brought under my notice I decided to try
them. It was a grand thing for me that
I got this remedy, for seven bottles cured
me completely. I cannot speak too highly
of Doan’s Bachache Kidney Pills, and re-
commend them with every confidence to
other sufferers.”
Four years later Mr. Holder says:—“l
have still the same good opinion of Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills. They cured me
of kidney disorder four years ago, and I
have had no return of the complaint
since.”
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are
sold by all Chemists and Stores at
2/9 per bottle, or posted by
Foster-McClellan Co., 15 Hamilton
Street, Sydney.
DOAN’S
Backache Kidney Pills
CURES BY DOAN’S OINTMENT.
PILES CURED.
Mrs. W, Membrey, Como, 79 Simmons
Street, Enmore, says:—“For three years
I was a martyr to Piles, and I don’t
think any ailment causes more suffering
and loss of sleep. I used Pile remedies
and was treated by a doctor, but nothing
gave me any relief. -After so many
failures I thought there was no cure for
this distressing complaint, but I was mis-
taken, as a treatment with Doan’s Oint-
ment proved. A short course of this
wonderful preparation cured me, and I
advise all sufferers to give Doan’s Oint-
ment a trial.”
Mrs. Membrey confirms the above seven
years later :—“Doan’s Ointment cured
me of Piles over seven years ago, and I
have been free of this distressing ailment
ever since.”
ITCHING PILES.
PERMANENT RELIEF.
Mr. Isaac Swales, 97 Fitzroy Street,
Moore Park, Sydney, says:— “l used
remedy after remedy trying to get a cure
for itching piles, but nothing did me any
good until I got Doan’s Ointment. This
wonderful Ointment cured me -in a very
short time. Only those who are tortured
with Piles know the pain and irritation
of this complaint, but, after my experi-
ence with Doan’s Ointment, I am sure
that no one need suffer from piles. I
wish I had known about this remedy years
before; it would have saved me a lot of
trouble.”
Mrs. Swales confirms the above five
years later: —“My husband’s cure has
proved a permanent one. He has been
free from piles for the past five years.”
Doan’s Ointment is sold by all Chemists and Stores at 2/9 per pot, or
posted free by Foster-McClellan Co., 15 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
It happened just about the time Herbert
threw the last of his pills into the dustbox
and Emily poured an old bottle of eyedrops
down the bath, Barman, one of the younger
lodgers, asked Emily if she would go to the
theatre with him ; and Emily, being momen-
tarily dazed with surprise, forgot her solemn
engagement to Herbert and accepted. Par-
man, being a cheerful person with about as
much idea of diplomacy as a cow, casually
told Emily’s fiance—and the damage was
done. There was a lovers’ row—such a row
as could never have happened in the old
pale-pill days—and a fracture. That night
Herbert rowed away in the moonlight with
the golden-haired Exchange girl languishing
in the stern-sear, of his boat, and the board-
ing-house buzzed like an overturned beehive.
“Fancy her having the spirit to tell him
it was none of his business!” shrilled Mrs.
iJodd-Garstead. who had no brains to think
with but enough unearned increment to loaf
on.
“I never thought she had it in her,” was
Mrs. Tribbens's mournful comment.
"It won’t do them any harm,” boomed
Bodger. “They’ll kiss and make it up
presently, you see.”
“Well!” screamed Mrs. Dodd-Garstead in-
dignantly, "that’s a nice way to talk about
it! I call it a shame!”
“So do I.” chimed in Mrs. Dodd-Garstead's
A.D.C. and toady, a little woman who wor-
shipped money and anybody who_ possessed
it. “If a person has what I call nice in-
stincts, these dreadful quarrels and misunder-
standings must hurt them. Myrtle Reed
says in one of her books ‘Love is our all—
our’ ”
“Myrtle Iteed!” roared Bodger. “Myrtle
Reed is a twaddler.”
There was a chorus of feminine “Oh’s” at
the blasphemy.
“Oh,” chirped the A.D.C. “I know her
books don’t appeal to everybody! There’s
too much soul in them for some people!”
But Bodger was ready for her. “If by
‘soul’ you mean pap for silly women, I
agree with you, ma’am. I hate the sight of
the things, and so do all healthy-minded
people.”
After that no further discussion was pos-
sible. The women turned their backs on him
and agreed 25 times that it was “a shame.”
“They, were so happy together!” they wailed,
so that presently it was almost a popular
song.
The amount of blame attachable to Par-
man and the telephone girl was debated in
.whispers at all hours of the day and night
in halls and bedrooms. Generally they were
regarded as evil interlopers who had of
malice aforethought spoilt a promising ro-
mance. A considerable amount of virtuous
indignation piled up, and both the delin-
quents were made to feel thoroughly uncom-
fortable, though they also had their parti-
sans who contended that people had a right
to please. themselves so' long as they went
about it in a “nice” way. The war dwin-
dled as a topic amongst the women. Not
'_' I!e of them thought for a moment of blam-
ing Nature or its servant Bodger, who sat
massively in the verandah corner crackling
his newspaper in a threatening way and
clearing his throat when the stupid discus-
sions became too loud for his comfort.
.The parted lovers were as luxuriously
miserable as parted lovers always are. They
put up.the. usual pretence of “don’t-care”;
but their joy was hollow and their chill
politeness to each other an obvious sham.
Presently even Parman and the golden-
haired telephone girl became aware that
they were merely stop-gaps and that the
time was ripe to get out of Cupid’s way.
Barman ceased taking Emily out to dinner
(she didn’t seem as pretty now), and the
golden-haired telephone girl made the awful
discovery that Herbert was quite hollow-
chested and “a bit of a wowser.” No self-
respecting girl can be seen with a bit of a
wowser, and that diversion ceased as sud-
denly as it had begun. On a fine summer
evening, two hours after an especially bad
boarding-house dinner, two lovers who were
no longer flushed or bright-eyed took each
other to heart in the shadow of the pepper-
tree and declared a delicious peace for ever.
The special brand of wireless telegraphy
which seems to flourish naturally in board-
ing-houses spread the glad news, and the
Avomen came together and conferred in sibi-
lant whispers till Bodger roared that the
house sounded like “a nest of d —d snakes.”
“Isn’t it beautiful!” cooed Mrs. Dodd-
Garstead's A.D.C.. clasping her hands. “But
that’s ,tbe hesf, of lovers’ quarrels—there
always has to be a lovely scene of forgive-
ness ! Do you know that story of Myrtle
Reed’s where the man says”
Alice fled up the hall from the kitchen.
“Is it troo, Mrs Tribbens? ’Ave they made
it up?”
“God bless m.v soul!” shouted Bodger.
“Can’t two youngsters kiss and make friends
without everyone in the house running and
jumping?”
“ Sh-h /” hissed the distracted company.
“ Don’t shout like that — they’ll hear you!”
“I think it’s lovely!” gurgled Alice. Then
in a burst of inspiration. “It’s jus’ like the
end of a movin’ pitcher!” After brooding
awhile over. this, she retired swiftly into
darkness with the cryptic observation,
“Somethin’ burnin’!”
When the gossipers had retired seething
into the house, Bodger sat on in his verandah
chair staring at the rising moon and mutter-
ing explosively to himself. And presently
out of the garden came two shy shadows
whose spectacles flashed like bayonet points
as the white light struck them. They Avei-e
saying nothing that could be overheard—
merely murmuring in a way that irritated
Bodger extremely.
“Halloa, you people!” Avas his rough greet-
ing from the shadoAV. “Are you coming for
a row in the moiming?”
The lovers hesitated, hand in hand, at the
foot of the steps. Something seemed to
warn them. Nature has a good reason for
making the insect the same color as the twig
it rests on ; and if the insect had its choice it
would remain a dull grey or broAvn—that is.
if it happened to be a Avise moth.
Green looked almost defiantly at the wait-
ing trainer and his fingers tightened impul-
sively on the Arris f of his girl. “No, thanks,
Mr. Bodger. I’m afraid it makes Miss Col-
mer too tired.” Turning to her he said in
a lower voice, “If your head is bad you will
lind those tablets on my dressing-table. Bet-
ter take two”
KODAK.
How Horomona Became a
Black Spider.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HOROMONA was standing at the
corner of the street wearing a de-
jected air and his red Salvation
“tcliersy” turned inside out. There were un-
mistakable signs of beer in Horomona’s
breath and stains of it on the holy garment.
“Tena koe, Horomona, how are you?”
“Oh, I te werry goot, you know; onary
I peen on-a te poose. Py cripe, I haat-a te
pa-a-ad ruck. My missus he hawwa te papy,
you know. Py cripe, yes, I peeu-a te poose
two tay now'. Te capatin he korra me te
praclc spider. We kot-a te new capatin te
Sarrawasin Army now; he te young ferra
an’ he got-a no missus. I had te werry
pa-a-ad ruck, right ’nufl.”
“But, surely you don’t need to get on the
booze simply because you’ve got another
piccaninny? I thought that you would re-
joice over a thing like that.”
“Oh, cripe, you toan’ know. I peen see
te interp’eter apout te serr-a my ran’ in
Poriki. He te hart case, t’at interp’ter. He
come my prace to see me for te ro-o-ong
time now. Sometime he pring-a te pottle
a whisky an’ he kimmy missus te trink, an’
when I come pack te prurry missus he half
poose, an’ he talk rike-'a te Tewil, an’ he
no’ cook-a te eel an’ te sput. Werra, some-
time te capatin te Sarrawasin he come, too.
Py korry, I tink too many pakeha he come-a
my prace, I toan’ rike it. Sometime he stop-
a rong, ro-o-ong time, an’ he say to me te
petter way I kiwwim te one-a-two quit for
te sel-for-nial.”
“What’s that, Horomona?”
“Oh, you toan’ know. S’pose-a you rike-a
take te tart te racis, werra, you toan’ ko,
an’ you kiwwum te money te prurry Sarra-
wasin, an’ he puy te prenty kai for te poor
ferra in Ingaran. He te werry poor ferra
in t’at prace, you know. I kett-a te werry
sorry for te poor ferra, ’cause he kott-a te
no kai in his puku, an’ I kiwwum te prurry
Sarrawasin tree quit.”
“Oh, I see. The ‘Self Denial Fund.’ But
why did you want to get on the booze, and
why does the Salvation captain call you a
black spider? That’s what I want to know.”
“Taihoa, taihoa. Werra, I ko te Ran’
Poard to serr-a my ran’ an’ I stop t’ere
two-a free week, an’ py’an’-by my cussin
he sen’ me te wire, an’ he say my missus
he gott-a te p-i-ig poy, I ketta te werry
prease for me. When I finis’ te Ran’ Poard
I ketta some money, an’ I tchump on-a te
motor-car an’ I scoot home rike-a prazes.
Werra, I ko see te missus an’ te poy. Huh !
I see-um. I kett-a te prurry wil’, I tell-a
you. I terr-um my missus: ‘Or-right, you
proomin’ cow. I ketta te ewen wit’ you
for t’is. I newwa puy you te prurry fonoli-
raf' now. I s’ow you. ’F you fink you
liumapug me you make-a te ’stake.’ So I ko
an’ rook for Rutene an’ we kett-a te trink.”
“But what was the matter? Why did you
want to drink?”
“Taihoa, taihoa. Werra, I s’out, an’
Rutene he s’out an’ ten I s'out akaiii, an’
py-an’-py I tance-a te haka. T’en te poss-a
pub he tell-a me te pes’ way I keep more
quiet. Werra, I take Rutene (he my onary
pes’ frien’, you know) an’ we ko town te
fis’ s’op an’ I tellim we haf’ te p-i-ig supper.”
“Yes, yes. But why did you get drunk?”
“Huh ! I earn’ herrup it. Taihoa. Werra,
te man te fis’ s’op he newwa giwwit te
pranty fis’ for me an’ Rutene an* we kickup
te herra-wa-row. I hittim t’at pakeha on
his face wit’ te te’t fis’ an’ he sen’ for te
preecemans. Te preecemans he te ko-oot
proke an’ he say te on’y pes’ way I ko home
an’ no kick up-a te row.”
“That’s all right. But, why did you want
to get drunk?”
“Taihoa, taihoa. Werra, w’en we ko town
te roat I kotta te craw-fis’ in-a my ban’ an’ I
meet-a te capatin te Sarrawasin. I peen
eatin’ te craw-fis’ an’ te capatin he terra me
what-a for I ket te pooze an’ what-a te koot
I tc’noin te. pan’-a-’oap” (Horomona still had
the blue ribbon in his coat) “if I trink-a
te neer? He terra me I te prack spider.”
“A what?” ■)
“Taihoa, taihoa. I terrim I te rangatira
an’ no koot he korra me te prack spider. So
I smas* ’im on te he’t wit’ te craw-fis’ an’
orate craw-fis’ run town his face an’ fen
I kiwwim te koot punce on his nose, an’ his
nose preed, an’ he fall town on Rutene’s
tog. Te tog make-a te pi-i-ig tangi an’ he
pite his reg. Py he tchump up, quick,
an’ hoi’ his han’ on his trowser an’ he yell
out like anyt’ing. T’en he run town te roat,
an’ .Rutene’s tog he ko forim an’ ewwery
time-a te tog he piteim he tchump rike-a te
rappit. He rook werry funny wit’ his nose
preed an’ te craw-fis’ on his face an’ te tog
he pite-em his s’irt ewwery time he tchump.
Pv korry, te pack of his trowser rook rike-a
te goose’s tail an’ Rutene, by tchingo, he
make-a te pig pi-i-ig raff an’ he say to me:
‘Py crikey, t’at te onary pes’ tchoke I ewwer
see.’ When I seeurn te capatin he koin’
roun’ te corner wit’ te tog tchumpin’ pehind
ms ( browsers, I tink ‘Gootenuff for you !’ ”
“But I want to know why you went, on
the drink, Horomona
“Oh, you know te way my missis he hum-
pug-a me; werra, no koot fat way. You
know, I kott-a te six girl perfore, an’ fen
lie humpug-a me.”
“Well, isn’t this one a fine boy?”
“Ok? yes, he te proomin’ poy, or-right,
but, he te proomin’ piebole. If he peen
one-a te kirl te ha’f-caste I ton’ care a tarn.
Put no koot o’ te missus he sen’ me te wire
an’ he humpug-a me t’at way—fat no koot.”
Then I understood why Horomona had
become a backslider and thought his refusal
*° , Mr s. H. a phonograph was quite
justifiable and reasonable.
“Py cripe, you kott-a te pub? We ko an’
hawwa a trink.”
We went.
JOHN R. COLE.


-r
‘ A
i ;; - y H
#»* ~ • i .
- .2£ ,
WESTINCHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z, Office—B3-107 Featherston Street, Wellington,
Victorian Office—9B Queen Street,
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
%
.4)
E? -
I
B-S
“THE
JL Rep
REMINGTON UMC
Repeating Shot Gun may be
used as a single or double
loader. When loaded to full
capacity it contains six cart-
ridges ready for use at the will of the
shooter.
The Remington UMC Autoloading Shot
Gun is manufactured under Browning pa-
tents. This gun automatically loads and
ejects, and five cartridges may be fired
with great rapidity.
These guns are favoured weapons among
sportsmen. Ask your dealer for further
particulars or send to us for descriptive
catalogue.
D. D. BRYANT, Australian Representative
Box 686. G. P. O- Melboura*
A SEASONED SHAVER.
“Many’s. the Razor I have tried, but there’s none
like the ‘Plum.’ ” So spoke a seasoned shaver, and
his experience is echoed by thousands of others;
Join the big crowd who swear by
THE “PLUM ” PvAZOR.
PRICE, 10/6 -POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
The above makes a handsome present.
“Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/2 Tube, post free.
All the above Post Free. Send for our Illustrated Price hist.
CRAIG & AITKENj
dfg
\
Tried and Trusted—
The “PLUM”
Razor.
MOTOR/LQRRIES
Scientific Supremacy.
A WELL-KNOWN fact of Denby
supremacy is the zealous care exercised
by its builders that each Lorry shall
meet the exact conditions under which it is
to be used. For every haulage problem there
is a Denby Lorry to solve it.
Load capacities: 1,2, 3?, 5 tons.
A. HATRICK & COMPANY, Wanganui, N.Z.
DENBY MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY.
Export Department, Singer Building, New York, U.S.A.
Cable Address: “Dentrux.”
TAKE
warning when the following symptoms make their appearance : —bilious-
ness, acidity, constipation, depression of spirits, flatulence, declining
appetite, headache, loss of energy, restlessness at night and heaviness
during the day. Generally speaking, these are indications that all is not
well with the digestive system. Take the necessary steps to remedy
matters. Before another day passes seek the assistance of
Beecham’s Pills
which will speedily relieve these unpleasant feelings, generally due to
complications arising from a disordered stomach, and bring about a
radical change in the General Health. For many years this excellent
preparation has been universally acknowledged to be a first-class remedy
for digestive troubles. They improve the powers of nutrition and thus
enable the body to benefit to the full from the food taken. Anyone who
is at all troubled with ailments originating in derangement of the
stomach, liver and bowels is urgently advised to take Beecham’s Pills
AHD MARK THE DIFFERENCE!
Sold in boxes, labelled price 10£d (36 pills), 1/1& (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
ARE YOU n
UPTUREU
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance tliat is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent -
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW: it is,
in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chatting leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft lubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE HIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more J
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
ISMS
The liver is the regulator of health If the
liver is active and well, good health and happi-
ness prevail; but once you allow your liver to
get torpid and sluggish, life be-
comes a misery. Dyspepsia,
Indigestion, Biliousness
Constipation, Headaches,
and Melancholy assail,
you,resulting in lackof
energy, loss of mem-
ory and ill-health ;
but remem beri
Carter’s Little'
Liver Pill* touch
df
CARTER'S
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
all liver ills. Try them to-day and see how
much better you will be to-morrow. They
-ever fail. Children like them.
Small Pill-Small Dose-Small Price.
GENUINE must
bear signature
gdf
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We SUPPLY —
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard*
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIO.
68$ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Rrnneh<‘ s in all narts of the wort' 1 .
For A Good Complexion
Why buy expensive cosmetics when there is nothing better
than “Vaseline” Cold Cream? Use it regularly every
night and morning. It cleanses, without enlarging the
pores—keeps the skin soft and smooth —allays irritation.
Good for baby, too.
Made of soothing “Vaseline” Jelly—sterilized—can’t
turn rancid. In porcelain jars and tin tubes. For sale at
chemists and general stores.
Other Vaseline Products
“VASELINE” EUCALYPTOL—for colds, influenza,
neuralgia.
“VASELINE” CAMPHOR ICE—for chapped hands
and lips.
GHESEBROUGH MANUFACTURING* COMPANY
(Consolidated)
New York London Montreal
gd
Vaseline
Trade Mark
Cold Cream
amer
/ each
. " Post Free
in use.
(Patented)
H *
each
Post Free
With Full Particulars
and Illustrated Circular.
f»g &■
The simplicity, lightness and excellence of the
Dreadnought is fully maintained.
SOUTH MELBOURNE.


NGROVIT
LEATHER
r«!AXIfVlUM SERVICE
can only be obtained if you use quality belt-
ing that fits the job.
Mangrovite Leather or Rawhide Belting is
unequalled as a power transmitter.
It grips the pulleys and commands the atten-
tion of your machines.
Prove it on your power plant and test its
merit in actual service.
Mangrovite Belting Ltd.
(Charles Ludowici, Managing Director),
49 York St. (Wynyard Square), Sydney. N.S.W
Western Australia: Gibbs, Bright* Co., Perth
S th Australia: John Reid & Sons Ltd., Adelaide
Special Steels for Motor-car Parts.
Dependable service is needed to-day more than ever before; for this
reason alone specify
An Eagle on a Globe Steels.
Their trustworthy qualities prove them best and cheapest. New
shipments to hand as follows:
S.D. 16.—Special Nickel Steel for Gears,, Gudgeon Pins, etc.
Jo be case hardened. In round bars from Sin. to
Shun., and plain discs from 6in. to 12Jin,
S.D. 21.—Chrome Vanadium Steel for Motor-car Axles,
trank and Transmission Shafts, etc. In round
bars from Jin. to 2Jin.
Prices promptly supplied on request to Desk “A.”
The Eagle & Globe Steel Go. Ltd.,
Makers of Ultra Capital High-Speed, Steel.
379-381 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
®tE ON ►
Dick’s Batata Belting
for True Economy.
trade;
'S OR
MARK
Sole Agents: Re 9''^ ered
JAMES HARDIE & CO. LTD.,
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. Wynyard & York Sts., SYDNEY.
’Phone 8456 (4 Lines).
581-3 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Currie Street, Adelaide.
Newcastle Agents—Paul & Gray Ltd.
“THE HEART OF THE AUTOMOBILE.
MODEL “R” SCHEBLER.
For Cars to 20 h.p. 96/-
For Cars to 30 h.p. .. 100/-
For whatever purpose you want Good Carburetion—for Motor-car,
Motor-cycle, Motor-boat or Stationary Engine—
THE SCHEBLER WAY is THE BEST WAY
Besst becjmsc it is Scientific, Economical, and it gets the Most Power from a given quantity of Petrol
slow teSt any calbui : ette *- can be put to is to be installed on 1 motor-eycie— from
i , ternfic acceleration or vice versa is asked for in an instant and how wpii tut? sr'iti?RT fr
equipped t 0 W ° rk iS voiced by the fact that practically ALL AMERICAN MOTOR-CYCLES are SCHEBLER
With Cai’S and Boats, too, THE SCHEBLER is just as Satisfactory—when vou get to know THE SOHEttLER
Site »«
request. 1 U J car huretter troubles. Would you like particulars? All information gladly furnished on
A FEW PRICES
OUTFIT, complete with Induction Pipe ...... 70/-
j FORD SCHEBLER OUTFIT, easily fitted, . £5
IMARINE or STATIONARY ENGINE SCHEBLERS—
-2 to 4 h.p., 60/-; 4 to 7 h.p., 62/6; 7 to 14 h.p,, 65/-
SOLE AGENTS
FOR AUSTRALIA—
Robert C. vSwan &, Co. Ltd®, 304 Pitt Street, Sydney.
&
“Clayton” Portable Steam En
“Tangye” Portable Lampless
Oil Engine.
“Star'* Portable Oil Engine
Dateety’s Machinery Agencies comprise
TANGYE’S Lampless Oil Engines, Benzine Engines, Suction Gas Plants, Pumps of all types, eto.
CLAYTON Portable Steam Engines. WOLSELEY Sheep Shearing Machines. BUNGLE Chaffcutters.
CANE Milking Machines. E.R.B. Separator Engines, Pumping Engines, Crutching Plants
TRIUMPH Oil and Benzine Engines, Vertical Type. ‘‘STAR’' Portable Oil Engines, etc.
MACHINERY DEPARTMENT-MILLER’S POINT, SYDNEY.
Triumph Oil or Benzine
Engine.
E.R.B. Separator
Engine.
Buncle Travelling Chaffcutter.
Shearing Machines
proved best by results
There is only one way to judge true merit—and that is
Results prove that the Wolseley are the most efficient
sheep-shearing machines in the world.
by RESULTS,
and satisfactory
They hold the
world’s record for
number of machines
sold and sheep
shorn annually.
Enquire through
the nearest branch.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Australasian Agents: All Branches
fg
’TOPE'
3®OsSP^'"
f
mimsmm
- !K '.mm
IMPROVED DESIGNS
Garage Air Compressors.
Simple in construction, accessible and requiring practically no operating attention,
these small COMPRESSORS are Specially Designed for Installation in Motor
Garages, small Pneumatic Tool Plants, Starting Gas Engines, etc.
All running parts are large and have suitable adjustments for wear.
Air Cylinders are thoroughly water-jacketed.
Dust-proof—Self-oiling—Noiseless.
SINGLE and DUPLEX TYPES IN STOCK. Write for Prices .
■
i
TD
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Rapid Efficient Oil Filters.
Williams’
5 Gallons of Dirty
Oil Restored
to lubrication
efficiency in 20
minutes.
Easily Cleaned.
Entirely Automatic.
Madein Australia by
‘I
Patent.
Save 50 to 70 per
cent, of your Oil
Bill by installing
one of these
Filters.
Write for Booklet—all
information and prices.
BILLETTS’ Patent TUYERE
The Hob Blast Ttiyere.
Saves 25 per cent, on Coal Bill
Saves 30 per cent, on Time.
Uses No Water. Never Burns Out.
Clink Discharged without Disturbing Fire.
2 51- to 401-
Particulars and leaflets from
mr
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD. Works: Camperdown. City Office : 350 George Street, Sydney
