

DE*WAR 3 S —The Spirit of Confidence.
Machinery Merchants,
Mining* and Contractors’ Plant,
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc.
107 Kent Street,
Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery,
Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available
Sydney,
Mining Requisites.
NJvW- MONT de PIETE D & I C9T
74/ Castlerea£k Si-.,74. Sydney.
“ADVANCES -
rrip
fiiimmiummxm
-.nura
ON ALL CLASSES
OF SECURITY
WITHOUT POSSESSION
nun""
■"'U\\V
Hunt n
eiwWwWtt
frj/tdejjf 2ls-l7swanston 4O Adelaide St., Brisbane.
29 King St,Newcastle. 186 Castlereaqh St.,a 159 George St.,West, Sydney.
CAPITAL & 200, 000 ‘Phone City 932s .
£ts>r£a cr 2?exTjn<e£t , Gesies*&/
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not he laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete D. and t Co. Ltd.”
A City Sewage System
for Modern Homes.
You simply cannot afford to take chances
with the disposal ol your sewage. For
the sake of your own and your children’s
health, study the merits of tile
Montgomerie-Neilson
Sewage Disposal System
This modern system does away with the
old-fashioned cesspool or tin-pan style of
W.C.—the greatest sources of disease the
country knows.
The sewage is treated so perfectly that
absolutely no odor arises even on the
hottest days.
Over 600 are in use ir« N. S. Wales
alone, and the system has the Q.K, of
experts the world over.
Send for free booklet, which gives facts
in detail.
MONTGOMERIE - NEILS ON
Oxidising Sewage Disposal,
50 Young Street, SYDNEY
’Phone City 8976.
9
PPLE
a
$
a
NOTHI'-O
TOAf.jU t
co^
&
Are the Best
liMijjlf!
9 llliiiite-.
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HANSEN’S
HI
f
ror INDIGESTION
amt DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
The family stimulant
I
n
m
Best all-round roofing:
“Not the same as others,”
* Malthoid as a roofing is unequalled for City Buildings, Factories,
Garages, Bungalows, Homesteads, Farm Buildings—in fact, all classes
of modern buildings—for city, suburbs and country.
Handsome in appearance, yet costs very much less than galvanised*
iron. %
ExceHent, too, as floor-covering for factories, balconies, etc.
Write now for samples and illustrated booklet, post free.
The Paraffine Companies Inc. (F. M. Prince, Australasian Manager),
Challis House, Sydney.
0:
■ V:
UJ
GRANVILLE
N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS.
Railway Rolling Stock of all Descriptions. Road Metal and Farm Waggons. Portable Steam Engines.
Sugar Mill Machinery. Heavy Iron & Malleable Castings. Cast-iron Porcelain-Enamelled Baths,sinks, etc.
Arthur
Head Office,
SYDNEY.
<5 <3
machinery;
“ROBEY” Patent UNIFLOW Steam Engines.
SUPPLIED in POWERS RANGING from 100 to 1000 INDICATED HORSEPOWER.
THE “ROBEY” UXIFLOW ENGINE represents the LATEST DEVELOPMENT
in the construction of HIGH-CLASS STEAM ENGINES.
HIGHLY EFFICIENT and ECONOMICAL in Steam Consumptions.
SIMPLICITY OF CONSTRUCTION, consequently low upkeep costs.
SUITABLE FOR HIGH STEAM PRESSURES and all temperatures of Superheat.
SPECIALLY SUITABLE FOR SMALL FLOOR SPACE.
* . a CATALOGUES AND COMPLETE INFORMATION FROM
lojl^eprgseutatives— & CO., HEAD OFFICE SYDNEY
ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH
Famous Brands of
HIGH-SPEED STEEL & DRILLS
"A.W.»» “T.Y.R.” “A.W. PREMIER.”
manufactured by
Sir W. Q. ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH & CO. LTD.
MANCHESTER, ENGLAND.
Sole Australian Representatives:
GilKprt I odde S Gn It/I l is pitt street, Sydney.
UUUCII IAHIge O VVI» L4U., 506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
LARGE STOCKS CARRIED.
f
TOOTH PASTE
Used Every Day
Prevents Decay.
f
The Bulletin
Vol. 40.—N0. 2064.
Thursday, September 4, 1919.
PRICE 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia! for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


w?
Learn
Foreign
f
THE I.C.S. LANGUAGE OUTFIT.
The most practical, easiest and most rapid method of Learning Languages.
FRENCH, ITALIAN, SPANISH, GERMAN,
Learn at Home—Phonograph plays Edison Records.
The I.C.S. .-SUPPLY EXPERT ADVICE FREE. PLAN YOUR FUTURE.
The
International Correspondence Schools
(The World’s Schoolhouse),
LONDON, SCRANTON, PARIS, NEW YORK.
183 Pitt St., Sydney. 63 Dixon St., Wellington, N.Z.
79 Swanston St., Melbourne. 336 Queen St., Brisbane
Want?
Information supplied without obligation
to enquirers aird a Free Booklet posted.
. .Advertisement Writer
. .Agriculturist
.. Architect
. .Artificer
. .Accountant (prelim.)
. .Boilermaker
.. Book-keeper
..Bridge Engineer
.. Builder
. .Chauffeur
. .Chemist
.. Carpenter
..Carriage Builder
. .Civil Engineer
.. Clerk of Works
. .Coke-oven Manager
. .Concrete Engineer
.. Die-maker
. . Draughtsman
.. Dynamo Attendant
. .Electrical Engineer
. .Electrician
. .Engine Driver
..Fireman
. .Furniture-maker
. .Gas-power Engineer
.. General Education
.. Illustrator
~ Livestock Breeder
. .Mathematician
. .Marine Engineer
. .Mechanical Engineer
.. Metallurgist
. .Metal Prospector
. .Mine .Electrician
. . Mine Foreman
. .Mine Manager
. .Mine Surveyor
. .Motor-body Builder
.. Motor Engineer
.. Motor Mechanic
. . Moulder
. .Municipal Engineer
. .Navigator
. . Patternmaker
. .Plumber
.. Poultry Farmer
. .Publicity Manager
. .Quantity Surveyor
. .Railway Engineer
. .Refrigeration Engineer
. .Salesman
. . Secretary
.. Sheet-metal Worker
, .Shorthand-Typist
. .Show-card Writer
.. Sign Painter
. .Smelter
. .Steam Engineer
. .Structural Engineer
..Surveyor<
. .Telegraph Engineer
. . Telephone'Engineer
. . Templater
.. Toolmaker
. .Window Dresser
. . Wireless Expert
. .Woollen Worker
. .Works Engineer
Foreign Languages—French, Italian, Spanish, German? by Phonograph.
e KINDLY PRINT NAME CLEARLY.
Name
Address
m
2T2
■
/
e*
3
m
M 2
You’ll Come to the Motor Lorry —Soon
Quick deliveries are essential. Haulage costs must be
reduced.
If you buy on facts, you’ll order a Federal Motor Lorry.
Built of thoroughly tested material, they will run indefi-
nitely—with proper care.
Write us for free magazine, “Traffic News”—also prices and discounts.
H. W. CROUCH, Sole N.S.W. Agent,
26=28 Wentworth Avenue, SYDNEY.
Federal Motor Truck Company
Factory — Detroit, Mich. U. S. A. Foreign Dept., 18 Broadway, New York, U. S. A.
F° d r .3 r J ick and wounded
BOYS. —When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Red Cross Book
DepGt, Wynyard Street, Sydney.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
who will quote you price for it.
Hudson’s “Eumenthol Jujubes”
are the most powerful, safe and pleasant Germicide
and Antiseptic known. Being destructive to all
organising which give rise to infectious diseases,
they keep the mouth in a sweet, healthy condition.
Suited for Old and Young.
Unlike cough medicines HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL
JUJUBES do not interfere with the digestion; on
the contrary, they have a beneficial effect, as their
Antiseptic Properties prevent abnormal fermenta-
tion of the food, and thus prove helpful to sufferers
from Indigestion and Dyspepsia if taken after food.
Sold everywhere, in Tins, Price 1/6. [1
FOR COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS, BRON-
CHITIS, INFLUENZA AND THE PREVENTION
OF CONSUMPTION.
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
. The Bronchial
Tubes of a Dis-
sected Lung.
The Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
m
The Red Page
The Dago as a Fighting Man
With British Guns in Italy, by Hugh
Dalton, “sometime lieutenant in the Royal
Garrison Artillery,'’ tells in good style what
the writer saw of the 31 years’ scrapping
under the Alps and thereabouts. The
British share was small, but the men had a
good front seat in the last act. In the
army which, between June and October,
1918, brought the Holy Roman Empire to
its spectacular downfall, there were 51
Italian divisions, three British and one each
of French, Czeeho-Slovak and United' States.
Dalton sums up the Italian as a fearless and
capable soldier, a superb engineer and ' a
real bloke. An interesting part of the story
is his version of the disaster at Caporetto,
which divided the campaign into two sections.
There were two years of steady success for
the Italians in which they did remarkable
deeds of perpendicular warfare. Then the
line was broken by the help of a new German
army released from Russia, and a wholesale
retreat set in to the line of the Piave, and
Europe thought Italy had seen its finish. It
took nearly a year of dogged defence under
a new leader to fit the army for a new
advance. But when it came the break-up of
the Hun wasn’t even dignified. ___
For the Caporetto disaster Dalton blames
the High Command. It began as the sort
of episode which happens in every campaign
—the sort which befell Gough’s army in
France, to quote only one instance. But
in Gough’s case French and Australians and
others were shoved into the opening, and
the leak was closed, just as other leaks had
been closed. At Caporetto the' High Com-
mand was on the spot, for the arrival of
German reinforcements thereabouts was
known, and seemed to mark it as a scene of
activity, while in the similar case in France
there were no premonitory symptoms to
show that one part of the line was more
shaky than another, and the supreme brass-
hat of neither army was right there. Secon-
dary brass-hats had to face the first rush of
trouble. But the Tall Command at
Caporetto was divided between two opinions.
It planned a powerful offensive and brought
great masses of artillery to the front. Then
it considered a defensive and left too much
artillery too far to the front. When the
Ilun rush came an amazing amount of ex-
posed artillery was lost, and apparently the
Command lost its head. There were no less
than 12 prepared lines of defence to retire
upon one by one, and they were all aban-
doned for want of coherent instructions
about rallying-points. It was the end of
Commander-in-Chief Cadorna, whose hysteri-
cal despatch denouncing the cowardice of his
soldiers was suppressed by the Government,
and Diaz set to work to organise victory out
of the ruins.
The little British force wasn’t in the
wreck at Caporetto, but it had to do much
swift retreating to avoid getting too much
successful Hun in its rear. In this connec-
tion Dalton mentions that the British general
(not named) left early per motor-car to
avoid the crush, and that, though transport
was desperately scarce, the Staff’s baggage
and 20.000 cigarettes were saved. The
general afterwards opened a canteen for the
sale of the cigarettes. The British guns
were unable to turn and rend their pursuers
for want of ammunition, but after days of
super-human exertion they reached com-
parative safety at Treviso and the draggled
conductors learned that their chief was at
lunch and in the best of condition. He
made no speech of thanks to his troops and
published no address. These are the things
that a sometime lieutenant can mention. A
lieutenant who wasn’t “sometime” might
find it advisable to be more reticent.—
(Methuen and Co., London.)
Fallen Cherry Blossom
Lafcadio Hearn sang a good prose song, a
sort of meticulous mosaic of carefully-chosen
words, rather in the manner of a Japanese
print—-conventional, but highly colored; stiff,
but curiously luminous. His missionary
praises of Japanese culture, Japanese charm,
Japanese inherent ascetism and unworldly
view of life, would be, I think, with those of
Brinkley, as much a literary surprise now as
they were on their first appearance, but for a
different reason. Andre Bellesort tells us
in Le Nouveau Japon that he made his pil-
grimage to Matsue to find that no one had
any interest or curiosity in the matter of
Hearn; only diligent inquiry discovered even
where Hearn’s house had been, so totally had
the man and his work for artistic Japan
been forgotten. In that forgetting, I see
the last petal fall from the cherry-tree.
The Oriental joy in the passing years and
their dark trees and flowers blooming un-
aided ,is gone; in its place the spirit of
‘fight” and endeavor stands, warily, sword in
hand. The sword is held not only over the
commerce, but over the hearts and imagina-
tions of Hearn’s gentle mystic dilettanti who
watched the centuries go by in the garden.
The little songs that were sung for the
neighbors and the few passers-by have be-
come a growing literature, a literature striv-
ing to assimilate the Occidental vigor with
the Oriental peace and introspection. The
great dramatic models have been set up one
b.v one—Shaw, Ibsen, Shakspeare (who is
too devastatingly immodest) —and one by
one discarded. It is all too strong and
” I J ec I t — fo ° foreign in thought and motive.
Ot the West, only Anatole France seems tft
take-a permanent place of inspiration for the
modern “literary” Japanese novelist. For
tlie rest the influence is Russian. As M.
Bellesort argues, that is reasonable. Russia
m the meeting-place of East and West; and
Borki, Tchekov, Audrhiev and the others
write the psychological situations nearest
now to the Japanese heart—the same prob-
lems stand in the Japanese path to a con-
sistent harmony of Western needs and
Eastern blood. In poetry the Far East still
sits in the paper-house under the twisted
tree, making the pungent epigrams of the
old years: there is no change yet.
In religion Buddha walks hand in hand
with the statesmen towards the new destiny,
the destiny that must be fought for with
the weapons of the upstart West. Im-
perialistic thought has been forced by per-
vasive, undeniable direction in the schools,
at the expense of beloved history, of dogma,
of beliefs that were old and rooted in the
people’s soul centuries ago. The Shintoists
take readily the eagerly-given largesse of
place and power; and Buddha sits by the
wayside with his uplifted hand, smiled on
and perfunctorily soothed, but not too
strictly obeyed. And somehow the Eastern
leiigion has beeu harnessed without inter-
nal mishap to tire Western hope. Patriotism
has become religion.
The domestic life that flowed on and on
beside the drooping chrysanthemums in the
gardens has been rent asunder by the Re-
naissance Central Railway Station at Tokyo,
lhe men who picked tea or worked in the
iice-lields are professional men with no
illusions, or their sons soon will be. Thev
take the electric train in Yokohama, past
p g^'dwis and th<> far-off white
.hadow of Fuji, en route for a day’s golf.
In Ueno 1 ark they walk under the clouds
in the cherry-trees, discussing a publicity
campaign in Melbourne. And, as they talk,
"7 1 , wait 0111 - y a little while, they
-“--the last petal fall, to be trampled
underfoot on the road.
HILARY LOFTING.
Bulldogs
Thomas Henry Huxley has long been
known as Darwin’s bulldog, both for his con-
tributions to Darwinian biology and his in-
defatigable energy in spreading evolutionary
ideas. But Darwin had bulldogs in Germany
as well—Carl Vogt, and in particular Ernst
Haeckel, whose death was reported lately.
Haeckel had just the mental acuity, the
energy, the eagerness for battle and the zoo-
logical knowledge necessary for one who
took upon himself the leadership in the
world-wide controversy over the newer con-
ception of Man and the Cosmos.
Born at Potsdam in 1834, Haeckel was
educated at Berlin and Wurzburg under such
men as Muller _ and Virchow. After gradu-
ating in medicine he commenced the study
of comparative anatomy, and at 28 was
appointed to the Chair of Zoology at Jena,
Where he remained until his retirement in
1909. With, the publication of the “Origin
of Species” his mindjbecame filled with the
splendor of the organic evolution theory,
and m book after book—he was always a
prodigious writer—he popularised the doc-
trine of the descent of man. Huxley himself
was not slow to realise the services of his Ger-
man colleague, and wrote: “Whatever hesi-
tation may not infrequently be felt by less
daring minds in following Haeckel in many of
his speculations, his attempts to systematise
the doctrine of evolution and to exhibit its
influence as the central thought in modern
biology cannot fail to have a far-reaching
influence on the progress of science.”
Haeckel’s earlier works on “General Mor-
phology” and the “History of Creation”
serve as brilliant attempts to fill the gaps in
the line of man’s development, and they hold
a prominent place in the history of though *
-Later in life he turned to philosophy, ex-
pounding a philosophic monism. His general
n to§§u° n of faith is to be found in “The
Biddle of the Universe”—a book of ex-
tremely wide circulation— and the supple-
mentary volume, “The Wonders of Life.”
With the impartial outlook of a scientist he
saw the past history of our earth as a brief
period of a few thousand years which
measures the duration of civilisation—an
evanescent episode in the long course of
organic evolution. And the earth itself as
a mere speck in a sunbeam in the illimi-
table universe, where man is but a tiny grain
of protoplasm in the perishable frame-work
of organic nature. With this outlook he
naturally regarded reason as man’s highest
gift, and aimed to kindle a rational interest
I ®. and to free the world from super-
stition by large daily doses of undiluted
materialism.
REG. S. ELLERY.
The Aussie Abroad
“Centurion” draws his sword :
I" lt: s, review of Cutlack’s book on the last work
of the Five Divisions in France, The Bulletin said
that of all the thing’s that happened to the Austra-
lians, it likes best the welcome given them by the
fleeing French inhabitants when the Diggers re-
turned to their old stamping-grounds on the Somme
to hold back the oncoming Hun. The Bulletin's
admiration is shared by everyone who has seen the
Australian domiciled among alien peoples.
But unfortunately there are people who will write
about what they have not seen. One of these is
the Right Hon. J. If. Robertson, who had an article
in a recent Contemporary on “The Rising in Egypt.”
Mr. Robertson puts it all down to the awful conduct
of the “Colonial troops” in Egypt, which is to say,
the Australians. He doesn’t seem to have any first-
hand evidence of his own, but quotes in support of
his libel some remarks by a Miss M. E. Denham, who
apparently acted as a canteen assistant somewhere
near Cairo when the troops were coming back from
Anzac. This lady told him that the drunkenness of
the Australians brought them into contempt with the
natives, which feeling was aggravated by their cruel
and “rude” conduct towards the natives. “An excel-
lent canteen boy” in her employ was beaten by an
Australian, and “an educated native” was insulted And
his “inlaid walking-stick” taken from him. On this
evidence Mr. Robertson blames Australia for the
Egyptian revolt, and remarks on the folly of putting
ignorant troops in the midst of peoples of whose re-
ligious and domestic practices and customs they know
nothing.
Answering the last remark first, one can say with
confidence that the Australians were easily the best-
informed and most widely-read troops under arms.
They were specially instructed to avoid giving offence
to religion or women wherever they went, and being
clear-headed, clean-going men they for the most part
followed their instructions. As regards the assaults,
in some months’ experience of Egypt, three of which
were spent as adjutant of a brigade headquarters, I
never saw or heard of a man being “up” for an
assault on a native, though the latter, who are more
indiscriminately flogged and knocked about by their
own police and bosses than any other native people
(Continued on page 28.)


Jk
XL
Cx79.
Cv 121.
R
Cxl6B.
y 55
Cx 172.
wtim
\
Cxl3B.
I
CxBl.
Economy in Silverplate
it Anthony Horderns’
T'HE Silverplate Department at Anthony
Horderns’ abounds in the best examples
of the silversmith’s art, each article being
not only ornate but distinctly useful. The
Silverplate can be relied upon to give good
service and look well, too. The heavy plat-
ing on the nickel-silver or Britannia-metal
base ensures these excellent qualities.
Anthony Horderns’ Silverplate combines
quality and economy, as the selections
from the large and varied assortments here
illustrated show.
THE SILVERPLATE ILLUSTRATED.
Cx79.—Dinner Cruet, Silver-plated on Nickel Silver, with 4 Cut
Glass Bottles • 42/-
Cxl72.—Jewel Casket, Silver-plated, choice engine-turned design,
Satin lined 30/-
Cxl6B.—Bake Dish, Silver-plated, with loose Enamelled lining,
I 38/6
Cxl6s.—Carvers, in handsome Velvet- and Silk-lined Case, best
Sheffield make, Nvlonite (white) Handles, 3 pieces in case —
20/-, 21/-, 22/6, 25/-, 27/6, 30/-, 32/6, 37/6
Cxl2o.—Teapot, Silver-plated on Britannia Metal, li pint. . 35/-
Cxl2l.—Sugar and Cream Stand, Silver-plated on Nickel Silver,
38/6
Cx9l.—Jam Dish, Silver-plated on Britannia Metal, cover prettily
engraved 20/-
Cxl3B.—Hot-water Kettle, Silver-plated on Britannia Metal, en-
graved festoon design. 2-pint size 90/-
CxBl.—Flower Stand, Silver-plated, charming effect, with Iridescent
Glass Vases 55/-
Cxl73. —Bake Dish, Silver-plated, with loose Enamelled lining, 38/6
Cx67. —Nut Dish and Cracks, Silver-plated on Nickel Silver, 37/6
Cxl76. —Hot-water Jug, Silver-plated on Britannia Metal . . 37/6
Cxs9.—Cake Basket, Silver-plated on Nickel Silver 37/6
Cx6B.—Salad or Fruit Bowl and Servers, clear press glass dish,
35/-
Cx2o.—“Ormonde,” Black Enamelled Iron Clock, 8-day; Gong
Strike; height, llin.; width, 12in. ; Enamelled Dial .... 75/-
CxlBo.—Rose Bowl, Silver-plated on Britannia Metal .... 42/-
We pay carriage on Silverplate to any part of N.S.W.; on inter-
state orders to nearest port. Clocks, postage extra.
Cxl73.
CxG7.
Cxl6s
Cxl76.
Cxs9.
Cx6B.
I
v
as
m
CxlBo.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, UZ
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
s£>uve\^
605j8 i~iekfield
Sydniey.


9k
I
A
A
m
▲
*
NV\x
"
For Interiors Use Lottoid
Plaster Sheets.
Very pleasing effects can be secured if your interior
Piaster "sheef 11 !: 88 a,e ° f These
plaster-sheets have a smooth, glossy finish and are
Jo-day »»<•<■ extensively because of the ;• many advan-
tages over ordinary ceilings and wall materials.
drtin. ‘V'"' Brisbane or Sydney office for full
details. We are agents in N.S.W. and Queensland.
Lessen Building Costs
Use Durabestos Cement
Sheets and Slates.
These hydraulically-compressed slates and sheets
mean building economy for you. Easy to erect
outlay^ 6 a llfetlme of gootl seivice at a reasonable
Its Years of Service
Built Adamax Reputation
SUM total quality summed up is years of service. The quality
of “Adamax” measured by the years of honest wear it gives
makes “Adamax” the roofing.you should order for permanence,
utility and economy.
Extra service is built into it by superior workmanship out of
materials that make it hard to wear out. The exclusive finish given
to. “Adamax” Roofing after the long-fibred felt has been thoroughly
saturated with pure mineral Asphaltum means real insurance
against roofing troubles.
Send for free copy of our descriptive pamphlet and also for sample
and learn the facts. We will also be pleased to go into details.
WILLIAM ADAMS & CO.
175 Clarence Street. SYDNEY.
LTD.
NE — 52l - 3 Co!lins Street.
ADELAIJDE. —96 Currie Street,
BRISBANE.—Cr. Edward and Mary Streets.
PERTH.—33 Kin? Street.
i asmanian Representative.-
Newcastle Representative.—
-31 a Cameron Street, LAUNCESTON.
Howard Smith Chambers, Watt Street, NEWCASTLE.
A
■


f
> GARTERS
No meial
can loucK you
The modern and most
com/ortalle Garter.
The kneeling figure and
oval trademark is always
on Paris Garters— YOUR
guarantee of satisfaction.
Obtainable all Mercers.
Indents and V h ’esale:
Walter Cathro Pty. Ltd., 50 York St., Sydney.
ƒ
DESIGNED
FOR COMFORT.
WORN FOR STYLE.
Abbey Shoes convey distinctive dressy
:in~'paranee. Their high qualitv reveals
itself after long wear, and will appeal
to your sense of economy.
We illustrate a high-grade Patent Derby
Bal.
Price 50/-
Also in Tan Willow Calf,
Price 47/6.
In half and full sizes and narrow, medium
and wide fittings.
Postage extra.
tVRITE FOR CATALOG.
ABBEY.
313 George Street,
Between (1.P.0. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
Used the
World Over
m
m
C 2
MOTOR
...CARS
Jell iW Tzdz 'J&fiM
sgsrsv!
i^cfur
ill
mm
vm
0
&
m
IS
BOSTOGK’S LIQUID DRESSING
THE SIGN OF
PERFECTION
FOR
Black & Brown Suede.
You can make your Suede Shoes look smart and new always, by
the regular use of Bostock’s Liquid Dressing.
It is economical and DOES NOT RUB OFF.
OBTAINABLE ANYWHERE.
BOSTOCK’S VIOLO POLISHES LTD., Sydney.
f
f
The Brand and the
Texture, both protect you.
Underwear
Is British through and through—the
Brand protects you against inferior
German-made goods.
New •'Olympic" Brand.
Owing to the high pi ices of the yarns front which
Jason All-wool goods are made, the manufacturers
have introduced temporarily lower lines containing
a percentage of cotton—bearing the same guarantee
of quality as the regular lines. Your dealer will
supply you. Sole manufacturers:
Jason Underwear Co., Leicester, Eng.
Ab 66 Cf>
ƒ
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BV
APPOINTMENT
ƒ
TO
H-M. THE KINO.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
ALLAYS THE IRRITATION OF INSECT BITES.
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Etc.
SCRUBB & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA,
f
li
II
Sherwiwmuams
Prepared.
The best paint for all buildings—inside and outside; particularly
for surfaces exposed to the severe heat of the Australian sun
during Summer. Apply “S-W-P” NOW and have your property
fully protected before the Summer days arrive. Color-cards on
request.
THE
EARTH
The Sh erwin-Williams Co (Australia)Ltd.
Head Office : 63 Pitt Street, Sydney,
Distributors:
SYDNEY: Watson & Crane, Ltd.; G. E. Crane & Sons, Ltd.
MELBOURNE: James McEwan & Co.
ADELAIDE: Colton, Palmer & Preston, Ltd.
PERTH: A. C. McCallum, Ltd.
BRISBANE: R. S. Exton & Co., Ltd.
Agents in all principal towns throughout Australasia.
VARIOUS
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Creek.
Do you remember how we woke
From slumber’s sweet enchantment bidden
By lyre-birds calling clear, yet hidden
In some grey glade of river-oak?
As if upon a crystal flute
A wizard’s lips in laughter dallied,
Note upon note seductive sallied,
And then grew magically mute,
To rise again as sharp and sweet.
Flooding with song the creek’s curved
hollow,
Till we could do naught else but follow
The mocking lure on eager feet!
Do you remember how the dew
Lay yet so thick there was no snapping
Of fallen twigs? And quail went flapping
Up from our feet before we knew?
Mossed stepping-stones peeped ever out
’Twixt oak-dropped tapers grey and spiny,
And sudden maiden-hair, and tiny
Cold and blue flowers were strewn about.
And in the pools the water-weeds,
Greener than aught in earth's green
measure,
Swayed ever with the drowsy pleasure
That aimless movement sometimes breeds.
The water-spiders skimmed and sped
With lucent shadows sprawling quaintly ;
We heard far peewits crying faintly,
And oh, the rapt thrush overhead !
Do you remember how we stept
From stone to stone, nor thought to ,
slacken
Till up the bank through burnished
bracken
We spied a glade all sunlight-swept?
And there I plucked a posy gay
And gave it you with lover’s laughter.
And then! And then! But what came
after
Is e’en too sweet for me to say !
N.S.W.
NINA MURDOCH.
In the Pine Avenue.
The wind in the pine avenue forgets it once
was warm ;
Although the lightning bares the sky in
shudderings of storm
The dark boles stand to mock the road like
signless finger-posts,
Ar.d where the sodden needles lie each foot-
fall is a ghost’s.
Blown inland from a shipless sea there
comes a rush of rain ;
The voices of the wistful boughs are plead- I
ings raised in vain ;
The cold, wan moon above the crests that
scarcely dares to show J
Is as a woman’s watching face—forgotten
long ago!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
The Hidden Rainbow.
Wot trees in the sun,
Splash of the fast-falling rain ;
The blurred sky with a stain
Of darker clouds that run
From the rift the light has won.
While the glitter, golden and vain,
Flames upon leaf and pane.
Like the sweet of a good deed done.
Fall and flash of the wet,
Opal fire in the tree;
The small streams have met
To gurgle merrily.
IIow should my heart regret
The rainbow it cannot see?
N.S.W.
D. M. W.
Hospital Hill.
Little Maloney? Yes, I know,
From Hospital Hill. He drove the mail.
A quiet boy he was, thin and pale
(By Hospital Hill the road runs low),
With a soldier’s badge in his buttonhole,
In the days before Black Death took toll
Everyone knew his sulky and pony,
Everyone looked for little Maloney
(On Hospital Hill the road climbs high).
He came to Hospital Hill to die.
Early and late the mail goes by,
And there’s a new driver for Ihe grey pony ;
Only the the nurses look, and sigh
“Poor little Maloney!”
N.S.W.
McENSAY.
Memories.
When Death’s cold hand has chilled my
fevered brow
And closed my weary eyes in dreamless
sleep ;
When Mother Earth has claimed her own
at last
And only the bright stars mv vigils keep.
I would not have you come with tear-dimmed
eyes,
Lamenting that inexorable fate
To which all life beneath the sun is doomed.
Death comes to king and beggar, soon or
late.
But when the daylight dies, and twilight
steals
Upon the soft and silent wings of Night,
When all is hushed save some soft whisper-
ing breeze
Kissing the blushing roses in its flight,
Then think of me as in the yester years,
When Youth and Love and all the world
was ours; .
When hearts beat high with pass ; on’s after-
glow,
And Care’s dull path was hidden deep in
flowers.
N.S.W.
W. J. THOMAS.


FOR EVERY
MOTOR-CYCLE.
w
oy> ?
/P
Australian-made
Perdriau Tyres.
There is no reason why Australian Car and
Motor-cycle Owners should use foreign tyres,
but there are several excellent reasons why they
should use only Australian.
The Perdriau New Super-Tread Tyre, built up
on principles established by our Laboratory
Staff’s exhaustive tests of the last few years,
has proved itself beyond doubt to be un-
equalled for Australian conditions. There is
no better tyre, but most others are more
expensive.
j
THE PERDRIAU RUBBER GO. LTD.
270 George Street, SYDNEY.
And at
MELBOURNE, BRISBANE,
ADELAIDE and PERTH.
FOR EVERY
MOTOR-CAR.
o
HI
c:
i
m
i
Denyer’s Artificial Arms
get as near to the human member
for utility and appearance as is
scientifically possible.
Incorporated in each Limb are
tiie most modern features for
easy adjustment and greater con-
fidence in handling everyday
implements, such as a knife, fork,
hook or brush.
Our advice on matters of Arti-
ficial Arms and Legs and
Crutches, as well as Trusses, Ab-
dominal Belts, Elastic Hosiery
and other Surgical Appliance's
would he invaluable to persons
m need of physical assistance.
In your own interest call per-
sonally, or write to us with every
confidence—our 25 years’ experi-
ence is at your service.
f
f
Makers of Trusses,
Abdominal Belts
and Artificial Limbs,
VS
Denyer Bros.,
281 George Street, SYDNEY.
sT
5
5t
KJ
/
&
,Hi;/nnfri7Hiii'iiLUiiia
5Ts
IN
ham
'» bacon
ONGUE.
VE At
MD
“ii
m
m
m
\\
/2\
Lxy
A Tin Should Be in Every
Home
As an emergency dish there is nothing quite
so appetising and sure-to-be-enjoyed as
“Rex" Camp Pie. It is always ready to
serve instantly—always fresh, tasty, and
wholesome. But you should also serve
“Rex” Camp Pie
as regular fare. It is cheaper than fresh
meat —and just as wholesome. It saves all
cooking and there is no waste.
TRY CAMP PIE SERVED HOT
Immerse the tin in boiling water for twenty
minutes and it is ready. Turns out in good
shape, with a fine gravy that makes it ever
so good.
SOLD BY GROCERS EVERYWHERE
A TIN SHOULD BE IN EVERY STORE
It is rare indeed to find a store that does not stock “REX” CAMP
PIE. But the other "Rex” Delicacies are also in keen demand.
Stock the full line and secure the “Rex” business of your locality.
It pays!
FOGG ITT, JONES & CO., LTD.
Packers of “Rex" Pure Food Products
Curers of “Rex" Hams and Bacon
J J 25
SAV-
DOYOOKNOW'
WHO X AM?— ,
XKBO/AP— <
th‘ roughest (
Joirr ha
~m’ COUNTY.'/
Vi
ZATiO?
WELL DO
YOO KNOW,
WHO x AM
TM GOODRICH-)
TH'.TOUGHEST,
nj RE-IN
\TH’WORLD
Goodrich Safety Tread Tyres
QUALITY FIRST is ever the upper-
most thought in the production of
Goodrich Tyres, and governs every step
of procedure, from the purchase of the
raw materials to the final inspection.
THE RESULT is Ty res of such super-
excellence that they SERVE BETTER,
LAST LONGER, and give much greater
satisfaction than those made to sell on
price.
GOODRICH TYRES are practical
tyres, big mileage producers and
“BEST IN THE LONG RUN”
ONE TRIAL WILL WIN YOU.
OBTAINABLE ALL GARAGES.
DUVAL <a CO.
124 Russell St,
13 Castlereagh St.,
HORSHAM HOUSE,
Adelaide St.,
MELBOURNE. SYDNEY. BRISBANE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 40.—N0. 2064.
THU USD AY, SEPTEMBER 4, 1919.
Fkice 6d.
THE ALARM.
“The world’s troubles have been 'transferred to the Pacific.”
AUSTRALIA: “Where are we going so fast?”
THE GRIM PERSON: “We’re going to buy you a gun, my lad. You may need it.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
I or £1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have The Bulletin
sent regularly to you, every week lor a year, to any
ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence ” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Talcs
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
8009 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
trill be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tub Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Bui
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these,
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the ropy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Tim Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to Tub Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or ivash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.c., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic, contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — 'The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
HC.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., 1,1,1 Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
■ L-B.A.—-V. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco ; Childs News Agency,
corner■ Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
V.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., 181,9 Conway Buildings,
Chicago, U.S.A.
Honolulu.— Home News Agency, 7 63 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Iloung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Ilong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of Tiie Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland.
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise; Soz., lid.; Bioz. to 10oz., 3d.;
JOoz. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, Jjoz., lid., and id. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 1919.
A MAN OF BOSH AND BILLIONS.
.... “All the kingdoms of the world and the glory
of them.... All these things will I give Thee if
Thou wilt fall down and worship me.” — The Devil
on top of a high mountain in Scripture; also John
StorSY on top of a high peroration at Mudgee.
John Storey, leader of the Labor party in
the State with most population and most
debt, speaks as a man who sees a wide field
of endeavor before him and is resolved to
sow thistles and other ass-fodder on every
inch of it. There have been programmes of
Bosh and Billions in Australia before, but
none like this. There isn’t enough money in
all the State and all the possible loan mar-
kets elsewhere to carry it out. A revenue
of £50,000,000 instead of the present
£22,000,000 or so wouldn’t suffice. Under
the Labor regime which lasted from 1910 to
the end of 1916 (mostly peace-time) the
outgoings were rushed up from £16,000.000
to £27,000,000 per annum, and still not a
hundredth part of the things John Storey
promises were even attempted.
A leading feature of the Storey pro-
gramme is the spending of £50,000,000 on
artesian bores and water conservation. The
artesian area of N. S. Wales is well enough
known, and it is already dotted with so
many bores that the flow in many places
shows signs of failure. Apparently the
crop of water is constantly replenished by
soakage; but if the old stock is drawn upon
faster than the new crop of water comes in,
it will be necessary to let the field lie fallow
for a while. The latest published figures
showed 491 bores actually running in N. S.
Wales, and the sinking, before water was
struck was as deep as 4086 ft. The cost of
sinking in the West used to be about 15s.
per foot. It is now about 30s. If 4910 or
5000 new bores were sunk to a depth
of 4000 ft. each at 30s. per foot (say
£20,000,000), there might be less water than
there is now —in other words, there might
not be enough pressure to force the water
out of a single one of £20,000,000 worth of
holes and orifices. The whole 491 bores
(815.088 ft. of sinking) yielded in 1917
nearly 96,000,000 gallons of water per day.
That is to say, they would supply two c’tms
the size of Sydney with drinking and w >sh-
ing fluid and leave a trifle over. This
wouldn’t irrigate ranch, even if the water
was fit for irrigation, and most of it
isn’t. N. S. Wales really only possesses the
tail end of the great artesian area, which
otherwise lies in Queensland, S. Aus. and
the X. Territory; also it has a separate
scrap of the smaller area down south. In
fact, it apparently gets what water isn’t
intercepted by the 2516 bores in Queensland,
which go down over 5000 ft. There is no-
thing unlimited about boring possibilities.
As for water conservation, where it is roost
wanted the rivers have a habit of being dry
for years so that there is nothing to con-
serve. and the things that can’t be grown
profitably under irrigation are very numer-
ous,* anyway. Further, the more the irriga-
tion costs the fewer-the things that can be
grown at a profit.
The Ma State already possesses far more
public loan works than there are customers
for, and far too many of the customers are
people who live by building new loan works.
As one example, in 1870 there were 1471
people to pay for and supply, work for each
mile of railway; in 1880 there were 881; in
1800 there were 523; in 1000 there were
482; in 1910 the number was 443. The latest
figures show about 415, and there must be
a breaking point somewhere. Holman says
work has been slow by reason of the war,
and is going to be hustled. Storey, on the
other hand, says Holman doesn’t even know
the rudiments of hustling. He proposes, in
brief, to take everybody out of other manual
occupations and put the whole lot, together
with everybody who can be attracted from
outside, on to building loan works and bor-
ing loan holes. The Man of Bunkum and
Billions says:—
Hie only limit 1o our public works policy will
he the supply of labor.
And when the sort of industry which can
only pay such wages as are permitted by
the selling value of the article produced
comes in competition with the loan industry
which can value the article produced at
twice or 100 times what it will sell for and
pay wages accordingly, the former loses all
the labor it has and the latter gets all the
labor there is. Storey doesn’t even hint that
lus public works policy will be limited by
SUPPLY of money—not even by thousands
of millions of money, lie doesn’t even men-
tion money. Yet he hasn’t at his disposal the
Bolshevik device of issuing paper currency,
paper being a purely Federal matter. He
can t. raise more money in Britain or
America than those countries think it safe
to lend, and Britain, being no longer a
place with surplus money to lend, but an
indebted one like our own, isn’t likely to
have 2d. to advance for dubious schemes.
As for local loans, they are only paper, of
no value for buying imported' plant for
~OT, T * \ r^T. OREY ’ s & reat Projects of Madness
and Millions. Even these loans can only
amount to as much paper as the Federal
Government consents to print, and only as
much of that as happens to be in the State
wlieie John Storey is to rule, and doesn’t
happen to be in a Federal institution like
the Commonwealth Bank, or joint-stock
ones like the Union, Australasia, E. S. and
A., London, National, Commercial of Aus-
tralia. Victoria, Royal, Queensland, Queens-
land National, Adelaide, and New Zealand
which have their head offices elsewhere and
can keep their heavy reserves outside John
Storeys jurisdiction. Besides, banking
legislation is a Federal affair, and -all banks
are to a great extent outside John Storey’s
jurisdiction. Theoretically a great deal can
be done by confiscating big estates and
monopolies ; but even if the whole State
was confiscated its soiling value would be to
all intents and purposes only the quantity
th n I « i d< ; ial n< ! tcs that happened to be in
the State, and, as already hinted, most of
tion 11 mi§ht bG torn in tlle sc,lffle of collec-
* * * .
These public works, however, are to be
only a drop in the bucket of John Storey’s
policy. Other things include :—■
Adequate living-allowances for widows and grass-
widows. Wife desertion to be paid for by the
State. Liberal subsidy for all children in a family
of over average size—that is, presumably, for all
beyond four, or maybe three.
Free medical treatment and nursing for all mothers
and expectant mothers.
State old-age and invalid pensions, in addition to
the existing Federal pensions.
A fixed and liberal minimum price for wheat, to
promote the growing of an abundance for export,
though John Storey will not have an atom of con-
trol over the price the export wheat will fetch.
The establishment of a Rural Bank, to make
liberal advances on the land which has a fancy value
by reason of the wheat minimum.
The subsidising of “co-operative and municipal
enterprises. ’
Subsidies to prospectors so that thev mav go out
to Took for the pot of gold that is buried at the
end of the rainbow. Also State batteries and ore-
treatment works.
Subsidies to local bodies.
More water supply and sewerage and hydro-electric
works than were ever dreamed of before.
University education for all. Free technical edu-
cation for all Free books and school requisites for
all More and larger bursaries.
Hospital treatment for all. Also free dentistry
fnothing said about free chiropody and hair-cutting)
Less work the hours of labor being reduced. More
wages fm the less work. Cheaper food, though both
the wheat that makes the loaf and the making of
the loaf are to cost more.
Mines to be taken over and worked bv civil ser-
vants on day wages.
All unemployed to be maintained by the State.
The Commonwealth to be compelled (presumably
by declaration of war) to fulfil its promises to
dants erS ’ Sailo1 ’ S and war-workers and their depen*
Taxation upon the poor to be reduced, though it is
difficult to find that the poor pay anv except Federal
£aWt reduce 0 ™ 8 and eXCISe) wh ’’ ch Joh * Storey
. Monopolies if there are any within John Storey’s
junsdiction, to be obliterated. Unfortunately there
!,nd „ S °, little bi * in
the Ma State th;>t it will be hard to find local
monopolies to obliterate. 01
There are many other things, but these
are a few to go on with. The programme
suggests a maddened candidate' for the
mayoral rabbit-skins who mistakes himself
tor a Roman emperor in Rome’s grandest
days. The emperor might have failed on
John Storey’s policy, but he could at least
have had a good try at it. He had under
his control the world’s best army and navv
and all the world’s greatest capitalists and
monopolists. His empire owed no man any-
thing, and he was answerable only to
Jupiter. A Lenin or Trotsky could also
have a good try, hut the glorified applicant-
mayor of Bosh and Billions is on a hopeless
wicket.
A ROAD-PATCHING LOAN AND
OTHER CURIOSITIES.
Dublng the few days which preceded the
opening of Parliament the N. S. Wales
Premier was busy bearing words of con-
solation throughout the country. He un-
folded many things, including a great scheme
for repairing roads —repairing them as well
as bhilding them —with loan money; and
when this is carried out practically the only
thing in the State which isn’t repaired out
of loans will be Holman’s own pants. But
in the first place the Premier spread himself
on the railway and land-settlement policy:
First in order there stands one important group
of five lines. These will open up large areas of
Crown lands suitable for returned men. They are—
Barmedman to Hankine’s Springs (544 miles) ; Grif-
fith to Hillston (464 miles) ; to
Burren Junction (50 miles) ; Gilmore to Batlow (16
miles) ; Yanco to Griffith (32 miles). Total, 199
miles.
These lines the Commonwealth has arranged to
finance out of the proceeds of the forthcoming War
Loan. They will make available 130 b farms for
soldiers.
The programme also includes the building
of nine other railways, making 14 in all;
and the Government is “anxious” about two
more, making 16. The chief interest, how-
ever, centres in the first five. The latest
cheap line which the State opened in easy
country cost £4357 per mile, and the bill for
rolling-stock had to be added to that. On
this basis the 199 miles of line will cost
£867,043, in their bare state, so 1305 farm-
ers are to be settled at an average cost of
£664 for railways alone, with the value of
the land added, plus the capital required to
put up houses, fences, tanks, etc., to buy seed
and stock and implements, and to keep the
less affluent settlers going till the first crop
is sold, plus the cost of roads (to be built
and repaired out of loans), for man does
not live by railways alone.
* * * *
The places from which the 199 miles
of line (to settle 1305 families) start
oor o • tai ? t from Sydney respectively 315,
c. 1.5, 343, 373 and 394 miles. At last census
their aggregate population was 2639 (from
1172 down to nil). Four of the five des-
tinations are beyond the line which, in 1904
was estimated as the limit of profitable
" heat cultivation. Of the other nine rail-
ways, they are of various sorts, including
the one to Broken Hill. Those that the
Government is “anxious” about include the
railway from Kyogle to the Queensland
border, to provide a greatly shortened line
to Brisbane and furnish a lot of N S
V* ales farmers with a big market 500 miles
nearer to them than Sydney, and to generally
fm ni ?7 f° r the .- Cabil l ( ; t ' s all eged craving
foi decentralisation. On this matter the
Queensland Government, by the mouth of
Minister Fiiielly, replies after this fashion,
though not precisely in these words • -
lrul i ex t i e oGv y th rS ag °’ the f S ‘ Wales Government
iiaci exactly the same craving for a short Hop trv
Brisbane, via Tweed Heads and Murwillumbah thus
aStoTlnk?rnn nd -f vinB ' its northern farmers
access to a maiket 000 miles nearer than Svdnev
Queensland did its share bv widening and
strengthening its coast line to the border. ° d
+i lN ' j , hasn’t connected to this day thouirh
other. ndS ° f the tW ° lill6S al ' e almost in si ght of each
tion ie o',’,tf g On° P LM 1 N " S , prese , nt attitL,de as niere- elec-
tion j,uff Queensland won t talk about the Kvo°-le-
Beaudesert raUway until the old broken promise r e
desire to' This because P it has no
aesne to be sold a second time.
* *
The proposal to borrow £2,000,000 for road-
patching, repayable in 50 years or at the next
n-irt ofT the i ea i ter> i. s also an essential
on the f lond W °A k setting returned soldiers
on the land. As I remier Holman expounds
° f f . alli °.g. off a lo g doesn’t com-
C ( - Jt for - sini Plicity. When the State
went in for systematic Local Government
about 13 years ago it had 33,000 miles of pretty
good road (presumably this doesn’t include
streets, lanes and alleys), so that there were
4b people to pay for the repair of each mile
ot road. Now there are over 80,000 miles of
bad road > whi cb means that there are
about 24 people to pay for the repair of each
mile. Loads were built wholesale to help
wheat-growers and others out to remote
places where they couldn’t live, and there
were 13 years of road-razzle and then a dead-
lock and a burst up. But while highways
could be built out of loans by any fool who
could get loans, no one had the effrontery io
talk about repairing them with loans. It is
now proposed, however, to spend an average
or. £25. of borrowed money per mile of road,
tais being spread over five years, to patch up
the rums At the end of five years (say in
1Q24) the problem will start again 'just
where it is now, only with the additional
interest burden to meet and still more road
per inhabitant to keep up, for the Govern-
ment is.still “opening up the country” at a
rate which leaves the increase of population
hull down on the horizon. But the road-
patching loan should keep the problem from
becoming really acute again till, say, 1927,
and if Holman hasn’t found a permanent
and well-salaried billet by then and fled from
the trouble, he is a loser of opportunities.
* » • »
If a Coalition Govefnment is justified at all
it is that it may possibly be strong enough to
resist the temptation to go crooked for the
sake of support. One after the other strug-
gling parties have made larger and still lar-
ger promises to the electors, and have spent
tens of millions of borrowed money in out-
bidding their competitors for office. ' Between
1910 and 1915 the Labor Government in-
creased the public debt of N. S. Wales from
£92,000,000 to £127,000,000, and then
pulled up only because the war compelled it
to. In the last two years of that period,
when the easy policy of corruption got
thoroughly going, no less than 214 millions
were added to the public debt of the State.
The Bulletin does not say that borrowing
never was justified. It does, however, insist
that we have borrowed so extravagantly and
spent with such • utter disregard for 'value
received, that every new loan lias added to
the burdens of taxation. Wise development
oi the country would attract population Ex
penditure designed to corrupt the electorate
and buy votes has repelled population. The
f ' r hat in IQ t^ se two front
Jline. 1913, to June, 1910, no less than £lO
per head—say £5O per household— was added
to the people’s debt burden on State account
alone in A. S. Wales. And the monev was
spent so wickedly that whereas the 'state
io X^n on .^ ei '. household of five ill 1913 was
£3 19s. 2d., in 1915 it was £7 18s. 4d It
had exactly doubled in two years; and it
has increased steaaily ever since, and is now
well over £lO. Meantime there has been an
enoimous and largely unavoidable increase of
Federal debt. There never was a time in
the history of any country in the world when
there was greater need of hard economy, com-
bined with the utmost employment of the
present facilities for production, than there
is m Australia to-day. We have spent
money laying the foundations for 10 times
the population that we have acquired. We
have to got to work now and use those foun-
dations. Apart from the fact that loans
are shockingly expensive, we cannot afford
to withdraw or withhold a man from the
work of actual production. If the National
coalition party of N. S. Wales is simply
going to outbid the J.abor party there is no
justification for its existence. If, on the other
hand, it will use its combination to resist
the insidious demands for bribes, it has a
place and a value in the public life of the
BOLSHEVISM’S GOOD FRIENDS.
When the historian sits down to tabulate
the factors which allowed a kind of bastard
Bolshevism to get a footing in Australia,
one of his first headings is likely to be
I arliament and Ministries.” The poor, who,
m the nature of things, are most liable to
turn Bolshevik, have, of course, no kindly
feeling for the profiteer; and the foolish
person who arrogantly flaunts his wealth,
especially in extravagant pleasures, natu-
rally irritates them. But, generally speak-
ing,. the .worker feels no real resentment
against his boss if he is personally tolerable.
Bven the most militant rarely blame him
it their wages or their hours don’t allow
them to get much pleasure out of life. They
ascribe most of their miseries to the people
who misgovern them. Any “advanced” or
revolutionary paper will supply ample proof
of that.
* * * *
The psychology of it is simple. The boss
and the trader are there to make money
according to certain rules laid down by the
Legislature. If they are able to do it with-
out colliding against the criminal or other
Courts, they are not to be blamed. The embryo
Bolshevik would do the same thin* himself
in similar circumstances; and he knows it.
He would, moreover, be very astonished, and
even less friendly, if such people, by tin 1
practise of parsimony, impudently attempted
rm ece . lve the world as to their prosperity,
lhe toiler who is essentially direct-minded,
as against the subtler office-man who often
is the reverse, has a strong dislike of cant
and humbug. Indeed, that in part is why
he boils with anger when he considers his
1 ailiaments and the men who run them.
They . spend their lives lying to him, promis-
him goods which they never deliver, and
which he is beginning to realise they never
can or will deliver, constituted as they are.
Iliey draw incomes, proportioned roughly by
the vehemence and success of their lying,
for their career of imposition. And they
not only, tax the worker, big and little, so
that their salaries may be paid, but they
mock any Parliamentary change likely to
give him relief, in case it might somehow
prejudice themselves.
If our system of government could be
put to the present-day world as an untried
theory it would look like a fantastic joke.
I nder it the typical representative is, at
best, a second-rate man; often he is an
adventurer who has failed in other walks of
I I f®- The party in power works under an
endless stream of abuse, obstruction and mis-
representation directed, inside Parliament, by
those, who want the salaries of office, or the
prestige and pickings which come from being
associated with those in office; outside Par-
liament by wire-pullers who look to the
a* 9 v ® rn . men t : to. assist their private ventures.
All legislation is initiated at a secret meet-
ing so Secret that till the Great War began
no minutes of the proceedings had ever been
taken. The members of this body are chosen
by one man,, or here and there by a caucus,
not for special knowledge of the tremendous
jobs with which they are invested, but be-
cause they are fluent speakers; or would be
dangerous if neglected ; or, occasionally, be-
cause of their nationality or religion or dis-
trict of origin. In the Federal Parliament
IEAKCE, who had never seen a battlefield,
controlled General White, who was the
right-hand man of Biedwood. Joseph
Look became Minister for the Navy shortly
lifter he had expressed the view that our
destroyers, being “River” boats, could only
be used on rivers ; and Henry Parkes, who
like many another Treasurer could never
manage his own finances, took charge of the
finances of N.. S. Wales. Even when such
men are sufficiently competent to be worth
their salaries, they are the representatives
ot a section of the House which is distrusted
and frequently hated as well by close on one-
. . population whose destinies are
in its hands. More and more the working-
classes are beginning to clearly realise these
things. And as none of the Commonwealth’s
Parliaments show any wish to reform them-
selves the extremists are arguing that they
should be destroyed. The conclusion is. o f
course, all wrong: only the bad habits and
customs that have grown up around our
sj stem of Parliamentary Government call
tor destruction. Yet, given the present world
conditions, plus a sufficiently incompetent
1 arliament and administration, and the
theories of Bolshevism begin to seem not
altogether insane to a large class. Those
who stand in the way of the reform of our
political methods, especially as regards the
""eiation the party machines, take upon
themselves, therefore, a grave responsibility.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Mr. Ryan Asks for a Blank Cheque.
The Queensland Government puts forward a
comprehensive scheme of unemployment in-
surance. It provides that every unemployed
single person in South Queensland shall re-
ceive 17s. (id. a week and in the North
225. Gd., the rates for men with families
to be 255. and 355. respectively. Presumably
this will apply also to the woman worker;
in fact, it is impossible to imagine that she
will be left unprovided for. The relief is
not to apply to people who are out on
strike, though they may be included later.
The really big trouble in a really big row,
however, isn’t so much the people who are
on strike as the people who are out of work
through other people being on strike. The
strikers can be counted; the other crowd
has mostly been guessed at. but it will be
counted right enough when it comes to col-
lect its allowance. The money 'is to be
supplied by an annual levy on employers of
so much per employee. The first levy will
be £2 for each person employed during 191!),
but afterwards it may be any sum the
Minister and his council require. The coun-
cil will consist of the Minister, the Director
of Labor (appointed by him), a Judge of
the Arbitration Court (appointed by the
Government), a representative of the unions
and a representative of the employers. As
all the mass of little people who run shops
and farms and workshops and small jobs
of their own —those who are at once em-
oloyer and employee—will be exempt, the
amount collected may not be so large as it
looks; but it should be a matter of big
iinance sill the same. The average propor-
tion of unionists reported as unemployed all
over Australia was 12 per cent, during the
first quarter of 1915. Since then, though it
lias gone to 11 per cent, in Queensland, it
has averaged a shade over 7 per cent. On a
7 per cent, basis, and assuming that the
average unemployed pay is 255. per week, it
will take a subscription of £4 11s. per em-
ployee to keep the fund solvent, and the pro-
posed £2 subscription will go bankrupt before
it is well started. It may require more than
£4 11s., for these calculations generally go
wrong, and go wrong the wrong way. For
one thing, unemployment is likely to in-
crease. Any man of resource can be unem-
ployed without striking, and without too
obviously avoiding work, and any restful
married man with 355. a week to supple-
ment his savings or his credit can remain
unemployed a good while in a pleasant nor-
thern climate. The new idea will thus make
production dearer in the North, rendering
it more difficult to keen ahead of southern
competition, and it will make employers
economise in the number of “hands”—two
more matters which are likely to add to
the unemployed and further assist to make
hay of Ryan’s calculations. But the pro-
posal goes far beyond the mere collection and
disbursement of money. The Governor-in-
Council (Council being Ryan) “may order
and direct that employers shall do such
things and take such measures as in bis
opinion shall be effective for temporarily or
permanently reducing or eliminating unem-
ployment within the State or any part of it.”
“Such things” reads like a blank cheqpe to
be filled in at Ryan’s discretion. The em-
ployer may possibly be ordered to take on
twice as many men as he has work for, and
pay them full wages, and furnish the un-
employment levy for each of them ; and the
unemployment levy, after the first year, may
apparently be anything. As no employer
will know his liabilities in a land where
“such things” as he never heard of before
may come upon him at any moment, it looks
as if the Bill would make a finish of the job
of being an employer up North. Still, 'no
one can say that Ryan isn’t keeping ahead
of the game. All other Labor Premiers have
been shot out or elbowed out for lukewarm-
ness. When thev were put in the place
where they had to find the money for the
programme instead of merely talking about
it, the sight of the spectre of insolvency made
them weaken. They slowed down, and the
ruck of the party overtook them and trod
them underfoot. Spectres don’t worry Ryan,
and he keeps running. John Storey, bid-
ding for the N. S. Wales Premiership, out-
does Ryan by word of mouth ; but he is a
clumsy practitioner compared with the deft
barrister-pedagogue in Brisbane.
-♦—-7 —' —-
The Opposition to a Tariff.
II hen the Tariff question comes up for con-
sideration Australia should remember that
there is always a suspicion against the man
who supports the Freetrade or Low Tariff
ticket of being the hireling of some foreign
interest. The suspicion isn’t good enough
to convict him on, but it is one on which he
should be sent for trial before the Court of
public oninion. The man who demands a
tariff that will tend to establish some new
Australian industry can rarely be paid, for
the non-existent industry can’t pay. No-
body can pay before he is born. On the
other hand, the man who opposes a new Aus-
tralian industry has for his possible pay-
masters the foreign exporters who are already
born and very much grown up, and who are
not at all concerned about preserving the
morals of this country. If the attempt to
promote a new factory is based on sordid
motives, the promoter has to take his reward
in the p..n. of the hypothetical owner of the
concern—a person who may not eventuate,
after all. But the man who opposes it on
behalf of an established importing connec-
tion has an existing person or combine to
work for, and one whose cheque is prompt
—assuming there is any cheque. Where a
proposed duty threatens to interfere with
a branch of the importing business worth
£1,000,000 a year gross, and, on a 10 per
cent, profit basis, £lOO,OOO a year net, it is
•bvious that the buying of 20 agents at £5OO
mwh to prevent that interference would cost
ittle more than a month's earnings. The
tariff comes up so seldom that the bribe
wouldn’t be frequent. When imports run to,
say, £80,000,000 a year, there are plenty of
interests that can afford to buy votes. They
may do it directly by subsidising members
or indirectly by subsidising Freetrade propa-
ganda, or they may do it both ways, or they
may not do it at all; but the fact remains
that the means to do it and the reason for
doing it are both existent. If the position
was reversed, and the rich and protected
manufacturer was fighting against a re-
duction of the tariff, he might be the giver
of bribes, but his non-existence is a good
alibi. Protection in Australia is the revolt
of the poor and the unborn against the rich
who are already in possession, and are as bla-
tant and arrogant about their right to be in
possession as the dukes of England are about
their land titles and their coal royalties.
The same theory applies of course to fiscal
sinkers, who are willing to leave things as
they are on the ground that the tariff doesn’t
matter and who profess to be neither one
thing nor another. There is always half a
'chance that the rich men in possession have
paid for their indifference. At any rate,
nothing could suit the rich men in possession
better than to be left alone.
♦
The Control of the Purse.
It is declared with truth that Australian
Governments have ceased to care 2d. for
Parliament’s alleged control of the finances.
They spend as they please and ask for Par-
liamentary authority after the money is
spent—perhaps two years after. For a while
the war was the excuse. Things had to be
done in a hurry and Parliament was too
slow to run a race with a statue. Now the
peace is apparently an excuse. Ten million
pounds' worth of ships were joyfully bought
or ordered abroad —old ships, slow ships,
wooden ships that arrived too late and
proved *to be born dead, wooden ships that
haven’t arrived and never will, arks, hulks
and some good craft ordered in an off-hand
way since the close of hostilities. There
was some pretence of urgent necessity about
some of the ships. But for such things as
the new Bureau of Science and Industry
there was not even a pretence of urgent
necessity. And matters are likely to be-
come worse instead of better, for Parlia-
ment has become so slow that if things
were not done without it very little would
In' done. When the session starts there is
first the debate, or untidy recrimination, or
throwing of the dead cat to and fro over the
fence on the Address-in-Reply. If there
must be such a thing it should come at the
end of the session, when members are too
tired to be fit for anything else —not at the
beginning, when they are supposed to be
coining to their work refreshed. There is
“grievance day,” which should be attended
to by a standing committee. There are
questions without notice, which should be
cut out entirely. And there is the motion
of censure', which is supposed to hang up
all Government affairs while it is pending,
and which, as if; is practised, is mostly the
indefinite throwing of the dead cat back and
forward a second time. As for “moving
the adjournment of the House” to call atten-
tion to something of no importance, it should
be abolished. When the House has finished its
day’s work and is going to adjourn in any
case it should be competent for the member
with something of no importance hidden
about him to bring forward his complaint
as a reason why the institution should sit a
little loneer. It probably wouldn’t, but the
press gallery would have to, and the matter
would be printed. With these arrangements,
and a time limit for speeches, and the
“guillotine,'” and the closure, and tlm “gar.”
and a more sudden way of suspending dis-
orderly members, and fewer members, and
no latitude -at all except on the financial de-
bate, it might be possible to fird out where
the public money is going and recover the
alleged control of the purse. While things
go on as at present Parliament is futile—
bogged in its red-tape and multitudinous
forms and habits, and its untidiness of mind
and its looseness of jaw.
♦
The Farmer Pays for Freetrade.
Thus the Argus, smugly pleading with the
Federal Government not to interfere any
more with the price of rabbitskins:—-
Now that the war is over it must not be for-
gotten that rabbits are the greatest menace to
which stock-raisers are exposed.
Apart from the Rodiek sys’em, which has
not yet been put to an adeouate test, the
two provenly-effective means of rabbit-
destruction are poisoning and wire-fencing.
The latter only does its work properly in
closer-settlement country, which can stand
an extra capital expenditure for netting;
and in that case the plan provides a sub-
stantial guarantee if carefully done. It is,
however, only the best country which can
carry this super-expenditure, and it is such
districts, as in the tragic case of fertile
Gippsland, which suffer most through the
impossibility of getting supplies of low-
priced netting. At present it takes more
than the cash value of most Victorian land
to rabbit-fence it, so that holdings which
should be now worth big money are unsale-
able at less than was paid for them a decade
ago. The Argus’s importing policy greatly
helped to bring about this deplorable state
of affairs. Australia, without the com-
petition of cheap-labor countries, could in
pre-war times have firmly established an
industry impossible of damage by war con-
ditions; but the Freetrader, grieving bitterly
over the farmer’s need for cheap netting, got
what the fool-agriculturist demanded —a
large supply at fairly low rates, subject to
immediate cessation at the will of the over-
seas maker. Stocks on hand went up to sky-
high prices almost as soon as the war started,
and presently the farmer had to do without
altogether, which meant that in Gippsland
bunny soon took charge of the visible supply
of fodder. To-day the shire of Tanjil, which
is the most potentially-productive part of
the State, contains less population than it
did 10 years ago, with broken farmers curs--
ing their way out of Gippsland by the dozen
every week. The Argus, wailing about the
rabbit menace amid this wreckage of human
lives, cuts a miserable figure.
What the Digger Learned About
Liquor.
The conclusions of an ex-A.I.F. colonel
When the M.L. soldiers’ vote dashed the hopes
of the Prohibitionists to the earth, there were dis-
gusted wowsers who sneered, and put the thing
down to the “brutalising influences of army life.”
Speaking as one who commanded A.I.F. units in
Egypt, Gallipoli and Flanders, I am pretty sure
that much the same thing will happen whenever a
liquor vote is taken in Australia. Not, however,
because the bulk of the A.I.F. men are any more
brutalised than their good comrades the “Enzeds,”
but because they have had their minds broadened
by travel, and in the process have leaned a great
deal about the drink question which they never knew
before.
The Digger is mostly a plain Australian with no
previous military or “militaristic” ideas, and with
no prejudices on the drink issue. He is neither a
wowser nor a libertine. He is one who will put
up with restraint where it is reasonable and neces-
sary, but who absolutely will not stand restraint
for restraint's sake. He underwent a certain
amount of training in Australia in a camp where
Prohibition reigned supreme—as far as the camp
boundary. He embarked, and again he was con-
demned to total abstinence. Every troopship was
“dry.” At intermediate ports he landed only to
find that the news of his arrival had preceded him
and that temporary Prohibition had been pro-
claimed for the duration of his ship’s stay. Arrived
in Egypt or England the Prohibition regime was
at an end. The authorities no longer said to him,
in effect: “You are a mere soldier and therefore
not entitled to freedom. It is not for you to
exercise the rights of a free cold-footed eligible.”
He found himself treated as a responsible being
once more. He was enabled to observe the British
Government’s ideas of regulating the liquor traffic
for civilians and service men under real war con-
ditions. To his astonishment and relief he was
not forbidden alcohol in camps and barracks, but
was actually encouraged to consume any reasonable
quantity of wine and beer he might fancy in his
own lines. He discovered also that great pains
were taken to make canteens and garrison insti-
tutes so attractive to him that he was little
tempted to desert them for the dubious delights of
the outside pot-house. The canteens were under
close supervision and were well-conducted and attrac-
tive places of genuine recreation, where he could
obtain refreshment both liquid and solid of good
quality and at a cheap rate, to the accompaniment
of musical and other attractions. He found that
when on leave he had to conform to the rules for the
civil population—that he could get no alcohol be-
fore noon (and surely few decent healthy people
want to start drinking earlier in the day), but
that it was available from that hour until 2.30 p.m.,
when the bars again closed until 0 p.m.
and then opened again until 9 p.m. During
these two periods—of 2J hours and 3 hours respect-
ively—ho found that ample opportunity was given
for the vast majority of people to consume all the
alcohol a normal man requires.
On being drafted to the Front the Australian
found in France restrictions differing from those
in England only in points of detail. Here also
spirits were tabooed, but the soldier drank and
appreciated the pin ordinaire and the even weaker
French beer. He also had the opportunity to
observe the delightful and rational French cafe
system, so different from and so superior to the Aus-
tralian “perpendicular” method of imbibing. fie
learned to appreciate the fact that good fellowship
and reasonable enjoyment of alcohol in moderation
did not necessitate gulping down long drinks at a
bar under uncomfortable conditions and strolling off
immediately to find another bar of the same un-
homely type. He learned that one or more pleasant
hours could be spent smoking and yarning and
singing or listening to music without feeling any
particular desire to consume more than the two or
three drinks which satisfied him and left him a
better man without detracting in the least from
his enjoyment. He found the French to be inveter-
ate wine-drinkers, but nevertheless the most sober
and thrifty people imaginable. He found that
Jacques Bonhomme was a magnificent fighter and
pal, and that he did it all on a regular wine ration
with an occasional issue of cognac on special occa-
sions. He found his own rum ration in the trenches
a comfort and godsend. In many cases he had to
thank it for his life, particularly under such con-
ditions as were endured during the winter
of 1916-17 in the water-logged trenches on
the Somme. He usually found that his bat-
talion medical-officer was a firm believer in the
rum ration, and that the authorities in hospitals and
convalescent homes advocated the moderate use of
alcohol as an aid to well-being under most cir-
cumstances.
It was only when he again came under the
sway of the Australian Defence Department on the
returning transport that he was once more treated
as a being too irresponsible or too vicious to be
safely trusted with strong drink. And it rankled
far more than it had rankled, years before, when
he first encountered the system as a recruit. It is
to this deprivation and to the various petty measures
which had to be taken to enforce the idiotic regu-
lation that I ascribe many of the breaches of dis-
cipline which occurred on ships such as the Sar-
dinia. Any civilian with enough imagination to put
himself in the position of these returning men will
understand.
The average Australian soldier, or ex-soldier,
while being far from a saint, is no besotted roysterer.
His experience has given him a chance to judge
as between Prohibition and the other thing con-
ducted on decent lines. He has no time for the
irritating, not to say insulting, disabilities that the
wowsers seek to saddle him with. To that extent
he is strongly anti-Prohib. On the other hand, he
finds the boozing-dens of his native land much
more unpleasant than they seemed in the old days.
He has been given a standard of comparison. If
the “Trade” is w-ise it will take note of the fact.
»
The Dirty Girl and the Muddled Law.
Barton, Isaacs and Rich, Justices of the
High Court, by a judgment delivered in
Sydney, have clarified a part of the Criminal
law of Australia that had always been mud-
dled. The judgment makes it now possible
to say that the law regarding corroboration
in certain cases has been brought into con-
formity with the ideas of modern jurists
James Hargan, of Narrabri (N.S.W.), was
in February last convicted on a charge of
carnally knowing. The girl was under 16.
At the trial the evidence of- a medical man
that the prosecutrix had been accustomed
-to being known was not challenged. It
was not alleged that the accused had been
the girl’s frequent companion. There was
(1) no corroboration of her story concern-
ing Hargan’s conduct on a certain occasion •
nor (2) any denial that her mother had
"told her what to say in the witness-box.”
As Hargan denied the truth of the girl’s
story, the problem boiled down to this: Did
the jury believe her or him? There was
oath against oath—on one side the story of
a very sophisticated girl, who at no time
had made complaint against the accused or
anyone else, and who gave her evidence with
hesitation ; on the other the man’s repudia-
tion. Now, in such a case there is no statu-
tory requirement of corroboration. This
Cohen, whose first criminal case it hap-
pened to be, told the jury. But he did not
tell them that in such a case it was neces-
sary for them to weigh with great caution
the oath of the girl against the oath of the
man. Hargan being found guilty, Cohen
sentenced him to two years. Ilis appeal
reached the Full Court after six months.
The Full Court threw it out, holding that
Cohen’s direction was correct —that no fault
could be found with him for not saying
something which neither laVv nor judicial
practice required him to say. Mack K.C.,
went at once to the High Court. The prob-
lem it had to deal with was whether the
presentation of the case to the jury without
a warning of the need for caution was suf-
ficient to establish a miscarriage of justice.
The Supreme Court had held that such warn-
ing was not necessary. Barton, Isaacs and
Rich ruled that it emphatically was neces-
sary—that to say to a jury “Here is oath
against oath, believe which you choose,” was
wholly unsatisfactory. A long array of
English rulings was produced to show that
such cases as the one from Narrabri called
for far different treatment from the ordinary
case. Their effect was that, because of the
peculiar character of those cases, even where
statutory corroboration was not called for,
Judges must be careful to indicate to juries
that conviction without caution was danger-
ous. Wherefore the High Court capsized
the State Full Court and Cohen, and, hold-
ing that non-direction was as bad as wrong-
ful direction, quashed the jury’s verdict and
ordered that a verdict of acquittal be re-
corded against Hargan. This decision
rounds off the law regarding corroboration
in sexual cases. Five years ago the High
Court (Isaacs alone dissenting) gave a
judgment which, in view of later English
decisions, had to be reviewed in a hostile
spirit. The law now stands this way. Where
corroboration is necessary, it must be cor-
roboration which connects an accused person
with the offence he stands charged with;
and where it is not necessary in law the
Judge at the trial must warn the jury not
to accept uncorroborated evidence without
caution, in the same way as he warns
them about the existence of reasonable doubt
and so on. These developments are not go-
ing to make any man less safe. Charges of
criminal attentiveness may be easily brought
by girls or manufactured for them by other
people. And with the law and practice as
it stood until lately, such charges were in
some circumstances exceedingly hard to meet.
■ ♦
The Commonwealth’s Telegraphs,'
“Expert Too” : I once had charge of posfi
office X, having direct communication with
Melbourne, but indirect with Sydney. A
telegram was lodged in Melbourne for an
addressee at a smaller office for which I
repeated, acquainting him with the dying
condition of one of his family. The telegram
did. not reach him until next midday through
being sent via Sydney. I, being very young,
sent the manager in Melbourne an official
message acquainting him with the fact that
time had been lost by sending the telegram
via Svdney, and that the public suffered
thereby. After the lapse of some weeks I
received a communication from my own
State manager asking why I had acted so
improperly as to address a communication
to another State without first submitting it
through the proper channel; and those
telegrams still go via Sydney and this inci-
dent occurred years ago! Hence you see
Authority (and consequent responsibility)
sits in the shadow of Official Dignity be-
decked with red tape. It’s no good swear-
ing at Webster. Even if he could become
acquainted with all these anomalies it
would not matter. He is almost as much in
the toils of the system as the public is. The
present method of working telegraphic busi-
ness was introduced in 1904 and is, briefly,
the collection and distribution of telegrams
through repeating centres. These centres
were established at offices which had the
best facilities for accommodating the neces-
sary staff and which were located at the
centre or apex of a group of lines. As with
almost every new system, the Departmental
heads altered it to suit their own conveni-
ence, and while allotting to the centres work
previously handled in the Capitals retained
all the authority and control. In this man-
ner the centres have not had a fair chance of
developing along the best lines, because no
authority has been vested in the officers in
charge of them to effect alterations and re-
groupings which the experience they gain
would suggest as desirable in the public
interest. In practice the centre officers
have direct control over the traffic of ICO
or more offices, yet they have no authority
to place their telegraphists to the best advan-
tage. increase or decrease staffs, divert
traffic to gain expedition, or do any of the
thousands of things which they must be the
best qualified to manage. If they can find
time, after dealing with all the petty clerical
i j i’ outme duties with which they are
loaded, they are expected to convey any
ideas for improvement to head office, where
a rubber-stamp “Thank you for your inter-
est is coldly impressed on their memoran-
dums. In another 10 or 20 years it may be
seen that work and authority must both be
decentralised. Then the public may be able
tO , "nd someone outside of a capital city
vho will be able to tell it something more
i Z om eom PlHint will be transmitted to
bead office, whence inquiry will be instituted.”
_—
Will the Airman Abolish War?
“Aerocus” : “.Take B\s” theory (B. 2S/8/T9)
that man's latest invention is going to make
war terrible for the old war-makers, is very
ancient and very dangerous. Since Moses
held his hands'aloft to inspire the Israelites


T h s Farmers’ & Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of A
ustralia
Limited
EACH YEAR A RECORD !
The following figures indicate the progress of the Company —
PREMIUMS
Year.
1916
1917
1918
£8,849
£20,336
£42,807
Each year the
Income has been
more than doubled.
The figures for 1919 will also be a record.
Insurances
transacted
FIRE (Homesteads, Woolsheds, Crops 8 Stacks),
HAILSTONE.
WORKMEN’S COMPENSATION.
PERSONAL ACCIDENT.
'MOTOR CAR.
The Company has already over 5000 Shareholders.
EVERY Farmer and Grazier should Join this Progressive Company.
Full Particulars on application to HEAD OFFICE ; 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. W. R. DIMOND, Managing Director.
there has always been some invention which
was to make war impossible. Aircraft won’t
scare the old men off wars any more than
the other things have done. When quot-
ing figures to show the few casualties suf-
fered by Hun air-raiders, “Jake B.” forgot
to add that pretty nearly all of them occur-
red towards the end. With night-flying
scouts, improved searchlights, tracer shells,
balloon nets, etc., tombing became less of a
sinecure once the cavalry officers at the
War Office realised that they faced a pro-
blem not answered in the text-books, and
allowed Pomeroy’s “New Zealand” bullet
and a few other mere civilian ideas to be
forced upon them. Defensive tactics were
gradually catching up the bombers. During
last August it w T as almost a nightly occur-
rence for two or three Hun raiders to be
brought down in flames over Peronne.
“Jake B.” should know that the London
defences became so effective that German
G. were constantly issuing warnings-
that reports of- “damage to shipping,” etc.,
bv airmen who had shirked the job they
were sent to do would not be tolerated. And
of those who reached London less than a
quarter ventured through the barrage that
protected London proper. The Woolwich
Arsenal was a big target and a rich prize,
but they could never get it. It’s hard to
find, let alone bomb, a well-camouflaged
H. well behind the lines. Before bombing
the lock gates at Zeebrugge, Major
Batchelor (killed in England recently with
four or five others in a big night-flying
crash) had a full-scale plan of his objective
marked out for him on an aerodrome, and
practised dropping bombs day and night in
all weathers till lie felt sure of getting his
target. Then when the raid came off lie
had to descend so low that he and all his
crew were wounded. In France day-bombers
who penetrated to any depth into enemy
territory were forced to work at 15,000 to
10,000 feet, and even then had to guess
when to release their bombs, because the
best sights available were too imperfect to be
of use except under ideal conditions that
never could exist in face of an effective
enemy. Under those circumstances I imagine
the old war-managers always felt prettv
safe in their deep dugouts. For “the old
men who make war” the aeroplane has
merely added another fascinating possibility
to the game.
A
Fools and Their Folly.
“Bill o’ Costs” smacks his dry lips:—
My mouth lias been fairly watering lately. In
a recent cable message I read bow the affairs of one
Lord Miciielham have been sorted out. providing the
profession with the honest penny to turn. II is
property amounted to some millions, and the law
costs were £70,000. Coming home again, I
see that the Minister concerned has informed
the S. Aus. Assembly that the lawsuit locally
known as “the Dam Case” (being a claim
against the Government for £6OO or there-
abouts, damages caused by a leaky railway dam at
Manoora), dragged through one year four months
and 13 days from the “initiation of the proceedings
to judgment,” and the Court was 45 days sitting on
it. The Minister dodged the awkward subject of
costs by saying that they were not yet taxed. As
“the Crown” lost and has to pay them —“the
Crown” being you and I—he probably hopes that
the inquisitive member will have forgotten about
it by the time the Master p>uts his O.K. to the
bill. Blit £70,000! —and 45 days’ litigation with
leading K.C.’s on both sides! Possibly in the Eng-
lish case the £70,000 won’t be missed from the
heap, but the £6OO claim against the S. Aus. Gov-
ernment will carry a heavy infant with it to the
taxpayer's doorstep.
Strange are the ways of Governments with com-
pensation claims of all sorts! If a prudent, common
person contemplated such an undertaking, for in-
stance, as the construction of big waterworks, he
would make it his first business to find out what
land he wanted, as well as every likely claim for
real or fanciful injury that could be anticipated,
and buy off these liabilities in advance. But Gov-
ernments don’t act that way. A sort of “do the
thing properly” tradition goes hand-in-hand with
the postponement paralysis. Surveyors and engineers,
with contractors in their wake, get busy pegging
out, pulling down, blasting and excavating with an
easy indifference to results, and claimants are told
that their bills will be settled later on. As a big
State work nowadays takes a few years to complete,
the claims don’t diminish by being chewed over all
that time. Probably in the end they are charged
up with the added costs as “permanent and repro-
ductive,” and the kid will see the account later.
Strange, too, are the ways of Courts which adjudi-
cate on such claims! Manoora, now famous for its
dam, is full of J’s.P. and other inexpensive people
who know whether a dam holds or leaks, and whether
the- man who built it could or should have made it
watertight. A rude, unthinking layman might have
supposed, as the simplest settlement, a reference to
two of these local Solomons, who might have spent
an afternoon walking into and around the dam,
examining it in all its bearings and leakings, if any,
and settling the question over a drink in the pub
parlor on their way home. The process adopted,
though far less likely to give the right answer,
was much more impressive. For some time after
the “initiation of the proceedings” two K.C.’s were
learnedly debating such recondite questions as “What
is clay?” with frequent interruption and contradic-
tion of one another. Then followed strings of
witnesses to say “Yea” for the claimant and “Nay”
for the other fellow, and be examined and cross-
examined to the uttermost limits of repetition and
boredom. In the middle of this forensic orgie
some anonymous person enlivened the dullness by
writing to Justice Gordon suggesting that he should
get a move on. His Honor was tremendously
annoyed, and explained to an audience consisting of
the aforesaid K.C.’s and their juniors, how unreason-
able such people were and that the law must take
its course. The learned brethren arose as one shark
to express their sympathy and agreement with his
Honor, so there was no doubt left about the matter.
Yet another modern instance crowds its way in.
Justice Powers, of the High Court, is now engaged
in an arbitration upon a staggering claim of
£102,000 against the Federal Government —compen-
sation for a well (or it may be more than one well)
“acquired” by the Government on the East-West
railway; said well (or wells) being on Kingoonya
run, hundreds of miles from anywhere but the iron
track, and taken or made by Government, as usual,
without any agreement about the price. Present
stage of the business is that arbitrator, claimants,
K.C.’s and the whole entourage have returned
from a trip of about a week, solemnly “viewing”
this desert well (or wells) ! Justice Powers has
possibly looked down a well at some time or other,
but I doubt if either of the K.C.’s had ever previously
got any nearer it than a lift-well. Still, knowledge
has to be gained somehow, and the Taxing Master
is there to see that no one is overcharged in the
matter of costs. So, peace ye cynics! Better a
barrister peering down a hole on the Nullarbor Plain
than an idle Court of Law in the city and two
practical Saltbush Bills arbitrating in the Wilder-
ness.
♦
“M.F.”: With some of the £200,000 left by
late squatter McCatjgiiey to the Queensland
University, there is talk of establishing a
medical school. The sclieine sounds impres-
THE UNDESIRABLE ALLIES.
RETURNED SOLDIER: “You bet we’ve got our grievances, Digger! But ice don't want
this crowd to help us right them, do ice?”
sive, but it will be poor use of the money.
We are very well served in this matter by
southern universities. What we do need,
and need very badly, is an institute for re-
search work in tropical diseases. This the
southern medical schools cannot be expected
to supply. Malaria and other maladies
arising out of tropical and sub-tropical con-
ditions are becoming a grave menace to
public health in Queensland, and are a
hindrance to settlement in North Australia.
It would be to the incalculable advantage
not only of Queensland, but of Australia, if
work in this direction was carried on.
If, as reported, the Farmers’ Union, re-
presentatives of the Federation of Labor,
and the Labor party in Maoriland have had
a talk and decided to distribute leaflets
showing “the conditions of trade as evi-
denced by the cost of production, the prices
received by the producers, the cost of dis-
tribution and the prices charged to the con-
sumers in order to end the present mis-
understanding of the position, especially by
the working classes,” it is a very promising
ray of light. Vested interests in all coun-
tries have most successfully kept the con-
sumer and producer apart and fattened upon
both with great success. The farmer has
been diligently taught to regard the Labor
party as a wolf that would destroy him
body and soul, and Labor has been urged
to regard the farmer as a bloated exploiter
thriving at “the worker’s” expense. As
long as the parasites managed to maintain
this feeling and keep these two classes of
workers at each other’s throats politically,
they were on an exceptionally good wicket.
The Maoriland conference and the determina-
tion of Australian cockies to run their own
Parliamentary candidates may be a sign
that the old game is about played out. A
proper understanding and co-operation be-
tween Labor purged of fanatics and farmers
cleansed of the mostly-city factions that have
manipulated them fo» generations, would
produce about as genuine a workers’ party
as we can ever hope to see. But it is almost
too much to hope that the Holmans of poli-
tics will not for a while longer manage to
stir up the ’possum in the cockies and
sool them on to “the workers” in defence
of the marriage-tie, or in pursuit of some
other old red herring; while the Labor-
crowd has still to prove that it is ready
to recognise that the cocky is just as real
a working man as any unionist, and much
worse paid than most. Meantime, however,
any such movement as that in M.L. to
clarify the position deserves a welcome.
Australia is being raided by foreign buyers
of raw products, and, since prices don’t mat-,
ter in some places during the present out-
break of insanity, the little Australian manu-
facturer is faced with a new kind of com-
petition. Yesterday Americans and Japs (it
is mostly an American or a Jap) were skying
hides; to-day it is rabbit-skins. The hat
manufacturer protests that he will have to
presently double his prices if the foreigner
is allowed into the local fur market without
restraint. The rabbiter, who has been pro-
fiteering as hard as anybody, yells that inter-
ference would be a gross injustice—why
shouldn’t he get what somebody is prepared
to pay him in the open market? Well, two
or three years ago if he had been a copper-
miner Germany would have been prepared
to pay him probably £2OO a ton for copper;
yet the public interest demanded that he
shouldn’t be allowed to sell his copper to
Germany at any price. Germany was at
war with us then ; and the sooner we realise
that other countries are at war with us all
the time the sooner we shall protect our own
manufactures.
The Massey and Ward parties have held
together during the greater part of the war;
but they now retire to their corners and
prepare for the next round. It will he open
lighting for the future, and there are thou-
sands in the oscillating islands who prefer it
that way. The number of parties preparing
for the elections this year is astonishing,
and all except Labor are talking of what
they will do. Labor is lying low because
it is in deadly fear of a split between the
direct-actioners and the moderates. If
Ward and Massey had kept together they
would have gone back again. But the
water objects to the oil being on top and
getting all the applause. Ward has played
the game for nearly five years, and has
never once complained. And it must have
been bard on this last trip when he had
no official standing and Massey was having
the time of his life. A sigh of relief goes
up throughout Maoriland at the news of the
parting, for, as was inevitable when no con-
tentious subject could be dealt with, affairs
have been drifting steadily towards stag-
nation.
If the Holman Government had done all
that Beeby and Storey say or hint in con-
nection with wheat deals it would be
knavery, but it wouldn’t be a drop in the
bucket compared with the foolery of the
loan that has just b*een renewed. That
lOU was floated in the years when Holman
and Beeby were just beginning their career
as Jugginses, and the period was so short
that the loan has already had to be renewed
on terms which add about £140,000 a year
to the State’s taxation. There are a whole
series of similar transactions by the same
people to be fixed up in the next few years,
for the Holman-Beeby-McGowen crowd was
essentially a hand-to-mouth Ministry. It
found the State well loaded with debts that
fell due about 1924 and on to 1950; so
it floated short-dated loans to come before the
old liabilities and constitute a first mort-
gage. It was rough on the old lenders, but
it gave the wild-cat combine the use of much
cheap money for a day or two. Now the
short, cheap loans are of necessity being
renewed as short, very-dear loans, and the
loss of £140,000 a year on a single transac-
tion is only the first instalment of disaster
If there were only a brilliant financial knave
to be bought somewhere!
It is not certain that the bill making in-
sanity for five years a ground for divorce
and judicial separation will be pushed
through by. the Lawson Scotchbyterian
Ministry this session. The measure has
been read a first time and circulated, but
health, housing and building regulation is
to take precedence when the Assembly gets
tired of motions for adjournment and of flail-
lng the air over grievances and inconsequen-
tial matters.
A.I. : A\ hen Fihelly, as Minister for
Justice, practically abolished capital pun-
ishment in Bananaland four years ago, a
squeal was heard that Cain would now’be
abroad at all seasons. But since the sacking
of the public hangman no murders have been
registered in the S:ite. There probably would
be murders even if we punished murderers
with slow boiling in oil; but the Queensland
experience at least suggests that we needn’t
tear that the abolition of the gallows will be
at once followed by wholesale homicide.
Dr. N. M. O’Donnell, for many years
leader of the constitutional Irish Ilome-
rulers in Vic., has retired from his medical
practice at North Melbourne, and has had
gifts bestowed upon him by local com-
patriots and co-religionists. He was usually
the Melbourne chairman when delegates
rom the Irish party came to Australia, and
ms sincerity and unselfishness were acknow-
edged by the most caustic of his critics. Of
late years he has not had robust health.
llis daughter (Sheila) is the wife of lawyer
I rank Brennan, M.H.R.
Iluxham gave a hint to the Queensland
Local Authorities’ Conference, held recently
m Brisbane, that that might be the last
occasion on which lie would be with them
aw Home Sec. The trials of four years of
omce have weighed heavily on him, he added.
It. is quite true. . No Minister has been
more harassed by his own crowd. Dinployees
in every public institution under his con-
trol have clamored or intrigued for wage-
tncreases, and in addition he has had to
carry the blame for not introducing liquor
reform, when in reality Cabinet inactivity
has been the cause. A Ministerial chair
with less worry or a seat on the Land
Court bench will probably be his solace.
‘U. Reeka”: Unionism’s new inhumanity
to man was displayed recently in Brisbane
when the seamen of the Remora walked off
that vessel in response to the orders of the
unf CI T> IVe local branch of the union.
1 he Remora is a big dredge and was packed
with foodstuffs for the hungry North. She
was about to proceed on her relief mission
when the crew gave notice and left the ves-
sel moored in the Brisbane River. Apart
from the disregard for the hardships which
the Northerners were suffering the action of
the seamen was stupid. The Government
was trying to make the people more or less
independent of the shipping cos., and thus
he!p to heat them. But “No,” said these
men in effect —“we’re out to make the people
suffer so much that they will force the
h ederal Government to take action.” A
more callous strike policy was never pursued
m Australia.
Peace is raging. Holland holds an in-
fimtesmal scrap of territory on the Belgian
side of the Scheldt, which looks like the
natural boundary— not enough territory to
e v ~uv a, ”, but enou S h to give command
ot both banks at the river mouth, so that
it can obstruct the trade of Antwerp. The
commerce of Belgium’s big port—the third
i vvor f° r tonnage, London being
sixth has to go through a corner of Dutch
territory, to the great joy of Mynheer Van
-Dunk. Holland says there will be war if
ma< f e to alter the boundary,
and fish and schnapps will be thrown at the
enemy. The,. Allies are half-threatening to
tall on their own Roumanian ally if he
doesn’t leave off banging the Magyar. The
Hun has been doing things in Upper Silesia
which recall the worst days of Belgium. The
Allies, principally the philanthropic Wilson,
decided that the . people of this Debatable
Lana should decide by vote whether they
would be Hunnish or Polish, and the Huns,
by way of “repressing disorder,” have been
thinning out the Polish vote. United States
troops have entered Mexico. Apart from
Russia and Ireland the rest of the world is
fairly quiet, although most of it is calling
tenders for an umbrella.


CROSS, FEVERISH, BILIOUS CHILDREN
NEED CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
Look, Mother! See if the tongue is
coated; this denotes sluggish
liver and bowels.
Mother! You’re child isn’t naturally cross
and peevish. See if the tongue is coated ;
this is a sure sign that its little stomach,
liver and bowels need attention at once.
When listless, pale, feverish, “stuffy” with
cold, throat sore; when the child has tainted
breath and doesn’t eat, sleep or act naturally
or has stomach-ache or diarrhoea, remember,
a gentle liver and bowel cleansing should
always be the first treatment given.
Nothing equals California Syrup of Figs
—“Califig”—for children’s ills; give a tea-
spoonful, and in a few hours all the waste
matter, sour bile and fermenting food clogged
in the bowels pass out of the system, and
you have a healthy and playful child again.
All children love this harmless, delicious
fruit laxative, and it never fails to effect a
good “inside cleansing.” Directions for
babies, children of all ages and grown-ups
are plainly on the bottle.
Keep it handy in your home. A little
given to-day saves a sick child to-morrow,
but get the genuine. Ask your chemist for
a bottle of “Califig”—California Syrup of
Figs—then look and see that it is made by
the California Fig Syrup Company. Refuse
substitutes. All chemists sell “Califig”—
California Syrup of Figs—in two sizes, 1/6
and 2/4. [4
m
Throat
s
■
■
FREE
TRIAL
BOTTLE
If You Are
Run Down.
Builds up Health and Strength.
If you are run down from overwork, anxiety, illness, or
if your appetite and digestion are impaired and your
nervous system in need of a tonic, no treatment will give
such all-round good results as a course of Angier’s
Emulsion. It promotes appetite, soothes and strengthens
the organs of digestion, overcomes nervous depression
and builds up health and strength. Angier’s Emulsion
has been prescribed by the medical profession for twenty-
five years ; it is a standard remedy of proved value.
Send name and address, 4d. postage, ana mention this paper,
ANGIER CHEMICAL CO., LTD., 233 Clarence St., Svdney, N.S.W.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Three questions to be put to every can-
didate at future elections :
Will you vote to abolish the debate on the Address-
in-Reply? . , , . „
Will you vote to abolish questions without notice (
Will you vote to abolish motions for the adjourn-
ment of the House except when the House really
means to adjourn because it is time to go home to
bed?
Half the time of Parliament is wasted on
these talky futilities.
By way of eating the bear before the
animal is even in sight, it is already proposed
that Australia’s share of the Hun indemnity
should be applied not in reduction of our
war debt or peace debt, but to relieve the
revenue of the cost of war pensions. Yes, and
if there is anything over, why not use it;
to eke out the Baby Bonus?
Holman’s position as leader of the “Na-
tionalists” in N. S. Wales never looked so
shaky as it does at this moment. That there
was a strong feeling inside the Parliamen-
tary party against his leadership Ley and
others have indicated; but this wasn’t so
serious a matter to the party as the bitter
quarrel with E. P. Simpson, who represents
a lot of the money that the Nationalists
hoped to win the general election with.
Cable news is that Japan’s newest naval
ship-building programme includes two battle-
cruisers, three light cruisers, 10 de-
stroyers and many submarines. Bv
1923 Nippon’s fleet will include eight
modern Dreadnoughts and six battle-
cruisers, each of 40,000 tons, presumably all
designed to help Woodrow Wilson’s new
navy to keep the peace in the Pacific. Aus-
tralia, by the way, is somewhere in the
Pacific.
Holman snoke in N.S.W. Assembly the
other day like a man who has listened to
blasphemy against the Holy Sepulchre: —
What would Mr. Carmichael do if he did not build
out of borrowed money ? Has he going to build the
railways by taxationt
Well. Holman gets the money from our own
people as often as he can to build our own
railways, and gives them a piece of paper
by which they promise to pay themselves
per cent. Does Holman never buy him-
self sixpenn’orth of boots —railways are
national boots —without raising a loan from
himself and giving himself his own embossed
p.n. at interest?
It was over the Immigration Bill that
Considine, M.H.R., earned a month’s sus-
pension for using bad grammar. The Bill
is practically a copy of the legislation of
Britain, the United States and Canada, and-
is milder than the law of France and some
other Allies. It proposed to shut out people
whom these countries, with their larger ex-
perience, regard as scum. If Australia
remained open it would naturally get not
only its share of scum but these other places’
shares as well. Considine viewed this as
desirable, possibly regarding himself as the
sort of person that this scum (so defined
by British and U.S. law) would vote for
and raise to power. Other Laborites agreed
with Considine, but Considine agreed with
himself so much more violently than the
rest that he went out.
THE BOASTER.
“The only limit to our public works policy will be the supply of labor.”
N.S.W. Labor-leader John Storey.
“Mr. Holman said that the Government would push on more vigorously with loan works.”
News item.
JOHN STORY: “Drunk! He’s not drunk. If I had his opportunities he’d look like a
prohibition meeting by comparison with me!”
The S. M. Herald referred sceptically
(29/S/’l9) to a statement that “the Federal
Government cannot attack profiteering un-
less there is an amendment of the Constitu-
tion.” Yet the allegation is correct in the
sense it was made. Government by Mel-
bourne ukase and rescript is dead. That
being so, any profiteer who is careful to over-
charge within the confines of one State only
is safe, under the Constitution as it stands
at present, from any such national legisla-
tion as the Lloyd-George Government has
just put through in Britain. The Australian
Government is in the position of a house-
holder who, with a snake in his bedroom, is
precluded, under the rules, from touching
the reptile, having only power to attack it
if it moves into another room. Such is the
operation of the Trade and Commerce clause
under peace conditions, according to the
interpretation put on it by repeated High
Court judgments.
The Farmers’ Federal Organisation met
in Melbourne the other day and adopted an
all-States platform. The following item was
included: —
Cheapening and extending production by admitting
into the Commonwealth, free of duty, the tools of
trade for primary production coming from within
the British Empire.
This country builds large quantities of
Cocky’s implements, thereby giving thousands
of citizens the wages with which to pay the
farmer for his produce. Yet for the temporary
gain of a doubtful tuppence Cocky prefers to
send his orders and his purchase-money' over-
seas, thereby helping to pull down local in-
dustries and cramp his own local markets.
The more cash he sends away the harder he
will have to grub on his farm to meet the
nation’s running expenses and the bigger will
be the legacy of toil, debt and hard times he
must leave to younv Bill, and the fewer jobs
there will be for the family when the farm
gets overcrowded.
At a recent N.S.W. “Bush Week” picnic
President Alec Hay dilated upon his impres-
sions, gained from a recent visit, of the
marvellous progress in the primary industries
of America, and urged us to go and do
likewise. It is good advice; hut Hay ap-
parently omitted any reference to the fact
that the direct cause of the increase in pri-
mary production in the States was the culti-
vation of “secondary” industries to provide
a handy and profitable market for the pri-
mary products. Seeing how successful this
policy was in that country, one would think
that the obvious thing was to follow suit
here. But one looks, in vain for any sug-
gestion to that effect from the “Bush Week”
enthusiasts. On the contrary, a glance at
the crowd which has much to do with this
show gives rise to a suspicion that the ideal
is to send endless shiploads of Australian-
produced raw material to feed American fac-
tories and provide work for American arti-
sans. In the circumstances “Bush” week
seems a good name for the movement.
For disobeying the order of the Speaker
to withdraw un-Parliamentary remarks’ four
members —Solly, Bailey. Clough and Hannah
—have been suspended since the Vic.' As-
sembly opened on July 9. For the previous
25 years there were only two suspensions
and one expulsion. According to old Par-
liamentary hands, Lawson holds the record
among Vic. Premiers for moving suspensions
in the Assembly. Hitherto the request of
the leader of the House to do “the right
thing” has seldom failed; but Lawson,
partly through an excess of amiability, is
not master of the House.
Things looked uncomfortable for Lawson
last week when the Ministerial caucus aq\l
the Assembly were discussing the Railway
Wages Board Bill. The Country Party,
which consists of Ministerialists, contended
that the measure proposed to set aside Re-
sponsible Government by handing over the
fixing of wages of public servants to a Judge
and four railway employees. Lawson, who
hinted at a cabal to depose the Government,
indicated his willingness to add provisions
making the Ministry of the day responsible
for the board appointments and for the '
adoption of its recommendations; and for
the moment trouble was averted.
Joseph Ward has taken himself out of
the Maoriland War Coalition Cabinet on
the ground that its work is finished. He
sets up for himself with a programme which
includes the expenditure of £3,000,000 on
school buildings, £1,000,000 annually for
civilian land-settlement, provision of all the
money that may be needed for soldier settle-
ment. £4,000,000 immediately for railways,
£4.000,000 almost instantly for roads and
bridges. £0,000,000 for hydro-electric works,
£4,000,000 quite suddenly for workers’ homes,
“generous provision” for soldiers and their
dependants, reduced taxation and reduction
of the public debt. There are also 100 other
things, many of them expensive. It is the
same old louseph, just as sanguine as in
the days when the Colonial Bank of Maori-
land was alive.
“Henry II.” : Taken by and large, I sup-
pose there is in recent history no worse
case of swelled head than is visible in the
proposed law in Queensland whereby “the
Governor-in-Council” (otherwise the Ryan
Ministry) is to be authorised
to order and direct that employers shall do such
things and take such measures as, in his opinion,
will be effective for temporarily or permanently
reducing or eliminating unemployment.
There will always be unemployment, for
whenever news spreads that there is a good
country where the article doesn’t exist people
will flock to it. Also, there are always a
few professional unemployed. What is pro-
posed is that, to support these, at all times
every employer shaTl have to do anything,
however expensive and mad, that the Gov-
ernment —not the whole Parliament but the
Ministry—tells him to. And when an election
is looming it may tell him to do almost every-
thing.
From the Federal Gallery:—
The discussion on a Bill to exclude the emissaries
of disorder was a vaudeville entertainment. Feeling
at times rose above winter level, even the usually
amiable Jowett revealing a fury that demanded
satisfaction outside. Considine, publicity officer for
the Russian Bolsheviks, made an irreverent refer-
ence to the rival Koltchak organisation was
promptly ejected. Feeling the necessity - for some
comic relief, Brennan started citing the mental
capacity of the Bolshevik Cabinet, whereat Webster,
Poynton and’ Boyd folded themselves up in delirious
laughter. Anstey also had his joyful hour. In irony
he moved to include profiteers within the scope of
the measure, and was almost overwhelmed when
the humorless Government allowed the amehdment
to be debated and go to a division. Maloney threw'
a brick of Herbert Spencer into the discussion, and
Laird Smith, refusing to be outdone in erudition,
brought in Brunton Stephens to define an anarchist.
Laird Smith, whose tongue is more the weapon of
his temper than of his intellect, charged Laborites
with favoring the free entry of dealers in prostitu-
tion and of other reprehensibles, and naturally nearly
started a free fight. Smith and his side were tre-
mendously concerned about keeping undesirable
persons out of the country, but so far they haven’t
expressed any fervent ambition to banish undesirable
goods. Their silence on the matter is golden—for
somebody who isn’t us.
Sydney D.T., picturing N. S. Wales Labor-
leader Storey after delivering his policy
speech, made him say:—
I wonder if I’ve forgotten to promise anybody
something.
Certainly lie did. He forgot to promise a
job to the newspaper that was unconscious
when Holman was unloading very similar
promises.
Minister Glynn, replying to a deputation
which asked for the Initiative and Referen-
dum, said the United States experience was
nothing to go by. Such things were required
there, because people doubted the honesty
of Parliaments. Nothing of the kind hap-
pens here, of course, even though people
may grumble when Ministers’ wives charge
their motor-cars to the public.
PAX MUNDI.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In castle-keep my Lady dwells;
Yea, haply from her window high
She leans and listens to the bells
Soft pealing out across the ski-.
She listens to the city bells.
So must she hear them till she die?
In castle-keep so long she lies
A weary world may well forget
The truth that beaconed from her eyes,
The wisdom on her forehead set;
I wonder if each day that dies
Leaves her more lonely, living yet?
It is so long since she has trod
Sweet Earth to make her sweeter still,
Or heard the happy winds of God
Wind golden horns from Heaven’s hill;
The haggard years go sorrow-shod
For one that worked not any ill.
Oh, I have kept the vigil pale
By blessed tapers burning low,
Where lies upon the altar rail
Her wimple and her veil of snow ;
Vet must she hear from hill and vale
The heavy bells, the bells of woe.
And I have borne the pilgrim’s staff,
Sufficed me with the pilgrim’s dole.
The meagre cup the beggars quaff.
The measured meal within the bowl;
Yet still I hear the devils laugh
That hold in fee my Lady’s soul.
The clashing bells of victory
Make hollow music on the air,
In chancel low they bend the knee
With fitful meed of muttered prayer;
Yet runs through their brave liturgy
The muffled minor of despair.
And there is feasting in the land,
The wine cup is a leaping flame
Held high in many a lifted hand,
To Victory, Triumph, Honor, Fame ;
Hers is a shadow writ on sand —
Hers is the echo of a name!
And they who spake her name of old
Come with proud pomp of heraldry,
The standard of the Cloth of Gold,
The Lion and the Fleur de Lis
And, wrapt in his one garment’s fold,
Poor Christ, who died upon a tree.
Yea, through the throng, like shadows fleet,
I see them pass with burning eyes ;
The jesters jostle in the street.
Wax fools in their own folly wise?
With her, green Earth were good and sweet.
In bondage still my Lady lies.
VICTORIA.
MARIE E. J. PITT.


BLUEGUM HAS AN ELECTION.
The pAtR-y Co^nit- £C
*'-.E.E T S
to BLUE.GUTA BOLSHCVIK.S
Oeh»T u E.AAELH/ , YOU KNOW AS WELL AS T
DO TMA-r THERE at?£. no Bolshevik. Bear i in -this
, oursT ßy "Thus TALK Otr PuttinL down wh/xt
W FK.iT is unfair TO YOU CENTLEMEN WHUOE
r, £ ;u'“ that v„ u o.«umt th,mh.,mc.
For. yo ursE L-V E.S •
the: I — EACUC OF LOYAL bLueCiy/v,
LADIES
DEAR LADIES , YOUR Holies Yoor. L,<V£<J,
THI(SC,S MORE PRECIOUS THAN
N" life ARE ONiAFE VVHILE &OCSH£V<ijv,
► Stalks land ••
Tne SCLEO’-eo ONE
COES FOPTH. X
To TH£ BLuEQum PtR:pFYTCe?S
Gentlemen . where would the.
COOHTR.Y 3E without me (INTELLIGENCE
WHICH HAS EMABUED YOU To PROSPER,"
' » Horvie ar-j o r-r'S g,(,v£ CJu/v> ,
’ < HEAveN THATi Qvf'li they’ve
CtECtEP hoe anb T'vE. Cit>T rnß.ee />/«w
Tt» DK IvixittF li-n *


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
Registered
E3HAS
Brand.
Producers of Lead in the following forms —
Refined Lead, Corroding Lead, Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated),
Super-refined Lead, Chemical Lead.
Also of—
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated), Spelter,
and the following Alloys and Metallic Products —
Antimonial Lead, Linotype Metal, Litharge (Industrial and Assay),
Bearing Metals, Leaded Zinc Pigments, Blue Powder.
Purchasers on a Specially Favorable Tariff of Silicious Silver-Lead Ores, Slags, etc.,
containing Silver and Lead. Lead Drosses. Zinc Drosses.
HEAD OFFICE: COEEINS STREET, MELBOURNE—
H. F. SHACKELL, Secretary.
LONDON OFFICE: PINNERS HAFF, AUSTIN FRIARS, E.C. 2
A. .T. SMTTH. London Secretary.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 25 O’CONNEFF STREET, SYDNEY—
R. N. KIRK (Agent).
ADELAIDE OFFICE: 62 BROOKMAN’S BUILDING, ADELAIDE—
A. W. LEWIS (Agent).
SMELTING WORKS. PORT PIRIE, S.A.
COKE WORKS, BEFFAMBI. N.S.W.
PIONEER Leather Belting
The most efficient and economical power transmitter.
SOLE .
MAKERS
J. C. LUDOWICI <a SON LTD.,
PIONEER WORKS, 117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
ELECTRIC STEEL
“ THE STEEL OF THE FUTURE.”
\Ve make a Feature of Specially Heat-treated Steel Castings for Ore
Crusjier and Rock Breaker Parts. Battery and Mill Liners. Stamper
Shoes and Dies. Cams, Heads, Tappets, Ring Dies. Tramway Tyres.
hnpfited? IS> We Can SU ™ ly ail > duality hitherto
ALT. STAGES OF MANUFACTURE UNDER MODERN SCIENTIFIC CONTROL,
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.,
Telegraphic Address: “Electric Steel.” ALEXANDRIA. SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
On the perplexing question of capitalising
reserves: —
The capitalisation of reserves is still under discus-
sion, and the debaters get at cross-purposes fre-
quently because they are talking about entirely
different things. Of faith, hope and charity the
last was said to be greatest; and charity covereth a
multitude of sins. The same is true of reserves. It
is because they are such good things that companies
and firms do such wrong things under cover of them.
When a eo., instead of spending every penny it
has, puts by some of its ascertained profit in order
to extend the business and perhaps better protect its
creditors, it is fully entitled to presently capitalise
some of those undivided earnings. The assets are
there to represent the capital. The assets are the
capital; and there is nothing immoral about mak-
ing the capital expressed in £ s. d. something like
equal to the real capital, which consists of plant,
stock, etc., after allowing liberally for depreciation
and contingencies. But sometimes there are re-
serves which are created by revaluing and writing up
assets. Such reserves deserve the cold eye of sus-
picion. And when such reserves are capitalised, the
transaction deserves a still colder eye. In most cases,
of course, it doesn’t matter much to the public. It
does mutter, however, where the co. concerned is
entrusted with a public utility. What has to be
asked before forming an opinion as to the pro-
priety or otherwise of a capitalisation by such a co.
is “What was the nature of the reserves that were
capitalised?” In many cases, when the asset is
written up, it will be found that it was previously
written down too much. That is to say, too much
profit was charged every year against depreciation.
Which further means that the true profit during that
period was greater than the co. disclosed. If it had
disclosed the full profit it might have paid bigger
dividends. Not having paid as big dividends as it
might—that is to say, having retained some of its
profits—the question arises whether it is not subse-
quently entitled to capitalise the profits it made and
did not disclose.
But we are not entitled to confidently assume
10 or 20 years afterwards that the co. would have
been in a position to declare greater dividends had
the larger profits been disclosed. Other things might
have happened«• Competition, for instance, might
have been attracted. Or Parliament might have
intervened. Or its customers might have under-
taken a boycott, or something of the sort.
In the public interest it is very undesirable that
a co. (certainly a co. having control of a public
utility) should be permitted to make profits which
it does not disclose. But it is extraordinarily diffi-
cult to prevent it. A co.’s profits are not something
that you can measure in a pint-pot and say they are
so-and-so, neither more nor less. A trading concern's
profits arc a matter merely of estimation. Six months
or so before some Melbourne banks went broke in
the ’nineties, and when they were hopelessly doomed,
they thought they were doing so well that they paid
10 or 12 p.c. diva. A shipping co., thinking it
should put by 4 p.c. of the cost of a ship to, replace
it, may presently find that, with half of the; cost of
the ship in hand towards buying a new one to replace
the old one, the old one is worth as much almost
as when it was launched. Yet it would have been
grossly wrong if that co. laid not established a
depreciation or replacement fund and paid liberally
into it out of revenue; for in a general way more
frauds can be worked l y inflating profits than by
representing them as being less than thej r really
are. All that can be said definitely is this: A
public-utility co. should be required to say what it
puts aside for depreciation.
But then, having discovered that it has put aside
too much and that its assets are worth more than
they show in the books, what can the directors
fairly do with tlie “hidden reserve” —that is, the
true value of the. assets in excess of the book-value?
This seems to depend on the nature of the co. The
Bank of Australasia has written its premises down
to a nominal sum —a mere few pounds. They are
worth perhaps three-quarters of a million or more.
Would the Bank of Australasia be justified in now
writing up its premises by three-quarters of a mil-
lion and adding that aniount to its capital? If it
did, somebody would certainly ask what was wrong.
Yet nothing would be wrong, necessarily. The
O.S.R. has done it, and the C.S.R. thinks it is just
as respectable as the ’Asia. What a co. of one sort
may do would, then, sec-m to be quite unthinkable
in a co, of another sort.
And suppose a bank had written off a fair amount
for depreciation of properties, and then, in the midst
of a building boom, when prices were very high, had
its properties revalued on the boom basis? The
value might show an appreciation of £lOO,OOO. It
vo.ild be more unthinkable than ever that a bhnk
hould add that froth to its capital. So the cir-
.umstances under which the revaluation is made
must also be considered before we can say whether
too much profit has been written off in the past,
and whether a capitalisation of any surplus value
shown is justified. And that consideration is specially
important if the co. is in control of a public utility ,
for the permanent capitalisation of an excess value
that may after all be only froth may have serious
consequences. It might be another way of selling
the froth to the public for hard cash.
So the conclusion of the whole matter is that the
propriety or otherwise of capitalising reserves de-
pends upon a multitude of circumstances and con-
ditions, and that each case must be considered on
its merits, if it has any. And in general it can-
not be safely assumed that a public utility eo. would
have been permitted to make bigger profits than
it actually disclosed in times past; so that the co.
ought not to be permitted to deal with any pre-
viously-undisclosed profits to the public disadvantage.
» * * *
The Queensland Woollen Manufac-
turing Co. (Ipswich, Queensland) from the
time one-half of the capital was written
oil: —
Dividends and Written To Re- Re-
June, Loss. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
1007.. £4ll Nil - x-A.-VXi
1908.. 514 Nil 2,782
Profit.
1909.. 1,657 Nil £5OO £1157 3,939
1910.. 2,990 Nil 2000 990 4,929
T 911.. 3,563 Nil 2000 1563 6,492
1912.. 4,867 24 p.c. = £613 2000 2254 8,746
1913.. 2,485 2| ~ „ 613 1500 372 9.118
Dividends forfeited :. 204 9,322
1914.. 4,042 5 p.c. = 1225 2000 817 10,139
1915.. 8,838 10 „ „ 2450 4000 2388 12.527
1916.. 10,484 20 „ „ 6410 2000 2074 14.601
1917.. 3,610 74 „ „ 2883 1595 13,733
1918.. 6,506 74 „ ~2953 1271 ) ~,
1910 war-time profits tax £3535 )
1919.. 16,289 15 p.c. = 59Q0 4533 5850 18,330
A glance down the profits column indicates
the lift which the war gave this co. When
the Defence Department became a cus-
tomer the concern had been struggling 40
years and had made practically no headway.
Just prior to the beginning of the table
there were branches in Brisbane, Toowoom-
ba and Maryborough; but under pressure
of the bank these were closed down. The
directors also overhauled the assets, with
the result that they decided that altogether
nearly £29,000 had been lost. Half of the
paid capital and a few thousands of reserves
were then written off. But the change of
fortune has not been entirely due to war
contracts; for besides tbe additional work
got in that way. Wilhelm’s tinfish gave the
Australian woollens industry the Protec-
tion which the politicians had so long denied
it. So when the mills have not been turning
out khaki, they have been busy producing for
local requirements. As a result of the
greater output and higher prices this co.’s
sales have moved ahead in this way
1909 .. £26,402 I 1916 .. £68,134
1913 .. 30,678 i 1917 .. 51,426
1914 .. 33,364 | 1918 .. 50,145
1915 .. 40,110 ] 1919 .. 75,177
The oast year has been easily a record one
for the co., for after writing off a substan-
tial amount for depreciation, etc., profits
were equal to over 31 p.c. of the paid capital.
Naturally the turn of the tide has effected
a big change in the co.’s balance-sheet posi-
tion :
1909. 1914. 1918. 1919.
Capital .. .. £23,339 £23,339 £37,500 £37,500
Liabilities . . 22,077 15,929 11,044 3,470
Buildings, etc, .. 10,760 9,836 15,079 14,150
Plant, etc. . . 23,534 21,548 24,578 25,000
Stock .. .. 12,671 12,868 11,103 13,153
Book debts .. 4,375 8,212 12,068 10,935
Between 1909-14 only 10 p.c. altogether was
oaid in divs., and meantime the balance-sheet
figures had shown an improvement of £7699.
Since then dividends totalling 60 p.c. of
paid canital have been distributed, and mean-
time net assets have expanded by £18,384.
But what of the future? Are we to cold-
shoulder the good local article again, giving
preference to the imported, and allow the in-
dustry to languish? ; If the Commonwealth
is going to make ah honest attempt to lift
the crushing war debt it has acquired we
simply cannot afford to send our work and
wages to factories any more.
Whether the new conditions and higher
costs in the older countries will give local
industry a chance to compete with imports
is very doubtful; if,not, the tariff will have
to be adjusted to giye the necessary protec-
tion. But manufacturers will also have to
do their bit and be less greedy than some
of them were during the war years if they
are to hold on to the market they have
acquired. Whether some of the conclusions
which the Interstate Commission arrived
at after its inquiry into the clothing trade
last year are justified may be questionable;
but some of the evidence provides damaging
evidence for the Freetraders to gloat over.
Digging into the accounts of the 25 woollen
mills operating in the Commonwealth, the
Commission found that the total net profits
for the three years 1915-17 exceeded the
aggregate paid capital of the concerns—-in
other words, the industry throughout Aus-
tralia was averaging over 33 p.c. net profit
per annum. The seven concerns in Queens-
land, S. Australia and the Speck made only
“fairly moderate” profits, but the 10 Vic.
cos. in 1916 averaged a net return on capita!
of over 49 p.c. An analysis of the industry
gives this illuminating comparison:—
Blankets & Flannels. Serges & Tweeds.
Met Profit. Net Profit.
r~ ( - A
On On On On
Capital. Turnover. Capital. Turnover.
1914 .. 9.6 p.c. 9.3 p.c. 16.7 p.c. 16.1 p.c.
1915 .. 23.5 ~ 14.4 ~ 35.5 „ 19 2
1916 .. 41.8 „ 16.8 „ 37.8 „ 18.9 „
1917 .. 25.4 „ 15.2 ~ 26.4 „ 20.7 „
Various excuses have been put forward, the
most important of which is that by judicious
purchases of wool the cos. made a big rise
from the appreciation of stocks. Seeing that
the unbusiness-like Defence Department was
an easy prey for all profiteers, there may have
been some excuse for the woollen manufac-
turers also going after their bite. Perhaps
it is unfair to judge the industry on its
war contract profits; but there should cer-
tainly be no necessity for the “control” such
as has been suggested by the Interstate
Commission —it proposes that for tweeds
and serges a maximum 30 p.c. should be
added to prime cost, and 25 p.c. for blan-
kets and flannels. If manufacturers are to
hold the ground they have won they will
have to learn that the strengthening of local
industry is not intended for their sole benefit,
but for the community generally. After all,
the manufacturer is merely a means to an
end—an intermediary with whose assist-
ance the affairs of the Commonwealth can
be got on to a sounder footing.
* * * *
Mkggitt, Ltd. (Sydney), manufacturers
of linseed oil: —
/ —Dividends.— .
Pref.
_ . Loss. 10 p.c. Ordinaries. Deficit.
Dec., ’12.. £5,163 Nil Nil £7,745
Dec., ’13.. 3,194 Nil Nil 10,939
£14,93S Capital written off and
assets written down .. .. 3 54s
, Profit.
N0v.,’14.. 2;328 Nil Nil 1,220
.. Beserves.
Nov., ’lo.. 12,730 £1333 30 p.c. = £4479 ■ 5(698
...... _ Deficit,
Written off capital (£ 14,938) restored
and bonus shares issued (£14,938).. 17,313
12 months to
May, ’17.. 22,412 3326 10 p.c. = 4481 2,708
~ _ Reserves.
May, IS., 6/, 627 3994 20 p.c. = 8963 51,962
Transferred to capital, £29.876 .. 22 086
May,’l9.. 21,236 4000 20 p.c. = 14,938 24,384
Since Australia does not grow linseed this
co. is dependent upon other countries for
its raw material. And as supplies were
unobtainable during part of last year, Meg-
gitf’s mill was closed down for about four
months. But even then the co. made more than
sufficient to pay 30 p.c. to the prefs. and
P-c. on the increased ordinary capital,
though all the couple of thousand leftover may
lie eaten by the tax collector. There is at
present £9710 lying to the credit of taxation
reserve; but the directors are not at all
certain what the Treasury may call for,
and in the published accounts include war-
time profits tax as a contingency liability
of unknown size. They have, however,
apparently made no special provision to
meet any demands. So the £24,384 of accumu-
lated profit shown in the table may not be
all true reserves, or if the Federal Treasury
decided to open its mouth wide, there might
even be no reserves at all.
The co. has had an extraordinary career
for a young concern. Formed only eight
years ago to take over an old pro-
prietary business . (for which £2OOO good-
will was paid), it struck a heap of
trouble at the beginning, and the direc-
tors five years ago decided to write off
hall the capital as lost. But though share-
holders then imagined that they had suffered
a severe jolt, the management had justified
itself in one respect: with the efficient plant
it had installed excellent quality oil was
being produced. Then when shipping diffi-
culties became acute and imported oil could
not reach the local market, the co. got its
opportunity and made the most of it. The
Treasury gaie permission for further capita]
to be raised, and the co. decided to extend
its works to supply the whole Australian
requirements if necessary. And while the
directors were re-arranging the co. they
decided that, after all, perhaps, the capital
they had already swept away may not have
been lost, any more than the capital often
represented in insurance cos. bv “organisa-
tion and extension of business” accounts.
Anyhow, they decided to restore it. Since
then Meggitt’s has had a wonderful run,
and the past four years have quite made up
for all previo is troubles. Since May. 1916,
on a paid capita] of under £85.00(1 it has
made a gross trading profit of £247,631,
and a net profit of £111,275. A Freetradc
paper some time ago quoted Meggitt figures
in an attempt to prove that Protection was
all wrong, seeing that a co. like this, tem-
porarily helped by shipping difficulties, could
make such profits. Wherefore, it argued,
we should go on depending on overseas fac-
tories. But having once established a local
industry, prices can be controlled if its
proprietors become too rapacious—a thing
that never can be done when the profiteering
manufacturer is in a foreign country.
Whether Meggitt profits have been oven
the odds The Bulletin cannot say; at any
rate the co. has been selling its product at
under the proclaimed price.
Meggitt’s present position is just about
what it should have been if the con-
cern had had a fair run from the beginning.
After all, in the 7} years since the present
co. took over, the original shareholders have
had an average of only about 10} p.c. p.a.
on their capital. Further, the co. is at
present carrying heavy liabilities, which
mean risks. At May 31 it owed no less
than £181,202 on ‘‘drafts drawn under
Eastern credit,” besides £10,600 due Jo
sundry creditors. In stocks alone £182,653
was tied up, compared with £60,764 a year
previously. Including stocks there were
liquid assets of £05,766 over and above
liabilities; but, as previously mentioned,
something—and possibly a very substantial
something—may have to come out of this
liquid surplus if the war-time profits tax
contingent liability blossoms into a reality.
The Australian Drug Co. (Sydney) :
June. Profits. Dividends. To Reserve's. Reserves.
1911.. £4,706 5 p.C. = £3760 £lOl6 £10,252
1912.. 3,419 5 ~ „ 3750 9,92 L
1913.. 8,572 10 „ ~ 7500 1072 10,993
1914.. 8,575 10 „ „ 7500 1375 12,368
1915.. 8,921 10 „ „ 7500 1421 13,789
1910.. 9,885 10 „ „ 7500 2385 16,174
1917.. 9,985 10 „ „ 7500 24.85 18,659
Premiums on new shares. . 170 18,82!)
1918.. 17,081 10 p.c. = 8750 8334 27.163
1919.. 12,010 10 „ ~10,000 2010 29,173
The chairman said that the record profits
announced a year ago were due to the very
rapid growth of the business. But no
excuse is given for the slump of .over £5OOO
in the latest figures. Yet the rush for drugs
and clinical thermometers and preventatives
against ’Hu during the past term might rea-
sonably have been expected to give equally
handsome results. Certainly there was a
collapse in prices following upon the Armis-
tice, hut the directors say that it. “was pro-
vided for.” However, stocks have been pil-
ing up—the book value at June 30 last was
almost 50 p.c. greater than it was a year
previously—and it is not unlikely that cur-
rent profits have been called upon to protect
the present large accumulations against pos-
sible depreciation in value. Costs may have
further increased during the year; but on
such matters the accounts are silent. The
Profit and Loss statement is compressed into
one tablet: “Net profits after providing for
all trading exes., bad and doubtful debts,
depreciation of plant and fixtures, and tax-
ation, etc., £12,010.” The directors’ report
is also silent as to the expense and compen-
sation (if any) the co. had to meet as a
result of its barium sulphate troubles. How-
ever, shareholders have nothing to complain
about in the smaller profit, for there is still
a comfortable margin over their 10 p.c. div.;
though on the funds employed in the business
the disclosed profits were equal to only 9.3
p.c.
The co.’s interests have expanded rapidly
during recent years, manufacture having
been speeded up and less dependence placed
on imports. Here is a comparison of the
balance-sheet figures over eight years
1911. 1918. 1919.
Capital .. .. £75,000 £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Liabilities . . . . 44,591 38,719 65,646
Freeholds and plant B,BOS 17,882 17,627
Stock .. 84,971 123.229
Book debts .. ( 116,741 j 57,526 58,658
Cash, investments, etc. 8,034 10,502 5,304
To finance present heavy stocks the co. has
had to lean on others. Until a couple of
years ago the management was working on
£25.000 of debentures, but these were un-
loaded by getting in a similar amount of share
capital. Over the eight years the increase
in capital and liabilities has amounted to
£46,055. Meantime, £8759 has been added to
the book value of premises and plant, and
£62.416 to more or less liquid assets. That
shows an improvement of £25,120 in the
eight years before paying the year’s dividend,
which is £6250 larger than it w r as in 1911.
Though the Dominion is largely interested
in the B.N.Z. —the Government holds all the
pref. capital—a whole-hog State bank is
one of the show items which Joseph Ward
has put in his shop-window now that he
lias dissolved partnership with Massey. The
Commonwealth Bank is to be taken as a
pattern. He may have to hurry, or the
Commonwealth Bank will get there first.
Denison Miller has already had an officer in
Maoriland reporting on the prospects of
branches.
* * * #
The Commonwealth Oil Corporation
tragedy goes into another act. Share- and
debenture-holders met in London the other
day and unanimously agreed to John Fell’s
proposal to manage operations for 10 years
at £4OOO per annum, Fell and the Corp.
equally sharing any profits. Further, iu
consideration for his surrender of option-
purchase rights, the former is handed a
million fully-paid Is. preferred ordinaries.


The British Westinghouse Electric 81 Mfg. Co., Ltd.
Westinghouse
R&teau I'mpulse Type
Steam Turbines
HIGH ECONOMY
d
SIMPLE DESIGN
STURDY CONSTRUCTION
As the largest builders of Steam Turbines in Great Britain,, we
are in the position to give early delivery of Steam Turbines
and Turbo-Sets up to 20,000 Kilowatts.
igtinpliott M
Manchester
Send enquiries to Head Office for Australia:
i Queen land Building, 84, William Street, Melbourne, jj
Fire, Marins,
Accident,
Loss of Profits
Insure in
Ti“ 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital . .£250,000
Subscribed Capital .. 194,235
Paid-up Capital .. 96,497
Income (Cross) 1918 .. 457,852
Established 1910.
AGENTS WANTED,
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting: Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
NOTICE .
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society Ltd.
On and after the Ist September the Business of the above
Society will be conducted at
“DALTON HOUSE,” 115 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
Here is Bendigo Amalgamated’s record
to date;—-
Year ending
t A \
_ July, 1918. July, 1919.
Production .. .. 140,7G9 tons 112,977 tons
Gold won . . .. 34,1870 z. 29,2540 z.
Gold worth .. .. £134,390 £120,947
Tnbutors’ gold .. .. 6,9410 z. 11,7680 z.
Values .. .. .. 225. per ton 28.75. per ton
Costs apart from de-
velopment . . . . 25.025. „ 19.835. „
Development costs. . . 5.075. ~ 10.445. „
Total costs . . .. 30.095. ~ 30.275. „
Year’s loss .. .. £58,841 £7,784
Financial results look better given in half-
yearly instalments:—
Six months to Loss.
Dec., 1917 .. £38,459
June, 1918 .. 20,382
Dec., 1918 . . 10,718
Profit.
June, 1919 .. 2,934
But in noting that steady climb the £5446
which the co. has recently got from the
Gold Producers’ Association as its whack
of the premium on gold exports must not
be overlooked.
Still the record is a good one, considering
how Dyason and Moline have experienced
adverse developments in almost every claim
that should have turned up trumps. The
cheery item in Dyason’s statement accom-
panying the year’s accounts is that “the min-
ing outlook is brighter' than at any time
since the incorporation of the co., conse-
quent on the discovery and continued suc-
cess of the Constellation reef and the pro-
mising developments of the Unity ore bodies.”
Of the £135,501 gold won during the year
Constellation contributed no less than
£32,168, the 9044 tons averaging 675. per
ton. Still, the questions of importance at
present are: how much ore is available to
maintain last year’s grade of 28s. Bd., and
what chance is there of getting costs down?
Moline admits, with every other Bendigo
mining man, that it does not seem “prac-
ticable to prepare estimates of tonnage and
value covering the total resources of the
co., though in individual cases approximate
figures may on occasion be presented.” So
Moline forecasts another 9000 tons in sight
at the Constellation, though the grade may
not be quite so good. The pity is that he
cannot announce three times the tonnage,
but it looks as if a lot of compensation
may come from the extension of the Victory
run of spurs from the Carlisle into the
Unity ground. Considering the pace at
which Dyason and Moline have driven things
along, it is pure bad luck that has kept so
many working faces off good gold. This
means a change in policy, so shaft-sinking
is now the programme. Was not this what
Cundy advised in the long ago?
It took chairman C. H. Kerry almost an
hour to tell Malaya Tin Corporation share-
holders all about their Siberian properties.
The Severnieh is the one in which the Cor-
poration has greatest hope at present, a New
York crowd having become interested in
the show. They are going to have a thor-
ough investigation of the El Dorado before
plunging, and £3OOO has been put up to
send a staff of engineers to run the tape
over the 27 reefs which general-manager
Piper reckons he has unearthed. The Corp.
is paying £lOOO of the expenses, and a
comprehensive agreement has been made be-
tween the parties as to what is to happen
if all pans out well. A co. of £1,000,000
capital is to be registered at a phice to be
mutually agreed on, and the Americans are
to put up cash under a progressive option.
The Malaya Corporation’s share as vendor
is to be £20,000 in cash and a third of
the shares, but with commission clips, etc.,
£20,000 in cash and £200,000 in shares will
come to Sydney, which will not be a bad
deal for a £42,000 Australian co. to pull
off in America on a property that cost only
£5OOO.
Associated is the latest tin-sluicing float,
and starts out with nominal capital of
£12,000—80,000 shares of 3s. each, 50,000
of which have been issued. The co.’s ground
adjoins the Buffalo Syndicate’s holding at
Emmaville (N.S.W.), and extends for about
1\ mile parallel to the Inverell-road. The
ground was bored by J. Wliear Roberts and
W. C. Elevsen (who is the mine manager),
and in 366 bores put down average pros-
pects of 2.831 b. tin oxide are stated to have
been obtained. The co. has purchased a
second-hand 10-in. sluicing plant, and hopes
to get to work with the nozzle in a couple
of months. A total of 500,000 cub. yds. of
material is expected to yield 2Jib. of tin
oxide per yd. About 20 chains of an un-
worked section of the Graveyard Creek is
also held, but is unsampled.
* * * •
When the Cobar mines shut down at the
end of last year tributors in the Cobnr
Gladstone could not find an outlet for their
ore, and so forfeited their tribute. The
show closed down, and water started making.
Though the future for the Australian copper-
producer is still doubtful, the co. has now
decided to start work on its own account, and
pumps have been set going to prevent fur-
ther damage.
At the request of some shareholders for an
independent J. M. Potter was asked
to run his tape over White Crystal
(N.S.W.). Potter, who saw the mine in
June, estimated 4000 tons in sight; but
some good developments have since shown
up at Crosby’s Hill. From the floor of the
open cut the drive has been put in 75ft.,
and from 50ft. in two crosscuts have been
driven, measuring 40ft. from face to face,
while a rise has gone up 70ft. Potter cal-
culates on a body 75ft. long, 40ft. wide and
70ft. high, bilked out on three sides, and
figures out 10,000 tons. Then on the assump-
tion that the ore goes as far below the drive
as it does above, he arrives at a total of
32,000 tons, which, with an average con-
tent of 2 p.c., would give 640 tons oxide.
Present mill recoveries are only 621 p.c.,
but with further dressing plant Potter talks
of an 85 p.c. extraction. With tin at £2
per unit (it is now over 465.) the tonnage
would represent an extractable value of
nearly £71,000. In addition there should
be at least 1000 tons 10 p.c. stuff at the
main shaft, worth about £13,000. So, if
Potter’s assumptions are borne out, the mine
is two years ahead of the mill; but profits
will even then depend on economical ex-
traction and a reduction of the present loss
in tailings. A winze has been started from
the drive in Crosby’s Hill to test the ore
downward. Latest reports state that values
are improving.
* * * *
At last water is flowing into the Mt.
Dudley (N.S.W.J dam; so manager Martin
will now be able to set his stamps at work.
And since his latest_yeports have talked of
stone “showing gold,” the next crushing
should be better than the sdwt. return in
April. Calling power, after payment of the
present call, will be limited to 2d. on the
120,000 shares. So far, apparently no one
except those right inside know with any
certainty what are the average values, but
with the series of crushings ahead (that is,
if water holds out) the mine will have the
opportunity to prove itself.
* * # *
Star Gully, Tingha (N.S.W.), is a tin-
sluicing concern which has hitherto had
very moderate luck. The directors have
now taken up the Brickwood leases, a
nearby property over which they have held
an option for some time. Thirty-three bores
are stated to have proved an average depth
of 21ft., with an estimated 300,000 cub. yds.
of 31b. ground. There are 20,000 £1 shares
in Star Gully, 4000 of which are paid up,
and 12,000 contribs. paid to 95., but there
are further calls ahead to remove plant
and finance operations on the new property.
Official figures show that 50,862 acres
were held under mining leases in Westralia
last year. The gold areas were 2641 acres
less than at the end of 1917, but for other
minerals greater by 313 acres. The number
of men employed in mining was 9265, the
average raised per man 223 tons, and the
average value of gold produced per man
£471. Kalgoorlie gave employment to 44
p.c. of the gold-miners. There were 26 fatal
accidents, or five more than in the previous
year. Every goldfield except North Cool-
gardie showed decreased yields.
* * * *
Speaking (it was shortly after his 80th
birthday) at the Gt. Boulder meeting in
London, Chairman G. P. Doolette remarked
that, like himself, the old mine had still
many years ahead of it. Gold valued at
over 114 millions had been produced during
the past 25 years, and shareholders had re-
ceived over 54 millions. Doolette said that
a sharp lookout was being kept for a new
mine as an auxiliary, but that, although
several had been examined in various parts
of the world during the past year, nothing
worth having had yet been found. Ore
reserves showed a contraction of 41,792 tons
and 29,2420 z. compared with the figures
given 12 months previously, and the shrink;
age would have been much greater but for
additional ore of extra-good value showing
up in the 2350 ft. and 2200 ft. slopes. Com-
pared with 1917 the gross revenue showed
a decrease of £49,876, but owing to the
smaller tonnage treated expenditure was less
by £16,000, and this, together with London
and Adelaide economies and smaller taxes,
brought the net decrease down to £28,496.
The rise of 3s. 4d. per ton in costs was
due to lesser tonnage and higher prices for
labor and materials. The balance-sheet
showed surplus floating assets of £87,000,
but it was all in stores and shares in other
cos.
« # * *
Boulder No. 1 (W.A.) lingers on. Last
year’s accounts showed a loss of £617 and a
reduction in the cash in hand to £5643.
Nothing of value has been unearthed on the
co.’s property for a long time, and all efforts
to find a new payable mine have failed. It
seems to be a case for prompt liquidation.
* * * *
Fraser’s old group of abandoned mines at
Southern Cross (W.A.) has been pegged on
behalf of a Melbourne crowd, and an effort
will probably be made shortly to get the
public in. The various reefs were once
driven on and stoped for a length of several
thousand feet, and produced nearly a quarter
of a million pounds’ worth of bullion; but
the workings have been waterlogged for
years. As on all other Yilgarn shows, values
became poor at a few hundred feet down;
and, as results obtained from bore-hole pros-
pecting in deeper ground were not promis-
ing, operations ceased, and the show has
been a half-drowned derelict ever since.
* * * *
Tributors on the Associated Northern and
Boulder Perseverance continue to do well.
Last month those "on the former show
obtained £11,628 and paid £1957 in royalty,
while those working in parts of the_ top
levels of the other derelict crushed £15,000
out of 3UOO tons. Good returns such as
these have been obtained from both mines
for some time past, greatly to the disgust
of local shareholders in the old concerns.
* * * *
Several Westralian cos. in search of new
gold-mines have turned their attention to
Hampton Plains. The Ivanhoe is stated to
have taken an option on one, Associated
Northern is said to have its eye on another,
while Gt. Boulder, Oroya Links and others
are reported to be watching developments
there. The position of the latest find is
about 20 miles south of the Boulder, and
already “experts” are declaring it to be the
continuation of the Golden Mile, and to
having the makings of another Kalgoorlie.
* * * *
When a large tonnage is handled and the
stuff is low-grade a jump of lid. per ton in
costs leads to hard thinking. That is the
case with Mt. Biscliolf, where J. D. Millen
has been battling on against the working
out of the claim after Ferd. Kayser had had
his 30 years’ fling. Even now Millen’s bill
is surprisingly low at 7s. 5.611 d. per ton,
of which 4s. 3jd. goes for mining and Is. 9d.
for milling and concentrating, llis worry is
that, as he gets out of the oxidised zone,
pyrites show up more and more, adding to
the difficulties of concentration. The only
addition to ore reserves of late years has
come through the testing of the northern
slopes and the alluvial flats in the North
Valley. Eeserves and values now run out
thus: —
Tons. Tin.
Lodes and dykes .. .. 24,000 0.60 p.c.
South slopes . . .. .. 37,000 0.31 „
East arftl West slopes .. .. 330,000 0.24 „
North slopes and North Valley.. 676,000 0.29 „
1,066,000 0.28 „
This means that Bischoff must have low
labor charges and a high metal market, or
die fat divs. will dissolve into very lean fare.
The drop from £333 10s. to £234 10s. in the
price of tin cut profits in one half-year from
£21,536 to £5lOB. Millen juggles with about
100,0(K) tons of stuff yearly, so the old mine
looks to have a life of 10 years if reserves
pan out up to estimate, and the price of
metal enables production to continue. No
smelting charges are set out. This is be-
cause the co. does a big customs business.
The Bischoff cash position is always kept
solid, and even now stands at £28,165, or
only £630 less than six months back.
* * * *
Round Hill silver-lead (Tas.) is still
developing well. The lode which was cut
about ten months ago has maintained its
average width of 20ft., and the quality of
the concentrates has not varied much.
Phenomenally rich patches have been taken
out in the course of development, but no
large quantities. Some specimens have
assayed as high as 1800 oz. silver and 2oz.
gold. Since October the lode has been
driven on for 320 ft., and the face is in
good ore. The lode is going into a hill,
and ns the drive progresses there will be
some hundreds of feet of backs. Very little
stoping has been done, but electric light is
now being installed at the concentrating
plant, so that an extra shift can be worked
in the mine, and when shipping facilities
become normal the output will be increased.
* * * *
Gitsham’s lead-sulphate works at Laun-
ceston should be ready for a trial run some
time this month. For a start the concern
hopes to be able to supply the Common-
wealth’s white-lead requirements, but later
on, when it can command a 2000-h.p. supply
of electric juice, it hopes to paint the whole
of the southern half of the world.
* * * *
Strikes and poor ground have been eating
into Lode Hill (N.Q.) resources, and only
about £lOOO is in the cash-box. The Knowl-
ton lease having proved poor stuff, R. Claus-
sen, the new manager, is out after the
greisen in the side of the hill, which is said
to have prospected promisingly. This de-
composed granite material is similar to that
which showed up in Jack Northey’s old faces.
Claussen has brought up bis tail race, sluic-
ing large quantities of old headings on the
way. Lately he has been bearing in towards
solid ground, and the stuff so far handled
has been good. Prospects of |oz. to the dish
have been frequent, and as much as Jib. has
been dished here and there. Large quanti-
ties of big boulders are a bother, but accord-
ing to prospecting done ahead they become
fewer as the greisen country is reached.
Anyhow, recent working has given better re-
sults than for months past. There is likely
to be a market flutter ahead, but Lode Hiil
is still a gamble.
* * * *
The Irvinebank (N.Q.) is apparently tot-
tering to its fall. Its mainstay has been
the Vulcan mine, but for a long time this
has been very poor. The show has done
wonderfully well, the figures being, approxi-
mately, 105,700 tons stone crushed for
12,100 tons tin oxide, worth about £611,000.
The co. has no other mine to take the Vul-
can’s place, so the days of big things have
apparently ended. A few stampers will be
kept going on public stone —it is said that
10 head will be leased for this purpose.
* * * *
Asarn Ivumbang’s dredge is the largest
bucket tin-plant in the world, and probably
the costliest. Chairman W. A. Freeman
said the other day that the cost erected
would be about £SO,OOO, compared with the
£43,000 -which the two Kampong Kamunting
machines called for. War costs, of course;
Kumbang having had to pay Bid. per lb.
for steel plates compared with a penny in
the pre-war days. The plates for the Ulu
Yam pontoon are expected in Melbourne
shortly. Total cost of that dredge will be
something like £40,000.
* * * *
The advantage of having battery charging current
on tap in the home garage is now within the reach
of every motorist. The G.E. Mercury Arc Battery
Charger makes any ordinary lighting circuit a source
of energy for starting, lighting, and ignition bat-
teries. Its cost is a mere trifle compared with the
convenience and economy of home charging. An
overnight boosting charge every few weeks will not
only increase the efficiency of a battery, but will
also lengthen the life of the plates. You should
get due of these outfits. Australian General Electric
Company, Wentworth Avenue, Sydney; and corner of
Queen and Little Collins Streets, Melbourne^ Advt.
Your live stock need pure drinking water just as
much as humans do. See they get it! Fall in
line with the big cattle salesmen —leading water-
supply boards, town councils and stations —use
Aluminoferric for purifying the water in your wells,
dams and tanks. Aluminoferric quickly causes all
impurities to precipitate, leaving the water clear,
fresh and wholesome. Sold by storekeepers the
country over. Full particulars and prices free from
William Adams & Co. Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth. — Advt. [1
* * * *
The latest copper-smelting plant to be erected in
Australia is that of the Mount Cuthbert Company
in North Queensland. It consists of buildings, power-
plant with boilers, generating sets and blowers,
blast furnace, copper converters and converter re-
fining plant, blister gathering and cleaning shed,
also steel bins for ore and coke. Wherever possible
the plant is electrically driven. The whole of the
plant was supplied by the Austral Otis Engineering
Co. of Melbourne, who have made numerous smelting
plants working in Australia at present.— Advt. [2
* * * *
Pioneer Wood Pipe, the most satisfacto y pipe to
instal. This letter comes from the Anchor Tin
Mine, Ltd., Lottah, dated June 23, 1914 : “Dear
Sirs, —The wood pipes supplied by you in May.
1910, have proved satisfactory in every way. They
were easily handled, took little labor or skill to lay,
developed no leaks, and show no sign of deteriora-
tion. Yours faithfully (Sgd.) Jamks B. Lewis,
General Manager.” Send for illustrated catalogue.
The Australian Wood Pipe Company, Ltd. (H. 0.),
Burns Bay ltoad, Lane Cove, N.S.W, P.O. Add.:
Box 1576 G.P.0., Sydney.— Advt.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting ?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * » *
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink’s Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723. — Advt.
♦ * * «
The manufacture of ‘Skandia” Crude Oil Engines
in Australia, both marine and industrial types, is
receiving the recognition that the enterprise deserves.
The Federal Government has placed an order for a
large marine set, and their example has been followed
by several of the largest trading firms in Australia,
Tasmania, the Pacific Islands and Dutch East Indies.
The workmanship of the Australian “Skandia” com-
pares with any imported engine on the market.
Write Nelson & Robertson, Loftus Street, Sydney.—
Advt.
* #• * *
“Robey” Patent Uniflow Steam-engines, supplied in
powers ranging from 100 to 1000 indicated h.p. The
“Robey” Uniflow Engine represents the latest devel-
opment in the construction of high-class steam-
engines. Highly efficient and economical in steam
consumptions. Suitable for high steam pressures and
all temperatures of superheat. Specially suitable
for small floor space. Catalogues and complete in-
formation from sole representatives, Arthur Leplas-
trier & Co., Head Office, Sydney.—Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * # *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B. Selby k Co.,
Ltd., 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street, Melb. — Advt.
T. H. Palmer, 8.E., Fel. Chem. Soc., etc., consult-
ing engineer, valuing, organising, technical advice,
mining, metallurgy, flotation and selective flotation
processes, Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 Pitt
Street, Sydney. Cables and Telegrams: “Remlap,
Melbourne.”—Advt.
(Continued on page 22.)


AFTER THE WRECK.
( Recalling John Tenniel’s “Dropping the Pilot.”)
GHOST OF BISMARCK: “Ha! YOU were the young war-lord who rather prematurely dropped his pilot some quarter of a century ago, hein?”.


SOLDIERS’ DIARIES.
THE Mitchell Library is desirous of pur-
chasing for the State Archives original
diaries of Australian Soldiers taking part
in the Great War. Good prices will be
paid for good material. Address Mitchell
Library, Macquarie Street, Sydney.
For the Trustees.
W. H. IFOULD,
Principal Librarian and Secretary.
Missing Friends.
Re William Purves, dec’d.
GEORGE PURVES, son of the late William and
Ann Purves. of No. 260 Lennox Street, Rich-
mond, Victoria, last heard of working for Mr.
Synott, Maeedon, Victoria, please communicate with
the undersigned. Or any person knowing his where-
abouts or particulars of his death please communi-
-1 the" equity trustees company limited,
85 Queen Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
6th August, 1919.
TF JAMES CAMPBELL, son of Hugh Campbell, who
1 ca me to Australia with a brother from the neigh-
borhood of Crieff, Scotland, in 1889, will apply to
ATTHOW and McGREGOR, Solicitors, Brisbane, he
will hear of something to his advantage.
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell 8 Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office—
-44 Bridgs Street, Sydney.
ď
Situation Wanted.
EXPERIENCED Australian. Mining
Prospector, Lode and Alluvial Prac-
tice, returning from F.M.S., open engage-
ment October, in charge or Assistant to good
Mining-engineer; age 32 years, single,, in
good health. Reliable, c/o Sydney Rueletin,
Sydney.
Meltcmian
IV \ HIGH"CLASS
jsPBfIALTIES
Creams
Pastes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANC LTD
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne.
E. DROWN <§ SON*S LONDON
AGENCIES • ALL. - OVER • THE • WORLD
d
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel
SYDNEY.
This .Modern and most Elegantl.i-
-!• m ulshed ami Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
t siier, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Hath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing EJirecto".
SOCIETY
“City Father”: The grievous misunder-
standing spread bv the Age regarding the
hones of the late lamented St. George, patron
saint of England, along with a mosaic
memorial floor dug up by Diggers in Pales-
tine, and now in the Melbourne Exhibition,
DEARER BEDCLOTHES.
“Note, mark rtvj words, ’Enery, these ’ere
Sydney papers 'are picked a had time
to put the price up. Summer's coming,
an' people will do without them."
led to | the appearance of a small, grey-
bearded Ziff before constituted authority.
He had noticed the controversy, and was
anxious; to place his knowledge as an expert
at the service of his country to settle finally
the character, quality and date of the bones.
They interrogated the elder. Was he an
antiquarian, an Egyptologist, a biologist, or
what? No, he was none of these things.
“But.” said he, “I’ve been in the rag, bone
and bottle business in Fitzroy for 40 years !”
* * * *
“D.”: The imminent destruction of The
Warren (Sydney), said to be the place
where the first Australian rabbits saw the
light, reminds me. It is the only edifice in
which I have slept successively in a picture-
gallery and a nun’s cell. When I reported
to the Adjutant at The Warren, in 1915
(it was then an artillery training depdt),
he detailed a minion to show me where I
was to sleep. In an enormous and extremely
dirty room were half a dozen mattresses.
There was no other furniture. I was told
that I might get a mattress and some
blankets from the “Quarter.” I did so,
ultimately, and passed a cheerless night.
After the first parade next morning I en-
countered a wily hospital-ship acquaintance.
“Mad, quite mad,” he murmured on learn-
ing that I was in the picture-gallery. “The
place for you,” he said, “is the basement.”
Passing- down numerous winding stairways
we reached a stone passage. Off it were a
number of tiny cells furnished and carpeted.
They looked out on a garden, and the walls
were ornamented with large texts in French
done in bright blue. The last and largest
cell was inhabited by an elderly lady whose
memory I cherish to this day. She made
early-morning tea for us, and in other ways
attended to our comfort. Her bed-sitting-
room had been the still-room, or, as we would
now say. the ice-house, in the far-back days
when Thomas Holt, the N. S. Wales sheep
king, lived in the mammoth place. His
library had become the orderly-room, and
uniformed clerks lurked in turret-chambers
which would have been inhabited by the
keepers of the drawbridge if old Holt had
had the leisure to build a moat. I had. been
there as a very small boy with my father,
who was a friend of the original owner. On
the occasion of mv second advent I found
the bedroom which used to be reserved for
my parent. It had been turned into a
harness-store.
* * * *
“Petifi”: Commodore Dumaresq has the
idea of reviving aboard Australian ships
some of the customs of the old pig-tailed
time—the sailor’s hornpipe and the chantey,
for instance. A couple of hundred Jack
Snooks roaring
Fifteen men on a dead man’s chest.
Yo, ho, ho, and a bottle of rum!
should be worth hearing. But if Dumaresq
is going to use the pig-tail chanteys he’ll
have to do some ruthless blue-pencilling,
else every wowser in Australia will fall
dead from shock.
Otira”: Though the report contains no-
thing that The Bulletin hadn’t told us
already, Maoriland has been mildly shocked
by the finding of the Samoan Epidemic
Commission. Over 8000 deaths
were recorded among the native
population, as a result of the
steamer aalune not being quaran-
tined at Apia when she had cases
of serious sickness on board. The
ship’s voyage from Auckland,
where the epidemic was raging,
was a succession of flagrant
breaches of quarantine laws.
Though two seamen had been
landed with ’flu she had a clean
bill from Auckland. At Fiji she
certainly was quarantined along-
s'de the wharf, but her cargo was
handled and 90 Fijians taken on
board to work the ship while in
the Islands. A very bad feature
of the bu iness was the closing
down bv Colonel Logan of the
wireless station, so that American
offers of help from Pago Pago, 10
hours’ steam away, fell on deaf
instruments. The whole tragedy is
a dreadful reflection on Maoriland
administration. Yet to those who
know Maoriland ways it is not sur-
prising. When ’flu took charge of
Auckland, the mail and passenger
trains still steamed into Welling-
ton, bringing passengers so ill that,
they could scarcely stand. When
Wellington got the infection it was
still possible to protect the South
Island. Yet the ferry-boats ran
gaily, bearing the sickness on every trip.
So the epidemic ran like a flame through
Maoriland, with never a hand raised to stop
it.
*** * .
“Aeroeus”: This optical illusion has
puzzled a lot of us. When you’re aloft and
look at another aeroplane in the air, its pro-
peller appears to revolve so slowly that one
can see the individual blades, though in
the case of a four-bladed propeller with the
engine giving a normal 1700 revolutions per
minute, a blade passes a given point 6800
times every GO seconds. The queer effect
is most noticeable in close-formation flying,
and is very startling to the pupil when he
first observes it, because it makes the
machine appear to be on the point of falling
through lack of speed. I have heard it said
that it is due to the vibration of the machine
affecting the lenses of the eye, so that the
impression received is like a series of snap-
shots, but don’t know if this explanation
would satisfy the scientist.
* * * *
Direct action by a large body of organised
irreconcilables is one thing; direct action
by one unorganised individual is another,
as Michael O’Loughlin has discovered.
Michael, Mrs. Michael and their infant
dwelt at Horsham (Vic.) ; but the lady
wearied of Horsham or of Michael or some-
thing, and went to Melbourne, where she
took a job as waitress at a city cafd. Com-
ing to town Michael had tea at the restau-
rant, and -was waited on by his wife. Natu-
rally they passed the time of day; and when
the conversation went further and the lady
firmly declined to return to the happy homo,
Michael capsized a whole lot of crockery
EASY TO TAKE.
“Ah, I suppose the little man can take a nice powder?“
“If you'll give me one like mother's that I can rah on my nose.”
and smashed three glass-topped tables, all
of which belonged to an outside party who
had nothing to do with Mr. O’Loughlin and
his matrimonial troubles. Michael over-
looked the point which sundry other direct-
actionists miss, that sooner or later the
inoffensive third party gets tired of being
knocked about, and retaliates. Wherefore
Mr. O’Loughlin now has a £4 fine and a
£l5 bill for damages to liquidate.
* * * *
“The Lamb” : In a flash Salisbury pub on
Peace night a very celebrated “Woodbine”
officer zig-zagged over to the only Digger-
present and gurgled, “Shay, Digger, sling’sh
a s’lute. The war’s over and ’av’n’ had s’lute
from ’n Aussie yet.” As it was Peace night
he got it.
* * * *
“K.W.S.”: The average politician is
usually very full of words, but his vocabulary
is often small, and an expression that is at
all unusual will floor him. I remember a
S. Australian who, when Chief Secretary,
came to grief over “penultimate.” I was
professionally interested in a bill then be-
fore the House, and had persuaded Mr. Chief
Secretary to strike out certain words in the
last line but one of a certain clause. I wrote
out the amendment, expressing it: “In the
penultimate line strike out the words...”
I then sent it up to him. He immediately
rose and commenced with great solemnity:
“Mr. President, I have to move a small
amendment to clause 10. It is as follows:
‘ln the ’ ” He stopped dead, muttered
some excuse about illegible writing, and
then thought he had solved it. “Ah. Mr.
President, I have it. ‘ln the perambulate
line strike out ’ ” It recalled an inci-
dent of the days of Ebby 'Ward and Russell.
Russell one day bitterly attacked Ward.
When he had sat down another member
spoke, and then Ebby replied with vigor,
referring continually to Russell as “the pen-
MERELY MARRIED.
ONE (to the other): “And is he her hus-
band?”
THE OTHER: “That's all — poor chap!”
ultimate speaker.” Russell bore it with ris-
ing anger for a while, but finally his patience
gave way. “On a point of order, Mr. Pre-
sident,” he demanded, “is the honorable
member in order in referring to me as ‘the
penultimate speaker’?”
“The Schoolie” : I recently had charge of
a group of schools far back in the hills of
North-Eastern Vic. Between two of the
schools there was a 20-mile track along a
river, and it acquired 10 ghosts during my
term. There were only four houses and this
is the death record: Three drowning acci-
dents, one fatal fall of earth, one fatal sun-
stroke and five suicides. It was the suicides
that set me thinking.
The method, age and
sex varied greatly;
but in each case the
one that went out was
practically uneducated.
In three cases the
quitter could neither
read nor write, llow
far is the Gov-
ernment that
economises b y
cutting out Way-
back schools
responsible?
Melbourne is not to have cheap fish if
the City Council can help it. Bumble
having endorsed the thumbs-down attitude
of the M.C.C. market committee towards
the Fish Commission’s lecent recommenda-
tions. In its report the Commission sug-
gested that fish stalls should Lie established
in the city streets. Aid. George Jeffries
led the opposition. “Gutter barrows,” he
snapped, “are not the places where fish
should be sold, but sanitary and inspected
shops.” During the past twelve-months
police-court disclosures of practices in cer-
tain city fish-shops, mostly run by Dagoes,
have been quite enough to satisfy the fish-
eating public that nothing could be much
worse than the present service. The gutters
are Jeffries’s job, anyway, and there isn’t
likely to be much difference between the
sanitary condition of the fish on a stall three
or four feet away from a neglected gutter
and that of similar goods in a stinking shop
on the other side of the footpath.
*- * * *
“Hydros” : We had not met since the day
we had a drink in Paris. As soon as we
breasted the bar (my shout) he nipped me
for a fag,_and I “built” him one. After he’d
recited 47 verses of poetry about certain
young ladies we'd known “over there,” he
finished his drink and had a pull at the cold
butt. I offered to make him another. “It’s
orright. Dig.,” he said, “I’ll go to the end
of the bar and bite some bloke for a tailor-
made one.”
* * * *
“The Lamb” : The padre is an excrescence
on our military system so far as trooping, at
any rate, is concerned. In three years’
experience I have met only one whose influ-
ence was worth tuppence a week, let alone
the cost of his uniform. This exception was
a man of outstanding personality whose in-
fluence would have been just as great if he
had been a Digger on the troop deck, or an
officer in the first saloon. Their arduous
duties consist of eating three or more first-
saloon meals a day. and holding a service
once weekly. The Diggers are lucky if they
get a perfunctory visit twice a week. I will
not generalise, however. Here are some
samples from my collection: —
Exhibits A and B: Two well-meaning, futile old
women on a boat stricken by epidemic. For mess-
ing I never saw their performance beaten. Hard
work was wanted from every fit man. These two
took temperatures for two days, and then retired to
the saloon. The Y.M.C.A. representative—till then
rather unpopular among the men—worked like a
hero from daylight to dark. There were many
deaths. I was present at most of them. No padre
was present at the critical moment. I had an idea
that that was part of their job.
Exhibit O: I never saw him among the men from
Plymouth to Sydney except at church parade.
Exhibits D to II: These were on a passenger boat
on which a handful of Aussies were proceeding to
England for duty. As far as Bombay it was impos-
sible to avoid running into them. Troops were taken
on there, and after leaving that port the
Aussies only glimpsed one of the band on two occa-
sions. At a port on the way to Blighty, no leave
being granted to troops, Tommies or Aussies, we were
treated to the spectacle of five happy saints speeding
shoreward? accompanied by the lady passengers.
Looking back now I think they were for
once in the right galley.
SILENT WORSHIP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sometimes catch an early boat coming into town;
Slyly look around and note beauties pink and brown.
Shy and cheeky, short and tall, all are good to see ;
But, although 1 love them all, none of them love me.
I ve a pretty wife at home (never mind her now) ;
1 am faithless when I roam, and I’ll tell you how:
From a distance most discreet, in my mind, I lay
All my fortune at the feet of some maiden gay.
With her t don’t want to talk —that would be a bore;
I would dodge a loving walk on some lonely shore.
Only with the mates I know am 1 at my ease;
Let some younger fellow go to her jazzing teas.
It is good to watch her, though ! What a dear she is!
Better than a picture-show—full of fun and fizz!
Chatter, clatter! Not a thought in her pretty head 1
Men arouind me snarl and snort, but I smile instead.
I have got a thousand girls—find ’em every day,
And their ankles, curves and curls cheer me on my
way.'
Bach one passes like a star. Now the trick you know:
Love the darlings from afar — look, and let them go!
N.S.W.
’PHONE 0777.


A Distinguished Member of the Great Cast of the Williamson Grand Opera Co., Sydney,
Count Ercole Filippini, writes of the Value of Clements Tonic for the Nerves:
“Fulfilling extended operatic engagements without sufficient recreation brought
on nervous depression , whicji I found could only be relieved by the use of a
good stimulating medicine , and that I found to be Clements Tonic.
“This I have proved beyond all doubt'd (Signed)p RCOLF FII IP PINT
All professional people should keep this medicine on hand. . It does good because it is good.
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rczelle, N.S.W. - -
“Zanthus”: The fact that the mate of a
sailing-ship escaped internment in Australia
brought Peru into the war against Germany.
Marly in the show a Peruvian barque, the
Morton, cut some curious capers off the Vic.
coast, and a certain amount of suspicion
fell on the second mate. Rut lie produced
papers, apparently all square, to show that
he was a Swede or some other old thing
in the way of a harmless neutral, and was
let go with the barque. Later on the Lorton
was torpedoed just off the Spanish coast.
The captain headed her straight for Spanish
territorial waters, and she looked like get-
ting away, when the Hun second mate
started to make hay of the rigging with an
axe and gave the sub. time to finish the job
outs : de the line. Then he was taken on
board the submarine and left for parts un-
known. Peru was very much annoyed, and
as she got no satisfaction from the Huns
she declared war. It didn’t make a heap
of difference.
* * * *
"Oculist”: The accident to James do
Rothschild which resulted in his eye having
to be enucleated should make golfers extra
careful, especially when they are obliged to
wear concave lenses. l)e Rothschild’s
monocle was very likely concave, and, if
so, a piece was, from the nature of the lens,
easily driven into the eyeballs. Accidents
to the eye from wearing spectacles or even
pince-nez are amongst the rarities of
ophthalmic practice, and when they do occur
you can usually bet that the patient is
wearing a high-powered concave lens. This
kind being thinnest in the centre,
a blow that cracks the periphery is likely,
on account of the elasticity and brittleness
of optical glass, to carry a sharp central
THE ECONOMIST.
“Wonderfully clever girl that!”
“Yes, so I should think. Certainly she can
make a maximum of display on a mini-
mum of chiffon.”
fragment into the eye with disastrous re-
sults. A convex lens, on the other hand,
being thickest in the centre, and presenting
a highly-polished surface, the striking body
usually - glances off it, like a bullet hitting
a steel helmet. The force of the impact is
thus lessened, and the lens cracks instead
of breaking into pieces, so that the eyeball
is contused instead of perforated. A player
who had serious thoughts of wearing a
monocle at the game would do well to consult
an alienist before doing so.
Victorian railwaymen, after a lot of fuss-
ing, have at last published the result of
their 0.8. U. ballot. The V.R.U. has about
10.000 members Those voting m favor of
helping the 0.8. U. movement numbered 6440
and those against were 1812. It looks like
a magnificent victory for 0.8. U. if no notice
is taken of the 5000 who didn t vote; but
the indifferent ones will probably begin to
pay some attention to their interests when
the 0.8. U. tail starts to wag t-he rest of
the V.R.U. dog in the direction of a general
strike.
.** * *
“Copabella” : There was a touch of what
the movies call “heart-interest’ when one
of our contingents went away. Me had
feted the lads, and they were marching back
to the station between rows of admiring
townspeople. Suddenly one young soldier
broke rank, a girl dashed out from the
crowd, and the pair
embraced eloquently,
cor a m po p ill o.
Touched spectators
wept; Phyllis was
taken home, amid
cheers, in the car
of an enterprising
draper; and Corydon
regained his rank
with lips set, eyes
front and so on.
That was about 18
months ago. The in-
cident was revived
when the town again
turned out —to meet
Corydon (with
others) coming borne.
Corydon arrived by
“family ship,” and
brought an English
bride. On the rail-
way platform an in-
terested spectator
was Phyllis, with
her husband and
baby! Again there
were tears—quiet
ones, brushed hastily
away. They were in the eyes of the shy,
lonely little English girl.
“The Oldest Inhabitant” : Sydney’s Old
Exhibition Building (B. 28/8/T9) had yet
another use. When the late G. R. Dibbs
appointed Joey Creer, who had lost his seat
for Northumberland, chief of the newly-
established Labor Bureau, offices were set up
in Cleveland House, and the Exhibition
Building served as a dormitory for homeless,
workless men. Creer insisted that an appli-
cant before getting a bed should be hosed,
and it was wintry weather, too. Joey once
told me gleefully how he had served a press-
man who had come in disguise to get a bed
amongst the unemployed. He personally saw
the hose applied, and the unfortunate
amateur detective was so uncomfortable over
it that when he donned his clothes he left
the building and found a bed elsewhere.
“Oueyn”: Who says Geelong is the tor-
toise of Victoria? Recently an amused few
watched a workman busily chipping out of
a stone on the corner of Melbourne Town
Hall the following inscription : “This stone
was laid by H.R.H. the Duke of Edinburgh,
28th November, 1867. James Stewart But-
ters, Mayor.”
# * * *
“Rusty”: Much of Australia’s inter-State
telegraph business is done by the automatic,
or machine, method. But the groat bulk of
the general business is still done by hand
manipulation of the Morse key. No effort
is made to save the expert from the tele-
graphist’s cramp, or “glass arm,” which this
involves; and every year a large number
of operators develop the cruel occupational
disease. Continuous “sending,” helped by
adverse conditions, produces at first an
inability to properly form a Certain letter,
say. “I’.” When the operator sees his pet
letter ahead he is like a much-fallen steeple-
chaser taking a bad fence. He either rushes
it and mutilates the letter, or baulks alto-
gether. Soon his confidence is gone, his
wrist becomes practically useless, and his
value to the Department is reduced 50 per
cent. In Maoriland, as soon as a tele-
graphist shows symptoms of cramp, he is
placed in a class where his trouble gets
sympathetic treatment, and where he prac-
tises “sending” at a snail’s pace until his
confidence, wrist control and speed return.
One of the cleverest manipulators now in
Australia was once a broken-down “sender”
in M.L. He was saved by the above method.
Here he would have become permanently
broken down and a “passenger.”
“Gent One”: It was the late Justice
Hodges who sat in the Deeming case; and
it is doubtful whether his conduct of the
trial will always be approved. He refused
an application for adjournment made by
Marshall Lyle, who was the solicitor for
Deeming at the inquest. Lyle swore that
he had received information by cable that
Deeming had been confined in an asylum,
and that details were to reach him in three
or four weeks. The Crown did not dispute
tiffs. But Justice Hodges appeared to doubt
counsel’s sworn statement, and in a
characteristic fashion commenced to clinch
his thin lips and toss his judicial head. So
Deeming was “tried,” but without the
evidence of his insanity being put before the
Court. He was convicted as being quite
sane, sentenced as sane, and hanged as
sane, and yet one week after Deeming was
hanged Marshall Lyle received a certificate,
sworn to by the medical men in charge of
an asylum in India, where Deeming had been
confined as a lunatic, certifying to Deeming’s
insanity and giving a detailed account of his
THE WAY OF SALVATION.
HOSTESS: “I'm afraid everybody is fright-
fully bored, John. Nobody’s saying a
word—what shall we do?”
HOST: “Only one thing left. We’d better
both leave the room; then they can talk
scandal about us.”
mental and physical condition during nine
months’ observation of him in the Indian
asylum-. The doctor’s certificate is a com-
plete justification for Marshall Lyle’s action
in applying for a postponement, and of bis
protest against the Judge’s refusal. The
Judge-was wrong. It is no excuse for bis
conduct to say that it was better for the
public that Deeming was hanged. Every
man is entitled to a fair trial. It would never
do to quote Hodges’ conduct in refusing the
adjournment as a precedent to be followed
in the future in Australia. It looks too
much like the one-time popular British
custom of hanging a man first and trying him
afterwards.
“Sternlight”; The mysterious loss of the
Bananaland Government steamer Llewellyn
has set a lot of us mariners guessing. One
chance shot is that the little vessel struck
Bailey Island, which lies 14 mile off the
direct track to Townsville, stands only
120 ft., and on a black night is very difficult
to pick up because it is overshadowed by
THE GODS’ APOLOGIES.
"In order to alleviate Mr. Hughes’s indisposition it
became necessary to reduce the speed of the
steamer.” —News item.
AMGEL (with umbrella hoisted ): “I was
sent to apologise to Mr. Hughes on
account of the rain and rough weather.”
St. Bees, whose height is 1240 ft. On a
dirty night, perhaps with strong cross tides,
many a sailor has heaved a sigh of relief
when he has safely passed this trap. It is
the talk amongst shipping men that the Com-
monwealth navigation people, in their scheme
for lighting the Bananaland coast, intend
establishing a light on Prudhoe Island,
which is 1074 ft. high, and lies seven miles
from the direct track. As one of those who
are constantly up and down this part of the
coast, I consider that the light would be of
more service if placed on Bailey Island.
With this I believe all seafarers will agree.
Another proposed alteration is the removal
of Pine Island light to Pine Peak, but it
would be of more value on Walter Island,
this being a turning point. Sandy Cape,
the scene of a few disasters, has been im-
proved by the Breaksea lightship. But it
could be bettered by a small light placed
on Indian Head, so that when the main
light on Sandy Cape is obscured by' rain
or haze, and the land hard to make out, a
good departure could be made from Indian
Head. * * *
Sydney Kidman has ceased to have land
interests in every State. The Speck's Gov-
ernment has bought the King Island place,
Yambacoona, owned by Kidman and Strick-
land. paying £69,000 for its 8000 acres, of
which 500 are under lucerne. It has been
bought for soldier settlement, and as 150
men are coming back to King Island the
Speck's Repatriation Minister reckons that
the 40 allotments will soon go.
*.* * *
“Baliv”: Tin* late Hopetoun, as indicated
in B. 28/8/T9, was human and affable at
his Executive Council meetings, where,
“business over, he usually had a story to
tell.” When I was a young fellow I be-
longed to the old Queenscliffers, who wore
a lovely uniform and were greatly admired
by all sorts of people. A fair proportion
of ns were “scions of the Western District
squattoerncy,” had plenty of money, rode
horses into pubs, and so on, and were plea-
sant devils, no doubt. Sometimes we were
sent up to Melbourne to tuko ji turn on mill-
tary guard at Guvmentouse, and more or
less had the run of things around the corner,
if vou know what I mean. Those were the
days orright, and I could tell —but I won t.
Some nights, when there had been a shivoo,
Hopetoun would come into our room hoist
himself up on the table with a broad gnu
and swap yarns for an hour, returning lull
measure for our best, efforts. He had a nic©
tast» in such matters, and owned a consider-
able library of tales with a heliotrope border.
A good fellow —and peace, to his ashes!
* « * *
The S M. Herald lias found a substitute
for the tattered old phrase “pronounced life
extinct.” Last week a Sydney man tell
under a train and was practically cut in
two. In its first three-ha’penny issue, the
Herald recorded the fatality and wound
up : “Dr. confirmed the fact of death.”
The old sheet is going to look worth that
extra ha’penny if a ne\v black bonnet-string
can do it.
• * * »
“Topee”: I've lobbed in from Mesopo-
tamia just in time to flatly contradict
“Gunner’s” assertion (8., 14/8/T9) _ that
nurses were not barred from associating
with private soldiers. I knew a chap whose
sister was a nurse in a hospital up the
Tigris. He met her one evening and'was
spotted bv a brass-hat. It nearly cost
brother a court-martial. Many an officer
worked harder to preserve the “officer
caste” than he did to win the war.
• * * *
“W. .T. Digger”: They called him “Hes-
sian” because his manners w'ere devoid of
lustre. But lie won his commission by
sheer merit, and he handled his platoon \yith
the skill and dexterity that once upon a time
had made him a champion among bullocks.
When we got back lo
a rest camp and re-
formed the mess, young
Algy was detailed,
tactfully, to help him
with his table manners.
“Hessian” promptly
called for a cup of tea,
poured half of it into
his saucer, and gulped
it down. “Don’t you
find it gets very cold
that way?” su'd Algy;
“I always think it
tastes in uc h better
from the cup.” But
“Hessian” waved him
off. “Every time I drink outer my cup.”
he exclaimed, “I stick the spoon in my
eye.”
“The Lamb”: Our little lot of Diggers
were at the Folies Bergeres one night.
There was a grand patriotic finale to the
show, with flags of all nations. The final
movement brought down to the footlights
four delicious girls with four extra-size
flags —England, France, U.S.A., and Aus-
tralia. We roared our approval. Five
seconds later the prettiest little minx of the*
lot marched through, and waved to a loudly-'
applauding house and six frantic Diggers
the Aussie flag on its own. That's how
Paris got me,
PROVIDENT MISS SPRING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We’re told this year the sweet Spring maid
Will bloom in beauty on the Block
In wondrous garments disarrayed,
So scant her newest little frock
It will not serve to hide her knees;
So short the fashionable sock
That Brother Wowser when he sees
Will probably succumb to shock.
They say the Spring gown will be made
Of gossamers diaphanous,
With little underneath to aid
In hiding elegance from us.
The Spring-time girl will also go
With arms so bare, an awful fuss
Must well, up from the Holy Jo
The moment he beholds her thus.
I ll have, dear, no rebuke for you.
Socks low and skirts quite otherwise
May in this arid heart renew
A calf-love that long buried lies.
You're welcome, come you thin or fat:
At length the styles will realise
Those fabulous reductions that
The drapers always advertise.
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


THE
UNION TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
ACTS
in the States of NEW SOI'TH WALES,
VICTORIA and QUEENSLAND
as Executor or Joint Executor of Wills,
Trustee of Settlements, Administrator,
Attorney under power for Absentees, or
as Agent for Management of Estates or
Investment of Moneys.
BEING THE ONLY TRUSTEE COMPANY
EMPOWERED TO ACT IN MORE THAN ONE
STATE it affords its clients unique advantages
in the way of FAVORABLE REALISATION
AND INVESTMENT OF ASSETS, AMPLE
SECURITY, EXPERT MANAGEMENT, CON-
TINUITY OF CONTROL, LOW CHARGES.
SYDNEY OFFICE —15 O’CONNELL STREET.
Directors: Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar,
K.C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman), Hon. James
Ashton, M.L.C., Hon. H. Y. Braddon,
M.L.C., F. B. S. Falkiner, M.H.R., .Tames
Kidd, W. H. Mackay, R. M. Pitt, Duncan
Sinclair.
V, G. WATSON, JOHN MAIR,
Assistant Manager. Manager.
CALL OR SEND FOR COMPANY’S BOOKLET.
d
deaf?
You can HEAR,
and tee prove it
by sending you,
post free, an easy-
to-icear
Acousticon
on 10 Days’
FREE TRIAL
No deposit, no obligation, no expense. Over
330,000 delighted users, including the Prime
Minister, Mr. Hughes, who has been using
the “Acousticon” for more than five years!
The “Acousticon” will safely and surely
enable you to hear. Convince yourself at our
expense and
DON’T STAY DEAF.
Lamson
StoreT.
1 Service
102 Daking; Hmse, SYDNEY
Olderfleet,' ol ins St.,MELB.
N.Z.: John Procter, ZOO High St., Christc’h.
W.A.: H. Little & Co., 851 Hay Street, Perth.
Hotel Sydney
The Spacious Dining
Hall is a Rendezvous
of Eminence for
LUNCHEONS
and
DINNERS.
ITEMS—
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA.
CHARniNG ROOF GARDEN.
Management E. T. CHEESEMAN.
THe
finest
TOBACCO
IIIMS
mimmm
PLUG SLICE
Will Kot
Bite the
Tongue.
EDGEWORTH
M PERSONAL
To-day (September 4) is the 50th anni-
versary of the death of the founder of
Melbourne, John I’useoe Fawkner. He
arrived at Port Phillip Heads a boy
11 years of age with his parents in ISO 3.
In the following year the whole of the
“settlement,” excepting Buckley, who
escaped, removed to the Derwent. In 1814
Fawkner crossed to Sydney and remained
three years, when he returned to Hobart
Town. In 1819 he went to Launceston, and
in 1835 to Port Phillip again, where he
founded a newspaper and a city. During
his 65 years’ residence in Australia and
Tasmania he never once visited England;
and after settling in Melbourne he never
left the colony, even to visit Tasmania or
N. S. Wales.
“Factor”: There is one Australian I
would like to shake hands with. When the
troopship-'Southland was torpedoed in the
Aegean Sea in T 5 T
was one of the 43
Maorilanders aboard.
After we had pulled
our crowded boat
what seemed about
five miles away from
the stricken trans-
port we met an Aussie
holding up a couple of
others who couldn’t
swim. All he wanted
us to do was to take
aboard one who had
“gone to sleep.” The
other one he “reckoned
he could manage all
right.” We chanced
the three of them.
I’ve never seen any
mention of that heroic
Digger in despatches.
Capt. the Hon.
FINCH KNIGHTLY,
Military Fee. to
the Governor-General.
A send-off to a big man :
The chance that there was a poet about raised the
moderate-sized scrap of the Light Brigade to the
dignity of an epic, and the success which Lafayette
and his army brought with them made Washington
a greater hero than he was, and from being a hero
he became a saint, which he didn’t want to be.
Louis Botha, deceased, was, on the evidence, a bigger
man than Washington, but he might not look so
big because the men with whom Washington was
compared were much smaller. Botha hardly lost
a battle, and he fought more and larger ones than
Washington. His was a single-handed fight with
a white population of 300,000 behind him against
over 40,000,000. Washington’s country had 3,000,000
white people against Britain’s 15,000,000. Also,
just when Washington’s cause threatened to give up
the ghost, two great European Powers came to his
aid and gave his side a trained army and temporary
eommand of the sea. Both men became rulers,
but Botha had an overlord in London, a divided
white race to rule and reconcile, and a stupendous
colored problem, and was in the anomalous position
of a leader of the conquered race ruling over the
conquerors. Washington, with none of these draw-
backs, did no better. They both helped to make a
new Federal State, and one did the job as well as
the other. Washington never put on the panoply
of war after his elevation. Botha, as the first
Prime Minister of a British State who led an army
in person, made his last campaign the most brilliant
of all. He died in harness and avoided the absurd
mistake of outliving his fame. Botha’s colleague
Smuts is also a soldier and statesman, and the fact
that he was to a great extent the originator of the
plan of the League of Nations will be remembered
to his credit if the scheme endures. The Boers,
equal in number to less than half the population of
Sydney, are the smallest separate white race in the
Empire, but their output of big men has been mar-
vellous.
To visitors to the Otway country ("\ ic.) no
man was better known than Felix Rosser,
with his yarns of fishing, trapping, bush-
falling and smuggling. From the beginnings
of settlement he had been bullock-puncher,
timber-getter and fisherman of startling
daring. He helped in salving persons and
goods from most of the many vessels
wrecked on that rocky coast, his experiences
going as far back as the Scammell. At times
he had less open
vocations, and used to
chuckle over being
engaged as guide by a
police party detailed
to check tobacco-
smuggling. Rosser
safeguarded the prin-
cipal cache, his own,
by choosing that spot
for the police camp,
and setting the guide’s
tent over it. His name
was given to a street
in the boom-township
of Torquay. The
bushland in the end
claimed the pioneer.
Setting out from Tor-1
quay with his gun to
visit Jan Juc he dis-
appeared. Police and
trackers made search,
but it was not till
nearly, a week later
that the old man's
body was found in the
rough country.
ALDERMAN
W. LAMBERT ,
Bee. A AV.U., Pres.
A.L.P., N.S.W.
lake Victoria’s Lieut.-Gov. Irvine, the
late General Botha, of S. Africa, was con-
nected with a family of prominent Irish
‘ rebels.” Botha was married to a descend-
ant of the Emmets. Irvine is a nephew of
John Mitchel.
Dr. John Dunne, recently dead at
Bathurst, was the third R.C. bishop of that
diocese. The first was Mathew Quinn, who
came in 1865 and worked for 20 years;
the second, Dr. J. Byrne, who died in 1901.
Dr. Dunne, ordained in 1870, arrived in
Sydney in 1871, and all his subsequent
years were spent in the diocese of Bathurst.
He was a quiet and unassuming man, who
never sought the limelight.
There has been another batch of Labor
appointments to Queensland Leg. Council
to help it to commit suicide, and now there
are three Joneses in the Chamber—Alt,
Minister of Mines; T. L., former member
tor Oxley; and Cuffe Jones, soldier-Lajborite.
Also, there is a Parnell and a Purnell, who
sit opposite one another; and Curtis and
< ourtice like to have the President’s chair
between them, too. The Labor reps, in the
Council now number 20 in a House of 50
members.
Recollections of an old wig:—
I wonder if, as he waited and waited
for the jurj- in the Hvan-Aitoirs case, High
Court Justice Isaacs’s mind went back to his
first day in a N. S. Wales court. He had been
retained in a big Sydney case and, his reputation
being very high in Melbourne, his brief had been
marked 500 guineas. In the same case, on the
same side, was a leading “silk” who refused to act
with Isaacs unless his brief was co-marked with the
same fee. The parties to the action declined this,
and Isaacs, seeing the difficulty, relieved his would-
be clients by withdrawing. But, all the same, he
came to Sydney and applied to the Full Court for
admission. I was present on the occasion. The
keen little Hebrew sat in the second seat back from
the table in the old Banco Court. When his name
was called he stood up with his stuff gown and bands
on. He bowed to the Judges and was admitted.
He then produced his wig, put it on his head,
thanked their Honors and at once withdrew. But,
though admitted, he never looked for cases in Sydney.
Before the northern climate got him at
Cairns at 85, William Martin managed to
crowd a few adventures into his young life.
Landing from London in the ’fifties, he was
attracted to Ballarat and Bendigo, and twice
! thereafter Ben Hall, the bushranger, held
■ him up. He skipped from the Turon rush
i (N.S.W.) to Queensland, and took part in
i the capture of the murderers of the explorer
r Wills at Cullinaringo station, Springsure.
; Then he decided to trip to Cooktown, and
■ though the schooner in which he sailed was
: wrecked in a gale, he got there and made
1 for the Palmer rush. Coming back to Cairns
! he helped to. finish the roasted bullock sac-
; rificed to mark the turning of the first sod
! of the railway in 1885. Ten years ago he
decided that he had pursued excitement far
enough, and rested until the end came.
Amongst the men from down under who
are fighting in Russia is Major M. Jordan,
of Maoriland, recently appointed technical
adviser to General Deniken’s artillery force.
When the war gong clamored in 1914 Jordan
was an engineer in the service of the N.Z.
Shipping Co., and in Ixmdon joined the
British Army as a ranker. He fought with
the reinforcements of the First Division in
Flanders, and was at the defence of Ypres.
Good work in the field and at the examina-
tion desk got him the appointment of Inspec-
tor of Coast Defences from Bristol to Devon-
nort. Next he was at Salonika, and later
he was scrumming against the Unspeakable.
Alienby recommended the young man for the
job in the Caucasus.
All the Gordon and Gotcli businesses have
been re-amalgamated, and the new co. will be
Gordon and Gotch (Australasia), Ltd. It
is just 66 years since an old Scot, large,
angular and solid, started a small news-
agency in the Western Market, Melbourne.
“Home” papers were then much in demand
among the newchums arriving weekly, and
Mr. Gordon, the large, angular old Scot,
imported many. Later he left “Bowden’s
Folly,” as the Western Market was called,
and established himself in a small shop next
door to the Clarendon Hotel, now the site
of “Scott’s.” Here it was that he was
joined by Mr. Gotch. From there the busi-
ness spread ; but later on the branches got
into distinct hands—an anomaly which has
now at last been corrected.
Deany, who succeeded John Murray as
member for Warrnambool, told the Supreme
Court last week that he was a sanitary in-
spector before he became a Parliamentarian.
Bowser had a leaning towards him when
there was a vacancy for whip just before
John was bowed out of the Cabinet. An
expert in the art of sniffing out the things
that cause trouble would be an acquisition
to any Government.
Fred Purcell, who has been selected by
the National Federation to contest the
Echuca seat in the Reps., vacant through
Palmer’s death, runs the town at Yea. lie
owns a store and a weekly newspaper, is
the heavyweight of the shire council and
generally gets his own way. His dad was
given a start as a storekeeper by the late
John Wishart Cairns over 40 years ago. and
he passed on his gains to his family. Fred
won his majority in the S. African war,
and had a long job as a remount man at
Maribyrnong (Vic.) while the big war was
on. His wife, who was one of the Ander-
sons, owns some broad acres, and he is con-
nected by marriage with the Snodgrass
family.
“Don” Fisher, who has been having a lively
scrap with Arthur Henderson, formerly a
member of the Lloyd George Ministry, for
a seat. iu the British House of Commons,
was Minister for Internal Affairs in Maori-
land when the war started. He was dropped
while Massey and Ward were fusing and
fled to London. He is 42 years young
and a fine tennis player; also, a slick
politician and a smart debater with not
enough political scruple to sink him. There
is something characteristic about his answer,
cabled the other day, to an interjecter who
wanted to know what he did in the war—
that Kitchener advised him to serve his
country by doing propaganda work ! Fisher
the youngest son of one of the ablest and
shiftiest public men Maoriland ever knew—
George Fisher, a member of the House of
Reps, for a generation.
W. D. S. MacDonald, Minister of Mines
and other Departments in Maoriland, who
is mentioned as a probable M.L. Prime
Minister, is an Australian born. When, as
a youth, he swagged it to the Laclilan-side,
he reached one of Jimmy Tyson’s stations
at a stirring moment. A buck-jumper was
scattering station-hands over the landscape.
Tyson challenged the Victorian to ride the
horse. The youngster did it, and Tyson
gave him a job that he held for 18 months.
Then he went west to Momba. beyond Wil-
cannia, the biggest sheep-run in N. S. Wales,
and had his first experience of stone-walling.
He had camped with a mob of wethers, and,
waking in the night, thought he saw a line
of them making off. He ran for half a mile
to head them before he found he was sprint-
ing alongside a natural wall of stones, which
looked like sheep in the moonlight. The
only time MacDonald has re-visited Aus-
tralia in 37 years was two years ago, to
meet Billy Hughes and make a deal for a
million bushels of wheat for Maoriland.
M hen the war put a stop to the building
of houses in Hobart, Clive E. Lord left off
being an architect and turned his hobby
of bug-huntmg and bird-study into a pro-
blem Since then he has been shaking
the dust out of
the corners of the
Hobart Museum
and keeping the
Royal Society in
order. As sec. of
the National Park,
he prowled all over
that stretch of love-
liness ; and besides
publishing a cata-
logue of Tassy
birds and numerous
pamphlets, he has
recently been un-
earthing some
valuable specimens
of whales. Lute
most of its ilk, the
Museum still lacks
the oof-bird, how-
ever, and its cries
to the Government
are pitiful. In his
spare time Lord
extends his six-
foot-two on the
local rifle range.
PHIL FINKEL-
STETN, J. C.
Williamson's press
agent, who is con-
ducting the Peace
Loan publicity cam-
paign in Victoria.
W. M. Hughes on his way across the con-
tinent delivered a speech at Port Augusta
at 5 a.m. The emperor Charles V., who had
a better digestion than Hughes, used to eat
a breakfast of a whole fowl and sundries at
the same hour. What early risers these
great men are !
It takes something to stop the Australian
boy. Tom O’Shannessy, a Port Fairy (Vic.)
youngster, decided to go trapping rabbits
on Julia Percy Island, 12 miles off the main-
land. He refused to take in a partner, and
Spent several weeks alone, a boat calling
every now and then with supplies. Then
young Crusoe developed a nasty cold, and.
fearing ’flu, started home in a flat-bottomed
punt he had built for himself just after
leaving school. The Dreadnought consisted
of about two armfuls of timber, and it took
the captain from mid-day Sunday to tea-time
to navigate it to Port Fairy wharf. The
Australian Navy should set a trap to catch
that sort of youth early.
Elder, Smith and Co., the Adelaide con-
cern which handles shipping, pastoral affairs
and most other things which show a profit,
has just celebrated its 80th birthday. Tom
Barr Smith, chairman of directors, son of
one of the two men who built it up and
nephew of the other, reminded the annual
meeting that the firm made a modest start
in the hands of A. L. Elder in 1889, when
South Aus. was an infant of two-and-a-half.
Ex-sergeant Lister, M.H.R. for Corio, is
another disillusioned politician. Lately he
had to take a trip north for the good of his
health, and when he returned he declared
that for two pins he would get out of the
political game for good, its material pros-
pects being so pbor. However, the Nation-
alist party leaders talked to him about his
dutv to the country, and he glumly decided
to have another go for the seat. The
Farmers’ Union is also taking a hand, so
perhaps relief may come that way.
A stalwart soggarth is Padre Clune, M.C.,
who returned lately. He was one of the
Marrickville (Sydney) Passionists when the
gong sounded, and was with the A.I.F. at
Gallipoli and in France. He was wounded
once, mentioned in despatches divers times,
and got the M.C. in 1918. The whis-
kered padre early caught the Diggers’ regard
as a good bloke, and when, single-handed,
he captured six Prussian Guards, they said.
“’S’truth, he’ll do us!" He is a brother of
the R.C. Archbishop of Perth.
A course of lectures on Democracy by
Prof. Meredith Atkinson, at Melbourne
Public Library, has just been cut off in the
middle. Atkinson, a recent introduction from
Sydney Unfit where he was director of tutor-
ial studies, was a sort of Balaam, who went
the wrong way for the Trustees. The case
was somewhat like that of Professor Morris,
the second headmaster of Melb. C. of E.
Grammar School, where he succeeded the
pioneer Bromby. Chief Justice Iliginbotham
(whose daughter Morris married) inspired
him to lecture on Land Reform. This
crabbed the squatter fathers of the boys.
Either Morris must go, or the boys would,
and reluctantly the Bishop parted with an
excellent principal.
(Continued on page 18.)
THE DISCRIMINATING GUNNER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
"I am against the profiteer and I am against the
Bolshevist; and if I had my way I would shoot
them both.”—lf. M. Hughes.
The dove cooes sweetly o’er its wide dominions,
The olive spreads and takes a wider root;
But when men turn down me and my opinions,
1 tell you that the time has come to shoot.
1 stand for —well, I stand for explanations,
For thinning out the fogs that seem so thick ;
And when I’ve finished all my perorations
I’m going to bomb and burst the Bolshevik.
The profiteer ? Well, that's another matter.
What is a profiteer? I’d like to know.
But find an enemy of mine grown fatter.
And I'll denounce him as a public foe!
I’ve friends who’re fat! And friendship’s ties are
tender.
I hold the bond of mateship very dear.
\\ ar has its gains. For these now fat, once slender,
1 shall bring nought but comfort and good cheer.
But keep your eye upon the men who hate me,
For, be they rich or poor, I’ll use the boot.
The. ballot looms—l’ll see how parties rate me;
And when I shoot I’ll take care who I shoot!
x.s.w.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


m
llllii
r JBMHI lip
,
: ■ ■’:
..' :
/
->■/' <£?%?
; :
■ ■■-. ■. ■ . ;
i
. .
.
hhl
WM
V
■I
i £
SHi
' * ♦*
mm
lillllßlll
: i
■ xmmmmMmmgm
■, .
• i . ,rN
■
*
.: ••• • '-.'U ,
I :
M
m
SHIP |igp§i|»
Wimß
.
■P
HgM
,’ '' . .
n
m
f\ GOOD MAT
A GOOD JUDGE WILL USE
LM N pipes
pipe Guaram
rvery
am
LMN


lifs
V
BHSS
0 vs
• •.
•J.Uf
0-Si
‘'mSgz ■
0-? u-a
EM4,
♦
EHS
jWfy . 3&s*s£9ws«oS
O-i .; 0-4 ' £>-&
' / ~’,,, .'" 4 ';
\* ' P (vie x p
«?*
—S.&3s*3 5 * ‘
f«?S V ?
♦
i>
fe.
.ii I S
- : - C-74
GENERATOR and SELF=STARTING
MOTOR BRUSHES for All Systems,
including DELCO, REMY,
WESTINGHOUSE, AUTOLITE,
APPLECO, BIJUR, etc.
NIEHOF
CONTACT
PARTS'
The main feature of the NIEHOFF “Spares” is “Quality.”
They are made from only the very best material, and are
correct duplicates of all standard systems.
The Contact Parts are made in Platinum, Iridium for
Magnetos, and Tungsten for Battery=Distributor Systems.
Complete range of parts in stock for all cars.
MOODY <a CO.,
Australian Distributing Agents, 343 Kent Street, Sydney.
’Phone : CITY 1740, 1741.
Victorian Agent: J. J. MEYER, 117 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
CONDENSERS, SLIP RINGS,
and SPARE PARTS for All
Magnetos and Ignition Systems.
PAUL G. NIEHOFF, Chicago.'
Factory Reps.—THOMPSON, MEGGITT & CO. LTD., Daily Telegraph Buildings, Sydney.
II Kingston had not died when he did
.Tosnih Symon would have had at least as
gooc| a chance as Griffith of being the first
Chief Justice of the High Court.
When Governor Gawler first addressed the
S. Australian blacks, after an eloquent
peroration he waved his cocked hat. This
delighted a native perched on a neighboring
gumtree. “Budgeree cockatoo Gubernor!”
he yelled. It was “Cockatoo Gawler” for the
rest of liis Ex.’s stay in S. Aus.
The navigation of the Fitzroy (Q.) and
its s tributary, the Dawson, goes back to
1855.. In that year four gold diggers, John
Dinniney, William Emmons, Donald McLeod
and 1 Alexander MacKinlay, went in a canoe
from Rio station, on. the Dawson, to Rock-
hampton. They were seven days making
the passage, and reckoned the distance at
250 miles. Their dugout, made from a
bottle-tree, was 10 feet long, with a beam of
3$ feet.
The first of the 10.000.000-odd grape vines
now growing about Mildura was planted 60
years ago by T. D. Gordon, Customs officer
at Wentworth, on the N. S. Wales side of
the Murray. He stuck in a cutting at the
homestead of the old Mildura run, then
owned by the Jamiesons, and it did so well
that others were planted along the river.
It was about 30 years later that the Chaffeys
came and started to grow grapes on a big
scale at Mildura.
Australia’s first woman architect was Mrs.
Elizabeth Macquarie. Architecture was a
hobby of hers, and many of the public
buildings put in hand by Governor Mac-
quarie in the earlier part of his reign were
from plans drawn by convict draftsmen act-
ing under her suggestions. The first Govern-
ment architect was Francis Howard Green-
wav, originally an architect of some stand-
ing in England, who was transported to
N.S.W. and was appointed to the job by
Macquarie in 1815 at a salary of 3s. a day.
The Speck supplied at least one of the
“Old Contemptibles”—Captain Basil Gordon
Nicholas, of the 12th Lancers. He toured
France with the First British Expeditionary
Force, and was in the retreat from Mons
and the Battle of the Marne. Incidentally
he got three or four wounds. Nicholas, who
is now home on furlough, is a son of the
Ouse-district squatter who is popularly sup-
posed to be the Speck’s wealthiest sheep-
grower. A younger brother, Henric, served in
the Light Horse as a private, and passed
out during the Sinai Campaign.
Like justice Higgins, of the High Court,
Irvine, Chief Justice and Lieut.-Governor of
Vic., reads Plato and other ancient birds in
the original Greek as other men play golf.
But Irvine is also keen on modern lan-
guages; he is a good Spanish and Italian
scholar, much given to reading Cervantes,
Caledron, Lope de Vega and other Spanish
writers. His love and knowledge of
Spanish literature, which is greatly and un-
justly neglected in Australia, he shares with
A. B. Piddington, K.C.. chairman of the
Inter-State Commission, who has gone to the
length of publishing translations.
A striking feature in the history of the
Sjjeck is the way leading families of the old
V .D.L. days have drifted off, leaving no re-
presentatives. The pastoral rush to Port
Phillip in the ’thirties took many, and the
gold rush more; and right through there has
been a tendency for active people to seek
more elbow-room. This has affected the
sleepiest districts as much as the cities. A
century ago 33 leading landholders at Pitt-
water, then the granary of the island, signed
a protest against a now system of paying
lor corn taken into the Government stores.
To-day only 1 1 of the names are to be found
anywhere in that region, and in some cases
the present holders are not descended from
the old-timers.
Melbourne Argus man Donnelly used to
tell of a pleasant half-hour spent in inter-
viewing Simon Fraser. Donnelly was an
R.C., so his first care was to avoid pre-
senting a card, for he saw that the old
Orange Leaguer had confused him with
Macdonald. Finally Simon, certain that
the Argus would not be guilty of sending
a “Papist” to interview him, brought the
conversation round to the sectarian point.
Dropping his voice to an impressive whis-
per he informed Donnelly that he could
detect an R.C. by his manner. “I can
smell the religion,” snapped the local boss
of the L.O.L. “Luckily I caught the old
chap when he had a bad cold,” said the
papistical journalist afterwards.
H. W. Gepp, whose get-down-to-work
expression is shown herewith, is general
manager of the Electrolytic Zinc Co., and
is trying to show Australia that ]t really
can’t afford to send away so much dirt —
with its wool, with its wheat, with its ores,
or with any-
thing else. His
co. is princi-
pally concerned,
however, in get-
ting Australia
to keep the dirt
it now sends
away with its
spelter.—hither-
to it has been
sending about
six tons of dirt
to every four
tons of th e
metal, and pay-
ing Germans
and Belgians to
do the cleaning.
Twenty - five
years ago Edgar
Ashcroft, wh o
took the largest
size in boots
ever seen on
an Australian
smelting floor,
tried to harness
electricity to the
problem ; but he
was ahead of his time, and the experiment
cost the Sulphide Corporation a lot of
money. The slow old plan of distilling zinc
continued for a few years longer ; and then
the electrolytic process came with a rush.
Fortunately the Baillieus and other men
with big ideas had become interested in
zinc. At first it was only to get a little
of the dirt out; but later on another co.
was formed to make use of Tasmanian
water-power to get the rest out, and Gepp,
who had been previously with the oil-
flotation process cos. at Broken Hill —lie
was born in S. Aus. —was put in charge.
The co., with SO or 90 tons of money
behind it, hasn’t exactly flooded the world
with spelter yet (zinc becomes spelter when
it gets on the market) ; but there is going to
be one. verv disappointed chemist if the
enterprise fails. It is already producing
a little.
“Petramos”: Queer fish the originators of
the Irish National Theatre movement. W. B.
Yeats and George Moore collaborated in a
three-act play, “Diarmid and G rani a.” At
the outset Yeats told Moore that the first
act was to be horizontal, the second perpen-
dicular, and the third circular. Moore wanted
to know what it meant, whereon Yeats
left in disgust, making no effort to explain.
The incident postponed the collaboration, but
the play was eventually staged. Moore also
had his eccentricities. He left the R.C.
Church because he didn’t like the stained-
glass windows, and while absorbing the
Gaelic language had his hall-door painted a
bright green. Considerable financial assist-
ance was expected from Edward Martyn but
th ? ‘, no , vem f nt - . donating instead
±10,(100 to establish a boys’ choir in London
voices 8S reason that he hated female
An old broker reminisces:—
With toe purchase of the Old Exchange from the
MOler famdy, out goes the hope of the old brigade
that the happy day would come when the £250 000
Stock Exchange premises opposite would be sold
and they would all drift back to the rabbit-warren
opposite. There in the vestibule Billy Jones, Staples
Alfied Clarke, Pym, Wallen, Joe Thompson, Woolf
John Goodall, Were, Vickery, Slade, Kerr, Donald-
son, Wilder, Strange, Willie Clark, John Jack
Koall, Chapman, Lionel Robinson and scores of othe'
of the old hands did their gambling through the big
gold and silver booms. Melbourne' in those days
could run not only the Melbourne Stock Exchange
but also the Stock Exchange of Victoria, and an open
call as well. Prices were magnificent, and coins, in
some of the big offices for month after month ran
into five figures. The track from Melbourne to
Broken Hill during the fi st boom in the late
’eighties was lined with champagne dead-marines, for
trips were frequent and expenses a mere detail.
Think of the old Norths at £4, with Billy Jones tak-
ing 5000 for a flutter, and clearing them out at a
slapping profit a few minutes later! Block 10’s, too,
at £l2, and Staples getting supplied with lines’of a
thousand each from such plungers as Beilin and
Clark or others of the big jobbe:s. This was just
before “Tens” soared to £lB, to Staples’s great
profit. There was hatched the Round Hill “corner,”
in which Dix and Fitzgerald Moore and Greenway
figured so dramatically, with Dix flattened out in
the end. There, too, the big fight over the right to
advertise sales set membeis by the ears, resulting
in the formation of the present Exchange. Disaster
came to many of the old hands with the smash-up
of the land-boom, with its welter of liquidations and
the fatal “B” list. Under this brokers had to accept
responsibilities in respect to shares with liabilities
that had passed through their hands for sale. A
few brokers still have offices in the old warren-
offices off the vestibule—but about the only old-
stager left (and he doesn’t wo ry over share deals
nowadays) is George Woodford. Near by Byron
Moore still hangs out his Collins-street sign. No
such combination of boom episodes ever occurred in
Australia as in those days, and at no time has there
been such a volume of cash and financed business
among share jobbers and speculators, nor such whop-
ping smashes. B. J. Fink, who had his office next
door, one day awoke to the fact that London was
sniffing for Australian Broken Hill Consols shares.
Previously his holding of 20,000 had been written off
as valueless. He sent 10,000 to London as a feeler,
got 10s. each for them and planted the rest at over
20s. But the proceeds went the way of the rest of
has cash —backing up land specs. F. M. Dickenson
for a time joined G. D. Meudell in a broking com-
bination, and Leslie MacDonald tried his luck; but
both drifted back to their old secretarial jobs. With
all the cash that went through it is marvellous how
little stuck on the way. John Goodall, Howard,
Billy Jones and Chapman cleared out well lined, but
most of the others made nothing like the pots that
came to Lionel Robinson, Willie Clark or the Bail-
lieu combination from the West, and the later days
of Broken Hill. They had been through other booms
and got canny.
HARLEQUIN WAITS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Beside the fire, dead Columbine,
I dream a'lone and dream of you.
I watch the dainty, dancing flames
Unfold their g'race-like petal-girls,
Or living lilies, molten pearls,
In jewel hues that have no names,
In shapes from fairy-tales untold—
Mad little fauns and nymphs that play
Till amber arms outflung have met
With arms of velvet violet,
So wild, so delicate, so gay!
How well I know and love, ah me,
That pretty, pagan revelry!
They mingle locks of blue and gold,
They kiss and melt and intertwine
Their liquid limbs of gold and blue ;
Oh, dainty, dancing Columbine,
I watch, and I remember you!
If you should come, dead Columbine
(How long the years I’ve wanted you!),
chill me with your cold, sweet breath,
I would but die with joy, and straight
Be young and strong and passionate.
I'll bow and kiss my hand to Death,
And catch you by your supple waist,
And you will measure steps with me;
We'll point our toes and pirouette
To where the last great Stage is set
Beyond the silver Galaxy,
Weave twinkling chains from star to star
And never care how fast, how far
We whirl together, dance-enlaced;
And all old griefs of yours and mine
You‘'ll spurn away with saucy shoe.
Come little ghost of Columbine,
I grow so weary, wanting you!
VICTORIA.
ELSIE COLE.


tm
m
r
PW*tri ’tMW/rrrrmrr
m> *%
' V
m
)\
A''
7/m
J
§
2Stfr\s> „
vw
n: >
HI
W
5*
Ki *v <
Jsph v
A
i-
Vus
SS&:
/* t
«5,
w
$&• ■•
/'/<»
V. . .
OmKh o
*4?**
WT/t
-«r
I
4/
W/J/
d
The drudgery of washing day turns to a
pleasure by using the laundry aid
CVnou)c(rop)o&p
TOR home defence ( J /
A SOAP with an OLD-FASHIONED
QUALITY. "SNOWDROP” Soap
gives to your laundry that snow-white purity
which is so great a charm. Made for the
Australian woman -who, living amongst so
much sunshine needs so many white frocks
and accessories -"SNOWDROP” SOAP
Willie found the perfect soap for all laundry
purposes’ Hof £ne. laces it is invaluable.
<snoiddrop So&p
is guaranteed to be .absolutely pure, A
perfect Soap for cleansing, bleaching, and
perfuming, and for the bath and Toilet.
Made in Three Sizes.
ALSTON SOAP & CANDLE Co. Ltd.
SOLE MAKERS, ROZELLE.N.S.W.
-rr>
If
ft
L:-'
■K
m
17
Igff
■1 -y J.
m.
m
h
SNOWDROP SOAP^
'i
&
n


urn
sa
■
m
ii
m
APco
l
The Brains of Your Car
The Timer has often been called the brains of the auto-
mobile, and in developing this ingeniously-fashioned device,
the Apco Manufacturing Co. have kept in mind the fact
that perfection in every detail, with simplicity in design and
working was essential, hence the "APCO” design of Timer.
Besides being the only renewable Timer on the market, the
"APCO” gives a quicker and hotter spark than usual, and
as a result an easier start is obtained, with more power and
speed Again, longer life is added to the platinum points ,
more miles per gallon of petrol, fewer short-circuits , and
freedom from all those troubles that beset ordinary timers are
the outstanding features of the "APCO” TIMER
Constructed on simple lmes, the
shell is heavy pressed steel, with
a single-piece steel advance arm
rivetted on. The contacts are
simply clock steel—easily renew-
able for a few pence—and the
insulation is particularly high-
grade bone fibre The roller
runs in a bushing between two
thrust washers these are all
hardened steel—m a die casting.
This practically eliminates wear.
It has been found by test that
less than one in one thousand
of the "APCO” TIMERS ever
develop spring trouble, and then
the spring is so easily renewed.
DISTRIBUTING AGENTS FOR "APCO”
NS W UNION ACCESSORY CO.
[F G. Brown] 465 Pitt St Sydney, (near Hotel Sydney)
VICTORIA:
J. J. MEYER
Elizabeth St., MELBOURNE
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
CORNELL’S LTD
ADELAIDE
FACTORY REPRESENTATIVES
THOMPSON, MEGGITT & CO LTD
"DAILY TELEGRAPH” BUILDINGS SYDNEY
. TRADE _
ApcO
' MARK
METAL
OIL GAUGE
m
, GLASS OIL JGAUGE
The Convenience of an Office.
AN office is a convenient thing to have.
My friends have told me so repeat-
edly. They would sit down in my
best chairs to tell me.
‘‘Nice and handy to have an office like
this, Hamer,” they would say. “Got any of
those cigars you had last week? They
weren’t at all bad. Ah, thanks! Suppose
you haven’t filled up the whisky bottle
again? Oh, well, never mind; you’ll be able
to take us out for a drink by and bye.
Would you mind our writing a letter here?”
Sometimes they left polite intervals be-
tween their remarks, as if they were con-
sidering what next to say; but more often
they reeled the whole lot off at once. The
final request was most excellent, since there
was only one table in the place at which a
letter could be written, and this gave me an
opportunity of taking a rest-cure while my
friends wrote.
They used to call upon me every day to
see how I was getting on. They were very
nice about it. Each of them said, “I hope
I won’t be disturbing you?” before taking a
ehair; and on the rare occasions on which I
had the courage to hint that I desired to be
busy they said “Don’t let us disturb you,
thpn,” before plunging into a conversation
about the war or the races. Frequently I
would take them out for a drink with the
idea of losing them, but these excursions
only seemed to make my office more popular.
My wife did not altogether approve of the
office, but she found it convenient, too. She
used to make appointments to meet her
friends there; and—have you noticed how
lax most women are about keeping appoint-
ments? —sometimes it was very pleasant.
My wife has some quite nice friends. At
tunes also she found it convenient, when the
children were with her, to leave them at the
office. They regarded it as a sort of holiday.
It was rather hard on the pens, and my
papers got a good deal astray; but they
enjoyed themselves.
I had intended it as a place where I would
retire when I happened to be in town and
felt the desire or the necessity to do some
work. It was not really necessary for me to
be in town every day, or even every other
day; but I got into the habit of making it
every day. It sounded so businesslike to
set oil for the office” daily. It is mar-
vellous how many of us get into the habit
of living by ear, so to speak. Besides, if I
did not turn up my friends would remark
that I was “not at the office yesterday” in
such a hurt way that I felt it was not plav-
mg the game to them to be absent. Smith
especially would, mention that he had called
three, times, waiting half an hour on each
occasion, until I had a guilty sense of wast-
ing Smith’s time —which, he assures me, is
valuable.
. Leaving home, I had the whole programme
in my mind. Reaching the office at nine, I
should have all my correspondence and my
routine work for the journals for which I
worked finished by half-past ten. The arti-
cles on “Artichokes and Anarchy” for the
Blowfly and “More Room for Mushrooms”
for the Banner, which had been projected
for three weeks, and three sets of topical
verses, of which I had the ideas for some
days, would take me till one. Then I would
lunch. At one-thirty I would be back again
with a whole afternoon ahead of me for any
work that suggested itself; and I would cer-
tainly be able to do at least three chapters
of the novel I had been considering for a
long time. In fact, snatching another half-
hour for dinner, I would probably remain
in my office that night, making the most of
a good start.
Every morning I saw a good day’s work
spreading before me, with resulting pro-
sperity in the future; but nearly every
morning I met Jones on the way to town.
Jones’s peculiarity is that he believes in hav-
ing a drink in the morning—it bucks a man
up for the day’s business, he contends, and
not liking to drink by himself he had got
into the habit of depending upon me. More-
over, JoneS has no objection to having more
than one drink. It is a simpler matter to have
the drink than argue the point; but the delay
used to prevent my getting to the office be-
fore 10, by which time Smith and Brown, or
both, would be waiting outside, anxious
about letters they had caused to be addressed
there, and eager to suggest that I ought to
do some work on the lines of inspirations
they had received from the morning’s news.
When they left they would promise faith-
fully to look me up again during the day;
and just as I was getting down to work
others would arrive, explaining that they
had delayed until after 11 o’clock, knowing
the value of the early hours of the day, in
order to give me a chance of getting through
my -work. The last of them might have been
gone five minutes before. Tompkins arrived
to tell me that it was time I gave up and
had some lunch. After lunch much the same
sort of thing would occur, with the addition
of visits from friends of my wife, who
wanted to know if by any chance Mrs.
Hamer -would be in town during the after-
noon ; and about four o’clock Mrs. Hamer
would herself arrive and proclaim that it
was afternoon-tea time.
About five o’clock I would get down to the
day’s work, and be progressing fairly well,
when —“Oh, I say, old chap, don’t you think
it’s time you chucked it?” Robinson would
remark genially from the doorway. “It’s no
use breaking yourself up! Come and have
a drink before you go home.”
Usually I went home and did the work
with which the day was to have started, and
got no further. Still it was a very pleasant
existence while I could afford it: and after I
had come to the conclusion that I couldn’t,
I hated to give it up altogether. I have
always been careful of other people’s feel-
ings ; and the mental picture of Jones, Smith.
Brown. Tompkins, Robinson and others
grouped broodingly around my.office, waiting
for me to come in and open it touched my
heart. So I broke it to them as gently as I
could. Before giving up the place I tacked
this card on my door:
Away for a Few Days.
At Home.
Doing Some Work.
HAMER.


Yes! Meggitt Limited’s Australian-made Linseed Oil is the Best.
MEGGtTT C
HMn EO
MEC.MH
LIMITED
a
css
yT'/
The rigid scientific, mechanical and physical control exercised in each process of manufacture of Meggitt
Limited’s Linseed Oil is partly attributable to the increasing popularity of Meggitt Limited’s product.
Each department of manufacture is conducted by expert Australian workmen at Parramatta.
The requirements of Australian Linseed Oil consumers and the exigencies of Australian climatic conditions
nfluence our methods of manufacture.
Not one gallon of our Oil is despatched unless it conforms with our established set of specifications.
It is always uniform in quality, being thoroughly matured, perfectly clear, and produces durable and
lasting finish.
Insist on Meg'g'itt Limited’s Linseed Oil,
and Maintain Australian Industry.
CATALOGUE NO. 2 MAILED FREE.
Full particulars from Agents: Messrs. R. S. Exton & Co., Queen Street, Brisbane; Messrs. Harrisons, Ramsay Etc!., 66G Bourke Street, Melbourne;
Messrs. Clarkson Ltd., Rundle Street, Adelaide; Messrs. W. Adams & Co., King Street, Perth; Messrs. F. W. Heritage & Co., Launceston and
Hobart; or
M EGGITT LTD.
WORKS: PARRAMATTA.
(The Pioneer Linseed Oil and Linseed Oil Meal
Manufacturers of Australia),
26 King' Street, SYDNEY
MtGGITTS
yNSEEDMIfq
w
The Boy on the Bag
guarantees quality(


K A
ZM
SUNSHINE
The Lightest Draught Harvester
The Machine with the Sharp Spiral Beaters.
Takes off the Heads Like a Lawn Mower.
Wheat Growing Pays—with a Sunshine.
SUNSHINE
THE ENGINE FOR THE FARM
Sturdier, Better Finished, Simpler.
Lowest First Cost. Lowest Fuel Cost.
The Farm-hand or the Boy can run it.
3,5, 7 and 10 h.p. Stationary or Portable.
Catalogue B, sent post free, describes Sunshine Harvesters, Engines and Implements.
mm
H. V. McKAY Sunshine Harvester Works-Sunshine
Stanley Street, South Brisbane.
27-39 George Street West, Sydney.
Corner Collins and Spencer Streets, Melbourne.
Corner York and St. John Streets, Launceston.
56 North Terrace, Adelaide.
36 Pier Street, Perth.
Dennys, Lascelles, Ltd. (Geelong),
wool-brokers and salesmen of pastoral and
agricultural products (the co. started with a
deficit of £51.765, representing goodwill
£50,000 and preliminary exes.) :
June, Profits. Dividends. To Reserves. Deficit.
1913 .. £9,863 7 p.c. = £10,500 £52,402
1914 .. 14,470 7 „ „ 10,500 £3970 48,432
1915 . . 7,065 7 „ „ 10,500 51,867
1916 .. 11,500 7 ~ „ 10,500 1000 50,867
1917 . . 14,995 7 „ „ 10,500 4495 46,372
1918 . . 14,479 7 „ „ 10,500 3979 42,393
1919 .. 17,146 7 „ „ 10,500 6646 35,747
This business had its beginnings away back
in the ’fifties, and no firm had a better
footing in the Vic. western district. Its
interests had expanded to such an extent
that seven years ago veteran E. 11. Las-
celles, since dead, decided to hand the organi-
sation over to a public co. And when he
invited many of the old customers into the
concern he backed his faith in the prospects
by guaranteeing a 7 p.c. div. during the
first five years, and took payment for good-
will entirely in scrip. But the new co. had
misfortune from the beginning; the district
out of which the concern was making its
living experienced one of the worst droughts
in its history. So whereas profits for the final
six years of the old proprietary were sworn
to have averaged £13,198, the first four years
of the new co. gave an average of only
£10,724. Since then things have looked up
somewhat, for though the co. is handling
smaller clips than it used to the good prices
realised by the wool-growers have built up
commission earnings. Gross profits have
recovered in this way :
1914. . £34,769 I 1916.. £30,433 I 1918.. £43,192
1915.. 25,716 ] 1917.. 38,658 | 1919.. 48,351
Expenses have grown, too; but the margin
left for shareholders has improved consider-
ably on the earlier years. Current profits
—the best so far disclosed—were equal to
nearly 11$ p.c. of paid capital, and since
only 7 p.c. is being distributed a substantial
addition has been made to reserves. So far
the management has reduced its 1913 deficit
by £16,655, but still has £35,747 to make
good before the whole of the capital
(£150,000) is represented by tangible assets.
Since the close of its first year the balance-
sheet figures have moved this way :
1913. 1919.
Liabilities.. .. ..£113,076 £61,741
Property, plant, etc. . . 76,300 77,423
Stock 4,062 1,498
Book debts . . .. 133,625 96,323
Cash and sundries .. 1,937 5,999
Present conditions are, of course, abnormal;
but despite Government operations the
financial strain on the co. is now consider-
ably less than it was six years ago. Mean-
time it has also been able to improve its
position by increasing the surplus of more
or less liquid assets over liabilities from
£26.548 to £42,079. With a continuance of
good management the future should be all
right, though profits will always vary with
the seasons. The co. has certainly a very
fine connection. Recently it was decided to
extend operations still further, and a live-
stock dept, and a land-sales agency have
been established in connection with the Mel-
bourne office, and this should also help.
* * * *
Queensland Trustees, Ltd. (Brisbane) :
Dividends and Added to Re-
June, Profits. Dividend Tax. Reserves, serves.
1907. . £3060 8 p.c. = £2121 £939 £6,834
1908.. 3631 9 „ „ 2386 1245 8,079
1909.. 2712 8 ~ „ 2121 591 8,670
1910.. 2923 8 „ „ 2121 802 9,472
1911.. 3743 9 „ „ 2386 1357 10,829
1912.. 4193 10 ~ „ 2651 1542 12,371
1913.. 5496 15 „ „ 3977 1519 13,890
1914.. 5131 10 „ ~ 2651 2480 16,370
Written off, £5OO . . 15,870
1915.. 4746 10 p.c. = 2651 2095 17,965
1916.. 3691 10 „ „ 2651 1040 19,005
1917.. 4829 10 „ „ 2651 2178 21,183
Transferred to capital, £20,200 . . 983
1918.. 5044 7 p.c. = 3341 1703 2,686
1919.. 5799 9 „ „ 4295 ) - 0 , o 1<)0
Voted to Provident Fund, £lOOO )
Over three years ago a Public Curator came
into the field; but at Dec. 31 last he was
administering, apart from intestate estates,
etc., only £95,604 of wills and trusts, though
he had gathered in 541 S wills of persons still
living. So far, the Government office has
not cut into the Queensland Trustees’ busi-
ness ; in fact, the growth of value of estates
administered by the co. has been greater
during the past three years than in previous
triennial periods:—
1910.. £2,135,244 | 1916.. £3,617,393
1913.. 2,874,938 | 1919.. 4,390,463
Quite likely, for some years to come, the
operations of the Government office will help
rather than hinder the co., since the Public
Curator is helping to dispel faith in the old
friend-of-the-family type of trustee. Mil-
lions are still under the control of more
or less reliable executors with whom such
work is merely a side-line. But very few,
if any, of the most solid private trustees
can offer anything like the advantages of
the concerns which make the caretaking
of dead men’s shoes their special business.
If the casual trustee were asked to put
up a bond to guarantee his good behavior
he would be insulted. But the cos. do that
as a matter of course; for instance, the
Queensland Trustees, Ltd., has £48,640 of
funds to protect clients against fraud or
carelessness on the part of its employees,
and shareholders are liable for £156.550
more if the worst should happen. Further,
it is the right of the private trustee to
continue his administration of an estate
though he be for one reason or another quite
incapable of doing it justice. On the other
hand, because of competition, and because
their own living is at stake, cos. lui'Ve to
give evidence of continuous efficient manage-
ment. At least once a year they must pro-
duce audited accounts. But the casual trustee
is under no obligation to disclose the sta-
bility or otherwise of his finances. There
is no guarantee that he will not some day
develop a craving for chorus girls, ponies
or other luxuries and get his trusts mixed
with his pocket money.
Later on. perhaps, the Public Curator
may affect the Queensland Trustees, for the
Government office has not to earn divs. for
shareholders, and may, with efficient manage-
ment, he able to attract business bj
cutting rates. Even then there would, no
doubt, be many people who would
leave their affairs in the hands ot the haid-
headed business men who generally con-
stitute trustee eo. Boards. Not that there
is anything extortionate aboiit_ present
ehartres. Take the case of a £o0(X) estate,
the whole of which has to be realised, a\ ei-
ages 4 n.e. p.a. income, and is administered
for 15 years. The Queensland Trustees co.
charges p.c. on capital value and —2
p.c. p.a. for collecting income; and over
the 15 vears the co. thus gets £2OO out ot
the estate. This charge works out at only
ss. 4d. p.c. p.a., a very moderate price to
pay for safe custody and efficient handling.
Funds are well invested; £29,935 is in
premises, and apart* from £2052 of secured
loans, investments and sundry creditors, all
the remaining assets (£22,246) are in public
securities and cash. Considering the security
for their capital—and not overlooking the
bonus share issue of a year ago—the present
9 n.c. dividend is very sweet for shareholders.
* * * #
Goulburn Gas Co. (Goulburn, N.S.W.) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1911.. £B5l 15 p.c. = £750 £lOl £11,287
June, 1912.. 1174 15 „ „ 750 424 11,711
Reserves disappeared (apparently
distributed), £7982. . •• 3,729
Dec., 1912.. 509 8 p.c. = 400 109 3,838
June, 1913.. 734 8 „ „ 400 334 4,172
Dec., 1913.. 754 8 „ „ 400 354 4,526
June, 1914.. 1139 8 „ „ 400 739 5,265
Dec., 1914.. 611 8 „ „ 400 211 5,476
June, 1915.. 627 8 ~ ~ 400 227 5,703
Dec., 1915.. 763 8 ~ .. 400 363 6,066
June, 1916.. 551 8 „ „ 400 151 6,217
Dec., 1916.. 1003 8 „ „ 400 603 6,820
June, 1917.. 486 8 „ ~ 400 86 6,906
Dec., 1917.. 582 8 „ „ 400 182 7,088
Written off renewals reserve, £125 6,903
June, 1918.. 402 8 p.c. = 400 2 6,905
Dec., 1918.. 429 8 „ „ 400 29 6,994
June, 1919.. 488 8 „ „ 400 88 7,082
Profits and reserves shown above include
sums set aside for plant renewal. During
the past half £B5 has been added to this
account, and if this is a necessary allow-
ance to make in order to replace plant, dis-
closed net profits were just sufficient to meet
the 8 p.c. div. Of the reserves of £7082,
plant-renewal account holds £4167. Assum-
ing that the whole of this amount will be
called for to nrovide for replacements, etc.,
then since 1912 general reserves have been
built up by only £2128 after paying a con-
sistent 8 p.c. div. During recent terms
the margin of profit has been very slender.
In the past the co. may have done a little
better than its balance-sheets showed, for
depreciation is lumped with exes, and some-
thing more than necessary may have been
clipped in the good years. Prospects have
been dimmed by a municipal electrical enter-
prise. But the co. is in a comfortable posi-
tion. At June 30 liabilities amounted to
only £4ll, and on the other side there was
£5820 of more or less liquid assets.
# * * *
“Monyah”: “Cassio” (B. 7/8/T9) thinks
that the Australian Customs should charge
duty on foreign moneys converted at the
actual rate of exchange, instead of on the
mint par-value as is the practice. But such
a system cuts both ways. Certainly more
revenue would accrue when the exchange was
above par, but it would be off-set by the
loss when below par. Recently the Italian
lyra was down to 40 as against the mint
par of 20.23, so that if “Cassio’s” idea were
in force the Department would be losing
duty on over £7 in every 500 lyra. The
Italian exchange is still far below par. and
likely to remain so. French and Belgian
exchanges have also declined; while if the
moneys of the enemy countries and Russia
were converted at ruling rates for Customs
purposes the results would be farcical. The
only country to which the system applies is
China, which has no gold standard, and
importers have to ascertain and work on a
new rate for every importation. The
Customs system of a fixed mint par based on
a gold standard is the most logical, and
merchants would not welcome a system
which varies every time a crowned head has
a cold.
* * * *
Melbourne must be getting very wearied
of its ventures at Laverton and Linden
(W.A.). Fortunes were supposed to be
waiting in the Mary Mac and other shows
near the former place, then the Devon in
the latter locality was talked of as a really
good thing, and later the resurrected Child'e
Harold, situated in the wilderness between
the two fields, was well spoken of. But
the Mary Mac has so far shown nothing
to justify the reports circulated about it or
the expenditure put into it; the Devon has
never crushed up to expectations or given
any promise of dividends; while the Childe
Harold has rolled back into the grave from
which it should never have been raised.
# # * #
Manager Wilkinson, of the Peterkin
mineral leases, on the old Sunny Corner
field (N.5.W.,), reports satisfactory pro-
gress. Experiments carried out on the ground
have demonstrated the practicability of treat-
ing the ore at the mine, and thereby elimina-
ting the high cost of transport to the coast.
One of the old blast-furnaces in use nearly
30 years ago was reconstructed, and from a
parcel of 104 tons put through matte to the
value of £670 was received. Several short
experimental runs made since have given
results equally good; and with modern
smelting appliances which it is intended to
instal even better results may be anticipated.
The present owners have spent nearly three
years in solid development work; a new
tunnel 1000 ft. long has been put in from the
No. 5 level, disclosing a big lode of solid sul-
phide. Large bodies of payable ore are
claimed to be in sight in the upper levels
also. Recent work, moreover, supports the
contention that a lot of “profit” went over
the dump in the early days at the old Sunny
Corner mine; a parcel of slag put through
a battery has given a net return of 14s. 7d.
per ton. Surveyor Thomas estimates that
there are over 900,000 tons in this particular
dump, and assays show the average contents
of silver alone to be 7soz. A plant is now
on the spot awaiting erection with a view to
dealing with this slag.


m
*
WA R.El’s
Pure
Yirgini
CI6A
ha
| r.D.WAR
| RICHMG
5
i&t&cc
Cb
\
\ s' V
\
* \ \ x
* \ t
t.\ O
0,.e. 0
tt-av-r <>
Sbo 4
' / ' LL
('s <=»
. <>nrs
-
T J
<*■
J
£
\\l
W
3
C
/
.N
1
*
%
*
x)
r
i|
V
<>
<=>
SMITH <2i>
PURE
VIRGINIAN
MMffi ITT VIRGITO'A
OBTAINABLE AT SYDNEY-
ALili THE A. A. MARKS’ SHOPS—
-19 Hunter Street (next Hardy Bros.).
116 Pitt Street.
117 Oxford Street.
94 Darlinghurst Road, William Street.
767 George Street.
15 Alfred Street, Circular Quay.
Hotel Sydney Building, Pitt Street.
Messrs. PRIOR BROS.’ SHOPS at
317 George Street.
109 King Street.
3a Elizabeth Street.
H. X. Cooper, 112 King Street.
Civil Co-operative Stores, Pitt Street.
Farmers Ltd., Pitt Street.
F. Fassetter’s, George Street.
David Jones L,td., George Street.
OVER. 100 TOBACCONISTS IN MELBOURNE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: Messrs. Lawrence & Levy, 9 Rundle Sti‘eet, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: Messrs. Morris & Co., Levi Green Buildings, W eilington Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND AGENTS: J. W. Collins & Bickerton Ltd., Edward and Elizabeth Streets, Brisbane.
FACTORY REPRESENTATIVES.
THOMPSON, MEGGITT & CO. LTD., DAILY TELEGRAPH BUILDINGS, SYDNEY; and
MESSRS. BRODERICK & CO. LTD., HARRIS STREET, WELLINGTON, N.Z. j


Hotel de Luxe.
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
The Healthiest and most Beautiful Spot on
the Harbor. As warm in Winter as the South
of France.
Recommended by the Minister for Health and
the Medical Faculty. Finest Cuisine. Hot
and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Beautiful Beaches,
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths,
Fishing.
Tariff, from 12/6 per day, or
£3/10/- per week.
Tels.: Y3OOl, 3002.
Apply Manager.
Fencing Wire
GALVANISED—
No. 8 Gauge, £JQ
per ton.
No. 10 Gauge, £32
per ton.
MoEWAN’S,
Melbourne’s Busiest Hardware Store,
119-125 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
gGeorge IV
WHISKY
11
THE TOP NOTCH SCOTCH
A SAFE PROTECTOR
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Myall - ’ ; I’m here to endorse the claim
that roast kid is a much more succulent and dainty
dish than lamb. The average Australian appears
to be prejudiced against everything that is easily
produced on the premises. If kid-flesh was canned
in some remote corner of the globe, and carried to
our seaports in foreign holds, it would soon find a
place on the menu at swell restaurants, and become
a highly-prized food. At many Outback shanties
and mail-coach changes goat is served to the unsus-
pecting traveller as mutton, and it is not uncommon
to hear travellers after a meal remark on the
palatable flavor and tenderness of the “mutton.”
* * * *
“Red Lily Dick”: “Yarrum” (B. 31/7/’l9)
asks why the brumby full of grass can tire the
corn-fed horse. Answer, because the corn-fed horse
is carrying a two-stone stock saddle with a man on
it; the brumby has only his frame to shift. I was
running brumbies on Mt. Marlow, Barcoo (Q.), in
partnership with an old hand. We would never
try to run the wild fellows from the word “go,” but
after finding the mob would give them a start and
then track them up and see where they went. We
did this every day for perhaps a fortnight. Brumbies
always run the same way from the same place, have
their regular beats and go in a circle. When we
knew their play we would give them a good fright,
then trot across about eight miles and wait. By
and bye they would come loping along after doing
perhaps 16 miles, and we would hop in with
fresh horses. We used to starve them sometimes
for water, and I have known them to stay 16 days
without a drink before they would come into the
yard, which was the only way they could get to the
life-saver. I’ve seen the prettiest horse that ever
looked through a bridle drop dead when he got the
first mouthful. They are very scientific with their
feet. I’ve heard them kicking and squealing in the
yard all night, and you would not think there would
be a sound-legged horse left among them; but when
daylight came you would have a job to find a mark
on one.
*** . *
“Luluai”: A couple of Abo. writers were
recently interested in painted skulls found upon the
islands of Torres Straits. On the Sepik River, late
German New Guinea territory, there are to be
obtained skulls not only painted but highly deco-
rated. I have a 'weird and .unique collection before
me. Each has been carefully moulded with clay
until life-like in appearance. A sago attachment
takes the place of the original hair, and cowrie
shells have been fitted to the eye-sockets. The
Kanakas trade them for knives and tomahawks.
“Gouger”: Up in Far North Bananaland
the dingoes have lately been killing cattlemen’s
dogs. An ordinary strong cattle-dog is more than
a match for the average dingo, so the outlaws have
developed strategy. A lone
dingo will sneak near to a
stockman’s hut, to be straight-
way chased by the four-footed
guardian. The dingo, tail
low, go£s for the horizon.
After a short chase the dog
stops, growls fearful things
as to what he would do to
the cold-footer if only he
would stop anil fight, and
then retires. But before he
has gone far a derisive howl
strikes him. Instantly turn-
ing, he sees the dingo on bis
haunches, in the act of
launching another insulting
howl. Straightway the dog
flies towards the insulter. The
dingo turns and bolts again.
The dog presses on hard. It
seems to him that the
stranger is getting a bit
winded. What he doesn’t
know is that the fleetest
savage in the pack is luring
him on. After a hard run
the dog gives in, panting a
little. H e growls and trots
slowly towards home. In-
stantly another derisive howl
sounds in his ear. The dog
keeps isttaight on homeward.
Again comes the howl, this
time with a direct challenge., Instantly the good
dog charges. The dingo races, howling dolefully
towards the banks of a creek. Suddenly, on the
verge, the dog is gripped and the two animals roll
Se W rest Tn the *** * ‘Wrapping jaws do
the rest These are strenuous days for dogs, men, etc.
“Wart” : These cold nights in Tassy there
are nearly always two or three ghost-moths banging
at the window as soon as the lamps are lit big
grey, feathery chaps, three to four inches long, with
eyes that glow like carbuncles in the light. These
are the creatures which do so much damage to the
wattle-trees. They lay their eggs on the baric and
when the caterpillars hatch out they start to bore
downwards. For two to three years they eat the
heart out of the wattle-tree, and by that time they
are as thick as your finger, three or four inches
long, and drive a tunnel like an auger hole. These
are the grubs that liinghi was so fond of.
A PROTEST.
THE PRESIDENT-ELECT OF THE AMALGAMATED SOCIETY OF DOMAIN RANGERS : “I tell
yer, gents, wot with all these strikes and importations our perfession's getting
overcrowded. We must strike, sirs. We’ll go ter work!”
“Azac”: Economise by making your own
tarpaulins. The material should be hemp canvas
or cotton duck, not lighter than IGoz. See that all
seams are double-stitched, and not less than eight
stitches to the inch; the holes for tie-ropes to be
brass eyelets or galvanised-iron rings sewn in. Pure
boiled linseed-oil, with a little paste-driers added,
will make a thoroughly waterproof sheet. If black
dressing is required, add vegetable-black to the oil
and driers; if yellow, add yellow ochre; and if
brown, add indian red and a little vegetable-black.
If time is no object in drying, add a little fish-oil.
This will make the tarpaulin very soft and pliable
and will increase its durability. Careful application
of the dressing is essential to the production of a
good tarpaulin. The sheet to be dressed should be
thoroughly stretched on an even floor while being
treated. Apply the dressing with a rather stiff
brush, in order that it may be well worked into
the seams, and equally distributed over the sheet,
so that none of it remains on the surface in patches.
Finish one side and let it dry before coating the
other side; then hang up to dry again. When
the sheet is taken down the first side coated should
be given a second dose. When the sheet is drying it
should i e exposed to free currents of air—dry air
for preference—but the sun's rays must be excluded.
The tarpaulin should be hung up to “season” after
being subjected to the process.
“Double M.”: If “Jobber” (B. 7/8/’l9)
wants ’possum-bats, let him go to the Western Tiers
of Tasmania and get a bagful. Some of the very
best reside near Ellenthorpe Hall, Ross. Those I
have seen favor the ’possum in habits but prefer
puss in looks. The fur-hair and ’possum-tail give
the show away. Youngsters have no objection to
civilisation, and sign on for life in a good home.
* * 1 * *
“Te Whare”: Re the death’s-head moth,
which I, amongst others, placed among the Aus-
tralian lepidoptera. Froggatt, who speaks with
authority, says the real article is not. found in Aus-
tralia. The small moth which tricked me is about
an inch long or. a little less, and, on a ground of
cream-color, shows a skull and cross-bones on its
forehead. Have found this moth only once, in an
old shanty near the sea on the N. S. Wales South
Coast. The European death’s-head is a compara-
tively large moth. Strange that (according to Tom
Ward—“ Rambles of an Australian Naturalist”)
several European butterflies have surreptitiously in-
troduced themselves to Australia, the common pea-
cock butterfly amongst others. The eggs may have
been deposited on straw used in packing goods, and
hatched out after arrival.
* * * *
“E.S.S.”: Many of Australia’s most ex-
cellent-eating birds are disappearing from settled
districts, yet country dwellers could have any of
them about the homesteads as handy as domestic
fowls with very little care. The magpie-goose,
Cape Barron goose, gnaroo, nearly all the wild
ducks and many other birds that can be hand-fed
deserve a place in the poultry yard. The simple
way to establish them is to get the eggs and hatch
them out under a hen or duck. Small birds like
quail and grass parrots have to be captured young,
and the stud commenced in a grassy run enclosed
with wire-netting. Even the wonga-pigeon soon
adapts itself to homestead surroundings, especially
where there is a large garden and plenty of trees.
In such conditions the brush-turkey and the mallee-
fowl will also make themselves at home.
“Bootawa”: Whilst clearing some land on
the Manning River (N.S.W.) I came upon what
was left of a very large abo. camp which must have
existed long before the white man arrived with flint
or matches. Amongst the collection of stone axes
was a large round-topped stone with a hole
Sin. w'ide by 2in. deep drilled in the top, and lying
alongside were two stones about 6in. long, flat on
one side and round on the other sides, with points
worked down to suit the hole in the large stone.
The flat-sided flints were the “twirling” stones.
When Binghi wanted to make a fire he placed some
dry bark in the hole in the large stone and
then rapidly spun the flat-sided stone between liis
hands till he produced fire. Amongst the stone
axes was one of the largest I have seen—it
must have been used by a Goliath of the tribe. A
very small stone axe, evidently a toy, was also in
the collection. I am using the fire-stone and
“twirlers” in preference to imported matches.
* * * *
“FY7”: When I was a kid on the Upper
Barcoo the queer little bilby was common, but he
disappeared as the country was stocked up. His
shyness—the bilby is a night roamer, living in deep
burrows during- the day—probably accounts for the
fact that he is seldom seen. He is a bit bigger
than the ordinary kangaroo-rat of the Western
Plains, heavier built all over, with a thick, heavy
head. The tail is shorter than the rat’s, almost
bare of hair, and comes to a stumpy instead of a
tapering end. The fur is ocarse—a dark brown
with strong hairs through it. Forearm, claws and
THE RICOCHET.
ANTONIO: “ What for you go so crook,
Bassanio ?”
BASSANIO: “ Last week I give da customer
da bad bob in hers change, an jes' note
he give me it back for da teep.”
“hands” are much stronger and heavier than the
lats, due to Bilby’s digging habits. As I knew him
he made his big, deeply-dug warrens, not on the river
fiats, as “Kunasarta” stated in a recent Bulletin,
but on timbered ridges where the soil was red,
loamy and fairly hard. There would be a hundred
burrows in the average warren. I had a fox-terrier
who went down the burrows and bolted the inmates
He ne\ er lost himself, though sometimes he would
be down for hours. An old fishing-net was cut up
in handy sizes, with a cord running through the
outer meshes, and this was placed over likely holes,
the cord being tied to a stout peg. The bilby,'
bolting from the dog, would pocket himself in the
net. They were stupid, uninteresting pets—not like
the kangaroo-rat, which is a chaining chum.
(Continued on page 26. )
THE CLACKING TONGUE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The clacking- tongue is unlike gold—-
’Tis easy to get, and hard to hold ;
And she who owns it seldom tries,
But vaunts its victories, d her eyes!
It puts man's happiness to rout;
It wears, but never itself wears out;
It makes a hell of the nuptial bed,
And, though liars say the Devil’s dead,
Devil it is. Full many a lord
Has sprung from his couch and seized his sword,
lias fled in haste from its wordy flood,
To drench the world in a sea of blood.
It wakens anger, and causes rue;
War-lord and bond-slave feel.it too;
And guilty wretches, on gallows hung,
Oft owe their end to the clacking- tongue.
The bloom from the fresh young soul it rubs ;
It empties pockets, and tills the pubs.
It gives the tyrant his hardened heart;
And curs the slave to his craven part.
It gibed old Adam to action mean.
Perchance he guessed the fruit was green
'That lured Eye’s curious soul ; but It
Called Adam “Coward!” And Adam bit.
And then it clicked through weary years—
While mingled were Adam’s sweat and tears —
Of all she suffered for Adam's sin,
And how his acts brought the bailiffs in!
Ulysses (wise old bloke) got blown
Out of the limits of countries known,
When the old excuse of war was o’er,
So dodged the clacking tongue once more.
Returning to find his wife unfled,
lie cursed her lovers and slew them dead.
The yarns we learned when our heads were young
Show his respect for the clacking tongue!
But for the tongue, with its ceaseless clack,,
The world would walk on a saner track.
Murder would end, all slaughter cease;
For men seek war for the sake of peace.
Man to man would be fair and kind ;
But he has to struggle, to screw and grind
Its merciless owner’s soul to ple;se,
To buy from the clacking tongue some ease.
So slaves he drives to sea and mine
For tawdry gauds she reckons fine;
She tears the skins from beasts and seals;
Their feathers from slaughtered birds he steals.
AT SEA.
MUDDLED PARTY: “Hi! Yer whisky’s rot-
ten, an’ yer can tell the old-man ter pull
tip at th’ first pub!”
He fells his brother that he may stand
As something higher within the land,
Merely to please some lovely shrew
Who likes to be in the public view.
Murder and thieving—all the sins
Man tries, in a hope that never wins.
Each bribe’s new spell is swiftly gone,
And th’ clacking tongue-still whips him on!
And then to get from that tongue a rest
He lauds her virtue —a cynic jest—-
Though from her no good deed lias come!
The sole good woman was one born dumb!
If P. Pawnticket here hides his name,
It is not his statements that cause him Sham \
If only our brides would die when young
We might be rid of the clacking tongue.
N.S.W.
PERCY PAWNTICKET.


PALING’S PIANOS
and PLAYER PIANOS.
i ‘lt is better to be sure than
sorry. Buy your new piano
or player piano at Paling’s,
and you can make sure of
getting satisfaction.’ ’
Every instrument sold by
us carries our well-known
guarantee.
We are experts with over
65 years’ experience. Just
think of this vast experience
and ask yourself, “Can I
afford to do without it?”
ft
......
MB
i|H|
mm
~ ■.
81
EASY TERMS IF DESIRED.
Old Pianos taken In exchange at their utmost honest valuation.
We sell Pianos. Player Pianos. Organs, Violins,
Banjos, Cornets, Flutes, Harps, Gramophones,
Phonographs, and Everything Musical from a
Violin String to a Full Set of Band Instruments.
Catalogues Free for Asking.
We have a magnificent stock
of Pianos and Player Pianos.
Delightfully-toned instru-
ments selected by our ex-
perts specially for use in the
Australian climate.
Why not call to-day and
inspect them?
Catalogues and particu-
lars are free. Please write
for them to-night.
W. H. PALING CO. LTD.
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at Brisbane* Newcastle, Toowoomba and Lismore.
Stewart Y-Ray Searchlight.
Not an ordinary spotlight.
Price 42/6.
Stewart Vacuum Petrol Feed.
Standard equipment on 85
per cent, of all cars manu-
factured.
Price 75/-
Stewart No-Glare Lens.
Makes night driving safe.
Price 15/- pair.
CAR OWNERS!
If you desire fullest measure of service and satisfaction from your car, it is essential
that you have it Stewart-equipped!
Motorists the world over who have installed
K^t&WWlb
MOTOR NECESSITIES
have agreed that
STEWART PRODUCTS ARE MORE THAN ACCESSORIES
—THEY ARE MOTOR NECESSITIES.
Every Stewart Product is a result of endless scientific research, of skilled workmanship and
of progressive and up-to-date methods, and it never fails to answer the purpose for which
it is intended. Motorists not only EXPECT better service from a Stewart Product, but they
GET it, and that is why the Stewart are the world’s most popular Motor Necessities,
See that Your Car is Equipped Throughout with Stewart Products.
They can be Obtained Through All Distributors of Motor
Accessories, Stores and Garages.
COOPER ENGINEERING CO. LTD.,
Stewart Hand-operated W-Signal.
Produces a clear, penetrating
note at the slightest touch of the
plunger.
Price 30/-
134 Sussex Street, SYDNEY.
(Manufacturers and Distributors of the famous
Cooper=Stewart Products.)'
Stewart motor-driven W-Signal.
Opens the way through traffic.
Price £2/17/6.
v
H ll O □ B- E E 0
Stewart Speedometer.
The unanimous choice of 95
per cent, of car manufac- ‘
turers.
Price from £3/5/- to £4 /*'s/„
Stewart Spark Plug-.
Never fails in service.
Price 4/6.
Stewart Autoguard.
Saves radiators, mudguards,
headlights, etc.
Price, Ford Model, 75/-
Other Models, 85/-


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE-
-129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
ABSOLUTELY PURE AND SOLUBLE,
flanufactured in Australia from the finest selected Beans.
41
99
Obtainable all Leading Grocers throughout the Commonwealth and N.Z.
Wholesale only from McINTYRE BROS., Sole Proprietors, Melbourne, Vic.
Agents:
Mr. J. P. WILSON, Brisbane.
Mr. DAVID BLASHKI, Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Messrs.
Mr. W.
MADDOX & LAWRENCE, PERTH.
R. LANGSFORD, ADELAIDE.
[2
Llane : Old Leather Whiskers told the
yarn. He set a long rope across the river. Then lie
punned out and tied over TOO fishing-hooks on short
stlings to it, each hook being baited with a young
frog. Next morning there was a duck on each hook,
i. eat ho Whiskers untied the rope and proceeded to
pull the collection in. This frightened the ducks
and they rose, the rope looping around the old liar's
legs and carrying him skyward. The birds flew
towards Hav, and the fowler’s position was very
unpleasant until an idea struck him. He reached
foi a duck and broke its neck ; then he climbed to
another, and so on, until near Hay the load became
too heavy for those left alive, and they gradually
came lower until h e lobbed in the main street near
the Commercial. He sold the lot for 3s. a pair.
“Agricola”: Some years ago, at the in-
stigation of the cookies from the hilly country above
ruimit and Adelong (N.S.W.), the Gundagai Pas-
tures Protection Board offered a half-crown for wom-
bats. Next scalp day the agent at Batlow had the
scalps of nearly 800 laid at his feet, and had to wire
for financial reinforcements. A similar rush occurred
in other parts of the district and the Board found
that it had been smitten to the extent of £5OO.
It withdrew the bonus with great energy, and spent
the rest of the year gazing sadly at the hole in
its stocking. The wombats still roam over hill and
valley, doing very little harm after all, but the
average cocky loathes to see any animal roaming,
excepting those which return him a profit.
* * * .
“Eddyson" : Hoyle had served me with my
bacon and biscuits, and was inquiring about our
prospects on the Hound, when the slatternly man
with only one ear put his head in at the store door
and said: “Garrt, whatyer want dealin’ with a dirty
scamp like Hoyle fer?” I had seen the slatternly
man before on my weekly trips to Bee Creek, always
hanging about Hoyle’s grocery, and every time he
had put his head in at the door to make disparaging
remarks about Hoyle, and on no occasion had the
grocer protested. “What’s the matter with him?”
1 asked. “Whose lunatic is he?” Hoyle spread
himself on his counter, with a bush tradesman’s
delight in the prospect of a long talk. “That fel-
ler’s Allison,” lie said. “There was Dutchie and
Harry Carte and Allison, but Allison was the on’y
one that come back. This is a matter of seven year
ago last March. They had a gold-mine along the
Hound. At least they had a hole in the hill. They
were after leaders. They got leaders all right, but
they wasn’t rich enough to keep a duck in chewin’-
tobacco, and all the time I was standin’ by the
three. Those days I had great faith in the Hound,
and lost a bit of money, I tell you, keepin’ one party
or another in grub. They’d hang on as long as I’d
stand ’em for their grub, and then they’d take the
(rack to Bairnsdale. That was what happened with
Allison, Dutchie and Carte till their bill was so
long it made a afternoon’s pleasant readin’. Then
one day in hops Tommy the teamster with a tale
of havin’ met Dutchie and Carte and Allison 12 mile
down the track, earryin’ all they could. They gave
Tommy a letter for me, statin' that their mine was
the property of George Hoyle, grocer, in considera-
FIRST THINGS FIRST.
THE VISITOR: “Money, or your life!”
HIS HOST: “Spare der monish, mine
friendt.”
tion of what he had done for the herein before-
mentioned owners. The document further said I was
to proceed to the mine and take full payment in
gold to whatever amount I pleased, and God help
me. It was meant comic, of course, but next Sun-
day I went up to have a look at my property,
flunkin' they might have left some tools. There
was a pick or two and a shovel, but worn to the
butts. ’Owever, I took the pick and went potterin’
in the cut. In half an hour I had in my hand a
flat slip of clean gold as big : as a pancake. There
was lloz. in that. I worked that lovely little
leader for seven weeks, and cleaned up five ’undred
and fourteen pounds. Then it petered out. When
this feller Allison heal’d of my bit o’ luck
he come ’obblin’ back. My bill against Allison,
Dutchie and Carte was £47. Here Allison put his
head in at the door again and said: “Hoyle’s a
dirty thief.” Hoyle nodded towards him. “And
this one,” he said, “is waitin’ for the change.”
DEFINITIONS—ACCORDING TO WEBSTER.
LITTLE ETHEL: “ Mummie, what is a dead letter?”
MUMMIE: “Why, it is a letter that you give your father to post.”
“Barcoo”: My statement that there are
two species of emu in Australia has grave suspicion
cast on it by “Hay” (B. 10/7/’l9) ; yet, apart from
close personal observation and some slight know-
ledge of ornithology, I find that the original asser-
tion is borne out by both the “British Encyclopaedia”
and a standard work on such matters, the “Royal
Natural History.” That there were two species of
the world’s second-largest fowl was first discovered
by natural-historian
Bartlett more than 60
3'ears ago, when he
defined and catalogued
the emu of the west-
ern part of Australia
as Dromaeus irroratus
and declared it dis-
tinct from its eastern
cousin, the common
emu (Dromaeus nova
huttandim). The wes-
tern bird is much the
more genteel in appear-
ance, and to scientists
is known as the spotted
emu. Its overcoat is
barred with white and
dark grey, the feathers
terminating in a black
spot with rufous mar-
gin, whereas the com-
mon or eastern fowl’s
plumage is a uniform
blackish grey with
black tips, having a
broad subterminal ru- ■
fous band. Climatic and other conditions slightly
modify or else intensify the prevailing hue in
feathers; but the characteristics of both fowls’
feathers are too marked to leave any doubt about
a difference. In both species the female is much
the more robust.
Barber : This is what my cobber found
while emptying his underground tank. It is round,
and at first glance resembles a tortoise. It is about
as big over as an ordinary saucer, and shell-backed.
The neck is about 1 jin. long. There are four legs of
the same length, with web feet and a soft-shell belly.
The stranger is very nervous, and at the slightest sound
nothing can be seen but the back shell, which is
pretty well camouflaged as limestone. The man who
found it has never put as much as a frog in his
tank, and the cement sides and bottom are intact.
* * * *
Jim Carew”: Near Buckley’s Crossing,
on the Monaro (N.S.W.), I yesterday shot a full-
sized fox. I started him out of a rabbit
burrow and got him with a shot-gun. This is the
fiist white fox I have heard of on the Monaro since
police-sergeant Roach shot one near Tom Groggin
Creek about 12 years ago.
“F.N.T.”: Even in the worst-regulated
communities it is seldom that a bull ever actually
gets inside a china-shop, but something of the kind
is on the records of a store at Glen Iris (Vic.),
where crockery is one of the lines. The animal
wandered in one day, and in its embarrassment dived
behind the counter, whence it shortly made a bee-
line for the door, tearing the counter out by the
roots and removing two dozen tins of biscuits, two
pairs scales, a quantity of self-raising flour and a
nice line of vegetable-dishes and cups and saucers—
damage which presently added a neat sum to Mr.
Cow’s expense-account for the year:
* * * «
“Gouger”: Among the many marvellous
half-animal half-vegetable growths that flourish in
the sands and corals of the Barrier Reef is a dirty-
green, gelatine-like flower, measuring about a foot in
circumference. The main structure of the plant re-
sembles very thick and much-crinkled cabbage leaves,
which lie nearly flat on the ground. Growing out
from the centre are a large number of slender feelers,
a few inches in length, which slowly sway in the
water, reaching out this way and that, then receding
into themselves again, exactly as a very pliable
piece of rubber does when released. At the end
o. each feeler is a series of serrated edges, which
have a considerable suction-power. Every now and
then one of these feelers recedes completely into the
main body of the plant (whenever the feeler has
sucked in enough food, I suppose). Playing among
these plants are always a number of very small,
gaily-colored fishes, striped in scarlet, blue and
white. On the approach of danger these fish im-
mediately dart in among the feelers of the plants.
he feelers straightway close over them. When the
danger passes the feelers open out, and the fish
glide forth. Generally from two to four fish pat-
ronise each plant. On touching the plant after the
feelers have closed over the fish its tough outer
part immediately reaches upward and closes over
the Give it a kick and the plant draws
' ght J together, somewhat in the shape of a roughly-
together 3 ) i KICk U a ° aln ' The plant draws tighter
sand . e £ lns to disappear down through the
sand. luck it yet again and it disappears.
* * * *
“Steve Hart”: “Where is Outback?” said
Bill, answering a question someone asked him.
“Damned if I know, I seen onfy one bloke who
said he’d been there.” Then thoughtfully he
added, “He only stayed with us an hour or
two and went back again. He was nearly all hair
and whiskers, his clothes was mostly bag and bits
of woolbale, and he stood in greenhide leg coverings
about as high as a strainer post. Near as old as
kgypt, and as dried-up as a publican when your
cheque’s melted. A battered old meat-tin and a bag
swag completed the outfit. Asked where he came
from he waved to the west and said shortly, ‘Out-
back.’ Jack said in answer to his demand for’ water,
‘Don’t you carry a water-bag?’ ‘What in Hell does
a man want with a water-bag inside here?’ he
snapped. Then he grabbed his swag and yelled,
‘Yer all the same, you blanky inside blokes’: and he'
starts off at a run. I don’t know how he done it,
but he went sprawling over a roll of wire-netting
which was balanced on the hilltop. Quicker than
a black fellow would shift a' rum, that netting
grabbed the bloke from .Outback. It coiled around
him in a flash, and started rolling itself and him
down the ridge. There must have been devils in
that netting. We saw it bump 10 feet high, reverse
itself in the air, hook on to a gidgce root and unroll
itself again. We went hell-for-leather after it. We
saw it was secure on the root as we passed, and we
saw it disgorge its load, rolling him 40 yards out
on the plain. Then it came back, 60 miles an hour
and knocked us sprawling. Up we got and there
away out on the plain the old swaggie was still
rolling over and over. With a whir the wire,
looking like an immense sofa-sprii g, shot away and’
left the passenger behind, as naked as Adam, and
full of fight. He demanded his swag, his clothes,
his billy. At each demand he wanted to fight one
of us, then any two, and finally the three of us
and all our gory relations. Jack suddenly cried,
‘Here comes the blanky wire back!’ Sure enough it
was coming like a big spiral spring about 150yds
long and 20ft. high, and gathering speed as it came
before the wind. The old chap didn’t wait for it.
He just streaked into the west. Next day we met
a terrified tribe of blacks who told us they saw a
plurry sandhill chasing a hairy devil into the sunset.
So I suppose ‘Outback’ is there.”
S.A.W. : J.G.” (B. 24/7/T9) is not
right in asserting that the bloodwood has no use
other than to be given over to the firestick In
the Port Stephens (N.S.W.) district and parts of
the South Coast the fishermen use the gum exten-
sively to preserve their fishing nets, especially mesh
nets. The bark is stripped from the trees, cut u>>
very fine and boiled. The nets are then immersed
in the hot mixture. The. best method of gathering
the gum is to tap the trees the same way as for
rubber, but as this is a slow process it is seldom
resorted to. As for the timber, anyone seen a bush-
file go right through bloodwood fencing-posts?
“Norseman”: Talking about the water-
fowl pest. When I was on the Paroo, 119 miles
west of Bourke (N.S.W.), the birds were in hordes.
Their appetite is enormous, and they have a special
liking for new grass. They tear out the roots, and
it is this habit which destroys thousands of ao s of
verdure. One poor Pong had liis garden completely
eaten out. Day and night the destruction went on.
Binghi eats the hen, but skins the body first. The
taste is too “wild” for most whites, though I knew
of a cook on Wanaaring station who was an adept
at preparing the flesh for the table.
# # *
‘11.C.”: The railway now under construc-
tion from Condobolin to Broken Hill will cut a
gap through miles of dense scrub and tap some
valuable areas of the much-discussed cvpress pine.
Near Ivanhoe, some 200 miles from Condobolin, are
thousands of acres of the useful timber practically
untouched. Local use has been made of the wood for
station buildings, fences and sheep-yarcls and it
remains quite sound after over 30 years’ service
pioying beyond doubt its durability and remarkable
anti-whiteant properties. Another timber growing
m large quantities is the leopard wood, so named
because of its curiously-marked bark. This tree
produces a gum which, when boiled with a small
quantity of water, makes a first-class stiekfast. I
have used it on cardboard and light wood, and always
lound it superior to anything’ I could buy.
THE LANDMARK.
“Shay, I b’lieve I’m drunk. Can’t remember
what bloomin’ port we’re in. Shall ’ave
to look up the wife.”
“Jack H.” : Re “Senex” (B. 14/8/’l9) on
pine planting in Victoria. Does he know that kauri
pine takes 70 years to attain a diameter of 2ft 6in. ?
It’s a fact, whether he knows it or not.


a
o.
%
a
a
a
%
o
a
mt mm
Q
o
S^TE^PRESS
CIGARETTES
M An inspiration in Cigarette Flavor,
Fragrance and Bouquet.’*
®NUMBER®
o
D
'O
THE RED PACKET
c /n
Wr.
v.
'o,
r «*z
%
£
©
3$
$2
&
*6
a
9»r x <
o.
g?
'-V
</,
4
Z?«i
o
o
:°c
.?>•
o
o
5®


A. Saunders’ Inkstand, pure Silver-plated, hand burnished,
Cut Glass Bottle, 15/6.
A. Saunders' Beal Ebony
Hair Brush, solid Silver
Mounts, ii nest-quality
Bristles, 25/-
A. Saunders’ Stud Box, pure Silver-
plated, A 1 quality, hand engraved,
Ribbon design, Silk-lined, 12/6.
A. Saunders’ Shaving Cup, pure
Silver-plated, A 1 quality, hand en-
graved and burnished, 30/-
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Collar Box, pure Silver-plated,
A 1 quality, beautifully burnished and engraved,
Silk-lined, £3/15/-
TOILET GIFTS
a >
•w
w
*8
f|M
St
r
tmngr:a*
I
fts
J.>i*«sw
•JV <J ..ir>=as»'’ • ,«,v
. Saunders’ Solid Silver Toilet Brush Set, comprising Mirror,
rush and Comb, hand burnished and engraved, in Silk-lined
Case, £4/10/-
A. Saunders’ Glove Box, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality, richly
engraved “Ribbon” design, Silk-lined, £5.
A. SAUNDERS
JEWELjLER,
805-815 George Street
(Opp. Railwa;
Station),
y Sydney.
A. Saunders’ Jewel Casket. A 1 quality, pure Silver-
plated, highly burnished, Silk-lined, 30/-
A. Saunders Puff Jar, hand engraved,
Ribbon design, pure Silver-plated Lid,
Crystal Glass Jar, 12/6.
A. Saunders’ Head Salts
Bottles, solid Silver
Mounts, Cut Glass Bottles,
7/6, 10/6, 15/6.
A. Saunders’ Solid Silver
Hair Brush, finest-quality
Bristles, Empire Design,
me
m
*sg
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Ebony Brush Set, Sterling
Silver Shields, finest-quality Bristles, in solid
Leather Case, 25/-
1 have lived among, knew that there was always com-
pensation to be had on complaint of wanton assault.
One of the most brutal assaults I ever saw on a native
was made by a nigger police-inspector at Benihassar,
on the western edge of Egypt. The native was in-
terpreting for a Bedouin prisoner brought in from the
desert. After knocking him down with the handle
of his riding-crop, the inspector slashed him
across the face and eyes with the thong till Austra-
lians present interposed. No Egyptian policeman
would think twice about flailing any ordinary nigger
who annoyed him, and the nigger, in his turn, would
think the bobby an ass if he didn’t. The average
Australian’s idea of a thrashing would merely shake
up the average Egyptian’s fleas and cause him discom-
fort that way.
I am not concerned here with the circumstances
that did lead up to the Egyptian rising. If 1 dealt
with them I should have to say things more offensive
about the Rt. Hon. Robertson’s people and the offi-
cials who have represented them in Egypt, than even
he has said about the Diggers of my own country.
A Satchel of Books
The Notebooks of a Spinster Lady (Cassell, Lon-
don). These notes cover the ground from 1878 to
1903, and are chatty and breezy throughout. The
atmosphere of the latter Victorian era breathes
through the whole book. There is an endless chain
•of anecdote; and if most of the yarns are of the
slightest kind, the reader can spend an idle hour
•cheerfully learning the sort of things that amused
a past generation of Englishwomen. Thus “Lady
Duckworth, wife of the Governor at Plymouth, was
walking across the green at Fort Wise, when she
was stopped by the .sentry. ‘Why—do you know
who I am?’ said she. ‘No, I don’t,’ said the man;
‘but Ido know that j r ou are not the Governor’s cow,
and that is the only creature who has a right to
walk across here.’ ” Here is another. A civilian in a
hilly district in India wired to the next station:
“Calcutta mail due. Tiger in ticket-office. Take
measures accordingly.” Two hundred and ninety-five
pages of that sort with an index.
A Wind from the Wilderness, by Mary Gaunt (T.
Werner Laurie, London). A story that grips well.
The important scenes are laid in the west of China,
where the big Asiatic Republic touches Thibet and
there ayfe plenty of adventures. The Australian
authoress saw the places that she depicts, and the
characters are fairly convincing.
A Short History of the Great World War, by F. .
Maynard Bridge (Deane and Sons, London). It was
something of a feat to get a book of this sort to
Australia in the very earliest days of peace, for the
story is carried right up to November 17 of last
year. Step by step, in detail, with a fairly good
summary of the events of each year of the war, the
author builds his framework of history. It is little
more than a framework, and there is neither wealth
of description nor any attempt at analysis or criti-
cism of military movements. It is tolerably certain
that other writers will follow, who, from much more
ample material, will obtain poorer results. There
are 22 maps, but they are not good ones.
The House of Lynch, by Leonard Merrick, with
an introduction by G. K. Chesterton (Hodder and
Stoughton, London). This book is already known
to many i eaders; the new feature is the excellent
introduction. Merrick has an important place in
modern literature and Chesterton does him full jus-
tice. The volume is in the uniform edition of
‘“W'orks,” and well printed.
Bible and Sword, by Laurence Cowen (Hodder and
Stoughton, London). This is a pleasant enough,,
romance of the time of Cromwell, which will please
readers who do not mind their fiction being forged
out of perverted history. The conversations are
poorly handled and the figure of Milton is a gross
libel.
The Dean, by Lady Charmwood (Constable, Lon-
don). A simple and sincere story of English cleri-
cal life which is a little spoiled by the Dean’s con-
stant preaching. Has the usual war interest.
The Inky Way
Lieut. Phil Harris (“Philo” of many
Bulletin pars), who made the A.I.F. maga-
zine Aussie a huge success, will reach home
some time next mouth. The last copy of
Aussie was published, printed and distri-
buted right at the Front. The next will be
issued in Sydney. Aussie will make its new
start with bright prospects, and will be Aus-
tralian from cover to cover. Phil Harris, by
the way, is a brother-in-law of “Guinsucker”
Spielvogel, writer of many good yarns and
of one of the best books of travel-notes
printed in Australia.
Ex-Hansard man J. W. Roberts meets
Isaac Pitman in China: —
The reference to Justice Isaacs’ somewhat un-
common faculty of being able to read other writers’
shorthand notes reminds me of a unique experi-
ence. As a youth on the Vic. diggings I had a lot
of dealings with Chinese, and soon acquired a fair
knowledge of their lingo. After a lapse of over
25 years I visited China. I had not been long
in the company of my Chinese guide when I real-
ised that the dialect of which I had a fair mastery
as a boy was Cantonese. In a week’s travel with
the bright old man, who could swap lies in good-
ness knows how many foreign languages and local
dialects, I got into the habit of conversing with
him almost solely in Chinese. The old man had an
autograph-book which was his pride. It contained
records in almost all Spoken languages, and the
signatures of celebrities from the wide world over.
It was the owner’s boast that he could translate
•oaMk'igf ..the entries. .1 thought-thal I would indite
a page which would nonplus him. I prepared a
•description of Canton as I viewed it (that is, as
the vilest abomination of earth), and this I
entered in the book in the neatest Pitman I could
write. Imagine my surprise when shortly after I
returned the book the old man came along with
a smile “childlike and bland” and said: “That is
just splendid, from your point of view, but I think
that if the Governor were to see a translation of
it there would be some ‘business doing’ at the gaol.”
This reference was to the fact that on our visiting
the prison the courteous chief official expressed his
“leglet” that there was no “business doing” that
day—in other words, that there was to be no execu-
tion —but if it would please us he would have some
prisoners bastinadoed. The old guide swore by all the
genii of his country that he could read every word
of my shorthand, and with his blandest expression he
said, “You write Pitman belter than you talk
Cantonese.”
“Silas”: When Ted Banvard’s unrivalled
circus and wild beast show pitched its tents
at The Fly. Tommy Hodgson was proprietor,
editor, canvasser, roundsman, leader-writer
and boss of the comps on the local Bugle.
Banvard had encountered Hodgson before on
one or two provincial papers, and had fought
him over advt. rates and printing bills, and
at The Fly he was called upon to put up a
more than usually strenuous opposition to
Tommy’s charges, Tommy being now sole
owner and hungrier than ever. On the
first night of the circus’s stay, the lion
Hercules discovered a weak bar in his cage,
pushed his way out,
and went abroad.
There was a great
noise when the ab-
sence of Hercules was
discovered, but a hur-
ried search revealed
nothing. Banvard was
taking a hasty break-
fast at the hotel when
one of his men came
running in. “It’s all
right, boss,” said the
man. “Hodgson down
at the Bugle says lie’s
got the lion shut up
in his printing room.
He’s quite safe.” Ban-
vard grabbed his hat
and made for the
door. “Quite safe?”
he yelled. “Quite safe,
you damn fool! How
do you know Hodgson
isn’t eating him?”
E. DWYER GRAY,
Editor of Hobart
WORLD.
Capt. 11. R. Gollan, D. 5.0., M.C., de-
mobilised this month, was cub-reporter on the
Geelong Advertiser when he enlisted over
four years ago. He rose in the army from
-private to temporary major, and captured
two decorations on the way. The Adver-
tiser promised reinstatement to all em-
ployees -.who enlisted; but more* than mere
.reinstatement has been given—the years of
absence have' been counted for seniority, and
Gollan resumes as sub-editor.
After a life of two months the threepenny
Bon Vue, started in Adelaide by a couple
of returned soldiers, passed out the other
day. Picture puifs with a little society and
sporting gossip were too scanty a fare to
rear the infant on.
“1.H.”: Another threatens to write a
war-book—Frank Grose, a Y.M.C.A. man
with the First Divisional artillery. He was
a good bloke whose religion in the field was
to give a hungry man a feed and a fag, and
a dirty man a bath.
A. P. Adams, who lately left the S. Aus.
Government Reporting Department to join
Federal Hansard staff, is the eighth S. Aus-
tralian to thus cross over; and three of them
have been selected from the State Hansard
staff during the last four years.
“Sprag” (Lond.) : I went to Queen’s Hall
yesterday to hear Conan Doyle, who is now
the arch-priest of the influential cult of
spookery. The big hall was full. Doyle speaks
in the Scots’ language, and looks as if he had
just come down “off the Bland” to sell his
wool and see Sydney. He has a growly sort of
voice, and I felt hurt to find he has a sus-
picion of bow legs and a certainty of pigeon
toes. As a young medico from Edinbro’
some 35 years ago, he investigated spiritual-
ism and found it was all bosh. Then he
met Sir Wm. Crookes, one of England's
greatest scientists, also a spirit investigator.
Crookes said, “I have a clock pendulum in
a glass case in my laboratory, also a brass
pound-weight on a pair of scales encased in
glass. Let the spiritualists come and move
the pendulum and lift the weight in daylight
and I’ll believe them.” A noted ‘medium”
came to his rooms and ordered the pendulum
to swing. It did so. lie commanded the
weighing machine likewise to get a move
on. and it swayed vigorously. Then Crookes
fell, and Doyle fell after him. The story
didn’t thrill me, but all the spiritualists
around loved it.
“S.T.S.” : Did ever a novelist so wantonly
throw away a chance as McKenna in his
new “Midas and Son”? The hero, a multi-
millionaire, quite young, and engaged to his
one and only love, argues at the finish that
he may not be happy with her, and, after
hovering for about 26 pages of Hamlet-like
soliloquy on the edge of a fatally-high sky-
light, steps through it in the last sentence
of the book. Thus 1000 (estimated) women
readers, who had expected another “Sonia,”
put the book down as horrid, and tell 5000
friends not to buy it. Every author has
the right to kill his hero at will, you say.
True; but the wantonness in this case lies
in the fact that the story has carefully been
dated up to 1914, and that the suicide takes
place at dusk on August 4, just as every
paper-boy in London is crying War with
Germany. Two more pages, one for en-
listment and the other to get him killed
gloriously in Belgium, and the same result
would hqye been arrived at, and the book
would have been voted Sweet instead of
Horrid. As things are, the verdict is Tem-
porary Insanity—not of the hero, but of
the author.
THE LAY FIGURE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The poet took his battered lyre.
And to the careless maid
He softly tuned a song of fire.
She laughed-out from the shade.
And said: “I do not care a thing
For that fantastic song you sing.”
The poet touched the cords anew.
And sang a second verse,
Of love as gentle and as true
As mortal heart might nurse,
She drew a lozenge from her muff,
And called his poem “hopeless stuff.”
The poet still sang on. His lay
Gave glory to her nose.
Her hair was like the western day,
When dipping hotly goes
The sun behind the glowing sea.
She said : “It sounds just rot to me.”
The poet sang in perfect tune
To her brown-golden eyes.
She said: “It is a wretched rune.”
He answered: “Sweet and wise,
I do not give a button for
Your judgment—you’re no editor!”
VICTORIA,
EDDYSON.


m
v' / ;
- % ■
1
m.
ft*"-
m.
m
JB
W
m
iiBP^
■
Wk
%:
w
m
m
m
m
:
-■Wa*
■////
w
»
, /
sH
1
■ >
m
m
m
s <
m
mm
m
ill
I E
li
M
■*£
PP
5*
!
j* :
?%r
**?^^ /////// <?!
JHm
W//////XT'
I i |fc
I 5 #
XkjfAjy,
2*
'"•••
S'
'////////^
>J
|||2lEr
W^saF
/
m
u y %:y
m
'si'
us
■7.
/EE
kkUkks'-
wM
WM
m
'Sz"" / y
'/""'Z/y/Z.
mm
Wmm.
9^P
El
ii i
■
//E
Ha
V
%wmk
&c
Ml
■/
| p
HI
P
■
e/j
■
■
IP
§/
PP^
WU'7'y:;-...
m.
m
""'''77s.
m
yy/yy'"'
#o#*2?.i«Kf
m
W'
jo^W^
mZm
*£*<
mm
x 'S?‘-
yrs-
Abraham Lincoln
The Man who helped the Allies to win the war
—By encouraging the youthful American Iron and Steel Industry.
ABRAHAM LINCOLN’S VIEWS were stated in this way:—
When an American pays dollars for steel to a foreign manufac-
turer, America has the steel and the foreigner has the dollars.
But when he pays dollars for steel to an American manufacturer,
America has both the steel and the dollars.
Lincoln’s words are true to-day. When Australia sends outside the Commonwealth for Iron
and Steel, she does an injustice to Australians by depriving them of work, and also places
the Commonwealth at the mercy of an enemy in the time of danger.
Australian Iron and Steel
Nothing' else should be used in
Australian Workshops.


He
Catches
the Eye,
and he will catch
buyers’ eyes at Home-
bush.
Winchcombe,
Carson
will see to that. They
are expert salesmen,
alert and energetic.
CONSIGN STOCK:
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Flemlngton Siding:. LTD.
*4
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mulled Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
imnnmiiiiiiiiiiiiii
WARATAH
Fencing Wire
m
ItSRAIN
Fencing Wire
Ahead of all imported wires for
strength and lasting qualities, yet
costs less.
“WARATAH” FENCING WIRE, from
the Ore to the Fence Australian, is
guaranteed by the makers. hook
for the tag.
Order “Waratah” from your store-
keeper. We do not take orders for
direct supplies.
Send for Fencing Book Nl9. Free
on request.
Austral Nail Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Farrars Street, South Melbourne, Vio.
r QUEENSLAND.^
THE KEY TO '
PROSPERITY.
QUEENSLAND
opens the door to
prosperity tor those
requiring land
Particulars ot the
millions of acres ot
Crown Land
now available will be
sent you at once,
also Booklets on the
State's resources—
FREE
I\ame
Address
Queensland Government
lattMijeace 4a i Tourist Bureau
BRISBANE
m
l
sg@*
Co LrSrrenqth fc
F° r flavour
MARTIN’S PILLS
are sold by all chemists and stores. Ladies
recommend them. Be sure you get the
genuine with the signature:
MARTIN, Chemist, Southampton, England
I WISH I COULD TRAVEL!
DO you ever have a longing to see the wonders of the Panama Canal,
to view the beauty of the Inland Sea of Japan, to look at
Gibraltar, France, Italy, England or Egypt?
The wireless operator sees all these places. He travels the world
and is paid to do so. Do you wish you could be like him? So you can
by studying Wireless.
We have
DAY AND FVEXING CLASSES,
SPECIALISED COERESPO XDENCH COURSES,
and priority of appointments to all vacancies in the Australasian
Mercantile Marine.
Write or call —
Superintendent,
MARCONI SCHOOL OP WIRELESS,
97 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
422-424 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
and —
The August Issue of SEA, LAND S AIR
is now ready, and contains many Exclusive Illustrated Articles
relating to Aviation, Wireless, the Navy and Merchant Service.
Single Copies, 9(1.; Annual Subscription, 9/-, post free.
THE WIRELESS PRESS, 99 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
d
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
d
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
d
BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust —Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES -Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS:
Zinc
K. N.
Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited,
“Collins House,” 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sydney Agent: Adelaide Agent:
KIRK, 2o O’Connell Street. A. W. LEWIS, 62 Brooknian Buildings.
m
Sold by
Stationers and
Jewellers
Everywhere.
Australian Prices:
Safety Pattern
with slip • on
cap from 15/-
Standard Pat-
ternwith slip-on
cap from 12/6
Illustrated
Catalogue sent
Post Free on
request.
You can have a “Swan” that
will suit you better than any
other pen you are using.
Every person’s handwriting is peculiar. Every-
one feels that only one type of pen point will
suit his own style of writing. After obtaining
the point he likes, he becomes so attached to
his pen that he cannot write without it. No
other pen will serve his purpose.
&
WAN!
Get one to-day and it becomes in a few days
not A fountain pen but YOUR pen —a writing
instrument peculiarly your own.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD.,
79 & 80, High Holborn, London, Eng.
Manchester; Paris, Zurich, Toronto, &c. Sydney —(Wholesale only),
225 a, George Street. London Factory—3l9-329, Weston
Street, S.E. Associate House—Mabie.Todd & Co.,
Inc., New York and Chicago.
Australian Branch:
J. A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings. 255 a George Street, Sydney. *
THE PALACE HOTEL.
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OF PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
JOHN T. GLOWKEY, Proprietor.
COOL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Away a-down the long ago,
When hope was young and blood was fire,
I met an avalanche of snow —
It was the girl of my desire.
I, rapturous, told her of my love ;
My heart throbbed like a castanet;
I vowed by all the gods above....
She said, “Dear boy—a cigarette!”
I’m sure I loved that iceberg well —
Oh, neck of alabaster rare!
If ever I should go to Hell
I’ll feel much cooler if she’s there.
N.S. W.
AVEBFOOT.
S. A. Rosa, who is imploring the new
N.S.W. Socialist Party not to spoil its
members’ election chances by calling itself
“Revolutionary,” once contested the Bourke
seat and polled two figures.
J. D. Millen, manager of the Bischoff, the
Commonwealth’s biggest tin-mine, is think-
ing hard about a Tasmanian seat in the
Senate. He is a wallah of the Loyalty
League, and also stands well with the Pro-
hibition party.
John Lewis, of S.A. Leg. Council, writing
from London to friends in Adelaide, describes
how on Peace Day he “looked out of the
window, and, although the Strand was
thronged with people, three Diggers found
room to play two-up, and soon had a crowd
round them.”
“Silex”: Cork# don't cease to be useful
when the bottle’s opened. The Zeristo cork-
works in Melbourne are ready to buy them,
granulate them and press them into sheets
under a squeeze of 14001 b. to the square
inch. Old cork life-jackets come in handy,
too, as raw material. The sheets are finding
a market as insulating material for refriger-
ators and cool stores.
Melbourne publicans run the Co-operative
brewery, which is doing the Carlton and
United Breweries no good; now, in Wales,
the encroachment on the old brewery cos.
has been carried a step further. Workmen’s
clubs, numbering 09, from the north of Mon-
mouthshire to the west of Glamorganshire,
with a membership of 20,000, have bought
a brewery for themselves.
The historic Encounter Bay district of
S. Aus., just outside the Murray mouth, is
reviving the memory of its parson pioneers.
Newland, both farmer and preacher, was
the first, and Hodge took up the work after
him. The Congregational Church at Victor
Harbor is the oldest in S. Aus., excepting
Stow Church in Adelaide. The foundation
stone of an extension has been laid by one
Ilodge son, now registrar of Adelaide Uni.,
and another comes from Maoriland to con-
duct the opening service. And Simpson
Newland, politician and pastoralist, now
himself 84, is to figure in the proceedings.
“O. Blin”: Re postal economy (B.
14/8/T9). During the ’flu outbreak in Vic-
toria I went to Queenscliff to communicate
with an oversea traveller who had come off
an infected ship and was interned at Port-
sea. Unable to see the passenger, I wanted
to wire the Portsea Quarantine Station from
Queenscliff, but learnt that my message had
to travel via Geelong, Melbourne and Morn-
ington—a distance of about 120 miles —to
reach a place which is a little over a mile
from the ’Cliff P.O. Conversation by Web-
ster’s telephone having to take the same
route, I borrowed the military telephone at
the Queenscliff fort and caught my friend
in 45 sec. No wonder Melbourne is bloated.
It is bursting with superfluous telegrams.
“Ike Pagliacci”: Canvas has soared to
such a price that practically all stage
cloths are now painted on both sides. When
a new script comes along a manager ignores
the beautiful dialogue until he has first
figured out how much scenery he owns that
can be worked in. And there are other
times when dialogue isn’t everything. A
Sydney managey read a play recently in
which the heroine appeared on the horizon
in an aeroplane that gradually came over
the stage prison. She then dropped a rope-
ladder into the gaol yard, the hero climbed
up, and the pair soared away amid the
farewell shots of the thwarted warders. The
manager gleefully sent the typed description
to his chief mechanist, asking if he could
manage the scene. The paper returned to
the head office with the scrawl: “I’m not
a Hawker.”
An energetic Australian, Sergeant C.
Doherty, who has just returned to his unit
in Egypt, spent a long term in Persia and
Southern Russia with a picked Imperial
Force under Major-General Dunsterville—-
the original of Kipling’s “Stalky.” After
helping to recruit and train Armenian, Gelu,
Kurdish and Persian levies, this Digger
sergeant fought with them against scattered
forces of Germans, Turks and Bolsheviks.
Hampered by thousands of refugees during
a 250-mile retreat, it was only the superb
courage and accurate shooting of the
Armenian women that saved the column.
Numerous little Armenians arrived during
the retreat, and in the absence of a medical
man, Doherty acted as doctor. Not a mother
died.
“Bally Who”: We were running the starv-
ing man at the time, and he had reached
that stage in his fast when (the advts.
announced) he was only half a dinner off
death. The public was paying handsomely
to see him die, when our spruiker talked
himself into a nervous breakdown. We tried
hard to get an experienced man to take his
place, but the only applicant was a stone-
broke individual who had never spoken in
public in his life. His stage fright was
appalling. The boss listened in vain for his
voice, then strode out furiously to give him
the sack and met a flood of wide-eyed
visitors. Puzzled he went to the entrance,
where a huge crowd had gathered, fascinated
by the manner and words of the pallid and
perspn ing spruiker who, gulping with ner-
vousness, awed the crowd into seeing the
starving man, with the almost inaudible in-
junction to “Pass quietly round the tomb,
ladies and gentlemen, and speak only in
whispers.” Those at the rear, eager to
hear the bad news, pushed those in front
!-n°u^ e Pay-box. The business was great
till the spruiker got over his shvness. Then
he was so much of a failure that we heart-
lessly sacked him.


Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery.
A Dose in Time Saves Nine.
*o^
Mr. ARTHUR (ORHR) ORBELL (from a Barony
Studios photo).
You will never prove this old proverb more true than when
you take a c-old in hand early. A cold in the first stages can
be quickly relieved with a dose or two of a good remedy like
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery, but a neglected cold soon
becomes obstinate and harder to treat. Get in early. Always
keep a bottle of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery in the house,
and take a dose at the first sign of a cold. Don’t wait till
to-morrow.
It’s the little colds that grow into big ones, the big ones that
end in bronchitis and pneumonia. Don’t wait till to-morrow
to treat the little colds, for one dose of Dr. Sheldon’s New
Discovery for Coughs and Colds will break up a cold if taken
at the beginning.
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery stops the cough and cold and
prevents any serious complications It is unequalled for
influenza and bronchitis, and is invaluable for croup or
whooping-cough, for while it is most powerful in its action,
yet it can be administered to the smallest child with the same
safety as to the full-grown adult.
DR. SHELDON’S NEW DISCOVERY
Best for Children and Grown Folk, too.
Our friends are our best advertisements, for it is they
who have tried I)R. SHELDON’S NEW DISCOVERY who
know its merits. Noted artists, singers and prominent
citizens from all over Australasia have testified to the value
of this famous remedy.
Miss AMY ROCHELLE (from a Grace Bros, photo),
the Popular Principal Hoy in ‘‘Babes in the Wood."
“I am dropping 1 you a line to let you know what I think about I)r. Sheldon’s
New Discovery, for I have used it and can honestly say I have never had anything
that always did the work so quickly and effectively as this Remedy. I have reason
to know, for I have used it at the Front; in fact, it was one of the most valuable
articles that I received in my parcels from home, and whenever I have a cough
or cold it is always I)r. Sheldon’s New Discovery that I rely upon.
“1 can most heartily recommend it to all my friends as a most excellent Cough
and Cold Kemedy. “Yours very truly.
“(Sgd) ARTHUR B. ORBEU,.
“Date 10,409, A.A.M.C.”
“As an admirer of your unequalled throat remedy may I write to express what
I have long felt about It? Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is my mascot —I am never
without it. Constantly singing as I do, it is most necessary for me to keep my
voice in perfect working order. This I have never failed to do by the aid of Dr.
Sheldon’s New Discovery. I take a sip before I sing, and afterwards —thus pro-
tecting and toning the vocal chords. I wouldn’t he without Dr. Sheldon’s New
Discovery for the world.
“I remain yours faithfully,
“(Sgd.) AMY KOCHELEE.”
A Mother Praises
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
*
“Dear Sirs, —At two years of age my little
girl Phoebe suffered with an acute attaek of
croup. I tried the usual remedies, and evi-
dently they did not get at the root of the ail-
ment, because the attack left Phoebe with a
severe cough, which sometimes became chok-
ingly croupy at night. A friend of mine in
whose house I was staying with Phoebe was
awakened one night by one of these frightful
coughing seizures, and she brought in to me
a bottle of your Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
and we gave the almost-choking child a dose
of the mixture. The effect was so immediately
beneficial that I have kept Dr. Sheldon’s won-
derful remedy by me ever since. I feel that
if I had used it at the first, instead of trying
other so-called curative medicines, Plioebe
would not have suffered so with her cough. I
send you her photograph, which will show
you how well she keeps now.
“Hoping that my little note of appreciation
of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery may help
other mothers to rely on your good, simple,
soundly-healthful remedy,
“I remain, yours faithfully,
“(Sgd) OEIVE E. TUBB,
“ ‘Shirley,’ Penkevil Street,
“Willoughby.”
Don’t Neglect a Cold.
It’s Dangerous.
STOPS COUGHS —BANISHES COLDS.
THE LATEST AND BEST.
Little EILEEN HEWITT, in the uniform of
a Red Cross Nurse, in which dress she has
assisted and collected big sums at various
patriotic functions.
Eileen is a genuine New Discovery Girl.
Her mother writes that she cures her
winter cold every year with Dr. Sheldon’s
New Discovery. Follow her example and pro-
tect your children with this famous remedy.
“My children, Gordon and Eileen, are very
fond of your Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery,
and I cure their winter colds every year with
it. The other day I said to Eileen, ‘Your
cold is not well yet, Eileen.’ She answered:
‘I hope it won’t get well, because you give me
Dr. Sheldon’s every night and morning, and I
love it.’ She was disappointed, for her cold
quickly disappeared, and the children’s favor-
ite medicine (and I nnay say Australia’s best
Cough and Lung mixture) was hidden away
from them in the cupboard.
“I am sending you their photographs, as it
will interest you to see such lovers of your
famous New Discovery.
“I remain, yours faithfully,
“(Sgd.) F. M. HEWITT,
“ ‘Moolree,’ Cremorne Road,
“Cremorne Foint.’"
LITTLE PIKE HE TUBIS (from a photo).-
MM I :
*
LITTLE EILEEN HEWITT (from a photo).
There’s danger in a cold. The cold you get may he a timely warning of something more dangerous to follow. Some people catch cold easily—
no sooner one cold cured than they get another one. That’s dangerous. A cold lowers the vitality and weakens the whole body. It starts
with watery eyes, sore-all-over feeling, and perhaps runs into influenza, bronchitis or pneumonia. So prepare for trouble before it troubles you.
A bottle of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is a safeguard against such ills.
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is a preventive as well as a remedy, and is a necessity in every household.
Remember, a dose of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery should be taken before a cold weakens the system. It is tire modern “break-up-a-cold ’ remedy,
and will not only banish your cold but will strengthen your chest and lungs.
When buying medicine everyone knows that it is quality, not quantity, that counts, so be wise and take a bottle <of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
home with you to-night.
DR. SHELDON’S NEW DISCOVERY is sold everywhere at 1/6 a bottle, and larger bottles, which are more economical for family use, as they
hold two-and-a-lialf times the quantity of the 1/6 size, which are sold at 3/- per bottle.
D« Sheldons
NewDiscovekV
FOG
ND
DS


d
HOLEPROOF HOSE
have been bought by
millions of people for
many years. That fact
alone is proof enough
of extraordinary
value.
Have you ever thought
what YOU may he mis-
sing by going without this
brand ?
Here is practically . . .
ABSOLUTE FREEDOM
from darning and you
have the choice of pure
silk and fine lisle.
d
If your
dealer is
unable to
supply you.
write us.
Indents and
Wholesale thru
ALTER
CAT H R O
RTY. LTD.
. r 0 Yopk 'St
SYDNEY.
BRITISH
AND BEST
YELLOW
METAL
PEN
GOLDEN
WATTLE
mm
MADE BY
- MACNIVEN & -
CAMERON UTP
BIRMINGHAM & EDINBURGH
£
" they COME AS a BOON & A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL & THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
JSI should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Beading Boom at the Offices, 115 High llol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
Legal Notice.
TN THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENSLAND,
x No. 115 of 1919,
Matrimonial Jurisdiction—Mr. Justice Chubb.
Between ANNIE ADA HOWARD, Plaintiff, and
PAUL ALEXANDER HOWARD, Defendant.
To the Defendant, PAUL ALEXANDER HOWARD.
TAKE NOTICE that this action was on the twenty-
fourth day of March 1919 commenced against
you and that the Plaintiff by her writ of Summons
claims a dissolution of her marriage with you AND
by her Petition filed in this Honorable Court on the
twenty-fourth day of March 1919 the Plaintiff
alleges that on or about the twentieth day of January
1916 and Oh other days between that day and the
fifth day of February 1916 you committed adultery
with Charlotte Dowdle wife of Oliver Dowdle at
Gympie in the State of Queensland AND. that on the
fifth day of February, 1916 you deserted the
Petitioner and have never since returned to cohabit
with her AND take notice that the Court has .by
Order dated the eighth day of'August 1919 authorised
the service of the said Writ and . Petition on you by
publishing this Notice once in a newspaper circulat-
ing at Bundaberg in the State of Queensland once
in a newspaper circulating at Gympie aforesaid and
once in The Bulletin a newspaper published'in Syd-
ney in the State of New South Wales AND take
notice that you are required within twenty-one days
from the date of the publication hereof to cause an
appearance to be entered for you at the Registry of
the Supreme Court of Queensland at Brisbane and
that in default of your so doing the Plaintiff may
proceed in this action and that judgment may be
given against you in your absence.
Dated this fourteenth day of August, 1919.
(1.5.) CIIAS. S. NORRIS, Registrar.
H. ,¥... Hfiinam, Solicitor for the Plaintiff, / \
356-3 S&" Queen Street, Brisbane. ' '
Invest gladly
Money invested in the Peace
Loan is not only a manifestation of
patriotism—but good business.
Interest at a high rate is guaran-
teed, and the amount invested will
be repaid in full in 1927.
The resources of Australia are
; f
pledged to the payment of both
principal and interest.
Invest as largely as you can. Go
to your Bank to-day and borrow to
the full extent of your ability to
meet the obligation.
Buy your share of
the £25,000,000.
The Banks will lend 90 per cent, of the
amount of Peace Bonds applied for, and will
not ask for any security other than that of the
Bonds themselves. Eighteen months are
allowed by the Banks for the repayment of the
money advanced, whilst only 4 per cent,
interest is charged on the daily overdraft. The
Bonds yield 5£ per cent, interest. Subscrip-
tions will be received on and after Tuesday,
26th August.
. ' 1
Commonwealth Treasury,
August, 1919
W. A. WATT, Treasurer.
The Universal Dustim Pulveriser
Grinding Mills for All Classes
of Material.
Write Us on Your Grinding
Propositions and we will
quote you for a Suitable
Machine.
Separator Screens for Super-
phosphates, Chemicals, Ores,
etc.
We also Manufacture Packing
Machines for Filling Packets
or Tins.
Keg and Barrel Elevators.
Platform Elevators for Boxes
and Packages.
Gravity Runways or Con-
veyors—no power required to
drive.
Steel and Cast-iron
Conveyors.
The Universal Dustless
Pulveriser, Rigid and
Swing-hammer Types,
Size No. 10, with
Shaker Peed.
Flour Mill Machinery.
Mixing: Machinery.
Dressing: Machinery.
We can Quote you for a Com-
plete Self-raising Flour
Plant.
Friction Hoists.
Apron and Belt Conveyors.
Combined Grinding: and
Dressing Plants.
Boiler Feed Power Pumps.
Suction Sack Cleaners.
Bottle-filling Machines.
Concrete- and Mortar-mixing
Machines.
Adjustable Feeders.
Factory Experts and Con-
sulting Engineers.
Schumacher Mill Furnishing Works Pty. Ltd.,
PORT MELBOURNE, VICTORIA. [4
The Commonwealth has made 1164 arti-
ficial legs for wounded soldiers since it com-
menced this work in April, 1918. The South
Melbourne factory alone has turned out
459 artificial limbs. There are 29 Diggers
on the South Melbourne staff, of whom 26
are self-made men, at least to the extent of
an arm or a leg.
“A. J.A.” : The tricky laws of evidence fre-
quently prove too much for the police in-
spectors who prosecute in minor cases. Re-
cently, in Melbourne City Court, John Hop
was telling the Bench just how it happened.
*T said to accused,” he commenced. “Never
mind what you said to accused !” roared the
inspector; “that’s not evidence. ‘ln conse-
quence of something you said to accused, he
said—go on.” John started again stolidly.
“In consequence of something I said to ac-
cused, accused said, ‘I dunno.’ ” (“Silence
in the Court!”)
“Copabella”: A burst of economy two
years ago led the Vic. Police Department to
utilise the official blue envelope, not the
customary once, but until worn out. It
was done by means of an address sticker
over the flap. This label was broken on
arrival, and a fresh one used as a re-seal
when the envelope took its next trip. The
Department has now improved on that: it
is haying envelopes made from old account-
books) The idea is good, for the paper in
some ]of the books is linen-tough and almost
of bdnk-note grade; and the ledger en-
velopes will last out a dozen of the old
blues.;
“Doug”: He was a wise old owl who said:
“The | best prophet of the future is the
past.”! There’s a book in the public libraries-
that both the Dty Division and the Beoi*
Battalion should read. It is W. Craig’s
“My 'Adventures. op the Australian Gold-
fields.!’ Craig was an old-time digger who
sat dbwn quietly in the evening to write of
the things he’d seen in his day. After tell-
ing how the Vic. Government introduced
prohibition of liquor on the goldfields in
the early ’fifties he added: “At no period
of its history was the consumption (i.e., of
the Demon) so great, or crime....so prev-
alent.”
“Kyon”: Coming home across the Bight,
a little further south than usual, we had
a magnificent view of the Aurora Australis,
the whole of the southern sky aglow with
colors constantly changing. We were argu-
ing as to the cause, when the ship’s light-
ning shooter joined us at the rail. “It’s
quite simple,’’ he explained. “That little
picture-show is the result of the ionisation
of the aether, due to the passage of ‘positive’
electricity from the upper layers of the
atmosphere to the ‘negative’ earth, con-
centration at the polar regions being caused
by the magnetic attraction of the pole.”
We thanked him humbly and turned for
another look.
“Copy Boy” : Pastoralists’ associations are
waking up to the iniquity of the draft
allowance on wool sent abroad, and when
the Imperial wool purchases are completed
it is likely that a move will be made to
abolish it. Hughes was urged to take action
when the deal was being arranged, but he
refused to worry about such trifles. The
“draft allowance” is an antiquated custom
as a result of which the overseas manufac-
turer who buys lewt. of wool receives 1131 b.
The system was originated years ago when
samples were drawn from the bales, which
thus lost a trifle in weight ; but as samples
are no longer taken in this way in Aus-
tralia the system has no longer any
justification. While it lasts purchasers
of 2,000,000 bales of wool receive
6,000,0001 b gratis, and at present prices that
represents a loss of £375,000 to growers.
Alfred Billson, M.L.A. for Ovens and a
former Vic. Minister for Railways, makes
a Hobby of giving the Railways administra-
tion a twist. While he was in charge Bill-
son did his best to gather up-to-date in-
formation from other countries; and he is
usually able to look up his records and touch
the spot with a remark as to how the thing
is done in Kamschatka or Guam. His latest
is a demand for “fuller information in the
Railways reports.” In meagreness of de-
tail Australian railway accounts compare
unfavorably with the lucid statements issued
by such a body, for instance, as the Prahran-
Malvern Municipal Tramways Trust. There
can be no sound reason why the Vic. Rail
ways Department should surround its affairs
with a fog of obscure figures while a com-
peting municipal enterprise, run on the
of financial margins, makes no bones,
about its position. Billson recommends that
the Commissioners should examine the- ac-
countancy systems of France and the
U.S.A.; but a visit to Malvern might give
the Department most of the points it needs.
“Shank Painter”: Here in Maoriland we
have been celebrating the Great Rest which
has descended upon a war-weary world.
After official Peace Day I opened my morn-
ing paper and found the first page devoted
to the local celebrations. Then I turned
to the page containing the neWs of the,
world, and these were the headlines
War Cables: Peace Celebrations; The Luton Dis-
turbances,; Cause of the Outbreak. The Melbourne
Riot: Due to Arrest of Returned Men; The Premier
Assailed. Unrest in Gernjany: Another Small Repub-
lic. Rhine Army of Occupation, Hungary’s Trouble •
, V irt u ally ' a prisoner ; . A Dictatorship
Established. Bolshevism:! A Flamboyant Proclama-
tion ; Kill the Landlords” ; A Bolshevist Offensive;
General Deniken’s Reverse; Fierce Fighting Proceed-
ing. Unemployed Soldiers’ Grievances; Disturbances
at Manchester. Industrial Unrest: British Miners’
Strike; iNorth Nottingham Men Out; English Rail-
way Strike; Further Extension of Trouble; Aus-
tralian Seamenls Strike; Seemen’s - Secretary
Arrested for Bolshevist , Speech ; AValsh Sept to Gaol.
British Coal Crisis: A Graye Situation ; Flooding Of
Mines Threatened; Miners’. Sabotage ; The . Strike
Spreading. - General Strike at Christiana: Traffic
Paralysed. Disturbance at Wellington: Attempt to
Hold Up Traffic. Colliery dispute: The Pukemiro
Trouble. The Irish Problem: Mr. Devlin’s Protest.
Race Riots in America;. Numerous Casualties; The
Military Called Out; Washington Patrolled by Sol-
diers; Shooting Near the White House. Profiteering :
A Clergyman’s Denunciation.
But the world is at Peace. Thank Heaven
for that! - • -


Reputation is but another name
for public confidence. Public con-
fidence is founded on an unvarying
experience of honest service and sin-
cere redemption of business promises.
Therefore, it is a sound principle of business
that when you buy a commodity you should
buy reputation.
To secure a constant, high record from each
tyre is the Goodyear aim. The Goodyear policy
—Positively-better-construction---is the reason
for the motorists’ confidence in wonderful
Goodyear Tyres.
What he has found them do before he is certain that
they will do again. He is confident that the high level
of service they have reached before can be depended on
in the case of every new tyre.
Goodyear Tyres are all members of a
family with a big reputation. No one tyre
is allowed to jeopardise that reputation.
>i
C 4
<
I
W
<5
&
Buy your Goodyear Tyres, Heavy Tourist Tubes
and Tyre Saver .Accessories from the Goodyear
Service Station. There is one in your loca T ity.
Branches & Agencies
all Principal Cities.
Service Stations and
Dealers Everywhere.


For Hair and Skin Health
Cuticura is Supreme
If you use Cuticura Soap for every-
day toilet purposes, with touches of
Cuticura Ointment now and then as
needed to soothe and heal the first
pimples, redness, roughness or scalp
irritation you will have as clear a
complexion and as good hair as it is
possible to have.
Soap to cleanse and Ointment to heal.
**R. Town* & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.” Sold
by dealers throughout the world.
so tasty
HP
sauce.
Gives a new and
delicious flavour to
the food.
Be sure it is the
One and Only
H.P. Sauce.
IgMORROCKSES'MORROCKSES'MORROCKSEya
MORROCKSES'MORROCKSES’MORROCKSES’ MORROCKSES 1
rtORROCKSES*
d
tiyAi/e jff/ac/ d ,41/ S/ac/es
LINGERIE DRESSES AND BLOUSES
SEE MORROC KSES DIAPMALENE" ,
d
iMORROCKSES^MORROCKSES’nORROCKSES’MORROCKSES 1
SC
3
/iQRROCKSES’MORROCKSES’ MORROCttSES'
Baby is a
Connoisseur
in his own little way. He likes
and must have the best.
You cannot be too cautious in
selecting his food. Use a proved
food a food which has been in
the front rank for many years.
Mellin’s Food is the proved most
efficacious equivalent to Mother’s
Milk, and satisfactorily fulfils all the
requirements of an artificial food,
Mellin's
Food
Set out to feed baby right. Next to breast-feed-
ing. the Mellin's Feeding Bottle has most advan-
tages. A trial convinces you.
A Sample of Mellin's Food, with Handbook for
Mothers. “The Care of Infants in Australia," tree.
MESSRS. GOLLIN & 09- PROPRIETARY, LTD.
< vii WRY
J ui "T MU -T JCT U L
ooo£>oo 00-Qooo 0000-00 000000
■ I -gpu
o^o
r
oO°
■£3<*>2
00^3000
tePMi
ao
a is
nn
WAITING!
There is nothing so trying for a woman
these days as waiting —always waiting.
It needs a steady nerve and a strong heart to
carry on —do the day’s work with a cheerful face,
and have a smile handy.
Give yourself a chance to do this by keeping
fit —a tonic that really helps is
Dhosformo
I THE ROYALTONIC
This is a nerve and cell food and strengthener
that is helping many folk over the worries, work
and waiting that the world is going through now,
PROVED FOR 50 YEARS
All Chemists
1/- . 2/6 - 4/6
Ashton &C Parsons Ltd.
London and Melbourne
CAC-
CAC' |
=a-^Jg
HIGH-GRADE SHEET METALS
C-A'C-
BRASS, COPPER, NICKEL SILVER
ALUMINIUM, GILDING METAL
MANUFACTURED BY
THE COLONIAL AimiUNITION CO. LTD.
GORDON STREET, FOOTSCRAY, Vic.
Obtainable from all the leading Hardware .Houses in the Commonwealth.
SALES OFFICES:
VICTORIA—CoIIins House, Collins Street, Melbourne - - Phone Central 1995
NEW SOUTH WALES—SB Pitt Street, Sydney - - - Phone City 2b77
QUEENSLAND—CampbeII’s Buildings, Creek Street. Rrisbane Phone 2382
c-a-c- rp
Ji
The conditions ruling at this
time necessitate the strictest
economy in use of fuel and lubricants.
Such economy, however, need not entail any reduction
rn output if line shaftings and machines are equipped
with
Self-Aligning
Ball Bearings.
—the bearings which are the best guarantee of efficient
and economical working.
self-aligning Ball Bearings throughout
iUUR plant.
0
ffßNs
4
ower & LIGHT ENGINE
f MELBOURNE SYDNEV BOISaANE~|
umiiiiiminimiiiiiiiumni
'//////////////a
. 'i.
mW-
£c
$
\
39
.uunrnnmmmiiimmiimmiiinim
d
Dear Bulletin, will Bobbie Burns
Forgi’e a brither Scot
\Vha kens the mony twists an’ turns
O’ life’s grim meltin’-pot,
If he should find this other plan
O’ civ’lisation drawn —
Man’s inhumanity to man
Mak’s countless thousands pawn.
N.s.w. 11 * P. 10UNG.
The oldest auctioneer in Victoria, or in
Australia perhaps, is J. G. Stanford, who
has been knocking Melbourne down for 54
years.
Two ladies are among the 11 ambitious
Westralians who are asking the Labor party
to make them its Senate candidates at next
election.
No Labor pre-selection ballot has had to
be taken this year for the right to contest
the Ballarat seat in the Reps., the only
nomination received being that of Dave
McGrath, the sitting member, who served
with the A.I.F.
Lieut.-Governor Irvine, when Premier, was
responsible for the shortest speech ever de-
livered by a A r ic. Governor in opening a
Parliamentary session. The whole deliver-
ance (spoken on May 13, 1003, by Governor
Clarke) consisted of 02 words. That was
the session called to deal with the railway
strike.
In 1914 the best-known brand of knitting
wool (imported) was per skein, and
the skein was one-twelftli of a lb. Now it
is lid. per skein, and the skein is one-
eighteenth of a lb. Owing to the importing-
craze, that kind of profiteer is out of reach.
' But it makes Labor leaders so wild that
they are ready to stop the tram-cars or the
silver-mines almost any day.
Though the Peacock Ministry, in which
Lawson was Attorney-General, resisted the
appointment of a wages board for railway
employees, the Lawson Government has
thought better of it. A bill just introduced
authorises a Board consisting of two nomi-
nees of the Railway Commissioners, two
nominees of the employees, and a County
Court Judge. Like wages board members,
the four members of the Board are to re-
ceive fees and prescribed exes.
One of the bad features of strikes as com-
pared with arbitration is that, in every
strike that drags over a week or two, more
or less of the strikers compete for jobs
where the wages and conditions are
generally worse than those against which
they struck. Nearly four-fifths of the men
on strike in a branch of the metal trade in
Sydney a while ago were found to have
butted in elsewhere, and in at least one case
spoiled the chance of an improvement in
conditions.
Old King Cole, of the Book Arcade, was
not long survived by the monkeys which
for years were a popular feature of the
premises. An epidemic broke out among the
animals and several died. The others were
removed to an emergency hospital, but none
were saved. At one time 70 monkeys were
considered necessary to encourage a taste
for literature. Their benevolent owner was
as fond of them as though they were quota-
tions from the poets, and although once
bitten he never grew shy in their presence.
“Kello”: One of the troubles of the A.I.F.
was that the War Office was always butting
in. When Aussie boots were landed in Eng-
land they were fitted with hobnails and toe
and heel plates, in accordance with a War
Office instruction. The civilian bootmakers
employed on this work were paid something
like Is. 6d. an hour. Later these boots were
despatched to the various divisional dumps
in France, to be issued to the troops as re-
quired. Speaking for our division, when the
boots arrived the plates and nails were
stripped off, and a clump sole and heel fitted
with fresh plates and nails. First-class
fighting men who were not bootmakers were
kept out of the line for this job until some-
body woke up and altered things.
In taking its place among the self-govern-
ing nations, with more or less right to talk
direct to 'foreign Governments, Australia
merely gets back to where it was about a
hundred years ago. It wasn’t, for instance,
thought at all_ improper or even remarkable
when, in 1805, Governor King sent Lieut.
Robbins, R.N., in the colonial cutter Integrity,
under a flag of truce, to Valparaiso, bearing
despatches to Don Louis Guzman, “Captain-
General of the kingdom of Chile,” dealing
with certain buccaneering exploits of the
brig Harrington, sailing out of Sydney. Un-
luckily—though this has nothing to do with
the story—Robbins, his cutter and his crew
vanished utterly; nothing has ever been
heard of them from that day to this.
“Sol. Malaprop” : On August 21 Senator
Lynch kept the House away from Australian
business for 90 minutes with a discourse on
the point that Britain (which we don’t
control) should grant Home Rule to Ireland
(which we don’t control, either). The de-
bate, being unfinished, was to be renewed
next week. Dash this inadequate half-
hearted Home Rule ! Let Ireland have abso-
lute independence, and be a republic, and
take its troubles (which are bad enough, but
are not our troubles) off our doorstep ! Then
Senator Lynch, I suppose, would be an alien
without a vote or a seat. Ireland is only
the four-hundred-and-fifty-fifth part of the
Empire in size, and England could steal
some place twice as big to make up for it.
I am sorry for Ireland ; but what can I do?
“Samblebe”: “Cobber” lately gave the
name of Edgar Saul, of Hobart, as the
youngest member of the A.I.F. I nominate
Ernest Victor Lee, alias Ernest John Jef-
fries, son of Herman Lee, of Mossiface
(Vic.). This boy enlisted in the sth Bat-
talion on 8/1/T6 at the age of 14 years
3 months, put in three months’ training, left
for Egypt 4/4/T6, spent three weeks there
and fired his first shots at Fleurbaix. He
fought at Pozieres and Hill 60 until Christ-
mas, when his age was discovered and he
was sent home, after 525 days in khaki. Not
content with that much he went to N. S.
Wales, re-enlisted on 6/11/T7, and after a
further 591 days’ fighting returned dis-
-111 e ge d n n 19/4/T9. Total days’ service,
Hl' s - Home again, he went out shooting
and after bringing down a swan in a lagoon
stripped all but boots, pants and leggings,
swam in for the bird, and drowned.


Stop Torturing
Toothache Quickly.
Stopain Toothache Gum
Instantly Ends The Ache
And Helps Save The Tooth.
Don’t put up with toothache a minute. You
don’t have to. Just put a little piece of Stopain
Toothache Gum in the cavity, or around the
tooth and all pain is gone as if by magic.
u
Let STOPAIN Stop That Boring Pain.
It fills up the cavity, excluding the air, and
stopping the mouth acids from acting on the
frantic, jumping nerve; hardens quickiv, and
forms a serviceable filling that will last for a
long time—until you are ready to have a per-
manent filling put in.
Why punish yourself ? Why endure the
agony of toothache when a shilling box of
Stopain Toothache Gum will quickly restore
your peace of mind ?
Keep it on hand for emergencies.
Stopain Toothache Gum is sold by most
medicine vendors at a shilling a box, or sent
direct upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
520-528 Riley Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Drives Away
Corns Quickly.
At last a real ' does what it says ’ Corn Cure;
nothing like it or just "S good has ever been
known.
Every man or woman who has corns, Warts
or bunions ought to try Handy Corn Cure at
once and see how marvellously it works. Quit
shaving your corn with a razor. You may draw
blood and cause blood-poisoning.
ysr4s.
m
&
Handy Corn Cure will get rid of every corn
you have got without pain or discomfott.
Handy Corn Cure is remarkable because it
never irritates or turns the true flesh sore or
raw. It can’t—it’s that antiseptic, safe and
harmless. The corn shrivels up and comes out.
1/- Per Box everywhere. Posted free by
Sunset Drug Co., 520-528 Riley-st., Sydney.
Coughs and,Sneezes
Soread Diseases
f
r a
S 3
a*
oO“
*»**
L*|u
oo^r
d
K
JOI
K
skew
tag®
S 3
5?
MX >"i,
' J,
,i/riyT'N-' ' ‘ -
m
IV
n
H l . -
V X
r.t
n‘
/:
\
■ -;
Beware o* deadly germs
mfluenza is a germ disease, spread by
human contact chiefly through coughing,
sneezing and spitting.
Keep up your strength with good food and
open air exercise. Keep your bowels regular
with Chamberlain’s Tablets.
Above all keep free from colds by taking
an occasional dose of Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy. It loosens the phlegm makes
breathing easier—stops coughing and sneez-
ing —clears away the mucus, the breeding
place foi germs.
Jo\ J'j/eaJcK GfalWtj/
Chamberlains
COUGH REMEDY
Diarrhoea.
Diarrhoea attacks all ages, and is equally
ratal to young and old. The great danger in
this disease is due to the frequent lack of
proper treatment in the first stsges. Chamber-
lain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy is a reliable
and effective medicine, and if given in time
will prevent serious results. It never fails, and
is pleasant to take. Every household should
have a bottle on hand. Get it today. Cham-
berlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy taken at
the first unusual looseness of the bowels will
save suffering and anxiety—and loss of both
ime and money.
Take It With You.
The importance of having a bottle of Cham-
berlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy with
there is realised by experienced travellers, as
this medicine cannot be bought on the train or
steamship. Change of water and diet often
deranges tire stomach and bowels and produces
diarrhoea. As Chamberlain’s Colic and
Diarrhoea Remedy is the most reliable medicine
in use for these ailments, care should be taken
to have a bottle always on hand. Attacks of
bowel trouble nearly always come on suddenly
ana when this remedy is at hand all danger
p:.ay be avoided.
Be Firm.
When you ask for a bottle of Chamberlain’s
Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy, do not be per-
suaded to take anything else. Be firm in your
conviction that there is nothing so good. This
medicine has been tested in the most severe
cases of cramp, colic, dysentery and diarrhoea,
and has never been known to fail. “ Can be
depended upon” is an expression always used
in connection with Chamberlain’s Colic and
Diarrhoea Remedy. One bottle goes a long
way towards relieving suffering humanity. It
never fails to give immediate and permanent
relief.
BOOKS I BOOKS! BOOKS! FOR EVERYBODY!
The Book of Nature
A FULL AND EXPLICIT EXPLANATION
OF ALL THAT CAN OR OUGHT TO BE
KNOWN BY
MAN and WOMAN,
INTENDED ESPECIALLY FOR
THE MARRIED, OR THOSE IN-
TENDING TO MARRY.
By L. M. BYRN, M.D.
A PRACTICAL COMPLETE
FAMILY DOCTOR.
No such Complete Panorama of the Mysteries
of Human Reproduction has ever before been
given to the world.
DR BYRN’S ILLUSTRATED EDITION
(1917 ISSUE) IS THE ONLY GENUINE
BOOK. ASK FOR IT, AND TAKE NO
OTHER. PRICE:
TWO SHILLINGS & SIXPENCE.
POST FREE.
Live and Learn, 2/-. How to Get Rich,
1/6 posted. Dr. Lamartine’s Silent Friend,
1/6. Ned Donnelly’s Art op Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, 1/6. How to
Dance, 1/6 posted. How to Wrestle, 1/6.
Moll Flanders (a rare book by Defoe), 1/3
posted. Thurston’s Card Tricks, 1/3. All
Zola’s, including Nana, 2/6 each posted.
Educating the Horse, 1/3. Ventriloquism
Made Easy, 1/3. Up-to-date Comic Reciter,
1/6 posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/3. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 6/6 posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, 1/3, and ail the Rational Press Reprints
(send for list). Tea Cop Fortune Telling, 1/3.
How -to Make Yoor Will, 1/3. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 2/3. The Australian Truit
Gardener, 1/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/6. Par-
lor Tricks and Games, 1/6. Fortune-Telling
by Cards, 1/9. Life (a book for Men and Women
of To-dav), 2/-. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales,
1/9. Tricks & Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/6.
Beauty's Secrets, 1/6 post free. Night of lemp-
tation, 2/-. How to Make Love, 1/3 post free.
Fowler's Science of Life, 12/6. Australian
Miners' Guide (simple tests for minerals), 4/-.
Mahomet’s Fortune-Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price 1/-, posted 1/3.
How to Become Quick at Figures, 1/3. Will
Power (Personal Magnetism), posted 1/-. San-
dow's Book of Strength posted, 4/-. Car-
lisle’s Freemasonry, 6/3 posted. Daughters
of Ismael, 2/6. History of the Rod Flagella-
tions and the Flagellants (scarce), 15/-.
Practical Gas and Oil Engine Handbook. 5/6.
Motor Mechanics, 3/9. Motor Manual
(latest), 3/6. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 1/-
and 2/3. God and My Neighbor, 9d. How
to Read Faces, 2/-. Adventures of a Sydney
Barmaid, 1/-. Colonial Horse Doctor, 2/-.
French Polishing and Staining, 2/3. Photog-
raphy Self-taught, 1/6. How to Make
Sweets, Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks
with Coins, 1/3 posted. House Painting and
Papering, 2/3. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
12/6. Australian Pastrycooks’ Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/6 posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/6. How to Read Faces
and Heads, 2/-. Soldering, Brazing, etc.,
2/3 posted. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/9. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; 1/3 posted.
Camille, 1/6 posted. Piano Tuning and Repair-
ing, 2/3. Modern Etiquette, 1/3. Uuyi.e s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), 1/6. How
to Mesmerise. 2/-. Man from Snowy River,
4/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/3 posted. Parlor
Magic, 1/3 posted. The White Slave Traffic,
1/3. Every Man His Own Carpenter, 1/6.
Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator,
1/1. Secret History of the Court of Eng-
land, 2/-. Letter-Writer Up-to-date, 1/6
posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, 1/6 posted. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-; 1/2
posted. Electricity Made Simple (new), 6/-.
The Confectioner’s Handbook, 1/6. Sexual
Knowledge for Everybody (with plates), 6/6
posted. How to Shine in Society, 1/6.
Cabinetmakers’ Handybook, 2/-. Complete
Bookkeeping, 2/6. Life of Deeming, illus-
trated, 1/1. How McDougall Topped the
Score, and Other Verses, 1/3. French
Self Taught, 1/3. Wannan's Engine-
driver’s Guide. 6/- posted. Decameron of Boc-
caccio 4/6 each, posted, Lee s Priceless
Recipe’s, 2/- posted. Women’s Secrets, 1/-
posted. Gay Life in Melbourne, 1/- posted.
Secrets of Beauty, Health and Long Life
(50,000 sold), 2/- posted. A Bed of Roses, 4/6.
All These Prices Post Paid.
Established 30 Years.
DON’T BE FOOLED
INTO PAYING MORE.
New Tricks with Cards, 1/6. Sappho, genu-
ine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs. 1/3 posted. Dr.
Milford's Midwife’s Handbook, 92 practical
Send stamp for my
BIG ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
illustrations, 3/-. Aiiistotle, 5/-. Adam Lind-
say Gordon's Poems, 1/9. Practical Palm-
istry, 2/-. Guide to Auctioneering, 3/6.
Lovers' Letter-writer, 1/6. All About Incu-
bators, 2/3. Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed,
Key to All Degrees, New Edition, 1/9 posted.
Vest-pocket Dictionary, 1/6 posted. Tokology,
10/6 posted. Ingersoll’s Works, 1/3, 2/-. How
to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 2/- posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Wife, 3/9 posted. Bread
and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-boilers' Assist-
ant, 2/-. The Wife’s Handbook, 1/3 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, 1/- posted. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness
and its Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster's Large
Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus.,
leather bound, my price, 20s. post paid. (Why
pay 3 and 4 guineas?). Bootmaking and Repair-
ing, 2/3. Dynamos and Electric Motors, 2/3.
Moore's Universal Assistant and Complete
Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 12/6 posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, 1/3 posted.
Henry Lawson's Humorous Verses. 1/3. The
Age of Reason, by Paine, 1/3 posted. Rasputin,
the Monk of Evil 2/9. One Day, 1/3 posted. The
Wizard’s Manual, 1/3. Speeches from the
Dock, 2/-. Life’s Shop Window, 2/-. Three
Weeks, 2/- posted. The Escaped Nun, 2/-. Six
Women (by Victoria Cross), 2/-. The Black
Prophet, 5/3. Tom Jones (Fielding), 3/-. Aus-
tralian Miners and Prospectors’ Guide, 2/-.
Adventures of John Johns, 2/6.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, the big book store, 67 §69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
im~BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.


CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
At the War.
Jlltl
N
- »TL -
&
.. Vv\\ \
38
H.
fif/--? -N
fjk
otj: -
/?
a
c
o
XS
7i
m
mv
<&****
10*
n
v.
m
ws
,- s
tig
/A/
/
■" ■
*6o*3*
ME
8«#
v?y
A
7
✓*,
sy n
A
"K.
, \ 'U
\ \ v>*
.S*'
~V
v 1 ifi
i f/«
liS :• H
I
i
ipi
n
: •■;
i iur*s* >
fl
-XV-
$ I
v.* ■■
71 m
■#
l§Bs
NS
-X-
- r/3«
lifc
Y‘
•■!***»!
SKr
V
iiM
A A
WM
wAA
S^ffc;
Ssgfe
SSvui/
iT.;•>■>Jrv.
~y.v?f=>*
tSjVfe
' fegr;;
\
/ \
■“sas.
VCTSSS?
a
ilsrisii
>£ x ,-.
ggHpffi
3fe^
€€
Cobra,” Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Changes planes
While in the blue.
I hrough the sky
The two ’planes go,
One above and
One below.
Chunder, hanging
7 o o
By his hands,
Drops —and on the
Lower stands!
Good old “COBRA”
Clean and quick !
That’s a bonzer
Sort of trick!


\
\
%
dii ill m
fg
1 I
M <» Kta
9*i
V>%
gfj
>•*s
a
g\
Australian
WOOLLEN
RUGS
SPLENDID VALUE
251-
PRESENT season lias been marked by a great
scarcity of travelling rugs —in fact, at certain
periods they have been unprocurable. An order
placed many months ago has just arrived. Being late
in season they are now offered at special price of 25/-,
which is 10/- less than their present wholesale price.
These rugs are unobtainable elsewhere. Quality, weight,
weave and design all emphasise the exceptional standard
of value offered. Made from good-quality Australian
Crossbred Wool, dark fawn ground with bars and checks
to tone, and overcheck of dark brown or red. Size
80 by 64 inches. Weight 41b. Woven for wear with
fine, fleecy finish, assuring extra warmth.
We Pay Carriage.
David cJones
SYDNEY
Opp. G. P. 0.,
Tel- City 6336.
(16 lines).
rr
cess
WM
sN
. • *>»-.
V
Leaves riveting,
seaming and
fire welding
miles behind.
ONE boy operating a Thomson
Spot Welding Machine can do
= as much work as five men
working by old-fashioned methods.
In spot welding there are no holes
to punch, no rivets used, and the
finished article is stronger and
more attractive from a selling point
of view.
Thomson Spot Welders show a saving in
operation of from 60 to 90 per cent. If you are
producing metal goods from sheet, bar or pipe
by fire welding or any other old-time process,
let us show you, without obligation, how you
can increase your profits by installing a Thomson Electric Welding Machine. It abolishes skilled
labor, and enables you to produce higher-grade articles at surprising spe.d and low cost.
Send us samples or sketches of the articles you produce, or intend producing, and we will place some in-
teresting figures before you.
We are Sole Agents also for Better Class Machine Tools, such as Le Blond
Lathes, South Bend Lathes, Warner and Swasey Turret Lathes, Gisholt
Turret Lathes, Prentice Radial Drills, Landis Screwers, Heald Grinders,
Gardner Grinders, etc. Catalogue and all particulars of any of these tools
forwarded on request by
BENSON BROTHERS Ltd.
76-78 Liverpool Street, Sydney. 71-75 Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne.
138 Currie Street, Adelaide. C 224.
SAMUEL GRIFFITH.
Samuel Walker Griffith, a man of Welsh
origin who had stalked uprightly before his
fellows ever since 1845, passes from public
view with his retirement from the post of
Federal Chief Justice. A B.A. at 18, a bar-
rister at 23, M.A. at 25, an Attorney-General
at 29, a Q.C. at 31, Premier of Queensland
at 38 and Chief Justice of the same State at
48, there was no procrastination about him.
It is easier to remember what he wasn’t than
what he was: a scholar who took up first
mathematics, then classics, and finally
modern languages; a barrister of two
States (Victoria and N. S. Wales) besides
his own State; a Minister whose career
spread with intervals from 1874 to 1893; a
Lieutenant-Governor; President of the old
abortive Federal Council; two kinds of
knight; a member of the Judicial Committee
of the British Privy Council, and the first
Chief Justice of the Federal High Court. He
drafted the Queensland Criminal Code in his
spare time, of which he hadn’t any.
Griffith was a frequent Minister, though it
can’t be said that he was a great one. He
advocated the division of the unwieldy State
into three parts, but didn’t carry it out. He
managed to save a bit of Papua from Ger-
man domination, but it was his predecessor,
Mcllwraith, who woke the sleeping Colonial
Office in London and took the bull by the
horns —being a cattle-man, among other
things, Mcllwraith did it quite naturally—
when he hoisted the flag in 1883 and annexed
everything outside the Dutch limit. The
tottering department in London disavowed
his act, but a sensation had been created,
and a big advertisement sent abroad, and
Griffith had an easy task when he persuaded
the weary London institution, in 1884, to
partly reconsider its decision. The part of
its decision which it didn’t reconsider let the
Hun into Papua. Lord Derbv was the man
in charge then —a learned man whose fear of
being premature was a disease.
Griffith was in favor of private land-grant
railways at first, but bitterly hostile later on.
Also he was more or less opposed to Kanaka
immigration, yet almost the last act of his
Premiership was to pass a law for extending
the duration of the business. Politically lid
was rather like Derby.
While Griffith and Mcllwraith were in
opposite camps the robust cattle- and sheep-
men who used strong language—Arthur
Palmer’s language was wonderful —and
whose heads smoked visibly at banquets,
gravitated towards Mcllwraith. The rect-
angular, fish-blooded men who drank mild
liquids, in public at least, and didn’t “shout,”
and hadn’t a cuss about them, tended to-
wards Griffith. The Mcllwraith following
to a great extent went broke in ’93 and
thereabouts, for they were cheerful gamblers
and men with the joy of life (and liquor) in
their veins. The Griffith following pulled
through better, a great part of it having its
savings buried in the back yard. As an inci-
dent, it was this thoughtful, methodical
crowd which made a beginning of real
machine politics in Queensland. Before that
there had been crude devices like the tearing
up of voting-papers and the giving of a
black eye to the other fellow; but the astute
party manager, like Schnadhorst, who in-
vented the Liberal caucus in England, came
to pass in the Griffith days, and the Griffith
party owned the manager.
When Charles Lilley was virtually pulled
down from the Queensland Chief Justiceship
after giving an irrelevant decision which
maddened more landowners —Mcllwraith
among them —than he could face, Griffith
quitted the Premiership and took the vacant
place. He might be said to have appointed
•himself, but the position was his by right
of intelligence. When, in 1903, he retired,
after 10 years, to become Federal Chief
Justice, he gave up a good billet for a
worse one, for Judges of the Federal High
Court got no pensions. Therefore if they
were poor men they had to die in harness
like the brilliant and generous Richard
O’Connor, who couldn’t afford to retire when
retirement might have saved his life.
Griffith took the new position because he
frankly admitted to himself that he was
head and shoulders above every other appli-
cant. Other people admitted it also, so
there was a beautiful unanimity. The result
has been summed up in this way: If Griffith
and Isaacs were with the majority which
gave the verdict it wasn’t much use to
appeal to the Privy Council. If Griffith
and Isaacs were in the minority which was
over-ruled, then an appeal was a legitimate
investment. Supposing Griffith and Isaacs
disagreed, as they often did, then an appeal
was a toss-up. Other members might be
variable, but the legal fraternity regarded
the Welshmen and the Jew as good horses
to back.
So Samuel Griffith leaves a big reputation
behind him. After all, law, not politics, was
his job, and he knew his job from A to Z.
He would have known even more than he
did, only the alphabet finishes at Z.
JAMES EDMOND.
“Sarn-Major”: To really appreciate the
Australian slanguage you need to hear it
far from home. Arriving at a small French
village where I fancied no other Australian
had been. I went into a shop to get a sou-
venir. I made my choice and asked
mademoiselle the price. She quoted a rea-
sonable figure; but I at once proceeded to
tell her, in my best French, that I could
get it at half that price in Australia. She
shrugged and smiled, then threw “Come off
the grass, Digger!” at me.
“Dam”: “The Story of No. 5” (B.
7/8/T9) sets me thinking about battlefield
luck and forebodings. The boys invariably
went into the line feeling that “what has
to be will be.” Before we went into Ypres
(Sept., T 7) a cobber gave a couple of us his
wife’s address. He said: “You’ll need it.
I’m going to get my full issue this time.”
We buried him near Polygon Wood, and
sent a letter to the address he gave us.
Many of our boys disregarded shells for this
very reason; and it led to more casualties
than there would have been had ordinary
precautions been taken. Yet I believe it
made the Aussies more solid; for if they had
ducked for every shell that burst in the
vicinity their punch would have been weak-
ened.


TARANTULLE
THE QUALITY COTTON FABRIC FOR HOME-SEWN LINGERIE AND BABY-WEAR
REGD.
All genuine Tarantulle is name-stamped
on the selvedge ‘Buy none without.
«/ry l
Li f \
A
w
jdutqi
A
N
v
w
s_^
W/HEN you buy Tarantulle you get a materia!
that really will wash It may cost you a few
pence extra, but those pence are your guarantee
against all the usual wash-tub disappointments.
Tarantulle is perfectly woven from the finest cotton
in the world, and free from filling. It remains
always the same soft, fine, snowy, fascinating
material—a delight to sew and to wear. Invaluable
. also for sweet little baby clothes.
40 inches wide, in Three Weights —
Standard 2 / 3, Fine 216, and Super-
fine 219 per yard. Name on selvedge .
OTHER TOOTAL GUARANTEED
FABRICS
Each carries its own name on selvedge.
TOBRALCO {Retd ) The Cotton Wash Dress Fabric in
world-wide use 27/28 inches wide. Self-white and
_. _ inde]ible_colors. 2/6 per yard.
NAMRIT-the indelible Voile. Double Width-40 inches
wide. White and Indelible Colors, 3/6 per yard,
per yard! ~ ,
TOOTAL PIQUE Double width. 43/44 inches wide.
Superior soft, and subtle, specially strengthened
between ribs. White and indelible colors 5/6 per
yard
TOOTAL SHIRTING for ladies' and children’s wear
32 inches wide Woven indelible color stripes.
TOOTAL SHIRTS FOR MEN made of Tootal
Shirting
TOOTAL CLOTH The Guaranteed Velvet Fabric.
Plain and Cord. 27 inches wide.
ALSO
PYRAMID HANDKERCHIEFS (<Regd.) for MEN.
Correct self-white and exclusive color border
designs. Pyramid label on each. 1/4J each.
LISSUE HANDKERCHIEFS <R,gd.) for LADIES -Ex-
quisite self-white and indelible color border designs.
Lissue label on each. I/- each.
TOOTAL
GUARANTEED
\ .COTTON ~ h
TO BE HAD OF ALL STORES
TOOTAL BROADHURST LEE CO., LTD., MANCHESTER, ENGLAND
All Communications to: —
G.P.O. Box 1035. MELBOURNE
Business, Bobbery, etc.
“Vineleaf” : Add these appropriate trading
names to the list given by “Juekar” (B.
31/7/’l9). When I lived in Duuolly ( Vie.)
a few years ago these signs were up: Tuck-
field, grocer; Mrs. Mellon, fruiterer; Brandie,
hotelkeeper; Woods, carpenter; Strike, black-
smith ; and Rayson, smallgoods baker. But
Rose, bootmaker; Herring, solicitor; Gather-
cole, butcher; and Barber, stonemason, were
obviously in the wrong jobs.
S’Africa’s wool industry owes much to
stud sheep imported from Australia, but the
country had an eye for studs before Australia
was colonised. In a letter, lately offered for
sale in London for £lO5 and written at the
Cape on November 20, 1770, to Sir Joseph
Banks, Captain Cook complained:
The honest Dutchmen of this place were very near
depriving me of all my English sheep. I had leave
from the Governor to keep them on shore near our
tents, where they were confined every night. One
night, rather darker than common, they turned some
dogs in among them, that killed four and dispersed
the rest, most of which were driven off, especially
the rams and ewes. After making some noise and
being at some expense in bribing one villain to rob
another of what was not his own, I got them all
again but two ewes, which 1 could never hear the
least account of. The greatest scoundrel of them
all could not deny but it was done with a design
to get the rams and ewes, and I have very good
reason to believe that some of the best people in
the place were concerned in it.
Blasphemy this last sentence would be, of
course, if it wasn’t that these people were
Dutch and not English.
“Silas Snell” : The collapse of mining has
given Ballarat a dull thud, and the
town outside Sturt-street has a pathetic
appearance of premature decay. I went
along the Iladdon-road the other day,
returning to the haunts of my childhood. I
remembered -the Haddon-road as roaring with
traffic. It was down this road that
the hairy teamsters came blaspheming in
epics, with loads of timber for the mines, and
out along the same highway the white trades-
men in their traps and the eager Chow
vendors with their baskets went scurrying
to meet the needs of men in a hundred little
mines. Wells drove me, and in four miles
we passed nothing but a youth sit-
ting on a fence. He summed up sufficient
energy to address us. “Who's dead?” said
he. Wells replied that nobody in particu-
lar was dead to his knowledge. “Well,
you’re the third what’s passed this mornin’,”
explained the youth on the fence. What else
but a funeral could produce such a commotion?
* * * *
“Beachcomber”: The making of potash
from kelp has been going on for years in a
small way in the Speck, down Southport
way. Recently a committee of the Institute
of Science has got from the kelp a product
suitable for making electrical insulators (nou-
breakable) as well as buttons and such small
deer. This stuff turns perfectly in a lathe
and takes a high polish.
Australia’s first serious crop of sugar was
grown at Port Macquarie (N.S.W.). In
1820 John Gyles, an ex-missionary at Tahiti,
visited the port, and declared that it would
furnish an excellent site for a sugar-cane
plantation. He reckoned that with a little
Government assistance he could by 1825 be
turning out 400 or 500 tons of sugar and
32,000 gallons of rum a year. Governor
Macouarie referred the matter to Lord
Bathurst, and nothing came of it at that
time. But the project went on, and by 1834
a considerable quantity of sugar was being-
produced at the old settlement.
Hitherto Australia has sent its kangaroo-
skins untanned to the United States, where
it is alleged that they have been used for
boot leather. Now Sydney Public Library,
after experiment, has satisfied itself that
they would make the finest bookbinding
material in the world, and if it can get
them tanned locally to its liking it proposes
to use them instead of calf.
Colin J. Stewart on a decimal coinage:—
The folly of our monetary system has constantly
forced itself upon my notice during the last four
years spent in foreign lands. “Canada,” remarks
“Clingstone” (B. 17/7/’l9), “has a metric system.”
One might add: So have the United States, France,
Belgium, and, in fact, with the exception of Great
Britain and ourselves, every civilised race in the
world. Even the crude Gyppo has his piastres. Yet
we are content to struggle along with our clumsy,
obsolete tangle.
But I think “Clingstone” is mistaken in asking
that the half-sovereign be made the unit. Every-
thing seems to me to indicate that we should work
with 4s. as the basis of our calculations. This might
well be named a dollar.
(1) The adoption of this principle would cause
the minimum of derangement to our present coinage.
The gold sovereign, as a $5 piece, would still be
our standard, and most of the coins now in use
could remain in circulation.
(2) The sum of 4s. is the unit which most nearly
corresponds to the dollar (4s. i2d.) at present in use
in Canada and the United States—not a negligible
consideration in these days of travel and international
trade.
(3) It is essential in a decimal coinage that the
lowest coin be in itself a complete unit. We are
still, apparently, in need of a coip of the approxi-
mate value of a halfpenny. If the cent be the
1-Iooth part of 10s. it is too big; if, on the other
hand, it be the l-100th part of 45.-—well, the half-
penny is l-96th, and the difference is not great.
I suggest this plan:—
(а) Produce a large number of $1 bills (it would
be unnecessary to have a silver dollar: there are
very few in circulation in Canada or the States)
and lc. pieces, only to be paid out in exchange for
the coins that are to be withdrawn.
(б) Issue a proclamation that after a specified
date the decimal system of coinage shall be adopted
and all accounts altered accordingly, the sov-
ereign, half-sovereign, florin and shilling to remain
in circulation as $5, $2.50, half-dollar, and quarter
respectively, the half-crown, sixpence, threepence
and coppers to be exchanged at the banks for the
equivalent number of cents.
(e) Buy the coins that are to be withdrawn from
the banks at their equivalent value (two half-crowns =
$1.25, etc.), stamp new values on the coins thus
bought, changing the half-penny to lc., the three-
pence to 5c., and the sixpence to 10c., and reissue
them. The fact that the stamping slightly lowers
the value of the coin would avoid any danger of
counterfeit. We should then have sufficient coins to
carry on with, and the old coins could be replaced
at leisure.
# * * *
„ Victoria has at least one sizeable run left.
Up in the extreme Nor’-West the Ned’s Cor-
ner I’rop’y, Ltd., a 8. Aus. co., holds on lease
093,114 acres, or 1000-odd square miles, with
a Murray frontage—mostly mallee land, for
which it pays £2785 a year in rent. But it
is small potatoes compared with the old-time
Tyntynder run in the North-West. This had
a frontage of 300 miles to the Murray and
ran back as much as 70 miles. And there
is likely to be some more cutting-up in Sep-
tember. when numerous big leases out that
way fall in.
* # ♦ «
“U.P.”: After five years’ experimenting at
the Kuitpo Forest Reserve under 11. 11. Cor-
bin, lecturer in Forestry (S.A.). it has been
proved that a wattle-tree can be skinned and
still be almost as good as new. The practice
hitherto has been to cut down the trees close
to the ground after stripping, which has'
meant a new planting and a five-year wait
for a new crop. In the Kuitpo experiments
the trees have been coppiced at the proper
time of the year, and within two years the
new growth has attained the same propor-
tions as the original tree, and yielded a
similar crop.
* * * *
“Wage Slave’’: Broken Hill A.M.A. has
always maintained strict, discipline over its
members while they were alive; now it
insists on a man being a staunch unionist
until he is six feet underground. The
A.M.A. provides funeral benefits |for ite
members. Until recently the relatives of
the deceased could nominate the undertaker
they preferred. Then there was a strike
of carpenters, and, because the heads
reckoned that certain of the master ghouls
were not observing union conditions, out
came the mandate: “Be buried by a ‘white’
undertaker, or we will not pay your ex-
penses.”
“Ragar” : Sardines—imported, of course—
are 94d. per tin in Australia now, yet when
I was cruising through Torres Strait in
June I saw the water thick with the small
fish. Acres and acres of them were spread
around the edges of the reefs and along the
shores of the islands in shallow water.
The natives catch them by simply making a
small basket of eocoanut-leaf, Avading in
among them, and with one scoop getting
enough for the family—two or three hundred
fish. From sun-up to sun-down sea-birds
and snapper, rock-cod, coral-cod, white-fish,
king-fash and others feed on them, but the
quantities never seem to grow less. Dry-
fried they are as tasty as any fish that
swims. There’s a fortune for the man who
hits on the right way to preserve them. The
job could almost be done on the boats. The
beche-de-mer is treated on the luggers, also
the trochas. If these fish can be smoked
and boiled why can’t sardines be canned?
“L.A.B. ': On a recent visit to Honolulu I
saw in the biggest retail grocer’s a great dis-
P ,* v . of Australian jam. A window was
failed with it. I went in and asked the
manager to explain how this was, seeing
that the stand was 21 days from Australia
and only seven from the renowned California
supplies. The manager assured me that he
* could sell as much Australian jam as he
could get (this shipment was 800 cases),
the quality and flavor being so much superior
to the Californian. Ilis only regret was
that the Australian manufacturer handi-
capped his goods in competition with the
American by putting such unattractive labels
on them.
“D.F.” : The first industrial undertaking in
the Newcastle region was that of Hugh
Meehan, who was master of the Spanish
prize Anna Josepha after she had been
bought by Simeon Lord, of Sydney. In May,
1801, 3J years after the discovery of the
Hunter River by Lieut. Shortland, Meehan
took the Anna Josepha up to get a cargo of
coals and qedar. He had a sawpit at Fresh-
water Bay, on the northern side of the
harbor, and put in a month in the river.
Besides the cedar he got out 150 tons of
coal, which he sold to the master of the
Earl of Cornwallis, bound for India, at £3
a ton. This was the first overseas export
of Newcastle coal; a few months later the
Anna Josepha herself took 100 tons to Cape-
town. In June, 1801, a corporal, five pri-
vates and 12 convicts were sent to found a
settlement at Collier’s Point, Newcastle.
Three men quarried the coal and six carried
it to the waterside in baskets, the output
being about three tons a day. By November,
1801, nine tons a day was being raised, with
a five-hours bank-to-bank day. About the
end of 1801 the settlement was abandoned,
but in March. 1.804, Governor King sent
Lieut. Menzies up to form a permanent
settlement at the place, which he named New-
castle. When Grant and Paterson surveyed
the Hunter River in June, 1801, the inevit-
able castaway turned up. like Pamphlet and
Finnegan at Brisbane. This was John Loft,
one of three men wrecked in a boat belong-
ing to Underwood, of Sydney. Of the other
two one had been killed by the natives, and
the other died from eating a toad-fish.
THE JUNIOR PARTNER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I am the junior partner in a large, impo.tant firm,
A Partner in the ordinary meaning of the term.
But still, of course, a Junior, so why should 1 insist
On official recognition, like a bloated Socialist ?
My Senior Partner is, of course, a most important
gent,
And all he does receives my warm approval and
consent;
The money I invested in the firm was never meant
To benefit me in the least, and if the money went
To pay my Senior Partner’s little supper-bills and
such,
Or helped to swell his own account, I mustn’t mind
it much ;
As Junior Partner in the firm my duty is to smile
When the Senior Partner operates upon my little pile.
The Senior Partner may take risks which I would
not incur,
But that is the prerogative of status, as it were;
And I’m content to let him run the business on his
pat,
For I’m the Junior Partner, and my place is on the
mat.
TOM BEASLEY.


NON-SULPHATING STORAGE BATTERIES
:'v
L
A
i*
*
imm
it m
£
\
rrt~
VA
m
S*
m
i
nr v
SEL&
\ ?
w
m
*
Wj:\
•Tt *
' i »
■■
f
W- M;
■
\
/ . ■ • #
>' > ■■
■'?»>
4
• -
■ M
&
It
w
Si
AUSTRALIA
WAS THERE
When the Germans got back to their Hindenburg Line in September
1918, they defied the world to shift them. The Allies threw them
out in two weeks. One breach in the Line which gave big strategical
results—because it uncovered the road to the enemy’s main railways
—was made south of Cambrai by Australians and the 30th American
Division. The "doughboy” led the way and cleared a track through
the outer fortifications. Then came an incident that will live in history.
The young legions of America stood aside, cheering, while Australia’s
incomparable storming battalions swept through and finished the job
That was the last great battle in which Australians were engaged.
11l lIJ
Dependability in Service
ABSOLUTE DEPENDABILITY UNDER ADVERSE
CIRCUMSTANCES that is the summing-up of the
EVEREADY SERVICE. Whenever the utmost in depend-
ability is absolutely essential, the EVEREADY STORAGE
BATTERY " makes good.” Whether used on the battlefield
in urgently telephoning the fluctuations of attack and defence ;
EXCLUSIVE FEATURES
The construction of the EVEREADY Storage Battery comprises many new
features .not found in other types. The plates used (in addition to having
staggered ribs with keystone locking design and grid, and being made of pure
antimony-lead) are cast with feet on bottoms of plates which rest alternately on
tops of the four bridges in hard rubber jars. A
in the timed firing of mines ; in driving the chief-of-staff’s fast
car; in the rigour of the motor transport’s heavy service ;
in these, and in the kindred other uses in which batteries
were used—the EVE READY Battery has demonstrated its
absolute dependability under the rigorous demands. Is it any
wonder, then, that the E VERE ADY stands pre-eminent to-day ?
The EVEREADY Storage Battery is made of the best materials the markets
can furnish. The handles furnished with these Batteries are designed to fit all
kinds of hold-down arrangements.
A DEFINITE GUARANTEE
Each EVEREADY STORAGE BATTERY is soldwith a definite guarantee
against ruinous sulphation.
6-Volt regular long assembly of plates
NSW AGENTS:
MOODY Si CO.
343 KENT STREET, SYDNEY
VICTORIAN AGENTS:
HOLLAND PROPRIETARY LTD.
17 McKILLOP ST., MELBOURNE
V
m
m
EHJ. 4
12-Volt regular long assembly of plates
ITHOMPSON, MEGGITT & CO. LTD.I
~FACTO^^EPRESE^^nVE^DAI^^^^G^P^BUimiNGS^^NEY


A CONTRACT IS A CONTRACT
CHEMICALS.
OUR business is primarily that of exporting American
chemicals —heavy and fine pharmaceutical products and dyes.
We are manufacturers of caustic soda, soda ash, chloride of
lime, carbon tetrachloride, bichromate of soda, epsom salts,
permanganate of potash and carbon bisulphide.
Pharmaceuticals, fine chemicals and drugs—standardised and
repacked in retail containers at our own plant.
Dyes—Our Pyramid Aniline Colors represent quality, not
cheapness.
Importers of raw materials for American industries, oils, foodstuffs, etc.
BUSH, BEACH & GENT, Inc.,
80 Maiden Uane, Holbrook Building;,
New York, U.S.A. San Francisco.
Gable Address (Both Offices) “Beachfred.”
iimmiiimimMuiMiiuiinmmiiiimiiiiimiiimimmmimuimiimmmmimiimiimimmnlimmillUlllllHl
BUSH, BEACH & GENT me.
New York - SanFrancisco.U.BA.
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiKiiiitiitniiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiifi iiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
d
The Self-Filling
Safety Fonntain
fills itself instantly
from any ink supply
—cleans itself in
filling—and cannot
leak.
Ask for ONOTO INK-
Best for all pens.
d
Price 17/-. also
Onoto Valve-
less for those who
do not want a Self-
Filling Safety Pen 12/6
and upwards of all Sta-
tioners, Jewellers, and
Stores.
Manufacturers : Thos. De La
Rue & Co., Ltd., Bunhill Row,
London, E.C. <r-
Managing Agents : Norman Baker &
Longhurst, Sydney & Melbourne.
A Way They Have in the Army.
SO I used to shout carelessly, on con-
vivial occasions, before I ever thought
of being in one. In those days I
vaguely credited the Army with a number of
qualities, such .as intense modesty and
reticence (“Act, don’t talk, my boy”), pro-
found knowledge of mysterious things like
engineering, mathematics, sanitation and so
on; and, above all, commonsense (“My dear
feller, successful warfare is chiefly a matter
of everyday intelligence in a developed
form”). Disillusion came early. As a
gunner I began with a hound-like trust in
the capacity of my battery captain. We had
been training for some weeks and it was
decided to have a Field Day; to bring the
battery into action; institute an 0.P.; de-
cide on a target (a chimney three miles
away was selected) ; work out an entire
“stunt”; and open fire. (Luckily we had
no ammunition; the bombardment was to
consist in pulling the firing-levers of the
guns as ordered.) My idol rode forth with
his glittering staff of subalterns, flag-
waggers and other assistants. He reached
the sky-line and there (God knows why!)
climbed a tree. About an hour passed, dur-
ing which his retainers galloped about, got
on and off their horses, and in general made
themselves suicidally conspicuous. The
angles started to come down. Eagerly we
put them on the guns, turned wheels, and
tore at the traversing-levers. The B.L.’s
calculations were complete. We waited for
the order to fire, while he descended from
the tree, mounted (in full view of the
enemy) and, followed by his subordinates,
thundered in our direction. For one tense
moment he inspected the results of his efforts
and then he uttered a wild, despairing exple-
tive. All the guns were pointed full upon the
brigade mess-tent, from the open flank of
which the C.O. could be seen emerging with
the intention of visiting us!
I was for a great deal of my time in
France with a Brigade Ammunition Col-
umn. The object in life of all hands was to
get out of the B.A.C. and into a battery. It
offered few chances of distinction or excite-
ment ; and it was worried more than any
other unit in the brigade on general prin-
ciples. lI.Q. remembered the B.A.C. every
now and then with a stab of impatience and
decided that Pan-Germanism would triumph
unless it was immediately “straightened up,”
as the phrase went. In consequence we had
a great variety of O.C.’s. They all found
the methods of their predecessors not only
imbecile but ruinous to discipline, opposed
to every tradition of sound soldiering, and
calculated to lose the war if persevered in.
Hence an astonishing amount of naif bragga-
docio. Each fresh O.C. justified the tre-
mendous reforms he was about to institute
by wearisome stories of his achievements as
a disciplinarian and a handler of men. As
a junior subaltern I had to iisten—or appear
to. Whilst doing so I mostly used to muse
on the probable fate of my superiors when
they got back to the open competition, soci-
ally speaking, of civil life. The, neglect,
even insult, they would encounter ! I idly
pictured them hiring listeners. What would
be the fee? A shilling an hour, ten shil-
lings, a sovereign? With a start I would
wake up to something like this: “Hi was
Sar’-Major at the time—though, as the
Colonel always said —and ’e knoo his job,
too, fer a C.M.F. Colonel —Hi was really
in charge of the Battery. The Major was
a decent feller, but a Dud. No Brain, if
you understand me. Well, I remember this
cove coming to me and ’e says: ‘Sar’-Major,
no one but you can win the brigade shoot
for the battery next Sattiday at Geelong.
Will you do it?’ ’e says. ‘No!’ says I
I was always one for open sneaking—‘No,’
I says, ‘l’m going to win it next Sattiday
fer me old battery’ (that was the Ump-
teenth, y’ know, wot I’d been with when lan
Hamilton reviewed us). ‘And,’ I says, ‘yer
can take it or leave it.’ Just like that—
sharp-like. ‘But,’ I says, ‘l’ll win yer the
second place if yer like.’ And I did. Me
old battery first; the noo one second. My
word, it give ’em all a surprise, I tell yer.
Put a bit more wood in the stove there and
tell that damn orderly-sergeant, to get the
snow off his boots next time ’e comes in.”
One would expect drastic reforms to fol-
low 7 in the wake of such a man. Not at all! ;
The procedure was invariable in the case of
each fresh O.C. He used to ride into the
camp, followed, Sancho Panza-like, by his
groom, and wearing the expression of one 1
who has unexpectedly blundered upon ‘ an
untended drain. He would look gloomily at 1
stray tins and scrutinise the hide of the •
nearest animal for signs of mange. After 1
pushing the hair about a little he always <
ostentatiously cleansed his hands, usually 1
with a slight shudder. Then he repaired to 1
the mess, “took over,” made preparations
for the morrow, and settled down to a heart- '
to-heart skite which was deliberately put
over us on the same principle as a barrage
—to keep our heads down. Everyone knew
what to expect at the 9 a.m. parade next
day. The new O.C. would stalk through
the mud, and arrange his features into an
expression of scandalised dismay as the
orderly-officer called the unit to attention.
It w T as a look which plainly said: “Don’t
tell me these are soldiers , because the thing’s
incredible.” lie would then stand the men
at ease, and tell them that a more disgrace-
ful spectacle of untidiness, dirt, indiscipline
and disorder lie had never witnessed; and
that he refused to inspect them. The men
didn’t mind; the officers didn’t mind, and
the only person who might have objected
(that is, the previous 0.C.) being then
happily on his way to a battery all parties
were satisfied. The parade dispersed and
matters proceeded as before, until a new
“straightener-up” materialised.
An 0.0. has the same liability to make
an ass of himself that a Kaiser has; and it
is intensified by the fact that he, in his
turn, has Kaisers over him. Sucb a posi-
tion necessitates the frequent assumption of
non-existent knowledge and capacity, and,
as above mentioned, it encourages boasting
—the two things by which mankind is
chiefly made absurd. An unduly ambitious
man, a vain man or one who has not pre-
viously wielded much authority is in great
peril. One of my O.C.’s specialised in
clean harness. Someone had once praised
a set of harness that he had been associated
with, and the effect never wore off. One
gathered from his statements that there was
no other man in Europe to match him in
his chosen line. In order to maintain this
reputation the unit practically went out of
the fighting business and addressed itself to
steel- and leather-polishing. Harness in-
spections occurred daily. Brizes, in the form
of leave, were given to sections and sub-
sections with the most presentable sets.
Men produced bridles from their pockets
during meals, and gave neck-chains their
final burnish in bed after “lighfs out.” No
particular interest was taken in the animals
that were to wear the glittering stuff; and
the men’s “bivvies” grew more and more
insanitary. Fritz began an offensive, and
our area was one of those selected for bom-
bardment. The Adjutant suggested shifting
elsewhere. The Enthusiast bitterly objected.
There was “no cover for the harness” at
the only other place available. What would
happen to the harness? It would “go hack!”
Typical martial commonsense in view of the
fact that a set of harness costs £10; a
horse from £GO to £BO (a fully-trained one
was worth then up to £150) ; while the value
of a trained man was incalculable!
Another warrior favored shiny boots, clean
tunics and white lanyards in all circum-
stances. It was easy enough to provide such
things in Belgium during the hush which
preceded the Hun’s last Spring offensive.
But when we hurried to the Somme Nissen
huts were left behind and replaced by ruined
billets and open chalk-fields. Our O.C. was
one of those who talk largely of the priva-
tions of war, but take particular care to
avoid , them. On this occasion he settled down
in one of the most comfortable cellars in
the village, while the men spent the night
under G.S. waggons in the chalk a quar-
ter of a mile outside it. Fresh from a
pleasant rest and a good breakfast, we fol-
lowed the O.C. on to the parade next morn-
ing. It was a lamentable sight. The Diggers
looked more like Pierrots than artillerymen.
Our leader began the usual old comminu-
tion service. However, the boys were in no
mood for rebuke. Hardly had he delivered
himself of the statements that the parade
was “a disgrace,” that “not a man seemed
to have polished his boots,” that he “wasn’t
going to stand this sort of thing,” and that
“if they tried it on one like him they would
rue it to their dying day’’—hardly had he
emitted these good old platitudes when they
counted him out. It was a long time be-
fore he got over the experience; and so far
as I know he never again took the risk of
publicly addressing this unit.
The count-out, by the way, contrary to
general opinion, was rarely resorted to in
the A.1.F.; and I never heard of its being
administered without good cause. Bodies
of men who considered they had been unduly
or unfairly “messed about” employed it, and
it was also used as a corrective of cant or
humbug. That was why W. M. Hughes
achieved, it near Villers-Bretonneux. He
told the lads that he understood they were
shortly going out for “a good long rest” —a
mendacity which Birdie bad been soothing
them with for years past. He got one of
the most uproarious and unanimous count-
outs on record.
But, after all, the most conspicuous oddi-
ties occurred in the early stages of the war
and on transports. My first C.O. shaved
his head the day we left Perth. We were
only going to a suburb of Cairo to be
trained ; and, anyhow, the ship was due to
take three weeks to reach Suez. Neverthe-
less most of the officers imitated their
Colonel’s war-like gesture.
The Boy Scout side of warfare always
was a feature of transports, till recently
when the troops have been in charge of
veteran fighting soldiers. I travelled under
one old gentleman—an importer’, I believe,
when not doing transport work—who used
to issue printed addresses to the Diggers,
beginning: “The C.O. Troops to His Gallant
Men!” These compositions were on the lines
of Napoleon’s famous exhortation at Embabe
beginning: “From the summits of yonder
pyramids forty centuries behold you.” They
chiefly dealt with the necessity of not wast-
ing the ship’s water, or breaking the stand-
ing orders in regard to spitting on the decks.
There was a deal of saving humor about
the late war. It was one of the things that
made it tolerable.
10-2-4.
The Doctor’s Bit.
IN the Great War the surgeon not only
saved lives and limbs, but tackled
hideous deformities, and by unweary-
ing industry and technical skill made new
faces for old. The mutilated soldiers often
joined in the discussions as to the shape of
the new noses while their faces were being
rebuilt, and usually selected “Roman” for
preference. Incidentally, the surgeon saved
90 per cent, of the wounded, and sent SO
per cent, back to the fighting within 40 days.
The greatest medical discovery of the war
was undoubtedly the Carrel-Dakin method
of treating shell-wounds, which were 90 per
cent, of all wounds, and towards the end as
much as 98 per cent. As a result, one
surgeon, who carried out this treatment, had
to amputate only four times in 1000 con-
secutive cases of fractures of the extremities.
In operations in civil life performed by the
so-called “aseptic” method, the wound, no
matter how extensive, is sewn up without
drainage of any kind. This method was, of
course, used at first by everybody in the
war; but the results were so disastrous from
the setting-in of gas gangrene that the
method was quickly scrapped by up-to-date
men, and to Alexis Carrel, a well-known
American surgeon, who had been educated
in France, belongs the honor of successfully
defeating the gas bacillus (Bacillus gasogenes
perfringens) in the open field.
Carrel’s method was practically a return
to the “antiseptic” method initiated in Edin-
burgh over 30 years ago by Joseph Lister.
The gas generated in gas gangrene had
nothing to do with the chlorine or phosgene
sent over by Fritz in his gas attacks, but
was given out by a new organism, which re-
ceived. the name gas bacillus, found in the
over-cultivated soil of France, along with
another death-dealing comrade, the tetanus
bacillus. Both germis inhabit the intestines
of the horse. The tetanus bacillus yielded to
an antitoxin, but the gas bacillus proved a
tough proposition. First of all, it could live
without oxygen; so when it was snugl.V
ensconced in the recesses of a shell-wound
it found itself in clover, and immediately
started on its career of devastation and
death. A shell, before exploding, usually
buried its nose in the earth, and when a
fragment struck a combatant it carried into
his body myriads of tetanus and gas bacilli.
Carrel first starved and then poisoned the
invader. He discovered that the gas bacilli
could not feed on living tissues; so all
lacerated and damaged tissue was, as far as
possible, trimmed away from the depths of
a shell-wound, and in addition a quarter-of-
an-inch strip was removed from its edges
by means of a scissors or scalpel. The
wound was then held wide open and scrubbed
with pieces of gauze tied over some blunt
instrument. Having starved the bacilli,
the next thing was to poison them in the
various pockets of the wound. Eventually
an antiseptic fluid was concocted by the
American chemist Dakin which filled the
bill. This fluid was our hbmely old friend
chloride of lime or bleaching powder, toned
down so as not to injure tbe bodily tissues
to any great degree, and mixed with boric
acid.
Patients soon got comfortable when this
method was used, the fever disappearing and
the wound assuming a healthy appearance.
When the attention was possible a bacterio-
logist made a daily count of the number of
germs present in the pockets, and when
the count was low enough for safety the
wound was stitched up so as to prevent
subsequent scarring. The final result was
excellent, being almost as good as if the
wound had been immediately closed.
With regard to anti-typhoid vaccination,
so great was the success that the number of
cases was about one in 1500.
Woods Hutchinson, a famous American
hygienist, lays great stress in a recent book
on the importance of the service rendered to
the armies by the “duckboards.” They re-
minded the Tommies of the poultry-ladders at
home, hence their nickname. They prevented
the contamination of the soldiers’ feet with
foul mud, which, getting through their boots
and puttees, was a fertile source of misery,
and one of the causes of the mysterious
disease called “trench feet,” which at first
laid up 10 per cent, of the army in Flanders
and France. Another cause of this disease
was the soldier’s habit of lacing his boots
very tightly to keep his feet dry ; and with
the same object puttees were too tightly ban-
daged. By this means the venous circula-
tion in the lower extremities was impeded.
This made them swell, and the want of cir-
culation, combined with exposure to the foul
mud of the trenches, caused, as a final result,
patches of gangrene to appear, usually on
the toes and dorsum of the foot. By the
use of duckboards and duckboots, with
clean socks twice weekly, or, better, every
day, and the careful greasing of the feet
when opportunity offered, the annoying com-
plaint was gradually got rid of. Australian
soldiers, however, disliked the duckboots.
They certainly were uncomfortable, fre-
quently “drawing” the feet, and when two
or three feet of mud were encountered, they
usually stuck in it and came off. Perhaps
for this reason the Diggers had very little
faith in them as protectors against trench
feet. Australian women who knitted so
many hundreds of thousands of socks for
their sons and brothers, or other people’s
sons and brothers, are fully entitled to the
satisfaction of having done their bit. Those
stockings certainly kept hundreds of men in
the line who would otherwise have been in
the hospital, probably maimed for life.
Trench fever was another puzzle. It was
like malaria, and lasted four or five weeks,
keeping 5 per cent, of the army in the field
more or less constantly on the sick-list: the
infection in this disease was probably car-
ried by the body louse; for with better
drainage and sanitation of the trenches,
along with hot shower-baths and sterilisa-
tion of the soldiers’ garments, the disease
abated considerably. Yet the little pest was
never wholly got under; and the last
memory many an Australian will have of
France will be of the two or three days spent
at the “delobsing” depot at Havre, prior to
final embarkation for England.
Trench nephritis, the last of the triad of
new diseases which this war brought forth,
was a mild and curable form of Bright’s
disease, probably due to irregularities in diet
and insufficient exercise in the rest camps.
At great danger to life regular supplies of
hot food were sent by hand up to the front-
line trenches, and over-abundant rations
in the rest camps were cut down. Thus this
complaint was got under control. It never
worried the active Australians as much as
it did some other troops.
Food faddists can get little comfort from
the war. The healthiest armies that ever
existed broke all the faddists’ rules, as well
as all records for courage, energy and endur-
ance. They had, as a rule, abundance of meat
two or even three times daily, indulged
heavily in sugar (the only people in Europe
who did), and partook of tea and coffee by
the gallon for four years, and in the end
were generally better men physically than
when they joined the forces. Gout and rheu-
matism, which are due to an excess of uric
acid, and thickening of the arteries, often
attributed to excessive meat-eating, were
conspicuous by their absence.
Of the gases used in the war the writer
agrees with the before-quoted Woods Hut-
chinson that mustard-gas was the most
devilish —a gas which, by the way, has
nothing to do with mustard, and isn’t a gas
either, hut a heavy liquid known as chloro-
ethyl sulphide. It was always sent over in
shells by Fritz, and as it had only a faint
mustard-like smell it had a. habit of catch-
ing the soldier unawares. One great group
of hospitals alone had 5000 cases of poison-
ing by this gas when it was first used, and
lost 1000 from septic pneumonia. With the
introduction of the box-mask and gas-drill
and a system of gas alarms 'the mortality
was reduced to a few in a thousand of the
troops attacked. The standard time for
getting into a mask was 10 seconds from the
“alert,” and 15 seconds from the “carrying”
position ; but it has been done in four seconds.
The masks could not at the best be called
comfortable, not so much because of the
“stuffiness” as because of the need to keep
the lips closed around the clumsy mouth-
piece, while the nostrils were tightly pegged
together. But no effective plan for dispen-
sing with the mouthpiece was discovered.
The Americans thought they had it; but,
like their Liberty aero-engines, it failed in
the practical test. Fritz had his own type
—rather less cumbersome than ours, perhaps ;
but nine Diggers out of 10 will tell you that
they saw nothing as good as our own. The
great remedy for chlorine and phosgene
gases was the inhalation of oxygen, and every
C.C.S. had a cylinder of this gas fitted up so
that eight or 10 sufferers could suck away at
it at the same time.
On the subject of V.D. quite enough has
been written already. And in any case that
was a matter for the military administrator
rather than for the medical side; while the
damage was not one of the perils of the field,
but of the leave from the field.
A SURGEON.


MEN!—“Your ship has come in”—with
FOX’S ALL-WOOL SERGE
Z'X
<T\
it
il
FOX
TRADE
MARK
Half a dozen times in the last few years men
have flocked to London Stores when a sale of
Fox’s Serge Suits to order was announced.
For some time now not one piece of the
material could be secured. But the last boat
brought in a supply of this world-famed
material —and to-day we will start selling it in
Sac Suits to Order
£5/5/-
Fox s Serge is known everywhere for its uniform
good quality, fast color and wearing capacity.
Every yard is stamped at the back with the above
trade-mark. And the material looks to best
advantage in smartly-cut, well-made suits—
tailored by London Stores Opp. G.P.0., Mel-
bourne.
That’s what YOU can now obtain—but
it’s necessary to
Decide Now, as the
vSupply is Limited
Compared with the ordinary range of suit-
ings that are being offered throughout
Australia at or near the same price, Fox’s
Serge at £5/5/- stands pre-eminent in
value. Remember that it is all pure wool
—is a real Navy Blue fast-color dye—and
at London Stores we tailor a suit for you
on this condition:
“SATISFACTION GUARANTEED
OR MONEY REFUNDED.”
r'
You can take advantage of this offer just
as if you were in Melbourne —by signing
and posting the Coupon for Patterns,
Style Book and Self-measurement Forms.
Don’t delay, as the whole consignment
will soon be gone.
T
4
A
wv
SP
<r«s
If
AS
%
-
siK
-s
-c
This is not a “mere man,”
but a drawing by our artist
showing a Fox’s Serge Suit
as it actually appears.
vies
OPPiQ.P.O
Melbourne
(F. S. MEYERS, Managing Director),
Our Only Address in Australia.
<b
*
4
A
*
0
0
.0
V <#*
£
<b
<b
*
0


1
*9«3
/or £bery Occasion*
ABBOTS LAGER
vSitAout a THitia/
BREVID FROM PURE MALT§HORS OlffiT
The “Warrigal” Hat
WHOLLY MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
It is a significant fact that manufacturers abroad
are seeking AUSTRALIAN skins to make felt for
hats. Australian manufacturers are making up the
same felt which comes to you in “Warrigal” Hats,
less the big duty charged on imports. Encourage
local industry—buy the products of your own
country !
“Warrigal” Pure Fur Felt Hat, flat-set brim, 2J,
with turned edge. Colors: Medium Grev, Fawn Nut
Brown ••••• 13/6
Peapes’ Pay Postage. Please state size and color.
Peapes & Co . Ltd.,
MEN'S OUTFITTERS,
309 & 311 George Street, SYDNEY*
Help to Finish the Job—BUY PEACE LOAN BONDS.
d
m
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s Grand Opera
Criterion “Going: Up”
i alack “The Eyes of Youth”
J ivoli .. “The Officers’ Mess’
Hoyt s Moving Pictures
union fII Eat res Moving Pictures
king s Hall (Monday) Frederick Whitlow
J own Hall (To-night) .... Lillian Mitchell Concert
MET.BOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Mavtime”
Loyal “Lightnin’ ”
rn? GS “Daddies”
Tivoli “The Lads of the Village”
.lovt s De Luxe k Lyceum Moving Pictures
5f EI ' BA .. Moving Pictures
-JiiTANNiA Moving Pictures
Gi.ACiAiauM tee Skating
Gertrude Johnson, who scored so well as
Lucia, again had the centre of Her Majesty s
stage in Sydney on Saturday as Gilda. The
slender soprano knows how to look pathetic,
and the purity of her tone is captivating!
Tenor Lois, as the Duke, revealed a magni-
ficent pair of legs that had hitherto been
only suspected. When he gets amongst the
top-notes his voice hardens; but he swag-
gers beautifully, and there is never any
doubt that he will fetch down the top J
or Z he is after. Basso Caccialli was re-
sonant and impressive without effort as the
assassin. Filippini worked hard as Rigo-
letto; Umberto Mosca cursed with great
dignity but in somewhat woolly tones as
the aged Count Monterone, and Leah Myers,
cruelly handicapped by a heavy cold, got
through as Maddalena. the minx at the
Murderer’s Arms Hotel.
Amy Castles brought her full soprano to
bear on Monday in “Butterfly.” The
orchestra was more noisy than usual, and
the lady with the fan had to go all out to
finish on top. Amy is somewhat mature
for a 15-year-old heroine,'and her shy and
shrinking byplay with the transient bride-
groom Pinkerton didn't convince. But in
the tragic second and third acts she did
well, and at the end looked a real case
for the stretcher-bearers. Walter Wheat-
ley’s _ tenor voice is sweet, but he doesn't
run into first place when alongside such a
singer as Carl Formes —in this production
a fine American consul. Leah Myers made
an appealing Suzuki, and Nello Barontini
was at home with the music of Goro. Fred
Collier raged magnificently as the Bonze,
and Tom Minogue carolled the registrar’s
marriage service so that all eould follow it.
* # * *
The operatic time-table runs on this way:
--To-night (Thursday), “Rigoletto”; Fri-
day, “Butterfly”; Saturday. “Trovatore”;
Monday, “Boheme”; Tuesday, “Faust”;
Wednesdav (matinee) “Butterfly”; Wednes-
day (night). “Lucia.”
•!* * A- *
Eihelie Polini begins a brief revival of
“The Eyes of Youth” to-night (Thursday)
at Sydney Palace. It’s safe betting that a
lot of Sydney people will seize the chance
of seeing this cleverly-constructed play again.
With the aid of the noble Indian’s magic
“Going Up,” at Sydney
Criterion.
George Willoughby as
J. H. Douglas, who
lost his wager.
crystal the same
heroine is rushed
through life in
three different
directions before
she makes her
choice of the
straight road to
happiness. You
can’t fail with a
recipe like that.
* * * Sc
“T h e Officers’
Mess” is rattling
along cheerfully at
tlji'e Tivoli (Syd-
ney), and Vera
Ifearce arrives
punctually with the
milk in the house-
boat scene. She is
too statuesque for
an ingenue, and
when Lieu t.
“Tony” Turnbull
(otherwise bright
little Bert Clarke)
ventures to kiss
her, the awed spec-
tator feels that the
impressive lady
who is masquerad-
ing as a simple farm girl will presently
turn and stun him.
The free list continues to be entirely sus-
pended at Sydney Criterion. Many things
are to blame for this blow to the would-be
dead-head patrons of “Going Up,” but mainly
the music and the dancing.
On the pretext of giving good advice to a
jealous friend Norma Talmadge usurps Syd-
ney Crystal Palace and Strand sheets and
tells how she brought her wandering boy
home every night although she had kicked
off as “The Probation Wife.” At the Lyceum
C. Chaplin’s missus, in dodging the orange-
blossom from the hands of an honest florist,
pulls the petals from a more exclusive tree
growing in Society paddocks. The man she
prefers being a noble youth who honors her
by allowing her to dress in the frocks of
his cast-off mistress, the upraise is called
“Borrowed Clothes.” Doug. Fairbanks
aliases a canary, but is himself lassoed with
a wedding-ring. Nevertheless “He Comes
Up Smiling” every session at Hoyt’s and
the Haymarket. Same houses show pretty
Marguerite Clarke in “Uncle Tom’s Cabin.”
“The Woman Who Gave—A Square Deal,”
are the headings at the Piccadilly. It ought
to be worth watching.
The audacity of “Lightnin’,” at Melbourne
Ifoyal, is getting a good deal of the success
that falls to audacity’s lot in other lines.
When two modern authors conspire to mingle
their recollections of a pair of old ’Murkan
domestic melodramas with a hackneyed
satire on ’Murkan divorce facilities, and sea-
son the compound with an infusion of
familiar Gilbertian extravagance, they de-
serve to succeed, always provided that they
do it fairly well. The plot of “Lightnin’ ”
is quite pardonable, save when it aspires to
pathos, and the elaboration of the name-part
would be wholly permissible if John 1).
O’Hara didn’t frequently slow down to the
verge of a full stop, after the manner of, say,
the late Joe Jefferson in “Rip Van Winkle.”
It was the same with Nat Goodwin. When
an American actor gets the opportunity to
go slow, he goes too slow. He chews his
“fat” with excessive deliberation. In this
case the audience has so much time for con-
sidering the character-study of a white-
haired dipsomaniac that one gets irritated by
the absurdity of presenting a weak-willed
dipso, as a Bill who “never breaks his word.”
even when he carries a full bottle in his
pocket and has promised to go right home
without touching another drop. Also the
chronic booziness of truthful Bill becomes
“Lads of the Village ”
at Melbourne Tivoli.
Hilly Rego as a
sailor.
open to question
-when he loads him-
self with a heavy
trunk and forgets
to rid himself of
the luggage whilst
staggering up and
down stairs half a
dozen times,. as
though he were a
minor low comedian
in a Tivoli revue.
But there are things
more convincing in
the show than the
prolonged charac-
terisation of Bill
Jones. Esmel ton’s
sketch of the Gil-
bertian judge has
suggestions of real-
ism at times, and
the excited cross-
examination of wit-
nesses bv R. Toms
(as John Marvin)
is_ as ingenuous as
might be expected
• T,y,?!' y y° ull g man who puts implicit faith
m Bill s sodden word of honor.
V s;c *
The energy of “Maytime” at Melbourne
Majesty s has been somewhat relaxed bv
casualties in the cast. Last week a heavy
cold compelled Florence Young to tempo-
rarily surrender her enormous “bustle ”
whereupon the loud and flouncing Lizzie
changed into Addie Lennard’s Aunt Matilda
in a voluble version of her 3840 manner.
Addie hasn’t the vivacity of Florence, but
her wondrous-garment will probably supply
all deficiencies in that direction. Mai'e
Baud, who has developed a tender ankle,
has also handed over her share of the
(upsy Dance in the first act to little Phyllis
Amery, whilst Maie’s partner, Bobert Mac-
kinnon. who has joined the sick-list,
has been succeeded by Francis White
Elsewhere, however, all is well, especially
with the large Dago tenor (Oliver Peacock)
who was overlooked in last week’s chronicle.
The character of Signor Vivalla is only a
wraith, but Oliver naturally provides the
substance for the shadow. The note of joy
in his sweet, juicy ballad in the second act
is corroborated by the gladness of his surging
contours.
Thusfar “The Lads of the Tillage,” at
Melbourne Tivoli, has gained no relief from
its most distressing wheezes, or any benefit
from a change of musical items. The line,
voice of the new tenor continues to be wasted
on the same desert airs as at first, and the
road to the trenches, in the Bagdad district,
is still noteworthy on account of its inciden-
tal telephone, represented by a lone “receiver”
placed on an empty wine-case. Should any
drastic pruning be attempted the knife might
as well be applied to at least one of the violin
solos at the Caliph’s court, but the pruner
must be careful not to cut out the little
cockney jokelet which shines like a star
’midst the Caliphian gloom. The idea of
heuig mistaken for a magician named
O’Struth could be ill-spared. Last Saturday
the Ist Act was buttressed with an acro-
batic performance by Archie and Gertie
Falls, whose knockabout business harmo-
nises with their name.
Dolores, the one concert songstress whose
art and personality are a whole entertain-
ment. starts a series of recitals at Melbourne
Town Hall on Saturday. Melbourne has
been waiting a long time for the re-appear-
ance of Dolores, so the coming event is a
matter of interest not only to her previous
admirers, but likewise to a rising generation
which has not yet heard her versatile warble,
nor experienced the charm of her million-
dollar smile.
** * *
“Under the Greenwood Tree” at Hoyt’s
Melbourne house this week isn’t Thomas
Hardy’s delicate rural miniature, but a crude
adventure among gipsies in which Elsie
Ferguson scores the most "points. In another
part of the programme Bryant Washburn
reveals the Way of a Man with a Maid
w’tbout making any fresh discoveries for the
benefit of youths troubled by expensive fe-
males. Bill Farnum has taken the trail to
Utah and found Beauty appealing for de-
“Lads of the Village ”
at Melbourne Tivoli.
Arnold Bell as
Oh, ’Strath.
hverance from
Mor m o n elders.
The narrative is
entitled “kiders
of the Purple
Sage,” and when
Bill intrudes on
the scene the
shortage of elder is
almost awesome.
At the Majestic.
Clara Kimball
Young puts her
Magda on the
screen and only
make s the lady
moderately alive.
Clara’s f rocking,
rather than her act-
in g. provides the
truest illustration
of her worth. The
Majestie’s follow-on
is ‘‘The C o-
respondent,” an ex-
citing newspaper
yarn wherein Wil-
frid Lucas faces a
prospective libel
and a bag of Costs.
One more week
of “Daddies” will
be the last of that
innocuous comedy at Melbourne King’s.
Another soldier-artist’s show: —
A back room in Coll ins-street is the present refuge
of 22 landscapes and impressions by Charles
Wheeler, D.t'.M. Wheeler is principally a portrait
painter, at:d his cold, academic education for his
special metier peeps in hard little realisms from his
outdoor work, lie shows canvases like “The ltail-
way Station,” or “Moonlight, Sydney Harbor,”
which have no particular pictorial quality; but
the spirit of the true artist is seen in “The Con-
cert,” wherein some difficult effects of artificial light
discreetly blur outlines and moderate the consequence
of the ordinary human being. In smaller studies,
whereof “At Lilydale” and “The Fall of the Year”
are noticeable examples, there is evidence of a com-
petent painter employing less than his whole art
and sold.
Figman, at Adelaide Iloyal, has a big
chance in “A Tailor-made Man,” which is
something more than the usual American
farce. In the strike scene he shows real
power. Otherwise his restless gestures are
notable; probably no other actor not playing
a Hebrew part ever had his hands so often
above his shoulders. It is a one-man show,
what out grandfathers called a Charles
Matthews play; but admirable work is done
in small parts by Lolita Robertson, Her-
bert Leigh, lan Maclaren, Millie Engler
and Vivian Edwards (made up in the like-
ness of a former Governor Bosanquet). The
staging is good and business excellent. At
the Tivoli is more American fare, with no
Yankee accent. Nodin and Hillary have
been quarrelling, and Blandford trying to
settle their disputes with a Pair of Sixes
polcer-hand. “Twin Beds” to follow'. At
the Majestic, Edwards and Miss Parkes arc
as popular as. ever. The Harry Burgess Co.
is just concluding its long season, and a
fresh crowd is to come in with Barry Lupino
at the head. McEwen shows his dominating
personality at the Town Hall, but had to
stand down for one evening to allow W. ?&.
Hughes to show his. At Wond-ergraph, Paul-
ine Frederick is mournful as a wronged
wife in “Out of the Shadow,” and Charles
Ray spends part of his time in dodging
girls, the rest in fighting for and annexing
the pick of them. At West’s sob-stuff and
heart-thrills are served out by Norma Tal-
madgp and Fannie Ward in turn, and at
the Pav. May Allison plays the amateur
housemaid with successful matrimonial re-
sults. Mary Miles Minter, at the Grand, is
as charming as any of them.
The phrasemakers compete :
Hushes: It [the German indemnity] will be dike
a postage stamp on a bullock.
Watt (with a. must-beat-that-at-any-cost effort) : I
suppose that microbes on attenuated blades of grass
can shake their fists at the sun.
Jocook (in desperation) : Debt, discord and dis-
traction have still to be overthrown.
Aeroplaning for phrases was the ruin of
1 lea kin, Shiels and a few others who could
be named. They soared when they might
have scored.
Ryan, of Bananaland, is the only Attor-
ney-General in Australia who fights his own
Jaw cases under his own horsehair. Since
he became Premier in .1915 he has appeared
tor the Crown” in five big actions—the
insurance case, validity of the Upper House
referendum. Modraberrie cattle case, Lennon
r. Howes, and the McCawley matter. In
four, being successful, he made an enormous
saving for the State; and the fifth—the
-MrCawley cast —has yet to be determined
by top Privy Oonnril.
“RIGOLETTO.”
©nee there lived a foolish jester who of patience
was a tester,
And he plied his silly calling in the palace of a
duke—
One whose ways were very shady when in love with
any lady,
And who’d seen the jester's daughter by some melan-
choly fluke.
Now a gent, a grievance nursing, strode into the
palace cursing,
And the jester for It is master mocked an aged
father’s rage;
But the father, for that caper, cursed the living
comic-paper
In the best grand-opera manner till lie writhed
uiion tlie stage.
Never did a funny artist do a sadder comic page.
Next young Gilda Bigoletto in her father’s garden
met—oh !
Such a nice young man, but forward. ( Twas the
young, flirtatious duke.)
First the girl was gay and placid, hut he soon put
on the acid
And she seemed to shoo him homeward with a
maidenly rebuke.
With a tender top-note ringing, to her boudoir she
went singing;
But the courtiers who were weary of Dad’s jesting
scaled the wall,
And they took the girl with malice to the rapid
ruler’s palate.
(This is; where the flapper’s mother doesn’t like the
plot at all;
Gilda’s “pushed” irr “Rjgoletto” ; Marguerite in
“Faust” must “fall.”)
In the third act tearful Gilda wishes that the duke
had killed her,
And her father does some cursing in the ducal
dining-room ;
But they both start back astonished when the old
mail who admonished;
Duke and jester in the first act stalks past cursing
in the gloom. \
(In an age less clam and gracious all the dwellings
were so spacious
That the neighbors could go cursing through the
corridors in song,
“Going Up,” at
Sydney Criterion.
A Jack Hooker
entrance.
While the owners, bored
as blazes, wandered else-
where through the
mazes
Of their battlemented
mansion with the usual
idle throng,
Never guessing for a
moment that the plot
was going wrong.)
In act four the Duke is
busy in a bush pub with
some Lizzie-
One whose father risks his
license doing little mur-
der “-jobs,
lligolctto fees him gladly,
for he wants the Duke
killed badly,
And the bravo takes the
contract while the ’cello
softly sobs ;
Hut the hussy tells her
brother she would rather
have another
Paying traveller killed for
export. (She was cer-
tainly unsexed.)
Oilda overheard and shiv-
ered, was admitted,,
killed, delivered
In a sack to her old father.
(When he found out he
teas vexed.)
And the Duke took Lizzie walking- while the bravo
muttered, “Next!”
N.S.W.
KODAK.


Chain Tread Tyres
• ■ >
' M
jyju
■
United States Tyres
are Good lyres
-V."; ’ : * ;V
* 1 <'4
l, 1
mm
i i
vv' .
The “Chain” Tread has, by its meritorious
records for mileage and anti-skid qualities,
firmly established itself as the most
economical and efficient tyre on the
Australian market.
Obtainable from all leading garages and
UNITED STATES RUBBER COMPANY
(Australasia) Limited,
53 York Street, SYDNEY; and 130-2 William Street, MELBOURNE .
W. A. SORRELL, 157 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
QUEENSLANDs Howard Motor & Cycle Co. Ltd., Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA : Bagot, Shakes & Lewis Ltd., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.) Ltd., Perth:
LAUNCESTON : Irvine & McEachern.
HOBART: Buchanan, Davidson & Co. Ltd.
NEW ZEALAND: Magnus, Sanderson & Co. Ltd., Wellington
~ ~ Dsxter & Crazier Ltd., Christchurch.


£l3/10/
£3O
£3O.
£l5/10/
£B/10/-
£9/10/-
£lB/10/-
£135.
Quality Diamond Ring's
from Stewart Dawson’s.
The combination of Cash and Purchasing Power is the factor which counts in the Value
of Stewart Dawson’s Diamond Rings. The vast requirements for their Ten Establish-
ments in London and Australasia command' purchase of the World’s Finest Values in
Precious Stones.
The Purity and Brilliance of the Stones in Stewart Dawson’s Diamond Rings diffuse that
light and lustre known only in
DIAMONDS OF FIRST QUALITY.
To buy inferior Diamonds is money wasted. The firm’s long-standing reputation is a
guarantee of confidence for every buyer, and YOUR choice may safely rest upon this
Guarantee.
ALL DIAMONDS SET IN REAL PLATINUM.
Call and Inspect at any of the Stewart Dawson Establishments, or Write for Latest
CATALOGUE.
Stewart Dawson & Co. (Aust.) Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth, Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch, Dunedin.
Also Regent Street and Hatton Garden, London.
£lO/10/-
£l6/10/-
£l4/10/-
£llO.
£l6/10/-
9m
£3O
£l7/10/-
£l4/10/-
POVERTY
POINT
MOET &
CHANDON
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
[?]
From Tiie Bulletin’s Melbourne critic:
In a recent Bulletin “T. D. Enidee” recalls how
old Sam Pepys “deplored the decadence of acting,
just as we old fogeys do to-day.” After which he
instances the versatile mumming talent of the late
Henry Harwood to justify the eternal lament. Now, I
am one of the fogeys who do not complain of any
decadence in the general performance of plays, mean-
ing the best performances of to-day as compared with
the best of 40 to 50 years ago; but I have no doubt
about the present dearth of all-round ability in
acting which was comparatively (but only compara-
tively) plentiful in the past. There was no period
when the ordinary actor was likely to be more effec-
tive in his part than he is nowadays; but he was
formerly more capable of doing well-enough in a
wider range of characters, on account of his move
exacting education with stock companies.
As regards the long-late Samuei Pepys, whose
theatre-going began in gloomy times when women
were not yet permitted to appear on the stage, and ‘
was continued for some years after the giddy reign
of Charles 11., I am not sure that 1 accept him as
an authority. He ranked Beaumont and Fletcher
and others now forgotten as the superiors of Shaks-
peare, and remarked in his diary that “Othello,”
although a good play, was not the equal of “The
Adventures of Five Hours,” which suggests that he
would have devoured Victoria Cross’s novels had he c
been born 24 centuries later. Granting - , however,
that Samuel had a good taste in individual acting, 1
conclude that the leading mummers of his heyday—
Betterton and Harris —were really greater than any
he knew in his old age. So much for the man who
kept the immortal diary.
With “Emdee’s” estimate of Harwood I am in full
accord. I swear by Harwood’s performance of the
Duke in “La Fille du Tambour Major” as the funniest
thing I ever saw. He and John Wallace (Bambini)
were an excruciatingly droll combination. The
opera has long been out of date, but you still hear
an occasional “I am here, dear Duke,” from someone
who used to split his sides when the snuffy, short-
sighted personage wanted to know where the devil
his restless friend Bambini had got to. Harwood
was a powerfully humorous comedian. AVhen he
gave the Private Secretary a sheet of blotting-paper
and bade that inane curate “go and blot himself
out” the audience felt the irritability of the old
man. One remembers him as the proprietor of the
travelling show in “The Grasshopper,” a poor play
wherein Jennie Lee used to star. He was always
very good, and often great. But Harwood was an
exceptionally gifted comedian, who could be forcibly
“intense,” and had profited by an experience witli
stock companies such as no actor of his ability needs
to suffer from these times. His colleagues in any
sort of piece might also be all-round actors, lmt
they didn’t produce as good an all-round effect as we
get from a selection of mediocre specialists in a
good modern production. There is a decadence in
versatility in the very best individual talent, but not
a falling-off in the work of the mass, for no mem-
bers of the mass are at all misplaced in a careful
modern production, whereas the old commonplace
stock actors of yore were likely to be no more
than jffst. payable. I agree with any other old fogey
who says that; no leading lady in a musical piece these
times is “aijother Nellie Stewart” ; nevertheless I
maintain that a well-chosen cast for a musical
comedy or comic opera is nowadays more generally
efficient than when the versatile Nellie was a young
prima donna.
As for the old tragedians who were more or less
famous when I was a boy—well, I never did believe
in them. With the one exception of Sam Phelps
(and he was at his best in classic comedy rather
than tragedy) they presented the unnatural affecta-
tions of a bygone age. I think back to James Ander-
son as Mark Antony, or Creswick as Othello, and
say “Give me Oscar Asche for my money,” or rather
for my free admission. And Barry Sullivan’s Bichard
the Third! As a young man I thought Barry an
absurd old barnstormer, viewed in the light of the
newly-arrived Henry Irving’s performance, and a
couple of years ago I thought that Allan Wilkie com-
pared very respectably with my faded recollection of
Irving in the part.
“Machete”: The Bulletin, reviewing
Bernays’s Bauanaland reminiscences, says
“the rum of human kindness wasn’t in
Palmer.” The ex-bullocky’s record as a
frequent Acting-Governor was indeed a poor
one. When Janet Aehureh came to Bris-
bane she asked Palmer in the usual way to
make her first performance of “Camille”
a vice-regal night. But when Brisbane
turned up there was no vice-regality.
Instead Charrington came out in front and
read the reply which Palmer had sent: —
Dear Sir,—The Acting Governor having read the
book on which the play “Camille” is written from.
Sir Arthur declines to be present with ladies at a
play of its character. I have, etc., Will Palmer,
Actg. A.D.C.
Charrington, after regretting with icy sar-
casm that his wife was not capable of put-
ting up the sort of performance that vice-
regality might have been willing to attend
without ladies, withdrew; and the show
began.
Sara Allgood (“Peg o' my heart”) is to
make her re-appearance in a new J. and N.
Tait venture bearing the ouaint title “Old
Lady 31,” due shortly at Melbourne King’s.
Eardley Turner will “play opposite” Sara-
one of four men in a crowd of 14 of the
other sex!
“Harrison O.”: “0.K.” (B. 28/8/’l9) re-
bukes Melbourne dailies for attributing “La
Bolifeme” to Leoncavallo. But there has been
as much a misapprehension on “O.K.’s” part
as a mistake on the part of the others.
Leoncavallo did write “La Bohfeme,” but not
the opera associated in the public ear with
the Poet’s Song which “0.K.” was humming
to himself. The better-known “La Bohfeme”
composed by Puccini was produced at Turin
a few months before Leoncavallo’s opera.
Incidentally, it seems probable that the
Argus, though not the Herald, fell into the
same error as “0.K.,” in assuming that there
is only one “La Boh&me” ; for a headline on
the Leoncavallo obituary referred to him as
the composer of this opera, as if it was his
most famous work, and the paragraph be-
neath mentioned that it is included in the
repertoire of practically every opera co.,
which it certainly is not. “0.K.” seems not
to have heard of Leoncavallo’s “Boh&me”;
but it looks as if the Argus is ignorant of
the much more famous work by Puccini.
“Petra mbs’*: The decorator has changed
West’s Olympia into a real theatre such as
“Going Up” at Sydney
Criterion.
William Greene as
Galliard, the French
flying-man.
was never dreamed
of when I was a
kid in Adelaide.
I remember the
building first as
a cyclorama
and later as
the Troca-
dero. After
a fire the Trbe.
continued its vaud-
eville show under
difficulties. After
you had paid to
get in you selected
your chair from a
pile of burnt offer-
ings. The various
acts were given on
a series of impro-
vised stages. Some-
one blew' a whistle
to direct attention
to the locality of
the next act, where-
upon there would
be a stampede
of patrons carry-
ing scorched seat-
ing accommodation.
Opera of a sort
was tried in the
Trocadero vastness,
and “Maritana” had a little flutter; and
the Cosgroves naturally appeared there.
West’s opened the place as a picture house
with a tanbark floor and an audience of 50
people and a dog. It was my dog.
“Lorenzo”: The widow of the late G. P.
Carey died in Melbourne the other day after
a brief illness. Professionally May Hill, she
was best known under the old Brough regime.
Her last appearance was with the Firm’s
show, “The Whip.” Her brother, Harry
Hill, retired from the boards after Sweet
Nell’s tour of the U.S.A. some years ago.
Reg Carey, her son, is stage-managing with
the Max Figman co.
“Belle Canto”: It is doubtful whether
vaudeville audiences enjoy listening to grand-
opera tenors, and I won’t believe that the
tenors enjoy their music-hall engagements.
Cappelli, singing in Brisbane recently, was
insulted by a galoot who threw a penny on
the stage. The singer couldn’t vent his
feelings in English, but he let ’em go in the
wings in Italian. Twenty-odd years ago
Philip Newbury had a bad time at Sydney
Tivoli, where he was making his earliest
appearances in vaudeville, and one night
announced from the stage that he would
never sing at that house again. He did, of
course, but the two instances reveal that
(a) tlie mob is no more musical than it was
when father was a boy, (b) Verbrugghen
has the Devil’s own job before him if he
takes his State orchestra to Waterloo.
“THE OFFICERS' MESS,” AT SYDNEY
TIVOLI.
Captain Hugh Steyne and Liewt. Bert Clark
smile uneasily under the stern cue of
the A.P.M. (Claude Flemming).
“Biobox”: Recent letters reveal that
George Cross is on his way to the movies
under William Desmond, whom he knew in
Australia. Cross’s sisters (professionally
Queenie Cross and Violet D’Arcy) are in
the “Ginger Mick” picture now in the
making.
“A.8.C.”: I’ll whoop any time for Aus-
tralia, but I like to see justice done even
to an American, and when “T. D. Eindee”
(B. 21/8/Y9), who didn’t see him, says
Harry Plimmer lost Cuyler Hastings as
Sherlock Holmes, I hasten to disagree. I
saw the original Australian production in
Adelaide. Plimmer’s cherubic countenance
and ample frame were right out of the pic-
ture. No dope fiend ever looked so healthy,
and the casting gave the play a poor kick off.
A thin man may impersonate a fat one, but
until actors become as zealous in their pro-
fession as jockeys a portly star must leave
skin and bone to the attenuated.
. Marie Lohr has revived the English ver-
sion of Rostand’s “L’Aiglon” in London,
and the Daily Telegraph says it reveals
her “in the new light of a finished emotional
actress.”
* I agree with “Petramos” (B.
24/7/T9) that it is not true that the clever
stage kid seldom becomes a clever stage
adult. Many names other than those he
mentions could be quoted in proof. The
most notable Australian omissions from his
list are Toots and Lorna Powers, who as
youngsters used to furnish “imitations of
artists we have seen and heard” at the
Tivoli. Among Australians who have
appeared on the London stage of recent
years they have probably done better than
any, except Ivy Shilling, and, perhaps, Dot
Brunton. Mrs. Ivendal began at five, and
Ellen Terry at eight. Her sisters, Kate and
Minnie, started at three. Maud Adams, the
Yankee Peter Pan, was carried on to the
stage as. a babe. When the Dare sisters
first achieved a boom as picture-postcard
favorites Phyllis was nine and Zena 12.
Genee was dancing in public at eight, Lettv
Lind played Eva in “Uncle Tom’s Cabin”
when she was five, and Marie Lohr was a
clever kid actress at six. Others who wore
grease-paint as youngsters are Ada ReeVe,
Lily Elsie, Edna May, Ada Rehan, Julia
Marlowe, Connie Ediss. Gabrielle Ray,
Louie Freear, Florence Smithson, Virginia
Bateman and Winifred Emery. But the
male performers who achieve footlights suc-
cess in kidhood can almost be counted on
the noses of one foot. Of those seen in
Australia I can recall only two—W. S.
Percy and Charlie Albert.
“Second Heavy”: Probably the first time
Gregan McMahon used greasepaint at a
Sydney show was in June, ’95, when he
appeared in a scene from Sheridan’s
“Critic,” done by the Uni. Dramatic Co.,
at the Lyceum, then the J.C.W. stronghold.
The occasion was a benefit to Emily Soldene.
“Petramos”: Now they are all unionists
together I hope the ticket-takers will stick
to the actors better than the actors stuck
to the ticket-takers during a George Mus-
grove season in Adelaide. Nell Stewart was
appearing in “Old Heidelberg” when the
theatre staff struck. The actors, called on
by the management, collected pasteboards
till the curtain rang up. The local flappers
went along abundantly on the chance of a
hand-squeeze by a real actor, and biz became
so good that the management prayed for the
strike to continue.
“B. J.” :. Roland Rushton, joint producer
(with his fellow-Australian, Jerome Pat-
rick) of “Daddies,” reckons that David
Belasco is less afflicted with egoism than any
other producer he met in Wilson’s Republic.
The attitude of the average Yankee producer
to the man who makes a suggestion is one
of “Gardarn your impertinence”; but when
Rushton put forward an idea to reduce the
playing time of a couple of long acts, Belasco
gave him three cheers and remembered him
on treasury day.
“Black Out”: “Early Turn’s” charge that
the Australian vaudeville performer is too
lazy to get new material for his act is
true in a sense, but it doesn’t apply all
round. Leonard Nelson, for instance, adver-
tises regularly that he is prepared to buy
suitable material. It should be remembered
that high literary qualities are not neces-
sary in a vaudeville writer and may be a
drawback. The most successful scribe for
vaudeville in Australia last year was an
American who was a complete stranger to
spelling. He wrote his sketches listening for
the applause, and they talked right because
you can’t hear spelling. “Early Turn”
speaks of Australian pirates, but the worst
thieving in this country is done by alleged-
revue producers who make occasional trips
to America and pinch every idea in sight
and all the gags they can jamb into a udte-
book. When they return, our programmes
give them the credit of “writing and pro-
ducing” the hotch-potchcs.
“Adelaide”: An amateur trial has been
given at the King’s, Adelaide, to another
comedy by Edith Aird, a clever local press-
woman. “Whose Stocking” resembles
another silk-stocking play in hanging on the
unexpected return of a bachelor to his apart-
ments while a girl is innocently billeted
there. The situations arc brisk, and the
dialogue witty; but the acts are too short,
and need either writing up or running to-
gether. There is talk of a Mclntosh trial
being given to the productions of this author,
and they deserve it.
“J.F.IL” (London) : “Dream dancing' -
is the latest novelty in London. It is being
done in the afternoon at the St. Martin’s
lheatre by a foreign-looking lady styling
herself Madame Caro Campell. It is
alleged that she never acquired any technical
knowledge of dancing, but while under treat-
ment for insomnia it was discovered that she
had _ ‘a peculiar faculty for reacting to
music.” This faculty has been developed,
so that now. after being hypnotised, she
dances gracefully to whatever music is played
around her. In the brief intervals of no
music she assumes a tense attitude. Her
husband does the hypnotising, and doctors
are invited ,to come ttp, investigate and
satisfy themselves that the thing is no fake.
It has caught on at a moment of widespread
mental instability when “psychical pheno-
mena” are one of a multitude of crazes.
THE LONG-FELT WANT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
John Dunne and gifted company
In all the “smalls” were known.
John’s company we found to be
Emphatic’lly his own,
The old dame was his wedded wife,
The hero was Will Dunne, •
The wicked wretch who stirred up strife
Was Johnnie’s eldest son.
The soubrette was a daughter, and
The heroine another;
Tom Dunne was leader of the band,
First fiddle was his brother;
The comic was a Dunne, the grand
Old lady’s part was Tilly’s;
There always was a babe on hand
For playing little Willies.
Then John’s wife died. He mourned a year,
Then wed a younger one,
And in the course of nature there
Appeared a little son.
“You start a second company ?”
We asked. John shook his head.
“No, no, this time it’s going to be
An audience!” he said.
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.
HELPLESS!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The highbrows at my show and me
Do well to “grouse.”
“The play is rotten”—l agree;
But see the house!
“The acting’s something to appal”—
Would that I could
Deny it. Yet, in spite of all,
The booking’s good.
“Its moral tone is simply vile”—
Too true, I fear.
“Art it has none” —excuse me while
I drop a tear.
“Tawdry”—admitted ; but it pays.
“It never should ! ”
Maybe. “Why don’t you mend your ways?”
The booking’s good!
The critics tried to kill it. I
Don’t blame them—nay !
But what’s the use? It will not die,
My rotten play.
By no one public taste, I’ve read,
Is understood;
I grieve to state for weeks ahead
The bookings good.
VICTORIA.
EARDLEY TURNER.


$ to
No matter what period of the year it may
be, or whether epidemics are prevailing
or not, the main thing all the time is to
keep in good health. How essential this
is has been illustrated during the Influ-
enza Epidemic. People probably never
had a better example of the importance of safeguarding their
health. By observing this many escaped the dreaded disease,
while, on the contrary, the negligent ones have been stricken
down with disastrous results. Now, with a decline in the
number of Influenza cases, there is a tendency on the part
of many to at once discontinue their usual precautions.
While certain of these may be relaxed, there are others just
as important as ever, and will continue so after the epidemic
has been completely wiped out. The most important
precaution to be observed at all times is to keep
the system clean and in proper working order, thus
preventing the germs from getting a chance to incubate.
Dr. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS
are being used all the time for this purpose by thousands of people. During
the epidemic they have been resorted to consistently, and found to be such
an invaluable medicine that the demand has exceeded anything previously
experienced. This has not been created by people experimenting with Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills, but is due to the regular users taking them more
frequently, as they know by experience how useful these pills are when it is
so important to maintain a regular condition of health.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA, BY AUSTRALIANS, FOR AUSTRALIANS


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALGOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, UiIITED, Redfern, Sydney.
LEWIS&WMITTY
Mfl
iOURNE & SYDNEY
d
Leh Hi is label ouide you
ho a perfech arinK. *
Blinds Gin
A Product - of 50 Years* Experience
SPORTING
NOTIONS
DON'T LET TINKER
MICK SIMMONS
DO THE JOB
PROPERLY
Since Shaded Light came into notice for
the Epsom, there iias been a controversy about which
of the handicappers knew most. A.J.C. weight-
fixer Wilson gave him 7st. 71b. in both Epsom and
Metrop. For the Caulfield Cup he stands on the Bst.
mark ; for the Melbourne Cup at Bst. 51b. One lot
of critics claim that Wilson has pitchforked the nag
into the Epsom. Very much the same thing hap-
pened last year when Amadis suddenly burst into the
limelight that beats on the big race. The Destroyer
followed. Neither had done anything at the time
to justify the boom; and Shaded Light has done no
more to date than either of them. The points in
his favor are that he is attractively bred
and a great track galloper. He is by the
Cloodwood and Doncaster Cup winner Radium from
Penumbra, a daughter of the late King Edward s
Derby winner Persimmon, from Aumbry by Minting
(Derby), from Alb by Speculum (Goodwood Cup),
from Silver Hand (a half-sister to the dam of the
big prize-winner Donovan, whose active career on the
turf returned his owner £55,183). Furthermore, his
sire’s stock have done extremely well in Australia,
those good importations Rebus and King Offa both
being by him.
* * * *
The Destroyer had another run on Satur-
day among maidens —at Moorefield. The grey de-
ceiver was again backed like a certainty, got off
well, and shut up over the last half-furlong of six.
lie, too, has been well backed for the Epsom.
Westincre, who won for Agar Wynne, is
a grand-daughter of the great Flying Fox, on whom
Mornington Cannon had so many wins in the old
days. The ruinous grey could do no better than a
close third.
* * * *
Toison D'Or. the English horse that won
its first race in Melbourne the other day, will never
again receive such gentle treatment from the handi-
cappers as it got for the Spring events—7st. 41b. in
the Epsom and Met.., arid 7st. 71b. in each of the
Cups. If the animal; was worth the money Con-
nolly paid for it a year ago it was worth a bit
more weight. Now or never is the time for Toison
D’Or to take a big trick.
* * * *
Harry Taylor, of the Macquarie Stud,
Wellington (N.S.W.), has taken over Trillion from
J. E. Brewer, who was given him by his breeder,
E. E. D. Clarke. Trillion, is the only horse that
has ever won both the Goodwood and City Handi-
caps in the same year in S. Aus. He is by The
Welkin (imp.) from Wilga (imp.). His dam, who
has produced two good winners in Sister Satellite
and Welkin Queen, is half-sister to the imported
horse Passing By, whose son Crusader recently won
the Adelaide Guineas. So, by and large, his arrival
at Tavlor’s place should give a boost to breeding
in N. S. Wales.
* * * *
In the S.A. Tatt.’s Handicap. (ljm.) on
Saturday, the much-raced Wee Gun was not equal
to carrying 9st. 111 b. into a place, although last
year he ran second in the Jockey Club Handicap, a
similar distance, under 9st. 31b. He is an un-
doubted stayer, and with Bst. in the Caulfield Cup he
should have rather more than a show. At the same
meeting the spectacular Mount Miltsin only just lost
the Hurdle Race, in which event the ex-Sydnevite
Franzac wag a starter.
* * * •
At the Adelaide 11. C.’s Grand National
meeting £27,000 went through the tote on Steeple-
chase day, and close on £50.000 for the two after-
noons. This is half as much again as during the
lean years of the war, and well ahead of even the
records of the fat years of the past. The big
race went to Mooenbar, a 12-year-old of no par-
ticular distinction, wh'o was lucky to be left alone
at the end to win. One small race produced the
useful dividends of £3l Bs. for first and £l7 15s.
for second; another £l5 Is. and £22 2s. Even
Mooenbar paid £l4 65.~ in a field of nine.
* * * *
The brother to Biplane in J. Holt’s Mel-
bourne stable is a good-looking sort. Winged Vic-
tory is his name, and he will carry the livery of
Norman Falkiner who brought him, with his dam
Air Motor, at the dispersal sale of Sol Green’s Ship-
ley Stud, for 750 guineas. ■ The Falkiner animals
are more happily named than most. For instance,
The Warbler, by Land of Song (imp.) from Yippin-
gale (imp.), and Jewel Song by Land of Song
(imp.)—Bervlium (imp.), both of which are this
season’s youngsters.
Some staggering prices were paid at the
July sales m England. The chestnut gelding Somer-
ville, 4yrs., by White Eagle—Queen Mother, fetched
2300 guineas; Pretty Girl, by King’s ' Proctor —
Valkyrie, 2900 guineas; Pretty Missie, by Orby—-
Missie Ash, 3000 guineas; Tom Pepper, b. c., 4yrs.,
by Lemberg—Back Answer, 3500 guineas; Tourville,
ch. c., 3yrs., by Torpoint—Golden Lady, 3000
guineas; and Equinox, ch. i., 3yrs., by Sunstar —
Pernelle, 2600 guineas. On the following day a colt
by The Tetrach —Zoaro brought 5200 guineas ; colt
by Roi Herode —She, 2200 guineas; filly by Glas-
gerion—Caspia, 3200 guineas; colt by Black Jester
—Own Sister, 2300 guineas. The top price of the
week was obtained by the Irish breeder Martin
Gurry, whose bay colt by the St. Leger winner
Prince Palatine, from Rock Garden by Wolf’s Crag,
realised 6500 guineas, the purchaser being Felix
Leach. This is the third-highest-priced yearling
ever sold in England, Sceptre bringing 10,000 and
Cupbearer 9100 guineas at this age. The Prince
Palatine colt is related on the dam’s side to im-
ported Simile, a 6ire used with qualified success by
John Brown at his Wills Gully Stud, and to im-
ported Greyspear, now doing stud duty in the Forbes
district.
* » * *
The people behind Sydney Damsel threw
in-for n hatful in the flying at Moorefield on Satur-
day, mainly on the strength of speedy performances
on the track lately in anticipation of the Epsom.
However, the mare got bunkered at three furlongs,
and had nothing to say at the end. The imported
Irritation, bought by Richard Wootton for the late
G. S. Yuill, took the cash after a sharp -struggle
with Pripet, a smart but unlucky daughter of
Repartee. Riven, trained by William Booth, must
have shown something special in the way of pace
befoiehand. She was backed with great determina-
tion.
* * * «
The most curious late-run on record in
S. Aus. football has just been put up by the West
Adelaide team, which has on consecutive Satur-
days beaten the three clubs at the head of the
list —Sturt, West Torrens and North Adelaide. There
is nothing in it except the temporary glory; for
Wests had done so badly all the winter that they
do not get into the semi-finals at all. In fact
with the above three wins given in, they have
only four to their credit, and are still next to
bottom on the list.
Maoriland Ilugby League XIII found its
Punch at Christchurch on Saturday and Australia
was outed by 21 points to 10. The umpiring was
bad, as it frequently has been of late in the Aus-
tralasian League games. For M.L., the hefty for-
wards scored all the tries—Walters (three) and
Ilallander and Williams (one each); for Australia
Harold Holder scored all the points (two tries and
two goals).
* * # w
X. S. Wales Rugby League shutters went
up on Saturday when Balmain defeated Easts by
13 to four and landed the premiership. It was a
fine, defensive match, and the only try was notched by
nippy half-back G. Robinson (Balmain). The bal-
ance of the scoring was done by L. Wall (Balmain),
with five goals (10 points), and Wally Messenger
(Easts) with two goals. Balmain’s success makes
the fourth in five seasons, and the club was also
runner-up in 1909.
* * * *
“T.8.L.”: Football is generally looked
upon as a 100 to 1 on chance for the team with the
record, yet here is what happened in Sydney on
Saturday. The extraordinarily strong Sydney Gram-
mar team took the field against ltiverview, after
accounting for St. Joseph’s to the tune of 55 —0,
Scot s College 22 to 5 and the King’s School 39 —6,
all of which teams have comfortably defeated St.
Ignatius. The Grammar combination was at full
strength, while St. Ignatius had three on the sick list
-—one a Combined Schools rep. Yet the result, a
draw, B—B,8 —8, was a distinctly lucky ending for
Grammar. Marvellous what a strong pack of forwards
and spoiling tactics can do 1
* * * »
Last Saturday’s Vic. League hoofball com-
prised two games that didn’t count and two dirty
doings that did. With but two games yet to play
the struggle gets fiercer, and there are still five
teams trying to squeeze into the Big Four. Souths
and ’Wood are certainties, and are also pretty sure
to fight out the ultimate finish. Next comes Rich-
mond with 40 points ; then ’Roy with 34 and Carl-
ton with 32 Latter has stijl to meet Souths and
Richmond, and if it can down both will displace Rich-
mond on percentages of points scored. Similarly
Roy has to collide with Saints and ’Wood. If it
can capsize both it is a semi-final certainty • if it
loses either it may go out. Ail depends on what
happens to Carlton. Carlton got a record trouncing
on Saturday, the Magpies piling up 113 points to
the old Blues 45. Simultaneously Richmond smashed
haints fading hopes by scoring 100 points to 41.
Both disasters were due to individual mediocrity
pitting itself against organised excellence. At Col-
imgvvood a 30,000 crowd parted £544 and at Rich-
mond some 20,000 anted-up £358, including the Id.
per head amusement tax.
* * * *
Saturday saw the conclusion of the first
round of Vie. Association games, North, ’Seray
Cote and Brunswick being left in. This is North-
cote s first appearance in finals, and the team’s strict
attention to business merits the honor. A few weeks
ago Cote met, North, on the latter’s ground, and
gave it the fright of its life. Prendergast’s suburb
hasn t smelt defeat for three or four years, and when
Cote promised to put an end to the beautiful
sequence of 52 consecutive victories the barrackers
took a. hand, chased ’Cote’s players off the ground,
wrecked the vehicles taking them home and played
up generally. ’Cote and North will meet in the
semi-final on September 13, on the East Melbourne
ground when something extra-willing may be looked
tor. North wants a walloping, anyhow; after 50
consecutive victories no man can build hats to fit
the team at the present price of fur.
* * * *
Blebe-Balmnin, in the N. S. Wales Union
Rugby Competition, were ill-advised to risk playin'*
an unqualified man oil Saturday. They were meet-
ing in Manly a team very near their own present
strength, which was probably why they took the
chance. They won all right, but promptly had the
fruits of victory removed from them. This leaves
Uni., who received a forfeit from Easts, leaders by
four points. The game next Saturday between G.-B.
and Uni. will decide the premiership should Uni.
either win or draw.
In the liugby Union match at Brisbane on
Saturday, the Bananalanders failed to repeat the
licking they gave the N. S. Wales visiting team a
week previously. They went down by 17—8. Liddy,
for the home players, showed form which he has
never exhibited in N. S. Wales. O’Sullivan was the
pick of the rest. For the visitors Mingay, the
Manly champion, gave a better exhibition than he
did the previous week, and Mayne was dashing as
ever in attack and weak as heretofore in defence.
Carr once more tended to break up the back com-
bination by getting out of position. He is perhaps
a worse offender than Mayne in this respect.
Buchanan also does a little in the poaching line.
•* * * *
The two top-notch N. S. Wales amateur
golfers, E. L. Apperly and T. E. Howard, are sadly
diso-nointed players. They each had hopes of win-
ning the Ma State championship, but no quorum
could be raised by the golf council which regulates
the big event, so there will be no amateur cham-
pionship. Apperly and Howard then applied to Mel-
bourne that their entries for the Vic. amateur
championship might, under the circumstances, be
accepted, though the date of entry had passed.
Their request was refused, so they feel that Peace is
only a rumor.
The Panther was scratched for the English
St. Leger last week. He won the Two Thousand by
a neck from Buchan and was a hot favorite for
the Derby. However, he failed utterly in that race,
and he repeated the indiscretion in the Irish Derby.
His owner, A let: Black, can afford the disappoint-
ment. Starting without a shilling he now owns
the greatest trawling fleet that ever sailed out of
Grimsby.
lhe Maoriland
winners of the cup
which the ltoyal
George donated 'to
the victors in the Im-
perial Service Rugby
Tournament were skip-
pered by hefty Jimmy
Ryan. He recently
led his bulky team
against France, whom
the Maorilanders de-
feated by 20 points to
three. George Rex,
numerous princelings,
Douglas Haig, other
brass-hats and repre-
sentatives of the
French Embassy were
umong the ' 20,000
who witnessed the
conflict at Twicken-
ham.
JAMES RYAN,
captain of the Maori-
land Rugby team
which recently icon
the King's Cup in
the Cold Country.
The A.I.F. cricket team beat Somerset
by 95 after the county which used to be captained
bv “Sammy” Woods had got them all out for 85
in their first attempt. Earlier in the week the
soldiers drew with Gloucestershire. The form of
the players was capsized by heavy rain in both
matches.
* * * *
Yorkshire has won the English County
championship despite the handicap of two-day cricket
and a new system of points scoring. The famous
county has had the services of such old-timers as
Denton; Rhodes and Hirst all through. The best
of the younger ones has been the 30-year-old pro.,
Kilner.
* * * «
The Australian tennis champions went
down badly at the famous Forest Hills courts last
week. William, the younger of the two Johnston
brothers, eliminated Patterson, and Tilden beat
Brookes by three sets to one. R. N. AVilliams, of
Boston, who holds the title of Champion of America,
defeated our own Thomas and Maurice McLoughlin.
He will meet Tilden and the Johnstons will meet
one another in the semi-finals. None of these great
players were in England during the recent champion-
ship matches. About the best to meet our men
was Clarence Griffin, of California, though Washburn
was .there; and, of course. Garland and the lengthy
W illis Davis, both of whom have done well against
the Australian pair in America.
* * * *
The lawn-tennis world has just woke up
to the fact that there is no limit placed by the
rules on the size of ’•acquets, as there is with
cricket bats. A fair-class English player, Donnis-
thorpe, lately made public appearance with a mon-
ster. It was considered a joke at first, but though
he beat Dodd, a S. African champion, many on-
lookers refused to believe that the immense surface
was really an advantage.
* * * *
Tommy Uren, boxing slightly over the
welter limit, beat Jimmy Clabby (list. 6£lb.) at
Sydney Stadium on Saturday night. The upheaval
went the whole 20 rounds and was won during the
first ten. Clabby has all his old skill and pluck,
but he lacks the youthful vim necessary to master
a hefty lad of Uren’s years. Uren remains middle-
weight champion of Australia, as he would have
done in any event, Clabby having entered the ring
overweight.
Mike O’Dowd, by the way, whom welter Jack Brit-
ton recently licked on points, is also a middle,
and, if he omits to train hard, a bit over. He has
knocked out A 1 McCoy, who knocked out George
Chip, and has been soberly described as “the great-
est middle since Stanley Ketchell.” Yet he
couldn’t beat, in Britton, a man giving him 10
years in age and nearly a stone in weight. Ted
Lewis easily beat Britton in Boston in 1915, and
he with difficultv befit Harry Stone the follo»'ing
year. Which puts the eccentric Yid, who is now
J n S. Aus., in a class with America’s greatest
middleweight to-day—assuming there'Ts' anytnine in
comparative “form.”
Eugene Volaire is lightweight champion
of Queensland. At Brisbane Stadium on Saturday
mght he knocked out “Wave” Geikie in the l-->th
Geikie put up a good scrap, but the Gaul was too
vigorous.
* * *
The home-coming of the Diggers is ex-
pected to make a big difference to the coming Syd-
ney sailing season. The war hit this pastime with
particular force. The 10-foot dinghies disappeared
altogether from racing, so many of the crews having
enlisted. Some new 16-foot skiffs have been ordered
and they may compete in the State Championship!
\\hich is the opening event. And two popular ls-
footers will reappear under racing canvas in Movana
and Sydney, both their owners being now back
again. Moyana will be steered as of yore by W. C.
Duncan, who gave a good showing against Kismet
and Australian in pre-war championships.
Old Bill Caffyn has just died in England
aged 91. He tripped with the pioneer English Xl’s
to Australia—with Stephenson’s in 1862 and Pan’s
in 1864. After the second tour he started a business
111 vi“ ey , and coached many rising players. Murdoch
and Charles Bannerman were among hi s pupils.
The inter-State ’Varsity eight-oar race
on the Parramatta River on Saturday provided tin-
youths from Melbourne with a little gentle exercise
Ihey won from Sydney Uni. by three lengths in
19min. 34jsec., but were never all out. They were
well suited by the perfect weather conditions,' owing
to which the harbor was as placid as the Yarn
itself.
* * * #
There was a curious football match in
Adelaide, in the middle of the Grand National week
between jockeys and “sports.” The one team was
fully half as heavy again as the other. The bovs
showed their agility, the men their “condition ”
and the result was a very even game, won bv the
heavyweights merely by virtue of a little straighter
* * # *
N. S. Wales 10-mile championship at Vic-
toria Park was a replica of tne flve-mile Tlmv
were only 22 starters, and Fitzsimmons made even
furlong a winner to break the tape in S6min. I0«ec
4sec. than when he won the title in 1911.’
The fact that light draught-horses lately
I £7r, Se on b n he „ A ’ l ; F ’ fetched an average of just on
±.75 each in England last week doesn’t mean that
their class was good: merely that the U.K. is suffer-
mg from a horse-famine. The ’Walers of the
Australian Army were, no doubt, worth close on a
hundied pounds apiece, trained and in condition, in
the early days. But such an animal with the
blemishes of five years’ active service on it would
be a vastly different proposition. As regards the
late-comers, it is notorious that the Diggers were
issued with the worst at Calais. Rightly or wrongly
they bore the reputation of being casual horse-
masters. That the British should have refused to
pay more than £l9 a head for A.J.F. mules can
only be ascribed to ultra-conservatism or ignorance
The Argentine mules which came to the A.I.F.
were a good lot to begin with, and after three
or four months’ service they proved superior, as
light draughts, to 90 per cent, of horses. The
r rench farmers who have seen their work have
rushed them.
* * *
Tim horse-butchering on the Adelaide
parklands still goes on. It has been going on more
or less for several winters, but this year’s experi-
ences are quite the worst. The lunatic responsible
used to employ a blunt weapon, but now he slashes
the throat with d sharp one. Either it is a fresh
lunatic—-which seems unlikely—or he has altered his
methods. There are various rumors afloat about its
being the work of an Asiatic with fancied religious
motives. Whoever he (or she) is he (or she) has
been clever enough to avoid detection, even though,
as in a recent case, three horses in one night were
dealt with. Tho parklands, running right round
the city, and from a third to half a mile wide, are
too vast to be completely patrolled; but manv
watchers are out nightly, and municipal bodies, as
well as the S.P.C.A., are offering increasing rewards.
One weak-minded youth has been placed under re-
straint, but obviously he was not the culprit, for the
butchery continues.
* * * *
Died at Glenelg (S.A.), aged 56, Peter
Farrelly, in charge of the baths there for many
years. His own dwelling was built out on piles,
like the dressing-rooms, and in several winter storms
he had to take his family ashore in the middle
of the night. He brought up the said family
to be mostly champion swimmers of either sex;
and they, and he, and his late dog King saved
many lives at many times.
* * • »
Australia’s dancing comedian Fred Les-
lie recently won the first competition held by
the English Stage Golfing Society. If Frederick can
manage to win it twice in succession the Oscar
Asche Cup is his for keeps.
* * * *
The “Indianapolis 500,” the premier motor
whiz of America, has been annpxed bv H. AVilcox,
who drove a Peugeot at an average of about 88 miles
an hour. This achievement is slightly worse than
the 1915 record of De Palma, who this year threat-
ened to smash his own performance or himself
strapped to a speedy Packard car. De Palma,
travelling at _ over 90 miles an hour, had the race
in his possession at the 250-mile mark, but stopping
unduly for fresh tyres and petrol he was overhauled
by Wilcox and others, and eventually finished sixth.
The second prize went to E. Hearne, on a D;;rant
(shr. 44min. 29sec., or 4min. behind the winner),
the third and fourth providing further booty for
France, which altogether had only six cars in motion.
Lacrosse gnt a boom in Brisbane recently
when the visit of a N. S. Wales team set the inter-
state contests going in the Northern capita] for the
first time since the war started. While that was on
engagements in Europe prevented laerossers from
providing amusement for the crowd that stayed at
home. N. S. Wales and Queensland associations each
had 80 per cent, of their members, in khaki, and
the Vic. Association sent along 600 members.
A SMALL GAME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We called him' something loud and free,
And tossed him through the door;
The night received him patiently
As something of a bore —-
He'd gone that way before.
He left behind him in the bar,
And scattered round the place,,
A hat, a cuff, a chewed cigar,
Some pieces of his face —
And the disputed ace.
lie didn’t mind our coltish play—
He took it with a leer —
Hut it was pitiful the way
lie whimpered for his ear. . . .
We found it in Hill’s beer 1
N.S.W.
W. M. W.


UNLESS YOU LEARN TO BOX YOU
I'*^
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BARER,
CAN’T EXPECT TO WIN!
You may have all the qualifications, but strength, determination and pluck,
without skill, will not avail you against a Scientific Boxer.
The Scientific Boxer is cool, calm and collected. He is constantly drawing
his opponent into position; puts the weight of his body behind his blows;
plants his punches where they are most felt; bewilders and confuses his
opponent by evading and countering his attempts to “land.”
The Scientific Boxer is master of his movements. His muscles are lithe and
elastic. He can hit from any position without “telegraphing” the blows.
You would surely like to be a Scientific Boxer —and'now is your opportunity
to learn.
V I TEACH BOXING BY POST.
The instruction is practical, simple, and easily under-
stood. It thoroughly explains and illustrates every
serviceable movement in Scientific Boxing.
You reap the benefit of my many years’ experience
and keen observation of the best moves of the
world’s best boxers.
You now have the opportunity of cultivating your
natural ability, of making good use of the means
which Nature gave you to protect yourself.
“SNOWY" BAKER K.O. BOXING GLOVES,
in two grades, 15/6 and 21/- per set of four
gloves. Post Free. Every set personally
selected and guaranteed.
Those desiring to avail themselves of personal in-
struction at my Institute are invited to call and
have a chat with me and see a demonstration.
Write for my FKEE BOOKLET, “Scientific Boxing
in the Home.” Send three stamps for postage.
Natural Health and Physical Culture Expert,
102 Municipal Buildings,
Oxford Bt. (Car. Orown St.), Sydney.
THE GREAT ,
Flight
r.
/
SHELL
BENZINE
WAS USED
in tlie Vickers-Vlmy Bombing
Aeroplane flown by Capt.
Alcock and Ifleut. A. W.
Brown.
CAPILLARINE
d
for
Quick
Results.
A splendid growth of Hair can be produced
on the upper lip by the aid of CAPIL-
LARINE. Make up your mind to grow the
Moustache, and start using CAPILLARINE
right away. A preparation of unfailing
merit.
PRICE 10/C JAR —POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOB
MINING. MILLING, etc.
TNCLUDING
STEAfI ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL BE POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO
THE SECRETARY,
Box 229 G.P.0.,
MELBOURNE.
THE GENERAL MANAGER,
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
THE SECRETARY,
Box 220 Q.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
Make Sure of“Quality'
In Your“Wool-Clip"
6
ante
{<
bit.
'/'WA*
u
mi
Si
By using
3
POWDER SHEEP DIP
All Dealers Supply.
MANUFACTURED (in Australia)
by
A. VICTOR LEGGO CQ. CO.,
Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane.
A Well-matured Tobacco at Last!
“NOSEGAY"
MANUFACTURED BY T. C. WILLIAMS, VIRGINIA, U.S.A.
Most Pipe-smoking Troubles come from Using Tobacco that is Tco New.
NOSEGAY does not bite the tongue!
NOSEGAY does not affect the nerves!
NOSEGAY burns down to the last particle in the pipe!
10/8 per lb. 5/4 P er ilb. 2/8 per ilb.
Postage—N.S.W.: 6d. for the first lb. and 3d. every additional lb.
Other States: Bd. for the first lb. and 6d. every additional lb.
SAMPLE TINS 1/3, Post Paid.
A. A. MARKS, 376 George St., Sydney,
Cigar and Tobacco Importer. BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE CITY.
A*-
Co
to*.
Universal Milling Machine
smrz'
JiT*
:
■ :
■ E. »/
wmmmim
SPECIAL FEATURES s
Square over-arm.
Constant speed single pulley
drive.
Sixteen changes of speed.
Sixteen changes of feed.
All sliding gears, no tumbler
gears.
All gears and shafts hardened
and ground.
Feed-box in knee.
Ail operating levers withfir
easy reach of operator.
Bronze bearings throughout.
One-piece elevating screw for
knee.
No universal joint for feed
drive.
Column and knee automatically
lubricated.
Delivery from StocK.
Lathes, Drilling Machines, Hacksaws, etc.
Woodworking Machines and Supplies.
Engineers’ Tools, Packings, Jointing and Waste.
Valves, Cocks and Enginee: s’ Brasswork of every description.
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.
490-492 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
Telephone, City 1753, two lines. When ordering please mention this paper.


M
'/R
m
W
THE
ROYAL
Self-
Heating
IRON
is the very latest benzine-burning laundry
help. The iron without a pump—no in-
tricate parts to get out of order. Use clean
benzine, strain it through a chamois, which
it runs through as water does through
muslin, and you’ll have no trouble.
ASK TO SEE IT.
In SYDNEY—AIex. Smith Etd.
F. Eassetter & Co. Etd.
Mark Foy’s Etd.
Nock & Kirby Etd.
The Civil Service Stores.
In BRISBANE—Barry & Roberts.
In PERTH—William Sandover & Co. -
Or the Agents will send it to any add ess in Aus-
tralia, post paid, on receipt of 30/-
Address—“ Royal Iron,” Box 98 G.P.0.,
Sydney.
Sydney's Premier
Private Hotel.
The “Ritz”
Cremorne,
On the Harbor Front.
Delightful 8 minutes’ Ferry Trip
from Circular Quay.
Electric Light and Lifts and all
conveniences usually associated with
First-class Hotels.
Steamers every few minutes all day
and night,
Tariff, from 10/6 per day, and
from £3/3/- per week.
Vanity Fair
vSiIK Gloves
For the opera toilette, the Glove of Kid. For the
outdoor frock, the Glove of Silk. For the former
we go to France. For the latter France returns
the compliment by sending to America. American
Silk Gloves are the World’s Best.
To the woman who loves fine needlework a visit to
the Vanity Fair Silk Mills would make clear the
reason why the Vanity Fair Silk Glove is
“The Quality Silk Glove of America.”
For here on the picturesque Schuylkill River, in the
largest Silk Glove Mill in America, are glove-makers
who are craftsfolk, born and trained in the tradi-
tions of fine glove making. And while the sewing-
machine is wondrously utilised Silk Glove making
still depends on skilled hands.
Every pair contains this Guarantee: —
“If these Gloves wear through at the finger-
tips at any time before they are washed, and
before the rest of the Glove lias had reasonable
wear, we will, upon receipt of this ticket
and your Gloves, replace them with a new
pair.”
THE SYDNEY AGENT FOR THE MILL IS
EMPOWERED BY US TO REDEEM THIS
GUARANTEE. f 8
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warners
Rust Proof
Corses
Billy Hughes liad his little Roman triumph
on Saturday. Collins-street was jambed
with Diggers and elderly ladies and flappers
and office-boys and prosperous unemployed,
and the procession wriggled through heaving
masses along the route. Billy’s car was en-
tirely hidden by admirers, but the little man
was perched high, and the cameras didn’t miss
him. Wearing a Digger’s hat trimmed with
wattle, and with an impromptu scarlet toga
surging over one shoulder, he waved his thin
hand and smiled feebly at the multitude.
•There was at first an abashed look in his dull
brown eye, and his general expression sug-
gested sheer physical weariness overcoming a
feeling of elation. Joe Cook was nowhere to
be seen, and a search-warrant would have
been necessary to find him in the confusion.
Most of the Cabinet, which met the con-
queror at Spencer-street, crawled along at
the tail-end of the disturbance, looking—-
and possibly feeling—like supers in a play.
But for Hughes himself gaps might have
occurred in the continuity of the demonstra-
tion, for three-o.uarters of an hour is a long
time to traverse five city blocks when the
car of triumph is being hauled by war
veterans. When the huzzas were dying down
just before the last lap was reached William
beat time with his hand and began to hum
“Australia Will he There.” From the master-
ful prompter the Diggers took the cue and
soon the civilian multitude swelled the
chorus.
Mrs. Hughes, in black and nigger-brown,
and with an arrangement of gold and green
leaves on top, remained all through a dim
dot in the background. At Spencer-street
she lost her husband in the tumult, and crept
by a calmer route to the Town Hall, where
she kept on the extreme edge of the en-
thusiasm under the vigilant guard of Gaud
Mayoress Cabena.
Premier Lawson, who was at Elphinstone
on Friday night, came to Melbourne on
Saturday morning to join in the welcome.
Later he accompanied the Little Man to
Bendigo and Castlemaine, letting his own
Government carry on as best it could for a
couple of days.
Billiims in the Defence Department were
given the morning off to enthuse. They
greatly appreciated the concession, as it
enabled many of them to get to Sandown
Park in good time for the first race, with
the result that the course had never pre-
viously accommodated such a huge crowd,
and the supply of racebooks was exhausted
nefore the opening event.
The Little Man dodged a “welcome” at Bal-
larat. The Mayor had a massive speech pre-
pared ; but when the Adelaide express rolled
in, secretary Deane in pyjamas waved i back
the gathering language and s-s-sh-ed tlie in-
formation that his chief was sleeping. Where-
fore the Mayor had to write a greeting and
hold over the oration. At Bacchus Marsh
the local council had better luck. Hughes
appeared, pumped out a few remarks to the
devoted dairymen of the district, and drank
the health of Queen Cow in milk. ,
State Government House has been the
scene of alarums and excursions through
the illness of Lieut.-Governor Irvine’s school-
girl daughter Nancy. Little miss has had
appendicitis and an operation.
Donald Mackinnon, M.L.A., ex-Director-
General of Recruiting, has just taken de-
livery of a memento which means more to
him than any of the kudos that went with
his war-time job. It is the Military Cross
won by his boy. sometime a lieutenant in
the Royal Highlanders.
Stock Exchange men have been brushing
the cobwebs off a, few dozen of the best Aus-
tralian fizz in preparation for a welcome to
Major-Gen. Edmund Tivey, their brother-
broker, just home by the Orsova.
Another well-known Western District
station Koolomurt, was bought last week by
Ben Chaffey, of Mildura. There is about
26,000 acres of it, and it was sold by the
trustees of the estate of the late James
Graham, of Elibank, South Yarra.
Cliveden is very excited. Admiral Grant
is staying there with his A.D.C. and orderly,
and there is a shiny red visitors’ book avail-
able for callers’ signatures. The Admiral
has the late Kitchener’s dog, and the pre-
cious animal goes out in state every day
with a sailor at the end of his string. So
Cliveden feels that it has reached its zenith,
and puts a little more powder on its nose.
The Everard Brownes spend a lot of time
golfing at Sandringham. Their last trip
brought them into a new ’Hu-wave, and
Mrs. Browne went down with a bad attack.
The hardy dame is now on her feet again,
and has gone home to Colac to tonic her
nerves.
No doubt it was his nautical training that
did it. At any rate, Joe Cook proved a
ringer at deck quoits. So deadly was his
aim towards the finish of the voyage to
Australia that he w r on a prize against all-
comers.
The Pudukota rajah, who has just de-
parted with his wife and child, is a fairly
good amateur-portrait painter. When he
visited Australia years ago he did an oil
of accountant Brentnall’s daughter, then a
child of about 12. It is an excellent like-
ness.
Mrs. Robert Blackwood and friend, Dr.
Helen Sexton, steamed off to England by
the Ormonde. Squatter Robert accompanies
his wife as far as Westralia. The tw T o
skirted voyagers will be away for some
months.
Hughes has brought back from England a
personal joke which is apparently copy-
righted for use wherever excited Diggers lay
hold on him and carry him shoulder high.
When he reaches the platform, or other
place for oratory, “A little more of this, and
1 shall be undone,” he confides to the public.
“In fact, if there were not ladies present, I
should remark that I am partly undone
already.” (Laughter.)
11.M.A.5. Australia now has a new
spiritual adviser in Chaplain-Major Alec
Tulloh, who lately came back from overseas’
service on the Platypus. Major Tulloh is
a son of the Tom Tullohs, of Portland, where
for many years dad Tulloh has been shire
secretary.
Midshipman Geoffrey Carter, son of Gor-
don Carter, of the Lands Department, is
attached to the battleship Renown, which
carried young Wales to Canada. Geoffrey,
who is a shipmate of Atlee Hunt’s bright
boy, had been storming drawing-rooms ever
since he arrived in England. During several
trips ashore he was admitted into ancient
castles previously impregnable to mere Aus-
tralians, and took tea with duchesses. And
had sugar, too.
The other Sunday Mrs. Bowes Kelly hos-
tessed an afternon frivol, whereat the star
guests were two English brides—Mrs. Gor-
don Ross Soden and Mrs. Charlie Army-
tage. The young people jazzed in the
hall, much to the horror of those who stand
for “the old Sibbath.” In the crush was
Margot Hooper, who is making ready to
flit to Honolulu for her wedding with her
naval fianc6, Paymaster Egerton.
Vera, the youngest of Alfred Deakin’s
daughters, is just out and about again. She
had severe concussion of the brain. A fall
on stone steps at her sister’s house put her
into hospital.
Florence Fawaz, here presented by Hum-
phrey and Co., is the most notable dramatic
soprano that Victoria has grown in recent
years. A pupil of Mrs. Wiedermann and
the Uni. Conservatorium, she has annexed a
pile of scholarships
and won enough bou-
quets to keep the
theatres in first-night
foliage for about a
decade. Professor
Laver, Fritz Hart,
the late Marshall
Hall—in fact, the
whole of the musical
profession—have re-
corded a unanimous
vote of confidence in
Florence’s voice, and
the Uni. Conserva-
torium is so con-
vinced of her promise
that it is taking the
unexampled step of
sending her officially
to America to sing in
opera. Percy Grainger has already signalled
a welcome from the U.S., and the director of
the Metropolitan Opera House, New York,
is waiting to give the Australian girl a
trial. Florence is starting off to her future
after a big farewell in the Town Hall, Sep-
tember 22.
Adelaide’s social ledger :
At the District Trained Nursing Society’s 25th
annual meeting the report told of more work and less
money. The committee has had to go to its stocking
for £325, and a branch in the eastern half of the city
(where it is badly needed) is threatened with a
funeral. There was a special vote of thanks to Dr.
A. A. Lendon, who has been president for 21 years.
Since the Armistice button-days have been rare
birds, but Friday brought us one with a “State
boys’ ” memorial as its objective. The idea is to
build a recreation hall at the Industrial School at
Edwardstown.
G. S. Melrose, just back from the Front, brought a
return ticket, and is due in England again in early
1920. There is a girl in the case. She is Ethel
Bake", a Londoner, whose war-work includes two
years as cook at a soldiers’ hospital and 18 months
as driver of a mail-van. Another engagement is
that of amateur-actress Edith Crowe to Maoriiander
F. S. Coote.
School girls took possession of the Oval on Friday
for a hockey match between the M.L.C. and St.
Peter’s C.S.G. The Anglicans scored a fairly easy
win, and the Governor duly handed them the chal-
lenge trophy.
A letter from the French Red Cross expresses
“profound gratitude” for the £12,153 which this
State cabled in March last. Lady Galway was
asked to see to its distribution, and the letter ex-
plains that the money is to be used for relieving
distress in devastated areas, and among war widows
and orphans, army nurses and blind and disabled sol-
diers.
Dr. Phcebe Chappie, who has spent two and a half
years with Queen Mary’s Army Auxiliary Corps, is
due this week.
As the strike is over at last suburban trains and
trams are restored to us, and factories are allowed
to use power. But lighting and cooking restric-
tions are still a worry.
Gertrude Owen, the YAV.C.A.’s new secretary,
has arrived, bringing fine references from her last
“place.” She was for five years general secretary
in Maoriland.
The Tasmanian Excellency has left us after a
day at the Victoria Park races with the State
Governor, and now Red Cross business lias taken
his local Ex', to Melbourne.
“Our Billy” had a tremendous reception in S. Aus.
It began at Port Augusta about five in the morning;
airman Butler accompanied his train over the final
stage to Adelaide, and when he reached the city, at
4 p.m., soldiers rushed the platform, swamping the
Parliament (which had come in from next door) and
all other dignitaries. The Diggers carried him on
their shoulders through the new Anzac Arch to the
Cheer-up Hut, where he was received by Sowden,
and kissed Mrs. Seager, the woman at the head of
that remarkable establishment. An hour later he
was addressing the R.S.A. at its Austral Gardens
home, and in the evening there was a Town Hall
reception. Cook was with him, but was quite over-
shadowed.
Audrey Lascelles, of Geelong, is being
pelted with congratulations on her engage-
ment to Dr. Roger St. Clair Stewart.
The marriage of Irma Caron and Marmion
“Storkey” Adams transpired, according to
prediction, at the Registrar’s office in Col-
lins-street last Friday morning. The bride,
a dainty little vision in white cloth, brought
her juvenile mamma along as promise of in-
herited youthfulness on her own part; the
’groom had his mater and a couple of old
friends to see fair play, and after much sign-
ing of many documents the little party ad-
journed to the Caf6 Frangais. Later in the
afternoon the newlyweds set out for the
Grampians. It was in accordance with the
eternal fitness of things that they should
get their marriage-lines from registrar
Clarke, for the names of the respective
fathers of all three of them were more or
less associated before either of the contract-
ing parties was born or thought of. “Stor-
key’s” parent had an interesting display of
gold-nugget models at the 1880 Melbourne
Exhibition, where Leon Caron conducted 1
the orchestral performance of an ode he
wrote for the occasion. And Marcus Clarke,
the registrar’s father, was a close friend
of the musician in those days, supplying
words for songs which were set to music
by Irma’s future dad.
It is understood at Australia House, Lon-
don, that Douglas iceid, eldest son of the
late S’George, is to go to the Commonwealth
with a view to following in father’s political
footsteps. Meanwhile he is to marry a
war-widow, blessed with a family of one.
This generation of Reids seems very ready
to undertake extra responsibilities in matri-
mony. Miss Thelma, the only Reid daughter,
changed her name to Cleaver at the instance
of a Liverpool lawyer, who was a widower
with a family.
The wedding of the Frank Maddens’
fourth chick, Sheelah, and Lieut.-Colonel
Ilindhaugh was an event of Tuesday at
Scots’ Church. The bridal chiffonery was
temporarily boxed in July, when the bride-
groom was ordered into hospital for an
operation. The date had to be altered again
when Sheelah fell ill with influenza.
On Tuesday of last week Surgeon-Lieut.
Carlton Ellis, of the Cerberus, and Clarice
Byrne were made one at St. John’s, Toorak.
The bride, who was handed over by Mr.
Leslie Stuart, rustled in ivory satin and
silver tissue, with silver leaves binding her
bridal veil of tulle to her brow. The brides-
maids were the Leslie Stuarts’ pretty little
girls, Nanette and Lavender, both dressed
in delphinium blue with pink-wreathed
rustic hats. Mrs. Stuart, who hostessed the
bridal tea at Logan House, was in brown
satin with a flower-wreathed toque. Pay-
master Bailey Jones and Commander Robin-
son supported the bridegroom, and a dozen
brother officers formed a guard of honor on
the church steps. The bridal pair’s trium-
phal chariot was dragged to the wedding
feast at Logan House by 16 sailors. When
the honeymooners started off for Sydney
the guests wound up with a jazz party.
Peter Dawson has been saying and singing
farewell to his Melbourne friends, some of
w T hom last week stayed him with flagons
and comforted him with olives at Scott's
Hotel. Peter had intended lingering in his
native land, but word has arrived from Lon-
don {lie doesn’t pretend that it is a Royal
command) that John Bull is avid for enter-
tainment, so the singer is off to rake in the
shekels while the going is good. He isn’t
the sort to relish the idea of “benefit”
matinees in his old age.
Ormond Professor Laver is preparing to
launch son Laurence in the musical Mel-
bourne set. Pianist Laurie is a Melbourne
’Varsity boy with two years’ European
experience. His concert, in the Town Hall
on September 10, will show what he can
do with concertos of Grieg and Schumann.
There will also be music by a professional
orchestra, with the Professor shaking che
baton.
If another wise Australian head with
horsehair on it can help Labor to keep cool
and get on with the job, Justice Mann.
recently appointed
president of the
Court of Industrial
Appeals, will be one
of the most valuable
functionaries in the
Commonwealth. T.
Humphrey and Co.
present this view of
the brilliant Vic-
torian lawyer who
ascended the Su-
preme Court Bench
with learned brother
“Billy” S c h u 11.
Schutt will probably
have the easier time.
The ordinary judicial
work goes on with-
out the crowd being
aware of it. But
the Judge whose decisions directly affect
thousands of workers and the food or con-
venience of the million is more in the spot-
light than any actor. Ilis court is the con-
tinent, and there is plenty of talking in it,
for no official can stand up in Melbourne
and bellow “Order!” so that it can be heard
at Cape York.
Artist Ted Colies will walk down the
gangway of the Suevic in Melbourne at the
end of this week. He left Australia in Feb-
ruary, 1915, and sent back vivid battlefield
prose-pictures. Bulletin readers will re-
member his description of a tour through
the galleries of Gallipoli. If he gets his
pencil and brush to work on some of those
memories there should be another art-show
worth seeing.
Artists may stand around and criticise
Daryl Lindsay’s drawing, but the Diggers
who roll in call the effects dinkum. “It’s
just the real thing,” say the boys who have
been there. Daryl felt modestly alarmed at
the prices his management put on the pic-
tures ; but the chief batch of the collection
was hurriedly red-spotted before half the
art-lovers in Melbourne could draw their
cheque-books.
Marion Jones, who bagged a scholarship
at the National Gallery, has been allowed
to postpone her departure for Europe until
February or March of 1920. Clever little
Marion is about five-feet-notliing, and if she
elects to hide behind her easel when 1920
comes, she will take some finding.
The Glaciarium carnival on Saturday had
a Butterfly Ballet, designed and produced
by manager Douglas Russell. It showed
that it is as easy to dance on ice as on
wood if you know how. The star performers,
Bobby Jackson and Louise Larsen, have
just signed a dancing contract with the
J.C.W. people. When the butterflies made
a whirl of filmy drapery and gorgeous color-
ing the watching crowd rose and cheered.
A heavy cotton-wool snow-storm lighted with
Chinese lanterns raged above the ice, which
was flanked with snowgirt fir-trees. Bobby
and Co. ended the show with a wild but
graceful tango. The local peerage was there
to see the George Armytages’ only daughter
give an exhibition of her'skill. Amongst
the onlookers were various groups of the
Armytage clan, Baillieus in dozens, and
some of the Lascelles family.
Plumpton Wilson denies that he has be-
come an actor-manager in the West. He
admits bashfully that he is only “an artist
in the company,” and “otherwise had no in-
terest in the show whatever.”
_ One of the smart revels planned for race-
time is the Bachelors’ Ball, scheduled for
the eve of the Caulfield Cup. It is to be as
luxurious as they can make it, with plenty
of champagne and food. The hosts include
Captains Geoff. Strachan, Kilby and Harry
Whiting, backed up by Keith Allard, Keith
Antony and some others. The invita-
tions will probably be framed in gold by
the girls who get them. The music is to be
poured out by an orchestra of 20 or 30.


u
'•
m
k t mm
X.
5;?
H
-
■•■■•'■ Vx /
’ J 9
/i v-.W*
Gen Sir Douglas Haig
Copyright Watson's No. 10 Whisky.
A NEW SERIES OF HISTORY MAKERS.
THE above portrait of Earl Haig is one of a new series of drawings specially executed
for us by W. Jardine. Reproduced on the finest of art paper, and being entirely
free from advertising matter, they make, when framed, a charming acquisition to the home.
The complete set, consisting of Admiral Sir D. Beatty, Earl Haig',
General Sir W. Birdwood, General Sir W. Robertson,*
General Foch, Vice-Admiral Sir F. C. D. Sturdee, will be
sent to any address on receipt of six penny (Commonwealth) stamps. As the production
is limited, we advise you to write and secure a set immediately to
JAMES WATSON & CO. LTD., 26 King Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
™aJx>cyri/>
-atet-
Scotch tr'/uf* l
Ival’ivn 4 (5' *"
J
'sss///^//y//y///y////y///y^////////''^
m
/ //Sss*rsS//ssS/V.
>S/S//XX%Z
N?IO


Charles
NeidsieckS
Vintage IVG6
CBMffi
NE PLUS DLTRfI
WSPJM*
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Smart Gowns for
All Seasons.
Once more gaiety
and festivity hold
sway. You have
little time to place
at the disposal of
your costumier, but
more than ever you
need smart, rev
gown s. By the
Shave model fitting
system you are
assured a' perfect
fit without the in-
convenience of try-
ing on. The name
“Shave” stands for
the last word in
style and distinc-
tion.
ď
Visits to Sydney and Adelaide twice
and to Brisbane once vearlv.
SHAVE,
Ladies’ Tailors , Centreway,
Dressmakers, Melbourne.
We invite you to our next Display.
HOSIERY!
GLOVES!
UNDERWEAR!
4/9 pair.
Other qualities 5/6. 7/6 pair
Vrrwft” HEAVY-WEIGHT PURE SILK
HOSE, every pair guaranteed ladder-proof. Sold
in shops 25/- pair. From us, in black only—
-16/6 Pair
“OMP’ ARTIFICIAL SILK ANKLE
HOSE, Australian made, noted for splendid dye
and good wear. In black,' white and brown—
3/6 pair
“HOVE” AMERICAN COTTON SING-
LETS. very long and full size. Short sleeves
4/11 value for 2/11 each
KAVSER AHLANESE HOSE, in Mastic,
Navy and White 16/11 pair
MAIL ORDERS SPECIALLY CATERED FOR.
SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
The Dove Hosiery Stores,
Australian Buildings, 49 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne
r
1
v-L.\_» i nw. i oimn. i ivilinu i ntM WIIH
Mend -a -"[ca>r
THAT WONDERFUL NEW MATERIAL WHICH
MENDS WITHOUT STITCHES. IT S SO NEAT.
SO EFFECTIVE AND SO SIMPLE TO USE. I DO
REPAIRS IN A OUARTER THE TIME
Obtainable through all Drapers,
Stores, Cycle Agencies and Motor
Garages.
Sample Outfit Post Free on
Receipt of 1/4.
Sole Wholesale Distributors for N.S.W. and
Queensland—
Bennett 8 Barkell Ltd.
Meagher Street, SYDNEY.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
DAVID
JONES
for
SMART
MILLINERY
In the interests of the Peace Loan a flight
of blase, bored and somewhat soiled doves
were set free in Martin-place on a day last
week. After flapping around for a bit, and
peering sleepily at the buildings, they nomi-
nated P.M.G. Webster’s institution the Mecca
of the siesta-seeker. Jf doves had been given
the faculty of yawning they would have
raised a covering claw to their beaks, with
a sleepy beg-pardon. On other days Holden,
M.G., grapevined around the angles of sky-
scrapers, ’planed down hillocks of air, one
minute executed a brilliant isosceles triangle
over a roof-garden, the next looped the loop
above a chimney-pot. It was a great enter-
tainment for the boys and girls in their
lunch-hour. How much the Loan will benefit
is quite another bird.
Joe Cook was met by his titled lady in
Melbourne, and together they at once came
on to home and Sydney. The Minister for
ir ai m v y was a “ore affable party onboard
H.M.T. Friedetcetera than his distant
friend William. Little Billy kept to his
cabin nearly all the way from Durban to
h remantle a smooth passage, by the way,
until almost within sight of land, in spite
of stories to the contrary. O.C. troops on
board was Colonel Caddy, who has had
nearly five years with the field-gunners, and
brings home surely one of the most complete of
war-diaries in existence. Of course they had a
paper on board —the Last Post —edited by
a young Sydney major who in peace-times
p ayed with The Bulletin’s Wild Cat. Mr.
Hughes was one of the contributors.
Not many poets have such a master as
Jodelet to illustrate their poems; hut
Ludovic Leblanc, who is in charge of the
Lxhdntmn of French war pictures at the
Art Gallery, points with pride to the beauti-
ful work the artist has created around his
poem, “La Gloire.” The pictures are to be
sold for the relief of the families of the
artists——all soldiers —who used pencil and
brush in the front lines, in hospitals and in
German prison-camps. Some of the men
have been killed, many wounded and some
will never recover from the privations un-
dergone rfs prisoners. Billjim caught the
fancy of young Bene Biessy. who gives
several examples of the Digger as seen by
French eyes. Another well-known name is
that or de Lesseps, whose grand-pere was
the famous engineer of Suez and Panama.
Georges Scott, Bruyere, Arnac. Fouqueray,
with names that call up brilliant Le Chi
de Paris and Le Bike, crowd the walls.
May M. Leblanc have a ready sale and a
big remittance to send to the beloved of
“the boys”!
Lady Davidson, with Daphne and Diana
hanging on to her skirts, and a lonely young
genthelp in attendance, opened the Sweet
Pea Show. With all the super-sweet peas
flaunting their yard-long stems, and blossoms
that rivalled the rose in opulence, tin l (om-
mittee made the mistake of presenting the
Governor’s lady with a hard bunch of sto-ks.
Lady Davidson was in black, with a witch-
like black velvet hat, and a heavy tail from
her muff dangled before her. Other tails
and feet and legs fell elsewhere. Her speech
gave the Show three cheers, but she deplored
the scanty audience, evidently unaware of
that fact that the entrance fee was 2s. (id.
(and no jazz or tea). After four o’clock,
when the fee was reduced to a bob, the audi-
ence grew larger.
Lady Davidson returned from her country
tour last week. She was the guest of Mrs.
B. E, Rawlins at Forbes and of Mrs. W.
A. Priddle at Grenfell. At Parkes, Gren-
fell and Forbes social afternoons were held
to give the nobs an opportunity of making
their best vice-regal bobs.
Miss Badham, principal of the Church of
England Girls’ Grammar School, has been
fighting for her valuable life in Lister Pri-
vate Hospital. Blood-poisoning following
a mere scratch is the cause of the trouble.
Captain Cumberlege, of the Australia, is
expecting his wife and family to arrive in
Sydney shortly. He has taken a flat out
Bellevue Hill way.
The mirrors of Sargent’s ballroom re-
flected the slim ankles and the pretty “un-
touched” head of youth at the Riverview
Boys’ dance last week. There was an inti-
mate party feeling about.the blue and white
re-union, which was chaperoned by old-boy
Dr. Humphrey Oxenham and lrs tall, good-
looking wife —she in the softness of French
grey. The boys had gathered in some of
the prettiest girls of the year, among whom
shone the dark head of Berenice Kenny—
sister to Kenny. V.C. —and Moira O’Hal-
loran, the only debutante star of the even-
ing. Tulle and satin and beautiful lace, an
armful of blooms and a delicate white fan
went into her outfit. Mrs. Coyle brought
her Judge and a dress all apricot silkiness.
Other colleges were represented by Mrs.
Waddell and Mr. Sloman. The Bridges were
there, and Rosalie Collins in blue taffeta and
pink buds; Dorothy Meagher, looking like a
new-blown daffodil; Mrs. Neil Macdonald
with her daughters and son Will’s wife;
Gladys Oxenham all in white; and his Rev-
erence Gartlan, throwing the college benedic-
tion over all.
Kiltie-comedian Lauder’s pink-cheeked and
pink-feathered lady was the guest of honor
at a tea given by the wife of Surgeon Mait-
land at the Australia last week. The newly-
decorated drawing-room was fresh as paint
and sweet-pea and red-tipped gums could
make it, and a whole Springtide choir of
sweet notes came from the aviary behind the
piano, where the musicianly Mowat. Carters
and contralto Lilian Gibson were caged.
Hostess Maitland carried what Thackeray
spoke of as a bowpot of violet and mauve
and pink sweet-peas against the dark-blue of
her dress; and Miss Cooke, who helped her
sister to see that everyone got at least one
lump of sugar, acknowledged the presence
of Spring in the coolness of her froeking.
Others of the guests had glimpsed the maid,
too, judging by a lightsome touch here and
there; but the proud possessor of ermine or
sable still hugged her best tippet.
Three brilliant Australian girls have been
packing their vanity-bags and are off to
advance their studies in older lands. All are
Sydney Uni. girls. Leila Thomas, M.A.. is
on her way to the London School of Econo-
mics. Her mind is on labor problems. There
are several of them. Kathleen Murray,
8.A., won the James King travelling scholar-
ship. and her intended base is Paris. Doris
Rivett. the first girl to win the Woolley
scholarship, is also keen on Economics, and
will pursue the monster at Cambridge and
London for two years. Independent think-
ing—that’s the motto of the Rivett house-
hold.
The younger daughter of the Bellevue
Hill Whites (they’re the Clarr.v Whites of
Armidale) is wearing the engagement-ring
given to her by Captain lan Macdonald,
M C., of Melbourne. This is the blossoming
of a romance that took root when she was a
flapper and he a youth juckerooing on
'White acres. Elder sister Nancy is to wed
in the near future; her young man is one
of the Glen Innes Cunninghames, who had
to change their name from Robertson some
years back in order to inherit an entailed
Scottish estate.
Sydney girl Ara Fitzgerald won a double
when, as the tragic Lucia and the sparkling
Rosina in “The Barber of Seville,” she cap-
tured the exacting
public of Milan.
Mother and Signor
Steffani trained her
infant notes in
Sydney; then, in
1912. Paris and its
great master Bouhy
took her in hand;
next to Milan, where
G. Borghi and Er-
nesto Colli put the
final polish to a
voice that the critics
speak of as a true
leggiero soprano, of
the Tetrazzini and
Galli Curci type.
As early as 1914 she
made her debut as
Violetta in “Trav-
iata” and Gilda in
“Rigoletto”: then came the war, and with
it the closing of the theatres. Her acting
is a source of wonder to the Italian critics:
“quite like the work of an old hand, not a
debutante,” says one who goes on to speak
of the “delicate and refined quality of the
voice,” and declares that “only Tetrazzini
had such wonderful agility and staccati
stupendi.” In her pigtail days Ara had
stage experience with the Bland Holt Com-
pany—she and Dot Brunton played the boy
and girl in “The Bondman.” Her proud dad
is Minister J. D. Fitzgerald.
Milan has quite a colony of clever young
Australian students, another very successful
one being Cecil Sherwood, the Harbor Front
tenor who has entered upon a most promis-
ing operatic career, his latest appearance
being in Rome.
i n October Cora Macdonald marries
her Melbourne youngr man. lie is one of
the Gibsons, of Foy and Gibson.
St. Mary’s will wear frills for the military
wedding on October 9 of Major Jack Chap-
man, a son of Austin Chapman, M.H.R.,
with Miss Booten, a Belgian girl whom the
Major met in England. Lieut.-Col. McCall,
who did his five years’ service, will give the
bride away, and his son, Major J. J. L.
McCall, D. 5.0., together with the groom’s
brother, Captain Chapman, will be grooms-
men. The ’groom’s sisters will attend upon
the bride.
Major J. J. L. McCall, D. 5.0.. who re-
turned to Sydney last week after four years’
service, is engaged to the girl he left be-
hind him, Rita Murphy, daughter of the
late J. Murphy, of Bantry, Haberfield.
. Phil Caro comes back to Sydney with a
laudatory letter from Gen. Birdwood and a
good-looking English bride. The accumula-
tion of good looks in that family is becoming
a scandal.
The Glassy Harem had what was probably
the most thoroughly respectable carnival in
the memory of man last Thursday night.
The costumes were gay enough, but the
spirit of Frivol was kept on the leash by
the sober-looking teams that took the ice.
Everybody behavted like perfect ladies and
gentlemen. Nobody whacked anybody on
the head with bladders. Even the devils,
despite their Satanic garb, were dull sparks.
The Hayseeds and the Keystone policemen
tried to liven things up, but the ice was
never really broken. The red coats of the
hunters, the black and white of the magpies,
draught-board, pierrette, Rajah, Chinese
mandarin. Stiffy’s wedding party, a hand-
some black Prince and a glittering Joan of
Arc—these and all the old nursery rhymes
came to life; and kewpie, Old Guard, and
Charlie C. swept and circled over the
polished surface with a sobriety that was
almost solemn. Like the low sweeping Might
of some marsh bird were the exquisite move-
ments of manager Dunbar Poole; and the
Continental and amateur pair-skating were
graceful and brilliant displays.
Word comes over the sea, printed in the
language of the Entente Cordiale, that on
a May morning in France, Marcelle
Devismes, fille de Madame Victor Devismes,
of LongprAles-Corps Saints (Somme),
became the bride of Marshall James
AlacNamara. “Lieutenant attache an
Quartier General Australian,” at the village
church of Longpre. The groom in the case
left Aussie in 11)15 with the A.S.C., and is
a son of Andrew MacNamara, of Balmain.
( Mrs. Fred Horsley, of Yabtree station,
Gundagai, who came to town some time ago
and took a house at Elizabeth Bay in order
to give her returning war-worker daugh-
ters, Gwen and Mabel, a taste of city fes-
tivities. welcomed two real Aussie girls whose
one desire was to escape the town and get
back to their horses and their home life.
Mabel has already pushed up-country.
The Repat. Social Club burst into a Peace
Ball the other night, and this is its second
blooming since the Armistice ; the first was
a Victory bud. The feature of last week’s
dance was the Twilight Waltz at 9.30 —by
special request of the A.i.F. Prompt to
the tick the lights went down. (The girl
at home is ready and willing to go through
life in inky blackness if it will help to
counteract the pernicious influence of over-
seas charmers.) The Allied Flags, some-
what drooping, struck the proper martial
note, and the Paddington Town Hall echoed
with jazzery till the small hours.
For nearly two hours the golden voice of
elocutionist Eleanor Ross spilled its charm
at her Conservatorium recital; and listeners
carried away a delightful memory of the
Oscar Wilde fairy tale with its Liza Leh-
man accompaniment. Composer Ramsay
Pennicuick at the piano won and received
his mead of praise.
Colonel Maguire, D. 5.0., who enlisted in
August 1914, and went away with Neville
Ilowse, and has since February been doing
post-graduate work at Middlesex Hospital,
has lost his young wife, from septicaemia,
following on an operation in a London nurs-
ing home. Airs. Alaguire did a lot of valu-
able war-work in Sydney before she and her
baby-son and her sister (Aliss Trixie Dive)
went to London in 1916; she had been,
among other things, sec. of the Ninth Field
Ambulance Comforts Fund.
The Bruntons gave a dance last week at
Gladswood, which used to be Glenyarrah
when the Kellys had it. The drawing-room
makes a perfect ballroom; its big windows
hnd doorways catch every desirable breeze
that blows. All the younger jazz enthusiasts
the Rolins, Pat Levy, George Alerivale, a
Laidley girl, and so on—were there; and
the business of dancing was entered on with
such seriousness that no one patronised the
inimitable sitting-out places which the gar-
den affords. As a matter of fact, with the
arrival of the jazz sitting-out lias ceased to
be fashionable.
Other dance-vivers of the week were the
Andrews, who live at Eynesbury with the
Goulds. She was a Miss Gould. He, having
been rejected for the Army, became secretary
of_ the Australian Club when Colonel Tun-
bridge (as he now is) left for Egypt
It is probable that the Rajah of Pudu-
kota and his lady will in future be seen in
Australia only on brief visits. His passion
for Australia has never appealed to the
British Government, which has just initiated
a policy of influencing native rulers to stav
at home as much as possible. In the past
cosmopohtan Indians, such as the Maharajah
of Cooch Behar, Sir Pertab Singh and Prince
ilhuleep Singh (who married the Earl of
Coventry s daughter), lived rather more in
London and Paris than in their own coun-
try. The Pudukotas are going to London
to arrange about sending their small bov to
a preparatory school, anti putting his name
down for a house at Eton : and after that
may begin the bleak life of a S. Indian
palace.
About 300 of the pure-bred merinos of the
Archbishop’s flock crowded the floor of St.
James’s Hall on Saturday night in the in-
terests of St. Luke’s Hospital. Mrs
Rabett arranged the decorations, which were
very pretty, and the flowers of the fold
sheathed themselves in their sleekest gar-
ments.
The Christian. Brothers’ bazaar, opened in
St. Mary’s Parish on Saturday, is one of
a series of local efforts on behalf of the
Christian Brothers’ Jubilee. With Arch-
bishop Kelly was his Grace of Rockhamp-
ton, the youngest bishop in Australia.
Here’s the photo of an Aussie girl who has
gone all th(> way with the boys, beginning in
November, 11)14, and she has not finished yet.
There was, about her
work, none of the
“more or lessness”
against which Rud-
yard kippled, and if
anybody wears a
decoration with pride,
Sister Nellie Morrice,
R.R.C., ought to.
Ghezirch and Lemnos
knew her until the
Gallipoli evacuation:
then Ismnilia had
proof of her skill
until 1916. Nor had
she rest on the jour-
ney from Alexandria
to England, for on
flu 1 way she did duty
on the hospital ship
Letitia. The authori-
tics scarcely gave her time to file her nails
in England before she was sent to France;
and Peace found her at her post at No. 25
British General Hospital at llardelot. Aus-
tralia saw her again in March. 1919, and
she is now matron of No. 21 A.A’ll., Sydney.
The do Kurylo twosome showed what
their bodies, legs, arms, ten fingers and ten
toes (20 apiece in the aggregate) could ex-
press of the Polish-bred Terpsichore at the
Conservatorium last Friday. The pick of
the pupil-basket also got a leg in. Mrs.
Goossens-Viceroy raised a tuneful note, and
Cyril Monk freed the tenderness of Liszt
and Schubert with his magic bow.
Poet Peter Austen, of the blue eyes and
neckties, will be dropping a farewell tear
over Sydney in a week or two. He’s been
sunning himself in Brisbane, and writing
poems, and now lie’s off to Egypt once more
by the Orsova. They say that those who
drink the waters of the Nile always return
to the land of the Gyppy and the camel.
And with the poet who catches the gleam of
Cleopatra’s eyes, and basks in the witchery
of the near-by Aegean, the spell works over-
time.
By the way, Rupert Brooke’s mother has
written a very sweet and charming letter to
young Austen, and is sending the Australian
boy a little personal souvenir of her son.
The preparations for the ball in aid of
the Crown-street Women’s Hospital, to be
held in the Paddington Town Hall on the
24th, are cheering un secretary Mona Daley.
Everything points to success.
As a wind-up to nearly five years’ pleas-
ant association and hard work, the executive
of the Ist. 10th and 12th F.A. Brigades
Comforts Fund gave a party at the Waratah
rooms, and presented its president, Mrs.
Macarthur King, with a basket of violets
and a gold wristlet-watch. Dorrie Ward, Elsie
lluxtable and Val Woods sang in between
the teacups’ clatter, with Miss Ploughman
at the piano.
Mayoress Richards and Mrs. Trefle are
mothering a ball in aid of the Baulkham
Hills Orphanage. The Orphanage is under
the care of the Sisters of Mercy, Parramatta,
and a year of sickness and distress has left
the funds very low. So the Paddington
Town Hall is to be the scene of another
gaiety in the early Spring.
The District Nursing Association got a
lift at the annual meeting of its North Side
branch. One nurse has paid 2482 visits to
the sick in 12 months (is her salary as large
as a 'member of Parliament’s?), and her
area lies between Mosman and Gore Hill.
Dr. Arthur moved three cheers for the work
that was being done, and the call was
enthusiastically endorsed by Mrs. Antill,
Mrs. David and Padre Ilowell-Price.


Hardy Brothers Ltd.,
Established >853. Established 1853.
JEWELLERS.
DIAMOND
JEWELLERY.
Hardy Bros. Etd. Specialise In
Highly-finished Diamond Ornaments,
the Illustration being; but represen-
tative of the Verv Choice Selection
Available.
A Special Feature is made of Re-
Mounting; Old-fashioned Jewellery
in Modern Styles. I)esig;nH and
Estimates Submitted Free of Charge.
AN ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
SENT POST FREE-ON REQUEST.
FIVE PER CENT. DISCOUNT
ALLOWED ON ALE CASH
TRANSACTIONS.
HBU
Fine Diamond and Plati-
num Pendant, complete with
Platinum Chain in Case,
£845.
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
298 Collins Street. Melbourne. 116-118 Queen Street. Brisbane.
AND AT LONDON.
A Beginner in Photography
Can Make Beautiful Prints
€f
on
SELTONA
9 9
The Finest Printing' Paper of the Ag'e.
The printing of “Seltona” is so simple it can be done by anyone
without any previous experience.
Prints in Daylight—Tones Itself,
Expose in the open —in sunlight if the negative is dense—in the
shade if it is thin; you can watch the picture coming up. When it
is fully printed just fix in hypo, and wash.
Our new shipment just opened is of beautiful quality—gives lovely
prints free from blemishes, in rich dark brown tones, as may be
required.
In Glossy, Matt Smooth, Cream Smooth, Antique White and Cream,
Linique and Boardoids.
All Sizes, V.P.R. to x 2U inches -/9pkt.
All Sizes, 5x3 inches (2C) to s£-plate 1/4 „
Postcards, Court Size (%-plate) I/- „
Postcards, Full Size x 3tf»in.) 1/4 „
Whole-plate (8 % x 6}&in.) 1/10 „
Also a full range of Cameras, including
ENSIGNS (British=made), KODAKS,
BROWNIES and ANSCOS.
We invite your inspection. Send for Catalogue if you live out of town.
METALLURGICAL and ASSAY WORK.
Our Laboratories are equipped'with tlie most up-to-date appliances for
all classes of Metallurgical and Assay Work, Ore-testing and Chemical Analysis.
We specialise in the treatment of Jewellers’, Dentists’ and other Metal-
workers’ Sweeps,’ Residues and Waste Products, every grain of metal that is
of value being extracted.
WE RESERVE REFERENCE SAMPLES of every order until settle-
ment is complete, and collect material to be treated in city or suburbs
free of charge. A note or ’phone message to nny of our branches will
receive prompt attention.
Photographic and Cinematographic Merchants,
Metallurgists, Analysts and Assayers,
386 George Street, Sydney.
93-95 Queen Street, Brisbane.
144 Queen Street, Auckland.
266 Collins Street, Melbourne.
43 Bundle Street, Adelaide.
42 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Laboratories and Works: Booth and Trafalgar Streets, Annandale.
X'X
*
m
y
*
Water-Cooled
Hopper
Outside Igniter
Support s*,,,
Protected
Fuel Tank'
Pressed Steel
Skids
Speed
Regulator
Built-in
Magneto
Crank Caso
Shield
Look at this Engine.
COMPARE IT WITH OTHERS.
Where can you buy an engine
anything like it at the price ?
TYPE Z FAIRBANKS MORSE
C VERY farm should have a reliable engine, large enough to drive not only light
H machines about the farm, like churns, separators, and so on, but one that effectively
yr operates Sawbenches, Pumps, Feed Mills, Grinders, Corn Shelters, Shearing
Machines and other machines, without “sticking you up” when you least expect it.
You cannot take the chances with an engine that may—you must be sure that it will start when you want it, in all weathers, drive
any load, use the cheapest fuel and work continuously day after day, year after year.
That is where the wonderful Type “Z” Engine shines, and no farmer or engine-buyer can afford to ignore the superior engine power,
low fuel cost and reliability that they obtain in the Type “Z” Engline—the most popular throughout Australia. Everything that a
farm-engine should possess is contained in the Type “Z” Engine, and no efforts have been spared in making every detail perfect.
USES CHEAP FUEL.—Type “Z” is built for kerosene, and gives continuous service on this low-grade fuel without fouling valves and plugs, like
the majority of so-called Kerosene Engines.
EASY STARTING.—BuiIt-in Magneto, guarantees quick starting even on the coldest morning. Ignition system is simple, positive and reliable—
always ready with a full, hot spark every time.
FUEL SUPPLY.—FueI tank is located in the sub-base of the engine, and fuel is fed by a pump; a continuous supply is always on the spot.
THROTTLING GOVERNOR. —The Type “Z” maintains a uniform speed on any load. The governor gives an accurately proportional mixture for
the charge, as well as a uniform cylinder temperature, giving greatest power, economy in fuel, and a uniform speed, regardless of the load,
even in the coldest weather
SPEED CONTROL.—The majority of engines “play up” when switched from one job to another, but
- ' Clio TvnA “7.” is simnbed
the Type “Z” is not one of them. In addition to the Throttling Governor the Type “Z” is supplied
with a Speed Control, which permits varied speed while the engine is running, and the Governor main-
tains that speed religiously.
WATER COOLED.—Water-cooling Hopper is built in, and a liberal supply of water-cooling space is
provided around the cylinder and valves, insuring a cool valve and seat which guarantees good com-
pression.
LUBRICATION.—Piston and Piston-ring are Lubricated by a sight-feed lubricator, and all other
working parts by compression grease-cups. There are many other features, including two fly-
wheels, removable bushes, removable cylinder-head, and many other important features.
Last, but not least, whether you buy a 11, 3,6, 10 or 15 B.H.P. Type “Z” Engine, that is only the name-plate
rating. Many times you will want more power, and the Type “Z” gives it to you.
You can only judge Type “Z” Engines by comparing them with others, by hearing what Australian users have
to say about theirs. Write to your nearest of the following agents, asking for booklet describing the Type
"Z,” together with price of the engine you want.
Dangar, Gedye & Co., Ltd., 9-13 Young Street, SYDNEY.
J. Bartram & Son Pty., Ltd., 586-583 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd., 99 Eagle Street, BRISBANE.
Jas. Wardle & Co., Victoria Square West, ADELAIDE.
Malloch Bros., 52-54 William Street, PERTH.
A. G. Webster & Sons, Ltd., HOBART.
m
V.«
.
*
mi
e. 2as


NV
!!!!!! ii?V\ WM
it;*!'
)) %!!
*
Ifjt
I?-,
mam
abaft
&
Si..:
mm
ilitll
It' >1
=
will
1 Best * always wins
'T'HERE’S a BEST way to
1 sing a song, thread a needle,
or sweep a floor. The best way to
make Collars is thoroughly under-
stood in the PELACO workrooms.
To such an extent has this “best
way ’ ’ been studied that PELACO
Collars always “win” with men
who demand the utmost in style,
quality and service.
Reliable Mercers everywhere sell
Made in
COLLARS
Australia
“THERE’S MONEY IN THE PEN."
£
The above;
is the title*
of our book-
let, which
tells about
the possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
bv lIARRY J.
WKSTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
difference between
■ learning to CORY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains, in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is 1
the most success-
ful.
Send three
penny stamps
to-day for a
copy of this
booklet—
“THEßE’S
MONEY
IN
THE
PEN.”
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal .School of Drawing,
145 Waltham Building's, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY.
Do You Know
Esterbrooks Pen Nibs?
A RE you satisfied with the nibs vou are using?
A If not, write ESTER BROOK, Box 98
G.P.0., Sydney, describing the qualities you
like in a nib. Send 2ld. in stamps for cost of
postage on free samples.
AGNES PLATT,
4 Manchester St., London, W. England.
Advice given on plays, novels, cinemas.
Manuscripts placed. Plays produced.
Correspondence course in stage, novel
and cinema technique.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
** f tyt&ifpy*, i;" l^ "n|#! ■» y
m
.■
m
mm
MAOC
Perfection
RUBBER.
I»o Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centurajh.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army aud Navy men.
Used since 15»6. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLINC EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT,
Sb GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England
Insist on “Singleton's”-refuse all substitutes.
'lll,
Wn
imiiiiin’i i
inilo y'ou.r 9
Service f/iQ Stipar*/>
an.c{ So-per-e^icieni:
'll
1 ~1 I
-andyoci /xaVe crt
your command tie
most comfortable
and reliable means
of travel
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAF{ CO- LTD.
Export Department: 62, Oxford St., London, W.l
Head Office • • Wolverhampton, England.
To the unique reputation gained
in competition successes previous
to the war, must be added that
achieved by the renowned
SUNBEAM-COATALEN
AIRCRAFT ENGINES
Sole Agents for New South Wales: FRASER & WILESFORD, 822 George Street, Sydney.
A SEASONED SHAVER.
“Many’s the Razor I have tried, but there’s none
like the Tltiin.’ ” So spoke a seasoned shaver, and
his experience is echoed by thousands of others.
Join the big crowd who swear by
THE. "PLUM ” RAZOR.
PRICE 10/6—POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/G.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
The above makes a handsome present.
‘‘Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/2 Tube, post free.
All the above Post Free. Send for our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over SO pears.
Tried and Trusted
The “PLUM”
Razor.
d d
/
OIL
v~
RF.n»BOIL
A BOTTLE of Rem Oil is not only a convenience but a matter of
real economy to people who take pricrt in keeping their firearms
in good condition. It will be found equally effective for all household
machinery. It is unaffected by climatic conditions and will not gum
or dog the most delicate mechanism.
S. Enquire of your dealer or write for special descriptive circular of Rem Oil, A
KV also Paravaseline—a gun grease—and Remington UMC Rust Remover. Ark
REMINGTON ARMS UMC COMPANY
B-6 D - D - BRYANT, Australian Manager Box 686 G. P. 0., Melbourne
DIAMONDS NEVER RAISED*
We are proud to be able to publish the fact
that we never raised the price of any of our
enormous stock of diamond jewellery during
the war period. AVe object to profiteering.
Then, too, five weeks before the war started
our managing-director was in. Antwerp, and he
bought diamonds in tens of thousands at pre-
war cash prices, and so we could afford to
sell at normal prices. AVe think it wiser
business to increase customers by giving
special values than to make one large profit
and lose them.
We, therefore, are selling diamonds at less
prices than those of London.
Brooch, with Fine Blue White Diamonds, set in
Platinum and Fine Gold, choicely cased,
£6/10/-
Choice Diamonds, set in Platinum, on 15ct. Gold
Bar Brooch, £l2.
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS LTD.,
Plain figures. Cash only.
The Oldest Jewellery House In Sydney.
23 and 25 Hunter Street.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (.except of a hostile character) mil be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
J.M.H.: Wo Lave known many assayers;
but none so guileless as that.... Auster: None of
them any g00d... .E.L.G.: Varied receipts have been
printed in the Abo. pages often. Can’t have it all
over again. Surest way is to consult a vet....
Woree: Won't d 0.... Dave: Try bushwhacking....
J.AAV.: (1) “The Case of the Two-headed Penny—
A Sad Story of Human Gullibility, Treachery, Ambi-
tion and Pathos,” to hand. Sending it to Trotsky.
(2) Possibly, but we haven’t the gentleman’s ad-
dress. .. .Lyrebird: Might be better (N.B. —
Come to think of it, everything might be better.
It is doubtful whether even Heath does its job
thoroughly.) H.G.: Bunch of verse returned....
Daek: “Ole Bert” is fired.... Form Fours: Dis-
missed Jim Tofield: (1) “The ’Flu” is no good.
(2) “Wot’s ther Use” is not Australian.... Paddy
S.: “The Bush Colleen” can flick her skirts and go
—with our best respects, etc Kemo: Don’t like
them Oliver B.: Those are the goods:—
Now, as soon as one storm is over,
No sooner another one begins ;
When we ought to be living in clover,
The World is making record sins.
Oh! May our people never.be guided with such folly,
Our race, our people, the best of race;
To show the World how to be happy and jolly,
That we are with God and His grace.
... .G.R.M.: The yarn is too slight and 1005 e....
R.A.S.: Good enough verse; but that threat of civil
war in Australia just on general principles is a bit too
crude... .R.D.F.: Doesn’t strike u5....M.M. (St.
James) : “Shanklin Down” sings well, but that use
of “there’s” in the last stanza won’t do in an other-
wise grammatical poem.... J.H.: Inventions yarn
doesn’t get to grips with things.... Gib: Don’t carry
enough punch R.J.J.A.: Interest at most for a
smart paragraph... .Nomad: The thing has been
better done a thousand times F.J. (Quirindi):
You have no idea of telling a yarn.... Decern: Some
fancy in it; but the workmanship is p00r....N.W.
(Brisbane): Some of it rhymes and some doesn’t;
most of it is out of scansion; none of it matters....
Nothing Venture: Find out what blank verse is;
and in the other sort avoid trying to rhyme words
like “bush” and “hush.” Mag, Campanhard and
D.P.M.: Not up C.D.C.: Bread verse misses....
N.H.S.: Feeble little flutter... .11. G.: Sonnets have
got to be a lot better than that. The “reverie”
rhyme with “every”-—the latter in a running phrase
—is false to the ear and soul and whiskers... .E.M.
(Castlemaine) : Not for The B. . . .Mick M.: Nothing
there.. , .Rose W.: Verse runs well enough, but
seems insane 11.1. G.: Don’t care for that suicide.
. .Jenks: Not enough meat... .lI.T. (Y.M.C.A.) :It
wanted a touch of genuine feeling to give life to it.
. ...Timo: Yarns not up....H00d N.: Couldn’t find
any consolation in it. .. .William B.: One stanza: —
1 faced the Bun with his bright, blinding rays
Just to see some clouds flit by.
To see some pigeons in their flying craze
•Just to see the same blue sky.
. ...W.E.D.: Verses haven’t much merit... .Walnut:
It’s a sad item, but full of truth: —
The theatre while the play is on
Won’t hurt the actors or actresses.
It’s after, when the play is done
They get themselves into distresses.
Late suppers and the baldy talk :
Night butterflies make audiences;
The Devil tempts the bright young man
As he with some fast Maudie dances.
. ...J.C.11.: “Escape” and “Episode” haven’t enough
in them. Take another pen-name. Another writer
has earmarked the one you give... .C.D.C.: ‘Nep-
tune” doesn’t work... .Emu: But who wants to grow
peaches at Kalgoorlie in the days when there will
be nobody there to sell them to?.. . .Hutch: Half-an-
hour’s reading of MS. like that would drive Hammond
to drink... .J.H.: All right; Mark Antony Davidson
isn’t an opportunist, but a good fellow who only took
to running a shop at Cobar after he had lost an eye
by accident in a local mine. This paper didn’t say
that Davidson was an opportunist; but the yarn is
interesting, so let it g 0.... Prester Pat: Found rest
in the receptacle for blighted hopes. .. . L.A.W.: (1)
Don’t write on both sides of the paper. (2) Can’t
say they offer much promise, but you’re young, and
everything is possible to youth... .R.T.: Not worth
the ink... .L.J.M.: Yes, it’s not bad, but it would
be much better if it were new.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Kelvin: Old gag and ruinous drawing. Study....
G. Webb: Can’t use the two miniature monkeys....
Walter C.: You leave out too much. The lady has
neither feet nor eyes, and the wharf-laborer she is
walking with has no pockets to keep his money in.
. ...E.G.C.: Quite sure the French lady champion
doesn’t look like that... .A.H.M.: Interesting pars.,
but very poor drawing... .H.C.: Artistically it’s
dismal... .Jack M. C.: Yes, but the amateur mustn’t
be too amateurish. You’re about four years off
the possible class... .D.D.T.: Nothing in the batch
for us, but peg away.... J.S.: Your humor is very
young. So is your line T.S.: Early stuff influ-
enced somewhat by L0w.... Jas. W.: Work on and be
patient. (School’s out.)
“lodopiu” has grim news:—
One incident of the influenza epidemic has been
the large number of cases in which the hitheito
unsuspected presence of the micro-organism of tuber-
culosis has been demonstrated. In an alarmingly
large number of cases the patient, after recovering
from the influenzal infection, has still an inexplic-
able up-and-down temperature, sub-normal in the
morning with a three- or four-degree rise at night.
A bacteriological examination of the sputum has
generally shown the bacilli to be present even
when the ordinary clinical manifestations were lack-
ing, with the result that many people who entered
influenza hospitals have learned for the first time
that they were consumptive. Of the millions who
probably become infected by means such as impure
milk during childhood, very many recover or acquire
an immunity by reason of the fact that they pos-
sess anti-bodies or protective bacteria. They can,
nevertheless, infect healthy persons with whom they
come in close contact. Short of a wholesale exam-
ination of the sputum of school children it is hard
to say how such a condition might be treated;
but were the laws relating to cleanliness in regard
to food and more particularly milk tightened up,
and penalties of some deterrent value imposed for
breaches of them, much good might be done in
preventing the spread of the disease.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cubines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information ligarding sailing
dates, and First-. Second- and Third-class
fares.
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Te, .-~City 4246, 2, 4. (! Spring Street,
4<?47 ”
4Sio! Sydney.
Sydney to England
via
the Allied Route,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, SEPTEMBER 10.
VENTURA.
.10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Telephone: City 2282. 44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Hun Lint. Public Companies. Ac.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The lion. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY, I
lit. (Chairman); WILLIAM DAVIES; E. 11.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A.; Hon. Sir ROBERT PIIILP, I
K.C.M.G.; Hon. A. J. TIIYNNE, M.L.C,
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen V ictoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL RANKING BUSINESS
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 691,850 10 0
Reserve Fund 272,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since ISOS specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.; James Love, Esq, ;
W. H. Hart, Esq.; Joseph Hughes, Esq., 1.5.0.
General Manager— -\V. V. ItALSTON.
II BAD OH ICE - - - HIUSHANK.
(tranches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
tli rough out Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
Amerloa, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £160,000
Directors : HERBERT R. LYSAGHT, Esq., Chairman •
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LL.D. ; FRANK N YAR-
WOOD, Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon.
F. JAGO SMITH, M.L.C. ; DUNCAN CARSON,
Esq.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen S'treet). Chief Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. il. Brown.
Manager: G. 11. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedie Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 146 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest oil
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock £629,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750’000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up 1,000.000
Uncalled Capital . . .. . . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,490’224
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
, , , , land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts all other usual Banking
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
business.
MACDONALD,
HAMILTON 8 CO.
Managing Agents for
Australasian’United Steam Navigation C|V
Central Queensland Meat Export Co. Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates Ltd.
Blackheath Collieries Limited.
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Shipping, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
R.M.S. MAKURA.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, October.
R.M.S. MAKURA, November.
The most beautiful Seenery in the World—the Canadian Rockies—is on the All-Red Route,
'l’lie Prairies, the Great Lakes, Chicago, Niagara Falls and New \ ork can all i»e visited.
Through bookings to all Canadian, United States and European points.
Stop-overs on the Railways Arranged.
CALL OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS OF THIS ROUTE.
PASSENGERS CAN CHANGE AT HONOLULU INTO A DIRECT STEAMER FOR
SAN FRANCISCO.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco,via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
Tlie Grent Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
.
ISLAND TOURS.
Now is the Time to Yisit the PACIFIC ISLANDS.
DELIGHTFUL TOURS to
NORFOLK ISLAND and NEW HEBRIDES.
SOLOMON ISLANDS.
PAPUA and RABAUL.
Trips of Four, Five and Seven Weeks’ Duration.
BURNS, PHILP 8 CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
The Hon. Sir Lnarles IC. Maclvellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
F. B. S. Falkiner, Esq., M.H.R.
The Hon. Reginald .T. Black, M.L.C.
Auditors : S. E. Eaidley, Esq. ; A. G. Milson, Esq.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. Janies T. Walker.
General Manager: Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
London Office—29 Tlireadneedle Street, E.C.
340 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Coiiiinoimvaltb.fe:feanf;«Hnstmlia
HEAD OFFICE SYDNEY. W
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking 1 Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain),
also London (2), and A.I.F. Camps in England.
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and SAVINGS BANK AGENCIEB at 2776 Post Offices
throughout Australia, Papua, New Britain, Solomon Islands
and The Pacific.
JAMES KELL,
Deputy Governor
1919
DENISON MILLER,
Governor
THE BEST PLACE FOR YOUR SAVINGS
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales.
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
136 Branches and 501 Agencies.
3f% INTEREST on all balances up to £5OO
DEPOSITS received from 1/- upwards.
Personal, Joint and Trust Accounts Opened.
Shipping.
Osaka ShosenKaisha
(O.S.R. Mercantile Steamship Co. Ltd.).
Direct Monthly Cargo Service Manila,
Hong Kong, Japan and the East. Tran-
shipment cargo accepted for all Eastern
ports, Pacific Coast ports and Europe,
transhipping at Japan.
KOHSO MARU, sailing about 4th Sept.
MADRAS MARU, sailing September.
GANGES MARU, sailing October.
NANKING MARU, End October.
LIMITED ACCOMMODATION AVAILABLE
FOR FIRST-CLASS PASSENGERS.
For particulars apply to
American Trading Company
of Australia,
Managing Agents far Australasia,
40 RINC STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: City 4160, Six Lines.
And at Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide.
Sydney Inter-State
Sub-Committee.
Interstate Passenger
Sailings
(Circumstances remitting).
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, ALBANY AND
FREMANTLE.
Steamer. Sails on
VVANDILLA Sat.,
jSei>t. 0
From
Wharf
N. 4D.11.
Agents.
Adelaide Steamship
Co., Ltd.,
15 O’Connell St.
(Telephone 9520).
FOR BRISBANE. MACKAY, TOWNSVILLE
AND CAIRNS.
Huddart Parker Li^
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND. —Regular sail-
ings between Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand
ports and vice versa; particulars to. be obtained on
application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA.—From Sydney to
Hobart and vice versa every three weeks. Between
Melbourne and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Ceorgre Street, Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
-1 WEED.' RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 11s.; second-class rail and steerage on
steamer, £4 ss.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
Favorite Mail Route to Japan, with connections
at Japan to
EUROPE AND AMERICA.
Tours can be arranged to China, Japan, Korea,
by this Line.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN.
Via Brisbane, Townsville, Thursday
Island, Zamboanga, Manila, Hongkong,
Nagasaki, Kobe and Yokohama.
SPECIAL NOTICE.— All Passengers proceeding to
JAPAN must have their Passports vised by the Con-
sul-General for Japan in accordance with the regula-
tions of the Japanese Government
Full particulars of Sailing Dates, Passage Money,
Freights, etc., apply
BURNS, PIIILP AND COMPANY, LTD.,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Although over £750,000 was paid dur-
ing 1918 in War Claims alone, the
Cash Bonus Distributed for 1918
exceeded.. .. .. .. .. £1,000,000
Yielding Reversionary ' Additions to
Policies of about .. .. .. £1,700,000
Accumulated Funds exceed .. .. £39,000,000
Annual Income over .. .. .. £5,500,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.


A muscments.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director HUGH D. McINTOSH.
"Y IVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT S.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday, at 2.30.
THE OFFICERS’ MESS.
The Latest and Greatest Musical Play.
Plans at Nicholson’s and the Tivoli.
‘I’IVOEI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH D. McINTOSH presents
LONDON’S LATEST LILTING TRIUMPH,
THE LADS OF THE VILLAGE.
Prices as usual.
LI K It M A .1 E S T Y ’ S, S Y I) N R Y.
1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
A SEASON OF GRAND OPERA.
NEXT- WEEK’S PROGRAMME.
To-night (Thursday), RIGOLETTO. Friday, MADAM
BUTTERFLY. Saturday, IL TROVATORE. Monday,
LA BOHEME. Tuesday, FAUST. Wednesday
Matinee, MADAM BUTTERFLY. Wednesday E\e:i-
ing, I.UC'IA DI LAMMERMOOR.
Clt I T K It I O N T II H A T It 10. SI l»NI<i»
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday at 2.
RETURN OF THE
NEW ENGLISH MUSICAL COMEDY CO.
in
GOING UP.
Plan at Paling's. Prices as usual.
D A L A C 10 T H 10 A T It 10. S V l> N 10 Y
* Sole Direction—J. & N. TAIT.
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY), AT 8.
Return of Everybody’s Favorite,
EMELIE POLINI
in the great Dramatic No. elty,
THE EYES OF YOUTH.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
T OW N II A LL, Til N E Y
1 LILLIAN MITCHELL CONCERT
(Soprano).
Assisted bv Leading Artists.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 1919. at 8 p.m.
Plan at Paling’s. Prices: 3/.- Res. ; 2/-, I/-, pl .s tax.
KING’S HALL, Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 8.
RETURN OF
FREDERICK WHITLOW.
SOCIETY ENTERTAINER, from Active Service.
Plan at Paling’s. Assisted by Leading Artists.
yM O N Pit Tt;lt IS TIIIOAI It 10 >
THE PICK OF TIIE WORLD’S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYCEUM
STRAND, GLOBE, LYRIC, EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC, GRAND, KING’S CROSS.
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
|_f IOIC MAJESTY'S THEATRE, M IOI.ISOL It N I'.
■ * Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the Exquisite
Musical Play,
MAYTIME.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
TH *5 A T It 10 It () Y A l„ HICLItOI KNK.
1 Direction J. O. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. AVILLTAMSON LTD. p esent the Famous Play
of Sentiment, Pathos and Humor,
LIGHTNIN’.
Plan at Allan’s.
Prices as usual.
KING’S THEATRE. MIOI,ItOU It X 10
Lessees: BAILEY k GRANT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. & N. TAIT Present the Sparldin
DADDIES.
Prices as usual.
Comedy,
Plan at Allan’s.
U OVT’S THEATRES, AIEEROU lt \ 10
Also SYDNEY'.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
ELSIE FERGUSON in
UNDER THE GREENWOOD TREE.
BILL FARNUM in
THE RIDERS OF THE PURPLE SAGE.
Prices as usual.
|y| Y.IIOSTIC THEATRE. MELIIOIItM
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
“PAY" ME.”
AN ALASKAN STORY WITH
DOROTHY PHILLIPS.
MATINEES DAILY AT 2.30. NIGHTS AT 8.
G 1
.ACIA B I C M, MEL It O UItN E.
ICE-SKATING.
EVERY AFTERNOON AND EVENING.
DI GILIO’S BAND.
g T. K I I, D A ISEACH
Melbourne, Y’ictoria.
TO-LET FOR COMING SEASON.
The most Commodious and Up-to-date
ALFRESCO THEATRE
in AUSTRALASIA.
SEATING ACCOMMODATION about 1800.
£425 per annum. Lease 3 years.
SYDNEY ARNOLD, BEST & CO..
1G Queen Street, Melbourne.
BRITANNIA THEATRIC. MELBOURNE.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
|y| ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions or CHAPLIN, VITA GRAPH, PATIIE,
WORLD and SELZNICIv.
Ben
10/6
Genuine BENGALI. Razors.
Unsurpassed for Cutting Edge.
Made by T. R. Cadman & Sons, Sheffield, Eng.
These razors have a reputation of 170 years’
standing for excellent quality. They are unsur-
passed for durability and keen-cutting edge. Very
best steel, hand-forged, hardened and tempered by
special process. Hollow-ground to highest degree
of perfection. Specially Selected.
Full concave, file tang, gin. blade. For light
beard.
Full concave, file tang, gin. blade.
Price. Post Free 10/G‘ach.
Or Two Razors, Post Free, for 20/-
MANUFACTURERS’ SELLING AGENCY,
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
George hotel,
■St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Aeeoinmoilution in Australia.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JAltltMl »in<l Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Hearns, Sleepers,
Paving Hlocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNIOIIS' HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LOUD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE. MELBOURNE, VIC.
68* PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Rninphrs in nil parts of the wo-’
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
I! live permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding l'iles. Rome
after suffering over 40 years, also a wonderful
Cure for Rheumatism.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/3 per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l/2/-, Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
MALTED
MILK
§
a
o'
Ke?:t time you feel
fagged, try a glass of
Horl i c k' s Malted
Milk. You will feel •
the difference almost
at once. You will
note a speedy accele-
ration of energy.
Hoilick's rapidly en-
dows the system with
vim, vigour and
vitality.
Ask for Horlick's
Sample will be sent
on receipt of 2d. in
stamps to Hutchinson
end Co., Ltd.. 20
Jamieson Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
No Shortage. Ample Supplies.
Missing Friends.
BALLANTYNE Bewlay, Hammond,
Peters. H. It. Ballantyne, of 12 Fresco
Road, London, O.E. 15, England, seeks rela-
tives or news. Information from
11. J. KING, 148 Spencer Street, Melb.
M.S. DEPENDABLE SPORTS GOODS.
Every Kind of Sport and Recreation Catered for.
&
2
? 7 ///
, ,// /'7
* ‘Quality Goods at
Honest Prices.”
EVERYTHING FOR
TENNIS.
RACKETS.
d
Special Champion IG/G
Slazenger’s La Belle 21/-
Slazenger’s Player .... 24/-
Slazenger’s Wliitelior.se . 45 /-
Sla/.enger’s E.G.M 57/G
Slazenger's Stadium .. G 5 /-
Lambert Chambers .... G5/-
Davis Risley Hexagon.. G7/6
(Postage on Packet: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.)
Specialists in
All Kinds of
RACKET REPAIRS
BALLS.
Kin h. Do/.
-/9 8/«
1/4 15/-
1/4 15/-
Orey nporiiliition ...
Challenge Covered .
Dunlop Regulation .
Dunlop’s Champion
A.vre’s 1919 Champion . .
Slazpnser’s 1919 Champion
Eai h.
a/7
a/-
37-
Do*.
30/-
3
3
Of Or
(Postage on
one <loz.: N.S.W., 3/-; other States, 1/8.)
SUNDRIES.
(Kindly add sufficient to cover cost of carriage.)
Tennis Nets, full size, 40/-,
Tennis Court Markers ...
Tennis Tapes
Packet Covers
Tennis Ratchet
Central Wood Press
Gut Solution, for renovatin'
of rackets
Each.
50/-, 60/-, 70/-
3O-
/
2/0, 4/0
7/0
l/9
tlie strings
bottle ./<)
Each.
The “II” Racket Press 2/9
The “Grin” Racket Press 3/6, 4/6
Racket Handle Covers |/-, 1/3, 1/6
Scoring Rooks ]/.
Racket Gut, 36ft. coils,
2/-, 3/6, 4/6, 5/6 coil.
Tracey’s Gut, 21ft. coils,
3/9, 6/9, 9/- coil.
d
BOXING.
Our Gloves are well and faithfully made from selected materials,
and are unsurpassed for durability and effectiveness.
MEN’S' GLOVES. Set of 4.
C. 8.8., real leather, special value 9/-, 10/6
C. 8.8., Fighting, best tail napa, laced palms, 6 or 8 0z....J2/6
C. 8.8., Fighting, superior napa, laced palms, leather lined,
G or 8 oz 14/6, 16/6
SPECIAL FIGHTING, napa, leather lined, padded wrist,
6 or 8 oz 18/6, 20/-, 22/-
i *ERFECTION FIGHTING, napa, leather lined, t> or
8 oz 24/-
lIIG H -GRADE FIGHTING, napa, curled hair, laced
palms, 6 or 8 oz 26/-
THE “LIGHTNING.” made in Australia, officially
adopted and exclusively used by Baker Stadiums, Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane. Personally recommended by
Mr. Reg. L. (“Snowy”) Baker 27/6
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 1/-; other States, 1/8.)
YOUTHS’ GLOVES. Set of 4.
FIGHTING, rapa leather, hair stuffed 7/-
~ Best napa, ~ ~ 7/6
~ Tan Leather, ~ „ 8/6
~ very superior, ~ ~ .... • 10/6
„ Laced, ~ ~ 15/-
(Postage on one set.: N.S.W., 9d. ; other States, 1/2.)
FIGHTER’S SUSPENSORY & BODY BAND,
Tin. wide (Post 4d) 9/6 each.
JOCK STRAPS, best quality (Post 3d.) 6/6 each.
BOXING BOOTS, special English Leather, extra light,
weight about 3Joz. (Post 6jd.) 17/6 pair.
Keep your razor
keen by using—
STROPOLINE, 9d.
TIN
(Post Free).
d
PUNCHING BALLS.
We carry a wide range, including: the famous REACH
Halls. A few minutes each day at Ball Punching will
keep you in good condition.
ARMY, Swinging Bull, regulation size, soft leather, light
make, for fast work, .. .... 9/-, 10/6, 12/6, 16/6
“REACH” ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation size, fine
leather, stayed seams, very fast —
18/6, 22/6, 25/-
“REACH” ARMY, Swinging Bail, regulation size, finest
napa leather, welted and stayed, very fast arid lively—
-30/-, 35/-
“REACH” ARMY, extra light Professional Swinging Ball,
specially designed for fast work, guaranteed durable and
perfect shape; made of highest-qu ility brown mocha kid.
The finest made 45/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, rubber cord for
floor and rope for ceiling 12/6, 15/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, regulation size, special leather,
double-stitched, very lie lit 21/, 25/-, 30/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, best selected hide,
rubber and leather fittings . . 20/-, 22/6, 25/-, 30/-
PORTABLE RALE, strong spiral spring, upright, heavy
iron base, leather cover and bladder, complete.... 60/-
Above balls fitted with best-quality bladders.
(Postage on Army or Expert: N.S.W., 9d. ; other States, 1/2.)
Rail Gloves 3/9, 4/9 pi 1 . Mitts .... 2/9 pr.
Punching Platforms . . . 40/-, 60/-, 90/- each
Ball anti Socket Swivels 1/0, 2/6 ~
Ball-bearing Swivels 3/9, 4/6, 5/- „
SPORTING REPAIRS A SPECIALTY.
Guns, Rifles, Revolvers, Tennis Rackets, Cricket Bats, Skates, Golf
Clubs, Hockey and Lacrosse Sticks, Fishing Rods, Reels, etc., repaired
by expert Workmen. Lowest Charges.
Stud for copies of “Can't B Beat ” Sportsman's Guide ( P»1) and “Sure Catch ” 1939
Angler’s Guide (B2j. All sportsmen should possess them. I'ost free to any address.
ae
ZUSTRTUJtfS GREATEST
SPORTS OUTFITTERS-
AND TOBACCONISTS
3R9
m
City Sports Depot
99 King St, d/so at
Newcastle l Brisbane


A Noted French Dancer Praises
Dr. Sheldon’s Magnetic Liniment.
Mdlle. Andree Flo is a noted
French dancer and producer. One
of her greatest triumphs was
her appearance at the exclusive
Gyninase Theatre. From London,
where she was playing in “Going
Up,” she was engaged for the
Rickards circuit in Australia, and
her exposition of modern dancing
has created a furore.
Mdlle. Flo writes us as follows:
Allow me to compliment you
on the best liniment 1 have
yet met with. A dancer must
be supple—the slightest still-
ness means loss of grace and
poise. Dr. Sheldon’s Mag-
netic Liniment, well massaged
into the limbs after dancing
or any continuous exercise,
not only refreshes but gives
elasticity to the joints and
adds firmness to the flesh. It
is a wonderfully effective lini-
ment, and I heartily recom-
mend it to all athletes, and to
those who suffer with any
stiffness due to a sedentary
occupation. So many so-
called liniments chafe and
burn without doing the
slightest good, but the
pleasant, healthy glow Dr.
Sheldon’s Magnetic Liniment
brings is the sure indication
Mdlle. AS DUKE EL 0 (from a photo).
ol a deep efleot—an ett'eet which subsequently gives tone to the \yhole body.
I am very pleased to be able to send you this little note of appreciation.
1 remain,
Yours sincerely,
(Sgd.) AND BEE ELO.
BANISHES ALL PAIN.
Pain in any form, be it Neuralgia, Rheumatism or Sore Muscles that pain if
you so much as move—all these pains and more are easily controlled by Dr. Sheldon's
Magnetic Liniment. Not an internal remedy, but working through the pores of the
skin. Dr. Sheldon’s Magnetic Liniment penetrates—goes into the seat of pain,
an ” banishment is the result. Apply the Liniment with the palm of the hand —rub
, e ** on creates a warm glow, and the pain leaves you as if charmed away.
Life should not be spoiled by pain and suffering, when Dr. Sheldon’s Magnetic Lini-
ment is ready to relieve all aches anil pains. The ever-ready family remedy.
Price 1/6 and 3/-
r
A
. \ t
* A/
XJi
isae
a
m
m
The musical marvel
of the Century.
Things spoken of as “impossible” cease to be miracles when seen and
beard, but no one can listen to The MEW EDISON without
realising that Mr. Edison has achieved a wonderful, an amazing
result.
The NEW EDISO
is the greatest —the most wonderful —musical instrument of all the
ages. Its naturalness is fascinating, for it does not merely repro-
duce music, but actually Re-creates every overtone and shade of
sound.
It is the ONLY Re-creation instrument in the world. No talking-
machine manufacturer dare make such a claim. Mr. Edison alone
is master of the Art of Re-creation, which he gives to civilisation
in the form of The NEW EDISON.
Write now —immediately—for full details of this unique
instrument, post free.
THOMAS A. EDISON. LTD., 364-372 Kent Street. Sydney.
Storm at Night.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
UP anil down the darkened coast,
Where the winds are fierce and loud,
Sweep the billows, each a ghost
Treading on its fellow’s shroud ;
Scourged and harried, steams a ship,
Fighting south against the weather;
Storm has got us in his grip—
Storm and night abroad together.
Heard in pauses of the wind,
Growls the reef and screams the beacn;
Hissing waters, vast and blind,
Massing shoreward strive to reach
To the clefts, where sea-birds roost,
And the cowering ti-tree’s level;
More than might of man is loosed
On this night of rage and revel.
Slumber, taking wings, has fled,
Tumult through the darkness sweeps;
Restless in their ancient bed
Sway the hidden under-deeps;
Worn and scarred by storm and heat,
Stand the cliffs on iron bases,
F.,am and fury at their feet,
Spray ar.d spindrift on their faces.
Coastal lights their vigils keep,
Searching, staring through the night;
Head and shoulders buried deep,
Rock and reef for breathing fight;
Drenching all the black abyss
Falls the rain, the distance walling—
Ah, but we have craved for this,
Every force within us calling!
One are we with bird and brute,
One with all the flowers that blow ;
Blood-of-heart and sap-of-root
From the one life-fountain How ;
Thus we bloom and thus we fade.
Man and bird and tree together;
Thus the joy of leaf and blade
Fills our hearts in happy weather.
Did we but have ears to hear,
We should hearken sounds of praise,
Rising up from pastures sere,
Ringing out from ruined ways;
I.ow and deep, and full and grand,
By a legion voices chorused,
They are swelling through the land
Over hill and plain and forest.
Flower and blade and leaf rejoice,
Each athrill with keen delight,
While I, too, with grateful voice
Greet the monsoon in the night
As he marches, fierce and fast,
Treading drought and famine under.
Who would miss a scene so vast—
Such a night and such a wo: der!
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Artists of the Golden Hope.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
you’re an idiot! You’d have
® j got five years for it if they’d caught
you at that game in Pronga.”
It was the skipper’s voice, the pas-
senger pricked up his ears. One is always
interested in the escape of a criminal from
the law. He sat very still in his deck-chair,
like an over-fed jellyfish. Isaac Froud
never consciously allowed anything to escape
him, whether it was information or cold cash.
“Listen to me, Cap.,” the mate was reply-
ing to the skipper. “I’ve got an old father
and mother to feed, and beside that, as you
know, I’ve got a wife and five hungry kids in
Sydney. The owners of this rotten ship pay
me enough to keep my bunch out of the poor-
house, and that’s about all. It’s necessary to
run a risk sometimes, and I’m doing it.”
"Y’ou’ll get bitten yet,” commented the
skipper gruffly. “It’s a risky business.”
Apparently Collis was thoughtful, for he
paused before answering.
“Honest, I don't see it,” lie said at last.
“I’ve known this nigger for a year or more
r.ow, and he’d never squeal, because it’s
all clear bunce for him, and if I get caught
he does, too. I gave him 50 pounds for
these pearls. They’re worth a thousand of
anybody’s money. Suppose I get eight
hundred for ’em. I won’t take a penny less,
because they'd fetch just double that in the
open market in Sydney. Will you tell me
any other way I can make seven hundred
and fifty pounds profit without turning a
hair?”
“That’s all right enough,” said the skipper,
“but buying pearls off a diver who has
stolen them is a pree-ty serious offence.”
“Quite so,” snapped Collis. “And there
isn’t a soul on earth who could swear I’v.e
ever even seen the diver. You daren’t tell,
because you couldn’t work your little com-
missions on coal and cargo unless I helped
you. If it comes to that, you’re running a
big risk yourself.”
“Legitimate perquisites of the captain,”
the skipper replied with a laugh.
“Rot!” scoffed the mate. “The owners
would discharge you in one single second
if they knew what I know, and you know
it.”
“Don’t get excited, Collis. It’s a poor
hen that can’t pick for itself, and we’ve all
got to make a—an honest living somehow.
I’m going to turn in. Looks like we’re
going to get a bit of a fog.”
There was a scraping of deck-chairs, and
the two men went aft together. Mr. Isaac
I roud remained very still. Ilis cigar was
bitten to a pulp. He was cogitating. It
is those who possess knowledge who make
money, and knowledge had assuredly come
into his possession while he lay there like
a jellyfish. When at length he did move
from his seat he did it stealthily, aftet
the fashion of a thief in the night—an
elephantine thief, but a cautious onp—lest
either the captain or the mate should notice
he had been in a position to overhear.
The steamer Golden Hope was a comfort-
able enough craft for her trade —to and fro,
every month, between Bowen and Pronga.
Pronga was sufficiently interesting to at-
tract a few tourists. The natives there were
still real natives, and there was a thriving
pearl-fishery in the vicinity. The passenger
rates on the Golden Hope were extortionate,
but if you will go to places like Pronga in
comfort you have to pay for it.
There were a score of people in the saloon.
Some were gabbling globe-trotters, some
hopeful speculators, some mysteries. Among
those who made no mystery of their affairs
was Isaac Frond, lie was a seeker of op-
portunities, a bird of prey, a pursuer of the
fascinating yellow disc which is valued at
twenty shillings. Primarily he was after
a sugar plantation, but he was not averse
to turning a uimble sixpence in anything.
He entered the smoking-room and thought-
fully withdrew from his pocket a card, on
which was engraved, doubtless at great cost:
CURTIS McVEAGII,
Appraiser of Precious Stones.
Jacobs & Morgan,
Diamond and Pearl Dealers,
Duke-street, Sydney.
Then his eyes rested pleasantly upon the
solemn countenance of Mr. McVeagh, with
whom he had had a chat the previous day.
Mr. McVeagh was pompous and solid, and
evidently filled to the brim with sound com-
mon-sense. His intelligent eyes twinkled
through gold-rimmed glasses. As much by
his manner as his appearance he conveyed
an air of self-satisfied prosperity. Isaac
Iroud’s conversation with him had been
chiefly on the subject of bimetallism, and
now Isaac sought subtly to improve the
shining hour by renewing the acquaintance.
The Golden Hope pursued her leisurely
way under azure skies. Within a couple of
days Mr. Frond was on reasonably good
terms with Collis. He informed the officer
casually that he always carried a bit of
cash with him in order to be able to buy
'-heap with ready money. The eyes of the
animated jellyfish were as quick as his brain,
and he noticed that the remark had not
been wasted on the mate. Collis ordered
drinks. Mr. Froud, having laid his ground-
bait, sat back placidly and waited for the
lish to nibble. Nor was he disappointed.
, ns ' (e . an hour the conversation had
drifted round to precious stones.
“It’s a funny game for a sea-going man
to meddle in, ’ the mate observed, "but I
learnt a good deal about it when I was a
,\oungster, and I’ve always dabbled in it a
'it. x ou get a good chance of picking up a
•!rnm\ n • soaictimes when you’re poking
; lound in these waters. I’ve bought line
peai *® n U T> P at one timo and another.”
rr V 7Tii- ~n op . en to do business any time,
11 * . °. 1 1S ’ sai d Froud, lighting a crgar
and incidentally taking stock of the mate’s
expression closely.
“Come down to my cabin,” said Collis.
niisdit ° r U T,° thin there now that
nuglit interest you.
minutes later the passenger was
feasting his eyes on the contents of a small
chamois-leather bag.
V ery nice-very nice,” commented Mr.
"Wi K ; <b xamimn g the pearls one by one.
YV hat d you want for them?”
“A thousand pounds.”
Isaac Frond continued to squint at one
of the pearls as though studying it, but in
leality he was thinking hard.
Must where did you pick these up?” he
asked at last with a wooden face.
f or a second something like a glimmer of
doubt flashed in the mate's eyes, but his
voice was steady when he spoke.
“I bought them off a pearl dealer in
Batavia, lie wanted to raise some money in
a hurry.”
Ye es, said Mr. Froud, slowly. “It
sounds as though they might have had a bit
of a history. I happened to hear in Pronga
that some sort of leakage was suspected.”
lie gazed blandly at the mate. Collis tipped
three fingers of something out of a bottle
into a tumbler and swallowed it. His jaw
was set.
“You’re not obliged to buy them,” he said,
taking the chamois-bag back into his hands.
"There sometimes is a leakage, but this is a
straight deal.” He was tying the string
round the bag, and Mr. Froud felt anxious.
“Just a minute,” he observed. “Do you
mind if I fetch a friend down to look at
these pearls? As a matter of fact, they’re
not exactly in my line, and I’d prefer to have
a word of- advice.”
lio’s your friend?” Collis asked queenly.
“Mr. McVeagh.”
“All right, but you needn’t sing a song
about this all over the ship. There’s men
about these parts who’ll commit murder for a
sight less than a thousand pounds.”
A little later Mr. Froud returned to the
cabin with Curtis McVeagh at his heels. The
expert examined the pearls minutely.
“What d’you Avant for them?” he asked
at last, his bright eyes gleaming through the
gold-rimmed' glasses.
“One thousand.”
“I’ll give you nine hundred,” said Mr.
McVeagh.
“No, no —eight hundred,” expostulated the
animated jellyfish.
“They are worth nine hundred to me,”
said the expert quickly.
"It’s a deal,” observed Collis.
Mr. McVeagh pulled out a card and
handed it to the mate.
"I can give you a cheque now,” he said.
Collis laughed. “That’s no good to me.
I Avant to see real money,” he said.
Froud Avas fumbling in a belt.
“Eight hundred cash, eh?”
“Come on,” replied the mate; and in sixty
seconds the thing was settled.
Once Froud had the c-hamo's bag
safely tucked into an inside pocket he turned
to McVeagh and glared. He had the convic-
tion that he might have been able to settle
the deal for even less than eight hundred but
for the too-ready offer by the expert.
“Ah, well,” said McVeagh. with a slight
shrug of his shoulders, “you have a bargain.
I congratulate you.”
But Isaac Froud Avas not to be placated.
Apart from the fact that McVeagh’s advice
had probably cost him something in the
neighborhood of a hundred pounds, Mr.
Froud had come very near to missing the
(Continued on next page.)


d
mm
Wm
§l%
Wftmm
Mr. DUFF, who derived wonderful
benefits from Zam-Buk.
THOSE ITCHING CHILBLAINS.
Mrs. Annie McQuade, Bridge Street, Valley,
Brisbane, writes: —“During the winter months I
used to suffer very badly from chilblains, par-
ticularly on the hands. The skin, being rough
and dry, would crack into deep fissures, causing
me a great deal of pain and irritation. I found
Zam-Buk most suitable, as it softens and
nourishes the skin, thus preserving it from
roughness and cracking.”
POISONED LIMB SWELLED TO GREAT SIZE.
Another ZAM-BUK Triumph.
ZAM=BUK has to its credit a wonderful record of successes in the cure of all sorts of poisoned,
ulcerous, suppurating and discharging wounds, and the following case of Mr. A. Duff, residing
at “ Rio,” 50 Lord Street, North Sydney, is typical of Zam=Buk’s perfect way. Speaking on
behalf of her husband, Mrs. Duff says: “Twelve months ago my husband injured his right knee, and, getting
about, some foreign matter got into the wound that set up inflammation. His knee started to swell up to enor-
mous proportions, and the pain was dreadful. A doctor was consulted, who advised the use of the knife to bring
away the discharge, but did not result in doing any good. After a while the gathering burst and the discharge
came away in the form of blood and matter. The pain during this time was dreadful and he could not sleep.
“He was induced to give Zam-Buk a trial to bring about a cure, and after two or three applications he got
wonderful ease. No one knows what he suffered till he used Zam-Buk. A daily improvement was noticeable
after two or three days’ treatment. He could get out of bed again and get round and about. I bathed it
daily and then applied the Balm. After two weeks’ treatment it became well and he resumed his work, the wound
K aving healed splendidly.
MUSED, INJURED FOOT ALSO HEALED:
Continuing her remarks in
praise of Zam-Buk, Mrs. Duff
added : “ Being in the plumb-
ing business, my husband recently, also, had the misfortune to let a half-hundredweight of lead fall on his right
foot, crushing and bruising it shockingly. He had to cut the front of the boot out to get it off. It was bad for
a considerable time, but Zam-Buk healed it in about a fortnight.
“My own personal experience is that it is splendid for rheumatism, having used it on my foot for the com-
plaint, from which it has taken all the pain.
“We are never without a pot in the house.
Buk as wonderful.”
We are well-known residents of North Sydney, and regard Zam-
*</fi rr in. SOOTHING—HEALING—ANTISEPTIC. LL ‘JL
Zam-Bub is a unique healing
balm, and records of cures show
that there is nothing to equal it
for piles, eczema, ringworm, bad
legs, poisoned sores, itchy spots,
cracked skin, etc. Judged by
the good it does, there is nothing
cheaper than a pot of Zam-Buk
either at 1/6 or 3/6 per pot; of
all Chemists and Stores.
Guard Against
SUBSTITUTION ,
When yon ask for Zam-Buk
Healing Balm see that you get
it. Do not be put off with some-
thing which is claimed by your
trader as “just as good” because
it returns him more profit. There
is NOTHING “just as good” as
the proved, reliable, ever-ready
and effective Zam-Buk.
d
EVERY HOME NEEDS A p OT
bargain altogether, as eight hundred was
nearly all the ready cash he had wfith him.
He would dearly have liked to express his
feelings openly on the subject, but he re-
frained. He had no conscience, but some-
thing within told him that the less mud
stirred up on the subject the better. Of
course it was not true that there had been
any talk of a leakage at Pronga, but there
was no telling how unpleasant McYeagh
might be able to make things if he took it
into his head. So the animated jellyfish
smirked and made himself as agreeable as
possible all the way to Bowen; and not until
he found himself safely aboard a coastal
boat bound for Sydney did he really feel at
his ease.
Five days later the Golden Hope swung
out of the harbor once more on her way to
Pronga. In her saloon was an entirely new
assortment of gabbling globe-trotters, some
hopeful speculators, and some mysteries. Mr.
Curtis McVeagh was again an honored pas-
senger. He sat alone in a deck-chair, looking
learned, opulent and eminently respectable.
He was courteous to anyone who spoke to
him, arid occasionally he scanned the pas-
sengers through his gold-rimmed glasses.
The captain and Collis were sitting smok-
ing in the skipper’s sanctum.
“McVeagh and I have been having a bit
of a talk,” said the mate, thoughtfully blow-
ing rings of smoke.
The skipper, as though knowing instinc-
tively what was coming, bit hard on his
pipe and scowled.
“Oh, you have, eh?” he snapped.
“Yes,” said the mate, cheerfully. “It’s
this way, Cap. Times are hard and—well,
we both think that after this the profits ought
to be split into three. You’ve been drawing
half from the time you started us at this
game. Mind you, I don’t say there isn’t
good money in it. But, apart from these
deals in imitation pearls, ever since you
bought this steamer you haven’t done so
badly, and you can afford to be more gener-
ous.”
It was the skipper’s turn to become pen-
sive. He knew well enough that McVeagh
and Collis were artists in their way, and
that it would be difficult, if not dangerous,
to replace either of them.
“All right,” he said resignedly, after a
pause, “but it’s damned robbery.”
H. P. HOLT.
The Carving of the Boar.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
[ln the day of the great struggle between Ulster
and Connaught, MacDatho, a peaceful man of
Leinster, had the finest hound and the largest boar
in the world. The hound was sought by Maev,
Queen of Connaught, and Conor, King of Ulster.
By a stratagem, MacDatho’s wife saved her husband
the trouble of deciding between the claims of the
terrible rivals.]
Act I.
A place below the rath of MacDatho.
There are open fields and a stream runs
under a little bridge. Felim comes in carry-
ing a wooden bucket. Murgen comes across
the bridge*. He has a leather strap in his
hand and a hunter's horn on a chain about
his neck.
Felimu How’s the dog, Murgen? Did lie
run well this day?
Murgen : ’Tis the wonder of Leinster and
of Ireland he is, surely, going like the
wind over the low hills, with the kind eye
in him and the shine of grey water on his
smooth hair. Is the boar fed?
Felim : Fed, is it? Have I ever done feed-
ing him, and him like the side of a house for
size? ’Tis surely the dog and the boar
have made a great name for MacDatho.
Murgen : Ay, but a boar is only a boar. He
will make great eating for the high men
when the full time is come. ’Tis the dog
that is the prize of kings; and I have
word that Conor of Ulster and Maev of
Connaught sent men asking for him. ’Tis
for a dog or a woman the kings will be
fighting, not for a boar pig that is one
eating and then only a week's talk above
a small cup of thin drink.
Felim : Och, well, boar or dog, it is great
carrying of buckets I have to feed him fat.
MacDatho is coming this way. What ails
him that he has the black look these three
days? ,
Murgen : We will be going on up to the
house. It is poor talking with a man that
has the high word of you, and him maybe
sickening for something.
They go out. MacDatho comes in. He
throws himself on the ground beside the
stream. 4s he does so, his wife, Caer, comes
through the trees on the other side.
MacDatho : What would a man do with all
the world shaking a spear at his quiet
door?
Caer ( coming to him ) : What ails you,
MacDatho? ’Tis three days, and you eat-
ing nothing; and three nights, and you not
closing an eye. What is it you have on
your mind, heart?
MacDatho : ’Tis nothing at all, surely.
Caer : How would you be putting me off
with that, and me your own wife? Will
you not tell me and let me help you, if
it is the worst that could be itself?
MacDatho: Och, ’tis nothing at all. What
is it they say? Trust a serving man with
money or a woman with a secret.
Caer: Sure, now, I knew there was a secret.
Why would a man have a wife and not
trust her when the black trouble was on
him?
MacDatho: Och, ’tis nothing at all.
Caer: And if it is nothing at all, why will
you not tell me?
MacDatho : There is no way a woman can
help me. It is the men of Ulster and
Connaught; and a sore thought of them
coming here to destroy. ’Tis the world
they would destroy for a small thing if a
man would make them angry.
Caer ; And how would we be making them
angry, living our lone in Leinster and put-
ting the bad word on none of them?
MacDatho: ’Tis the dog they want. Maev
would buy it and Conor would buy it;
and how can a man sell it to one without
angering the other? If I tell Conor to
take it, Maev will come up with a thou-
sand spears and break us in small pieces
under her feet. If I say to ‘ Have
the hound and good luck to you,” what
will Conor do to us all? What can a man
say, and him wanting peace and a quiet
life?
Caer ( laughing) : What would a man say.
Och, but a woman can find something to
say every day of the year. _
MacDatho : ’Tis no time for laughing. If a
woman would say, what would she say?
Caer : Heart, give the hound to both ot
them.
MacDatho: How would that do. 11
Caer: Let them fight for it any way they
will. They will not fight usi; and 0111
peace is worth more than a good dog.
MacDatho: It is a good dog, but maybe 1
We
will make" a gJeat feast for them and kill
the boar for a kindness they will remem-
her. When they have done eating they
will fight for the dog over half the green
world; but they will not fight us who gave
them the best we had.
MacDatho: It is a good plan, surely.
Caer: Och, no, it is only a woman’s word.
MacDatho: ’Tis you have the wise head.
We will make it thnt way.
'
. T r
, ~ 7 „ ,7 n .... ..
In the hull of MacDatho within the rath .
The long table is spread with many hinds of
food; and at the head, upon an enormous
metal dish, is the great boar, roasted whole.
Shields of bronze hang from the rafters;
there are gold vessels on the table, and on the
couches by the walls are piled all kinds of
arms and garments hastily thrown aside.
About the table, but not yet seated, are
scores of warriors in splendid dresses that
V rl,e andaoUars o, gM and
silver. MacDatho and his wife are pouring
mead into the huge cups.
MacDatho: I t is a true man’s welcome to
you -all. Let it be the glad word from
cup to cup and platter to platter while you
are under this roof. What man will you
choose from among you to carve the big
boar?
Bricriu (of the poisoned tongue) : ’Tis a
great work to carve the boar of all the
world. Let it be for the man who can tell
with his own mouth of the greatest deeds
one -
There is a murmur of assent.
Ivet: How would a man speak of his deeds
done? ’Tis I am the mightiest and should
carve the boar.
Cusrid: How would that be? I am a king’s
son. In the name of Conor, my father,
give place to me, Ket of Connaught.
Ivet : ’Tis no great deed to be the son of a
king. It was that same king went
wounded from my own hand when we
fought together at Ardnurchar.
Iveltchab: Give place to me, Connaught
man. While you were giving wounds to
one king it was my hand that killed 10 of
your best.
Ivet: And when you had killed 10 of the
best, if you did kill them, with no man
seeing it done, would you stop to fight
me when I called after you? It is not
to you that Ket will yield his place or
let you put knife in the boar,
Leary the Triumphant: It was well for
y OU that you did not call on me, Ket, that
day. Will you call on me now?
Ivet : It is for deeds done a man is to carve
the boar, not for threatening to make
fighting in a good man’s house. I have
done greater deeds than you; and it is my
right to stand at the head of the table.
Leary : Keep your place then, for you are
good at bragging; but how 7 long would you
keep it if Conall of the Victories were
with us this day?
Voice: Conall of the Victories is here!
&
S ™*P S almost to the ground, bulged
the waist by the arms that he wears
a "f clasped at. the throat with a great cir-
™lar h> ooch °f 9 old -
Hie Men of Ulster: It is you must carve
the hoar, Conall.
IvET •' What deeds have you done more than
_ I that you should take my place?
Conall: Is it Ket that speaks? Surely he
the flower among warriors, the raging
bull of the world in the midst of battle.
Ket: You have it from Conall’s own mouth.
I wounded King Conor in the battle. It
j must carve the boar. Conall yields
place to me for deeds.
Conall (striding up the hall) • I vield place
to no man of Connaught for deeds. Give
me the knife, Ket. It is I must carve the
b oar. Nevep a day since j took up arms
but I have slain a Connaught man; never
a night but i have slept with the head of
a Connaught man under my knee.
t<-„ t . t w :n „. ...
ZtS iPif brothT
bad come here
. . , “ ~ ...
utlllalZ V * hand Under
~ '‘ .
conall : Aniuan is here .
dde throws aside his cloak and reveals the
newly-severed head of Aniuan.
Ket: Up, men of Connaught! Will he live
to take it away?
Conall ( hurling the head of Aniuan at
Ket) : Let it be swords in the open place,
not in a good man’s house.
There is a confused grasping of wrms and
a, rush for the door. The hall is emptied
except for MacDatho and Caer, who stand
silent and trembling as the noise of fighting
increases icithout. Presently Caer speaks.
Caer: It was a good plan, but fearful,
MacDatho: Let us be going away through
the little door at the back and down into
the wood, for there will be great killing
this day.
They go out. The noise of fighting becomes
more distant. The great hound comes to the
open door. He enters with his nose in the
f,? r sniffhig the table. Twice lie turns to the
door and returns; then he leaps to the head
°f the board and begins tearing at the boar.
Tlie n° ise of fight dies away in the distance.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.


-> m
'Oifa
iia M -41 WSilfek'l
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WEBTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD
Queensland Agents—-HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z, Office— 93-107 Feathereton Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
ARE YOU
PTU RE
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbe some spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS ? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding oar Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW: it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafting leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft lubber,
which exerts a GENTLE vet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT . SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
• WE GIVI A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT 'EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women, and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE,
, THE WINSLOW COt,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vie.
GOOD LOOKS
A good clear complexion has much to do with
success in life, especially for women - and for
men too. It appeals and fascinates
more than features. You can
always have “good looks”
if you take Carter’s
Little Liver Pills, for
the real source of a
healthy and spotless
face is an active
Liver. They cure
Biliousness, Con- 1
stipation, Sallow
Skin, Pimples and
d
MtiVW 30Vtti
CARTE)
PITTLE
I IVER
! PILLS
Blackheads. In fact they make you better
looking. Safe for children.
Small Pill—Small Dose— Small Price.
GENUINE must
bear signature &
WRIGLEYS
mra
it**
I
6 bars
of this
delicious,
long-lasting
beneficial
sweet
for 3d.
Most economical
refreshment you
can buy.
Get it at Chemists, Con-
fectioners, Tobacco
Shops and Stores.
Be SURE its
WRUUXS^
i
m
$
0
Sk
M
M
e>.
©
%
91
SEALED TIGHT-KEPT RIGBT
The Flavour Lasts
Made b» Wm. Wrialey Jr. Co. Prop. Ltd-
Rosebery, Sydney, N.S.W.
d
■a
a
r '■ Bs
IWjtMilT
.11.
rlli
f
4
i
J
S 5
SH
/f £*
HI
0
m
w
w.
H
I
i
1
K
SB
ISV-KI
TTItfWS «oV
BY BUYING A TICKET IN THE
EIGHT-HOUR ART UNION
AND SPORTS;
PRIZES value £3,500
Under sanction of the Attorney-General.) Drawn Nov. 1, 1919.
Ist PRIZE, value £750
2nd PRIZE, value £3OO
3rd PRIZE, value £2OO
and 397 other
Valuable Prizes.
CHANCE FOR 1919.
TRY IT.
Vi
Ist Prize in 191 S won by Mrs. Murtough, Ken-
sington. Sydney. for modest outlay-of
GET A TICKET AND HAVE A CHANCE FOR 1919.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper, November 6, 1919. Ti
any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope a list of the results will
be posted. Tickets may be had from Agents Everywhere, or direct from —
es Hall, Sydney. ARTHUR W. YAGER, Secretary Eight-Hour Committee.
Safeguard your health
QtJ.Collis Browne's
CWorodywe
The Original and Only Genuine.
Tin; HKST MUDICINK 1-0 It
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in tlie Cough of IJKONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks EEVEIUSH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
couc
palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
UTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery,
01 all Chemists. I‘rices in liny land, ii, .1 . 5/-.
Made in England.
For A Good Complexion
Why buy expensive cosmetics when there is nothing better
than “Vaseline” Cold Cream? Use it regularly every
night and morning. It cleanses without enlarging the
pores—keeps the skin soft and smooth —allays irritation.
Good for baby, too.
Made of soothing “Vaseline” Jelly—sterilized—can’t
turn rancid. In porcelain jars and tin tubes. For sale at
chemists and general stores.
Other Vaseline Products
“VASELINE” EUCALYPTOL—Ior colds, influenza,
neuralgia.
“VASELINE” CAMPHOR ICE—for chapped hands
and lips.
CHESEBROUGH MANUFACTURING COMPANY
(Consolidated)
New York" London Montreal
d
Vaseline
Trade Mark
Cold Cream


MANGROVITEi
LEATHER
LTI
Satisfies Every Demand
For every power requirement there is a
Mangrovite Belt that will prove efficient. It
is tanned by our special Mangrovite process,
and possesses strength, flexibility and dura-
bility. Prove it on your power plant.
Mangrovite Belting Ltd.
(Charles Ludowici, Managing Director),
49 York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney, N.S.W.
Western Australia: Bibbs, Bright & Co., Perth
S th Australia: John Reid & Sons Ltd., Adelaide
* v ''
■
M 9&
The knowledge and experience gained in nearly three-quarters of a
century steel making, combined with the best Sheffield practice, have
made
“AN EAGLE ON A GLOBE”
WOODWORKING and GUILLOTINE KNIVES
the standard of Quality and Uniformity wherever machine knives are
used.
Warranted Iron and Steel gated with high-quality steel cutting edges.
All sizes in. stock.
Write for prices and particulars. Enquiries addressed to Desk “A”
receive immediate attention.
THE EAGLE & GLOBE STEEL CO. Ltd.
Makers of Ultra Capital High-Speed Steel, 379-381 Kent Street, Sydney.
emicah Do You
=
Choose from our large stocks of the follow-
ing, and save:—
Caustic Soda, Soda Ash, Bicarbonate
of Soda, Chloride of Calcium, Sulphide of
Sodium, Chloride of Ammonium, Naph-
thaline, Carbolic Acid (98 p.c. Pale
Straw), Bichromate Soda and Potash,
French Chalk, Dextrine, Aniline Dyes,
Hematine and Fustic Extracts.
OILS.—A large quantity of Whale, Cod
and Herring.
Write to-day f<?r full particulars and prices.
JAMES HARD IE & CO. LTD.,
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. Wynyard & York Sts., SYDNEY.
’Phone 8456 (6 lines).
581-3 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
30 Currie Street, Adelaide,
REFRIGERATING AND
ICE-MAKING MACHINERY.
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNlNG—which is pertinent to the times
—their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions they can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.” Their stropg
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
We study your requirements and design the layout of your
plant, not only to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service..
All
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR LTD Alliance Building, 97
Pitt Street, Sydney.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth; and Auckland, NX
i
L.A. Rowboat Motors
MAGNETO TYPE.
Horse-power 2; Bore of Cylinder 2 5-8
inches; Stroke of Piston 2 y% inches;
Weight 621 b.
A light, durable motor, made expressly for attach-
ing to fishing-boats, pleasure-boats, oanoes, etc.
Develops a speed from 6 to 8 miles per hour.
Special price, packed and delivered Free
on Boat or Rails, £25.
Correspondence invited.
d
Ironmongers and
Hardware Merchants,
Brunswick Street, Fitzroy,
MELBOURNE.
TUDOR ACCUMULATORS
for All Purposes.
THE PIONEER PLANTE PLATE.
THE TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.
P.O. BOX 2560.
TELEPHONE: CITY 8931.
VKUBiraicisian Office)
Culwulla Chambers,
CASTLEREAGH
-SYDNEY,
PUMPS -Good Pumps Only
ď
We manufacture what is probably the most extensive and
varied line of Pumps listed by any Australian Manufacturer, and
can at the present time deliver all Standard Heavy Hines listed.
We illustrate Heavy Side Bolt or Well Pumps. These are made
with valves as shown, ball valves or special valves to any specifi-
cation; they are supplied in all sizes, and are regularly listed
from lSJin. to Bin. in diameter, by any stroke required. Other Pumus
manufactured include:— P
BORE PUMPS, all sizes and strokes, any specification.
DOWNING’S Patent FOOLPROOF Artesian Deep Well
Cylinders.
BALL Valve ARTESIAN DEEP WELL Cylinders.
PUMP CATALOGUE ON REQUEST.
CONTRACT WORK.—Send Specifications
ALDERDICE LTD., Warrnambool
d
:ompiete electric
Plant, suitable for
Country Houses,
tals, 3c
ignt Power
Suburban and
Stations, Stores
Arts, etc.
j|* ■/.!<» *•»
a
Runs on
Kerosene
Safe.
Reliable
One Gallon of Kerosene
will light 32 Lamps for hours.
N.S.W. & Victoria: WARBURTON, FRANK I LTD.,
Queensland:
309 Kent Street, Sydney; 380 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
E & CO. LTD., Brisbane.
trouble—equip your shed with
d
.
All-British Shearing Machines pot more ginger into the
the satisfaction and profit of shearers and owners alike. When you
instal Lister Shearing Machines you equip your shed with the
en
PS
outfit that the world has to offer. The name Lister stands for mechanical perfection—it is insurance for your money,
a guarantee of continuous year in year out shearing, bigger tallies, bigger profits and no trouble. No matter how
small or large your flock, there is a Lister Shearing Machine built to suit your needs. Write for particulars to any of the
following:—
Agents:
Go. L
an
e
*
SUB-AGENTS. —Winchcombe, Carson, Etd. (Central and South Queens-
land) ; Burns, Philp & Co., TOWNSVIELE (North Queensland);
Mitchell & Co. Pty.j Etd., EGOTSCKAY, VIC.; A. G. Webster &
Sons, HOBART; Malloch Bros., PERTH.
. 237
9-13 Young Street, SYDNEY.
Sf.
■ •
achin
As practical and technically trained
mining engineers are on our staff,
we are able to advise clients to
their best advantage with regard to
any proposed installation, and to
quote them for the supply and
erection of any class of milling plant.
"■ sNHSBfi
oorr patent class/fier.
for All Classes of Ore
and All Sizes of Mines,
If your milling extraction is not
satisfactory, we will report on the
plant and suggest changes—often
quite inexpensive—which will in
many cases improve your output
from 10 to 20 per cent., and
increase the capacity of your plants
Correspondence invited on this, or any
other subject connected with mining or
milling machinery.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.,
ing (EL Eledrical
350 George Street, Sydney.
