

1
The Spirit of Contentment.
■- ——————————————
Machinery Merchants,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant,
107 Kent street,
-FOB
L »
Specialty
Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery,
Sydney,
Mining Requisites,
AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available
m ADVANCE
MONEY
ON EASY:
TERMS
ON ALL CLASSES OF SECURITY
WITHOUT POSSESSION.
N SW MONT dePIETE
fc>"s I C9T LIMITED.
74 Castlereagh St.74.Sydney
CAPITAL &200.000 ‘FKone CiCy 9325
fancfiesj/-- 29 King St.,Newcastle. NSW- 71517 swanstonst.Held.Vk
40 Adelaide Stßrubane.Q. 186 CastlereagK StJS9 George St. West, Sydney.
JTus£ace Ge’xer’&J Sfansves:
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not he laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete D. and I. Co. Ltd.”
ii
CHROMOL
9 9
(Trade Mark)
The Super Driving Belt.
The largest mining and smelt-
ing plants use “Cliromol,” because
of its proven superiority over all
other Belting.
Sole Makers:
J.C.Ludowici§SonLtd.
Pioneer Leather Belting Works,
117 York Street, Sydney
Pioneers and Leaders since 1858.
THE BEST !
8
©
n
n
9
vs
m
a
£ >'
2Sss7*
17
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
L
[33ZE3ZH
for INDIGESTION
anti DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
When you select
Roll Roofing'
your good judgment is endorsed by leading
architects and builders who have specified
and used it for most of the finest buildings
in Australia.
Actual samples and illustrated booklet post free from
The Paraffine Companies inc. (F. M. Prince, Australasian Manager),
Challis House, Sydney.
A new and revised edition of the
“Referee” is now available,
and will be sent post free on
application to
JOHN LYSAGHT (Australia) LIMITED
8 Spring Street, SYDNEY .
S S\ve^ s
the recognised standard
of quality throughout
the Commonwealth.
Horndale
(A mature, high-
grade spirit).
RENOVATE YOUR ROOMS WITH
GYPSBOARD
_ , , . , „„ , r ._ s-iiohhv oaoered rooms are now renovated the Gypsboard way, because it means
Cracked plaster walls a rd room is built right^ over the old walls without any mess or preparation. Large rooms are
permanence. A new Gypsboard room is built rxgm ov part itions—a simple job for any handy man. Gypsboard is the
St e^r°anTc y eirrSSarS The as o U J,’ S , W« per 4 y»,I Write fir Sample ami
Booklet to
NOYES BROS. (Sydney) LTD., 115 Clarence Street, Sydney
-
■B
PLEASANT AND
A TRUE ANTISEPTIC-
O]
TOOTH PASTE.
AUSTRALIA’S BEST.
The Bulletin
Vo]. 40.—N0. 2051.]
[Thursday, June 5, 1919.
PRICE 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, tor Transmission by Post as a Newspaper


240 PAGES. NOW READY. ILLUSTRATED
ARCHBISHOP MANNIX, Champion of Australian Democracy.
THE PUBLIC UTTERANCES OF HIS GRACE DURING THE PAST FIVE YEARS—AND HOW THFV
HAVE BEEN MISREPRESENTED.
By CYRIL BRYAN,
Of Newman College, within the University of Melbourne. Late Australian Artillery,
Australian Imperial Forces.
Foreword by VERY REV. M. J. O’REILLY, C.M., Rector of St. John’s College, University of Sydney
OVER 10.000 COPIES SOLD IN ONE MONTH. v
Popular Edition, 2/1 Posted. ORDER NOW! From All Booksellers.
Wholesale from the Publishers: W. P. LIN EH AN, 309-11 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
am
11 «mi
i|« «
I'k
WaT
fww-
€
r
(|, ‘VI
M'i in
TT is in outdoor work that*-the handi-
ness of Waterman’s Ideal is most
apparent. Ever-ready, ever-right, it is
just perfect for note-taking at any odd
moment and wherever you happen to be.
Waterfrfan’s
(Ideal)*
Fount^lPeii
“Self-Filling-,” “Safety," & “Regu-
lar.” Of Stationers and Jewellers.
L. G. SLOAN. Ltd,
ChclJcti Center
Australia : Harold D. Dixon,
105, Clarence Street, Sydney.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High llol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use th*
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
£
<
%
ki.
This is the
Registered
Trade Mark
Of the best
place to get
your
Fishing Tackle,
Guns, Rifles,
Cartridges,
Tennis Goods, etc.
t^hccc^^^ice
318 Uttfe Collins St., Melbourne.
For Kiddies
If you have trouble in giving
your little ones an opening medicine
when they need it, try them next
time with Pinkettes. This new laxa-
tive is gentle and pleasant and will
be taken readily by all children.
They correct the stomach ailments
of children; are a good laxative in
feverishness and given when there
are signs of a cold coming on, are a
good thing to disperse it.
1/- per bottle at all dealers.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “The Bulletin.’
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co..
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
ffhc Btandard Remedy which has outlived the Centuntß.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
PI:
Hmiiiiii:!*:::::;;;;;-...:::::.
treed since 1596. CURES Write for Boole
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
& GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, F.nglandf
Insist on “Singleton's”—refuse all substitutes.
QUEENSLAND
MOST RESOURCEFUL OF
THE AUSTRALIAN STATES
Visitors to Sydney and residents of hew South Wales
when seeking information about the Great Northern State, whether
from a tourist, land settlement, scientific or investment point of view,
should first enquire at the Sydney Branch of the
Queensland Govt. Intelligence & Tourist Bureau.
Full Information and Descriptive Literature supplied FREE.
ADDRESS: 279 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. SB.
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN/*
HUDSON’S ECin)€otbol JUJUBES
Great
Antiseptic and Proph
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
0. The Bronchial
Tubes of a Dis-
sected Lung.
D. The Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
Ci
c
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Hoarse-
ness, Bronchitis, Influenza, and the Preven-
tion of Consumption.
An Ideal Remedy, containing no Cocaine or
other poisonous drug. Suited f r old and
young.
Medical Press and Circular states: “These
jujubes should be of special service to lecturers, pub-
lic singers and speakers, and, indeed, to all who are
called upon to use their voices frequently for pro-
longed periods.”
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes are sold
only in tins. By all Chemists.
Price 1/6. fl °
The Red Page
FRIENDS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We met, John Milton and I,
Beyond the school wall.
Between an oak-tree high
And a chestnut tall.
An hour he spoke in my ear,
Rolling large words round,
Till the Great Music came near,
With my soul full of sound.
William Shakspeare and I
Held tryst on a day
When a cloud, kept the sky
From stooping to play.
He had much to tell ;
We parted as friend and friend.
For I could listen well
Till the tale’s end.
John Keats had a song
In a far, lonely place,
When the wind crept along
The grey mountain’s face.
It was the song of a land
I knew, but had never seen—
Oh, my heart could understand
Rhyme and rhyme between!
Day upon day have I walked
With these friends of old;
And always they sang and talked
Things too great to hold ;
But now in the quiet place,
Under a vine or a tree,
If 1 lift' up my face
Perchance they will listen to me.
Perchance—but how can I tell?
The leaves lisp in the wind ;
And down in the old well
Are waters thrice refined.
I will draw a bucket of song.
Who knows if they be thirst?
For God dreams long
In the last as the first.
iv.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
The Youthful Dickens
“0.K.”: Probably 20 readers can guess
the name of the author for every one who
can name the 80-year-old book in which
appears this reminiscence of “a mis-shapen,
deformed old man”
I do not know whether all children are imbued
with a quick perception of childish grace and
beauty and a strong- love for it, but I was. I had
no thought that ] remember, either that I pos-
sessed it myself or that I lacked it, but I admired
it with an intensity I cannot describe. A little
knot of playmates—they must have been beautiful,
for I see them - now—were clustered one day round
my mother’s knee in eager admiration of some pic-
ture representing a group of infant angels, which
She held in her hand. Whose the picture was,
whether it was familiar to me or otherwise, or
how all the children came to be there, I forget: I
have some dim thought .it was jny birthday, but
the beginning of my recollection is that we were
all together in a garden, and it was summer
weather —I am certain of that, for one of the little
girls had roses in her sash. There were many
lovely angels in this picture, and I remember the
fancy coming upon me to point out which of them
represented each child there, and that when I had
gone through all my companions, I stopped and
.hesitated, wondering which was most like me. I
remember the children looking at each other, and
my turning red and hot, and their crowding round
to kiss me, saying that they loved me all the same ;
and then, and when the old sorrow came into my
(mother’s mild and tender look, the truth broke
upon me for the first time, and I knew, while
watching my awkward and ungainly sports, how
keenly she had felt for her poor crippled boy.
The writing is early Dickens, of course
(Dickens whilst his style was still some-
what immature, and liis punctuation open
to improvement), and the name of the book
is “Master Humphrey’s Clock,” which went
out of print in 1841. The idea of the author
was to string together a number of novels
on a thread of incidental narrative, intro-
ducing some of his “Pickwick” characters
into the thread. But the public didn’t
want the publication- of the main stories,
in weekly numbers, to be interrupted by
Humphrey’s Clock matter, and after “Old
Curiosity Shop” and “Barnaby Rudge” had
run their course on these lines, the Clock
stopped, never to go again. One of the
oddities of literature is the first edition of
The Old Curiosity Shop” in complete
form lifted from the original publication,
and bearing the title, “Master Humphrey’s
Clock, on the top of every page, the num-
bering of the pages being inconsecutive at
frequent intervals. During the publication
Barnaby Rudge” the interruptions
practically ceased, the “Clock” idea being
an admitted failure. An interesting fea-
*ai’L ° f 4. t lf A short-lived publication is the
rplwf e + t 0 the first volume > where Dickens
mad S amf t \' eport of . his having gone raving
mad, and the vexed question as to which
h ° hat ! been f JUt int o. This
some mel )übt .. ln ones mind as to whether
£LS Tu 6rS tllan Dickons ever went
&s. they were said to go. For in-
Martvrdnn '“T vr Y) ead ’ aut hor of “The
j. laitj ldoni of Man, and Geore-e
“House with the Green ShK,"
Md thevZ™ * ell » d ‘ ins,) - realise stay.
«s wS g Sr W “' th “” Ch*rl« Met
A Sunday Bible
only Lorp w . llole Bible, thank Goodness,
“the W k T? 0f the Bible > and it is
Billy Sm.dav° k f b ’T !r e Great Evangelist,”
portrait* : f Ind,an a (U.S.A.). Two
t , he « reat evangelist as a man
not-oi- % c i? an shave, a wide mouth and a
vvu aym g countenance.
, len Mark Twain wrote Adam’s diary
ne turned a Bible story into pure high-class
comedy. Ihe difference between Mark and
u>m is the difference between the “Mid-
summer Night’s Dream” and a burnt-cork
artist. Bill uses up-to-date slang or worn-
out slang wherever it will fit in and also in
other places. He tells his story in short
barks and long spaces, which make it cover
a great deal of ground. The keynote of his
character is familiarity—-not familiarity
with his subject, for he makes Cain a hunter
instead of an agriculturist, and he regards a
lion as a hibernating animal which curls up
in the snow for a winter’s sleep. But he
possesses that kind of easy manner which
slaps an archangel on the back and calls
him “old cockalorum.” In his preface Mr.
Sunday has this: —
A good many folks say I am too familiar with
God. lam not a hundredth part as familiar as I
would like to be.
Yet if he was only twice as familiar as he
is he would smite the Almighty on the top
of the hat at their first meeting—the kind of
thing a mere man would object to, let alone
a Creator.
A certain sameness pervades the great
evangelist’s style. Abraham’s first appear-
ance is in his office sitting at his roll-top
desk with the ’phone handy. Many years
later in Canaan he is in his office behind
the roll-top desk. Jacob is met with in an
office all cluttered up with telephones.
Joseph transpires in an office and shuts his
roll-top desk with a bang. Samson, dressed
in his “hurrah togs,” puts his feet care-
lessly on the„ roll-top desk in his father’s
office. David was in his office at his desk
(roll-top, no doubt) when Nathan called on
him. Mordecai doesn’t seem to have had a
roll-top desk, but he may have possessed
one. Anyhow, he called up Esther on the
’phone, which was probably alongside a desk.
This is only one aspect of Preacher Sunday’s
commercialism. The book is commercial all
through. At the same time it brightens up
now and then, as on the occasion when Esau
says “Gosh!” which is the most notable
feature in his character. But why the Bible
should be brought home to the people by
remarks like “Gosh !” it is hard to tell. Pro-
bably the trouble lies in the scarcity of the
writer’s vocabulary. (Published by G. B.
Putnam’s Sons, London and New York.
Copy received from Angus and Robertson,
Sydney.)
Bernard Pshaw’s Latest Gospel
Bernard Shaw, when he wrote Peace Con-
ference Hints, perpetrated a fascinating book
in a green cover. It is written in the
author’s usual superior strain, which is one
of his charms. He is quite emotionless
except that lie tries to prove his absolute
lack of bias by being rather anti-Ally. From
his lofty and god-like elevation on a super-
Eiffel Tower all the ants down below look
the same size of ants and their troubles
much the same size of trouble. The fact
that some ants in Serbia and Belgium and
France had an unusually bad time doesn’t
make his mind tip up or get a slope or
kink; in fact, he discusses the war settle-
ment rather as if there had never been any
war. It will be all the same a million
years hence, and to an immortal a million
years don’t matter.
At the same time Shaw’s elevation is
rather dangerous. If he fell off the roof of
his high estate there would be a god with a
broken neck and a great many squashed
ants. Shaw speaks of the premeditated
“spring of the British lion,” and holds that
that rather autumnal animal had been long
bracing his hind legs for the jump. He
goes back to the old yarn that “the Serbs”
(plural) “assassinated the Austrian heii’-
apparent,” though the solitary gunman who
did the deed wasn’t even a Serbian subject;
and he holds that Russian mobilisation was
the cause of the whole annoyance. A speci-
ally bright spot in the interesting book is
where he explains how he personally showed
to the Hun Ambassador at dinner how all
trouble could be averted. But that be-
nighted feeder didn’t see the point, and so
the entire course of history was changed.
(Constable and Co., Ltd., London.)
• © :
The narrative of Bellinghausen’s voyage in
the Antarctic is to be translated and "pub-
lished shortly by the British Admiralty.
Bellinghausen was in command of a Rus-
sian discovery expedition, consisting of two
vessels, the Wostok and the Murni, which
explored a large part of the Antarctic and
sub-Antarctic regions in the years 1819,
1820 and 1821. In IS2O he visited Sydney,
Maoriland and Macquarie Island. The
account of his visits to M.L. and Macquarie
Island was translated for Robert McNab’s
“Muri Huku,” but that is the only portion
of the work which has been translated into
English. There is a complete German
translation, published in 1902.
A Melbourne art critic in reply:—
“Student” (B. 15/5/T9) has assimilated just
enough Meldrumism to prattle the meaning-less jargon
of the cult. He talks of “violating the medium,”
whatever that may be, and promotes to the lofty
importance of a “law” an alleged formula which has
only attained the dignity of a superstition in ihe
circles governed by the “Master.” But he is
delightful when he flourishes his formula in uncon-
scious confirmation of my allusion to Wilson’s “sea-
pieces.” He declares my use of “glittering” to be
“foolish” after informing me that the highly-vene-
rated rule excluding the “glitter of sunlight” has
been violated by the artist. Confusion of thought
could go no further, but really a controversialist
who is capable of misreading “technical competence”
for “technique” possesses too much impudence. I
never used “technique” in regard to Meldrum nor
rated him an “artist” on that account. Moreover.
I never congratulated him for “attempting the
impossible,” whatever the phrase signifies. Those
things, however, are trifling beside the charge of
“judging his [Wilson’s] worst work as his best.”
As “worst ’ carries no authority coming from
“Student,” I need not discuss his taste in super-
latives; I will only remark that what I said was
that two smaller portraits (two out of 150 sub-
jects) were “not so bad,” which phrase, taken with
the context, had nothing to do with the artistic
accomplishment or otherwise, but merely meant their
comparative freedom from the Meldrumatie influence.
As regards Meldrum’s “power to define and depict
truthfully everything that the eye sees,” I simply
say that the prophet who has practically imprisoned
the sun for life and uses a palette like a wet day
in Geelong, is not an exponent of pictorial veracity.
A Satchel of Books
A Handful of Ausseys, by C. Hampton Thorpe, Is a
book which starts at the beginning and finite? a
long way previous to the end. The first chapter is in
the camp, and deals with the embarkation. P The next
H chapters are at sea, and nothing special hapnenl
though the routine is described in an agreeabKrt
of way. From there up to chapter 27 thfffiL ™
m England, and leading a plain but interesting life
(Continued on page 24.)


it
a
YTI2.
1
MU
YTIB.
YTI9
■: , . :
YT9.
YT6O.
YT27.
YT3S.
wßg&iW
*m-mm
'mt*m
%•:
YT3.
These are some of
Anthony Horderns’ Hats
You can safely
make your choice.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ always maintain the high
reputation they have Held for many years as sellers of
Men’s Hats. The consistent support accorded the big
store is proof positive that unequalled value is obtainable in
the Hat Department. It could not be otherwise, for quality
and economy are there so indissolubly blended. Send for a
copy of “Men’s Matters 7 ’ —other styles are there illustrated.
YTI2. Stylish Soft Felt Hat, 2iin. Brim, Cut Edge, 2£in. Band, Bow
at side, in Black, Dark Bnown, Fawn, Smoke, Slate, Steel or Beaver —
7/3, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6, 18/6
YTIB. Fashionable Soft Felt Hat, 21in. Brim, Cut Edge, 2lin. Band,
loose Bow, in Black, Brown, Fawn, Oyster, Slate, Steel, or Grey—
-10/6, 12/6, 14/6, 15/6, 21/-
YTI9. Smart Soft Felt Hat, 2iin. Brim, with Plain Edge, flat set,
2iin. Band, side Bow, in Black, Brown, Smoke, Slate, Steel, Drab and
Fawn 10/6, 12/6, 14/6
YT9. Serviceable Soft Felt Hat, 2iin. Brim, Cut Edge, 2in. Band,
Bow at side, in Black, Brown, Fawn, Steel, Slate or Grey— »
12/6, 15/6, 21/-, 25/-
YT6o.—Warm Golf Cap, in Tweed Check .... 2/6, 5/-, 5/11, 7/6
YT27. English Velour Hat, 2in., 2iin., 2iin. Brim, ill Black, Brown,
Slate or Fawn 14/6, 20/-, 25/-, 29/6
In Black and Oyster 36/6
YTSS. Useful Golf Cap, in Tweed—
2/6, 3/11, 5/-, 6/9, 7/6, 8/6, 9/6, 10/6
In Gabardine 2/6, 5/3
YT4. — Serviceable Soft Felt Hat, 2iin., 2jin. or 2Jin. Brim, fiat set, in
Black, Brown, Slate, Steel, Grey, Beaver or Fawn .. 10/6, 12/6, 15/6
Y r T2l. Good-wearing Soft Felt Hat, 2fin. Brim, Cut Edge, in Dark-
Brown, Light Brown, Slate, Steel or Granite 11/6, 13/-, 19/6
YT3s. — Good-quality Hard Felt Hat. Brim, ljin., 2in. —
7/6, 9/6, 10/6, 12/6
YT3. Modish Soft Felt Hat, 2jin., 2Jin. or 2-iin. Brim, Cut Edge, in
Black, Brown, Slate, Steel, Light Brown, Light Dark Green or Light Grey—
6/9, 7/9, 10/6, 12/6, 14/6, 16/6, 18/6
YT32.—Stylish Hard Felt Hat. Brim, ljin., ljin.—
9/6, 10/6, 11/6, 12/6
YTI7. Neat Soft Felt Hat, 2gin. Brim, Cut Edge, in Black, Dark
Brown, Light Brown, Fawn, Slate and Cuba —
12/6, 14/6, 15/6, 18/6, 21/-
YT7. — Shapely Soft Felt Hat, 2 iin. Brim, Welted Edge, in Black, Light
Brown, Dark Brown, Slate, Steel or Fawn, —
7/9, 10/6, 14/6, 15/6, 25/-
YT39. — Smart and Seasonable Tweed Hat, in assorted patterns—
4/6, 4/9, 5/6, 6/11, 8/6
YTI4. — -Virile Soft Felt Hat, 21 in. Brim, with Welted Edge, flat set, 2il i.
or narrow Band, with side Bow in Black, Brown, Fawn, Green, Slate, Steel,
Slate mixture or Steel mixtyre 12/6, 15/6, 18/6
Carriage Paid to any part of N.S.W. ;
to nearest port in other States,
ANTHONY HORDERNS’,
605 Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
YT2I.
YT4.
YT32.
YTI7.
m
YT7
YT39.
YTI4.
W
YTSS.


Take your KODAK
Ml
m
m
■i
m
y
X
m
m
i
and Keep
out-of-doors
Health reigns in the open and
it is there you will find excellent
studies for vour Kodak.
j
The No. 1a Autographic Kodak Junior is a fine
camera for all general uses makes pictures 2\ x
4-|- inches. Price 67/6. Others from 40/= to
JEIF/2 =
Any Kodak dealer will supply you by mail, and each
instrument is accompanied by a splendid book of
instructions.
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.,
Incorporating Baker and Rouse Prop. Ltd.,
379 George St., Sydney. “The Block,” 284 Collins St., Melbourne.
250-252 Queen St., Brisbane; The Valley; 37 Randle St., Adelaide;
45 Elizabeth St., Hobart; Rutliven St., Toowoomba; Flinders St., Towns-
ville; Denham St., Rockhampton; Optical and Photo Supplies Co.,
Perth; 109-111 Dixon St., Wellington, N.Z. (Wholesale); ‘‘The Kodak
Corner,” corner Lambton Quay and Willis St., Wellington, N.Z. (Retail) ;
3 Lome St., Auckland, N.Z. (Wholesale); 76 Stuart St., Dunedin, N.Z.
(Wholesale); 148 Lichfield St., Christchurch, N.Z. (Wholesale).
McCORMACK writes:—
“I believe that the process by which
‘His Master’s Voice’ records are made is
the most perfect of all methods of voice
reproduction.”
By the “Stars”
Appraised!
Caruso, Melba, McCormack,
Kirkby Lunn (Stars who sing
only for “His Master’s Voice”)
would never testify to the
merits of anything that was
not really EXCELLENT in
music. Read here what they
say about
V. .
■
I
m
■■■■■
m
■
"■ t
B
KIRKBY LTUNTN writes:—
“I look upon your records as vocal
mirrors, so perfect is the reproduction
of the human voice.”
it
Celebrity Records.
CARUSO writes:—
“I am indeed satisfied with my
new records. They are magnifi-
cent, and I congratulate you.”
DAME MELBA writes:—
“I wish you to know that I am
more than delighted with my new
records. They are wonderful. I
congratulate you.”
LOOK FOR THE DOG TRADE-MARK —the symbol of Supremacy.
Complete record list , instrument catalogue and name of nearest
accredited dealer on request.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.,
"GRAMOPHONE’'
Rrgd. Trade-mark.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“His Master's Voice’
Ret/d. Trade-mark.


KI7ZS
CIDER
For Your
Health’s Sake
You cannot help but get
to love Cider, for combined
with ita pleasing, exhil-
arating, drinking qualities
are the highest health
benefits. Health and
pleasure are then the dual
privilege of all partakers
of the luxurious, clear ALWAYS
KITZ CIDER.
GOOD,
AT STORES, HOTELS, CLUBS
AND CAFES,
Baby Bottles, Quarts and Pints.
AGENTS-
SYDNEY: Tucker & Co. Ltd., Caldwell’s
Wines Ltd.
BRISBANE: Burns, Philp ft Co.
TOWNSVILLE: Burns, Philp ft Co.
CAIRNS: Burns, Philp & Co.
GERALDTON: A. 11. Mountain & Co.
ROCKHAMPTON: J. M. Headrick ft Co.
ADELAIDE: W. P. Auld & Sons Ltd.
PERTH: Philp Coyle.
HOBART: Ferguson Co.
T.ATTTJfIESTON: John McKenzie ft Co.
. am.
The
New Sauce
from England
is simply delicious.
You can taste the choice
oriental fruits and spices,
which are so skilfully
blended with pure Malt
Vinegar.
Made in England,
Said here,
0
m
F- YOU
CAN MAKE
<£2o
WEEKLY!
without
experience by
showing
PICTURES
We sell complete Moving Picture Out-
fits, including Biograph Machine, Light,
and Films, FROM £25 UP W A RDS by EASY
INSTALMENTS. No matter what coun-
try you live in, you can have one. SHOW-
MEN, write for our special list and terms.
500,000 FEET OF FILM AT Id. A FOOT.
Send To-Day for Free Catalog
It shows how to start a first class Picture
Show by paying a small depot it, and then
weekly instalments.
WORLD’S BIOGRAPH CO.
110 Bathurst St., Sydney, N.S.W.
emf imk' (!)
wm&
mm
Ar
M
■llk 9)
Your Evenings
The soft, white light of a Laurel-burning
lamp is immensely satisfying both from
the material and artistic point of view. Its
genial glow gives that real home atmo-
sphere wherein we all find pleasure. It
gives just that artistic touch to the
setting of your rooms that adds so much
to the pleasure of your evenings.
Laurel has many qualities which com-
mend it to capable housekeepers. It
burns steadily and clearly to the last
thimbleful, and is soothing to the eyes.
Laurel is odorless and smokeless, and is
most economical. Laurel means lighting,
heating and cooking satisfaction of a
very high order.
When ordering don’t say Kerosene—ask
for Laurel.
*O,
Co/
*0
“The soft white light ”
Vacuum Oil Company
Proprietary Limited
THE QUEEN’S ARMS
truly is a “home,
from home” for the
commercial traveller.
In the heart of the
city ; excellent cuisine;
luxurious accommoda-
tion ; modern equip-
ment. By the day, 10/6
QUEEN’S ARMS
HOTEL
Or. Flinders Lane and
Swanston St., Melbourne
Claude R. Kerr, Prop’tor.
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, BellS Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office-
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
FACING ext-eme drought and torrential rains, the motorist in
Sydney learns to depend more and more on Spencer-Moulton
Three-Ribbed Tyres. The Spencer-Moulton toughness, grip, and
resiliency give an unprecedented degree of comfort, speed, and
safety over the ever-changing road - surfaces of the country.
Ask any motorist who has tried Spencer-Moultons
«n *a difficult climate or country-that s oil.
PENGER
OULTON
SPENCER - MOULTON ALL - BRITISh
SOLID RUBBER TYRES ARE WINNING
THE SAME UNIVERSAL APPROVAL,
GEORGE SPENCER, MOULTON & CO., LIMITED,
Head Offices i 77-79, Cannon Street, London, L.U..
Works : Kingston Mills, Bradford-on-Avon, Wilts.
STOCKISTS : Cape Town, J 'hannesbutg, Melbourne, Sydney, Christchurch,
Wellington, Cairo, Colombo, Madras, Singapore,Klang, Kuala-Lumpur, Medan ,
Saigon. -
F.C.8.—T64
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Head Seas.
There are head seas clamoring,
With tossing crests of white.
She’s heeling to their hammering
And roaring through the night,
Swaying up the slopes of green,
Crashing in the hollows,
Snatching power, the seas between,
To meet the blow that follows;
And when the wake is churning bright,
You’ll hear the look-out tell: _
“Four bells! The lights are burning bright!
“A-a-all’s well !”
When sunset lights are reddening
The sea’s far-swimming flood,
Massed clouds of black were deadening
The beating of men’s blood.
A ghostly twilight followed them,
And where the sea-line far
Was like a garment’s ragged hem,
There gleamed a lonely star.
When night’s wings closed over us,
With crests like oanners flown.
Came seas that leaped to cover us
In deeps where monsters moan.
Man. the proud, the peerless one
Of all God’s teeming world —
Onlv man, the fearless one
Has dared the seas, and hurled
His sturdy ships of wood and steel
Against the tempest’s power,
Bending waves beneath his keel,
Obedient for the hour !
Out of blackness thundering,
See them come, and. lo !
Into darkness blundering,
Impotent, they go!
While nerve and muscles stand to her,
And hold her to the fight,
And the hot steam is fanned to her
That drives her through the night,
It may be God will see her pass,
From His high places bending,
A shadow in a darkened glass
And locked in night unending.
But there’s no pause or faltering
In spinning crank or blade.
And no man would be altering
The course that has been laid.
There are* head seas clamoring,
They strive with all their nr.ght;
She staggers at their hammering
And plunges through the night,
Swaying upwards to the crests,
Smashing in the hollow's,
Plucking white foam to her breasts
To break the blow that follows.
And when the wake is churning bright
A lonely voice will swell:
“Eight bells! (a green sea) burning
bright!
A-a-alVs. .well. ... /”
MAOKILAND.
WILL LAWSON.
At the End.
Should she pluck the flowers
That grow beside the way,
And make for you a posy
And sing a laughing lay,
You would look in her eyes
And call her Lady Rose;
But where would you be
At the long day’s close?
Should you give her wine,
Ruby rich and rare,
And a green silk gown
And jewels for her hair,
Then she would be merry,
Then you would be gay;
But how would you be
At the ending of the day?
Should you give her love
And service, strong and true.
Should she cross her own will
For that which pleases you,
Why, surely then, though stony
And rough the path you wend,
Joy will be your dower
At the long day’s end!
N.s.w.
MARJORIE QUINN.
The Lotus Night.
It is the lotus night. The silver moon
That, like the face of Buddha’s begging bowl.
Shines invitation to the fruits of earth
To feed his body in this last re-birth,
And thus make shelter for the homeless soul
(Lest for Nirvana’s shore it sail too soon),
Brings an October wooing to the flowers
And makes a festival of midnight hours.
From the black mud that lines the stirless
pool - ...
The lotus wakes to bloom in blue and white
With all the startled grace of women’s eyes,
Starry and soft, from ardent love’s surprise,
Love stealing on them in the scented night
Through tasselled mango trees, secluded, cool,
That keep for Buddha’s bowl the spicy boon
And only yield their perfumes to the moon.
The flat roof of the palace meets the skies;
There is a twitter from the bamboo grove ;
Perhaps some foolish bird has moved the
wing
That hides its head, so yearns, with light, to
sing,
Yet fears to break the silences of love
That steep you from your bosom to your eyes
Till fevered longings must rnv breast assail
To find that rose-red mouth beneath the veil!
Creep here against my heart. This is your
goal.' -5
The smooth jade bracelets on your ankles
click.
And, down where branches in the moonrays
slant.
The yellow robes of some pale mendicant
Enjoin to abstinence —for. those love-sick!
Who ask red lotus for their begging bowl,
And laugh to brim with sweetness all the cup
Rich in a food on which a god might sup !
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


A Wise Decision to fit
PERDRIAU TYRES
to Your Ford Car.
They offer distinct advantages in guarantee, in quality and in price.
We guarantee 4000 miles to Ford Owners with Perdriau 30 x
Tyres, though their actual mileage goes far beyond this.
Perdriau Super Tread Tyres, 30 x 30£ Cover, £6/16/6.
High-grade Laminated Red Tube—Heavy, 24/-; Light, 19/6.
Obtainable from all Oarages or from the Manufacturers—
Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd.
George Street, Sydney. Flinders Street, Melbourne
Adelaide Street, Brisbane, Gawler Place, Adelaide. Murray Street, Perth.
F.LIES
. ChRIW ' : ; i -
to‘tThe sickroom
r ROM.THE
STABLES
, and ' • •,
DRAINS V.
••;r:;v'■?
RMDTHE KITCHEN.’ .
%
m
m
[n mi
KV/fcILACC- -CRftBBC/,
/• / - '
S'Sr--—-
r
v
<( %
\
Vi.
-X II
sf ' ll
EM
-/V/fOT
Alm/m
HI Lit
:
■■
□
i
VEftiH
Take a Survey
of pour Housekeeping Problems
Maintaining variety in the menu is one. Saving cooking
another. Providing for emergency occasions is yet
another. And to all of them—the logical solution is—
REX’ CAMP PIE
It comes all ready to serve, even to a tasty jelly. It provides a
wholesome, appetising meat course for all occasions.
ALWAYS KEEP A TIN IN THE HOUSE.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
TO GROCERj.—Your cus‘omers are reading these an-
nouncements they use “Rex” goods—they see
Rex * goods at their friends* homes.
DO YOU SUPPLY THEM?
FOGG ITT, JONES & CO., LTD.,
Packers of “ Rex ’’ Pure Food Produtfs. Curers of “ Rex ” Hams and Bacon
J 844
Dodge Brothers
MOTOR CAR
[ N securing their requirements for their
* vast Expeditionary Army the United
States War Office, by a process of
elimination, confined their selection to
standardised articles of various descrip-
tions, according to the class required.
Particularly in motor vehicles was this
standardisation apparent, and more than
usual thoroughness was displayed in
eliminating makes that did not come up
to requirements.
Eventually three types, were decided upon, viz. : A
heavily-built car, a medium-weight car for general pur-
poses, and a light-weight car.
The Dodge, which represents the medium-weight car,
was the only make of its class approved and adopted by
the War Department.
They were furnished, not in hundreds, but in thousands -
both for the home-training camps and for service in
Belgium, France and Italy.
No greater compliment than this has ever been paid to a
motor-car.
The Dodge Brothers Car received the official stamp of
approval in preference to all other cars of its class, when
the life of its nation was at stake.
The Standardised Car.
Dalg'ety & Company Limited,
130 PHillip Street, Sydney.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office., Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
VOL. 40.-No. 2031.
THURSDAY. JUNE 5, 1919.
Price 6d.
THE ANTI-ARBITRATION STRIKE.
THE MISSUS: “What about the kids, man?"
THE STRIKE BOSS: “The kids! THEY ain’t employers. Take ’em away—I’m busy.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Maoleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 Gs. Gd. per annum you can have The Bulletin
sent regularly to you every week for a year, to any
ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
ref used.
The contents of this paper arc copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence ” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those, dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 ivords, are specially acceptable) , Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dauson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., UR Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
0.3. A. —N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs Netvs Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home News Agency, 76'J Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Iloung, Cairo, Egypt.
llonq Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Ilong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. I’. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : 'Throughout the Commonwealth , Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherviise; Boz., lid.; B%oz. to 10oz., 3d.;
lOoz. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, ioz., lid., and id. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, JUNE 5, 1919.
A CRY FROM THE DOCK.
The New York World’s Paris correspondent
states that the German delegates are preparing
several new notes for presentation to the Peace Con-
ference, one of which will charge the Allies with
criminal responsibility for starting the war, and ask
for the arraignment of Allied wrong-doers. In this
connection they will also demand an investigation
of the Government archives of all the belligerents,
in order to fix the responsibility for the war.
The above typical piece of Boche bluster
merely signifies that the Germans are going
to put up a plea of “not guilty,” in the hope
of a rider to the effect that there were ex-
tenuating circumstances; and it is in har-
mony with recent pronouncements of Count
Reventlow. To the Deutsche Tages-
zeitung he said: “Germany must affirm
and establish her innocence loudly and stub-
bornly before the world, else all is lost.” It
is a tremendous job, this, which the one-
time blatant advocate of frightfulness has
set his countrymen. Was England to blame
—England with an army which provoked
the derision of every Junker who visited
Aldershot, with a pacifist Government,
and with a difficult Irish problem on its
hands? Or France, with an Army scandal
in full blast, with an equinment shortage,
and with labor troubles in its industrial
areas? Yet the Hun must have some sort
of defence, some line of reasoning to suggest
that the blame wasn't all his; or, if it was,
that he had his hand forced —was a reluct-
ant criminal, so to speak. We ought to
know his arguments as well as we do our
own; but because of the idiotic official policy
of obscurantism, still in vogue here though
the fighting has long since stopped, we do
not. The only line Australia is allowed to
get as to the movement of opinion in Ger-
many is from translations of extracts from
Hun newspapers. They are worthless as
evidence, and so till the veil is lifted the
Commonwealth can only conjecture.
* * * *
One of t'he blackest items which the Boche
delegates will be called on to explain awai-
ts the German attitude from the 23rd to the
30th July, 1914. Between those dates the
British Government struggled furiously for
peace. Servia, under British and Russian
influence, had swallowed the whole of Aus-
tria’s ultimatum, barring two trifling
points. Austria was satisfied that an agree-
ment could be reached on them, and
announced its readiness on July 30 to accept
Servia’s terms. Next day Germany declared
war on Russia- and Armageddon began.
Such haste, in view of the known mobilisa-
tion difficulties of Russia and France, can
only mean that Germany was determined
on war — then. It is likely that the crime
was planned much earlier. It is on record,
for instance, that Baron Wangeniieim,
German Ambassador to Turkey, told the
Marquis Garroni, then Italian Ambassador
at Constantinople, that the Kaiser had held
a conference in Berlin “very early” in July
and decided on an ultimatum to Servia —
one which Servia “could not accept and
which would achieve war within 48 hours.”
So Germany will probably not try to justify
its conduct immediately before the great
.calamity, any more than it does the villain-
ies which followed. They were the inevita-
bilities, according to the German argument,
of a situation created by others. The basis
of the defence will go back to Agadir, and
earlier; to a world in passive resistance
against a great nation struggling for its
rights—to the property of others. The
delegates will point, presumably, to Brit-
ain’s absorption of the S. African Re-
publics and to its 30-year old grip on
Egypt, to France’s occupation of Morocco,
and to Italy’s position in Tripoli, and
cite them as precedents for what their
country attempted to do. But none of these
cases is remotely analagous to Germany’s
bloody and burglarious assault on France
and Belgium. It is like comparing a police-
man’s job with that of a robber.
* * * #
Many reasons which in German eyes jus-
tified the war will never be tabled, since the
Hun now appreciates that no one else will
see the position as he does. One of the
innumerable side-origins of it was, no doubt,
the enormously profitable trade agreement into
which the Germans blackmailed the uus-
sians during the Manchurian campaign. The
Germans knew that Russia didn’t mean to
renew —had, in fact, borrowed a gigantic
sum from France in order to resist the
anticipated pressure. Germany struck when
it did because, amongst other things, it had
no intention of waiting till the vast Eastern
nation was equipped to fight on level terms.
And yet there is no doubt the Hun would
have preferred to wait. He was not quite
ready for his tremendous gamble for world-
domination. It is likely that Berlin’s
pacifism was quite honest in the very early
stages following on the assassination at
Serajevo. Two things pushed the Boche
to his doom —the eagerness for blood of the
Austrian war party up to the middle of
July and the Pan-Germanist’s fear of old
Francis Joseph’s death and the break-up
of Austria-Hungary. And so he decided to
fight—all in. It is, no doubt, in the con-
ditions precedent—in secret or censored
diplomacy, and all the national misunder-
standings arising from it—that the best of
his excuses will lie.
* * * *
This appeal will be a strong one in the
light of the world’s present knowledge. The
second Balkan War would never have occur-
red had the British people been allowed to
know what was going on. Bulgaria, which
England, under Gladstone, had freed from
the Turkish yoke, was guaranteed by the
Treatv of London from Turkish invasion.
The Treaty was hardly signed before trouble
began again. The diplomats in London
warned Turkey not to cross the Enos-Midia
line—the Bulgarian frontier. The Turks
crossed, and London did nothing. It was
a betrayal which the British people would
have bitterly resented had they been in-
formed clearly of the situation—as clearly,
say, as they were four years later to be in-
formed of the shell-shortage situation. The
effect was twofold: it embittered the Bul-
gars, traditional friends of Britain; and it
convinced the Turks (and the Germans, who
were behind them) that England was afraid
of a fight. It may seem a cynical justifica-
tion, this, that one nation is licensed to slay
and plunder because another shows what
may be taken for weakness. But it is a
law of the wild which the world has followed,
more or less, up to now. Germany’s rulers
may further arguably claim that neither they
nor the present generation of Germans are
solely to blame for the horror which is now
passing away. Bismarck conceived the
ideal of Pan-Germanism half a century ago;
thousands of speakers and writers have
preached it since his day; and inevitably
there came times when empire-drunk Ger-
mans got out of hand. One of such times
was after the Archduke’s murder. Is there
no obligation on the neighbors to discourage
lunatics? Were the apostles of Pan-Ger-
manism, notably the Kaiser and his relations,
ever spoken to by British and French diplo-
mats, as man to man —warned in plain terms
of the eventual results of their antics? Was
the game of diplomacy played altogether ;n
the interests of the peoples, or was it ex-
ploited by dynasties and individuals? Could
the Germans, more than any other people,
control their foreign policies? And. war
being organised by their rulers, could they
do other than fmht i Such will he among
the pleas in bar of the Boche delegates. The
thing is certain, since, unless Germany’s
defence takes the form of an indictment of
the system of secret diplomacy, it has none
that the world will listen to. But on this
point many thinking people will hearken
with something UKe eagerness. How many
wars have been made in the past, not by
the people, but by a handful of old men —
often very stupid old men? How many
would have been averted if the people hud
had a say? And how many more if they
had had an understanding say ? The world,
as an outcome of the nroceedings of the nast
five years, has conceived a deep suspicion of
press, diplomatic, and every other form of
obscurantism. It is eager to see the prin-
ciple of adequate ventilation applied to all
nublic matters —even the most nationally
important. So eager that it is prepared to
believe that many Huns may have sinned
because they knew not what they did.
WHARF-LUMPERS AND OTHER
AUSTRALIAN KINGS.
A few weeks ago a wharf-lumping clan at
Fremantle laid down the law that the men
who tried by utterly illegal means, and partly
in the pro-German interest, .to starve out the
nation in 1917 must have the sole right to
do their class of work, and that the men who
saved the nation from being starved must
be disqualified and victimised and held
accursed. As the Government lacked the
courage to light the point the old strikers
won easily. As a natural result the law-
breakers and treason-mongers of 191 i took
up the same attitude in Melbourne and
stopped work on the wharves by violence,
and bashed the other unionists who ques-
tioned their union’s monopoly. It isn’t a
question of unionists versus non-unionists
but of the unionists who bushranged the
nation demanding the victimisation of those
who didn’t. As no Government interferes
with the propaganda of the aggressors, or
prevents the dissemination of their literature,
or even prevents them levying contributions
by threats of boycott and violence on shop-
keepers and others, as was done in Westralia,
they will probably win all along the line--
that is to say, they will win unless there is
a different sort of Government. There being
practically no penalty attached to this kind
of hold-up, the result is only a matter of
time, for in war the crowd which stands
wholly on the defensive, and a very hesitat-
ing defensive at that, comes off second-best.
* * * *
The situation is a whole sermon on the
futility of this borrowing, importing, easy-
going land where a crowd which does the in-
ferior, animal-like work of shoving bales and
bags of raw produce on to an ark and haul-
ing boxes of finished goods off an ark is
ihe king-pin of our civilisation, the hub
of the local universe, the power which makes
things and unmakes them, the dictator when
it is sufficiently unanimous to use its power,
also the Kaiser and the tin god. It is the
curse or superstition of foreign commerce
that has brought this about and lias made
this ’bus-missing community the slave of any
party which can intercept the unprofitable
job of paying foreign Private Enterprise to
carry our property all over the seas. The
position can be judged by comparing the
value of manufactures (which make us in-
dependent of the wharf-lumper) with out-
side trade (which makes the wharf-lumper
our master in common with the shipowner,
the importer and the foreign producer, who
are also our masters). Compare Australia
with the United States, the latest published
figures being used in each case:—
UNitED States (1915).
Value of —
Manufactures (gross output) .. ..£5,300,000,000
Manufactures (value added to raw
material used) .. . . .. 2,030,000,000
Foreign Commerce .. .. .. 888,551,000
Australia (1917).
Manufactures (gross output) . . . . 206,386,000
Manufactures (value added to raw
material used) . . .. .. 74,103,000
Foreign Commerce . . .. .. 174,184,000
The position is even better for the United
States than it appears, for a fairly large
proportion of its commerce goes by land to
Canada and Mexico and can’t be held up
by wharf-lumpers. But giving the States
all the drawbacks of the doubt the position
is this. If the men who follow the very
crude and unproductive and unimproving
job of carrying heavy things about on the
shore hold up Uncle Sam unanimously.
Uncle can reply: “Even if everything you
handled was manufactured goods, which it
isn’t by a long way, you would only repre-
sent 3s. 4d. in the £ as compared with local
output, and I can do without you. Take
a rest.” On the other hand when there is
a similar bailing up in Australia the striker
can say that he represents 16s. lid. in the £
as compared with local manufactures and he
can’t be done without. He almost holds the
keys of life and death. Uncle Sam is held
up at times, like other people, by industrial
troubles, but it is by men who do better
things than humping heavy packages, and
he is never put to the degradation of being
brought to his knees by the threat that his
supply of foreign cheap labor or nigger labor
or “scab” labor goods will be cut off. And
that, when one comes to think of it, is some-
thing of a difference in favor of the liigh-
tariff country which refuses to be Europe’s
beast of burden.
WAGE AWARDS AND THE TARIFF.
The position of oregon and hardwood :
The Australian system of Wage Courts and awards
is more than ever in danger of defeating itself
unless the employer who has to pay the award is
protected against the cheap labor and cheap products
of other countries. In the timber trade, for in-
stance, oregon is the highly successful rival of Aus-
tralian hardwoods, which are superior in durability.
Oregon is certainly more easily worked, but its
increasing importation is mainly due to the fact
of the dearer production of hardwoods. The Ameri-
can timber was able to hold its connection during
the war, and with normal freights and shipments
restored it becomes a stronger competitor. The
new award for N. S. Wales timber-getters and
mill-bands provides for the payment of a weekly
wage, even though weather and transport conditions
break the men’s time. Although it is just that waiting
labor, which must eat while it is waiting, should be
paid that it may eat, yet it is grossly unfair that
fair-wage awards should operate in favor of the im-
porter and against the Australian timberman. Car-
ried to its logical conclusion it means that there
will be a wage award and no work. Increases in
hardwood prices to 265. have been used by Oregon
importers against the Australian miller; but when
hardwood 30 years ago was 6s. 6d. per 100 ft. in Syd-
ney, the sailors who carried it got £1 a month and
lived like dogs.
The following figures as to (1) importations of
Oregon and redwood and (2) the operations of
the three best of the same firm’s country mills are
provided by A. and E. Ellis, Ltd., of Sydney. A
shipment of 600,000 ft. Oregon ex Echo cost 375.
Bd. per 100 ft. super; another, ex Inca, of
112,668 ft., cast 345. 9d. per 100 ft. super; and
a third of redwood, ex Annie Campbell, cost
48s. 6d. per 100 ft. super. The Sydney price
for oregon is 425. per 100 super, less 24 per cent.
Melbourne price is 50s. per 100 super, although the
added freight is only Is. per 100 super. The Sydney
price of redwood is 555. and the Melbourne price
755.; and that shows definitely the profiteering of
the importer, Melbourne price being 20s. over
Sydney price, though the difference in freight is
only Is. A few big timber merchants in Australia
are getters and millers of Australian hardwoods;
the others are importers and have no mills and care
nothing for the local .industry. With the new award
increasing the cost ; of -hardwood the importers can-
get Oregon low enough to beat hardwood out of the
market; once Australian mills are stopp’ed, the im-
porters can sky Oregon to any price they like. It
suits their profits, having no Australian mills of
their own, to see hardwood so dear that Oregon
would be cheaper, for all its transport costs.
With normal conditions of shipment the items of
loss on exchange and loss of exchange on freight
and of War-risk insurance disappear. These repre-
sent £235 on the two Oregon shipments above
mentioned and £33 on the redwood; which saving
again operates against the miller of Australian hard-
woods. For the four years under the old wage con-
ditions the profits of three of A. and E. Ellis’s
coastal river mills, which arc the best mills of all
their string, with a total of £48,350 invested, were
respectively, for 1915-18 inclusive, 6.12 p.c. 14.5
p.c. and 2.23 p.c. p.a., or an average of 7.62 p.c.
p.a. Meantime the net profits of the same firm’s
whole business, i.e., with the importing side in-
cluded, were for the same period 9.16 p.c. p.a.,
showing that an Australian industry had importing
as its most profitable department. As a sample of
the influence of weather conditions, one of the firm’s
lumber steamers was bar bound for 13 weeks at.a
cost of £25 a day.
For such an uncertain and broken-time business
as timber-getting and milling on coastal rivers a
return of 7.62 per cent, as the average of the three
mills is too modest to suggest other Australian
development in any line where three or four times
the profit can be shown by the imported substitute.
On one of the shipments of Oregon, for instance, the
gross profit is 7s. 3d. per 100 feet, or £4OB. On
another the gross profit is 4s. 4d. per 100 feet,
or £l3OO. On the redwood shipment the profit is
6s. 6d. per 100 super, or £325. Take the same
shipment at Melbourne basis and it becomes a
profit of £1275.
The importer is no good to Australia. He doesn’t
want capital for a factory; he wants an office and
an indentor’s code ; and most of the wages he helps
to pay are paid oversea. Without a just tariff,
the best of capital—manufacturing capital—will be
driven out of Australian manufactures into the
mere handling of the foreigners’ goods. And with
the right tariff from the Commonwealth should
come saner forestry regulations from the State. A
sawmill in N. S. Wales has to buy its tree blind ;
and when it gets to the bench even the piped tree
must be paid for as wood though it be all wind.
Royalties should be high to pay the cost of effici-
ent reafforestation, but should he payable only on
the actual marketable timber a tree contains. If
would mean close supervision to prevent collusion
between ranger and benchman, but it can be done.
The movements of prices of Oregon and Aus-
tralian timber are here contrasted from 1914 to
1917:
Rase Price Per 100 Feet Super.
Australian
Oregon. Redwood. Hardwood.
Aug., 1914 .. 18/6 28/6 21/-
Apl., 1915 .. 19/- 30/- 19/-
July, 1915 .. 21/- 32/- 20/-
Dec., 1915 .. 22/C 33/- 21/-
Julv, 1916 . . 25/- 35/- 22/-
Apl., 1917 .. 23/- 38/- 22/-
July, 1917 .. 30/- 40/- 23/-
Sept., 1917 .. 35/- 45/- 25/-
Nov., 1917 . . 38/- 50/- 26/-
M ch, 1918 . .
May, 1919 .. 38/- 55/-
Redwood and Oregon prices are less 2< p.c. and
cost of delivery (about Is. 3d. per 100 super) ;
hardwood prices less 21 p.c. and cost of delivery
(about 2s. 6d. per 100 super). Oregon is 100 p.c.
dearer than it was in August, 1914 ; redwood nearly
100 p.c. ; Australian hardwood less than 25 p.c. Let
the imported woods come down to pre-war prices
and many Australian mills must close down. The
operation of Australian mills is by comparison so
poor a business that with wage-increases (quite cor-
rect in themselves) to exaggerate the discrepancy,
only an efficient tariff can prevent their closing,
leaving the wage award and nobody to pay it.
FIVE YEARS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There was a laggard Spring in France five
years ago. The apple-trees were late in
budding and the corn late above the ground
—the corn that was to be reaped by old
men and old women, with young girls com-
ing down through the poppies to bring jugs
of cider and the latest news of war they had
heard in the village square. ' A brief Spring
it was, I remember. The cold winds ceased
suddenly and gave place to a brassy sun
that made a quivering haze in the apple-
orchards and sent the fat shopkeepers of
Paris and tne other big towns flocking to
the sands of St. Malo and Boulogne. There
they coulu sit all day in their white flannels
under the striped awnings, and discuss the
Caillaux case in all its aspects while their
shrill-voiced children built castles in the
sand.
Journeying through France now it is odd
to recall those days. Spring shows signs
of coming early this year, but it comes to a
different France. For it is hardly possible
to think of France nowadays except in
terms of this broad strip of country that
runs in a boomerang from Verdun to the
sea. The spell of this devastated zone lies
heavily on the rest of the country and on the
national mind, paralysing, to a great extent,
their normal activities. Look over any of
the journals and you will see a change. It
is as if the pens that were cast aside five
years ago had been seized by stockbrokers.
The Parisian papers are not so bright and
brilliant in their discussions of the Peace
Conference as they used to be over Bern-
stein’s plays and the poetry of the Parnas-
sians. and the young- men are not busy
writing fierce pamphlets. Yet five years ago
their pamphlets on the Caillaux case
flooded the bookstalls of the smallest towns,
and talk of duels was in the air.
For the time being there really does seem to
be a slight torpor in the French mind. V it* l
the effect of this devastated zone upon you
that torpor is easy to understand. Its
atmosphere can only be described as one of
evil enchantment. The dark and splin-
tered woods above Amiens are like nothing
but the goblin woods that haunted you as a
child. A ruined house stares at you through
an opening in the trees with horrible, un-
bidden eyes. It might be either the haunt
or the face of an ogre. So full of black
magic is the effect that it would be easy to
imagine the webs of great spiders among the
dark and twisted trees. But no: there is
not a sign of life anywhere.
. In the open country around Albert nn<
-B-apaume the effect is different, but none tin


less powerful.' Nothing is changed from
a few months ago except that the armies
which gave the devastation meaning have
gone. At first sight the tortured earth
looks as it must have looked before the hist
plant thrust its head up or the first li\e
thing crawled up out of the sea. Here on
picks out scrans of galvanised-iron, broxen
bricks, barbed-wire, shell-cases—all the
rubble of war. The zig-zag lines of trenches
ormose one another like grinning skeleton
and the rotting sandbags are in disarray.
In the distance a few dark shapes move
among the shell-holes like gnomes. lhey
are not gnomes, though. They are
of Chinese coolies pottering about at then
work of salvage.
Five years ago a Chinese coolie would
have been a nine-days' wonder in a French
village, but now they seem to fit into this
battered landscape. Indeed, there is hardly
a race or tribe of men that would appear
altogether strange or alien here. Even fur-
ther south it does not give you a shock to
see Indians loading hay into the trucks or
Manchus carrying bully-beef up the gang-
ways of the transports. In the old days
France used to have a sentimental fondness
for these strange colored people whom it
had read of in the books of Pierre Loti and
other romanticists. I remember how, _in
the first month of the war, the Parisian
women crowded round the first draft of
Turcos that came over from Morocco, show-
ering cigarettes and kisses on tnem. A dark-
skinned man in Paris was a rare thing, to
be petted like a Pomeranian terrier. Not
that the Turcos were all colored, though.
The first one I saw was a young Moroccan
Frenchman who had come down wounded
from Alsace, and who answered with a
sophisticated shrug the question one usually
put to soldiers in those days: “German atro-
cities? Well, yes, I have seen some. For
example, the statue of the Kaiser’s father at
Strasbourg.”
But though the sympathy of France for
the colored man may have been merely senti-
mental and romantic in those days it has
a stronger basis now. A Frenchman would
be annoyed if you pointed out that these
dark-skinned coolies and soldiers were work-
ing for good wages, and not for the dream
of Danton or Jeanne D’Arc. This ami-
able bias of the French mind makes it hard
for it to comprehend the prejudices of new
countries and their passionate resolution to
keep their racial strain pure at all costs.
The Frenchman has always been a little self-
absorbed, a little slow at seeing other
people’s point of view. All that was best
in civilisation lay in France, and all that
threatened it came from across the Rhine,
and its main defence was the French sword
and the seventy-five! It remains to be seen
whether this view has been at all widened
in the past five years.
In some respects it certainly has. There
is Amiens, for instance, with its beautiful
cathedral that was within an ace of being
destroyed by German guns. In the cathe-
dral a statue is being erected of a soldier,
the defender of the faith ; but it is an Aus-
tralian soldier who is to stand there in
stone, with a slouch hat instead of a steel
helmet. Our 50,000 dead have not died in
vain if coming generations of Frenchmen
see that statue and remember. We were
unknown in Amiens five years ago. To-day
we are the most honored of all the peoples
of the earth. And any Frenchman who
has seen that statue will not fail to have
some sympathy with our ideals when world-
questions have to be decided.
At least it is to be hoped so. But in
France to-day people are mainly occupied
with their own interests, commercial and
national —even more than they were five
years ago. It would be easy to be cynical
about the France that belauds itself every
morning in the daily papers and grows
hysterical about the necessity of sinking the
boot into either Russia or the fallen enemy.
The best of this generation is either dumb
for a while or lying among the shell-holes,
and it is chiefly the middle-aged stockbroker
who is articulate. The people who have
brofited much and suffered little have come
back from Nice and Bordeaux and all the
other places that gave them refuge when the
German guns threatened Paris, and it is
natural that they should have much to say
now.
But if France to-day seems a little petty
and self-seeking, thinking of her own in-
terests rather than those of the rest of the
world, one has to remember the dead and
be silent. The young men, whose absence
is so marked in every French town now,
fought for a Divine dream, if we can believe
Pegity, Barbusse and all the rest that have
spoken for them. And it is truer even
than five years ago that every real patriot
has two countries, one of them France.
VANCE PALMER.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The New Mailed Fists.
The objects of the League of Nations are
to inaugurate the reign of peace, to protect
the weak against the strong, and to do
justice even though the heavens fall. Yet
it begins by following the line of least resist-
ance and sacrificing two w T eak Allies to two
strong ones. Japan claims to be the suc-
cessor and inheritor of Germany in China.
In other words, China was robbed b3 r Ger-
many, and, instead of handing back what was
lost/ Japan secures the profit and the con-
cessions instead. For Ah Chow it is, so
far as a considerable part of his property is
concerned, a change of masters, and the new
one is closer at hand than the old. Italy
will apparently get Fiume by sheer persist-
ence. According to the terms of the bargain
it made with two of the Allies before the
United States came in or Wilson’s Fourteen
jagged Points were dreamed of, it obtained
the great port of Trieste, which is mostly
Italian, and the port of Pola, which is
doubtfully Italian. Then beyond the limits
of the agreement it has demanded the city
and harbor of Fiume, which isn’t Italian
except for a small exotic trading population
that makes a great howl like any other
group of importers. Fiume is the natural
and only valuable port of Jugo-Slavia, but
Serbia, which is the kernel of Jugo-Slavia,
has lost half its population in three wars and
has hardly a copper or an unburnt building
to its name. Wilson’s Fourteen Prongs
fully cover Serbia’s case, but nobody cares
much to fight for them with so many other
troubles on hand. Possibly no one ever
will fight for them while this generation lasts.
These things illustrate how the eleventh-hour
Allies control the situation. Japan, which
wasn’t eleventh-hour in point of time but was
in other ways, is reckoned to have sacrificed
300 lives in the war —300 out of 50,000,000
or so. Its profits include many advantages
in China, some of the Pacific islands, and a
sort of moral claim for the free admission of
its low-wage people to Australia and other
Allied countries —a claim that is to be pro-
secuted at a more convenient season. Inci-
dentally, it got the chance to increase its
sales to Australia tenfold during the war
period. The U.S. increased its sales of
goods to us about threefold. The United
States is reputed to have lost 36,000 men in
the war—about one-tenth of what Serbia
sacrificed. Italy lost more heavily but less
in proportion to its population than any
other of the Great Powers, Japan only ex-
cepted. Its butcher’s bill is set down at
460,000, while France, with much the same
population, has buried 1,400,000. The
United States, Japan, and in a less degree
Italy have thus a stupendous reserve of man-
power to argue with, which some of their
battered and heroic confederates have not.
Through taking an undue share of the heat
and burden of the day they have compara-
tively little strength to collect their wages
with at sundown. The United States, for-
tunately, wants little except command of the
sea, all the commerce it can lay its hands
on, the sole right to do any annexations that
may seem desirable among the Latin-Ameri-
can States —all European intervention being
prohibited by the Monroe Doctrine —and the
dignity of being the Father of the League,
and the Originator, by virtue of Wilson’s
Fourteen Spikes, of the Peace. But the
other two are out after territorial advan-
tages which don’t square any too well with
the idea of self-determination. The Mailed
Fist policy has got to work early.
♦-
The Australian Mole.
The situation as regards lead and copper,
and in a less degree wheat, is that these
industries are far too big in proportion to
other things. Supposing Australia was a
sane, well-balanced country which made for
itself every article of lead and copper and
brass that it could possibly want —with, it
may be, something over for export—it would
have a fairly large market under its own
control and could regulate prices so that
the miner could have the fl per five-hour day
that he is reported to aim at. There would
then be fewer men employed in the lead-
mines ; but for every man who lost his job
in the mines there would be room for two
or three or half a dozen in healthier
industries on the surface, and the net result
would be more population and more tax-
payers and more unionists. The ores, which
can never be replaced, would be used up
more slowly, and therefore the national capi-
tal would last longer, and the day when we
have to import raw lead and copper would
be postponed. Nothing in the Ten Com-
mandments or any other commandments
lays it down that this generation
should be a hog, eating up all that Nature
has stored, and leaving deserted towns and
disused railways and holes in the ground and
big debts for those who come after. Lead- .
mining, judged not only by the miners’
accounts, but by all other evidence, isn’t,
and is never likely to be, such an eminently
desirable occupation that, in a single State,
10,000 men should struggle for that sort
of job mainly that they may export 90 or
95 per cent, of the stuff, and sell it at any
price outside people like to give, and be
lead-poisoned so that outside people may be
healthy. This community, if it would only
realise its mauhood, needn’t be anybody’s
beast of lading, to do for strangers the sort
of work which the Greeks and Homans re-
served for slaves. Nor are places like
Broken Hill so wonderful that people should
make an extra rush to live in them. Mining,
except as a necessary adjunct to local manu-
factures, hasn’t even the dubious honor of
being one of the “primary industries” which
are the fetich of the shoddy press. It be-
longs to a separate category—the destruc-
tive industries. A sane community would
devote itself heart and soul to supplying
metal goods for its own use and shifting
superfluous miners from their mole-like
labors underground to the surface. Having
made some progress in this direction it might
put an export duty on unmanufactured ores
and shift more moles from underground,
and tell the strange peoples to mole for
themselves. This sort of remedy couldn’t
be applied in a day. When the community
has toiled and argued and struggled and
borrowed for generations to create a disease
nothing can cure it in a day. But the other
process—the holding up of Australian in-
dustry in general, with possibilities of riot
and bloodshed, because some people outside
Australia won’t pay enough for lead or
other things to make a big improvement in
wages and conditions possible—won’t cure
the evil in a millennium. Australia always
comes up against one insoluble problem. It
allows a class of rich importers with foreign
interests —a class which is rich enough to
control or influence about 90 per cent, of
the press—to instruct it that its mission
in life is to be something that never hap-
pened before and isn’t likely to happen in
the immediate future. It is to be a raw-
material country working for foreign mar-
kets in imitation of India and China and
Darkest Africa, and yet earn by competition
with them in the open market 10 or 12
times their rate of pay. In the last six
years, a period during which the upward
movement in wages has been rather strenu-
ous, it has borrowed £118.000,000 —not war
expenditure, wdiich is a separate item —in
order to pay the otherwise impossible wrnges
with. This is called public works expendi-
ture, but all the money conies here in the
shape of finished goods which our peons and
ryots and. coolies can’t pay for out of their
earnings.
Secretary Montagu.
Next time William Watt is cabling to
Hughes and Cook he might enclose a mes-
sage to Montagu, Secretary for India, to
the effect that he is a mischief-maker and
quite unfit for his job. India has, for a few
years past, been in a considerable state of
fuss. It is, of course, the old question of
some form of self-government. English poli-
ticians have been drawing a red-herring
across the track by telling the Indian that
his magnificent conduct in sending about
70.000 soldiers to the war shows him to be
a worthy and noble and equal Son of Em-
pire. Because of the ha’porth he did at the
Front he is entitled, not to Parliamentary
Government, which would be very annoying
to J. Bull, but to free admission to Aus-
tralia, which would be very unpleasant for
us. Thus Secretary Montagu :
I say to our colleagues representing the great
Dominions that this position of equality in the
League is wholly inconsistent with the treatment
of India’s citizens in British Dominions which puts
them lower than citizens of other parts of the
Empire.
Well, when Britain deprives 315.000,000
people—three-fourths of the Empire’s popu-
lation —of the commonest right, of citizen-
ship, and puts them on a level, so far as con-
cerns the management of their own affairs,
with Secretary .Montagu’s poodle-dog,' how
are poor ignorant people like us to suppose
that no slight is intended ? Australia treats
India much better than Britain ever tried to
do. It doesn’t deprive that country of the
simple right to have a voice in the making
of its own laws. Britain does. It is will-
ing that India should have the self-govern-
ment so many of its people clamor for.
Britain isn’t. This country’s views about
a population which is G 3 times that of Aus-
tralia yet only supplied one-fifth as many
soldiers may be low enough. We know that
if this country had supplied 5600 soldiers—
the same proportion—and most of them had
been sent away from the Belgian front soon
after arrival, our views about ourselves
would be unpublishable. But even if we
think that folk who make so poor a showing
aren’t desirable citizens, quite apart from
the fact that Secretary Montagu treats
them as poodle-dogs, we seldom say anything
save under great provocation. Secretary
Montagu not only gives but is great provo-
cation.
A Superfluous Addition to War’s
Horrors.
The basic idea of one bad army custom is that
anyone below commissioned rank who con-
tracts V.D. is without exception a species
of criminal. The V.D. sufferer —unless he is
an officer —not only loses his pay for the
whole time he is ill, and has the nature of
iiis malady inscribed in his pay-book, but
has his shame publicly proclaimed to his
unit. On any A.I.F. parade the following
is still liable to be read out in “Orders”:
“No. 1234 Private Blank, 0.0., Nought Bat-
talion, was admitted to No. 0 Australian
Dermatological Hospital”—and then the
date. It may be said: “This merely sig-
nifies transference to a hospital for skin-
diseases and has not necessarily anything
to do with V.D.” But, in fact, everyone
knows, and is meant to know, what is wrong.
It would really be fairer, and far more satis-
factory to V.D. patients in general, if, the
man’s name having been put in “Orders, ’
the n iture of his disease was specified in
every case. In civil life it is a criminal libel
to say of a man that he has, or has had.
syphilis. The Army method is to leave the
question a debatable one, to be canvassed by
comrades land enemies) at the time, and
indefinitely afterwards. The public-notifica-
tion penalty is not incurred by officers. Not
that the men are considered, officially, to
have better facilities for escape. The re-
verse is of course the case. Nor yet that
the officer is supposed to be more innocent
of the dangers of promiscuity. The officer
is shielded because he is an officer —which
is significant of the origin of the custom.
If, in the Army, adequate precautions could
be taken to give the average fallible young-
male a sporting chance of escape, the injus-
tice would not be so flaming. But nothing
of the sort is attempted; nor, to give the
authorities their due, is it practicable under
modern conditions. In Cairo, in London,
in Paris, wherever the young soldier goes
on leave with money in his pocket, he finds
himself surrounded by women. Their solici-
tations are reinforced by liquor, much of it
bad. He has to either remain celibate —a
rare feat, unfortunately, in the case of a
youngster fresh from the trenches—or run
an odds-on chance of V.D. In effect, the
social system places every temptation in his
way and the Army punishes him if he yields.
There is no sense or equity in such an
arrangement. It is advisable on merely
utilitarian grounds for the Army to treat
its V.D. patients like any others: and for
the change to be made public. There are
thousands who would never have enlisted
had they known of the senseless liability in
the way of life-long shame that it involved ;
and there are other thousands who will be
careful not to enlist in any future war while
the situation remains unaltered.
♦
A Dramatic and Elocutionary Treasurer.
Recently, in a moment of pride, the head
of N.S.W.’s Dramatic and Elocutionary Gov-
ernment declared that in three out of the
last four years, or two out of the iast three
years, or something like that, his crowd had
produced a surplus, and that it has another
preparing. The statement is quite true.
Holman and Co. have had surpluses. Under
the laws of 1904 and 1905 the State pledged
itself to pay £400,000 and any further sums
that Parliament might order in reduction
of the Public Debt, or rather in reduction
of the pace at which the Public Debt in-
creased. A lot of money was borrowed from
people who thought this proviso was a sign
of solvency. But in 1914 the Holman
crowd, being quite unable to understand that
a financial obligation on which money lias
been borrowed is different from a resolution
passed by a snatch vote at a party meeting,
enacted that, though this money had to be
paid, the Government could take it back if
it was required to fill a deficit. The result
was that, whereas £1,326,872 reached the
Sinking Fund out of revenue in the three
years to June, 1913, the payments during
the three years to June, 1916, were only
£17,824. That helped to make Holman’s
surpluses, and he hadn’t even the thin excuse
of the war to cover his manoeuvre. Then
every year taxes were shoved up handsomely,
and once or twice railway and tramway
rates were raised. These matters also helped
Holman’s surpluses, though they were legi-
timate enough, which the Sinking Fund
business wasn’t. The strange and incurable
point about Holman, however —the one
which makes it as imoossible for him to be
a financier as for an ape to be a man—is
that he seems to regard the gifts of Provi-
dence onlv as so many securities for another
loan. .Tust as a pasha of Abdul Hamid’s
day might feel wild at the sight of money in
the hands of a subject and regard it as a
sign that his tax-gatherer had missed a
chance of robbery, so Holman appears to
feel wild at a missed chance of getting fur-
ther into debt. To stop borrowing, he seem-
ingly believes, would be an aspersion on the
State’s credit, as suggesting that it couldn’t
borrow. In a limited sense he is, beyond
doubt, the most capable financier the Ma
State ever hact, for he raises more money
than any of his predecessors even imagined.
Since his party has been in power direct
taxes per inhabitant (not in the lump) have
The Search.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Australia knows her son.
Let this word he said
Of the great deed done:
In the path of the wind and the swallow
Others shall follow and folloic;
But he led.
Into the northern blue,
With white icings spread,
Circling and soaring he flew
Like a thing cloud-bred.
Higher and ever higher!
Then, with an eagle’s sweep
Upon some far prey,
Towards the goal of a great desire
He seemed to leap
And pass away.
Waves that wander to and fro.
Tides at ebb and tides at flow,
Crested breakers curving green,
What have ye seen, what have ye seen?
We have raced the wide seas o’er
From Finisterre to Labrador;
And we have watched the ice-fleet sail
Upon the midnight gleaming pale
From ports where yet the winter lay
In shrouded night on Baffin’s Bay.
We have met the summer breeze
Blowing a scent of tropic trtes
Above the warm and weedy flow
That sings and dreams of Mexico.
We, with all our million lips,
Laughing, have kissed a thousand ships ;
And day on day, ’twixt shore and shore,
We run to kiss a thousand more.
What else, what else, oh, rovers green,
At dawn or midnight have ye seen?
Twice we ran before the gale
With low clouds on our spumy trail;
For half a night, close-reefed, we lay
At shelter snug in Galway Bay ;
Then northward, with the piping wind,
We left the Arran rocks behind,
And up and up, through all the seas,
We tossed about the Hebrides.
We have seen the fisher fleet
Hard-driven through the blinding sleet
And marked a fathom-depth beneath
The granite rocks, with weedy teeth,
That waited till the fall of day
To snare a blind and fluttering prey ;
And we have touched the fogs that stole.
With chill white wings above the shoal.
What else, what else? Oh, wondering eyes,
Saw ye that passed along skies?
We have seen the white stars shine,
And meteors flash a fiery line
Across the darkness, as if night
Were blown to spray of flying light ;
And we have seen the great moon make
Our racing paths a golden lake,
While oft by day, ’twixt cloud and cloud,
The sun looked out with glances proud,
Or stayed an hour in open laughter
To tell how summer followed after.
What else, what else? What thing went by
On broad white wings below the sky?
We have seen and we have seen;
And crests are white and waves are green.
The young tides run, the old tides sleep ;
And there are secrets still to keep.
Spanish gold lies very deep.
But who shall tell you where?
This ye know, that green seas weep
Sorrows none may share.
We have seen and we have seen ;
And ways are wide and winds are keen;
But the ships that come and the ships that go
Seek a haven that none may know.
Ship of the sky and ship of the sea
Are sport of the wind, even as we.
The young tides rove and the old sleep w T ell,
But their secrets none may tell.
* * * *
Sea and skv. sea and sky,
Ye have spoken an ancient lie.
Keep your wealth of Spanish gold,
Keep the treasures that ye hold •
But ye cannot hold the Man —
He was free since earth began.
Lo, in his nlace above the kings,
He has beaten you with wings;
And out of the heart of a mystery vain
He comes again, he comes again !
Into the western cloud,
With white wings spread,
He went with a heart too proud
The winds to dread.
In the path of the tern and the swallow
Others shall follow and follow;
But he led!
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.


IF BILIOUS OR CONSTIPATED TAKE
CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
Harmless fruit laxative cleanses
stomach, liver and bowels
without griping or
discomfort.
An acid stomach, clogged with fermenting,
ill-digested food, means that the liver is not
doing its duty. Nature provided ripe fruit
juices to keep the liver up to its work.
California Syrup of Figs—“Califig”—is a
deliciously refreshing fruit laxative which is
always in season. You can keep it at hand,
an d it will be an unfailing friend whenever
the tongue is coated, bowels sluggish, breath
foul throat dry or sore, stomach full of
wiud, and head hot and aching. You can
take a dose whenever it is needed, as safely
as you could eat fresh fruit. In a short
while you will feel the bent fit. The bowels
will be gently relieved, and the stomach
cleansed and sweetened as the undigested
food is moved on and got rid of. The tongue
will grow clean again and the head will be
cooled and cleared. There is no mistaking
the beneficial effects of California Syrup of
Figs—“Califig.” Directions are with it for
adults and children of all ages. This
pleasant laxative is good for all, and cannot
possibly harm even the most delicate, but
you must ask for “Califig”—California
Syrup of Figs, and look for the name and
trade-mark of the California Fig Syrup Co.
All chemists sell “Califig”—California Syrup
of Figs—in two sizes, 1/6 and 2/4. [1
91
■ca
UL\
mmx&m
m
l v 1 ■ t
wp
To Keep Young'
Use a
Self-
Heating
ROYAL IRON
Benzine costing twopence
does the week’s ironing with
a “ ROYAL.”
ASK TO SEE IT.
In SYDNEY—Civil Service Stores.
Mark Foy’s Ltd.
Nock & Kirby Ltd.
Alex. Smith I.td.
In BRISBANE —Barry & Roberts.
In PERTH—William Sandover & Co.
risen between 200 and .’>00 per cent., anu no
other State can show anything like that.
The Dramatic ana Elocutionary Premier’s
capacity for finding money to pay interest on
new mortgages is worthy of Gladstone at
his best. His capacity for finding even an
extra penny to avoid giving mortgages or
to pay them off is unworthy of a 10-year-old
infant. It is no ordinary man who, having
run up the annual interest bill during his
term of office from £8,250,000 to £6,077,000
a year, dug up the extra without
turning a hair. And if his political life
lasts there is every hope that he will douole
the performance. Yet the fact that, if he
started to raise another £3,000.000 a year
for works purposes now he wouldn’t require
to raise another £3,000,000 later on to pay
interest on another dead horse, is, it would
seem, quite beyond his comprehension. He
can no more rise to it than a wombat can
learn Greek, and anybody who has tried to
teach a wombat Greek, especially a bor-
rowed wombat, will recognise that the situa-
tion is impossible.
The Decomposed Hand.
The “Bulletin of the U.S. Labor Bureau”
published a sketch which is being reproduced
here as a warning to the local employer.
The U.S. soldier comes home, and a paw the
size of a ham and marked “Ilis Old Job” is
held out to him. In fact, his fellow country-
men have been waiting for him, because
they were dying of overwork in his absence.
The U.S., with its high tariff and its dollar-
lmnger, pushed up its foreign sales of goods
—mostly manufactured —from £466,000.000
worth in 1914 to £1,245.000.000 in 1917.
What they were in 1918 isn’t known yet, but
it was about that time that our astonished
Beeby found expert “wage slaves” on the
other side of the Pacific making nearly £1000
a year. The men who stayed at home worked
at high pressure to improve the shining
hour. And the II.S., with its new
ambition to boss the world's commerce and
finance as well as its manufactures —in
fact, to succeed where the Hun failed —
means to keep up steam. So Samuel is
glad to see an industrial reinforcement come
along, and holds out the glad hand. Uncle
Sam was helped, of course, by his proximity
to the scene of action; but Japan, which is
even further from Europe than Australia is,
did the same sort of thing, and increased
its foreign sales from £59,000,000 in 1914
to £160,000,000 in 1917. Australia, mean-
time, was busy with loans, building unpay-
able railways and equally unpayable argu-
ments about the rights of man. Its
foreign sales diminished, and its cultivated
area declined, and its factories became
fewer, and the people employed both
in agriculture and manufactures grew
less. Many employers who promised to
keep his job for the returned soldier
haven’t done it because there is no
longer any job. Cold-footers who stayed at
home to run the country set themselves de-
liberately to destroy the billet by laying
down the O.B.U. principle that every em-
ployer is a public enemy to be wiped out.
The owner of the glad hand is often bank-
rupt or gone out of business, having sold
the remnants for a song. Leaders of Labor,
or at least certain people wdio are loud
enough to be taken for leaders, solemnly
warn every sort of employer that he is a
species of abhorred criminal, and that any
new business he may start —also his old
business unless he can wind up and get away
in good time—is liable to seizure when their
party gets its next turn of power. At the
same time they call down the opprobrium
of Heaven on him for not having a fist filled
with gold to extend to his one-time employee.
It is a mixed, mad situation.
»
The Home-coming.
Last week there arrived in Australia a ship-
load of military prisoners, men who were
convicted abroad and have been returned to
complete their sentences here. The Sydney
contingent, in the words of a daily paper
report, "was marched from the train man-
acled. Many wore wound-stripes and long-
service chevrons; and some of the younger
men seemed to feel their position keenly.”
A. number of these men, perhaps the majo-
rity, are not criminals in any real sense at
all. They are military criminals, which is
a different matter altogether. It is a serious
crime in the Army to strike a superior; to be
drunk in the line; to show cowardice; to
disobey an order. Merciless punishments
are awarded for these and a dozen similar
offences. Thousands of members of the
A.I.F. have appeared before courts-martial
on charges of disobeying military orders.
There is no trickier thing to define in mili-
tary law than a “military order,” and it has
to be remembered that judgment on this
question has, for the last 4| years, rested
with notoriously inept tribunals. An order
to groom a horse, to clean a bandolier, to
remain in camp—all these are military
orders within the meaning of the definition,
if given by an officer; and countless soldiers
have been punished for disobeying them. On
the other hand, an order to undergo an
operation is not legal, even if delivered by
a field-marshal. Up to the middle of 1917
members of the A.I.F. were being sentenced
by D.C.M.’s for refusing inoculation. It
was then established that an order to under-
go inoculation is not legal. And similar
errors have been made in respect of practi-
cally every other army “crime.” It was
no doubt necessary that the utmost severity
should be exercised in the face of the enemy.
But the fighting is over now. Not one good
purpose can be served by vindictiveness; and
no more vindictive punishment could be
imagined, so far as the better class of men
who arrived last week are concerned, than
that they should be paraded, in the land
they fought for, as malefactors. The worst
of them at least started out with the inten-
tion of doing their duty, and to that extent
they are better than some of those who man-
aged to stay at home. The best of them
are probably guiltless even of what milita-
rism knows as “crime.” A popular method
of celebrating the arrival on earth of peace,
and of as much goodwill as was to be ex-
pected in the circumstances, would be to
amnesty these men. They have suffered
enough.
By the death of Norman Macleod The
Bulletin loses a very capable business
manager and every member of the staff loses
a warm-hearted
friend. He did
not come into
the office till he
was a grown
man: after leav-
ing Sydney
G r a m m a r
School he went
to Ballarat to
cultivate h i s
taste for
mechanics, and
from there he
passed out on
to the big min-
ing fields of
Australia to
learn in a few
years how hard
toil was done
and how the
men who did it
lived. The ex-
perience broad-
ened his mind
and gave him
confidence in
the policy for
which The
Bulletin had
stood from its
earliest days. So
there was always
perfect accord be-
tween the two
sides of the office.
Those respon-
sible for the
conduct of the
paper found his
judgment sound,
his counsel
wise. But above
all, he could not
think a crooked thought; and while he had
always the courage to do the right thing
as he saw it, with him the right thing was
never the mean thing.
“Bad Australian,” from England:—
The discontent among those actually employed is
a mere circumstance compared with that of the
thousands at present walking the streets or standing
in queues at the labor depots clamoring for a job;
and the Coupon Government has done nothing more
practical towards dealing with a very alarming
situation than to allow selected units of the unem-
ployed a weekly dole barely sufficient to keep them
on the hunt for work.
Meantime Yankee and Japanese commercial agents
are securing orders that should go to British firms.
A recent order for 750,000 tons of steel rails for re-
construction work in France was offered to British
and American manufacturers. When the British firm
got down to bedrock cost without profit it was still
SOs. per ton above the Yankee price. So 500,000
tons were allotted to the United States mills. The
remaining 250,000 tons were held over for British
manufacturers; but as they are unable to guarantee
delivery owing to the threat of strikes, the rest of
the order will probably be filled in the States, too.
In addition to this the Yankees are reported to
have secured orders for locomotives and girder steel
to the value of £750,000 and £16,760 respectively,
because British firms could not guarantee early
delivery. This is depressing enough without the
knowledge that large numbers of orders for cotton
goods have been placed in Japan, and the astounding
statement was made a few days ago at Westminster
that Japanese manufacturers were prepared to deliver
cotton fabrics in this country at less than British
cost of raw material!
While the queues at the labor depots take up
NORMAN MACLEOD, manager of THE BULLETIN:
died May 30; aged SO.
another hole in their belt, the old, old wrangle goes
on between the Protectionists, who want to keep
hunger from the English with a stiff tariff, and the
hardshell Freetrader, who demands “the abolition of
all restrictions on commercial enterprise.”
The first William Webster that Australia
knew was a schoolmaster at Norfolk Island.
His name figures in a record of the year
1796. His salary was £10 per annum, and
somewhere about 1797 he was dismissed for
not being worth it.
“Exile,” from the U.S.A.: —
At a conference in Chicago of societies formed
throughout the United States to foster foreign trade,
the chairman urged the members to send out their
smartest salesmen, not of the money-spendirg, enter-
taining type, but men versed in local conditions. Prices
must then be cut so that the contemplated dumping
would be perfect. Local manufacturers, he impressed on
them, had to be squashed before American goods
could occupy the foreign markets. It was an in-
formative discourse to an Australian! If our Com-
monwealth Parliament does not soon get busy on a
new Protective tariff, Australian industry will have
to go through a crisis due to that allied onslaught
on our manufactures about to be made by the
United States and Japan. The former only await
more ships.
Dear Bulletin,— I have read about the
Australian soldier till I am tired. In this
cquntry we would have to sit in the dark after
sunset unless a foreign brown person supplied
us with matches. The individual who is
willing to put up with that, and votes for
the crowd which is the cause of that, and
professes thut
he doesn’t know
bow to remedy
THAT hasn’t
any right to
look pompons in
uniform or out
of it. —Yours,
etc., Henry
Horsecollab.
In the way
of Pecksniffian
dignity the Hun
is a marvel. As
an instance the
Hun Govern-
ment threatens
to reject the
Peace Treaty
because it in-
volves the
“moral degrada-
tion” of the
country. In the
occupied dis-
tricts of North-
ern Italy the
same Hun
wanted the har-
vest gathered in
that he might
steal it, so he
worked the
civilian popula-
tion, men women
and children, on
the chain-gang
from 4 a.in. to
8 p.m. with
lavish flogging
to keep them
up to the mark.
And the chain-
gang might have
been their permanent fate and ours
if the Hun had come out on top, for
he not only wanted cheap labor —it was his
object to thin out the people and make room
for German settlers. Probably the Govern-
ment is quite honest in its present attitude.
Hans regards himself as a god in temporary
eclipse. Nothing but death will put it out
of his square cranium that whatever a boss
Hun does is right and that it is plain in-
solence to object.
“Bert R.”: Most Diggers will tell you
that collecting deferred pay from Pearce’s
Defence Department is a fine training for a
bad-debt collector. Here’s my experience.
Paybook audited in London prior to em-
barkation in January; arrived home in
March; discharged in June, and paid 50 per
cent, deferred pay on account. Was
told the balance would be available in
about three months. Gave them until
October (four), then called to inquire.
Nothing doing; was informed that my
N.E.-sheet was not yet to hand, and
advised to try again after next English mail.
Waited another month, then tried to collect
a further 25 per cent., which would still have
left them with a good hold on me for pos-
sible contingencies. Came a nose-dive after
waiting about for over two hours. Got mad
and demanded to see the O.C. Another
long wait, then referred to a staff-sergeant.
The S.-S. was busy ; could I call in the morn-
ing? I couldn’t. After an interminable
time he condescended to see me. Went over
the whole business for the fourth time, and
finally trotted off to look up my card. Came
back looking fierce. “What did I mean by
saying I had only drawn 50 per cent, when
I had drawn 75? Inquired when this pay-
ment was supposed to have been made. He
gave a date two months old, but I denied all
knowledge of it. After further search lie
located the money lying unclaimed in the
Commomvealth Bank. Got my final settle-
ment just 12 months after leaving England,
although everything was quite straightfor-
ward and my paybook “audited and signed by
the London office before I embarked.
Even a Coroner can find himself in diffi-
culties. The other day The Bulletin ques-
tioned the result of an inquiry into the death
of an old man who was run over by a motor-
car in a Sydney suburb. The Coroner said
he didn’t like the look of things, yet, because
he did not believe any jury would convict,
he found that it was “accidental death.” All
the available evidence said that the car was
crawling at no more than 10 miles an hour,
and the Government medical-officer said that
it was possible for even a creeping car to in-
flict the injuries which killed the man ; so,
though the Coroner had grave doubts, he
concluded that all he could do was to find
that it was an accident. If juries went on
Coroners’ personal opinions and not on the
evidence available, the verdict might have
been something else.
If Stewart McArthur qared for the vacancy
on the Vic. County Court bench caused
by Judge Eagleson’s death he could have it
readily, but he is aiming higher. W. II.
Williams, formerly M.L.A. for St. Kilda; T.
C. Brennan, who is pocketing a lot of fees
for defending the innocent people the police
will persist in placing in the dock ; and W.
Mann are among the “mentioned.”
Professor David, of Sydney Uni., imparted
to a swank gathering of Imperialists the
other night some of the ideas he had ab-
stracted from the war. lie had not gone
far before the fashionably-decorated assem-
blage began to look down its nose. Several
speakers had worked off the conventional easy
talk about “one fleet” and “one flag” and all
the rest of it. But David wanted to know
how much pride they had in their fleet: —
“You must realise how urgent it is to remember
that this is an Australian navy we are building up.
Where are we to look for the material to man these
ships of Gin's? Only to the mercantile marine; and
yet hitherto ships in the Australian coastal service
have been filled by foreigners. Do you not see the
significance of this —of the need there is for us to
see that the conditions of employment in the mercan-
tile marine are such as will attract young men to
the sea and keep them there as a reserve for our
ships of war against the day they may be needed?
Our own ships manned by our own people are our
best guarantee of safety and of our navy being what
we want to See it—Australian in every sense.”
As on that very day the Australian mercan-
tile mariner had gone on strike for, among
other things, improved living conditions
afloat, David’s remarks sounded to that well-
fed multitude like a sermon by Brother
Trotsky. There was a vast and stony silence.
But how right he was!
Whatever may be said of Ila elthoru,
M.L.C., ex-Minister for Farm Produce
i \"ic.), who has fallen out with some of his
constituents in the North-West, nobody can
accuse him of being a snob. There are few
Cabinet Ministers, past or present, who will-
ingly allow the limelight to include a view
of their early battlings. Some of them are
morbidly sensitive about the «rocer’s delivery
basket or the brass door-handles from which
they leapt off into a Career; but Hagel-
thorn seems to be rather proud that lie
struggled up from a horny-handed job.
Probably it was his youthful experience that
made him, while a Minister, rather more
rough-and-ready with the rural producer
than was necessary.
Hawker is the typical Australian. Be-
cause of men like him our soldiers at the
front were described as “all storm troops.”
It was a _ magnificent thing to start out as
the first air-ColumbuS, on a small ’plane with
a single engine, so that he had no second
string to his bow and his solitary egg was
in one basket. The deed ranked him along-
side or ahead of the old sea-Columbus with
his three sailing ferry-boats, all leaky. But
it wasn’t the thing that was likely to be done
by a man whose country had a high place in
the engineering world. The steamer with
one engine became obsolescent for high-class
Atlantic work in 1868. and the one-engine
airplane was born obsolescent for that kind
of service. The Australian supplied flip
meat nart of his army in the war—magni-
ficent meat—but he had to rely on England
for nearly all the mechanical part which
saved the meat from being mere helpless food
on a dish. He has spasmodic attacks of
doing most wonderful things with inadequate
appliances because he hasn’t learned to maim
apnliances. In fact, he is the one-engine
man, but none save an extraordinary person
can have any use for flights across the Atlan-
tic with one engine, and extraordinary men
are scarce. The deed reflects great honor
on the man and the country, but it isn’t
business.


The BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY COMPANY LIMITED.
Head Office: Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
Fline=owners. Iron and Steel Masters.
MANUFACTURERS OF
PIG IRON, BIEEETS, BLOOMS, STEER BAIRS, STBUCTURAR STEER, MERCHANT BARS, WIRE RODS,
SURPHATE OF AMMONIA, etc.
£3,000,000, in 3,000,000 shares of £1 each.
£3,100,000, in 3,100,000 shares of £1 each, fully paid.
£1,000,000
151,300
£818,700
BRANCH OFFICES : RONDON —3 Great Winchester Street. SYDNEY—3S O’Connell Street. ADERAIDE —75 King William Street.
WORKSNEW'CASTRE, BROKEN HIRE, HUMMOCK HIRR, DEVONPORT.
Authorised Capital
Paid-up Capital
6% Debenture Issue
Ress Redeemed ....
THE BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY
1 COMPANY LIMITED.
REGISTRATION OF DEBENTURES
and FEDERAL INCOME TAX.
The Company would remind Holders of Deben-
tures that a Register has been established, and the
Registration of Debentures may be effected at any
time without cost.
The advantage of holding a Registered Debenture
as against an unregistered Bearer Debenture is obvi-
ous, but registration also relieves the holder from
the liability of having a material deduction made by
the Company of Federal Income Tax from each
Interest Coupon.
Under the Act (see Section 16, Federal Income
Tax 1915-1918) the Company may be assessed for
Income Tax on all Debentures remaining unregis-
tered, and such assessment, if made at the current
rate of tax, would amount to about 235. per £3 Coupon.
The inconvenience to which holders of Bearer
Debentures will be put if such a deduction is made
can be avoided if they change their debentures to
“Registered” Debentures, which may, if required, bo
reconverted to “Bearer” Debentures at any time also
without charge.
This change, to be effective, should be made prior
to the Ist July, 1919, when the next interest pay-
ment falls due.
Debentures should be lodged at the Company’s Office,
Equitable Building, Melbourne, for the purposes of
Registration and endorsement, and must have
Coupons attached. F M DICKENSON, Secretary.
28th February, 1919.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Jellicoe has already given a hint of what
he regards as the weak point of Australian
defence as exposed by the Big War. It is
the openness of our harbors to submarine
attack.
Victoria, being able to pay off with its
own funds part of the loan falling due,
made a far better bargain in London than
its less solvent neighbors can do. Yet the
best that Victoria can do is bad enough to
make the Government look serious. The old
loan was £4,000,000 at 4 p.c. (£160,000 a
year interest). The new one is £3,000,000
at 51 p.c. (£165,000 a year interest). As
it is the interest which counts, Victoria thus
really pays more than £1,000,000 to get a
debt of £3,000,000 held over.
There is an illuminating item in the San
Francisco Chronicle of April 2. It tells how
Australia is to-sliip to the Golden Gate “frozen
meat, great ouantities of hemp, hides, tallow,
copra, rabbitskins, wool and other products.”
Then: “The parties will endeavor to secure
co-operation between Australians and the
people of San Francisco with a view to
building in or near San Francisco a textile
mill to manufacture Australia’s raw wool.”
Of course! Yankee manufacturers are to
turn our hemp into ropes, our hides
into leather, our copra into soap and
other things, our rabbitskins into furs
that will masquerade under the Dollar-
God only knows what high-sounding titles,
our wool into flannels, tweeds and the
rest of it. Yankee workpeople are draw
the high wages of skilled industry; Yankee
bottoms are to carry the finished products
back here ; and good Australians —with their
brains in their boots —are to buy them, plus
cost of manufacture, plus customs duties,
plus sky-high freight rates.
The Commonwealth Government has
tickled the cockies of the continent with
the announcement that £lOO,OOO is to go into
the wheat pool, being profit made on the
recent sale of wheatsacks overbought last
season. Poor cocky ! The fact is that, on
the eve of a tremendous rise in the price
of cornsacks and other jute goods, some
smart people bought the Commonwealth’s
stock at a price which promises (tinless the
selling prices are fixed) to yield them, a
profit of some scores of thousands —which
thousands, of course, in addition to the
£lOO,OOO which is being put into the wheat
pool, the cockies will have to pay in the
coming season.
Maoriland’s drastic action with regard to
its shirkers recalls that there is a variety of
Britisher who deliberately came to Aus-
tralia to dodge conscription in the United
Kingdom, landing in some cases as a pas-
senger, in others as a deserting seaman.
M.L. has also supplied a number of the type,
and there are a few of the breed hailing
from America, Italy and France. They
should be required to justify their presence,
and those who can’t do it should be dealt
with on the lines M.L. has adopted. It is
one of the penalties of a country which re-
jects conscription, when the rest of the
world is shouldering the burden, that it
should become a refuge for the off-scourings
of humanity. But that such people, when
the danger is past, should assist in govern-
ing the country they have polluted is over
the odds.
In the Peace settlement large slabs of
China are marked out as “spheres of influ-
ence” for Britain, France and Japan, the
Hun having lost his sphere, likewise the
Russian. In these regions the strangers will
have first call on railway building, banking,
finance and other concessions. They will
“advise” and also supervise. This is what
happens to a big country which hasn t
learned to defend itself, and the League of
Nations doesn’t even attempt to prevent it.
In fact, it organises the arrangement to pre-
vent Leaguers falling out among themselves.
If the British Empire dissolves before Aus-
tralia has learned to stand on its feet,
Britain may retain Westralia as its sphere,
while France, having large interests just
across the water, may have a stretch in the
north, and the U.S. sphere will include Syd-
ney and the east coast.
Acting Prime Minister Watt has spoken a
piece about our debt of gratitude to Japan,
“the sentinel who stood by our side m
the Pacific” during the late dodgasted
war about which so much magnilo-
quence has been hifaluted. That is all right
in a way, but the sentinel is said to have
only sacrificed 29 ships and 300 men in five
years, and he got a lot of territory and con-
cessions in return. Australia, in any case,
has already shown its gratitude to the sen-
tinel, who stuck to his post even after the
tide of battle had passed on, by increasing
its purchases from him about 500 per cent.
It can hardly strike one of these fizzling
matches now without being reminded of the
sentinel.
Edmunds, Rolin and Curlewis, the three
judges of the N. S. Wales Industrial Court,
decided the other day that, as Heydon, Presi-
dent of the Arbitration Court, had vanished
out of his wig, there was nobody to whom
the infuriated union or exasperated employer
could carry an appeal under a particular sec-
tion of the Act. This important part of the
State industrial machinery has been known
to be in a heap ever since Heydon disap-
peared, and the reason for the delay in ap-
pointing a successor is one of the standing
jokes at the junior Bar. Heydon, being
over 70, was passed out last year with
the modern buccaneer.
PROFTEER: “It pays better than the old way, and it's far safer."
Docker and Fitzhardinge. He w T ent. on
leave, pending retirement, and ever since
then the struggle between Attorney-General
Hall and Minister for Justice Garland has
raged with the intensity of a Bolshie riot.
One of the stipulations when the Nationalist
Government was formed to win the war was
that various people would, in case of neces-
sity, be “provided for.” Ex-Speaker Cohen
got a job; and Davy Hall is sure that
Cohen’s need was not to be compared with
his own.
The victims of the bite of the importing
bug turn up in unexpected places. Maughan
having retired from the post of Director of
Education in S. Aus. through ill-health, the
executive of the Teachers’ Union has. de-
cided, among other things, that “the position
should be thrown open to applicants from
all parts of the English-speaking world.”
The motto of the Bad Australian: “There is
always plenty of room for me at the
bottom.”
The Argus almost applauds Protection
when it belongs to the foreigner:—
Over half the castor-oil used in Australia in
recent years has been made within the Common-
wealth from imported seed. One source of supply
of the raw material has recently been cut off, as the
Government of India has prohibited the export of
eastor-oil beans in order to stimulate the manufac-
ture of the oil in India.
It is apparently right that Africa should re-
fuse to export cock-ostriches ; and Turkey
to export high-grade angora rams; and
India to send us castor-oil beans. But it
is a shocking thing that Australians should
propose an export duty on Australian wool
“to stimulate the manufacture” of woollens
in Australia.
Sydney Sun accuses the Holman Govern-
ment of supplying rotten wheat to flour-
millers. Oh, well, that’s not much —we’ve
often heard Ministers called dirty loafers.
Kerr, of the A.M.A., made an impas-
sioned speech to the Broken Hill strikers
about the dividends which absentees had
made. To be exact, the dividends from
Broken Hill have been about £20,000,000 in
the 36 years since the field was discovered,
and absentees only got a part of it. The
absentees who hold Australia’s public secu-
rities collect almost that amount every
year without risk. And Labor loan Govern-
ments are always urging these absentees to
extend their operations.
Harry Coyne, Bananaland’s Minister for
Lands, is not the boisterous, irrepressible
Coyne of the 1912 tramway strike. He has
become the gentle and canny Scotsman of a
party wherein Scots are few. As Minister
for Lands he is a steady grafter, without
any signs of the brilliance of Kyan, Theo-
dore or Fihelly. His latest outbreak in
print is about the timber question. Coyne
thinks it may “develop into a serious pro-
blem, and the public should wake up to the
fact.” But is Coyne waiting fpr the public
to wake and kick him into action? If not,
why doesn’t he go ahead and do the things
that the public interest demands?
Up till the last moment Arthur Robinson,
Vic. Solicitor-General, was threatened with
opposition in the Melbourne South Province,
for which he sought re-election to the House
of Fat. Sculthorpe, Mayor of St. Kilda,
whose posters were out, evidently came to
the conclusion that his hundred-pound
deposit was safer in his pocket, and the
Uppish House official leader got his walk-
over. Thus Collins House and Cliveden
Mansions scored again. Melbourne Club re-
joiced at the unopposed return of Clarke
(Minister of Lands), for the Northern, and
of his brother Russell, for the Southern
Province. Barring death, a revolution or
double dissolution, both are safe for another
six years in the Chamber of Deadly
Decorum.
From the Gallery :
The forthcoming session of the Federal Parliament
promises us a little excitement. Apart from the
threatened Tariff, the Shaw wireless and other con-
troversial issues, there is Jensen and there is Anstey.
Jensen is back again with his grotesque egotism
enlarged by brooding on his wrongs, and as he
has a tremendous capacity for anger, there will be
explosions and probably shell-shock in unexpected
quarters. Anstey will be just as entertaining after
his contact with the leading Socialists of Europe.
Added to these there are the “economists,” who
want to change the capital to Dryberra, and the
assorted geniuses who are oppressed by the know-
ledge that their absence from the Cabinet means
further calamity to Australia and the Empire.
Altogether the Government can expect as peaceful
a time as the under animal in a dog fight. Pro-
bably Watt and Co. would like to sneak into recess
after getting Supply; but unless William can invent
a good reason for delay, he won’t be found voting
for another siesta.
Queensland Railways Minister Fihelly,
just back from England and the U.S.,
reports that Australian lines are very good
by comparison and the charges are lower
than any others in the world, so far as he
saw the world. But why not go on and
tell the whole truth? In England a railway
lias to earn the full interest on its debenture
debts or be seized by its creditors. Also it
has to pay a railway passenger tax, which
runs as high as 5 ner cent, of the passenger
i receipts, and heavy local taxes as well, and
income-tax on its dividends, and a license
for its refreshment car. The Australian
State railways pay no taxes, and last year in
Fihelly’s State they got a subsidy from the
Treasury of about ss. in the £ on their tak-
ings. That is to say, they charged low
rates for a fairly good service so that Fihelly
might blow about his results, and they sur-
reptitiously made up the huge deficit out of
taxes.
Giving evidence before the English Coal
Commission, Wade, Agent-General for N. S.
Wales, opposed State ownership of mines.
As the cables reported him: “It en-
courage laziness amongst the miners.” Now,
State employment of Agent-Generals has
the exactly opposite effect. It makes them
toil so hard that they can hardly find time
to initial the wine bill.
The northern part of Queensland is the
home of Bolshevikery in Australia. Two years
ago the northern State-owned railway, the
artery of Townsville, Charters Towers,
Hughenden and Cloncurry, was held up by
a strike that lasted with occasional short
lucid intervals for about six months. Then
came the strike of meat employees in Towns-
ville. This ran for another four or five
months, paralysing the most important in-
dustry of North Queensland’s biggest centre.
The cancelling of preference to unionists
by Judge McCawley brought reason for
avyhile. But only for a while, for the Alli-
gator Creek meat men went out a few days
ago over a packers’ grievance, with the re-
sult of a promise of further limitless trouble.
The foreign element is so numerous and in-
fluential that the name may yet be changed
from Townsville to Bolshiegrad.
“Mr. Holman is one of the greatest fight-
ers that N. S. Wales ever produced,” said
Hoskins, M.L.A., to a party meeting in
Sydney. It is quite true; and N. S. Wales’s
ill-luck is that he fights so often for the
wrong thing. He and his colleagues—-the
Continuous Ministry which, has lasted since
1910 —have added as much to the State’s
interest bill as the whole 83 Governments
which went before. He is a great fighter,
but the charge by which he will be remem-
bered will be the one that the money-lenders
make.
If the Broken Hill miners are entitled
to little public sympathy, the cos. are en-
titled to less. They have been war profiteers
of a pretty bad kind. Not a soul should
have made money out of the war: the
Broken Hill cos. made a million. It wasn’t
their fault, of course, that lead nearly
trebled and zinc quadrupled in market
value; but it icas their fault that the bulk
of the excess value, less the increased
shipping and other charges, wasn’t taken by
the Commonwealth Government, as it should
have been. They gave what the law de-
manded ; but the law was made to suit them.
They have their gross, unpatriotic profits
in their pocket; and the people have the
taxation ahead of them.
Maoriland has a sudden way with pro-
Huns. Many of those who dodged the com-
pulsory service were imprisoned, and now
2500 of them, including a member of Par-
liament, have been disqualified as voters or
members for 10 years. Those who are away
won’t be allowed to return. It is different
in Australia. Here the pro-Huns sit in
high places and have billets in Ministries
and dictate policies and patronise the men
who fought for them as the old-time squire
patronised Hodge, the villager.
A proposal in the air is the establishment of
Labor schools, after the fashion of the present
denominational schools, to bring up the youth
of the country in One Big Union ideas. It
isn’t suggested that a State subsidy shall be
asked for to begin with. One text-book
which won’t be used is the history of New
Australia, the solitary One Big Union ex-
periment which this country has made —
New Australia, which began with a big land-
grant and exemption from taxes, and had
no capitalists and no bosses, and where
the value of the output got down to about
4s. per week per worker through too many
stop-work meetings.
“Solomon Malaprop”:—
The Prussian Premier, after considering the Peace
Treaty, said that “Germans would sooner be dead
than slaves.” Many other people would also prefer
them to be dead, so perhaps the matter can be
arranged. As a side issue an appeal for easy terms
has been issued on behalf of “German mothers” to
their “sisters” in France and elsewhere. But hun-
dreds and hundreds of these “sisters” saw their
young daughters rounded up in droves and carried
away to be the slaves and harlots of the sons of
German mothers. And because the German mothers
moved not a finger to help the victims and made no
protests, the ghosts of these sisters’ children are
dragging down the souls of their German aunts to
perdition.
THE BURDEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The German leaders declare that the Peace Pro-
posals load Germany with an intolerable burden.
Too heavj' is the burden. Bent
Almost with faces to the mold
For long the Hun must go, content
To earn what he may never hold.
Too great the task to him consigned.
His back so bent the weighted one
May not look up again to find
A place within the grateful sun.
Up all the hill and down the vale
His million mounds a Briton sees.
“You at your piled-up burden rail, ’
He coldly answers —“what of these?”
VICTORIA.
D.


THE ARBITER.


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
Registered
<BHAS>
Bra
Brand.
Producers of Lead in the following forms — .
Refined Lead, Corroding Lead, Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated),
Super-refined Lead, Chemical Lead.
Also of —
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated), Spelter,
and the following Alloys and Metallic Products
Antimonial Lead, Linotype Metal, Litharge (Industrial and Assay),
Bearing Metals, Leaded Zinc Pigments, Blue Powder.
Purchasers on a Specially Favorable Tariff of Silicious Silver-Lead Ores, Slags, etc.,
containing Silver and Lead. Lead Drosses, Zinc Drosses.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE —
H. L. SHACIvELL, Secretary.
LONDON OFFICE: PINNERS HALE. AUSTIN FRIARS, E.C. 2
A. -T. SMITH. LondoD Secretary.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY—
R. N. KIRK (Agent).
ADELAIDE OFFICE: 62 BROOKMAN’S BUILDING, ADELAIDE—
A. W. LEWIS (Agent).
SMELTING WORKS, PORT PIRIE, S.A.
COKE WORKS. BELLAMBI, N.S.W.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobet
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelati
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
STEEL CASTINGS.
We make the FINEST STEEL CASTINGS obtainable
ranging in weight from a Pound or so up to
SIX or EIGHT TONS; also MANGANESE STEEL
CASTINGS of best quality.
It will be to your interest to let us have your enquiries.
Chas. Ruwolt Pty. Ltd.,
Victoria Street, Richmond
Victoria.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Australian Provincial Assurance
Association, Ltd., doing life and acciden
business throughout the Commonwealth an
in Maoriland. It began in 1912 with a deficit
of £BO6O, representing preliminary exes. ±ne
last column in the following table does no-
take into account share capital, which at
Dec. 31, 1918, stood at £86,088
Oct., Income. Claims. Expenses. Deficit,
1913 .. .. ,C 10,219 £289 £18,213 £16,343
1914 .. .. 17,288 866 28,4i3 28,394
1915 .. 28,615 1,169 29,641 30,089
1910 .. .. 56,846 4,790 44,088 22,621
1917 .. .. 100,619 10,268 77,<<1 10,041
Dee. Reserves.
1918 . . . . 164,925 22,434 121,938 10,512
Gradually the A.P.A. has become move
respectable. Early in its career it aban-
doned house-purchase insurance; and later
lire business was also dropped altogether.
During the past year a subsidiary co. was
formed to carry the whole of the accident
business, so the A.P.A. balance-sheet now
shows the precise nosition of the life opera-
tions without any side-line entanglements.
Further, an actuary’s report was published
last year, and it cleared away many of the
doubts which the management should never
have allowed to exist. At October 31, 191 1,
the balance-sheet showed policyholders’ funds
amounting to £24,969, but as establishment
costs had run away with £35,010 (incluued
as an asset), there was a visible deficit of
£10,041 on the operations thus, far. Actu-
ary J. P. Doyle, assuming prospective inter-
est earnings at 4 p.c., calculated the liability
to policyholders at £42,297. Including
shareholders’ capital, the position of the
Association at Oct. 31, 1917, could be sum-
marised in this way :
Estimated liability to policyholders £42,297
Policyholders’ funds . . • • 24,969
Deficit . . . . . • • • £P , ;28
Shareholders’ paid capital .. ..£76,001
Less represented by intangible
assets (establishment a/c) . . 35,010
Less liabilities . . . . ■ • 5,402
Capital available to protect
holders . . . . • • 35,589
Tangible net assets in excess of estimated lia-
bility to policyholders .. .. •• £18,261
Thus, according to the actuary’s valuation,
policyholders were amnly protected by share-
holders’ funds. One point to be considered,
however, is the assumption that funds would
in future earn 4 p.c. xls a matter of fact,
total policyholders’ and shareholders’ funds
were not earning anything like 4 p.c. Still,
the management can claim with some justi-
fication that the large amount expended in
establishing the business represents so much
capital that is temporarily lost to share-
holders, and that on the effective funds to
protect policyholders something more than
4 p.c. is at present being earned. Never-
theless The Bulletin would be better satis-
fied if the valuation had been made on a
more conservative basis, say 3| p.c., which is
the maximum rate assumed by practically
all big offices.
One creditable feature of the latest
accounts is the management’s open methods.
It is now feeling so confident that it has in-
vited The Bulletin to come along with its
microscope, and has also made available a
balance-sheet of the subsidiary accident
office. To bring policyholders’ funds up to
the amount required by the actuarial investi-
gation, the deficiency of £17,32S was provided
out of capital. At least, funds were in-
creased and the establishment account writ-
ten up—quite a legitimate proceeding, as
shareholders have to stand the risk of the
establishment account being made good. The
last line of the table prefacing these remarks
covers a 14 months’ period, the balancing
date having been altered, and it combines, for
the sake of uniformity, accident and life
business. The accident business got in by
the two cos. was £33,454 of net premiums,
and deducting the whole of the accident
figures the life operations for the 14 months
worked out in this way : Income, £131,471;
claims, £6583 (7.3 p.c. of income, a wonder-
fully low rate) ; and expenses. £101,336
(over 77 per cent, of income). The revenue
account elves the expenses as £95,756, but
since a further £5580 has been added to the
establishment account, The Bulletin has
tacked the amount to current outgoings.
The very heavy expense rate is the weak
feature of the A.P.A.’s present operations.
Even overlooking the organisation exes,
charged direct to capital, on the co.’s own
showing 73 per cent, of income went in
chasing new policies and in managing old
business. That leaves only 27 p.c. to meet
claims and provide reserves against policy
liabilities, and meantime capital is being-
drained. The whole trouble, of course, is
the management’s hurricane pursuit after
new business ; but clearly the present furious
pace cannot be maintained much longer with
safety. For the period covered by the latest
accounts renewal premiums amounted to
£53,589 and premiums on new policies
£70,(378 ! What was the actual cost of get
ting the latest batch of 9212 policies assur-
ing £1,839,07(3 The Bulletin does not
know, but if 15 p.c. be assumed as a fair
charge on the renewal business, then the out-
lav to get £70.678 of new premiums was
£113,900, or 1(31 p.c., though the cost of
opening up in Maoriland and possibly other
non-recurring charges swell the figures. But
the expenses for the period mean that the
first year’s premium and about three-quar-
ters of the second year’s (allowing for re-
newal exes.) go down the sink. And the
above calculations make no allowances for
lapses, and they seem to be still heavy.
During its first quinquennium, through
deaths and lapses the Association lost one-
third of the total business it had written.
At October 31, 1917. there were 10,639
policies assuring £1,923,940, and yielding an
annual income of £80,376. Yet, though
claims have been light since, the renewal
premium income (less reinsurances) for the
past 14 months amounted to only £53,
The Bulletin understands that the
A.P.A.’s organisation is now practically
complete, and that the establishment account
will not swallow r any further funds. As IBs.
in the £ of capital is represented by this in-
tangible asset, shareholders probably won’t
be sorry if the plug is put in. The present
position of the office may be summarised
thus: It has now considerable business on
its books and a big organisation, but both
have been built up at heavy cost. From the
point of view of the policyholder the present
position looks quite safe, and the protecting
assets are good. Apart from the £57,917 of
capital in establishment account, no less than
£122,414 of the remaining assets of £133.20!
were in public securities, cash and sundry
debtors. But a day or two ago the
Association acquired its own freehold prem-
ises in Sydney at a cost of £38,000. The
management is certainly a live one, and
if the office can hold on to its present
business and doesn’t exceed the speed
limit in chasing new policyholders at exces-
sive cost, everything should eventually work
out all right. Anyhow, The Bulletin hopes
so: for it would be a pity to see such energy
as this co-operative c-o. has shown go for
nothing.
* * * *
Nicholson and Co., Ltd. (Sydney),
who sell instruments for making musical and
other noises, etc.: —
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Mar., ’l2. .17241 10 p.c.=£5675 £956 £6lO £26,474
Sent.,’l2.. 7773 Nil 7773 34.247
Mar., ’13.. 7302 74p.c.= 5117 ----- 2185 36,432
Sept.,’l3.. 8653 7J „ ~ 5259 3394 39,526
Mar., ’14.. 6365 74 „ „ 5248 1117 40,943
Sept.,’l4.. 5021 Nil 5021 45.964
Mar., ’15.. 5008 *6 p.c. = 8397 42,575
Sept.,’ls.. 3655 5 ~,, 3499 156 42,731
Mar., ’16.. 6014 7 „ „ 4898 1116 43,847
Sept.,’l6.. 5936 7 „ „ 4898 1038 44,885
Mar., ’17.. 8081 10 „ „ 6998 1083 45,968
Sept.,’l7.. 7968 10 „ „ 6998 970 46,938
Mar., ’lB.. 7741 10 „ „ 6998 743 47,681
Sept.,’lB.. 8037 10 „ „ 6998 1039 48.720
Mar., ’19.. 7970 10 „ „ 6998 972 49,692
*6 p.c. paid for the full jear.
Shareholders in this co. should consider
themselves extremely fortunate. Four years
ago they might reasonably have expected
that, since their dividends were derived
almost exclusively from t’he sale of what in
bad times are regarded as luxuries, a cold
period lay ahead. Instead, this comparison
of gross profits for the March half-years
shows how the concern has fared :
1914 .. £33,444 1917 , . £29,057
1915 .. 25,531 1918 .. 33,229
1916 .. 26,164 1919 .. 36,245
It is almost incredible that, during a war
which to the end of last year had cost Aus-
tralia nearly 223 millions, Nicholson’s has
been able to find customers almost as easily
as in pre-war days. But the explanation is
simple, and at the same time an indictment
of the Commonwealth’s politicians. While
our armies have been in the field, the stay-
at-homes have not been contributing any-
thing like a fair thing towards the main-
tenance of those armies. This shows how
Australia has met its war expenses:—
Charged
Year to against Met out
June, Expenditure. Revenue. of Loans.
1915 .. £15,111,335 £640,217 £14,471,118
1916 . . 41,201.946 3,778,378 37,423,568
1917 . . 61,541,566 8,427,329 53,114.237
1918 .. 66,742,350 11,856,235 54,886,115
Half-year
to Dec.,
1918 . . 38,282,683 4,488,749 33,793,934
So we had paid only 2s. 7d. in the £ of our
£222,879,880 war bill at December, 31 last.
Against the remaining 17s. sd. the Treasury
has issued paper—a promise to pay at some
later date. But even the revenue outlay
has not been against actual war costs, but
merely to meet interest and sinking-fund
contributions on war loans, pensions,
repatriation and maintenance charges in the
Defence Department.
Considerably more than half the war
spendings have been within the Common-
wealth. so while taxation, etc., have pro-
vided 2s. 7d. in the £ the public has been
given back something over 10s. in paper to
play with. Instead of having to look for
purchasers in a community oppressed by
war, Nicholson’s and other traders have
thus had customers on their books who never
previously dreamed of such prosperity as
they have been experiencing. Nicholson’s
does a big t.p. business, and an amount ex-
ceeding its paid capital is out in this item.
This shows how the balance-sheet figures
have moved over the war years:—
Liabilities.
March, March, March,
1914. 1918. 1919.
Overdrafts and mortgage . . £40,277 £64,624 £42,427
Sundry creditors . . . . 18,676 22,534 51,352
Assets.
Sundry debtors .. .. 185,004 139,843 153,974
Stock 60,525 102,778 95,717
Freeholds . . . . . . —• 33,590 33,340
Plant, etc. .. .. .. 5,835 5.075 7,397
Cash and sundries .. . . 813 1,282 773
Dividends over the five years have averaged
a shade over 8 p.c. p.a., but the margin be-
tween profits and distributions to share-
holders has not been wide, and only £8749
has been tacked on to reserves since 1914.
So it would not take much to disturb the
present 10 p.c. dividend rate. As to the
co.’s prospects, one thing is very clear:
recent abnormal conditions cannot continue.
The 17s. sd. in the £ of our war expenditure
which we have not paid has to be met, and
to find the interest on over 200 millions of
war loans, apart altogether from repayment,
will put a strain on the taxpayer. After
the effects of the forthcoming War Loan
have worked off, The Bulletin will be sur-
prised if there will be anything like the
same demand for pianos and other luxuries.
* * * *
The City and Suburban Building
Society (Brisbane).
Added
Dividends and Written to Re- Re-
Feb., Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
1909.. £4552 4 p.c. =£3173 £421 £958 £6,611
1910.. 5068 U„ „ 3376 1280 412 7,023
1911.. 5329 4j „„, 3801 347 1181 8,204
1912.. 5792 5 ~ „ 4023 517 H 252 9,456
1913.. 6362 5 „ „ 4021 1208 1133 10,589
1914.. 6458 6 ,„ ~ 4767 1691 12,280
1915.. 6330 5 „„ 3791 4- 2539 14,819
1916.. 6008 6 „ „ 4503 1505 16,324
1917.. 6165 6 „„ 4506 1859 17,983
1918.. 6199 6 ~ „ 4512 . 1687 19,670
1919.. 5976 6 „ „ 4506 - 1470 21,140
The falling off in net profits is due to- in-
creased taxation, for though the society’s
operations were restricted during the war
period, the surplus after meeting interest on
deposits is now slightly larger than it was
five years ago:—
1914 1919.
Gross income .. .. .. £13,073 £12,987
Interest to depositors, etc. .. 4,408 4,284
Surplus .. .. £8,665 £8,703
Management exes, have not increased, but
income taxes are now taking £675 compared
with £253 in 1914. The slightly increased
net earnings on a smaller turnover are appa-
rently not due to increased interest rates to
any extent. The management now has
£7S6O more stored-up profit to ulay with than
five years ago; so results are actually poorer
than a first glance at the figures indicates.
The directors have been proceeding cautiously
in the matter of new advances during the
past few years, but that policy was probably
partly dictated by the necessity for nursing
depositors. At the end of February last the
society held £80,720 of deposits—£7s9l less
than a year ago, and £24,000 less than in
1914. Since the Commonwealth Government
restricted interest rates on deposits, building
and other cos. have been unable to attract
investors, though owing to an uncertain
future the cos. were probably not anxious
to get in much ne.w money. Meantime, a
number of depositors have been withdrawing
their money as it became available and have
been investing it in War Loan and other
more payable lines. Later on, when the re-
strictions no longer operate and the cos. want
to launch out again, they will have to give
more for the use of other people’s money, and
there will probably be a further squeeze on
the borrower. And that, combined with re-
newed comnetition from the State savings
banks, is likely to make the path of the
building society more difficult. However,
the Brisbane City and Suburban is a sound
little business, though it is not likely to make
ifs_ shareholders fat. Capital is now
£75.670. and apart from the deposits
(£80.720) it owes only £2797. There is
£162.196 out in advances (compared with
£172.150 five years ago), and the balance-
sheet makes no mention of foreclosures or
any other dead stuff. Freehold premises
have a book value of £7OOO. and there is
£13;651 in investments, cash. etc. Creditors
are thus very well protected : there are net
assets of £lBO,OBO to meet £80,720 of deposits.
N.Z. Consolidated Dental Co. (Wel-
lington, M.L.) :
Bonus on Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends. Purchases, serves.
1900.. 7lp.c.= £1475 £255 £13,616
Reserves transferred to capital, £9756 3,560
1910.. 1921 6 p.c. = 1766 230 3,785
1911.. 3912 6 „ „ 1766 251 5,680
1912.. 2524 7 „ „ 2060 253 5,891
1913.. 2506 7 ~ „ 2060 222 6.115
1914.. 2456 7 ~ „ 2060 230 0,281
1915.. 3198 7 „ „ 2060 405 7.014
1916.. 3652 7 „ ~ 2060 374 8,262
1917.. 3774 8 „ „ 2354 707 8,975
1918.. 3741 8 „ „ £.854 669 9,693
1919.. 2968 8 ~ ~ 2354 634 9,673
The directors offer no explanation of the
drop of £BOO in net profits: they merely
express regrets and say that, “all things taken
into consideration, the result must be con-
sidered eminently satisfactory.” Neverthe-
less, profits were insufficient to meet the 8
p.c. div. and the 5 p.c. bonus on purchases.
Incidentally, the report now indicates that
there are “net items” on which no bonuses
are paid ; and either these net items consti-
tute a large proportion of the sales, or most
of the co.’s business is with jawsmiths who
are not shareholders. Bonuses amounting
to £634 on a 5 p.c. basis represent a turn-
over of £12.680, and gross profits last year
amounted to £12,709, Since the war skied
prices the co. has been doing very well, but
it now finds that the Maoriland Treasurer’s
extractions are not so painless as they used
to be. Up to 1014 only 1£ p.c. was paid
as a bonus on purchases, then for two years
it was increased to 21 p.c., but lately share-
holding purchasers have been getting 5 p.c.
On present appearances it seems doubtful if
both the increased div. and the increased
bonus rates can be maintained. The man-
agement is apparently not much concerned
about piling up reserves, and, as the table
shows, only £5813 has been accumulated in
10 years. But it is in a snug position :it
oives only £2664 and has £24.255 in invest-
ments, deposits, book debts and cash, £10.201
in stock and £4300 in premises, etc. The
book value of the stock is considerably lower
than it has been for many years, which may
be due to the difficultv of securing supplies,
or to the management awaiting more reason-
able prices before filling the shelves,
* * * *
Broken Hill Junction North Silver
Mining Co., from the time it ivas re-formed
and became the Junction North Broken Hill
Mines: —
Gross Written -
Profit. Dividend. Off. Reserves.
Sept., 1913. . £22,114 Nil £6,338 £21,678
Mar., 1914.. 6,121 Nil 3,578 24,221
Sept., 1914.. 7,633 Nil 3,839 28,015
Loss.
Mar., 1915.. 18,120 Nil 9,895
Sept., 1915.. 7,602 Nil 2,293
Deficit.
Mar., 1916.. 8,974 Nil 7,117 13,70 S
Profit.
Sept., 1916.. 696 Nil 3,865 16,967
Mar., 1917.. 28,381 Nil 20,050 5,636
Reserves.
Sept., 1917.. 19,729 Nil 6,889 4,204
Mar., 1918.. 38.497 £lB,OOO 4,328 20,373
Sept., 1918.. 27,840 24,666 7,850 15,697
Mar., 1919.. 17,700 21,902 2,625 8,870
The most satisfactory feature of the accounts
is that they show £152,487 of liquid and
fairly-liquid. assets in excess of liabilities:
and that means a shade over 14s. per share.
Included with these assets is £9860 due by
German firms on final settlements under con-
tracts ; and probably the directors would
knock off the odd £lO for prompt cash. The
Junction North mine isn’t worth very much :
there probably isn’t more than enough ore
exposed to feed the mill for three years; and
there are smaller chances of breaking into
new bodies than in almost any other Broken
Hill mine. Knowing that the days of the
Junction North were numbered, the co. was
led by then general-manager Palmer into
large purchases of slime, at a time when
that material ivas in bad repute at the
Broken Hill mills. Most of this stuff has
been used up now; slime purchased but still
untreated stood in the books (cost price) at
£23,026 on March 31. That represents
about two years’ work if it is drawn upon at
the recent rate. But it doesn’t make high-
class concentrates, and with a poor market
there will be some difficulty in placing it on
satisfactory terms. For the rest the co. has
secured three old-time mines, the Pinnacles,
the Mayflower and the Allandale. Cartage
to the mill is the trouble with all of them.
The Pinnacles is the most promising—it has,
in fact, been promising for the past 30 years.
A good deal of borinv has been done there by
the present cp., and the directors say it has
“disclosed a considerable extension of the
ore bodies there and assays show that the
values remained unchanged.” The assay plan
doesn’t, however, show much to enthuse
about. Easily the best of 14 bores passed
through Ift. worth 21 p.c. lead, 20.30 z. silver
and 0.6 p.c. zinc and 7ft. worth 20.3 p.c.
lead, 19oz. silver and 1.4 p.c. zinc. That was
at 265 ft. Most of the bore assays show


Wolfram, Schedite
and Molybdenite.
PRICES AT PRODUCING CENTRES:
MOLYBDENITE:
85 per cent, or over, 100/- for each
unit MOS 2.
WOLFRAM AND SCHEELITE.
65 per cent, or over, 52/6 for each
unit WO3.
Enquiries Invited relative to
LOWER GRADES of the above
Minerals.
DALGETY 8 CO. LTD.,
Commonwealth Government Agents.
THE MUTUAL LIFE
and CITIZENS’
ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
HAS AN
EMPLOYERS*
INDEMNITY POLICY
that meets exactly your requirements.
Under Emp oyers’ Liability and Workmen's
Compensation Acts.
Before ordering your welding equipment investi-
gate the General Electric Company’s novel welding
system. Some of its points of superiority are, (.ij
Constant energy ; (2) High efficiency; (3) No resist-
ance in series with arc. By the use of this equip-
ment good operators are producing consistently per-
fect welds. Further particulars can be obtained
from us. Australian General Electric Company,
Wentworth Avenue, Sydney ; and corner of Queen
and Little Collins Streets, Melbourne. — Advt.
Water is a valuable asset in summer for drinking,
concentrating or boiler purposes. Why not use
Aluminoferric, and have it clear and crystalline?
Aluminoferric is thrown into the water as a solid
or added as a liquid. One pound clarifies from two
to three thousand gallons of most turbid water with-
in three hours. Write for full facts to William
Adams & Co., Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Melbourne: 521-3 Collins Street. Adelaide: 96 Currie
Street. Brisbane: Corner Edward and Mary Streets.
Perth: 33 King Street. — Advt. [1
Modern methods of metal concentration require
fine and efficient grinding devices, and the tube mill
is becoming more widely used every day. Present
conditions prohibit the importation of machinery
from abroad, so that we have to fall back on our
home manufactures. The Austral Otis Engineering
Co. of Melbourne manufacture tube mills of any size,
as well as grinding machines of every description.
They are also makers of the famous llardinge Conical
Mills, which have made a name for themselves in
America. — Advt. [1
Pioneer Wood S*ave Pipe.—A Record Delivery!
An order for 24 miles of Bin. Pioneer Wood
Stave Pipe from the N. S. Wales Government
Railways and Tramways was recently completed
in a period of eight days. The above
pipes were required urgently to convey water to
the township of Goulburn, where the reservoir was
nearly depleted. We are prepared to supply large
quantities of Wood Stave Pipe at short notice. Send
for illustrated Catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe
Co. Ltd. (Head Office), Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove,
N.S.W. P.O. Address: Box 1576 G.P.0., Sydney.
Contractors to all State Governments. — Advt.
* * * *
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & I-lassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink’s Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723. — Advt.
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Griimvade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne. — Advt.
» * * »
Build “Leplastrier” long-lasting, modern machin-
ery-made roads. Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Head
Office, Sydney.— Advt.
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. ConusoN & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * • •
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. 11. B. Selby * Co.,
Ltd., 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street, Melb.— Advt.
* * * .
T. H. Palmer, 8.E., Fel. Chem. Soe., etc., consult-
ing engineer, valuing, organising, technical advice,
mining, metallurgy, flotation and selective flotation
processes, Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 Pitt
Street, Sydney, Cables and Telegrams: “Remlap,
Melbou rn e. ’ ’ —Advt.
* * * *
The Sydney Export Co., 684 Pitt Street, Sydney,
has a specially-designed plant for the treatment of
complex ores. Separation of wolfram, tin, copper,
molybdenite and bismuth a specialty. Highest price
given, prompt cash settlement.— Advt.
vi are Born to
IF£UBCNUUt
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Loss of Profits
Insure in
1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital .. £250,000
Subscribed Capital .. 194,235
Paid-up Capital .. 96,497
income (Cross) 1918 .. 457,852
ACENTS WANTED,
Established 1910.
Branches in every State
Write for particulars.
VV. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
When making a Will or Settlement
appoint The
Union Trustee
Company of Australia Ltd.
Your EXECUTOR or TRUSTEE.
The only Trustee Company with branches
in more than one State.
NEW SOUTH WALES. VICTORIA.
QUEENSLAND.
Sydney Office, 48 Young Street.
Directors: Hon. Sir Charles Iv. Mackellar,
K.C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman) ; Hon. James
Ashton, M.L.C.; Hon. H. Y. Braddon,
M.L.C.; F. B. S. Falkiner, M.H.R., James
Kidd ; W. H. Mackay, R. M. Pitt, and
. Duncan Sinclair.
V. G. Watson, J. Mair,
Assistant Manager. Manager.
A. Victor Leggo & Co.
Melbourne—Sydney— Brisbane.
Manufacturers Metallurgists Merchants.
Exporters and Importers.
Specialties: INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS, INDUSTRIAL MINERALS,
ORES, METALS AND RAW MATERIALS.
Maunfacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Other Goods.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
values much too low to be profitable. The
other properties may turn out a few tons of
ore; but it would be a trustful Board that
would put any dependence upon them.
“Exile”: Up to .1914 the United States
had more than it could do to supply the
local demand for manufactured goods. With
the astonishing increase in their factories and
output the Americans have to face the pro-
blem of how to empty their congested ware-
houses. So foreign trade in their own ships
is the slogan of to-day. Ships and goods
and mercantile houses need banks in foreign
countries; so there has come about a power-
ful combination of 15 leading banks and
trust cos. to work as the Foreign Bond and
Share Corporation, with a capital of
£2,000,000 for a start. The president is Mr.
Fleishhacker, and branches are to be opened
in South America, Japan, China and Aus-
tralasia. Backed by these banks, American
traders have a chance of annexing all the
former German trade and much of the old
British commerce. In the interests of the
Commonwealth Bank and the Australian
joint-stock banks, this trust should be
kept out, just as any Australian bank would
be kept out of U.S.A. Australia is under
no obligation to America, and our bankers
and manufacturers are entitled to all the
protection the Federal Parliament can
afford. Altruism is never known in finance,
anyhow or anywhere. We want to open more
Australian industries, not close them
through foreign competition. The Canadian
Bank of Commerce, which does a large busi-
ness in California (U.S.A.), recently sent
representatives to spy out the land in Aus-
tralia, and a bill to prohibit foreign banks
is an urgency.
* * * *
About nine months ago Paper Pulp, Ltd.,
was floated in Sydney to manufacture paper
pulp from blady grass and otherwise useless
weeds of Bananaland. The co. got busy
right away and, havine erected a plant worth
£5OOO on its own freehold near Cairns,
started production recently. The Cumber-
land Paper Mills are taking the whole output
of nulp, paying £2 per ton more than the
prospectus anticipations. Costs have also
been well under estimates, while the schedule
output has been realised.
The silver-lead cos. have experienced some
violent fluctuations in the value of their
products during the past few r years. Before
the war lead climbed from £l7 10 s.
per ton in 1912 to * £2O 2s. in 1914.
During 1918 as much as £4l per ton was
paid. After the armistice came a collapse,
and £24 ss. is the latest quotation. Some
of the 8.11. cos. used to value their stocks
at £25 per ton, but, in the case of Block 14
at least, stocks are now included at £22,
which is still more than twice as much as it
got during one part of its life. Meantime
the price of silver has continued to soar. At
latest it is over 4s. lOd. per oz. London —
the highest for more than 40 years. Back
in 1871 it got just over the ss. mark, but
the value had receded to an average of a
penny or two over 2s. during the early part
of this century, while in the early dull days
of the war it actually got as low as
Is. lOid.
* * * *
The Commonwealth’s ill-fated shale-oil
industry was eiven another kick the other
day when the union demanded wage in-
creases which to the people running the
Commonwealth Oil Corporation’s properties
meant another £250 per week. These
demands granted there were two alternatives
to closing down ; increasing contract prices
by 2d. per gallon, or a lift in the Govern-
ment bonus on crude oil. The Watt Gov-
ernment took the easy way and has author-
ised an increase of 2d. per gal. in contract
prices. What is going to happen when pre-
sent contracts run out and the local product
cannot compete with less costly imported
oil The Bulletin does not know. More than
likely the shale workers will find a drought
in the wages-slieets along the Wolgan Val-
ley.
Govt. Geologist Carne is reported to be
rather favorably impressed with the Ard-
lethan tin-field (N.S.W.), and his advice to
handle tin-bearing material on a larger scale
should be taken to heart by the cos. con-
cerned. Carpathia has paid dividends total-
ling £40,800 by chasing rich shoots, and
reports about isolated lenses of rich ore have
been effective in causing periodical booms.
Carne reports that a winze is down 80ft.
below the 200 ft. level, and is still showing
good prospects—an output of 233 tons aver-
aging 27 p.c. tin. This oroves one little
section of the mine rich, but it doesn’t take
an enormous ore body to produce that small
quantity. Nor can the Carpathia be con-
gratulated on its last output of 81 tons of
concentrates in six months.
* * * *
The Ula Yam is the latest Austral-Malay
float—in 100,000 shares of £1 each, the
vendor concern pocketing £7500 in cash and
25,000 paids, 50.000 going to the public and
the remainder being held in reserve. Followers
of the Freeman stable felt so confident about
the possibilities of this Selangor (F.M.S.)
property of <3OO acres that they promptly
oversubscribed the issue. Ruwolt’s, of Mel-
bourne, already have a dredge under con-
struction, which is to be capable of 900,000
cub. yds. per annum. John Chinaman ex-
tracted sweet pickings from a small portion
of the co.’s holding in the long ago, but A.
W. Freeman counts on at least 400 acres of
profitable ground. Evidence provided by 250
bores leads him to give the average depth as
21ft., contents 134 million yds., and the
value at .7<Jlb. tin oxide per yd. A low-
grade proposition, of course; but there is
plenty of tin to work on. and if costs can be
kept reasonably low good profits should be
forthcoming. With the dredge fully ex-
tended all the time there is at least 15 years’
work ahead. Freeman apparently hopes to
get costs 4d. per yd. under Kampong Kamun-
ting’s present war-swollen figures, and on
an SO, 000yds. per month output, and with
tin at about £2OO London, he looks for over
£20.000 of profit per annum, which would
give shareholders at least 20 p.c. p.a. after
providing for depreciation and return of
capital.
* * # *
The latest man to take on the Riverina
South (W.A.) is Civiall Hawkins, H. G.
Walton having dropped out. Hawkins’s job
is to shove ahead with the work, suggested by
Hector Stewart, of rushing on the drive
north at No. 3 level (north shaft) to try if
any of the shoots out of which the Riverina
holders did well will bring in a few copper s.
The available stone was round No. 5 at
the main shaft, but it was not sufficient to
make the show self-supporting. Hence the
rush to the Riverina lease. Hawkins puts
things bluntly when he says that, although
trouble with the power plant has been a
serious drawoack, the grievous want is re-
serves, due to insufficient development. This
means that the co. is at a dead-end till mo-re
stone is got. Clearly it will have to be
forthcoming out of the Ferminger or the
Riverina shoots. So the claims are back at
the stage at which Turner and Dyason took
them up, save that they carry a blister in
the form of a debenture issue of £6600.
Weary shareholders have let i 6,000 shares
go back to the co.. leaving the holders of
50,000 shares to nurse the baby.
* * » *
In order to save its life Edna May Cen-
tral, Westonia (W.A,), suggested that Edna
May should mine ore below 321 ft. in Cen-
tral ground, near the boundary of the two
shows, in return for assisting Central to
deal with the water problem. Edna May
turned down the proposal. Doubtless it
desires to retain a free hand to flood its
neighbors when it feels inclined. When
Edna May is finished with mining opera-
tions at Westonia it will hold, on account,
of its numerous pumping plants, a very
strong hand in connection with the water
question.
Recently Edna May Deep Levels (W.A.)
has been making heavy capital outlays, due
to sinking the main underlie shaft to 766 ft.,
providing a second opening from the work-
ings to the surface as required by the Mines
Department, and also making necessary im-
provements to surface equipment. No
extravagance is suggested, the works men-
tioned being necessary; but the cost is
proving large. However, much is promised
(and the co. has been prolific in promises
if nothing else) when the 766 ft. level is
thoroughly opened up. As a matter of fact,
the mine cannot reasonably be expected to
ever do much better than it did during the
coui-se of the opening up of the 566 ft. level
during the good days of 1917. The lode at
766 ft. is looking no bqtter than at the 566 ft.,
and generally as depth increases the out-
look for shareholders does not improve. And
with all the good things that were said of
the 566 ft. level what was the actual result?
The co. sold 10,000 reserve shares and paid
dividends of 6d. per share. From share-
holders’ point of view this represents its
total performances to date.
* * « *
Some of Westralia’s deserted goldfields
have still a chance. At Goongarrie, alias
the Ninety-Mile, during April £1630 was ex-
tracted from a dish of specimens. In the
last 12 months £2145 has been dollied out
of the same show, and there is, The Bul-
letin understands, some more gold to be
taken out. That won so far has come from
three small potholes. Another lot of gold
worth between four and five thousand
pounds was dug out of an old lease at
Kanowna the other day. making a total yield
since Dec. last of nearly £lO,OOO.
* ' * * *
A deluge of water has drowned the Sand
Queen, at Comet Vale (W.A.), and all
hands have been paid off. Eleven years ago
the show was bought by Frank Moss, then
boss of the Ivalgurli, and turned over to a
small co. in which Moss and his brothers held
most of the shares. Since , then about half
a million sterling has been dug out of the
property, ana about a fourth of that amount
has been paid in dividends. Without the
Sand Queen, Comet Yale will be merely a
memory.
* * * *
There was much plain talk at the half-
yearly meeting of Nuggetty Ajax (Vic.), and
one Giffney probed from the manager’s house
to the Board-room. As a result there is
talk of injunctions and other processes, but
for what? Ballarat has had the co. in its
hands ever since the mine opened, and it
won’t let go easily. If law is to be resorted
to, the directors may fight with the co.’s
funds, as they are entitled to; but what will
a win mean, save costs everywhere and no
one a scrap the better off? The plain fact
is that by dint of hard scraping the co. won
a little half-ounce stone last half, but had to
gpt in calls to keep the ledger square. Now
that sanguine soul, Bill Gullock, has to
admit that in the face of all the prospecting
work done no new bodies of stone have been
found to be profitable. Hence the tears.
* * * *
Thus manager Gilbert, of the Glen-
garry, Clonbinane (Vic.) : “The prospects
in this level have been irregular, the best
being in bottom of level, where the
lode averages 30in. and shows payable
gold.” Nevertheless the Board says: “The
values showed good payable average for the
full length of the 100 ft. level, with encourag-
ing increases in size and value going under-
foot.” Overhead the reef did a roll, and the
battery got through only ISI tons before it
had to be hung up. Still, if the stone is
payable for 300 ft. underfoot and the reef is
widening, the Glengarry won’t be the blue
duck it looks from 100 ft. upwards.
* # # #
Melbourne, if it finally agrees to the pro-
posal to surrender a big wad of its holding
in Coal, Ltd., will do so with a glum face.
The call is made because the Federal screw
was applied to squeeze water out of the co.’s
first float. This gave 105,000 paids to the
originals, and the Treasury officials got to
work so solidly that this block is to be
reduced to 55,000 shares. However, as
the Board’s promise is that the acquisition
of the Mt. St. Vincent property and “the re-
arrangement of interests will put the co. in
a sound financial position and enable the
Board to place the mine on a paying basis,"
the leek has been swallowed by Melbourne.
* * * *
Round Hill (Tas.) directors fly to capitals
to talk of the past year’s good developments
and the “large and rich” lode struck at
300 ft. But level-headed manager John Craze
refuses to become excited. A year back he
had his eye on an immense quartz outcrop
to the south-west of the main workings, and
since all previous scratching had unearthed
only small patches of ore here and there, he
decided to give -chase under ground to the
outcrop formation to discover if it might
not be the main lode channel. After some
very hard driving he cut the formation and
found it to be a dud. Abandoning this dis-
appointment he set out to discover what lay
underneath a surface iron-stained schist for-
mation to the north-east. After crosscutting
60ft. he hit upon a “very valuable” lode for-
mation, 16ft. wide and with veins and
stringers of galena throughout. A parcel of
hand-picked stone sent to Cockle Creek
showed 10.5dwt. gold. 4930 z. silver and 64.8
p.c. lead to the ton. Craze won’t commit him-
self as to the mine’s prospects, but he does
say that. “nothing previously discovered has
shown similar appearance of permanence.”
So he now reckons that after three years of
purely exploratory work he has got into the
developmental stage. Partly because oper-
ations were mostly confined to the new lode
during the latter portion of the past term,
and chiefly on account of the patchy nature
of ore handled in other parts of the mine,
the output w T as below that of the previous
year. Only 6404 tons were raised, apart
from the hand-picked prills, giving 526 tons
concentrates averaging 2dwt. gold, 54.90 z.
silver and 46.3 p.c. lead. Sales of concen-
trates brought in £7407, but there was a
loss on working account of £179. The co.
owes £1941 and has £3229 in liquid assets.
Paid capital is £24,796 —100,000 shares of
55., with £204 of calls unpaid.
* * * *
South Aus. Oil Wells, having used up
its first five shillings, has raised the calling
power from ss. to 10s. per share. H.
Charlton Dod, the man in charge, has had
trouble for months past with spurts of sand
jambing the drills in the drill-holes. That
more cash was available seems to have
changed his luck, for he now reports things
going smoothly and the drill in shale and
brown coal. Thus the same strata that was
met with in the first bore seems to be con-
tinuing down to Tantanoola. It is in the
coal horizon that Dod hopes to strike oil, so
get ready to dodge the gush !
* * * *
“G.D.M.”: Twelve hundred oil cos. were
registered in Texas (U.S.A.) during the
three months ending March 31, with an
average capital of £BOOO each, or a total of
£9.t<uu,ooo. The Ranger field is producing
70,000 barrels of oil daily, and boring has
just been started. Petroleum is found at
a depth of from 500 to 1200 feet, and the
drilling is cheap. At present there is no
limit to the field, and experts believe it will
extend right through Texas to Mexico.
Thousands of farmers have become rich over-
night, and houses and chapels have been re-
moved in order to drill wells. Many towns
have given place to forests of derricks, and
the buildings removed to less valuable pro-
perty.


AH E*- Kf
fancy c. -lo
be handed o\Jef lio
Hughes
Mil eCary
Service. 1o
abolished , and ev/ery»
body 'to join "tWe.
Police Porce . Xn
a. nsxtlon qj John H©|s>s
M.rTuc mo&l prosber:
Australia, io j/
"tVie lri'nc.&-
\><xrC
iV| dl em rl^ty, iSr
l5 ba tti e
, , Atrousarv;
!
t J, \
4t>> u
.’*>“«*««
v,.
T e^.
<Vv
e*fra heavy
hax ho b-e
placed on uj?turnedl rno s .
FURTHER PEACE TERMS.


35 7b
A
REED
Jfie Ideal Beer for the Home
ABBOTS
LAGER-
Browed from Pure Malt and Hops .
TAKE NO OTHER.
THE DEAF HEAR!
The Joy and Happiness
of perfect hearing are
only appreciated by
those who have lost it.
The
Mears Earphone
makes it yours. The
Latest Model 96-Tone
Mears Earphone
In the hollow of the
hand or attached to
ear with light head
band.
with its great range of
tone and power, can be regulated by a touch
of the finger to suit the hearing for every
occasion, and for all stages of deafness.
The MEARS EARPHONE catches and inten-
sifies even the least whisper, and enables the
deaf to hear lectures, sermons and plays clear-
ly and distinctly. Small, compact, and incon-
spicuous. The MEARS EARPHONE is
recommended by leading Aurists, and many
prominent Australian citizens have had the
Mears Earphone in daily use for Seven
Years, with continued satisfaction.
A Lengthy Guarantee with each instrument
FREE TRIAL I
Cal! and test it, or write for booklet post free.
The Mears Earphone Co., Bernard’s Bldgs.,
Tel. 3916 City. 387 George Street, Sydney.
THE
Hotel Sydney
(SYDNEY)
Is one of the largest, most modern
and best equipped in Australia.
It is situated opposite the Railway Station
and is central to everywhere.
ACCOMMODATION FOB 400 GUESTS.
Quiet, Cool and Comfortable.
Hot and Cold Water, Day and Night, in every
Bedroom.
Half an acre of Glorious Roof
Garden.
Tariff from 12/6 per day.
Have you Lunched or Dined at the “Sydney ’ ?
Management E. T. CHEESEMAN.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
June birthdays: Justice Hood (Vic.), 73,
on Ist; W. O. Archibald, M.11.R. (S. Aus.),
69, and pastoralist C. J. Booker (Q.), 54,
on 3rd; Speck’s ex-Premier Propsting, 58.
and medico-knight David Hardie (Q.), 63.
on 4th; Mrs. Jeannie Gunn (“We of the
Never Never”), on stli; Brig.-Gen. Glas-
gow, 43, on 6th; J. J. Knight (Brisbane
Courier), 56, and Prof. G. A. Wood (Syd.
Uni.), 54, on 7th; Bishop Dunne (Bathurst),
74, on Bth ; ex-Agent-General T. A. Coghlan
63, and Bishop .White (Carpentaria), 60, on
9th; Thos. Burgoyne (ex-S. Aus. legisla-
tor), 92, on 10th; ex-Premier Alec Pea-
cock (Vic.), 58, and Mrs. Humphry Ward
(born at Hobart). 68, on 11th; Judge Her-
bert (Papua), 59, and Senate President
Givens, 55, on 12th; Statist G. 11. Knibbs,
61, on 13tli; Henry Lawson, 52, and Bishop
Maxwell-Gumldeton (Ballarat), 47, on
17th; 11. W. Best, M.11.R. (Asc.), 63, and
Education-Director Tate (Vic.), 56, on
18th; Brig.-Gen. Elliott, 41, on 19th; ex-
plorer David Lindsay, 63, Prof. Anderson
Stuart, 63, Justice Denniston (M.L.), 74,
and J. M. Fowler, M.11.R. (W.A.), 54, on
20th; Griffith, C.J., 74, on 21st; Col.
W. A. Coxen, 49, on 22nd ; T. Geo. Ellery
(Melb. Town Clerk), 47, on 23rd; Chief Sec.
Bice (S. Aus.), 66, on 24th; Major-Gen.
Monash, 54, on 27th ; Speck’s Senator Keat-
ing, 47, on 28th; Gen. E. A. Wisdom, 50,
and Colonel Geo. H. Dean (S. Aus.), 60,
on 29th.
Father O’Reilly, the head of St. John’s,
Sydney, writes verse sometimes—he found
it a great relief while he ruled at Bathurst—
and lately he decided to make a collection
between covers. He told his friend Arch-
bishop Mannix about the intention, and men-
tioned that the little volume would appear
in London. “Why not in Australia?” asked
Mannix chidingly. “Well,” said O’Reilly,
excusing himself, “ye see, the publisher is a
friend of mine.” “Then he’ll not publish
your verses,” the reply winked back in a
flash.
Admiral Jellicoe is a fair speaker, with
plenty to say that holds the attention. A
JELLICOE.
kind of watchful
geniality is his atti-
tude when off duty.
In appearance he is
not in the least the
born fighter of popu-
lar expectation. Met
in a crowd, he would
probably pass for a
brisk little comedian.
Gregan McMahon
could make up for
his character with
ease. But, then,
Nelson himself didn’t
look in the least
formidable in pri-
vate life.
A 56-year-old re-
turned soldier of
Bunbury (W.A.),
“Cock” Donovan,
with his wife and
a few of the younger
members of the
family, went up to
Perth recently to
welcome his son,
“Pouch” Donovan,
D.C.M., M.M. Two
other sons who have
had 4\ years in the
firing-line are now
ready to embark
for home. The only member of the family
who has shown any signs of funking
was the D.C.M., M.M., when he was threat-
ened with a public reception.
When Jellicoe arrived at Port Lincoln
(one of S. Australia’s oldest settled dis-
tricts —Matthew Flinders landed there in
1802) he and Lady Jellicoe were a bit
startled by part of the welcome they re-
ceived. Black Fanny, the last of the Frank-
lin Harbor tribe and a well-known local
identity-—she is said to be the widow of the
last West Coast aboriginal king—was well
to the fore when the Admiral stepped on to
the jetty. Decked in red, white and blue,
and carrying a Union Jack, she affection-
ately tapped him on both cheeks and made
a speech in her own language. Gold braid
did not embarrass Fanny, and she retained
her front position throughout the proceedings,
vigorously applauding at intervals, whether
there was any call for it or not.
A Royal Commission of inquiry into the
coal industry is sitting in Sydney, and most
of its work so far has consisted of receiving
vast compilations from colliery owners, coal
merchants, shipping companies and other
outfits Showing how much business they do
and the costs and other details of their
trade. Joe Browne, the Equity barrister,
who is the chief purvevor of the arithmetic,
tenders daily masses with remarks appro-
priate to “these fresh fig-ewe-ers.” Com-
missioner James Campbell, K.C., always
refers to “fig-ahs.” Adrian Knox, K.C.,
slipping the first syllable and letting the
TENNYSON SMITH.
second rumble, perpetrates “fig-uhrrrs.” To
Shand, K.C., plain figgers seems good enough.
A colloquy in which Browne’s fig-ewe-ers
are objected to by Knox on the ground that
such fig-uhrrrs are misleading can generally
be depended upon to end with Shand inter-
posing with some other figgers and the Com-
mission undertaking to carefully examine all
the fig-ahs during the adjournment.
Paul Freeman arrived back in Sydney-
last week from San Francisco, having for
the second time been refused a landing in
America; and, as the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment won’t let him land in Australia,
“the man without a country” threatened to
become the oldest inhabitant of the Sonoma’s
steerage section. And the Sonoma, though
it works him in the pantry, wanted him less
even than Australia or the U.S.A., because
the crew isn’t improved from the owners’
point of view by coming in contact with
him. The military authorities pushed him
out of Australia, in the first place, for mak-
ing a wild speech at Cloncurry (N.Q.). He
said he was an American citizen, so they
sent him to San Francisco. His own Yankee
yam is that “I am simply the victim of a
plot of the mine-owners, who schemed to get
me out of the country and thus make it easy
to secure possession of my own rich mine-
holdings.” However, he told the S. F.
Chronicle it would be all right this time—
the 250,000 members of the A.W.U. had re-
solved to strike if he wasn’t allowed to land
on the arrival of the Sonoma in Sydney.
Tiie Bulletin lost its old contributor
“Mookingah” in the Broken Hill Hospital
on May 21. Being a sergeant of police,
stationed at far-away Tibooburra, John E.
Lumley had to keep almost wholly to the
Aboriginalities column ; but now and then he
was able to draw a little pen-picture of the
hardships of backblocks life. The circum-
stances surrounding his death themselves
illustrate some of those hardships. On the
15th, late at night, he had a paralytic
seizure. His mate, Constable Frazer, called
in the district nurse—the only trained help
available—-and next day they decided they
must rush the patient to the nearest medical
nelp. That meant 250 miles by car, and
none of it made road. They arrived at 7
a.m. on the 17th ; but the patient lasted only
four days more. Lumley was at Sunny
Corner before he was given charge of the
vast Tibooourra district, and he leaves a
young wife and infant at Lithgow.
Died in Adelaide on May 4, Alec Mac-
Donald, who went to the Far North in ’7B,
and was known from Port Augusta to Dar-
win as “Sandy Myrtle,” fluent abo. linguist
and good busliman. As far back as ’B6 he
led a party across the unknown from Ten-
nant’s Creek (N.T.) to Hall’s Creek, east
of Kimberley (W.A.), and in ’94 he took a
draft of horses from Oodnadatta to Cool-
gardie, via Fowler’s Bay and Eucla. Al-
though a delicate boy. he eventually attained
the solid weight of 23 stone. Sundown at
62.
Charles Goode, softgoods merchant and
philanthropist, of Adelaide, has had a 92nd
birthday. He is still in good health, and
visits his warehouse; but his memory isn’t
as good as it used to be.
The case of undertaker Knabe, lately
dead in Adelaide, shows the advantage of be-
longing to the one profession that is always
told to “do the thing properly.” Ivnabe was
a quiet man of whom little was known ex-
cept that be buried his fellow citizens satis-
factorily. But he left £72,000, and that —
since the Federal death-duties reach the
maximum at just about that figure—may be
taken as being officially pronounced the most
that anybody ought to leave.
Died at Malvern (Vic.), Henry Gunn
Applefoid, who had been smelling printer’s
ink since 1857. In that year he became
owner of the Dunolly Express, and drove
it till Dunolly began to peter out. Then
he shifted to Warrnambool, and of late years
owned the Alpha Printery in Melbourne, in-
cidentally spending a lot of time explaining
to people that he wasn’t King Cole, of the
Book Arcade.
Auckland was a very small place when
John Batger, who died there the other day,
landed from England 67 years ago. He
grew up with the town, and became manager
of the N.Z. Shipping Co., a job he held for
many years. Eighty-two was his record
when the call came.
The estate of Edward Stirling, the late
Professor of Physiology at Adelaide Univer-
sity, has been sworn at £65,700. It is
almost a record for a university professor;
but the Doctor began life as a comparatively
rich man, and held valuable pastoral inter-
ests in partnership with his brother Lance-
lot, pres'dent of S.A. Leg. Council.
Alexander Barron, just gone west in
M.L., was one of the old hands of the Lands
Department, his career running from the
abolition of the provinces down to his retire-
ment from the Under-Secretaryship a few
years ago. He was Under-Secretary in the
stirring days when the late “Jock” McKenzie
was Minister, and that sturdy Scotchman
was engaged in fiercely hunting down “dum-
mies” and establishing the 999 years’ lease.
Frank Anstey, M.H.R., just returned, was
misjudged by at least one Londoner. He
was travelling in a tube which pulled up
opposite a crowd delighted with the antics
of an elderly female drunk. A man next
door called Anstey’s attention to the exhibi-
tion by nodding toward it, remarking, “That’s
funny, eh?” Anstey looked, saw, shrugged
his shoulders, and looked no more. The
Londoner felt snubbed. When the car
stopped he got off; but first he touched
Anstey on the knee. “What’s the matter
with you, old chap,” he said, “is you’ve got
no sense of humor.”
J. H. Catts, M.11.R., began taking chances
early. When he was a schoolboy out
Parkes way he and a pal borrowed a baker’s
horse and cart for a drive, but refused to
allow his young brother to accompany them.
Young brother accordingly stowed away
where the loaves rest. Through the
hole in the top of the cart down which
the baker dives for bread Jimmy Catts
saw the other youngster. To scare
him he proceeded to drive through a
dam; but it was deeper than he expected.
With his pal he abandoned ship and went
for help for young brother, who, too big
to get through the hole in the top, and
afraid to open the door, was rescued parti-
ally drowned.
“T. 0.1.”: Apropos early Australian
Burts (B. 29/5/T9). Sydney of the ’fifties
had one who was in partnership with Row-
land Ilassall; they were auctioneers, etc., in
Pitt-street. This Burt, who had a fine
residence at Potts Point, was amongst the
early migrators to Fiji, about the time J. S.
Butters and his partner Baillie went. Fiji
was then a refuge for many who had unfor-
tunate creditors. The white additions in-
duced Thakambau to accept the throne as
king: his crowning was an enthusiastic func-
tion. With a king there must be a Ministry,
and one was formed with S. C. Burt as Chief
Secretary and Premier. J. S. Butters made
himself Speaker. The Mace was Thakambau’s
old war club mounted in silver. After some
time England took a hand and the king was
induced to cede the islands to Britain. Gov-
ernor Hercules Robinson and Attorney-
General Innes went down to attend to the
formalities; and out of this came the knight-
hood of Joe Innes. Sydney Burt returned
to Sydney and J. S. Butters to Melbourne,
where both ended their days.
IN FUTURO.
“The price of boots is likely to advance again.”
BLANK: “Who was the principal beneficiary
by your uncle's will?”
DE BLANKY : “My brother, of course. I teas
cut off with the es’ates and a paltry
half-million in cash. He got uncle's
two pairs of boots.”
Two old Tasmanian identities have just
gone over the hill. John Taylor, of Camp-
belltown, one of the Speck’s leading pastoral-
ists, had reached 74. His greatest treasure
was the Winton merino stud flock, with
which he had been a large exhibitor for 50
years. His companion was George Bookss,
well known in mining circles, who had passed
his 77. He, with the Bell brothers, pegged
out the Silver Queen, the Western, and
other mines at Zeehan.
The courtly Leonard Stowe, who has seen
a long procession of politicians come and go
since he became clerk to the M.L. Leg.
Council 54 years ago, has just given up.
through ill-health, his position as Clerk of
Parliaments, to which lie succeeded on the
retirement of Major Campbell in 1889.
Dead at Perth, Samuel Pearse, who was
born at Fremantle 75 years ago, and who
helped to pioneer the pearling industry of
the Nor’-West. Perhaps he was the only
pearler in Australia w'ho ever educated a
son to be a parson. His father was a settler
who dated from the ’twenties.
During the whole period of the war F.
Zabel, of Perth, was a civilian prisoner in
Ruhleben. He spent his time lecturing to
British prisoners, and in recognition of this
service he has got a Fellowship of the Geo-
logical Society, London. Since his release
he has gone to Canada to a lucrative mining
job.
The prisoner of the Sonoma, who can’t
laud at either end of the voyage, is called
Freeman. In 1875 a man called Rope
faced a N. S. Wales judge on a murder
charge, and never had a hope. In London
last September a man and woman who
were living together decided to commit sui-
cide. The woman poisoned herself success-
fully. The man threw himself under a train,
but was saved against his wishes, tried at
the Old Bailey, and sentenced. His name
was Luck.
“De Facto”: The story of the Dendy
family, to which Brighton (Vic.) owes its
name and its beginnings. For centuries they
had been great people about Brighton
(Eng.), and when Melbourne was very new
Ilenrv Dendy bought 5120 acres at Port
Phillip at fl an acre. Then he chartered a
ship and set sail with, his family and ser-
vants and stock. After rejecting St. Ivilda
he took his 5120 acres in a block that em-
braced nearly all of what is now Brighton
and a lot of Caulfield. But his squatting
and other ventures turned out badly and his
land was soon plastered with mortgages.
He had a friend who was a Family Herald
villain, and led him deeper into the mire, till
the mortgagees foreclosed and took the
Brighton property. Dendy was a man of
liberal heart and gave away big slices in his
prosperous days, including the foreshore,
which he made a public reserve. His son,
Henry Dendy, worked as an engine-driver
at Walhalla (Vic.) for a quarter of a cen-
tury, and was buried there. The Dendys
of the third generation are scattered over
Australia: there is one in W.A. and some
in N. S. Wales. Locally, Dendy-street is
the sole memorial of the family.
NORMAN MACLEOD.
Under the weeping clouds of dying May
He left us for a wider, higher flight
Than they who drive vast planes across the night
To win a mastery of the airy way.
He left us; and the world put off its grey ;
The calm sun shone and filled the world with light,
As though God set a sign in all men’s sight—
To-morrow dries the tears of yesterday.
Friendship has tears for parting. Who shall hind
The broken threads or stay the falling leaf?
What comfort is for us who grope to find
Strange paths to light out of the darks of grief?
Good friend, gone somewhere, death can never blind
The comrade faith that conquers unbelief.
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.


msm
m
■
U U ,1
ust^m
■i it ; !
a ■
f, pi-y ' '
*• •: r
11 ,
II
'•I'll
11
mm
mstTm
m
I
mat
I
i Is
■I ■
IS §1 •
II
ami
M
i H 111 IM‘ 1 *
Si
m
w~m
m
h& ■
a
• . •
Li
'
II
mm
mt
„
lilt
.
Vi
m
n
i< %
SB'
gfe
tattoos >
*s
P*
;:i- ■
a
■!': I
K
V
.»-•
%
' s
II
and Frequent Service
For
A
first glance, an “Austral” Eug appeals to you
by the beautiful character of its weave and
texture.
But it is the frequency of its usefulness —the
numerous occasions on which it will afford you
its friendly warmth and comfort that make it
invaluable.
Wrapped up in an "Austral” Rug in your Deck Chair,
Train or Motor-car —or in the cold cheerlessness of
Railway Station or Hotel Room, you will be grateful
for the forethought that prompted you to so provide
for your well-being.
Don’t go another day without your "Austral” Rug.
The BosKer” Rug
The actual size of the “Bosker” is 6ft. Sin. by Sft. 4in., which
is larger than a full-sized double-bed blanket. The patterns
are attractive, large check designs in light, medium and dark
colorings.
Price 30/-
The “Canberra Rug'
The “Canberra” is a Pure All-Merino Wool Rug, reversible, in
check designs, and the colorings are mostly tones of brown and
fawn, with grey, green and blue over-patterns. Sizes, 60 by
84 inches.
Price
42/-
Tbe MarricKville Rug'
The “Marrickville” is a Pure Merino Wool Rug of high-grade
finish and quality patterned on one side and plain on the
reverse, and having heavily-fringed' ends. A good, medium
weight, size 60 by 84 inches, and available in rich, warm
colorings, in which fawn, s’ate and brown shades predominate.
Price 55/-
The Austral Rug
The “Austral,” an extra-grade Pure Australian Merino Wool
Rug, full weight. Size, 60 by 84 inches. Patterned on one
side only, the reverse being quite plain. The check over-p.aid
patterns are most attractive, and include the colorings of light
and medium brown, fawn and slate shades.
Price 75/-
Special Concession to Returned Soldiers in Uniform of
5 per cent. (1/- in the £) on all Cash Purchases of £5
or over.
ORDERS DELIVERED FREE IN CITY, SUBURBS AND
COUNTRY.
rvi i w i%
, Wifi i
Everything for Hen’s and Boys’ Wear,
484 to 490 George Street,
3 to 17 Royal Arcade,
New Branch Store at 304 George Street
(Near Hunter Street),
SYDNEY.


medicine that goes hand in hand with good health—a kind of twin brother that
brings physical confidence, strength, mental energy and clearness, is Clements Tonic,
because it possesses those specific properties that rebuild the human constitution. It
strengthens the working parts, cleanses the stomach, purifies the blood, thus creating new
conditions with good health results to the user. If any greater proof is required of the
powers of this splendid medicine, the testimonies given afford it, written by those
who can well afford by experience to judge of its merits. For the general good of
the public they are published throughout Australia, and are well worth reading.
Over 300 voluntary letters in praise of this nerve remedy have been received in the last few months, which may be seen and verified at the
offices of the Company, Clements Ltd., Rozelle. Get it from your chemist or stove to-day, and get well. Do not wait until to-morrow.
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle, N.S.IV. .
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
“Outer”: Somebody in Sydney missed
a great chance by not calling out the rifle
clubs to pot the mad Chinaman who, armed
with two automatic pistols and a bag of
cartridges, plugged 17 citizens and with-
stood a 15 hours’ night-siege by police
THE MORNING AFTER.
HUB (after explanation): “You know, dear,
I wouldn’t deceive you.”
WIFE ( coldly): “You wouldn’t —no matter
what you said.”
and fire brigade, only to be fatally perforated
by a forthright American with a bor-
rowed police revolver. All through the
Avar the clubs were complaining that
Authority would not let them fly at
the Germans. Authority suffered much from
the riflemen, and it could have got back
neatly by sending a distress call for snipers
when Ah Trigger had shot up the mission
and gone to ground in a barricaded house in
a narrow lane. Sydney would have loved
to see cabs and motors rolling up filled with
aged and spectacled shooting enthusiasts,
overcoated and thermos-bottled for the long
night on the roofs, followed by nervous
A.D.C.’s carrying telescope-cases, cartridgi-
boxes, windage-tables, rugs and Red Cross
outfits. But it would have been rotten for
the cats!
* * * *
Concerning an editor's bugbear:—
The N. S. Wales Full Court has let newspapers
know for certain where they stand with regard to
contempt of court. The Sunday Times had eom-
menced an action for libel against the Sun. The
Times continued to publish the series of signed
articles whose authenticity the Sun had challenged.
The Sun then made further statements regarding the
continued series. The Court laid it down clearly
that the mere issue of a writ did not stop the Sun
or anybody else from “denying the authenticity of
the articles whose genuineness was questioned.” If
the Sun or anybody else makes libellous statements
there is a remedy in an action for damages. The
important principle laid down is that comment on
a matter out of which an action for libel has origi-
nated is not to be stopped by this contempt of
court process. If the Court had decided otherwise
the public interest would be seriously endangered.
The Bulletin, for instance, commented on a wild-
cat prospectus. A writ for libel was promptly fired
in. As, however, the prospectus was not withdrawn,
The Bulletin continued its comments. It was
threatened with contempt-of-court proceedings, but
the bluff failed and the proceedings were never
taken. In clue course the action for libel itself
was dropped—as actions for libel often are. The
object of the writ in such cases is indeed to burke
further comment while the plaintiff goes about the
business whose bona fides has been challenged. The
Full Court decision has knocked away that subter-
fuge. The truth is that not the further comment
but the issue of the writ itself is in such cases the
real contempt of the judicial processes. The Sunday
Times-Sun action probably does not belong to that
category at all. That point, however, is immaterial;
for the Full Court decision with regard to contempt
governs all cases.
* * * *
“Hamer”: One of the demobilisation
depots in England has a cat called Archibald
which" has been entered on transport rolls,
deleted, and suffered all the thuds that be-
fall the average Australian soldier awaiting
demobilisation. Archibald was a joke put
up by the n.c.o.’s in one of the offices; but
he puzzled the demobilisation authorities in
London, who wrote asking for the full
regimental particulars, number, date of en-
listment of Archibald, also his initials. The
merry Diggers who christened the cat wrote
back: “Archibald deleted boat-roll Nevessa —
family reasons.”
* * # #
South Aus. has at last finalised its Act
for simplifying and cheapening divorce. The
judge who hears the case can now give
the decree nisi wilhout sending it on form-
ally to the Full Court; and the decree abso-
lute follows in due time (unless complica-
tions arise) on a mere filing of affidavits.
But much more important is the new enact-
ment putting the sexes on a level as regards
misconduct. The S. Australian woman can
now get rid of her partner—as he could
always get rid of her —on that sole ground,
without waiting for desertion or some techni-
cal act of “cruelty.”
# * * *
“Rangan”: A criminal of deep dye was
recently run to earth by South Brisbane
Bumbledom. On a salary of £3 10s. a week
he tried to support a
wife and nine children.
His job was to collect
city rates, and during
his criminal career over
£40,000 came into his
hands—came in in odd
shillings, mostly, while
at home there was a
nightmare of unpaid
bills, hungry kids, no
boots, and soaring
prices hanging round
his neck, or wherever
nightmares hang. Of
course he fell, or rather
he was pushed, for the
Council didn’t trouble
to keep a constant
check on his books.
Bumbledom’s friend the
ass said 12 months, and patted Bumbledom
on the back for unearthing the criminal. So
the State keeps the man, his wife and the
nine kids for 12 months, and Bumble, who by
his casualness made a criminal, goes up one
in his own opinion.
• * « «
“Noel”: Cassidy had been shockingly
sozzled overnight, and was duly lined up
before the O.C. at orderly-room in the morn-
ing. Cassidy had been there before —often.
He was a hopeless proposition. “Look
here, Cassidy, dammit!” blustered our Old
Man, “what d’ye mean by it? This has got
to stop. Are you going to run this bally
show, or am I?” “Well,” Cassidy drawled,
“I think p’raps you’d better do it to-day.
I’ve got such a head on me this morning I
couldn’t run a pie-stall.”
* * * *
The financial and matrimonial affairs of
Catts, M.P., got more space from the Sydney
dailies last week than Catts can get for 217
speeches. They were such involved affairs
as to suggest that while toiling as a politi-
cian, keeping track of numerous bank
accounts and attending to the ladies, Catts
was one of the busiest men in the Common-
wealth The climax in the preliminary
Divorce Court proceedings happened when
the lady who is not Mrs. Catts, after being
talked about at great length for several days,
was produced as a witness. (Another lady
whom Catts presented with a set of teeth
had only been mentioned casually.) She is
young, a good looker and dresser, with large
blue eyes and substantial feet. Her furs
must have made a fair hole in somebody’s
banking account. Though a couple of motor-
cars had streamed through the depositions,
it transpired that Catts never presented
FIXED UP.
DOCTOR: “And what about that all-gone feeling in your stomach? Hare ire, shifted that ?”
Patient; “Oh. you’ve shifted that all right, doctor—to my banking account."
this lady with diamonds. She objected to
diamonds. Catts says he is now worth only
£3 a week owing to his liabilities. The con-
fession made more poignant than ever the
reflection that there are still some things
that only the bloated capitalist can do with
comfort.
A cheerful variation of the familiar “Wel-
come home” banner was displayed the other
day by a North Fitzroy (Vic.) family, which
received its soldier with the usual show of
bunting and a placard over the gate: “The
Better ’Ole.”
* * # *
“S.S.” : It was at a little party called to
celebrate the return of John from his date
with the Hun, and John, at the urgent re-
quest of all his parents and half his aunts,
was telling some few of his adventures at
the Front. He told especially of the inci-
dent that accounted for his dose of shell-
shock. He and five others, blessed by
Heaven and the military authorities with
leave and a free return ticket to Blighty,
were standing in a group, talking happily
of the forthcoming joyous 14 days, “when,”
said John, “our conversation was interrupted
by the arrival of a pot of shrapnel. The
Iluns had thrown it right into the middle of
our little talk.” “How rude!” said Aunt
Martha.
* * # *
From a girl who lived through it: —
The jazz has skipped over the ocean and arrived!
In the mania which attacked the U.S. before the war
and continued right through 1914-15 with fury,
it was not only the young and light of heart and
foot who danced, but portly fathers of families and
giddy old bachelors as well, with results usually
ludicrous and often disastrous. After a substantial
dinner of porterhouse steak with trimmings and ice-
cream and a cocktail or two and some wine, up
jumped Mr. Fat-and Fifty, seized his dancing
partner, and they were off on the fox-trot or glid-
ing and dipping through the tango till the music
ceased and Fat-and-Fifty dropped into his chair, his
red face streaming and his collar a rag, while his
chic partner gazing on him, reflected that she was
earning her dinner at any rate. Again one would
meet with a nice, gentle, elderly couple jogging
through the tango in a nice, gentle, elderly way, and
hubby would explain between steps as he mopped his
shining brow, “This is the way to keep young!”
Very often hubby was ignorant of his spouse’s
attainments in this direction, and vice versa. Hubby
employed his “working-back” hours in stepping
merrily at some dance-hall, while his lady spent
the afternoons in a hotel ball-room, dancing with
an elegant young man supplied by the management
and known as a tango lizard or parlor snake. While
teaching the lady steps, the lizard often wriggled
into her confidence, not to say affections —and some
times wriggled out again with her cheque-book or
jewels. America’s entry into the war caused these
get-rich-easy young men to be numbered among the
unemployed, and for awhile people ceased to gyrate
in hot rooms to the accompaniment of loud music.
Now, however, the reaction has come, and the dance
is born to new life and vigor. One of the new
frolics is “Shaking the Shimmy.” It, along with
“Tickle-toe,” was banned somewhere in the U.S.
—new Jersey, I think. But that won’t prevent us
from sampling it along with the rest.
“Y.Z.”: I have just met a matron who
explains to me that she was ruined by the
effort of the authorities in Melbourne to
“straddle the hours” as a means of prevent-
ing congestion on the railways and in the
trams when the ’flu scare was at its worst.
I could not see how such a simple-seeming
reform could desolate the happy home, and
told her so. “It was easy enough,” she
said; “I was a boarding-house keeper.” I
was still in the dark. “I had 38 young
chaps living in my house,” she went on.
“most of them clerks or counter-hands in
city warehouses.” “Well, even supposing?”
STRATEGY.
JIM: “Gam, Bill, word the old pot an’ give
us a chance. You’re artillery, ain’t
yer? It’s your bloomin’ duty to clear
the way fer my advances, ain’t it?"
said I. She looked at me pityingly. “For
a space of five weeks more than two-thirds
of my boarders caught trains half an hour
later than usual.” “Yes?” “That meant
half an hour longer for breakfast!” Then I
understood.
(Continued on page 18.)
A GEOLOGIST ON SEX.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Professor David, in his Empire Day address at
the Sydney Girls’ High School, advised the girls not
to marry slackers.”
For a scientific man you are very slow to figure;
Or is it, dear Professor, that you’d make the hero
be
A Mormon to a dozen girls, or a number even bigger,
That you urge the women to be from all “selfish
slackers free” ?
Ah, if you had learned women and their ways, Pro-
fessor dear,
You’d know the absent hero’s not a patch on him
that’s here.
You’re impulsive as an actuary; and as a calculator
Your sums are wild, and stutter when they re
added finally;
Can three hundred thousand soldiers be sufficient
indicator
For a million maidens waiting for their con-
jugality ?
Nonsense, dear Professor David—a child-geologist
Could tell you that you’ve missed the vital item on
the list.
For a girl will not stay single, though the heroes all
be wed;
For a little draper even she concocts her glory-box.
She will marry even a poet to secure her board and
bed,
Or a haberdasher’s salesman from the hosiery and
sox;
She will marry if she can, and while she can, Pro-
fessor dear,
And the absent hero’s less than he who's not, hut
yet is near.
QUEENSLAND.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
THE SCOURGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Death slunk from out of the mist and rain;
He struck full-armed, and he struck again.
He passed, the work he had come for, done,
And the world was bathed in gracious sun.
But hearts there be, where he took his way,
Whose world will always be cold and grey.
N.S.W.
J. B. D.


w iVwi*'
vl
THE
NEW^
4
9
It has a broad, flat
traction-surface.”
Is thick in the wall and broad and thick in
the tread.
Combines all advantages of rubber non-skids.
Has all the qualities that could be wished for.
Elasticity, Suppleness,
Resiliency.
Long life, hard wear.
In wet or dry weather, for
good or bad roads,
No better cover can be fitted.
.(SSI
V
%
v
rtOc
*
h
*7
Y
Stocked by al! dealers
who Study Quality.


cm
i $ zsrki:, &
POT STILL
Stands Out from the
Ruck of Whiskies
BBINDS
WHISKY
A Pure Pot Still Spirit made
from finest Barley‘Malt and
Sparkling Highland Water.
To meet the
demand
TOOHEYS
Have brewed a
Special Stout
Equal to Imported.
TRY IT.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
-Managing Director.
HER TROUBLES.
“ I’ve been ringing my ’phone for ten minutes.”
“Carry on! I’ve got to listen to the d-thing all day.”
“Historicus”: The word “Digger” was
used for “soldier” in Cromwell’s time, and
I wouldn’t be surprised to hear it was old
when Caesar’s army dug in along the Aisne
line. Everard and Winstanley, of Crom-
well’s Ironsides, with about 30 hard-doers,
certainly earned the title of “Diggers.”
Claiming that the soil belonged to the
people, they went upon waste land in
Surrey, dug, and planted beans —though not
the ones Cromwell gave them later when he
heard of it.
hang on to those tins
when they’re empty.
They’re worth gold out
here—to dig in with,
y’know, when the Taubes
come. Handiest and
quickest digger y’can
have in this sand, a bully-
tin ! It’s a matter of
life or death to dig in
quick, y’know. Blokes’ll
try and get those tins off
you, but you stick to ’em
like treacle to a blanket,
even if they offer you
pounds! Why, I’d be glad
of one myself, but it’d be
murder to take ’em with-
out warning you.” Vari-
ous subsequent offers of
10 to 100 “dizzies” (pias-
tres) a tin impressed
Innocence still further.
Two days later he slyly
and solemnly pressed the
second empty tin on his
protector in token of
proper gratitude —“for
tellin’ me,” —and the gift
was gratefully accepted.
“Where’s y’r own?” asked
the joker. “In y’r bivvy!
Strike, lad, wot’ll happen
if Jacko comes over when
you’re out somewhere?
Come to my tent and I’ll
fix yours up in style for
carrying, same as I’m
going to do my own!”
Yanks, Woodbines, some women and a stray
Tommy. The village John Hop looks lazily
on. Before an Australian officer can reach
the scene the barrel is empty. Being fami-
liar with the ways of traders, I was not
surprised on reaching camp next day to find
the bill already there:
To Australian Government. To 18 Stout £2
14s. (Some Australian soldiers stole a cask of
stout off a lorry and drank it. Please send cheque.)
We paid, and wondered whether every camp
got a similar bill.
“Larrie”: This happened in the Romani
days, when we were short of aeroplanes and
Jacko used to skittle us daily from the air.
Private Innocence drifted out to the regi-
ment with a draft and straightway fell
among leg-pullers. A specious friend led
him aside. “Got any bully?” he whispered.
“Two tins ! You’re lucky! Look here, lad,
Behold then, for several days afterwards the
two of them getting about the camp, each
with an empty bully-tin dangling on a neat
strap from his belt, the one in joy, the other
in simplicity—two idiots of diverse brands.
“Billy B.”: When Burns wrote: “Oh, wr.d
some power the giftie gie us, to see our-
selves as ithers see us,” he was walking
behind a woman who was wearing goloshes.
* * * *
“Yal”: Oh, yes, England is very hospit-
able and all that; but —well, here’s a story
to illustrate my point. Scene : A respect-
able and saintly English town which has
“Colonials” camped nearby and a lot of
parasites within its borders. Time: A
Saturday afternoon. A few Diggers stand-
ing around killing time. A brewer’s lorry
laden with barrels of stout in charge of a
dopey Woodbine comes along. A rut in the
cobbled street, a bump, one barrel rolls off
and the lorry passes on. The Diggers n-p
not last in the rush; but there are also
“Desert Dan”: Some of the Syrian vil-
lages are piled on top of mountain peaks,
the buildings squashed together to prevent
them toppling over the edges. There is no
room for streets, and they put small
streaks of space between the houses. These
lanes bushed many an expert rider during
HER GOOD FORTUNE.
HUSBAND: “I think I shall join another
club.”
WIFE: “I don’t suppose I shall see you at
all then.”
HUSBAND: “Oh, yesj they have a ladies’
day.”
the big Palestine stunt. We went through
most of the infernal mazes in single file. I
stopped once to get some figs. In a twink-
ling my troop had disappeared. I tried all
sorts of directions without locating them,
and then threatened to blow off the head of
the first native who would not show me
which way the army went. If I hadn’t I’d
have been there yet. In these mountain
labyrinths we caught many a Hun and Jacko
paymaster carrying cash for troops we had
already collected.
* * * #
“W. 8.” : I was issuing food orders to ’flu
patients at a N. S. Wales Government relief
depot when a worried-looking women came
in. She told me she was married and that
her husband’s present address was Gouiburn.
I hesitated a moment. Then “What’s his
occupation?” I ventured. “Oh, he’s a biga-
mist, sir,” she said.
“Dings”: It is as well the old folks at
home can’t find out what “criminals” some of
their sons are, or there would be many grey
heads bowed in sorrow. Here is a typical
“crime” sheet of a Digger:—
Place. Offence. Punishment.
In the Field. Conduct to the prejudice A
of good order and Mili-
tary discipline in that he
(1) Stated that Sgt.
Blank was half drunk
at B — ! —. 14 Days’ Field
(2) Stated that Ser- > Punishment,
geants misappropriated No. 2.
issue of rations, namely
rum.
(3) Stated that Ser-
geants (unnamed) posted
their reliefs while “half /
potty.’’ ,
Westham. Breaking Depht Routine v
Order No. 608 in that he
was making use of Wash- } 3 Days’ C.B.
ing Bowl for Heating
Water. J
* * * *
“Country Ped.”: Two years ago I opened
up a parcel of school requisites from a Mel-
bourne retailer, and found to my delight
that the penny wooden set-squares and
rulers, so muqh used in elementary schools
for instrumental drawing, were stamped
“Made in Australia.” They were splendid
value —true to shape and accurately marked.
But they were the first and last Australian-
mades I ever saw. You can guess the rea-
son. Nippon (presumably on the advice of
some importer) got in his fine work, and
another new Australian industry faded into
oblivion. As for the Jap. articles, I cuss
every time I give an instrumental drawing
lesson. The rulers are rough edged and
badly gauged, and the set-squares are as
right-angled as the old dog’s hind leg. Up
with an adequate tariff wall and there is a
chance here for a small industry for par-
tially-disabled soldiers, working on the
hypothesis that there are over 700,000
scholars enrolled in the State schools of the
Commonwealth, each of whom breaks or
loses one penny ruler and one set-square per
annum.
“S.A.P.”: Carrying excess luggage (B.
22/5/’l9) wasn’t the only bad habit some
Australian officers picked up from the Tom-
mies. I served in a field engineer company,
and our seven officers monopolised 15 men.
The major had three (batman, groom and
galloper), the captain had a uutman and a
groom, and the five subalterms had a batman
each and three grooms between them. Then
there was the officer’s cook and his offsider.
And I make no mention of the officers’
mess-cart driver who. in between his trips
into the back area for fresh eggs and whisky,
sometimes did a bit towards winning the
war. #
Melbourne Age knows of a girl:—
Housemaid, unscrupulously clean, superior girl,
references first-class hotels.
Evidently means that she steals Mrs. Bung s
scented soap.
“Point Five”: Human life seems to be
cheap in parts of Victoria. Residents of
Wangaratta point to a crossing on the Mel-
bourne-Sydncy line on the edge of the town
where five citizens have been killed by trains
during the last few years. Nothing has
been done to it, so it is all ready for the
sixth. One of the latest victims was a
farmer who did not believe in banks, and
stowed his money away on the place. _ He
is supposed to have had a kerosene-tin or
two planted somewhere. But the end came,
too suddenly for him to say where.
* * * *
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: An old home
with historic associations is being demol-
ished. This is Grantham, at North Sydney,
where died recently Burton Bradley, solici-
tor and amateur botanist of distinction.
Long ago it was occupied by Admiral Philip
Parker King, son of Governor King, the
first Australian to reach the rank of admiral.
King had been to dinner on board a man-o’-
war in the harbor. On returning to Gran-
tham he died suddenly on the doorstep. That
was in 185(5. The grounds are, as usual,
being cut up into “desirable building allot-
ments.” Knowing what would happen, Mr.
Bradley gave his valuable plants to the
Botanic Gardens before he died.
* t # #
From Suez :
Things have been happening in this land of sin,
ar.d instead of being on the water bound for Aus-
tralia, as we expected to be last month (March),
we are still here and likely to be indefinitely. Half
our brigade left on March 15. Our lot was scheduled
to leave on the 21st, but 24 hours before sailing
time these thrice-cursed dogs of Gyppos revolted
and murdered a few Australians, Tommies and
white civilians. So we were detained and sent to
guard this portion of the canal. At one station
AN ASSURED WELCOME.
“I expect your husband will be glad to see
you .”
“George is ALWAYS delighted when I come
home. You see, I leave the baby with
him.”
on the railway a troop (32 men) of the Regt.,
who were garrisoning the station, were surrounded
by over 1000 rebels and given an hour in which
to surrender. The boys put in that hour entrench-
ing; then, having placed two machine-guns in posi-
tion, they told the Gyppos to go to Hell! The
Gyppos attacked, and were mowed down— soo dead
and wounded being the crop. Three big boats—
Dorset, Devon and Tahiti—which were to have taken
°” the ' " tur " ,rip ,0 “
THE REFORMATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
A reckless chap was Johnson when
He had the mood at night to roam,
Before he struck the curious craze
Which takes a man quite early home.
Full often in the early hours,
Lulled by his own most splendid snore,
Have we set Johnson gladly down
At his —or someone else’s —door.
He was a man of unpaid bills
And many moves; but all the same
He had a laugh for everything,
And all good fellows knew his name.
His was a reputation good,
But Mrs. Johnson liked it not;
To let him know she disapproved
She spoke about it quite a lot.
When I have seen him bravely home,
On some occasions he would say:
“You knock at the front door, old man,
While I get in the other way.”
Once, when I did so, while I stood
And waited in the starlight dim,
I got on my devoted head
Cold water that was meant for him.
But that was long and long ago.
No more for him the glasses clink;
For Johnson is a man reformed,
And now he simply scorns to drink!
He boars no bulging parcels home ;
He cut that with the giddy life;
No more he drags me to a Greek
To choose a lobster for his wife.
These days he shuns all fellowship,
And would not lend a friend a crown
If he was starving; but he bears
A growing, mighty name in town.
We watch him waxing proud and fat,
Ilis.heavy bank-roll bulges out;
His waistcoat seems to spread apace;
In fact, he grows—but drinks not —stout.
He goes to church in shining black,
Ohurchwardening the best he can ;
And in the suburb where he dwells
I think he is an alderman!
Yet Mrs. Johnson in the street
The other day it chanced I met,
And as she shook my hand I saw,
And wondered why, her eyes were wet.
I asked of Johnson and I saw
Upon her face a look of pain;
And then she spoke impulsively:
“Oh, can’t you get him drunk again?”
I shook my head; for well I knew
How vain my chance of doing good.
I gripped her hand in sympathy,
Because I think I understood.
N.S.W.
HAMER.


B> rrrn|
H
■
H
1 ■
m
■
■
mm
■
1
11111
si
m
' :
*
A
A
m
m
mm
WBEffl®
g a m
m
-■ : s
M
mm
mm
, mm
:
I
1
O
m
wpn
■HN
■
v: -
yjiß
- ' if
EX
v-
I
V
■•V'i ,;
■
ADAMAX ROOFING Resists the Ravages
of Acids, Gases or Chemical Fumes.
“We want facts about your roofing, not generalities. Prove that its use saves
us money and well buy it” That was the cry from shrewd men when
Adamax Roofing was first introduced.
We <rave them PACTS—we told them that:—
ADAMAX ROOFING
Resists the Elements
-that rain, heat, cold, wind, gases, chemical fames or acids, etc., do not a!"eet it:
—that it is made from long-fibred felt, thoroughly impregnated with pure mineral hydro-carbon, and
finished by a process which makes it timeproof:
-that it saves in the cost of roofing, because it can be laid flat, the edges being cemented with Adamax
Roofing Cement. This saves roofing timbers and time taken m roofing buildings, etc.
To-day Adamax Roofing is admitted “The Best that Money can buy.”
Learn the full facts. They are given in our FREE PAMPHLET. Send for copy now; also for a
sample.
"LOTTO ID” PLASTER SHEETING—
Ideal for Interior Walls and Roofing.
With them you can secure pleasing panel effects, for the sheets lend them-
selves to artistic treatment.
Their first cost is their last cost, and there is no further expense for renova-
tion or replacement.
The Sheets are not affected by climatic changes. They make comfortable,
cool rooms in Summer and warm rooms in Winter—are fire-retarding—pliable
and elastic—will not warp, twist or buckle. We are agents for Lottoid m
N. S. Wales and Queensland. Write for further particulars to-day to our
Sydney or Brisbane offices.
Si
H9K
m
—7-»#
ROOFIN
W® Adams &C£
MUST
.
.
a
H
William Adams eC!!;
175 Clarence Street, Sydney.
521 “3 Collins Street, Melbourne.
96 Currie Street, Adelaide.
33 King Street, Perth.
Cr. Edward & Mary Streets, Brisbane.
Mo
in
or


i m
m
ptuG SLICE
The
finest
TOBACCO
in
two forms—
Plug-Slice
or
Ready-Rubbed.
“EDGEWORTH
SPORTING
CARTRIDGES
Our Special Offer.
The Celebrated
SOVEREIGN, 21/- per 100
SMOKELESS, 20 6 per 100- in 500 lots
CARTRIDGE, 20/- per 100 -in 1000 lots.
This is the finest smokeless cartridge made.
12-Gauge, loaded, double-chilled shot, and
Nobel’s Empire Smokeless Powder.
Shot Nos. 2,3, 4,5, 6, 8 and 10.
We have the largest stocks in Victoria
of Winchester, Remington and Dominion
Cartridges. Send for special list.
McEWAN’S,
Melbourne’s Busiest Hardware Store,
119-125 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
A Si
Success
(Si
orgelV
WMsmf
TheTOP-NOTCHScotch
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Guy Mopoke”: The lfTughing jack is a
demon to fight when he comes home and finds the
co-re. on the premises. Saw a dinkum go t’other
morning. Both gents were in clinches on the floor
of the arena, a clear patch in a western N.S.W.
scrub. One tough had a beautiful hold on (he other’s
wing, dose to the body, and was swinging and
hooking with both claw's in good style. The other
bloque had an ample mouthful of the enemy’s belly-
band, and was doing good work with his disengaged
wing. No notice was taken of my arrival. I offered
my services as referee, and attempted to break the
clinch per medium of my old panama, but there was
nothing doing. Then I tried a little gentle pressure
with my No. 10. Still nothing doing. When the
water-bag was half-emptied the scrappres realised
that a stranger had arrived, and hurled themselves
to the top of the nearest tree. Meanwhile the lady
in the case was having hysterics in an ironbark close
by—not because her conscience had smitten her, not
because the two fools w'ere trying to murder each
other, but because she had been caught napping, so
to speak.
» * * *
“Morpeth W T.”: Re “Moana” (B.
27/3/’l9) and the Maori word Waitara. The “in-
decency” which he has been told it signifies is abso-
lutely meaningless. Waitara is short for “Wai
taranui o Ngarue,” a name which has its source in
Maori folklore. The yarn is this. In the early morn-
ing of Maori history there was a notable traveller
and explorer in the North Island called Ngarue. In
the course of his explorations he traversed the West
Coast from Kawhia harbor southwards to Taranaki.
It was on this trip that the Waikawau, the Awakino,
Mokau, Mohakatino, Tongaporutu, Mimi, Urenui and
Waithra rivers were discovered. Ngarue evidently
believed in working on system. Each morning before
starting he flung his teko, or dart, aw'ay ahead, and
its flight was the measure of the journey for the day.
On the day the party left the Urenui the dart was
flung as usual, and that evening Ngarue came to a
broad tidal river, with the teko sticking in the
ground on its bank. Pierced by the arrow and
pinned to rhe ground he found a dead taranui. The
taranui was a bird, long extinct; probably no white
man has ever seen one. What should this river be
called ? What else but “Wai taranui o Ngarue,”
literally, “River taranui of Ngarue,” or, as we should
say, the river of Ngarue’s taranui. And so it was
done, but the descendants of our hero, the tangata-
wlienua, cut the name down to the familiar Waitara
of our own times. A perfectly correct rendering of
the name would be Taranui River, except, of course,
that the reference to Ngarue would be omitted. As
to Rotorua, the word simply means two lakes, and
does not, and cannot mean, anything else.
* * * *
“Sue”: Here’s another mother of Aus-
tralian soldiers. I was visiting at a farm in
wayback Vic. when the neighbor’s small boy hauled
in his 5-year-old sister with the remark: “Mum
thinks Sis is bit with a snake an’ she wants you to
fix it up.” (We had, by the way, just finished
burying the best cattle-dog, which had let a
snake get the better of him.) Sis stood stolidly
while the ligature was tied round her thigh, remark-
ing, when asked, that is was “cutting a bit.” Dad
went to the grindstone and got a good saw-edge on
his pocket-knife, sterilised the blade on his pants
and, because of my murmur of doubt as to its clean-
liness, gave additional cleansing by stropping it on
his palm, which he had lubricated with saliva.
Then he got to work ! The wound was well scari-
fied, rubbed with eucalyptus, chewed, sucked,
pinched and finally scrubbed with Condy’s crystals.
As Sis then declared that she felt all right, except
that her leg was a. bit sore, we decided that she
had possibly only been pricked with a thistle. But
not one tear nor a whimper through it all!
“Southern Cross” : Re “Flossie Flapper’s”
lament (B. 8/5/’l9) about the bushman using
’possum skins to protect his table legs, and her
subsequent query, “What about our legs” ? Let me
advise her to try well-dried porcupine skins.
“Te Wliare” : Whenever an English scribe
starts out on the natural history of Australia he gets
hopelessly bogged. Sam Mossman (who lived long
enough in Australia to give his monniker to Moss-
man’s Bay\ in “Our Australian Colonies,” has some
Spicy junks anent the fauna and flora of this con-
tinent. Thus, in February, 1798, three runaway con-
victs sleeping in the bush “heard a bird sing delight-
fully in the morning for an hour or more.” The
serenader proved to be the “lyre-tail, Menura
superba It/ra of naturalists, belonging to the family
megapodina” (jungle-fowl breed). As a matter of
fact, the lyre-bird was formerly placed diffidently
among the wrens, and is now' sorted out into a new'
genus—the menuridee-— containing three distinct
species of the freak-tailed fowls. The convicts shot
some of the lyre-birds and brought the skins back to
the settlement on the shores of Farm Cove. In 1800
an “Australian eagle” was seen near Broken Bay.
THE ART OF THE WOWSER.
A study from the nude.
The bird put in a strong claim to be remembered by
a convict who was lying at the bottom of a boat
with his legs shackled, by “striking its talons
through the man’s foot!” A “crowning ornithologi-
■cal discovery” followed when an “Australian ostrich,
erroneously called the emu,” called casually at the
settlement in quest of tin-tacks and nails —a favorite
diet of this robust feeder. The native pear is, we
learn, as “deceitful as Dead Sea apples, which, when
a man bites them, fills his mouth with, ashes.” The
finest of the “beautiful climbing plants that entwine
themselves over the branches of the she-oaks”
( Casuarintß ) is the “Australian virgin bower”
(Clematis mossmana) —“maiden’s joy” in current
lingo. The climbing stem of this creeper is decked
with “trifoliate leaves aijd serrated cordato-ovate
leaflets. In plain, unvarnished Anglo-Saxon the
wild clematis is merely a vine with white flowers
resembling orange-blossom, to which succeed a pro-
fusion of tag 3 like raw cotton—the “feathery awns”
of Sam Mossman aforesaid. The discovery of the
duck-billed platypus predates that of the lyre-bird by
one year. The beast was found in a lake near the
Hawkesbury in 1797. Sir Everard Howe, a famous
old-time anatomist, named the freak animal Ornitho-
rynchus which still sticks as the scientific
label. Mossman’s book contains some fairly accurate
kangaroo literature, but it is a libel to speak of the
big hopper “bounding over the grass, unimpeded by
the stalks.” A 10ft. fence won’t stop an “old-man”
’roo when in a hurry.
“Dark Face”: The so-called half-castes of
the Bass Straits islands are really of very mixed and
intricate ancestry. It is doubtful whether there are
now any true half-castes—children, that is, of the
white sealers and the black women, whether Tas-
manian or Australian, whom they bought or stole.
Certainly, the popular idea that the black strain is
nearly all Tasmanian does not square with the facts.
The old hands were not a bit particular about which
side of the Straits they got their women from, and
many, if not most, came from what is now Victoria
and S. Aus. Crawford Pasco, who visited Cape
Barren in 1840, says that the wife of Jimmy Munro,
“King of the Straits,” was a Port Phillip lubra, and
this was not an isolated case. Then there are obvi-
ous traces of Maori blood in some of the Cape Barren
Islanders —natural enough, seeing that there were
often Maoris amongst the crews of the old-time
sealers and whalers. Stray South Sea Islanders and
Lascars occasionally drifted into the Straits in the
same way ; one of the men speared in 1824 by Mos-
quito and the Oyster Bay blacks was Mammoa, a
native of Tahiti. Even the Australian and Tas-
manian aborigines, though not much of watermen, as’
a rule, took to the sea occasionally. Cases arc on
record of Sydney-side blacks working as sealers, and
William Lannfi, the last full-blooded male Tas-
manian, had been a whaler. After all this original
mix-up there has followed a century or so of cross-
ing and inter-breeding, varied by a few new strains
of white blood, till the result is a real racial pro-
blem. Extreme variability in some families has
resulted from all this mixing. In one case a boj'
has a brown, almost coffee-colored skin, with very
dark-brown eyes and the curly \Voolly black hair of
the vanished Tasmanians, while his sister, a couple
of years younger, has yellow hair, blue eyes and a
pink-and-white complexion. There’s a lot of varia-
tion mentally, too. Melbourne has one Straits
family which has a good position in business, and
makes a first-class showing in all-round intelligence
and ability ; on the other hand, some of the mutton-
birders are well down at the other end of the scale.
“Otira” : The train for Henderson (M.L.)
was moving reverently past Waikumete Cemetery'.
It had shown deep respect for the dead ever since
leaving Auckland ; and as a soft note moving across
a summer harmony of landscape, it was appropriate.
Suddenly there came a sound of a man jumping t
the ground, and his boots crunched on the ballast
as he walked towards the engine. Another thud
followed, then running feet were heard and a man
swearing. The engine woke up and whistled, and
the train stopped dead. “What is it. A hold-
up ?” a commercial traveller shouted. Everyone
climbed out and saw the guard and a ticket clerk
sitting on a man’s chest while the engine-driver and
fireman stood by. “What d’ye mean by it?’’ the
guard hissed. “Mean by what?” the man gasped.
“Jumpin’ off while the train’s in motion?’’
“Struth,” snorted the man, “I got an appointment
two miles ahead and I’m half an hour late
already.”
* * * *
“Malcolm Mac”: Next time you get fish-
stung light a match and hold it to the affected part.
You won't feel the burn, and the pain will be
greatly diminished. Got the dodge from one of the
oldest professional fishermen on the coast.-
* * * «
“S.S.S.”: In the outer isles of Torres
Strait there’s a Strong line of demarcation between
women's work and a man’s. Women till the taro
patches, wash sago and catch fish with spear or line.
The boss may take big fish with a net, but no other
way. If he were starving he wouldn’t interrupt a
crustacean or shell-fish.
“Searchlight”: The staunch-looking bay
absolutely refused to pull a cart with a few bricks
.in it up a slight rise. The driver became exas-
perated and, after reciting the Song of Solomon, he
took some straw and an old box and started to light
a fire under the brute. “I guess that’ll shift you,
you cow,” he grunted. The prad looked on inter-
estedly while the fire was being started, and as
soon as it got a go on he moved sufficiently to
bring it under the cart. After kicking the brute
till we exhausted ourselves, we got a hustle on and
saved the dray from the flames.
“Dugout”: I undertook to teach Jackie,
the black rouseabout, how to drive the station motor-
waggon. After three weeks of explanation and de-
monstration I decided to test his knowledge. In
reply to my questions concerning the various parts
he assured me that he knew all about them. “Well,
then,” I said in conclusion, “is there anything you
are not quite clear about?” Jackie scratched his head
and looked puzzled. “Well, yes, boss,” he faltered ;
“there’s one little thing I don’ know. “What is
It?” 1 asked. “Well,” he went one, “I don’ under-
stan’ what the h — makes the ’fernal thing go
without hosses.”
* * * *
“Agricola”: All the native Australian
mammalia are marsupials with the exception of
the dingo, and his ticket as a native has not been
properly certified. I will not guarantee the bush
rat as a marsupial, and could do with information
on that point. I find that many people are aston-
ished to learn that the native cat is a marsupial,
and positively refuse to believe that the wombat
belongs to this company. For the tiniest mar-
supial, I nominate the little sugar squirrel, often
called the flying mouse. A specimen which came
my way lately was only three inches long. Un-
fortunately, it was dead, but in the pouch were
three miniatures, only about an inch long, yet
almost ready to leave the pouch. The babies were
too young to rear, though they lived three day;
without any nourishment.
Coral”; According to the Torres
Strait natives, the black cockatoo got the red mark
around his bill through attempting to carry to them
fire from the mainland. At first no one on the islands
knew how to make a light, though in one part of the
group they have a yarn about a tribe on Double
Island who produced fire from between the thumb
and forefinger and were all transformed into birds,
animals and fish. Fire was known to exist on the
mainland, however, and all the animals thereabout
had a try at securing a brand from the burning for
the luckless islanders. All failed. Then the birds
had compassion, and the black cockatoo managed to
get some fire half-way across before the cargo got too
hot and was dropped hurriedly. The niggers don’t
seem to know what happened after that, but black
cocky has a vivid remembrance of his share in the
proceedings.
* * * *
“Camelero”: Don’t know who was the
first chap to join the A.1.F., but there’s no trouble
in finding the first horse. When I left Palestine
he was with the 3rd A.L.H. and, to give him his
full name, he was Marcus Aurelius Antonius. He
has seen more service than any prad in the A.I.F.
He went into camp at Albury (N.S.W.),
and from there travelled to Adelaide, where he en-
listed with the 3rd A.L.H. After wandering around
Egypt for a time he embarked for Gallipoli, failed
to make a landing on the peninsula, and was sent
back to Egypt. Since then he has taken part in
the Senussi campaign, and never missed a scrap in
Sinai or Palestine. On one occasion he was the
only horse left out of a group of five when a German
Taube bombed the regiment’s camp at Romani.
That good horse-lover, Col. D. Fulton, late of the
3rd A.L.H., who intends to make his home in
Egypt, will see to it that the old lad never goes
short of a feed.
* * » *
“Willow’ : The cracking of a pipe is
caused by the stem being screwed too tightly into
the bowl. The secretion of moisture combined
with heat does the mischief. If there’s anything
else you’re ignorant about just mention it.
(Continued on page 22.)
SOME WAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I have trudged a scoi;e of miles —
Wet the tracks, and rough to tramp,
Resting, here and there, at whiles—
Since 1 left my last night’s camp ;
Lord, it makes one sick to think
Of the things that might be mine—■
Cakes to eat and ale to drink,
Song and laughter, warmth and wine!
•
The rain pelts down, a leaden sheet,
Making every rut a fount:
Good it is for wool and wheat.
A s for me, I do not count;
That which is is best, they say —-
Grim philosophy, I vow —
Yet I do not say them nay;
Things have got to be somehow.
The storm is moving through the trees,
Winds and swaying limbs at strife;
To rest upon a couch of ease
I’d give a year or two of life —■
Yea, a year and more I’d give
Warmly-housed at ease to lie,
Just to know what ’tis to live,
Blithe of heart and bright of eye.
An old, old dog, a rough, rough road—
True the word. .. .and be it so ;
’Tis little use to curse the load
That Fate lias fixed for weal or woe ;
Comforting it is to heed
What the world’s wiseacres say—
Proof am I of it, indeed—
Things have got to be some' way.
N.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.


Popular Australian Novelists
Represented in the “Bookstall
Series of Australian Novels.
each.
FROM ALL BOOKSTALLS,
BOOKSELLERS , OR DIRECT
FROM THE PUBLISHERS ..
IjU
posted.
The following are onlv n few of the hundred or so volumes in the
Sriei 7Complete Catalogue will be forwarded on request
W FaCt ’" y '” “:
AMB “Tl^Outlaws^^*Wed<iin^ e ßang^’’ Years with Thunderbolt.”
ARTHUR WRlGHT——‘‘Over the °dds£ _ NuggetHoMs^Good!”
‘‘l„ n the Uast°Stride,” “The Sport ‘from Hollo wlog Flat,” “Gamblers’
Gold,” “Rung In,” “A Rogue’s Luck.
JUST PUBLISHED —“The Outlaw’s Daughter.
STEELE RUDD’S FAMOUS SELECTION STORIES.
THOS. E SPENCER’S HUMOROUS BOOKS.
j H . M. ABBOTT— “The Sign of the Serpent,” “Sally—The Tale of a
Currency Lass.”
LOUIS BECKE —“Bully Hayes —Buccaneer,”
Blake.”
DON DELANEY —“A Rebel of the Bush,” 11 ’’ ,ie
Champion,” “The Captain of the Gang,” “For Turon Gold,
‘The Adventures of Louis
BRODA REYNOLDS —“Dawn Asper,’
of the Bush.”
“The Selector Girl,” “The Heart
RANDOLPH BEDFORD—“SiIver
Star.”
E. S. SORENSON —“The Squatter’s
Ward.”
JUST PUBLISHED:
THE CORAL QUEEN”— By Beatrice Grimshaw.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS —“The Knight
of the Motor Launch.”
E. J. BRADY —“Tom Pagdin—
Pirate.”
A. G. STEPHENS —“Bill’s Itlees.”
NORMAN LINDSAY —“A Curate
in Bohemia.”
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL GO. LTD.,
476 George Street, SYDNEY.
TARANTULLE
The Quality Cotton Fabric for Lingerie and Baby-Wear
Jlrj
jSPv
&
w>
Tarantulle lingerie returns time
after time from the laundry as
fresh and shimmering as sun-
shine. Its spotless whiteness
and lasting softness are a boon
to dainty and particular ladies.
Tarantulle is absolutely pure,
and perfectly woven —a delight
equally to the home-needle-
worker and the wearer.
In three weights, 40 inches wide :
providing for every lingerie need.
Standard, Fine, and Superfine.
Always see name on selvedge.
These goods assure satisfaction
in color, wash, and wear. Their
guaranteed quality has made
their popularity world-wide.
Sold by Drapers and Stores.
TOOTAL CLOTH : The Guaranteed
Velvet Fabric, equal to silk velvet for
graceful draping. Rich colors that will not
rub off. In plain and cord, 27 inches w de.
TARANTULLE (Reed.): The quality
Cotton Fabric for Lingerie and Baby-wear.
In three weights^ inches wide.
LISSUE HANDKERCHIEFS (Regd.)
for ladies. Dainty exquisite self-white and
indelib'e color border designs.
PYRAMID HANDKERCHIEFS (Regd.)
for men. Correct self-white and exclus.ve
indelible color bolder designs.
TOBRALCO (Regd.): The Cotton Wash-
dress Fabric in world-wide use. Self-wh te
and indelible colors. 27/28 inches wide.
TOOTAL PIQUE: White and indel ble
colors. 43/44 inches wide.
NAM R IT : The Indelible Voile. In
printed designs and self-colors. 40 inches
wide.
TOOTAL SHIRTINGS for men and
Indelib'e colors. 32 inches wide.
women.
ALL COMMUNICATIONS TO:-
G.P.0., BOX 1035, MELBOURNE.
RST LEE CO. LTD.. MANCHESTER. ENGLAND
TOOTAL BROADHU
Purchase a LEVIATHAN Coat Sweater.
Beats all for Warmth —Wears Well.
The
“TRENCHER.”
Absolutely the best “ALL
PURE WOOL” Sweater in
Australia (as illustration), with
the following distinctive fea-
tures : Silesia-lined Pockets,
Taped Seams, Snug close-titting
Ribbed Cuffs, Collar may be
worn three different ways.
Colors Grey and Heather.
SIZES 36in. 40in. 44in. Chest.
PRICES 25/- 30/- 35/-
V-Front Sweater.
Warm and Comfortable with V Front
(Inset No. 3) or “Peter Pan” Collar (In-
set No. 4). All Pure Wool. Our own
Special Make. Colors Navy or Grey.
SIZES 36in. 40in. Chest.
PRICES 22/6 27/6
Just What You Need.
THE “TRENCHER.”
NOW READY. —New Winter
Illustrated Catalog. Write
for Copy.
: .
Tile All Pure Pur Pelt Hat.
Cut edge, loose-tied bow.
light weight. In Slate or
Grey, with Black contrasting
Band. Also in Black.
THE
HAT
12/6
THE
HAT
Send size of hat usually
SHOP BY POST.
WE. PAY CARRIAGE.
m t*c
Levi atman
Cor. Swanston & Bourke Streets, MELBOURNE
BRITISH-MADE
10-inch
DOUBLE-
SIDED
2/6
EACH
(N.Z. 3/-)
tc
a
10-inch
DOUBLE-
SIDED
2/6
EACH
(N.Z. 3/-)
Some Splendid Double-sided
REGAL Records at 2/6 each.
6867
\ Here We
1 March: ‘
Are Again
'Now, Are We All Here?”
King’s Military Band
King’s Military Band
6885
King’s Military Band
King’s Military Band
jTo Arms, March
I Johnny O’Morgan, March
7182
Silver Stars Band
Silver Stars Band
{ X9IC Pantomime Hits, Part 1
( 1916 Pantomime Hits, Part 2
7224
IJand of H.M. Scots Guards
Hand of H.M. Scots Guards
J 1916 Pantomime Hits, Part 3
( 1916 Pantomime Hits, Part 4
6874
\ Jerry Jinks Scallywag, Part 1
( Jerry Jinks, Scallywag, Part 2
Descriptive
Descriptive
6883
( Departure of Australian Troops for Front
( Arrival of Australian Troops in Egypt . . .
Descriptive
Descriptive
6930
( “Rosy Rapture” Selections, Part 1
l “Rosy Rapture” Selections, Part ~
Regal
Regal
Orchestra
Orchestra
7218
Descriptive
Descriptive
t The Village Wedding
( Waiting for the Early Doors
7269
j What You’ve Never Had . .
| Great Big Wonderful Baby
F. W. Ramsey,
F. W. Ramsey,
baritone
baritone
7217
Jack Norworth
Jack Norworth
( Private Michael Cassidy, Part 1
( Private Michael Cassidy, Part 2
6939
.. Walter
( The Modest Curate Walter
1 Wondering Willie
Walters
Walters
6925
Harrison Latimer, baritone
William Thomas, tenor
f The Four-foot-ten Brigade
l The Constant Lover
6888
Stanley Kirkby, baritone
F. \V. Ramsey, baritone
\ Patriotic Patrick Multioon .
t Sing a Song About a Sailor
6847
6517
f Are We Downhearted? No
| Bravo Territorials
Harrison Latimer,
Harrison Latimer,
baritone
baritone
6809
f The Lads in Navy Blue
) We Didn’t Want to Fight
Harrison Latimer, baritone
.. Stanley Kirkby, baritone
6910
, , r raiii iir Robert Adams, tenor
1 Somewhere a Voice is Calling Robert Adams, tenor
( Sleep and the Roses
6745
( The Sunshine of Your Smile
| The Woman Thou Gavest 51e
William Tliomas. tenor
. Robert Adams, tenor
WHOLESALE AGfiNTS FOR “REGAL" RECORDS-
x S W —Grafonola. Ltd., Daking House, Rawson Place.
KuBNE VIC, and TASMANIA.-Mesrrs. Hugo Wertheim Pty.,
LM m Williai. Street. Melbourne.
kr,SHANK Q.— King and King, Ltd.. Queen Street.
AnFTUDE S.A.—Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pine Street.
WA-H R. Firth, Royal Arcade.
NZ—Arthur H. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street.
N.Z.— Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
N.Z.— Webley Sons & Gofton, Ltd., 243 High Street,
DCNBDIN, N Z.-Webley Sons & Gofton, Ltd.
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.


IV. O O FIN G TIL E S
Wunderlich Marseilles Pattern Terra-Cotta Tiles.
The Artistic, Durable Roofing that maintains its normal standard of quality
under all climatic conditions.
For Home-building there is no better roofing than the product of Wunderlich
Tileries - the all-Australian-made Terra-Cotta Tiles.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED,
Head Office: Baptist Street, Redfern, N.S.W. Postal Address: Box 474 G.P.0., Sydney.
56 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
243 Collins St.,
MELBOURNE.
113-119 Currie St M
ADELAIDE.
Lord St.,
PERTH.
Amelia St.,
BRISBANE.
Macquarie St.,
HOBART.
St. John St.,
LAUNCESTON.
“Veronal” : Don’t, know whether it’s been
given a fair show or not, but the Australian skate
(of which there are three species) should be at least
as good as fiddler, of which Horace Wheelwright (the
“Old Bushman”) said, with the “help of a bottle of
BurgesTs anchovy sauce, could not be distinguished
from skate.” Horace, who was an expert in queer
foods —including kangaroo hams, snake, wallaby meat
and white grubs, referred to the European skate, but
there is no reason why its brother of the Australian
brine ponds shouldn’t fill the bill. Both fiddler and
skate belong to the ray family—including the giant
stingray, weighing several hundredweight, and with
the spine-studded tail of which brown brother of the
South Seas is said ‘to correct his missus on occasion.
Some time ago shark menus were published under the
auspices of Stead. If it comes to shark, give me the
bullhead (Port Jackson shark), the flesh of which
isn’t as coarse and tough as that of the blue-pointer
and grey-nurse. All the same, I prefer man-flesh.
“Seedee”: Anyone with a rifle and a liking
for quickly-earned cash ought to go kangaroo-shoot-
ing out Walgett (N.S.W.) way for a few weeks. A
couple of men, who got permission recently to hunt
’roos on a big station, secured 300 in a fortnight.
The skins realised about ss. each in the Sydney
market, and the expenses of the trip were small.
Their refilled cartridges cost only about 3s. a
hundred.
THE RULING PASSION.
THE SQUATTER: “My son got his commission
in the last lot of fighting.”
THE DEALER: “How much did they allow
him?”
“Kirri”: “D.F.” (B. 8/5/T9) suggests
that the net found by Flinders, in 1799, was used
by black brother to catch dugong. According to
Tom Petrie, famous in the North, dugong nets were
made from cord from the inside bark of a
scrub vine (Malasia tortuso ) sewn up in the shape
of huge pockets. To get the bark the natives cut
the vine in lengths and beat it well with sticks
until the bark could be pulled off with the teeth.
They soaked this in water for several days; the
rough outer bark then came away, and with their
thumb-nails the men split the inner bark into fibre.
This was dried and twisted on their thighs into
string.
NOTHING DOING.
THE KID: “Hi, me ole woman says if you’ll put a catch in this umbrella she’ll give you
a zac.”
THE MECHANIC: “No charnce! It cost me more’n that to erect the machinery.”
“Sapit”: Anybody got an explanation as
to the relationship between rabbit-poisoning and
blowflies? The usual theory is that the blowfly
comes from the dead rabbit to the sheep, but care-
ful examination of the occurrence of these two
pests during the last six years shows that whenever
rabbit-poisoning is general in the country the blow-
fly trouble ceases, and the blowfly curse is only
acute in years when there is practically no rabbit-
poisoning.
* * * *
“Myall”; Has any Abo. seen a litter of
dingo puppies during the summer or autumn
months of the year ? I have met bushmen who
assert that mother dingo differs from her domesti-
cated relation in this respect, as the outlaw only
whelps in the winter. Whether she seeks the
seclusion of her favorite log at one particular period,
or at any old time, the dingo is increasing in
Queensland at an alarming rate, despite the fact
that scalps are now worth a pound a piece, and I
know of instances of five (and in one case eight)
pounds being offered for single scalps.
“Gouger” : In isolated parts of N.Q. there
grows a rather pretty white-barked tree, close to
waterholes or river-banks. The leaves
of this plant fall into the water and,
where the trees grow in sufficient pro-
fusion, discolor it a dirty red. To
drink this water means violent pains in
the stomach. Even running water is
poisoned by the leaves. When cut
with an axe, a white, milky sap comes
from the tree, and if it gets in a man’s
eye it will blind him straight away.
The eyeball turns white. Now-, the
Japanese beche-de-mer fishermen have
the name of cruelly treating their black-
boy crews while at sea. Also, they stay
on the reefs for months at a time on
starvation rations, coming into port as
seldom as possible. A goodly number of
blackboys have got into the habit of
taking on board the cutters a bottle of
carefully-concealed sap from this tree.
If the crew is being badly used or the
cutter has been kept at sea too long, the
Japs on board find themselves suddenly
taken with violent dysentery. The
blackboys generally put the milky-white
stuff into a tin of condensed milk. (The
blackboys themselves never get condensed
milk.) The sap is quite tasteless. Out-
side of a hospital there is only one cure
for this dysentery. That is to grind up
the inside of a dry cocoarmt very fine,
and strain through muslin. A little white
milk is the result. Drink this milk.
It is an instant cure. To eat or drink
too much of this sap means a nasty
death, and blackboys are notoriously bad hands at
measuring anything, unless it’s a yam.
» * * *
“Toby C.” : Know the virtues of the Dago
bunk ? This sleeping apparatus is of simple con-
struction, more substantial and more comfortable
than the old-time saggy and uneven pole-and-bag
contraption which has caused more aching backs and
cramps than healthy bush-work has ever done. The
Dago bunk is constructed as follows: four forked
corner-posts, two cross-bars (foot and head), two
substantial side poles, and then a few light, springy
poles between. Cover these with ferns, grass, leaves,
vour wardrobe and the morning paper, and you
have a bed fit to hold the Sleeping Princess. Eight
hours on the “banjo,” a good blow-out of corn-beef
and duff, followed by a few pipesful of good black
weed, an hour’s yarn on the political iniquities of
the State, and your toiler needs no artificial aid to
slumber. He just pulls the old bluey over, and night
is one long, loud snore.
“FY7” : “loni’s” notification (B. 8/5/’l9)
that tree-climbing snakes are not venomous is worth
ignoring. Most Australian poisonous snakes can, and
do, climb trees, notably the brown. Never beard of
the adder going aloft, but a nestling- or an egg-
breakfast tempts the rest of the family upstairs.
“Boxthorn”: S. Aus. farmers can easily
kill African boxthorn by spraying with a mixture
called “Cactusene.” Within a month after applica-
tion the pest can be burnt or left as a breakwind.
* * * *
“Melos” : The N. S. Wales Birds and Ani-
mals Protection Act, in so far as it applies to our
birds, is not satisfactory by any means. Boiled
down it amounts to this: certain birds have been
classified as pests and others as desirables, without
due consideration of the fact that what are destruc-
tive in one part of the country-
may be of service in another.
The unprotected are in danger of
extermination, and, should this
occur, we shall have a situation
similar to that which faged a
certain district in France after
the rook had been banished
from that part, viz., a huge
army of noxious insects that
made the agriculturist’s life
such a burden that fresh rooks
had to be imported. How to
successfully raise a crop without
being rude to the bird that
disputes possession is a tough
problem; but I believe that it
can be solved by training the
hawk or falcon to act as guar-
dian of our property. All that
is necessary to make this idea
popular is to introduce falconry.
This sport was common in the
older countries; and there are
at present many estates in Eng-
land and Scotland whereon the
falcon is systematically trained.
The bird is taught to surrender
its prey and to return at the
master’s call; and, despite its
uncouth native manner, the
pupil soon learns what is re-
quired of it and becomes docile
and reliable. To produce a
bird-scarer, the training would
be much more simple. The par-
tially-disabled Billjim might
find the drilling of the hawk or falcon a profitable
and an interesting occupation.
“Henare” (who is r-esiding at the Hotel
Australia) :—■
To the Editor Bulletin,—l terra you or apout te
fissing. Iko te teatide brace Manly. I ket one rine
and two hooks and te newtpaper. I trow te rine out.
Te fish he nefa kum, so I rook te paper and see
where te Japan mans say Bill Hughes he petter
make all te world white. Py Kri’, I t’ink I ko sreep.
I see te kolten tairs and Billy Hughes and te Yankey
mans Wilton. He carried te pig pag. He Billy
Hughes treasure. He take te money for te partaport
and put him in te pag. T’ey both krim up te kolten
tairs. I ko too, and have a rook what he toing.
When te two mans ket te top te kolten tairs, Billy
hit te tcor werry hart, and Peter kum. He te goot-
rooking rangitira. I think he te Maori. When Peter
see te boss te white world, and te boss te Reague
Nations, he open te toor werry wide. Billy and
Wilton tep intide. Peter tay: ‘"‘Billy, wha’ for you
kum here ?” Billy tay: “I kum make te world
wlute; Heaven, too, so I tart here firs’.” Peter tay
him: “Te more petter way to make ’em colored,
pecause only a few white mans here—Bobby Burns,
Poketafe and a few more mans. And I werry krad
if you make ’em colored.” Billy ta_v: “Peter, you
s’ut up. I te boss man here now ; and my Treasure,
Wilton, he te dollar man, he take te utu and put
him in his bag.” Peter cry werry much. He sorry
for te colored angels. Billy s’oiit out very lowd":
“All colored angels kum t’is way—Japan mans firt.
I fraid if 1 tone wash him quick he might take Aus-
tralia!” Te Maori kum, too. When t’ousands and
t’ousands Maori kum 1 see plenty rangitira—Hone
Heke, Titikowaru, Rewi Maniapoto (not te race-
horse), and a lot more. I t’ink 1 see Timi
Carroll, but I make te mittak. Rewi kum
firt ; Billy tay Wilton: “You kiff Rewi te
partaport.” Wilton tay: “Righto, Billy.” He tay
Rewi: “You peen to America?” “No, tone rike it.”
“Where your father born?” “Nieu Terene.” “Your
father a male?” “Yes; you t’ink him te ole
woman?” Wilton write him te partaport and tay:
“Rewi, you kiff me te four tollars.” Rewi ask him
wha’ for. Wilton tay t’at te return partaport and te
Australian washing-bill, when Billy Hughes makey
you white. Rewi tay: “I tone rike it. I rike my
own own color, te best color.” Billy Hughes kum
along and tole Rewi to pe washed white all te same
as te whitewash on te wall. Rewi want to fight te
kow. T’en I turn round and I see te Teffel krimin’
up te kolte.n tairs. He te koot-rookin’ ferrar, too.
When I rook him I t’ink beauty only kin-teep. When
I rook Billy, I t’ink ugliness ko to te bone. Te
Teffel he well-dressed—ret-plush jacket and short
trou’, lcolten puttons, pair Tidrey poots with rubber-
heels, tilk tokings and te Scotch cap. He te prurry
pig pug, I terra you. He kot te fork in te ha.n’. I
keep prurry quiet. He tone rook at me. He smile
and he rook at Billy, and he ket kroser ami kroser.
Billy tone Bee him —he pizzy talking to te colored
angels and rooking te other way; and Wilton he
werry pizzy. His pag nearly full tollars. He rook
werry happy taking orl te utu. Rewi he won’t pay
Wilton, and te Teffel he ket kroser and kroser to
Billy Hughes. Te Teffel he jess koin’ to tick te fork
into te fat part Billy. T’en I woke up. I werra
sorry I woke up, pecause I want to see tee fun, and
measure how far Billy jump. I werry try now, so I
ket te rong peer.
“Abermain”: The hand, from Cowville,
having decided to try his luck at pit work, turned
up for the day shift minus a pit lamp. “Don't
you want a light, mate?” inquired someone. “Oh,
it doesn’t matter thanks,” replied Greenhorn, “I’ll
be up before dark.”
* * * *
“Frank Reid” : Here’s another native tra-
dition from the Reef Islands. Long ago the sun and
moon always went together in the daytime. Eventu-
MATILDA MANSIONS.
NEW ARRIVAL: “ And where is your home?”
SWAGGIE: “’Struth, it’s always with me!”
ally the sun decided that if they always travelled
like that the earth would become very hot and all
vegetation would die. So it came to pass, as they
drew near a marsh, the sun crossed over before the
moon. But the sun deceived the moon, saying that
he had crossed over on the branch of a tree. The
moon tried it, too; but the branch was rotten and
she fell into the marsh and was covered with mud.
She partly washed herself, but the sun had already
gone a great distance ahead. She has not finished
washing yet, but she is still trying to catch up to
the sun so that they can walk together as at first.
WEEDS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When Crowther settled on his land
The trees grew tall and wide,
Ar.d everywhere a tangled band
. Of scrub things strove to hide
Each foot of soil from Crowther’s view.
From daybreak till the night
He strove with these, and green and true
His little springing orchard grew,
A trophy from the fight.
But still it seemed if he but turned
The scrub came leaping back.
He cut and dug, great fires he burned,
To keep a little track ;
And when he slept upon his bed
He felt them surging round,
The scrub imps green, and grey, and red,
All fiercely seeking o’er his head
To climb and hold him bound.
But in the morn, with courage grim,
He met them face to face,
Though oftentimes it seemed to him
He might not hold the place.
He had a sickness. While he lay
The jubilating weeds
Swarmed back. They climbed about the dray,
And clutched his house to hide away
The man’s audacious deeds.
Now in his visions he could see
Ilis foes like devils ride.
“God keep me from the*weeds!” said he
The morning that he died.
The scrub stands horse-high on his soil.
I sought him out one day,
And deep beneath a clinging broil
Of weed and sapling with his toil
His bones are hid away.
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


a
i
t
A
tMIRALIJ.
NCt.
ADVA
THE MAKING OF A NATION
AUSTRALIAN AWAKENING
Oar Manhood by their valour in the war arena opened the eyes of the World to the fact that Australia is a
Nation worthy of respect, and one destined to rank with the foremost. Australia has thrown aside her swaddlm a
clolhes, and made her debut-a Nation with a future-and a reputation to live up to.
How Is Australia Going To Do It ?
Throw its markets open to products made by foreign workmen in all parts of the World ? or do as America dld ?
_Erect a tariff wall, and become a Manufacturing Nation, a self-contained Country with employment for all.
Australia has the resources, it has the men-build up its manufactures-the population will follow.
AUSTRALIA MILLIONS MORE POPULATION FOR ITS DEVELOPMENT
The time has come when every essential that can be made here should be given preference over the imported
article, and in this direction everyone can and should help.
Take the Rubber Industry:
Hundreds of thousands of pounds worth of rubber goods come into this Country annually, manufactured ail ides
that can be made here equal in every respect to the best that can be imported. These goods could and should
be made in this Country with Australian capital and by Australian workmen. Thousands more hands could be
given permanent employment if Australians will only pass the imported article and specify and obtain in their
pile" “ Dunlop” branded goods. In Australia the name “ Dunlop” stands for the highest quality and best value
in all the rubber manufactures essential in our homes or our industries. We do an enormous business, employing
over 2,500 hands in making and selling, and paying over £250,000 annually in wages.
We do not take advantage of tariff duties,
our prices being based on cost of production,
the public being charged a fair price, and given value at a figure that the imported article does not approach.
Here is one industry that YOU can help build up, and there are dozens more Australians-WAKE UP! Every
buyer of Australian products helps materially in building up a Nation worthy of Australia a Country capable
of supplying its own needs, of employing its own citizens, a land of prosperity WILL YOU
DUNLOP GOODS comprise everything made in rubber, the leading lines being—
Motor Tyres
(Pneumatic and Solid)
Cycle Tyres
Vehicle Tyres
Tennis Balls
Ebonite Goods
Rubber Heels <S Soles
Mining Goods
Sporting Goods
Plumbers’ Goods
Engineering Requisites
Conveyor Belts
Driving Belts
Waterproof Garments
Inlaid Matting, etc.
Hoses—Garden,
Engineering, etc.
Mil King Machine Requisites
These goods are obtainable through all leading Agents, Stores, etc. Price lists on application. Tenders submitted.
Correspondence invited.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. OF AUST. LTD.
(Founders of the Pneumatic Tyre Industry)
All States and N.Z.
Dunlop R uß L dr g es f \ n 5 0 uHiern Hemisphere.


Remarkable Low Fuel Cost!
Fairbanks-morse type z engine
shears 15,000 sheep at a fuel cost of
ONE-FIFTH OF A PENNY PER SHEEP.
HERE ARE THE FACTS FOR YOU.
K
EROSENE is the cheapest farm-engine fuel you can buy, and the Type Z Fairbanks-Morse
witn greater success than any other farm engine ever offered.
uses it
m
;
m
More than rated horsepower—
A wonder at the price.
Portable and Stationary Types in I£, 3,6, 10 and 15
B.H.P. Has built-in Magneto, the most reliable and
effective Ignition ever provided in a farm engine.
Throttling-type Governor guarantees smooth running
under all loads without jibbing. Has built-in, Water-
cooling Hopper that is compact and efficient.
The Type Z solves the problem of using kerosene without
unduly fouling the valves and plugs, and it has also reduced
fuel cost to a fraction. No wonder then that thousands of
users are unanimous that the Type Z Fairbanks=Morse
Engine is a wonder at the price.
Mr Fergus Leonard, of Combaning Siding, via Temora, N.S.W., operates a
2-stand Lister” Shearing Plant, with a Type Z Fairbanks Morse Kerosene Engine
Writing on 30/12/’lB, he says:—The whole outfit is in our opinion a very rehable
and satisfactory job. The engine works on kerosene and is very economical; we used
less than 13 cases of kerosene in shearing the 15,000 sheep.”
Whatever the work—pumping, sawing, feed grinding or any of the usual farm
jobs—you want them done at lowest cost. Type Z Fairbanks Morse Engine is the
logical engine for you, because it combines every practical advantage for continuous
low-cost farm work. It uses kerosene—the cheapest fuel obtainable—and uses it
without giving trouble. It starts easily under all conditions, and keeps hard at work
year after year. Continuous service is the reason why the Type Z Fairbanks Morse
is continually spoken of by farmers as “a wonder at the price.”
Wr„e «>, special Type Z Bnpiac,
Dangar, Gedye & Co. Ltd., 9-13 Young St., Sydney.
J. Bart ram & Son Pty. Ltd., 586-588 Bourke Street
Melbourne. ’
Winchcombe, Carson Ltd., 99 Eagle St., Brisbane.
Jas. Wardle & Co., Victoria Square West, Adelaide.
Malloch Bros., 52-54 William Street, Perth.
A. G. Webster & Sons Ltd., Hobart.
They conduct an upright though occasionally profane
existence in France for a while, and in the last three
lines of the book they get into action. They rise
“like a wave gathering on a beach” and rush right
off the page. A pleasant sort of book with quaint
illustrations. (John Lane, London.)
E. George Marks, of the Sydney Sun staff,
who has written more about Napoleon than any
living Australian, adhered throughout the war to the
conviction that a decision favorable to the Allies
would be gained on the Western Front with unity of
command and a vigorous and sustained offensive
based on Napoleonic strategy, has put his views in
book bulk. He says that Foch, steeped in Napoleonic
lore, and the direct heir of the Napoleonic tradition,
was on March 27 last year entrusted with unity of
command, and he then electrified the world with a
series of amazing victories, ending in the armistice
of November 11, 1918, and the defeat of the Germans.
Two weeks after that momentous event the book was
launched, How Foch Makes War. It explained
the strategic principles which had guided Foch to
victory. Several books have since been issued in
France and London on Foeh's strategy, all of which
now discover that the great soldier applied no other
principles than those which made Napoleon a great
captain of war. When General Pau was in Aus-
tralia he sent to George Marks a letter in which he
stated that he had handed a copy of the book to his
old comrade-in-arms, Marshal Foch. Foch has for-
warded to Marks his congratulations. By the same
post Marks received President Poincare’s apprecia-
tions.
The first of two volumes of The History of Zion-
ism, by Nahum Sokolow, is to hand. It is a clever,
exhaustive end enthusiastic story of the movement,
now centuries old, for the restoration of the Hebrew
kingdom, and those who want the Hebrew kingdom
restored will find it illuminating. Whether one
wishes the Jews well or ill, the fact remains that,
through no fault of their own, they have been a
widely-published element in history. The Curse of
Nebuchadnezzar should be read at every morning ser-
vice, because that monarch was the Babylon-
ian Nark who first tried his hand at dis-
persing the folk of Judah; and the Curse of
Titus should be read at evening service, because
Titus was the Roman Nark who started a second
dispersion. But for these two Narks Judah might
have remained a small people at the old spot, not
travelling much, because the Hebrews were no sea-
men, and because they didn’t want to get far away
from their Temple, it being to them what the queen
bee is to the hive, but without her portability ; and
they wouldn’t have increased much, because their
land was small and poor. All the Zionism in the
world won’t undo the foolishness of Nebuchadnezzar,
and there is no gain in weeping over spilt kings.
Still, there is a sort of satisfaction in denouncing
their bones. Zionism is a fascinating subject, because
of the illimitable courage, patience and industry of
the ant-like race which was brought into the lime-
light when Nabopolassar’s son put his foot in it and
began the process of changing its parish politics into
a world story. The present volume is decorated with
/3 portraits, including LI rabbis, and there isn’t a
foolish-looking Jew in the crowd ; nor is there a
tinplate of Nebuchadnezzar eating glass, as was
reported about him, and which may have been
merely a rumor. (Longman and Co.,‘ London.)
The shaking up of the old order by the war has
moved every theorist who can find space in the
pi ess, or can get his book published, at his own
expense or otherwise, to explain how the world ought
to shake down again. One of the shakers is Arthur
•T. Penty, who supplies Guilds and the Social Crisis.
He has a good deal to say about Neo-Marxians and
Guild Socialists, also something about Fabians.
Meanwhile, the world struggles along somehow, and
is generally to be found at the old address. (G Allen
and Unwin, London.)
Strange Tales from the Fleet, by “Etienne,” are
17 in number. One of them is distinctly strange.
Three may be set down as amusing; some of the rest
are tales ; of one or two it can only be surmised that
they are from the fleet because that institution
wanted to get rid of them. Still they have an atmo-
sphere about them which is better than not having
anything. (Methuen and Co., London.)
The Third Book of Artemas was probably written
by Artemas, for it seems hardly likely that anyone
else would take the trouble. The little volume is an
account, in semi-Biblical phrase, of the end of the
war and the complications which followed. It isn't
utterly desolate, for there are streaks of humor in it,
and also streaks of wisdom. But, as was said of the
Stuart dynasty, it leads nowhere in particular. (IV.
Westall and Co., London.)
“Tommy’s Tunes,” by Second-lieutenant F. T.
Nettleingham, R.F.C., is a great war-souvenir. He
has collected British Army songs from all parts of
the fighting zone. One sample:—
We are the only heroes
Who stormed the Dardanelles,
And when we get to Berlin
They’ll say, “What bally sells,”
You boast and skite irom morn till night,
And think you’re very brave,
But the men who really did the job
Are dead and in their grave.
The Inky Way
The latest economy of Webster or liis
minions is to write press telegrams on both
sides of the paper. The busy subs pray for
the P.M.G. every night now.
Syd Pratt, who secured the job of general
secretary of the A.J.A., in succession to
Brickhill, by a narrow majority, has been
autocrat of the South Australia District
of the Association for several years. He
was the industrial roundsman for the Adel-
aide Daily Herald. Age, 33.
“J. 8.5.”: Brunswick and Coburg
Leader (Vic.) shows that there is still cour-
tesy on the Inky Way:—
A lady was charged with breaking a window at
the residence of her father-in-law. A long list of
convictions for drunk and disorderly and obscene
language, was put in, and defendant, after a caution
was fined 10s. with £1 damages.
It is rumored that the editor always raises
Ins hat when he writes the word “mother.”
Adelaide has a new 3d. weekly, the
Sporting Index, published by the Vardon
ofhee. The most remarkable feature of it
is tlm shape. The first number is a 04-page
booklet of handy pocket S size, much resem-
bling the usual patent-medicine advertising
pamphlet. It is crammed with notes and
photos on all sporting subjects and apolo-
gises for not being able to get anything in
about theatres and pictures, with which it
proposes to deal regularly in future.
I rederick Palmer, formerly war corres-
pondent, latterly Lieut.-Colonel in the Ameri-
can forces in Europe, distinguishes, in his
new book, between the other English-speak-
ing Allies:—
Canadians, who live only across the border
from us, seemed like ourselves. Oversea cosmopoli-
tanism put us immediately in touch with the Aus-
tralians, the true cosmopolitans among the Allies
being the oversea troops; they have travelled. We
were as different from the British as climate, associa-
tions and the melting-pot were bound to make us...
As one of our men said, “It’s at the British front
that you do need an interpreter. At the French front
you gesture” How on earth could English soldiers,
speaking our language, take tea for breakfast instead
ot coffee? And tea in the afternoon? And eat such
quantities of cheese? As for the Scots, our men
called them “Sisters.” We got on well with the
Scot. The burr of the man in kilts held every
American soldier under a spell.
Business, Bobbery, etc.
“Henry Horseeollar” : A regular air goods-'
service has been installed between England
and France, and half-ton loads are carried
with ease. This means that pianos, libra-
ries and things of the sort can fly from one
country to another without transhipment.
In fact, the entire baggage of a small house-
hold might be in London in the morning and
Stockholm or Home in the evening per one
vehicle if a midsummer day was selected
for flitting. Expansion to five- or ten-ton
loads is merely a matter of bigger machines,
and they would carry almost anything.
Wonderfully few articles weigh more than
10 tons.. There is a superstition born of
the train and ship habit that economy
requires the dragging of 100 or 400 tons at
a time. It doesn’t follow. A one-ton or
five-ton vehicle which would load up where
the goods are grown, even if it is 100 roadless
miles from a railway, and go straight to the
buyer’s door, could charge high rates and still
give cheap service, especially for long-
distance traffic. It is a matter of getting
rid of the big load and accumulation fetich —
the idea that a cwt. of something shouldn’t
go anywhere unless for some part of the
journey there are three tons of something
else on top of it.
TJ-IV’: Duivng the war foreign countries
have had to procure alcohol in large quanti-
ties for use in the manufacture of high ex-
plosives and for other purposes. One conse-
quence is that synthetic alcohol is being sold
m Germany at 9d. per gallon ; and the Com-
monwealth will have to look out. or this stuff
will come in as brandy, whisky or gin. All
the chemists have to do to make brandy from
this crude spirit is to add certain ethers and
aldehydes found in pure brandy or whisky,
and flavor it to suit the public palate. If
permitted to enter the Commonwealth it will
lay waste the distilling industry of Australia.
“D.F.”: Sandalwood-getting in the Fijis
was better than company-promoting, accord-
mg to a report made in 1808 by Robert
Campbell, some-time naval officer at the
group. He figured that “trade” (mostly old
iron made up into axes,- chisels, nails,
beads and odds and ends) to the value of
£2OO would buy 130 tons of sandalwood,
worth from £6500 to £9lOO in Sydney. Get-
ting one cargo in six months, Campbell esti-
mated that an investment of £3354 would
give a net profit of £4345. The value of
a vessel fitted for sea he put at £2OOO. and
he allowed £SOO for depreciation, loss of
material and so on. The wages for a crew
of 20 he set down at £lOO a month, plus
tucker and spirits at less than £7O a month.
“Arthur R.” : A new industry which Aus-
tralia is making a big effort to retain is the
manufacture of dry-battery cells. Before
the war Germany supplied most of our needs
in this direction, and, later, Japan tried
to capture the trade; but the Australian-
made has proved equal to, and in many cases
better than, the imported battery, and the
price is much lower.
* * * *
“Q. Kumba” : I was a military reject (five
times), but. feeling that I must do something,
eventually left my job to join the guard at
Holdsworthy Concentration Camp. Now I
want work, and when I apply for a place I’m
asked, “Returned soldier?” “No,” I reply ;
“discharged medically unfit; not due to mis-
conduct, from Home Defence.” Then the
air gets chilly and a polite office-boy shows
the easiest way to the street. You’ve onlv
to mention Home Service and your name’s
Mud. Why? Surely we are more entitled
to consideration than the shirker; yet the
shirker has some chance.
* * * *
“M.8.R.”: Roma (Q.) was worried lately
when many home fences were found to have
“X.P.” chalked on them. Some people said
it indicated a plague outbreak. The police
investigated and found that two returned sol-
diers had canvassed the town in partnership.
One went a day ahead and sold pictures,
putting a chalk “P” on the fence of any
houses where he made a sale. The other
partner followed with frames to fit the pic-
tures, and he added an “X” where he struck
buyers. Roma is now waiting for the third
soldier with the .wire and hangers.
* * * *
South Australia is building a railway car
(Sit. Gin. long wholly made of Australian
timber. The under frames and bogies are
also to be constructed locally. The coach
and service will be self-contained, including
kitchen, bathroom and other offices, enabling
the vehicle to travel at the rear of the brake-
van, which will ensure an uninterrupted
view. It is expected to be completed in
about four months, and will be the most up-
to-date car in Australia.
“Sapphira” : For years I’ve been wonder-
ing where Ananias had got to. Now I’m
on his track. He must have contributed the
recent paragraph about the Tasmanian Gov-
ernment offering a reward of £2OO for a sure
eradicator for blackberry. The Tasmanian
Agricultural and Stock Department knows
nothing about it, and various bush inventors
and patent-agents are gnashing their type-
writers in protest.
* * * *
“H. Truth”: Old Paddock ’phoned the
following message for transmission:
Your lambs arrived O.K. Fair tvne. Can you
supply more? ' ' J
The new telephonist, a girl just from school,
duly copied the message, and this is what
the addressee got:
Four lambs arrived O.K. Air tight. Can you
supply more? J
THE FISHERMAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh, I will go down to the sea again,
To the sea that broke my heart ;
I will drag my feet to the uttermost beach,
And say my lonely part.
And this I will say to God and all,
To the Near and the Outer Main:
“Ye took my mate and ye drownded him—
Now, gimme my boat again.”
X.S.W.
JOHN BAKU.


.JH
tf. ,pvmm\? i,wwwii^
■
■■f^l
1 i
i.
:
. •' ;.; ' : Ggl:
i;S% , N
■
w
m
■
R 8
m
•••• - ■ .
.1-. < :
; gigS
.
- eg
.
hi
...
m
Y,;
H
-•■•••;
H
Skelton E
T\/7ASSAGE is a French word derived from a Greek word
Ml
meaning “to knead,” “to press,” and is commonly used as
meaning friction rolling, kneading and manipulation performed
on the tissues of the body in a variety of ways with the object of
improving the circulation of the blood and general stimulation.
Eminent physicians now employ and recommend massage for
treating many common diseases.
The SHELTON ELECTRIC VIBRATOR is designed
especially for massaging purposes, arid is a neat and compact
machine, simple in construction, few small parts, no weak points,
and nothing to break or easily get out of order.
We can furnish SHELTON VIBRATORS to operate on any
Electric Lighting Circuit or built for dry cell, or storage battery use.
\ ; : j y T'c
) v , •' ,
Call and inspect or write for further particulars.
▲
WENTWORTH AY SYDNEY, C? OF QUEEN & LITTLE COLLINS ST MELBOURNE.


Ol'Stj
BM"'
vikcbcoxbe CJBSOI
(or Site
ITi-
The Enemy in Sight.
High Prices for Skins. If that’s
what you want, consign Rabbit,
Fox and all other skins to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
BALESMEN ONLY, LTD.
Sydney OR Brisbane.
N
NATIONAI
MOTOR OILS
Forthe
Farm
Engine
National Oils enable the
farmer to draw from his
farm engine the maximum of
smooth-running, consistent
power. Being highly refined
they give a cleanly flow and
possess wonderful resistance
against friction heat.
OBTAINABLE ALL GARAGES
AND STOREKEEPERS
in 1-gallon Tins, 4-gallon Tins
and Barrels. Ask also for
National Motor Greases.
NATIONAL OIL CO. LTD.,
4 Bridge Street, Bydney.
JAMES WARDLE & 00., Adelaide.
THE GREAT BRITISH
RHEUMATIC REMEDY.
GOUT w
AND RHEUMATIC PILLS
The Famous Medicine that relieves
R I IIMATISM, G UT, LUMBAGO, SCIATICA,
The Great Discovery of the Age.
Purely Vegetable. Sure and Safe.
All Drug Stores. English price, 1/3 and 31-
Prout & Co., 229, Strand, London.
ON A LINER, A YACHT,
MOTOR BOAT, A CHANNEL
STEAMER, A COASTER or
A TRADER
MOTHERSILLS SEASICK REMEDY
is guaranteed to prevent and cure Sea Sick-
ness, or money refunded. Equally effective
for Train Sickness.
has been tested on the English Channel, Irish
an 1 Baltic Seas by representatives of leadm
London and Continental newspapers, who
unreservedly endorse its unfailing power to
prevent and cure mal-de-mer.
“The London Yachting World” says: A posi-
‘Jye cure for sea-sickness. Be sure it's “Mothersill s.
No Bad After Effects.
41l Chemists, in Large and Small Boxes.
MOTHERSILL REMEDY CO., LTD.,
Corner Clarence & Market Sts.. Sydney.
Electrical Wiremen
and Contractors.
Ask Your Supply House for
“Expanse” Conduit Fittings
I" Tees Elbows
Couplings
MALLEABLE GRIP FITTINGS EQUAL TO
THE BEST IMPORTED.
MANUFACTURED BY
THE AUSTRALECTRIC COMPANY,
97 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Telegrams: EXPANSE, SYDNEY. ’Phones: %l s £\ CITY.
ZINC
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
SHAS^
brand
HIGH-GRADE ZINC DUST
Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc.
Containing about 98.75% Metallic
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various grades.
Zinc.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTION'S^
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited,
“ Collins House,”
Sydney Agent.
R. N. KIRK, 25 O’Connell Street.
360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Adelaide Agent:
A W LEWIS, 62 Brookman Buildinge.
ritisH'
The A 1
rd
LIGHT CAR
Absolute simplicity longest
mileage for minimum petrol
consumption. Easy to start.
The ideal car for the Owner
Driver.
Send your enquiry for early delivery
of post-war moM to—
I. PHIZACKERLEY,
168-171 Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY.
Standard Meter Co.
Ltd., Coventry.
I
"'''/Hrtrrff/Atftvf/.
n
m
m
m
9$
6Q
THE
L
k
mi
-
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
... . 7 r’^/Aiiin7 Rn/nh nf Australasia Limitt
With which is amalgamated the Colonial Bank of AustMa
head office: Collins Street, Melbourne. estabu.o
" . _ ner nnn AAA TlTronirtr
Authorised Capital
Capital paid up
Reserve Fund
Reserve ot
Proprietors
£1,945,300
1,040,000
£2,985,300
796,608
.£5,000,000
Directors : —SIR JOHN GRICE, Chairman
EDWARD TRENCHARD, Esq., It ce-Chairm*.:
J. NEWMAN BARKER, Esq.
Hon. F. G. CLARKE, M.L C E , O
BOWES KELLY, Esq H. M. STRACHAN, .
Chief Manager: E. . H WILSON.
£3 781908 Deputy Chief Manager. JAMEs nc;i}oliY r
6O Pit.
. ® . «r> .i. s_ ..4L A cf rail Q WpßtP.m
LONDON OFFICE: 5 B shopsgate, E.C. ■
“Willie Woodbine”: How’s this for a
narrow escape? While we were spelling at
M6aulte (Somme) one of Fritz’s ’planes came
over, and the Archies began to pepper the sky.
Our Sergeant Lucky was crouching over a
brazier in the shed, when one of the Archie
shells —a dud —crashed through the tool-
passed through the tail of his great-coat and
buried itself in the ground. Lucky cher-
ished that coat as a “trfes bon souvenir.
“Kopai”: From recent announcements in
the Geelong Advertiser. A frank wood-and-
coal merchant asks: —
Have you seen our stack of dry wood? If not, let
us send you a load,
A hairdresser varies the usual self-praise: —
My motto: No waiting and civility.
Is this what the Ad. Club-men call “Truth
in Advertising”?
The usual excuse of its being a “custom
of the trade” didn’t avail to save several
big Melbourne drapery firms from being
fined £5 a-piece recently. Their little caper
was to sell as art silk hose stockings made
of a combination of cotton and wood pulp.
Defendants were surprised when the P.M.
declined to accept “art” as short for arti-
ficial. In fact, they were really hurt.
It is to be hoped Hughes won’t return to
his former domicile in Kew (Melb.) when
he comes back, because in that suburb it is
almost impossible to obtain a box of matches
that isn’t Jap made; and it would be a fear-
some circumstance for the sturdy battler for
White Australia to have to use the brown
man’s goods. He might even be driven lo
consider the expediency of a Protective
tariff.
A bit of meat with a history has come
into possession of the Geographical Society
of S.A., a gift from the widow of A. T
Magarey, formerly its secretary. A letter
from the man who gave it him, Samuel
Dayenport, the first President of that
society, shows that in 1890 it was already
about 23 years old. When Warburton, the
explorer, was in the Alice Springs district,
in the centre of Australia, working towards
the north-west shore of the continent, 1872
to 1874, he made a kind of extract of bul-
lock-meat, in blocks, to use where food was
scarce. This bit, which he brought back he
presented to Davenport. The block does
not seem to have altered much in appear-
ance in its close-on half a century of exist-
ence.
“0.K.” : In opening a Vic. Artists’ Society
show, last week, old H. G. Turner, an ex-
bank manager, made some rather foolish re- 1
marks about the sort of art (viz., pictures
which tell stories) preferred by a lot of
people who find more entertainment in. say,
a novel of strong human interest than in an
essay on contemporary literature. What
Turner really meant to say, and didn’t, was
that nobody could be expected to rush such
a show as the V.A.S. was offering to the
public. Anyhow the artists concerned —the
souls that scorn to tell a story, or suggest
a tragedy, on canvas, for the good reason
that they haven’t the art to do it —were
naturally wrath with Turner, so one of them
called upon every “genuine art-lover in the
community” to repudiate Turner’s views.
The name of the indignant protestor was
Drexel A. Van Renterdalil. 1
“L.”: We used some of Jacko’s own guns
against him in Palestine. There were plenty
captured and ammunition to burn. When
the last stunt started in September, ’lB, a
battery of 18-pounders installed on the Jor-
dan temporarily abandoned two borrowed
77’s from lack of means to carry them along
in a hurry. They left them in a secluded
gully to be called for later and bustled along
in the wake of the swiftly-moving Light
Horse. And in the artillerymen’s wake later
on came the Children of Israel, otherwise
the Jewish Battalion. Let a Tommy of the
battery finish the tale: “They captured our
bloomin’ guns, they did, wot was got months
before at Beersheba and wot we ’ad been
using ever since! Them Yids captured ’em
all alone and single-’anded while we was
absent from ’ome, as you might say. And
when we comes back to get ’em, dinkum, we
finds ‘Captured by the Jewish Battalion’
wrote all over ’em, and ‘Gawd Save the
Queen,’ wrote in ’Ebrew on the barrels!
The Yids guardin’ ’em near cried when we
took their trophies away from ’em.”
“Gleniris”: Australia can sell a good
glass eye to anybody who wants one; and so
can the British optician. Yet nowadays the
spectacle is quite common of a returned sol-
dier wearing an artificial eye of unpleasant
appearance. The other day, in Melbourne,
I saw two of these poor fellows within five
minutes of one another —quite an unneces-
sary and brutal penalty for war-service.
A friend of mine who managed to get into
the A.I.F. with only one real eye left Mel-
bourne with a casually-undetectable glass
substitute for the other. It was bought
here. When he reached England he had the
bad luck to smash the imitation article and
bought himself a pair at a London shop.
When I saw him after his return he was
wearing one of these, the other having been
held safely in reserve throughout his Euro-
pean experiences. Both on his departure
and return he usually looked quite normal
about the eyes, a fact which makes me feel
that the frequent misfitting of returned men
is inexcusable.
“Hamer’s” painful item :
While the war was on it was not permissible to
discuss S.I.W. (self-inflicted wounds). The tra-
dition had to be maintained that aTI the Allied
troops were only thirsting to get at Hun throats,
the idea that any of them wanted badly to get in
the other direction was said as little about as pos-
sible. But self-inflicted wounds became such a
bad habit amongst the soldiers that pretty nearly
every man who got wounded, outside a stunt, was
interrogated severely; and it is pretty certain that
men were charged with S.I.W. who were altogether
innocent of it. It was not only the man with the
wind-up who tried the expedient of giving himself
the nice Blighty, but men who were fed up with
constant fighting decided to help themselves to a
holiday. One of the most notorious cases of S.I.W.
occurred on Gallipoli. A Digger came, limping,
to report a bullet-hole in his foot. Being a care-
ful bloque he had taken off his boot before operating
with his rifle; then he put the boot on again, and
hunted up the doctor!


mm
m
mm.
m
9
m
mm
m
m
y m
mmm
w
w
w
0
%
m
IMSIOM
NOW ON
If you do not take advantage of tlie 331 per cent, discount ruling at our
Expansion Sale you will lose the best opportunity ever placed before you
of securing good music and musical instruments at ridiculously low prices.
With the exception of pianos and player roll and proprietary Gramophone
records, a reduction of one-third off the usual price rules on every article
in stock, including music stands, sheet music, music volumes, mandolins,
violins, flutes, clarionets, piccolos, etc., etc.
If you cannot call, send us a list of vour requirements, and our specia
mail-order staff will deal promptly with your order.
PER cent
333 George St,
Sydney.
ectle
Cr>
09
LT 3 ?
Factorv- 41“47 Trafalgar St.
Annaadale.
Branches »« Bathurat. Orange. Liamore. Newcastle. Coulburn. Wagga. VICfORIA- Maplea. in all Melbourne auburba. TASMANIA • William* Bros MoKsn .
U I H I I: USTRA 4 A J J 4" E -:; L j d - riVffi: s irtJ!£ nn 9"'*" s ““'-
FUadera Street. Townav.lle ; Rockhampton. Sydney Stieet. Mackay; Ca.ma. WESTERN AUSTRALIA : Thomson* Ltd .at Perth. Kalgoorl.e and Frcemai.tle.
€0


■
of luxite
“Unalloyed” Dyes
The dyes used in Hose
of Luxite are “unalloyed”—not
loaded with heavy metallic com-
pounds to give the hose a glossy,
heavy appearance.
The soft, full-bodied shimmer of
Hose of Luxite is gained by the
use of rich, fine-stitched materials,
pure-dyed.
That is why its elegance and
beauty last through repeated wash-
ings.
The wide range of styles and
prices will suit every purse and
purpose.
Don’t accept substitutes, and
think you have “Luxite.”
Insist upon the genuine.
If your dealer is unable to
supply you, write us.
Walter Cathro Pty. Ltd.,
York Street : : Sydney.
CHARM OF MANNER
1
Al
may be enhanced by beauty of the face.
touch 4 of SWAN DOWN gives just that ‘
delicacy and purity to the complexion which,
being scarcely perceptible, is admired the more
TETLOW’S
OK
I
FACE POWDER
Imparts a delicate bloom to •
the complexion. So Pure that
it-willnot harm the most
delicate Shin.
ETOUsf7I D per
PRICE § 2 box
In Five Tints:
White,Cream, Pink,
• Flesh end Brunette.
, OTStores. Chemists
First Class Drapery Houses-
Sr PerfUmers everywhere.
X
fAMfto
Cer
Wholesale DisfribuHng Agente-
Messrs. ELLIOTT lilt OS., LTD., •
Sydney.
Messrs. WASHINGTON H. SOUL, i;
PATTINSON & CO., Sydney. !
Messrs. ANTHONY HORDERN AND I
SONS LTD., Sydney.
THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO., ,
Sydney.
'LONDON WHOLESALE AGENTS? ■ ,
H«MT C. Quelch & Co. 4 & 5. Ludgwte Sq., London, E.C.
DRAWS FROM THE BLOOD
THE POISONS
whiqh cause Bad Legs, Sore Feet, Car-
buncles, Boils,Varicose Ulcers, Bunions,
Eczema, Piles, etc., an 1 those arising from
Insect and Mosquito Bites.
The Proprietors of Grasshopper Ointment
have an absolute confidence in its unsur-
pas They know it to bs a tafe
and perfeot cure for all skn and blood ail-
ments; and the number of testimonials
received prove it to be. Grassh ~pper Oint-
ment positivelydraws the po.-ons which pro-
cure these maladies out of the system As
an aperient, liver medicine and blood purifier,
the Grasshopper Pills are equally effective,
and should taken in co 'junction with the
Ointment. Sold by all Drug Stores and
Chemists throughout the Commonwealth.
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
Dick’s Batata Belting
helps you increase your output!
Suppose you have a good machine —a perfectly sharp
tool —
The Best there is!
Neither is worth anything without power.
It is necessary to have a perfect connecting link between
machine and motor.
By using—•
Dick’s Balata Belting
(the Original and Genuine)
you not only get power, but power without waste
economical power,
The Dick’s Balata Belt is to-day used in every country
on the globe, and is more extensively used and known
than any other make of belting.
The fact that Dick’s Balata Belting is the largest-selling
brand in the world signifies that the material used and
the method of construction are unexcelled ill quality.
The Durability of Dick’s Balata Belting is one of its most
striking features —it lasts years without giving any
trouble, and when properly installed will run without
noise.
Send to-day for full particulars and new price list of this
economical belting to the agents,
JAMES HARDIE & CO. LTD.,
York and Wynyard Streets, SYDNEY.
581-3 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
30 Currie Street, ADELAIDE.
PAUL & GRAY, LTD., NEWCASTLE.
Queensland Agents—
QUEENSLAND MACHINERY CO., LTD.,
Albert Street, BRISBANE.
LEPLASTRIER
QUICK-SET PIPE MOULDS
(Made in Australia)
Steel Moulds for Making Concrete Pipes by Hand.
Manufactured in the following sizes:
Gin. diameter x 24in. long. loin, diameter x 24in. long.
9in. diameter x 24in. long. 18in. diameter x 24in. long.
12in. diameter x 24in. long. 24in. diameter x 24in. long.
The diameters mentioned are the Inside Diameters of finished pipes.
Any Size Pipe Mould can be furnished to order.
SJ \
'
Shows the Steel Core being drawn out after the Pipe is partially set, as
the removal of this Core leaves the inner surface of the moist concrete
pipe better exposed to the drying effects of the air.
Build “Leplastrier’s” Long-lasting 1 , Modern,
Machinery-made Roads.
Specialists in Road-building Machinery,
HEAD OFFICE: 79 CIRCULAR QUAY, SYDNEY .
“H.A.” : My old farming friend is a great
hater of the middleman. He couldn’t find
a word that fitted his enemy until a bar-
room orator presented him with “parasite.”
The harvester eagerly seized the new weapou,
and it wasn’t long before he swung it this
way:—
“An’ why is it we works ’arder, gits bigger crops,
and vit gits less fer our laber?” (Pause.) “I’ll
tell y’er! It’s because all the cream is taken off the
milk by these ’ere blarsted parachute's 1”
“Searchlight” : Country farmers growl be-
cause they find no local market for
their produce. They tell you the shop-
keepers would rather hump stuff from the
capital than give a decent price for it
locally. Correct; but whose fault is it?
The farmer haggles for the highest market
price, and after disposing of as much as he
can to the shops, hawks the rest around
their customers. What chance then have
they? So they cut out the local grower.
Anil then he growls because he has to pay
freight and heavy agency charges to market
his stuff.
“II.” : Regarding the possibility of wholly
Australian-made aeroplanes, Lieut. W. Stutt,
instructor of Richmond (N.S.W.) Aviation
School, speaks a word :
Queensland maple is equal to the best propeller
wood in the world, and another wood, a variety
of mountain ash, has been found quite suitable for
spars. The Broken Hill Co. could make any steel
required for aeroplanes, and already aeroplane
engines have been turned out at the Government
Dockyard, Newcastle, and also by two Melbourne
firms.
But, of course, the importing-craze Aus-
tralian couldn’t be expected to believe that.
“Dorsal Fin”: Apart from the unsuccess-
ful attempt of the Mary Ann and the
Matilda in 1791, the first vessel to leave
Sydney on a sealing voyage pure and simple
was the brig Mantilus, which sailed for Cape
Barren Island on November 7, 1798. There
does not seem to be any record extant of
how she got on, but on December 14, 1799,
the 30-ton schooner Martha, built at Sydney
earlier in the same year and commanded by
William Reed, came into port from Bass
Straits with 1300 sealskins and 30 tierces of
seal-oil. According to Governor King, she
had been as far afield as King Island to get
them.
The idea was that captured Hun shipping
should be distributed among the fighting
Allies in proportion to their losses, so that
they might go to sea simultaneously. But
the U.S. proposes to keep all the Hun ships
captured in its ports. Their number is so
enormous that they far outweigh Uncle’s
losses, for the Hun fled promiscuously to
Wilson's harbors, believing that the Fourteen
Pointer would never go to war. Wilson’s
country will honorably settle the difference
in cash, but you can’t fit a mast and sail on
to cash and send it out on the ocean. Ships
can be built with it in time, but meanwhile
the U.S. will scoop much trade.
Commander F. W. Belt, D. 5.0., a South
Australian, who in addition to his valuable
services during the war is one of the most
notable big-game hunters in the world, was
on a visit to Adelaide the other day. Belt,
who served throughout the Boer disturbance
in South Africa, soon after the outbreak of
the great war received command of a squad-
ron of armored cars and was despatched in
charge of them to France, where he re-
mained until September, 1915. When trench
warfare started lie took his men into the
burrows with the Belgians. In November,
1915, he was sent (via Archangel) to assist
Russia with 500 men and officers, together
with armored cars and transport cars. He
spent the winter of 1916-17 in the trenches
with the Russians near Galitz, on the
Danube. Belt received the D. 5.0., and,
from Russia, the Orders of St. Ann and St.
Stanilaus. On his return to England the
British Admiralty sent him to New York
on a naval mission and for six months he
was engaged in propaganda amongst the
Yanks.
Randolph Bedford’s word back :
“Yeronga” remarks (B. 15/5/’l9) that I “ought
to know” and “must know” that the Brisbane
“Peace” Demonstration which counted out Treasurer
Theodore was not aimed at Theodore, are merely
untrue. The reports of the meeting state that there
were old women of both sexes shouting at Theodore,
“Go back to your own country,” which literally
amounts to a demand for his retirement to Port
Adelaide, leaving the Government open to some loyal
immigrant or other. The Anti-Labor, the Sec-
tarian and the Anti-Ryan is also and directly the
Anti-Theodore opposition. In the House one night
there was rehearsed that of which this more public
demonstration is a performance. When Theodore
began his Budget speech an imported person oppo-
site said “Put your fez on.” The big Australian
stopped and looked at the other, saying, “What did
you say ?” and the little person stammered and was
silent; physically afraid that he was about to get
it where Turkey gets it every Christmas. As for
the attacks on Ryan, they are part of his job ; the
only retaliation possible to the crowd that sees itself
permanently out of power. Queensland’s refusal of
conscription on the advice of the ruling party is
justified by present knowledge, then not available, or
suppressed, and also by the fact that during the
war Australia has been poled on, as usual —poled
on for men (and the men poled on for their quality),
poled on in the prices of their commodities, so that
we got half the world’s price for wheat and meat
and the tungsten metals, another price for lead and
zinc, and no price at all for copper. “Yeronga”
says: “Ryan’s Government threw a block of ice at
almost every movement started to assist the soldiers,”
and in reply to that the Queensland Government has
provided the only State scheme of repatriation worthy
of the name. What sort of an old wives’
tale is this of T. J. Ryan “debarring the chil-
dren from saving their pennies to help to buy
comforts for the men” ? As a matter of policy
the Education Department objected to schemes
which threatened to make the children habitual
cadgers, and to the hurt of their real business, which
is to learn. The party fight in Queensland has been
so bitter that, failing to win at the polls—the electors
being very sick of them and their works —the Liberal
tail brought vexatious lawsuits, which cost the State
a barrowful of money—each on appeal being fired out
by the Privy Council in favor of the Government. And
the Tory press in Brisbane still calls the Premier’s
visit to London a “joy ride,” when it well knows
that Ryan went to London at the invitation of the
British Government, and as the Government’s counsel
in the Privy Council’s appeal.


DURABILITY
One thing that adds excess value
and life to the New 1919 Stude-
bakers is the special steels used
in manufacture.
Studebaker operates its laboratories to MAKE
SURE that these beautiful cars will go out
into all parts of the world and give LONG
DEPENDABLE SERVICE. Many of the
alloy steels and heat-treating processes devel-
oped by Studebaker have become Standard
IN THE AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY.
Thus SCIENTIFIC ANALYSIS, ABSOLUTE ACCURACY
of manufacture, and PERFECT ALIGNMENT of all parts
REDUCES FRICTION to the very lowest point, and GRANTS
STRENGTH to the Nth degree. That is why STUDE-
BAKERS GIVE THE LONG “CARE FREE” SERVICE
that counts.
Call at our showrooms and let us show you the open chassis illustrating the reason
of Studebaker longevity, or at your request we will forward illustrated literature.
But call if you can.
“They Sell Themselves/*
THE STUDEBAKER CORPORATION OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED,
Head Office for Australia: 177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. South Australian Branch : 1 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Turner Bros., 398 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Armstrong C. & M. Agency, Hay'Street, Perth.
C. C. & M. A. Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
New Zealand: Adams Limited,
Christchurch,
Palmerston North,
Timaru,
Wanganui.
■ ill


On Face. Skin Was Red
and Irritated.
“My face broke out in a rash which
formed into pimples. They came with
big white heads and the
pimples were scattered.
The ' skin around them
was.a little red and they
used toSirritate me when I
perspired.
“I sent for a sample of
Cuticurai Soap and Oint-
ment which afforded! relief. I bought
more and after usinjg them about three
months I am healed.” (Signed) H.
J. S. Borland, 137'Thomdon Quay,
Wellington, N. Z.,, April 10, 1917.
Keep your skin cjlear by daily use of
Cuticura Soap and (Ointment.
Soap to cleanse anil Ointment to heal.
“R. lowns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
the world.
Hi
*9
(l
BURNS AIR
One‘BEST’Light
Gives more Light than
Six Electric Lights, or Ten
Kerosene Lamps or One
Hundred Candles.
Burns 90$ Air 10# Gas
A beautiful, pure white, steady,
safe light. No Wick! NoUrcaaol
No Smoke! No Odor! Hang or Set
it anywhere. Over 100 Styles*
These Lamps being Portable
they require no fitting.
Let us post you a
Best Light
Wall Lamp
complete, which gives 100-candle power light
for 42/6 Post Free
Send for Catalogue No. 821, which also
contains Hollow Wire System of Lighting
BRANDT BROS. LTD.
Air-Gas Engineers
236 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
ELEY
CARTRIDGES
Always
Reliable
I !!
mm
ea
ELEY ‘ Fourlong"
A .410 bore inch
Indian Red Cartridge,
loaded with Eley (33gr.)
Smokeless Powder and
No. 6 or smaller shot.
ELEY 450
No. 1 Rifle
ELEY 38
Automate
for VVebley & Scott or
Colt Automatic Pistols
1
as
m
uj
m
m
3
ELEY 410
‘Universal
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
ELE Y BROS. L° LONDON
: ; n. W>=
H/.
3?
%
s
“Yom sef hot dishes right on the bare table! Aren’t you afraid
you'll ruin the surface? ”
“Not at all, my table is polished tvilh Johnson’s Prepared Wax. It
sc thoroughly protects the finish that hot dishes do not affect it. ’’
|jg gg|
El
II
mws id
protects and preserves the var-
nish adding years to its life and
beauty. It cleans and polishes
in one operation covers up
mars ana surface scratches
prevents checking.
Johnson's Prepared Wax can be used
on the finest finish without danger of
injuring it. The hard glasslike surface
it imparts protects the varnish and
gives to it the sheen of a mirror. It con-
tains no oil and does not become soft
and sticky in hot weather. It does not
finger print and cannot collect the dust.
Use it on
Furniture
Woodwork
Linoleum
Motor Car
Piano
Leather Goods
You will be astonished by the beautiful
results attained from
a single application
of Johnson’s Pre-
pared Wax.
f Your dealer can pro-
vide you with Johnson’s
products. If he does not
keep them in stock he
can easily procure them
from us.
S. C. Johnson & Son
Mr.nufacturers
379 Kent St., Sydney, N.S.W.
- ‘y w
c
- IS 1
a Mw*;!, letiFT *
i*ttktEB WAX
SUS
**•<*■•
ai
K >}S3fc;:S.-t
»w«»rv'y \^/vj
s,#?**:*
s? ®ssasxsss! !i
THE. TOUCH TELES
Glide smoothly, never grate.
Artists, Draughtsmen, Engineers,
Architects, Drawing Students, Busi-
ness Men —these are just a few of the
classes who buy VENUS Pencils regu-
larly.
are not a luxury, they are a
necessity for the best work.
m
W
¥
Made in 17 degrees, 6B to
9H, and 3 styles of Copying
OF ALL STATIONERS AND ARTTSTS’-
MATERIAL DEALERS THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND.
“Sarg”: Notice on a cupboard alongside a
Digger's cookhouse: —
If you don't believe us, look in the cubberd
for your self.
The key to the little self-closing lock was
hung conspicuously on the notice.
Some have limelight thrust upon them. As
a result of the Jazz craze the drummer is
now the most important member of London
orchestras, and “noises,” who a few months
ago was drawing £2 a week, is now receiving
£B, and accepting them haughtily. Many of
the cafes feature their experts in their adver-
tisements. As a matter of fact, the drummer
is “Jazz.”
Robert Purnell, M.L.A. for the Barwon
(Vic.) and a member of the Fish Commis-
sion, has evolved a great idea for conserving
the State’s live-stock. His scheme is to
plant the headwaters of all Victorian streams
with the right sort of fish. These, after a
few years’ encouragement, would provide
farmers and other country-dwellers with a
weekly fish-dinner, thus keeping alive a
large number of sheep which would other-
wise be muttonised. (food ; but it would be
better still if Purnell could persuade the
backbone of the country to plant a bed of
beans.
Maor'.land does its best to discover the
energetic and versatile citizen and reward
him with a suitable job : —•
Borough of Tapanui.—Wanted, a Dayman, who will
be willing to undertake the duties of Nightman and
Lamplighter in case of an emergency. Wages, 11s.
per daf. Also, a Man, to fill the position of Night-
man, Lamplighter, Caretaker of Cemetery, Pound-
keeper, Motor-car Inspector, Caretaker of Ilall, Hanger,
and General Utility. Wages, 11s. per day for
day work, and £1 ss. per week regular in addition
in respect of night work and lamplighting, also
£0 per annum for motor inspection, and other small
extras. A man with some taste for ornamental
gardening would be preferred.
“D.F.”: There being no Health Acts in
1796, Governor Hunter on October 22 issued
the following general order :
It having been represented to the Governor that
the people who have been allowed to occupy huts
on each side of the stream which supplies the town
of Sydney have opened the palings and made paths
to the water from each hut, and have built pigsties
at the rear of them, by which in rainv weather a
quantity of filth must run into the stream, his
Excellency gives notice: That after this Order any
person found using a path from the house to the
stream, or keeping hogs in the neighborhood thereof,
or/ opening a passage through the paling will be
removed and the house pulled down.
After that the straying pigs remained in the
family circle with the other animals.
Agreeing with Jim Curnow, who helps to
run Bendigo, George Wise says that the Vic.
A.N.A. lacks the ginger it used to possess
when it was a smaller and less smugly
respectable body. He is right. More notice
was taken of the earnest, soulful 10,000
members of 22 or 25 years ago than of the
31,000 members who now sit behind funds
aggregating £500,000. Wise prefers a policy,
that draws the fire of criticism rather than
a self-satisfied attitude. Speaking at the
re-union of past and present Board members
Wise (who was fresh from a seven-hours’
Cabinet meeting, by the way), pleaded for
more splutter. The “revolutionary” resolu-
tions passed at the Warrnambool Confer-
ence 25 years ago that brought such a slat-
ing from critics, he remarked, had subse-
quently been taken up, and made the basis
of laws which were now regarded as very
safe measures. While criticising the asso-
ciation’s shortcomings Wise was, inciden-
tally, criticising himself, for he is still a
member of the governing body.
Chief Sec. Bowser, in turning over the
control of the Vic. Health Department to
John McWhae, apparently left a few little
things behind him. Commissioner Curnow,
of the Board of Health, put it this way at
last week’s meeting: “If ever chaos ruled
supreme it is in this department at present.”
Lots of other gingery remarks were made
on the same occasion concerning the adminis-
tration of ’flu affairs—“howling farce,”
“ghastly disgrace,” “scurvy treatment of
V.A.D.’s,” and so on, the more vociferous
Board-members roasting the Department to
a deep brown over the fire of their wrath.
Yet it takes an epidemic like the ’flu to
make the Board effervesce in this way.
Usually members regard their position in
relation to the Government with great calm-
ness, either in the lethargy born of despair
or because they consider that it’s not worth
while to make a scene on the Minister’s
doormat and refuse to leave until pushed.
It is now up to the Board to select a neat
assortment of its most vital proposed-
reforms, supply each Minister with a copy
and declare that it w T on’t be happy—and
won’t let the Ministry have a moment’s
happiness, either —until it gets ’em. When
it does get ’em the public may have a better
opinion of the Board as a body of practical
men.
“Gleniris” : A rural patriot named Robert
Irving, of Salisbury West (Vic.), has been
barracking for the more general cultivation
of the saltbush. Irving recently offered to
supply seeds of several varieties of this
native blessing to those wishing to test its
worth. In response to the succeeding
demand he has sent seeds to more than 400
inquirers. Meantime there have been re-
markable disclosures concerning the fodder.
The plant, it seems, is now almost extinct in
the Wimmera, having been eaten right out
through careless or greedy grazing. Yet in
India and the U.S. a creeping variety
(Atriplex semibaccata) , which can be bought
at any of the bigger Melbourne seedsliops, is
much valued, producing as much as 20 tons
of greenstuff to the acre. It can also be
made into hay—five tons to the acre, or
about the same as lucerne at its best. I
was not one of the 400, but I have
a few plants of the semibaccata growing in a
corner by the pigpen. It is a beautiful,
green, juicy, soft-stemmed fodder, sending
out slender shoots which may be cut without
damage to the parent plant and putting forth
new shoots at the junction of each trailer.
It starts, slowly from seed, but when sown
at rain-time in spring or autumn it comes
along all right. Mostly the saltbush has
been neglected by State Departments of
Agriculture, though Dr. Cherry gave it a
chance and did his best to advertise it as a
source of protein for stock-raising.


BETTER PAPER
BETTER PRINTING
M
V
WM
O
m
%
®L
mimmm
N *
BETTER PAPER
BETTER PRINTING
“ Advertising writing is a
matter of Inspiration, and
Inspiration is a matter of
Fact.”
And so in writing Warren’s
advertisement for this
issue of the Bulletin, we
turn for inspiration to
WARREN’S
PAPER BUYER’S GUIDE for 1919
An advance copy of which is just to hand.
What can we say of
THIS COMPENDIUM OF INFORMATION! THIS WORK OF ART!
THIS MASTERPIECE OF PRINTING!
Though offered by the S. D. Warren Company, of Boston, U.S.A., as a Paper
Buyer’s Guide, we fear, rather than anticipate, that it will too often be treated as
a “gem from the mine of Printerdom,” to be cherished rather than used. But
the sole purpose of this issue, in the words of its introductory note, is, “To offer
users of printing papers a demonstration of suitably illustrated work adapted to
the characteristics of the thirteen kinds of printing papers made by the S. D.
Warren Company.’’
The illustrations present various kinds of technique from line, brush and direct
photographs, reproduced by the processes and screens best suited to the subjects;
and full particulars of the methods of treatment of each are supplied. The color
work is of a wonderfully high order —and Art added to Utility makes the
finished product invaluable alike to the man who prints and the man who buys the
printing.
The Book comprises 120 pages with 72 demonstration illustrations requiring 130 plates
for their execution; the whole handsomely bound and gold-lettered. No less than
seven separate American printing houses contributed to the work. Nothing like this
1919 issue has been previously offered in Australia, and we are proud, as sole
Australian agents for Warren’s Standard Printing Papers, to be the medium through
which this exclusive edition is made available to the trade.
We invite master printers, advertising writers, and buyers of good printing to send for
a copy. Only a limited number will be available, so it will be necessary to apply
without delay. Bona fide applications will be supplied post free while the issue lasts.
SPECIAL MEMO TO PRINTERS.
We have also just landed a beautiful range of Cover Papers,
for booklets, catalogues, etc. These were personally selected
in America by our Managing Director, Mr. B. J. Ball, and
represent the foremost American mill in Cover Papers. Send
for a bound volume of specimens.
BETTER PRINTING
BETTER BUSINESS
BETTER PRINTING
BETTER BUSINESS
MELBOURNE.
552 COLLINS STREET.
B. J, BALL LIMITED,
SYDNEY,
168 CLARENCE STREET.
STANDARD
BRISBANE.
132/4 CHARLOTTE ST.


A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Diamond-
and Pearl-set Necklet,
A. Saunders’ pure double-cut Diamond Bar
Brooch, loct. Gold, £7/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure Diamond Clu-ter Bar Brooch,
15ct. Gold, £5/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure double-cut Diamond Brooch,
15ct. Gold, £7O.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding Watch
Wristlet, full-jewelled lever movement, compensation balance,
£B/10/-
Extra jewelled, £lO. 15ct., £l5.
k A
Z
A. Saunders’ Gent. ’9
pure double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, £l5.
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, £lO.
Emerald and
double-cut
Diamond Kin",
18ct. Gold, £25.
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut
Diamond Bing,
18ct. Gold, £l5.
A. Saunders’ pure double-cut Diamond Brooch,
15ct. Gold, £5.
A. Saunders’ pure double-cut Diamond Bar
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £3/10/-
Larger Diamond, £5, £7/10/-, £lO.
A. Sa its’
Diamond- and
Pearl-set Scarf
Pin, loot. Gold,
£2/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut
Diamond Crossover
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£45.
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut
Diamond Rin~.
ISct, Gold, £2O.
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut
Diamond Crossover
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
A. Saunders’
pure double-
cut Diamond
Necklet, loct.
Gold,
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut
Diamond Cluster
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£3O.
A. Saunders' pure
double-cut
Diamond Ring,
ISct. Gold, £2O.
A. Saunders’
pure double-cut Diamond Kxpanding Brace
15et. Gold, £J>o.
A. Saunders' Lady's Solid Gold pure double-cut Diamond-set
Expanding Wristlet Match, full-jewelled lever movement,
compensation balance, £25.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold pure double-e:t
Diamond-set Expanding Wristlet Watch, full-jewtlle I
lever movement, £2O. Guaranteed.
Without Diamonds, £4, £4/10/-, £5, £O,
£7/10/-, £B/10/-, £lO to £2O.
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller, 805-815 George Street, Sydney
(Opposite Railway Station).
A. Saunders’
pure Diamond
Scarf Pin, 15ct.
Gold,
£3/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut
diamond Cluster
Itiiijr. 18ct. Gob',
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure double-cut Diamond Cluster
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £l5.
J
A. Saunders’ pure double-cut Diamond Knife-edge
Bar Brooch, loot. Gold, £l5.
& • " '■*
A. Saunders’ pure double-cut Diamond Knife-edge
Bar Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £2/10/-
Larger Diamond, £3/10/-, £5, £7/10/-
A. Saunders’ Lady’s 9et. Solid Gold Patent Expanding
Wristlet Watch, full-jewelled lever movement, compensation
balance, £lO. loot., £l5.
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut
Diamond Ring,
JBct. Gold, £l5.
Saunders’ pure
double-cut
Diamond King,
1 Set, Gold, £2O.
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut
Diamond King,
18ct Gold, £5O.
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut
Diamond Half-hoop
fling, 18rt. Gold,
A. Saunders’ pure double-cut Diamond Bar
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £3/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure double-cut Diamond Bar
Brooch, loct. Gold, £5,
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We StJPn.Y —
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard*
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Bu i 1 d er s’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68} PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.IV.
Branches in all parts of the world.
GIBSON’S
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide.
High-class Residential Hotel.
Tariff: 15/- per day inclusive.
8/= per day Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
[lave permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding l’iles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
JNoy, N.S.AV., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/3 per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
The surest, quickest remedy for
Catarrh, Ordinary Colds and
Asthmatic troubles. The Stand-
ard remedy for over 40 years.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
th rough out A ustralasia.
EVERYBODY!
The Book of Nature
A FULL AND EXPLICIT EXPLANATION
OF ALL THAT CAN OR OUGHT TO BE
KNOWN BY
MAN and WOMAN,
INTENDED ESPECIALLY FOR
THE MARRIED, OR THOSE IN-
TENDING TO MARRY.
By L. M. BYRN, M.D.
A PRACTICAL COMPLETE
FAMILY DOCTOR.
No such Complete Panorama of the Mysteries
of Human Reproduction has ever before been
given to the world.
DR. BYRN’S ILLUSTRATED EDITION
(1917 ISSUE) IS THE ONLY GENUINE
BOOK. ASK FOR IT, AND TAKE NO
OTHER. -PRICE:
TWO SHILLINGS & SIXPENCE.
POST FREE.
Live and Learn, 2/-. How to Get Rich,
1/6 posted. Dr. Lamartine’s Silent Friend,
1/6. Ned Donnelly’s Art op Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, 1/6. How to
Dance, 1/6 posted. How to Wrestle, 1/6.
Moll Flanders (a rare book by Defoe), 1/3
posted. Thurston's Card Tricks, 1/3. All
Zola’s, including Nana, 2/6 each posted.
EducaMng the House. 1/3. Ventriloquism
Made Easy, 1/3. Up-to-date Comic Reciter,
1/6 posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory. IL3. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 6/6 posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, 1/3, and ail Uie Rational Ureas itepnuts
(send for list). Tea Cup Fortune Telling, 1/3.
How to Make Your Will, 1/3. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 2/3. The Australian 1 ruit
Gardener, 1/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/6. Par-
lor Tricks and Games, 1/6. Fortune-Telling
by Caros, 1/9. Life (a book for Men and Women
of To-day), 2/-. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales,
1/9. Tricks & Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/6.
Beauty’s Secrets, 1/6 post free. Night of Temp-
tation, 2/-. How to Make Love, 1/3 post free.
Fowler’s Science of Life, 12/6. Australian
Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 4/-.
Mahomet’s Fortune-Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price 1/-, posted 1/3.
How to Become Quick at Figures, 1/3. Will
Power (Personal Magnetism), posted 1/-. San-
dow-'s Book of Strength posted, 4/-. Car-
lisle’s Freemasonry, 6/3 posted. Daughters
of Ismael, 2/6. History of the Rod Flagella-
tions and the Flagellants (scarce), 15/-.
Practical Gas and Oil Engine Handbook. 5/6.
Motor Mechanics, 3/9. Motor Manual
(latest), 3/6. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 1/-
and 2/3. God and My Neighbor, 9d. How
to Read Faces, 2/-. Adventures of a Sydney
Barmaid, 1/-. Colonial Horse Doctor, 2/-.
French Polishing and Staining, 2/3. Photog-
raphy Self-taught, 1/6. How to Make
Sweets. Jams and 'Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks
with Coins, 1/3 posted. House Painting and
Papering, 2/3. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
12/6. Australian Pastrycooks’ Guide. 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/6 posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/6. How to Read Faces
and Heads, 2/-. Soldering, Brazing, etc.,
2/3 posted. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/9. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; 1/3 posted.
Camille, 1/6 posted. Piano Tuning and Repair-
ing, 2/3. Modern Etiquette, 1/3. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), 1/6. How
to Mesmerise, 2/-. Man from Snowy River,
4/-. Poultry Keeim.no, 1/3 posted. Parlor
Magic, 1/3 posted. The White Slave Traffic,
1/3. Every Man His Own Carpenter, 1/6.
Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator,
1/1. Secret History of the Court of Eng-
land, 2/-. Letter-Writer Up-to-date, 1/6
posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, 1/6 posted. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-; 1/2
posted. Electricity Made Simple (new), 6/'-.
The Confectioner’s Handbook, 1/6. Sexual
Knowledge for Everybody (with plates), 6/6
posted. How to Shine in Society, 1/6.
Cabinetmakers' Handybook, 2/-. Complete
Bookkeeping, 2/6. Life of Deeming, illus-
trated, 1/1. How McDougall Topped the
Score, and Other Verses, 1/3. French
Self Taught, 1/3. Wannan’s Engine-
driver’s Guide. 6/- posted. Decameron of Boc-
caccio, 4/6 each, posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 2/- posted. Women’s Secrets, 1/-
posted. Gay Life in Melbourne, 1/- posted.
Secrets of Beauty, Health and Long Life
(50,000 sold), 2/- posted. A Bed of Roses, 4/6.
All These Prices Post Paid.
Established 30 Years.
DON’T BE FOOLED
INTO PA YING MORE.
New Tricks with Cards, 1/6. Sappho, genu-
ine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 posted. Dr.
Milford’s Midwife’s Handbook, 92 practical
Send stamp for my
BIG ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
illustrations, 3/'-. Aristotle, 5/-. Adam Lind-
say Gordon's Poems, 1/9. Practical Palm-
istry, 2/-. Guide to Auctioneering, 3/6.
Lovers’ Letter-writer, 1/6. All about Incu-
bators, 2/3. Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed,
Key to All Degrees, New Edition, 1/9 posted.
Vest-pocket Dictionary, 1/6 posted. Tokology,
10/6 posted. Ingersoll’s Works, 1/3, 2/-. How
to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 2/- posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Wife, 3/9 posted. Bread
and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-boilers’ Assist-
ant, 2/-. The Wife’s Handbook, 1/3 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, 1/- posted. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness
and its Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster’s Large
Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus.,
leather bound, my price, 20s. post paid. (Why
pay 3 and 4 guineas?). Bootmaking and Repair-
ing, 2/3. Dynamos and Electric Motors. 2/3.
Moore : s Universal Assistant and Complete
Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 12/6 posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, 1/3 posted.
Henry Lawson’s Humorous Verses. 1/3. The
Age of Reason, by Paine, 1/3 posted. Rasputin,
the Monk of Evil 2/9. One Day, 1/3 posted. The
Wizard’s Manual, 1/3. Speeches from the
Dock, 2/-. Life’s Shop Window, 2/-. Three
Weeks, 21- posted. The Escaped Nun, 2/-. Six
Women (bv Victoria Cross), 2/-. The Black
Prophet, 5/3. Toxi Jones (Fielding), 3/-. Aus-
tralian Miners and Prospectors’ Guide, 2/-.
Adventures of John Johns, 2/6.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, the big book store, $7 gs 9 Market Street, Sydney miv.
MT BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH. ““•S


Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
booics are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
Folk-Lore in the Old Testament:
Studies in Comparative Religion,
Legend and Law. By Sir J. G.
FRAZER, D.C.L., LL.D., Litt.D,
Author of “The Golden Bough,
“Totemism and Exogamy,” etc., 6
vols. 37s. 6d. net.
Nature. —“These three volumes should be
the household companion of every religious
teacher, nay, of everyone who cares or dares
to see what that latest daughter of science,
folk-lore, has to say about the cherished
beliefs from the Old Testament, absorbed in
infancy and rarely visualised differently in
later life.”
AY. B. YEATS.
The Wild Swans at Coole. Poems by
WILLIAM BUTLER YEATS. 5s.
net. With Illustrations in color.
Git:»njali and Fruit Gathering. By
Sir RABINDRANATH TAGORE.
With Illustrations in Color and Half-
tone by Nandalal Bose, Surendranath
Kar, Abanindranath Tagore and
Nobindranath Tagore. 10s. net.
ROUND TABLE PUBLICATIONS.
The Round Table
A Quarterly Review of the Politics of
the British Commonwealth.
2s. 6d. net.
Annual Subscription, 10s. net, post
free.
Leading Contents for March: —
Australia: The Record of the Aus-
tralian Forces in the War.
The Practical Organisation of Peace.
America and World Responsibility.
Bolshevik Aims and Bolshevik Ideals.
German Democracy at the Cross
Roads. ,
The Problem of the Common-
wealth. L. CURTIS. The after-
war relations between Great Britain
and the Dominions. Australian Edi-
tion, 2s. 6d. and 4s.
The Commonwealth of Nations. The
historical basis of the foregoing. Aus-
tralian Edition, 6s.
Macmillan’s
Empire Library.
5s. per volume.
“ELIZABETH.”
606. Christopher and Columbus. A
Novel by the author of “Elizabeth
and Her German Garden.”
HUGH WALPOLE’S NEW NOVEL.
665. The Secret City: A Novel of
Russian Life. By HUGH WAL-
POLE, author of “The Green Mir-
ror,” etc.
The Daily Mail: “A story which will cer-
tainly be one of the ‘novels of the year.’....
His portraits of Russians are admirably done,
lifelike and entertaining.... This interesting
book.”
NEW NOVELS.
Birth. By ZONA GALE. 4s. 6d.
The story of a “dud” who lias a noble soul.
Contains some sketches of character which are
lifelike.
Khaki. How Tredick got into the
War. By FREEMAN TILDEN. 4s.
6d.
In the Heart of a Fool. By WIL-
LIAM ALLEN WHITE, Author of
“A Certain Rich Man.” 4s. 6d.
Chicago Post.—“An absorbing book, filled
with love, adventure, pathos, humor and
drama.”
Orders for the above three books to be sent
to the Melbourne Depot, 109 Russell Street.
To be Obtained from all Booksellers.
MACMILLAN SCO.LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
Amusements.
Ilnrry Rickards Tivoli I'lientres I,HI.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
'IVOI.I
I' II K A T It K.
S V I) N E Y
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday at 2.30.
THE BETTER ’OLE.
Captain Bairnsfather’s World-famous Comedy.
Plan at Nicholson’s and the Tivoli.
-|"TVOLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, JUNE 7.
HUGH D. McINTOSH PRESENTS
THE FASCINATING MUSICAL PLAY,
THE OFFICERS’ MESS.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- & 1/-, plus tax.
QUIT E It IO N TII EA T It E. SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.
The Leading American Comedy Star, M. B.
FIGMAN, together with LOLITA ROBERTSON
NOTHING BUT THE TRUTH.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Day Sales at Callose’s.
H
E It M A .1 E S T Y ’ S, S Y D N E Y.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
Matinges Wednesday and Saturday.
C. WILLIAMSON’S TREMENDOUS
PANTOMIME EXTRAVAGANZA,
GOODY TWO SHOES.
Box Plan at Paling’s, Day Sales at White Rose.
H IC A T It E ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Lessees J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
ALLAN WILKIE REPERTORY SEASON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF THE SQUAW MAN.
SATURDAY NEXT, JUNE 7.
THE SIGN OF THE CROSS.
Plan at Paling’s.
Popular Prices.
A L A C E THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVENINGS AT 7.45.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY & SATURDAY at 1.45.
J. & N. TAIT, BAILEY & GRANT’S
SECOND ANNUAL PANTOMIME EXTRAVAGANZA,
JACK AND JILL.
“A feast for the eye, ear and nerve.”
Box Plans at Nicholson’s.
w
IRTHS’ CIRCUS
And Great Water Pantomime.
NEW HIPPODROME, lIAYMARKET.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY & SATURDAY AT 2.30.
A COMPLETE NEW CIRCUS IN ALL ITS
GLORIOUS SPLENDOR & OPULENT VASTNESS.
Prices: 5/-, 4/-, 3/- and 2/-, plus tax.
Children under 10, half-price.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
J
N 1 O N PICTURE THEAT It E S
THE PICK OF THE WORLD’S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYCEUM,
3TRAND. GLOBE, LYRIC, EMPRESS,
JAJESTIC, GRAND, KING’S CROSS,
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
LJEIt MAJESTY’S THEATRE. M EI.IM)U
I* Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
It NIC.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. PRESENT THE
AVIATION MUSICAL PLAY.
GOING UP.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
’ II E A T It E It O Y A L. M ELBOU UN E.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present Everybody’s
Favorite,
MURIEL STARR, in
THE SILENT WITNESS.
Plan at Allan’s.
Prices as usual.
K
ING’S THEATRE. MEI,BOU It N E.
Lessees: BAILEY A GRANT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. & N. TAIT present the o' ly
HARRY LAUDER.
Prices: 10/-, 7/6, 5/-. 3/-, 2/- Plan at Allan’s.
1 RINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Proprietors —BEN and JOHN FULLER.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AT 2.30.
DENIS KEHOE’S IRISH PLAYERS in
THE DAYS OF ’9B.
The Delightful Comedy Drama, with Songs.
Popular Prices. Plan at Pianola.
U D 1 T O It I U M,
M E L, B O U K N E.
THURSDAY, JUNE 12.
FIRST APPEARANCE OF A NEW OPERATIC
TENOR,
EDGAR BRITNELL.
Prices: 5/5, 3/3, 2/2, 1/1. Box Plan at Glen’s.
FAULIvNER-SMITH DIRECTION, Managers.
OYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE
Also SYDNEY.
E LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
ETHEL CLAYTON in
WOMAN’S WEAPONS.
JOHN BARRYMORE in
ON THE QUIET.
Prices as usual.
Amusements.
lyj X.IESTIC
TII EAT HE. M E LBOU KN K.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
WILLIAM S. HART in'
STAKING HIS LIFE.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
Plans at Allan’s.
Q I A C I A B I U JI,
MELBOURNE.
ICE-SKATING
SEASON NOW OPEN.
DI GILIO’S BAND.
|y| ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATIIE,
WORLD, FOX and SELZNICK.
gIiITANNIA 'LiI EAT RE. M ELItOL ItNE.
PRESENTING THE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. and fid.
IP*
I'&Y
• v- •
v . - ''
ABBEY
SHOES
Select your shoes according to QUALITY
—not Price —that’s the way to ensure
satisfaction —and it’s always the most
economical in the long run.
We feature a special Golf Shoe in choice
Tan Willow Calf.
Heavy Soles, 42/=
Light Soles, 40/*
Postage extra.
Made in half and full sizes, and in three
fittings—narrow, medium and wide.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
ifi
■ i
rvOOD SKINNING KNIFE. —Two-bladed Pocket
Vjr Knife (one blade for skinning, other ordinary
tyle). Made by Harrison Bros, and Hovvson, Shef-
field England. Splendid for rabbiting, Post free, 8/6.
MANUFACTURERS’ SELLING AGENCY, 8 Spring
Street, Sydney.
George hotel.
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Eargest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize IVleda.l3.
Works: Birmingham, England!
These series 1 of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box. *■
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Although over £750,000 was paid dur-
ing 1918 in War Claims alone, the
Cash Bonus Distributed for 1918
exceeded
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about
Accumulated Funds exceed
Annual Income over
£1,000,000
£1,700,000
£39,000,000
£5,500,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, General Manager.
TN THE MATTER OF THE BRITISH-
x AUSTRALIAN OIL COMPANY, LIMITED.
Walter Francis Scott Armstrong, James Daven-
port and Kenneth Mackenzie Clark, on behalf ,of
themselves and all other Holders of Debenture Stock
entitled to the Benefit of the Indenture mentioned in
the Endorsement in the Writ,
v.
The British-Austiralian Oil Company, Limited,
General Investors and Trustees, Limited, and
John Macdonald Henderson.
TENDERS ARE INVITED by Messrs. Sly and
Russell as Attorney for General Investors and
Trustees, Limited, and John Macdonald Henderson,
Trustees for the Debenture Stock Holders of the
British-Australian Oil Company, Limited, for the
pure..use of tne following Assets, namely :
1. The Purchase IN ONE LOT of the whole of
the Freehold Lands, Leaseholds, Rights,
Machinery and Plant, Tools, Stores, Rolling
Stock and Sundries, Trade Marks, Goodwill,
Business and undertaking of the British-Aus-
tralian Oil Company, Limited, as covered by
the said Debenture Stock, excluding Live Stock,
Book Debts, Cash and Bank Balances and
Records, but including:—
Freeholds and Leaseholds and Shale Mine and
Mine Plant, Tools, etc., and Cottages at
Temi, Counties of Buckland and Brisbane.
Leaseholds and Aerial Ropeway connecting the
Temi Mine and the Crude Oil Works at
Murrurundi.
Leaseholds and Freeholds, and Crude Oil Works
at Murrurundi.
Railway Siding at Murrurundi.
Freeholds and Oil Refinery Works at Hamilton,
including Railway Siding.
Oil Tank Waggons.
OR ALTERNATIVELY. The Purchase in SEC-
TIONS of the said Assets, that is to say—
Section 1. Freeholds, Leaseholds, Rights, Machinery
and Plant, Tools and Sundries, Business and
Undertaking at Temi and Murrurundi, com-
prising Shale Mine, Aerial Ropeway and com-
plete Crude Oil Works, with two benches of
Retorts and Accessories capable of retorting
210 tons of shale per diem ; also Crude Naphtha ,
Plant, Sulphate of Ammonia Plant, Workshops,
Store, Railway Siding, and Water Services as
more fully described in schedule.
Section 2. Oil Refinery Works, situated on Free-
hold land, comprising four benches of Stills
(one with brickwork damaged by fire), each
accompanied by charging tanks, receiving tanks,
and all necessary appurtenances, also Paraffin Ex-
traction House and Plant, and Washers and
Refinery necessary for the manufacture of first-
grade Oil; also Naphtha Refinery complete, and
Tin and Box-making Plant; the necessary
power derived from six boilers complete with
brick smoke stack, 162 ft. high; also Tar and
Acid Plant; also Plumbers’, Tinsmiths’, Fitters’
and Coopers’ Shops, Stock Tanks, Water Ser-
vice, Railway Siding, Loco. Crane, etc.; also
Brick Office and Laboratory, including materials,
the specific items making up the above, being
more particularly described in schedule. Works
designed to treat about 4,000,000 gallons of
Crude Oil per annum.
Section 3. Seventeen Oil Tank Waggons of four-
wheel type, each designed to carry 2740 gallons.
3.
OR ALTERNATIVELY. The PURCHASE IN
GROUPS of the said Assets, that is to say:—
Group A. The Assets at or in connection with
Temi Mine, including the Mine; also Freehold
Land, Mining Leaseholds, Machinery and Plant,
Tools and Stores, Diamond Drill Buildings and
Houses.
Group B. The Aerial Ropeway (subject to re-
moval from the Freeholds), and two Leases in
connection therewith.
Group C. All the Machinery, Plant and Build-
ings, Tools, etc., comprising the Crude Oil
Works at Murrurundi, excepting, however, the
freehold land, dwelling-houses and cottages, and
the Railway Siding, etc., but including pumps
at Page River.
Group D. All the Railway Material and Siding
(subject to removal) ; also Railway Bridge over
Page River, and Pipe-line from Page River to
the Works Reservoir, and thence to the Works.
Group E. Freehold Land at Murrurundi (five
parcels) and houses and cottages thereon; also
Mountain Reservoir Leases, Mountain Reserv.oir
and Mountain Pipe-line and Tanks.
Group F. Freehold Land, and other assets at
Hamilton, New South Wales, as more fully
described under Section 2.
Group G. Seventeen Oil Tank Waggons of four-
wheel type to carry 2740 gallons each.
4. . . ,
OR ALTERNATIVELY. TENDERS are invited
for EACH PARCEL OR LOT of Land, Machinery
and Plant, Tools and Sundries, as detailed
AND SET OUT IN THE SCHEDULE.
The Vendors reserve the right to elect, whether
Tenders shall be accepted:—
(1) As a whole.
(2) By sections or partly by sections and partly
by groups or lots.
(3) By groups or partly by groups and partly by
sections or lots.
(4) By lots or partly by lots and partly by
sections or groups.
TENDERS, under above alternatives, numbered
respectively 1,2, and 3, are being called for simul-
taneously in England and Australia. But Tenders
under the above alternative number 4 are onlv called
for in Australia. The Lots are more fully described
in the schedule, which, with Conditions of Sale and
forms of tender, may be had on application to the
undersigned, or to:—- .
Mr W E. BOOTH, Local Receiver and Manager,
The British-Australian Oil Company, Limited,
Equitable Building, 350 George Street, Sydney.
Mr J NICOL, Crude Oil Works, Murrurundi.
Mr A. G. LYON, Refinery Works, Hamilton.
Messrs. FELL RANKIN, MORRISON & CO.,
Equitable Building. Melbourne.
Messrs. DAVID FELL & CO., 79 Queen Street,
Brisbane. . ~ . TT ,
Messrs WISE & INGLIS, Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
Messrs. JOHN F. KEY, REID & CO., 37 Steam-
ship Buildings, Currie Street, Adelaide.
Messrs. RANKIN, MORRISON & CO., Emanuel
Buildings, Perth, W.A.
Tenders, endorsed as provided in the conditions,
nd addressed to the Receiver or the Liocal Receiver
accordin' 11 as the Tender is from outside Australia
r within Australia), must be in the hands of the
teceiver or the Local Receiver (as the case may
,e) not later than noon on the 15th July, 1919.
The highest or any tender not necessarily accepted.
Dated at Svdney this 26th day of March, 1919.
SLY & RUSSELL,
attorneys for the General Investors and Trustees,
Limited, and John Macdonald Henderson, Trus-
tees for the Debenture Stock Holders of the
British-Australian Oil Company, Limited.


WHY NOT CONSULT
THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE
(STATE GUARANTEE), WHO ACTS AS
EXECUTOR, TRUSTEE, ADMINISTRATOR, ATTORNEY and AGENT.
Expert, Efficient and Economical Management.
Write or call for full particulars, CULWULLA CHAMBERS, 67 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
T. W. GARRETT, Public Trustee.
YG
eOORD^SO*
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
ft*
DT
.Swift & Company litd., Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney'Zl
Insure with AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
Head Office: Corner Pitt
& King Streets, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: 50 Queen Street, Melbourne. 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
FIF.E & ACCIDENT INSURANCES EFFECTED.
PROMPT SETTLEMENTS. EQUITABLE DEALING.
SYDNEY H. CARY'. Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
Ideal for Holiday or Week-end Wear.
I*l
Smart cut, easy fit and perfect tailor-finish distinguish this
“Warrigal” Sports Suit
in all Australian Wool, £3/15/-
Handsome Dark Grey Tweed, made with yoke back, i-belt,
no vent, 3 buttons, unlined coat. Trousers have permanent
turn-up bottoms, side, hip and fob pockets. All sizes.
Comfort and durability, moderately priced.
* "f
Men’s Outfitters,
309 and 311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Goody Two Shoes”
Criterion “Nothing but the Truth”
Royal “The Sign of the Cross ’
Palace “Jack and Jill”
Tivoli “The Better ’Ole”
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
Haymarket Hippodrome Wirths’ Circus
Glaciarium Ice Skating
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Going Up”
Royal “The Silent Witness”
King's Harry Lauder
Tivoli “The Officers’ Mess”
Princess’s “The Days of ’9B”
Hoyt's De Luxe & Lyceum ... Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Guaciarium Ice Skating
Another accidental baby was produced in
another American drama, “The Silent Wit-
ness,” at Melbourne ltoyal on Saturday.
But far from being a detail, as in “Common
Clay,” the poor kid happens in an affection-
ate prologue and is the basis of the excite-
ment 18 years later, when his supposedly-
dead father turns up to defend him on a
charge of murder and incidentally partici-
pate in a glorious reunion with his long-
suffering and sainted mamma. It is the
matter of his mothers outraged honor which
thrusts Bud Morgan into the criminal court.
The wealthiest pup in the college, where Bud
works for his schooling, sneers at the hero’s
origin. In the subsequent fight the traducer
is killed and Bud looks like a candidate for
the electric chair. But Bud’s father,
Richard Morgan, is prospective Governor of
the State, and the discovery of his son
changes his strong official interest to tem-
pestuous bias in favor of the accused.
Thereupon, as prosecuting attorney, he drags
in Science to prove that the corpse was the
victim of misadventure. Evidently the
question of Bud’s improper arrival into the
world is left to be settled after the curtain
comes down, though no doubt his papa
(Frank Harvey) easily convinces him that
only a cruel Fate prevented papa from
marrying mamma. Harvey is always rather
too demonstrative. Both his gaiety and his
gloom are translated into gymnastics. The
previous afflictions of Muriel Starr as an
unmarried mother have already damaged her
voice considerably, but in the present in-
stance her broken tone is a passable counter-
feit of a soprano ruined by weeping. Louis
Kimball, as the beautiful Bud, is an Edition
de luxe of 'the mother’s darling who was
introduced into English literature by Dean
Farrar. Atholwood has the acceptable part
of old Rigsby, who speaks up for the noble
lad with a throaty effusiveness. Sidney
Stirling, as a pushing young lawyer, gets
palpitation of the intellect with every
thought of his superlative genius. Ethel
Morrison merely needs a little more rouge
“THE SILENT WITNESS," AT
MELBOURNE ROYAL.
Louis Kimball as Bud (charged with mur-
der) and J. B. Atholwood as Rigsby,
his loyal supporter.
and a little less Blood to adapt her English
dowager-type for the part of his middle-aged
sister Ruth. Styan, as the father of Bud’s
deceased enemy, Wilbur Weldon, becomes so
gusty in his fury that one can hardly face
him without a wind-screen. Norman Lee
is safely wrapped in the egotism of the cad-
dish young Wilbur, and Marion Marcus
Clarke, Norma Mitchell, Bertha Ballenger,
and Edwin Lester warm their little parts
into some semblance of life. The play is
highly melodramatic in spots, though the
illicit baby motif is becoming rather tedious.
What with “The Silent Witness,” “Common
Clay,” and other similar shrieks, Melbourne
lloyal is becoming a foundling hospital.
Sydney Opera House shelters all the con-
spirators in the upheaval. Ismalia Melida,
the Armenian girl, has got hold of a sympa-
thetic ally in Eugenie Duggan ; Claude Tur-
ton as Markham looked the sailor’s part, hut
by his sleuth methods betrayed that he be-
longed to the secret service. Madge Hope
was the chief upholstery of the harem until
a piece of whipcord finished her off; and, all
round, the company tells the story very well.
'I-
Until Saturday night Allan Wilkie will
continue to be the noble “Squaw Man” at
the Royal (Sydney). The present Cash
Hawkins (Carlton Stewart) nightly runs a
risk of being shot from the auditorium by
the man from Arizona who balanced the mad
Chinaman’s account with five leaden full-
stops from a borrowed police revolver. The
shooting may happen during the fine scene
where the drunken bully in the woolly
trousers rushes into the western bar and
demands that everyone drink with him on
pain of death. On Saturday night the trans-
continental train was so interested that it
refused to start. Frediswyde Hunter-Watts
has praised for her “restrained” acting
at Nat-U-Rich, the devoted Red Indian maid
who speaks like a typewriter being operated
by a learner. The dramatist did all he
could to restrain the character —did practi-
cally everything except tie a bag over the
girl’s head and handcuff her. Another
critic objects that “there is not depth enough
in Charles Lawrence’s delineation of the
part of the Earl.” About what is the aver-
age depth of earls, and do they ever have to
be dredged? In conclusion, the actor who
played the Indian chief got the proper
rooster effect. On Saturday, “The Sign of
the Cross” will draw the people who like a
little melodrama with their religion.
* * * *
“The Better ’Ole” still offers to supply
Sydney with entertainment and shelter from
the vile weather. Umbrellas to be piled
in the cloakrooms of the Tivoli.
* * *
With black, wintry skies overhead and
umbrellas everywhere, the Sydney amuse-
ment-hunter puts on his goloshes and
splashes into town in search of songandance.
“Goody Two Shoes,” the big panto, at Her
Majesty’s, has 350 people supplying the re-
quired goods, and generally there is a press
of customers round the ticket-box.
* * * *
“Nothing but the Truth,” with M. B. Fig-
man as the veracity-monger, is still going
strong at Sydney Cri.
* * * *
Two Australian girls helped to make the
bi. S. Wales State Orchestral Concert on
Saturday the great success it was. Syd-
ney-trained Dasmar Thomson drew a warmth
and color from her violin in the Mendelssohn
concerto that many an imported artist might
envy. Patti Russell, who has been singing
with the Rigo Opera Co., added her sweet
and true (though now and then rather thin)
high notes. “Mignon” again held pride of
place, and the National Anthem poured over
an audience mellow with contentment.
* * * *
Wirths’ circus, menagerie and water panto-
mime, founded by the late Noah, is not likely
to move on from its present address, Sydney
Hippodrome, for some time. Business is
too alluring. There's no see-one-circus-see-
the-lot about this show. The swimming and
diving performances by Dick Cavill and party
of Australians in the flooded arena alone put
Wirths’ entertainment in a class by itself,
and the very skilful troupes of gymnasts help
to keep it there.
* * * *
Two Australian girls are the stars in this
week’s Sydney shadow shows. Enid Bennett
at the Haymarket and Hoyt’s is guilty of
fascinating her own husband, and earns the
title of “The Vamp”; Sylvia Bremer goes
through tremendous heart throbs in “The
Common Cause,” and displays pretty gar-
ments and Red Cross uniform to equal advan-
tage on the Lyceum screen. Louise Huff
teases her lover by personating herself and
her own maid, with whom the poor young
man falls equally in love. “T’other Dear
Charmer” is the name of the amusing trifle.
Handsome Virginia Pearson pays “Her
Price” at the Piccadilly and the Australian,
and Tom Mix secures Fame and Fortune at
the same houses. Constance Talmadge is
in “A Pair of Silk Stockings” at Crystal
Palace and Strand.
He * sjs %
Sydney Glaciarium will open to-night for
ice-skating, the first chance local enthusiasts
have had to put on the steels since the war
started in 1014.
“Jack and Jill” still slide down the hill
from the well at the Sydney Falace; and
Barry Lupino is as skittish as ever. It
takes a lot of mirth to counteract the daily
inch of rainfall from a leaden sly, but the
Tait, Bailey and Grant combination try
bravely and with a lot of success.
** * *
Going Up” is still going on at Melbourne
“Nothin " but the
Truth." at Sydney
Criterion.
Pirie Bush as Clarence
Van Dusen.
Majesty’s, thanks
mainly to its sport-
ing interest. If the
show had only its
moderate allow-
ance of humor,
legs and hustle to
keep it going it
might have gone off
before now: but,
somehow, the
doubt whether
Frith will try his
luck against the
Frenchman in the
air becomes a burn-
ing question, and
the multitude’s
imagination is fired
by it. People get
to believe in that
aviation stunt,
even as they be-
lieved in the race
which the weird
Arcadian Boy used
to win on the gee-
gee that had previ-
ous 1 y bitten a
lump out of PeUr
Doody. All the
incidental love-
making turns upon
Frith’s aerial pro-
spec t s, and the
wager attaching
thereto seems
vaguely account-
able for the pas de
deux of Mad g e
Elliott and Cyril Ritchards. The brightest
incident of the show is the duet danced by
those young people.
❖ v ❖ sj«
These latter days of “Lady Frayle” at
Melbourne Tivoli have been troubled by
much sickness in the cast. Celia Ghiloni
and some others have emerged from their
enforced retirements, but the last time this
journal took an observation of the Mclntosh
entertainment both Vera Pearce and Bert
Clark were out of action. Fortunately
Steyne was doing very well, as the amazing
butler, in Clark’s shoes, and his method of
expressing his feeling for Marie Le Varre
left little to be desired. All the original
principals, plus Lottie Sargent, are due in
a new musical comedy programme on Satur-
day, the title thereof being “The Officers’
Mess.”
*❖ * *
At Melbourne King’s, last Saturday night,
Harry Lauder broke the news of his inten-
tion to stay another week. The same Gen-
eral Desire who induced him to revive “The
Softest o’ the Family” had persuaded him
to make June 12 his last night in Melbourne,
after devoting h’S positive, final farewells
to revivals of ditties that are row old enough
to come as good as new.
** * *
At Melbourne Princess’s “The Days of
’08” are still providing an uncomfortable
time for the dirthy redcoats and correspond-
ing glory for the noble pathriots who scrap
for Ireland in speech and song. There
never was a play of the period that didn’t
talk the opposition to death: but in this
piece there is the additional power of Denis
Ivehoe’s warble which, when screwed up
to its highest pitch of admiration for ould
Erin, is calculated to make Colonel Melling’s
regiment hoist the white flag.
Hoyt’s (Melbourne 1 have commandeered
Ethel Clayton for a week in “Woman’s
Weapons.” However, it’s silent drama, so
the chief weapon is spiked. Close on Ethel’s
heels follows the volatile John Barrymore
in “On the Quiet,” a screen version of a
Willie Collier piece which gets its best
laughs from the hero's ludicrous escapes
from farcical dilemmas. At the Melba the
week began with William Desmond in “Not
x.iy Sister,” and to-day Maurice Costello and
Alice Joyce are hurrying into view in “The
Captain’s Captain.” “A Pair of Silk Stock-
ings” were never filled with anything nicer
than Constance Talmadge at the Britannia
for three days this week. The new feature,
showing the cute
nigger Sambo and
Baby Osborne in
“Dolly’s Vacation,”
isn’t likely to efface
fond memories of
Constance.
“Jack and
Jill,” at
Sydney Palace.
Joe Brennan
as the Regent.
Emelie Polini gets a chance to show her
versatile talent in “Eyes of Youth,” at
Adelaide Royal, with a strong supporting
co. Fitzherbert, so long an Andersonian
villain at the Tivoli, gets a chance in
Mackay’s late part, and Olive Wilton also
rises to new opportunities. She with
Bryant and Raymond Lawrence makes quite
a Shakspearean frolic of Shaw’s “How He
Lied to Her Husband,” which Gregan
McMahon put up as a curtain-raiser to “The
Pigeon.” Adelaide’s own Repertory work
had already made both these pieces locally
familiar; and McMahon, himself playing
finely one of the better-dead outcasts, en-
gaged Ivy Stacey, of Adelaide, to repeat her
old success as the other. Eardley Turner
revels in the sketch of a drink-ridden cab-
man, and Greenaway is natural, even lov-
able, as the credulous benefactor. At the
Tivoli is the evergreen “Camille.” Redgrave
and Nellie Ferguson are a welcome improve-
ment on the “leads” seen there previously.
Cappelli—in fine voice—finishes his season
at the Majestic, and A 1 Bruce (with Rose-
buds) gives a funny, extravagant “Back to
Nature” sketch of American origin. In pic-
tures, West’s have strong naval stuff; also
an “Indestructible Wife,” in which Alice
Brady does great athletic stunts. If ever
she and Douglas Fairbanks get into the
same picture there should be bones broken.
He is at Wondergraph, giving up the in-
appropriate job of “massaging the canary”
for work more in his own line. The Pav.
(open all day) took over a successful film
from West’s —a very useful arrangement.
Australian smokers will soon be able to
secure a pipe made in Australia by returned
soldiers at Carlton (Vic.)- The co., being
fortunately unable to import the required
machinery, had it made on the premises. The
first unit is now in operation, and 30
crippled men are employed ; and if smokers
support the industry as it deserves, it will
not be long before 250 to 300 returned men
will be employed in the factory. The Bar-
nett Glass Rubber Co. is co-operating to
the extent of making the rubberised stems.
The Vic. Government, having got the Leg.
Council elections off its worried mind, is
faced with the appointment of the Tramway
Trust. Seven nominees of the Government
are to take over control of all the lines, cable
and electric. The chairman is to draw
£l5OO a year, whilst the other six will re-
ceive fees of two guineas per sitting, or not
more than £l2O a year each. Of several
men who are said to be in the running for
the £l5OO job Tom Reynolds, an ex-mayor
of Coburg, looks promising. He has been
for some years chairman of the Melbourne,
Brunswick and Coburg Trust, and under his
management all goes well with this northern
suburbs concern.
“THE SECRETS OF THE HAREM.”
The audience learns, precise at eight,
The curiously rotten state
Of Turkish debtors’ laws;
And how the villain of the play
Would use the same, the selfsame day,
To aid his wicked cause.
The man who owed him cash he’d knife.
And similarly carve the wife;
The daughter then he’d sell
Into the Caliph’s harem dim.
This was the bloody plot and grim
He dreamed would go quite well.
Upon the murder act so bold
Walked Markham —sailor, heart of gold,
And fist as hard as steel.
To right and left his swift blows rained,
Till, by his bold behavior pained,
The murderers took to heel.
The maid (Ismalia was her name)
Was fair. Love sprang to instant flame.
The dead were borne away;
Then everyone got down to work,
Sailor, and comic man and Turk —
It was their busy day.
Plot countered plot, loud shots rang out.
The comic pair dashed all about.
The gallery was in Heaven.
At length the maid was safe outside
The harem gate, and Markham’s bride,
Betrothed, at just eleven.


BE ON THE
SAFE SIDE.
The safe side during these
midwinter days is the side
of comfort, warmth and
good health.
You can be warmly clad if
you
Wear a
MURDOCH
Overcoat.
Ye offer splendid Overcoat
Values that will appeal to
thrifty men. Here are two
specials that merit your
attention.
Murdoch’s
in Park Street Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
COMPLETE OUTFITTERS
FOR MEN AND BOYS.
Men’s Raglan
Macintosh
Waterproof
Overcoats
in Fawn Material—•
splendid wet-weather gar-
ments, smart and dressy,
too.
601-
Showerproof
smartly cut from
quality fabrics,
and well
tailored in
every detail,
Raglan sleeves,
half-belt at
back, check
lined, in new
Brown and
Fawn shades.
Ideal coats for
showery
weather, and
splendid value,
551-
J >
s:
We have a size to fit every man. Call and try on
your size to day. Write Desk R, giving height and
chest measurements over coat, if you cannot call.
iiftmmiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiimiiiiiMiiHiiiiiiniiiiimiiiiiiiiJiiiiinmiliiiHiiriiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiriimiiriHmnilirthiiiiiiiiTiiTrniiiiiiriiiiiiiiiimi
Inc liritish Westinghouse Electric and A\anu?arttirii\tf fn i trt
iiiiiiiiiiiimiiimiimiiniimiiinimimnniMunnimu’Hiimiiimiiril
Electric Meters
and Instruments
-r-
Meters and Instruments of all types are designed,
manufactured, and tested at Trafford Park,
Manchester, by the British Westinghouse Electric
and Manufacturing Co., Ltd.
There are sufficient types for you to select one
exactly suited to your requirements whether for
switchboard or portable use.
They are sensitive without being delicate and
perfectly dead beat.
They embody all the latest improvements in their
design and construction. They are given a high
grade finish and present a pleasing appearance.
They combine ideal simplicity with permanent
accuracy, unimpaired by temperature changes,
throughout a long life.
Portable types are compact and light, in neatly
finished dust-proof cases.
The accuracy of Westinghouse meters is a safe-
guard against loss of revenue and their use reduces
inspection and maintenance costs to a minimum.
The highest grade of measuring instruments is
the only grade for your purpose.
SEND YOUR ENQUIRIES TO NEAREST OFFICE.
rstinoliouse
Manchester
AUSTRALIAN OFFICES:—
81 William Street, Melbourne. 14 Martin Place, Sydney.
AGENTS:—
ELDER, SMITH & CO„ LIMITED,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Perth.
Agents in New Zealand: Turnbull and Jones, Ltd.,
Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, and Dunedin.
... ~ " • - gland.
11111111111111111
9
&
m
Ml . m
1
1
* j
i
/>
Hi?
. W&
i
. .
i
HI
-
Jl .1
u
GENERATOR and SELF-STARTING
MOTOR BRUSHES for All Systems,
including DELCO, REMY,
WESTINGHOUSE, AUTOLITE,
APPLECO, BIJUR, etc.
NiEHOFF
... .
jSff ~ * "
'• ■ ■
The main feature of the NIEHOFF “Spares” is “Quality.”
They are made from only the very best material, and are
correct duplicates of all standard systems.
The Contact Parts are made in Platinum, Iridium for
Magnetos, and Tungsten for Battery - Distributor Systems.
Complete range of parts in stock for all cars.
MOODY <& CO.,
Australian Distributing Agents, 343 Kent Street, Sydney.
'Phone : CITY 1740, 1741.
Victorian Agent: J. J. MEYER, 117 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
CONDENSERS, SLIP RINGS,
and SPARE PARTS for All
Magnetos and Ignition Systems.
PAUL G. NIEHOFF, Chicago.
Factory Reps.—THOMPSON, MEGGITT & CO. LTD., Daily Telegraph Buildings, Sydney.


USE
fc XTR A HARU
mm
and give your home a bright and cheerful interior. Require no
skill in application, are hygienic, artistic and very hard-wearing.
Ask your dealer, or send 1/1 in stamps for an Boz. trial tin, to
I
FINE
SUPER
TAUBMANS LIMITED
VARNISH MAKERS,
232 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
492 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
381
aim
i&SSB*
nogs*
Jgs g
Vms
s**r
mx-s
rages
92»*£
U* " J
• •••; ■•:■
M
FREE
TRIAL
BOTTLE
The Perfect
Emulsion
Prescribed by the Medical Profession.
/ngier’s Emulsion is the most palatable, the most
cream-like, the most perfect of all Emulsions. Even the
most fastidious take it with pleasure, and it agrees
perfectly with delicate, sensitive stomachs. Those who
have found other Emulsions distasteful, should try
Angier’s, and note the difference; it always pleases.
Prescribed by the Medical Profession for twenty-five
years, it is a standard remedy of proved value, equally
useful for adults dr children.
Send name -nd address, 4d. postage, and mention this paper.
ANGIEK CHEMICAL CO., LTD , 233, Clar. nee Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
POVERTY
POINTS
MOET &
CHANDON
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
"Top 0.”: Frank liigo reckons he has both
musical and moral right to the services of
the N.S.W T . State orchestra, and has already
argued the matter with Yerbrugglien. He
regards the orchestra as the pick of the
musical bunch, and says grand opera would
guarantee the players at least six perform-
ances a week, which is more than they can
count on now. The Government can come
in any way it likes—sub-let the orchestra,
take a chance on percentage basis, or run the
whole show at its own prices—and, ns far
as he is concerned, the name “Rigo” can be
buried. While the argument rages, a valu-
able Australian songbird,. Nellie Leach,
awaits the verdict with her trunk already
labelled “America.”
“Petramos”: Dear old Charlie Taylor’s
death brought back to me one of the big
thrills of my early youth. It was at the
Institute in a little six-by-four town in South
Aus., and my hair rose when the hissing
locomotive rushed on to the stage, throwing
out real sparks, and just missed the pretty
lady who had been tied to the rails. When
Charlie died, I looked up a reference book to
find out the stage dimensions of the hall in
that town; “Side wall to side wall, 13ft.;
depth, lift.” Those old producers did won-
ders—when we were boys.
“Jeune Premier”: The well-meaning
Bunder” remarks (B. 22/5/T9), re the
new Mummers’ Union, “Now the English
“Nothing hut the
Truth," at Sydney
Criterion.
Dick Donnelly (Ken-
neth Brampton )
listening for lies.
provincial artists
who have been
earning big money
in Australia and
playing leading
business have had
their toes trodden
on. The result is
the Actors’ Feder-
ation.” This kind
of sneer cuts no
ice, for there hap-
pens to be a circu-
lar in existence
which contains the
names of office-
bearers of the
A.F. In this circu-
lar those who run
may read that out
of the eight names
printed five , of
them belong to
Australian natives.
These include the
secretary, the trea-
surer, the trustees and a vice-president.
“Eardley Turner”: I don’t know what
the “spoilt actor” may have done to incur
the wrath of the splenetic “Peter” (B.
22/5/’l9), but I do know that he is not
getting a fair deal. “Peter,” inveighing
asrainst “a freedom of behavior” which he
alleges was indulged in by J. and N. Tait’s
Repertory crowd, says it permitted the
aforesaid “ispoilt actor” to “mount the
model-stand in ‘The Pigeon’ and deliver his
few lines like a speech from the throne.”
Well, the unfortunate mummer accused of
such dastardly conduct was following the
author’s explicit instructions. _ Here are
Galsworthy’s stage-directions, introduced in
the middle of a speech given to Timson, the
drunken ex-cabman: “He strikes against the
dais and mounts upon it." This “Peter”
will find in the easily-procurable printed
copy of “The Pigeon” if he will trouble to
look; for it would appear that it is not the
“hardened pros.” but their spiteful critics
who are “too disinterested, or too lazy, to
read the play to learn the author’s inten-
tion.” (Spoilt actor, indeed! Such criti-
cism as "Peter” indulges in would spoil
the best actor ever born.
“Ike P.”: Our George Cross has done well
in the U.S. and is now producer at the
Liberty Theatre, Oaklands, one of the big-
gest stock houses in America. When George
got there the Liberty had a leading juvenile
who did what he liked. He came half an
hour late to George’s first rehearsal, and for
the first time in his life was called down.
He took it fighting and got all he wanted.
It was a great time for the press agent. The
management stuck to Cross and the ’Murkan
lead went on the resting-list.
“P.”: Allan Wilkie is game. He gave
Perth “Mrs. Warren’s Profession,” is the
only actor in Australia who has ever staged
and acted in Wilde’s “Salome,” and offered
pretty good Shakspeare at 35., 25., and Is.
He was the Julius Knight of “the East”
before he came this way. Now he’s in stock,
and I wonder how he’ll stand it. The aver-
age producer in stock works 16 hours a
day—longer if he is also playing parts—and
the classier the production the more arduous
the labor and study. In yellow melodrama
all parts are more or less stereotyped. The
villain, at a loss for the right words, may
always fill the*gap with “Curse him a thous-
and times !” Wilkie’s shows demand closer
studies. Up to ’flu time Frank Neil had
produced and played in 49 productions in 52
ANOTHER EXCUSE.
SIS: “Why do actors marry, Joe?"
JOE: “ Why — er—perhaps they — er — consider
it — er—ultra Bohemian!"
weeks at Newtown Majestic (Sydney). In
Auckland Brandon-Creraer produced and
acted 60 plays in 60 weeks without duplicat-
ing. llow long Wilkie can keep going with
weekly changes in a better type of show I
don’t know, but the only chance for rest he’ll
get will be when he is playing a r6le ne
knows well enough to act in his sleep.
“Ox” : The exuberance of press-agents has
its drawbacks. Before the Department made
theatrical managers responsible in the
event of the imported actor not paying
his income-tax prior to departure, it had
many an argument with Ilamfat owing to
his salary having been advertised at five
times its true amount. The Department
has its ghoulish moments, too, by the way.
In the horrible Sussex-street (Sydney) fire
in which all the members of a family except
the father lost their lives, a considerable
amount of money was recovered from the
debris. Soon after the tragedy the Tax
authorities were asking the survivor why no
returns had been furnished.
“Professor” Felix, lately showing the
“baby” elephant Madan about Australia,
reckons that he is dead out of luck. The
animal died at Broken Hill; and just at the
same time the Napoleon Hotel in Adelaide
sued him for damage done by the ponderous
infant when playing up in its yard. It broke
dozens of bottles and two crates, tore off and
tore up the cover of a motor-car, and, accord-
ing to the evidence, would have torn the
wheels off if the car had not been removed.
Felix merely pleaded that the beast did not
belong to him; but the Adelaide Local Court
gave judgment for the £6 ss. sued for, which
it called a singularly moderate claim.
“A.” : The Majestic Theatre, Adelaide, had
its third birthday on June 2. Its site is
historic. White, the tailor, had his famous
rooms on the spot, and there Carandini,
Anna Bishop, Walter Montgomery and Mrs.
Scott Siddons appeared, and Fairclough and
Chas. Clarke gave recitals. White's Rooms
tventually became Garner’s Theatre, then
the Bijou, then the Tivoli, which Mclntosh
took over on Rickards’s death. When the
present Majestic was built it fell to Fuller.
“S.S.”: Mrs. G. B. W. Lewis is still in
operation in London. A professional paper
speaks of Miss Rose Edouin as having recov-
ered from a recent illness and being back in
harness. I saw her play “Hamlet” at the
old Bijou in Melbourne getting on for 30
years ago, and she must have been a woman
of 40 then. Her Hamlet was a grievous
mistake. Hamlet may not have been an
athletic male, and it is possible he was more
than chubby, but I have never dreamed of
him with a pronounced bust and distinctly
feminine in outline from neck to heel. One
unkind local critic said : “This lady’s attempt
at the melancholy Dane suggested Hamlet
less than some rude person who had stolen
his clothes.”
“0.K.”: Woodrow Wilson gave his Presi-
dential policy away to Britain when he
delivered a speech from his private box in a
New York theatre concerning the “beauty”
of a comedy called “Uncle Sam.” When it
got to London it turned out to be a war-
tinted reminder of “Potash and Perlmutter,”
in which the two Jew partners are trans-
formed into a pair of hyphenated Huns
(Pfeiffer and Block), who are supposed to
be the loyalest and cheeriest Americans
going. Also their German relations are
presented as truly naturalised Yanks in fact
as well as in fiction. Wilson’s gushful
blessing from the private box was mere “kid-
ding” to the Hyphenated Huns who sang der
“Star-spangled Banner” in public and
prayed “Deutschland Über Alles” in bed. At
that time he was talking No annexation, No
compensation, and other things that he now
wishes he hadn’t mentioned.
Tom Walls, the first and best Peter Doody
Australia saw, has taken the short step sepa-
rating his line of business from Variety, and
has appeared at London Coliseum. An imi-
tation of another old friend, G. P. Huntley,
is the best thing he does—and probably the
easiest. May Moore Duprez, the “jolly
Dutch girl” of years ago, is on the same bill.
“Glen Huntly” : How many “Silver Kings”
appeared at metropolitan theatres in Aus-
tralia before Allan Wilkie? I recall Wilson
Barrett, Titheradge, Walter Bentley, Julius
Knight. llemy Kolker and William Desmond,
Their Nellies were Henrietta Watson, Annie
Mayor, Maud Jeffries, Irene Browme, Oia
Humphrey and Irby Marshall respectively.
“II.O.” : The Poverty Point announcement
(B. 22/5/T9) that Oscar Asche has pro-
vided some new and startling haberdashery
for “Chu Chin Chow” reminds me of Tree.
Strolling one night into His Majesty’s
(Tree’s own London theatre, where the
show is housed) he announced : “I have come
to have another look at ‘Chu Chin Chow’; I
hear it has been re-undressed.”
“Orb”: The wired leading lady, who was
inadvertently hoisted up when she attempted
to uimp from a burning house, as narrated
by “Arab” (B. 15/5/’l9), reminds me of
“To the West,” with Alfred Dampier, at
Bendigo. William Holman, sen., and Charles
Field were to have a desperate struggle on
the edge of a cliff, and both had to fall over
into the sea. Whilst the show was proceed-
ing the two actors complained that the wires
whic'h were to sustain them had not been
tested. “Oh, very well,” said the ever un-
ruffled Dampier. “Mr. Field, please stab Mr.
Holman, R.U.E., and then commit suicide.
It’s really more effective, and we’ll cut the
cliff business altogether. I hate these new-
fangled wires,” continued the easy-going old
boy. “I remember when I played in ‘Notre
Dame,’ as a young man, I used to actually
climb up a rope, unassisted, hand over hand,
for 40ft.” He sighed. “When I put that
play on now, the rope is cut.”
“Peter”: The late Wybert Stamford did
not play Nanoleon in “The Lady Dandies”
as alleged (B. 22/5/T9). He Bonaparted
in “The Duchess of Dantzic,” wherein he
made a startling impression by his ghastly
make-up. As a matter of fact, Napoleon
was Wybert’s AVaterloo. He never in-
truded his faraway manner on public notice
again.
“Smike”: A small, myopic person lately
chased H. B. Irving in London, howling out
after him, “Mr. Zangwill! Mr. Zangwill!”
Irving took no notice, but strode on until
bis pursuer caught up and got as far as
“Oh! I say, Mr. Zangwill”—when H.B.
turned on him and in his silkiest voice
said: “I am not Mr. Zangwill, my good
man ; but if you will wait a moment I will
make a face like him.”
Everybody who is anybody in the English
theatrical way gets to the London vaudeville
houses these times. Three artists whom
Australia knew in the past—Dion Bouci-
cault; his wife, Irene Vanbrugh (leading
lady of J. L. Toole’s co. in Australia), and
Edmund Gwenn —were doing a turn together
at the Coliseum lately. They played
Barrie’s “Half-an-Hour.”
“Norbell” : When Benson joined our bellow
co he told us in confidence that he was
nearly related to the Shakspearean star, so
we expected something good. We were not
disappointed. He had a small part in lorn
from the Altar.” He had to make one en-
trance only, confess to a crime, go off stage,
and shoot himself. The property man was
to fire a gun “off” to give the necessary effect;
“GOODY TWO SHOES.” AT SYDNEY
MAJESTY’S.
The Kenna Brothers in search of the North
Pole, and Toly Claude singing of early
rising.
this was the cue for the hero to remark
that “a poor erring man. had now made full
atonement,” or words to that effect. On the
opening night, fortified with some liquor,
Benson got through his few broken lines
without mishap, and retired to commit
suicide. We heard the loud bang and the
hero prepared to spout; but he couldn’t go
on for an uproar in the wings. Glancing
off we saw Benson writhing on his back. He
groaned, and gasped and gurgled, and mut-
tered and exclaimed : “My God, I have killed
myself! Can this be death?” in the best
Bensonian manner, until he was dragged out
of sight by the outraged “props,” who was
unused to such verisimilitude.
One of the latest and most reckless of
Parisian comedies deals with a strike of
wives. The setting is Greece, 8.c. ; but
the treatment is entirely French. The
women, weary of a war that takes the me.n
away, agree to strike until peace is made;
and they get their way. Paris finds scream-
ingly funny the scene in which, at nightfall,
every husband home on leave is turned out-
of-doors and the dog set on him if he
attempts to get in again.
TO AN INDIGNANT LADY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I was told that the Actors' Federation was not
to become a trades union, and now that I learn it
is to become a union, along with the wharf-lumpers
and stage hands, I intend to resign.”
—“Chorus Girl” in Melbourne press.
Dear little girl of the gay front row,
Although your wage is absurdly low,
You have, I grant you, a queenly air,
Also of props an efficient pair
On which to carry your dignity,
Which fits like stockings at four-and-three.
The inches gained from your high-heeled shoes
Have helped you reach to some lofty views;
The promised gems of adorers wild,
It seems, have blinded your eyes, my child;
You’ll wish such tinsel you'd swapped for “tin,”
When your stockings hold only shanks grown thin.
Tlie fact, which no one disputes, is you
Are half the show —at a housemaid’s screw!
It’s not worth while to become a snob,
And talk of “art” when you moan your job;
Look at things in a sensible way—
Stage hands and feet are the self-same clay.
VICTORIA.
HARRISON C.
UNION REPRISALS.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
Hearing the actors are forming a strong trades-
union, and remembering the means adopted to beat
the “nationalists” on the wharves in Westralia.
They strove with “Hamlet.” On the list
Was handsome Hector Lord.
He was a stern non-unionist
By rival pros abhorred.
The management was forced to rake
Strange actors in a strike to break.
We came to that impressive point
Where Hamlet heaves a groan.
And says the times are out of joint;
Then everything was thrown.
From gallery and pit and stalls
Came offerings of cottage walls.
These were not customary gifts,
Not usual bouquets,
But old dead ducks and bits of lifts
And spokes of ancient drays;
And Hamlet, yelling in his pain,
Went down beneath the dreadful rain.
They ran some toilers to engage
To dig poor Hamlet up.
Free laborers upon the stage
Must drain a bitter cup.
To unionists obsessed with nark
They offer far too good a mark!
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


V
* '
mm
m
mm
.
& ■
m
*
: *
55
m
m a
■
>4is
if
- •>’
mm
§
■■
li Admiral SirD.Beatty ,
, iXr < iT*
vi
MMnBaBEMHgBaBBBBaBBMnHBaaaEaiMBMBMnaaiaBaBaraGgi
Copyright Watson's No. 10 WhisVy.
m
(TaR
: < rrw
m
\
Scotch
***>**'t fVa/acm
*""“* 'tiwndea
m
A NEW SERIES OF HISTORY MAKERS.
THE above portrait of Admiral Sir D. Beatty is one of a new series of drawines speci-
ally executed for us by W. Jardine. Reproduced on the finest of art paper, and being entirely
free from advertising matter, they make, when framed, a charming acquisition to the home.
The complete set, consisting of Admiral Sir D. Beatty, General Sir
Douglas Haig, General Sir W. Birdwood, General Sir W.
Robertson, General Foch, Vice-Admiral Sir F. C. D.
Sturdee, will be sent to any address on receipt of six penny (Commonwealth)
stamps. As the production is limited, we advise you to write and secure a set immediately to
JAMES WATSON & CO. LTD., 26 King; Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
WATSfI /vrs
¥ /“I I v. ......J I IkJ
J
W'/.


When you are on the border of your winter
of discontent try a nip of King George IV.
whisky—wonderful piek-me-up.— Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LIFIITED, Redfern, Sydney.
Goldfinder Soap
LEWIS &WhlTTy MELBOURNE &SYBNEY
L-IVE MEN PLAY GOLF.
The LIVE LEATHER BELT
*
I
Will help you win that match you have in mind.
This celebrated belt embodies the highest achievement in belt making. Every belt
carries the manufacturer’s guarantee of “Satisfaction or a New Belt,” and with each
belt is packed a guarantee coupon.
PRICE 10/6 AND UPWARDS.
McMIIXAN, DEERY & CO. LTD., 38 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Also, Farmer’s, Gowing’s and most up-to-date Men’s Mercers.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
"ON TOP" WITH
MICK SIMMONS
SURE CATCH TACKLE
The V.R.C., which rarely gets the better
of the A.J.C. as regards weather, expects to accom-
plish a two days’ meeting on Saturday and Monday
next. Nothing happened at Flemington whilst the
w'eather was good; and if the Sydney deluge misses
Melbourne sufficiently to allow racing, it will be a
boon to many books who are seriously thinking of
taking to beer and cheroots in place of wine and
Corona-Coronas. Time w»as when race meetings
were officially known as “fixtures.” AVhat with
Government interdicts and weather-postponements,
they are getting more like movable feasts.
* * * *
Herbert Power, who died in Melbourne
on Sunday, aged 84, was one of Australia’s greatest
sportsmen. The best horse he ever owned was
Merriwee, the Melbourne Cup (1899) and Vic. Derby
winner. Pendil, AVilari, Etra AVeenie and other
good ones also belonged to him. For many years
he was a pillar of hunting in A r ic., and lie was a
first-rate race-rider in his day. He had twoi sons,
both as good sportsmen as he was. One was killed
in the war; the other, Reggie, was badly wounded,
and is now back in Australia.
lolaus, L. Mackinnon’s fine-looking chest-
nut, won the Steeplechase at Moonee A’alley last
week. The topweight, Jacklin (lOst. 131 b.), fell
early in the proceedings. lolaus carried 9st. 131 b.
The Poseidon gelding, Telecle's, won the big handi-
cap with P. Kelly up.
T. O’Keefe, the jockey, accidentally
poisoned himself in Sydney last week. He had the
risky habit of drugging for head-pains, and he
overdid it. O’Keefe was one of the very best in his
line. He had latterly been riding in Queensland.
Racing begins again in Paris this month,
after a stoppage of nearly five years. Before the
war Longehamp, Bois do Colombes, Auteuil and
Maisons-Lafitte were amongst the loveliest race-
courses in the world. Brilliantly green tracks, as
smooth as billiard-tables, winding through mighty
oaks and elms, and lined near the stands and en-
closures with blazing flower-beds —they were all that
could be wished for from the aesthetic standpoint.
For racing purposes, however, and from the stand-
point of the general public, Randwick —king of all
courses —showed any of them points. The war has
done its bit to ruin them. Longehamp and Auteuil
were a maze of trenches a few months ago, and
barricades, machine-gun posts, and forests of weeds
covered all the rest around Paris.
* * * *
Had I Wist beat Syce Lad by a head, at
level weights (Bst. 101 b.), in the Q.T.C. St. Leger on
Saturday; and Mabel Syce filled third place. They
are all by that useful import Syce. Jessyce, also
by Syce, won the Novice Handicap at the same meet-
ing.
* * It *
Astonishment was caused by Lingle’s
defeat by Demeranthis in the King’s Plate (Q.) on
Saturday. But II mile isn’t long enough for him.
Anyhow, he’s about the unluckiest horse now racing.
He can run into a place in any company, yet rarely
wins. Meddick, who journeyed to Brisbane with
him, came into prominence by riding Sandbath
to orders at Randwick when that cross-grained brute
first won there. He rode Sandbath in winkers, and
without spurs or whip, and got away with such a
lead that he was never again sighted by the field.
An Australian named Coomber at a recent
meeting of the Ceylon Racing Club rode five winners
in six races. A faulty start alone prevented him
capturing every event on the card.
* * * *
Cynic, an imported horse, Avon the big’
hurdle event (it is worth £1500) at the Auckland
meeting last week. He is a five-year-old, by Henry
the First out of Synane, and is reputed to be one
of the safest jumpers in the game.
Some winners this season: Nightwatch,
Melbourne Cup; fan Or, Sydney Cup; Gloaming,
A.J.C. Derby; New Tipperary, Australian Cup;
Dependence, Adelaide Cup; Court Jester, AVilliams-
town Easter Cup; Sir Ibex, C. M. Lloyd Stakes;
Snub, King’s Plate and Governor’s Plate; Millieme,
A.J.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes. And all geldings.
What a game it is to improve the breed!
Desert Gold can still make her con-
querors travel. In M.L. Awapuni Gold Cup (11
miles) she clung to Sasanof right up the straight,
and he had to flee as if a greased devil w'ere after
him to win by half a length in 2min. 4 3-ssec. It
was the Magpie race over again.
One of the most uncertain things in racing
is the quality of the 3-year-olds that compete for the
season’s classic races. The owner of a fairly good
colt or filly never knows what he is going to be up
against in the rich w.f.a. races, whereas he knows
the youngster must be exceptionally smart tQ win
one of the big Cups. Some of the winners of the two
Derbies (A.J.C. and V.R.C.) have been great horses,
like Poseidon and Prince Foote. Others, like Sylvan-
ite and Bcragoon, were dual Derby winners because
they had nothing much to beat. An owner’s chance
of capturing one or more of the prizes dedicated to
3-year-olds is very much a matter of luck. Compare
the misfortune of Antonious, in having to meet Posei-
don every time, with the good luck of Eusebius in
taking the treble event, Caulfield Guineas, V.R.C.
Derby and Leger. There have been seasons when a
Eusebius couldn’t have captured one of the three
events. He has neither speed nor stamina to speak
about, but he happened to have mostly poor horses to
beat, also a bit of luck to beat the best of them
with. So the name of Eusebius is on the “roll of
fame” as the winner of a treble which Prince Foote
just failed to pull off. Nor has any previous 3-year-
old done the same trick. The son of Eudorus was
foaled under a lucky star.
Picnic racing has re-started in the far-
west of N. S. AVales, and the A r ie. hunting sea-
son opened last week after a long eclipse.
LES GLEE SON,
champion
middleweight of
Australia.
The easy-looking bush fences at Aspen-
dale Park (Vic.) bring down a lot of horses. In the
last ’chase there, out of 11 starters, one, Downright,
immediately broke his neck, and Sempronius ran off.
Sliammar fell opposite the judge’s box, and at the
next leap Bethune, Personality and Kidman retired.
Of the remaining five Royal Bill chucked it, Hob-
goblin and Resembler battled out the finish (the
latter winning) and Rathfarnham and Comeaway
drifted in later on. Of course the rotten class of
several of the entrants had something to do with the
farce.
* * * *
“Ingelara” : An angler was summoned at
Tocumwal (N.S.W.) police court recently for tres-
passing on the Murray River bank ; the other three
sides of the property being fenced. His solicitor'
contended that the land was not enclosed within
the meaning of the Act —-a river not being a fence.
The beak upheld the point and the case was dis-
missed. Practically the whole of the N. S. AVales
river-frontages are held by big landowners, who
refuse anglers access to the rivers. Notably in the
Monaro streams, which in some cases are as
strictly “preserved” as Scotch salmon-rivers. In
their case the Tocumwal decision should come in
handy. But, anyhow, it is time that N. S. AVales
followed the lead of ATctoria. In Vic. all land
must be fenced off one chain from the river and an
easy access provided.
The brilliant Gerald Patterson —he of the
unplayable serve—was beaten in the inter-Allied
tennis tournament in Paris by the steadier O’Hara
Wood. Patterson had, the day previously, well
heaten the conqueror of Decuqis, the famous French
player.
* * * *
Gerald Patterson further justified Brookes’s
judgment by easily winning the Surrey championship
singles, and, in partnership with Thomas, the doubles.
Surrey is the tennis county of England, and the
grass-courts of Surbiton, just outside London, are
among the best in the world.
* * * *
“G. 8.” : Before the w’ar Ron Thomas, who
lias just helped Patterson to win the Surrey (Eng.)
doubles, was S. Aus.’s best tennis-player. He has
a fine American serve, a good drive, and his r.et
work is perfect. His backhand strokes are not
quite severe enough; on the other hand, he is won-
derfully consistent. He may be only a second-rater,
compared with such men as Heath and Lycett, but
he is, anyhow 7, at the top of his class.
Henley (on Thames) Regatta is to be
revolutionised this year. The ’Varsity events,
formerly among the chief features, are practically
cut out. The Sculls ar.d Coxswainless Fours will
be for members of the Services only; and the chief
race of the two days—an eight-oared one for which
the King is giving a special cup—is also confined to
members of the fighting forces, British and Allied.
The powerful M.L. Army eight, which won recently
in France, should have a useful chance, and Aus-
tralia, with its best available, will take some beat-
ing. The Ladies’ Plate, first instituted in 1845,
and won since then with almost monotonous regu-
larity by Eton, will probably be cut out.
Last week's cable stating that Frank
Goddard had beaten Jack Curphey at the London
N.S.C., thereby winning the Lonsdale Belt, came as
a surprise to Australians. AVhat about Beckett, who
recently beat Wells in a match for the heavy-weight
championship of England? There is chronic trouble
between some of the British first-raters, the N. S.
Club committee and Lord Lonsdale. It is quite likely
that Beckett refused to have anything to do with
a contest involving the Lonsdale Belt. The noble-
man with the ginger side-levers adopts an anachro-
nistic attitude of patronage towards what is now not
so much the passing diversion of a few rich men
as a business. Of the Hollanders it was once said:
“In matters of commerce the fault of the Dutch
Is offering too little, and asking too much.”
That, in the opinion of the pugs, is the trouble with
the N.S.C.; and the thick-eared brethren are getting
sick of it.
Curphey has a better record as a soldier than as a
pug. He fought through three-parts of the war in
the Coldstream Guards. He was probably no more
of a match for Goddard than AVells was for
Beckett.
* * * *
A big crowd turned up at Sydney Stadium
on Saturday night to see the bucolic Cook reach
out for heavyweight Albert Lloyd’s scalp. Cook is
a hefty lad (lie was 13st. 81b. on the night, as
against Lloyd’s 12st. 81b.), as speedy as a welter,
and full of fight and punch. His eagerness brought
about his downfall. After winning every round up
to the fourth he swung an annihilating blow which
landed low. Lloyd fell, as though smitten by a 5.9,
and after the referee had put the count on him, so
as to be on the safe side, he was examined by a
doctor and presented with the palm of victory. If the
loser learns to aim his heavy stuff in the right
direction he should soon be Australia’s champion.
Fred Holland, the bald-headed conqueror
of Les Darcy, is to engage Kay at Sydney Stadium
next Saturday.
A 1 King stopped Herb Barker in seven
rounds at Sydney Stadium on Monday night. It
was a willing lightweight engagement while it
lasted, but with King always on top.
* * * *
“Wave” Geikie met the local Chinese
champion at Brisbane Stadium on Saturday night,
and got the decision in 20 rounds. For the first
time in the memory of the oldest inhabitant the
verdict was unanimously approved. Rud Kee is
the Mongol’s name; he is a busy and courageous
scrapper, but he lacks the Sydney boy’s experience.
Both fought as lightweights.
* # * #
Sydney Pickles, the Australian flier, was
reported last week to have abandoned the idea of
attempting the Atlantic flight, “in view of Hawker’s
mishap, and out of deference to the persuasion of
his wife.” It doesn’t sound like Pickles or his
family. His mother went for a flv with him across
the Channel over a year before the war, and they
had to take to the water —they were in a sea-plane
—half-way through the journey. He joined the
R.N.A.S. in 1914, and was one of the most daring
flight-lieutenants in that arm.
The A.I.F. drew with Middlesex last week
—the soldiers totalled 605 for 20 wickets; the
County 556 for 14. Middlesex is particularly strong
this .year.
* * * *
“G.H.8.” : Reviewing the Sydney Great
Public Schools rowing championship, The Bulletin
said: “The contest was one of brawn v. skill. Boy
for boy, Grammar were pounds heavier, barring the
cox.” The gross weight of Grammar eight was
89st. 101 b., average list. 31b. ; the gross weight of
St. Ignatius eight was 91st. 21b., average list.
541 b. The brawn part thus certainly belonged to St.
Ignatius. Skill and indomitable pluck won the race
from a crew who were equally skilful and plucky
but not quite fast enough. Grammar rowed for a
* mile behind the Igs’ boat, but demonstrated once
again that Grammar isn’t beaten until the gun is
fired. Igs, however, rowed a fine race. It is a
great pity that this important annual event is not
held on a Saturday instead of a Wednesday. It is
the cleanest bit of sport in Sydney, and a pleasure
to watch. Why not give the “old boys” a chance
to see it and in seeing it renew for a few minutes
their youth ? They manage these things better in
Melbourne, where 50,000 spectators viewed their G.
P. Schools’ race a few days ago.
*** ' *
South Aus. has a remarkable all-rounder
in Vic. Richardson. In inter-State cricket he is
brilliant as a bat and as a field ; he is one of the
best half-backs in the State; and, having a day off
last Saturday, he represented Sturt at lacrosse.
Largely owing to him Sturt destroyed North Adelaide
—27 goals to 2.
The New Zealand has amongst her crew
Joey Reid, lightweight champion of the AVest of
England. Reid has met and beaten many prominent
English boxers, and hopes to put them on before
he leaves Australia.
* * * *
The ’flu trouble has brought us back to
the days of ox-slow travelling. Perth trainer P. J.
Ward wanted a lightweight jockey in haste, and sent
to Sydney. It took the boy just four weeks to
reach Westralia.
* * * »
The N. S. Wales League selectors had
their work cut out to pick a team to meet M.L. next
Saturday. Hallett goes and AVall, of Balmain, enters.
This page would have liked to see Joass as
forward; and perhaps AVhite as full-back, in place
of AVall. Still, the combination chosen will take
some beating.
“R.J.A.” : Sydney Uni. (Rugby Union}
had too much combination for Glebe-Balmain o
Saturday. In fact the students are so good tnat
they ought to have two teams in the First , ra Sf*
A watering-down of the present 15 would make tne
competition more of a sporting event and less o
a massacre.
* * *
Balmain put up a great show v. Souths
at Sydney Cricket Ground on Saturday. The team
got to business right away, Schultz and Latta hav-
ing perfect command of the ball and badly outclass-
ing South’s forwards. They nullified to a great
extent the enemy’s splendid back division. What a
speedy champion H. Horder is! He and Cubitt, ot
Eastern Suburbs, are probably the best threequarters
ever seen in Sydney League football. ’Mains win
(24 —S) was better than it looks on paper..
For the rest Easts beat Wests (19 —10) and Glebe
Norths (16 —8). The premiership is now only half-
way through the first round, and already three
clubs are practically outed, while the chances of
two others are Buckley’s.
Wally Messenger (Easts) is like his
brother, the now extinct “Dally,” a great kicker of
N.S.W’. League goals. He got five in six attempts on
Saturday. Botli last year and the year before he
kicked 23. It amounts to a family trouble.
The sparkle in Sydney baseball is supplied
bv the pitchers. Last week-end, Leichhardt and
Waverley (level, so far) beat Kegworth (summer
premiers) and Petersham No. 2 (winter premiers).
The “goods” of pitcher Ford (.Waverley) have not been
banged for a run tnis season in three matches. A
man who did that in America would be a likely
candidate for President.
* * * »
The only Vic. League game worth watch-
ing on Saturday, from a sporting point of view,
was that between Souths and ’Don. It was won on
the post by Souths (70 —50). Saints ran away
from Geelong (46 —18), Eicke giving a wonderful
half-back display. Ttoy beat Richmond by 74 to
48. But the catastrophe of the day was experienced
by Melbourne, which could only put up 34 against
Carlton's 123 !
In a recent Vic. Motor C. C. mile handicap
race (cycle and side-cay) on the Werribec-road, R.
Finley (scratch) covered the mile in 57 l-ssec., a
record for Australia. He steered a Dunlop-shod
Excelsior.
* * * *
N. S. Wales Rifle Association put up the
shutters on part of its competitions on Saturday.
In “A” grade, Concord A (2937), Yorkshire Society
(2862), Ohatswood A (2846) and Police (2828)
shared Ihe prize-money. In “B” grade the scorers
were Mosman-Neutral Bay A (2981), Waverley A
(2913), Sutherland A (2898), and Edgecliff
(2860). These grades have given 50 clubs regular
practice during the season.
* * * *
V. P. Taylor, the Sydney aviator, has
cabled the London Daily Mail offering to attempt
the Atlantic flight “if given facilities.” If game-
ness were the only requisite he would be a 100 to 1
on chance. He enlisted in 1915—though very deaf
and the father of a grown-up family—and did well.
He held the record, at one time, of having been
thrown higher and oftener from mules and horses
than any man in the Artillery brigade to which lie
belonged. He is as courageous morally as he is
physically, neither drinks nor swears, and, in the
absence of a cleric of his denomination (R.C.), he
used to hold prayer-meetings. He has flown every
kind of air-machine, both lighter and heavier than
air, and holds British, French and Yankee aero cer-
tificates. Also he is a skilled engineer, and can
not only handle but make balloons. And yet when
he tried to ioin the Flying Corps, in the early
days in Egypt, red tape got to work and he was
turned down.
* * * *
The Parkes (N.S.W.) Municipal Council,
by five votes to four, refused on Friday to with-
draw the prohibition on Sunday games in parks
under its control. There is a simple means
by which sportsmen could stop harassment by
officious Sabbatarians. Let them institute proceed-
ings locally under the Lord’s Day Observance Act
against all those who habitually break it. Half
the wowsers in the neighborhood will be roped in,
and the Act will be exposed for the piece of medi-
eval idiocy it is.
* * * *
A shooting enthusiast was fined £5 in a
N. S. Wales police court last week for poaching on
Kuringai Chase. He had three dogs with him and a
quantity of ammunition and was carrying a
pheasant. Deer-shootir.g at National Park was a
popular and almost unchecked sport at one time,
and a good deal of it Still goes on. The fines (£5
for a first and £lO for a second offence) are too
small, really, for the purposes of prevention.
* * * *
In Adelaide Birthday Cup, to be run next
Saturday, AVee Gun (9st. 41b.), last year’s winner,
has to give 91b. to Gold Cuffs, who won in 1917.
Dependence, last month’s Adelaide Cup winner, is
better fancied than either, with Sst. 111 b.
* * * *
Ascot (N.S.W.) ponies enjoyed a racing
monopoly on Saturday, and punters had a remark-
ably good day. Six absolute favorites “got there,”
and with two exceptions the other winners were
well supported. The betting on the first race was
10 to one, bar one; and the animal barred (Gauge)
won at two to one on. AVhich indicates that the
books took care of themselves as well as was pos-
sible in the circumstances.
* * * *
A Geraldton (W.A.) fishing-boat crew ran
into millions of dead fish near Shark’s Bay recently.
The Perth Observatory officials say they were prac-
tically dynamited by a submarine upheaval which
occurred in the locality last month.
* * * *
H. Parsons won Vic. Motor Cycle Club's
championship this season with the aggregate points
in all events. He will ride at the coming Sydney
carnival.
THE ACCURSED TURF.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“She went to the races on Eight-hours’ Day and
when she came home she could do nothing but talk
about racing. She refused to get the children’s tea,
and as a result of the quarrel that arose she left
the house.” —Evidence in Tolano v. Tolano.
The Turf has been blamed for a number of things
Since racing and punting began.
The stony-broke pawner of watches and rings
(They’re mostly his wife’s, if a man)
Explains to his friends, as a matter of course,
That lie’s bust through his manly devotion to horse;
Though all know the genuine cause of his crash—
That ladies and liquor have swallowed the cash.
The clerk who embezzles a thousand or more
Explains, in the Criminal Court,
That dinners and cars weren’t responsible for
The fact that his ledger was short,
But simply his passion for taking the odds.
The Judge listens sadly and wearily nods.
He’s heard it from scores of embezzlers before;
lie finds the mendacious old story a bore.
It took the Tolanos a different way;
It ruined the love of their lives,
It caused Mrs. T. to go markedly gay
(She w'ho’d been the most perfect of wives).
From the day she came under the racecourse’s blight
She ceased to get tea for the children at night.
The Law was invoked, and its rigors enforced
And, now—all because of the Turf—they’re divorced.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


Why Wait Till You Get
¥
a Thrashing
before you learn to box?
Why run the risk of being an easy prey to the first “bully” that crosses
your path ?
Why take the chance of losing your prestige-—your manliness, in the eyes
of your fellows —through your inability to assert your rights when the
occasion occurs ?
Why not learn to defend yourself and become a REAL man —a man always
to be reckoned with —looked up to—and respected?
I Teach Boxing by Post
—teach you how to take your part—how to stand up
and deliver good hard punishment to any fellow who
dales to insult or belittle you.
I unfold to you my wide knowledge of the manly art
of self-defence- —-teach you every “hit,” “move” and
“stop” known to the world's leading boxers.
My instructions are very simple to follow, and you
will find my lessons both interesting and benefici n l.
You will be both pleased and surprised at the rapid
progress you will make under my personal guidance.
Write to-day for my interesting booklet, “Scientific
Boxing in Your Home,” which describes my methods,
terms, etc. Just write your name and address across
this advertisement and send it to me, with three
penny stamps for postage. I will know what you
mean.
CITY BESIDENTS desiring to avail themselves of
personal instruction are invited to call and inspect
my modern institute, and have a chat with me
about their requirements.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
“The all-round Champion Athlete of Australia,”
29 Municipal Building's,
82a Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
Ss
BRITISH IMPERIAL OILCO.LTD.
All -STATES 0 HEW ZEALAND
NO 2
The Racing Man
Rides
because in mighty “Powerplus"
he gets more in pace, power
and dependability than is his
in any other make
Catalogue from
Rhodes Motor Cycle Co. Pty. Ltd.
Russell Street - Melbourne
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOR
MINING, MILLING, etc.
INCLUDING
STEAfI ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL J3E POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO
THE SECRETARY
Box 229 G.P.0.,
MELBOURNE.
THE GENERAL MANAGER,
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
THE SECRETARY,
Box 220 Q.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
4-Speed Gear-Box for FORD s
\ KBEWS £ S.A.Ei
MMftioii' tftciuC Srtifttsi'WKt
jm currcrt of special i
SHIFTER 3*l AFt
’h >*
AS
including- FORD regular lOW
and HIGH gears, and an IN-
TERMEDIATE gear, and an
OVERSPEED super gear.
NEUTRAL position of the
gear change-lever gives an
ABSOLUTELY FREE EN-
GINE and ensures easy start-
ng. COMPLETE with Central
Gear Lever and Bracket and
all fittings—is fitted quickly
without alteration to chassis
or special tools.
ALL SPARE PARTS.
Two other special COMMER-
CIAL MODELS.
Westcott, Hazell & Co. Ltd.,
311 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
SUPPLIERS OF MOTOR ACCESSORIES.
A SEASONED SHAVER.
“Many’s the Razor I have tried, but there’s none
like the ‘Plum.’ ” So spoke a seasoned shaver, and
his experience is echoed by thousands of others.
Join the big crowd who swear by
THE “PLUM” RAZOR.
PRICE 10/6—POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
The above makes a handsome present.
“Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/2 Tube, post free.
All the above Post Free. Send for our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN
654 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
Tried and Trusted
The “PLUM”
Razor.
for Indigestion.
■
$
mk
w.
m pwiSliiS
3:‘ KYNO.Oti
KYNOCH
AMMUNITION
“PRIM AX” and “BON AX”
CARTRIDGES—KYNOCH made
and loaded. Both possess excellent shoot-
ing qualities, “PRIMAX” being the
highest-grade cartridge in a case
sold on the Australasian market, while
“BONAX” enjoys the largest sale of
any individual cartridge in the world.
Always specify KYNOCH Ammunition
when ordering from your dealer.
W British Made Throughout.
Wholesale only—Scottish House, 90 William Street, Melbourne.
Kynoch House, 277 Clarence Street, Sydney.
The“BURBERRY”
is unquestionably THE ideal
Coat for ALL-WEATHER Wear.
It is equally serviceable during a
light shower or a heavy down-
pour —so light that you are hardly
conscious of its weight —and
possesses a Dignity of Style and
Quality that make it the Aristo-
crat of the Overcoat World. The
Extensive Range
of Styles
we’ve just opened up comprises
the finest selection of “Burberrys”
ever received in Melbourne, and
includes the latest “Burberry”
Models for Men and Women. If
you cannot CALL—WRITE for
Post Free Catalogue and Price
List.
10 per cent. Discount
to Returned Soldiers.
Our new Mail Order Catalog is
now ready. Write for your
Copy to-day.
17*
m
W*
Lincoln, Stuart & Go. Pty. Ltd
244-54 Flinders Street, Melbourne.


CUT GOLD BARS.
A High-grade Tobacco specially packed
lor Farmer’s.
Mila in Flavor and of Exquisite Aroma, this
Tobacco admirably meets the needs of those
smokers who demand a sweet and cool
smoking medium. Cut from rich gold bars,
and specially packed for Farmer’s, it em-
bodies the very essence of Pipe-tobacco
excellence.
In two sizes . . .. Jib. lib.
Price.. .. •• 4/6 9/«
We Pay Carriage.
FARMER* /YDNEY
mm
m
m
m.
TOBAWO
PERFECT GOWNING
WITHOUT FITTINGS
Such is the craft of Shave,
Master Ladies Tailors and
Dressmakers of Melbourne, that
they are able to fashion perfectly
the most elaborate gown
or the severest tailor -
suit without fittings
Visits by Shave to Sydney
and Adelaide each
half-year, and to
Brisbane yearly
LADIES' TAILORS,
DRES SMAKERS
Centreway, Melbourne
To show in Sydney
shortly. Kindly enquire
Hotel Carlton for
opening date of display.
•j/J
a
\Aeltonian
IT 1 HIGH-CLASS
[specialties
Creams
Pastes
Cleaning § Preserving
ALL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANC LTD.
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne. ~
E. BROWN (§> SON 3 LONDON
AGENCIES • ALL - OVER • THE ■ WORLD
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warners
Rust Proof
Corsets
Jellicoe landed at St. Ivilda on Friday, and
Jutland held no fury like the vast mass of
mayor, councillor and sclioolkid that en-
deavored to overwhelm the tiny fellow and
his lady. At St. Ivilda pier he was cheered
by the Scouts, deafened by the schoolkids,
and once more reminded of his greatness by
a proud and purple Mayor. South Mel-
bourne’s Mayor seconded the opinion of St.
Kilda’s greatest potentate in some brief and
telling words at the official frontier of the
suburb, and vegetation was pressed on Lady
Jellicoe until it seemed improbable that she
could keep her nose above the rising jungle.
In the city the welcome was even more en-
thusiastic and personal. The crowd tb it
was collected for the Lucky Bag affair
seemed to be filled with the unanimous deter-
mination to wrench oil: the Admiral’s dis-
engaged fist and keep it as a souvenir. But
Jellicoe stood it all with unfailing aplomb.
He is a rather pale, unimpressive little man
with twinklv blue eyes and far more nose
than the official photograph admits. His
greatest asset is his smile, which even on
official occasions is a blinding impromptu.
Navy Minister Boynton was the only frock-
coated and top-hatted person present at the
first part of the St. Ivilda ceremony. A con-
spicuous absentee was Willie Watt. Jellicoe
had got through a dozen or more introduc-
tions, inspecteu the guard of honor and was
half-way up the long pier, when a pale and
agitated Acting Prime Minister was observed
rushing furiously from the shore end. After
apologies had been made and accepted, the
party moved on to where the ton-hatted coun-
cillors were waiting. St. Ivilda takes a
small size in mayors, and Cr. Sculthorpe, in
his comic-opera dress, looked a very uncom-
fortable little man. After the Town O
had read an address of welcome, the Mayor
spoke a little piece, and Jellicoe replied in
a few crisp sentences.
A large and dignified multitude came to
shake hands with the Jellicoes at Federal
Parliament House on Friday night. It was
the sort of raw evening that promised pneu-
monia to the decolleted swarm of official
females, but the Federal Cabinet had made
no special effort to shake the thermometer
from its winter sleep. After the formal kow-
tow in the draughty Queen’s Hall, the mob
had to rely on Jellicoe’s hand-clasp or a cup
of hot coffee to dispel the frigid feeling in-
side. A tame evening was spent in swallow-
ing the music of a concert party and filling
in the gaps with emaciated sandwiches, cake
and trifle. Some reckless souls who had the
hardihood of Polar explorers faced a movie
exhibition of Australia’s resources in the
icy Chamber of the Reps., but the _ great
majority risked the fate of the sardine in
trying to get closer to Muriel Window,
Harry Dearth and other entertainers in the
small Senate club-room. The Jellicoes and
the Very Importants were provided with a
special supper-trough.
The cream of the political world that en-
countered the Jellicoes on this Friday even-
ing must have felt unusually select on
account of the official efforts to keep un-
authorised outsiders from disfiguring the
function. The House staff was rushed into
its uniform, best dicky and necktie, and
was requested under penalty of being boiled
at daybreak to guard every entrance against
intruders. Also the ushers were sternly
commanded to regard every bottle as sacred,
and the wretched creatures had to stand
about inviting chilblains and hollow coughs
without even the prospect of overtime to
reward them for their sentinel duty.
On Saturday night half the Red Cross
stores had been shifted out of the ball-room
at Federal Government House to make way
for the two-steppers. No jazz dances were
programmed, and only one fox-trot. _ A hun-
dred people took the floor, and Jellicoe and
his lady never missed a whirl. Most of the
Very Best People attended, reinforced by a
few* of the Next Best, including a bunch of
young married women. Of course a lot of
people are wondering why their daughters
were not asked. The moans of the Great
Uninvited will never cease till the music
stops and we all go home.
Ladv Helen hostessed informally in old
rose and gold. The gentlielps started out to
introduce the sailor guests, but made a hash
of the job, judging by the number of girls
and sailors with half-filled or unfilled pro-
grammes.
The dress display was gorgeous enough for
a revue parade. One daring damsel had her
pink skirt slit up at one side to show a blusa
silk leg gartered below the knee with little
oink roses. Somehow there were always
partners for her. The blind soldier-son of
High Commissioner Mackenzie of Aiaoruand
sat on the dais. He came on the New Zea-
land as the guest of Jellicoe, who had been
told that young Mackenzie had always longed
to travel'on a battleship. Despite piteous
protests the oand was ordered to tall out
before midnight; but the guests revelled joy-
ously at supper in the dining-room as the
Sabbath started.
At this show Mrs. Share’s black satin
draperies had a back sash-end of gold tissue,
lined with gold, trailing a yard or two behind
her. Gold tissue bands decorated the back
of the bodice, which had an underbodice and
tiny sleeves of gold lace. Mrs. George Fair-
bairn looked as if she had taken a bright-blue
satin-dan-ask curtain to supply her short-
skirted draperies. She wore the only dia-
mond tiara in the room. One damsel was
attired in a cretonne chair-cover with ribbons
tied to her arms.
Lady Jellicoe is buxom and domesticated.
She has had five children, and is a type that
appeals to the Royal Mary.
, Vera Deaki n,
daughter of the lov-
able Alfred, was
lately pinned to an
0.8. E. for gallant
conduct in the Red
Cross field. In 1915
she went to Eng-
land, subsequently
visiting France and
Egypt, to organise
a bureau for collect-
ing information about
wounded, dead and
missing. Soon cables
and letters began to
snow up the in-
terior of her head-
quarters in London,
and the industrious
girl and her staff
almost followed the clock round sending
news of Diggers to anxious relatives in Aus-
tralia. One valuable service was the regu-
lar cabling of progress reports of damaged
warriors in hospital. Also, Aussies in Lon-
don were helped to code their cables home ;
and in several other ways her little . party
became one of the smartest squads in the
Cheer-Up Brigade.
Hobart’s frock and fluff merchants cleared
out all old stock on the four days preceding
the marriage of Lieut. Jack Fitzßoy, R.N.,
to Governor Newdegate’s daughter Lucia.
Plavmates in the old home, these two would
have been wedded long ago only for the boy
being at war on the Brin, which he helped
to handle at the battle of Jutland. The
’groom arrived in the Speck only 10 days
before the date fixed for the ceremony and
had to spend at least six in quarantine. But
as the quarantine period is often prolonged
by fresh outbreaks, the invitations were not
scattered until Jack was a free man. Then,
the cards being unexpectedly numerous, all
Hobart turned tailor or costumier for four
days. There was no possibility of making
new finery, so dames and misses had to be
content to buy obsolete stuff and modernise
it as far as time permitted. Mushroom
dandies of the male sex cleaned up every-
thing that looked like morning dress or bell-
toppers. Second-hand shops,_ undertakers and
theatres were besieged, while one chimney-
top had its first outing since Governor
Hamilton’s daughter was married 30 years
ago.
S’Eury Jones, who was making his. debut
in a ’topper and “frock,” lost some of his self-
consciousness when he was cheered at the
entrance. But Lieut. Russell Young, R.N.R.,
raised the biggest scream. His hat was
the trouble. Young is admiral of the local
dry-land sailors, and tumbled out of the ad-
jacent Naval and Military Club in full naval
uniform except that, by mischance, he wore
an old civilian felt hat. He marched trium-
phantly up the human lane in all his. pomp
and dignity, ignorant of the fact that it was
he whom the mob was yelling at. His salute
as lie reached the Cathedral entrance was his
awakening. Realism? his unpardonable
offence, he looked first l : ke a rabbit and then
like a crayfish. Hat fit hand, an unorthodox
rightabout was executed, followed by a quick
double to the club, whence he issued almost
immediately with his proper gear. The
crowd roared heartily at the newly-wedded as
they came out of the church, and their motor
led a procession of camouflaged Fords, etc.,
to the breakfast at Government House.
Owing to the conditions governing a be-
quest which all the Newdegates inherit, they
have to retain that name; so the pair will
now be known as Lieut, and Mrs. John
Fitzßoy-N ewdega te. Father’s name, you
remember, was Newdivate to start with ; he
became Newdegate in 1002.
Looking spruce and confident, Victor
Nelson Hood, who has instructed many Gov-
ernors in “correct form,” is back again. At
Melbourne Club he will have an opportunity
of meeting Irvine, C.J., who will become
Acting-Gov. in August. The result may be
that Hood will go back to his old rooms at
Government House for six months.
Mrs. H. H. Share, the late Admiral
Bridges’ elder daughter, is on the New Zea-
land with her Naval Secretary husband as
a kind of lady-in-waiting to Lady Jellicoe.
Mrs. Share found her sister, Mrs. Geoff.
Luttrell, established at Federal Government
House for the Fleet fortnight. Mrs. Geoff.,
now niece-by-marriage to his Ex., will help
Lady Helen through the festive gatherings.
Secretary Share looks just as cheery as when
he drove the Northcotes’ secretarial pen.
That fine old sport Herbert Power has
ridden into the west. If a plebiscite had
been taken of the most popular racing man
in the State the 83-year-old would have
romped in a winner.
The Old Melburnians have elected Brig.-
Gen. Harold Grimwade as their new presi-
dent. Grimwade left Australia in the early
stages of the war, one of a popular trio of
A.I.F. colonels, and he is expected home any
day now.
Lieut. Hugh Anthony, of the timber firm,
got back to his native Melbourne last week
after four years of war. For a long time he
was a prisoner of the Huns, and an attempt
to escape did not add to his comfort. His
father did not live long enough to see his
boy released.
Flight-Captain Roderick Ross, son-in-law
of Mr. and Mi's. Mitchell, of Elwood, has
cabled his wife that he has been requisi-
tioned for service in England. Mrs. Roderick
is now arranging a passage to London.
On Monday evening seven matrons host-
essed a dance in the Gregory Hall, East St.
lvilda. The frivol was for young girls, but
there were a few elder spinsters there. One
or two officers from the Melbourne reinforced
the dancing men. During the fox-trotting
the chaperons played bridge in the gallery.
The supper was a choice affair decorated
with pink and gold.
Prof. Harry Allen’s popular little wife is
convalescing after a severe bronchial attack,
and hopes to see some of the Jellicoe recep-
tion festivities. Her daughters hostessed a
tea frivol last week at the Quamby for the
medical Lemprieres’ daughter Claire, who is
to marry Captain Ainslie early next month.
Edith Allen will be one of a quartette of
bridesmaids. Ella Payne, cousin of the
bride-elect, will be bridesmaid-in-chief.
Lieut. Clyde Fisken, a grandson of the
late David Fisken, is making homeward
from Enaland. Grandpa used to be a prom-
inent figure in Melbourne’s wool-and-sheen-
handling trade. His prosperity didn’t inter-
fere with his innate kindliness, however.
There were occasions when he had to rise
at an ungodly hour for a trip to Newmarket;
and the old boy always refused to have any-
body to wait on him at his 4.30 a.m. break-
fast. He scared up his own vittles and
started cheerfully off to greet the dawn at
the sale.vards. The returning grandson of
this hard-doer joined up as a schoolboy in
1915 and brings back a Military Cross from
France. His dad owns Lai Lai squattage.
Louis Lavater,
here caught by the
Swiss photographer,
is one of our busiest
poets and musicians.
Some of his most
likeable stuff has ap-
peared in the Oxford
Anthology of Aus-
tralasian verse, and
his name will also be
prominent in a new
American Anthology
shortly issuing from
the press. As a
musician he has a
record which many
showier professors
cannot approach. He
has written' piles of
orchestral, vocal, in-
strumental and chamber music and has had
the rare pleasure of hearing the best of it
performed at the classical monthly concerts
of the Musical Society of Victoria. The
quality of his scholarship is shown by the
fact that he was for a long time librarian
and one of the special examiners of the
society, and has also considered the merits
of many ambitious youngsters at various
competitions all over the State. Lavater
has been a big figure in the musical life of
Melbourne for many years, but his neglect
in being horn and educated in Australia has
saved him from being blinded by lime-
light. He is now 52 but looks 40.
Dr. Browne, who followed up his experi-
ences with the A.I.F. by a term of distin-
guished ’flu-service at the Alfred, is retiring
from the city to practise at Cobden, one of
the pleasant places of the Western District.
Adelaide’s confidences: —
Button days are slumping badly; even the vigor-
ous Y.M.C.A. couldn't bring the result of its Fri-
day’s street sales for the Red Triangle Fund up to
anything like last year's figures.
Mrs. Hogben and her two daughters have left for
England to join Lieut.-Colonel Hogben, who has got
cn the staff of Australia House.
The civic powers are again pulling all the strings
to get a Lord Mayor for this village. You don't
know how what Bruce Smith would call this injuri-
ous differentiation hurts us.
Major T. E. Cleland has been admitted to the
local Bar. He is the only son of E. E. Cleland, K.C.,
and returned from the Front with his English wife
about three weeks ago.
Jellicoe and the New Zealand gave us three wild
days. The cheery little Admiral motored from the
Outer Harbor to Government House on Sunday
afternoon, and got a tremendous informal reception
all the way. In the Government House grounds he
was received by a guard of small Boy Scouts, who
stood solemnly to attention in the pouring ran, with
never a mother to hold an umbrella over them. On
Monday there was a civic reception at the Town
Hall, then an informal visit to the Cheer-up Hut, and
lunch at Parliament House. In the evening came
the reception and investiture at Government
House. The investiture, with William Sowden
as star, was a brief business, finished with an appre-
ciative word or two from his Ex. The Jellicoe lady
was in trailing blue, and Mrs. Share in smartly-
blended black and silver. Mrs. H. H. Hutton wore
a picture frock of gold tissue with touches of blue,
and Mrs. Frank Downer the softest grey. The
Jellicoes strolled through the rooms talking to
people, and popular Captain Share must have spent
a confused evening trying to fit names to the faces
of the old acquaintances who claimed him.
On Tuesday there was a lunch for officials only on
board the New Zealand, a reception by the Navy
League at the Grand Central, and the Mayor’s Ball
in the Town Hall in the evening. Then a special train
to the ship, which sailed for Melbourne at 4 o’clock
next morning. The Mayor’s show was mostly an
official and rather elderly affair, with just enough
younger beauty to provide partners for the junior
officers of the New Zealand. Both there and at
Government House there was a scattering of debu-
tantes—among them Mayor Glover’s only daughter
and the Ernest Goods’ attractive twins. On Tues-
day night many of the older generation had their
first sight of the new dances and the modern even-
ing dress. Some of them are still recovering.
Ainslie Caterer, acting head of St. Peter’s College,
has told the Old Boys that a new head will shortly
be appointed. By the school regulations, it has to be
an Anglican clergyman. Caterer, who Ini'-! for many
years been second on the staff, has carried on since
Canon Girdle Stone retired. Under him the number
of boys has risen to 537, and it is advertised that
no more can be taken at present, except in the
preparatory. The War Memorial hall is to be about
160 ft. by 90ft., and to cost £27,000. of which the
school—which is heavily endowed —finds half; the
Old Boys have already subscribed two-thirds of
their required share.
Talking of the artistic circle, the only
daughter of the late John Mather caught an
American boat the other day, with a view
to marrying an American fiance. It will be
her second venture. She was tied for a
while to a German husband, whom she
divorced for good reasons whilst the war was
raging.
Harry Lauder’s persistent canvass on be-
half of his damaged countrymen occasioned
an unexpected howl of censure at a matinee
lately. He was sticking out his “bunnet”
for a wee bit o’ siller when a boiler-plated
baritone advised him to desist. The com-
edian, always perturbed by any. interruption,
tried to silence the enemy with heavy im-
promptus. but these only provoked uproar, in
which the voice of the intruder could be
heard proposing to arbitrate the matter with
the comedian outside. Lauder emerged from
an unpleasant scene with about an eighth of
his usual dignity and a mere fragment of
temper. But it can’t be said that he deserved
much sympathy. A man who wants to hold
up Australia for Scotland’s part in the war
is simply inviting a protest in some form or
other. It has since been published that the
Repatriation Department has requested the
comedian to put away the hat.
Theo Leonard, the new J.C.W. star com-
edian, was in Australia with his parents as
a small boy. His- wife is a Melbourne g rl,
Queenie Cadden. She has a fine soprano
voice, which may be lifted on the conc-erl
platform here. The pair have a small
daughter and a smaller son.
Faulkner Smith is introducing a new
tenor, Edgar Britnell, at the Auditorium next
Thursday.
George Gordon McCrae, who celebrated
birthday No. 86 in Melbourne last week, is
a reminder of the old times when poets looked
for lordly patrons and sinecures under Gov-
ernment, and some of them found their
heart’s desire. G.G.McC. in his early twenties
started to support his poetic instinct with a
civil service billet, and he was Deputy
Registrar-General when he reached retiring
age and took his pension.
Mrs. F. G. Hughes, who has had a long
term as Chief Flag-waver of the A.W.N.L..
is off to Europe for the good of her tattered
nerves, taking daughter Eileen as A.D.C.


Born 1820 —still going strong
m
mmaoteti
V
t
¥>
i
Li
VA
l
I
f .
-Si
1
PVs*
s
H
I!
tJC
4
£\
0
2
L
Y
&.
YZ.
U
V
u
<ft
\
ft
u
u
L
<1
s
a
/
:/
/
n
y
n:
Visitor (critically examining an antique bureau): “There is no denying the charm of old. things when
THEY ARE GENUINE SOME ONE SHOULD INVENT ‘ NON-REFILLABLE ’ ANTIQUE FURNITURE.”
Host (seeing the point): “Ah! that reminds me— bring me a non-refillablk bottle of ‘Johnnie
Walker’ Red Label.”
To be absolutely assured “Johnnie Walker” quality— always say, “Johnnie
Walker Red Label" in the non-refillable bottle—every drop over 10 years old.
GUARANTEED same quality throughout the world.
JOHN WALKER & SONS, Ltd., Scotch Whisky Distillers, KILMARNOCK.


Under
Royal
Warrant
To H.M.
George V
CHAMPAGNE
champagne
'iarifisHeidsietK
Heims
%/W"***
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Hotel de Luxe .
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
The Healthiest and most Beautiful Spot on
the Harbor. As warm in Winter as the South
Of France.
Recommended by the Minister for Health and
the Medical Faculty. Finest Cuisine. Hot
and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Beautiful Beaches,
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths,
Fishing.
Tariff, from 12/6 per day, or
£3/10/- per vreek.
Tels.: Y3OOl, 3002.
Apply Manager.
THE
BRAND of QUALITY.
S tp);
AN
PRESERVING
TRADE MARK
REGISTERED
NET
ow
open
POLISH
FOR
LINOS, WOOD FLOORS, etc.
There is ONLY ONE “ NUGGET.”
Refuse Just as Good.
Gloves and Goddesses
TX/HEN that great lady, the Chinese Empress Lui-
vv Tau, invented Silk Weaving, her grateful sub-
jects canonised her memory and have ever since
worshipped her as their Patron Saint.
Rare were her gifts, yet it is doubtful if she ever
felt the soft caress of the
GLOVE OF SILK
Her modern sister, promenading Pitt Street’s famous
block, is reminded of her needs when she stops to
scan the window shows of The Glove of Silk.
Being a lady of taste and judgment she asks to be
shown
Vanity Fair Silk Gloves
since, while she knows no better Gloves are made,
she also has- the confidence resulting from the Makers
Guarantee, which is placed in every pair, and reads
thus: —
“If these Gloves wear through at the
finger-tips any time before they are washed
and before the rest of the Glove has had
reasonable wear, we will, upon receipt of
this ticket and your Gloves, replace them
with a New Pair.”
The Sydney Agent for the mill will redeem this
Guarantee to every merchant selling VANITY FAIK
GLOVES.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The vice-regal Davidsons, the lady in blue
satin with a fish train to it; Mr. and Mrs.
Elliot, of the Gilbert Islands, she wrapped
in sapphire velvet; Mrs. Holman in black,
with Premier William without his straw hat
—these added their ripple to the seas of
applause that followed Verbrugglien’s first
Sydney appearance as solo violinist. Beet-
hoven’s Concerto in D was the big work
of the extra Conservatorium concert, and
musical Sydney is breathless with excite-
ment over the little master’s handling of his
fiddle. It was another of the surprises Ver-
brugghen keeps in his musical box. Com-
poser Alfred Hill used the baton. The Con-
servatorium rocked with applause, and only
fear kept the musical rat that sometimes
attends the lecture-concerts from adding his
personal approval to the tumult.
Admiral Jellicoe will arrive a day later
than that marked on the official programme,
so we’ll have the dual celebration of his
arrival and the Prince of Wales’s birthday
on June 23. The famous seaman is thor-
oughly domesticated. He much prefers
nursing the baby to attending the most bril-
liant frivol.
Has Dr. Arthur got a press-agent, or does
he think all these things up himself? His latest
idea, which he wasn’t successful in getting
the local aldermen to support, w r as that the
Commonwealth Government should purchase
the big red-brick Bakewell mansion at Clif-
ton Gardens as a Sydney home for the G.-G.
The strenuous old pottery-maker, who had
his irons in many fires and was somehow
able to keep them all from burning, was once
appealed to by a sycophant for his family
tree. “Tell him.” said the disgusted old
man, “that I’m Bill Bakewell, bricklayer.”
Perhaps he started life that way; and in
his sick old age, when he could get into the
city only with difficulty, lie wanted some-
thing to occupy his mind and bis time. So
he made a hobby of supervising the building
of this Clifton Gardens place, and in doing
it more or less lived his youth again. When
it was finished with elaborate care, Mr.
Bakewell lay- down and died ; and his widow
—all her children married —moved out to
something less vast.
Premier Holman is fast arriving at the
point when we will no longer be able to
speak of him as the adroit young man in
politics. Youthful impetuosity can no
more be urged as excuse for sins of com-
mission and omission. With daughter Portia
grown up enough to be sub-hostessing danc-
ing-parties, the boater really will have to
be replaced by a decorous felt or silk tile.
However, the party on Saturday was a suc-
cess, and the Women Painters’ Club, where
the lads and lasses foregathered, added the
tone of culture for which the Holman family
is noted.
Captain and Mrs. Pilcher (she was one of
the clever Mack family) are in Sydney,
where the captain’s boat, the St. Albans,
deposited quite a cargo of notables. Mrs.
Pilcher is wild with enthusiasm over life in
the Indian hill stations. The Nilgiris with
their eternal snows, the Sinai desert, the
trains where each passenger has his own
bath, the ice-box that you travel with and
replenish at each station —she loved it all! At
some place, six thousand feet above the sea,
where the English women retain the Cold-
country bloom in their cheeks, she met the
champion mean man of the world, who took
her through his magnificent tea-plantation,
and, after promising her some of a famous
growth, renegged because there were no half-
pound packets made up. She met Rajahs
by the bushel, and had a chance meeting
with him of Paroda, who is handed down to
posterity as having turned his back on the
King at the Durbar. Only two Australian
women did Mrs. Pilcher meet once she left
the seaports. One was Enid Purves, whose
mother was considered to have tbe most
graceful figure in Sydney • and Mrs. McKay,
sister to Mrs. Geoffrey Fairfax, whose hus-
band is a nephew to Samuel McCaughey.
There are now six little McKays for him to
leave some of his wealth to.
Captain Pilcher was busy transporting
men and supplies along the Eastern Front,
and he had so many experiences that he’s
afraid to start talking of them. But he is
proud of one souvenir, and that’s a per-
fectly gorgeous dagger, the handle thickly
embossed with gold Arabic figures. The
Captain paid the Arabian prince who was
wearing it a compliment on the workman-
ship, and behold! next day the dagger was
ceremoniously sent to the vessel with a mes-
sage begging the blue-eyed seaman’s accept-
ance.
The Peace Ball would be more appro-
priate if there were peace, or anything like
it. Count Bantzau has announced his in-
tention not to sign the Treaty of Versailles.
If he doesn’t the British armies will at
once prepare to march on Berlin ; if he does,
good judges forecast a revolution in Ger-
many, which will take oceans of blood to
queli. Mr. Churchill thinks that the Soviet
armies in Bussia may be destroyed “in two
months.” But he has been an optimist all
through the war. There is a big British
force in Odessa and another one is going to
Danzig; stern fighting is expected in Serbia
(which now has a powerful liepublican
party) and in Bulgaria; and Italy remains
dissatisfied about Fiurne. In defiance of
the cold water thrown on them by A.I.F.
Headquarters, Aussies are enlisting for the
new Bussian war. And the British war
estimates for the year are as big as ever they
were. A level-headed ancient remarked
that it was “not good to rejoice when the
world is in tears.” It applies with some
force to Peace Balls and similar festivities.
Herbert Power, who died in Melbourne
last week, was well known and liked in
Sydney, lie and his wife were constant
racing visitors here up till a few years ago.
Even better known is their son Beggie, who
worked at Dalgety’s and spent most of his
time in the Union Club before he married
and settled down. His wife is Bupert
Clarke’s elder daughter.
War Chest worker Lorna Graham married
her Cyril Miller, from the Malay States, at
St. Andrew’s Cathedral last week, with the
support of mother and father, and an ex-
tremely well-dressed collection of wedding-
guests, whose numbers topped the century.
The bride’s dress was a thistledown affair
of georgette weighted down by hand-embroid-
ery and a pink-lined train. She wore a sprig o’
white heather for luck, given to her by Judge
Fitzhardinge, and carried an armful of white
orchids and maiden-hair. Four bridesmaids,
all honey-colored georgette, blue sashes and
delphiniums, added to the decorations. The
Australia spread its red carpet for the party,
and maple leaves were the dominant note in
the decorations.
One of the bridesmaids at this Graham-
Miller wedding was Miss Winsome Huggins.
If there’s anything in a name, she oughtn’t
to wait long before playing chief role in a
similar affair.
Dorothy Ilelmrich
raised her rich mezzo-
soprano at the Con-
servatorium last
week just before
sailing by the Khy-
ber for England. It
was the first “pub-
lic” appearance the
young singer had
made. Until last
week her audience
had been soldiers—
soldiers well and sol-
diers wounded. She
has never stinted
them of any pleasure
her voice might give.
Some of the boys re-
member a girl who,
on last Christmas
Eve, stole away from tbe tree and the
visitors and the brightly-lighted rooms at
Baudwick, and found her way into a ward
where a few very sick men lay. There,
without accompaniment, and with great
simplicity, she stood and sang very -softly
for them the songs they most loved. Miss
Ilelmrich goes to join Lady Cooper in Eng-
land. The voice will then be entrusted to
one of the great teachers, though singing-
master Mavrogordato has left very little
for that other to do. The only thing lack-
ing in the voice is the quality that comes
from that elusive thing we call “atmosphere.”
Her last week’s concert programme was
chosen with artistic perception, and her
treatment of Schubert’s “Margaret at the
Spinning Wheel” and “Laughing and Weep-
ing” was particularly happy.
Sister Stella Black, who left in 1916 to
nurse our boys, but found herself drafted to
a hospital at Peshawar, on the Afghanistan
frontier, is now Mrs. Frederick Sargisson,
the transformation having taken place at
London in March. Husband is a captain
of the Indian Cavalry, and the home of the
newly-weds will be in Ind'a.
The wedding happened in England of Os-
sian Boy Cormack, of Bradley’s Head (he
is an officer in the A.1.F.), to Dorothy
Glendower Croft, eldest daughter of the late
baronet Alfred Croft, of Lugwardine, in
Hampshire. Satin and pearls and a veil of
lace secured by a veil of myrtle, were in-
cluded in the stately bride’s outfit, and Bruce
Arthur, a brother lieutenant, and son of
the little doctor, supported the ’groom.
The first wedding among the girls of the
Anzac Buffet V.A.D. happened at St. James’s
the other day, when Winifred Morse, of Arn-
cliffe (sister of Major Morse, D. 5.0.), and
ex-soldier B. S. Marsh, of Stanmore, took
one another for better or for worse. To
mark the occasion the Buffet girls got up
early and prepared a wedding feast, even to
the cake, and in their white uniforms made
a guard of honor at the church. The bride
was also in white, but her array ran to
georgette and tulle and other fairy fabrics.
Last week Commissioner Lamb was the
speaker at the Bed Cross meeting at which
the Cullen dame presided. The Bed Crossers
glowed at the eulogy of their work, and tneir
determination to carry on till the last man
embarks for home grew stronger as they
listened. Major Lamb spoke particularly of
the lion’s work done by the Wounded and
Missing Soldiers’ bureau in London, under
the care of Vera Deakin, who, by the way,
now sports, in addition to an 0.8. E., a dia-
mond rising sun, the Bed Cross in the middle
set with rubies. This was given to her by
her fellow-workers to keep company with
the engagement-ring placed on her finger by
her flying-man (Capt. White, A.F.C.), who
not long since sighted freedom and the girl
of his heart after being a prisoner of war in
Turkey. He is the flying-man, by the way,
who, wanting to keep up his communication
with Tiie Bulletin, and knowing that no
letter to a newspaper would be passed by
tbe Turko-German censor, sent lvis messages
addressed to “Mr. Ed. Dighter, 214 George-
street, Sydney.” Still, they were “sports” in
one way. He was limited to six lines at a
time; but they merely chuckled when,
observing a loop-hole in the instructions,
their prisoner wrote on paper two feet wide.
Verse-writer Ella MacFadyen, of the
heavy masses of brown hair, is shortly to be
taken captive by fiance Gilmour, who is com-
ing back to Australia after being with the
Field Ambulance since 1914. During that
time Ella has been doing her bit towards
making the Bed Cross Becord a success.
Major Jack Massie is coming home via
America with his pretty wife. The
shoulder-wound which the youthful Sydney
giant incurred on Gallipoli has not incapaci-
tated him, as a cricketer, after all, and he
is otherwise well. He is going on with
his interrupted effort to be a mining
engineer.
The Kindergarten Union decided at its last
meeting to reap its share of the golden crop
that is springing from ballroom floors this
winter; so enter another ball on your en-
gagement tablet. Paddington Town Hall is
the chosen spot; and that used to be Syd-
ney’s favorite dancing-floor when the Kit-
chen Lancers were looked upon as a wild
excess of youthful energy.
Mrs. Alfred Milson is a photographer of
considerable quality. She has an up-to-
date studio at her home in North Sydney
in which she spends all her spare time, anil
she’s going to give an exhibition of her
work shortly.
Mrs. Eric Hyman (her husband is a
major with a D.S 0., and military Governor
of Jerusalem) arrived back from the Prom-
ised Land recently, bringing a Ilyman junior
along as well. She is camping in the tents
of her parents at Mosman.
Bose Seaton, director of diction at the
Conservatorium, is so fascinated with things
in the islands of Nippon that she has sent
along word she wants her old job no more.
The dramatic art of the Japanese has caught
her attention. She is herself a writer and
producer of plays, and wants to add to her
knowledge.
“Vandorian” sends a line from ’Frisco: —
In San Francisco, at the end of April, quite a
number of Australians glimpsed each other. Miss
James, a Melbourne woman, a sister of writer Wini-
fred James, and a Victorian friend, Mrs. Kate Camp-
bell, were off to the Yosemite Valley. Another
Victorian, L. G. G. Connelly, a district magistrate
in the Papuan-Samarai circuit, was going east to
New Jersey to collect his wife and infant. Miss
Cleland, a Sydney girl, was here with her mother
and a trousseau —just arrived from N. S. Wales.
Mother will give her daughter in marriage to an
American man shortly. Boyd Irwin, actor, hero
of many quoit competitions on the Sonoma, is an
Australian “looking round’’ in this part of Pro-
fessor Wilson’s country. R. E. Knipe, of Mel-
bourne, and a young daughter are touring these
star-spangled regions. The late Mrs. Knipe, by
the way, was a daughter of the late James Service,
of Victoria. George Meudell and his wife (who
take a trip to U.S.A. almost as frequently as some
Sydney citizens go to Manly) are in California.
The-F. A. Jonsons (the lady is a niece of the late
W. B. Dailey) hurried through ’Frisco on their way
from Australia to London. On the theatre side,
Annette liellerman is billed to sing, dive, dance
and balance on a tight-rope in the ’Frisco Orpheum.
She is going to do part of the “stunt,” as we say
here, in a fanciful helmet head-dress and a short
kirtle of beaded Indian grass-fringe. John McCor-
mack warbles here this month (May) at prices that
range up to 10s. a seat.
The girl who dances and the girl who
wants to dance dropped into St. James’s
Hall to see the De Ivurylo couple fox-trot
and tickle-toe and slow-waltz in the very
latest manner. Jazz? No! The thing ue
call jazz is not; the real thing isn’t danced
by the Very Best even in America.
Mrs. G. E. Hall left for Europe on Satur-
day to rejoin her husband, who is a military
educational officer in France. Mrs. Hall
used to be Joan Newton, the first sec. of the
Ladies’ Home Mission Union founded in e.iu-
ney by that energetic cliurchwoman, Mrs.
Wright, wife of the Primate.
When nobody else will brace herself for
the thankless task of lion, sec., ask Mrs.
Cecil Hordern. Not content with doing the
whole of the secretarial work of Gray-
thwaite Home for Incapacitated Soldiers, she
has now taken on the lion, secretaryship of
the Y.M.C.A. effort for soldiers during de-
mobilisation. Bussell Sinclair is treasurer.
This is a picture
of the much-decora-
ted Oolonel Oswald
(“Toby”) Watt, the
Anglo - Franco - Aus-
tralian flying man.
He had been flying
for over a year be-
fore war broke out,
and when it did
break out, happen-
ing to be in France,
he joined the French
Arm y. Bu t his
heart was always
with the A.1.F., and
he eventually man-
aged to transfer.
He is lift., weighs
about 14 stone in
condition—his nor-
mal state —and is over 40. Not many men
of his age have done so well as front-line
fighters.
The National Council of Women hold its
pow-wow at the B.M.A. Chambers last week,
the Anderson dame occupying the Presi-
dent’s chair for the first time. The laws
respecting women and children in this State
were minutely inspected; and Miss Itose
Scott, while cheerful over what the women’s
vote had done, pointed to heights still to be
scaled.
Cartkona, where Mrs. A. E. Hughes is
starting a series of musical Sunday after-
noons, was built by Willie Mitchell, in the
days when Darling Point was one of the
places. The musical Sunday idea was first
conceived by Bertie Kelly and his sister
Maisie when they lived together at Glen-
yarrah, now Gladwood, the residence of the
Bruntons. But with the Kellys there was
no possibility of the entertainment develop-
ing into a dance, rag or jazz. It was severely
classical. While Sir. Kelly and three fellow-
enthusiasts played Bach fugues on the
usual stringed instruments, society sat
around and strove hard and, for the mosl
part, ineffectually to look appreciative. Or.
again, it struggled to appear understanding
while the brilliant Maisie Kelly sang incom-
prehensibly in French and Italian. The surf-
ing habit and tbe march of the motor killed
the popularity of the musical afternoon,
but the recrudescence of dancing should re-
vive it.
Major “Ted” Anderson relinquished his
job of A.P.M. last week. No man made
more strenuous efforts to get to France, but
his health is poor. In the early stages of the
war lie was The Bulletin’s censor, and.
though the period was difficult for all par-
ties. he proved one of the best the
paper ever encountered. A sister. Mrs.
Leonard Dangar, has been doing war-work
in London, and several brothers are on
service.
The Levys have had bad luck lately. Mrs.
Harry became very ill shortly after the death
of her husband, and is only just about again.
The Sep Levys are in mourning, Mrs. Sep’s
father having died recently, after a long ill-
ness, in Melbourne.
The Domain lately offered some sharp con-
trasts in its orators. Little and slight Adela
Pankhurst painted in strong colors the pri-
vations of the seamen’s life. Next to her
the faultlessly turned-out W. J. Miles took
the platform for the Social Democratic
League; while next to him a young Aus-
tralian priest, Father J. Cusack, one of the
Manlv College’s most brilliant students,
addressed the crowds on theological subjects.
Well, even the wedding guests were only
gathered together after the order, “Go ye
into the highways.”
The returned soldiers of St. James’s parish
missed at least one item that was meant to
go in the programme. It was the dance
arranged and practised with great fervor
by a girl who lives up our most exclusive
river. On the day of the party she received
a wire telling her that the churchwardens
and the beadle and so forth couldn’t abide
the frivolity' of dancing, so the graceful
dance for the rehearsal of which she had
given up two afternoons was cast into the
outer darkness.


iT*
"V7r*
»*»*
NW
',r-K
Af; ■
Ss
ft
'M
v.*«3»
l :•£ ■•V'* ; ( '.'
*\<£«
-1 :' ;vv
;•*..• 7<?
l>.«
1 1//
$5«
( Vi
""*••’
V^vV-
\y.- ti-. '- v; .•:•*
. : ', ,\".s -■
iii«
*£#&!
. >•• fi s' ».'4f
oVUs fe i,-*,.
• •*•-.■*,-< va-iv ’•: ■>
teas#*
Sfc*
X
v-' y r* sv*.
«££?&<>Tfewv'f • -<• v«::. ■ A 5 ' V,* i
£ : V,
..A. ~.i
i;.S Sv:
&
* \
r * v^j>«yw
4<£<fl
s V*.
-w
btisspora*
•CSSPf
vA^ 4 4^|
Ml
SN : C'SS
i®l|M
P®lf
ipi
§®Bfl
$§M
bml
St*
,tV^;V5'
«.? ■< >< ;► i {/■>*s •> •*-£*.'. yy*
' ■&s&
'•:• ■? • : * >v v • *„ •\ -i ' % .'!•>•“•.
: v > V, •.'o v • *- w v;?*
'V
"■■' 'M.
lv’4'v /v v "2-
<r . !
. V-
f >
f //:T : f< •
vt*.; .* \ >
'■' > :y<j~/ '- s < "'■■•. /', '♦
\
i Mk&m
■'/■;<>
,'w.v ?£/! <
• >.' ¥ : # Xs :v v t' y y 4
.' % i
iPMI
ss^j
j
J'^V
r^v
r
S» r .V ’• •*.'
V A.V/ . V
rfy+
emYt
* .<•> i / ** v .v/*V
✓ v*
.> r-^>*
•/ -;-Vw
\ -
/ V /!
r * V^^'*
’M£MSS&&
K ■-
■■■•<..
A
K*r*
1
v VJ
six
*R
Y 'Z *“&.
■X.y.f
mmfm
/Tv
SR
PW» 4
•»/<>
.w
AwImA • 4 V-.Ufe^t/
The Car of Quality.
Out o’Doors
Ride the road of the great Outdoors!
Be healthier, happier—drive an Overland.
A model of your very heart’s desire is included in the complete range of
Overland motor cars. There is a car that will make you proud yet will meet
your purse.
For you cannot find greater value. The huge production of Overlands
makes possible vast economies, and unusual benefits to you.
Look at an Overland a glance will convince you of its
excess value. Ask for the “85 Four” model, for example (see
illustration). There is nothing in the world like it for all-’round
utility. Big four-inch tyres, great reserve engine power, fine
appearance; simple control, comfortable, long lasting. And it is
completely equipped ready for the road.
A demonstration and catalogues are obtainable from
Australian
Distributors
GARRATTS LTD., Sydney
[KELLOW-FALKINER PTY. LTD,, Melbourne
AUTO-CARS LTD , Adelaide
EAGER & SON, Brisbane
ANDERSON & ADAMS LTD., Perth
H. G. HEATHORNE & CO. LTD., Hobart.
,A. HATRICK & CO., Wanganui, N.Z.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION
Christchurch, N.Z.
WXLLYS-OVERLAND, Inc,
Toledo, Ohio, U. S. A.
1779
Delivery.


Li 1
'm
The word
6 P©laco 9
on your Collar means MORE
than ordinary satisfaction.
It stands for quality that is
proverbial ; durability that is
not matched; value that
is paramount.
Pelaco Collars, Shirts and
Pyj' mas are MADE IN
AUSTRALIA, and sold by
reliable Mercers everywhere.
COLLARS
55* \
0
THERE’S MONEY IN THE PEN.'
t in'
a
The above
is the title
of our book-
let, which
tells about
the possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
by HARRY J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
difference between
learning to CORY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains, in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
penny stamps
to-day for a
copy of this
booklet—
“THEßE’S
HONEY
rN
THE
PEN.”
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing
123 Waltham Buildings, 24- Bond St., SYDNEY.
ESTERBROOK’S
PENS.
FEW of us are entirely satisfied with the daily
pen we use. Write ESTERBROOK, Box
1)8 G.P.0., Sydney, who will send you samples
for selection. Costs nothing’.
MADE FROM LEMONS ONLY
(} BROOKE’S,,
r &mop>
Best Lemon Squask
BULLDOO
GRIP
HE SELF VULCANIZING
PATCH
ANY SIZE PJNCTUREJ
3LOWOUT OR TORN PLACE
OBTAINABLE AT ALL GARAGES
PRODUCED ENT RELY
IN AUSTRALIA.
"A • -
POL
WE MAKE THE '
FINEST POLO
STICKS IN THE
COMMONWEALTH.
THE “WALTHER” Tapered Polo Stick
is a Match Stick Equal to Any Imported Stick.
We stock also Salter, Buchanan and Eclectic Sticks.
Write for Our Fine Catalogue of Polo Saddles and Gear. Polo Sticks, P>nlls, etc.
Walther 8 Stevenson Ltd., 393 George Street, Sydney.
BQSTOCK’S—THE ECONOMY SHOE POLISH
We wish to stress the fact that ECONOMY is one of the chief attributes of
Bostock Shoe Dressings. It is economical by virtue of the fact that it is more
than a mere polish.
Containing, as it does, ingredients which nourish and preserve the leather, it gives
longer life to footwear.
With the cost of shoes mounting
higher and higher, the daily use
of Rostock’s, with its leather-
preserving qualities, is particu-
larly desirable.
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
Colors: Black, Brown, Dark
Brown, Ox Blood and White.
In Tins, Bottles and Tubes.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Bostock’s Violo Polishes, Ltd.
. . SYDNEY. . .
<&W
<f
kV*
A SAFEGUARD for All Linen.
Any Garment or Article is pro-
tected and individualised WHEN
MARKED WITH
CASHS <g> NAMES
Eclipses Marking-ink for Con-
venience and Satisfaction. Any
Name woven into a fine Cambric
Tape in Fast Color. Easily sewn
on. Insist on having CASH’S
THE BEST.
12 doz. 4/6, 6 doz. 3/3, 3 doz. 2/3.
Sold by all Best Drapers.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY
J. & J. Cash Pty. Ltd.
85 Cubitt Street, Richmond, VIC.
Write for Style Book.
CAPILLARINE
•sr
for
Quick
Results.
A splendid growth of Hair can lie produced
on the upper lip by the aid of CAPIL-
LARINE. Make up your mind to grow the
Moustache, and start using CAPILLARINI3
right away. A preparation of unfailing
merit.
PRICE 10/6 JAR —POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
- \
Va
&
Ms
&
sil
ORLICKS
MALTED
MILK
Baby knows the difference.
He knows what makes him feel good,
happy, and contented.
You know that he thrives upon this
easily assimilated, nourishing food,
therefo e insist on always having
Horlick’s Malted Milk for him.
Write for sample, sending 2d. in
Stamps to HUTCHINSON & Co., Ltl.
26, Jamieson Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Shortage of Supplies. Ample Stocks throughout Australia.
uiiiiiHlliniMlinMlllllßUllillk
ilia a
Cost less than 10%
A good saddle in fact even a Brooks,
the best, costs less than I o% of the price
of your bicycle. Yet without such a
fitment you forfeit 90% of the pleasure
your machine is capable of giving you.
Think it over and insist —always
° a BROOKS
Ask ygur Agent.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character') will be
taken o / communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. bo
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submittedj and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Surveyor: Guess he knew what lie was
writing about. He has had his master s ticket
for 20 years. .. .Australian Sailor: All your points
have been dealt with at considerable length in
recent Bulletins. .. .E.8.H.L.: Prose and verse both
below standard.... D.McC.: Not up....G.L.
(Plymouth): Nowhere near. .. .F. 5.8.: The “Soul
Traders” don't thrill... .The Ghost: Nothing fresh
or pleasing in it. .. .Gumleaf: Not enough in it to
make a sketch.... Raphus: It’s the old idea in poor
verse and Yankee dialect F.X.0.M.: Verse like
that might cause a revolution L.M.R.: Nice
vesse, but far too slight Bushy: Too wild and
crude Webfoot: None of them quite do it....
A. : No use.. .F.8.W.: Worth better handling...
B. : Nice idea, but the workmanship is not good
enough Moana : Not through. Try again One
of the Lepers: Verse not up. What’s the difference
between a man and an officer when it comes to treat-
ing disease? A.M.G.: Moves very stiffly....
C. : An old thing in an old way O.B.: The
“Coming of Australia” does it: —
There’s one or two things to mention,
It comes from the north and south;
So just beware and at attention,
It’s in everybody’s mouth.
It’s hard to know where we stand,
It comes from the east and west;
Or to form an idea where we’ll land,
And to know what to do for the best.
It’s blowing from all quarters,
Like the howling and gushing of wind ;
That we’re getting tired of mixing stone and
mortar,
And getting more and more behind.
They will never cease or be satisfied,
Until all hearts are broke and wrung;
To think they will always slide,
But only to fall to the last rung.
There will be a clash like of wind and thunder,
Nor will they stop to think or wonder ;
Only to tear everything asunder,
Not until then will they have a hunger.
. ...Bettie C.: Metre all out. .. .J.L.W.: Machine-
made yarn.... Sylvia D,: Not up... .T.A.W.L.:
Hopeless. .T.H.Y.: Verse no g00d.... A.W.H.: “The
Winter Maiden” can't sing... .Marieda B.: Good
verse, but lacking interest. One might do. .. .
C.J.W.: “Overdue” misses... .V.K.T.: One held for
consideration. The other shows that you read with-
out much understanding. But then you’re 17, and
that’s everything to the g00d.... Bertram C.: Yarn
amounts to nothing and is poorly t01d... .W( sterner :
Returned. .. .5.11. W.: Have a look at a verse of it
and weep into the coal-scuttle: —
Thy silver note, good gentle Prnop!
Is as a clarion call,
To each to so improve his Stale
As to improve us all!
To so reform the world indeed
Through influence of mind,
As to make all contented with
The lot they chance to find.
. . . .Bellerive: Nice domestic idyll:— :
As a swagman, woodchopper and bushee,
I’d faced the brunt of rough strife,
When a faithful and loving young woman
Like an angel came into my life.
Poor and unvalued I’d wandered,
From scenes of bright pleasures and mirth,
Far from home and its comforts,
And winter’s glow of the fire on the hearth.
Against stress I did battle and struggle,
Like a sheep in the whirl of a flood,
When I was clasped by the hand of affection
By a daughter of Italian blood.
When upon me did rest a dark shadow.
Which drooped like the plumes of a hearse,
B.v slander I was branded a rotter,
Not fit for a writer of verse.
Six years we’ve lived happily together,
Unchanged since the day we wed.
The pen in spare time is my hobbv,
While hers is the needle and thread.
* Rantzau: “Spa” and “jar” do not rhYme,
except in the dialect of Whitechapel.... W.J.C.:
Nothing in the yarn Osric: A calendar of
horrors doesn’t make a yarn.... Myola: Verses hope-
less J.R. (New Farm): Doesn’t move u 5....
Private A.: That sort of thing makes us angry....
M.8.P.: “Autumn” cannot he placed... .Little Blue
Mist: What happened to the other rhymes? Were
you too tired to find them?.. . . A.McK.E.: It must
be “you” or “thou.” You can’t have it both ways
in that maddening fashion.... F.D.Y.: The trouble
is that it hasn’t an idea to plan into shape....
Atlantic Flight: Obvious things in well-worn
phrases. .. .Street Singer: Nice moral verse, suit-
able for a Sunday-school paper. .. .A.8.C.: “Young
Hope” won't sing. . . .5.0.5.: Study the method of
some good verse before trying again.... F.D. (Can-
terbury): Look at a sample:—
Will a sweetheart there be waiting, her loving
face aglow;
With smiling eyes—bright with tears that down her
face will plough ?
Will there bo signs of four long years of a heart’s
torn aching’s ;
Or will there be signs of a once sweet love with
time’s slow fadings?
How many a mother and sweetheart will be wait-
ing—and waiting in vain
For one who has died —lays somewhere in France
’neath sunshine and rain;
Hiding her pain—she smiles! Loving heart as others
she 'sees;
Clasping their mothers and lovers on Home’s wel-
coming piers.
....In Memory: Verse wallows like a right-angled
whale.... Penny: Well enough observed ; but not for
us... .Rimeur: Verse far too stiff and clumsy....
0.A.5.: Haven’t been able to trace it.... Love of
the Winds: Misses.... Agy :. It isn’t up ;. bt.it we’ve
read a lot worse.... Spectrum: Terrible... .H.C.J.:
Doesn't move us to cheerfulness.... Mentora:
Everything received is read carefully and, if possible,
saved. Here’s you best recipe: (1) Have something
to say; (2) be brief; (3) add humor if possible.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
R..T.: The young people are wooden. So is the gag.
. ...P.A.P.: First attempts are always foiled....
Annie G.: If you are young, study.... V.A.C.: Good
try; but you can’t expect to score so early....
G.E.I. : Search the directory for the address of
Perspective. He’ll help you along... .Will P.: No
sale; but your goods are promising. ...S.A.: All
crude. Study hard and draw larger.... S.H.: Re-
move your waxworks... .J.M.: It staggers 0ut....
Geo. II.: The couple are saying nothing. Strive
for some expression... .A.8.C.: You’ve got a lot
}f study before you. .. .B.B.: We prefer to break
new ground... .C.E.A.: What a pity the shopwalker
is blind !.... Y.A.J.: Well, they at least indicate
that you are interested in drawing. .. .A.K.: Why
is Fame blowing chaff through the trumpet?....
G.A.: All your blokes moved 0n... .L.S.W.: Some
quality in your line; but can’t use any.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE.
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. (Jubines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding _ sailing
.tates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.—City 4246, 2,4, 6 Spring Street,
48io! Sydney.
Sydney to England
via
the Allied Route,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yoseniite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, JULY 9,
VENTURA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Telephone: City 2282. 44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Hanking, Public Companies, &c.
THU
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
ht (Chairman); WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ; Hon. Sir ROBERT PIIILP,
K.C.M.G. ; Hon. A. J. TIIYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Hear] Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St,, E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
IRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANIL
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 247,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 189 S specially protected.
Directors—Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq. ; W. 11. Hart, Esq.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE ... BRISBANE.
Brandies—L,ni(lon, .Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000 000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £145,000
V tree tors: MAR K SHELDON, Esq., Chairman;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LLD. ; FRANK N
YARWOOD, Esq.; HERBERT R. LYSAGIIt!
Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon F
JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.
General Manager-. C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager-. E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Chief Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedie Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 139 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750 000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-«P 1,000.000
Uncalled Capital .. .. .. 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,345,702
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
MACDONALD,
HAMILTON S CO.
Managing Agents for
Australasian'United Steam Navigation C“i d .
Central Queensland Meat Export Co. Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates Ltd.
Blackheath Collieries Limited.
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Shipping:, etc.
Canadian- Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, 6th JUNE.
R.M.S. MAKURA, EARLY JULY.
Tlie most beautiful Scenery in the World—the Canadian Rockies—is on the All-Red Route.
Tlie Prairies, the Great Lakes, Chicago, Niagara Palls and New York can all be visited.
Through bookings to all Canadian, United States and European points.
Stop-overs on the Railways Arranged.
CALL OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS OF THIS ROUTE.
PASSENGERS CAN CHANGE AT HONOLULU INTO A DIRECT STEAMER FOR
SAN FRANCISCO.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Sirooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Palls, etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
?Vs\
m
IV:
ISLAND TOURS.
Now is the Time to Visit the PACIFIC ISLANDS.
DELIGHTFUL TOURS to
NORFOLK ISLAND and NEW HEBRIDES.
SOLOMON ISLANDS.
PAPUA and RABAUL.
Trips of Four, Five and Seven Weeks’ Duration.
BURNS, PHILP 8 CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up capital
Reserve land -
Reserve Liability
Directors:
£3,904,860
£3,025,000
£3,904,860
£10,834,720
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
F. B. S. Falkiner, Esq., M.H.R.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Auditors : S. E. Laidley, Esq. ; A. G. Milson, Esq. General Manager : Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
336 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Commonwealth
HEAD OFFICE
Janfcßiistralia
SYDNEY. B
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking: Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain),
also London (2), and A.I.F. Camps in England.
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and SAVINGS BANK AGENCIES at 2776 Post Offices
throughout Australia, Papua, New Britain, Solomon Islands,
and The Pacific.
JAMES KELL, DENISON MILLER,
Deputy Governor 1919 Governor
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1831.
Capital paid up
Reserve l-'und
Reserve Capital
- £2,000,000
- £2,080,000
- £2,000,000
£6,080,000
7*
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses, M.L.C.
J. W. Macarthur Onslow.
Esq. M.L.A.
O. E. Friend, Esq.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Branch: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C.
London Bankers —The Bank of England; The London County and Westminster and
Parr's Bank. Limited; Barclays Bank, L imited.
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Shipping.
Sydney Inter-State
Sub-Committee.
Intending passengers for other States
are requested to inquire at Quarantine
Department, Customs House, Sydney,
regarding necessary permits required
before sailing.
Permission to break journey at inter-
mediate Ports is suspended
Interstate Passenger
Sailings
(Circumstances Permitting).
FOR ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE.
FOR BRISBANE. MACKAY, TOWNSVILLE
AND CAIRNS.
FOR HOBART.
Huddart Parker Llm
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND. —Regular sail-
ings between Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand
ports and vice versa; particulars to be obtained on
application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA.—From Sydney to
Hobart and vice versa every three weeks. Between
Melbourne and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; George Street, Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA. MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS: also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
10 include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 11s.; second-class rail and steerage on
steamer, £ 4 6s.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE FINE TWIN-SCREW STEAMER
“LEVUKA,” 6500 tons,
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
The “Levuka” is fitted with wireless and with
every modern convenience for the comfort of passen-
gers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 26
days, and from Sydney 18 days. Passengers desiring
a more extended tour can travel by S.S. “Amra,”
which connects at Suva.
E'or all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street,
Melbourne, or Burns, Pliilp & Co. Ltd.,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
Favorite Mail Route to Japan, with connections
at Japan to
EUROPE AND AMERICA.
Tours can be arranged to China, Japan, Korea,
by this Line.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN.
Via Brisbane, Townsville, Thursday
Island, Zamboanga, Manila, Hongkong,
Nagasaki, Kobe, and Yokohama.
j Passengers must obtain from the Quarantine
! Authorities permits to leave New South Wales at least
I three days before the steamer’s departure:
SPECIAL NOTICE. —All Passengers proceeding to
JAPAN must have their Passports vised by the Con-
sul-General for Japan in accordance with the regula-
! tions of the Japanese Government
Full particulars of Sailing Dates, Passage Money,
Freights, etc., apply
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LTD.,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
SYDNEY OFFICE: 105 PITT STREET.
Paid-up Capital . . . . • • £500,900
Reserve Fund . . . . .. • ■ 570,000
£1,070,000
Uncalled capital . . ■ • • • 125,000
Reserve 'Liability of Shareholders .. 625,000
£1,820,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 85 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.


Edison Blue Amberol
Records for May.
The May list is headed by a Special Grand Opera
Record —a really magnificent number —the famous quartet
from Verdi’s Rigoletto. sung in Italian by Alice \ erlet.
Merle Alcock, Arthur Middleton and Guido Ciccolmi
each of whom is an artist of International renown.
The Regular Records cover a wide range of tastes, and
every item is a real treat to music lovers.
Solos, quartets, band and orchestral music, a xylophone
selection, a conversational duet —you will be hard to
please if you are not suited with some of these.
Make up your order early from this list: —
Special Grand Opera List.
99006 —Rigoletto Quartet —Bella fig'lia dell amor (Verdi).
Mixed Voices, in Italian, orch acc. , „ ...
Alice Verlet, Merle Alcock, Arthur Middleton and Guido Oiccolinx.
Blue Amberol R.egular IV.ecords.
3289—Gentle Annie.
Male Voices, orch acc.
Apollo Quartet.
3304 —Some Sweet Day. Bye and Bye.
Mixed Voices, orch. ace.
Metropolitan Quartet.
3318 —Wonderful Girl, Good Night!
Soprano and Tenor, orch acc.
Rachael Grant and Billy Murray.
3320—Ain’t You Coming Back to Dixieland?
Fox-trot, for Dancing.
Jaudas’ Society Orchestra.
3323 — Joan of Arc (They Are Calling You).
Tenor, orch. acc.
Vernon Dulhart.
3324 Send Me Away With a Smile.
Baritone. , ,
Arthur Fields.
3328 —When Johnny Marches Away—Descriptive
Patrol. _ ,
New York Military Band.
333G —Wilhelmina Waltzes.
American Symphony Orchestra.
3354 —Lily of the Valley.
Conversational Duet, orch acc.
Ada Jones and Billy Murray.
3356 — Horest Injun—One-Step.
Xvloplione, orch. acc.
Lou Chiha “Frisco.”
3357 — Good-Bye, Good Luck, God Bless You
Medley—Waltz.
JaudaS' Society Orchestra.
3358 — Spirit of America —Patriotic Patrol.
New York Military Band.
3359 —Forever is a Long, Long Time.
Soprano, orch. acc.
Gladys Rice.
3362 —It's a Long Way Back to Mother’s Knee.
Tenor, orch. acc.
George Wilton Ballard.
3368 —It’s a Long Way to Berlin, but We’ll
Get There. Baritone, orch. acc.
Arthur Fields and Chorus.
3370 —Melody Land —“Cheer Up.’’
Baritone, orch. acc.
Lawrence E. Gilbert & Chorus of Girls.
3374 — There It Goes Again.
Tenor, orch acc.
Billy Murray & Chorus.
3375 — Hail! Hail! the Gang’s All Here!
Male Voices, orch acc.
Shannon Quartet.
3378 —I Don’t Want to Get Well.
Baritone, orch acc., assisted by Grace
Woods. Arthur Fields.
3382 — Wonderful Thing.
Soprano, orch. acc.
Betsy Lane Shepherd.
3383- the Sunset Turns the Ocean’s
Blue to Gold. Tenor, orch. acc.
George Wilton Ballard.
3385 —Nightingale’s Song—Pinafore.
Tenor, orch acc.
Vernon Dalhart and Chorus.
3392 —When the Lights are Low.
Contralto, orch acc.
Helen Clark.
3395 —Ballet Egyptian, Nos. 1 and 2.
American Symphony Orchestra.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD. (Wholesale only), 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
Types - and tfieir pipes
m
if*
Pis
**■
m
A
Tfie favorite of
Artisan c Aristocrat
Away back West —in Country Towns
and in the great Cities of Australia —
you will find thousands of smokers
enjoying the comfort of their
9\Pt
IS
Ln many popular shapes. For sale everywhere.
that are reliable and accurate.
We carry the finest range in Australia
■■BBHBBaa
“.4 marvel at the price .”
81. Steven’s Little Scout Single-
shot Rifle, 22 calibre. ISin.. round steel
barrel; open rear and knife-edged front sights.
Weight, about 2Mb
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/S; other States, 2/2.)
22/6
“Splendid for all small game."
1331. Marlin Repeating Rifle, 1897 Model,
24in. octagon or round barrel, 22 calibre rim lire,
magazine takes 25 short. 20 long, or 38 long rifle cartridges, case-
bardened receivers, fitted with sliding rear sights;
weight. sJlb. takedown Freight paid,
£.6
WE REPAIR ALL KINDS of GUNS and RIFLES.
“Simple and extra strong in construction."
810. Winchester Single-shot liiile, 1904 Model, for 22
short or long rim lire cartridges, 21in. heavy round steel barrel
plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight; length of rifle
over all. 374 in.; bead front sight, with patent alloyed tip,
which will not tarnish; weight, about 41b
(Postage—N.S.W., 2/-; other States, 3/8.)
41/-
r^s
msm
sis
SI
“Suitable jor small game and target shooting.
85. Stevens’ Visible Loading Repeating
Rifle, 22 calibre; magazine holds 15 short, 13
long or 11 long rifle cartridges, mixed or separate; 20in. round barrel
length over all, 35in.; weight 4ilb.; slide action, blade
front and screwiear sights Freight pan,
65/-
Owing to market fluctuations prices here quoted are subject to change
without notice.
flip, 21in.
idjustable i
“A perfect rabliter s rifle.
tßemington Hammerless Repeating Rifle,
■vitriol 12A 22 calibre, solid breech, side ejector, straight
•ound barred, handles 15 short, 12 long or 11 long rifle cartridges;
TIG Dtincij , itu
» - «■’“ *•* **•
951-
HVMHH
«Shoots with guaranteed accuracy.”
Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906
at /i"ni ifi-sliot. 20in. round barrel, plain trigger.
or \ong G rifle'cartrid^es; 1 wei
9 51-
3>
“EVER READY” PATENT
CIGARETTE MAKER
Simple and durable. Nothing to get out of order.
Full instructions with each one. pgJQ£ g pQST FREE
s &a
ssw2
S 3
iI A suitable weapon for the boy.
B 2 Stevens’ Marksman Rifle, 22 calibre, R.F.,
round barrel. 20in., chambered for long rine c i}.' „„„
ridges case-hardened frame, oiled walnut stock, open
front and rear sights; weight,
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
35/-
One of the hardest-hitting 22 cal. rifles on the market.
839. Remington Automatic Hammer le sis
Rifle, Model 10A, 22 calibre, take-down action, length of barrel
Inches. Magazine holds 15 cartridges. Weight 511 b.
Freight paid,
£7
814. "Winchester Repeating Rifles,
Model, 25/20-, 32-, 38-, 44-calibre, central _fire,
full or half magazine, 24in. barrel; weight, about 71b.
With Round Darrel Frei g ht ? aid ’
With Octagon Barrel Freight paid,
816. Winchester Repeating Carbines, 1892 Model,
25/20-, 32-, 38- or 44-calibres, central fire, full or half magazines,
20in, round barrel, weight about sjlb Frei 0 i pai
1892
£5/15-
£6
£5/10/-
Illustrated Firearms and Sports List Post Free to any address.
1C
• •
nVSTMLm'S GREATEST
SPORTS OUTFITTERS •
nm TOBMCCOMSTS
City Sports Depot
99 King St, also at
Newcastle <! Brisbane;


“Rexona Soap is My Soap,’
says Olga Robinson. Is it Yours ?
LITTLE OLGA ROBINSON
{from a Monte Luke photo)
Little Olga Robinson is Australia’s
youngest authoress. She is a born
genius in the art of graphic expres-
sion. Her book, “Olga’s Dreams and
Fancies,” dedicated to her firm friend,
Captain-Chaplain James Wilson, the
well-known War Lecturer, has just
been published, and has created a
sensation in art circles. Olga is but
seven years of age. Her mother
writes:—
I send you herewith a
photograph of Olga, just as
she looked when given a
present of a new box of
your beautiful liexona Soap.
She calls Rexona “My
Soap,” and positively re-
fuses to use any other.
Rexona certainly is a perfect
soap—it makes the skin so
healthy and silky to touch
and the hair so bright and
wholesome-looking. I need
not praise the little triangu-
lar tin of Rexona Ointment,
for everyone knows its
value. For cuts, abrasions*
and the thousand and one
accidents that happen in the
course of even one year,
there is nothing to equal it
as a healing agent.
1 think Olga must be the
youngest member of your
famous Rexona Club—she is
only seven.
With best wishes,
I remain, yours faithfully,
(Sgd.) MABEL ROBINSON.
They Go Together—Beauty and Rexona .
To obtain and keep that clear, unblemished skin., and bright, glossy hair which
is the desire of every girl and woman, you should use only an absolutely pure
vegetable soap. Such a soap is Rexona Skin and Racial Soap. It is cooling,
soothing and healing, and is medicated on the same principle as Rexona, the Rapid
Healer, the value of which, in the treatment of skin disease, is famous throughout
the world. Simply use Rexona Skin and Racial Soap regularly, and you will be
delighted with the improvement. Care for yourself and others will care for you.
Rexona Soap, 1/- per tablet. Rexona the Rapid Healer, 1/6 and 3/-
0
o
o
FAC
IA
3
MEDICATED SOAP
THE PALACE HOTEL,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OF PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
JOHN T. GLOWREY, Proprietor.
P ice 17/-. also Onoto Valveless
for those who do not want a Self-
Flliing Safety Pen 1 Z l 5 and up-
wards of all Stationers, Jewellers,
and Stores. Manufacturers: Thos.
Ds La Rub & Co., Ltd., Bunhill
Row London, E.C. Managing
Ag nts: Norman Baker & Long-
hurst, Sydney and Melbourne.
ASK FOR ONOTO INK-
BEST FOR ALL PENS.
Get the >
Pen made and warranted by the
Largest Firm of Fountain Pen
Manufacturersin Great Britian:
the Onoto. It is designed to last
a lifetime and guaranteed by its
makers. Fills itself, cleans itself,
and cannot leak.
note
The Self filling
Safety Fountain Pen.
Pen
The O.C.S. Automatic Weighing Machine
FOR FREE RUNNING MATERIALS. NO POWER REQUIRED.
Manufacturers and Im-
porters of—
Boiler Flour Mill
Machinery
Oatmeal Mill Machinery
Brewers’ and Malsters’
Machinery
Superphosphate
Machinery
Elevators of various
designs
Apron Conveyor Sj
Gravity Conveyors
Adjustable Feeders
and Mixers
Flour and Bran Packers
Grinding Mills for all
Classes of Materials
Bottle-filling Machines
for Piccalilli, etc.
HBH
SUe F 4.
Farmer s’ Grain
Cleaners
Link Belting
Sprocket Wheels
Elevator Buckets
Complete Grinding and
Dressing Plants for
Sugar, Spices, Starch,
Paint, etc.
Package Elevators
Bag Holders
Disc Grinding Mills
Malt Roller Mills
MADE IN AUSTRALIA,
SUPPORT OUR OWN INDUSTRIES.
Schumacher Mill Furnishing Works Pty. Ltd.,
PORT MELBOURNE, VICTORIA. [l
The Return of Fergus.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
/"N OD bless the yellow light of day,
fl -f Where wind and summer blossom
play
And under blue of laughing skies
Broad water lisps and runs and sighs,
While wavelets with a merry lip
Lift a curl of bubbled foam
To kiss and kiss the quiet ship
That brought him home, that brought him
home!
There sat a man below a tree,
A harp of strings upon his knee.
To Bann’s grey water, winding clear,
He sang old songs for half a year.
And, while he sang, below the green
Of laughing leaves went king and queen
Of years and dreams in cloth of gold
With gossamer of thought to hold
All that summer out of spring
With a happy wind can bring.
Would he stop or would he linger?
Och, the magic at his finger
Plucked to make a gladder strain —
Welcome, welcome home again!
The Chief went out across the sea,
Where deeds and dreams hold company
And continent and island tell
Of that which chanced and that which fell,
Of truth that sits above the graves,
Of hope that toils and faith that saves
And of a world, through pain redeemed,
Grown braver than the strong men dreamed.
It was good that he should see
With his two eyes that wizardry
Of peace and battle proudly met,
While new stars rose and old suns set,
And catch the song the lands must sing
To front the newer, nobler thing,
And hear in places far apart
The beatings of the Larger Heart,
While winds out of an older sea
Blew full the sails of memory.
The Chief went out. We ploughed the field
For yellow corn and barley yield.
We watched the gate, we walked the road.
Strong at his post the sentry strode;
And all the six green valleys saw,
Without the Chief, the Chief’s own law.
But day on day our hearts were fain
To see his ship come home again.
Now, in the yellow summer time,
Banu water to the woods makes rhyme.
Sleive Donard’s peak is far and blue
With lights and gleams of dreams come true;
And, laughing, by the Yew Tree Strand
We see his face and grasp his hand.
Good luck ! The woods are all in leaf.
The summer shouts to greet the Chief!
But I will sit below a tree,
Where all good dreams come back to me,
And make a lilt and turn a rhyme
That heeds nor place nor passing time.
1 think I Avatched for Fergus here,
Singing old songs for half a year ;
Or was it Conory that came,
Or some lost king without a name?
I know that then our hearts were true
When deeds were large and song was new
As now, with stranger tasks to do.
A little breeze comes up the land.
Och, wind and sea will understand
The singing welcome of a pen
When days bring home a Chief of Men!
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
The Conspiracy.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HE said his name was Daniel Brown.
“Daniel Arthur Halliwell Brown,"
he explained more precisely—“after
mother’s father, who was one of the Halli-
wells of Hampshire.” He sniffed in a way
peculiar to him when hinting at better days.
He blinked, too, with his small, watery eyes
turned a little upwards, and his mouth
pursed in an affected way. “We were con-
nections of the Deucenbies,” he added —“of
Deucenby Hall, you know.”
He was tying up my half-pound of mild
new cheese at the.time, and his head jigged
on its long, thin neck, like a crane exercis-
ing on one leg. He was afflicted with
some nervous derangement that set his
cranium dancing and twisting in this absurd
way at odd moments. “Papa was an en-
gineer,” he continued. “Eggs, nine half;
cheese, four half; tobacco, one three half.
Nothing else, then? Not to-day? Thank
kew! Two five half. Change, seven half.
Thank kew. Yes, very nice weather we are
having, Mrs. Barley. Thank kew.”
Brown always said “Thank you !” with the
accent on the “kew,” and he thanked every-
body for everything. Apparently he con-
sidered it a necessary part of the business.
His duties at Potter’s general store
(“Dairy produce, hay an corn, drygoods,
ironmongery. A supply of ready-made cof-
fins always available for selection. Orders
taken for Avedding-cakes and agricultural
machinery”) were practically unlimited.
There were accounts to be made up after
the store closed, and sweeping, dusting and
window-cleaning to be done before the store
opened. Apart from which Brown was
expected to assist in the more trifling domes-
tic arts, like washing-up, polishing knrves,
Avhipping eggs and mincing cold meat for the
breakfast hash, when opportunity offered.
Or he might be called upon by Mrs. Potter
to manage the Potter baby when it was
more than ordinarily unmanageable; and if
trade were slack he could dig in the garden,
chop the wood, or turn the wringing-machine
for Esther, the occasional maid.
“Thirty shillings a week,” Brown in-
formed me behind his hand with the air of
a man imparting an incredible fact—“and
keep.”
“Why stand it? There are plenty of bil-
lets going all over the place.”
His head jigged to an even livelier tune
than usual, his left eye winked spasmodi-
cally, and he leaned far over the counter
to favor me with another confidence.
“Must!” he said. “Must stay. Potter
keeps me on, others won’t. My ridiculous
infirmity, you know.” He offered a sample
of assorted nervous twitchings.
All my life I have invited confidence. I
have a literary man’s avid curiosity concern-
ing other people’s business, which other-
people, far from resenting, accept as a dis-
play of generous sympathy. This may
account for the trust Brown reposed in me,
and his disposition to open occasional key-
holes in his heart to my prying professional
eye.
“When I first came here the women com-
plained,” Brown whispered. “Dr. Trumble’s
wife said she had never been so insulted in
the whole course of her life, and Miss
Dalby’s father came to ask me what I
meant by it. Oh, yes, ma’am, sardines are
up, and pickled ling is up, but we have some
excellent tinned peas at one three. Thank
kew.”
It was not till after I killed the brown
snake Brown was about to sit on at
the Pigweed Wesleyan anniversary picnic
that the grocer’s assistant quite took me
to his heart. He held that I had saved
his life, and as one owes a certain responsi-
bility with regard to a man whose life one
has saved, I felt called upon to invite Browu
up for a smoke and a chat and a hand at
euchre any night he might happen to be at
large.
He had visited me two or three times
before he came in that Sunday night, look-
ing like an absurd ghost, and so jumpy that
for nearly half an hour he could hardly
articulate at all.
Suddenly he wheeled on me. “Look
here,” he said with a stutter, “I .wh-wh-
want to tut-tut-talk to you sus-seriously.”
He had a hand on my arm, gripping with
nervous force. “I’m going to confide in
you.” I don’t know how it came about,
but at that moment Brown seemed to have
become more of a man. He seemed really
to matter.
“Fire away,” said I.
“You’ve heard about people, criminals,
unfortunates, men with mortal sorrows,
wanting to pour out the secret they have
kept pent in their bosoms for years, nursing
it like a fatal pain that must not be told.
Perhaps you thought it affected rubbish. All
the same, it is true to human nature, piti-
fully true. I don’t believe there ever was a
man with a secret, however fatal, however
unholy, who did not long for a chance to
tumble it out of him, to unload it upon a
fellow creature. That is what I am going to
do —unload on you. The reason is that
treacherous craving to tell, tell, tell, for the
mere sake of telling, regardless of cost,
with a futile sort of hope that by sharing
the secret I may halve the burden. You
are broad-minded, you are liberal to human
infirmities, you seem to have a human inter-
est in a man.” He was silent for a moment,
too shaken to proceed, literally gasping for
breath, like a spent runner.
“Well?” I said, not discouragingly, mak-
ing play with my pipe to cloak a greedy in-
quisitiveness.
“My name is not Daniel Brown,” he said.
“I know nothing of Hampshire or anybody
in it. I was never out of Australia in ray
life. My true name is George Closter.” He
paused as if expecting some demonstration.
I smoked on. “I was born in Fitzi-oy; I
am an architect by profession. When I
was thirty I lived in a southern suburb with
my people—could I have a taste of some-
thing-—whisky, for choice?”
I gave him the whisky. He took his nob-
bier, shivered over it, dabbed his baldness,
and resumed.
“The trouble all began over Drake’s
rooster. You think me dippy? Wait.
Drake lived in Billing-street. His back ran
into Ring-street, w T liere I lived. Drake was
an old bachelor, rather deaf, rather cantan-
kerous, very exclusive. He had a high fence
all round his property, cutting himself off
from his neighbors. Not content, he put a
trellis above the fence, and trained thick
creepers up.”
Closter had settled into a much milder
mood ; he spoke now in a dull, even tone,
like a man rehearsing a dream that had
deeply impressed him.
“This Henry Drake (did I say his name
was Drake?) put in his time working a
large garden, a little suburban Eden, in
which every plum and peach and apple and
pear was guarded with as much devotion as
if it possessed a soul. But about one-third
of his ground Drake allotted to a model
poultry farm. We were packed rather
tightly in our modest villas all round
Drake’s comparatively extensive lot, and any
assemblage of poultry in such circumstances
must develop into a public nuisance. Drake’s
collection became a nuisance of the aggra-
vated kind by reason of Henry the Second.”
He paused reflectively and I filled in the
hiatus. “Henry the Second? You have not
mentioned him before.”
“Henry the Second was the rooster. He
was one of those large, loose, ungainly, slip-
shod birds, very like Drake himself, we all
thought. They are called Brahmapootras, I
imagine. Henry 11. had a tremendous
voice. His chuckle alone could be heard as
far as my front verandah, where I slept out,
and he was continually chuckling. It was
just as if he possessed private information
about something of an excruciatingly comic
character which was too good to impart to
ordinary acquaintances, and which he could
not get off bis mind.
“Does this seem humorous to you?”
George Closter broke off sharply, and was
regarding me with mournful interest- “Be-
cause it is really not at all a comic story;
but I find you cannot mention roosters, how-
ever seriously, without the matter immedi-
ately assuming a ludicrous tinge. We who
lived in Henry’s immediate vicinity, although
our objection to the bird, because of his
garrulousness, and his habit of guttural solil-
oquy, was absolutely sincere and founded
on considerable personal suffering, soon dis-
covered that we could not maintain a seri-
ous tone in the stand we took against
Drake’s misplaced barnyard. The name
Henry 11. we had bestowed upon our princi-
pal enemy in a spirit of levity. In all our
assaults. upon Drake there appeared this
debilitating sense of drollery. Yet I ask
you to believe that in all my life I had en-
(Continued on next page.)


BACKACHE DAYS and NIGHTS
Do you realise that Pains in the Bach, Limbs or Joints, Weak Heart, Irritability,
Languor, Sleeplessness, Dizziness and Urinary Troubles are symptoms of SERIOUS
KIDNEY WEAKNESS?
Kidney Disease conies on quietly and may take you unawares, for often its
symptoms are put down to other causes —a serious mistake in many cases. Early
symptoms are pain and tenderness in the back and groin, bladder irritation, stiff or
aching limbs, scarcity or excess of urine, sediment, night sweats —chilly, moist or
swollen extremities —drowsiness, blurred sight, dizziness and morbid depression.
For when diseased the kidneys fail to purify the blood, so that uric acid and other
poisonous matter is collecting in the system, causing rheumatism, stone, dropsy, gravel,
sciatica, lumbago and other complications.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are a tonic for the kidneys, which they heal and
strengthen, enabling these all-important organs to rid the system of poisonous deposits
that are setting up disease throughout the body. They promote a healthy flow in the
urinary channels, which relieves irritation, soothes the bladder and dissolves stone and
gravel.
Keep the kidneys well and they will keep you well, but you must get the right medicine.
A WOMAN’S CASK.
Mrs. F. Anderson. Fitzroy, 33 Montague
Street, Balmain, Sydney, says:—“l suffered
with my kidneys for a good while, the result
being that I was tortured with backache,
the pain at times being so acute that I had
to lie up. It centred just above the kidneys,
and never seemed to leave me day or night.
My ankles and legs swelled somewhat and
were sore to the touch, and I always felt
tired and languid, having no energy for
anything. I was really in a very poor state
of health, but although I tried different
things from time to time I got no relief
from my suffering. About two years ago I
was advised to take a course of Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills, and they were
spoken of so highly that I made up my mind
to try them. After using a couple of
bottles I felt much better, and as I con-
tinued taking the pills the improvement
was maintained, five bottles effecting a per-
fect cure, and I have been well ever since.”
Sydney
Proof
for
Sydney
People.
A MAN’S CASE.
Mr. Robert Larcombe, Monumental Mason,
Lidcombe, Sydney, says:—“Off and on for
years I suffered agony from backache and
kidney trouble. I would go to bed feeling
fairly well, but on rising in the morning
my back would ache terribly. The pains
were sharp and shooting, and centred just
above the kidneys. The secretions were
also affected. I was advised to try Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills, and I sent for some
at once. After using the first couple of
bottles I felt better, and five bottles com-
pletely cured me. I can recommend Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills to all who suffer
with their kidneys, and feel sure they will
derive benefit from them.”
Five years later Mr. Larcombe says:—“lt
is over five years since Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills cured me of kidney trouble,
and I have had no return of the complaint
all that time.”
'lEvery Picture
Story
Tells
I
''V
1
i
1
§§
I
I
I
1
i
wm
1
1
1
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are
sold at 2/9 per bottle, at all Chemists
and Stores, or post free from Foster-
McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Backache
Kidney
countered nothing that affected me nearly
as keenly, as persistently, as ruinously, as
did this maliginant rooster.”
George Cluster took out his large, colored
handkerchief, and went carefully round and
round the apex of his curiously conical bald-
ness, moved closer to me, and resumed with
great impressiveness:
•‘Henry was one of the loudest roosters
that ever lived. We had expert opinion on
this point when meditating our first legal
action. Henry was the first bird up ;he
was the last bird to bed. He crowed imme-
diately on rising; he crowed the last thing
on retiring; he crowed on an average once
every seven and a half minutes all day long,
and he invariably awakened at least twice
during the night to indulge himself in pro-
tracted bouts of hoarse crowing, crowing
that had a curious and peculiarly irritating
inquisitorial note in it.
“Here again I am not talking without
authority. We had the statistics compiled;
the number of Henry’s crows was carefully
registered to be produced as sworn testi-
mony in a court of law. The nature of his
outcry was as accurately recorded. Henry
began his night Growings with a simple ques-
tion. He paused for an answer. He re-
peated the question in a slightly more urgent
tone. He paused again. Once more he
submitted his point, but again with added
emphasis. If he got no reply, he worked
himself into a kind of madness, and the
whole neighborhood lay awake for hours,
with strained nerves, listening for that
reply, hoping for it, praying to Heaven for
it as a kind of salvation.
“We had previously taken legal action
against Drake, attacking him as a common
nuisance, but were ruled out almost immedi-
ately on the ground that crowing was the
natural method of expression with birds of
Henry’s sex and character. On appeal we
lost again, the learned Judge arguing that
Drake could not be held responsible for
the curiously neurotic condition of the
people with whom it was his misfortune to
be associated.
“We had five cases against Drake in the
course of eighteen months, and I, as chief
sufferer, was the most active agent in each
instance. I was president, and secretary
too, of the Society for the Suppression of
Henry, a body that met once fortnightly to
consider ways and means of mitigating the
grave nuisance prevalent in our neighbor-
hood. This society, I must admit, was much
too farcical in tone, due to our pathetic in-
ability to candidly confess the reality of the
anguish Henry inflicted upon us nightly and
daily, week in and week out.
“It was I who put to the meeting the sug-
gestion for a surgical operation. It had
occurred to me that if Henry’s vocal cords
were subjected to professional treatment it
might result in his being effectually silenced,
and as a silent fowl we recognised that he
might prove wholly unobjectionable. Here
again we were guilty of a trivial, whimsical
attitude towards a grim public evil, a men-
ace to the physical and mental weal of a
whole neighborhood.
“Dawson, a young medical student, under-
took to carry out the wishes of the meeting,
It was his boyish idea of a happy, practical
j oke> We provided him with a ladder m
Keeting’s back yard, and saw him oyer the
dividing fence. Dawson did his work well,
We heard no flutter from Henry 11., not a
whisper of protest, and presently Dawson
returned in triumph. The deed was done,
That night we had not a word from Henry,
Next day there was comparative peace in
Drake’s back yard. We were talking of a
dinner to fittingly mark the occasion, but
even as the matter was being discussed came
a curious sound. It was an eerie sound,
something in it of the piping of a siren, some-
thing of the call of a homeless ghost. In a
week the new cry had developed into a stri-
dent and piercing, whistling shriek that tore
the nerves like the jag of a saw, and brought
a man jumping from his sleep in the hideous
belief that murder and abominations most
hideous wtre being done,
“Dawson had cut out Henry’s crow, he
fi a( j left Henry’s vocal organs maimed and
warped maybe, but his operation had served
to increase a hundred-fold the bird’s diaboli-
cal power of inflicting pain. Henry was now
a fiendish instrument of torture, a vast, in-
sistent, red-hot probe of sound, dipping into
one’s vitals, stirring one’s brain, picking out
one’s nerves and toying with them, stretch-
ing them, tweaking, tearing. My God, it was
horrible!”
Closter’s handkerchief was sweeping round
and round his bald cone again. The man
was tremendously in earnest, his lips jerked,
the sweat jumped from his pores. I gave
him more whisky, and he gulped like a
parched animal.
“It was not to be borne. I knew a fellow
named Willis—-‘Billy the Kill,’ they called
him. I had met him and heard much of him
during a couple of years when I was mfatu-
a*ed boxing, and attended all sorts of
some in the lowest cribs. This
Malhs w-as a fifth-rate pug, a hanger-on
a^ boxing stables, a tug of the meanest
sort, and it was said of him that he would
do an ything for pay. .
“At a meeting of the Society for the Sup-
pression of Henry, I introduced the idea of
the immediate assassination of Henry 11.
The night before I had literallv fallen from
*P. y ed and }}’i'ithed on the floor in torment,
Uistracted with insomnia, lacerated m spirit
m the very flesh, it seemed by the maniacal
cry ° f Drake’s brutal bird.” Closter paused
awaiting some semblance of self-
control. “Yet I made my suggestion as a
joke; it was received as a splendid absurdity,
£ nd ’ we agrced with mock solemnity that a
committee of the whole should interview
Billy the Kill, and bribe him with what
funds remained in the possession of the
treasurer to steal in by night and slay Henry
11. for the common good,
“The night that Willis attended saw the
final meeting of the Society for the Suppres-
sion of Henry. The vathering was held in a
room in my house. The necessity of killing
Henry was Briefly and humorously touched
upon; the manner thereof, it was agreed,
must be left entirely to the discretion of the
society’s hired bravado. Then the question
was put to Willis: Was he willing to do this
thing for the price stipulated and within the
time specified?
“ ‘Acourse I am,’ said Billy the Kill.
•Wot else am I ’ere for?’
“Billy the Kill was paid 15s. down, and left
the house. He was to report to me, with due
precautions, and in secret, when success had
attended his effort. The meeting then broke up
“It was two in the morning and pitch dark
when Willis came stealing to my house
again.
“ ‘lt’s done, boss.’ said he, ‘and there’s to
prove it.’ He showed me the blood upon his
hands.
“I paid him the balance of the thirty
shillings, and he left. I danced around my
room, I capered with joy, I sang a foolish
chorus from an idiotic music-hall song then
popular. My enemy was dead. But even
as I sang there came the familiar, detested
scream of a mad thing piercing the night, the
broken, abominable crow of Drake’s Brahma-
pootra.
“Willis had deceived me, bilked me, blighted
my last hope. I knew now I must abandon
the home in which I was rooted deep like a
comfortable tree, and break with a hundred
things that had become essential to ease and
content. Henry had triumphed. I went to
bed, beaten, distracted, but not to sleep, for
Henry had never been so clamorous, so in-
sistent, as he was during the next three
hours.
“It was Keeting who came to me in the
grey light of morning. The man was
pale as a corpse: he trembled visibly, shak-
ing my bed where he sat.
“ ‘You will have to get out of this,’ he
said in a low voice fierce with apprehension.
‘Pack a bag and go before daylight. They
will be after you in a few hours. That man
Willis misunderstood everything. Oh. the
fool! The mad, blind idiot!’ He almost
dragged me from my bed. ‘You’re in it
worst.’ he said. ‘lt was all your doing.
They’ll have you. Already it is discovered.
The place is full of horror-stricken people—
the street is astir !’ ”
Cluster had shifted so close to me that I
could bear the pulsing of his heart no longer.
I moved away. He made a whimpering
sound, and again he mopped his bald head,
on which the globules of perspiration rose
suddenly like moisture from a squeezed
sponge, ran into pools and sprawled down his
cheeks.
“I went,” he said. “I stole from my home
like a thief. I never went back. I can never
go back. Billy the Kill had not been faith-
less. He had misapprehended our folly ; but
lie had been all too conscientious. For thirty
shillings he had murdered Henry Drake!”
EDWARD DYSON.
The Woman-hater.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IN my official capacity as back-stop to the
cook, I staggered across to the wool shed
from the galley. A kerosene-tin of tea
in one hand and a basket of brownie in the
other, plus a string of tin pints festooned
about one’s neck, is sufficient to cause the
stoutest to stagger after ten chains of the
journey has been traversed. Depositing the
“lunch” on the board, I sank in my tracks
near a small group of shearers to recover
my wind.
Tully, the son of a small Warrego selec-
tor, had a learner’s pen. He was chiefly
noticeable for his ignorance, credulity and
aversion to women. That last attribute
amounted to an obsession with him. Most
women-haters are merely men who are in-
different to the lure of the average woman :
as a rule, they meet their Waterloo sooner
or later. But Tully was a genuine, dyed-in-
the-wool woman-hater. He feared a woman,
especially a young and pretty one. more than
anything else on earth. The girls in all the
western pubs lie Stayed at gave him a rough
time accordingly.
Tully’s mate, a Maorilander called Silvy
Gunn, was explaining to the group the
wonderful tallies that could be put up on
the Canterbury crossbreds. Incidentally, he
was trying to persuade Tully to make the
trip over the Tasman with him. Gunn was
a shrewd, witty little rat of a man, and he
seemed to derive endless amusement from
Tully’s companionship; otherwise they obvi-
ously had nothing in common, for, as old
Carstairs, the boss, was heard one day to
remark: “Tully is steeped in abysmal
ignorance.”
Tully appeared to be eager to try his hand
on the Canterbury crossbreds, but, clearly,
something was on his mind. Gunn divined
his anxiety, and gave it voice.
“If it’s the lady passengers on the boat
or the stewardesses you’re scared about, you
needn’t worry, ’cos we’ll go on a inailboat:
they don't carry any females on the mail-
boat a.”
Gunn winked at the others, and Tully was
plainly relieved by his mate’s explanation;
but it was evident that the fog of doubt had
not quite lifted from his mind. He would
not say definitely that he would go, and
was sparring for wind, as it were, when I
started back for the galley. Half-way across
the wool-room, I became conscious of the
patter of moccasined feet behind me. and the
next instant Tully’s freckled paw fell on my
shoulder. He dragged me into the angle of
a wool-bin and gazed earnestly into my face.
“Look ’ere, .Joe,” he entreated. “You bin
a —watcher call it? —a stooard, ain’t it?”
I confessed to having lived the giddy life
of a “hunk.”
“Bin all over the shop,” he continued,
“thousands o’ miles—Sooeez Canal an'
Columbio, an’ all that?”
I nodded.
He looked swiftly about to make sure he
could not be overheard, swallowed his
Aaam’s-apple violently several times, and
bent down close to my ear.
“Tellus, man to man,” he whispered
hoarsely. “Is it a dinkum go about these
’ere flamin’ mermaids?”
R. S. ADAMS.


ms
V.. .in.
m
rit
■v>
* m*
vi
'*&» '
■iff-
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCH6USE BRAKE GO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents-HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N Z. Office—o 3-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—BC Queen Stree^,JMelbourne l ___
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
ip#
Built to Withstand the
Hardest Use.
CLYDESDALE Lorries are built to with-
stand rough-going roads that are uneven,
rocky or sandy. This Lorry steadily pulls
its way through.
This powerful, economical, workaday Lorry is
working its way into favor by its low cost of
maintenance in the transportation of goods.
Investigate why Clydesdale owners will have
no other.
H. D. VAN BRUNT, Factory Representative, P.O. Box 2093.
Sydney, AUSTRALIA.
New South Wales Distributors: HARDY-JOHNSON MOTOR
CO., 54-56 Wentworth Avenue, SYDNEY.
New Zealand Distributors: INGLIS BROS. & CO. LTD.,
Harris Street, WELLINGTON.
T. E. SHIEL & CO., Stafford Street, DUNEDIN.
THE CLYRE CARS COMPANY,
44 Whitehall Street, New York, U.S.A.
Cable Address—CROMOTOR.
/3ft
m
R
/i
■! SP'
Z3&3S
sua
?j.
Oeminstofh
'V UMC
0
©
Sbb “ * ■
AnilS and Ammunition
Used throughout the
world by leading sports-
men. Sold by ironmongers
and sporting goods dealers
everywhere.
Uoss H©
in dealing with disorders of the.digestive system. Decision in procuring
the proper remedy and taking it in good time will well repay you. The
probability is that you will be saved no end of trouble as the result of
prompt action. There is no better medicine for disorders of the stomach,
liver and bowels than Beecham’s Pills.
In Taking
this medicine your confidence in the result will be confirmed by the
fact that Beecham’s Pills have been affording the greatest assistance to
dyspeptic sufferers for many years. Beecham’s Pills are one of the
oldest and best medicines. They are highly recommended by multitudes
of people who are proving their value at the present time. At the first
warning of stomach trouble—lose no time—act promptly—take
_ _ __ « H
Sold in boxes, labelled price 10(36 pills), 1/1£ (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
ARE YOU
UR
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonial*
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW: it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL.
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
849 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
The Medicine your
Grandparents used
Pills come and pills have gone for half a
century, but Carter’s Little Liver Pills
have all the time been giving health, strength
and happiness to millions.
Large pills and harsh pur-
gatives act violently on
liver and bowels ; this
old, gentle, sure con-
stipation remedy
cures without hurt-
ing. Good for
old and young.
Purely
Vegetable.
£
CARTELS
ITTLE
IV ER
Small Pill—Small Dose— Small Prloa,
GENUINE must bear signature
mm
For Easier Tube-Screwing
OSTER
v_/ TACKLE
Oster Screwing
Tackle is a family
of sturdy, clear
cutting tool
which take th
unnecessary wor!
out of tube-
screwing.
Oster Screwing
Tackle has every
feature that
makes for easier
and better tube-
screwing. Get in
touch with an
Oster dealer o.nd
examine a Match-
less.
■■
■J-si;
MATCHLESS DIE-STOCKS
Entirely self-contained, no loose dies, set-screws or bushings. Easy
to adjust—easy to start —the easiest cutting tool you can buy.
Leader screw protected by patented chip shield which absolutely
prevents clogging.
Carried in stock, with parts, by ironmongers, machinery and
hardware and plumbing supply houses.
Australasian Representative —
CHARLES WRIGHT, Turner Chambers, I&Hunter St., Sydney
The Oster Manufacturing Co.,
Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A. [S
10|
Post Free
Thousands in Use.
( Patented )
fig f
10/-
each
Post Free
With Full Particulars
and Illustrated Circular.
The simplicity, lightness and excellence of the
Dreadnought is fully maintained.
Titan Manufacturing Company,
Norman by Road, SOUTH


Mangrovit
3 leather I
LTI
THE BEST BELTING
Because it grips the pulleys and thus trans-
mits maximum power to the machinery. Gives
first aid to increased production. It is strong,
durable, flexible and proves its merit on the
about i? CUlt drives ‘ Ask us t 0 tell you more
Mangrovite Belting Ltd.
(Charles Ludowici, Managing Director),
York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney, N.S.W
Western Australia: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Perth
S th Australia: John Reid & Sons Ltd., Adelaide
The Eagle 8 Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
379 Kent Street,
Sydney.
Charle8 r AtUinB r & ro Mel A° l i r -'.? : Kal »®<> r »« and Fremantle, W.A.
Charles Atkins & Co., Adelaide. Paul & Gray Ltd j Newcastle.
John Keld & Nephews, Brisbane.
KNIVES FOR
WOODWORKING MACHINES
£
1
M
s.
|§M|M
frenfou? own V m lateriaITEEI'"CIJTTING I ateriaI TEE1 '" ClJTTING EOGESI with Iron Backs, »>ade to your order
whether 6 for r Fix«f Hem? C kV thickness, length and width of slots;
necessary. or ova^^e Bolts. If Fixed Heads Template absolutely
Har die’s “Fibrolite”*® >
GENUINE ASBESTOS CEMENT SHEETS
are less costly yet far more durable and
safe than weatherboard.
“Fibrolite” will not warp or crack —it
is Fire-retardant, Rust-, Rot- and
Weather-proof.
Insurances for “Fibrolite” are 25% below
the charges for weatherboard.
Send for Free Booklet,
which gives full particu-
lars. Ask also for sample
and test it yourself.
James Hardie & Co. Ltd.,
“Asbestos House,”
Gor. YORK & WYNYARD STREETS,
SYDNEY.
’Phone 8456 (4 lines).
581-3 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
30 Currie Street, ADELAIDE.
Defies Time’s Touch.
TRADJJARK
IS
AUSTRALIAN,
When being turned THIS HIGH-GRADE BEARING
METAL yields a harvest of curly, wire-like scrap, which
denotes that the material is TOUGH, of EVEN GRAIN
and FREE FROM IMPERFECTIONS.
ROBERT C.
304 Pitt Street,
The House fox*
This PHOSPHOR BRONZE of OURS is GUARANTEED.
Should it in the turning show the least sign of defect, we
will replace free of charge. LARGE STOCKS of All
Sizes. Special Sizes, to order, supplied in a day or two.
SWAN & CO. Ltd.
Sydney,
Motor Engineers* Supplies.
m
: •.
“Clayton” Portable Steam Engine.
“Tangye” Portable Lampless
Oil Engine.
“Star” Portable Oil Engine.
Dalgety’s Machinery Agencies
comprise
TANCYE’S Lampless Oil Engines, Benzine Engines, Suction Cas Plants, Pumps of all t« n « n t„
S»up T Mn£° rta M e ! t6am En _B* n es.WOLSELEY Sheep Shearing Machines. BUNCLEChaffcutters
CANE Milking Machines. E.R.B. Separator Engines, Pumping Engines, Crutehme* Plante
TRIUMPH Oil and Benzine Engines, Vertical Type “STAR” Portablf OH Engines, "fc '
MACHINERY DEPARTMENT MILLER’S POINT, SYDNEY.
Triumph Oil or Benzine
Engine.
E.R.B. Separator
Engine.
■ a 1
Buncle Travelling: Chaffoutter
AUVW
wSSs
hearing Machines
Repairs to Handpieces.
Be prepared for the coining season’s work—send in your hand-
pieces for thorough overhauling and repairing NOW, and avoid
possible disappointment due to delay.
A special plant has been installed at our Sydney workshops for
the sole purpose of making the necessary adjustments—our expert
handling ensures the utmost satisfaction.
DALGETY & CO. LTD. Australasian Agents : All Branches.
Designed to handle to-day’s work under to-day’s conditions —
CINCINNATI PORTABLE ELECTRIC
liand and Breast Drills Heavy Duty Radials
Heavy Duty Drills Tool Post Grinders
Bench Grinders.
bTjTinßgo/etlTR g o/ e tlTl S c^venien C i r Ci ?K ati " D T\ n or Grinder count for big savings in time, power and
Heavy material from place to uiace °tk ab^ e to THEM TO THE WORK instead of moving
SOURCE OF POWER—either fr wan ;^ ei f- a “ d . ANY LAMP SOCKET IS A
a. UK ALTERNATING. Write to Sole Agents for Complete Catalogue.
& Lacy Co. Ltd.
Engineers & Machinery Merchants,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
r
f rr' \
A*
m*
THE LATEST in ROCK DRILLS
ALL BRITISH
“HYDROMAX” and “HYDROMITE”
Hammer Drill Stopers, fitted with Hollow Drill Water Spray.
“HYDROMAX” Stopers weigh only 751 b.
‘‘HYDROM ITE ” has the same features as “HYDROMAX,” but is essentially a one-man
ffter tryiSgall°othe?s 81b ' F “ ty ° f theSe DriUs installed in olie alone in Scotland,
mSrpas^ed. 1 Se,£ - ,otatin S’ Hand-hammer Drills, fitted with patent air valve, are
Also Pneumatic Riveters, Chippers, etc. *
Co a JJ u£actured by “The Climax lAock Drill and Engineering Works,” Cam Brea
Sis
-
>-' &■'■ £3#! - - v '£&&££s&
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA:
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., Equitable Buildings, 350 George Street, Sydney.
