

DEWA.R 7 S —The Spirit of Geniality
Machinery Merchants,
Kent S tyreety
Milling
Specialty
107
—FOB—
and Contractors’ Plant. Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery,
AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants a ways a
Sydney,
Mining Requisites.
"uiilllli
i2
W" -
)m\\\\\miii/mii/m
\mMum-
N S W- MONT de PIETE D & I C9T LIMITED,
74 5T.,74. Sydney.
-ADVANCES -
ON ALL CLASSES
OF SECURITY*
WITHOUT POSSESSION
_ 215-17Swanston stJlflb„ 40 Adelaide 5t., Brisbane.
29 Kinq St., Newcastle. 186 Castlereagh 51., & 150 George Stalest, Sydney. n _ oe
CAPITAL & 200, 000 PKorie City 9 3Zt> .
£u s-tace , Ges2es , *aty
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not he laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete D. and I. Co. Ltd.”
m
'mv,a
%
f
'J
I
hy
Fe/nciag Wire
Enables you to erect the
best permanent fences at
lowest cost.
Each roll of “Watatah
Fencing Wire bears an
identification tag, winch
guarantees quality, strength
and full measure. It is far
ahead of imported wires and
costs less.
Your storekeeper can supply
“Waratah” —we supply the trade
only. Fencing Booklet N. 19 free on
request. Austrai Nail Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Ferrars Street, South Melbourne.
Argued
/M/
£
pPLE
fi
£
m
Nothing
to Arcuc
About!"
%
1
lli
'lk
“ Are the Best ~s
JT.
JUNKER made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
tlunKet,
eor INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily alter
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
The family stimulant
n
is “not the same as others .
ilie UL.ut ENGINEERING COMPANY L ?
GRANVILLE,
N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS.
Railway Rolling Stock of all Descriptions » Road Metal and Farm Waggons . Portable Steam Engines .
Sugar Mill Machinery . Heavy Iron & Malleable Castings . Cast-iron Porcelain-Enamelled Baths,Sinks, etc .
Arthur
<5 (3
MACHINERY.
Head Ottice,
SYDNEY.
Build “Leplastriers” Long-lasting,
Modern, Machinery-made Roads.
ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH
Famous Brands of
HIGH-SPEED STEEL & DRILLS
“A.W.'* “T.Y.R.’* “A,W. PREMIER.”
manufactured by
Sir W. 0. ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH & CO. LTD.
MANCHESTER, ENGLAND.
Sole Australian Representatives:
Co. Ltd.,
115 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
LARGE STOCKS CARRIED
PLEASANT AND
A TRUE ANTISEPTIC-
TOOTH PASTE.
AUSTRALIA'S BEST.
The Bulletin
Y01.40.—N0. 2050.]
[Thursday, May 29, 19 L 9.
PRICE 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, tor Transm.ss.on by Post as a Newspaper^


BEFORE THE MIRROR
By “JEANNETTE.”
These are, undoubtedly, days of exceptional nervous strain for one and
all of us. Anxiety, with its beauty-destroying influence, is casting its shadow
over the lives of many of us women, and while perhaps a few—the more
stoical among us—can avoid worrying over past and prospective events we
may all, with a little care and forethought, succeed in preventing the results
of worry from being noticeable in our appearance. To these fortunate
few this little chat will, however, be as interesting and instructive as to
those who stand in real need of help in toilet matters, and may be the
means of bringing to their notice some hitherto unknown method of retain-
ing or regaining that beauty of face and figure which is the birthright of
every woman. Some of the ingredients mentioned below are, at present not
.generally known to the public, but any good chemist will usually be found to
have a small quantity in stock.
Wrinkles, and How to Remove them.—Worry,
late hours or the passing of old Father Time
may cause those ugly little lines which so
detract from the freshness and charm of a
woman’s face; but the cure Is always the
same. Feed the tissues beneath the skin, and
massage them with a reliable skin iood, which,
while nourishing the fatty tissues, will not
coarsen the skin nor grow hairs upon the
face, as so many inferior creams do. To
remove the wrinkles, bathe the face with hot
water, wipe it dry, then, while it is still
warm, smear a little mercolized wax over the
whole face, carrying it well down on the neck,
and, with the tips of the fingers, rub it gentlv
into the pores, working in an upward and
outward direction. Wipe off any superfluous
wax, leaving a little on the skin all night.
In the morning wash off with warm water
and Pilenta soap. The use of the wax not
only feeds the skin, but removes the dead
outer cuticle, giving the fresh young skin
beneath an opportunity to breathe and show
itself.
Beautiful Hair—How to Shampoo.—Whether
the hair is luxuriant and glossy, or thin and
lanky, depends very largely upon the care
bestowed upon it. To keep the hair in good
condition it should be shampooed once in
every two or three weeks. Before shampooing,
massage a little pure olive oil or almond oil
into the scalp, then mix one teaspoonful of
stallax granules in a cup of hot water, fill a
basin with warm water, into which the ends
of the hair can fall, and shampoo the stallax
mixture into the scalp in the usual way.
Rinse and dry by fanning with a palm fan, or
in the open air, if the weather permits. Should
the hair be naturally very greasy, the oil
massage should be omitted. Stallax can be
bought at any chemist’s in quarter-pound
sealed packages; It keeps indefinitely, and one
package contains sufficient for 25 or 30
-shampoos.
A Greasy Skin and Blackheads—Blackheads
are absolutely fatal to beauty, for they give a
coarse, dirty look to the face which no cos-
metics can ever hide. The way to remove
blackheads quickly and effectively has only
recently been discovered. For many years those
who suffered in this way were restricted in
their diet, denied sweets and had to suffer
other privations. Modern science has, how-
ever, provided a simple, effective and quick
remedy. Dissolve one stymol tablet in a
glass of hot water, and when the effervescence
has subsided, dip a small, soft sponge into the
liquid and bathe the face. Leave for a few
minutes, then dry with a towel, and the black-
heads will come off. For a greasy skin bathe
the face three times a week with stymol and
spray with cold water every morning, using a
vulcanite throat spray.
To Improve the Eyebrows and Eyelashes.—
Long, curling eyelashes make the most in-
different eyes look attractive, and. while no
one can alter the color, shape or size of the
eyes, all may possess luxuriant eyelashes and
well-shaped eyebrows. To increase the growth
of the eyelashes rub a little mennaline into-
the roots very gently every night. Mennaline
is a perfectly harmless and delicate pomade-
like substance which may be obtained at any
chemist’s. For the eyebrows smear a little of
the mennaline on a small soft brush, and
brush into the eyebrows in a straight or
arched direction, according to how you wish
them to grow. A month’s treatment should
see a marked improvement.
ANSWERS
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
CAIRO.—No, I am not surprised at hearing
from a reader so far away, as I get letters
from every part of the world. I expect it is
the heat that has caused you to put on weight
so rapidly, and can quite understand how
much it adds to your age. Get a small quan-
tity of clynol berries and eat one after each
meal. They will permanently reduce your
weight, are quite harmless, and you need
make no alteration in your diet.
QUEEN BESS.—Thirty is far too young to
have grey hairs, and you must not allow the
trouble to increase. Get two ounces of tamma-
lite. mix it with three ounces of bay rum, and
apply to the hair with a small, soft sponge.
This will restore the grey and fading hair to
its original color.
EMMELINE.—For your muddy-lookiug skin
get a tin of mercolised wax and rub a little
well into the face and neck every night. Leave
on till morning, then wash off, using Pilenta
soap and warm water. This will remove the
dead outer skin and leave the complexion soft,
fresh and smooth.
JESSIE.—To remove the hairs from the lip
and chin get an ounce of powdered pheminol
and use as directed. Then apply tekko paste
several times daily for some weeks. This com-
bined treatment will permanently remove all
trace of liair from your face.
FRECKLED LASS.—To prevent the freckles
from appearing use a cleminite lotion. Get an
ounce of cleminite and mix it with four ounces
of warm water, allow to cool, then dab over
the face. This will not only protect the skin
from sunburn and freckles, but will give it a
dainty fresh look far superior to the bloom
imparted by the finest powder. [3
THE ROUND TABLE
A Quarterly Review of the Politics of the
British Commonwealth.
'THE contents of the March number include a
Record of the Australian Forces in the War;
articles on Bolshevik Aims and Bolshevik Ideals;
The Practical Organisation of Peace: Indian Poli-
tics ; America and World Responsibility; and con-
tributions from the Dominions.
Price, 2/6 per copy; 10/- per annum.
Messrs. Macmillan & Co. Ltd., Russell St., Melbourne.
MULLEN’S BOOK SALE
MULLEN’S BOOK SALE
MULLEN’S BOOK SALE
To enable bookbuyers all over Australia to
share in our wonderful reductions, we have
ready for distribution a large
32-Page Sale Catalogue
32-Page Sale Catalogue
32-Page Sale Catalogue
Post free to any address. Containing nearly
3000 items classified into subjects. Write
at once.
MELVILLE & MULLEN PTY. LTD.,
262-264 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation In Australia.
»
For Constipation
Constipation is dangerous be-
cause it means that poisonous
materials which should have been
expelled from the body are being
retained. The appetite fails, diges-
tion becomes disordered and the
breath offensive, Pinkettes, the new
laxative, are a real help in correct-
ing constipation.
They do not aggravate the com-
plaint as strong purgatives do; and
they do not wear out in their effects.
Taken according to directions they
assist the patient so that the use of
an opening medicine is not a con-
stant necessity.
1/- per bottle at all deale-s.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “The Bulletin.'
Hie Or. Williams’ Medicine Co.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
A LL AUSTKALIANS visiting London
iaL should read the British Austral
vsian, (id. weekly—an illustrated paper
ontaining mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Austbalasian
Heading Room at the Offices, 115 High Hol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
■harge.
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujube
What the Medical World says:— The
Lancet— “ Proved to be as effective bacteri-
cidally as is creosote.’’ THIS REPORT
FROM “THE LANCET” LABORATORY
IS UNDOUBTED EVIDENCE of the
VALUE OF EUMENTHOL JUJUBES as
an ANTISEPTIC. i/fc a Tin.
Sold at Chemists, Grocers, Storekeepers, or
Post Free from the Sole Manufacturers—
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CO M LTD.,
Sydney,
on receipt of 1/6 in stamps of ar
G.HUDSON
■aiM'N'ti'. feUKltt tv
The Red Page
THE CONQUEROR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
One aged man, however, expresses his individuality
remaining constant to the English Dictionary.
He never asks the librarian for anything else. His
standing order is ‘Another volume of the Dic-
tionary.’’’—Description of the South Yarra Braille
Library for the Blind.
The serried rows of dots spring into life
As down the page his lean white fingers pry ;
With noiseless clamor and with silent strife
The regiments of words troop slowly by,
Clad in the uniforms of earth and sky.
Their level ranks show bannerets which tell
Of valor, joys and laughter through the years,
And this one points to Heaven, and that to Hell,
While Birth and Death make mockery of tears.
He is their captain; he commands a band
.As vast, all-seeing, as the long-lost sun.
He counts his forces with a cunning hand,
And lingers on the value of each one.
Here treason may be feared, and these may run—
Riches, ambition, power, hate and dread.
He calls the roll of stauncher soldiers—rest,
And love, and beer, and sunshine, and white bread,
The wholesome syllables which fight the best.
And now he draws aside a pace and talks
With summer on the wideness of the skies ;
Or down the long, dim lane of memory walks
Beside the blue which once hid in her eyes,
Before the shadow came to make him wise.
When dawn glows on the page the misty night
Is shot with shafts of crimson, gold and pink;
The letters with the hordes of darkness fight,
With pauses now and then to sigh or wink.
This is no hermit telling wordy beads
And moping in the dust with head bowed low;
He is a captain strong whose firm hand leads
In search of continents where thoughts may
grow—
A conqueror whose march is safe but slow.
In his dark tent he sits alone with pride
To feel that earth and life are in his grip;
His soldiers bring him all things in their stride
Beneath the sceptre of his finger-tip.
VICTORIA.
DALE COLLINS.
Bathsheba do Medici of Franco -
Israel
She was an Old Testament lady who
diverted the whole course of the world’s his-
tory—Bathsheba de Medici. Catherine de
Medici was her reincarnation, these ladies
being the joint mother of Henry Solomon
111., otherwise Solomon de Valois.
David stands out conspicuously in Hebrew
history. Like Saul he was the creation
of Samuel, the stout, sour king-maker,
whose personal grab at hereditary power
had failed through the inefficiency of his
sons. He was nominated by the king-
maker when Saul proved not sufficiently
subservient. First he was a soldier in the
King’s army with a reputation because he
killed a Philistine with a long shot when
the Philistine, having only a spear, couldn’t
retaliate. He was the King’s son-in-law.
Later he was a suspect; then a brigand;
then a general in the enemy’s army. Next
he was a petty sub-king at Hebron reigning
as a Philistine deputy. Finally a furious
civil war made him King of Israel—the only
one who held down the people with a stand-
ing army of mercenary idolaters —the
Cherethites, Pelethites and Gittites. To
find work and pay for them he went out on
a career of conquest and built a little empire.
He got control of Damascus and lands be-
yond, with the royal estates of the previous
sovereign, also the land-tax, income-tatf, poll-
tax and dog-tax and all the customs revenue
on one of the great stock-routes of Western
Asia. He took Moab and Ammon and the
ports at the head of the Red Sea, and sat
in the custom-house there. For once poor
little agricultural Israel was a great Pow r er
and a bloated capitalist and was able to build
temples, palaces and a home for the Young
Men’s Jewish Association.
In the time of David’s greatness, when he
was marrying frequently, Bathsheba de
Medici washed herself in public by way of
doing a mash, and caught the loose and rov-
ing royal eye. The King sent for her and
she did 100 yards in even time. It isn’t
even hinted that she made objection to being
stolen or to the putting of her foreign hus-
band out of the way so that she might be
promoted from mistress to wife. It was
the unpardonable sin, and Israel had no use
for Bathsheba, the lady of swift character,
or for her son, Henry Solomon de Valois
of dubious legitimacy. But she stood to
her guns, or at least to her bow and arrow;
and the army of trained and armor-plated
idolaters was behind her. The mothers of
ttie King s elder sons fade off the story.
Possibly they were set to cooking or mend-
“lg - . The elder sons grew wild and alarmed
2 f sa w that Bathsheba’s kid was
destined for the throne.
Absalom made his bid for the succession,
and the people were with him. There is a
P f f dented, dissipated and helter-
skelter Psalmist fleeing across the Jordan to
touc *. w , lth his mercenaries as they
fU Urr T» « outh from Damascus, north from
the Red Sea ports, and west from Moab and
Ahithophel. Absalom’s friend,
urged the new monarch to follow with such
forces as he had and end the war. Hushai,
the old monarch’s hired spy, persuaded him
to wait till ho had collected the whole
national tumult of farmers armed with
®b a .de s a &d °f. shopmen with yardsticks.
Ahithophel, realising that that meant giving
time for the hired and disciplined unbelievers
to get together, wisely hanged himself. As
the event proved, the mercenaries made hay
of the tumult of Israel and of Absalom also.
David avoided the disgrace of slaughtering
his own people in Bathsheba’s cause by lurk-
ing in the background.
Bathsheba still forged ahead. She wore
the Crown jewels and painted herself every
afternoon. The family of Saul, which
might have provided a candidate for the
throne, was hanged in a row. The bones
of Saul were dug up and chucked about.
David grew old and imbecile, and doddered
about with a new wife, who was a cipher
and didn’t signify. Adonijah, apparently
the last of the elder sons, felt his head loose
on his shoulders, and reached out for the
kingship. Bathsheba rushed the position,
and her dubious son, a mere boy, was made
sovereign before the old man was dead. The
consent of the Popular Assembly, considered
essential in the cases of Saul and David,
wasn’t asked. It wouldn’t have been given
in any case. Bathsheba breathed heavily
in her son’s ear, and he murdered his half-
brother Adonijah, so that there were no more
claimants. So Bathsheba de Medici
appears first as a lady who lost her honor
and her husband, and last as a lady who
lost her stepson. She was a great loser.
Henry Solomon 111. reigned long and
expensively. He made friends by much out-
lay with the priests who wrote Scripture,
and they extolled his wisdom, of which they
could furnish only one sample—a judgment
about a disputed child that any detective
might have guessed at. Solomon was a
great loser like his mother. He lost his
father's new empire. He consequently lost
the revenue. He apparently lost the army
of hired idolators, for it drops out of history.
Possibly it drifted to some more enter-
prising' leader. He lost the goodwill of
his people because, when funds ran low, he
was the first ruler who taxed Israel. He
lost his religion. Judging by the Book of
Ecclesiastes, he also lost his hair and his
good spirits and all the joy of life. It is
assumed that he kept his sons locked up in
the harem lest they should rise against him
in his old bald days. Anyhow, only one
of them is mentioned, and that not till the
weary usurper was dead. Rehoboam looked
like the product of a harem.
Then the bulk of the people said that they
wanted no more of Bathsheba’s offspring to
reign over them. The little agricultural
State broke into two little agricultural frag
ments; and they fought with each other like
two little agricultural cats till not much re-
mained Ultimately what might have been
a great empire was stolen and scattered by
strangers. And its failure was the begin-
ning of the failure of the Semites, which
ended with the fall of Carthage, and it
caused the transfer of the sceptre to Europe
ana made Lenin and Trotsky possible.
It is said on poor authority that the ghost
of Bathsheba de Medici still washes itself
in Jerusalem on Saturday nights and shows
signs of great misery. Her son, and her re-
incarnation Catherine de Medici, and her
sons reincarnation, Henry de Valois, wash
there also m the spirit and look even more
wretched than the old woman.
JAMES EDMOND.
Edward Dyson
When Edward Dyson published his
“Rhymes from the Mines” all Australia
knew that a verseman of distinction had
arisen. They knew more than that; for
although only occasionally in that early
volume Dyson attempted loftier flights of
song, there was here and there a singing
quality in his verse, here and there an indi-
cation of finer and more intense feeling that
stamped him as a poet. That was many
years ago. Since then he has written much
in prosa and verse that was strikingly good,
and always there was the undercurrent of
poetry; but very seldom did his best and
finest gain its full expression. In his most
recent volume, Hello, Soldier! which he
describes as “khaki verse,” Dyson keeps
about his average. The work is almost uni-
oimly good, full of point and sometimes
lull or humor; it. shows the true craftsman
m To per cent, of the lines; but the genuine
poetry is rather hinted at than revealed
After all, war verse is not likely to be
specially poetical. The great struggle, first
and last, has produced very little song that
will live; but the stir and change of four
tremendous years did give great opportuni-
ties for journalistic verse—verse rude and
ready and fashioned to the needs of the
moment. To say that the bulk of Dyson’s
’haki verse” is of this order is to speak
n(^k IS iF raiSe ‘ I f e attem Pted valiant things
with his pen and he has succeeded as well
as any but the very best.
Here is a bit of fancy that would be hard
to beat:
Th e fl itting bullets flow and flock,
They twitter as they pass; *
Th ev re picking at the solid rock,
They re rooting in the grass.
A tiny ballet swiftly throws
Its gossamer of rust,
Brown fairies on their little toes
A-dancing in the dust.
And here, again, is a picture that lives and
moves;
The township woke, and the doors flew wide -
The women trotted their bovs beside '
Across the bridge on a single heel
The soldiers came in a golden glow
With throb of song and chink of steel.
The gallant crow of the piccolo.
Good and brown they were,
And their arms swung bare.
Their fine young faces revived in me
A boyhood’s vision of chivalry.
Or again:
There came the vibrant bugle note
N °ne cowered at the high alarm, '
* s , te ii dy , fleets were still afloat,
And England saw her children arm,
readily, with sober grace
The close-set ranks swung into ’place.
Not high poetry this, perhaps, but good stuff
tWd *if r?ad u a ? d str ? n S appeal. But, in-
deed, it is hard to give any impression of
the book by brief quotation. Verv much of
the spirit that made Australia successful in
the war is to be found there. It will call
ofthe !oMiw: “* m
Dancey. For some reason these are folded
acS'The Sffl, f„ he PaSCS »”« «
across tne middle m a manner that tnkp«
away a good deal from their value The
book itself, owing to the recent paner
shortage, is printed upon a Sv-lmown
paper in violet ink; but the letterpress In
(Continued on page 24.)


a
C.P.C. Chaffcutter, Bentall’s renowned
make, fixed mouth, 7Jin. wide, cuts Jin.
and Jin. Mounted on east-iron column.
£6/7/0
Rapid Root Cutter and Pulper, with ad-
justable knives. Capacity per hour, slicing or
pulping, hand, 30 bushels; Power, 125 bushels.
£9/10/-
Pony Hand Feed Cutter, will cut from $ to
inches. Made of the best materials through-
out. Will cut hay, cornstalks and all kinds
of rough feed. Will cut a bushel of hay in
35sec. £3/17/6
MEN on the Land know good implements when
they see them. That is why Anthony
Horderns’ implements are so popular with
progressive farmers. They are made by makers
of repute, are thoroughly dependable, and are
economical, too. Send for particulars of any=
thing you require. It will be to your advantage.
— r
r' ; —*
ITT 1 *
J ,+ ‘A,ws
\- ■ «■
-
Plantation Standard Feed Cutter is just the machine for the farm where
large capacity is desired but only man-power is available. Made in two
sizes, with 9in. and llin. knives. They cut i, i, -J and 1 inch, with four
knives, and double these lengths with two knives. No. 9 will cut 70 bushels
per hour with one man at each wheel and one to feed ; No. 11, 85 bushels.
Prices: No. 9, £l4/5/6; No. 11, £l6
The Little Buckeye Disc Cultivator (as illustrated) is a highly useful and
convenient cultivator, especially suitable to light, loose or sandy soil. The
two gangs of disc blades are carried on a securely-braced steel frame, and
may be set to throw in or out. They may also be set to straddle row cultiva-
tion, or to cultivate between rows. Price £9/10/-
C.X.B. Chaffcutter (Bentall’s), rising
mouth, 7fin. wide, cuts Jin. and !in.,
42in. wheel £B/17/6
Rapid Root and Vegetable Cutter, will cut about
50 bushels per hour. Has three cutting knives. Simple
and durable £B/15/-
This is a Wiard Disc Harrow, it has a strong
channel-steel frame, and can be depended upon to give
good service. 3ft., without fore truck, £l2/15/-;
sft., with truck, £l6; 6ft.-, with truck, £l7-
This is an Imperial Spring Tooth Low Down Harrow 7 , and a fine harrow it is, too.
The frame is of heavy angle steel, sloping upwards in front to avoid the trash. The tines
are of steel and reversible. The draw-bar may he adjusted up or down., to insure even
working of the tines, or to make the front or rear tines work deep or shallow as desired.
7-tooth Spring Tooth Harrow, with iron handles and runners, weight 1061 b,, £7/7/6
10-tooth ditto, weight 1751 b £B/15/-
17-tooth ditto, in two sections (as illustrated), weight 2461 b £l3/10/-
Q,—
m
- us** ■
The Emperor Rake, as shown, is indispensable on a farm run on up-to-date lilies.
The teeth are flattened and have chisel points that will not dig-, take up least dust,
offer little resistance, and reduce the draft. Fitted with strong wooden wheels,
£ll
ANTH.ONY HORDERNS’,
BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.


IP
W # v
Mk
fl /
-T
ns-'
r®
ca
Three Rolls of Adamax
equal to 6fcwt. of
Galvanised-iron.
Build BETTER
and CHEAPER.
USE
ADAMAX
ROOFING
11
MU
<8
fVi
r'
U 1
a
n
One Roll of Adamax
is equal to 2£cwt. of
Galvanised-iron.
The uses to which it can be applied on farm, station, dairy,
etc., make it the Economical Roofing that has no equal.
As a roofing it resists all damaging effects of the elements —
o o o
costs less to buy, less for freight, less for upkeep —less for
applying than Galvanised-iron —yet will not rust or pinhole.
It makes a splendid flooring for Huts, etc. Roll the ground
well, then spread Adamax Roofing and cement edges with
Adamax Roofing Cement.
Use ADAMAX ROOFING for lining wooden water-
troughs. It keeps them watertight.
The long-fibred felt which forms the basis of Adamax Roofing
is thoroughly impregnated with pure mineral Hydro-carbon —
then treated by a process which makes Adamax Roofing
“The Best that Money can Buy.”
Learn more about it in FREE PAMPHLET, also ask
for F ree Sample.
“LOTTOID” Plaster Sheeting—ldeal for Interior Walls and Roofing
With them you can secure pleasing panel-effects, for the sheets lend themselves to artistic treatment.
Their first cost is their last cost, and there is no further expense for renovation or replacement.
The sheets are not affected by climatic changes. They make comfortable, cool rooms in Summer and warm rooms
in Winter —are fire-retarding—pliable and elastic —will not warp, twist or buckle.
We are agents for Lottoid in N.S.W. and Queensland. Write to Sydney or Brisbane offices for further particulars.
1
J
lr~
J
H
I*os
l *
&
rs
»>>
cT
£C-c-
-[TOUimnumr;
;
sr
2
>
ft
3
s
tm
. - •
KE*2B
William Adams 8 Co. Ltd.,
175 CLARENCE STREET. SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE: 521-3 Collins St.
ADELAIDE: 95 Currie St.
PERTH: 33 King St.
BRISBANE: Cr. Edward 8 Mary Sts.


KITZS
CIDER
For Your
Health’s Sake
You cannot help but get
to love Cider, for combined
with its pleasing, exhil-
arating, drinking qualities
are the highest health
benefits. Health a n d
pleasure are then the dual
privilege of all partakers
of the luxurious, clear ALWAYS
KITZ CIDER.
GOOD,
AT STORES, HOTELS, CLUBS
AND CAFES,
Baby Bottles, Quarts and Pints.
AGENTS-
SYDNEY: Tucker & Co. Ltd., Caldwell’s
Wines Ltd.
BRISBANE: Burns, Philp & Co.
TOWNSVILLE: Burns, Philp & Co.
CAIRNS: Burns, Philp & Co.
GERALDTON: A. 11. Mountain & Co.
ROCKHAMPTON: J. M. Headrick & Co.
ADELAIDE: AV. P. Auld & Sons Ltd.
PERTH: Philp Coyle.
HOBART: Fcvpnson Co.
LAUNCESTON: John McKenzie b Co.
SAUCE
(The New Sauce)
The Best
War Economy.
The“one and only
H.P. sauce gives a
unique and delici-
ous Flavour to
the food.
Ask for H.P. at your
Store.
Hnmmmmm,",
SN
WA
\wr\
v /
V
C-3
&fSs3?j 1 \
i t
en
cro
en
lV"'\
\ n? iii
CO
S'
li.
\,. *'<3
en
"'"'liiiiiiniinl"""
m
lllp u dkt
Hill
Mm
or a AujtNl
SPANISH INFLUENZA.
The best precautionary measure advised by Australia’s leading medical
men is an antiseptic condition of NOSE AND THROAT.
EVERYONE IS RECOMMENDED TO CARRY A BOX OP
NAZETHA PASTILLES
THE VERY BEST NOSE AND THROAT ANTISEPTIC.
By their use the curative fumes are searchingly carried to all the breath-
ing passages.
1/6
OBTAINABLE ONLY FROM ALL CHEMISTS
1/6
A. P. MILLER &. SON, Chemists, Hobart.
[2
■
Brookes
Colfcc essence
Vouir
Like it
Joo! n
i^C
■>
J?esA~
jbrFhmnStrenglh
&
CAPILLARINE
for
Quick
Results.
A splendid growth of Hair can be produced
on the upper lip by the aid of CAPIL-
LARINE. Make up your mind to grow the
Moustache, and start using CAPILLARINE
right away. A preparation of unfailing
merit.
PRICE 10/0 JAR—POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
o
/Mtrt
N\\\
\n\V\\
H
Ml
tttt. > i'.
Of
>»
For Electrical Machinery
the only bearings that will give positive satisfaction are
cr
K r
SELF-ALIGNING
BALL BEARINGS
They save power, are durable, economical and reliable,
and increase the working efficiency of an electrical plant
by many per cent. Always Specify S.K.F.
11
©
Jowitt 8. LIGHT ENGINEERS
| MELBOURNE SYDNEY BRISBANE ~1
Give your patronage to British
Hosiery —made from Austra-
lasian Wool
Quality Stockings and Socks
for Ladies, Children & Men
No other make has so fine a finish—
Jason has a texture like silk, and surprising
comfort to the skin —yet costs less than
many inferior brands.
Insist on Jason Stockings and Socks—which are
ill-wool, and of soft, silky finish. See the
Jason Tab on every pair. Drapers and Outfitters
everywhere. In case of difficulty write to
Jason Underwear Co„ Leicester, Eng.
A a 62 <§)
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Autumn Evening.
Wild winds are shaking the blue wren’s
cover;
The sea has moods like a wearying lover;
The whole wide world is wet with rain,
As the wild-fowl stream to the north again ;
The paths are livid and dank with loam;
Ghostly hands on the panes go drumming;
The light streams out from the heart if
home.
Why do you linger? When are you com-
ing?
The air grows poignant with peewits call-
ing:
“The leaves are falling! The leaves are
falling!”
The twilight scarf of the wind-wan eve
Streams in tatters; her filmy sleeve
In rainy runnels trickles and clings
As she touches the heart with a clammy
finger
That opes the door for uneasy things.
When will you comet Ah, why do you
lingert
N.S.W.
NINA MURDOCH.
Brig o’ Balgownie.
Soft the pale feet of the morning pace toward
the yellow day,
To the lilting in the rushes where the fairy
pipers play;
To the singing of the river garmenting her
maiden loins
With a wondrous water-mantle like a mesh
of tiny coins;
Like a shower of silver music rinkling o’er
the little stones,
Wonderful upon the vision, marvellous with
many tones;
Yet mv fancy follows onward to the glade
around the turn.
Where the Auld Brig o’ Balgownie lightly
steps across the burn.
Voicing with the speech of beauty all the
dignity of Age,
As the glow of golden graving lights the mis-
sal’s mellow page.
Lo! the Auld Brig o’ Balgownie, chanting
there its magic ’rhyme,
Leaps the torrent of the Present from the
shadowed shore of Time;
Till I hear a richer cadence throbbing to a
measured march,
History in crimson trappings proudly rides
across the arch ;
All the banners of Tradition roll their folds
across the mind,
Billowing where the years rush backward
storming like a. mighty wind.
Gracing more the grace of morning tranquil
in the shaded place,
Bides the Auld Brig o’ Balgownie with its
heart upon its face;
Love-child of the master-builder, joyous his
white hand to feel,
Moving ’mid the patient granite at the tap-
ping of the steel;
Standing now like Galatea with her lover at
her knees;
Mingling still a wistful music with the flutes
among the trees;
Till the beating heart within me wakes to
melody and sings.
As the warm hand of Emotion sweetly sweeps
across the strings.
Held by all the bonds of Beauty, softly now
I surely feel
Saffron paths like tiny fingers tugging, tug-
ging at my heel;
Upward from the flashing waters they shall
bear my gipsy feet.
Growing ’neath the throbbing foot-beat to
the tumult of the street;
I must go to where the white winds wait
beside the leagues of sea,
Beckoning to the ruling skyline ; yet I leave
the heart o’ me
Where the Auld Brig o’ Balgownie bides
within a faery glade.
Gleaming like a richer jewel on the City’s
gown of jade.
SCOTLAND.
BOYCE BOWDEN.
The Flower-Gatherer.
I saw one gathering flowers within a glade,
And as he gathered them the fair things
died ;
And some were frail as Hope thaf dreamed
and sighed;
Others like the white bosom of a maid
Flushed with the warmth of Love, as half
afraid
She yields her all to him; some tender-
eyed
As Youth; and some like Joy that un-
denied
His heart against the heart of Sorrow laid.
At length the gatherer passed, and, the day
done,
The gloaming like a quiet mother came
And took the frightened flowers to her
breast.
Those that had ’scaped the gatherer in the
sun—
Quietly then, without a word of blame.
As one who knew the mystery of Rest.
N.S.W.
R. CRAWFORD.
The Fragrance.
Love came to me
When he was young;
No gifts had he
But neatly flung
Two roses. One caught in my hair:
One found my heart, but withered there.
♦ Love came to me
When he was old.
And clad was he
In cloth of gold.
I sought-mv heart and turned the key.
To find it filled with pot-pourri.
N.S.W.
NORA McAULIFFE.


PERDRIAU TYRES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA,
Mean security from roadside tyre worries and induce a sense of well=being
that is the essence of all motoring enjoyment.
Their Sturdiness and Resilience are noticeable features, essential in all Tyres
that must give satisfactory service over our exacting Australian roads.
•
Perdriau success is the direct result of Perdriau Design, Perdriau Material
and Perdriau Workmanship, planned, chosen and maintained always
with the object of producing the perfect Tyre for Australian conditions.
Long experience and the constant aim for the perfection ideal are big factors
in the result that has made Perdriaus the Tyres of Security.
Obtainable through all garages or from the manufacturers—
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO.
270 George Street, Sydney.
Ltd.
Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Murray Street, Perth.
6.
i
*3
The Eclipse Brand
Triple Crush Emasculator.
The use of Denyer's Triple Crush Emasculator eliminates the danger
of haemorrhage or blood poisoning—a contingency which is always present
when inferior instruments are used for the purpose of castration.
DENYER’S TRIPLE CRUSH EMASCULATOR is scientifically designed
from Modern Veterinary investigation. The improved pattern, with its
Three Distinct Crushes and Regulating Screw, ensures greater safety and
greater efficiency with the utmost of speed.
Price 50/'
Postage
9d. Extra.
Send for our Catalogue of Veterinary Instruments and Appliances.
DSNYER BROS,
The Veterinary House of Australia,
281 George Street, SYDNEY.
TT-iaWMncc ttcccc
A
ITf
i
J-L
is
« s
RU
gnnnrmii)iiii|im|r M
inJS
• s
nnmn
3
yA q acon
I?NGUE
and
VEAL
H^«l
A Real Meal
In Every Tin
You feel the need of something more substantial
than sandwiches these dags. Take a tin of
“ Rex ” Camp Pie and see how well it goes.
There’s nothing like this good wholesome
canned meat when it comes to real enjoyment
and satisfaction.
‘REX’ CAMP PIE
comes all ready Cooked and its flavor hits the
right spot with every man. Of course the
womenfolk like it too —especially the fact that
it saves all cooking.
YOUR GROCER SELLS IT
r T 1 s\ (ZmoorQ / Your customers read these an-
L/ct 'to. nouncements. Theuuse “ Rex ”
Goods. Then see "Rex ” goods at their friends'. ARE
YOU SUPPLYING THEM?
J 323
FOGGITT, JONES & CO., LTD.
Packers of “ Rex ” Pure Food Products
Curers of “ Rex r” Hams and Bacon
xzm.
-?■
K££
•••
GOODRICH
Full -size
“BAREFOOT” RUBBER
Black Safety TYRES.
Th is wonderful “BAREFOOT”
Rubber is black —not because it
is colored —but because it came
that way.
Color alone does not make a
“Goodrich” stand the test of ioo-
mile-per-hour races.
The marvellous “BAREFOOT”
Rubber now used in Goodrich
Tyres was evolved by our chemical
experts after years of research,
resulting m the Toughest and Best-
wearing Tread ever produced.
DUVAL CO.
145 Collins St. 13 Castlereagh St., 300 Adelaide St.,
MELBOURNE. SYDNEY. BRISBANE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office,. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 40.—N0. 2050.
THURSDAY, MAY 29, 1919.
Pbxce 6d.
SQUARING ACCOUNTS.
“German resentment has turned on German Jews.”
THE FRENZIED HUN: “I’ll take those Peace terms out of YOU, anyway."


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
—A
Printed and published by William Macleod. of
Musgrave ami McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. Gd. per annum you can have The Bulletin
sent regularly to you, every week for a year, to any
ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
•without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Thh Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for th,e preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. (Jordon
and Ootch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetoivn and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationcnj Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., 441 Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
1).8.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs Neivs Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt .—lgnaee Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Iloung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Ilong Kong.
Ceylon.— W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. — Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Ilowe Islands,
lOot., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise; 802., lid.; Bioz. to 10oz., 3d.;
lOoz. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, joz., lid., and id. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, MAY 29, 1919.
THE SEAMEN’S STRIKE.
Five years ago the imported serge that the
child’s frock is made of cost 4s. 6d. per yard.
The same quality now costs 18s. 6d., to the
stupendous profit of the capitalist at the
other end or the haughty importer or both.
Being maddened by this and a thousand other
imported steals of the sort —commonly de-
scribed as “the high cost of living”—a large
number of seamen have rushed into a strike
with a view to ruining or starving or ren-
dering miserable a lot of people who never
did them any harm, and who are suffering
quite as badly from the high cost of living
as they are. In fact, many of the victims
are suffering a great deal a orse, for the sea-
men are not an ill-paid crowd, though not
so well paid as the coal-miners. That is
to say, supposing the value of everything
produced and of all the irreplaceable minerals
dug out of the ground in a year is considered
as a wage-fund pure and simple, both these
classes get rather more than their share. If
the people who go on strike against their
Australian neighbors because of the high
price of imported goods were a shade more
superstitious they would probably pray for
cheap clothes just as some folk pray for rain.
If they were another shade more super-
stitious they would burn live children as
sacrifices to Chemosii outside Parliament
House, and beseech the god to turn away
his anger and reduce the general cost of
existence. Being what they are, the tend-
ency to give pain to the nearest or most
defenceless person when things go wrong
leads them to offer up the children as a
hunger sacrifice to Bosh instead of Che-
mosh —the Bosii of the Freetrade papers.
This is something akin to the case of that
officer in London who, being worried by
skin disease, shot his best friend. Of course
the intoxication of power must be taken into
account. The seamen, coal-miners, wharf-
laborers and railway men are all more or
less in a position to hold the country to
ransom when they feel that way. The
shipping companies—such as Australia
possesses —certainly can’t pay much ransom,
for the profits of their business, taking them
in the lump and averaging good times and
bad. are not gorsreous. But they can pass
it on to the community, which they will do
with enthusiasm.
One of the most prominent demands is for
u six-hour day in port, accompanied by im-
proved accommodation. The six- instead of
eight-hour day at sea may be demanded
later, but it is difficult, seeing that ships
can’t shut up at night like offices and ware-
houses and send the employees home. A
six-hour ship with all four shifts on board
would be more like a moving picnic-van than
a sea-carrier. Other claims are £4 a week
for one class of seamen and £3 10s. tdt
another, with, of course, board and lodging
added; better compensation for injured sea-
men and the dependants of those killed
(which is especially commendable in such a
dangerous occupation, though rather in-
definite) ; and 3s. per hour overtime. This
last item is loaded. Ships won’t carry four
shifts, but in port they will require four.
So they will employ the old crowd and work
the old hours, paying Os. per man per day
overtime. Considering liow -hard it is to get
rid of 18 hours of leisure per day this is
plainly what is aimed at. When all these
outlays are met, the cost of living will go
up again by a trifle.
* * * *
The demands, of course, don’t apply to
the oversea ships, all foreign-owned. Such
demands never apply to the men whom the
importers make the big profits for. The
proposed increases, necessitated by the figure
at which imported goods are sold, will help
to spoil any chance Australia has of becom-
ing its own shipowner, but then the steady
purpose of the roaring boys who are allowed
to run the Labor movement a great part of
the time is to destroy Australian industry—
to shut up its factories and its mines by
continuous strikes, yet never to strike against
the people who run up the cost of living by
adding 300 per cent, to the bill for goods
made by niggers and sundries. The row
when meat prices went up 60 per cent, in
five years, largely because the wages of
everybody concerned had gone up to balance
the cost of goods brought from abroad and
partly by reason of increased taxation,
moved the fiscal-sinkers of the Labor party
to a torrent of indignation against the local
butchers and farmers, and made them
almost call for their annihilation. The fact
that foreign serge has gone up from 4s. 6d.
to 18s. 6d. per yard doesn’t rouse them either
to anger or to the slightest interest in the
establishment of local industries. It only
moves them to stop carrying the rations of
the kid who finds her serge frock becoming
scarce. With them the fatted agent of
foreign cheap labor is sacred. Nor is there
any finality about the present demands.
Should the price of Japanese goods go up
some more the people concerned are liable to
renew their operations and institute another
effort to make the local population suffer
whatever misery they can bring about.
* * * •
The upheaval is supposed to have been
decided on at a meeting organised at a time
when, by reason of many vessels being hung
up in wayside ports through bad weather, a
small attendance might be expected. The
Bolsheviks or extremists or “narks” attended
in force, knowing that their attendance was
wanted, and held possession. The proposal
that a ballot should be taken was howled
down, for the loud-mouthed minority which
believes in general destruction has no use
for the ballot. Yet so completely have the
main body of unionists been enslaved by the
noisy minority that the refusal of a ballot
apparently counts for nothing, though if it
had been a matter of capitalists shutting
unionists out of the ballot at a general elec-
tion the row would have been past imagining.
If is a point of honor to humbly follow the
decision arrived at by a snatch vote taken
amid a tumult in a hall of no great size.
The result might, of course, have been the
same if a ballot had been taken, but the re-
fusal of it was an outrage on the rights of an
allegedly free and self-governing body of men.
If Labor had a clear idea of its rights, save
such rights as its bosses nermit it to have,
the men who were mainly responsible for
the refusal would be expelled from the union
at the shortest possible notice, but that would
be too much to expect. Laborites have been
expelled from the whole movement for urg-
ing that this country should put up, even by
compulsory service, . a whole-souled fight
against a pair of Hun despots who threat-
ened to reduce us to slavery ; though union-
ism is itself, of necessity, a compulsory ser-
vice movement, and the pacifist who doesn’t
serve in its ranks is regarded as a leper.
But if Labor has ever expelled a member
for being a notorious boodler or a stealer
of other men’s wives, or a greedy land-shark,
or being a party boss w 7 ho couldn’t see that
the common herd had any right to a ballot,
or a “scab” who scoffed at all the financial
and decentralisation planks of the alleged
platform, the episode has been overlooked.
THE GREAT DESTRUCTIVE
INDUSTRIES.
“In Australia it is a most urgent and necessary
thing that there shall be no further crowding into
the cities, but that, on the contrary, the people
shall spread themselves broadly over the continent
and engage, as far as possible, in primary indus-
tries.”—S. M. Herald (17/5/’l9).
It is time the community got a better
understanding of these primary industries
about w r hich they hear so much from
biased and often ignorant and ill-paid
phrase-mongers on the daily press. Any
cheap, glib man who has a smattering of
books and a habit of repetition and a cer-
tain kifid of job on a paper can lend all the
w 7 eight of that organ to tell the people
what little he knows about how to
run the country. And the w 7 ell-thumbed,
dog-eared saying about “primary industries”
is accessible to everybody and is to be found
in many school-books which mostly have it
all wrong, for school-book writers are too
often cheap hacks. As a matter of fact there
are three kinds of industry, not two, taking
the term industry to mean the making of
things that are intended for sale. (This
leaves out the bulk of the population, which
can’t be helped.) The three are primary,
secondary and destructive industries, and for
a period of Australia’s history the last was
the biggest of the trio. They may be defined
as follows: —
Primary industries include agricultural and pas-
toral enterprise of all sorts.
Secondary industries include everything in the
way of manufacture even in its most primitive stages.
The term covers all manner of improvements on raw
material, from the washing of the dirt out of wool
and the grinding of wheat and the salting of the
outer membrane of the late lamented on to the build-
ing of a 50,000-ton steel steamer with locally-
produced materials.
Destructive industries are the digging up of the
national capital in the way of coal and ores and oil
—-things that can’t be replaced. Also, it includes,
especially in a country that is short of forests, the
hacking down of valuable timber unless new trees are
planted. It doesn’t include fishing in a general way,
for the sea supplies new crops of fish, but it some-
times applies to pearl-shelling. This exhausting of
capital is necessary work, but it isn’t “primary” in
the proper sense. Or if it is the Prodigal Son and
the Jubilee Juggins were primary producers of a
sort.
* » * *
Primary industry is boomed by the shoddy
press as a great and desirable and profitable
thing because the profits of destructive in-
dustry are lumped in with it. At one
gorgeous period of Victoria’s history a hand-
ful of gold-finders, working easy surface
deposits on a mere fragment of the State’s
area, found w’ealth equal to £6 per week
for every family in the State, reckoning a
family at five persons. More recently, in
]9ol, the few gold-miners of Westralia went
one better and dug up irreplaceable assets to
the value of £7O for every inhabitant, and
did this mostly out of a bit of ground the
size of one big farm. They produced
nothing in the proper sense of the term,
but they found a lot of buried trea-
sure —not a pirate’s hoard but the hoard of
Providence. And the mining fraternity
is doing this sort of thing in a smaller way
all the time. Because of happenings like
Bendigo and Ivalgoorlie and a thousand
minor happenings the importing and anti-
manufacturing and anti-Australian press
seeks to cast a glamor over the struggle to
drag six or eight bushels of low-priced wheat
per acre out of some barren, rabbit-haunted
field which is too far out to give the settler
a chance. It is described as primary
industry, and when all are lumped together
the thing makes something of a show.
* * * *
The aim of every nation should be to
supply itself with everything it requires
before it lays itself out to be an exporter.
It is an unattainable ideal, but the com-
munity should get as near it as possible. The
achievement saves the cost of sending heavy
raw material to the ends of the earth and
dragging finished goods back, and paying
away half its substance to foreign middle-
men and profiteers w 7 hose exactions are quite
beyond its control. In Australia’s case
the distances are long, and because we
don’t own the ships the shipowner is an
extra and ravenous profiteer. The tem-
perate zone of Australia has far too many
people engaged in primary industries, or
rather in the principal varieties thereof,
and very many of the people engaged make
a wretched living by trying to export surplus
goods. The Governments are now endeavor-
ing to make the dead things appear alive by
pushing returned soldiers into the worst of
the primary business with loans of £5OO or
£7OO or £lOOO each, supplied out of money
which the Governments have themselves-
borrowed. Australia has far too few
secondary industries—the kind that pay
union wages and don’t ask the State for
loans of £5OO or £lOOO per worker. This
is evidenced by the fact that it buys almost
everything except the crudest objects abroad,
and it is the people abroad who have lately
put up their charges 300 per cent, or so, and
made living almost impossible, and have
often failed to deliver the goods at any price.
The country is miserably short of real cities.
Four or five of them to a continent nearly the
size of Europe is more like barbarism than
civilisation. At the same time it is shame-
fully over-citied. When 5,000,000 people
with 3,000,000 square miles to rove over put
nearly one-third of themselves into two
capitals down in one almost imperceptible
corner of their inheritance congestion is
overdone. There is no very great immedi-
ate need in temperate Australia for people
to spread more over the face of the country,
though there is in tropical Australia, where
the cotton industry has hardly even begun.
But the need to spread more towns over
the face of the country is obvious.
BOLSHEVIKS AND SOME STRANGE
IDEALS.
The most ueadable article in the Round
Table for March deals with “Bolshevik
Aims and Bolshevik Ideals.” The Bol-
sheviks really started with high ideals,
as did that crazed crowd whom William
Lane, the apostle, led from Australia
to Paraguay in 1893, but the ideals went
wrong. New Australia in Paraguay was
the great development, made under most
brilliant conditions, of the policy which some
professed Labor leaders are preaching to-day
as if it was something new 7 —the elimination
of the landlord, and the capitalist, and the
employer even if he is a very small, poor
employer, and even the replacement of State
enterprise by enterprise controlled by the
general tumult of the employees. It failed
miserably and the experimenters w r ent homo
to the old order of things. If the idea had
been practised generally in Australia, instead
of in a small way in a far land, the hungry,
disgruntled mob would have had no home to
flee to and would have had to battle through
with blood and tears as the Bolsheviks in
Russia are doing. The Russian people’s
failure isn’t finished yet, simply because they
haven’t been all killed, or all starved to
death, or been conquered by an outside force.
It is the difference between a prodigal son
with a charitable old man to return to and
a prodigal without.
* * * *
It is because of the awful failure in Para-
guay that a great many people shy away
from the One Big Union party which wants
to try the same device in all Australia with
none" of the Paraguayan experiment’s splen-
did advantages. It is even suggested that
the new men who preach the old men's
gospel should buy up or create a few indus-
tries and run them successfully as a sample
before they ask the community to go the
whole hog—the one whose dinner the youth
in the New Testament was reduced to steal-
ing.
The Russian revolutionists had grievances
enough. Among them were a loony
sovereign; a nobility of great hereditary
landowners like those who burden the British
Isles but more powerful and arrogant; a
grievous lack of education; a corrupt police
force ; a Parliament that was only a shadow ;
and an expensive war. Also they had a
bitter climate and bad liquor. The war
had been forced on them, and Russia didn’t
suffer through it the same ravages as France
and Belgium and Serbia, but the people were
too unlettered to know. When the Bol-
sheviks made a peace that was more disas-
trous than war there was a brief period of
something that looked like the ghost of pros-
perity. The paper money was abundant
and it was good for a week or two till it
became so abundant that it wasn’t good—in
fact, it wasn’t worth its weight in bread.
And it seemed that the taking over of indus-
tries by disorderly committees of workers,
who spent most of their time on stop-work
meetings, though it reduced the output in
many cases to a quarter or less of the usual
average, didn’t create famine. That was so
long as the stocks on hand lasted. So the
humblest Bolshevik —say the scavenger in
Petrograd—whose wages were raised to £l2
per week in paper got something like the
value of £l2—for a week or two. When
the coin disappeared, and the old stocks of
provender and clobber were exhausted, and
the new season’s goods didn’t come in at
anything like the old rate because of
stop-work meetings and incapacity, and £l2
of paper became worth something very
humble in real cash, the twelve-pounder
found that he was a poorer scavenger than
ever. It was necessary either to admit that
Paradise was a failure or to preach that the
capitalists were still plundering the people
and had to be suppressed. So the level at
which a man became a ravenous capitalist
was lowered by common consent as if it
was an income-tax exemption. At the be-
ginning the man with £5OOO worth of goods
might, if he chose, be accepted as one of the
crowd which chased and executed the man
with £500,000. But a time came when, the
supply of £500.000 men being quite used up,
the person with £2OO worth of goods might
be chased and executed himself.
* * * *
Then began the trouble between city and
country. The little cocky farmer, working
single-handed, couldn’t hold stop-work meet-
ings of himself, and in most cases he still
produced grain. He was suspected of
hoarding it and not yearning after paper
money. Anyhow, it was difficult to get
rid of it, as the railways had collapsed
through too many stop-work meetings. The
cocky was partially disqualified as a voter
from the first so as to keep the balance of
power in the cities —that is to say, he had
one member for 125,000 voters, while the
townspeople had one for 25,000 voters. All
employers, ana all who weren’t revolutionary
soldiers or sailors, or manual or domestic
workers were disqualified, which shut out
doctors, writers and the intellectual class
generally. The voter’s age was fixed at 18
(as proposed by Bolsheviks in Australia).
This voting arrangement was necessary to
keep the Lenin-Trotsky Government afloat,
for its power lay in the stop-workers of the
cities, but it led to divergence of opinion be-
tween town and country. By way of a
diversion, Poverty Committees were formed
of the cockies who hadn’t troubled to raise
a harvest, or had spent the proceeds, or had
had bad luck. Their job was to make war
on and collect contributions from the cockies
who had raised a harvest and were supposed
to have food on hand. The presumption
was that the poorer cockies would support
the Government and the richer cockies woe
be disqualified or dead. Doubts are enter-
tained about the next harvest; still the
schools teach the rising generation to have
hope for a bright future. Schools are far
more numerous than under the old regime,
but they teach little save Bolshevik prin-
ciples, just as many Mohammedan schools
teach only the Koran. The conscript army,
composed partly of Chinese, is said to be
faithful, and the hangman—-or rather the
hang-multitude—works overtime, for capital
punishment and torture have both been re-
stored.
* * # *
New Australia in Paraguay began differ-
ently and went home to mother before the
logical end came. The Queenslanders who
founded it had no hereditary nobility or
disastrous war to complain of. They had
still land available for settlement. Also they
possessed a real Parliament with a fairly,
though not excessively, liberal franchise.
But a polished imported crank or prophet
or impostor, one Lane from England,
preached a general exodus of the working
classes so that the rich might wash the
dishes themselves. He got followers. The
Paraguayan republic, which had wanted men
ever since it lost nine-tenths of its male adults
in the great war, gave a grant of rich land,
with rights of local self-government and
exemption from taxes and military service.
So the settlers started without landlords or
capitalists or employers or peers or any sort
of tyrants. They were carefully selected
folk, so they left the criminal element behind
them. They left their share of the public
debt behind them. And they all had money.
* * * *
The Rue Australian starved in the midst
of plenty. They enjoyed Liberty and
nothing else. When, recently, the Bol-
shevik day-wage men in State employ at
Cockatoo (Sydney) carried their protest
against the capitalist (themselves) so far
that thev only drove 73 rivets per day, the
nigger-driver (appointed bv the Government
made by themselves) bade them leave the job
and go to Hades or somewhere, or else
accept piece-work. Driven b’ - the fear of
hunger they accepted, and earned almost
double wages without any extraordinary
exertion. Consequently Freedom shrieked


a second time. The Rue Australians got
down, metaphorically, to driving one rivet
a week in their pursuit of Liberty, there
being no nigger-driver. The elected gang-
foremen were deposed for infringing the
rights of free men almost every time they
gave an order, and as it took a large public
meeting to depose one of them, it was a
long time between orders. The settlers sold
their cattle, and still grew poorer. They sank
so low that some English agricultural serfs
who came out to Paradise were shocked at the
tattered state of the angels who wouldn’t
work —or at least wouldn’t work except on
0.8. U. lines—lest they should again fall
under the yoke. They even cadged further
aid from the republic (population mostly
brown) which had already done so much for
them. And in the end they mostly got back
to Australia somehow.
Two tilings saved New Australia from tue
chance of becoming a slaughter-house like
Bolshevik Russia, but on a smaller scale.
First, the adventurers had a home to go to.
Secondly, the bayonets of the republic’s army
were available to prevent too violent dis-
agreement. The same experiment, spread
all over Australia, would have neither of
these advantages. It might not have even
so bright a leader as William Lane, who
was an upside down sort of genius and might
have been Lenin with larger opportunities.
THE VETERAN PASSES.
The Defence question, in most of its aspects,
has always been an embarrassment to the
politicians. It is more so now than ever.
President Wilson’s heavenly view regard-
ing a Millennial future in which there shall
be no more wars has strengthened the case
of the pacifists. There is a natural ten-
dency, now that the world is lowering its
guard, after nearly five years’ bloodshed,
towards laxness in Defence matters. And
yet Australia never had more need to be on
the alert. Its alien restriction policy is
going to keep the colored brother in a
chronic state of more or less suppressed fury ;
and if the tariff question is handled as it
should be the volume of foreign annoyance
will be considerably augmented. The poli-
ticians are striving furiously to face both
ways. To the local Wilsonians they explain
that the Army is a bagatelle; to Nationalists
that it is, and is going to be in the future,
an effective force. Neither statement is
correct.
* * * *
The Reserve, for (say) five years, at the
most, may be accepted as a serviceable arm.
It will consist of genuine soldiers expert in
every form of warfare known up to the end
of 1918. But one of the features, possibly
the feature, of the next war will be bombing
-—bombing, not only in the line and back
areas, but hundreds of miles to the rear.
The A.F.C. Reserve, on a four days’ training
basis, will have no hope of keeping abreast
of the times in aerial warfare. The 18-pr.
gun may become out of date any day now.
A new split trail has been devised, and a
recoil system, on the lines of that in use in
the French .75 gun, is being introduced. As
with the F.C. and Artillery, so with the
other arms. They must quickly become out-
moded. The Bulletin is entirely in favor
of the Reserve, ,per se; but it cannot remain
the first line of defence as it is at present.
To get the maximum of efficiency its per-
sonnel should be freely amalgamated with
the C.M.F. But that is exactly what the
Government and politicians generally don’t
intend to bring to pass unless they are forced
into it. The natural aim of the politician
is to soothe all hands and so keep his job.
The Army Reserve scheme is, amongst other
things, an expression of that tendency. One
of the ideas at the back of it is to offer a
sop to the expeditionary Cerberus who
shows an awkward anxiety to apply the
knowledge of the art of war which he has
gained at such tremendous expense, abroad,
to the service of his country. No patriot
member of the A.I.F. is able to claim that he
is altogether denied the right to serve. The
authorities can, and do, point proudly to
the Reserve, saying: “Your duty lies there.”
It is not enough for a keen young soldier.
This valuable type of citizen w r ants to keep
up to date in the profession which the war
has enabled him to add to whatever calling
he had before it, by work with the C.M.F. as
well. But that is exactly what he is de-
barred from doing, unless he was a trainee
before he joined the A.I.F.
* * * *
The absurdity of the system is most clearly
seen in the case of A.I.F. officers and n.c.o.’s.
Ninety per cent, of them have risen, by dis-
tinguished conduct in the field —that is to
say, by brains and character—and in the
face of keen competition. They are the pick
of an army which was the admiration of the
world. At the present time they are being
hurried into civil life by the hundred. There
is room for them neither in the permanent
forces nor in the Militia. It means that such
born leaders and soldiers as Colonel Murray,
Y.C., are blanketed, while men of the Per-
manent army who saw no service in this, or
any, war are kept on. And it further means
that the training of the Commonwealth’s
future first-line army is to be in the hands,
mostly, of officers who not only lack the
requisite knowledge but who, rightly or
wrongly, will be regarded by the boys under
them as “cold-footers.” It is true that a
large number of Militia officers went to the
war; but a large number, also, stayed at
home. Nominally they were “indispensable,”
or something similar; in practice most people
know that the inquiries instituted by the
State Commandants into their cases, half-
way through the war, were farcical. The
war wdiich is in its death-throes w r as almost
as easy to stay away from, with official
honor, as it was to get to. For every adult
trainee below commissioned rank who en-
listed at least one chose the safer way. This
means—unless the existing system goes
that the bulk of C.M.F. officers, a year or
so hence, will consist of young men who
heard the call and failed to respond to it
with the inevitable effect that, however sound
their reasons were, they must lose in author-
ity as well as in knowledge of the job. The
authorities in Melbourne recognise the
anomaly of the position—none better. They
know that the Commonwealth’s citizen army
would be immensely strengthened and
vitalised by the incorporation in it of all
those recommended officers and n.c.o.’s of
the Reserve who were willing to join. But
the change would necessitate an amendment
of the Defence Act, which at present lays
down that promotion in the C.M.F. can only
be got from the ranks of trainees. The Gov-
ernfnent doesn’t intend to amend the Act—-
if it can possibly help it. There is too
much sectional hostility involved. The Anti-
Conscription crowd would call it Militarism.
Another lot would see in it “a betrayal of
the cause of democracy.” The very con-
siderable portion of the C.M.F. which failed
to enlist would strongly object, as w’ould
their relatives, to any arrangement which
gave military preference to ex-members of
the A.I.F. All these sections represent
votes which neither political party is pre-
pared to lightly alienate. There are no
votes worth talking about in doing the right
and reasonable tiling—most of the electors
being too war-weary to interest themselves
in the question except insofar as it immedi-
ately affects them or theirs. Yet the basis
of an efficient army is skilled training, and,
as aforesaid, the cream of Australia’s best
for this purpose is being hastily pushed into
private life. Not till fresh trouble comes,
as it inevitably must, will the nation«appre-
ciute the insanity of the wastage which is
going on now.
PLAIN ENGLISH,
The Significance of Shangtung.
“The Pariah’’ : The question of Kiaochau
and Shangtung has been settled in favor of
the Japanese—that is, the Japanese inherit
all those rights and privileges that the Ger-
mans held in this rich province prior to the
outbreak of the war. That these were im-
portant is shown by the fact that the Big
Four only hurried the matter to a close after
twice adjourning. The Japanese made no
secret of their intention to keep their grip
whatever the Conference said, and the
Chinese said that they would be utterly sold
and disgraced if Japan were allowed to
usurp German concessions. To get at the
bottom of the question it is necessary to go
back to the time when there was a keen
interest in the exploitation of China, a time
when Peking was full of concession-seekers
of every nation, tricking, bribing and using
in every way the big money that wns at
their backs. Then, to make sure of a point
of support for her trade, Russia took over
Port Arthur, and Britain pursued the same
course at Wei-hai-wei. The French were too
busy in the south of China to trouble about
these matters in the north. Only one big
European nation was not represented in
China —Germany. Though late she was de-
termined not to be the least. In 1896 the
Chancellor made a vague statement that
might have meant much or nothing, and the
world was surprised when in the following-
year the Huns made the murder of two
missionaries an excuse for a daring grab.
At first it was said that Kiaochau was merely
a rallying point for German trade, but the
boastful Hun very soon made it appear that
he was playing- a deeper game. In August
1898, Lieut.-Col. Riieiniiold Wagner pre-
pared a memorandum on the harbors and
defences of China. Said he
No portion of the Chinese Empire can be so
easily acquired by an enemy as the Shangtung-
Peninsula. With Kiaochau undefended, nothing
would be easier than to land an army there and
take up a defensive position across the peninsula
....and thus sever it from the interior.... If Kiao-
chau were well fortified not only is the most exposed
position of the Shangtung Peninsula protected, but an
enemy could be easily expelled.... Kiaochau is in
such a position as to render Port Arthur and Wei-
hai-wei of no military value.
The American and British view was summed
up by two writers in the same words. “Ger-
many may therefore be said to have acquired
in Kiaochau the key to Northern China,” and
Krausse says that whoever holds Kiaochau
“possesses a controlling voice in all questions
affecting the fate of Peking.” It is easy to
see why China does not desire to have any
power holding such a vital strongpost at
her most vulnerable point. To the average
man, however, there is some mystification in
the antagonism shown towards Japan by
China. The reasons I set out fully in The
Bulletin of November 13, 1913 (in which,
by the way, I pointed the coming fate of
the Manchurian provinces). For 16 cen-
turies the literature of the countries shows
that a close friendship existed, only being-
broken when the Japanese began to western-
ise themselves. Then followed the Chino-
Jap war, with its conseouent Shiminoseki
treaty, then the very unpleasant Korean
business (a sort of lluns-in-Belgium affair
with special Oriental trimmings), some nasty
unpleasantnesses at the time of the Boxer out-
break, and several minor troubles that made
the Chinese people hate the Japanese. China,
just beginning to settle down after the revo-
lution that started back in 1911, fears to
have her strong neighbor firmly fixed near
her heart, and the Japanese are afraid of
what will happen to them if the Chinese
giant becomes strong, and is not disposed
to be friendly. There is no doubt that Japan
has tried her best to gain the good graces
cf China, but she has gone about it in a
manner that carries no recommendation.
One of the clauses of the treaty of 1896 pro-
vided for a mutual educational scheme. Stu-
dents from Japan were to spend some years
in China studying the language and philo-
sophy, while the same number of Chinese
students were to be in Japan. This “To a
Do-bun Kwai” was beautiful in theory, but
in the event all the advantages went to
Japan. She decided where the students of
each country should be trained, with the
result that her men went into all the pro-
vinces of China while the Chinese students
were all huddled in one place, and jealous
eyes saw that they did not learn too much
that was of vital importance. The result is
charminglv told by the Japanese publicist,
Dr. Kan-Ichi Asak'awa : “Japanese stu-
dents compiled monumental works on the
politics, geography and economics of China,
which, in their thoroughness and accuracy
are unrivalled in any language.” At the
moment of writing the latest cables say that
China threatens a boycott of Japanese goods.
This will be the third boycott undertaken by
the Chinese. In 1906 they tuned up the
Americans, and had Australia been awake
we should have collared a lot of trade. In
1908 they declared against goods from Nip-
pon, and the loss of trade to Japan was set
down by an official at over five million
pounds in a few months. The sight of
astute Chinese merchants piling up thou-
sands of pounds worth of Jap goods on the
bund at Canton and then having them burnt
was something to remember. Her effort on
this occasion will be none the less effective,
because China is now more united than she
was then. That is the position. What it
will be four years hence no one can say, but
if President Wilson lives long enough he
will see new wisdom coming out of the East.
A Cry from Abroad.
No. 1008 Private P. It. Lynch wrote to this
paper, from London, last mail: —
A soldier attempting to “bopst” his native coun-
try, Australia, comes a “crash” when newspapers,
having a great circulation throughout Great Britain
and Ireland, contain news items of which the cut-
tings enclosed are samples. The question arises,
Are the statements correct, or are they portions
of the propaganda of Bolshevism?
The statements were that profiteering
existed in Perth, and land-profiteering in
N. S. Wales, the respective authorities being
John Bull and London Daily Mail. The
Daily Mail quoted Holman as saying:—
It should be realised in England that, owing to
the vast land monopoly, Australia is unable to
place her own soldiers favorably, and that conse-
quently great discontent already exists.
That is so. So far as N. S. Wales is con-
cerned there is not a tenth of the land avail-
able which is necessary to accommodate the
A.1.F., let alone casual immigrants. A
reason, this, why Holman stated the other
day that the only immigrants he had any
use for were domestic servants. As regards
profiteering proper—meaning in goods and
chattels—it is rampant everywhere from
Perth to Cairns. Australia, in .point of
fact, is passing through a phase which has
been chronic in England, off and on, for
generations. With more land available per
head of the population than any white
country on earth it is suffering from land-
hunger. One of the most productive of
countries, it is paying through the nose for
almost every necessitv of life. The position,
in many parts of the Commonwealth, re-
sembles that of England in the forties of
last century. The Chartists agitated, nomi-
nally, for things like manhood suffrage and
payment of members. What they really
looked for from the Reform Bill was beer
at Id. per quart, as in the brave days of
old, and meat at fd. a pound. Labor, in
Australia, is chasing many ideals; but the
master one is, as always, everywhere, cheap
food and drink. A Sydney dinner-ale
which, shortly before the war, was 6d., is
now Is. in many hotels; fillet of steak, which
used to be Is a pound, or under, is now
Is. 6d. a pound, or over. Profiteering in
its real sense—that defined by the Welsh
Commissioners as “patent gambling in the
necessities of life” —has been checked in
England, even if it hasn’t been scotched.
Here it flourishes unhampered Never have
the retail traders done so well. To fly the
Jolly Roger over their shop-fronts would
perhaps look offensively flash; biff they get
there just the same. Practically every
article of food and clothing is from 75 to
150 per cent, dearer than it was five years
ago. People who would not have believed,
a few years back, that they cojuld cut things
any finer have found themselves accomplish-
ing marvels in the way of self-denial. In
short, Australia, the bountiful, which has
known no war, is everywhere in much the
same situation in regard to household sup-
plies as the United Kingdom was in after
two years of war. The present disa-
bilities which the Commonwealth is suffer-
ing from, owing, at least in part, to its
land-and-goods-profiteers, are restricted im-
migration and bloated cities. Unless the
situation improves the factors at the back
of those disabilities may breed an upheaval
in which the most unenviable man in the
community will be a profiteer.
«.
Water Power.
A scheme is in the air, and also occasionally
in the daily papers, for damming the Clar-
ence River, in northern N.S.W. It is reck-
oned that the Gorge is such a favorable spot
that something 2ft times the size of Burrin-
juck can be produced at half the cost. The
idea isn’t so much to irrigate land and create
another settlement like Yanco, where the
State makes a big loss every year by per-
suading people to grow foodstuffs for the
One Big City that is too far away to allow
of great success, but rather to furnish
power. The possible supply of power is
almost unlimited. It can be used to work
railways with the coal bill eliminated—in
other words, to work them at much less than
present cost. At the same time, electricity
makes more difficult grades workable, and
thus payable lines can be built in mountain
regions where they wouldn’t pay if they had
to be flattened out to suit the locomotive
which carries its power along with it
like ballast. There is a vast reserve of
energy in the cables, which can be switched
on when the train starts to climb and
switched off again when the level is reached.
Therefore the idea opens a great prospect for
railways within the profitable carrying radius
of electric power which is at present sup-
posed to be about 200 or 250 miles from the
centre of supply, and if the State allows
lines to be built connecting the northern
tableland with any other ports than Sydney
an opportunity seems to be in sight. It is
also alleged that, with electric power on. the
spot, some of the local mines could be worked
at about half the present cost, for costs, when
fuel has to be fetched long distances, are
heavy. The supply of cheap force—far
cheaper than Sydney possesses and much
cheaper still than that of Melbourne—for
manufacturing purposes is also in the pro-
gramme, but the importing interest and its
friends of the Freetrade press will probably
squash manufactures and tell people to “go
on the land” and grow wheat. Anyhow, it
is contrary to the congestion policy to have
any manufactures in N.S.W. except in
Sydney. Also towns might be lighted at
very small expense if there are enough indus-
tries to make towns that are worth lighting.
It is reckoned that power and illumination
could be sold as far afield as Brisbane. The
idea isn’t new or experimental. Almost
everything in the north of England is now
run by electric force supplied from central
stations, though as the electricity is gen-
erated from coal it isn’t the inexpensive kind
that can be derived from water. And the
great elqptric-power business which is based
on its abundance of water is becoming one
of Tasmania’s greatest asets. The outstand-
ing feature of industry that relies on water
instead of coal is that it isn’t an eating-up
of the nation’s capital or a process of living
for the moment on assets that can never be
replaced. The fluid is harnessed in passing.
It is passing in any case for its own amuse-
ment, and it is made to work as it goes along.
After it has done its work il is available for
drinking, washing, irrigation, scenery or
navigation, just as it was before. Still, even
if the New England scheme is all that it is
cracked up to be or more, it isn’t likely to
be encouraged in any whole-hearted way.
Sydney is a coal-power city situated in the
centre of Australia’s greatest coalfield, anv
place with cheaper force at command may
expect to receive just enough encouragement
to make it a pale shadow of Sydney—not a
rival of Sydney. Its only hope is to secede
from the Ma capital as Brisbane and Mel-
bourne did. It was its possibilities in the way
of cheap water-power and prosperity and self-
assertion that were the ruin of the proposed
Federal capital at Dalgety. The old jealous,
grumpy push of importers’ tame politicians
never rested till they got, in its place, the
wonderful Metropolis in Two Pieces at Can-
berra, where coal, iron, water-power or other
advantages are not. Unfortunately this
isn't a very great time for big new enter-
prises. There will be unions to be con-
sulted at interminable length as in the ship-
building business, for when anything big and
fresh is proposed the old rules somehow
don’t apply, and protocols, negotiations,
treaties, ambuscades, conferences and tactical
operations are certain to be numerous.
There will be a special court to adjust dif-
ferences,. and a royal commission to search
for possible deep conspiracies on the part of
the billionaires who lurk behind every bush.
The question whether power should be sup-
plied for new industries unless they are all
State-owned will be argued at length. Th<>
day-work v. piecework question will be fought
out again. The necessary plant will be
imported at the foreign profiteer’s price.
The money will be borrowed at no end of a
price. Perhaps it would be good business
for the North to separate first and have a
little Government of its own to run the show
on the spot. The present affair is nearly
400 miles from the spot, and can only make
spasmodic visits by special train and blow
off speeches,
A Citizen as Well as a Soldier.
The salutary principle was established, last
week, in Sydney that soldiers in uniform
retain their civil rights. In the case of
Robert Kennedy, the G.M.P. who has just
been given a well-earned six months, the
military authorities fought desperately
for the privilege of walloping' the expedi-
tionary. That, in plain language, was the
issue involved. The original contention was
not that Kennedy was innocent of assault-
ing the invalid Anzac Williams, but that
he had a right to do so. Or, anyhow, that
Williams, being a soldier, had no civil re-
dress in the matter. The Crown, or the
Defence Department, or Victoria Barracks,
or whoever was the instigating party, went
to remarkable lengths to get the desired deci-
sion on this point. Major Bowie Wilson
admitted on oath that he, as O.C. A.I.F
troops for the metropolitan district, warned
Williams that if he proceeded against
Kennedy in the civil courts he would have
the resources of the Defence Department
against him, or words to that effect.
Williams’s version was that he had been
threatened that the case would be taken, if
necessary, to the Privy Council. The Judge,
in passing sentence, remarked that “to fight
it out as he [Kennedy], had done by false
evidence” only made the crime worse. The
defending counsel asked Williams if he had
not himself been convicted before a court-
martial. Being a lawyer, he knew well that
if it had been so it was irrelevant. It is
expressly provided, by Statute, that the Civil
Courts shall take no cognisance of court-
martial proceedings. An accused person con-
victed before a court-martial is still liable to
be tried by the civil courts; and an acquittal
in that low-comedy jurisdiction is equally
unrecogmsed by them. This unusual vigor
may, of course, have been in the ordinary
way of business; but in all the circum-
stances, it looks as if at least some of it was
inspired by the military authorities. It is
the more likely since the decision deprives
them, in one act, of a number of powers
which they have been using, and in many
cases abusing, ever since the War Precau-
tions Act came into force. One logical and
highly desirable outcome of it should be the
abolition of triql by court-martial for all
but members of the Permanent Forces.
Our Reptile Contemporary.
Dear Bulletin, —A matter that is calcu-
lated to fill every patriotic Australian
with rage is these Canadian statistics.
Our contemporary is supposed to have
8,000,000 people to Australia’s 5,000.0‘>(>
Yet its biggest city isn’t much more than
half the size of Sydney, nor its second-
biggest much more than half as large as
Melbourne. It has a Federal capital like
Australia, but its Canberra is situated on a
big river and had 87,000 people when last
heard of, while Canberra and 000 square
miles of territory have 2422. Canada had
a Government note issue long before Aus-
tralia did, and it federated 33 years before
Australia did. But, above all, and the chief
cause of its activities, it began to have an


T h s Farmers’& Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of A us jK!i a
The Workmen’s Compensation Act imposes heavy liabilities on Farmers and
Graziers.
The Farmers’ and Settlers’ Cooperative Insurance Co. of Australia Limited
will accept their liability for a small premium.
it is to the best interests of the Man on the Land to support this cooperative
company.
Write immediately for particulars.
Head Offices 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. BRANCHES in VICTORIA AND SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
avowedly Protectionist tariff as far back as
1879, while Australia, in 1919, is still think-
ing over the matter. Our reptile contem-
porary’s tariff grew and grew as years went
on till it became a Sheol of a tariff. The
Dominion resolved that the “primary indus-
tries”—which N.S.W., a year or two ago,
discovered to mean getting 12s. worth of
wheat as the result of a year’s toil on an
acre of land —were not so very glorious after
all, so it resolved to be a manufacturing
country as well. It believed in making
shins, locomotives, engines of all sorts, agri-
cultural implements, clothes and sundries.
It even wanted to have manufactured goods
to export. When the war came it was able
to seize the great opportunity while low-
tariff Australia was so paralysed that it
couldn’t even keep the mice out of its unsold
wheat. In 1913 the exports of the two
countries were about equal (£78,000,000),
with the difference that about £15,000,0
of Canada’s exports were manufactured
goods, while Australia was the drudge that
furnished low-priced raw materials. In
1917, when Canada was even selling vast
quantities of ammunition to the Allies, its
exports were £315,000,000; Australia’s were
£97,000,000. In Canada’s little lot was
included £137,000,000 worth of manufac-
tured goods. Australia’s proportion was
more like a million. In 1918, when the
demand for war material was fallinsr on:,
Canada sold only £255,000,000 worth of
goods abroad, of which £113.000,000 were
the manufactured sort. Australia sold
£75,000,000 worth of raw materials. The
Shoddy press is never weary of stating
that trade is a great thing, and it is
when it consists largely of selling high-
priced finished stuff to somebody or other.
When it consists in buying high-priced
finished goods and selling wheaj: in return
at a rate which gives the toiler about £2 a
week net for the cultivation single-handed
of 100 acres, it isn’t quite the same thing.
The difference shows, for one thing, in the
amount of money the peoDle have in their
banks. The deposits in Australian banks,
apart from savings banks, at the end of the
war were about £240,000,000,. largely Gov-
ernment loan money. Those of Canada
were £530,000,000. They piled up wonder-
fully during the days when the Dominion
was rising to the occasion and selling expen-
sive munitions to the Allies. Australia’s
really notable products in the war-time were
the big strike of 1917: the Perth Labor Con-
ference ; the shipbuilding programme which
hasn’t finished a single ship; and the inven-
tion of new loan works to keep the people
employed. Australia has never acquired
the manufacturing instinct. No country
can which tries to be that weird anomaly,
a high-wage, short-hour land living on cheap
labor goods, also a white man’s land fed
largely with nigger produce. Our pros-
perous rival goes on the safe and simple rule
»f doing nothing that the Argus and Herald
and Telegraph say it should. If these
foolish, unpatriotic rags said anything more
't probably wouldn’t do that either —Yours,
etc., Henry Horsecollar.
“0.K.”: I propose an inquiry into the
cause of the persistent rise in the cost of
smoked fish, caught in Australasian waters,
cured by Australasian smokers, and sold,
wholesale and retail, by swarthy aliens, as a
rule. The price of M.L. smoked cod in Mel-
bourne shops last week was Is. Bd. a lb., and
the price of Australian smoked fish —Murray
cod, etc. —had risen in sympathy. When
the population of Australia was 75 per cent,
of the present figures the cost of cod never
exceeded a shilling. Lack of shipping facili-
ties was pleaded in the first place for each
rise in the price of sea-food from Maoriland ;
but. in the light of the present day, it seems
that the public is beset by a conspiracy of
profiteering. We carelessly paid more, and
now the fish-traders —“ring” men and com-
bined retailers—are charging us more still.
Meat-prices are declared to be governed by
the supply of live-stock due to scarcity (or
profusionV of pasturage. But feed for fish
is ever abundant, and the produce of the
mighty deep could be doubled next week if
the policy of the dealers were not restrictive.
It seems to me that the need for placing
thousands of returned soldiers on the land is
not greater than the need for embarking
hundreds on the sea in fishing-smacks.
The Allies ought to establish a department
for the inculcation of a sense of humor into
German mentality. It could only be
done by patient selection of Hun boasts,
brags, threats, announcements and Kaiserian
utterances during the war period, to be
issued in pamphlet form and scattered broad-
cast throughout the land of the unchastened
animal. The pamphlet would need to con-
trast all the early boasts with the later
whines and quote the latest German official
apologies re the sinking of the Lusitania in
the light of the fact that a Hun medal was
struck and a Hun holiday provided for school
kiddies, in celebration of the horror; it
should call attention to the dates of the
“public rejoicings” ordered by the Kaiser,
and set out the famous Hymn of Hate. It
would be a notable production.
♦
“Broker” : The call for Australian wines in
England at the present time is unprece-
dented. For three months past Burgoyne
Ltd., a firm that controls most of the busi-
ness. has monotonously continued to inform
the trade that “the first post-war shipment
has now left Australia, and prospects of fur-
ther shipping facilities are favorable. Mean-
time we have no alternative but to ration
stocks.” One shipment only reached Eng-
land in 191 S (in January), and throughout
the year, with a growing demand, stocks
were never greater than one-fourth of nor-
mal. The average imports of three years
prior to the war period exceeded 750,000
gallons per annum, and figures for 1916-1918
are informing:—
1916. 1917. 1918.
Gallons. Gallons. Gallons.
Imports .. .. 503,445 289,51 S 176,036
Home consumption (cleared
from bond) .. .. 554,908 343,396 248,326'
Such figures, of course, indicate 1 one thing
only; the distribution of previously im-
ported holdings; and to-dav practically no
stocks of any kind are held. So far as a
recurrence of normal trading in England
goes, the end of the war was timely. Another
three months of the slaughter in Europe
would have closed the doors on an industry
which has taken 50 years to develop. Only
two small shipments have left Australia
since the armistice, and these will not be
available for British consumption until the
usual period of “rest” has elapsed. Mean-
while the British Empire Producers’ Associ-
RESURRECTION.
“The graves stood tenantless, and the sheeted dead
Did squeak and gibber in the Melbourne streets.”
—“Hamlet” (revised), Act I., Scene 1.
ation is urging the Chancellor to grant pre-
ference on all British-Empire-grown wines,
of which European experts, including M.
Henri Corbiere, a Bachelor of Agricultural
Science recently in Sydney with the French
Mission, agree that Australian wines are
inimitable. The smouldering threat of Pro-
hibition which a few months ago seriously
menaced vignerons, has taken a different out-
look by the result of the rbcent vote _in
Maoriland, and with moderate legislative
control they are capable of supplying almost
any market. England, though granting pre-
ference to Portugal by Article 6 of the
Anglo-Portuguese commercial treaty of 1916
on the question of importation of port and
Madeira, insistently calls for our wines of
the hock, chablis and claret type, which only
the shipping deadlock makes it impossible to
supply.
♦
That section of Melbourne’s police which
does its best to squeleh the sly-grog traffic
the other day flapped over another obstacle,
viz., that under the existing licensing law
anyone who isn’t licensed to sell tanglefoot
can trade as much as he likes, provided he
isn’t actually caught doing so and provided
it isn’t drunk on the premises. The police,
it seems, noticed a perennial stream of
slightly sober persons perambulating between
a Lonsdale-street lolly-shop and the lawns
down the middle of the street, where the
interiors of bottles were steadily con-
sumed. The Shop was searched and the
J. Hops found 111 quarts of ale planted.
The case looked lucid enough, but the Bench
upheld a smart lawyer who claimed there
was no case, inasmuch as there is no legal
offence in taking away beer from a shop or
a house —barring a public-house at certain
hours —-neither is it a crime to crook one’s
elbow in the main street. It had to be
nroved that the lush was intended for con-
sumption on the premises, and that hadn’t
been done in this case. So Parliament is
to be invited to further amend the blessed
Act —and when it has done so another smart
gent, one will probably push another hole
through it.
State-school teachers in Victoria, who
have long held aloof from the State Service
Federation, composed as it is of such humble
wage-earners as letter-sorters and the like,
are at last nosing around the bait of high
wages dangled before them by the manage-
ment of the S.S.F. Gordon Carter, gen.
sec. of the Federation, is helping the aloofers
to make up their minds by scattering the
seeds of upliftment at meetings held in coun-
try centres; and a sign of the times is the
fact that the usually sluggish Teachers’
Union is now showing unusual activity in
its various branches, which will presently be
called on to consider the question of affilia-
tion with the bigger body.
The Australian importing habit is now
blocking the settlement of South Aus. sol-
diers on the Murray, where there are other-
wise better prospects than anywhere else in
the State. A number of men who have
passed through the Training Farm, and
others who have qualified by previous farm-
ing experience, are waiting to take up land,
but the Irrigation Department can’t procure
machinery and materials. There is a fur-
ther difficulty about wire-netting. The De-
partment requires 100 miles of it, but it can
only be bought for forward delivery. Even
then the price is £6O a mile (treble the pre-
war rate), and fencing-wire is also from two
to three times what it was before Gallipoli.
And still there are some farmers who don’t
know what we want Protection for.
“Sol M.”: Sydney is a cold and profiteered
place these days. People who want elec-
tricity in bulk from the City Council for
heating purposes must buy a sort of clock
or meter to measure it with, the supply of
bulk lighting being short through lack of
imported machinery. The clock (imported)
isn't supplied by the City Council, but can
be obtained from a private firm. The article
looks as if it might be worth £8 at the out-
side, and the duty isn’t much. There ought
to be a Parliamentary inquiry as to what it
really does cost. It is sold to the public
at about £l7. Exactly who gets all the
difference I don’t know, but I would like to
know. Possibly if local manufacture com-
menced the price would go down. Australia
has all the materials for making electrical
machinery and electricity and clocks and
meters. It lias the coal and iron, and the
men, and the paper money, and the union
leaders to arrange the strike, and the
Arbitration Court to fail to settle the dis-
pute, and the go-slow habit, and the stop-
work meeting, and the loan at 54 per cent.
Also it has men like Gunner Yates, who
hold, whenever anybody in Australia tries to
make anything, that he is a bloated exploiter
who has accumulated £74.000.000 by oppress-
ing the poor. Meanwhile the poor—or at
least the cold —are being oppressed very
much by having to pay £l7 for an imported
ticker and then wait till the cows roost
high till they get it. Who benefits by all
that money?
Passed out at Brockville, Ontario, Canada.
William H. Comstock, who amassed a great
fortune as the proprietor of Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills. He conducted the busi-
ness for over 60 years, and was 89 when
Peter opened the gate.
“S.”: Last week a Scotchwoman made in-
quiries at a Sydney ’flu depot about claim-
ing a nursing fee from the Government for
both herself and son, “as they nursed
one another when ill.” That beat’s Lauder.
“Oueyn”: Memories of the Kyabram
(Vic.) political circus of 20-odd years ago
were revived by the death of Sam Lancaster,
nurseryman and fruit-grower. Carried on
the crest of the wave of emotion (or hys-
teria), Sam was washed into one of the
Rodney seats in the Assembly. Soon after
his arrival he began to worry the House to
do what he claimed members had been sent
there for. Peacock cackled, and in response
to Sam’s pained query as to the cause of the
hilarity, looked benignly on the newchum
and told him he would find Parliament a
very nice club before he had been there six
months. Lancaster thereupon started a party
to reform the clubmen, and met the usual
fate of those who oppose machine politics.
He went out at the next election.
W. J. Speight, who went west recently in
Auckland (M.L.), was the hero of one of
the toughest Parliamentary election fights
ever witnessed in that city, when he captured
the Auckland East seat in 1878 by only
eight votes, defeating one of Auckland’s big
merchants, J. McCosh Clark. Speight ran
on the Grey ticket, and the name of George
Grey was one to conjure with in Auckland
in those days. At the following election
Speight was a candidate for the Thames,
where he had run a paper for some years;
but this time he was beaten by the brilliant
Johnny Sheehan, at one time Native Minis-
ter, by only 17 votes. Speight was a force-
ful Irishman, born in Dublin 75 years ago.
After he went out of politics he became
manager in Auckland for the Government
Life Insurance Department.
The Afghan is a good non-manufacturing
soldier like the Australian. In the days
when men belabored each other with swords
or shot at each other with guns that were
good for 100 yards—in fact when one brave
man was much the same as another —he
buried a whole British army and was a holy
terror on the border. Now science has left
him behind as it has left the Persian and
the Arab and the Tartar, and he is just
what the Australian would be if he had to
depend on such arms and ships as he has
learned to turn out himself. The hook-
nosed folk who are suspected of being the
Lost Tribes of Israel went to war an hour
or two ago, and behold, their mountains
have become only a row of pins and their
Khyber Pass is a back number. The aero-
planes got above them, and they realised
that they were people fighting the air at the
bottom of a well, and having boulders
dropped on their skulls.
By Knibbs’s understudy :
Treasurer Fitzpatrick (N.S.W.) has done the in-
evitable thing. He explains that the complaint
against the tail end or sediment of the wheat of
19X6-17 (the mouse-plague year) is really engineered
by speculators who have sold more wheat certificates
than they can deliver and want to create prejudice
against the wheat in order to get out of the mess.
If they succeed the suffering farmer, it seems, will
lose £1,000,000. These certificates are worth about
6d. now, so the talk of £1,000,000 might imply that
the N. S. Wales farmers (N. S. Wales is the only
State concerned) have still certificates for 40,000,000
bushels on hand. It seems a lot, as the whole crop
was less than 37,000,000 bushels, of which less than
33,000,000 went into the pool and had certificates
issued against it. Even if Fitzpatrick assumes that
speculators have over-sold so badly that they would
have to pay the farmers 9d., it would appear that
the latter- still hold 30,000,000 out of less than
33,000,000 certificates —this after the speculator has
been battening on them for nearly 21 years. Also,
on the ninepenny basis, to make up the £1,000,000
Fitzpatrick talks of, the speculators would have to
buy the lot, which seems to imply that, in an hour
of madness, they sold 33,000,000 bushels of certifi-
cates when there were only 3,000,000 floating about
the market to make delivery with. Speculators must
be a childlike lot, and it is cruelty to let them
out without a nurse.


£.32 10 0
warn
£l4 10 0
£25
£l3 10 0
£l5
£l3 10 0
The Firm with a World’s Record
STEWART DAWSONS
Their Ten Huge Establishments
are daily devoting their Ready Cash resources to provide their clients with
the World’s Best Values in Precious Stones, Jewellery, Silverware, etc.
YOUR CHOICE SHOULD REST IN QUALITY.
Pay due attention to the Quality of the Diamonds. You only get value where it exists.
The purity and brilliance of the stones in Stewart Dawson’s Diamond Rings diffuse that
light and lustre known only in Diamonds of First Quality.
Inferior Diamonds neither give satisfaction nor pleasure: to buy them is money wasted.
Stewart Dawson’s Diamonds stand supreme. Their Quality is the highest water-mark
of distinction.
ALL DIAMONDS SET IN REAL PLATINUM.
Any of the above Rings can be purchased at any of the Stewart Dawson Establishments.
Catalogue with Ring-size Card will be sent Post Free if desired.
jjj w—iiiiijij
£6 10 0
£lO
£l2 10 0
[immiMHiHnmijT
£l3 10 0
£25
£32 10 0
3,7 r, ■7, 79, 81 Regent Street,
LONDON,
STEWART DAWSON & CO. (Aust.) Ltd.
Sydney. Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth, Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch, Dunedin.
19, 20, 21 Hatton Garden,
LONDON, E.C.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Mitchell is the third Premier that West-
ralia has had within a month. He is a cheer-
ful and genial character. Like Forrest, he
was born near Bunbury, and after leaving
school he spent some time working on his
father’s farm. Later, he was a junior clerk
in the W.A. Bank’s service, arid became
manager at Northam. He entered the State
Assembly as member for that district in
1905, and not long afterwards became Min-
ister for Lands in the Moore Government.
He held the same portfolio in the succeed-
ing Wilson Ministry, and had charge of the
Railway and Industries Departments in the
second administration formed by Wilson. On
LITTLE WRETCH!
MRS. ARGUS HERALDGRAPH: “Ah ! Ter at
that again, are yer!”'
the defeat of the Scaddan Government, when
the Nationalist party fired Wilson and
appointed Lefroy as its leader, two years ago,
Mitchell got the huff and gave up office.
His next move was to try and throw down
the Lefroy Government. He failed and then
retired into the background, from which he
was induced to emerge a few weeks ago to
become Minister of Lands in the Colebatch
Cabinet.
Federal affairs are quiet. Parliament
closed last December, and isn’t to meet till
July, when it has to get together for a few
days to blew the money. Then it is seri-
ously suggested that it should close again,
and let the tariff and all the other affairs of
the country slide till next year. Three Min-
isters are still away, and their understudies
say they can’t do anything worth mention-
ing till the expensive loafers come home
about the blankth day of Dunno in the year
Godknowswhen. The Acting Prime Minister
is ill and cross, and says he will never speak
to the papers again so long as he lives. A Fed-
eral “publicity officer” or billsticker or back-
scratcher is to be hired at £504 per annum.
The Government has spent £71.000.000 in
nine months—£26,ooo,ooo of its own money
and £45,000,000 borrowed. The expenses of the
Institute of Science and Industry and the
Bureau of Commerce and Industry still grow
bigger, though one of them has no legal
existence except bluff. Meanwhile Industry
consists chiefly of the news that more lines
of business have closed up, though Com-
merce, which is the art and mystery of im-
porting bad matches and women’s hats,
flourishes exceedingly. The Federal police
force, founded in a moment of frenzy when
an egg was thrown at Hughes, costs a bigger
bill this year than last. Furthermore, the
weary Government flatly refuses to inquire
further into the Shaw Wireless stench, about
which some people are very insistent, while
others aren’t.
As announced: —
Acting Prime Minister Watt is very angry with
the newspaper press of the Commonwealth. He has
decided, for the present, not to communicate anv
further Government news from the Prime Minister's
Department to any journal.
Which puts Watt’s Ministry in a nut-
cracker ; Less said, soonest ended.
Holman speaking proudly of the N.S.W.
Arbitration Act: —•
During the 12 months the Act has been in opera-
tion 204 industrial disputes have been settled; 204
grievances have been removed ; 204 running sores on
the body politic have been cured.
Running sores are things that break out on
the •unemployed poor, thus starving sailors
on a raft get them. Well-fed and satisfied
people who are busy earning big wages sit
making ships or engines or tweed clothes
don’t get so many sores. To have 204 of
them on one body in a year suggests that
there is very little skin left.
“Watt-Oh” : What’s the matter with Watt?
His health is not of the best, but it isn’t
that which has irritated him this week.
Some of the morning napers seem to have
riled him by chopping his “copy” about, and
so he says “Nothing for the papers.” What
he means is that there is nothing for the
press until the press gives him the guarantee
that it will not add to, subtract from, re-
vise, misuse or otherwise maltreat his official
utterances, but will print them in the form
in which they are supplied. Pressmen on
the Federal “rounds” in other days had to
stand up to similar outburst on the part of
the other Billy, but Watt is a different sort
of man. Usually he greets the
in hearty fashion ; now he is as vitriolic as
Hughes in his worst mood.
Women were well into
the fight in the recent
Maoriland City Council
elections. At Auckland
Miss E. Melville and
Mrs. E. H. Maguire were
re-elected; at Wellington
five ladies failed to induce
electors to vote for
the m —although three
were elected on the Hos-
pital Board; and at
Christchurch another lot
made Adam scratch his
head with the butt-end of
the scrubbing-brush.
Maoriland Worker is
cocking a feather. At
Wellington four elected
Labor City Councillors
have been or are con-
nected with the journal
—J. Hutchison (mana-
ger). C. 11. Chapman
(sub-editor). P. Fraser
(one-time acting-editor)
and J. Glover. Harry
E. Holland (ex-editor of
the Worker) climbed
from the “chair” to
municipal and Parliamentary glory, or what-
ever it is.
The Peake Government in South Aus.
seems to be riding for a fall. The National-
ist part of the coalition which put it into
power is getting very restive. Proportional
representation has taken the fancy of most
of the Nationalists, and to a deputation
which urged its adoption Peake gave a fight-
ing speech against it. He is a firm believer
in the party system, and puts his view this
way
“Under proportional representation, Lloyd George
would not have received such a majority as he
recently asked for and obtained.... The two
parties to the position to be faced are the Socialists
and their allies, against which are all who are
opposed to them, called by whatever name; there
should be no room for any midway standing.”
Heaven forbid ! Get the country stand on its
political head rather.
Mitchell is the thirteenth Premier of
Westrafia. The number is being added to
rapidly of late. Four of those who have
previously held the Premiership are dead—
Leake, Throssell. Wilson and Forrest —-six
are residing in W. Aus. and two find the Cold
Country agrees with them.
From the gallery:—
Tipped that Harry Morton and lawyer Colquhouri
will be the also-rans for the N. S. Wales Speaker-
ship. The former is said to have retired from the
contest —much as his Show-jumpers used to do on
topping the bar for the third time. P. B. Colqu-
houn is well liked and scholarly, but doesn’t seem
to “get the atmosphere.” As one of the temporary
Chairmen of Committees his low-spoken and judicial
obtuseness compared none too well with the work
of men like Osborne and Hickey from the Opposition
side. Anyhow, the Chairmanship of Committees at
£740 per annum isn't a bad consolation prize.
WORTH IT.
FIRST CITIZEN : "Just think , sir. of the
almost impossible jobs that fleet has
successfully tackled."
SECOND CITIZEN : "Yes, it has even recon-
ciled me to paying my income-tax."
“Gallery”: The Federal Parliament will
probably reassemble about the beginning of
July, and almost immediately there should
be a disturbance anent the Government’s
refusal to inquire further into the Shaw
Wireless scandal. The subject is bound to
excite the immoderate eloquence of Bill Higgs
and other Laborites, and it is quite possible
that several disgruntled Nationalists _ will
howl their concurrence with the Opposition.
There is a nice wad of money that still re-
mains unexplained, and if only for the honor
of Jensen’s colleagues when the deal was
made, some attempt ought to be made to
trace the cash to its present address. The
current attitude of Watt and Co. suggests
that they almost smell something, and are
afraid that another inquiry might confirm
their noses in an overpowering nmnner.
The Hughes Government’s Institute of
Science and Industry is growing to be quite
a big frill, yet it exists purely on bluff. The
Bill for its creation hasn’t passed yet. If
it doesn’t pass, and it should be fought to
the last ditch as a protest against the in-
sufferable cheek of porfolio-ed persons, some-
one should demand that Ministers be held
personally responsible for whatever outlay
has been incurred, even if a bumbailiff has to
collect on their furniture.
On Friday some N. S. Wales Labor mem-
bers and one Senator from Queensland
gathered at Sydney to demand the Canberra
capital—the Metropolis in Two Pieces —•
immediately. Everybody concerned, it was
said, could be housed in temporary shacks
one-storey high inside nine months. Not one
of those present said that Canberra is the
best possible site in Australia, or even that
it is the tenth-best site in N. S. Wales, or
that it can be called a fairly good site. The
place—which only exists by Act of Parlia-
ment, after all —might be a family misfor-
tune or a defeat or a lost indemnity for all
its friends say to the contrary.
Back in 1853, when Sydney had only
Mayors, not Gaud Mayors—it began to have
Gaud Mayors in 1902 —the Government sus-
pended the municipal constitution for three
years. It dispensed on honorable terms with
all parties concerned and replaced them with
a trio of commissioners or tyrants, or audi-
tors. They might be called overhaulers. The
advantage of a move of this sort, especially
when it is done so suddenly that there isn’t
time to shift even the contents of the cup-
board where the liquor is kept and where a
skeleton might have trespassed, is that, if
there should be a dead body on the premises,
discovery is almost certain. And if there is
no such cadaver, everybody is pleased to
have an assurance to that effect. Unpaid
officials, like aldermen, have to serve for pure
love of their fellow citizens, and it is a small
thing to throw in a clear certificate of
character once in, say, 60 years.
Captain Konig, commander of the notori-
ous “commercial” submarine, U-boat
Deutschland, was recently elected chairman
of the Lower Weser Ger-
man People’s party, the new
name of the old National
Liberal Organisation. No
man should know the
“lower” business better.
The constitution of the
Vic. Farmers’ Union leaves
the tariff to the individual
opinions of members; but
the farmer’s natural ten-
dency towards black-labor
binder-twine and cheap im-
ported crockery has at last
driven the Bendigo branch
to pass a resolution, with-
out objectors, protesting
against any alterations in
(lie tariff until after the
next general elections, “or
until a duly constituted in-
quiry has shown the neces-
sity for such alteration.”
Evidently Hayseed didn’t
notice the establishment of
a Tariff Commission. Some
time ago, abandoning oppo-
sition to the union, the
Argus advised farmers to
join up and run the show in
the “right” direction, and
apparently Hayseed has
done so. Yet it is the
Argus outlook which leaves
the Vic. farmer to-day
mostly a discontented fiddler,
with 4d. to jingle in his
pants’ pockets and a long-
standing bill at the local
store, while his brother in
the U.S.A., who saves thou-
sands of miles of needless
haulage, is affluent.
Westralia’s latest Ministry contains Mit-
chell. Premier, Colonial Treasurer and Min-
ister for Lands and Repatriation, and J.
Scaddan, Colonial Secretary and Minister
for Railways—provided lie can secure the
Albany seat. They still call England
“Home”!
In the way of freedom from guile and base
suspicion the Postal Department takes the
bun. One annoyance, a while ago, arose
when two men, supposed to be postal officials
because they looked as much like that as
anything else, addressed the man in charge
of the railway van at a N.S.W. South Coast
station and demanded a bag which dido
belong there. It was. handed out as casually
as a sovereign might have been handed to
a complete stranger who offered in the dark
to put the giver on a sure thing for the Cup.
A recent story, as told by the postal officials
in court, was more complicated. A youth
said he took a bag of mail to Randwick P.O.
about 10.50 p.m., and locked it up. Then
a voice on the ’phone told his superior officer
something—apparently that he was to send
the bag out into the dead waste and middle
of the night so that it might be given to
somebody whom he hadn’t seen. By instruc-
tions from the voice he engaged a motor-car
at the Department’s 'expense, and in it a
youth and the bag, which had been- roused
from its slumbers, drove to a tram-shed,
where the bag was handed to a figure that
materialised out of the gloom. The figure
said it would pay for the car later on, and
was last seen walking with Webster’s pro-
perty towards Centennial Park. That was
the simple narrative which the prosecution
told against itself, and if it has got hold of
the real bag-taker it has captured a person
of infinite jest.
“Ess” : The first thing that was inscribed
on our local soldiers’ memorial was the
name of Aid. Wrangle, the Mayor, who
wasn’t within thousands of miles of the war
front. The names of the fallen will be in-
scribed on the side and back facets; but the
little mayor’s name is on the very front, where
nobody can miss it. I suppose little Bumbles
are pasting their advts. on the Digger’s coffin
all over the country. Surely a Govern-
ment that won’t allow a struggling suburban
cobbler to advertise himself as a Returned
Digger without the permission of the De-
fence Department could say something about
this greater scandal.
'OME AGAIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I'm 'ome again—gassed, busted, gannny-legged.
I've done me bit, as 1 was urged to do,
F’r King an’ country. ’Ow they cried an’ begged
F’r me t’ go, an’ nobly “see it through” !
1 saw it through, orrite —an’ it was Hell!
I’m ’ome again. Now, what about it? Well?
The day 1 lef’ they smothered me with iiow'rs;
They cheered, an’ yelled, an’ ’owled till all was
blue;
Their “strong posts” sang, an’ waved their flags i r
hours.
One fat ole bloke ses: “Hoy, I envy you!’
But now I’m ’ome, there ain’t no cheerin’ mobs
T’ wclo’ be crippled blokes ’o’s lost their jobs.
There ain’t no flow’rs, confetti, wavin’ flags—
There ain’t no bonser tarts t’ kiss their 'ands
An’ sling us choc’lates, san’wiehes an’ fags;
There ain’t no choruses an’ brayin’ bauds.
The loud-mouthed patriots cursed the slackers, then;
But ’oo’s the slackers, now we’re ’oine again?
“Death to the Kaiser!” everybody yelled,
“We’ll never trade with Germany no more!”
But now, they kids “tli’ war-clouds is dispelled,”
So *"’Uns can come an’ find a open door.
An’ from ’is castle blood-stained Wilhelm sends
Undyin’ love t’ all ’is English friends! .
’Ave I gone ratty, balmy, up th’ pole?
Is this fair dinkum, that they’ve turned me down?
Ain’t these flagwaggers got no bloomin’ soul?
I ask f’r work, I want no laurel crown!
“'ls country’s saviour 1” w.’en I went they cried —
I’m ’ome again. Must I be crucified?
N.S.W.
NORMAN CAMPBELL.


GOOD NIGHT!


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
Registered
BHAS
Brand.
Producers of Lead in the following forms—
Refined Lead, Corroding Lead, Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated),
Super-refined Lead, Chemical Lead.
Also of—
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated), Spelter,
and the following Alloys and Metallic Products—
Antimonial Lead, Linotype Metal, Litharge (Industrial and Assay),
Bearing Metals, Leaded Zinc Pigments, Blue Powder.
Purchasers on a Specially Favorable Tariff of Silicious Silver-Lead Ores, Slags, etc.,
containing Silver and Lead, Lead Drosses, Zinc Drosses.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE—
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
LONDON OFFICE: PINNERS HALL, AUSTIN FRIARS, E.C. 2
A. .T. SMITH, London Secretary.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 25 O’CONNELL STREET. SYDNEY—
R. N. KIRK (Agent).
ADELAIDE OFFICE: 62 BROOKMAN’S BUILDING, ADELAIDE—
A. W. LEWIS (Agent).
SMELTING WORKS, PORT PIRIE, S.A.
COKE WORKS. BELLAMBI. N.S.W.
PIONEER Leather Belting
The most efficient and economical power transmitter.
SOLE .
MAKERS
J. C. LUDOWICI CSL SON LTD.,
PIONEER WORKS, 117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
ELECTRIC STEEL
“THE STEEL OF THE FUTURE.”
We make a Feature of Specially Heat-treated Steel Castings for Ore
Crusher and Rock Breaker Parts. Battery and Mill Liners. Stamper
Shoes and Dies, Cams, Heads, Tappets, Ring Dies. Tramway Tyres.
Toughened Steel Truck Wheels. We can supply any quality hitherto
imported.
ALE STAGES OF MANUFACTURE UNDER MODERN SCIENTIFIC CONTROL.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.,
Telegraphic Address: “Electric Steel.” ALEXANDRIA, SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Bank of Australasia: —
Written
Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
Apl., ’lO.. 193,722 16p.e.= 128,000 18,000 1,775,194
Oct., ’lO.. 198,531 16 ~ ~128,000 20,000 1,825,725
Apl. ’II.. 198,460 16 ~ .. 128,000 20,000 1,876,185
Oct., ’ll.. 205,889 17 ~ ~ 136,000 20,000 1,926,074
Apt, ’12.. 208,171 17 „ ~136,000 20,000 1,978,245
Oct., ’12.. 216,303 17 ~ ~136,000 20,000 2,038,548
Apt. ’13.. 206.644 17 „ ~136.000 20,000 2,089,192
Premiums on new shares, £600,000. . 2,689,192
Oct., ’13.. 220,977 17 p.c.= 170.000 20,000 2,720,169
Apl., ’14.. 233,897 17 „ ~170,000 2,784,066
Oct., ’14.. 210,509 17 „ ~170,000 2,824,575
Apl., ’15.. 208,778 17 ~ ~170,000 2,863,353
Oct., ’15.. 201,743 17 „ ~170,000 2,895,096
Apl., ’16.. 206,663 17 „ ~170,000 2,931,759
Oct., ’16.. 200,905 17 ~ ~170,000 —■ 2,962,664
Apt, ’17.. 205,205 17 „ ~170,000 —• 2,997,869
Oct., ’17.. 200.441 17 „ ~170,000 —■ 3,028,310
Apt, ’lB.. 212,827 17 ~ ~170,000 3,071,137
Oct., ’lB.. 225,918 17 ~ ~170,000 3,127,055
’['he figures far the Oct., 1918, half were
placed before shareholders in London in
March, and by that time Fritz had been
counted out and the ’Asia people had a fair
idea of immediate prospects. And they
looked so bright that, as one banker put it,
“the dreary process of writing down security
values seems to have ended for the time
being.” Disclosed net profits were there-
fore allowed to leap practically £25,000
ahead of other October term war-perform-
ances. But though war-time earnings have
been clipped in this “dreary process” of
providing for contingencies, gross profits
(less these unspecified clippings) have
bounded ahead :
Year to
Oct., Dross Profits. Expenses. Taxes.
1913.. £788,606 £299,818 £61,167
1914.. 836,549 307,623 74,520
1915.. 846.202 317,290 118.391
1916.. 948,589 348,402 192,620
1917.. 9'2,206 349,751 196,810
1918.. 1,020,966 361,052 221,168
Who, in 191”, could have dared to forecast
that the ’Asia would emerge from four years’
experience of the world’s greatest war with-
out any scars and showing an increase of
almost 30 p.c. in its gross profits? After
providing additional props for its weaker
assets, increased taxes alone have prevented
the management disclosing record net profits.
Despite special war exes., the cost of earn-
ing the larger profits has, apart from taxes,
been proportionately smaller; but increased
taxes have lifted the total outgoings 01 p.c.
in five years.
Though there was always a doubt as to
what troubles might lie ahead, from a profit-
earning point of view the conditions during
the war period suited the big banks very
well. The inflation of the currency and
high prices for staples have given them
larger deposits to play with. This shows
how the ’Asia’s figures have moved :—-
Liabilities.
Oct., ’l3. Oct., ’l7. Oct., ’lB.
Notes.. .. £168,818 £950,819 £761,710
Bills, etc. . . 2,768,848 3,021,534 3,628,424
Deposits . . 18.088,955 20,891,101 21,903,754
Assets.
Liquid assets. . 8,349,113 9,817,1.59 8,448,724
Advances . . 17,565,435 20,219,096 23,123,421
Premises . . 2,241 25,509 18,799
Shareholders’ funds five years ago amounted
to £4,890,109; in October last they were
£5,297,055 —an increase of £406,886. Liabili-
ties to .the public have meantime increased by
£5,267,268. So the management has had an
additional 5* millions to work for the bank.
Increased accommodation to customers alone
accounts for more than that. But a lot of
the advances on the books at the end of last
year were in lines returning comparatively
little profit—there has not been much in
wheat and War Loan advances, for instance.
Directly, when this money comes back again,
it will be free to flow in ordinary channels,
and promts should improve with the return
to normal conditions, even though taxation
is certain to be further increased, particu-
larly at the Australian end.
Besides being a very big concern the ’Asia
is in the Queen Liz. class in strength. It
holds £26.293,888 of the public’s money,
£8,448,724 of which is represented by liquid
assets, and about £2,862,000 of it by Govern-
ment securities “at market price or under,”
which hints that there is a substantial inner
reserve. To meet the £17,845,164 of liabili-
ties not represented by liquid assets there is
£23.123,421 of advances, on which the prun-
ing-knife has no doubt been busy during the
war years. Besides the advances, there are
premises, standing in the books at £18,799,
which is about the value of a foot or so of
the Sydney property alone. How much is
in this additional internal reserve, The
Bulletin has no idea; certainly hundreds
of thousands.
Shareholders have not suffered as a result
of the war. Even in the darkest patch they
got their 17 p.c. and left at least £30,000
of disclosed profit in the business! And
the 17 p.c. is free of income-tax, which makes
it equal to over p.c. on paid capital.
That dividend looks unreasonably large; but
since £3,127,055 of reserves have been
accumulated, while paid-up capital is two
millions, the div., free of income-tax, is
really equal to only a little over p.c. on
shareholders’ funds. Incidentally, the ’Asia
accounts will be made up yearly to October
in future, and the co.’s Charter is to be
altered to wipe, away the geographical re-
strictions which have so far kept it out of
four continents and the Pacific islands.
The Equitable Permanent Benefit
Building, Land and Savings Institution
(Sydney);—
Written Re-
March, Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
1908. . £10,102 9 p.c. = £6,838 £5lB £39,551
1909.. 9,933 12 „ „ 8,451 455 40,578
1910.. 10,741 9 „ „ 6,338 760 44,221
1911.. 11,835 9 „„ 6,338 100 49,018
1912.. 12,805 15 „ „ 10,564 363 51,496
Premiums on new shares, £1942. . 53,438
1913.. 12,365 9 p.c. = 7,204 88 58,511
1914.. 18,890 9 „„ 8,401 80 68,920
1915.. 15,108 15* „ ~ 14,395 25 69,608
1916.. 15,187 10 „ „ 9,390 22 75,383
1917.. 14,776 10 „„ 9,390 3 80,766
1918.. 14,476 16 „ „ 15,024 80,218
1919.. 15,254 10 „ „ 9,390 3 86,079
The Equitable finds present conditions good.
High rents have influenced people to set.
about acquiring their own homes, while the
artificial prosperity due to the war has given
many an opportunity to find the necessary
initial deposits to purchase property on t.-p.
During the war years the co. was cautious in
the matter of new advances, and 12 months
ago it had £44,000 piled up in “temporary in-
vestments.” Since the war-clouds lifted, how-
ever, the management has been lending more
freely, as shown in this comparison of eacli
year’s new advances :
1909.. £64,004 1915.. £82,093
1910.. 76,622 1916.. 71,907
1912.. 115,455 1917.. 85,482
1913.. 116,687 1918.. 75,797
1914.. 104,825 1919.. 97,918
There is now £330,534 out in mortgages,
compared with £336.553 five years ago. But
increased interest rates have made busi-
ness much more profitable: £36,940 was got
from interest earnings last year, compared
with £35,136 in 1914.
For shareholders the concern has been
very profitable. Nowadays they get a regu-
lar 10 p.c. p.a., and at the end of every three
years there is an additional distribution of
profits. Last year’s bonus of 6 p.c. meant
that for the three years 1916-18 shareholders
got 12 p.c. p.a. After paying divs. there
has always been a wide margin of profit left
in the business, and during the past 10 years
over £43.500 (or equal to nearly half the
paid capital) has been added to reserves.
Besides its own funds of almost £lBO.OOO.
the Equitable is working on £222.045 of
deposits; that is, for every £1 of its own
funds it holds £l 4s. Bd. of the public’s
money. The depositors are thus very well
protected, for after meeting all other liabili-
ties out of cash in hand, there are £330 h
of mortgages, £18,604 in freehold premises,
£6255 in bank stock and £46,633 in public
securities, deposits and cash, etc., to meet
their £222,045. So over 50 p.c. of the book
value of the mortgages and premises would
have to be lost before depositors were denied
a penny of their money.
* * * *
Perkins and Co., Ltd., brewers (Bris-
bane)
Dividends and Added to Re-
Feb., Profits. Dividend Tax. Reserves, serves.
1909. . £25,572 20 p.e. = £21,000 £4,572 £89,838
1910.. 27,215 20 „ „ 21,000 6.215 96,053
1911.. 24,701 20 „ „ 21,000 3,701 99,754
1912.. 24,630 20 „ ~ 21,000 3,630 103,384
Premiums on new shares . . 11,111 114,495
1913.. 22,516 ll£p.c.= 14,138 8,378 122.873
1914.. 25,114 12} „ „ 17,457 7,657 130,530
1915.. 23,967 12* „ „ 17,495 6,472 137,002
£ 133,333 transferred to capital .. 3 669
1916.. 25,426 6 p.c. = 16,887 ) „
Written off, £6,539 ( 2,000 5,669
1917.. 22,630 6 p.c. = 16,797 ) ,
Written off, £5,833 f ~~ 5,009
1918.. 25,118 7 p.c. = 19,599 I *„ „„ Q
Written off, £4519 ( 1,000 6,069
1919.. 25.006 7 p.c. = 19.599 1 , T
Written off, £4407 f 1,000 7,669
That shows only an exact £4OOO tacked on
to reserves in four years; but the co. prob-
ably did better than shown by the figures
above. Nowadays a round thousand is
transferred to a dividend equalisation re-
serve, and the _ balance of net profits
after paying dividends is dropped into
a “rest account.” Apparently something
over • £14.000 has found its way into
this account since 1915, but how much
of the £14,000 could be regarded as true
reserves The Bulletin does not know.
Probably the fund is something in the nature
of a contingencies reserve, though the direc-
tors lump the account with ordinary trade
liabilities, and some of the £14,000 may
have disappeared altogether. But a glance
at the table shows that though over
£84,000 more is invested in the busi-
ness than 10 years ago, profits are
now smaller than they used to be. Mean-
time, from the point of view of consumption
everything has been bright in Queensland,
which was about the only State in the
Commonwealth which didn’t help to win the
war with early-closing of pubs. Apparently
there is now considerably less profit in beer
than there used to be; exes, have been climb-
ing steadily year after year, and it has been
difficult to pass the extra cost on. But all
the additional expenditure has not been in-
curred in the brewing, for administration
charges and taxes now take a much larger
cut, as these figures show :
•Profit on
Brewings, etc. Expenses. Depreciation.
1909.. £36.866 £10,301 £1359
1914.. 49,079 17,698 6909
1917.. 48,348 17,617 8101
1918.. 52,321 19,773 7430
1919.. 58,434 24,994 8374
Whereas 10 years ago exes, (including depre-
ciation) absorbed 32 p.c. of the brewing
profits and net receipts from spirit and wine
agencies, the bite is now 57 p.c. Still share-
holders have nothing much to complain
about; they are now receiving 7 p.c. divs.
without difficulty, and since half the
paid capital of £2(!o,(i(i7 consists of reserve
fund transfers, the return to old shareholders
is considerably better than 7 p.c. p.a.
This shows the movement in the balance-
sheet figures:—
1900. 1909. 1914. 1919.
Liabilities . . £12,492 £25,627 £66,473 £120,397
Freeholds, plant,
etc. .. .. 64,679 104,415 172,005 191,691
Stocks . . . . 32,301 41,827 59,432 81,756
Loans, book debts,
etc 31,324 69,149 99,600 106,948
Cash, etc. . . 5,934 10,575 9,800 27,194
The properties and plant item continues to
expand—since 1914 £38,859 lias been writ-
ten off’ for depreciation, but the book value
of these assets has meantime grown by
£19,680. Liabilities were unusually heavy
when the accounts were made up at the end
of February, but the inclusion of the “rest”
account has helped to swell the total during
recent years. If present trading conditions
continue Perkins’s should do fairly well,
though the co. will have to meet heavier taxa-
tion shortly. However, it seems certain
the days of fat profits have gone for good.
Federal Pastoral Shearing Co., Ltd.,
shearing and scouring contractors (Sydney).
The deficit with which, the co. began was
made up of goodwill (£9500) and prelimi-
nary exes.: —
Dec., Loss. Dividends. To Reserves. Deficit.
£9,635
1912 . . £4,216 .Nil 13,851
Profit.
1913 .. 486 Nil £486 13,365
1914 . . 5,950 Nil 5950 7,415
Loss.
1915 .. 1,775 Nil 9,190
4916 . . 9,734 Nil 18,924
Profit.
1917 . . 1,344 Nil 1344 17,580
Written off capital, £869 16,711
1918 .. 11,720 10 p.c. = £2365 9355 7,356
Reserves.
Written off capital, £7520 164
This co. is in a difficult business; it con-
tracts to clip squatters’ jumbucks over a
period of years, and results depend upon
erratic factors. If seasons are unfavorable
it is likely to be let in for a lot of “charity”
work and show losses; and also it has to
stand the racket of all labor troubles. The
loss of £9734 made on shearing 6,401,400
sheep in 1916 and the profit of £12,589 from
clipping 3,975,998 for the past year illustrate
the extremes of the business. The 1916
season was abnormally wet, and labor both
scarce and troublesome; in fact, conditions
were just about as bad as .they could be.
Last season was unusually good, and re-
turned a net profit of almost 56 p.c. on paid
caxiital. But, besides unfavorable seasons,
the co. has had other troubles. In 1912 it
was formed to take over the Federal Sheep
Shearing Co., Ltd., paying £12,000 cash and
10.000 fully-paid 10s. shares to the vendor
concern, and making available a further
10.000 fully-paids as a bait to get in con-
trib. capital, every four contribs. sub-
scribed being entitled to one bonus share.
Of the paid capital of £22,562 at December
31 last no less than £8631 consisted of good-
will froth and bonus-share bubbles. The con-
cern was thus raised on weak foundations. A
new crowd is in command nowadays, and is
doing the proper thing and blowing oft' most
of the froth —£7520 of the capital going to
reduce goodwill to £llll. Contributing
shareholders lose the value of the bonus
shares they got, plus 4d. per share, which
isn’t much. Paid capital will now stand at
£15.041 (25 493 fully-paid 6s. Bd. shares and
32,717 contribs. paid to 45., with a further
2s. Bd. callable). As the table shows, the
whole of the capital is now represented by
tangible assets, with £164 to spare—that is.
if the assets are worth every penny they are
shown at in the books. The new manage-
ment also soon decided that the control from
Sydney of operations in three States was not
satisfactory, so a local director in Queens-
land and another in Victoria are attending
to the co.’s interests in those States. The
concern is now on a sounder basis, and appa-
rently more efficiently managed. But its
results depend on factors beyond the control
of any management, profits will always be
erratic. Expenses are also necessarily heavy
owing to the wide field covered by the co.’s
operations—administration exes, last year,
for instance, took 10s. Bd. per 100 sheep
shorn ; and these figures are more likely to
increase than decrease irp difficult years.
The East Chet a Coal Mining Co.
(N.S.W.) :
Writ-
ten To lie- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
.c £ £ £ £
Mar., ’12.. 8,125 10 p.c. = 7,500 3500 37,803
Sept., ’12..15,210 10 „ ~ 7,500 3050 4,710 42,543
Mar., ’13..17,004 10 „ ~ 7,500 3205 0.959 49,502
Sept., ’13..18.084 10 „ „ 7,500 3303 7,251 56,783
Transferred to capital, £18,750 . . 38,033
Mar., ’14..10,032 10 p.c. = 9,207 3500 3.325 41,358
Sept., ’14.. 0,400 5 „ „ 4,997 3500 39,261
Loss.
Mar., ’15.. 713 Nil 3500 35,048
Profit.
Sept., ’15..10,533 5 p.c.= 5,000 3500 2,033 37,081
Mar., ’lO.. 9,828 5 „ „ 5,000 3500 1,328 38,409
Sept., ’16..10,254 6 „ ~ 6,000 3500 754 39,163
Mar., ’17.. 9,983 6 „ ~ 0,000 3750 233 39,390
Sept., ’17.. 9,917 0 „ ~ 6,0-00 3750 107 39,503
Mar., ’18..14.797 8 ~ „. 8,000 3750 3,047 42,610
Sept., ’18..14,756 8 „ „ 8,000 3750 3,006 45,616
Mar., ’19..10,279 8 ~ „ 8,000 1965 314 45,930
The slump in profits is explained by this
line in the superintendent’s report: “Thirty-
seven days were lost at Stanford Merthyr
during the half-year by petty strikes.” So
receipts were only £80,246 last half, com-
pared with £121,684 for the previous six
months. It is not quite clear how the co.
will fare under the recent increase in wages
and prices, granted by the Commonwealth
Government without any serious considera-
tion of the justification of the miners’
demands for further pay or whether the 3s.
per ton increase in price was a fhir thing to
pass on to the consumer. However, the N.
S. Wales Royal Commission is digging deep
into coal cos.’ affairs, and though some of
the evidence and statistics forthcoming
doesn’t look very interesting. Commissioner
Campbell is being armed with a lot of infor-
mation which will enable him to show
exactly where the consumer and the cos.
stand as a result of the latest squeeze.
So far as East Greta is concerned, the
table does not indicate that the co. has been
able to make its shareholders unduly fat.
Since 1915 no new capital has been got in.
and net profits have averaged 7f p.c. p.a., of
which shareholders have had an average of
6| p.c. each year. Rut this gives another
view of the position:—
Mar., ’l5. Mar., ’l9.
Liquid assets.. .. £19,044 £75,537
Liabilities . . . . 34,642 70,190
So at March 31 last, before handing oui
the half-year’s div.. there was a surplus of
liquid assets over liabilities of £5347, while
four years ago there was an excess of lia-
bilities of £15.598. Meantime, the book value
of fixed assets has shrunk by about £5500.
Paid capital is £200.000. and £60,000 of the
liabilities shown above represents deben-
tures. Besides acquiring and equipping the
East Greta, Stanford Merthyr and Heddon
Greta collieries, the co. also put a lot of
money into the East Greta railway. This
line has now been taken over by the South
Maitland Railways, Ltd., and the balance-
sheet makes some interesting disclosures by
separating the railway and mining interests.
For its line, rolling-stock, etc., the East
Greta apparently received £149.798 in shares
in the South Maitland Railways. Mining
and house properties now stand in the books
at only £17.668. the Heddon Greta property
at £1937 (£6OOO was paid for it five years
ago), while plant and equipment represent
£76,877. The management is at present test-
ing a new area of 3507 acres near Cessnoc-k,
and boring has proved a seam lift, thick.
So far. £2302 has been laid out on probing
this Millfield property, and a further two
bores are now being put down.
When the Holman Government saw in the
tote an easy way to get money, there
was a flutter in Totalling Mechanisms, Ltd.,
the fully-paid £1 shares soaring from Bs. to
40s. Later, it was decided to reconstruct,
and the old co. of 1911, whose paid eanital
was £42,300. became Automatic Totalisators
Ltd., in 94,966 shares of £1 fully-paid. In
December last the Board secured the world's
rights of the Premier totalisator. but how
many shareholders knew that £5OOO was paid
in cash and £97,000 in shares? Were share-
holders consulted as to the advisability of
more than doubling the issued capital by the
acquisition of “rights” of an ent'rely un-
known value? However, a nice little model
of a Premier tote has been on view lately.


You may think your switchboard requirements de-
mand panels of individual design, but, unless your
conditions are unusual, this is not true. If you have
started draughting, stop. The exact panels you need
aie already designed, classified and listed,’ waiting
for you to select them. You save both time and
money when you buy Standard Unit Panels. Write
us for particulars. Australian General Electric Com-
pany, Wentworth Avenue, Sydney; and corner of
Queen and Little Collins Streets, Melbourne.— Advt.
* * * *
Conserved water, especially in country districts,
quickly becomes contaminated. To drink such water
exposes one to grave danger from disease. Alumino-
ferric quickly clarifies and purifies water in dams,
tanks, etc. You use it in the proportion of lib. to
every 3000 gallons of water. Most effective and quite
harmless. Used by leading Water Supply Boards
throughout Australia. William Adams & Co., Ltd.,
175 Clarence Street, Sydney. Melbourne: 521-3 Col-
lins Street. Adelaide: 90 Currie Street. Brisbane:
Corner Edward and Mary Streets. Perth: S 3 King
Street. — Advt. [3
* * * *
Concentrating machinery for all classes of minerals
can be made locally just as well as they can be
imported from abroad. The Austral Otis Engineer-
ing Company, of Melbourne, specialise in all
machinery for the mill, including crushers, rolls,
grinding pans, tube mills, concentrating tables,
flotation plants, ore samplers, etc. They have
installed numbers of plants in Australia and outside
it, and are always ready to give information on
machinery for miiling.— Advt. * [4
* * * *
Pioneer Wood Stave Pipe.—A Record Delivery!
An order for 24 miles of Bin. Pioneer Wood
Stave Pipe from the N. S. Wales Government
Railways and Tramways was recently completed
in a period of eight days. The above
pipes were required urgently to convey water to
the township of Goulburn, where the reservoir was
nearly depleted. We are prepared to supply large
quantities of Wood Stave Pipe at short notice. Send
for illustrated Catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe
Co. Ltd. (Head Office), Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove,
N.S.W. P.O. Address: Box 1576 G.P.0., Sydney.
Contractors to all State Governments. — Advt.
* # * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlercagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * » #
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink's Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723. — Advt.
♦ * * «
You cannot afford to experiment with your roof;
this part of your building must be reliable. Spriggs’
Asbestolite Slates are not only reliable (by test of
time) but everlasting, being made from two im-
perishable materials, viz., cement and asbestos fibre.
Write and ask for Catalogue B, which will also
bring you price-lists of Asbestolite Sheets, Lottoid
Sheets for ceilings and walls, 3-ply Veneers, Roll
Roofing, etc. Spriggs’ Asbestolite Company, 338
Pitt-street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
The manufacture of ‘Skandia” Crude Oil Engines
in Australia, both marine and industrial types, is
receiving the recognition that the enterprise deserves.
The Federal Government has placed an order for a
large marine set, and their example has been followed
by several of the largest trading firms in Australia,
Tasmania, the Pacific Islands and Dutch East Indies.
The workmanship of the Australian “Skandia” com-
pares with any imported engine on the market.
Write Nelson & Robertson, Loftus Street, Sydney.—■
Advt.
Build “Leplastrier” long-lasting, modern machin-
ery-made roads. Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Head
Office, Sydney.— Advt.
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. 11. B. Selby & Co.,
Ltd., 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street, Melb.— Advt.
» * * *
T. H. Palmer, 8.E., Fel. Chem. Soc., etc., consult-
ing engineer, valuing, organising, technical advice,
mining, metallurgy, flotation and selective flotation
processes, Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 Pitt
Street, Sydney. Cables and Telegrams: “Remlap,
Melbourne. ’ ’— Advt.
are Bohn to
Insure in
Tk ‘ 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
lF£ta Bentialu
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Loss oi Profits
Authorised Capital
Subscribed Capital
Paid-up Capital ..
Income (Cross) 1918
Established
• • £250,000
194,235
96,497
.. 457,852
ACENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
\V. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
The British Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Co.
L*d.
Westinghouse Horizontal
Gas and Oil Engines
offer an economical solution to the medium and small power problem.
They give highly satisfactory service in driving generators for small
electric lighting installations, industrial and agricultural machinery,
etc. Reliability, economy, simplicity and durability are the features
that have been aimed at and obtained, as proved bv the large number
now giving efficient service in ail parts of the world.
Ask for
literature from
U9f
mm
Manchester
Head Office for Australia:
Queensland Building, 84, William Street, Melbourne.
Works: Trafford Park, Manchester. England.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire,
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS IRON g STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Pig Iron, Billets, Blooms, Steel Rails,
Structural Steel, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON-3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE —75 King William Street.
SYDNEY-25 O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street Melbourne.
and is to be included in the baggage of
managing-director Bethell, who is off to S.
America, Europe and 8. Africa.
Manager Boyd, combating the A.W.U.’s
claim for a new award for Mt. Morgan, pro-
duced some interesting figures concerning
recent operations at the big show. At the
beginning of last month 3230 tons copper
remained unsold, and the best price offering
was £67 per ton. Each ton cost the co.
£135 15s. to produce in the half-year ended
June, 1918, and in the following half-year
£132 35., while for the 20 weeks ended April
20 expenses went up to £143 Is. 2d. per ton.
But as the copper contained an average of
12|oz. gold per ton. the actual cost per ton
copper was about £9O. So Mt. Morgan has
now about £370,000 »piled up. Copper
stocks held in England, France, U.S.A.
and Australia are estimated at about
671,330 tons, or enough to supply the pre-
war demand for nine months. As a result
of 44 years’ fighting it is reckoned that about
three million tons of copper are lying about
in France and Belgium, and of that about
a million tons are recoverable. A large por-
tion of it is in dumps which could be re-
smelted without much expense; and battle-
field salvage is exceeding expectations.
Dick Williams, of Edna May Battler
(W.A.). has been telling shareholders some-
thing about the co.’s new go, the Trafalgar,
out from Southern Cross. Williams gives
the mine a good record, and, inferentially,
suggests that the old crowd would not have let
go if they had not specialised in rich blocks.
But they didn’t let much slip past them at
the 130 ft. level, as they grubbed out 300 ft.
of a shoot, taking 3ft. to Oft. of ore the
length ot‘ the drive. They also went under-
foot 50ft. to water-level, raking out another
150 ft. of quartz. Where they stuck was
over the sinking of a shaft to 260 ft. This
let the Battler and Williams hop in with
£3OOO cash for the mine. The show has two
chances. One is the further opening up of
the West reef after shaft-sinking, and to test
the North lode, on which only pig-rooting
has been done to date. Out of the West
reef, apart from 2000 tons stone milled for
25000 z., Williams has left a lot of low-grade
material to worry over as soon as he gets
the mill to the mine from the old show at
Westonia. That ore, he concludes, will yield
a few bob a ton and help to save calls. With
all this in the mine’s favor, Williams ends
up with : “We will open up a profitable and
valuable mining property !” Perhaps.
The two local University professors, the
Alkali Commission and Brunner. Mond’s
visiting expert should not have much diffi-
culty in convincing the British Alkali Trust
that Westralia possesses all the requisites
for the manufacture of cheap soda and
its accessories. Lake Preston, 25 miles
long by one and a half wide, is a brine
of varying salt content from 4 p.c. to 12 p.c.,
according to the dryness of the season, and
another lake to the north, 12 miles long by
half a mile wide, contains millions of tons of
finely-granulated carbonate of lime as its bed.
Between the two lakes are natural depres-
sions, which could serve as brine concentra-
tors by solar evaporation. Collie Coal is
only 70 miles distant, from which the small
quantity of ammonia necessary in the pro-
cess could be very cheaply obtained either
from a carbonising and by-product installa-
tion on the coal or by utilising the Mond sys-
tem for heat and power generating at the
alkali works. Coke of high purity is the
other necessary ingredient, and blackboy coke
is the last word in pure fuels,giving nearly
15,000 B.T.U. per lb. and containing only ’
1 p.c. of ash. Altogether, for cheapness and
ready accessibilities of raw materials, this
small portion of Westralia is without an
equal south of the line, and needs only a few
miles of connecting rail to the Waroona-
Lake Clifton line (now under construction)
to complete the programme.
Nowadays Bullfinch Proprietary (W.A.)
just manages to keep going and hold off the
bailiff. There are plenty of faces of ore in
the mine, but the rich values of the boom-
time are now as poor as Lazarus. Big lodes
of 3dwt. to 4dwt. stuff and patches of better-
grade stone are visible in various parts of
the mine, but the average is not good enough
for profit-earning. The co. is still living in
hope; but at present it is having a very cold
time.
* * * *
Phillips River (W.A.) is again dead. For
some time returns from ore treated at the
local State smelter kept the place going, but
as the quantity furnished for treatment was
not sufficient to keep the plant going more
than a little while every now and then the
Government, after deciding that the loss was
not worth while, suddenly shut down. Min-
ister for Mines Robinson is now considering
the best ways and means of rendering assist-
ance to the stranded.
* * * *
Hardly had the Duke Extended Board let
out the hews of a 2d. call to keep the wolf
from the door than Ballarat got out one of
its 'hot surprises into Alec Peacock’s office.
Shares dodged up in the market, and loud
was the howl for blood from those who had
rashly cut free from a call-making _ show
supposedly at the end of mining possibilities.
This impression arose because at the west end.
where the gold ought to be. the wash was
cemented stuff with not a color. At the east
end the gutter had bumped about so that it
was thought to be over the fence in the Duke
Consols ground. The story that got lan-
guidly into print was that bores put into the
wash at the west end had given good pro-
spects with gold of the right sample. At the
opposite end of the mine somethin? about as
tangible was said to be on the tapis.
Bryant’s luck was also in, for when things
were at their worst he was invited to come
along and help. Almost as he stepped out
of the car. up the shaft floated word of
good bores. But it is obvious that with all
its available wash stoped the Duke Extended
has to do a lot of development, which means
calls. So the luck of those who scraped in
Shares after the call-notice may not be so
great as is recorded.
When the sad fact of an empty till was
whispered in the Board-room of the Al, Gaff-
ney’s Creek (Vic.), it is said that the
“Money” Miller crowd quoted Omar: “Fill
me with the old familiar juice; But bury me
by some sweet garden side.” Of course, if
Lyell has to dodge divs., why shouldn’t Al?
But the trouble is that there had also to be a
swing on to the call-list. This misfortune
comes soon after the clever ones of the co.
got the bears in a red-hot squeeze. The
Bulletin gave a warning when oversolds
were buying back at 355. a share, with never
a soul to meet them half-way. Time has
brought its revenge, for who is there now
to take scrip at a quarter of that price?
The squeezed ones have stalked the stock
down as ruthlessly as (fid broker Vickery the
Bear Hill crowd, when he went chasing after
the £35,000 they made him pay for being
caught short in that stock. In both cases
the experience was that when those who
build up a corner want to 'sidle out they find
the banks very crumbly material. The expla-
nation of the call is that the mine must be
developed in accordance with the recommen-
dations of the manager, and that capital has
to be got. So the inside situation is that the
Al is as unreliable as most of the mountain
shows in the matter of permanence. The
floors rapidly cut in and out of gold—
mostly out.
*s* * *
Tyrconnel North, working on penny calls,
has burst through six reefs in the big tunnel
in the Sultan country at Blackwood (Vic.).
The working is in nearly half a mile, and at
2399 ft. driving is proceeding north on a lode,
the intention being to nick up a shoot of
stone that went underfoot in the old mine
overhead. Once that shoot is got the co. will
have 250 ft. of backs. Except in the case of the
Long Tunnel, Walhalla, every job like
that of the Tyrconnel North has seen cash
lost, but in country where the stone was as
rich as on the Sultan line, the gamble was
worth taking. Seeing that the water from
the old mines is draining off so slowly despite
the faulted country where driving is going
on, it looks as if the right lode formation
hasn’t yet been tapped. But with the mines
dry, what a share rustle there will be if the
old hands left a few blocks for the Tyrconnel
North.
“J.L.S.” : It has been suggested that Mor-
well (Vic.) raw brown coal should be wortn
355. a ton —or more. But comparison with
German experience is quite unwarranted, for
the simples reason that stoves, fire-boxes, fur-
naces and fuel-burning receptacles generally
are adopted, and have been constructed for
years past in that country, to burn com-
pressed dry lignite briquettes of about 10,000
B.T.U. maximum thermal value. In Vic-
toria, which has always relied on N. S.
Wales for black coal running 12-13,000
B.T.U. per lb., the fuel-burning receptacles
on the railways and for industrial and domes-
tic purposes are (with one or two recent ex-
ceptions) designed and built solely for black-
coalfiring. Morwell has one big advantage
over other low-grade fuels in Australia,
namely, cheapness of mining; and one or
two lesser advantages, such as the enormous,
quantities available (of which only a limited
amount at a time can be used), and its rather
high yield of oil by-products. Against this is
the fact that to utilise the fuel properly it
must be concentrated by carbonising and bri-
quetting the carbonised residue, and there the
binder difficulty obtrudes. The freight to
Melbourne from Morwell (ss. per ton) is
also an item in a low-grade fuel proposition.
From continuous work during the past three
years on the problems of successfully utilis-
ing Morwell brown coal commercially, I
have come to the conclusion that the so-called
untold wealth in brown coal is more or less
mythical when considered in conjunction
with the local conditions obtaining. It is for
future generations to reap the harvest. The
proposition of how best to treat Morwell coal
for the contemplated power-scheme and,
separately, as a source of supply of indus-
trial and domestic fuel to Victoria in com-
petition with Newcastle is not likely to be
settled until considerably more initial work
on briquetting, by-product recovery and
brown-coal firing generally have been carried
out. Fortunately the present Electricity
Commissioners and Messrs. Harper and Her-
man have no illusions on the potentialities of
brown coal as a short cut to untold wealth ;
and they are not likely to encourage fancy
schemes for treating the stuff unless backed
by adequate guarantees or demonstrated
successfully by large-scale trials.
The additional plant installed by King
Island Scheelite, in which the B. 11. Block 14
has such a big share-holding, resulted in the
mill in its last six months’ campaign getting
through over 12,000 tons of crush dirt. This
averaged .89 p.c. tungstic acid, and as the
resultant concentrates went practically 70
p.c. of that material, the recovery of ore con-
tents was a bit better than 77 p.c. In other
words, as the 11.0 i tons of concentrates are
valued at £20,261, then they were worth,
roughly, £lB3 per ton for a 70 p.c. product.
It took 114 tons ore to give a ton of con-
centrates, so that as costs approximated £75
per ton of concentrates, the working profit
made was £11,280. This permitted a divi-
dend of Is. per share, but, of course, the
price of the mine product was regulated by
war conditions. It is that fact that makes
the future of all scheelite and molybdenite
shows uncertain. Conditions at King Island
are ideal for cheap working, and Venn Brown
gets his costs down to 13s. G}d. per ton.
Developments on the West formation are
satisfactory, and those at the northern work-
ing are promising; so that there is more than
a kick left in the show, even above late
measured reserves, if the metal market keeps
kindly.
* * * #
The old argument re bringing the battery
to the ore or taking ore to the battery has
been revived on the molybdenite field near
Yetholme (N.S.W.). For months past the
Mammoth has had its plant at work on the
deposit on the mountain crest. The lifting
of the machinery in the first place was a big
job. The position of the plant also meant
a four-mile water pipe-line from a spring-
supplied dam, which fell below requirements
during the drought. The tapping of a
creek en route has since given enough water.
Mammoth has thus to meet transport charges
for good. The Mt. Tennyson co. has taken
the course of bringing the stone to the mill.
Its plant has been put at the foot of the
mountain, up the side of which about 1700 ft.
of aerial ropeway climbs 600 ft. The stone
is run into hoppers to the loading station,
and is moved along by its own weight, at a
calculated cost of less than 3d. a ton. The
water supply is close at hand —the creek
which the Mammoth has tapped further up
—while the main western line lies only a
mile off.
* * * *
Mt. Cuthbert, Cloncurry (Q.), is continu-
ing development work on several of its
widely separated leases. The parallel ore
body at the 150 ft. level in the Ivalkadoon
has been driven 139 ft. to the north, the lode
beina- sft. wide and showing 16 p.c. copper.
South, the drive is in 99ft. in country.
Prospects are good at the 250 ft. level, for the
north drive is in 60ft. and the ore broken is
going 10 p.c. A crosscut from the main
shaft will also reach the ore body at the
350 ft. level, which is the deepest in the
mine. A little work is also being done on
the Orphan and Little Wonder leases, and
a new hauling-shaft is down 28ft. at the
Mighty Atom.
* * * *
The osmiridium scratchers in the Speck
have lately been up against an old trouble
—they cannot find a market. Nominally
the metal is quoted at £lO to £l2 per oz„
but no one seems to want to buy. Twelve
months ago the Speck was over-run with
agents, and fountain-pen manufacturers,
electrical manufacturers, etc., all anxious to
give up to £3O an ounce.
From R. H. Crozier :—•
“Wild Cat” (B. 15/5/’l9) remarks that because
the promoters of the Colossal Gold Mining Co.,
Ravenswood (N.Q.), are taking 90 paid-up shares in
a register of 340 shares, equal to 26.4 p.c., “N.
Queensland hasn’t forgotten the old trick's of float-
ing.” If this may be regarded as a trick it would
appear to be rather better known to Southern pro-
moters, as in a par. above The Bulletin gives par-
ticulars of a new Tasmanian venture in which the pro-
moters acquire no less than 37.5 p.c. paid-up interest
in the total register. However, apart from the leases,
on the acquisition and examination of which a con-
siderable sum has been expended, and which con-
tain a large tonnage of ore immediately available
without cost for development, the promoters of the
Colossal have obtained an option over a 35-head
battery, complete in every respect, with Wilflev
tables, cyanide plant and all auxiliary equipment,
which will be handed over to the co. without profit
for £2OOO. This plant would cost, under present
conditions, in the vicinity of £30,000 to erect, and
represents an asset of very considerable value. The
fact that this plant is available, that such a large
tonnage of ore can be mined by quarrying methods,
and that the supplies of fuel, water and labor need
cause no concern practically assures the success of
the venture, which has every prospect of developing
into one of the largest low-grade propositions in Aus-
tralia. Laboratory tests indicate that 85 p.c. of the
gold is recoverable by amalgamation and cyanidation,
reduced the residue to sd. per ton.


THE UNDESIRED HUN.
ARRIVAL: “I’m looking for a place called Hell. Can you put me on the track?”
JUNIOR STOKER (after a glance): “Nc, Keep moving.”


-T'-vgl
TaU bD i *
fcptlA'j*
B-Syowfv
PERTH AND LONOOK
Use a genuine, high-grade
Australian Product in
FAULDING’S
Medicinal
EPSOM SALTS.
SPECIALLY REFINED AND
GUARANTEED PURE.
Sold in loz. Packets, lib. Cartons, and Bulk
in lcwt. cases.
LOOK FOR THE BLUE LABEL.
Manufactured and refined in Australia by
F. H. FAULDING & CO.,
Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane
and London.
Deaf?
■\\ ithout good hearing' you are greatly handi-
capped, and the fact is brought home to you
every day. Why remain deaf? The
Acousticon
10 Days’
FREE TRIAL
will safely and surely enable you to hear.
Over 330,000 delighted users, including the
Prime Minister, Mr. Hughes, who is using
his “Acousticon” at the Peace Conference.
Write for 10 Days’ Free Trial. No deposit,
no obligation. Convince yourself at our
expense, and DON’T STAY DEAF! New stocks
arrived.
T smtrn S t o r e 102 Dakingr House. SYDNEY
L/uillowl Service ””•> Olderfleet, Collins St.,MELB
N.Z.: John Procter, 200 High St.. Christc’h.
W.A.: 11. Little & Go., 851 Hay Street, Perth,
THE
Hotel Sydney
(SYDNEY)
Is one of the largest, most modern
and best equipped in Australia.
It is situated opposite the Railway Station
and is central to everywhere.
ACCOMMODATION FOR 400 GUESTS.
Quiet, Cool and Comfortable.
Hot and Cold Water, Day and Night, in every
Bedroom.
Half an acre of Glorious Roof
Garden.
Tariff from 12/0 per day.
Have you Lunched or Dined at the “Sydney” ?
Management E. T. CHEESEMAN.
ANTICIPATED RESUMPTION OF
TRADE.
It is estimated that in August last Great
Britain held only two months’ supply of her
normal home consumption of raw cocoa, the
cause being the same that keeps Australian
wheat in Australia —shortage of shipping,
for there are areat accumulations of cocoa
in all the producing countries. Now that
the war is over, these conditions should not
obtain for long. The British Government
is bound, on every consideration, to remove
all obstacles to the resumption of trade at
the earliest possible moment. We may
therefore hope shortly to learn that the pro-
hibition of export of cocoa and chocolate
from Great Britain has been removed, when,
acting in concert. Australia will doubtless
remove such bar as exists at this end also,
and so far open the way for Cadbury’s and
Bournville Cocoas and Chocolates to take
their old positions in the shops aj^iin.
The latest issue to hand of the Boubn-
ville Works Magazine gives the total of
Bournville men on war service as 4603. of
whom about half remain on the firm’s books
as employees. They also refer to the
further grant by the firm of a capital sum
to provide pensions for the widows of pen-
sioners equal in amount to half those re-
ceived by the pensioner himself. The warm
reception given to this additional gift
( £60.000 in all) was the most striking
feature of the general meeting of the Bourn-
ville Works Pension Fund. One of the
speakers said that it meant the greatest
possible relief to the workers, one of whose
deepest anxieties in life had been relieved
by its provision, viz., that the wife, if surviv-
ing him. would be provided for in her old
age.— Advt.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Governor Galway, of South Aus., who is
retiring from the cocked-hat trade, has had
12 vears of service. He signs off George
V.’s duty-book in September.
GUSTAVE WAETHERS, appointed violin-
ist at Melb. University Conservatorium.
•C. N. Mackenzie, a son of Tom Macken-
zie, High Commissioner for Maoriland, is
the guest of Admiral Jellicoe on board the
warship New Zealand. He was in the first
Maoriland contingent, and lost the sight of
both eyes in action at Gallipoli. While in
London, in spite of his blindness, Macken-
zie edited and produced a paper which was
devoted to matters concerning the Maori-
land soldiers.
Hobart recently threw bouquets at a one-
man show of fine stuff produced by Jack Cato,
a Tassy boy recently returned from an eight
years’ drift around. He is the youngest
fellow of the Royal Photographic Society of
Britain, and is said to be the only one with
that coveted degree practising portraiture in
Australia. Cato has expressed Central
Africa in art as Cazneaux has pictured Aus-
tralia. He can also express another picture,
radiating with tropical heat, of the pest
and pestilence he encountered in the recent
German rebellion in that fever-stricken
country.
Septimus Burt, K.C., senior partner of
the ancient Perth law-firm of Stone and
Burt, died last week after an extended ill-
ness. In the days when the Leg. Council
was the only Westralian Par-
liament and open voting pre-
vailed for the election of such
members as were not nominees.
Burt held down a seat in the
House for several years. Two
members of the old firm went
to the Chief Justice’s seat —the
late Archibald Burt, father of
Septimus, who was his seventh
son, and Edward Stone, now
Lieut.-Governor. Stone, shortly
after his admission to the Bar,
in 1565, led the Reform League,
which had as its chief aim the
institution of Responsible Gov-
ernment. Burt, long afterwards,
had the portfolio of Attor-
ney-General in the first Ministry under the
new system, formed by Bigjolin Forrest.
“Billy T.”: A Melbourne barrister who
was in Cliidley’s confidence imparts a few
interesting facts in connection with that
quaint dresser. Chidley was at one time an
actor in Australia, and, under a stage-name
and in company with his wife, described as a
big, beautiful blonde, ran a show which
profited moderately in the smalls—about Vic.
mainly. Another fact that should give some
of our smart Alecks gravely to think is that
Chid, was a noble Roman of exceptional
strength, and a trained athlete who had
killed a man in Adelaide in fair fight and
had stood his trial for manslaughter there.
He came upon a man viciously maltreating
a woman, and his defence was that he had
every reason to believe the woman’s life was
endangered. This was supported by evi-
and Chidley was acquitted; but the
experience left its mark on him, and he said
to his Melbourne lawyer: “When I am gibed
at in the street by these young fellows, I
always call to mind that I have killed one. I
don’t want to kill another.” Any reader of
this who may have scoffed at the big fellow
in the little short shirt at close quarters can
now ruminate on the fact that he was in a
way toying with the tail of a tiger.
“A.F.C.”: Ifieut.-Colonel Oswald Watt,
who was in command of the Australian Inly-
ing Corps in the place where the war was,
is a Riverina pastoralist who was caught in
the whirlpool and joined up just where
he happened to be —which was France.
When the A.F.C. was formed he was per-
mitted to take his numerous FTench decora-
tions over to the Australians, and became
the first O.C. of No. 2 Squadron. There
was no more popular O.C. in France.
Filter, when he took charge of the Austra-
lian Training Wing, pilots were no longer
sent across as soon as they could tell the
joy-stick from the throttle, but were given
a thorough training and developed the habit
of bagging Huns from the jump-off.
Riverina will be thrilled if he brings back
his little “White Angel” Avro machine,
which was the pride of the Wing. With
his experience he is the man most fitted to
take charge of the newly-formed Australian
Air Force.
Lieut.-Col. B. C. Freyberg, the Maori-
lander who so greatly distinguished himself
in the field, winning the V.C. and the D.S.O.
(three times), has joined the Grenadier
Guards as a captain, with the brevet rank
of lieut.-colonel and temporary rank of
brigadier-general.
Dead of the ’flu at North Sydney, after
four years’ active service on various Fronts,
Dr. (Ifieut.-Col.) John Basil St. Vincent
Welch, D.S.O. He was second son of the
late J. St. Vincent Welch, for many years a
leading insurance man in Sydney. The
Colonel was one of the first to go to the
Front, and only returned a few months ago
to civil practice. Four Welch brothers were
in the medical line, three qualified physicians
and one a chemist. All three medicoes took
a turn in the war.
The most widely known victim of pneu-
monic so far in Adelaide is Archie Camp-
bell Magarey. one of the many doctors
in that notable medical family. He had a
brilliant career at St. I’eter’s school, the
University and in I.ondon, and saw war ser-
vice in New Guinea. Only 34 at the end.
As a Victorian Minister Peacock occup'ed
as many offices as Griffith, High Court C.J.,
did when in politics. Alec was Honorary
Minister. under Munro, and then in subse-
quent Cabinets held the Education, Chief
Sec-retary’s, Labor, Postmaster-General, Pre-
mier’s and Treasurer’s portfolios. At times
he acted for every Minister except the
Attorney-General and Solicitor-General. He
drew the line at law.
The appointment of Major I. Isaacson, of
St. Kilda (Vic.), as officer commanding on
the troopship which is to convey released
German internees back to the Faderland, has
aroused a good deal of adverse comment in
military circles. Although Isaacson left
Australia in command of a fighting unit, he
was engaged in administrative work while
he was abroad, and the reasonable growl
is that the O.C.’s position, which carries a
good salary and better “prospects,” should
have been given to a combatant officer.
GLASS-CONSCIOUS.
“No ladies served in this bar, madam."
“Pardon me, but I'm not a lidy — l'm only
one of yous!"
“E.G.”: Brigadier-General G. Ramaciotti,
who looks much less vigorous than when he
was military commandant in N. S. Wales,
will shortly retire from the position of
Inspector-General of Defence Administration.
He will afterwards revisit his beloved Italy,
where he is almost as much at home as. in
Melbourne or Sydney. Since his appoint-
ment as Inspector-General, he has done good
work. He was formerly chairman of the
Commission which inquired into the question
of Home Service personnel. Substantial re-
ductions were effected as the result of that
Commission’s recommendations, many super-
fluous officers and men being ejected from
nice comfy billets.
M. M. Maughan, Director of Education
in S.A., has resigned his office, after a
long struggle with ill health. He is only 62
and much better than he was a little while
ago, but medical opinion is firm against his
getting into harness again. He was in'the
old Training College under Madley, and has
been, like that instructor of youth, a keen
soldier in his spare time. The successorship
to his billet seems a very open thing. The
Minister of Education has given the Adel-
aide dailies what is practically a guarantee
that he will not go outside the State for a
man.
(’apt. Keith Calvert, of the Middlesex
Hussars, is back at Dreeite, the parental
roost near Colac, with an M.C. on his chest.
Most of his war-work was done in France
and Belgium.
Although the late Sam Winter, boss of
the Melbourne Herald, did more than any
other man in the State to keep the A.N.A.
going in Victoria, his name was not men-
tioned the other night when the veterans of
the past were telling the young lions of the
present how hard they had worked. But for
Winter, Red Head Jones and other A.N.A.
enthuiasts on his staff, who puffed on the
embers with the bellow r s of publicity, the
organisation would have been in the ashpit, at
any time up to 1886.
“Bad Australian’s” friend:—
Jacques Lebaudy, “King of the Sahara,” shot re-
cently in U.S.A., was the queerest mixture
of artfulness, damfoolishness and plain cussed-
ness I ever struck. About three years ago* he
fled out of Chile after raising Cain in Santiago over
some Bolivian and Chilian mines in which he was
interested, and established his temporary headquar-
ters at a pub just across the Argentine frontier in the
heart of the Andes. He put in his time sending long
cables to more or less eminent people- in Europe and
the States and careering around the settlement on a
mule trailing a lasso after him with which
he amused himself trying to rope the casual way-
farer. One afternoon he came galloping into the
corral where a bunch of transport mules were kept,
and in his wild career nearly ran over one of the
arrieros kiddies. \\ hen I remonstrated with him he
cursed me with a great and comprehensive anathema
in four different languages, and when I threatened
to tear him apart from the other mule and deal with
him, he just went mad. “You tell me zat you put ze
boot into me. Me! Jack Lebaudy! By gar, I tell
you zat I can haf you keel in two meenit for talk lak
zat.” Then very venomously and slowly: “Aaa-haa,
you dam’ Inglis’ pore. I weel scr-r-rew your dam’
Inglis’ head off —so! And your bodee, I weel t’ro.v
lieem down ze montane ze same lak one dam’ skonk.”
Then he gathered up his lasso and fled up the moun-
tain-side to the pub. He came to me a few davs
later with a business proposition. “Zey do not treat
me too good, zese Bolivianos. You haf b’en long
tarn zere. You know zem all right. Zey are a lot
of dam’ indios. Me, I do not lak zem. You, Henree,
will get four or five liondred of your fr’en's—zese
Chilian bandidos—togezzer. I weel fin’ ze rifle an’
ze machine-gon an’ ze ozzer sings. Zen we go to
Bolivia an’ w’at you call play Hell. An’ me, I weel
be ze Presidente; an’ you, you weel be my Chief
Ministro an’ mak ze good time wiz your bandidos.
W’at you say?” 1 said: “No.” “But, by gar, 1
require you. I deman’ yon do zis t’ing. T pay you
w’at you lak—more zan you lak. Eet ees all
arrange.” It was not “all arrange.” So he galloped
off to think out a fresh scheme. Two days later he
came to me waving his arms and spitting like a
demented, tomcat. “I weel not stay in zis dam’
place. I weel get out. Why do I act lak zis? Ze
grub in ze hotel I cannot eat lieem. 1 am hongree,
veree hongree in ze night-tarn’. 1 get up. I go to zee
cookshop. Ze chef he ees not zere. I tak ze stek, ye
chop. I go down to ze salon. I light ze fire in ze
salon. I am cook ze chop. Ze managaire he come in
liees pyjam’. He ea’ch me by ze slack of ze pant
an’ he pelt me —me —Jack Lebaudy—Sacrc Dieu —he
pelt me out in ze patio, an’ 1 keek ze door all ze
night. By gar, I buy ze dam’ hotel an’ blow heein
in’ ze managaire to blazes.” Then he darted
olf to make arrangements for a special train to Chile,
which he got about four hours later; and the last
I heard of him was that he was grabbed for criminal
libel and clapped in the cooling-house immediately
on his arrival in Los Andes.
“75”: Tom Bannister, senior member of
the Victorian committee of the Returned
Billjims’ League, who was at the Landin ’
upon Gallipoli, has returned a cripple. Flo
served, also, in the S’African unpleasantness.
As a result of his battling in the Big War
he has undergone 23 operations; but these
trifles have not prevented him qualifying for
a job as a wireless officer.
Major V. M. Newland. 0.8. E., M.C.,
D.C.M., who recently came ashore at Adel-
aide from East Africa, where he took an
HEAV. the
Australian
Official War
Correspondent,
returned from the
Front.
active part in the
campaign against
the Flun. is a son
of Simpson New-
land, late Treas-
urer of the State.
Major Newland
went to the Boer
War in 1899, and
later pioneered in
British East
Africa. lie is an
old St. Peter’s
boy. The college
has a record of
over 1000 ex-
scholars on the
great war roll.
One hundred and
seventeen of them
gained distinction
for meritorious
conduct, and 168
died in the service
of humanity.
Dr. Edward S. Simpson, who acquired the
degree of Doctor of Science the other dav
conferred by the Perth University, is the first
graduate to complete the Science Course
there. Fie is the State’s leading mineralo-
gist.
CROIX DE GUERRE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
"You Have heard, of course, that Eric got the
C roix de Guerre.”- —Extract from, letter.
A story comes from “over there,”
A story of red days that were —
My brother won the Croix de Guerre.
So in the household book of fame,
Where kindly praise outweighs the blame,
Is written now the soldier’s name.
The youth I knew was shy of dreams,
Afraid of what he thought extremes,
Upholding rather “is” than “seems.”
Hut here it is “for Valor” writ;
And valor is a dream, close-knit
With all the high extremes that flit
from God to man and man to God,
Wherever man goes triumph-shod
Along white paths before untrod.
My brother’s grandsons, too, will read
The written story of his deed,
His answer to the day’s black need.
And to the camp beneath the gums
from far away to me it comes,
Ail echo of the silenced drums.
By long sea pathways wide and free,
The story finds its way to me.
I look a little back and see
Tim boy with soul of honor rare- -
'I he tall, gay soldier debonair—-
Young Erie, with his Croix de Guerre!
x.s.vv.
HILARY LOFTING.


ii
mem
TOBACCO /
CIGARETTES
u
w
$
w \
X
x\
vm.
//
m
// //
A
zm
r /
/ /,
/ / /
t /
/ /
0.
// /V
/ //
A
ll\,K
V,
raa
,N
z
, ' «
Ok^.
IF
STS
m"'
~
1 :■/ ;i '
P
Ml
m
m
mu
<* r
f /
X;
■XXX
me*
m''-
jfiwH
The Brand for the peaceful resident
on land or the men who police the
high seas.
Capstan Cigarettes are without
a rival for quality and value, and can
be had in Three Strengths, viz.—Mild,
Medium and Full.
Capstan Tobacco js unapproach-
able for its fragrance and excellence.
Packed in Three Strengths, viz.—Mild,
Medium and Full. For those who
prefer to cut up their own Tobacco it
can also be obtained in Plug form.
W. D. 9 H. O. WILLS
THE RENOWNED FIRM OF TOBACCO AND CIGARETTE MANUFACTURERS.
A GOOD JUDGE WILL USE
CLM N) pipes
400
pipe Guararn,


•
fl it USED
IT 05ED
WATCH your
BRUSH and
COMB.
They first indicate
the sickening stage
of the hair.
Dandruff’ and loose hairs are the warning signs on the way to baldness and the
immediate need to cleanse the scalp, remove the dandruff and keep the hair vigorous
and healthy.
John Strange Winter’s hair foods noj£odly
will prevent baldness, stop falling hair and dandruff.
Obtainable all leading Chemists and Departmental Stores.
Send to JOHN STRANGE WINTER (London, Paris, Rome), 2(5 Jamieson Street, Sydney,
for Booklet.
Melt oman
HIGH-CLASS
Creams
?r<i
Pastes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Aerents—
WARREN & STRANG LTD.
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne.
E. DROWN © SONS LONDON
AGENCIES • ALL - OVER • THE • WORLD
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England.
America or the Continent. Hath
De Euxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHEIt.
Managing Direi to-.
SOCIETY
Australia has had two great thrills with-
in the past week, although it shared one—
Hawker’s rescue—with the wide world. The
first was the sailing into the home ports of
the dauntless Australian destroyers and the
cruiser Melbourne from the far seas where,
for four years, they had been snuffling about
like terriers for the hidden rats. Great was
the welcome from Darwin to Port Phillip 1
Then followed the blow of the announce-
ment that the daring Victorian airman.
Hawker, and Grieve, his companion on the
flight across the Atlantic, had been given
up for lost. For days Australia grieved as
if each of her citizens had lost a son. May-
be Providence was touched, for. suddenly,
on Monday, news flashed through of the
rescue; and if Providence had been handy
the Commonwealth would have made it its
eternal President, with special permission to
live out of Canberra.
On the day the Australian destroyers
arrived in Port Jackson, a Digger,
giving the fleet a. welcome, rolled up George-
street. and bumped a general, or. maybe, it-
was an admiral. The soldier swung to atten-
tion (or thereabouts), saluted and pro-
ceeded to count the color ribbon-tags on the
officer’s tunic: “One. two, three {hid), four
—-and y’ earned every one of them,
Put it there, Digger!” ~
BILLJAC'K COMES HOME AND HAS A
DAY OFF.
“Hamer’s” communication: —
Discipline burst its bands on Armistice
Day, and no really serious attempt has been made to
re-establish it. The authorities, as delays in demobil-
isation occur, are getting very “windy” about the
possibility of outbreaks that arc more than disregard
to mere military order. “Orders” are full of
explanations of delays and appeals to the men to
“play the game.” In one camp morning parades,
which are only attended by men who wish to hear
the reading of any boat-rolls, are only a mob-like
muster; and, while the officer reads the orders-of-the-
day, the men form little rings to play two-up, crown-
and-ancbor and other national games. Generally
there is nothing over the odds in the men’s behavior,
but they simply will not recognise any necessity for
the continuation of military routine. To keep men
at work on the London Headquarters it was found
necessary to offer extra ration-,money, the rate now
paid being 6s. a day. Occasionally, when the food
in any camp is bad, or restrictions are put upon
leave, the threat is circulated that the camp will be
burnt down unless matters are improved; and this
usually brings about the visit of an agitated general
with more appeals about playing the game and pro-
mises of redress, which are generally kept. There
are the elements of disorder amongst all these im-
patient men, and the officers responsible for their
good behavior feel by no means happy.
The venomous legacy left behind by Budd.
the South Australian murderer lately
hanged, is not to have any effect, appa-
rently. After swearing throughout that he
knew nothing of the murder of the man
whose body was found buried under his
motor-shed, he left, at the last, a written
statement that another man whom he named
was equally guilty. S.A. Government put
detective Allchurch on to the matter. His
report, which will probably be taken as
final, is that after full and wide inquiry, lie
Cannot find “a tittle of evidence” connecting
the other man (whose name meanwhile has
been freely mentioned in the newspapers)
with the matter. On the other hand, he
has come across a lot of fresh evidence mak-
ing clearer than ever the guilt of Budd.
* * * *
Blank, the fattest Victorian officer who
lias been repatriated in bulk to date, was
testimonialised the other evening to the
accompaniment of six courses and an after-
math of copious toastiug. The menu-card
contained an appropriate triplet selected
from Tennyson :
Back from the jaws of death,
Back from the mouth of lie'll,
Rode the six hundredweight!
“Snell”: It's not true that the poor know
nothing of economics. I cot first-hand in-
formation on the subject from Mrs. Canty
and Mrs. Breen, who were having a heart-
to-heart talk in our right-of-way the other
morning. Mrs. Canty is about sft. 9in.
high, and as far round as a picnic-
marquee. Mrs. Breen is small, thin and
hen-like. Mrs. Canty commented with un-
due familiarity on Mrs. Breen’s black eye.
"Well.” she said. “I would let a dirty bit iv
a shrimp iv a husban’ like that wan iv yours
bate me, I would!” “And where’s yer own
husban’, Mrs. Canty?” asked Mrs. Breen.
“In bed. is lie? You beat him, you did, till
lie can’t go to work for a week. Breen beats
me and he’s off to his work on Monday morn-
in'. and not losing a shift at all. I’ll take
me own black eye, thankin’ you. Mrs. Canty,
with the high cost of livin’ and all.”
* * * *
, “D. 8.” : After a week’s self-imposed foot-
slogging up in the
Buffalo (Vic.) dis-
trict, I am convinced
that, without the
country pub, travel-
ling in the Back-
blocks would be des-
perate. Starting from
Mansfield, w« mapped
out a route to touch
at a bush inn each
night. A thirsty
gap of 20 miles
between them made
me want to start
a correspondence-
school, on the subject
of Common or Gar-
den Horsesense, for
all the cranks in the
Commonwealth. On
the road between
Wood's Point and
Warburton, in a now
almost uninhabited
area since the mines
have petered out. 1
sheltered at a little
ex-inn. Its license
had been recently
closed down. In con-
sequence one of the choicest bits of A ic-
tovian mountain-scenery is cut off to the
average nature-seeker.
* * * *
The Sydney Water and Sewerage Board
last week sued a citizen for 7s. Bd. rates
due. She had been dead, as it was proved,
for 14 years. The grave has its victory on
occasions.
* * * *
“J.G.”: Maria Lavell, who succeeded in
divorcing her husband in Melbourne the
other day, is Victoria’s latest womamman.
She had for years passed as a male and did
very heavy graft. Unlike another of the
same type of woman, De Lacy Evans, of the
early Bendigo goldfields, Maria acquired a
real husband. Evans was “married” to and
lived for many years with another woman.
Marion Edwards, who created a stir
a few years ago, is, as far as is known, still
wearing the trousers. Another notable in-
stance was the Elmore district girl, Gorge a-
sen, who lived as a boy and man. She suc-
ceeded in bluffing a doctor and got into the
Victorian Mounted Rifles as a member of
the Elmore troop. She was a member of it
till she died.
* * * *
“Hamer”: When Private Caudle returns
home Mrs. Caudle will have to be patient
under an administration of some of her own
medicine. The war has loosened the nerves
of many soldiers, and developed the habit of
talking in their sleep in many war-stressed
TIME AND PLACE.
CREDULA: “Of course you believe a man's character can be told by his handt ”
SKEPTICUS : " Certainly, especially if it is found in another man's pocket."
men. In the average hut iu the repatriation
camp, where, at present, the men are mainly
those who have struck illness or wounds, or
have had several years of war-service, the
music starts shortly after lights-out. A
man near the stove stirs restlessly in his
blankets and remarks casually “Isn’t it a
blanker?” —the Diggers’ favorite description
of pretty well everything. That begins the
conversation, which continues in fits ami
starts throughout the night, consisting of
sighs, exclamations, and scattered remarks
about girls, shells, tucker, officers and various
other important or unimportant details.
Probably the mutterings about girls will
occasion most trouble when the men get back
to the connubial couch.
# * *
“Uckle”: My Digger brother and a cob-
ber went into a watchmaker’s in France to
get a watch repaired. Asked if she under-
stood English the lady in charge replied,
“Verra leetle.” “Well,” said the cobber,
“me flamin’ turnip’s gone bung!” And then
she didn’t compree.
* * * *
The Man on the Seat’s yarn :
“I dunno what to think of that new bloke up et
the ’ouse,” said the one with the yellow feather.
“The feller they’re callin’ Pincher? He s awful
’ansom an’ perlite,” ;
“Oh, he’s that all right. Yesdee when me an
Mord was cornin’ back from the market, me with
two bags of vegetables, a parcel of meat an’ a new
’at shape, and Mord with more, we ’ad the luck to
get on a tram pack jambed, an’ o’ course we has
to stand. This chap is there afore us, standin’ too.
Up goes his lid like a nob, an’ sez he in his comic
way, ‘Tike my seat, ladies.’ ”
“That’s ’im all right. He's a trick.”
“Well, when it comes to payin’, me bein’ loaded
down, I has a job gettin’ at me purse, when Pincher
chips in agen: ‘ ’Low me,’ sez he; ‘l’ll pay it for
yeh.’ ”
“Didn’t I say he was perlite?” cried the girl in
the pink blouse, full of admiration for the gentle-
manly Pincher.
“Yes, you did, Sis. But wait. Hanged if be
don't take the purse out of me ’and. open it, dig
out a sprat, an’ sez he to the conductor: ‘Three
tupneys, boss.’ He perlitely pays fer us out of
me own purse, an’ ’as the brassy face to pay for
hisself too!”
Sis was obviously crestfallen. “’E shouldn’t ’a
done that,” she said: “that’s dirt.”
“Dirt, easy. When I gets ’ome you cud ’a’
knocked me dead with a feather. A arf quid I
’ad in me purse was gone. His jills ’ad pinched
it.”
Sis perked up; she looked quite radiant. Her
ideal had vindicated himself. “Ah,” she said,
“that’s not so paltry!”
* * * *
“Riverina”: In an estaminet in Steen-
wercfe at certain hours a blind boy pianist
used to play music that brought a reverent
hush over the assembled Diggers. After his
magic had soothed us and refined every
thought, he would burst into song and
bring us back to earth with a thud. That
boy had the most alarming repertoire of
trench ballads of any singer I met out there.
All the gems that the Tommies, Aussies
and Kiwis had perpetrated were stored in
his head; and., probably because of his blind-
ness. his memory had no holes in it. The
singing of those songs was the signal for a
"join-in” by the company, and as Marie and
Louise tripped round with the bock, tin
also occasionally lent a voice, and blithely
informed the boys that they "hadn’t seen the
Kaiser for the h—l of a time.”
Slightly under £4 a week is the screw
which the Vic. Government is offering to
any young lawyer in the service who is tit
to take on the job of conducting prosecutions
in courts of petty sessions. The maximum
of the class is £240; so that only a rise of
£36 can be looked forward to with confidence.
Of course there is the chance of getting valu-
able experience, as the young sawbones does
when he becomes associated with a first-rate
family doctor, but that’s an excuse all
sweaters can put forward.
If Victoria’s aggregate John Hop doesn’t
presently follow the prevailing fashion of
“striking” it won’t be the fault of the State’s
Government. During the armistice celebra-
tions something like 6000 hours of overtime
were put in by the undermanned Melbourne
force. Chief Sec. Bowser’s locum tenens,
IRONMONGERY OF NO VALUE.
MAY: "Did George bring you back any war
souvenirs?”
BELLE: “Yes, a bronze cross.”
MAY: “How cheap! He might at least have
made it a jet necklace.”
McWhae. had an idea of allowing time off
to make up for this., but as that would mean
leaving the city practically unguarded alto-
gether, he has decided to pay for the extra
time at ordinary rates. If the ordinary
trade-unionist were treated thus there would
be a first-class shindy right off.
(Continued on page 18.)
EVERY PLACE HAS ITS POINTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Matches are made in Heaven —so declare
Parsons and caterers with fervor rare.
But, desolate amidst electric light,
I often wonder if we’ll find them there.
How awkward if the angels should forget
To have such needful trifles ready set!
Whereas in Hell, now, one would never lack
The wherewithal to light a cigarette.
VICTORIA.
SYD C.


M
SB
a
S>B°B
nr.
a
y
m
&
,/,]
a
a
x-f
P*
rS
Wtvj
n
5
■•••llll-IMII'lll’IIIII-l-ll-l-HII
■•■•«■ a a B i i B i i i a B i i i i i
X
y
\>
K
Si
•'■•■•■•■•■•■•■•■•■•■•■•■•■•■•■•■•■•■'■•a
When absolute perfection is sought in Pliouo-
t) ‘; graphs, your search is fully rewarded and
your desires fully gratified when you acquire an
m m
Then you have music faultlessly reproduced,
rich and clear in tone, bringing a wealth of
musical enjoyment hitherto believed impossible.
HE popularity and success of the Vocalion is due to the superiority
and effectiveness of its patented features, the ingenious inventions
and practical improvements that combine to make it the greatest
of all Phonographs. These exclusive advantages include ;
The Reproducer
Constructed with utmost precision, the Vocalion reproduces
every sound-wave, with life-like fidelity. Its diaphragm,
sensitive to even a breath and the heavy vibration of a full
military band, creates all tones with sweetness and faithful
quality.
The Graduola
This important and revolutionary tone-controlling device
immediately places all other Phonographs at a disadvantage,
for no other can offer such a privilege of playing a record
yourself with every shade of expression and tone color that
your musical feeling dictates.
The Tone Chamber
After much experimenting by acoustic scientists, this
highly-improved feature was designed, embodying a system
of tensionised wood and metal resonators, from which the tone
produced is unapproached for characteristic quality and
natural color.
The Automatic Stop
is a mechanical advantage allowing anyone to enjoy the
record from start to finish, undisturbed.
SEND IN THIS COUPON
and yon will be posted gratis an interesting Catalog, giving full particulars
and prices, and explaining the easy terms of purchasing an Aeolian Vocation.
Name
Address
The Pianola Company Pty„ Ltd
384 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at 252 Collins Street, Melbourne ; 436 Queen Street, Brisbane ;
58 Rundle Street, Adelaide.


lIM THESE SERIOUS EPIDEMIC DAYS
Get CLEMENTS TONIC for your Blood
Th~ e "!* ° f lnfection and greater powers of resistance to epidemic attacks.
~ purer the b,ood the sponger the body. Epidemic disease thrives on the debilitated system.
to KrtSM&J it N„ Cl Z C L^Vffor;i n ,VK, t l f. ke n eVerS ', C "'' <!0 ! th «" s <-l'c S and ward off to their greatest
tion of health and the greatest powers of resistance to anv invading an / nndue risk, and the person who has the best condi-
—----- ~ ” resistance to _force, .whether it is epidemic disease, privation, oppressive
tj • , i || , AV pi 1 v Upplcool» v
it is the old story m a new way of the soldier well armed;
Js‘VM,i vo l; ui rcMSiauutJ to l
nS ’ v^? rr i es minor illness, is best fortified against it.
6 ls ,f.^ ie l ( l^ ( l I?’ 011 . 1 attack of destructive and destroying forces. * » —*—*
and the blo n od c “I'a’nd p^'stoaidno^ >” keeping the nerves sound
well, has a palliative effect on the bowels? stimulates“he li rSS wS. y a the ? enei ’ al health * rt toAes up the stomach a.
largely a blood and nerve tnedicine, and .’he"",Resent T ° n ‘ C **
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle, N.S.W.
,?®iU‘.t£ r ° m yOUr Chemist To-day. Use it as the Pure Blood Remedy.
Acting Minister for Defence Russell re-
ports that the famous cargo steamer River
Clyde, from which the troops landed while
she was beached under heavy fire at “V”
beach, Gallipoli, will have been salved and
despatched to England about the time this
edition appears. The distinctive features
of her transport equipment will be retained
and she will reach home with the high
bridge, derricks and gangways which made
her a conspicuous figure at the Landing.
Some years ago the River Clyde loaded
wheat in Australia, and if she rolls this
way again there’ll be a Digger or two who’ll
want a day off.
* * * *
“Peg-Leg”: Asked a big member of the
N. S. Wales Alliance about the million
pounds to be spent in forcing prohibition on
Australia. He laughed at me, and said
that it would be a simple matter to send
the place dry if they had that much, but the
entire fighting fund of the Prohibitionists in
the State was less than £lOOO. Their
only chance was if some big commercial con-
cern backed the movement for its own selfish
ends. The people who put up the money to
send U.S.A. dry were mainly manufacturers
of cordials and confectionery, with the Ilearst
papers to assist them ; but there are no simi-
lar concerns big enough to swing the pendu-
lum that way here.
* * * *
“A.R.”: It happened just before the
armistice. At one of the bases in France
there were three ribald Australians among a
big batch of Tommies. The corporal who
took charge addressed the men: “As the
Camp Commandant will be inspecting this
draft, when I call the roll answer smartly
to your name, saying ‘Here, Corporal.’
Understand?” Then the Commandant
arrived and the roll-call commenced. One
after another the Tommies sprang to atten-
tion and answered “Here, Corporal.” The
first Australian name came in stentorian
tones, “Driver Yarra!” The Aussie woke
from a daydream of lost beers: “Here!”
“Here what?” roared the Commandant in
his court-martial voice. “Here we are
again, hooray!” replied the cheerful repro-
bate.
* * * *
“Silas”: Dennie, the younger son of the
family, had been away from the dairy-farm
on his first trip to Melbourne. He came
back displaying no enthusiasm. The elder
brother he had been staying with had broken
away from cow years before and become a
confirmed suburbanite, and Dennie had been
entirely out of his element. “Aw, I dunno,”
he said, “I don’t care fer
■ Melbin. An’ Jim he’s
too stuck up fer me. Too
stuck up altogether.
’Struth, he drives a
pramberlater!”
A BLESSED RELIEF.
“But, Uncle, how’ll I know when I've been
a wicked hoy?”
“Your conscience will tell you, Charlie.”
“Oh, that’s bonza. I thought it—it —it
might tell you!”
“Yal”: The average person (and it is sur-
prising how many are average persons) re-
gards an A.I.F. officer as a sort of Croesus.
In England this conception is general; yet
really the Tommy officer is much better off
than the Australian who looks like
a millionaire because he is free
with his money and hates bargain-
ing. The Aussie officer’s pay is
at a consolidated rate of 17s. 6d.
per diem plus 3s. 6d. field allow-
ance for 2nd-lieutenant and lieuten-
ant of all arms, whilst the Tommy
officer gets a specific rate of pay
per diem according to
the branch of the service
he adorns. On top of his
pay there are various
allowances —field, mess,
kit, fuel, light, quarters,
corps, command, separa-
tion, sustenance, special-
ist, instructional, or
staff; and they mount up.
A 2nd-lieutenant of
British infantry rising
from the ranks gets 2s.
per diem extra plus £5O
kit allowance; if married
with two children he
draws on active service
about 265. per day, be-
sides wound gratuities or
blood money, wound pen-
sions and a service gra-
tuity, the last named
amounting to 124 days’
pay for the first year and
62 days’ pay for every
additional year on ser-
vice. A lieutenant of English Engineers
averages about Bs. per day more than the
Australian lieut.—and more still if he is
in the army of occupation.
* * * *
“Dial Sight”: Billjim has no superstitious
fear in his make-up. A well-soaked unit on
the way to the trenches halted alongside a
French farm for the night. Cover was
scanty, so two. Diggers, spotting a roofed-
in conveyance in an adjacent yard, crawled
in and spent a warm and comforting night.
The luxurious pair was even provided with
glass sides to the sleeping car, to gaze out
on the sodden landscapes. It was the village
hearse 1
* * * *
“Sarum” : My own considerable experience
of the English shopkeeper is that the war
or something has turned him into a bowel-
less thief; and I found that he was readier
to rook the man who was fighting for him
than anybody else. Take Salisbury, for
example. For four years it has shamelessly
fleeced the A.1.F., until to-day it is one of
the wealthiest, towns in England per capita.
Our mess decided to be reasonably comfort-
able and have some furniture. Shylock of
Salisbury sold us some at a monumental
figure, explaining that when we left he would
repurchase at a price which would leave the
difference a reasonable hiring charge. When
we got our orders to go and approached Shy-
he offered to repurchase at a discount
of 87| per cent—after only three months’
wear!
* * *
By a man who has been in S’Africa:—
Now that the German menace has been removed
from their border—partly through the operations of
a n army that was largely Boer, with a Boer general
in the lead—it is in the invariable order of things
that there should be a recrudescence of the Boer
demand for the restoration of independence. When
the menace of the French armies in Canada was
removed from their border it took the United States
folk just 13 years to decide that they could do with-
out Britain. The awkward fact is that Britain was
the last country which wiped out a republic—two
republics, in fact—to swell the dimensions of a
monarchy. One of the features of South African
society not polite, evening-dress Government House
society, nor yet society in general at Capetown and
Durban, but of people near the old border land—is
that the Englishman hasn’t forgiven, and isn’t likely
to. He won in the end, but it was a fight of years
between the biggest empire on earth and an isolated
inland people who looked like a grain of dust, and
the Boers, though they were worn down, scored the
majority of the victories. The English feeling is a
mixture of anger, contempt (for the enemy’s alleged
uncouthness) and bitter mortification. It is a sign
of the times that there has been a fierce row in the
Transvaal Legislature over the proposal to use as a
school-book a Boer history entitled “A Century of
Wrong,” and ascribed to General Smuts, though
there is no author’s name on the title-page. School
history is a subject of many rows in annexed coun-
tries. Within my recollection—and I don’t know
that things have altered—it was prohibited in Irish
State schools, though there were scraps in the reading
books about Henry of Navarre, the massacre of St.
Bartholomew, the Spanish Armada, or such-like. Per-
haps the next world-war is getting ready. Korea is
making a new fuss on the plea that the surrender of
its independence to Japan in 1910 was a matter of
force. Certainly the Japanese had occupied the
country; and the empress, who was a troublesome
little brown woman, was murdered in her palace and
her body burnt in the adjacent park (opinion is divided
as to whether she was quite dead when put on the fire) ;
and some members of the futile Cabinet were tor-
tured before the treaty was arrived at. Whether
these doings amounted to compulsion is a matter for
lawyers to decide. Woodrow Wilson is a lawyer,
though I don’t know if he is a good one,
AT THE DIVORCE SHARP’S.
“So you have had no luck in your matri-
monial ventures?”
“Non, m’sieu, au contraire I have been
happily divorced three times already.”
“D.F.”: The population of the Pacific
Islands seems to have been decreasing even
before the white man spread turn, new dis-
eases, clothes and other blessings amongst
them. Islands with no one on them when
they were discovered bore evidences of a
former population. Tbe first settlers on
Norfolk Island found stone axes and other
tools there, and thought they
saw signs that banana-plants
had once been set out in rows,
Fanning Island was deserted
when the Americans found it
in 1797, but Captain Maekay
a few years later found old
graves with stone tools and
trinkets buried with the re-
mains. So, too, Pitcairn
Island was empty when the
Bounty mutineers arrived, yet
showed evidences of ancient
settlement. And the stone
statues of Easter Island and
the megalithic monuments and
walls of the Carolines point to
a much larger ancient popula-
tion.
* * *
“H. 0.”: What innocent
lambs these shepherds are!
Archbishop Clarke, who wears
the gaiters of a blameless life
in Melbourne, the other day
made a speech suggesting that
“the sporadic outbreaks of
gun-play” which have lately
occurred were “in a great
measure attributable to the
effect on youthful and impres-
sionable minds of highly-
dramatic picture-plays.” The
“gun Dlay” to which the pre-
late referred is the result of
an organised warfare carried
on for months bv opposing
factions of “underworld” die-
hards, all well known to the
police and most of them old in years
and lawlessness. To anyone familiar
with the history of the vendetta, the
Archbish’s implication that but for
wicked picture-shows the leading characters
might, now be upright burghers is a matter
for mirth. It would be quite as reasonable to
suggest that had his Grace dipped into
“Deadwood Dick” in the days of his youth
he might now be the star garrotter of the
Flying Angels.”
* * * *
“Pad Australian”: What impressed me
most in the recent march through London of
the 10.000 Guards just home from France
was the weird collection of horses. The
chargers, with a few exceptions, were very
l.gkt for their job. In one case a very
superior person was riding an Arab abolit
polo weight, and the cantankerous palfrv
ivould amble in spite of the rider’s best en-
deavors to persuade him to walk. As to
color; there was almost every shade except
green and sky-blue. I saw one slab-sided,
banjo-headed jazzier of a beautiful ripe-leinbn
color, and several quaint piebalds. Almdst
every animal looked as if its Owner had
started to “rat-tail’* it, altered his mind after
he had worked about 18 inches from the croup,
and let things go at that. The gun teams
were good, useful, active cobby sorts, but they
didn’t seem to have the weight for heavy
going, although they would probably do
fairly fast work on good carrying ground.
The men, too, were a rather uneven lot.
Bjit what a frantic reception they got! It
was just one wild, long-drawn howl of wel-
come from one end of London to the other.
* * * #
“Bacon Stealer” : Heard two Diggers dis-
cussing the way some of their mates were
being treated by the Bepatriation Depart-
ment. Said one, “Anyway, Bill, we’re lucky
to be home. I suppose the last boatload
will have to pass an education test before
they will allow ’em to land.”
* * * *
"Centhrion”» “ILM.*’ (B. 15/5/’i9) eom-
fnents on the bad luck of the Digger who
blisses his boat for Australia becahse lie
takes too long over the last beer. It isn’t
always bad luck. At the close of the first
year of the South African trouble I was one
of a contingent booked for home by the
old Orient, then doing trooping work. 1 had.
with others, applied for a commission, but
things dragged on indefinitely till the morn-
ing came for sailing. Strathcona’s Horse
were also going home that day by the Dur-
ham Castle to Canada, and with them we
came into Capetown from Maitland camp.
We were lined tip in a square to be addressed
by various Ibcal obscurities. It was a lint
day, and just behind us was a pub. I was
right flank man of the rear troop of my lot,
and a pal in Strathcona’s was left-flanker of
his, a yard away. We both looked at the
pub. then at each other. Presently the con-
tingents marched off without us. We had a
pleasant morning, and finally left for the
breakwater in a hansom with half a dozen
friends. There were two boats lying at the
jetty. One had two funnels, the other had
but one. I had travelled on the Orient some
years before, and knew she had twd fhhriffls.
On board the double-chimneved craft we went,
and immediately went to sleep. Next thing
I knew was being awakened by the Canuck.
Said he: “Say, this is th’ Gardam Durham
Castle! Yewer boat’s pulled out an hour
ago.” I watched the distant Orient, whose two
funnels had been changed for one since I had
seen her last, go out past Robben Island. Then
SHARING THE WEALTH.
THE INFORMER (at the Sunday-school pic-
nic): “Eh, Mister, that new hoy don’t
belong to no church. ’E says ’e’s a
socherlest.”
I went up town, wondering what the clink at
Green Point was like. In Adderley-street I
ran into the depot adjutant, an old pal. Said
he when I had confessed: “Your luck’s in.
Your commission’s fixed up. We’ve been
trying to find you on the boat. You’re to
pick the Umpteenth Q. 1.8. up at Tort
Elizabeth next week. Then we went and
had one.
AN IDYLL OF JUNE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Plus tea and toast I take my ease
Draining sheer comfort to the lees
Where gas and firelight illume
And warm the cushioned, curtained room,
A well-worn volume on my knees.
Though showers lace the mournful breeze
That howls, 1 neither sigh nor sneeze;
Grey winter’s no such dreadful doom,
Plus tea and toast.
And much I love, in hours like these,
To read grim tales of polar seas;
Heroes, who dare a glacial tomb,
Piercing the blizzard’s icy gloom;
With them I strive and starve and freeze—
Plus tea and toast.
VICTORIA.
SYD. C.


Just out of the Boxes for Selling To-day
SOFT FELTS
STYLE No. 83.
One of our new Alpine shapes that is smart
and in good taste. Turn the brim down if
you like, and dent the crown —it's becoming
any way.
Cut edge and side or Back Bow. We show
it in Black, Navy, Brown, Slate, Drab and
Dust Shades. This is the Hat to
keep its shape.
bndon Mail Order Special
12 6
WIDE BRIM FEET
STYLE No. 116.
OUR MAIL ORDER SPECIAL. A style
specially made for country wear. All Pure
Fur Felt with a high crown and a 3-inch
brim, bound or cut edge. The highest class
of materials and workmanship has gone into
this Hat. We guarantee it to keep its shape
throughout lasting wear.
Black. Brown, Cedar and Slate
Shades
14/6
SOFT FELTS
STYLE No. 67.
A shapely, comfortable fitting Hat for
every-day wear. Made with medium brim
and medium high crown. Good-looking
and shape-keeping because the Hat con-
sists of all solid sound wearing Felt.
Slate, Brown and Black shades,
with cut edge and in all sizes.
616
Light Grey, Dark Grey
Brown mixtures, and the
Mist shade, with singh
welted edges.
and
new
or
TWEED HATS
STYLE No. 106.
The newest thing out in a Lounge Hat.
A soft, comfortable style, made from fine
grade Tweeds in a big range of patterns,
including Diagonals, as illustrated. Gener-
ally worn in Alpine style, and the brim
can be turned up or down. A most useful
Hat for Motorists.
516. 6|6, 7/6
IOMPOM
OPP.
C.P.O.
WITH this page before you a satisfactory
choice can be made of the smartest of this
Season’s Men’s Hat Styles —exact re-
productions of the actual goods just as they came
out of the Boxes.
Just state the style No., the shade you prefer, the
size you wear and
Order by Post.
Our experienced Hatters will pick out a Hat for
you just as carefully as if you were buying over
the Counter.
Carriage Paid on £1 Orders.
London Hats are carefully packed and despatched
by Post, in unbreakable Cartons, so that they
reach YOU in the same crisp condition that they
leave the Stores.
State Size
when
Ordering.
Satisfaction
Guaranteed.
w
The Pug'garee Hat
Designed by London hattees (opp.
G.P.0.), this New, Different and Smart Hat has
become THE accepted fashion for well-dressed
men.
Not a different Hat for the sake of being different, but
different to advantage. Quite a new feature is the
Plaited Puggaree, in shades that harmonise with the
Hats. Neat, Fancy Effects in Greys and Browns, and
Attractive Diagonal Stripes in Colors.
THE COLLINS. —A Hat for men who want something
different in good taste. Has 2£inch Flat Brim, with Medium
High Crown. Fine Fur Felt, in Grey, Slate and Brown, with
Plaited Puggarees that harmonise. Keeps it
shape until the final day of long service.
SPECIAL OFFER AT
211-
AMERICAN SHAPE
STYLE No. 3G.
This is the Hat that’s being worn NOW.
Nothing obtrusive. No “over style.” Just a
good-looking Fur Felt with a straight, flat
brim. It’s the latest —and becoming.
With, its sure touch of style—the new
hand-tied bow and the dented crown —this is
the very Hat for you.
Slate, Brown, Grey,
Dust and Black. Any
size you say
15/6,21|-
VELOUR FINISH
STYLE No. 77.
‘THE HAT WITH A GUINEA LOOK.”
Finished in a soft Velour effect that makes it
specially suited for winter wear.
Out edge and light weight. Your choice of
Black, Brown, Slate and Grey shades. Needs
no “breaking-in.” Comfortable
and shape-conforming from the
first day’s wear
12/6
REAL VELOURS
STYLE No. 44.
No illustration can possibly do justice to
the lovely soft silky nap of this Velour —
and its rich lustrous sheen.
A Hat right out of the common by its
superfine grade. Will give seasons of
wear and always look good. Rich Black
shade with sweat-proof leather and all-
silk banding, all sizes.
SOI-, 55 1: 45
.—\~T^
TWEED CAPS
STYLE No. 147.
Good shapely Caps made from Tweeds of
distinctive design. Clean, even stitching
and smart, full shapes. Great variety of
Greys, Dark Greys, Browns, Greens and
Fancy mixtures. All have Unbreakable
Peaks, and are finished inside with good
quality lining.
516, 4/6, 5/6
Limited
Our Only Address throughout Australia. Melbourne*


mm®
LU
THe
finest
TOBACCO
in
two forms—
Plug-Slice
or
Ready-Rubbed.
EDGEWORTH
SPORTING
CARTRIDGES
Our Special Offer.
The Celebrated
SOVEREIGN, 21/- per 100
SMOKELESS, 20/6 per 100-m soo lots
CARTRIDGE, 20/- per 100-in 1000 lots.
This is the finest smokeless cartridge made.
12-Gauge, loaded, double-chilled shot, and
Nobel’s Empire Smokeless Powder.
Shot Nos. 2,3, 4,5, 6, 8 and 10.
We have the largest stocks in Victoria
of Winchester, Remington and Dominion
Cartridges. Send for special list.
McEWAN’S,
Melbourne’s Busiest Hardware Store,
119-125 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
King Geqrge IV
IMI • A WHI SKY
11
THE TOP NOTCH SCOTCH
A SAFE PROTECTOR
ABORIGINLITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
‘ The Hump”: Let me commend as a job
for the ex-Crown Prince mange-dressing camels.
Every time the accursed business had to be done I
swore that when I got back to Australia I’d shoot
on sight the man who cajoled me from the infantry
to the camel corps. After treating the ailing beast
it. took about a fortnight before you stopped tasting
the disinfectant with your meals, and by that time
the patient had begun to moult again. I recollect
one man from Glebe having a rough time with a par-
ticularly nasty beast, and during the performance he
got huffy with his officer. “Look here,” said the cap-
tain, “I won't crime you tor that, but I’ll kick your
behind.” The chap threw down his swab and turned
on the officer. “Right-oh,” he said ; “you kick first;
then I’ll kick you, and the loser mange-dresses this
camel.” There was no court-martial.
“Entomos”: The death's-head moth (B.
6/2/19) is not Australian. It has evidently been
introduced from the Cold Country by an enthusiastic
bug-man, and the capture of a specimen in N. S.
Wales is certainly interesting. Re the big grey
moth from dead timber, let me correct “Veronal.”
The caterpillars exist in living trees, but, in the
event of the wood drying, have the power, from
quite early youth, of completing their cycle and
becoming moths. Most juvenile caterpillars die when
their food supply fails, but Nurse Nature has arranged
that these usually long-lived things from our euca-
lyptus, wattle and other trees need not then pass
out. The abos. may eat these moths. A sin. one
is rather a pygmy, there being many much larger,
four species I know measuring from 9 to 9$ inches,
with a body as thick as an office ruler. But the
corpulent and juicy caterpillars are much more to
their taste, and, a bit browned on the coals, are
included in their menu as frequentLr as possible.
Many a white, schooled in bush secrets by his dark
brethren, has sampled these wrigglers and pro-
nounced them toothsome.
* * * *
“Gouger”: North of Cairns (Q.) there
grows a variety of tree-fern which sprouts forth a
crop of seeds each nearly the size of a billiard-ball.
The blacks pound them up and put the flour to soak
in running water for 24 hours. This takes out
the poison which is contained. The flour is then
dried and “beggars on the coals” are made out of
it. The only trouble with the fern is that when
the green fronds are eaten by cattle the banquet is
promptly followed by rickets. Cattle seemingly
healthy and in good condition collapse and have
to be shot. There are a lot of hearty greetings
from bank managers awaiting the man who can find
a sure cure for this ricket disase.
* * * *
“Dear Fellow”: The terms “clapmatch”
and “wig” were well enough understood in Hobart
Town a century or more ago, but now the first is
clean forgotten and the second survives only in
relation to horse- and other hair. A “clapmatch”
was a female seal, a “wig” the old male, and a
“pup ’ the young seal. No one seems to know why
the old bull-seal was called a “wig,” but “clap-
match” has a curious history. It is derived from the
Dutch “klapmuts,” a kind of hood worn by sailors,
and was first applied to a species of seal which had
a sort of gristly protuberance, supposed to resemble
a hood, on its nose. Clayton, writing in 1775, gives
clapmatch ’ as the name of the seal figured in
Anson’s “Voyage” under the name of the sea-lion In
bis day the word h’ad evidently no special application
to the females, but later it came to be confined to
them. “A ihip in sight is anything but good news
for the pups, wigs and clapmatches,” says a writer
in the old Sydney Gazette, referring to the “seal-
ing islands” of the far south.
* * * *
“Pick : Though it came iu time to be
too late to save Norman Lindsay’s pet, the koala, the
Native Animals’ Protection Act has apparently given
the N.S.W. opossum another lease of life. That interest-
ing little Australian’s guttural argument with the
other fellow across Gumtree-street may once again be
a feature of the wilds. The pity is that in several
districts of N. S. Wales the restrictions against
possum- and kangaroo-killing are about to expire.
OUR VERSACULAR.
THE PARSON'S WIFE: "Well, how are things going, Mrs. Cowdry?”
THE COW-COCKY'S: “So good at all, mum. The milk's goin' sour on me, and two pigs
died on me; and note, when eggs is worth a bit, the fowls have all stopped laying
on me.”
Unless at once re-enacted, the very slowly-recovering
furry tribes will soon be again depleted. By the
way, why is it that Sydney skin-buying firms per-
sistently quote prices for the skins of animals that
come under the Animals’ Protection law? Have
they got a pull with the “National” Government?
“Mellisk Reef”: Faivo was a hefty
Malaita boy who was having a bad bout with bron-
chitis. He was “close-up finish.” Faivo was the
son of a chief, which made him more valuable in the
eyes of his cobbers, who formed our boat’s-crew. I
HIS SOFT HEART EDS ESS.
THE SPONGER: "Yer wouldn't stand there an' see me die o' thirst, would yer, mate?”
THE DRINKER: “No fear! I’d shut my eyes first!”
was doing the best I could for him, when the spokes-
man of the boys said: “This feller medicine you
g'ivim boy ’e all right along white man; or s’pose
one feller debil-debil, ’e stop; but boy ’e gotim
two feller debil-debil. ’E die along night. S’pose
boy ’e die, father b’long him makeim me feller pay
plenty money—twenty pounds, I tink. He feller no
gotim money. By-’m-bye five other feller boy he
die; altogether ’e gotim debil-debil alleesame. More
better you sendim some feller boy back along
Malaita, makim present along debil-debil [i.e.,
sacrifice pigs], or altogether boy ’e die.” I agreed
to this; but before daylight Faivo went west.
Before doing so, however, he stood up and thanked
us for what we had done for him.
* * * *
“Azac”: Reported that a flying lizard has
been “discovered” by Mrs. Adam Black of Pajingo
station (N.Q.). If this reptile turns out to be a
new discovery it will be the third known flying
lizard in the world. The lady says that she has, on
various occasions, observed the stranger parachuting
down from high trees to the ground. Its parachute
is a frill around its neck, which folds up neatly when
the flying stunt is not in progress.
mi : I werra krad I kum Tidnev. Now
I terra you all about how to ket te partaport. 1
iudient for t er f"** 1 Say him: “ Rtt me have
audient for te korero.” He say me: “Wha for?”
tol him. I want te partaport.” “Wha’ for’”
H w T 1- 1 to1 ’ him 1 want t 0 ho to Tidnev.
He ket te papers and he ask rot silly things 1,-
say me: You te male?” Me te male, by kri -
He say me: “Tone ket you prurry pack up.” ’Tis
moren two months ago. That partaport he never
kurn. So I ko Wellington. Wen te tirna ready to
ko, te mans he s’out, “All ko ashore!” We all
same te pig mob sheep. By-’m-bye, I tol’ him I kot
te partaport. He rook me and he say: “Orl ri’ ; you
ko ket te good feed.” So I ko. When we ket to
Tidney Heads we trop te mud-hook. We hoyt te
yella frag, and te white tokita kum. He put te lil’
telescope town te troat and take te tempers and put
him on a card. By-’m-bye, we kum te wharf. B>
kri, nobody kum ashore! Te pig fat soldier mind
te gangway. He too big to kum up te gangway, so
he top on te wharf. Te soldier man he take my
partaport, and I ko to te Top-o’-te-Pole Hotel. Te
nex’ day I ko and try ket my partaport back. I ko
te Kutoms. I sorry I ko him. He tol’ me get six
photo. He take one and charge me 2s. I going on
to Japan with tir partaport, so I ko te Japanec
Consul. He put te tamp on te papers and charge me
2k. Ten te Kutoms man he take me up te road.
By kri’, te kirl she say me: “You been Merika?”
t say, “No ; I tone rike it.” So te tall mans he
say, “You tell te kirl te truth—so ’elp me George
Y atington.” I say: “So ’elp me Bill Massey.” He
look me hard and charge te indemnity Bs. sd. Tas
to way te white cow rob te Maori.
* * * *
“Bill R.”: Let me advise Abo. readers
not to place dependence on “Toni's” theory (B.
8/5/ 19) that only non-venomous snakes climb trees.
On Oak Range, Monaro (N.S.W.), I once helped to
push a “tiger” out of a ’possum spout 30ft. from the
ground. And about the biggest black snake I ever
interviewed was one that lobbed among a company
of juvenile cherry-pickers at Parkesbourne. He had
been aloft lying in wait for parrakeets, and he dis-
gorged one when I walloped him with a pitchfork-
handle and great enthusiasm. Then there are the
snakes up the telegraph-poles which the homing
drunk pursues at midnight.
* * *
S. : Here’s another way to prevent a
new' pipe from burning or cracking. Sioke it one-
thin! full and smoke; then half-full and smoke;
next completely full. I have tried this with a score
of pipes and have never had one crack or burn. It
is a good idea also to let water run through a new
pipe before smoking, of course seeing that it is
thoioughly dry again before the tobacco is put in.
* * * *
“Jimsey”: Near Yawrie (N.S.W. South
Coast) I recently came across a rocking-stone. It
is about 9ft. high, of a rough spherical shape and
\\ou d weigh about six tons. The slightest push
is sufficient to start it swinging. It will move about
Sin. in any direction, but it would take a charge of
dynamite to rock it any further. The stone is
resting on another pebble and is balanced on its end,
which is curved and about five inches across. Its
address is about 11 miles from Yawrie, in the moun-
tains. I have never heard of any other in Australia.
(Continued on page 22.)
THE OLD BUSH NIGHTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I sit in a room that is twelve-by-twelve,
And the ceiling painted white;
On a bentwood chair in the straining glare
Of the pale electric-light.
And my thoughts go back by a winding track
To the nights I used to know,
W hen our arms were strong and our hearts were
strong
And our blood was all aglow.
When we never looked for sorrow
That might come along to-morrow,
And we didn’t seem to worry where the money
used to go.
A car sweeps by on the long white road
M ith a devil-may-care and scorch,
And its headlights play on the broad roadway
As I look through the open porch.
I can hear a train on the distant plain
And pick out a hundred lights;
And my thoughts go back by the winding track
As I think of the olden nights.
When the slush-light flickered dimly,
And we faced our troubles grimly,
And we battled for the union and the things we
called our rights.
There were nights we spent in the haunted camps,
\\ here the restless spirits bide;
Where the phantoms stalk and the dead men walk,
And the headless horsemen ride,
here the night-birds cry as the coach goes by,
And the horses plunge in fright;
And the headlights gleam on the plunging team
In the blackness of the night.
But they leave before the grey light
Lets you know that it is daylight,
And you laugh at midnight fancies when the sun
is shining bright.
And there were nights beside the Gulf
In the overlanding days,
Where rovers come and rovers go,
But the man is lost that stays.
here the cattle ring and the drovers sing
Through the watches in the night;
And the wagtails peep at the men asleep
Beyond the blazing light.
Oh! the nights of ninety-seven
When we camped right under Heaven,
When the wanderlust was on us and the Star of
Hope was bright!
There was a night when we rode alone
Where the plains were wild and wide,
And we travelled west on a bushman’s quest,
And the sheep-dog jogged beside. ;
And the squatter slept as we slowly crept i
With an eye for his fattest sheep,
Till we found a mob and did our job
Where the restless dingoes creep.
Ere the eastern sky was ruddy
We were satisfied—and bloody—
As we burnt the skin and offal and the parts that
wouldn’t keep.
And there was a time when the lure of gold
Had entered the hearts of men,
And a man and wife in the spring of life
Went off to the diggings then.
And one dark night a light shone bright
On the flap of their tilted cart,
And a child was born in the early morn,
And gladdened the miner’s heart.
And their spirits didn’t suffer
When they bottomed on a duffer—
And the man that writes the story was the baby
in the cart.
Arid he sits in a room that is twelve-by-twelve
That lie hates with a bitter hate
When his thoughts go back by the old bush track
And many an old bush gate
In the tranquil hush of the moonlit bush
To the call of the open land,
Bv hill and plain and shine and rain,
And the men of the open hand—
Out beyond the Never Never,
Where a mateship lasts for ever,
And the bush is big and peaceful, and’the bush if
always grand.
N.S.W.
JIM GRAHAME.


.'V* ■WWfo*
PLAYER PIANOS
is delightfully easy to play.
An ESTEY PLAYER PIANO will turn many a dull
evening into a bright one. The glorious beauties of
music are always at your hand, and you can revel in
the sweet entrancing music of the classics or the jolly,
bright, free and easy popular music of the day.
Just what you want you can play, and just when you
want it, and without having to worry to learn it—the
music roll does everything for you.
Every shade of expression and tone=quality is instantly
obtainable by means of the Player devices. The
pedalling is a revelation, and so easy, too. It never
makes you tired.
You can purchase an ESTEY PLAYER on Easy Terms
if required. Your present piano taken in exchange
and full honest value allowed.
Write for our Player Piano Catalogue and PRINTED PRICE LIST
(post free).
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches at Brisbane, Lismore, Toowoomba & Newcastle.
THE dtewm HANDY WORKER
IS IN CONSTANT DEMAND THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
Its Sale has Steadily Increased Month by Month for the Past Four Years.
WHY?
Because it exactly fills the
wants of every householder.
It can be bolted in any con-
venient place in a few
moments’ time, and it con-
tains the very tools neces-
sary to make those little
repairs which every house-
holder likes doing himself.
Price 97/6.
* :
, •■ - 1
r*r • —' x"
w
With it all sorts of home re-
pairing can be done. It will
keep knives, axes and other
cutting tools sharp. Any
job can be held firmly
securely in the vice. Iron
can be bent or cut,
machinery can be repaired,
holes can be bored in metal,
wood or leather. It can be
used in a hundred ways.
Price 97/6.
The Stewart Handy Worker is a Big, Strong, Everlasting Outfit.
It is well finished and constructed to stand long years of continued use. It weighs one hundred pounds, boxed for shipment, and comprises the.
following* A wood vice opening 41^in., with removable steel facing; a Cutting Hardie for cutting steel wires, indestructible solid steel
pipe vice, takes pipe to lUin.; a drill press, complete with two high-grade twist drills; a carborundum grinding wheel, complete with grinding
attachment, etc., which can be operated at three speeds; a good, substantial anvil, which can be removed when desired for the drill-press bracket.
FOR SALE BY IRONMONGERS AND STOREKEEPERS EVERYWHERE.
Write to-day for catalogue and name of your nearest dealer to
Cooper Engineering' Co. Etd.
129 Sussex Street, Sydney.
4®o Collins Street, Melbourne.
t^ccpefo-jdlewa7if>
(Manufacturers and Distributors of the Famous
Products.)


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE-
-129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COEEINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
Bi'Shia 1" 1 ■
c
m m
it.
Mm a a
••::■•■: '■•■:: ■■■■ • :■: ■ ' /.• ■
' ' ::■ -■: : >
h m
L ©
-■ s*
R
sSE
p £< '
v. y&m tm4.
2S&
v*i
t •--'***■ ITS.
K 3
Hi
Ipf
I
PE'
•'...'
«>
(Sfi
p~a
PO
aa
ij
.'•- 1
1
Si V?
vs
graft
pa
B.'-JI
» >'•!’* '>
»*2<> 5 \ - i
>-« **j
u&
1
■:
% 'a.
MM
-'; .•'■■pP- I
Our Delicious Chocolates—
FUSSY GIRL
Fancy Boxes.
FUSSY CAKES
Vanilla, Nut and Nut Milk.
OTHER EXCLUSIVE LINES
IN FANCY BOXES—Louise
(very large), Sepia, You’re in
Love, Tableaux and Birthday.
Equal to Best Imported.
CONFECTION IN PERFECTION.
Wholesale only—
McINTYRE BROS, Melbourne.
inter-state Agents:
DAVID BLASHKI, Pitt Street
MADDOX & LAURENCE, Perth
J. P. WILSON LTD., Brisbane,
w. R. LANCSFORD, Adelaide
Sydney.
* * * *
“Entomos”: If “Cecil D.” (B. 13/3/T9)
continues to interest himself in insects, wasps especi-
aHy, he will observe much that is queer. Reference
to “Agricola’s” excellent note (B. 27/2/’l9) will
help him greatly. The yellow-antennicd blackish chap
is a wasp, with various relatives much like him—or
her, really - all possessing a penchant for spiders,
which they sting into quiescence. The paralyser then
elects to straddle the paralysed, but, the legs being
in the way, she bites them off, or most of them, then
proceeds homeward with her victim, which is to
serve as food for her' offspring. She has earlier
located a little nook, a keyhole being much fancied
(or a roundish mud nest on a twig, with several
comfy cells for her spiders, may have been prepared),
into which the not-dead-but-reposeful prey is bun-
dled, an egg laid on it, and the hole then sealed up
with clay. In time, a wasp, or several, according to
the size of the nest and number of spider-cells, will
emerge. One wasp will bite off all the eight’ legs,
another will consider six sufficient, but “Cecil” may-
be jumping to conclusions—and those erroneous—in
stating that the wasp sucks the juices exuding from
the leg stump. Different colonies, different insects;
but practically everywhere the wasps of solitary
habit embalm spiders and caterpillars, etc., to serve
as food for their young. I don’t think the species
regales herself upon the spider’s juices.
* * * *
E.A.\. ; Grafton (N.S.W.) Pastures
Protection Board has found a use for the fox, and
has stopped paying a bonus for his scalp. Its opinion
is that the red fellow is the greatest natural enemy
of the rabbit, which is threatening to invade the
North Coast, and that he will be more effective than
netting or poison in holding bunny in check. The
Board also advises protection of brown and eagle-
hawks, iguanas and carpet-snakes as valuable auxil-
iaries to the fox. After the bunnies are wiped out
it is the intention to send the foxes hack to Eng-
land by the first mailboat.
NO IMPROVEMENT.
“And your poor wife has been on the edge
of the grave for seven years. Have you
tried praying?”
Yes; but that didn’t seem, to bring ’er no
nearer-”
“Nick Bottom”: Re “Tarwin’s” query (B.
17/4/T9) anent the crab that resides in the back
portion of the mouth of the trevalli. This crus-
tacean is the well-known Legpullus kidstakesi. It
is used by the trevalli as a toothpick.
“Bouragi” : Bulletin mention of the
islands of Boigu and Saibai, which, though close
to the Papuan coast, are included within the boun-
daries of Queensland, recalls an old-standing grievance
which the Papuan Government nurses against Ryan’s
territory. William Macgregor, in particular, was
never tired of voicing it. When S.E. New Guinea
was first taken up, at
Australia’s insistence,
by. the Colonial Office,
Bananaland put in a
claim for all the
available pearling
ground she could get
control of. The claim
was allow'ed by the
C. 0., which hated the
idea of troubling
about the show from the
first, with the result
that the Queensland
boundary runs far
north of its proper
territorial limit; it
almost touches the
Papuan coast in
places. Boigu and Sai-
bai became “sanctu-
ary,” and evildoers
who were “wanted” at
Duru slipped over the
Queensland line and
were safe for the time
being. Macgregor
bumped this arrange-
ment in 1898 to
square matters up
with the Tugeri. These
were a savage people
who lived in Dutch
territory, and yearly
made head-hunting
raids along the coast
of British N.G., leav-
ing nothing but devas-
tation behind them.
Macgregor caught them
with their vast fleets
of canoes while they
were busy cleaning
up Boigu and other
islands inside the
Queensland boundary,
but as the raiders
dodged away on the
Papuan side, where
the Merrie England could not follow in the
shallow water, he had to drive them ashore,
leaving the Tugeri a 300-mile walk home
through an awful sago swamp. Later he
cut off a large body of the Tugeri on land,
and dealt so reverently, etc., with them that
there were no more raids by the cannibals.
One of the rarest medals in existence was issued for
this expedition by the Colonial Office. Six were sent
out by the C. 0., but only three of them w’ere dis-
tributed by the B.N.G. Administration—one to the
white commandant of the Armed Native Constabu-
lary and tw'o to native members of the force.
“Azac”: Re the suggestion (B. l/5/’l9)
that there should be established a travelling bird-
school in charge of a lecturing naturalist to spread
the knowledge of bird uses and habits, “E.S.S.” is
hereby invited to consider this. Recently the N. S.
Wales Department of Agriculture published a useful
book on the utility (and otherwise) of Australian
birds, and although its publication was advertised
far and wide, also the fact that it could be had for
the asking (post free), under 100 copies have been
distributed! When it is considered that out of
that number many curious city folk obtained copies,
and also that a few dozen were sent to the Depart-
ment of Public Health, one can easily gather the
amount of interest taken in this publication by the
people whom it really did concern—the farmers.
There’s only one way to impart knowledge of bird-
ology to the man on the land, and that is by making
it a compulsory subject in the schools. The coming
generation will then be sure to have a fairly sound
acquaintance with their bird friends and foes. The
present working generation can be abandoned as
hopeless.
* * * *
“Barber”: The best way to prevent a pipe
from burning or cracking is to fill the bowl with hot
water and leave it stand over-night. Empty and
allow to thoroughly dry. If it cracks after that, pre-
sent it to a South Seas missionary society, which
will swap it to a heathen for half a year’s crop of
copra.
ti * *
H.B. : This is the real Mackay for pre-
venting a pipe cracking or burning. Rub the
inside of the bowl with black-lead or stove-polish.
You can get black-lead at any parsonage. The holy
man uses it to polish the top-hat which he sends
round.
* * * »
“Melos”: The anvil-bird is not the only
chook that can imitate the village blacksmith.
Some of the honey-eaters, particularly the mock re-
gent and the white-fronted, have a metallic voice
which suggests the ring of iron. The dragoon uses
a block of stone whereon to hammer the stuffing out
of snails. If anything interferes with his business,
or the shellbacks happen to be tough, this fellow’s
language is kin to what you hear in a smith’s shop
when Bill’s moke refuses to stand on three legs, or
kicks on the kneecap the party who goes every Sun-
day to the church to hear his daughter twitter in the
choir.
IN SELF-DEFENCE.
“Hallo, Ferguson! What’s up?"
“Gunshot wounds, old man.”
“Great Scott! How did it happen? Out
shooting?”
“No, home learning the cornet.”
“Sandfly”: I don’t want to go any further
than this. “Frank R.’s” statement (B. 27/2/’l9)
that Lee and Sons, of Proserpine (Q.), made
a crocodile leg it 12 miles is as false as
Japanese matches. I know the whole Lee family,
and, besides having been a next-door cocky to them
until quite recently, used to accompany them in
their fishing and hunting jaunts, and
I have never known them to attempt
to drove a catch overland. I have
seen every croc, they have exhibited
in the Proserpine township, and can
prove tha,t each one was hauled
either on a truck over the tram-line
or by horse-waggon. Dad Lee, the
noted croc catcher of N.Q., is a great
leg-puller. His weird stories of las-
sooing and handling - reptiles would
make a baldheaded man’s hair grow.
I have been amongst crocodiles in
the vicinity of Proserpine and on
the northern rivers of N.Q. —have
caught them alive, hunted for their
eggs and studied their habits gener-
ally—for years, arid never have I
seen or heard of them straying more
than 100 yards from the water’s-
edge. One has to do a good deal of
coaxing to get them away from the
creeks or rivers. It is done only
by first tying a bait near the water,
then increasing the distance from
the bank each day until the lizard
comes far enough to be trapped.
There are exceptions where croco-
diles have been seen miles away from
their usual haunts, but this is when flooded
ereeks or rivers have overflowed their banks and
on falling to their normal have left the saurians
stranded. One case of this kind was observed in the
Ayr district about 18 months ago, when a nine-footer
was shot in the middle of a canefield.
*. * * *
“Closing Time”: The only sure way to
prevent a new pipe cracking is to leave it in the shop.
Camelero’ - : I’ ve found this O.K for
ng£» urs b t ? ckfeiiow gave nie the
SS* a bU cme b0 for d rh n ' lko
" oul a cine tor rheumatism. He treated q
ster who was travelling from the coast to tL l
manby goldfield IN O ) t hi Ito the >or '
. u. * eiu This man was so bad that
!® had t .° u n. vok e the horses and crawl under the
waggon—helpless. The blaekboy went into th7t„l
and collected leaves, which he boded „ aktg 2
ZZ \lu k the broth ' 11 was a eure, but Inever
found out the name of the tree that owned the leaves
Gougers recent reference in The Bulletin- to
dysentery on Gallipoli reminds me that it was the
preserved onions we were issued with that put us on
the sick parades. They were packed in tins and
£hen cooked were about as dry and tasteless’ as a
Pharisees repentance. s a
* . * * *
U.P. : Down our way (south-east «>f
S. Aus.) wombats are doing even worse than destrov-
mg the wire-netting on fences near their burrows
they nave started tunnelling beneath the medalled
road between Beachport and Robe, and when heavJ
oads pass over the burrows the metal subsides The
Blue Take teamSterS is up the
* * * *
“Jim Carew”: There is an interesting
legend attached to the big bare cliff near Peats
Ferry, Havvkesbury River (N.S.W.). A tribe of
Binghis had offended tlieir guardian spirit, and had
been foibidden, as a punishment; ever to camp for
more than one night at any place. Their debil-
debil followed them round to see that he was
obeyed, hunting them from place to place and
giving them no rest. Their ill-fame spread, and no
other tribe would have anything to do with them
Once they managed to evade their enemy, and had
been camped for nearly a month under a large over-
hanging ledge of rock. When the spirit discovered
them he was so angry at finding they had disobeyed
his orders that he caused the ledge containing thou-
sands of tons of rock to fall and blot out the whole
tribe. I’ll vouch for this, anyhow, that there cer-
tainly has been a terrific slide on the spot at some
time or other.
M ** * #
“FY7”: I see that the beautiful brolga
or native companion, Australia’s only crane, is visit-
ing the N. S. Wales North Coast cow country in
great numbers, having been shifted from the west,
no doubt, by the recent extra-dry conditions. Old’
hands reckon the birds haven’t been seen on the coast
foi 40 years. I m told that every yahoo in the
district who can borrow a gun is shooting the
strangers. Why, God knows, for the birds aren’t
good for cow-feed, and are just as unpalatable for
human beings. Also, the graceful creature’s feathers
are no use for a best girl’s Sunday hat, even sup-
posing the girls up that way can spare time from
cow V.A.D.-ing to wear Sunday hats.
* * * *
“H.A.R.”: Mention by “Konini” (B.
20/3/’l9) of a shearing record put up at Taihape
Station (M.L.), reminds me of the bigger sheep-rup
at Moawhango, in the same district, which was owned
by one Battley. The latter, as part of his equipage
at country sports, was always attended by a big,
full-blooded buck Maori in Highland costume.
Dunno what clan the tartan represented, but some
of the men from Scotia who settled in Taihape used
to become whuskiously indignant at McHenare
appearing in the petticoat, and threatened to
brain him with a haggis. MacHenare’s troubles!
These prurry bagpipe prokes,” he used to sav, “all
wind!”
THE INCONSIDERATE SEX.
“I hear poor old Steve Treloar's wife is
snuffing out.”
“Snuffing out, is she? Just like 'em—doin'
it right in the middle of harvest!”
TO A STREET ACQUAINTANCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Immovable you sit within your cage,
Like some old shiny--overcoated Jew;
Your hook-nosed face, expressionless but sage,
Facing the city side-walk’s frowsy crew.
Are there no thoughts behind those small bright eyes
Which look so preternaturally wise?
Is life to you a mere dull wooden blank,
A question of so many - seeds per day?
Or do you brood on times when, rank on rank,
The snow-white parrot-armies winged their way,
You in their midst, breathing the high free air,
And wild with utter joy at being there?
Do you remember, as you watch the street,
It 3 crashing trams and fleeting drab-clothed forms,
That other life, in which you used to greet
The dawn, the shining plains, the passing storms,
Jbe laden fruit-trees, and the gleaming creeks,
With eager, glad, discordant cries and shrieks.
The Lord forbid that I should think you do!
Life would acquire a lot of added gloom
If one were suddenly unable to
Believe that parrots like a small wire room
(Shut off from light and air and sea and sky)
In which to sit and see free fo'ks pass by.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


A\jS°' un 'Q<jM
P ~in qualities j •
CLASS CIGARETTES
iv r .
AT Moderate p ftfc
%
CIGARETTES
0- JJ J virgi^
’HTI-'k AIT Oi rtrt tic "E? ,0 *\)
The Famous Red Pacßet
IO for 8d»
/
Standard Weight.
Care in the selection of the finest quality matured
tobaccos, stamps STATE EXPRESS CIGARETTES
with that indefinable something which is so gratifying
to the cultured smoker.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS-ARDATH-TOBACCO COY LT 9 LONDON.ENGLAND:-


Some Coughs take a lot of “shaking off”
—generally several bottles of the ordinary
cough mixtures; but the worst and most
obstinate cough will disappear like magic
if treated with
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
Under the influence of this super-remedy
the improvement is immediate.
W. G. HEARNE & Co. Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
■Try
%
L
COLDS
COUCHS
0
CROUP
LUNG
TROUBU3
chest
affections
0
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street,
SYDNEY.
will be treasured by many a hard-doing Aus-
tralian lighting man when much alleged sol-
dier poetry is completely forgotten. (Hello,
Soldier! by Edward Dyson ; Melbourne, Alex.
McKinley and Co.)
The Death Song of Murri
In the Rev. William Ridley’s “Camilroi
and Other Dialects” the author concludes
with a rather mournful “Parting word for
the Race of Murri,” the generic name of
the aboriginals. Herewith I give a literal
translation of what stern old Woorallajee
sang to me—who have been among abo-
rigines since I was seven —as the Death song
of his race; for afar off he saw that time
coming, and above the sound of wind and
waves he heard the tramp of doom, as did
the ancient Norseman
When saddled were the steeds of Fate,
That champ the bit by Asgard gate.
A. Meston.
THE DEATH-SONG OF MURRI.
No more the whir of the bird-like boomerang,
skimming the ground as a swallow or circling round
us like Warrawandi, the spine-tailed swift!
No more the sharp spear piercing the air in
silence to where it is parried by the narrow shield!
No more the clang of the nulla on the sounding
heelamin, the war-note of the Race of Murri!
No more the hand-to-hand combat of the young
warriors in the first of their battles !
No more the quivering of the womera and the
reed spear flashing past as if thrown by the light-
ning 1
No more does Yulu, the porpoise, drive in the
frightened mullet, where the young men surround
them with the tow-row net and offer Yulu his share
on the point of a spear!
No more are the tracks of the naked feet of Murri
seen on the white sands of the shore where the waves
have washed them out for the last time!
Overhead in the night I hear the wild swan call-
ing to his mate, and there is no answer when he
rsks, “Where are the fires and the camps of Murri ?”
The winds make no answer, and the waves have
none. And the old trees ask each other: “Where are
the people who once ascended our tall trunks and
dragged the opossum from his lair?
“Where are the swift feet, that ran the emu and
the kangaroo to the place where the unerring spear
or the nulla ended the long race on the plains or in
the valleys?
“Where are those eagle-eyed men from whose keen
sight no bird or beast could lie concealed, and no
foe could hide his tracks?
“Where are the youths to whom the old men
taught the laws of the tribe, and the secrets of
Biamee, in the Bora circles of the Race of Murri?
I sit on the great rock that overlooks the home of
;he waterfall, and see the sun go down in the West
towards the abode of Biamee, and I stand and call to
him to bring back my people when he returns from
his sleep in the morning.
The moon looks down at night and is silent when
I call, and only Echo answers from the lonely caves.
For the full moon beholds no more the white and
yellow ranks of the warriors in the corroboree, the
rising and falling arms and the quivering muscles,
and the earth feels no more the stamp of many
feet, and the silent birds hear not the song of
the women, and the loud beat on the hollow thighs,
or the chorus of the old men and the clash of the
resounding boomerangs.
But the Stars, which are the eyes of Biamee, look
down, and a voice calls from the clouds: “Never
more shall you see the Race of Murri among the
hills and on the plains they have left for ever!
“They are with Biamee, where the white man
troubles them no more; where their wrongs shall be
forgotten until the day of the white man’s own doom
shall arrive.
“You, too, 0 Woorallajee, shall come to Biamee
and mourn no more for your lost race!’’
The thunder shakes the mountains, and the red
lightning rends the rocks asunder, but no ear of
Murri shall listen to those sounds again.
When I walk among the trees to hear the voices
of the birds they are all silent.
Even at night the mournful dingo is mute, and no
wailing whistle comes from the sad curlew.
By the seashore the waves are silent when I pass,
and even the voices of all the winds are heard no
more until I am gone.
All things, save the white man, mourn for the Race
of Murri.
But the day of the white man’s own darkness shall
come, and none shall mourn for him.
Then the birds and the trees shall rejoice, for he
gave them to death and to the fire.
He sent the Race of Murri to the grave!
Our women and children fled in terror from the
sight of his face, for he had the snake eyes of
Ahvandi the Evil Spirit, and the look of red Cal-
moora, who ate our children in the white caves of
Mirramooma I
The curse of the Race of Murri has gone to
Biamee, the maker of all things, and Biamee, the
friend of Murri, will remember the white man in
the Day of Doom!
A Satchel of Books
What Not, by Rose Macaulay (Constable, London).
This satire on the multiplication of Ministries has a
history. It was bound and ready for distribution
in Nov., 1918, when it was found that “a slight
alteration in the text was essential to safeguard it
against one of the laws of the realm.” So it had
to be unbound and bowdlerised. The story mostly con-
cerns the Minister for Brains and the work of his office.
The often very clever satire will be best appreci-
ated by those who know something of the inner work-
ing of the innumerable new “Ministries” that Lloyd
George created, partly to do necessary public work,
but often, it seemed, to provide for politicians who
might otherwise have made themselves a nuisance.
And those who clon’t know anything of the inner work-
ings of the new Ministries can get a very interesting
lesson from these 250 pages.
Concentration and Character Building, by Dorothy
Grenside, teaches how to acquire “creative thought,”
“concentrative thought,” “consecutive thought,” “re-
ceptivity of thought,” and generally to build up the
muscles of the mind. Whether a course of it
would make, say, Holman, who is at least a consecu-
tive elocutionist if not a consecutive thinker, see
that £819,902 is rather much to add to the annual
interest bill of a small State in a single year is
another matter. (G. Bell and Sons, London.)
The Pillar of Fire, by H. C. Bailey (Methuen,
London). A story of the days of Lord Palmerston.
Garibaldi, Louis Napoleon and the Italian revolution
come into the yarn; and the heroine makes her
entrance by murdering an Austrian spy. In spite
of that, she marries the Prime Minister’s secretary.
Exciting in a rather melodramatic way.
Hearts Courageo-us, by John Oxenham (Methuen,
London). Advice in prosy and undistinguished
verse to “Look Beyond,” “Follow Me” and do other
print-worn things. There are lots of patriotic
piayers and the like; but the verse is commonplace
in thought and manner. Still, there is an occa-
sional flash, but never one bright enough to redeem
the book.
Special Performances, by W. Pett Ridge (Methuen,
London). Rattling good London yarns with plenty
of feeling and plenty of humor. About the best
thing m the book is “Photographic Proofs” ; and the
war stories are all good. Of course, there is the
note of exaggeration, but that’s in the game A
fine collection.
The Inky Way
Another troopship (Balmoral) publica-
tion, The Digger on the Deep, floats into
The Bulletin with a new definition:—
A small moustache,
A slender calf,
A little cash,
And on the staff;
A little cane, and there you are—
A perf’ly top-hole officah.
In its answers to correspondents it has
this:
Lass o’ London (inquiry re tail-less sheep).—Their
stalks are left on the Baa-Baa tree when they are
plucked by the butchers.
“J.F.H.” (London) ; Lady Ritchie, the
daughter of Thackeray and a notable novel-
ist herself, recently died, and the Times in-
cidentally mentioned that she once published
a novel in Australia. Anybody remember
that novel or possess a copy?
“T. 0.1.” : The Australasian (established
October 1, 1864) is a combination of four
newspapers-—The Examiner, The Yeoman,
lhe Weekly Argus and Bell’s Life in
Victoria. The first three were established
Edward Wilson. The fourth, acquired
in 1868, was founded in the mid-’fifties, and
in the early ’sixties the Levey brothers
(George, lias just gone west at 85) had in-
terests in it W. M. Akhurst did the
theatres; Graham Garrick the P.R. ; William
Levey (editor) the turf intelligence.
Into the long procession of Billjim’s repre-
sentatives on the Inky Way comes the
Barambah, souvenir of the voyage of the
grimy transport of that name. It has a
rig-ht to be saluted. Vance Palmer’s pen
cuts a swathe in its pages—as in “The
Legacy :
And think you this will be the end?
And do you deem the story done ?
Not while Australian blood shall send
Its pride and heat from sire to son.
There s not a man whose fighting power
... Beneath that iron hail was proved
Who did not in his dying hour
r Raise guardians for'the land he loved'
I wenty-eight pages of good soldier value—
veise, quips, photographs and pen-sketches—
rall-in.
Mack”; I’ve not seen any reference to
the Ist Brigade’s song, “Good-bye.” I first
heard it in Colombo Harbor in November,
14 ' „ In J^ 06 * 6 da ys it was “Good-bye Syd-
ney, and was sung by the 4th Battalion.
He were aboard the Orvieto, and, the 4th
being about 800 yards off, the only words
we could distinguish were “Good-bye, Syd-
th J'v M n acquain tance with it was' in
the Y.M.C.A. Hut at Mena, in January, ’l5,
and it was then “Good-bye, Cairo.” It was
suHg by someivhere about 1100 Diggers, led
by lighting Mac, the 4th’s chaplain, in a
bath of perspiration. I lost touch with it
unui December, ’l7, or thereabouts. We had
nearly finished our day’s march, and
were entering Zuytpeene (Nord), when from
an estaminet floated the strains of “Goou-
bye. Wipers.” The tune was culled (I sus-
pect) from the Salv’army’s Book of Praise,
lhe words—some of them—were written by
Chaplain Mackenzie, and the verses num-
bered 60 or so. “Mademoiselle from Armcn-
tieres, although sung by our chaps, was not
an Australian invention. It was composed
by a Tommy and related to Camille, who
lived ;n the Rue d’Erquinghem. She was a
trail lady who “kept house” and gave half
her takings to the French Red Cross. It
was said that .in April last, when Fritz
pushed in the North, she remained behind in
Armentieres to look after one of her girls
who had been badly wounded by a shell. It
is just the sort of thing she would do.
“0.K.”; Whereas Melbourne has never
known a Sunday newspaper, and is debarred
of the luxury bv a 30-year-old Act of Parlia-
ment, sinful Sydney started its journalism
with a Sunday rag. The first issues of the
Sidney Gazette wer-e published on Satur-
day, but in the fourth week it came out on
the Sabbath and continued to do so for some
years. There were no wowsers in Australia
at that time. But in Hobart Town, where
e very official was. qn immoral law unto him-
self, the authorities were whales for Sabba-
tarianism as regards other fellows. His-
torian Bonwiek quotes a Hobart Town mili-
tary order of February, 1810;
The detachment will attend Divine service at the
usual hour, during the performance of which the
patrole will apprehend all persons found moving
house tOWn ’ th6y WUI be taken t 0 the 8 '
In 1813 the unsober Governor ruled that all
persons neglecting to send their servants to
church should be deprived of assigned ser-
vants. Four years later a man was fined a
pound for driving a bullock-cart through the
streets on a Sunday, all such practices being:
solemnly described as “Profanations of the
s ,.Jr ly - vulgarly and improperly called
Saibath-breakmg.” Sales of wives at auc-
tion were permitted, but the rulers of the
laud insisted on Sunday observance for the
masses. Needless to say, journalism in Van
Diemens Land didn’t begin with a Sunday
newspaper. And it was from there, and not
trom N. S. Wales, that Melbourne got its
first settlers. The spirit of compulsory Sab-
batarianism came up the Yarra with, Fawk-
ner and Batman, and settled on the site of
that Parliament House where the late H«nry
\\ rixon, long years afterwards, carried his
rnti-Snnday paper Bill.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“A.R.” : One of the most hopeful signs in
Australia is the gradual stoppage of waste;
which is to say, the gradual using up of by-
products. Even in the cow industry, which
was for so long carried on under conditions
that killed intelligence in those connected
with it, great improvements are in progress.
In Western Vic. for some time past separ-
ated milk has been run through another pro-
cess and casein extracted. This by-product
is disposed of in bulk to manufacturers of
patent foods, or shipped to America to be
made into collar-studs and celluloid shirt-
cuffs. Now it is proposed to put the whey
left after the cream and casein have been
extracted through yet another process to win
the milk-sugar from it. What remains of
the original cow-juice goes back to fatten up
Blossom’s offspring.
* * * »
“Leonardo” : After three days at Yanko I
came to the conclusion that most of the
settlers have had too much done for them.
I saw one patch of pumpkins, one acre in
extent, and what a crop! To-day this fruit
of the old Hawkesbury is fetching £2O per
ton. This very fact shows that Yanko
settlers don’t use their heads. When every
other farming centre is becoming a dust-
heap, that is Yanko’s chance. Even last
year, when pumpkins grew abundantly, they
were worth £6 10s. a ton. Yanko can grow
rock-melons second to none in the world; yet
I saw only two vines. Any season rock-
melons such as Yanko can produce are worth
anything from 12s. to 18s. per dozen. I
didn’t see enough carrots or p'arsnips or leeks
to make a decent pot of soup. The curse of
the settlement is the single-crop system—the
thing that kept hundreds of the okl Cumber-
land fruitgrowers on the brink of poverty all
their lives. But they, poor devils! had to
trust to luck and the weather. They got Id.
per lb. for their grapes; Yanko settlers aver-
age sd. They got 2s. 6d. per case for
oranges and lemons; Yanko growers get any-
thing up to 40s. The very fact that they
get only 14in. of rain a year is all in their
favor. They have the water and the sun-
shine co-operating to produce whatever is
desired. I will say this: that wherever I
saw a young farmer (they were few and far
between) I saw a prosperous mixed-farm —a
few pigs, fowls, a cow or two, and a decent
kitchen- and flower-gardc-n. But there are
too many older men with a grievance on the
area.
* * * *
“C. 8.” : Linseed could be grown in Aus-
tralia in vast quantities; yet we annually
import thousands of tons of seed, oil and
fibre grown in India by coolie labor. In
1917-18 the Argentine seeded 3,233,609
acres; two years before India had 2,683,000
acres, the United States in 1917 cultivated
1,809,000 and Canada annually sows about
800,000. In Australia the plant is practi-
cally uncultivated. Last year the two
largest mills in the Commonwealth were idle
for some time because the Indian Govern-
ment had placed an embargo on the exporta-
tion of the seed. There is a duty of Bd. a
gallon on oil to stimulate the local manu-
facturer, but the producer of the raw goods
gets no Protection. As it is improbable
that Russia, Courland and Roumania will
resume production on the pre-war scale for
years, an adequate duty might enable the
Australian to not only supply its own re-
quirements but also work up a profitable
export trade. In 1916 Britain alone im-
ported flax, linseed and linseed-meal w T orth
£13,000,000.
* * * *
“S. Q. Whyffe” : My wife has just bought
a bottle of olives. Good goods, well shown,
but foreign. Cost, including a paralysing
art label, per berry. Can’t S. Aus. beat
that?
* * * #
“Alick Sandria”: Shut the door and whis-
per. _ As far as Egypt was concerned
Flossie played her part in financing the
war. She had a wonderful knowledge of
rates of military pay, and when the men of
the desert came in search of recreation she
could tell them quicker than they could
figure it themselves how much they had to
collect. It wouldn’t be fair even to guess
at the number of Diggers to whom she was
more like an uncle than a siren, and gene-
s^e asked no more security than a word
or honor. I’ve known one frail sister
advance as much as £2O to one frail brother*.
fU*.-— 1 don’t know how* much of the £2O the
t.b. finally got away w T ith.
BREAD, AND THE CIRCUS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To prove its wholesomeness, N. S. Dales Premier
Holman had a sample of bread baked. The chemi-
cal analysis yields the following results:—
Moisture 43.2 p . c .
Ash . . . . . . . . . . i
Ash, insoluble in hydrochloric acid .02 ”
Acidity, expressed in cubic centi-
metres of decinormal sodium
hydroxide . . . . .. 1.9
These results are in accordance with regulation 20
(3) issued under the provisions of the Pure Pood
Act of 1908.
I am an artless swagman of the wilds;
I scorn the city and its gross devices;
My needs are simple as a little child’s—
A crust of bread with lots of beer suffices.
I like my damper to retain a dash
Of gravel, to prevent its being flaccid,
With point-nought-two of good tobacco ash
Insoluble in hydrochloric acid.
The right acidity must be supplied,
Expressed in simple cubic, centimetres
Of decinormal sodium hydroxide—
A one-point-nine suits scientific eaters
Sufficient moisture is essential, too;
A drought I loathe, and drynesa causes colic.
Say, cent.-per-cent, of something wet will do
(The wetness must, of course, he alcoholic).
The simple life for me, with none to chide,
Unvexed by sordid Pure Food legislation;
Matilda for my mistress, true and tried,
Free from political sophistication!
N.S.W.
NORMAN CAMPBELL.


MEGGITT LIMITED'S
MAP QF
3»
•••»
e :
f i
m
g)>
kP vv-
iyy^
e
LU
HC
CC
* i
i/^A/y
KAiuw/VfS
n
i
*
hr
i
mi
■ iff!
ilium
imwmwimwim
■ ib
N
M
To remind all good Australians that the only firm of Meggitt Limited, who established at Parramatta the Pioneer Linseed Oil and Linseed Oil
Meal industry of the Southern Hemisphere, have recently increased their facilities of manufacture. The additions effected enable us to
guarantee improvements in our products, which are now recognised as the ‘'Standard of Quality.”
Meggitt Limited’s Genuine Linseed Oil. IVSaturity “par excellence.”
Meggitt Limited’s Pure Linseed Oil Meal. Purity “par excellence.”
Maintain Australian Industry and Keep Your Money in the Country. pamphlet no. 2, instructing how to feed, mailed free.
Full particulars from Agents: Messrs. R. S. Exton & 00., Queen Street, Brisbane; Messrs. Harrisons, Ramsay Ltd., 666 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
Messrs. W. Adams & Co., King Street, Perth; Messrs. Clarkson Ltd., Bundle Street,.Adelaide; Messrs. F. W. Heritage & Co., Launceston and
Hobart; or
M EGG ITT LTD.
WORKS: PARRAMATTA.
(The Pioneer Linseed Oil and Linseed Oil Meal
Manufacturers of Australia),
26 Ring' Street, SYDNEY
MEGGITTS
[)NSEEDOIIIf(J
m\
The Hoy on the Bag
guarantees quality.


Wool
Men!
Aerial transport may come.
But meantime Rail or Ship
your WOOL to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Sydney OR Brisbane. LTD.
For the
Motor-
cycle
NATIONAL
MOTOR OILS
assure a service of perfec-
tion and definite economy
under all conditions.
They are even-flowing, clean,
with high flash-point and
remarkable viscocity.
OBTAINABLE ALL GARAGES
AND STOREKEEPERS
in 1-gallon Tins, 4-gallon Tins
and Barrels. Ask also for
National Motor Greases.
NATIONAL OIL CO. LTD.,
4 Bridge Street, Sydney.
JAMES WARDLE & CO., Adelaide.
a*q
e|quinio3
Strength and Reliability
■re of paramount importance in batteries. Both of these
features are to be found in the Columbia, For all
round service they are positively unequaled.
If you need dependable current to run your motor car.
ioive the Columbia a trial. You,will never regfet it, and
we are sure you will become a Columbia enthusiast.
They are suitable for either heavy or light work.
If you are looking for current to ring bells; operate
telephones and signals: light lanterns; ignite tractors
or motor boats, use Columbia Batteries.
Satisfaction is guaranteed when you purchase Colum-
bia*. They are backed by more than a quarter of a
century’s knowledge of battery
manufacture.
Special attention is given to the
all-important detail of packing
for export.
The Fahnestock Spring Clip
Binding Post, shown in the illus-
tration. is a Columbia feature
that sells With this
Binding Post it is simply a matter
NO. 6
fnCUMBiQ
WW
PRY CEa
WWM FOR lU.IHKI.
general ignition
■Marofactured by
IfIKWAL CARBON COJ*
w
J»V
L/
ft
o*m
Y
r
V,
/
of pressing
down the spring
and insertin g
the wire and
the connection
is made.
PRESS
DOWN
HE.R&
DEALERS— lmmediate deliveries
can be made. Write for cata-
logues and details.
National Carbon Co., Inc*
Export Department
Cleveland, Ohio, (J.S.A.
Cable Add-: "Carbon Cleveland”
Electrical Wiremen
and Contractors.
Ask Your Supply House for
“Expanse” Conduit Fittings
I" Tees | Elbows
f" Couplings
MALLEABLE GRIP FITTINGS EQUAL TO
THE BEST IMPORTED.
MANUFACTURED BY
THE AUSTRALECTRIC COMPANY,
97 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Telegrams: EXPANSE. SYDNEY. 'Phones: }I|J[CITY.
TT~I ~ HI
ZINC
HIGH-GRADE ZINC DUST
Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
bhas.
BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION -for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS:
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited
“Collins House,” 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sydney Agrent:
R. N. KIRK, 25 O’Connell Street,
Adelaide Agent:
A. W. LEWIS* 62 Brooltman Buildingg.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BV
APPOINTMENT
TO
M.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
PRICE 1/3 PER BOTTLE.
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Etc.
SCRUBS & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
The Unrivalled War Service
of the Federal Motor Lorry
Every one of the Allied Governments and five departments of the United State 3
Government found vital need for the superb service of the Federal during the war.
Federal Motor Lorries are now available for general use. Immediate delivery
to any part of the world.
The Federal has achieved an enviable record —for its durability, efficiency and
low operating costs.
Perfect in mechanical construction.
1 Ton, $l9OO
ty* Ton, $2350
2 Ton, $2690
iy 2 Ton, $3350
5 Ton, $4400
F. 0.8. Detroit.
a
;V4
m
Federal Motor Truck Company
Factory—Detroit, Mich., U. S. A. Foreign Dept.— lB Broadway, New York, U. S. A.
553
Mentioning the death of A. G. Ilotli, The
Bulletin said that he had missed getting
into the Baptist ministry. As a matter of
fact, he was in the ministry for some yeais,
but retired.
“D.F.”: Jervis Bay, the Federal port,
came into notice as a harbor as eaily as
1791 The Matilda, which came as a trans-
port'in the “Third Fleet,” took a run down
south to look for seals, the first attempt at
sealing by a vessel sailing out of Sydney.
She did not see any, but ran into a gale,
and put into Jervis Bay to stop a leak, lne
captain reported that there was exceedir g y
good anchorage and “room for the large
ships to work in or out with great safety.
Of the Forrest Ministries which ran
Westralia prior to Federation the only repre-
sentatives still in Parliament are Edward
Wittenoom and Henry Lefroy. The Leake
Ministry, which followed Forrests, has two
left, Kingsmill and Holmes. The James
Cabinet, which was the next to take control,
has a sole survivor, Gardiner. Ihe first
Labor Government, under Daglish, which
took control from James's party in IJU4,
has a couple of members still in the House,
Taylor and Holman.
“Cazna.”: The Repatriation Department
has turned down the hand-weaving of
“Anzac” tweeds as an occupation for. re-
turned soldiers on the ground that it is a
“dead-end” job. Quite right. The stuff
they were turning out in Melbourne wears
so well that it threatened, before the Depart-
ment kindly took a hand, to ruin its own
market by lasting too long. I know because
I have a suit of it, and no matter how much
knocking about it gets it won’t even start
to go to pieces. What’s going to happen to
the price of shoddy if the making of that
sort of stuff is encouraged? It has not
even the merit of being excessively high-
priced.
“U.P.” : S. Aus. rabbits are in for a bad
time, notwithstanding that the drought has
broken and feed and water are plentiful.
CO2 gas having been found effective in the
destruction of weevil in wheat, a machine
has been made for the purpose of conferring
the same favor on bunny. The gas quickly
finds it way through the largest burrows, and
means certain death to all inmates; further,
after the gas has been forced into the
burrows no attempt -is made to reopen
them. The process is very economical. The
cost of the gas is the price of the firewood
used —about 2cwt. a day for a machine capa-
ble of gassing 20 burrows —plus petrol to
work a 1-li.p. engine, a horse to pull the
machine around the paddock and a man to
read the funeral service.
“Club Bore” : Melbourne is a city of in-
appropriately named clubs. The Melbourne
possesses the smallest proportion of Mel-
bourne members, being the Mecca of the
woolly Western District and the Aus-
tralian address of the absentee land-
lord. The Yorick is a meeting place
for neither jesters nor actors. The Green-
room’s actors are easilv outnumbered by
persons who would not know a stick
of No. 2 from an eyebrow pencil. The
Athenaeum relies for its membership chiefly
upon the ancient lights of law, commerce
and industry. And opposite the Athenaeum
stands the exclusive Bohemian, the lair of
burghers of heavy financial tonnage, where
the odor of garlic would be as out of place
as a dog fight in a cathedral.
Allen Taylor’s timber co. has sold its fleet
of little boats to the North Coast S. N. Co.,
and presumably that vigorous concern will
now push harder into the coastal timber trade.
It is one of the oldest in N. S. Wales.
Cedar-cutters were working on the Shoal-
haven at least as early as 1812, seven years
after the first exploration of the river by
Lieutenant Kent. In 1812 six schooners —
the Geordy, the Mary Anne, the Endeavor,
the William and Anne, the Windsor and the
Cumberland —were bringing logs to Sydney.
Early in 3813 the Whale, the Mary and
Sally and the Speedwell went into the same
trade, and in the first three months of the
year' 272 tons of cedar were landed at
Sydney. Later in the year sawpits must
have been put in at the Shoalhaven, for
cedar then appears in the returns not as
so many logs but as so many feet.
“E. J.H.”: More than once I have been
present at the wine-tasting at the Sydney
It.A.S. Ground. There I have sampled
wines, (as I have done in Britain) and found
them Very good. But when I ordered wines
bearing a similar label in Sydney I did not
get anything like the Show liquors. This sort
of thing does not encourage a man tp take
to wine in place of whisky. One of the great-
est mistakes, to my mind, is the capping of
bottles with lead capsules instead of sealing-
wax. In France, for instance, if mine host
suggests “a bottle of Cambertin with the
yellow seal,” you know what you are going
to get. Here, lead capsules are slipped
over the cork, not even making the bottle
airtight in case the plug gives out. I was
in a hotel recently and asked for a certain
whisky. The girl pulled the cork, assuring
me that it was a new bottle and I would
get a whisky “true to label.” I asked to
look at the cork, and the one she pulled out
of the bottle and handed me bore the name,
burnt into it, of a well-known firm of French
brandy-sellers! The same thing can be and
no doubt is done with our wine.
“Smith”: It was my first time in the line
and Fritz was lobbing them over pretty
thick. Near me was a thin post, upright
in the ground, on top of which a piece of
silk gave us the office as to the way of the
wind in case of gas. A rat, which evi-
dently had the wind up, climbed the post,
and every time a shell exploded he jumped
about a foot into the air, landing on top
of the post again—the finest acrobatic act
I have ever seen. When things quietened
down a Digger murdered our friend; but
who could resist such a shot? Another
time I sneaked down to cooky to cadge a
drink and nearly dropped dead on finding
a platoon of rats lined up, with old Dad
Rat dishing out our rations. The only way
we could keep our tucker in that part of the
line was to stow it in our mess-tins. Rat-
shooting was permitted, and many a rat got
something that had been bought specially for
Fritzie.


DELCO - LIGHT
Provides Electric Light for Country Homes, Churches, Hospitals, Schools of Arts, etc.
[ HlHl'llllirai |
DELCO-LIGHT Pays for Itself.
Ash the Man Who Owns One.
suaamsmmmmmmmezsmmmzxwj. n imwii niwtfiww'BffTiwwmn mu inl ■—me—a—hi hhwiiiii binm n« tmiin 1 1 ■\n i mi 1 i praxis iMrra.*)»ram-ttMrfiTOMu-Lm'Liir»-rTM’rri n ■mu uattmiw inwaraai
RlinS 00. RcrOSCIiC one gallon of which will light 32 Electric
■ Lamps for 5 Hours. Besides furnishing
plenty of clean, brilliant light, it will operate Fans and Small
Motors for Household Work, Dentists’ Motors, etc.
Lowest
First Cost
Lowest
Running Cost
Ij:
H
■«i >:»
*r
m
M
m
■
n
■
Plfißj-S
an
USES
VI
«►*
I
■MigiS
BB
:
wMltiU,
■
The Deico-Light Engine and Generator
which generates Electricity.
The Delco-Light Battery in which
the Electricity is stored.
Satisfaction
guaranteed
wherever
installed
DELCO-UGHT IS SIMPLE.
DELCO-LIGHT consists of an engine, generator,
switchboard and set of batteries. The engine
and generator are direct connected, which does
away with any transmission losses or belt trouble, in-
creasing the efficiency of the machine. The storage
battery is of the special Delco-Light type, consisting of
sixteen glass jar cells, delivering 32-volt current. Unless
the demand for light and power is very heavy, it is
unnecessary to run the engine, except when the storage-
battery requires recharging.
Electricity is stored up in the battery by means of
the generating unit. Wires lead from the light and power
connections to this storage-battery, from which electric
current is used as desired for light or power.
0U Delco-Light to be a model of simplicity.
When it becomes necessary to re-charge the battery the
engine is started by merely pressing on the starting-
switch located on the switchboard. This electrically
cranks the engine, just as the automobile engine is
EFFICIENT and DURABLE.
cranked by an electric self-starter. The engine starts
running on its own power in a few seconds. It can then
be left to itself, as when the battery is completely charged
the Delco-Light engine stops automatically.
The supply of kerosene is regulated by means of
a simple lever-operated mixing valve. Moving the lever
to the right or left regulates the supply of fuel.
There is only one place to put oil. The crank case
is designed to hold about three quarts of oil, and a rapidly
revolving gear carries a fine spray to all parts requiring
lubrication.
The reliability of Delco-Light has been proved through
actual service under trying conditions. It has been
thoroughly tested in every possible way, both in the shop
and in practical service on "the farm and in the home.
Nothing has been left to chance. The tests have been
more severe than any service an owner would require.
Delco-Light is made by the same Works which have
Delco-Lighted and started over one million Motor-cars.
See Plant in Operation or write for Full Particulars to Sole Agents-
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Warburton,
Fraaki Ltd.,
307-311 KENT STREET.
SYDNEY.
VICTORIA 8 TASMANIA
War burton,
Franki Ltd.,
380-382 BOURKE STREET
MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND:
Smellie 8 Co.
Ltd.,
BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Parsons 8
Robertson Ltd.,
GRENFELL STREET,
I ADELAIDE.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Geo. Wills
and Co.,
PERTH.
NEW ZEALAND:
A. D. RILEY gCO. LTD.
WELLINGTON.
FARMERS’ CO-OP. Assn
CHRISTCHURCH.


nutes
for this job.
Look at it!
THE Gisholt Turret Lathe is a positive profit-
maker for machine-shops because of the
many devices which it embodies for lower-
ing costs on all classes of work.
The use of the tool post ancl turret simultaneously is
one of them, and the illustration here shows this prac-
tice in connection with machining the back plate of a
24-inch cast-iron scroll chuck, which had to be
finished within very close limits.
The simultaneous use of the tool post and turret
enabled this job to be finished in 19 minutes. And
the job, when finished, w r as practically right for
immediate assembling, which is a true test of effici-
ency for such a machine tool. The Gisholt is so
perfect, and work is finished to such a degree of
accuracy, that hand w'ork is practically eliminated.
We are at your service any time with information on
the service which the Gisholt Turret Lathe can render
on your particular work. Our business is to convince
you, and we can. Special Booklet dealing with this
machine forwarded on request, also regarding Le
Blond Lathes, Warner and Swasey Lathes, South Bend
Lathes, Le Blond Millers, Prentice Radial Drills,
Landis Screwers.
Benson Brothers Ltd.
76-78 Liverpool Street, SYDNEY.
71-75 Queen’s Bridge St., SOUTH MELBOURNE.
138 Currie Street, ADELAIDE.
&
&
a*
L*
- «unj. «fc
9101 OJOO
f aiofl —X
Js<
'dnj.9s
J__J
r
-J i
SOLE AGENTS
for
Thomson
Electric
Welding
Machine.
The most reliable
Steam Fitting's are
HOPKINSON
VALVES and
Boiler Mounting's.
Hopkinson “Mac” Valve.
HfHESE well-known British Steam Specialties are accepted as standard leading
* engineers the World over.
Hopkinson Quality is a guarantee that your plant will be “Steam Tight,” with a high
Mi
Hopkinson “ Ferranti ” Patent Stop Valve.
margin of safety and low maintenance cost.
Renewable Seats and Discs of Platnam
Metal, which is as hard as nickel steel and
eliminates all scoring of the valve and seat.
Exclusive designs and high-grade workmanship.
Hopkinson “Mac” Valve for superheated steam and
bad waters. Straight through and angle types with screw
or flange connections. Inside or outside spindle. Stock
sizes up to 3-inch.
Hopkinson “Ferranti” Patent Stop Valve accepted uni-
versally as the finest valve for high-pressure work. Easily
surpasses the full-bore valve. In cast-iron and cast-steel,
from 4-inch upwards.
Hopkinson Parallel Slide Blow-off Valves, Isolation Valves
and Steam Traps, the latter having been adopted extensively
by Australian Government Power Houses and large steam
users.
Large Stocks. Write for Illustrated Catalogue of Engi-
neering Requirements.
NOYES BROS.
(Sydney) Ltd.: 115 Clarence St, Sydney.
(Melbourne) Pty. Ltd.; 499-501 Bourke St.,Melbourne.
And Darling Building, Adelaide.
Selling Agent: C Has. E. Ber nays, Brisbane.
Yes, wages have risen. S. Australia’s |
first judge. John Jeffcott, received £5OO a
year, and Mann, the Crown Solicitor, £3OO.
“Ivaylee”: On the Gundagai-Tumut
(N.S.W.) line I met a man who had never
previously travelled in a train. Yet,
strangely enough, many years before, he had
helped to build the line, and the train that
went over the rails he assisted in putting
down was the first he ever saw. “But I
never thought the darn thing would run,”
he told me.
T. G. Jones, the alert young lawyer who
helped Tom Johnson conduct the inquiry into
the working of the Vic. railways, has thrown
up his job with the Crown Law Department
and nailec] up his own plate. Two or three
cases a week and he will have a better show-
ing than the £5 a week at which the Public
Service Commissioner valued him under the
regulations.
“Dug”: Wealthy Americans are showing
a disposition to turn to Havana for a drink.
But a young Cuban Congressman, Cecilio
Acosta, resents the home of cigars and cubebs
being turned into a relief depot for the
thirsty gringo; wherefore lie has prepared a
bill to make Cuba as dry as the U.S.A. At
present in Havana you can find cafes selling
joy-juice in every city block, and there is
surprisingly little drunkenness. Indeed it
has been argued that Havana proves that
unrestricted liquoring tends to make men
temperate rather than intemperate. Pretty
soon the Yankee hard-drinker will have to
try Mexico. And there the local populace
love him so that he is likely to be handed
poison.
“Y.Z.,” after paying a doctor’s bill: —
A little time back various contributors were
recommending certain South Sea gargles to ordinary
civilised humanity as a means of avoiding ’flu and
bronchial troubles of one sort and another. The
simple reader was called upon to fill his head with
sea-water and other concoctions, and convert hirnself
into a human syphon, squirting a Steady stream in
at his mouth and out via the nostrils. I hope I
am in time to prevent rash experiments in this
direction. Such violent exercises may be excellent
for tough products in the savage lands, hut the
average son of civilisation is not possessed of a
throat like an asphalt track, and the earliest conse-
quence of his efforts to convert his air-passages into
sluices for more or less biting chemical compounds
would probably he an attack of laryngitis. The ’flu
epidemic has led to an immense amount of pro-
miscuous gargling, with the result that when the
doctor is not paddling after a ’flu patient he is
busy over a sufferer who has got his throat and
tonsils into a pitiful state of inflammation and
ulceration through laving his breathing apparatus
with unfamiliar fluids.
“Petcrkin” (A.1.F., London) : America’s
challenge to Great Britain for the world’s
maritime supremacy should make Australia
sit up in bed and ask what time it is. Before
the war America’s merchant tonnage was
approximately 2,400,000 as against Eng-
land’s 18.000,000. British war losses were
about 9,000,000 tons, of which roughly
4.500,000 tons have been replaced by new
ships, giving a total of nearly 14,000.000
ions.. But America has increased her mer-
cantile marine to 7.500,000 lons, exclusive of
interned enemy vessels, which she appears to
intend appropriating. Her war losses were
very small. She is now building far more
rapidly than Britain, where industrial dis-
putes and military exigencies have done
much to cripple the output. At Win. Dox-
ford’s Sunderland yards, where they used
almost to build ships by the mile and cut off
lengths to suit purchasers, the keels laid
down are fewer than before the war. largely
owing to go-slow methods. The U.S. Ship-
ping Comptroller is now in these parts with
the avowed objecc of inducing European
shipowners to adopt a uniform scale of
freightage, wages, etc., and as the Morgan
merger already holds a controlling interest
in certain spheres in the White Star, Ley-
land and other nominally British lines, the
inference is that Wall-street may soon be
dictating how much a bushel or a bale it shall
cost to carry Australian wheat and wool to
Europe ; and when Wall-street gets a mon-
opoly. experience with oil, harvesters and
tinned ’ cow has taught ns what to expect.
Hughes has done many feebler things than
lay in a stock of Commonwealth ships, and
the more bottoms Australia has to carry
goods out and home the better for us all.
“Henry Horsecollar” takes the sky-road :
The first aerial attempt at crossing the North
Atlantic was always expected to prove a matter of
trouble. The North Atlantic is a cold and heaving
and sunless thing, where the sea is grey, except the
tops, which are white, but is seldom blue, and never
very blue. It is the place of the great wrecks. Even
whales break their backs balancing on two big
waves. When there are great winds there are no
fogs, and when there are great fogs there is seldom
much wind. It is generally cold on the surface
where the ships always go, and it is cold beneath the
surface where the ships often go, and it is beastly
cold high above the surface where the airships mean
to go. The first people who grew a religion along-
side the North Atlantic had a cold hell because cold
was the thing they saw most of and liked least. The
worst thing they wished their worst enemy was
plenty of their own weather. Some places along
the shores are thickly peopled, but only because
there is coal there to keep people warm. When the
coal runs out Glasgow will he dug up and taken to
Egypt, though hunters will visit the old spot in
summer. The Strait of Dover is a humble pup of
the big, mad-dog ocean, and the first flier who crossed
it waited many days for good weather. That cross-
ing has become a matter of course now, as the one
from New York to England will in time, but the
latter will always be liable to swallow a Titanic or
two every year, through collision with an extra-large
hailstone —the kind that is an iceberg dropped from
Heaven. Australia, partly by reason of its disad-
vantages, is likely to be the ideal land for air-travel.
Over a great part of it for a great part of the year
things will be pleasantly warm above because they
are a trifle hot below. There are no fogs to bewilder
the sky-pilot because there isn’t enough rain to make
fog, and one reason why there isn’t enough rain is
that there aren’t sufficient mountains for the pilot
to bump against in the dark. All the seas that
have to be crossed on the way to Asia, Africa and
Europe are narrow, and even on the way to America,
if anyone wants to go there, Providence has pro-
vided a fair number of stepping-stones, some of
them with very sharp points and very sharp brown
girla.


“CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
At the War.
j i f%3§§
■"I 1 f
■v
lITi
W-C-
-L—. V£ * KMQ
, v%.< y4-'% ' s - - -•■ ■ - -
fe> '\ • •- , l
/X r'v^--' v f \
U;*\ * ~ f _ i
r-. *s ,
,<■ “'V
‘ji ’C*i\ ‘ i
/; / ’v.' M >
'' V W~~/
"WttSßssasaaßßwsßw.
s \'~ *^“ a SXS555& w
z>,
1H
H 1
•*>S «*)•»*
*****
n U<
■'V’
4 y/'
I
-
1
x^'
afe*
T-
v **4>« -\. $* s,*
i ■"* >««" • .v->. ~..., ~.
#tef M»;
jri
-..
■ t
'>■ A**-^
I ' . ■
Jtuors*
(kX--~ _.. :
;£&****■
If--'"
*£0(. ..,
4
/*%£<
r>\
r,^ s
«?#*
L6ys33*rj
"/- ' •*;.. • j
# SSSWJj
4n ' ' " /
y A "
*-y£S^ ss! 2S^
v;
i«s
Hi® 3 *
7
/
II
Cobra,” Boot Polish
Chunder Loo,
Of Alcim Foo,
Keeps the Rhine watch
Strictly, too.
H ere we have
The “COBRA” Three
At the rate
o
Of Germany.
“Cleaned ’em up !”
Our soldiers say.
“Fritz must keep
The peace and pay.
Foch has placed
FI is battle-lines ;
Victory, like
‘COBRA,’ shines.”


o
0
Wind Roughened Skins
Soothed by Cuticura
When you return from your auto
ride smear the face and rub the
hands with Cuticura Ointment. Wash
off in five minutes with Cuticura Soap
,and hot water, using plenty of Soap,
best applied with the .hands, and con-
tinue bathing three minutes.
Soap to cleanse and Ointment to head.
Tl.Tqwii»‘4 Co., Sydney, N. S. W." Sold
by dealers throughout the world.
Influenza.
“PLENTY OF MILK” is the doctors’
advice in all cases of influenza.
FRESH MILK modified by
Mellins Food
forms the best diet throughout the
course of the attack and in convales-
cence, because it is more palatable,
more easily digested and therefore
more nourishing than milk alone.
OF ALL CHEMISTS AND
STORES.
Price 2/6 per large bottle.
Sample and booklet free on request.
Mellins Food Ltd.,
Colling wood.
AGENTS:—
GOLLIN & CO. PROPY. LTD., Melbourne,
Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane.
CARTRIDGES
Always Reliable
■
m
m
fig
II
n
si
‘ELEY Smokeless’
A Cerise Cartridge
loaded with Eley
42-grain Smoke-
less Powder and
\IJ oz. shot.
Millions sold
V annually.
ELEY
E.B. ‘Nitro*
Cartridge C se
loaded with
Schultze or any
other Standard
Smokeless Powde
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
ELE Y BROS. L° LONDON
“T~\ RAWING FOR PLEASURE AND PROFIT”:
starting May 15 in The Soldier. Subscribe
now. 14/- per year. 20 Loftus Street, Sydney.
NEURALGIA!
It is so easy to catch those debilitat-
ing Colds, Influenza, Rheumatism,
Neuralgia, etc. Help yourself to
avoid these by taking
Dhosforino
1 THE ROYAITONIC
PROVED FOR 50 YEARS
All Chemists
1/. . 2/6 - 4/0
Ashton & Parsons Ltd.
London and Melbourne
HIGH-GRADE SHEET METALS
BRAND
BRAND
BRASS, COPPER. NICKEL SILVER
ALUMINIUM, GILDING METAL
MANUFACTURED BY
THE COLONIAL AMMUNITION CO. LTD.
GORDON STREET, FOOTSCRAY, Vic.
Obtainable from all the leading Hardware Houses in the Commonwealth.
SALES OFFICES;
VICTORIA —Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne - - Phone Central 1995
NEW SOUTH WALES-58 Pitt Street, Sydney - - - Phone City 2677
QUEENSLAND— Campbell’s Buildings, Creek Street, Brisbane Phone 2382
ORDER YOUR POST-WAR
SUNBEAM NOW.
Orders for the Sunbeam car for delivery as soon as we
are able to again cater for private owners are reaching
us from all parts of the world. Never before indeed has
the demand been so extensive. It is the purpose of this
announcement, therefore, to advise you that, if you
intend to become a future owner of the world famous
SUNBEAM
you should lose no time in ordering now. The intention
to purchase a Sunbeam is alone not sufficient to ensure
early delivery. Only your instructions now will do that.
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR Co., Ltd.,
Export Department • 54-62, Oxford Street, London, England.
Head Office •-«••• Wolverhampton, England.
Major Blair Wark, \.0., D. 5.0., one ° f
the two officers who were selected from the
army corps to conduct a party of 40 Ameri-
can generals over the battlefields 1 ranee
and Belgium, is a son of Mrs. Wark, of
Greylands, North Sydney.
Bowser, Vic. Chief Secretary, who has
been on sick-leave, is returning to work, but
McWhae is to continue to be O.C. in the
campaign against influenza. He has ap-
pointed several adjutants, and the Ministry
wants to give him a reasonable chance with
his enveloping movement.
Mention of the Vic. members whose fathers
sat in either State House recalls that the
two Clarkes had a grandfather, Peter Snod-
grass, who was notorious in the Assembly as
a mover of amendments. Charles Jardine
Don, the first Labor member, who hated the
squatters and all their kin, became exas-
perated one night when Snodgrass was try-
ing to have a clause altered. “If,” Don
growled, “the honorable member had been
present when Moses brought down the Tables
of the Law, he wouldn’t have let a clause
pass without a challenge.”
“Hamer”: One or two of the Australian
V.C.’s have succeeded in annoying London.
The champion nuisance was the hero who
formed the habit of inviting casual pub
acquaintances to stagger along and see him
turn out the guard at the Horse Guards.
The turning out of the guard is an honor
a V.C. can claim; but this bird made a
cheap sideshow of the affair for the delight
of his boozing cobbers. At last, at the
urgent request of the War Office, he was
recalled from leave, and shot back to France
with great velocity.
Tudor’s bitter complaint that the amuse-
ment tax on picture-show admission was a
device far “robbing the kiddies” is knocked
flat by statistics. In Melbourne, where
Tudor lives, moves and draws his salary, the
attendances of children at Saturday-after-
noon performances have diminished, although
these performances are exempt from all taxa-
tion. As for the cruel wrong done to in-
fancy, the official report states that, outside
of Saturday afternoon shows, 90 per cent,
of the threepenny admissions are for adults
attending continuous pictures, which suggests
that quite a lot of Melbourne has stacks of
time to burn during the day.
“Melb.” : Acting Chief Secretary McWhae,
M.L.C., is Australian-born, of Dumfries
parents. His father was one of five sons,
all sailors, but dad went to the Ballarat
diggings and made a fortune, which enabled
him to revisit Scotland, with his family.
They returned to Australia when Jack was
13, and he started as a Union Bank clerk.
After eight years with the ledgers he went
on the Ballarat Stock Exchange. The sil-
ver boom caused his transfer to Melbourne,
where he rose to be chairman, and piloted
“the room” for six years, including the most
difficult time after the land smash. Twice
he received the thanks of Parliament for
negotiating loans at awkward angles.
While South Aus. went into the ship-
building business as early as 1803, when
Pendleton and his Yankees built the 40-ton
schooner Independence on Kangaroo Island,
the first permanent settler seems to have
blown in about 1812. This was an ex-
seaman named, or nicknamed, Abyssinia,
who went into the sealing business on Kan-
garoo Island. In 1826 Abyssinia was still
there, and new settlers had come in, making
about 40 persons with the women and chil-
dren—that was 10 years before the colony
was “proclaimed.” Once a year or so
a schooner from Sydney blew in and the
inhabitants bartered their sealskins, wallaby
and kangaroo pelts, oil and odds and ends
for rum, tobacco and coins, the last to make
ear-rings from, for they hadn’t any other use.
G. D. Delprat, the Dutchman who is
general-manager of the Broken Hill Prop.,
the biggest industrial concern in the Com-
monwealth, says in the first number of the
"Institute of Science and Industries’ Jour-
nal” :
I have had many scientifically-trained men of
various nationalities working with me, and have no
hesitation in saying that, generally, the British and
Australians had the poorest scientific equipment of
any of them.
But what else could you expect? Britain
adopted Freetrade in the generation before
last; and, though it has hung on to some of
its old industries—not all of them —the
newer ones have made far greater progress
elsewhere. Australia didn’t have any old
skilled trades which the father might
teach the son; therefore it has pot-
tered along at jobs which call for
nothing much besides physical strength.
There are no big manufactures to pay for
technical training. Metallurgy and mining
engineering have recompensed a few; but
the field is limited, and was long since so
over-run that even in this line trained men
by the score have had to seek jobs outside.
“Yedyah” writes:—
lie “Politician’s” letter (B. 17/4/’l9) in which
he says treating the sale of public land as revenue
is a commercial fraud; they are alienating capi-
tal. Is not this a fallacy ? The State gets a land-
holder whom it can and does tax. The landholder is
just as much capital to the State as the land alien-
ated. The purchase price, i.e., the fee paid by the
purchaser to the State for the right of exclusive use,
is thus fairly revenue.
The other way of putting it is as follows:
N. S. Wales (which is taken as a specially favor-
able example because it raises more land-sale money
than all the other States put together) collected
about £1,000,000 a year land-sale money in 1918.
It spent over £2,000,000 loan money on railways to
help open up land and keep the revenue going. Most
of these railways had to be subsidised out of taxes
because they didn’t pay expenses and interest. A
lot of money had also to be spent out of revenue for
roads in order to earn the £1,000,000. The new
settlers pay hardly any income-tax and very little
land-tax because they are small men and inside the
exemption limit, though they pay some trifle of
customs to the Commonwealth. Very often they
don’t pay enough to maintain the local bobby and
other essentials. Therefore it seems a fair thing to
apply the land-buyers’ money towards the expenses
(raflways’ etc.), of putting the buyers on the land.
■ en l * < ;° sts £2 to earn £l, it seems rather rough
+n SP T , the £1 and chai 'B' e the £2 to posterity on
nrofit°,w ChanC !u th f the transaction will be highly
proatdble m the future.


Stopain Toothache Gum
Instantly Ends The Ache
And Helps Save The Tooth.
Don’t put up with toothache a minUtC; You
don’t have to. Just put a little piece of Stopaiii
Toothache Gum in the cavity, or around thd
tooth and all pain is gone as if by magic.
u
Let STOPAIN Stop That Boring Pain.
It fills up the cavity, excluding the air, and
stopping the mouth acids from acting on the
frantic, jumping nerve; hardens quickly, and
forms a serviceable filling that will last for a
long time—until you are ready to have a per-
manent filling put in.
Why punish yourself ? Why endure the
agony of toothache when a shilling box of
Stopairi TbOthache Gum will quickly restore
your peace of mind ?
Keep it on hand for emergencies;
Stopain Toothache Gum is sold by most
medicine vendors at a shilling a box, or sent
direct upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
520-528 Riley Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Coins Quickly.
At last a real ‘ does what it says ’ Corn Cure;
nothing like it or just -s good has ever been
known.
Every man or woman who has corns, warts
or bunions Ought to try Handy Corn Cure at
OnCe and see how marvellously it works. Quit
shaving ybur corn with a razor. YoumaydtaW
blood and cause blood-poisoning.
OF
m
er‘" w \
i (
Handy Corn Cure wiil get rid of every corn
you Itave got without pain or discomfort.
Handy Corn Cure is remarkable because it
never irritates or turns the true flesh sore or
raw. It can’t—it’s that antiseptic, safe and
harmless. The corn shrivels up and comes out.
1/- Per Box everywhere. Posted free by
Sunset Drug C 0.., 520-528 Riley-st., Sydney.
appals
w
r
m
m.
m
k
(\o
\0
£
u
HAMBERM
COUCH
(oujSs Colds
CTOUP
( Mr
>»
to
s2fi2
§
Cfcf
a
o
S
BoxSSfiti
|WBi
50 f* «^. C S
—lff/
SCCbJ
Influenza is about—lock
your door at once with
Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy.
It will drive away coughs, colds and
croup, and keep the germs of influenza
from your home.
Don’t a bottle to-day.
Jci JfecJtA
COUGH REMEDY"
Diarrhoea.
Diarrhoea attacks all ages, and is equally
fatal to young and old. The great danger in
this disease is due to the frequent lack of
proper treatment in the first stages. Chamber-
lain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy is a reliable
and effective medicine, and if given in time
will prevent serious results. It never fails, and
is pleasant td take. Every household should
have a bottle on hand. Get it today. Cham-
berlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy taken at
the first unusual looseness of the bowels will
save suffering and anxiety—and loss of both
ime and money.
Take It With You.
The importance of having a bottle of Cham-
berlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy weh
them is realised by experienced travellers, as
this medicine cannot be bought on the train or
steamship. Change of water and diet .often
deranges tbe stomach and bowels and produces
diarrhoea. As Chamberlain’s Colic and
Diarrhoea Remedy is the most reliable medicine
in use for these ailments, care should be taken
to have a bottle always on hand. Attacks of
bowel trouble nearly always come on suddenly
and when this remedy is at hand all danger
pray be avoided.
13e Firm.
When you ask for a bottle of Chamberlain’s
Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy, do not be per-
suaded to take anything else. Be firm in your
conviction that there is nothing so good. This
medicine has been tested in the most severe
cases of cramp, colic, dysentery and diarrhoea,
and has never been known to fail. “ Can be
depended upon” is an expression always used
in connection with Chamberlain’s Colic anti
Diarrhoea Remedy. One bottle goes a long
way towards relieving suffering humanity. It
never fails to give immediate and permanent
relief.
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. C. ENQ, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
SAFEGUARD Yoon HEALTH
o?J.Coltis Browne's
CWorodyne
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOB
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in tlie Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
| COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery
01 all Chemists. Prices in England, IJS. SJ-, 5]
Made in England.
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, BeilS Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office -
44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office :
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Although over £750,000 was paid dur-
ing 1918 in War Claims alone, the
Cash Bonus Distributed for 1918
exceeded.. .. .. • • • • £1,000,000
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about . . .. • • £1,700,000
Accumulated Funds exceed .. ..£39,000,000
Annual Income over .. .. .. £5,5*0,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, General Manager.
r
Follow
the Lead
of the great army of motor cyclists
who will ride no other saddle than a
BROOKS
They know its qualities, they know the
comforts of its compensating springs,
they know the “difference” that it
makes on a road that’s rough or smooth.
Ask your Agent.


A. Saunders’ Cake Forks and Servers, pure Silver
plated, A 1 quality, complete in Velvet-lined Case
21/-
A. Saunders’ two -Tam Spoons in Case, pure Silver-
plated, A 1 quality, engraved Handles, 13/0.
A. Saunders’ Cutlery Set, comprising i doz. Table
Knives and Forks, Xylonite Handles, finest Sheffield
Steel, in Velvet-lined Case.
Table size. 35 /-. Dessert size, 30/-
CASED GOODS
piIHIIIIIIIIMII lIIIIIUIII M I HIM
1.-"! "j.
m
tSea
A. Saunders’ Fish Servers, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality, hand-
engraved Blades, Xylonite Handles, 21 /-
g#»s'
A. oa uimers risu Haters, pure Silver-plated, Xylonite Handles, In
Velvet-lined Oak Case, £3,
SEND FOR OUR LATEST ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST.
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller,
505-815 Georg'e Street, Sydney.
Opposite Railway Station.
A. Saunders’ Soup Spoons, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality,
hand burnished, Velvet-lined Morocco Case, 35/-
A. Saunders’ 3-piece Carving Set, plain Xylonite Handles,
finest-quality hand-forged Sheffield Steel, 30/-
A. Saunders’ Afternoon Teas and Tongs, pure Silver-plated,
A 1 quality, 17/6.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wb Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard*
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Bui 1 d er s’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68J PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
GIBSON’S
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide.
High-class Residential Hotel.
Tariff: 15/- per day inclusive.
8/= per day Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/3 per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
No matter what your respiratory organs may
be suffering from-whether Asthma, Hay
Fever, Rose Cold, or ordinary Cough —you
will find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout A ustralasia.
BOOKS! BOOKS! BOOKS! FOR
YBODY!
The Book of Nature
A FULL AND EXPLICIT EXPLANATION
OF ALL THAT CAN OR OUGHT TO BE
KNOWN BY
MAN and WOMAN,
INTENDED ESPECIALLY FOR
THE MARRIED, OR THOSE IN-
TENDING TO MARRY.
By L. M. BYRN, M.D.
A PRACTICAL COMPLETE
FAMILY DOCTOR.
No such Complete Panorama of the Mysteries
of Human Reproduction has ever before been
given to the world.
DR. BYRN’S ILLUSTRATED EDITION
(1917 ISSUE) IS THE ONLY GENUINE
BOOK. ASK FOR IT, AND TAKE NO
OTHER. PRICE:
TWO SHILLINGS & SIXPENCE.
POST FREE.
Live and Learn, 2/-. How to Get Rich,
1/6 posted. Dr. Lamartine's Silent Friend,
1/6. Ned Donnelly’s Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, 1/6. How to
Dance, 1/6 posted. How to Wrestle, 1/6.
Moll Flanders (a rare book bv Defoe), 1/3
posted. Thurston’s Card Tricks, 1/3. All
Zola’s including Nana, 2/- each posted.
Educating the Horse, 1/3. Ventriloquism
Made Easy. 1/3. Up-to-date Comic Reciter,
1/6 posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/8. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 6/6 posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, 1/3, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(send for list). Jots of Life, 2/-. How
to Make Your Will, 1/3. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 2/3. Career of Beauty
Darling, 2/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/6. Par-
lor Tricks and Games, 1/6. Fortune-Telling
by Cards, 1/9. Life (a book for Men and Women
of To-day), 2/-. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales,
1/9. Tricks & Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/6.
Beauty's Secrets, 1/6 post free. Night of Temp-
tation, 2/-. How to Make Love, 1/3 post free.
Fowler’s Science of Life, 12/6. Australian
Miners' Guide (simple tests for minerals), 4/-.
Mahomet's Fortune-Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price 1/-, posted 1/3.
How to Become Quick at Figures, 1/3. Will
Power (Personal Magnetism), posted 1/-. San-
dow-’s Book of Strength posted, 4/-. Car-
lisle's Freemasonry, 6/3 posted. Daughters
of Ismael, 2/6. History of the Rod Flagella-
tions and the Flagellants (scarce), 15/-.
Practical Gas and Oil Engine Handbook, 5/6.
Motor Mechanics, 3/3. Motor Manual,
(latest), 3/6. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 1/-
and 2/3. God and My Neighbor, 9d. How
to Read Faces, 2/-. Adventures of a' Sydney
Barmaid, 1/-. Colonial Horse Doctor, 2/-.
French Polishing and Staining, 2/3. Photog-
raphy Self-taught. 1/6. How to Make
Sweets. Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks
with Coins, 1/3 posted. House Painting and
Papering, 2/3. Prof. Fowler's Human Science,
12/6. Australian Pastrycooks’ Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, _ 1/6 posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/6. How to Read Faces
and Heads, 2/-. Soldering, Brazing, etc.,
2/3 posted. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/9. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; 1/3 posted.
Camille, 1/6 posted. Piano Tuning and Repair-
ing, 2/3. Modern Etiquette, 1/3. Hoyle’s
Card Games (liules for all Games), 1/6. How
to Mesmerise, 2/-. Man from Snowy River,
4/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/3 posted. Parlor
Magic, 1/3 posted. The White Slave Traffic,
1/3. Every Man His Own Carpenter, 1/6.
Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator,
1/1. Secret History of the Court of Eng-
land, 2/-. Letter-Writer Up-to-date, 1/6
posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, 1/6 posted. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-; 1/2
posted. Electricity Made Simple (new), 6/-.
The Confectioner's Handbook, 1/6. Sexual
Knowledge for Everybody (with plates), 6/6
posted. How to Shine in Society, 1/6.
Cabinetmakers’ Handybook, 2/-. Complete
Bookkeeping, 2/6. Life of Deeming, illus-
trated, 1/1. How McDougall Topped the
Score, and Other Verses, 1/3. French
Self Taught, 1/3. Wannan’s Engine-
driver’s Guide. 6/- posted. Decameron of Boc-
caccio, 4/6 each, posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 2/- posted. Women’s Secrets, 1/-
posted. Gay Life in Melbourne, 1/- posted.
Secrets of Beauty, Health and Long Life
(50,000 sold), 2/- posted. A Bed of Roses, 4/6.
All Those Prices Post Paid.
Established 30 Tears.
DON'T BE FOOLED
INTO PA Y/NG MORE.
New Tricks with Cards, 1/6. Sappho, genu-
ine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 posted. Dr.
Milford's Midwife's Handbook, 92 practical
Send stamp for my
BIG ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
SENT ANYWHERE
FOR THE ASKING.
illustrations, 3/-. Aristotle, 5/-. Adah Lind-
say Gordon's Poems, 1/9. Practical Palm-
istry, 2/-. Guide to Auctioneering, 3/6.
Lovers' Letter-writer, 1/6. All About Incu-
bators, 2/3. Morgan's Freemasonry Exposed,
Key to All Degrees, New Edition, 1/9 posted.
Vest-pocket Dictionary, 1/6 posted. Tokology,
10/6 posted. Ingersoll’s Works, 1/3, 2/-. How
to Read Heads (Jas. Coates),- 2/- posted.
Chevasse's Advice to a Wife, 3/9 posted. Bread
and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-boilers' Assist-
ant, 2/-. The Wife’s Handbook, -1/3 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, 1/- posted. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness
and its Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster's Large
Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus.,
leather bound, my price, 20s. post paid. (Why
pay 3 and 4 guineas?). Bootmaking and Repair-
ing, 2/3. Dynamos and Electric Motors. 2/3.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete
Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 12/6 posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, if. posted.
Henry Lawson’s Humorous Verses. 1/3. Tiif,
Age of Reason, by Paine, 1/3 posted. Rasputin,
the Monk of Evil 2/9. One Day, 1/3 posted. The
Wizard’s Manual, 1 '3. Speeches fro.m the
Dock, 2/-. Life’s Shop Window, 2/-. Three
Weeks, 2/- posted. The Escaped Nun, 2/.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, the big book store, $7 gs 9 Market Street, Sydney <only>.
BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.


.4
The “PLUM”
RAZOR.
This noted Razor is no new invention.
Thousands of “Plum” Razors are sold annu-
ally, retaining their position of supremacy
through sheer consistency of merit. Try the
“Plum,” and you’ll stick to it.
PRICE 10/6 —POST FREE.
AVe keep it in order for two years, free of
charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle,
10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/- _
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
This line makes a handsome present.
“Plum” Strops, 7/6 and 10/6 each.
“Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/-
All the above Post Free.
Send for our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED OVER 30 YEARS.
OU could not make a. better mvest-
X ment than in a bottle of Rem Oil. One
drop judiciously applied to the wearing
surfaces of light machines will prolong
their usefulness and render them capable
of better service. Every household should
have a bottle of Rem Oil. For firearms it is
unexcelled, being at one and the same time a
lubricant, powder solvent and rustpreventive.
Ask your dealer for further particulars or
send for special descriptive circular, also
complete catalogue of Remington UMC
Firearms and
Cartridges.
7
//
'/
d
REMINGTON ARMS UMC COMPANY
D. BRYANT, Australian Representative, Box 686, G. P. 0., Melbourne
\
n
pnivr
1
s?
Mi
M
C-4
The
EDISON
actually “ re-creates ”
the human voice
No other instrument can reflect the voice with such an amazing
- degree of accuracy. Even the trained ears of experienced musical
critics are baffled in trying to detect which is which, when A'oice
and instrument are directly compared.
This means, of course, that the best works of the finest artists
come to you as gloriously perfect as if the performer were really
present in your own drawing-room.
All lovers of real music should have a NEW EDISON.
Write to-day for illustrated catalog, post free on request.
THOMAS A. EDISON LTD., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
“TN RAWING FOR PLEASURE AND
JJ starting May 15 in The Soldier.
now H/- Pet year. 20 Loftus Street,
PROFIT”:
Subscribe
Sydney.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Amusement*.
H,i,. rv RicUurd* Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
p , nil,) I'HEATB 14, SVI>X 14 Y
every EVENING AT 8.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday at 2.30.
THE BETTER ’OLE.
Captain Bairnsfather’s World-famous Comedy.
Plan at Nicholson’s and the Tivoli.
-piVOlil THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH D. McINTOSH PRESENTS
THE FASCINATING MUSICAL PLAY,
MY LADY FRAYLE.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- & 1/-, plus tax.
CRITERION T H EAT U E, SYDNEY,
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.
The Leading American Comedy Star, M. B.
FTGMAN, together with LOLITA ROBERTSON
in
NOTHING BUT THE TRUTH.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Day Sales at Callose’s.
H
14 R M A .1 14 S T Y ’ S, S Y D X 14 Y.
Direction J. 0. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday.
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S TREMENDOUS
PANTOMIME EXTRAVAGANZA,
GOODY TWO SHOES.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Day Sales at White Rose.
rH EAT R E ROYAL, SYI)X E Y.
Lessees J. C. WULLIAMSON, LTD.
ALLAN WILKIE REPERTORY SEASON.
LAST TWO NIGTHS OF THE SILVER KING.
SATURDAY NEXT, MAY 31.
THE SQUAW MAN.
Plan at Paling’s.
Popular Prices.
pAL A C E THI4A T R E, SYI)X E Y.
EVENINGS, 7.45.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY & SATURDAY at 1.45.
.1. & N. TAIT, BAILEY & GRANT’S
SECOND ANNUAL PANTOMIME EXTRAVAGANZA,
JACK AND JILL.
“A feast for the eye, ear and nerve.”
U S
Box Plans at Nicholson’s.
j-~ B T H g , C” I R C
And Great Water Pantomime.
NEW HIPPODROME, HAYMARKET.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY & SATURDAY AT 2.30.
A COMPLETE NEW CIRCUS IN ALL ITS
GLORIOUS SPLENDOR & OPULENT VASTNESS.
Prices: 5/-, 4/-, 3/- and 2/-, plus tax.
Children under 10, half-price.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
UNION PIC T U R
T II 14 A T R 14 S
THE PICK OF THE WORLD’S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE. LYCEUM.
STRAND. GLOBE. LYRIC, EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC, GRAND, KING’S CROSS,
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
HER MAJESTY'S THEATRE. MELBOURNE
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. PRESENT THE
AVIATION MUSICAL PLAY.
GOING UP.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
TII EAT li E ROY A L, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, MAY 31.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present Everybody’s
Favorite,
MURIEL STARR, in
THE SILENT WITNESS.
Prices as usual.
Plan at Allan’s.
KING’S THEATRE. M141.R0 U R N E.
Lessees: BATI.EY 1- GRANT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. & N. TAIT Present the ONLY
HARRY LAUDER.
Prices: 10/-, 7/6, 5./-. 3/-. 2/- Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Proprietors —BEN and .JOHN FULLER.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AT 2.30.
DENIS KEHOE’S IRISH PLAYERS in
THE DAYS OF 98.
The Delightful Comedy Drama, with Songs.
Popular Prices. Plan at Pianola.
J OYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE
■ Also SYDNEY’.
4 LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
ILA LEE in THE CRUISE OF THE
MAKE BELIEVE.
ROBERT EDESON in
THE GIRL I LEFT BEHIND ME.
Prices as usual.
lI4STIC THEATRE. MELBOURNE
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
MRS. CHARLIE CHAPLIN in
in
FOR HUSBANDS ONLY.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
ACIABICM, MELBOURNE.
ICE-SKATING
SEASON NOW OPEN.
DI GILIO’S BAND.
{■VERY REEL A REAL. ATTRACTION.
METRO FILMS.
SHOWING THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALASIA.
|y| ELBA THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN', VITAGRAPII, PATHE,
WORLD, FOX and SELZNICK.
JgKITANMA THEATRE. MELBOURNE'
PRESENTING THE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. and 6d.
Legal Notices.
TN THE SUPREME COURT OP QUEENSLAND.
1 MATRIMONIAL JURISDICTION.
No. 151 of 1919.
AIR. JUSTICE CHUBB. Between GEORGE DANIEL
AVERY Plaintiff and ELLEN ANN CROXEORD
AVERY Defendant and EDWARD STEWART
CURRY Co-Defendant.
TO THE DEFENDANT ELLEN ANN CRO AT' ( Hi. )
AVERY AND TO THE CO-DEFENDANT
EDWARD STEWART CURRY.
TAKE NOTICE that this action was on the
twenty-fourth day of April 1919 commenced against
vou and that the plaintiff by his writ of summons
claims a dissolution of his marriage with the
defendant Ellen Ann Croxford Avery AND by his
petition filed in this Court on the twenty-fourth
dav of April 1919 the plaintiff alleges that sometime
between the twenty-eighth and thirtieth days of
i October 1918 inclusive and the twenty-second and
1 twenty-third and twenty-fourth days of November 1918
inclusive and on other occasions unknown to the
plaintiff the defendant Ellen Ann Croxford Avery
committed adultery with the co-defendant Edward
Stewart Curry AND TAKE NOTICE that the Court
as by order dated the seventh day of May 1919
authorised service of the said writ and petition
on the defendant and co-defendant by service of
such writ and petition on the father of the defends -,t
Ellen Ann Croxford Avery and the insertion of this
notice once in the Australasian published at Mel-
bourne in the State of Victoria once in Thu
Bulletin published at Sydney in the State of New
South Wales and once in a Labor paper published
in the State of Victoria AND TAKE NOTICE that
vou are required within thirty days from the per-
formance of the last Act required by the aforesaid
order to cause an appearance to be entered for
each of you at the Registry of the Supreme Court
of Queensland at Brisbane and that in default of
you or either of you so doing the plaintiff may
proceed in this action and that judgment may be
given against you or either of you in your absence.
Dated the Tenth day of May 1919.
(1.5.) CHAS. S. NORRIS, Registrar.
W. J. McGRATH,
272 Queen Street, Brisbane,
Solicitor for plaintiff.
Used the
World Over
MOTOR
...CARS
EXCLUSIVE STYLES
in
Gent.'s 8 Ladies’ Coats
MADE IN ANGOLAS and
HOMESPUNS.
Also in the CELEBRATED
BURBERRY GABARDINE.
PRICES FROM £6/10/-
HUNT’S,
314 George Street,
Sydney.


j
3
Q
3 £
CQO
P>
*F-N
J ' s*th
2n ’
<!^
Tweed Hats for Winter
—the best hats for windy days.
For motoring, or for general wear in windy weather,
the Tweed Hat is warm and comfortable." It will
hold fast to the head no matter how hard the wind
blows.
I eapes intioduce a shape-retaining style, with crown
and bum strongly stitched through to ensure firmness.
The band is a narrow strip of the same Tweed as
the hat and a neat loop at the left side takes the
place of a bow.
A serviceable hat made of “Warrigal” Tweed,
13/6.
Peapes’ Pay Postage.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 and 311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
k
/
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Goody Two Shoes”
Criterion -Nothing but the Truth”
Royal “The Squaw Man”
Palace “Jack and Jill”
Tivoli “The Better Ole”
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
Haymarket Hippodrome Wirths’Circus
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Going Up”
Royal “The Silent Witness”
s Harry Lauder
Tivoli “My Lady Frayle”
Princess’s “The Days of ’9B”
Hoyt s De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Jf ELBA Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Paramount Metro Films
Glaciahium Ice skating
“The Better ’Ole,” now at Sydney Tivoli,
looks like repaying all flotation expenses and
a wad over. Most theatre-goers are curious
to see how close living actors can get to the
three grotesque musketeers created by Bairus-
fatnet, the soldier-humorist with the curi-
ously crude style of drawing. Alf and Bert
on the stage turn out to be plain human
Cockneys with tunics unbuttoned and caps
askew. But Old Bill, of the walrus mous-
tache. is grease-painted up till In* resembles
a blotched and puffy Father Christmas. He
is a good-natured, honorary father to his two
younger mates and a recognisable likeness of
the reliable, middle-aged type of Briton; but
the author of the play makes him almost
bestially stupid at one stage so that he may
he discovered as a mute hero later on. Rank
melodrama is thrust upon him at another
stage, when, unjustly suspected of treachery,
he stalks out proudly before his colonel. The
play jumps from gag to gag, so to most
readers of “Fragments” every jest is signalled
like a train. However, the three principals
put them over skilfully, and the supporting
members of the co., especially the girls, help
the show along briskly. The incidental songs
and music are bright and cheerful, and there
is quite a lot of dancing. The mud and gloom
of war are only stressed in about two scenes,
the other glimpses being mostly sunlit spots
behind the line and cheery interiors. Harry
Whaite and Harry Grist are the scenic
artists responsible, and their work is uni-
formly good. Whaite’s “The Way In” is a
fine cloth showing a moonlight effect on a
oesolate, shell-churned landscape.
Arnold Bell, as Old Bill, is the show’s
capable fullback. He realises the humorist’s
ideal of a patient and wary old soldier who
is a generous and reliable mate. Also he
uses his mellow voice skilfully in various
songs, and in the mournful chant with which
he announces himself—“ Old soldiers ne-ver
die, they simply fades away.” Percy Cahill (as
Bert, the lover of womenkind) and David
Dallam (Alt' of the patent-lighter) get
through their steady jobs as typical Tommies
and keep repeating “blinkin’ ” till the last
curtain falls on them. Amongst the femi-
nme decorations, Clarice Ilardwicke and
Audrey Worth are sunshine in stockings.
Allan Wilkie raised “The Silver King”
trom the dramatic dead at the Royal (Syd-
ney) on Saturday night, and there was a
packed house to see him do it. The King
with the wide-brimmed hat will be hurried
back into his tomb on Friday night and
“The Silver King,” at
Sydney Royal.
“The Spider” (Guy
Hastings), the villain
cold and cruel.
“The Squaw Man”
pulled out, conse-
quently the weekly
critic must be satis-
fied with snapshots
at the moving tar-
gets. Wilkie hasn’t
quite the finish of
Julius Knight, who
drew the tablecloth
over dead Geoffrey
Ware some years
ago. Miss Fredis-
wyde Hunter-
Watts is gracefully
limp as Nellie Den-
ver, and the pre-
sent aged Jaikes
can’t dodder as
naturally as several
distinguished play-
ers who have prece-
ded him. But the
show averages up
well and the season
of revivals pro-
mises to boom. In-
cidentally, it is
pleasant to find the
Royal in commis-
sion again. A darkened theatre or a real-life
theatre gone over to pictures is a saddening
sight.
One of the consolations of drenched Syd-
ney is the “Goody Two Shoes” panto, at
Her Majesty’s. In a world of wet umbrel-
las and black rainelouds, the big show
sparkles like a girl’s first engagement-ring
or the promise of your rich uncle's estate.
“Nothing but the Truth” keeps the elec-
trics blazing at the Sydney Criterion. M.
B. Figman and Lolita Robertson are the
chief assistants behind the J.C.W. comedy
counter, and business continues satisfactory.
Dame Barry Lupino still falls from the
high stool in “Jack and Jill” at the Palace,
Sydney, with all the enthusiasm necessary to
distil mirth from his rowdy school. George
Moon and Daniel Morris are as sprightly as
over in their eccentric dances; and the don-
key, William A. Hassan, turns the pages and
balances on the edge of the well with an air
of wisdom almost too profound. Dance, song,
quip and caper improve as the show mellows;
and Dorothy Leigh dashes bravely to the
conquest of lovely Princess Violet Collinson.
The Taits and Bailey and Grant are doing
their level best to lift Sydney out of its
sombre gloom.
Wirths’ big circus is keeping up the repu-
tation of its press-agent at Sydney Hippo-
drome, and the complaint-book at the en-
trance had only one item on its pages when
last The Bulletin inspected it. It read:
“Good show; but it costs too much money
to come every night.” One of the most inter-
esting features of the circus is a matinee
performance (Wednesdays and Saturdays).
The outbursts of the children on these occa-
sions would cheer up a coroner.
Eugenie Duggan is to disclose “The
Secrets of the Harem” at the Grand Opera
House (Sydney), starting at the matinee
on Saturday. Three is a slave-market scene,
and in it the beautiful Christian girl
(Eugenie) _ will probably be sold into Orien-
tal domestic service for 14s. 6d.
. Cyril Monk’s introduction of the D’Ambro-
sio Concerto was warmly greeted by an
interested and attentive Conservatorium
audience. The violinist possesses a person-
ality that tinges all his work, and he de-
serves a special hooroo for pioneering
from the worn track. Fair Doris
E ass on at the piano, in her soft white frock,
charmed both the ear and the eye and Limi-
ley Evans gave his clever fingers a night
out. The D’Ambrosio Concerto is to °be
heard again at one of the Verbrugghen Syd-
ney pops.
Peggy Hyland—“Persuasive Peggy” she’s
"The Silver Kina." at
Sydney Royal.
Allan Wilkie as Wil-
fred Denver.
called in the pic-
ture—is a big draw
at the Globe ("Syd-
ney). Iloyt’s and
the Haymarket
have two winners
in R. W. Cham-
ber’s “Danger
Mark,” and Gilbert
I’ a r k e r’s “The
World for Sale ”
“T he Danger
Mark” has an al-
lurement of rich
furnishing, with
Elsie Ferguson as
the girl with the
cursed inheritance
of derrink, while
Gilbert Parker’s
story has the won-
derful background
of the Canadian
backwoods. A t ■
the Strand and
Crystal Palace W.
S. Hart and Charles
Ray are giving lessons in how to rough-up a
mining town. The name of the story is
■‘Staking His Life,” and the dramatic and
threadbare moment is when a life depends
m the flip of card. They’re full of new
deas. these Yankee frontier photoplays!
Louise Glaum is the leading shemale. The
Cniliaux Case is being tried at the Picca-
dilly and Australian, while Hoyt’s has the
monopoly of Caruso in “My Cousin.” Madge
Kennedy is at the Lyceum.
* * *
“De Luxe Annie,” under the Tait manage-
ment, at Adelaide Royal, is triumphing over
the doubts of the more timid as to whether
theatre-going is healthy these times. The
play is remarkable for a tangled plot, which
takes one visit to grasp and another lo
appreciate the fine acting. One records with
regret that Emelie Polini’s noisy grief
brought some laughter one evening. Call it
hysterical laughter, unintelligent laughter;
but there it was, and a sound artist ought
to be able to check it. It all arose from the
lady’s breaking the first great commandment
for emotional actresses: "Don’t make a noise
when you cry.” The part gives Miss
Polini many chances, and she makes the
best of them. Harmon Lee made a first
appearance here as the detective, and the
character sketches of Maurice Dudley, John
Fernside and Georgia Harvey enhance a
strong supporting co. At the Tivoli, the
pleasant old “Squatter’s Daughter,” is be-
ing reproduced, with real wet water and
sheepshearing on the stage. Cappelli still
heads the bill at the Majestic; Sydnev
Jones and Alice Raines mix music with their
fun, while Joe and Vera White introduce
acrobatics with their joyful proceedings.
Among pictures is “The Forbidden City” at
West’s, featuring Norma Talmadge and
showing how an Emperor’s favorite can be
got rid of, when not wanted, by the spears
—a thrilling item. At Mondergraph "Pri-
vate Peat” shows some side-lines of a sol-
dier’s life; and Enid Bennett provides a
sentimental contrast. At the Pav. is a new
picture-actor, Bert Lyell, in one more devel-
opment of the good-natured-burglar theme.
Adelaide, which had the first Repertory
Theatre in Australia (it was called at first
a Literary theatre, which seems a more
sensible title on the whole), is giving a
warm welcome to the professional staging,
by Gregan McMahon, for the Taits, of Shaw
and Galsworthy plays. The first tried is the
familiar “Doctor’s Dilemma,” superbly
played. Souper, Bryant, Eardley Turner
and McMahon himself repeat their brilliant
differentiation of the great medical types;
Bristowe and Greenaway do their parts just
as soundly though less showily. Raymond
Melbourne King's.
Eddy Montrose, the
Broadway clown.
Lawrence mak e s
the impossible
egoist and non-
moralist of Shaw’s
fancy seem almost
real, and Olive
Wilton scores
heavily as his
trusting but bewil-
dered wife. ■ Tli 4
matinge experi-
ment is a marked
success here.
** # *
In “The Days
of ’98,” at Mel-
bourne Princess’s,
Denis Kehoe is de-
fending the libera
ties of Ireland with
an army of seven
supers and the
support of four
pathriotic songs.
Colonel Foster and
half a dozen red-
coats represent, the
forces of tyranny and oppression, and on
form and discipline the stolid regu-
lars ought to make a mess of the oppo-
sition. But every time Foster has the
enemy at his mercy, Sir Kenneth Cowper,
the incredible English Secretary for Ireland,
drops in to veto the execution. The old
boy develops warm sympathies for the suffer-
ing Irish, concurrently with warmer feelings
for a beauteous colleen, and the pair gradu-
ally drift towards a happy ending, what time
the hero, having escaped from prison and re-
covered certain documents from a dirthy
informer, reaches the same terminus with
his own best girl. The play is artlessly
Boucicaultian, with loads of green stuff for
local consumption, but it serves as a useful
vehicle for Denis Kehoe, whose torpid nature
can easily pass for heroic nonchalance in
such violent surroundings. Would that he
had some of the ferocity of Colonel Foster
(Peter Melling), who could safely spare
some without damaging the suspicion that he
drains a bucket of gore at every meal. Stan-
ford represents the tottering monument of
English officialdom, whilst at the other ex-
■ tremity of the social scale lurks Barney
Egan with the traditional cringe and übiquity
of the common informer. Barney is any-
where and nowhere at one and the same
time, but his faithlessness is too humorous
to excite the execration of the populace. The
piece is pretty well staged, especially in
the opening scene, where the dawn is turned
on amid the presumable twitter of Irish
canaries.
$ $ $
At Melb. Royal the penny serial story of
“Common Clay” will be withdrawn after
Friday, therefore the fallacious reasoning of
the heroine may be allowed to pass without
further remark. But the crude melodramati-
cisrn of the plot deserves a parting protest on
account of its moral. It appears that sin
and sorrow dog the footsteps of Muriel Starr
as long as she accepts a poor, but virtuous,
old party as her mother. When she learns
that her real mother committed suicide
rather than blight the career of her illegiti-
mate popper Muriel’s luck changes. She
immediately joins the ranks of the wealthy
and develops into the world’s greatest
prima donna. The man who had previously
accused her of blackmail tactics becomes
obsessed with the idea of marrying her,
although he doesn’t know of her long lost
father and her great musical achievements.
Everything in the garden of Muriel’s life
grows lovely after a heavily-dollared parent
has discovered his relationship to the im-
penitent young woman. In poverty she was
distinctly naughty, but in a state of riches
she turns rather too good to be true. On
Saturday the co. will tackle “The Silent
U itness,” which is a “mystery drama” bv
the author of “Katinka.”
A ext week is Harry Lauder’s last at Mel-
bourne King’s, so any .admirers of that braw
addie who hae nae yet seen him the noo
aie advised to gang alang wi’ their siller
and join m the chorus. Onlv one more
We T\.MM " We a ’ Gae Hame the Same Way,”
and Ihe Saftest o’ the Family!” Lauder
“My Lady Frayle,”
at Melbourne
Tivoli.
Ellis Holland as
Dick in love.
is alleged to have had
some idea of gangin’
awa’ from Australia
this time without re-
peating himself in the
character of Tatnmie
Tainson’s crafty young
friend, but General De-
sire simply insisted on
seeing him once again
as the Saftest. Muriel
Window is another
favorite with General
I)., and she continues
to give him the warm
shoulder in various
changes of costume.
Melbourne Tivoli
had a special boat-
race bill on Saturday.
Marie Le Var r e,
Goodie Reeve, Bert
Clark and others hur-
ried through a short
vaudeville programme
before Lucifer turned
Vera Pearce into a
pillar of youth. The
brightest in the vaude
ville prologue was
Mari e, whereas a
couple of Goodie’s
imitations of her fam-
ous mamma ought to
have been fitted with
identification discs.
George Willoughby wants to meet some-
body with a bag of money to lend at low
interest. The business of backing the wrong
aviator in “Going Up,” at Her Majesty’s is
costing him dearly. He won’t be able to
see out the season 'without giving some phi-
lanthropist an lOU.
** * *
Hoyt’s, Melbourne, are introducing a new
pleasure to the eye and intellect in the per-
son of Lila Lee, in “The Cruise of the Make
Believe.” The film holds the mirror up to
a Tom Gallon yarn and fully sustains Lila’s
claim to a place in Hoyt’s gallery of favor-
ites. “The Girl I Left Behind Me,” an old
Belasco production, starts a fresh career in
celluloid with Robert Edeson and Claire
Whitney to carry the story to a graceful
conclusion. The Metro event for the week
is “To Hell with the Kaiser,” at the Strand.
W. Hohenzollern, senior, goes Below in this
film and finds the abashed Satan ready to
abdicate the chief grid in his favor. At the
Majestic the daintiest thing running is the
celebrated Marie Tempest piece, “A Pair of
Silk Stockings,” wherein Constance Tal-
madge has to explain the fatal hosiery to a
wistful husband. A new child star, Baby
Osborne, is also hitting the screen in a
rather tricky diversion called “Dolly’s Vaca-
tion.”
Harry Dearth’s easy smoke-night manner
added further relish to his singing at the
Melbourne Auditorium on Saturdav.
Squire’s “Sergeant of the Line” was the
apex of his performance in popular estima-
tion, but he gave Handel’s “Honor and
Arms ’ and a couple of old West of England
ditties with all the unconscious graces of
the accomplished interpreter. Nothing was
tasteful than the soaring of Ivy
Ta v T in a bit of “Samson and
Delilah, whilst Elsy Treweek took a short
section of, “La Tosca” and gave it about
three-penn orth of feeling. Leila Doubledav.
in the familiar “Hjre Katy” of Hubay, and
rancoeur s “Sieilienne et Rigaudon” never
showed a keen sense for the music of either
composition. The violinist seems to dissi-
pate her temperament in the energy of her
bow arm. Harold Elvins did the accom-
paniments like « diplomatist and an artist.
Vif Cl ?Sono aachievem - nt h ; plaehl £ the
r c \ ±0,U00,000 conversion loan on the
London market at 51 per cent., at par. can-
not be considered great. Nivison accepted
f ° r underwriting, instead of the
. usual -OS., probably because he thought an
institution much interested in Australia
might.get the business. Counting the under-
writmg the composition duty (12s. 6d. per
cent.) the brokerage (ss. percent.) and the
cost of advertising the net expenses will tot
up to close on 2 per cent., or £OO,OOO in all.
f LS' se ’ provision has to be made for the
£60.000, or there will not be £3,000.000 net.
Probably Mcßride, Agent-General, with the
aid of ,the cable service, could have done at
least as well. McPherson, who paid his own
steamer fare, will now have time to attend
to his own business in London.


W' F iPUBNI r,?V\
—^
.% ; 7^( N^
V
mm s
SI
/ ■ ■ toB *“'
LfPj 'mm*^
’
&
1
, Wii»
!
H
i
./
B
f
■
li
M
:
H .
iMfi
‘. ■;
m.
m\
s»
»«
1
1
/
isg
/
Ov '
w
fe 1
V . . /
J ■ '
§§§§ g ||| *
f.-'irf' - ?*<aß£W /'
® W( " i «P'
Dominion tyres are Sturdy, built for
endurance, and will give you con-
tinuous, uninterrupted service.
You’ll ultimately use them!
Why not now?
OBTAINABLE FROM
NEW SOUTH WALES
BENNETT & BARKELLLTD.
Cor. Meagher & Chippen Sts.
Chippendale, Sydney.
VICTORIA-
DOMINION TYRE AGENCY,
27-31 Little Bourke Street,
Melbourne ,
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—
CHENEY MOTOR CO- LTD .
42-8 Way mouth Street,
Adelaide .


m
If I
s
i m
A Wonderfully Comfortable Garment for Winter!
The BDLLY COAT-SWEATER, 1816
'■ ■ ■ . ■ ■■■ - ■ POST FREE
All through the cold Winter days a “Finney” Sweater-Coat is a mighty comfortable and
practicable companion.
For Outdoor Work, Sports, Riding, Driving and Motoring—or inside on chilly, draughty
evenings—just slip one on and you are warm in a jiffey. Can be worn as a coat—or
under your coat. Buttons right up close to the throat, with double collar or cut away,
as pictured.
All wool—can be had in Plain Navy or Medium Grey.
All sizes—34, 36, 40, 42 chest measurements. All One Price, 18/6 Post Free.
No man can very well afford to be without one of these Warm, Cosy Companions.
P.S.—When ordering state whether y«u require with collar or collarless.
FINNEY ISLES & CO., Ltd., BrUbaTe"
POVERTY
POINT
MOET &
CHANDON
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
N. : Arab’s” yarn about the leading
lady who fell up instead of down, owing to
overweighted counterpoise of potatoes (B.
10/5/T9), recalls a similar accident to Maud
Williamson. With the late Charles Hollo-
way’s co. we were putting up “Queen’s Evi
dence” in a hurry at Newcastle (N.S.W.),
and Maud, as the poor blind heroine, had to
fall into a lock on the Thames. For the
plot’s sake the villain had previously tam-
pered with the lock gates. There was no
time to rehearse the fall and test the work-
ing of the piano-wire that was to modify
Maud’s tumble of 6ft. or Bft. Now Maud
was always one of the willowy sort, and being
very tall her weight was deceptive. Any-
how, the mechanist miscalculated Maud’s
tonnage. So when, in Act 11., the blind lady-
stepped off the lock into nothing, a convinc-
ing splash of water (rice) from below re-
sulted; but Maud sailed up to Heaven.
Charlie Holloway shrieked furious instruc-
tions to the mechanist up above, and that
MELBOURNE AUDITORIUM.
HAROLD ELVINS at the piano.
expert promptly let Maudie down again with
a run to high-water mark. “No! No!
D ! Skzt! Hqpt! Ftshhz !” yelled the
maddened s f age-manager. “Righto,” said
the obliging mechanist, and up Maudie
soared to the flies again, kicking like a
snared rabbit. Then the full strength of the co.
went temporarily insane, and screeched direc-
tions. Whereupon the mechanist lost his
nerve. He wrestled with his blocks and
tackle like a lunatic, and the charmed audi-
ence had the extraordinary sight of the
heroine soaring to high Heaven one minute
and next flopping down to the cloud of
curses below, until someone had savvy to
drop the curtain. “ ’Ow the ’ell was I to
know?” demanded the indignant mechanist
over the fly-rail. But when Maud William-
sun, with murder in her eye, started upstairs
after him, he climbed out on to the roof, and
stayed there till the show was over.
“Peg-Leg”: “Gin Fiz” (B. 15/5/T9) over-
does it in stating that the firm which con-
trols the city picture-shows is freezing out
local producers by demanding unjust terms.
The trouble arises out of the producer’s
demand that an undue amount should be
spent in advertising his film —an amount
often far in excess of the drawing-value of the
picture. The success of any production de-
pends largely on the publicity it receives in
the city, and the theatre-owners—call them
the Combine if you like—have in the past
borne this advertising cost out of their own
percentage. The terms they now ask prac-
tically mean that the producer shall bear a
fair proportion of the advertising exes.,
which generally run from £lOO to £l5O. The
Combine further demands that if it shows
a picture it should also be allowed to re-
lease it. But the producer objects to this,
because he thinks he can get slightly better
terms elsewhere. He does not realise that
through a small exchange he reaches only
a small percentage of hirers. A commercial
equivalent would be for Jones to ask Brown
OVER THE ODDS.
“Why on earth are you so jealous ?”
“Well, didn't you go to the theatre last week
with that confounded husband of yours.”
to display a special line of shirts in his big
shop-windows, while only allowing Robinson,
a few doors up the street, to sell them. My
experience of the Combine has been that it
does not desire to kill local industry. On
the contrary, it fosters it by giving the pro-
ducer the loan of its studio and camera-men,
who would otherwise be far more profitably
employed in some of the Combine’s own
activities.
“Vaudeville Veteran”: Modern comedians,
with few exceptions, don’t pay for
songs as Harry Rickards did in his
performing days. Once out in Africa
he paid for a thing he liked with a handful
of small uncut diamonds. He could size up
a song very quickly. “Popping in at Pud-
ding Time,” and “Jeremiah, Blow the Fire,
Puff, Puff, Puff,” were good numbers for
Rickards that wouldn’t win a handclap for
a comedian nowadays. His descriptive ditty,
“That’s What the Country Wants to Know,”
was of a different type. At the time he
bought it there were petitions at every im-
portant London street corner praying for
the reinstatement of Colonel Baker (Baker
Pasha). Clement Scott’s verses, “Give us
back our colonel —the man on the old white
horse,” helped the flame of agitation, and
Rickards’s ditty kept the public fanning it.
When the affair had got on the nerves of
the old Queen and the politicians, Baker
settled the question of reinstatement by
dying. I don’t recollect any other very
serious attempt on the part of an acknow-
ledged comedian to make or mar a cause per
medium of song or talk, though about 1911-
1912 practically every red-nose in the busi«
ness was winning cheap applause by gibing
at Lloyd George.
“Ring Master”: The circus was pitched
near Bairnsdale, and the co. was disposed
about a camp fire, lazing, when the strange
sight broke in upon them. He was a tall
man with a Henry Irving droop and the re-
mains of a clean shave. He was in bad
repair, but there was no mistaking the old
act-or. And his feet had gone back on him,
which is the poor player’s final calamity.
He approached the boss. “Have you any-
thing an old pro. can do ?” he asked. “Well,
I dunno,” was the reply. “If you have, for
the love of Heaven let me in,” said the
ancient actor. “What can you do?” “I’ll
do anything—any mortal thing to get out
of this.” “Go into the lions’ cage, for in-
stance?” This was said playfully. “Well,
I have done a braver thing.” “You have!”
—this derisively. “Yes, I have played
Hamlet!” He got his laugh, and that was
the beginning of the career of “Old Odds,”
one of the funniest clowns that Victoria ever
saw. Unluckily he died a year after of the
lung trouble he had picked up while hoeing
Gippsland turnips.
“Busker” : An alleged chorus-girl, who may
reasonably be suspected of wearing trousers
instead of crgpe-de-scrim fal-lals, has written
to the Akgus about the Actors’ Federation,
declaring that “she” is resigning from that
newly-formed outfit because, after all, “the
federation is to become a union, along with
the coal-miners, wharf-lumpers, motor-drivers
and slaughtermen.” It doesn’t sound the sort
of junk that a really up-to-date chorus-girl
would write; but there are plenty of ambi-
tious Willy-willies, with white hands and
two-pun-ten a week, who would gladly he
guilty of such a screed if they thought the
boss might be pleased by their action. The
average Australian chorus-girl isn’t of the
kind to worry much about her association
with unionists, however humble or smelly
their jobs, so long as such a course may pre-
sently bring her an extra four or five half-
crowns each week of fagging stage-work.
“Peg-Leg” : It happened in the days when
film-boosting was a real science.
We had a Chinese picture on at
the old Colonial Theatre, Sydney,
and decorated the place with
yellow banners bearing a few
Chow characters, which the
signwriter had copied from a
Chinkie paper. A bunch of
Celestials gathered round the
show early, and appeared to
enjoy the joke, but that night
a howling band of Chows
descended on us, ripped every
sign out of the theatre, and
w-ere just tossing-up to decide
whether to abduct the girl in
the cash-box or slaughter the
manager when the police arrived.
They were Young China Re-
publicans, and the interpreter I
called in to decipher the signs
told me that they were blister-
ing comments on the integrity
and ancestry of all republi-
cans. Now when I want Chinese posters I
make the signwriter copy the characters off
a packet of crackers.
“Arab”: Stage-hands (give ’em their due)
often have ideas of their own. I was once
in an all-champagne-and-curlpaper produc-
tion, supposed to be the very acme of taste
and understanding. The third act wound up
with a dismal death-wriggle and three chil-
dren crying in a balcony surrounded by
double-lilac. One night somebody got drunk,
and the “rag” descended with a whack
reminiscent of guillotine days. “Garn ! That
ain’t no way for a curtain to come down on
a scene like that!” said my discontented
friend. “The Count ’as shot ’isself over the
corp’ of ’is poisoned wife, and Ermyntrude
and Cedric and Charles Worrall are floodin’
the stige wiv their tears. The curtain
should come down slowly and melancholilly.
Slowly and mel-an-chol-illy —wodger think?”
“Harrison O.”: The great man arrived
from—call it “abroad” —to “produce” a musi-
cal show which had run for one hundred-and-
umpteen nights. He brought the script,
copies of which were made here, and the
show was put into rehearsal. It was not
killingly funny, and the co. reckoned the new
“producer” nothing out of the ordinary.
They changed their opinion—twice. First
he took to acquiring inspiration. “Hold on
a moment, Miss Blank,” he would interrupt;
“I’ve got a gag that will fit in there. What
was it now? Hang it all, I thought of it in
bed last night!” Then would follow an
interval while the Great Man disentangled
his teeming thoughts. At last the elusive
thing was caught. Day by day fresh gags
were fished from the recesses of that wonder-
ful intellect, always with a casual exnlana-
tion to the effect that the precious thought
had burst upon him while he was under
the shower, or been suggested at that moment
by something else. The respect of the co.
increased as the dull script became interlined
with bright remarks and tricky bits of “busi-
ness.” Then one day somebody went into the
“producer’s” cubby-hole, and while waiting
glanced through a script which he had brought
from “abroad” and had carelessly left on
his desk. All the inspirations to which he
was supposed to have given birth were
there. The script he had handed to the
management had been villainously sub-edited
so that all might see how a Really Capable
I roducer was able to transform a lump of
dough into the puff-pastry the public is
alleged to want.
“THE BETTER ’OLE." AT SYDNEY
TIVOLI.
The three musketeers: Old Bill (Arnold
Bell), Bert (Percy Cahill) and Alf
(David Hollam).
“Stargazer” : Never before did I see any-
thing quite so pawky as Harry Lauder on
his opening night in Melbourne, when a voice
in the gallery called persistently for “A Wee
Doch an’ Dorris,” while Harry was bent
with a resolute endeavor on delivering him-
self of quantities of patriotic sentiment and
much stale wisdom anent the war. Sud-
denly Harry turned on the frivolous mis-
creant appealing for the rhapsody on boose,
and said, with the air of a lank, dank elder
asked to outrage his holy conscience: “Hec,
moil, we dinna want onnythin’ o’ that sort
here !” The house was stunned into puzzled
silence for a moment, and then the man in
the stalls who was really convinced for the
moment that he had strayed by mistake into
the “Kurruck,” responded with oiliest unc-
tion “Ah-h-hmen !”
“John K.” : The Pointers are wrong when
they say that the late Wybert Stamford's
only appearance on the stage in these parts
was as Napoleon in “The Lady Dandies.”
He posed as Nap. in “The Duchess of Dant-
zig” at Sydney Majesty’s about 11 years ago.
“Melb”: Muriel Window, at the King’s,
does her quick changes behind a low screen,
which shows her bust above all the time.
Margaret Kokin, at the Tivoli, showed the
process of all her changes by cinematograph.
But Eva Mudge was the quickest girl of all.
Her rapidity was such that critics declared
it was impossible, and guessed there must be
two women, very much alike. To disprove
this Eva changed her attire behind a trans-
parent screen. A dresser immediately
stripped her to a shape, and in a movement
or two put on the other things. But I think
Biondi beat the lot of them. As orchestral
conductor he bobbed up, in quick succession,
as Gounod, Donizetti, Jullien, Meyerbeer,
Rossini, Verdi, Wagner, or anyone else that
might be required. Yet an imitator of
Fregoli, for whom he was said to have been
dresser.
“P.” : A recent Poverty Point par regard-
ing the much-used idea of such plays as
“Romance,” “Eyes of Youth,” “On Trial”
and “De Luxe Annie” might have gone back
farther still. It was in Wilkie Collins’s
“Moonstone” that an Indian poured ink into
a youth’s palm and gazing into the pool
revealed the future.
“0.K.”: One of the ambitions of Ethel
Irving during the long years when her talent
was being wasted in musical comedy, was to
play La Tosca. She hopes shortly to get
into management again and play the part
which Sara Bernhardt created. She will
re-create it. For Ethel, in “Dame Nature”
and “Lady Frederick,” was a greater and
more versatile actress than ever the tempest-
uous Sara was. But Sara, from almost her
earliest days on the stage, had great chances
and exceptional personal notoriety. Long
before she made her first grand tour the
world had heard that she kept a tame tiger
in her studio and a coffin in her boudoir.
A new play on the old “Judith” theme, by
Arnold Bennett, has been produced in
London, with Lillah McCarthy as the terri-
ble heroine.
MISS MODESTY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To Jan I said: “How sweet you are,
All others here exceeding far.”
“Nay, nay,” cried she,
“That cannot be.
You saucy man, you flatter me.”
1 said to Jan: “No Helen fair
Was fine as Jan. Such eyes, such hair
Delong pecu-
liarly to you.”
She said: “That’s monstrously untrue.”
Said 1 to Jan: “Thy sylph-like form,
Thy limbs so sleek, thy lips so warm,
Are past compare.”
She said: “Stop there.
It’s false and fulsome, I declare.”
“But, Jan,” I said, “it is a fact
You positively cannot act!”
Her rage and pain
She did not feign.
“I’ll never speak to you again!”
I followed Jan. “My darling, stay.
I’ve told one lie to you to-day.”
“Since you admit
I’ll pardon it,”
She said. “My acting’s exquisite!”
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


THE PERFECT NON-SKID
MARVEL at the Non-Slip Efficiency of the fly’s foot! Watch
the fly run briskly up the glistening smoothness of the
window pane.
■ ? V
In Goodyear All-Weather Tread Tyres you meet the same unfailing
surefoot security. The dangers of treacherous wood blocks, greasy
muddy roads*and death-trap turns and corners are overcome by the
clutching grip of the tough diamond block tread.
Goodyear A.W.T. Tyres not only grip securely, but their through-
and-through positively-better-construction enables them to withstand
the slings and arrows of outrageous roadways and knife-edge frosty ruts.
The merit of Goodyears is emphasised by their smooth-running and long-
enduring qualities. The sturdy, tough diamond tread means sound economy
and service in back-wheel equipment. A.W.T. Tyres should be also on your
front wheels, where they enhance your security, and by yielding a greater
mileage service produce an actual saving in price.
Buy your Goodyear Tyres,
Heavy Tourist Tubes and
Tyre Saver accessories from
the Goodyear Service Sta-
tion. There is one in your
locality.
Branches and Agen-
cies all principal
cities.
Service Stations and
Dealers everywhere.
Boar’s Head Rode,
Road to Katoomba,
Blue Mountains, N.S. W.
C
f.
m
m
m
MJ*
WA
'VN\\
SS2
w
\
l
U;
\n
aw
ji
sn
m
I
w
m.v
U‘«
a&
I
mu
SHt
>
v«
V\W//
v\w
nY>">
m
w
i*‘SS.i ; H)
m
W
IPK
x \m
vKWi
m
m
m
«»
Vi.\
m
vS)/
sum
«»»»
Si
dj
l£S
$
M///
4s
i
iW
1
R
%
91
iss^s
-Jr'or
SO


All good girls read The Bulletin, and
all good boys drink King George IV., the
Golden Whisky.— Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES &CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
LEWIS &
WMITTYI
• . v % >7 4 !
MAKER§g
Si X
Ac';
IMS*
m
90S
'
10077
O
HI
Matured and
Mellow —a
Grand DrinK
PATCH
Do Your Pals a Good
"furn-lnlroduce Them
ho the Great Refresher.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
MICK
SIMMONS
for
SPORTING
NEEDS
Sweepstakes for the Melbourne Cup have
been raised this year to £5O. The only object can
be to exclude the weeds and wasters. But an
extra £2O isn’t going to do that. It would have
been better to boldly stick the fee up to £loo—-a
sum that wouldn’t have stopped the champions, but
which would have much discouraged the fifth-raters.
Randwick on Saturday had another deluge.
The Plate was the good thing it looked for Poitrel,
for the St. Alwyne horse was as hard held at the
end of the three miles as at the start. Odds of 9
to 4 were gladly laid on the winner. Kennaquhair,
runner-up, is a wonderful horse. He was trained to
the minute to race when the ’flu shut the courses,
practically since early Spring. Old-timers were pro-
minent. The Dangar Handicap went to the Fortune
Hunter, who had to stretch himself to beat IJiva’s
Isle. (By the way, the latter looks more of a race-
horse now than at any time previously.) The Steeple
was won by another veteran in Glenquinn, who out-
stayed the favorite, Old Mungindi. There were
several falls in the event, and these once more
showed the need for motor-ambulances instead of the
antiquated horse-waggons in use. Myles Connell only
required one win to register his thousandth, and
punters took even-money about him doing the trick
with Arch Marella in the Dangar Handicap. They
lost their silver.
Perhaps the difference between the
weather in November and April helps to explain the
success of English horses in the Sydney Cup, com-
pared with their failures in Melbourne Cup. Within
the past six years imported nags have scored three
wins (Lilyveil, Rebus, lan Or), three Seconds (Green
Cap, Harriet Graham, Shadowland) and one third
(Lanius) in the Sydney Cup. On the other hand, you
have to go back 10 years for the one and only im-
ported winner of Melbourne Cup, and he (Comedy
King) had been brought to Australia as a baby.
Three Britishers have been runners-un in the Flem-
ington event—-Voyou, Hallomas and Shepherd King
—-the first-named dating back 20 years, and one (St.
Spasa) got third place. But Melbourne Cup experi-
ences have been a warning against putting faith in
nags from England that looked “good things” for the
two-miles race. Three years in succession the hot
favorite—Shepherd Kirg, Lanius, King Offa— -has
been one of the imported lot. In each case the
alleged certainty went more or less amiss before the
day, and two of them became hopelessly infirm soon
after the race. Judging from what they have done
in the past half dozen years it seems that November
is a bad month for horses from the cold country,
whereas March, April and May are good months.
They show their stamina when the warm weather has
gone. The Australian Cup, the, longest-di’stance han-
dicap event in Australia, is always run in March, and
four times in the last seven years it has gone to an
imported stayer.
* * * *
Big money was dropped over Publican at
the A.J.C. meeting last week, one Glen Inues
punter supplying McNoses with £l2OO, and a
well-known Sydney beneficiary of the ring sacrificing
close on £lOOO. The horse is like Desert Gold : if
he can be got away he will win, but he won’t chase
his field. Arch Marella also let his followers down
badly in the Dangar Handicap. What better advt.
could be got of the folly of trying to pick winners
than the fact that Hordern’s high-priced gelding
should have been beaten out of a place in such a
field!
* * * *
J. Daly, the veteran A.J.C. handicapper,
is ill.
* * * *
S.A. Jockey Club- made a profit of about
£3OOO over the Adelaide Cup meeting. The amount
that went through the totalisator was £ 61,000-odd,
which has several times been surpassed, though not
by much. Of the £6524 prize-money, the largest
slice went to the Richardsons, who own the Cup
winner Dependence. Mr. “Fairways,” with the
Leger and a Cup second, and J. E. Brewer, with the
Goodwood winner, were the only others to collect
over £500; but Mr. and Mrs. R. M. Hawker did so
in fact, though they have a fancy to keep their
various horses in their separate names. The Adelaide
Racing Club meeting, which is practically a duplicate
of the other, follows at once (June 3 to 10). Blue
Cross, with 9st. 71b., heads the City Handicap (7
furlongs), and after him, down to 9st., come Ipoh,
Pistolarie, Lucknow, Haud and Dependence. At the
top of the Birthday Cup list (mile and a half) are
Nightwatch, 9st. 81b., Wee Gun and New Tipperary.
+ * * *
The steeplechase at Morphettville(S.A.)last
Saturday (won by Ferrignite with list. 131 b. up)
was about the closest on record. If the post had
been a yard further back Bundong would have won.
* * * *-
Cabled last week that Panther is a hot
favorite for the Derby to be run at Epsom this
month. He has already won the Guineas. The
Derby class is remarkably high this year. Grand
Parade (10 to 1 as against Panther’s 13 to 8) was
only once beaten as a two-year-old, and Buchan and
Lord Basil look like champions on their performances
and breeding.
They have the right perspective in parts
of M.L. At last Wanganui rates the chief event on
the programme was the steeple. It was worth
£7OO and there were 18 starters —winner Coalition,
carrying list. lib. For years Australia’s best
jumpers have been show performers—in short, circus
horses.
* * * *
A Lina ere was again successful in Q. on
Saturday, Delinacre (out of Debutante) taking the
Brisbane Thousand.
Ken Austin’s 14-year-old, Bibbenluke, who
failed to bring off the double in tile Second
(A.J.C.) Steeple, is a chitjken compared to some
good horses still jumping. For example, Captain
Percy Woodland’s Wild Aster (rising 19), mentioned
in this page recently. A well-conformed jumper
should be at his best at 12 or 13. The writer knew
a 30-year mare once that was still in work as a
hack.
Victorian Public Schools boat-race, held
on the Yarra last week-end, attracted the usual big
crowd despite cold and wet weather up till the after-
noon of the racing, when the weather cleared. Gee-
long Grammar got a “row-over” owing, to the Geelong
College crew being ’flu stricken. As Geelong paddled
over the course it was impossible to get a true line
on their form. The first heat saw a ding-dong go
between Wesley and Scotch, and though Wesley made
a bold bid at the Engineers’ Corner and passed the
enemy, the Scotch came at ’em again, wore them
down, and won by a short canvas. The heat between
Melbourne Grammar and Xavier was a demonstration
of good _ style and form against brawn and muscle,
and Xavier got well away, and, maintaining the lead,
won a very tough race over the mile and an eighth in
smin. 30Jsec. In the prior heat Scotch covered the
•distance in smin. 24sec. On time, style and form,
Scotch should win the final. The knowing ones
reckon this year is the first time Xavier have ever
brought to light anything that could be called a
crew. Both heats were won by the. south-side crews,
and in each case the first boat away captured the
race. The defeated crews, Melbourne Grammar and
Wesley, coached respectively by Jim McFarlane and
Charlie Donald, displayed the usual finished style
unequalled on the river. It is the old Albert Park
way of covering the water which Jimmy Mac taught
the Donalds and the Parks which invariably won the
Vic. State championship and 14 inter-State contests
till Jimmy went across to Sydney and taught the
New South Welshmen how to row. This self-same
style has been adopted successfully at Cambridge and
in Canada and U.S.A.
Were any sports, rather than partisans, on
the Melbourne banks of the Yarra last Saturday
they must have been sorry to see Xavier beaten in
the row-off. For the first time in the 20-odd years
that the head-of-the-river tournament has been giving
public-school boys something to yell about, the
Xavierian crew had won a first heat and looked likely
to carry off the final. A long, long record of utter
failures is a heavy spiritual handicap for a college
crew, and when the red-and-black lads had beaten
Grammar (last year’s winners) in the first round, and
had dead-heated with Scotch for the final, they fairly
deserved a bit of luck in the decider. As it was
they could only make so tight a thing of it that
many people hurried away under the impression that
Xavier had just done the trick. Probably the rowing
all round was not up to the average form of recent
years. The five competitors were much of a sort.
Xavier hadn’t a length the better of Melbourne in
the Friday afternoon tussle, nor did the Scotchies
beat Wesley without splashing a little at the finish.
Geelong Grammar was a mystery, in so far that the
visiting crew had a row over the course by themselves
on the Friday. With the worst of the positions in
the final they were only beaten a length by the
dead-heaters. If the tournament were repeated next
week, and if there were any allowance for lack of
weight—the important consideration of brawn behind
the oars —Wesley would win. Why, the Wesley
ligbtweights averasred B*lb. less per oar than the
Geelong, who were a trifle heavier than Xavier, the
second biggest crew !
McKay, who stroked the winners, is a stroke
of great promise. He possesses judgment, pluck and
form, and in his three finishes he kept a fine length.
Although the rowing generally was not quite up to
standard, this was not the fault of the coaches: an
inter-State eight would not get better attention than
that given to the boys by Charlie Donald, Jim
McFarlane and A. B. Sloan, to name the three best
known.
“M.P.A.”: Melbourne ’Varsity athletic
champioi ships and inter-College. contests held on the
“shop” ground on Monday and Wednesday last week
failed to reveal any talent up to before-war standard
except in the cases of proven athletes like lan Pen-
der, the crack hurdler, and Harvison, the tall, lean
high-jumper. Pender started three times during the
meeting, twice in level races and once in a handi-
cap, and won all three. His best time at the meet-
ing, 16 3-ssec., was good form, remarkably so con-
sidering that, he had not long recovered from a severe
operation. His jumping was perfection. The tall
Harvison, suffering from a strained leg, contented
himself with winning both high jumps, the best a
modest leap of sft. 6in.—4in. below his best. The
soundest running of the meeting was done by the
distance-man, H. C. Davis, who cleared away as if
pursued by a Bolshevik Chinaman in both the mile
cnampionship and the two-mile handicap. Davis did
4min. 45sec. for the mile, covering the half-distance
in as good time as the half-mile championship was
won in. The 220 yards, won by Ross, an ex-Wesley
boy, was a good run; but the sprints generally were
below par. The quarter and half were run in time
much below public-school form. Edmunds, the ex-
Scotch collegian, got a move on starter “Storky”
Adams in the 100 yards, and won by less than a yard
in 10 3-ssec. The ’Varsity has no J. L. Davis and
“Rusty” Hunter at present. On both days the
attendances showed a lack of enthusiasm in the
sports, considering that almost 2000 students are now
at the “shop.”
* * * *
The most cheering sporting news of the
week was that that great sportsman, Harry Hawker,
had been picked up. He was a genuine “indis-
pensable” during the war, meaning that he did
work no one else could have. He was England’s
most skilled aeroplane tester; a job that involved
as many risks as any in the front line. Hawker
really typifies, in skill, insouciant courage and in-
itiative, the best sort of A.I.F. sportsman now in
England. Did any country ever get a better 1 advt.
from its youth than Australia has?
“Jake B.” : “Autolycus” (B. 15/5/T9),
after going to the trouble of explaining the differ-
ence between air-speed and ground-speed of aero-
planes, cites an example of a machine whose air-
speed is 100 m.p.h. doing a ground-speed of 90
against a 20-mile wind. If “Autolycus” had been
in the habit of doing long
“cross-countries” on which a
doubt existed as to whether
the oetrol would last the dis-
tance or not, he’d have got
rid of such ideas long ago.
I’m willing to lay a small
shade of / odds that his
machine, under the conditions
quoted, doesn’t cover an inch
more than miles of
ground. In fact, I wouldn’t
be surprised if it only did
80., A fact which isn’t 1 so
widely known about the
“pitot” is that its accuracy
varies with the density of the
atmosphere. A machine at
10,000 feet, whose pitot is
registering 92, is . actually
doing an air speed of 100. Of
course, the speed of any
machine decreases the higher
the ’plane ascends, chiefly ac-
cording to. its type, so that a
machine whose pitot shows
92 at 10,000 feet would
probably be able to put up a
speed of 125 m.p.h. at sea-
level. A speed test should
always be made as close to
the earth as possible, prefer-
ably over a stretch of water.
Bv so doing vou get the maxi-
mum results, a horizontal line
of flight and, over water, an
unobstructed course. In the
event of the engine conking
you have something to perish
in without breaking your
neck.
BELCHER, captain for
Essendon (Vic. League
Football) .
The rush for N. S. Wales Rugby League
premiership has already a straggling appearance.
After three matches, Balmain is at the top, having
arrived there without defeat; Wests, Easts and Glebe
are next —-each with cne defeat; Souths have won,
lost and drawn a game ; while the rest string out in
the tail. On .Saturday the draw-card was the Glebe-
Souths fixture. Souths won after a see-saw struggle
by 18-14. Both sides scored two tries, but the boot-
ing of five goals by Oxford (Souths) did the trick.
In the other disturbances, Wests defeated Newtown
(11-6), Balmain chased out Annanadale (37-2), and
Easts jumped over (Siorth Sydney (23-5). An im-
provement in goal-kicking was thankfully noticed.
McPherson (Wests) and Messenger (Easts) each
kickpd four goals, P. Boys (Newtown), Robinson
(Balmain). and Bolewski (Glebe) booted three each,
and Fraser (Balmain) scored two.
* * * *
Balmain’s defence in Rugby League this
season is worth some ungrudging remarks. In three
matches no tries have been scored against the XIII.
The team has scored 72 points (16 tries and 12
goals) to 10 (five goals).
The Maoriland Rugby League team, which
pushed off for Australia on Saturday, was rubbed in
the earth by Auckland before leaving by 25 points to
19. This happening has occurred in other years to
teams getting ready for an over-sea tour, and hasn’t
much significance. The team, which comprises 12
backs and 10 forwards, is a sturdy band under Cap-
tain G. Bradley, and will next face an Australian
XIII in Sydney.
“R.J.A.”: Uni. have a useful Rugby
Union team this season; one that recalls the days
of the Futters, Hughes' and Bullock. And what a
specialised and scientific game it is as such men
play it! The League game, in the writer’s opinion,
calls for little more than “foot” and an
to “take” the ball. Sheehan, of Souths, is a case
in point. He has many of the qualities of Asher —
the Maori three-quarter who used to wear a sand-
shoe on one foot and a boot on the other. He
is a League top-notcher, and yet he would not be
nearly so successful in the Union game. The idea
is re-inforeed by the prominence men who were
very ordinary Unionists have gained, of late, as
Leaguers.
* * * »
Adelaide has seen the unusual sight of a
match under Australian Rules ending in a draw.
South Adelaide and Port, after a long even struggle,
finished with 6 gaols 10 behinds each. The season,
as far as it has gone, shows Sturt and North Adelaide
in the lead, each having won the three matches
played.
The Australian Rulers had their thrill of
the season on Saturday, when Newtown (last year'.-
runners-up) defeated East Sydney (last year’s' pre-
miers) by 31 points to 29. Newtown is the only
undefeated team in the campaign.
Under Soccer rules there is a lengthening
premiership table. Granville is the only team with- '
out a defeat in four matches; tally, 21 goals to one.
Otago (M.L.) University v. Zingari
(Dunedin) was a notable clash recently. The school
won by 50 points to nine—39 to nil in the second
half. One Campbell lifted seven goals through the
uprights.
* * * *
George Mendies tried to give Jack Green
close on a stone at Sydney Stadium on Saturday
night and found the job beyond him. With ban-
tams every pound tells. In four rounds Green had
the enemy tottering, and in the seventh the towel
was wafted in. Noel and Clarrie Smith (also ban-
tams) supplied the prelim., Clarrie being outed in
round two.
Three punches from Tom O’Malley (list.
61b.) were enough to settle the pretensions of Dave
Smith’s white hope, Jerry Hansen, who entered the
Sydney Stadium ring weighing 12st. 101 b. on Mon-
day night. The disaster occupied hut train.
3 7 sec.
Harry Stone, the cigar-chewing Yankee
Yid, who did so well as a lightweight—and, later,
as a welter —at Sydney Stadium before the war, ; s
now a promoter in S.A. As'he can’t find a little
man of his class in Adelaide, or thereabouts, he is
challenging the local heavyweight, Ern Waddy, over
the championship distance.
* * * *
The Australian Trench XI made hacks of
Cambridge last week. However, it has to lie
remembered that both University teams are miles
below par still. It will be another six months
before British demobilisation is far enough advanced
to give the ’Varsities back their athletic best.
* * * #
From the firing mound: —
A wise act of retrenchment would be the abolition
of the Federal vote to rifle-clubs, which runs to
about £60,000 a year. It is a relic of the Boer
War, which left rn impression that campaigning
was mostly a matter of men with rifles lying
behind rocks. And as the Boers called up young and
old, and between the extremes did great damage, flic
scheme was looked upon as being very effective.
So the retiring age of the Australian rifle-clubber
was fixed at 60, and the baby bonus was intro-
duced. Now war is rather a matter of tanks and
gas and airships, and is more than ever a young
man’s game. Also there is no money to subsidise
gun-bearing patriarchs with.
* * * #
A S. Aus. rifle-club sec., in his official
report put it this way: “An enjoyable time was
spent, and very poor shooting was the consequence.”
“75”: There is one Melbourne golf club
that appears to have lopsided views of sportsman-
ship and patriotism. A job was vacant at the club
for which a one-legged Billjim applied. When it
was discovered that he was receiving a pension of
225. 6d. a week he was told that another £1 would
keep him, and he could have the position at the
price. Billjames promptly refused and has reported
the matter to the Repatriation Department. It is
playing it pretty low down when those who golfed
while Armageddon blazed attempt the sweating of
men who made a continuance of the pastime pos-
sible.
“C.J.”: A few weeks before the ’flu
became a general nuisance a committee was at work
in Sydney making arrangements for a Peace Regatta.
Peace, however, has not arrived up to schedule, and
the proposed programme of sailing and rowing events
has been hung up. Open-boat sailing representatives
asked that cash prizes be granted in view of the
disabilities under which they would sail in winter,
but the request was refused. Now, winter has prac-
tically set in, and most sailing crews have donned
football jerseys; so the Peace Regatta seems to be
off, so far as sailing 1 in open boats is concerned. As
it will probably be some time before all the peace
details will be adjusted, wouldn’t it be better if the
regatta was postponed till the sailing season opens in
September ? Crews will be plentiful then, and all
the boats will he fitted out.
Back to Sydney from the war the other
day came George Drysdale, well known in aquatics as
the skipper of Myra. Previous to sailing the 10-
f'ooter he was notable amongst the six-footers. When
he with a number of other harbor boys enlisted, the
10ft. dinghy club shut down.. Racing was resumed
towards the end of the war, when most of the boats
had got into younger hands. Myra, however, remained
in her shed, but will no doubt be afloat next season.
Drvsdale himself intends to sail an 18-footer.
* * * *
At no sport does the amateur cut such a
futile figure compared with the pro. as at billiards.
Pry has been amateur champion of England,
oft and on, for 20 years. He has ample leisure to
practise—he is the wealthy son of the once-famous
bookie-—and yet in the qualifying round of the
chamnionship contest, last month, he could do no
more than average 13. Boxing is the other sport
at which the amateur takes a back seat. But ft
front-ranker sometimes appears from amongst the
amateur pugs; from the billiardists never.
Some Gunning (N.S.W.) lads have been
fined for playing cricket on Sunday. As a. matter
of fact, under the Lord’s Day Observance Act, half
the inhabitants of Australia are lawbreakers. Golfers,
tennis players, motorists, etc., and all those who
minister to them: rail and tramway employees,
postal officials, hotel and restaurant servants and
many others, including those who sell the Sunday
paners and print the Monday issues of the weeklv
ones. The original Act dates from Charles ll.'s
reign. It was amended and made somewhat less
stringent in 1871.
SOME PROBLEMS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The third act of the great equine drama will be
staged on the metropolitan heath to-day. The bill
of fare is an appetising one.”—S. M. Herald.
Is it drama, with grandstands and tracks as a stage?
Or a feast, or—more vulgarly—feed ?
Is it Art, when the bookmakers bellow and rage,
Giving peerless portrayals of Greed ?
Does the Governor stand for the bird or the joint?
Or is one who believes it a dupe?
Does he represent “lead,” that is really my point,
Or a species of dignified “stipe” ?
Are the ladies who saunter through paddock and shed
The equivalents charming of wine?
Not improbably, Yes, since they go to one’s head,
And they’re costly, like most things divine.
“No,” my friend interrupts. “They are heroines all,
Pure as Heaven’s immaculate snow.”
“My mistake,” I reply, feeling painfully small,
“But, now, how could one possibly know ?”
Do the jockeys provide all the comic relief,
Or do trainers and owners assist?
Should one look for the name of the Joker-in-chief
On a menu or race-card or list?
Coming now to the hill —to the question of cash—
Ts there any fixed price for the show?
But the expert here burst from the room, with a
crash,
Using language deplorably low.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


Deep Breathing is the Vital
-Force of Life
THE PASSPORT TO COQ3 HEALTH
It is oxygen that gives the blood its sparkling redness the
bodv its warmth and energy—that makes it possible for the
food we eat to be transformed into bone, muscle and tissue.
Since it is the duty of the lungs to supply the blood with
oxygen, deep breathing should be the foundation of every
system of exercise. j , _
A great majority of people are shallow-chested —sufferers
from oxygen starvation —and yet they wonder why they art
fatigued, depressed, under weight—why their vital organs
fail in their duty. The deep-breathing exercises included
in my
Postal Course of Health and Strength Culture
are most modern, efficient and successful.
They build up weak chests by strengthening the lungs,
developing the muscles supporting the chest walls, broaden-
ing the shoulders, and making you breathe in a natural
The exercises you receive will be those most suitable foi
your individual physique, just as the particulars you furnish
entitled “HEALTH AND STRENGTH
FROM SELF-CULTURE,” which tells all about my methods.
Write your name and address across this advertisement and
post it to me. I will know what you mean. Send three
penny stamps for postage.
REG.L.
(‘Snowy’)
BAKER,
Australia’s Lead*
ingr Physical
Culture Institute,
40 MUNICIPAL BUILDINGS, 82a OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY.
V
BRITISH IMPERIAL OILCO.LTD.
AU -STATES O MEW ZEALAND.
Is Your Dog Beady?
Training Mow in Full Swing,
TONIC AND CONDITION BALLS
Purify the blood, prevent worms, produce
first-rate condition for coursing.
Price 2/6 per box.
STIMULATOR FOR RACINO HOUNDS.
For external use during coursing. Alleviates
stiffness and fatigue. Price 3/6 per bottle.
Booklet, “HINTS TO DOG OWNERS,”
Price 6d. Post Free.
R. W. BEDDOME (Si CO.,
Dog Medicine Specialists ,
254 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
Obtainable also from
JOHN BRUSH PTY. LTD., SYDNEY;
WALTHER & STEVENSON, 393 Ceorge St , SYDNEY
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOB
MINING, MILLING, etc.
INCLUDING
STEAH ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL BE POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO
THE SECRETARY, THE GENERAL MANAGER, THE SECRETARY,
Box 229 G.P.0., MOUNT MORGAN, Box 220 G.P.0.,
MELBOURNE. QUEENSLAND. SYDNEY.
3000 Miles through the
Great Unknown on the
Blazing the
Aerial Trail.
Mounted on four Standard Indian Side-car Outfits, the Aerial .Mail
Route Expedition has completed an unparalleled trip—from
Sydney, N.S.W., to Burketown, on the Gulf of Carpentaria—over
unexplored, unknown country!
Catalogue with 'pleasure.
MELBOURNE: Rhodes Motor-Cycle
Co. Pty., Ltd., 109-113 Russell Street.
SYDNEY: Milledge Bros., ltd., 156
Castlereagh Street.
BRISBANE: Canada Cycle and Motor
Agency, Ltd., Adelaide and Creek
Streets.
ADELAIDE: Eyes & Crowle Ltd., 75-79
Pirie Street.
LAUNCESTON: John King & Sons,
Ltd., Charles Street,
PERTH: Armstrong Cycle & Motor
Agency, Hay Street.
A Good Cigar at a Moderate Price—
“CAROLA.”
MILD, BURNS FREELY, FINE AROMA.
SAMPLE BOXES POST FREE.
11/6 Box of 25. 22/6 Box of 50.
A Really Pure and Healthy
FULL-SIZE VIRGINIAN LEAF CIGARETTE—
“SATIN FINISH.”
5/6 Box of 100. 2/9 Box of 50.
POST FREE.
A. A. MARKS, 376 George St., Sydney,
Cigar and Tobacco Importer. BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE CITY.
ggastoiE
•x**
'til
?M
#z
8®
ISIS
L.-^
If
V-':#
Iftl
V:«'
Stii
MB
;,*sY'V-
ii
%£&%*
MPfS£
mM^mm
mm
v- ,v
w'
lOTgr
3&&
sm
sffi?
sissi
IS
a®
Mflj
i
ss^
KYNOCH
AMMUNITION
KYNOCH “P.G.” (perfectly gas-
tight) CARTRIDGE —the highest
class imported into Australasia. It is a
superb cartridge for match shooting, being
used by the best shots. The specially-deep
brass head ensures perfect ejection. 2f
inches lcng.
Always specify KYNOCH “P.G.”
when you want the very best.
All British
Manufacture.
[2
Wholesale only—Scottish House, 90 William Street, Melbourne.
Kynoch House, 277 Clarence Street, Sydney.
SIX-HEAD
-BEARING PLANER
and MOULDER.
1&&-
mtm
J
WITH BALL-BEARING COUNTERSHAFTS.
CAPACITY l\ n x 3"
UNEQUALLED FOR HIGH=CLASS FLOORING,
MOULDING or LINING.
GIVES LARGE OUTPUT and PERFECT FINISH
with GREAT SAVING IN POWER.
DELIVERY FROM STOCK. Inspection Invited.
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd
490-492 Kent Street, SYDNEY.


m ■ m ll
gg®
L’K-l.
.
ma
URl.—Bcx Cal? Balmorals, ex-
tended last, li'.rlit welted soles;
two fi.tinss. also Derby styles.
Brice 21/-
FARMER'S, SYDNEY.
UR2.—Tan Willow Derby Boots,
round toe, comfortable last, also
in Balmoral styles,
l’rice 21/-
Sydney's Premier
Private Hotel,
The “Ritz”
Cremorne,
On the Harbor Front.
Delightful 8 minutes’ Ferry Trip
from Circular Quay.
Electric Eight and Lifts and all
conveniences usually associated with
First-class Hotels.
Steamers every few minutes all day
and night,
Tariff, from 10/6 per day, and
from £3/3/- per week.
VANITY FAIR
Way back in ’4B, when William Makepeace
Thackeray penned his charming story, while
the woman of that time exercised the same
potent influence as her sister of to-day, she
yet lacked many graceful touches the twenti-
eth-century woman accepts as her right.
Among these not the least is
THE GLOVE OF SILK
The Queen of these, ruling by admitted
beauty and perfection, is
VANITY FAIR
which, while costing no more than the
ordinary Silk Glove, carries the matter s
guarantee.
THE GUARANTEE.
If these gloves wear through at the finger-
tips at any time before they are washed, and
before the rest of the glove has had reason-
able wear, we will, upon receipt of this
ticket and your gloves, replace them with a
new pair.
THE SYDNEY AGENT FOIL THE MILL IS
RESPONSIBLE FOR THIS GUARANTEE.
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warner's
Rust Proof
Corsets
The hearl-of-the-river carnival last week
turned part of Melbourne into a turmoil.
From Pvineos Bridge up round Collius-
street and hack a continuous stream of deco-
rated motors packed with schoolboys and
girls kept passing and hooting. Generally
a delighted young matron was visible on the
hack seat Mothers of college children have
the time of their lives at boat-race season.
They live in a whirl of flapper entertain-
ment, amid a gale of buns and ice-
cream. The school colors fluttering from
the cars looked like the pennons of an army.
Mrs. Leslie Stuuit, Mrs. Billy Williams,
Mrs. Glenlotli Peter and Mrs. Gatehouse
were important matrons in the social doings
during the noisy revels. Their box-theatre
parties, dinner feasts and flapper dances
were the social features of the week, and
their young guests are still cheering.
Her Majesty’s celebrated the boat-race on
Saturday with much hunting. Flags fes-
tooned the theatre entrances and hung on
clothes-lines all over the auditorium. The
big banners of the competing schools smoth-
ered the proscenium arch, whilst most of
the mummers sported their favorite rosette.
The boxes bulged with blue-blazered youth,
parents and sundries, and the gallery was
packed with shiny juvenile faces. Alfred
Frith and Co., especially Frith, did their best
to keep the infants aloft smiling. The house
was more than half-full of flappers. Boxes
were taken by precocious young things in
their partiest frocks and elaborate hair-
hows. These young people entertained col-
lege athletes during the evening while
a smiling chaperon or two took back
seats in a shadowy way. There was
nothing simple or suggestive of the nursery
about these little parties. Each box was
decorated by florists. Two youngsters not
yet in their teens sat in a pen completely
outlined with pale blue hydrangea and had
special blue boxes of sweets. They were
hostesses to some pale blue Geelong Gram-
marians. Tallis and his wife were eclipsed
in a box by a small son in dazzling white.
The Wenmans were in a lower roost. As
each crew strode in to take its reserved
seats a roar went through the theatre. The
crews were all late, as they had been ex-
tensively dined. The performers on stage
grew quite huffy about the noise at last.
Gaud Mayor Cabena is alleged to be prac-
tising knee-drill deportment, so that he will be
able to get down and up with becoming grace
when the Governor remarks, “Rise, Sir Bill,”
or words to that effect. This is due to a
rumor that wearers of the Gaud Mayoral
rabbit-skins who have not already had knight-
hoods thrust upon them will be operated on
in connection with the Peace celebrations.
The Baldwin Spencer sale of pictures, pot-
tery and furniture, at the Fine Art Gallery,
ODened well, drew its best house on the
second day—when some beautiful water-
colors by Streeton, Hilder and Heysen
brought good prices—and slumped badly on
the third day. The heavily-gilded Mrs.
Barrett, of Armadale, was the most con-
sistent buyer, her purchases including Lam-
bert’s “The Bathers” (175 guineas) and
several canvases of Hilder, including the
ravishing “Golden Glow” (110 guineas).
Willie Kelly annexed Streeton’s “Royal
Barge at Eton” for 100 guineas. Donald
Mackinnon, Captain Hall, the Russell Grim-
wades and others also opened their cheque-
books ; but many of the Best People who
came to bid remained silent when they noted
the prices, contenting themselves with an oc-
casional titter when the auctioneer made a
“break,” as, for instance, when, bringing the
merit of Lambert’s work under notice, he
mentioned that the artist had already made
a name in Australia and would yet be heard
of in England ! But he was most amusing
when bidding became slack, and. addressing
the Very Best People as though they were
naughty school-children, he observed, more
in horror than in anger: “Really, I don’t
know tohat Sir Baldwin will think of this!”
When John Madden was Lieut.-Governor
he received half the vice-regal wage, as well
as full union rates as Chief Justice while
the imported Cocked Hat was on leave draw-
ing his whack from Australia. It is
taken for granted that the same system will
he “available” when Governor Stanley goes
on “leave” (queer name for the stunt!)
for six months prior to his retirement in
August. 1920. and Irvine, C.J., takes charge.
No official statement has yet been made on
the subject, and there is some speculation as
to whether or not Stanley and Irvine will
touch the £2500.
Governor Stanley “proclaims” Williams-
town a city. The place was named after
King William, because early tipsters ex-
pected it to be the capital. Melbourne, up
the river, was only named after the English
Prime Minister. ' The difficulty of getting
water settled Williamstown iu its cradle. All
the needful had to be brought from Mel-
bourne, the Yarra being salt up to the
Flinders-street falls. The place has a very
poor stony beach, and many of the early
settlers must have cut their feet ana lost
their tempers scrambling ashore.
The George Armstrongs have slanuned the
front door of Coombe Cottage, and are off
by the Euripides to London, where they will
spend the strawberry season at Melba’s
Dover-street house. They intended leaving
earlier, but the Dame wrote advising that
there wasn’t much in the larder, owing to
war-time food restrictions. Now, however,
square meals are obtainable in London on
demand —at a price, of course.
Published statements that the London
press is shocked to its dear old soul by the
jazz dances now the rage, make the cynics
smile. This has been its attitude to every
new dance craze —the tango, bunny-hug. fox-
trot, and even the waltz. In 1796, when
the waltz was something new, the Times
made some well-chosen remarks anent the
opportunities it afforded “for squeezing, hug-
ging, etc.,” and mentioned that “more than
one lady has actually fainted in the middle
of it.” Ginger has beeu added to the waltz
(which is of Hun origin) since then;
even so it is now considered much too
decorous for au up-to-date flapper to waste
her legs on.
In the present rush of hospital appeals
there is no worker
so missed as the late
Mrs. J. T. Davey,
who died suddenly
from influenza. Mrs.
Davey was tireless,
earnest and charm-
ing. She could col-
lect more money for
a charitable cause,
quietly and without
fuss than any other
woman in Mel-
b o u V n e. M r s.
Davey had a term
as Lady Mayoress,
and since then has
many a time given
a helping hand and
valuable advice to
a new reigning
municipal dame. By her death Melbourne
has lost a very lovable woman. This photo-
graph is by Talma.
Is there a “something” in the new jazz
dance, or is it an innocent form of recrea-
tion? This question will, in other words,
be submitted to the audience at the Town
Hall on Anzac Night. The Ilyams sistern
are to run a palais de danse in aid of the
fund, and 20 couples will demonstrate the
new craze. Meanwhile Jennie Brenan, as
counsel for plaintiff Propriety, has declared
that the American dance is only what might
be expected from its name.
Mrs. Colonel James gave a party on
Friday at the Lyceum, with Harry
Lauder's wife as chief guest. It was a
crowded show. The Lyceum is always like
a beehive or an anthill on a party day, and
if any woman wanted to swing a cat (four-
legged variety) she would have to take that
cat outside.
When Canon Evelyn Snodgrass left St.
Paul’s at Geelong and accepted the poor
parish of St. James’s, East St. Ivilda, it
was understood that- the shortage in salary
would be made up by giving him a supple-
mentary office. The wardenship of the
Community of the Holy Name has now been
handed over, with headquarters in Spring-
street. It should be a congenial billet
for the tactful bachelor parson. He will
have to direct the efforts of a small army
of Sisters, who run a variety of enterprises
—House of Mercy for girls, a pair of
hospitals, homes for babies and older chil-
dren. work at gaols and public hospitals,
and a bunch of lesser activities. Until
lately the work has been carried on by Dean
God by, now bowed by the weight of years
and unable to produce the energy demanded.
Canon Snodgrass’s step is still springy, and
he l-eckons he is good for at least 10 years’
hard going.
A storm burst in one of our big hotels one
morning recently. Newcomers on the scene
of action found a large, flushed pastoralist
threatening death to some villain who had for
the moment escaped him. It was presently
gathered that the party temporarily off the
land had come on a depraved wretch at the
door of a bathroom with his eye to the key-
hole. Now, I he young and attractive wife of the
man of acres was in that bathroom. Peeping
Tom had been taken red-eyed, and the out-
raged husband insisted on a personally-con-
ducted homicide. Two barmen, the manager
and three volunteers were holding him. At
this juncture a timid housemaid arrived with
a message from the guilty wretch, who was
hiding under his bed. He wished to apolo-
gise. They brought him down, and he con-
fronted the rampant pastor-alist. “I trust,
sir,” h p said, “you will understand when I
explain that my action was purely profes-
sional. lam a private inquiry agent!” And
now the squatter is more eager than ever to
wash the insult out with blood. But the
agent is a great runner.
Mention of Redmond Barry’s ancient
dwelling still standing by Goldsbrough,
Mort’s mass of bluestone in Bourke-street,
recalls the fact that the distinguished Judge
had a charming week-end retreat on the Bay
View-road, at Burwcod. It is still in use
to-day, and very much improved in its .sur-
roundings since Barry had it. The place
lies near the southern fringe of what is
now Melbourne’s most productive orchard
areas, and is planted on every side with young
trees, served by an immense irrigation dam.
Utility is to-day the watchword of the
neighborhood; and the simple, cow-raising,
apple-growing life of the community con-
trasts sharply with the merry-and-bright
atmosphere of the house in Barry’s day. The
learned bencher used to drive into the city
behind a pair of fast horses, after a walk
around the garden and an early breakfast.
John MeWhae, Acting Health Minister,
has decided to issue an honor-badge to those
nurses who have attended ’flu patients for
three months or until they took the disease
themselves. A bar will go with the badge
in cases where nurse has been on duty ever
since the Department recognised the epi-
demic as worthy of its official notice. A few
nurses have flatly refused to attend ’flu
patients. Those who haven’t shrunk from
the danger deserve every bit of credit that
can be given them.
Mrs. Richard Larking is hack at her
Tooralc home, Woorigoleen, with her young-
est daughter after nearly 10 years in Eng-
land. Her elder son fell in action, and the
second son is married and living in England.
Miss Strickland, whose dad is the Ma
State’s late Ex., writes that the family have
arrived in England. As their old family
residence, Sizergh Castle, Westmoreland, is
let until the end of the year, they are busy
house-hunting in London.
Two of Toorak’s smartest homes for “pay-
ing-guests” are to become private residences
again. Larundle, once the George Stevensons’
property, has been acquired by sporting-
squatter Creswick. Coonac is also emptying
its lodgers into the street. Name of new
owner still censored. The Walter Manifold
pair have transferred their belongings to the
new hash-mansion, Hyalite.
The Ernest Poolman pair (she was the
late Dr. John Webb’s only child) have
decided to live in Australia. They hope to
arrive back from England with their little
family at the end of the year.
This is a portrait, by Monteath, of Alberto
Zelman the second,
son of the fine old
musician who used
to delight Mel-
bourne. Alberto
junior modestly
counts himself a
mere echo of his
dad, but his record
to date is a very
fine one. He has
lately resigned his
post of chief violin
instructor at the
University, and that
institution parted
with him with in-
tense regret. The
Melbourne public
has a great affection
for this earnest
musician, who fostered and worked up the
Melbourne Symphony Orchestra, and has
guided the Philharmonic through many
programmes. Incidentally, Leila Doubleday
is one of his notable pupils.
Mrs, Eva Hughes, Women’s National
League president, and wife of Brig.-General
Fred Hughes, is off to England on a health
trip with daughter Eileen. Captain Arthur
Hughes and his married sister (she tied up
with a naval officer when war-working in
London) will welcome the travellers on the
other side.
The Alfred Brights are being much fare-
welled before leaving for England. Alfred
is a nephew of our old friend Reggie Bright,
who is still going strong in the Cold Coun-
try and thinking of another trip to Aus-
tralia.
Adelaide rings up :
Doris Leech, who won Melba's, scholarship for two
years at Melbourne Conservatorium in 1916, and
is over here for her vacation, sang to friends at an
excellent concert on Thursday night, with Kitty
Levasseur, Ilarold Parsons and Harold Wvlde as
assisting artists. Before Melba took her in hand
she had been classed as a contralto; but the prim i
donna was emphatic that Nature intended Doris for
a soprano. She is enthusiastic about Melba's kind-
ness. Doris is going to Europe later on. The
week also gave us the Elder Conservatorium’s third
concert of the season, and a brilliant pianoforte
recital by Brewster-Jones.
“Abe” Shannon, who has been doing Red Cre-
work at Boulogne, had an enforced spell, through
influenza, but was convalescent when the last mail*
left London. Eileen Shannon has been demobilised
after a record of V.A.D. work that dates from the
early days of the war, and is expected home before
long. The Niagara's passengers include the Duncan
dame and her two daughters, and Lieut. R. Barr
Smith. The Tom Barr Smiths have gone to Sydney
to meet their soldier son.
Brig.-Gen. Forsyth, who did good work during
his term as State Commandant here, visited S.A. on
business during the week and found time to see a
good many of his old, friends.
Col. M. H. Downey, D. 5.0., has been guest of
honor at two welcomes home, one given by the
returned members of his own unit and the 11th
Field Ambulance Comfort Club, and the other
arranged by the staff of the Parkside Mental Hospi-
tal, where he was superintendent when he enlisted.
Surgeon Lieut.-Col. (Dr.) Hayward, C.M.G., has
got his son Ilarold back ironr the Front: he was
a private in the 10th Battalion.
There died on Sunday, just a week before her
94th birthday, Mrs. D. W. Scott, who landed at
the Semaphore in August, ’53, and had spent nearly
the whole of her life in this State. She loved
painting flowers, and when she was 02 she took it
up professionally, at the suggestion of Lady Klntore.
Her only child, Winnifred Scott, is well known to
Australian writers and journalists.
A drear tale of the desolation in Belgium and
Northern France comes from Mrs. H. G. Reid, who
before her marriage was a Miss Brock. She motore d
from Paris to Brussels with her soldier husband in
February, and saw graves everywhere. She describes
Belgium as “one vast quivering wound.' 1 At
Avesnes “it was like a glow from a warm flame
to see Australians everywhere.”
The Public Library Board has added to its po-
sessions a diary compiled from the letters of John
Ainsworth Horroeks, the explorer, b.y his sister,
Celia Temple. The diary, which is in manuscript,
also contains a sketch of the explorer's life and
a map showing the route of his journeyings through
the country north of Spencer's Gulf.
Felice Higgins, daughter of the William
Higgins pair, of Mon Repos, Tooralt, has
just signalled her engagement from Maori-
land. The young man brought forward for
congratulations is Lieut. R. Bruce Smith,
son of G. J. Bruce Smith, of Christchurch.
Singer Violet Kerr is wearing a new dia-
mond ring, a token of her coming marriage
to F. 11. Peterson, a returned soldier and a
son of the late Godfrey Peterson.
Medical-Captain Alan Newton sends word
from England that he lias booked for the
Matrimonial Stakes with an English girl. Dr.
Alan, who understudied Dr. Fred Bird in the
pre-war days, is a good-looking young Aus-
tralian.
Mrs. Charles Henderson, of the Australian
Comforts Fund newspaner-depot, raised over
£3OOO during the war by collecting and sell-
ing assorted waste-paper; and the thrifty
labors of the depot workers are now to be
continued on benalf of the Children’s Hospi-
tal and Melbourne’s “baby health centres.”
Mrs. Henderson means to retire from her
honorary, self-discovered job in October, when
she will have completed a full three-years
term in harness. The average war-time in-
come from the collections was £125 a month,
a rate which will mean a lot to the babies if
it can be kept up for the future.
Miss Millar, the visiting religionist who is
belter known ns Sister Elinor, is a remark-
able woman. She began here as a Salvation
Army officer, and afterwards was one of
Pastor Edgar’s nuns, at Wesley Church, with,
Sisters Hannah, Ruth, etc. Then she struck
out for the United States, and became a 4
favorite worker with the Nofthfield establish-
ment at Chicago, left by Moody, and iden-
tified with Torrey, Wilbur Chapman and
Charles Alexander.
Rita Hope, at the piano, and singer Violet
Somerset indulged in a concert lust week in
the Assembly Hall. The recital was an
artistic success and drew a devotional audi-
ence.
Brisbane having imposed severe ’flu
restrictions, Bananaland musicians Cahill
and Brookes have had to lay their tours on
the shelf.
Dr. Price, the good-natured Town Hall
organist, was touched on a sensitive spot
at last week’s municipal concert when a
party of gabbling women insisted upon chat-
tering while he was playing. Price tried
hard to ignore the disturbance, but it was
more than his artistic temperament could
stand. “If you don’t stop talking I can't
play,” he announced at last, and the shamed
gasbags collapsed.


FIGHTING THE INFLUENZA
THE FOUR PRINCIPAL FACTORS EMPLOYED.
In fighting the menace that has been
threatening the people of Australia
during the last few months, four weapons
have been principally employed, viz.:
The MASK, to cover the face and keep the germs
out; a VACCINE, with which the public have
been inoculated to increase resistance; many kinds
of DISINFECTANTS, to kill floating germs; and
lastly, but by no means least, various REMEDIES
to keep the system free from germs, clean and in
order.
It can be said that, in this latter particular, Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
have played an important part without any booming, such as was done by
many to use the influenza epidemic to attract attention to their commodities,
for which they were of little use. Straight announcements were made
advising the public to keep their systems in order by taking an occasional
dose of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills together with 10 grains of Aspirin or
Quinine, but on no account to try to doctor themselves should they show
any signs of the real Influenza, but to send for the doctor and to go to bed.
This advice has been followed to a wonderful extent. Tens of thousands of bottles of Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills have been sold since the epidemic started. One retail company alone has passed across.its counters
over five thousand bottles every thirty days. Many wholesale houses have exceeded this quantity in Sydney,
Melbourne and Adelaide. More than a ton of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills was sold during each of the
epidemic months. There are about two thousand two hundred pills to the pound (anyone can work it out),
which makes over five million pills sold during each month in Australia, or at the rate of about a pill for every
man, woman and child on the continent. The wonderful character of this sale is further emphasised when it is
known that no salesmen were employed whatsoever. Orders came through the mail, or over the telegraph and
telephone wires, and were in response to the genuine demands of the trade. It can, therefore, be seen that
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills have played their part, as already stated, with the Mask, Inoculation and
Disinfectants, in fighting this epidemic.
It is not claimed they are better than anything else made for similar purposes, but it is claimed that they
are far better than most and equal'to the best made in this or any other country —and why notP The
Proprietors have been making pills for nearly a century, and for twenty-five years they have been in constant
use in Australia. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are like Ford cars. It is quantity production that makes
them possible at the price. If the formula were taken to a chemist he would charge five shillings to
make it up, and there would be no guarantee that the ingredients had not lost their efficiency. That cannot
happen in manufacturing Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills. The ingredients are bought in large quantities and
rapidly used up, and the activity of this pill is certain. They are sold to the public at a shilling or a little
more, subject to local conditions, and in any case the public gets good value. These are the reasons for their
immense popularity, which can be summed up in the two words, “Absolutely Dependable.”


Charles
HeidsieckS
Vintage 1906
CMfiraw
ME PLUS ULTRA
tan*
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Your
Figure
Re-created
By the SHAVE
system of model fit-
ting it is possible
to have your figure
re-created in the
Shave Workrooms
and upon the re-
creation per f ect
gowns built without any fittings.
The name “Shave" is an assurance
of vogue.
Visits to Sydney and Adelaide twice
and to Brisbane once yearly
SHAVE
Ladies' Tailors
Dressmakers
Centreway
Melbourne
May we invite you to our next Display ?
LADIES, PLEASE!
We do not want you to pass this advertise-
ment by. as it concerns every one of you.
The Dove Hosiery Stores, recently com-
menced, is the only store selling single pairs
of Hosiery and Gloves at wholesale prices.
We defy competition. Those who can, visit
our showroom; others, mail us your require-
ments. We guarantee every satisfaction.
Here are a few value
• HOSIERY.
“American Beauty,” Pure Silk Hose, full-
fashioned, seam, black or white, full-length
silk 13/6 pair.
“L 37” Heavy Pure Silk Hose, full-fashioned,
seam, will not ladder, sold in shops at 21/-
pair, black only. Our Price, 14/11 pair.
Pure Silk, Ankle Hose, all Colors, very
su P eri « r 7/6 pair.
“OUR” Ribbed Silk Ankle Hose, black or
white, equal to any 7/6 hose, wholesale
price 3/6 pair.
Black or White only.
The Dove Hosiery Stores
(Take Lift to 4th Floor),
Australian Buildings, 49 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
PAULINE et CIE
Announce their Autumn and Winter
Show of Millinery on & after March 11
Miss Gray will show Model Frocks, Coats and
Skirls, Blouses, etc., on and after March 25
3rd Floor,Denison House Chambers
Telephone 10167. George Street, SYDNEY.
Hotel de Luxe.
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
The Healthiest and most Beautiful Spot on
the Harbor. As warm in Winter as the South
of France.
Recommended by the Minister for Health and
the Medical Faculty. Finest Cuisine. Hot
and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Beautiful Beaches,
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths,
Fishing.
Tariff, from 12/6 per day, or
£3/10/- per week.
Tels.: Y3OOl, 3002.
Apply Manager.
A WOMAN’S
LETTER
DAVID
JONES
for
SMART
MILLINERY
On Thursday Sydney shook off her sulks
and trimmed herself with golden sun-
light to commemorate the unforgettable
Landing of 1915. All thronged and
beflagged ways led to the Town Hall, where
four padres led the congregation in prayer
and hymn, encouraged with a wonderful
heartfulness by soldier and sailor, maimed
and sound, who were there in hundreds.
Many were carried in the arms of comrades;
now and again a cheerily-grinning chap came
riding pick-a-back, with his own poor useless
legs . held stiffly out. There was a great
burst of applause when the colors were being
draped around the back of the stage—greens
and golds, blues and violets —and the pulse
of the crowd of khaki-clad men leapt again to
the flags. There was wave after wave of cheer-
ing. Matron Cameron, who was injured in
1915 in the Aegean Sea, was borne in by
four soldiers, and then the cheers swelled
again. A big official with a heavy Scotch
burr and the stars, who seemed to have every
seat in the hall tabulated in his brain, stood
stiffly to attention. Under cover of this ex-
citement a little woman in black stole in. By
her side trotted a golden-haired youngster
wearing daddy’s colors on his arm: the green
and white topped by the A. While the
imagination was still stirred by the echoes of
the Last Post, she went on to the stage,
almost t’oe last of the quiet looking men
and women who ascended the steps to take
ribbon and medal, in honor of those who died
for the nation.
All Sydney’s thorough-paced party-goers
were at the Garden Island At Home to the
Fleet. The evening began with theatricals
and the sail-loft was filled with rows of
collapsible chairs that required careful navi-
gation by the audience. “The Rest Cure”
and “The Playgoers” were the two playlets.
The former seemed to conceal a warning nut
to have “nerves,” and the folly of a man
losing sight of his leg envelopes upon enter-
ing a nursing home. Harold Watch, with a
strong support of female beauty, was the
“star” in the hospital scene; but Captain C.
Keith Cohen had the house in “The Play-
goers”—which was evidently written by
Pinero in a moment of dejection. M rs.
Roy Buckland shared the lead with
Cedric Cohen. Others were Mrs. Burrows.
Mrs. Salter, Mrs. Bromwich, Doris Rook
(who promises well in low-comedy parts).
Lena Blaxland and Daisy Fell. After the
final curtain the collapsible seats were
banged together, and dancing commenced in
earnest. Commanders Wilkinson, Burrows
and Glossop and their wives were present,
the tall Mrs/ Burrows draping her shoulders
in a jade-green scarf. Mrs. Rolin, in black,
chaperoned one pink and one buttercup
daughter, and Jean Curlewis in pale blue;
the Macarthur Onslow miss brightened her
black raiment with a blue sash : the tiny and
fair Toto Beith flashed her emerald-green
frock through every dance; Mrs. Venour
Nathan had the sleekest head and the only
black panne frock in the room; Mrs. Roy
Buckland contrasted her fairness against
reseda green ; Cecily Cattrell and Mrs. J. K.
Osborne chose brocade with its old-world
•suggestion; while Mrs. Henry Hill Osborne
wore old-rose velvet; and black was the
raiment of Mrs. Owen Dibbs. There were
yards of gold braid and a khaki suit or two
to dance with the pretty girls, so everybody
was happy.
The night before the arrival of the Mel-
bourne and the six destroyers, various Syd-
ney pressmen who had to do the “introduc-
tions” to the papers’ naval welcome looked
at the sky and decided that to-morrow was
going to be fine. Then they turned to their
desks and wrote beautiful stories about blue
skies and sunshine. One, with anthill
ideals, guessed that the sailors would perish
of disappointment “if every headland were
not black with people.” As soon as some
of his rhapsody was in type, the rain clouted
down again. When morning came several
wild journalists looked out on a dripping
world and saw that they should have
selected Scotch mist or shower-bath over-
tures for their overnight studies. When the
wet cruiser and the six damp destroyers
slid up to their moorings about 10.30 a.m.
the crews saw the Domain slopes speckled
with black umbrellas and glum citizens in
goloshes. The morning scribes having
crashed, the naval experts of the evening
papers splashed to their offices and rattled
out yards about “long grey ships of war
silently stealing to their moorings through
the mist.” That afternoon the city was
full of sailors silently stealing to their well-
won refreshments—and getting plenty of
them.
Cinderella Sydney, with her slipper
just returned to her by Prince Billjim,
who has taken nearly five years in outwit-
ting the German knave that had stolen it,
has fitted it on, and is simply crazy to try
all the new steps she's been learning. So in
addition to the Peace Ball and the Grand
Rose Ball, the Queen's Club is giving a ball,
and there’s talk of a Matrons’ Ball—the very
pick of the matron’s basket. As a dead
secret, it’s going to cost them £l5 each, but
for that little lot they may invite eight
guests.
The Munro-Ferguson had a rush to Syd-
ney last week, to welcome our jaunty little
fleet of destroyers. He attended the Com-
memoration Service on Thursday morning,
and shook hands with the commanders in the
afternoon. To lighten his burdens the com-
mittee of the A.J.C. passed him a plate or
two at the Randwick lunch-table.
As though she resented her good humor
of Thursday, Sydney turned a petulant face
to Randwick on Saturday, and the Autumn
Cup meeting ended with savage sweeps of
rain. This meant the stand shelter for
the furs and tailorings. Nevertheless, Cor-
rectly turned-out flappers were quite a
feature of the day. Mrs. Gordon Wesche
flung a marabout cape over her black
frock, while a cavalier cape gave Mrs.
Rabett’s navy suit quite a dashing look;
Madame Shimizu smiled serenely over blue
fox and the impeccability of embroidered blue
charmeuse; green cloth and black fringe
clothed Helen Macarthur Onslow ; the Alec
Dalgleidhs, from Goulburn, were there, Mrs.
Alec in dark tailorings and skunk; the
Ranee wrapped her sealskin about the last
word in coat frocks; the two pretty Rolin
girls brought mother in dark blue and white
check; Madame de Beaupuis was with
daughter Mrs. Osborne, who added slash-
ings of cerise to her navy suit, and wrapped
her hat and throat in pink veilings; Mrs.
Bertie Sheldon aired a magnificent diamond
brooch and a smart top coat; Minister Ful-
ler's daughter wore Wedgwood blue under
musquash ; Cissy Jamieson pulled a blue
hat over her gold crown and brought with
her Primrose Caryll, who is helping to tell
“Nothing but the Truth”; Commander Bur-
rows's lady supported smart tailorings;
pretty Una Barton was a picture in pale
grey tones: Mrs. Scott brought her black
and white checks from Newcastle, and had
with her sister Belle Rankin in brown ; and
Captain Roy Forrest’s brand new wife
smiled above rose jersey cloth.
Will Edgar has
been in the fleet in
Australian waters
since 1906. In 1910
he went to England
in H.M.S. Gibraltar,
under command of
Captain Grant,
erved in the Nep-
tune under Admiral
Callaghan, gained his
commission and served
on . the Australia,
during her building
and till 1918, when
he was appointed
chief engineer of the
Iris. He was in the
Zeebrugge and Os-
tend adventures.
The little job of the
Iris was to land a storming party at the
Mole and participate in the blocking opera-
tions. Edgar now wears a D.S.C. for
bravery. For 27 hours continuously he
stuck to his post. The Iris was brought
home safely to port in a badly-damaged con-
dition. The young man is now Engineer-
Lieutenant Edgar of the JeVvis Bay Naval
College.
Governor Davidson hasn’t been working
on the “go slow” during the week. All
sorts of functions to the Fleet had- to be
attended, as well as race meetings, and the
handing over of the Prince Alfred Hospital
cheque (a trifle of £27,960). On Friday
evening the Victory League roped his Ex.
in to preside at its annual meeting.
The casual callers at Government House
with the Girls’ Friendly Society Hostel as
their objective rather gasped at the radiance
of her Ex., who received them. Her frock
was of georgette and silk, in grey of the
softest tones, it was cut tunic effect, with
upholstery of fringe and embroidery; but the
frock had not been donned to greet the
ladies interested in the G.F.S. Their visit
was merely an interlude between a smart
race-luncheon party and another function.
Archgaiters Wright, with the support of
Justice Docker, outlined the scheme of the
hostel, for which £5OOO is needed.
The Liverpools, the vice-regals in Maori-
land, will close their reign in a few months.
They have been in the Shivery Isles for six
years.
Rev. James Colwell, historian of Metho-
dism in N. S. Wales, with wife and daughter,
are passengers by the Plassy. A long sea
voyage is deemed necessary for the lady’s
health.
Singer lima Elliott, of Sydney, agreed to
make Major John Caldwell, of Lancashire
(Eng.), a happy man as far as lay in her
power. The contract was signed at the pro-
cathedral. Kensington West, London, by
Father Owens. The bride’s brother, Ser-
geant Lindsay L. Elliott, in England on
special leave, handed the girl over.
Billjemima learned quite a lot of things
during the war. One of her was billeted for
a while near a Digger battalion in France.
Later, she mentioned the fact to her fond
mother. “They were splendid fellows, ma;
but they used such funny language.” “I
hope, my dear, you didn’t pick up any of
their ‘funny’ language.” “Oh, no, ma ; just a
few words like and and .” “For
Heaven’s sake, child, be quiet!” shrieked the
horrified parent. “Suppose your father heard
you!” “Oh, d —n father!” replied the un-
dutiful one.
Here is Dion
Titheradge (and
Australians don’t
need to be told who
his father was) in
his uniform of the
Royal Field Artil-
lery. He joined up
with the British Ex-
peditionary Forces
and was in three
engagements in Rou-
mania against the
Bulgar. Here he got
his first star, and
was congratulated
before the regiment
by his O.C. for
“splendid and intelli-
gent service.” At
present he is in
Salonika longing to get back to see the only
baby in the world, who uttered her first pro-
test against a war-torn earth while daddy
was whanging at the enemy. Another lure
to London is his sketch, “The K.C.,” which,
after a successful run in “the Provinces,” is
to be on the London boards this season.
Tosti’s good-bye isn’t in it with the Kelly
good-bye. Everybody in Sydney who enter-
tains spread the table damask to absorb the
parting tear. The Euripides took away Mr.
and Mrs. “Bertie” with their girls and a boy
who is going to Eton. The forceful Mrs. T.
H. knows exactly what each child’s future is
going to be. She has it all planned out.
Fate? Now, do you think Fate would dare
interfere?
The Bulletin spoke some weeks ago
about the work that the sisters of Yeats, the
Irish poet, w r ere-doing in re-establishing the
art of hand-printing and beautiful old Irish
embroideries. Well, • some of the results of
their teaching, and the industry of the little
band of peasant girls they have gathered
around them, are here with us in Sydney.
The Royer of t Library is showing the fasci-
nating treasures under the name of the
“Cuala Industries.”
All Saints’ College, at Bathurst (N.S.W.),
is about to close down, after 40 years work.
The fine building is on one of the most pro-
minent hills on the plains. The property
belongs to a former headmaster. Rev. Canon
Tracy, now resident in England. Amongst
old boys are C. G. Wade, Arthur Jose, W. H.
Kelly, M.H.R., and C. E. W. Bean, war
correspondent. The fighting record of the
college can be disclosed with pride, Two
hundred ex-students enlisted, and one of
them, Corporal A. Hall, won the V.C.
Claines, the R. T. Carter home just pur-
chased by R. B. Orchard, of the Federal Min-
istry, was simply packed from attic to cellar
with art gems that make the Arabian Nights’
treasures less like fiction. The Sevres and
Chelsea collection was possibly one of the
most unique private collections in the world ;
while the Royal Worcester and Wedgwood
certainly had no rival in Sydney. There
were innumerable fine specimens of Georgian
silver, among which was a tea-caddy that
Doctor Johnson would have adored. It was
of George 111. design elaborately embossed
with figures of Neptune and Diana with a
host of cherubs in attendance. One priceless
treasure was a porcelain cameo of Napoleon.
Before this was gathered to the Carter fold
it belonged to the Moore family who claim
that the Little Corporal gave it to their
grand-dad on St. Helena’s far isle. Book-
lovers focussed upon three original etchings
by Thackeray for “Vanity Fair,” and the
original xmlume- (first edition) of the work
that gave birth to the inimitable Becky.
There were paintings by wizards of color,
and carpets that might have accompanied
Cleopatra on her unconventional visit to
Caesar. Six thousand pounds of the proceeds of
the sales go to the Carter banking account, and
connoisseurs think that Christie’s would have
paid tlii times that figure for the collec-
Hj n 'c< j r " '^ arter was one of the figures of
old Sydney, and his antique shop at the
corner or Jamieson-street had a renown that
was world-wide. Thirty years ago he put up
the shutters and transported cases of the
treasures to the Darling Point house which
had been the Jack Want home. Some of the
cases, they say, were never unpacked until
the sale.
The Empire Concert on Saturday night
failed to attract Verbrugghen’s usually
large audience. Alfred Hill’s Maori Rhap-
sody was a deserved encore. Frank Charl-
ton, a tall young man from Maoriland, was
found guilty of having a rich baritone. Mad-
ame Verbrugghen sang a group of folk
songs, and “Land of Hope and Glory.” for
which her voice proved too light, but the
orchestral background made the contribution
charming.
Brisbane joins the tea-party:—
Mrs. Langbery, younger daughter of Justice Chubb,
brought her two young daughters over from Korea
the other day. They are staying at St. llalo, the
Chubb home. Dad is looking after the interests
of the Standard American Oil Co. in Seoul.
Ex-Senator Bob Sayers, who died last week, came
to Australia in ’63, at the age of 19, and started
to chase gold. It was in ’7B that he first entered
politics and got into Bananaland Assembly for a
five years’ spell. He afterwards went to the Fed-
eral House, from which he resigned about five
years ago. His home at New Farm was a kind
of caravanserai for old pals from the North.
The John Macdonalds are waiting for their son
Roy, who is a flight-lieutenant. Macdonald senior is
the managing-director of John Bridge and Co.
The members of the Soldiers’ Comforts Fund
farewelled their president, the Cowley dame, last
week, and thrust silver candlesticks and a silver
clock upon her.
Edna Raymond Jones, daughter of A. R. Jones, of
Indooroopilly, and a cousin of the pretty Sydney
Jones girls, is to be married in a few days to
George Darvall.
Influenza has killed Walter Williams, the popular
manager of the Queensland Trustees, Ltd. He had
been only 18 months in Brisbane, and was a solici-
tor of the Supreme Court of N. S. Wales.
Brisbane slapped the Australian Navy on the back,
begged it to drop in at the Club, and ’insisted
that it should dine and dance every night. The
boats were swarmed over by visitors, and the fare-
wells (some of them at least) were most pathetic.
Mrs. F. K. Brodribb hostessed a cheery dinner-
party on —-'.rday night in honor of pianist Eddie
Cahill and singer George Brooke.
■Last Saturday the remaining Sydney Jones girl
met at the altar rails Lieut. Dundas Gore, R.F.C.,
son of the Fred Gores, of Goondiwindi. The bride-
groom was an original 2nd L.H. man, who, after
doing his bit on Gallipoli, got into the Air Service,
was taken prisoner and sent to Austria. The bride
is the eldest daughter of Mrs. J. T. Bell and the
late Sydney Jones, solicitor, of Rockhampton. The
only bridesmaid was Margot Bell, the bride’s half-
sister. Major and Mrs. Arnold Weinholt (the latter
is a sister and has only been married a few weeks)
were at the wedding.
During the week the small boy about town
? d , l i the . flap l )< ; r * iav « been enjoying the fun
ot the bread-basket outside Challis House,
lo prove that 1916-17 wheat could be made
into rood that wouldn't give the consumer the
whooping-cough or measles or something, the
Government had some bread baked
from it, and distributed small rolls in
Martin-place. In the window of Challis
“° use ,, « lea “ ed 1 such a vari-colored
of iced cakes, such a crispness of
„ that . tha exhibition suggested the
tM, kodety had been working overtime.
Are they real, or only cardboard-painted?'
S ,™, e woman with an inquiring nose.
‘W t r n ° W - ab V ut that >” spoke up another.
„ l i‘ U 1 \ h( r ( ' onntr -V- and I make my
•hi T ’ b 1 ’ i - nd , r w ® uldn ’t like to tell voii
all Ive seen m the 1916 flour.” “Dashed if
Id like to eat it. anyhow.” decided a taxi-
man who was near-by. But taxi-men are
deserve? 8 WaDtlDg more than they
The Millions Club has set up rooms for
Tb .v ovei \ the Royal Bank of Australia,
liny say they are the nucleus of what is
fen Ha ‘f St f- lld lal 'S est club in Aus-
tiaha largest eating club.
Fi^l he r/ first Sale ™ ade at thG Sa] ° a of
r « a W et S , a Julian Ashton. “The
ridge, and the buyer was Howard Hinton,
xr° WaS , th s . firs t Purchaser that art-
J.r nVo! 1 ™ 111 l iad ir l S / dne y- Other buyers
during the week included the Dean of Syd-
ney. J
The Junior Red Cross Exhibition is indefi-
hS>rf P r ed ' . Ifc is felt that the kiddies
haven t had a chance to make their best
curtsey, owing to the epidemic.


LIMITED
TRAVELLING DAGS
Solid cn£ish LeaiherTraVelling Bad
2d inches Jong, leather-lined, fitted with pair ofi
Shorn) Hat Brushes ; Chonij Hat & Clothes Brushes,
hour Silver filotinted Bottles, Soap Box. Tflirror
Batons, & Strop. Receptacle Cor Shirts fitted
into hack of lid.
£2O-0-0
5% discount allowed
on all cash purchases.
Hardy Brothers b?
13 HUNTER ST
SYDNEY.
298 COLLINS ST
MELBOURNE..
J^ewe/fers
116118 QUEEN ST
BRISBANE...
AND AT
LONDON..
Free INSTRUCTION
IN PHOTOGRAPHY
at HARRINGTONS’
We teach photography free to every purchaser of
a camera, no matter what make, either personally or
by mail, showing how to make the exposure, develop
the negative, make the print, and give intruction in
everything pertaining to those operations.
This is a good reason why you should buy your camera from us. Another
is, we have
TKe World’s Best Makes
from which to make your selection.
ENSI G N S —BROWNIES —KODAKS
ANSCOS and Many OtHers
At Prices to Suit Every Requirement.
For Schoolboys and girls the Ensign (British-made) Brownie and Buster
Brown (Ansco) Box Form Cameras, for Roll Films, are easy to use, and give
splendid results. They can be Loaded and Unloaded in Daylight.
Prices, 10/-, 15/6, 18/6 and 23/- each.
Magazine Cameras (British-made), for plates which are carried in the camera,
9/-, 12/6, 25/- 30/-, 37/6, 55/-
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE IF YOU CANNOT CALL.
Harringtons’ Laboratories
Specialise in Metallurgical and Assay Work.
Every branch of Metallurgical Analysis and Refinement, Ore Testing
and Assay Work is done at Harringtons’ Laboratories. Jewellers’.
Dentists’ and other Metalworkers’ Sweeps, Residues and other Waste Pro-
ducts treated in the most expeditious and efficient manner, every grain of
metal that is of value being extracted.
We Collect Material for Treatment in City or Suburbs, free
of
A note or ’phone message to any of our branches will receive
prompt attention.
SUWU4Z£SP7?4 LT?
Photographic and Cinematographic Merchants,
Metallurgists, Analysts and Assayers,
386 George Street, Sydney.
93-95 Queen Street, Brisbane.
144 Queen Street, Auckland.
266 Collins Street, Melbourne.
43 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
42 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Laboratories and Works: 57-59 George Street North, Sydney
* ...
A Splendid Repair by the
Oxy-Acetylene Process,
NOW, more than ever, experienced engineers pin their faith in the Oxy-
Acetylene Fusion Process in time of breakdown trouble. Users of
machinery on the land and in the workshop find the Oxy-Acetylene
Process a wonderful factor in saving money by abolishing the necessity for
buying new parts of machinery and new tools.
The illustration shows a Steel Acid Container belonging to the Ammonia
Company of Australia, Sydney. The section outlined by the chalk marks
was eaten away to a mere shell. The job was taken in hand by J. Paterson
and Co., Expert Oxy-Acetylene Operators, of Chippendale, Sydney. The
corroded section was cut away with the Oxy-Acetylene Cutting Blowpipe, and
a new section welded in with the Welding Blowpipe, a perfect fusion, return-
ing the container to its original homogeneous state for a trifle compared with
the cost of a new one.
Comtnonwealth Oxygen. G? li^|
TPioneers c£ the Qxygerc Industry
in Australia.
FOY ST BALMAIN • K-5-W
Agents: Eyrie & Stewart. 3fi2 Collins St., Melbourne; Alex. Ingram & Co.. Wyatt St., Adelaide; Erans,
Deakin & Co., 121 Eagle St., Brisbane; Harrison Bros. & Co. ltd., 20 Patterson St., Launceston,
Geo. Wills & Co. Ltd., Murray St., Perth; Brown. & Joske, Suva, Fiji.
its
This is one example
of Motor-car Repairs.
THIS motor-car charged a wall, with
the result that the channel frame,
on two sides out of three, was
badly broken. Under ordinary circum-
stances it would mean considerable dis-
mantling and ugly patches.
The adaptability and convenience of the Oxy-
Acetylene Blowpipe obviated expense, trouble and
delay. The repair was effected with very little
dismantling of the ear, as you can see, because the
Oxy-Acetylene Operator can use the blowpipe in
any position, in any direction.
There is no comparison between Fire Welding and the
Oxy-Acetylene Welding Process, which is a perfect fusion
of the parts to be joined.
There is good business for garages operating an Oxv-
Acetylene Repair Outfit, which enables broken axles,
crank and gear cases, steering gear and every broken tool
or metal part composed 0 f cast and wrought iron, mild
steel, brass, copper, aluminium and gunmetal to be per-
fectly repaired for a trifle compared with the cost of
new parts.
Factories, Workshops, Shipyards, Ironfoundries
and all who use machinery will find the Oxy-
Acetylene Process a money-saving one.
Write for Booklet fully describing the many appli-
cations of the Oxy-Acetylene Blowpipe.


jinn m uiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimimiiiiiniinjiiuiiiiuiiiiiuiuimiHuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiH
spniiiiiimi/iiiiuiimiuii(jiimmnimuiiu
CK
m
IS
PHTlni
UITI J m iri I nW—^Trrrrrrnli^^
ThePb a
Cbnj/dPf
in a collar that really fits tiou and,
additionally, gives CORRECT-
NESS to your appearance.
Such are PELACO Collars.
They ’re made for men who like
comfort, whilst appreciating the
Value of good style. Pelaco
Collars, Shirts & Pyjamas are sold
by reliable Mercers everywhere.
COLLARS
Made in Australia
“THERE’S MONEY IN THE PEN.”
as
hi
The above
is the title
of our book-
let, which
tells about
the possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
by HARRY J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
difference between
learning to COPY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains, in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
penny stamps
to-day for a
copy of this
booklet—
“THEßE’S
MONEY
IN
THE
PEN.”
the harry j. weston
Postal School of Drawing
126 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY.
Do You Know
Esterbrook s Pen Nibs?
A RE you satisfied with the nibs vou are using: ?
If not, write ESTERBROOK, Box »8
G.P.0., Sydney, describing the qualities you
like in a nib. Free samples by return post.
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS
DRAUGHTSMEN’& OFFICE USE,
mmmmm
*1 m
Perfection
F»ITSK RUBBER
“TNRAWING FOR PLEASURE AND
starting May 15 in The Soldier,
bow. 14/- per year. 20 Loftus Street,
PROFIT”:
Subscribe
Sydney.
(Mf e
JLZ^lflosicry
CPECIALIZED
~ methods in desi&n-
in& and knitting pro-
duce in Luxite Hosiery
a closely woven tex-
ture of remarkable
durability and re-
splendent beauty un-
surpassed for the
money by any other
hosiery in the world.
Don’t accept substitutes and think
you have “Luxite.” Insist upon
the genuine. If your dealer is
unable to supply you, write us.
Walter Cathro Pty.Ltd.
York Street, SYDNEY.
xmu
1
idy
•ains, "
Here’s a fine hotel—one that
will satisfy your every need.
It is in the heart of the city—handy '
to all business areas, trams, trains,
theatres and public buildings.
Kooms are modern, airy and comfortable,
the cuisine “home-like” and ample, the
service quick and courteous. Make the
Queen’s MELBOURNE
QUEEN’S ARMS 1
HOTEL
C! SWANSTON ST & FLINDERS LANE
CLAUDE,R.KERR PIS j
YOU
CAN MAKE
<£2o
WEEKLY!
without
experience by
showing
* MOVING PICTURES
We sell complete Moving Picture Out-
fits, including Biograph Machine, Light,
and Films, FROM £25 UPWARDS by EASY
INSTALMENTS. No matter what coun-
try you live in, you can have one. SHOW-
MEN, write for our special list and terms.
500,000 FEET OF FILM AT 4d. A FOOT.
Send To-Day for Free Catalog
It shows how to start a first class Picture
Show by paying a small deposit, and then
weekly instalments.
WORLD’S BIOGRAPH CO.
HO Bathurst St., Sydney, N.S. W.
DRAWS FROM THE BLOOD
THE POISONS
which cause Bad Legs, Sore Feet, Car-
buncles, Boils,Varicose Ulcers, Bunions,
Eczema, Piles, etc., and those arising from
Insect and Mosquito Bites.
The Proprietors of Grasshopper Ointment
have an absolute confidence in its unsur-
passed merits. They know it to be a safe
and perfect cure for all skin and blood ail-
ments; and the vast number of testimonials
received prove it to be. Grasshopper Oint-
ment positivelydraws the poisons which pro-
duce these maladies out of the system As
an aperient, liver medicine and blood purifier,
the Grasshopper Pills are equally effective,
and should b“ taken in conjunction with the
Ointment. Sold by all Drug Stores and
Chemists throughout the Commonwealth.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Gentian*,
SONGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
sSiiiuiiji:!;?;:;;;;?
tJsed since 1596. CURES Write for Boo*
AUSTRALIAN BLICHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road. Loudon, England,
Insist on “Singleton's”—refuse all substitutes.
ABBEY
SHOES
Men who realise that a smart and cor-
rectly addressed appearance is an ASSET
should wear ABBEY SHOES.
They are made in all the latest models,
and their long 1 service makes them
economical, as well as distinctive.
Being made in half and full sizes, and in
three fittings—narrow, medium and wide
—we are able to guarantee a perfect fit.
We illustrate a choice Tan Willow Calf
Bal PRICE 30/- and 42/-
Also in Box Calf, with Dull Calf Legs.
PRICE 40/-
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND.
THE KEY TO
PROSPERITY.
QUEENSLAND
opens the door to
prosperity lor those
requiring land
Particulars ot the
millions ol acres ol
Crown Land
now available will be
sent you at once,
also Booklets on the
Slate's resources—
FREE
/V amt
Address
Queensland Government
huUiteace and Tourist Bureau
BRISBANE
-rr
S.B.
A FAVORITE IN COUNTRY. —Two-bladed
Stock Knife (one blade castrating, other ordinary
stvie), with tweezers and steel pricker for removing
splinters. Made by Charles Ibbotson & Co.,
Sheffield, Eng. Post Free.:
Manufacturers’ Selling Agency, 8 Spring St., Sydney.
Public Notices.
QOUND BOXES FOR TALKING MACHINES.—
O Commonwealth Patent No. 15,867, dated 24th
March, 1915, for an invention entitled “Improve-
ments in Sound Boxes for Talking Machines.” The
Governments and the public of the Commonwealth
and manufacturers are hereby notified that any
reasonable requirements in regard to permission,
upon rovalty or other agreement, to employ the said
invention in Australia will be satisfied by the under-
signed on application being made as hereunder
stated. ALVA DILLON JONES, Patentee, in care ot
Collison & Co., Patent Attorneys, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne. 14th May, 1919.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
THE PALACE HOTEL
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OF PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
JOHN T. GLOWREY, Proprietor.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No nolice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless statnps accompany.
Eve: Well, as Tiie Bulletin said before,
will you go to police headquarters and put your story
to the Inspector-General ?.... Sandfly: Well put
together; but it’s a very old gag. .. .H.1.M.: A
point, perhaps; but you have fogged it... .Eileen:
Rather well done; but hardly enough interest in
it... .Carramba: Had it, thanks. .. .V.K.: Goes off
badly in every fourth line. .. .J.C. (Vic.): Several
poems have been written about “The Anzac’’ and
few of them are much worse. .. .H.C.W.: Fearful
stuff... .J.8.M.: Nowhere near print... .H.8.R.: Re-
jected. Copy is returned when stamps are en-
closed.... Kik: Doesn’t thrill with that telling....
H.M.W.: Verse poor ; idea thin ; grammar ragged....
A.P.T.: Verses, or whatever they are, in this column
are paid for; but there are too many genuine
beauties to admit fakes... .C. 5.0.: About as bad as
they can be made... .K.R.F.: “Tin Snatcher” moves
too heavily... .F.W. (Toowoomba) : Poor attempt....
J.M. (Petersham): Idiotic... .C.A.F.: No use....
H.C.G.: Misses... .C.E.H.: “Failures” done so much
better before, and there’s a meaningless tag in the
last line. “Cross Roads” astray... .R.F.W.: Two
rhymes to every eight lines and all the rhymes same
in 11 stanzas is over the odds... .C.J.W.: “Old Gaol”
doesn’t attract. (P.S. —No gaol ever did.)....
T.1.H.: “Kelly” goes over worn-out ground... .Stringy
Bark: Too mechanical... .A.T.G.: You fail to make
it interesting. .. .Billy Third: Yarns miss—by a little.
Go ahead.... Seedy: They fail, but not by much....
Aurelius: You can’t twist words in that mad
fashion, unless you desire to be spoken to sharply... .
C.R.M.: Hasn’t nearly enough force to make its point.
....A.P.T.: It’s sorrowful enough, as you say:—
Braced and tethererf to the earth
A eall-bi-d sat in tears,
He cursed the egg that gave him birth,
With the trapper and his gears.
The net was set, the ropes were taut,
The trapper lurked abush
All ready to pull the trigger cord
And swish the nefs aswosh.
A great wedge-tail at lightning rate
Came swooping on his prey,
But the trapper jerked the string too late
And the eagle got away.
The man did then the net unfold
With tears his eyes aflood,
For all he caught lay clotted, cold,
The call-bird’s heart’s life-blood.
. ...V.A.F.: Get your own phrases and ideas. Too
many in these verses are commonplace.... Edee: Re-
plied to before. Very poor sonnet... .A.J.D.:
Nothing there. .. .L.R.C.: “Pine Trees” not up....
Sewage Contract: No use Sticker: No; “The
Winds” don’t do it... .Prastone: Not up, but some
promise... .H.M. (Middle Park): Wild thing with
no point. .. .G.E.A.P.: You call it a “Phase of
Immigration,” but it reads more like a phase of
insanity. . . .D.M.M.: Nice verse, but it won’t do. .. .
M.J.S.: Your “One Desire” was so horribly ex-
pressed that we had to put it out of its misery....
J.T.H.: Correct, uninteresting sonnet. Sonnet 3 are
a dull pastime... .E. A. M.: No use to us....Tenny-
son-Byron: Verse very wobbly... .O.B.: Let it go
and we’ll swap the risk: —
Oh! to remember the fifth anniversary,
Of our dear boys that landed on Gallipolia ;
So worthy of praise of Martyrologv,
That we will never see them meagrely.
0. Oh! to remember these boys that fought so true,
That landed on that battle’s shore ;
V The pluckiest and bravest of crews
May they live in peace and joy for evermore.
Oh ! mav this day bring happiness and joy,
Although there’s many an aching heart;
For many a one lost their dear boy,
For ones we love it’s hard to part.
Oh ! may these boys of Australia’s land
, For ever and ever to live happily;
To always celebrate this great day, and
That we will never forget Gallipolia.
.. . .F.C.F.: Middling verse. .. .Patientia Vinces: Not
well done. . . .JI.C.J.: Nothing there. .. .T.H.Y.: “Are
we worth it?” The verse isn’t... .J.P.: Hell’s a
place that may be worth exploring. But you haven't
got the idea of the job... .C.S.G.: Nothing in it. .. .
Sarg: Yarn’s not up. .. .C.G. (Durban) : Doesn’t thrill.
...,R. Car.: Rondeau wanted better handling....
H.F.: “Vengeance of a Scientist” wants two hand-
books and 17 scientific papers to explain how the
venge worked Linsay W.: Too crude L. 8.5.:
You don’t watch the column. Verse not up....
Chas. B.: No sense, and not worth while as nonsense.
... .El. L.: Not up... .H.F. (Yarra) : All out of tune.
... .Ex-Dugout-Ifing: No use here... .G.D.M.: No. ...
C.C.M.: Bad verse. .. .Chas.: There’s a sob in it, but
it’s not' a moving weep.... Riverina : Doesn’t move
us.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
M.J.H.: Lift joke about 30 years too late. Think
up something bright about aeroplanes. .. .F.L.: Don’t
want badly-drawn English policemen and costers.
... .T.P.W.: She’s a nice plump girl, but you haven’t
drawn her bodice straight. The bachelor suffers
from a lack of expression... .A.W.: Some promise,
but you can’t sell artistic lOU’s... .M.E.W.; It
didn’t raise a grin here... ,P.C.: Only makes us
groan... .H.J.L.: Won’t buy your mice.... J.8.G.:
It would be necessary to supply readers with micro-
scopes. ... J.M.W.: Too rough... .W.P.J.: No demand
for crooked people.
“D.F.”: Sydney's first steam-engine was
set going by John Dickson, who arrived in
October, 1813. Writing on April 28, 1814,
Gov. Macquarie states that he had given
Dickson “a most Convenient and Eligible
situation in the Town of Sydney, having a
run of fresh water through it, for him to
erect his Mills, Steam Engine and various
Machinery on.” Dickson used his engine
to run a flour-mill, and he seems to have
had a sawmill as well. In 1819 he put in a
tender for supplying at a lb. all the
flour needed for the Government stores in
N.S.W., but he failed to get the contract.
In April, 1815, Walter Lang, a settler at
the Derwent, was given permission to take to
Van Diemen’s Land the materials for a
steam-engine which he proposed to erect at
“Hobartston.” He also tried to get, on the
strength of the steam-engine, a grant of
3000 acres; but the deal did not come off.
It does not appear that he ever set up the
steam-engine. Twenty years later, though,
Hobart was far enough ahead to have one
built locally.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
•*
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless- Telegraphy.
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms. .
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding _ sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.— City 4246, 2,4, 6 Spring Street,
4«o. Syduey -
Sydney to England
via
the Allied Route,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu-—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, JUNE 4,
SONOMA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Telephone: City 2282. 44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Bunking, Public Companies. &c.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman) ; WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ; Hon. Sir ROBERT PIIILP,
K.C.M.G.; Hon. A. J. TIIYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Cilice: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. . . £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital . . .. . . 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. ~ .. .. 247,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since ISO 3 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq. ; W. 11. Hart, Esq.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - - - BRISBANE.
Brandies—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the Ea3t.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up . £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £145,000
Directors: MARK SHELDON, Esq., Chairman;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LLD. ; FRANK N.
YARWOOD, Esq. ; HERBERT R. LYSAGHT,
Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon. F.
JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
' Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Chief Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedie Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 139 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of Now Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up .. . . . . 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital . . . . . . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,345,702
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
MACDONALD,
HAMILTON 8 CO.
Managing Agents for
Australasian United Steam Navigation Cu„.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co. Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates Ltd.
Blackheath Collieries Limited.
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Shipping, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, 6th JUNE.
R.M.S. MAKURA, EARLY JULY.
The most beautiful Scenery in the World—the Canadian Rockies—is on the All-Red Route.
The Prairies, the Great Lakes, Chicago, Niagara Falls and New York can all be visited.
Through bookings to all Canadian, United States and European points.
Stop-overs on the Railways Arranged.
CALL OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS OF THIS ROUTE.
PASSENGERS CAN CHANGE AT HONOLULU INTO A DIRECT STEAMER FOR
SAN FRANCISCO.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ISLAND TOURS.
Now is the Time to Visit the PACIFIC ISLANDS.
DELIGHTFUL TOURS to
NORFOLK ISLAND and NEW HEBRIDES.
SOLOMON ISLANDS.
PAPUA and RABAUL.
Trips of Four, Five and Seven Weeks’ Duration.
BURNS, PHILP 8 CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Pulfl-up capital
Reserve Pund -
Reserve Liability
Directors:
£3,904,860
£3,025,000
£3,904,860
£10,834,720
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
F. B. S. Falkiner, Esq., M.H.R.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Bucldand, Esq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
* Auditors : S.°E. Laidley, Esq.; A. G. Milson, Esq. General Manager: Sir John Russell French, 1v.8.E.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Tlireadneedle Street, E.C.
336 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
HEAD OFFICE
&nk u 3ustralia
SYDNEY.
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain),
also London (2), and A.I.F. Camps in England.
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and SAVINGS BANK AGENCIES at 2776 Post Offices
throughout Australia, Papua, New Britain, Solomon Islands,
and The Pacific.
JAMES KELL, DENISON MILLER,
Deputy Governor 1919 Governor
SPECIAL FACILITIES FOR SAVING
are offered by this Bank —absolute security, liberal interest, and
the convenience of a Branch or Agency in almost every locality.
Deposits
Withdrawals
Interest
accepted from one shilling upwards.
payable on demand at the Branch where the account is
kept.
allowed at 3?4 per cent, per annum on every £ up to
£5OO.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales,
The STATE Saving's Institution.
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE BANK that PAYS 31% INTEREST on SAVINGS
Shlonlnr
Osaka ShosenKaisha
(O.S.K. Mercantile Steamship Co. Ltd.).
Direct Monthly Cargo Service
Manila, Hong Kong, Japan and
the East. Transhipment cargo
accepted for all Eastern ports,
Pacific Coast ports and Europe,
transhipping at Japan.
MADRAS MARU, sailing about May 30.
NANKING MARU, sailing middle July.
For particulars apply to
American Trading Company
of Australia,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
40 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
And at Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide.
Sydney Inter-State
Sub-Committee.
Intending passengers for other States
are requested to inquire at Quarantine
Department, Customs House, Sydney,
regarding necessary permits required
before sailing.
Permission to break journey at inter-
mediate Ports is suspended
Interstate Passenger
Sailings
(Circumstances Permitting).
FOR ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE.
' FOR HOBART.
Huddart Parker Ll^
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND. —Regular sail-
ings between Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand
ports and vice versa; particulars to be obtained on
application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA. —From Sydney to
Hobart and vice versa every three weeks. Between
Melbourne and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Coiilns Street, Melbourne; George Street, Sydney.
"THE North Coast Steam
■ Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
TW FED' RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY. COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 11s.; second-class rail and steerage on
steamer, £4 ss.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE. 261 GEORGE ST.. SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
Favorite Mail Route to Japan, with connections
at Japan to
EUROPE AND AMERICA.
Tours can be arranged to China, Japan, Korea,
by this Line.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN.
Via Brisbane, Townsville, Thursday
Island, Zamboanga, Manila, Hongkong,
Passengers must obtain from the Quarantine
Authorities permits to leave New South Wales at least
three davs before the steamer’s departure.
SPECIAL NOTICE. —All Passengers proceeding to
JAPAN must have their Passports vised bv the Con-
sul-General for Japan in accordance with the regula-
tions of the Japanese Government
Full particulars of Sailing Dates, Passage Money,
Freights, etc., apply
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LTD.,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.


Styp
m
COVER
THE
EARTH
The Mark of the
Perfect Paint:
m
By these letters and the “Cover the Earth”
trade-mark, which appear on every can, you
will readily identify
Sherwin-Williams Paint
Prepared.
“S-W-P” (Prepared) is a full-bodied, free-flowing paint
that covers about 1000 sq. ft. per gallon, and gives
effectual protection to every inch of the surface covered.
THE SHERWIN-WILLIAMS CO. (AUSTRALIA) LID.
Paint, Color and Varnish Makers,
63 PITT STREET SYDNEY.
Agents In all principal towns throughout Australia.
s
3=
ine
co
dm
s
The Return of the Australian Naval Flotilla.
The seas are free ,
The guns no longer roar.
Our Jack comes back
To “smoke his gun' ashore.
-
V\P£
Gets Top Fating for smoke -joy
Heave=to when you see the signal “GBD,”
And board for inspection !
Many popular shapes. All tobacconists.
k Ak
Dependable Guns
>e
OF STERLING VALUE. RIGID and RELIABLE.
WE HAVE AN UNRIVALLED SELECTION.
COMBINED
KNIFE, FORK & SPOON,
all metal, very strong:.
Price 2/- post free.
m
A
\r
"SUNOL" Pocket Lighters.
Better than Matches.
Price 2/- each, post free.
Harrington and Richardson’s
R.8.8.L. Gun, 16-, 20- or 28-gauge, top
lever, case-hardened frame, 26in. barrels, ooth choke;
weight about sJib Freight paid,
£.5/101-
US
s£i!2 Sunol Tobacco
Awarded 4 Gold Medals.
2oz. Sample 1/2, Post Free.
823. C. H. Crawford’s D.8.8.L. Gun,
12-gauge, top lever, double bolt, 30in. barrels, left
choke, pistol grip, walnut stock, scroll engraved, bar locks.
Greener cross-bolt, nitro proof; weight of 12-gauge about 7ilb, Freight paid,
£ll/11/-
“Koolah” Shaving Sticks
Delightful to Use. 7d. each, post free.
Owing: to market fluctuations,
prices here quoted are subject
to change without notice.
z:^ssssA
833. Winchester Automatic Repeating Shot-Gun,
1911 Model, 12-gauge, walnut stock, pistol grip, nickel-steel
barrel, 28in., full choke, take-down system, chambered for 2jin. shells.
Magazine holds 5 cartridges, rubber butt-plate. __ . m ,
Weight 7fib Freight paid,
POWDER
Just arrived large shipment of Gunpowder.
You are advised to make an early purchase.
AUSTRAL 3/9 lb.
F.F.F 3/9 lb.
DIAMOND GRAIN 5/- lb.
DUPONT’S SmoKeless for Guns 10/0 lb.
DUPONT’S SmoKeless for Rifles 11/9 lb.
E. C. SMOKELESS 11/9 lb.
PLEASE NOTE —Powder cannot be posted.
MINIMUM FREIGHT on any quantity
packed up to 281 b. is 10/= in N.S.W.
We Repair All Kinds of Guns and Rifles
826. Midland Gun Co.’s D.8.8.L.
Pigeon Gun, 12-gauge, top action, bar locks.
Greener cross-bolt, high-filed rib, 28- or 30-inch steel
barrels, both choke, D. & E. fore-end side clips, chambered for 2jin. cartridges,
beautifully engraved, weight about 7flb Freight paid,
£l4/14/-
,'J ■ l ‘
834. Remington Browning Automatic Repeating
Shot Gun, 12-gauge, • slide grip, steel barrels, take-down
system, magaziro hi Ids six cartridges ;
weight about 71b Freight paid.
£ll/U|
Harrington and
Richardson’s
5.8.8. L. Gun,
12-gauge,
top action, solid case-hardened locks,
grip, walnut stock ; weight about 6ilb.
ordinary Double-barrel Gun.
decarbonised steel barrel, 30in. pistol
Gun can be taken apart, same as an
82-
Auto-Ejcctor, 45/-
Postage—2/6 N.S.W.:
4/8 Inter-State.
ac
'immons /M
mjsnmum greatest
SPORTS OUTFITTERS-
71ND TOBACCONISTS
City Sports Depot
99 King St, also at
Newcastle l Brisbane


This Little Girl Keeps Away Coughs
LITTLE PIICEBE TUBB,
(from a photo).
and Colds with
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
SAFEGUARD THE CHILDREN.
TAKE NOTICE OF THEIR COLDS.
It is only a little cold, you say; still it often
means a lot of suffering for the little folk and
worry for mother, so be wise and get the best that
can be had. Dr. Sheldon's New Discovery is a
wonderful remedy for all Coughs, preventing Influ-
enza, Pneumonia and Bronchitis. It is the safe-
guard of many a home. See that your children
keep bright, healthy and rosy with the help of
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery.
Dear Sirs, —At two years of age my little girl
Phcebe suffered with an acute attack of croup.
I tried the usual remedies, and evidently they
did not get at the root of the ailment, because
the attack left Phoebe a severe cough, which
sometimes became chokingly croupy at night.
A friend of mine, in whose house I was stay-
ing with Phcebe, was awakened one night by
one of these frightening coughing seizures,
and she brought in to me a bottle of your
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery, and we gave
the almost choking child a dose of the mix-
ture The effect was so immediately beneficial
that I have kept Dr. Sheldon’s wonderful rem-
edy bv me ever since. I feel that if I had used
it at the first, instead of trying other so-called
curative medicines, Phcebe would not have
suffered so with her cough. I send you her
photograph, which will show you how well she
keeps now.
Hoping that my little note of appreciation
of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery may help
other mothers to rely on your good, simple,
soundly-healthful remedy.—l remain, yours
faithfully, (gg d .) OLIVE K, TUBB.
“shirlevPenkevil Street, Willoughby.
Dr. Sheldon’s Hew Discovery—The Mother’s Helper.
ScSSS. When Mother
-nin, the, «*«» £
ever. NEW DISCOVERY, 1/6 and 3/-
D«SH ELDON ’S^OUCHS
New Discovery \s, lds
BOSTOGK’S SHOE DRESSINGS.
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
A Shoe Dressing should be more than a polish. It should also
nourish the leather, keep it soft and pliable, and thus prevent
cracking.
The Brilliant Polish Bostock Shoe Dressing imparts, together
with its remarkable leather-preserving qualities, make its
regular use both pleasing and profitable.
COLORS : Black. Brown, Dark Brown, Ox Blood and White.
In Tins, Bottles and Tubes.
OBTAINABLE ANYWHERE.
BOSTOCK’S VIOLO POLISHES LTD., Sydney.
Onoto
THE SAFETY PEN—NEVER LEAKS.
Self-Filling 17/-. Valveless 12/6.
WE MANUFACTURE
COMPLETE GRINDING AND DRESSING PLANTS,
FEEDING AND MIXING PLANTS,
SELF-RAISING FLOUR COMPLETE PLANTS,
PACKING, FILLING, WEIGHING MACHINES,
GRAVITY CONVEYORS,
AND ALL LABOR SAVING MACHINERY.
AL^O
FARMERS’ SEED
( Wheat,\
\ Oats /
GRADING MACHINES
Chaff
and
Oust •
Straws
' Etc.
Oats. Drake.
Broken Grain
Oats
and
Barley
FOR HAND OR POWER
AUSTRALIAN MANUFACTURE
Will remove from wheat: —Cracked and
small grain, oats, wild oats, barley,
grass seeds, sand, chaff, drake, and all
other impurities. Clean, plump wheat
means—
HARDIER PLANTS.
Clean CLEAN PADDOCKS,
Wheat AND BIG YIELDS.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE.
MADE AND SOLD BY
THE SCHUMACHER MILL FURNISHING WORKS PTY. LTD.
PORT MELBOURNE. VICTORIA. (Please mention this £a£er)
“TvHAWING FOR PLEASURE AND
U starting May 15 in The Soldier.
now. It/- per year. 20 Loftus Street,
PROFIT”:
Subscribe
Sydney.
If any illustration appearing _ in 'j.uz
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
The Miser.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
f'PHEY stood and whispered
'I I heard their dismal, hateful brea. .
xheir feet were muffled on the floor
And rustled in the Room of Death.
They watched me lie and struggle there
Against the last eternal Cold
Thev waited for that glassy stare
1 That told them I had left my gold.
Thev listened with their greedy ears
TI Sd Sought Of all that wealth can .f.
They brought their sweet pretence of tear.
And waited for the Rich to die.
And each one clutched his sweating hands
And tried to call himself my friend,
And stood as one who understands
Each cough is nearer to The End.
I thought of how tjiey’d hunt my wealth,
And never find its hiding-place. ~
I watched them move their eyes with steaitn,
And laughed, and let them see my face.
And one of them with loathly guile
Laid shaking fingers on my head.
He said. “The dying always smile;
Another hour will find him dead.
And then they gathered round in prayer
While silently I rose and left
My grinning body lying there
Within its circle of bereft.
The laughing sun beat, in and shone
Upon the mouths that spoke no word.
“I’ve gone, you fools!” I shrieked. "I’ve
gone!”
But no one answered —no one heard.
I left them there to croak and weep
Around that corpse upon its bed —
A corpse that smiled within its sleep;
And then I went —for I was dead.
I wandered all around the earth
And left them in the room of Pain
Beside the dead that died with mirth
To know the quick had wept in vain.
N.S.W.
L. MAXWELL.
With All Faults,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
CAPTAIN THOMAS MISSION, master
of the Star of Samarai, waiting for
orders at Seattle, anchored until the
weeds grew on his ship and trailed in the
tideway like the hair of drowned women.
He and his officers went ashore not often ;
their pay was too low for dissipation,
although the smallness of it had made them
in matters of money as clever as rats in time
of famine.
I knew that the Star of Samarai waited,
not for freight, but for sale, and that Shigoku
and Co., of Yokohama, were after her. But
she wasn’t sold when last I saw her master,
and the story was told to me by Billy
Hauberk, who was given a passage to Yoko-
hama when she was sold, and was the only
honest man working on the ship, or owning
it. At least, he says that. Billy Hauberk is
a master himself —but out of a job through
temporarily losing his ticket by permanently
finding a reef.
We sat in Bombay flirtation chairs on the
balcony of the Queen’s at Townsville —very
comfortably, with the leg-rests well extended,
the pipes drawing well, and the big whisky-
pegs standing by in glasses, so thin and with
ice so fragile that the creak of a chair made
a musical tinkling of ice against the rim;
Magnetic Island the blue ghost of a blur in
the starshine, and the red lights on the
breakwater purpling in the violet haze. And
Billy Hauberk talked.
“Y’ know the Star of Samarai? Rattle-
trap engines; weary boilers; carried jute,
niggers and derelicts —and should have made
a good sale by sinking at her anchors at
Seattle. Y’ know the owners; head office in
Liverpool to disguise Welsh navigation and
wowser ownership.
“Tom Mission’s her skipper, and although
he talks with that Oxford and Cam-
bridge accent tuat makes him sound like a
curate who’s half-sister to a suffragette, he’s
the most able-bodied cumshaw merchant,
between Durban and Vladivostok. If he
puts a coat of paint on her there’s a bit for
him in the paint, as long as she isn’t in a
home port; and if there’s a new towel bought
for the bathroom Tommy Mission cuts a bit
off the fringe for agency charges. She
stripped her propeller at Kobe, and Tommy
pulled a commission out of the dockyard;
and when she broke her tail-shaft near
Hongkong there was a Chow engineer cough-
ing up a bit for Tommy at Kowloon. He
chewed commission out of coal and water,
and on the beef and every banana in the
ship; but whenever she had a passenger he’d
fill that passenger with cigars—which was
decent, although they were given him for
nothing. The dhoby man for the ship did
the captain's white suits for nix, and pipe-
clayed the shoes he hadn’t paid for; and so,
with one thing and another, including pier-
head jumps from ports he was unlikely to
see again, Tommy managed to make ends
“He couldn’t have done that if he’d been
in a regular trade; because people would
have got tired of him, and creditors would
have caught him second time round. But he
practically never touched the same port twice
running, inside the Statute of Limitations.
It was down to Australia with rice; to
Bombay with horses; over to ’Frisco with
Indian" goods; to the Philippines with
machinery and notions; to New York or
London or Liverpool with sugar, copra,
cigars, sapan wood and hangmen’s goods.
Tommy Mission didn’t think that carrying
Manila rope was personal either. He was
very hard-cased, was Tommy.
“His owners made him so. His screw was
£24 a month ; and they expected seamanship,
responsibility, honesty and the virtues of an
archangel for the eightpence an hour they
paid him; and between whiles they drew his
attention to the fact that many tramp-
owners make the master buy his own charts,
but that they didn’t, because they were
Christians. Of course, they could have got
plenty o’ young fellows with captain s tickets
to take the job at less. You know pride of
the first command, and dam-fool romances o£
the sea; outside of hell being fine when
you’re twenty-five or so.
“When hard luck brought Tommy Mission
up to Liverpool to see his owners, he went
like a man going to execution —and he didn t
feel any better because there was enough
hemp in the after-hold to hang a million
harder cases than Tommy. First day they
were very nio;e to him ; glad to see him back
from the perils of the sea, and all that
sort of rot, the only unsafe place tor
Tommy in the world being in Ins owners
office. By the second day they were cooling
off, and by the third day they’d been through
his disbursement sheets, and every time they
read ’em over their yelps of agony were
louder.
“The boss owner would say to him, moving
about as if his cnair was made of barb-wire:
‘Captain Mission, these mess-accounts on
the disbursement sheets are ruinous ruin-
ous! Why, I see here that the men get a
chop, and more; and a potato —some of them
more than two.’ . , . , ,
“ ‘Board of trade, sir. Board of trade,
says Tommy. , ,
“ ‘But, captain, why not one chop and one
potato?’ ,
“ ‘They must be —ah —fed to work.
“ ‘And I’ve been taking the average of
eggs consumed by engineers. It works out at
one egg and a fraction per diem.’
“ ‘I got to feed the blighters —er —gentle-
men,’ says Tommy.
“ ‘And d’ye know, captain, that the engi-
neers’ mess had pickles?’
“ ‘The bli —engine-room staff —ah —lead a
fairly monotonous life, and they say they
ah —can’t keep awake without —-ah—pickles
—so endangering the safety of the ship!
“ ‘Nonsense, captain ! Nonsense ! It mast
not be repeated! Why, I don t permit
pickles on my own table except-—perhaps—-a
walnut for each person with Monday s cold
joint. See that it doesn’t happen again,
captain.’
“‘Very good, sir,’ says Tommy, and goes,
out swearing to himself, and buys a case of
pickles first port, and gorges the engineers
mess on ’em. But the meanness made mm
get revenges in other ways—ways more pro-
fitable to himself. Meanness like that stifles
conscience, and throws remorse overboard.
Tommy Mission would pull up his pick, and
go to" sea, prepared to wipe the owners
eye every time he got a chance. He dreamed
commission, and all his waking thoughts were
eumshaw; and he got as expert as a church-
rat at getting things for nothing ; and at
nosing out new ways for safe bribery and
tracking profitable corruption he was cleverer
than a New Jersey senator. He could beat
commission out of everything but an Angli-
can Synod and a sewing-bee; and the only
people he didn’t exact tribute from were the
widow and the fatherless, because they never
have any money; or if they do a public
trustee company guards it jealously against
all the thieves who haven’t a certificate of
joint-stock incorporation.
“And, as I tell you, he could get his dues
out of painting, docking, coaling, providormg
passengers, parcels, exchange, flotsam and
jetsam, beachcombing, barratry, simony, the
king’s enemies, and the act of God. Every
time he dropped the pick he opened a new
account; and he didn’t lift the pick until
he'd been paid his tribute —cash or kind,
money, clothes, wine, washing, jewellery or
cigars. God sent his owners on earth to
make the world look mean, and He made
Tommy Mission as a counter-irritant, and to
prevent owners becoming too rich.
“So things go on until they’re where you
saw ’em at Seattle eighteen months ago, with
weeds as long as the hair of a girl at
Mariquina. That’s where her last run had
been —hemp from Pasig River; and then no
freights going, and the owners throwing fits
by cable while she lay at Seattle growing
vegetables on her bottom. Meantime Tommy
Mission and his deputy-bribees and assistant-
secret-commissioners are hauled to blocks.
They can’t make any money, and of course
they’d saved none, not being mean enough to
think of a cold day coining in the tropics.
Anyhow, what comes by the wind goes by
the water; and that’s the way theirs went —
water with Scotch in it, and Gage-road, and
the little house in Samnaloc, and short-
legged Jap girls pretending to dance the
Balitao. And they’re so flat broke they’d
take down a Capuchin monk for all the socks
he has, which aren’t any. There they are—
poor as church mice, miserable as a Jew in
Hell without his cash-box, and watching the
long weeds on her bottom swing to the tide,
some of them trailing as long as a pennant.
You live on an anchored ship for months,
with nothing to do but look overboard and
see the weeds grow and the tides change;
and by-and-bye you’ll be as mad an’ des-
perate as they were.
“Just when they’re about giving up all
hope, and thinking about eating all the
pickles at a sitting to spite the mean cuss
who’s throwing fits by cablegram, the chance
comes. A shipping agent at Seattle says he’s
got a client in Yokohama who wants to buy
a ship like the Star of Samarai. • Tommy
Mission won’t put the agent wise to his
owners, because he thinks he might get a bit
of eumshaw out of the sale; and the agent,
after backing and filling for a week, came
over with the blood-money; and Tommy puts
the agent alongside the owners, and they got
to grips. The long and the short of it is that
the Star of Samarai is sold to Shigoku and
Co. of Yokohama, and at Yokohama she is
to be delivered. The owner doesn’t know
whether he’ll clean her up before she starts,
or try to save the dock-money and lose it on
the coal-bill. Tommy doesn’t care much,
because his eumshaw on the dock charges
wouldn’t be so much bigger than his cum-
shaw on the extra coal; so at last they com-
promise. They clean her up as well as they
can without dockinv. and the owner throws
more fits by cable when he hears the price of
the coal; and so at long last the Star of
Samarai hauls its pick out of the mud —
where it thought it was going to stay for
keeps—and pushes out westerly to the Bund
and the Hotel Nectarine.
“While they’re on that run, Captain
Tommy’s that busy scheming you can hear
him think. She was in light-ballast trim.
(Continued on next page.)


H
m
n
A
f,
i
V/
Yj
S
I
I
i
I
f
i
c
%
m4w/////
05!
7
0
f
ft
4
0,
l
k
0
0
%
s
i
S'
'0 7
H
fl
'u
m
NEED ZAM-BUK EVERY DAY
OUTDOOR workers, who brave all weathers in rough work,
generally have skin trouble of one kind or another.
Perhaps the skin gets hard, and cracks most painfully and
dangerously; cr it may be that the cold or dirt gets into some
trivial injury, inflammation and disease almost certainly
f jllowing. Cold=sores round the mouth and nostrils are also common
just now, and so are chapped hands,chilblains,chafingof the face, etc.
Zam-Buk is equally soothing, healing and curative for all such conditions of the skin, and
is consequently a real boon. This pure and powerful balm takes.the “smart” out, kills pain,
“cools” inflammation and allays itching. Continued use of Zam-Buk ensures perfect healing
with new, healthy skin, and “tones up” the tissue to resist cold and disease. Every outdoor
worker should carry a pot in his pocket.
Beware of
Substitution
When you ask for Zam-Buk
Healing Balm, see that you
get it. Do not he put off with
something which is claimed by
your trader as “just as good,”
because it returns him more
profit. There is NOTHING
“just as good” as the proved,
reliable, ever-ready Zam-Buk.
ZAM-BUK is remarkably effective
for the treatment of eczema, run-
ning sores, bad legs, ringworm,
scalp sores, cuts, bums, scalds,
sprains, rheumatism, poisoned
wounds, ulcers, sore hands, etc.
ZAM-BUK is obtainable of all
Chemists and Stores at 1/6 and
3/6 per pot, or post free from C.
E. FULFORD (Aust.), Ltd., 39
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BUSHMAN’S CUTS AND WOUNDS.
Mr. John Brown, 17 Dix Street, Chippendale, Sydney, writes:—“During mv
work in the country at fencing, clearing land and scrub-cutting I have met
with many accidents from axe or knife, some of which have been very
severe. But I always had Zam-Buk in the camp for emergencies, and have
found it splendid. My hands would get terribly knocked about, but Zam-Buk
always healed them in a very rapid manner.
“I have found Zam-Buk absolutely necessary in my bush life, where it is
so far removed from any chance of medical attention.”
BUILDER’S SLICED FINGER.
Mrs. E. Fisher, of 845 Street, West Perth, W.A., says:—“My
husband is a bricklayer, and while trimming: a brick with a trowel he sliced
his finger open. The flesh was laid bare to the bone. Some lime got into the
wound, which inflamed and festered in an alarming manner. Zam-Buk was
applied, and after a fortnight’s treatment the cut was completely healed, all
inflammation being drawn out, and he was able to use his hand.”
EVERY
HOME NEEDS ZAM-BUR.
EVER READY—EVER
A MINER’S
PRAISE.
“Whilst following my occupation
at the Great Cobar Mine,” says Mr.
.T. Farnsworth, of Becker Street,
Cobar, N.S.W., “I find nothing to
equal Zam-Buk for the cuts and
bruises I am constantly receiving.
No matter how bad the cuts and
bruises —and I sometimes get soma
nasty ones —Zam-Buk takes away
the pain almost instantlv, and in
a day or so the wounds disappear.”
and the ironmongery she called her engines
rattled and raced and made Hell’s delight.
The day before she gets to Yokohama
he’s got ‘-he plan of campaign. The otters
are making the best of it —the end of the job
and damn little money ; but enough to make
’em want to get a berth quick. And so she
comes to Yokohama, and is anchored late in
the afternoon—and she could have been
there by eleven o’clock, but Captain Tommy
had slowed her down at daylight.
“ ‘What for?’ asks the mate.
“ ‘Save coal,’ says Tommy.
“The mate doesn’t see how that matters,
as the ship is to be handed over- to Shigoku
with all faults, just as she is, without one
flea. Coal in her, or no; but just as she is
when they accept her. Yet he sees that
Captain Tommy has a plan, and hope springs
eternal in the Roman beast. So he passes
the word to the second mate, and tells him
to keep his lights burning brightly and be a
careful navigator of all these shoals and
back-washes of cumshaw and corruption.
“At about half-past three he drops the pick,
and at four o’clock lie’s back from shore
with a pretty little Jap in European rig who’s
representing Shigoku and Co. I’m at the
rail, looking down from me little house that
I’m to be evicted from by Shigoku, and sud-
denly I hear Captain Tommy say to the
chap as if he’d known him for years:
■ “ ‘lki,’ he says, ‘you catch ship now—take
delivery and all that, and if it’s any use to
you, it being too late now to send a new
crew aboard to-day, my lads ’ll stand by till
to-morrow.’
“‘I see,’ says Iki. ‘Take of delivery now,
and you are on the ship for us all of the
night.’
“ ‘That’s it—save you sending a new crew
till to-morrow.’
“ ‘You ask no money for stay aboard?’
“ ‘Not a sen. Just you take formal de-
livery, and we’ll have a whisky over it in
my cabin.’
“Iki is flatte-ed all the way at this splendid
Britisher wit! the Oxford and Cambridge
manner. He goes to Tommy’s cabin and
has a whisky—not one, either. You know
they call the Jap a hard-headed cove ; but it’s
a lot like British thoroughness and Ameri-
can hustle and French emotionalism—tre-
mendously exaggerated. A Jap on the
water front, anyhow, thinks life is a joke.
He can’t buy a shipment of coal or sell a
freight without a spree. He carries his
booze cheerfully; and if he once sees a man
quarrelsome in his cups he avoids that chap
—except in the way of profits.
“Well, Captain Tommy had already half
captured Iki by his condescension, and his
offer to guard that ship for a night for
nothing, and the whisky and the cheerful
drunkenness of Iki fixed the lot. Tommy
carried his liquor like a bronze Buddha.
The only effect it had was to make him
more polite, and speak more beautiful Eng-
lish than he'd ever heard at the Oxford and
Cam hr idee boat-race. He pours out the
whisky for Iki; and he tells Iki how clever
a business man Iki is, and Iki takes another
drink, and goes one better in compliments
than the white man. They open the last
box of cigars and smoke there till all’s blue;
and at 6 o’clock Iki tumbles into his boat
and calls the captain his dear friend, and
tells him he must come to a geisha party to-
morrow ; and so goes ashore leaving the
ship, taken delivery of, signed, and sealed,
and all correct.
“Then Captain Tommy started business at
the old stand. He pulled out of the Star
of Samarai the napery and the cutlery, the
glassware and the copper-pots in the galley,
the butcher’s steelyards, his own cabin fit-
ting# and the cushions of the saloon tran-
soms. Wherever brass showed up, or nickel
or electro-plate, he scored. Damask and
other textile fabrics were all one to him,
and if he’d seen a primrose by the river’s
brim it wouldn’t have been a primrose—he’d
have called it loot. If water had been sale-
able he’d have looted the river too. By 9
o’clock he had three boatloads of loot, and
he smuggled it ashore, and came back drunk
and happy about an hour off daylight, with
nine hundred yen in his kick, having sold it
to a junk-shop at a ruinous sacrifice, and
regardless of cost.
“Well, you know if the office-boy knows
the accountant is lifting the boss’s money to
put on a sure thing with the ponies, that
office-boy will pinch the petty cash. As
soon as Captain Tommy goes ashore the
first-officer gets to his with a boatload, and
is off the ship by half-past 10. You can
still hear the oars in the rowlocks when the
second and third start looting, and the boats
the captain took come back to help them.
They get a boatload of cabin stuff —wire-
mattresses and curtain bars and rings, nickel
taps and fittings; and whenever a bit of
metal saw them first it hid itself. And they
eo ashore to look for a junk-shop about
half-past 11. %
“The engineers are up to their dodges,
too—pinching spanners and hammers and
loading the quarter-boat on the port side.
They take any fittings they can, though they
have respect for the engines, which limits
their bushranging; but the propeller is
outside the ship and they have no respect for
it at all—only a grouch, because it’s under
water and they can’t sell it. They can’t
get at the funnel either ; and the capstan is
a fixture, and a winch takes time to change
its address. They wander about the ship
as mad as hatters because the other thieves
haven’t left them anything to steal. In the
end the second engineer comes to the chain
locker, and he gets a brilliant idea.
“ ‘Look here, chief,’ he says to the first
steam-peddler. ‘How many fathom o’ chain
in one o’ these cables?’
“ ‘Hundred and twenty,’ says the chief,
cocking his eye at the cables like a fowl
getting the measure of a grain o’ corn.
“ ‘Hundred and twenty fathom on the port
s;de’s enough,’ says the second; ‘and that
’d give us a hundred fathom on the starb’d
side.’
“I forgot to tell you they’d dropped the
port anchor that afternoon.
“ ‘Good enough,’ says the chief. ‘Open
two links, pinch a hundred fathom o’ chain,
and who’s to tell while the anchor’s peaked
how much cable’s in the locker?’
“Well! They did. They shackled the
anchor, opened a link, subtracted a hundred
fathom o’ chain, linked up again, and cast
off the shackle. They get it to the boat
when the third sings out from the fo’c’s’le
head. He’s looking over the side, and he
sees the starb’d anchor, fastened up against
the hawsehole, and looking superfluous.
“ ‘See here, chief,’ he says. ‘They got two
patent anchors, and one’s perfectly sufficient
for a Jap. They won’t use it,’ he says.
‘Let’s pinch it.’
“ ‘They’d miss it as soon as they got
aboard,’ says the chief. Lord knows why
he thought other things wouldn’t be missed.
By this time the ship looked more like the
Ruins of Pompeii than the Star of Samarai.
“ ‘How can they miss it?” said the third,
‘if we get the carpenter to make a wooden
one, and paint it. They mightn’t use it
for a year.’
“The chief and the second gave three
cheers. They pinched the anchor, and set
the carpenter making another, promising
him 25 yen out of the junk; and they went
ashore at about 1 o’clock in the morning,
and about two inches of freeboard was all
they had. They went to a new junk-shop, so
the stuff was well distributed, and some-
where about daylight they ran into one
another in an all-night saloon, off Main.
The engineers had the bos’n with them,
and they meet him in the all-night joint,
and he’s .well over the Plimsoll.
“ ‘Why didn’t you stay with the boat?’ the
chief said to him. ‘Somebody might shake
it.’
“ ‘No fear o’ that,’ says the bos’n. ‘I
see there was nothing left for me, so I’ve
pinched the boat and sold it.’
“Well, they got aboard a little after day-
light and they find Captain Tommy aboard,
raving in his worst Oxford and Cambridge
manner.
“ ‘Who’s destroyed my beautiful ship?’ he
said. ‘Where are the men who’ve looted the
Star?’
“The chief engineer is well loaded, and he
looks him in the eye and says: ‘The scoun-
drels went ashore just after you took your
three boatloads to the junk-shop.’
“Then Tommy laughs—and tells them to
get their gear together, as the ship is already
delivered. They’re only there as a favor to
the new owners; and incidentally he re-
marked that there’d be the devil of a row. The
bos’n was glad he had not missed the port
quarter boat yet, and the engineers looked
hard at him to see if he grieved over the
loss of the starb’d anchor, but he didn’t know
it—the imitation was so lifelike. There it
was—warship grey, with a bit of painted
rust showing cunningly on the flukes—the
most artistic forgery since William Henry
Ireland wrote Shakspeare.
“All the hands got their dunnage together,
and I was glad I wasn’t in the looting—
though it looked safe enough, even then.
About 9 o’clock comes a chief clerk of
Shigoku’s, and Captain Tommy seemed a bit
relieved when he found this was Shigoku’s
first ship, and that the chief clerk didn’t
know a steamer from, a cumquat. He rati-
fied the delivery taken by Iki and produced
the bank receipt for the payment of the
purchase money to the mean old cuss in
Liverpool; and then he told his captain and
crew to take charge. After a whisky the
ship’s old company, including me. put our-
selves in shore-boats, and you bet we were
mighty glad to hit that dock. We left the
most cock-eyed, incomplete thing in the way
of ships you ever saw, broken-winged on the
port side by the missing boat, and the star-
board anchor looking down to see if the
water was too deep to wade in.
“There was steam in her, and Shigoku’s
new master was as proud as a Pyrmont billy-
goat and in a big hurry to get a move on.
They were moving when Captain Tommy and
the mates and engineers and me ’riekshawed
round the Bund to the Grand Hotel. After
a peg we came out on the water-front, and
there’s the Star of Samarai with the white
flag with the cherry-plum on it floating from
the stern flagstaff; and she’s settling down
to six knots.
“ ‘He won’t clear that shoal,’ says Captain
Tommy. Apparently the Jap master thought
the same. He gave an order. We heard the
chain rattle and then—that damned starb’d
anchor floated —floated till the weight of the
chain pulled it under.
“Shigoku and Co. got her off the shoal at
high water, and we all cleared out as soon
as we could find a railway.”
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
The Singing Shepherdess.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sister earth and brother sea,
Dancing weed and laughing tree —
All the world is melody !
Airs are full of light and wings,
Bell to bell the blossom swings;
For my love, my true-love, sings.
She is fair and very wise.
In the valor of her eyes
Holy 'purpose dreaming lies.
Music with a long caress
Fondles the white loveliness
Of my singing shepherdess.
Down the scarp and hillside creep,
To the thoughtful waters deep,
All her words, like happy sheep.
They shall drink and they shall climb
Through the clover and the thyme,
Clashing little bells of rhyme.
Sister earth and brother sky,
You shall hear the song go by
To the dappled meadows high.
Woodland myrrh and magic spice—
All the world makes sacrifice
At the gate of Paradise !
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.


fr%
• - ,v
PM f »!
1
alB Hi
WEST! NGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD..
Queensland Agents-HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington
Vlotorlan Office—B9 Queen Street, Melbourne,
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
Rare you
UPTU R
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
I'his is something ENTIRELY NEW: it is,
THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
IET INVENTED. It does awav altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL..
in every instance. The price is within the
all< Carl you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY.
FROM THE FTRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE'
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vie.
Healthy Liver
Healthy Life
Your liver—healthy or clogged, active or
sluggish—makes all the difference between
vigorous, cheerful life and low spirits and failure.
Banish headache, indiges-
tion, biliousness and ner-
vousness and clear up
sallow, blotchy, pimply
skin with the tried
family medicine.
Carter’s
Little
Liver
Pills.
M
mm
ITTLC
IVER
PILLS.
Purely vegetable.
Small Pill—Small Dose—Small Price,
GENUINE must bear signature
WRIGLEYS
The Greatest Name
In Goody-Land
<r
mGCEYSI fckvc
THE
PERFECT
GUM
/asts
JTiVWi
si®
m.
m
m
m
m
CHEWING GUM
m
m
Made by
Wm. Wrigtey Jr. Co. Prop. Ltd.
Rosebery, Sydney, N.S.W.
Hie Flavour Lasts
SEALED
TIGHT
KEPT
BIGHT
6 big bars
in each
packet
for 3d.
LET ME EXPLAIN!
beechams Pills
WILL KEEP YOU IN THE PINK.
'•v.vXv.v
•V.V.
•:vXvXX.v.
t
V.V.
vvvv
v£vv££
V.V/
V.V
2
ri
M
Your Winter Bath Comfort.
DON’T go through another winter without a Bath Heater. Have
absolute Bath Comfort —-and have it at the most economical
cost by installing HANKS’ CHIP BATH HEATER for
Country and City Homes.
DANKS’ CHIP BATH HEATER
is the last word in rapid heating at infinitesimal cost of fuel. It is
constructed on scientific principles, whereby the heat is properly and
quickly applied with the least possible waste.
It is not necessary to have gas in the house. The only fuel
needed is a few chips, or small pieces of deal or old paper, and you
have abundance of hot water in a moment for the bath or for other
household purposes. Think what a wonderful convenience this
would be to you.
Now is the time to install this splendid Heater —inquire to-day.
Price only £2/17/6.
Hot Shower Attachment—£l/5/- extra.
giiimmiiut Q t
1 JOHN
cuiiiiiimmiitim
iniMKiiimmo
&50N 1
itmiii mulling
324 Pitt Street (near Liverpool Street), Sydney,
and 391 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Just
US
tills'—


MANGROVrr
LEATHER
LTI
Eliminates Waste Power
by gripping the pulleys and keeping the
machinery going full time. Strong, durable
and flexible, it is a profit earner because it
is a power saver. Ask us to help you with
your transmission problems.
Mangrovite Belting Ltd.
(Charles Ludowici, Managing Director),
49 Wynyard Square (near C.P 0.), Sydney, N.S.W
Western Australia: Cibbs, Bright &Co Perth
S’th Australia: John Reid & Sons Ltd., Adelaide
Kent Street,
Sydney.
The Eagle 8 Globe Steel Co. Ltd., 379
264 ILatrobe Street, Melbourne; Ivalgoorlie and Fremantle, W.A.
Charles Atkins & Co., Adelaide. Paul & Gray l>td., Newcastle.
John Keid & Nephews, Brisbane.
KNIVES FOR
WOODWORKING Machines
- - Mwm^wwEm
~fll
£ > , * K STErac=
froi^our'^wn A ma T terial TJSEL ' CUTTING with Iron »> a < ie " > our order
rt “ “ *«*»», thickness, length and width of slots;
necessary” Fl * Cd HeadS ° r Movable Bolts. If Fixed Heads Template absolutely
The Belt that is Sold on Service—
Not by the Yard.
That means service to the men who work
with them—no stretch—no crooked running.
It means th,at one man can turn out just
as much work as the man beside him. It
means that he can “go the limit” and get
first pay for his earning capacity.
Remember the name—
Dick’s Balata Belting
(The Origrina.l and Genuine).
The Belting that guarantees least power waste.
Particulars from—
JAMES' HARD IE & CO. LTD.,
“Asbestos House,’’
Cor. Wynyard & York Sts., SYDNEY.
Phone 8456 (4 lines).
581-3 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
30 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Newcastle Agents—Paul & Cray Ltd.
Brisbane Agents—Queensland Machinery Co
Albert Street.
REFRIGERATING AND
ICE-MAKING MACHINERY.
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNING —which is pertinent to the times
•—their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions they can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.” Their strong-
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason .for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
We study vour requirements and design the lavout of vour
plant, not only to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service.
All
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR LTD.,
Alliance Building, 97 Pitt Street, Sydney.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth; and Auckland, N.Z.
&
L.A. Rowboat Motors
MAGNETO TYPE.
Horse-power 2; Bore of Cylinder 2 5-8
inches; Stroke of Piston 2}£ inches;
Weight 621 b.
A light, durable motor, made expressly for attach-
ing to ftshing-boats, pleasure-boats, oanoes, etc.
Develops a speed from 6 to 8 miles per hour.
Special price, packed and delivered Free
on Boat, or Bails, £25.
Correspondence invited.
Chandler Pty. Ltd.,
ironmongers and
Hardware Merchants,
Brunswick Street, Fitzroy
PUMPS-Good Pumps Only
ESS
We manufacture what is probably the most extensive and
varied line of Pumps listed by any Australian Manufacturer, and
can at the present time deliver all Standard Heavy Lines listed
We illustrate Heavy Side Bolt or Well Pumps. These are made
with valves as shown, ball valves or special valves to any specifi-
catiqji; they are supplied in all sizes, and are regularly listed
from ljin. to Bin. in diameter, by any stroke required. Other Pumps
manufactured include:—
BORE PUMPS, all sizes and strokes, any specification.
DOWNING’S Patent FOOLPROOF Artesian Deep Well
Cylinders.
BALL Valve ARTESIAN DEEP IVELL Cylinders.
PUMP CATALOGUE ON REQUEST.
CONTRACT WORK —Send Specifications
ALDERDICE ltd., Warrnambool
TDDOR ACCUMULATORS,
ALL TYPES
ALL SIZES
FOR.
Town Lighting', Country House Lighting', etc.
THE TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.
(Australasian Office)—
BOX: P.O. 2550. Cttlwwlla Chambers,
TELEPHONE: CITY 8931. CASTLEREAGH STREET SYDNEY.
A complete Electric Light Power
Plant, suitable for Suburban and
Country Houses, Stations, Stores
Hospitals, Schools of Arts, etc.
m
!-*/ .
Runs on
Kerosene
Safe.
Reliable
One Gallon of Kerosene ,LF
will light 32 Lamps for hours .
FULL PARTICULARS FROM SOLE AGENTS
N.S.W. & Victoria: WARBURTON, FRANKI LTD.,
309 Kent Street, Sydney; 380 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: SMELLIE & CO. LTD., Brisbane.
Write for Special Booklet to
“Some are and must be greater
than tl\e rest* said Alexander Pope.
Experienced sheepmen know the Lister Shearing Machine is greater than the rest. Lister Shearing
Machines are linked up with the wonderful development of sheep shearing to the high efficiency which
it reaches to-day. Lister Shearing Machines bristle with exclusive features. The Lister Handpiece
iSSw 1S m,°' v mi L e 1 s ahead with the introduction of LISTER SELF LEVEL-
LING TAPER CROWN PLATE. This, with the Adjustable Lid Rush, removes wear and trouble from
Handpieces absolutely.
chief Agents: Dangar, Gedye & Co« Ltd.
9-13 Young Street, Circular Quay, SYDNEY.
Townsville (North Queensland) ; Mitchell & Co.
jrcy. juta.y west
</5t
Ustf
J
LEACHING OF LOW-GRADE ORES.
The Counter Current Decantation System with “ Dorr” Hachinery is
giving remarkable results in all parts of the world, and has
revolutionised the treatment of low=grade propositions which could
not be handled by any other system.
We are the sole agents for the Dorr Co. in Australasia, and we
manufacture all machinery required. Our files and special know=
ledge will be placed at the disposal of clients.
Correspondence invited from metallurgists and mine managers
interested.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD. , Mining 8 Electrical Engineers, 550 George Street, Sydney.
DORR THICKENER ,
