

The Whisky of Discretion
R. ». WATKINS & 00.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOB— ,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
N S W- MONT de PIETE D & I C9T
74> St*., 74. Sydney.
-ADVANCES -
ON ALL CLASSES
OF SECURITY
WITHOUT POSSESSION
215-17Swanston St.jlelb.. 40 Adelaide St, Brisbane.
29 King St.Hev/castle. l97*Castlereaqh St, & 159 George St,West, Sydney. __
CAPITAL £200.000 ‘Phone City 932s .
Joseph W.Hill, Acting General Manager.
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not be laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete D. and I. Co. Ltd.”
Improved BIG CHIEF
Oil Engines.
m)
Shoulders
above ail
others.
Sizes:
PA h.p,
to 8 h.p.
Stationary
and
Portable.
Order One TO-DAY.
CASH OR EASY TERMS.
B. L. Scrutton 8 Co. Ltd.,
Ml CLARENCE STREET. SYDNEY.
iporitArgue^
9
PPLE
a
S'
NOTHINO
to Arguc
About!"
£
[ Vs s Bh c °
Are the Best
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organa.
HA N S E NS
Junket
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acta
most beneficially when taken daily after
me'als.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals*
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
RUSTPROOF YOtJR ROOF
For iron roofs and all metal surfaces Pabco Paint commends itself to
discriminating users.
Pabco paint inhibits rust. The degree of prevention of corrosion by the use of
any paint depends on whether the pigment inhibits or stimulates corrosion.
Accuracy in manufacture insures satisfaction with Pabco.
%
Full particulars mailed post free.
The Paraffine Companies Inc. (F, M. Prince., Australasian Manager), Challis House, Sydney.
Baa
i
■■■mhe
1
lISI'
I
Mil!
*
vvyyv
E CLYDE
_
L
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND
ENGINEERS.
GRANVILLE,
N.S.W.
Railway Rolling Stock of all Descriptions* Road Metal and Farm Waggons. Portable Steam Engines.
Sugar Mill Machinery. Heavy Iron & Malleable Castings. Cast-iron Porcelain-Enamelled Baths,Sinks, etc.
Srfrfliur
Q
Head Office,
SYDNEY.
MACHINERY.
Modern Elevating and Conveying Machinery
TO SUIT ALL PURPOSES.
PLANS AND ESTIMATES PREPARED.
QUEENSLAND ENQUIRIES: The AUSTRALIAN MACHINERY CO
LTD., 218-220 Mary Street, BRISBANE.
“T.Y.R”
PREMIER.”
, WHITWORTH
HIGH-SPEED DRILLS.
HIGH-SPEED STEEL.
Sole Australian Representatives s
Gilbert Lodge S Co. Ltd.,
115 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
506 Little
Inter-State Stocking Agents:
A. SCOTT & CO., 164 Edward Street, Brisbane.
PARSONS & ROBERTSON, Etd., Worands Bit
CHAS. ATKINS & CO. (W.A.),
Grenfell Street,
Perth.
Adelaide.
Manufactured by Sir W. G. ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH & CO. LTD., Manchester, England
TOOTH PASTE
Used Every Day
Prevents Decay*
The Bulletin
Vol. 40.—N0. 2076.
Thursday, November 27, 1919.
PRICE 6dL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Cheerful
Month!vr
Cludaie,
CONDUCTED BY PHILLIP L. HARRIS. FORMER EDITOR OF 'AUSSIE.'* THE
T AUSTRALIAN SOLDIERS’ MAGAZINE. PRINTED AT THE FRONT.
’Ths
Australian,
Soldier^
Madazin®
THE OLD “AUSSIE.”
Aussie is about to get into civvies. Born and
bred on the battlefield, he has served as a Supply
Unit of cheerfulness and interest to the Digger in
the trenches. He reflected the Spirit of the Digger:
his humor, his wit, his thought, his life. He acted
as a laughter-bearer from Digger to Digger.
AND THE NEW.
That sphere of usefulness, has passed. The Digger
is now a civilian. And
so, in order to continue
to be a cobber to his
old cobbers, Aussie,
too, is about to don
civvie garb and carry
on.
In his new rdle he
wishes to convey to the
civvy Aussie that spirit
of cheerfulness and pat-
riotism which character-'
ised the Digger Aussie ;
to be as entertaining" and
useful to the civilian as
he was to the Digger;
to reflect the national
life and humor of the
Aussie nation as he re-
flected the military life -
and humor of the Aussie
Army.
Aussie will retain cer-
tain of the most popular
characteristics of his
former life, but he will
be improved in many
ways. Those who knew him as a child of the battle-
field will find that he has groVvn into full arid virile
manhood. Those who did not know him over there
will find him a cheerful storyteller, a good humorist,
a clever artist, an instructive entertainer—in short,
an interesting and happy companion, and one whom
you will be proud to invite into your home.
HOW HE WILL APPEAL TO DIGGERS.
The ambition of the conductor of Aussie is to
show his appreciation of the support and encourage-
ment given him by his cobbers in France by making
the journalistic offspring of the Aussie Army the
best production in Australia from every standpoint—
humor, literary, artistic and typographic—one that
will make every Digger proud that he was bom
amongst them on the battlefield—a worthy journalistic
memorial to the A.I.F. One of his objects will be
to encourage and guide the Digger to transfer that
splendid spirit of comradeship, enthusiasm and
patriotism which made the Aussie Army supreme
and world-honored, as a fighting organisation into
the national life, and build a foundation for the
future nation that will make it supreme and
honored among the nations of the world, socially
and industrially-—to transfer the grand esprit de
corps which won the great battles of war into an
esprit de nation to win the great battles of Peace.
Where Aussie deals with problems of the Digger,
he will endeavor to .give him a lead. He will point
out where the Digger’s own interests end and where
the National interests begin: how much of what he
is promised by politicians is practical and what is
merely “pulling Iris leg” ; how much he can expect
to be given to him for keeps, and beyond what p'oint
he will have to give back, indirectly, what is given ; to
separate bluff from the genuine—hard facts from mere
propaganda. In short, he is out to serve Diggers
with the Dinkum Oil on Things in General.
We learn with regret that Aussie, like
the Australian Corps, will soon be a thing
of the past, having, also like the Corps,
finished its contract.
May I, on behalf of the Corps and myself,
tell you how heartily we thank you and all
who are responsible for the ripping little
magazine, and how much we appreciate the
effort that was made, and under difficult con-
ditions, but with the greatest success, to
cheer and brighten the lot 'of the “Digged’
through those dark and difficult days in the
past. It has, I know, often taken us out
of the “bluesand helped us along, when
we wanted helping, and badly.
We wish you all the best of good luck and
prosperity in Australia. May you be as suc-
cessful there as you have been with Aussie.
We are deeply grateful.
J. TALBOT HOBBS,
Lieut.-General,
Commanding Australian Corps.
Ham-sur-Heure, Bth April, 1919.
Aussie will do .everything in his power to obtain
redress for every genuine grievance of the Bigger,
not by publishing full accounts of individual com-
plaints, which is very often mere pretence rather
than a genuine desire to help, but by bringing his
case directly before the Department concerned and
forwarding the reply direct to the man concerned.
The mere publishing of columns of liberally head-
lined Diggers’ grievances, however emphatically ex-
pressed, does not mean that they will be
seen by the officials of
the Department con-
cerned, or, if they are
seen, does not call upon
-them to take official cog-
nisance of the complaint.
A direct communication
will be more satisfactory
to the Department and
bring better results.
Every complaint sent in
will be carefully investi-
gated, and the attention
requested of the De-
partment concerned. The
official reply will be for-
warded to the man mak-
ing the complaint. Only
when such methods fail
to bring proper explana-
tions or redress of
genuine grievances will
the columns of Aussie
be used to draw public
attention to the matter.
Thus will Aussie give real
service to the Digger.
This Service Department will be at the disposal
of all Aussies. It, will endeavor to disperse the fog
of misunderstanding and doubt that may be perplex-
ing the Digger regarding pensions, pay, repatriation,
legislation—in fact, all matters about which there
is doubt or grievance. Don’t worry ; use Aussie Ser-
vice Department.
HOW HE WILE APPEAL TO ALL
AUSTRALIANS. .
Aussie will be a patriotic, ambitious member of the
community, with a strong Australian personality,
appealing to the patriotism and national humor and
interest of ALL Australians. He will collect and
distribute the best anecdotes, sketches and cartoons,
and have many other features that will reflect
our character and life, and have as strong an appeal
to the interest of all classes as the battlefield Aussie
had for the Digger.
If you knew- and liked Aussie as a Digger, you
will like him better under more favorable conditions
as a ciwie. Remember, he will continue to belong
to the family in which he was born and reared at
the Front.
CONTRIBUTIONS.
Contributions are required from all sources. Those
from Diggers will' redeive special consideration.
Aussie wants his Digger cobbers to sustain him’
with literary pabulum in the same spirit as they
did at the Front; but it will not now be a buckshee
stunt. Everything used will be paid for. Don’t send
war stuff only; anything with a laugh in it is
wanted. Contributions, artistic and literary, are
particularly desired from former Aussie contributors.
Aussie will contain the best work of the best
Aussie writers and artists.
SUBSCRIPTIONS.
The first issue will appear early in the new
year. Price 6d. Yearly Subscription, 6/-; Half-
yearly, 3/- (add 1/6 yearly or 9d. half-yearly for
postage beyond the Commonwealth and N.Z.).
To Aussie.
To make sure of seeing “AUSSIE” regularly, fill in
and post this invitation to-day:—
Enclosed find
shillings. Come monthly for
months to
Aussie, St. James’s Chambers, 166 King Street, Sydney.
“Other things being equal—
Preference to Returned Soldiers/'
In your case are the “other things” equal—have you the -training to
get and hold a good paying position ? Remember, it is the TRAINED
man who succeeds.
The Central Correspondence College is offering
RETURNED SOLDIERS
Instruction Free of Cost
—By Correspondence—
If you want to improve your position, or if you cannot take up your
former work. ' .
Instruction in Advertising, Accountancy, Bookkeeping, Salesmanship,
Shorthand, etc. Any subject you desire. If you want sound training
write to the Principal and explain what you require.
Send this advertisement.
THE CENTRAL CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
165 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
mustdie:
New NON POISONOUS POWDER.
99
POWDER must not be mistaken for
insecticide or common insect powders,
some of which are sold under fancy
names, for “MUSTDIE” contains an
ingredient particularly fatal to that
common house pest aptly termed “The
Typhoid Fly.”
“MUSTDIB” is sold everywhere by- Chemists, Grocers, Storekeepers, 15
The Red Page
Brady
Few books recently published should have
a heartier welcome from Australians than
The House of the Winds, by E. J. Brady
(Harrap, London). It is a long time since
we heard him sing; but here he is at
last with a hearty book full of good sea
music making appeal to every lover of verse.
The volume has the tang of the salt from
cover to cover; the lines run easily with a
strong lift and swing. It is an honest book,
and every way a pleasing one; and the note
is Brady’s own. Here and there, as is but
natural, one is reminded of Kipling; but
there is no borrowing from Kipling, for when
ir comes to the sailor-man in port or grown
reflective as the ship noses down the river
Brady is easily Kipling’s master. In point
of fact, '‘The Ways of Many Waters” stands
alone among volumes of sea verse, and with
the new work added Australians may have
a reasonable pride in claiming that this con-
tinent has produced the chref poet of the
sailor-man. For it is of the saiior-
man rather than of the sea that Brady sings;
or, to state the matter better, Brady’s chief
skill lies in making the sailor-man sing his
own song.
Listen:—•
Her sails are furled and her anchor’s down,
The lamps are lighted in Melbourne town;
I’ll spend my money on Sally Brown,
Wey hey!
With a shipmate true and a pound or two,
I’ll spend my money on Sally Brown.
Wey, hey, ho! * «
And again:—
There’s something at the yard-arm
That’s swinging to and fro;
There’s something at the yard-arm—•
The drums are beating slow.
They swung it to the yard-arm
Alive a while ago ;
They hung it to the yard-arm
For all the fleet to know.
And after the burial of the "something” at
SGfl
There’s something at the yard-arm
That|s hanging high and white;
The middle watch that saw it
Is cursing in affright!
There’s something at the yard-arm
A-swinging all the night;
There’s something at the yard-arm—
God send the morning light!
Very like “Danny Deever,” but subtly dif-
ferent. The verse moves with a quieter beat ;
the touch of melodrama is absent; the ghost-
thmg m the night takes the place of the beer
m which Kipling’s tragedy ends.
Try Brady again
I hear the cotton chanteys ring,
And out across the bars
I see the Blackball fliers fling
Their topmasts to the stars.
The Indi man she tacks and wears
’ mt°’ er heavin ff miles of foam ;
The Bristol trader humbly bears
Her owner’s cargoes home.
The riding lamps glint through the rain
Wherein the roadsteads lie,
The timid hulls of trade again—
As in the nights goWe by.
And here he touches a note of profound
philosophy:—
Four-fifths of the World are water yet; four-fifths of
a Man the same;
The First Life Cell from the Primal Sea to mother
all kingdoms came.
If I but saw with the mollusc’s eyes, and thought
with a human brain,
I’d read, mayhap, the Riddle of Why, and utter its
meaning plain.
And this rings true to the last long-drawn-
out syllable, as the sailors go round the
capstan
What did the captain say to the cook
As the ship swung down the river?
‘Tve left my girl in London, too;
Her hair is gold and her eyes are blue,
--And I’ll love my girl for ever.”
What did the crew at the capstan sing? '
Nothing at all but the same old thing
As the ship came down the river:
“We’ve left our loves in London town,
And some were black and some were brown,
But we’ll love our loves for ever.”
It is hard to get Brady by quotation, but in
the lines given there is a hint of the quality
of the book. No; since every author must
stand comparison with himself, this book is
not as good or as forceful as “The Ways of
Many Waters.” It lacks something of the
rugged strength of that amazing volume.
Perhaps it has gained something in other
ways, but not enough to compensate. Brady
is a rough singer with a very polished line.
He does not look for fine groupings of words;
yet he never uses a word that jars. Give
him all praise as a craftsman; the book is
very worthy.
The Russian Puzzle
The only way to get a glimmering of
understanding about the tangle in Russia is
to arrive at some knowledge of the indi-
vidual Russian; and that gives value to
such a book as KashJca, the story of Maria
Botchkareva, the woman who got together
the so-called “Battalion of Death.” Maria
is an illiterate peasant, who can no more
than sign her name; but the story has been
told by her to Isaac Don Levine, who claims
to have put it faithfully on paper. It
establishes one of two things: the vividness
of Isaac Don Levine’s imagination or Maria
Botchkareva’s amazing memory. Still even
if Levine has invented detail there is no
reason to, suppose that the general outlines
are fabrications.
Behind the awful tragedy that is Russia
there is a tremendous fund of comedy; and,
though apparently neither Maria Botch-
kareva nor her Boswell recognise it, there
is as much humor as pathos about even the
Battalion of Death. The poor woman, pas-
sionately devoted to her country (though
God knows why), was made desperate be-
cause, instead of protecting it, the soldiers
among whom she had seryed had begun to
fraternise with the invading Germans. It
was'in the tragic belief that she could shame
them into attack that she projected her
battalion. By this time, of course, the
Revolution had arrived with its catchword
of “Liberty!” and the Army was spending
most of its time in forming itself into com-
mittees and talking, talking, talking. A vast
capacity for conversation seems to be what
is most the matter with Russia. The bat-
talion didn’t escape the epidemic. The Death
or Glory Girls had had their hair cut and
got into their uniforms when the inevitable
Bolshevik agitator turned up, “appealing to
them to form a committee and govern them-
selves in accordance with the new spirit.”
More than half of them approved of the speaker,
crying: “We are free. This is not the old regime.
We want to be independent. We want to exercise
our own rights.” And they seceded from the troop,
and finding themselves in a majority after taking
votes, elected a committee.
So only about 300 were left, and with them
the Commander went to the Front. Ap-
parently it wasn’t easy to find the Front.
However, the girls had to do something, so
they went over the top.
I had a vision. I saw millions of Russian soldiers
rise in an invincible advance after I and my three
hundred women had disappeared in No Man’s Land
on the way to the German trenches. Surely the
men would be shamed at the sight of their sisters
going into battle! Surely the front would awake
and rush forward like one man, to be followed by
the powerful armies of the rear. No force on earth
could withstand the onrush of fourteen million Rus-
sian soldiers....
That was the vision. This was the reality:
About 50 of my girls were dead and more than
a hundred wounded. We sent an urgent appeal to
headquarters. From the other end of the wire came
the appalling answer: “The Ninth Corps has been
holding a meeting. It arrived from the reserve bil-
lets and went forward till it came to the trenches
which the battalion held before the attack. There
it stopped and began to debate whether to advance
or not.
And “even more overpowering than the de-
liberation of the Ninth Corps, which was
sentencing us to annihilation” :
As I was rushing from position to position... I
came across a couple hiding behind a trunk of a
tree. One of the pair was a girl belonging to the
battalion, the other a soldier. They were making
love L .
After remarking that her “heart turned into
a raging cauldron,” the Commander briefly
remarks: “I ran my bayonet through the
girl. The man took to his heels before I
could strike him.” And the lady, judging by
her photograph, was too fleshy for swift
pedestrianism. That one day practically
finished the Battalion of Death.
After that she met Lenin and Trotsky,
who declined to take her seriously. So she
told them they were scoundrels, and set off
to America to have a word with President
Wilson, “carrying in my breast the message
of the Russian peasant-soldier to the Allies:
‘Help Russia to release herself from the
German yoke and be free!’” Apparently.
President Wilson misdoubted whether his
impetuous visitor knew the Russian peasant-
soldier quite as well as she thought she did.
Still, in spite of the ridiculous conclusion
of her Battalion effort, Maria Botchkareva
seems to be a very remarkable woman. She
describes her life (and incidentally the lives
of her two husbands and her father) up to
the time she got permission to enlist as an
ordinary soldier; and it is mostly a story of
drunkenness and hysterics and brutality and
petty theft and laziness and gullibility. She
met officialdom, too, and, whether the official
was in charge of a train or the Governor of
a penal station, it seems to have generally
meant an invitation to the girl to have the
run of the place in return for certain con-
cessions. That there was room for a Re-
volution is clear enough. That it was shame-
fully prostituted is equally clear. This pea
sant woman says she knows nothing of poli-
tics; but she saw this:—
In the towns it was the townsmen who suffered,
in the villages the peasants, all under the pretext of
confiscating the riches of the bourgeoisie. It was
sufficient for a peasant to buy a new overcoat, per-
haps with his last savings, for him to be branded
as an exploiter and lose his precious garment. ~ .The
confiscated garment would almost invariably appear
on the back of one of the Bolshevik ringleaders.
The Russian Bolshevist has his Australian
sympathisers. That is chiefly because Bol-
shevism is confounded with the Revolution.
But the Bolshevist wasn’t responsible for
the Revolution. He merely took violent
charge of it, and turned what, in spite of the
unpromising national material, might have
been a swift triumph of democracy into a
long orgy of savagery. (Constable, London.)
in the U.S.A.
J. M. Barrie’s find, Miss Daisy Ashford,
the nine-year-old authoress of “The Young
Visitors,” has fairly ripped American read-
ing circles up the back. Her book has suc-
ceeded Ibanez’s “Four Horsemen of the
Apocalypse” a§ best seller. Her name is on
every tongue, and the literary question of
the hour is “Did she write it?” The Eng-
lish Department of the Chicago University
firmly believes that Barrie himself is the
author. In New York “loud noises” swear
that it has sprung from the fertile brain of
Mrs. Humphry Ward. Nothing definite is
known about “Delectable Daisy,” and all the
time the book is going like wildfire. Over
half a million copies at a dollar each have
been sold in the States in the last two
months. A few days ago I met a well-
known Englishwoman who is here on a visit.
This lady, whose integrity is absolute, as-
sured me that she had met and conversed
with Miss Ashford. Sir John Foster
hraser, who has just arrived, vehemently
asserts that no one has ever even seen the
young authoress.
There is one comfort. At last a novel has
arrived whose unknown author is not sus-
pected to be Mr. Wells.
The works of Vincente Blasco Ibanez are
still in big demand—“ The Four Horsemen of
the Apocalypse,’* “The Shadow of the Cathe-
dra!, ’ “Mare Nostrum,” “Blood and Sand”
and La Bodega” in that order. The great
Spanish author is coming here to lecture
on “The Four Horsemen.” Although he
will have to speak through an interpreter
his tour is an assured success.
A second visitor is Maurice Maeterlinck,
who is coming in January to see his “Blue-
bird” opera produced, and to lecture on
spiritualism. “The Unknown Shore” he
calls it.
A third distinguished visitor, who arrives
soon, is Lord Dunsany, whose works' are
even more popular with Americans than are
Barrie’s or Bernard Shaw’s. The young
Insh nobleman, who, by the way, fought
through the war, has a unique place in litera-
ture. In England and Ireland he is almost
unknown as a dramatist: it is in America
that he has his great following. “If you
should ask for Dunsany the dramatist near
(Continued on page 28.)


xtae
Give Him a Box of these
Choice Cigars.
HX.—High-grade Quality Havana Cigars.
Muria’s. The Club.
Box of 25 15/6
A splendid range at various prices to select from.
This Handsome Tea & CofFee Set
will delight the heart of the recipient. It is heavily
Silver-plated on Britannia Metal, and comprises four
pieces—including Coffee Jug, which may be used for Hot
Water or Cocoa.
A Magnificent Present
£lO/10/-
Jam Spoon (CX3B). —Good Quality,
Silver-plated. Fashioned in pretty
design and well finished 4/6
Others at 2/6, 3/-, 3/3, 3/6 and 4/6.
8X62. —Pair Sterling Silver-
mounted Military Brushes,
with Cloth Brush and Cornb,
in Satin-lined Case.
Plain concave design . .. 90/-
BX6I. — High-grade Military
Brush and Comb. Sterling
Silver-mounted. In Satin-lit>ed
Case. Plain concave design.
Excellent value, 30/- and 35/6.
A Little Gift at
Christmas
has a wonderful effect in
brightening Life’s Pathway to
the next milestone. It need
cost but little, and in buying it
at Anthony Horderns’ you are
sure of getting the very best
quality procurable at the price.
This page suggests a few of the
QUAUTY GIFTS
selected at random from the magnificent
collection now arrayed for the Christmas
Season of 1919.
SEND FOR THE CATALOGUE.
BXI3. — Atkinson’s
Celebrated Bau
de Cologne, in
w i c k e r-eovered
bottle, as illustra-
tion. Prices:
Small 5/6
Medium .. 10/-
Large .... 18/6
A Useful Gift
is a Vegetable Dish of the type
shown here. It is divided and heavily
Silver-plated on Nickel Silver. The-
lid mav be used as an extra dish.
Sizes: a£in.. 42/-; 10in., 70/-
When you send a
Jam Dish
you combine the really useful with
the highly ornamental —-the latter
being a leading feature of the pretty
specimens at Anthony Horderns’. This
neat kittle Jam Dish is exceptionally
w’ell made. The frame is Silver-
plated on Nickel Silver and fitted with
a clear crystal glass dish 21/-
Anthony Horderns’ Christmas Catalogue
is now ready. It illustrates and describes
a host of pleasing Gifts to suit all ages
and requirements.
It costs you nothing! Write for a copy to
ONLY UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS,
605 BRICKFIELD HILL
SV DMEV.
HAND MADE FROM SELECTED
. VIRGINIA ..
*
TOBACCO
V.
v
SPECIALLY PACKED
. t o«0r
ANTHONY HORDERN ft SONS. LTD
WhoUui* end Mun New P*!m« Emporium
TtbucoDtiu. and _
OILY OIIVUMk MOYIDMI BYDHEI.
'W*
-h.w /////«.w////h-w j/ff.w
u ~
<iurir * lu *i
The Pleasure of a Smoke
is dependent on the quality. Give him a box of
Triumph—a brand that is sure to please.
Iu boxes of 25 1/5
Heavyweights, 25 2/3 tA 4/3
Dainty
Handbags,
embracing a widely-
diversified range of ex-
ceedingly smart and
novel designs, are
offered for your selec-
tion. All at values that
enable you to economise.
Wa
m
mm
Q 9 Morocco
Handbag, Poplin lined,
with inside pocket
lined in Suede. Fitted
with small Purse and
Mirror. Leather-cov-
ered frame .. . 24/-
m
•i)
I
"\SCx\ i
x>oc
8X43. —Cut Glass
Perfume Bottle,
Sterling Silver
band around neck,
lOin. high.
18/6 each.
Ql3. —Black
Morocco Handbag.
Silk Poplin lin e d.
Fitted with inside Kid
Pocket, small Purse
and Mirror. Leather-
covered frame, With
fancy knob fastening.
37/6
wMmm--'- '
mmmm
Qll. —Another w e 11-fashioned
Handbag, in Black Morocco,
Leather-lined. Fitted wl l h
small Purse, Mirror, Perfume
and Smelling Salts Bottle, 28/6
8X23. —Perfume Casket. Box
Satin-lined, pretty Floral design.
Three bottles good perfume, 8/-
BX22.—Perfume Casket.
Box, neat check pattern,
bottles good perfume
Card
Three
7/6


#
Nation Builders.
fl
Q
yj-
CJ
maam
/
MNSEED Olt
S'l
The Anzac has established a reputation for initiative, courage, determination and resource.
Whilst the Anzac was showing the world by feats of daring his indomitable spirit, he
also carried another message. The boots he wore, the -clothes he wore, completed an
Australian representation that has no superior in the world.
These accoutrements were manufactured solely in Australia.
Meggitt Limited’s Linseed Oil is manufactured at Parramatta, Australia, by good Australian
workmen.
Our Genuine and Pure Linseed Oil produced at our Parramatta Mills has no superior in
the world’s markets.
Help make Australia great. Maintain Australian Industry.
CATALOGUE NO. 2 MAILED FREE.
Full particulars from Agents:—Messrs. R. S. Exton & Co., Ltd., Queen Street, Brisbane. Messrs Harrisons, Ramsay, Ltd.,
666 Bourke Street, Melbourne. Messrs. Clarkson, Ltd., Bundle Street, Adelaide. Messrs. W. Adams & Co., King Street, Perth.
Messrs. F. W. Heritage & Co., Launceston and Hobart. Or
MEGGITT LTD
WORKS) PARRAMATTA
(The Pioneer Linseed Oil and Linseed Oil Meal
Manufacturers of Australia),
26 Ring' Street, SYDNEY
GGfrrs
lJNS£ra«lMa[
ii
MEGCITT IS
PARRAMATTA
The Boy on the Bag
guarantee! quality.


For Your Liver
Pinkettes, the new laxative,
give excellent results in cases of bil-
iousness and torpid liver. People
who are unnaturally drowsy and
sleepy, who lack ambition and
energy, are usually victims of their
liver.
Pinkettes have a specific action
on the liver and speedily banish the
feeling of lassitude and weariness.
They ate effective without being
d-astic and they have none of the
bad effects ot strong purgatives.
Pi ikettes also regulate the stomach
and liver, correct bad breath, clear
the complexion, and are an ex-
cellent remedy to use uring colds
and fevers.
1/- per bottle at all dealers.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “The Bulletin.”
The Ur. Williams’ Medicine Co.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
YOUR BOY
Can Build This!
u:
Cn.
§O5
Every boy dreams of having a Meccano
outfit of his very own. Because he
can build scores of splendid working-
models in shining steel of the Eiffel
Tower, Cranes. Bridges, Motors,
Looms, Searchlights—real machinery
of every kind.
MECCANO
consists of bright, plated-steel strips, angle-
brackets. plates, pulleys, gears, bolts and
nuts and tools —everything mechanically cor-
rect—no skill is required, no study. ' Full
instructions with every outfit. Meccano is
the simplest, most instructive and most enter-
taining hobby a boy can have.
Meccano is made in England.
Prices from 8/- per
Outfit upwards.
Send your name and address with stamp for
postage for a copy of the “Meccano Magazine”
—it is free !
To—The Meccano Depot (No. 1),
Box 1832 G.P.0.,
Sydney.
Where to Stay when Visiting Sydney
Cronulla Beach Hotel.
Direction Cronulla Hotel, Ltd.
Healthy, Invigorating SURFING Resort.
Tel., Ivogarah 19. Week-ends a Specialty.
J. A. GRANT, Manager.
CELEBRATED
sa
The Rapid Cure for Corns.
CORNS POSITIVELY CURED
by the use of a remedy so well known that it
has become a household word for the removal
of Corns old and voung—hard or soft, and
that remedy is A’CORN SILK, which
removes the worst torn in a few days, and the
sufferer is free from pain. It is a certain
cure—it kills them. It is a painless cure —
you don’t feel them going. It is a speedy cure
—four or five days does it. It is a handy cure
—no trouble, no preparation, no mess.
Sold in packets, 6d. each, or posted
direct by sending 7d. in stamps to the following,
viz:—-
Duerdin & Sainsbury, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
K. W. Bradley, Worando Buildings, Adelaide.
K. W. Bradley, Fitzroy Bui dings, Adelaide Street,
Brisbane.
Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., Market Street, Bydney.
L. Susman & Co., Merchants, Hobart.
R. H. Maxwell & Co., 14 Royal Bank Chambers,
Perth, W.A. [1
p eC et«»
\>ef
CV't' 5
OXe Most Acceptable
Gift for Christmas
&WAM
retiN?
Pfc Nl
Prices from
NEW SELF-FILLING PEN . . . 15/- & 16/6
SAFETY PEN, in two lengths .... 157-
STANDARD PEN 12/6
Obtainable Everywhere.
ALWAYS USE SWAN INK.
C%<2 c/e
of
.a cce.cj[r>c>,G.
e/iLCfirx e & r*z. /x cf
efftCLen-cy' &ncf
qenQpaf excellence
offie
SUNBEAM
may Lq /cLctooct
by Jpact of"its
ejCfensL\/e llsg ltx
atl ifieafres of" Wan
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO. LTD.
Export Department: 62, Oxford St., London, W.l.
Heed Office • Wolverhampton. England.
To the unique reputation gained
in competition successes previous
to the war, must be added that
achieved by the renowned
SUNBEAM-COATALEN
AIRCRAFT ENGINES
Sole Agents for New South Wales: FRASER & WIIXSFORD, 822 George Street, Sydney.
Put Your Haulage on an
Efficient Basis
Write us today
for free maga-
zine “Traffic
News. ’’
\LIU
-T
S'.
PS.;
SSSI
The reason so many concerns are confronted with excessive costs for
hauling is lack of investigation at the start. Any lorry buyer who takes the
trouble to study the question will find that the Federal Motor Lorry has an
unrivalled record for efficient hauling —it’s low upkeep cost giving ex-
tremely low cost of operation per ton mile.
The perfect mechanical construction of the Federal makes it practically
indestructible and keeps repair cost down to a minimum.
Whatever your requirements in motor trucking, the Federal Motor Lorry
will meet them efficiently.
H. W. CROUCH, Sole N.S.W. Agent,
26=28 Wentworth Avenue, SYDNEY.
Federal Motor Truck Company
Factory— Detroit, Mich., U. S. A. ForeignlDept. — lB Broadway,New York, U. S. A.
*1 lid
EaftKfa
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Jacaranda.
“The great jaearandas before Queensland Parlia-
ment House are in lull bloom.’’
Spring-filled. cup of Brisbane hills, flower-
spices in the air,
Trosses of the silky oak, glossy and yelloon ;
Scented gales that tumble bloom and petal
without care,
Beauty of the noontide sun and the high-
swung moon ;
Palm, and pine, and bottle-brush —crimson in
the green—
And hibiscus burning red, as trumpets that
could bleed ;
And the sloping gardens to the sluggish river
lean,
Serried with the armies of the flowers that
haste to seed ;
The gladioli shed their sheaths and draw
. swords at the sun,
Venusta and teioma blow their bugles to
the Spring.
Transilient convolvuli make airway leap and
run,
And a passionate bird no bigger than a
thumb begins to sing.
Our House is built of sandstone, toned and
mellowed by the sun,
Red, brown and yellow beauty in a Roman-
esque design ;
And the seasons, and the glamor of the warm,
kind years have spun
A garment like a patina, to soften curve
and line;
The cool Italian colonnades wake memories
that were dim.
The lawns, palm-sentinelled and green, aie
gracious to the sight;
The ribbon of the river, curving by its un-
seen rim,
And the eastern doors of daffodil that open
to the night;
The thickets of the Saviour’s Thorn let fall
their flowers of blood
T'nto the blackened garden walks, unto the
leaf-strewn grass;
Wind drifting down the fat mudbanks, unto
the sluggish flood.
Where the unseen fretful ferries cross, and
drift down stream, and pass;
The gorgeous jacaranda, in their splendor
burgeoning,
And the promise and fulfilment of the
splendid Northern Spring!
Before our House the beauty of the jaea-
rauda trees
In chameleonic changes flaunt their glories
to the sky.
And give challenge to the firmament, with
every vagrant breeze
That lifts the blooms of lavender, and
throws them down to die
On the white walk where their beauty
dwindles to a pallid stain,
As the purple nights of life shall fade, as
memories abate ;
As the slackening heart shall marvel, when
it thinks of youth again.
So the jacaranda fallen, fading, blanched
and etiolate;
The gorgeous jacaranda, in their splendor
burgeoning.
And the. promise and fulfilment of the
splendid Northern Spring !
By day round towers of lavender ; by night
a purple gloom—••
The baffling jacaranda that can be wistaria
blue,
When the dawn came out to look at all their
opulence of bloom ;
And at noon to mirples of the Indian seas
they grew;
Blue lavender, or purple, in the stations of
the sun,
And half a score of tints between the
changes of the light:
A faint and pallid lilac as the dawn is first
begun,
And darkening, with the starshine, to the
violet depths of night—
The gorgeous jacaranda, all their splendor
burgeoning.
And the promise and fulfilment of the
splendid Northern Spring!
QUEENSLAND.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
My Kingdom.
I cannot bear to wound another’s heart!
Why should one weep to make my happiness?
And if my love for you I should confess.
You, weary, toiling in life’s busy mart,
Would feel your love for me, now smothered
start
To life; and once again your tenderness
Would tempt me! How I long for your
caress
God knows, the while I play my lonely
part....
I think of you ; for surely thought’s domain
Is mine to dwell in, there the dreams I
build.
And you belong to me with hurt to none.
Here in this phantom world —where love
can reign,
Where life with mystic, honeyed joys is
filled—•
You are the core, the light, the very Sun.
VICTORIA.
CORA DUNNE.
Out of the Depths.
Christ on His cross in anguish hangs
Within each man’s life-tortured soul.
Loud Progress on her anvil clangs—
The swollen tides of torment roll.
O Brother, bleeding pale in mine,
Though red the stones my feet have trod.
And redder still the thorns that twine,
Forsaken, cry not so on God !
N.SAV.
ZORA CROSS.


THE TOOL-ROOM & ITS EQUIPMENT
All who are familiar with the methods of production demanded by modern
conditions know that the tool-room is an important unit in any manufacturing
scheme, and that on its efficiency the profitable running of a plant is, to a large
extent, dependent.
A manufacturing plant, consists mainly of capstan and turret lathe's, auto-
matic machines for bar and chuck work, milling machines, drilling machines and
grinding machines.
These tools cannot be run efficiently unless facilities are provided for
supplying the special tools, jigs and fixtures which they use. It is therefore
essential that a tool-room should be installed, having the plant necessary for the
actual production of these articles, in addition to the accommodation and
machinery which is required for their storage and maintenance.
Having had over 20 years’ experience with one of the largest manufacturers
of these tools, jigs and fixtures which are required in all manufacturing plants,
we are in a position to give reliable advice on the equipment and operation of
tool-rooms, either large or small.
We supply the tool-room plant itself, lathes, milling machines, shapers,
drilling machines and grinders, and also the drills, taps, reamers, gauges and fine
tools which are used either in the tool-room or in the main machine-shop.
ENQUIRIES ARE SOLICITED.
SPECIALTIES.
Horizontal Milling: Machines.
Vertical Milling: Machines.
Capstan loathes.
Combination Turret Lathes.
Hexagon Turret Lathes.
Automatic Turning: Machines.
Hall-bearing Drills.
Coventry Self-oi)ening Dielieads.
Coventry Concentric Chucks.
Coventry Collapsing Taps.
Haush Multiple Spindle Drills.
Brown Bevel Gear Sliapers.
Carpenter Taps anil Dies.
Pollard Heavy Duty Drills.
Photostat Copying Machines.
Wadkin Mills Universal Woodworking
Machines.
Dorman Tapping Attachments,
l-'ellows Gear Shapers.
Gardner Crank Pin Turning Machines.
Heald Grinding Machines.
Pratt Chucks.
Jackson Die Sinkers.
Keller Die Sinkers.
Maiden Screwing Machines.
Garvin Milling Machines.
Dodge & Shipley Lathes.
Lumsden Grinders.
Moback Machine Vices.
Norton Grinding Machines.
Queen City Shaping Machines.
E. G. Herbert Hack Sawing Machines.
Kotoflam Hardening Furnaces.
Eternite Case-hardening Compound.
Scriven Shipyard Machinery.
Taft Pierce Tool Room Specialties.
Tang.ve’s Heavy Machine Tools.
Tan Norman Combination Mills,
Worcester Drill Grinders.
Willard Lathes.
Wrigley’s Small Tools.
CHAS E. YOUNG
Sole Ag'ent for
ALFRED HERBERT LTD.
Machine Tool Makers and Importers, Coventry, England,
Telephones: City 10109, 10110.
Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Lathe,” Sydney.
Codes Used: ABC, Lieber’s, Western Union and Private.
57 GEORGE STREET NORTH, CIRCULAR QUAY, SYDNEY.
y
a
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS and APPLIANCES bearing
the Denyer Trade-mark are always RELIABLE.
The construction of each item we feature is the most modern yet
devised by Veterinary Science and investigation.
They are super-efficient, and should always be at hand on every
Station and Farm where stock is constantly needing attention.
Write for our Free Instructive Booklet and Catalogue—to-day
DENYER BROS.,
The Veterinary House of Australia,
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
&
1
SI
1
Q
m
1
I
I=l
m
M
ii
JONES
& C
je ©£>
1
ILP
Q^-S
Si
as
&
i
k
ii
$
IP
m
Sri
Ksr
&
W®S
S?S
»
££
»
Whenever you feel
A Little Hungry
Try this new Cheese
spread on biscuits.
For Breakfast, Luncheon, Dinner
—to end the meal or as a bedtime
“snack”—to give the stomach a
little healthful something to sleep
on, there is nothing more sus-
taining or so easily digested as
“REX” LUNCHEON CHEESE
Careful and correct maturing is alone
responsible for its mellowness and
piquant taste. Just let the family try it
Your grocer sells it.
FOGGITT, JONES & CO. LTD.,
Packers of “ REX ” Pure Food Products.
Curers of “REX” Hams and Bacon. jii3S
r
y SM-
f DO VOO KNOW)
WHO I AM?—
iH bump-
TH’ ROUGHEST
Jocr in
V Trt' COUNTY/,
'ZATSOTX
'WELL DO \
YOU KNOI/0 ) ’
WHO X AM
I h GOODRICH
th’ Toughest
■^re-hs)
\rtt’WOß!D
Goodrich Safety Tread Tyres
QUALITY FIRST is ever the upper-
most thought in the production of
Goodrich Tyres, and governs every step
of procedure, from the purchase of the
raw materials to the final inspection.
THE RESULT is Tyres of such super-
excellence that they SERVE BETTER,
LAST LONGER, and give much greater
satisfaction than those made to sell on
price.
GOODRICH TYRES are practical
tyres, big mileage producers and
“BEST IN THE LONG RUN ”
ONE TRIAL WILL WIN YOU.
OBTAINABLE ALL GARAGES.
DUVAL CO.
124 Russell St.
13 Castlareagh St
HORSHAM HOUSE,
Adelaide St,
MELBOURNE. SYDNEY. BRISBANE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 40.—N0. 2076.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 1910.
Trice Gd.
[Norman Lindsay, Springwood, N.S.W.]
IF ONLY THE HUN HAD KEPT GOING.
AUSTRALIA: “And what did YOU do to win the war, Mister Ryan?”
MISTER RYAN: “Well, you see, I was going to raise Ryan’s Thousand, but the dashed war only lasted five years.”


NOTICE UNDER THE ELECTORAL LAW.
For any unsigned matter in this paper for
which a signature is required under the
Commonwealth electoral law, S. H. Prior, 214
George Street, Sydney, accepts the responsi-
bility.
The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the 'White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED *ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 Gs. Gd. per annum you can have Tiie Bulletin
sent regularly to you every,week for a year, to any
ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Fdilor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknoivledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable'), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Tun Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and AVhite.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of Tiie Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London, E.C.i.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., 1/1/1 Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealpr, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; J.
Roland Kay Co., 181/9 Conway Buildings, Chicago,
U.S.A.; Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington,
U.S.A.; Bretano’s, Fifth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York.
Honolulu. —Fisher News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Iloung, Cairo. Egypt.
Hong Kong .—Briwer aim Co., Pedder Street,
Ilong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; 11. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua.-— Whitten Bros., Samarai and Kulamadan.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland.
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Ilowe Islands,
10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, IGoz.,
lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Soz., lid.; 81oz. to 10oz.. Sd.:
Wo to 120 z., Skd.; elsewhere, 1/oz., lid., and Id. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 1919.
THE GREEN PASTURES OF LOAF
AND THE STILL WATERS OF
DROWSE.
“If you win £lO playing with a pack of 52 cards
you would obviously win £2O playing with a pack
of 104 cards and £4O playing with 208 cards.” —
From Chapter X page Iti (“On Increased Note
Issues'’) of Solomon Malaprop’s great work,
“Public Finance and Wild Felines
“At June, 1919, Australia had in use £29,384,890
of notes of the issuable kind (apart from the £lOOO
notes which are not allowed to circulate) and made
a profit on them. Wherefore it is evident that it
would make six times the profit if it issued
£176,309,370 worth of notes. In like manner a
railway with rails 4ft. Bjin. apart is more
economic:'l than one with rails 3ft. 6in. apart, and
one with rails 144 ft. 81in. apart would be still more
economical. And in the same way it is plain that
if a man falls down a well on a Friday 12 men
would fall down six wells on two Fridays.”— From
Chapter XII (“Finance and Logic”) in the same
monumental work.
During last week the reports in one daily
paper showed no less than seven prominent
Labor candidates (Frank Anstey was
about the most definite) laying down the
allegedly obvious fact that there are two
simple ways of paying off the war debt—
by increasing the note issue and by applying
to the purpose the “profits of private banks.”
The note issue can be increased by merely
turning a few wheels in a printing office;
but a difficulty begins to arise when an
attempt is made to put the paper in circula-
tion. As things stood last June (and they
have altered very little since) the com-
munity had a use for about £29,000,000 of
paper money. There was also £26,000,000
of £lOOO notes, which had been issued as a
war expedient ; but the banks had been
forced to take them in exchange for gold,
and to lock them up unused, because to nut
them in circulation would have doubled the
price of everything. For anything beyond
the amount of paper required is the differ-
ence between one long cool beer on a hot
day and a fit of delirium tremens; between
a square meal and forcible feeding in gaol;
or between washing one’s face and a drown-
ing accident. As for the glorious idea, re-
peated from a thousand brazen throats, that
vast financial problems can be solved by
annexing the profits of the private banks,
there are just these difficulties in the way
to begin with :
(1) The said profits are something over £2,000,000
a year in the banking returns, but those of the
two big Maoriland banks are quite out of reach.
They are included in Australian returns because the
offices do a little branch business here, but the
profits are outside Federal jurisdiction. Anyhow,
£2,000,000 or £2,000,000 a year wouldn’t be a
drop in the bucket to a party which has already
made promises that call for about £40,000,000 n
year. It would only add a miserable shilling in
the £ to the revenue. Banking profits are largely
a superstition, like buried treasure.
(2) If the profits are to be secured intact the
banks must be confiscated, for if the shareholders
are bought out with bonds at current rates the
interest on them will absorb most of the earnings.
Four banks —the Union, Australasia, E. S. and A.
and London —can’t be confiscated unless Britain is
first licked in war, because. they are owned in
England, and J. Bull would defend his property.
Two more—the B.N.Z. and the National of Maori-
land—can’t be confiscated unless Maoriland, and any
allies it can get, are licked in war, for they are
owned there. The banks within reach would hardly
pay the cost of seizure.
* * * *
Laborites of the new school have to talk
this silly and poisonous trash, even if they
know it is all a lie, because they are in a
cleft stick. By little and little —by igno-
rance, by making wild promises on the spur
of the moment, and by following the line of
least resistance—they have become the Less-
Labor party, or the Slow-Labor party, or the
No-Labor party. The prominent men who
stood for Labor have quitted or have been
forced out, and are now denounced as rene-
gades. The No-Laborites have come in and
taken the name. It is obvious to all save the
blind and ignorant that the great bulk of
the increased cost of living is the increased
cost of imported goods, and while we import
instead of manufacture for ourselves we can
no more alter these prices than Frank
Anstey can “take over” the Bank of N.Z.
or any other of the six foreign institutions.
When it requires an acre of wheat on the
basis of the crop of the whole Commonwealth
as it was in 1014-15—the crop that repre-
sented a year’s labor and patience—to buy
10 reels of the imported sewing cotton out
of which Coats of Britain makes 40 per
cent, dividends, the situation is pretty bad
and the importing disease pretty horrible.
Yet sewing cotton is only an item among
hundreds of imports. There are scores of
things like sewing cotton —things not subject
to drought—at making which the Australian
workman, if he was willing to toil at a fair-
pace and with reasonable skill for 48 hours
(perhaps 44) per week, could make a weekly
wage of £25 at the present importers’ prices,
or £lO at considerably reduced prices. But
that chance can’t be put before him by the
present gang of leaders without preaching
the doctrine of More Work, and the doctrine
of keeping on terms of reasonable civility
with the private employer, or else the start-
ing of great industries by co-operative effort.
Not one of the Slow-Labor leaders of to-
day has started anything by co-operative
effort or proposes to do so or looks capable
of doing so. The idea of a system under
which there would be no employer but only
themselves to blame for failure is too ter-
rible. As for making terms with the private
employer, the verbal stock-in-trade of the
No-Labor leaders is that the employer is an
incurable enemy—a Turk or heretic or
hyena—with whom no faith should be kept.
And as for declaring that the community
must do more work or better work or both
kinds of work, or else be bled white by the
foreign profiteer for ever, that is for the
No-Labor leaders the most impossible thing
of all. These charlatans lead the Austra-
lian into the green pastures of Loaf and the
still waters of Drowse. They teach him an
immense self-satisfaction and an immense
self-pity; also an immense admiration for
themselves. They instruct him that his great
need, so that he may lead the Life Beautiful,
is more time to attend the racecourse, where
there is dust, blasphemy and perspiration
and everything is dishonest except the horse.
When they talk of work it is the building
of railways and such like out of loans, for
with the loan to cover everything there isn’t
need to show good management or profit or
even a pretence of solvency.
* * * *
Australia is, in proportion to population,
the most profiteered .(foreign-profiteered)
land on earth. The Australian has learned,
in the gold-boom and loan-boom and land-
boom days, to want more than other workers.
This is called “the high standard of living.”
He has learned to do so little for hirftself
that he imports matches, beeswax, woollen
socks and bricks. The importer who doesn’t
want local industry to interfere with his
shameful profits supports this state of things
in conjunction with the Less-Labor leader —
the one who took possession of the movement
when the Labor leader by necessity left it—-
who lives by telling the flattering tale that the
worker is a darned sight too industrious and
skilful and versatile already, but is robbed
of the accumulated results of his toil. He
must allege accumulations somewhere, other-
wise it would be plain, from the public
debt and other signs, that sufficient work
or sufficiently intelligent work isn’t being
done. The commonest idea is to loot
the banks; for that untold wealth
laid by. What actually was laid by on
June 30 last was £26.000,000 in £lOOO notes
that were of no use to anybody, about
£0.000,000 in other notes, and a mass of bills
and other paper. There wasn’t much besides.
Incidentally it is proposed to make the
“cattle barons” pay up, notwithstanding that
Ryan excuses his awful finances in Queens-
land on the ground that the drought has
killed the cattle and the barons also. Truly
the party of Slow-Labor has to lie pretty
hard these days.
[Written to express the opinions of The Bci. letin
by James Edmond, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
THE GOSPEL OF “BETTER NOT.”
The Farmers’ party, according- to its cam-
paign director, is taking no chances on the
Referendum question. “It has yet to be proved
to us,” he said last week, “that even Mr.
Hughes is to be trusted with these extended
powers when granted to him in the form of
a blank cheque.” This is the argument
which was used so generally a dozen years
ago against the Australian Navy. It still
had to be proved in those days that Aus-
tralia could be trusted with a fleet. It was
freely employed in England in opposition to
self-government for the Australian States.
A century earlier it had been • exploited with
fatal effect against the aspirations of the
American colonies. History is littered with
it. Wherever a big man has appeared with
a spacious scheme, herds of small men have
gathered beneath a banner inscribed “Better
Not!” It is the policy known to the Italians
as Pareccliio —the policy of sitting down in
the roadway in the mistaken belief that
there is danger only in action. The Gal-
lipoli Commission’s review, which was tabled
in the House of Commons a few days ago, is
one long story of this misplaced caution. “The
attack at Suvla was not pressed as it should
have been.” “Provision was made to send
two divisions; then Lord Kitchener
changed his mind and sent only one.” One
of the greatest disasters of the war might
have been averted if there had been some-
one in authority ready to take a chance, and
take it quickly. D’Annunzio holds Fiume
to-day because he never was parecchiste.
The quavering attitude of the Farmers’
party towards the Referendum proposals rep-
resents parecchio in full working order. The
Farmers don’t exactly claim that the nation
will be ruined if anything is done to the
Constitution: but they want proofs to the
contrary before they will agree to vote Yes.
Unfortunately it is impossible to prove any-
thing of the sort. W. M. Hughes might
go mad and foment a bloody revolution if
he got the powers for which he is asking.
Anything might happen. All that can be
said with certainty is that, arguing from
existing conditions and tendencies, there is
not the slightest danger. Hughes is only
asking to be allowed to do for Australia, as
a whole, some of the numerous things which
each of its six parts has been free to do
for itself ever since it became autonomous.
He wants the National Parliament to have
that control over trade and commerce, and
over monopolies, which it was believed by
everybody to have until the High Court de-
cided to the contrary in the matters of the
Trade Marks Act and the Australian Indus-
tries Preservation Act. And he only requires
these modest powers for a period of three
years. At present no one is clear, on scores
of issues, as to where the National Parlia-
ment’s authority begins or ends. The dis-
putes on quarantine questions between the
Commonwealth and the States at the time of
the influenza epidemic were the outcome of
this doubt. Theoretically the Commonwealth
controls quarantine; but each State con-
trols its Health officers. If the National
Government had had full and unquestioned
power from the beginning to isolate an in-
fected State or part of a State, it is just
possible that it might have saved the rest.
With each State battling oh divergent lines
the ultimate infection of the Commonwealth
was a certainty. The diseases which arise
from uncontrolled trade and commerce—
profiteering, sweating and the like—are as
fluid in their incidence as the influenza. The,-
take no account of State boundaries. It would
be useless for the Victorian Government to
declare potatoes a necessary commodity and
fix the price of (say) Snowflakes at £2O
a ton as a permanent thing. In a little
while they would be selling in N. S. Wales
at £2o or more (even though, as happened
recently, steps were taken in defiance of sec-
tion 92 of the Constitution to prevent them
crossing the border) while the Victorian con-
sumers went short. Intra-State anti-pro-
fiteering measures must always fail in the
island-continent along whose illimitable bor-
ders State customs officers may only do their
duty by breaking national laws. It is the
same in other matters. The State which
pays the highest wages tends to denude itself
of industries. The benevolent State, the one
with the most lavish old-age pension scheme,
gets more than its share of idle hands.
Obviously there can never be genuine equity,
as between State and State, without genuine
union.
* * * *
The proposed instalment of temporary uni-
fication which the Farmers’ party shies at
so nervously is a mild affair compared with
the form of government which has operated
in most civilised countries for centuries. The
British Parliament could “embark on danger-
ous Socialistic and nationalising enterprises in
every field of commerce and industry” to-mor-
row if it wished. A great authority has said
that the House of Commons can do any-
thing but “make a man a woman or a woman
a man.” Why has it never been led into
so much as one of those sensational acts of
inequity which the Farmers look for as a
matter of course if T. J. Ryan is returned
to power (plus the amendments Hughes
wants), and which they suspect that even
Hughes may attempt if he is given the
chance? The simple reason is that the Bri-
tish people, like the Australian people, are
sane. There has never been a majority, or
anything like a majority, of them in favor
of organised robbery. Without troubling to
reason it out. the good sense of every nation
apprehends that if its Government started
stealing on a large scale, or flagrantly vic-
timising any one class, individuals would
follow suit, and the lives of rich and poor
alike would become intolerable. If for no
higher ethical reason than that, constitution-
ally-chosen administrations do not plunder
and proscribe. They are not paid their
salaries for activities of the sort, and they
realise it. Such practices are the work, on
the contrary, of Governments which, like
that of Russia, have arisen on the ruins of
Constitutionalism. To be afraid of an indivi-
dual politician or party in Australia is par-
ticularly absurd, because here, if anywhere,
the only Czar is the people; but for a
farmer who can’t help fearing the people
the obviously logical thing to do is not to
stay here and shudder, but to go away and
farm in one of those countries where the
people are gagged.
[Written to express the opinions of Tub Bulletin
by J. B. Dailey, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
THE MEAT THAT "WAS EATEN IN ’86.
Acting on the simple principle of tamiug
on subjects that are easy to talk about,
politicians of one sort and another are say-
ing a vast deal about the fact that the price
of meat has gone up 68 per cent, since 1914.
Considering that the writer has just paid
30s. for a suit of imported pyjamas—the
shoddy kind which used to be worth is. tia.
or 10s.—and that that rise is 300 or 400
per cent., the meat increase seems probable
enough. The ox “baron/’ who now looks
niucn more like an ox-beggar in some parts
of Australia, has had many things to con-
tend with. The seasons have been' poor
and are now worse. Wages have risen faster
than the price of beef. Taxation has risen
three times as fast as the price of beef.
The price of most imported things that the
baron uses lias gone up fro® twice to six
times as fast as the price of beef, and in-
terest, estimated on the cost of Government
loans, has gone up at least as fast. More-
over, the beef-grower isn’t getting nearer to
a market. The tendency to drag more and
more people to the capital cities and to
push the ox-cultivator further away from
the capital cities to make room for wheat-
farmers, precludes that. Also his railway
charges have been raised like those of every-
body else. Then in the ox-State par ex-
cellence a considerable part of the output
is seized by the Government at far less
than market rates, and presumably the price
of the balance goes up to make good the
loss. Premier Denham of Queensland fixed
meat prices at a low rate in the first days
of the war, and Premier Ryan, coming into
power when the war was 10 months old.
shortly raised them all round on the plea
of necessity. It is characteristic of Ryan
that he always talks as if Denham had
done the rise and he had done the reduc-
tion. Then the ox-raiser has the merit of
being mostly a man who lives in Australia
and spends his money here, quite unlike
the importer and the foreign bond-holder.
And in the main he uses land which is of
little value to anybody else until Australia
gets a lot more population.
* * * *
And the cattle baron has also the virtue
of not being retrospective. If he does raise
prices a little now, he doesn’t double
the charge for the meat that dead
people ate in 1886. Therein he differs
from that ruinous profiteer the out-
side money-lender—that spectre of de-
struction and desolation which Ryan and
Holman alike hug with ever-increasing fer-
vor. This wonderfully retrospective person
has just put up the price of the beef which
he furnished about 1886, which was also
about the time when The Bulletin began
to preach the anti-loan gospel in dead
earnest, by almost exactly 68 per cent. That
is to say, the old loan (which was worth
beef) has begun to fall due and
the price has been put up to that extent.
And the man with the thick end of the stick
reserves the right to put it up again at his
own discretion about 1927, and in an in-
definite number of succeeding years, until
the country either goes into general bank-
ruptcy or gathers up its courage and pays
the bill by hard work and economy. Judging
by the fact that almost every financial tale
that comes from London, the place where our
prices are raised, is more desolate than the
last, it seems that the increase is to be a
steady thing for a long time. Of course the
price of new loan-beef is going up to corres-
pond ; in fact, the frantic raising of new
loans makes the renewing of old ones more
difficult and costly. But that evil could be
cured by leaving off the wretched drug habit
and employing the men who are now paid out
of dear loans to make cheaper clothes instead.
The floating of short-dated, loans with no
provision to meet them at maturity—and
there never is any provision—is the giving of
an interminable series of blank cheques to
people whom we don’t know, but about whom
we entertain grave suspicions.
All the political programmes now before
the country have loans in them —-not merely
war loans, which may be inevitable, but
habitual loans put forward as part of the
settled and eternal policy of the country.
The Ryan loans are stupendous. The Tudor
loans are quite as heroic, though Tudor
lacks something of Ryan’s imagination.
Minister Fihelly, of Queensland, fast being
harried into the grave by the unemployed,
has promised that as soon as the expensive
loan-ship comes in, loaded with expensive
loan rails, he will set the malcontents to mak-
ing more loan railways out in the drought—
the kind that are built with money raised
at £5 13s. 6d. per cent, and are returning
13s. 9d. per cent, and are expected to return
less. And when this temporary work is
finished and the unemployed come back for
more, Fiiielly doesn’t know what will hap-
pen. And Holman, of N. S. Wales, has
his usual programme of railways, mostly ex-
tensions into poorer country of non-paying
lines which are beyond the limit of profitable
settlement already. This is a fancy picture
of the balance-sheet of a really up-to-date
railway costing, say, £500,000:- —
Loss of interest, as the work doesn’t pay any and
isn’t seriously expected to —say £28,750 per annum.
Additional loss on working expenses: If this is
set down at random at a mere £IOOO a year it will
be £IOO,OOO in a century. It may be much more.
Loss of the work of, say, 200 construction men for
two years, they being employed on a wholly non-
paying job. In a manufacturing industry where the
output was worth even a mere £4OO per man per
annum this would be £160,000.
Loss through buying the goods these men might
have made for local consumption from the foreign
profiteer who charges us 100 per cent, more (some-
times it is 200 or 300 per cent, more) than he should
do by reason of our helplessness—another £160,0 .
Repetition of these losses every two years. T p
idea is that the work of construction lasts two years,
at the end of which time another loan speculation


THE CHRISTMAS BULLETIN.
The special Christinas Num-
ber of THE BULLETIN will be
published on Saturday, Decem-
ber 13. It will be found just as
good as the writers and artists
of Australia can make it;
and, approximately, there are
a hundred of them repre-
sented —as far as this paper
knows, the largest collection
of workers with pen-and-ink
ever got together in Australia.
PRICE 6d.
has to be invented to keep the men employed. As
the trouble accumulates perpetually this item is
too vast to be put into figures.
Loss of the earning capacity of the men who are
employed to manage and repair the line. A railway
isn’t like a pyramid or a sphinx, which doesn’t
require a staff of attendants. If there are even 20
of them it means, at a very modest calculation of
an artisan’s productive value, £BOOO a year.
Gain in population—quite indefinite. On many
lines, especially the more remote ones, population is
on the decline and what remains is in desperate need
of assistance. In two States the population is
diminishing everywhere save in the capital cities.
Australia is really only getting into its stride
with this amazing business. It has only
begun to build railways out beyond the cul-
tivation line in real earnest and the big old
loans have only begun to fall due in real
earnest. That means that the loan-monger
—the retrospective person who puts up the
price of the meat we ate in 1886 —has just
started solid work at his job of retrospective-
ness.
STATE GOVERNORS REGARDED AS
INTELLECTUALS.
At the Armistice banquet in Sydney W. A.
Holman forgot the old rule that the only
safe line for upholders of the State-Governor
tradition is silence. He was inspired to
Let the candied tongue lick absurd pomp,
And crook the pregnant hinges of the knee,
so that he claimed that State Governors had
ever been to him more like counsellors than
figureheads. Governor Davidson was pre-
sented in the role of the astute old family
attorney, and the N. S. Wales Ministry as a
simpleton in need of his guidance. Of course
it is not the duty of any Australian Gover-
nor to advise his Ministers; nor has it been
for upwards of half a century. His duty
ends, so to speak, with the stamping of the
documents which they put in front of him.
•
But what rancid courtiers’ stuff it is to
suggest that the class of man who is chosen
as a modern State Governor is equipped to
advise, even unofficially, on local questions!
Some of the earlier men did try to assert
themselves. In N. S. Wales Lord Belmore
and Sir 11. Robinson in tli# ’seventies and
Lord Carrington in the ’eighties often found
it difficult, apparently, to realise that they
were not in charge of a Crown Colony. But
their successors, bowing to the inevitable,
have been satisfied to forego even the shadow
of power. They tend more and more to be
amiable society men of the type of Lord
Hampden ; or ex-officers who have deserved
well of their country, like Sir Harry Raw-
son ; or conscientious civilians such as
Governor Davidson : admirable examples
occasionally—though not by any means
always—of the family virtues; serviceable in
some small measure, possibly, as “links,”
though the Empire would not be at all pre-
judiced if the lot of them were suddenly
posted as missing. But as suppliers of in-
tellectual strength or new ideas —no ! Any
retired admiral living in obscurity in South-
sea is as fitted as Sir Harry Rawson was
to “govern” N. S. Wales. Any nobleman in
a West End London club is as competent to
advise Holman how to run N. S. Wales
as a Carrington or a Hampden ; and any
minor English civil servant might be in
Governor Davidson’s place without anyone
noticing the difference.
* * * *
Unquestionably a tremendous amount of
sound advice might be given, in an unofficial
way, to Ministers if Downing-street sent
men who were capable of giving it. Or to
put it in another way, if such men would
accept State Governorships. Any Premier
might be glad to go to Government House
in search of a reliable tip on an anti-pro-
fiteering measure if C. A. McCurdy, K.C.,
were there. There would be plenty of first-
hand advice available on strike-prevention if
Ix»rd Leverhulme ever became a State
Governor. One of the great Jewish finan-
ciers might be well worth the money. Even
a dreamer, an 11. G. Wells, might put
stimulating suggestions before his Ministers
in the infervals of laying foundation-stones
and giving garden parties. But such men,
the first-class minds of England, would
smile at the thought of immuring themselves
in a Government House anywhere; while
oddly enough many of them might find it
hard to get the billet if they wanted it. The
Colonial Office would never have stood the
idea of Robert Louis Stevenson as a
Governor, though he needed the money and
had to live in a warm climate, and though,
with his fascinating personality, he would
have been priceless as a “link.” But he
habitually walked about his house and
grounds without boots! In practice the can-
didates are confined to a small class. Peers
who are hard up and want to go into tem-
porary retirement and save money ; country
squires who have influence with a Minister
and whose ambitions rise above a seat in
their local court of summary jurisdiction,
or who have married aspiring wives; faith-
ful party men who have proved their incapa-
city to rise out of the ruck; political nuis-
ances who are ready to exile themselves m
consideration of the promise of a star or a
step—such are the officials to whom vv. A.
Holman goes, “sure in the knowledge that
he will be wisely advised.” #
If it was suggested that Judges should be
imported from London thp State Righters
would protest as loudly as any other section.
The idea would rightly be looked on as an
insult to the local Bar. The notion that
State Governors have to be brought, at
great expense, from England, lias its real
origin in the theory that “Colonials’ are
not fitted to permanently fill such an im-
portant post- —which is an insult not to a
section, but to the people in the mass. The
superstition is perpetuated, in word and
deed, by every State Government, Liberal
and Labor, for evident reasons. If it disap-
peared anything might happen. Following
on the saving of several thousands a year by
the abolition of the Governor, the electors
might, and probably would, decide to save
themselves several millions a year by abolish-
ing the State Parliament. The two ana-
chronisms more or less stand or fall together.
A Samuel Griffith or an Adrian Knox, a
Barton or an Isaacs is good enough to sit
in the High Court: but a Governor drawn
from their class is not fitted to act as
adviser, under the rose, to W. A. Holman !
For that purpose the State must go on im-
porting an official whose advice is not
greatly esteemed in the country he should
know best—-his own. Did any body of elec-
tors ever have put before them a proposi-
tion more insulting to their intelligenceV
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The League of Nations.
Because his country did not come into the
war until after more than three years of
awful struggle, in which it was adding enor-
mously to its strength while the Allies were
bleeding themselves white, President Wilson
was able to dictate terms in Paris. And he
did dictate them. Not scrupling to remind
them of their relative positions—he the
powerful creditor, they the desperate debtors
—he imposed his will upon them, and pushed
his League of Nations scheme through. The
terms of peace were based upon the League
Covenant. Because the members of the
League bound themselves each to protect
every other member, France consented, un-
willingly, to forego the full possession of the
Rhine as a defensive frontier. Indeed, the
whole complexion of the Peace treaty was
governed by the League of Nations Covenant
which the great and menacing creditor forced
upon the Allies. And now the Senate says
that Woodkow Wilson had no authority to
bind his country in any such way! Tiie
Bulletin prefers to believe that the Senate
is merely exercising its right to discipline
its President. He had no right, constitu-.
tionally, to bind the United States. But he
was in a position to use the power and
authority of the U.S.A. to compel the others
to take a certain course, and he used that
power. Had the parties come into that con-
ference on equal terms there could be no
serious complaint now if in the end the
U.S.A. turned down the whole or any part
of the League of Nations scheme. That
Woodrow VVilson was a Democratic Presi-
dent who had presently to face a Republican
Parliament was known to them all. That
the ratification of a treaty demands a two-
thirds majority of the Senators present was
also presumably known to them. Had they
come in on equal terms it was, therefore,
plainly up to them to look after themselves;
to protect their own interests; to guard them-
selves against the consequences of the refusal
of any principal to confirm his agent s agree-
ment. But in this case they were under
coercion. No doubt a man making a busi-
ness deal is entitled, from the business man s
point of view, to take all the advantage of
a superior tacti' ' position. But in this case
the U.S.A. cannot fairly neglect to consider
how it got that superior tactical position. It
Was simply, of course, by standing out of the
fight for over three years; by taking
advantage of the necessities of those who
were, as it afterwards admitted, fighting for
civilisation. In such circumstances it can
fairly be submitted that America was not
entitled to take advantage of its stronger
position, its stronger position being, in point
of fact, something that it is entitled to be
rather ashamed of than otherwise. But be-
cause it did use its position, and because it
compelled those who had for three years
admittedly been fighting its battle, there is
How no fair course open to it but to suffer
itself to be bound by the*President who not
merely pledged America but compelled the
others to pledge themselves to a course they
were little satisfied with. Yet even if the
U.S.A., having disciplined its President,
decides to see the thing through to which lie
committed it. Australia in particular is
bound to remember that, though America
accepts the League, it frankly does not like
it; and if it doesn’t like the thing, then its
adherence may not add much real strength.
Which merely makes it vastly more neces-
sarv that Australia should be prepared to
defend itself in the old way.
Slaves of the Revolutionary Mill.
Life is strenuous for the State Ministry
that Ryan left behind him. The political
gospel which be preached in his Opposition
days, and which landed him in powder, has
proved an awkward thing for a man in
power. Its general tenor was: —
That whatever is is wrong.-
That everybody should be against the Government
because it does nothing right.
That all people in receipt of wages and adherents
of the Labor party in general should live in a per-
petual state of worry, suspicion, excitement and skin
irritation because somebody is robbing them, that
their attitude should be that of the old spinster look-
ing for burglars under the bed.
That to do good work is proof of a slavish desire
to grovel to the capitalist. That to do any work is
open to the same suspicion. That to take an interest
in any kind of work shows a debased mind. That
the only good thing to do with work is to stop it.
That the only proper state for a free man to be
in is a state of incipient riot and perpetual bel-
ligerency. That he should always be trailing his coat
and spoiling for a fight like the British tar with
his “customary attitude’ - in “Pinafore.”
That he should be uncivil on every possible o,cca-
sion and spread his gospel of discontent far and
wide.'
That he shouldn’t cultivate constructive statesman-
ship, but have a soaring, bouncing, open-air soul
above petty details. Also that his entire mental
position should be that of protest—the position of
the man who wears his hat in a drawing-room as
a protest against an effete civilisation, and back-
slaps strangers and calls them “Bill’' - as a protest
against conventionality. This sometimes develops-
into black-slapping their wives and calling them
“Sally,” and many women in light dresses dis-
like this when the weather is hot.
Ryan became the Government himself, and
his pupils began to treat him according to
his own teachings, and the running of rail-
ways and such-like works with this disor-
ganised material was a misery. So Ryan
got out and left Theodore and Fiiielly to
carry the fractious infant. A deputation of
the allegedly enormous army of unemployed
(enormous because so many kinds of enter-
prise have been stopped or partially stopped
as a brisk, sturdy, open-air protest against
“capital” ) waited on Theodore about well-
paid work, productive or otherwise, with
short hours and not too much control. When
the harassed Premier said that his predeces-
sor had left the Treasury empty it spoke to
him after the breezy fashion which his party
had taught in its Opposition days, and
almost threatened, in the language of the
late Thomas Bent, of Victoria, to “dot him
one.” Next time the deputation called
Theodore was wisely off duty, and Fiiielly
was Acting-Premier. Fiiielly was wisely
absent. But it was a futile expedi-
ent ; the deputation, being informed to
that effect, frankly regarded the informants
as liars, and went to inspect the Premier’s
room. Then, on the plea that the room and
its contents were theirs in their capacity as
citizens, they took possession and held an
impromptu concert. They didn’t seem as if
they wanted to sing, which is dry work with-
out refreshments, and some of them sang
discordantly and out of tune; but they would
probably have felt as though they were
minions of the oppressor if they hadn’t done
something of the sort. They wouldn’t go
away, and it was difficult for the acting-Pre-
mier to come to them and be compelled to
stand because all the chairs were occupied.
So the deputation was invited to meet him
at his Railway office, where he already had
a chair. Here he spoke softly to Ins visitors
and made promises, and there was again the
veiled understanding that failing satisfaction
they might “dot him one.” Fiiielly and
co. hardly know what to do with supporters
of this sort, for they are almost the only
sort of supporters the Government has, and
they merely behave as they have been taught.
They don’t seem to grow rich over it either ;
in fact, they say they are out of work and
poor. And they don’t seem to be happy over it;
rather they labor at being discontented and
unemployed and uncivil as a sincere hermit
of old times labored at flogging himself, or
as an exhausted and painted and expensively
half-dressed lady of fashion labors to-day at
the social round. It has simply become a
matter of duty to be doggedly gone through
somehow —a sort of treadmill.
Legislating Under Difficulties.
The N. S. Wales Minister for Housing
introduced the Holman Government’s
Anti-Profiteering Bill last week. There was
nothing of the clarion note about his dis-
course. “There were high hopes,” he said,
“for the lowering of prices in N. S. Wales,
but he did not think many of them would
be realised.” Neither does The Bulletin.
For an individual State to go to war with
high prices is almost as splendidly hopeless
an enterprise as if it were to go to war with
the wide world. It may win a minor
engagement here and there,, but it is an
economic certainty that it will lose the general
campaign. America pours in a tremendous
volume of goods whose prices are regulated
in Ajneriea ; and it is the same with every
other Start- with which we ‘rale. The
Commissioners appointed under csed
Act may fix prices for iSi. S) WV
butter or woollens or wheat in 1,. S. Wales.
But their authority will not extend over the
border. Section 92 of the Constitution pro-
vides for inter-State freetrade, and no new
State Act can over-ride the principle; nor
can State Legislatures prohibit the export
of goods. The N. S. Wales firm which is
debarred from selling at a high price at home
(a proceeding which is generally known as
profiteering, though it often isn’t) may sell
either in another State or in another coun-
try. The N. S. Wales consumer won’t
benefit in that event. It can be of no advan-
tage to Sydney that a glass of wine or a
loaf of bread should be cheap on a Govern-
ment schedule if the refreshments are not
available ow-ing to Melbourne or Rio being
prepared to pay profiteer’s prices for them.
The Commission may, no doubt, do effective
work in regulating prices in some small
lines; hut any serious effect upon the cost
of living can only come from greater produc-.
tion. And we shall have to be careful that
in fixing prices we do not reduce rather than
increase production. There was, for instance,
a great outcry (and in some cases probably
a proper outcry) against prices lately de-
manded for vegetables. Yet if there were
not occasional prizes hundreds of men would
go out of a business from which they so
frequently draw blanks. The profiteering
that really matters is in imported stuffs.
We may be able to limit the bites of the
wholesaler; but apart from that we shall
do nothing of much account until we have
the manufactures on the spot. And that is
not a matter for the State Government. So
it can do little: though the little it can do
this paper is not at all disposed to discour-
age it in attempting.
The Waste of the Canefiekls.
“Badila” talks about, it:—
Randolph Bedford Shows in his remarks on the
waste of molasses in Queensland (B. 9/10/’l9) that
he is unaware of the difficulties which the scientific
men of the industry are still trying to solve. The
molasses is exhausted as fully as possible of its
crystallisable sugar, but even then there remain some
50 per cent, of uncrystallisablc sugars in it. The
first anxiety of the miller is to keep this sugar
content as low as possible. The known uses of the
residue are:—
(1) Spraying it on to the pith of the cane and
using the two as a fuel.
(2) Feeding to cattle—(a) direct; (b) admixed
with some absorbent, such as sugar-cane pith, saw-
dust, peat, meal, etc.
(3) For the manufacture of white spirit, rum and'
methylated spirits.
(4) Applying to the canefields as a manure.
In England there is no waste of molasses, all being
absorbed by the alcohol industry or as a cattle
fodder. (1) The demand for alcohol (rum, methylated
spirits, etc.)is great there, owing to the many industries
in which alcohol is used as a solvent, etc., whereas we
either totally lack those industries or they are small. (2)
In England cattle are hand-fed to a great extent. Also
they are in stalls during the winter, and they then
require aind relish a body-heating food such as
molasses. In Australia cattle are not hand-fed, and,
owing to our climatic conditions, they neither re-
quire nor relish such a body-heating food. The
amount that they will eat or is good for them to
eat is restricted by the fact that it is very rich in
hydrocarbons (sugars) and requires a proportionate
amount of some protein food, such as beans.
But, even were we to find it an entirely suitable
food for cattle in Australia, we would still have to
fape the biggest problem of all, and that is the
question of transportation. To transport it by rail
requires either iron drums or special rolling-stock oi
the tank variety. These tanks are expensive and
difficult to handle, and would be demanded in ters o'
thousands in dry seasons and in only hundreds when
seasons were good. The consequence is that the
capital invested in them would have to earn ate
extraordinarily high rate oi interest in the ban
seasons to pay for their enforced idleness during
good times. This makes the cost of transport
prohibitive. An Australian firm erected a plant fo-'
making a molasses fodder, but found that the
business did not pay owing to the enormous fluctua-
tions in the demand. The firm also endeavored to
dispose profitably of molasses by pushing the sale
of methylated spirits for fuel and lighting pdiver,
but with little success.
It would be easier to transport the molasses ad-
mixed with an absorbent, but in that case you are
paying so much on the transport of a useless article
such as sawdust or sugar-cane pith. Also, in such
condition it is dangerous to store owing to liability
to spontaneous combustion. There is, however, move
chance of putting it on the . market in this latter
form than as ordinary molasses.
It is a method of transport that is needed to ex-
tend the use of molasses as a fddder, and not at all
a question of storage, as suggested by Mr. Bedford.
The use of molasses as a manure on the field
presents the same troubles of transport, handling
and application, and is, in consequence, hardly ever
resorted to now.
The manufacturer is well aware of the money
that lies in the discovery of a more profitable out-
let for his molasses, but at present he finds that
the best course is to use as much as he can for
the alcohol industry and as a fodder and to burn
the remainder, running as little to absolute waste
as possible. And what he does waste is not because
it is the fashion to run molasses to waste, nor
for a lack of storage capacity, but for the
want of a cheap and effective method of handling,
transporting and distributing the stuff, and so put-
ting it on the market at a price that will make it
acceptable.
Another Dud.
The Secret Commission Bill which came be-
fore the N. S. Wales Legislative Council last
week ;J a. mere gesture. It is a son L flung
for what it is worth, to the A’ - A’-vHh
the muck-rake who has been So K active'of
late. Legislation directed at secret commis-
sion-taking never has been effective. There
has been only one prosecution under the Vic-
torian Act. In 14 years there have been
but three under the Federal Act. In Eng-
land secret commissions are the rule rather
than the exception. In thousands of house-
holds the servants receive payments from
grocery shops, wine merchants, garages and
so on for foisting wares on their employers.
“Men of family” are paid in cash or "kind
for introducing wealthy friends to enterpris-
ing citizens who rely on taking the commis-
sion fee, and a bit over, out of the friends.
During the war it was usually easy to esti-
mate the financial position of a general; the
poorer he was the more he tended to have
youthful princes of finance (mostly Heb-
rew) on his staff—which, rightly considered,
is only another manifestation of the secret-
commission habit. Such being the popular
custom, it is not remarkable that the Lon-
don papers should rarely be free from accu-
sations of corruption on the larger scale, in-
volving occasionally even men of the status
of Lloyd George and Lord Reading —as
in the Marconi business. Lord Russell of
Killowen, Lord C.J. of England, spent
three years trying to devise a bill for an
Act to deal with a state of affairs which
has long been one of the stock national
scandals. In the end he admitted failure and
dropped the idea. One of the difficulties
everywhere is that the institute!- of proceed-
ings in such a matter has to figure in the
odious position of a common informer. There
are special reasons why few would care to
risk a role of the sort in N. S. Wales,
however blameless they happened to he.
Owing chiefly to a weak Bench, a type of
advocate is in evidence just now who lives
professionally by abusing his rights as a
cross-examiner. The most infamous crimes
are “put” to the unfortunate in the box as
a matter of course. There is no intention
to attempt! to prove them: they may not even
be in counsel’s instructions. Yet, at the
most, the offender merely gets some such
rebuke from the Judge as: “Don’t do that
again, Mr. Mudslinger, please.” The
natural effect is to make people with char-
acters to lose extremely shy of appearing
in contentious matters. A secret commission
suit is all contention and cross-swearing,
charge and counter-charge. And 99 times out
of a hundred nothing can be legally proved:
the whole affair ends in smoke—and smell.
More particularly smell.
The Dupe With the Hoe.
“The slogan of the farmers will be ‘production
first’ and the Federal organisation feels that the
question of the high cost of living can only be faced
by the greater production of foodstuff's. To this
end the cheapening and extending of production is
advocated by admitting into the Commonwealth free
of duty the tools of trade for primary production
coming from within the empire, together with the
abolition of the duty on jute goods such as corn
and chaff sacks and woolpaeks.”— From a summary of
the Federal election manifesto of the Farmers and
Settlers’ Association.
Thus the stereotyped spokesmen of the
“primary producers,” with a smattering of
book lore and a narrow outlook and a stock
of dried daily-paper platitudes, propose to
cut the throat of the Association in one
act. For the country has no time for a
party which alleges that it is a good tiling


T h . e Farmers & Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of A HStralia
Limited
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices: 360-6 Collins Street, Melbourne; Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
. CAPITAL -- - £100,000..
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the Land.
Fire, Workmen’s Compensation, Wool Clips (from Sheep’s back to Store), Motor Car, Personal Accident, Crops and .Stacks.
The Company has already over 5000 Shareholders. Every Farmer and Pastoralist should become a Shareholder m this soundly
established and progressive Company.
W. R. DIMOND, Managing Director.
to encourage Australian industry except in
agricultural tools and cornsacks and cliait-
bags. as regards which it wants to wreck
local industry in the hope of getting im-
ported goods at a cheaper rate. it the
country is persuaded that importation and
the wrecking of local industry is good as
regards ploughs and cliaffbags, the country
will be converted all round. Then there
Will be a shutting up of secondary industries,
and the people who pay for having the
farmer’s produce carried at ruinously cheap
rates on the railways, and are expected to
guarantee him f>s. a bushel for his wheat,
and go security for his road loans and rail-
way loans, and who buy so much of his pro-
duce, will disappear. And he will be left
to sell his wheat in a remote foreign market,
paying 6s. a bushel freight to' foreign profit-
eers, and living like a nude coolie on the
balance. The high cost of living can’t be
met by increased production of the half-
dozen foodstuffs to which the farmer usually
confines himself. The cause of it is not
foodstuffs, but the enormous prices charged
by foreign profiteers, for manufactured
goods; and the Farmers and Settlers, with
their imported-plougli-and-cornsack-and-chaff-
bag policy, want to give the country still
more into the hands of outside sharks and
cormorants. Australia is 20 times more in
need of increased manufactures than of in-
creased wheat-farming. It buys immense
quantities of foreign manufactures every
year, and, because of its dependence, prices
have been put up 100 or 200 or 300 or 400
per cent., and promise to remain up. On
the other hand it has, in most years, thanks
to much coddling, a superfluity of the plainer
kinds of foodstuffs, and is expected to pay a
bonus on them in the shape of absurdly
cheap railway rates, guaranteed prices
(which is the latest idea), exemption of the
farmer from many of the wage laws that
the manufacturer has to observe, and other
aids. The Australian manufacturer, for his
part, asks only for common justice and
civility. If the cost of living is high, lie did
very little to put it up—so little that in
many cases he made smaller profits during
war-time than before. The trouble, or 9o
per cent, of it, so far as manufactured goods
are concerned, arises from the importer,
foreign shipowner and foreign producer.
Therefore when the Farmers and Settlers
propose, in the name of cheapness, to dis-
courage the extension of local industry so
far as their own wants are concerned, the
manufacturer is bound to set them down as
either men who don’t know what they are
talking about, or quaint specimens of in-
gratitude.
Vida Goldstein and Sundries.
“Harrison O.” discourses: —
• Having decided that there is “greater scope for
her activities’’ in England, Vida Goldstein has
informed Melbourne friends of her intention of
remaining there, and there seems to he a moial of
some sort in the announcement. In Melbourne ■
lady has for long been the object of ridiCUioao
eduiatfoii ' ..'‘as raSie ','iuiculous. gibes. It was
her misfortune that in this country she was unique,
in England she will take her place among kindred
souls—Mrs. Pethick Lawrence, Elizabeth Robins,
Dr. Ethel Smytii and many others. Australia is
suspected of being a democratic country, but it has
mostly proved singularly intolerant of the educated
democrat, \\jjth the result that we have produced
few picturesque examples of this type. Men like
Wilfred Blunt (political agitator, owner of palaces
and breeder of Arab steeds), the lion. Bertrand
Russell (lecturer and late Fellow of Trinity Col-
lege, Cambridge, who writes learned volumes on
philosophy and was fined during the war under
the Defence of the Realm Act) and Cunningiiamk
Graham (essayist, socialist, and one of the best-
dressed men in London) fill each a niche of a sort;
but there are no suitable niches for people like
them in Australia, as 11. H. Champion (Vida
Goldstein’s brother-in-law, who, before coming to
Melbourne, was an English army officer, and during
the big London Dock Strike stood on a soapbox in
Hyde Park, wearing a frock coat and silk hat,
and addressed meetings in favor of the strikers) has
discovered. We prefer the bloke who is a democrat
by mere accident of birth to the man born with
a silver rattle in his fist, who, after breaking his
birth’s invidious political bar, retains a taste for
fine raiment and a knowledge of wines and cigars.
Vida Goldstein approximates to this type. Her
paternal grandpa was a Polish Jew, who helped in
the scrap for liberty, became a refugee in England
and later in Ireland. Her father, Colonel ,1. R.
Goldstein, was born at Cork, came to Australia as
a youth and married a Scawtch squatter’s daughter.
Daughter Vida had a dazzling career at the Scoteli-
byterian Ladies’ College, and was popular in sas-
siety. She was a good-looker, a crack tennis player,
handled a billiard cue skilfully, and could sit a
horse better than all but a few of her sex. But
she had the misfortune to inherit brains from her
mother and a spirit of revolt from that Polish
ancestor. The Vida who “took her place in society’’
is forgotten nowadays. She became addicted to
sociology, followed honest Charles Strong when
he founded the Australian Church, embraced suf-
fragism and dabbled in socialism. Her family
suffered in the financial slump ef 20 years ago, and
she started teaching’. Nobody worked harder to
raise women above the political level ot cows, and,
although several members of her sex could outshine
her on the Yarra Bank, her braininess, fluency and
personal attractiveness placed her in a class by her-
self when addressing a moderately cultivated
audience. She stood for both Senate and House of
Reps., but her refusal to bow to party josses, no
less than her injudicious action in being- born a
woman, prevented her having a chance of success.
In her spare time she has contributed to heavy-
weight English reviews, and has done much prac-
tical charitable work, but has never induced any
but a small minority to take her seriously in politics.
It is a good thing for Australia that it should not
take such ladies too seriously ; but it is a very bad
thing that she shouldn’t be taken seriously enough
for no better reason than that her opinions seem
to be in conflict with her clothes.
♦- —"
Octavius C. Beale returns to his muttons:
How the Australian farmer has been humbugged
and diddled he feels in his droughty hair when he
reads to-day’s cables (17/11/’l9) —“Australian
scoured merino at Bs. llld. one day jumped to
9s. Bd. the next. Greasies brought 7s. lid., and
upwards, in London.” Eighty-three pence per lb.
while the humble owner of the starveling jumbuck
received but 151 d. for the pitiful creature’s coat:
And the talk is of renewing this awful swindle by
THE NEW RULE.
DISTRICT VISITOR: “Are you married to this man Billings?”
THE HOUSEKEEPER: “No, ma'am, hut I have a mandate over him.”
extending the malevolent activities of the Wool Com-
mittee for another year or for five years!
Sir Arthur Goldfinch, chairman of the Wool
Council, declares (Board of Trade Journal, 1919,
pp. 765 et seq.) that they “reduced issue prices pre-
vious to the auctions” so as to stabilise (keep down)
prices of the raw material. He says that they
piled up stocks of wool of all grades a’nd rushed
them on the market so as to keep down the prices
of choice Australian wools, which are lamentably
short in supply. He says they “expected a sub-
stantial fall,” which, however, did not come. He
says the “demand for choice qualities (Australian
merino) is out-stripping the world supply,” and
“there is no hope that between us any ingenious
method can be discovered” whereby the quantity of
superior wool can be made to go round. The wool-
growers of India and of Britain wholly refused to
deliver their wool to their commercial exploiters:
and so did they of South Africa and Argentina.
Thus the only people at their mercy were the pro-
ducers of the splendid wools of Australasia, bound
hand and foot. But in his plaintive song Sir
Arthur Goldfinch sings, over and over again, how
“sorry I am to say that there is no evidence that any
advantage is being derived bj r consumers. The price
of manufactured goods is being ruled by the auction
prices.” And the Labor members of the Council
“disapproved of the Government issuing large quan-
tities of wool cheap if spinners and manufacturers
kept the whole benefit to themselves.” Very nice of
tho dear fellows, but not one of them has a word of
regret for the poor devils of Australian farmers
thus robbed in broad daylight 1
A friend of mine followed up the sale of his
season’s wool and says he “lost a whole fortune - ’
between what he got for it from the Wool Council
and its ultimate sale, in which he participated not
one penny. The cables tell us that Maoriland wool
in the grease was sold in America at 6s. per lb.,
in United States gold certificates, not depreciated
English currency. If that were “allocated” wool,
then the farmer participated not a cent ovei the
ridiculous price as appraised by the Government.
He would get less than one-fourth of its realised
value.
Australia could be on a splendid wicket, and the
more our unhappy farmers should “profiteer” on the
foreigner the better for all of us. Correctly stated,
they should be allowed to receive what the foreigner
in the open market is willing to give. The moral
is that the Australian should copy the Boer, the
Hindoo, the Spaniard and the British farmer, namely
hang on to his wool all he knows, or all he can, and
tell the Wool Committee to go to the Devil.
“Henry IIorsecollar” talks of Empire:—■
One of Hughes’s rather casual threats is a law
which will fall heavily on people who advocate the
dismemberment of the Empire. It is to be hoped
that he will make a reservation in the case of
Ireland. There are plenty of profoundly and ortho-
doxly ‘‘loyal” people who think that that one-four-
hundred-and-fortieth part of the area of the Empire
is a great deal more trouble than it is worth; and
who would gladly end a fuss which has lasted for
over 700 years, and seems good for 7000 more, by
making the place a republic and a full-blown mem-
ber of the League of Nations and giving it a clean
receipt and a blessing. That might even disqualify
Ryan for everything, as the non-naturalised son of
alien parents, and everybody would have a rest. But.
really, Britain’s position has become ridiculous. It
is the last representative of a worn-out policy—the
last labyrinthodon or Bullosaurus left over from
the Flood of change—the last white race which
holds or includes in its empire alien white races
whom it has conquered and annexed, and it does
this without asking whether they want to remain
annexed or not. It is a joke on the self-determina-
tion-of-nations principle—the last surviving joke.
Probably the Boers and French-Canadians, with their
large measure of self-government, are in the main
content with things as they stand, but there is a
growing impression that the Irish are not. In fact,
the impression has grown to be a huge nuisance. The
Irish say, in effect, that England may want to do
them good, but that they don’t want to be done
good to by anybody save themselves, and that, how-
ever much a man may like a bath, he hates to be
washed by strangers. One way and another, Hughes
will le biting off more than he can chew if he tries
to penalise theoretical and peaceful empire-dismem-
berers; also he will be sitting on a • wasp’s nest
and waking up the reposeful crocodile. There always
have been people who believe in amputation especi-
ally when mortification has set in, and enough things
have happened in Ireland to mortify any English-
man.
Woodrow Wilson threatens to veto the
U.S. acceptance of the--League covenant if
the Senate hacks the document about; and
that would be the most honest thing to do
in the circumstances. Because Wilson in-
sisted on the League scheme, under which
every member pledged itself to protect every
other member, the Allies consented to recog-
nise the Monroe doctrine. If, however,
reservations are made which relieve the
U.S.A. of all its serious obligations, then
at least the clause which requires the others
to recognise the Monroe doctrine ought to
be thrown out. The U.S.A. can't “reserve”
what it pleases while the others must stick
to all they said without Uncle Sam being
accused of playing with a two-headed penny.
A Gallery Hand recalls tedious nights:—
Some day public opinion will fix a retiring age
for politicians. In this election there are two or
three ancients who are admittedly in the twilight
of their faculties and have only received the official
endorsement on account of their fidelity to party.
One of these patriarchs is Bamford, who is now
approaching the eighties, and speaks with a waning
inteyect on almost every public question. Then
there is Chanter, almost equal in antiquity, whose
relaxed grip is most conspicuous in the Chair.
Spence, withdrawing from Darwin to butt hope-
lessly against Brennan in Batman, is a ruin around
which many pleasant memories gather. Archibald;
and West, who is always choking with some emotion
he cannot express j and Corser—all bid us remember
that, while men in less responsible jobs are auto-
matically retired, politicians can dodder on to the
end of their days.
By a narrow majority of three votes the
V lc. House of Elders passed the bill sent
up from the Assembly making detention in
a mental hospital for five years a ground for
divorce, and the measure will be law when
assented to. Baillieu, unofficial leader, held
that the proposal was not in harmony with
the for-better-or-for-worse vow, and when
the majority declared for the second reading
lie tried unsuccessfully to have 10 years’
insanity substituted for five. But he failed
there, too. Unquestionably there are cases
where, one of the parties being for all prac-
tical purposes dead, the bond ought to be
severed; but to the five years’ detention
ought to be added a certificate that recovery
is out of the question.
The nationalisation of industries is quite
a back number with the One Big' Union. It
lias advanced to the monopolisation of in-
dustries by small privileged groups of Big
Unionists, while that common trash, the
bulk of the nation, is shut out. For instance*
as regards coal-mines, it is proposed that
“the Gov-ernment should assume the owner-
ship of the coal-mining industry.” and lease
the lot to the union. The unionists would
then “distribute the products collectively in
such a way as they themselves might decide.”
The maintenance of an adequate or half-
adequate output, and the cutting off of sup-
plies to people suspected of not admiring
One Big Unionism, are matters that Willis
and his fellow Big Unionists are to decide,
the owners not having a look-in. As a mono-
polist and the mouthpiece of a privileged
caste Willis aims at a world’s record. The
nation never had a chance to realise what
an obscure reptile it is till barons of the
Willis type arose.
Irvine, C.J., speaking for the Vic. Supreme
Court Bench, has put in a strong protest
against Judges being asked to act as Royal
Commissioners to try issues that are more or
less political. The Blacker case, upon which
Cussen, J., sat, was cited as an instance.
Hogan. M.L.A., a prominent Oppositionist,
was the accuser and Robinson, Solicitor-
General, the accused. Lawson admitted that
the practice is objectionable; but Premiers
got that, far long ago. Irvine, when he was
head of a Government, tried the select-
committee plan, and it was such a body
under lawyer J. G. Duffy that inquired into
Prendergast’s accusation against M. Iv.
McKenzie, and found against McKenzie.
But, mostly, Goveniments know that under
the party system committees carry no weight
as judges. George Turner therefore appointed
Hartley Williams, J., to go into the facts
concerning the acquisition of a little place
at Mount Macedon for the Governor from
Dawvid Syme. The result was favorable to
Syme. They were Judges, too, who probed
the charges made against the political
knights Peacock (1904) and Taverner
(1905) and exonerated them. But when
Murray, Watt and co. attacked Bent, a
select committee, under the chairmanship of
Hutchinson (now Education Minister), had
to suffice. Tummas, by the way, won and
got his exes., too. Farther hack a Water
Commission sat on Deakin ; then, amid the
cheers of the House, Deakin sat on the
Commission. Nine times out of ten the
Board of Trade would be a proper authority
to make the inquiry—if it was a proper
Board of Trade. But Australia hasn’t seen
such a body yet.


&
Yr,
Formosa Silk Sports Suit.
FOR WEEK-END AND HOLIDAY WEAR
Formosa Silk is a relief from everyday heavy materials and
yet possesses a weight and retention Of shape that are
lacking in Tussore and other silks.
Its clean biscuit color does not readily show the dust : it
wears well; it launders perfectly..
In smart sports style, with two outside pockets with flaps
and buttons, three detachable pearl buttons at front, halt-
belt and vent at back. Trousers with side, hip and fob
pockets and permanent turn-up bottoms.
READY TO WEAR ... 80/-
Specially Attractive Value.
riease state height, chest, waist and inside leg measure-
ments. PEAPES’ PAY POSTAGE.
PE APES & CO., LTD.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 and 311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
18
- m
'tfr ' %
✓
1
Replaces
the
Foot
Brake.
I iLS.
MOORE Gear Boxes
and Brakes
for FORD Cars.
Westcott, Hazell & Co. Ltd.
311 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
To-day the United States and Japan are
arming as they never armed before. The
U.S. stands outside the League of Nations
in the sense that it rejects the clause by
which one member is to guarantee the terri-
tory of another — i.e., by which it promises
not to annex Australia or let anyone else
do so. Formerly it didn’t guarantee Aus-
tralia’s integrity because no one asked it to
do so. Now it doesn’t guarantee Australia
because, unlike France and Italy, it ex-
plicitly refuses to do so. Japan is under-
stood to be in the same position as the U.S.
So Australia has for neighbors the only two
undamaged Great Powers, the only two that
are arming to the teeth, and the only two
that reserve the right to seize it. It is
rather a curious time for the Labor party
to make a virtue of abolishing the compul-
sory training which it made a virtue, of
creating a few years ago.
The Farmers and Settlers issue a mani-
festo iu which, while they insist on freet/ade
in everything the farmer and settler wants,
they declare brazenly that “the full encour-
agement of all industries which the war
showed to be necessary will be advocated.”
Well, what the war showed was that a nation
must, to the utmost of its resources, learn to
supply itself with crcryything, unless it is
willing to be looted by rings, trusts and com-
bines. The farmers have lately had as much
freetrade in wheat-sacks as they had seven
years ago; but because they were at the
mercy of the foreign exploiter, including the
foreign shipowner, they have been paying
35d. for a gauzy thing that formerly would
have been dear at 4d.
Ryan, in his indictment of Australian
profiteers, cites four shocking examples, and
one of them is the Vacuum Oil Co., which
beat the other three put together. Now.
this eo. is registered in Australia ; but all
its huge capital except one solitary £lO
share is held in the United States, where its
[MICK PAUL, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
FALSTAFF RYAN.
"Call that the hacking of your friends! A
plague upon such hacking!"
policy is absolutely controlled. To use a
concern of that sort as the strongest argu-
ment with which to excite popular fury
against Australian concerns that supply a
vast amount of work here to white Aus-
tralians at union wages isn’t honest politics.
But it is Ryan politics.
Victoxda leads with a Government bill to
make six-o’clock pub closing, introduced as a
war measure, a permanent tiling. The opening
time is nine; and if it were made 11 and
the two hours were added at the other end
the public convenience would be better
served. But while Cold Tea says a halle-
lujah for the early closing, it says the other
thing when it notices that even “local” pro-
hibition or no-license can’t be brought in ar
next general election on a simple majority.
One grain of economy, at any rate, looks
like sprouting. K motion for the abolition
of State Governors was lost in the S.A.
Assembly by only one vote. And. as in
Westralia last month, probably the odd vote
was given out of friendship for the pre-
sent Ex.
From the Rubaiyat of Omar Ryhughes:—
The moving speaker prates as oft of yore,
His mouth is filled with promises galore
Of what he contemplates, intends, expects— 1
But once returned he dawdles as before.
Victoria hasn’t legalised the totalise tor
yet, there being an unusually large and in-
creasing proportion of Presbyterians in the
State. In fact, they are the only sect
which is steadily increasing. Victoria sac-
rifices about £400,000 a year of revenue by
this, but then it doesn’t want to “recognise
gambling,” and at the same time it recog-
nises gambling by stamping bookmakers’
tickets; It, is an awful lot of money to
waste for conscience sake and not have a
conscience after all, and if the amount was
earmarked to reduce the public debt the
horse might be flic saving of the country.
The official Labor cause in Victoria got a
nasty clout the other night from one
Nicholls, an apparently-doomed candidate
for Melbourne city, who spouts as a National
Laboritc. The boys were oadgering him
about the profiteers’ vote, whereupon
Nicholls remarked that a notorious profiteer
named John Wren provided sinews of war
for the Official Labor party. “Because he
contributes £250 a week out of the £lOOO a
week his pony courses take from the pockets
of the workers, you call John a jolly good
fellow!” roared the candidate. The meet-
ing hadn’t thought that “profiteering” was a
word of such wide significance.
Peacock told Vic. Parliament that an
interesting story will be revealed some day
as to the manner in which the rejection by
the Leg. Council of his Super-income Tax
Bill was arranged. The Bulletin doesn’t
know how it was arranged, but it can guess
in two the Club 'where it was arranged.
At the annual conference of the Water-
side Workers’ Federation, sitting lately at
Melbourne Trades Hall, delegate Burrowes
mentioned that there
are 000,000 trade
unionists in the Com-
monwealth and about
400.000 sympathisers,
and if each contri-
buted a penny a week
he figured that the
yearly income would
b e about £210,000.
With that much they
could begin to run
co-operative stores
that won Id abolish
the profiteer ; and Bur-
rowes invited his fel-
lows to start organis-
ing. But, of course,
they didn’t. They
decided to think over
it. Apparently the
men who do most of
the talking in the
movement are more
interested in keeping
things to throw verbal bricks at than in
building something that won’t call for ver-
bal bricks.
In one respect they are very much alike.
The other day Hughes jeered at Ryan for
seeking a safe seat, and Ryan countered with
the probable canard that Willie was employ-
ing his Commonwealth police as electioneer-
ing agents. At this Hughes’s language grew
Chesterfieldian, and there was a graceful
allusion to the men who “had sprung up like
maggots on a dunghill over-night spending
their whole time spattering him with the
filth with which they were filled.” The only
comfort that Australia can draw from this
hazy violence is the hope that the two mud-
magnates will grow exhausted before the
13th and allow a period of peaceful medita-
tion on the issues before the country.
The result of the Swan Hill (Vic.) by-
election, to fill the Assembly seat vacated by
Peter Stewart. Y.F.U. Federal candidate for
Wimmera, indicates that the Mallee knows
what it wants. The farmers’ candidate,
Frank Old, who belongs to a family long
settled in the Swan Hill district, was re-
turned unopposed. The North-Western
seat in the Leg. Council, emptied by V.F.U.
Senate candidate R. B. Rees, has also been
occupied by an unopposed Farmers’ man—
William Crockett, who tickles the sod at
Curyo, a village beyond Swan Hill on the
now closely-settled track to Mildura.
According to the strenuous Archbishop
Mannix (Sydney Sun. 23/11/’l9) :
lie had been approached on a certain occasion by
a Minister of the Crown who came from the Prime-
Minister to find out what help he would give in
order to carry out Mr. Hughes's English-made
politics. ... When that Minister came to him he re-
ceived such a reception that he forgot to deliver ins
message.
And quite possibly the poor man only wanted
to give a donation to the church, and was
driven off the premises before he had a
chance to explain, in consequence of which
he fled and lost the money -at two-up. How
did the good but explosive archbishop know
what the message was when the messenger
wasn’t allowed to deliver it? He didn’t
X-ray the man, surely?
Toombs, an ex-M.L.A. of N. S. Wales.
railing at Hughes for
not finding £25.000,000
cash for the Diggers,
says he would got it
in five minutes. “The
profiteers have been
making 20 p.e.—that’s
where to get it.” Sur-
prising that no one
thought of that before.
Profiteers, as every-
body knows, have a
sack in the corner
whi c h the y throw
their extortionate
profits into. AH
Toombs has to do is
to wheel a barrow
round and collect (lie
money. Anybody who
is a profiteer will, of
course, admit it. If
lie doesn’t Toombs will
find out if he makes
20 p.c. or not. Appa-
rently Toombs has an
idea that anybody
who makes 20 p.c. is
a profiteer. Yet if a
multitude of. small
traders didn’t make 20
p.c. they would starve.
There is profiteering;
but it is a moot point
whether the Toombs
person is a greater ass
when he thinks that
everybody who makes
20 p.c. is a profiteer,
or when he thinks
that the profiteer
always keeps his profits in cash.
A mass meeting at Perth, where there is
always something doing, resolved that the war
bonus of £25,000,000 must be paid in cash
before the elections, otherwise “there will be
trouble,” As there is no Parliament to vote
the money, and Hughes can’t get it except by
stealing it, and the bank managers and others
would call in the police if he tried that, and it
isn't there to steal in any case, either there
will just have to be trouble or somebody
will have to get more sense.
James Fenton, who wants to be re-elected
as Labor M.H.R. for Maribyrnong (Vic.),
has a strong claim to be heard during the
present uproar. Speaking at Coburg lie said
that .this year’s election would be a “bread-
and-butter” one above everything, and lie
proceeded to indicate his own remedy for
the local worker’s gloomy outlook. He
attributes the prevailing lack of employment
to “the ineffectiveness of the tariff.” His
party, however, is “opposed to the establish-
ment of a manufacturing aristocracy”; but
Fenton himself is apparently hopeful of
showing that it is better that" a few should
have cake than that the multitude should be
without bread. AN'omebody is going to have
cake, anyway. The question is whether he
shall be Australian or Jap. At present he
is anybody blit Australian —and will con-
tinue to be until the tariff wall is heightened.
Hughes proposes now, in a vague, whirling
way. to make it a crime to advocate the dis-
memberment of the Empire. That’s where
the Freetraders ought to howl in protest;
for their god Cobden declared frankly that
he wanted to get rid of the “blasted colonies.”
“Bananalander” on Wully Kidston’s career:
I don’t agree at all with The Bulletin’s estimate
of Kidston that he “put a heavy brake on Banana-
land’s expenditure at a time when a brake was
almost as much needed as it is to-day.” Morgan
and Kidston displaced Philp in 1903, on the ground
that the latter was grossly incompetent in his finan-
cial management.. Philp’s deficits were actually due
not so much to laxity in expenditure as to a gigantic
falling away in,revenue. His railway revenue alone
declined half a million in one year, owing to drought.
His successors did not reduce the expenditure at all, but
they kept it down for, a year or two to Philp’s level
—and that was the extent of their financial virtue.
After Morgan resigned and Kidston coalesced with
the Tories, the new Government gave proof of its
genuineness in the cause of economical statecraft
by going on the greatest bender ever known up to
that time in Queensland history. Five millions in
loan and trust funds were shovelled out in one year
by the politician who had denounced Philp as a
spendthrift, and the latter had the melancholy
pleasure of rising in the Assembly and wanting to
know how it was that he who had run the State on
comparatively sane and sober lines had been driven
out of office to make room for a boomster Government
of the first water. So bad were things that Arthur
Morgan, a stickler for etiquette if ever there was
one, stepped down from his chair in the Leg.
Council and solemnly warned the State that ruin
was ahead if no check were placed on the unpre-
cedented extravagance of the Kidston regime. But
Wullv was out for popularity and Queensland had to
pay for if.
Finding he hadn’t the numbers, Wynne
let the movement, under his leadership,. for
displacing Lawson, the Vie. Premier, fizzle
out. All the barracking and leg-pulling of
the Age went for nought. Wynne probably
recalled how Higgins. .T.. when State mem-
[Frank Jessup, 5 Cary-street, Leichhardt.]
WHO OWNS THE BABY, ANYWAY?
Labor is opposing the Referendum proposals. The
“Progressives” are fighting them. The Nationalists
are forgetting them.
her for Geelong 20 years ago, was egged on
in much the same way to upset Allan
McLean. Higgins went, the length of giving
notice of a no-confidence motion, but with-
drew it next day when he found that the
Opposition, under George Turner, was dis-
inclined to help. The Wynne contingent was
too cautious to walk into the same bog.
Lemmon is testing the feeling of the Vic.
Leg. Assembly on the two-year-old doctors-
and-lodges dispute by moving new clauses
in the Health Bill providing for State doc-
tors for lodges. He proposes that the lodges
shall pay a rate per member to be fixed by
the Health Commission or by the Governor-
in-Council. But why drag in the lodges?
Shipping notes: —
A new Chinese-owned steamship co. is starting on
the run between Australia and Eastern Asia to
collect big freights from the Australian who is
everybody’s dog.
A new Canadian-owned steamship co. is starting
to collect huge freights from Australians for bring-
ing them American goods that they should make
themselves.
The prospects of squeezing big money from the
fool Australian and others like him are considered so
good that P. and O. £lOO shares sold lately at £690.
.Japan has just launched the greatest battleship
ever known, and is building others as a sign of
peace and disarmament.
Australia is busy floating loans.
After the Forest Commission (Vic.) had
chosen J. It. Paterson, town clerk of Bal-
larat East, as its secretary, the Returned
Soldiers League kicked so hard because a
soldier-applicant had been passed over that
the Government declined to confirm the ap-
pointment. _ The Commission says that none
of the soldier-candidates was nearly so good
as Paterson, and that it will be handicapped
with a less efficient man, and Paterson, for
his part', says that a returned man was to
take bis place at Ballarat. When the pro-
mised Preference Bill is passed it will be
possible to call for applications from sol-
diers only for V ic. Government jobs At
present, apparently, it isn’t.
i James Edmond and J. B. Dailey, 214 Geor«-e-
-street, Sydney; and Edmund Fisher, Old Exchange
Melbourne..! B ’


[Norman Lindsay. Springwood, N.S.W.]
MOSES STRIKES THE ROCK.
(The excited person on the far peak is the rival Moses who says he could make it beer.)


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
Registered
<BHAS>
Brand.
Producers of Lead in the following forms — ~
Refined Lead, Corroding Lead, Assay Lead ( Bar and Granulated),
Super-refined Lead. Chemical Lead.
Also of—
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated), Spelter,
and the following Alloys and Metallic Product* —
Antimonial Lead, Linotype Metal, Litharge (Industrial and Assay),
Bearing Metals. Leaded Zinc Pigments, Blue Powder.
Purchasers on a Specially Favorable Tariff of Silicious Silver-Lead Ores, Slags, etc.,
containing Silver and Lead. Lead Drosses. Zinc Drosses.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE—
II. L. SHACK ELL. Secretary.
LONDON OFFICE: PINNERS HALL. AUSTIN FRIARS, E.C. 2
A. .1. SMITH. London Secretary.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 25 O'CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY—
R. N. KIIIK (Agent).
ADELAIDE OFFICE: 62 BROOK MAN’S BUILDING, ADELAIDE—
C. S. STOKES (Agent).
SMELTING WORKS. PORT PIEIE. S.A.
COKE WORKS. BELLAMBI. N.S.W.
"PIONEER” Leather Belting
The most efficient and economical power transmitter.
SOLF. .
MAKERS
J. C. LUDOWICI <a SON LTD.,
PIONEER WORKS, 117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
ELECTRIC STEEL
“ THE STEEL OF THE FUTURE.”
We make a Feature of Specially Heat-treated Steel Castings for Ore
Crusher and Rock Breaker Parts. Battery and Mill Liners. Stamper
Shoes and Dies, Cams, Heads, Tappets, Ring Dies. Tramway Tyres.
Toughened Steel Truck Wheels. We can supply any quality hitherto
imported. 1
ALL STAGES OF MANUFACTURE UNDER MODERN SCIENTIFIC CONTROL.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.,
Telegraphic Address: -‘Electric Steel.” ALEXANDRIA. SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The National Insurance Company of
New Zealand:—
Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Sept., £ £ £■ £ £
1906. . 43,026 15 p.c.= 15,000 23,626 238,240
1907.. 26,090 15 ~., 15.000 11,096 249,339
1908.. 30,591 15 ~ ~ 15,.000 15,591 204,930
1909.. 33.666 15 „ 15,000 8234 15,432 230,362
1910.. 40,036 171 ~„ 17,500 22.536 302,898
1911.. 38.390 20 ~ ~20,000 18,390 821.238
1912.. 43,412 25 ~ ~25,000 18,412 339,700
1913.. 52,209 26 ~ ~25,000 27,209 366,909
1914.. 35,064 25 ~,,25,000 10,664 377,573
1915.. 42,347 25 ~ ~25,000 17,347 394,920
1916. . 48,511 25 ~ „ 25,000 23,511 418,431
Transferred to Capital. £lOO,OOO •• 318,431
1917. . 57,633 12fp.c -25,000 32,633 351,064
1918.. 56,710 15“ ~„ 30,000 26,710 377,77 1
1919.. 45,655 15 ~ ~30,000 15,655 393,429
After two very fat years, in which risky
marine business went all the eo.’s way—
though it might easily have gone otherwise
had the British Navy been less efficient —
the results for the past term were obtained
on a basis more like those on which the
profits of pre-submarine days were earned.
Underwriting surpluses for the past six years
have moved in this way: 1914, 9.6 p.c. of net
premiums; 1915, 12.7 p.c.; 1916, i 4.0 p.c.;
1917, 19.7 p.c.; 1918, 23.6 p.c.; 1919, 12.5
p.c. Actually there was a heavier falling-off
in profits during the past year than the
table shows, for £lO,OOO was clipped from
the 1918 surplus to provide for taxation, and
£2500 of that amount has been drawn op to
meet last year’s Treasury demands. As-
suming that the special appropriation made
last year will not be called upon to meet
any further taxation on that year’s opera-
tions, then the net profits for the two years
would be more accurately sta al as; 1918,
£66,i 10 ; 1919, £43,155. This slump is
somewhat surprising considering that the
last run began on October 1, 1918, and that
owing to the collapse of Wilhelm there must
then have been the tail-end of a considerable
amount of war-risk business on the hooks
which should have proved extremely profit-
able. while the big shipping movemeuts since
might have been expected to help more than
the accounts show. The directors’ report
does not throw any light on the year’s
operations, but is merely confined to dis-
tributing the surplus.
The National’s underwriting record over
many years does not, show nearly so great
an expansion as that of many other locally-
owned offices; —
Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1895. . £82,935 £49.052 £26,560 59.2 p.c. 32.0p.c.
1900.. 102,264 54,991 29,950 53.8',, 29.4 „
1905.. 107,648 58,996 36,402 54.8 „ 33.8 „
1910.. 126,602 60,682 44,157 47.8 „ 34.9 „
1914.. 148.242 78,496 55,709 52.9 „ 37.5 ~
1915.. 153,598 78,262 55,934 50.9,, 36.4,,
1916. . 161,932 79,333 59,052 49.0 „ 36.5 ~
1917.. 157,455 65,065 61,392 41.8 „ 39.0„
1918.. 167,817 64,695 63,765 38.5 „ 37.9 ~
1919.. 174,749 84,302 68,739 48.2 „ 39.3 „
Chiefly because this co.’s business has not
bounded ahead with any great rapidity the
strength of its resources compared with its
risks has been well maintained without get-
tirg in any further capital from share-
holders. After paying current divs. there
were reserves of £393,425); so. adding paid
capital, there were funds of £593,429, equal
to over 339 p.c. of last year’s net premiums.
Since 150 p.c. is considered a reasonably
safe proportion, the National of Maoriland
thus affords unusually strong protection to
its policy-holders. Apart from incoming pre-
miums, the co. began its new term w r ith cash
and securities sufficient to meet over seven
times last year’s record volume of losses.
As a further backing to its policies, there is
the £BOO.OOO of subscribed but uncalled
capital which shareholders' are liable to be
asked to provide if the worst should happen.
Still, the protection which an insurance
co. can offer its policy-holders depends on
more than the proportion of funds to risks.
If those funds are poorly invested the
strength might easily be more apparent than
‘real. A few years ago the National’s Board
had a weakness for mortgages—only as re-
cently as 1915 practically £7O of every £lOO
of funds were out on mortgage—and this
class of investment, though more profitable
than some other lines, is not readily con-
vertible into cash when conditions are not
favorable; and they never are favorable
when insurance cos. want a lot of money in
a hurry. The opportunities tp invest in
War I.oans, however, have changed the whole
appearance of the National’s balance-sheet.
Four years ago, unless anything was hidden
among the handful of debentures, there were
no Government securities on the books ; but
at September SO last almost one-third of all
assets was War Loan. Here is a more de-
tailed comparison:—
A . A
t \ I \
1915. p.c. 1919. p.c.
Mortgages . ,£371,3G5 69.7 £238,309 37.1
Debentures .. 49,400 9.3 52,999 8.3
Cash & )Var Loan 102,121 19.1 339,869 53.1
Premises.. .. 9,800 1.9 9,800 1.5
£532,686 100.0 £640,977 100.0
A mere glance at the dividend column of
the first table is sufficient to show how very
well shareholders have done. Nowadays they
are receiving a 30 p.c. return on the money
they have actually put into the concern, and
over two-thirds of the dividend distribu-
tions are provided by net interest earnings.
* * * *
Harrison, Jones and Devlin, Ltd.,
woolbrokers, etc. (Sydney) :
Written To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1907. .£17,767 7 p.c.= £7,000 £5OOO £5,767 £30,998
1908.. 13,568 7 .. „ 7,000 3000 3,568 34,566
1909.. 17,721 8 ~ „ 8,000 9.721 44,287
1910.. 23,295 10 „ „ 10 000 13,295 57,582
1911.. 20 074 10 „ „ 10,000 - 10,074 67,656
1912.. 15,019 10 „ „ 10,000 8,019 75,675
1913.. 18,559 10 „ „ 10,000 8,559 84,234
1914.. 15 198 10 ~ „ 10,000 5,198 89,432
1915.. 13,181 10 „ .. 10,000 3,181 92,613
1916.. 14,154 10 „ „ 10 000 -- 4,154 96,767
1917.. 15 619 10 „ .. 10,000 5,619 102,386
1918.. 15,496 10 „ „ 10,000 8,496 110,882
1919.. 23,650 10 ~ „ 10,000 13,650 124,532
For 10 years 10 p.c. p.a. has been paid
regularly, but reserves have meantime been
built up with such rapidity—they now
exceed the paid capital of £lOO,OOO by
£24.532 —that, 12 months ago, The Bul-
letin hinted that if everything continued
to go right shareholders might hope for
something. A couple of weeks ago the
directors ‘made a move to give shareholders
the something by seeking permission to
capitalise a trifle of £15,000 to the credit
of a reserve for equalisation of dividends.
The proposed method of issuing the bonus
shares, however, did not. meet with the appro-
val of some shareholders, and a poll is to
be taken at an extraordinary meeting on
November 28. Paid capital for at least a
quarter of a century has remained at
£lOO,OO0 —50,0CX) shares fully paid to £1
and 100.000 £1 shares paid to 10 s. The
directors propose that 15,000 fully-paid bonus
shares be distributed in the proportion of
three for every 20 fully-paids and three for
every 40 contribs. From a dividend point
of view this allotment is all right, but
though the proposed capitalisation is very
small, and the effect on the liability of the
“B” shareholders may be trifling, it creates
a dangerous precedent. The tapping of re-
serves to provide fully-paid shares means a
weakening of the guarantee that, the contribs.
will not be asked to produce the uncalled
capital in case of trouble. It is quite true
that the reserves remain in the business
after they have been converted into capital:
but once they have been thus converted they
are not readily available for writing off in
case of , depreciation of securities. Instead,
that depreciation would be met by calling up
the unpaid 10s. first.
It has been suggested that one way out
of the difficulty would be to get in the un-
called capital, making all shares fully-paid,
and then make the bonus distribution. But
the management says that it would have no
use for the additional £50,000 which would
thus flow in, and that, anyhow, on a capital
enlarged to that extent a continuance of 10
p.c. divs. would be threatened. Also, seeing
that dividend distributions are calculated
on capital and not on so much per share,
the 10s. paids can hardly expect, as several
holders have demanded, that the bonus issue
be made on a share basis. Probably the
fairer method would be to use the £7500
available for each class of shareholders to
(1) provide fully-paids for the present paid-
ups; and (2) reduce the liability on the
contribs. by Is. 6d. The latter class would
thus be compensated for their loss of pro-
tecting reserves by having their shares paid
to 11s. 6d. instead of 10s. Or, seeing that
after at least a quarter of a century the
management now declares that it has no
use for the uncalled capital, a re-arrange-
ment scheme which ivould convert all shares
to the same fully-paid denomination might
be effected. Whatever is done there will
have to be give and take on both sides.
The w T ool-pooling scheme and the Federal
Government's financing arrangements have
suited the agency cos. very well. High
prices have given commission earnings
a big lift, and H., J. and D.’s profits
for the past year were the best it has yet
disclosed —equal to 234 p.c. of paid capital.
But it was not the co.’s best year, for the
£23,650 profits revealed were comparatively
not so good as the £23.205 of 1910. when the
management had £0 7 .000 less reserves to
work for it. Conditions in the trade are
still abnormal, as the volume of liabilities
and of book debts shows: —
1900. 1914. 1918. 1919.
Mortgages ..£78,000 £45,000 £45,000 £45,000
Other debts .. 115,605 66,900 106,413 189,436
Freeholds .. 153,500 143,113 146,113 149,894
Leaseholds .. 10,486 12,186 18,108
Advances, etc... 173,082 153,733 181,034 268,466
War Loan 25,962 30,000
A lot of Government money is, no doubt,
involved in those figures. Going back to
1914, liabilities have expanded by £122,530.
On the other side “amounts due to the eo.”
have grown by £114,733, while meantime
£30.000 has been invested in War Loan, and
an additional £14.403 has gone into premises,
extensions having been found necessary to
provide accommodation for the big accumu-
lations for which no shipping space could be
found. Over the war period the co. has
thus visibly improved its position by £30.000
after paying in divs. an amount equal to
half of the paid capital. Not unlikely the
management has also taken advantage of
the abnormal conditions to provide a prop
or two for some of its weaker assets.
* * * *
J. Fielding and Co., Ltd., cardboard-box,
carton and corrugated-fibre container manu-
facturers and printers (Sydney). The co.
began with £5OOO of its capital represented
by goodwill:—-
Towards
Sept., Net Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
New share premiums. . £32 £4968
1911.. £2,750 lOp.c. =£1577 1173 3795
New share premiums.. 38 3757
1912.. 3,018 10 p.c. = 1801 1217 2540
1913.. 2,268 8 „ „ 1445 823 1717
New share premiums. . 250 1467
1914. . 2,441 8 p.c. = 1445 996 471
Reserves.
1915.. 2,456 8 ~ „ 1685 771 300
lfhe.. 3,714 8 „ „ 1925 1789 2089
Deficit.
Reserves capitalised, £7000.. 4911
1917.. 4,768 8 p.c. = 2567 2201 2710
Reserves.
1918.. 12,167 15 „ „ 5407 6760 4050
1919.. 9,700 10 „ „ 4000 5760 9810
Apart from the old proprietors and a few
of their friends nobody was much interested
when, in 1910, this co. was floated on the
strength of the vendors’ “confident expecta-
tions’’ that with additional funds output
could be increased at least 25 p.c., bringing
it up to £20,000, and that net profits of not
less than 15 p.c. p.a. could be earned on a
paid capital of £20,000. The co. did well
from' the jump, and "as funds ’ became
available managing-director a. Fielding set
about extending and modernising the
machinery. War conditions created new
opportunities for the industry, and the man-
agement has been able to make the most of
them. Tin-plates being unobtainable, mer-
chants had to turn to other methods of pack-
ing, and this co. was able to meet their re-
quirements with its corrugated-fibre plant,
meantime demonstrating that this class of
container was more economical and safer for
many lines which had previously gone into
wooden cases, and provided greater protec-
tion against pilfering. The war also gave
the local confectionery industry a big lift,
resulting in huge orders for high-class pack-
ings.
When the management saw the possibility
of a flood of business, it plunged in acquir-
ing stocks, and was fortunate in getting well
ahead of market rises. These timely pur-
chases have also helped to build up the very
fine profits disclosed for the past two years
together equal to two-thirds of the capital
actually put up by shareholders. Besides
the net profits shown in the table there have
also been additions to specific reserves, and
the total to the credit of this fund (£.'•977)
has not been included in the reserves shown
above, since apparently a big slice repre-
sents an accumulation which is a set-off
against depreciation of machinery, etc.
Going back to 1914 there have been consider-
able expansions in all the balance-sheet
figures:— ;
1914. 1919.
Liabilities .. ..£l7lB £47,982
•Premises.. .. .. 9057 31,324
Plant, etc. .. .. 5416 21,230
Stock 5652 42,416
Rook debts .. . . 4385 17,394
Cash and War Loan . . 324 2,384
Though £12.057 of fresh capital has been got
in since 1914, to finance extensions and
stocks the co. has gone heavily into debt, but
some of this load will be shifted when stocks
are got down to normal. However, the sur-
plus of liquid assets over liabilities has been
built up from £8043 to £14,212 in five years.
Meantime £3B,Obi has been tacked to the
book value of premises and plant. So the
improvement, on book values, has been
£31.593, though taxation may take some-
thing out of that, while the depreciation re-
serve has also to be considered, though owing
to present appreciated values the co.’s
plant may be worth all it is shown at in
the books. Stocks are apparently well pro-
tected, having been “listed at cost or market
value, whichever is the lower.” What was
the actual extent to which the war period
helped the co. The Bulletin cannot ascer*
tain accurately, but there certainly has been
a big improvement, after paying goodclm-
dends. Present paid capital is £40,000, o
which £lOOO represents a bonus issue made
three years ago. *
The Federal Palace Hotel, Ltd. (Mel-
bourne) Written To Be- Re-
Julv, Profits. Dividends Off. serves, serves.
1907. . £2458 10} p.c.= £1460 £993 £11,13.)
\lt: ISlo lot ;;;; iiB*f“S ™
1910.. 3963 144 „ „ 1953 1000 1010 5„104
1911.. 4913 141 „ „ 1953 290;. 8,129
1912.. 6203 21} „„ 2930 3273 11,40-
191 S 5124 21 i ~ 2930 2194
1914*/. 4927 21* „ „ *2930 1997 15,093
1915.. 2126 Nil “* 2 * 2 ®
1916.. 3871 21} p.c. = 2930 941 18,000
1917.. 2858 14 A„„ 1903 900 19,..6.
1918.. 3809 21} „ 2930 8(9 20,444
1919.. 3952 21} „„ 2930 1022 21,460
That dividend column would suggest that
shareholders are on a very sweet thing, par-
ticularly when the surpluses available attev
making the distributions are considered.
But the return is not all it looks. The co.
got into business in 1884, and its capital
was at one time £122,752 in shares paid to
195., besides which it had £60,000 of bor-
rowed money. When the dust cleared alter
the big smash the co. found that, on account
of depreciated values, it had lost £109,98b
of its capital. So 17s. per share was written
off. Paid capital is now £13,493, 1s d.
per share having since been got in on the
whole of the live shares, except 270 which
are paid to 3s. Liabilities are still very
heavy in proportion to capital, the property
mortgage amounting to £33,024. The load
of debt is, however, being gradually shifted,
as this comparison shows: —
1903. 1913. 1918. 1919.
Liabilities. . . . £59,932 £39,904 £36,151 £35,607
Liquid assets .. 2,752 3,955 6,484 7,249
Excess liabilities. . £57,180 £35,949 £29,667 £28,358
Instead of writing down assets as profits are
used to repay the bank, each year’s con-
tribution is tacked to a “redemption”
account. This may, by and bye, he used to
replace some of the lost capital if the values
of fixed assets are what they are shown at
in the books, which is probable. During
recent years the co. has not been doing so
well as it did just prior to the war, but
the latest figures are good considering the
’tin epidemic and the difficulties of over-
coming continually increasing costs. There
are now net assets with a book value of
almost os. to represent each 2s. lid. of share
capital, but the market is paying approx-
imately 7s. (ex div.).
British Tobacco Co. (Aus.), Ltd., meets
on Nov. 28 to discuss the question of increas-
ing capital to six millions by the
creation of 500,000 new £1 ordinaries. The
directors state that increases in cost of leaf
and other stocks “make it imperative that
the capital be increased.” Only 230,515
shares remain to be issued, and the manage-
ment wants ‘to put out 379,447. As these are
to be offered at par (one new for every ten
old) and 12 p.c. divs. are regularly paid,
there is not likely to be any difficulty in
raising the funds. There is also a proposal
to “bring the Articles up-to-date” by adding a
clause which will permit of cash or share
bonuses being distributed to ordinaries from
reserves. Tile directors say they “have no
immediate intention of exercising any rights
conferred by this new Article.” Nevertheless
the request leaves the feeling that, though the
margin of profit in excess of the div. distri-
butions in this holding eo. is slender, the
directors at least have hopes that something
may be hatched some time or other. The
directors also seek power to extend the issue
of shares to employees with a limit of 25,000
at not less than par.
Sniders and Abrahams Pty., Ltd.,. Mel-
bourne cigar and cigarette manufacturers,
are turning the business over to a public co.
with a nominal capital of £200,000 —100,000
8 p.c. cum. prefs. of £1 each and 200,000 10s.
ordinaries. The old proprietors are to be
allotted 124,902 fully-paid ordinaries, the
balance of these shares being held in reserve ;
while the public is being invited to take
up 40,000 prefs. paid to £l. Accountants
P. P. Cook and Tomlins declare that at
July 31 last there were surplus net assets
totalling £57,247, with plant and machinery
written down well below actual values. This
and goodwill (£5204) are being paid in
shares, no cash consideration whatever being-
included in the purchase. What matters most
is the security for the pref. capital which
is being got in, and the chances of the co.
paying S p.c. regularly. After the Edward
D.vason Pty. has taken its underwriting cut
of Is. per share, and 4d. has been paid to
the brokers, there will be net tangible as-
sets of' approximately £94,580 to meet the
prefs.’ £40,000. The S p.c. div. on this issue
will call for £3200 per annum, and as over
the past 10 years the old proprietary has
averaged a net profit of £7401 each year,
everything looks all right. In fact, consider-
ing the security offering, S p.c. is a liberal
dividend rate.


A NEW ELECTRICAL DEVELOPMENT.
IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT.
The British Westing'house
Electric <SL Mfg'. Co. Ltd.
will henceforth be known and carry on business as
METROPOLITAN-VICKERS
ELECTRICAL CO. LTD.
AUSTRALIAN OFFICES:
MELBOURNE: 84 William Street. SYDNEY: 12 Martin Place.
AGENTS:—ELDER SMITH & CO., LTD.,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane.
METROPOLIT AN-VICKERS ELECTRICAL CO., LTD.,
Trafford Park, Manchester.
The advantage of having battery charging current
on tap in the home garage is now within the react
of every motorist. The G.E. Mercury Arc Batteri
Charger makes any ordinary lighting circuit a sourcf
of energy for starting, lighting, and ignition bat-
teries. Its cost is a mere trifle compared with the
convenience and economy of home charging. Ait
overnight boosting charge every few weeks will not
only increase the efficiency of a battery, but will
also lengthen the life of the plates. You should
get one of these outfits. Australian General Electric
Company, Wentworth Avenue, Sydney ; and corner ol
Queen and Little Collins Streets, Melbourne. — Advt.
* * * * -
Your live stock need pure drinking water just as
much as humans do. See they get it! Fall in
line with the big cattle salesmen—leading water-
supply boards, town councils and stations—use
Aluminoferric for purifying the water in your wells,
dams and tanks. Aluminoferric quickly causes all
impurities to precipitate, leaving the water clear,
fresh and wholesome. Sold by storekeepers the
country over. Full particulars and prices free from
William Adams & Co. Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth. —-Advt." [1
The latest copper-smelting plant to be erected in
Australia is that of the Mount Cuthbert Company
in North Queensland. It consists of buildings, power-
plant with boilers, generating sets and blowers,
blast furnace, copper converters and converter re-
fining plant, blister gathering and cleaning si;ed,
also steel bins for ore and coke. Wherever possible
the plant is electrically driven. The whole of the
plant was supplied by the Austral Otis Engineering
Co. of Melbourne, who have made numerous smelting
plants working in Australia at present.—Advt. [2
* * * *
Pioneer Wood Stave Pipe.—Copy of letter from
The Central lied, White and Blue Mining Co., Ben-
digo. 19th February, 1919: “Dear Sir,—Replying to
your letter of the 13th inst., we have much pleasure
in stating that the wood piping purchased from you
in 1912 is giving every satisfaction and is in every
way suitable for the work. The maintenance charges
are approximately nil. (Sgd.) McColl, Rankin and
Stanistreet, Managers.” Send for our illustrated
catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe Company, Ltd.
(H. 0.), Burns Bay Road, Longueville, N.S.W." Con-
tractors to all State Governments. — Advt.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink's Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723.—Advt.
The manufacture of ‘Skandia” Crude Oil Engines
in Australia, both marine and industrial types, is
receiving the recognition that the enterprise deserves.
The Federal Government has placed an order for a
large marine set, and their example has been followed
by several of the largest trading firms in Australia,
Tasmania, the Pacific Islands and Dutch East Indies.
The workmanship of the Australian “Skandia” com-
pares with any imported engine on the market.
Write Nelson & Robertson, Loftus Street, Svdfiev.—
Advt.
In common with the general progress in engineer-
ing, marked improvements have recently been made
in the design of steam engines. A patented design
of “Uniflow” Steam Engine is now being made by
Messrs. Robey and Co., Ltd., Lincoln, England.
Highest effiiciency and economy of steam con-
sumption is obtained with simplicity of construction
and low upkeep costs, and the 'results obtained
from this new type of engine have been so marked
as to place the ordinary type of compound engine
quite out of date, the manufacture of which has
been abandoned. Full particulars of the “Robey”
Patent Cniflow Engine can be obtained from the
agents, Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Circular Quav,
Sydney. Queensland inquiries; The Australian
Machinery Co., 218-220 Mary Street, Brisbane.
—Advt.
* * * * •
IDEAS. Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coluson k Co., 483 Collins Street. Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirtv vears' practice. Write
us for Inventors' Guide.— Advt.
* ♦ * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s k Oel-tling’s
Balances, Weights. Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. IT. B. Selbv k Co.,
Ltd. 260 George Street (between Hunter anil Bond
Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street, M^b.— Advt.
T. IT. Palmer, 8.E., Fe!. Chem. Soc., etc., consult-
mg . engineer, valuing, organising, technical advice,
mining, metallurgy, flotation and selective flotation
processes. Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 Pitt
Street, Sydney. Cables and Telegrams: “Remlap,
Melbourne.”— Advt,
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Loss of Profits
Insure in
Th ‘ 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital £250,000
Subscribed Capital .. 244,396
Paid-up Capital .. 122,000
Income (Cross) 1918 .. 467,852
Established 1910.
AGENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney
NOBEL-CLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobet
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sy dney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in
Australia.
Losses from Fire, Personal Accident, Workmen’s Compensation, Mptor
Car, Plate-Glass Breakage. Burglary, Guarantee, Live Stoek, Crops,
Stacks, Hailstone, etc., Covered at Lowest Kates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, 50 Queen Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
CLAIMS PROMPTLY AND EQUITABLY SETTLED.
AGENTS IX ALL PRINCIPAL COUNTRY TOWNS.
SYDNEY H. .CARY. J.P.. Chairman." G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
Because of the strike B. H. Junction North
spent only £41.002 on mining and treatment
during the six months to September 30. com-
pared with £118.389 for the previous run.
But by realising on stocks “revenue was per-
sistent.” as the directors put it, and a work-
ing profit of £29,929 resulted, £8703 more
than in the earlier period. After charging up
office exes, and writing off £5850 for depre-
ciation. there was a net profit of £11,410,
and £8052 of it went in a ninepenny div.
Five calls on the new issue of shares brought
in £5884, and the co. closed its books with
surplus liquid assets of £174,172, compared
with £152,487 six months before. Chairman
J. S. Palmer looks to this liquid surplus
helping “adequately to finance the co. during
the periods when foreign buyers hold off the
market in expectation of purchases at panic
prices.” Since the beginning of May water
has been allowed to rise in the old Junction
North workings. At the Pinnacles, the main
centre of interest nowadays, seven bores were
put in. The only results worth recording
were at the 100 ft. level, where a horizontal
bore passed through four lots of ore of
widely-varying values, the best lot assaying
11.7 p.c. lead, 17.80 z. silver and .7 p.c. zinc.
* * » *
If the fire which destroyed the B.H. South
surface workings some months ago was an
act of incendiarism, or an exhibition of
“scientific sabotage,” as the elite of the Bar-
rier might call the wanton destruction of
property, somebody must be having a hard
struggle to refrain from blowing the gaff.
Bewards for information leading to the con-
viction, etc., now total £4OOO, with a free
pardon for the person giving information,
provided he is not the one who actually set
the place alight.
* * * *
The re-election of George Iverr as presi-
dent of the Broken Hill A.M.A. seems to
indicate that Kerr’s policy of “to Ilell with
arbitration” meets the local demand. Kerr
was opposed by JSmedlev, formerly manager
of the Unions’ newspaper, Daily Truth.
Smedley has advanced ideas, but he is suf-
ficiently long-headed to realise that, under
the regime of Kerr, the A.M.A. and in-
dustrial Broken Hill generally have entered
on a wild jag. However, Smedley got only
488 votes against Kerr’s 1444 ; and Middling,
another “militant,” got back as vice-presi-
dent.
* * * •
The Broken Hill Prop, steel works estab-
lished new records in four departments in
the latest monthly run. The blast furnaces
produced 22.454 tons pig; the open hearth
furnaces 21.222 tons steel (one week’s out-
put was 7204 tons) ; the blooming mills
19.825 tons; and the ISin. merchant mill
5923 tons, 2120 of it in one week. The
129 coke ovens in operation gave coke 16,815
tons, tar 200,307 gal., and sulphate of am-
monia 249 tons. General-manager Delprat is
back from his explorations and remains as
optimistic as ever about Australian industry.
American exchange has dropped below 400,
as against the old 486, and that makes
British land of course Australian) purchases
in the U.S.A. dreadfully expensive; while
the unparalleled prosperity of Asia opens up
there a tremendous field. Silver, by the way,
passed 6s. last week. The only explanation
offered (and it isn't wholly satisfying) is that
there has been unexampled hoarding in India
and China, along with exceptional demand
for ordinary currency requirements.
* * * •
The latest clean-up at Gundagai Long
Tunnel (N.S.W.) gave 4020 z. from 390 tons,
apart from gold in the tails. Five faces con-
tributed. Since the market was skittled by
the bears earlier in the year, the co. has
put through 1500 tons stone averaging just
over the ounce. But even this average has
not restored old confidence in the show, nor,
of course, does it definitely establish the
worth of the mine. Considering the smash-
ing effect of the official reports, the Mines
Department might get Geologist Harper to
have another look at the property. London,
which is. experiencing a company flotation
boom, is said to be anxious to acquire the
wL 1 ”? 1161 ’ and a P r °Posal to put up
±io,UU() of working capital is included in an
offer which has been made. Gundagai in its
earlier days was, of course, well known to
London. . Drought now has the show tied
up, crushing having ceased.'
According to manager Martin. Mt. Dud-
ley (JN.S. YV.) is giving better promise. Re-
cent developments at 145 ft. are stated to
show- a sft. face, going about an ounce. This
is taken to confirm the claim that the shoot
from which vendor Kirkman got £2835 out of
4 y< tons is dinning away to the south. And
since this body of ore is making into the
mountain, and is traceable to the boundary
on the surface, where oz. to 2oz. prospects
were obtained, the co.’s supporters are hope-
nil. Jhe district lias been experiencing its
v orst drought, _ and the Dudley directors,
w earned of waiting for rain, have decided
a f a P a swamp not far away from
the dam. Pumps and piping will cost any-
thing up to £5OO.
Ail is still well with Alt. Cuthbert (Q.).
The furnace is running nicely and costs are
lower than the office has yet seen. So there is
no need for tears because of the sickly ap-
pearance of the latest balance-sheet. These
were the debts on August 31, before the
smelter got going: Debentures, £55,000;
deferred creditors, £22,932; sundry credi-
tors, £16,882; bank overdraft, £16,072. The
sale of the 70,000 forfeited shares helped the
co. over the stile till manager Harris could
get the furnace running. The rtal worth of the
Kalkadoon is becoming apparent as smelt-
ing proceeds, for of the 78,750 tons ore sent
to the furnace it has furnished 30,500 tons
against Mt Cuthbert’s 38,700 tons. Kalka-
doon takes pride of place in the matter of
ore reserves; of the 136,000 tons estimated
as available and containing 8660 tons cop-
per, Kalkadoon provides 97,000 tons ore and
5100 tons copper. The Cuthbert mine shows
only 25,000 tons, containing 1500 tons cop-
per. Finances are in a deplorable condi-
tion considering that the mines have sup-
plied in all 92,000 tons of ore for 5206 tons
blister. This at, say, £BO per ton, repre-
sents over £400,000, and yet the debts set
out above have to be shown. The Mt.
Elliott smelting experiment was dismal, and
handicapped the co. instead of helping it to
wipe out debts. The big job ahead is to
hustle on development, for it is clear that
at the new 350 ft. level the grade all round
is not so good as at 250 ft.; though, with a
20ft. face now showing 12 p.c. stuff, a handy
enrichment has happened along when
The Cuthbert shaft is down to
480 ft., and crosscutting is proceeding, so
that it will soon be known what prospects
the parent mine offers. There always has
been a doubt as to the permanence of the
Cuthbert shoots, hence the importance of
getting side-lines up to the mark, besides
provi-ng the show at depth.
• * * * *
Queensland s gold yield last month was
only two-thirds of that for October, 1918
So far 102,7390 z. (fine), worth £436,407.
have been_ produced this year, compared
with 113,5580 z., worth £483,635, for the first
10 months of 1918. Owing to Morgan
having had to finance its copper stocks,
divs. paid this year by all gold producers
have amounted to only £66,393. Over the
same period of last year £175,622 was dis-
tributed.
* • • •
1 hough the Consolidated and Deeps people
and many residents of Westonia reckoned
that the Edna May pumps were serving only
that co.’s mine, recent events definiteiv es-
tablish the fact that the Edna May was prac-
tically pumping for the whole field. Since
water has been allowed to rise to 300 ft. in
that show, Central has been threatened with
swamping, and if the flood rises much
higher there Deeps may be threatened.
Deeps is now working under 200 ft. of water
accumulated in Edna May, and the minelvs
openly show they do not like it. Certainly
a massive concrete barrier has beeen con-
structed on the joint boundary of Edna and
Deeps, land all known points of weakness
have been strengthened. The men in Deeps
admit that the precautions taken may hold
the water back for 30 years or so, but at the
same time there is no certainty that one day
the water may not break through in 30
seconds. Mines Minister Seaddan took action
with commendable promptness, and the
powers he has acquired are very wide. He
lias the right to enter any mine* from which
there is an outflow of water to another mine
and adopt any pumping method he chooses.
He may also commandeer pumping plant,
paying fair rent, including reasonable pro-
vision for depreciation.
* * * •
Westralia has long wanted a mining float
practically all to itself, and recently it
thought it had got one when the Celebra-
tion Junction Option was put on the mar-
ket. The prospectus showed the float offered
? n the foUowing terms: Capital, £15.000,
in 60,000 shares of ss. each, 15,000 fullv
and £l7OO cash going to vendors*.
40 000 shares offered to public and 5000
held in reserve under option to vendors at
par. Of the 40.000 contribs, 25,000 were
reserved for Westralia, and Perth and Kal-
goorlie rushed to fill in applications, with
the result that over 100,000 are said
to have been applied for. Prior to
allotment buyers were offering 7s. per
share, and applicants, believing that the
shares would be allotted pro rata, smiled
when thinking of the good thing they
had got on to. But though it is a
simple matter to find applicants, it is much
more difficult to locate anyone who has
been allotted shares. The Federal Trea-
sury, which . controls new capital issues,
might make inquiries as to the number of
applicants and the scrip applied for, and
.ascertain to whom the shares have been
issued and what was the basis of distribu-
tion. Incidentally, no particulars whatever
as to the property the subject of this flota-
tion were given in the prospectus or appli-
cation form, and the co., for all the docu-
ment shows to the contrary, might have
for its field of operations the dredging of
Fremahtle Harbor.
Failing to get on to anything at Hamp-
ton Plains, Bullfinch Prop, has pegged out
a group of leases 14 miles east of the Cele-
bration, in the direction of Mt. Monger.
Surface indications are said to be all right,
and some, prospecting is being done by
Charlie Jones, the discoverer of Bullfinch.
Manager Bell, of the New Commodore, has
urged the co. not to leave Meekatharra
(W.A.), where misfortune has so far over-
whelmed its activities, in order to take on
the “hill of copper” recently discovered 270
miles further north. He contends that the
northern continuation of the shoots from
which the Fenian, Ingliston and other adja-
cent mines have produced so much gold will
ultimately be found in the Commodore, and
rather than chase copper in the Never-Never
country Bell prefers to prod the devil he
knows.
Alex. Campbell and his crew have given
Lyell Blocks best, and, subject to share-
holoers’ approval, the property is to be sold
to Lyell for £5OOO cash. It is just over 20
years since, with the backing of some mining
heavyweights of the day, Blocks was floated
in London; but Melbourne got control in
1008. The mine account stands in the books
M £288,631, plant at £27,000, development
account has swmllowed approximately £78,000
and a P. and L. debit o* about £12,000 has been
accumulated. Of co:#e, that is not all the
cash spent on Lyell Brocks, for many a pound
went into the claim before the present co.
took over. By buying the Blocks Bowes
Kelly adds to the Lyell another useful pur-
chase. First the Lyell Tharsis was taken
over, then the North Lyell, then South
, , and later the Comstock. Only poor
little Tasman and Crown Lyell is now out-
side The net. The immediate value of the
T lo f cks ,oW erty t 0 Mt Ly ell is in the fine
shaft 1300 ft. deep right on the North Lyell
boundary, and in which two levels at 1200 ft.
and 1300 ft. have been opened up. The final
froubje at the Blocks was due to a, collapse
at uooft., when the hunt after shoots of
bornite, close to the North Lyell boun-
dary, had almost emptied the cashbox. As
°5 n llope > tbe management turned to
bUUtt. to get at the copper-bearing run of
clays, out of which a few thousands had come
in divs. in the long ago. But the ground
collapsed, and a shut-down followed. The
purchase price of £5OOO seems paltry, repre-
senting only 4d. on each share paid to 235.
9d., but it is probably the best; the co. could
expect from the wreckage, assuming that the
purchase price does not include plant, which
has a book value of Is. 9d. per share. The
co. paid only two dividends of 6d. each, and
that was in 1906.
A mine of small things, Mt. Bischoff Ex-
tended (Tas.) manages to hand out an occa-
sional div. with tin at over £2OO per ton.
The Expended lodes are small, and tin
contents fractional. Thus the last 12,000
tons milled gave on the average .625 p.c.
tin per ton ore. O. W. Gudgeon, now g.m.
of the Bischofi, sums up the term’s results
by saying that smaller yields are due to the
declining grade and size of the lode, and to
machine-breaking of ore. At No. 6 level
the shoots were lOin. to 18in. thick, with
odd enrichments, making the contents run
at about 1 p.c., but so far the formation
where opened up at No. 9 is about a foot
wide, with tin down to about .2 p.c. It
will mean fine work to make both ends meet.
During the past six months the mine kept
20 heads of stamps busy.
* * * •
Besides the usual wild and wet winter,
general-manager Venn Brown, at King Island
Scheelite, has during the six months to
Sept. 30 had to contend with a shipping
strike and an epidemic of 'flu, which shut
the mine down for several weeks. Still he
warn able to put through 13,474 tons ore
averaging .68 tungstic acid, giving 101 f
tons 70 p.c. concentrates, worth £18,498. Re-
coveries work out at 77.4 p.c. Costs ran out
at 15s. 4d., but 3s. 6d. of that represented
the outlay on shifting 15.724yd5. overburden.
A working profit of £8215 resulted, and after
meeting Melbourne exes, and taxes and pro-
viding £1372 for depreciation, a net profit
of £5268 showed up, from which a Is
(£5000) div. was distributed. Venn Brown
estimates ore reserves at 69.200 tons, aver-
aging .85 tungstic acid. Some months ago
he made an attempt to locate the westward
continuation of the ore body, but shifting
sands and wet Weather beat him. The co
closed its half-year with liabilities amounting
to £3498, but had £16,227 in liquid assets.
The Maori Queen dredging show at Bright
j IC 'T bas been ru nning in poor stuff
and shows a loss for the past year. No. 1
plant has taken out all the ground worth
bothering about, thus leaving No. 2 to keep
the flag flymg. As there is solid ground ahead,
lom Husband’s tip is that the co. will soon
be raking in profits, especially with the pre-
mium on exported gold to assist. The fea-
ture of the Maori Queen is its low costs, foi
it has kindly wash to handle.
* * * *
The present boom in company flotatior
recalls that next year is the 200th anniver-
sary of the bursting of the South Sea Bubble
(Continued on page 22.)


THE PLIGHT FROM QUEENSLAND.
Pilot Ryan, in difficulties, throws over ballast.
[Dennis Connelly, 214 Ueorge-street, Sydney.]


MAKE YOUR NERVES STRONG AND
STEADY.
TAKE BITRO-PHOSPHATE WITH
10UR MEALS.
Without nervous force you cannot have
mental or physical strength, and that is why
many are urging those who are weak, ner-
vous or run-down to obtain some ogr. bitro-
phosphate tablets from the chemist and take
one tablet immediately after every meal.
They recommend 6/fro-phosphate particularly
because it is readily assimilated and almost
immediately transformed into vital nervous
tissue. And as nervous strength is gained,
so the health of the entire body improves*
until, in a short time, the poor sufferer from
neurasthenia, depression, nervousness, in-
somnia. debility, etc., becomes robust and
well once more, rejoicing in the possession
of abundant energy and strength. These
excellent results are obtained in practically
every case in which bitro-phosphate is used,
and readers may, therefore, test this remedy
with confidence that good results will follow.
Sufficient sgr. bitro-phosphate tablets for two
weeks’ continuous treatment can now be ob-
tained at small cost from high-class chemists
everywhere.— : Ai>vt.
QEORGE H OTEL.
it. Hilda. Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Act'onmio<latin« in Australia.
Engagement.
THE ENGAGEMENT is..;announced— of
Miss Nancy Reid, elder daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Reid, Hepburn, Strath-
field, to Mr. Clifford Bray King (7th and
Sth Brigades, A.F.A.), youngest son of Mr.
and Mrs. C. AY. B. King, Rotoiti, Killara.
[XAeltonian
I ▼ % HIGH-CLASS
ISPEfIALTIES
Creams
?? (
Pastes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL KINDS OF
BOOTS ard SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Atrents—
WARREN & STRANG LTD.
Barrack St., Syr'ney;
Russell St., Me bourne.
E. BROWN (§> SONS LONDON
AGENCIES • ALL • OVER • THE WORLD
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America ex the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
31anaging Director.
Society
MINCHINBURY
“P. Juggler” : Chiiuvel’s best claim lay in
his undoubtedly great powers of administra-
tion and-organisation, attributes which every
high army commander must be strong in.
He could plan out all details of a campaign,
but he lacked the decision to order the move-
ment on which the success or failure of an
operation might depend. The most striking
instance of this that I ever personally saw
was when the Desert Mounted Corps made
the great turning movement on Beersheba in
October, 1917. After a 40-miles night march
PREPARED FOR AN ARMISTICE.
SURPRISED DAD: “ Scoundrel! What are you doing there with my daughter ?”
TRUCULENT DIGGER: “ Mugging her, old pot—and what have you got to say about it?"
TACTFUL FATHER: “ Only that you've a fine night for the job, young man."
the brigades lay the next day in front of
Beersheba and watched the ehemy gathering
up lus reinforcements. A dismounted attack
by the Anzac Division fizzled out, and at
about 2 p.m. Chauvel wired Allenby at
G.H.Q. saying that the enemy resistance was
too stubborn and suggesting that the Desert
(,orps withdraw to Asluj, 40 miles away,
and water the horses there. ' This meant
the total change of Allenby’s plans, which
to the ornaments!” They didn’t When she
returned some .hours later she found each
little washed Cup d modestly attired in a
three-cornered napkin,
* * » *
“Good Australian”: Experience during
war proved the unreliability of most life-
preservers, eithers belts or jackets. A cork
jacket was found to be specially dangerous,
To dive or jump into the sea with a jacket
hinged on the capture of Beersheba. I was
at G.H.Q. near Rafa when Chauvel’s wire
came, and well remember Allenby reading
it. He handed the wire back to his chief
of staff, Louis Bols, and said “Tell him to
water at Beersheba to-night.” The wire
went to Chauvel in those exact words. The
result was that within 40 minutes of its re-
ceipt at Desert Mounted Corps Headquarters
Grant was moving his Fourth Brigade to the
attack, and within two hours of Allenby’s
receipt of Chauvel’s wire suggesting the With-
drawal, he got another to say that Beersheba
had been taken by the Fourth. Allenby has
the power of decision., Chauvel hasn’t.
* 'f . * , *
Victoria has thus far stuck to the anti-
quated custom of posting up in a public place
the names of persons summoned as jurors.
The jury squarer, who is almost exclusively
a southern product now, and all by . reason
of this foolishness, has only to look at the
list and then go and square one bad man
and false out of the 12. It wouldn’t be so
bad if Victoria was consistently Presby-
terian. and had the Scotch jury of 15 and
the majority verdict, for the squaring of
eight men is expensive, but it hasn’t. So
pushites shoot each other in busy streets
and are captured on the spot and acquitted
on the ground that they were in Hobart at
the time, and a man might carry the corpse
into court and stand it up against his
Honor’s desk and be discharged without a
stain on his character. Robinson, the
Attorney-General, has a bill before the
Council which threatens to interfere with
some of these quamt and interesting habits;
but the Government doesn’t seem very serious
about it.
* * '* . •
In one of the Sydney divorce mills last
week a woman who had married young said
that her husband had kicked her out of bed
50 times. Apparently she had accepted it
as part of the routine of married life. Bv
the time she found out that kicking was pro-
hibited under the Marquis of Queensberry
rules, she was too used to it to care much,
and merely thanked God that her husband
didn’t go to bed in his boots.
* * * *
“Gleniris”: The visiting Methody parson
was addressing the Sabbath-scholars at
Devil’s Elbow on the beauties of Heaven
and the virtue of preparedness for transla-
tion thither at a moment’s notice. “Now,”
he said, “hands up all of you children who
are ready to go to Heaven now.” A forest
of hands arose—all but that of little Ernest,
who sat downcast and embarrassed. “Ah.”
said the parson, “there’s a little boy with
his hand not up. Why aren’t you ready to
go to Heaven, my lad?” Ernest looked up
for a brief instant, and then down again.
“I got two rabbit-traps set,” he said.
* * * *
“J.M.S.”: The Diggers thought most
Aussie nurses angels : but there were excep-
tions. One old girl whom the orderlies hated
was called “The Barrage” because of the
way she opened fire if the , cleaning of the
ward didn’t satisfy her. Her domain was
an ornate room in an Egyptian palace, the
wall decorated with nude Cupids. When this
hospital was disbanded “The Barrage” set
her orderlies scrubbing the walls and floors.
“And.” she shrilled, “don’t forget to attend
on meant that the top struck the spine and
acted like a hangman's knot, In many cases
death was instantaneous. The British
Board of Trade, having had time to collect
evidence and make tests, . has cancelled its
approval of seven cork and seven kapok life-
preservers of various shapes, and in April
last approved of four preservers for
use on all British ships. At the head of
the list is the Maoriland Salvus life-jacket,
APPLIED ART.
“Gilding refined gold?”
“ No; merely painting the lily!”
made of kapok and invented by a Maoriland
lady named Beaumont. The Salvus consists
of two cushions stuffed with kapok and worn
on shoulders and breast. It is simple, easily
fitted on, will sustain a person for three days
in water and last for five years. Already
Salvus has been adopted by 12 British steam-
ship lines, and Maoriland scores another win.
* * * •*
“The Oldest Inhabitant’’ at school: —
The 70th anniversary of Fort-street, the best-
known State school in Australia, I should judge,
happens this year. The building was originally the
Sydney Military Hospital, which went out of use
when Victoria Barracks were erected at Paddington.
The old Hospital was built in 1815; the year is
on the keystone with the letters “G.R.” It was in
’l9 that it was taken over by the National Board
of Education, whose members were J. H. Plunkett,
Charles Nicholson and G. K. Holden. The first sec-
retary was W. C. Wills, who had been secretary to
the Mayor of Sydney. William Wilkins, afterwards
Under-Sec. for Pu lie Instruction, was headmaster
of the Board’s Training School; and G. W. Rusden,
the historian, afterwards Clerk of the Parliaments in
Victoria, was the inspector. One of the first pupils
to join was the late Frederick Bridges, who rose to
be chief inspector. In the early ’fifties the Board
imported from Ireland four men trained in Dublin,
and one of these, John Wright, died while still
training-master at Fort-street.
* * * *
“Rio”: “1921” (B. 13/11/T9) says tfiat
the Beersheba charge—mounted infantry
without swords or lances being sent against
trenches occupied by infantry—was “mad-
ness.” The question whether such:- troops
could be used for shock action, i.e.. could
charge with the same effect as cavalry, lias
been argued for years. Chauvel, knowing,
his Australians, has always said “Yes,” and
he got his chance and proved it, incontru-
vertibly. Brig.-Gen. Grant, who had been a
Right Horseman for years, would not think
someone had blundered at all. He would
jump at the chance of putting a much-
debated point to the test, and thereby im-
mortalising himself and his brigade in mili-
tary history. As to the “madness” and the
alleged novelty, the Boers several times
charged British troops in position, twice
■with great success, viz., against Benson at
Brakenlaagte and Dixon at Ylakfontein,
both. in 1901. In each of these cases the
British were halted on a defensive position
with regular guns and infantry and irregu-
lar mounted troops. The Boers charged
mounted, firing from the saddle (they had
no bayonets), and on each occasion cap-
tured the British guns and temporarily
routed the other troops.
* * * *
“Grcentape”: Gradually the Vic. State
offices are losing the spectres which began
to haunt them soon after the
bursting of the boom upset
many- apple-carts. Two elderly
misses are now the only con-
stant visitors. They both have
grievances, and claim compen-
sation. “Queen Caroline,” who
used to write letters under her
royal seal, protesting against
Crown lands alienation; ex-
policeman Sparling, who had a
scheme for shifting Parliament
House to the Domain; even the
Shabby men who collected a
little on account monthly for
fit btdiunting agencies are only
Ira mories. Old-age pensions and
compassionate allowances did
for some what kindlier Death
d.d for others.
t'fi jJc V
“L.”: The Holman Govern-
ment proposes to pay the State-
school teachers for voluntary
work done during the influenza
epidemic. Many of us feel keenly
that this will be a misuse of
public money, since we received
full salary with travelling and
meal expenses added when on
duty. We made no monetary
loss; on the other hand, in
many cases there has been loss
of health owing to the continu-
ous work and the ab-
sence of holidays at
Easter and midwinter.
If the Government
wishes to acknowledge
the services of the
teachers, what could
be more logical or
rational than an op-
portunity for much-
needed recuperation
in an extended autumn
holiday ?
“II am bone” : During the victory push, of
last year it became the fashion for all units
to put the moniker of the battalion or bat-
tery upon the Fritz guns it captured. Even
an Army Service Corps chalked its name up
on a wicked-looking 5.9. Some joker thought
that a respected unit of the A.I.F. should
not be left out to freeze, so at Harbonnieres
he rigged up a length of drainpipe on a
pair of dilapidated perambulator wheels and
surmounted the whole by an announcement
which read: “Captured by the Provost Corps,
12./8/TS.”
* * * *
“Yeronga”’: The boys of the fleet at pre-
sent visiting Brisbane are giving old Sleepy-
town something to talk about. Yesterday
some of them held up traffic in Queen-street
while they enjoyed a game of cricket on the
Docks. Another batch improved on this.
Securing a bedroom article, usually referred
to as a utensil, they filled it with beer and
took drink-about going down the street. They
•were playing catchers with it when last I
saw them.
AURANGED FOR—PERHAPS.
SHE ( exasperated ): “Upon my word, I often
wish God had made me a man."
HE (risking it): “Perhaps he has, Gertie.
Haven't yon ever thought about me?"
“Y.Z.”: I have listened to candidates all
the Commonwealth over, and conclude that
Parliament is that Empyrean sphere the
poets sing of as the highest heaven. But it
should be written M. P.-yrean.
HIS INSOLENCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
lie turned on mo a bold, dark eye
Beneath a snow-white brow
As he went slowly walking by;
And I was sitting here, as I
Am sitting meekly now.
His eye was black as new-mined coal,
Yet bright as water in a bowl
Of crystal clear, and so intense.
Impertinence!
He sniiled another time. His teeth
Were white as ivory chips,
Ilis twinkling eyes bright past belief:
And sweet, I think, to tempt a thief
Were his unbearded lips.
Astonishing, it seems to inc,
How wonderful a smile may bo
That touches like a soft caressl
Such saucinesp!
He spoke the third time that lie came.
His voice was. low and land:
1 missed his words, but, all the same, .
The music of them put to shame
The larlc above the wind.
He only spoke two words; I fear,
I made pretence he was not near.
Though all my eager sense did stretch.
The brazen wretch!
He passed again but vester-eve.
He did not look my way.
No glint of smile did I perceive,
No archness did his two lips weave;
He had no word to say.
Perhaps he thought of one more fair.
I saw his eye, and nought was there
In which I an affront might seek.
Outrageous cheek t
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


£B/8/-, YES! BUT
what clocks they are. Undoubtedly, the most
reliable clocks one can possess, and the most
desirable.
WHY?
They are really Goliath Watches, with our
“Super Fx and R” watch movements, only
gTeatly enlarged in them.
They are 3-plate Levers, with compensated
balances, and so variations of temperature do
not affect them. They have 15 jewels. In
other words, they are jewelled where-ever hard
wear occurs.
They have brequet hairsorings, and so knocks
and jolts do not affect them in travel.
They go with profound accuracy, and will
be good for a lifetime. We guarantee them
(in writing) for 15 years.
They are in all colors, in folding leather
cases.
ppMsi
mm m
s
. / ■.'»
Hi
■
:-v
MmmiiiiiijM
8-day Folding Clock, aptm-i v. * x and R Gr.,de,
with Dial, 3 inches in diameter, £B/8/-.
.Others as low as 35/-
Fairfax <SL Roberts Ltd.,
Plain Figures. Cash orvlv.
The Oldest Jewellery House In Sydney,
23 and 25 Hunter Street.
THE GOOD OLD “PLUM”
The good old “Plum” Razor has been before the
Australian Public for years, and its keenly-tempered
edge has preserved the friendship of every Shaver
•who has made its acquaintance.
THE, “PLUM” RAZOR.
PRICE. 10/6—POST FREE.
We keep it in Order for two years, free of charge.
Single Kazor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case. 21/-
Single Razor. Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case. 30/-
The above makes « handsome present.
“Plum” Strbp Dressing, 1 /2 Tube, post free.
- vll the above Post Free. Send for our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established or" SO 'tears
-T
Tried and Trusted—
The “PLUM”
Razor.
THE PERFECT GENTLEMAN.
HE (at daggers drawn): “My word, Bessie,
you do look well.”
SHE ( haughtily ): “Sorry I can’t return the
compliment.”
HE: “Oh, yes, you could if you were as polite
as I am.”
“Light Horse”: The final report of the
Dardanelles Commission reveals how
strongly Kitchener opposed the evacuation.
I’ve never ceased to wonder at our luck.
From their great observation-post on Gaba
Tape, a promontory which overlooked nearly
ilie whole of Anzac Beach, the Turks would
almost certainly have spotted us getting
away had not someone thought of putting
up a barrier to their observation by thrust-
ing a searchlight from a destroyer between
Gaba Tope and our right flank. The night
was good for observation —-between three-
quarter and full-moon—and the idea of the
beam of light did not emanate from the
staff’, but from someone in Col. Wilson’s sth
L.H. It had been a custom for a destroyer
to come close in shore each night, switch
on its searchlight for a few minutes, and
bombard the Turkish left near the old Balkan
gunpits. On the night of the evacuation th'
light was kept on for a couple of hours, and
the movements of the barges, etc., were thus
concealed. The bombardment, however, was
only as usual for fear Johnny might sus-
pect there was something doing. The Beachy
Bill guns could spray the jetty from which
we embarked any time thev liked, and what
a shambles there would haye been from
artillery fire alone had we been spotted!
Extraordinary thing about that night wav;
that Beachy Bill shelled up to about 7
o’clock and then knocked off entirely. I
think the crew were invited out and had too
good a dinner.
Whichever way the O’Donnell court-mar-
tial goes it will be a horrible advertisement
for the Lloyd George Government. Section 35
of the Army Act, under which the Tasmanian
padre is being tried, is almost word for word
the same as the old Prussian section directed
at lese-majestd. The present king no more
poses as a god than his father did. He is.
it is true, rather more sensitive than Edward
was; when accused by the voice of Rumor
of bigamy he took steps to nail the lie down,
whereas Edward never minded what was
said about him. Neither, certainly, does
George when it is the innocuous stuff which
the padre is charged (truly or otherwise)
with uttering. Abuse of a king on such lines
is about as harmful as abuse of the king’s
English. The King- would no doubt have
liked nothing better than to stop the .farcical
trial out of hand ; but he is in the false posi-
tion of being unable to do it. He can only
sit back and curse the misguided officers who
clumsily involved him in a case which has
drawn the attention not merely of Ireland.
but of the whole Empire, to the rotten way
in which this part of his kingdom is being
governed.
The Gun that Wasn’t Loaded has provided
a stiange case for the South Aus. Criimnal
Court. Anti it really wasn’t loaded this
time; but it proved fatal all the same. A
Kangaroo Island hotelkeeper, who did the
shooting, told the jury a plain tale. Several
friends wei'e in the bar one afternoon. All
were sober. One was doing a step-dance.
Another called the host’s attention to a gun
that needed cleaning, so it was given a
“blow through” with a blank cartridge. He
fired it over the counter, pointing down-
wards, and just at that moment the dancer
slipped or jumped backwards. When he
said he was hit, “We all thought he was
jok'ng, as the poss’b’lity of a wound by a
blank cartridge seemed incredible.” But the
wad had entered his hip, and fatal compli-
cations set in a few days later. The jury
said Not guilty.
st- * * *
“One of Nobbo’s”: Regimental Sergeant-
Major Bill, of the Camel Corps, was a
noted hard-doer, and one of the gamest in
the A.I.F. While in Port Said in charge
of a batch of men down for a spell after
many hard months in the desert, the only
parade was rifle inspection. One
morning after the night before
Bill’s head would not even fit his
issue hat. and his tongue was hang-
ing out for a reviver. Everything
was in order, and Bill reported so
to th'e orderly officer —one of the
eyeglass variety that seem to haunt
rest camps and such-like dangerous
places. Bill “ ’shunned” the parade
;ind way-ed his right hand to the
Englishman, who commenced fuss-
ily on lrs job of pretendine to
inspect rifles. Bill all the time
bad one eye in the direction of the
wet canteen. Lieut. Horace Fitz-
foggleberg had not half finished
when Bill roared, “’Shun! Slope
arms—dismiss!” The amazed offi-
cep rushed up to the s.m. and ex-
claimed. “Har dar you. sir! My
inspection was not half finished.”
“Too late now,” said Bill;
“the canteen is open. Come and have a
drink.”
■* * * *
That experienced Melbourne man of
affairs, J. M. Gillesjlie, is appealing for
funds to help the volunteer Foundling Hos-
pital. The Hospital Sunday committee looks
the other way when it sees the Foundling
rep. approaching, and the State Government
only contributes a dole, amounting to a
weekly half-sovereign. All the rest of the
remarkable little charity’s income is made
up by people who recognise the tremendous
claim which the doorstep infant has on the
community’s sympathy. By their works ye
shall know them, anyway, and the record of
the hospital is that, among 111 infants cared
for during the two years up to last August,
there was only one death. This is about
one-twentieth the normal death-rate among
such infants during their first year. What
ails the Hospital Sunday committee that
such a smashing proof of efficiency should
be disregarded?
JUST TO COMFORT HER.
“If you haven't heard of your husband for
all this while, he may be dead and in
Heaven long ago."
"Ah, you are only saying that to comfort me
because you know I never want to meet
him again.”
“Rose Madder”: in addition to several
really fine art shows (such as Norman Lind-
say's), Melbourne has had within the last
year or Wo some awful displays—in the
worst sence exhibitions. Now that the real
thing in Australian art is at
last gaining appreciation and
sales, every suburban plodder or
gusher who fools about with
colors and brushes- has decided
that he or she must be “brought
before the public.” Gallery
walis are consequently covered
vvitn hideous nightmares—some
of them of the kind produced by
pupils of the suburban masters
who promise “twelve lessons for
a guinea.” Catalogued at ex-
travagant prices, many of these
things are actually bought, for
und,scriminating folk have been
caught in the art boom, and
they naturally prefer bad stuff
to good. I wouldn’t be sur-
prised any day to see an exhibi-
tion of the “real hand-painted
piaques,” framed in crimson
plush, on which damsels of 30
years agb prided themselves.
And why shouldn’t there be an
exhibition of the decorated
drain-pipes and dyed pampas-
grass of the same -period which
must lurk in many a lumber-
room ? There is a great field
for the tuition of picture-buyers,
to enable them to distinguish
between art and tripe. One
trouble is that in encouraging
the tripe-vendors many buyers
think they are encouraging Aus-
tralian art. By the time they
wake up some of the genuine
Australian artists may have
starved, though there is less risk
of that nowadays than there used to be.
* * * *
Victorian statistics for the quarter ended
September, 1919, show that, while death and
marriage are becoming increasingly popular,
the habit of being born is going out of
fashion. The figures are: Hatched, 8062
(503 below the quarterly average for the
three previous years) ; matched, 3172 (as
compared with 222 S in the same period in
1918) ; scratched, 5469, an .increase of 31
per cent, on the average for the September
quarter of the three preceding years. The
slump in the birth-rate is accentuated by the
fact that 591 infants who had not lived a
year died during the quarter, compared with
503 for the - same period in 1918.
* * * *
Prince Alfred Hospital (Sydney) now
runs an entirely new department as a result
of the war—a department for the observa-
tion of malaria cases. The worst malaria
■was brought back not from the islands, but.
from Egypt, a very large percentage of re-
turned Light Horsemen being sufferers. It
does tot, as a rule, stop them following tlieir
ordinary avocations, except when an attack
is actually upon them, so the R.P.A. Hospital
registers them, treats them as out-patients,
and tries a course of treatment which it is
believed will eventuallv drive out the germs
in all but a few specially obdurate cases.
#■#.**
“Zanthus” : The oldest chip of Australian
timber whose history is more or less known
is a cypress-pine post in the Perth Museum.
It came from Dirk
Hartog Island, and
there is reason to be-
lieve that it is the post
on w’hich Willem de
Vlaming in 1697
nailed up an inscrip-
tion recording his
visit to the island, as
Dirk Hartog had done
when he discovered
the place in 1616. If
the theory is right
this bit of timber was
cut 222 years ago. It
is still fairly sound,
considering. It is
supposed that Vlam-
ing cut the pine on
Rottnest Island,
where he certainly
did a good deal of
wood chopping. He
took a lot of speci-
mens of Australian
timbers, fruits and
plants to Batavia,
but, luckily, the Coun-
cil of the Indies could
not see any profit in
them. The Dutch-
men wanted treasure
In a smaller compass.
“0.1 v.” : At Bungaree (Vic.) Police Court,
a citizen has been fined 20s. for assaulting
the m.c. at a recent ball, and the m.c. has
been fined for a counter-assault and for using
bad language to some gentlemen who were
smoking" amidst the festivities. The case,
besides recalling the old story of Mint-sauce
Jones, who affectionately addressed his con-
stituents as “Gentlemen of Ballarat and
savages of Bungaree,” reminds me of the
most distressing breach of etiquette I ever
experienced. It was at Melba’s belo.fed Lily-
dale, in the days before the railway was ex-
tended to Healesville. The first public had
had been built at the township, and
some enterprising locals had hired it
ANOTHER “LITTLE BIT.”
S. MOORE-BEER: “Yes. it was indeed the
greatest war in history. D'you know, I
was so busy seeing the boys off and
welcoming them home that you couldn’t
say I teas properly sober the whole
time.”
for the purpose of a grand inaugural ball,
with an orchestra from Melbourne. Five
pounds’ worth of musicians had been ordered,
bed and breakfast for the five artists being
included in the contract. But the Lily dale
policeman forbade a charge for admission, on
the e-round that the little crib had not yet
been licensed. This thunderbolt might have
knocked the promoter out but for the fact
that fiddlers and cornet had arrived, and £5
of expense couldn’t be allowed to run to
waste. So he decided to make a free function
of the ball. Then the youth of Lilydale sidled
in, and the m.c. had to reprove the Strephons
for their want of courtesy. “Gents as is gents.”
ho explained, “always takes their ’ats orf
when darncin’ wif ladies,” after which every-
thing proceeded decorously until the but-
chers’ assistants arrived, at 9 p.m., with
bits of meat in their pockets. It was with
tears in his voice that Beau Nash addressed
the meeting at the conclusion of a polka.
“When gentlemen,” he said, “commences to
throw liver at the band, I think it’s time to
stop the ball.” So ended Lilydale’s first hop.
“Hooshta” : It was quite characteristic of
the War Administration that, when men were
wanted for Intelligence work in the A.1.F.,
the heads turned away from the Diggers.
How could Diggers be supposed to know
anything? I applied for the branch, and
having satisfied them that I was a pretty
decent linguist, w T as eventually attached to
G.H.Q. But no Digger had a hope of pro-
motion. The work I was on had a lot of
interpreters attached to it—Armenians,
Syrians, Arabs, Hebrews (local products),
but barring the officers I was the only
British-born interpreter there. Several of
them had formerly acted for the Turks, but
having been taken prisoners by us had
volunteered for the job, and they were paid
full rates, too, most of them 10s. a day. As
for me, being merely a Digger, a trooper's
pay was enough. But what could you ex-
pect when many of the Tommy officers of
this branch actually knew no language but
their own !
“Ivopai”: A returned A.I.F. man, an ex-
brigade major who enlisted as private and
came home with the D.S.O. and the M.C.,
has a picture of a shipboard group of
officers, 10 of them. “All but two sent home
as duds!” he says. “Most of ’em, being
permanent-force men, to home jobs and
preference in the remodelled army!” This
lad could have gone into a British or Indian
regiment, where so many of our bright young
tried soldiers are going; but he had a girl
waiting and decided-for home. He was pre-
pared to continue a soldier, but all that was
offering was a chance to qualify for S.S.M.,
or, if he pulled strings enough, fluke a
lieutenancy. “Too much politics in the Aus-
tralian army,” he says—“no chance without
a pull!” So trade gets an ordinary ex-
ponent, and the Commonwealth army "loses
a man who in that line proved himself close-
up to a genius.
THE BAD WEEK-END.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My dear has gone away to-day
And left me here alone.
I know that dears have gone away,
With fairy kisses thrown,
That ships have sailed for Far Cathay,
And many winds have blown
For years and years. Yes, thanks; I know all that.
But my dear’s gone. And there’s her garden hat.
The house is like, a winter sea,
A cold and dreary place,
" here no one speaks or laughs at me,
And no remembered face
Bends o'er a book or smiles at tea.
Still, here and there a trace
Says softly, “She was here”—her shoes, her cat,
A silver thimble and that garden hat.
The thimble and the shoes may go i
The books will wait a spell;
But all the paths are strewn with snow
Where apple-blossohi fell;
And passion-stars and roses glow
O’er stocks that hide the well.
The Wallflower’s out. The primrose dots the flat.
And, oh, come bad, and wear your garden hat!
'K.S.W,
HILAKY LOFTJNG.


THE
Union Trustee Company
of Australia Limited
Executors, Trustees, Administrators,
Attorneys or Agents for Absentees,
etc.
New South Wales: Victoria: Queensland
The only Trustee Company having
branches in more than one State.
SYDNEY OFFICE—IS O’CONNELL STREET.
Directors: Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar,
K.C.M.C., M.L.C. (Chairman), Hor,. Janies
Ashton, M.L.C.. Hon. H. Y. Braddon,
M.L.C., F. B. S. Falkiner, M.H.R., James
Kidd, W. H. Mackay, R. M. Pitt, Duncan
Sinclair.
V. G. WATSON, JOHN MAIR,
Assistant Manager. Manager.
CALL OR SEND FOR COMPANY’S BOOKLET.
deaf?
v ou can HEAR,
and we prove '*
by sending you,
post free, an
easy - to- wear
Acousticori
ON 10 DA*’S’
FREE TRIAL
No deposit, no obligation, no expense.
Over 330,000 delighted users, including the
Prime Minister, Mr. Hughes, who hrs
been using the '* Acousticon” for •nore
than five years! The “Acousticon” will
safely and surely enable you to heart
Convince yourself at our expense, and
DON’T STAY DEAF
Lamson;
Store
Service
;co.
102 Dakingr House, SYDNEY
Olderfleet, Collins St.,MELB.
X.Z.: John Procter , ZOO High St-, ChrUtc’h.
W.A.: 11. Little & Co., SOI Ilay Street, Perth.
The
finest
Tobacco
obtainable is
if EXTRA HIGH GRABCJ
RE4DYRUBBHD
3]
[John Barr and Ernest O’Ferrall, 214 Ceorge-
street, Sydney; and C. R. Bradish, Old Exchange,
Melbourne.]
Hotel Sydney
The Spacious Dining
Hall is a Rendezvous
of Eminence for
LUNCHEONS
and
DINNERS.
ITEMS—
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA.
CHARHING ROOF GARDEN.
Management E. T. CHEESEMAN.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Archbishop Maunix —Daniel in the Ryan’s
Den.
December birthdays: A. H. Garnsey
(Warden of St. Paul’s, Sydney). 47, Dick
Butler (ex-S.A. Treas.), 69. and W. Herbert
Phillipps (S.A.), 72, on 3rd: Westralian
Agent-Gen. Connolly and artist James Quinn,
49, on 4th; Henry Stephen (formerly
Supreme Court Judge, N.S.W.), 91, on sth;
Bishop Stephen (Newcastle), 59, on 9th;
F. B. Guthrie (N.S.W. Agricultural Dept.),
58, on 10th; Bishop Thomas (Adelaide), su.
on 11th; Professor Marson (Melb. L 69, and
Judge O’Sullivan (Q.), 63, on 13tli; Geo.
Ritchie (S.A. Commissioner of Works), 55,
on 14th ; artist Elliott Griiner (b. Gisborne,
M.L. i. 37. on 16th; Justice Sly (A.S.W.),
70. on 17th: Llewelyn Atkinson. M.H.R.
(Tas.). 52, on 18th; Judge Cohen (N.S.W.),
60, on 20th ; Joe Carrutliers, 62, and Major-
Gen. McCay. 55, on 21st; Professor Chap-
man (Adelaide). 53, and A. C. McCay
(lately of Sydney Sun), 45. on 27th;
Dugald Thomson (formerly Minister for
Homo Affairs), 71, and Bob Philp (Q-), 68,
on 28th: Eustace B. Grundy, K.C. (S.A.).
70. on 30th; and Kathleen Watson, on
31st.
EDWARD NORTON, new U.S. Consul in
Sydney.
Lyndhurst Giblin’s appointment by the
hpeok as its Statistician is but tardy recog-
nition of exceptional ability. Giblin is
about the last of the “Tasmanian scholars,”
of whom ex-Senator Clemons was one and
barrister Waterhouse, of Launceston, another.
These scholarships, given by the Tasmanian
Government, were tenable at any University
within the United Kingdom. Tl. \v were
discontinued when the little Speck authori-
ties considered the holders were not making
good, quite oblivious of the fact that the
Speck Government. took good care they
shouldn’t get a chance to make good, at all
events in their native land. The Speck
always did have the importing craze badly.
Mary Grant, Labor candidate for Bala-
clava (Vic.), Willy Watt’s stronghold, be-
longs to a family of rebels. Norman, elder
brother, a tall and fashionably-dressed car-
penter, was gaoled twice during the war
for ignoring Hughes’s War Precautions Act.
Alex., a younger brother, used to speak for
one of the woodworkers’ unions on Mel-
bourne Trades Hall council, and was the
delegate who got the council to hoist the
red flag. He also went “iu” for some war-
time crime or other. Pearl Grant, a young
and winsome girl, was soap-boxing all
through the war; but no John Hop with an
ounce of feeling could arrest Pearl. Mary,
who is Mrs. Jack Mullis off the platform,
knows what the inside of a gaol is like, too.
All four are good talkers for Labor. The
muster will be five if Mary’s Maoriland hus-
band gets up. What an array of argument
to take Sunday-night tea with !
Colonel Robert
Tate, recently-
appointed Civil
Administrator for
Maoriland at
Kamo a. was a
country lawyer be-
fore Hindenbrug
hurled his drinking-
cup at the war
gong. He prac-
tised in the Waira-
rapa. where they
breed squat-
ters and foot-
ballers, and
in his off
time drilled
with the vol-
unteers
COLONEL R. W.
TATE, Maoriland,
the newly-
appointed Adminis-
trator of Samoa.
A polite Nemesis will dog the footsteps of
T. J. Ryan during the remainder of his
Federal election campaign, Hughes having
selected Elphinstone, the new State member
for Oxley, to follow Tomjo about Aus-
tralia and put the ease against him,
with special reference to his shortcomings
while in power in Banana land. Elphin-
stone is a finished speaker, reasons
well, and doesn’t throw dirt. When not
trying to earn the £5OO paid him by a
beneficent country, he runs Elpbinstone's
Agencies, and can do a bit of religion on the
side.
Adelaide seems satisfied with its City
Council. Aid. Moulden is the only nomina-
tion for Mayor, Forwood succeeding him a»
alderman, and Glover, the retiring Mayor,
taking Forwood’s place as councillor. Apart
from this exchange, there will be no altera-
tion, except possibly in North Adelaide,
where J. S. Rees, insurance man, is chal-
lenged by Dr. Phcebc Chappie, daughter of
the former Prince Alfred College headmaster.
She has come back with a fine record of war-
service, and aspires to be the first woman on
the City Council, as another member of her
profession, Dr. Helen Mayo, is of the Uni.
Council.
Adam McCay, editor of Sydney Sins',
has resigned, and goes to Joynton Smith, who
has a daily (morning) paper in contempla-
tion.
'William J. Rainbow, entomologist to Syd-
ney Museum, who died the other day, knew
more about the spiders, scorpions and other
insects of our half of the world than any
other man. He began as a journalist on
Maoriland Premier John Ballanee’s Wan-
ganui paper, and was on the Sydney press
for 12 years till 1895, by which time he
had so developed his hobby that the Aus-
tralian Museum gave him the job he' held
until his death. His original research work
gained for him high distinction among ento-
mologists, while the arrangement and cata-
loguing of insects was a big work by which
he will probably be best known. A frail-
looking little enthusiast, despite his jour-
nalistic training he did not aspire to become
a local Fab re, but he was coaxed into
writing a few articles about butterflies and
the menace of the mosquito and house-fly.
The unopposed election of. a lawyer as
Mayor of Adelaide brings out the odd raet
that only the oldest inliabitant can recall
any other member of the profession sitting
in, that chair. The incomer. Frank Moulden.
is a member of the law firm established by
his grandfather, carried on then by his father
and uncle, and latterly by himself and a
cousin.
Surely no other man was ever such a
patriarch as C. It. Walsh when he was
admitted to the N. S. Wales Bar. Mr,
Walsh has been about 40 years in the Law
office; and 25 years prothonotary of the
Supreme Court; and when he reached the
retiring age and was pushed out the other
day, Shand, K.C., moved for his admission
to the' Bar—he had previously been on the
roll of solicitors.
“Pitmaniac” : Deakin’s vocabulary was re*
markable, and he dipped into it like a bandit
running fingers through his loot. No
Federal speaker before or since was so hard
to chase as Deakin. though Glynn is more
difficult,’ on account of the thick Hibernian
utterance. The only Federal person who
approaches Deakin is Watt, and he is more
measured, and liis word-coinage has a baser
ring. But he is the late Alfred’s superior in
voice, and somehow his consciousness of the
fact makes one listen less for his message
than for his music.
Died in London from pneumonia, S. W.
Thornton, secretary of Mount Morgan and
the Pt. Ivembla smelting eo., and private
sec. to Kelso King. Soon after the war got
iuto its stride he offered for active service,
but was rejected for defective eyesight. In
the latter part of 1918, however, a place was
found for him in the accounts branch, and
lie was drafted into the pay office in London,
In the interim he had done good work for
the Red Cross, particularly in Egypt, Eng-
land and France. He was 42 when the
clock stopped.
F. W. Were, chairman of the Mel-
bourne. Stock Exchange for the 14th
year in succession, keeps one of Mel-
bourne's oldest names to the fore.
Jonathan Binns Were, the first of the
family, came from Somersetshire to Mel-
bourne in 1839, and commenced business as
a merchant and commission and shipping
agent. lie was the first president of the
first Chamber of Commerce, first agent for
the P. and O. Co., and consul for half the
States of Europe and South America: a
member, too, of the first Leg. Ass, of Victoria
(1856), and a member of the Stock Ex-
change when it had its first call.
C. A. Lee, Father of the N. S. Wales
Assembly, who has just passed into his
78th year, was congratulated and testimonial-
ised by his colleagues, whom he will shortly
leave. He first entered the State Parlia-
ment in 1884. and has sat without a break
for Tenterfield during 15 Parliaments. The
recent re-distribution of seats wipes that elec-
torate out. and the Old Man will wmo no new
lover. Tenterfield was originally a squat-
tage owned by Stuart Alexander Donaldson,
first Premier of N. S. Wales, who named it
after a family property in Scotland. The
township came into existence in the late
’fifties.
Thomas Leckie, lately dead in S. Aus. at
71, was the first nerson to see good in what
used to be called the Ninety-mile Desert.
He took up a block iu the middle of the
then unbroken mallee, at what is now the
thriving town of Lameroo. He had not a
neighbor within 60 miles, and his wife once
went four years without seeing another
white woman. The railway came much later,
when other people had seen that his lead was
good. A memorial to the pioneer is planned.
Donald Kerr, LL.I). of Adelaide University
at the astonishingly early age of 26. is son
of a former Glenelg (S.A.) schoolmaster,
and was called to the Bar in 1914. Since
then he has brought back from Pozieres a
wound-stripe, the rank of lieutenant —he
started as a stretcher-bearer —-and the Mili-
tary Medal. He is now' a partner in the
old Pope law firm in Adelaide. The thesis
which has earned him the LL.D. degree is
a weighty one on the judicial interpretation
of the Federal Constitution.
Donald Cameron, who is the Billieux can-
didate for Brisbane against Finlayson, is a
veteran at the war game. When the Boer
War broke out he enlisted with the Queens-
land mounted mob. served right through,
then went to China and fought out the
Boxer rebellion. He heard the bugle in
1914, and after four years on Gallipoli and
in Palestine came back to Queensland iu
charge of the Fighting Fifth. llis father
was one of the pioneers of Western Queens-
land, and for many years a member of the
Queensland Assembly.
P. A. Paresi, of Sherwood (N.S.W.), who
passed over the range last week, served with
Garibaldi’s army before lie came to Aus-
tralia and went in for wine-growing. His
work as a scientific agriculturist, besides
being of great value to Australia, had won
the recognition of the Italian Government.
F. C. Monger, one-time member for York
in the Westralian Assembly, died in Perth
on the 15th November, at the age of 56. lie
had his brief moment of fame when in 1906
he moved that Westralia secede from the
Commonwealth.
CHARLIE GLOVER. Adelaide's
First Lord Manor.
‘Obbs, tin; dt'itr old Granny of the Fifth
Division—Bir Talbot Hobbs in these days—
wasn’t wise enough to stick to first thoughts.
When lie landed in Westralia a month back
he thought he could perhaps do better for
his State by keeping out of politics; and
within a fortnight he was up against a very
tough proposition ill Lovckin, of the Daily
News, for. the Deg. Council (Metropolitan
seat). The pen was mightier than the sword,
and the shrewd Lovekin led home by a
hundred or so.
Jim Beckett, sometime big-brother to the
aborigine in the N. Territory, and lately re-
turned to familiar haunts, as Melbourne
pressman, is abandoning journalism again
and betaking himself once hiore to his lie-
loved wilds. He goes into the Gulf this trip
as proprietor of several little island EdenSj
which the nomad scribe has taken up With
the intention of growing tropical fruits for
tin' Sydney and Melbourne markets, and in-
cidentally raising cattle. Beckett has two
lately-returned soldier-sons to assist him in
running his blessed isles, both now well,
though one was blown up by a bomb at the
“peaceful” entry into Damascus.
“Lou”: Seven years ago Donald Grant,
who is in for 15 years with the I.WA\.
batch, jumped on to a soapbox in Sydney
Domain and made an indignant reply to an
attack on the Presbyterian Church. That
was his first oration in public. A year
later lie was converted to revolutionary
thought, and became an opponent of all
churches, and one of the greatest of Aus-
tralian mob orators. Grant was never x
member of the 1.W.W.. but was always
ready to assist them when in trouble, and
he could get a crowd to throw in its last
shilling. He was once offered the job of
private sec. to a N.S.W. Premier, but re-
fused. and kept along the slippery track tnat
leads sometimes to Parliament and some-
times to prison.
One of the most expert wireless men in
the world —Arthur Sawyer, of Maoriland —
goes to the Antarctic with the Cope Expedi-
tion. In earlier days he was with the M.L.
Telegraph Dept., later he was with Douglas
Mawson’s wireless plant at Macquarie
Island. W hen war got loose he was unable
to pass the recruiting-officers at home, so lie
went to India, where they know a thing
or two about an army's requirements, and
did strenuous work with the spark. He joins
Cope in London.
Most of the South Aus. Labor members
who went overboard when the party split
on the conscription rocK have made a land-
ing. Ex-Premier Verran is superintendent
of the Wallaroo wheat yard for the Wheat
Board: ex-Mini'ster of Works Jackson has
a job on the Commonwealth wharf, Pt. Pirie;
ex-Minister of Industry Blundell is running
the National Party; and W. .T. C. Cole.
Jackson’s former colleague, has purchased
Ponder’s old advertising agency in. Adelaide.
Ponder and Cole were fellow-apprentices in
a country newspaper office many years ago.
TO A BABY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When I am dead and all the heavy mould
Presses upon my eyes and breaks my frame,
Weary with those grey years of growing old,
You will be tasting life; to you my name
Will be the cipher for a man who died.
My dreams, my hopes,, my happiness, my fears
Will be forgotten ; you will walk bright-eyed
Through the proud wonder of the magic years.
1 will he dead, but you will challenge wrong,
See the moon slide from out the wonder seas,
Cherish your hopes, and hear the lisping song
Of the warm wind lulled by the swaying trees.
You will go out to fight the cause of right,
Shouting defiance to the brazen sky,
Armed in your youth and 'confident of might,
Splendid and foolish—even thus was T.
1 will be dust, and a few worms, but you
Will be firm fl< sh, the master of the earth.
Your lips will tremble as her lips you woo,
Your laugh will ling with Springtime’s mighty mirth.
Nights there will be when ail the ages’ pain
Will close upon you with a hand of lead;
Then will the years tile st#ry blot and stain,
And they will- number you among the dead.
And so we tvvo will meet once more and sleep
Forgotten by all men and the great Sun :
Buc still above our heads slim Youth will leap
To conquer all. The tale is never done ;
From fresh lips flow the vows, the lies, the boasts,
And strange hands find our tasks and think them new,
For down the centuries inarch gallant hosts — .
Youth to the old high purpose ever true!
VICTORIA.
DALE COLLINS.


r
A
//
As
&
A//
n
m
/
Vl* V*
■4
\
TOB
&s
fIUSTRBLIfI'S
MBTIorML
SMOKE
In the crowded city street, by the lone
camp fire the never failing friend
of every man who smokes—a cool
tobacco with a flavour famed throughout
a continent.
CUT FLAKE OR MIXTURE
ALSO IN PLUG FORM
<5413
THE LAST WORD IN
400
pipe Guarani


[John Barr and Ernest O’Ferrall, 214 George-
strepi. Sydney; and C. R. Bradish, Old Exchange,
Melbourne.]
ill
Engine
geared
to
Pumping
Jack.
n
i a
® i
1
'36
Pumping
Jack
for
Belt
Drive
SUNSHINE ENGINES
Cut Chaff and Pump Water on
Thousands of Australian Farms
Write to any of the undermentioned addresses for illustrated
Catalogue B 2 and quotations. Prices are low and easy
terms are offered.
Engines U, 3,5,7, lOh.p. Engines
Portable and Stationary
and made in YOUR Country.
m
fifi p
I
c
m\A
H. V. McRAY, Sunshine Harvester Works, Sunshine.
Stanley Street, South Brisbane.
27-39 George Street West, Sydney.
Corner Collins and Spencer Streets, Melbourne.
Corner York and St. John Streets, Launceston.
56 North Terrace, Adelaide.
36 Pier Street, Perth.
Captain S. M. Bruce is alleged to be the
only Federal M.P. who refuses to accept
any Parliamentary salary. He is, of course,
wealthy—and wealthier since the death of
only-brother Ernest made him head of the
big Flinders-lane firm. Paterson, Laing and
Bruce is nearlv all Bruce. The Laings have
long since ceased to hold any interest, and
the only Paterson interested is a buyer in
London. Stanley Bruce, simple enough as a
youth at Melbourne Grammar, but now
highly burnished with a Cambridge educa-
tion, is very popular with his employees,
probably on account of his profit-sharing
scheme, which last time provided a welcome
bonus of from 10 to 15 per cent, on annual
salaries.
“MsNorth”: At a missionary meeting in
London recently “Tamate” Chalmers, the
sturdy old pioneer gospel-bearer who was
killed and eaten at Goarabari (Papua) in
1901, was sanctimoniously referred to as
one who flew instantly to prayer in time of
stress. Wrong! “Tamate” was a stead-
fast believer in doing his darnedest first.
Supplication was all right when everything
else had failed. He was intolerant of
methods that called for knee-drill when
there was real work to be done. Writing to
a friend of his experience in the Harrier,
when that vessel stuck on one of the
patches of the Barrier Reef, he said: “Some
of the papers are jeering. They draw
ridiculous pictures of a shipload of mis-
sionaries praying for rescue.... Hey, mon,
there was little time for praying; it was
all hands to the pumps. ... Read the papers
and laugh.” But the subsequent offering of
thanks for Divine deliverance was none the
less sincere.
There wasn’t much swank about the newly-
knighted Major-General Granville Ryrie.
After the Armistice, Hodgson, who was com-
manding the Australian Mounted Division,
went to England on leave and Ryrie was
ordered up from Cairo to take command.
When met at the landing stage at Tripoli
(Syria), after a two days’ very “dry” voyage
from Port Said, the first inquiry he made
of the senior staff-officer was: “Where’s the
nearest pub. Bill?”
“Studio”: I was spending a holiday at
Richmond with J. J. Hilder, who was then
doing his best work. One day we got out
the old bush buggy and drove the spavined
apparition that went with it till he was
done-in after eight miles in three hours.
“That settles it,” said Hilder, as he stopped.
“The neddy knows. I’ll paint here.” It
was a most unlikely spot, but he refused to
argue, and an afternoon’s work resulted in
“Hill and Sky,” one of the finest Australian
pictures shown that year.
Although the Senate doesn’t meet again until
July, 1920, there is already considerable talk
about the next President. Re-elected by
his State or not, the present holder, Givens,
is said to have exhausted Queensland's claim
on the perch. Senator
Keating reckons that
the throne just fits him
nicely, and if Hughes
gets back on the
T teas ur y benches
Keating will most
likely have the billet,
not because he is per-
sonally acceptable, but
because he has shown
an independent spirit
and an embarrassing
backfire at unexpected
moments. The Chair-
manship of Commit-
tees, now held by
Shannon, is alleged to
be already earmarked
for De Largie, but
there are quite si lot of
people who will ha ve
something to say about
that.
MALCOLM FRASER,
Maoriland's
Government
Statistician.
“Scaler”: “Oglamite” (B. 2/10/T9) may
rest easy in his mind as to the existence
of “Broncho,” about whom the Army told
a hundred tales, for I saw his body less
than five minutes after he was killed in an
estaminet near the Rue de Moulin, Char-
leroi, in March, 1919. Originally a First
Division man, Broncho was transferred to
a battalion in the Fourth Division when it
was formed in Egypt. He saw some fight-
ing m France, but was generally adrift, de-
sertion and breaking escorts being special-
ties of his. His end was soectacular and
sudden. Two officers of his battalion, recog-
nising him in Charleroi, informed the colonel,
who told them to get their man dead or
alive. A few nights afterwards they found
him in one of the most lurid dens in Char-
leroi. Recognition was mutual. As “Ogla-
mite” says, Broncho died from a slight delay
in drawing his automatic. He missed several
times, while the officers scored three in the
region of the heart and lungs. He had a
quick passage. I know, because I was on
town picquet that night and arrived on the
spot within three or four minutes of the
shots. Incidentally, at that time Charleroi
harbored as pretty a collection of army crim-
inals as could be found on the Continent.
If Duntroon had to justify its existence
the job could almost be done on the per-
formances of one of its graduates alone —
Major L. J. Wackett, D.F.C., a veteran of
22 when the war ende.d. His inventions in-
clude :
(1) Improved mounting for Lewis-guns in aero-
planes.
(2) Improved mounting for pairs of Lewis-guns in
anti-aircraft work.
(3) Improved sights for Lewis-guns.
(4) An automatic fuse-setter for shells.
(5) The first practicable scheme for supplying the
firing-line with ammunition by aeroplane.
Wackett first .attracted notice in Egypt by
keeping his 'plane in the air when all others
were damaged and waiting for spare parts.
The War Office. commandeered him, and he
has been on special work ever since. Dun-
troon cannot claim credit for his brains, but
its engineering shop and science laboratory
developed them.
A few years back Lewis Deer, inspector
of N. S. Wales Public Service, was with a
N. S. Wales teachers’ cricket team that
toured Maoriland. At Rotorua, where the
hot springs and other warm goods come
from, a dance was given for the pleasure of
the strangers. At the fag-end of the show
Deer affably offered to see the belle of the
ball home. That soft, brown maiden looked
him in the face. “Who told you about me?’’
she said.
The abduction of the 13-year-old grand-
daughter of Nathan Thorn ley. M.L.C. (Vic.),
while her guardian's back was turned at
Albury recently, recalls the spiriting away
of the small daughter of a Bondi resident
in December, 1918. Two women were im-
prisoned over the matter, though both denied
that they knew anything of the child’s where-
abouts. They were lately released, but the
youngster is still “missing,” and the police
are no nearer the solution of the mystery
than they were a year ago.
“Ox”: The world loved Adelina Patti’s
liquid notes, and Adelina loved the world’s.
When she contracted to appear for Colonel
Mapleson she stipulated that the cash should
be paid over in her dressing-room before she
sang. One evening, through an oversight,
the money was not available, and Mapleson
sent round his cheque. Patti sent it back
in her slipper, with the message that the
other was on her foot, but she wouldn’t be
able to go on till its mate came back. It
went back, a trifle late, stuffed with notes.
David Maughan, a new “silk” of the
Sydney Bar, is a grandson of John Thomp-
son, Deputy Surveyor-General of N. S.
Wales, who built the second house in
Y\ oolloomooloo. He married a daughter of
Edmund Barton.
One of the first
appointments made
by the Speck’s new
Public Service Com-
missioner Gelli brand
was that of G. V.
Brooks as head of
the Education De-
partment, in succes-
sion to W. T. McCoy,
who goes to South
Aus. Brought over
from S. Aus. by
W, L. Neale, Brooks
started at the bottom
of the ladder, but of
late has fathered
most of the young
teachers who have
passed into the pro-
fess i o n. Out of
school he plays a
good game of tennis,
and, with a partner,
won the doubles
championship of the
island last year.
G. V. BROOKS,
the Speck’s new
Director of
Education.
“Centurion”: Writing of his adventures
after capture by the Turks in Palestine, an
English flying officer tells that when he
arrived at the Bagdad-Constantinople rail-
way line, he found that the works foremen
and overseers were invariably British prison-
ers with Turks working under them. An
English private was head of the big stores
branch with many clerks, mostly Greeks,
and the paymaster for the whole show,
“handling many thousands of pounds weekly.”
was an Australian. Any record of this
chap’s name and number?
A YEAR AGO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“An ex-Colonel of a famous English battalion is
a steward on a recently-arrived transport.”
A year ago the Mess stood up before I took my seat;
And now I oil the swivel-chairs and keep my table
neat,
And carry food to junior subs, on swift, attentive
■ feet.
A year ago ! A year ago! I ruled a thousand men.
Their lives were mine to dice with, and a movement
of my pen
Had thrust the proudest of them out beyond his
world’s stern ken.
That was a year ago. To-day I clean six cabins out,
And hurry at the double when I hear their initiates
shout.
I am their humble servitor—part housemaid and part
tout.
A year ago! A year ago ! But memory is pain,
And I must drown my pride in hope, however faint
or vain,
That England in her time of need may call for me
again.
N.S.W.
D. B. J.
AN OLD STORY.
[For The Bulletin.]
Some men are prone to good advice —
They always have it on the ice.
They say to me, they sav to you:
“Old man, you’ll tumble in the stew !
You ought to try to do your whack,
Or Life will send you to ihc pack.’’
I ponder over what they say
As I trail on from day to day....
I never see them lend a hand,
Nor find them on the battle-stand.
When some poor- wretch is down and out
These good-advice men have the gout.
N.S.W.
J. B.


sasaaiaa
■
i
■
•• Ht ’■
•vvX*K>X*wvwW*
f
o
'^Os=dl^o^vl^t=al>«^
(U 5)
%
It 0 ©
oocflOß 0
'OOOOOOOOOOOOQCQGec o
■
■
The steel made from Australian
ores at the Newcastle Steel
Works is equal to the finest
made in any part of the world.
Above illustration shows, in cross section, some of the products; ntadi2 at Newcastle.


LESLI E‘
SALT LICKS
for all animals
CJgain available
Cheaper(han ever]
ft '
1
I
sRb
V
N
1
&
M
|\v
4f|
~c«
V
XX
iM
§S
Ml
■?>
P^s
■->.:
ii"
:
*$88
spiMsiSs
yts
'
mm
mm
Now, once again, you can get the genuine
“Leslie” Salt Licks—the super-tonic and
condition-builder for all animals.
They are pure, vitalising, health building
Licks, free from injurious Lime and Gypsum,
free from Grit, Sulphates, Chloride of Mag-
nesium and like adulterants. “Leslie” Licks
are the pure sun-dried sea salt of South
Australia, compressed into smooth, compact
marble-hard blocks, each 51b. in weight.
Cheaper in the long run than rock-salt -
purer than any imitation lick.
HANG IT
BY THE
Biplane, Westcourt, Desert Gold and other famous Racers, and
all the famous Dairy Herds and Sheep of Australia, thrive on
“Leslie” Salt Licks. Beware of imitations.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
AT PORT AUGUSTA, S.A.
Obtainable from Storekeepers, Produce Merchants,
Saddlers and Blacksmiths in every district throughout
Australasia.
Pan on Strike.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
All voiceless are these glades of Pan,
His pipe is but a memory ;
But pale leaves whisper of him still,
His silver hoof-beats foam the sea ;
And thus there comes a hint to me
From budding boughs that bring the bee,
From lonely haunts where lurks the shrike—
The great god Pan has gone on strike!
On strike against the last award
Of rank commercialism’s pride !
On strike against the purchased pen
Where once green pixies swmng astride!
On strike against the creed that tried
To drag free Fancy’s chosen bride
Where compromise with miser arms
Could price and tabulate her charms!
The dryads grieve unseen for Pan
As ringbarked trees, unwreathed and bare;
The naiads murmur by the creek,
Tall grasses mourn him everywhere,
For Pan was merry-mouthed and fair.
But heart o’ me! why should he care?
A blue sky gives him all he needs;
You cannot bribe his pipe of reeds!
Oh ! Shall we ever arbitrate
To meet him on an equal ground?
’Tis hard to buy what has no price
As many a millionaire has found.
And Pan can range a whole world round.
From floating isles his pipe will sound
When some white water w-itch is crowned;
Or at the blue forgotten edge
Of our neglected forest land
The stars may mirror in his eyes,
A blossom break beneath his hand :
A dance the bower-birds have planned
Grow gayer at his tune’s command ;
A red-tongued dingo peer to see
The reason of such minstrelsy!
The twisted roots along the road
Are coated grey in summer dust.
The swamp is desert from the heat;
Bold ants go laboring on its crust.
And dreams are frayed and lances rust
That once for high Romance were thrust,
And money talks, with hidden pike—•
No wonder Pan has gone on strike!
queensland.
M. FORREST.
The Big Box.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHEN our boy came home from
Palestine a month or two ago
wearing a bunch of emu feathers
in his hat, my memory flew to a similar
bunch that was in “the Big Box” at home.
The Big Box was old, very old, when we knew
it first. It seemed to us children that the
world must have been very much younger
when it was made. It v had been in the
house since before we were born. Originally
painted red. it looked something like a
gigantic “J.D.K.Z.” gin-case. Only, instead
of those magic letters it had “Wm. Gill” in
white letters on the lid. William Gill had
been a shipmate of our mother’s, and the
box had been a gift when they landed in
Melbourne nearly 70 years ago.
In the Big Box were kept all sorts ot
odds and ends, trifles mostly, gathered in
nloving about the country in the pioneering
days. The emu feathers were the trophy
of' a killing in the Grampians not much
after 1860. My father worked in the sawmill
there—a mill that cyt most of the timber
from which the older parts of Hamilton and
Dunkeld were built. A very old book with
the “s’s” printed like “f’s” —“Ben Jonson s
Jests” —was in the box, I remember, away
down at the bottom. The binding of it had
broken at the back, and part of the inside
lining was the fragment of an old map or
New Holland. The south-eastern corner of
Australia was visible. _ showing the con-
tinent joined to Tasmania.
And there was a thing we used to shudder
at a little when the key was turned and
the lid thrown open. It was a small phial
of arsenic, tightly corked, with an old kid-
glove finger drawn over the cork, a relic ot
days when it was necessary to keep poison
for wild dogs and sometimes for possums.
They were so bold they came into the bush
huts for scraps of food. And because the
unknown is the terrible, they had to be got
rid of. Who knew what unsuspected wicked-
ness ’possums might not do?
In a till across one end of the box there
were handfuls of queer relics; and a secret
drawer under the till contained letters,
photos, locks of hair and other precious
scraps, some of them the only remaining links
between the old land and the new.
The Big Box travelled over much ot the
Western district of Victoria, always by road,
generally on a bullock-dray. From the Vic-
toria Range at the west end of the Gram-
pians it went to Hamilton. It was there
about 1805, when, so they said, the squat-
ters dummied land in the names of then-
working bullocks if there were not enough
trusty human dummies to go round. VV hen
Adam Lindsay Gordon rode in the Great
Western Steeplechase at Coleraine in ISoo,
the box was there; and still there when
Louis Buvelot painted “The Waterpool at
Coleraine” in 1869. Indeed, Buvelot and
the box were in the same house. It had a
sojourn on Henty’s Merino Downs station
during 1870; thence to Digby, on the main
road to Portland. The wool and wattle-bark
from the back country all went to Portland
by road-teams from 50 to 80 years ago.
And hop-growing was a nice little industry in
the Digby district. There were flour mills
in many of the district towns. Now not a
mill exists in “Australia Felix,” as Major
Mitchell named the south-west of Victoria.
The big city has eaten them.
The Big Box is now very old. It is not
much use. But, somehow, it seems to me
it has its value. So I am going to hand it
over to the emu-crested soldier. He is going
to be married. His future wife is William
Gill’s granddaughter. They only found it
out recently when comparing family history.
The “Wm. Gill” on the box must be re-
painted.
HUFFIN-GUFFIN.


414 A
rs
<§&
/PL
Non- SKid
TIRES
Helpful Hints
Worth Having.
Attend to Cuts in Tyres.
Better to repair them whilst small .
Unrepaired Cuts grow rapidly.
Ruin your Read —Ruin
your Tyre.
Take every opportunity to thor-
oughly examine your Tyres —-
DON'T neglect the beads.
Examine the Bearings
in your wheels. Keep them in good
order. If there's no “ whip" you
won't risk “ scrubbing" out the
treads.
Don’t leave Car stored
with Tyres fully inflated
jack your car up and partially
deflate the tyres.
Ride on Air—not Rubber
Under inflation causes much extra
tyre expense.
When it’s time to re-tyre
Buy “ Fisk ” Tyres—
The wheel equipmen t par excellence.
Make Driving “Safe”
“Safe” because of the long mileage and trouble-
less travel their STRENGTH and TOUGHNESS
secures, and “safe” from skid or side-slip on the
trickiest of roads because of their unique and
POSITIVE NON-SKID TREAD. There is no
secret behind the service which Fisk Tyres give—
their superiority is due to the sheer quality of the
rubber and fabric used and to the ingenious
machinery of unvarying accuracy which results in
every “Fisk” Tyre being mechanically perfect.
As a consequence of these qualities Fisk Tyres
are CONSISTENT in performance.
Extra Mileage is BUILT
into EVERY “FISK” Tyre
and this means MORE miles of tyre service
for every car fitted with them.
AsR Your Garag'e
to Supply “FisKs.”
OBTAINABLE IN ALL SIZES.
Sole Agents for Australia:
James Wardle & Co., Adelaide.
DISTRIBUTORS:—
James Wardle & Co., Victoria Square, Adelaide.
Fisk Tyre Agency, 4 Bridge Street, Sydney.
John F. Goulding, 515 Collins Street, Melbourne.
W. F. S. Bardon, Hay Street, Perth.


A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding Wristlet
Watch, full jewelled, lever movement, compensation
balance, £7/10/-
Others, £4, £5/10/-, £6/10/-, £B/10/-, £lO,
£l2/10/-, £l5. ' ’ ’
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Silver Hunting
Lever, extra qualitv movement. £3
£3/10/-. £4/10/-, £5, £6,
£7/10/-, Guaranteed-
A. Saunders’. Lady;s 9ct. Gold .Expanding Wristlet Watch,
full jewelled, lever movement, compensation balance, £lO
15ct. Gold, £l5. Extra jewelled, £lO/10/-, Guaranteed.’
A. Saunders' Lady’s
Wristlet Watch, full
jewelled, lever movement,
compensation balance,
Solid Gold, £6/10/-,
Guaranteed.
■
XI&IUiSHH
mam
. :■'■;/
m *
wmm
■Mi
MOV.'*
1
ft J
B&ggz&!tsm
A. Saunders’ 1 Solid Gold Plain Elgin or
Waltham, lever movement, £lO. Heavier
Cases, £l2/10/-. 14ct. Gold, £l5.
18ct., £2O, £25, £3O, Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’ Nickel or Gunmetal Centre Seconds
Lever Watch Wristlet, jewelled movement, £2.
Extra jewelled, £2/10/-. Silver, £3, £3/10/-
A. SAUNDERS,
JEWELLER,
: 805-815 George Street, -Sydney.
Opposite Railway Station.
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s
Open-face Wristlet,
35/-, 30/-
Solid Silver, £2,
£2/10/-
Gold-fllled, £3/10/-,
£4/10/-
9ct. Gold, £5, £5/10/-,
£6/10/-, £7/10/-,
Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding Wristlet
Watch, full jewelled, lever movement, £B/10/»
Extra jewelled, £lO,
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s High-grade Nickel
Lever, 25/-, 307-
Extra jewelled, 35/-, 40/-, 50/-
A. Saunters' Lady’s Solid 9ct. Gold Patent Expanding
"Wristlet Watch, full jewelled, lever movement, t mpensa-
tion balance, £B/10/-
Extra jewelled, £lO. 15ct. Gold, £l5.
Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co.
(Tas.) :—-
Written
Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
Sept., £ £ £ £
1909. . 286,092 17* p.c.= 210,000 20,083 661,198
1910. . 226,092 17* „ „ 210,000 20,223 657,067
1911. . 174,417 12* „ „ 150,000 19,432 662,052
Premiums on new shares, £21,685 653,737
1912. . 147,683 6£ p.c.= 75,000 20,690 735,730
1913.. 58,476 Nil 64,987 729,219
Premiums on new shares, £738 .. 729,957
1914.. 113,536 Hi p.c.= 144,884 25,872 672,737
1915.. 273,989 5 „ „ 64,460 100,506 781,760
Written off mine property. . 168,088 613,672
1916.. 280,563* 16i p.c.= 209,494 42,249 642,492
1917.. 318,333* 12* „ „ 161,149 49,722 749,954
1918.. 357,625* 16i „ „ 209,494 99,492 798,593
1919.. 215,203 6i „,, 80,575 85,325 847,89<j
* After providing’ for War-time Profits Tax.
Twelve months ago The Bulletin doubted
whether the 1916 and 1917 profits had not
suffered as a result of too deep a cut having
been made for taxation. That suspicion is
now confirmed by the latest accounts. No
taxation has been charged against the past
year’s revenue, “the unexpended balance of
amounts appropriated in previous years being
more than sufficient to cover the taxes on
the year’s profits.” So when comparing the
disclosed net profits for the past four years
the fact must not be overlooked that pro-
bably the 1918 and certainly the latest
figures have benefited at the expense of
earlier years. Twelve months ago Lyell
had £268,000 set aside for taxation, but ap-
parently £103,081 has been called for during
the year. Disclosed net profits also depend
upon the vigor with which oevelopment is
being undertaken, and also on the clips which
are made for depreciation and for new plant.
This table shows the extent to which sur-
pluses have been tapped for these various
purposes over the past four years:—
1916. 1917. 1918. 1919.
Development
outlay .. £36,895 £32,435 £18,023 £10,625
Depreciation of
mine plant, etc. 42,248 49,722 50,397 50,325
New plant ap-
propriations 49,095 35,000
Taxation . . 167,767 180,634 64,403 Nil
£246,910 £262,791 £181,918 £95,950
Net profit .. 238,314 268,611 258,133 129,878
Total . . £485,224 £531,402 £440,051 £225,828
That gives a better view of how last year’s
profits were made up. Incidentally, the
latest P. and L. account includes a credit
of £10.905 representing the unexpended por-
tion of £60,000 appropriated for new plant
in 1918; so the first table has been amended
to include this amount among the 1918 re-
serves, and current profit does not show it.
But even the net profit of £129,878 shown
for the past year is nothing more than book
profit and depends entirely on the basis of
valuation of stocks. No information is given
of the quantities of metal on hand at the
balancing dates, nor is evidence forthcoming
as to the values on which stocks have been
included. If the heavy accumulations realise
more than the figure at which they are shown
in the books, the actual profit for the past
year may have been greater than appears.
On the other hand, the term may have bene-
fited in the same way from surpluses in
excess of book values of stocks shown in the
1918 balance-sheet.
Lyell was one of the very few copper
shows in the Commonwealth which did not
suspend operations when the war prices for
the metal collapsed. Nevertheless the co. has
had its own local troubles which have cur-
tailed production. Shortage of labor and the
’flu resulted in this falling-off:—
1916. 1917. 1918. 1919.
Ore mined (tons) 334,890 260,379 264,542 210,193
Blister produced
(tons).. .. 6,576 5,832 5,773 5,377
Contents —
Copper (tons) 6,505 5,766 5,705 5,314
Silver (oz.) .. 371,170 295,126 320,344 266,864
Gold (oz.) . . 8,865 7,455 7,042 5,538
Of the 210,193 tons the old Mt. Lyell mine
outputted 118,359 tons, North Lyell 76,058
and Comstock 15,588. The whole of the
Comstock production and 14,917 tons North
Lyell ore (assaying 4.74 p.c. copper, .89oz.
silver and .008 oz. gold) were put through
the flotation plant, which behaved very well,
recovering 90.41 p.c. of the copper (compared
with 88.06 p.c. for 1918), 77.79 p.c. of the
silver (74.25 p.c. in 1918) and 72.41 p.c. of
the gold (over 4 p.c. better than in the pre-
vious year). The grade of ore treated bv
the smelters last year from the North Lyell
showed a big improvement over the assay
values of five years ago :
Mt. Lyell. North Lyell.
r~ r~
1914. 1919. 1914. 1919.
Copper, p.c 47 .40 6.05 7.55
Silver, oz 1.71 1.20 1.14 194
Gold, oz 045 .04 .005 .01
The ores in the North Lyell 41 and 49 stopes
in the bottom level were the sweeteners.
Good developments continue to show up
in that mine. The down continuation of the
ore at the stope 49 has been proved by two
bores, one drill passing through 43ft. 'high-
grade stuff and 10ft. fair-grade ore, and an-
other through 24ft. high-grade material. The
most important development, however, has
been at 925 ft., where work at the No. 2
north drive has proved considerable additions
to reserves. No fresh estimate of ore re-
serves has been made during the year, but
in round figures Mt. Lyell can be said to
have two million tons available, averaging .5
p.c. copper, 1.330 z. silver and .005 oz. gold.
These tonnages are approximately the same
as five years ago, but the developments of
the past term have not been included in the
latest figures. On the basis of a quarter
of a million tons production per annum there
is thus at least 12 years’ work ahead, apart
from any new ore bodies that may be opened
up.
Lyell’s costs have, of course, bounded
ahead during the war period, but owing to
smaller tonnages hauled last year the bill
was probably heavier than it would have
been if production had been nearer normal.
This compares the costs per ton of ore of
producing blister: —
... . 191-1. 191 S. 1919.
Mining.. .. 10s. 2.97 d. 13s. l.lOd. 16s. 4.36 d.
Smelting (ine.
concentration) 9s. 2-.74d. 14s. 0.71 d. 17s. 2.93 d.
Bessmerising .. is. 8.82 d. Is. 11.59 d. Is. 7.92 d.
21s. 2.53 d. 295. 1.70 d. 355. 3.21 d.
The cost per ton of blister is now appa-
rently close upon £6l, compared with £46
five years ago. The co. thus faces a peace
market on a basis entirely different from
that on which it set out to earn fancy war
prices. In other words, something better
than the pre-war market will be necessary
to provide shareholders with divs. (from
copper) on the same scale as in the pre-
war days.
What the war has meant to Lyell can be
summed up briefly in this way : Shareholders
in five years have had 56£ p.c. in divs.;
meantime the surplus of liquid assets (stocks,
sundry debtors, stores and cash) over lia-
bilities has grown from £265,679 to £702,879,
almost equal to a further 34 p.c. on capital.
Besides these very liquid assets there are
in investments in other cos., £107,669
(mostly Mt. Read and Rosebery) ; the co.’s
chemical works at Yarraville and Fremantle,
£169,940; railways and rolling stock,
£208,071; and plant and sundry other fixed
assets, £330,933. With the mine property
(book value. £700.000) there are net assets
totalling £2.222.962 to represent the paid
capital of £1,289,195.
* * * *
Prime Minister Hughes is quite modest in
his claims to have “settled” the metal
problem compared with the assertions made
on his behalf in a “Speakers’ Handbook”
published by the Nationalists. Dealing with
Mr. Plughes’s “triumph” it says that
under the direction of the Prime Minister the Federal
Government has rescued the metal trade of Aus-
tralia from the awful curse of the German cancer,
and has organised the great metal industry.
It is safe to say that, owing to the efforts of the
Commonwealth Government, the position of the Aus-
tralian producers was as good as, if not better than,
that of producers in any other country.
Then follows a list of the metal industries
which have been established or expanded as
a result of Mr. Hughes’s genius. Here is
one brilliant sample
In addition to these works [Associated Smelters
at Port PirieJ a large silver, gold and lead refinery
has been erected and put into operation during the
war period at Cockle Creek (N.S.W.).
Surely the Prime Minister and his party
have no need to resort to such exaggeration
and misrepresentation to win the elections?
Because F. S. Stephens, a Sydney subur-
ban builder, reckons that with a capital of
£lO,OOO 80 cottages per annum can be built
to show a net profit of £s6oo—though de-
tailed figures are not furnished in the pros-
pectus—the Stephens Modern Homes Build-
ing Co., Ltd., is projected. Mr. Stephens
has consented to be managing-director for
three years for £1250 per annum, and a 15
p.c. cut of profits remaining after 10 p.c.
divs. have been paid. There are to be no
vendors’ or promoters’ shares, and the
existing plant is to be lent free of
charge for three years, and then taken over
at valuation. The secretary, who is a
"chartered secretary” and should know
better, in a covering letter describes the
enterprise as “a guilt-edged security,” and
is ‘‘quite certain” that there will bh “good
dividends.”
* * * *
. “Hundred Per Cent. Australian” (New
York): Tahiti, one of the Society Islands,
has been held by France since 1840, and is
indeed one of its most valuable, but not
most valued, possessions. The island is
remarkably fertile, and could be made to
grow every tropical and sub-tropical product.
Papeete is the chief village, and its trade
is likely to increase greatly through an in-
vasion of Americans hunting copra, which in
this city has touched £53 a ton. A Yankee
co. connected with the linseed-oil business
has sent its president and engineer to the
island to erect a mill, stores and wharves
and push trade. Much of the business has been
done by Chinese and Japs, who infest Tahiti,
but American capital is reaching out. I’m
told there will soon be from 100 to 150 ves-
sels collecting copra for Papeete and flying
the Stars and Stripes. I call the attention
of M.L. and Australian firms to the new
competition. 8., P. and Co. and Lever Bros,
at present do the biggest part of the trade,
and their supremacy is going to be seriously
challenged. They will have to realise that
the drying, at any rate, is no longer an in-
dustry to be left to the cafe of beachcombers
and lazy natives. *
* * * *
“Gouger” : The alluvial tin-buyer is a very
wary bird nowadays. Mixing metallic iron
with the tin is a played-out dodge, and you
rarely have any better luck if you use shot.
For assay purposes a long, thin, grooved
piece of iron used to be thrust down the
centre of the bag, the groove holding suffi-
cient tin for an assay sample. Some
“shrewdies” quickly saw their chance*. They
left a core of good tin and filled round it
with sand, and in some cases metallic iron,
finally covering the top of the bag with
good stream-tin. Of course, this was soon
found out. Only recently I saw a fearfully
indignant Cooktown tin-buyer. An outside
tin-scratcher sent in a bag of tin to a Chinese
storekeeper. John, smelling a rat, offered
the lot to an ore-buyer. Opening the bag
the buyer emptied the contents into a tub.
Out rolled some nice stream-tin, and from
the bottom of the bag a 101 b. lump of lead,
a couple of bed-castors and several years’
collection of old bolts and nails. The Chink
only just managed to save his life.
* * * *
Though London financial newspapers ad
vised gamblers not to lose their heads over
Hampton Plains (W.A.), latest files show the
extent to which speculators plunged. Within
less than a month the market valuation of
Hampton Properties, Ltd., which owns
Block 50, on which the Celebration is
situated, was run up from £0250 at Gd. per
share to £918,000 at 51s. per share. Som<-
thing similar will probably happen when
the Celebration is floated.
[Harold Burston, 214 George-street, Sydney.]


H® 1
mmm mm
mm,
; ■■■.;■ ■ .:.; ■
■'
i :\
V.
! 1. \
II j
:-■■ i
u
m
■
I. \
mm 1
' <* ?!
- -
//I / 1 11.
,
lifSillil
i mmmm
Ki
i ■ ■>'.. -
m i
M :•
'w h
w
■ ' .•■■;■
l \
.■•tv J
I - .dp
m
r-JPj
■
1
: % i
*
Usa
V;';.;,: ■■■■
u
...
m
: r , ~
:
M#!
■ ■ i^mbi
■
i .:■■;
'
■
■ ■■:'.'■■■
B
»hi
iiphksphf
.;
. V- . -r.
SliglMißii
■ '.
.
i ■
■
*1311?!
. ■ :
■
mmMMSmmMI®
SH H
&H
£ s
. : ■;',
IfillllP
Bl®Bi
K
.
-
■
BSR 8
•••;• V
/•••" ' ■ ";/•■
m '
■ ; :
H 1 1
mm
: ■'
I I I
||ffl
: :; V-
. ''V.
■■■' :'
CSt
rz.
a
You Have Tried the Other Lights*
ARE YOU SATISFIED?
If you could have ELECTRIC LIGHT for ONE-
FOURTH the cost of operating your oil lamp,
would it not be worth while? Delco-Light
does this and makes the home more attractive.
4000 PLANTS SOLD IN JULY.
SOLE AGENTS:
NEW SOUTH WALES: Warburton, Franki, Ltd., 307-311 Kent Street,
Sydney.
VICTORIA and TASMANIA: Warburton, Franki, Ltd., 380-381 Bourke
Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Smellie & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Parsons & Robertson, Ltd., Grenfell St., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Geo. Wills & Co., Perth.
NEW ZEALAND: A. D. Riley & Co., Wellington.
~ „ Farmers’ Co-op., Christchurch.


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE-
-329 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH .IUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
Hotel do Luxe .
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL. Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROI/NDS, surrounded by NATURAL
BUSH.
25 NEW BEDROOMS built over the water—
every room looking out to the Heads.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty. Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from Mos-
man. Amphitheatre Swimming
Baths. Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Tariff from 12/6 per day or
£3/10/- per week.
Tel. Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
King George IV
WHISKY
th e‘TOP NOTCH’scotch
A SAFE PROTECTOR
ABORIGINAHTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
HU S DEFINITION.
“’Nd I said, a wowser’s a coot a bloke
wouldn’t like ter be seen drink in ’ with,
even if the coot drank."
“Soleii tes”: Up here in the Clarence
River district (X.S.W.) there are thousands of cor-
morants of different varieties, the white-breasted
black (Phalacrocorax gouldi) being by far the most
numerous, and years of observation have convinced
me that their principal food is the estuary or eel-
tailed catfish (Cnidoglanis megastomus). The fish
travels in schools of veiy close formation, or “balls,”
to use the fishermen’s term, at certain periods of
the year, and immense flocks of cormorants concen-
trate on the banquet. At other times the birds spread
over the shallows in the Broadwater and Woolawayeh
lakes expanses of water seven or eight miles square
and separately pursue the slippery atrocity remorse-
lessly. I have observed them reducing the eel-
tailed fish, winter and summer. I must admit that
I have seen c-ormorants on rare occasions consuming
immature flounder and flathead, but the damage in
this respect is not very great.
* * * #
“Blacktown”: Here's a preventive of
distemper in dogs. Take a penny and hammer it into
a lump, enclose in a piece of meat, and force down
the dog’s throat. The copper gradually dissolves in
the stomach. I have owned lots of tykes, dosed
them all like this while in the puppy stage, and
never had one suffer with distemper. A dog-owning
dentist first gave me the idea.
“Gouger”: A dark night, and very still.
An abo. camp, away up on the Starcke River (N.Q.).
One large gunyah in the centre of the camp, where
sleep the young unmarried gins. Surrounding the
maidens’ quarters are the
gunyahs of the married
people. Camping in any
old spot, but outside the
sacred centre, are the
young bucks. One Romeo,
the fires of love burning
hot within him, sneaks
carefully on his hands and
knees between the gun-
yahs, making straight for
the girls’ quarters. Listen-
ing quietly at the black
entrance-hole he hears only
gentle breathing coming
from inside. Entering
noiselessly, by some mys-
terious instinct he grabs
his love from the sleeping-
group, and before she has
time to yell he has her to the gun-
yah entrance. Immediately all the
single gins are on him, some trying
to drag the captive away, some
tackling Romeo with teeth, hands and
yam sticks. The night is hideous
with the awful yelling. The buck
half-throttles his love with one hand,
to prevent her biting a piece out of
him, and dodges the blows of the
other gins as best he can, now and
then getting one home on his assail-
ants by butting his head in their
faces. If he manages to get his
choice into his own gunyali, then he
is married; but if the young gins
can drag her back into their gun-
yah, then the adventurer has to try
his luck all over again some other
/night, and the whole tribe wilfl
laugh at him in the morning. Con-
sequently in these little ceremonies a lot of skin
and hair flies on both sides. The married abos.
take no part in the proceedings. It’s not their
affair.
* * * *
‘•J.S.T.*’: Binglu was rummaging round
the rubbish-tip when a bottle slung out of a
window hit him on the head and then glanced on to
his arm. Looking up he sang out: “Hey, boss,
that no good! Might break a bloke’s plurry arm.”
* * *
162 < : The crowd had been spreading
itself concerning dogs till a stranger
claimed a say. “We used to have
an old cattle-dog named Jack, who
always knew onr beasts as yvell as
an 3' of us. On one occasion we were
returning with eight out of nine miss-
ing steers, and had camped for the
night close to a travelling lot. About
10 o’clock we heard a great commo-
tion umongst the travelling mob, but
could find nothing wrong, so made
back to bunk again. Old Jack was
then sitting by the fireside. - We had
hardly dozed off when bellowing set
us off to the cattle .again. In the
darkness we could see a mysterious
light moving about. We’d see a flare,
and then would come a sudden bellow -
As we got ' closer this ■ weird light
started moving round and round one
particular steer. . We could scarcely
believe our own eyes, for there was
old Jack looking as pleased as could
be. fie was holding a firestiek in
his mouth, and from the appearance
of' the long-haired beasts around, he’d
singed more than half of them in search of this
one of ours that had strayed.” ,
* * * %
“Stripper”: What is the thickest black-
wattle bark any bushwacker has seen ? Whilst, work-
ing in the Gippsland bush round and between
Swifts Creek and Bruthen I have stripped it from
Uin. to 2in. thick- Some trees average from, five to
six hundredweight—and there’s good money in that
at £lO per ton.
“Camelero” : A camel never forgets an in-
jury. Two Maorilanders in the Camel Corps at El
Arish (Sinai) tormented one by coiling a rope around
its legs and tipping it over. Two days later, when
one of the men placed a bag of feed before the
beast, it grabbed him by the arm and almost severed
the limb from the body. That Digger died next
day. We captured a fine big camel from the Senussi,
but it took a dislike to Billjim and refused bo
work. One morning I was detailed to take it with
several others to graze on a field of barley. The
surly brute tried to get away, and when I attempted
to drive it back it charged. I reached the nearest
date-palm half an inch ahead of the pursuer. A
week later I took the same camel to another field
Placing a guard, I decided to have a sleep. Just
when I was dreaming that I was cutting out my
long-promised leave in Cairo, I was awakened hy
the sound of galloping. I had- just time to secure
my rifle and dodge behind a boulder as
my old enemy dashed at me. I had to shoot him
“Billy T.”: Tom Crossby had been miss-
ing for a half-day and a night, and it was Jerry
Crowther who found him by sheer luck while cross-
ing Held’s back paddock. He was down on his face
under a white gum that he had felled for a hive
now swarming about its shattered home. At first
glance Crowther concluded that Tom was dead and
done for, but at the sound of a voice he raised his
STATION EXPERIENCE.
“What is that hell on the cow's neck?"
“ Calf's lunch-hell.”
head and said: “Hello! For the love of God get me
out of this!” Tom had escaped death by a
miracle; a buckle in the trunk of the tree had saved
him. He was firmly gripped, however, and there
were broken ribs and other injuries, but nothing-
desperate. “The best thing I can do,” said Crow-
ther, “is to bolt across for help and axes. I’ll drop
in as I’m going and tell your missus.” Jerry was
off. Tom called after him faintly.- “Hold hard,”
he said. “Better not tell the missus. See, I bin
out all night, and it don’t do for me not to be able
to dodge a bit when she and me has a row.”
“Chloe”: The most solitary job in Aus-
tralia is that 'of the lighthouse keeper at Jarman
Island, off Shark’s Bay (W.A.). Once a month the
Government steam launch leaves him provisions at
the nearest safely-accessible point, but only on rare
occasions does he meet the crew,, for the
islet , is, set in the midst of a labyrinth
of shifting sand and sharp-toothed reefs.
, One- keeper was there with a young wife
and a blackfellow and, his gin to bear
them company. Three children were
hprn, and reared on the islandduring a
- period of seven years, during , which
time neither dad nor mum left. The
family had co illness, and the children
were remarkably intelligent. Another
lonely man kin the great Nor’-West set-
tled at Tabba Tabba Springs, about half-
way from Port; Hedland to Marble Bar,
before the railway was thought of. The
Springs make an oasis in a very bad
stretch of country. There, with two
cats for his comrades, this hermit squat-
ted. His camp was about 30 miles from
the nearest station. How he lived is a
mystery. When Tabba Tabba was a
stop for the mail-coach during the boom
days of Marble Bar - , the hermit became
widely known but never disclosed his
name. He was. well-informed, never was
seen to have any money, never received
letters. For clothes and food he de-
pended on the generosity of travellers,
yet it was not policy to offer anything
directly. Etiquette demanded that
clothes, groceries, a bottle of rum or whisky, fruit,
newspapers, etc., should be left surreptitiously on
the bunk in the serupulously-clean hut.
Zanthus”: The black or common night-
shade (Solatium nigrum) is supposed to be an intro-
duced weed, but if so it was one of the first, as
it was collected in Australia, growing apparently
wild, well over a century ago. It is sometimes re-
garded as highly poisonous, but this is mainly due
to confusion with the deadly nightshade (Atropa bel-
ladonna). Prof. Ewart (Melbourne) says that the
berries of the black nightshade have been used in
plum puddings instead of raisins without anyone bein°-
much worse than usual.
“Corsair”: Let “Cowboy” (B. 30/10/T9)
bo informed that the best cure for distemper is
common black gunpowder—half a teaspoonful in a
bit of meat given every other day. See that the dog
doesn’t shake most of the powder out. Make him
catch the bait if he will. When rearing dogs, on
the first sign of “gravy” eyes give them a dose. If
a little powder is given to the pup once a week
after it has been weaned a few weeks, the attack
it may get will be very mild.
* * * #
“L.C.R.” : Devastation amongst the furred
animals of the Speck has brought a request to the
Government for some sort of protection for the ring-
tailed ’possum and the wallaby. There is no close
season for either at present, and owing to the high
price that skins are fetching almost everybody who
knows the business-end of a gun has been having a
cut at them, particularly at the ’possum. There is
a howl, of course; but the Government needn’t be
afraid. Vandals years ago wiped the emu out of
the island and ail but exterminated the big kangaroo,
and even the trade doesn’t want the same thing to
happen to 'possum. Skins mean £50,000 a year
to the Speck.
* » * •
“Ragar”: Oblige me with the length of the
largest crocodile that has been located in Australia.
I met one that measured 18ft., and I never want
to come close to another of that size again. Recently
a man from the North told me that he had shot
specimens measuring between 30ft. and 40ft. He
became annoyed when I raised my hat to the yarn ;
but it has" left me wondering whether he's the best
liar wo’ve got.
“Leo Lear” : There is one physical feature
on the map of Australia that fascinates me. That is
Lake Amadeus. When I was at school it was marked
as an immense area (western boundary an indefinite
dotted worm) lying across the South Australian-
Westralian border on the tropical line. Its position
is now shown fully 160 miles S.E. of the old place,
and it has shrunk to a small pot-hole, about the size
of Ryan sitting on his accumulated deficits. Moving
hikes are worth encouraging, and if any .Abo. can
steer Amadeus into the terrible drought area in N. S.
Wales he will make Hughes and Ryan look as attrac-
tive as a pair of mushrooms.
* * * •
“FY7”: “Wandi” misses his step (B.
6/11/T9) when he talks of wedge-tailed eagles
flying in flocks about western N.S.W. homesteads, and
of station cooks feeding flocks of them at the kitchen-
door. The fowl “Wandi” has in mind is the com-
mon brown or carrion kite, which has a world-wide
distribution. This fellow is on the staff of every
■station killing-yard, arid is one of the best’ of
feathered garbage-destructors. A.I.F. men will remem-
ber how these kites thronged the outskirts of the
camps around Cairo and the pretty name bestowed
on them by the Diggers. The mighty wedge-tail,
greatest of all the eagles, is as proud and shy as
all his family. No cadging around homesteads for
him. An improvement on “Wandi’s” method of
shaking up kites by baited fish-hooks is to make a
bit of flesh very hot and chuck it into the air. The
HOW HE DIED.
LIEUT. FULLUP (after the 116th inquiry):
“He teas eatin' his ration of horse-
meat, — see? —when one of the drivers
sings out ‘Whoa-back!’ and the tally
stuff stopped in his throat and choked
him."
kite, liaving grabbed it, is too much of a damphoo)
to let go, and streaks for the horizon hanging on
to his prize, and squealing “Never again! Never
again !”
(Continued on page 26.)
TRAVEL SONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Come, let us take the track, old friend, while yet ’tis
early morning.
Be sure the joyous earth was made for this new sun's
adorning.
We’ll ride away from panting crowds that surge
through yonder town.
Nor shall we two return again until the sun goes
down. *
’Tis many years since you and I have seen a land
so fair.
The day is young and sweet indeed,
So let us saddle up and speed
From poverty and care.
Across a land whose barren hills red strife was ever
rending
We rode through days of bitterness, when death was
aye impending;
But have we not defeated all those ancient wrongs
and woes
That smote us on the desert where the wind of sor-
row blows ?
Yea, all is well with us again, and we are strong
and free;
So let us take the track and ride
Where song and happiness abide
In every lisping tree.
What time the swift hoofs beat a song- upon the
broken rubble,
We’ll seek the forest fastnesses, where limpid foun-
tains bubble ; •
And while the sun burns overhead, within the shade
of trees
We’ll watch the slender branches toss their blossoms
in the breeze;
And when the stars are kindled in the cloudless
vault above,
Perchance we’ll bless this perfect day
That lures us from the town away
To see the land we love.
N.s.W.
GERARDY.


Christmas Gifts
for Everybody
at PALING’S.
We are Sole
Agents for
CHAPPELL,
SAMES,
ESTEY
and
VICTOR
PIANOS;
Also ESTEY
* ORGANS.
Easy Terms.
; vTr-t,
HRISTMAS-TIME is drawing nearer, and you
probably need a new Piano. Don t forget the
dear children. What could possibly bring more
pleasure to your family than a Piano, Organ or
Player Piano, or to your friends than a Gramo-
phone, Grafonola, Violin, Banjo, Music Stool,
Music Stand, Mandolin, Concertina, or other Musical Instrument
—something that will bring gladness to their hearts, and will
last much longer than if you bought a tawdry article?
Our Enormous Business has been built
on a foundation of the BEST VALUE.
Remember, we choose only what we know to be the most
suitable goods for the Australian climate, based on our knowledge
of over 66 years.
If you are interested in any Musical Instrument we will
gladly give you the fullest information.
Each instrument is sold with the PALING GUARANTEE,
and on Easy Time-Payment if you wish. ✓
Catalogues are free for the asking. When writing please
mention the particular instrument you are interested in.
Make PALING’S your head-
quarters for your purchases
of “His Master’s Voice’’
GRAMOPHONES, and
COLUMBIA GRAFONOLAS,
Records, Needles, etc.
Let us send you our de-
scriptive Catalogues and
lists of New Records —they
are free for the asking.
PALING’S,
338 Georg'e Street, SYDNEY.
And at Brisbane, Toowoomba, Newcastle, Lismore.
s
“■0
> 5
f-
*
Be a Better Cook!
If you are still cooking in the old fashioned
way give it up!—be a Better Cook from to-
day onwards. Cook better scones and better
cakes, tastier trifles and more delicious
blanc-manges. It’s so simple !
Instead of using dairy milk, cook with
Nestle’s Milk ; you will be delightfully sur-
prised at the results and so will Hubby and
the children.
The “ Milky Way ” Book Teaches You Free 1
Write to Nestle’s, 347 Kent Street, Sydney, for
Free Copy of Valuable Book containing over 100
recipes for Better Cooking with
NESTLE’S
Condensed
condensed
; MILK'!!
IN AUSTRAL I *^
4 A y NC . L P SWISS CONDENSE
Melbourne,
R*l
HO» A
A| °e, Perth.
(Made in Australia)
NIBS


HQRRQCKSES'MORROCKSESViQRRQCKSES'
HORROCKSES'MORROCKSES'MORROCKSES' RORROCKSES I
fIORROCKSES'
Ml
mm
am,
m
{/y/ii/e /?/tzc&d /It/ S/icu/es
LI NGER! E DRESSES and BLOUSES
iHORROCKSES-MQRROCKSES’MORROCKSES'MORROCKSFS
MORROCKSEyMORROCKSES'MORROCnSES’K
V/////////////////AW//////A
Ensure protection against
contrasts of temperature by wearing
the British -made - ■
Under.wea r
Jason Garments give safety in all
weathers —never clammy, always com-
fortable and soft as silk.
New “Olympic** Brand.
Owing to the high prices of the yarns from which
Jason All-wool goods are made, the manufacturers
have introduced temporarily lower lines containing
a percentage of cotton —-bearing the same guarantee
of quality as the regular lines. Your dealer will
supply you. Sole manufacturers
Jason Underwear Co., Leicester, Eng.
Ab 70
The Oldest British Cocoa House.
FRY’S of BRISTOL (J. S. Fry & Sons,
Ltd.), date from the year 1728, having been
founded by Joseph Fry in a small house in
Small Street, Bristol. At that time the whole
of the Cocoa imported into England totalled
only a few thousand, lb. By 1908 it had
reached sixty million lb.
JOSEPH FRY was an acknowledged
Benefactor of the City of Bristol, and re-
ceived the freedom of the City; his sons fol-
lowed in his steps, and so the name of FRY
is honored wherever known.
Like all other British Manufacturers, Fry's
suffered severely from the War, which stop-
ped all their Export Trade. That is at an
end, and small shipments of Fry’s Cocoas
are now arriving. These include Fry’s Break-
fast Cocoa, on which has been concentrated
the experience of many years to produce a
beverage which leaves nothing to be desired
by the most fastidious palate, and possesses
rare nutritive qualities which render it the
ideal breakfast drink.
Fry’s Malted Cocoa possesses valuable
medicinal qualities, while Fry’s Homeopathic
Cocoa is in its class, “facile princeps.” These
Cocoas can now be obtained from all Grocers.
It is a matter of regret to very many that
tiie Commonwealth embargo still prevents
Fry’s Chocolates reaching the. Australian
Public. — Advt.
“D.F.”: Bolsheviks are largely in the
majority amongst the plant-immigrants to Australia.
A census taken in Vie. showed 364 alien plants which
might fairly be called naturalised. Of these 220
were useless and generally troublesome weeds. Only
32, mostly grasses and clovers, were really useful;
55 had some slight value as fodder plants, but not
very much; the odd 57 were hedge and garden plants
which had run wild but have not done much harm
so far. Of the 42 plants proclaimed in Vic. as
noxious weeds 37 were pommies.
“Pick”: The nulla-nulla, though intended
as a clublpng weapon, was much used in throwing.
Carved out of irenbark or other heavy hardwood, it
had not the usual club ball-lcnob, but from an
elongated point at the weighty end it tapered back
to a rounded handle, and the dusky armorer spent
more energy in smoothing and polishing it up than
he gave to any other weapon in the kit. As a pro-
jectile it wasn’t thrown direct. The thrower made
the weapon “cannon” from the top of a log, hum-
mock of earth or side of a tree, and the accuracy
with which he switchbacked the whirling missile to
his objeot was out-marvelled only by the distance
that he could send the timber.
* -X- * *
“Bill R.”: Next to the beer-pump the
principal attraction at a Braidwood (N.S.W.) pub is
a pet crow. He is mauve-colored, with a ruff under
his neck, and he has the legs and talons of a falcon.
Otherwise he is just plain crow. Is he a freak,
or does he belong to some part where they breed that
kind of Devil’s off-sider?
Wireless from the Murray bank :
Is there any inventor who can design a wire
spiral or other tool which will cause a hen to lay
eggs whose tops would screw off? The attachment
should fit inside the hen and automatically cut a
thread on one end of the egg. Reply paid.
♦ * * *
“Eccles”: I can beat the nominations of
“D.F.” (B. 6/11/’l9) for the longest place-name in
Vic. My entry is Boomahnoomoonah. Dunno what
the meaning of it is, ’but it used to be the address
of a pub (since destroyed) called “The Stinking
Goat.”
• * * *
“Cape Pork”: The abo. in the back
country up North is, to my thinking, the finest
natural athlete in the world. He is the best rider,
the best stayer, and his tracking stands unequalled
in any part of the world —and I have seen most of
the other races.
“Azac”: Saw a horse quickly cured of
the kicking habit in the following way. The owner,
having made sure that the fault was not due to
irritation of the feet caused by a parasite, stuffed
a bag with straw and sand and suspended it from
the ceiling of the stable just behind the horse.
The bottom of the bag was just a little below the
animal’s hocks, so that when he “lashed out” he
kicked the bag, which swung back and hit him.
Naturally he kicked again with increased vigor, and
this went on till he tired. -He soon learned that
kickihg only caused him trouble.
CIRCUMSTANTIAL EVIDENCE.
CORONER (to constable in motor case): “And how did you know the man was dead?"
CONSTABLE “Be the way he was breathin’, your W orchip."
“Zanthus”: A cheap and easy way of
seasoning eucalypt timber is available where there’s
a running creek handy. You shove the timber in,
and a fortnight under water does more to season a
log than a year in the upper air. There is not the
danger of warping and cracking that there is with
the other method. But don’t leave it in too long.
Some of the old-time Tasmanian shipbuilders used
to season timber this way; maybe it is still done
down there.
"D.F.”: That modest Australian, the
koala, was not discovered until 1803, according to
Robert Brown, the naturalist, and Governor King.
Brown, writing to Sir Joseph Banks, in September,
1803, states that a new animal, called by the natives
the coloq or coola, had lately been brought in from
the southward of Botany Bay. King, writing in the
same month, speaks of it as “another animal added
to the natural history of this country But
I much fear that their living on leaves alone will
make it difficult to send them to England.”
“Kitty Kitty”: Caught an extra-large por-
cupine lately, and desiring to take him to Sydney
next day, put him in a box. This was of strong
wood, and the lid of battens nailed about two
inches apart. To my surprise I found in the morn-
ing that the captive had escaped. The box was
perfectly intact, so he must have squeezed himself
between two battens. Now,., how in the name of
Father Peter did he do it? By the way, ma pore,
gives a great protection to her young. When she
and the child are out walking the mother places
baby underneath her and thus totally obscures it
from view. This gives the old lady’s body a conical
appearance while in motion. Try to turn her over
and you will find what abnormal strength she has.
# * * *
“Melos”: A remarkably interesting Aus-
tralian who is rapidly approaching extinction is the
tarsipes, or long-snouted pouched mouse, of West-
ralia, a mite of 3in. (mostly snout), wearing a 4in.
tail and a short-furred suit of grey, striped brown
or black, relieved with yellowish-white on the under
parts. The animal is arboreal, and subsists on insects
and nectar, obtaining the latter in the same manner
as the hawk-moth. Its bones are extremely light
and slender, the teeth reduced in number, the toes
and most of the claws rudimentary, and the tongue
resembles that of the ant-eater. The mouse makes
an interesting pet and in places where the fly pest
adds a bitterness to life is worth its weight in gold.
* * * *
“Dormant”: The most confirmed hatter I
ever met confided to me that he had faith in
Chinese herbalists, turf-tipsters, snakes swallowing
their young, a piece of red rag hung on a horse’s
neck to keep off botflies, a potato in the pocket
to prevent rheumatism, corks around the hat to
keep off flies and Freetrade. When he got to Free-
trade I left. I reckoned that he was off his rocker.
• * * •
“F.J.W.”: Wandering in the highlands of
the Upper Monaro (N.S.WY) I came across a heap
of skeletons of horses. An examination of the
ground and a knowledge of the locality revealed the
tragedy. They were run-wilds that had been caught
in a snow-storm, and as the snow piled up they had
crowded together and slowly perished. From the
appearance of the remains the poor brutes had eaten
the hair from one another’s manes and tails before
going under.
* * * •
“Phil Harum”: How’s this for a fleece?
At Kerin’s, near Obley (N.T3.W.), 381 b. of wool
was removed from a jumbuck. In places the staple
wa9 15in. long. The animal had been lost in the
mountains for five years.
“Eddyson”; This is a tradition of Round
Hill, Gippsland. Round Hill is a bald mount rising
abruptly out .of a treeless expanse on the Wyleys’
ancestral run. At a distance it suggests a
submerged man pushing his hairless occiput up out
of a turbid sea, and on closer inspection it is in-
teresting for the peculiar round boulders with which
its top and slopes are littered. There is an eerie
suggestion about Round Hill, due, in some measure,
to this resemblance to a colossal human skull, and
aggravated by its utter loneliness, a weirdness that
is doubly impressive as evening approaches, and its
quaint, peculiar shadows gather and deepen in its
hollows, giving a hint of black eye-sockets to the
half-buried head. Tommy Grott called himself Don-
ald Wyley’s overseer, but his duties were only those
of a shepherd, and he lived a true hatter’s existence
CLASSIFYING HIMSELF.
SERGEANT: “What are you, Church of E., R.C., Y.M.C.A., or what?”
DIGGER: “Er — A.I.F .”
in a one-roomed hut under the lofty brpw of the
hill. His humpy w r as built of scrap from the
distant saw-mill, and was so far withdrawn from
the haunts of men that weeks would pass without
Tommy having chance of human speech with any
living thing but his wethers, or his long-wool, bob-
tail dog. After two years of this retired life, Grott
had developed a strange regard for Round Hill,
holding it in profound reverence, and investing it
with supernatural attributes. He would sit on one
of the boulders at its foot, talking to the mount
as an Oriental devotee might address Buddha, and
at times he prayed to the hill on his knees before
it with uplifted hands and a heart full of unques-
tioning faith in its ability to protect and guard
and guide him. When Tommy had been in Wylev’s
service going on for five years he was a celebrity
for 20 miles around, and the general belief was
that he had pretty well the whole of five years’
earnings stowed away somewhere about his crib. This
report sent Bodio, the Dago killer and handy-man
from Bullrush, to call upon Tommy Grott late one
Sunday night. Bodio wanted Tommy’s mone"y, and
proposed cutting a throat if the owner made any
strong opposition to his claim. Bodio was highly
chagrined at his inability to discover Grott’s hidden
hoard. He threatened in vain ; Tommy’s only answer
was an absurd appeal to his household god, the great
overseeing hill, for protection. Bodio tore the
little old man from his knees, and threw him across
the bunk, at the same time displaying the delightful,
well-worn butcher’s sticker with which he slaughtered
Cumming’s sheep, a knife with a hideously suggest-
ive curve in it. “I cutta the throat,” he said
“One word you spike it, or I keel you. Ze mon,
where iss he. Kweek, or I cutta the dam ’ead off! ”
Tommy Grott would not speak, and, pouring forth
a flood of Etrurian blasphemy, Bodio nicked his
throat, cutting a two-inch wound as an evidence of
good faith. Tommy uttered a fearful cry, and at
that moment something came through the left wall of
the hut, shattering the timber as if it had been tissue-
paper. The hurtling mass struck the top clean off the
Italian’s head, and crashed out through the right-
hand wall. The mount had shot one of its extra-
ordinary round boulders down its slope to the
rescue of its faithful devotee, and they solemnly
swear at Round Hill to this day that the very stone
that killed Bodio in the act of murder was the
one under which, high up the rise, Tommy Grott
had hidden his money!
■*•*■#*
“The Camello”: Ever had “the dry hor-
rors”? On the first Amman raid, on the third night
of the march (we had about two hours’ “rest” out
of the 24), I was hanging on to the headrope of my
camel, and, as usual, started to doze. Suddenly
waking up, a beautiful city, with mosque minarets
and domes, was before my eyes. My cobber next to
me remarked the same thing. We believed we had
arrived at the end of our journey—and then it all
faded away 1 I questioned a lot of the boys about
it, and several had also “seen things.” I mentioned
it to our padre, and he had had like delusions, so
it couldn’t have been due to the rum we hadn't had.
“Trap”: We were sitting in the bar 01
Fagan’s pub eating our crib and imbibing a pin l
when two Di strolled in . There was nobod*
, .
behllld the CoUllter > s 0 the - v ban^ed 14 wlth theK
fists. No one coming to serve them they “put the
boot in” to the panels, still without result. Fagai
was evidently at lunch and not to be disturbed.
In about 10 minutes he appeared, leisurely wiping
his mouth with the back of his hand. “Say, boss,”
said Billjim, “have you a mirror you could lend me
for a minute?” “Yes, certainly,” said Pagan;
“what might yer want it for?” “Aw,” said Bill-
jim, “I just want ter see what a bloke looks like
when he’s dyin’ of thirst 1”
“Bad Australian” : Carl Lumboltz, in
“Among Cannibals,” referring to the Burnett River
(Q.) salmon, writes: —■
This fish is, however, no salmon, but its size and
its delicate-tasting flesh remind the people of the
salmon. It leaves the water in the night and goes
ashore, where it feeds on grass and leaves, while
in the daytime it may be seen sunning itself on
logs lying out of the water. This living fossil
attains a length of six feet.
This doesn’t match my experience on the
Burnett in 1899 and 1900, when the river was little
more than a chain of waterholes and the salmon
were killed in dozens by whites using sieves and
Binghi doing his bit with hand-nets and spear. I
never heard of one being caught on a line. The
flesh, which is very coarse and oily, resembles salmon
only in color, and has a rank flavor when eaten
fresh. When salted it loses much of its gamey
flavor, but even then it is anything but delicate
tasting. It seems to average about 3ft. in length
and 251 b. or 301li. in weight. Its color is a dark
rusty brown on the upper parts, merging into a
paler color on the sides. The belly is a dirty white
with a slight tinge of pink, and about two-thirds
of the body is covered with coarse scales about the
size of a shilling. There is also a hard, tough
scale about as big as a half-crown on the front of
the head. The eye is small and frog-like, the mouth
also is small, with soft, fleshy lips, and the fish has
a pair of soft, fleshy flippers, like a young seal’s. The
tail resembles that of an eel, having no scales, and
the skeleton is merely a cartilaginous framework,
the “bones” being almost as easy to cut as the flesh.
In the many specimens examined by me I never
found grass or leaves in the stomach, nor do I see
how the animal could get around on dry ground
after that kind of food. Although on account of its
peculiar structure —it has lungs as well as gills—the
ceretodus can live a long time out of water, its
alleged habit of going ashore to browse on vegeta-
tion suggests that Lumholtz’s informant was either
pulling that eminent naturalist’s leg or had con-
founded the lung-fish with the platypus, which does
a lot of basking on semi-submerged logs and an
occasional walk about on shore. In 1900 the platy-
pus was so numerous on the Upper Burnett that
on one close thundery afternoon I shot three full-
grown specimens inside two hours.
*■ # * •
“Cape Pork”: A cure for berri-berri is
obtained by chewing the small orange-shaped berry
of the wild quinine bush. The taste is like a
mixture of quinine, ink and treacle.


X
"
u
a
a
o.
o
v.
Q
0
C/Q
I
&
©
e/
iyo
«W*
ot'A
/s St
5b
sS>5
°&uS^£mßer*
*>r
'Y
c c
o
<r©
CIGARETTES
“An inspiration in Cig'arette Flavor,
Frag'rance and Bouquet.”
® NUMBER 1 ®
D
/D
<3
THE RED PACKET


Some Coughs take a lot of “shaking off”
—generally several bottles of the ordinary
cough mixtures; but the worst and most
obstinate cough will disappear like magic
if treated with
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
Under the influence of this super-remedy
the improvement is immediate.
W. G. HEARNE & Co. Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
B
KJ.
J
W\\
<^§
CHEST
AFFECTIONS
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street,
SYDNEY.
my home,” he said, commenting on this
strange condition, “everyone would laugh at
you. They know me as a huntsman, a
cricketer. But as a dramatist, ho/”
An Australian who has jumped into the
front rank of writers here is •'Hugh Wal-
pole.” In the judgment of critics he stands
upon the horizon one of the figures of
greatest promise in contemporary fiction.
He is a young man in his thirties, with a
record of achievement truly remarkable. An
Australian by birth, he spent some time in
New York and then plunged into English
letters. His most popular books are “The
Gods and Mr. Perrin,” “Fortitude,” “The
Dark Forest” and “The Secret City.”
Leonard Merrick’s '‘Conrad in Quest of
His Youth” is much talked about. His deft-
ness of plot and a humor that seems to
be as natural as breathing have won him a
legion of admirers.
There is no demand for war books. The
booksellers’ shelves are piled with them, and
they cannot even be given away. Books on
reconstruction are also not wanted. The
American taste at present is for poetry. The
bards, good and bad, are having a great run.
The two Americans. Joyce Ivilmur and Allan
Seeger, both of them killed at the Front, are
each in their .sixth edition. Of the living
war poets, Siegfried Sassoon is the most
popular. His hard-bitted Pegasus appeals to
the Americans, as also does his slashing in-
dictment of war. Nichols, Brooke, Sorley,
Mcßae and Graves are in many mouths.
Van Noppen, “the Homer of the American
Fleet,” has just published his book of verse
entitled “The Challenge.” It is already a
success.
TOM SKEYUILL.
Lock on the Misunderstanding
Sometimes the literary leg-puller intends
to be taken seriously, and sometimes it is
the reader who doesn’t see the joke. When
the Rev. Solomon Spaulding cooked a
rather dreary hash of Exodus, Joshua,
Judges, the Koran, etc., and made the comic
Old Testament of America, he didn’t dream
that Smith, of all men in the world, would
steal it and pass it off as a divine revelation
and build the Mormon Church on it.
Whether Ignatius’ Donnelly meant his Shake-
baconspere cryptogram to fool the public or
to create a laugh isn’t known. Whether
Frank Lock, who writes The Nationalisation
of Credit, the Only Cure for Industrial Un-
rest, wants to be regarded as a business-
like parody on the ant, the industrious*
animal that runs for its life and gets no-
where, or doesn’t mind how he is regarded,
it is hard to say. He is Frank to intimate
that there is no deception, and Lock to show
that he is the key to the mystery.
There are too many details for enumera-
tion, but the scheme includes the abolition
of gold as money and the substitution of
“unlimited credit,” which is a nice thing to
get but hard to give. There would aiso,
under his plan, be unlimited Commonwealth
notes, but as everybody who. held any would
have to pay interest or rent on them, nobody
would hold more than he could help, so the
currency wouldn't be inflated. Apparently
nobody would get any notes without giving
security. Anybody who had money in a
bank or such-like institution wouldn’t re-
ceive interest on it. but on the other hand
he wouldn’t be charged for storage. It
looks as if life would be a pretty busy
interest-paying job. There is nothing of
socialism or communism in the scheme. Mr.
Lock is an individualist pure and simple.
But under his paper Constitution local Gov-
ernment bodies are to have “a practically
unlimited supply of money,” and so
apparently are the State Governments, just
as they have in Russia, but, as is not the
case in Russia, the money is not to deterio-
rate. (It is mentioned, of course, that the
entire cost of the war should have been paid
in undeteriorated notes.) Among other
things “the whole of the Customs duties
and other forms of taxation might be either
abolished or returned in full.” Apparently
the State and municipal Governments are
to subsist entirely on paper money bor-
rowed from the Commonwealth. At the
same time foreign borrowing is to be
abolished, the public debt paid off, and, when
advisable, credit is to be shipped to Lon-
don—bulk credit or bagged credit or some
kind of credit.
It is all a dizzy parody on the promises
of Ryan, Storey, Tudor and co., and cal-
culated to turn them green with fury when
they think of the colorless programmes they
have committed themselves to. Mr. Lock
professes himself cheerfully willing to do
10 times more than ■ Ryan lias done or
promises to do, and to achieve it without
loans, and to pay off Ryan’s debts at the same
time, and also to abolish taxes. And he
supports the propositions with a tangled,
pathless wilderness of apparent logic. Th ?
seeker for finality wanders through the maze
crying vainly for the water of real infor-
mation and falling over dead trees that look
like facts but are only ghosts. And in the
end he is liable to go mad and, with liis
tongue hanging out, fill up his ballot-paper
anyhow.
Some of the instances quoted are pic-
turesque. One concerns a gardener and his
wife, with 13 surviving young children to
support, who ought to be receiving
£690 Os. 7d. —on the writer’s own figures
they should be receiving £796 3s. 9d. —per
annum, but aren’t. A gardener with 13
young surviving children (possibly all born
on a Friday) is either a misfortune or a
rabbit. But evidently lie is meant as a
symbol for Adam, a sweated agriculturist
of ill-fortune and large progeny, some of
them dating back before there was any such
thing as Friday.— (Geo. B. Philip and Son,
Sydney.)
The Art of Streeton
The publishers of Art in Australia have
chosen wisely in following their special
Hilder number with one devoted to Streeton.
For to no other painter does Australia owe
so much. There may not be, perhaps cannot
be, such a thing as Australian art; yet as
Lionel Lindsay says in the very excellent
article which goes with this volume of color
and black-and-white reproductions, nation-
alism can be and often is “an integral part
of great art.” Streeton saw his country as
it was. Julian Ashton, who contributes a
brief introduction, recalls how, when his
young friend joined Roberts in the latter’s
camp at Little Sirius, the newcomer “never
felt that theories about art really mattered.
His nature was that of a fresh, breezy, care-
free youth who revelled in the beauty of his
country, and whose highest ambition was to
paint it,as faithfully as he could.” He belonged
to no school. He followed no traditions. The
only witchery he felt was the witchery of
Australian colon And that is mostly Aus-
tralian light. Yet he knew what to leave
out; and what he didn’t know to begin
with he learned. There is an interesting
plate in this volume, an example of
Streeton’s early work, painted in 1886, with
two figures almost filling the foreground.
Streeton would have sub-edited them later.
He is Australia’s landscape painter; and,
after all, landscape is mostly distance. No
man we have had has handled distances so
effectively. . No man has taken greater
pains _ that his foreground should not
mar his real performance. That most de-
lightful of all his big things, “The Purple
Moon’s Transparent Light,” in the Mel-
bourne Gallery, is a case in point. P. G.
Konody follows Streeton on the other side,
where, to a great extent, he ceased to be
our Streeton. But he had by that time done
his work for Australia. He had painted it
“as faithfully as he could,” and the result
was beauty. So he helped to establish an Aus-
tralian tradition. Hilder, Gruner, a score
others might have been different if Streeton
had bent his Australia to an alien will.
(Angus and Robertson, Sydney, publishers.)
Song
Iu modern English verse the hardest dis-
ciplinarians are the gods that be in Australia,
which is to say, in effect, Sydney ; and in mod-
ern current verse in our language the best
appears in Australia. In New York and
Boston the metrical output is either 50 years
late in thought and expression, or 500 years
early. In both cases, speaking generally, it
is literarily and literally negligible. There is
no discipline there. Presumably an editor's
sole excuse, for his occupation of the chair is
his knowledge of what the public wants,
which is about a quarter of the mental
outfit of an advertising canvasser. In
London things are better, but not much
—not nearly so better as they should be.
Occasionally in the English Review good
verse appears; but only occasionally, and
the Review is a monthly. Sometimes in the
Academy good verse used to appear, under
the editorship of Lord Alfred Douglas. The
same applies to the Saturday Westminster
and to no other newspaper or periodical
published in England. I omit the University
magazines for the reason that they are not,
truly speaking, publications for the general
reader. In spite of the unfairness of their
control and the youth of their contributors,
in metrical accuracy they are the firmest of
the lot, as in attenuation of thought and con-
ventionality of expression they are the
weakest.
The verse printed in London (I write,
naturally, with the reservation of one or two
notable names) depends apparently for its
chance of the editor’s “yes” solely upon the
pungency or charm of the matter, and not at
all upoiL.the correctness of the manner. Much
of the thought and theme can be criticised
favorably, but the aggregate metrical result
on paper is a few scattered “good” lines, and
an irritation that the “reading” has been
delegated to the Sports edit :r.
No doubt to the man reading only for
beauty or piquancy of thought the needless
dropping of a beat or the addition of a foot
and a half are not matters of great import-
ance. Minor things like the accidental sub-
stitution of a fortissimo note in the fourth
stanza for slurred notes in the second and
third and for a dropped beat in the first are
too general in London to be more than im-
pertinent, passing reflections on the editor’s
knowledge. Yet text-books for the unmfisical
ear are many ; a week’s application will ab-
sorb most of the rules of prosody. If the
idea is to foster young and promising talent
by standing aside and just publishing, that
is dangerous and entirely abortive ; as the tag
to the commentaries and to some of the text-
books, to keep freedom always in mind
is pernicious and damnable. A promising
cricketer is not fostered or coached until he
knows and practises the rules of cricket; and
it is a certainty that he can’t play good
cricket until he does.
Masefield was a verse-discovery of the
English Review; his “Widow in the By-
street’’ appeared there, as also, I think, his
“Everlasting Mercy.” He was hailed as a
great man —the authentic modern voice at.
last, and all that. As an artist in prose
Masefield has moved me to deep admiration
more than once ; in verse he is a good journ-
alist, and that, I think, is all. He uses a
heavy, ungainly narrative line which has
nothing like the balance and life of Henry
Lawson’s long line. In his shorter pieces his
work is not free from inanities, gross liberties
in scansion and empty magniloquence.
Neither of the hysterical Little Bethel pieces
mentioned above, for all their occasional
flashes of beauty, is comparable with Dennis’s
“Sentimental Bloke” as a monolithic artistic
work, and I don’t think Dennis would say
that the Bloke- was the authentic modern
voice.
I have Mrs. Meynell’s latest collection of
verse; perhaps two out of the score of pieces
would pass The Bulletin reader; perhaps
not. I have written of and quoted Yeats’s
“Wild Swans at Coole” in this page.
“Georgian Poetry,” a collection made about
every two years of the work of the younger
English poets, is interesting as showing the
direction of things; but the matter is un-
even and, in manner, correct scansion just
happens ever and anon. None of the work
reaches the height of Zora Cross’s two books;
nor has any verse of book-length done so in
England, in my opinion, since the publica-
tion of “The Hound of Heaven,” into whose
form-errors Miss Cross does not fall.
The verse of James Stephens, J. C. Squire,
Harold Monro, Ralph Hodgson. Drinkwater,
De La Mare and Abercrombie is full of
abrupt transitions,, of thought, of half-ex-
pressed thought, and of apparently deliberate
disregard of scansion laws. It all suggests
the work of a small school or literary club
writing for the weekly meeting of its mem-
bers. In general the thought, half-expressed
or worn thin by expression, is good ; some-
times it is fine. There is clearly no lack
of poetry material; but just as clearly there
is dire lack of authoritative control—of (to
use the word for the last time) discipline.
Of what is known as “magazine verse,”
fugitive fill-ups and tail-pieces in excellent
but not “literary” periodicals, the northern
examples are ghastly. Journals of the status
of Scribner’s. Spectator, Saturday Even-
ing Post and Corn hill publish verse thin
and anaemic to the last pallid degree; stuff
without any recommendation of matter or
form, and not worth even cursory criticism.
It is incredible that editors whose judgment
is so sure and often so brilliant in prose-
fiction and current matter can be so lament-
ably at fault in verse.
Australia is a small nation in numbers.
We are admittedly not ’Varsity chaps or
literati —on the contrary, thank Cod ! Yet
a dozen good-sized books of verse appeared
here last season, of which three or four made
popular hits. Why? Isn’t there some
analogy between the form martinets here and
the popularity of verse here? The buying
population for the continent is little more
than half that of London ; but the publishers
keep on doing it. I am afraid the explana-
tion is that our verse is good and that Eng-
land’s is bad.
And the plain truth of it is that the
readers in the North don’t want good verse
(which lets the American editors in again),
and wouldn’t know it if they got ft. Per-
haps. On the other hand, if they got even
a little of it regularly they might find after
all that they liked it, as Australians do.
FRANCIS BRIEN.
George Eliot's Centenary
George Eliot, whose centenary fell on the
twenty-second of this month, was born into
the tedious ineptitude of the middle classes
in a semi-somnolent world in which execu-
tions were performed publicly and the bodies
of criminals left hanging on the gallows:
a -world of pigtails and knee-bi’eeches and
stuffy morality and industrial tyranny,
where Democracy was a foetus. But the
precedent age of blue stockings—
Lucan, Leveson, Greville, Crewe,
Fertile-minded Montagu—•
had thrown aside the time-worn prejudice
that study was “unbecoming in woman.” So
George Eliot, following a studious inclina-
tion, matured in an intellectual hot-house
with such as Herbert Spencer, John Stuart
Mill and George Henry Lewes; and the first
fruits of her maturity were translations of
Strauss’s “Life of Jesus” and Feuerbach's
“Essence of Christianity,” together with
abstract essays contributed to the West-
minster Review.
For 24 years George Eliot lived in free-
union with George Henry Lewes. Terrible
though it may seem, they ignored the social
code, and, under the enthusiastic influence
of the man, the woman blossomed into a
novelist of the first order. It was the more a
tribute to the man. because George Eliot
was not a born novelist. She never felt that
joy in story-telling so patent in Robert
Louis Stevenson. She was a born essayist.
She wrote novels with a tedious minuteness,
stopping at intervals to compose an essay.
“Adam Bede.” “The Mill on the Floss” and
“Silas Marner” are works of a realist who
insisted that all artistic creations should
wield an ethical influence. But there are
few men now, after the scorching realism of
Zola, who would agree with Ruskin that her
characters were “sweepings from a Penton-
ville omnibus.” Her later works are marred
by a philosophical heaviness, lack of plot
and dramatic situation; yet touched with
fine analyses of spiritual emotions and por-
traying countryside manners and customs
with vital sympathy, compassion and gener-
osity. Like other classical novelists she
made herself tiresome to many and unknown
to more : but she will retain a place in the
admiration of those who want literature.
REG S. ELLERY.
A Satchel of Books
Prefaces, by Don Marquis (Appleton.
New York). A succession of more or less
humorous and satirical sketches. They
cover a multitude of subjects, from rolling
a cigarette with one hand to a character
sketch of a hangman. Amongst the few
serious items is an indictment of hell-fire
Billy Sunday. The value of statistics was
demonstrated by the bloke whose supply of
free tobacco was suddenly stopped :
Hennery Dash, your soul is so small that if there
was millions and millions of souls the size of yourn
into a flea’s belly them souls would be so far apart
they' couldn’t hear each other if they was to holler.
Dope, by Sax Rohmer (Cassells, London).
A lurid melodrama of the London drug traffic.
Chief Inspector Kerry, a red-headed thunder-
bolt, is given the job of unearthing the Drug
Syndicate, whose object is to corner the dope-
supplies. The villains-in-chief are Sin Sin
Wa, the imperturbable, and his Cuban-Jew
wife. Mrs. Sin, who wears a stiletto in her
stocking and very little else, takes most of the
spotlight until her husband strangles her
with his pigtail.
Haunted Places ifi England, by Elliot
O’Donnell (Sands and Co., London). Thir-
teen uncanny stories, nearly all of murder
or suicide. The preface furtively accuses the
incidents of having a foundation of fact—a
device that was known when the Chaldean
journalists first wrote up the Deluge. The
yarns creak with mechanical effects, and
some of them are very carelessly written.
Fixed at last. The press congress of the
world will meet at Sydney in October, 1920.
“FY7”: S. M. Herald, which usually
bothers itself little about native fauna, has
given space to a couple of letters protesting
against the cruelty meted out in the Back-
blocks to the river tortoise. After all, blood
is thicker than water.


The Ground
m
iiii(i m
■:
t
ik
m I
\
A
HU
m
■
m
m
!!;
'*> V
■
■ ■
■ i
.
R
m !
H
■
■
: ,
I
I
/
;
i I
■
m
m
MADE IN
CANADA
The “Dominion” is just the tyre
for our roads. No better non-skid
is built.
It puts confidence into your driving
makes you sure of safety.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL LEADING GARAGES and
QUEENSLAND-
Metropolitan GARAGE d MOTOR AGENCY,
George Street, Brisbane.
VICTORIA <& TASMANIA—
DOMINION TYRE AGENCY,
27-31 Little Bourke Street,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—
CHENEY MOTOR CO. LTD.,
42-8 Way mouth Street, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
WESTRALIAN FARMERS LIMITED,
Wellington Street, Perth.
FACTORY REPRESENTATIVES: 53 York Street, SYDNEY.


He
Catches
the Eye,
and he will catch
buyers’ eyes at Home-
bush.
Winchcombe,
Carson
will see to that. They
are expert salesmen,
alert and energetic.
CONSIGN STOCK:
WINCHCOMBE,CARSON
Flemington Siding 1 . LTD.
BRITISH
AND BEST
YELLOW
METAL
PEN
GOLDEN
WATTLE
MADE BY
- MACNIVEN & -
CAMERON LTP
BIRMINGHAM & EDINBURGH
" THEY COME AS A BOON Sc A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL & THE WAVERLEY PEN."
bsEe
THE. WORLD'S
Wm BEST VALUE
&
USE
ma
The Evergreen Bairnsfather
in
FRAGMENTS
A Weekly Illustrated Paper Edited
by
Captain Bruce Bairnsfather
Now ready.
3d. per copy—l7/6 yearly (including
postage).
SPECIAL FEATURES:
“Old Bill’s Letter,” “Periscope Pars,”
“Barks from the Barracks,” French
“Fags,” “Sport Spasms,” “Sky
Scrapings.”
ADd numerous full page and smaller illus-
trations in Bairnsfather’s inimitable style,
s'tyle.
A LAUGH FROM COVER TO
COVER.
Also
“THE LONDON GRAPHIC” —England’s
leading illustrated weekly—all the latest events of
th 6 Great Metropolis picturised.
Single copies, 1/-. Yearly, 63/-
Including postage.
“LONDON BYSTANDER.”
Overflowing with bright paragraphs, illustrations and
cartoons On all the topical events of the day.
Single copies, 1/-. Yearly, 63/-
Including postage.
“DAILY GRAPHIC”— empire edition.
Five papers in one. Each week's issue of the
“DAILY GRAPHIC” bound under one cover con-
taining 100 pages and 150 pictures, of all the
events of the moment.
Single copies, 9d. Yearly, 50/-
Including postage.
Lodge your orders early at any Booksellers or
Stationers.
Gordon & Gotch (Australasia) Ltd.
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
BH AS,
BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust —Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES —Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS:
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited,
“Collins House,” 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sydney Agent: Adelaide Agent:
R. N. KIRK, 25 O’Connell Street. C. S. STOKES, 62 Brookman Buildings.
THE PALACE HOTEL.
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OF PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
JOHN T. GLOtVREY, Proprietor.
Made in
Australia
I
A New
and Cheaper
System of
BUILDING
;
m
mt
Standardised System of Building
Triangular units lit together to form a variety of buildings,
tr. angular unit standardised: no riveting is necessary,
handled, easily erected, easily transported, and fireproof,
entirely in Australia by Gardner, Waern & Co.
Fullest particulars and prices on request from
BRISBANE
MELBOURNE: 384 City Road.
SYDNEY. 225 Clarence Street.
BRISBANPJ. 367 Queen Street.
Showrooms: 369 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Each
Easily
Made
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
v 2*
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
ALLAYS THE IRRITATION OF INSECT BITES.
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Etc.
SCRUBB & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
The O.C.S. Automatic Weighing Machine
FOR FREE RUNNING MATERIALS. NO POWER REQUIRED.
Manufacturers and Im-
porters of —
Boiler Flour Mill
Machinery
Oatmeal Mill Machinery
Brewers’ and Malsters’
Machinery
Superphosphate
Machinery
Elevators of various
designs
Apron Conveyors,
Gravity Conveyors
Adjustable Feeders
and Mixers
Flour and Bran Packers
Grinding Mills for all
Classes of Materials
Bottle-filling Machines
for Piccalilli, etc.
S/xc F 4.
Farmer s’ Grain
Cleaners
Link Belting
Sprocket Wheels
Elevator Buckets
Complete Grinding and
Dressing Plants for
Sugar, Spices, Starch,
Paint, etc.
Package Elevators
Bag Holders
Disc Grinding Mills
Malt Boiler Mills
MADE IN AUSTRALIA. SUPPORT OUR OWN INDUSTRIES.
Schumacher Mill Furnishing Works Pty. Ltd.,
PORT MELBOURNE, VICTORIA. E
"Barney” : Best trade sign I ever saw in
Egypt adorned an Arab baker’s shop in
Ramleh. It read :
AHMUD YUSIF,
Loafer.
It might have been pasted all over Gyppo-
land without overdoing it.
“Zanthus”: “Beachcombing” is a regular
industry at St. Ivilda (Vic.) during the sum-
mer. The men in the profession get to work
about dawn and rake up the purses, bangles,
rings and other odds and ends that have
been left there by forgetful or belated visi-
tors the night before. After a really hot
time there is good money in it.
“Exile” : A French inventor, N. L. Ilupin,
has apparently succeeded in overcoming the
break of railway gauge by using an extensible
axle. The wheel rests on two semi-axles
tied by connecting-rods which are jointed.
On the narrowest gauge the two semi-axles
and the connecting rods fit tightly together.
When a car passes from a narrow-gauge
track to a wider one the axle slightly ex-
tends, and so do the jointed connecting rods.
The car runs over a track of uniformly-
diminishing gauge joining the two main sec-
tions of track. The axle is really telescopic;
and it is said to permit the freest rotation
at any speed. The axles and the wheel
suspension are so arranged that the dis-
tance between the wheels automatically
adjusts itself in passing from one gauge to
another.
“F.N.L.”: The “vegetable silk” stockings
that produce inflammation of Doreen’s legs
(B. 6/11/T9) are probably loaded with
arsenic, which is used as a mordant in dye-
ing. If it is not properly washed out of
stockings, gloves and other articles brought
into contact with the skin, it will cause
severe irritation. Of course any abrasion or
open wound makes the affection worse.
Again, the irritation may be due to some
metallic or even vegetable irritant used in
producing the glaze or sheen on the material.
That the front of the legs seems to be more
affected can be ascribed to the mechanical
irritation of dust, heat, etc., producing a
more suitable condition for absorption of the
poison. Eczema and similar conditions,
pigmentation and desquamation of the skin
are other interesting possibilities.
“Iota” : The officials of the Amalgamated
Society of Engineers are concerned about
the Repat. Department’s vocational train-
ing scheme. Selected soldiers are to be
given six months’ training in vocational
schools; then they are to be put to
a test which will classify them as first-
second- or third-year improvers, and as such
they will be drafted into engineering works
to learn the trade. Which is all very fine;
but where are the shops in Australia that
have room for the men? The only thing will
be to put off unbound apprentices and im-
provers, for there is to be no dilution of
labor. The A.S.E. leaders are wondering
what to do over the matter and cannot see
a way out. Well, why not build a tariff
wall, and then utilise the society’s vast funds
to establish a big engineering works inside it?
“Furlo”: I remember Brig.-Gen. “Pom-
pey” Elliott, now one of the Senate
candidates in Vic., walking among his ragged
veterans from Gallipoli, looking more like
a butcher’s offsider than a Brig. Four o
five immaculately dressed reinforcement offi-
cers arrived at this camp at Tel-el-Kebir.
Pompey saw them coming, and sent a staff-
captain to ascertain what they wanted. The
s.-c. reported that they had been sent from
Corps H.Q. to report for duty. “I don’t
want them,” said Pompey. “But, sir,”
timidly put in the s.-c., “they are sent from
Corps H.Q.” . “Send them back! Send
them to Cairo ! Send them to Hell!” yelled
the not-too-amiable Pompey. Then, point-
ing towards the Diggers, busily engaged in
chat-hunting, he added, "I’ll make my offi-
cers from those fellows.” And so he did.
He invariably picked his officers from his
n.c.o.’s. Which explains the high state of
efficiency attained by his brigade.
“Jake B.”: The official report on the New
York-Washington aerial; mail service, which
completed its first year of operation ip May,
has been issued. It claims that mails were
profitably carried at the rate of 2-kl. per oz.,
and that; the revenue for the year exceeded
the total operating cost by $17,000. The
journey is flown in two stages, with Phila-
delphia as an intermediate station, and out
of 804 stages only 12 were not completed.
There is no reason why Sydney-Melbournc
should not be run with equal success. Re-
liable machines of the type used on the Lon-
don-Cologne service are being given away by
the British Government to any of the
Dominions that care to accept them. The
pilots are already here. The initial outlay
would only have to cover the cost of terminal
aerodromes, with an intermediate one some-
where this side of Albury. Incidentally, the
machines could easily be converted into
bombers in the event of war. Energy might
be spent much more usefully in this line than
on the highly impracticable England-Aus-
tralia route.
While a division, expected .to be close, was
being taken in the Vic. Assembly on a motion
by the late Ned Murphy to decide whether or
not a “little bit of railway” should be built
to Dungaree racecourse, Bill Beazley, after-
wards Speaker, was egged on by a group of
suburban members to pull 'Ned’s leg. Beaz-
ley had to think of something quickly, and
he went over to Ned and asked him if he
would vote for the Collingwood line, in pref-
erence to the Fitzroy line, provided that he
and two others (named) declared for the
motion. Ned temporised for a few moments
“Thurty-sivin, forrity,” he repeated, as he
watched the members filing over to the
Speaker’s right. “It’s ginerous av ye; and
is it a good line, Misther Beazley, yours?”
he asked. Without waiting for an answer
Ned resumed counting. “Forrity-foor, six,
eight, nine,” he continued. Then, finding
that he had one over an absolute majority of
the 95 (a full House at that period), Murphy
turned round. “Damn yer ould line,” said
he; “mine’s safe, anyway.” Beazley left it
to somebody else to take a rise out of Dun -
garee's idol after that.


For complaints arising from a disordered
Stomach, Liver and Kidneys, Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills are without equal.
They are not advertised as a great “Cure-
All,” but as a safe, sure and reliable
remedy for the Little Ills of Life, for which they are
unexcelled. People who eat and drink too much, or get
their system upset from any other cause, need a medicine of
this kind to keep the digestive track in proper working order.
Many serious illnesses are avoided by keeping such a simple
remedy at hand, and once or twice a week taking a dose
sufficient to cleanse and tone the system. This is the
secret of good health in man, woman and child, and any-
one failing to recognise this simple fact runs a serious risk
of contracting any of the dreaded complaints so common.
The old saying, “An ounce of prevention is worth a
pound of cure,” was never more aptly to the point.
are based on a good sound formula, and are in use by
thousands of people. They get at the cause in an unmis-
takable manner, regulating, toning and strengthening the
whole system, As a searching, cleansing remedy these Pills are unexcelled,
and once tried they are found so efficient in overcoming Stomach Troubles,
Constipation, Sick Headache, Indigestion and Liver Complaints, that they
are constantly used, and always with the most gratifying results. Neigh-
bors, friends and relatives all testify to the marvellous cleansing and
purifying properties of these pills, and their ever increasing sale bears
testimony to their splendid efficacy, and popularity as a home remedy.


fV-3-
Keep Your Feet Cool
IN A FORD!
You can add a world of pleasure to your motor-
ing by using the OspecO-built windshield on your
Ford. Creates a full circulation of cool air in the
front seat and on the feet while driving, offsetting
the excessive heat that is created by the Ford
engine. The cost is remarkably low, only 60/-
60
ANYONE can put on the OspecO parts, and
make his Ford windshield ventilating in
only a few minutes. It’s not necessary to
discard your present windshield. Simply equip it
with the OspecO parts and make it full ventilating
and slanting. It affords clear vision, which is a
wonderful help and makes for safety while
driving, besides adding class to your car. Makes
a better appearing, more practical and substantial
windshield than you can get elsewhere at any
price.
The OspecO-built windshield has no cumber-
some parts. Will not rattle or get out of order.
It has an enormous demand everywhere, and the
price is within reach of all.
Go to your accessory dealer to-day or send
direct to us. It will be the best sixty shillings you
ever spent. You wen’t know what real pleasure
and comfort you can derive from driving your
Ford until you use the OspecO windshield.
FOR SALE BY
JOHN STEWART,
156 Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY,
and by all other first-clas
Accessory Dealers
EVERYWHERE.
If your dealer cannot
supply, send direct to
MARCY & CASEY
Australasian Distributors,
76 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
m
,
' •
CAILLE ENGINES FOR EVERY
TYPE OF MOTOR BOAT.
They offer the lnotor-
CAILL.E PERFECTION MARINE ENGINES are time-tried and storm-tested.
boatist continuous, non-stop sport on ocean, harbor or river. “Stalling’ of the engine,
ordinary motor-boat engines, is unknown to the Caille. The Caille Perfection Watei-pioof Igni
System is a positive guarantee against a breakdown that spoils the day.
No danger of stoppage in a storm or downpour—the Caille Perfection Ignition is
absolutely water-proof—no batteries, m coil to adjust, no complicated wiring, no
variation in current—a positive start every time.
Caille Engines are exclusive in design, and work-
manship is guaranteed by
the name which is known by
motor-boatists throughout
the world. All sizes in 1- to
4-Cylinder Designs, Standard
and Heavy Duty types, from
2to 30 h.p. Write for Booklet.
s
4^,
. ■... j
r- r '
Caille Rowboat Motors
Those who own or hire a row-
boat can get four times the
sport with a Caille Rowboat
Motor. Simply clamp the
sturdy Caille Outfit on the back-
hoard, pull the starter, and off
you go anywhere at a speed up
to 9 miles per hour. The Caille
Rowboat Motor has push-button
control, five speeds, water-
proof Flywheel, Magneto ready
always with a positive spark—
2h.p. and weighs only 751 b.
Write for booklet and price to
Benson
Brothers Ltd.
76-78 Liverpool Street, SYDNEY; 71-75 Queen’s Bridge Street, MELBOURNE;
138 Currie Street, ADELAIDE.
This year’s profits of J. and 1’• Coats, the
cotton-makers, are £3,899,388. The ordinary
shares receive a dividend of 40 per cent.
Ordinary shareholders also receive a 100
per cent, share bonus. Poor wretches
hanging to a pitiful existence by a mere
thread!
“The Pariah”: Melbourne papers please
copy. A party of house-hunters at North-
bridge, a remote northern suburb of Sydney,
were moved to envy by the sight of three
carts being loaded with tomatoes. Inquiry
produced from the Celestial in charge the
information that the fruit was for some
“countly town” —he thought its name was
Melbourne.
“R.S.V.P-T : Australian whisky is still
“common” in the eyes of some people who
should know better, like so many other
cheaper-than-imported but quite-good Aus-
tralian products. In certain
Melbourne pubs, if one calls for Australian
whisky one is told that it may be obtained
in the bar where Bill gets his beer. Tim
Australian label, apparently, isn’t “class
enough to appear beside those adorning the
aristocratic produce of the remote Scottish
stills.
“The Camello”: Our canteen near the
Canal was run by a Tommy, and we paid
for it too. Still, we got a bit back
sometimes. One night a big consignment of
Bass’s and Guinness’s came in, and was
stored under the counter, against which the
boys squatted. Someone discovered a loose
board, a chain was formed to the door of the
hut, and that was the finish of that beer.
But what hurt the sergeant most was having
to pay out the customary piastre a bottle
when one of the Diggers walked in the next
day with a sack full of empties on his back.
A Russian named Alexander Jorgeane, or
Harast, put up. Australia’s most remarkable
performance as a military deserter. Early
in 1917, being called to the colors, he got
exemption by joining the A.1.F.; but he
escaped from Liverpool Camp, and not a
trace of him was found till he was sighted in
the wildest part of Eastern Vic. He was
traced at Orbost and Nowa Nowa, and then,
when the Vic. police thought they had then-
hands on him. he vanished, and no hint of
him was got until early this year the N. b.
Wales police tried to have a few words with
him at Adaminaby, in the Kosciusko country.
He got away after firing a rifle. From Ingee-
goodbye he crossed over the mountains to Mt.
Leinster and the Gibbo River, reaching within
20 miles of Orneo and Benambra. ihe
police hunted him over the main Dividing
Range and finally arrested him at ( uiiyoiig
after lie had passed the depths of winter in
the Australian Alps, half-fed and ill-clothed.
“Billy T.”: We are all grateful to Briand.
He came to live in our vicinity 10 days ago,
but he had been here only two days when he
shone out as a public benefactor. He is a
bespectacled man, with plenteous grey hair
and a dome-like brow. He looks like a pro-
fessor of something abstruse, but proves to
be merely a manufacturer of patent potions.
We have the usual ambitious damsel with
the horrid voice, who sings and sings re-
gardless of the anguish of her fellow
creatures, being determined to be the next
Melba but one. She was at it the other-
night when Briand was seen to jump out
and dash for the door of Melba 111. s home.
He knocked, and the door was opened by the
mother of the songstress. He pressed some-
thing into her hand. “Give her this.” he
said breathlessly. “Give it at once. That
will stop it.” “Sir!” snorted the indignant
mother, “my daughter is not ill—she is sing-
ing.” Briand was pulled up short. But only
for a moment. “Oh. is she?” he said. “Never-
mind, give her the sedative, anyhow.” For
a week there has been no singing. w c
think the world of Briand’s sedative.
“W.H.E.” among the ghosts:—
Of the many tracks that twist and turn out of
Sydney, none have been so much used by political
and other public identities as the Old South Head-
road. W. C. Wentworth and John Robertson in the
early days saw visions and dreamed dreams at
Vaucluse and Watson’s Bay, and a certain old
dappled grey mare never failed to reaeli her des-
tination, no matter what hour the Assembly curtain
dropped or liow' much liquid refreshment “old Jock’'
had on board. W. B. Dailey, Daniel Cooper, Judge
Cheeke, Jack Want, James White, John Fairfax
(founder of the S. M. Herald), W. Dangar, Richard
Hill and hosts of other men who have left their
mark on N. S. Wales history pioneered this road
that as late as the ’sixties boasted an aboriginal camp
within li mile of the G.P.O. That smellful area
was then known as West's Bush, but thereabouts is
now Brougham-avenue. And there were more odious
characters to be met with on the lonesome journey
to South Head than local abos.—many
a thrilling yarn is remembered by the few remain-
ing old stagers of the exploits of “Hookey Walker’s
ghost” and his victims. T. S. Mort, John Macintosh,
the Knoxes, the Smarts and other gilded notables
left the Old South Head-road on their journey and
branched off to the wilds of Darling Point. John
Fairfax, with an eye to unearned increment and the
unsurpassed views of Sydney Harbor from the sum-
mit of Bellevue Hill settled down on the top of
the look-out, almost surrounded by a numerous abo.
camp. Jack Want built his early bungalow at
Seven Shilling Beach, near Double Bay, so close to
high-water mark that the rising tide almost washed
his back doorstep. Later on he again evidenced his
passion for sea-water by building a beautiful home
on the foreshores of Darling Point. Time has
obliterated the tracks of most of the men who trod
the old road ; and even the fact that Governor Mac-
quarie so often made for South Head by this ser-
pentine route does not stir the Historical Society to
erect memorials for modern trams and motor-cars co
strew with dust as they.pick their way through the
pack of houses that stretch out to Watson’s Bay.
IN THE SMOKING-BOOM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
One gift I cannot give you, love,
E’en though I had the heavens above.
Gems you can have, my ruby-stone,
These and my heart—for you alone.
But, as I watch you flitting here and there,
Touching a rose, moving a wav ward chair,
Dusting a bracket-ledge with careful wipe -
I cannot offer you nry glowing pipe.
N.S. W.
J. B.


£l5O
Cask
£l5O
Cash
represent the commencing letters of
Three
n.§lc
A First GAS FI Prize of £l5 and a Second Cash Prize of
£lO will be paid to the individuals in each State of the
Commonwealth who are the first and second from their
State to say correctly
What the Three Magic Words Are-
SIX First Prizes of £l5 CAS FI (one for each State)
SIX Second CASH Prizes of £lO (one for each State)
NO ENTRY FORM NEEDED—JUST SEND YOUR IDEA OF THE THREE MAGIC
WORDS AND YOUR FULL NAME AND ADDRESS WITH ENTRY FEE 1/- FOR
WHICH WE WILL POST YOU FULL VALUE.
The Sun-Raysed Waltz (5 pages of music) and Kettle Holder
-or Sun-Raysed Book-or Sun-Raysed War Medal Souvenir.
For 2|- we will post you Sun-Raysed Children’s Book (68
pages) and you will have TWO entries —a Fine Christmas
Gift for the youngsters.
A Hint It is in connection with the 1920 Campaign to popularise SUN-RAYSED FRUITS.
You can send as many solutions as you like, each to be accompanied by
P for which we will post you full value in SUN-RAYSED side-lines.
If you always eat SUN-RAYSED FRUITS and THE GOOD LITTLE NORMEY “LOLLY”
they will give you the necessary inspiration.
Contest Closes 31st March, 1920.
Entries should come in at once, as THE FIRST CORRECT ONES WIN
the £l5O CASH.
Results will be advertised on Saturday, 10th April, the same day as the
THREE MAGIC WORDS will be revealed.
Address Entries to —
C. J. DeGARIS, Director of Publicity, A.D.F.A., MILDURA, Victoria.


HOLEPROOF HOSE
have been bought by
millions of people for
many years. That fact
alone is proof enough
of extraordinary
value.
Have you ever though*
what YOU mag be mis-
sing by going without this
brand ?
Here is practically . . .
ABSOLUTE FREEDOM
from darning and you
have the choice of pure
silk and fine lisle.
If your
dealer is
unable to
supply you ,
write us.
Indents and
Wholesale thru
WAL T E R
CAT H R O
PTY. LTD.
50 Yopk St.
SYDNEY.
GARTERS
No metal
can touch yon.
The modern and most
comfortable Garter.
The kneeling figure and
oval trademark is always
on Paris Garters— YOUR
guarantee of satisfaction.
Obtainable all Mercers.
Stein & Co., Makers, Chicago, New Yoik.
Indents and W h >!esale :
Walter Cathro Pty. Ltd., 50 York St., Sydney.
Baby is a
Connoisseur
in his little way. He likes,
and must have, the best.
Mellin’s Food is the proved
most efficacious equivalent to
Mother’s Milk.
Satisfactory feeding is half the
battle. Then, what a boon to the
mother to use a food which rt quires
no tiresome cooking or preparation.
Meliins
it made in a flash—needs no cooktnfl
Send for sample of Mellin’s Food and Hand*
look for Mothers ‘The Care of Infants’—Free
Messrs. Goixxn & Co. Proprietary
Ltd,, Sydney
H. G. HARMED, L.R.1.8.A., C.E.,
ESTABLISHED 1907,
having taken into partnership .
A. C. LAVINGTON,
will henceforth practise as
HARMER & LAVINGTON,
ARCHITECTS
and
CONSULTING CIVIL ENGINEERS.
SPECIALISTS IN RE INFORCED CONCRETE,
TIMBER AND STEEL STRUCTURES
SILOS, WOOLSHEDS, TANKS, FACT,PRIES
AND HOMESTEADS.
Country work a Specialty, .
’PhoneCity'so. Box 468 G.P.O.
52 WAR LOAN CHAMBERS,
114 a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
AFTER A HARD DAY’S
WORK
You want something to tone you up, help
you enjoy and digest your dinner and have
a good night’s rest. Try a tew drops of
Dhosforino
I THE ROYAL TONIC
This is a real nerve invigorator, and will tune up
your whole system, so you can tackle the work
and worry of these days, with ease and certainty.
PROVED FOR 50 YEARS
All Chemists
1/. - 2/6 - 4/6
Ashton & Parsons Ltd.
London and Melbourne
J OAC-
C-AC-
OA'O
HIGH-GRADE SHEET METALS
BRAND
BRAND
BRASS. COPPER, NICKEL SILVER
ALUMINIUM, GILDING METAL
MANUFACTURED BY
THE COLONIAL AMMUNITION CO. LTD.
GORDON STREET, FOOTSCRAY, Vic.
Obtainable from all the leading hardware Houses in the Commonwealth.
SALES OFFICES;
VICTORIA— CoIIins House, Collins Street, Melbourne - - Phone Central 1995
NEW SOUTH WALES-58 Pitt Street, Sydney - - - Phone City 2677
QUEENSLAND— Campbell’s Buildings, Creek Street. Brisbane Phone 2382
:<dZEj C-x^-o-
o
I C -A'C-
’nnmw.Tnnwia
immnmw
man
im
snrmfflTnmmilu
u
n
'«Hn
uuumuuu
m
mu
unu
mi
IlllHltUi
lIIU
uuuu
See this brand
..on each Shirt
m Shirts
Made in Australia
—feel better, look better, and are better,
Small wonder when you consider we have been
making shirts for over 25 years. In every par-
ticular Thistle Shirts measure up to the exacting
requirements of discriminating men.
Ask also for “Thistle” Pyjamas.
Sold at all Leading Shirt Departments.
Alexander Stewart & Sons Ltd.
Makers, BRISBANE AND SYDNEY
AS4
To the credit of the Vic. Scotchbyterian
Assembly it has fixed £250 a year with a
shack as the minimum for any meenister.
The plain-spoken Brodie called the figure
agreed on a pittance, and said he would be
sorry to see one of his own three laddies
take on pulpiteering unless conditions were
still further improved.
Of a salvage party that motor-boated from
Gippsland Lakes entrance for Gabo less than
two months ago, Capt. Thompson and Diver
George Beckett have returned to Melbourne
with a tale of disappointment. The party
went to recover the miners’ gold that was
supposed to be in the ship Monumental City,
wrecked 05 years ags. They found the rem-
nants of the wreck all right, and the remains
of an iron safe; but, alas! the grave had
been rifled. The safe had evidently been
blown open by gelignite. The job of finding
the vessel was quite easy, and 65 years
would be an absurdly long time for a lot of
the root of all evil to lie waiting for easy
salvage.
“G.D.M.” goes prospecting:—
The late Zeb Lane, well known in Broken Hill and
Kalgoorlie, met an Indian maharajah on a P. & O.
boat who told him of a remote spot in the heart of
India where diamonds were mined by the bucketful
without the aid of machinery. Zeb wanted me to
go with him to secure a concession over the diamond
field from the reigning prince, with the object of
taking it to London for flotation. Diamonds —what
a new and splendid word to conjure with in a well-
constructed prospectus ! Telluride, bornite and car-
bonates were getting worn-out as symbols of the
great wealth to be won in new mines on far-distant
fields—poor bait now for feeding to the public, which
was, as always, ready to take, a few shares in any
new show provided the bell-wethers on the prospectus
were successful or notorious. With diamonds as the
mine product there was no need for either guinea-pig
directors or reports by an “M.E.” —“mining expert,”
or “mining engineer,” as the reader pleased. What
widow, clergyman or retired civil servant could
resist applying for a few shares in the Indian De
Beers Diamond Fields, Ltd. ! So it was settled, and
I found my way to Madras to meet the agents of the
Nawab.
Accompanied by a young rajah, the journey to
Banganapalie was easily though tediously accom-
plished. At the small railway station a cow-cart
was waiting, and a trip of 20 miles to the capital
of the native State was made over bush tracks
through a desolate country inhabited by pariah dogs
and children. Before a palatial marble building, set
in the centre of a village composed of mud adobe
huts, the Diwan or Prime Minister of the State met
me and offered me the hospitality of the Nawab.
Certainly he had no bedroom to offer me, but a
shakedown would be placed on the roof. A tin basin
and a gourd of water represented the furniture of
the roof, and there were no mosquito curtains, but
a plentiful supply of mosquitoes. Dinner was a
rough affair of chicken soup, chicken fricassee,
chicken cutlets, chicken curry and chicken on toast.
Four of us sat down to it, the Diwan, the Rajah,
a doctor and myself. They were all Madrassis,
educated at college and spoke English fluently. The
salon had been magnificently decorated but was
now tawdry and filthy. The night spent with the
mosquitoes on the flat roof with only the stars
winking at me was one of horror. Next morning
the Diwan told me only one other Englishman had
been in the town in 20 years, as the Nawab was
an independent native monarch not beholden to the
British raj. Further, I learnt that the palace had
recently been converted into a temporary hospital
for cholera patients, of whom there were 200 in the
rooms beneath me !
After a one-egg breakfast we went to a durbar with
the Nawab in a vast unfurnished apartment. The
Nawab sat on a throne of Austrian bent-wood at the
end of the room and listened to his Prime Minister
translating my request for a concession. His Royal
Highness, although he spoke English, could not talk
with me directly, according to court etiquette. He
wanted 12 new nautch girls in exchange for a
50 years’ concession over 18 square miles of diamond-
mines, with a 10 per cent, royalty and a substantia)
cash payment—the Nawab wanted that urgently.
Then the Nawab signified my requests would be
granted and the deputation thanked the Minister and
withdrew. The Diwan drove me in a dog-cart to the
chief diamond-mine. There was a decadent English-
man in charge, and we found him engaged in the
miser-like occupation of playing with heaps of uncut
diamonds on his office table. The shaft was 50 feet
deep and a windlass was the only machinery. Hold-
ing on to the rope, with their feet resting in holes
in the side of the shaft, were about 10 native women,
who passed the blue dirt in small osier baskets up
the shaft to the lady just above, and so to the dame
on the brace. Two men washed the dirt roughly and
every bucket yielded some diamonds. There was
evidence for miles round of ancient mining, for this
plateau had been the main source whence were sup-
plied the diamonds to the Orient for centuries. When
Aurungzebe or Akbar, kings of Delhi, wanted more
diamonds, they sent an army to Banganapalie, put
the men to the sword and carried off the females and
diamonds. The field had of course never been
worked with machinery. With the precious concession
safely in my possession, imagination led me to
sneer at Rockefeller and Carnegie. The Nawab was
so pleased with me and my Stock Exchange know-
ledge that he lent me a motor-car to go to the
railway station to catch the Madras train. The
colored chauffeur brought about one mishap after
another, and it took from six till 11 at night to do
the 20 miles. Towards the end of the journey, the
rajah and myself started to walk to. the station
while the chauffeur mended his engine. At the first
village we were chased back by dogs of every breed,
reinforced by jackals and what looked like cheetahs.
We caught the train at midnight and the chauffeur
went back to be hamstrung, disembowelled and
crucified for ruining a perfectly good Ford car.
In London my first visit was to a director of the
De Beers Diamond Co., of Kimberley, who took
exactly five minutes to tell me the co. knew all about
my diamond-field, and with the aid of two Govern-
ments and the Stock Exchange the directors would
not permit me to raise capital or float a company!
He mentioned, incidentally, that his company had
locked up in its Hatton Garden vaults £35,000,000
worth of cut diamonds which were filtered into New
York a few at a time to feed a constant and growing
demand. Within a week it was certain he spake
the truth.' "Nobody would look at either my dia-
monds or my draft prospectus, and the scheme died
stillborn. These Banganapalie diamonds are sold
clandestinely in India, but the power of the big
De Beers Corporation will keep these mines unworked
until such time as the Kimberley deposits are worked
out. Then the De Beers people will give the reign-
ing Nawab thousands of nau,tch girls and auto-
mobiles in exchange for a perpetual concession over
that desolate tableland of 18 square miles.
The adventure was one of my failures, most
regrettable because with untold wealth I had made
up my mind to buy a second pair of braces.


Stopain Toothache Gum
Instantly Ends The Ache
And Helps Save The Tooth.
Don’t put up w|th toothache a minute. You
don’t have to. Just put a little piece of Stopain
Toothache Gum in the cavity, or around the
tooth and all pain is gone as if by magic.
u
Let STOPAIN Stop That Boring Pain.
It fills up the cavity, excluding the air, and
stopping the mouth acids from acting on the
frantic, jumping nerve; hardens quickiy, and
forms a serviceable filling that will last for a
long time—until you are ready to have a per-
manent filling put in.
Why punish yourself P Why endure the
agony of toothache when a shilling box of
Stopain Toothache Gum will quickly restore
your peace of mind ?
Keep it on hand for emergencies.
Stopain Toothache Gum is sold by most
medicine vendors at a shilling a box, or sent
direct upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
520-528 Riley Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Coins Quickly.
At last a real ‘ does what it says ’ Corn Cure;
nothing like it or just -s good has ever been
known.
Every man or woman who has corns, warts
or bunions ought to try 'Handy Corn Cure at
once and see how marvellously it works. Quit
shaving your corn with a razor. You may draw
blood and cause blood-poisoning.
Handy Corn Cure will get rid of every con
you nave got without pain or disconnfot t
Handy Corn Cure is remarkable because i
never irritates or turns the true flesh sore o
raw. It can’t—it’s that antiseptic, safe am
harmless. The corn shrivels up and comes out
1/- Per Eox everywhere. Posted free b’
Sunset Drug Co., 520-528 Riley-st., Sydney
r*
w
4
■ ■
©
SSfeS
»3
f. -> /
LIVERfIP/IPH PICTORfZ
BY- —
CHAMBERLAINS
Tablets -
When a child droops.
Children droop, become sickly
and puny, if you permit them to be
constipated.
You know constipation means
that bile, sour fermentations and
constipation poisons are being
absorbed into the system.
You cannot expect a child to be
well when this is going on !
The next time your child is
droopy, picks at its meals and is
fretful, just get out your box of
Chamberlain’s Tablets.
Chamberlain’s Tablets will relieve
the little stomach, liver and bowels
of sour food, bile and constipation
poisons.
They are invaluable for children
and should be kept in every medi-
cine chest.
Watch your child’s health. Look
at its tongue often. If it is coated
white, its breath feverish, stomach
sour, you can always relieve the
trouble and restore the child to
health if you give it a mild and
gentle laxative like
Chamberlains Tablets
_ Jfor 'the Stomach e> Liver .
Diarrhoea.
Diarrhoea attacks all ages, and is equally
ratal to young and old. The great danger in
this disease is due to the frequent lack of
proper treatment in the first stages. Chamber-
lain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy is a reliable
and effective medicine, and if given in time
will prevent serious results. It never fails, and
is pleasant to take. Every household should
have a bottle on hand. Get it today. Cham-
berlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy taken at
the first unusual looseness of the bowels will
save suffering and anxiety—and loss of both
ime and money.
Take It With You.
The importance of having a bottle of Cham-
ber! ain.’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy with
them is realised by experienced travellers, as
this medicine cannot be bought on the train or
steamship. Change of water and diet often
deranges the stomach and bowels and produces
diarrhoea. As Chamberlain’s Colic and
Diarrhoea Remedy is the most reliable medicine
in use for these ailments, care should be taken
to have a bottle always on hand. Attacks of
bowel trouble nearly always come on suddenly
and when this remedy is at hand all danger
p&ay be avoided.
Be Firm.
When you ask for a bottle of Chamberlain’s
Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy, do not be per-
suaded to take anything else. Be firm in your
conviction that there is nothing so good. This
medicine has been tested in the most severe
cases of cramp, colic, dysentery and diarrhoea,
and has never been known to fail. “ Can be
depended upon’’ is an expression always used
in connection with Chamberlain’s Colic anti
Diarrhoea Remedy. One bottle goes a long
way towards relieving suffering humanity. It
never fails to give immediate and permanent
relief.
Used the
World Over
rm
m
MOTOR
QUEENSLAND
opens the door to
prosperity tor those
requiring land
Particulars ot the
millions ot acres of
Crown Land
now available will be
sent you at once,
also Booklets on the
Stale's resources—
FREE
nfamt
Address
Queensland Government
UteMtfeace and Tourist Bureau
BRISBANE
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
'T'HE Patent Spoon Feed regulates the ink-flow in
Waterman’s Ideal Fountain Pen. It does it
perfectly—so that each writer gets exactly the quantity
required. The very pressure of the hand when writing
determines the flow of ink. This is just one of the
superior pen qualities to be found only in
Waterman’s
(Ideal)
FouiitainPen
Three Types: “ Pocket Self-Filling,” “Safety,” and “Regular.”
Of Stationers and Jewellers everywhere.
L. G. Sloan, Ltd., Corner London, England.
Australia: Harold D. Dixon, 105, Clarence Street, Sydney.
SAFEGUARD YOUR HEALTH
otJ*CoHis Brotfn^s
CWorodywe
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOR
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
aiul in tlie Cough of BRONCHITIS mid
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COEIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery
01 all Chemists. Prices in England, 113, 3/-, 5/
Made in England.
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell# Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office-
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
j The Largest and Most Successful
I Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
! Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Although over £750,000 was paid dur-
ing 1913 in War Claims alone, the
Cash Bonus Distributed for 1918
| exceeded..
' Yielding Reversionary Additions
Policies of about
Accumulated Funds exceed
Annual Income over
£1,000,000
to
.. £1,700,000
. . £39,000,000
.. £5,500,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance. Business.
11. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
SOLDIERS’ DIARIES.
THE Mitchell Library is desirous of pur-
chasing for the State Archives original
diaries of Australian Soldiers taking part
in the Great War. Good prices will be
paid for good material. Address Mitchell
Library, Macquarie Street, Sydney.
For the Trustees. ..
W. 11. IFOULD.
Principal Librarian and Secretary.


CHUNDER, BEAR AND DOG AS RETURNED DIGGERS SELECTING LAND.
o
. Du\
REPATRIATION
land for
SQLDItI^S
s
m
■my,
M
(m
<?/-■?
w
G)
fr
LtS
' « v\- x
, si'\V )
iV'^/
v/j
vVs
\
U
Vs
n
/v
V
//
7/i
//
o
n
/
V:
w ■
a
r
/./
.4
v
A
S>
m
y\ Jm
jf v,r'V4.v?/i<?'7.
£fti.
4§SI
nip
m
*p>
S**t
$3
Sfc
«>'
S&S
ss
&r„&
SSI
J?WM
$Mm
p&sp.
SK
11111
.' /r tmm‘ /yjfv
, <?- w.& Ad
*fi W// : Aj' sM
:#■
A*
MZrf
:>
&?<
f/V|
5
/ .4^
vJ
,w/,
5>
fl M
gas
if .>»" / fl*
.' ■:■' Ai
&»
:?•>• .- : J? WJMi
•v //Mi
?M
1
8®
.<• .<# sV <
i@a
c -fr
f .///i 1
.v i? y •£•
£ irf 4id
f p J .i tV >y
'■'A
4: / ■;
•• /.//-
• ./• ~* / y /•'
# i ■' f j / / /
?//t//j / A
/
m
•• / / / / r
/ , f -y
' :V J £ H
/////
// / /
t i
LLo
n-ywt>»«KJT»V* )»>
«
Cobra,” 57? e Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Wants to be
A farmer, too.
Here the “COBRA”
Diggers stand
Waiting for their
Blocks of land.
“Drop the sword
And speed the plough”
Is their merry
Motto now.
So with Nature
They must fight,
But the future’s
“COBRA”-bright.


Opp. G.P.O. SYDNEY Tel. City 6336
Visit the Men’s Store
at David Jones’
MEN’S Sections are entirely distinct from rest of
building. George St. Entrance takes you right
into "Orient” departments. Individual attention is given
to your requirements. The popularity of " Orient ”
Clothing is based on its invariable quality standard.
Prices are moderate. Here are two examples :
m
.
■■■ ttaifti
M
■BMMSMK
'mmm
S(r J.
■/'Y
■
I
I
J
r
FUR FELT HATS 18/6
High-grade Fur Felt Hat in distinctive Oxford Grey mixtures.
Bound or turn-over edge. Black band and binding. 6% toy/*
CALF LACE BOOTS 30/-
Black. Exceptional wearing quality. Extended last, square
toes, medium welted soles Sizes 5 to 10. Two fittings.
(Hats and boots ground floor)
WE PAY CARRIAGE
Announcement
Re ELECTRICAL ACCESSORIES
Geo. H. A. Matthews
(late Sales Manager for W. G. Watson & Co. Ltd.)
announces that after over 10 years with his late employers he has
now commenced business as an
Elecftrical Accessories Merchant
at Corner Clarence O. Marßet
SYDNEY.
Inquiries Solicited for all Classes of Electrical Goods.
SPECIAL NOTE TO THE TRADE:—
During the past ten years I have sought every available avenue of information to fit
myself for the work I have now undertaken. I have spared neither pains nor money to
meet men in Australia and from abroad who were at the top of their profession. And
I can claim that during those years 1 have at some time or another tapped information,
and have secured the inside running, with individuals and with firms at home and abroad,
which places me in a peculiarly happy position to handle electrical accessory lines, so that I
may buy and sell on the very best of terms. Armed with this knowledge and experience
I have no fear in offering my goods and services to the merchants and electricians of
Australia. Please write your requirements, or ring City 10954.
Telegrams and Cables: GEHAMS, SYDNEY. GEO. H. A. MATTHEWS.
About Hurricanes.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I HAVE not sailed on the Southern seas
for 35 years, and most of that time
in the hurricane zone, without en-
countering a few. In 1889 it was my luck
to strike no less than three, one of them
the historical storm that did all the damage
in Apia Harbor, Samoa, when so many
lives and warships were lost. But the
worst of all storms that I have met was
the great cyclone in the New Hebrides in
March, IS93 —the most destructive that has
visited the Islands within the memory of
this generation of white and black men.
On March 4 I was on a trading voyage
with the little schooner Sovereign. We were
lying at anchor off the S.W. end of Pente-
cost Island, in an open roadstead, exposed
to all ‘weathers. The trouble commenced at
10 a.m. The nearest safe harbor was Port
Sandwich, only a few hours’ sail from Pen-
tecost. We set out for it instantly. Two
other vessels, recognising what was coming
to them, made for the same harbor, but
neither of them ever got there. When the
little Sovereign was half-way to the port I
discovered that the centre of the storm was
rapidly overtaking us, so we changed our
course in the opposite direction, making for
the open sea. The others went on, ran into
the centre of the storm and were lost.
Hurricanes are revolving storms, and the
wind changes nearly every hour. The
nearer the centre the greater the danger.
To find the centre you face the wind. About
eight points on your left is the centre. To
find which way that centre is travelling you
watch the first change of the wind. If it
is from right to left, the centre is travel-
ling from you; so you heave your vessel
to ancl wait. Every hour the weather
moderates the barometer rises, and you are
soon out of danger. But if the wind changes
from left to right the centre is approaching
you, and you have to run from it. This
is the rule south of the Equator. North
the law of storms runs the other way.
So. finding the centre of storm rapidly
approaching us, and seeing that we should
certainly be unable to get to Port Sandwich,
we altered our course. We ran north, and
were successful in getting out in the open
sea. It was rather risky navigation, as we
were surrounded by islands, the passages
between them narrow, darkness setting in,
the wind blowing with little short of hur-
ricane force, thick and furious squalls pass-
ing us. However, the wind favored us, and
we got out in the open, away from that
part of the New Hebrides group commonly
called the graveyard, on account of so many
vessels having been lost there in bad
weather.
After we had steered clear of the group,
we ran before the gale with the wind on
our port quarter, a mountainous sea run-
ning and terrific rain-squalls falling on us.
Things looked serious when the barometer
fell to 28.90. But it was our lives we were
fighting for. so we crowded on all sails the
vessel could stagger under. Anything to
escape that dreaded centre!
It seemed that the storm would never
blow itself out. For six days we ran. always
with the wind on our port quarter, changing
our course as the wind shifted. On the
seventh day it moderated. We had
now covered nearly 1000 miles in a great
circle, and found ourselves again close to
Pentecost Island, where we anchored on
Mareh 11. But what a transformation!
None of my crew recognised the place again.
There was not a house or a tree —no, not so
much &s a blade of grass—left for miles
around. The ground had a red, scorched
appearance, as if it had been cleared and
burnt ready for planting. We went on
shore to look up the trader and find out how
he and his people had fared. They had of
course soon abandoned the houses and, going
into the open, had clung to one another while
the centre of the storm was passing. The
lowest reading of the trader’s barometer was
27.40.
From Pentecost we proceeded to Ambrym
Island, where we met Dr. Lamb. His sta-
tion, the dwelling-house, hospital and store
were all level with the ground. Sheets of
galvanised-iron were embedded in trees miles
away. The doctor and his family, who had
taken refuge in the chief’s native house,
which had a stone wall built around it, were
thankful to have lost but one of the children
during the awful experience. Of course all
his provisions, stores, medicines and surgical
instruments were gone. Prior to building
his house he had asked Dr. Paton, the oldest
missionary in those islands, what sort of a
house to build that would resist a hurricane.
Dr. Paton advised him to build it under-
ground. The old campaigner knew that
nothing above ground is safe.
From Dr. Lamb's station we went to a
trader, called George Lifu, a native of Lifu
Island. Not seeing any trace of his house,
I asked about it, and learned that one blast
of the hurricane had flung it right in thf
sea. The only things left were two large
water-casks buried level with the ground.
From Ambrym, we returned to Vila Har-
bor with a full caigo and an undamaged
ship. But the destruction of property in the
path of the centre of the storm had been
enormous. Scarcely a house or a tree was
left standing. I think the greatest violence
was experienced at Ambrym. There a
large house built of coral limestone, with
walls 3ft. thick, was laid flat. I myself saw
a piece of hardwood quartering which, strik-
ing a tree end-on. had completely pierced the
trunk, 4ft. in diameter. At Port Sand-
wich, too, only one house remained standing;
the stone pier was destroyed and the
schooner Ika Vuka dragged on shore and
broke her back. And at Epi Island the
barque Empeza, driven from her anchors,
had her three masts blown out of her. and
was towed in that condition to Vila Harbor
after the storm.
J. STRASBURG.


OSCILLATING PORTAL WALL BEDS
THE HIGH COST OF BUILDING IS BEING OFFSET
by eliminating a bedroom. An Oscillating Wall Bed installed in the
living-room, dining-room or verandah gives added comfort, convenience
and appearance at a great saving of money. Get double efficiency out
of your large, airy living-rooms.
SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR RESIDENTIAL FLATS
So necessary has a disappearing bed become to the modern Flat, Hotel,
Residence or Bungalow that few projects are planned without giving the
Oscillating Portal Wall Bed most serious consideration.
I
i.
m-
i
: f||#p!
■
Interior of living room. No suggestion of bed here. Portal Wall
Bed is concealed behind French door effect. This is one of many
types of bed fronts. Any class of furniture may be attached to the
front of door *
Adopted by United States Government Housing
Commission for Housing the Workers.
SAVES IN LAND VALUE,
BUILDING COST,
FURNISHING, DECORATION,
and
HOUSEWORK FOR DELICATE
WOMEN.
Add More Units to Your Building.
Save Expensive Floor and Wall
Space.
1
m
B
e?-
pa
Oscillating Wall Bed with door wide open—showing three-foot
entrance to dressing-room—ample room to remove dressing-table or
trunks without unhanging the bed. Door revolves easily on ball-
bearing action.
AWARDED GOLD MEDAL AT INTERN ATIONAL EXPOSITION, 1915.
Oscillating Wall Bed turned at an angle, allowing free access to
dressing-room and wardrobe when bed is ready for use. The mirror
door is reversed and is now serviceable for dressing-room.
Used throughout Surf Apartments, Chicago., the largest
and one of the most fashionable Residential Flat
Buildings in the world. Total Investment, Rand,
Building and Furnishing, cost over £575,000.
BANKERS IN AMERICA.
BANKERS AND REAL ESTATE MEN
in America who have financed a large num-
ber of buildings there, representing millions
sterling of high-grade investments, con-
sider the compact apartment with concealed
beds 'the greatest revenue-producer as well
as the best type of security.
By accepting our system you are BUILD-
ING FOR THE FUTURE, and thus make
your investment safe for all time.
Perspective of Flats and Floor Plans
Post Free on Application.
Illustrated Booklet POST FREE.
Sl wMmm
'
Transformed into regular bedroom, showing bed ready for use.
Note the opening to dressing-room is entirely closed —contents of
same not being exposed, nor ivill occupants of bed be annoyed by
draughts. Dressing-rooms are always ventilated.
WHEN BUILT IN EXTERIOR
WALLS can
be Used for IN- and OUT-DOOR SLEEPING-.
AMERICAN WALL BED CO., Sole Agents,
380 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Inter-State.
Agents—
'BROOKS, ROBINSON & CO., ETD., Elizabeth Street, Melbourne,
ALLEN & STARK, LTD., Queen Street, Brisbane.
DAVIS, BROWNE & CO., Hindley Street, Adelaide.
WM. SANDOVER & CO., Hay Street, Perth. W.A.
FAIRBAIRN & HENDERSON, LTD,, Stuart Street, Dunedin, New Zealand.
Business, Robbery, etc.
Z.H.K. : One of the sights of Cairo is
the rush of the paper boys out of the
Egyptian Mail office about 8 p.m. with
next day’s paper under their arms. Each
cries at the top of his voice, “Egyptian
Mail, to-morrow!” When selling a paper
to a Digger they invariably approach him
with, ‘ Great news, Dinkum ; 60,000 Turkish
prisoners. Australians going home to-
morrow,” all in one breath. ‘
* * * *
Canuck ’: The wails of the poor butchers
protesting against insinuations of profiteering
touch my heart. Still, it is possible they
overdo- the thing. A Gippsland friend lately
sent two vealers, weighing 601 b. each, to
Melbourne market, and his account-sales note
shows a net return of 11s. lOd. each—a shade
over 2d. per lb. Three weeks before that he
sent the hide only, from a 581 b. vealer. to a
Melbourne firm, and got a net return of 13s
5d.!
* * * *
The carbide works at Electrona (Tas.)
are now settling down to a regular produc-
tion of 100 tons per week. The main diffi-
culty arose over the electrodes, those im-
ported from England during the war at a
cost of £<o per ton being failures, not a
ton of carbide being produced from two ship-
ments received. The co. is now producing
it own electrodes of a high standard. The
works are directed almost entirely by Aus-
tralians, and the carbide produced is by
actual test superior to importations from
Sweden and Canada. Additional capital
having been secured, zinc production by the
Gillies process, which is also reckoned to be
capable of recovering th e silver and lead
from such ores as the Read-Rosebery sul-
phides, is the next move.
“Fisch II.”: A Customs officer had al-
lowed a tourist to take his dog away from
the wharf without having first obtained the
necessary quarantine permit to import, and
was being raked for it by the departmental
heads. With the file calling for an explana-
tion on his desk, and the tourist and his dog
far away, the official trembled for his job.
Then a brain-wave hit him. lie ’phoned
the quarantine inspector to drop in that
afternoon and have a look at a dog he had
there. Then he rang a message home. Early
in the afternoon son arrived with Rover,
the family hound. Later on the man from
the Quarantine Department came along,
examined Rover, issued a clean certificate
to import and departed. Then the file was
endorsed “Permit attached” and returned,
while Johnny went marching home with a
shilling and Rover.
* * * •
“O. P. Queue”: Dong Woo, of Shanghai,
is very proud of his English signboard. It
reads: —
SALEALLKINDSof Cigars andcigaß
etteS ALSOWILL BE CHANGe any
KinDs of goldpounds and chick
as follow counTßles america eng
land france russia german italy
japan if anyßODy COMIng here
we give a TRue to everyßodY
And he has this in large letters alongside it:
POST NO BOILL.
Dong’s neighbor Yu Tai, who is in the boot
line, advertises with dignity:—
YU. TAI. for. Chinese. Gentleman,
and. ladys. Snots, and. Bots.
Over the road Chang Kee’s sign explains his
business:—
THETOWELS ARE WeavlNG up ofthe dif
FERENT Col Ours to sell
• * <» a
“Frederick Fishplate”: While looking for
a job in the engineering line in Melbourne
1 hit a little shop in one of the suburbs.
The sight of the lathes used—9o p.c. Aus-
tralian made—gladdened me beyond expres-
sion. While waiting to see the boss I looked
over some of the finished lathes which the
firm made. They were a useful type, but
nowhere on them could I find the maker’s
name and address. I tumbled when I saw
one ready packed and labelled for shipment
to the largest machinery importer south of
the Murray. We can’t succeed in industry
unless we advertise by stamping our pro-
ducts with the makers’ names. There’s not
a fitter in the country but can reel off at
least 10 English and American lathe-makers’
names. Look at the Dromana’s engines next
time the ship’s in your home port, and try
to find Thompson’s brand.
“Deco”: The next time a pretty girl not
on my visiting-list smiles at me, I’ll look the
other way. It was just on sailing time of
my vessel from Fremantle for Sydney when
the charmer got into conversation with me.
She spoke of a dear girl friend in Sydney
to whom she wanted a little gift delivered.
Webster was so erratic —would I deliver it
for her? I had almost said “Yes, certainly,”
when the skipper interrupted the conversa-
tion. When I turned round again the lady
had disappeared and a John Hop was there.
‘‘Did you take a parcel from that woman?”
he fired at me. I said, “No.” “Lucky for
you—you’d have been carrying opium.”
* * * *
“Exile” Before the war the United
States relied on foreign countries, chiefly
Canada and Japan, for wood pulp for mak-
ing paper. When transportation became
dear and difficult, and pulp scarcer and
dearer, the Government sent experts to
examine its own forests for suitable trees
for pulping. The reports stated that 13
trees, though never before tried for pulp,
were suitable, and were available in vast
quantities. The high price of pulp caused
many new mills to be established, and the
supply of pulp of every kind for paper has
been hugely augmented. All which leads
up to the question, “Was the American pulp
expert who condemned the trees of Tas-
mania as being unsuitable for pulp-making
right in his judgment?” The thing is very
important. Paper made from pulp is tak-
ing the place of tin for containers for milk,
jam, groceries, etc., and, being much cheaper,
its use assists to reduce the cost of living.
* * ■» *
J. W. Roberts resurrects the gold dis-
coverers :
A gold-bearing lode was worked at Montacute,
in the Adelaide Hills, overlooking the city, at least
three years before any alluvial was won in Aus-
tralia. It is still in doubt whether alluvial in
payable quantities was first discovered by Har-
graves at Sumnierhill Creek (N.S.W.) or by a
shepherd at Clunes (Vic.). My inclination is to
credit the Clunes man with being the first dis-
coverer and Hargraves with being the first worker
of a payable deposit; but there is nothing to chal-
lenge the record of Adelaide for the first production
of gold in appreciable quantity from a quartz lode.
My father was employed as supervisor of numerous
mines worked by the old S. A. Co. —his peregrina-
tions extended from Montacute to Reedy Creek —and
he left me records that in 1847 the Montacute
lode (worked for copper) showed some bunches of
rich gold ore, which was shipped separately. From
one patch he dollied a quantity of gold sufficient
for a very large brooch which was made in Adelaide
and presented to Queen Victoria by the S.A. Co.
“R.S.V.P.”: Consider the Vic. Western
District dairy-farmer and his works. In the
fertile Colac region, the most favored dairy
country in Victoria, there is a herd-testing
association. For last year’s test 600 cows
were entered. The Department of Cow-cul-
ture also had an all-State test of pedigreed
a large proportion of which were
owned by suburban dairymen. The best cow
at Colac produced 3511 b. of butter-fat during
the trial; yet 142 Jerseys, out of less than
500 entries in the all-State test, averaged
571 b. per head better than the single top-
notching Colac animal. The conclusion is
obvious. The Western district cow-cocky,
with everything to his hand, (1) just can’t be
bothered to make a serious effort towards
improving his breed of Strawberry, and (2)
even if he rears or buys a good milking sort
he can’t be bothered to either grow or get the
right sort of feeds. The more scientific
suburban cowkeeper, on his (sxB allotment
near the city, can keep a well-fed, contented,
healthy herd of milk-producers and outdo the
prosperous IGO-acre farmer who is satisfied
to sit back and take what Nature sends him.
G. D. Meudell writes from U.S.A.: —
The Government finds that the cost of living has
gone up 227 per cent, in four years. Production
has been on a greatly increased scale during the
war, and warehouses, barns and cool stores are over-
flowing with both raw- materials and manufactured
goods. Yet everybody with anything to sell has
been and still is raising prices to the buyer.
Directly war-time prohibition of the sale of alcohol
caine into force on July 1 every hotel in the
country raised the price of bedrooms. Rooms cost-
ing 10s. a day without meals jumped to 16s. Then
the prices of meals began to rise; breakfast for-
merly 2s. is now 35., luncheon 2s. 6d. is now 3s. 6d.,
and dinner usually 4s. costs ss. and 6s. Yet all
the time more and more meat, flour and vegetables
have been produced. The very first result of the
Government inquiry revealed the fact that very
few people know what it costs to make the manu-
factured articles they use every day. The Commis-
sion found that the safety-razor bought for £1 costs
less than 2s. to make. The inventor of the most
popular safety-razor made it for 2s. and wanted to
sell to the public at 4s. His associate's believed
the public would willingly give £l. So two cos.
were formed —one to make the razor at 25., the other
to buy from the first co. at 4s. and retail it at £l.
Both were satisfied and so was the ignorant purchaser.
The identical article is sold by the Quartermaster
of the American army to the soldiers, in a case
with six extra blades, for 7s. 6d. In this difference
is represented an enormous amount of economic
waste. It brings home two things: Firstly, we have
no idea of the true value (that is, the prime cost)
of the things we buy ; and, secondly, the system of
distribution of commodities is wasteful. Most manu-
factured goods used by us daily cost from six to
50 times their bench value. Here lies the chief
factor in the high cost of living. An eyewash,
costing 4s. a gallon to make, sells at £25 a gallon
in small quantities. A face-cream costs sevenpence
a pound to make, and sells at 2s. for 30z., or
17 times prime cost. A face-ointment, largely ad-
vertised, costs fourpence a bottle to produce, and
fetches 2s. retail. Most toilet articles sell for 50
to 100 times their first cost in the factory. These
small things, though, do not show the same extra-
ordinary discrepancy between cost and price as
articles like typewriters, sewing-machines, bicycles,
gums, cash registers and most articles of hardware.
The factory cost of a typewriting machine, which
sells at £2O, is £2 10s. to £4 10s. Pianos are
made at an average cost of £lO, and fetch £4O
to £lOO. The U.S. Government, in view of these
ascertained facts, is trying to establish the prin-
ciple that a customer has a right to buy every
commodity at a price' which bears a fair and fixed
relation to the cost of producing it. The con-
sumer ought to know the fair price of a bar of
soap, a piano, a razor or a gramophone just as
he knows that Is. 2d. is a fair price
for a pound of tea or 6d. for a 41b.
loaf of bread. None of us know what we ought
honestly to pay for most of the things we buy, and
there is a large and growing feeling here that it
ought to be the law that the manufacturer should
tell the truth about the cost of his wares.
RAPTURES AND RADISHES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Vegetables are commanding such prices to-day
that, while we may not say they are valued above
rubies, we are safe in asserting that they are esteemed
far above roses and lilies.”
The poets of creation sang
The wondrous rapture of the rose;
They harped of lilies, loudly rang
Their lilting stanzas to disclose
The glory of narcissus or
The meekness of the daisy low.
At length the day has come in for
The Ode to Turnips, and a score
Of triolets devised to show
The lowliness of broccolo.
The lad whose fond gift yesterday
Was roses red or lilies fair
To score must give the smiling fay
A bunch of radishes to wear.
Suburban botanists will soon
In buttonholes display a fall
Of broad-beans all the afternpon,
While in ingenious festoon v
Swede turnips on the ancient wall
Will beautify the festal hall.
A bridal bouquet of green peas
Is now the thing in higher walks.
A gift of cauliflower will please
The singer who as Mimi stalks;
On coffins of our noblest sons
(The great who cross the Stygian floods)
We’ll spread the votive onions,
And cabbages and leeks in tons,
While poesy this new theme buds—
'The languid loveliness of spuds!
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


r r-
\\
£3., >"V
‘HI
I
w\v
m*
WWwiii muiiiHint.
Vr
The time to
December Ist
secure your Xmas Gifts
to 6th inclusive
This is the week when Community Cutlery will be lavishly displayed
in the leading shopkeepers’ windows. From the large varied assortment
you will be able to select a beautiful Xmas Gift for her dainty table.
Every woman loves good silverware, so imagine the delight a whole case of
Community Plate would give. It is foremost in quality, beauty of design and
durability. It carries with it the guarantee of 50 years service. Every spoon and
fork has been reinforced to resist wear by an additional overlay of pure silver at
the base of the bowl, while the knives have hollow handles and cannot chip, crack
or turn color.
The designs are of the period types—Adam, Sheraton, Hepplewhite and Patrician,
which are not duplicated in other qualities.
Do not miss the Community week Display, on view in the leading shopkeepers*
windows December Ist to 6th inclusive.
Let “Community " solve the problem of what to give for Christmas .
ONEIDA COMMUNITY LIMITED
The Banking House, 228 Pitt Street, SYDNEY
Established 1848, Incorporated 1881, at Oneida, New York, U.S.A.
Also makers of Oneida Community Reliance Plate (guaranteed for 25 years)
Oneida Community Par Plate (guaranteed for 10 years)
m
mm


COCOANUT OIL MAKES
AN ELEGANT HAIR WASH
Girls and women who wish to keep their
hair in nice condition should be most cautious
in the soap they wash it with. Most soaps
and i»eady-inixed shampoos contain excessive
quantities of alkali. This dries the scalp,
makes the hair brittle and is very injurious.
Just ordinary colinated cocoanut oil (a pure
saponified but quite greaseless liquid), is
far better than the most costly soap you
could possibly use for a shampoo, for this
cannot possibly hurt your hair.
Merely wet your hair with water and rub
it on. A couple of teaspoonsful makes a per-
fect flood of rich, thick, creamy lather, and
cleanses both hair and scalp thoroughly. The
lather rinses out easily, and takes with it
every trace of dust, dirt, dandruff or excessive
oiliness. The hair dries quickly and evenly,
and comes out fine and silky, bright, glossy
and fluffy, appearing to be heavier than it
is. And, best of all. this colinated cocoanut
oil leaves the hair as easy to dress again as
though you hadn’t washed it at all. You can
get colinated cocoanut oil at most any chemist,
but be sure it’s “colinated,” which is not ex-
expensive— a few ounces lasting a long, long
time.
How to Rid Your Feet of
Corns and Calouses.
Half-dozen Drops of Frozol-Ice Loosen Corns or Callouses
So They Lift Off.
This is a wonderfully easy,
quick and pleasant way of
freeing your feet of corns
and callouses. Let drip a
little liquid Frozol-Ice right
on to the core of your painful
corn or callous. It evaporates
at once, then—presto! the
corn-pain vanishes.
The corn or callous
starts to wither up
and soon it may be
peeled off with finger-
tips.
is for men and women who appfeciate neat,
fashionable, attractive footwear and foot
comfort also. With Frozol-Ice vou enjoy
both. There’s no pain nor soreness while
using Frozol-Ice. nor afterwards, since it
does not even irritate nor inflame sur-
rounding, healthy flesh.
Save a corner of your dressing-stand
for Frozol-Ice, and never let your corns
ache again. You’ll be delighted with it.
True Frozol-Ice is only obtainable in the
tiny bottle with glass-rod stopper. Evefy
bottle is enclosed in a green-labelled
cover, bearing the name.
Beware of imitations of the original.
All Leading Chemists, High-class
Stores, etc.
Why Physicians
' Advise Magnesia
For Acid Indigestion.
Thousands of people whose stomachs
troubled them after eating have found that
by taking a teaspoonful of pure Salix Mag-
nesia in a half-glass of hot water after meals
they can do away with pepsin pills and other
digestive aids, and can still be able to eat
heartily of whatever foods they please, and
have no stomach trouble afterwards. Physi-
cians say that hot water forces a much-needed
blood supply to the stomach, while Salix Mag-
nesia is undoubtedly the best, safest and most
powerful neutraliser of stomach acids that can
be found. A single teaspoonful will sweeten
the food contents of a sour, acid, burning
stomach in live minutes by the watch, and
natural digestion will follow without pain or
uncomfortable feeling of any kind. Continued
use of Salix Magnesia does not weaken natural
digestion, and it is perfectly safe to use at
any time. It can be had at almost any
chemist’s, but be sure it is Salix Magnesia
you are getting. Do not use other forru3 of
magnesia for this purpose.
Twilight.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
f HE little blue bay, with its beach and
caves, dense scrub and flower-spangled
lantana, Avas very beautiful in the
twilight. The Evening Star already shone
pale above the black hill. The massed colors
—blue and gold and green—glowed brighter
than by day, and the shallow' wmvelets curled
and crested as they do on the shores of Gali-
lee, seen through the glamor of cathedral win-
dows. All the lullaby sounds that silence
loves Avere there —the plash of the quiet sea,
the crooning, of night insects, the flutter of
a wing in the thicket.
Of the New Year’s Day picnickersWvho had
shouted and romped and seethed in the hot
glare no trace remained —except the cruelly
trampled sand: the floAving tide Avould soon
wash that clean. It Avas good to loiter on the
brink and see
The moving waters at their priest-like task
Of pure ablution round Earth’s human shores,
and to know' that the dawn Avould break on
a beach marked only by seagulls’ feet and
the myriad ripples of the night breeze.
Turning at last to go, I was astonished
to see that a party of picnickers still lin-
gered under some trees on a grassy level
at the far head of the bay. My path homo
led that way, and as I drew near, the blur
of grey took shape—a crowd of many men
and Avomen. They stood close round a little
man on a table: he was showing them hOA7
to play “catscradle” —that mysterious game
with the fingers and a loop of string that
everyone has heard of and no one can
play.
TAvilight is always so full of Avondera that
1 Avas hardly surprised. Unnoticed, I dretv
closer to watch the quick fingers and observe
the strange gathering. Only when I could
see the rapt, upturned faces did. I fully
realise my painful mistake—the little man
Avas making a speech and his hearers Avere
deaf and dumb. The twilight is indeed full
of wonders.
Clearly they had spent the long holiday on
the beach, for their faces were freshly sun-
burnt, as pale faces burn, and packed ham-
pers stood on the table. There were many
children around: silent boys chased and
dodged among the adults; some girls sit-
ting on the grass seemed quite happy in their
speechless chattering. Of the women a
were white-haired, some carried babies, the
rest were young. SeA'eral were pretty but
for their strange twilight eyes—eyes that
seemed striving to hear rather than see;
searching in A T ain for the sunlight of happy
speech and sudden laughter. Yet perhaps
that strained expression, so sad to us, seems
normal and beautiful in their remote Avorld
where passionate love pleads in dumb alpha-
bet, and rage grows calm while spelling out
an oath, and no mother sings her baby
asleep.
The men’s faces were more tragic than the
women’s, whose sex-instinct, Avhile it lives,
fights every calamity and never admits de-
feat. These Avomen, with their pretty sum-
mer frocks and tinkling bangles and great
bunches of Avild-floAvers in their arms, were
like other women —except for their listen-
ing eyes. But the men, with their shackled
minds, looked and moved heavily, listlessly,
hopelessly, like prisoners under a life-sen-
tence.
The little man’s speech was soon finished.
He gpt off the table, and all the listening
eyes turned toward a black-bearded giant
with a belltopper on the back of his head
for whom room was made in the centre of
the group. A girl stepped forward, holding
something wrapped in tissue-paper, and gave
it to him bashfully, silent to her finger-tips.
He unrolled the paper: it Avas a little plated
butter-dish. His face was very gentle as he
turned it about admiringly, and bowed and
smiled, and looked at it again before put-
ting it in his breast-pocket. I could see he
had speech and hearing. His restful eyes
showed that. The moving picture was tell-
ing its own story—he had organised this
picnic of deaf-mutes, Avhose gratitude had
just been expressed in their little present.
He climbed on the table, set his tall hat at
his feet and began to speak. He held his
talking hands close to his lips as if whis-
pering to them what they should say. The
spiritual expression on his face deepened as
his lingers continued moving—always slowly,
so that even I could distinguish here and
there a letter I knew.
In our glib Avorld of speech much rubbish
may be talked in five minutes. But in that
twilight world where thought is spelt out
letter by letter, words are much too precious
to Avaste. I was, alas ! deaf to his fingers,
but I could hear the face that spoke so ten-
derly—as His surely spoke long ago to the
wide-eyed little children. And if I read
aright his speech was something like this :
"Thank you for your pretty present.- It
will always remind me of this happy
day. Sunshine —blue sky—breeze—water—
flowers: all so beautiful. Life is full of joy.
We must all meet here again next year. God
bless you.”
Love, courage, faith —these I clearly read
in nis face. Whatever the message may have
been that flashed from his fingers, it deeply
stirred every listening soul. As he got down
there followed clapping that was merely the
motion of clapping and almost soundless.
But that was nothiug. Another sound,
utterly unexpected and dreadful, rose from
the crowd and set my skin tingling. I can-
not describe it—can only suggest it as a
half-smothered cry of pain. It was indeed
a dreadful, strangled sound—suffocated
emotion straining up from throats struggling
to speak. And yet it expressed joy; that was
clear as they crowded round the big man
to shake his hand, and then rapidly dis-
persed. Smiling women flickered fingers at
one another as they kissed “goodbye” ; men
took up the hampers, and the main party
straggled away with the big man into the
shadowy bush-traclc that led to the ferry
wharf. I watched the last disappear, and
then turned homeward up a path on the
other side of the bay.
At the top of this path stands a solitary
lamp-—a municipal outpost at the junction
of two roads which, with the surrounding
vacant land, are still covered with low scrub.
Usually it illuminates nothing but the
energy of the alderman who owns the corner
block. On that wonderful evening three
while-frocked girls stood within its circle of
light, and one of them was she who had
presented the butter-dish. They were star-
ing and pointing, evidently in doubt as to
the way they should go. I went up to them.
The butter-dish girl met me with flying
fingers, naturally thinking I was one of their
party. Realising a stranger her hands fell
to her side, and she stood watching. I
thought of my notebook and pencil, but
feared she might be unable to read. Her
eyes never left mine. I pointed toward the
distant ferry wharf with a facial note of
interrogation. She shook her head. Then
inspiration came to me. There were only
two ways to Sydney, by ferry and by tram- •
it must be the tram they wanted. Anyone
with two hands can make a T in the dumb
alphabet. I made it—perhaps the largest
capital she had ever seen. Her smile was
delightful, maternal; I was her infant, tak-
ing my first step. She laid a little curved
forefinger in the palm ,of her hand, and her
eyes said with the prettiest accent, “You
must know R when you see it, you funny
old thing.” I rose to the occasion. I
stopped her hands before they could shape
the next letter. Remembering the five vowels,
1 pressed my forefinger proudly on my thumb
and looked round for applause. Six eyes
applauded! Rut M, M, M—what the Devil
was M? Little Butterdish saw my hesita-
tion, and, true woman that she was, in-
stantly covered it with three little fingers
laid together.
How graciously they received and wel-
comed that foreigner, with his grotesque an-
tics, who had wandered into their far realm !
I caught myself flapping my hands to hearten
them up, and violently nodding my head as
evidence of good faith, so anxious was I to
express in speaking gestures my desire to
serve them. I pointed up the scrub-covered
hillside, to where the lighthouse raws sw’ung
slowly round the sky. They nodded and
readily followed me in Indian file as I slowly
picked a way through the low scrub.
The soul also has its rare senses, that no
physical defect can destroy. It is likely
that those girls felt more keenly than I the
wonder of the Stars that came clos“r through
the deepening blue, and the spicy sweetness
of the scrub, and the straying night breeze
that streaked with cool the balmy warmth
of the lingering day. And it is quite certain
that all the time our souls were calling and
answering to one another, because the
quietude of long friendship was upon us when
at last we came out on the road, and blinked
smiles at one another in the bright waiting-
room. Butterdish produced a tablet and pen-
cil from somewhere, wrote, and showed it to
me: “Thank you.” The other girls neeped
and nodded smiles. I wrote: “A Happy
New Year!” She impulsively snatched the
tablet from me. “Same to you !”
Far off I heard the tram. We went out
on the road. There little Butterdish touched
my arm and pointed over the shadowy val-
ley from which we had climbed, at the last
afterglow beyond the black towers and glim-
mering lights of the distant city, and the
still waters of the winding harbor and the
splendid Evening Star. And even while she
pointed she looked up at me and made the
strangest little sound in her throat. Not at
all a dreadful sound: it was a beautiful
sound—a cry of joy from a soul that was
never dumb.
DOWELL O'REILLY.
A Journey by Angles.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE coastal road Gladstone to Cairns
being closed by shiplessness, I jour-
neyed by angles—north and a little
west to Rockhampton, and all west
to Longreach by train; north and east
by car to Winton; east to Townsville by
rail; north by launch to Johnstone River;
more launch from Innisfail to the rail-head,
and by rail to Cairns. That run across
the Mitchell-grass plain by car was done
in an hour of dusk and three hours of moon-
light—l2o miles in five hours—good going
for a car loaded with passengers and piled
high with baggage on running boards and
bonnet. It was a fine run, and when Venus
dipped below the plain we knew it was J
o’clock and that Vindex was not far away.
Great horse-teams drawing wool met us
before dusk, and showed at night far off
upon the plain as great square black clouds
with winking camp-fires at their feet.
The runs here play a new trick on the
incurable and inimitable stupidity of the
sheep. Finding that gates leave them-
selves open, the graziers have introduced a
crescent lane, wire-fenced on either side;
and the sheep, seeing not the full way
through, treat each entrance as if it were
a closed gate and cross it to the new
beginning of the fence.
Winton was crowded out and the hotels
had beds arranged as in a hospital ward;
but I found a room in an unfashionable
place and was glad to be out pf the fashion.
I looked for the “starving North” here
and didn’t find it. I didn’t find it at Hugh-
enden, where the State refreshment-rooms
put up a peace-time meal and the bar was
full. I didn’t find it anywhere else, either,
because the only “starving North” that ever
was existed in the offices of the Brisbane
Courier, the S. M. Herald, the Argus, and
other like newspapers that hope for the
worst. Beyond Townsville, indeed, the
“starving North” became farcical; existent
only in the bitter headlines of journalists
who for all the rest of the year tell the facts
of a North stuffed with butter and meat and
sugar and fruit and corn. To those facts
they will now return without an apology
for the stinking-fish tales told for the per-,
version of politics. Not anywhere did I
find real privation. Flour shortage, though
inconvenient, was never dire enough to put
people to the use of maize-meal, albeit
that despised bread-stuff raised some of the
finest men in Australia —up the Hawkes-
bury, and in other places on Sydney-side.
The better kinds of tobaccos ran out, cer-
tainly, at times; but there was always more
flour before the time came to turn the sack
inside out.
These yarns of the “starving North”
helped the profiteer greatly. One man
brought a 50 of flour overland as personal
luggnge, and it became a hideous incubus
to him before, he was through. As for the
profiteer, a scoundrel charged me 3s. 9d. for
a tin of Lake’s Creek sheep’s tongues—four
tongues small enough to have belonged to
nightingales; and it was old stock, too. Rice
comes from China, not Brisbane or. Mel-
bourne, and its Cairns price used to be
14s. a mat. There was no strike in China
or on China boats, yet the Cairns price of
rice in August was 375. fid. to 40s. a mat.
Potatoes at £26 a ton were held for £35,
and then produced as if th«y had come by
aeroplane. But that's all one to a Govern-
ment which permitted the purchase and ex-
port of Australian leather to the U.S. and
so helped the skying of prices for Aus-
tralian boots.
Townsville, or Place desla Revolution, has
also had its historians of exaggeration—
mostly, however, the exaggerations of the
“Revolutionaries.” At their trial “the
leaders” said that their real business was
that of peacemakers, and on the evidence
they were discharged.
I have the greatest respect for all de-
serving revolutions, and even so if they are
not successful; but it is necessary in a
revolution that somebody should at least
offer himself to death, so that that par-
ticular revolution shall not be brought into
contempt. In this case a revolution stopped
as soon as Gie Inspector of Nuisances cried
“Desist, or I’ll bring the Mayor!” It also
stopped in laughter because every Australian
knows he has a vote, and that the sacred
right of insurrection obtains only when re-
dress by peaceful methods is impossible. It
is related in Townsville, by the way, that
the best occurrence of the emeute w T as when
a boy of 14 said to a woman obstructing his
view of a policeman: “Would you mind
standing out of the road, Mum? We want
to shoot the cop.” Apparently there are
more polite lunatics than Ichabod Bronson
knew. But Australia is too far away from
Monarchy to seek revolution if but King
Profiteer be dethroned. Australia knows
that he who lives by the sword shall perish
by the ballot-box, and it will accept slow
justice with reason unless these Tory
anarchists whose proper place is in coalition
with the anarchists of the I.W.W. are suc-
cessful in tempting him to take a quicker
justice with revenge.
Early on a fine morning we left Towns-
ville in a launch of about 25 tons with 6d
passengers, two Himalayas of luggage fore
and aft, two tons of mails and everybody
with his food for the voyage to the “starving
North.” An A.I.F. captain was my mate,
and we had three pounds of spiced beef,
two loaves of bread, one bottle of pickles
and two of beer. Magnetic Island went well
down, and the long swell came to us from
the unseen reef and rolled us truly and well.
To kill time we fed twice, and the launch
man put on the billy, and the tea was good,
and the islands very beautiful; and so we
got through the long day. Twice the oil-
engine stalled, and there was a moment’s fear
that we might drift in the shipless sea until
the Day of Judgment and die of boredom
before the Day arrived ; but she had a wisp
of a sail and even in that calm air we could
have got steerage way.
By the Family Islands in the dusk, and
my good friend Venus rose in the half-
dark which changed the sea’s indigo to
blackness. Islands came out of the north
and drifted astern, and the swell came more
gently from the distant reef. The Bar-
nards floated up, and the sky with a quart
of stars to the acre sailed higher, and then
the winking leading lights of Flying I ish
Point showed the way, and we had a “starv-
ing North” drink at Innisfail, and turned
in.
The Johnstone is a great, wide river, deep
enough in its channels, and draining . some
of the fattest lands on earth. The railroad
to the South is halted for the steel for a
high-level bridge, 60 feet above high water,
for the convenience of shipping to Goondi
Mill, and without a knowledge of com-
parisons one asks why it didn’t cross the
Johnstone above Goondi. However, from
the north bank of the Johnstone the rail-
road is finished to Cairns, and the John-
stone-Ingham gap and the gaps north and
south of Mackay should be complete and
give a through road Brisbane to Cairns
within three years. ,
From the Johnstone to Cairns the line
goes through the richest of country—
great fertile plains between high mountains ;
canefields and virgin scrub and all the
variants of green: sage-green of the moun-
tains, black-green of the scrub, sap-green of
the tree-fern and the fields of arrowing
cane. The Pong is everywhere with his
flatty and a matsail, trying to make . the
Johnstone look like a bit of Pearl River.
At the railhead there is red soil and green
cane, and red ballast and red navvies and
mist upon the hills. From Babinda rise
the long scarps of Bartle Frere, and later
come rocky faces with distant waterfalls,
like lace, snaking down them. So down
the beautiful Mulgrave Valley to the mill
by the wide sprawling river, and fat cattle
knee-deep in the shallow reaches; cultiva-
tion and lantana, everywhere beauty and
somewhere use, although the guava, which
supplies some of the beauty, should be de-
clared a noxious plant, seeing that it is
such a general host for the fruit-fly. And
at Cairns the beauty of sea added to the
beauty of scrub, field and mountain.
Then three weeks among the big timber,
and on old tracks, and old mining camps, and
many nights of the pleasant Australian habit
of sitting down upon the earth and having
a pitch ; old friends who welcomed me as
one risen from the dead, and old gossips
talking of the past far into the night—of
that past when we didn’t go to bed, except
occasionally. Then back to Cairns, resigned
to another voyage in a launch and finding
a China liner. Had the Legislative Council
passed the Ships’ Acquisition Bill there
would have been no trouble at all. For ships
have been refused the Government while
private persons chartered boats like thp
Flinders and charged £6 per ton freight
Brisbane to Cairns. They all profiteer. Thus
the Townsville-Cairns launches were threat-
ened with refusal of motor fuel until they
agreed to carry only the suppliers’ mer-
chandise.
So I found the St. Albans to take me
south-easterly instead of south, west, south-
west, east and south again. We put to sea
on a splendid Sunday morning, sailing
proudly through all that beauty of sea and
range and scarp, and away from the white
town among its palms to the quiet summer
lake, and its islands. Far east upon the
skyline there was a sudden rising as of
boiling .milk where the water met the sudden
opposition of a hidden reef, and rose in
anger, but to slip back gently into peace.
There was a miscreant at the piano playing
“Juanita” with one finger, and I fled from
him to see ships passing again on duty
among the blessed isles.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


Ml i hfr
pti wn
5
o
&
W#
urn
m
m
ml
m.
&
m.
m
%?•*>
Slia\>e
at- express - speed
SHAVING is no trouble to the
man who uses a Gillette—not
even the trouble of stropping!
Take the easy route to quick, clean
shaving—buy a
Be sure that the Diamond Trade-
mark xoith the name GILLETTE
appears on every razor and blade.
To-day more than 12,000,000 men use
the GILLETTE. The 12 blades sup-
plied hawe 24 shaving edges that
STAY KI—IN without stropping. The
Gillette blade is ADJUSTABLE to
suit the? beard.
All stores 23/6.
S. Hoffnung & Co., Ltd.,
Wholesale Agents, Sydney.
«NOWN TMg
• 3AO 01WOM
r<
: rV
WmM
Mr
. Hk.
••'- L.. «r-:\
f .-=
v*?=
1.35,
/
g |k ;&:i &; f«i p?«S1»f ,£
W-3£ 5
KH-J
SM i |-i
i '
COVE
p
TH
E
A,
PTH
If
Sherwin-Williams
Paint
F=>R? EZP/K FEEZED
The frequent changes of temperature in Australia
are the severest test that could be applied to
any paint. S-W-P does not chip, crack or peel.
S-W-P weathers the most trying conditions.
It supplies to all woodwork a hard covering that is
impervious alike to heat, cold and moisture.
S-W Paints “Cover the Earth” and the best-
preserved homes in Australia. Why not yours?
The Sherw/n ■ Williams Co (Australia)Ltd.
Paint, Color and Varnish Makers,
63 PITT STREET SYDNEY.
Agents everywhere.
Made in Australia from
Australian Material by
The Hydro-Electric Power and
Metallurgical Co. Ltd.
Works: Electrona, near Hobart, Tasmania.
Tasma Carbide is absolutely the equal of the best carbide produced in any part of the world. Due to its high
percentage in gas production it is most economical in use.
Bemg tree from phosphorus it is ideal for oxy-welding purposes, whilst the brilliancy of illumination and steadiness
ot the light it yields make it the perfect carbide for use in home-lighting systems and for vehicles of every class.
Insist on “TASMA” Brand —Australian and Best.
Full particulars and supplies from
DISTRIBUTING AGENTS:—
Victoria—Noyes Bros. (Melbourne) Pty., Ltd.,
499-501 Bourke Street, Melbourne,
k N. S. Wales—Noyes Bros. (Sydney) Ltd., Clarence Street, Sydney
'v Queensland Samuel Allen & Sons, Ltd., Brisbane & Townsville.
South Australia—Arthur H. Hasell, Port Adelaide.
West Australia—Arthur H. Hasell, Perth.
Tasmania—Gillies Bros.,
74 Collins Street, Hobart.
■X
m
hi I
IIUV
IUW w


JABORINE
Hair Tonic.
For Falling: Hair.
This old-established, genuine prepara-
tion is absolutely the best ever intro-
duced for falling hair.
Falling hair is a prevalent trouble
to-day as a result of the recent
influenza epidemic. A few applica-
tions of “Jaborine” stops the falling,
and continued use strengthens and
makes the hair grow thick.
Price 3/6 the Bottle,
POST FRER.
Sole Proprietors:
CRA>G & AITKEN,
664 George Btreot, SYDNEY.
Established over SO yean.
■Of
a
ItlL^
II I 1
i ii Mjj
w
‘■mu*
flit
%#4
JHC
ii««n CO'OL AND
REFRESHING -
/rom
O/2/y. n —-
BITRO-PHOSPHATE WILL. MAKE
YOU STRONG AND WELL.
Thin, tired, exhausted, overworked men,
and women who have become haggard, care-
worn, nervous wrecks, both owe their con-
dition to lack of nervous energy—to a run-
down, weakened nervous system. The only
wav in w T hich to regain the strength, health,
vigor and endurance, and at the same time
to put on pounds of solid fat and muscle, is
to supply to the nervous system those phos-
phoric elements the lack of which causes all
the trouble. For this purpose there is
nothing' better than to regularly take a sgr.
tablet of Bitro-Phosphate with each meal.
According to high authority this organic
phosphate is at once digested and actually
converted into living tissue, which doubtless
accounts for the excellent results reported
from all parts of the country. Weak people
grow strong, endurance increases, and
fatigue disappears; sleep returns to the
sleepless, dull eyes become bright, the com-
plexion regains the natural bloom of health,
and you once again enjoy that feeling of
health and well-being which depends entirely
upon a strong, healthy, perfectly nourished
nervous system. If you want to feel better,
look better, do more and better work, go to
vour chemist to-day and get a pn'-Ipme of
Bitro-Phosphate, take as directed, and begin
to enjoy life.— Advt.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Going Up"
Criterion “Lightnin’
Palace “Old Lady 31
Tivoli “Mv Lady Frayle”
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s Grand Opera
Royal “Theodore and Co.”
King’s “’Possum Paddoek”
Tivoli “Tails Up”
Hoyt’s Db Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Olympia Wirths’ Circus
It was, perhaps, characteristic of the grand-
opera rush, afi Melbourne Majesty’s last
week that, whereas the oft-told ’ “Faust”
drew a great matinee attendance, a first
performance of “Lucia” fetched fewer people
and four tirileS,. as much applause. “Faust”
was noteworthy for the force of Amy Castles’
singing in the prison scene. Previously she
had ranged from good to middling only,
her vocal treatment of the Cathedral scene
being less impressive than her subsequent
swoon, which smote the stage a good hard
blow. But in the final trio of the opera
Amy was a prima donna of all importance.
“ 'POSSUM PADDOCK," AT MEL-
BOURNE KING’S.
John Cosgrove as Dad McQuade.
The orchestra was too loud for tenor Errolle
and basso Valenti, but not a bit too voci-
ferous for the Marguerite, who fairly earned
her salvation by the wafting angels. The
warble of Miss Castles on this occasion en-
titled her to be comparatively undelightful
in her “Butterfly” on Saturday, when the
whole performance fell below the level of
years ago. Harping back to “Faust,” this
journal would like to know whether Loder
has shaped his Valentine on recollections
of the Pirate King in “Pirates of Penzance.”
His poses in the scene before he went to
the war suggested a pirate who had mis-
laid his skull-and-crossbones flag, and when
he reappeared in tall black boots and a short
tunic he wanted only a cutlass to make him
completely comic.
* * * *
“Lucia” was a capital example of old
Italian opera produced with all the old
Italian effects of high-pressure singing and
unemotional chorus. There was no pre-
tence of realism in the Donizetti age. Sweet
music flowed like a stream of sugar-candy
in solution; principals faced the audience
instead of glaring at one another when they
were supposed to be having an altercation;
choristers lined up on either side of the stage
clothed in a weird incongruity of costumes,
like waxwork figures on parade. The con-
ventionalities were duly observed in the
“Lucia” outbreak, and all went merry as
a convent bell. Gertrude Johnson sang the
name-part, and Louis Carl Formes, Val-
enti, Mummery and a pleasing minor lady
helped her in the immortal sestet (so called),
which is oftener a trio and which always
has the wildly-decorated chorus giving
tongue in the background. The big con-
certed piece, as well as many other bursts
of sorrow and sweetness, was given with
old Italian emphasis.
“Lucia” aims at ex-
citing the audience,
without attempting to
naturalise the situa-
tion, and for all pur-
poses of sentimental
uproar the co. at Her
Majesty’s filled the
bill. In the Mad
scene and elsewhere
Miss Johnson" showed
herself something of
an actress as well as
an almost brilliant
lyric soprano. The
audience loved her.
All the same, “Lucia”
is not being repeated
this week, though
“Romeo and Juliet,”
the latest arrival in
the repertoire, gets
two performances.
At Melbourne Royal
the long iDnings of
“Lightnin’ ” closes to-
night (Thursday) to
make way for the
musical story of
“Theodore and Co.”
In this the Comic
Ops, including Flo-
rence Young, Maud
Fane and Gladys
“ 'Possum Pad-
dock," at Mel-
bourne King's.
Vivian Langley as
Elizabeth.
Moncrieff, will be reinforced by Theodore
Leonard, who brings his part from S’Africa.
“Tails Up,” the revue of the moment at
Melbourne Tivoli, is picking up new notions
as it goes along, and an excuse for its title
is offered at every performance in the form
of a song in the finale to the first part.
Minnie Love sings the song, the burden of
its glad refrain chancing to be Tails Up.
Otherwise the collection of items might have
been known to fame as Thumbs Down.
“’Possum Paddock” remains Kate llow-
arde’s most profitable selection at Melbourne
King’s. So far there is no threat of de-
parture, and probably the McQuade family
will hold the deck until the Tait panto, un-
covers its million marvels.
** * *
Melbourne’s morbid school of landscape
pointing will not be exhilarated by the art
of Dattilo Rufibo recently shown at the
Decoration room there. Dattilo’s vociferous
palette mentions the sleepiest scenery like
an auctioneer’s bellman, yet there are few
efforts before which you cannot hear yourself
speak. Even the vivid study of Leura never
calls for a silencer, and in the snapshot of
Queenseliff, with its background only paral-
leled by the fires of the opal, the artist has
made the colors chime and produced a sooth-
ing effect bn the spectator. The same im-
pression is noticeable more or less in the
large “Australian Landscape,” the rather
charming “Open Road,” and one or two Har-
bor views. But the sunny over-emphasis
goes into a decline in the unassuming por-
trait department. It is a less insurgent
Dattilo Rubbo who produces the compara-
tively dull portrait of the out-of-work and
the dispirited female manufacturing influenza
masks.
Another picture-show in Melbourne: —
Margery Withers’s display of pictures at Melbourne
Athenaeum is strongest in the water-color portraits,
where the effect of a likeness is enhanced by a sparkle
in the medium. She seems more constrained and
immature in the use of oils, and is rather inclined
to tackle ambitious canvases before her technique has
ripened enough to carry her through. The largest
portrait group, representing a painfully immobile
mother and two wooden children, is a successful
pictorial remonstrance against the absurd lifelike-
ness attempted by other iJalnters. The study of a
red-heaaed Digger (No. 8) is even more so. The
smaller landscapes are much more merciful to a
tired eye. In fact, seieral repeal evidence of' Margery
Withers’s determination to become the show daughter
of a brilliant father.
Hoyt’s picture-galleries in 'Melbourne
hang Ethel Clayton on the line this week.
Ethel is a jar of molasses camouflaged as
“Maggie Pepper.” Wallace Reid tastes finan-
cial agony in “The Dub,” but a beamiiul
cash-register called Alice (or Muriel! pro-
duces a I,UOO,UUU-dollar poultice to ease his
pain. Hoyt’s, by the way, are also turning
on “Why I Wouldn’t Marry,” which might
be mistaken for the Tait drama "The Eyes
of Youth” in the twilight. “Human Desire”
at the Majestic is a throng of poses by
Anita Stewart in the rather unconvincing
character of a Dago female who goes to
New York to succor the indigent infant
population. The second study. “The Man
Who Turned White,” has a warm Arabian
background, and H. B. Warner is responsible
for the change of color.
Wirths’ Circus is in its last nights in
Melbourne; then, after a week’s walk-about
it will go off to look for the moa.
Meanwhile there is a very noticeable
improvement in the breathless "second-
sight” business of the Mysterious Howards,
and the perils of aerial whirling have made
themselves painfully obvious to the gaping
crowd. At last Saturday’s matinee one of
the young Zoe Sisters, whilst being lowered
from a distant height, let go her teeth-hold
and fell to the ground.
* * * *.
“Nothing but the Truth” was revived at
Sydney Criterion, in the presence of a con-
gested house, on Saturday. But after next
Friday M. B. Figman’s astonishing clothes
and the beautiful face and figure of Miss
Robertson will be but memories so far as
Sydney playgoers are concerned. The pair
are returning to America, and their place at
the Cri. will be occupied by “Lightnin’,”
the Melbourne record-breaker, and one of
the loudest theatrical noises heard in New
York for years.
“Going Up” is still booming at Sydney
Majesty’s, and the haunting tunes still come
from the orchestra trench, despite the strike
of union musicians. After their successful
trial on Saturday night, the volunteers were
cheered from stage and auditorium, and the
J.C.W. conductors, in conjunction with the
musical chiefs from other theatres, are still
hard at work building up new bands. It’s
going to be an interesting fight.
“My Lady Frayle,” being a show which
travels largely on music, has been choosing
new musical retainers to take the places of
. the A Flat strikers in Sydney Tivoli band-
pit. Conductor Will Quintrell has been
about the busiest man in the Castlereagh-
street house lately.
“Old Lady 31” (still residing at Sydney
Palace) has been rejoicing that her dancing-
days are over, now that all union melody is
cut off. For all the drama of old age cares,
the orchestra well could be filled with water
and goldfish.
$ $
Sydney Lyceum has a winner these hot
nights in Captain Hurley’s pictures of the
Antarctic. If you go to the evening session
you will hear the Captain himself tell the
story of the months during which the Polar
god slowly but surely closed upon the expedi-
tion till even the plucky little Endurance
was crushed in his fingers. Penguins and
sea-elephants and dogs make the first part
of the film look like a lesson in nature-his-
tory, but the figures of Shaekleton and Wild
turn it into an epic of courage and endur-
ance. The Strand and Crystal Palace show
“Magda,” with Clara Kimball Young as the
heroine who disobeyed dad. It is a heavy-
weight picture full of shuddering tragedy,
amf. Clara is just the girl to carry that sort
of thing off even in a day when the public
demands that life should be all souffle. At
the Hayma||pf ; ahd Shell, Pauline Frederick
comes handsomffy “Out of the Shadows”
thrown upon her young life by the accusation
of having murdered her husband. When the
sunlight beats upon her once more, s,lie takes
husband the second unto herself. At "Hoyt’s
and the Haymarket, Bill Hart puts all the
old and a few hew tricks into “Border Wire-
less.”
Adelaide Repertory Theatre has given
Granville Barker and Ilousman’s fantastic
“Prunella.” Zoe Reid repeated a success of
years ago as the girlish heroine whom Pier-
rot’s kisses wake to real life, but when
most emotional she tended to be inaudible.
Sound actor Ray Walsh, though_not the ideal
pierrot type, was effective in the part. The
revellers woke up the play whenever they
were on ; Kohler was at the head of them,
and it is the best work he has done. Also
little Lionel Nave was a success in the small-
boy part. There is some talk of repeating
the performance for a short run.
Adelaide could hardly get enough of “Kat-
inka,” but it had to go. The main fea-
tures of the season were Welch’s capable
rendering of the Phil Smith parts, and
Gladys Moncrieff’s improved acting. In the
second act of “Maytime” (which the pre-
“NOTHING BUT TEE TRUTH," AT
SYDNEY CRITERION.
Van Dusen (Pirie Bush) and Ralston
(MacBarnes) conspire.
sent writer prefers to a dozen Katinkas),
she made —aided by Roberts, Leslie Holland
and Stirling—the scene at curtain-fall a
thing to stay in the memory. The Tivoli
is closed for the moment. At the Majestic
are Leonard Nelson (immensely popular),
Mandeno’s dogs and the supposed electric
automaton Phrozo. At West’s, Alice Joyce
offers Muriel Starr a lesson in the playing
of “Within the Law,” with details which the
stage could not show, and at Wondergraph
Bill Hart, being in a bank, is necessarily
deprived of his horse. But he has his “gun”
with him.
Daisy Kennedy has moved on from her
native Adelaide to Sydney after rousing
Town Hall audiences to echo the superla
tives of London. By a marvel of bad man-
agement, Gustave Walther followed her im-
mediately at the Town Hall, and found the
public naturally surfeited with even the best
fiddling. And John Dempster and Brewster
Jones have given first-class concerts. And
at the Conservatorium Prof. Harold
Davies has given another of those musically-
illustrated lectures which amuse and in-
struct at once.
“Naming”: Will someone please tell me
where I may go on the next day pf joyous
celebration and hear a band patriotic enough
to perform our very own Australian anthem ?
The war-period provided many occasions for
making it known. Often I listened hope-
lessly while an agitated group of musical
gymnasts discharged “Gor’ Save” and “The
Star-spangled Banner,” the classic dreari-
ness of the Russian hymn, “The. Marseil-
laise,” and the chirpy Italian national song
of hope. But nothing Australian: even
“Advance Australia Fair,” a feeble thing,
which is hardly national or patriotic, rarely
made an appearance. Yet Tourrier’s “Aus-
tralian National Song” (words by Arthur
Adams), which as a musical effort alone is
better than all except the Russian and
French anthems, is utterly neglected, and I
doubt if one Australian in 10 ever heard a
bar of it. *
“Ike”: A Poverty Point par. (20/11/T9)
suggests that Australia might adopt the idea
of a song revue. One Graham, of Graham’s
Marionettes, who toured this country with
Fuller, originated it. With his own head
and a marionette body he impersonated
singers of bygone days warbling the ditties
that made them famous. “Champagne
Charlie” and Rickards in “Cerulia Was
Beautiful” were two of his numbers, and it
spoke well for the old ditties when the audi-
ence joined in the chorus of such a veteran
as “The Man Who Broke the Bank at Monte
Carlo.”
“Aisle Seat”: “T. D. Emdee” (B.
20/11/’l9) says he can imagine how well
G. W. Anson would play Captain Hook in
“Peter Pan.” No doubt he would do it
splendidly; but actually he plays Smee, the
amiable old pirate with the sewing-machine,
acted in Australia by Fred Cambourne. Cam-
bourne, by the way, has done some really
notable character work, but he pays a price
for his genius, making himself so different
in each production that the audience remem-
bers him only as “the chap that played the
old codger” or “that bloke with the sneeze. ’
FATTY DEGENERATION OF THE ART.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Campanini, director of the Chicago Grand
Opera Association, writes: —“I seriously believe
grand opera is becoming a back number. The days
of this particular art form are numbered.” And
Madame Melba, reproaching opera-singers for their
shameless fatness, says they eat too much, and are
too lazy ’■ with it. She plainly holds the view that
this increasing obesity may prove fatal to opera.
Now when I go to hear the sweet
Soprano with the boys,
And Butterfly comes forth to meet
Her Yankee spark, on twinkling feet
A mass of avoir’pois,
I think:“My dear, alas, you eat
Too often, and too much is meat.”
AVhen Carmen, saucy lass and bold,
With gay defiance sings,
Apd shows a girth no man may hold,
And rippling chinlets manifold,
I miss the pleasing things,
And say, “You eat, when all is said,
Too many breakfasts—all in bed.”
Poor Mimi, who should be so frail,
Comes on with woeful eye
To sing the very touching tale
Of sickness and of bitter bale,
And how she soon must die.
I say: “That’s very well, but, sweet,
It’s obvious you over-eatl”
This shameful self-indulgence must
Be met with stern design.
The singer with Gargantuan bust
Will live upon a charcoal crust
? Till she is slim and fine;
i If not, grand opera will close,
Outdone by agricultural shows.
VICTORIA.
D.


m
V
m
*f
il
u
4 «
m
fr 'S
V
V
’• '»!
< ' ’
h. ' #-*
• V,
il
tfgHtf
§ ;^kS*»l Vf~^p-
; : - :: :
mm
is
■
<®kS
••.«“ «£
*!<
i
: i
~zrz:JX<--
Wmt
amgm
i-«*T
%b»
-r
■''Ss.. ■
0
A
WHEAT ELEVATORS, GLEBE ISLAND, SYDNEY. (H. Teesdale Smith, Contractor.)
Modem Methods of Construction, where 250,000 bags of KANDOS CEMENT exclusively will be used.
Manufactured by N.S.W. CEMENT, LIME & COAL CO., LTD., Perpetual Trustee Chambers, 33-39 Hunter St., Sydney.
7 7 7 TELEPHONE CITY 10T03.


£B5.
9
m
£l7/10/
£l6/10/3
£25.
STEWART DAWSON’S
STEWART DAWSON QUALITY in Diamonds is
the criterion of value throughout the Commonwealth,
and the firm’s long-standing reputation as Diamond
Merchants is a guarantee of confidence for every
buyer. Your choice may safely rest upon this
guarantee. Call and inspect at any of the Stewart
Dawson establishments.
ALL DIAMONDS SET
IN DEAL PLATINUM.
STEWART DAWSON’S
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth (Aust.),
Regent Street, London.
£lO/10/-
Circle Diamond Brooch.
£B/10/-
Circle Diamond Brooch.
RARE DIAMONDS
OUR TEN HUGE ESTABLISHMENTS are daily
devoting their Ready Cash resources to provide, clients
with the world’s best values in precious stones,
jewellery, etc. The purity and brilliance of the
Diamonds in Stewart Dawson’s Rings proclaim their
intrinsic character.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE
CONTAINING RING SIZE CARD.
TEN ESTABLISHMENTS.
Auckland, Wellington. Christchurch, Dunedin.
Hatton Garden, London.
£llO.
POVERTY
POINT
MOËT &
CHANDON
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
Lionel Bignold, just dead in England, was
a cousin of George and William, both of
whom Australia knew and liked well.
Lionel also appeared in this country, but his
low-comedy did not make any great appeal,
and his flying visit was soon forgotten.
“Peter”; I blame Fred Macdonald for
the curious success of the raw and ungainly
“ ’Possum Paddock” at the King’s. ~ Mel-
bourne has a happy recollection of the young
actor as Dave in "On Our Selection,” and on
that diverting caricature he won an eminence
that nothing thereafter could disturb. The
mere announcement of his name on the bills
brings to the King’s the frequent connoisseur
of bush humor who, while expecting another
Dave, is unable to discover that Billy
McQuade is a hollow fabrication. Every
movement he makes is reckoned amazing,
and he gets roars from absolutely laughles-
lines. It is the most unnerving case of per-
sonal ascendancy I have ever encountered.
“Norbell”: Reference by “T. D. Emdee”
13/11/T9) to Julius Knight’s pet part.
Du de Berault, recalls that Julius was an
inconspicuous member of Walter Bentley’s
CP. in playing Serafina Dell-Aquilla' in
"The Fool’s Bevengg,” an adaptation of
\ ictor Hugo s “Le Boi S’Amuse.” Bentlev
was Bertuccio, and J. Cathenrt and Clifton
Alderson also ran. Julius Knight was the
“GOING UP." AT
SYDNEY MAJESTY'S.
Madge Elliott and Cyril Ritchard in the in-
dispensable dance of musical-comedy.
Cassio to Bentley’s Othello, and he was the
heavy Bashleigh Osbaldistone in “Bob Boy.”
Indeed, villains seem to have been his long
suit in those far-off times, for he juggled
Lazare in "A Celebrated Case,” and bid his
Marcus Superfluous legs in the conventional
dress pants of Gilbert Featherstone, a "Curse
you, die!” scoundrel, in good old "Lost in
London.”
"M.P.A.” : Took the final curtain at Mel-
bourne last Thursday, Frank Cullenane, a
solid mummer of the accepted Irish school.
His last appearances were made with Denis
Ivelioe as the priest in "Mother Machree,”
at Melbourne Princess’s, and then lie was a
very sick man indeed. I first met Cullenane
as assistant stage-manager to Harry Parker
when George Musgrove returned to Aus-
tralia with "Pretty Peggy” and “Old Heidel-
berg.” In "Peggy” lie played Colly Cibber,
and in "Heidelberg” the innkeeper, but most
of the time he was holding the book in the
prompt entrance. It was he who dug up
Clarence Weber and his star pupils for the
circus scene in the “Pretty Peggy” produc-
tion, Adams schooling the bunch for the
spectacular end of their feats. But it was
in Irish drama with his own show and later
with Allan Doone that he was best known
to the public. He not only worked on the
production, but was instrumental in pulling
the right element under the Doone banner
outside the theatre. His old Irish charac-
ters were painstaking studies, and on Irish
stage lore he had probably no equal here-
abouts. His wife is Ethel Grist, a colleen
with Doone and other players. She is mum-
ming with Ivelioe and his players in West-
ralia.
NO RESPITE.
A Monday morning portrait of a too opti-
mistic Sydney citizen, who had hoped
that the musicians' strike might inter-
fere with the street players.
“Pollio”: I’ve often wondered whether
Offenbach (w,ho died before the opera was
staged) really meant his doll, in "Tales of
Hoffmann,” to be dressed as a staring,
short-socked French six-year-old. It’s the
tradition now, no doubt, and Eileen Castles
does her best with it: but "The Tales” isn’t
a pantomime or a revue —it's intended for a
rather serious (in one act distinctly tragic)
light opera. The magic spectacles are a
serious property, intended to delude Hoffmann
into accepting the doll as a human being;
but no conceivable magic would do that for
the traditional doll, with her thigh-high frock
and stiff-jointed limb action. Why doesn't
some reasonable producer put her into the
normal dress of the period, with stiff, full-
hngth outstanding frock to conceal or excuse
the stiff action? Then one might accept
Hoffmann in the first Tale as a possible vic-
tim of magic (as he is in the other two)l
At present he is merely an uninteresting
damidiot. To my mind, the producer who
puts that doll into socks may be expected to
attire Viola as a pantomime boy and Lady
Macbeth as a Salome dancer.
"We have never seen the Australian native-
bear, but we have seen Miss Kellerman.”— -
San Francisco Argonaut.
“S.S.”: The Grand Op. Co. no doubt de-
serves all that is coming to it. but its enun-
ciation is abominable. At a performance of
“Hoffmann” (“Oofman,” judging by the
packed house) I gave particular attention
to this department, being anxious to discover
whether Hoffmann’s manifest uneasiness in
the prologue arose out of his inability to pay
the rent or from his natural resentment to-
wards prohibition. I failed to discover any
more than dumb show might have conveyed,
although I was seated neaV the operatives.
Two men sang their words cleanly (they had
the smallest parts in the play). The others
were inarticulate, and Hoffmann himself
might as well have been singing in Choctaw.
A well-trained singer in grand op. should be
as lucid as a great orator. If he fails to
tell his tale, why pitch a yarn at all?
“Stargazer” : John Amadio, the Melbourne
flautist, is another admirable Australian who
purposes giving the Americans the benefit
of his extraordinary talent. Some day we
may find it expedient to impose a prohibi-
tive export duty on young genius in order to
hold our own. Amadio is probably the finest
instrumentalist the Commonwealth has pro-
duced. and, although his native place has ex-
tended him generous appreciation, the best
Australia can do for her sons of genius is so
little compared with what "abroad” is will-
ing to do, that in present circumstances we
must despair of retaining our best indefi-
nitely. In New York a festive multi-million-
aire will give a fine musician more for en-
tertaining his guests during an evening than
the top-notch performer can earn here in a
month. So Amadio is off to get in touch
with the prodigal sons of U.S.A.
"Plus Tax”: The war has practically
forced the melodrama-producer to employ the
returned soldier. Time was when undis-
guisable supers cheered the good master in
smocks in Act I, wore lured dress-suits
as gents in Act 11, supported the U. Jack
as soldiers in Act 111 and appeared in
their going-home clothes as jurymen in Act
IV. Nowadays you can still have any sort
of supe. for the gent, the juryman and the
squire-cheerer, but there’s only one sort of
supe. for the soldier job, and that’s the
soldier himself. Stage finances don't permit
of specialisation in this branch of the art,
and, as supers are paid by the night, Bill-
jim stands a splendid chance of monopolising
all available supernumerary billets.
“Biobox”: Beaumont Smith has been
working a movie camera in the rainless
area, and on December 10 will take cellu-
loid evidence of a dry Australia to a dryer
America. He is not out to boost the drought,
but a bit of it will get into his "Man from
Snowy Biver” film to demonstrate the hard
luck of a poor but honest squatter of whom
Banjo Paterson has never heard. Smith
has decided to make the close-up scenes in
America, with an Australian cast if it is
available, and join up with the long-distance
stuff actually taken in Australia. He car-
ries in his cabin-trunks safnples of Austra-
lian saddles, bridles, stockwhips, etc., dozens
of photographs and full plans and specifica-
tions of our home-grown bush-pubs which the
Yank perdooeers will have to imitate. He
reckons his scheme will get him the best
possible in action, acting and atmosphere.
"Vaudeville Vet.”: Ilecent mention of Jack
Kearns recalls the old Vic. Hall. Melbourne,
where he made his earliest appearances as an
acrobatic comedian in the year of Carbine’s
Cup. and where also Will Whitburn had his
stage beginnings. The Vic. was then run by
Joe Billins. a South Yarra publican, who
every pay-day drew his entire fortune from
the bank in gold and piled the treasury table
feet high with sovereigns. Behind this lie
sat, immaculately dressed and scented, and
paid the artists as they filed in. When the
last actor had been appeased the balance of
the gold went in a cab to the bank. Billins
put on some fine vaudeville first-parts. His
“Brigands,” staged by one of Emerson’s min-
strels. cost £3OO and was never excelled by
Bicltards.
"Bally Who” : Australian touring circuses
are pretty well in a family grip. PeTry’s,
Sole’s and Eroni’s—all doing nicely, thank
you—are of the same stock, but travelling
under different canvas. The original Perry
started in the sawdust with his Jubilee Cir-
cus, and his brother 1 who died recently at
Armidale, N.S.W.) left his pub to follow
the same profession. The original Mrs. Perry
was a remarkable personality. Every morn-
ing she emerged from the dressing tent,
sniffed the air, and decided whether the
canvas should go up or not. No meteoro-
logist could compete with her nose. Some
of the old lady’s superstitions have stuck,
and to this day in the Eroni, Sole and
Perry circuses it is fatal to introduce a
carpet-slipper or a twisted whip-handle.
“Ox”: Beynolds Denniston, late of Aus-
tralia, is to be the pioneer of what he terms
high-grade amusements in Mesopotamia.
He says he will take “Nightie Night” to
Bagdad after if has gone to bed successively
at Honolulu. Canton, Yokohama, Tientsin,
Pekin, Shanghai, Hong Kong. Calcutta and
Bombay, and he has formed himself into
Beynolds Denniston, Ltd., to do it. After
“Nightie Night” he will take other shows
of equal respectability. His first is
being played at present in New York, and
the management has announced that no
other city in the States will see it till the
present company can find time to tour, so
Denniston threatens to put up a record by
producing a N.Y. success in Bagdad before
Chicago sees it.
“Biobox” : It is a little surprising to read
(B. 20/11/T9) that “The Breaking of the
Drought” is to be filmed. Bland Holt, scorn-
ing lucre, has consistently refused to allow
any management to play any of the melo-
dramas which made his name. The bit of
sentiment vent deeper in the case of “The
Breaking of lh.> Drought,” which he was in-
strumental in localising, for the play came
from over the ocean. Maurice Tournier, the
English movie producer, has done two of
Holt’s successes. “Sporting Life” and "The
White Heather,” and probably it is the suc-
cess of these rather than of the Sentimental
Bloke which has inspired a local firm to
screen the sensations of the Drought.
“Petramos” : When I was young and in-
nocent I accepted a commission to write a
panto, for a metropolitan manager. I joked
my best and arranged my dialogue to suit a
special cast. The script was returned with
instructions to double the size of the second
boy’s part and cut out the skinny dame and
alter the lines to
suit a squat one.
I did it. Further
instructions came
fiom h.q. to elimi-
nate the vizier who
had taken to drink
and put in a pan-
tomime cow. Cow
inserted. T h e
manager chuckled
over the new script.
"Fine!” he said.
“There’s only a de-
tail or so to fix.
We’ve chucked out
the two comic
policemen, so you
can bring back the
vizier to si>eak
most of their lines
and move the
palace back a
couple of scenes
and make it a front
cloth. Then you
can run in a few
words to lead up to
a rip ping n e w
speci a 11 y I’ve
booked; and —I
nea r 1 y forgot—
Tottie Freeze is
outski, so we’ll give
the second boy’s
part to a chorus-
girl without any
lines, and we’re
twisting the cow to
"Nothing but the
Truth." at Sydney
Criterion.
Emma Temple as the
jealous Mrs. Ralston.
:i horse, so that milk-pail scene won’t do.
When the panto, was produced the clever
critics said that the artists did their utmost
with the poor material the author had pro-
vided.
“C. Ockney”: London talk (B. 13/11/’l9)
is wrong—the Frederick Boss who is playing
in the "Great Day’’ at Drury-lane was not
"the first 'Message from Mars’ hero that
Australia saw.” In fact, this Iloss has never
visited Australia. The mummer Bill Ilaw-
trey brought to play in "The Message” was
another Boss. Herbert, much older than
Frederick, and n<e relation.
"Fax” : The older generations that remem-
ber "Herr” Bandmann and Louise Beaudet
of yore may be interested to hear that Band-
mann’s widow still lives in England. She
was Millie Palmer, a’charming young actress,
when she became infatuated (mesmerised, it
was said at the time) with the violent Ger-
man who came and starred with a foreign
accent. Nowadays the old lady calls herself
Mfrs. Bandman-Palmer. dropping the final
tell-tale n from her married name. I remember
her as a white-faced, sad-looking lady as
far back as the 'seventies, playing in “Proof.”
a drama adapted from the French. After
that she toured with a "Mary Queen of
Scots” play, and was so famous a lady-
Hamlet that she claims to have handled the
skull of Yorick no fewer than 557 times in
20 years.
"Orb”: Mention by “Silyertail” (B
13/11/’l9) of George Bignold’s production
of "Faust” in the early ’nineties, with IJate
Bishop as Marguerite, reminds me of a re-
vival only a few years later (April 13, ’95).
when Kate Bishop, grown too plump for the
lead, was the Dame Martha. It was a not-
able cast. The other ladies were Agnes
Knights, Minna Phillips, Inez Bolie, Agnes
Bristow. Bel Forrester, Lily Bochfort (Mrs.
Bock Phillips, mother of Alma Phillips).
Bose Delavere, Stella Tracey and Marie
Lohr. The men were Bignold, Stirling
Whyte. Scot Inglis, Harry Plimmer. Cyril
Keightley. Harold Carr, Harry Hodson.
Frank Harcourt, J. W. Ilazlitt, Clifford
Barker. B. D’Orsay Ogden (much para-
graphed of late), Frank Foster, Cecil Cal-
vert, George Marlow and me.
“Ike Pagliacci” : The slow development of
Australian drama was due to the color-
printer rather than to the writer. Forty
years ago Walter Cooper was putting bits
of Sydney into his home-made melodramas,
and he wasn’t the first to think about it. In
"Hazard” he picked on the foot of Margaret-
street for the scene of his primest murder,
and he not only localised his comedy but
used it for political propaganda. But in
tho'Se days the lithos were a good half of
the battle, and a playwright who couldn’t
hand over printing with his script was
usually hunted back to his garret.
"Belle Canto”: A Bulletin par recently
asserted that there were no Japs in Aus-
tralian orchestras. Maoriland has appa-
rently found one, however, for Miss O liana
Mitsu provides all musical accompaniments
for a vaudeville touring co. headed by the
Togos whom Mclntosh brought to Aus-
tralia.
THE BALLETS THAT AVE USED SEE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I grieved about the ballets shown.
I said the dancers of to-day
Ungainly were, and overgrown.
Inanimate, and quite distrait.
I told them of the girls of yore
Who danced for us in days before—
How spirited, how blithe they were,
What grace and graciousness were there!
I said the ballet-girls these nights
Had lost the note of gaiety ;
Machines they were in purple tights,
And had no interest for me.
“When I was young the coryphee
Was like a daffodil; to-day
S e’s like a cabbage. So the calls
1 now ignore of pit and stalls.
“The ballet-girl we used to know
Was like a bird upon the wing;
Poised as a lily on her toe,
She breathed the gusto that was Spring.
To-day she's dull.” “Ah, cut it there!"
Exclaimed the angry manager:
“We’ve just as good girls in the game—
Why, damme, man, they arc the same!”
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


The Goodyear Winged Foot
Means Much to You
was known in the
mythology as the
Messenger of the Gods. The
capacity to discharge such duties
connotes an absolute efficiency.
Mercury needed to be swift, en-
during and certain. Therefore
his Winged Foot is most appro-
priately symbolic of the Goodyear
Tyre.
Mercury was the tutelary deity —what is
usually called the patron saint, or the
guardian angel—of travellers. Again, how
appropriate is the Winged Foot! The
Goodyear Tyre takes care of the traveller.
It speeds him on his way. It opposes a
rugged strength and endurance to all the
menacing obstacles that seek to impede
the progress of the car that it carries.
Goodyear Tyres are unfailing. Throughout the
long and arduous miles —thousands and thousands
of miles —it discharges its duty with wonderful fidel-
ity and sureness. Goodyear construction reaches
a milestone far along the road of human progress
that leads to perfection.
And, be it well remembered that all this efficiency,
this speed, this sturdiness-the maximum of tyre-
service-is secured economically. Owing to the
tremendous mileage yielded by every Goodyear
Tyre, the ultimate low cost-per-mile is the final
gratifying feature that rounds off the Goodyear
reputation.
Every Goodyear Tyre is Goodyear-grade —an
exacting standard that only the best can reach.
Buy your Goodyear Tyres,
Heavy Tourist Tubes and
Tyre Saver Accessories from
the Goodyear Service Station.
There is one in your locality.
M er , cury ,
x A classical
Branches and Agencies
In all Principal Cities.
Service Stations and
Dealers Everywhere.
1
Vh
m
m
A\
9
/
9
E
M
%
V
&
sr
&
mm
f-.TM'V
m


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH.KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
foie Agents : RESCHS, LiniTED, Redlern, Sydney.
I
FWIS&WMITTY
MELBOURNE & SYDNEY.
m
MX
Lv
NI9
1
llllilM
!ilm*!llll
TfieJPrink' that pleases
yoor oa/a/e
yoor pa/a/e
brim vs
FAMOUS
BARLEY HALT
PATbn
' DiVh'lled in \
Australia,under \
stride si" Government
supervision
m
SYDNEY
SPORTING
NOTIONS
DON'T TINKER
LET
MICK SIMMONS
DO THE JOB
PROPERLY
The inter-State tennis tournament in Mel-
bourne on Saturday left Victoria well ahead of
N. S. Wales, while South Oss hardly had a voice
in the discussion. Victoria won mainly through the
good work of the champions, Brookes and Patter-
son, who, however, failed to discover really for-
midable form. Nevertheless they smote down all
the opposition in the doubles, Brookes’s perfect,
placing scoring as often as Patterson’s fiery service;
but the latter hasn’t attained its full chloroform
effects and won fewer love games than were con-
fidently expected. Moreover, Patterson is occasionally
wavy in his judgment, and, since all his service
shots are in a hurry, he sometimes double-faults at
critical moments. Of the Cornstalks, Anderson and
Peach were the most disturbing to the lic.’s early
hopes of victory. After downing Hawkes and Wer-
theim, 2 sets to 1, and providing a quiet funeral for
Fitchett and Rainey by 2 sets straight, they sur-
rendered to Brookes and Patterson by about the
same margin, though by beautiful tennis they car-
ried the second set to 7-—5 before they finally struck
their colors. Young J. O. Anderson was the sur-
prise party of the occasion. With no noticeable
invalids in his gallery of strokes, and owning a
service that sings of trouble every foot of the voyage,
he left a blot on Norman Brookes’s record: 3—6,
6—o, 6—3, in Anderson’s favor, thus providing the
first instance of a love-set defeat for Norman since
1896. Patterson, whom Anderson had beaten as a
schoolboy in 1912, this time gave his rival an
opiate (6 —1, B—6) in case his win over Brookes
should keep him awake. Hawkes, a Vic. colt making
his first appearance, was also prominent in the line-
up for bouquets. He walloped the veteran H. Rice
and R. Neil of New South with a vigor that promises
his appearance in the crossheads of the press in the
future.
* * * *
The Diggers v. Rest of N. S. Wales match
was drawn. It is long odds on such an ending in
any first-class game which is, limited to two days.
The wicket at the S.C.G. had imbibed too much,
and Diamond, in winning the- toss, went half-way
to winning the watch. Noble took Bogle in, but
had to leave before him. Bogie’s score of 15 was
very creditable in the circumstances. The Rest failed—
with the exception of K. B. Docker, who went at
the bowling to the tune of 64. Sundries was the
next best performer, with 31. Wells, who should
have a great future, got 27, pluckily, when runs
were most wanted. The state of the pitch particu-
larly suited Kelleway’s bowling (5 for 55).
: The Diggers opened with Tozer and Rupe Min-
nett, the latter falling cheaply to Norman for 3.
With Tozer and Macartney together the crowd had
a chance to study two diametrically opposite styles—
Macartney (138) all energy and push, and Tozer
(89)' the essence of steadiness. For the remainder
the classiest display was given by Skipper Diamond
(32 n. 0.). He declared at 400 for six. Mailey
(4 for 88) bowled best and fielded worst.
Going in again N. S. Wales quickly dispelled any
hope the Diggers had of a win. Bogle (40) and
Docker C 74 n. 0.) were top-scorers. Kelleway bagged
two of the three wickets that fell and was the most
successful bowler In the match.
The match emphasises the inter-State claims of
K. B. Docker, Tozer and Bogle. But it does not
throw any fresh light on the bowling possibilities of
Trenerrv and Norman when opposed to classy bats-
men. Macartney stands out as the greatest bat in
Australia ; but he is ‘no Trumper, and never will be.
A kind of sublimated Syd Gregory—that is nearer
the mark.
The A.I.F. XI which has been sweeping
up South Africa is expected home about the middle
of January. This week an arrangement was made
between the Australian Board of Control and tile
XI to play week-end matches in Adelaide, Mel-
bourne, Sydney and (perhaps) Brisbane.
* * * *
Melbourne seemed happiest in Melbourne
District cricket on Saturday. They whacked up 245
for five against Carlton, leaving Armstrong (58)
and Lemann (52) in charge when stumps were
drawn. Northcote showed appreciation of a bats-
man’s wicket by making 309 against South (Ilart-
kopf 76, Bailey 67 n.o. and Carroll 50). South,
two for 23. The feature of ’Wood v. Uni. was the
bowling of Shugg. After he had been pour.dcd for
48 without obtaining a victim, he got the range
and finished up with seven for 80. ’Wood realised
only 182, and the Intellectuals stand adjourned
with none for 42. Essendon v. North are showing
signals of distress. To their little 152 (Schade, six
for 63) North responded gladly with four for 107.
East’s miserable 167 against ’Roy (now one for 31)
was appropriately the work of a young man named
Cannon (six for 83). Richmond scored 252 against
St. Kilda, but the batting was not brilliant enough
to blind you, though Allan made a chanceless stolid
64. Saints stand part-heard with none for 19.
Wesley won the Melbourne Public
Schools cricket championship. They had to meet
Melbourne Grammar and got home with five wickets
to spare. Grammar made 219 and 195, the highest
scorer being Cuming, who pasted up 95 in the
second hit. Wesley’s first total of 326 received 89
from Scott and 78 from Newham. For Grammar
Smith took live for 106; for Wesley, McLoughlin
six for 76. This is Wesley’s first cricket premier-
ship since 1910.
The captains of the cricket clubs : n Adel-
aide ha\ e named 24 players to practise for the first
inter-,State match. Gehrs, Quisi and Travers will
make the final selection, though the first eight practi-
cally pick themselves—Steele and VVhitty (if able
to spare the time), Gehrs, Vic. Richardson, Arthur
Richardson, Townsend, Rundell, and the' new Port
batsman Pritchard. The others have to come from
Middleton, Jose, Willsmore, Bridgman, Andy Smith
(all these have had inter-State experience), Lucas (a
new Sturt bowler), Bartlett, L. V. Pellew, Hone,
Loveridge, Moroney and Williams; with a wicket-
keeper—Gordon Campbell, Selth, Inkster or Schultz.
# * * »
Prince Alfred College (S.A.) has in this
year’s cricket XI a Giffen, nephew of George, also
the first of the third generation of Hills. That
family record started with John Hill, who made the
first century scored on the Adelaide Oval. Of his
large family Clem comes about the middle; Arthur,
Peter, Harry, Frank, Roy and “Solly” were all
inter-State form; Roy got as far as being picked
12th man in a test match. Alan Hill, son of Peter,
now shows good form in his school XI. He is not,
however, the first of John Hill’s grandsons to do so;
a daughter’s son has appeared there already as Hill-
Smith.
* * * *
Cadwallador (C.E.G.S.) is the find in
this season’s G.P.S. cricket in N. S. Wales. Follow-
ing on his recent 121 v. St. Ignatius, he last Satur-
day smote 126 v. Scots College, and took seven
wickets for 15 runs.
* * * •
Clem Davison, 6f Broken" Hill, playing for
the local St. Peters, got 307 out of 417 for two
Wickets against a team of returned soldiers. The
bowling of the Gatekeepers was as deadly as their
batting, the Diggers crashing for 45 and 98.
•» • « »
Looks as though Clarke and Robinson’s
success with Lucknow will close their long
connection with racing in Australia—for the
present, anyhow. Sam Bloomfield, the old
sport who watches over their interests, is
anxious to be relieved of the responsibility, and
Lucknow, the one and only horse carrying their
triumphant colors this season, will probably be
auctioned shortly. After all, there’s a good deal
more of gambling than sporting in Clarke and
Robinson’s racing of English thoroughbreds in this
country. All they know about the welfare of their
representatives is learned by letters and cables. All
their betting is done by cable instruction, and their
ownership of horses that local resident owners would
be immensely proud of has no color of sentiment in
it. For instance, as soon as King Offa, winner of
the Caulfield Cup, cracked up, he was sold. Even
a temporary loss of form has been reason enough for
getting rid” of such a good paying servant as, say, St.
Spasa, who won a Sydney Metropolitan for them —he
was somebody else’s horse when he won the Adelaide
Cup and finished third in the big handicap at Flem-
ington. Still,, Clarke and Robinson liave served their
turn. They have been good friends to punters by
sending good horses and running them for all they
were worth as soon as they were acclimatised ; and
thanks to the alert care of trainer Bradfield, the
nags have collectively paid their way.
. * ■ * * *
“Nemo’’: A quaint race meeting occurs
on the Thursday of each week at Ipswich (Q.). The
races are held at night an an electrically-lighted
track a trifle under two furlongs in circumference.
The competitors range in size from 11 hands to 14.2,
the latter jumping from scratch while the smaller
ponies are allowed 10 yards start for every inch
they are under 14.2. In addition the competitors are
handicapped with weight, the imposts ranging from
74 to 11 stone. The programme usually consists of
three races over half a mile, two trots over a mile
and a pony race over six furlongs. The owners of
these racing rats are mostly cookies from the sur-
rounding districts. If one of the front markers is
fancied there is no chamee of his being left at the
post, as the spectators line up at the rails with hand-
fuls of gravel, and when the starter discharges his
pistol the punters bombard their prad with their
quarried confetti and generally succeed in inducing
him to lose no time in getting off the mark. •
Trained his last horse, Dave Virtue, of
Mowbray (Tas.). It is about 30 years since E. J.
Parker, the T.T.C. handicapper, picked out Virtue,
then a cross-country rider, as a smart young mar.
to take charge of his stables at Park Nook. Later
on he became private trainer for the late Rod
O’Connor, and afterwards trained for Thos. Gatenby,
A. F. A. Connor, Lieut. Jack Gatenby and others.
The horses he handled won every Tasma. ian race
worth winning except the Hobart Cup. Across the
Straits he won the V.R.C. Lawn Handicap with Mon-
tague, V.R.C. Grand National Hurdle with Bribery,
and V.R.C. Newmarket and Bourke Handicap with
Desire.
* * * •
“Silas Snell’’: I enter Prid’s colt Nimble
as the best last in Australian turf records, 'lhis
most Lehind-hand animal was owrned by the publican
at Beetree, and was a fine, golden chestnut, wiio took
a polish like old brass and looked the perfect
little gentleman in all circumstances. It was said
at Beetree that he was an illegitimate son of Fire-
iron, the great red stallion at Doodialloc, and he
certainly took after his dad as a flier and a s aver.
It was because of his pride in Nimble that Prid
inaugurated the Beetree Steeple, a handicap sweep-
stake, with £2O added money, the latter sum in
Prid’s own good gold. But Prid got small credit for
generosity in the district, it being recognised that ;ie
could always depend upon getting his own back
while Nimbie was fit and well. The Beetree Steeple-
chase was out to the Dial Gap and back, over and
through everything; and in 1908 there were seven
entries, the largest field since the inauguration of
this great sporting event, and keener interest than
usual was added by the appearance < r Keerc.. ,’s
Oyster, a big, loping grey, as a competitor. There
were those who tooK so kindly to the oyster taut
for the first time Prid was able to get even
money on his horse, ard he found Keernan rover
reluctant to accommodate him at that figure. “You
don t know the Oyster,” said Ke. man. “But I do
know Nimble,” Prid replied, and his money attested
his faith. Prid had a new rider, a combo. Nigger
Riverhill, who had offered himself as rouseabout at
the pub, and proved so dandy a horseman that Prid
gladly gave him his mount for the Beetree Steeple.
The seven started, and Nimble got away nicely as
usual, ai d rounded Dogleg, lvii g a snusr third. Ihe
other riders deposed later that Prid’s chestnut was
going at a leisurely pace well in the tail when the
Gap was reached, and 15 minutes later the amazed
spectators saw Oyster shoot up against the skyline
on Trouble Hill, and come striding home, well in
advance of everythi g. Joel s l> m,-.> <) lowed. a> <1
Moran’s dark bay, Calamity, was third. They romped
in in that order, nothing near enough to Oyster to
bite his tail. Prid was filled with disgust and amaze-
ment. llis disgust and amazement luted t\vo years,
in which time he did not see Nimble come home,
though neighbors attested that he often went ai d sat
on the judge’s box waiting for Nimble to finish.
At the expiration of the second year when the fifth
Beetree Steeple had just been finished Prid came to
a definite conclusion at last. “I know what it is,”
said he; “that infernal rascal of a Nigger Riverhill
has stole me horse.” It did look like it.
• » * •
Said that a tremendous effort will be made
to revive bike-racing during the next few months.
A Contingent of American stars with two or three
Australians are alleged to be coming to assist in
the resurrection. The collection will not include
the now elderly and waning phenomenon Kramer,
but there will be a couple who have beaten him,
notably the Australian R. Spears, who recently cap-
tured at Amsterdam,
with a Dutch partner,
Van Nek, the 24-
hours’ Cycle Teams
Pace, covering 453
miles. Grenda and
Corry, two other
rapid Australians, are
also due, and the
Yanks will embrace
Hans and Ernest
Ohrt and the ama-
teur champion of
the States, Charles
Osterritter. Among
the strangers, how-
ever, Australian
bikists will be most
interested in watch-
ing the Canadian
crack, W. Spencer,
who has beaten our
own Spears, and on
one or two occasions
left the wonderful
Kramer a mere dot
on the horizon.
D. G. SOUTAR
(N.S.W.).
“Bombo”: Some of these country sports
are worth attending. At Jerrara (N.S.W.) a week
or two back there were 314 entries for the 100yds.
handicap. In the final the two judges had a dispute,
one declaring a dead heat, while the other swore
that the visiting competitor had won by eight
inches. However, they agreed to run it off and the
outsider romped home with six yards to spare.
,** * *
“Chuck’’ Wiggins, the Yankee heavy-
weight, beat Fred Kay, who was boxing at a few
pounds over the welter limit, at Sydney Stadium
on Saturday night. The match was a. poor one,
assuming Wiggins was any class at all (and he is),
and it was made even poorer by the fact that Kay
had signed an undertaking not to box on the
retreat. He might almost as well have agreed to
fight with one hand tied behind his back. The
heavier and better-conditioned man overwhelmed him,
and, though Kay was still plugging gamely on, in
the 11th round the referee decided his case was
hopeless.
* * * *
Sam Langford, who knocked out one of
the numerous Johnson family last week, says he is
34 ; but it is safer to put him down as 10 years older
at least. His devastating punch has always stood to
him. With it he has stopped champions of all
weights, from Joe Gans to Sam McVea. MeVea
remarked in 1912 in reference to Langford’s punch
that there was no man living who could stand up
if it once landed. He supported his theory a few
weeks later by taking the knock from his fellow-
tribesman in person.
“Billy T.”: Trip-Hammer Henderson was
explaining why he had given up the game just when
he seemed to be fighting to the front. “Ah, there
wus too much dirt in the gime!” said Trip. “It
took too much out of a bloke. Gorstruth, the things
a feller was expe:ted to do! It ain’t that a man
ain’t alwiz allowed to fight to his limit. That’s
expected—it's part iv the bizness. It helps to shake
up interest fer a chap to lose once in a way. But
there’s other things. When I ‘was put up ag’in
that right-’anded lad Gopher, it was all fixed up I
was to go down to him. Well, I cud have ate him,
.but ez the understandin’ was that we was on’y
manoeuvrin’ to get three good gates instead of one,
1 was agreeable. We met. P’raps you saw the
scrap. Gawd knows I put up ez good a schlanter ez
any man livin’, but it was the sickener. On’y the
night afore I learned that this Gopher lad was the
bloke what kidded away my missus.”
Fred Henleu, who died at Stan more
(Sydney) last week, was the champion Rugby Union
wing-forward who once took on the task of stop-
ping “off-side” Mackenzie on Sydney Cricket
Ground. He succeeded so well that to save a riot
“Jumbo” Fraser (a political aspirant nowadays,
by the way) was put in his place.
» * * *
Albert Mcßeatli’s native town (Cessnock.
N.S.W.) has provided the cash to enable him (1) to
train for his contests with the coming army of
Yank and ex-Australian cyclists; and (2) to later
visit America and try for the world’s championship.
He is easily the greatest pro. cyclist in Australia to-
day.
* * * *
Cabled that Lieut.-Colonel Kings cote, who
was to have captained the English Davis Cup team,
may not be able to come, after all, “owing to
military duties.” If so, it about ruins the prospect
of a serious contest. Even with Kingscote and
Major Parke (another non-starter) playing, it would
have been fairly long odds against an English win.
# * * *
Attempts by motor-cycle on the long and
trying Adelaide-to-Melbourne run have been many
of late. Half a dozen failed to get through at all.
Wagener had the good luck to get there, but the
bad luck to be just outside the one-day limit which
had a trophy awaiting it. The distance is uncertain,
as there is no settled road all the way, but it is
well under COO miles, and Murray Aunger fied over
it in a motor-car in 14 hours 54 minutes. The jar-
ring eyele-ride is a very different proposition.
Wagoner cleared the sand of the Coorong, and did
splendidly to Geelong. There, when practically
home, he lost his way in the dark, and the best
he could make of it was 24 hours 22 minutes. This
record lasted only a day or two; Korner, meeting
with no mishaps, cut it right down to 19 hours 35
minutes.
* * * *
“The Oldest Inhabitant’’; Melbourne’s
first Champion race, whose diamond jubilee happened
this year, came about in this fashion. Colonel Rob-
bins, who was in Australia buying horses for the
Indian Government, suggested a champion race foi
all the colonies. The suggestion was adopted and'
stewards were appointed—Dalmahoy Campbell and
Richard Goldsbrough, of Victoria; Sydney 0. Burl,
who had the horse bazaar in Pitt-street, Sydney, that
was later known as George Kiss’s; William Filgate,
who came from a fine old Irish sporting family, of
South Aus.; R. Adams, of Maoriland, and James
Lord, from Tasmania. The stewards agreed to a
meeting on Oct. 1, 1859, on Flemington course, at
which a champion race should be the attraction. The
added money was £2500. Midway in September the
newspapers annoumed that people were already en-
gaging rooms, and that Melbourne would be full ol
visitors on the eventful day, which was proclaimed
a general holiday. Visitors came from all parts of
Australia and from Tasmania and Maoriland. Addi-
tions had been made to the stands, which were by
the riverside at Flemington, to accommodate 1500
persons. Grandstand tickets were £2; ladies, 20s.
There were 18 starters, representative of all the-
colonies that had sent stewards. Redwood, of M.L..
brother of the Archbishop, had three —Strop, Io and
Miss Rowe. Three brothers Cutts —Sydney men—
had each a mount. There was one horse historic
among the 18 —The Barber, which had escaped from:
the wreck of the Admella (Aug. 6, 1859), off Cape-
Northumberland, and was found near Mount Gambler..
He was an outsider, but had sentimental baekers- at
60 to one. Strop was originally the favorite; Flying
Buck (15 to one), owned by W. C. Yuille awi bred
by Hector Norman Simpson, of Charlotte Plains, was
the only three-year-old in the race. The boy Harry
Yeend, who in manhood trained for “Big Bill” Clarke,
had the mount. The race was a gift to him. He
raced home 10 lengths ahead of Zoe, owned by John
Tait and ridden by Jas. Ashworth. But if Zoe and
Strop had chased Flying Buck instead of watching-
each other, the result might have been different. At
any rate, in 1860, at Sydney, and 1861, at Ipswich
(Q.), John Tait won with Zoe, Ashworth up. The
Buck did very little after his big win, which put
£lO,OOO in Yuille’s pocket, and he ended his days in
the shafts of a hansom cab. Mr. Yuille, who had
arrived in Tasmania in 1836 and gone to Port Phillip
in the following year, took part in the first Victorian
race meeting—held on the flat at Batman’s Hill.
* * * *
Eddie Durnan’s challenge to Felton to come
and row him at Toronto sounds like an empty vaunt.
Felton is pledged first to row Barry, whose stake
has now been found —chiefly by London Daily Mail.
His next big card should also be in Australia, with
Paddon. Duman was licked a dozen years ago by
Towns, and there is no reason to look on him as a
coming champion now.
* * * *
Syd Beck (Sydney) swam 75yds. in
40 3-6 sec. on Saturday, which is only l-ssec. behind
Alec Wickham’s Australian record put up in Feb-
ruary, 1906. Duke Ivahanamoku, the Hawaiian,
holds the world’s figures (39 4-ssec. for one turn).
Beck, who left the “100” behind under the minute
the previous week-end, should be a fair-sized snag
in the path of Yankee Norman Ross.
Aeroplanes are piling up in Australia now.
One concern alone, the Aircraft and Engineering Co.,
has 20 brand new aerobuses landed and more on the
water ; and there are several other concerns in the
business. So far, apparently, only the assembling of
parts is done in Australia; but there are works
already for doing practically every kind of repair.
MOSES—PHILANTHROPIST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
j One Sydney pend ller cleared a thousand on Derby
l)ay, won three hundred on Cup Day, and kept about
the safety mark by winning thirty on Oaks Day. “If
I j were to exercise eommonsense,” he said, “I would
gjive a miss in baulk to-day and take a rest, but
irty clients will expect me to complete the job.”
The bookie and the punter met, and each held out
* his hand,
For they were in a bar —the racecourse patron’s
No Man’s Land.
“I only won a thousand pounds last week,” the
- lookie said.
liis tones were pessimistic and he sadly shook his
> head.
“1 lost about as much as that,” the chronic punter
smiled.
“I must admit that, at the time, 1 felt a little wild.”
“But,” interrupted Moses, “look at how they hit me
up
Their next attempt. 1 only won three hundred on
the Cup!”
“I lost a monkey,” said the punter. Moses raised his
voice.
“I betted on the Oaks,” he cried, “1 had no other
choice.”
“It cost me fifty,” said the mug; “not bad you will
agree.”
“Thirty I won,” the bookie moaned. “It damn
near ruined me.”
"Why not stop betting?” urged the mug. “God
knows you’ve done your bit!”
“No,” said the book ; “stern duty calls and I must
rise to it.
•England expects’—you know the tag. My patrons
need my aid.
While cash (their cash) remains I’ll bet —alone, yet
unafraid.”
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


KEYS TO HEALTH AND STRENGTH!
My Scientific Exercises are keys to Hea’ih and Strength.
Your health and strength depend upon exercise. Exercise
is the judicious movement of the organs of the body, so
that they will MOT become flabby through want of use. When
an organ becomes flabby it cannot carry out its functions
in a natural way. It goes from bad to worse. Eventually
it is a source of never-ending annoyance—then chronic
ill-health.
Judicious exercise is the key of Health. It cuts out
monotony, accomplishes permanent results quickly, takes
up Very little time —every movement goes right to the spot.
MY POSTAL COURSE OF HEALTH
AND STRENGTH EXERCISES
will make you fit and keep you strong and healthy.
The exercises you receive will be most suited to your
individual needs just as the particulars you furnish tell me
you require.
Write your name and address across this advertisement
and send it to me with three stamps, and I will send you
a copy of my interesting booklet, “Health and Strength
from Self-Cultui’e.”
Those desiring to avail themselves of personal instruction at
my Institute are invited to call and have a chat with me
about their needs, when 1 shall be happy to show them over
my modern and perfectly-appointed establishment.
REG. L. csnony iBAKER,
Australia’s Leading
Physical Cu.ture
Institute,
155 Municipal Buildings, Oxford St. (Or. Crown St.), Sydney.
U/IKEF I ELD
Rpf'f.
MOTOR OIL
For Hot Weather.
This famous British Motor
Oil goes farthest and elimi-
nates carbon deposits.
Obtainable from all garages.
G.C. Wakefieldg Co. Ltd.
5 Moore Street, SYDNEY.
JTHE GREAT —x
ATIAKTK^FLfcHT
r,.
A
wm
r SHELL
T BENZINE
WAS USED
in the Yickers-Vimy Bombing
Aeroplane llown by Capt.
Aleock end Lieut. A. XV.
Brown.
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOR
MINING. MILLING, etc.
INCLUDING
STEAfI ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL BE POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO
THE SECRETARY,
Box 229 G.P.0.,
MELBOURNF.
THE GENERAL MANAGER,
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
THE SECRETARY
Box 220 G.P.0.,
SYDNhY.
S-4
m
4/1
Vw*
Sfe2l&
a«. oner or later that unproductive waste land will have to be
cleared. Those gums will have to give place to the golden grain.
There are many ways of getting rid of them, but the quickest,
surest, and most economical is the “Vallo” way.
WEED, SCRUB, AND
TREE KILLER
is the modern means of destroy-
ing all manner of noxious
vegetation—forest giants, scrub,
blackberries, boxthorn hedge,
briars, ferns, docks, sorrel, couch,
thistles, and weeds on garden
walks. The manner in which it
does this will impress you.
Manufactured by
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.
Melbourne
Sydney
Brisbane
m
VAI
LO
BRAND
.WEED, SCRUB
TREE KILLE 8
[pqisonJ
A Well-matured Tobacco at L/ast!
“NOSE. GAY”
MANUFACTURED BY T. C. WILLIAMS, VIRGINIA, U.S.A.
Most Pipe-smoking Troubles come from Using Tobacco that is Too New.
NOSEGAY does not bite the tongue!
NOSEGAY does not affect the nerves!
NOSEGAY burns down to the last particle in the pipe!
10/8 per lb. 5 /4 P er ilb. 2/8 per ilb.
Postage—N.S.W.: 6d. for the first lb. and 3d. every additional lb.
Other States: Bd. for the first lb. and 6d. every additional lb.
SAMPLE TINS 1/3, Post Paid.
A. A. MARKS, 376 George St., Sydney,
Cigar and Macro Importer. BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE CITY.
&
I
Economise Your Health as will as your Gas
Economise your health as well as your gas-bill by installing a
FLETCHEB-KUSSELL Gas-cooker. By its use extremes of term
perature in the kitchen are obviated and a drain on your energy in
the form of colds and chills removed. This cooker is a gas saver, and
is solidly and scientifically constructed. It lasts a lifetime. It’s
just the stove for the average man’s home.
English, Australian and American Cookers.
We have a wide selection of all above makes. All have points of
excellence. The American stoves are raised on legs as high as a
table to prevent stooping. They are all built to endure and are all
moderately priced.
Gascolite Cleans Greasy Stoves.
When your cooker has become hard to clean through ■n
burnt grease adhering to the sides, one application j
of GASCOLITE will remove it and leave the stove j
clean and sanitary. j
2/3
per tin.
See us also for Gas and Electric Grillers and Smoothing Irons.
Electric Toasters, Coffee Boilers and Kettles. Catalogues Free.
JOHN DANRS h SON Pty. Ltd.
32 4 Pitt Street, Sydney; and at Melbourne.


Protect Your Food
In the Interests
of Health
NOW that Summer has commenced in real earnest and the sultry days
are upon us, health demands the strictest measures of hygiene in the
adequate protection of foodstuffs from the übiquitous fly. Necessities
for the careful housewife are :
MILK JUG COVERS
With Beads, Price llid.
With Shells,. Price 1/6
Box 497,
G.P.O.
FARMER'S, SYDNEY
We Pay
Carriage
Sydney's Premier
Private Hotel.
Cremorne,
On the Harbor Front.
Delightful S minutes’ Ferry Trip
from Circular Quay.
Electric Light and Lifts and all
conveniences usually associated with
First-class Hotels.
Illustrated booklet forwarded 'on
application
am
sime;
are modelled perfectly
and heighten the beauty
of the hand and arm The
beauty of their appearance
lasts because of the puritv and
strength of the "Vanity Fair”
Silk from which they are made.
Vanity Fair” Silk Gloves
cost no more than otherkinds,
but they are sold with a
guarantee of satisfactory
wear or exchange, free of
charge.
Wear “Vanity Fair’*
Siik Gloves
for real
Economy.
Scld every-
where,
V.F.I.
©
MILLINERY
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warner's
Rust-Proof
Corsets
The not-too-numerous admirers of ex-Guud
Mayor Cabena have decided to keep his
memory green (although anything with a
tinge of green in it is calculated to reduce
him to a state of garrulous frenzy) by hav-
ing him preserved in oils and hung in the
municipal Parthenon. Ever since the City
Council refused to allow Cabena to wear the
rabbit-skins for a second term some few
burghers have been complaining that the
Scarlet Woman engineered his defeat, and
those present at the meeting called to con-
sider “suitable means of recognising his ex-
cellent work” made no secret that their main
object was to annoy the Vatican.
On Friday afternoon ox-Mayoress Cabena
was entertained at tea and strawberries in
Menzies’ lounge by the wives of 14 city
councillors. The Weed on dame, represent-
ing herself and her sister hostesses, poured
compliments over the guest-of-honor before
presenting a set of silver vases. In her
thanksgiving speech Mrs. Cabena could not
refrain from expressing gratification at the
presence of certain ladies whom she had not
suspected of feeling so pleasantly towards
her. Which suggests that a mayoress cannot
count her civic pals by the support she gets
on button days. By the way, a couple of
recent ex-Gaudessos were not amongst the
14 hostesses.
The Manifolds’ At Home at State Parlia-
ment House on December ] will be one of
the chief events of the social year. About
a thousand invitations have gone out, and
everything is to be done in a style that
would satisfy even George Jenkins if be
were alive.
Jf/h Helen’s opening speech at the Child
y elf are Exhibition completely outclassed
that of the mere male, who in this instance
was president Hanks. All the Child Welfare
enthusiasts were on the platform, together
with Acting-Mayoress Stein, who held the
vice-regal handbag and looked Parisian in a
black satin cape. The Talbot Epileptic
Colony s exhibit consisted mainly of artistic
calendars executed by a girl of 14, with Billy
Hughes in every possible attitude. He
really should see them.
Very cordial was the welcome-home that
St. Arnaud gave Peter Mcßride, the Agent-
General, when lie went there at the end of
last week. Watt and Lawson each took a
day on, busy as they are, to share in the
welcome. At the banquet Lawson announced
that Peter was to hold on to his job in
London till August, 1921. By that time,
probably, McPherson will have ceased to be
a factor in State politics, and there may be
another extension.
A. G. Sainsbur.v, who was Victoria’s head
John Hop until Stewart took charge, was
stricken with apoplexy last week, and for a
time it looked as if Melbourne would be
poorer by a well-liked, unassuming citizen,
fortunately Sailisbury side-stepped the
Reaper and left for Mornington, where he
is still alive and fishing.
There was trouble between a St. Kilda
doctor s spouse and a nurse at Flemington
on Oaks Day, and as a result the nurse has
issued summonses alleging insulting words
and assault. Counsel lias been briefed by
both ladies, and interesting revelations are
earnestly prayed for.
A youthful and vpll-dollared widow lately
back from Blighty has been amusing her
mends by two-stepping in a skirt shaped like
a bag with a hole in each corner for her feet
to go through. On the tootsies were black
shoes, which, having been lightly silvered
over, were asserting themselves through the
tlun veneer. They were held on the feet
by a pair of purple elastic garters.
f red Kero use and his wife- —charming
Lssie I errin—are returning home by the
Morea. Fred fought in the Boer War, and
helped this time as a British Artillery major.
Died this week at St. Luke Private Hos-
pital, Col. J. B. Laing, formerly financial
member of the Military Board and director
of naval and military accounts.. Doctor-son
Major J. K. C. Laing is on the staff of
the Caulfield Hospital.
Major Alan Newton, who took a fellow-
ship of the Royal College of Surgeons
(Eng.) in his stride while busy with hospi-
tal work in Blighty, is on his way back to
Melbourne. He’s a son of H. H. Newton,
Clerk of Parliaments, and grandson of a
P.M.G. who was in the Nicholson Ministry
in 1800.
Freda Sternberg eoo-ees from America: —
Carmen Harris (in days- of yore she answered to
the name of Pinschof) i.s singing in New York, but
her name on the programme is now something quite
unpronounceable.
Harold Colonna (in the old Marshall Hall days
he was Hal Cohen) is booked to sing tenor roles
in French operas at the Montreal Opera House this
winter.
Managing-director Cox, of Gordon and Gotch, is in
U S.A., absorbing all the latest ideas and seeing
what he can do to help along the relationship be-
■ tween Canadians and .Australians. Presently he
crosses the Atlantic to find out (if he can) what is
really happening in London and Paris.
The Prince of Wales smile would bring in
hundreds of dollars if it could be syndicated
for the pictures. At least that is the verdict now
that he has left Canada. That smile got every
woman it lit on, and all the grey heads said
“Just like his grandfather!” He is really going
to Australia next year, according to the most inside
information.
An energetic woman orator, Mrs. Wallace,
made. hay while the Billy Hughes-Mnxwell
meeting was raging at Prahran. The local
Town . Hall was jambed, and Maxwell had
booked up the City Hall for the overflow.
But the overflow extended all across the
square and flooded Chapel-street with people.
The Town Hall was echoing with loud
crashes of broken windows and a monot-
onous sound of counting o.ut. Reports flew
round that Ilnghcs was speaking only to
the reporters—who are paid to listen to all
sorts of noises. So the prompt Mrs. Wallace,
whose husband has just become an M.L.A.,
mounted sonic kerosene boxes and utilised
the overflow for an opposition meeting. The
intense lady referred to “that little chocolate
Digger in there.’’ “He!” she yelled. “7ic a
friend of the people! Why, he has to have
patrols of mounted police to protect him
from his people!” The crowd “Yah”-ed in
sympathy.
Every year at circus time Wirth Bros,
give a party to the children. It has been
growing in size, and last week 6000, no less,
rolled up excitedly to the invitation. It was
a joyous affair, streams of youngsters rush-
ing and dragging their more leisurely parents
to Olympia.
The G.-G. seemed as happy as any child of
the crowd, lie arrived in pale-grey party
clothes and a broad, beaming smile. Lady
Helen was gay with peacock-green feathers
floating from her hat and a shot-silk sum-
mer coat. Aide Kilby tried to keep up his
look of official boredom, but ended with a real
boyish smile. The orchestra of the lions
(basso well advanced) in the foyer greeted
the Government House party royally. Mrs.
Sellheim looked neat in dark blue with a
touch of gold on her hat. Mrs. Russell, in
cool grey, and Mrs. Tivey, in black and white,
were in the welcoming party. They had
distributed 6000 bfigs of cakes and sweets,
and established the children comfortably in
the amphitheatre. Mrs. Wirth presented
Lady Helen with some sweet-scented pink
roses and Mrs. Sellheim with a dark-red rose
bouquet. The clown put in special work
for the youngsters, and there was lemonade
at half-time and a distribution of toys to
finish the wonderful day.
Tbis is a - charm-
ingly natural por-
trait of the wife of
Monash, the big man
of the A.1.F., who
is returning to home
and Melbourne in
December with her
General. Birdwood
travels with them.
Her war-work in
Australia before she
went to join her
husband was partly
in connection with
the Purple Cross,
which looked after
the horse s, an d
partly in connection
with the Unipn of
Soldi e r s’ Wives.
England, an illness necessitated a
severe operation. Then there was a long
convalescence. Yet she was able to help
considerably in looking after the comfort of
wounded Diggers waiting for repatriation.
Adelaide looks out the window
We've had an orgy of highbrow concerts. One
evening there were two, one of which, at the Con-
servation urn, included an informal farewell to Mr.
Reimann. • At a Glee Club show Daisy Kennedy
fiddled, and was almost deafened with applause; and
at her own farewell matinee she and Topsie Doenau
were waist-deep in flowers. They said their good-
byes at the Grand Central Hotel.
Two engagements—(l) Poppie Tolley, only
daughter of A. E. Tolley, to Albyn, son of the late
John Rankine, of Dunalbyir; and (2) the J. W.
Englishes’ daughter Marie to Capt. Pat Auld, M.C.,
son of the George Anlds.
The Governor got back from Melbourne on Satur-
day, with the hindquarters of the vice-regal ear-
riage afire. It was an imposing entrance, and seemed
to promise great tilings; but he was soon back in
the old rut making humdrum speeches.
The hills districts have been rattling the teacups
since an alleged captain who represented himself as
a person of means and importance was arrested on a
charge of having stolen £45 worth of jewellery from
Mrs. Caley Smith.
The members of the local branch of the Society
of St. George farewelled Owen Smyth on Saturday
evening, and backed up their good wishes with a
cheque for £176.
An exhibition of girls’ handicraft, opened by Mrs.
Nutter Thomas, drew a big feminine crowd to the
Y.W.C.A. buildings. The exhibits included every-
thing, from practical demonstrations of cooking,
millinery, dressmaking and mothercraft to needle-
work, photography and leather work.
At a meeting at Government House on Friday it
was decided to make an appeal for the French lied
Cross on December 19. A big general committee
"as appointed and the Ilackett dame. i,s in charge of
the small executive. That 'much accomplished the
social squadron motored, on to the mayoral garden-
party at Victoria Park—-the last entertainment of
the kind the Glovers will give. It was a warm,
cloudy day, and ninons, voiles and crepe de chines
were almost the only wear, with ostrich feathers
on every bird. Mrs. Glover was in white georgette,
with touches of floral ninon and blue, and her
daughter was in blue ninon, veiling pink. Mrs.
llackctt-Mouldcn was in white, with a charming
frock and a wide-brimmed, feathered hat. The most
thrilling guests were Hurler and Kauper, who arrived
per aeroplane and landed on the flat, afterwards
stunting cheerfully over the crowd on the lawns.
The Governor-General has presented a casket of
Australian blackwood to the Public Library,' “as a
memento of nty many pleasant visits to South Aus-
tralian forests.’’
The University has made Donald Kerr a Doctor of
Laws. He is the third to win the distinction in
this State. Good going for a man of 26, with two
years’ active service to his credit.
While a deputation—of doctors mostly-—was tell-
ing the Government the other day that the Adelaide
Hospital is so out of date as to be a disgrace and a
danger, Dr. Wilson woke us up with the remark
that Adelaide is “the only city of .its size in the
world” without a women’s hospital. - .There is a
big Martin Bequest to draw oil; but it is at present
“too well invested to disturb.” Still, if that “good
investment” is going to be responsible for an extra
day’s delay it will disgrace us. Imagine a man
pleading that he was on to such a g - ood financial
tiling that he couldn’t disturb it even to save his
wife’s life 1
Melbourne Grammar chapel was packed
with chiffonery and khaki to see Elfrida
Eld rid, in white satin and silver embroidery
and her grandmother’s real-lace veil, marry
Lieut. Rupert Forster. The groom saw ser-
vice on Gallipoli with the Eight Horse be-
fore transferring into the Artillery. In this
latest engagement he was supported by his
brother, Gunner Hugh Forster. The three
bridesmaids, Madeline Eldrid, Mona
McCrae and Gwendoline Rowlins, walked
demurely in pale blue chiffon with black net
hats, and carried pink carnation bouquets.
Afterwards Mr. and Mrs. Boyd McLeod
held a health-drinking ceremony at Bernie,
Malvern.
\ iolette Kerr, one of the sweetest girls
in Toorak, was married on November 10 at
St. Stanislaus’ Church. Yiolette is the
daughter of the Montgomery Kerrs, of Dale-
rosen. ‘ The lucky man is Captain. H. C.
Schrader, just back from the war. lie is
a son of violinist Schrader, beloved of musi-
cal Melbourne from the very early days.
The silver-haired musician was one' of the
wedding party. Bride was dressed in misty
white, with an enveloping tulle veil and
some wonderful lace about her gown. Two
small children in baby blue, Isolde Buesst
and the St. Ivilda-road Meins’ baby, carried
the train. Captain Schrader’s sister, in
deeper blue, was bridesmaid. Mrs. Kerr
wore magnificent wedding finery. The Wes-
ton Petts arrived in a neighborly way and
helped things along. There was an elaborate
champagne breakfast set for a large party
at the Toorak home, and the terraces and
lawns were gaily decorated. The bride
dived into dark navy travelling clothes for
the motoring away. The pair are honey-
mooning in N. S. Wales.
Mrs. Russell Jackson (Melbourne knew
her as Kitty Boyes before she married a
popular sea-dog and started on a trip round
the world) cables from London that unto
her a daughter has been given, and all’s right
with the universe.
Mrs. Con Beck Daly, of Camberwell, who
used to be Edith Harry, the clever pianist
with violinist Mary Law, is song-writing
these days, and already Allans have one in
print. It is “Bells Across the Moor.’ -
and breathes the atmosphere of Blighty. The
music is melodious, and carries originality
in its jumps from major to minor key. Irma
Caron is introducing the song to Adelaide
while warbling with Dennis’s “Bloke” at the
Theatre Royal.
Spurred on by Father F. O’Keefe; 5.. T.,
himself an old boy, the students of Xavier’s
at Kew have improved their singing of
school-songs wonderfully. They trebled and
trolled in front of a crowd of 800 or so in
the college hall the other night, and netted,
besides encores, about £BO for a memorial
chapel to old boys who fell in the war.
Nora Delaney, a young Australian who
studied with Carreno and returned to Mel-
bourne as war broke out, has just given
her first recital in the Assembly llall. 81ie
has devoted herself to Bed Cross work here-
tofore. The recital was a most artistic
affair. Nora is a very small girl with a
great quantity of gold hair, large blue eyes
and wonderful arms, which were bare to the
shoulders. She was draped in white net over
filmy laee. The mahogany roof of the con-
cert grand carried a large flat basket of
red camellias, and the color harmony was
interesting. Nora played a five-bracket of
Chopin, some McDowell, a pound of De-
bussy and two pints of Paderewski. Minnie
Waugh, in black and silver, sang some Char-
pentier songs, Norman Bradshaw tenored.
and accompanist Fox shook his curly hair.
The impresario was Clifton Boanas, com-
poser and pianist. There was a line house
and, when the last encore had been given,
some of the beautifully-groomed audience
from the front stalls carried the leading lady
off in a flower-decked car to a supper party
at the Oriental.
lionise Blotters and her harp were engaged
in the Festival Choir work last week.
.Dorothy Murdoch, farewelled with great
success at the Town Hull this month, has
found the ear of the critical Melba with hei
swelling contralto
voice. Shortly the
young artist will go
to her patron in
London, and, under
the guidance of that
influential genius,
will join tiie rush
for the fat concert
fees. Dorothy is a
pure blonde with a
fetching exterior, but
somehow her best
portrait omits to
mention her radiant
personality. This pic-
ture by Lafayette is
the latest study of
the clever girl, who,
by the way, was an
arriving pianist when
she was snatched from the keyboard by the
discerning Melba and told to give her Voice
a chance. It was her contralto that won
Dorothy the Melba Scholarship at the
filbert-street Conservatorium; but he.-
lingering- of the ivories brought her another
scholarship, and led Professor Laver to
promise her a future. It shows her quality
that she began to loom early in two
branches of music. Rarely are the best so
nchiy endowed. ,
~ ( - ) “ e the G.-G.’s exhibits in the Arts and
Lratts show at Federal Government House
is a box made from a redgurn log which was
part of a corduroy road across a creek in
Little Coll ins-street in the dear old da vs
before I ederation.
Collectors will be bidding in January for
trie household gods of the Rupert Atkinsons.
-Ihe bronzes in the Toorak house are some-
thing to gloat over, and poet Rupert also
has a fine collection of Norman Lindsav
drawings and water-colors. And there are
fi agments of jade that make the eyes of
antique-lovers glint.
Gordon Carter, late sec. of the Vie. State
Service Federation, has a son, Geoffrey, who
is a middy on the battleship Renown which
carried young Wales to America and has
since provided him with bed and breakfast
whenever he has been able to escape the riot
ot American hospitality. Recently there was
a «: revcaver ’P iac^ce competition, open to the
officers and crew, numbering over 3200, and
Geoffrey Carter proved the deadliest marks-
man. beating the skipper by four points. The
third prize went to young Geoffrey’s pal.
Midshipman Hunt, who is a son of Atlee
Hunt, permanent Sec. of the External
Affairs. Atlee, by the way, is back in Mel-
bourne from his tour of the Huns’ late
possessions in the Pacific. With liis col-
leagues, Judge Murray and Lucas, of. B.l\’s,
he is now churning out a report on what
should be done with the tropical trophies.
Squatter Ison, of Burraja station, in N.
S. Wales, has been showering leaves from
his cheque-book on artist McCann. McCann,
who belongs to the new Meldrum school, has
been rummaging around far-coastal corners
of ictoria for subjects. He has painted
\N aratah Bay and its surroundings in all
their wildness.
.A.T.C. handicapper Lang loves to trail
a herring with the Melbourne Hunt Club.
The fact that, he is a doctor with 30 years’
general practice has meant much to club
members during the season. Many nasty
croppers happened, particularly in the earlier
months, and in every ease I)r. Lang was
on the spot to push the sufferer’s jaw back
into place or arrange the concussed one in
the medieally-correct position.


Born 1820
—still going strong
Till
a
m
w
I a
%
HJ t MflJl
I
irr
U
Tv
m
ri
V
V 2
O
V
c
/A-
/
!?£., >'v>
to';
25
)V
©
;
X
>J
s
\
\
rf
Sf
7AP\
<*
a
&
L^.iu
.-*>./ \vri-';
Johnnie Walker (to facetiously cautious friend): “ Never look a gift horse in the
mouth/’
Host : “ Thank \ our lucky stars to get it—just as you would a bottle of ‘Johnnie
Walker.’”
JOHN WALKER & SONS, Ltd., Scotch Whisky Distillers, KILMARNOC K, Scotland.


Charles
BeidsieckS
Vintage 1906
QH
WE PLUS ULTRA
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
sg
X
En t e r—a New Era
Clothesmaking.
The time is now come when, by a
specialised knowledge of the figure
feminine and of the clothes-making
art, Shave's can make the most perfect-
fitting Gowns and Tailor Suits without
fittings. To those at a distance it is
a decided boon.
SHAVE,
Ladies’ Tailors,
Dressmakers,
Centreway,
Melbourne.
HOSIERY!
GLOVES!
UNDERWEAR!
“OUR” SPECIAL MILANESE SILK
GLOVES, double-tipped guaranteed, all colors.
. 4/9 pair.
Other qualities 5/6, 7/6 pair
“DOVE” HEAVY-WEIGHT PURE SILK
HOSE. every pair guaranteed ladder-proof. Sold
in shops 25/- pair. From us, in blac-k only—
-16/6 Pair
“OMI” ARTIFICIAL SILK ANKLE
HOSE, Australian made, noted for splendid dye
and good wear. In black,' white and brown—
-3/6 pair
“DOVE” AMERICAN COTTON SING-
LETS, very long and full size. Short sleeves.
4/11 value for 2/11 each
K4VSER >yLANESE HOSE, in Mastic,
Navv and White 16/11 pair
MAIL ORDERS SPECIALLY CATERED FOR.
SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
The Dove Hosiery Stores,
313 Collins St., Opp. Equitable Building, Melbourne
IT S NO TROUBLE NOW IF BOBBY TEARS HIS
CLOTHES I SIMPLY MEND THEM WITH
Mend-arTg&JC
THAT WONDERFUL NEW MATERIAL WHICH
MENDS WITHOUT STITCHES. IT'S SO NEAT.
SO EFFECTIVE AND SO SIMPLE TO USE. I DO
HIS REPAIRS IN A QUARTER THE TIME
Sample Outfit post free on
receipt of 1/4.
Sole Wholesale Distributors for New South
Wales and Queensland —
Bennett 8 Barkell Ltd.
Meagher Street, SYDNEY.
A WOMAN’S
LETTER
DAVEID
JONES
for
SMART
MILLINERY
In one of the rare rays of sunlight between
the flurries of rain last Thursday Jean Hay
Morton, eldest of the Philip Morton quiver-
ful, was allied to her D. 5.0., Robert Arthur
Little, only son of the Robert Littles of
Point Piper and York-street. Canon Beck
blessed the ring-giving, and St. John’s seated
300 guests and as much of the public as
ccmW squeeze in after the invited were seated.
A little irate this mass of womankind that
huddled to the building as the gusts of wind
and rain swept along; but when the
Morton ear drove up, with the bride as
plftjnly on view as if she were in Cinderella’s
glass coach, they forgot their anger in com-
menting upon her green-wreathed head and
in swapping views about the area of neck
aftd arm that ought to be exposed to the hard
afternoon light. It might have been a Sinn
Fein meeting, so insistent was the wedding
group on the wearing o’ the green. The
bride had the sorrowful little land’s color
in her hair, and it occurred at intervals about
her frofck, which was of soft white satin and,
like the song, sweet and low. Sisters Ruth
afid attractive little Rachel Joy were the
bridesmaids, each with green leaves in her
hair, Ruth wearing a di’ess a-foam with
cream lace, while small sister was all white
georgette. Mrs. Philip Morton walked up
the aide wrapped in the inky folds of a
black velvet cloak, with a large black hat;
and her sister, Mrs. Neil Crowley, was only
saved from being in deepest mourning by the
gallon or so of diamonds she wore. Mrs.
AJcc Hay cased herself, too, in a breastplate
of diamonds, and otherwise wore a Foulard
dress, large red dots all over. Miss Burde-
kift was coolness itself in lime shades. Mrs.
Sep Levy was a study in black and white,
and Wore the highest pair of heels at the
party. The Barton, Gould, McMillan, Burns,
H<ughes and Hordern titles got an airing.
Dr. and Mrs. Brady were there, she with
her hair snooded under a neat hat.
There were Markses; the Roy Forrests, she
demure in mole color; and Austens and
{fnoxes; and good-looking Mrs. Willie Col-
lins. Law ’n* order, medicine, trade and
9BHtH children, among them Daphne and
Diafra Daviuson, sat down to the wedding
feast spread in the dining-room of the Aus-
tralia.
Hundreds of wedding presents in silver
and crystal and delicate china, and the
pride of the display a gorgeous ostrich
feather and ivory fan.
The needs of the city have pressed another
old home into the service of the thousands,
so Trebartha, which opens on Roslyn-street,
Darlinghurst; has become St. Luke’s Private
Hospital, receiving its dedication at the
hands of Governor Davidson, in the teeth
of a cold wind that blew straight off Rush-
cotter’s Bay. St. Luke’s represents a special
appeal of the Anglicans. At the present
only 11 of Archgaiters Wright’s flock may be
ill at a time; but when the new and wonder-
fully equipped building rears its tall head
from the soothing green heart of the old
garden, 80 sicli may enter into possession.
Army-sister Wood is in charge, and she and
her staff hovered on the verandah from
which floods oi talk poured. Russell French,
holding his old-fashioned hard-hitter at the
angle approved by Scotch elders, had a word
to say in the matter of the £15,000 necessary
for the new building; but Mayor Richards,
with the Cup festivities still influencing his
mind to gaiety, dismissed these hard facts
with a thistledown puff of aldermanic wit.
The listeners, mostly well-froeked and pros-
perous womankind, looked happy at seeing
the venture under way, and clapped applause
when Mrs. Richards, through her City
Father, volunteered to furnish a room. Padre
Howard Lea and Canon Beck bestowed the
Church’s blessing, and then everybody drank
tea, balanced on folding-up chairs on the
lawn.
First and second fiddles, brasses, pianos,
operatic and concert stars all squeezed into
the lounge at Farmer’s to give Daisy Ken-
nedy a cheer-o on her return to her
homeland, which she left 11 years ago to
find how much cunning Europe could add to
her bow. All of old and young musical
Sydney was there. Winifred Burston, with 1
daisies in her hat, and Iris de Cairos Rego
sat together and listened while Verbrugghen
and Joe Bradley greeted the homecoraer.
Fiddlers Coad and Mowat Carter and Dag-
mar Thomson, who don’t do so badly them-
selves, gazed at the visitor with reflective
eyes; Philip Wilson, who lifts his tenor in
an revoir next month; Mrs. Wunderlich,
with the latest thing in lace veils that are
all of a piece with the hat; some Adelaide
, isitors very proud of their townswoman —
in short, all of Sydney whose hub is the
Conservatorium drank its morning coffee
between glances towards the table where
Daisy’s bright face gleamed over a bowl of
yellow flowers. When she at last stood up
she revealed herself tall and graceful, clad in
a clinging dress of emerald green cut square
at the throat; dangling nearly to her knees
several feet of amber necklet; her loose
black cloak thrown open, and on her hair
a black hat, moujik cap-like as to crown,
which, with the fluffed-out side-pieces of
hair, gave the bright-complexioned face
almost a Russian width across the cheek-
bones. The lady, by the way, is married
to Russian pianist Moiseiwitch, and there is
a young Lenin or Trotsky or Grand Duke
Nicholas —according to the cut of dad’s and
mum’s political jib—in the cradle.
llarley Hixson, who died on Sunday,
was a tall, spare man, vastly popular in a
small circle, though abhorring “society” in
the ordinary sense. His two sisters, Mrs.
Geoff, and Mrs. Jim Fairfax, are something
of the same way of thinking. He was a
keen yachting man in his younger days, and
as an officer in the N.S.W. Naval Brigade
went to help quell the Chinese Boxers
18 years ago.
The Sep Levys gave a dance at Hillside
last week at which practically all those who
had been at the Little-Morton wedding at-
tended, and a few over. One of the pret-
tiest girls present was a Laidley maiden,
whose grandfather had built the original Hill-
side in the long ago.
The lawyers extracted great fun from the
Bray divorce suit last week. Not so the
menaced “six” whose names have been
bandied about considerably in connection
with the case, and who, to the end, were un-
certain as to whether or no they would
achieve a free advt. in connection with the
affair. Mrs. Bray is a pretty little thing
with large blue eyes and pronounced dimples
—the ideal petitioner. Her husband is a
presentable-looking young man whose appear-
ance belies the lurid that were
made concerning his habits. Keith Bray,
his brother, is the same type; and their
sister, who was “Girlie” Bray before her
marriage, used to be one of the most smartly-
dressed young women about Sydney. AH
parties belong to the Winter Garden society
of the city.
This is Major Bean, brother to war-
correspondent Charley, and himself general
sec. of the Theosophical Society. An idealist
of the first water, he
lives in Surry Hills
so that he may not
grow too far away
from his poorer
brothers. This is the
very heart of as fine
“settlement” work
as there is in the
world. In a tall,
straight terrace-house
he lives and keeps a
watchful eye on a
meant lot of land
next door as a fine
spot for a rest-house
or a kitchen —with a
bit of it as a play-
ground for the kid-
dies. It’s a good
locality for child-
ren, with houses crushed to one another
and the Children’s Court holding up the
finger of correction in the background, so a
little bit of healthy fun in the foreground
might give the fatherly men in the court a
little less to do. Also here is Tom the
Chemist: and what more suitable than that
the “settlement” should be built around Tom
the Chemist, who has acted as adviser-in-
chief to the district in affairs of love, health
and law since he handed his first prescrip-
tion over the counter and spread a protect-
ing wing that is asked to stretch from the
matter of bailing out dad to the administer-
ing of an emetic when sister finds her love-
tangles added to the daily round more than
she can bear? The Entente Club is another
big scheme of Major Dr. Bean’s, and if you
haven’t already received a circular about
that the postman will deliver it to you be-
fore the end of the year.
A crowded Town Hall welcomed Daisy
Kennedy on Saturday night. The applause
started as the tall Australian girl, robed in
blue and carrying her 300-year-old fiddle,
threaded her way down stage through
Verbrugghen’s orchestra. Arrived at tHe
edge of the stage, the pretty star bowed deeply
in all directions. She bowed to the con-
ductor, to tne players, to the audience, right
and left, to the clock and to the gi'and organ.
Then she coolly gave a brief tuning exhibi-
tion to see if the old fiddle of 1637 was awake.
It. was, but during a later pause, when the
State Orchestra was earning overtime, she
put her ear down to the old Amati and
asked it how it was. It answered “All right”
■in various keys. Daisy’s two big jobs were
the Tschaikowsky Concerto and Saint-Saens*
“Rondo Capriccioso.” Both were brilliantly
played. And when the musical gymnastics
were over she charmed her listeners with
simpler things. She is to appear with the
State Orchestra again on Saturday, and there
simuld be a big roll-up to her recitals on
December 2 and 4.
This is Mrs. Mackay, Queen of the Free
Kindergartens. All
her life Mrs. Mac-
kay has been in-
tensely interested in
child-welfare and
for the last 12 years
she has been one of
Sydney’s most
active workers on
behalf of the kid-
dies. She is presi-
dent of the Little
Citizens’ Ivindergar-
ten at Bourke-
street, and vice-pre-
sident of the Golden
Grove, so you can
imagine just how
busy she is good-
fairying the mon-
ster Christmas tree
that bursts into bloom this year at the Town
Hall. Judith Fletcher’s camera caught the
lady on one of her few afternoons-off.
The F. G. Sargoods, off by the Osterley
for the honeymoon, gave a farewell on the
verandahs of the Rose Bay Golf Club. A
battalion of War Chesters and Comforters
were in force; and Mrs. Sargood, in navy
tailorings, shook hands with many an associ-
ate grown dear in the long war days. There
were about 200 guests all told, among whom,
of course, were Christians, the R. M.
Meareses, the Id. Y. Braddons, the Misses
Skinner, Miss Partridge and Mrs. Toohey.
But the most popular of all the wedding
parties was the day at Clifton Gardens given
to the workers in the firm’s warehouses —
luncheon and everything provided.
Scots’ College seemed less dour on Satur-
day afternoon for the skirl of the pipes in
its grounds and the small girls who stepped
around a gaily ribboned maypole to polka
time kept by the clapping of teachers’
hands; for the most skilled piper confessed
his inability to trip out the 1-2-3 time. If
it was a lament, now, they were wanting—
However, the small girls in the lacy frocks
and pretty hair-ribbons got their effects and
received loud applause from groups of
mothers and fathers and big soldier brothers.
The Anderson Stuart dame, looking like an
illustration from a Morris poem, opened the
fete, which goes. to swell the funds for
Home Missions and Soldier Settlements, and
was rewarded with an armful of Dorothy
Perkins handed to her by Joan Edwards and
Ralph Mansfield —Joan’s daddy was killed
at the war before the attractive little lady
saw the light. The usual fancy stalls and
tea-rooms helped to fill the till.
The white flag with its crimson emblem
of mercy floated strikingly in the breeze
against green tree and grass on Saturday
morning, when the Junior Red Crossers,
Daphne and Diana Davidson a’mong them,
held their first annual meeting on the lawns
outside Government House. Over 200 of
them, nearly all little girls, in white dresses
with nurse’s head-dress, some pinned on in
the correct manner, others a little aslant,
some (these mostly on cropped heads) at
quite a rakish anglq. Here and there a
tussore-suited small boy claimed membership,
one sleek, black-headed mite admitting that
he was just five —then adding the rider
“turned.” Mrs. Mackinnon, Hanbury Davies
and ,T. O. Fairfax had much that was kindly
and helpful to say to the kiddies, but it
was left to Lady Davidson to make the
hit of the morning, when at the end of the
meeting she asked in her clear, crisp :
“Well, children, what about an ice?” (or
words to that effect). Then 200 children's
smiles irradiated, and you should have heard
the three cheers with which the meeting
turned to Government House.
There’s a returned soldier who has repa-
triated himself very securely. He keeps a
little suburban sweet shop, and in the in-
tervals of answering the bell makes wooden
toy-animals. In every bag of sweets
he puts a little wooden giraffe or lion or
tiger. When a purchaser has 40, the circus
is brought back to the shop, put to the tally,
and the owner is given a Noah’s Ark wherein
to pen his treasures. The returned soldier
has captured the commerce of the neighbor-
hood.
Brisbane’s social horizon :
The Montoro, which steamed in from Singapore this
week, had on board several Bananaland nurses who
have been on duty in India. Among them was Sister
Constance Frost, who will return to India after she
has gathered up a trousseau. The lucky man is
Captain Farrar, R.F.A.
Died on Nov. 17, Rev. J. M. Bailey, father of
politicians P. M. and J. G. Bailey. Mrs. H. A.
Longman, whose husband is chief of the Queensland
Museum, is a daughter.
H. E. Barlow, of Beaudesert, only son of late
perpetual-Minister A. 11. Barlow, was married last
week to Edith Holmes, third daughter of Mrs. T. S.
Holmes.
We are to have Girl Guides, Lady Goold-Adams
was the prime mover in the matter, and Miss Bedford
(who spent a year or two in Serbia, driving motor-
ambulances) is an enthusiastic seconder.
Innumerable teas and dinners were given in honor
of Jean Ridgeway, who was married to Cecil Paul,
of the Malay Federated States. The wedding took
place in St. Augustine’s Anglican Church, Hamilton.
Daphne was eight, so Lady Davidson gave
a launch-picnic at Balmoral on Friday.
Private Sec. Lamb was master of ceremonies.
Woman has pushed into another line.
Edith M. Loudon was head of the Perdriau
publicity department up to the ’flu visita-
tion; then, after her third entertainment of
the germ, she determined to take a spell
from a regular job. Now she s hung out a
sign in Bridge-street to say that she’s doing
publicity work for all the world that will
come to her.
Things move rapidly with Mrs. Herrick
Knowles. On a day not so long ago the
little lady gathered up her best kim and
toothbrush and dropped into St. Vincent’s.
In a day less than a week she was back in
her own bed at Itose Bay and. talking
about convalescing at the It. M. Pitt home
at Wentworth Falls. Mrs. Pitt, by the way,
is off to London in December.
Norman Campbell, writer of much good
Digger and other verse for The Bulletin,
and the “Norbell” of countless Poverty Point
pars, has just been made secretary of the
Balmain and District Hospital.
The Blinded Soldiers Tea Co. wants the
shop at 50 Pitt-street to be always as
crowded as it was at the opening party.
Digger Coates, who started out for himself
as tea-merchant some time ago, is really the
foundation-stone on which this co. is
building success. Trade grew with the
Digger until it threatened to submerge lnm,
so the little co. of blind soldiers was formed.
They will go into the canvassing
orders under the guidance of \ .A. s. And
tea will be packed and forwarded to any part
of N. S. AVales where a railway or a coach
runs. . , ,
The Bush Book Club is getting ready for
a ball next Easter —not an ordinary ball,
fancy or plain, but a book ball, and sec-
retary Beulah Bolton is glowing with
enthusiasm over the costumes from Slmks-
peare and William Morris and the earlv
Italian poets that will move across the Towa
Hall floor. This will be the first public
appeal the Club has made for funds, and
considering what the parcels of books meant
to Outback wives and mothers during the
war, it should meet with a warm response.
Anyway, the affair is starred to success with
such capable workers as Mrs. Arthur Allen,
Mrs. Gordon Wesche and the Willie Collins
lady to push it along, and Dame Margaret
as President.
Philip Wilson gives His* recital of all-
British songs on December 1). This is in
the nature of a farewell, for Philip is off
to England to visit a sick mother. Eileen
Shettle lifts her contralto on the 2nd, and
that’s unfortunate, for Daisy Kennedy
fiddles in the Town Hall on the same night.
“Dad” Smith, who fell overboard while
spending last week-end on the Oenone and
was drowned, was the most popular manager
the Hotel Australia had ever known up
to the time of his retirement nine months
ago. He had a genius for remembering
names and faces. Kings have this gift; a
regal whisperer supplies them with the
necessary facts about persons of importance.
“Dad” needed no such help. He knew every-
body and all about them; and no family
solicitor was more discreet in the way he
kept his information to himself. “Sid”
Smith, the artist, is a son, and a pretty
daughter died some years ago.
The Billy Beiths and their clever daughter
Toto are off to England again. The elder
girl, who is quite a genius as a dancer, has
been in London for some time.
The George’s Heights Hospital had a great
night last week when the Mosman Red Cross
and its own V.A.D.’s got going at their fancy-
dress ball. The Cullen lady, Mrs. Earp and
Mrs. Phipps sat in the judges’ box, and gave
the lady who went as Hiawatha and the gent,
who was J. Bull the prizes for the best-
corried-out costumes ; and the Campbell twins
as Query carried off another prize.
The Erskineville babies will lose a tried
friend when Miss J. Pyne goes on long leave,
and then retires from the Education service.
For 19 years the Erskineville kiddies have
known her care: and 31 years earlier she
was in charge of the Gulgong infants. Mar-
rickville has known her gentle care, too.
Truly she has been one of the mothers of a
nation.


I ” I
ESTB
1853
HARDY BROTHERS
JEWELLERS.
:td
GEM RINGS
Hardy Bros. Ltd. specialise in the
manufacture of Rings, all Rings
being fashioned by hand from
18ct. gold, pure platinum being
used for the Diamond Settings.
The Gems are carefully selected
by their own experts, and are of
the finest quality.
AN ILLUSTRATED CHRISTMAS
CATALOGUE SENT POST FREE
ON APPLICATION.
13 HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY.
298 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
116-118 QUEEN STREET,
BRISBANE.
Ruby an.u Diamond
Cluster Ring,
£5O 0 6
Sapphire and Dia-
mond Fancy Ring,
£22 6 0
All-Diamond Hoop
Ring,
£OO 0 0
Whole Pearl and
Diamond Cluster
Ring,
£lOO 0 0
Diamond Cluster
Ring,
£l5O 0 O
START PHOTOGRAPHY
with the BOX FORM ENSIGN
Daylight Loading for Roll Films.
[fc
Ihe outstanding feature of this grand little camera
is its extreme simplicity, a few minutes’ demonstra-
tion, which we will be pleased to give to any
purchaser, being all that is necessary in order to
enable the beginner—who may not have the slighted
knowledge of photography—to take photos.
There are no focussing troubles to contend with—
the focus is fixed—all you have to do is to hold the
camera towards the view or object to be photo-
graphed, see that it is shown in the view-finder, and
make the exposure.
It is made for me with Roll Films, which can be
loaded into the camera, or taken out of it, in broad
daylight, the body of the camera being of wood,
covered Black Leatherette, with Black Metal Fittings.
It has two view-finders —one for taking upright
pictures, the other for taking oblong, Rapid Achro-
matic Lens, and Kver-set Shutter for time and
instantaneous exposures. .Made in four sixes, asunder:
* No. 2*4A. 2MB. 2M- 3M.
Takes Photos. . . 2M x2M 3% x2H 4M x2M 4M x3M in.
Pnce 10/- 14/6 18/6 23/-
Fihns 7d. lOd. 1/1 1/6 per roll
Call and let us show you how easy it is to use— if you live out
of town, send for our illustrated catalogue. It will be posted free
to any address.
Jewellers, Dentists, Engravers
and Other Metal Workers can depend on having their
Ores, Residues, Sweepings and Waste Products
expeditiously, scientifically and economically treated, if they send them to
Harringtons’ Metallurgical 8 Assay Department
We are Specialists in Assaying, Ore Testing and Metallurgical Analysis.
We buy materials containing Gold, Silver or Platinum, and can supply those
metals and their alloys, in plate or wire.
Give us a ring and our traveller will call on you. ’Phone City 8690 (3 lines).
lIP
Photographic and Cinematographic Merchants ,
Metallurgists, Analysts and Assayers,
386 George Street, Sydney.
93-95 Queen Street, Brisbane.
144 Queen Street, Auckland.
266 Collins Street, Melbourne.
43 ltundle Street, Adelaide.
42 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Laboratories and Works: Booth and Trafalgar Streets, Annandale.
TARANTULLE
the quality cotton fabric for home-sewn lingerie and baby-wear
REGD,
All genuine Tarantulle is name-stamped
on the selvedge ‘Buy none without.
-r/n 1
"ff
r
X
r
> -C§2rr'
YY/HEN you buy Tarantulle you get a material
** that really will wash v It may cost you a few
pence extra, but those pence are your guarantee
against all the usual wash-tub disappointments.
Tarantulle is perfectly woven from the finest cotton
in the world, and free from filling It remains
always the same soft, fine, snowy, fascinating
material—a delight to sew and to wear. Invaluable
also for sweet little baby clothes.
40 inches wide, in Three Weights —
Standard 2/3, Fine 2/6, and Super-
fine 2/9 per yard. Name on selvedge .
OTHER TOOTAL GUARANTEED
FABRICS
Each carries Us ou'n name on selvedge.
lOERALCO \Rfgd ) The Cotton Wash Dress Fabric in
world wide use 27/28 inches wide. Self-white and
indelible colors. 2/6 ger yard.
NAMRlT—thei indelible Voile Double Width—4o inches
Vv Kite and indelible Colors, 3/6 per yard,
per yard' ,
TOOTAL PIQUE Double width. 43/44 inches wide.
Superior soft, and subtle specially strengthened
between ribs White and indelible c.lors 5/6 per
yard
TOOTAL SHIRTING for ladies' and children's wear
32 inches wide Woven indelible color stripes.
TOOTAL SHIRTS FOR MEN made of Tootal
Shirting
TOOTAL CLOTH The Guaranteed Velvet Fabric.
Plain and Cord. 27 inches wide
ALSO
PYRAMID HANDKERCHIEFS for MEN.
Correct self-white and exclusive color border
designs. Pyramid label on each. 1/44 each.
LISSUE HANDKERCHIEFS LWI for LADIES Ex
quisite self-white and indelible color border designs.
Lissuc label on each. I/- each
/r SHA^\
fTOOTAL]
vcy
TO BE HAD OF ALL STORES
TOOTAL BROADHURST LEE CO., LTD., MANCHESTER, ENGLAND
All Communications to: —
G.P.O. Box 1035, MELBOURNE
D.C. 195.


• •••••
%•
• .
@
COLLARS
are made for you in
your OWN country.
A preference for
Pelaco is your best
protection against
disappointment when
buying collars.
MADE in fIUJTRALIfI
“THERE’S MONEY IN THE PEN.”
tin
■>>
The above
is the title •
of our book-
let, which
tells about
the possibilities
of Drawing —both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
by HARRY J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
difference between
learning to COPY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains, in clear,
concise language
what the \\ eston
Course is, and why
Waeton tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
penny stamps
to-day for a
copy of this
booklet—
“THEßE’S
MONEY
IN
THE
PEN.’’
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
IS4. Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY.
WARATAH
FENCING
li'
W 9
*vi; i
Ur*
Will make a more durable fence at
smaller eoit. It never sags, and
stands all weathers successfully.
WARATAH WIRE is TOUGHER,
STRONGER, OHEAPER than imported
wires. Use AVaratah on all fences.
Every storekeeper can get “AVaratah.”
Each coil has the AVARATAH IDEN-
TIFICATION TAG attached.
FROM THE ORE TO THE FENCE
AUSTRALIAN.
Fencing Booklet Free. N 13.
AUSTRAL NAIL CO.PTY. Ltd.
Ferrars Street,
South Melbourne.
{.ArtAA \
:\ j
/
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
-
mm i
a
mmyrn**
m AuE
Perfection
pir* k: rubber.
L2^
r
s
Thicken Your Hair
With Cuticura
If you have dandruff vour hair will
become dry and thin. Cuticura Oint-
ment gently rubbed on spots of itch-
ing, scaling and dandruff and followed
by a hot shampoo of Cuticura Soap
will usually remove the worst cases.
Nothing better than Cuticura for all
skin and' scalp troubles. Ideal for
every-day toilet uses.
Soap to cleanse and Ointment to heal.
“R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W. Sold
by dealers throughout the world.
BEFORE AND
AFTER
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
An y Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, G.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
MARTIN’S PILLS
are sold by all chemists and stores. Ladies
recommend them. Be sure you get the
genuine with the signature:
MARTIN, Chemist, Southampton, England
Missing Friends.
Notice.— Mrs. Christina hill
(widow of the late Edward cveppel
Hill). Information required of the where-
abouts of Mrs. CHRISTINA HILL or her
Next of Kin. Messrs. Bearnrn nt and Son,
of fit! Gresham House, Old Broad Street,
London, E.C.2, have information to the
advantage of the above.
BARTLEM.— Aged mother wishes to
know whereabouts of her son, W. G.
BARTLEM. of Rockhampton. Q., who.was
last heard of in Sydney. J F. BARTLEM,
Havarest Farm, Yeppoon, via Rockhampton.
Business Notices.
'THE “GIPPSLAND SPINNER,” designed, proved
J- and made in Australia, beats all the linpoi Led
lures. Irresistible tor perch, trout, etc.
Makes angling a serene and lasting joy. Send
2/ P.N. or stamps, to “SPINNER,” »61 Dowling
Street, Moore Park, Sydney, N.S.W.
Three-Bladed Stock Knife —For skinning,
castrating and foot-rot.
NEST Brand, made by Southern and Richardson, Shef-
field, England, Post Free 1 & /o
HAMMER Brand, lii'de by New York Knif e
Post Free IU/o
CATTLE KNIFE (3 blades), spear-point blade > cas-
trating and foot-rot, Post Free
Two-Bladed Pocket Knife, nest Brand, a
popular Sheffield make, one blade thin skinning or
wide skinning, other ordinary style, Post Free 7/-
Useful Tobacco Knife, 2 blades, Post Flee 6/-
Manufacturers’ Selling Agency, 8 Spring St., Sydney
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
liuve permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Biles some
after suffering over 40 years, also a wonderful
Cure for Rheumatism.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/3 per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l/2/-. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
BOSTOCK’S—the Sign of a Good Shine
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
The present being times for the practise of economy, no better preservative of
leather can be recommended than
Bostock’s Shoe Dressings.
This well-known Shoe Polish possesses all the qualities for enhancing the wear of
footwear, keeping the leather soft, pliable and brilliant. Shoes regularly cleaned
with Bostock’s give added service.
Colors: Black, Brown, Dark Brov.n, Ox Blood and White. In Tins, Bottles and Tubes.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Bostock’s Violo Polishes, Ltd., Sydney
WMI
Choose your pipe as
you would choose your
constant company—
carefully.
You’ll get a friend
you’ll want to keep if
you make it a
the perfect pipe
In many popular shapes.
For sale everywhere.
London-made fron:
Seasoned Briar.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
A'o notice {except oj a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS.
liability is undertaken ro contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Murkah: Rather late ; Cocky ate the straw
top off his shed long ago. It’s a pretty filthy job
cutting it into chaff, but no worse than cutting
reserve stacks of fodder that a couple of mice-
plagues have been through; yet some of that stuff
has actually brought £lO per ton S.\ •
What do you do? Grow wool? Then no doubt you
are consistent and refuse to sell a pound tot cxpoit
in its raw state... .M.P.C.: That’s all right....
F. H. Young: Yes, everything we print is paid toi ,
likewise any suggestion for a drawing that »
used.... Blue B.: Maybe the faint marks on yom
mud-colored paper are words of wisdom. But we
pass them—we’re all nearly blind already ■■ ■ - A
Not quite, but the idea is good. .. . A.M.I ■: «°-•;• •
J.W.F.: No use to us....Bellerive: “O Hmns Mel-
come Home” would take a lot of beating:
“Salt the stew, Mollie,
And you, Mary, don t shirk,
Spread 'a cloth on the table,
Dear father’s in work.
The oil lamp wa,s trimmed,
The table was spread,
And a chair for O’Flinn
Was placed at the head ;
When home from he’s work
Rolled Patrick O’Flinn,
Who swayed like a kite
When he staggered in;
' “Maria,” he spluttered, “they
Gave me the sack,”
When down came the broom
With thuds on lie’s back.
O’Flinn in the morning
Felt seedy and sore,'
And vowed that he’d never
Get drunk any more.
Ex-A.H.S.: Crude stuff Iv.S.: “Bathos” won’t
do. The lines you condemn and thsse that are
“splendid” are too nearly equal in their quality
N.M.: “Veronoff Discovery” doesn’t strike us as of
much account.... D.F.W.: That “Road doesn t
“call” moil; than a garbage-tin Mac D. 8.: Too
rugged. But there is substance in it. . . .D.C.
(N.Q.) : Nice verse for a writer of 15, but hardly
worth print M.H.C.: Not nearly well enough
done C.H.C.: You say it is the “result of 10
minutes’ sentiment.” Next time try an hour’s honest
work. . . .D.McI.: Well enough done, but suicide unde.'
the circumstances is too difficult to believe.... .Key
note: Nothing there C.C.M.: Doesn’t sound honest.
.. . . J.M.S.: “The Gill” doesn’t get much humor. .. .
Strenuous: Dry bones. .. .Kemo: “Miranda Ann”
doesn’t move u5....E.H. (Lindfield) : They have to
“wend their way” back. .. .Pelagios: No use....
Rutra: Sample from “The Hasty Lover” : —-
They quarrelled at her gate
About her partner in a waltz;
And with his teeth all clinched
He hissed at her, ‘‘You’re false.”
He then hit her with a brick,
“Mv God!” she cried in vain;
He then knew that she was dead,
And he knew he was her swain.
But worse was still to follow —•
Her poor mother came on the scene ;
And gazing on the form she said,
“What a life her’s might have been.”
. ...A.D.N.: As far as possible we use only pen-
names.... J. Lawrence: Verse as lumpy as the prize
exhibit in a young women’s gymnasium.... A.8.C.:
“Love’s Tie” must go back. .. .5.0.8.: No use....
A. Digger: Dig, it’s shocking verse.... Maud R. L. :
Dreary screed. .. .C.M. A.: No luck.... W. MeK.: No;
well enough done. . . .H.C.K.: “First Release”
doesn’t make it clear what has happened... .J.A.
(Christchurch): No. .. .H.0.D.K.: Not up. .. .Queenie
* L.: Offer to contract for the supply of assorted
literature up to standard regretfully declined. Don’t
want to let the public see what a wilderness the
paper is by dropping an oasis into it. . . .Jacques V.:
Not struck on it. . . .W.H.8.: Yarn doesn’t score.
.. . .Umteenth: Verse hasn’t enough marrow in !t.
. ...D.F. (S.A.) : It hadn’t the touch. ... Alec W.:
“Poverty” is good ; “Treasure” a mere garble of an
old idea. . . .Prae Calvus: Lame and weak. .. .A.N.T.:
Doesn’t work. .. . W.W.W.: Poor stuff. . . .Bowral:
Why handicap yourself by writing in that scrawl?
As far as we can see the thing isn’t good enough.
. ...G.N. (Carling ford) : Put it in her album....
Zoe: They don’t get near. .. .Walnut: Too rugged in
metre and idea....J.S. (Wellington): Don’t like it.
.... Billy S.: Take a tonic for that humor. It s too
faint. .. .Tin-seratcher: A matter for legal opinion.
....1921: Sure about their crime? We’ve had all
sorts of yarns.... Reg 8.: Don’t care for “Black
Book.”. . . .Bungo: No hope at ail until you put it in
one-fourth the space. . . .Rusty : So dull. . . .E.C.G.W.:
If it’s the high price of hair-cutting that makes you
write . verse we’ve got a grievance against the
Barbers’ Union... .W.E.K. : “£1000” is factory-
made stuff, with the machine marks all over it....
Twyford: Verse lamentable.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.H.D.B. : The egg is more like a top. But never
mind, it is too stale to use. . . .S,H.: No humor in
that murderer or the whiskers of the policeman....
11.D.T.: Though the beauty is badly drawn she is a
girl of promise. Keep 0n... . Dorothy M.: The buxom
lady on the couch seems to know that her arms are
too long. Study. . . .M.J.M.: She’s gone in the shoul-
ders.... Sam T.: You’re only at the beginning of the
long art road. It’s a longer trip than the other for
the novice... .C.G.Mc.C.: No value... .K.U.F.: Can’t
use it. Improve your drawing. .. .E.A.D.: There is no
home for it here. . . .M.C.R.: Feeble idea carrried out
on a stretcher... .M.J.M.: You dug the drawings out
of yourself, but where did you exhume the ideas?
....Fin: Learn a little more about the j0b....
W.G.G.: Both men look worried, and one has a
twisted neck ... . .T.McL.: Your luck is bad and will
continue so until you learn how to draw. . . . D.D.:
Good try. Study and strive for a little more free-,
dcm. . . .8.H.8.: Stiff and ugly....T. 2035: Sorry
all unsuitable.
“Hermish”: “If you were selling this.”
asked the counsel in a smuggling case in
Melbourne, holding up a shimmering silken
sliawl, “how much would you want for it?”
“I’d be letting it go cheap if, I took 80s.
for it,” answered the witness, a silk expert.
“And if you were bnyingjt, what would you
consider a fair thing?” continued counsel.
“If I paid 15s. 6d. I’d be giving a good price,”
answered the expert calmly. home body’s
got to pay for the vast multiplication of
shops that make a city.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Gabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.—City 4246,
4247,
4810.
2,4, 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
via
the Allied Route,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, DECEMBER 10,
SONOMA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Telephone: City 2282. 44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
T H ?i North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu
larlv to:— B
TWEED RICHMOND, CLAUENCE, BELLINGER
«iVmm>o CCA ’i MACLEAY and MANNING
RIVERS: also to BYRON DAY, COPE’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
*n C T bi c nat iS", l ,i C ‘ cets J are issuet * in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include hist- or second-class rail to BRISBANE
HoV rlt 11 eat j?~steamsr to Miirwillumbah!
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers
there connecting with one of the Company's up di
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa. 94
ROUND TICKETS.— First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 13s. 6d. ; second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 7s. 6d. B
For particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Banking, Public Companies. &c.
THS
Bank of Queensland Limited
-Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
M*o, ( T>9^ a, ™ an) : WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
r9 C wn INEY ’ M.L.A. ; Mon. Sir ROBERT PHILP,
K.C.M.G.; Hon. A. J. TIIYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £Boo.ooo' 0 0
Paid-up Capital . 691,850 10 0
Reserve Fund 272,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since IS9S specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunnihg, Esq. (Chairman) •
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love. Esq. ;
W. H. Hart, Esq. ; Joseph Hughes, Esq., 1.5.0.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON
II HAD OFFICE - - - II It IS KAN E.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
Amerloa, Canada, Bouth Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK Of COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up iqq atq
Reserve Fund 7.7 “^SMOO
Directors :■ HERBERT R. LYSAGHT, Esq., Chairman •
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LL.D. ; FRANK n S
WOOD Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon.
F. JAGO SMITH, M.L.C. ; DUNCAN CARSON,
Esq. ’
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SY'DNEY (Corner George and Kin»
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Chief Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finnev.
LONDON (37 Threadneedie Street, E.C.),
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 146 P-laces throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock
Preference Shares..
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up
Uncalled Capital
£529,988
750,000
1,000.000
500,000
_ • • • • • .
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,496,224
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Shipping, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST. FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton'or to direct European port.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, December.
R.M.S. MAKER A, January.
The most beautiful Scenery in the World—the Canadian Rockies—is on the All-Red Route.
The Prairies, the Great Lakes, Chicago, Niagara Palls and New York can all be visited.
Through bookings to all Canadian, United States and European points.
Stop-overs on the Railways Arranged.
CALL OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS OF THIS ROUTE.
PASSENGERS CAN CHANGE AT HONOLULU INTO A DIRECT STEAMER FOR
SAN FRANCISCO.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco,via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through hookings to any part of the United States, 'Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS.
For Illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD.. 259 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
wmm
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Send for particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
Directors:
£+,000,000
3,100,000
4,000,000
£11,100,000
The Hon. Sir Cnarles Iv. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
F. B. S. Falkiner. Esq., M.H.R.
Th? Hon. Reginald ,T. Black, M.L.C.
Auditors ; S. E. Laidley, Esq. ; A. G. Milson, Esq.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
General Manager: Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office —29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
340 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Commonwealth
B HEAD OFFICE
jsanfe ot SMralia
SYDNEY. ■
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking: Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain),
also London (2), and A.I.F. Camps in England.
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and SAVINGS BANK AGENCIES at 2776 Post Offices
throughout Australia, Papua, New Britain, Solomon Islands,
and The Pacific.
JAMES KELL,
Deputy Governor
1919
DENISON MILLER,
Governor
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales,
HEAD OFFICE: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Commissioners:
R. A. Warden, President; W. H. O’M. Wood, H. D. Hall.
EXTRACTS FROM ANNUAL REPORT FOR 1918-19
Excess of deposits over withdrawals
Interest added to depositors’ accounts
£1,743,120 15 8
1,363,264 10 11
Increase in depositors’ balances
Increase in number of accounts
Branches open at 30th June, 1919 (since increased to 139)
Agencies open at 30th June, 1919
Advances to Farmers and Settlers —Principal outstanding
Advances to Farmers and Settlers —Advances Current
Advances to Home purchasers—Principal outstanding
Advances to Home purchasers—Advances Current
£3,106,385 6 7
37,583
136
500
£2,599,751 3 9
6,171
1,415,634 17 7
3,995
11 Moore Street,
13th November, 1919.
By Order of the Commissioners,
J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
Shiynjngr,
■
Osaka ShosenKaisha
(O.S.K. Mercantile Steamship Co. Ltd.).
Direct Mont lily Cargo Service Manila,
Hong Kong, Japan and tile East. Tran-
shipment cargo accepted for all Eastern
ports, Pacific Coast ports and Europe,
transhipping at Japan.
MITSUKI MARU, sailing middle November.
KOHSO MARU, sailing end November, early
December.
MADRAS MARU, sailing middle to end of
December.
For particulars apply to
American Trading Company
of Australia,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
40 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: City 4166, Six Lines.
And at Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide.
SYDNEY INTER-STATE SUB COMMITTEE
INTER-STATE PASSENGER SAILINGS
(Circumstances Permitting).
FOR MELBOURNE.
(Tel. 10684).
FOR HOBART.
Huddart Parker LiM
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND. —Regular sail-
ings between Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand
ports and vice'versa; particulars to be obtained on
application. „ _ ,
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA. —From Sydney to
Hobart and vice versa every three weeks. Between
Melbourne and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; OeorgeStreet,Sydney.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
Favorite Mail Route to Japan, with connections
at Japan to
EUROPE AND AMERICA.
Tours can be arranged to China, Japan, Korea,
by this Line.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN.
Via Brisbane, Townsville, Thursday
Island, Zamboanga, Manila, Hongkong,
Nagasaki, Kobe and Yokohama.
| SPECIAL NOTICE. —All Passengers proceeding to
JAPAN must have their Passports vised by the Con-
sul-General for Japan in accordance with the regula-
tions of the Japanese Government
Full particulars of Sailing Dates, Passage Money,
Freights, etc., apply
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LTD.,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable Addr
“Iroquois.
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Managing Agents for:
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co. Limited.
Fitzroy Estates Limited.
Blaclilieath . Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS FOlt:
Biitish India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Sydney).
P. & 0. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle),
j Messageries Maritiines Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane.
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co. —at Queens-
land Ports).
Union S.S'. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports). «
Huddart Parker L.td. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tug: and Lighter Owners.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
Head Office: Mary Street, Brisbane.


Amusement*.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. MclN iOSII.
-J“ IVO L I THEATRE, SYDNEY.
KVKUY EVENING AT 8.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday, at 2.30.
MY LADY FRAYLE.
A MUSICAL PLAY OF HEART THROBS.
Plans at Nicholson’s and the Tivoli.
“JMVOLI THEATRE, MELROURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH D. McINTOSII presents
LONDON’S LATEST SUCCESS,
TAILS UP.
Prices as usual.
....ICIO N T II E A T K K. SYDNEY.
Direction ,1. C. WILLIAMSON T.ID
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF NOTHING BUT THE
TRUTH.
C K,T
SATURDAY’ NEXT, NOVEMBER 29.
LIGHTNIN’.
“Lightnin’ ” Bill Jones is coining—a liar and a
gentleman. Still flashing in New York after two
years.
Plan at Paling’s.
||lC u MA .1 lfi STV ’ S.
S V I) N E I
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MatinPes Wednesday and Saturday at 2.
NEW ENGLISH MUSICAL COMEDY CO.
GOING UP.
100th Sydney performance next Monday.
Plan at Paling’s. Prices as usual.
AI,A C E TIIEAT It E. SY!> N E Y
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
u
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
SARA ALLGOOD in
OLD LADY 31,
A Sunshine Comedy.
306 LAUGHS 306.
FUNNIEST COMEDY EVER WRITTEN.
Plan at Nicholson’s.
N lON I’lC TU R E TIIEAT It E S
THE PICK OF THE WORLD'S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE. LYCEUM.
STRAND, GLOBE, LYRIC, EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC, GRAND, KING’S CROSS,
WESTS OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
Hick majesty’s theatre, melkouicne
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
SHORT SEASON OF GRAND OPERA.
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY),
ROMEO AND JULIET.
TO-MORROW,
LA BOHEME.
Plan at Allan’s. Popular Prices.
Til IC ATIt E RO Y A 1., MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, NOVEMBER 29.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the Attractive
Musical Play,
THEODORE AND CO.
Plan at Allan’s.
Prices as usual.
KING’S THEATRE. HEMiOCRNE.
Lessees: BAILEY *' GRANT-
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
KATE HOWARDE and her Brilliant Company in the
Popular Success,
’POSSUM PADDOCK.
Prices as usual.
Plan at Allan’s.
H
OYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
ETHEL CLAYTON in
MAGGIE PEPPER.
WALLACE REID in THE DUB.
Prices as usual.
|y|AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
MARY PICK FORD
in
DADDY LONGLEGS.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
Amusements.
(IA’MPIA, WIKTHB’ I’AKK, JIELBOUBXE.
WORTHS' NEW CIRCUS LTD.
GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays and Holidays.
l J lan at Glen s.
1" HE ALLAN WILKIE COMPANY,
including Miss FKEDISWYDE HUNTER-WATTS,
Touring New Zealand in
1 UNDUE WAKES, CANDIDA, THE SCHOOL FOR
SCANDAL, SHE STOOPS TO CONQUER. TRILBY,
CAMILLE, THE SILVER KING, THE MIDNIGHT
WEDDING.
NOW IN FOURTH WEEK AT WELLINGTON.
gACKTOKY X E T O N.
JANUARY 24 TO 31, 1920.
Athletic sports.
JANUARY 20.
£W3. Including Pedestrian events £T>5.
T. W. SUTHERLAND, Gen. Sec.
Kyneton, Victoria.
|y| ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of tlie world’s films, including
:hc productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, IrATHE,l r ATHE,
WORLD and SELZNICK.
gIUTANMA THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
/
1 i
UNUSUAL
COMFORT
ABBEY SHOES.
The name of Abbey is your guarantee of
securing Footwear which will give you un-
usual comfort. The highest-grade material
is used and the fit is a sure guide to
Satisfaction.
The boot illustrated is made in Choice
Tan Willow Calf Bal., Leather lined, Stout
Soles, Wide Welts,
Price 35/- and 47/6.
Also in Black Box Calf,
Price 42/-
Made in full sizes arid three fittings,
narrow, medium and wide.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR CATALOG.
A BB C Y,
313 Georg'e Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
No Needles to Change
with the
EDISON AMBEROLA
Not only are you saved the bother of changing
needles, but, in doing away with them, the
Amberola also does away with all needle scratchi-
ness.
Edison Amberolas are fitted with the famous
Edison Diamond Stylus Reproducer, and thus a
smooth, clear mellow tone is assured. In fact,
after being used to the somewhat metallic, “gritty ’
tone of other machines, the Amberola tone will
agreeably surprise you.
There are several models. Illustrated is
Amberola 75 —plays Blue Amberola Records. In
either Golden Oak or Mahogany finish. Price
. £27/10/-
Call on the nearest Edison Dealer for a
demonstration, or write direct for details.
J
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD (Wholesale only), 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
M.S. DEPENDABLE SPORTS GOODS.
Every Kind of Sport and Recreation Catered for.
Ik
*
3
! i
t'7
“Quality Goods at
Honest Prices.”
EVERYTHING EOR
TENNIS.
RACKETS.
M.S. Handicap 7/G
M.S. Champion 12/G
Leather Handle.. 12/6
Special Champion 16/6
(Postage on ltackct: N.S.W., 9d. j other States, 1/2.)
Specialists in
All Kinds of
RACKET REPAIRS
BALLS.
Each.
Grey Regulation -/11
Challenge Covered 1/4 ■
Dunlop Regulation 1/4 1
DOZ.
CilCT*
Each. Doz.
Dunlop’s Champion 2/7 30/-
A.vve’s 1919 Champion 3/- 35/*
Siazongcr’s 1919 Champion 3/- 35/-
(Postage on
one doz.: N.S.W., 1/-; other States. 1 ; 8.)
SUNDRIES.
(Kindly add sufficient to cover cost of carriage.)
•Each.
Tennis Nets, full size, 40/-, 50/-, GO/-, 70/-
Tennis Couvt Markers 30/-
Tennis Tapes <22/0
Racket Covers 2/6. 4/0
Tennis Ratchet 7/0
Central Wood Puss t/0
Gilt Solution, for renovating the strings
of rackets bottle -/9
Each.
The “ll'’ Racket Press 2/9
The “Grip’’ Ra< ket Press 3/0, 4/0
Racket Handle Covers 1 /-, i/3, 1/0
Scoring- Books 1/*
Racket Gut, 3Gft. coils,
2/-, 3/0, 4/0, 5/6 coil.
Tracey’s Gut, 21ft. coils,
4/-, 6/9, 9/- coil.
BOXING.
Our Gloves are well and faithfully made from selected materials,
and are unsurpassed for durability and effectiveness.
MEN’S (xLOVES. Set of 4.
C. 8.8., real leather, special value 9/-, 10/C
C. 8.8., Fighting, best tan napa, laced palms, 0 or 8 oz ....12/6
C. 8.8. Fighting, superior napa, laced palms, leather lined,
G or S oz 14/6, 16/6
SPECIAL FIGHTING, napa, leather lined, padded wrist,
6 or 8 .18/6, 20/-, .22/-
PERFECTION FIGHTING, napa, leather lined, G or
8 24/-
HIGH-GRADE FIGHTING, napa, curled hair, lieed
palms, 6 or 8 oz. 26/-
THE “LIGHTNING,” made in Australia, officially
adopted and exclusively used by Baker Stadiums, Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane. Personally recommended by
(Postage on one sot: N.S.W., 9d. ; other States, 1/2.)
FIGHTER’S SUSPENSORY & BODY BAND,
7in. wide (Post. 4d) 9/6 each.
JOCK STRAPS, best quality (Post 3d.) 6/6 each.
BOXING BOOTS, special English Leather, extra light,
Weight about 3-j07.. (Post 64d.) 17/6 parr.
Keep your razor
keen by using—
STROPOUNE,
9d.
TIN
(Post Free).
7
PUNCHING BALLS.
We carry a wide range, including the famous REACH
Ralls. A few minutes each day at Ball Punching will
keep you in good condition.
ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation size, soft leather, iigut
make, for fast work, .. .... 9/-, 10/6, 12/6, 16/6
“REACH” ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation size, fine
lea i her. stayed seams, very fast —
18/6, 22/6, 25/-
“REACH” ARMY - , Swinging Ball, regulation size, finest
napa leather, welted and stayed, very fast and lively
30/-, 35/-
“REAOH” ARMY", extra light Professional Swinging Ball,
specially designed for fast work, guaranteed durable and
perfect shape; made of highest-quality brown mocha kid.
The'finest made 40/*
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, rubber for
floor and rope for ceiling 12/6, 15/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, regulation size, special leather,
double-stitched, very light 21/, 25/-, 30/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, best selected hide,
rubber a'nd leather fittings . . 20/-, 22/6, 25/-, 30/-
PORTABLE BALL, strong spiral spring, upright, heavy
iron base, leather cover and bladder, complete... . 60/-
Above balls fitted with best-quality bladders.
(Postage on Army or Expert: N.SAV., 9d.; other States, 1/2.)
Ball Gloves . 3/9, 4/9 p>- Mitts . . . 2/9 v*.
Punching Platforms 40/-, 60/-, 90/- each
Ball and Socket Swivels . 1/6, 2/6 „
Ball-bearing Swivels 3/9, 4/6, o/- »
SPORTING RE-PAIRS A SPECIALTY.
Guns, Rifles, Revolvers, Tennis Rackets, Cricket Bats, Skates, Golf
Clubs, Hockey and Lacrosse Sticks, Fishing Rods, Reels, etc., lepaired
by expert Workmen. Lowest Charges. -
Send tor copies of “Can’t B Beat ” Sportsman’s Guid'e (Bl) and “Sure Catch" 1919
Angler’s Guide (B 2). All sportsmen should possess them. Post free to any aaa> ess.
IC.
tinmans M
AUSTRALIA'S GREATEST
SPORTS OUTFITTERS
AND TOBACCONISTS
City Sports Depot
99 Kind St also at
Newcastle t! Brisbane


THE REXONA REMEDIES.
Products of Quality.
as
m
1
'
£
Mr. PETER
BROOKS,
(From cj photo.)
Peter Brooks, t.he popular and
fashionable tenor, late of the Stiffy
and Mo Revue Co., who has been so
delighting Sydney audiences, writes
us the following letter In praise of
the Rexona Remedies:—
I want to tell you how good I have
found your Rcxoua and your
Rexona Soap. I- have used both for
some years. 1 find Rexona most
excellent for catarrh, and always
carry a pot of it with me for that
purpose. The Rexona Soap I think
is the best I have ever come across.
I use it to shampoo my hair with,
and as a regular bath and Toilet
Soap.
I also use your Rexona Shavhig
Soap for shaving, and I consider the
Rexona products absolutely the best
of anything of their kind I have ever
come across. The constant iftte of
make-up which one has to put on,
having two shows a day, is extremely
hard on the skin, and has a great
tendency to cause pimples, but
Rexona Soap I find completely over-
comes this, and if there Is the slight-
est roughness of the skin I always
apply a little of the Rexona.
Wishing you every success,
I am your sincerely,
(Sgd.) PETER BROOKS.
92 Darlington Road, Darlington.
Try Rexona for Yourself.
All the world over everyone likes the Rexona Remedies. They are universal
favorites and never disappoint you. Rexona is the Rapid Healer, and Rexona Soap
is the f acial Soap of the century. There is now a new addition to the Rexona
products; it is Rexona, the Triangular Shaving Stick, and makes shaving a delight.
Rexona has always been famous for its wonderful healing powers, and Rexona
Soap and Shaving Stick contain the same soothing powers that have made Rexona
the King' oi Ointments. Those who have once used Rexona and Rexona Soap wonder
how they ever got along without them. So don’t delay, but try
the Rexona Remedies lor yourself and prove their value.
0
o
0
THE RAPID HEALER
gSfKe&EN®
CO” Strenqtf £•
F° r flavour
Ceylon Postage Stamps
For Sale all kinds of Ceylon Postage
Stamps, used or unused. Wholesale only.
Lists on application.
R. E. DE ZOYSA, Stamp Dealer,
Norris Road, Pettah, Colombo, Ceylon.
<?
/r
H
'CJS&
M
m
I*l
?£
I*'
0“
tn
WM
*>».
BJ
ea
5;
The kind that
fills itself ;*
Che Uery
thing for Christmas
Yon need no longer worry about what to give your friends. Give
them all ONOIO pens. You can buy them daintily packed and
labelled, ready for posting: at the Shop.
All you have to do is to write the address, and stamp.
An ONOTO is a gift that is sure to please. It is the fountain pen
that fills itself, cleans itself, never leaks, and never scratches. It is
a model of simplicity.
The Onoto is British Made, and is guaranteed by its makers.
THE SAFETY PEN NEVER LEAKS.
Price 17/" and in a variety of more elaborate styles for presentation purposes, of all
Stati'ners. Jewellers and Stores. Booklet about the Onoto Pen free on application to
THCS Oc LA RUE & CO., Ltd., 182 Bunhill Row, London, E.C., or the Australasian
Representatives, Norman Baker & Longhurst, 50 York Street, Sydney.
The High Road.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
~'jV'T"' OW who shall sing the long road,
i\ And who shall sing the high?
-A- l The teamster with the swinging
load
Goes striding, singing by ;
And in the valley sleeping
The little smokes are curled,
To tell of homesteads keeping
Heart-sheltered from the world.
But I shall take the high road
That is no road at all,
Where none have reaped and none have
sowed
Nor built the dyke and wall;
And far above the dreaming
Of little fields of green
I shall have glimpse and gleaming
Of what the world may mean.
Blue sky above the high road,
Vast rivers of the air
That round and round the stars have flowed
In drifts of praise and prayer ;
They sweep the wide hill places,
They wash the twisted tree, •
And to the rock’s grey faces
They whisper mystery.
My foot upon the high road,
A pride of truth is mine,
For here the ageless forest Strode,
Here clung the dateless vine,
The simple things unweary
That strove with life and breath,
Yet bade good-morrow cheery
To green decay and death.
Oh. lights upon the high road—• »
Full heart and splendid scorn —
How pearly white the dew glowed
The hour the day was born !
How swam the grey mists hazing
The dawn on rock and sod,
Grown rapt with night-long gaz'ng
Into the eyes of God !
Look downward from the high road,
Look downward, heart, and sigh !
The teamster with the swinging load
Goes striding, singing by;
And one small ant is creeping,
Full-burdened, o’er a leaf—
Ant-toil and manhood’s reaping!
What is the harvest sheaf?
Oh, sorrow of the high road^
Does God with sighing see
A daily burden and a goad
As all the life of me?
And if He hear me singing,
Must my song bear Him still
A dream of green years springing
For greener years to kill?
But I will take the high road.
For pride of life is mine—
A pride as debt the vast years owed
To man’s far-climbing line.
The winds of truth are blowing;
My gaze is upward still—
Beyond all Nature’s knowing
My dreaming and my will!
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
How I Made My Fortune.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’M toothless and decrepit now, but I've
seen the day. Yes, I’ve seen the day.
As a youngster I was fond of insects,
and ants became my special study. I seemed
to have an uncanny power over the little
beings. They would never sting me, and
seemed to appreciate my presence with them.
As I grew older I noticed the awful waste
of energy in the ant nest. One worker would
not only stagger homeward under a load
that would daunt Hercules, but would climb
over obstacles that could easily be avoided.
Then a couple of others would rush up, spend
a second or two in conversation, and tight
for the possession of the prize. The winner
would at once start to carry it back the
way the previous carrier had come, then lose
the prize to another successful wrestler, and
the same course would be repeated. Of the
countless thousands of ants only .005 per
cent, were really working; the rest were
only a hindrance. Lack of organisation was
the trouble.
I studied the matter carefully and decided
to try to organise a working herd, and at
last, by very slow degrees, I had a small lot
that toiled with method and in relays. I
induced these to teach others, and thus I at
last had a whole nest working in a method-
ical manner.
I would give little exhibitions with my
pets, and for the amusement of myself and
onlookers would shift a few yards of earth.
I had them so trained that they would work
by direction of stakes driven into the ground,
the stakes being tainted with secret pre-
parations which let them know where earth
had to be shifted from and to.
By the chance suggestion of a mate the
commercial possibilities were shown to me.
I would, I resolved, make these ants worn
for me; they would be the perfect laborers,
free from strikes; calling for no tucker or
accommodation expenses, and demanding no
outlay for workers’ compensation. I had
solved the problem of the attainment of
wealth. I had some trouble at first in
evading the i’rotector of Aborigines, who
demanded a percentage of the black-ants’
earnings; but I beat him on a technical
point.
Earth-shifting—that was the thing my
workers were best fitted for. Therefore I
took lessons by post in tank-sinking and
dam-making, and by the time I had mastered
this sufficiently to undertake the work I had
three nests of ants broken to harness. I
took a contract, a small one at first, only
a 5000-yard job, and got it at one
shilling per yard. Having bought a sulky
and pony I started out for the job with
three boxes of workers numbering 1,042,8t>4.
With an ascertained capacity of Bdwt. per
day per worker they would average 25 cub.
yds. per day, which would leave me a clear
profit of £l. With experience I hoped to
increase my workers, and thus my profits
ten, even twenty, fold.
1 landed at the station and introduced my-
self to the manager, a long, old Scotchman
smelling of whisky. He wanted to see my
plant, and I took him out to the sulky.
He again asked to see the plant. I ex-
plained to him my trained workers and
ottered to show them. He was sceptical,
but curious. I asked him to have a look at
them, and offered to give a small practical
demonstration of their ability. He came anu
peeped over into the first box and breathed
hard —this cost me 897 trained workers, and
every subsequent breath meant a loss to m :
of Is. 7|d. per day. I got him away, but I
had to buy half a sheep and feed them on
the bones to restore them to an amicable
frame of mind.
Next day I was shown out to the site oi
my labors. I pitched camp, drove long nar-
row holes into the ground for the ants’
accommodation, liberally scattered bones
about to save delay in food-foraging, sent my
recruiters out for additional labor, pegged
out the work with my prepared stakes and
turned the workers loose on the job. Mac-
pherson, the manager, stayed to watch the
start, and I stayed to watch Macpherson.
They worked splendidly. At the end of
the first week they-had exceeded my estimate
11.87 per cent., and new recruits were
rapidly being enrolled and broken in. Mac-
pherson was satisfied. I was jubilant. The
fame of this tank-sinking plant grew, and
other station-owners and managers came to
inspect and were satisfied. I was book-
ing contracts at such a rate that all other
plants were put out of action. There were,
of course, occasional accidents on the job.
One day a splay-footed Irishman trod on
three of my best workers. Gently I picked
them up and saw that they were hopelessly
crippled. Death was the only kindness 1
could show them, so, as tenderly as possible,
I crushed them between two stones. Their
mates ran up and bore away the mangled
bodies. Tears rolled down my cheeks and
fell with a loud splash on the ground, drown-
ing sixteen more workers. I calculated that
a good cry would cost me Is. 3jd, a day, and
that was a luxury I could not afford.
At the end of a fortnight I thought I could
see fortune within reach. But when I went
out as usual to inspect the work I found
all at a standstill. Workers were rolling on
the ground in agony and others were leaving
as fast as possible. In two days I had lost
half my team by desert : ons or deaths. Ther
I found the cause. Change of diet was
needed. Meat, always meat, caused internal
pains, and reduced the working capacity of
the herd. It cost me fourteen tins of honey,
half a hundredweight of jam and three
pounds of Epsom salts to get them in good
health and contented again. By this time
my staff Was so reduced that i could not
work at anything near full capacity, and
half the team was needed for the drilling
O' recruits: With delays of this sort, and
occasional social quarrels amongst them, my
fiist contract took a little over six months
to complete; but it cleared me £lBO and I
had an incomparable team of workers and
huge contracts to go on with.
After doing a few more tanks I went in
for larger contracts. I had by this time
moie than doubled my team and understood
them so well that there was never an idle
day weather permitting. I was making so
much money that I decided to marry, and
perhaps by the law of the attraction of con-
traries, chose as my wife the human equiva-
lent of a porcupine. She and fhe ants could
not agree from the time she first came to
the camp. She was quite without considera-
tion in the way she walked amongst them,
and they attacked her with as little com-
punction. It was even going between them,
but. was costing me an awful lot of money,
and discontent was noticeable amongst the
workers. At last it came to the point that
I could uot afford to run both in the same
camp. Keeping the necessary arid dispensing
with the luxury, I provided for my wife
elsewhere.
I was now making money in handfuls, and
side-lines of a profitable nature presented
themselves. The first time I was asked to
fk I<flV t e * know enough to insist
that the deceased should be enclosed in an
ant-proof coffin. I detailed 387,497 workers
tor this job, and could not coax them home
again. I never made another mistake of this
sort, and grave-digging became a profitable
recreation for good workers in need of a
change and light work. Bore drains, wells,
post-holes, any excavating work at ail I
had more than I could do.
I was now taking very large contracts,
and the need of a steady stream of recruits
led me to institute a breeding department.
By very careful selection of good roomv
queens and brainy and muscular kings I
was able to breed more than I needed. In
fact,_ had there been other men with the
special ability I possessed I could have made
good money by providing the market with
well-bred ants. The queens were taught to
lay their eggs in special incubators which
could be carried from camp to camp as we
shii ted. and thus there was no loss, and new
workers were always available. The advan-
tages of this were shown me in a trial which
I held by pitting 500 ants of my
own breeding against the same number
taken and trained from a local nest. Mine
had 02.6 per cent, greater working capacity.
Occasional desertions and incursions of an
undesirable element showed me the neces-
sity of protection. I trained a number of
bulldog ants to itet as watch-dogs, and these
continually encircled the labor compounds.
Pliere may have been occasional losses of
workers trying to escape, but discipline was
maintained.
As the years went by I had larger and
larger teams of workers, and no contract
was too big for me to undertake. My bank
account would now have allowed me to re-
tire at any time; but the love of my sub-
jects kept me with them, and I would only
(Continued on next paps.;


“Zam-Buk
is a boon
to
Mothers.”
§
X
A
Scalp Eczema &. Spreading
Sores Cured.
Telling liow Zam-Buk rescued her child from
awful disfigurement, Mrs. Johns, of 283 Palmer-
ston Street, Carlton, Melbourne, said: “My
little girl Constance was attacked by a nasty
eruption, which broke out all over her head.
The sores discharged, and wherever matter went
fresh sores appeared. This spreading disease
caused awful suffering, as the itching was
almost unbearable. Her hair came off with the
sores, and although I got a lotion and applied
it. the disease continued to spread.
‘‘Then we started using Zam-Buk, which took effect
right away. It drew out all bad matter, and soothed
the itching and irritation. The spreading was arrested
and the sores gradually died away. In the end Zam-
Buk completely cured Constance, and now her skin is
perfectly clear and her hair has grown again.
“I have also cured a case of ringworm with Zam-Buk,
while on many occasions I have used it for minor
injuries, and never known it to fail.”
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
When you ask for Zam-Buk Healing Balm, see
that you get it. Bo not be put off with some-
thing which is claimed by jour trader as “just
as good” because it returns him more profit.
There is NOTHING “just as good” as the proved,
reliable, ever-ready and effective Zam-Buk.
SCALP TROUBLES-
Iam-Buk goes to the Root of the
Trouble & Drives Disease from the Tissues
Mothers find it very difficult to guard against unsightly and distressing diseases of
the scalp among the little ones, especially as some such troubles are very catching;
and once they have developed it is more difficult to effect a cure. Eczema,
scald-head, honey-scab, dandruff and ringworm are scalp affections for which
Zam-Buk has proved most efficacious. Whether the form of the eruption be running
sores, dry scabs or scales, incrustations, or bald inflamed patches, Zam-Buk is alike
soothing and curative. Mothers should keep Zam-Buk handy, and dress daily any
part of skin or scalp which presents the least suspicion of disease. This course
will save the little ones endless pain and their parents endless worry and anxiety.
Ringworm Caused 12 Months’ Absence from School.
Mrs. M. DENNETT, 44 Edv. rds Street, Redfern, Sydney, writes:—“My little girl, Alice,
had a bad ringworm on her head. Try as I would, I could not, cure it, and Alice was away from
school 12 months. The doctor seemed unable to do her any good, so I took her to the Children's
Hospital, but the treatment did not meet with any success either.
“As a last resort I tried Zam-Buk, and from the very first application it was clear that I had
at last struck the right remedy.
“Not only did Zam-Buk stop the irritation, hut it seemed to get to the root of the disease straight
away, with a result that, after using only two pots, the ringworm, which had defied medical treatment,
disappeared.
“Soon Alice’s hair, which had been cut away, began to grow again, and is now as strong as ever. Ii
necessity arises again I shall use the Zam-Buk first, as it saves a lot of worry and expense.”
THE WORLDS GREATEST HEALER.
Illjliiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiimi!
SOOTHES AND HEALS.
Zam-Buk is also
j List the thing
for Cuts, Bruises,
Burns and Scalds.
In the case of skin
eruptions and dis-
eases like Eczema,
Ulcers, Ringworm,
etc., Zam-Buk cures
from the “root” up,
and grows healthy
skin. Zam-Buk
never goes had,
while its concen-
trated character
makes it most eco-
nomical to use.
1/6 and 3/6 a pot,
at all Chemists and I
Stores. A
take work which suited us and gave us plea-
sure to do.
But as their labors eased they became less
indulgent towards me. If I went amongst
them smoking a clay pipe every ant within
smelling distance would cease work. To eat
an onion meant a stop-work meeting, a new
suit of clothes meant the best part of a
week’s lost labor, and I would never dare
to go amongst them smelling of haggis and
pibroch and wearing a tartan kilt. In fact,
the slaves were becoming the masters and
were running me.
At last the end came. I was forced to
leave them for a couple of days to attend
to some business in town. It appears that
during my absence a German hawker trading
in sauer-kraut attempted to walk across the
work to see me at my tent. When I returned
from town I could see a huge and growing-
heap of dead and dying ants, and in the
middle of this heap was all that was left of
the hawker. Each ant as it seized part of
what had been the man fell back in agony
and expired. Of course there was an in-
quest, and I was arrested, but easily proved
an alibi. I had not the heart to start
again, and retired from work, having more
than enough to keep me in ease for the rest
of my life.
I have a small nest of ants now —they
are at the bottom of the garden, and beside
them is the grave which they have dug for
me, and at my death I have arranged to be
buried there in a perforated coffin.
URANDANGIE.
His Eyes.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
H, damn yer eyes!” said Mrs. Pibble
I I at last.
Mr. Pibble looked up from the
book on his knees. From behind his thick
reading-glasses the eyes in question looked
plaintively—habitually plaintively—at Mrs.
Pibble. In the half-light of the half-dead
shop in Cathedral-street they looked white —
a dull venous white, with only the yellow
border to show where the pupils began. Mr.
Pibble .took, off his glasses, and the pupils
of his eyes took on the faintest shade of
palest blue, opaque and lifeless to the last
forlorn degree.
“I can’t ’elp what the doctor says, my
dear,” he said.
“I dunno wot they’re all cornin’ to,” said
Mrs. Pibble; “ ’ere’s Nellie wantin’ shoes,
an’ Bert ’avin’ to stay ’ome while I wash ’is
shirt, an’ me meetin’ Mrs. Briggs an’ not
’avin’ the price of a beer to shout ’er after
four drinks on ’er.” Mr. Pibble glanced
down at his folded hands, but said nothing.
“An’ now yer say Dr. O’Grady wants yer to
go an’ be operated on. Oh, damitall, I ses.”
With the four drinks recorded in his memory,
Mr. Pibble still said nothing.
In the derelict shop in the ’Loo, Mr.
Pibble sold third-hand books and newspapers
—or. rather, he kept the first and sold the
second. A lending library announced itself
boldly in a home-made legend in the win-
dow," but its books, were seldom borrowed.
Casual customers were few, and regulars
were uncertain; in the 20 years of struggle
in the dark rooms the books were the only
certainties for Mr. Pibble —they, alas, never
left their places. The newspapers, especially
the Wednesday and Saturday issues, kept
things precariously going—they and Mr.
Pibble’s failing eyes. In the ’Loo, where
eyes are mostly sharp and very watchful,
infirmity is sometimes an asset.
“Where’s Nellie?” said Mrs. Pibble.
. “Not back from the shop yet, my dear,”
Mr. Pibble replied.
“Ah ! she'll ’ave somethin’ to say to this,”
Mrs. Pibble said, portentously and meaning-
lessly.
“Yes, I suppose she will,” said Mr. Pibble
sadly.
Nellie had taken the place that Life had
left vacant, and was making as good as her
16 years would allow. Her father had
passed on to Iter some of the secrets of the
changeless books. In a draper’s shop in
William-street she was making ready to
learn those other secrets which are in no
books and which are not passed on. Since
the good-looking, cheery cook of the Alpha
boarding-house had become Mrs. Pibble, 20
years ago, the Pibbles had found that most
secrets are learned in person—nothing worth
much is passed on.
Looking up from his thoughts, Mr. Pibble
saw that his wife had fallen unbeautifuliy
asleep. lie saw, too, that it was after
seven, and long after Nellie’s time of re-
turn. Putting on his hat, he walked up
Crown-street and turned the corner, taking
great care at the crossings—things always
seemed much farther away than they .really
were. In the high light from a smallgoods
window, rich with opulent hams, he re-
membered that Mrs. Pibble had forgotten
to come home and cook dinner, and that
since breakfast he had shared some bread
and butter with Bert. Whatever he missed,
he could certainly see the sausages, and the
pink, cold beef, the dull glow of the pickled
beets.
Nellie stood beside him and said suddenly :
“Hullo, Dad !”
His eyes looking at her glowed into the
strong blue of lapis-lazuli, danced and glit-
tered with the life the books had taken
away. Deep down in them a fire answered
her smile. Fine eyes—fine, burning lamps
of his heart —or so it seemed, in the glare
of Mr. Wiener’s window.
“Hello, Nell; you’re late, aren’t you?”
“Yes, I worked back. Want a cup of tea,
Dad? I’ll shout. Did you miss your dinner
again ?”
“AVell, my dear, yer mother was out all
day, and”——•
“Oh! Is she all right, Daddie?” Nellie
looked fixedly at a box of sardines.
“Oh, yes, she’s all right—’avin’ a little
sleep. Quite all right.”
“Let’s come and get this cup of tea.”
Nellie slipped her arm into his and turned
up William-street.
“Wouldn’t it be better, Nell, if you bought
a little somethin’ and we took it ’ome? Then
yer mother could”
Mrs. Pibble stood before them as the}
turned back.
“Well, wot are you two dom t . Gum to
the pitchers?”
“No, my dear,’ said Mr. Pibble; I came
to meet Nell, and we were just gout to buy
a little beef or somethin for suppei.
Looking up at Mrs. I lbble Ins .} s <
back into the white hopelessness, that Life
and the books had made, a maib e, venous
death, forlorn and desolate- or so it seemed
m the dark before Mr Ryans pib.
Late in the evening Dr. O Grady, a little
man with a stoop and a bullying-manner,
came into the shop. Mrs. Pibble had gone
grumbling to bed; Nellie was washing up
and singing in the kitchen. Dr. O’Grady
walked through into the back room, and sat
down in silence
“Well, doctor,” said Mr. Pibble feebly.
“What about it?” the doctor said. “Will
you be operated on, Pibble?”
“I can ’t.”
“Whv not? Scared?”
“No, not that exactly, doctor; but I
’aven’t got the money.”
“Well. I’ll lend you the £lO for the Nor-
man operation, and the Mortimer Fund will
cover the hospital dues. Will you take it
and get on with it? You’ll be stone blind
in a year as it is.”
Mr. Pibble looked at the dull glow of the
lamp, at the shadow that was the doctor’s
face, at the background that was the warm,
brown books—the mighty books. Nothing
that they gave him took new life at his
hands; their thoughts fell through his mind
aimlessly as the years darkened ; he was a
wandering trespasser in their pleasant mead-
ows. Even their balanced, careful speech
had been denied him in the scramble of his
childhood and youth. But they were his
friends, his fine, courteous friends, almost
his only friends. Blind !
“Well, what about it. Pibble?”
Two things were left to Mr. Pibble—the
books and one other. In the tumbling fight
of the years, debt had had no part. His
place had been taken by many things, by
bitter struggle, by hunger, by cold, by many
makeshifts and anxieties; but debt himself
had not been there. If the books and the
light of day fell from Mr. Pibble and were
no more seen by him, at least it would stand
to the end that he owed nothing. He looked
at the books once again before he spoke.
“I can’t, doctor, thank you—thank you,
but I can’t.” *
“Why not?”
“I don’t owe anythin’ and I won’t.”
“But, you fool, wouldn’t you rather owe
me £lO than go blind?”
“It ain’t a question of which I’d rather
do, doctor; it’s what is fixed as right and
wrong. I couldn’t pay you back £lO if you
lent it me, so I won’t borrow it. What I’d
like to do ’as got to work from that.”
"Of all the fools —listen. Pibble! I don’t
care if you don’t pay me for a year—for
five years!”
“I couldn’t pay you in 20, doctor, as far
as I can see; and it’s that what tells me 1
can’t take it. You’ll excuse me talkin’ like
this, doctor, won’t you?’
“Of all the blithering”—Doctor O’Grad.v
scrambled out of his chair, put his hat on
his head and stormed to the door. “Think
it over, Pibble,” he growled as he went
through the shop.
Mrs. Pibble kept her head well below the
counter-level as he passed, which is not so
easv to do "when you are half-drunk and
weigh 20st. sober. She sampled the planted
gin for the fourth time, and fumbled up-
stairs, shedding maudlin tears for the words
she had overheard, for the young man who
came smiling to her long ago, for the years
between.
* * * *
“Well, Mrs. Pibble,” said Mr. Brown, in
his office in the vast Austral Palace boarding-
house, the pride of the ’Loo, “if I do it can
I trust you? You’re about the best cook in
Sydney, I know, and Mrs. Ramsden here is
about the worst; but there is that little fail-
ing. And with 30 tables in the dining-room
I couldn’t afford to have the best cook in
Christendom here at half-wages if tea wasn’t
strong enough for her till work was done.”
“You know me, Mr. Brown, and you know
Pibble; yon know that we’ve never, owed a
penny that wasn’t paid on the nail. As fer
a glass o’ beer one way or the other, did it
signify when you arst me to ’elp you out
last Christmas, with the ’ouse full of
theat’icals double-banked? Or when that
Melbourne lot come over for the Show, an’
you come to me as a favor to come in? Did
any of ’em go short? An’ not a meal five
minutes late. Yer know yer can trust me,
Mr. Brown.”
“All right, Mrs. Pibble, I’ll do it.” Mr.
Brown wrote a cheque for £lO, blotted it
and haryled it to Mrs. Pibble.
“When can you come in?” he said.
“This afternoon, for to-night’s dinner.”
“All right. You cook for me for five
weeks straight off, which I’ve just paid for
in advance. When the five weeks is up.
call in here, Mrs. Pibble, and we’ll talk over
the future. Good-bye.”
Mr. Pibble was peering at the Herald
summary as his wife came into the shop.
“ ’Ere, Albert,” she said, throwing the
cheque on the counter, “I ’eard you an’ doc-
tor last night, an’ I'm goin’ to the Palace
to cook for Brown for five weeks.”
The white eyes behind the heavy glasses
looked at the cheque and up at Mrs. Pibble.
As they rose, the deep blue of the past
flowed into their stony depths. Looking at
her they glowed, warmly and strongly, like
the lamps of his heart.
“I dunno what to say to you, my dear.
It means everything to me. My eyes”
“Oh, damn yer eyes.” said Mrs. Pibbh
cheerily, “let’s come an’ get some break-
fast.”
FRANCIS BRIEN.


J
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTIHCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland. Agents— HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
nfe ARE YOU v*
Ruptured
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cuinbe.some spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THA<T
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW: it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chatting leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft nibber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
849 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
LIVER-ISMS
The liver is the regulator of health. If the
liver is active and well, good health and happi-
ness prevail; but once you allow your liver to
get torpid and sluggish, life be-
comes a misery. Dyspepsia,
Indigestion, Biliousness
Constipation, Headache?
and Melancholy assail
you, resulting in l.ackof
energy, loss of mem-
ory and ill-health ;
but remember
Carter’s Little
Liver Pills touch
the liver and cure
all liver ills. Try them to-day and see how
much better you will be to-morrow. They
-ever fail. Children like them.
Small Pill—Small Dose—Small Price.
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
GENUINE must
bear signature
WRIGLEYS
/
■
mg
ivt*
IE
uioi
doublemjnt
:
5:
6
packet „.
for 3d.
The greatest value in
beneficial, long-lasting re-
freshment you can possibly
buy.
Keeps teeth clean and
breath sweet. Aids appetite
and digestion.
Get it wherever confections
are sold.
Made by
WM. WRIGL&Y JR. Prop. Ltd-
Rosebery, Sydney, N.S.W.
SEALED TIGHT rs KEPT RIGHT
92
F 3
■
ff
D
A
D
mmmj
LJ
a
T 7
pfR
'?
=== \J
y? —vj
r
o-. — A
rQ
o
tei
V.
»
X X
soo' |
X
LfiATu
<ING
OLGATES
Begin shaving with a Colgate’s
" Handy Grip” of your own.
Your dad will tell you this is
the right soap to make smooth,
creamy, soothing lather and
help you to a comfortable shave
without any after-smarting.
You will like the "Handy Grip”
as well as you have always liked
the Ribbon Dental Cream—and
will never wish to be without either.
I
only Refill Shaving Stick
Horlick’s Malted Milk contains
all requisite forms of nourish*
ment. That is what makes
Horlick’s so rich —so delicious.
If you have not yet tried Hor-
lick’s, there is a great treat ia
HQRUCK’S
I
mm
No Shonase. Ample SnppUe..
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wb Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard*
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders'
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIO.
68i PITT STREET, SIDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of Hie world.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
. should read the British Australasian,
6d. weekly —an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 115 High Holborn, London, W.G.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.


MANGROVIT
fl LEATHER
LTI
Solves Belting Problems
for every plant-owner who will take advantage
of it. It answers every requirement beca-ule
of its super gripping power and the firmness
that resists hard usage.
1«L US heIP y ° U With your transmission prob-
Mangrovite Belting' Ltd,
(Charles Ludowlci, Managing: Director)
w 9 a.?'? s , troet (Wynyard Square), Sydney ’
mA Btr * aK ?, : Gibbs, Bright &Co., Fremantle
A “ stra, *a: John Reid & Sons Ltd., Adelaide
Victoria and Tasmania: Wm. Crosby 1 Co
Melbourne.
rz
From tHe Standpoint
of Economy
—Reliability and Accuracy in Cutting at the Highest Speeds,
and Long Life, always use
Ultra Capital High-Speed Twist Drills
Leading Engineers, who demand the utmost efficiency, give preference to,
and always insist on having, these drills.
Stocked in ail sizes, with round or taper shanks.
Prices, etc., promptly supplied on request to Desk “A.”
THE EAGLE AND GLOBE STEEL CO. LTD.,
Makers of Ultra Capital Steel,
879-881 Kent St., Sydney. Cliff Street, Fremantle.
261 Latrobe St., Melbourne. John Reid and Nephews, Brisbane.
46 Boulder Boad, Kalgoorlie. Paul and Gray, Ltd., Newcastle.
Charles Atkins and Co., Adelaide.
Chemicals?
We always have large stocks on hand and our
prices are absolutely the lowest. Our stocks
include: —
Soda-Ash, Caustic Soda, Chloride of
Calcium, Sulphide of Sodium, Chloride
of Ammonium, Napthaline, Carbolic
Acid (98% pale sti’aw), Birohromate
Soda and Potash, French Chalk, Dex-
trine, Aniline Dyes, Hematine and
Fustic Extracts. Large quantities of
Whale, Cod and Herring Oil always on
band.
Write for prices and particulars NOW.
JAMES HARDIE & CO. LTD.,
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
’Phone 8458 (8 lines).
581-3 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
30 Currie Street, Adelaide,
REFRIGERATING AND
ICE-MAKING MACHINERY.
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNlNG—which is pertinent to the times
—their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions they can be
relied upon to give "CONSISTENT SERVICE." Their strong
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
We study your requirements and design the layout of your
plant, not only to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service.
AH
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR LTD., Alliance Building, 97 Pitt Street, Sydney.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth; and Auckland, N.Z.
•4/
L.A. Rowboat Motors
MAGNETO TYPE.
Horse-power 2; Bore of Cylinder 2 5-8
inches; Stroke of Piston 2% inches;
Weight 621 b.
A light, durable motor, made expressly for attach-
ing to fishing-boats, pleasure-boats, oanoes, et«.
Develops a speed from 6 to 8 miles per hour.
Special price, packed and delivered Free
on Boat or Bails, £25.
Correspondence invited.
D. 8 W. Chandler Pty. Ltd.,
Ironmongers and
Street, Fitzroy,
PUMPS -Good Pumps Only
We manufacture what is probably the most extensive and
varied line of Pumps listed by any Australian Manufacture*, and
can at the present time deliver all Standard Heavy Lines listed
We illustrate Heavy Side Bolt or Well Pumps. These are made
with valves as shown, ball valves er special valves te any specifi-
cation; they are supplied in all sizes, and are regularly listed
from 12in. to Bin. in diameter, by any stroke required. Other Pumps
manufactured include;—
BORE PUMPS, all sizes and strokes, any specification.
DOWNING’S Patent FOOLPROOF Artesian Deep Well
Cylinders.
BALIi Valve ARTESIAN DEEP WELD Cylinders.
PUMP CATALOGUE ON REQUEST.
CONTRACT WORK — Send Sp©c/f?cci#/ofl§
ALDERDICE LTD., Wamiambool
TUDOR ACCUMULATORS
for All Purposes.
THE PIONEER PLANTE PEAT£.
THE TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO. s LTD.
P.O. BOX 2550.
TELEPHONE: CITY 8931.
.
(Australasian Office)—
Cttlwulla Chambers,
CASTLEREAGH STREET SYDNEY.
DELCO-LIGHT
A complete Electric Light Power
Plant, suitable for Suburban and
Country Houses, Stations, Stores
Hospitals, schools of Arts, etc.
Kerosene
One Gallon of Kerosene
Will light 32 Lamps for 4)4 hours.
PULL PARTICULARS FROM SOLE AGENTS
N.S.W. & Victoria: WARBURTON, FRANK!.LTD.,
309 Kent Street, Sydney; 380 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: SMELLEB & CO. LTD., Brisbane.
Electricity for the Farm, with Power, too— a 3-h.p. Engine
that you can take anywhere for any machinery.
YOU can buy Electric Light Plants that “eat their head off,” so to speak, all the year
round. But the Fairbanks Morse Outfit is a practical farm outfits—giving the
s t?r ek eeper and plantation not only electric light everywhere by a snap
the switch, but you can see here that there’s an engine as well—a famous Tvne “Z”
with Throttling Governor, Pump Fuel Feed and other featuW whkh made this
engine known far and wide as “a wonder at the price.” The Fairbanks Morse
and Light Outfit consists of this 3-h.p. Engine, a ball-bearing Generator, Battery of 16
Cells ready charged, a high-grade Switchboard and Set of Instruments. It’s a real work-
f&JfiSUgg&SS,* ,tsdf ’ tWB -““-s
DANGAR, GEDYE (Q. CO. LTD..
9-13 Young* Street, Circular Quay, SYDNEY.
HART RA If A SOU I*TV., T.TD., 183-581 Boirkg Street mjnftvnw
LTD., 99 Eagle Street, BRISBANE.
JAS. WARD EE, LTD., Victoria Square West, ADELAIDE
MAEEOCH BROS., 52-54 William Street, PERTH
A- 6. WEBSTER A SONS, LTD., HOBART.
t
ssssd
“X;
j
t-i
' ! [
“rr-
mnnilaiDfinT
SKI
:
riSv-fT
PHENOMENAL RESULTS OBTAINED
On TIN, NEW VENTURE MILL, ARDLETHAN, N.S.W. WO I /l. 1 1/.
Random Samples, UNCLASSIFIED, taken under ordinary mill conditions every half-hour for eight hours, assays by Mr. Basil Turner.
Feed (including slimes)
Tads „ „
Middlings
Clean concentrates .. . .
.... 1.1 per cent]
.... .07 „ „ !
.... 65.7. „ „ J
EXTRACTION 93.6 per cent.
On WOLFRAM, WYMAH WOLFRAM MINE, N.S.W., .stays by Mr. Basil Turner, Sydney.
Feed 1.54 par cent.]
Clean concentrates 63.53 „ „
Second 7.30 „ ~
Tails
.034
■EXTRACTION 97.8 per cent.
On COPPER, MOUNT CANNINDAH COPPER
Th« “ Curvilinear” gives ns trouble at all, It eaves tfao mm sUnee tagpm mOahM* aeadOv mmd sKeeettmidv ©lean with tailing as whit* »»«w
not yet available. Many will smile incredulously at tmt^hey iSfaSf wdiieh’Jm be verified. \vt kof
reputation by publishing statements unless we knew them to be true. ®
Manufactured snly by the
Inventors and Patentees—
N. GUTHR.IDGE LTD., 10-12 George Street, Camperdown, SYDNEY.
