

DEWAR’S —The Spirit of Contentment.
R. G. WATKINS «S£ CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 K.en.t Stireot, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining [Requisites,
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
wumm
"mi
wrzzrm
iitmlfi UlUlllli
rttfiiiiliH.
MLmwu/i/iJ
-*ii>
MUlinum
N S W- MONT de PIETE D & I C9T LIMITED,
74 Castlereagß 5L.,74. Sydney.
"ADVANCES -
lON ALL CLASSES
I OF SECURITY
’WITHOUT POSSESSION
at 215*17 Swanston St.,flelb.. 40 Adelaide St., Brisbane.
29 King St,Newcastle. 186 Castlereaqh 5t., & 159 George St. West, Sydney. ___
“ £200,000 ‘Phone City 932s .
Gesies'zi/ J&stJtacres 9 .
Ztustsee JtejTSie££
—uuumuu ™
ffIVWUWIU! nuilllllllll
::r
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not be laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete D. and I. Co. Ltd.”
A City Sewage System
for Modern Homes."
You simply cannot afford to take chances
with the disposal of your sewage. For
the sake of your own and your children’s
health, study the merits of the
Montgomerie-Neilson
Sewage Disposal System
This modern system does away with the
old-fashioned cesspool or tin-pan style of
W.C.—the greatest sources of disease the
country knows.
The sewage is treated so perfectly that
absolutely no odor arises even on the
hottest days.
Over 600 are In use in N. S. W'ales
alone, and the system has the O.K. of
experts the world over.
Send for free booklet, which gives facts
in detail.
MONTGOMERIE-NEILSON
Oxidising Sewage Disposal,
51) Young Street, SYDNEY
’Phone City 8976.
Argue^^_
'AW’
“life
mk
pFLE
s i\
'■6
m
' i\
Nothing
to Arcuc
About!"
Ml
•%, s
"Are the Best
"■■‘ii
S
#
jr
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
Junket,
GEES32E
for INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awardee] 130 First-Class Prize Medals,
WOLFFS
SCHNAPPS
Wi
Di
1
tn
V
1
IB
WWYOO
WWVCC
For ROOFS
and all iron surfaces.
Protect your iron from the weather and all corrosive
intluences by using the dependable Pabeo Paint,
manufactured solely for that purpose.
Iron has become so high-prieed that its protection
is more than ever of paramount importance.
Save the cost of replacement by using Pabeo Paint.
Illustrated booklet and full particulars from
The Paraffine Companies Inc. (F. M. Prince, Aus-
tralasian Manager), Challis House. Sydney.
i
f
1
I
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING CO
GRANVILLE,
N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS.
Railway Rolling Stock of all Descriptions. Road IVletal and Farm Waggons. Portable Steam Engines
Sugar Mill Machinery. Heavy iron &. Malleable Castings. Cast-iron Porceiain-Enamelied Baths,Sinks, etc.
Arthur
<s<o
MACmNFRY.
Head Office
SYDNEY.
Build “Leplastriers” Long-lasting,
Modern, Machinery-made Roads.
ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH
Famous Brands of
HIGH-SPEED STEEL & DRILLS
“T.Y.R.” “A.W. PREMIER.”
manufactured by
Sir W. G. ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH & CO. LTD.
MANCHESTER, ENGLAND.
Sole Australian Representatives:
8 Co. Ltd.,
115 PUT STREET, SYDNEY.
506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
LARGE STOCKS CARRIED.
PLEASANT AND
A TRUE ANTISEPTIC-
•xsaa s.vnv'Hisnv
3±SVd HJ.OOJ.
The Bulletin
Vol. 40.—N0. 2052.]
[Thursday, June 12, 1919.
PRICE 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


BEFORE THE MIRROR
By “JEANNETTE.”
Ihese are, undoubtedly, days of exceptional nervous strain for one and
uu of us. Anxiety, with its beauty-destroying- influence, is casting its shadow
over the lives of many of us women, and while perhaps a few—the more
stoical among us—can avoid worrying over past or prospective events, we
may all, with a little care and forethought, succeed in preventing the result
ot worry from being noticeable in our appearance. To these fortunate
tew this little chat will, however, be as interesting and instructive as to
those who stand in real need of help i n toilet matters, and may be the
means of bringing to their notice some hitherto unknown method of retain-
mg or regaining that beauty of face and figure which is the birthright of
every woman. Some of the ingredients mentioned below are, at present, not
generally known to the public, but any good chemist will usually be found to
have a small quantity in stock.
Freckles and How to Cure Them.—lt is always
those with the finest and fairiest skins who
freckle most easily, but this knowledge is poor
comfort when the face is disfigured with these
ugly little blemishes. To prevent the forma-
tion of freckles a wash should be applied to
the face which will form a shield from the
rays of the sun. A simple and inexpensive one
can be made up at home by dissolving an
ounce of cleminite in four tablespoonfuls of
hot water. Shake the bottle, and when cold
apply to the face and allow to dry on the
skin. If this is done every day. renewing the
application whenever the face is washed, and
a little mercolised wax rubbed into the skin
every night, freckles will not make their
appearance, no matter how hot the sun. To
remove freckles which have already formed,
apply the wax every night, rub it well into
the skin of the face and neck and leave it on
till the morning. Then wash off, using Pilenta
soap and warm water.
To Reduce a Double Chin.—To reduce a double
chin, give hard, firm massage every night with
mercolised wax, stroking the flesh firmly back-
wards from the chin towards the lower por-
tion of the neck. Do this every night, and in
the morning bathe with cold water and rub
into the skin a little parsidium jelly. This
treatment will strengthen the flabby tissues
and restore the contour of the face. Occasion-
ally a double chin is due to stooping over
books or work, but generally it is the result
of putting on weight. When the latter is the
case a few clyuol berries, eaten regularly every
day, will greatly assist in reducing the super
fluous flesh. A glass of hot water should be
sipped after each meal
The Hair—To Increase the Growth. —To arrest
an undue falling of the hair and increase the
growth, scalp-massage and the application of
a good tonic is absolutely necessary. Part the
hair in the centre, and, starting at the fore-
head, massage for at least ten minutes. Then
apply a tonic. A simple and inexpensive one
can be made up at home by mixing one ounce
of boranium (which can be bought at the
chemist’s) with a quarter of a pint of bay
rum. Add the boranium to the bay rum, allow
1:0 stand for half an hour, then strain and add
sufficient water to make half a pint. Dab
amongst the roots of the hair with a soft
sponge.
Superfluous Hair.—Dark-complexioned women
are far more frequently troubled with a
growth of superfluous hair than those, with
fair skins, and at, the first sign of these objec-
tionable hairs steps should be taken to remove
them, or they will develop into a strong growth
which will take a very long time to destroy.
A little powdered pheminol applied to this
growth will remove the unsightly blemish,
destroying it permanently if the hairs be but
few. Two or more applications may be neces-
sary, if the growth be unusually strong, but
about one ounce of pheminol should be suffici-
ent for the most stubborn case. Pheminol can
be obtained at the chemist’s, and a little
powdered alum should be obtained at the
same time for dusting the skin before applying
the pheminol.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
TO DARKEN THE EYEBROWS (L.M.). —
There is no dye which I could recommend as
“safe,” but if you rub a little mennaline into
the eyebrows and at the roots of the,eyelashes
regularly every night it will darken them
naturally, and will also increase the growth
of the eyelashes.
TO REDUCE WEIGHT (SADIE).—Yes, your
weight and measurements are certainly more
than they should be for your height, aud I
quite agree that being so stout makes you look
old. I am pleased to be able to tell you of a
quick, easy and pleasant way to reduce both.
Get a small quantity of clynol berries from
the chemist’s and take one after each meal,
three times a day. Weigh yourself after one
month’s treatment, and you will be delighted
with the result.
TO KEEP THE HAIR FAIR (DORIS).—If
you shampoo your hair regularly with stallax
granules it will prevent it from turning dark.
One teaspoon of stallax is sufficient for a
shampoo, and an original packet will make
from 25 to 30 Stallax keeps
indefinitely. [4
TO IMPROVE A DULL, MUDDY COM-
PLEXION (D. 8.). —Your complexion is dull
and muddy-looking because it needs thorough
cleansing and renewing of the outer cuticle.
To do this get a tin of mercolised wax, and
with the tips of the fingers rub a little gently
into the skin, going over the entire face and
neck. Leave the wax on all night and in the
morning wash it off with a good soap (you
will find Pilenta excellent). In a month’s time
you will notice a most surprising improve-
ment. (2) Liquid pergol will prevent the
excessive perspiration of which you complain.
(3) Nothing can be done.
TO ARREST GREYNESS (FLO).—You are
indeed far too young to go grey yet. Get
about two ounces of concentrate of tamma-
lite and mix it with three ounces of bay rum.
Dab this on the hair and amongst the roots.
It will soon make matters all right.
TO WHITEN A BROAVN NECK (W.K.).—To
whiten your neck use jettaline. Get a tube of
this from the chemist’s and rub a little well
into the skin of the neck; leave it on till next
morning. Do this regularly every night for
three or four weeks and you will find that the
skin will become beautifully clear and white.
/> v%.
. /*.£-■ r-')> ..
*
fS»
y/j
fs
: t ; -
Your Mirror
will give
the pleasing 7
assurance that
your Complexion
is' what It shoufw
be If you use
TETLOW’S
FACE POWDER
It imparts a delicate bloom to the
Complexion, so pure that it will
not harm the most sensitive skin.
Soli In Vive Tints
White. Cream. Pink. Flesh and brunette,
tv all Stores. Chemists, Perfumers and
First C/ass Drdj>ery Houses
Per
ENGLISH PRICE
box.
Wholesale Dislribuling Agenls:-
Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS.. LTD.,
Sydney.
Messrs. WASHINGTON H. SOUL,
PATTINSON & CO., Sydney.
Messrs.. ANTHONY HORDERN AND
SONS LTD., Sydney.
THE -AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.,
'Sydney.
/LONDON WHOLESALE tOEMTj!-
HENRYC. QUELCH SCO.,
4 & 5. Ludgate Sq.. London, Eng.
II
m
For Bad Breath
Those who find their
breath bad in the morning; a
bad taste in the mouth and a
furred tongue, will find Pink-
ettes—the new laxative—
an excellent remedy. They
correct the stomach condi-
tions which cause symptoms;
regulate the liver and remove
constipation. Pinkettes act
without causing sickness or
griping, or after effects of
strong purgatives.
1/- per bottle at all dealers.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “The Bulletin.’
The Dr. Williams' Medicine Co.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
ALL AUSTRALIA A'ls visiting Loudon
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
cited to visit the British Austbalasian
Heading Room at the Offices, 115 High Ilol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use tha
telephone, and obtain information without
■barge.
HUDSON’S ECiri)€Qti)ol JUJUBES
1/6 a Tin. For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats and the Prevention of Consumption.
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
§3
E
0. The Bronchial
Tubes of a Dis-
sected Lung.
D. The Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
HARMFUL THROAT TABLETS.
Throat Tablets and Lozenges containing Formalin
(Formaldehyde). Wiley, in the United States, in-
vestigated the effects of small doses of Formalin
(Formaldehyde) given with milk on 12 men during
15 days. Burning in the throat, itching rash, and
loss in body weight were observed.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
contain no Formalin, Cocaine or other harmful or
poisonous poisonous drug.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL CO., LTD.,
SYDNEY. [II
The Red Page
Saint Columcille and Copyright
_ Vmong the best of all the saints Colum-
cille, or Columba as lie is more frequently
called, can fairly take his place. Although
his greatest work was done in Scotland, he
is perhaps the .most typical of all Irish
churchmen; and just because he was self-
exiled from his native land, he makes a per-
petual; appeal to every other Irish exile. On
the rock at Gar tan, where the house stood
hi which he was born, the people of Done-
gal who are leaving for other lands still
come to sleep the night before setting sail
from Ireland forever. Columba went away
to ms rock of lona and never returned,
lough all his years were filled with yearn-
for the home land.
Curiously enough, Columba’s reason for
Irel . ail(l was directly connected
with a question of copyright—probably the
only question of the kind that ever caused
bloodshed and the first legally decided in the
Dntish Islands. Saint Finnian of Moville
had brought from Rome a highly-prized
manuscript, which is conjectured to have
been a copy 0 t the Psalms in what is now
hnn'lLiV he Vulgate version. Columba
bon owed the manuscript and made a copy of
it. h innian claimed the copy and, when
t.olnmljii rcfusod to give it up re f erred the
case to Diarmuid, the High King of Ireland.
Diarmuid searched the Brehon law, which
was the established code of the whole coun-
ij, and could find nothing there which had
any bearing upon books or their ownership.
. . last, after long delays, he gave his de-
.Star 1 ??*. and best as well as the
®*.“ iest: V !t:h every book its son-book, as
every cow her calf.” Columba, who
£-• himself renounced his claim to' the High
Kingship in order to continue his religious
work, refused to accept the verdict. With
the aid of his two cousins, Fergus and
Domhnall, lie raised a great army; and in
the battle which followed the High King
was defeated with the loss of 3000 men.
It was this victory which caused Columba
to go into exile. lie said it was his duty
to cross into Scotland and convert one Piet
to Christianity for every man who had been
slain in the battle of Benbulbin. It was a
mg penance; but he far more than carried
it out.
Columba’s strangely winsome personality
has come down to us through all the years.
It was in 090 that he left Derry ; but we can
s ? e tb® big m . an yet as he lived and moved
about the religious houses he founded. Tall
and powerful, with crisp, curling fair hair,
broad ot forehead and with flashing, imperious
grey eyes, he fills up every hour with work
that is not devoted to prayer. He toils
with nis hands, too. He is out among his
ploughmen early and late; he busies him-
self in cooking meals; he writes far into
the night; he has a voice clear and resonant
that can be heard 3500 paces away, and that
is yet sweeter than the voices of the bards.”
f° wonder that half Pictish Scotland vickled
to the persuasion of such a man. He was
the protector of the olaves, or poets, of Ire-
land; and it was on his word, long after the
saiQ t had gone into exile, that their place in
the State was fully secured and recognised.
But that, after all, was natural enough; for,
much as Columba wrote, he did not leave a
single page of prose. All his work from
first to last was in verse—Latin or Irish
D.M.W.
Poetic Exaggeration
Bartlett Aclamson appears to define poetic
license fB. l/5/’l9) as relating only to the
abuse of liberties concerning rhymes. It
also covers the gentle art of exaggeration,
both in prose and verse, and in many in-
stances is quite allowable. Brady sings that
“the girls that live at Hobart Town would
drive a dead man crazy.” That, as Euclid
would have remarked, would be impossible.
Yet it is expressive arm forceful and quite
allowable; it is poetic license. A pqet is
allowed to be a liar, in the interests of art.
About girls, too, in Jessie Mackay’s “Folk
Song” it is soberly stated that “they are
stringing her words like pearls to throw to
the dukes and earls.” If this was tendered
as evidence in a breach-of-promise suit the
gentleman on the Bench would throw an
armful of torts and hard cases at the wit-
ness. Yet it is beautifully convincing in
poem form. Poetic license is indispensable
to poets and must not be played with in a
heedless manner by reformers.
As to loose rhymes, certainly a lot of im-
provement is waiting to be made. The
“wind” example is one of the most glaring
Evidently in olden days such words as
“thinned” and “skinned” and “pinned” were
pronounced “thinnM” and “skinned and
‘pinnfcd.” Under such circumstances it is
hard to see what the poor poets had to
rhyme with “wind,” outside of a limited list
of proper names. So they rose to the occa-
sion by giving the moving air a long “j ”
And who can blame them? The blame be-
longs to the present-day pedants who insist
on rhymes modelled on the spelling of words
According to these rigid disciplinarians’
“tomatoes” rhymes with “potatoes.”
It is time the jugglers with rhymes formed
a Union of Defiant Bards, and rhymed by
sound. By the time the authorities had
turned up their well-thumbed rhyming dic-
tionaries the bards would have collected the
cash and let the credit go. Let “rioting”
rhyme with “quieting”; and if “galloping”
and “enveloping” come into the straight to-
gether, let them go for their lives, if they
want to. Some idiots would want to give
them a walloping, but that is a senile idea.
“Watering” and “quartering” are another
good double. After all, verse is meant to
be music, not the collection or dissection of
words.
When we come to false rhymes, the only
thing to do is to burn the perpetrators for
heretics. A fakir who would try to rhyme
“chime” with “mine” —and it is done—has
no more ear for music than the drunk who
lay in the gutter at midnight and heard the
clocks strike thirteen.
"WILL LAWSON.
When a Man’s Married
Here and there an aboriginal race, living
closer to nature than the rest, acknowledgec
the woman to be the head of the family
Christopher and Columbus, written by
lady who prefers always to be known merely
as “the author of ‘Elizabeth and her Ger
man Garden,’ ” might have been designed a
a treatise to prove that that w T as the righ
system. “Elizabeth” was a Sydney gir
who married a minor German potentate and
as she suggested in “The Caravaners,” dicin'
find her husband’s countrymen very pleasan
people. And that was a long time before
the war. Then her German husband died
Whether there were any children this com
mentator doesn't remember; but, anyhow
Elizabeth knows enough of both England anc
Germany to be aware of the kind of life :
child of hers would have had during the pas
four or live years. Christopher and Colum
bus is the charming story built upon that
knowledge.
Of course the names of the twin girls
weren’t really Christopher and Columbus
One was Anna-Rose and the other Anna-
Felicitas. Their German father and Eng-
lish mother having both died, an English
uncle took them; and when he decided to
get rid of them by sending them to America
with £2OO and a couple of “introductions’
in their pockets, they naturally became
Christopher and Columbus. But America
was only a last resort. They tried many
things before that.. Being thoroughly miser-
able, knowing they weren’t wanted, they
even advertised in the Times :
Energetic sisters of belligerent ancestry but unim-
peachable sympathies wish for any sort of work
consistent with respectability. No objection to
being demeaned.
No one answered the advt. except a society
in London for helping alien enemies in dis-
tress. “Charity,” said Anna-Rose, .turning
up her nose. “And fancy thinking us
enemies,” said Anna-Felicitas. “Us! While
mummy” Her eyes idled with tears.
On the Atlantic they made the acquaint-
ance of Mr. Twist, who had been Red Cross-
ing in Europe; and Mr. Twist, who luid
made a fortune out of a teapot that won’t
drip at the spout, became interested in them.
At first they mistook his motherly solicitude
tor pity.
“It’s because you’ve got into your head that we’re
Germans because of our father,” said Anna-Felicitas.
But what s a father when all’s said and done ?”
Well,” said Mr. Twist, “one has to have him.”
. B ut having got him he isn’t anything like as
important as a mother,” said Anna-Hose.
“One hardly sees one’s father,” said Anna-Felici-
tas. Hes always busy. He’s always thinking of
something else.” __
. “Of course,” said Anna-Rose, “one’s” father’s
intentions are perfectly sound and good, but his
intentions seem to wander. Whereas one’s
mother” ■
Things don’t go at all well with the intro-
ductions Christopher and Columbus take to
America ; and Mr. Twist, who is unmarried,
by the way, finds himself with two young
female alien enemies on his hands. One,
however—-not the one he has fallen in love
with—becomes engaged to marry a young
English officer who is recuperating in Cali-
fornia ; whereupon the other one is dis-
covered in great distress: —
“Oh, I’ve lost her—lost her”——
“Lost her because she’s marrying?”
“Lost her—lost her,” sobbed Anna-Rose.
Come, come now,” said Mr. Twist helplessly.
Oh,” she sobbed, looking - at hint out of her
piteous eyes, “has nobody thought of it but me?.
Columbus hasn’t—l know she hasn’t from what
she said. She’s too happy to think. But haven’t
you ■ thought—haven’t you seen—that she’ll be Eng-
lish now—really English and go away from me to
England with him—and I —l can’t go to England—
because I’m still—l’m still —an alien enemy—and
Bo I ve lost her—lost her—lost my own twin”
Whereupon Mr. Twist does the proper thing,
and by merely marrying Anna-Rose makes
an American of her. Marriage, as Eliza-
beth of the German Garden knows, can have
consequences unthought of by Tom and
Lizzie who have lived in the same township
all their lives.
The Roving Editors
W. J. Sowden, of the Adelaide Register,
was one of the very few Australian editors
Who wrote for their papers a connected
account of their journey to Europe last year.
There was a difference of opinion about the
propriety of publishing such articles. From
S. Australia, for instance, it was possible
to take only one man; which meant that
two of the Adelaide dailies had no direct
representative. The question of ethics might
have been argued all across the Pacific had
the Eleven Apostles (Frank Anstey was
waiting on the other side) been a young
men’s debating society. Editors, however,
are gentlemen who know that their contem-
poraries are right only by either accident or
plagiarism; so there was presumably no
serious discussion. One Jove said “We
will,” and another thundered “We will not,”
and that was the end of the matter. William
Jove Sowden said “We will,” and The
Roving Editors (W. K. Thomas and Co.) is
the collected result.
It is a pleasantly told story of a look
at the surface of so many things that a real
study of any one was almost impossible.
Doubtless this accounts for the fact that
the author rarely ventures upon criticism.
As the youngster sent to “do” a theatre long
ago discovered, it is safest to praise when
one isn’t sure. So there are only nice words
even for officers who could scarcely have
been less fitted for their posts.
On one matter of more importance the
author has a suggestive word or two. “There
can be no reason for the impression,” he
says, “that Field-Marshal Sir Douglas Haig
is not over partial to Australians; but some
officers say that their notions of discipline
conflict somewhat with his; and also that
the large disproportion of desertions among
our boys in comparison with those of the
regular troops worries him. Desertion by
the Imperial soldier may be punished with
death at the discretion of the responsible
officer, but only imprisonment can be in-
flicted upon the Australian.” That the Field-
Marshal would have altered that if he could
is certain. That there wasn’t the ghost of
a chance of the Australian Parliament doing
AT ™ old • bl " ntl J- b y .Frank Anstey,
M.H.R. lhe simple fact was that, apart
(Continued on page 24.)


JL
we
4E
mm
m
1!
9
mi
mm
o;ie:
HI
ifi
L
I B
m
§
iltm
m
m g
111 »1
ill m
9
Iliiil
n
*■»
*5
»L
lxaiT
i ta
;v. «<
:-
hm
1X9165
mm
$
?/■
t t
m
til
M.
DM6]
IXSQtI
1X8872
■tssa^Sia.
Anthony Horderns
r/"'i •■■;;;
7cL>,if ■ • ::, I
SYDNEY
SPECIAL Cgxr VALUES
AmTIOHY HORDERNS
A WARM Winter Coat is absolutely
*'■ necessary —health considerations,
quite apart from comfort, demand this
protection. In Anthony Horderns’
Fashion Showrooms are offered
these Winter necessities in varied
styles—smartly-cut Winter Coats
that are at once fashionable and
warm, making a fitting finish
to your Winter outfit.
We pay
Carriage
throughout
the State on
all articles of
wear; to the
nearest port
on inter-State
orders.
IX9l6s.—Smart, All-Wool Tweed Coat, with large,
becoming Fur Collar and Cuffs, new patch pockets, and wide
belt at waist. In warm Grey or Heather Mixtures —
£5/19/6
IXBl4.—Practical Coat of Smart Diagonal Tweed,
The large-pointed Collar and Cuffs have inlay of Velour Cloth
to tone; widely belted at waist. In Fawn, Bottle, Navy, or
Grey Mixtures 95/ -
1X8972. —Warm Winter Coat in Soft, All-Wool
Check Tweed, set-in sleeves with tinted cuffs, large-shaped
collar and revers, trimmed piped button-holes and buttons.
Finished at waist with belt. In Smart Grey or Dull Green
Check Mixture 75/-
1X504. —Comfortable Coat of Black Pony Cloth,
with handsome Fur Collar and Cuffs, and smartly finished at
waist with belt 95/-
1X456. —Smart Coat of Plain Black Mohair,
with large, square, convertible Collar, inset sleeves,
with Tab Cuffs and smart belt at waist, ornamented
. buttons 69/6


Manufacturers!
For Your New Building' use
RE-INFORCED CONCRETE
The Building' Material of the Ag'e.
n
m
Chimney 190 ft. high. Air Drift and Shafts. First Storey of Coal Screening Building and Gantries.
FOR HEBBURN COLLIERIES LTD . /VEW PIT, WESTON , N.S.W.
THE KEYNOTE
of Concrete Construction is
PERMANENCE.
This, coupled with the facts that concrete work eliminates
all maintenance charges, and that it can be adapted to any
form of building construction at cost little greater than the old-
fashioned, expensive-in-upkeep type of building, places it right
ahead in the foremost rank of constructional materials to-day.
Our Indented Steel Re-inforcing Bars, rolled in Australia by G. 8 C. Hoskins Ltd., are used
in all the Government Wheat Silos in N.S.W.
We shall be glad to discuss any building proposition with you or with your architect or engineer.
Use Concrete for Buildings, Tanks, Silos, Chimneys, Reservoirs, Floors, Retaining Walls, etc.
Write for our book, “Reinforced Concrete in Australasia.
William Adams ® Co. Ltd
175 Clarence Street. SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE: 521-533 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE: 96 Ctirrie Street.
BRISBANE: Cr. Edward and Mary Streets.
PERTH: 33 King Street.


KITZ’S
CIDER
For Your
Health’s Sake
You cannot help but get
to love Cider, for combined
with ita pleasing, exhil-
arating, drinking qualities
are the highest health
benefits. Health a n d
pleasure are then the dual
privilege of all partakers
of the luxurious, clear ALWAYS
KITZ CIDER.
GOOD,
AT STORES, HOTELS, CLUBS
AND CAFES,
Baby Bottles, Quarts and Pints.
AGENTS—
SYDNEY: Tucker- & Co. Ltd., Caldwell’s
Wines Ltd.
BRISBANE: Burns, Philp & Co.
TOWNSVILLE: Burns, Philp & Co.
CAIRNS: Burns, Philp & Co.
GERALDTON: A. 11. Mountain 4: Co.
ROCKHAMPTON: J. M. Headrick & Co.
ADELAIDE: AV. P. Auld & Sons Ltd.
PERTH: Philp Coyle.
HOBART: Ferguson Co.
LAUNCESTON: John McKenzie & Co.
SAUCE
(The New Sauce )
is pure and
wholesome—
and possesses great
digestive properties
Be sure and ask your
Grocer for
H.P.
V
**■ YOU
CAN MAKE
£2O
WEEKLY!
without
experience by
showing
PICTURES
We sell complete Moving Picture Out
fits, including Biograph Machine, Light
and Films, FROM £25 UP WARDS by EASY
INSTALMENTS. No matter what coun
trv you live in, you can have one. SHOW
MEN, write for our special list and terms
500,000 FEET OF FILM AT id. A FOOT
Send To-Day for Free Catalog
It shows how to start a first class Picture
Show by paying a small deposit, and then
weekly instalments.
WORLD’S BIOGRAPH CO.
110 Bathurst St., Sydney, N.S.W.
*
Jcti ||ti?
&dv<xticn\Q *2)cars. ] i&Hil£i
'Restore
mi ii
KB
or b. AiLkiil
c?
w
Sold by
Stationers and
J e w e lie r s
Everywhere.
Australian Prices:
Safety Pattern
with slip ■ on
cap from 15/-
Standard Pat-
ternwith slip-on
cap from 12/6
Illustrated
Catalogue sent
Post Free on
request.
You can have a “Swan” that
will suit you better than any
other pen you are using.
Every person’s handwriting is peculiar. Every-
one feels that only one type of pen point will
suit his own style of writing. After obtaining
the point he likes, he becomes so attached to
his pen that he cannot write without it. No
other pen will serve his purpose.
WAN
Get one to-day and it becomes in a few days
not A fountain pen but YOUR pen—a writing
instrument peculiarly your own.
79 & 80. High Holborn, London, Eng.
Manchester; Paris, Zurich, Toronto, &c. Sydney— (Wholesale only),
225 a, George Street. London Factory—l 9-329. Weston
Street, S.E. Associate House—Mabie, Todd & Co.,
Inc., New York and Chicago.
Australian Branch:
J. A. BURKE, 6 Primrose Buildings. 255 a George Street, Sydney, „
iHOHBOCKSEyMORRQCKSES’ HORROCKSE :
n>RROC KSES' RORROCKSER' HORROC KSES' K
«aa»xBKd^
HORROCKSES’
£
sag
;v:
m ro
IN USE
ALL OVER ThE WORLD
AWARDED THE CERTIFICATE OF THE
INCORPORATED INSTITUTE OF HYGIENE
DRAWS FROM THE BLOOD
THE POISONS
which cause Bad Legs, sore Feet, Car-
buncles, Boils,Varicose Ulcers, Bunions,
Eczema, Piles, etc., and those arising from
Insect and Alosquito Bites.
The Proprietors of Grasshopper Ointment
have an absolute confidence in its unsur-
pas ed merits. They know it to be a safe
a id perf ct cure for all skin and blood ail-
ments; and the va t number of testimonials
received prov ■it to be. Grassh pper Oint-
ment positively draws the po ons which pro-
<iu e these maladies out of the system As
an aperient, liver medicine and blood purifier,
tne Grasshopper Pills are equally effective,
and should be taken in conjunction with the
Ointment. Sold by all Drug Stores and
Chemists throughoui the Commonwealth.
BRITISH
AND BEST
YELLOW
METAL
PEN
GOLDEN
WATTLE
MADE BY
- MACNIVEN 8c -
CAMERON LTP
BIRMINGHAM & EDINBURGH
" THEY COME AS A BOON & A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL 4 THE WAYERLEY PEN. 1
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Cento run.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since 15»6. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLICHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England
Insist on “Singleton's”—refuse all substitutes.
EXCLUSIVE STYLES
in
Gent.’s 8 Ladies’ Coats
MADE IN ANGOLAS and
HOMESPUNS.
Also in the CELEBRATED
BURBERRY GABARDINE.
PRICES FROM £6/10i-
HUNT’S,
314 George Street,
Sydney.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Mile from Border-town.
The wind came shrieking up the hill.
I heard it echo sharp and shrill
Like neigliings of forgotten steeds
That Memory through the midnight speeds.
And, looking out upon the night,
I saw a fugitive alight.
He shook his bridle reins in mirth
And tightened up his saddle-girth.
“Come dowm,” he whistled cheerily,
“Come down and ride away wflth me.
The mountain ways are ours to skim
And stream and ford the colt can swim.
I’ve put a ribbon on my hair.
Will any hear the creaking stair?
My foot is on the stirrup bright.
He’s kissed my lips and bosom white.
Now up and over! How he flies!
The gateway gleams behind our eyes.
Hold tight! Hold tight! We ride with death
If once we pause to catch a breath.
“A mile, a mile from Bordertown” —
Ride hard! My brothers track us dowm.
“A mile, a mile and you shall be
The queen of highwaymen and me !”
The wind came shrieking up the hill.
I heard it echo sharp and shrill,
Like neighings of forgotten steeds
That Memory through the midnight speeds ;
And, looking out upon the night.
I saw' the 'gallows stark and white.
Ah, God! the body swinging there!
Was that a step upon the stair?
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.
Emblem.
Thistle from the Darebin,
Know ye rocks a-glisteu
Where the creek runs out and in
All the season through?
Heard ye song so sweet and thin
That the fairies listen.
You that woke by Darebin—
Thistle, thistle blue?
It was sweet by Darebin,
June or bright December.
Green and gold upon the whin
Playing peek-aboo;
Scented drift of pursekin. . . .
Say do you remember,
You that come from Darebin—
Thistle, th’stle blue?
There’s a dell by Darebin—
Ah, the happy trysting!
Ah, the mystic wayside inn
Hid from common view'!
Love to spend and time a-spin,
Wealth beyond the listing—
Saw ye such by Darebin,
Thistle, thistle blue?
VICTORIA.
YEELAMAN.
Ego.
HUons ago, out of the Where and Why,
A speck of dust was blown, and I was I,
While from a strange, ineffable delight,
A spark aglow, flying through Space and
Night,
Directed by unerring destiny,
Transfused my soulless dust with memory!
I have a recollection free as air,
And yet I cannot answer why this care
Galled Life was thrust upon me for a span
So brief and futile, and of such a plan
That, with the things I leave undone or do,
The curse of Eve in Eden should renew!
Tf I who see could only guide my soul
Rudderless, heading for an unknown goal
As a small craft with bending, broken sail
Scuds in affright before a soughing gale.
Would I not steer it back to whence it
came —
That atom of the dust which sprang to
flame,
And. flaming, knew not which was Life or
Death.
But cheated by the ecstasy of breath,
Was swift to have, and hold, and taste, and
see
This tragic rapture of Reality?....
Ah, should I turn me to my dust-brown
peace
That memory might sleep, and I might cease?
N.S.W.
LOLA GORNALL.
The Great Adventure.
I hear the song of teeming wars,
Of wings that rake the skies.
Of deeds when loud destruction roars
And fierce red enterprise.
, I say no word, my heart well knows
Where, under frayed, green walls
Of that old garden’s labyrinth, goes
My dear, new love beneath the rose,
While true adventure calls.
There’s danger here. Pale death may show
At times his lean, blind face.
Along the path where lilies glow
Sweeps by the eager chase —
The tingling fear, the courage high,
Half evil, all divine.
Sweet currents of wild thoughts and sky
That in her soul’s deep chambers ply.
And dance to life in mine.
The glory that the hero feels,
Who flouts a hundred swords.
The passion where the dreadnought reels,
The vehemence of hordes
Who sweep to splendid victories.
And reive an empire’s pride,
The finding in fair, lilting seas
Of faery lands of gold—all these
Has love, and love beside!
VICTORIA.
E. D.


Keep the Home Tyres Turning'.
Buy PERDRIAU Tyres.
Made in
Australia.
IT is vitally important to us as a nation to support our local industries.
Every shilling spent on Australian-made goods helps to support an
Australian worker, and to strengthen our national position. Every
shilling spent on foreign goods helps to support a foreign worker and
to weaken our national position by building up business for our Non-
Australian competitors. Therefore, it behoves every good Australian to
do his bit by keeping his money in the country.
30 x 3| are guaranteed for
4000 miles to Ford Owners.
Perdriau Tyres are obtainable from your local Garage or from
the Manufacturers :—
Price List of Perdriau Motor Tyres.
STANDARD SIZES.
STANDARD SIZES.
AMERICAN SIZES.
GUARANTEED FOR 3000 MILES
as per conditions appearing in our printed Price List.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. Ltd., 270 George St., Sydney, and all States.
SEND FOB PRIVATE TRUSS
PAMPHLET— FREE.
The Real
TRUSS
Exaggeration does not enter into our claims on
the merits of DENYER’S ELASTIC TRUSS.
It is designed to give a proper fitting, full and
comfortable support—a support that will hold
you under all conditions and relieve you of
anxiety and worry.
In this respect we claim that DENYER’S
ELASTIC TRUSS has proved its efficiency—it is
to-day a boon to thousands of Ruptured persons.
It is famed from end to end of Australia. Get
one to-day.
Single 20/-, Double 27/6
DENYER BROS.,
Makers of Trusses, Abdominal
Belts and Artificial Limbs,
281 George Street,
SYDNEY.
tnrniiu)|ni|||i|||iniininnnni
The Jogs of
Motoring
Are intensified if lunch is taken with
you. Spread the cloth wherever pour
fancy pleases, and if a tin of—
“ Rex”
Camp Pie
is taken you can start off with a fine
appetising meat course.
“Rex” Camp Pie is all ready to ent
from the can—even to a beautiful
jelly.
It is good satisfying fare, made of
choicest meats, cooked and flavored
in the incomparable “ Rex ” way.
Eat it with salad or slice thin for
sandwiches—it's great either way.
Always keep a tin at home for emer-
gencies. Sold everywhere.
TO GROCERS.—Your customers read these
announcements. _ They use “ Rex Goods.
1 hey see “ Rex “ Goods at their hi nds.
ARE YOU SUPPLYING THEM ?
FOGG ITT, JONES & CO., LTD.,
Packer* of “ Rex ” Pure Food Produdt*.
Curera of “ Rex ” Ham* and Bacon.
GOODRICH Black
Safety Tread Tyres
4
5?
\<i
.•V-0
s*
555
>'iV
VAS«5v'
No chance of the cat skidding,
And there is no more chance of
skidding with Goodrich.
What is more —the Black Rubber
wears almost as long as the
cat’s paws.
DUVAL (Si CO
13 CastlereagH Street, Sydney
145 Collins Street, Melbourne
300 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 40.—N0. 2032.
THURSDAY, JUNE 12, 1919.
Pbice 6d.
“COME, BROTHER FRANCE, LET US BE GENEROUS!”
“With regard to a variation of the Peace terms, President Wilson is reported to be urging generosity. Clemenceau strongly
opposes any substantial change.”— Cable.


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave ami McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £ 1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have The Bulletin
sent regularly to you every week for a year, to any
ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., winch should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. 'The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the ‘‘Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse. Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Ncwspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tiib Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions arc observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Tim Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to Tiib Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of Tiib Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., h\l Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
L.3.A.— N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs Neivs Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —-Ignace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Iloung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hono Kong. — Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon.- — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros,, Samarai.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin frer/ist&red as a News-
paper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
1002., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise; Son., lid.; B\oz. to 10oz., 3d.;
lOoz. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, ioz., lid., and id. each
additional 2oz.
xZZeZwi.
THURSDAY, JUNE 12, 1910.
THE INEVITABLE STRIKE.
The people of Newcastle (N.SAN.), who are
never quite satisfied, have been complaining
again about the “slim” device by which the
Central Wool Committee abolished their
wool-export trade and forced the wool-
growers of all the Northern districts to send
their produce an extra 100 miles to Sydney.
As regards the ports north of Newcastle
they are not expected to have a voice as
yet, but that the second-biggest port should
itself be eaten by the biggest one is an out-
rage. The Newcastle wheat business had
already been practically stolen. And the
only reason why the coal trade hasn’t been
removed yet to the fatted metropolis, where
every politician says people are too much
crowded and every politician keeps on crowd-
ing, is that some cheaper method of land
carriage is being waited for. At the same
time, Portland (Western Vic.) was ask-
ing for the millionth time that the
wheat and wool and meat from its
district should be shipped there instead
of at the distant and inferior harbor
of Melbourne. Also, part of Riverina
lately put in its plea to Fitzpatrick,
who keeps the local deficit, for communica-
tion with Melbourne or Portland, which are
near, as well as with Sydney, which is very
far. These and similar applicants get gloz-
ing words but nothing else. All political
parties and political hacks in the big cities
have decentralisation on their programmes,
and all such parties and hacks are liars.
* * * *
When arbitration is not only refused but,
amazing to relate, is absolutely prohibited
by law, then the natural thing is to strike
and to strike good and hard. WHen there
is no appeal unto Caesar people begin to
think of doing without C.esar. The notable
secessions of Australasia, those of Maori-
land, Tasmania, Victoria and Queensland,
were authorised by the British Government.
When the Commonwealth was established
the British Government gave up its right
to authorise any more secessions, though
possibly it would strain the law on an over-
whelming emergency. Naturally it might
be supposed that the power to subdivide its
own territory to the best advantage of its
own people would have passed to the Aus-
tralian Parliament. It is a right which
the United States Congress jealously pre-
serves and which it has exercised no less
than eight times by cutting up old States,
and many times by cutting up partly-
organised territories like our own possession
which hangs on to Port Darwin. I he
original Constitution, accepted by all the
States which took part in the Convention,
left the matter open, so it was presumed
that the Federal Parliament would have
the power of subdivision, like every other
supreme Legislature. But the malign per-
versity of George Reid, the man who did
everything wrong, and his Freetrade friends,
led to the annulment of IS. S. Wales’s ac-
ceptance, and the Constitution went into the
melting-pot. It emerged with the famous
proviso for discpialifying five States as pos-
sible capital sites, and another proviso by
which the Australian Parliament gave up
its right to readjust internal boundaries.
Apart from an amendment to remove this
excrescence, the only appeal from an out-
lying district, which feels that its interests
are sacrificed to those of an overgrown and
selfish metropolis, is to the power which
centres at the overgrown and selfish metropo-
lis. The plaintiff is to lay his case before
the defendant, with the defendant as judge.
If places like Newcastle and Portland were
sufficiently strong in population to assert
their right, as against Sydney and Mel-
bourne, to have the trade and the opportuni-
ties which naturally belong to them, they
wouldn’t require to secede. Not being
strong enough they can’t secede. Just
because they need a remedy they can’t legally
get a remedy because the only power that
can give the remedy is the one that makes
it needful. They are in exactly the
position that Bohemia and Alsace occupied
before the war, which is the case of Ireland
now.
The trouble arises mostly out of the con-
trol of railways. A solid majority in the
Big City and the districts immediately de-
pendent on it builds lines and fakes charges
to direct business, and consequently popula-
tion, to the Big City, so every day it
becomes bigger in proportion and more im-
pregnable in its monopoly. The same evil
of dragging everything to one big city might
have struck Britain ljut for the fact that
railways there are private property. Any
town or district that thinks it requires a
new iron highway can form a company and,
within certain limitations, go ahead at its
own sweet will. Thus it happens that out
of the 42 railway companies in the British
Isles only 15 are controlled in London;
the other 27 are controlled at other towns.
In fact, they are scattered over 21 other
towns. Glasgow, Liverpool, Cardiff, Hull,
Manchester, Dublin, Cork, Aberdeen, Barry,
Barrow-in-Furness and other places have
railway managements of their own, each
anxious to make its own city the boss place
of the land —all this in a territory less than
half the size of N. S. Wales. State rail-
way ownership is a splendid idea which
crooked or small-minded people have turned
into a disaster.
* * * * *
Nobody who has become part of the gov-
erning element in Melbourne or Sydney
means real decentralisation. New members
may start that way, but the city gets them.
They become part of the Congestion machine.
The National party and every other party
has its home in the capital. The Trades
Hall and the Labor Conference are there,
and Labor judds there, likewise it brook-
fields on the same spot. The city has no
more idea of sharing its power with the rest
of the State in real earnest than a czar has
of giving his subjects a genuine Duma except
under dire compulsion. It has no more in-
tention of letting its people go to worship at
new political shrines than Pharaoh had,
though it gives more assurances than Phar-
aoh ever did. The member for Cow Moun-
tain feels no desire to leave the ready-made
fleshpots of the ready-made metropolis, and
legislate in a raw new capital, and help to
build up a new State however desirable that
may he in the public interest, for the pioneer-
ing instinct has gone out of him. He may
say that he yearns after the new life in
order to please his constituents at Cow
Mountain, but he doesn’t really yearn worth
2d. And when the morning paper preaches
what it calls decentralisation it doesn’t mean
that new manufacturing and commercial
towns should be encouraged, though this con-
tinent is hungering for such towns, of which
it has far too few, while its two or three
lone and monstrous cities are wonderful
enough. The penny organ rather holds
forth about going “Back to the Land,” its
idea being to multiply the cow and wheat
patches which send their tribute to the lone
and monstrous cities —monstrous compared
with the total nopulation. ' As a builder of
new centres of industry and trade and en-
lightenment the average daily penn’orth isn’t
anv more sincere than the politician and the
Labor boss.
* * * *
With no longer any court to address itself
to except the one which isn’t worth address-
ing, and wfith arbitration cut off, the next
probability must be the strike. Israel struck
2894 years ago, and refused to pay taxes to
the absurd One Big City Government which
had even centralised public worship—as im-
portant then as public works are now—at
Jerusalem. It refused to pay taxes and set
up its own police force and built its own
capital. Portugal struck 379 years ago and
said it was tired of the Spanish connection.
Belgium struck 89 years ago and said it
was full up of Holland. Norway handed in
its resignation 14 years ago, and said that
the Swedish connection wasn’t up to the
mark. In not one of these cases did
Pharaoh let his people go—he never does.
The people just went. When people do that
sort of thing they establish precedents which
may be embarrassing later on, but the pre-
cedents happen all the same. Australia’s
position is peculiar. There is no design
involved of breaking up the Empire or the
Commonwealth. The continent is divided
info States, some of which are obviously un-
wieldy. There used to be a way by which
the people could obtain subdivision on show-
ing reasonable cause, so subdivision was con-
templated. That way exists no longer.
The one remedv barring an amendment of
the Constitution, which the ruling cities
would oppose to the limit, is for districts
which have a natural centre and a future of
their own to set up the paraphernalia of
peaceful administration in these centres, to
withdraw their members from the State
Legislature, take possession of their bits of
railway, refuse to pay their land and income
taxes, and invite the Australian Parliament
to find a way out of the mess. So many
strikes are always happening that a few
more wouldn’t matter, and this kind would
be a refreshing novelty.
A WORD FOR JOHN TURK.
In every age there are certain conventions.*
accepted by what are usually known as
“right-thinking persons,” in the matter of
national hatreds. At the moment it
is the correct thing to call Turkey
“a plague spot” ( vide S. M. Herald
2/6/’l9), and to regard its destruction as
“an opportunity which every right-minded
European statesman has craved for.”
Previous to the Serajevo tragedy, and
some time after it, the plague spot was Ser-
via. The Servian Crown Prince, now a
social idol, was insulted in London. Stories
were published attributing to him all the
simian villainy of the Kaiser’s deplorable
heir. The right-thinking view was that it
would be good for the world, and for
morality, if Providence decided to submit
Servia to a vast euthanasia—to treat its
troublous inhabitants like the inmates of a
dogs’ home. Similarly Greece was detested
and reviled at one stage of the war, and
Russia—when Russians were dying for us —
was spoken of favorably. Obviously peoples
don’t change their moral qualities at 24
hours’ notice. It is well, therefore, now
that the shouting and tumult of battle have
died, to try to get back to the right per-
spective.
Gladstone's famous theatricality about
hurling the Turks, “their Zaptiehs and
their Mudirs, their Bimbashis and their
Yuzbashis,” out of Europe delighted nine-
tenths of the Little Englanders of his day, not
so much because they considered Turkey
wickeder than any Balkan State, but because
the integrity of Turkey was one of the doc-
trines of British imperialism. It will be so
still if those who aim at holding the Empire
together take the long view. One of the
Kaiser’s most plausible excuses for attack-
ing Russia was that he was the “guardian
of the West,” the only shield against the
Mongol hordes whose natural tendency, if
not destiny, it was to overwhelm European
civilisation. So well did many Britishers
appreciate this point that they viewed with
dismay Russia’s first tremendous successes
against the Hun. It may be admitted now that,
from the purely British standpoint, it would
have been nearly as disastrous for Russia
to have quickly and utterly defeated Ger-
many as it would for Germany to have done
the same to Russia. There was a time
when the Ottoman Empire was as great a
curse and menace to humanity as the Ger-
man Empire threatened to be a few years
ago —a time when its soldiers were the most
dreaded in the world, when it was organised
for plunder, and when its territories
stretched from near Vienna to Bagdad.
But, like all States which live by militarism,
it quickly degenerated. It is a poor sort of
menace now —a tiger which has lost teeth,
claws and most of its hair. Its dismember-
ment is only justifiable as a punitive
measure. Does the Turk, with all his
crimes, deserve the astonishing punishment
which is being generally advocated for him,
and is it not, anyhow, in the interests of the
British Empire, that it should be modified?
* * * *
Take first the comparative ethics of the
situation. The Turk certainly has a rotten
record as a robber and murderer; but it is
little or no worse than that of the Bulgars,
the Serbs and the Greeks. It is a matter of
history, for example, that the Macedonian
atrocities were mostly the work of Bulgars
and Greeks —more particularly Greeks. A
fortnight ago the inspired French commenta-
tor, “PertinaX,” writing in the Echo de
Paris, made a number of forecasts regard-
ing the apportionment of Turkey, some
wrong, such as that “Constantinople will be
international under an American mandate”
(America refused the Constantinople man-
date last week) : some right, such as that
“the rest of European Turkey, with Smyrna,
will be under Greece.” The Greeks duly
took over a few days ago. The following
is a cable account of the proceedings:—
The Smyrna correspondent of the Daily Express
tells a tragic story of the occupation of Smyrna by
Greek troops under the mandate granted to Greece.
He asserts that these troops provoked some Turkish
soldiers to fire a few shots, and then there followed
a horrible man-hunt.
Greek civilians joined in with the troops, and the
Turks who surrendered to the Greek troops for pro-
tection were bayoneted, clubbed and flung into the
sea, even when unarmed and under escort. In addi-
tion to this the Turkish houses and shops were raided
and robbed.
When news of the Smyrna happenings became
known similar man-hunts became the order in the
surrounding villages, the Greek troops handing their
rifles and bayonets to civilians, including even boys
of from 12 to 16 years of age.
There is no reason why the fact that cer-
tain Balkan States have found it worth their
while to fight on the same side as the Allies
should blind the British Empire perma-
nently to their very unpleasant character-
istics. The Greeks have good cause to hate
the Turks. They have been battling for
their freedom with the Unspeakable, off and
on, ever since 1827. But to hand a Turk
to a Greek is merely to present the Unspeak-
able to the Unutterable. There are no pos-
sibilities of justice or harmony in the trans-
action. It is a certain way of driving the
Turk bag and baggage out of Europe, inas-
much as it will drive him into the tomb; but
it is one which was not contemplated by
those who have just finished fighting for
freedom and equity.
Why, primarily, should the Turk be
driven right out of Europe? Turkey-in-
Europe is Turkish in exactly the same way as
Bosnia is Servian. If ethnology is the basis
of the argument, if a sort of White Europe
is aimed at, to be logical we must call for
the transference to Asia of most of the Bal-
kan and practically all the Russian popula-
tions. As a matter of fact, the old Glad-
stonian ideal never had any real justifica-
tion except in the eyes of Exeter Hall sen-
timentalists, who yearned to see sin dramati-
cally punished. The obvious thing to do witn
the Turk is to instruct him in the arts oi
civilised government, and, while he is learn-
ing. to ensure that he does no harm to him-
self or to the world at large. That will
never be accomplished while he is under a
master who, in addition to being an heredi-
tary enemy, is as violent and disorderly as
he ‘is himself. For over a century, until
recent years, Turkey had been sympathetic
to Britain. It did not become an enemy
till Russia became a friend. The Turkish
soldiers showed the British and Dominion
troops, both as fighters and captors, in most
cases, that a lot of the old feeling still sur-
vives. In addition to a certain community >f
sentiment and understanding the Briton and
the Turk have a powerful community of in-
terest. Both are in chronic danger from an
awakened Russia. There is no doubt it was
the realisation of this, more than any pas-
sion for Christianity, which inspired
Tkeitzschke to write, before a Turco-
German alliance was thought of: “A near
future will, it is hoped, blot out the scandal
that such heathendom should ever have
established itself on European soil.” D
there was ever a trace of sanctification about
European soil the Germans have exorcised
it. Meanwhile the world, and particularly
the British Empire, have to face a clear-cut
business problem. Both France and America
have declined mandatories over Constanti-
nople ; Greece is unfitted to control any
Balkan State, much less Turkey; and Tur-
key. for good or evil, is in Europe. What
better administrator of the whole region
could there be. in the interests of peace, than
the United Kingdom?
THE LAW OF “GENERAL AVERAGE.”
Provision is made in Section VIII. of
the Peace Treaty that the Reparation Coin
mission shall see that, “in general, the Ger-
man scheme of taxation is fully as heavy
proportionately as that of any of the
Powers represented on the Commission. ’
Is it not also equitable that as between
the friendly Powers opposed to Germany,
the same rule should apply V
To arrive at a proper understanding of:
the position it is necessary, first of all, to
realise what was the object of the sacrifices
that were endured by the nations opposed
to the Central Powers. The universal opinion
is that the object was the frustration ot
the ruthless endeavor of Germany to secure
World Dominion. The menace was one
common to the Allies and America, and
justice strongly demands that for the free-
dom secured by all from the danger which
threatened, there should be equality of sacri-
fice.
That the menace to America was con-
sidered a reality, some observations of
President Wilson and the late ex-President
Roosevelt conclusively show. President
Wilson said : “It was a war of principle, a
war that threatened freedom ana imperilled
the liberty and democracy that was the foun-
dation of American institutions.” And, as if
to give unanswerable support to the sugges-
tion that the U.S.A. should share the entire
cost of the war, although the country did
not enter into the struggle until near the
end, he said: “It was as monstrous and
wicked in its beginning as at any other
time.” Mr. Roosevelt, on October 30,
1914, said: “I myself have seen plans of at
least two empires now involved in the war
to capture our great cities and hold them
for a ransom, because our standing army is
too weak to protect them. I have seen
plans prepared deliberately to take both San
Francisco and New York and to hold them
for a ransom that would cripple our coun-
try and give funds to the enemv for carrying
on the war.” Again, on September 5, 1917,
he declared his opinion that the German de-
mand for World Dominion was a menace to
the U.S.A. as well as to other countries: “a
problem of defence against a future —per-
haps an immediately-impending future —
attack upon us when we have no
Allies; a problem of preparing our strength
as a permanent policy, so that never again
shall we be forced, as at present, to owe our
safety purely to the valor of our Allies and
not to our own courage and strength.”
Although America was debarred from
standing in line with .the Allies for more
than half the period of the war, admittedly
that country nrovided great help in the sup-
ply of the requisites for carrying on the
struggle. These vital supplies were fur-
nished upon a commercial basis, and America
is the only country amongst those which on-
posed the advance of the enemy that has
emerged from the war immeasurably bene-
fited financially. Her writers acknowledge
—in fact, rejoice—that the war has ad-
vanced America’s foreign trade beyond all
normal development, and that in many ways
her commercial position has been pushed
ahead in the four years of war to a greater
extent than could have been anticipated in
a quarter of a century of peace. (New York
Times, 19/2/T9.)
The Allies are debtors to the United
States to an immense extent. This advan-
tageous position of America is due. to the
burden of carrying on the war for the first
2i years having been borne by the Allies,
without the belligerent assistance of that
country. The task of successfully resisting
the German invasion was one imnosed in the
interests of civilisation, and the United
States would be false to her old traditions
if she were to consciously avoid bearing her
just share of the total load.
The burden cast upon the Allied nations
may be briefly stated as: —
(a) Cost of all requisites for the war.
(b) Maintenance, of armies and navies.
(c) Property destroyed on land and at sea.
(d) Mortality, with national loss of man-power.
(e) Maintenance of dependants of deceased com-
batants and of partly or wholly incapacitated men.
A moment’s consideration, without any
desire to detract from the value of America’s
share in bringing hostilities to a victorious
conclusion, must show the comparatively
small burden thrown upon that nation.
Her leaders acknowledge that the danger
was hers as much as that of the Allies.
The Mad Dog of Europe had to be destroyed.
Although the U.S.A. came in practically at
“the kill,” equity demands that she should


bear her share of the whole cost of the
“hunt” and of the damages.
The feeling regarding the part played by
the U.S.A. in the war may be taken from
the opening remarks by Mr. Philander I*.
Claxton, U.S. Commissioner of Education,
in an article in “The War against Illiteracy
in America”: “For us as a people, now that
we have won the war for freedom and
democracy, there is another task of vital and
supreme importance.” If the glory is
claimed, then, as far as it is humanly pos-
sible, they should share the bill _ for the
monetary expenditure and the material losses
—they can never be placed on terms of
equality with the Allies as regards sacrifice
of blood. Unless the encumbrances arising
out of the prosecution of the war are pro-
portionately divided, it will not be possible
for a nation that emerged from the conflict
unquestionably in a stronger financial, com-
mercial and industrial position than when
she entered it, to be able to fairly claim an
equal share in the glory attached to the
victory. An American writer eloquently
deals with the anomaly of individuals or
associations of individuals having become
fabulously enriched during the war and “in
Consequence” of the war. It is equally an
anomaly for a nation to become enriched
while others which fought the same fight are
impoverished.
Although the propriety of equitably shar-
ing the burdens does not appear to have
been considered, American journals disclose
that the peculiarly advantageous financial
position in which that country stands is not
overlooked. It is estimated that the people
of the United States will have to pay into
the Treasury about 5.2 per cent, of their
earnings, based on the annual nre-war in-
come. Their tremendous advantage is em-
phasised by showing that the British will
pay equivalent to 28.3 per cent., the French
40 per cent., and the Italians 26 per cent, of
their earnings. So jubilant is the writer
over the comparatively light burden of the
United States that he goes on to further
illustrate it: the monetary burden is trans-
lated into time necessary to earn that
money, and it is shown that, while an Ameri-
can citizen will require to devote 15 out of
the 300 working days, the British people will
require to give annually 84 days’ work to
furnish their contribution to the National
requirements. (New York Times, 2/2/T9.)
Nothing could show more forcibly and
clearly the inequitable position in which
the Allies stand as regards America. And
the illustrations are from American
sources.
In order to achieve a just distribution of
the burdens of the war, it is necessary, first
of all, for the nations threatened by the
megalomaniac ambitions of Germany to
realise that they were all in the same boat.
To bring about an equitable adjustment, it
would be necessary only to apply the prin-
ciple of “general average” which is of uni-
versal acceptance in settling losses in re-
spect of a ship and its cargo in jeopardy.
Where a ship is in peril and for the com-
mon safety a loss is voluntarily incurred,
it is made good proportionately by all the
parties concerned. There can be no doubt
that the expenditure and losses incurred by
the Allies, inclusive of those that arose
before the entrance of America into the
struggle, were for the common safety; for
if the German forces had been victorious in
Europe, she might have had to fight the
Central Powers alone, the danger of which
was present to the mind of Mr. Roosevelt.
Sacrifices, therefore, made by the Allies
prior to the entrance of the U.S.A. as well
as after, are, on these grounds, very properly
distributable amongst the whole of the
nations that were interested in overcoming
the attempt of Germany to secure World
1 lominion.
If the principle of equality of sacrifice is
conceded, the working out of a plan' to give
effect to it becomes a matter for negotiation
between the parties and presents no in-
superable obstacles to accomplishment.
M. B. Y.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
“For Services Rendered.”
Tiie office Bolshevik returns thanks: —
May I pay a tribute to the service done to the
Cause by the Sydney daily papers in connection
with the case of Freeman? There are hundreds, I
might say thousands, of us all eagerness to get a
move on. But we have lacked, hitherto, that force
which can only be supplied, in our case, by news-
paper publicity. A man can’t go looting on his own.
Even if the whole of the I.WAV. Club, to which I
have the honor to belong, could be induced to make
a simultaneous rush on the gun-shops, we would have
the public against us. And without a measure of
public sympathy what is a movement like ours to
do? Give us a fair start and we will answer for
the rest. All we ask is one or two more Freeman
cases, and if the offices of the S. M. Herald don’t
go up in smoke shortly afterwards —well, condemn
us for law-abiding citizens who don’t know the first
thing about Bolshing.
Consider some features of Freeman's case. He was
originally deported as an undesirable alien. Every
civilised country deports this class, whether in
peace- or war-time. A Capetown cable-message of this
very day said :
The Government intends to enforce the Deporta-
tion Act in the case of known criminals and undesir-
ables of foreign extraction. Several dangerous
characters would have been deported before but for
the request of the British, Australian and American
authorities to refrain, owing to war conditions. Now
it is felt desirable to get rid of them. A long list
is being prepared of proposed deportees.
England came into line with the European continent
some years before the war, and Soho was swept up,
though, as it transpired, not half carefully enough.
The position is the same as regards those who are
now trying to get in. Normally, from 500 to 1500 are
yearly pushed back from New York alone. Freeman
is an American, with a record so magnificent that his
own country doesn’t seem anxious to have him back
once rid of him. He decided to hunger-strike on the
doorstep of Australia. The hunger-strike is a mod-
ern development due to a cheap and sensational
press. It affords unique opportunities for “sob-
stuff.” Also for attacks on the Government —any
Government —and for mock heroics by more or less
bust politicians. Good reading matter all of it. Sev-
eral papers in leading articles on Freeman’s case
quoted Magna Charta! Most of them, and a mis-
cellaneous crow'd of Nationalists, Laborites, parsons
and limelight-experts, demanded a “fair trial”
before the Civil Courts for the victim. There is no
legal machinery by which he can be tried. Germans
are being deported by the score. Yet you can’t try
a man for being a German. So it comes to this:
that every alien or criminal who cares to starve at
our gates can, by that means, effect a triumphal
entry in the arms, figuratively, of Dr. Arthur,, the
S. M. Herald, Dean Talbot and the Sydney Sun.
The local Bolshevik brotherhood don't give a
curse for Freeman, personally. He is merely the
spark, so to speak, which sets the engine going. The
machinery had stopped, the press petrol having run
out. We hope, shortly, to get it on the move again.
When that happens we shall not confine ourselves to
a few miserable toy rifle-ranges. We shall do, as
our Russian brethren did in the early Petrograd
days, as the Parisians did when the Commune began,
as Revolutionaries always do when they properly
find their feet—make for the big stores. You will
then see the Freedom of Man, Universal Brotherhood
and the Gospel of Humanity in full operation. We
look expectantly to the daily press. Meanwhile the
Saviours of Mankind are grateful for the valuable
assistance already given.
Absentees.
Wherever there is trouble the loud-mouthed
talker who did nothing to prevent it and
didn’t even foresee it is there with his bag
of loose denunciation cadging for popularity.
Just now the silver-lead-zinc town of Broken
Hill is shut up, one of the problems being
the demand for a 30-hour week underground
and fl per shift. So Kerr, president of the
AM.A., was on the spot: —
The fact that millions of pounds had been paid
a wav in dividends to absentee shareholders, while
the workers had received a bare existence, showed'
the necessity of higher wages and lower dividends.
The fact that 87 per cent, of the men examined by
Dr. Stevens for lung trouble were discovered to be
in certain stages of miners’ phthisis, and that a
great number of those who had never worked in
mines other than those of Broken Hill were in the
final or tubercular stage, proved that profits were
earned at the expense of the lives and health of the
men.
But, being merely a roarer, Kerr could sug-
gest nothing except strike and hold-up of
the country in general, with all the attend-
ant sufferings of harmless people. Therefore
The Bulletin is driven to suggest a few
things instead: —
Most of the Labor leaders are and have been the
friends of the absentee. The absentees are the
people who hold our securities abroad, and Labor
when in office has sold the country to every foreign
Jew who would lend us a copper. The absentees
are also the people who make our goods abroad and
fleece us through their agents, the importers, whom
Labor won’t interfere with, though it does its best
to kill local industries that interfere with them.
And they are the foreign shareholders to whom
shares in Broken Hill were sold because our people,
sending away as much as £30,000,000 in a year for
foreign clothes alone, haven’t the money to buy
them.
Most of the Labor leaders are the enemies of the
workers- —they are the makers of phthisis and such-
like horrors. Nine-tenths of the Broken Hill
miners aren’t wanted for Australia’s needs. They
toil at a beastly occupation because Labor accepts
the doctrine of the fat Tory papers that this country
shouldn’t engage in healthy manufactures, but should
dig out poisonous “primary products’’ for foreigners.
Out of £91,335,020 dug out of Broken Hill to
the end of 1916 the shareholders in the mines that
survived (mostly one mine) got £19,415,279, which
isn’t all dividends, because they will lose their
capital at the finish. The other £71,919,741 went
to the miners, to the Australian workers who sup-
plied stores of one sort and another, and—a huge
section of it —to the absentees who, mainly because
of Labor’s fiscal-sinking policy, supply this non-
manufacturing country with machinery and explo-
sives and chemicals and all manner of things at
fancy prices.
Now, thanks largely to Labor’s policy, the
Broken Hill men' are likely to get less wages
instead of more, for though silver has gone
up lead and zinc have slumped badly. The
coal-miners can get £lO a week, for they
mainly supply a local market and the price
can be put up to meet the case. But the
lead-miners have no local market worth
speaking of. They were called into existence
under the “primary production” craze to
supply absentees; and if the absentees fix
prices so that the Broker. Ilill miners’ pro-
duce is worth only £2 per week per man,
the Broken Hill miners will get £2 (less un-
avoidable expenses) or nothing. And even
if the heat of Kerr’s breath sets Broken
Hill on fire it won’t alter the situation. His
crowd is only reaping what it has sown.
Which is absentees.
♦
The M.O.’s Reward.
“Melbourne, Wednesday.—Considerable difficulty is
being experienced in securing a sufficient number
of medical officers to staff the various military hos-
pitals. The Acting Minister for Defence remarked
to-dav that one result of the apparent reluctance of
men who have given no service to come forward is
that the military authorities, whose natural desire
is to release medical men returning from service
overseas, in order that the officers may return to
their homes and re-establish their affairs, find them-
selves compelled to retain these officers for home
service.” —Daily paper (5/6/’l9).
About 1500 doctors volunteered and were
accepted during the war. In many cases
men left practices of £2OOO and £3OOO a year
for the comparatively poor pay of a captain
or major. Wives and families had to be
supported and commitments met. With the
knowledge that part at- least of their prac-
tices would go to stay-at-homes, these good
citizens embarked for the firing-line. They
asked only one assurance, and it was eagerly
given—that they should have a fair deal
when they came back. There is no need to
enlarge on their w’ork. Whatever kick the
Ifigger had against the military system in
general, he had none to aim at the A.M.C.
As a body, it was a miracle of organisation ;
and the average quality of the personnel
was unsurpassed in any Army. While these
men were doing their duty in the field the
clever division at home exploited the situa-
tion for all it was worth. They edged into
practices and they edged into jobs. They had
all sorts of plausible excuses for avoiding the
war —aged parents to support (a duty
which was allegedly impracticable on £4OO
or £SOO per annum) ; that the initial rank
offered (captain or major, as the case hap-
pened to be) was too low; and so forth.
They have now’ a multitude of reasons why
they should make no sacrifice on behalf of
their colleagues who have risked everything
for, amongst others, them. The returning
M.O.’s have, primarily, a moral right to
their immediate discharge, so that they may
resume their home lives and pick up the
threads of their practices again. Tnere
are obvious differences between civil and
military practice. Many of the younger men
require post-graduate training; while others
need experience in civil work, such as Mel-
bourne Hospital is now arranging for those
available to take. The least the Govern-
ment might do is to continue the military
pay of these officers while they are re-fitting
themselves for the civilian struggle. And
the least that should be done by these doc-
tors who did nothing during the war
but make money out of it, is to step forward
and give the others a chance to re-fit. There
is, unfortunately, a type of medico who will
never do it; one who regards patriotism as
idiocy and doesn’t mind saying so. But
there should surely be a sufficient leavening
of decent-minded men who are prepared to
play the game—however belatedly in many
cases —and save their profession from re-
proach.
Thing's Bratklon Didn’t Say.
Henry Y. Bradoon, Australia’s commercial
agent in the United States, has been fare-
welling that country where Mark Sheldon
is to succeed him. And every time Brad-
ijon farewells one wonders what he thinks
he was sent for. What Australia wants
abroad is more buyers for its goods. At
present it has nothing but raw materials to
sell abroad, and only a few different kinds
of them in large quantities. They are well
enough known and in ordinary times there
is no lack of a market. The trouble is that
all we have to offer doesn’t cover the luxu-
ries we import from absentees and the inter-
est and profits of absentees. In any case, the
U.S. is almost the worst place in the world
in which to search for new markets, seeing
that it grows almost everything that we
grow, though it is ravenous to sell us things
and kill off the few industries we possess
and make us its market. Henry Y. Brad-
don has apparently mistaken himself for a
person whose business it is to explain our
weak points, and tell how still more absen-
tees may get hold of our resources and levy
tribute on us. The words in brackets
are not Braddon’s but the rest are:—
I want to say a word or two about Australia.
There is a fine field in Australia for your enterprise
and your capital, and both of these features will
be welcomed in the Commonwealth [by those who
regard it as a place for astute strangers to collect
tribute from ].
There are coal and iron in abundance, plenty of
unexploited possibilities. It just needs pluck and
skill live haven’t got them ] and capital [we haven’t
that either, for under our tariff we spend all our
spare money in buying things from smart men like
you]
England in former days as the great creditor
treated Australia handsomely. On the whole, how-
ever, it would have been better if England had put
the screw on once or twice instead of lending freely.
[/ am now here to see if you will lend freely ] ....
You were a debtor nation before the war [like
Australia, but not so badly]. You are now the only
creditor nation [having a very different method from
ours, the war made you and Canada and Japan rich,
while j thanks to the fiscal policy of the party to
which 1 belong, and to other things, it only made ns
poor]
We will try to pay with goods, but we may not
be able to do so. [lt largely depends on how the
loans come in,] We may have to put restrictions on
imports. I hope the need for it will not arise. [To
restrict imports is apt to create local industries, a
thing which my party hates.]
[ln short, we are like China, ready to be carved
up commercially into “spheres of influence” and
awaiting exploitation. Come early and select your
cut off the goose.]
People have described this as a strange,
upside-down place where the trees shed •their
bark instead of their leaves, and most of
the rivers flow inland and disappear, and
the local animals are born with a port-
manteau inside them. But these are not
all the upside-down features of the country
by a long way.
- - —♦
Unwritten Law.
A couple of months ago a man named Tuck
was killed in Sydney. The person who did
it, one Doyle, was tried for murder last
week and acquitted. It was an operation of
the Unwritten Law very similar to that of
the Malcolm case in London some years
back. Malcolm murdered a German who
was suspected of being a spy. All the evi-
dence pointed in the direction of the Hun
having seduced Malcolm’s wife while the
husband was at the war. Retaliatory mur-
der on the part of soldier-husbands was a
novelty at the time. The coroner wept at
having to find against the slayer of the un-
speakable Baumberg. The Solicitor-Genera]
of England (Sir John Simon) defended him
at the New Bailey, and argued that he had
acted in self-defence, though the accused
scorned to make any such absurd plea on
his own behalf. The jury, bursting with
patriotic sympathy, disregarded the oath
it had taken to find “in accordance with the
evidence,” and declared Malcolm “not
guilty.” Shortly after the Malcolm case a
decorated soldier attempted an imitation.
Justice Darling explained to the jury that
the winning of a D.C.M. did not amount to
a license to murder, and the man was sen-
tenced to death. The same catastrophe will
probably strike the youth who attempts to
follow the Doyle lead. Similarly with cases
like that of Freeman, the hunger-striking
deportee, and Ryan, the self-appointed exe-
cutioner of Lee Hing, of Sydney. As origi-
nals such persons are sometimes not only
tolerated but applauded. As institutions they
would be a menace to the safety of the com-
munity. The world frequently has a vague
tendency to extend to assassins the legal
principle that every dog is entitled to one
bite —provided they choose the right persons
to assassinate. In such cases juries will
often rather perjure themselves than see the
criminals suffer. But civilised mankind
knows that it is too risky to make a practice
of condoning murder. The Unwritten Law.
therefore, remains unwritten because the
community would not dare to put it into
black and white and make its operation cer-
tain.
The Cost of Keeping the Holman
Government Alive.
Another Board appointed by the Holman
Government is sitting to inquire into the
cost of living. In order to run down the
last available fact or relevant rumor this
Commission intends to go off into the back-
blocks and hold sittings in country towns.
There are in the Slate 49 “towns” in a more
or less advanced state of decay and IT!
places which might be viewed as towns by
Commissioners who were drawing travelling
exes, and fees for sittings. In addition
there are several thousand cowbails and
multitudinous fences on which a Commission
might sit for the purpose of taking evidence
from the adjacent cocky and his wife. The
Commission of nine consists of members of
the Board of Trade (£7OO a year each), of
other appointees (paid per sitting), a
judge (£ISOO a year), and, of course, a sec-
retary (£lO a week). What the inquiry
will cost only Heaven knows. But whatever
it may be, The Bulletin protests against
a shocking waste of the public’s cash. The
inquiry is a farce. If it were needed, then
the State Government has been paying a
Statistician a large salary for playing the
fool, and Knibbs has been wasting a con-
siderable part of his time. The cost of
living has been made a special study by the
State Statistician and in a more ample way
by Knibbs for many years, the data em-
ployed having been gathered up over half a
century. The cost of living turns upon two
considerations —the purchasing power of
money and the standard of living in ques-
tion. Knibbs’s calculations go into these
very fully, the first being measured by actual
prices and the second by the commodities in
general use among families. The figures are
accepted by the Courts. No reason exists
for supposing they are not at least approxi-
mately accurate, nor any for suspecting that,
if the “cost of living” were shown by some-
one else to be a few pence more or less, the
news would be worth bothering about. The
fact is that this expensive Commission repre-
sents another helping of the “old stuff”
which Holman long ago grew accustomed to
hand out in moments of trouble.
■ *
“No Soldier Need Apply.”
The Federal Government, like most of the
State Governments, talks loudly of prefer-
ence to soldiers, and when there is a Gov-
ernment job going of the bob-an-hour variety
a soldier sometimes gets it. But not other-
wise. _ When a vacancy occurred recently on
the N. S. Wales Meat Board—a matter of
£ISOO per annum —it was filled by a politi-
cal eligible, the then Labor member for
Paddington. A few weeks later the Acting
Prime Minister announced that the post of
Commonwealth Commissioner in America
had gone to Mark Sheldon, of Sydney.
Mr. Siieldon is, no doubt, an excellent man
for the billet —better, perhaps, as a financier
and business man, than any available sol-
dier who comes readily to mind. He should
be, since the soldiers have been giving to the
service of their country a valuable period
which he has devoted to commerce. But
there are other qualities and assets of worth
in a quasi-ambassadorial position such as
this; and the Government’s choice possesses
none of them. America will want to know
more than hard facts and figures about the
commerce of Australia, and except on those
questions Mr. Sheldon will be unable to
speak with authority. He knows nothing,
for example,_ unless from hearsay, of the
soul and spirit of that section of Australia’s
population in which America is most inter-
ested. Was there no member of the A.I.F.
with sufficient business capacity to hold the
job? It is hard to believe it of a force
which, during close on five years, was never
asked a question it bailed to answer. It is
futile for the Commonwealth’s multitudinous
Governments to talk to private employers
about giving the returned man a fair show,
and a bit over, if they are themselves going
to consistently pass by the best of the sol-
diers in favor of civilians. The case is one
where an ounce of example is worth a ton
of precept.
*
Living Conditions at Sea.
From a coaster cabin: —
The maritime trouble from which Australia is now
suffering is of long standing. Seven years have
elapsed, I think, since the Navigation Act was
passed to remedy, amongst other things, the cond'-
tions for seamen ; but owing to the apathy and in-
difference (who said palm-oil?) of politicians and
union officials, it has not yet become operative !
The living conditions for seamen would never be
permitted in the cheapest of lodging-houses ashore
by the Health Authorities. Why should they be
allowed afloat ?
As I write, one yard from the door of the men’s
quarters, where they live, eat, sleep and spend their
spare time off, is a convenience used bj' 20 men or
more; also in port by the shore-hands working
cargo, probably another’3o. The result on a hot
day or any old day can be left to the imagination.
The food question is another grievance. As re-
gards quantity, there is ample, but of variety there
is none.
The working class ashore enjoy Saturday half-holi-
day and Sundays off. The life of the seafaring
man, who knows nothing like that, calls for fair and
adequate compensation, more especially as one signs
away one’s liberty on joining a vessel, and can be
called upon to work overtime “whenever required,"’
and as long as required, even if it is a month, under
threat of a fine, “the sack” and being damned with
a bad discharge (i.e., character).
The general public’s colossal ignorance of, and <ts
astounding indifference about, seafaring conditions
are only too well known to our fraternity. Tt is
only when the great public’s pocket or belly suffers
that it awakes to the fact that such a class (of
microbes exists. One reads in the press of the
“noble assistance” the mercantile marine rendered
to the Navy and the public generally during the late
war. But when decent living conditions are asked for
and ignored with deadly monotony, and when a climax
is reached, the members of the “second line of
defence” are regarded as something worse than
Huns.
Feminism anil the “Social Evil.”
From “A Feminist” :
The Bulletin advocates the registration of prosti-
tutes as one means of decreasing venereal disease.
But if registered houses are to be accepted as public
utilities why not institute ordinarj' registry-offices
for prostitutes, and conduct them openly? Also, if
such places are necessary, why call them houses of


T!i e Farmers’ & Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of A ustralia
Limited
The Workmen’s Compensation Act imposes heavy liabilities on Farmers and
Graziers.
The Farmers’ and Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of Australia Limited
will accept their liability for a small premium.
It is to the best interests of the Man on the Land to support this co-operative
company.
Write immediately for particulars.
Head Office: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BLANCHES in VICTORIA AND SODTH AUSTRALIA.
by a jury, and the widow of a naan working
on a collier was awarded £lsooyet the
Commonwealth apparently expects a zeal-
ous and efficient officer, incapacitated by
wounds and defence service, to keep himself,
wife and child on 15s. a week.
Bring out the “cat” again, dogger! Slip
your fingers through its memorable tails
and lay it across the meat of two Melbourne
citizens who attacked and robbed William
Henry Dudley le Souef. This by order
of Judge Woinarski at the General Ses-
sions last week. Fifteen lashes “privately’
and five years. His Honor’s explanation,
or rhapsody, was that “the community had
to be protected from these wicked, violent
and brutal attacks upon citizens.” Now, if
his Honor is an upright judge—and The
Bulletin hopes he is—he will be consistent
and fiog every man found guilty. of. wicked
attacks upon citizens. If the villains who
battered Le Souef are to be flayed, then the
scoundrels who waylay Jones must be cut
to ribbons also. And the well-dressed
blackguard of good family must get the lash
along with the ill-dressed blackguard with
no family pull. This will do away with
the suspicion that flogging is a class punish-
ment and give everybody a square deal, in-
cluding the flogger, whose job has stunk in
the nostrils for some time.
Randolph Bedford (M.L.C.) addresses the
House: —
The Bulletin (29/5/’l9) criticises that conclu-
sion of the Vic. Labor Conference which reads:
“That the nationalisation of all assurance, financial
and banking instututions shall be a foremost plank
of the fighting platform of the party.” To that
says The Bulletin : “As regards the first, something
like 95 per cent, of Australian life assurance is run
by co-operative institutions The only ways by
which these institutions could be ‘nationalised’ more
than they are would be by allowing nominees or
non-subscribers to handle the cash —people who don’t
care to insure or who are too diseased or too mad to
be admitted —and by allowing politicians to appoint
each other to the best billets regardless of quali-
fications.’' The question is not that 95 per cent.
“vice” at all, or attach any punishment to the
practice of “vice” ?
As to the part feminists may play they can onlj
work in co-operation with men in this matter. So
long as the remuneration for women’s work is decided
by a man on an alleged “woman’s” living-wage
basis, instead of on a human living-wage basis, we
shall have both the permanent and the casual prosti-
tute as a logical sequence. One of the blackest
indictments of a man-governed civilisation is , con-
tained in Mrs. Pickett’s statement (B. 3/4/’l9) :
“There are many women who will stray from the
paths of virtue for the sake of a full evenings
luxury and enjoyment.” No man has ever sounded
the depths of what that statement means and must
ultimately mean to the race if the wrong is not
righted. It is inconceivable that men who support
the recognition of registered houses snould have done
so without serious thought of who must be sacrificed
thereto. Are they, then, prepared to fight for the
recognition of registered women as public servants
co-equal with their own wives and mothers and
eligible to mix with them? And are they willing
to extend the right to registered houses as to other
public departments to recruit from their own women-
folk? We can’t drop venereal disease while we
make reservations in favor of one sex.
The Bulletin has nothing to say against
the utmost publicity being given to regis-
tered houses ; nor does it care what they are
called. Procuration should be punished,
just as adult women who elect to enter on a
life of immorality should be w - arned: the
reasons are too obvious to require argument.
But it is not suggested that any punishment
should attach to the practice of “vice” per
sc. This paper is all for higher wages for
women, but low wages are a smaller factor
in the “social” evil than many people
imagine. Never, for example, has it been
more rife in England than during the last
four years, when wages soared to an
unprecedented height. Lombkoso remarks
(“L’Uomo Delinquente”) that the most
determined prostitutes he encountered were
women of means. In no age has incorri-
gible immorality been a special characteristic
of the poor. Mrs. Pickett’s remark which
has shocked “A Feminist” is really a recog-
nition of it. Arsene Houssaye put the
point of view in the phrase: “Women give
themselves away for money, for love and for
nothing.” Such “feminist” contentions as
that prostitutes should be encouraged to mix
on equal terms with normal women are not
intended to be taken seriously by those who
advance them. Those who seek to stamp
out Y.I). are as anxious to see prostitution
stamped out as anyone. They are willing
to help in every reasonable way possible.
But meantime they say that, so long as the
thing does exist, it should be made as harm-
less as possible. Every proposed prophy-
lactic measure, from notification to registra-
tion, can be enforced without prejudice to
any local- or world-effort to abolish prosti-
tution altogether. And the people who advo-
cate their enforcement are the keener inas-
much as no sort of movement to abolish
prostitution is so far even dimly visible any-
where.
Military Pensions.
“0.1. R.” : The absence of private funds for
assisting deceased or incapacitated officers’
families makes the Australian rates of pen-
sion far lower than the English. This is
so not only with war pensions, but with the
provision for permanent officers incapaci-
tated in peace time. For these there are
indeed no pensions, but a so-called compen-
sation is given. There is one notorious case
of an officer well known in Sydney and Mel-
bourne. He received eight wounds in the
Boer War (The Bulletin of the day called
him the human colander), including bullets
through the head and lung. Later on, after
a brilliant militia career, he obtained a
commission on the permanent staff. After
some time, owing to overwork during the
years immediately following the introduc-
tion of compulsory training, he contracted
lung trouble on the site of the old wound,
was declared permanently incapacitated by
a medical board and recommended for the
highest compensation. He was retired in
1915, allowed to retain his rank and uniform
and specially thanked by the Minister for
his “zeal and efficiency.” Then, to cap
everything, he was given, to keep himself,
wife and child, the sum of £750, which at
5 per cent, would bring in 15s. per week.
The officer has spent more than this amount
on medical fees in his efforts to get well, and
he is now practically destitute. The Com-
monwealth Government knows this, but says
it can do nothing more except that it has
allowed the officer to enter a military medi-
cal institution. But this does nothing for
the wife and child, nor does it keep the
officer in clothes or the uniform he is so
graciously allowed to retain. There is an
old South African Patriotic Fund in Sydney
which should be still over £30.000 in credit.
This fund helped the officer with his medical
expenses for a time, but declines to do any-
thing further, though the officer, having "a
good constitution, may live many years and
is really not a case for an institution. A
child who was crippled by the breaking of
a rail at a School of Arts was given £2OOO
ALLIES.
of Australian life assurance is co-operative, but that
competition—even the competition of co-operative
concerns —is as wasteful as the delivery of meat,
bread or milk in any suburban street. Of Australian
life offices only one, the National Mutual, has an
expense rate about equal to that of the Queensland
State Insurance, and only two are below it. Of
these the A.M.P. is enabled to make an 8.89 p.c.
and the Mutual Life and Citizens an 8.28 p.c. ex-
pense rate because both the A.M.P. and the Citizens
have industrial branches, and the Citizens especially
Guts the industrial policy-holder to the bone and
gives a bit back to the ordinary policy-holder. These
two concerns have big accumulations of interest-
earning funds —which means that the public was
over-charged for the service to the extent of those
funds. Bonuses are merely sops to the policy-holder
—the over-charge paid by himself. And industrial
insurance is theft, anyhow. Of the other offices none
even approaches the Queensland Government Office
in the matter of cheap working.
Competition isn't necessarily wasteful; and
to compare every operation, financial and
otherwise, with the delivery of milk is
absurd. Where there isn’t competition there
is monopoly; and nobody has written more
fiercely about that than Bedford himself.
In certain lines, nevertheless, State or
municipal monopoly is desirable. But
only within limits. And the quality of
the Government determines whether those
limits should be wide or narrow. At
present, generally, the quality of Aus-
tralian Government is wretchedly poor;
wherefore an extension of Government mono-
polies is for the moment undesirable. In
N. S. Wales, for instance, we have lately
had Cann, the miner and politician, ap-
pointed t» the control of the Railway
monopoly; Osborne, the draper’s assistant
and M.P., sent to control the abattoirs and
the distribution of meat; and Cohen,
Flowers. Beyant, Burgess and others
given various public billets. So long as
Government monopolies are regarded as
means for supplying politicians with jobs,
they are just as dangerous as those other
trusts about which Bedford has written so
often and so scornfully. Probably, indeed,
more dangerous.
Ex-Minister Jensen has come back to
Australia, saying that he has been griev-
ously wronged over the Shaw wireless pur-
chase, but that; “right must assert itself
some day,” when his character will be cleared
and will shine like a newly-minted bob. If
Jensen proposes to be a nuisance about his
character, perhaps it would be best to have
a searching inquiry before a High Court
Judge with a prosecution to follow if the
case calls for it. It would cost money, but
it might save the country from being bored.
Jensen, in his fury of exculpation, says that
he paid every penny of his passage-money
to England. The writer also paid every
penny and the odd as well of his tram-
fare the other day, and never thought of tell-
ing the papers about it till Jensen spoke.
“Rio”: My conviction that the Australian
Army Reserve will be only a paper organisa-
tion was strengthened lately when I heard
an officer, himself incapacitated from ever
taking the field again, addressing the con-
sumptives at a military sanatorium and ask-
ing them to join the reserve! Was ever
anything more absurd? No reserve forces
of any kind are of any value unless there
is a strict medical examination on enlist-
ment. and an age fixed for retirement and
rigidly adhered to.
A small bomb was dropped into the Town-
planning Conference at Wellington by Dr.
Frengley, second-in-command of the Maori-
land Health Department. Straight roads,
which were the bane of town-planners, were,
he said, the joy of sanitary engineers, and
the sanitary engineer’s job was the most im-
portant in the planning of a town. Another
fact was that uniformity in design of houses,
no matter how artistic, spelt monotony, and
as about half of the woes of the world were
due to monotony we wanted less of it, not
more. Frengley is a warm advocate of town-
planning, but he wants to see that the town
is planned to produce the right results, even
though in the process the “artists” are given
cold shivers.
Ratepayers of Melbourne City were per-
turbed last week by a circular headed
“Danger!” It seemed that their liberties
were threatened and that their hopes of
rescue from the perilous position centred in
Weedon—little ex-Gaud Mayor Weedon.
The fussy, frock-coated citizen was seeking
election to the Vic. Leg. Council, on the
understanding that he would sit down and
save the country when he got there. The
danger would be in permitting the other
fellow to get the job; and, as he didn’t
manage it, the country is presumably saved.
Still, it was a narrow escape. Weedon
polled only 200 more than the second man,
Pearson.
S.A. Gas Co. has got out of its narrow
frontage in King William-street. Adelaide,
and built itself a fine place in Waymouth-
street, just beyond the Advebtiser office.
This position, central and yet just out of
the tide of traffic, has been strangely over-
looked. There are still, adjoining Victoria
Square and right in the shadow of the
G.P.0., timber-yards and vine-clad cottages
which date from early times, and take up
space of great value. A neighboring corner
of King William and Grenfell streets pos-
sibly the finest site in Adelaide —has been
acquired by the T. and G., which proposes to
pull down the little old shops at present on
it and put up a big pile stretching right
round to the Register office.
Dear B., —Mr. Webster’s bullock-teams
have only just arrived, so I got my Bul-
letin of 22/5/’l9 four days late. Is the
joke on page 16 a misprint for “Webster’s
Snails”? —Yours, Dr. Nil. P.S.—Probably
you will get this next year. If so, don’t
trouble to print it. Webster may be dead.
The call of Asia, in Ivapunda (S.A.)
Herald :
Wanted —Bv Middle-aged Colored Gentleman, with
children, Middle-aged Lady, good character. Khan,
Beltana.
Suggested answer for White Australia: —
Dear Khan. —We can’t.
“Dunederra” : There’s another side to this
matter of the sale of “deficient” wheat.
Lately the howl was that rotten grain, “not
fit for pigs,” was being sold for flour-making.
I planted some of that poor year’s crop be-
fore I went to the war. Returning, I had
to shift camp, and lately bought some of the
alleged rotten grain, as offal, for about 3s.
per bushel. I’ll swear there’s nothing wrong
with it. It is light, certainly, but Pve sold
lighter and worse grain in other years, and
the buyers hadn’t a word to say against it.
If one result of the recent yell is that good
grain is now being sold as offal, then the
farmers are being fleeced once more. And
they can’t stand much of it without perish-
ing.
Few men have a better knowledge of the
inner history of M.L. politics than the
trimly-built, grey-haired James F. Andrews,
who has just resigned the post of secretary
to the Executive Council. He has been an
ideal civil servant, polite as a Chesterfield,
yet dumb as an oyster concerning things
on the inside. He knew “King Dick” Sed-
don, at Kumara, in 1877, long before that
astute politician had begun to plaster his
name across the hoardings of the earth.
Andrews was then knocking about the Mest
Coast looking for gold. He has been a pri-
vate sec. for decades, and was with John
Ballance, then Premier, in that democrat’s
last illness of April. 1893, when he rushed
by train from New Plymouth to Wellington
to undergo the operation which resulted in
his death. Andrews was after that with
Seddon all through his long term of office
as Premier.
Donald Mackinnon goes to Vic. Lands
Department as an hon. Minister to help
Frank Clarke, who is handicapped by being
in the Leg. Council. In his young days
Mackinnon sat at the feet of George Higin-
botham, and, when the Great Democrat was
Chief Justice, helped him to consolidate the
Vic. Statutes (1890). It will make the
mentor’s ghost sad if it knows that the old
pupil is playing second fiddle to one of the
Clarkes. The deterioration began 12 years
ago, when Donald, who was then leader of
the Radicals (called the Vic. Eleven),
coalesced with Bent and got an Honorary
Ministership. He had to wait till Watt’s
second Ministry was formed at the end of
1913 before he secured salaried rank. One
trait he still shares with Higinbotham —a dis-
like of titles. He was sounded by Watt re-
garding a handle for his name for his work
as Director-General of Recruiting, with the
result that no communication was sent to
Downing-street.
The promoters of the N. S. Wales Crema-
tion Co. are going ahead with their practical
reform; but, because they cannot hold out
promises of fat dividends, progress is slow.
Dr. Paton, Director-General of Public
Health in Sydney, is one of the directors of
the co.; Dr. Creed is another. Dr. Foreman
a third. No doubt if Dr. Ashburton Thomp-
son were available he would be glad to act,
too. For the long-time Inspector of Health
once, reporting on an outbreak of typhoid in
Leichhardt, and speaking of the contamina-
tion of a well from which the water-supply
of a dairy was drawn, said:—
Disgusting as such matter is, sewage is not the
only organic matter it contains. On both ridges
are cemeteries. That on the west has been estab-
lished about 16 years and holds 9000 bodies. That
on the east, established about 12 years, holds 1000
bodies. The soil was supposed to be impermeable
until Norton-street was cut down 3ft. A shallow
section of the lowest part of the cemetery was thus
made, and I am told by many people that so foetid
a soakage flowed from the face to the street as to
render the latter almost impassable for nearly six
week 3.
Cannibalism is horrible enough ; but we do
better —we wait till our corpses arc rotten
and then feed the extract to our cows that
they may pass it on to our infants in the
milk supply. It is a beastly business; and
those Sydney people who think that crema-
tion is more sanitary can help on the reform
by assisting to build a crematorium on land
already provided by the Government for the
purpose. Dougall Laing, of 196 Sussex-
street, is the secretary.


WHEN “OUT OF SORTS” TAKE
CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
If fretful, feverish, constipated, bilious
or tongue coated, take this delicious
fruit laxative at once.
The vague, general discomfort of being
“out of sorts,” when the stomach turns
against food, the eye is dull and the tongue
coated and heavy, can be banished in a few
hours by a dose of California Syrup of Figs
“Califig.” There is no need to put up
with these things until to-morrow, waiting
for bedtime to take medicine. California
Syrup of Figs—“Califig”—will begin to do
you good the moment you take it—at any
jj our _ an d cause no discomfort. This plea-
sant-tasting, refreshing fruit laxative
cleanses the stomach, gently sweeps away all
accumulations of undigested food, and stimu-
lates the liver to assist in relieving the
bowels. By evening the tongue will be clear
again and the overflow of bile swept away ;
you will be yourself again, with a good appe-
tite and digestion. This is the medicine
which does such wonders for children of all
ages; but it is every bit as good for grown-
up people, and there are full directions for
every age with the. bottle. Take care to buy
the genuine, as there are imitations on the
market. Ask for “Califig”—California
Syrup of Figs, and look for the name and
trade mark of the California Fig Syrup Co.
All chemists sell “Califig”—California Syrup
of tw-0-sizes, 1/6 and .2/4. [2
mb
Ef
? I / ',:■.
'% ,
■
Chest
Affections.
Colds, Coughs, Bronchitis, Influenza
Prescribed by the medical profession for twenty-five
years, Angier’s Emulsion is now universally recognised
as a standard approved treatment for colds, coughs
bronchitis, influenza, asthma, consumption, and for all
catarrhal affections of the respiratory or digestive organs.
Angier’s Emulsion is soothing and healing to throat,
lungs, stomach and intestines, and it has a most invigor-
ating, tonic influence upon the general health. Pleasant
to take and equally useful for children or adults, it is an
invaluable household remedy for chest affections.
Send name and address, 4d. postage, and mention this paper.
ANGIER CHEMICAL CO., LTD., 233 Clarence St., Sydney, N.S.W.
FREE
TRIAL
BOTTLE
POLITICAL
POINTS
The net result of the Vie. polls for the
House of Landlords is that the Labor party
has gained a seat. E. L. Kiernan, a Gol-
lingwood councillor, lias been sent in by
North Melbourne to keep Jones, Disney,
Beckett and McNamara company lest they
should get too lonely in a House of 34
members. Hagelthorn’s defeat _ for the
South-East was the sensation of the elec-
tions. He was beaten by Chandler, a Bays-
water orcliardist. Ilagel thorn (father a
Swede, mother a Scot) was the only Catholic
Liberal member in both State Houses, and
lie has now been disposed of. to the delight
of Joe Nicholson and Co. A seat may be
found for him in the Assembly in a few
months.
Lawson and the Country Party of Vie.
Assembly were talking dolefully about
finance, State rights, threatened per capita
reductions and other things at the confab,
last week, when Peacock interjected, “There
won’t be any compulsory war loan.” The
caucus group looked inquiringly at him for
more, and he told them to watch for some-
thing from Hughes more interesting than
the surprise he sprang on the public when he
announced, while on a previous trip abroad,
that lie had bought a fleet of merchant ships.
Either the ex-Premier knows something or
is drawing inferences from slender facts.
THE FINDING OF MOSES.
The struggle to make oil and dynamite
work together : —*-
At this year’s conference of N. S. Wales Labor
Party, which opened at Sydney on Saturday, hate
is in the atmosphere, vindictive phrases on every
tongue. There is much talk about solidarity, mostly
from politicians who, being in, want to stay there.
From the more honest comes frank confession that
there is as much solidarity on the premises as there
is at Timbuctoo. One man gets up and announces
that another is a disgrace to the movement. A
second complains of a comrade who from the end of
a soap-box had thrown doubts on the complainant’s
paternal origin. Someone frequently calls someone
else a liar. “As Lord Rosebery once said,” observes
A. O. Willis, “the hungry sheep look on unfed while
the ins and outs are squabbling.” “Oh, give us an
Australian quotation!” remonstrates Johnston,
M.L.A. “Well, as I looked over there when I men-
tioned sheep,” retorts Willis, “I thought it was
all right”—and Johnston leaps to his feet with wild
denunciation of Willis for calling Australians jum-
bucks. “Order!” yells the president and bangs
his bell. A violent conflict breaks out at the door
and the glass panels collapse with a noise as of
the breaking of all the crockery in the world. The
rowdiest, most venomous conference Labor ever held
in Sydney.
The Federal Parliament is to be asked to
turn the Inter-State Commission into a sort
of court. The Bulletin doesn’t mind, pro-
vided some real use is to be made of the body.
If its findings are to be accepted as the basis
of a tariff, and if Parliament is going to use
it as a watchdog to see that the tariff serves
its purpose, then its existence can be ex-
cused. But if the new Court is to be the
same thing as Jthe futile Commission, which
makes reports that few read and nobody acts
upon, then to give its members a longer
tenure and a higher screw and status will be
merely another scandal.
The N.S.W. Labor Conference began on
a high note re the deportation of Freeman
as a well-fed passenger on a first-class
steamer. It called on the Government not to
“out-Hercd the worst crimes of such nations
as the unspeakable Turk in acts of barbarity
and brutality.” This sort of violence is the
earmark of Stodge, junior, the inferior jour-
nalist —the one who compares the fire at
the corner grocery with the burning of Rome
or the combustion of the Cities of the Plain.
“Never since the fall of Babylon,” writes
young Stodge, “has there been a more thrill-
ing event than the fall of our esteemed
fellow-townsman Mr. Smith from his balcony
yesterday.”
How the U.S.A. came out of the war —
which was. as they now admit, fought for
them as much as for anybody—is suggested
by this little list of earnings per share of
a" baker’s dozen of industrial cos.:—
1914. 1917.
Dollars. Dollars
per share, per share.
American Beet Sugar Co. .. 2.29 38.84
American Can Co. . . .. 8.61 21.84
American Car and Foundry Co. .. 5.53 27.36
American Loco. Co. .. .. 1-30 21.81
American Steel Foundries .. 1-35 24.49
American Woollen Co. . . . . 0.06 40.42
American Zinc Co. .. .. 1.52 21. 1 8
Baldwin Loco. Co. . . . . 5.25 40.22
Bethlehem Steel Co. . . .. 30.59 44.20
Crucible Steel Co. .. .. 2.64 42.13
Maxwell Motor Co. .. .. 0.30 29.62
Railway Steel Spring Co. .. 0.42 32.31
Republic Iron and Steel .. .. 0.56 51.88
The list might be made a column long ; and
if the 191(i figures were given some of the
cos. would be shown to have done even
better —Bethlehem Steel, for instance, in
that year made $280.30 per share, or over
nine times more than in the year the war
started.
Victoria is getting some insight into
departmental methods. Years ago it dis-
covered it had an asset in the Beech Forest
area, but instead of attacking it as a house-
wife does a pudding, cutting a track in to
the centre and removing slice after slice and
occupying the cleared area, it allowed set-
tlers to rush in as a small boy attacks the
same pudding, diving in after the plums,
making a mess of everything, and then dis-
covering that he can’t
get away with the
dainties, after all.
Settlers were allowed
to squat wherever
they listed ; there were
neither roads, tracks,
nor railways; they
couldn't get valuable
timber out, so they
burnt it: and when
they got the land
cleared there was no
outlet for their pro-
duce. They just
strove and existed —
except those who threw
up the contract. Now
the State is taking
most of them off the
holdings where they
have wasted many
years and concentrat-
ing them about one
spot, where they are to get a road to a
railway, with a school and a few other evi-
dences of civilisation—all of which they
should have had at first.
The M.L. Federation of Labor has decided
that it can take no part in the celebration
of peace. Quite right. We ought not to
expect the Federation of Labor to join in
making glad over a harvest which it did
nothing to reap. As a Federation it did
not lift a finger to help win the war. It
did nothing to help recruiting. It favored
a negotiated peace. Never once did it
show that it realised the danger in which
democracy was involved. It made no pro-
test against the enslavement of the Belgians
and the people of Northern France, a
hideous enslavement streaked by starvation,
massacre, and. for women, things worse than
death. The Belgian workers appealed to
the workers of the world for help. The
Federation raised no voice in response. It
would be a hypocite now if it did not stand
aloof and mingle its tears with the Hun’s.
A few baby industries' were born in Aus-
tralia during the war because the Huns’
submarines maintained a sort of long-dis-
tance blockade. But the British fleet main-
tained a very real blockade close to the
Huns’ ports, with the result that babies
arrived there too. Certainly there wasn’t
the same room for infants in Germany as
there was and still L in Australia; never-
theless in certain lines —motion-pictures, for
instance —the Hun discovered that he had
been missing something, and proceeded to
hurry up for the ’bus. So, unless we make
the new tariff high enough to be really effec
five, we are going to have poured into us
things made as the direct result of the oper-
ations conducted by Jellicoe in the North
Sea. A blockaue can be a two-edged sword
unless the blockading country provides itself
with a shield in the shape of a post-war
tariff.
If we must have Empire Day let us at
least not make it the occasion for dangerous
folly of the sort that has lately cost us so
much. For example, one great Imperialist
said at Albury: “We celebrate Empire Day
on the birthday of the late
Queen Victoria because she
was such a striking and noble
character, and because during
her reign the Empire made
greater advance than in the
reign of any other monarch.”
Not only the British Empire
but all the countries of the
world made this “greater ad-
vance than in the reign of any
other monarch,” simply because
the age of steam and coal and
iron happened around that
time; and unless the lady in-
vented steam and laid down the
coal seams and iron deposits,
only the wildest sort of lunatic
would say that she was respon-
sible for the advance. Victoria
was neither striking nor noble.
She was a selfish old woman
who completed the Germanisa-
tion of English officialdom and
helped to loose the monster
Prussia on Europe. Her diary
is spotted with such remarks as
“dear Albert says we must be
good to Prussia,” and after the
death of Albert the Good Ger-
man, she wrote: “Our dear
angel Albert now in Heaven
said that a strong Prussia was necessary,
and to that end I must work.” She
was a narrow-minded, dull Teuton ; let’s be
silent about her and her help to the crime of
1914.
“Happy Jack” Scaddan, who has won the
seat for Albany (W.A.), lost his last Par-
liamentary job in July, 1917. His oppo-
nent in the recent contest, William D. John-
son, was formerly one of John’s colleagues.
They were together for five years in West-
ralia’s second Labor administration. At
Albany, Johnson was the Labor nominee ;
as for Scaddan, he told the electors that he
will never again be controlled by any
machine. The winner will be a useful man
in the Mitchell Government, in which, by the
way, he was included while still out of the
House.
The Nationalist pot narrowly missed boil-
ins: over at the Leg. Council election for Mel-
bourne province, when John Pearson, the
Labor man, approached within 205 votes of
Henry Weedon, selected Nationalist. The
seat, which had been held for 20 years by
recently-retired John Davies, without any
opposition throughout that period, was re-
garded until near the close of nominations as
a certainty for the Stout candidate. City-
councillor Ward, however, decided that he
had just as good a right to stand for the
seat as Weedon, whereupon another Nation-
alist squabble started and continued right up
to polling-day. Pearson :has shoved hard for
other people at various elections in the past.
He is a South Melbourne caterer and publi-
can, and Joe Hannan, Labor M.L.A. for
Albert Park, is his son-in-law.
The Italian throws a new bomb daily into
the harassed Peace negotiations. His latest
is that, as German Austria —the mere frag-
ment that remains of the proud old ram-
shackle empire—can’t pay the whole bill
fairly chargeable against the deceased, there-
fore some of the released provinces should be
made to pay. Particularly he mentions the
released Serbian provinces, now part of
Serbia, though the idea of presenting a bill
to that utterly ruined Ally is grotesque.
Also he wants released Bohemia to pay,
though its Czech army abandoned the Huns
at the beginning of the war and fought on
our side. The other view of the case, to
which he gives no attention, is that the
Italian should pay part of Austria’s bill
himself, for he has taken the most valuable
part of the dead empire and with it a bit of
the liability for the Hun’s misdeeds.
On the understanding that Premier Law-
son, as well as the heads of their own organ-
isations, would sign it, the National Fede-
ration and the Women’s National League
prepared a leaflet supporting Hagelthorn’s
candidature for the Vic. Uppish House,
When the document was sent up for signa-
ture, Lawson, overawed apparently by the
Bowser majority in the Cabinet, declined to
pu t his name to it. or even to authorise
Hagelthorn (with whom he had been asso-
c j a t e d in the Peacock Ministry) to publish
an unsolicited complimentary letter already
f orwar ded to him. So Hagelthorn had to
4abe jds chance on his merits ; and the South-
Eastern province said there weren’t enough
* t j ieni ®
A deputation from the Amalgamated
Society of Engineers lately asked Minister
Poynton to see that certain trades—theirs in
particular—weren’t swamped by soldier
SOMETHING TO BE THANKFUL FOR.
IMPORTER'S DAUGHTER: “Surprising that all
these children died of the same thing.
Was it another epidemic?”
PUPPA ( piously ): "No! Thank God it is
always with ns.”
trainees. It said it wanted the Diggers to
become skilled artisans, but it didn’t want to
see a lot of unemployed about; work was
scarce and there was no prospect of expan-
sion of the trade, etc. As a cold fact Aus-
tralia offers any quantity of engineering
work, many millions pounds’ worth every
year—to the foreigner. If the party to
which the A.S.E. mostly belongs had not
first insisted on sinking the fiscal issue and
then permitted its leaders to break their
promise to introduce a protective tariff,
there would now be more work offering in
Australia than would employ all the unionists
and the trained Diggers and the mob of
immigrants that promise to arrive presently.
As it is, the work is offering in Japan and
America, and Poynton has no control over
those places.
Strange things are done in the name of
liberty. The men who rose up in their anger
to release Paul Freeman, the person who
formerly claimed to be of foreign origin and
Hun parentage and was such a nuisance on
the Sonoma, raided three shooting galleries
and stole a number of baby guns, some ammu-
nition, the loose cash and an umbrella. Also
they broke a plate-glass window belonging
to a harmless Australian citizen. They
didn’t release the person who had said he
w r as of Ilun parentage; but they stuck to
the gamp and the sundries.
Sir (or is it Saint?) Harry, protesting
against the prohibition of his appeal on
behalf of the Lauder fund for Scottish sol-
diers, sailors and fishermen, scored a point
in his reference to collections taken up to
assist the Armenians, Syrians, etc. lie
might have scored another by remarking that
he was the first visiting British artist to
plead for a British cause, whereas from the
very outset of the war the patriotic endea-
vors of non-British artists have been iden-
tified with non-British causes. This country
has raised a lot of money for war victims
who were neither Australian nor British, and
even whilst Lauder was breaking the regula-
tion on behalf of brither Scots the wowsers
of Melbourne were doing a bit for their
friends the Armenians.
DRUNK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Arbitrary power has an intoxicating effect on the
average man.” —Sydney Telegraph.
I am completely boozed with saying things
And finding other people humbly do them;
I stagger like the emperors and kings
Whose lofty deeds have no one to review them.
(Besh thing on earsh thish whisky-dope of power!
I am the bossh —at leash for half an hour.)
Fill up the glass again and let us drink
Jove’s very nectar brewed on high Olympus;
We grow tremendous in our nod and wink ;
Our will is free and none shall stint or crimp us.
(This War Precaution thing should never ceash ;
llic—fill ’em up—what isli the use of peash?)
What’s Law that I should turn or bend my head?
Out on the foolish word ! My state is regal.
There is no punishment that I need dread.
All rights of other blokes are now illegal.
(Wha’s that? A riot! Shoot the blighters quick!
No ush to shtay an’ argue with a brick.)
N.S.W.
MARY McC.


THE UNCONSIDERED THIRD PARTY.


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
Registered
BHAS
Brand.
Producers of Lead in the following forms—
Refined Lead, Corroding Lead, Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated),
Super-refined Lead, Chemical Lead.
Also of—
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated), Spelter,
and the following Alloys and Metallic Products —
Antimonial Lead, Linotype Metal, Litharge (Industrial and Assay),
Bearing Metals, Leaded Zinc Pigments, Blue Powder.
Purchasers on a Specially Favorable Tariff of Silicious Silver-Lead Ores, Slags, etc.,
containing Silver and Lead, Lead Drosses, Zinc Drosses.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE—
H. Ij. SHACKELL, Secretary.
LONDON OFFICE: PINNERS HALL. AUSTIN FRIARS, E.C. 2
A. .T, SMTTH. London Secretary.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY—
It. N. KIRK (Agent).
ADELAIDE OFFICE: 62 BROOKMAN’S BUILDING, ADELAIDE—
A. W. LEWIS (Agent).
SMELTING WORKS, PORT PIRIE, S.A.
COKE WORKS. BELLAMBI, N.S.W.
PIONEER Leather Belting
The most efficient and economical power transmitter.
SOLE .
MAKERS
J. C. LUDOWICI <a SON LTD.
PIONEER WORKS, 117 YORK STREET. SYDNEY.
ELECTRIC STEEL
“ THE STEEL OF THE FUTURE.’
We make a Feature of Specially Heat-treated Steel Castings for Ore
Crusher and Rock Breaker Parts. Battery and Mill a? °
Shoes and Dies, Cams, Heads, Tappets, Rin- 1 TramvafK
topped! 3 S,eel Tpuck Wheels - We “apply any dSity hi.hmo
ALI STAGES OF MANUFACTURE UNDER MODERN SCIENTIFIC CONTROL
Australian Electric Steel Ltd
Telegraphic Address: ••Electric Steel." ALEXANDRIA, SYDNEY. ’’
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
National Bank of Australasia, Ltd. —
At the end or November last the National
of Australasia and the Colonial of Austral-
asia, both established away back in the
’fifties, joined forces, and the combination
decided to retain the title of the larger con-
cern. The first accounts of the amalga-
mated bank—covering the full half-year from
September 30, when both the old banks bal-
anced for the last time —have now been
published, and. already better net profits
show up than were ever disclosed by com-
bining the figures of the old concerns. Dis-
closed banking profits during the war period
are not to be taken too seriously, because
managements were hustling to get their
houses in order and were providing for all
sorts of contingencies. But going back <to
1014, when both the National and Colonial
showed record profits, this comparison is
possible by combining some of the figures:—
Half- Written
year to Gross ■ Off and Provi- Wet
March. Profits. Expenses, dent Fund. Profits.
1914.. £267,034 £142,948 £,BOOO £116,086
1915.. 257,480 143,938 9,000 104,542
1918 . . . 279,906 166,661 6,000 107,245
1919.. 325,479 180,380 10,000 135,099
For some years pref. and ordinary share-
holders in both banks had been receiving
divs. at the rate of 7 p.c. p.a., but the amal-
gamated bank begins its career by passing
out an 8 p.c. This calls for £24,705 for
the prefs. and £54,084 for the ordinaries,
and, after writing down premises by £lO,OOO
out of current profits, there is a substantial
margin of £56,310 left to strengthen reserves.
The basis on which the two old banks
amalgamated has already been detailed on
this page (B. 29/8/T8). It was a , compli-
cated business, on account of the two classes
of shares in each concern, and because of
the varying amounts subscribed and paid-
up. However, all difficulties were very
satisfactorily overcome, and the new bank
started with, a nominal capital of five mil-
lions, and with £1,945.300 paid—6l,762 fully
paid £lO prefs. and 265,536 ords. of £8 paid
to £5. During the past half-year a further
238 prefs. and 10,464 ordinaries have been
issued, making the paid capital a round two
millions. To effect the necessary capital
adjustments, and to compensate pref. holders
for the surrender of their preference
rights after 8 p.c. p.a. has been paid
for three years, apparently cost the new
bank £38,374. But to provide this amount
disclosed reserves have not been punctured,
the whole of it having been provided bv
bringing inner reserves into the light. At
September 30 last the National had £750,959
of reserves, and the Colonial brought over
£321,578. With £1386 of net premiums got
in by the new share issues and the £56,310
balance of current profit left after paying the 8
p.c. div. just declared, there are now visible
reserves of £1,130,233. So. with shareholders’
two millions, present funds total £3,130,233.
Other balance-sheet figures are next
shown, the. figures of the old banks again
being combined for purposes of comparison:
Liabilities.
Mar., ’l4. Mar., ’lB. Mar., ’l9.
Notes.. .. ~ £59,143 £50,667 £50,087
Bills, etc. . . . . 1,609,046 1,689,320 958,396
Free deposits ...6,346,673 8,333,880 8.896,241
Deposits at interest 8,962,283 10,253,320 11,115,865
Assets.
Liquid assets .. 6,952,477 9,276,189 7,125,448
Advances .. ..12,151,862 13,503,709 16,573,230
Premises, etc. .. 542,792 586,367 530,934
Total liabilities to the public amount to
£21,020,589 ; so the bank is working on
£6 14s. 3d. of outside money for every £1 of
its own funds. This is well within what is
regarded as a safe limit in Australia. Lately.
Government operations have somewhat dis-
turbed the normal running of the banks, the
advances figures having expanded consider-
ably to finance various produce pools and to
assist customers to take up War Loan. Also,
under the War Loan scheme, some of the
banks have unusually large holdings of Gov-
ernment deposits. However, just over one-
third of all liabilities to the public is held
liquid. To meet the £13,895,141 of debt not
represented by liquid assets, there are the
advances with a book value of £115.573,230
and premises included at £530.934. And the
National’s creditors can feel confident not
only that they are well protected, but that
the assets are worth every penny they are
shown at in the accounts, for two very in-
quisitive managements have been in each
other’s vaults overhauling the securities and
searching for any trace of white-ants. The
fact that there was no writing down in either
bank before the amalgamation is also comfort-
ing to shareholders. Instead of having to
provide some patching, the management has
clearly shown that it possesses hidden re-
sources, and apparently the £38,000-odd
shaken out to make the share adjustments is
only a crumb of the hidden loaf.
The new National begins its career with a
line sprint. Judged by the amount of de-
posits in its care, it has got into sixth place
among the 18 proprietary banks operating
in the Commonwealth—and it is a good
sixth, for several of the other shops are only
a couple of millions ahead of it. So far
the full advantages of the amalgamation have
not been attained, but gradually unnecessary
branches are being shut down and other
economies effected.
* * * *
The Co-operative Wool and Produce
Co. (Sydney):—
Bonus Added
to to lie- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Clients, serves, serves.
£ ■ £ £ £ £
June, ’O7. . 10,669 7 p.e. =1559 4523 4587 19,765
Written off securities. £2615 .. 17,150
June, ’OB.. 8,066' 7 p.c. =1560 2504 4002 21.152
Written off securities, £2840 . . 18,312
June, ’09.. 9,572 10 p.c. =2229 2924 4419 22,731
June, ’lO.. 16,482 10 „ ~2229 6283 7970 30,701
June, ’ll.. 10,779 10 „ ~3973 5311 1495 32,196
Mur., T 2. . 7,555 10 „ ~3000 3669 886 33.082
£4OO written off . . . . . . 32.682
Mar., ’13.. 5,976 6 p.c. =2400 3164 412 33,094
Mar., ’14..10,018 7 ~,,2800 3784 3434 36,528
Mar., ’15.. 3,457 7 ~,,2800 2945 34,240
Mar., ’16..10,670 7 ~,,2800 4547 3323 37,563
Mar., ’17.. 9,631 7 „ ~2800 5902 929 38,492
Mar., ’18..12,381 7 „ ~2800 8167 1414 39,906
Mar., ’19..12,106 7 ~,,2800 7264 2042 41,948
Transferred to Provident Fund, £5000.. 36,948
This co-operative concern really did better
last year than the figures indicate. Gross
earnings amounted to £41,748, compared
with £29,920 for the previous year, but the
outgoings climbed from £25.185 to £36,292.
Some of that increase, however, is due to the
management making apparently substantial
provision for taxation, but whether to meet
war-time profits tax or future taxation is not
stated. Present conditions of buying and
selling are quite abnormal, however, on
account of the Imperial purchase and Gov-
ernment control of the clip. Unless shock-
ingly managed, the intermediary concerns
simply cannot go wrong under existing
arrangements, while on account of the good
prices realised the old commission rates bring
in much more now than they used to. Of
the commissions charged by the Co-op. Wool
and Produce Co. last year £7264 has been
handed back, representing a rebate of 25 p.c.
of the wool- and 20 p.c'/of the produce-selling
commissions. One creditable feature of this
concern is that the small man is not penal-
ised because he is a small man. The Asso-
ciated rate varies between 14 and 24 p.c.,
but small and large consignors are both billed
at 11 p.c., and get their rebates as well.
Paid capital is £40,000, and just at present,
owing to the abnormal conditions, the to.
owes no less than six times that amount,
almost covered on the other side by debts
due, a large proportion of it owing by the Gov-
ernment, no douot. Storage accommodation,
plant and office equipment stand in the books
at £72,376, and there is £14,082 in War Loan
and cash. Incidentally, the management
prQposes to establish a provident scheme for
its employees, and shareholders are to be
asked to drop in £5OOO right away, and in-
crease the total to £15,000 by instalments
from future profits.
* * * #
Standard-Waygood-Hercules, Ltd., for-
merly the Standard-Waygood. Ltd., an amal-
gamation of four or more Sydney businesses,
whose chief object is to put in and look
after lifts and electrical machinery (goodwill,
£15,000 to start with) :
Towards
Mar., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
1910. . £11,078 124 p.e. =£5,750 £5,328 £9,672
Premiums on new shares.. 5,825 3,847
Reserves.
1911.. 17,274 124 p.c. = 10,080 7,194 3,347
Premiums on new shares.. 6,675 10,022
1912.. 19,970 20 p.c. = 19,345 625 10,647
1913.. 21,372 124 v, „ 14,062 7,310 17,957
Unexplained additions to reserves 1,969 19,926
1914.. 35,725 124 p.c. = 19,547 16,178 36,104
1915.. 23,215 124 „ ~19,547 3,668 39,772
Written off book debts and securities, £9286 30,486
1916.. 6,152 10 p.c. = 15,638 21,000
1917.. 16,268 10 „ „ 16,888 20,380
1918.. 16,925 10 „ „ 16,888 37 20,417
1919.. 16,993 10 „ „ 16,888 105 20,522
The directors of this co. always have some-
thing interesting to say in their reports, but
when it comes to figures they are not nearly
so talkative. Shareholders are told that
net profits are so-and-so, but exactly how
the result is arrived at is not stated. Since
the building boom collapsed new jobs have
been somewhat scarce, while several con-
tracts entered into a couple of years ago have
only just been fulfilled or have not yet been
completed owing to building delays. It
would be interesting to know exactly how
increased costs have affected the results of
some of these delayed undertakings. Besides
installing and repairing lifts, the co. also
manufactures, and there are works in three
Sydney suburbs. Judging by the hesitancy
of the directors in extending manufacture,
the profits from this side of the business are
apparently nothing out of the way. Also
nowadays there is over £48,000 in invest-
ments to help dividends. But apart from
these sources of income, the profits for any
particular year also depend on the valua-
tions at which stock, etc., are included in
the balance-sheet. Prior to 1917 stock and
work in progress were taken in “at cost or
under” ; last year “at valuation and cost”;
now stock is given “at valuation,” and work
in progress “at cost.” It would thus seem
probable that some of the profits shown since
1917 have been due to taking credit for the
appreciation in the value of materials pur-
chased before prices soared- —a proceeumg
which was quite all right so long as a safe
margin was allowed for any possible slump.
However, if disclosed profits have benefited
in this way, the effect has been only to fill
in the holes created by maintaining double-
figure dividend distributions. As the table
shows, during the past four years the co. has
handed out a few pounds more than the
directors claimed was earned.
This gives a view of the position from
another angle:—
1915. 1917. 1918. 1919.
Capital .. £156,379 £168,734 £168.879 £168,879
Liabilities .. 30,848 15,981 18,017 16.561
Property and
plant.. .. 57,800 54,500' 53,500 56,042
Stock ; and work 90,492: 97,756 94,319 77,286
Book debts and
all other assets 90,435 72,726 76,383 89,521
Thus the co. is very comfortable, but it is
not making any visible progress. How-
ever, the congested city is bound to move
skywards, and when building operations
begin again the management will no doubt
find a lot of new work. The co. had a fine
run during its first six years, and besides
paying handsome dividends (the average
was almost 14 p.c. p.a. to 1915), almost
£37,000 of profit was kept in the business,
in addition to the £12,500 got in from new
share premiums. Whether the future will
be as prosperous as the early years were is
doubtful. With a crushing war debt to
meet, another building boom of the 1912-14
variety is not likely for many a day. The
Standard- Waygood-Hercules should, never-
theless, be able to do fairly well without the
assistance of booms.
Permewan, Wright and Co., Ltd.,
carriers, etc., of Melbourne and elsewhere,
from the time £12,500 of capital was written
off::—
. . . To
Jan., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1909 .. £1,797 5 p.c. =£2500 £3,127
1910 .. 3,532 5 „ „ 2500 £1032 4,159
1911 .. 5,562 6., „ 3000 2562 6,721
1912 .. 5,594 6 „ ~ 3000 2594 9,315
1913 .. 7,689 6 „ „ 3000 4689 14,004
1914 . . 9,340 8 „ „ 4000 5340 19,344
1915 .. 5,510 7 ~ „ 3500 2010 21,354
1916 . . 3,804 7 „ ~ 3500 304 21,658
1917 .. 3,022 51 ~ „ 2750 272 21,930
1918 .. 5,614 7 ~' „ 3500 2114 24,044
1919 .. 10,973 10 „ ~ 5000 5973 30,017
This concern depends on the Outback for its
living ; so profits are as erratic as the sea-
sons and the flow of the Murray. Lately the
back country has been doing fairly well, and
the wool people in particular have been en-
joying a fat time. So profit-earning has
been fairly easy and the co. has experienced
a record year. Still, in a business so widely
scattered exes, are necessarily heavy; it cost
£03,788 (including £2247 for depreciation)
to earn £73,857 last year. Working costs
have been mounting steadily, but on account
of the favorable season just experienced
there is a solid margin left,for shareholders.
Later on, when lean years are again experi-
enced, it seems certain that the increased
exes, will add to the management’s difficul-
ties. However, shareholders have never
been greedy, and in the good years substan-
tial additions have been made to reserves.
Since 1909 dividends have averaged 6f p.c.
on a capital written down from £62,500 to
£50,000, but meantime surplus profit amount-
ing to more than half the present paid capi-
tal has been stored up. And every penny
of it has been required for the business, too.
Like all concerns dealing with sheep- and
wheat-coekies, it has to give a lot of credit,
and to carry this load the co. in turn has to
lean on other people. This shows the posi-
tion :—•
T • , ...,. 1909. 1914. 1918. 1919.
Liabilities.. . . £26,590 £40,184 £51,681 £71,455
Assets —•
Plant and property 37,053 49,683 39,757 40 882
Book debts .. 36,163 41,413 60,066 77,’246
Merchandise .. 7,274 17,828 23,144 31,001
Cash, etc... .. 1,727 3,106 4,759 5,343
So, while paid capital is £50,000, no less
than £77,246 is owing by clients; and on
the other side the co. is working on an over-
£2s,lol, £2BOO of deposits, and owes
£43.554 on trade accounts, etc. Though
liabilities look heavy, creditors are well pro-
tected, for there is a surplus of more or less
j- l io ll -i < oK aSSe ll over Abilities amounting to
±42,135. Book debts are apparently a good
lot, for they are included "after making pro-
vision for all bad and doubtful debts.” The
management, having once before been caught
with over-valued plant, is very cautious in
the matter nowadays, and there are periodi-
cal valuations, the latest overhaul having
been made only a few months back. So the
position from shareholders’ point of view is
also snug; after meeting all liabilities and
paying the current div. there are assets with
a book value of almost £1 12s. sd. to repre-
sent each £1 share.
Pyrotan Leather, Ltd., tanners, leather
manufacturers, etc. (Melbourne). The de-
ficit of £28,557 with which the new co. began
was made up of goodwill £27,437, patent
rights £lOOO, and preliminary exes. £l2O: —
To Reduce
Profits. Dividends. Deficit. Deficit.
£28,557
1916 .. £1062 Nil £1062 27,495
1917 . . 2408 Nil 2408 25,087
1918 .. 3744 Nil 3744 21,343
Goodwill £27,422, patent rights £lOO0 —
that’s a heavy load for a paid capital of
£35,594 to carry. But prior to the recon-
struction hinted at above, the position was
even worse. The original co. started with
a nominal capital of £40,000 in 4000 shares
of £lO each. For passing over the Austra-
lian rights of the “Pyrotan” process, at the
time claimed to be “the most profitable dis-
covery in the leather world,” the Fitzroy
Tanning Co., of Maoriland, received 300
fully-paids and £3OOO in cash ; a tannery firm
obliged with its freehold, buildings and plant
for 250 fully-paids, £5OOO in cash and £2500
in 0 p.c. debentures. A further 1000 fully-
paids went to the promoters, who held the
rights of purchase of the above assets, and
a further 300 went to the underwriters. In
acquiring property, plant and rights the co.
was thus committed to ladling out 1850
shares and £BOOO in cash and starting with
a debenture debt of £2500. The public was
invited to take up 1500 shares, which if fully
paid would have provided the management
with a working capital of under £7OOO, with
a debenture liability of £2500 to be met in
live years. It was a hopeless start, for not
only were the funds available for getting to
work too small, but the show was over-
capitalised. The people who put up good
cash soon decided that something would have
to be done to prevent disaster; so the co.
was run into the office of James Mackay,
who knows everything worth knowing about
company floats. For a start the concern
was put into liquidation to increase the nomi-
nal capital and to get in further cash. Also
assets were apparently revalued, and the
deficiency temporarily tacked on to goodwill.
Then some of the original vendor interests
were bought at one-fourth of the amount at
which they came into the concern. The new
management has not completed the clean-up
yet, as the writing down of capital and the
sweeping away of most of the goodwill froth
has not been proceeded with, probably be-
cause the absurd War-time Profits Tax offers
no encouragement for a struggling young co.
to put its affairs on a better profit-earning
basis. How much capital will eventuallv
have to go The Bulletin does not know,
but apparently the goodwill item of £27,422
contains next to nothing of anv saleable
value.
No figures are available to show how the
1 yrotan fared prior to the reconstruction;
but there is evidence that it had a disastrous
time. New leather processes are common
enough, but for various technical reasons
they are usually not worth much. Certainly
most of the prospectus claims were merely
hot-air. It was claimed that in one line
alone (emphasised in black letters) a turn-
over of 350 hides per week would produce
belting and by-products giving a working
profit of almost £20,000 per annum. Nowa-
day?’ the Pyrotan process is apparently only
a side-line of the business—used chiefly in
manufacturing furniture leathers !—and the
co. is trying to get its living from the old
bark and chrome processes. The recon-
structed co. had a difficult time at first—the
additional capital got in was insufficient and
the management had to lean on the bank.
But it is gradually improving its position
and has bndt up a good connection. There
is nothing fat about the Australian tanning
industry, but other cos. have been able to
earn good profits, and there is no reason
why, under good management. Pyrotan
shareholders should not see dividends 'before
.ong. One feature of the industry is that
very little capital is tied up in plant.
* * * *
Robert Reid and Co., Ltd.—This whole-
sale soft-goods co. has hitherto had its head-
quarters in London, though the numerous
Australian family of the old Vic. politician
held most of the ordinary shares: it was the
prefs. and the debentures that London
bought. The war made a difference. John
Bull began to hit up his income tax, and. as
the co. s profits were earned wholly or almost
wholly in Australia, the Commonwealth, of
course, wanted a bite too. Like a good


Every large firm or factory has a repair shop—
every small establishment will find it profitable lO
have at least a few tools driven by G.E. Electric
Motors, which are ideal for repair-shop work, because
they occupy but little spaqe, do not get out of
order, involve no fire hazard, can be operated by any-
one, are always ready to run and can be stopped or
started instantly. Haven’t you work for at least one
small G.E. motor? Australian General Electric Com-
any Wentworth Avenue, Sydney; and corner of
Queen and Little Collins Streets, Melbourne. — Advt.
Your live stock need- pure drinking water just as
much as humans do. See they get it! Fall in
line with the big cattle salesmen —leading water-
supply boards, town councils and stations —use
Aluminoferrie for purifying the water in your wells,
dams and tanks. Aluminoferrie quickly causes all
impurities to precipitate, leaving the water clear,
fresh and wholesome. Sold by storekeepers the
country over. Full particulars and prices free from
William Adams & Co. Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth. — Advt. [1
The latest copper-smelting plant to be erected in
Australia is that of the Mount Cuthbert Company
in North Queensland. It consists of buildings, power-
plant with boilers, generating sets and blowers,
blast furnace, copper converters and converter re-
fining plant, blister gathering and cleaning shed,
also steel bins for ore and coke. Wherever possible
the plant is electrically driven. The whole of the
plant was supplied by the Austral Otis Engineering
Co. of Melbourne, who have made numerous smelting
plants working in Australia at present.— Advt. [2
* * * *
Pioneer Wood S*ave Pipe.—A Record Delivery!
An order for 2* miles of Bin. Pioneer Wood
Stave Pipe from* the N. S. Wales Government
Railways and Tramways was recently completed
in a period of eight days. The above
pipes were required urgently to convey water to
the township of Goulburn, where the reservoir was
nearly depleted. We are prepared to supply large
quantities of Wood Stave Pipe at short notice. Send
for illustrated Catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe
Co. Ltd. (Head Office), Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove,
N.S.W. P.O. Address: Box 1570 G.1’.0., Sydney.
Contractors to all State Governments. — Advt.^
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink’s Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Ceil. 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723.— Advt.
♦ * * *
Lottoid Hard Wall Plaster Sheets for inner walls,
ceilings and partitions, are the best material for
such purposes possible of attainment. The surface
of these sheets is snow-white and glass-smooth, will
not rub off, and shows no trace of fibre. Lottoid
Sheets never crack or fall like old-fashioned plaster,
but are artistic, durable and economical, whiteant-
and vermin-proof. Made in 24 convenient sizes.
Price, 2/6 per sq. yd., or we will be pleased to
quote you Lottoid fixed by our experts. Write for
post free Catalog “B.” Spriggs’ Asbestolite Com-
pany, 338 Pitt Street, Sydney.— Advt. [1
* * * *
The manufacture of 'Skandia” Crude Oil Engines
in Australia, both marine and industrial types, is
receiving the recognition that the enterprise deserves.
The Federal Government has placed an order for a
large marine set, and their example has been followed
by several of the largest trading firms in Australia,
Tasmania, the Pacific Islands and Dutch East Indies.
The workmanship of the Australian “Skandia” com-
pares with any imported engine on the market.
Write Nelson & Robertson, Loi'tus Street, Sydney.—
Advt.
* * * *
Build “Leplastrier” long-lasting, modern machin-
ery-made roads. Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Head
Office, Sydney.— Advt.
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B. Selby Si Co.,
Ltd., 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street, Melb. — Advt.
T. H. Palmer, 8.E., Fel. Chem. Soc., etc., consult-
ing engineer, valuing, organising, technical advice,
mining, metallurgy, flotation and selective flotation
processes, Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 *Mtt
Street, Sydney. Cables and Telegrams: “Remlap,
Melbourne.”— Advt.
UUB BfiHtf U*.
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Loss oi Proiits
Insure in
n* 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
CF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital . • £250,000
Subscribed Capital .. 194,235
Paid-up Capital .. 96,497
income (Cross) 1918 .. 457,852
Established 1910.
ACENTS WANTED,
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
\V. K. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
The British Westmghouse Electric 81 M?g. Co., Ltd.
Westinghouse
Magnetic Brakes
With improved skid-proof attachment, absolutely
prevents skidding even at the highest speeds.
SPECIAL FEATURES»
Immediate and powerful action.
The wheels cannot be skidded.
Prevents motor “ flashing oyer.”
Reduces destructive arcing in the controller,. and
materially reduces the strain of. the car insu-
lation by preventing the voltage in the braking
circuit from reaching dangerously high values.
Head Office for Australia
QUEENSLAND BUILDING, 84, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
Works—Traflord Park, Manchester. England.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire•
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
SPECIAL NOTICE.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited.
REGISTRATION OF DEBENTURES AND FEDERAL INCOME TAX.
mHE Comoanv would remind Holders of Debentures that a Register has been established, and the
-L Registration of Debentures may be effected at any time without cost. _ Debenture is
The advantage of holding a Registered Debenture as against an unregistered Bearer DeDeniu e
obvious but registration also relieves the holder from the liability of having a material deduction
made b’v the Company of Federal Income Tax from each Interest Coupon. iq( i for
Under the Act (see Section 16, Federal Income Tax 1915-1918) the Company may be
Income Tax on all Debentures remaining unregistered, and such assessment, if made at the
rate of tax, would amount to about 235. per £3 Coupon. is made
The inconvenience to which holders of Bearer Debentures will be put if such a ded ■ ] be
can be avoided if thev change their debentures to “Registered” Debentures, which may, it lequireu,
reconverted to “Bearer” Debentures at any time also without charge. interest
This change , to be effective, should be made prior to the Ist July, 1919 9 when
pavmente b(? lod^ed at the Company’s Office, Equitable Building, Melbourne, for the pur-
poses of Registration and Endorsement, and must have Coupons attache. DICKENSON, Secretary.
28th February, 1919. r - “• "
many others Robert Reid and Co. found that,
though it might be “swank” to be an Englisn
co., the thing had its drawbacks. it was
therefore proposed to re-form the co. with
the offiee in Australia; but there were dith-
culties about even that. What was eventu-
ally done was to register a co. in Melbourne,
offering £150,000 6 p.c. mortgage debenture
stock to repay a like amount of debenture
stock in the old co., and 200.000 t p.c. cumu-
lative pref. £1 shares. There are also
600,000 ordinaries; but “of the ordinary
shares the first issue will be 400,000, ot
which 440,184 will be taken up by the
holders of ordinary shares of the vendor co.
The balance is not now offered.” '> hat is
reallv being done is to buy out the old prefs.
(£200,000) and debenture holders (£150,000).
In the old co. there were 220,092 ordinaries.
These, in effect, get two new Shares for one in
the old co. But what they get in that way is
not very material. Whatever their shares they
are entitled to all the profits after the stock
and prefs. are satisfied: and the most these
two lots are entitled to is £23,000 a year.
The prospectus, drawn certainly by a lawyer
and not by a broker, leaves many things
vague. The vendor co.’s balance-sheet as
at July 19, 1918. exhibited a surplus of assets
over liabilities of £814,245, or. exclusive of
goodwill, £742,760. Yet, so far as the pros-
pectus shows, the whole purchase money is
£640,184, which seems to mean that the 5$
p.c. prefs. in the old co. are going to get par
and the ordinaries £2 per share. Those who
like to come into the new co. can. Pretty
clearly the promoters( the vendor co.) might
liave got a bigger price; but if, for instance,
the old ordinaries had got £3 per share,
some of them might have preferred the cash
rather than the investment in the new co.
As it is they get for their £1 what on paper
at any rate is worth 255.. without reckoning
in goodwill at all. On the other hand, the
under-capitalisation is likely to mean an over-
large rate of dividend. The profits were, of
course, simply shocking last year: 1916.
£65,380; 1917, £68,338; 1918, £109,054.
Seeing that debenture stock and prefs., as
mentioned above, call for only. £23,000 a
year, the security is so extraordinarily good
that it isn’t surprising that the 7 p.c. cumu-
lative investment was almost wolfed by the
market.
* * * *
Castlemaine Brewery and Wood (New-
castle) is having still another internal com-
motion. Lately general sec. Hall, of the
Sydney Travellers’ Club, was appointed
manager at about £l5OO a year; and a meet-
ing of shareholders has been called on requi-
sition, to, among other things,, declare that
“the action of the directors in appointing
a new manager from outside is most un-
warranted” and censure the directors accord-
ingly-
Cobar (N.S.W.). thrown on its beam-ends
by Hughes’s “solution of the metal problem”
under the tutelage of J. M. Higgins (who
got a knighthood for his services), has done
the very sensible thing of projecting a small
mineral exploration co. If Cobar doesn t.
get a new lease of life, property-owners in
the copper town will lose a bit, and so will
business people. The new co. may give
them a chance. And there are better pro-
spects than in most districts. As the pro-
moters say, though the prospector has been
over the district napping rocks for 50 years,
the C.S.A. wasn’t a mine till 1905 and the
Gladstone till 1908. M. J. Ilackett, of
Cobar, is the secretary.
* * * *
Mt. Cuthbert has been experiencing very
heavy weather financially, but is in smooth
water in respect to ore reserves. The
directors’ statement of the position just
published needs expanding, however. In
Aug., 1918, R. W. Powell reported 120,000
tons of ore, containing 7800 tons copper.
Up to then 79.107 tons had gone to the
smelter for 4374 tons blister. _ Now the
total ore smelted amounts to 91,855 tons for
5206 tons blister. On Feb. 28 last S.
Harris, the new man in charge, gave an
estimate of 100.000 tons, containing 5910
tons copper. The first 13,000 tons sent to
Mt. Elliott was 9 p.c. stuff. Reserves now
average practically only 6 p.c., distributed
over the properties in this way:—
Copper Con-
Tons Ore. tents, tons.
Mount Cuthbert . . 25,000 1500
Kalkadoon . . .. 62.000 3400
Orphan.. .. •• 10,000 800
Mighty Atom .. .. 3,000 210
100,000 5910
In the Kalkadoon estimate is included
35,000 tons of 2 p.c. limestone flux. Elim-
inating that, there remain at the Kalkadoon
25,000 tons of 10 p.c. ore, the result of the
new find, and 2000 tons of the same grade
in the old shoot. Harris regards the new
strike as a development that opens up a
new mine both for the district and the co.
He doesn’t add that if it hadn’t happened
along Cuthbert’s cake would have been poor
dough. Redemption eame_ to the Kalka-
doon in crosscutting at 150 ft. west, and
running into 13 p.c. ore over a width of
20ft. The drives north and south on this
new shoot carry an even bigger width of
first-class ore. Hence Harris's estimate of
25.000 tons of 10 p.c. material above loOft.
At 250 ft., where the same shoot has been
proved by crosscut, the width is 31ft., and
drives show a grade of up to 10 p.c.
the strike is decidedly helpful, especially
when the reduction in other reserves is
realised. ...
But what staggers is the financial situa-
tion The loss on the six months work runs
out at £22,400, against £3742 for the August
six months and £4648 a year ago. Here is
the present financial position
Stoc k s L on Q ha D nd A55ET 124,607 | Deb"’ £55,000
Copper on hand i! 87*1« Deferred[Creditors 22,932
items .. 2.545 I 24,098
£64,964 i £160,294
The situation may have been improved smce
the balance by calls received. But it all makes
very sad reading, considering that 32,000
tons ore have been smelted, and a wad ot
fresh capital raised. Of course the co has
its Diant, which cost £120,000, and it has
100,000 tons of 6 p.c. ore; but the plain
situation is that it has to net over ilo P
ton of the copper in reserve to wipe the
slate clean. Some salvation can come from
a boost in the metal market, combined with
cheap freight, cheaper smelting charges and
higher labor efficiency. But the necessity
is to double ore reserves. The question is
whether shareholders will hang on till all
these factors operate. Their ray of hope is
that the Kalkadoon No. 2 may average 10
p.c., with the shoot as big as at 1501 t.
Another hope is that shaft sinking at the
Cuthbert itself will give another good level.
Another small comfort for shareholders is
that the show has drifted so far to the bad
that creditors simply cannot afford to let it
go, and must continue to provide the neces-
sary props. # ,
The shipping strike has added to Mt. Mor-
gan’s troubles, and the management has
hoisted distress signals. For seven months
now Morgan has been unable to M its cop-
per, but by sending blister with higher gold
values to the refinery it ha? been r. 1 le to con-
tinue production. Now it cannot ship at all,
so the market for the gold is temporarily
closed also. Lately the cost of production
has been £M3 per ton copper, but.; old has
returned £5O of this. If the shipping striae
is not settled quickly, Morgan will have to
shut down.
Clark’s, Charters Towers, is no longer a
market favorite, because its once rich little
reef has become lightly mineralised and
even poor in patches. A crushing of bOJ
tons in April yielded gold, concentrates and
residues worth £3767. Clark’s did very well
to maintain a large output from a small
reef • but the crushings have gradually
become poorer. The old Hidden. Treasure
workings are now drained, and it will be
possible to do some prospecting there.
Bix months back New Langi Logan,
Ararat ( Vic.), had 10,000 fathoms or wash
drained off No. 1 shaft and 5000 fathoms
west off No. 2 shaft. The values
given by Toole were loz. and
per fathom respectively. Taking lodwt.
to cover costs —and they cannot be
much less—then the profit in sight is
£22 000, which, spread over 100.000 shares,
is” roughly 4s. 6d. per share. To get that
far £130,000 has been swallowed by working
account and £25,000 has gone in plant. But
the 4s Gd. per share is somewhat mythical
until proof is given that, with wages and
costs on the scale of to-day, the co. can got
tliG work done for less tli&n the full oz. Since
these estimates were made, ToOle has proved
a fair-sized block of additional payable wash
at about the junction of the Cathcart and
Langi gutters. Here work to the east of No.
1 rise from the north branch-reef drive run-
ning along the course of the Langi gutter
is demonstrating that the lead extends to
well beyond its supposed eastern limits, with
pay-dirt showing in the face. . This would
be much more pleasant reading if weekly
costs were being got down, but the trial
made with Cobar men hasn’t helped the out-
put, owing to the miners being unaccustomed
to wash-work. Toole is now trying to win
old alluvial hands back from the ranks of the
stranded at Broken Hill. Bryant is out
to do likewise for his show. Both want
contractors, not wage-hands_, as it doesn’t
pay to put the latter into deep lead faces.
With such bidding labor may get its terms,
for there isn’t a shareholder who cares a con-
tinental what happens so long as yields can
be jigged up to get a lively market and ease
up calls.
* * * *
Bold at Bendigo for under 3d. apiece
60,000 forfeited shares in Dyason’s Amal-
gamated co. A swag of this scrip repre-
sents the wade-out of the paid-up holder in
merged cos. That bird has been sitting on
the rail ever since Dyason took hold, and as
the outlook is for odd calls he prefers to flit
rather than nay. One believer in Dyason
surprised buyers by clearing the market of
40,000 shares in one lot, possibly because
developments at the Constellation and Car-
lisle look a lot more promising. Still, Ben-
digo’s yield is small potatoes nowadays, as
the past four months’ output was only
23,0000 z., against 48,0000 z. for the corres-
ponding term in 1915.
* * * *
It seems certain that Federation Tin, the
Heemskirk (Tas.) proposition recently intro-
duced to the mainland, is to be given a go,
a large wad of the 60,000 shares offered hav-
ing already been taken up. The properties
were scratched without success in the long
ago, but were worked in four pieces as the
Cumberland, and the East, West and New
West Cumberlands. One show held the
best ground, another the water rights, and
generally things were at sixes and sevens.
Later the present vendor. J. 11. S. Munro,
acquired the whole of the areas, and some
years ago an English crowd was about to
take them on when some minor international
disturbance gave them cold feet. Various
negotiations have been proceeding during
recent years, and the present float is the out-
come. A low-grade show, its value lies in
the magnitude of its tonnage. J. B. Lewis,
judging from what he saw in the various
workings, reckons on at least a million tons
of 1 p.c. ore available. The deepest level
is at 275 ft, and it is left to the co. to find
out what lies below.
Royal George tin, Avoca (Tas.), has raised
its capital from Bs. 6d. to 10s. Od. per share,
and with the £5OOO thus made available the
management hopes to get a move again.
Before the mill closed down about 160 tons
crudes had to be treated to produce a ton
of concentrates. The lode is 30ft. wide in
places, with values bordering on i p.c. tin.
The Royal George had to fight hard for a
living with tin at a good price, and it had
more than its share of labor troubles.
* * * *
Golden Horseshoe (W.A.) is under a
cloud. Recent progress reports have been
somewhat sick, and, as tonnage, output
and profits have been falling away
lately, many interested persons, particularly
those who hold mortgages on Boulder prop-
erties, are wondering what’s up. _ The line
of reef on which the Horseshoe is situated
has always been, and still is, the backbone
of the Golden Mile, and if anything serious
happened to it there wouldn’t be much left
in Kalgoorlie worth talking about.
* * * *
A wail from an old Westralian prospec-
tor :
Mining men in the West, from the Golden Mile
manager to the oldest prospector, are feeling desper-
ate about the State’s gold outlook. Things are going
from bad to worse, and while yields are back-
pedalling, costs—particularly of mining supplies—
continue to mount. There has been much talk of
what the Government intends to do to revive the
industry, but no attempt is made to overhaul the
administration of the Mines Department. W ith a
capable and sympathetic Minister at the head of
this Department, the industry would have a good
fighting chance of recovery; for there would be no
profiteering in mine supplies, etc., while the pros-
pector would get a fair run. Assistance to prospec-
tors is claimed to be one of the Department’s chief
attributes, but the interminable nature of the pro-
ceedings to obtain relief disgusts the hard-up battler,
and he gravitates to the city. But what can be
expected when almost every Ministry since Respon-
sible Government has committed the care of this
important Department to men least equipped for the
job? Here is the list —
Lefrov. who, on being allotted the portfolio in the
early ’nineties, said he had once been down a well.
He has just been scrapped after a career of marked
ineptitude at Premier.
“Ten-foot Ned” Wittenoom, notorious for the regu-
lation limiting the depth at which alluvial miners
should work to 10 feet. His knowledge ran mostly
to sheep and racehorses.
Gregory qualified for the job by ladling out
tanglefoot in his pub at Menzies.
Hastie, now dead, is awarded a charitable silence.
Johnson plied the trade of Joseph of Nazareth
until he became an M.L.A.
Collier lent lustre to the professions of navvying,
corporation-laboring, and a few months of under-
ground work at the Golden Mile, previous to start-
ing out to save the country.
Robinson was a typical illustration of an energetic
lawyer butting in where a practical mining man
would fear to tread.
Hudson, another attorney.
And now we have Robinson again.
J. L. Strevens, the English oil chemist
who has been mixing oil, brown-coal and
“blackboy” during the past couple of years,
is off to London and N’York on a briquetting
scheme. If negotiations are successful,
works for manufacturing briquettes and by-
products are on the orogramme for Morwell
(Vic.) and Collie (W.A.).
* * * *
“Otira” : There is enough coal in sight on
the West Coast of Maoriland to keep the
home fires burning for many years to come.
Yet the imports of Australian coal have in-
creased, while the local output has fallen
off. The reason is alleged to be a shortage
of miners; wherefore a special delegate of
the Government was sent to Australia to
induce both gold- and coal-miners to come
across to Maoriland. He didn’t succeed. The
fact is most of the men want the mines
nationalised, and they are going slow till the
change is wrought. Incidentally, this winter
is going to be the chilliest one in many a
M.L. home, unless the old-fashioned log
comes to the rescue.


“PEACE HATH HER VICISSITUDES NO LESS RENOWNED THAN WAR.”


ÜbPlNa?
PERTH A»0 LONDON
Use a genuine, high-grade
Australian Product in
FAULDING’S
Medicinal
EPSOM SALTS.
SPECIALLY REFINED AND
GUARANTEED PURE.
Sold in loz. Packets, lib. Cartons, and Bulk
in lcwt. cases.
LOOK FOR THE BLUE LABEL.
Manufactured and refined in Australia by
F. H. FAULDING & CO.,
Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane
and London.
Deaf?
Without good hearing you are greatly handi-
capped, and the fact is brought home to you
every day. Why remain deaf? The
Acousticon
10 Days’
FREE TRIAL
will safely and surely enable you to hear.
Over 330,000 delighted users, including the
Prime Minister, Mr. Hughes, who is using
his “Aeousticon” at the Peace Conference.
Write for 10 Days’ Free Trial. No deposit,
no obligation. Convince yourself at our
expense, and DON’T STAY DEAF! New stocks
arrived.
Lamson
St ore 0. 102 Caking House. SYDNEY
Service » Older-fleet, Cobins St.,MELB
N.Z.: John Procter, ZOO High St., Christc’h.
W.A.: 11. Little & Co., 851 Hay Street, Perth.
THE
Hotel Sydney
(SYDNEY)
Is one of the largest, most modern
and best equipped in Australia.
It is,situated opposite the Railway Station
and is central to everywhere.
ACCOMMODATION FOR 400 GUESTS.
Quiet, Cool and Comfortable.
Hot and Cold Water, Day and Night, in every
Bedroom.
Half an acre of Glorious Roof
Garden.
Tariff from 12/6 per day.
Have you Lunched or Dined at the “Sydney”?
Management E. T. CHEESEMAN.
wmmm
The
finest
TOBACCO
In
two forms—
Plug-Slice
or
Ready-Rubbed.
EDGEWORTH”
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Death has shown a curious bias in its
periodical runs through the Federal Parlia-
ment. From 1909 to 1915 Hutchison,
Batchelor. Beard. Fraser, Roberts, Senator
McGregor, Senator Russell, Howe, Arthur,
and Jolley, fill Laborites, went under to the
unwelcome visitor. Now the Great Reaper
has moved to the other side of the House,
and so far Salmon, Forrest, Reid and Mani-
fold have been retired from the fray.
Fifty-four feet of stalwart manhood is
no poor legacy for a woman to leave her
country. Mrs. Fred Helmers, who died
lately at Bombala (N.S.W.), aged 66, reared
nine sons, each over 6ft. long.
From the Gallery :
One grieves to notice the absence of “Sir Elliot
Johnson” from the list of birthday honors, and 1
understand that Precedent rebels against a flagrant
omission. If it is a fact that every Federal Speaker
of a couple of years’ sitting deserves a knighthood,
then Johnson is entitled to a feeling of injury. He
has carried on his job with conspicuous fairness and
courage in many difficult situations. Also he has
maintained the dignity of the horsehair and mace
against all ridicule. It is not everybody who can
adhere to the archaic flummery of his office with a
solemnity impregnable to jest and insult; but John-
son has done it time and again with his immemorial
calm. Politically and personally he doesn’t count,
but he has shown a deep regard for Privilege, and
it is up to Privilege to return the compliment.
“Cobber”: Youngest Aussie in the Big
Scrap? Enter Private Edgar Saul, a 14-
year-old native of Hobart. This young
giant, who has a stiff knee, first enlisted in
the Speck’s capital, but was dismissed on his
dad pointing out his age and the permanence
of his knee injury. The kid then ducked
out and worked his passage to the Cold
Country on the barque Bright Taylor and
Co. He joined the Worcesters at 14 and
4 months, and arrived in France on his loth
birthday. It took him 18 months to develop
shell-shock. After a spell in Blighty lie
returned to the Front with the Royal Engi-
neers, but the armistice beat him. Now a
sergeant in the R.E., he is a war veteran 17-J
years of age with three years of service.
From the nublic gallery :
They sit facing one another from extreme ends of
the hall —one dark, thin and nervous; the other
fair, burly and self-possessed. One speaks haltingly.
His meaning is never quite clear. His thinking
apparatus gets in a knot very quickly and disen-
tangles slowly. The stout man’s mind moves easily,
mainly because he knows exactly what he wants.
He always has the ready word. He expresses him-
self briefly. He never misses the point. This is
A. C. Willis, President of the Coal and Shale Miners’
Federation, leader of the advanced Socialist section.
The thin one is Lambert, President of the Sydney
Trades Conference, one of the “moderates.” As they
sit there to-day at the annual conference of the
N. S. Wales Labor Party, Lambert knows that, on
the division to be taken in an hour or two, Willis
will be beaten. But he knows, too, that the margin
"will be only a dozen votes, and when he sees the
/crowd of politicians on whom the “moderates” have
to depend for a majority, he looks more un-
happy than ever. The critical moment comes—
Willis’s motion in favor of a downright declaration
by Labor of a Socialist objective is beaten by 127 to
112. Lambert, with drawn face, announces the
figures, and drops into his chair like a man who
has just missed a bullet. Willis grins benevolently.
He is more than satisfied. John Storey and Jimmy
Catts and Jupp Gardiner look thoughtfully down
their respective noses.
From G. H. Blakemore: —
Freeman and his eight days’ fast is nothing to
boast about. A. E. Morgans, of Westralia, a very
well known man in the mining and political world,
once fasted 35 days, and dqring that time he drank
only about one quart of water daily. He had to
reduce his weight. When he commenced his starva-
tion he weighed 19st.; when he finished he weighed
13st. He told me that on the last day of his fast
he w r as able without any difficulty to lift a weight
of over 1001 b. from the floor to a table, showing
that his muscular strength had not been appreciably
affected. The first four days of his fast were the
worst; he admitted to me that the smell of food
during that time tried his determination very much.
Nowadays, in lieu of medicine, he does not hesitate
to go on fast from seven to 21 days. Mr. Mor-
gans is a man of fine physique, about sft. 9in. tall—
the type of man that could wear out the 6ft. man
any day. Freeman’s fast was a mere theatrical ex-
hibition and served its end.
Prompted by Alec Peacock, George
Turner gave a start in life to Bert Lloyd,
now a brigadier-general, by appointing him
a junior clerk in the Federal Treasury in
1901. The Treasury was then on the second
floor of the main State Public Offices in
Melbourne, where the Vic. Defence Depart-
ment used to be located. For want of room
elsewhere Lloyd was perched on a high stool
in the corridor to check accounts and write
letters. Military science was his recrea-
tion, and after a while he got a transfer to
his neighbor, the Defence Department.
When the war broke out he was off the mark
quickly, and is now among the brass hats.
His dad, the late Sergt. Lloyd, was police
orderly to several Premiers, and accom-
panied Turner to England when Queen Vic.
was celebrating her diamond jubilee 22 years
ago.
A POPULAR MEDIUM.
“Mr. Hughes is sitting to Sir William Orpen, A.R.A., for his portrait.”— Cable.
THE ARTIST: “ Have you been done much in oil ?”
MR. HUGHES: “ No ! But I’ve been done a of a lot in vitriol!”
Henry Briggs, President of the Leg.
Council of Westralia, who passed into the
Shades on Sunday, was 75. For many
years he was head dominie of Fremantle
Grammar; thence to politics, entering the
Upper House in 1896. After an apprentice-
ship as Chairman of Committees he was
escorted to the President’s dais in 1906.
He was one of W.A.’s silent reps, in the
Convention which framed the Federal Con-
stitution.
The headmastership of St. Peter’s, Adel-
aide, vacant since 1915, has been filled at
last by the appointment of Julian Bicker-
steth. (It has to be held by an Anglican
clergyman; otherwise it would have gone to
the second master and present acting head,
Ainslie Caterer.) The choice was entrusted
to a lot of headmasters and bishops in Eng-
land, with Professor Bragg, long of Adelaide
Uni., to help. The new man is well known
in Australia, having been chaplain at Mel-
bourne Grammar School before the war. He
enlisted as soon as he could get accepted,
and has the Military Cross. He is about 35,
popular (his O.C. says) with all ranks, and
a good athlete—though not equal to his pre-
decessor at St. Peter’s. Girdlestone, who had
been stroke of the Oxford boat.
Bishop Long, who wears the gaiters at
Bathurst (N.S.W.), assisted George at
Sandringham in bestowing the V.C. on its
youngest holder. The kid, Sergeant Thomas
Ricketts, is Newfoundland’s only soldier to
earn the decoration. He enlisted in 1916
at 15, and was not quite 18 when Crossed.
On his return to St. John’s he is going to
enter Bishop Field College as a student.
“P.M.”: Old John, one of our ablest and
best-liked men, died last week, and half the
town attended his funeral. His wish was to
be buried in his family vault, 150 miles away,
and the coffin was carried from his late home
to the railway station, 1$ miles, by eight
old friends in 200-yard shifts of four each.
John was a big Tasmanian, over 15st., and
with the coffin must have weighed close on a
quarter of a ton. It was a hot day. The
local photographer had arranged to take a
photo of the coffin as it left the front gate,
but the operator forgot his plates and had
to return for them, so we started without
him. About half way down he passed us at
a run, took up a position near the railway
truck and waited. The procession arrived
at the truck, the four carriers tired out and
sweat pouring down their faces. But they
waited patiently while the operator fussed
about. Then when all was arranged to his
satisfaction, and the bearers were wondering
for how many more seconds they could stand
the strain, he put one hand on the cap, held
the other in the air and chirped, “Now, look
pleasant, please!”
Jellicoe smilingly claims long-established
association with Australia —on the ground
that his cousin, the late Sir W. Loring, was
the first senior naval officer to command
ships on this station. It was in the year
the Admiral was born.
Diver Frank Hughes, who died in Bris-
bane the other day, did many daring things,
but none more daring than the salving of an
Italian miner at Bonnie Vale (W.A.) a few
years back. An inrush of water flooded a
drive and cut off the man, who was work-
ing inside. Previous attempts at rescue
having failed, Hughes, in diving rig, crawled
through the flooded drive, at the end of
which he found the Italian squatting on a
ledge just above high-tide. Compression of
air against the roof prevented the water
from rising high enough to reach him. It
was a ticklish business for Hughes, for the
drive was full of fallen timber and debris,
which might have fouled his gear. And
that would have meant good-bye Hughes!
Dead in Adelaide, at 75, Philip Hill, a roll-
ing stone well known on the Westralian gold-
fields in their early days. He was at various
times, in South *Aus., protographer, editor,
bookseller, printer, and town-clerk of suDur-
ban St. Peter’s; but probably be did his
best work as a State school teacher. He had
the journalistic and debating instincts, and
always put some intellectual ginger into the
life of the towns in which he sojourned.
The Bulletin lost a staunch employee
last week when Mure Johnson Black died of
pneumonic ’flu at Sydney. He entered the
composing-room as a boy in the old Pitt-
street premises, and remained with the co.
for 28 years. He left the frame at 42.
Alf Buchanan, who left the Age to run
one of Brisbane’s fleet of daily papers, was
admitted in the Vic. Full Court last week,
and will proceed forthwith to try to catch up
in the courts with his old press friend, Toni
Brennan. But Brennan has a long start.
Gone into the sunset, “Jim” Hawkins,
aged 75, very well-known throughout River-
ina as manager of the some of the leading
stations, including Eunonyhareenyah—a fine
judge and breeder of fat cattle and a rac-
ing enthusiast. Vic. Premier Lawson is a
cousin.
John Wilsden, who died at Prospect
(S.A.) recently, at 77, beat Freeman’s seven-
day fast easily. In the ’sixties he missed the
track between the Burra and Morgan, and
wandered for eight days without either food
or water. The performance made him the
show member of the Northern Athletic Club
for over 30 years.
Honors, such as they are, sometimes go to the
right address. Simpson, ex-mayor of Adelaide,
a real White Australian, who has just been
C.M.G.’d., earned his trifle with good war-
work. The S. Aus. Soldiers’ Fund which he
founded and still runs is financially the
strongest of its kind in Australia, and, with
its widows’ and mothers’ insurance, gives the
family of S. Aus. soldiers as good a deal as
can be got in the Empire.
Justice Hood (Vic.) was 73 on June 1.
He was a son of John Hood, M.L.C., an
early Melbourne chemist and druggist, who
was the first to give Dr. Beaney a job on his
arrival in Melbourne; the “Diamond Doctor”
prescribed for patients at John Hood’s
pharmacy in Elizabeth-street. The Judge’s
education was good Australian —he is an
M.A., LDB., of Melbourne, but has also
learned a bit in his 29 years on the bench.
As a youngster he handled a good oar, and
he and three of the Mitchell brothers, of
Cremorne Brewery, made one of the finest
fours of their day.
More promptly than was expected, Vic.
Cabinet has selected a successor to the late
County Court Judge Eagleson. The choice fell
on “Billy” Williams, who was turned back
from the Crown Prosecutorship a few weeks
ago because it was thought, that it would
look better to appoint Mclndoe, a returned
soldier. Williams, who buttered his slice
well in the marriage-market, was Assembly
member for St. Ivilda after George Turner
went into Federal politics in 1901. He
lasted till Irvine got the sudden-death dis-
solution in Sept., 1902, when the Kyabram
reform movement forced him to make way
for It. G. McCutcheon. A Vic. County Court
judge’s job is worth £l5OO.
When he went up for re-election W. 1-1.
Edgar, M.L.C. for East Yarra, was opposed
by lawyer. Frank Cornwall, of Toorak,
and once more Cornwall got just enough
votes to hearten him. Before the introduc-
tion of the women’s vote for the Leg. Assem-
bly, Cornwall tried to push Norman Bayles
out of the Toorak seat—without success, but
with sufficient encouragement to justify
another attempt. Meantime the slielector
found herself; and when the next struggle
came along Cornwall’s chances were swamped
by an avalanche of feminine Normanites.
Probably Cornwall has read more about
economics than any member of the Legislazy
Council; but he never mastered the art of
putting his intellectual fare before the elec-
tors in a popular form. Now, Bayles, by
appearing in his well-known imitation of a
ser’ous-minded politician, always made him-
self solid with the A.W.N.L.; while Edgar,
besides his vigor, has a friendly platform-
manner.
When the Fleet got into touch with the
Germans on May 31, 1916, the torpedo boat
Shark had her steering-gear shot away as
she was returning to the flagship Invincible,
and she was left helpless unaer a heavy fire.
One by one her guns were silenced, but she
blazed defiance until she went down with
colors flying, and of a crew of 91 onb’ six
were saved. One of the most conspicuously
gallant men among a company of heroes was
the surgeon on the boat. Single-handed he
endeavored to cope with the helpless task of
tending the wounded. When last seen he
was bandaging a man who had lost a hand,
although he was then himself severely
wounded, .and shortly afterwards he was
killed. The surgeon was born and bred in
Westralia. Surgeon-Lieut. Robert Walker.
Aged only 24.
NOS ET MUTAMUR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hearken, ye who live by alms! Come hither all, and
shout!
Bring your ever-itching palms, your Monday-morning
drought.
Lay the nimble kip away, and don a martial air:
Billjim's coming home to-day —the vultures must be
there 1
Hearken, ye who profiteer, and leave your money-
bags;
Raise a patriotic cheer, and drape the streets with
flags.
Wave your hat and shout hooray, with all your
might and vim:
Billjim’s coining home to-day —you must keep right
with him !
Ye who cadge and steal, take note, the times are
changed indeed:
He went into Hell for you—but where is now your
need ?. . . .
Practise-up the promise warm, the sympathetic sob —
Billjim’s out of uniform, and looking for a job!
MAOBIIjAND.
EDMUND G. COUSINS.


urn
Si
®
S§=aH
Z2ZZ2Z
Navy Cu t
Tobacco
In airligkl tins
W.D. & H.O.WILLS
S&fPKffIWEALTH PARLIAMENT LIBRARY
PIPES
DO NOT CRACK OR BURN.
Pipe Gear antee()


W " J Made throughout in the
' Empire from Australasian Wool by
Leicester Workpeople
ft Get Jason guaranteed
unshrinkable Under-
-44
wear for every member
of your family. Your dealer
will supply you.
Underwear
New "Olympic" Brand
Owing; to the high prices of the yams from which Jason All-wool goods are made,
the manufacturers have introduced temporarily lower lines containing a
I percentage of cotton—bearing the same guarantee of quality as the regular
A lines. Sole manufacturers
JASON
UNDERWEAR
CO.
Ab a
68
LEICESTER.
ENG.
Melt Gjiian
1Y \ HIGH-CLASS
JSPEfIALTIES
Creams
zr d
Pastes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL RINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Afifents —
WARREN & STRANC LTD.
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St.. Melbourne.
E DROWN © SON 3 LONDON
AGENCIES • ALL - OVER • THE • WORLD
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
l slier, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Hat
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. L’SHER,
Managing Director.
Society
MINCHINBURY
“Smith”: Our troopship had just left
Sierra Leone. It was a West African
summer night—hot, clammy and stifling.
Some of the Diggers, unable to stick the
heat below, dumped their hammocks on the
promenade deck and turned in. The sisters
whose cabins faced this deck were annoyed
at finding such a romantic part of the ship
occupied, and one lady remarked loudly, “I
would rather sleep down in the stokehold
tlmn have men sprawling round my cabin.”
There was a lull for a few seconds. Then
a cheerful voice replied : “Sawright, Sister —
we’re not officers!”
NO TROUBLE.
SHE: “Four hundred pounds a year! Why. you couldn’t even dress me.
HE: “Oh, I would soon get the hang of that!”
“Croson” : I admire this man’s readiness.
The Melbourne housewife had stepped in
next door to discuss the latest divorce case,
and on returning found a facile, well-tailored
stranger fumbling with a parcel on her din-
ing-room table. With a courteous greeting
he inquired for the returned soldier who
was staying with her. She had not got
one, she said. He was dreadfully sorry—
he had been misdirected, and was profusely
grieved at intruding. The parcel was for
an ex-Digger whom he named, and he would
have to make further inquiries. Could she
oblige him with a sheet of brown paper—the
parcel had almost come to pieces V She
obliged him and felt almost sorry when the
affable stranger departed. But she felt
much more grieved when she discovered that
the parcel which had departed with him con-
tained her fur coat and newest pair of boots.
» * * *
“Petramos”: At a farm kitchen in the
Northern Rivers dis-
trict (N.S.W.i I
watched a traveller
trying to sell the
farmer’s wife a new
thing in stoves. A
parson arrived in the
midst of a wonderful
flow of eloquence.
“Don’t let me inter-
rupt,” said the pilot.
You couldn’t interrupt
that salesman with
anything softer than
a brick; but half an
hour later, as he
paused for breath at
the end of a particu-
larly glowing eulogy
of the stove, the par-
son muttered “Won-
derful !” The sales-
man was grateful.
“Yes, sir,” he said, “it
is, as you say, a won-
derful contrivance.”
“I wasn’t referring to
the stove,” said the
parson sadly. “I was
thinking how wonder-
ful it is that you
should find so much to
say about a little
thing like that, while
I, my friend, with the
greatest of all sub-
jects, find the utmost
difficulty in making
my sermons spin out
more t h an 1 0
minutes.” 1 thanked
the good Lord that he
hadn’t made the sales-
man a parson.
“Lex” puts the legal aspect: —
The other day a Sydney Chinese went mad, or
something, and started shooting people. An Ameri-
can named Ryan appeared out of the void, and
announced his desire to exterminate the Asiatic.
He climbed through the window of the house from
which the shots were coming, found a Chinese and
shot hint in the neck ; then, in the words of a Syd-
ney paper, “to avoid the expense and trouble of a
trial,” he shot him dead.
This raises several interesting points. For instance,
was it the right Chow? Chows mostly look alike.
It is humanly possible that the original Chinese had
an inoffensive, possibly unwilling, understudy, who
only shot at Ryan when he saw Ryan was about to
shoot him; who, in short, acted as Ryan claims he
did —in self defence.
Anyone is justified in doing his utmost to stop
crime; but does it extend to indiscriminate street-
shooting? In other words, is it allowable for all
and sundry to loose off guns, rifles, revolvers and
poison-gas because the opinion of the neighborhood
favors the theory that a madman is at work? Prac-
tically every pre-war pogrom in Russia originated
in that principle. The Germans made free use of it
in Belgium. It will be a real boon to gangs like
the Melbourne “Oyster Mob” if it gets a footing in
Australia.
There is, further, the position in the matter of
the police force. The power to apprehend* is rightly
vested in certain officials. If these men are to
delegate their powers, on the approach of real
danger, to the world, at large, and more particu-
larly to Yankee gunmen, then at least two things
are obvious. (1) The police may as well be dis-
pensed with as superfluities; and (2) citizens will
have to set about attaining something like the pro-
ficiency with lethal weapons which is enjoyed by
such men as Ryan ; for an era of anarchy will have
arrived.
Under our law there has to be an inquest after
every execution. Failing a favorable verdict the
hangman would be liable to be indicted and tried
for murder. The Coroner, who by the time these
lines appear should have sat on the dead Chinese,
ALL SHE WANTED.
DORIS : “What is your ideal of a husband?"
FLORIS : “One who will let me have the last
word in clothes and conversation.”
will, if he does his duty, consider three things in
regard to Ryan: Was he within his rights in going
after the Mongol at all? Was he justified in shoot-
ing him when found (a matter of establishing that
he shot in self defence)? And was he justified in
pumping further shots in, after his man was (pos-
sibly) so disabled as to be helpless? Such details
constitute part of the distinction between the law
of England and that of the “wild lands” of America.
Victoria lately got its first electric train
going over the first few miles of suburban
electric railway. This is the condensed
report of the proceedings: —
Federal and State Ministers, private members of
both Parliaments, the Lord Mayor and other munici-
pal councillors and public officers travelled b} the
first “official” electric train....
Mr. Watt, Acting-Prime Minister, declared the line
open....
Mr. Lawson, State Premier, said
The Acting-Prime Minister said.... [at great
length].
Mr. Ryan, M.L.A., moved....
Councillor Fenton, Mayor of Essendon, seconded. ..
[The train then got a move on.]
Mr. Barnes, Minister of Railways, addressed the
crowd.... [at very great length].
Mr. Snowball, M.L.A. proposed....
Councillor Champion, Mayor of Essendon, seconded
Cheers.
The number of mayors in rabbit-skin robes
and politicians and functionaries that this
country can gather at short notice is mar-
vellous.
. * * *
“O L” • Prof. Harry Allen and school-
masters J. P. Wilson and L. A. Adamson
supported a proposition put forward by
Prof. Osborne at the last meeting of (he
Melbourne University Council, suggesting
that any student, entering for a subject and
failing to pass at two annual exams, should
be required to withdraw from the class con-
cerned. Dr. Bride and John Grice, oppos-
ing the idea, mentioned cases of students
who had failed repeatedly, yet had since
done well in their professions. The council
is already able to deal with the undergrad,
whose “social” activities interfere with his
work; and the proposal would therefore
chieflv affect the slow student with whom
the distracted professorial soul can’t be
bothered. The mere fact that such a reso-
lution was moved is in itself a reflection on
the quality of the teaching at the Shoo : and
it is a further argument in favor of more
frequent exams. Quarterly tests would
keep the student keyed up. M ith a much
longer term than this between exams., the
not quite f.a.q. youth, who, from "nerves,
ill-health or any other of half-a-dozen legiti-
mate causes, may come a cropper in his
year’s work, is naturally liable to face the
prospect of another long, dreary grind with
some discouragement. The council turned
down Prof. Osborne’s suggestion, but nothing
was said about reforming the council’s own
modes.
* * * *
“Y.Z.”: The house famine in Melbourne
suburbs increases. Returned soldiers are
putting a further strain on the limited
accommodation, many of them having mar-
ried just before leaving for the war, while
the wives of those who left families have put
up with limited quarters meanwhile. All
these are now clamoring for roofs. The limit
was reached when the other day an Albert
Park resident, whose house is built on an
abrupt slope, found a footsore warrior in his
yard, surveying with hopeful interest the
large, boarded-in space under the back of
the house. “Hello 1” said the resident.
“Hello!” said the soldier, and added: “I
was just wonderin’ what rent you’d ask for
under your house?”
* * * *
"Tom x\oddy” : Fuel was often very scarce
in France. During the worst winter on the
Somme several of us were sharing a one-
roomeu mansion near Bernafait. Everything
that would burn had been sacrificed, and we
were sorrowfully regarding an empty brazier
when my batman came in shivering. “A tot
of rum,” he chattered, “might buy a few
lumps of coal from a Tommy driver on the
railway.” A cupful was measured out, and
away he went. Half an hour later he stag-
gered in with two large sacks of coal. We
rose at him. “Do you mean to say you go!
all that for one cup of rum?” His answer
was definite. “Strewth, if ye’d only given
me another spoonful I'd have brought you
the engine!”
* » * *
“Sgt. S.” : The battalion had moved into
billets in another sector preparatory to
taking up that part of the line. As usual
an advance party had been up to have a
“screw round.” On its return someone
asked what the new position was like. The
battalion wit replied briefly, “It’s a case of
one foot in the grave and the other on a
banana skin.”
* * * •
For years past many people have urged
that the Vic. State Government should attend
to the hospitalling of its own citizens mauled
by motor-cars or stricken by disease, instead
of leaving the matter to a few worthy souls
with a high sense of public duty. Until
lately, however, there was nothing doing;
and the Government was not even able, to
make up its mind about carrying ’flu-victims
until long after the beginning of the out-
break. This work was largely left; to the
St. John ambulance association, which lias
transported 9000 patients during the past
21 weeks. The State, now at last running
a fleet of its own cars, may be able to
ON REFLECTION.
TOMMY : “Pa says you're a self-made man.
VISITOR : “Yes, my boy—your pa is right."
TOMMY: “Ain’t you sorry now you didn't
get somebody to help you?”
improve on the association’s methods; and
there should be an immense difference in
efficiency between a service backed by the
resources of the State and one v> eh, with
a shortage of cash continually era aping its
activities, has had to depend on public ap-
peals for assistance. The Government should
presently submit its figures for (say) the
first three months of State sick transport, so
that they may be compared with the results
reached by the volunteer body; and, if the
State service fails to compare favorably,
St. John should be given complete control ot
the business, with a promise of adequate sup-
port for the future.
(Continued on page 18.)
FLOWERS AND WEEDS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Flowers and weeds that have not been known in
France within the ..memory of the people are bloom-
ing in tlie shell-torn wastes the war has left behind.
Angels surely were here;
But they went by weeping,
On the hills of the great Fear
A slow watch keeping.
For the thunders of God and of Hell
Met in the valleys quaking,
And the blood and tears fell
For the red hate’s slaking.
Angels surely were there
To the dust bowing,
While the war’s black share
Made a deep ploughing;
And the devil curled his lip
Through the straining and striving,
For, with him at the death-whip,
It. was evil driving.
What should the harvest be?
Earth’s a good keeper
Of seeds of memory
For a new day’s reaper.
Here shall the blossoms grow —
Blooms of the great forgetting;
And here shall the weeds show
Of Hell’s old setting.
Shall the flower be more than the weed
Or the weed, like a foul word spoken,
Grow till it shakes its seed
Over new dreamy broken?
Wide is the Garden of God ;
But well may the world be heeding
The man’s heart-sod
That calls for an angel-weeding !
x.s.w.
DAVID McKEE WEIGHT.


S 3
WBm
£53
s
kjSi
ai
@
I
an
El
EJ
Beautiful
Catalog
Sent on
Request
slightest touch!
C ENSITIVE in action, gentle, yet sure in execution, at the slightest touch of the da^| st f ®®‘
on the Pianola controlling pedals glorious tone volumes of enchanting music •
Distinctive mechanical perfections and superior simplicity of design make the opera ftl
Pianola easy and natural as you instinctively beat time to the rhythm in music No
effort-no tiresome monotony. Just the gentle, insistent pressure of the feet, and 10, like a magic g ,
fairy music charms your soul.
Other Superior Features
of the Pianola Piano
THE METROSTYLE. —Among other exclusive
features in the Pianola is the Metrostyle, an in-
genious patented device, which enables the player
to interpret music with the perception and feeling
of a skilled artist.
THE THEMODIST. —Next in importance to
the Metrostyle is the almost human Themodist.
This remarkable device brings out the melody or
theme in the music while subduing the accom-
paniment.
Just a Word More
Remember, the Pianola is the world’s leading player piano. The
modern music masters are so impressed with its artistic achieve-
ments that they do not hesitate to praise it. Don’t go music
hungry. Don’t starve your soul. A Pianola Piano provides you
with an endless music feast.
The Pianola Company
PTY. LTD.
384 George Street, SYDNEY,
252 Collins Street, MELBOURNE,
Queen Street, BRISBANE.
58 Bundle Street, ADELAIDE.
till
If
• ••


Rev. John Hosking, Lecturer and Organiser of the Protestant Federation, N.S.W.,
writes of the value of Clements Tonic among the Soldiers of Australia in Egypt, Palestine and France.
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.,
ROZELLE, SYDNEY.
341 Cobalt Street,
BROKEN HILL.
July 22, 1918.
Dear Sirs, —
You may remember some years ago, when pastor of St. James’s
Mission Church, Fitzroy, Melbourne, I gave you a testimony to your
Tonic.
Since then I have been round the world twice, and have travelled in
France, Belgium, Egypt and Palestine, and in some parts of Turkey. I
was travelling up to about 12 months ago.
I could give you some good testimonies of the value and use of
(Clements Tonic amongst the soldiers in the various war-affected parts
where I have been.
If the incidents that I can recollect were written and published it
would help to further popularise a medicine in which I am enthusiastically
interested.
At present I am in good health, and have enjoyed the same since! I
recovered from nervous breakdown in 1913, through the use of your
medicine.
You can rely on me always doing my best to aid the future of a
medicine that has done so much for me.
I remain,
Faithfully yours,
(Signed) JOHN HOSIvING,
Pastor of the Baptist Church, Broken Hill.
Whether you are a soldier or not, do not be without this national medicine.
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle, N.S.W.
It does good because it is good.
“Dial Sight” : The hop-over was due in a
few minutes, and Fritz was sending over
iron rations at top speed. A Digger sud-
denly clapped one hand over his mouth, and,
mumbling inaudibly, rushed past the two-
star artist. As he was on the wrong route
to the first-aid station, the officer yelled
directions to him to right about. Nothing
heeding, the agitated one squatted down and
began to audit his face as well as he could
without a mirror. As the signal was about
to be blown, he rushed back, shoved his fist
under the preoccupied c.o.’s nose and signalled
15 with his fingers, just as if he were saving
the young man from some tragic error. It
came out afterwards that his message was:
“Stop the war! I’ve just lost 15 teeth!”
* * * *
“W.H.D.”: The boys felt sore when
Major Crimson, a terrific cusser of the -th
Light Horse, crimed Trooper Blanky for using
“profane language in the presence of an
officer”—he (Crimson) being the officer.
Seven days’ C.B. was the sentence. The
folfowing day, as the Major waiked through
the lines, everybody in every tent started to
sing hymns. A compliment galls if con-
tinually repeated, so three days later
the Major ordered no more hymn-singing in
the lines. This caused a temporary stoppage.
But a depraved genius presently waited on
the padre, and asked the good man to parade
him to the Colonel for the purpose of obtain-
ing permission to sing hymns in the lines.
The padre was delighted, and took him
along. The Colonel listened gravely to the
petition, then sent for the Major. When
asked, “Do you object to the men singing
hymns in the lines when off duty?” poor
old Crimson lost his nut, and replied with
passion: “No! They can sing what they
damn well like!” Ever afterward, when the
Major strolled through the lines, there was
a buzzing accompaniment of sacred song. It
was practically impossible to get crimed for
language in at least one L.H. regiment after
that.
* * # ,*
“Sue”: The shyness of some bush children
makes them dumb in the presence of stran-
gers. A year aeo a woman with ideas was
put in charge of a Victorian school where
the kiddies were “shyer ’n rats.” To teach
SHORT BUT QUICK.
“My word, Billy, I hear you’re going the
pace on your wad of notes.”
“Yes, quick but not far. A note’s only a
sprinter these days.”
them the habit of speech, she insisted on their
getting up and saying “I have no opinion to
express on the matter, madam,” when they
could not answer a question. After a few
months they chatted quite freely. On Empire
Day a leading gasbag from the nearest town
visited the school. In elaborately simple
language he talked Empire. Touching on
the loss of the American Colonies, he singled
out a big boy and said: “Now, what do you
think they should have done, my lad?” The
boy showed a momentary hesitation. Then,
rising to his feet, he fixed the condescending
visitor with a Cabinet Minister stare and
blew him out of the place with, “I have no
opinion to express on the matter, sir.”
* * * *
“Dido”: There is a short, stocky man
with terrific whiskers in our suburb who, it
is reported, will steal anything at any time.
If the article is small enough to conceal in
his facial scrub, so much the better, but if
it is as big as a house he will have a shot
at it. The other day Smith had the old-
fashioned, two-fire stove taken out of his
kitchen to be replaced with a more up-to-
date cooker. The huge oven was hauled to
the side gate for later removal, but it dis-
appeared over-night. Later on an ac-
quaintance dropped in on Smith, and
explained that a short thick man with an
abundance of beard, was busy in a back
street not far off wrestling with a large,
black, iron contrivance which might reason-
ably be presumed to be the missing range.
Smith went out to investigate, and, sure
enough, there was little Whiskers, black as
a nigger from his night-long struggles, heav-
ing the oven down the centre of the road
with a lever and two rollers. Seeing Smith
coming, he put on a spurt. It was a noble
effort, but of course hopeless. Smith drew
up on him, and Whiskers, utterly disgusted,
THREE CHANCES.
“Do you know that thing?”
“Which? The one she’s playing, the one she’s singing, or the lady herself?”
hurled aside his lever, and turned on the
lawful owner. “You said he, “what
do you mean by leavin’ an infernal thing
like that over-night at an open gate, and
putting me to all this trouble?”
* * * *
Definitions by “Sol Malaprop”:—
The hardy pioneer is the man who got in on the
ground floor.
A President is a politician who has become inevit-
able, so the people elect him to get it over. Some-
times they re-elect him in the hope that the next
man will die in the interval.
A dog is an animal that has its day. Sometimes
two dogs want the same day. Then there is a
world-war.
In like manner a lion is a beast that roars along
the shore. When there are two lions the supply
of shore runs short.
A contributor is a man whose stuff the editor
keeps out of the paper because it is rot.
An editor is a person who can put all his own
rot in the paper but hasn’t time to write any.
Eve was the only woman worth mentioning. She
invented sin and marriage and the art of being a
woman.
A motor-car is a swift vehicle which carries the
other man’s wife and the other woman’s husband.
By next century a king will be defined as an
extinct mammal that used to have a large salary.
* * • #
“William James Digger”: Adelaide Ad-
vertiser grows cynical. Once upon a time
love twitterings were headed “Matrimonial.”
Now, however:
MISCELLANEOUS.
Two young Men wish to meet two young Ladies,
26 to 30, view to above.
Young Girl (19) wishes to meet Returned Soldier
(19-24), only genuine need apply.
Henry Malcolm, Vic. Inspector of Chari-
ties, touched a sensitive spot when he refer-
red in his just-published annual report to the
status of nurses. Malcolm
explains that any un-
educated and untrained
person can practise, with
the right to collect the
same fees as a nurse quali-
fied by “three years’ hard
training and study.” As
they can act under a doc-
tor, who therefore, takes
practically all the respon-
sibility, the protection of
such casuals is assured in
the event of “serious con-
sequences.” Malcolm re-
commends a law making it
a punishable offence for
any untrained “nurse” to
practise for gain; but the
whole thing, of course,
harks back to the question
of nurses’ pay and con-
ditions of labor and the State’s indifferent
attitude thereto.
* * * *
Governments are mighty kind to the medi-
cal profession these times. Pneumonic
influenza having lost some of its early terrors
for the public, especially the oldest and
most nervous citizens, the Federal Govern-
ment is calling everybody’s attention to
“epidemic encephalitis.” If you suffer from
lethargy and a mild form of paralysis, you’ve
got the new complaint. At any rate, you
must go into quarantine and be inoculated
or something. Also your friends must be
scared out of their lives, and sent flying to
the doctors for protection. Nobody knows
whether epidemic encephalitis is infectious,
but the desire for inoculation (or something)
is expected to spread like a disease. That’s
where the Federal Government Gazette
comes in. It serves to diffuse the fear that
epi. enceph. is an aftermath of ordinary influ-
enza. If one suspect should appear to catch
enceph. from another, the infectiousness of
the complaint will be taken as read, and the
doctors will invent a serum which, as likely
as not, will happen to prove invaluable in
cases of sandy blight.
♦ * * *
“Grizzled Darling”: Brains are as cheap
as ever. The Vic. Government Gazette
of May 14 asks for a professional assistant
for the Crown Solicitor’s office. The poor
devil will be required to “prepare, advise on,
and conduct cases in Courts of Petty Ses-
sions for State Government offices and de-
partments.” Further: —
An applicant must be a barrister and solicitor of
the Supreme Court. In addition to the possession
of steadiness, industry and discretion, the personal
qualities desired are clear-headedness, the faculty cf
appreciating the relevancy and weight of matter
submitted as evidence in support of an alleged
offence, a capacity to get up cases for prosecution,
to frame informations and other legal instruments
incidental to the conduct of proceedings for offences
before justices, the ability to speak in court with
clearness, and the capacity to there conduct the
cases referred to.
The wage for all this is £204, with a remote
possibility of £240 some day. Is there a
curse upon the educated man in Australia?
* * * *
“Chanco”: Several Bulletin correspond-
ents have lately grieved over the many dis-
used pianos standing lonely and undusted in
suburban drawing-rooms. It is not a thing
to grieve about. It shows an increase in
artistic education. In the bad old days
piano-thumping w’as part of every girl’s hus-
band-hunting campaign. As soon as she got
her man and her baby she shut the piano
and thankfully dropped her “practising.”
A GIDDY BUSINESS.
THE ROMANTIC SHE: “’Tis lore that makes
the world go round, you know."
THE PRACTICAL HE: “True: hut it nearly
always makes a man lose his balance.”
The present generation of girls know that
the modern young man can’t be caught with
indifferent music. The welcome silence is
the logical outcome of a better standard of
taste, more amusements and good mechani-
cal music.
* * # #
“Tom N.”: This time last year most of
the A.I.F. were quartered in front of Amiens.
Nearly all the French civilians had left their
homes as they stood, poultry and cattle in-
cluded, and our boys were doing well for
food. One battalion was holding a reserve
line consisting of more or less isolated posts,
each containing 15 diggers. They were all
well dug in. About. 10 yards away from each
post, tied to a stake, and also well dug in.
was a cow. Later on Authority decreed that
all cattle were to be mustered in a central
spot for repatriation. Our dugout was quite
close to the rallying point and about lunch
time I sauntered" down with a billy. Hopping
the fence I applied the usual methods to sev-
eral cows without result. The casual Digger
in charge walked across. “Leave the poor
blankers alone,” he said; “they’ve been
milked seven times to-day already.”
* * * *
“Fairplay”: As a transport was passing
through the Suez Canal recently, with Dig-
gers from England aboard, also a few Anzac
brides, several sun-dried Aussies from an
adjacent camp were taking their daily dip.
Suddenly a mocking voice hailed them from
the massing trooper: “Hallo, Diggers! Still
keeping in with the dusky bints over there?”
“Yairs!” roared a semi-nude one from the
shore. “But we ain't talcing 'em home with
us!" Silence from the trooner.
* * * *
“Butty”: Australia may be curious to
know the reason of the abject failure of the
ambitious A.I.F. Education Scheme. The
main reason was lack of organisation. Take
a sample. The Second Division was billeted
around Charleroi when notification was re-
ceived from corps headquarters that arrange-
ments had been completed for parties to visit
a military farm at Corbie (near Amiens) to
witness tractor ploughing, transport arrange-
ments to be notified later. The agriculturists
of the Division were interested, and over a
hundred men handed in their names. A few
nights later a wire was received at D.H.Q.
that the party would proceed by motor-lorry
at 8 o’clock the following morning. As some
of the units were billeted 12 miles away and
were not connected by ’phone it seemed im-
possible to notify them in time ; but, deter-
mined not to disappoint the men, a despatch-
rider was sent out with orders to do every-
thing possible to warn all concerned. Next
morning only half the required number of
lorries arrived, so half the assembled party
had to be left behind. The roads were in a
fearful state, and the distance was so great
that the men were crowded in the lorries
for four days and had to exist on bully and
biscuits. The officer in charge had to
furnish a report in writing on the value of
the demonstration from an educational point
of view. Five days later that officer turned
up again at D.H.Q. boiling with rage, and
expressed his feelings on the education
scheme in such a manner as to turn a
sergeant-major green with envy. On arrival
at the farm he had been casually informed
by the Tommy officer in charge that the
demonstration had been cancelled!
THE OLD FLEETS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The day’s end, and a late ship,
And night stealing down;
Waves whipped by the wind’s whip
And sands bleak and brown!
Veiled cliffs and the sea’s dash
And clouds moving slow;
Salt winds with a keen lash
And seas dirging low!
No lights but the shore-lights,
A-gleam fitfully,
Blurred lamps on the near heights,
And ghosts on the sea;
Dream-things ’neath the far skies,
With worn ropes and sheets,
Old ships from the past rise—■
Cook’s and Phillip’s Fleets.
Loud winds and a chill spray
And cliffs grim and black ;
Masts, sails and their spars asway,
As off-shore they tack;
Hope high in the rude breasts
Of stern, dauntless men —
North, north on their old quests,
Glide the Fleets again!
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


A Handful o
Australian
Industry.
Worthy of
Your
Support.
er
Ce
C
C
6
m
?
TO
□
A
MEGGITT
LIMITED.
n
O
m
e
WORKS: PARRAMATTA.
VWr
SSSSSSSS9?^wMa?Hf!T!tSw9IB^\V^^^:!*siJf^S9!?^^S^SBSJ.VU]^iS^
'MH/.VJ!
o
•XSSSiSS.
I«ow
The three fundamentals essential to the manufacture of perfect Linseed Oil are—
SEED. Rich and Unadulterated.
EFFICIENT iTANUFACTURE. Most modern plant and laboratories.
PERFECT MATURITY. Guaranteed.
These three are combined in Meggitt Limited’s Linseed Oil, and have established it as “The best in the world,” vide
“Architecture,” the official organ of the Institute of Architects (October 21, 1918), wherein they say—“ There is no better
Linseed Oil in the world than that produced at Parramatta.” CATALOG NO. 2 MAILED FREE.
Fnll particulars from Agents: Messrs. R. S. Exton & Co., Queen Street, Brisbane; Messrs. Harrisons, Ramsay ltd., 666 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
Messrs. W. Adams & Co., King Street, Perth; Messrs. Clarkson Etd., Bundle Street, Adelaide; Messrs. F. W. Heritage & Co., Launceston and
Hobart; or
MEGGITT LTD.
WORKSs PARRAMATTA
(The Pioneer Linseed Oil and Linseed Oil Meal
Manufacturers of Australia),
26 King' Street, SYDNEY
(jNStro oiimejh
PARRAMATTA
The Boy on the Bat
guarantees quality.


Hotel de Luxe,
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
The Healthiest and most Beautiful Spot on
the Harbor. As warm in Winter as the South
of France.
Recommended by the Minister for Health and
the Medical Faculty. Finest Cuisine. Hot
and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Beautiful Beaches,
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths,
Fishing.
Tariff, from 12/6 per day, or
£3/10/- per week.
Tels.: Y3OOl, 3002.
Apply Manager.
SPORTING
CARTRIDGES
Our Special Offer.
The Celebrated
SOVEREIGN, 21/- per 100
SMOKELESS, 20/6 per 100-m soo lots
CARTRIDGE, 20/- per 100-m woo iota.
This is the finest smokeless cartridge made.
12-Gauge, loaded, double-chilled shot, and
Nobel’s Empire Smokeless Powder.
Shot Nos. 2,3, 4,5, 6, 8 and 10.
We have the largest stocks in Victoria
of Winchester, Remington and Dominion
Cartridges. Send for special list.
McEWAN’S,
Melbourne’s Busiest Hardware Store,
119-125 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
King George IV
IYIIW v JS,WHISKY
44
THE TOP NOTCH SCOTCH
A SAFE PROTECTOR
ABORIGINAHTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Bareoo”: Doubt is generally expressed
about there being two species of emu in An tr- lm,
but after observation of their chief characteristics,
and a close study of natural history, no douut
remains in my mind that the bird of the Western
portion of Australia is a distinct species from that
of the Eastern parts. It is a much more slender
bird thau its Eastern cousin,
though it resembles it in most
particulars except that it lays
from seven to 11 eggs, while
the other, or common, emu
drops from nine to 13. In-
cubation takes from 70 to 80
days in both cases. The
species of the West was tabu-
lated as far back as 1859 by
Bartlett. The feathers of
the adult birds are barred
with white and dark grey,
ending in a black spot with
a rufous margin, while the
emu of the East has feathers
of a uniform blackish grey
from base to near the tip,
with a broad subterminal ru-
fous band. The emu is the
only one of the family to
which it belongs that will
take to water naturally.
Many cases are known of the
species swimming large
rivers and lakes without being
forced to it. In both species
the female is the giant of the
family and boss of the harem.
All of this family of birds
have one habit in common:
two hens will deposit eggs
in the one nest, and it is
authentically reported by
McKenzie, of Blackall (C.Q.),
who took close observations
of a nest years ago, that it
contained 26 eggs. Six
eggs of this clutch were smashed. It is not gener-
ally recorded, but in every incubation a portion of
the setting is apparently broken up for food for the
first youngsters that come to light.
* * * *
“Black Bonnet”: One-toed Peter was
passing sure-footed up a log which lay, one end in
the creek and the other 20ft. off, on the edge of a
washaway. He was carrying, in addition to his
spears and womera, two carpet-snakes coiled round
and tied with grass, and yet another, baked and cut
up, in a dilly-bag. The two whole snakes appeared to
be about 10ft. long. The cooked one, he said, was a
“big fella,” and I want to assure you that a “big
fella” here is anything from 10ft. to 20ft. There
was also in the assortment a couple of scrub iguanas.
One-toed Peter was fairly loaded; there would be a
feast at the camp that night! From the middle of the
log he confided that he was in trouble —his sister was
sick. “She had no beef [flesh] on her, no eatem
snake, no eatem iguana, and she die to-day—to-
morrow.” She had said: “Peter, you go away, walk
about, else enemy alonga me killem you, too.” “Why,
Peter?” I said. “You are big fella —no enemy kill
you.” “Come along night-time—push me in river,”
he said, and departed looking very serious. Sure
enough, the gin died next day, and One-toed Peter
went off down the coast on a walkabout. He believed
DANGERS OF THE AGE.
TRAƑIC SUPT.: “Mark me, I'll report this!”
that his sister had spoken truly, and he would not
be safe in the camp for a time. The abos. attribute
all death to an enemy. Several years ago, a young
gin, Nambudgee, died on the Bloomfield. A party
of prospectors in the locality were troubled by a dog,
which had belonged to her, stealing from their camp,
and one night it was fired at. The shot passed
between the shoulders of the animal taking out a
piece of flesh. Next day there was great excitement
among the blacks. They said that Nambudgee was
hungry and had bitten a piece out of her dog when
she came back in the night.
“Eddyson”: He was a small, thin, old
man, shaved clean but for a sprout of ragged whisker
just under the lip, which, as a result of the utter
collapse of his teeth, and the consequent falling in
of his mouth, jutted straight out from his brown
face. He bore a perpendicular bluey, from the lower
extremity of which a small, blackened billy beat
against the back of his legs as he walked. At his
heel was a foot-sore, wire-haired terrier, its nose
almost glued to his boot. He came wearily up from
the panels to a withered and warped weatherboard-
house standing desolate, its back to a granite hill,
about it barrenness, and over it a vicious sky of still
cloud shot with swords of light, and dribbling
moisture into the heavy atmosphere. At the back
door stood a woman, tall and bony, watching him
under a raised hand. “Well, whatcher want?” she
said. The old fellow slid his swag to earth, the dog
curled in the dust, still with its nose to his heel.
“Ain’t this Dick Wellan’s place?” asked the travel-
ler. “ ’N’ what if it is ?” “S’pose Dick ain’t
nowhere about?” “No, he ain’t.” “Reckon I might
wait, missus, till the boss comes home?” The
woman took a bush-broom made of spear-grass tied
to a stick. “S’pose you may,” she said. “But you
won’t get nothink here.” “Oh, that’s all right.”
The old man seated himself with some effort on a
block by the door. The woman went drearily about
her work. Two hours passed. The old man dosed,
the dog slept, the woman seemed unaware of their
existence. She looked like an automaton made of
leather; a few rags of nondescript clothing just
covered her. The traveller awoke, finding her swill-
ing a tub at his elbow. “Expectin’ the boss home
afore night?” he asked. “Dunno,” replied the
woman without a shred of interest. “He might come,
then ag’in he mightn’t. Yeh might cut a bit iv
wood while yer waitin’.” The old chap drifted to the
woodheap; the dog followed. He worked for 10
minutes, and the woman came out, batting an old
wheat-sack hearth-rug on a stump. “S’pose Dick’s
certain to get home sometime in reason ?” he asked.
The woman dragged the sack towards him. “S’pose
who?” “Why, Dick.” “Dick’s dead,” said the
woman. “Didn’t you say this was Dick’s place?”
“So ’twas. It’s called Dick’s place; but Dick’s dead.
Bin dead three year. I’m married to Andy now—
Andy Sparks.” The old fellow dropped the axe. At
last he betrayed some little feeling. “I come 30
mile out of my way to see Dick,” he said. “I ain’t
seen Dick for. 23 year, ’n’ now you tell me Dick's
dead.” “Ya-a-s.” “And you ain’t his missus no
longer ?” “No-o-o.” “Well, you can go to the
devil, ’n’ cut your own wood!” The traveller
dropped the axe, caught up his swag, ducked into it
and moved off. The dog stirred up out of the dust
and attached itself to his heel. The woman watched
them under her hand. “Hi!” she cried. “Who are
yeh?” “Dick’s father, ’n’ be damned to yeh!” replied
the uncommercial traveller, and passed awav.
• * • *
“Top-side”: The Roper River aboriginal
mission, conducted by the
Church Missionary Society,
is in future to have its
own motor-car. This inno-
vation, for one thing, will
reduce from three weeks
to three days the time
needed to reach medical
attention at Darwin, when
required. By way of
breaking in the new ear,
mission • superintendent
Warren started off from
Melbourne the other day,
taking Mrs. 'Warren and a
pair of assistants, on the
long ’cross-country trip of
3000 miles to the Roper
River country. The C.M.S.,
within the last decade,
obtained a grant of a few
square miles of country
from the Commonwealth
Government; and the
society now has eight mis-
sionaries there, keeping
black brother (and sister)
from becoming over-
civilised. Floods, drought
and three steamers a year
have made missionising- at
the Roper River station
not all bliss, and nobody
will begrudge the little
community its new jigger.
Some, who recognise that
the aboriginal lias had but
a poor deal in the past,
may even go so far as to
provide threepenn’orth of
petrol now and again, to
help his protectors on
their bumpy way.
“Ida D.”: Tong-e-i, who was the last of
his tribe, was a N. S. Wales South Coast native. His
family had all been killed when he was small,
for cattle-stealing. The frightened child hid in
a field of standing corn, and by-and-bye made his way
over the ranges to Monaro (N.S.W.). He seldom
mixed with the other blacks, either those in the
“reserve” or the wandering tableland tribes, but more
or less attached himself to my father. Tong-e-i, on
his periodical visits to the homestead, camped in the
paddock, where he built a gunyah, and at night
curled himself round the typical blackfellow’s fire.
He climbed the highest trees for us, using a toma-
hawk and his mundoie (big toe) ; and he made us a
collection of weapons, rudely carved and polished by
himself —amongst them the come-back boomerang,
which, all arguments to the contrary, is
intended only for sport. A spear he made
was about 6ft. long, with deep notches cut in one end,
like fish-hooks. The eel-er-man (spelt as sounded)
was used both as a shield and as a weapon of offence.
It was shaped something like a broad new-moon, with
a hole in the concave edge of the crescent to slip the
hand through. The sharp ends were used in battle
to strike the foe, and the broad centre guarded the
face. The nulla-nulla and the gujerong are almost
similarly shaped—about 2ft. long, one with a round
knob at the end, the other with a pointed head. Both
are comparatively heavy. To quote Tong-e-i’s words,
they were used to hit hard, and generally were em-
ployed to finish off a kangaroo or wallaby. “Wome-
ra” had the same meaning for Tong-e-i as it has in
PROPERLY GRATEFUL.
“I suppose it teas a question of religion?”
“Oh, no —I am an atheist, thank God!”
the north-west of N. S. Wales. It is strange that
places so widely separated as Monaro and the North-
West should have a kindred word even for a universal
weapon. Even the übiquitous kangaroo was known as
bunda in one district and mandamah in almost
the next parish.
(Continued on page 22.)
SONG OF THE GOLD STAMPS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They’re roaring', up the river—
The gold stamps know no quieting.
Where crooning night-winds shiver,
Their crashing song goes rioting,
By tossing torrents lathered,
The clamor wakes the gorges
As though young gods had gathered
To toil in Vulcan’s forges.
‘■Oh, granity! So granity!” a growling chorus
sings.
“Auriferous 1 Auriferous I” a solemn measure
swings.
From Reefton out to Capleston—
From Boatman’s to Big River —
From Crushington to Cronadun,
The starlit night’s a-quiver....
But silence reigns at Lyell that is hard by Buller
River.
Since Band of Hope was sending
Her music far and wide,
And Just-in-Time was ending
The ebb of fortune’s tide,
The deep-sunk mines have squandered
The riches of wild places—
Their names, that men have pondered,
Are like familiar faces.
“Oh! Homeward Bound and Merrigigs,” the stamps
in chorus say.
“And Hard-to-Find and Inkerman,’’ rings out from
far away—
“Sebastopol and Devil’s Creek
And Westland and Blackwater,’’
The Wealth of Nations voices speak
Where drifting airs have sought her....
But there’s silence at the Lyell that is lulled by
Buller water.
The town lights wink and twinkle,
The stars are bright and clear;
The river-eddies tinkle
Against a bridge’s pier,
And, past the hills’ resisting,
The Progress chorus whispers
\s though tired hearts were listing
To softly-chanted vespers—-
THE POLITE GHUCKER-OUT.
COUSIN JACK: “Never mind, Billy. He
wasn't game to tell 'ee to thy face thee
wasn’t wanted, was he?”
“Sir Francis Drake and Golden Fleece,” is what
the voices tell
“And Fiery Cross and Inglewood,” more wind-borne
voices swell—
From Snowy to the Waitahu
From Reefton to the Landing
The gusty measures come to you
In stealthy cohorts banding....
Yet silence reigns at Lyell that is past your under-
standing.
Bold miners made the Lyell
Where Buller’s current sweeps;
They diced with chance and trial
For wealth that courage reaps—
On men with hearts, impassioned,
The Lyell’s gold was pouring
Ere Greymouth’s halls were fashioned
Or Reefton’s mills were roaring.
“Oh 1 Dublin Ridge! Old Dublin Ridge! and
Lyell’s lofty hills,”
The Energetic chorus from the soaring skyline
thrills.
“From Rocklands up to Rocky Falls,”
The steady song is swaying,
“The ghost of many a drowned man calls
As though his lips were saying
That he remembered Lyell where the water-wee 13
are swaying.”
The hills that urge the river
Gave wealth past need of praise;
The pools where waters quiver
Reflected golden rays;
The river gorge was teeming;
The town was like a city,
With ne’er a sad heart dreaming
Of poverty and pity.
“Oh, Buller Gorge! Oh, Buller Gorge!” the Keep-
it-Dark is dinning,
“Oh, Biddy of the Buller with your heart too true
for sinning!
Oh, dredges of the Buller and the gold that you
were winning,
From Murchison to Westport bar,
With Newton Flat to plunder”—•
By light of many a blue-set star
The stubborn stamps make thunder.
Oh, yes, but at the Lyell, oh ! the quiet makes you
wonder.
They’re roaring up the river
In harmony that’s measuring
The hopes of men for ever,
And gold that they’ll be treasuring.
The tossing torrents meeting
That quarrel in the gorges
Are silenced by the beating
Oil hammers on huge forges.
“Oh, granity, so granity!” some sullen stamps
complain.
“There’s gold in it, there’s gold in it!” rails out a
glad refrain.
From Crushington to Cronadun,
From Boatman’s to Big River,
From Cornishtown to Capleston
The wakened dawn-winds shiver....
And seek repose at Lyell that is hushed by Buller
River.
MAORItiSND.
WILL LAWSON.


/r*-
i
I
-
*3
• \
■
PLAYER PIANOS
o
easy to play.
An ESTEY PLAYER PIANO will turn many a dull
evening into a bright one. The glorious beauties of
music are always at your hand, and you can revel in
the sweet entrancing music of the classics or the jolly,
bright, free and easy popular music of the day.
Just what you want you can play, and just when you
want it, and without having to worry to learn it—the
music roll does everything for you.
Every shade of expression and tone-quality is instantly
obtainable by means of the Player devices. The
pedalling is a revelation, and so easy, too. It never
makes you tired.
You can purchase an ESTEY PLAYER on Easy Terms
if required. Your present piano taken in exchange
and full honest value allowed.
Write for our Player Piano Catalogue and PRINTED PRICE LIST
(post free).
PALING'S,
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches at Brisbane, Lismore, Toowoomba & Newcastle.
V- li
-
If your
retailer
does not
stock
Arrow
Goods
write
immediately
to
D. Hamilton
& Co.
ill
m
The Mark of Quality plus Service.
Rotary Service Switches
•jj" These Switches embody the latest design and improved construction of American
manufacture.
T Highly finished polished nickel, with indicating covers etched “On’ “Off.
They are dust and moisture proof , the dial operating between the metal cap
and a fibre lining NOT cut away at the indicating hole.
The dial of the indicating type being operated by the handle, is not attached
to the moving mechanism of the switch.
Ceiling' Switches, etc.
We have large stocks of the following types, which we are pleased to offer as under:—
Cat No. Description.
6211 5 Amp. Dble. Pole Indicating Rotary Switches
6218—10 Amp. Dhle. Pole Indicating Rotary Switches
6123—20 Amp. Dble. Pole Indicating Rotary Switches
6628 30 Amp. Dble. Pole Indicating Rotary Switches
6202 3 Amp. Sgle. Pole Non-Indicating Switches
6206 —5 Amp. Sgle. Pole Non-Indicating Switches
Delivery can be
made immediately
from stock.
Sole Distributing
Agents for Australia
and New Zealand—
m,
A
i
i
as
1
%
"""/mm/
1
Wm,
m
i
'"m
1
1
Pi
I
i
1
1
I
I
£//J
1
tg
Mi
m
\
fL. 111
{%/////////// WM
111
I
ft
Electrical Importers
and Suppliers : s s *
We have also arriving
shortly—
Arrow Ceiling Switches.
Sgle. Pole.
Arrow Ceiling Switches,
Dble. Pole.
Arrow Ceiling Switch
Rosettes.
Arrow Surface Rotary
Switches, 3 Amp.,
2 Way.
Quotations on Application.
283-285 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at Melbourne and Brisbane.
THOMPSON, MEGG/TT & CO. f LTD. :: Factory Representatives.
11
mi
If your
retailer
does not
stock
Arrow
Goods
write at
once
to
D. Hamilton
& Co.
~v *1
am


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
head office —
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
ABSOLUTELY PURE AND SOLUBLE.
Hanufactured in Australia from the finest selected Beans.
it
¥ %
Obtainable all Leading Grocers throughout the Commonwealth and N.Z.
Wholesale only from McINTYRE BROS., Sole Proprietors, Melbourne, Vic.
Agents:
Mr. J. P. WILSON, Brisbane.
Mr. DAVID BLASHKI, Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Messrs. MADDOX & LAWRENCE, PERTH.
Mr. W. R. LANGSFORD, ADELAIDE.
[2
“Pharmo”: Re the efficacy of volatile caus-
tic alkali spirit in snake-bite treatment. This drug is
more commonly known under the name of sal volatile,
or, to give it its British Pharmacopoeia moniker, aro-
matic spirit of ammonia. It is the only drug to our
knowledge which is a specific for snake-bite poison-
ing. Even in the very last stages when the venom
has attained a thorough grip on the system, sal vola-
tile, administered in one- to two-teaspoonful doses in
an equal quantity of water, will save the life of the
patient. The way in which it acts is this: Snake
venom is a powerful heart depressant, and the sal
volatile, being a powerful heart stimulant, counter-
acts its effect. Owing to the non-poisonous properties
of sal volatile, it can be safely administered by the
lay individual. Not so with strychnine. It, in the
hands of an unqualified person, is liable to do as
much damage as the venom, and so make the cure
worse than the disease. In any case, strychnine is
not of much use, though very popular with doctors.
The pupils of the patient’s eyes should be
carefully watched when treating with sal
volatile. When they begin to contract, the poison is
getting hold of the tissues and a dose is needed at
once. Doses should be administered at intervals until
the pupils ultimately cease to contract. Then the
patient is out of danger. It may be stated that the
size of the pupils is an infallible guide to the treat-
ment.
* * * *
“J.H.”: “Kerango’s” mention in The
Bulletin of Holbourne Island, east of Bowen (Q.),
and his statement that no water could be found
there, induces me to say a word or two. Most of
these islands consist of volcanic tuff and basalt,
which absorb water like a sponge. The surface may
be dry, but here and there a leakage shows the store
within. Coastal black brother knew many of these.
He had a curious habit of not camping up against
the spring, but you could be sure that wherever
there was a camp, new or old, though the sur-
roundings were apparently dry sand and stone, one
of these curious seepages was not so far away.
Whitsunday Island has a beautiful fiord
almost dividing it into two parts. It possesses a
wonderful echo which repeats the human voice with
uncanny distinctness. The inlet was a happy hunt-
ing-ground for Binghi, who captured therein quan-
tities of fish, crabs and an occasional dugong. The
upper end of the inlet opens out into a large
lake, and at the south-eastern end of this there
is a spring supplying a little stream lined with,
palms. At the north side of the eastern
entrance to Port Newry and close to the shore of
Outer Newry Island there is a curious rock called,
from its shape, Concertina Rock. On the shore
of the island and near this rock a spring of fresh
water bubbles out of the sand among the
stones just below high-water mark. A corres-
pondent mentioned the discovery of an old
hulk in the mangroves of Molle Island, Whitsunday
Passage. Writer spent a day trying to find
it sdme years ago, but failed. One story had it
that it was the hulk of an old Spanish galleon cast
away here in the dawn of Australian history, but
a more reliable story tells of a coastal schooner
sheltering in Port Molle about 40 years ago being
cut off by blacks, the crew murdered and the
schooner run ashore or burnt. Anyone who knows
how quickly tropical mangrove advances and
C'uilds up a foreshore would not be surprised to
have a boat run ashore in some mangrove creek in
a few years surrounded with solid land.
FROM THE BEGINNING.
“Adam, is my fig leaf on straight?”
“Blade”: Andrew Buchanan was the in-
ventor of the modern sheep-shearing machine. He
was one of a distinguished family which included
the wealthy squatter William F. Buchanan. Andrew
had been a gold-miner on the Rocky River, where
he was married, and afterwards he was a poor selec-
tor at Nambucca (N.S.W.). In the ’seven-
ties, after years of patient industry, he com-
pleted his model of the shearing machine.
About the time of the Sydney Exhibition of ’7B-9
Andrew brought his model to the city, and it was
placed under the notice of old Lassetter, who
was not impressed with it. Later, the inventor sought
his brother, William F., who induced him to bring
his model to one of the big clubs, of which he (Wm.)
was a member. The model was left there some time,
and Andrew’s friends urged him to remove it, but he
said he was not alarmed, as he had kept the most im-
portant part of his model himself. Sure enough the (
expected happened. The invention was smuggled to
Melbourne and expert mechanics put on to complete
it. Then it was patented by Wolseley. They are
all dead now. Andrew spent the remainder of his
life at Nambucca in perfecting various mechanical
ideas that interested him. He remained poor.
• * » *
“Warramunga”: “B.C.’s par. about the
fire-walkers of Bengha Island recalls a custom of our
own black brother. Before a young man of the
Arunta tribe (Centralia) could be regarded as a
fully-initiated member of the clan it was necessary
for him to pass through a ceremony known as engwura
(ura means fire in Arunta). In one part of the per-
formance the old men of the tribe made up a fire,
about three yards square, of logs and branches. When
this had become red-hot coals, green boughs
were thrown on it, and five or six of the victims
were made to lie on their backs on the bed. About
five minutes was the usual course. Before the next
batch got down on it the old men saw that the
flames were fanned up. The smoke alone would be
enough to suffocate a white man. This pastime was
always indulged in in the height of summer, with
the thermometer registering about 150 degrees in
the sun. If the old sinners felt that way they
would send the youngsters for a second dose, and
stand by to see that they took it.
* * * *
“Azac”: I contend that the arrival of
droughts and floods is far more certain than many
of the “dead certs.” —racehorses for instance —
about which we hear such a lot from time to time.
In support of the contention I submit the follow-
ing calculation, which is open to criticism by
Abo.-phrenologists: The droughts repeat in ones
and twos, fives and eights, and the flood years
are in the noughts and threes in each decade. The
ones and twos droughts commence in the ones and
last through the twos, and break up in the
early part of the threes; and the fives droughts
begin in the fours, last through the fives and break
up in the beginning of the sixes. This has been
verified, as we have had droughts in
1851-52, 1861-62, 1871-72, 1881-82. 1891-92, 1901-02
1865, 1875, 1885, 1895, 1905, 1915.
1868, 1878, 1888, 1898, 1908, 1918.
As will be seen all the ones and twos, fives and
eights of each decade have been either medium or
bad droughts. On the other hand, floods have
occurred in 1860 and ’63, 1870 and ’73, 1880 and
’B3, 1890 and ’93. Thus, according to the above,
we have the following table as a guide for all
years:—
Years ending 1, drought commences.
Years ending 2, continues through this year.
Years ending 3, breaks in the beginning, and
floods follow.
Years ending 4, drought begins.
Years ending 5, continues through this year.
Years ending 6, breaks in the beginning of this
year.
Years ending 7, plenty of rain. Good growing
year.
Years ending 8, drought commences.
Years ending 9, continues through this year.
Years ending 0, breaks in early part and there
will be floods.
To critics: there is no rule without an exception.
“Gleniris”: Some time ago Edward Pes-
cott, Vic. Director of Horticulture, prepared a list
of a dozen wattles to provide a blooming tree for
each month in the year. Here is the list, to give
wattle-blossom from January onwards: Elata, im-
plexa, maidenii, retinodes, podylarifolia, discolor,
baileyana, dealbata, pycnantha, saligna, mollissima,
pruinosa. It is late for transplanting young
trees now, frost affecting their growth. By spring-
time the hortickler can get his order filled, prepar-
ing the ground in the meantime, and inside three
years he will have the makings of an all-Australian
shrubbery that will put him in a good temper every
time he looks at it.
“Dingbat”: When the battalion charged
Scutt charged too—the wrong way. When we came
out of the line two days after, with dry throats and
empty bellies, dragging feet and aching bodies, he
was still among the missing. On reaching our rest
gully, Hartley, McNab and I agreed to pool our
NOT IN THE LEAST PARTICULAR.
BARBER : “Look here, I can’t shave you if you don’t sit still.”
INEBRIATED CLIENT: " Orright, cut me ’air!”
rations. In those days one felt the need of com-
radeship. Besides, making tea and stev in the one
mess-tin leads to endless trouble. After half-an-
liour’s search we collected enough wood for our needs,
and soon our three mess-tins were comfortably set-
tled on the fire —one for tea, two for stew. Bully
and pounded biscuits were the only ingredients, to-
gether with a small onion that Fortune had thrown
in our way. You’ve no idea how good it smelt.
Poor old McNab ! I can see him now, sitting close
to the fire so that he could smell the savory dish,
his mouth watering as, in anticipation, he ate that
meal a dozen times. It was just then that Scutt
announced himself. In the confusion of the attack,
he told us, he had become separated from the main
body and found himself among the Gurkhas. All
attempts to get into communication with us failing,
he had decided to throw in his lot with the Indians,
and had spent two ghastly days fighting with them
against fearful odds. “Humph!” we said. The
Gurkhas, we knew, had been in reserve for the whole
of these two days; and anyway, we were more inter-
ested in our tea just then than in 50 Scutts and
their lying yarns. He announced his intention of
having his tea with us, and as he was the only n.c.o.
left in the company besides ourselves we felt called
on to admit him to our impromptu mess and to
suffer in silence. He did not come empty-handed,
however. Seeing we had a stew cooking he reached
into his haversack and brought to light a tin, cov-
ered with Indian printing. “How would a curry go?”
he asked. We decided that curry-.powder would be
a great improvement in our stew, and he handed
over the tin. It had very little smell, so we con-
cluded that it was poor strength, being an issue to
Indian troops, and we threw in double the usual
quantity. Sitting down, we quickly got to work.
With the first mouthful we knew that all w r as not
as it should be. That curry had the vilest taste of
anything ever invented. It was all we had, though,
and, taking the risk, we polished it off. The
meal was hardly over before Scutt became ill.
It has ever since been a matter of great satisfaction
to me to reflect that the man who brought the
trouble on us was the first victim. McNab was
next, and, as matters were looking serious, Hartley
and I, who were only feeling uncomfortable, took
the other two to the doctor. At first he was
alarmed, but after hearing the story he asked Lo
see the cause of the trouble. He had had, it seemed,
several years’ residence in India, and thought it more
than likely that he would learn something from the
tin. I handed it to him. He read the inscription,
looked at McNab and Scutt, who were watching him
white-faced and round-eyed to learn their fate, then
at Hartley and at me. “O Lord!” he gasped, "do
you know what your curry-powder is ? Flea-powder!
And strong stuff, too!”
* * * *
“Haka”: When Henare gets thirsty the
only way to fasten him to his job is to include beer
in the menu. I had him working for me, and there
were no complaints until the cheques ran into double
figures. Then Henare opened his liberty campaign.
He informed me that after talking things over with
the staff a motion to quit had been carried. I offered
to double the wages if the motion was rescinded, but
Henare assured me that the wages were highly satis-
factory. “Well, then,” said I, “what’s the trouble?”
On learning that the tucker was the cause of the
disturbance, I explained that it was exactly the same
as that served to myself and the missus—beef,
mutton and plenty good fresh fruit and vegetables.
Henare’s courage failed him for a moment; but a
happy thought struck him and he let her go: “Aw,
it like bis, poss. The pakeha tucka no plurry cood
te Maori. To to te good day’s ’onest graft te Maori
must hap te tin pish, te talmon and te tardine.”
“FD7”: I have shot thousands of kan-
garoos in N. S. Wales and Queensland, and I only
once saw a doe with two young ones in her pouch.
I shot her in 1903, on Corrella station, Bourke
(N.S.W.). The two joeys in her pouch were about
six inches long. Talking about pouches, has any
Abo. seen a young porcupine? I wanted some quills
once and killed a pore, to get them. When I
turned it over there was a young porcupine in her
pouch. (I never knew before then that the ani-
mals had pouches.) The youngster was nearly pure
white, about the size of a turkey-egg, and the
quills were quite soft. I took it home, but
couldn’t get it to eat anything, and it pegged out
next day. Since then I haven’t killed a porcu-
pine.
* * * *
A Maori feast is the place for a holiday.
Recently a hui to the returned Maori Pioneer Bat-
talion at Putiki lasted nine days The menu cleaned
up was: 14 bullocks, 33 sheep, 40 pigs, 1200 loaves,
two tons of mussels, 2000 eels, eight tons of pota-
toes, six bags of cockles, and 30 sacks of cabbages.
And that was nothing to te peer!
* * * *
“Melos”: Birds’ eggs are very beautiful
—even the whole white of the diamond-birds, cocka-
too, parrot and others that nest in hollow limbs, etc.
Those of the plain-living birds are usually marvel-
lously camouflaged, as in the case of the stone
curlew, whose treasures are reddish-brown, tawny or
greenish, according to the color of the ground
whereon they are laid. Some of the most beautiful
are: blue, spotted with sepia (coachwhip) ; creamy-
white, with zone of brownish spots around top
(bloodbird) ; purple-tinted grey (lyre-bird) ; white,
with pink spots (white-throated flycatcher) ; apple-
green, with red spots (yellow-breasted shrike-robin) ;
pinky-cream, with zone of red spots (white-cheeked
honey-eater) ; light green (usually), with streaks or
blotches of red, lilac or purple (black-backed mag-
pie) ; brown-red (striated tit-warbler); pale brown,
with irregular, hair-like lines (babbler) ; light buff,
with red and purple spots (yellow-faced honey-
eater) ; pale blue (common mina and also star-
ling) ; greenish-blue, thickly spotted with reddish
brown (thrush). Perhaps the most peculiarly deco-
rated are those of the Queensland bower-bird. The
color-scheme is creamy or light buff, relieved by
dull, reddish-brown markings somewhat like the
characters on a cuneiform tablet.


c^'
CV^
sS cIGM® TES
Ur>l Qo^
JP iirlheir qualifies/,
T *Te
&
&*/>
o*^
atmode^
*£ P
/(J £
Sr«re^w®ss
CIGARETTES
..*• n \ •••
/ liO \/ The Famous %
% 333 | 10 for 8i
X ./•••-
Red Packet
STANDARD WEIGHT.
international
with
Cigar
The
ettes
an
reputation —distinctive
respect
every
m
SOLE MANUFACTURERS ARDATH*TOBACCO COY-U*LONDON,ENGLAND:-


1
m
m
m
N
Qtl £ST
T *ou
/§r ~ ! Xj&z
M\'**l\
ms£
/ croup jy
W.
irvrnnirmnimirfTni
EVERY Drop of
“Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure”
means
Destruction to
Chest Troubles
(Coughs, Colds,
Croup, etc.)
\Y. G. Hcarne & Co.
Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
New South Wales
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street, SYDNEY.
A Plain
Fact!
from a certain casualness about the Digger
—the casualness which led him to take
Mont St. Quentin- —he and his mates were
used almost continuously as shock troops;
and as Dr. Springthorpe, of Melbourne,
vehemently insisted, men cannot be used in
that way without a certain proportion suf-
fering from “nerves.” “Desertion ’ under
such circumstances is not the desertion that
calls for punishment of any sort, let alone
shooting. Sir Douglas Haig is a great sol-
dier ; but he was also an old soldier, and old
soldiers threw over their old rules of con-
duct with great difficulty. If it hadn’t been
for that, much greater use would have been
made of the aeroplane in the early part of
the war. Indeed, it is doubtful whether any
substantial use would have been made of
the aeroplane at any time had not Winston
Churchill, who was at the Navy, made an
entirely unauthorised expenditure of a few
hundred thousands in this direction. For
that alone Churchill deserves a far higher
place in public estimation than has thus far
been awarded him.
A Satchel of Books
Papa’s War and Ollier Satires, by Edward Gar-
nett (George Allen and Unwin, London). This is
rather labored work in prose, but bright in spots.
A book of the kind to really grip should carry its
meaning clearly to the average reader. Edward Gar-
nett doesn’t succeed in making his book do this;
but the various little parables have sharp points for
those who have an inner knowledge of English pol-
itics. Australian readers will be left guessing about
many of them.
Medley Songs, by George A. Hambidge (G. Hassell
and Son, Adelaide). The frontispiece shows a bright
young Australian face with laughing eyes under a
broad, thoughtful forehead; and the little book of
verse contains enough of promise to fill the reader
with a bitter regret for the gallant life sacrificed
in the great war. George Hambidge was a contribu-
tor to many papers before he answered the call; and
some of his work has appeared in The Bulletin.
The opening lines of the book give some idea of
his quality:—
“The flapper, Dawn, with sleepy sigh,
Wide stretched her arms across the sky,
And folding Night in warm embrace
Pressed both flushed cheeks against his face;
He scowled, and tore himself away,
As, frowning, came her mother, Day.”
For the work of a very young man that is remark-
able. He would have done much bigger things; but
he died of wounds received at the battle of Amiens,
August 8, 1918.
Sunrise Ilynins and the Litany of Liberty, by
Henry Patterson (H. Patterson, Flinders, Victoria).
The author of this little book of verse tries mostly
to live in a realm of superlatives and interjections,
with the result that his verse, while excellent in
occasional lines, is curiously pretentious and almost
painfully lacking in interest. The choice of words
is poor, and the rhythm is often faulty ; but there is
a hint of promise in most of the work.
“Shadows” and Other Verses, by Edward Tregear
(Whitcombe and Tombs, Wellington). Edward Tre-
gear is a poet. He has been many things and
rendered notable service to the workers of Maori-
land ; but, though much of his song has a rough edge
on it, there is no mistaking the fire that flares
up at times. In this little volume his faults and his
merits are both strongly in evidence. Some of the
verse is crude, some is only of interest in relation to
political movements; but there is something over
that is worth loving and treasuring. Here are the
closing lines of “A Whisper of God”: —
“Now is the hour of ‘the still small voice’- —this the
Immutable Word,
‘Justice and Mercy and Service’! —or the edge of
Anarchy’s sword !
This is ‘The Day.’ Will ye live? or pass with the
sins that are done?
Hark to the owls that hoot over dust that was
Babylon!
Hear you no whisper of God, old world?
Nay?
Sleep on!”
This, too, is striking—
“A coffin verse for me? But, I defy
The powers of Earth and Air to bury ME !
Bury my carrion deep, but I shall be
The lark’s song flooding from the vault on high,
The scent of violets when Spring is nigh,
The fire-cloud flaming in the sunset sky,
The thunder of the breakers of the sea!”
Much of the verse is as good as this ; and even in
the pieces that seem to fail there are good resonant
lines.
Trial and Probation, by Julian Mitchell. None
of the verses in this little book are very good, and
only a few of them are distressingly bad. The war
ns the theme, and most of the old" things are said
about it.
Moon of Israel, by IT. Rider Haggard (John Mur-
ray, London). This is the story of the Exodus
woven into a romance, with miracle and plague in
their old Bible place. The book will interest most
people who admired “She” and “King Solomon’s
Mines.”
The Coral Queen, by Beatrice Grimshaw (N.S.W.
Bookstall Co.). This is a vivid, but not always
convincing, story of Papua. A girl has a coral
island left her by an old man; the man who is
bound to marry her in the end becomes a viscount.
It’s all in the storyteller’s game; but how Eve's
children will hate that title! Still, there is any
amount of thrill and adventure in the book, and
fine tropic color.
Yellow Silver, by Edward Meryon (N.S.W. Book-
stall Co.). West Australian blacks, gold-seekers, a
bush-fire, a nice girl, a brave man, plenty of adven-
ture, the discomfiture of the peculiarly villainous
villain and a happy ending carry the reader along
briskly. It cannot be said that the yarn is well
told, but it keeps moving.
The Altruists, by Capt. C. S. Goldingham (George
Allen and Unwin, London). There is some color in
this yarn and a good deal of adventure. A young
naval officer who is just going to marry the girl
is accused of losing valuable papers which were in
his charge. The girl remains true; the plot of
the yarn grows strangely confused ; but it’s all right
in the end. The book doesn’t convince.
An Ethiopian Saga, by Richmond Haigh (George
Allen and Unwin, London). A South African native
yarn told in the antiquated English of the Bible,
but keeping the white man’s point of view. The
language is not too well handled and the number of
“And nows” is over the odds; but a lot of the
descriptions are good and the whole is readable. A
few native proverbs which are introduced have a
distinct interest.
Wheels: A Third Cycle (Blackwell, Oxford). This
is a book of pretentious nonsense written in prose
and alleged verse by eight writers who might describe
themselves as “futurist” or by any other name that
is an excuse for insanity. There is a little feeling
and observation here and there, but it never amounts
to anything. The whole could have been easily
contrived by a person of very clumsy brain during
an hour or two of intense drunkenness.
The Inky Way
Mullen’s of Melbourne have lost their man-
ager, P. V. Morris, who is taking over the
helm of the new co. which will in future
supply the railway bookstalls. Morris came
to Mullen’s from George Robertson’s Sydney
house in 1913 and made the old firm bound
ahead.
“Chanco” : The recent retirement of Ernst
Hartung from the music critics of Melb.
Herald removes a picturesque figure from
the Inky Way. Tall, finely-built and erect,
despite his 70 years, he gave a dignity to
the job and his musical judgments were
good.
Simpson Newland, of Adelaide, who has
lived 80 of his 83 years in Australia, has
just reprinted a pamphlet he wrote long ago
on the history of Encounter Bay, from 1802,
when Flinders encountered the French ex-
plorer Jaudin there. He is the right his-
torian for the job, for his father —preacher
and farmer —was practically Father of the
district after it was first discovered from
the land side, about 1840.
“Artex” : The high prices obtained for the
Hilder water-colors at the Baldwin Spencer
sale—up to 130 guineas—are a sign that
Australian art has come into its own. Hilder
is dead and his water-colors are few in num-
ber ; the price of the best must rise. But it
is not necessary for the good artist to die
before his art is appreciated. The work of
Streeton, Norman Lindsay, Gruner, Mclnnes
and Heysen is selling at very geod figures.
In addition, art books of fine quality are
being produced here and selling well. Credit
is due to Sydney Ure Smith, who produced
the -first little Hilder book, published by
Tyrrell’s. That had an astonishing success.
It was followed by “Art in Australia,” a
biennial magazine, and “The Pen Drawings
of Norman Lindsay.” Two books now undm;
way—“ Domestic Architecture in Australia”
and “The Art of Arthur Streeton” —will add
to the excellent work in book production now
being done in Australia.
“Hamer”: The leg-pullers have been busy
on the limb of the prosy English press. One of
them declared that he had been at Mons, and
afterwards went to Salonika. There, being
taken prisoner, a brutal Hun officer ordered
a Turk to brand him on the brow. “The
Man with the Branded Brow,” as the news-
papers called him, then became interesting.
He was made master of the harem of a
Turk to whom he was allotted; and subse-
quently succeeded in making his escape
through the fidelity of a beautiful slave-girl.
As proof of the verity of his assertions his
photograph, in various positions, showing
the branded brow, was exhibited in the
paper columns. But, a few weeks later, the
War Office printed a mild statement to the
effect that the man had been officially in-
terrogated, and admitted that his service
with the Army had only extended for a few
months, during which time he had been with
a labor battalion!
“Baarmutba”: Died of cholera while on
service in Palestine, old-time Bulletin versi-
fier and writer Arthur Desmond, or “Ragnar
Redbeard” behind his pen. He was a
Maorilander of Irish extraction, and widely
known as the author of the book “Might
is Right.” Perhaps the most notable of his
verses were “Exult for Te Kooti.” which
were originally written for The Bulletin
and subsequently appeared in the first edi-
tion of “The Golden Shanty.” Long ago
Desmond was the poet of The New Order,
Sydney, and was there associated with
Hughes, Holman, Tom Batho and Monte
Scott (the artist), John Willard, Arthur
Pilter and others. That period will be
illuminated in a proposed “History of the
Revolutionary Movement” which Batho has
in contemplation. Arthur Desmond also,
about May, 1893, founded a sixpenny
paper of his own in Sydney and called it
The Standard Bearer. Later, becoming
associated with John Dwyer, it became the
official organ of the “Active Service
Brigade” of Sydney. The group were a
queer lot, with their “Two Circles” and
“Right and Left Triangles.” Desmond will
always be remembered for having, at the
1893 Political League Convention, written
and spoken the undying hostility resolution
against four recalcitrant Labor members
for their action in supporting the Dibbs
Ministry, thus keeping the Government
longer in power. “Redbeard’s” most vehe-
ment and vigorous verses are quoted at
the conclusion of “Might is Right.” and are
entitled “The Logic of To-day!” They
glorify the gospel of Force. Desmond prac-
tised manfully what he preached for fully
30 years.
THE BEST NON-SELLER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The author’s task was at an end,
His book was fairly out;
He looked to every faithful friend
(They said he’d thousands) now to send
It humming round about.
Days passed; his ear upon the ground
Poor Scribe caught not the hum,
He did not see the book around,
It did not bring a single pound.
The author’s heart was glum.
Some fifty of his masterpiece
He’d sped gratuitous
For press reviews, and to decrease
Its bulk, from which he craved release
As from an incubus.
Time sped, and still the volumes lay
In terraces so neat.
Then, grown quite desp’rate, on a day
He took three hundred books away,
And set them in the street—
Three hundred books men should have prized
Where city’s vortex spun,
And on the top a royal-sized,
Red notice set he, which advised
The public: “Please, take one!”
Two days had passed, Scribe went once more
(Still desolate his mien),
To count the offered copies o’er.
Alas! the zinc-lined case now bore
Three hundred and fourteen I”
VICTORIA.
BILLY TEA.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“D.F.” : Australia’s first export of timber
goes back to 1795, when Lieut.-Governor
Paterson allowed the master of the Experi-
ment to take a cargo of “the mahogany and
cedar of this country” to India. In the
next few years one or two shipments were
sent to British navy yards, and in 1804 the
ship Rose of Nantucket (IJ.S.A.) cleared
from Sydney for Canton with 70 tons of the
“wood of this Colony” on board.
* # « *
“Clingstone”: Various Bulletin writers
have described the cafeterias of Cairo,
America and elsewhere; but I barrack for
the Continental Cafe Automatique. Before
the war there was a joint down the Rue
Neuf in Brussels. It was one long room,
down the centre of which were the usual
marble-topped tables and chairs. On one
side were rows of circular glass cases, filled
through an opening in the wall behind. In the
cases were oval plates of various pies,
sausage-rolls, sandwiches, scones and butter,
etc. On placing a coin in the slot, the floor
of the case revolved, a section dropped when
opposite the spout, and the plate slid out.
On the opposite side of the room were rows
of taps, where all sorts of drinks could be
obtained. There was no waiting, and the
only staff required was one to fill the cases
and collect and wash the crockery. All
these places have regular restaurants at-
tached to the quick-lunch section. Every
time I see impatient lunchers fretting and
overworked waitresses flying with trays of
food, I wonder why something of the sort
hasn’t been started in Australia.
* * * *
“G.H.”: The remarks of “Gleniris” (B
22/5/T9) regarding the record rent of £lO
an acre for onion-land in the Colac district
(Vic.) prompt me to mention some of the
record performances of producers in the
south-east of South Aus. This season a
farmer two miles west of Mt. Gambier col-
lected 280 bags (about 214 tons) of brown
Spanish from one acre. The land has grown
onions for the last 25 years, and its record
production is 302 bags. Another grower
adjacent to Mt. Gambier bagged 72 tons from
acres. The price received was £lO per
ton. As much as £lO3 per acre has been
paid for land in this vicinity, and it has
proved profitable to the investor. But the
soil in this small volcanic patch is probably
the most prolific in the Commonwealth.
* * * *
Following the custom of South Aus. coun-
try towns, the Beachport District Council
had a board erected at the local post-office
for the purpose of displaying public notices.
One of Webster’s sharp-eyed satellites saw
J? other day an account from the
I.M.G.’s Department was 'handed to the
Council for £lO, being rental of the space
on the post-office wall occupied by the tim-
ber. The Council is now having the board
removed, while telling the poet what they
.think of him.
* * * *
. “Bagasse” : After three years’ experiment-
ing a Honolulu sugar plantation has decided
to cover its sugar-cane land with paper,
much as a paperhanger covers the walls of
a room. To supnlv paper a mill has been
erected at a cost of £50,000 for making heavy
mulching paper from bagasse, the fibrous
refuse of sugar-cane after the juice has been
expressed. In the experiment the fields were
covered with this paper, through which the
sugar-cane drove its stalks, and all weeds
were smothered. The mulching process not
only increased the cane yield, but reduced the
labor, force by 30 p.c. Not only does the
covering paper keep the weeds out of the cane,
but more moisture is retained in the ground.
It will take 30 tons of bagasse a day to
make enough paper to keep 8000 acres cov-
ered. In San Francisco I have seen a
paper-mill turning banana-skins and leaves
into coarse paper, so bagasse and bananas
may yet furnish the raw materials for a
paper-making industry in Queensland.
* * * *
“Wart”: See the value the “Shop” puts
on its own wares:—
THE UNIVERSITY OF TASMANIA.
Applications are invited for the position of Clerk
in the Office of the University. Duties —To act as
Assistant Accountant, Correspondence and Filing
Clerk, and general assistant to the Registrar,
Academic qualifications and business experience.
Salary, £l5O per annum.
Better to be a slaughterman.
THE TESTIMONIAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
John Winterbottom Jones, a man
Of giith and iron will,
Went to the isle of Googledan
To introduce to Chizzie's clan
The Pebble Bilious Pill.
The agency in both the zones
Was held by Winterbottom Jones.
Jones had been told that Chizzie, chief
Of that Pacific isle,
Was suffering beyond belief.
The source, they said, of Chizzie’s grief
Was nothing more than bile.
“Here is,” said Jones, “my chance to fill
Those niggers with the Pebble pill.”
John took a shipment of his wares.
He found the chief in bed,
Distracted with dyspeptic cares.
He told him how the patient fares
Upon whose life is shed
Beneficent and healthful grace
By Pebble pills. Chizz took a brace.
Like magic then the Pebbles worked.
Before the week was done
Where he had groaned great Chizzie smirked.
No more his four square meals he shirked — 1
He took an extra one,
And, dancing like a happy lad,
Bought all the pills the agent had.
A testimonial has come
The pill’s high praise to sing.
The chieftain writes: “I am not glum ;
I eat my yams, I drink my rum,
I digest anything.
My faith in Pebbles to display
I ale your Mr. Jones to-day!”
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


A GOODYEAR All-Weather
Tread Tyre is like a Gigantic
Spool on which is wound innumer-
able miles. Let the tyre receive
that proper care and attention,
such as any man accords a trustworthy
servant, and your car will unreel
everyone of those valuable miles?
This reliability of performance
arises largely from the efficient
service of the sturdy, tough dia-
monds of the All-Weather Tread.
Their forward grip translates every
atom of power into motion. It is
this power economy that achieves
the eventual result of more miles for
less money.
P ositively - better - construction has
always been the goal of the Good-
year organisation. Its attainment is
evidenced by the miles and miles of
safe, satisfactory and power-saving
wear and service that the Goodyear
A.W.T. Tyre presents to the grati-
fied owner.
And it is the manner in which the
mileage is produced —the comfort
and reliance of the owner —the
saving of fuel —the confidence in
the surefoot security of the non-skid
tread, that places Goodyear on the
pinnacle of popular esteem.
Buy your Goodyear Tyres,
Heavy Tourist Tubes and
Tyre Saver Accessories from
the Goodyear Service Station.
There is one in your locality.
BRANCHES AND AGENCIES
ALL PRINCIPAL CITIES.
SERVICE STATIONS AND
DEALERS EVERYWHERE
u
M
&
A
a
\\\\\
•Y»W
H
<
Y
z//,
:X&
t&M
m
a


f V'- Tf • • '.TV . • Jj-
Jfopiefausii..
Wincheombe
■
Salesmen. •
N
Pi
For the
Motor Boat
NAIMAL
MOTOR OILS
arc the logical lubricant to use. By
their cleanliness, evenness and remark-
able viscosity they keep your engine
at that perfect running pitch that
enables it to produce ample propelling
power in any water.
Obtainable alt Garages
and Storekeepers
in 1-gallon Tins, 4-gallon Tins and
Barrels. Ask also for National Motor
Greases.
NATIONAL. OIL CO. LTD.,
A Bridge Street, Sydney.
JAMES WARDLE & CO , Adelaide.
p!ofe
! /M
oas
PWMW
«OTOReil3
H®t Shot l|®lferlef
are universally used for ignition purposes.
Being moisture-proof, they are especially adapt-
able for motor boat use.
Columbia Hot Shot Batteries eliminate the
necessity of connecting up individual cells, ho
trouble from loose connections—only two con-
nections to make in placing the battery in service.
The individual cell 3 are already connected in
series and multiples-series to give the desired
voltage and current. Columbia Hot Snot
Batteries are made in various sizes to give volt-
ages of from 3 to 9 volts.
Satisfaction is guaranteed when you purchase
Columbias. They are backed by more tnr.n
a quarter of a century’s knowledge of battery
manufacture. .
The Fahnestock Spring Clip Binding Post,
shown in the illustration, is a Columbia fea-
ture that sells bat-
teries. With this
Binding Post it is
simply a matter of
pressing down the
spring and inserting
the wire—and the
connection is made.
Dealers-Immediate
deliveries can be
DOWN
.HER*
made.
Write
for cat-
alogue
and de-
tails.
S BATTERY,
"WtsSSSS^
NATIONAL CARBON COMPANY. Inc»
Export Department
Cleveland, Ohio, U. S. A.
Cable Address:
“Carbon Cleveland”
M
HIGH-GRADE ZINC DUST
Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAND
Containing
about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTION^
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited,
“Collins House,” 360 Collins Street, Melbourne^^
Sydney Agent. tt’WTS 62 Brookman Buildings.
R. N. KIRK, 25 O’Connell Street. A. W. „ ,
The conditions ruling at this
time necessitate the strictest
economy in use of fuel and lubricants.
Such economy, however, need not entail any reduction
in output if line shaftings and machines are equipped
with
Self-Aligning
Ball Bearings.
—the bearings which are the best guarantee of efficient
and economical working.
Install S.K.F. self-aligning Ball Bearings throughout
YOUR plant.
•Jrl&S
■omm,
'//////A
V/////////////,.
in ;
*
*
1 Ton, $l9OO
Iy 2 Ton, $2350
2 Ton, $2600
3Y* Ton, $3350
5 Ton, $4400
F. 0.8. Detroit.
I&m — rr
U.S.
NAVY
1
What the Federal Motor Lorry has done in War
80 oer cent of Federate served the Allied Governments and five departments of
Urn United States Service, and the remaining 20 per cent was devoted to
essential industries. ,
Federal Lorries are now available for distribution to any part of the world.
For dependability under the worst possible conditions of road and load, for speed
and for economy in operating, the Federal has proved itself unrivalle .
Write us to-day for free magazine, “Traffic News”
—also for prices and discounts.
Federal Motor Truck Company
Factory :-Detroit, Mich. U.S. A. Foreign Dept.. 18 Broadway, New York, U.S.A.
try it in your bath
BY
APPOINTMENT
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
PRICE 1/3 BOTTLE.
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Etc.
SCRUBS & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
Arnold White, the English essayist, pleas-
antly compares the middle-class consumer of
to-day, suffering while Capital and Labe
fight at his expense, to “a stranded wha ,
with a crowd of obscene birds tearing at his
bowels and rending the bloody flesh.
“Polstan” : A Ballarat (Vic.) spud farmer
recently viewed with anguish the failing con-
dition of Ins two-acre plot. Although sur-
rounded by fields of praties whose greenness
showed never a blemish, his particular little
lot fell away miles a day. A search for the
strange disease showed that thieves had
cleaned out the paddock and replanted the
green tops.
After a long wait H. E. G. Thomas has
been made head of the Local Government
Branch of the Vic. Works Department. He
came in when Morkliam was Chief Clerk,
and was baulked twice in his effort to reach
his goal It will take him two years to
acknowledge all the letters he will get from
town clerks, shire secs, and councillors, for
they all know he did the work, although his
name was not signed to the letters they got.
“Agricola”: The everlasting shortage of
bronze coins is partly due to those frugal
souls who save all the coppers they receive
in change until they have a quid’s wortn,
and then take the hoard to the Savings
Bank. There is an old bachelor near Bega
(N.S.W.) who has never been known to
spend a penny. When he gets home from
town all the coppers he has received are put
into a kerosene tin. He now has two tins
full, and the bottom of a third is nicely
covered. The lot represents the hoarding ol
60 years. Said that lie keeps over 20,000
pennies out of circulation.
T. Jennings, of Moonee Ponds, and P. D.
Tracey, of Bourke-street, Melbourne, who
plead guilty to being 82 and 76 respectively,
are two of the survivors of the older men
who helped to form the Victorian Natives
Association (precursor of the A.N.A.) in
1871 They showed up at a dinner at Mel-
bourne Town Hall lately. The pub m
which the first meeting was held was con-
sumed by fire, a fate, T. O’Callaghan told
the gathering in his usual positive style,
which had not overtaken any of the founders
of the association. Of course not; they were
all men of angelic type.
“A railway employee working between
Albert Park and Middle Park stations saw
a woman walk on to the railway line and lie
down as a train was approaching. He was
too far away to warn her,” a Melbourne
paper says.
She lay down on the railway line,
According to her plan ;
No notice, though, was posted near,
To set forth in a manner clear
The foolish risk she ran.
Her thoughtless conduct could not fail
Attention to attract;
But no one on the spot was found
To demonstrate with logic sound
The rashness of her act.
And so, as the’ Melbourne paper finally in-
structs us, “she was run over.”
In his 86th year Major-General M. F.
Downes is devoting himself to Braille writ-
ing for the blind. He was considered an old
man 20 years ago, when George Turner,
then Premier, “resurrected” him and made
him military commandant of Vic. It was
one of the occasions when Turner showed his
backbone. Society, supported by Governor
Brassey, was using strong pressure to have
Colonel Bingham (husband of the Madden
dame’s sister) appointed. There are people
who say that Brassey remembered the inci-
dent when Turner applied for a dissolution
(after the McLean no-confidence challenge)
a few months later. Anyhow, Turner did
not get his dissolution ; but when the Parlia-
ment expired 11 months later he got back to
power. Downes held the job for three years,
and superintended the equipment of the con-
tingents sent to S’Africa.
“Stargazer”: I saw my first Gilbert and
Sullivan performance at the old Princess’s,
Melbourne, a curious, tin-pot building stand-
ing on part of the present site of the Spiing
street house. The part of the theatre I
patronised was accessible only by _ way of a
rather long, narrow lane, and my impression
of the place is of an interior not unlike that
of a circus tent. On this particular night
it rained, and presently my companion drew
my attention to a marked bulge in the ceiling
right over the orchestra stalls. The bulge
increased as the rain continued and the
opera progressed, and presently, at an inter-
esting moment in the fortunes of the heroine,
that bulge broke like an over-ripe boil, and
poured a stream of dirty water on one poor
patron of the front seats, a stout, middle-
aged, very low-cut lady. Is was such a
stream as might have spurted from a large
tap, and played persistently on the chosen
victim, who wallowed and sprawled under
it, and presently arose, a pitiful sight, satu-
rated, dirty, gasping and wigless. It was
just in accordance with the cussedness of
things that that downpour should have lit on
the only bald woman in the whole house.
“The Honest Burglar” : If I’d listened to
my feet instead of my head I’d have been
seven years less in gaol. It’s one of the
risks of the profession. I watched a villa
for weeks and noted that the old couple
went out every Monday night, so one Mon-
day I get inside and start work. Things are
going nicely, when I look up and see the old
’uns. I jump up and thrust my arm back of
my coat as if I have a gun. “Now you/’ I
says to the old man, “ffit.” He gits quick.
“Ma’am.” I says to the old lady, who is
about 80. “I don’t want to hurt you. Please
go.” “No I won’t,” she snaps, “you’re a
burglar,” and she rushes at me. I push a
table between us and jump out of the win-
dow into a lane at the side of the house. At
the end is a high partition dividing the front
from the back of the property. My brain
works. “Now,” I thinks, “the old boy’s gone
to the front of the house to raise a police-
man. I’ll skim over this partition and get
out the back way.” I jump over clean on
top of the old man, who’s been shivering with
fright in a dark corner. He sets up a yell
and a neighbor jumps over the fence and
nails me. If I’d gone to the front of the
bouse I’d have got clean away. I did the
old chap’s courage too much honor.


MR!
!
u
X
■■
HHH
mm
.
'A J.
■
■HI
■
■
m
444^44
■
■all
■
S&4
Hi
m
mm
■ 5 :-* ;;
■ -■ ;v
■
• 4 t . * *
gif’ t % ■ “*' *r. •
1 ~,Js /S* s< *
'... .r. w* JM
..: ■ ■; v; •.
y
<«*
111111 l
HHHmI
m ns
: ■ mm
■ i
MHI
-• . ..
■BHIImM
11—1111
m
gyP3 yj
- -
H
giSIiiSfIS
i^—BiW
■s !
Hi
* ■
■
■■ ■
11
■■h
BMBi
WXM
|
i P
/ • HI -? ■=;
Wagm
sfei
*•. ■
■
H
£& •
H
HB
km
Pm
m
m
4
■ , .. . '■■■,■
' i
'■ 4
' i
All-wool
Oxford
Grey Suiting
F all Winter
Weight.
You can
be fitted
as if the
Suit was
specially
made for
you .
Our Only Address
in Australia.
The Event of the Season!
Pure Wool
London Ready
Opp. G.P.0., flelbourne
Tailored Suits.
NO more striking demonstration can be bad
of the way London Stores are holding
down prices and holding up quality than
the offer that starts to-day of Men’s and Young
Men’s All Pure Wool Oxford Grey Ready-
Tailored-to-Wear Suits at 58/6.
The Material was ordered for last Winter’s trade,
but arrived too late. Right through the summer
we held on to it because it’s a special winter-weight
warm, all pure wool, with a fine Cheviot finish.
And all the time prices kept going up.
Perfect Fit and
Satisfaction —or
Money Refunded.
These Suits show the perfection to which London (opp.
G.P.0., Melbourne) Ready-to-Wear Tailoring has been
brought. Clean cut flowing lines to the coat, shapely
lapels and collar that clings to the neck. Vests have
4 pockets. Trousers made with side and hip pockets and
cuff bottoms. Good, durable linings and trimmings have
been used throughout.
Quite a new innovation with this offer is that, although
the Suits are Ready Tailored, we’ll send patterns of the
Oxford Grey Material. Fill in and post the Coupon
NOW. You can be fitted as if the suit was specially
made for you.
Actual Value
84/-
for
Carriage Paid to Any Address.
OPP.
G.P.O.
Melbourne
wmjm
<o
A'
&
6
*
0
<9
0
&
0
r
/


(2?$ e
Jj&fysiety
OPECIALIZED
methods in
in£ and knitting pro-
duce in Luxite Hosiery
a closely woven tex-
ture of remarkable
durability and re-
splendent beauty un-
surpassed for the
money by any other
hosiery in the world
Don’t accept substitutes and think
you have "Luxite.” Insist upon
the genuine. If your dealer is
unable to supply you, write us.
Walter Cathro Pty.Ltd.
York Street, SYDNEY.
Used the
World Over
a
MOTOR
...CARS
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
tfOSI'
o*tf~
1
The NEW EDISON
most wonderful
of musical instruments.
Throughout the years following the invention of
the Phonograph Mr. Edison never lost sight of
his determination to make it a more peifect
musical instrument.
That he has realised the goal of his ambition The
NEW EDISON clearly demonstrated, for this is
an instrument that absolutely re-creates the
human voice with remarkable fidelity, not losing
even the minutest overtones.
Musical critics who have listened to the artist
singing in direct comparison with the instrument
have failed to detect any difference between the
voice and its re-creation.
You really should have The NEW EDISON in
YOUR home.
Write for full details, mailed post free.
THOMAS A. EDISON. LTD., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
sf V
/> tf'X
\ N
//
\s
; 'V'
BIGGER
PROFITS
for manufacturers
of metal articles
(sheet, bar or pipe).
THOMSON Electric Welding is the royal road to bigger
profits in metal or sheet-metal manufacture. Thomson
Electric Welding Machines dispense with trained
workers —the machine does the welding and the opera-
tor’s effort is mechanical.
This Thomson Spot Welder is joining muffler sections
(composed of 24-gauge iron) for motor-cars at the rate
of 30 per hour. There are 56 welds in each muffler.
The speed leaves riveting all behind—the electric wel
is miles ahead of any other process, and it is impossible
for it to break loose, because it makes the muffler one
strong piece.
If you manufacture metal parts or sheet-metal goods
digest these figures—s 6 welds in each muffler, 40
mufflers per hour—ls,l2o welds in nine hours!
What the Thomson Electric Welding Process saves on
mufflers it will save on almost any metal manufacturing
work.
The variety of metal and sheet-metal articles that can
be profitably manufactured by the Thomson Electric
Welding Process is remarkable. Not only does it reduce
costs, but it increases quality. Send us sketches of your
metal-welding work and we will tell you how to reduce
the cost of them.
Benson Brothers L-td.
71-75 [^BOURNE.
IAA Street, ADELAIDE.
GOOD LUCK TO Y, MA’AM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
London newspapers lavishly illustrate the marriage
procession of Princess Patricia and Commander (etc.)
the Hon. (etc.) Ramsay.
Four white horse 3 to your caravan,
Trailing you and your gold-framed man —
And then ?
Four white shillin’s, and me in a van ;
But (a nudge to ourselves) at my feet’s a man —
And then ?
N.s.w.
EVE.
“Kaylee” : The smaller the town the bigger
the panic. Orroroo (northern S.A.) had
a ’flu case recently, and the unhappy vic-
tim was removed to the hills, though there
was a vacant racecourse, not to mention an
empty showground, and parklands all over
the place. As a matter of fact, the patient
could have got all the isolation he needed in
the main street.
An interesting relic on the quarterdeck of
the New Zealand is a mis-shapen mass of
steel about 3ft. in diameter, with a dent in
the middle. It is mounted on a pedestal
with the date of the battle of Jutland on it.
The New Zealand, although engaged at Heli-
goland Bight, the Dogger Bank and Jutland,
was hit only once by the enemy, and the
piece of metal is a relic of the smack. It
came from the inside of the aft turret and
was forced off by a nearly-spent German
shell. The enormous heat generated more
than half-melted the metal, apparently.
“D.F.” : About the first vessel to make any
sort of success of the sandalwood trade in
the South Pacific was the schooner Marcia,
owned by Simeon Lord, of Sydney, and com-
manded by James Aickin, which brought 15
tons from the Fijis towards the end of JS'M.
In the same year Lord chartered the Yankee
ship Union to get a cargo of sandalwood
for the Chinese, but the captain and
Lord’s supercargo, John Boston, were killed
by the natives at Tongatabu and the Union
was wrecked. Another Yankee vessel, the
Fair American, which cleared from Sydney
for China on November 7, 1804, picked up
some of the Union’s cargo on the way.
“Wondaih”: Of course the Diggers saved
more churches than the cathedral at Amiens.
They saved every church in Australia.
Here’s part of the reward. An Austialian
girl who has been conducting an elementary
school in the school-hall of a northern
(Vic.) Presbyterian Church has been ejected
by the committee on the ground that the
infants were damaging the furniture. As
there is no other place available, the girl
is deprived of her living. The church honor
roll, unveiled with patriotic fervor, includes
the names of three brothers of the ejected
tenant —two still on active service, and one
in a Vic. military hospital.
“S.T.S.”: As a subject for a wager, the
topic of American consuls in Australia has
great possibilities. First of all, how many
are there? —not consular agents (who are
frequent), but real consuls, of the U.S.A.
diplomatic service? For obvious reasons, one
or six will be the usual guesses, with a few
taking a chance on two;. but the winning
number is a complete outsider, four. Next
event, to pick the location of those four.
Svdney and Melbourne, of course; but an
imaginary totalisator might return a ±5ll divi-
dend to anyone naming Adelaide and New-
castle, which are the only other places where
Uncle Sam’s gen-u-ine banner is hung out.
A Sydney servant-girl embarked on a
very forlorn legal hope lately. She sued
a Darling Point householder for £lOO because
a poodle—alleged to belong to the house-
holder —had bitten her. It is hard to arouse
sympathv, anyhow, in connection with a
poodle-bite: poodles slide automatically into
the harmless category. Further, in all dog-
bite cases the Law requires pro. f of scien-
ter on the part of the owner—knowledge
that the animal has the biting habit. It is
a difficult matter to prove legally, even m
the case of dogs which are practically
man-eaters. And, finally, the poodle d d
not belong to the householder. It was a
stranger which had wandered in unasked and
had vanished as mysteriously as it had come.
Verdict for defendant seemed a fair thing
in the circumstances.
“Snell”: The ramifications of the native
timber trade in Melbourne will bear looking
into. The game is manipulated by one of
the most audacious rings operating in Aus-
tralia, and the mill-owner who does not bow
the knee to Baal, that omnivorous deity
being the corporate agents, has a fine fat
chance of having his stuff rot before it is
marketed. The agents charge 8 per cent,
for passing the goods on, and another 7-J per
cent, for collecting the money—lsJ per cent,
on a single deal! And they get the business,
for the excellent reason that not more than
two or three merchants will handle direct
timber, or deal in any way excepting through
the ring of agents. The systematic boycott
of bush millers who buck at the middleman’s
extortion suggests that the merchants are
an integral part of the cast-iron ring that
works on the small mill-owner very like a
garrotte.
“Gleniris” : During the year ended March
29 last the Repatriation Department handed
£6BBl to “men awaiting productivity of
land.” The returned soldier is mostly
settled on Crown or cut-up land, which has
to be turned into a farm by the soldier’s
own labor, or on farms sold as going con-
cerns. The right sort of soldier may do well
on either, leaving aside sustenance-allow-
ances ; yet some men are bound to fail. The
payment of allowances in large amounts —
some of them in cases which most farmers
would consider to be foredoomed failures —
suggests that some economy could be accom-
plished by adopting the share-farming plan,
by arrangement with private owners. Many
soldiers are getting “experience,” on allow-
ances, or not always adequate wages, when
they could be more happily employed on
shares. If the soldier “loses out” on that
plan, after a fair trial, he can try something
■else without any necessity for a lot of pain-
ful financial adjustments. If he succeeds, he
gets a fair immediate return for his labor.
Then he is a farmer, and if that doesn’t
settle him lie can go talk to the wheat pool.


“CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
At the War.
■m.
W:
dkg*
WM
-m
K>y.
t'A
m
&K-
-ajffs
Jr i
0m
"Kv
w&.
'£/ v
It a.
/'>/ ,
i\ \a-
( '
2k«!s
r'. : f
r 4
AS
i
5 »
4
&5*
/
¥
Z\
&
ass
2
SSi
M
■
X.
7
N
f
W
(3
? fig
/
X
ini
I jf\\
AW
m
%
m
>%X
(j
m
•i&m
szW£
m
m.
aW.4
m
.bS
■■ jUI
. -
ii&SK
fiaSSSISiIS
im -
m
m
is®
■ I
MI
1/
r
hW
■ (3
;>•' «.’;:*
.
u Yj
m
• t?
s?
a
Cobra.” Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Keeps the Kaiser
Working. You
Ought to see
The “Cobra” Three
Finding work for
Ge rmany!
“Cut the wood, Bill!’
Is the cry
As the toilsome
Days go by.
Sawing 1 logs of
o &
Generous girth,
Bill sees “Cobra”
Cleaned the earth.


Will prove a revelation to those
who use it for the first time be-
cause of its absolute purity, deli-
cate medication, refreshing fra-
grance and super-creamy emol-
lient properties for preserving,
purifying and beautifying the
skin and complexion, two soaps
in one at one price.
On rising and retiring smear thefecewithCu-
ticura Ointment, wash off in five minutes with
Cutlcura Soap and hot water, using plenty of
Soap, beat applied with the handa which it
softens wonderfully, and continue bathing
with Soap two minutes. Boap to cle»n*»
and Ointment to heal. R. Towns & Co.,
Sydney, JV. S. W." Sold everywhere
Influenza.
“PLENTY OF MILK” is the doctors’
advice in all cases of influenza.
FRESH MILK modified by
Mellins Food
forms the best diet throughout the
course of the attack and in convales-
cence, because it is more palatable,
more easily digested and therefore
more nourishing than milk alone.
OF ALL CHEMISTS AND
STORES.
Price 2J6 per large bottle.
Sample and booklet free on request.
Mellins Food Ltd.,
Colling wood.
AGENTS:—
GOLLIN & CO. PROPY. LTD., Melbourne,
Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane.
ELEY
.CARTRIDGES.
Always Reliable
1
ELEY 'Grand Prtx’
Cartridge Case, loaded with
Eley Smokeless, Ballistite,
Smokeless <3> Diamond,
Schultze, or any other
standard smokeless powder.
ELEY
*450
Revolver
ELEY
380
Revolver
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
ELE Y BROS. L» LONDON
AFTER A HARD DAY’S
WORK
You want something to tone you up, help
you enjoy and digest your dinner and have
a good night’s rest. Try a tew drops of
phosfo
rmo
THE ROYAL TONIC
This is a real nerve invigorator, and will tune up
your whole system, so you can tackle the work
and worry of these days, with ease and certainty.
PROVED FOR 50 YEARS
All Chemists
1/- - 2/6 - 4/6
Ashton QC Parsons Ltd.
London and Melbourne
g| cac. Qrz^>
HIGH-GRADE SHEET METALS
BRAND | o/vc- brand
BRASS, COPPER, NICKEL SILVER
ALUMINIUM, GILDING METAL
MANUFACTURED BY
THE COLONIAL AMMUNITION CO. LTD.
GORDON STREET, FOOTSCRAY, Vic.
Obtainable from all the leading Hardware Houses in the Commonwealth.
SALES OFFICES s
VICTORIA—CoIIins House, Collins Street, Melbourne -
NFW SOUTH WALES—SB Pitt Street. Sydney - - *
QUEENSLAND— Campbell’s Buildings, Creek Street. Brisbane
Phone Central 1995
Phone City 2677
Phone 2382
C A-c
0
o-vo
CAP
c-a-cmJ -
JIJJJJJ
Present
delay
means
future
delay
Only by ordering your post-war
Sunbeam now can you be sure of
early delivery when we are again
able to build private cars. Delay
now on your part means unavoid-
able delay then. The marked
supremacy of the world-famous
SUNBEAM
cars in every branch of war service
evidences our ability to produce the
finest type of car after the war, and the
demand in consequence is greater man
ever before in the firm’s history. This
is no mere advertising phrase but literally
true. Therefore if you intend to own a
Sunbeam, order your post-war model now
The Sunbeam Motor Gar Co., Ltd.
Export Department: 54-62 Oxford St., London, Eng.
Head Office - Wolverhampton, England
At a dinner given by the Chosen Pe°Pje
in London to General Monash— the first Jew
to reach his rank—the chairman (Lieut.-Gen.
Solomon, R.E.) described the Censor as the
man who keeps the people s tail up bj burj
ing its head in the sand.”
“Iris” • The keenest business bloodhound
in Melbourne is the suburban undertaker
who provides gratis an ambulance to take
influenza patients to the hospital. If there
a little burying job later on—well, you know
who your friend is!
It seems that Bananaland had Bolshies
from the very jump. George Bowen, the first
cocked-hat \n the North, who took charge in
1859, wrote: “As to money wherewith to
carrv on the Government, I started with just
Sd A thief broke into the Treasury a
few nights after my arrival and carried off
the 7^d.”
“Ike Pagliacci”: Many years ago my
friend Briggs, who is a haberdasher, made ins
only sea-trip from Melbourne to Sydney en
route to a way-out job. When he c , a ™ e
back to the city recently I met him, and ve
proceeded by ferry to Manly. On reachnib
Pinchgut he exchanged Ins howler fo F
violent check cap and inquired, Well, shall
we take a stroll around the deck t
“Montana Lou”: Strange criticisms drop
from the hayseed. Generally he picks out a
minor artist for his praise. When Ada
Reeve was playing Toowoomba I asked one
of three local people who had foregathered
what he thought of Ada. “Didn t think much
of the orchestra,” was his comment, ine
second critic enthused over Kennedy Allan.
I pointedly asked the third for an opinion of
the comedienne. “Oh, I didn’t mind her, he
drawled.
The Christian Brothers and their sup-
porters are jubilating over the fact that they
have been allowed to postpone the drawing
of their Art Union until September 30, and
with this extension they hope to considerably
add to the funds already gathered, which,
owing to the influenza epidemic, still tail
short of requirements. Brother J. N. Moore,
St Mary’s, Sydney, can supply any further
art-union tickets that helpers may be
anxious to obtain.
Amongst the presently-to-arrive is Lt.-
Colonel Cheeseman, D. 5.0., M.C., and
French Legion of Honor, who was born at
Wickham, Newcastle, in 1894, m the street
in which his father was born m 1872. Grand-
father Cheeseman, who quitted the sea to
settle in Australia, married a Miss Hicks;
and her parents go back to the early days
of Newcastle. The Port Hunter Railway
Co., which undertook the building ot tbe
railway from Newcastle to Maitland, chat-
tered five ships to bring workmen, stores,
etc., to the scene of operations; and the
Hicks family were on board the first that
reached Australia.
The N. S. Wales export of coal —
not the supplying of bunker coal .to
ships, but the premeditated turning
into money of an asset that can t be
replaced and the furnishing of ammunition
to foreign manufacturers —dropped from
2,560,000 tons in 1912 to 356,000 tons in
1917. It would be good news if it meant
that this country had resolved to keep its
fuel to feed its own industries. Unior-
tunately it was merely a matter of lack of
foreign ships to carry away our capital
not Canberra, which wouldn’t matter, but
our mineral wealth —so there is -nothing to
coo-ee about.
Yic. John Hops are coming around to the
view that their titled new Chief is a human
sort. On his way down to the wharf to see
how things were going in connection with
the strike, Steward hopped out of his car
(his own motor, by the way) and purchased
a hunk of silverside corned-beef and several
loaves of bread. xhese eatables, he. brought
along to the men on duty, thinking they
might be a bit peckish after breathing ozone
and excitement. Following upon his plain
talk to the Government regarding fair pay
for the Force, this and other little displays
of interest have made the beat-striders think
that he really means to improve their lot.
“Exile” (from the U.S.A.) : Cement is
fighting asphalt for its life. All roads here are
made with cement as the base, with a top
crust of asphalt, and they are as perfect as
roads can be made. The cement makers have
become road-material men so as to share in
the present vast expenditure for U.S. high-
way construction. We in Australia need
good roads more than anything else, except
good government, and as we have no asphalt
our Governments and municipal bodies should
go into the matter of using cement, instead
of stone, for foundations. The ingredients
for cement exist plentifully throughout the
continent. Who will take up the big ques-
tion?
“Eddyson”: Coincidence is not legitimate
literary material, but sometimes it makes
you sit up and think. A few weeks ago. I
wrote a set of verse, since published m
“Poverty Point,” telling of a man’s visit to
a new acquaintance and his meeting at
dinner an elderly lady who awoke vague
recollections. Later, finding the good grey
dame singing the old music, and dancing
weirdly under the stars on her own, the visi-
tor recognises her as a girl from the “Old
Guard” ballet of 1896. In the dark of the
morning after that set of verse was sent to
The Bulletin, I and my wife were awak-
ened by peculiar noises in the street just
beyond our sleeping-out place. On the
other side of the road we could descry in
the grey light of dawn a tall, brown-faced
old woman standing with her hands thrown
up to Heaven, singing the Jewel Song from
“Faust.” At the woman’s feet was a rough
bundle; her hair hung loose about her shoul-
ders. She sang in Italian. Presently she
spoke with impressive elocution and dramatic
gesture, then sang again—snatches from
“Maritana,” “Rigoletto,” “Carmen,” “Lucia.’’
and “Trovatore,” all in Italian. After this,
to my great amazement, she took a mouth-
organ from her pocket, and playing an air
from “Madame Angot” she danced wildly on
the footpath. The performance lasted half
an hour or so, and then the woman gathered
up her hat and her bundle and went
off, apostrophising high Heaven in culti-
vated diction.


mm
«** * w
m/H
ff
£ : :: : K:
3tM|: % :'
.
i»:
msm
I
Kr,^
EdSIS
ihm.l pd Mil i? J
t* ♦a;-:- 'i-rtftv'fe
HE EVEREADY STORAGE BATTERY affords battery users a unique product, free
|||| jt from the troubles and cares coincident with Storage Battery Service. Its operation is entirely
unhampered by the existence or formation of ruinous or abnormal sulphation, which is
present in all other types of lead acid Storage Batteries, and which is the cause of 90 per cent, of all
Storage Battery troubles. CThe complete elimination of sulphation from the EVEREADY Storage
Battery means a Battery free from constant care and attention, to prevent its ruination. It insures
the maintenance of the full porocity of the plates, thus preventing loss of capacity and efßciency--
making frequent recharging unnecessary, which insures longer life.
OTHER EXCLUSIVE FEATURES
The construction of the EVEREADY Storage Battery com-
prises many new features not found in other types. The
plates used (in addition to having staggered ribs with keystone
locking design of grid and being made of pure antimony lead)
are cast with feet or ears on bottoms of plates which rest alter-
nately on tops of the four bridges in hard rubber jars, which
form supports for the positive and negative groups. The posi-
tive plates and negative plates do not rest; on the same bridges.
This prevents short-circuiting caused by sediment accumulating
across the tops of the bridges from positive to negative plates—
as is the case, in general practice, when both positive and
negative plates rest on the same bridges. This EVEREADY
construction also permits the use of jars with flat top bridges.
It can readily be seen that this combination prevents the in-
cessant vibration which most Batteries undergo, from causing
the bridges to cut into the bottom of the plates. The plates,
being particularly rugged, will withstand frequent and heavy
overcharges, and will not be liable to buckle on heavy discharges.
CHANDLER
am
Y"-
6 Volt H Assecr^t^
FORD
H
.
-A
m
6 Volt J A&Sfc/V»til>
OVERLAND
I
8 ''
6 Volt RL Assembly
The EVEREADY STORAGE BATTERY is made of the
'best material the markets can furnish, and manufactured by
skilled workmen in a factory equipped with the most modern
machinery and equipment procurable. This enables us to
guarantee our Battery with the positive-time written guarantee.
A DEFINITE GUARANTEE
Each EVEREADY STORAGE BATTERY is sold with a definite-
time, written Guarantee against ruinous sulphatitfn. The Starting Type
is guaranteed for 18 months, and the Lighting Type for three years.
This guarantee is definitely stated as follows: "To require no over-
charging after being left: idle or discharged, and to require no removal
of plates or electrolyte when not in use, and to require no attention
whatever when left idle except the replenishing of distilled water. NOT
TO BE INJURED BY SULPHATION when idle or if allowed to remain dis-
charged or undercharged during the guarantee period,"
MOODY 8c CO.
543 KENT STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W. AGENTS
HOLLAND PROPRIETARY LTD.
i 7 McKILLOP ST., MELBOURNE
VICTORIA AGENTS
THOMPSON, MEGGITT & CO. LTD.
DAILY TELEGRAPH BUILDINGS
SYDNEY
FACTORY REPRESENTATIVES
The handles furnished with EVEREADY
BATTERIES are designed to fit all kinds
of hold-down arrangements.
EVEREADY BATTERIES ARE FREE
FROM RUINOUS SULPHATION
MAXWELL
ft*
■B
6 Volt R As&smbljr
STUDEBAKER and
HUPMOBILE
M Vrjft A^crubTy
BUICK
o
*
6 Von RL Assembly-


A. Saunders’ Nut Dish and Cracks, pure Silver-
plated, A 1 quality, embossed border, 70/-
A. Saunders’ Dinner Cruet,
Silver-plated Frame, Crystal
Glass Bottles, 45/-
pure
Cut-
A. Saunders’ Casserole Dish, pure Silver-plated, £3.
A. Saunders’ Flower
Vase, pure Silver-
plated, Gilt-lined,
5-inch, 11/0.
A. Saunders’ Butter Dish, pure Silver-
plated, A 1 quality. Crystal Glass Dish,
22/6.
SILVER-PLATE
A Saunders’ Biscuit Barrel, polished
Oak, A 1 quality, Silver-plated
Mounts, Porcelain China lining,
85/-
A. Saunders’ Combination Fruit and Flower Stand pure Silver-plated, A 1
Quality, highly burnished, £B/10/-
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller, 805-815 George Street,
SYDNEY (Opposite Railway Station).
A. Saunders’
Vase, pure
plated, A 1
clear Crystal
6/3.
Flower
Silver-
quality,
Class,
A. saunders’ Jam Dish, pure
Silver-plated Frame, Fancy Glass
Dish, 25/-
T: 3
A. Saunders’ Cake Basket, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality,
highly burnished and engraved, 42/-
A. Saunuers’ Hot Water
pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality
highly burnished, 75/-
A. Saunders’ Afternoon Tea Stand, pure Silver-plated,
Gilt-lined, £5.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LOUD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68i PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the worlL
GIBSON’S
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide.
High-class Residential Hotel.
Tariff: 15/- per day inclusive.
8/= per day Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands ot cases
Of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/3 per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
Over 30 years ago the late Lord Beaconsfield
testified to the benefits he received from Him-
rod’s Asthma Powder, and every post brings
similar letters to day.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Best Remedy for Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout A ustralasia.
BOOKS! BOOKS! BOOKS! FOR EVERYBODY!
The Book of Nature
A FULL AND EXPLICIT EXPLANATION
OF ALL THAT CAN OR OUGHT TO BE
KNOWN BY
MAN and WOMAN,
INTENDED ESPECIALLY FOR
THE MARRIED, OR THOSE IN-
TENDING TO MARRY.
By L. M. BYRN, M.D.
A PRACTICAL COMPLETE
FAMILY DOCTOR.
No such Complete Panorama of the Mysteries
of Human Reproduction has ever before been
[riven to the world.
DR BYRN’S ILLUSTRATED EDITION
11917 ISSUE) IS THE ONLY GENUINE
BOOK- ASK FOR IT, AND TAKE NO
OTHER. PRICE:
TWO SHILLINGS & SIXPENCE.
POST FREE.
Live and Learn, 2/-. How to Get Rich,
1/6 posted. Dr. Lamartine’s Silent Friend,
1/6. Ned Donnelly’s Art of Boxi.no, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, 1/6. Ilow to
Dance, 1/6 posted. How to Wrestle, 1/6.
Moll Flanders (a rare book by Defoe), 1/3
posted. Thurston’s Card Tricks, 1/3. All
Zola’s, including Nana, 2/6 each nested.
Educating the Horse, 1/3. Ventriloquism
Made Easy, 1/3. Up-to-date Comic Becitur.
1/6 posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/3. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist.
latest edition, 6/6 posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, 1/3, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(send for list). Tea Cup Fortune Telling, 1/3.
How to Make Your Will, 1/3. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 2/3. The Australian Fruit
Gardener, 1/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/6. Par-
lor Tricks and Games, 1/6. Fortune-Telling
by Cards, 1/9. Life (a book for Men and Women
of To-day), 2/-. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales,
1/9. Tricks & Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/6.
Beauty’s Secrets, 1/6 post free. Night of Temp-
tation, 2/-. How to Make Love, 1/3 post free.
Fowler’s Science of Life, 12/6. Australian
Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 4/-.
Mahomet’s Fortune-Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price 1/-, posted 1/3.
How to Become Quick at Figures, 1/3. Will
Power (Personal Magnetism), posted 1/-. San-
dow’s Book of Strength posted, 4/-. Car-
lisle’s Freemasonry, 6/3 posted. Daughters
of Ismael, 2/6. History of the Rod Flagella-
tions and the Flagellants (scarce), 15/-.
Practical Gas and Oil Engine Handbook. 5/6.
Motor Mechanics, 3/9. Motor Manual
(latest), 3/6. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 1/-
and 2/3. God and My Neighbor, 9d. How
to Read Faces, 2/-. Adventures of a Sydney
Barmaid, 1/-. Colonial Horse Doctor, 2/-.
French Polishing and Staining, 2/3. Photog-
raphy Self-taught, 1/6. How to Make
Sweets, Jams and Syrups, l/'2. New Tricks
with Coins, 1/3 posted. House Painting and
Papering, 2/3. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
12/6. Australian Pastrycooks’ Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS— LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/6 posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/6. How to Read Faces
and Heads, 2/-. Soldering, Brazing, etc.,
2/3 posted. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/9. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; 1/3 posted.
Camille, 1/6 posted. Piano Tuning and Repair-
ING, 2/3. Modern Etiquette, 1/3. Hoyle’s
Card Games (llules for all Gaines), 1/6. How
to Mesmerise, 2/-. Man from Snowy River,
4/-, Poultry Keeping, 1/3 posted. Parlor
Magic, 1/3 posted. The White Slave Traffic,
1/3. Every Man His Own Carpenter, 1/6.
Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator,
1/1. Secret History of the Court of Eng-
land, 2/-. Letter-Writer Up-to-date, 1/6
posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, 1/6 posted. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-; 1/-
posted. Electricity Made Simple (new), o/-.
The Confectioner’s Handbook, 1/6. Sexual
Knowledge for Everybody (with plates), 6/6
posted. How to Shine in Society, 1/6.
Cabinetmakers’ Handybook, 2/-. Complete
Bookkeeping, 2/6. Life of Deeming, illus-
trated, 1/1. How McDougall Topped the
Score, and Other Verses, 1/3. French
Self Taught, 1/3. Wannan’s Engine-
driver’s Guide. 6/- posted. Decameron op Boc-
caccio, 4/6 each, posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 2/- posted. Women’s Secrets, 1/-
posted. Gay Life in Melbourne, 1/- posted.
Secrets of Beauty, Health and L° nq Bife
(50,000 sold), 2/- posted. A Bed of Roses, 4/6.
AH These Prices Post Paid.
Established 30 Years.
DON’T BE FOOLED
INTO PA YING (WORE.
New Tricks with Cards, 1/6.
ine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs. 1/3
Milford's Midwife's Handbook,
Sappho, gemi-
: posted. Dr.
92 practical
Send stamp for my
BIG ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
illustrations, 3/'-. Aristotle, 5/-. Adam Lind-
say Gordon's Poems, 1/9. Practical Palm-
istry, 2/-. Guide to Auctioneering, 3/6.
Lovers' Letter-writer, 1/6. All About Incu-
bators, 2/3. Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed,
Key to All Degrees, New Edition, 1/9 posted.
Vest-pocket Dictionary, 1/6 posted. Tokology,
10/6 posted. Ingersoll’s Works, 1/3, 2/-. How-
to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 2/- posted.
Ciievasse’s Advice to a Wife, 3/9 posted. Bread
and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-boilers' Assist-
ant, 2/-. The Wife’s Handbook, 1/3 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, 1/- posted. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness
and its Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster's Large
Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus.,
leather bound, my price, 20s. post paid. O'hy
pav 3 and 4 guineas?). Bootmaking and Repair-
ing, 2/3. Dynamos and Electric Motors. 2,3.
Moore's Universal Assistant and Complete
Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 12/6 posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, 1/3 posted.
Henry Lawson's Humorous Verses. 1/3. The
Age of Reason, by Paine, 1/3 posted. Rasputin,
the Monk of Evil 2/9. One Day, 1/3 posted. The
Wizard's Manual, 1/3. Speeches from the
Dock, 2/-. Life’s Shop Window, 2/-. Three
Weeks, 2/- posted. The Escaped Nun, 2/-. Six
Women (by Victoria Cross), 2/-. The Black
Prophet, s'/3. Tom JoxNEs (Fielding), 3/-. Aus-
tralian Miners and Prospectors' Guide, 2/-.
Adventures of John Johns, 2/6.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, the big book store, 67 g 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
|BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH. ““•! .


Wanted.
I ENGINEER wanted to take charge ot
U Mechanical Department of a -New
South Wales Colliery, output 600 to 1000
tons daily. -
The position calls for a man ful y
qualified and experienced in modern practice
and economical methods. .
Reply, quoting record and salary requuea,
t 0 COLLIERY, Box 113 G.P.0., Sydney. _
Missing Friends.
clary McKenzie.
ANNOT find you at old address. Kindly
communicate at once.
DON INQUIRES.
TO MARIA HARTSHORN, sister of
Henry Hartshorn deceased, and for-
merly of Auckland, New Zealand, and all
brothers and sisters of the said Henry Hart-
shorn and all persons claiming by, through
or under them.
Pursuant to an Order made on the 14th
day of April, 1019, by a Judge of the
Supreme Court of New Zealand, you are
hereby called upon to send in to the under-
signed on or before the 31st day of July,
1010, your claim to the estate of Henry
Hartshorn who died intestate at Henderson.
New Zealand, on the 3rd day of December,
1917, failing which the estate will be distri-
buted among those entitled thereto disre-
garding your claim.
Dated at Wellington this 17th day of
April, 1910.
G. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office.
Wellington, New Zealand.
Legal Notice.
Notice.— in the estate of
ELLEN STEWART late of Glebe
Point in the State of New South Wales
Widow deceased intestate.
The above Ellen Stewart died intestate on
36th June 191 S and was a daughter of
Patrick Handley and Catherine Handley
(nee Cooney). The deceased came to
Sydney New South Wales in about the year
1884 and it is believed at that time there
were living her brothers James Handley of
Papitoito near Auckland and Michael Hand-
ley of the Thames River New Zealand and
her sisters Annie Ray the wife of Thomas
Ray who it is believed was at the time in
New Zealand and Mary Brentnall. The
said Ellen Stewart died intestate without
issue and her husband John Fleming Stewart
predeceased her. The said Marv Brentnall
is resident in New South Wales and Letters
of Administration to the Estate of the said
Ellen Stewart deceased were granted to her.
by the Supreme Court of New South Wales
in its Probate Jurisdiction on 26th January
1910.
The said James Handley Michael Handley
and Annie Ray or other their or either of
their issue or next of kin or any person
knowing the whereabouts of any of them
or their issue or next of kin are requested to
make themselves known to the undersigned
not later than 31st July 1919 on which date
the distribution of the Estate of the deceased
will be made and upon satisfactory proof
being furnished of the relationship of any
of the above with the said deceased they will
participate in the distribution of the said
Estate according to the legal status in which
they or any of them stand to the deceased.
C. Marmaduke Deane and Haselhurst,
C. Marmaduke Deane & Haselhurst,
Solicitors for the Administratrix.
Ocean House, 24 Moore Street,
_ Sydney, N.S.W.
/ T v O DAVID SIMMONDS of Fitzroy near Melbourne
" L in the State of Victoria Laborer.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation bearing date the
4th da}' of February 1919 has been issued in the
Supreme Court of South Australia citing you to
appear and answer the Petition of Rupert James
Baldwin of Kensington Terrace Norwood in the
State of South Australia Miner praying for a disso-
lution of marriage wherein he alleges that you
have been guilty of adultery with Mary Baldwin of
Adelaide in the State of South Australia.
IN DEFAULT of your so appearing you will not
be allowed to address the Court and the Court will
proceed to hear and determine the said allegations.
THEREFORE TAKE NOTICE that for the purpose
aforesaid you are within 20 days of the date of the
appearance of this advertisement to attend in person
or by your Solicitor at the office of the Master of
this Court Victoria Square Adelaide and there to
enter an appearance in the manner prescribed by the
Rules made in that behalf.
(L.s.) W. L. STUART, Master.
ARTHUR SEAFORTH BLACKBURN, 22 Waymouth
Street, Adelaide, Solicitor to the Petitioner.
Easy to Keep
Hair Trimmed
Distance from a barber’s need not matter when
you have a good pair of hair-clippers. The hair-
clippers illustrated are made by one of the best-
known firms in U.S.A., and are thoroughly reli-
able. Solidly made of steel and with extra combs
to slide over end, enabling hair to be cut in
different lengths. Simple to use. Post free. .
12/6
Manufacturers’ Selling Agency
8 Spring Street, Sydney,
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, BellS Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office—
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
G
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
Amusements.
linrr.v Rickards Tivoli I'lteatres JLtd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
1" I\() I, I TIIEA X K K. SYI>N IC Y
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Matinee Wednesday, 2.30.
THE BETTER ’ORE.
Captain Bairnsfather’s World-famous Comedy.
Plan at Nicholson’s and the Tivoli.
-|*IVOEI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH D. McINTOSH PRESENTS
THE FASCINATING MUSICAL PLAY,
THE OFFICERS’ MESS.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- & 1/-, plus tax.
HOTEL
METROPQLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF from 12/6 per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 4/-
and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particu-
lars posted on application to
The Manager.
RemjfLpan,
Remington umc cartridges
are made and tested for every
standard make of pistol and revolver.
Their uniform accuracy and absolute
reliability make them the favourites
among shooters of this class of fire-
arm, whether used by the expert marks-
man or by the casual purchaser for
self-defence and safety.
Write for special booklet
free upon request
REVOLVER “■'PISTOL
CARTRIDGES
REMINGTON ARMS UMC COMPANY
D. D. BRYANT. Australian Representative
Box 686. G. P. 0„ MELBOURNE A
m
safeguaroyoor health
qYJ.CoJHs Browne's
CWorodyae
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOB
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
anil in the Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & S/mp/e Dysentery,
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, I.H, J/-, 5/-.
Made in England.
The “different” Food!
Benger’s Food differs from all others because it contains
the means to partially digest the fresh new milk with
which it is prepared.
This means much, because the inability to digest milk—
and only by proper digestion is its nourishment obtained
—is very common. Always use
Food
for backward Infants, Invalids, and Aged persons because
even the weakliest among these obtain the full benefit of
the milk, and all enjoy and thrive upon it.
Bender’s Food is entirely British in origin, ownership and manufacture. It is sol! in tins
by Chemists, etc.everywhere. Carefully follow on the tin when preparing it.
Booklet and full particulars po3t free from :
BENGER’S FOOD LTD., MANCHESTER, England.
BRANCH OFFICE: 117, Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at New York (U S. A.) 90, Beekman St. Depots throughout Canada.
221 A
A SEASONED SHAVER.
“Many’s the Razor I have tried, but there’s none
like the ‘Plum.’ ” So spoke a seasoned shaver, and
his experience is echoed by thousands of others.
Join the big crowd who swear by
THK “PLUM” RAZOR.
PRICE. 10/6-POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
The above makes a handsome present.
“Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/2 Tube, post free.
All the above Post Free. Send for our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
Tried and Trusted—
The “PLUM
Razor.
ii
Amusements.
ItITEItION T II E A T HE, SYDNEY.
w Direction J, C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.
The Leading American Comedy Star, M. B.
FIGMAN, togetlier with LOLITA ROBERTSON
in
NOTHING BUT THE TRUTH.
Pox Flan at Paling’s. Day Sales at Callose’s.
§-l K It M AJUSTV'S, S Y I) N E t
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45. .
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday.
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S TREMENDOUS
PA NT.OMI ME EXTR AVA G A NZA,
GOODY TWO SHOES.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Day Sales at White Rose.
T h t e ar k e royal, Sydney.
Lessees .... J. c. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
ALLAN WILKIE REPERTORY SEASON.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
WILSON BARRETT’S WORLD-RECORD DRAMA,
THE SIGN OF THE CROSS.
lhe Play of Pagan Lust and Christian Fortitude.
Plan at Palings. Popular Prices.
pAI. A C E TIIEA T K E, SYI)N E Y.
EVENINGS AT 7.45.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY & SATURDAY at 1.45.
J. & N. TV IT, BAILEY & GRANT'S
SECOND ANNUAL PANTOMIME EXTRAVAGANZA.
JACK AND JILL.
THE PANTOMIME WITH THE PUNCH.
Box Plans at Nicholson’s.
w
I It T H S ’ CIRCUS
Anti Great Water Pantomime.
NEW HIPPODROME, HAYMARKET.
EVERY EVENING AT 8. '
MATINEES WEDNESDAY & SATURDAY AT 2.30.
A COMPLETE NEW CIRCUS IN ALL ITS
GLORIOUS SPLENDOR & OPULENT VASTNESS.
Prices: 5/-, 4/-, 3/- and 2/-, plus tax.
Children under 10, half-price.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
UNI O N PIC Tllt IS TIIISAT It IS 8
THE PICK OF THE WORLD’S FILMS.
Presented in -the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYCEUM.
STRAND. GLOBE, LYRIC, EMPRESS
MAJESTIC, GRAND, KING’S CROSS
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
gYD N E Y GtACIA It I U M
TRIUMPHANT REVIVAL OF ICE-
SKATING.
Three sessions daily: 10 —12, 3—5, 8—10.30.
Special Children’s sessions, Saturday Mornings.
Admission: 2/- plus tax. -Skates, 6d. extra.
DUNBAR POOLE, Manager.
LJ Kit MAJESTY'S THEATRE, M KLBOUKNIfi.
* * Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. PRESENT THE
AVIATION MUSICAL PLAY.
GOING UP.
Plan at Allan’s, Prices as usual.
r II E A T It E It O Y A l„ MELBOURNE.
1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present Everybody’s
Favorite,
MURIEL STARR, in
THE SILENT WITNESS.
Plan at Allan’s.
Prices as usual.
K
ING’S THEATRE. M E T, It O U It N E.
Lessees: BAILEY & GRANT-
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, JUNE 14.
N. TAIT Revive the Brilliant Mystery Play.
DE LUXE ANNIE.
Prices: 10/-. 7/6, 5/-. 3/-. 2/- Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Proprietors—BEN and JOHN FULLER.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AT 2.30.
DENIS KEHOE’S IRISH PLAYERS in
MOTHER MACHREE.
Popular Prices.
Plan at Pianola.
OYT’S THEATRES, MEUIOI’HNI
Also SYDNEY.
LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (ov<
Princes Bridge).
TUTS* WEEK’S FEATURES:
DOROTHY DALTON in
A'TVE LA FRANCE.
GLADYS BROCK WELL in
CALL OF A SOUL.
Prices as usual.
|y|AJESTIC THEATRIC. .MELBOURNE
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
NORMA TALMADGE in
THE FORBIDDEN CITY.
Plan at Allan's.
LACIAIt I U M, MELBOURNE.
ICE-SKATING
SEASON NOW OPEN.
DI GILIO’S BAND.
I ELBA
THEATRE.
MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
; productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPII; PATHE,
JRLD, FOX and SELZNICK.
»RITANNIA THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
PRESENTING THE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. and 6d.


ABBOTS LAGER
K
1
Jot
rA
V
o
%:
1 ■
|W 6 E Pi
Made from Pure
Malt and Hops
Only
The Icy-Hot Vacuum Bottle
for Holiday Outings and Travel.
An “Icy-Hot” Vacuum Bottle occupies but little space in the
basket or bag-, and it dispenses with the necessity of making fires
and carrying a “billy.” Motorists, train travellers, nurses on night
duty, yachtsmen and innumerable others use this guaranteed bottle
under all conditions and find it a great convenience.
The “Icy-Hot” is a real VACUUM Bottle, made on the scientific
principle, and made well. Keeps hot liquids steaming hot 24
hours; cold liquids icy cold for three days. It is beautifully -
finished in nickel and Morocco.
Pints, 25/-; Quarts, 35/-*
Peapes’ Pay Postage.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 & 311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Goody Two Shoes”
Criterion “Nothing but the Truth”
Royal “The Sign of the Cross'’
Palace “Jack and Jill”
Tivoli ... “The Better ’Ole”
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
Haymarket Hippodrome Wirths’ Circus
Glaciarium Ice Skating
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Going Up”
Royal “The Silent Witness”
Kino’s “De Luxe Annie”
Tivoli “The Officers’ Mess”
Princess’s “Mother Machree”
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Mblba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
GIacIaRIVM Ice Skating
“The Officers’ Mess,” described on Mel-
bourne Tivoli bill as musical comedy, is
straight. old-fashioned farcical comedy
streaked with song and dance. As a rule
it is happiest when it doesn’t sing, although
a conventionally pretty duet by Marie Le
Yarre and Hugh Steyne, in Act 3, is a not-
able exception to the rule. The ditties are
mostly built on the lines of Gilbertian patter-
songs, set to music of a strictly unmelodious
character; but the solos that fall to Vera
Pearce are slow, sentimental and uninterest-
ing. In short, there is much room for im-
provement on the musical side of the show,
and considerable need for touches of color
in the girl characterisation. “The Officers’
Mess” entertains, but it doesn’t hilariate.
Complications resulting from an advertise-
ment re some lost jewellery which wasn’t
lost at all, and the disappearance of dia-
mond necklaces and things that were either
stolen or given away by mistake, are
only moderately humorous. Moreover, the
course of misunderstanding requires massive
Vera, unobtrusive Goodie Reeve and even
Celia Ghiloni (who has a strong person-
ality in any sort of part) to seem miracu-
lously artless and confiding. The men con-
trol the situations. Bert Clark is bright
and breezy as the liar-in-chief, Hugh Steyne
supports him on the right, and Ellis Hol-
land completes a triumvirate of officahs
home on leave, the war being vaguely refer-
red to as a current event. Marie Le Varre, 1
apart from her half-share in the duet afore-
mentioned, contributes a ragtime coon-dance
as well as a spice of ginger to the proceed-
ings, and Lottie Sargent appears in the
capacity of an inopportune lunatic lady in
love with Clark. She goes to bed in the
’jamas of her beloved, and he clothes liis
embarrassment in her nightie on the other
side of a screen. Three scenes, and as
many changes of costume, impart variety to
“THE OFFICERS’ HESS,” AT
MELBOURNE TIVOLI.
Budge Hardbottle (Hugh Steyne) and Mr.
Hardbottle (Thos. Sidney).
the commendable efforts of the chorus, but
the third scene fails to give an impression
of an alleged houseboat afloat. Compli-
mentary allusions to Claude Flemming and
Kennedy Alleen are crowded out.
# %i ❖
At Princess’s on Saturday Denis Kehoe
changed his identity to Shaun the Post, and
sang and suffered for “Arrah-Na-Pogue” in
a manner more genial than heretofore. But
the warmth of his nature hardly affected his
voice, and it was rather a bleak and cheer-
less baritone that froze the sintiment of his
Irish hymns. Denis found a soothing and
purty Arrah in Frances Ivayher, a novice
in th* colleen business. Adele Inman, almost
buried alive in the heavy wig and riding-
habit of Fanny Power, bravely concealed
her feelings under a mask of smiling mis-
chief ; all the same, Peter Melling
(O’Grady) and W. Brian Ewart, as a leggy
Beamish McCoul, insisted that she was a
vision that made their hear-r-ts bate faster.
C. R. Stanford, in the part of Major Coffin,
showed few signs of life. Barney Egan
i (Michael Feeney) maintained the old Bouci-
caultian tradition, from the sour cringe to
1 the slimy whine. Boiled down Barney’s
process-server would yield equal quantities
of oil and vinegar. Next Saturday “Mother
Machree” will be revived with some changes
of tune by the hero and his donah.
* ss * *
Allan Wilkie, tearing from play to play
at the Royal (Sydney), is now storming
; past the battered old “Sign of the Cross”
with his toga flying in the wind. Sydney
has seen less wooden and certainly less
hurried Romans; but Wilkie, in comparison
with the leisurely stars of other years, is
like a speeded-up poet dictating a sonnet as
he gallops to the railway station in a cab.
No sooner has he shaken the dust out of
one old play than he has to drop it and take
up the next. Frediswyde •Hunter-Watts
seems to be less successful than usual this
time. Mercia was never one of the cheeky
sort, but Frediswydetcetera makes the
Christian maid even limper than the author
imagined her. “School for Scandal” on
Saturday.
“Goody Two Shoes” is still paying hand-
some dividends at Sydney Majesty’s. The
good fairy, who looks as if she never misses
any meals, nightly fills the old chest of
drawers with money by the well-known
magic-wand method, and the Dame scoops
out handfuls of coin and notes and pays off
all arrears of rent without requiring a re-
ceipt. The lively music of the big show helps
it along briskly and the artistically-arranged
Kirchner ballet scene alone is enough to
draw the theatre-goer back for a second
helping.
* :|s *
It’s still “The Better ’Ole” at the Tivoli
(Sydney). All the armies will be home and
dried before Old Bill, Bert and Alf climb
out and look for another ditch.
H* »!* '!•
The handy Palace is where the Sydney
playgoer will find “Jack and Jill” filling in
three hours with song, dance and patter,
and somehow keeping touch with the simple
rhyme learnt at mother’s knee. There were
no three hours in it then.
$ *
“Nothing But the Truth” still continues
its hilarious career at Sydney Cri.
* * * *
The Edison “Diamond Disc” phonograph
was at home at Sydney Conservatorium on
Friday evening, and its throng of guests
didn’t know the difference between it and
Stella Power’s voice in Scott’s “Blackbird
Song.” Stella left the stage when the
record had got under weigh and the lights
were switched off; when the illuminations
flared up Miss Phonograph was found to be
in possession of the stage. Natalie Dawson
played with the charm and brilliancy that
made her popular with Melba; Max
Vogrich, Philip Wilson and Moore Mac-
Mahon added to the musical gold and silver
of the evening.
** * *
Wirth’s Circus, at the Hippodrome, con-
tinues to be one of the brightest spots in
the show epidemic which broke out after the
slump of the ’flu epidemic in Sydney. The
mysterious Howards, thought-readers, have
been added to the entertainment this week,
and wowsers who are secretly leading a gay
life, doing the tickletoe and Shaking the
Shimmy at dance-halls, are requested by
the management not to attend the Hippo-
drome. Their absence will save possible
exposures.
$
Mrs. Charlie Chaplin does her bit towards
paying the instalments on the cottage piano
by working out the marriage problem from
a new angle—“ For Husbands Only”—at
Sydney Crystal Palace and Strand. The
same houses demonstrate "A Woman’s Ex-
perience,” right up to the point where the
titled lover enters the lady’s boudoir. At
the Lyceum Mae Marsh and Mrs. Vernon
Castle diffuse their radiance in “Money Mad”
and “The First Law.” Beautiful Pauline
Frederick, in all the glory of Sardou’s “La
Tosca,” holds the Ilaymarket and Hoyt’s;
and at the Piccadilly and Australian the
one and only Theda has a perfectly ripping
time, first in a Buddhist temple, then in
Paris, with its eaf£s and its anaches; and
there’s the beautiful moment when the lady
dumps the husband she has just slain into a
trunk, turns the lock, and seats herself on
the lid to refresh herself with a cigarette.
* * # *
This is-the eighth week of “Going Up,” at
Melbourne Majesty’s, and still there is no
mention of an end in sight. The mystery
of Frith’s reputation for poetic genius and
personal beauty will be discussed until fur-
ther notice.
The last of Lauder at Melbourne King’s
is to-night (Thursday), and then he will go
roamin’ in the gloamin’ to Adelaide, taking
his wee hoose among the heather with him.
The delayed reappearance of Emelie Polini
happens on Saturday, and “De Luxe Annie”
is the play appointed for the occasion. Miss
Polini’s farewells are limited to three weeks
or so, for the lady of the convincing voice
is booked to leave Melbourne on July 9.
The discussion upon the nature of Wilbur
Weldon’s death is still raging in “The Silent
Witness” at the Melbourne Royal. There
seems every possibility of Louis Kimball
being electrocuted for the murder of the
youth, until Frank Harvey starts examining
the bloodstain and “proves” that Wilbur
perished by knocking his head against a tree-
trunk. The value of the evidence is dubi-
ous, but there is no doubt about the import-
“THE FETTER ’ OLE ,” AT SYDNEY
TIVOLI.
A French officer (P. L. Julian) and
Suzette (Audrey Worth).
ance of the Bloodstain, which ought to be
marked “x” in the plot. „ Algebraically or
otherwise, it is the unknown quantity in a
transparent tale of wickedness.
* * * *
Vivian Martin, as a young washerlady
devoting 'her earnings to the service of the
Lord, is one of the sights on Hoyt’s Mel-
bourne screens this week. The film,
“Mirandy Smiles,” is a double-barrelled
idyll in a Baptist atmosphere. In “Vive La
France,” Hoyt’s turn Dorothy Dalton loose
in a menagerie of German warriors and get
them scrapping fiercely over the dainty mor-
sel. Our old friend Gladys Brockwell is
also mobilised for service in a Fox thriller,
“The Call of the Soul,” and has a great
struggle in an uplifting cause before she
reaches the usual anchorage against the
hero’s heart. The Majestic flourishes a tre-
mendous cast for “The Common Cause.”
Sylvia Bremer is the camera’s favorite, but
the dazzling Irene Castle and the celebrated
Lawrence Grossmith are in the story. Bill
Hart, the undertaker’s friend, is also at the
Majestic. Bill’s ambition this time is to
serve up a perforated parson for annexing
his best girl in “Staking His Life.”
The postponement of Lauder’s season in
Adelaide disarranged things there. The
Williamson firm holds the Royal, but leases
it to any rivals of sufficient calibre, and
manager Myers had handed it over to the
Taits for an Emelie Polini season, to be
followed by Lauder. Putting the latter
back a week means that he has to go to the
Tivoli. Meanwhile “Eyes of Youth” has
to run on ; though it would seem that Gregan
McMahon might have been given the
chance to put his “Doctor’s Dilemma” and
“Pigeon,” alreadv successful at mutinies,
into the evening bill. However, the Ameri-
can play continues to win approval. At the
Tivoli is a kind of “Midnight Wedding”
melodrama, possibly not new, but now called
“Secrets of the Bolsheviks” ; Roy Redgrave
and Nellie Ferguson make it go with a cer-
tain dash. The Majestic continues much as
before, with Elton Black’s Scotch humor
added ; also Jones from Wales makes game,
humorously if irrelevantly, of Cappelli. At
Wondergraph, Charles Ray scores heavily
as a youth who was thought a boob (but of
course was too cute for the other guy), and
at the Pav. Harold Lockwood has a clever
masquerader or exchanged-identity story.
At West’s, Constance Talmadge, in “Who
Cares?” shows picturesquely how a fool-wife
can acquire intelligence while falling in love
with her own husband. , This house acknow-
ledges generous help from the rival Grand
towards overcoming the electric-power re-
strictions just enforced.
“Tup” Williams, who has recovered from
the severe illness which caused him to resign
his job as P.M., has again been appointed
associate to Irvine, C.J. Ex-Justice Hart-
ley, “Tup’s” dad, has been living “abroad
since he retired on pension.
Died at Sydney last week, M, J. Cahill, of
Hill, Clark and Co.—well beloved from the
Warrego to Aarons’ Exchange; a Geelong
native (sft. 3in. high, and he looked about
two yards and a half of Australian. He
went out 45 years young, of swift-running
pneumonia.
Drysdale Brown, formerly Attorney-Gen-
eral, will most likely get the Chairmanship
of the Yic. Leg. Couucil vice Arthur Otto
Saclise, the retiring Chairman, when the
House meets on July 8. Manifold is a
certainty for the President’s job, in place or
the venerable John Davies, gone out oL
politics.
Australia’s population would have reached
the five millions in 1914 but for the
war. Yet in spite of that drain the
mark was passed last September. There
were then 2,453,480 males and 2.546,514
females; but Australia was its fighting
forces abroad to the good, so Henry is
slightly in excess of Harriet. Knibbs esti-
mates that, at the present rate of increase,
Australia’s population in the year -000 will
be still short of 19 millions.
One of the handiest guides that the re-
turned soldier, sailor and nurse in N. S.
Wales can have is the Government lland-
book just issued. Strictly military nat-
ters, being the business of the Federal Gov-
ernment, are not dealt with, but a clear
explanation is made of the privileges and
services offered by the Ma State during fur-
lough and afterwards. The appendices in-
clude a map of soldier-settlement lands,
settlement statistics, lists of labor exchanges
and local repatriation committees through-
out the Slate. Copies on application to the
A.I.F. furlough bureau, Ilawson Chambers,
Pitt-street.
The State Arbitration Court, sitting in
Perth to fix the wages of bartenders, had one
witness whose boss will be pleased. He was
a barman at a Fremantle pub, who in reply
to questions told Justice Booth that he got
£3 10s. per week, with 30s. extra for Sun-
days. He said he worked every Sunday
serving bona fide travellers. He reckoned
he served about 2000 drinks on the day, and
he had another young fellow with him w r ho
would do about the same number. ’S’onor
said nothing, but was probably amazed at
the number of Sunday travellers at Fre-
mantle. The Court, by the way, awarded
£3 14s. per week alike for men and maids,
so the lady who pulls the pump will be the
highest-paid female worker in the West.
Another expedition to the South Pole is
on the stocks, this time from South Africa.
Professor of Zoology E. J. Goddard,
of the Stellenbosch Uni., is making the
arrangements, but these have been delayed
by the ’flu at the Cape. It was Goddard’s
intention to sail from Capetown in Decem-
ber next, but the chances of a start being
made in that month are not so likely now as
they were. His proposal is to spend two
years in the region between Enderby Land
and Coats Land, dividing his party into two
camps about 1000 miles apart, the ships to
carry out a complete oceanographical sur-
vey. If possible a party will also be landed
on one of the intermediate islands, each of
the camps to be in communication by wire-
less. The probabilities are that Ernest
Joyce, a notable member of the Scott and
Shackleton expeditions, who is now settled
in Sydney, will go as manager.
After all, there may be a thing or two
to learn even about running a newspaper.
Hugh D. Mclntosh, who became managing-
director of a few Sydney papers without
going through the mill, was waylaid in
London by a man who offered to sell him
articles written and signed by great ones
of the earth; and Mclntosh, no doubt in
perfect good faith, bought them and began
to publish them. When the Sun declared
that they were fakes the Sunday Times felt
so hurt about it that a writ claiming £20,000
damages for libel was issued. But when
the Sunday Times itself got from North-
cliffe—one of its alleged contributors—a
cable threatening action unless within eight
days the Sunday Times explained how it
came to put his signature to an article he
had never written, the unfortunate Mclntosh
reckoned the £20,000 was a blue duck, and
dropped the action. Which only shows how
wise the Full Court was the other day in
dismissing the contempt of Court proceed-
ings which Mclntosh took against the Sun
for returning to the attack after the libel
action had been started.


%
aft
\
%
#
31
if
m
XX
X
F.F
PP
FfF
T
?y
\
\\
@fi
T=»
V.
*SI
m
KW^SKjWcSW**..
r
o
\\
S:
V
/<
i
f
m
m
%
1
United States Tyres
are Good Tyres.
The Nobby Tread is built with a surplus strength that
means long life and low cost per mile.
Purchase this economical Nobby Tread next time from
UNITED STATES RUBBER COMPANY
(Australasia) Limited,
53 York Street, SYDNEY; and 130-2 William Street, MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND : Howard Motor & Cycle Co. Ltd., Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA : Bagot, Shakes & Lewis Ltd., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA : Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.)Ltd., Perth.
HOBART : Irvine & McEachern.
LAUNCESTON: Buchanan, Davidson & Co. Ltd•
NEW ZEALANDs Magnus, Sanderson & Co. Ltd.,
WeUingtom


£32 10 0
mm
£l4 10 0
£25
£l3 10 0
£l5
£l3 10 0
75, 77, 79, 81 Regent Street,
LONDON,
The Firm with a World’s Record
STEWART DAWSON’S
Their Ten Huge Establishments
are daily devoting their Ready Cash resources to provide their clients with
the World’s Best Values in Precious Stones, Jewellery, Silverware, etc.
YOUR CHOICE SHOULD REST IN QUALITY.
Pay due attention to the Quality of the Diamonds. You only get value where it exists.
The purity and brilliance of the stones in Stewart Daw'son’s Diamond Rings diffuse that
light and lustre known only in Diamonds of First Quality.
Inferior Diamonds neither give satisfaction nor pleasure ; to buy them is money wasted.
Stewart Dawson’s Diamonds stand supreme. Their Quality is the highest water-mark
of distinction.
ALL DIAMONDS SET IN REAL PLATINUM.
Any of the above Rings can be purchased at any of the Stewart Dawson Establishments.
Catalogue with Ring-size Card will be sent Post Free if desired.
STEWART DAWSON & CO. (Aust.) Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth, Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch, Dunedin.
!;ii'H!'.«Piiim
£6 10
£lO
£l2 10 0
jUIL'IIIJ Ujj|
£l3 10 0
£25
£32 10 0
19, 20, 21 Hatton Garden,
LONDON, E.C.
POVERTY
POINT
MOET &
CHANDON
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
“Ox”: Jefferson Tait has outdistanced all
other Australian stage villains, llis career
has been consistently criminal, whereas Vic-
tor Fitzherbert, Rutland Beckett and sundry
others have occasionally broken from paths
of vice. Laurence Dunbar was once rogue-in-
chief, but there was a white blot on his other-
wise shameful career. He once shed his
top hat and silken moustache and appeared
as an heroic parson. The vision of Dunbar
without his devilish mo. changed the whole
course of his career, confirmed galleryites
thereafter treating his stealthy gait as mere
hypocrisy, while his “Why do you shrink
from me, Gertrude?” hardly got a shudder
out of the timidest flapper. A stage villain
may not bare his face any more than a
•politician may bare his soul.
Ben Fuller is departing on a world’s tour
with his wife, three children and steamboat
tickets costing £lOOO. ; Twenty-five years
ago Ben worked his passage to Australia,
met his father by accident on the wharf, and
stopped on in the show business. On this
trip he will represent about half-a-million
of theatrical capital—most of it Fuller bul-
lion. His father shortly goes to California
health-hunting. Meanwhile brother John
remains at the helm, with brother Walter
controlling the Maoriland end.
“S.T.S.”: Struck a notable example of
resourcefulness on the stage in Adelaide
lately. The scene was that in “The Squat-
ter’s Daughter” where the villain shoots his
disreputable old father. After an alterca-
tion, “This will teach you,” cried the villain,
“not to” and he pulled out a revolver
and fired. “Click, click,” remarked the weap-
on, and nothing more. The undutiful son
leaved the situation. Still clicking the gun,
behind his back, in the vain hope that it
WIRT IPS CIRCES. AT SYDNEY
HIPPODROME.
Les Monfords.
fvould get to work somehow, he said “Come
here ! I have a secret to reveal to you. Meet
me to-night at the old woolshed and I will
4—Take that!” “That” was a push on the
Ijack of the neck. Father took the hint, and
jvent down as if pole-axed, while the villain
strode off —presumably to murder the pro-
perty-man. Unfortunately, father was not
quite equal to carrying on the good work.
He turned up sound and w 7 ell in the next act,
and instead of chaffing the undutiful son
on being a bad neck-pusher he followed the
“book” and chaffed him on being a bad shot.
“Peter”: I know that Eardley Turner had
the right to mount the model-stand in “The
Pigeon,” and I’m sorry if my par. suggested
that I was taking exception to that phase of
lii.s conduct. What 1 objected to was the
manner in which he delivered his two or
three lines. With his use of the adjective
“spiteful” in his reply (B. 5/6/’l9), Eardley
plays the usual pro.’s Jtrick of assuming that
the first critic impious enough to discount his
ability must be animated by some mean per-
sonal motive. I have no reason for criticis-
ing him barring a deep conviction of his un-
fitness for the adulation he receives from
certain sections of the press. In my view his
personality is fatal to the Repertory idea'. In
tnis sort of play his attitude conveys that
nothing succeeds like an excess of Turner.
“A.8.C.”: A Melbourne paper published
a caustic, musical-mannered criticism of
Leila Doubleday:
Never does she stir one to even the semblance of
an emotion. The one continual nagging conscious-
ness throughout all her performances is the know-
ledge that Miss Doubleday is playing correctly.
Correctness, accompanied by a pure, eternally white
tone, is almost depressing. A violin, however per-
fect, is not a color organ. Tone color is a delicate
by-product of the human brain and individuality.
That’s all right as a professorial outbreak.
But how much more straight to the point
was the vulgarity of old Van Biene when
somebody asked him his opinion of a chilly
’cellist playing at Melbourne Town Hall,
with a concert co., at the time when the
cockney Dutchman was appearing in “The
Broken Melody” at the Princess’s! “Ah,”
said ’cellist Van Biene, “if I had a left hand
like his, and he had a little of my grease, my
fried-fish feeling, we would both be great
artists.” Tone color is a product of fried-
fish feeling.
“Stargazer”: The trouble began with an
impertinent remark from a fiddler to the
effect that he was dash well darned if he’d
stand it. Later the man
behind the flute asked if the
gaudy management thought he
was going to contract rheuma-
tism for four quid a week.
The drummer said he was a
married man too. Then the
conductor joined forces with
the rest of the band and said :
“If you want me to keep this
billet you’ve got to provide me
with a diver’s dress and an
umbrella.” “What wou!d you
suggest?” wailed the manage-
ment. The conductor advised
that the comedian be placed
right up stage, or forced to
sing into some adequate recep-
tacle or another, or that
the orchestra be provided with
a damp course and a water-
tight roof. You see, the sing-
ing comedian is an extra-
ordinary spray, and appa-
rently inexhaustible. He sings
with great energy, and throws
innumerable minute jets suffi-
cient in the singing of an ordi-
nary song to water a buffalo
lawn 50 x 50. When the
theatre was last heard from
insubordination was still rife,
and the source of irrigation was still the
reigning favorite.
“Norbell”: About the first essay of the
Dampier girls was as the outrageous kids
in “Helen’s Babies.” I first saw Rose, who
lately died in Nebraska, as the poor,
neglected stable-boy in Bland Holt’s “Taken
from Life,” in the early ’eighties, her father
being then Holt’s leading man. Subse-
quently I was a member of the Dampier co.,
and saw her in many roles, her best being
Ophelia to her father’s Hamlet. She sang
well, and frequently cheered up the Dampier
dramas with an interpolated song. She was
a shy, nervous girl, well liked in the co., and
unmarried.
“Ike Pagliacci”: The producer had just
selected 15 girls from a clamoring 100 to be
supers in “Secrets of the Harem.” One of
the unsuccessful turned disgustedly to a
friend. “Fancy ’im picking Trixie Smith !”
she said. “I’m sure I look much more like
a sultan’s faverite than her!"
“The Happy Historian”: Actors don’t
hang well. I can find record of only one
Australian who took his cue from the hang-
man —Horton, who made his last appearance
on any stage in Adelaide many years ago.
And some who heard him said he wasn’t an
actor at all. Certainly the most dramatic
thing he ever did was the shooting of his
wife in a crowded thoroughfare.
“Harrison O”: Harry Lauder made most
of his reputation as a comedian by singing
in praise of a wee deoch an’ doris, and an-
nouncing that he was fu’ th’ noo; but nowa-
nights he prefers to tell his audiences in
mournful numbers life is not a roysterer s
dream. Requests from the gallery to “Sing
‘A Wee Deoeh and Doris.’ Harry, are liable
to meet with a few well-chosen platitudes,
and the comedian endeavors to fill the ach-
ing void with “We All Go Hame th’ Same
Way,” which is as jovial as a creditors’
meeting. In his talking between the verses
of a song Harry no longer mentions Cale-
donia’s national beverage, but whispers cf
“a coop o’ tea.” This may be good for an
audience’s soul, but is liable to cause it to
leave the theatre feeling that it has been
assisting at an “evening” presided over by
an elder.
“Pam”: I’m open to lay a shade of odds
that the Rigo opera crowd doesn’t get a
start in Sydney unless the unexpected hap-
pens and Rigo discovers a good fairy with
a bucket of coin. It is whispered in Mel-
bourne that the former backer has had his
fill of grand opera and founding a permanent
organisation in Australia. Too many
mistakes were made in the Melbourne season
to give the spec, a chance.
“M.P.A.”: A ramble around Melbourne
Princess’s, after a lapse of 18 years, makes
even a cold commercial soul feel much in-
clined to weep. The dressing-rooms are
dilapitated and the green-room is nothing
better than a store- or property-room. The
Gonsalez Opera Co. made the temple a mar-
ket-place. They seemed prepared to camp
in the building like a busking show doing one-
night stands, until it was made clear by the
fire-brigade that the spagget’ and the tomat’
had to be cooked elsewhere. In the old days
of George Musgrove the theatre had no
equal in Australia The green-room was
delightful, and Nellie Stewart’s dressing-
room was a fairy bower. The decorations
by Goatcher adorned the walls and the
dome; and, though the auditorium to-day is
fresh and tasteful from the brushes of the
lightning-like Coulter, his stuff cannot com-
pare with the masterly work of Goatcher.
AFTER THE STORM.
“She had a frightful go-in with the pro-
ducer —a regular battle of tongues!"
“Betcher life she held her own."
“Betcher life she didn't."
Goatclier’s cupids sitting on cushions around
the inner panel of the dome were exquisite.
At the time the painting was done Leon
Caron was in the chair, and he used to
bring little daughter Irma to the theatre
very often. Just before the cupids were
completed Goatcher painted a portrait of
the kiddy with a baton in her tiny fist con-
ducting the other cupids in the panel, and
so it remained till Coulter brought in his
swift and modern decoration.
“Smike” : There are some drawbacks about
being a movie star. Francis X. Bushman,
whose fatal beauty has thrilled many an
Australian female, was hauled into the
Divorce Court a while ago. Besides charg-
ing him with brutality unbecoming a picture
paragon, she accused him of co-responding
with a mysterious veiled lady in a rural
hotel. The Court was unable to get particu-
lars of the secret female, but there was never
any doubt about Francis X. When he
entered the pub he was recognised at once,
lake millions of her sex, the girl in the office
knew him by heart.
“Emdee”: “Norbell,” in stressing the
actors’ need of protection (B. 22/o/19),
forgets a poorer devil who also wants a help-
ing” hand. I mean the super, from whose
ranks some of our
of our best actors
have sprung. I
have had experi-
ence at the game,
and unless a super
i s prepared t o
adopt almost a cold-
turnip diet he will
find it hard to live
without doing work
outside the theatre.
Yet how to do that
and attend rehear-
sals is often a
knotty problem.
There is a tend-
ency to sneer at
the super, but few
persons are aware
that the fine cutlass
drill, which nightly
brought down the
house when “Har-
bor Lights” was
first produced at
Sydney Royal, was
not given by
trained sailors, but
by the ordinary
everyday sup e r,
drilled for the oc-
CAPPELLI, Tenor.
casion. It will be .
to the everlasting discredit of George Rig
nold that he was the first manager to reduce
the super’s traditional wage (2s. bd.) to
a night.
“Dial Sight” : As the man at the handle
of the machine has most to do with the rate
of movement of the figures in motion-pic-
tures, isn’t it up to proprietors to ask tor
a little more skill from this hireling t -A
20-stoner like Fatty Arbuckle shifting over
the ground at a speed no mortal ever
attained on his own legs may be worth a
laugh, but the marring of scenes of travel
and drama by crude manipulation has no
justification. Fight-pictures are another ex-
ample. One reads, for instance, that
“Jeffries in the ninth round showed signs of
tiredness and his feet dragged”; on the
screen it’s any odds that he will be hopping
round as nimble as Gen6e, and flaying the
atmosphere at such a velocity that his dooks
are hardly visible.
“Ike Pagliacci”: Broadly speaking, Hou-
dini was no faker. Of course, in a show
where he was limited to time he used tricks
of his trade, but he had a mania fur getting
out of things. With a London theatrical
agent I went, at the earnest solicitation of
Houdini’s wife, to persuade him to permit us
to let him out of a straightjacket. He was
in his bedroom and had been tied up lo
hours. His eyes were bloodshot, and he
looked at his last gasp. The agent hastened
forward to release him, but Houdini
snapped : “B , if you let me out I’ll blow
your brains out. Give me another hour.”
It didn’t look healthy to interfere, so we
retired to the parlor while the struggle con-
tinued. Forty minutes later Iloudini walked
in.
Sidney Drew, brother of the more famous
Jo!hn, “the American Charles Hawtrey,” is
dead of heart disease. He had a seizure
while playing in New York in “Keep Her
Smiling.” Sidney Drew did a deal of film
work, and he and his wife, who was playing
with him in New York, were well known on
the pictures in Australia.
Lieut. Charles Godfrey, one of the famous
brothers, all English bandmasters, has gone
west at SO. Charles was formerly band-
master of the Royal Horse Guards, while
his brothers, Dan and Fred, supplied march
music for the Grenadiers and the Cold-
streams. It was Dan who put the polish on
Australia’s great amateur cornetist, Duncan
Anderson, squatter and dandy boxer, of
Newstead. Inverell.
The latest American growl against the
London stage is that it is too American.
Every country—well, almost every country—
esteems the imported drama most, and *th>'
Yank manager, taking to England some of
his wares, looks for others to carry back to
N'York in exchange. Instead of which he
finds “Eyes of Youth,” “Going Up,” “Fair
and Warmer,” “Friendly Enemies,” “A
Little Bit of Fluff,” and a host more.
OUR PROGRESSIVE STAGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A room with seventeenth-century oak panelling
has been built on the stage for Mr. Basil Macdonald
Hastings’s fantastic play, ‘A Certain Liveliness,’ at
the St. Martin’s Theatre, London.”
The drama has progressed since when
Most stage cigars were made of wood;
The mummer of to-day would scoff
If handed smokes a trifle “off,”
Or asked to dine on bogus food
It is essential he should feel
That things upon the stage are real.
The champagne in the supper scene
No more is merely gingcr-pop,
The flowers are expensive blooms,
Of solid oak the drawing-rooms—■
Where will this realism stop ?
Some management may yet engage
Real actors to adorn the stage!
victoria.
HARRISON O.
WHOLESALE MURDER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The thrust wag straight.
He drops with scarce a sigh.
A scream, a woman’s cry
Reverberate,
And shrilly swell
Throughout the room. His wife
Springs at me. Quick —the knife!
She dies as well!
Each week I kill a dozen mums and dads
And wade knee-deep in gore—in picture ads.
N.S.W.
BOB DEXTER.


PUBLIC APPRECIATION
of the Merits of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills.
At no time has the high
public esteem in which Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills
are held been more forcibly
demonstrated than during recent months.
For twenty-five years this remedy has
been on the Australian market, and to-
day there are thousands of people who
have been taking these pills during the
whole of that time and others for a
shorter period. In each case, however, their corrective
properties are equally realised, and it is not surprising that
v/hen the Influenza epidemic broke out the call for this
remedy exceeded all previous records. It was not claimed
that Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills would cure Influenza,
but they were recommended to the public as a medicine to
keep the system regular, which is the most important
precaution to be taken at all times. So intense has been the
demand for this remedy that during each of the past four
months over five million pills have been sold, or at the rate
of about a pill for every man, woman and child in the Commonwealth. The
wonderful character of this sale is further emphasised when it is known
that no salesmen were employed whatsoever. Orders came through the
mail, or over the telegraph and telephone wires, and were in response to
the genuine demands of the trade. Could there be any finer illustration
of popularity than this ? Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills stand purely on
their merits as an effective remedy for all complaints arising from a
disordered digestion, and they are to-day more extensively used by all
classes of the community than any other remedy sold in Australia.


With the influenza epidemic menacing the
public health it is necessary to keep fit and
well. A judicious use of King George IV.,
the topnotch Scotch whisky, is a wise pre-
caution. — Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
LEWIS&WI-lITTY
E
f\NE& SYDNEY.
I
m
m
sSP
jgjj
o
£
SO
a
I
*
WA
YT.
er
o
a
W////////Z
I
<
I
'////////////s
'///:'////;
I
<
f
a
y ' y/ YA
W/A
or
i
2
o
1
I
O
Xi
Wt
/"////
-i
c>
I
ys/s/sssss*
j>« TON
Say
Brmds
Gjj i cmcl
looK for
this label
■ You 11
be pleased
with the
result
ESI
SPORTING
NOTIONS
DON'T TINKER
LET
MICK SIMMONS
DO THE JOB
PROPERLY
Jumping is a feature of the A.J.C. Winter
Meeting, but, as usual, it was below the Vie. and
S. Aus. class on Saturday. A lot of money went on
Mountwood for the First Hurdle Race, and the Vic.
horseman McGee looked like winning with him up
to the last jump. There, however, Burrabogi took
charge. Plymouth jumped like a perfect hunter;
and almost as slowly.
The Onslows have a shapely little filly in Margalo,
and she is evidently a racehorse by the way she
finished in the Novice Handicap. The imported
Perseus, who beat her, won at 20 to one.
In Vic., Jack Rice (12st. 121 b.) would have been
an “odds-on” chance for the First Steeplefchase; but
N. S. Wales dislikes to see its money in the air.
Moon never had to use his whip during the race—he
is abstemious with it always—and the veteran ’chaser
won as he liked from Kenerette (lOst. 41b.). Coo-
minya was third, and Glenquinn, Compromise and
Lerwick finished in their own time.
The combination of Wood and Willie Rino was
fatally attractive to backers in the First Nursery.
But the Newcastle squib, Cayley, snatched the race
from Arran and Sweet Rosaleen, a nice filly who is
sure to win soon.
Forturatus look the June Stakes from Willie
Ploma; Goorianawa and Lucky Dip dead-heating for
third place. Amberdown, the prad that fell and
then got up and won in Brisbane, was the punters’
choice. He finished last, or thereabouts. A miser-
able exhibition was also given by Hem, who fluked
the last Doncaster.
In the Ellesmere Handicap the bulk of the money
went on the disappointing Woorava, who looked like
making a race of it at the top of the
straight, but as usual “chucked it.” Franco
went away like a winner, but faded right
out in the last quarter-mile. Varico and Mucilage
fought out a stirring finish, the Varco horse winning
by half a length.
The ex-Picnic gelding, Montauk, who ran rottenly
on Saturday, won the Second Hurdle somewhat
easily from Algous, Burrabogi being three lengths
away third. Moon was vociferously hooted, but
ho appeared unmoved; and the stewards w’ere like-
wise.
Booth gets hold of some good sprinters, and he
invariably serves them up done to a turn. Volpi,
who won the Flying, was a case in point. He never
caused his numerous followers any uneasiness. W.
Lillyman (fifth, with McLachlan, on the list of win-
ning jockeys) is coming into the limelight again.
He does more riding than anyone else in and around
Sydney, and is always in tip-top form physically.
Coominya ran away with the Second Steeplechase,
beating Plymouth by 30 lengths. Greyflyer fell,
done, at the fence opposite Oxenham’s, and Glen-
quinn, the favorite, tailed home last.
Franco looked a good thing for the Exeter Handi-
cap, but he died away at the finish, and Bracken
had his work cut out to squeeze him into a place.
Lothian, the classy-looking Kenilworth horse, won
smartly from Ard-na-ree.
* ■* * •
Grand Parade, who won the Derby last
week, is by Orby, who won the same race 12 years
ago. Although beaten only once last year, he
started at 33 to one. The Panther, one of the
hottest favorites in the history of the race, ran
nowhere.
An atmosphere of boodle enveloped this year’s
English Derby—in fact, it does most Derbies. The
winner was bred by Boss Crokei, tiie Tammany ring-
man, and his owner is the Cardiff shipowner who
was last year raised to the pftifiteerage under the
title of Lord Gainly—no, Glanely. Major Astor (of
the U.S. family) was responsible for the second, and
the third horse, Paper Money (by Greenback),
carried the colors of Sir Walter’ Gilbey, who helped
to win the war by distilling rivers of alcoholic
spirit.
Jeddah, winner of the great race in 1898, started,
according to many authorities, at 100 to one. How-
ever, it was a job to get even Grand Parade’s price
about him on the day of the race. The Prince of
W'ales (afterwards Edward VII.), who was then
very hard up, had been let into the good thing, and
his commission affected the price. Hermit, who
won at 66 to one in 1867, caused more money to
change hands and ruined more prominent people
than any outsider on record.
* * * *
Bayuda, the Bayardo filly from Taylor’s
Manton stables, won the English Oaks last week.
She had previously beaten Hose way and Lord Rose-
bery’s beautifully-bred Mapledurham (who finished
second and third respectively on this occasion) in
the Chevely Park Stakes.
A big field of useful performers started
in the Steeple at Flemington on Saturday, lolaus
(lOst. 51b.) was heavily backed, but couldn’t run
into a place. Sir Prim (list. 31b.) jumping fault-
lessly led into the straight and won by a couple of
lengths from Sir Aisne (lOst. 81b.) and McAlpin.
Sir Prim’s win was a surprise. Although the Sir
Tristram gelding had won both his two previous races
over the big timber he went out at 14 to one, the
idea being that he couldn’t carry the weight. Yet he
finished brilliantly, and looked good for longer than
164 furlongs. Sir Prim is an interesting study as
a jumper. Over hurdles he proved a failure for
years, after makin- a promising start in Bill Ander-
son’s colors. His schooling began when he was a
youngster, so it couldn't have been the leaping that
tired him what time he used to perform like a
squib. Possibly he found the slower pace over the
big timber to his liking, whilst the difference in the
obstacles didn’t worry him. Anyhow, as a ’chaser
he has made good, and it is possible that he is up
to National form.
The 20-to-one shot, Snub, beat the favorite
Telccles a short head in the Sandringham Handicap ;
and another rank outsider —Percolator —just downed
Froth and Bubble in the Welter.
Snub was naturally a hot thing for the Birth-
day Handicap on Monday, and he justified himself
by winning from the six furlongs post onwards.
Lumut won the Steeple, in which lolaus fell and
Sir Prim didn’t start. F. G. Farr’s speedy Katwyk
won the Hurdles.
* * * *
Lordaere won the thousand pound race on
the last day of the Q.T.C. Meeting. Time was
when N. S. Wales could send second-raters to Bris-
bane and gather in all the plums; but nowadays it
takes a fairly good horse to win there —better, any-
how, than Lingle, Greg or The Christian Brother.
* * * *
Bullock had two wins and Bobby Lewis
a first and second at the Adelaide Birthday
Cup Meeting on Saturday, and the Welkin was
responsible for siring the winners of two sprint
races.
The Carbine horse, Pistol, increased his tally as
a winning sire at this meeting by two firsts and a
second (Telcgong, Alacrity and Pistolarie). It
has hitherto been the custom to perpetuate the
Musket strain by naming the descendants to read
like a Krupp’s catalogue. The idiotic convention
is dying out, seemingly, just as a whole new vocab-
ulary of death-dealing weapons has come on the
market.
The big race of the day, the Birthday Cup (li
miles), looked like a fight at the finish between
Amantes and Dependence. And then the unsup-
ported Alacrity came like a scared devil, almost
on the post, and won by a length in the record
time (for S. Aus.) of 2min. 32Jsee.
Canteen, the handsome grey for whom Rupert
Clarke gave a long figure and subsequently let go
at a reduction, sired the winner of the Dulwich
Hurdle on Monday.
Annexit, who scored the Electric Welter (1 mile),
takes after his idolised sire, Trafalgar, in appearance
somewhat. He was unfancied, but won all the
way.
* * * *
N.S.W.-Maoriland Rugby League revival
at Sydney on Saturday drew a vast “gate” ; it was
over 47,000 in dimensions. There was nothing
electrical about the match, and such sparkle as
there was in the earlv stages was inserted by N.S.W.
However, after half-time the burly M.L. forwards
served up the short passes so long a feature with
All Black teams and things grew more open. In
the scrums the Blacks pushed the Blurs at will;
but the fine form of the Blue backs availed and
N.S.W. led at half-time by 13-2.
In the second half the hefty Black forwards altered
their tactics and resorted to screwing and breaking
up the scrum, fine dribbling and systematic rushing
of the ball along the “blind side.” The change
rattled N.S.W. forwards badly and Smashed the
defence of the backs. In fact, M.L. was within a
wink of victory when full-time sounded with the
scores at 23-18.
The bulk of the scoring fell to one player on each
side. For N. S. Wales Harold Horder scored three
tides and kicked three goals—ls points out of the
Ride’s 23. In attack he was brilliant and he badly
fooled the opposing three-quarters; but in defence
he showed the weakness of indecision. K. Ifwerson,
the symmetrical M.L. three-quarter, kicked five goals
- —lO points out of 18 scored by the side. It took
three or four kicks for him to gauge the strength
of the ground and ball; but after that his right
boot had an accuracy which was exceptional, especi-
ally from an angle near the touch-line. Ifwerson
is one of the lightest players in the XIII, turning
the scale at list. He crossed to Australia with
the League team in 1913; played v. England in
1914 ; and for Auckland in inter-provincial matches
ill 1913, ’l4 and ’lB. In the match v. Auckland
before the team sailed he scored 19 points (three
tries and four goals) out of the 25 for the side.
M.L. brought out the giant forward of the day
in Henry Tancred, aged 22, height 6ft. 2in., weight
15 stone. He played a fine, clean game, and when
on the move was as hard to stop as a railway-
engine.
Captains Halloway (N.S.W.) and Mitchell (M.L.)
were both absent at the kick-off on Monday.
However, Mitchell emerged from the O.C.S. when
Laing was knocked, and did rather better than on
Saturday. In any open play he worked like a horse.
Horder was below his usual form. Or he may have
appeared so, owing to the fact that he had two
men detailed to go after his scalp. Still, his pace
stood to him throughout, and the opposition failed
ludicrously to nail him. Conaghan shaped well for
the home team, but he took the ball faultily at
times, and he lacks pace. Ray Norman (acting-
captain) was another who sparkled less than usual,
though his tackling was as deadly as ever. Burge
"Was about the best forward on the ground. Besides
.handling the ball well, he has a fair turn of speed,
and a deadly tackle. Cubitt was brilliant, and for
his errors others were mostly to blame. Johnston
ably filled Halloway’s place. He was on the ball
like a flash when it was heeled back, and got it out
to his three-quarters in record time. The trouble
was that so little use was made of his efforts. David-
son exploited the M.L. jumping game, invented by
Asher, and improved on by “Dally” Messenger. On
one occasion he jumped clean over Blair. ltukutai,
the M.L. forward, is almost as fast as he is hefty,
and he several times overhauled N. S. Wales’s speedy
’quarters.
The goal-kicking was poor. Neither Oxford nor
Horder shone, and Ifwerson didn’t land the ball over
the bar once for M.L. The easier the goal the worse
he seems to kick. Actually M.L. was licked bv 20
points to nine. Had Ifwerson kicked a childishly
easy goal which he missed the M.L. score would have
been proportionately increased; and had McCarthy
not been outed N.S.W.’s score would have been
vastly diminished—the M.L. back was a wonder
while he lasted. Fate treated the Islanders harshly,
on the whole.
Soccer football in Sydney on Saturday
suffered from a strike of umpires. However, “loyal-
ists” were secured by the Association, and the short
proceeded. Granville,
by beating Annandule
(2 —0), kept up its
unbeaten record and
brought up its list
of goals to 27 against
two scored by oppo-
nents. The Balmain
clubs—Fernleigh and
Caledonian —are next
on the list; the others
miles distant.
Harry C. Oak-
lej', whose job it is
to pour forth encom-
iums of the M.L.
Rugby League team
now touring Australia,
lias been connected
with this brand of
football since its birth
in the Shaky Isles. He
hails from Auckland,
where the game ha's its
stronghold. When not
talking about League
football he toils as a
Law accountant.
HARRY
OAKLEY,
Manager All
Blacks.
The most notable game of the Melbourne
League round was Souths v. Richmond on Saturday.
Richmond is the heavier team and in the first
quarter looked like winning. 1-rom then on Souths’
superior skill asserted itself, and they won 82 points
to G 2. ’Wood beat Melbourne by 116 to 55.
The royal George has fixed new conditions
for this year’s King’s Prize at Bisley. The shoot
will be with sinall-magazine Lee-Enfield rifles and
the ranges will not extend beyond 600 yards. The
idea is to give any soldier marksman a chance. The
lowering of the entrance fee from 80s. to 10s. will
also help. The Kolapore Cup conditions are to be
similar to those of 1914 ; but 10 shots will be fired
at each range, instead of seven as formerly, and the
two “sighters” will be cut out. (Groans.) The
Mackinnon Cup also loses its “sighters.” (Up-
roar.) The only comfort the leisurely range target-
punchers have is that they will still have their long
rifles, slings and apertures in the Kolapore and Mac-
kinnon, and in the Empire match which follows a
week later. It is Australia’s turn to have the
Empire; but the Commonwealth Council of Rifle
Associations has been asked to let England have it
this time.
The A.I.F. cricket team in England
defeated an M.C.C. eleven last week by 10 wickets.
As “Plum” Warner remarked recently, “they are
probably stronger than most people imagine.”
Though why people should imagine the Anzacs are
anything but strong, in view of their consistently
good performances up to date, it is not easy to
understand.
* * * *
Rev. E. H. Sugden, at the unveiling of
the Harry Trott memorial in Melbourne last week,
put the Savior in a novel light. He referred to
Him as the “Greatest Sportsman,” and translated
the “Do unto others” injunction into “Give your
opponent a fair, sporting go.”
* * * *
Coursing appears to be dying in N. S.
Wales. A few weeks back the N.C.A. was congratu-
lating itself that it had 85 nominations for the
first Australasian Waterloo Cup. The nominators
paid up their forfeits, but on Friday last, the day on
which the nominators were supposed to supply the
names of the dog or dogs they intended running,
more than half of them re-nlgged. It seems there
is a pronounced dog-shortage locally. During last
week-end the N.C.A. committeemen were racing
about trying to get owners to lend their dogs to
nominators, and so fill up the stake. They finally
scraped together 48 runners. And yet the prize-
money secured by the cup winner is more than that
offered by most of the suburban horse racing clubs
for their biggest event.
Grand Voyage, who won the Glebe and
Club Handicaps' at Epping last Thursday, is probably
the best square-gaited trotter yet seen in X. S.
Wales. He was driven in both events by the Vic.
reinsmen P. D. Glasheen, and he travelled at a
2.18 gait to the mile despite the fact that the
track was at least three seconds slower than usual
owing to the rain. He never put a foot wrong, and
showy black entire comes from the bemioi.i
stud (Vic.).
* * * *
Fritz Holland, who, despite his bald head,
is an eager, forcing fighter, met the unspectacular
Fred Kay at Sydney Stadium on Saturday night.
Kay fought, as usual, on the retreat or bolt. He
has probably covered more ground in a backward
direction than any other boxer living. The ceremony
went the full 20 rounds, when the referee said it
was a draw. Holland, list. 101 b.; Kay, lOst. 101 b.
The bombardment of boxer “Ted” Wh-ting,
by his friends of the Melbourne “Oyster Mob” was
resumed last week. Their shooting appears to be
deteriorating; in six attempts they never hit him
once. He already wears the push equivalent of
three wound-stripes earned on domestic service.
Both Gordon Coghill (at present a
captain in the A.1.F.) and Harold Hardwick are
starting out as professional pugs. Neither of them
did brilliantly here, after dropping their amateur
status, and both are five or six years older. Hard-
wick is to box Towneley, an English heavy, as a
preliminary to the Goddard-Beckett fight next week.
* * * *■
In the County of Cumberland singles
tennis championship at Sydney last week Jim O.
Anderson defeated Eric Pockley and North in three
straight sets ; and in the filial on Monday he smoth-
ered IT. M. Marsh (6 —2, 6 —o, 6 —3). In the three
matches lie won nine sets to nil, and scored 54
games to 10. The long-armed N. S. Wales player
is far the likeliest Ma State player to help Aus-
tralia in the Davis Cup event.
* * *
N.S.W. Cricket Association’s decision to
reduce next season’s first-grade premiership to a
dozen clubs will, amongst other advantages, obliter-
ate the “bye.” The voting for the reduction was
15 to nine. Pre-war residential qualifications will
be restored after the Association decides on the
boundaries of clubdom. The notion at the back
of it all is to put vitality into the game —a quality
which it has;, lacked noticeably of recent years.
R. R. Dawbarn has died in Rockhampton
(Q.). He was the oldest surviving member of the
now extinct Sydney Hunt Club, and belonged to
the far-back period when hounds met at Eastwood
House under the mastership of the proprietor. He
had latterly been sec. of the Rockhampton Jockev
dub. #
Sydney Uni. (Rugby Union) nearly fell
in on Saturday through under-estimating East’s,
who have a couple of speedy quarters in the Carrs.
However, they pulled themselves together sufficiently
towards the end to snatch victory by one point,
Sheppard scoring his second try after a spectacular
sprint, and Louden adding the necessary two points.
N.S.W. rink championship semi-finals
occurred in Sydney on Saturday. Harry Moses
(Ashfleld) v. Leitch (Redfern) was a ding-dong
game. At one time the board showed 17 —17, but,
at four ends to go, Moses’s rink notched six, and
drew away to win by 25—19. In the other match
Thorne (Victoria Park) out-played More}' (Parra-
matta) by. 30 —21, although the latter led bv
20—18 during the game. Morey skipped the win-
ning rink last year. The final' is listed for next
Saturday.
* * * *
“J.”: We were discussing the ethics of
pony-racing, when the old hand ranged along.
After listening carefully for about five minutes he
finished the argument with this parting shot: “Well,
I’ve seen a lot of things in my time and I’ve come
to this conclusion —pony-racin’ is worse than dorg-
racin’, and dorg-racin’ is the essence of rascalitv.”
* * * *
The C.S.R. has just bought 22 of the
Yanco-bred mules for its Fiji plantations. They
are a magnificent lot, some close on 17 hands, and
they went at £3O apiece. AVith horses at the
low price they are now this is too dear for farmers.
“Yeronga”: On the way dotvn the coast
the Melbourne and the six destroyers anchored at
Brisbane long enough for the tug-o’-war team from
the Melbourne to lick, in turn, a picked crew from
the combined destroyers, one from the firemen and
stokers of the cruiser, one from the Returned Sol-
diers, and then be taken on and held for a consider-
able time by the City Council and the post the
Council’s end had been hitched to.
* * * *
Aeroplaning has moved fast. Only as
long ago as 1914 Harry Hawker, then a passenger
from Australia to London on the Mooltan, travelling
with the Australian rifle team for Bisley, told the
Ceylon Independent that “an aeroplane trip across
the Atlantic might be possible if one were to spend
£40,000 on a machine big enough to carry fuel for
the whole journey. But the expenditure would not
be justified.”
* # * *
“Trochas”: Another instance of how
white men fade away in the tropics. On Easter
Monday a tug-o’-war team of 10 men was raised
amongst the civilians of Thursday Island to meet a
team from the garrison. The tug lasted 17min.
16sec. Miserable weaklings!
THE LATEST SPORT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Freeman, the Sonoma hunger-striker, was found
to have a large hoard of food in his luggage. The
doctors agreed that his condition was not that of
a man who had been abstaining from food for several
days.— News item.
When the world is dull and cheerless,
And you have the hump or spike;
When you lack the public notice
You would naturally like,
It’s a profitable practice
To declare a hunger-strike.
Overflowing “gates’’ are certain,
And the more Death seems to loom
So much more will people hasten
To observe your state of gloom ;
For a certain type of person
Loves to hang around a tomb.
Only kid them that the contest
Is The Reaper v. Yourself,
And that all is square and dinkum,
You may place upon the shelf
Ev’ry care about the future;
They are yours—heart, soul and pelf.
Damfool sheets will advertise you
As a martyr to your Cause
(You, of course, will have to find one) ;
They will howl for altered laws—
lfowl for anything to save you
From the graveyard’s yawning jaws.
All you need to do is sit there
With your food stowed out of sight,
Looking pale and starved and dogged
For as long as it is light,
Taking comfort from the knowledge
That you’ll eat your fill at night.
N.S;W.
10-2-4.


Scientific Exercise Preserves
Good Health!
Exercise is just as necessary for the correct, nourishment
of the body as food. You cannot get the full benefit of
the food you eat unless your stomach is able to thoroughly
assimilate it.
Now, the digestive tract is muscular, but the habits of
your every-day life do NOT exercise those muscles. Con-
sequently they gradually become more flabby and less able
to perform their work. And when your digestion is
impaired your whole system is thrown out of gear.
Unless you secure relief vou will be a chronic sufferer.
Medicine merely removes the effect. Scientific Exercise
removes the CAUSE —ensures permanent relief.
THE BAKER POSTAL COURSE OF HEALTH EXERCISES
go right to the spot. Each movement has a direct motive,
and eacli is a Dart of a combined series of exercises that
will develop all the internal musqles of your body—the
muscles which you are likely to overlook just because you
can’t see them.
Remember the Heart, Lungs, Stomach, Intestines are mus-
cular. And they are the organs which govern your life.
Now you realise how vitally necessary it is for you to keep
them tuned up, ready to ward off any undue strain, ready
to repel sickness ; always at your service to ensure you
good health.
Write to-day for mv interesting booklet, entitled
“HEALTH AND STRENGTH FROM SELF-CULTURE,”
which tells all about my methods, fees, etc. I should like
to send you a copy. Just write your name and address
across this advertisement and send it to me, with three
penny stamps for postage. I will know what you mean.
If you prefer personal instruction at my Institute, I sug-
gest you call and have a chat with me about your particular
requirements. £
REG. L( snowy )BAKER,
“The All-round
Champion Athlete
1 of Australia,”
47 MUNICIPAL BUILDINGS, 82a OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY.
tegi
mm
m
BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO.LTD.
AU STATES U HEW ZEALAND.
Is Your Dog Ready?
Training: Now in Full Swing,
TONIC AND CONDITION BALLS
Purify the blood, prevent worms, produce
first-rate condition for coursing.
Price 2/6 per box.
STIMULATOR FOR RACING HOUNDS.
For external use during coursing. Alleviates
stiffness and fatigue. Price 3/8 per bottle.
Booklet, “HINTS TO DOG OWNERS,”
Price 6(1. Post Free.
R. W. BCDDOME (Si CO.,
Dog Medicine Specialists,
254 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
Obtainable also from
JOHN BRUSH PTY. LTD., SYDNEY;
WALTHER & STEVENSON, 393 C-eorge St , SYDNEY
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOR
MINING, MILLING, etc.
INCLUDING
STEAH ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL BE POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO
THE SECRETARY, THE GENERAL MANAGER, THE SECRETARY,
Box 229 0.P.0., MOUNT MORGAN, Box 220 G.P.0.,
MELBOURNE. QUEENSLAND. SYDNEY.
3®
ora
I
Blazing the
Aerial Trail.
3000 Miles through the
Great Unknown on the
Indian Motocycle
Mounted on four Standard Indian Side-car Outfits, the Aerial Mail
Route Expedition has completed an unparalleled trip—from
Sydney, N.S.W., to Burketown, on the Gulf of Carpentaria—over
unexplored, unknown country!
Catalogue with pleasure.
MELBOURNE: Rhodes Motor-Cycle
Co. Fty., Ltd., 109-113 Russell Street.
SYDNEY: Milledge Bros., Ltd., 156
Castlereagh Street.
BRISBANE: Canada Cycle and Motor
Agency, Ltd., Adelaide and Creek
Streets.
ADELAIDE: Eyes & Crowle Ltd., 75-79
Pirie Street.
LAUNCESTON: John King & Sons,
Ltd., Charles Street.
PERTH: Armstrong Cycle & Motor
Agency, Hay Street.
A Good Cigar at a Moderate Price—
“CAROLA.”
MILD, BURNS FREELY, FINE AROMA.
SAMPLE BOXES POST FREE.
11/6 Box of 25. 22/6 Box of 50.
A Really Pure and Healthy
FULL-SIZE VIRGINIAN LEAF CIGARETTE--
“SATIN FINISH.”
5/6 Box of 100. 2/9 Box of 50.
POST FREE.
A. A. MARKS, 376 George St., Sydney,
Cigar and Tobacco Importer. BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE CITY.
rvw
rrr,
sm&
K-:m%
&F&i
m:
M
WkmM
tP'M
‘•v', r *P>;-i>
mp&
■teui
•xm*
m
H :
8
nw
il§t§
isiijsli
nl
*
MS&
P*
*1
.frats
mWm
. -
»sk&3
a»£
i$M?!
n&?££3£sra3&
*N§&
m.
vti9
;nvr>
KYNOCH
AMMUNITION
“PRIM AX” and “BOX AX”
CARTRIDGES—KYNOCH made
and loaded. Both possess excellent shoot-
ing qualities, “PRIMAX” being the
highest-grade cartridge in a 2 J-inch case
sold on the Australasian market, while
“BONAX” enjoys the largest sale of
any individual cartridge in the world.
Always spec-ifyKYNOCH Ammunition
when ordering from jour dealer.
British-made
Throughout.
Wholesale only—Scottish House, 90 William Street, Melbourrie.
Kynoch House, 277 Clarence Street, Sydney.
“Warrigal” Gap Bed Lathe
with Hollow Spindle.
w
EMBODIES ESSENTIAL QUALITIES—
ACCURACY, RIGIDITY, STRENGTH.
9f" Centre. 10'Bed.
SWINGS 34 INCHES IN GAP.
HOLLOW SPINDLE 2£ INCHES DIAMETER.
DELIVERY FROM STOCK. Inspection Invited.
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.
490-492 Kent Street, SYDNEY.


FARMER’S EXHIBIT
Genuine Hand-made Laces
LACE DEPARTMENT, GROUND FLOOR.
ONE of the finest collections of rare Hand-made Lace that has ever come to
Sydney is to be seen at Farmer's to-day. It is considered a most fortunate
possession, for such laces are difficult to procure. Many of them are said to be
half a century or more old; representing a monument to plodding patience and pains-
taking care. So fine are some of the netted backgrounds that you would alipost
imagine the design had been built upon a cobweb. Others are of the coarser type,
and very handsome. The Laces have the tint of age—a soft ivory—and the designs
breathe out the distinct atmosphere of an age-long past. Not a single false stitch
in the whole fabric, and every design followed out with an accuracy that is little
short of miraculous; yet, withal, they possess individuality. Lovers of rare Hand-made
Laces have a great treat in store. The Lace is priced by Farmer’s at figures by ne
means costly. The showing includes:—
REAL BRUSSELS LACES, inde-
scribably fine, of an intricacv of design
that shows no flaw. Would greatly en-
hance the appearance of a soft velvet or
black silk gown, as well as evening frocks
of soft net or silk.
REAL DUCHESSE LACES. These
have a very fine net background with
striking broad design in Duchesse pattern.
REAL BRUGES LACES are dis-
tinguished by their bolder pattern and
slightly coarser fibre. Though decorative
for gowns, it is suggested that they find
their best use in ornamenting linens.
REAL HONITON LACE in remark-
ably fine, broad effects; should look
extremely handsome used on rich silk
fabrics or on velvet gowns.
FARMER’S,
Pitt, Market and George Streets,
We Pay Carriage.
SYDNEY.
Sydney's Premier
Private Hotel
"Ritz”
Cremorne,
On the Harbor Front.
Delightful 8 minutes’ Ferry Trip
from Circular Quay.
Electric Light and Lifts and all
conveniences usually associated with
First-class Hotels.
Steamers every few minutes all day
and night.
Tariff, from 10/6 per day, and
from £3/3/- per week.
VANITY FAIR
SILK GLOVES
'T'HE indomitable English spirit never shone
T „ Lr -t, l ' l v, riol [ more valiantly than when doughty
■JOHIs BUNYAN, during his long imprisonment of
t'- years, wrote that immortal allegory, “Pilgrim’s
Progress.” Therein the quaint picture of VANITY
FAIR was conceived, to be revived 200 vears later
in vivid and modern colors by THACKERAY in
his charming story.
But THACKERAY did not dream that in the year
1919, in a land where in JOHN BIJNYAN’S dav the
I llgrim Fathers were finding refuge, VANITY FAIR
would again become famous through the innocent
enchantment of the
GLOVE OF SILK
“\ ANITY FAIR” is the glove that the woman of
taste and refinement must naturallv select. Even-
pair carries the maker’s guarantee, and costs no
more than gloves sold without a guarantee.
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warner's
Rust Proof
Corsets
Lieut.-Colonel Knox paid the penalty last
week of having told tales of matrimonial
indiscretions in London. The dashing mili-
taire seems to have been garrulous where
the average civilian husband is dumb. He
talked gratuitously, according to Mrs.
Knox’s statement in court, and when she
said she would not live with him again he
cheerfully replied, “Oh, yes, you will! You
will get over it!” But the lady could afford
to sever the bond without applying for main-
tenance, and a decree nisi was granted.
Mrs. Knox has been an interesting figure
in sassiety since she was a toddler. She
was the Kathleen Purves Macplierson whose
elderly father left whips of money in trust
for her. Mamma married again, and then
she died, leaving Kathleen with a half-sister
in charge of step-father Barton. After
which the lawyers got to work on the ques-
tion of who should control the little heiress
and the hundreds a year granted for her
education and bringing up. The fight for
possession was between James Purves, the
barrister, and step-father Barton, Mr. Purves
claiming the privilege on the ground of
blood relationship, and on the allegation that
Mr. Barton was an unfit person to be a
guardian of his dead wife’s child, because he
was young and sprightly and wore his pants
turned up at the ankles. The Purves fac-
tion went so far as to kidnap little Kathleen
when she was being walked abroad. It was
an astounding bluff, this try to get hold of
Kathleen for keeps; but the court, remark-
ing that Mr. Barton’s little daughter was
the nearest relative and natural playmate of
the orphan heiress, ordered her restoration
to step-father. In her petition for divorce
last week she had no other witness than the
half-sister who was mentioned in that long
suit of long ago.
The Fergusons’ Friday afternoon party
was a joyous affair though the briefest on
record, the band blowing Gorsave at 4.30.
Their Exes. a,nd the Jellicoe pair pump-
handled the incoming stream of citizens as
if they enjoyed it. Captain Conant dashed
across from the State establishment in his
best gold-lace' trimmings to give the Federal
gentlielp a hand. Lady Helen was in navy
blue without a hat. Watching the Ferguson
pair from behind a tree, a naval visitor
found out why they are so popular. They
don’t allow the special reserve to monopolise
them to the exclusion of plain guests. Harry
Lauder arrived wearing his best advertising
kilt. The Jellicoes made room for the
comedian and his wife in the plush seats.
The Royal Marine Band from the New
Zealand played so well in the.ballroom that
music-lovers hurried back from afternoon tea
for the later selections.
The presence of the Jellicoes at Fleming-
ton on Saturday set up a mild rage for
spats and belltoppers. The noble Viscount’s
glittering lid signalled that every citizen
should do his duty, and several outside the
vice-regal enclosure answered to the best
ability of their hatters. Donald Mackinnon,
Agar Wynne, E, L. Baillieu and others were
all expertly tailored and wore extempore
heliographs aloft, but were outed for the
beauty prize by the magnificent Edmund
Jowett, M.P. From his irreproachable
spats to his towering nail-can he had been
laundered and creased for the Duke’s part
in a Family Herald serial. G.-G. Munro-
Ferguson clung to his pale-grey tile —a des-
perate _ dissenter from the prevailing mode.
Also his old grey beaufort suit made another
appearance. His good Lady lorgnetted pass-
ing events, with all the second-bests trying
to look like the Firsts. It was not the" day
for clothes, however, and even Lady Jellicoe
beamed from a plain navy tailor-made with
half a Polar bear around her neck. De-
pressed blues and browns were frequent.
But the grey skies could not keep the rain-
bow squad inactive. A smart young actress
was the cynosure of all ears with a deafen-
ing get-up in which almost an acre of
leopard-skin appeared. Another fashion-
able frocker in tall bronze boots could have
been mistaken for the representative of a
curry powder at a poster ball.
Fielders had their first glimpse of Jellicoe
at Flemington on Saturday, and all declared
that in suitable mufti he could hang a bag
about .his neck and pass easily as Jellicohen,
though, as a matter of fact, he hasn’t
Hebrew blood or any regard for Hebrew
failings. He is equally indifferent to dia-
monds and horse-racing, and doesn’t intend
to be a pawnbroker when he retires. With
all the threat of his frosty future, he retains
the heart and legs of a boy. He is still
a keen waltzer, and probably a Jazzer when
his more prosaic spouse is tucked in bed.
Moreover, he is “perfectly dippy” on skat-
ing. During his stay in Melbourne he kept
his muscles supple with a turn on the ice at
t he Glaciarium.
The vice-regal reception the other night
was quite a sporty affair, the official ice
being cracked by an impromptu two-step, of
which the elders partook. The Argus
Mackinnon dame, partnered by her husband,
showed herself as fleet of foot as any flap-
per. Certain young things from Toorak
defied official etiquette by encoring the
dances as if the function was a suburban
hop. The Jellicoe pair stood alongside the
G.-G. and Lady Helen on the dais, and the
less cocksure guests threw in a couple of
extra curtseys for the visitors.
Lady Helen, heavily pearled and diamonded,
was draped elegantly in yellow brocaded satin
and gold embroidered net. The Jellicoe lady
smiled in white silk, brocaded with gold and
followed by a square train lined with old-
gold satin. The family diamonds flashed
round her neck and twinkled overhead.
The sensation of the evening was a square-
cut matron in grey. Her skirt just hit the
knees in fro.it and missed them at the back.
A panel was slung from the side of the waist-
belt and trailed along the floor. ’ A pink
rose over one ear was the final touch. These
clipper rigs are only for the young and
beautiful, and even then the wearer’s legs
and deportment should be audited by a
ballet mistress before a permit is issued.
The supper in the buffet and dining parlor
was of the pre-war champagne-and-chieken
order. Quite a lot of khaki set off the pre-
vailing naval blue and gold. Dr. Reggie
Weigall, the Automobile Club President,
brought his youngest daughter Helen. It
was her first dance and she had no com-
plaints to make. Captain Hyde’s beautiful
young bride (she was an English war-
widow) trailed white and gold draperies.
Mrs. Norton Grimwade looked handsome in
gold and magenta georgette, with a bro-
caded train shot with many colors.
Our best-dresser, Mrs. George Chirnside,
is due this week with daughter Audrey and
son-in-law Major Harold Pape, of the Tanks.
Mrs. George’s nephew, young Captain Ernest
Clienery, who did good work on the Italian
and French fronts, is another of the family
group. Widowed Mrs. Dick Casey, also
homeward bound, will be seen through a veil
of mourning. Two soldier-sons are with
her, Dick and Lieut. Dermot. Captain
Tommy Grantham is on the same ship. His
handsome wife (once Dorothy McCaughey)
has a cosy flat with a young Grantham run-
ning round it waiting to welcome dad.
Brig.-General 11.
YV. Grimwade is
now on his way
home after three and
a half years’ service
in France. Always
an enthusiastic artil-
lerist, he was ready
to march when the
grey waves began to
break over Belgium.
But the Government
needed him in Mel-
bourne as embarka-
tion officer, and it
was not until the
end of 1915 that he
was allowed his first
whiff of high explo-
sive. He went away
as Lieut.-C 010 n e 1
and was soon scoring in the field. He now
holds as high an artillery post as the Aus-
tralian army can give. It is the proper
reward for his long and ardent apprentice-
ship. For 25 years he never missed an
Easter manoeuvre with the guns.
Two breaks occurred during May in the
domestic circle of Frederick Bruford, Vie.
Auditor-General for many years. One was
the death of Mrs. Bruford; the other the
marriage of daughter Margery to Victor
Carr. Father, W. P. Carr, has long been a
prop of the commercial cosmos of Geelong.
To the delight of his fellow-grads., young
R. G. Menzies, who mopped up several
prizes at Melbourne Uni. and went out as
Master of Laws to earn a living, is making
headway. In several cases he appeared as
junior to arrived men, but last week he was
on his own, and did so well that Duffy, J.,
went out of his way to compliment him.
The barrister’s dad (Irvine’s successor as
member for Lowan in the Vic. Assembly)
was in court, and if it had been in order he
would have asked all hands to adjourn for
five minutes for a refresher.
Joan Mavis Lazarus, who was admitted as
a barrister and solicitor last week in the
Full Court, is a daughter of Mark Lazarus,
who has had a Chancery-lane practice for
many years. Mark is one of the oldest
Parliamentary Agents entitled to appear
before Parliamentary select committees.
Presumably Joan, who is rather fascinating,
will desire to follow in dad’s footsteps. In
that case won’t the committee room be full
when she examines witnesses and puts the
case for the sitting member or the other can-
didate who seeks to oust the sitting member !
Melbourne Club is to the fore again,
though it is not quite sure whether it ought
to be glad or sorry. Donald Mackinnon, its
new president, has joined Lawson’s team as
twelfth man. He will be an honorary Min-
ister (absolutely without pay), and will help
his fellow Melbourne Club committeeman,
Frank Clarke, run the Lands Department.
Unobtrusive manager Speedie, of Menzies,
has slipped off for a long holiday—the first
for 30 years. He will make a tour round
the world.
With a pang old politicians and old
friends learned that Lady O’Loghlen died
on June 7 at St. Ives, South Yarra. She
was 72, and had survived her baronet 14
years. Sir Bryan was one of the makers of
Vic. political history. He was Attorney-
General under Berry in the stormy period of
IS7B-80, was head of the “Peace. Progress
and Prosperity” Government (ISBI-83), and
was Attorney-General under Patterson
(1893-4). Such was the fascination of
politics for the amiable baronet that he
threw up a Crown Prosecutorship to enter
Parliament and gave a Supreme Court
judgeship the go-by. Sir Michael, the son.
who succeeded to the baronetcy in 1905, is
Lieutenant for County Clare. Ireland, where
the O’Loghlens were somebodies in by-gone
times.
This is Lafayette’s
unprejudiced view of
Ernest Yidler, the
Melbourne publisher
who is always pop-
ping up on the Inky
Way. Two or three
years ago he gave
the old romance of
Paolo and Francesca
another run in five
acts of blank verse.
At present he is
penning a Maori
romance, “Iline-
moa,” for which the
one-armed soldier-
artist Napier Wal-
ler is doing the
illustrations. At the
same time he is
hurrying into the press for an American
publisher an anthology of Australasian
verse. Vidler has a nice taste in literature
and aft which he developed in London When
holding a post with Cassell’s. He talks
interestingly of Dickens, Watts, Wilde, Alma
Tadema and many others whom he encoun-
tered professionally during this juvenile
period.
We have had a succession of little jazz
parties—sometimes three in a night. On
Monday Mrs. Fairbairn hostessed a hop at
the Bretts’ South Yarra house. The Bridges
dame had a rival revel, and the Bowes
Kelly girls entertained the middies on Wed-
nesday evening. Joan liussell was to have
presided over a fox-trot gathering, but ’flu
disabled her. Brother Alec received the
guests for her instead of writing the thing
off the social calendar. Margot Mcßean
and Mrs. Leslie Stewart hostessed other
dance parties.
Mrs. Arthur, who is going off to meet her
soldier-husband, has let her South Yarra
house for six mouths to Captain Ainslie,
who on June 28 will exchange vows with
Claire Lempriere, the medical Lemprieres’
only daughter. The knot will be tied at
St. John’s. Toorak, and the wine poured
at Uncle Harry Payne’s.
The gas restrictions hit the wrong people.
Children and elderly people are robbed of
their hot dinners through the taps being
closed down in the daytime. Yet the light
can flare at jazz revels until 3 in the morn-
ing.
Adelaide has a look round:—
War-work is gradually closing down. This month
sees the Cheer-Up Society’s last appeal and the
Trench Comforts Shop has published its final balance-
sheet. The shop began modestly in Bowman's
Arcade in March, 1917, and did a brisk trade in
cakes and other home-grown produce on Fridays and
Saturday mornings. It overflowed from one shop
to three, and its takings sometimes topped £2OO
for the week-end. Its profits, amounting to nearly
£9OOO, have been cabled to the Comforts Fund in
England. Mrs. A. A. Lendon was the originator of
the scheme, and Mrs. George Braund has been lion,
secretary and treasurer.
Influenza has claimed Edith Williams, night-super-
intendent at the Adelaide Hospital—a post she had
held for 22 out of her 29 years’ service there. Few
nurses have won more affection.
The Birthday list pushed Langdon Bonython up
a step, and gave a knighthood to Dr. Joseph Verco,
one of the most beloved as well as the most brilliant
of our doctors.
Mr. Maughan, the retiring Director of Education,
was farewelled by the officials of his Department on
Thursday, with the Minister of Education as chief
speaker. So far no successor has been appointed.
The Cheer-Up Society scored a success with its
Victory Ball in the Town Hall on Thursday night,
and a dazzling array of debutantes danced solemnly
through the official sets of lancers. The late arrival
of the Australia meant that Commodore Dumaresq
and his officers could not be present, and the lighting
restrictions ordered lights out at 12 o’clock. How-
ever, it was past midnight before dancing stopped.
No chances were taken of mistakes in the official
lancers, for the debutantes and their partners were
rehearsed on Wednesday afternoon. A matrons’ ball
on the previous Friday, and a small dance at the
Barham Blacks to welcome Lieut. Auld on Monday,
were the chief items of the week’s dissipation.
Cyril Mee, an Adelaide boy, returned a few days
tgo after seven years in the United States and
come time with the Sammies in France. He brings
lack 3st. more beef, an American wife and child
ind a Yankee accent. The Y.M.C.A. claimed his
,ime in America and he now goes to Sydney to work
imongst the youth of that benighted city. Cyril is
an amiable young man who writes poetry, but that’s
the only thing known against him.
At recent receptions Commander Belt and C'ol.
Price Weir have been wearing a decoration seldom
seen in this State, and probably the last of them
has been handed out. This is the Order of St. Anne
of Russia, conferred by the late Czar —a gold and
red enamel star on a red and white ribbon.
In view of the number of military balls, recep-
tions, etc., in Adelaide lately, the authorities thought
it necessary to issue instructions about clothes.
Colonels were advised that full dress for the ball-
room consisted of leggings and spurs. But the
weather was too cold, and they nearly all wore
their uniforms too.
Blight Dorothy Murphy, one of the chicks
of the Secretary of Labor, has decided to re-
linquish pharmacy and independence for the
joys of a home of her own, which she Will
share with Stuart Leslie, who is associated
with dad in insurance claims adjustments.
Marjorie, youngest daughter of the Frank
Armytage pair, is wearing a half-hoop of
diamonds bought by Jim Bell, son of the
late squatter Bell, of Wagga (N.S.W.).
Captain Symons, V.C., is considering a
name for a baby daughter. Somebody sug-
gests Victoria Cross. Mrs. Symons is an
English girl who, amongst other gifts, is a
clever pastelist and has already done some
excellent portraits of her Australian friends.
She studied at Kensington.
’Flu lately carried off John Pierce Cahill,
of Hawthorn, whom Bulletin readers
knew as “J.P.C.” and “Dex.”
Sydney artist Gruner has been investigat-
ing this striking city. The genial McNally
has been showing him some of our best land-
scape, and making him known to picture-
loving citizens. Gruner has penetrated as
far inland as picturesque Malmsbury, of
which, if he is not careful, McNally will
yet find himself elected mayor.
The widow of Laurie Abrahams, inspired
by the sale of the Baldwin Spencer collec-
tion, has dec ded to sell the interesting lot
of pictures which her late husband gathered
during the years when he was a good and
genial friend to Australian art and artists.
Already there have been a lot of callers at
the Abrahams house in Park-street, South
Yarra, to renew acquaintance with Streeton.
David Davies. Conder, llilder, E. P. Fox.
McCubbin. Withers, Lambert. Mather and
others. The paintings will be shifted
presently to the Decoration Co. premises in
Collins-street, and come under the hammer on
the 20th. Coming under the hammer is a
mere figure of speech, of course. The auc-
tioneer never actually assaults a picture.
Art Gallery Director Bernard Hall is
preparing to hold an exhibition of his paint-
ings. This will make only his third show
since he came to Melbourne.
Death, overtaking Herbert Power at 84.
came before he could carry out his often-
expressed intention of moving out to Lily-
dale or some such handy rural spot. Power
had long found that his large holding at
loorak was “getting too valuable,” and in
recent years he sold a good deal of his acre-
age at prices never dreamed of when first he
settled in the most beautiful part of the old
S « u ■»!?■ even with these acres lopped
on, Moonga remained a charming property,
it has a fine garden; and its long-serving
custodian, YY illiam Deering, was on such
good terms with the old man that the latter
was allowed, under due supervision, to pluck
almost any blooms in reason.
YYmng Billy Coleman, who gave up scene-
painting for the Firm to help put the Hun in
his place, is back again, wearing the glad
duds of a lootenant. Billy is going to in-
spect some of his old haunts in Melbourne
and Sydney before resuming the peaceful life.
The use of the motor-cycle ambulance in
war has shown the way to its employment
m cavil life. During the past year the St.
John society, using a motor-cycle given by
the Dunlop co., has attended to 500 cases
in Melbourne by this means alone, apart
from the thousands carried by horse-ambu-
lance and four-wheeled motor.


DEWAR'S
k. WHISKY *
The Truth
about Temperance!
True temperance consists in the moderate and rational
use of the" world’s good things. The other day a
great observer of the ways of mankind told us, in
substance, that what is wanted is not so much the
abolition of places were drink is obtainable as some
protection to the user of stimulants, ensuring him
against such of them as are unwholesome.
In solving the problem, ‘‘How shall we order our lives ?”
no very deep reflection is necessary to arrive at one
conclusion. The world has an abundance of things
eatable and drinkable, some useful and beneficial to
mankind, others gravely injurious. Man is placed
amongst these things to exercise his discretion as to
what he shall use and what he shall avoid. Every
day, and perhaps every hour of the day, there is
added to his experience some lesson showing him
that true happiness is secured through the moderate
use of what is proved to be good.
Surely the discretion which Is part and parcel of every
reasonable being should be zealously exercised in
the matter of alcoholic stimulants. The subject
really requires no preaching to establish its pressing
importance upon human beings Even the very
slightest examination of the facts of the matter
should be all-sufficient.
DEWAR’S
The Whisky of Discretion.


CMRLES
HEIDSIECKS
Vintage 1906
CfflMfflt
HE PLUS DLTRfI
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Your Autumn Gown
Tailored by Shave
/
will enable you to
enjoy all the little re-
finements of style to-
gether with perfect
fit which mark the
Tailored garment,
without having to
undergo the trials of
many fittings.
The Shave system of
Model Fitting makes
this nossible.
Visitors to Melbourne
are invited to call.
We visit Sydney and
Adelaide twice, and Bris-
bane once, each year.
SHAVE
Ladies’ Tailors & Dressmakers,
CENTREWAY—MELBOURNE.
LADIES, PLEASE!
We do not want you to pass this advertise-
ment by. as it concerns every one of you.
The Dove Hosiery Stores, recently com-
menced, is the only store selling single pairs
of Hosiery and Gloves at wholesale prices.
We defy competition. Those who can, visit
our showroom ; others, mail us your require-
ments. We guarantee every satisfaction.
Here are a few values: —
HOSIERY.
“American Beauty.” Pure Silk Hose, full-
fashioned, seam, black or white, full-length
silk 13/6 pair.
“L 37” Heavy Pure Silk Hose, full-fashioned,
seam, will not ladder, sold in shops at 21/-
pair, black only. Our Price, 14/11 pair.
Pure Silk, Ankle Hose, all Colors, very
superior 7/6 pair.
“OUR” Ribbed Silk Ankle Hose, black or
white, equal to any 7/6 hose, wholesale
price 3/6 pair.
Black or White only.
The Dove Hosiery Stores
(Take Lift to 4th Floor),
Australian Buildings, 49 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
PAULINE et CIE
Announce their Autumn and Winter
Show of Millinery on & after March 11
Miss Gray will show Model Frocks, Coats and
Skirts, Blouses, etc., on and after March 25.
3rd Floor,Denison House Chambers
Telephone 10167. George Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Although over £750,000 was paid dur-
ing 1918 in War Claims alone, the
Cash Bonus Distributed for 3 918
exceeded.. £1,000,000
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about £1,700,000
Accumulated Funds exceed .. .. £39,000,000
Annual Income over .. .. .. £5,500,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H, W. APPERLY, General Manager.
A WOMAN’S
LETTER
DAVID
JONES
for
SMART
MILLINERY
With the ranks of the debutantes filled
to bursting-point with recruits from the
held-over balls of five years, no wonder it
was a distraught committee that clothed the
pillars of the Town Hall with sunflower and
poppy for the I’eace Ball; and, though
there’s not much peace on the earth, even a
Charity committee quailed at the thought of
candidates piling up any higher. So, after
all the stored-up combustion of the war-
period had flared at the final meetings, the
chrysalis of girlhood burst into the satin and
georgette butterfly; much youth wore its
first dress-suit; and the not-so-young and
the never-be-young-again trod upon each
other’s heels with the greatest geniality.
While the dove found a resting-place in
the bouquets of the young things, the enemy
strengthened his sinews of _ war by the
sale of the programme-pencils “made in
Austria.” All the crinkled paper in the
land had been transmuted into floral drap-
ings for the nudity of post and balustrade;
the light came mellowed through yellow
shades ; the music syncopated joyously. Only
the trained doves from the “Rackety Coo”
chorus were missing.
At half-past nine the only Lancers on
the programme were danced. Vice-regality
tangled and untangled itself with persis-
tency ; but the army nurses, with their little
capes and their khaki partners, also the
d<sbs., got through without a stain on their
reputation. And Lady Davidson, in her
rich brocade, with its shimmering tail, went
through the ordeal without a blemish, too.
Other dresses noticeable in the plaiting and
unplaiting of the ladies’ chain of the vice-
regal set were the grey ninon of the Cullen
dame, the black charmeuse of Mayoress
Richards, the Limerick lace and satin of
Commander Glossop’s wife, and the soft satin
of Mrs. Eliot. Miss Henderson, in a lace
frock, helped Captain Stanham to keep an
eye on the goings-on from the dais.
* Occasionally the sea of shuddering shoul-
ders and shuffling limbs flashed up a bril-
liant wave of color. Mrs. Albert Littlejohn
added an emerald green tunic to a dress of
gold tissue; Mrs. Kelso King supported gold
brocade with silver embroideries; the back
view of Mrs. Rolin’s oyster-grey charmeuse
revealed a panel of China blue; the two
Rolin girls, one in ivory and one in palest
blue, displayed the same panel effect; Mrs.
Edward Knox was in the shimmer of cash-
mere de soie; Mrs. Macneil Simpson and
Mrs. Street moved to the clash of jet trim-
mings ; Mrs, Pilcher’s dress was the bronze
of a new penny; Mrs. George Washington
Figman walked in beauty and cloth of silver,
with a hair-dressing reminiscent of the old-
fashioned bang ; the d’Apice lady, lonely till
her aide husband came off duty, was demure
in white ; trade commissioner-to-be Sheldon’s
two youngsters, Dossie and Millie, were one
in pink and one in black.
The Fuller party showed good looks and
good dressing. The lady dimmed the glar-
ing newness of the title in grey; daughter
Gwen wore miles of fringe on a frock that
in other places was pink. Doris Colley
shone like a shy primrose. Nellie Payne
had the softest of lavender, and lavender
and lilac was the wear of the elder Moreau
girl; town-clerkess Layton had a contrast
in pink and black ; and. the Curlewis chick
had been caught in a shower of rosebuds.
Mrs. George Earp had hundreds of sequins
on blue taffeta; Mrs. Kelly came from Kirri-
billi in silver tissue with coming-out sister
Dorothy Coffee. The King-Salter lady was
in palest lilac. The head of the Horderns
and his lady were there; and among the
pretty girls one noticed the Barton sisters.
The presentation of the debutantes was
the show-piece of the evening. The young
misses, clutching their bouquets and their
courage, were 60-odd strong. It was a
“young ladies’ seminary” on breaking-up
day. As each girl’s name was shouted, out
she stepped from the ranks, advanced to the
dais and swept two curtseys. Most of them
added an expansive curve of the arm that
seemed to implore Heaven to witness the
immolation of flapperdom on the altar of
the Peace that is to be.
The sun was present ;at the Winter meet-
ing at Randwick; but woman, variable
woman, was absent. At least, she was
absent in large numbers. Those of her
who did attend slung animal skins about
velvet-clad shoulders. By the way, has
anybody ever sighted the mysterious animal
with 100 tails? Randwick, on Saturday,
saw lots of capes made from him ; but, unlike
80-peep’s sheep, he carries his tails all round
him. Then there was the aristocrat among
ermine who scorned a tail at all. The
most notable of him snuggled about Mrs.
Jack Campbell. All the other grades of fur
had an outing: the Rolls-Royce, the Ford,
the taxi-cab and the tram-car varieties. But
the fur-coat had gone to the cleaner after
the Autumn meeting and evidently hadn’t
returned. Velvet and the new stockingette
costume were everywhere, and there wasn’t
a female shin-bone that didn’t carry a top-
dressing of silk.
Golden-haired Mrs. Kenna, in navy tailor-
ings, shaded her violet eyes with a white felt
hat. The Rouse party was distinguishable
by the vivid bit of Ireland across Mrs.
Herbert’s shoulders. The Campbell sisters
wore capes of the 100-tailed animal class.
Mrs. Walter Curr’s husband had emulated
the stone-age man and had actually hunted
his wife’s peltry. They were the skins of
the East African blue monkey. Hilda Caro
watched the numbers go up from the shade
of a fringed hat. Black and white stocking-
ette and wool embroideries entwined Hugh
D. Mclntosh’s better ’alf. Mrs. Lockyer
Broughton, in nigger brown, entertained a
large tea party. A garment in pink velvet
that suggested a Roman toga draped Carrie
Moore. And a perfectly stunning creation
carried out in violet panne clothed Mrs. J.
H. Cox.
By the death of
Dr. MacCarthy, Syd-
ney loses a pictur-
esque personality,
and the poor a very
good friend. He is
resting now at Wav-
erley, in view of the
’9B monument which
he designed, and
which, critics de-
clare, is one of the
most distinguished
works in bronze the
wide world over.
Visitors to the Hor-
dern Art Gallery will
recall, too, his grace-
ful and vivid “Spirit
of France” —what a
stir it caused among
the members of the French Mission ! It
was, perhaps, an omen that this last great
conception of the Doctor’s should twice
break during the casting. Quietly, after a
few days’ illness, he dropped into the long
sleep. Artist, musician, friend of struggling
talent, helper of the poor, rest in peace!
Maud McCarthy (now Mrs. Mann) is in
London, doing great work with the quar-
tette which she formed some years ago, and
with which she challenged pre-war London
that she could reclaim the “toughest” quar-
ter of the East End. Everybody knows of
the young Irisli-Australian’s genius, but per-
haps few have heard that at the age of 19
she wrote an article contrasting the music
of the East and the West, and J. Fuller
Maitland, musical critic of the Times, said
it would have been remarkable even had it
come from a matured critic who had spent
a long life in the Orient.
One of the greatest of the doctor’s sor-
rows was the death of his youngest son, who
contracted small-pox in India. Maud, who
was interested in Theosophy at the time, had
the body cremated, and on an Indian night
studded with stars and heavy with perfume,
she put off a little from the land and gave
the ashes to the four winds.
The Wentworth was taxed on Thursday to
feed the frivollers who afterwards journeyed
to the Peace Ball. Numerous smart
matrons and young things gave dinner par-
ties, and then drifted off to cast an apprais-
ing eye over the other affair.
Evelyn, the Spencer Brunton offspring,
has been the hostess of the week. On Thurs-
day she gave a dinner party at the Double
Bay home to precede the Peace Ball, and
her dance on Friday evening was the suc-
cess of the present whirl. Her Thursday’s
frock was carried out in a deep tone of blue;
for her own dance at Gladwood she chose
pale pink and silver tissue.
Gladwood used to be Glenyarrah, the home
of the Kelly family. Bertie Kelly lived in
it as a bachelor, and for a good many years
after he married. Then the rest of the family,
who were part-owners of the place, expressed
a wish to sell. Bertie Kelly didn’t wish to
buy, and the Bruntons did, so the thing was
done. He and his wife now have Caerleon,
on Bellevue Hill. It used to be inhabited by
the Charlie Fairfaxes —the only members of
the family to be divorced —and later passed
to the Ewan Frazers, who are now settled in
England.
Sargents’ ballroom, very snick and span
in its new cream and rose trappings, has set
out the sign of the dancing slipper, and its
supper shufflings are to be one of the season’s
relaxations for those w 7 ho are recovering
from the shock the income-tax man gives
them. On Saturday the floor w r as declared
open, and dancers buzzed to the new rendez-
vous like bees round a honey-pot. Mrs.
Harry Austin brought 50 guests w 7 ith her;
and the Jack Campbells with their chicks
wer-e also present. Some of the tables were
conservative and seated only two.
The knitted girl was the gayest thing at
the opening of the Glaciarium on Thursday.
Jerseyed and scarved and capped, she was
the essence of winter happiness. Over 2000
skaters sped over the surface ; and the gifted
few waltzed and curvetted while the nervous
beginner looked on in speechless envy. Did
anybody try the tickletoe? That would be
an achievement.
There was a rustle of brightest-liued coats
and jackets in the members stand at the
big football match at the Cricket Ground on
Saturday. The gathering also had a
sprinkle of old-time cricketers —the Bards-
leys and Gregorys in the front row —with
their wives, and the sparkle in the game
made many rosy cheeks rosier. Early in
the afternoon Governor Davidson went to
the trustees’ comfy little office, and there
for the first time heard the Maori curse or
welcome, or whatever the weird noise is.
The Uni. girls had a hop last week at
Glebe Point, and kicked the idea of blue
stockings and dowdiness still further in the
direction of the hourglass figure. The dance
was a joyous affair of students and saw-
bones, and the frocking was terribly smart.
From a Brisbane balcony:—
The other Saturday Sister May Ilockings, lately
returned from India, was quietly married to Lieut.
Len Boase, M.O. The bridegroom was a prisoner of
war for a time, so he won’t criticise the cooking.
The ’flu seems to be making little headway, but
several well-known people are being mourned for.
Dora Friedlander, daughter of the Rabbi; Mrs. 11. W.
Wills, wife of one of our well-known dentists, and
Hugo Treweeke, of Umbercollie station (Goondi-
windi), are three of the victims.
Mrs. G. T. Weale, a well-known Inky Wayfarer,
died at the Hospice, Lytton-road, last week.
May Bryan, daughter of the Walter Bryans, of
Chelmer, and sister of Lieut. Bryan, M.C., is engaged
to Lieut. Archie Pursell, of Sydney.
John Macgregor, who leaves the chair of the
Courier to take the associate editorship of the S. M.
Herald, will be missed in Brisbane. His equally
popular wife finds it a hard job to get round to all
the farewells that have been arranged for her.
Mrs. Bill Grant, better known to Australian artists
as Gwen Stanley, has had a number of her painting's
on exhibition at R. S. Exton’s. There are several
portraits, the best of them one of her uncle, Col.
Stanley.
Tlie King’s Birthday levee last week was
almost jolly. Instead of the usual formal
shake-hands the Governor chatted with each
of his guests, and there must have been a
joke or two, judging by the laughter. This
lengthened-out the ceremony considerably.
His Ex. looked as pleased as if he’d got a
rise of screw. The show was also noted for
being the first at which two high dignitaries
of the R.C. Church attended. The robes of
both the Apostolic Delegate and Archbishop
Kelly gave color to the scene.
This is Mrs. Repi-
quet, the pretty wife
of the Governor of
New Caledonia. On
their way to Tou-
louse, they are mak-
ing a longer stay in
Sydney than they
meditated; and
Madame shudders at
all the transhipping
there seems to be in
store for her. The
fresh-skinned lady is
in love with Sydney,
and hopes one day
to see more of its
“w r onderful beau-
ties.” That will be
on the way back to
New Caledonia, for
she is looking forward to a return after her
visit to beloved France, In New 7 Caledonia,
life—for a Governor’s wife —has few excite-
ments ; music and riding and gardening are
the chief pastimes of the women. A theatri-
cal company, occasionally. Madame’s eyes
hold a twinkle as she recalls some of the
histrionic treats. Then there’s the cinema
—oh, without doubt, the cinema!
Lady Davidson, with Diana and Daphne,
spent the w 7 eek-end with Miss Macarthur
Onslow at Camden Park. On this estate is
the oldest private house in N. S. Wales —the
homestead of Elizabeth Farm, built in 1790
by the first Macarthur to land here, and
called after his wife.
Because of his domesticity Jellicoe is
“Mary” in the Navy. This should make
for Lady Davidson’s peace of mind. Like
lesser mortals she has suffered from the tan-
trums of Mary Anne, and, if it comes to the
worst, “Mary” w'ill be able to fend for him-
self while he is at Guv’ment House.
Colebrook, Double Bay, where the first
Mark Foy's youngest daughter, Mrs. J. J-
Smith, died a few days ago, has been occu-
pied bv several more or less historic people.
IV. A. Duncan, Collector of Customs, of some
literary fame, died there. So did ex-Premier
Patrick Jennings and Railway Commissioner
Eddy.
The Alec Dalgleishes left for England i'ia
America by the craft which Freeman the
hunger-striker has advertised. Their sta-
tion, Pomeroy, is one of the show-places of
the Goulburn district, and they leave it
so rarely that Sydney hardly knows tnein
by sight* She was a Miss Maxwell-Scott —
a niece of the Duke of Norfolk —and they
spent their, honeymoon at Arundel Castle.
A son who has just left the Army is at
Oxford —at his father’s old College, Christ
Church.
Colonel and Mrs. Newton got back last
week. He is a relative of pretty Mrs. Lang
Want, and used to be an A.D.C. on the staff
•of Governor- Macgregor of Queensland. His
wife is the auburn-haired sister of Captain
Ralph Yerney, who married Nita Walker,
cousin of the millionairess, and is now in
India.
June the tenth will see Rose Miller, of
Mosman, become Mrs. Lionel Irvine. The
groom-to-be held a commission in the 20th
Battalion, and is son of Professor Irvine.
The junior Irvines will set up camp at
Narrabri, where he is on an engineering job.
Doris Parett, daughter of the George
Paretts, of Mosman, is wearing a shining
circlet. The man in the case is David
Barker, son of Mrs. Begg, of Mosman —the
artist-warrior.
Hurry up, children, with that fancy-dress
idea for the juvenile Rose Ball. There’s a
scooter in the prize list; and kindly Nellie
Stewart is to be one of the judges, so nobody
need be nervous—if you don’t get a prize
you’re sure of the sweetest smile.
On June 27 the Wentworth Free Kinder-
garten Committee will gather in the pennies
at the Oxford Hall. Cabaret entertainment
in the afternoon; dance at night.
At two precisely to-day the Merrymakers
kick off with their matinee to lighten the ex-
penses of the Rose Balls. Everybody’s
invited; but drop a penny or so into the
envelope you’ll get at the door.
The first Sydney exhibition of the Aus-
tralian Arts Club (postponed several times
on account of ’flu) will be opened in the
Education gallery on Saturday at J o’clock.
Beginning casually as a nameless sketching
group, meeting one night a week, the club
eventually found its feet and a name,
attracted the best of the younger men. and
bounded ahead like a, scorched lion.
Will Ashton is hanging the walls of the
Artists’ Gallery with his canvases. Many
of the works have been exhibited at the
Royal Institute, London. There are English
and Continental subjects scattered among
the gumtrees. Royal Exchange Buildings,
corner of Pitt and Bridge.
The War Chest has got a special till for
Jack Tar; and every sailor coming home is
to receive an envelope with “Welcome
Home” smiling across its face. Inside the
envelope will be a perfectly new ten-shilling
note - and- —well, it doesn’t look as though
Australia will go dry till after Fleet week.
The Soldiers’ Club had its fourth birthday
last week, and it fell on the same date as
that of George Rex. The club was fes-
tooned with flags,* and Digger’s friends uiled
up all the chairs in the reception-room while
good-humored soldier-faces grinned from the
doorway. His Ex. brought a speech, his
wife and Mrs. Eliot; Dr. Mary Booth and
J. O. Fairfax also brought speeches, and J.
O.’s debonair use of the word pub gave
hope that the S. M. Hekald may some day
even say- blanky. Governor Davidson told
how he. had been taught swimming by the
Australian Cavill, and Lady Davidson pre-
sented the prizes won in the Club’s swim-
ming carnival. Then the harmony was renr
by somebody calling for cheers for Freeman,
and a clatter of cups answered the sum-
mons to be foolish.
Maie Sydney, the dainty Sombra of “The
Arcadians,” w r ho married Captain Reynolds,
of India, is expected to arrive in Sydney with
her husband and little daughter shortly. For
the past year Mrs. Reynolds has been an
invalid, but she is better now.
Captain Charles Orr and his mother came
back on the Niagara. He left for the Front
in the early days of the war, in spite of a
short-sightedness which was so marked that
numbers of doctors turned him down. lie
did most of his service in the sth (F.A.)
Brigade, a. haughty unit which, under Gen-
eral “Bertie” Lloyd, specialised, both in and
out of the firing-line, in brass buttons for
the officers and white lanyards for the men.
Colonel “Toby” Watt, mentioned in last
week’s Letter, is homeward bound aboard the
Kaiser-i-Hind.


id:
/limited!-
J^Pccjj' o / Zc j cA.lacas.
_
a
v
n
-
■
jffne fecirljfchlaces at prices ranging from £2O toff ooo
linearis arc the most lashionable ofgems, & the
UGompariLj specialge in-line learls & \diole fearl
Necklaces. make a feature oCusing a
single fearl as lhe nucleus of a siring of learls.
J7his is threaded on a f\\ ne Platinum or
gold chain (as iHuslralcf) e can be added to gr-
adually till complete. J 1 single I£arl on chain can
be purchase d from £lO-0-0.
Selections sent on approval & a copy of
the ( ompanips Catalogue will be forwarded on
request.
Hardy Brothers I™
13 HUNTER ST
S V D N E V.
298 COLLINS ST
MELBOURNE..
11G 118 QUEEN ST
BRISBANE...
AND
LONDON..
TAKE PHOTOS OF
LORD JELLICOE’S ARRIVAL
with one of HARRINGTONS’ Cameras
The arrival of Lord Jellieoe, in the battleship New Zealand, and the
procession afterwards through the city streets will be an event that you
should have a photo of.
And in a few short weeks the Peace Celebrations ! Tliotos of these
events, taken by yourself, will keep them fresh in your memory for many
years to come.
Call —let us show you how easy it is to use a camera. We teach
photography free to every purchaser of a camera.
We Have a Large Range of
The World’s Best Makes
from which to make your selection, including
The V.P. ANSCO No. 2,
the little Vest Pocket Camera with the capacity for
doing big things.
Takes Photos 2J4 x 3M inches.
Fitted with Anastigmat Lens in Focussing Mount,
enabling you to focus direct on your subject and
Shutter, giving exposures from 1 /l()th to 1/200th of
a second.
With F 7.5 Modico Anastigmat Lens ...... £5/5/-
With F 6.3 Ansco Anastigmat Lens £7/10/-
ENSI GNS—BROWNIES—KODAKS
In All Sizes at All Prices.
Harringtons’ Laboratories
Specialise in Metallurgical and Assay Work.
Every branch of Metallurgical Analysis and Refinement, Ore Testing
and Assay Work is done at Harringtons’ Laboratories. Jewellers’.
Dentists’ and other Metalworkers’ Sweeps, Residues and other Waste Pro-
ducts treated in the most expeditious and efficient manner, every grain of
metal that is of value being extracted.
We Collect Material for Treatment in City or Suburbs, free
of charge.
A note or ’phone message to any of our branches will receive
prompt attention.
Photographic and Cinematographic Merchants,
Metallurgists, Analysts and Assayer^,
386 George Street, Sydney. 266 Collins Street, Melbourne.
93-95 Queen Street, Brisbane. 43 Bundle Street, Adelaide.
144 Queen Street, Auckland. 42 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Laboratories and Works: 57-59 George Street North, Sydney.
sJ-IS*i- :
*
- * - .
vm
U
You’ll be glad to know them, ’cause they’re full of that war-is-over-let’s-
be-happy spirit of 1919 —’cause they make you smile and hum and
whistle and feel good all over.
They’re songs alive with fascinating melody, rounded out with snappy lyrics
that’s why they’ve swept into popularity all over the world.
Ja - DaV
Words in a Music M
c.oPrA>6nrdy<-£o#*>tr.,m. 808 CaRIETON
CHORUS V\',t»r lots of Ja Da
Ju Da,. Ja Da,_ Ja Da Ja Da Jlng\Jlng,
v
Jing, Ja Da. JaTDa, Ja Da.Ja Da.Jlng, Jmg,
Jing. Thata a ftia ny Ut-tle bit oJ mel-o-dy_
m
tia 60 eoolh-iflg and ap-peal-leg to me._ It goes
Ja Da, Ja Da, Ja Da.Ja Da.Jlng, Jiog, Jlog I
“ Ja-Da ! ” The Jazz Sensation
The jazziest jazz Song ever jazzed, it s peculiar, tan-
talizing dance-song melody is already a big favourite
wherever there's life and music. Take this page to your
piano and try it out —you’ll know
why “Ja-Da ” is a tremendous Hit.
m
Onsz\e MOW
ahMl Muitf Stores
2'-
CM
h<?
PuW<?r
Each
<?.nu
\ '
5e5
;
on the
MacKinG
e
*4
v 1
TJ
Try
These
Over
On Your
Piano
THE BELLS OF PEACE
CHORUS
(RING. RINC. RING.)
REGINALD A. A. STONEHAM
8e11a,.... A joy oni paal they’re rise - ins. Boll*- of hap-py
Peace, they’re am* ing, ma ■ay hearts will hear them sad - ly.
Ha ay oth era hear them glad - ly.. Ring- *., aad cheer the
Boys re • turn, yes. Biag for lor - ing hearts'that yearn. How the
sil rer lining’s bright -ly shin ing, Sing. Bing.
r
Bing! I
hear the Ring.
THE ROSE OF NO MAN'S LAND
Word* by'JACK CADDiCAN Mu»ic by JAMES A. BRENNAN
CHORUS u >Uh ttpttmon ■
m
Tbefe'B a row that (nwi am "Ho Maa'a Load." Aad iU
f i r - r I
won-der-fol to tu,....-- Tho' it«»»taydwith ttara, it will
live foTitara, In my far den of mem -or - 1 lt *
o&t red rose Dm toWier knows, It’s the work of the Master i
kind... 'Mid the wars great ewswuss* use Eed Cross tbs
rose of “Ho Mans Land.'* There's a land
The Bells of Peace
A real joy-bringing ballad, by the com-
poser of “ Heroes of the Dardanelles.”
with words and a pleasing melody to
suit the great occasion. A wonderful
success wherever sung.
The Rose of No Man’s Land
The most appealing Song of the period,
with its words of tender feeling and
inspiring melody. A glorious tribute to
the greatest mother in the world, “ The
Red Cross Nurse.”
Smiles
The Song that New York went wild
over. Everybody is singing it —humming
it —playing it. The words are pleasing
and the music is catchy and infectious
Try it over.
Published also as a Fox-Trot. ’ Smiles”
is simply wonderful-
DEAR LITTLE BOY OF MINE
Lyric by Music by
J KEIRN BRENNAN Tenderly with much expression ERNEST R. BALL
Bay o. mine, Boy of mine, Al*tbo' my heart was
I seemed to know you'd want to go
ach • mg
Til be here
Pride in your mai} hood waK *mg
wait - ing dear. Till at a glad dawn’s break mg
hear you say you re home to stay. Bear tit tie boy of
Dear lit tie boy of mine ®me
Dear Little Boy of Mine
More beautiful than any ballad you’ve sung in recent years,
with a human note that goes to the heart. The melody of a
sustained order, has a haunting refrain, even better than
“ Mother Machree.” Published also as a Waltz. It s rich,
dreamy, flowing melody makes an entrancing dance number.
Lync by SMILES Music by
1 WILL CALLAHAN U£ S. ROBERTS
al . REFRAIN , fit - i - . , , ,
There are smiles that make us hap • py. There are smiles
.. that make us blue There are femiks tbaliteal a - way the
tear • drops As the sun .. beams steal a * way the 4*w
... There are smiles that have a ten. der mean-in* .. That the
eyes of lot© a - lone may sea. And the smiles that
my life with Are the smiles that you (tvs to mo
Ja-Da! and The Rose of No Man’s Land
Are published together AS A Fox-Trot—and what
a Dance!


4 Best * always wins
a BEST Way lo
‘ sing a song, thread a needle,
or sweep a floor. The best way to
make Collars is thoroughly under-
stood in the PELACO workrooms.
To such an extent has this "best
way ’ ’ been studied that PELACO
Collars always "win" With men
who demand the utmost in style,
quality and service.
Reliable Mercers everywhere sell
COLLARS
Made In
Australia
“THERE’S MONEY IN THE PEN.”
fc']
The above
is the title
of our book-
let, which
tells about
the possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
by HARRY J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
difference between
learning to COPY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains, in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
penny stamps
to-day for a
copy of this
booklet—
“THEßE’S
MONEY
IN
THE
PEN.”
The HARRY J. WESTON
Postal .School of Drawing
126 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY.
ESTERBROOK’S
PEN NIBS.
DOES the nib you are using exactly please you?
If not, write and tell us your ideas of a good
nib. Samples by return, no charge.
ESTERBROOK, Box 98 G.P.0., Sydney.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN’& OFFICE USE.
MADE
Perfection
Pirm RUBBER
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author.
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
H 8 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
LIVE MEN PLAY GOLF.
The LIVE LEATHER BELT
*
Will help you win that match you have in mind.
This celebrated belt embodies the highest achievement in belt making. Every belt
carries the manufacturer’s guarantee of “Satisfaction or a New Belt,” and with eacn
belt is packed a guarantee coupon.
PRICE 10/6
McMILLAN, DEERY & CO. LTD., 38 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Also, Farmer’s, Gowing’s and most up-to-date Men’s Mercers.
THRIFT’’-the National Watchword
In these present days of economy, when apparel is required to give the utmost
service,
Bostock’s Shoe Dressings
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
provide an excellent polish, which will increase the wear, preserve the leather and
give a bright and lasting shine. Bostock’s Violo Cream, for Patent Leather and
Glace Kid, is a scientific emulsion of high-grade waxes, which keeps the leather
soft and pliable, thus preventing cracks and insuring added service.
Colors : Black, Brown, Dark Brown, Ox Blood and White. In Tins, Bottles and Tubes.
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
Bostock’s Violo Polishes, Ltd., Sydney.
8
m
e 1
Look/0/'
This tag
Without it in on each coil
you are liable to have
inferior wire substituted
for
“WARATAH”
FENCING WIRE
From the Ore to the
Fence Australian.
There is no other so good for quality
and strength. Superior to the im-
ported and lower in price, yet each
coil is guaranteed.
Your storekeeper can supply you with
“Waratah” —we supply the trade only.
Ask us for Fencing Booklet Nl9.
Free on request.
Austral Nail Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Ferrars Street, South Melbourne,
VICTORIA.
BilimmwMi
MADE FROM LEMONS ONLV
"KJP BROOKE’S
r tEWOfI 50UASH
[LARGEST SALE IN THE WORLO
««
f —sumptuously ap-
pointed and situated
right in the heart of the
City of Melbourne
Tariff by the day 10/6
Cr. Svvanston Street
and Flinders Lane,
Melbourne
, C. R. KERR, ,
Proprietor A
i\o Shortage. Ample Supplies.
Horlick’s Malted Milk contains
all requisite forms of nourish-
ment. That is what makes
Horlick's so rich so delicious,
li you have not yet tried Hor-
liek’s, there is a great treat in
store for you.
HO RUCK’S
MALTED MILK
CAPILLARINE
<?•
for
Quick
Results.
A splendid growth of Hair can be produced
on the upper lip by the aid of CAPIH-
LARINE. Make up your mind to grow the
Moustache, and start using CAPILLAKIIN
right away. A preparation of unfailing
merit.
PRICE 10/6 JAR —POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
ABBEY
SHOES!
The name “Abbey” on a shoe is the dis-
tinguishing and convincing mark of
QUALITY —a positive guide to satisfac-
tion.
We feature a special Golf Shoe in choice
Tan Willow Calf.
Heavy Soles, 42/=
Light Soles, 40/-
Postage extra.
Made in half and full sizes, and in
three fittings—narrow, medium and wide.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No nolice (except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS } will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Ironbark: Read it again. The Bulletin
isn’t so stupid as to oppose primary industry. But
it does object to so much dependence being put upon
destructive industries, which must from their very
nature be only temporary; also it wants to see far
more “secondary” industries, so that the primary
producers won’t have to send three-fourths of their pro-
ducts vast distances to compete there with the similar
products of colored and other cheap 1ab0r.... S.G.:
Interesting; but are present conditions like that ?
Pol: Dunno; but will put it to “Hamer.”
Jobber: Thanks; the world is full of pirates, and
that Cumberland paper is one of them.... Almanac:
Doesn’t matter; probably comes to the same thing.
Jim Warren: It’s a freak, but not the only one
of its kind Lindum: Old as the ashes of sin
and the dust of virtue Lolo: Afraid we can’t.
The papers are snapped up quickly and treasured
Dook: Chess isn’t one of our vices. Try one of the
papers that publish those absorbing diagrams
W.8.R.: Thanks, but the little paper reaches this
office regularly N.L.S.: All contributions printed
are paid for. Cut out and post to accountant,
giving date and page Aide-de-Camp: Hard to
say whether the matter is worse than the
verse, or the verse worse than the matter....
Rambler: Poor, thin verse, which says the obvious
and says it badly S.M.D.: Insane fragment re-
jected Phrynette: As feeble as soap in a shower
of rain K.J.S.: Shoo! W.M. (Hawthorn):
Stupid stuff W.J.D.: Don’t care for “Widow.”
... . J.W.G.: How can you be pathetic to a tune of
hop-and-jump like that?... .L.M.K.: Seems past
criticism Bally: No use to us. Think of some-
thing other people haven’t said too often before
Sea Dog: “Revenge” not what we like Venice:
Verse no good. Pick another pen-name. “A.8.C.” be-
longs to somebody else. .. .M.F. (Wollstonecraft) :
Verse rotten F.F. (Bridgetown): No use
Senryb: Verses not up....Xela: Nothing... . N.H.
(Dalby) : First find out what verse is Hannibal.
One slab :—•
Religion with its goodness
Some help to sinners give;
It shows the light of mercy
So they in peace may live.
But nations all should govern
Their land with honest men.
Since laws are meant for raising
An honest citizen.
Kangaratta: Some ideas, but verse doesn’t caiTy
them Full o’ the Moon: Should sell elsewhere.
.. . .G.E.M.: The verses say nothing more than the
title conveys... .D.P.M.: “The Old Grey House’
held up well till it came to the last stanza, and
then fell to pieces—evidently trying to “douse” the
“mouse.” April: Can’t stand “her rosy-curded
fist.” “After Dusk” hasn’t enough force or fresh-
ness L.V.8.: Nothing there G.F.E.: You can’t
rhyme “naughty” with “forty.”.... Drover’s Life:
Too commonplace... .L.K. (Carlton): Doesn’t move
U5....M.D. (Glenorchy) : A sonnet must be better
than that E.H.D.: Poor G.L.T.: “An eye for
an eye” is too horrible to be even convincing....
Bellerive: This tragic item will do: —
Have mercy Ben have mercy,
Appealed a young and faithful wife,
To her fierce and Drunken husband
Who vowed to end her Life,
The devil he cried in frenzy,
I’ll seal thy tragic doom,
When her shrieks aroused the boarders,
Who broke into the room,
With the grim and merciless monster,
A boarder young and stout,
Exclaimed I’m going to teach you,
For knocking your wife about,
When the victim of he’s fury,
To the hero bold did say,
Please unhand my husband,
We’re rehearsing for a play,
.... In the West: Verse too rugged and ideas not very
bright C.C.H.: It keeps the sonnet form in a
* rugged way, but has none of the sonnet’s strength
or delicacy... .G.F.E.: Not at all fond of “Mar(e.” .
i.... Eileen: Don’t remember “Impenitent”; but who
told you our contributors were all replied to here ?
Many are never referred to in this column....
S.W.P.: “Substance and Shadow” doesn’t convince.
... .Taivago (or something) : Good idea, but verse
too lumpy. .. .R.D.F.: Some color, but your hand-
ling of the theme is 1005 e.... Land Boom: Nothing
for us 11.H.C.: Situation altogether beyond belief.
i . ...E.M.W.: “War Broken” flounders and falls
over its own feet too frequently... .R.J.J. A.: Idea
worked too often before... .K.C.R.: Not for u 5....
C.M.M.: Very nearly Amator: Crude tale and
cruder verse E.J.G.: The bees don’t buzz any
better than last time, and the “Box” is crudest
melodrama P.A.F.: Glad to consider anything you
’ care to submit R.R.L.: No use, thank you, for
any horribly expensive scheme to further concentrate
population in the County of Cumberland P.K.8.:
Don’t know; but, on the experience of similar places
elsewhere, shouldn’t advise you to pawn anything to
get in.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
M.L.W.; Too local and the rain is over —at least
we hope so Guss S.: Such solemn wash-gentlemen
would not jest lightly M.C. r Copying isn’t much
of a test W.C.: Very gloomy. Why is the blind
wife turning away from the one-eyed husband ?....
P.S.H.: Very little humor in your line Keynote:
The revellers are out of drawing... .C. 11.8.: Good
try for beginner.... General Notice: The artistic
Bolshevik responsible for the alcoholic parson and
the bandy aboriginal is implored to call and remove
his work of art....W.J.: N0,...0.8.: All crashed.
. ...L.H.: It doesn’t get past the post.... J.R.8.:
Done already P.A.F.: Suggestions for cartoons or
humorous drawings needn’t be accompanied by
sketches. We pay for the idea.
Another of those horse-butchering out-
breaks which puzzle both police and mental-
specialists has occurred in Adelaide. To
cut the throats of strange horses in the dark
must be the work of a lunatic, surely! The
police, after three such cases on the City
park-lands, gathered in a young man whose
father said he was queer but harmless. He
had a suspiciously stained razor, and was
sent to proper restraint at Parkside. And
then, just as the problem was supposed to be
comfortably settled, another similar butchery
occurred. It recalls the Great Wyrley case
in England, where a University student, son
of the local vicar, was imprisoned for just
such a series of outrages, although protesting
his innocence, and while he was in gaol they
went on just the same—whereupon he was
released.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Calnnes-de-
Luae. Staterooms with bedsteads an
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-. Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.—City 4246, 2,4, 6 Spring Street,
iOi* 1 7
Sydney to England
via
the Allied Route,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yoseniite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, JULY 9.
VENTURA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Telephone: City 2282. 44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Hanking, Public Companies, Jfcc.
THK
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The lion. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman) ; WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ; Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP,
K.C.M.G.; Hon. A. J. TIIYNNE, M.L.C.
Gf.nkrai, Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Hear] Cilice: Brisbane.
Sydney Ollice: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Blanches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital . . .. .. 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 247,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 6
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq.; W. 11. Hart, Esq.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - 15HI8DANE.
Ilrnnches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
Amorloa, Canada, South Afrloa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £145,000
Directors: MARK SHELDON, Esq., Chairman;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LLI). ; FRANK N.
YARWOOD, Esq. ; HERBERT R. LYSAGIIT,
Esq.; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq.; Hon. F.
JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.
General Manager : C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Chief Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedie Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 139 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up .. .. .. 1,000.000
Uncalled Capital .. . . . . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2.345,702
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts all other usual Banking
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
business.
MACDONALD,
HAMILTON S CO.
Managing Agents for
Australasian : United Steam Navigation Clm.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co. Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates Ltd.
Blackheath Collieries Limited.
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Shipping, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST, FASTEST. AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
R.M.S. MAKURA, EARLY JULY.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, EARLY AUGUST.
The most beautiful Scenery in the World —tl. e Canadian Rockies —is on the All-Red Route.
The Prairies, the Great Lakes, Chicago, Niagara Pails and New York can all be visited.
Through bookings to all Canadian, United States and European points.
Stop-overs on the Railways Arranged.
CALL OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS OF THIS ROUTE.
PASSENGERS CAN CHANGE AT HONOLULU INTO A DIRECT STEAMER FOR
SAN FRANCISCO.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ISLAND TOURS.
Now is the Time to Visit the PACIFIC ISLANDS.
DELIGHTFUL TOURS to
NORFOLK ISLAND and NEW HEBRIDES.
SOLOMON ISLANDS.
PAPUA and RABAUL.
Trips of Four, Five and Seven Weeks’ Duration.
BURNS, PHILP 8 CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve liability
Directors :
£3,912,440
£3,100,000
£3,912,440
£10,924,880
The Hon. Sir Cnarles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
F. B. S. Falkiner, Esq., M.11.H.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Auditors : S. E. Laidley, Esq. ; A. G. Milson, Ksq.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
General Manager: Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office —29 Threadneedle Street, K.C.
340 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular not.es issued, negotiable throughout the World,
Commonwealth
HEAD OFFICE
Jsaitfe of Australia
SYDNEY.
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking: Business
.nthe Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain),
also London (2), and A.I.F. Camps in England.
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and SAVINGS BANK AGENCIES at 2776 Post Offices
throughout Australia, Papua, New Britain, Solomon Islands,
and The Pacific.
JAMES KELL, DENISON MILLER,
Deputy Governor 1919 Governor
SPECIAL FACILITIES FOR SAVING
are offered by this Bank —absolute security, liberal interest, and
the convenience of a Branch or Agency in almost every locality.
Deposits
accepted from one shilling upwards.
Withdrawals
payable on demand at the Branch where the account is
kept.
Interest
allowed at 3% per cent, per annum on every £ up to
£5OO.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales,
The STATE Savings Institution.
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE BANK that PAYS 51% INTEREST on SAVINGS
Shin
mm. mi mm.
Osaka ShosenKaisha
(O.S.K. Mercantile Steamship Co. Ltd.).
Direct Monthly Cargo Service
Manila, Hong Kong, Japan and
the East. Transhipment cargo
accepted for all Eastern ports,
Pacific Coast ports and Europe,
transhipping at Japan.
NANKING MARU, sailing middle July.
For particulars apply to
American Trading Ccmpany
of Australia,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
40 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
And at Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide.
Sydney Inter-State
Sub-Committee.
INTER-STATE SAILINGS SUSPENDED
OWING TO STRIKE.
Huddart Parker LiM 1
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND.—ReguIar sail-
ings between Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand
ports and vice versa; particulars to be obtained on
application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA. —From Sydney to
Hobart and vice versa every three weeks. Between
Melbourne and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Golllna Street, Melbourne; George Street, Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
1 Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larlr to
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY. COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads—steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 11s.; second-class rail and steerage on
steamer, £4 ss.
For Guide and all particulars apply;—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST.. SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
Favorite Mail Route to Japan, with connections
at Japan to
EUROPE AND AMERICA.
Tours can be arranged to China, Japan, Korea,
by this Line.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN.
Via Brisbane, Townsville, Thursday
r sland, Zamboanga, Manila, Hongkong,
Nagasaki, Kobe, and Yokohama.
Passengers must obtain from the Quarantine
Authorities permits to leave New South Wales at least
three days before the steamer’s departure.
SPECIAL NOTICE. —All Passengers proceeding to
JAPAN must have their Passports vised by the Con-
sul-General for Japan in accordance with the regula-
tions of the Japanese Government
Full particulars of Sailing Dates, Passage Money,
Freights, etc., apply
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LTD.,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
f QUEENSLAND.^
THE KEY TO \
PROSPERITY.
QUEENSLAND
opens (he door to
prosperity tor those
requiring land
Particulars ot (he
millions ol seres of
Crown Lano
now available will be
sen! you at once,
also Booklets on the
State's resources—
FREE
tSamt
Address
Queenslafid Gover&meftt
lateMileace sad Tourist Bwreu
BRISBANE
u
S.B.


v\\V
mm i
1
: ">V7
BILLIARD &SNOOKE
i
&
v'i'jv;
i
m
iMWiWPaiMWb
In play they are resilient —faultless in running true to angle and of pei feet balance.
Far and away superior to any other ball. Unaffected by climatic conditions.
BILLIARD BALLS
Sizes: l|in. ljin. 2in. 2Vin.
10/6 15/6 21/- 30/- set
(Postage on One Set-N.S.W., 9d.; Other States, 1/2).
s
NOOKER BALLS
Sizes: 2in 2iUn.
£5/5/- £B|B-set
(We Pay Carriage on Bnooker Balls).
Sole Australasian Distributers:
1C
Headquarters—Haymarket, Sydney.
New City Sports Depot: 99 King Street.
And at Newcastle and Brisbane.
m
.
Which Pipe?
You’ve read of GBD—heard of
it—seen it time and again.
Give it a practical try-out!
Its fifty-year reputation
vouches for its quality.
D
theperfect pipe !
[Vlany popular shapes.
FOR SALE EVERYWHERE.
mmmminguujuu
11
ll
-
ILHAMS
SHERWh
Paint Prepared.
You paint property to PROTECT it. “Save the surface and you
save all.” Therefore it is essential to use a paint that will
adhere as a durable, protective film, impervious to the severest
weather.
“S-W-P” (Prepared) is a protective paint of the finest quality—
easy to apply and economical to use.
£
COVER
THE
EARTH
The Sherwin-Williams Co.(Australia)Ltd.
63 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Distributors:
SYDNEY: Watson & Crane, Ltd.; G. E. Crane & Sons, Ltd.
MELBOURNE: James McEwan & Co. Pty., Ltd.
ADELAIDE: Colton, Palmer & Preston, Ltd.
PERTH: A. C. MeCallum, Ltd.
BRISBANE: R. S. Exton & Co., Ltd.
Agents in all principal towns throughout Australasia.


V M
: *’ '
MISS
VAL
MEAGHER
(from a photo").
Another Charming Advocate for
REXONA
Being a constant user of your
beautiful Rexona Soap, I hasten to
join the throng of admirers who
openly state their preference for it
above all other soaps. For the
complexion, it is unsurpassed. The
skin, after its use, is soft and
elastic instead of dry and tight, as
so many soaps—and very expensive
soaps, too —leave it. Rexona Soap
is perfect for the hair, keeping the
scalp in health and the hair full of
life and gloss. Rexona Ointment
is good for the skin and scalp, and
keeps both, in those keen winter
days that play such havoc with un-
protected skin, just as smooth as
if one had never gone out of doors.
If you care to use my letter in
any way, please do so, as I would
like others to benefit by my experi-
ence. I remain,
Yours faithfully,
(Sgd.) VAL MEAGHER.
Darlinghurst Road,
Darlinghurst.
REXONA and REXONA SOAP.
MORE POPULAR THAN EVER.
All the world over., everyone
likes the Rexona Remedies.
They are universal favorites
and never disappoint you.
Rexona is the Rapid Healer
and Rexona Soap is the facial
soap of the century. Care for
yourself by using Rexona and
Rexona Soap, and your skin
and hair will reflect the im-
provement from the first and
you will delight yourself as
well as your friends.
Rexona the Rapid Healer
has always been famous for
its wonderful healing powers.
Many people now thank
Rexona for skin-health and
comfort. It is a reliable remedy
for cuts, burns and all irrita-
tions and eruptions of the skin.
Those who have once used
Rexona and Rexona Soap wonder how
they ever got along without them. So
don’t forget to take a pot of Rexona
the Rapid Healer and a tablet of
Rexona Skin and Facial Soap home
to-night.
REXONA THE RAPID HEADER, 1/6
and 3/-. REXONA SOAP, 1/-.
At-....,
,/4«hs*phj Omfmy,
t# AOsolyf
tf Ao3olufel>
* H«afa J R f | lsW «
Rel.abi#
* R
es
t=f
TTuf soom*
MfAU'NC A*Ti3*PTtC SOAP
COJCAItB f* THE SANE PftlMCtpU
is :h1 rAMaus RCxona oi*T*&*
m
m
REXONA,
1/6 and 3/-
REXONA
SOAP, 1/-
the palace hotel
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OF PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
JOHN T. GLOWREY, Proprietor.
P ice 17 /-. also Onoto Valveless
for those who do not want a Self-
Flliing Safety Pen 12 & and up-
wards of all Stationers, Jewellers,
and Stores. Manufacturers: Thos.
De La Rue & Co., Ltd., Bunhill
Row. London, E.C. Managing
Ag nts: Norman Baker & Long-
hurst, Sydney and Melbourne.
ASK FOR ONOTO INK —
best for all pens.
Get the Pen that regulates
its ink fIow— FAST or SLOW.
The Onoto. A simple turn of the
“head" regulates the flow of ink
exactly as you want it. Another
“turn”renders the Onoto a sealed
tube in your pocket, so that it
cannot possibly leak. It is the
, only£elf-Filling Pen in which Ink
Pellets can be used.
oto
Pen
fhe Self filling
Safety Forataia Pea.
Mixing and Sifting Machines
Complete Self-Raising-
Flour Plants.
Feeding, Mixing and
Conveying Plants for
Manures and Chemi-
cals.
Package Packers.
Concrete Mixers.
Rolled Oats Cookers
and Steamers.
Bag Hoists.
Combined Grinding,
Collecting & Sifting
Plants.
Baking Flour Mills.
Roller Mills.
Pulverisers.
Disintegrators.
Centrifugal Dressing
Machines.
V-b::v
i mm i
High-speed Sifters for
Hand and Power.
Dustless Sack Cleaners.
Dust Collectors.
Bottle-filling Machines.
Rough Breakers.
Chilian Grinding Mills.
Beef Hoists.
Boiler-feed Power
Pumps.
Steel Conveyors.
Cast-iron Spiral Con-
veyors.
Belt Trippers.
Belt Carriers and Re-
turn Idlers.
Barrel Elevators.
No. 14 Size Heavy-duty Mixing Machine, with Rough Crusher & Removable Sieve.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES, POST FREE.
Schumacher Mill Furnishing Works Pty. Ltd.,
PORT MELBOURNE, VICTORIA. [2
Primal.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
rfIHAT light in your ' eyes— whence did
you get it?
Firing, thrilling your grouped behold-
ers —■
The massed gold hair on your shapely head,
The curve and flow of your throat and
shoulders ?
Though modern and modish, and staid aixd
careful,
Shaped and moulded by pride and fashion,
You sit and smile, yet that look you gave
Was fierce with fires of a primal passion.
The sea far-sending its song of ages,
Stars pale shining—a changeless legion
They told me all, and my mind went back
To long dead days and an age-old region.
For there you were standing, a skin-clad
huntress,
Tresses bright to your hips down-streaming;
In place of the pearls that ring your throat,
Curved teeth and shells from the deep sea
gleaming.
The winds of the night stole round you,
bringing .
Thick, sweet perfumes and odors fruity;
Your hair red-lit by the red night-fire,
You stood, eyes shining with fierce, wild
beauty.
Behind in the darkness gaped your cave,
Strewn with leaves from the Autumn forest;
A wounded thing in the dusk cried out,
As one cries out when his pain is sorest.
Tall men were about, brown-limbed and
splendid,
Lion-thewed, and with dark eyes burning;
You held them all in your hand’s strong
palm,
And filled their veins with the fire of yearn-
ing-
Red spoil of the chase was heaped about
you—
Flesh and fish, and the fruits of sunny
And shadowed places, and scarlet flowers,
And nuts and berries and combs of honey.
And one would arise with a reddened axe-
blade,
Tall and strong, like a young Orion,
A dripping hide on his upheld arm,
And tell the tale of a new-slain lion.
And one with a red wreath on his brow..
Wild with passion and vain pursuing,
And hopeless fancy, would lift his voice _
And chant the joys of a greenwood wooing.
Then, all in a moment, the group, sound-
startled.
Axes grasping, would turn their faces.
And still their breath as they scanned the
dark
For great eyes gleaming from tangled places.
Far out in the darkness dread things
waited—
Leopard, lion and (folds coiled over
Some out-thrust limb) a thigh-thick snake —
To make red meat of the jungle rover.
Yet ever and ever, their eyes slow-turning,
Fierce and frustrate with love and longing,
Would seek the charm of your l-ound, brown
limbs
Till sleep fell on them, and dreams came
thronging.
You are, as you wei*e on that night, a
huntress
Proud, barbaric and wild, and yearning.
Behold my witness —that one fierce look;
It told of fires through the ages burning.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
One Night’s Tragedy.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AS soon as Kitty West saw her hus-
band that night she knew something
unusual, bizarre —something terrible,
her rapidly beating heart prompted—had
happened. It was not that he was in what
he had once euphemistically termed a post-
banquet condition. Xon West returned so
to their flat at irregular intervals; and his
wife, being wise in the ways of the man’s
world, always remained diplomatically non-
critrcal. Most likely she knew that was the
surest way to reduce him to a state of becom-
ing humility. But there had never been any-
thing about West’s comparatively mild alco-
holic excursions to cause such sudden dread
as now clutched coldly at the woman’s heart.
After tearing open tie door, West stood
swaying on the threshold, white-faced, regard-
ing her with a curious mingling of doubt,
shame and something else she could neither
quite place nor quitq understand. Kitty
rose from her cosy armchair, her book fall-
ing unnoticed to the carpet. She crossed the
room.
“Whatever has happened, dear?” she cried
as she stood before him.
Still he regarded her with that strange
mingling of expressions, as he leaned up
against the doorpost. W hen he spoke his
voice was not at all thick; only hoarse,
staccato, but with an accent in it that at
once puzzled her and increased her haunting
fear. He seemed to be concentrating en-
tirelv on the effort to express himself clearly.
Suddenly he lurched forward with swift
unsteadiness and seized his wife by the
shoulders. Staring down into her startled
face he jerked out in a tone little above a
whisper:
“Are you game?”
She writhed away from him, her lips
parted, one white hand twitching nervously
at her corsage. For a moment she felt sick
and faint. Her worst formless fears were to
take shape, then? Something terrible had
happened? , ,
“Am I game?” she faltered at last through
white dry lips. “What do you mean? What
have you done. Xon? Oh, don’t tell me
something dreadful has happened V"
“I say-—are you game?” As he repeated
the question in an even grayer tone than
before, the man nodded emphatically, as
though to give greater point to each porten-
tous word.
“Why, yes, dear—l suppose I’ll have to be
game as you call it. But, tell me quickly!
Don’t keep me in suspense like this! Here,
come in and sit down. You’re fearfully
tipsy, I’m afraid.”
She led him across the room to her so
recently-vacated armchair, into which he
half-fell, immediately slumping forward with
a tense, strained look that made her endure
a new agony of anxiety. There was some-
thing almost furtive about her movements
now as she recrossed the room and stealthily
closed the door. If some dread revelation
was to be made in that silent room the world
must not hear one word. With a little
shudder she caught herself locking the door.
Instinct warned her that the peril to her
man might be coming from without. She
noticed, too, that he kept his face turned
away from her now, as though he was afraid
to look directly at her.
“Ring up undertaker —right away.”
At these words Kitty Wesc dropped on her
knees beside her husband. The man stared
straight before him, as though his un-
naturally bright eyes would pierce through
the far wall of the flat and so beyond to some
frightful scene recently witnessed.
“Why?” she panted, reaching up and shak-
ing him by the shoulder. “What under-
taker? My God! You’ve not killed anyone
Lon?”
West looked at her for a moment, then
resumed his faraway stare. And somehow
the dainty little dinner for two waiting on
the table struck a pathetically incongruous
note.
“Don’t interrupt.” He still spoke in the
same mechanical, forced, jerky fashion.
“Ring up City 10,000 —you know —McCoy,
the undertaker.” A pause. Then, shaking
himself from the apathy into which he had
appeared to sink: “Was careful to see just
where ’twas. Couldn’t see much else, either.
New drink —plain dynamite.”
The woman rose and distractedly paced
the floor. She searched her brain for a
clue to what had happened, fearing all the
while that it was something which —begin-
ning in a brawl, perhaps—had passed to
some hideous end. She knew that there was
a wild, even rather outrt, strain in her hus-
band, though it was only at the rarest mo-
ments he gave indications of it, and then only
faint ones. Firmly pushing such disturbing
calculations into the back of her mind, once
more she stood over her husband, who had
relapsed into silence, and cried, as though
to drag the truth from him by sheer poignant
appeal:
“Hurry, for mercy’s sake, and tell me
what you’ve done!”
Her words, still more her attitude and
tone, reached even his clouded brain. Again
the man took up the rambling, maddeningly
circumspect tale that the woman’s fears
whispered had ended in tragedy.
“Was this way. Hot —and thirsty. Went
into King Wiili’m —for beer. Mob there.
Chap with some fancy drink. Dunno what
was in it. Deadly stuff.”
“Yes, yes! I know all about that. Go
on.”
He regarded her with a preternatural
stare. Again she caught that strange ex-
pression lurking somewhere, somehow, about
his face. And again, as he half-turned from
her, that cold hand clutched at her heart.
“You dunno anything—about it,” he re-
plied with a trace of resentful truculence.
She cast a despairful glance about her as
one seeking aid from the friendly, inanimate
commonplace objects around. Nothing so
comforting as the commonplace in times of
crisis. After a pause that seemed an age he
rambled on:
“Got talking about —war. Told ’em what
I thought—about America. Was a Yank
there. Got sore. Skited about what they’d
done. Same old stuff. I saw red. He got
flash about his Mayflower blood. Told him
didn’t know what it was, but must be some
white flower. Pulled off our coats.”
West, evidently re-living the scene, had
worked himself to a pitch of fury. Stagger-
ing to his feet, he tore off his jacket and
thrust out his bared foxearm, working his
fingers so that the powerful muscles i-ippled
beneath the beach-bronzed skin.
“See that arm? Hard as nails. Feel it.”
To humor him, she did so.
Suddenly he stood very erect and looked
dubiously at her.
“’Member —about the undertaker? Got to
ring up.”
“Oh, yes, Lon; I’ve remembered. You
stood up to fight. And then?”
The man fell back into the chair. It
seemed his recent effort had been too much
for him.
“He was —pretty good scrapper. I stopped
a few. But he hadn’t my chest.” West
thrust out his deep chest proudly. “Not
many chests like mine, Kit. Ought to be
proud of me.”
“I am, dear. But do go on. You fought?”
“And bonser fight, too! Lot of barrack-
ing for me. But they put us out.”
“And then?”
“Went on with it outside. Gii'l came out.
Told us to put our coats on —and go home.
Nice girl. Looked something like you.”
“Oh, what an idea —I’m very sure she
didn’t! Never mind that. What about the
undertaker’s? Why must I ring them up?”
“Don’t internxpt. We got separated.
Couldn’t find my tram. Dozens passing—
thousands —millions. All kinds of ways—
like shooting stars. But none of ’em mine
I was hanging on to railings outside
McCoy’s.. Tried to pick out my tram. All
went too fast —couldn’t read names. Couldn’t
cross street. By-’n’-bye got sleepy—shook
myself up a bit —and yawned—and yawned
and ”
“Yes, dear : yes r ”
West looked up. The tragic expi'ession
left his face. He opened his mouth in a
broad, though shamefaced grin. She stag-
gered back. She knew now what had caused
that strange difference in him.
“Your teeth, dear! Have you lost them?”
“Yes. Plate fell out and down grating at
undertaker’s. You ’member? McCoy’s.
Ring ’em now, old girl. Got to get ’em
back.”
LENA LOUISE DOUGLAS.


WINTER ECZEMA
Whole Body Covered with Watery Blisters.
Another Remarkable Zam-BukTriumph.
Xo more remarkable triumph over eczema in its worst form has been reported than the case of
Mrs. J. Richardson, of 9 Cowell Street, Fitzrov, Melbourne, who writes: “I suffered dreadfully from
weeping eczema in its worst form. The disease appeared in the form of little blisters, which spread
into one another until the whole of my body was red raw. The irritation was awful, and seemed to
get worse day by day. I was confined to bed for some time, and the burning torture then became
terrible.”
“Then I remembered hearing about Zam-Buk’s value for eczema, so began to use this Balm. Zam-
Buk was a blessed relief from the first moment it was applied. It was most cooling and soothing to my
fiery skin. Zam-Buk drew all the moisture out, and dried up the disease-stricken surface. The irrita-
tion ceased. It is wonderful how soon tire eczema was completely healed.
“I have also used Zam-Buk for my thumb when I severed the top joint of it whilst chopping wood.
The injury was dressed by a doctor, and I afterwards used Zam-Buk, which healed my thumb very quickly.
We have always found Zam-Buk splendid.”
The Antiseptic Healer of World-wide Renown.
See You
Get
Zam-Buk.
Refuse
All
Substi-
tutes.
SPRAINS AND
STIFF MUSCLES
AND JOINTS
CURED.
Mr. W. MePhun, of Taranaki Street, Wellington, N.Z., says: “Zam-
Buk for household use we have found splendid. For sprains, stiffness
in the joints and musoles, it is incomparable, and we have also used it
for 6unburn and other skin troubles. My son, after extreme physical
exercise, has been very stiff and sore, but Zam-Buk well rubbed in
always removes the stiffness. Through the fineness of her skin, my
daughter finds it susceptible to climatic influence. It develops a rash
when exposed to the wind, and this at times is troublesome. Zam-Buk
quickly draws all the inflammation out, and softens and heals all blemishes.”
9
every home needs a
p OT.
ITrs. J.
Richardson.
m
Mr
tITT^
y
m
s*>C
l
'll
o O
e »
r• s <
* o %
»A-.
SORE HANDS IN COLD WEATHER.
Mr. C. J. West, 141 Gillies Street, Adelaide,
says: “During the cold weather, while working
up country, my hands became affected by the coi .
Huge cracks appeared between the joints, and blood
would pour out and run down the handle ot tne
axe. I could not get anything to do permanent
good, for as soon as one lot healed another lot
appeared. However, after using Zam-Buk for a
short time my hands were completely healed.
ALWAYS USE ZAM-BUK
for cuts, bruises, scalds, burns, bad legs,
ulcers, itching, pimples, children’s sores, ao-
scesses, ringworm, scalp diseases,. sore * ee v
boils, sprains, eczema, piles, and injured ana
diseased conditions of the skin ge i , f rallJ j
From all Chemists and Stores at Is. 6d. ant
3s. 6d. per pot. Or post free from C. it.
Fulford (Aus.), Ftd., 39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
HEALING AND SOOTHING.
Two Badges.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
EOR a man who had fought in the
world’s war for over three years and
been married for nearly eleven days,
Mackersfield should have known better. For
you can no more audit your account with a
woman than with Fate, and he was a fool to
try. But she had red lips in a pale face, and
big eyes under heavy lids, and a mist of hair,
black as night, under a brand-new widow’s-
veil. And he was lonely, as too many Aus-
tralians are in London, and futile as a child
when it came to parrying a woman’s
weapons—as too many men are, the world
over. Besides, and any man will endorse
this, when the kit is half-packed across the
floor and the two cane chairs and the imita-
tion marble washstand, and your bride sits
half-dressed on the bed, cuddling her knees,
and the yellow fog of the London winter
morning is heavy in the room —that, I say,
is not the time to come on her widow’s
weeds, smoothed and folded away with soft
paper and scent, in the back of a drawer.
Mackersfield had married her partly
because that veil beckoned and asked naughty
questions before him all up a windy street,
and partly because it seemed difficult to get
back to tne Murray wheat-belt in a fort-
night, and partly because —well, a man must
spend his money on something.'
She was a very adequate Something, and
perhaps he had only himself to blame if,
round about the first few days, he had shown
a clumsy male desire to spend love on her,
too. This was not in the specifications, and
she could not meet the bill when presented.
Never mind exactly how it was presented.
There are some things a mhn does not talk
about, even in a story, and if Mackersfield
had wobbled between a kind of painful
chivalry and a general drunk ever since, this
di'd not appear to trouble her. She had the
air of having had her experiences, and being
ready for a good many more. And this in
itself is disquieting to a man who, however
big a fool he may have been, has a certain
large simplicity and a reverence for women
which is dying rather hard.
Mackersfield shook the veil out, and it
blew up, as soft stuff does, clinging about his
arms like a shroud. He tore it off with the
scared face of a man whose nerves have been
on edge for years, and she laughed.
“Here —look out what you’re doin’ with
my things,” she said.
Mackersfield held the crumpled chiffon out
with a hand that was not quite steady.
“You said you didn’t love him. What did
you keep this for?”
“Why shouldn’t I?”
The voice was cool, but the scarlet that
ran up to her kiss-curl and down to the
imitation lace of her gaudy camisole was a
give-away. too. He felt for the moment as
he once did when a clod of earth, driven up
by a shell, had caught him on the head. And
the next moment he felt as men do when
their conduct can only be explained as a
throw-back to more primitive ages. But he
stood still, for even war does not break down
several centuries of civilisation in a breath.
“My mistake. You kept it to hook Num-
ber Three With. Sorry I crushed it.”
“Go on! Oh, go on! Jor me head off.
You’re good at that.”
Her laugh was imitation, like her silk
stockings, like the trimming on her under-
wear, like her complexion—and herself.
“Yon can’t deny it.”
“All right. All right. Don c yell. I
s’pose you’re as likely to get it some day as
the last man, aren’t you? Girls hev to take
chances these days.”
Mackersfield was looking at her with a
long stare. He got a good deal into that
forty seconds’ staring, but even then it was
short to have told him all it did. Generally
he believed that he was at least a few of the
things his mother and his mates and his
officers said he was Now, looking into those
inscrutable bold eyes under the heavy lids, he
learned his valuation exactly. He was a
sergeant’s pay. He was an Australian
separation allowance. He was a pension
which works out at a good many imitation-
lace camisoles and things. He was so many
shillings better than the lasr man, who had
been a private, and so many worse than the
next, who might have a commission. Several
other overseas men have learned as much in
about the same time, but this did not help
Mackersfield at all. He had a rather small
sense of humor.
“I shouldn’t advise a second-loot. He has
to keep up appearances. A w.o. would pay
you best,” he said.
His face had grown ugly. The little short
hairs on the cheek-bones seemed to bristle
like a dog’s hairs, and his leathery skin
burned dark-red, and there were red flecks in
his eyes. He had spent several years in
killing men and striving to escape being
killed, and now, for the first time, he looked
it. And, predatory little crow though she
was, an instinct of fear drove her to her feet.
“You beast! That’s the way to talk to
your wife jest when you’re goin’ to leave her.
All you Australians are beasts. I orter
know. I've been fool enough to marry two
of ’em.”
“Oh, I thought the other poor devil nosed
at your heels all day?”
“So he did when he was drunk. I kep
him drunk all 1 could? He was a beast,
though.”
“He? My God! What are you? You
and those pals of yours? What about that
red-haired thing who’s been married .six
times in the last four years?”
“Five. And why shouldn’t lf her
feller goes west, what’s a girl to do?”
“You’ve solved, that—all you lot.” he said
grimly. He stood staring at her—at the
soft, warm pliancy and allure of her
girlishness. And behind her, sliding close
in the dull November fog, he saw
those bloody, awful trenches of Flan-
ders—smelt them—felt them fasten on
his senses with that hopeless, maddening
reality which beats any nightmare sheer off
the field. He made one step and caught her
close, covering her soft flesh with his hard
kisses. He did not explain—perhaps he did
not know —that if he had not done that he
would have killed her.
“For God’s sake. Ah....for God’s sake,”
he said, inarticulate in his great need. And
then, because of the greatness of that need,
and because she had had experience, they
made it up, somehow.
He went at last, with blinded eyes, and
the tin hat rattling slightly, as a billy
rattles, atop of his kit. It was his badge;
the interpretation of him. And she, in the
little room dull with fog, sat down again on
the tumbled bed and refolded and smoothed
the widow’s-veil.
For this was her badge—the interpretation
of herself and her many sisters in London
town to-day.
G. B. LANCASTER.
Joe.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Major was a silent worker. So
I was Joe. What the Major didn’t
know about stock, and about horses in
particular, wasn’t worth bothering about.
What Joe didn’t know about leadswinging,
kicking, biting and stealing rations would
not be noticed in a hurry.
Joe used to stand with his head-rope fast-
ened to the wire picket-rope, his chin
well down, close to the ground, and
watch between his forelegs. Drivers who
didn’t know Joe (and they were few
indeed) used to lead horses within range
of Joe’s long left. If Joe missed the
horse he generally got the driver. He didn’t
mind the language the driver unloaded on
him. Indeed, he seemed rather to like it.
As for the Major’s contemptuous looks
and satirical remarks, Joe would reach for
his solar plexus on sight with as little con-
cern as if lie had been the latest reinforce-
ment gunner on the strength.
If you patted the horse next to Joe and
Joe was awake (which was seldom) he
would ask you, in the usual horse’s manner,
to pat him, too. If you were wise you did
it, quick. If you were not in the know you
ignored the request, and as soon as you puc
the shovel out of reach Joe kicked you quietly
where a steamer wears its rudder, listening
patiently to your subsequent remarks and
biting a piece out of your biceps femoris as
you left. If you made a swing at his nose he
nipped back his head, and you hit the picket-
post, or he lowered the hard forehead to the
level of your fist, which was just as effective.
He was greedy, dirty, lazy, ill-mannered,
unreliable, lackadaisical and had a mouth as
hard as twenty-fours’ guard duty after Paris
leave.
Strange to say, Joe was a dinkum Aus-
tralian as far as courage went. He took
no more heed of battles than a staff-serge'ant
at Horseferry-road. To ride he was like a
bad dream on stilts. To drive he wanted
all France to himself and none of the load.
Ar.d to pack—ah me ! Simmo and I had
him, one night at Flers, on the Somme, with
a load of H.E. on his back, and when the
job didn’t suit him he picked out a spot which
Fritz was trying to shell and sat down in
a hole till we took off the burden. We
smoodged to him ; we cursed him; we kicked
him- we tried to frighten him. Then we
prayed to Providence. But Joe just settled
down for a quiet nap while Fritz tried to
send us to Valhalla with his guns. We took
off the load. Then Joe let us drag him out
and re-load him. When we had finally
manoeuvred him through the barrage of mud
and shell-fire to the guns it occurred to us
that if we had had sense enough to leave him
in the hole some officer would have thought
his legs broken and shot him. We would
have been rid of Joe for ever and ever. Then
we took turn about to curse Joe and our-
selves.
His appearance was the obstacle. lie
looked so sleek and good that the Vet.
Corps wouldn’t let us hand him in far a new
one. His reputation throughout the brigade
prevented a swap. We tried to lose him,
but there he was in the morning on the line,
his nose in the feed-bag of the sergeant’s
hack, and the hack standing away doing a
starve and licking the shin from which Joe
had kicked all the spare meat and skin. So
we shouldered Joe as a burden, and prayed
that he would “stop one” before long. And
we used him for practice when we felt like
cursing.
One day, when Mud was king and life
needed a tonic, a neat little chestnut trotted
into our lines with his head up and the bridle
dragging in the filth. We caught the little
chap, fed him, tied him up and began to
expect his rider. He came. At a rough
guess he had been rolled all the way from the
forward bombinsr-posts in the mud. lie was
an English officer disguised as one of Mick
Paul’s Domain dossers. He said to our
Major: “Ilowdydoo! By Gad, I’m doosed
sticky. Really! Isn’t it awful! Aili
was raiding alawng the road on that beastly
horse. The dem thing bolted. Could you
oblige by letting your servant help me get
clean again?”
Could the Major, with his eye on the chest-
nut and a long life of stock-dealing behind
him? Well, what do you think?
You know how a man would feel with two
officers’ mess-whiskies inside him, not to
mention the clean clothes and the lunch. In
a short while “By Gad” would have trusted
the Major with his accent and his eyeglass.
When he finally tore himself away from the
charming major, mounted on a quiet horse
that wouldn’t bolt, we were patting and
brushing the chestnut and stuffing him full
of feed. The Major had shown him a kind
Australian heart and a sleek, fat horse that
would not bolt under any circs., and the
spare men were grinning delightedly in the
dugout entrances. The muj man from Mug-
ville was rolling contented from side to s : de
on Joe’s shiny back, and everybody was satis-
fied. We had swapped Joe.
Now, when the drivers burn a candle to
their horse-joss, they don’t forget a word for
[ the Major who liberated them from .Toe.
A. E. YARRA.


m
\
m
■NKo' m
WESTINCHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
Queensland Agents - HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—S9 Queen Street, Melbourne.
UPTU R
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Go you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding onr Patent
AIK CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW: it is,
in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL.
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FTRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
Little Friends
of the Liver
They’re little hut they’re good: they’re gentle
and they're kind: they’re full of health that
leads to health and please be sure they’re
signed:—
Carter’s Little Liver Pills bear the
above signature.
Carters
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS*
Purely
Vegetable :
famous for
two genera-
tions.
Small PHI,
Small Dow,
Small PriM.
wmnm
<2,
WIGLEVS3S,
SPiEAPMfNT
THE PERFECT GUM
\\VT 'utlVV VVMO\i^
dpublemint
jLShewing gum r
i
*
I
1
i
s
i
S
I
FOR
&
$
M
as
&
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. G. ENO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
c>
A Brooks will
make a “ bounce”
impossible, the
Brooks compensating
springs will see to that
and only a
BROOKS
has these. Therefore whate'er may be
your choice of mount, never be influenced
to accept any other make of saddle than
this the world’s acknowledged best.
Aik Ajc-erl.
TjlOR OUR SICK AND WOUNDED
JL: BOYS.—When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Red Cross Book
DepOt. Wynyard Street, Sydney.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.


NGROVITE
LEATHER
HU
It Crips the Pulleys
and thus transmits maximum power to the
machinery. A profit-earner as well as a
power-saver—strong, durable, flexible—it is
the most economical belting procurable. Let
us help you with your transmission problems.
Mangrovite Belting Ltd.
(Charles Ludowici, Managing: Director),
49 York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney, N.S. W
Western Australia: Cibb3, Bright & Co., Perth
S’th Australia: John Reid & Sons Ltd., Adelaide
The Bight Bright Shafting
And at the Right Bright Shafting Prices. The Trade-mark, “An Eagle on
a Globe, stands for both.
Take the short cut to Satisfaction and Economy by purchasing your shafting
needs here while prices are in your favor.
Large stocks are available in. sizes from £ inch to 5 inches. Prompt
delivery given.
Let us quote on your next requirements.
Also write to Department “A” for Booklet, entitled
Hints to Practical users of Tool Steel.”
The Eagle & Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel,
379-381 Kent Street, Sydney.
„ I ®°. at Melbourne, Kalgoorlie, Fremantle, W.A.
Chas. A. Atkins & Co., Adelaide. Paul & Gray Ltd., Newcastle.
John Reid & Nephews,. Brisbane.
The Belt that is Sold on Service—
Not by the Yard.
That means service to the men who work
with them —no stretch — no crooked running.
It means that one man can turn out just
as much work as the man beside him. It
means that he can “go the limit” and get
first pay for his earning capacity.
Remember the name—■
Dick’s Batata Belting
(The Original and Genuine).
The Belting that guarantees least power waste.
Particulars from—-
JAMES HARD IK, & CO. LTO.i
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. Wynyard & York Sts., SYDNEY.
Phone 8456 (4 lines).
581-3 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
30 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Newcastle Agents—Paul & Cray Ltd.
Brisbane Agents—Queensland Machinery Co.,
Albert Street.
REFRIGERATING AND
ICE-MAKING MACHINERY.
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNlNG—which is pertinent to the times
—their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions they can be
relied upon to give ‘‘CONSISTENT SERVICE.” Their strong
construction, and thc great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
We study your requirements and design the layout of vour
plant, not only to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service.
All
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR LTD., Alliance Building, 97 Pitt Street, Sydney.
•Z'N ‘paupjonv pu-e
‘aucqsug ‘oujnoq l o w
im-od
»« puv
?
L.A. Rowboat Motors
MAGNETO TYPE.
Horse-power 2; Bore of Cylinder 2 5-8
inches; Stroke of Piston 2}& inches;
Weight 621 b.
A light, durable motor, made expressly for attach-
ing to fishing-boats, pleasure-boats, oanoes, etc.
Develops a speed from 6 to 8 miles per hour.
Special price, packed and delivered Free
on Boat or Bails, £25.
Correspondence invited.
D. 8 W. Chandler Pty. Ltd.,
Ironmongers and
Hardware Merchants,
Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
PUMPS -Good Pomps Only
401
We manufacture what is probably the most extensive and
varied line of Pumps listed by any Australian Manufacturer, and
can at the present time deliver all Standard Heavy Lines listed.
We illustrate Heavy Side Bolt or Well Pumps. These are made
with valves as shown, ball valves or special valves to any specifi-
cation; they are supplied in ail sizes, and are regularly listed
from 12in. to Bin. in diameter, by any stroke required. Other Pumps
manufactured include:—
BORE PUMPS, all sizes and strokes, any specification.
DOWNING’S Patent FOOLPROOF Artesian Deep Well
Cylinders.
BALL Valve ARTESIAN DEEP WELL Cylinders.
PUMP CATALOGUE ON REQUEST.
CONTRACT yS/ORtC—SendSpecifycations
ALDERDICE LTD., Warrnambool
TUDOR ACCUMULATORS.
ALL TYPES
TOR
-ALL. SIZES
Town Lighting', Country House Lighting', etc.
THE TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.
(Australasian Office)—
BOX: P.O. 2550. Cwlwtalla Chambers,
TELEPHONE: CITY 8931. CASTLEREAGH STREET SYDNEY.
A complete Electric Light Power
Plant, suitable for Suburban and
Country Houses, Stations, Stores
Hospitals, Schools of Arts, etc.
Qss
g'sarrskwa-.rt!
Runs en
Kerosene
Safe.
One Gallon of Kerosene
will light 32 Lamps for hours.
FULL PARTICULARS FROM SOLE AGENTS -
N.S.W. & Victoria: WARBURTON, PRANKI LTD.,
309 Kent Street, Sydney; 380 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: SMELLIE & CO. LTD., Brisbane.
A
m
£3OO profit in 12 weeks made
with a LISTER 2-STAND PLANT
The lister 2-stand shearing plant
is the most remarkable outfit ever offered to
Sheepmen. Compact and portable, it offers
all the efficiency, smooth running and reliability
of a big Avoolshed plant.
One of the hundreds of Lister 2-Stand Plant
users is Mr. Fergus Leonard, Combaning Siding,
Temora, N.S.W. He says: We have shorn 15,999 •
sheep during the last 12 weeks, and had not the
slightest trouble either with the engine or the
shearing machines. We used less than 13 eases
of kerosene in shearing 15,000 sheep! Think of
it! One-fifth of a penny per sheep shorn.
Write for booklet to any of the following:—
Chief Agents: DANGAR, GEDYE & CO. ETD.
9-13 Young Street, Circular Quay, SYDNEY.
SUB-AGENTS: Winchcombe, Carson Etd., 99 Eagle Street, Brisbane; Malloch Bros., 53-54 William Street Perth*
A. G. Webster & Sons, Ltd., Hobart. ’ '
GAFFY Patent PRUNERS
“ABBOTT” Australian FILTERS
Cut on both Jaws—in half the
time and do not bruise the bark
816
Post Free.
SHEFFIELD MAKE.
Write for one—pruning time is coming. Sole Suppliers—
m
AH 31
J/bfc
i
render drinking water not only clear but
GERM FREE,
and are thus an absolute preventive
AGAINST TYPHOID FEVER.
Types for every service-
including Large Service
Industrial, for Factories.
On Sale by all Good Stores .
Made by
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., 350 George Street, Sydney.
