

3P3ES^fISTAR 3 S —The Spirit of JoviaUty.
R. <3r. WATKINS & CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 KervC Street, Sydney,
Mining 1 and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisite s,
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available
THE “AUSTRALIAN REVIEW”
says:—
The Company is very well
managed, and the name is quite
a household word in Sydney. Its
reputation is excellent, and,
although the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a vampire, the
charge cannot be laid at the doors
of the N.S'.W. Mont de Piete I).
and I. Co. Limited.
On all Classes of Security.
TRADE BILLS DISCOUNTED.
Easy Terms and Lowest Interest.
NSWM3NT DE PIETE-D&I-C?I7P
HEAD OFFICER* CASTLEREAGHST SYDNEY 74.
Next to “Dally Telegraph” New Building.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
And at
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Telephone: City 9325.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
CHROMOL
(Trade 21 ark)
The Stifer Driving Belt.
ThPi Wtwst. minina and smelt-
rU' W, <'VKr6.i, '■ : b
THE BEST !
n
A
\f€r.
lYn
ri
nea
w
re
dJ
an
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors us being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HANSENS
now , ■ -
****!? ts *
One of iiHtsd* Xf-'b'ets 4is
ta«<s» uenefleiarn when tnkwt 'Stilly &ffa
s.v.,'.a:s.. /^jjl
•Awarded JBO Imn.:* -•«..,*»
%
the
SftiSsp£t-;si z\ i>li OP’>s : : ; ?< '. 'iOf)!v . j 4 ,i . i
T*a> »»smey ive'. V*f, -<■ ' ;•,. .<«,sr
mill? rfpffi
>• ; .rf
...
,■ r.
ms.
W
iii-:
i «’■&
■•V"v.
? **s
U*Bi
;¥^iU
A new anti revised edition of the
“Referee” is now available„
and will be sent post free on
application to
LYSAGHTS LIMITED
8 Spring Street, SYDNEY .
the recognised standard
of quality throughout
the Commonwealth.
WHITE HORSE Whisky
ORME, REIGWIN CSh CO. LTD., SYDNEY
-Sole Agents
SEYON Electric Lamps Give Longer SERVICE
SEYON LAMPS reduce lighting expenses, as they have a very low current
consumption, combined with high efficiency. Buy electric lamps with a
known reputation for durability. SEYON LAMPS are the most economical
lor Homes, and particularly for Factories, Mines, Municipal Systems
and all places where lights are subjected to endless vibration and shocks.
They are made specially for extra-hard service on indoor and outdoor
lighting and give a steady, reliable white light. Made in Drawn Wire
Pattern for Home, Office and Shop service, and Half Watt type for Mines
Municipal Systems, !- actories and Stores. Stock sizes 10 to 300 Candle-
power. Send for Price Lists and Pull Particulars to
NOYES BROS. (Sydney) Ltd., 115 Clarence Street. Sydney.
GIVE YOUR OWN
COUNTRY A SHOW!
TRY OPAIjOID tooth paste.
AUSTRAIiIA'S BEST.
The Bulletin
YoL 40.—N0. 2031.]
[Thursday, January 16, 1919.
WAR-TIME PRICE. Bd.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia> for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


BEFORE THE MIRROR
By “JEANNETTE.”
These are, undoubtedly, days of exceptional nervous strain for one and
all of us. Anxiety, with its beauty-destroying influence, is casting its shadow
over the lives of many of us women, and while perhaps a few —the more
stoical among us —can avoid worrying over past and prospective events, we
may all, with a little care and forethought, succeed in preventing the results
of worry from being noticeable in our appearance. To these fortunate
few this little chat will, however, be as interesting and instructive as to
those who stand in real need of help in toilet matters, and may be the
means of bringing to their notice some hitherto unknown method of retain-
ing or regaining that beauty of face and figure which is the birthright of
every woman. Some of the ingredients mentioned below are, at present, not
generally known to the public, but any good chemist will usually be found to
have a small quantity in stock.
Wrinkles, and How to Remove them.—Worry,
late hours or the passing of old Father Time
may cause those ugly little lines which so
detract from the freshness and charm of a
woman’s face; but the cure is always the
same. Feed the tissues beneath the skin, and
massage them with a reliable skin food, which,
while nourishing the fatty tissues, will not
coarsen the skin nor grow hairs upon the
face, as so many inferior creams do. lo
remove the wrinkles, bathe the face with hot
water, wipe it dry, then, while it is still
warm, smear a little mercolized wax over the
whole face, carrying it well down on the neck,
and, with the tips of the fingers, rub it gently
into the pores, working in an upward and
outward direction. Wipe off any superfluous
wax, leaving a little on the skin all night.
In the morning wash off with warm water
and Pilenta soap. The use of the wax not
only feeds the skin, but removes the dead
outer cuticle, giving the fresh young skin
beneath an opportunity to breathe and show
itself.
Beautiful Hair —How to Shampoo.—Whether
the hair is luxuriant and glossy, or thin and
lanky, depends very largely upon the care
bestowed upon it. To keep the hair in good
condition it should be shampooed once in
every two or three weeks. Before shampooing,
massage a little pure olive oil or almond oil
into the scalp, then mix one teaspoonful of
stallax granules in a cup of hot water, fill a
basin with warm water, into which the ends
of the hair can fall, and shampoo the stallax
mixture iuto the scalp in the usual way.
Pdnse and dry by fanning with a palm fan, or
in the open air, if the weather permits. Should
the hair be naturally .very greasy, the oil
massage should be omitted. Stallax can be
bought at any chemist’s in quarter-pound
sealed packages; it keeps indefinitely, and one
package contains sufficient for 25 or 3d
shampoos,
A Greasy Skin and Blackheads.— Blackheads
are absolutely fa'tal to beauty, for they give a
coarse, dirty look to the face which no cos-
metics can ever hide. The way to remove
blackheads quickly and effectively has only
recently been discovered. For many years those
who suffered in this way were restricted in
their diet, denied sweets and had to suffer
other privations. Modern science has, how-
ever, provided a simple, effective and quick
remedy. Dissolve one stymol tablet in a
glass of hot water, and when the effervescence
has subsided, dip a small, soft sponge into the
liquid and bathe the face. Leave for a few
minutes, then dry with a towel, and the black-
heads will come off. For a greasy skin bathe
the face three times a week with stymol and
spray with cold water every morning, using a
vulcanite throat spray.
To Improve the Eyebrows and Eyelashes.—
Long, curling eyelashes make the most in
different eyes look attractive, and while no
one can alter the color, shape or size of the
eyes, all may possess luxuriant eyelashes and
well-shaped eyebrows. To increase the growth
of the eyelashes rub a little mcnnaline into
the roots very gently every night. Mermnliue
is a perfectly harmless and delicate pomade-
like substance which may be obtained at any
chemist’s. For the eyebrows smear a little of
the mennaline on a small soft brush, and
brush into the eyebrows in a straight or
arched direction, according to how you wish
them to grow. A month’s treatment should
see a marked improvement.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
CAIRO—No, I am not surprised at hearing
from a reader so far away, as I get letters
from every part of the world. I expect it is
the heat that has caused you to put on weight
so rapidly, and can quite understand how
much it adds to your age. Get a small quan-
tity of clynol berries and eat one after each
meal They will permanently reduce your
weight, are quite harmless, and you need
make no alteration in your diet.
QUEEN BESS.—Thirty is far too young to
have grey hairs, and you must not allow the
trouble to increase. Get two ounces of tamma-
lite. mix it with three ounces of bay rum, and
apply to the hair with a small, soft sponge.
This will restore the grey and fading hair to
its original color.
EMMELINE.—For your mliddy-looking skin
get a tin of mercolised Wax and rub a little
well into tlie face and neck every night. Leave
on till morning, then wash off, using Pilenta
soap and warm water. This will remove the
dead outer skin and leave the complexion soft,
fresh and smooth.
JESSIE.—To remove the hairs from the lip
and chin get an ounce of powdered pheminol
and use as directed. Then apply tekko paste
several times daily for some weeks. This com-
bined treatment will permanently remove all
trace of hair from your face.
FRECKLED LASS.—To prevent the freckles
from appearing use a eleminite lotion. Get an
ounce of eleminite and mix it with four ounces
of warm water, allow to cool, then dab over
the face. This will not only protect the skin
from sunburn and freckles, but will give it a
dainty fresh look far superior to the bloom
imparted by the finest powder. [3
//
/ ~— /r/f^
Soft as a Peach
/•'
«.C
# and fragrant at a f lower % it 0 #
C imparts a deiicate bloom to the Complexion «^ 4
TETLOWS
FACE POWDER
i Sold to Fto# Tint*.— ,
V White. Creep. Pink. Flesh end •,
IV !>y all Starts, Chemittt and Ptrhuturt. j
i *. Pee »*_a
V tNGLISe W PRIC* .0* *T
box rt I
1
i
t
Wholesale Disfrioulinfj A^enls:-?-
Messrs. ELLIOTT BIIOS-, LTD.,
Sydney.
Messrs. WASHINGTON H. SOUL,
PATTINSON & CO., Sydney.
Messrs. ANTHONY HORDERN AND
SONS LTD., Sydney.
THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.,
Sydney.
LONDON WHOLESALE ASENrs:
HENRY C. QUELCH & CO*
4 & 5. Ludg&te Sq- London Eng.
If any illustration appearing in uJiie
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will nuote von price for k.
rQUEENSLAND^v
THE KEY TO
PROSPERITY.
QUEENSLA>^—
opens the door to
prosperity lor those
, requiring land
Particulars ol the
I millions ol acres ol
I Crown Land
f now available will be
sent you at once,
also Booklets on the
Stale's resources—
FREE
ftamt ———
Address ■
Queensland Govenuaeit
Uußiseace tad Towns! Bwrats
BRISBANE
g
3EB
1
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Beading Room at the Offices, 115 High llol-
born. London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use tha
telephone, and obtain information without
oh nr"°.
MUSTDIE.
non poisonous revocß.
THE6REST IWfOOBTKOTL
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
( Flies.
1 fleas.
1 Bugs.
\MmquitoQ
uu.
-92
“MUvSTDIE”
POWDER must not be mistake!} for insecticide
or common insect powders, some of which are sold
under fancy names, for “MUST DIE” contains
an ingredient particularly fatal to that common
house pest aptly termed “The Typhoid Fly.”
FREE SAMPLE.
Write to “Mustdie,” Dept. H, Box 1520
G.P.0., Sydney* for a trial tin, forwarded post free;
or send 9d. in stamps for a full-siae tin.
“MUSTDIE” is sold everywhere by Chemists, Grocers, Storekeepers.
9d. per tin. [4
The Red Page
WIDE SPACES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When niv last long-beer has vanished and the truth
is left unsaid ;
When each sordid care is banished from my chair
and from my bed,
Audi tf.y common people sadly murmur: “’Arry
Lawson dead,”
When the man I was denounces all the things that
I was not,
When the true souls stand like granite, while the
souls of liars roi—
When the quids 1 gave are counted, and the trays
I cadged ' forgot;
Shall my spirit see the country that it wrote for
once again?
Shall it see the old selections, and the common street
ar.d lane?
Shall it nass across the Black Soil and across the
Red Soil Plain ?
Shall it see the gaunt Bushwoman “slave until she’*
fit to drop,”
For the distant trip to Sydney, all depending on the
crop ?
Or the twinkling legs of kiddies, running to the
lollie-shop?
Shall my spirit see the failures battling west and
fighting here?
Shall it see the darkened shanty, or the bar-
room dull and drear?
Shall it whisper to the landlord to give Bummer
Smith a beer?
Will they let me out t>f Heaven, or Valhalla, on my
own—
Or the Social Halls of Hades (where I shall not be
alone)
Just to bring a breath of comfort to the hells that
I have known?
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.
War Behind the Lines
In ancient wars —wars down to the tail-
end of last century—nobody cared much
what the press said. It wasn’t the people who
made wars ; and the people had little say in
stopping them. Kitchener introduced us to
a new idea. To him, a soldier and nothing
much else, the press was just a damned
nuisance. War-correspondents, who had
come to be held in honor, he simply held in
check; and a system of hard censoring was
introduced.
The great war soon got beyond the
soldiers. This was an affair of nations, not
merely of armies. So, as the nations had to
be organised, the press had to be used. And
more than organised ; nations had sometimes
—as in the case of the United States —to
be captured. Propaganda thus became hardly
second in importance to actual warfare.
On tlfe terrific struggle to capture the
U.S.A. both sides spent millions. The Ger-
mans strove to persuade Americans that this
was no business of theirs; and for 18 months
they succeeded. It was very nearly two
years after the war started that President
Wilson publicly declared that lie didn't know
what the war was all about, and would be
greatly obliged if somebody would tell him.
The Allies were more directly conceimed to
tell the public—the hundred millions of very
mixed people who are the President’s mas-
ters. To them the Allies poured out, not
arguments as to the things that caused the
war. but instances of how Germany was
fighting so that these people might know the
manner of men the Germans were. That, as
every good journalist knows, counted for far
more than academic dissertations upon the
rights of nations, small or great.
How and by whom that campaign of
enlightenment was conducted cannot, of
course, be told here. But there is in N’York
what used to be camouflaged as the British
Pictorial Bureau, which probably knows a
good deal about it. An Oxford
protege of A. J. Balfoups—-and pro-
there ; with him
were other English professors, an English
novelist or two, and a miscellaneous lot of
writers and business men. To do President
Wilson justice, there is no doubt that, as
the Huns disclosed themselves, he became
sincerely anxious that the tide should run
so strongly that he might be justified in
taking prompt and decisive action; hence, for
12 months before the U.S.A. entered the war,
the Allied propagandists in the U.S.A. had
steadily increasing support from official
quarters at Washington. '
The British propaganda work was divided
into three sections—propaganda in (1)
enemy countries, (2) allied and friendly
countries, and (3) at home. Ministers were
appointed to superintend each of these fre-
quently overlapping activities. Northcliffe
—a man of tremendous driving force —had
charge of the work in enemy countries.
Jeaverbrook, the son of a Canadian parson,
who had also become a London newspaper
proprietor, was Minister of Information. In
the offices of these propagandists you might
find men like Newbolt, the poet; Mase-
field ; Arnold Bennett; lan Hay, who
wrote “The First Hundred Thousand,”
and who, by the way, promises to come to
Australia very soon ; Conan Doyle; Mason,
the novelist; and Evelyn Wrench, one of the
Bound Table’s young men, besides dozens
who had been taken out of khaki to do this
special and often delicate job—men of all
ranks from generals to sergeants; one found
there, for instance, a major who had been
in private life a lawyer in Winnipeg; a
colonel who had been Chief of S. African
Mounted Police; and a sergeant who had
been a journalist in the backblocks of N. S.
Wales,
Broadly, their work was twofold—to
hearten the Allies and to demoralise the
enemy. Often it was hoped to hit the two
targets with the one bullet. For instance,
Beaverbrook got the idea of inviting to
Europe representative journalists from every
part of the Empire and the United States,
with the object, first, of whooping up the
spirits of the British people and then of con-
vincing the Germans that the “Dominions”
and the U.S.A. were determined to see the
business through. For three years the Ger-
man people had been sustained on lying pro-
mises that the Allies were crumbling, that
the British “colonies” were full up of the
war (Northcliffe’s secret and other agents
were kept busy for months explaining away
the results- of the Australian Conscription
votes), and, later on, that, though the U.S.A.
were nominally in the war, there was no
earnestness in their effort, no sting in their
punch. The time came when the Hun no
longer believed that the Allies were on the
point of dissolution and the American help
a myth; and when that happened the great
tragedy was really over.
Incidentally, not the least of the work of
the propaganda departments has been to
counteract insidious Hun efforts to make
trouble between the Allies. When, for in-
stance, direct attacks upon the Allies were
no longer tolerated on the part of German
agents in the United States, the Hearst and
other papers began to magnify France at the
expense of Britain. Millions fell into this
trap. Even the American Y.M.C.A. pub-
lished, and for a time put into the hands of
every Sammy who sailed for Europe, a pam-
phlet titled “France, Our Ally.” It was not
openly an attack upon Britain; but no good
American could accept its teachings and
regard Britain as a possible friend of the
great Republic.
P.X.
Mary Gilmore
It is many years since the last collected
volume of Mary Gilmore’s verse charmed
Australian readers. Ilers was a new voice,
a voice full of feeling and sympathy, getting
very close to the heart-song of the world.
The Commonwealth has produced no other
singer quite like her; and her new volume,
“The Passionate Heart,” will make an appeal
to circles of readers far beyond the hounds
of the literary coteries. There is a stir of
real humanity in all that Mary Gilmore
does; and always she warms into enthusiasm
for the great things hidden deep down under
the rags of poverty and misfortune. If her
note is not always clear or very strongly
sustained, it is at any rate different from
that of any other singer and it comes straight
from the heart of one who has known and
suffered and triumphed.
Mary Gilmore walks far from the orthodox
metrical track of the master singers. While
she never quite descends to the chopped prose
misnamed “free verse,” there is an irregu-
larity about much of her work which makes
it less memorable than it might otherwise be.
Very frequently, through this irregularity,
she achieves striking and beautiful results;
sometimes she comes down from the heights
with an apparent fall which is in reality
more attractive than the sustained flight;
but the general effect is, from the merely
metrical point of view, so wild and untamed
that it makes difficult reading.
But this singer’s place is not among the
delicate etchers of the sonnet or the makers
of the old lace that drapes the Spenserian
stanza. Her desire is often to arrest and
startle, to shout large memorable words of
wisdom in the ear; and it is more as the
ancient prophetess that she stands than as
the modern versifier of the book-club and
magazine. She has real things to say; and
she says them with a vigor which, as always
in the case of the prophet, has a tendency to
become a little incoherent through stress of
utterance. But when her trumpet-blast lias
blown itself out she comes back to the sim-
plicities of life very sweetly, and sits down
by the fireside with the old men and the old
women or watches the children play their
noisy games in the dust of the street with a
heart as young as theirs.
“The Passionate Heart” is a good book
and one to treasure. It must be taken as a
whole; for Mary Gilmore is not one easily
represented by quotation. Still, there is
very much that is compelling. This, for
instance, from - “Memorial”
Even the old, long roads will remember
“Hither came They!’’
And the rain .shallriui—-’- ,
And the cne luts hke tears;
Cj.,- mm shine on them all the years,
—“These are the roads they trod’’—
They who are away with God!
Again, from “Two Songs of the Grass”:—
The grass is a warrior.
With his sword, with his spear,
He marches through the world
At the springing of the year.
His border is the mountain,
The ocean runs beside.
He makes the winds his ministers
To bear h.is pennons wide.
Here is a word of our own fighting soldiers
in “The King”:—
The King! The King! The Anzae in his pride
Adown the endless ages shall he ride, *
Upon his pennons faithful set
Names that the world may not forget.
Flanders and France: O God, what flame
Leaps at the naming of a name!
0 God, what kindling echoes ring
When all men stand as at the King!
Not great poetry this, perhaps, but good,
resonant, passionate verse. Here is a typical
poem that wins success from the very verge
of metrical failure :
THE WOMAN.
1 am not very patient,
Yet patient 1 must be.
With him beside my pillow,
And the babe upon my knee.
I am not very patient ;
I would have wings to fly;
Yet am I tied to cradles
Until the day I die.
One is a rocking cradle
(Sleep babe, nor heed alarms!)
But for the other baby
The cradle of my arms.
Strange that I was given
Thoughts that soar to Heaven,
Yet must I sit and keep
Children in their sleep!
Giving in much commonplace phrasing, a
bushel of bad rhymes, an insecurity and
irregularity of step which makes the road
difficult for a marching companion, there re-
mains over and above in Mary Gilmore’s
work so much to be thankful for that all the
rest is forgotten. (The Passionate Heart by
Mary Gilmore, Angus and Robertson, Syd-
ney.)
India in Transition
His Highness the Aga Khan writes
another of the mediocre books so plen-
tifully issued nowadays by Indians about
Indian affairs. It is above the average
in the sense that it is a two-storey book
standing out above a mass of one-storey liter-
ature. but it isn’t a sky-scraper. The really
intelligent Indian writer is a painstaking
<Continued on page 26.)


2
aa&
214
M
a
01.14
552
Dll5
209 A
P
|ppn
r> i
r*
9* to
210 A
Anthony
for Re-
jDOOTS and a> 1 1 QDS that wean we Li ana
look well are the class of footwear that are
demanded these days. A nthony Horderns Boot
Departments havefor many years supplied boots and
!'shoes that fill these requirements , and at pi'ices that ,
quality considered , cannot be equalled elsewhere .
11 jIJ jj j [j J J
>sui!!l!!
03
032
We pay carriage on
Footwear, Fashion
Goods, Family
Drapery, Men’s
Wear, Cutlery,
Jewellery and Fine
Art to any part of
New South Wales;
on Inter = State
orders to the nearest
port.
033
034
VALUE IN
SHOES
No. 213.—Ladies’ Smart White Nubuck
Whole-goloshed Lace Shoes, extended
last, pump soles, Cuban Louis heels. Ciool and
comfortable 39/6
No. 214. —Ladies’ Dainty Patent Colt
Whole-goloshed Lace Shoes, extended
last, welted soles, leather Cuban heels—
-26/6, 35/-, 47/6
No. Dll4. —-Ladies’ Smart Patent Colt
Whole-goloshed Oxford Lace Shoes,
extended last, Black Suede tops, welted soles,
leather Cuban heels 57/6
No. Dlls.—Ladies’ Patent Colt Court
Walking Shoes, medium toes, Louis heels,
pump soles. Acme of comfort . . .... 27/6
No. 209 A Smart Battleship
Grey Glace Kid Lace Shoes, medium
toes, Cuban Louis heels, pump soles. Com-
fortable and elegant 52/61
No. 21OA.—Ladies’ Fashionable Patent
Colt Court Shoes, self buckle, medium
toes, Louis heels, pump soles. Distinctive in
design 35/-
No. 031. —Ladies’ Patent Colt Court
Shoes, tongue and fancy stitching, pump soles,
Louis heels. Elegance and Refinement are
featured in these shoes 357-
No. 032.—Ladies’ Patent Colt Court
Shoes, large tongue and fancy side buckles,
medium toes, pump soles, Cuban Louis heels.
Made on the right last for comfort .... 27/6
No. 033.—Ladies’ Patent Colt Court
Shoes, • grey Suede collar, tongue and buckle,
medium toes, pump soles, celluloid-covered
Cuban Heels. Nice for Race Wear.... 28/6
No. 034.—Ladies’ Patent Colt Court
Shoes, fancy tongue and buckle, medium toes,
pump soles, Cuban Louis heels, Smart Style—
-27/6
ECONOMY IN MEN’S BOOTS.
No. 205.—Glace Kid Lace Boots, whole
golosh, welted soles, kid lining, best make
throughout, highest-grade quality, in* full and
half sizes 33/6
No. 206.—Glace Kid Lace Boots, whole
golosh, welted soles, latest straight last, easy
fitting 29/6
Similar Boot, with patent toe-cap 29/6
No. 230.—Glace Kid Derby Lace Boots,
good-fitting last, neat shapes, made from best
selected leather, welted soles—
-18/9, 20/6, 25/-, 28/6
No. 231. —Tan Willow Calf Balmorals,
solid leather welted soles and heels, good round
toe 23/6, 26/6, 27/6
No. 207.—80 x Calf Derby Dace Boots,
welted soles, medium high toes, good fitting—
-22/6
No. 208.—Glace Kid Lace Boots, whole
golosh, welted soles, good quality, made on latest
French last 29/6
MIMI
3
f ■ --.aa
,/} .<4 « */
« 0
! *>,
:
TTTT
i
ANTHONY HORDERN ZL SONS,L™
On]y Universal Providers.
New Palace Emporium,
4f/UV E'^
Brookfield Hi 11:«
S^d
ney


In War or Peace, the service
of Oxy- Acetylene is SAVING
'“THE story of the service which Oxy-Acetylene Welding
I and Cutting rendered to the Allies will probably never
be fully known because of the gigantic nature of its operations in every section of
in the Field used it continuously for making rapid repairs to all metal equipment
and for removing the debris of blown-up bridges, etc. In the Shipyards, Munition Plants and
Ai craft Factories everywhere OXY-ACETYLENE was in continuous use for cutting and joining
metal The veil now being lifted from the operations of the Navy shows that m the wonderful
work done by the Salvage Units of every Navy, the OXY- ACETYLENE Process gave wonderful
service in removing debris from torpedoed steamers preparatory to them being docked, and alter-
wards in the dockyards in cutting broken sections away. . » « ,1 nY v
Speed and Efficiency in the Cutting and Joining of all metals is the function of die OX -
ACETYLENE PROCESS, and great as its war service has been, the service which it renders m
neace is even greater. It has shown the engineering world how to keep machinery in operation by
speedy repairs to all broken parts composed of Cast and Wrought-!ron, Mild Steel, Brass, Copper
Aluminium and Gumnetal. Don’t buy new parts. If yon can t use a complete outfit, go to the
nearest Oxy-Acetylene Welder and save time and money. ~ , •
THE FINEST SHEET-METAL W.ARE in the world is iOxy-Acetylene welded, which is
miles ahead of seaming and riveting. ' j . ~ V ~_ <■:
STEEL AND IRON WORKS use the process continuously tor keeping the outlets ol tnrnaces
free, and also for every class of repair work. FOUNDRIES use OXY- fojr clean-
If «good.ENGINEERS, GARAGES AND LARGE FAO-
mg up casnngs ana mamng uuu T , ~ . , r- QT ., r QTl p
TORIES use the ONY-ACETYLENE PROCESS for making rapid repairs to machinery and
automobiles, and keep thousands of pounds’ worth of good machinery parts off the scrap-heap, m
addition to saving days of delay by the rapid repairs. , ,
FARMERS find the OXY-ACETYLENE PROCESS of immeasurable benefit when parts break
in implements. There are operators in every part of Australia ready for service m repairing
Agricultural Machinery and Tools. HOUSEHOLDERS can save all kinds of metal utensils and
tools from the rubbish-heap by taking them to the nearest OXY-ACETYLENE WELDER.
There is no substitute for OXY-ACETYLENE WELDING, which is a perfect fusion of the
parts to he joined, and must not be confused with brazing or any other process You cant buy an
OXY-ACETYLENE OUTFIT unless your work warrants it. If it doesn’t, we direct
you to the nearest operator. Mark the nature of your work on the slip below, cut out and mail to
Our advice is at your disposal freely.
u:;
sr
c=r
i
H»re is a simnle break in a cast-iron gear-
wheel, easily repaired. There are hundreds
of parts like this thrown on the scrapheap
and new parts bought. Don’t buy new parts;
write to us.
Twin cylinder of motor with jacket burst
and ear broken out of flange. Made strong
as new for a trifle compared with the cost of
a new cylinder. All parts of motors can
be repaired by the Oxy-Acetylene process, and
most garages have an outfit.
Frac-ure repa red hare
Share
welded
and point
built up
There are operators in every part of Australia read}
to save monev for farmers. Take all your repair
troubles to him; if you don’t know where he is we
will tell you.
Foundries everywhere use Oxy-Acetylene for
removing risers and making bad castings
good. The six risers on this 22001 b. easting
were removed in 20 minutes with an Oxy-
Aeetylene Cutting Blowpipe.
Put a cross against the class of work you are inter-
ested in and mail the slip to us.
Engineer
Motor Garage
Foundry
Mine or Smelter
Ship Yard
Sheet Metal Work
Factory
Farmer
Blacksmith
Householder
Sheet-metal work of any size and class
made with the Oxy-Acetvlene A\elaing
Blowpipe is better and more reliable
than riveting or seaming. This tank
holds 100 tons of oil and was made
throughout bv the Oxy-Acetylene process.
Don’t Buy New Parts of Machinery before writing to us.
TheCommonuie a Ith
Oxygen C« LW
Pioneers of the Oxygen Industry in Australia
. Fou St. Balmain. NS-W
AGENTS:— Fyvie & Stewart, 362 Collins St,., Melbourne. Alex. Ingram & Co., Wyatt SW. Adelaide.. Perth!
121 TSasle St , Brisbane. Harrison Bros. & Co. Ltd., 20 Patterson St., Launceston. Geo. AVills & Co. Ltd., Murray. &«<■*
1 s ’ Brown & Joske. Suva. Fiii. r.


One‘BEST’Light
Gives more Light than
Six Electric Lights, or Ten
Kerosene Lamps or One
Hundred Candles.
Burns Air Gas
A beautiful, pure white, steady,
safe light. No Hick! No Urease!
No Smoke! No Odor! Hang or Set
it anywhere. Over 100 Styles.
These Lamps being Portable
they require no fitting.
Let us post you a
Best Light
Wall Lamp
complete, which gives 100-candle power light
for 42/6 Post Free
Send for Catalogue No. 821, which also
contains Hollow Wire System of Lighting
BRANDT BROS. LTD.
Air-Gas Engineers
236 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
A\Y
mil
B
SAUCE
from England
has a new and delicious
flavour, obtained by blend-
ing the choicest
oriental fruits and
spices with Pure
Malt Vinegar.
Wouldn't it
be worth
your while
to try a
bottle right
away ?
mm
/ /T'/ a//nVh niiMtiiiiinii
' /Mm
MADE FROM LEMONS ONLY
a. 0 BROOKE’S,, I
r &mofr
Tke Best Lemon
THE GREAT BRITISH
RHEUMATIC REMEDY.
GOUT
AND RHEUMATIC PILLS
The Famous Medicine that relieves
RHEUMATISM, GOUT, LUMBAGO, SCIATICA,
The Great Discovery of the Age.
Purely Vegetable. Sure and Safe.
All Drug Stores. English price, 1/3 and 3/-.
Prout & Co., 229, Strand, London.
% wx
mm
m
m
'//A.
m
.
mm
ALNUT
RorOTWife m
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1549.
The Largest and Most Successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
Directors: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman; Hon. R. J.
Black, M.L.C. ; Hon. Sir .las. Burns, K.C.M.G., M.L.C.; Adrian Knox, Esq., K.C., C.M.G.; Sir Samuel
Hordern; Richard Teeee, Esq.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., Actuary.
Accumulated Funds, £38,000,000.
H. \V. APPERLY, General Manager.
Annual Income, £5,500,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Although nearly £1.000,000 was paid during 1917 in war claims alone, the Cash Bonus divided for tha
year 1917, including Interim Bonuses, was £585,397. Total Bonuses distributed, £22,138,000.
The 'Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards.
.>/?> V"S£, -rz
<■ ■-., " ;-■—- /i ■ •;■ '■-;
- C l '
■,r V
" f
J
o
4:
t.
Clydesdale Lorries are Built from the User’s Standpoint
The terrible gruelling given motor
lorries in the War Zone demonstrated
weaknesses in the construction of' all
motor-vehicles which were never brought
out before from the user’s standpoint.
The Clydesdale was especially con-
structed to remedy these weaknesses.
Such inbuilt Stamina, combined with
exclusive features for accessibility, result
in the finished Clydesdale product.
These benefits are cumulative to Clydes-
dale users.
Clydesdale Motor Lorries are made iu
capacities of 1| to 6 tons.
Special Clydesdale Features.
Krebs Automatic Controller maintains
constant engine speeds.
Separate unit four-speed gear-box.
Worm-drive axle.
Straight Copper Tube Radiator.
Massive frame with deep centre section.
Chj&esbale
MOTOR
LORRIES;
11. D. VAN BRUNT, Factory Representative,
P.O, Box 2093, Sydney, AUSTRALIA.
New South Wales Distributor:
E. HARDY-JOHNSTON,
350 Kent Street,
SYDNEY.
New Zealand Distributors:
INGLIS BROS. & CO. LTD.,
Harris Street, WELLINGTON.
T. E. SHIEL & CO.,
Stafford Street, DUNEDIN.
THE CLYDE CARS CO., Clyde, Ohio, U.S.A.
Labor of Hercules
performed bij(
drop o£{
m
h
Vi;
¥ *8
l/jS
i
r ;•
TT\
r<
mm t*
a - mMessmS. *\
Wm£l)
c
"*z~ Z
~ ' ‘
r\ -X /r J^J
m.
■
on
S> 5
...\
0/(. j| i{&o»?nOI
G'.'OM
&
<s
r>
\Sc
- . :i
Jbvy**
•H
QO
udw
‘
-cr
1
#!•
u
T]\
PLUME
BENZINE
is the clean, powerful
Spirit that drives your
Car or Motor Van far-
thest and fastest. Most
Motorists know that
“Plume” is a synonym
for “ Easy Starting —
Sweet Running—More
Miles.” Obtainable at
all Garages.
VARIOV VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sonnet.
At twelve o’clock, when all the house is still,
I look across the darkness of the lawn
Where one tall rowan-tree with berries, chill
Stands in the hedgerow waiting for the
dawn.
Frost tingles in the air; but up the hill,
Crackling along the short, white grass is
drawn
An elfin chariot that the starlights fill
With all the airy jewels of Ivnockawn.
The driver blows a horn and plies his whip,
And nearer, nearer come the silver wheels.
I stand and fear in that fine fellowship
Of wonder —with cold truth upon its
heels.
For well 1 know where the long shadow
steals
To catch the dream on its devouring lip.
N.S.W.
DAVID MCKEE WRIGHT.
love in Idleness.
And do you ever remember?
And can I ever forget?
Though love be a dying ember
My passion endureth yet.
for the love-god’s feast
In the purple east
The sails of our barque I set.
Then youth was a dream of gladness
That moved to a lilting song,
Love a melodious madness,
And virtue a shameful wrong;
All the years too short
For our joyous sport.
And moments apart too long.
The sun to the sea laughed gaily,
The beach was a golden throne
On which you were seated daily,
While I sat apart, alone,
And devised strange ways
To ensnare your gaze—
With a man of your very own!
How can you ever remember?
How can I ever forget
Those weeks of a near November
When, somehow, we never met?
Which, perhaps, is why,
As the days sped by,
I loved you—and love you yet!
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.
Angelns.
Grey spires, wherein no longer hang those
bells
That rang the dewy springtime’s fairy peals—
Those bells that shone like silver, sunset-
kissed,
Or budding roses wreathed in morning mist—
Bare are your belfries now that twilight
steals
About your turrets, autumn asphodels.
Green spires, that freshen as the day declines,
And grow and strengthen with the falling
year,
Though to the eye no bell your storeys bear,
The fancy feigns them hung with bells of air
Wherein your thousand bronze-bright tongues
appear
Ringing their carillons, ye Autumn pines.
Ah. ghostly asphodels ! Ah, young pines gay !
Bell-towers of fancy, in autumnal dream,
Yours is a world of music, heard and seen,
Thought and remembered in these shadows
green, >
Where sound and silence, sway and stillness
seem
All a soft angelus of closing day.
SPAIN.
JAMES WEBB.
First Kiss.
Seventeen lost her heart to you,
All on a morning gold and blue,
With a hey ho! hey ho!
For the tune that the blue bells rang.
Up and away before she knew,
Her heart ran over the hill to you,
With a tra la la la, la la la,
While the wind sang, and the birds sang.
The grasses still were wet with dew,
And she was shy, and so were you,
With a hey ho ! hey ho!
For the clover red in the fields.
High on the hills when the day was new
Her mouth was red, and her eyes were
blue,
Oh it’s tra la la la, la la la,
Sing the birds when the maiden yields.
All on a morning gold and blue,
I know who lost her heart to you !
N.S.W.
NORA MCAULIFFE.
Voice from an Ash-tray.
A half-burned brand from a funeral pyre,
That once glowed clear with a sacred fire,
A flower crushed in Life’s sordid mire,
And the crime of a broken trust;
Drifting smoke from a cigarette,
Red lips with wine and kisses wet,
Lips that avowed they would never forget,
And for me—a little grey dust.
A poppy that flamed on an altar white,
In the still strange hush of the velvet night,
When the beat of our hearts was a long
delight,
And the Future behind us thrust;
Stars that were framed in a casement high,
Rale, pale stars as the dawn drew nigh,
Sad, sad stars as we said good-bye
And for me —a little grey dust.
N.S.W.
HORACE HALLORAN.


mug?
c
A
a
Ki
The Perdriau Super Tread
is a New Note in Tyre Efficiency.
When we discovered the Super Tread Compound we tested
it by making a tyre shod partly with the usual tread
rubber and partly with Super Tread.
After running 3000 miles the three ribs of the former were
considerably worn, but those of the Super Tread were
still clear and sharp and the grooves as deep as ever.
That is how we first proved the great wear=resisting qualities of the Perdriau Super Tread,
We are supplying Perdriau Super Tread Tyres in all sizes.
Obtainable from your Local Garage or from the Manufacturers—
Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd. aii states.
The Popular Shilling Tooth Paste
Cleans the teeth without scratching
Sweetens the breath gardens the gums
MADE
IN
?>/
Australia
-j If your chemrsl- or storekeeper
cannof supply, send 1/5 in stomps
1-0 Rocke .Tompsitt £ Co. Melbourne.
sp
TA
Q YOVoyOVoVoV^
Nc %
5V
h/wdlll
V’M k
m
JJI fj
A *2
a
o
n
j/cYovgyoyo
rn
o
1
-2-
OVM
o
o i
Z Av
I .iSSHS
/ %
I *4
sc
..- „ /
•W
'M/V
/<:/&
jSM
' ibi /tk
KM§jh
HI /«*
Ofy
l’fit
JiAsSk?!
VTP
r<3
t*ci£2.
rrrs3N
a
Hundreds of These
Little Tins
are daily pouring into Australian
homes, doing their “bit” by helping
to keep folk healthy and happy. If
you haven’t yet tried
“REX”
LUNCHEON
CHEESE
you've got some new palate joys in
store for you. You’ll like its cap-
tivating flavor, its creamy, easily-
spread consistency.
“Rex” Cheese helps your digestion
because perfectly matured.
Get a tin and try it to-day.
Sold everywhere.
Also try “REX” HAM PATE
and “REX” VEAL & TONGUE.
They are two all-meat ‘spreads’
finely minced.
Recipes from users of “Rex’" Goods sent to
Box 2582, G.P.0., Sydney, will be appreciated
and suitably acknowledged-
FOGGITT, JONES & CO. LTD.
Packers of “Rex” Pure
Food Products
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon
J. 395
OIL TRACTION ENGINES
20=Horsepower, High=Tension Ignition.
Burn Petrol or Kerosene.
SUITABLE FOR CHAFFCUTTING, THRESHING,
PUITPING, SAWING, HAULING, etc.
Benson Brothers Ltd.,
76-78 LIVERPOOL STREET, SYDNEY.
71=75 QUEEN’S BRIDGE STREET, fIELBOURNE.
138 CURRIE STREET, ADELAIDE.
Dodge Brothers
MOTOR CAR
'“pHE NEW YEAR finds this car
more strongly established on the
Australian market than ever.
The absolutely universal commendation of owners is one of
the remarkable features of the car. It is delightful to hear
the frank enthusiasm of those who have run their cars
over thousands of miles.
DALGETY & COMPANY LIMITED,
136-138 Phillip Street. Sydney.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Voi. 40.-No. 2031.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 16, 1919.
Wab-time Pkice, Sd.
REFUSE SHOT HERE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“'When asked if there was not a danger in sending the Kaiser to Holland, Count von Bernstorff replied: ‘Where in hell were we to send him?’”
Now where in hell could this person go?
All gates were shut that we used to know;
He had barred them with weeping and blood and
woe.
The valiant Swiss, on their mountains high,
Looked out with a cold, unkindly eye;
They had suffered much and they well knew why.
The Danes, in the midst of the world’s alarms,
Stood to their guarded posts in arms;
They knew the Prussian in all his charms.
Across the Russian frontier red,
Where his own loud mouth had the tumult bred,
A king must travel without his head.
The gates were barred, not a door was seen;
The sea was not what the sea had been,
Tor mutiny stirred on the submarine.
So they tossed him over the low Dutch wall—
I rayer, bravado and crown and all —
To wait till the dirt-box man should call.
N.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS ToIsUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 10s. per annum you can have The Bulletin
sent regularly to you every week for a year, to any
address in Australasia, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents a/ this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
SOOO words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, . those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —trill be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgaie Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., ill Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C. . ,
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.;Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu. _ , . „
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt, M.
Houng, Cairo, Egypt. at-oat
Hono Kong. —Brewer and Co., redder Stress,
Hong Kong. „ ....
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Bailhe Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarat.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
lOoz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, lboz.,
lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., lid.; Slog, to 10oz., 3d.,
1002. to 120 z., s&d.; elsewhere, hoz., lid., and each
additional 2oz.
TlteT&vZljelxtfL
THURSDAY, JANUARY 16. 1919.
THE SHAPELESS, NAMELESS WAR.
Whether the new war will be big and long
like the old one, or whether it will be a
mere untidy scramble, more annoying than
dangerous, no prophet is available to. tell.
It may be just about ending through inter
nal collapse, or it may be only beginning. It
is intended to be a world war and the in-
tention may come off. No one knows for
certain what the parties will be. Russia, or
the biggest part of Russia, appears certain.
If the Bolshevik element gets the upp t band
in Germany the great Hun country will
almost assuredly be the ally of Russia, and
there is wild talk of the Hun and the Slav
fighting side by side on the Rhine for the
ruin of civilisation. The present boundaries
of the enemy are undecided, but they seem to
be somewhere about Poland, in the West,
seeing that Huns and Bolsheviks are making
a common annoyance against the northern
section of Paderewski’s republic, while
Bolsheviks and Ukrainians are .doing the
same further south. There are mixed forces
scrapping in the north near the \Y h-.te feea,
but the withdrawal of the Americans, who
view the Bolshevik mix-up as something out-
side their jurisdiction, may weaken . the
Allied position there. There are more mixed
forces scrapping in Siberia, but the with-
drawal of the Americans and Japanese
doesn’t improve the position. The mixed
Franeo-Roumanian handful, rumored to be
in Bessarabia, and the isolated Czecho-
slovaks on the Volga, and the dubious arma-
ments of the few little republics which exist
as yet mostlv on paper, and a small British
and assorted force in the Baku region about
complete the picture. It suggests a number
of flies attacking the outskirts of a cheese.
The nominal headquarters of the R ipublic
of Anarchy are known; the real head-
quarters are uncertain. There is no coherent
Government to negotiate with, and the con-
duct of what calls itself a Government, but
is really a slaughter-house, makes negotia-
tion impossible. The first condition of any
kind of peace would be the restoration of
some semblance of internal calm, so that
the lives and assets of foreigners would be
safe. To do that the existing rulers would
have to hang or imprison their principal
followers and make them disgorge much
plunder, and the rulers probably wouldn’t
last a week on these conditions. It would
be putting a tiger on a vegetable diet, where-
upon he Would eat his master for the sake
of meat. Even the amount of temporary
repose which would allow a Peace Commis-
sion to visit Lenin and Trotsky in their
lair and inquire what had happened to
French, British and other alien subjects
might give the sane elements of the popula-
tion time to organise and make an end of
Lenin and Trotsky. Bolshevism, accord-
ing to the rules of the game, has to conquer
Europe and spread its doctrine of the de-
struction of things far and wide, or die an
uncomfortable death.
What sort of army the Republic of An-
archy may raise if luck comes its way is a
matter of the wildest speculation. There
is talk of 1.000,000 troops already in exist-
ence, and the number seems really small.
The discipline that sweeps men into the army
appears to be the only strenuous discipline
in the country. The army is well-paid (in
paper), and apparently, though the military
training is severe, it doesn’t forfeit its privi-
leges of loot. And it is something of a place
of refuge from the tribunals which order
executions promiscuously. There is loose
talk —perhaps not so loose as it appears—
of an army of 3,000,000 or 4,000,000 to he
ready when the snows melt. This force is
supposed to be partly officered by capable
Germans, some of whom dare not go home
for obvious reasons, and to be armed, not
only with the ddbris of the old Russian army,
but with munitions which the retreating. Hun
forces left behind them, not altogether in an
unfriendly spirit. Should the Bolshevik or
Spartacus party come on top in Germany
the new Republic of Anarchy may spread a
long way towards the Rhine. The obstruc-
tion of Paderewski’s very unfinished repub-
lic may prove formidable or it may not.
The Hun army is supposed to .be largely dis-
banded, but disbanded armies sometimes
come together again to a considerable extent
under sufficient inducement. It can’t have
been wholly disarmed. The Republic of
Anarchy has an attractive programme to
offer to the Hun soldier who comes back,
demoralised by years spent in the joyous
wrecking of cities and in riot among the
women of an enslaved population, to settle
down to the plain hard work he has for-
gotten, and the bitter grind of paying off
an indemnity. He is offered some sort of
chance to collect any indemnity that may be
collectable for himself—not for the Allies.
He is to get square with his old oppressors
the junkers, the aristocrats, the imperial
clan and the bureaucracy. He is to have
another shot at the hated enemy who defeated
him, and to fight only on one front this
time, and with a bigger—possibly better —
ally than Austria behind him. Further, he
expects to find friends in the enemy’s camp
-—friends that didn’t amount to much when
he represented the worst kind of imperialism.
In a new capacity as the upholder of the
frantic banner of liberty he will appeal to
the new crowd which runs the Australian
Labor party, and whose organ is already
Bolshevik pure and simple; also to the
I.WAV. and “Direct Action’’ element all the
world over. In other words, he will call
on the push of the globe. For the first
time the globe-push has a political centre
and a Push Government as a rallying point.
* * * *
The whole business, it has been already
mentioned, may. collapse as does a bubble,
or it may grow. If it grows to the bound-
aries that now seem possible it must be
extinguished inside these borders, else it
will spread further. It is the fire in the
adjacent paddock which takes no notice of
fences. The war that is just about ended
was fouaht to impose on the world outside
Hun-land the new Hun civilisation. It was
to be a brutish system of Hun slave-owners
and their innumerable slaves, but still it
was some kind of civilisation. The
war that may be just beginning is worse,
inasmuch as it will be for the finish of
civilisation, the wholesale slaying of “intel-
lectuals.” and the re-establishment of chaos.
Out of the chaos a new class of despots would
doubtless evolve in the course of centuries,
but it is a great deal to go through for so
very little. Still, the Republic of Anarchy
expects to have a smaller alliance to contend
with than took the field in the last disturb-
ance, for two of the big Allies show signs
of regarding the riot as a mere domestic and
internal affair which doesn’t concern them.
There will be no marine outrages to arouse
neutrals this time, for the Republic of
Anarchy won’t go to sea. The remaining
Allies are very, very weary. The distances
that may be involved seem almost illimitable.
They are the distances which swallowed up
the power of Napoleon and Charles XII.
before him, and which almost swallowed up
Darius I. before either of them. It would
possibly be found, by the time the war got
there, that the destruction of railways had
made them almost the same raw, crude,
boggy, featureless distances that Darius
found them, save for the fact that the air-
ship is a factor that was wanting half a
millennium B.c. Probably it is capable of
sdving civilisation by itself. But even with
it taken into account the shapeless, nameless
war is a matter of large possibilities.
RACE.
At tlie British elections the three princi-
palities, Man and the two Channel Island
dominions, of course didn’t vote; they have
Parliaments of their own, on the ground that
the populations are non-English. In fact,
the Channel Islands even have coinages of
their own, English is only “permissible” in
their legislative debates, and George V.
reigns there on the plea that he is Duke
of Normandy, which he isn’t. But if these
places had voted it would have made no
difference. The outstanding fact is that
the Sinn Feiners —the Irish irreconcilables —•
are now the most numerous party outside
the Government, and would presumably be
the Opposition if they chose to take their
seats. Pursuing a new line of action in-
stead, they propose to stay away and create
a Parliament of their own, which will have
no legal status to begin with, but hopes to
acquire one. The long waiting for autonomy
after the fashion of that enjoyed by Tas-
mania and the Isle of Man has had its natu-
ral result. A new generation has arisen
which demands, not merely autonomy, but
separation. However, it would probably
compromise at the old figure. Most business
men will accept a reduction when trade
is slack.
* * * *
There is, or was, a certain similarity be-
tween the Irish and Scotch position. Eng-
land decided almost in the same hour to ex-
tend the blessing of good government to
France, Scotland. Wales, Ireland and Man.
France was too large a proposition, though
it took 100 years’ fighting to prove it. Wales
was practically taken after 346 years’ argu-
ment, which for so small and disorganised a
place was a wonderful amount of argument.
The kingdom of Man was only a selection.
Scotland was irreconcilable. It was a curi-
ous little spot divided between two popula-
tions which seldom spoke to each other ex-
cept in bitterness and in different languages.
When the kings moved from the North to the
South, and began to talk in bad English in-
stead of Gaelic, and posed as new Saxon-Nor-
mans instead of old Scots, they gave a chance
for the formation of a new northern State.
So the Lords of the Isles ran an intermittent
show of their own, and for very many years
the nominal kings of a very small country
very seldom ventured into the top half of
that country. It was a land of dissension.
It never evolved real Parliamentary Govern-
ment, though it had erratic assemblies of
barons with ill-defined authority. Great
nobles were a law- to themselves —in fact,
one family of them practically ran the coun-
try for the better part of two centuries.
When Elizabeth was making order in Eng-
land the peers of Scotland were still prig-
ging their monarchs and ruling in their
names. One very great battle between the
army of the Mikado, James Stewart of
Lothian, and the Tycoon, Donald of the
Isles, nearly destroyed the army of the lower
half of Scotland and yet left the position
unfixed.
* * * *
So this harassed State fought a wild cat
fight, with French assistance, for nearly
300 years to avoid the advantages of orderly
English government. It even fought the dis-
astrous battle of Pinkie to avoid a peaceful
union being brought about by a marriage
between its young queen and the heir to the
English throne. However, a certain affa-
bility began to supervene at last, because
the half of Scotland which Europe recog-
nised—the Edinburgh half, not the Inverness
half—was largely of the same race as the
English, so there was a community of inter-
ests —a community not to be found in Ire-
land. In fact, the southern Scots were to a
great extent fln intruding or Belfast element
in Scotland, only they were a big element,
while Belfast is a small one. They were
also drawn to the English by a partial
similarity of religion, which isn’t the case
with the Irish. But even then Scotland was
only saved from being another Ireland —a
place which England was bound to conquer
in the end, but which would have had an
undying hatred in consequence—by an acci-
dent. The Tudors having died out, there
was an opening for a king, and Scotland
was appeased by Its sovereign being allowed
in theory to annex the old big enemy where
his descendants reign to-day. Yet even then
the old problems weren’t settled. It was in
Captain Cook’s day that the last army of
Scotch Sinn Feiners invaded England in
their petticoats and made their final effort
to alter the line of succession. If Scotland
had been as unanimous then as Ireland is
to-day they might have succeeded. After
that the Scotch irreconcilables mostly went
abroad like the Irish, but as they only repre-
sented half a nation they had no status. They
were the illiterate half and wore skirts.
* * * *
Racial questions are of very long con-
tinuance and they can’t be got rid of by
saying fiercely that they are wicked and
shouldn’t exist. Considering the rather poor
response the French Canadians made to the
war call as compared' with the rest of their
countrymen, Britain begins to doubt if there
has been complete assimilation even there.
The Boers secured liberal terms for them-
selves : one of their old capitals was made
the administrative centre of the South
African Union; and a Boer general has
become Prime Minister of South Africa, just
as a Scotchman became King of England.
Yet there is a very considerable unsatisfied
party still in evidence. Ireland has not
been given up as a bad job like Normandy
and the United States, or been mollified
by the present of a kingship as the Scotch
were; or by a Prime Ministership and the
establishment of the administrative capital
and Government officers and the ruler’s
palace in its territory as happened to the
Boers; or by local self-government as
happened to the province of Quebec, where
an overwhelming French Catholic majority—•
a conquered majority—rules over a Pro-
testant minority. It hasn’t even the polite
compliment of having its own Sultan after
the fashion of Egypt. In fact, it is a
conquered country without frills, except that
it has a representation in the British Parlia-
ment, which is as powerless for the purpose
Ireland desires as were the representatives
of Prussian Poland and Alsace-Lorraine in
the German Parliament. The large Greek
population in Turkey also has representation
in the Turkish Parliament when that inter-
mittent organisation is on its job, and in
the days of Turkish domination they almost
ran the empire at times, being employed in
all manner of public billets for which the
thick-headed Ottoman was unsuited. Still,
the Greek question didn’t settle any more
than the Irish one does. The Irish are like
the Jews —scattered folk with a minority
at headquarters and a great majority abroad.
In each case—speaking of Judah as it was
till last year—headquarters are ruled by
a nation that isn’t their own, and which
gives them much the same kind of govern-
ment that it gives to its own people. In
each case they want to own headquarters;
the Jew in London and the Irishman in
London agree on that point. So the island,
in which Britain is trying to do what it
never really managed to do anywhere else,
is a problem. It is such an interesting
problem that England would be a homeless,
bereaved sort of place without it. And the
Sinn Feiners propose to. put a new aspect
on it so that life may not become stagnant.
AFTER ALL, IS ANARCHY SO BAD?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
No country lias yet of its own sober deter-
mination chosen anarchy as its mode of
misgovernment. (It is possible to make
this statement because the Northern Terri-
tory is not strictly a country, has never
yet known sober determination, and because
the thing imposed upon it from without
looks quite as anarchistic as anything
bursting up from within.) It is true that
Israel, in moderately early times, had a
theocracy, with the general government
vested in the occasional person who at odd
times might rise up in some unlooked for
spot and claim the divine right to be boss
as far as his list could travel or his voice
penetrate. But anarchy, the great mis-
understood light of which democracy is the
pale reflection, has never yet got beyond
the first experimental stage of a badly-aimed
bomb and newspaper abuse.
Naturally newspapers abuse anarchy. I
a country' where it was firmly established
there could be no politics, no crime, no
resistance of law and order, no talk of
reform, no men in the public eye—in fact,
no food at all for the daily press. The
latest poem and the price of potatoes would
be about the only subjects in which the
public would take an intelligent interest;
and as potatoes and poetry are only a
moderate basis for journalism, the press
keeps up a steady yell of “Gon save the
King”—whether the king be a right-diviner
or a mere person who loses the letters in-
trusted to him in the post office.
Nevertheless, anarchy is an excellent
newspaper heading, and none the less useful
bcause the right-thinking shudder at it, the
general person doesn’t know what it means
and the newspapers themselves resolutely
refuse to say what it means.
In any case, their silence doesn’t matter
much, for any regular definition of anarchy
can be couched in such terms that its beauty
is wholly hidden and its value depreciated.
This is due to our habit of setting an alto-
gether unjustifiable market price upon
people who merely obstruct the human
traffic. Governments are always quoted at
the top of the list as the most precious
of human possessions; and, as the anarchist
professes to have no use for Governments,
it follows that he is a depraved person
without the inner light. But is he?
Every man who loves a Government
tries to make excuses fv;' it by point-
ing out that, as the animals go, it
is no worse than its fellows. What would
be thought, though, of any man who, in
train, tram, church or pub, declared without
apology or hedging that any of the herd of
Governments now grazing on Australia was
really good? What would be thought of a
newspaper that said it without equivocation?
The mere fact that such questions can be
stated with no doubt as to the answer is
proof that Governments are bad things.
Try it another way. If all the Governments
that Australia has ever known were put in
one heap and offered in exchange for a single
bag of well-grown potatoes, who would be
willing to give the potatoes for them?
Clearly, then,.,Governments are bad; and the
public mind, as voiced by the public mouth,
is quite agreed about it.
This gets us down to the position taken
up by the anarchist. He maintains that
Governments are bad, and that he doesn’t
want them. The general person, on the other
hand, admits that they are bad, but thinks he
does want them. On the face of it, the people
who want bad things would seem inferior in
intelligence to those who don’t want them. So
the anarchist, dissociated for the moment
from the bomb that he can’t throw straight,
would seem to have at least one point in his
favor.
But the intelligent anarchist goes much
further than a mere denunciation of Govern-
ments. He takes the positive ground that
man has of recent years grown big enough to
look after himself without being governed at
all. He points to the force of public opinion
as an upholder of any number of decent laws
that need never be written ; he observes old
lady Grundy seated in her parlor in every
township, exercising by right of her pointed
remarks the power of a score of large police-
men.. Man, he claims, is a pretty good citi-
zen if you leave him alone ; and almost any
man thus left alone makes a better showing
than any Government, however closely
watched by press and people. True, there
is crime, but the crime is always most fre-
quent where the policeman’s foot is most
constantly heard ; and the policeman is the
power of the. Government in uniform. The
criminal is, in fact, a pretty fixed quantity
in the community, in spite of the Govern-
ment ; and the anarchist would ask the
policeman to stand aside and allow the pub-
lic to catch the prey he so regularly misses.
Philosophically the anarchist can make out
a good case if he gets a hearing; but when
it comes to practical revolution he always
mishandles things. Once the bomb really
goes straight and extinguishes the Govern-
ment a vacuum is created ; and as nature
abhors a vacuum, something rushes in to fill
it. That something is usually another Gov-
ernment worse than the first; and the whole
thing has to be begun over again. Consid-
ering what a bad shot the philosophic anar-
chist generally is, this makes progress rather
slow; and so anarchy and reform keep about
level running, with only a snail sprint now
and again to hearten the onlookers.
What this old world needs is some kind
of practical compromise. Anarchy has
so good an end in the argument and so bad
an end in the actual carrying of it out
that it might be well just to accept as much
of its propaganda as the people who are
only half-anarchists could carry out without
creating a vacuum that the Devil would
rush in to fill. Australia has seven Govern-
ments in full bearing, as ■well as a whole
forest of other things remarkably like weedy
growths of the same tree, that carry all
manner of deadly sins to partial fruition.
Why not use the anarchist’s axe as far as
it is practicable and safe? If the argument
for any government is tolerably w T eak. the
defence to be put up for over-government
must be calamitous in its futility. Our
present system is a perpetual temptation to


the real whole-hogging anarchist who can so
readily create the real bomb. No sane
jury in Australia would convict a patriot
for destroying a Government or two, or grub-
bing out with explosives a few brace of over-
lapping municipalities. If the half-anarchist
doesn’t do his work with moderation and
judgment the whole-anarchist will do it
without discretion to the music of massed
bands.
P.O.M.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
“Honors.”
The cabled intimation that many hundreds
of 0.8.E.’s have been granted recently
draws attention again to the demented state
of the “honors” market. Every colonel and
major of a certain seniority has a recognised
right to a D.S.O. If he fails to aet it there
is an implication that he is either a dud or
a drunk. On the other hand —and here is
where the outrageous unfairness of the sys-
tem comes in—it may merely be that he is
unpopular with his superiors ; or that he is
less popular than another and no better man ;
or that someone else has more “pull” than he
has. Military Crosses are dealt out on a
somewhat similar basis. After the adjutant,
the M.O. and one or two others at Brigade
or Battalion H.Q. have been provided for,
there are a certain number available for deeds
of gallantry and good work generally. But
not many. The astonishing explanation is
that 80 per cent, of all officer decorations
have, for years past, gone to the Staff. The
Prince of Wales is an M.C. Through no
fault of his own he never had a chance to
earn it in the line. The military baker at
Boulogne is, or was, an M.C. When our ex-
peditionaries come back we shall gaze admir-
ingly at colonels and majors who are D.S.O.’s
or M.C.’s, or both, but who have not, in their
whole four years of service, been nearer the
firing-line than a motor-transport billet or a
base camp. We shall gaze also upon many
hundreds of undecorated officers. A large pro-
portion of these men are undecorated for no
other reason than that non-combatant officers
were in a position to snavel the distinctions
that the combatants should have had. Here
are two cases:—
“H” enlisted in 1914, won his commission on the
Peninsula, lost his left eye, and was invalided back
to Australia. Returning to the Front, he was
wounded in the arm at Bullecourt. lie was badly
wounded in the leg in August, 1918 —being at the
time a captain—and boarded for Australia. No
decoration.
“M” left Sydney as a gunner in 1915, lost his right
eye in France; came back again and was wounded
in the hand ; came back again and was gassed ; came
back again and did good work as acting-battery cap-
tain. No decoration.
Yet all the adjutants in the Reserve or
training-camps in England werj 0.8.E.’d,
or “mentioned,” or both, about six mouths
ago. With few exceptions they ware men
who had seen a little service and then, de-
ciding that the life was too thrilling, devel-
oped old-standing football kr.ees or sprains
or what not and got back to England. There
are cases of 0.8.E.’s with six weeks’ undis-
tinguished service in or near the line, and
three years’ comfortable adjutanting at a
minimum distance of 50 miles from it. An
order appeared three months ago that in
future 0.5.0.’s were only to be awarded for
acts of gallantry; and at about the same
time 0.8. E. began to be awarded to com-
batants. The effect was to inestimably in-
crease the value of the thousands of D.S.O.’s
which had already been earned in comfort-
able and perfectly safe Base jobs, and to
give a signification to the 0.8. E. decoration
which is ridiculously inappropriate. The
“ration” system of decorations applies, to a
limited extent, to -the honors that belong to
the rank and file —that is to say, so many
M.M.’s and D.C.M.’s are periodically allotted
to brigades. But, since staff-officers cannot
wear these decorations, an M.M. or a D.C.M.
is worth, on the average, about 50 times
more, as a guarantee of the possession of
soldierly virtues, than an M.C. or a D.S.O.
And yet an M.C. or a D.S.O. genuinely
earned (meaning earned outside an office) is
one of the world’s proudest distinctions. It
is a muddled and—from another aspect—a
sordid business. The cumulative effect of
all of it is to put military “honors” in the
same low-comedy category as social ones.
There are only, two distinctions in the Brit-
ish Empire which are not under suspicion—
the V.C. and the O.M.
The Defence Department in Blighty.
Down to a very few months ago—that
is to say, for three years after there had
been a big Australian army in Europe—
there was not a general Australian hospital
in England. There were only several of
the variety known as auxiliary. Away back
in the beginning of things a very exalted
person is understood to have desired that,
“for the good of the Empire,” the Aus-
tralian sick and wounded should be scattered
among the other sick and wounded. The
intention, of course, was plain; these Aus-
tralians, who were suspected of being rather
too much Australian and not sufficiently
Imperial, were to be put into an environ-
ment which it was thought might change
their spots. High Australian authority
accepted this view—it would be interesting
to discover exactly who was responsible, for
in the last resort one man always is—and
thereafter the sick or wounded Digger sent
over from France was entrained to the north
of England, or the west of England, or the
south of England, or the east of England—
to any one of a hundred hospitals, most of
them formerly private homes not built for
hospitals and not used exclusively by Aus-
tralians. Though 50 Australians might come
over the Channel together, it might happen
that not two of them would go to the same
ward. Now, it is bad enough that sick and
wounded Diggers should be separated from
the men of their own army, the men of
their own land. Even if it were decided
that it was advisable to mix up Tommies
and Canadians and Diggers and Maori-
landers. the experiment should not be made
while they are sick, and least capable of
bearing separation from their own proper
“cobbers.” But there is another considera-
tion which ought to have long ago led to
the abandonment of the foolish and un-Aus-
tralian if not anti-Australian experiment.
These mixed hospitals to which Australian
soldiers have been sent were not only for
the most part not built for hospitals,' but
they are largely staffed by V.A.D.’s and
other untrained women; whereas the Aus-
tralian auxiliarv hospitals, at which the
Australian soldier arrived as a rule only
after he was more or less convalescent, are
staffed by trained Australian nurses. Surely
nothing could be either more utterly absurd
or more unfair both to Australian nurses
and to Australian soldiers, as well as to the
Australian doctors who manned these auxil-
iary hospitals, than such a system as this.
To urge that for some occult irtilitary reason
it has been unavoidable is in this case at
least no good, because, as already indicated,
Maoriland has all along had a general
hospital in England to which all or
practically all its sick and wounded have
been at once entrained, and where they have
had the _ benefits, not only of association
with their mates, but also of the care and
attention of the trained nurses of their own
country. Australia knows pretty well, by
this time, what Defence administration at
home has been like. When it learns more
fully what Australian Defence administra-
tion in Blighty has been like, it won’t be
inclined to alter any unflattering opinion it
has already formed.
Soldiers’ Grievances.
The point of view of a good-Australian
officer: —•
The soldiers have a tremendous number of griev-
ances—far more, really, than most of them even
dimly suspect. But it is impossible to live amongst
them for any time without finding that the earliest
and loudest complainants are invariably the second-
rate men—the lead-swingers, the loafers and the
illiterates. They concentrate, naturally, on fancied
wrongs, or on wrongs that don’t matter so much, to
the exclusion of the deeper evils. We had about the
average quota on the carrier in which I returned.
The food and accommodation were fair—as such
things go on troopships. But owing to the in-
fluenza, no one was allowed ashore between Liverpool
and Port Phillip; and on arriving there we were
ordered into quarantine at Portsea. The agitators
saw a chance to exercise their voices, practise stump
oratory, and gain advertisement. They persuaded
the others,, for a while, to refuse to land and go
through the inhalation process. On ether ships at
about the same time men went on shore against the
0.0.’s orders and those of the Quarantine authorities.
The influenza scare has died down now, and so
there is no harm in mentioning the matter; but if,
six weeks ago, it had been widely advertised that
soldiers were either jibbing at prophylactic treat-
ment, or, still worse, were going ashore without
being passed “clean” by the medical authorities—-
well, the tendency would have been to make the
returned man the reverse of popular in his native
land.
There is a general allegation that the Sardinia
was a very bad ship. What were the stated
grievances? That there was no fish. The writer
has been on seven troopships—including transports,
hospital ships and carriers—and about four-fifths
of the fish provided in all of them was either heaved
overboard or left on the men’s plates. It is no
deprivation to be without ship-board fish. The
bread on the Sardinia, it is said, was bad. So is all
English bread nowadays, The food was badly cooked,
and there was a shortage of fresh meat and fresh
vegetables. At the time of writing the finding of the
Court of Inquiry which is dealing with the Sardinia
case has not been published. But this is certain:
whichever way the Court finds, every , soldier will
know that the allegations were all true —that, in
fact, they only represented a fraction of the truth.
Give -all that in, and I still say that it is bad
policy, from the standpoint of the A.1.F., for the
soldiers to squeal on that sort of grievance.
Rightly or wrongly (for my part I am sure
rightly) the public has formed an ideal of the Aus-
tralian Expeditionary. It visualises him as a big
man—strong, good-humored, patient and philosophic.
The people who have stayed at home remember,
when they think of him, the privations of Gallipoli,
and the horrors of the front-line trenches in the
Ypres sector and on the Somme. The hero returns
(radiantly healthy in most cases) and the first
direct news his admirers get of him is that he is
kicking up a row about the food he has been having
during the previous 10 weeks. It is not in the pic-
ture. As regards the soldiers’ friends it comes
as a painful anti-climax; to his enemies it is a
looked-for opportunity.
What is needed is a rigid economy in the stating
of grievances. To get that the professor of “uplift”
requires to be discouraged. He is often a well-
meaning, earnest lad, no doubt; but he lacks
balance, knowledge, a standard of comparison—
almost everj'thing which a leader should possess.
He thinks that he is serving his comrades’ interests,
at the same time as he is enjoying an unwonted
bathe in the limelight. In reality he is doing them
more harm than those Queenslanders who hoot sol-
diers in the streets. If the papers are going to in-
discriminately print details of all soldiers’ grievances,
the men should take particular care that only the big
ones are voiced. It will be no good to those who
are due to return in the coming months to find that,
while more fish or less bully-beef is on their menus,
yet, as an outcome of it, they have lost in popularity
and respect in the community.
»
Marrying Maud Blithers.
The rumor is persistent that the Prince of
Wales may marry a United jStates girl—
possibly Maud Blithers, daughter of Wil-
liam W. Blithers, of Chicago. Presum-
ably he will marry somebody, it being a
habit, though the British royal family is so
numerous that it wouldn’t die out even if
one prospective king remained single. Also
marriage is a duty among the wearers of
thrones. The first business of an hereditary
monarchy is to be hereditary, and it can’t
be legally hereditary unless it marries. The
last unmarried sovereign that England pos-
sesses was a bachelor girl, and the experiment
isn’t likely to be repeated. (In this connection
it is curious to note that though there were
only five Tudor sovereigns, and two of them
were females and two died single, they had
seven wives among them. Yet the direct
line died out.) The old British habit of
marrying commoners ended with Henry
VIII., who would marry almost everybody,
but at one time it was fairly common all
over Europe. In later years, however, king-
ship has been almost a close corporation,
and through much intermarriage some mon-
archs have been growing weedy and some
have grown mad. They didn’t get back to
the old Egyptian habit of brother marrying
sister when outside royalties were scarce,
but they did get to marriages between uncle
and niece, which was almost as bad. Very
rarely a Bernadotte or a KArageorgevitch
brought new blood into the circle. Now
there is a feeling that royalties shouldn’t
become any smaller or more closely related
than they are. Most of the tribe have fallen
into disrepute through keeping too far from
the firing-line. And with Germany, Austria,
Kussia and Bulgaria barred as rabbit war-
rens of marriageable princes and princesses,
and Holland at a discount as half-German,
and Portugal gone out of the royalty busi-
ness, there are hardly any mates of the old
order available. Either the Prince of Wales
or somebody like him will be driven to marry
Maud Blithers, of the United States. She
has this advantage over Maud Possum, of
Australia—she isn’t a subject. Probably it
will take some time before the idea of a
king marrying his own subject is assimi-
lated. And Maud Blithers isn’t a com-
moner, for where there is no peerage nobody
is commoner than anybody else. Maud, in
fact, is regal in a way, like Carmen, of San-
tiago, or Dolores, of Buenos Ayres, for old
man Blithers is a presumptive ruler, while
old man Possum isn’t. So the republics
may suddenly take a top seat in the mar-
riage mart. They are full of possible mon-
archs.
+
Sheepvvash. . . .Free.
“Sheepwash... .free."’— Customary tariff item.
A lengthy correspondence about sheep-dip
is interesting as showing the complete unim-
portance of Australian industry in the
opinion of Hughes, Watt, Millfn, Jensen
and Co. The correspondence began the year
before last, when an Australian firm was
approached with the information that the
export of dip from England would almost
certainly be prohibited owing to shortage of
supplies and lack of shipping space. There-
fore the firm — Leggo’s, of Melbourne —was
asked if it could undertake to meet the Aus-
tralian demand, which involved the expendi-
ture of many thousands in new plant. There
was no offer of a duty to ensure that the
demand would last and keep the new plant
employed after the war was over; in fact,
there was no offer of any kind, and no assur-
ance save that there would be an opening for
business while the war lasted. Indeed, some-
one seems to have had the amazing effrontery
to suggest that the firm, being a mere Aus-
tralian manufacturing concern and thus plain
dirt in the view of a Foreign-trade Ministry,
should enter into a bond with a cash forfeit
attached to supply, at much expense in plant,
the demand which might stop any day; but
this idea was dropped. No one dreamed of
telling the English manufacturer that his
goods would be shut out unless he entered
into a bond to keep up regular supplies at a
fixed price instead of using this market as
a convenience. The importing interest isn’t
treated that way. The rest of the story,
spread over a multitude of documents,
amounts to this. The Australian firm spent
money by request to meet the demand which
it was assured the war had created ; but its
informants were either ignorant and incompe-
tent or plain humorists, for imported dip came
in as usual. The Imperial Government didn’t
stop exports, and shipping space was found
somewhere and somehow. Ministers and
Government officials of various sorts were
artlessly surprised at the curious situation,
but mild astonishment was all they
contributed to the problem, and the Austra-
lian firm found that astonishment wasn’t
saleable. There was long notice that large
shipments—apparently even larger than usual
—were coming from England, so that a
costly plant put up by invitation to supply
all Australia was bound to be at least half
useless. A cablegram announcing that a
solid duty was going to be imposed promptly
would have put the situation right, but it
wasn’t sent by the . importing Government,
and no duty was imposed. The position
looks like a particularly bad joke played on
Australian industry to show that it can’t
expect to be more than a warming-pan for
the importer. In fact, the affair went
beyond that and took on the aspect of an
elaborate hoax—which might be amusing
to the perpetrators but didn’t appeal to the
sufferers. The firm, however, was partly
to blame. It should have sold its works
to the Government as the Shaw Wireless
did.
10,000 Tons of Sugar.
It is mentioned that the Australian Gov-
ernment has made a special purchase of
10,000 tons of sugar from abroad, to sup-
plement the ordinary private-enterprise pur-
chases, which in some years run to 100,000
tons and more. This seems a curious circum-
stance for a country which prides itself on
being, above all things, a producer of raw
material. Only for one year in its long
record did Australia raise enough of this
simple, indispensable vegetable to supply the
local market and leave an imperceptible frag-
ment for export. Possibly this is because
sugar can’t be dumped on board ship in a
natural state like wool or wheat or carcases
of beasts. It requires a certain amount of
manufacturing which, so the importation
and loan crowd teaches, is a thing to be
°i^A C this country paid away
±l.l l u.uut) for imported sugar. In 191(1 it
the amount was
tl.bl i ,UOU. rhere were years when *he posi-
tion was better, but it was always bad In
addition there were imports of molasses and
syrup. The country suitable for sugar-cane
isn t nearly all occupied, but the industrv
appears to be petrified. As for the growth
ot beet-sugar, it is practically extinct, if it
can be said to have ever lived. Yet beet
raising is a white man’s work in all the
countries where it is done—France. Ger-
many, Austria, Russia and Italy for ex-
amples—and it is now the chief source of
the world s sugar supply. i n n. g
the growth of sugar-beet was started in 1874
but it was ‘chucked” in disgust because the
hist roots grown yielded only 7 per cent.
of sugar. When the same vegetable was
tried in Germany the yield was a mere 5
per cent., but the patient Hun worked on.
and with better cultivation and hotter
machinery raised the yield to 1-1 per cent.,
which was remarkably profitable. Excited
by this news the Victorian Government made
experiments and got over 18 per cent, and
some private experiments ran to 22 and 2-1
per cent., at which rate the industry seemed
to have a fortune in it. But the Australian
farmer, or rather dragger of simple old roots
out of the earth, never took to the new-
fangled crop. He has such a dread of new-
fangled crops that he hasn’t struck anything
really new since the convict days. Coffee
once got so far as to cover 547 acres.
Then it faded till, when last heard of, it
represented 91. acres. Victoria grew 1758
acres of hops in 1884; in 1916 the whole
Commonwealth raised 1515 acres and £50.000
was paid for imported hops. Tobacco stood
for 6641 acres in 1889 and was down to
1906 acres in 1916. Victoria was the one
State which experimented seriously with
sugar-beet. It got as far as to grow 1093
acres of the vegetable, and then slumped to
461 acres. Arrowroot never ran to more
than a few hundred acres. Cotton started
before 1828, for there was a small export
that year, and between 1867 and 1S T 4 some
5000 tons of the stuff was sent abroad. But
as there were no mills to use the article it
practically wandered off the map. A recent
record showed about 70 acres under cotton.
Yet the country uses cotton —uses <.,me in
its woollen mills —and imports most of it.
It also imports millet, flax and hemp
(£575,000 worth in 1918) ; bark (even wattle
bark), jute, straw, sago, mustard and sun-
dries. The patient way in which the Aus-
tralian farmer stodges along, growing the
few simple old things that his ancestors
learned about in the convict time when the
kangaroo was still plentiful in Collins-
street, _ avoiding new-fangled or “fancy”
industries (a Victorian Minister recently
warned returned soldiers against sugar-beet
as a “fancy” and rash and unorthodox de-
parture), dodging wild experiments and
being true to the faith of his bucolic fore-
fathers, is amazing.
4
Bolshevism Arrives.
The News (25/3/1929.)
The State Government has been overthrown. The
Balmain Soviet, led by Comrade Fritz Goreski, pro-
ceeded to the Sydney Town Hall at about 3 p.m.
yesterday. After some desultory firing an entrance
was effected. The Lord Mayor was severely wounded.
Amongst the killed were Mr. Wooster, 0.8. E.,
Town Clerk; Biffkins, the doorkeeper; and 14
policemen.
What the Papers Said of It (26/3/1929.)
The S. M. Herald : —We cannot too strongly
deprecate Mr. Goreski’s ill-advised action yesterday
in forcing a way into the Town Hall, as'a result
of which the Council has lost an esteemed servant.
This is on a par with Mr. Goreski’s enterprise of
last Sunday, which culminated in the death of the
Archbishop of Sydney while performing the functions
of his holy office in the cathedral itself. Such
errors of judgment can have but one effect—the
discrediting of the cause for which Mr. Goreski
stands, a cause which we have always recognised as
strong enough to. rest on its inherent merits. We
trust... .rash actions.... enthusiasm of youth....
Sydney Telegraph Yesterday Mr. Fritz Goreski
added to his highly irregular record by the destruc-
tion of a number of inoffensive public officials in
and about the Town Hall. This is by no means the
first affair of the sort. The so-called Potts Point
pogiom, which is estimated to have reduced
the attendance figures at the synagogue by 20 per
cent., the slaughter of the Archbishop of Sydney
and a number of his flock —these and other indis-
cretions have placed a stain upon Bolshevism’s shield
which it will take all its supporters’ subtle sophis-
tries to wipe away. Speaking for ourselves, we are
frankly doubtful about the new panacea. We stand
where we have always stood —for Freetrade and
justice to . the Mother State. While thought-
less extremists such as Mr. Goreski are centring
attention upon themselves the Federal Government
is enabled to pursue its way unhampered, wasting
money upon bush capitals and dreaming wild
uneconomic dreams of North-South Trans-Con-
tinental Railways. Let us. .. .moderation. .. .sane
reform Federal grabbers inequitable discrim-
mation. . . .discredited National Government.
. *I( Triad : -And so poor Wooster has gone : and
with him Biffkins, the incomparable fellow who, in
a uniform of his own strange designing was
wont to frank one through the Town Hall portals
when Carnival was afoot and Beauty smiled. La!
, • Psy o’t 1.... Fresh from the planning
of a the dansant came Wooster. Not, you will
understand, one of those functions to which the hot
jades and wanton women of our Society repair. To
him, the trull, the easy lady, the naughty little
devil (bless her!) were abhorrent. There was a
Calvin flavor about Edwin Adolphus Wooster, and
he would not plan and contrive for other than the
recognisedly estimable. A certain tessitura , an
allegro But let it pass. Appeared suddenly, as
it were from nowhere, the man Goreski, thinker,
leader, artist in butchery, what you will. Wooster
swings on his heel, flings careless speech to a
subordinate, is saluted..«.Biff! A meataxe cleaves
his innocuous skull. 1-a grande ambition des femmes
est croyez-moi, d’inspirer de l’amour * And so they
took him away and laid him on a bed of marigold
and hyssop, a sprig of amaranth in his pale hands.
Quid non cogit amor ft... . Ohfe ! Lit ! lii 1
*Bunke’s Dictionary of Quotations,”’ p 7
ilbid., p. 26. 1
The Toiler’s Friend Ex-Count WessensteiN
writes: Still another blow upon the craven solar
plexus of Capitalism.
Up the Reds! Up Humanity’s undying cause!
Up, above all, our hero-leader, Comrade Fritz
Addelvaa Goreski !
When Wooster weltered upon the Town Hal] floor
yesterday afternoon there ebbed a life that has been
all reaction.
And. the same applies to his miserable bourgeois
minion, Biffkins. b
Down with all such, so that from their detestable
ashes a Regenerated World may arise!
See p. 2 for advt. of a cheap line in egg and
incendiary bombs. Also, an 18-pr. Q.F. gun with
00 guaranteed rounds and dial and telescope sights
and drag-ropes complete. Hardlv used at all A
real snap.
“Tin-plates, Free.”
What this country wants is to get industries
started that Acting-Prime Minister Watt
doesn t know about. That weary Titan an-
nounces that he hopes to get the tin-plate
industry going inside six months—not, ap-
parently, by using the plain old tariff policy
as a preliminary, but by “organisation” and
co-ordination” and the “correlation of in-
dustrial forces” and the other nolysyllables
that his Government is so fond of. ’ When
a railway system is so fixed that no train,
not even on a branch line at Goff’s Harbor,
can start till the Commissioner personally
blows the whistle, there is a very poor ser-
vice and presently there is a dead Commis-


, :
wmm
WSSmHBm
r Che ”
.THE PREMIER HOTEL IN THE COMMONWEALTH
THE RENDEZVOUS OF THE ELITE.
ENTERTAIN YOUR FRIENDS
IN THE WINTER GARDEN at
Horning: Tea, Afternoon Tea or
Theatre Supper—Strawberries and
Cream, Fruit Salads, Ices, Delect-
able Confections and Cool Drinks to
your fancy.
Say or 'Phone Your Requirements,
and our Experts do the rest.
. The Manager.
r
n m
S*"*i
sioner. The Watt-Hughes system, which
tries to combine free or low-tariff imports
with high-wage local industry, means that
the train doesn’t begin to move till the per-
spiring Government, after months of pre-
paration and perspiration, blows the horn
by the aid of a big subsidy, and then, as a
rule, it suddenly remains more stationary
than ever. Nobody believes that a subsidy
will last. What is wrong with the tin-
plate industry in the first place is this one
line in Australia’s preferential tariff: —
Tinned Plates and Tin Sheets.... Free.
That, combined with high wages and lack of
experience, explains why there isn’t likely
to be a self-supporting tin-plate industry in
Australia, even though Watt wears himself
to a skeleton. There may, it is true, be a
pauper one, which will last as long as it is
heavily subsidised out of the taxes, and no
longer.
Sydney Doesn’t Want It.
After inspection :—•
Because Sydney thinks it could spare the Quaran-
tine Station at North Head and the terrors it occa-
sionally holds, a party of politicians and pressmen
went exploring last week and re-discovered Jervis
Bay, where the wool ships used to load for Lon-
don long ago, before N. S. Wales built its railway
system and ran all the trade of the State to Sydney.
The water of the bay is beautifully deep and blue,
and is fringed with gleaming white beaches. There
are no steamers on the water, no people visible on
the sands, and no clusters of roofs among the endless
trees. Huskisson, the little holiday and fishing town-
ship, is the local Circular Quay or Port Melbourne.
Save for Huskisson, the red-roofed Naval College far
away to the south and the white pillar of the light-
house on Point Perpendicular at the entrance are the
only signs of settlement.
It is the ideal place to throw off clothes and for-
get how to work ; but that sort of thing can be done
just as well up shallow creeks and on open ocean
beaches. There are in Jervis 24,320 acres of water
with a greater depth than 24 feet. Sydney has
14,285 acres. Sydney has 35 feet at the entrance.
Jervis has a lordly 90 feet on its rocky ocean door-
step, and the liner of the future will be able to
steam two miles up the bay before the water shoals
to less than 66 feet. At present it is a deserted
parlor of trade upholstered in blue, and its light-
house is a mere coastal lamp-post. Occasionally in
stormy weather it gets a line when “S.S. Tinkettle
sheltering at Jervis Bay” comforts the anxious
readers of the shipping notes. Its trade statistics
could be crowded on to a stamp.
But, because Sydney doesn’t want it, starved Jer-
vis is welcome to the Quarantine Station ; wherefore
the little Captain Cook, after doing a 10-mile run
across, sent its people ashore for a brief three-
quarters of an hour on the North Head to get what
idea they could of the 8000 acres of State territory
available. Then the vessel’s siren v ailed twice,
the explorers hurried aboard, and the vessel steamed
slowly across to the southern side, where, with a
fresh north-easter blowing across many miles of open
water, it rolled in front of the alternative
site —a strip of Federal territory. If the station
should eventually be placed there, optimists may
reckon that the Federal capital (135 miles inland
and still unconnected by rail with its strictly-limited
seaport of 28 square miles) has made some sort of
a start towards destiny.
After a long look from seaward, at that virgin
shore where the natural phenomenon known as the
Hole in the Wall looks like the muzzle of a giant
gun aimed at the Future, some of the excursionists,
seasick and tired of looking at the blank face of
the forest, urged the captain to go full speed for
Huskisson, on the way to Sydney, where the sky-
scrapers reach towards the stars and every foot of
the harbor-front is used.
Jervis is not fit for a quarantine station. It was
designed by Providence to be a great port, and by
now should be in the position of having a quarantine
station'of its own to give away. Perhaps a later gen-
eration will have more enterprise and imagination.
If you look hard enough you can see the home roofs
clustering behind the blue water and white beaches,
and hear the whistle of the trains along the hills.
-—— ■+
According to Dr. Walter Broavn tubercular
disease is still on the increase in South Aus.
In referring to the reports of the Ralyra
Sanatorium for Consumptives, he states that
in his report for 1914 he pointed out that
the percentage number of notifications of
pulmonary t.b., in the State had been
fairly constant from year to year; if any-
thing, there had been an increase. Now, four
years later, there has been a decided in-
crease. The average number of notifications
per 100,000 for the 14 years ending 1913
was 103 ; the average for the past four years
was .117; the figure for 1917 was 140. The
deaths per .100,000 have also taken an up-
ward turn, rising gradually from 67 in 1914
to 84 in 1917. Apparently all that has been
done in the fight with consumption is that
there has been a lengthening of the average
life of a consumptive by increased efficiency
in treatment. As far as science knows at
present the disease can be eradicated from
the community only by prevention, and it
is in this direction that the national effort
should be thrown.
Senator Millen has had a suggestion laid
on his doormat by Horace Richardson,
M.L.C. for the South-Western Province
(Vic.). Richardson's idea, which has
occurred to lots of other people, and no
doubt to the named Millen himself, is that
the average sum likely to be paid to returned
soldiers for their re-establishment should be
taken as the basis for forming various
“pools," the money thus set apart to be used
for building up a line of co-operative indus-
tries. Suppose that the average was taken
at £5O a head, the capital available to start
100 men in a joint undertaking would be
£5OOO. The industry that occurs to Rich-
ardson as most suitable is the pioneer-
timber trade —dealing with the raw material
in the forest, cutting building sizes and other
marketable timbers and using all the waste
for by-products, such as wood alcohol, acetic
acid, eucalyptus oil, potash, charcoal and so
on. Richardson suggests that the sawdust
should be used for firekindlers, and no doubt
it should be possible to start a small plant
for making clothes-pegs. Australia really
will hare to start this peg enterprise some
time. Numerous private firms are making
a do of the forest-timber business in Victoria
and other States; and it should be a reason-
ably easy job, considering the existing Gov-
ernment facilities in roads, railways, season-
ing-kilns and so forth, to get a lot of re-
turned man on the move at something
better than wages—replanting the cleared
lands with young trees from the State nur-
series as they go through the timber, and
thus showing Private Enterprise that it
really is possible to improve on present
devastating methods.
♦
By Robert Harper’s death Australia loses
a solid, useful citizen. As a commercial
man he built up one of the Commonwealth’s
biggest manufacturing houses, and had the
courage to spend enough money to make the
Australian goods familiarly known all over
the country. As financier and earnest
Federalist he did great service—none the
less great because so far it has not borne
fruit—in connection with the Federalising
of Australia’s public debts. In politics
one Premier and Prime Minister after
another, in Harper’s 20 years or more of
Parliamentary life, paid him the compliment
of not asking him to join the Cabinet.
Apart from the damning circumstance that
he didn’t have the genial temperament,
Robert Harper was much too independent
a thinker to be satisfactory to any machine;
and that he had a rocky road tven in his
electorates was more to his credit than
otherwise.
Some people are fretful over the Defence
Department’s action in banning fireworks in
metropolitan areas during the Peace celebra-
tions. Sydney Telegraph has adopted the
“harmless cracker’’ line of argument. It is
a poor one. A plaything which was, to all
appearances, an ordinary “hunger” could
be, in reality, an incendiary bomb capable of
doing an astonishing amount of damage to
the new Telegraph offices. Mills bombs
are smaller than rockets. Ask any returned
infantryman what a Mills bomb can dp.
As a matter of fact, the world is facing the
“harmless cracker” proposition from a new
angle. Sabotage, which may be anything
from slowing down on a job to blowing up
a Government office, is in the air. For four
years millions of men have been trained to
make bombs of every sort. A cracker is
merely a diluted bomb. Why encourage the
promiscuous handling of articles which may
be mere foolishness designed to make the
jumpy jump, but which may equally be
camouflaged engines of death and destruc-
tion? Australia has been remarkably casual
in all such matters: the individual with
the peculiar manner and the loaded gun has
been allowed to wander at large till the
tragedy occurred; while the state of the
different -Poisons Acts has done much for
the suicide records, and more for such
happenings as the recent poisoning of a
dairy herd at Faulconbridge (N.S.W.).
«
Paderewski, the musician, succeeds Ponia-
towski, the courtier, painter, dancer, ama-
teur soldier and clothier’s advertisement in
the troubled job of head of the Polish re-
public. The interval is 123 years. Pader-
ewski’s ability in his own line is un-
rivalled ; his patriotism is unquestioned;
his hair is uncut; his courage may probably
be taken for granted. But it is difficult
to imagine any country save dreamy, im-
practical Poland selecting this spoiled child
of melody to do battle with Huns and Bol-
sheviks ; to argue patiently and plausibly
with diplomatists about boundaries and get
the last possible ounce of concession out
of them, and to struggle with a Treasury
that has been in difficulties since the year
800 or thereabouts. Pad. has lived in an
atmosphere of assured victory. His finances
have shown an easy surplus most of his
life. He has had a Divine Right at the
piano, and he has been accustomed to send
the stage-manager or the orchestra into
exile just like a Romanoff. He compelled
silence with his eye, and once in Sydney he
struck in the middle of a performance be-
cause a window creaked. There is hardly
a sound window left in Poland, which may
upset his nerves to begin with, and local
politics have always been inharmonious.
Bagpipes aren’t a circumstance to them.
Paderewski’s enthusiasm lifted him to the
Doge’s chair. His reddish mane has
crackled with electric fire all through the
war, and his efforts to rouse the world on
behalf of his country were heroic. But now
he has got a job which calls for an inspired
bricklayer, pawnbroker, farmer and sanitary
engineer and a lieaven-born alderman. He
may surprise the world, but at the age of
59 a man is almost too old to learn even a
new style of hairdressing.
By “Henry IIorsecollar” :
A certain “Ulsterman,” whom I regard as a rotten
historian, says (B. 9/l/’l9) that the Scots
moved from Ireland to Scotland, and gave that
country its name, so that when some of them went
to Ulster, then “almost completely depopulated,
partly through wars between different clans, but
chiefly through wars with the English,” they were
really going home. I would call this sheer idiocy,
only such language would cause the editor to
reject this paragraph and then I wouldn’t be
paid for it. The Scots, who spoke a Gaelic
language similar to the Irish, certainly moved
into the Highlands (Argyllshire was their first
stronghold) and either absorbed the old Painted
People or shoved them into parts unknown. They
gave their name to Scotland, and they had some
sort of throne in the Highlands, and 47 alleged
kings with names like Congardus and Dougallus
and Amberkeletus were of their race. But in
some way, about which history isn’t very clear, the
capital shifted from the Highlands, which were
Scot, to the Lowlands, which were mostly Saxon
and partly British, British being pre-Scot and
pre-Saxon and also pre-Roman. The kings, who
began to be called by Greek names like Alexander,
and Norman ones like William and Robert, instead
of Dougallus, took the name of the country with
them, just as another set of sovereigns moved from
Rome to the conquered territory of Macedonia, and
took the Roman name and empire with them.
Saxon Edinburgh, calling itself Scottish, began to
send bumptious orders to the old Scottish capital
and the real Scottish people, just as Constantinople
began to send orders to Rome. The all-per-
vading Norman soaked in, as he did everywhere.
Robert Bruce was a Norman, and while he and
all his descendants called themselves Scots, they
looked on the real Scots as slush. A time came
when a king who was Norman-French and called
himself Scot sent a colony of Saxons or mostly
Saxons who called themselves Scots to Ireland.
They were going home, just as a Greek colony
would be if it settled in Yorkshire (England) be-
cause York was a Roman capital before the English
existed, and the Greeks took over Rome as a
going concern. Of course the visitors at Belfast
have a right to be as much Irish as the other
mixed races in Ireland, most races being mixed.
The trouble is that they won’t be Irish —-only
Ulster. When an alien race keeps on celebrating
for 227 years a petty victory which it partly
gained in a bog under a Dutch general and with
the aid of Dutch mercenary troops over the Irish
population, it evidently means to be alien, not
Irish. And the friction they keep alive by letting
off crackers to celebrate that Dutch victory in a
bog makes the biggest problem the British Empire
is up against.
Tasmanian Parliament meets in special
session this week to select a successor to
Senator Long, who shook the dust from his
wings the other day with considerable
indignation. This special session was the
only way out of a “grave responsibility” for
the Lee Ministry, which otherwise would
have had the job of appointing somebody
to the vacancy at the great risk of offending
many friends. Both Houses of Parliament,
sitting together, will now shoulder the
burden. Ex-Senator Mulcai-iy, junior mem-
ber for Wilmot Division, has been mentioned
most persistently; but when the 48 legis-
lators (37 Liberals or “Nationalists” and
11 Laborites) have looked at the matter,
it is not quite certain at the moment
of writing what will happen. The
latest amendment of the Tas. Electoral
Act, which provided, among other things,
that a State vacancy shall be filled by
the next on the list at the last general
election is one nuisance. For instance, if
Mulcahy gets the Senate position, it is
pretty certain that his successor in the State
House would be Norman Cameron, and
Cameron is just about the last man the
Lee crowd desires to crown with favors of
any sort. So there is a chance of Mulcahy
missing the Senate nomination after all.
And as something almost as uncomfortable
for the Lee party seems likely to happen if
a sitting supporter is translated from Bass,
Darwin, Franklin and Denison divisions—in
two at least of these divisions the railway
pass and the six months’ salary would
probably have to be handed over to a Labor
man—the appointment of any Assembly
follower to the Senate looks like something
that Premier Lee ought to want to avoid.
Lloyd George is where he is because he
is the embodiment of what the best type of
Britisher has been feeling since 191 b. He
has been almost alone in the capacity to put
aside all his old prejudices —Freetrade, Home
Buie, dis-establishment, and the jargon of
pacificism—in order to get on with the war.
There is no one that he has hesitated to
collaborate with, honestly and generously,
to that end. He has thus been associated
variously with men like Carson, Lansdowne
and Long, and always, at a pinch, he showed
out as reasonable and patient and single-
minded in the prosecution of his huge job.
On the platform he is the greatest revivalist
or enthuser of the day, and privately the
charm of his personality is great. Above
all he is an adventurer, one of the band to
which Disraeli, Rhodes and Chamberlain
belonged. Nothing has ever daunted him, nor
ever will. The British like to be led by
that sort of man in their dark and doubtful
hours.
It was the late Robert Harper’s air of
self-righteousness, rather than his intense
respectability, that hurt his fellow-members
of the House. When he took the daughter
of dour Rev. Cairns to wife he practically re-
nounced all human right to appear unholy
in this world, and thenceforth he cultivated
a saintly cast of countenance in all save his
full, bold eyes. They continued to explain
his long-ago title of “fighting Bob” ; for in
business and financial enterprise and politi-
cal effort Robert Harper was ever combative
and resourceful. Probably he never scored
a point without considering himself justi-
fied. But one remembers what Labouchere
said about Gladstone after the G.O.M. had
euchred him on some political issue. “I
wouldn’t mind the old fox always having an
ace up his sleeve,” said Labby, “if he didn’t
invariably pretend that God Almighty put
it there.” Where he could afford to unbend
the deceased elder was quite a good sort.
When upon his perch of virtuous dignity he
was too darned good altogether.
At Auckland (M.L.) the other day there
came to light a craft with a dark shadow
on her past. About 38 years ago the
Jeanette, brigantine, was an auxiliary vessel
in an American expedition that set forth in
the belief that it could circumnavigate the
globe by way of the Arctic Sea. Above
Siberia' the Jeanette was frozen in and
squeezed on to the ice surface. The position
of her complement was desperate, and with
food and fuel running short the men had
the choice of certainly perishing where they
were or probably perishing in an attempt
to go down to the boundaries of mankind.
Only four of them survived the unspeakable
privations. Two or three years later an
expedition looking for other possible sur-
vivors came upon the Jeanette. She was
salved, did some whaling, and for some time
has been trading in the South Seas.
Cecil McVilly, one-time amateur sculling
champion of Australia and winner of the
Diamond Sculls, was one of the 400 officers
picked for the Baku expedition. They went
through Persia and across the Caspian to
organise the local Armenians against the
Turks. Things looked promising for a time
and they had 40,000 Armenians well armed
and on the job. But in the end the poor
truck turned dog on them and ran, while a
Bolshevik section made a valiant effort to
sell the Allied officers to the Turks, and it
was only by the skin of their teeth that any
of them got out of Baku. McVilly was
among the last to leave.
Brigadier-General Brand, the new Vic.
Commandant, went away in the First Fleet
as Brigade-Major of the Third (Inf.) Bri-
gade. He got his Battalion on the Peninsula
and a Brigade in France. He was a perma-
nent soldier before the war, and back of that
a school-teacher in Queensland. He is in
the forties, a C. 8., C.M.G. and D. 5.0., and
a first-rate man, whether as a fighter or as
an administrator. If he had escaped the bad
luck to be drafted for furlough just before
the Armistice he would have had an excel-
lent chance of a Division on the preferment
of General Hobbs.
Arthur Balfour, Secretary of State for
Foreign Affairs in Lloyd-George’s just-
reconstructed Ministry, is the truest extant
type of that baffling institution, the English
Gentleman. No one has ever been able to
satisfactorily define an English gentleman,
but it is universally agreed that, anyhow,
Balfour is It —despite the fact that he is
Scotch. _ Intellectually Balfour stands high
above his colleagues. On this plane Lloyd-
George, for instance, who has been described
as the possessor of “a kind of sublime illit-
eracy,” is infinitely below him. It was a
subtle stroke of British diplomacy to send
Balfour to America in 1917. He beat Wilson
out of sight at the latter’s own game of cul-
tivated generalisations on the ethics of states-
manship. _ Balfour has held almost every
high British office from the Premiership
downwards; is the author of a theological
classic (“The Foundations of Belief”) ; is 70
and looks about 50; and is easijy the worst-
dressed man, from the standpoint of the
Tailor and Cutter, in either House.


WHY
Write
not consult
THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE
(STATE GUARANTEE), WHO ACTS AS
EXECUTOR, TRUSTEE, ADMINISTRATOR, ATTORNEY and AGENT.
Expert, Efficient and Economical Management,
or call for full particulars, CULWULLA CHAMBERS, 67 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
T' W. GARRETT, Public Trustee.
&
YG
BOORD&SO*
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
■
&
DT
Swift & Company Ltd., Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney
Insure with AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED Head Office: Corner Pitt
OUVlfyl 1 l/ilvIA 11/1/■ & King Streets, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: 50 Queen Street, Melbourne. 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
FIRE &. ACCIDENT INSURANCES EFFECTED.
PROMPT SETTLEMENTS. EQUITABLE DEALING
SYDNEY H. CARY. Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE. General Manager.
A HAT OF EXCLUSIVE STYLE.
i - r
A/”'
Men who prefer to dress moderately and who
exclude extremes of style will find in this
Australian hat a shape according with their
preference.
It is a new-style “Warrigal” hat, with smooth-
finished tapered crown and flat-set brim, turned
edge and contrasting hands.
Colors: Light and Medium Grey, Fawn, and Nut
Brown. Reference No. H 504. Price.. 13/6
Peapes’ pay postage.
New Catalogue on request.
PEAPES ca CO. LTD.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 &. ail GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Hello, Everybody I”
Criterion “Potash & Perlmutter”
Royal “Katinka”
Palace “De Luxe Annie”
Tivoli “Everybody’s Doing It”
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Goody Two Shoes”
Royal ...». “Nothing but the Truth”
Tivoli “Bubbly”
King’s “Jack and Jill”
Princess’s “Cavalleria” and “I Pagliacci”
Hoyt’s Db Luxe k Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Follies, St. Kilda .. .John N. McCallum’s Courtiers
The gorgeous and crowded “Hello, Every-
body !” is still flourishing its 600 legs in 17
scenes, and changing costumes with extra-
ordinary speed, at Her Majesty’s (Sydney).
Scene No. S, “The Patent Office,” is about
the best comedy effort. George Welch as
the mousetrap crank grows madder in a con-
fidential way every night, and the lunatic
with the gun that counts the rabbits as it
shoots them rushes in and out with his cash-
register artillery until he is shoved into the
office furnace or cast down the lift-well.
“Oh, Oh, Delphine!” finishes at the Royal
(Sydney) on Friday night. Next evening
the Royal Comics start a revival of “Katin-
ka.” It may be expected to start the “Rac-
kety Coo” epidemic again.
The long wrangle of “Friendly Enemies”
ends on Friday night at the Criterion (Syd-
ney). On Saturday, the co. headed by Adams
and Waters begins its farewell with a brief
revival of “Business Before Pleasure.” M.
B. Figman, consigned to the Cri., is already
in sight. He brings “Nothing but the
Truth.”
* * *
Emelie Polini, in “De Luxe Annie,” keeps
the Palace (Sydney) busy these summer
nights. One lure of the fast and clever play
is the shivering fugitives’ entrance to the
closed house with the chill of winter and
desertion heavy upon it. That scene goes
like a soothing draught from the ice-chest.
“Everybody’s Doing it” (second edition)
still rattles its clogs at the Tivoli (Sydney).
In the new distribution of songs, young Jean
Keith drew something entitled’ “Just a
Baby’s Prayer at Twilight.’’ The title is
enough to make. strong men steal out of their
seats and step lightly for the open air. How-
ever, the tender wail is not as distressing as
its title; or perhaps it is Jean’s art that
saves it.
fit iffy and Mo. are still on their motor
walking tour at Sydney Opera House; and
Dame Merritt and her good donkey Herb,
find time for lots of laughs in the intervals
of looking for “The Babes in the Wood.”
Sydney Lyceum is showing the Hun
on the run in an allegedly authentic series
named “The Relief of Lille.” On the same
“De Luxe Annie,” at
Sydney Palace.
Cyril Mackay as
Jimmy Fitzpatrick,
the hero crook.
programme little
Mae Marsh is busy
saving Dad and
unwittingly involv-
ing the best boy
(it’s in a stirring
mystery called
“The Face in the
Dark” written
around an emptied
cash box), while
misjudged Gloria
Swanson is refut-
ing the suspicions
of her statesman
husband in “The
Secret Code” and
proving that she
is a good wife and
a loyal citizen.
Strand and Crystal
Palace discourse
concerning “The
Appearance o f
Evil ” and have
the good taste to
secure a. nice-look-
ing girl like June
Elvidge to point
the moral. At
Hoyt’s Elsie Fer-
guson is seeking
The Song of Songs.” How she strikes the
false trail now and again makes the story.
But Elsie is a nice girl and every-
body is glad when the Song bursts
triumphantly into good old Mendelssohn be-
fore the final close-up. Doug. Fairbanks
breezes into the same house as a newspaper
cub, in “Say, Young Fellow!” and Charles
the Great is fun-maker and Hun-breaker at
the Globe, Lyric, Crystal Palace and
Strand in “Shoulder Arms!”
“Goody Two Shoes” is still travelling on
a thousand twinkling feet at Her Majesty’s
(Melb.). The amount of “Goody” in the
show is little more than the title, so the
Demon, who is supposed to deprive her of
her peace of mind, is an unemployed person
trying to establish his deviltry with a heavy
scowl and a superfluous gloat. All round,
though, the panto is a marvel of economy in
the opportunities allowed to the minor char-
acters. The Mayor of Blossomville, for
instance, is hardly more than a phantom.
Then there are a youth named Ronnie and
a damsel called Zoe, who endeavor to rejoice
in their infrequency with an anxious Wizard
who achieves his greatest publicity in the
line-up at the end. These characters are
practically spectators who are paid to be
present, though in the cases of the Mayor
and the magician they should get a bit more
to stay away.
The double bill of “Cavalleria” and “Pag-
liacci,” which commences the Rigo season at
the Princess’s (Melb.) next Saturday, will
be made interesting by mixed Italian and
Australian casts. So far as local knowledge
goes, practically all the artists are new to
their jobs, only Balboni and Lois repeating
the tenor roles which they did formerly in
Melbourne for the old Gonsalez co. Count
Filippini in “Cavalleria” and Cacialli in
“Pagliacci” will be the novelties in the bari-
tone parts, formerly embellished with healthy
realism by the much-missed Scamuzzi. The
leading sopranos will be Leah Meyers (San-
tuzza) and Nellie Leach (Nedda).
The vast fabric of veracity erected by
M. B. Figman in “Nothing But the Truth”
is still a matter for moderate wonderment at
the Royal (Melb.). Here and there Figman
continues to play his part twice by illustrating
the spoken word with an effusive gesture, but
composure is rapidly settling upon him and
will soon make him a comparatively immo-
bile citizen with both arms and most of his
countenance on the unemployed list. Fig-
man naturally makes friends by his inherent
geniality, and the show would be more cheer-
ful if the same could be said of two of the
other conspirators, young Pirie Bush and
Mac Barnes.
“Jack and Jill,” at the King’s (Melb.), is
still a scramble of irrelevant events in which
Carl, the Hunchback, gets few chances to
arouse public interest in the Magic Crown.
All the same, Carl attains a special signifi-
cance by uttering deep, throaty threats from
“Do Luxe Annie,” at
Sydney Palace.
Arthur Greenaway as
Hall Kendal . the
grief-stricken hus-
band.
a figure which
probably has no
parallel in panto-
mime history. Carl
suggests Falstaff
with a dash of
Tonio in “Pag-
liacci,” but the
conical cranium
belongs to another
order of architec-
ture, and the legs
w T ould take the eye
of a specialist in
dropsy. The panto.,
which grows heavy
and ominous when
Carl appears, be-
comes more frivol-
ous in other direc-
tions. .A Iso various
changes have come
to pass and con-
tinue to occur with
bewildering fr e-
quency. No one
show is ever a
, replica of its pre-
decessor. Between two consecutive per-
formances someone may fall out or someone
6lse fall in, or Barry Lupino may discover
a fresh gag.
* * *' *
“The Lie,” presumably adapted from
Henry Arthur Jones’s “Liars,” is the
medium in which Elsie Ferguson is adding
to her pile of haloes at Hoyt’s (Melbourne)
this week. Elsie’s impersonation of Elinor
is grades above ordinary movie pantomime,
in Say, Young Fellow!” which is Hoyt’s
second feature, Douglas Fairbanks joins the
inky Way and is more Wayward than Inky
in all Ins assignations. Vivian Martin, now
almost a. weekly victim of uncommon situa-
V°n S ’ * s time auctioned for a bag of
dollars as “Unclaimed Goods.” Also Ford
► telling reappears in another grotesque
comedy called “Her Screen Idol.” The
Majestic, which apparently holds a mort-
gage on Constance Talmadge, stars that
saucy young woman in “Mrs. Leffingwell’s
Loots. ’ Constance’s complications could
never have happened if her best boy had not
been a particular ass. The Majestic’s second
spasm, The Golden Wall,” shows Carlyle
Blackwell and Evelyn Greeley together in
the final lap.
“Bubbly,” at the Tivoli (Melb.), continues
to talk of any old thing that suits the whim
ot its many producers. The subjects range
irom a bit of O. Henry, stolen from the dull-
est page of “The Four Million,” to a jest
about a wishbone and a remarkable deal in
clothes, where the infinitesimal Rego is mis-
fitted with a slop suit. The incidents that
get the loudest laughs generally have the
little man bobbing up in the middle, and he
ever scores the fullest approval because his
original line of quaintness refuses to grow
old. Beatrice Holloway is now out of the
cast, and Ethel Bennetto and Clarice Hard-
wicke are sharing her duties.
Adelaide shows are pleasant rather than
exciting. The Tivoli has closed for awhile,
after a season of gentle and unusual panto-
mime run entirely by young girls. The
principal discovery is Eileen James as that
rare thing, a female-child low-comedian. The
funny gymnastic work of the Camille trio
brightens the bill at the Majestic, to which
house also the Togos have come on a return
visit, and Vaude and Verne have some new
cross-talk. In the open air are Sydney
James and Co. at Austral Gardens, and the
“Goody Two Shoes,”
at Her Majesty's,
Melbourne.
Arthur Stigant as the
bride.
Gaieties behind the
Exhibition. In pic-
tures, the Royal—•
which announces
that it is going
back to its proper
function as a home
of the. spoken
drama—is mean-
while showing as
much of “Thais” as
tiro censors will
allow; Wonder-
graph asks for pub-
lic sympathy be-
cause it has four
star films and feels
compelled to put
Elsie Ferguson,
Sessue Hayakawa,
Wallace Reid and
Chester Conklin all
in the programme
at once. West’s
put up Mrs. Lef-
fingwell’s Shoes,” a lesson in conjugal sus-
picion. The management thoughtfully
announces that “suspecting husbands may
reserve special seats.”
The proposal that members of the Sea-
men’s Union should refuse to man any ves-
sel _ that carries Senator Pearce on his
ridiculous and expensive demobilisation job
is highly interesting. There is precedent of
one sort in the case of the British Seamen’s
Union, which refused to let any of its men
help m the transportation of certain pro-Hun
politicians.. And there is precedent of an-
other sort in an earlier case when the vessel
—a small sailing craft-had actually started
before toe union made up its mind that the
passenger was obnoxious, in consequence of
which decision the union threw him over-
board. In the present instance the matter
has been taken in time, so if the decision is
against Pearce it won’t be necessary to cast
him into the deep or leave him on an island.
-Lhe feeamen’s Union has very large powers
in places like Britain and Australia, if it
likes to use them. But it can’t control
Malay proas; wherefore The Bulletin sug-
gests to Pearce to get in early and hire a
sailing-boat from Malacca to pick
him up somewhere on the North Queensland
coast.
People still exist—or rather cease to exist
■who fish for a little fleeting post mortem
notoriety by leaving their beans to the
i lDg j Maoriland testator has just en-
dowed George V. with £lOO,OOO. Any man with
a taste for originality and a hunger for en-
xil^wT,n fa ™ e would do better to leave his
±lOO,OOO m trust to accumulate at com-
pound interest for the extinction of the
g ubl “ debt It would be a long job, so the
omith Sinking Fund ought to be as enduring
a monument as St. Paul’s. Presently, it
may be, other men would crave for a similar
monument, and the Brown Sinking Fund
would follow. But Smith, as the originator,
would be remembered as the man who in-
vented a new habit, and in a world which
has almost every habit except this one he
would rank with the Seven Wonders and be
above kings.
In Sydney three young women have been
charged with being “idle and disorderly
persons, having insufficient means of sup-
port. The first part of the charge was
proved that is to say, constables swore to
disoiderliness observed through keyholes
and other apertures. The ladies then stated
the case for the defence, which was, simply,
that they all had £lO or more in banks
As soon as this was established the magis-
trate had to discharge them. The astound-
ing law is, roughly, that if a woman is a
peisistent and voracious Rahab, with money
m the bank, she is more or less unassailable,
whereas,, if she is only an occasional and
pecunious practitioner, she goes down.
Nothing. succeeds like success—even in
prostitution.
Arrested his last criminal, William Mit-
chell, one of Adelaide’s best-known detec-
tives. He was, with Edwards, the present
Commissioner of Police in Adelaide, the
fe.A. part of the bodyguard of King George
m Australia in 1901. Only 53 at the end. '
“Goody Two Shoes,”
at Her Majesty's,
Melbourne.
Fred Walton as the
toy soldier.
John Jacob Cohen,
who has repre-
sented the good
Liberal seat of
Petersham for
nearly 21 years in
N. S. Wales
Assembly and has
been Speaker for
the last two, is to
be “rewarded” with
a District Court
Judgeship. Some-
thing like a sigh of
relief will go up
in Macquari e-
street, not that he
w a s a partial
Speaker, but he
was finicky and
microscopically
technical, and
seemed to fear
that the Opposi-
tion would arise
simultaneously and
all speak at once.
This kept him
pegging away with
bis wet blanket of
“Order!” At times
he was in the mood
not to see how an
argument was con-
nected, and then the
lion, member on his
feet might just as
well sit down even
though the argu-
ment and the motion were as closely re-
lated as the Siamese twins.
Dead at the century, John Butler Wood,
late of Brundah Creek, Grenfell (N.S.W.).
He was settled at Brundah before the Wed-
dm diggings (now Grenfell) broke out On
his retirement his son took up farming on
shares and made much coin out of wheat.
Ex-N. S. Wales Police Superintendent
, aunderson, who died last week, was one of
those who in the old bushranging days fol-
low (,a^diner from Eugowra Rocks to the
\\ eddin Mountain—a close chase that com-
pelled the outlaw to abandon his pack-horse
and 12390 z. of the best.
A sort of definition has been put to the
Government’s attitude re air-navigation. Air-
ships are a useful device for spying out a
country’s fortifications, camps, arsenals,
munition-factories, naval depots, shipbuild-
mg yards, fleets, etc. And though Australia
isn t exactly teeming with these things, it
is suggested that no foreign air-machine or
privately-owned Australian machine should
be allowed to fly—in fact, that every air-
vessel should be under Government control.
A crowd which plays at little tin soldiers in
this earnest fashion may end by putting all
buggies under Government control. The sus-
picious way in which buggies are liable to
linng around Australia’s big-cannon foun-
dries is alarming.
Premier Ryan (Q.) is going to make
Cheap Food plank No. 1 of his platform
when he enters FederaJ politics. Yet in his
own headquarters at Brisbane potatoes were
dearer the other day than they had been for
. y ear s, and many other things were
similar. Ryan has cheap meat to his credit
(it happened that the State had a super-
abundance of beef) ; but when it comes to
cheap anything else he seems much the same
as the rest.
In a voice half-choked by suppressed emo-
tion the Akgus complains that “the wages
claimed under the Australian Tramway Em-
ployees’ log show a decided increase on those
at present prevailing, which are from 50
per cent, to 100 per cent, higher than those
paid 1.0 years ago.” Possibly; but what
tnen.- 1 It is not necessarily any more out-
rageous for a man to ask £2 where he for-
merly got £1 than it is for a child to require
twice as much cloth for a suit when he
grows to be a man. It isn’t what a man
gets, but what he can buy with what he gets,
that matters. Incidentally, it matters just
as much to the employer as to the employed.
“B.”: It is significant that most of the
row in the British Army of late has been
fomented by the Army Service Corps. About
. cen t- of the work of the Army Ser-
vice Corps could be done by women. In
I lance the A.S.C. lived in comfort and rela-
tive safety miles behind the line. So notori-
ousiy cushy” was the job—even with peri-
ammunition- and provision-delivery
obligations of a more or less risky nature
thrown in—that the high-spirited “hated to
stay in it. And now they are the first to
give hope and encouragement to the eagerly-
watching Bolshevik crowd! The lead-
i™f r ahvays the first man to squeal,
whether in or out of the Army


PONS ASINORUM.


LEAD
British Owned and Controlled.
SILVER
The Bro Ken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
Smelting Works : Port Pirie, S.A. Coke Works : Bellambi, N.S.W.
Branch Offices:
LONDON: 8-9 Austin Friars, E.C. 2. ADELAIDE: 62 Brockman’s Building. SYDNEY: 25 O’Connell Street.
PRODUCERS OF
Soft Pig Dead Corroding Lead
Antimonial Lead Chemical Lead
Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated)
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated)
Linotype Metal, Litharge,
Antifriction SJetal
BUYERS ON A SPECIAEEY
FAVORABLE TARIFF OF
Silicious Silver-Eead Ores
Calamine Ores (High Grade;
Slags, etc., containing silver or lead
Lead Drosses, Zinc Drosses.
Registered
Brand.
LITHARC
All Enquiries to
be addressed to
the Secretary.
ANTIFRICTION
LINOTYPE
METALS
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Mortobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
STEEL CASTINGS.
We make the FINEST STEEL CASTINGS obtainable
ranging in weight from a Pound or so up to
SIX or EIGHT TONS ; also MANGANESE STEEL
CASTINGS of best quality.
It will be to your interest to let us have
your enquiries.
Chas. Ruwolt Pty. Ltd.,
Victoria Street, Richmon
i Victoria.
d,
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
The National Mutual Life Associa-
tion of Australasia :
Ex- Writ- Added
Sept., Income. Claims. penses. ten Off. Funds.
1905.. £702,906 £361,053 £138,370 £963 £262,520
1906.. 824,024 395,733 145,836 283,055
1907.. 898,253 374,509 157,512 1993 363.939
1908.. 970,611 407,168 162,342 4691 396,410
1909.. 1,043,801 449,95 V 157,147 427 436,270
1910.. 1,122,667 441,323 108,511 3640 509.193
1911.. 1,198,148 514,596 176,344 4744 502.404
1912.. 1,284,304 520,249 174,064 2016 587,435
1913.. 1,395,866 511,045 175,031 709.790
1914.. 1,479,109 591,062 177,491 710,556
1915.. 1,555,208 697,173 165,655 692,440
1910.. 1,663,128 763,001 165.805 731,322
1917.. 1,770,371 546.497 182,271 741.003
1918.. 1,921,765 876,989 204,737 840,039
The post-mortemist who cuts into the
National Mutual’s latest report unearths a
series of pleasant surprises. To begin with,
the Association got in a record lot of new
business during the year—ll,BBs policies
assuring £4,320,512, which was £073,000
more than in the previous best year. The
National Mutual wrote its first policy in
1869, and, as the table shows, 40 years had
elapsed before the gross income had reached
the million mark. Now, after a further
nine years, the income is within coo-ee of
two millions. During the past 10 years
the management has practically doubled the
income which had resulted from the pre-
vious 39 years’ work. This rapid progress
has been made wholly with Ordinary
business; for the old martinet who founded
the concern refused to have anything to
do with “Industrial stuff,” though “Industrial
stuff” helps to feed many an Ordinary
branch. If there came a time when the
management felt sorry it had not gone into
the new line, it was probably then too
late to give chase to other concerns. How-
ever, the National Mutual did get a move
on and set out to establish itself in other
countries. Besides the Commonwealth and
Maoriland it is now operating in a big way
in S’Africa and Great Britain and Ireland,
while it also hangs out its sign in India,
Ceylon and the Straits Settlements.
Whether the big business figures it gets
that way are worth as much as the much
smaller figures it doubtless would have had
if it had stayed at home is a matter of
opinion. One thing is certain: the Aus-
tralian mortality rate is so favorable that
an Australian office’s experience isn’t
likely to be improved by taking in people
outside Australia. Still, admittedly that
doesn’t settle the matter. There are other
considerations.
The income for the past year has been
considerably helped by increased interest
earnings. In 1914 the revenue from this
source, after paying £13,624 in taxes, was
£404,702; for the past year net income was
£562,888, taxes taking £34,330. The loss
rate on account of war claims has, of course,
grown: admitted claims equalled 40 p.c.
of the income in 1914; 45.6 p.c. for the
past year. Of the £876,989 of claims met
during the 12 months, no less than £207,088
represented direct war losses. Bill of
Berlin has been responsible for £561,308 of
losses since hostilities began, and the
Association has not seen the last of the
trouble yet. These war claims represent
a heavy loss, for most of the policy-holders
were, young men who had paid little in
premiums, while the majority of the policies,
having been in force prior to 1934, were
free of war loading.
Though the expense rate was heavier
than in the previous two years, it is con-
siderably better than it used to be :
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
?905..£13 2 9 p.c. I 1914.. £l2 0 0 p.c.
1908.. 1614 6 „ 1915.. 1013 0 „
1910.. 15 0 3 „ I 1916.. 10 3 0 „
1912.. 13 11 11 „ | 1917.. io 511 ~
1913.. 12 10 9 „ | 1918.. 10 13 1 „
But in a year like the last, when a record
lot of new business was got in, the cost of
writing new policies is an important factor.
One method of figuring is to reckon
that the old, or renewal, business cost 7 p.c.
and the single premium business 3 p.c.,
and charge the balance of the exes, to
the new business. On this basis last year’s
new business expense rate works out at 69.9
p.c. Possibly the old business is being handled
for less than it used to be—standing
charges, for instance, have not advanced at
the same rate as business—and consequently
the cost of recent npw business is a little
more than is shown here. Even so, it
is clear from the following comparison that
last year’s new business was written more
cheaply than any previous lot:
Exes. New-
Chargeable Business
New to New Expense
Sept., Business. Business. Rate.
1900 .. £40,939 £04,767 158 2 p c
1910 .. 114,195 119,426 104.6 „
1914 .. 121,015 112,577 93.2,
1915 .. 118,357 97,229 82 1
1916 .. 126,850 96,229 75 8 ’
1917 . . 134,198 105,278 78 4 ,
1918 ... . .176,518 123,430 .69.9,,
If the National Mutual management was
stodgy in some respects, it at least was
bold in the matter of medical exams.
This office does not depend on the doctor
to anything like the extent of other con-
cerns. For instance, the medical exes, in
the A.M.P. for the year to Dec., 1!)17,
absorbed 8.4 p.c. of the new premiums. The
National Mutual’s figures work out this
way:—
Proportion of Medical Exes, to New Premiums.
New Medical
Premiums. Exes.
1903 .. £68,456 ' £7503 10.9 p.c.
1912 .. 120,518 7265 6.0 „
1913 .. 122,897 6737 5.4 „
1914 . . 121,015 6241 5.1 „
1915 .. 118,357 5091 4.3 „
1916 .. 126,850 5463 4.3 „
1917 .. 134,198 6134 4.6
1918 .. 176,518 7110 4.0 „
Policies accepted without medical examina-
tion are for small amounts and for limited
terms; but the loss ratio on this business
has been no larger than that on the total
business.
This shows how the interest earnings
have improved :—•
Interest Earned on Average Funds.
1900.. £4 13 2 p.c. | 1916.. £4 17 8 p.c.
1910. , 4 12 3,, | 1917. . 4 17 P
1914. . 410 8 ~ | 1918. . 419 9
What this means to the Association can be
judged by the fact that the improvement
of practically 3s. p.c. since 1914 on
£11.700.000 odd of funds now in hand is
equal to £17,550 p.a. The most striking
feature of recent balance-sheets has been
the growth of public securities:—
1900. 1910. 1914, 1917. 1918.
Public seeu-
rities . . 3.4p.c. 5.1 p.c. 6.9p.c. 16.5p.c. 23.8p.c.
Mortgages 50.5 ~ 55.1 „ 59.3 „ 54.8 ~ 49.1
Fore clos-
ures . . 4.4 „ 1.3 „ 0.6 „ 0.5 „ 0.3 „
Freeholds 12.7 ~ 12.8 ~ 9.9 ~ 8.2 7.4
Loans on
policies. .14.3 „ 9.8 ~ 9.4 ~ 9.1 ~ 8 5
Other assets 14:7 „ 15.9 ~ 13.9 ~ 10.9 „ 10.9 ”
When the war started the directors had
three-fifths of the funds in mortgages—
principally loans to producers—\bhile the
holding of gilt-edge stock was miserably weak.
However, at Sept.' 30 last two millions had
been put into War Loan, and further
parcels have since been taken up, though
almost half of the assets still consist of
mortgages. But things go well. With
the _ bulk of the war losses met, with a
diminishing expense rate and improved
interest earnings, bonus prospects are
brighter than thov ever were before.
* * * *
Stanmore Preserving Co., Ltd., Sydney,
jam manufacturers, fruit preservers, etc.
The co. began in 1914 with a deficit of
£9605, made up of goodwill, £8956, and pre-
liminary expenses, £649:
, —Dividends— ~
Pref. Ord. To Re-
Dec., Profit. 8 p.c. 8 p.c. serves. Deficit.
-- £9605
1914.. £3693 £794 £l6OO £1299 8306
1915.. 4571 1587 1600. 1384 6922
1916.. 5390 1600 1600 2190 4732
1917.. 7543 1600 1600 4343 389
Oct., All shares. P.eserves.
1918.. 6851 10 p.c. =£4583 2268 1879
The last line represents 10 months’ trading,
the management having decided to balance
yearly as at October 31, which is in the off
season and makes stock-taking easier. The
co. took over an eight-years-old business at
a favorable time, for when it had got settled
down in a new and well-equipped factory
the war brought in some nice contracts—for
several million tins of jam at a time So,
though the prices of sugar and tin-
plates soared, the co. out-paced its pros-
pectus anticipations. Subscribed capital in
1414, when the old business was taken over,
was £40,000—20,000 8 p.c. £1 prefs. issued
to the public, and 20,000 £1 ords. allotted to
the vendors. The war contracts put a heavy
strain on the co.’s finances, and the manage-
ment has had to depend on a lot of outside
money. Even though 15,000 new £1 ordin-
aries were issued (at par) to holders earlv
i^nn^ ear T^ aking „ the Paid-up capital
£05,000 —at October 31 liabilities amounted
to over £32,000. This shows the movements
of some of the other balance-sheet figures:—•
T . 1914- 1917. 1918.
Liabilities.. ..£14,883 £24,690 £32 455
Freeholds, etc. .. 17,394 18,521 18 521
Plant, etc. .. 8,491 10,450 9.342
Stock .. 12,655 18,334 30,695
Sundry debtors, etc. 10,363 19,888 31 836
Cash & investments 1,663 5 394
Since 1914 £15,317 of new capital has been
got in, and liabilities have grown by £17,572 ;
total, £32,889. Meantime £1978 has been
IJnt into property and plant (10 p.c. p.a. of
this latter item is written off to cover depre-
ciation) and £44,907 has been tacked on to
more or less liquid assets. That shows an
improvement of about £14,000 in the four
years, though possibly taxation will take a
bite of a couple of thousands. Even then,
while shareholders have received an average
dividend of 84 p.c. p.a., an amount equal to
a further 74 p.c. p.a. on the original capital
will have been left in the business each year.
The div. was limited by the Articles to 8
p.c. until reserves had been accumulated to
cover goodwill (£8950), when preferential
rights would cease and all shares rank alike.
As the table shows the whole of the capital
is now represented by tangible assets and
the dividend rate has been lifted a couple of
points. Whether the 10 p.c. can be main-
tained when the co. has to depend chiefly on
the local market remains to be seen, although
at present there is a wide margin between
profits and divs. “Oakleaf” products have
become widely known, but there is st’.’enuous
competition in the jam and preserving busi-
ness and many difficulties.
The Langridge Mutual Permanent
Building Society (Melbourne)
Added
. Written to Re- Re-
oept., I rofits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1906.. £4401 4 p.c. = £2966 £2,514 £24,099
1907.. 4724 44,, ~ 3323 1,424 24 076
1908.. 4838 5 „ ~ 3667 2.810 22,437
1909.. 5336 5 ~ ~ 3662 3,462 20,649
1910.. 5643 5„ ~ 3676 664 £1303 2L952
1911.. 6338 6 „ „ 3681 13,679 10,930
1912.. 6815 6 ~ ~ 4354 —, 2461 13,391
Sh ires forfeited . . 394 13,785
1913.. 7169 6 p.c. =s 4348 2821 16.606
1914.. 6940 6 ~ ~ 4262 2678 19,284
1915.. 6935 8 „ ~ 5637 1298 20,582
1916.. 6484 8 ~ ~ 5593 —. 891 21 473
1917.. 6783 8„ „ 5530 -- 1253 22,’726
1918.. 6598 8 „ ~ 5515 983 23,709
The Langridge is the only Melbourne
building society within The Bulletin’s
knowledge which came out of the big
smash of the ’nineties without having
to reconstruct or c l »ny depositors their
full 20s. in the £. at the due date.
Of course it did not escape trouble
altogether. In 1893 there were reserves of
£21,269, which were transferred to a con-
tingency account; and a lot of this old
stored-up profit disappeared as the manage-
ment d.pped to cover losses on realisations.
But though shareholders’ capital remained
intact they had a very dry time while the
broom was being used. For some years no
div. was paid at all; then a poor little
20 p.c. was handed out; and by 1915
the rate had gradually increased to
8 p.c. Meantime, the Society had been ex-
tending its operations again, and in the 10
years to 1914 had doubled its advances.
Since the war started the management has
been feeling its way cautiously
Deposits, Fore- Other
etc. Advances, closures. Assets.
1905. . £12,229 £59,172 £54,245 £3678
1910.. 21,351 96,143 24,997 Nil
1914.. 26,826 115,745 3,996 Nil
1915.. 21,402 103.022 3,962 9139
1916.. 20,229 110,235 3,929 1012
1917.. 18,987 108,332 3,929 1839
1918.. 15,545 99,829 3,970 7941
So in the four years deposits have been
reduced by £11,28.1 and advances by almost
£16,000. That has had this result: while
the management had to lean against au
overdraft in 1914, it . now has £5083
in War Loan and £2858 in cash.
Interest received from advances has
naturally fallen—from £9466 in 1914
to £8744 for the past year. Undoubtedly
the management did the right thing, for
until a month or so ago nobody knew
exactly what was going to happen—and
nobody knows now. So far as the Lang-
ridge is concerned it has got itself in a
comfortable position to meet any trouble.
With a paid-up capital of £68.940 and onlv
£14,060 in deposits, the creditors are weil
secured. And though profits have been cur-
tailed slightly shareholders have the satis-
faction of knowing that the Society is in
a nice position to reach out for business
when conditions become settled again.
The Westralian Trustee, Executor
and Agency Co. (Perthi
Di vidends and Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
Apl., 19H. .£!892 30 p.c.= £1575 £317 £13,338
Oct., 1911. . 1898 20 „ .. 1155 743 14 081
Ap1.,1912.. 1691 28 „„ 1628 63 14’144
Oct., 1912.. 1461 18* „„ 1155 306 14*450
Apl., 1913.. 1888 26s „ „ 1680 £219 14,439
Oct., 1913.. 1757 17J „ „ 1150 607 15,046
Apl., 1914.. 1587 251 „ „ 1650 14 983
Oct., 1914.. 881 10 „ „ 700 181 15*164
Apl., 1915.. 1267 10 „ „ 700 567 15,731
Oct., 1915.. 1573 10 „ „ 700 873 16,604
Apl., 1916.. 1698 24* „„ 1700 16 602
Oct., 1916.. 1102 10 „ „ 750 352 16,’954
Apl., 1917. . 1721 23* ~ ~ 1750 —. 16 925
Oct., 1917. . 2047 10 ~ „ 800 - 1247 18 172
y'nl., 1918. „ 2043 22* „ „ 1800 243 18 415
Oct., 1918.. 2098 10 ~ „ 850 77 1171 19’ £86
Twenty-six years old now. and Westralians
think so well of it that nearly 2{ millions
are at present in its care ; and almost half
ot the value now in hand represents the
progress of the past 10 years. The co. should
go on expanding, for so far it has hardly
more than scratched the big field in which
it is working. It offers many advantages
over even the best type of old-friend-of the-
family trustee: (1) it does not die or go
fishing; (2) the co.’s officers are specially
trained for their job; (3) its future de-
pends solely on whether it provides efficient
service; and (4) it puts up a guarantee
that it won't try to pick winners at the races
with the assistance of its trusts. This Wes-
tralian co. has £37,514 of assets to fill any
holes if somebody on the premises should
take the wrong turning, and, if it came to
the worst, there’s a further £33,000 callable.
Still the risk is not one that would keep
shareholders awake at nights. As the table
shows, they have done very well. Ten years
ago there were 20,000 50s. shares, each paid
to 10s. (£10,000). Since then another 75..
has been got in by paying bonuses and sim-
ultaneously making calls. The paid-up capi-
tal is now £17,000, while £10,580 of reserves:
have been accumulated. These funds are:
well placed: premises, £13,077, War Loan
and public securities, £14,350; mortgages,
£4974; cash and odds and ends, £5113.. The
co. did not owe a penny at October 31.
* * * *
Mount Motto an Gold Mining Co. (Q.) :
Revenue. Expenditure. Profit
Nov., 1910.. £484,755 £408,450 £70,305
May, 1911.. 468,538 350,867 117 671
Nov., 1911.. 452,336 381,730 70,606
May, 1912.. 537,378 349,985 187,393
Nov., 1912.. 040,712 387,585 253,127
May, 1913.. 499,317 351,314 148,003
Nov., 1913.. 496,936 351,973 144,963
May, 1914.. 459,606 328,217 131,389
Nov., 1914.. 502,382 438,546 63 836
May, 1915.. 503,018 400,215 102,803
Nov., 1915.. 647.038 478,395 168,643
May, 1910.. 017,754 499,616 118 138
Nov., 1916.. 643,990 502,475 141,515
May, 1917.. 657,387 489,697 107,690
AGV., 191 7.. 625,161 500,317 124,844
May, 1918.. 608,822 480,917 127,905
Nov., 1918.. 548,485 462,000 86,485
Of the revenue for the half-year to the end
of May, 1914, as shown in the accounts, the
profit was equal to 28.6 p.c.; for the past
half-year it was 15.8 p.c. And the decline is
all the more striking in view of the fact
that the price of copper has been double
what it was immediately before the war.
But we have no right to assume that the
normal pre-war price of the metal will
be the normal post-war price. Principally
owing to the enormous increase of paper
money, and because nations struggling for
their very life were prepared to. pay (in
borrowed money) almost any price for
their requirements, there has ' been a tre-
mendous increase in values. Mt. Morgan
itself shows what it regarded as the highest
safe price at which copper could be valued
prior to the war: it still estimates metal
on hand at the old figure of £55 per ton.
Even though the market had already
fallen heavily, the London quotation for
electrolytic a week ago was £ll7. The
week before the Great Crime was launched
it was £6l. No man knows how much
of that difference of £56 will be wiped
out during the next two or three years.
If paper money had its old backing of
gold it might be possible to make some
sort of a guess. But the world—and not
Australia only—-has a vast quantity of
paper which Governments have decreed
shall take the place of gold; and the in-
evitable result of that is an increase in
the market value of commodities. The
discovery of two or three full-fledged Rands
and Kalgoorlies would have just the same
effect. The sudden stoppage of war ex-
penditures will assuredly smash the prices
of many commodities—certain metals in-
cluded, perhaps—but there is not going
to be any general return to old price-levels
while the currency is inflated.
But in considering the comparisons made
above, one fact has to be kept in mind.
Six months ago there were 2681 tons of
copper in process of refining: of this 838
tons were valued in the accounts at £lOB
per ton and the balance (1843 tons) at
£55 per ton. In the present accounts,
although it was expected that 680 tons would
be available for sale under the old contract
(£.lOB at Sydney), all “the copper in process
of refining, etc., at the close of the period.
2230 tons, has been valued at £55 per- ton.”
This is, of course, to the disadvantage of
the present accounts, just as the plan
adopted in the previous accounts was to the
advantage of the profit- figures for that term.
But we can’t look forward to the present
carry-over being quitted at £lOB Syd-
the P as t half-year’s revenue about
£9/,000 came from the surplus from the
® ale °f the previous half-year’s production.
If the 2230 tons in hand average only £lOO,
then the co. will receive £100,350 more than
it has taken credit for in its accounts. So
the past half-year’s production not realised
SS. st -in Verage very nearl y £lOO per ton—sav
£.jS 10s. —to make the half-year’s actual
operations produce a profit equal to that
shown in the present accounts.
Because of the carry-over of copper and


Wolfram, Scheelite
and Molybdenite.
PRICES AT PRODUCING CENTRES:
MOLYBDENITE:
85 per cent, or over, 100/- for each
unit MOS 2.
• WOLFRAM AND SCHEELITE.
65 per cent, or over, 52/6 for each
unit WO3.
Enquiries Invited relative to
LOWER GRADES of the above
Minerals.
DALGETY $ CO. LTD.,
Commonwealth Government Agents.
THE MUTUAL LIFE
and CITIZENS’
ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
ISSUES A
WAR LOAN
POLICY
that meets your requirements exactly.
Particular attention is called to the comprehen-
siveness of the 1919 line of G.E. electric fans. The
features of construction, the operating efficiency,
the effectiveness of air delivery, the quietness ot
operation, and the attractive appearance combine
to make G.E. electric fans the choice of discriminat-
ing buyers. Come in and select your fan. we
stock all sizes. Australian General Electric Com-
pany, Wentworth Avenue, Sydney; and corner ot
Queen and Little Collins Melbourne.— Advt.
Make the water supply_ for your stock safe. Use
Aluminoferric in the proportion of lib. to 20UU
to 3000 gallons of the most turbid water. In about
3 hours all the sediment, mud or fine vegetable mat-
ter will be precipitated to the bottom, leaving the
water crystal clear and pure. Aluminoferric is
quite harmless, and has no deleterious effect on the
water whatever. William Adams & Co. Ltd., 1/5
Clarence Street, Sydney. Melbourne: 521-3 Collins
Street. Adelaide: 96 -Currie Street. Brisbane: Corner
Edward and Mary Streets. Perth: 33 King Street.
Modern methods of metal concentration require
fine and efficient grinding devices, and the tube null
is becoming more widely used every day. Present
conditions prohibit the importation of machinery
from abroad, so that we have to fall back on our
home manufactures. The Austral Otis Engineering
Co. of Melbourne manufacture tube mills of any size,
as well as grinding machines of every description.
They are also makers of the famous Hardinge Conical
Mills, which have made a name for themselves in
America. — Advt. [1
* * * *
Above or below ground Pioneer Wood Stave Pipe
is the most satisfactory conduit. No fluid can harm
it, neither can it taint any fluid. As a pressure pipe
it is unexcelled. We also manufacture bore casing.
Send for illustrated catalogue. The Australian Wood
Pipe Co., Ltd. (H. 0.), Burns Bay, Lane Cove, N.S.W.
P.O. Add.: Box 1576 G.P.0., Sydney. Factories:
Lane Cove, N.S.W. ; Footscray, Vic ; and Pt. Adelaide,
S.A. Contractors to all State Governments. — Advt.
Australian PATENTS from P. M. NEWTON, Patent
Attorney, Fink’s Bids., Melbourne, op. Patent Office.
—Advt.
♦ # * *
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address: 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney, and 383 Flinders Lane, Melbourne. — Advt.
* * * *
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.— Advt.
*** ' *
“Robey” Portable , Steam Engines.—Stocked in
Sydney: 8-nom.-h.p. single cylinder (max. b.h.p. 20
to 30), 14-nom.-h.p. double cylinder (max. b.h.p. 36
to 52), fitted with brakes, large fireboxes for burning
long lengths of wood, and all latest improvements.
Arthur Leplastrier and Co., head office, Sydney.
Queensland enquiries: The Australian Machinery Co.
Ltd., Mary Street, Brisbane. — Advt.
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * # *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. 11. B. Selby & Co.,
Ltd., 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street, Melb.— Advt.
* * * *
The Sydney Export Co. has a specially-designed
plant for the treatment of complex ores. Separation
of wolfram, tin, copper, molybdenite and bismuth a
specialty. Highest price given, prompt cash settle-
ments.— Advt.
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Loss ol Profits
Insure in
1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital ..£250,000
Subscribed Capital 194,235
Paid-up Capital .. 96,291
Income (Cross) 1917 .. 249,000
Established 1910.
AGENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
When making a Will or Settlement
appoint The
Union Trustee
Company of Australia Ltd.
Your EXECUTOR or TRUSTEE.
The only Trustee Company with branches
in more than one State.
NEW SOUTH WALES. VICTORIA.
QUEENSLAND.
Sydney Office, 48 Young Street.
Directors: Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar,
K.C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman) ; Hon. James
Ashton, M.L.C. ; Hon. 11. Y. Braddon,
M.L.C.; F. B. S. Falkiner, M.11.R., James
Kidd; W. H. Macicay, R. M. Pitt, and
Duncan Sinclair.
V. G. Watson, J. Mair,
Assistant Manager. Manager.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Pig Iron, Billets, Blooms, Steel Rails,
Structural Steel, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON—3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street.
SYDNEY—2S O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
other factors it is not possible to say exactly
what costs amount to. The co. would make
a profit, as shown above, of £86,000-odd if
(1) it had got nothing from surpluses on
sales of previous production; (2) if it
averages £9B 10s. for the unrealised product
of the past half. Take the average all round
at £lO4, and set all the value of the gold
against working exes., then the profit was
£24 per ton, making the cost of producing
copper £BO per ton. That includes a very
moderate amount for depreciation.
Of the 186,032 tons mined during the half-
year 67,311 tons were extracted from outside
the boundaries of the ore reckoned as re-
serves ; and the reserves are estimated now
at 3,706,964 tons; but they average 0.08 p.c.
copper and o.4sdwt. gold less than the aver-
age value of the ore taken from the reserves
during the six months. At the rate they
have been drawn on lately the reserves would
last about 16 years. Reserves are, how-
ever, governed by the price of the metal.
A bad slump in the copper market would
remove hundreds of thousands of tons from
the profit-making reserves. In addition to the
ore the co. had on November 30 more or less
liquid assets £507,233 in excess of liabilities.
There are a million shares in the co.
* * * *
The publication of the stocks of lead,
copper, zinc and tin in the hands ot the
Allied powers partly accounts for the slump
in metal prices. Also the disorder from
the Rhine to Petrograd and the Dardanelles
occasions the uneasy feeling that there won t
be the anticipated early call for metals. Aus-
tralia’s most vital interest in the slump is
that working costs, freights and mine sup-
plies eat up so much of the revenue that
there is hardly a mine that can make a
penny of profit with copper at £BO. It looks
in any case as though the cos. will have to
stock up their product for six months, as J.
Bull intends to load only food and clothing
stuffs on any of the ships released for the
Australian trade. Mt. Morgan promises to
pull along until funds or credit give out,
while Hampden, Mt. Elliott and Mt. Cuth-
bert don’t intend to smelt until they can
get lower labor costs.
* * * *
Trunkey, the old N. S. Wales field which
turned out something like six tons of gold,
provides a striking example of the weakness
of a mining law which does not insist on
mine-owners sending regular reports and
plans of work done for filing in the Mines
Dept. - A Bulletin man had a look at
Trunkey Ridge the other day. On every
hand is evidence of the usual waste
which accompanies a boom. Afterwards
tributors got out all the rich stuff they
could lay hands on down to the water level
and then packed up and left. There is
a local s£ory that values were maintained
right to the water. But the Mines Dept,
can tell you nothing of any value. There
are people who still have faith in the old
field, and now and then they back their
faith with their labor and cash. Even now
a little syndicate is making a start at
pushing ahead a tunnel abandoned in the
long ago. A complete official record of
work previously done would be of great
value to anybody who might be tempted
to have a go at some of the old shows.
* * * *
“Certainly the gold values are going down,
and whilst the multiplicity of reefs entarls
considerable prospecting work it at the same
time increases the prospects of obtaining
bonanzas.” That is the last word L. F.
Harper, of the Mines Department, lias to
sav after his recent exhaustive examination
of the old Hill End field (N.S.W.). So
Hawkins Hill Deep Bevels, Hawkins
Hill Central and the Marshall’s Mines cos.
are preparing to join forces for the systematic
and co-ordinated development of the field.
Getting down to definite recommendations,
Harper advises development work to inter-
sect as many veins as possible in the neigh-
borhood of the frequent cross-courses or
faults. He says there are indications that
the new bedded veins are developing at a
depth, and that these should pay investiga-
tion by winzing and cross-cutting below the
Amalgamated tunnel level. The gold occurs
in distinct chutes, the richest proved up to
the present having a height of about 80ft.
over a length of 2000 ft., pitching to the
north, and carroting out underfoot. As fol-
lowed down, the chute had a tendency to
pass to the west into adjoining veins. He
regards the prospects of obtaining further
good makes of payable ore as favorable.
However, the future of the field, he points
out, is more dependent -on rich patches than
on the output of a big tonnage of milling
ore.
» * * *
Even the oldest inhabitant cannot recall
such a dry time as the country around Trun-
key (N.S.W.) is experiencing. Mt. Dudley
still has a little water in its dam, but man-
ager Martin is anxiously awaiting re-inforce-
ments from the big catchment area which
feeds his water-supply. At present he is do-
ing a lot of timbering, while the work of
sinking the main shaft a further 60ft. and
opening up north at 145 ft. has already been
commenced. A
Prospecting work at Archie McKellar s
two finds, the Mastodon and the
four miles north-west of Mt. Dudley, is also
being made difficult owing to the drought, ahe
Mastodon shows a boldly-defined outcrop from
2ft. to Bft. wide, running in kindly country
for half a mile. Samples right along the
line give between one and two ounces to
the ton, and even better. Whether these val-
ues go down is still unknown, as, apart from
a little costeening, practically no work has
been done. However, the Federal Treasurer
has granted permission for the formation ot
a syndicate of 15 shares of £lOO each £lOO
and four shares going to the vendor, leaving
£lOOO to test the property.
Mount Booralong*, near Armidale (N.S.W.),
which shows a lot of low-grade molybdenite
in an open cut, is getting its plant together
and hopes to start concentrating at an early
date. Chairman Rankin is optimistic con-
cerning market prices for the metal, and
since there are 150,000 shares which have to
be fed from low-grade stuff practically every-
thing will depend on the market.
Last year Westralia produced 876,5700 z.
fine gold, or about 100,000 oz. less than in
1917,' and over 1,100,0000 z. short of the out-
put for 1004, the State’s record year. Decern-
bor’s figures were the lowest of any month
in 1918, yet in the Governor’s speech read
at the opening of the last session of Parlia-
ment the industry was declared to be fit and
well. It could scarcely be more out of sorts.
.*.***
The Westralian tin producer is in a bad
way. He has practically no chance now
that the Inter-Allied executive has gone out
of the business and the TJ.S.A. Government
refuses to grant any more export licenses.
Shipping space to England was promised by
the Federal authorities, but there has been
none available, so the producer has been
asked to bear up and be content with advances
for the time being. He refuses to be con-
soled in this way. To make matters worse,
his operations at Greenbushes, where nearly
all the tin is at present won, have been
hampered lately by a forestry regulation
which prohibits the cutting of green timber,
exceot some which no man can split.
* * * *
As Edna May (W.A.) now has only a
little more than 20.000 tons of ore in sight,
and little prospect of adding much to this
reserve, it seems probable that the co.’s re-
duction plant will shut down for want of
supplies some time this year. The Edna
May has been a good mine to the. State,
as, apart from the £300,000 cut up in divi-
dends on a paid-up capital of £25,000, its
advent caused a badly needed revival.
Vigorous prospecting in new ground is
promised by the Board, and while that
portion of the Edna May lode in this co.’s
ground is almost worked out,, the co. has
not yet exhausted its possibilities. There is
an area of gneissic rock still unexplored.
For some time before the war started Boulder
Perseverance (W.A.), which was apparently
eouipped with an efficient plant, was more
tlian covering exes, by treating low-grade
stone. But owing to dearer mining supplies
and labor troubles expenditure rapidly out-
distanced receipts, and ultimately the co.
went into liquidation. Tributors then took
a hand and began to break stone, which has
since crushed as high as 4oz. per ton. Some
tributors are said to have simply shovelled
up ore lying on the surface and milled it at
a good profit, while others did so well that
they installed an electric hoist in order to
raise more ore. Briefly, the position is that
this mine, which was alleged to be too low-
grade for a co. to work under war conditions,
is proving highly profitable to a few working
parties, and, obviously, as things are at pre-
sent, the show is not being worked to the
best advantage from the point of view of the
State.
* * * *
South Ivalgurli (W.A.) is reckoned to
have improved a dwt. or so during the year,
and the manager opines that it can be kept
up to this mark for some time. The im-
provement is attributed to developments on
the No. 3 east lode from the 10th to the 15th
level, which are stated to have been con-
sistently satisfactory. The mine bucked
up just in time, as operations for the last
financial year showed a loss of nearly £lOOO
compared with a surplus of £4OOO for the
previous 12 months.
Speaking at the South Kalgurli meeting in
London a couple of months ago, chairman
Marker reported a considerable change for
the better in the mine since the manager’s
annual report had been written. In fact,
without being too optimistic, he thought
the co.’s prospects had improved to such an
extent that the Board would be able to de-
clare another div. at the end of the current
financial year. The cash assets stood at
over £32,000, plus about £.11,000 stores in
hand.
* # * *
Mick Williams, manager of the Edna May
(W.A.), recently had a look at the Turn of
fide, at Kumanalling, on behalf of some
>urne people. Williams found a shaft
200 ft., and. a short high-grade lens ot
itli poor ends. He says there is practi-
cally nothing in sight, and reckons that
values will decrease in depth. Nevertheless
he thinks that other makes of stone will be
met with, and advises development. To date
300 tons have been treated by the vendors
for £2307, and they assert that the show is
dirt cheap at the option price of £2OOO. But
vendors always say things like that.
* * * *
The belated tidings have just reached
local shareholders that in 1917 the North
Kalgurli (W.A.) showed a loss on working
account of £582. When the books closed
the co. owed £23, and had £12,859 in liquid
assets. For some time past the Board has
been looking for additional capital to further
prospect and develop the co.’s Kalgoorlie
holding, or, alternatively, it is prepared to
effect a sale. A cash offer for the show was
made a few months ago, -but just when share-
holders were about to be consulted on the mat-
ter word was received from sometody on the
spot advising caution, as a good strike had
been made in adjoining ground. _ This intel-
ligence caused the directors to prick up their
ears. They are still awaiting developments.
* * * *
When Richard Hamilton turned down
Sloan and Scotchman’s, Stawell (Vic.), the
locals didn’t lose heart. They had 30hd. of
stamps, two or three shafts from which to
poke abour, and formations big enough for
Broken Hill to prod into. The old shoot,
from which divs. came 30 years back, was
put out of court, even as a low-grade coun-
ter, by Hamilton’s drills. Another 2dwt.
would have made all the difference, but the
gold wasn’t there. The best bores got were
in the old Extended ground, south. Poking
about in the neighborhood of one of these
over the 1200 ft. level has revealed a fresh
make of stone. At the start it gave sdwt.
dirt within walls 4ft. apart; but now r , after
40ft. of driving, the shoot has widened to
20ft. worth quite lOdwt. On the strength
of this most of the loose shares were picked
up before Christmas, and with them pocketed
the market is nicely under control if jobbers
are out for prey. The co. owes £lO,OOO to
the bank in addition to £BOOO to the fatmen
v/ho stood by the mine in bad times. So a lot
more dirt will have to be proved to get
finances in trim and to do the work needed
to ascertain whether the shoot goes under-
foot and overhead. The latter should be an
easy job, as levels are open at 1000 ft. and
1300 ft. Nevertheless, manager Couchman
will need to sprint hard to get the market to
believe that Hamilton’s drills dodged a big
shoot in this part of the mine.
* # * *
Vic. Mines Dept, lent £16,000 to 212 co-
operative parties in three years to mine for
gold. Exactly one-half got nothing; the
other won £35,000 worth of gold. Of the
100 lucky parties 10 paid back £615; the
others paid nothing. Forty-four mining cos.
were advanced £44,386, and 25 of them were
successful in winning £143,480 worth of
gold. Twenty-four cos. paid back £10,320;
the balance of £133,000-odd was annexed.
These results don’t encourage State or Com-
monwealth to help gold-mining.
* * * *
The pegging out of more ground at Lang-
ford’s old Central Briseis (Tas.) doesn’t
mean that the claim is any better, but it
will satisfy some to have it settled whether
the old Morning Star runs of wash have all
been worked out. Surveyor Fraser, is the
mainstay, and he argues that, with the
watjr power he will make available from his
new dam site, he will show that the disaster
to the old co. would have been averted if
a good water power had been available.
It is never too late to mend, and as Fraser’s
survey work at the Briseis in the early
days was of the best, he ought to know if
he can bring in the water necessary.
* * * *
Mt. Cuthbert, Cloncurry (Q.), is obtain-
ing temporary financial assistance in order
to continue development. A circular to
shareholders states that further capital is
required, and meetings will be held in Mel-
bourne on February 13 and 14, when
authority will be sought to increase the capi-
tal from 20s. to 30s. per share. There are
at present 279,596 shares issued, with 20,404
in reserve. It is expected that calls amount-
ing to 3s. per share (£41,929) will place
Cuthbert in a position to resume smelting.
As the co.’s future is dependent on the devel-
opment of the Kalkadoon and Orphan, if
shareholders want to go on they have no
choice but to put up the money.
* * *
Herberton (N.Q.) is the most important
lode tin-field in the Commonwealth, and
its multitude of small claims will be heavily
hit by the slump. During November no less
than seven little batteries were at work.
Altogether 2026 tons were crushed for 74
tons of mill tin worth £12,112. Some small
parcels were very rich, averaging from £2O
to £3O per ton. The old Gt. Northern
crushed 101 tons for 17 tons concentrates
worth £2562. Contrast with which the
one-time triumphant Vulcan, which sent 119
tons to the mill for £360.
* * * *
A start has been made with the job of
turning the Tipper Ouse into the Great Lake,
in order to increase the water supply for the
Tasmanian hydro-electric scheme. This will
mean making a channel four or five miles,
but it is reckoned that the extra water will
guarantee another 25,000 or 30,000 h.p. at the
Waddamana station, perhaps more.
Years ago someone tried to develop a
deposit of red ochre at the Carlton River
(Tas.) and to work up a business in mak-
ing paint. As there was plenty of imported
stuff going cheap no one would bother, and
the deposit has been idle except when a
few local sheep-farmers dug up bits to mark
their sheep. Now that branding-oil, for in-
stance, has soared to 10s. or 11s. a gallon, in-,
terest in the thing has revived and another
attempt may be made to get business going.


MERELY A SUGGESTION.


Martin s Pills are sold by all chemists and
stores. Ladies recommend them. Be sure
you get the genuine with the signature:
Martin, Chemist, Southampton. —Advt.
jffie Ideal Beer for the Home
[ABBOTS
LAGER"
Brewed from Pure Malt and Hops.
TAKE NO OTHER.
THE DEAF HEAR!
The Joy and Happiness
of perfect hearing are
only appreciated by
those who have lost it.
The
Mears Earphone
makes it yours. The
Latest Model 96-Tone
Mears Earphone
In the hollow of the
hand or attached to
ear with light head
band.
with its great range of
tone and power, can be regulated by a touch
of the finger to suit the hearing for every
occasion, and for all stages of deafness.
The MEARS EARPHONE catches and inten-
sifies even the least whisper, and enables the
deaf to hear lectures, sermons and plays clear-
ly and distinctly. Small, compact, and incon-
spicuous. The MEARS EARPHONE is
recommended by leading Aurists, and many
prominent Australian citizens have had the
Mears Earphone in daily use for Seven
Years, with continued satisfaction.
A Lengthy Guarantee with each Instrument
FREE TRIAL !
Call and test it, or write for booklet post free.
The Mears Earphone Co., Bernard’s Bldgs.,
Tel. 3916 City. 387 George Street, Sydney.
Sydney's Premier
Private Hotel*
“Ritz”
Cremorne,
On the Harbor Front.
Delightful 8 minutes’ Ferry Trip
from Circular Quay.
Electric Light and Lifts and all
conveniences usually associated with
First-class Hotels.
Steamers every few minutes all day
and night.
Tariff, from 10/6 per day, and
from £3/3/- per week.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
S. D. Porteus, formerly a Vic. State-
school teacher, and latterly head of the
School for Feeble-minded Children at Bell-
street, Fitzroy, under the Education Depart-
ment, is beginning to receive international
recognition. For the last two years he hast
been associated with Professor It. J. A.
Berry, of Melb. University, in research work
in regard to brain development. Now lie
has left Sydney for America, where he will
carry on for a year at the Vineland Re-
search Laboratories.
THE GALL FOR COURAGE
MRS. SUORTOASH: “See here, Fred — you've
got the M.G. and the D.S.O. What
about your seeing the gasman -when he
calls with his account on Monday?”
There isn’t a man who, to all appearances,
knows less what fear is than Wilkins, the
ollicial photographer who is making records
for the Commonwealth Government. Wher-
ever the Aussies cared to go this particular
camera-fiend went with them, and was up
and over in a long succession of escapades, a
hundred times blandly operating his machine
with bullets plugging the atmosphere all
about him. Yet he was only once perfoi’ated,
and that time not seriously.
SpeaKer J. J. Cohen, Nationalist M.L.A.
for Petersham (N.S.W.), and soon-to be
Judge, was in Mackay and Brisbane in the
early ’nineties with a shingle out engraved
“Architect and Engineer.” iUissing the ’bus
rather signally at this he came back Syd-
ney and qualified as a barrister. Not ex-
actly catching the vehicle at law either, he
leavened law with politics. One thing at
least lie was master of, and that was verbal
mincemeat. When he got excited and splut-
tersome thonmembr who was stripiingstig-
nityparlmt and the jargent who was to re-
move the onrble(blob) got so mixed up and
overlapped that a chaff-cutter could hardly
separate them.
Home-grown Dr. J.C.Verco, after practising
in Adelaide for. between 40 and 50 years, has
decided to retire this month. The solid but
sprightly old man’s opinion has been looked
upon as the last word wjfli the S. An?. medi-
cal profession, and his retirement will be a
big loss to the State. He will now be able
to give more attention to his beloved shells,
of which he has one of the largest collec-
tions anywhere.
There is only one thing to be said in favor
of appointing Cohen, M.L.A., to the N. S.
Wales Bench —that similar scandals are
fairly common in the country from which
we get our legal traditions. Ridley and
Darling, for example, were political appoint-
merits. Neither had had much more
technical experience than Cohen.
The Bar was scandalised over both
these cases, and said so vehemently.
Ridley proved as bad a Judge as his
bitterest critic expected. Darling,
on the other hand, is one of the
soundest men on the Bench. His
one weakness is his habit of mak-
ing jokes-—and even they sound
100 per cent, better than they read.
Ansell Robin, who through indif-
ferent health lately gave up head-
mastering at the Ballarat C. of E.
Grammar School, has been suc-
ceeded there by Ernest Villiers-
Butler, nephew of that kindly
Anglican prelate, Arthur Green.
Bishop Green saw to the establish-
ment of the school during his hard-
working years in charge of the Bal-
larat diocese, and latterly the
establishment has had a good push
ahead, owing to the increasing fat-
ness of the Western District. Vil-
liers-Butler, some years ago, was
favorably known as boss of the C.
of E. Grammar School at Camper-
down, the region of the mammoth
cow and the “elephant” sheep.
“Bertie” Lloyd, D. 5.0., the sth
Artillery Division’s new General, is
one of the successes of the war. He
was a subaltern in 1914, a staff-
captain after the Evacuation, and
in France he got the Fifth Brigade.
Wherever Lloyd went brass but-
tons and white lanyards blazed.
And yet he was liked. Talking once
to a Battery on the subject of his
abhorrence—the dirty, ill-dressed,
Gprblimey type of soldier—he said
with dramatic gloom: “He is not
ornamental and lie is not useful;
he is discreditable and he is un-
trustworthy; and you will find if
you watch him that he rarely dies unless by
disease or accident.” A great phrase-maker
is Lloyd, with a vast repertory of stories,
drawing-room and otherwise.
When Paderewski, now almost President
of Poland, was in Australia, Bill Dvson was
a caricaturist still in the bud, but
most daring in _ pursuit of victims. He
wanted the hairy _ piano-smasher, went
for him with premeditated audacity, and at
length was permitted to sketch while Pad.
practised. Dyson worked up nearer and
nearer, and at length the pianist’s eye fell
upon the drawing. He sprang aloft in a
sort of ecstasy. “How!” he cried. “You
haft know ze mother of me—what! Ach,
yes! Bet iss ze poor mother.” He kissed the
drawing. “Ze poor, poor lee-dle mother!”
He kissed the picture twice. “Her.-!” he
cried, wheeling on the artist. “I giff you
von pounds for eet —two pounds for eet —
tree!” Dyson closed promptly.
“Groper” : Gone over the hill in Westralia
Frank McMillan, one of the best drivers that
Australia has romanced about. But there’s no
romance about this. As the outcome‘of a
wrangle in Coolgardie £5O was put up to
bet that Mac could pilot two dozen horses
and a coach up Bailey-street, turn them, and
navigate the outfit back to the starting
point. He did it easily.
Old man Coldham, father of the Coranga-
mite (Vic.) Parliamentary candidate, left
a unique mark on the surface of Victoria.
In the early days he owned Grassdale estate
in the Wannon district, and instead of
fences erected huge earthen walls 6ft.
high. Though battered and worn, many
still remain, and as rabbit flats are dinkum.
Why Coldham went to this expense when
everyone else ran up log fences is a mystery.
“Good breaks for fires started by a blazing
vocabulary,” some neighbors suggest.
The Australian Captain Ross Smith, who
piloted the Handley Page ’bus from Egypt
to India, received a compliment from the
admiring Hun flying men in Palestine, One
morning a Boche machine hovered over the
A.F.G. camp and dropped a parcel addressed
to Captain Smith. It contained a box of
excellent cigarettes. By the way, the day
following the big battle at GaZa on April 19,
1917, a Hun flier hovered over the Camel
Corps Headquarters and dropped a list of
the Cameliers they had killed and taken
prisoners. Another ’plane followed later
with a bundle of letters from the Captured
men to their relatives.
Gritty W'estraila has now 10 winners of
the V.C., the latest being James Parkes
Woods—-although South Aus. may Claim
him, as he originally Came from Gawier. He
gave a remarkable exhibition of valor in
France. Although there isn’t much of him
(he is so short that with neck craned he
could only just reach the minimum height
requirement of the A.1.F.), he and a mate,
who had become isolated, took a dangerous
Hun possie, which otherwise would have
taken them, and captured seven machines
guns. Then the amazing bantam held the
fort while his mate went back and brought
up reinforcements.
THE FRENCH LABOR MISSION.
PAUL THOMSEN, ADOLPHE HODEE
(with the hair), and J. T. MEADOWS
SMITH ( interpreter — he's in the
middle).
There is some tall timber in the new Aus-
tralian Army Reserve. Gunner Arthur .Tames
Routen, formerly of the Bth Field Artillery,
of Drouin (Vic.), who joined up recently,
is 6ft. Sin. from heel to scalp. And there is
one'Australian who can look down on him—
a Bananaland giant of 6ft. lOin.
A man who was a London policeman at
the Duke of Wellington’s funeral died in
N. S. Wales this month. Coming to Aus-
tralia he had a leg in the pursuit of many of
the gold-rush bushrangers, and when he re-
tired some time last century he was Super-
intendent Saunderson, of the Bathurst dis-
trict.
Captain Andrew Lang, recently reported
by cable as having flown to a record height,
is a native of Corowa (N.S.W.), a son'of
Dr. Lang of Melbourne, and nephew of
Andrew, the novelist. “Dandy” Lang came
here a couple of years ago as instructor in
the Aviation School that Holman started at
Richmond. Not liking the type of machine
it was proposed to use and other features
of this State enterprise, he went Lack to
the R.F.C. Dr. Lang is well known
as a horse authority and sporting
writer, and after hanging out the medical
shingle m Corowa for a generation or more,
finally followed his bent and took on the
job of iiandicapper with the V.R.C.
The Bulletin’s old cherub £ £ Bevan,
for many years reckoned the best-paid
preacher in Melbourne, managed, in spite
of recent bad times, to have £16,200 to men-
tion in his will.
Melba gives Paderewski an unsolicited
testimonial to help him id his deW lob of
President of the Polish republic, declaring
he is just the boy for the billet. Bat mete
men never looked oit ’Effski with the same
benignant eye as
woman; Paderew-
ski came td Austra-
lia front
where in New Yokk
his hair had heed
quoted hi 40 dollars
a lock; and he
wore throughput his
stay the apprehed-
Sive look of a didn
expecting at any
moment t 0 be at-
tacked and cropped
with violence. At
the hotel he stayed
at in Melbourne he
insisted on his door
being barred as
well as locked, and
he refused to sleep
in a room with a
chimney to it.
“Hell’s fires!” he
said. “Doand I-
know vo t dees
vomen iss?” And
all the time his
famous head of
hair was insured.
Perhaps it is his
head now.
MAJOR ARTHUR
MORRISBY, of
Tasmania, soldier
and politician.
“Mustard Gold” puts an old mate to bed :
Jack Hoolan’s death recalls the rough, pioneering
times of the Labor Party in Bananaland. Hoolan,
the party’s lieutenant, always truculent, voluble
with much real eloquence, and fearless, commanded
more deference from the Ministerial phalanx than
any of his colleagues. He was a man of deep
emotion, and I have seen him in tears in the
midst of a speech—he was appealing for some
underdog and had noted the stony indifference
of a Government sure of the vast herds of sheep
and cattle behind it. Hoolan’s return to Croydon
in recess was the occasion of wild congratulation
for political services rendered to his miner con-
stituents. A man of medium height, much be-
whiskered, with a witty tongue and a genial laugh
—that was John Plumper Hoolar. In the Mundic
Miner (Iloolan’s own) his bizarre personal column —
“Old Bill Smith has just returned from the
metropolis after a month’s heavy shicker,” and
similarly flattering testimonials—together with the
editorial diatribes launched at the reptile con-
temporary, the Etheridge Mining Journal, stand
for ever in proof of his journalistic virility.
Usually his home was at Little River, normally
a small, tortuous stream down which flood-waters
sometimes rushed in torrential deluge, and fre-
quently lapped the doorway of the little pub his
sister kept on the bank.
East Greta (N.S.W.) coal-miners felt
good when the cable mentioned that Lieut.
Joseph Maxwell had added the V.C. to his
M.C. and D.C.M. Maxwell was an East
Greta coaiie before he enlisted, and “hard
places” didn’t worry him on the other job.
He got the D.C.M. in November, 1917, and
the M.C. in March, 1918. The Y.C. was
earned at Estrees, on October 3, for the
usual daredevil stunt in which a nest of
Hun guns was the party of the other part.
Follen Bishop, the English water-color
artist who came to Adelaide shortly before
the war and has stayed there ever since, is
about to return home. His landscapes of
local scenery have found a sale at good
prices, but critics object that his atmosphere
is rather that of rural England than the
hard clear air of South Australia. His
wife, who exhibits as Florence Fitzgerald,
is also an accomplished painter.
Cabled that Frank Anstey, the M.H.R.
whose tongue Billy Hughes fears most, is
to attend the International Labor Con-
ference which is to meet in Lausanne
while the Peace Conference is meeting in
Paris. Anstey’s last visit to France was
made with the Australian press delegates:
He represented the Labor papers. The
other apostles picked him up in London,
whither he had travelled before the mast,
going through the Panama Canal and
spending some valuable weeks in U.S.A.
There wasn’t a better-liked member of the
press party. He would rarely talk in
Public; but just about the cleverest speech
heard during the tour was one he made in
Ireland. A dozen times in the course of
his whirlwind oratory he malevolently led
’em on to expect an outbreak of Bol-
shevism ; and just as often, when he had
taken them up to the brink, he swung off
into an impish jest.
A WAYSIDE ROMANCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I see her pass when o’er the hill
The red sun lifts an eye,
And from the fence the magpies fill
The world with song, and sigh:
“Alas! that this brown queen must go
In tattered print, her true,
Rich auburn wealth unkempt, and no
Sweet gems at her white throat, a toe
Protruding from her shoe.’’
She drives a waggon full of cans
To Weir and back again,
And, watching her, a thousand plans
Are drifting in my brain.
To take her from the dairy herd,
The dreary realm of cow,
To have her gowned in silk, and furred,
And with the plumes of some rare bird
To deck her marble brow.
She’s beautiful, her smile is sweet,
Her body’s girlish grace
Cries out for loveliness. I’d seat
Her in some splendid place;
With languid pearls I’d lace her breast
And her rich tresses dew,
And have her taught all that is best
In art and truth, so to invest
Her soul with glory too.
I’d have her shine where gentle dames
In gilded halls are met,
And lead in what the city names
Its most exclusive set.
But she is proud, and makes it clear
I may not intervene.
In fact I’m knapping metal here,
I’m old, and bald, and fond of beer,
And haven’t got a bean!
VICTORIA
BII.LY T.


"■PHE young man and growing youth is
1 wonderfully well cared for in a special
department at our Headquarters Store.
Take the Elevator to Ist floor and ask for
The Young Men’s Section
US
BH
‘.r:
m
mm
mat
IBife'
m
S'. -
>J7>Ti.
m
USrSj
I
1 §33
.
mm
■■■ :
a i
IS
gSfl
as
;< •/’ :
m
*3
•••
S*
m
fr?i<S
I
? A.
V
as.
I
a
;Ak
.
m
m
■, l®
v..,;
its
n
Wf// ti*2
rc^l
s
. 7**:
«
s*w
V
'}-r
ma
-'V-r -
«WiP
? •'
I
(Sg
liiywwww
'*>£+**•
3PS
YOUR appreciation of “Aus-
tral” apparel Ready-to-Wear
is in direct proportion to your
sense of clothing values. If you
look first of all for quality, you
will find quality of fabric and
workmanship is given first con-
sideration in the out-turn of all
“Austral” clothes. Your expec-
tation of styles that will reflect
credit on your appearance is met
with an unparalleled range of
smart Sac Suit models which
offer for inspection at either of
our two stores.
And, moreover, you may Insist, as you
have the right, on a fitting that will fully
satisfy your most exacting demands.
In final proof there is the question as to
price, for what you pay demonstrates
beyond all doubt the strength of value.
Make this the over-ruling test —ask us
to show the proof. We’ll be glad indeed
to show you any day.
“Austral” Sac Suits
Ready-to-Wear.
Special value offers in our showing of “Austral” Sac Suits
Ready-to-Wear at Three Guineas. The fabrics are Australian
tweeds of light and medium weights in medium and dark grey
shades.
Choice of style may be a three-button Sac Coat with medium
length of lapel and plain back, or a two-button Sac Coat having
longer lapels and seam and vent back, In either case the vest
is smartly cut with fashionable long points and opening to corres-
pond with coat. The trousers may have permanently
upturned bottoms or be quite plain, as desired. All
regular and between fittings are available. Price,
65
Other prices are, 75/-* 84/-* 95/-* 105/-, 126/-, 135/
Country Customers will find much of interest to them iti “The Men’s Wear
Book,” a copy of lohich we gladly send to any address, post free on request.
CARRIAGE IS PAID ON ALL COUNTRY ORDERS.
484 to 490 George Street,
3 to 17 Royal Arcade.
New Branch Store at
304=306 George Street (nr. Hunter Street),
SYDNEY.


K
■
i i'
A Former Chamber Magistrate, Clerk of Petty Sessions and Deputy Clerk of
the Peace speaks highly of Clements Tonic to those subjected to nerve strain.
Here is a copy of Staff-Sergeant Mac Nevin’s letter, written from his home:
82 Surry Street, Darlinghurst,
N. S. Wales, 23/5/’lB.
PTjFMFNTS TONTC TiTD
I was so much a martyr to ill-health and bad nerves that I used to “jump out tell leaSt sllock or
noise. This condition continued until I used your Clements Tonic, and now I have a different
Where I could not eat or sleep, I now enjoy my sleep and meals.
When I was C.P.S. and Chamber Magistrate, Registrar of District Court, and Deputy Clerk of the Peace,
- - - ■- ■*l IL. ll'llOf, Thlrt to act as Deputy Clerk of the Peace.
UI Hie leaumg U 1 in vanuus cuuuwj ium. - -r tu QC rj pn ~tv
and physical energy during the exhaustive trials at the Criminal Sessions when I had to ac *L a 1 y
After leaving the service in 1893, and following commercial pursuits^ °° rvice g taff
ill J uoi wiiu lv/iiu »» w***i»iv* I. i 'Vf C 1
a fine standard medicine. lam now in my 53rd year and am Sergeant in the
I Dermit you to use this letter as a token of my thanks for the great benefit
received from it, and my recommendation of it to others. (Signed)
If you have any regard for your health keep this medicine beside you in winter or
summer. It is invaluable in cases of Brain-fag, Insomnia, Debility, Poor Appetite, Weak
Nerves and Facial Neuralgia. Get it and try it, as thousands of others have done.
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle, N.S.W. All Chemists and Stores Sell it
£4r[JA 4
Staff-Sergeant.
SOCIETY
PENEOLD'S
WINES
“J.1.M.”: When John Monash was to
be knighted on the field, a guard of honor
was formed which included only the
smartest-looking Diggers of the near-by
divisions. Staff-officers perspired in their
efforts to arrange the parade, and when
they had done fussing Billjim was supposed
to be keyed up to a pitch of reverential
hysteria. Suddenly a motor tooted, parade
“shunned,” Royal Salute was sounded, and,
followed by a flock of red tabs, George V.
hurried on to the field. All eyes were
glued on the principals while H.M. drew
a sword or riding crop (I forget which)
and touching the kneeling general said:
“Arise, Sir John,” or words to that effect.
Just then I heard a titter behind me and
turned round in time to see one Digger in
the rear rank kneeling whilst his cobber
hit him on the s ; de of the head with his
bayonet, saying “Get up, you
THE RETORT COURTEOUS.
“The Bolshevik idea is to kill all users of the
toothbrush.” — Paderewski.
THE BOLSHEVIK: “Yah. Get yer 'air cut!
You-a the friend of the workin’ man
with ten-bob's worth of 'air cuts over-
due!"
“F. Dressing” : “To damage to W.A A.C.’s
underclothing, £1 10s.” This rare official
entry (a fine) appears in a Digger’s pay-
book. Imagine what the wife would say if
she found it! But it is not as incriminating
as it looks. Several Aussies at an artillery
school in England, seeing the military rai-
ment of some W.A.A.C.’s laid out for inspec-
tion, decided to repair unto their pals dis-
guised. That’s how it happened.
Careful estimates set down the cost of the
permanent way for air traffic between
London and Sydney at £4O per mile, or £9O
per mile including sufficient flying stock
for a preliminary express service. That is
as compared with the £17,000 per mile
which, so far, has been the average railway
cost in Australia. The sky mail between
New York and Chicago has been run in its
early stages at a cost of
2s. 4d. per mile tra-
velled by each vessel. If
a craft carrying 50 pas-
sengers could be run at
even four times that
rate it would represent
about 2*d. per mile per
passenger, which would
make the fare hetween
Sydney and Adelaide
£0 7s. 6d., the circum-
bendibus by Melbourne
being cut out. The
heavy freight problem,
of course, won’t be set-
tled till rates are
cheaper than that, but
it will probably be
settled by the new bird
as quickly as by the old
tortoise. On the trans-
continental line at pre-
sent, goods are being
carried at less than half
the cost of carrying
them, the balance being
charged to taxes, and
on the Canberra rail-
way the situation is
even worse. So in these
cases the real discrep-
ancy between train
costs and air costs is
much less than it looks.
Some war souvenirs
are not wanting in droll-
ery. For instance, the
swords of honor and
other gewgaws presented
by William the False
Alarm to his royal
allies. Nosey Ferdi-
nand of Bulgaria has
quite a collection of
symbols of triumph,
and there was a dia-
mond-hilted swoi’d pre-
sented to the Sultan of
Turkey after the Brit-
ish warships had tailed
to force the'Dardanelles.
The weapon was in-
scribed to “the Ever Vic-
torious” or “tin Unconquerable,” or words
to that effect. Such a sparkling jest ought
not to be left to pass quietly into a Con-
stantinople pawnshop.
* * * *
“Syd Ney” : Nobody with any sense expects
life aboard a trooper to be all roses; but.
weary Billjim, especially if he is
returning home in a damaged con-
dition, sees no reason why it should
be all prickly-pear. With the
memory of my homeward trip still
green, I write with sympathy for
the men of the Sardinia. I hap-
pened to be in the same convoy
as the Gaika, concerning whose
voyage a military inquiry was re-
cently held in Melbourne. There
is one thing that will always
rankle. We came by the Panama
route, which entails a long spell in
the tropics. During those swel-
tering days we were regularly fed
on hot soup, roast meat, boiled
spuds (of a sort) and sometimes
boiled fruit and rice. That was
not bad tucker, if it had been
cooked decently. But to see the
stewards running along the deck
with iced water for the officers’
dining-tables, and to peep at those
birds dining like first-class passen-
gers. while we swilled, like hogs,
made many a good Aussie boil. In
hundreds of cases officers and men
came out of the same house. But
in these matters we don’t seem
able to slough the English idea that officers
and men necessarily belong to different
castes.
* * * *
“C.V.E.”: This was one of the best com-
pliments ever paid to the Aussies in France.
The occasion was Jerry’s final effort to break
through. Villers Bretonneux had been
partly captured; Villers Wood was falling
into their hands and Huns were swarm-
ing along the Amiens road. A British
staff-officer was hurrying the civilians from
a hamlet beyond Villers. Two very old
women were laboriously carting out their
little odds and ends from a small estaminet
and piling them on a hand-cart. Just as
they were about to get away, one of them
shrieked "Vive Ausirdlie! Vive Australia!"
and the leading mob of Aussies, rushed up
from Armentieres, swung round the corner,
bayonets fixed —same old devil-may-care
grins, same old curses. The old women
looked up at the impatient staff-officer. “Soldat
Austrdlie ?” they queried. " Oui, Madam.'’'
“Tres tien,” said the old Frenchwomen, and
immediately started to transfer their goods
back into their homes.
* * * *
“Tiki”: In the Nile, about a mile from
Opera Square, Cairo, lies an island. The
APROPOS.
BILLY ( aeronaut ) : "There, there, dear,
don't worry so. There is a special Provi-
dence watching over us birdmen."
HORTENSE ( sobbing ) : “I know, I know.
Matthew x, 29; ‘Are not two sparrows
sold for a farthing! And one of them
shall not fall on the ground' —and all
that."
Cairo guides tell all the tourists that Moses
ended his perilous voyage in the ark of bul-
rushes on its shores. A party of Diggers
visited this historic landing-place one after-
noon, and held their noses over the rank mud
and filth. The following afternoon they
returned with two Aussie sisters. The same
Gippo guide took possession of the party and
led them to a dry, clean spot about a hun-
dred yards from the place he had pointed out
the previous afternoon. When all had halted
he announced: “Dis(, Mr. Captain, where
Moses land from de ark of bulrush in de
year two tousand befo’ de Christ.” _ “But,
Hassan,” expostulated one of the Diggers,
“you took us down there yesterday and told
us that that was where Moses came ashore.”
“Yus, yus, Mr. Captain,” said Hassan quite
unembarrassed, “but too muddy for de
ladies.”
* * * *
Adelaide is having a newspaper contro-
versy', the unusual complaint of nearly all
the "writers being that capital punishment
has not been inflicted. The saving of John
Grindell from the gallows, even after the
Executive had considered his case and de-
cided against clemency, was a triumph for
the Adelaide Mail, which obtained a state-
ment from the widow of the supposedly-
murdered man that she thinks he is very
likely not dead at all. The letter-writers
in the other papers are mostly people of the
wild district where the two men lived, and
they seem to have no doubt that it was a
murder, and a particularly brutal one But
bones found in a fire are evidence on which
it is uncomfortable to go as far as hanging
a man.
* * * *
“Sea-urchin”: Somebody did future return-
ing Expeditionaries a bad tuir by producing
the fact, as evidence of lack of discipline,
that gambling went on aboard the Sardinia.
Of course it did. It is the one diversion that
makes sea-life endurable for about seven
people out of 10 even in normal times, and
on liners that are the last word in luxury.
On a transport with no space for cricket,
deck games, dancing or any of the recog-
nised ship-board sports, what- is to be done
but gamble? Remember that the libraries
on transports are usually rotten, and that
in any case they are in the saloon, where
the rank and file can’t go; that the trip lasts
10 weeks; that none but coaling-ports are
touched. Remember finally that the Digger
is, for good or evil, a persistent gambler and
you have some measure of the agony of bore-
dom that threatens that section of the A.I.F.
which has still to return. Hitherto wise
C.O.’s have winked at gambling. From now
onwards they may not dare to. The first
transport that goes in pursuit of the world’s
record of a non-gambling run from F.ngland
to Australia will land here with the fullest
clink and the most maddened lot of officers
and men in the history of expeditionary war-
fare.
* * * *
A hair perchance divides the false and true,
A cliff Macleay-street and Woolloomooloo;
Thus cheek-by-jowl the mistress of the house
Dwells, and the mistress of the master too!
* * * *
Breathless idea from a flapper :
I have a gorgeous idea, and if you don’t put it
in your old paper I’ll never borrow it again. Only
fancy, Paderewski i| President of Poland —that is
where the Polar bears come from, isn’t it? and ex-
plains his wonderful hair—at last the professionals
we love are coming to their own, and of course
other countries will keep in step. America has
just one darling, dear old Charlie Chaplin—did you
see him tat macaroni with his nose, and didn’t
it make you die laughing?—and o' course they will
make him President after Wilson, and that will
be such a relief, for when Wilson is turned off,
somebody else may have a say in the newspapers.
But the perfectly lovely notion is about Australia.
Our world-known professional star is Melba,, and
she should be made Goveruor-Generaless at once.
The other old thing—what’s his name? I’ve asked
all the house and no one knows; bait you will
find it in the telephone book—can go back to
England or wherever he came from. Fancy our own
lady-President, the first in the world; and she
would just fit the part, wouldn’t she? Just fancy
how too sweet for anything being presented at
Government House to Melba; and then instead of
making long, horrid speeches, she would sing just as
Paddy will play his answer to deputations on the
piano; and Charlie will show Congress how to
slide down stairs when it’s shikkered. And Melba
would change her title to something nice—l don’t
like Dame, do you?
* * * *
That remarkable woman, Kttie Rout, who
first in Egypt and afterwards in France
has been battling bravely to save the Digger
and liis Maoriland cobber from Y r .D. infec-
tion, simply accepted the armistice as a rea-
son for working harder. “Whatever you do,
go home clean!” is the burden of her song
these days; and, as hitherto, she tells them
bow to do it. Incidentally she gives them
this certificate :—-
The Australians and Maorilandevs are _ now the
cleanest troops that have ever come to Paris. Since
September 25 to date (November 14) we have had
only one M.L. soldier and one Australian soldier in-
fected and reporting sick at Paris Centre, whereas
other troops on leave in Paris at the same time have
had hundreds of infections.
Naturally Miss Rout isn’t beloved of the
military authorities; she is too intolerant
A RUMOR WAKES UP BERTIE.
“I say, y' know, this war-work is damned
hard on a chap; what!"
“ Heavens! What war-work are you doing?"
"Gad, I've been all the hally day—er—look-
ing out for enemy aeroplanes."
of red tape, and much too plain and blunt
in speech. But half a million mothers and
sweethearts and sisters ought to remember
her wfith gratitude and affection.
(Continued on page IS.)
THE SLUMP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The ending of the war has left
Us lacking in excitement:
Of lots of news we are bereft
Which with that mighty fight went,
Again we note the small event,
And heed the empty babble
Of such as sit in Parliament
And gabble, gabble, gabble.
The marriage or the death of Jones,
The headache that depressed us,
We talk of in emphatic tones
As things that interest us;
Men maundered in the recent past
Of cannons, bombs and rifles,
Who, though the sky’s still overcast,
Are now concerned with trifles.
We miss the war, and that’s a fact,
We critics at a distance,
Who thrilled each time the Huns attackt
And “met a stout resistance.”
Dry news, as in the days of yore,
We’ll soon again be fed on:
And even though more cannons roar
They’ll not be Armageddon.
VICTORIA.
O. K.


m i
® m
.
■
■:
ns
r
m H ■
Warn Mm
SB
V '
iiSlm
f K
. ~n
g
/
Ms Si
\
mm
■t
•,
v-V
**##**/++.
mr&mm
mm
i m
m
The Record of
Goodyear Cord Tyres
Goodyear Cords have completely
captured the racing field in the U.S.A.
Every important race in America last
year was won on Goodyear Cords.
The recent record between Sydney
and Brisbane was established on them.,
besides several other recent Australian
records.
Goodyear Cords have proved buoyant
and strong enough for cross country
service on five ton trucks driven at
passenger car speeds. They are giving
wonderful results in motor bus and
motor lorry service under City,
Suburban and Country road conditions
throughout Australia.
Goodyear Cords on passenger cars
ensure easier riding and reduced petrol
consumption. Speed is increased and
acceleration quickened. Best of all
much greater tyre mileage is obtained.
Nearly all Australian car owners using
Goodyear Cords acknowledge 12,000
miles and over, while some get as
much as 20,000 miles from each
Goodyear Cord Tyre.
Investigate the saving you can effect
by equipping your car with Goodyear
Cord Tyres.
Goodyear Tyres, Heavy Tourist Tubes and “Tyre Saver” Accessories are easy to get from Goodyear Service Station Dealers.
Branches and Agencies all Principal Cities.
Service Stations and Dealers Everywhere.


ZANETIC Pendiiplrcating Paper ensures perfect,
permanent copies with absolute ease. If your dealer
does not stock, send to 5.8., Zanetic Works, Leicester,
England. It’s All-British, and economical in use. [2
Va
J
BS
o
A.
n
a
vM
'////////;//
m
w.
er
15PB
pMil
vn
.^5
D
//////////A
Q
i
<
I
r-
'////////////'
V////
I
<
i
<1
§
v///.
or
s
o
I
As
o
as
i
m
"'//*
4
r,
o
L'
Say
Brmcls
Gin 'and
looK for
this label
-Youll
be pleased
with the
result
To meet the
demand
TOOHEYS
Have brewed a
Special Stout
Equal to Imported.
TRY IT.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management ol Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
-Managing Director.
“Duglio” : An admiring Blighty paper once
called us “these big, shy cousins of ours
from ‘down under.’” Most Aussies are shy
but once start us and most of us can make
the pace. Late one night we hit a French
town, the natives of which had never before
seen a Digger’s hat. At 8 o’clock next morn-
ing we were told we would be there for
perhaps a week, and would be given a few
hours’ leave each day. An hour after our
first leave opened I passed a cobber making
his way back to the billets, and hailed him
with, “Hullo, Dig', fed up with the town
already?” He grinned. “Fed up be !
I’m going to get some washing to take down
home r
* # * *
“Hawk”: “We British are stupid, and
therein lies our strength. When we are in
danger we don’t realise it, because we have
no imagination. Hence we remain calm and
come out of it always with honor.” So
Andre Maurois, quoted by S. M. ' Herald.
The Herald might blazon the quotation
over its doorway as its motto, the secret
of its success; and that success, valued in
millions, is not to be sneezed at. To say of
every proposed innovation, “The time is not
ripe” is not only easy but profitable; for you
echo the sentiments of the moneyed men over
40, and of such are the advertisers. To
cherish the advertiser by respecting all that
he respects; to be, as it were, a British butler
with the wooden face of servility for any
form of authority; to reverence things as
they are, because they are; and to oppose all
that is new, because it is new, is a mental
poise leading to the political, social, jour-
nalistic fleshpots. This fact should be bet-
ter known to the young man desiring to
smoke better cigars, or to pay off the time-
WHEN THE SOUTHERLY CAME UP.
“Gee! But I'm glad I got me kimony on.”
payment furniture. Be stupid and polite,
and open swing the gates of emolument.
Doubting this, visit the heads of Govern-
ment departments, the Ministers themselves,
or the directing powers of the big newspapers.
Be smiling, wooden, and follow Red Tape ; you
are then reliable, a man of weight and ap-
preciated by your superiors, they having like
qualities. For stupidity there is no punish-
ment ; for where would it end if we gaoled
all the fools? As a Federal Minister you
build a city in a wilderness as a lair for din-
goes, squandering millions ; as a State Min-
ister, you make a child’s contract with Nor-
ton Griffith and squander millions; or you
drop an odd million in absurd abattoirs.
What is the retribution? You and all con-
cerned hold your job ; for all is pardoned to
a fathead, if only he be “respectable.”
“Streptococcus”: The influenza bacillus is
practically uon-pathogenic to animals; that
is, it can be injected under the skin, or
into a vein, without causing any ill effects.
But the very latest view is that the bacillus
■influenza is not the true virus of the disease,
the trouble being caused by an organism that
is a filter passer. The experiments were made
on volunteers with filtrated bronchial secre-
tions from two monkeys which had an attack
of influenza. One of the volunteers was
injected with the filtrate under the skin,
and had a typical attack of the disease,
which lasted 12 days. Another volunteer
had a slight attack on the 6th day. Injec-
tions of the filtrate into the veins of other
volunteers was negative, nor did the injec-
tion of 3. c.c. of blood from a bonnet monkey
suffering from influenza have any ill effects.
It is concluded, therefore, that the infective
agent is a filter-passing organism, and that
the virus does not occur in the blood of
man or animals. On the other hand, the
.bacillus of influenza has occasionally been
found in the blood.
* * * *
“Glenirig”: Something on a large scale
is about to be attempted by a Mel-
bourne firm of silk-importers. These
men are Syrians, and they have bought
3000 acres of low-grade land near
Wensleydale, with the intention of mak-
ing a start with cocoon-producing. Dave
Oman, Minister for Silkworms, has been ap-
proached by the firm, which wants him to
import enough white mulberries to plant one-
tenth of the area ; and he is alleged to have
promised to push the Ministry in the right
direction —not a particularly lavish promise,
considering that the State has for some time
been providing all and sundry with young
trees at a penny each. The Syrians’ scheme
is to be partly co-operative, since it will
involve the cutting up of the Wensleydale
acres into “family-size” blocks and the settle-
ment of the right sort of workers thereon.
Little Willie and Annie will do their bit, of
course, and no doubt the firm shoving the
scheme along will decide what the “right sort”
of worker is; so the Government should play
safe and tack to its mulberry-trees a little
list of anti-sweating provisions.. Sweated
industries are no good to Australia.
* * * *
“Frank R”: There is another outbreak
of dreadful tales about Johnny Turk’s in-
famous treatment of our troops; but my
experience of him wasn’t at all like that.
As a stretcher-bearer I several times went
over the top and brought back men who
had fallen in or near the Turkish trenches.
Generally, Abdul had dressed their wounds
and : in serious cases had carried the men,
under cover of darkness, half-way to our
trenches, where we found them the follow-
ing morning. During the fighting at “Hill
60” I was detailed to approach almost to
the verge of a Turkish trench to bring
back a wounded Maorilander. When we
reached him we found that he had
received six different dressings, and he told
us that after his wounds had been attended
to he had been given warm coffee and
later had been ulaced over the trench
where we found him. On another occasion
a Turkish shell burst. over one of our
hospital ships and injured a nurse. When
we heard of the incident we placed a
note in a jam-tin informing Abdul of the
A GOOD SETTLEMENT.
ATTORNEY FOR CLAIMANT (interviewing other party) : “Are you prepared to make
an offer of compensation for my client’s injuries?”
THE OTHER PARTY (who knew his mark) : “Twenty pounds is the best I can do-£l5
for you and £5 for the claimant.”
ATTORNEY FOR CLAIMANT : “Hum, a very reasonable offer; you may take it my client
will agree.”
nurse's injury. Half an hour later the tin
was hurled back, with a note apologising
for the mishap and explaining that the
shell was defective. During the Senussi
Campaign the prisoners who were captured
when the Arabs sank the gunboat Tara
stated, on being rescued by the Duke of
Westminster’s armored cars, that what
little kindness they did receive was from
the Turkish general Nuri Bey and his
troops. Certainly I know of several of
our wounded being killed in Palestine, but
I believe that the Bedouins did it —many
of them were serving with the Turkish
army.
* * * *
“Solomon Malaprop”: The Italian is a
poet and artist at the top. Hence he sup-
plied the world with St. Peter’s and Milan
Cathedral and thousands of other rparvels,
and crowded his land with pictures and
statuary, and had superfluous artists for ex-
port—the men who devised tin Taj Mahal in
India and did building for the Mongol em-
pire, and otherwise scattered themselves over
the globe. But the rest of him is hard
business, he being the person who invented
pawnbrokery and algebra and modern bank-
ing and book-keeping by double entry and
the wholesale bribery of political candidates.
So President Wilson selected the wrong kind
of audience when he discoursed at Home
about “binding the nations together by
friendship” and “setting up a new inter-
national psychology” and about “th c cre-
ation of a real new atmosphere” as the sur-
est guarantee against future wars. The
brutal German wallows in hazy, dreamy,
friendly, brotherly, philanthropic, school-
masterly phrases like these. The rather
kindly Italian doesn’t. He is someth!jg like
the Hollander, who produced" the wonderful
school of Dutch painters, while he pursued
the herring-fishery with a fury that beat the
fury of the Inquisition in a canter and sold
schnapps to all the human race. A statesman
of experience who wants to do business with
the Italian addresses himself to that side
of his mind which-invented book-keep'ng by
double entry, not to the aspect which devised
the Leaning Tower of Pisa. And the hard
diplomatist who has a trade to do with Hol-
land and has any sort of a case addresses
himself to the country as the father of
Schnapps, not the father of Rembrandt.
“Centurion”: “Bill Bowyang’s” conten-
tion that a few of the Cameliers came into
action at Katia on the second day of the
Romani actions, when the Turkish retreat
had begun, does nothing to uphold his rather
extravagant claim that his corps was fore-
most in the actions of this retreat and
that it had on one occasion “got the Light
Horsemen out of a hole.” The fact remains
that the Cameliers failed badly to connect
at Bir-el-abd, and let the A.L.11. down.
This because they had not trained their
mounts to long unwatered spells, but had
followed the stable routine laid down in the
drill-book while camped on the canal. A
camel watered every day expects his daily
drink, and to get him to go for days without
water he has to be educated to it. There
were no better chaps going than the camel-
iers, but they weren’t the whole team and
the little yellow dog under the waggon, and
their “mounts” simply couldn’t compare
with Australian horses.
* * * *
Stuart Town, formerly known as Iron-
bark, near Wellington (N.S.W ). has
strengthened Australia’s gold reserve. An
ancient lady resident there died on Christ-
mas Day, which was her 86th. After the
funeral her friends and relatiyes made a
search and found .-£1350 in moneys • The
greater part was sewn up in the bed-ticking.
A canvas bag held 650 sovereigns, none of
later date than 15 years back. An old-
fashioned flounced skirt had £lOO in its
folds. The hoarder is said to have had two
bottles of gold, saved, no doubt, from old
Ironbark days. But the search party couldn’t
find" that plant.
* * * *
The five miles of tram cable which
reached Melbourne at last in the Austral-
glen was a Jonah cargo. First shipped in
the Ivyarra, it received its baptism of sea-
water when that vessel was caught by a
U-boat. Recovered, it next headed for the
South in the Barunga, which was also outed
by the enemy. Then the Boorara received
the unlucky consignment, and the crew of
that vessel blamed the long steel Jonah
for being twice torpedoed and beached. The
Boorara, by the way, was originally a
German liner, which tried to bolt to sea
at the outbreak of war; but a well-placed
shot across her bow from the Port Phillip
batteries (the first fired in Australia for
war purposes) put' a full-stop to the
manoeuvre.
THE ONLY PLACE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Gissiffens was a nervous coot,
A hunted look had he,
fie made a tour the bolts to shoot
Directly after tea,
And locked the doors of all the sheds,
And started peeping under beds.
Thieves were his shivering spirit’s blight,
His conversation’s theme ;
They came, whene’er-he dozed, at night,
To rob him in a dream,
And half the time he. prowled around
Investigating every sound.
He disappeared; he left no trace;
The neighbors thought it odd ;
Then we dropped on his hiding place—
Oissifens was in quod!
And straightway hied we out to see
If we could probe the mystery.
What had he done? Or who? And why?
Could nothing set him free ?
There was contentment in his eye;
He’d no desire to flee,
But, 9miling, shook his shaven head.
“I’m safe from burglars here,” he said.
VICTORIA.
SYD. C.


m
'
m
HERS
m
M
■Q.,
■
m
lift
liss
m
m
m
m
r
■
<
m
mm
a®
im
m
SsHSgs
ISM
r- 1
sw
<*> •■■.
■
SS
s+s-
mm
■ • -S*!
.
;si
nw-i 711
© S*
• '• -
IS
S
M^
'
(fe -sf
as
*-
s-
m
161
Hy;
/-•
at. .£3 S»:W
ff*
®JU *
V- -V-l:
: *;L
r>-v
•
.
Adamax Roofing: “The Best
Roofing Money Gan Buy.”
Judged by users all over Australia it has proved itself the
best roofing for Australia’s climatic conditions, and the
best quality roofing of its type. On Factories, Bungalows,
Garages, Mine Buildings, Farm Buildings, Wool and
Grain Sheds —everywhere it has made a name for its
unfailing quality.
ASPHALTUM ROOFING
is most economical in every way. First cost is only one-third that of
galvanised-iron with a similar saving in freightthe cost of laying it is very
small, as any handy man can do the job. Adamax upkeep cost is practically nil.
Adamax is element proof—a retardant to fire—rust and rot-proof —clean,
attractive and serviceable. It is not affected by acids, gases or chemical
fumes. It is the roofing that stands for Real —the roofing that
stands the test of time.
Sold in rolls covering 22 square yards allowing 2in. overlap—in 1-ply (thin),
2-ply (medium), and 3-ply (thick).
Free booklet, ‘The Adamax Series,” gives full and practical information.
William Adams ®, Co. Ltd.
175 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE: 521=523 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE: 96 Currie Street,
PERTH : 33 King Street.
BRISBANE: Cr. Edward & Mary Streets.
W±bA


PRACTICAL PRESCRIPTION
AGAINST STOMACH ACIDITY.
BY A SPECIALIST.
“Nine-tenths of all cases of stomach trouble
nowadays,” says a leading specialist, “are
caused by too much acid. In the beginning
the stomach itself is not diseased, but if this
acid condition is allowed to continue the
acid is very likely to eat into the stomach
walls and produce stomach ulcer, which may
render a radical surgical operation necessary,
even to prolong life. Therefore an acid
stomach’ is really a dangerous condition
and should be treated seriously. It is
utterly useless to take pepsin and ordinary
stomach tablets. The excess acid must be
neutralised by the administration of an
efficient antacid. Foir this purpose physicians
nearly always recommend taking half a tea-
spoonful of bisurated magnesia in a little
water after each meal. Large quantities
may be used, if necessary, as it is absolutely
harmless. But be sure to get the bisurated
magnesia, as other forms of magnesia have
not the same action in the stomach as , tae
bisurated, and frequently do more harm than
good.”— Advt.
Use IRELAND’S
Baking Powder.
You always add its quality to your cooking,
whether you use it in Cakes, Scones, Pastry, etc.
Use it wherever the recipe calls for Baking Powder.
Ireland’s Baking Powder is economical and safe.
Buy it of your grocer and try it.
Let your own experience with it convince you ; it
answers the Baking Powder question.
None other could be better —because no better in-
gredients can be procured than those we use,
W'hilst our scientific mixing makes every tin of
uniformly high quality.
Sold everywhere. Ask your grocer for a tin to-dav.
J. IRELAND LTD.,
NEWCASTLE.
ONOTo
Business is Business
■Even your pen can be a time saver. It is foolish to use an old-fashioned dipping
steel pen when you can use the fountain pen that fills itself and cannot leak.
Own an OIM OTO-and save your time and money. A perfect writing imple-
ment that never scratches nor splutters—that is guaranteed by its makers.
Price u P w ards ; Also ONOTO Valveless for those
who do not want a Self-Filling Safety Fen 1«£76
of all stationers, jewellers and stores.
Manufacturers: Thos. De La Rue & Co., Ltd., 351 Bunhill Row, London, L.C.
Managing Agents ; Norman Baker &■ Longhurst, Sydney
Ask for ONOTO INK—Best for all Pons
POLITIONAL
POINTS
The N. S. Wales political machines are
getting ready for a State election in Sep-
tember.
There is a struggle going on underground
for the right to export gold without Govern-
ment sanction. The demand needs to be
looked at very hard. One thing we ought
to be particularly careful about is not to
cause a rapid slump in the general level of
prices; and we shall help to maintain prices
by hanging on to as much of our gold as pos-
sible. The maintenance of prices will be
all in our favor because we have lately bor-
rowed enormously; and every shrinkage in
prices makes the debt larger, for all practi-
cal purposes.
A PARTICULAR CUSTOMER.
“The Bolsheviks are flooding the country with
worthless paper money.”— Cable.
BOLSHEVIK, JUNIOR: “ Gimme a ha’penny-
worth of lolliesky; an’ don’t wrap them
up in one o’ your dirty banknotes.”
Monash is attending to the military side
of demobilisation in England. Meßeath
(Chairman of the Commission which raked
ithe Defence administration) is to attend to
the business side. Pearce’s part of the busi-
ness will be no side in particular—just
•‘side.”
The Bulletin was frowned upon when it
laughed at Hughes’s fantastic claim that he
had “solved the metal problem.” Now, at
the very first bit of rough road, the whole
blessed scheme has broken down. Metal
is piling up in Australia and the Mt.
Morgan Co. has announced that, though it
will struggle on as long as it can, the
position is one of the gravest anxiety. Ihe
fact, plain enough from the outset, was
that Hughes never had a scheme to ensure
buyers. All he had was one to restrict
sellers.
Australia’s Protectionist tariff is one of
the things that are always coming but never
happen. Fisher promised it both times he
was in office. Hughes promised it in two
public speeches. Watt promised it in ldll-
Even Cook promised it. But always it is
defeated by the unwritten alliance between
the importers who don’t. want Australian
industries, because industries would interfere
with imports, and the Bolshevik crow! which
doesn’t want them because they might create
an employer class which is accursed. Be-
tween these two foreign elements mere
ordinary Australia falls in.
Thus Acting-Prime Minister Watt, in his
budget speech:—
Large areas of country in all parts of the
[Northern] Territory previously held under annual
tenure have during the past year been converted
into pastoral leases of forty-two years’ duration,
with conditions as to improvements and stocking.
Twelve years ago a party of Federal poli-
ticians visited Darw’in, and wrote many
things about the Territory. One was that
the country had been locked up by the South
Aus. Government on 42-year leases, and
hands were held up in horror at the outrage.
If leases did fall in they were renewed only
year by year. Now Glynn, from South Aus.,
who is ihe Minister responsible for the Terri-
tory, has locked the lands for another 42
years. Why? If there are people wanting
the lands, shorter leases would have been
ample encouragement. In Queensland since
the Act of 1884, no less than 70,000,000
acres of pastoral country has been settled
in grazing-farms and grazing homesteads.
That is within 35 years; yet the Common-
w'ealth Government is locking country up
in vast leases for nearly half a century. Gil-
ruth reports finding sub-artesian water
along the Macarthur-Katherine route, and a
big artesian supply has been tapped near
Lake Eyre. Probably that explains the milk
in the nut.
Theoretical Bolshevism, at all events, is
now the order of the day among those who
make most noise at Labor meetings. The
French Labor Mission was practically
howled down both at Newcastle and Sydney
because it didn’t approve of the “no-Govern-
ment, no-law and no-property”
ideal. John Storey and Frank
Tudor and their kind are quite
back numbers now as Labor lead-
ers ; in fact, part of the Sydney
Trades Hall meeting which boo-
hooed the French Laborites stated
candidly that there is no hope till
John Storey is dead. Instead of
leading the revolution it looks as
if he might be hanged by the revolution for
not going fast enough—hanged from the
post-office tower as a disguised minion of
capitalism.
A recent S.M. Herald tale was about
the United States. It admitted that that
country’s exports, now mostly manufactured
goods, are 2J times what they were before
the war; that it has taken Britain’s place
as the world’s chief creditor; that it
has bought up in the last four years
£2,000,000,000 worth of securities, formerly
held in Europe, and so on. And it never
once hinted that the United States has a
mighty tariff which helps it to do
these wonderful things, while Australia, a
place about the same size, with a mighty
free list, sticks in the mud and goes deeper
in debt. The Tory press is a real Archi-
medean lever. As a leaver of things unsaid
it has no rival.
If a large section of the wheat cockies
have their way the wheat-pool system isn’t
going to vanish after the war. There are
already co-operative grain cos. in all the
wheat States, and they reckon they can run
the whole business without private agents
and shippers, not to mention speculators,
getting a cut out of the crop. The big
obstacle to climb over is finance; but it is
hoped that the Commonwealth Bank will
come to the rescue. If the thing can be
worked and is properly managed, the eco-
nomic advantages to the farmer and Aus-
tralia are obvious. The opposition that will
be forthcoming from the big wheat shippers
is also obvious.
S. Australia has been the pioheer of
many reforms, and it looks as though it
may soon have another to its credit. Any-
way, Commissioner of Insolvency Mitchell,
who knows something of business as well as
law, has started a campaign for the intro-
duction of the French system of compelling
every tradesman to keep a set of books on
a statutory plan. It ought to save the
Taxation offices a few thousands a year to
start with.
It is stated openly that the point on
which Clemenceau of France and Wilson of
the U.S. disagree is that the latter wants
Germany to be admitted at once
to the League of Nations and
the former doesn’t. There have
been meetings of the Great
Powers ever since there were
Great Powers, but the U.S. has
been consistently absent. Which
means that it hasn’t dined regu-
larly with the Hun. France and
Britain and Italy have, and
they have found the animal’s
manners awful. At the Berlin
conference of 1878, though .he
hadn’t then reached anything
like his subsequent height of
arrogance, he was frankly un-
bearable. Bismarck’s roar broke
in on everybody’s speech, and he
was an ultimatum all the time. The Ilun
would require to be licked in three more
wars before he would be pleasant company.
The Argus never looks at w’ages questions
from the employees’ point of view. It snorts
at a poor drudge whose pittance has been
raised from 15 to 30 shillings a week, com-
plaining of his enmity to the employer who
doubles his own income every few years.
Yet the difference between envious wage-
earners and intolerant wage-payers is so
marked that even a Tory journal might be
expected to notice it occasionally. The
workers never reckon on amassing great
wealth by means of their labor, whereas
their employers do. To judge from the
Argus’s tone, one would suppose that the
LYNCH, M.II.R.
( W[?]rriwa).
associated tramway drivers and conductors,
for instance, were artfully scheming to die
rich.
The low-wage and long-hour enthusiast
among the farming community, who regards
the wretched remuneration and rotten con-
ditions of the old days as the one and only
hope of the industry, should reflect on the
fact that almost all his labor-saving machin-
ery has originated in America, the pre-
eminently high-wage country. So long as
brawn is valued above brain, and muscle
has to perform what can be done by machin-
ery, so long will farming remain a dreary,
bullocking, poorly-productive sort of busi-
ness. Had America wallow T ed along in the
belief that a 12-bob-a-week Hodge was the
mainstay of the industry, Hodge would still
have been delving away with much sweat
and little result.
A fear arises that Monash may have
arranged for repatriating so many Aus-
tralian soldiers before-Pearce comes footling
along that the latter will hardly be able to
find a decent excuse for his six months’ holi-
day and his expenses bill* Monash has fixed
for 15 transports to sail in January with
16,328 soldiers and nurses and an unspeci-
fied number of dependants and munition-
workers. He hopes to have similar or even
larger February, March and April contin-
gents away and others arranged for by the
time Pearce arrives. Monash fought bis way
to the supreme Australian command amid
the fierce competition of Avar, partly by cour-
age, partly by his wonderful capacity for
organisation. Pearce was a bi dding carpen-
ter when he was younger, and has been an
inferior machine politician since he has been
older. Still he is Monash’s boss, and he has
to annex the credit of the repatriation job
lest people should judge him by the muddled
accounts of his department.
A FRIEND AT LAST.
B ESS: “You seem happy, Marjorie. Is Bobbie
paying you more attention?"
MARJORIE: “No; but he’s slopped writing
to all the other girls since Mr. Webster
put up the postage.”
Even Gunga Din is warning the world
that he isn’t going to much longer put up
with such idiocies as the growing of wool
for others to wash and weave. His par-
ticular trouble is linseed; and his Govern-
ment has told ours that if we want his oil
we must buy it and not his raw material.
State finance becomes more and more of a
labyrinth. The Ryan Government’s latest
idea is that if any deceased person held
shares in a co. which didn’t belong to
Qfieensland, but happened to have assets
there, however small, or if the co. that the
deceased was in held shares in another co.
which had assets in Queensland, then his
estate must pay separate probate duty in
Queensland on his proportion of these assets.
If the other States follow suit then it will
become a case of paying duty three times
over—once to the State where the co. was
located, once to all other States in which
the co. had assets, and once to the Com-
monwealth. A person W'ith ar interest in a
concern like the A.M.P., which has assets
everywhere, would then have an exciting
time after death in addition to what Peter
might say to him at the Gate. Probably
Ryan hopes that the other States won’t
follow suit, so that Queensland will collect,
but not be collected from. These catch-
penny devices don’t pay much and cost a
lot in stationery and clerks’ wages, but they
give small-minded politicians a feeling _of
warmth in the stomach because they think
they have got ahead of the reptile contem-
porary across the border.
The man w 7 ho took over the misfortunate
oil-mines at Newnes (N.S.W.), being struck
wuth a demand for 25 per cent, increase in
wages, reckons the place will have to shut
up again. It would probably have shut,
anyhow. The whole tragedy of Newnes is
expressed in that one line in the tariff:
“Kerosene, free.” However, Minister Millen
reckons new industries are superfluous, so
why worry?
SUPPRESSED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Webster believes that all newspapers in
Australia should be suppressed.” —Sydney Sunday
Times.
Statesmen may blunder, politicians fail,
Even a P.M.G. may mess his job.
The burglar burgles on the midnight pale
When cribs are easiest to crack and rob.
Our human nature is a doubtful thing;
The fastest train is easiest to miss;
And it may chance that lips above a ring
Of wedded bondage seem the best to kiss.
All these are simple facts; and the distress
Of all the world makes fodder for the press.
Why should the public know ? ’Twere easier far
To tread the narrow pathway or the broad
If no one even guessed the things that arc
Or dreamed of chance or change or truth or fraud.
Keep it all dark! Be silent as the grave!
It is not good the public eye should see
The way its own paid servitors behave,
Or trace the antics of a P.M.G.
Dinkum reform and permanent redress
Must come by the suppression of the press.
Thus should it be if Webster had his way:
A smiling land devoid of wrath or rows
Wherein, with ignorance to match the day,
The people wandered to and frp as cows.
Who then would rage for letters gone amiss
Or telegrams that wait delivery still,
While, tootling-in an ecstasy of bliss,
The gentle statesman sang a stomach pill?
The Webster-song would get a chance to bless
Its hearers, but for mockery of the press!
And yet, and yet—without the printed word,
Without the inky blast that counts for fame
The pride of statecraft might be held absurd
And few would even know great Webster’s name.
Without those columns under headlines fair
What chance had P.M.G. of public praise
When his report against a land’s despair
Convinced the crowd that losing letters pays?
Ah, Webster, spare one tootle or caress
For that which makes and mocks —the people's
press !
N.S.W.
PAT O’MAORI.


The Murdoch Way to
Suit Satisfaction
is a way that appeals to smart dressers,
because it means that you pay enough and
no more. You get the right style and the
right quality in your clothes. If that’s
your ideal you’ll find it in
Murdoch
Suits to
Measure,
84/-
95/-
110/-
Other
Prices
for
MURDOCH
Suits-to-Measure
701-
These suits are tailored from reliable Eng-
lish and Australian Tweeds —smart cloths
in neat designs and popular shadings. The
tailoring throughout reaches the highest
standard, which assures unequalled value.
There is one simple way to test these asser-
tions.
LEAVE YOUR ORDER TO=DAY
You take no risk—our guarantee, '‘Satisfac-
tion or money back/’ protects you fully.
Call and choose the suiting you favor, or
write Desk R for patterns.
DESK R.
MESSRS. MURDOCH'S IK PARK STREET, LTD.,
SYDNEY.
Please forward patterns of Summer Suitings at
Suit-to-Measure, with tape and self-measure-
ment form.
Name
Address
Murdoch’s $t.K Sydney
“Complete Outfitters for Men and Boys
uuniauimnsw P UIS ai-noaia asno\|3ui*saM \jsijijg avji
.i.ii'nmmimiiiiiuiiiimiinmimiiiiiimiiimmmimiiimiiiimmiiiimiiiimiiimmitiiiiiiimmimiiimimirui
Westinghouse
Tramway Controllers
'•
Pis
\"«KS
SOME SPECIAL FEATURES:
Exceptionally strong mechanical construction.
Simple mechanism with minimum number of parts.
All parts made to gauge and strictly interchangeable.
Liberal rating of all current carrying parts.
Low maintenance.
All wearing parts easily and cheaply renewable.
Renewable finger and drum arcing tips.
All parts easily accessible both for inspection and repairs.
Simple method of cutting out either motor, when required.
Most powerful magnetic controller blow-out on the market.
Constant finger tension irrespective of wear.
Stubbing entirely prevented by special design of finger springs.
All connections are visible on removal of front cover.
Ample space for incoming cables.
AUSTRALIAN OFFICES: 84 William Street, Melbourne; 14 Martin Place, Sydney.
AGENTS: ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Perth.
fstingtunw
Manchester
Careful Treatment Ensures
Longer Battery Life
m
■fOJ
K
m
iMm
~s\
A
Ik.
&
m
r 9
$
'ill/
jt:;::
'lth '
ir~,
Of course you want to get the
utmost service from your Battery —
and this is only possible by giving it
the care it deserves.
You must keep
your Battery
Charged
and by following a few simple in-
structions (which we will be pleased
to give you) you will squeeze out
every day of service there is in that
battery.
Let us advise you —and at
the same time demonstrate
the superiority of
THE STILL BETTER
STORAGE
BATTERY
#
18
Willard Threaded Rubber Insulation
The “WILLARD” means a Hotter Spark,
a quicker start, brighter lights and vitality
to carry overload and work overtime.
Willard Stations all over New Zealand and Australia.
Manufactured by
Willard Storage Battery Company,
Cleveland, Ohio.
Goldberg 4.


g!S£a
3$
£
£
«
m
36
*
This is the
Registered
Trade Mark
Of the best
place to get
your
Fishing Tackle,
Guns, Rifles,
Cartridges,
Tennis Goods, etc.
'hcocd>&/ jMce
818 little Collins St., Melbourne.
LBtO
Water Lifted 500 ft.,
Pumped a Mile,
at a cost of about Id. per hour.
OUR FARM PUMP
ENGINE will do this as
well as cut chaff, saw
wood, work shearing-
machines, etc.. It can be
attached to a windmill of
almost any pump in three
minutes. Needs no mechanic
to fix or operate, and
works all day without
attention. Hundreds sold
and giving satisfaction.
£lO DOWN, BALANCE VERY EASY.
if interested in water supply or irrigation
state your working conditions and we will
quote. We stock Steam, Kerosene, Petrol
and Hot Air Engines, Centrifugal Pumps
and “Myer’s,” “Gould’s” and “Deming's”
Pumps for all services. Mackie’s Rock
and Water Borer, Working Heads and
Plants for deep well and bore pumping a
specialty. Immense stocks Challenge
Windmills and Water Supply accessories.
We erect plant if required and give easy
terms. Catalogues and expert advice free.
Langwill Bros. 8 Davies Pty. Ltd.
110-1 M Sturt Street, SOUTH MELBOURNE,
Near Princes Bridge.
A Signal Success
<3
The TOP-NOTCHScotch.
ABORGINAUTIES
MADE IN AUSTRAKIA
BARNES.LINSEED OIL
“Jacko”: Jimmy Susu, up here in Torres
Strait, has been pondering the question of just who
is “Big Guv’ment.” If things didn’t go quite right,
he was given lurid pictures of what “Big Guv’ment”
would do when it came on its periodical visit. At
first he looked with a certain amount of awe at the
little auxiliary schooner which brought round the
administrative officials from Thursday Island, and
he sang Gorsave with much fervor. But later on
another “Big Guv’ment” came along in a steamer
from down south; and Jimmy, who hadn’t been
down south, enlarged his ideas somewhat and added
“double forte” to the Anthem. Then he was told
to buck up and get the drawing-room dusted, and
put an extra shine on himself, because this time the
Big Guv’ment was coming 1 This Guv’ment was
certainly bigger, so far as numbers went; yet Jimmy
was disappointed—this Big Government didn’t wear
as much red braid and gold lace as decorated even
the village policeman’s uniform! Jimmy then tried
to gauge the status by the amount of free sweets
and calico and tobacco that each Big Guv’ment
brought; but he found this wasn’t always a reliable
guide. Some little time back Jimmy took a trip
down south himself, and has come back with a tale
that there everybody seems to be Big Guv’ment, and
that anyway there’s nothing to be frightened about,
because he himself heard “plenty white man say
dey no care along plurry Guv’ment! ” So now, when
Jimmy, squatting in the shade of a cocoanut, is
informed that “Big Guv’ment come,” he simply
turns a languid eye upward, calls to the missus to
get a few shells and curios on hand, and replies,
“Ah, we know dat one!”
“Potjostler Junior”: Tommy Atkins
doesn’t score all the points. Just after we took Bray
I had to go in for canteen stores. We used the
battalion officer’s mess cart, and, as it was raining
hard, the roads were execrable. On our way home
our old moke knocked up and it looked as though
we’d have to sleep in the cart that night. Just as
we had given up hope we saw ahead a mob of horses,
belonging to a Tommy regiment, feeding in a field
alongside the road. A gleam of joy appeared on my
driver’s dial. He coaxed the old crock along until
he got abreast of the other horses. Then pulling off
til? road, he unharnessed our stiff moke and turned
him adrift. The horse wandered over to the mob and
commenced feeding, while Billjim filled his pipe,
crawled into the mess cart and had a smoke. Half
an hour later he picked up the bridle, went into the
mob and brought out a big brown horse, harnessed
him up and off we trotted home. The prad we
drove away was a young brown ; the one we turned
loose was an old bay. But the Tommies never sus-
pected anything.
“Monyah”: “Frank It.” (B. 19/12/T8)
wants to know how many miles an alligator can
travel overland. My opinion is that the reptile
never goes further than a few yards from water.
1-Ie will crawl up on the bank and there lie perfectly
still, ready to glide back into the liquid at the
sightest alarm. It is a lesson in artistic diving
to see a big fellow take the water with scarcely the
smallest ripple. Alligators are not foragers on
land. “Frank R.’s” account of their making four-
and six-mile trips overland will need further cor-
roboration before this writer believes it.
• * * *
“Dug-out”: In the cattle country of North
Bananaland I came across a lonely grave by the road-
side, at the foot of a giant gum. About foun square
feet of bark had been stripped, and roughly cut into
the wood were these words: —,
Bill Harrigan lies here.
He didn’t know it was loaded.
“O’P.”: Gordon and I were camped in a
hut on the side of Mt,. Heemskirk (Tas.). For a
water supply we .depended on a little pool we had
dug, which caught the soakage from the
About 4000 frogs took a lease of this pool, and
their night music was worse than a brass band. One
night, exhausted by the vain effort to sleep, Gordon
took out a plug of gelignite and blew the pool
heavenward. After about a quarter of an hour’s ex-
quisite silence the blanky croaking started again over
our heads. Some of the frogs had landed on the roof.
* * * *
“Werrimee” : N.S.W. Chief See. Fuller, in
response to the almost daily reports of disastrous
bush fires, has issued a special appeal to all who
use phosphorus baits to exercise the greatest possible
vigilance. I have for years been urgently warning
the man outback against the lunacy of dropping
phosphorus about the landscape. It doesn’t get rid
of rabbits even with a severe drought doing its
best to help, but it kills our useful birds, poisons
fish in the streams (through the baits being washed
in during rain), besides endangering pastures, crops
and stock. I had thought Fuller was quite aware
of these risks, because his Department compels
landowners to use phosphorus. The same Department
is supposed also to administer the Birds Protection
Act. When the law aims at protecting birds with
one Act and causes their wholesale destruction by
another Act, it is more asinine than usual.
ALL OVER.
NURSE (to doctor, who, answering urgent
call, has lost complete control) : “Yer
needn't ter hurry like that.”
DEPLORABLE LEVITY.
REVEREND PERSON: “ Nothing more, I thank you. I have had sufficient.”
INTOXICATED WAITER: “ Buck up, ole fell'r. 'Ave a glass o' soup along o' me.”
“Jaymac” : Tell me honestly, what use as
tucker is the quandong? I’ve sampled the red dis-
appointment in various places and always found
the fruit bitter and unappetising. Did Binghi have
any use for the vegetable as food, or did he merely
use the stones as buttons for his fancy waistcoat ?
* * * *
“Wealsman”: According to Clive Lord,
secretary of Tas. Royal Society, there are only
three kinds of land snakes officially recorded in the
Speck. These are the tiger, the copper-headed or
superb, and the white-lipped whip-snake. The copper-
head, often erroneously called the “diamond snake”
—the true diamond-snake is a member of the python
family, and is not found in Tas. —is less common
than the tiger, the deadliest of all Australian ser-
pents. The whip is probably about as numerous as
the copperhead, and is found at all altitudes, from
sea-level up to 4500 ft. Lord
says that the bite of the
white-lipped crawler is seldom
if ever fatal. (Krefft de-
clared it non-venomous, but
bushmen whose dogs have
died suddenly after wrestling
with the whip speak disre-
spectfully of these ancient
authorities.) The species
may be white, dark brown,
red, green, or any intermedi-
ate shade, but always has
white markings on the lip,
sometimes extending back be-
yond the ;eyes. The tiger-
snake is found in three shades,
bush folk generally referring
to the dark specimens as black
snakes and to the lighter
samples as carpet-snakes.
They are wrong in both in-
stances, for neither the true
black nor the carpet-snake is
found in Tas. Lord says in
effect that color cannot be
regarded in the classification
of the species. If a snake
above the size of a whip-snake
is met with in the Tas. bush,
the odds are six to four on it
being a tiger. If cornered or
disturbed when mating, the
tiger shows fight readily. Like
its near relative, the cobra of
India, it distends its neck
laterally until the dark skin
shows beneath the scales,
raises itself on its propeller
and goes full speed for the
foe. The latter’s best plan then is to retire as
suddenly as he knows how, unless he is armed with
a handy stick with which he can get a clean hori-
zontal swipe at the advancing serpent. A stick is
better than a gun and infinitely better than a hobble-
chain or a stirrup-iron or an axe, or even a razor.
“Dook” : I can back up “Wandi’s” state-
ment (B. 28/11 /’ 18) about fig-trees growing in the
forks of other trees. In a public reserve in Jam-
beroo (N.S.W.) there’s a fig which started some
100 feet up, and has completely strangled its host,
rooting all round the original tree and forming a
new trunk. It is imposible to say what the original
tree was, for it has almost completely disappeared,
leaving the fig quite hollow for some 100 feet or so
up. The latter is Oft. through at the base and
looking up from the inside of the trunk faint traoes
of the old timber can be seen.
“G.A.” : Something new in real Australian
industry has been brought to Adelaide by Mathew
Kropinyerie, the educated three-quarter abo. who
takes a great interest in Binghi’S history and lan-
guage. (Mathew looks a full-blooded abo. himself,
but his mother was a half-caste. His father was
“the abo. evangelist.’’) Recently he returned from
the S.A. West Coast and brought with him examples
of native skill thereabouts in textile making—two
tam-o’-shanter caps of wombat hair, and the imple-
ments used in their manufacture. The spinning-
wheel consists of a saltbush stick about a quarter of
an inch thick and two feet in length, with two shorter
pieces pierced through and tied in the form of a
cross and fixed near one end of the main stem and at
right angles to it. The gins keep this simple piece
of mechanism in motion by rubbing the main stick
between the hand and knee, while with the other
hand they twist the wombnt hair and wind it upon
the cross pieces. The result is a tough woolly twine
which is made up by means of a crochet hook fash-
ioned from the bone of a ’roo.
* * * #
“E.S.S.”: An instance of wild waterfowl
being tamed in their native state was supplied by
a flock of pelicans at Tliylungra, West Queensland.
The homestead stands on the bank of a big lagoon,
and the pelicans, about 80 of them, had been quiet-
ened by constant feeding from the kitchen. The
bank of the lagoon drops sheer to the water a few
feet from the back door, and the birds came there
regularly at meal-times to feed on the scraps thrown
out from the kitchen. Though never very wild
when not interfered with, the pelican is usually a
lover of quiet places. From the cook’s point of
view it as valueless as the shag, but with its
enormous yellow bill and huge black and white
body it is the most conspicuous and interesting fea-
ture in the waterscape.
* » • *
“Mopoke”: “Lantana’s” “snake” with
“fins” (B. 5/12/’18) is not a rare freak. I have heard
of it on one or two occasions and had one bottled
for a considerable time. Whenever arguments arose
about snakes with legs I bided my time and at the
right moment produced the specimen. It generally
meant drinks all round at somebody else’s expense.
I dug my crawler out of the ground one winter, and
shortly after contact with the spirits he shed his
outer garment, and it was then that the fin-legs
became very noticeable. They were scarcely visible
before.
(Continued on page 24.)
THE WATER.
[FOB THE BULLETIN.]
When Allenby’s army smashed the Turk,
Who was the bloke who did the work?
The Aussie knows, and he’ll tell you straight
That most of the job was done by his mate,
The wonderful Aussie waler.
It was umpty-nine in the shade each day,
And the wells were spoiled in the Turkish way ;
But with nothing to eat and plenty to do
The heart of the waler carried him through,
The wonderful, wonderful waler!
For ten long weeks through the desert hot
He plugged along, and all that he got
Was a drink—-or not a drink—a day.
But did the stamina once give way
Of the wonderful Aussie waler?
Was he the one to desert his mate?
Just watch him coming up the straight,
With twenty stone of harness and man!
No wonder the Turk was an also-ran
With the wonderful, wonderful waler!
When drink was not and feeds were few,
There still was his harness that he could chew;
With a nibble or two at another’s mane
He plucked up heart to march again,
The wonderful Aussie waler!
And when everything eatable seemed to fail,
A hair or two from a neighbor’s tail
Made a pleasant meal; and there’s no doubt
They took it turn and turn about,
The wonderful, wonderful waler!
A white Australian through and through,
There’s a good time coming, old horse, for you.
There’s a paddock green, with grass to your knees,
And there you shall roll at your lordly ease,
My wonderful Aussie waler!
With a gallop or two to keep you fit —
And won’t it bring back the thrill of it!
There’s no more hardship and little work
For the cobber who broke the heathen Turk,
My wonderful, wonderful waler!
But what is this that the orders tell?
This mate of mine they’re going to sell!
To the old home paddock you’ll never come back;
They are selling you to a dirty black,
My wonderful Aussie waler!.
The times together that we’ve been through,
When all that I had in the world was you!
Out there! Out there, in a world of men
You were more than wife or sweetheart then,
My wonderful, wonderful waler!
There was trust and mateship in your eyes.
A horse has no soul! All lies, all lies!
And more than a kiss or soft lips that speak
Was your nuzzling nose against my cheek,
You wonderful Aussie waler!
A life-long slavery is your fate ?
Not while a mate can still shoot straight!
Your eyes....l need a steady hand....
Good bye, old chap....you understand,
You wonderful, wonderful waler!
N.S.W.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.


A Ideal Country Fiction Library
RUUYfIAYE^
BUCCANEER
No better novels can be secured by
the reader of fiction Outback than
the “Bookstall” Series.
The “Bookstall” Series represents
the work of the Commonwealth’s
best authors, who have written speci-
ally for Australian readers.
CALLING VOitt
EFChnstie
One Hundred Australian Shilling Novels
Is. each—All One Price —Posted Is. Id.
From all Bookstalls and Booksellers. Over 2,000,000 copies already sold.
Here are a few favorites: —
“BASE BRANDS.”
By H. M. SOMER.
“THE CALLING VOICE.”
By E. F. CHRISTIE.
“A REBEL OF THE BUSH.”
By DON DELANEY.
“SILVER STAR.”
By RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
“THE BELLE OF THE BUSH.”
By GEORGE DARRELL.
“THE GOLDEN KANGAROO.”
By AMBROSE PRATT.
“ROCKY SECTION.”
By SYDNEY PARTRIGE.
“THE HEART OF THE BUSH.”
By BRODA REYNOLDS.
SAME PRICE, //- each.
STEELE RUDD’S
FAMOUS SELECTION STORIES.
ROBERT KALESKI’S
“AUSTRALIAN BARKERS and BITERS,”
A great book devoted to the Australian dog.
“ABORIGINALITIES,”
Selections from The Bulletin’s famous “Abo.” pages.
A SPLENDID NEW NOVEL OF THE BUSH. ‘
“ DAWN ASPER,” by Broda Reynolds.
Write to the Publishers for a Complete Catalogue of
One Hundred Australian Shilling Novels
PUBLISHED BY
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL GO. LTD.,
476 George Street, Sydney.
Chocolates
Just
toVo/u
»r
w
M
:
i
In
IP3
B
I
Mailed to any address
in Australia on the same
day they are made.
Direct from the Factory.
Packed only in red
boxes.
Prices: 3/-, 5/-, 6/6,
10/6, 15/-, 25/-
162 Pitt St.
SYPNE.Y
V« ■
SUMMER UNDERWEAR
White Ceilnet.
White Ceilnet Cotton Underwear is at once the healthiest
and most comfortable of cool underclothing.
It is porous and absorbent, throwing off perspiration ; in
that way giving a delightful feeling of freshness entirely re-
moved from anything close or clammy.
Ceilnet washes splendidly, is unshrinkable and very
durable.
Note the small diagram, giving an idea of the “open mesh”
character of the fabric.
We confidently recommend Ceilnet as a sure solution of
the Underwear question for our Australian climate.
CELLNET COTTON
UNDERWEAR.
SINGLETS (half sleeves)
DRAWERS (knee length)
Loose fitting, Cool and Absorbent.
Sizes —32 to 42 chest or waist.
ALL ONE PRICE.
6/6
each.
“TUSSACOOL” SHI RTS.
Some “Tussacool” Shirts to
wear during the warm weather would
indeed be a grand idea.
“Tussacool” Shirtins: is de-
lightfully comfortable, carrying with
it the appearance of genuine Tussore
Silk; but it wears much better, and
retains its Color and Silk Lustre after
many washings.
“Tussacool” Shirts are made with
Gauntlet Cuffs and Soft Double Collars
to match. They are fitted with Split
Sleeves (to give the correct set to
the cuffs), Sleeve Lifts (to give the “just
right” length), and Reinforced Inlay
Fronts (to double the
life of the shirt).
Each Shirt is sent
complete, with collar to
match.
1116
(3 for 33/-)
rv
ORDER BY POST. WE PAY CARRIAGE.
Leviathan
Cor. Swanston & Bourke Streets, MELBOURNE
BRITISH-MADE
10-inch
DOUBLE-
SIDED
2/6
EACH
(N.Z. 3/-)
m
0
10-inch
DOUBLE-
SIDED
2/6
EACH
(N.Z. 3/-)
Some Fine British “Regal” Records at 2/6 each.
ALL DOUBLETS! DED.
7020
f For All Eternity
l Till Death ,
Miss Julie Dolaro, soprano.
Miss Julie Dolaro, soprano.
-w' . *ll JJ. J
67X8
1 Last Might Was the End of the World Irving Gillette, tenor.
I I’m On My Way to Mandalay (duet) Campbell & Gillette.
You Planted a Rose Wm. Thomas & Quartette.
In the Heart of the City Irving Gillette, tenor.
6940
J Somewhere a Voice is Calling Robert Adams,
\ Sleep and the Hoses Robert Adams,
tenor.
tenor.
6809
\ The Lads in .Navy Blue
1 We Didn’t Want to Fight
Harrison Latimer, baritone.
. Stanley Kirkby, baritone.
5 Your King and Country Want You Stanley Kirkby, baritone.
i Fall In ! Stanley Kirkby, baritone.
6817
j Are We Downhearted? —No! Harrison Latimer, baritone.
(Bravo! Territorials Harrison Latimer, baritone.
7268
( The Story the Angelus Told Stanley Ivlrk
| Swinging High, Swinging Low Stanley Kir]
by, baritone,
kby, baritone.
6847
(I Want to Go to Michigan ...F, W. Ramsey, baritone.
) Beautiful Baby Doll F. W. Ramsey, baritone.
{Patriotic Patrick Muldoon
Sing a Song about a Sailor
Stanley Kirkby. baritone.
F. W. Ramsey, baritone.
7217
Private Michael Cassidy, Part 1 Jack Norwortli,
Private Michael Cassidy, Part 2 Jack Norworth,
comedian.
comedian.
} AVhat You Never Had F. W. Ilarasey,
} You Great Big Wonderful Baby F. W. Ramsey,
baritone.
baritone.
7269
\ The Modest Curate Walter Walters, comedian.
1 Wondering Willie Walter Walters, comedian.
6939
f In the Evening,, by the Moonlight Miss
( My Eittle Alabama Coon Irving
Gertie Gitana.
Gillette, tenor.
7200
j Jerry Jinks— Scallywag, Part 1 Descriptive.
I Jerry Jinks—Scallywag, Part 2 Descriptive.
6874
f Departure of Australian Troops for Front Descriptive.
1 Arrival of Australian Troops in Egypt Descriptive.
6883
6920
Regal Orchestra
Regal Orchestra
S Rosy Rapture—Selections, Part 1
) Rosy Rapture—Selections, Part 2
J To Arms March King’s Military Band.
} Johnny O’Morgan March ... . „ King’s Military Band.
6885
7182
7224'
—l9lB Pantomime Hits. Parts 1 and 2 Silver Stars Band.
Introducing:—Part I—“ Won’t1 —“Won’t You Tell Me the Lady’s Name?” “A Little
Bit of Heaven.” “My Bird of Paradise,” “Night-time in Dixieland.”
Part 2 —“ You Great Big Wonderful Baby,” “Sprinkle Me with Kisses,”
“Good-bye, Virginia,” “Dancing ’Neath the Irish Moon.”
-1916 Pantomime Hits, Tarts 3 and 4 Band of H.M. Scots Guards.
Introducing:—Part 3 —“ Mr. Bottomley-.Tolm Bull,” “There’s a Light That’s
Burning in the Window,” “Cassidy,” “Oh, Mr. Rubinstein.” Part 4
“Dear Old Saturday Night,” “Won’t You Come and Play with Me?”
“Remember Where You Come From,” “Somebody Knows, Somebody
Cares.”
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR “REGAL” RECORDS—
SYDNEY, N.S.W. —Grafonola, Ltd., DakingHouse, Eawson Place. '
MELBOURNE, VIC., and TASMANIA.—Messrs. Hugo Wertheim Pty.,
Ltd., 173 William Street, Melbourne.
BRISBANE, Q. —King and King, Ltd.. Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A. —Cornell, Ltd., 132 Pirie Street.
PERTH, W.A.—H. R. Pirth, Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. —Arthur H. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street.
WEEDING TON, N.Z. —Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.—Webley Sons & Gofton, Ltd., 243 High Street.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.—Webley Sons & Gofton, Ltd.
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.


Martin’s Pills are sold by all chemists and
stores. Ladies recommend them. Be sore
you get the genuine with the signature:
Martin, Chemist, Southampton. — Advt.
First in Australia
<rt
22253
9
SSS
Meggitt Limited’s Linseed Oil
—BOILED and RAW
Has Established Itself as the Standard of Quality.”
Abchitecture, the official organ of the Institute of Architects, October 21, 1918, says: “There is no
better Linseed Oil in the world than that produced at Parramatta.”
CATALOGUE 2 MAILED FREE.
Full particulars from Agents: Messrs. R. g. Exton & Co., Brisbane; Messrs. Harrisons, Ramsay Ltd.
Melbourne; Messrs. Clarkson Ltd., Adelaide; Messrs. W. Adams & Co., Perth; Messrs. F. W. Heritage & Co.,
Hobart and Launceston; or
Meggitt Limited,
(The Pioneer Linseed Oil and Linseed Oil
Meal Manufacturers of Australia),
26 King St., Sydney.
Works:
Parramatta.
I)NSEE°«tM«I
n
MttGITT
PARRAMATTA
The Boy on the Bag
guarantees quality.
“OUR REPRESENTATIVE.”
CALLER: “Is the manager in?”
YOUNG LADY : “He’s on active service.”
CALLER: “What about the acting-manager, then?”
YOUNG LADY: “He’s on holiday.”
CALLER: “Well, the accountant?”
YOUNG LADY: “He’s inspecting the country branch.”
CALLER: “What’s become of the business?”
YOUNG LADY (with dignity) : “I am here.”
“Nitro”: The snake with fins recorded
by “Lantana” (B. 5/12/’18) is right. I met this
queer exhibit eight summers ago at Tweed Heads
(N.S.W.). He was within 6ft. of my tent, making
for the doorway when I finished him. Didn’t know
he possessed the fins, or whatever they may be, until
I audited the corpse. It started many snake yarns
when exhibited among the campers, but nobody could
name the specimen. He was about 2ft. long and
reddish brown in color —no spots.
* * * #
“Yarrum”: Worst night I ever spent was
up a leaning tree, in the moonlight, with a very
wild cow pawing madly at my shadow. Between
paws the mad thing gazed up at me murderously
with fiery eyes. It made me feel sick, for I’d been
treed a long time and was only about eight feet
from grass. After seven hours of it the cow lunatic
knocked off to give sustenance to her day-old calf
a couple of chains away. Then I dropped and tried
to run, but couldn’t. The beast started in pursuit;
but she was as exhausted as I was and fell on her
head. After a hit I crawled to the nearest fence —-
luckily a strong one —and dragged myself under the
bottom rail, where I lay exhausted and slept. When
I awoke the relentless beast was breathing hard on
my face.. I can smell the clover yet.
* * * *
“Gouger”: The day had been fearfully
hot. The old hatter, sighing heavily as he lifted
the billy from the fire, was vaguely puzzled. It
did not seem tea-time, somehow, yet the sun was
' surely failing in its light. The hatter (he told
me the yarn himself) glanced at the tangle of
tropical scrub a hundred yards in front of the hut.
Ten minutes before a few glaring sunrays had
struck down through the dense foliage. Now it was
one mass of shadow. Not a.leaf moved; not one of
the scrub birds sang. Even on the open forest
country at the back of the hut was a deathly still-
ness. “Damn me if I don’t think we’re goin’ to
have a cyclone, an’ a wopper, too. You’d better
coil up in your holler log ter-night, Bluey. . No
good campin’ in ther fireplace. Yer’ll catch yer
death er cold.” The old man was speaking to the
big fat yellow-striped gohanna that steadily watched
his friend for any bits of corned beef he might
throw away. The hatter finished his tea, stood in
the doorway of the hut and looked towards the
west. There was no sun visible now, but a dense
veil of cloud was rapidly approaching. “Best get
ter bunk,"” he mumbled to the lonely watcher. “This
is goin’ to be a real snorter.” With all his clothes
on, he climbed on to the sapling bunk, pulled the
bag blanket over him, and lay still. The gohanna,
seeing nothing more doing, waddled off to his hol-
low log. The little brown fly-catching lizard ran
swiftly across the floor of the now darkened hut, and
coiled up in his home under the old man’s bunk.
Not a sound. Soon, from far away across the moun-
tain tops, came a low hum. It increased rapidly
to a muffled roar, the heated air suddenly grew cool,
and then, as the furious wind struck the scrub,
there was a rending, crashing roar of stricken trees.
The wind leaped from the scrub’s edge and the frail
bark but left its moorings. A hundred yards fur-
ther on it met a giant granite boulder against which
it was held by the force of the screaming wind.
Then came the deluge of rain. Frightened and
breathless the hatter scrambled out and made his
way across the flattened grass until he found the
charred mouth of a very large hollow log. Putting
his head and shoulders into the opening the old
man wormed his way until the narrowing tunnel
told him he could go no further. A few feet in-
ward two spots of light glittered; it was the
gohanna, looking towards the human as still and
silent- as ■ the Sphinx. “I’ve come to camp with
you fer th’ night, Bluey!” shouted the old man.
“Th’ old humpy’s blown ter Hell an’ I reckon
there’s no more uv the world left.”
“Nor’-West”: Please whisper to “Simon
II.” (B. 21/11/’18) that there is only one species
of cod inhabiting the western rivers of NY S. Wales,
and that is the so-called Murray cod, which is
•really a perch. The “rock cod” is a bushman’s
myth. The short thick fish caught by “Simon” was
evidently a ma-fish. I have fished in the Severn, the
Gwydir, Mole, Sovereign (or Dumaresq), Namoi and
Condamine, and the cod in all these rivers are iden-
tical except for trifling differences in' conformation
and markings, due to environment. Cod of any
size usually go in pairs. Two fish I caught one
night, weighing over 10 pounds each, had; divided a
rabbit between them. Of a pair one is always
short and thick, and in the spawning season will
be found full of roe. The longer, handsome, well-
proportioned fish is dad. Color and markings are not
of importance, as the cod, like the golden perch and
bream, is able to take on color to suit the state of
the water. When the rivers are low the cod is very
dark and distinctly spotted with dark sea-green,
being difficult to see from above. The camouflage is
altered when a fresh occurs and the fish takes on a
yellowish color. The “dew-fish” referred to is evi-
dently the fresh-water cat-fish, commonly called by
western anglers “jew-fish.” The “yellow-belly” is
the golden perch, the finest edible fresh-water fish
that swims. It is difficult to account for the dis-
parity of the different species of fish in the Severn
and Macintyre. So far as I know perch or cat-fish
are not to be caught in the Severn, although it is
alleged that a few of the latter can be caught at
Strathbogies, dear Emmaville.
* * * *
“D.F.”: Tasmanian black brother, now
extinct, seems to have had a fancy for dying on re-
mote and almost inaccessible islands. The Hobart
Museum has a skull, apparently very old, from
Maatsuyker Inland, a heap of rocks and scrub off
the stormy south coast of the Speck. This confirms
the opinion of Flinders and Bass that it was visited
by natives, who had to cross three miles of wild
sea to reach it. Tasman Island, off Cape Pillar,
consists mainly of cliffs and rises to nearly 1000
feet; yet it also has yielded a skeleton. What Binghi
wanted and how he got there it is hard to guess.
* * * *
“Snell”: “After all, cows is very human,”
said Old wisely; “very human cows is. There’s
nothin’ in the way of ridic-lousness a human woman
has got what a cow hasn’t got more or less. Cows
is. all sorts, same ez women. There’s vain cows, ’n’
haughty cows, ’u’ plain, homely cows, excitable
cows what’s alwuz a-friskin’ their heels all over the
lan’scape, ’n’ sober, self-possessed cows that you
couldn’t shake up with a ’underd-ton gun. Cushin’s
cow Selina was p’raps the most conceited cow—for
a cow—what I ever met. She wasn’t bad lookin’ ez
cows go, bein’ a strawb’ry blonde, with neat horns,
’n' rather fine eyes, but the way that cow fancied
herself wasn’t outdone fer wicked vanity be any
young lady in the church. She was alwiz lickin’
herself, ’n’ polishin’ up her complexion over some
pool in Pill Creek, ’n’ a-twistin’ of herself most
awkward to get a better view of her figger, ’n’ thin
she’d sort of lead herself round ’n’ up ’n’ down afore
the other cows, fillin’ ’em with envy, she thought.
She was skittish, too, Cushin’s Selina was. The way
that cow ’ud kick up her heels ’n’ sorter prance
round made you think of a giddy old maid bein’
tickled surreptitious. Well, one mornin’ Cushin’s
Selina went missin’. She’d once won first prize fer
her size ’n’ kind et the Stawell Show, which maybe
accounts fer the conceit ’n’ pride of her, seein’ she
was no mortal good for enythin’ ever after, but
Cushin’ set store by . her, ’n’ went huntin’ her all
up ’n’ down the countryside; but nobody hadn’t
seen, her, so Cushin put up a notice offerin’ a reward
of two quid for Selina, ’n’ next day one of the
young Colters comes to pushin, ’n’ claims to have
found Selina. He takes Cushin over to the yard
of the old, deserted house Andrews used to live in,
’n' there in the tumble-down shed was Selina more’n
arf dead from hunger ’n’ thirst, but perfectly ’appy.
It seems that Andrews had left a hunk of ole broken
mirror in that outhouse, leaned agin the wall, ’n’
Selina in her travels had found it ’n’ there she was,
gazin’ at herself in the glass, dyin’ of starvation, but
perfectly satisfied. To get her ’ome Cushin had to
carry the mirror in front of her, ’n’ to keep her
’ome he was compelled to fix it on a stump in his
’cme paddock, V there Selina would stand by the
hour, lickin’, polishin’, ’n’ tittivatin’ herself, V
admirin’ of her fine eyes. You know the old savin’,
‘Pride goeth afore a bust up’ ? One evenin’ Selina was
.found lyin’ in front of her mirror dead ’n’ stone cold.
It was seen at once that some kids had got to her
with a pot of brandin’ mixture, ’n’ had messed her
all over with it. The vet. said it was the first time
in all his experience he’d known a cow to die of a
bioken heart.”
* * * #
“Nitram”: Haven’t noticed any Abo.-scribe
mention how fish are submarined in the Macintyre
and Severn rivers on the Bananaland —N. S. Wales
border. Procure as many sealed empty syrup-tins as
possible, attach a short length of line and hook
by a couple of half hitches around the middle, bait
and throw into a waterhole where it will float with
current or breeze. When the fish bite they are
doomed to be hooked, as the empty tins are surer
than the most expert angler and when caught they
always make for the side of the river where it is
an easy matter to capture your submarine with fish
attached. Have caught 101 b. cod with small 21b. sub.
Have also left submarines in water-hole all night
apd had as many as nine fish with 10 tins. Anyone
going fishing up in those parts without a supply of
convenient tins is looked on as being of weak intel-
lect.
* * * *
“Melos”: We've hit it right sometimes
with our nird aliases. “Farmer’s friend” fits the
straw-necked ibis; and “flute-bird” is good for the
black-backed magpie. So are “coachwhip” (golden-
breasted whistler), “squeaker” (noisy mina), “post-
sitter” (brown lly-catnher), “willie wagtail” (restless
flycatcher), “spinethil” (Australian bee-eater), “cock-
tail” (superb warbler), “alarm-bird” (spurwinged
plover), and “cobbler’s awl” (spinebill). “Curra-
wang” (picd-bell magpie) expresses as nearly as
possible the bird’s call. “Woodpecker” (tree-creeper)
is only technically incorrect. We have no true
woodpecker. Incidentally this and the vulture are
th<= only widely distributed families unrepresented in
Australia.
* * * *
“D.F.”: The word “lubra,” or “luherer,”
was used by the Tasmanian aborigines, if the evidence
of G. A. Robinson, the “black protector,” is correct.
In his diary for May 18, 1829, he describes a native
on Bruni Island as using the word “luberer” for his
wife. On the other hand, if Dove, who lived with the
natives on Flinders Island at a later date, is right,
“lubra” is a borrowed word, and had displaced the
original term “lurga” ini the language of the eastern
and southern tribes. Milligan describes these tribes
as using quite different, words for woman—lowalla,
lowanna and nienate. i
HER DEEP-LAID PLOT.
“Fair cow to buck, isn’t she?”
“Gall that bucking! Why, she’s tryin to rock him to sleey so’s he'll fall off.”


-
'
. - M
mm
JL'4
t *
w am.
■
Mfr
-
,
*■
OV**- -^gP
K
gRVI£S
fet- '""v
<* *i
bests
the
gi vj E
.
'■
' *■ *■
*&&&$& •y' • ~ "'*&
‘
. ■
'iunng-gai Chase , llawkesbwry River, TJ'S.'U
DO YOU GET THE BEST
OUT OF MOTOMNG=?
Driving about crowded thoroughfares holds little pleasure or attraction for
the average motorist The motor car is then only a vehicle of utility. It’s
out in the open country that one realises the advantages that the motor
bestows. Health and pleasure then go hand in hand, and the natural
beauties of this country are brought within easy reach. With congenial
company, and a reliable car shod with dependable Australian-made
Dunlop
you have at hand an ideal opportunity of really getting the best out of
touring. There’s Health and Enjoyment in it—and it awaits YOU.
Whether the road be good or bad, you can with confidence
select Grooved or Railroad " Dunlops” for touring They give
wonderful service with economy. Obtainable all garages.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
ALL STATES
AND N.Z.


r
There is Nothing Better than
1
HEARN E’S
Bronchitis Cure
For COUGHS, COLDS on the CHEST,
CROUP and WEAK LUNGS
4!///
&
7^
'W'-*
nsa
/
A/I
11
m
c KIWCUEV- > niTHr
This Medicine can be given with PERFECT
SAFETY and the UTMOST CONFIDENCE
to the YOUNGEST CHILD, as it does NOT
contain, and has NEVER contained any poison
or harmful drugs. It is very pleasant to take,
and children take it readily—even CLAMOR
for it. HEARNE'S BRONCHITIS CURE
is prepared by our MR. W. G. HEARNE
who is a REGISTERED CHEMIST
with nearly forty years' experience.
The REMEDY with the
REPUTATION
* If not obtainable locally
send direct to
W. G. Hearne & Co.
Ltd.
GEELONG. VICTORIA.
Sydney* N.S.W.
Wellington. N.2L
Always ask for
“HEARNE’S”
person, and Aga Khan takes more than
pains; he almost takes agony. He and ins
kind are eminently respectable, like the men
who wrote the New Testament, and the re-
semblance becomes closer the more it is
studied. The New Testament men were
accustomed, like the Indian, to foreign domi-
nation. They had the cosmopolitan outlook
of the cultured Indian. Like him they
walked barefoot to avoid waking Caesar. In
a. time of bitter oppression (which somewhat
spoils the resemblance because the Indian
isn’t oppressed) they managed to write a
book without speaking unkindly of one
Roman, not even of Pilate, the crucifier;
though they cast or hinted certain reflections
against the Pharisees who were hard Coven-
anting patriots; and the Ilerods, w’ho were
Idumeans; and Barabbas, who was, local
raw material; and Judas, Ananias, Sapphira
and similar obscure trash. Aga Khan has
travelled widely and gathered up a mass of
interesting and valuable information. Armed
with this ammunition, he gives the impres-
sion that he would like to shoot, but is too
polite. Very courteously he suggests that
there are many ways in which the manage-
ment of India could be improved, and he
haves an impression that his ideas are good.
He indicates tilings that should be done, but
he uses not one expression that a curate
could object to about those who leave them
undone. 11.11. the Aga Khan should have
known Alfred Deakin in that polite gentle-
man’s best days, though he might have re-
garded the Affable one as too violent. (Pub-
lished by Philip Lee Warner, London.)
Keeling Letters
This is a tome of middle-sized beer, 330
pages strong. It is produced by a small
corporation of admirers, including his family
and H. G. Wells at his worst. The reason
why it isn’t a tome of small beer is that the
writer of the letters had enough inherited
money to travel —not in the large Australian
or United States way, but at least as far as
Italy—and beer grows bigger by removal.
The letters are fairly good as letters, but
thousands of ill-paid newspaper men write
as good stuff every day. Keeling was a
socialist and reformer of the condescending
and dress-suit variety. Also his death proves
conclusively that prigs are not bullet proof.
Pictorially he is shown in three attitudes:
(1) as a barefaced youth of 20 with an up-
ward look in his eyes, his chin resting on
his hand and his forefinger pointed at his
ear; (2) as a stagey and bearded person of
22 with dark, disordered hair, a cafefully-
cultivated yearn in his eyes, and an aspect
of suppressed verse; (3) as the most beauti-
fully barbered and shampooed soldier imagin-
able. His story reveals that his sense of
fairness and justice and his large cosmopoli-
tan outlook and his superiority to the local
clamor of the herd made him hope the Huns
would carry everything before them —on
land anyhow. Up to the beginning of the
war at all events he regarded the French as
a menace to Europe, a disturbing element
and a race of poor fighting capacity. He
considered Russia the sole cause of the war;
regarded the execution of Nurse Cavell,
despite the method of her trial, as a justifi-
able act; and fell into profane language at
the infamy of any trade boycott against
Germany. Also he grew pale with rage at
the people who dismissed their Hun ser-
vants in' England. Wells, in his preface,
insists on Keeling’s originality. So do two
of his schoolmasters, one of whom relates a
pointless anecdote about how he got out of
a window, and another about how he refused
to be grateful to the nurses who attended
him in an illness, saying with the philosophy
of Dickens’s Smallweed family: “Well,
they’re paid for it.” In reality he seems a
father stereotyped kind of local bounder, and
he deserves a little notice because he was so
true to pattern. He was the perfect sample,
like the gentleman in the barber’s window or
the milliner’s lady figure with the new corset
on. (Geo. Allen and Unwin, London.)
A Satchel of Books
Innocent Amusements, by Barry Pain (T. Werner
Laurie). Light as the themes are, there is always
a hint of humor, a twist in the tail or a bit of
shrewd observation to make these stories worth
while.
Destruction, by Elinor Glyn (Duckworth and Co.).
This war booklet is written in short, explosive barks
and paints slightly but forcefully a series of pic-
tures in keeping with the title.
Robin of the Round House, by Isabel Maud
Peacocke (Ward, Lock!. A Maoriiand yarn,
pleasantly told, of two business girls who, on com-
ing into a legacy, set up as farmers. The Round
House is a place built by an ancient mariner in the
style of a ship. Robin strolls into the yarn from
an orphanage and the garden blossoms. Better
and more readable work than most fiction of its
class.
The Keys of Heaven, by Marjorie Weatherly (Aus-
tralian Authors’ Agency, Melbourne). The daughter
of an earl is sold as a slave in the open markets of
New Orleans. There is a preface to explain that
such things could occur, and a couple of hundred
pages to tell how after it happened everything came
light. It doesn’t seem to matter much after this
lapse of time; but the yarn goes along with some
show of probability.
’Twixt Eagle and Dove, by E. V. Lucas (Methuen).
Short essays which for the most part run thin.
There is no depth of thought, little skill in construc-
tion and a total lack of brilliancy; but the book
is very harmless and eminently suited for the Sun-
day reading of not-too-devout maiden aunts.
At Petunia, sketches by S. Elizabeth Jackson (G.
Hassell and Son, Adelaide). Excellently written
little stories of life in an Australian townlet. The
small work is full of quiet humor and good observa-
tion. Nothing much happens; but the 80 pages
glide pleasantly along and leave the impression that
the authoress is capable of much bigger things.
Personalities, by Paul Selver (George Allen and
Unwin). A book of verse, mostly with a topical
flavor. Much of the work is excellently done ; and
even where the movement is rather heavy there are
flashes that redeem it. Sample (from “Ten Epi-
grams”) : <
This ancient saw on which I dwell
Must make our artists vain,
For they conceal their art so well
It can’t be found again.
Many pages are about as good as that.
Business, Robbery, etc.
Of the common things of every-minute use
none have been so hard to get in England as
matches. “No matches” has been a sign up
on half the tobacconists’ windows of London ;
and when you have seen an expectant queue
of men you have known that the shop-
keeper has achieved a supply somehow. Two
men out of three and nine Yankee soldiers
out of 10 have carried flint-spark lighters
with them; but the best don’t satisfy the
pipe-smoker and the worst produce only
curses. Nobody worth mentioning has struck
a match without looking round first to see
whether he couldn’t borrow a light; and
perfect strangers have pushed their faces
into yours and lit their fags at your stump.
* * * *
“F.C.”: Something has gone wrong with
the blessed law of supply and demand again;
at least, with the retail part of it, so to,
speak. I notice that Minister Oman has
been advising Vic. meat-producers—sheep-
growers—to hold their jumbucks back for a
few weeks, as at the last few markets in
December they have been overdoing the
supply and getting at least Bs. per head
from the exporter less than he could well
afford to pay under the Imperial meat con-
tract. That is “supply and demand” in
correct form, all right; but I also notice
that on December 14 the meat price-fixing
regulation was cancelled or abolished, where-
upon the local retail prices of mutton, which
were already higher than the Imperial con-
tract rates, unaccountably jumped up Id.
and id. per lb., notwithstanding that mut-
tons were cheaper than they had been these
last two years. I am a methodical, orderly
individual, and there is too much unaccount-
ableness about the meat business to suit me.
• • * *
“R.S.”: The nerve of the professional
debt-collecting firms is colossal. A friend
of mine got a request for payment of the
balance of an account within seven days.
The amount was sent by P. 0.0. to the
creditor (not the debt-collecting robber). A
day or two later there came a note from the
latter saying that. 15s. 6d. expenses had been
incurred, on receipt of which the summons
would be withdrawn. My friend smiled, but
the summons was issued all right 14 days
after the account had been paid. The mad-
dened recipient handed the documents to a
solicitor, and the client of the dun had to
part out more than his original full account
was worth.
* * * *
“Bill D.’s” tale of sin
Bob Downs had been working on Gaffer’s Hill
for a year when one evening after he had come off
day shift he announced his intention of making a
move, and went round the camps to bid the fellows
good-bye. Now, on Gaffer’s Hill we paid once a
month, and as the locality wasn’t the safest in the
world, being nine miles from anywhere, we never
kept money to pay odd amounts between pay-days.
If a man wanted to leave suddenly he gave some
friend on the mine an order to collect his wages,
in exchange for which the friend gave him the cash
in advance. Bob left on a Wednesday night, two
days before pay-day, with 24 shifts to his credit.
The pay-clerk took it as a matter of course, there-
fore, when the first man who lined up for his pay—
it happened to be “Uncle” Wilson —presented a piece
of piper, which read, “Please pay U. Wilson amount
due to me 24 shifts at 14s. = £l6 16s. R. Downs.”
But when lanky, loose-kneed Mulga Ralph, who was
the second man to line up, presented a replica, he
said shortly, “Here, wot the ’ell yer givin’ us! I
jest paid that to Uncle Wilson.”
Ralph shoved the paper into his pocket and strode
out, murder in his heart. “My Gawd,” he was say-
ing, “if ever I git my hands on the blarsted swine”
—when he noticed that little Micky, the next man,
was carrying a piece of paper in his hand as he
entered. Ralph waited, and presently out came
Micky, waving the paper, his face crimson with
rage, wild Australian words bubbling from his lips.
By this time the main body of men were rolling up
to the pay-office, and the comedy commenced in
earnest. As each one came out, his face black with
hate, or pale at the thought of £l6 16s. worth of
beer lost, he was cheered till the faint echoes crept
back from the low cliffs on the other side of the
salt lake. There were a few exceptions, men who had
been “short,” or who shared a camp with someone
else, in which latter case Bob could only “touch”
one of the partners; but nearly every man on the
show had suffered.
When the last man was paid, and the last cheer
had died away, a puff of dust showed out on the salt
plain, and in a few moments two carts were visible.
As they came closer they proved to be the two store-
keepers from the township. “Funny,” said one; “they
don’t usually come out till the Saturday.” As they
pulled up in front of the office Ralph said to the first,
“Hello, Mr. Gunn, day earlier than usual this time!”
“Yes,” was the reply. “Bob Downs wanted to get
away to Perth in a hurry, so I took an order on his
tvages for the bill, and gave him the change.”
The other storekeeper’s face was a picture. He
scented something of the situation, sprang from his
cart in such a hurry that he landed in a heap, pulled
himself together, and bolted for the office door, closely
pursued by his rival Gunn and the profane, riotoul
laughter of Gaffer’s Creek.
* * *
A new industry is interesting Melbourne.
It consists of converting stringy-bark in its
natural state into a strong and durable floor-
covering. The idea was originated by Mrs.
Frank Walker, of Ringwood, who began by
plaiting the shredded outside bark and
fashioning these plaits into decorative baskets.
Realising that stringy-bark possesses an un-
common amount of durability and strength,
Mrs. Walker conceived the notion of making
the plaited bark into floor-mats. From these
small beginnings apparently there is a great
future for a material which up to now has
been regarded' as a waste product. Big quan-
tities of raw material are available, and all
that is wanted is suitable machinery. At
preseht the industry is a handicraft which
though effective is costly. Experts think
that with efficient machinery floor-coverings
better than Japanese can be turned out
at a small cost. The industry would employ
hundreds of returned soldiers. If local pro-
duction could not compete with the Jap in
price perhaps someone might think of a Pro-
tective tariff.
* * * *
“Gleniris” ; For years the Victorian bush-
man’s building rule in mountain-asli dis-
tricts has been: “Ash above-ground and red-
gum below.” Red-gum is alleged by Melb.
University tests to be five times as valuable
as the more commonly used jarrah; and
mountain-ash is a proved and sterling hard-
wood, suitable for many industrial purposes.
Owing to the expensiveness of imported
materials, ash is now being used as a substi-
tute for pine in case-making and for oak in
casks, and it has also been “discovered” as
a sound roofing. Plenty of country dwell-
ings have of late years been made almost
entirely of ash, roofs included. The most
up-to-date roofing of the kind consists of Gin.
boards, laid lengthwise along the roofs and
“checked” underneath to take the top edge
of the board below. For fire-proofing the
standard application for woods is silicate of
soda, so it would probably be the correct
thing for ash, too. Early application for a
fire-insurance policy is also advisable.
* * * *
“Spec”: Sad news has come to Adelaide
from one of the leading distillers in Scot-
land regarding the whisky market., Aus-
tralia appears to take a wrong view of the
general trade position as affecting Scotch
and Irish whisky, and concludes that, to-
gether with most other commodities, after
the war the spirit will gradually fall in
price; but this is not so. The principal fac-
tor against a decrease in price is the three
years' age-limit imposed by law in the
United Kingdom, in May, 1915. At that
date there had been practically no advance
in spirits, but after the age-limit was im-
posed certain kinds of Scotch and Irish
whisky increased in price by 200 per cent.
Added to the age-limit gradually came all
the other restrictions, of which, of course,
the greatest was stoppage of distillation. The
age-limit, however, is the main trouble.
There is not the slightest cliancfi o'f the
British Government abolishing that. When
distilling is recommenced there will not be a
large production on account of the high cost
of material. The opinions of the largest dis-
tillers in Scotland and Ireland are that
Scotch whisky will not decrease in cost for
a long time ahead, and that normal condi-
tions cannot be restored for at least four
years from the date they commence to distil.
It would be practically impossible to-day to
buy 500 quarter-casks of Scotch whisky in
Scotland even if 30s. a gallon were offered in
gold.
* t * t
“Ex-Pea”: Saw this in a window in
Argent-street, Broken Hill, on my way to
church last Sunday night:—
BEDS 9d.
CLEAN BEDS Is.
* * * *
“G.”: Prices of all foodstuffs have rushed
skywards this last few years, particularly
finned goods, which Australians still think
it necessary to import. Tinned fish have
increased from 100 to 200 per cent, since the
war. Australia seems to be successful in
canning fruits, rabbits, etc. (the finest bun-
nies in the world, Billjim says), so why not
fish? Many years ago a canning factory was
started at Kingscote, Kangaroo Island, and
the salmon treated there was considered bet-
ter quality than the imported; but, owing
to the cheapness of imported fish at that
time, the Australian industry had to close
down. During November and December
each year the salmon pass along the west
coast of Kangaroo Island in large shoals,
some of which are estimated to contain 20
tons. The local fishermen then make catches
of from 40 to 60 baskets, the fish being sold
as low as 2d. a lb. Salmon not being a good
keeper, and facilities not being available to
market it promptly, large quantities are lost
each year. With modern preserving methods
these fish could be distributed at a price
which would be a godsend to the public.
Snook are also caught in large quantities,
only a small percentage of which reaches the
market for consumption. If the Australian
is too shiftless to catch and can the fish that
swim past his front door he deserves to pay
high for his imports.
“WATCHES REPAIRED.”
[FOB THE BULLETIN.]
Folks ne’er heed the sands are failin’
Through the waisted glass of Time;
All they know is dinner’s callin’
When the mid-hour’s due to chime.
But in Dad’s repairing crib
Clocks that tick an’ clocks that jib
Hang with faces all asmile
At their owners’ daily guile 1
All atickin’ an’ atockin’
Through the hours long they go;
Seemingly they’re often mockin’
At our daily drips of woe!
Pendulums aglint are swingin',
Gongs hn’ loud alarms are ringin’,
Marking moments gay an’ grave
For the coward an’ the brave!
Here’s a face illuminated
Showin’ how the mir fly;
Others there with dials I
Tell how months crav. . lowly by.
Tickin’ ! Tickin’! on they go .
Sometimes fast, an’ sometimes slow,
Moments drip unceasingly
To the tub—Eternity 1
Here’s a watch —with pride I tell it 1 —
That “went bung” at Lonesome Pine;
O’er its wearer’s heart a pellet
Struck him from the Turkish line,
But the metal took the knock,
Nothin’ happened but the shock.
Now it starts again to tick
Like its owner —in good nick 1
There’s a golden wristlet beauty.
Just a little gift he gave,
When he heard the call of duty
Ere he fought and found a grave.
And I know a sad-eyed lass
Sorrow might have deigned to pass;
Now his watch will count her tears
Through the long and hallowed years!
All day long the ticks are countin’
In a warning sort of way,
And Time’s tide is surely mountin’
To the count of Judgment Day.
Notwithstanding poet’s paeans
Moments fly to build the aeons,
An’ Dad’s “tickers” keep their trusi
Tickin’ on because they must.
VICTORIA.
RITA SUNYASEE.


m
Mt.
A
%
J
'm <t%:\
i
/
\ \'
u
7"
c
THE BEAR: “Shut up, you
fool. That’s not the sun —
it's a B.T.H. MAZDA
LAMP/”
Upon the cessation of hostilities most British factories resumed their
pre-war occupations ; consequently the manufacturers of B.T.H. MAZDA
LAMPS (The British Thomson Houston Co. Ltd., Rugby, England) are
now working to fulfil the many orders that have been outstanding
" for some time.
STOCKS will SOON BE AVAILABLE in AUSTRALIA
fc^HiKirisißSiilgwaa
WENTWORTH AY SYDNEY, O? OF QUEEN & LITTLE COLLINS ST MELBOURNE.
OTHER AGENTS
B RISBANE(Q } : The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia (E S C A )
corner Edward and Charlotte Streets *
; Chas - Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd ’ Hay Street
ADELAIDE (S.A.) : Unbehaun & Johnstone, 100 Cur»ie Street.,
OTHER AGENTS:
NEW ZEALAND : The National Electrical it Engineering Co..
Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin and Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay TullOck it Co.. Ltd., Launceston; Messrs,
Oliver it Oliver, MacQuftrie Street, Hobart.


A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Silver Hunting Keyless
Lever, £2/15/-, £3. Gold-filled Elgin'or
Waltham, full jewelled, compensation balance,
10-yoar case, £3/5/-; 20-year, £4/10/-;
25-year, £5/5/-. Extra jewelled, £6/6/-.
Solid Gold, £9/10/-, £lO, £l5,
£l7/10/-, £2O, £25, £3O. £35.
Guaranteed.
A? Saunders’ Oct. Gold Albert, £4/10/-. Lighter, £4/5/-, £3/10/-,
£3. Heavier, £5, £5/10/-, £6, £6/10/-. 15ct., £7/10/-.
Lighter, £7, £6/10/-, £6. Heavier, £B/10/-, £lO, £l2/10/-.
English Hall-marked Silver, 10/-, 12/6, 15/-, 20 /•
A. Saunders’ Lady’s 9ct. Gold Hunting Keyless
Waltham, £6/10/-, £7/10/-. Extra jewelled,
£B/10/-, £lO, £l2/10/-, £l5. Lady’s
9ct. Gold Hunting Keyless Lever, £3/10/-,
£4/10/-, £5, £5/10/-. Solid Silver,
40/-, 50/-, 60/-, £3/10/-, £4.
Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS
A. Saunders’ Lady’s 9ct. Solid Gold Patent Expanding
Watch Wristlet, full-jewelled Lever movement, compensa-
tion balance, £B/10/-. Extra jewelled, £lO. 15ct., £l5.
Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’ Presentation Re-
turned Soldier’s Medal. 9ct.
Gold, 30/-', heavier, 35/-,
40/-, 50/-. lßct. Gold,
£3, £3/10/-, £4/10/-,
£5/10/-
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold, Patent Expanding Watch
Wristlet, jewelled movement, £7/10/-. Others, £4,
£4/10/-, £5, £6, £7/10/- £B/10/-, £lO.
AH Guaranteed.
/
tf"'l
A. Saundeits’ Silver Hunting- Keyless Flyback Chronograph,
£7/10/-. Extra jewelled, £B/10/-. £lO, £l2/10/-. Gold-
filled, £lO, £l2/10/-. Solid Gold, £l7/10/-, £2O, £25, £3O.
Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Curb Albert, £5/5/-. Lighter, £3, £3/10/-,
£4/10/-. 15ct. Gold, £7/10/-
English Hall-marked Silver, 12/6, 15/-, 20/-
A, Saunders’ 9ct. Splid Gold Albert, £3, £3/10/-, £3/l«>/-,
£4/10/-. Heavier, £5, £5/10/-, £6/10/-, £7/10/-.
£5/10/-, £6/10/-, £7/10/-. Heavier, £B/10/-, £lO,
£l2/10/-, £l5.
S 3
O
A. Saunders’ Nickel Open-face Lever Wrist
Watch, 25/-, 30/-. Solid Silver, £2,
£2/10/-. Gold-filled, £3, £3/10/-,
£4/10/-. 9ct. Gold, £5, £5/10/-,
£6/10/-, £7/10/-
All Guaranteed.
WATCH SPECIALIST
805-815 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Opposite Railway Station).
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard,
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weathei’boards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68i PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
For our sick and wounded
BOYS. —When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Red Cross Book
Depot, Wynyard Street, Sydney.
SAFEGUARD YOUR HEALTH
J.Collis Browne’s
CMorodyne
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOB
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
anil in the Cough of BKONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GODT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery •
0/ all Chemists. Prices in England, US, SI-, 5/-.
Made in England.
SCHUTE, BELL & CO. LTD.
Sell WOOL and SKINS.
Personal attention a feature of the business.
Offices : 44 BRIDGE JSTREET, _SYDNE_Y L
§
The surest, quickest remedy for
Catarrh, Ordinary Colds and
Asthmatic troubles. The Stand-
ard remedy for over 40 years.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
BOOKS! BOOKS! BOOKS!
The Book of Nature
A FULL AND EXPLICIT EXPLANATION
OF ALL THAT CAN OR OUGHT TO Bfc.
KNOWN BY
MAN and WOMAN,
INTENDED ESPECIALLY FOR
THE MARRIED, OR THOSE IN-
TENDING TO MARRY.
By L. M. BYRN, M.D.
A PRACTICAL COMPLETE
FAMILY DOCTOR. .
No such Complete Panorama of the Mysteries
of Human Reproduction has ever before been
gI DR t °BYRN’S rId iLLUSTRATED EDITION
11917 ISSUE) IS THE ONLY GENUINE
BOOK. ASK FOR IT, AND TAKE NO
OTHER. PRICE:
TWO SHILLINGS & SIXPENCE.
POST FREE.
Live and Learn, 2/-. How to Get Rich,
1/6 posted. Dr. Lamartine's Silent Friend,
1/6 Ned Donnelly's Art op Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, 1/6. How to
Dance, 1/6 posted. How to Wrestle 1/6.
Moll Flanders (a rare book by Defoe), 1/3
nosted Thurston's Card Tricks, 1/3. All
7ota's including Nana. 2/- each posted.
Educating the Horse, 1/3. Ventriloquism
Made Easy, 1/3. Up-to-date Comic Reciter,
posted. How to Strengthen the
Memopy 1/3. Bell's Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 5/3 posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, 1/3, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(send for list). Joys of Life, 2/-. How
to Make Your Will, 1/3. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 2/3. Career of Beauty
Darling, 2/6. Quadrille Call Book,
2/-. Parlor Tricks and Games, 1/6. For-
tune-Telling by Cards, 1/6. Miller's Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/7. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales,
1/6. Tricks & Diversions with Cards, ill us., l/o.
Beauty’s Secrets, 1/6 post free. Night of Temp-
tation, 1/9. How to Make Love, 1/6 post free.
Fowler’s Science of Life, 12/6. Australian
Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 4/-.
Mahomet’s Fortune-Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price 1/-, posted 1/3.
How to Become Quick at Figures, 1/3. Will
Power (Personal Magnetism), posted 1/-. San-
dow's Book of Strength posted, 4/-. Car-
lisle’s Freemasonry, 6/3 posted. Daughters
of Ismael. 2/6. History of the Rod Flagella-
tions and THE Flagellant: (scarce), 12/-.
Practical Gas and Oil Engine Handbook, 5/6.
Motor Mechanics, 3/3. Motor Manual,
(latest), 3/6. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d.
and 1/6. God and My Neighbor, 9d. How
to Read Faces, 1/9. How to Train for
All Sports, 2/-. Colonial Horse Doctor, 2/-.
French Polishing and Staining, 2/3. Photog-
raphy Self-taught, 1/6. How _to Make
Sweets, Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks
with Coins, 1/3 posted. House Painting and
Papering, 2/3. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
12/6. Australian Pastrycooks’ Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/6 posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/6. How to Read Faces
and Heads, 1/9. Soldering, Brazing, etc.,
2/3 posted. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/9. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; 1/3 posted.
Camille, 1/6 posted. Piano Tuning and Repair-
ing, 2/3. Modern Etiquette, 1/3. H°tle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), l/o. H°w
to Mesmerise, 1/9. Man from Snowy River,
4/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/3 posted. Parlor
Magic, 1/3 posted. The White Slave Iraffic,
1/3. Every Man His Own Carpenter, l/o.
Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator,
1/1. Secret History of the Court of Eng-
land, 2/-. Letter-Writer Up-to-date, l/o
posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, 1/6 posted. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-; 1/-
posted. Electricity Made Simple (new), *>/-.
The Confectioner's Handbook, 1/6. Sexual
Knowledge for Everybody (with plates), 6/o
posted. How to Shine in Society, 1/6.
Cabinetmakers’ Handybook, 2/-. Complete
Bookkeeping, 2/6. Life of Deeming, illus-
trated, l/l. How McDougall Topped the
Score, and Other Verses, 1/3. French
Self Taught, 1/3. Wannan’s Engine-
driver’s Guide, 6/- posted. Decameron of Boc-
caccio. Heptameron, and many others, all at
4/6 each, posted. Lee’s Priceless Recipes, 2/-
posted. Women’s Secrets, 1/- posted. Gay Life
in Melbourne, 1/- posted.
All These Prices Post Paid.
Established 30 Years.
DON’T BE FOOLED
INTO PA YING MORE.
New Tricks with Cards, 1/6. Sappiio, genu-
ine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 posted. Du.
Milford's Midwife's Handbook, 92 practical
illustrations, 3Aristotle, 5/-. Adam Lind-
Write for my
BIG ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
SENT ANYWHERE
FOR THE ASKING.
say Gordon's Poems, 1/9. Practical Palm-
istry, 2/-. Guide to Auctioneering, 3/b.
Lovers' Letter-writer, 1/6. All About Incu-
bators, 2/3. Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed,
Key to All Degrees, New Edition, 1/9 posted.
Vest-pocket Dictionary, 1/6 posted. Tokology,
10/6 posted. Ingersoll's Works, 1/3, 2/-. How
to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/9 posted.
Ciievasse's Advice to a Wife, 3/9 posted, dread
and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-boilers Assist-
ant. 1/9. The Wife's Handbook, 1/3 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, 1/- posted. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness
and its Cure. 1/2 posted. Webster's Large
Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 liras.,
leather bound, my price, 20s. post paid. (Vhy
pav 3 and 4 guineas?). Bootmaking and Repaus-
ing 2/3. Dynamos and Electric Motors. 2/3.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete
Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth hound, 12/6 posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, 1;- Posted.
Henry Lawson's Humorous \ erses, 1/3. hie
\ge of Reason, by Paine, 1/3 posted. Damaged
Goods 1/6. One Day, 1/3 posted. The
Wizard’s Manual. 1/3. Speeches from the
Dock, 2/-. Life’s Shop Window, 1/9. Ihree
Weeks, 2/- posted.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
ROBERT BEAR, the big book store, 67 § 69 Market Street, Sydney mm.
imrBOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.


They Go Together: BEAUTY 8 REXONA
ARE YOU A REXONA GIRL?
MISS M ON A FERGUSON (from a Monte Luke, photo).
Dear Sirs,—
Having- been a constant user of Rexona Soap for
some years, I think you may be interested in hearing
my opinion of it—which is, that it stands alone as a
skin and hair beautifler. AH other soaps that I have
used have a tendency to enlarge the pores of the com-
plexion. liexona Soap seems to make the skin closer,
finer and smoother every day it is used.
With regard to Rexona “anointment” (as a little child
I know calls it), I must tell you that I use it in winter
to prevent the chapping that would otherwise ensue
from bitter winds; and after surfing in summer I always
anoint (the word is useful, isn’t it?) my face, neck,
arms and hands with it, first rubbing a little of it well
in, and then quickly wiping the remainder away with
a clean linen towel. It gives me pleasure to write. I
hope it will give you pleasure to hear.
Yours truly, (Sgd.) 3IONA FERGUSON.
• ' •'
L » 5
m m
I«
MISS FREIDA GUY (from a Monte Luke photo).
HAT natural beauty of skin and hair which
cannot be imitated can be obtained by
regular use of Rexona Skin and Facial
cji Soap. Ordinary Toilet Soaps do not
assert this influence. Many of them
contain free alkali, which tends to dry the skin
and destroy its delicate texture. Even the best
of such soaps can only cleanse; they cannot heal
and protect the skin. Rexona Soap contains the
same soothing, healing, antiseptic balsams as
Rexona the Rapid Healer, the value of which in
the treatment of skin affections is known through-
out the world. Simply use Rexona Skin and
Facial Soap regularly once or twice a day, and
see if it does not quickly soothe and cleanse the
pores, lessen the tendency to pimples and leave the
complexion clear, fresh and velvety. Price 1/-
per tablet.
rexona—
The Aristocrat of Soaps
More CHARMING
REXONA GIRLS.
I am glad to learn that my
application for membership of
the Rexona Club was success-
ful, and wish to thank you for
my election. It is a good idea
to publish the names and
photographs of those who
have banded themselves to-
gether and use only the best,
especially when that best is
such a perfect article as
Rexona Soap. In all my
travels I hear of Rexona, and
I have never yet heard any-
thing but praise about it.
I use Rexona Ointment oc-
casionally to keep my hands
supple, and although I have
used it for a very long time,
not the slightest down has
appeared on the skin. One
cannot say that of many skin
foods or healers.
Believe me, dear sirs,
Yours sincerely.
(Sgd.) FREIDA GUY.
I want to come in with my
Kiri friends and be a Rexona
Girl. It is not too much to
say that by the force of ex-
ample I show everybody wlpat
I think of Rexona, for I carry
the Rexona Soap on every tour
I take, and the little triangu-
lar tin of Rexona Ointment is
always in a corner of my
trunk to be at band in the
event of accident.
By the way, I have been try-
ing in vain to beg, borrow or
steal one of those beautiful
and distinctive Rexona Club
Badges, but I can’t persuade
any of the owners to part
with theirs. Please elect me
soon, so that I may have one
—they’re lovely.
Believe me,
lours cordially,
(Sgd.) FLOSSIE LUSK.
MISS AUDREY ANDERSON (from a Monte Luke photo).
Dear Kexona, —
(This sounds rather familiar, but everybody feels a
friend of Rexona.) May I join the Rexona Club?
Nearly all my chums are members, and I feel quite out
of it, especially as I used Rexona Soap and Rexona
Ointment long before they did. I consider your Toilet
Specialties absolutely perfect. What is more, they last
a long time. One tablet of Rexona Soap outlasts half
a dozen inferior soaps, for an ill-blended soap wastes
itself even after being taken out of the water, while a
good one like Rexona Soap remains firm, fresh and hard
down to the very last atom. The Rexona Ointment is
equally as fine as the soap—it is a true magic healer.
I am,
Yours faithfully,
(Sgd.) AUDREY ANDERSON.
v v-
«
MISS FLOSSIE LUSK (from a Monte Luke photo).
REXONA EVERYONE’S FAVORITE.
All the world over everyone likes the Rexona Remedies. They are universal favorites, and never disappoint you. Rexona is the Rapid
Healer, and Rexona Soap is the facial soap of the century. Care for yourself by using Rexona and Rexona Soap, and your skin will reflect the
improvement from the first, and you will delight yourself as well as your friends.
Rexona the Rapid Healer has always been famous for its wonderful healing powers. Many people now
thank Rexona for skin health and comfort. It is a reliable remedy for Cuts, Burns and all irritations and
eruptions of the skin. No home can afford to be without Rexona, so take a tin home to-night. Price 1/6 & 3/-
o
0
o
THE RAPID H


GREGORY NORTH RABBIT BOARD.
Applications for Superintendent of
Works.
APPLICATIONS are invited until Tues-
day, 17th March, 1919, for the posi-
tion of Superintendent of Works.
Applicants to state age and general experi-
ence in the construction and maintenance of
rabbit-proof fencing and rabbit destruction.
Salary four hundred pounds (£400) per
annum. Camel outfit provided in dry coun-
try, applicant to find necessary horses and
plant for the other portions of the district.
Applications, together with copies of testi-
monials, to be addressed to the Chairman,
Gregory North Rabbit Board, Boulia,
Queensland, and endorsed “Application for
Superintendent of Works.”
For any other particulars apply to the
Clerk of the Gregory North Rabbit Board,
Boulia, Queensland.
E. S. SCHOLEFIELD,
Chairman.
Boulia, 3rd December, 1918.
Educational.
THE WOMEN’S COLLEGE.
UNIVERSITY OF SYDNEY.
Applications are invited for the post
of Principal. Salary £5OO p.a., with
Board and Residence in.the College. Par-
ticulars may be obtained from the Hon. Sec-
retary, Mrs. F. M. Fitzhardinge, 8.A.,
Loomed. Ashley Street, Cliatswood, to whom
applications, stating age and full qualifica-
tions, and accompanied by testimonials (six
copies) must be sent not later than 31st
March, 1919.
FLORENCE FITZHARDINGE,
Hon. Sec.
ms
1
13,
_ Here’s a fine hotel—one tl
7 will satisfy your every need.
It is in the heart of the city—handy
to all business areas, trains, trains,
theatres and public buildings.
Kooms are modern, airy and comfortable
the cuisine “home-like” and ample, the
service quick and courteous. Make the
Queen’s Arms YOUR MELBOURNE
HOME.
QUEEN’S ARMS 1
HOTEL
C! SWAHSTON ST & FUNDERS LAKE
CLAUSE. fi.KERR PI»
Specimen Section of a
“COLO” Tyre,
Eight Points of the “COLO "Tyre
(1) TEE AD.—Corrugated, presenting small sur-
face to the road, thereby saving friction.
(2) TEE AD.—A great, thickness of rubber, which
is practically cut- and chip-proof.
(3) BEEAKEE STEIP, which, being made of
loosely-woven, heavy fabric, binds the tread
to the carcase of the tyre.
(4) PUEE EUBBEE.—Pure Eubber is placed
under Breaker Strip.
(o) CAECASE. Composed of five plies of heavy,
long-fibre canvas, heavily impregnated with
rubber.
(6) FULL AIR SPACE.
(7) SIDE WALLS. —Realising the severe work
tyres are called upon to do in the country,
we have placed a great thickness of rubber on
the side walls, preventing water from entering,
as often happens in other makes of tyres after
a few months’ service. Other makes have
very little thickness of rubber at this point.
(8) BEADS are heavily reinforced and skin-
coated with rubber, to prevent rust.
MARCUS CLARK & CO. LTD.,
Tel. City 2567.
162 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
SYDNEY.
POVERTY
POINT
“Snell”: My aged parent recalls a season
of egg-throwing at the Charlie Napier
Theatre, Ballarat, in the old gold days. The
actor, one Will Smith, appears to have been
quite a bearable sort of comedian, but he
had got himself into ill favor, putting up a
fist fight on behalf of an official. Eggs,
brought from Ireland, packed in salt and saw-,
dust, were 4d. or (id. apiece at the time, but
or. the night after the fight there were plenty
for Smith gratis. My progenitor does not
recollect the play, but Act 1 of it was mostly
eggs. Coming on in Act 2, the victim
A SURPRISE.
THE ARTIST : “So you liked my little picture
ih the exhibition?”
THE MODEL : “I was never so astonished in
my life as when I saw your name on it.”
casually carried in a large brown bag, and
when eggs started coming his way again
Smith got back at the. enemy with the same
weapon. The actor man proved to be re-
markably deft: whereas the audience often
missed him, he never missed the audience.
Every egg Smith threw fetched someone, and
every time an egg was thrown at Smith,
Smith replied in kind. Those men whom
Smith hit, and who were not in the crusade
against him, being unable to get at Smith
directly, got to the egg-throwers in the audi-
torium who were indirectly responsible, and
in the melee that followed the poor player’s
enemies had very much the worse doing.
Smith solemnly brought on his brown bag
in Act 1 next night, but eggs were off. Smith
had triumphed. At the end of the season a
complimentary banquet was tendered to the
comedian. The menu was all eggs. Even
the brandy was served in egg-shells.
“O.K. ’: Frank Thornton was essentially
a Tubbs in his commercial outlook. No
actor-manager ever had a keener eye for
gross receipts and net profits It was said
of him in Australia that when he was run-
ning the show on his own, or on sharing
terms, he would count the heads in the d.c.
whilst playing his part. Then when the
night’s returns came along he would check
the d.c. figures and remark upon the number
of deadheads. If the doorkeeper had omitted
to enter one of the non-productive visitors
in his book Thornton would call him to
account. His spendthrift Dick Phenyll in
“Sweet Lavender” was good because it was
the dead ring of Edward Terry’s creation.
His own Private Secretary, Lord Chancel-
lor (“Iolantlie”) and John Wellington Wells
(“The Seorcerer”), not to mention Charley’s
Aunt, were persons of a distinctly niggardly
type. They looked like haggling over a
thrum.
Even before the armistice, there were two
Maoriland teams of entertainers in the
theatrical field. The Kiwis were showing
at the Alhambra in Paris, and the Pierrots
at the Victoria in London. Both companies
were advertised as “direct from the Front.”
Ibsen is to be the Taits’ third Repertory
programme at the Palace (Sydney). “John
Gabriel Borkman” is the play selected —a
gloomy thing with less comedy in it than an
addled egg.
“L.L.W.”: I was at the first performance
of Paderewski’s Polish symphony in London
eight years ago. The music described the
revolution of 1563 in his country. I haven’t
forgotten yet the clash and clamor of the
brass sarrusophones and the thunderings of
the tritruones, his own invention. We all
yelled for the composer and I expected to
.see a tall, pale, serious-looking man with a
wild shock of untamed hair. Instead, a
little man in evening-dress, with a mane
combed smoothly back like a neat wig,
popped in front of the orchestra an I began
bowing in all directions. By the way. many
years ago Pad.’s opera “Manru” was banned
from Berlin, just bn the eve of its produc-
tion, because the composer gave a large sub.
to the funds of a Polish committee at Posen
formed to prevent Poland from being Ger-
manised.
“Smike” : Comparing the two big
Melbourne pantos., the advantage
in scenic effectiveness is with the
Firm’s. In “Jack and Jill” Wil-
liam Itowell has certainly made
two happy successes of the Bagdad
and Spanish Ballet scenes, but his
performance hardly counterbal-
ances weaknesses elsewhere. Clint
in particular has not painted up
to his usual form, and the lighting
hardly mitigates the rawness of his
cloths, notably his principal effu-
sion, the Floral Ballet. In “Goody
Two Shoes” the conspiracy be-
tween more experienced artists and
limelight men is a constant beguile-
ment. Note the seductive pretti-
ness of the Kirchner Girl scene
and the delicate fancy of the Bub-
bles set. These pictures are the
work of Coleman. This veteran’s
interiors have that suavity of de-
sign rarely achieved except after
years of effort, and his outdoor
scenes, like the Village of Rlossom-
ville and the Fringe of the Forest,
possess the highest artistic attrac-
tion.
‘O. Blin”: Barry Lupino. who is most
of the agitation in “Jack and Jill” at Mel-
bourne King’s, has a great regard for
decayed theatrical relics. Any small object
that has been associated with some old-time
celebrity is a valuable passport to his favor,
and he will listen to its history with a big
babe’s eye for the most trivial details. At
the present time he is attached to an aged
dolman or cape which was a permanent
feature of the late Dan Leno’s panto outfit.
This antique guarded Leno from misfortune
for many years, and to Lupino it is almost
a second wife. He speaks of it like a poet
of his poem or a punter of a popular fancy.
“Yarra Ben” ; The Tait brethren like
being particularly busy showmen during the
next few months. In addition to their general
theatrical ventures they will be piloting Harry
Lander round Australia for a second time
and filling in the odd moments by showing
a big film they have just acquired in Eng-
land. This depicts the surrender of the
Hun battleships and other ironmongery, and
if that “movie” isn’t destined to add a Tew
kopecks to the Baits’ banking account I’ll
take to work for a living.
“BABES IN THE WOOD,” AT SYDNEY
GRAND OPERA HOUSE.
Horatio, the Hamfat (Dan Dunbar ), and
the Bad Baron (Horace Mann).
The idea of this new film (there is to be
about 3000 ft. of it) originated in Adelaide.
Liquor arguments are being prepared by the
organisations controlling the industry, and
the prohibitionists’ case (or barrel) is being
presented by the South Aus. Temperance
Alliance. The liquor trade intends to show
the industries which will be destroyed by
prohibition; the Alliance will attempt to
demonstrate how other industries will be
developed by the reform. “King Alcohol —
Shall He Live or Die?” is to be the title.
“Scuffler”: On New Year’s Day I saw
above the sleepy, smoky city an old familiar
gasbag blowing inland and wobbling lazily
towards the floor of Heaven, and I guessed
that an old friend was risking his neck once
more. True-—-next day’s paper had the news
that airman Taylor had gone up from Coogee
and landed safely in a suburban road. Tay-
lor must have parachuted about 300 miles in
the last 10 years, and, so far as I know, in
all his coastal ascents, his flying umbrella
has never once landed him far out in the
Pacific. Somehow, his smoke-bag always
seems to drift inland and snake down into
somebody’s back-yard, so that he has got quite
used to interrupting an afternoon tea-drink-
ing with, “Pardon, but may I get my balloon?
It has just fallen on top of your woodshed.”
“Valentine Day”: Some Dickens produc-
tions that I remember (for “O.K.’s” benefit).
Besides the Tyrone Power version of “The
Only Way,” an American serving of
Dickens’s “Tale of Two Cities” was offered
bv Katie Putnam at Sydney Gaiety in 1889,
and was followed by “The Old Curiosity
Shop.” J. L. Toole made the hit of his Aus-
tralasian tour as Caleb Plummer in “Dot,”
in which, however, he was overshadowed by
the Peerybingle of John Bellington and the
Tilly Sloeboy of Eliza Johnstone. Toole also
staged scenes from “Pickwick” here; and
played Sergeant Buzfuz. “0.K.” has also
overlooked dramatisations of “Bleak House.”
The first in my memory was presented by
Madame .Tanauschel —imported in the late
’7o’s _by Harwood, Stewart, Hennings and
Coppin to rival Madame Ristori, shown by W.
S. Lyster across Bourke-street at the Opera
House. As Lady Dedlock the German failed to
draw. Georgie Smithson, I think, got in first
with Jo, at Sydney Queen’s, early in the ’Bo’s.
Jennie Dee first showed us how the part
should be played in 1884, or thereabouts.
She revisited Australia with “The Crossing
Sweeper” as her strong suit during 1891-92
and 1899-1900.
nv" ®i'.”" .' Tooth for a Tooth,” at Melbourne
Tivoli, i s an ingenious- trifle, to me more
interesting than anything I have seen on the
Australian stage in a year. It opens with
an amorous couple in quaint guise in a futur-
ist setting under a swollen moon. The lovers
embrace and dance down stage in a mystic
atmosphere. Suddenly footsteps are heard.
The girl simulates fear. Enter a man in
black, his back to the audience. The girl
incites her lover to stab the stranger. As the
figure falls it turns, and we see that it has
no face —just a white fungoid blank
occupying the site. Again footsteps. The
lovers drag the dead thing to a seat at the
back of the stage, and propping it between
them pretend to hold it in conversation.
Enter a police-inspector. There is by-play
between the inspector and the girl. The in-
spector i s suspicious ; he commands the youth
to rise. The youth obeys, and the body left
to itself sways, then falls. The inspector
goes to the body. The youth in horror shoots
the girl, and the curtain falls on her con-
tinued screams, and rises almost instantly,
disclosing the interior of a dentist’s-room,
with the girl in the chair, yelling, fresh from
the gas, and the dentist holding up the ex-
tracted tooth. It is the smartest sketch the
revue craze has brought to Australia, and is
well done, although the Aubrey Beardsley-
esque atmosphere and fashion of the charac-
ters should be more strongly emphasised.
Couldn’t a few Australians do smart, quaint
things like this, and infuse some gumption
into the blatant revues?
SUPPORTS.
[FOB THE BULLETIN.]
The big old actor booms all morning;
We hear him like a minute-gun.
All interruptions blandly scorning,
He tolls his virtues one by one —
The praise he had from critics hoary;
The transcendental parts he “took”:
This climax to each wondrous story—
“ And I supported G. V. Brooke!”
“I’ve shone in comic play and tragic
For over half a century,
And men have spoken of the magic
Ot my fine personality.
By- mumming youngsters I am classed a
Back number, maybe; but, gadzook !
At any work I’m still their master,
And I supported G. V. Brooke!
“My Hamlet was the finest ever”
(He gives us samples from the book) ;
“M.v .Borneo distinctly clever,
And I supported G. V. Brooke!”
To-day exclaimed the hash-house mother:
“1 don’t know him, but I attest
That here at one time or another
I have supported all the rest!”
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.
A MISCHANCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A man, a maid, a box of chocs,
Three at the show, a play that shocks,
A kiss, a squeeze (at crowds love mocks)..,.
Lights up—he’d kissed her mother!
A taxi home, a short-lived ride,
H'is thoughts upon his future bride;
He helped her down and then fell wide....
Lights out —he’d met her brother!
N.S.W.
WHIM.


mmm
zmiWtstMi
mw&i
&r.
3e
nv
i**:
■; »
SV~
*•
'.N'.ST-
x:.-'
25S
■.*r.<
>•
#£
€\ : -y:t
ypj
535
m
rs23£
jts
SS
»
v-‘ /••«
W?
Vyif
u»w
S-lfM
•SK
Price
Out o’Doors
Ride the road of the great Outdoors!
Be healthier, happier—drive an Overland.
A model of your very heart’s desire is included in the complete range of
Overland motor cars. There is a car that will make you proud yet will meet
your purse.
For you cannot find greater value. The huge production of Overlands
makes possible vast economies, and unusual benefits to you.
Look at an Overland a glance will convince you of its
excess value. Ask for the “85 Four” model, for example (see
illustration). There is nothing in the world like it for all-’round
utility. Big four-inch tyres, great reserve engine power, fine
appearance; simple control, comfortable, long lasting. And it is
completely equipped ready for the road.
A demonstration and catalogues are obtainable from
Australian
Distributors
GARRATTS LTD., Sydney
r KELLOW-FALKINER PTY. LTD., Melbourne
AUTO-CARS LTD., Adelaide
EAGER & SON, Brisbane
- ANDERSON & ADAMS LTD., Perth
H. G. HEATHORNE & CO. LTD., Hobart.
A. HAT RICK & CO., Wanganui, N.Z.
V N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION,
Christchurch, N.Z.
WILLYS-OVERLAND, Inc,
1779 Toledo, Ohio, U. S. A,
*❖l*. H'iX' • ■:■'■ : < '•.-./ ■ ■ •', .::•;
< • «.
; *, /.
:<• ;.< -,' >..; * A »*01... A-<>
i
sf » •
JH •• V ;
m
;• / > • i >
\
SiSSXrf
V',;v
/x>
>. * ; ;*V
•’ • ' *lf
v.C.. * w - ;> 1
; u
p-WV^-M
iSirtyi
<; : •
/?
/T:„
f^r)
<*
//»
»
wr* &
$ ';••*■• .• ?/< *
• :;>rW>‘ ;* *\I s y. ***
'fo£r? ?/“ '9 : A
m^wmm
i<4 H ' • .3.4*/ * •'•■• * ..* ;•; *.v •.'^V
Av^a*/• .». Cj.v«r *.f/-jv< 4 » ;«iu>'^j«. a?; /-■
* , ’C^rr7* r ? -#> •/>.•- y««rT.-» *•. -?.. ;y *•:• •. vj&»tA>
_^y v .v .- —.— ■■'■ ■■ r ' —— - r>
rW: 4g&K4te
its
'KiZttrjinr->
+V6A
■-- -;■> I
»*«af ?
I*7
&2&£
??SssSsSr:2
SsS£s-
- !•**& ?«
vX* f * •"»
'>Vx
CJ5;*;
S 5?
wffls
ar
JS
g&g
■mmsm
: MP
t&v<
XS*:.
««y
Delivery.


A
WINCHCOMBE,
CARSON
said the angry bull. “They’re the people
who shorten one’s life.”
High prices tempt owners.
Winchcombe, Carson never fail to secure top
market values for Fat Cattle and Sheep at
Ilomebush.
Consign Stock:
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON LTD.,
Flemington Siding.
2573
For
“Trouble-Free”
Motor Cycling.
For speed work, hill climb or solo or
side-car touring, you’ll find in
MH
MOTOR MIS
the ideal lubricants. Their high-flash
point and unmatchable viscosity keep
your engine clean and vigorous and
safe against wear.
Obtainable all Garages and
Storekeepers
in one-gallon tins, 4-gallon tins and
barrels. Ask also for National Motor
Greases.
NATIONAL; OIL, CO., LTD.,
4 Bridge Street, Sydney.
JAIMES WARD IE & CO.,
Adelaide. ‘
N
“THERE’S MONEY IN THE PEN."
fS
The above
is the title
of our book-
let, which |
tells about
the possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
bv HARRY J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
difference betvveen
learning to COPY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains, in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
penny stamps
to-day for a
copy of this
booklet
“THERE’S
MONEY
IN
THE
PEN.”
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
96 Waltham Building's, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY.
Me Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries,
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since 1598. CURES Write for BooU
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
2b GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road. London, England
Insist on “Singleton’s”—refuse all substitutes.
SEND YOUR
ELECTRICAL
REPAIRS
to
The Australectric Company-
-97 Clarence Street, Sydney.
All Work Guaranteed.
Telegrams: “ EXPANSE.” Telephones: tlss} 01 * 7
Ask for.
ySfissa
erlupe
Complexion
Powder,
Fragrantand Clinging
Ask vour Chemist.
Clean Teeth Never Decay
The Daily Use of
CRETONIC
TOOTH
PASTE
Will Save Many a Pain or Ache.
Deli&ht/'ully Refreshing to the Mouth.
z
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
A-Z
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed)
SPELTER
BHAS,
BRAND
Containing about 95.75% Metallic Zinc
HIGH-GRADE ZINC DUST ZINC CONCENTRATES
Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc. Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for auove AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTiONSj
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, L’mited,
“Collins House," 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
A Brooks will
make a “bounce”
impossible, the
Brooks compensating
springs will see to that
and only a
BROOKS
has these. Therefore whate’er may be
your choice of nl'iint, never be influenced
to accept any ocher make of saddle than
this the world's acknowledged best.
Aik your Agent.
A SEASONED SHAVER.
“Many’s the Razor I have tried, but there’s none
like the ‘Plum.’ ” So spoke a seasoned shaver, and
his experience is echoed by thousands of others.
Join the big crowd who swear by
THE "PLUM” RAZOR.
PRICE 10/6—POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
The above makes a handsome present.
“Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/2 Tube, post free.
All the above Post Free. Send for our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
\-
Tried and Trusted—
The “PLUM”
Razor.
The beauty specialists have to make the
exercises attractive to hold their customers.
The latest idea to keep Mrs. Fatneck inter-
ested is to stand her with her back to a
mirror and let her examine her southern
aspect minutely from all angles.
Mrs. Pankhurst has screamed in J. Bull’s
ear that the Women’s Party must stamp
out Bolshevism. History has done a record
sprint since the suffragettes were setting nre
to houses, churches and pillar-boxes; also
window-smashing, hunger-striking, etc. But
how would Mrs. Pank. deal with a con-
victed Bolshevik who persisted in hunger-
striking? No use offering him the franchise.
He has that already.
“■B” : He is not called Palestein in the direc-
tory, but that name is as good as any
other. All the most affluent members of
our suburban Jerusalem were present at his
daughter’s wedding breakfast, and Palestein
proposed the toast of the happy pair. I
hope,” he concluded, “that their future vill
be as pright as these tiamond studs” —and
a fat, beringed hand caressed in turn the
three jewels that blazed upon his rampart
of boiled shirt.
General Sir Francis Lloyd, R.S.V.P.,
P.T.0., etc., who lately relinquished his
command of the British forces on the Lon-
don front, has probably made more speeches
than any other English officer living. His
beautifully-groomed moustache and hair and
his glittering uniform have adorned the
opening ceremonies of hundreds of soldiers
clubs, military charities, matindes, etc.,
where he has swayed in orgies of elocu-
tionary flapdqodle. it was he who issued
the order that wounded men, as well as all
other soldiers on leave in London, were to
rise to attention and swing their arms to all
officers —even if seated in a theatre, settled
in a restaurant or jambed in a public con-
veyance. This brain-wave occurred at a
time when things were looking blue, and the
lowah ordahs were showing signs of war-
weariness. Lloyd George, who was working
under a tremendous strain, was pleased.
Uncle Sam, having unearthed a little list
compiled by Bernstorff, late Hun ambassa-
dor in U.S., of Americans who could be
relied upon to be “useful to Germany,” Uncle
is now calling upon sundry citizens to ex-
plain the thusness thereof, and the air is
thunderous. Among the most noisy of the dis-
claimants is David Starr Jordan. David’s
case will call for laborious protestation, if
his American career is consistent with his
brief but Vesuvian upheaval in Australia.
Jordan came here as a. peace spouter,
preaching the utter folly of armaments, and
the preposterousness of those who thought
war possible in these enlightened times.
According to Jordan, what was folly in all
other nations was sheer maniacal high-step-
ping in Australia, cut off as it was from all
participation in any possible war. If
Australia had listened to D. S. Jordan, the
Commonwealth would have stripped itself of
offensive and defensive machinery at a time
most satisfactory to the abounding Hun.
Jordan explains to Uncle Sam that his only
dealings with Bernstorff took the form of
intercession on behalf of an Australian lady
who wanted some favor or another at the
hands of Germany. But Jordan does not
explain how it came about that out of 100
million Americans one Australian lad:
should have picked on him.
“P.X.” from the other end of the earth
There is nothing else that the world seems quite
so short of as sugar. In England and practically
every other country under arms it is forbidden to
put the old familiar sugar-bowl upon a public dining-
table. John Bull has rationed his sugar supply;
every citizen may buy half a pound per week and
no more. First, he registers in his district;
then every week he draws his book of coupons at
the registry, and he must hand over his coupon
before a tradesman may supply him —which rule
applies to meat and a few other things besides sugar.
You carry your own sugar to the public dining-
table ; incidentally, this has produced another article
of common use—the pocket sugar-case, often of
silver, about the size of an old-fashioned watch. If
you haven’t your own supply of sugar with you, you
may be able to get a grain of saccharin —a sweet
coal-tar product without any food value. You might
spend months in France without seeing a grain of
either sugar or saccharin, though you can generally
get a liquid saccharin, which is horribly unsatisfac-
tory. But the armies in France get a fair quantity
of sugar ; at any rate, they get all there is. Italy
is worse off than France; even saccharin can rarely
be got there. The U.S.A. sugar-bowl has been put
away in the cupboard, too; but a teaspoonful may
be served at a meal to every customer in a public
rating-house; and that is the rule, too, in Canada.
But Canada isn’t so strict about sugar as it is about
spirits. Save Montreal and a small slice of Quebec,
the whole Dominion is bone-dry; and there are
plenty who think it will never be moist again.
“H. 0.” : Nawman Bayles, an awf’ly decent
sort of chap, is the most persistent intel-
lectual shirker in politics. To obtain or
supply definite information on any subject is
too much of a beastly bally bore for Naw-
man, whose speeches are as vague as the
policy of the Government he supports. To-
ward the close of the session State Labor-
leader Prendergast made a speech in the Yic.
Leg. Ass. on prison reform, full of facts and
figures regarding the prisons he has visited
here and abroad, which drew’ congratulations
from both sides of the House and moved
Nawman to emulation. Nawman men-
tioned that he too had devoted some time to
investigating the subject. He had visited a
prison in Maoriland, but could not recall its
name. The prisoners were employed on
forestry work and were paid, but he could
not remember how much. He was so inter-
ested in the system that he had made it his
business to call on the Minister in charge.
The Minister’s name had slipped Nawman’s
memory, but he was “a very nice man,” and
had given Nawman a quantity of literature.
Nawman had kept that literature for years,
and had intended bringing it down to the
House that day, but had not been able to
lay his hands on it. However, he was able
to assure hon. members with absolute cer-
tainty that it was “very interesting.” Hav-
ing thus delivered himself he sat down, with
the air of a man w T ho had done his duty at
the cost of personal discomfort and mental
strain.


lili
7V/
aSs
IW
$$
uw\
Is
DESIRABLE FROM EVERY ANGLE.
The New
Light Four
Light Six
Big Six
Beautiful in Design
Thoroughly Modern
Mechanically Right
HE New Series 19 Studebakers are distinctively
good-looking. The lines are stylish, modern and
individual, like the higher-priced cars. The cars
are unusually comfortable —and they’re reliable.
They are distinguished from the ordinary low-priced
cars by many features. Note how the metal of the bodies,
for example, is built over hardwood frames. Yet the cars
are so well designed and made of such excellent material that
they are very light. They are perfectly balanced, with conse-
quent low benzine and tyre expense.
Then the soft, flexible application of power, through
flexible couplings and intermediate transmission, means
everything in easy riding. Examine the construction and
note how scientifically this is obtained. The balanced weight,
silent gear-shift, short turning-radius and irreversible steering
gear result in exceptionally easy driving, as well ; ideal for the
owner-driver because of its convenience and accessibility.
Add to this the desirability of the car itself, tested and
proven by 40,000 mile road-trials, its economy, ample power
and the fact that they are Studebakers all through—and you
will see how desirable they are from every angle.
Order Now and Get Immediate Delivery.
THE STUDERAKER CORPORATION OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
Head Office for Australia: 177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. South Australian Branch: 1 Currie Street, Adelaide
Turner Bros., 398 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Armstrong C. & M. Agency, Hay Street, Perth.
C, C. & M. A. Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
New Zealand: Adams Limited,
Christchurch,
Palmerston North,
Timaru,
Wanganui,
ESTABLISHED 1852


USES
ofjuxife
“Unalloyed” Dyes
The dyes used in Hose
of Luxite are “unalloyed’^—not
loaded with heavy metallic com-
pounds to give the glossy,
heavy appearance.
The soft, full-bodied/shimmer of
Hose of Luxite Is gained by the
use of rich, fine-stitched materials,
pure'dyed.
That is why elegance and
beauty last through repeated wash-
ings.
The wide range of styles and
prices wifi suit every purse and
purpose.
Don’t accept substitutes, and
think you have “Luxite.”
Insist upon the ,genuine.
If your dealer /is unable to
supply you, write' us.
Walter Cathfiro Pty. Ltd.,
York Street : : Sydney.
OTAMMEHING cured by Prof. F. W. Foote’s simple
and effective method. Deals with the mental
cause —it removes all fear and gives the patient con-
fidence in himself to overcome his defects and master
his impediment. Training is conducted in your own
home under Prof. Foote’s personal correspondence.
This Home Study Course succeeds when all other
methods fail. Write to-day for Prospectus “0,” Jas.
Rodger and Co., Prof. Foote’s Australasian Represen-
tatives, 159 E Manchester Street,. Christchurch, N.Z.
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
Sydney’s Hotel do Luxe.
Clifton Gardens
This beautifully-situated RESIDENTIAL
HOTEL is unique in the Southern Hemi-
sphere, being RIGHT ON THE HARBOR
FRONT, with its own secluded BEACH AND
GROUNDS and AMPHITHEATRE SWIM-
MING BATHS, the whole surrounded by
natural Bush.
25 Fine New Bedrooms have just
been erected, built over the water,
every room looking out to the Heads.
Daily service of Steamers, including Theatre
Boat, to and from No. I Jetty, Circular
Quay.
A Delightful Ferry Trip.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths.
Apply Manager,
CLIFTON GARDENS HOTEL,
Telephones: ' ' MOSMAN, N.S.W.
Y 3002.
Shw-Sk#
■HUNTS
MOSQUITOES
A Marvellous
discovery.
Gives absolute
PROTECTION
FROM THE PEST.
Nothing else
LIKE IT
Id better
n
some.
■Vs
Per bottle, all Chemists
and Stores or
2/ Posted to any part
/ 0/Australia
R.I.P.
from H.C.PRICE-. Ch&rswood.W.S.W.
Public Notice.
SOLDIERS’ DIARIES.
THE Mitchell Library is desirous of pur-
chasing for the State Archives original
diaries of Australian Soldiers taking part
in the Great War. Good prices will be
paid ’ for good material. Address Mitchell
Library, Macquarie Street, Sydney.
For the Trustees,
W. H. IFOULD,
Principal Librarian and Secretary.
To sit in your
chair, carry on
conversation, o r
hold an animated discussion
with a little box, that replies
in a clear voice and with human in-
telligence is (at least for the first
time) a rather weird experience. It is
possible with the “Dictograph.”
Dictograph
J/HTEK CO/'iVEß'fe'lO S'lfcTE.M
Not a phonograph. No mouthpiece. No
earpiece (except for secret conversation).
Confer with any connected employee, consult your associates at their
desks listen to a meeting in another room (and take part), dictate
direct to vour typist—and yet remain in your chair; or, while talking, be
free to refer to letters, files, etc., in any part of your private office.
The “Dictograph” is used by the largest organisations in England and
America. It saves time, interruptions and wasted footsteps. Let us give
you a demonstration in your office.
r^~i
Lamson
Store
Service
Co.
Queen Street, SYDNEY
Olderfleet, MELBOURNE
Royal Prince Alfred
Hospital Jubilee Fund
£1000'«II-
A WAR BOND FOR A THOUSAND POUNDS is tho FIRST PRIZE offered
by the Executive of the Royal Prince Alfred Hospital in its Monster ART UNION.
The tickets are only ONE SHILLING, and, remember, YOUR chance is just
as good as the other fellow’s. irTmr _, T ,
The attraction is twofold —you help the hospital, which, in this, its JUBILEE
YEAR, is sorely in need of funds, while, at the same time, you have the chance of
winning a THOUSAND POUNDS—rand all for the outlay of ONE SHILLING.
Here is a list of the 'principal Prizes: —
FIRST FRIZE—£IOOO WAR BOND.
2nd Prize—Ford Standard Touring
Car, value £245.
3rd Prize—£loo War Saving Certifi-
cate.
4th Prize —Five-stone Diamond Ring,
value £7O.
sth Prize—Estey Organ, value £65.
6th Prize—Bedroom Suite, value
£65.
7th Prize—Complete Set Household
linen, value £55.
Bth Prize—Dining-room Furniture,
value £5O.
9th Prize —Dining-room Suite, value
£4O.
10th Prize —Canteen Cutlery and
Silverware, value £4O.
11th Prize—Remington Visible
Typewriter, value £34.
12th Prize—Gold Watch Bangle, or
Goods, value £25.
13th Prize—Latest Type Singer Sew-
ing Machine, value £l7.
14th Prize—Easy Chair, value £lO
10s.
15th Prize—Armchair, value £6 6s.
Total Value of Prizes is £lBO5 6s.
TO BE DRAWN POSITIVELY APRIL 30, 1919. RESULTS PUBLISHED
UNDER PUBLIC NOTICES, DAILY PAPERS, MAY 3, 1919.
Tickets (1/- each) can be obtained from the Bookstalls, Tobacconists, News
Agencies, and all Branches of the Government Savings Bank. Books of 20 Tickets
for 18s.. from WILLIAM EPPS, E.C.1.5.. Hon. Gen. Sec.
Offices: 3rd Floor, Bull’s Chambers, 14 Moore Street, Sydney.
m
riffig
O-
iiuinit
a
7
When a man has a good wife, a good bank account, and a
he may reckon himself “very well off.”
While everyone may not secure the
others, no one need deny himself the
pleasurable possession of the G.B.D.- —
the perfect pipe!
Many popular shapes
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
BO
From an Australian oil-well driller, at
present/in the U.S.A.: —
Recent developments in this country should give
the Commonwealth additional encouragement to go
ahead in the search for oil. Until a year or so ago
a co. was considered extremely venturesome if it
expended much capital in “wild-catting ’ territory
that did not on the surface give some indication of
the presence of oil below, in the form of
a gas or oil seepage. But of late, discoveries of
oil in unsuspected places have opened up vast possi-
bilities in territory that has previously been passed
by without a thought. It had been considered that
the Los Angeles district was on the has-been list so
far as new development was concerned, with the old
Le Brea, Whittier, Fullarton, Brea CanSn fields all
well defined and settled down into “power”-pumping
propositions. But the discovery of oil at Monte-
bello, a hitherto unsuspected anticline between Los
Angeles and Whittier, by the Standard Oil Co. some
18 months ago, has focussed attention on many a
hill in the district that had given no surface
betrayal of possible hidden treasures below. And
there are many “wild cats” now being put down in
these parts that are anxiously watched by oil men,
and it is not unlikely that Los Angeles will see a
repetition of the oil-boom days.
But what portends to be the most extensive oil-
field the world has ever seen is in Ranger, Texas,
which I visited last month. This field has not been
defined yet, but it has already been proved that the
oil extends over an area of, roughly, 120 by 65
miles, and not a seepage of oil or gas anywhere. The
bore that struck oil was a test hole being put dovyn
to look for coal, as there was a coal-seam being
worked about nine miles away ; but instead of coal
they got a 3000-barrel well of 43° gravity oil.
To-day there are over 200 rigs at work in Ranger,
development being curtailed by shortage of men,
water and storage. A pipe line to the coast, 200-odd
miles away, is now being laid. I motored 54 miles
south-west from Ranger, and was not out of sight
of a drilling-well all the way. From a sleepy
village of about 400 souls to a hustling town of
7000 is the record of Ranger, and all since April
last. Among many other fields I visited the famous
Eldorado Field, 30 miles from Wichita. Here the
Gypsy Co.’s Shumway Lease (100 acres) has pro-
duced $14,000,000 worth of oil in the last 14 months,
and four years ago a well put down in the centre of
this lease owing to it being badly drilled was pro-
nounced dry! A further try was not made until
over two years later.
*•* * *
John Craze, running the Round Hill silver-
lead mine, near Sheffield (Tas.), isn’t
keeping back news from shareholders, yet
all he has to say rather confirms the idea
that the Round Ilill has not got such a
solid formation as that on which North
Farrell has done its sprints. Till lately
Craze wailed over shortage of workers, as
well as the cutting out of the old shoots
met with in No. 1 tunnel. These gave
profits, but the cash had to be put back
into the mine, and things looked blue till
a north-west crosscut oft the bottom tunnel
got on to a shoot with decent walls. Early-
birds went nap on shares, which weary
holders were ready to supply under the belief
that the formation was all poor stuff. But
the last little lot of concentrates ran 4dwt.
gold, 43 p.c. lead and 90oz. silver per ton,
and costs were low. About 100 feet has
been proved north and south on the shoot,
and as the width of the formation is 18 feet
the outlook would be cheerful if already
the presence of a slab of mullock had not
shown that Round Hill is not yet out of
the shreds and patches list. Most of the
rich stuff comes from a narrow vein in the
shoot, and the point to be settled is whether
the north-west crosscut off the No. 2 tunnel
higher up the hill will prove the same shoot
of high-grade material.
The property which includes the old
Phoenix copper-mine and the Mabel gold-
mine at Wiseman’s Creek (N.S.W.) has
been idle for many months, although a
quantity of furnace products, reverb,
bottoms, etc., were sent away from the
Phoenix early last year. Now there is a
chance of a Tasmanian crowd buying the
property. The previous history of the
Phoenix has not been particularly en-
couraging, zinc and lead in the ore having
made reverb, work unprofitable. The Mabel,
worked for a time by a Sydney co. which
vainly endeavored to cyanide the ore for
its gold contents, was originally opened to
supply gossan for fluxing purposes. Although
it probably contained about sdwt. gold, its
copper and sulphuric contents precluded
successful cyaniding, more especially as the
all-solution method was tried. Crushing
with water, and then cyaniding, might have
been more successful; but apart from the
slimy character of the gossan when crushed,
a percentage of baryta in the ore caused
mechanical trouble. At the same time there
are many propositions that carry less
values than the Phoenix and the Mabel, and
a deep shaft below the latter might unearth
a good copper lode.
North Wiseman’s, Wiseman’s Creek
(N.S.W.), has been pegged out by a Bath-
urst syndicate, though whether it is for the
sake of the old dumps or for the mine itself
is not yet known. Probably the dumps will
be the first consideration. This mine has
in the past yielded good results; during one
period of three years 3400 tons of 10.5 p.c.
ore were sent to Lithgow. Many attempts
have been made to obtain permission to
again prospect the property, but the fact
that it was a C.P. precluded any satisfac-
tory terms. Even the dumps, which should
contain some payable ore, have remained
untouched for years. Once the scene of
a good little goldfield, Wiseman’s Creek has
almost disappeared. Its greatest hope now
lies in the chance that North Wiseman’s,
thrown open by the just-amended Mining
Act, may come into prominence as a copper
producer.
* * * *
The world’s most southerly tinfield, Cox’s
Bight (Tas.), has had a wee revival lately.
For a long time there was only one miner on
it, and he had as lonely a job as could be
found in Australia; but when tin soared
prospectors began to nose about and found
that the beach sand carried tin. as high as
3 p.c. in places. There is talk of a dredge.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
With Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
pf'ivnte Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates* and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd..
'i'el.— City 4246,
4247,
4810.
2,4, 0 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
via
the Allied Route,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, JANUARY 22,
SONOMA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Telephone: City 2282. 44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Itanklng, Public Companies. &c.
THE,
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
'Directors: The Lon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY
Kt. (Chairman); WILLIAM DAVIES; E. 11.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A.; lion. Sir ROBERT PHILP
K.C.M.G.; Hon. A. J. TIIYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Onice: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
NATIONAL BANIL
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital ' 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund ... . 222,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 189 S specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) •
Hon. G. AV. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq.; AV. 11. Hart, Esq.
General Manager —AV. V. RALSTON
HEAD OITICE - - . ISKISMANE
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED,
Authorised Capital .£2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £l3O 000
Directors: MARK SHELDON, Esq., ’ Chairman-
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LLD; FRANK N
YARAVOOD, Esq.; HERBERT R. LYSAGIIT
Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon F
JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.
General Manager-. C. M. C. Shannon.
Chiej Insvector: J. S. Marks.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager’: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Inspector lor
Queensland: J. N. 11. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 139 Places throughout New South AVales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. £529 988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750 000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital . . . . .. 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2.345’.702
CRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
_ , , Fiji, Samoa, Great
and Ireland, and other places.
at Interest for
x A fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
MACDONALD,
HAMILTON f CO.
Managing Agents for
Australasian'United Steam Navigation C®i d .
Central Queensland Meat Export Co. Ltd. 1
Fitzroy Estates Ltd.
Blackheath Collieries Limited.
HEAD OFFICE : BRISBANE.
Shipping:, etc.
Caiudun-Austral&sian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
IHE 'ALL-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN PACIFIC
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES, GREAT LAKES.
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
SAILINGS TO VANCOUVER, VIA AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (FIJI) AND
HONOLULU.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
NEXT SAILING:
R.M.S. NIAGARA, JANUARY.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
SAILINGS TO SAN FRANCISCO, VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA
AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Hookings to Any Part of the United States. Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning: by Any Available Line.
EXCURSION to HONOLULU, o?«l“c e
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers.
SAILINGS ON APPLICATION.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing several days’ stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Reach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY—PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
f 1 or illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
tv;
ISLAND TOURS.
Now is (he Time to Visit the PACIFIC ISLANDS.
DELIGHTFUL TOURS to
NORFOLK ISLAND and NEW HEBRIDES.
SOLOMON ISLANDS.
PAPUA and RABAUL.
Trips of Four, Five and Seven Weeks’ Duration.
BURNS, PHILP $ CO. LTD,, 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Inability
Directors:
The Hon. Sir Charles It. Macltellar, It.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
F. B.- S. Falkiner, Esq., M.H.R.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Auditors : S. E. Laidley, Esq. ; A. G. Milson, Esq.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
General Manager: Sir John Russell French, 1i.8.E.
George Street, Sydney. London Office— 39 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
336 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
of
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
fS? e an General Banking Business pr^cSTai
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Warminster (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cabl ®, remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to anv part of the world
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Minimum
Deposit
1/-
Saving's Bank Department
Branches, and over 2750 Agencies at
Post Offices in Australia, Papua, Solomon
islands, New Britain, and The Pacific,
Interest at o<y
per annum
up to £3OO
JAMES KELL, Deputy Governor
1918
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
DENISON MILLER, Governor
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Capital paid up
Reserve Fund
Reserve Capital
- £2,000.000
- £2,040,000
- £2,000,000
£6,040,000
Established 1834.
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Rater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thos. Hughes, M.L.C.
T. F. Knox, Esq.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Bankers— The Bank of England; The London County Westminster anu
Parr’s Bank Ltd.; The London Provincial and South-Western Bank Ltd.
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Shipping.
Sydney Inter-State
Sub-Committee.
Interstate Passenger
Sailings
(Circumstances Permitting).
FOR MELBOURNE.
Huddart Parker L|m
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND. —Regular sail-
ings between Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand
ports and vice versa; particulars to be obtained on
application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA.—From Sydney to
ITobart and vice versa every three weeks. Between
Melbourne and Launceston three .sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; George Street, Sydney.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
.urge airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks,
ominodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
HIRT & CO. LTD., Svdney and Brisbane; MACDON-
VLD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITH,
Ml EACHAIIN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
11. JONES & CO. LTD., Hobart.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larlv to:—
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are iOued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Munvillumbab,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 11s.; second-class rail and steerage on
steamer, £4 ss.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE. 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd,
Tours to Fiji.
THE FINE TWIN-SCREW STEAMER
“LEVUKA,” 6500 tons,
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
The “Levuka” is fitted with wireless and with
every modern convenience for the comfort of passen-
gers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 26
days, and from Sydney 18 days. Passengers desiring
a more extended tour can travel by S.S. “Amra,”
which connects at Suva.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street,
Melbourne, or Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
George hotel,
St. Kilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia...


INCREASED STRENGTH FROM
PHOSPHATE.
SPECIALIST TELLS HOW TO
DOUBLE STRENGTH AND
ENDURANCE.
A great authority on the subject of health,
strength and endurance, in explaining the
marked increase in strength and endurance
obtained from the use of the product known
among chemists as bitr o-phosphate, claims
it is due to its recognised nerve-building
properties. He says, and it must be admitted
that his logic is unanswerable, that, inas-
much as the muscles simply transmit power
derived from the nervous system, strong
nerves and a big reserve of nervous energy
are infinitely more important than big
muscles. Bitro-phosphate, not being a drug
or a stimulant, but a nerve-builder which sup-
plies direct to the brain and nerves the re-
quired phosphoric elements, was first pre-
scribed by physicians with marked success
in the treatment of neurasthenia, insomnia,
nervousness, debility and mental depression.
It was soon noticed, however, that, in addi-
tion to permanently relieving nervous dis-
orders, it also greatly increased strength and
endurance. The amount usually prescribed
is one 5-grain tablet with each meal, and, in
view of its comparative inexpensiveness,
those who wish to increase their strength
and endurance, as well as those who suffer
from nervous disorders, are strongly advised
to give it an immediate trial. — Apvt.
By Appointment to their
Excellencies
The Countess of Dudley,
Lady Denman, Lady
Chelmsford, The
Lady Edeline
Strickland.
m
Exclusive
Hats,
Kimonos,
Blouses,
Lingerie and
Novelties.
Street, Sydney.
Under
Royal
Warrant
To H.M.
George V
CHAMPAGNE
CHAMPACNt
Q»arlesHeidsic(K
Reims
gr
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
UV&
SV ®''
at xu
io -
SPSSsS&iy
%ss£i?sSt
cvdney
ll^SCr
tot. '&S&£tn neS
Sidney
Sydney
£»«SiSRt. v B
SSS*«**’
dn f at „genoV
and at a*
THE PRIDE OF FRANCE—
MOET CHANDON.
CHAMPAGNE VINTAGE 1906.
FESQ CSb CO. LIMITED, Sydney.
BOSTOCK’S—the Sign of a Good Shine-
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
The present being times for the practise of economy, no better preservative of
leather can be recommended than
Bostock’s Shoe. Dressings.
This well-known Shoe Polish possesses all the qualities for enhancing the wear of
footwear, keeping the leather soft, pliable and brilliant. Shoes regularly cleaned
with Bostock’s give added service.
Colors: Black, Brown, Dark Brown, Ox Blood and White. In Bottles and Tubes.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Bostock’s Violo Polishes, Ltd., Sydney
AWOMANS
LETTER
Mrs. Anzac, from foreign parts, has been
coming along in pretty solid batches, and
there are a few thousand more of these war
brides (mostly English) to tcllow. As one
of the Red Cross heads who met some of
them said : “They’re a healthy, rosy-cheeked
lot, and the babies look blooming after the
long voyage. But, not to put too much var-
nish on the subject, they’re more beefy and
solid than our girls, and when it comes to
feet and thereabouts —well, Mrs. Bullzac has
a remarkably fine grip of the earth. You
can look almost in vain for the slender
ankles of the high-steppiug Sydney girl.”
Melba’s concert last week was a gor-
geous success even for the best “draw” the
Australian booking offices know—it had been
billed as the Dame’s last song in Sydney for
years to come. When the plan was full the
Mark Tupleys resolved to chance it, and re-
newed acquaintance with the Town Hall’s
exterior decorations. Some of them scored—
a few who hadn’t booked were allowed in-
side the tabernacle..
The Dame sang even better than her wont.
There was genuine emotional quality in
such encores as “Annie Laurie,” and Tosti’s
“Good-bye” was a climax of perfect musical
mechanism, with something that sounded
like a sob behind it- The sudden illness of
her old friend .Tohi) gave us Melba in her
softest mood. With a piano only as accom-
paniment the Voice rang out full and clear
like the matin-song of a thrush.
Leila. Doubleday’s fiddle was a brilliant
aside. The Victorian girl caught the flame
of enthusiasm, and answered with kindling
fires not expected from her. Pianist de
Bourguignon, an accomplished Belgian who
served in the war, and accompanist W. G.
Burrell, completed the small concert party.
The v.r. mat was well furnished. Ex-
cellency Munro Ferguson and Lady Helen
and sub-Governor Davidson and his lady
(who came from Moss Vale for the event)
were in the sacred reserve. With them Lady
Doris Blackwood, who temporarily absconded
(but only to grace the A.D C. camp, just
behind) from the front selection. Melba’s
diamonds illuminated the platform.
Miss d’Erlanger, Lady Galway’s daughter,
who has been studying at Adelaide Uni., is
due in Sydney with mother. They’re off
to the other side. But a re-shufHe of the
v.r. cards gives Governor Galway another
12 months, probably, in the.grape State.
It lqolted full of innocence as it lay
on the tray, and how was Melba to know
that in either the chicken or the glass of
water lay all the elements of an inter-
nal revolution? With an unruffled
mind she partook of the sandwich and the
water: and went to bed —it was the day
after her big. Sydney concert. Three hours
later she felt as though she was the walls
of Babylon surrounded by the battering
rams of the enemy. For four days the
struggle raged; then with Peace restored
she began wondering if that chicken was
a Bolshevik holding his last mass meeting,
whether the water and the chicken were
settling a Prohibition argument, or if the
bird was a rooster with a hatred of the
Dame’s top notes, and the whole disturb-
ance • was merely the desire of the male
to crow over the female. Anyway, the
impolite fowl has not lessened Melba’s
affection for the birds of the air, and her
sole unsatisfied desire in leaving Sydney
is that no birdman has dropped from the
•clouds with an offer to fly her to London.
Country Week tennis at Double Bay
courts, had very mixed weather to begin
with, but the contestants kept on valiantly
even when a wild wind came out of the
west and almost took control of the courts.
Dr. Dartyy, R.A.N., a keen player, is back
in Sydney; Major Selmes, D 5.0., just
released from quarantine, had a whack at the
balls last week ; and Lieut. L. M. Howell
also showed up on the lawns from France.
Many sun-browned maids and matrons, in
white linen frocks, from the country, were
on and around the green. Miss Scott
(Narromine) and her sister, Miss Dowdell
and Miss Bragg showed some stylish racquet
work. Camden was represented by Mrs.
Steele and Miss Faulder. Miss Case (a
brilliant performer, who won the country
championship), Mrs. Clifton and Miss Con-
ran came from Lithgow for the fray. Manly
kept its end up with the special assistance
of Miss Ilalley.
The Parramatta Burnside Homes, the pet
hobby of James Burns, M.L C., had a couple
of new annexes added last week. Set in
a pastoral scene which scintillates within a
wreath of golden wattle in the early Spring,
these Homes for orphans of plaidie descent
have frequently been blessed by Governor-
General Fairguson. On Saturday, while the
mercury showed a shade temperature of 104
deg., his Ex. made some complimentary and
thoughtful remarks in opening the addi-
tiqns. Dr. and Mrs. Robertson were re-
sponsible for one section which bears a long
Gaelic inscription. Lady Helen spake the
formal word over the section given by Mrs.
E. M. MeGaw. Is it the same, child’s petti-
coat of which the cables spake a few years
ago? J. J. Virgo, the Y.M.C.A auc-
tioned a little woollen garment for £6O at
the Burnside party. Queen Mary made it.
On Jan 17 sailors and soldiers’ wives will
rally round Voluntary War Workers in the
Town Hall vestibule. The idea is to say
“Thank you” to those women whose useful
toil has not been thrust conspicuously under
the limelight. Lady Davidson, whose stir-
ring address to a huge meeting of soldiers’
wives centres a few months ago in the same
place made her a comrade in the movement,
comes to town for the gathering.
In Farmer’s
smoke-room a meet-
ing of John Lem-
mone s friends
passed a firm resolu-
lution “to do all in
their power to make
the Testimonial con-
cert [given by
Melba to her friend
John! a success.”
Within a few hours
the booking had
leapt up to record
figures
John, is Australia’s
best-loved musician.
For. one thing, he is
so entirely free from
the vanity and the irri-
tability which makes
many of the cult as easy to handle as pnckly-
pear. For over 20 years he Las been Melba’s
business adviser and Australian representa-
tive. And that's not a small thing. More,
he has been the tactful buffer between the
imperious and often impulsive singer and the
general public—and that’s not easy, either.
His illness, it is hoped, is only temporary.
But in future he will have to go slow, and
take more care of himself.
Melba, accompanied by Peggy Center,
visited the Old Gold and Silver Fund last
week and bought a pair of quaint Russian
chrysoprase lace-pins and a snuff-box. Melba
has the keen eye for snuff-boxes. No use
trying to palm off one made DAY. (during
the war) for a gem used by a Louis or a
Charles.
Mrs. Gallien, who was on her way to Bor-
neo to join her husband, Captain Gordon
Gallien, was amongst the passengers on the
beached Houtman, but was one of eight who
were lucky enough to get berths _on the
Montoro and at latest was in Darwin await-
ing transhipment. Mrs. Gallien writes that
everyone feels very sorry for Captain
Guidhuis, who is described as a broken man.
Major Paul Goldenstedt, whose engage-
ment to a Westralian nurse is announced,
was doing pars. and rounds for the
Bathurst Times when _ war arrived. But
the fighting fever got him and he couldn’t
spare time for such trivialities as “copy.”
Hourly, he would take advantage of the
crow T d gathering for any of the afternoon
editions that the small sheet got into the
habit of running out, and distribute enlist-
ment forms in opposition. Inside a week
he had within an ace of 300 names. He was
probably the first man to suggest the route-
march >dea, having put it up to the clamor-
ing outside-the-offiee crowd when they wanted
to know who was going to pay fares to Syd-
ney.
Captain Bill Graham, M.C., of the
artillery, will bring home an English bride.
She’s Dorothy Ashe, of Nuneaton, where
father is the Anglican vicar.
Mrs. Mitchell-Thomson —she used to be
Madeline McEacharn and is a daughter of
the late shipping magnate Malcolm —will
have to get new visiting-cards- The death
of her father-in-law, Sir Mitchell-Thomson,
Bart (he was the first to get the title)
gives her husband the handle. The new Bart,
is a Unionist M.P. for North Down who
dabbles in literature. His travel-yarns con-
cern Manchuria, Siberia and the West In-
dies.
An Australian who found himself at
Stratford-on-Avon on Armistice Day was
Private T. G. Richmond, bellringer at St.
Mark’s, Darling Point, before the drums
began to beat. On leave, he chanced to
wander through Shakspeare’s hamlet and
was forthwith taken to Holy Trinity by
an Australian war-work?r, Mrs Galbraith,
who was helping the local Y.M.C A. at
the time. They were part of a big pro-
cession, and they chose the Aussie to ring
in peace in one of England’s most historic
villages.
Tails are in, but you are net recommended
to hang to the nearest bough, ’possum
fashion, by the soft silky appendages of 1919.
Lady Helen, in dawn o’ day pink satin the
other evening, had enough of the drapery on
the floor to move with a swish. The hand-
some v.r. Davidson lady, in a pearl-tinted
evening shimmer, also wore some of her
dress on the ground. Tie tail was
cut off everything but the dressmaker’s bill
for several years. Now it is in, and the
winter ballroom will entangle the male boot.
Melba had only a stray sash-like drapery
end on her Jan. 7 concert gown—just long
enough to touch the platform. It was the
end of a perfect frock—diamonds and foamy
white net with a pink glow underneath.
From Brisbane :—•
Returned Anzacs don’t seem to have satisfied
their craving for taking risks, for military weddings
are all the rage. The last Anzac on whom Cupid
scored a hit was Corporal H. W. Brereton, one
of the original 9th, who surrendered to Cissy
Browne, a well-liked Sandgate girl. May Browne
and Rita Grant were attractive maids. The
bridegroom was pounced on at the church door,
and carried shoulder-high to the waiting motor-
car by a mob of lads in uniform.
John Reid, managing director of the Brisbane
branch of the J. C. Hutton Prop., died last
Saturday. He was entering the lift at the Brisbane
Club, was taken ill, and expired in a few minutes.
Outside his business proper he had' done good
national service as a council member of the
National Agricultural Association for 30 years.
Sister Dorothy Webb, with 3-J years’ service and
a Royal Red Cross to her credit, came home last
week. She was In France during all that time
with the exception of two very short leave periods.
She’s a daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Webb.
Over £BOOO has been raised for the Queensland
War Nurses Fund since hostilities began, and the
expenditure in connection therewith amounts to
£l9O. £5OOO is in the bank at fixed deposit,
£2389 is available for the upkeep of a War
Nurses’ Home (when one is established) and the
remainder has gone in the purchase of war certifi-
cates and a donation to the Nurses’ Equipment
Fund. All the committee asks now is that some-
one will lend or donate a home where sick or
tired nurses may rest.
John Meagher, M.L.C., the pillar of so
many Hibernian operations, leaves for the
Cold Country in March via U.S. Some of
the family goes with him as a safeguard.
Denis Sheridan, of the Harbor Trust, who
has been for two years with the Army Ser-
vice, returned last week, invalided. He
arrived in Blighty about a year ago with
double pneumonia* and the effects of it have
since kept him from having a look at the
long, long Front. A few weeks after his
departure a son arrived from Storldand, and
was on hand to greet daddy.
David Barker, of the Anzac Book, now a
warrant-officer, who cfid his bit first as a
stretcher-bearer on Anzac, and later with
the Indian forces in Mesopotamia, is due
home in a week or so. For the last year or
more he has been on loan to the Egyptian
Government, attached to the Photo Section,
in Cairo and thereabouts, art-editing the
Kia-Ora Coo-ee in his spare, moments.
For many years the slender form of Laur-
ance Phillip was familiar at the pianoforte
keyboard at big con-
certs in Sydney.
Then failing health
made him less fre-
quently seen on the
platform, forcing
him back to the
quieter round of
teaching. He gave
his services freely
for any lame-dog
affair, and his last
appearance in the
city was in the Con-
servatorium, when
music rippled off
the slender finger-
tips at a patriotic
entertainment. Of
the Jewish faith, he
was a feature of the
Synagogue musical service some years ago.
’Flu’ was the immediate cause of his death
} n g an Francisco on January 1. A fiancee,
w ho lends this photo, was going later on to
ma rry the artist, in California, but that
dream is over.
When P ianis t Henry Penn, of Sydney
Conservatorium teaching staff, begins work
again there will be a Mrs. Penn to pour out
b j g tea , wag marr ied in Melbourne
ear i y j n t be Christmas holidays to Nellie
]\/[ c X)ennott, a musical St. Kilda girl. Penn’s
i nky j ooks g rst waved in Australian halls
w hen the Belgian musicians came this way.
Roland Foster, of the Conservatorium.
took a wife (Miss Cummins, well known in
musical teaching circles) during the holiday
season. The pair will go on a business jaunt
to the other side in March. While in Lon-
don Mr. Foster hopes to clinch negotiations
for placing two of his best pupils, Gladys
Verona and Rosa Alba —both songlvrds of
unusual promise—in good engagements.
Thank Heaven Billjim didn’t find it neces-
sary to camouflage himself when he went
to Europe looking for engagements. And he
couldn’t have been a greater popular suc-
cess if he had called hirciself Guglielmo
Diega.
The Citizens’ party to the Anzacs —how
that word creeps back, though among the
men themselves . it’s not popular!—was by
ferry to the Avenue, Lane Cove, in Satur-
day’s blaze. The Avenue, an arid flat lapped
by the cool river, has sheltering trees on
the rise behind, and therefore reasonably
lives up to its beguiling name. Sports, danc-
ing, and a tug-of-war, with Brigadier Alex.
Jobson to lend his aid, made the company
warm enough to drink flagons of soft stuff.
Lulu Boyce, one of Neutral Bay’s dainti-
est maidens, has accepted a diamond or two
from Ronald Hall. He’s a Digger who in
pre-Gallipoli days grew wool.
Baritone Filippini, of the Gonsalez Opera
Co. (deceased), is apparently taking root
in this old town. He’s teaching singing
in the Italian manner. During the holidays
he had a wedding and asked Nance McFar-
land, a local girl, to help him.
Sister Pike, who left us a couple of
years ago, returned last week as the wife
of Lieut. Laflin, whom she married while
at the St. Albans convalescent home, in
London. •
The learned Lousia Macdonald, M A., for
close on 27 years chiefrainess of the
Women’s College within the Sydney ’Var-
sity, has sent in her resignation. She’s
almost due to retii’e. After a long and
strenuous charge of the bluestockings, she
merely waits for the councJ to choose her
successor.
The present Marquess Conyngham is mar-
ried to an Australian girl, Betty Tobin. He
was for a time m the North Irish Horse,
and recently succeeded the old Marquess,
who went west with pneumonia.
Miss Fox, whose tireless : enthusiasm for
work as lion.' matron at Rose Hall will not
be forgotten by many a grateful Billjim, is
holidaying with relatives, at Moruya. When
the Red Cross brought in the edict that
only trained nurses could be inatrons of con-
valescent homes, Miss Fok and Mrs. A. J.
Hare (Woolwich Home), two of the most
able honorary workers, who ran their heal-
ing havens on velvet tyres, had to retire.
It was a heartbreak to them, and Bill lost
two mothers.


1 : '
■
5
i •. \
II
-T!S
--w"***
H
1
r \
V, .
m
m
m
fl tin
i
■
; -•
MBMMMH
.
™M™fPPff|
-nr/ '■-/$ '<i»>«ws»A •»* «#*» .'•■->- _- - *j *< -• ■ ■»■
@&2fflSSB3£BsS2£sgsi&33& &££&&£ ■. -
1
m
■ r«
- ' -A,''
n
■
I ■
■i m u
m
• - m - i
a
L .■!>' .
am
.
mim-
git §i» ja| 1 Hhl
all mSSSBKtm. JMH|K
F\\
' 'y* "
I
#■
THE above illustration shows a Beale
sound-board being planed in one
operation upon a 36-inch planer. This
wonderful machine at the same time tapers
it from thick in the treble to thin in the
•bass —a necessary feature for the production
of good tone. Beale sound-boards are'made
of hand-selected, straight-grained white pine.
They are built up from small boards, carefully
joined edge to edge: "a * grain being used
in the bass,*gradually becoming finer toward the
treble end. The ribs are straight-grained hr, and
are of a special form which keeps the sounding-
board in the convex shape necessary to good
tone production. Each board is protected back
and front with several coats of our own special
varnish. The better musician you are, the more
you will appreciate the Beale.
STacyvsnroorrxs,:
sviMsrJerir.
G
41-4:7. \S 1".
*
£) C?
Branches at Bathurst, Orange, Lismore, Newcastle, Goulburn, Wagga. VICTORIA: Maples, in all
Melbourne suburbs. TASMANIA: Williams Bros., Hobart; Maples, Launceston. SOUTH AUSTRALIA. John Evans Ltd.,
Adelaide. QUEENSLAND: 90-92 Queen Street, Brisbane; Kent Street, Maryborough j Flinders Street, Townsville ; Rockhampton
Sydney Street, Mackay; Cairns. WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Thomsons Ltd., at Perth, Kalgoorlie and Freemantle.


Sporting jLife
•in
T oKac'c o
and “ Victoria Hi
ouse
B
riar
Pi
ipea-
ORI. Sporting Life ” Tobacco, high grade cut gold bars, specially prepared
for Farmer’s from finest Virginia Leaf. Per ounce, 7d.; l A lb., 4/6 , per lb., 9/•
OR2 to 6. —" Victoria House ’’ Briars, London made, sterling silver mounts,
vulcanite nush mouth-pieces, 16 shapes. Price ... 4/6
OR2 to 4.-"Good-
wood” Pipes, best
French briar, heavy
silver mounts, vuL
mouth-pieces.
Price 7/6
6. " Good -
” Pipes • 8/6
081
WM
o*3
ao
>ao
2<JO
SPANISH INFLUENZA.
All medical men recommend a searching antiseptic, and
NAZETHA
fulfils this requirement. Obtainable from all chemists for 1/6, and no
one should fail to protect themselves at this time of epidemic.
NAZETHA
The Great Cold Cure in the Little Bottle.
A. P. Miller & Son, Chemists, HobfXtt*
7 [i
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Boarding-liouses of rubber, guaranteed to
expand to twice their normal size without
an explosion, will have to be adopted to
meet the congestion in holiday resorts. At
present, life in the seaside dens would make
a tinned sardine roar lustily for a Housing
Commission. The other night this chatterer
sat down in the gloom of the verandah of
her temporary residence, when the seat arose
in a blanket and hissed “Damn you, you
might let a fellow get a wink of sleep.” A
neighbor’s great hairdressing turn had made
her elbows recognise the size of the micro-
scopic room, and she was anointing her
raw angles with lanoline, though she had
nothing to quell her indignation. Meal-
times provided even less liberty of action,
and we were wedged in around the groan-
ing board uncertain that our chop was not
the chop next door. One day somebody
had the temerity to complain to the
marchioness who ran the place for a little
more room all round. She peevishly re-
plied that her house was unoccupied for
seven or eight months each year and she
had only the remaining time to “reap her
harvest.” “Reap her harvest” was good.
We were the dirt which produced the
golden grain.
Sassiety, a little brown about the face and
arms, is drifting up from the seaside and
the old tearoom-parties are beginning again.
Mrs. Pannifex and Mrs. A. Richardson roped
off an arm of the Oriental Hotel lounge on
Friday and entertained about 100 beautiful
summer hats and frocks. Sister Mrs. Teddy
Muir brought an unimpaired complexion
with her and roused the envy of the crowd
by wearing pale pink. She explained that
she had dodged sunburn by taking her dip
at five o’clock every morning.
Mrs. Billy Falkiner turned Fairholme up-
side down last week for a big farewell party
to the popular Dot Hidgeock, now Mrs. Gill.
Dorothy’s mother has stayed away from thfe
Murrumbidgee sheepery for a string of Dot’s
farewell parties. At Mrs. Falkiner’s revel
the ballroom was turned into a music-room.
The hostess, in lobelia-blue foulard, cooled
her summery guests with pink ices.
Pianist Cahill will arrive in Melbourne
from Bananaland early in February. Some
observer has discovered that Cahill owns
the smallest hands of any known adult
pianist.
Myra Lumsden has said “Yes” to Stanley
Tomkins, who is art master at the Swin-
burne Technical College, and hails from
Ballarat. Myra is one of the pretty daugh-
ters of Alf Lumsden.
The engagement is just proclaimed of Lieut.
Bolton and Eileen Fitzgerald. The fiancee
is the dainty little daughter of Tom Fitz-
gerald, the popular clubman and golfer, of
Tooradin. Bolton is an Englishman who
was known about the swaggah Melbourne
clubs before the war. He did his bit from
1914, and is back with the furloughed Anzacs.
He was wounded at Gallipoli and gained
his commission in France.
Baronet Rupert Clarke has a grand-
daughter now. The young woman arrived
at daughter Phyllis Power’s London address
a month or so back. Reggie Power, who
served in Salonika, got back to his native
Melbourne in December with a badly-injured
leg. He goes to England sometime soon to
bring the missus home.
Som# time ago a Minister who wouldn’t
be noticed in a crowd acquired a handsome
young secretary who could have played
juvenile lead in any dramatic co. The
first time the Minister went on tour the
station-master at Back o’ Sunset seized the
secretary’s bag and hurried along the plat-
form with it, while the Minister for Fire-
works staggered along behind with his own
luggage. It was a good joke at first; but
when the same thing happened at Ghost
Ridge, Jumbuek Plains and 20 other
places, the Minister lost patience. The end
came at Wild Dog Gully, where a bloke
of the township approached the Minister
with, “ ’Ere, you come down with th’
Minister ter-day, didn’t yer? I wanter see
’im.” “I am the Minister.” was the reply.
The man of Wild Dog Gully looked at him
incredulously and spat on the ground. “Ah,
rats!” he said. Shortly afterwards the
secretary was transferred to a less public
job in another department..
Major Watt, one of the new military
0.8.E.’s —please note the qualification —
married Muriel Hartley W illiams, of Mel-
bourne, a daughter of the Judge. In a re-
shuffle she espoused an English colonel
named Lawford. Lawford proved a success
as a fighting man, and he is now a profusely
decorated General and a knight. She is
looking somewhat florid these days, but still
constitutes a good advt. for those photo-
graphers who can get her to sit for them.
Large pictures of herself and the General
were features in the Knightsbridge window
of Barnett, the ex-Australian, recently.
Talking of London, it is said to be abso-
lutely creeping with moneyed Victorians.
Mrs. “Jack” Brooks has been there for a
long time now. Lieut. Jim Burns, of Parra-
matta, is a half-brother of hers, and he
found it handy when he got wounded the
other day, and ended up in Wandsworth
Hospital.
The numerous Chirnside family seems
to have shifted to the other side en bloc,
as our fascinating Allies have it. Audrey
Chirnside (as was) is there with her steeple-
chasing, Yeomanry husband Harold Pape.
Gladys Chirnside, of the large and dazzling
blue eyes, is seen about a lot, and so was the
Captain Chirnside who has been General
Birdwood’s faithful A.D.C. for so many
years. Captain Chirnside had an odd sort
of job when Birdie went visiting battalions
and batteries in the line. He bore in his
arms a mass of illustrated London papers
and dealt them out to the Diggers. Birdie
hated to visit a unit without a good stock
of literature, and the only one he really
trusted to efficiently distribute the priceless
stuff was Chirnside.
The Austral Salon
is now 29 years old
and the senior
women’s club in
Australia. It has
labored faithfully all
those years with a
cup of coffee in one
hand and a slice of
cake in the other.
The quarters in
which it lived for so
long were con-
demned, but its aims
have never been im-
pugned. So it
flourishes again in
Elizabeth-street, near
unfashionable Little
Bourke-street. All
the Salon gods were
placed carefully in the same order as in the
old rooms. Mrs. Quinnell, here pictured, has
been secretary for 14 years. She is the
widow of an Indian Army medical-officer,
Colonel It. J. Quinnell. With her has been
associated all along, as treasurer, Mrs.
Horatio Webb, and their combined efforts
have kept the coffee-urn going.
Colonel Cohen is coming home. Like most
persons named Cohen he is outrageously
affluent. For the past three years he has had
charge of the 6th (Artillery) Brigade, and,
though the authorities persistently omitted
to make him a General, he did good work
with it and repeatedly harassed the unspeak-
able Hun to the verge of frenzy. He has a
C.M.G. and a D. 5.0., and with luck he
should be entitled to write even more of the
alphabet after his name before the Pearce is
signed.
A muddled sort of cable came from N’York
on Tuesday to the effect that “a sum of
£400,000, held in trust by the Morgan Co., is
to be divided among the servants of the late
Mr. Yuill’s daughter, the Countess Port-
arlington-Lethbridge.” The Lethbridge is. a
superfluity. George Yuill’s only child, Win-
nie, married Lord Portarlington 10 years
ago, and she is still the bearer of his name.
The Earl is a stout person in the early
forties who has not seen over-much . service
in France. It was no fault of his; but
maybe he didn’t worry. “Bombs and things
ruin the shape of one’s clothes,” he re-
marked; and, anyhow, the scenery over
there is dreadful.
Artie Staughton, who went to India to
buy army remounts, has been ill in England
for weeks, but is now convalescent and will
presently start for Australia.
The Hunter Landales’ Riverina homestead
has been burnt to the ground and all the
contents tvith it. Hartwood, which originally
belonged to the late Richard Blackwood, was
one of the best humpies in the district.
Adelaide observations and discoveries: —
Amongst latest Royal Red Cross winners is Sister
Grace Burns, daughter of the quiet Scotchman who
lias filled the Register's chair while William
Sowden has been on tour. Her good work won her
a mention in despatches in the far-off days when the
wounded from tl:e Landing were being brought to
Egypt.
A necklet of diamonds set in platinum, With an
exquisite black opal pendant, has been given to the
Galway lady as a parting present. Her good-byes
were to have been said at the end of December, but
the postponement of the sailing of the Niagara gave
her a fortnight’s grace, and she and Miss d Erlanger
deferred their departure till Monday. The last few
days have been put in quietly at Marble Hill.
Chaplain G. P. Cuttriss, who has published a little
book of experiences in France with the 3rd Division,
returned on Sunday. He was in the S’African
trouble as a combatant Maorilandei.
Mrs. T. Ainslie Caterer, wife of the acting-
headmaster of St. Peter’s College, died on Sunday.
She had been ill for a long time.
Col. H. A. Powell has returned after an absence
that dates from October, 1914. He was second in
command of the No. 1 Stationary Hospital, and got
his first “mention” when the Turks attacked at Ismailia
and Serapeum in February, 1915. Two other “men-
tions” came while he was at Lemnos and in France,
and a C.M.G. followed. The No. 1 Stationary Hos-
pital subsequently became the Third Auxiliary Hos-
pital at Dartford, and then the 2nd Australian Gen-
eral Hospital near Boulogue, where the staif —doc-
tors, nurses and orderlies —were Australians. Before
he sailed for Australia . Col. Powell put in some
weeks studying the after-treatment of wounded in
England, with a view to future work here. He
brings back enthusiastic accsunts of the work done
by Lieut.-Col. H. S. Newland, also one of the
original members of the No. 1 Stationary Hospital.
Newland is at the Face Hospital at Sidcup, Kent,
where badly-wounded men are being fitted with new
noses and jawbones.
Pianist Laurance Phillip, who died from ’flu’ in
California, was a nephew of the Otto Schomburgks,
and gave a recital at their house in aid of Red Cross
Funds when he was here last winter.
The death of Mrs. Archibald will leave the Federal
member for Hindmarsh a lonely man. She took a
keen interest in his work and often journeyed to and
from Melbourne with him when the House was sit-
ting. Mrs. Archibald was one of the few women
from this State who went to London with the Parlia-
mentary party at the time of George’s coronation.
Miss Johnson has booked her passage to London in
a February boat. She is to be married there to Bob
Rees of Dalgety’s London office.
A ripple of joy was caused in the Adelaide Police
Court 'this week when a lady gave her name as
Atlantic Ocean May Jones. It’s pleasant to hear
during a heat-wave.
On Armistice Night, when all the fog-
horns and steam sirens of Hobart were
blowing off, and all the brass bands and
fife bands, and tin-can bands, and bagpipes
were noisily parading the highways, the
Salvation Army band (brass) slip'ped along
a quiet street to his Majesty’s gaol, and
close beneath the shadow of the grim wall
played with soulful plaintiveness “Are You
Coming Home To-night?” Thoughtful!
Gordon Chirnside and Mavis Thiel are. to
be made one on January 31. The wedding
will be an evening affair at Scots’ Church,
Collins-street. Bettie O’Hara and Beryl
Fitts are to be bridesmaids.
Nellie McDermott, the St. Kilda violinist,
the other day promised to play second fiddle
for life to Professor Henri Penn, the Bel-
gian pianist, who is attached to the staff of
Sydney Conservatorium. Flautist Johnny
Amadio was best man, and after the ceremony
at St. Pat.’s, there was a gay wedding-
supper at Wickliffe House.
From Blighty comes news of the marriage
of George Arthur, of the well-known
Ballarat family, with a daughter of the
late Bennett Burleigh, war correspondent.
Before the war young Arthur was with
Gordon and Gofch. In France he supervised
the organisation of the Y.M.C.A. field
service, and was given the honorary rank of
major.
Many a Billjim
has blessed the
Dental Corps. In
other wars the sol-
diers nursed their
toothache along with
other woes. Lieut.-
Colonel Hall was
organiser-in-chief for
all the military
fangs of Australia.
He was an old
militia officer, and
ranked high in his
profession. It was
found that 90 per
cent, of the soldiers
needed dental treat-
ment, and to keep
up the tooth-stand-
ard about 150 dental
officers were sent from Australia to England.
France and Egypt. They were a fine lot of
well-trained experts. In Australia, dental
officers w’ere established in every State
under a major. Major Bill Aitken looked
after Victoria. In two years 40,000 sol-
diers were made dentally, fit before embarka-
tion. This photo of the Lieut.-Colonel was
taken by Alice Mills.
Dr. R. E. Weigall, president of the Auto-
mobile Club, has put up a neat war record
of his own. With his car he has thus far
met every boat that has returned from over-
seas with soldiers aboard, an example that
has had an excellent effect in keeping other
club-members busy.
Trippers to England are advised not to
take dear Fido with them these times. Hydro-
phobia, epidemic thus early in the European
year, is regarded as certain to rage furiously
in the “dog days” of June and July. Aus-
tralia and M.L. are closed against British
bow-wows for an indefinite period, and even
though dogs from here are admissible to deah
old London, they can’t be taken for a walk
without a chain. It isn’t even safe for
Fido to frisk for joy. A policeman is always
likely to mistake doggie’s frivolities for
rabies, and rain baton blows upon his curly
head.
Major J. K. Mountain, an Australian engi-
neer, is now second-in-command at Regent s
Park Air Depot, London. He’s the only
son of Adrian Mountain, who used to be
surveyor to the Melbourne City Council, but
retired some. years ago and went to live in
his rural eyrie alongside the lovely Sher-
brooke Falls, at the back of Mount Dande-
nong.
Dr. Jack Gordon, D. 5.0., is coming home
from the wars. He practised in Fitzroy be-
fore he put on khaki. Lately he has been at
Southall, where poor old Billjim goes, as a
rule, when he has lost a few limbs. Its
quite handy to Windsor. The boys from
there often drop in on George for a fag.
When Vivian Sleep went under to ’flu’ in
Egypt the other day, Australia lost a sol-
dier who had been right through two wars—
the S’African disturbance and the one now
having its edges trimmed off. Sleep, before
joining up with the A.I.F. in 11)14, was a
grazier at Longwarry, and had a pre-war
commission in the 13th Light Horse. He
saw the war through as a private, however.
His father, now a very old citizen, is Lieut.-
Colonel John Sleep, who was pioneer 0.1 .
of the ancient Ballarat Infantry nearly four
decades ago.
An Australian officer just home tells of
London as he left it: —
A dance in London is not the ordered affair that it
used to be. In fact, it approximates closely to a
revel. Four niggers may supply the music. No one
actually dances. There isn’t room, for one thing.
And, anyhow, it. isn’t the fashion, The outcast who
starts doing tango steps, or anything of that pre-
historic description, is looked at so coldly that his
(or her) feet freeze, and the performance conse-
quently comes to an end. The dancers simply walk
round in each other’s arms, sometimes with the
music, more often against it. At intervals one of
the niggers bursts into song, or deraches himself
from his colleagues and executes a fandango on his
own. The principal course on the supper menu is
invariably champagne. There is little butter and
no eatable bread, but the habitual champagne-chewer
can indulge in his pastime all night if he likes, and
even then there will be lots over.
With Melba off to Europe and prophesy-
ing that it will be more than three years
before she returns, her Honolulu “discovery.
Peggy Center, has also taken wing and de-
parted for her home island. Peggy was a
member of the well-advertised singing class
started by Melba at the Albert-street Con-
servatorium in one of her enthusiastic
moments.
Melba invited' friends to a musicale on
a recent afternoon at the new Orehestrola
rooms in Collins-street. Two Anzacs named
Williams (not related, by the way) are
partners in the Orehestrola Co. One of them
has developed a machine devoid of rumble
and scratch; it is almost entirely Austra-
lian. and Australian woods are used to
enclose the gear. Frank Williams, the
other Anzac, an Adelaide boy, decorated the
rooms in an original way. There are big
lounges from which to gaze at painted wall
drapings. The decorator managed to get
some 400-years-old Italian wall plaques that
take some looking into. The room was
dressed in nasturtiums in flat green jade
vases. The lights are amber-shaded and the
glare of Collins-street is shut out by striped
green blinds. Dame Nellie, in a plaid suit
and a shady black hat, made an encouraging
speech.
Jimmy McDonald, who, before donning
khaki, was a popular figure in artistic
Bohemia, is back in Melbourne. He took
part in the Landing and was wounded in
the middle distance. Afterwards he served
in France as camouflage artist, until his
health broke down as the result of wounds.
John Longstaff, in London, is busy on a
portrait of General Monash Australia’s war
chief. Another Longstaff has done various
fine war records, including a picture with
tears and glory in it—a view of all there’s
left of the Church of Villers Bretonneux.
That’s the hamlet where the Australians
did probably their very biggest thing—one
of the very biggest things of the war. lon
remember how they checked the till-then
invincible army which was rushing on
Amiens? From the hour of that check the
war situation changed and the Allies never
turned back. Second Division Headquarters
chose a reproduction of Longstaff’s “Villers
Bretonneux” for a card to carry their Christ-
mas greetings home.
Julius Grant, partner of Bert Bailey, has
just lost his mother, who was in her 80th
year. She came to Australia with her father
and mother when 16, and the family settled
on the Loddon.


Born 1820
—still going strong
,J TAp
1 'iii iii
0
\
\ /
M
v j/ i i/r
(&u i mt2^
*</
y
"IM
%%
» <■•»
tj
&
U<-
A
«n
\
M.W
<r
N
<2
v*v/
»
m
#
2
7
Si
S*
7
7
/
|co (5^
0
/
v*V
VS
12
/
VS
1
*e
$F
x^:
t,
m
\
/
«s
/sis
y/s
7.
Johnnie Walker : ‘ A prophet is without honour in his own country/*
Amateur Strategist : “ Nonsense! I prophesied your success years ago
and see how everyone now agrees with me.”
If you pay a good price you should get a guarantee.
Johnnie Walker “ Red Label ” is guaranteed by tne name on the
label and the Non-refillable Bottles in which it is put up.
It is quality protected.
JOHN WALKER & SONS, Ltd., Scotch Whisky Distillers, KILMARNOCK, Scotland.


The conflicting elements in Berlin make
the task of the Peace Conference all the more
difficult. Therefore sound wisdom and dis-
cretion will no doubt be found on the table,
and its label will be King George IV., the
whisky of the wise.— Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special Whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redlern, Sydney.
Goldfinder Soap
LEWIS & WMITTY MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
Missinsr Friends.
AMELIA GILLESPIE. last heard of
about 1889, then about to get married.
Brother inquires. Information Bulletin
Office.
CAPILLARINE
4
Grows
Moustaches
Quickly!
Hundreds who have used it testify to its
genuineness and efficacy as a moustache-
grower. Rub it well into the roots, and note
its quick results. Send for a Jar to-day.
PRICE 10/6 JAR —POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
9 m
9
3EO
fssag
iW!
ss
■s • ■
*K£
World
Famed
HATS
are foremost
Light, yet
durable,
and of ex-
cellent value
SPORTING
NOTIONS
An impudent monopoly was aimed at and
to a certain extent achieved, in Sydney, the other
day. After the recent yearling sales the Big
Breeders formed themselves into an Association. To
be eligible you had to have not less than five mares
pastured in N. S. Wales, and an average of not less
than seven yearlings during the past three years.
In connivance with the salesmen they ruled that
only their yearlings should be sold during race
weeks--the only time, of course, when all these who
buy yearlings are on the spot. The Small Breeders
bucked—and so violently withal that the “N.S.W.
Breeders’ Association” thought it politic to suggest a
conference. The two associations have now amalga-
mated, and they have the nerve to say that, in
future, no yearling bred outside N. S. Wales shall
be sold during race weeks. Under the original
conspiracy the breeders' of such champions as
Cetigne—one of the best up to 1} mile in Australia
—and Kennaquhair—easily “the greatest stayer we
have—would have been excluded. (Cetigne’s owner
only has one. and Kennaquhair’s two mares.) The
breeders of the following winners since last August
are still barred: Arch Marella, Gloaming, Rebus,
Aries, King Offa, Nightwateh, Irish Princess, Alms-
giver, Estland and Killowen —animals that have
already taken between them 22 big races.
* * * *
S. M. Herald (7/1/T9) remarks: “With
plenty of public form to guide him, the handi-
capper has distributed the weights of the A.J.O.
Anniversay Meeting with an even hand.” Well,
here are some samples. Arch Marella, who beat
Bee in the Summer Gup by a nose, meets the
latter on 51b. worse terms in the Anniversary.
But Wedding Day, who beat Bee ten lengths in
Tattersall’s Cup, has to give her only 61b. in
the Anniversary! For winning a Trial Handicap
at Randwick, and for just defeating Quaestor (who
was giving him 101 b.) at Rosehill, Booster is made
out to be as good as Bee. First Lesson is handi-
capped as better than Eastcourt, who won with Bst.
21b. up at Flemington.
* * * #
Greg’s 7st. 71b. in the Anniversary defeats
Comment and leaves Comparison gasping down the
course. About the soundest criticism of it is the
fact that this animal brought 1625 guineas at
auction immediately after the appearance of the
weights. Imagination staggers at the thought of
what Satin Bird would bring at auction just now.
He has an Epsom to his credit. He wdn twice
at the last Randwick meeting, carrying 181 b. above
the limit in the Welter and beating Anotto (who
won next day) ; and he followed that up by
beating Ardrossan —also a winner at this meeting.
In the Anniversary he is bracketed with Greg.
* * * *
Jumpers, like poets, drunks, etc., are born,
not made. Look at .Tack Rice for instance. As
a flat-racer he was useless, however low the weight.
Tried over the sticks he proved one of the best
hurdlers seen in Australia. He remained as in-
different as ever in the run home after the last
fence. The quality that enabled him to win
hurdle races carrying up to 13st. 121 b. was the
natural and effortless manner in which he jumped.
Graphone is of the same class, and one of the very
best in consequence. Pilot, Bay Eagle, Grafnell
and a score more won most of their races over,
as distinguished from between, the fences. In
fact, they jumped so fast and easily that it is
doubtful if they could have negotiated the journey
more quickly if the obstacles had not been there.
* * * *
“D.”: The Bulletin (9/1/T9) remarks
veraciously that “the horse of Australian parentage
is rapidly becoming a curiosity at Randwick.”
What is the explanation ? For my part I ascribe
it to fashion sheer damphoplish fashion. There
was never anything: wrong with the locally-bred
sire. For example, Trenton and Wallace —who inci-
dentally got Trafalgar, about the best horse
“imp.” or otherwise, that Australia has seen in the
last ten years. The theory that two-year old racing
has a pernicious effect on the embryo Australian
6ire doesn’t impress me so much. Carbine raced
as a two-year old. It didn’t affect him in his
subsequent career on the track, and in England he
sired Spearmint, a Derby winner and a champion
too. Mountain King, who is still getting winners,
raced as a two-year-old, and Trenton won the
Welcome Stakes in Auckland (M.L.) at that age.
Just as a number of misguided lads about town
have taken to the chewing-gum habit and the
pork-pie hat of the Bowery, so a majority of our
big owners have concentrated for years past on
imported sires, and with no more justification.
What is worse, they have concentrated on the
same sort of sire. Every recently imported horse
of note has been a St. Simon, with the result that
the country is being drenched with this particular
blood. It is a good enough strain, but Australia
already has too much of it.
* * * *
The best horseman killed in the war, pro-
bably, died only a few days before it ended —-
Fred Rickaby, the English jockey, and son of
another famous jockey of the same name. Young
Fred had a remarkable record in the Oaks. He
won it in 1913. 1915, 1916 and 1917, and,
was on the second in 1914.
* * * *
There is a dearth of good horsemen in
Australia. Across country there is no one in the
same class as the old-timers: Boyd, "of Melbourne,
and Mooney are probably the best of an indifferent
lot. On the flat there is but one front-ranker —
McLachlan. McLachlan is good over all distances.
He is keen away from the barrier in sprints. He
has judgment in long races, and he can finish. In
fact, lie is in or near the category of past masters
like Hales, O’Brien and Kelso. Some of the likeliest
boys of three and four years back went to the war,
and many of them will never return.
* * *
J. Timing's trainer, Kidman, went over-
land to Perth from Melbourne with Clever Jim, High
Tension and Dim Laddie. It was the first batch of
thoroughbreds to use the Great Western Railway.
The enterprise wasn’t a success. The horses were so
knocked out, as a matter of fact, that they didn’t
race at the Perth meeting after Derby Day.
* * * *
The trouble over the misplacing of Sydney
Damsel in the Villiers Stakes reached finality with
the complete stultification of the A.J.C. Committee.
The judge placed Panacre (who ran ninth) third and
Svdney Damsel (who ran third) nowhere.- The
tote paid over Panacre, and after long consideration
the A.J.C. decided to pay Sydney Damsel —in the
case of any backer who happened to have kept the
ticket. According to the A.J.C. rules, “the judge’s
decision is final,” and so we here have the interesting
situation of the Club’s governing body being the
first to violate the Club’s own rules. But the point
of real public interest is in the fact that the mis-
take should ever have been made. The A.J.C. pays
three stipendiary stewards to observe the racing,
and, in addition, it has three honorary _ stewards
(committeemen) on the same job. The judge has
an assistant with him in his box to observe the
placed horses, the judge’s proper concern being with
the winner alone. Yet with all this horde of watchers
the mistake was made and persisted in. The same
bevy of experts who placed a horse that bad run
ninth, under their very noses, so to speak, have the
power to disqualify an owner, trainer, jockey or
horse for something that has happened or that they
think has happened, on the other side of the
course, half a mile or more away. Surely there is
something wrong with such an arrangement. The
mistake in question, by the way, has stood the
A.J.C. in over £lBOO.
* * * *
About the slipperiest thing in diminutive
horseflesh to-day is the 14.1 pony Star Queen, by the
American sire Leonidas. This two-year-old fled out
of the barrier at such a rate at her first attempt
that the heads gasped. She then ran right off. The
following week she went mad again. Since then
her manners have had attention and she has done
well. Star Queen is in the same stable as Bronzite,
than which nothing better has been seen out on un-
registered courses for years.
*** * ,
“Bill” Hill’s number went up last week.
He died at Rancliffe, Woollahra —previously the
home of another well-known Sydney racing man,
Theo Marks —aged 80 and looking a lot younger. He
raced as “W. Carleton,” and latterly had specialised
in imported prads, which, though good, were unlucky.
Gadabout, Rushford, Irritation and Gallipoli were the
best of them. Gadabout won once at Randwick and
ran third in last Melbourne Cup to Nightwateh and
Kennaquhair.
* * * *
’S. Donogbue is head of the English win-
ning-jockeys’ list for the fifth year in succession
with 66 wins out of 270 rides. Carslake, the
Melbourne rider, is second.
* * * *
Spencer Leigh Hughes, journalist and
member of the House of Commons (if he wasn’t
defeated in the recent elections), recalls a yarn
of G. J. Bonnor, the Australian XI player in
the ’eighties, in his book “Press, Platform and
Parliament,” just out. On one occasion, when
the XT was in England, Bonnor was a guest of
the Johnson Club and was asked to make a few
observations on the doctor. “He confessed.” says
Hughes, “with the manly simplicity that befits a
giant, that until that night he had never heard
of Dr. Johnson. Someone laughed or gasped and
Bonnor added, as if in reply, ‘Yes, and what is
more, I come from a great country where you
might ride a horse 60 miles a day for three
months and never meet anyone who had. But I
have heard of him now, and if I were not Bonnor
the cricketer I would be Samuel Johnson.’ ” By
the way, Australia House, in London —the Com-
monwealth’s headquarters—is a sort of neighbor of
the doctor’s now. It stands alongside the old church
where Johnson used to make the parson very
nervous (there is a brass-plate on the spot where
the doctor used to fidget) and a Johnson effigy is
the onlv one in front of the tabernacle.
* * * *
“Slip”: N. S. Wales’s crumble in the
inter-State match v. Victoria was due to the selec-
tion committee’s omission to search out a fast
bowler. Contrariwise Vic.’s victories over both N.
S. Wales and South Aus. were chiefly due to the
hurricane efforts of E. A. McDonald. In practice
alone the inclusion of Jack Scott (Middle Harbor)
would have helped the N. S. Wa’es team. He has
skittled 20 wickets, averaging 18.25 this season.
* * + * *
Sydney grade cricket season is only half
through and yet there are 21 three-figure efforts
on the books! It emphasises the poor bowling
which is a feature of N.S.W. cricket just now.
The Gregory-Kippax partnership for Waverley
against Central Cumberland (when 183 went up for
the third wicket) was an unusually lively affair —
just the sort of thing the public pays eagerly to
see. Warren Bardsley made his third century this
season, raising his aggregate to 639 and his average
to 91.28. J. Bogie (Varsity) alone has better
figures —654 runs, averaging 93.42. Both are left-
handers.
* * * *
B. L. McCoy has come to the surface
remarkably in the past two years. With Glades-
ville Hospital last season he scored 1605 runs,
averaging 74.42. This season he has walloped
1460, averaging 91.12. He did his bit in khaki
on the other side of the globe, and therefore is
among the eligibles for the A.I.F. XI in England.
* * * *
Vic.’s 102 for the last wicket against S.
Aus. last week is no record. On a previous
occasion, v. S. Aus., Vic. had scored 261 for nine
wickets. The total reached 472 before Ellis (118)
and Hastings (106) were separated. At the Carlton’s
Club pavilion there is a photograph of them standing
defiantly before a scoring-board emblazoning their
glorious effort.
The Ranfurly Shield —the chiefest bauble
of M.L. cricket—shifted quarters the other day when
Canterbury (which won it in 1914-15 and six times
in ten years) went down to Wellington by two
wickets. ' The occurrence was due chiefly to J. S.
Iliddlestone’s fine effort of eight wickets for 59 in
the first inrings.
* * * *
A man who takes his morning header regu-
larly at 6.45 splutters this from deep water: “Don’t
talk to me about the vanity of flappers ! It’s nothing
to the prancing conceit of the athletic old ass. The
regulars dive off when they see him coming, but
there is always a stranger to pass some admiring
remarks about the old boy’s high-stepping run along
the beach or his shadow-sparring in the gym., and
that starts him off on a loud, buzzing lecture on his
muscles and the way he keeps himself fit. He isn’t
comfortable until the morning mug comes along and
bites. While he talks he keeps swiping at the atmo-
sphere or slapping his chest so hard that
the seagulls can’t sleep. This is intended
to impress the shivering questioner, who is
losing his own quiet exercise and getting a chill
while he listens. The lecturer’s, snorts, slaps and
shouts echo and re-echo across the water and every-
body has to do a long dive or listen. He says he is
59 and infers that he expects to live another 100
years. Then he arranges his towel like an acrobat’s
mat, stands squarely on it and does a back-bend till
you think he is going to bite his heels or split down
the front. As most of the bathers are neighbors
they have to be polite; but a. visiting schoolboy
obliged with the necessary acid yesterday while the
old boy was doing a bit of feeble shadow-sparring
and hoping to Heaven someone was noticing him. The
lad stopped, looked and called out, ‘Knock off, dad!
It isn’t real —you only dreamt it!’ ”
* * * *
Private George Cunha, the Camp Lewis
(U.S.) swimming instructor, did 25 yards in 10
seconds at America Lake recently, which is two-
fifths of a second off his own world’s record. Cuhha,
it will be remembered, came to Australia with
Ifahanamoku.
* * * *
The handful of patriotic N. S. Wales
schoolteachers who make an annual hobby of teach-
ing children to swim put through over 5000 . last
year, and the estimate was that 80 per cent, of
girls and 70 per cent, of boys mastered the art. The
instructors expect to do even better this season.
Walter Bethel,, who originated the scheme, has been
swimming and teaching hard for over a quarter of a
century. He was among those who “found” Barney
Kieran.
* * * *
A brace of lightweight Chows, Rud Kee
and Taggie Young—met at the Haymarket (Sydney)
Hippodrome last week to decide the Mongol
championship or something. The row was easily
the best yet seen at the Hippo., and Kee, on his
showing, would make it very sultry for the average
Caucasian of his weight. He has a devastating left.
AVith it he temporarily ruined his Young friend’s
right eye, and the weapon had much to do with
his getting the decision.
* * * *
At Sellick’s Beach (S.A.) recently E.
Ferguson, on an eight-valve machine, cut the
atmosphere at the rate of 95 miles an hour. He
reckons that with a little higher gear he can
eclipse J. Booth's world record of 103 miles.
Ferguson already holds the half-mile and mile
records of the" State, occupying 19 2-5 seconds
and 38 seconds ,for the respective distances—
electrically timed.
* * * *
Sunbrowned bdcolics tripped hundreds of
miles for the N. S. Wales country tennis carnival
at Sydney last week. And how they • did work ! They
began each day at 9.30 a.m. and twilight had set in
before the games ended—over 10 hours of tennis.
On one day A.' C. Laurie, of Maitland, played 15
sets (141 games). Always a titbit of the meeting
is the teachers’ events, and this year H. Woolley beat
11. W. Edwards (Attunga) in the singles by 6 —4,
6—2, and Woolley and Edwards won the doubles.
Edwards took the event in the two previous years.
Grey-headed G. P. Barbour, who came from Too-
woomba (Q.)—614 miles —and lasted u'ntil the
semi-final, played cricket for ’Varsity and Burwood
and Rugby Union for N. S. Wales a quarter of a cen-
tury ago. In the big event, the District Champion-
ship, Forbes just wiped out Buddabadah by 4 sets 36
games to 4 sets 30 games.
* * * *
“Ernest Low”: The news that Paderew-
ski, the lion-maned pianoforte genius, is to be
President of the Polish Republic stirs up within me
a memory of 20 years ago. Paderewski is, or was, a
great pool player and no slouch at feats of strength.
So I and (incidentally) Sandow, the strong man,
found out one memorable night. I was engaged in
bringing out Physical Culture, a magazine “edited”
by Sandow, although throughout its brief career he
never saw “his” articles except in proof, and I
had laboriously to teach him the names of some
of the muscles. I had a great “scoop” with my
first issue—nothing less than an article by Paderew-
ski on “Pianoforte Playing and Physical Culture” ;
an article for which some of the established maga-
zines would have paid a hundred or two, but which
I secured for nix. We met Paderewski at midnight
at the Eccentric Club, after he had earned a fabu-
lous fee for playing at Clievden, millionaire Astor’s
palace on the Thames. We played “live” pool till
the small hours, and after Paderewski had won
or divided every pool we trotted him off in a han-
som to Sandow’s school in St. James’s-street. There
we got him to do everything—bar play the piano.
We put him through his paces at weight-lifting and
general strong-man business; and at a game which
depends upon wrist and forearm strength he knocked
us (including the great Sandow) fairly silly! I
wrote the article from our scattered fragments of
talk and submitted it to Pad. before it appeared
under his name. He approved of it; so did the public,
for it sold out my first issue like hot cakes. And
after all these years I remember somewhat sadly
that that first issue was the most successful.
* * * *
The S.A. Lawn Tennis Assoc, wants to fix
up a Vic.-S.A. struggle in March next. The chief
obstacle is the dearth of first-class players in
Victoria. A. O’Hara Wood, J. A. Eaws, H. W.
Lemme, 0, R. Lister, J. Addison and R. M.
Gillespie have all died fighting, and Norman
Brookes, R. Lycett, R. W. Heath, 0. V. Heath, R. R.
Treloar, G. L. Patterson, and R. M. Rolland are
still O.A.S. There has been no Association tennis
of any kind in S.A. for the last four years, and
it is therefore difficult to say what first-class' players
will be available. When the Hun went mad
Ronald Thomas was the State’s best, and he is still
away. Reg Reid, another well-known figure, has
been killed.
* * * *
R. Botchers won South Aus.’s big shoot-
ing event recently at Ambleside. He hit a
2i-inch circle with 10 out of 12 shots at 200
yards—ls 3 out of a possible 156, which is a
record for the State.
* * * »
At the Redfern (Sydney) Harriers’ meet-
ing on Saturday W. W. Hunt tackled six events out
of seven and won the 220yds. (22sec.) and the 120
hurdles, was second in the 75yds.. and third in the
high jump, hop, step and jump and broad jump. It'
is the sort of thing that will ruin t.he youth’s
chances of ever being a champion at anything. Two
years ago Hunt could . run lyd. “worse” than
“evens” ; last week he could only do “evens” in a
rush for a record.
* * * *
“Riverina”: Once, when we came out of
the line —it was at a time when the western
front was a frozen horror —some of the boys dis-
covered that we were in hare country. The rifle-
men soon got busy. Bullets sang, and the whine
of ricochets resembled the song of many aeroplanes.
Our billet stopped several; and one Digger swore
dreadfully just because a bullet had ripped his
hat. Then a Frenchman’s horse got fatally punc-
tured, and the owner raised a row that ended the
sport.
* # * *
Lacrosse once was understood to be the
national game of Canada; but an Australian who
lately spent a fortnight in the country, travelling
from east to west, didn’t see the game played, nor
did he hear it mentioned. Also, he didn’t see a stick
or a ball in a shop window. Baseball has got that
country.
* * * *
“Riverina” : Journeying home on a Maori-
land transport, we came through the Panama
Canal. The Yanks —soldiers and civilians alike—
gave us a great how-do. They blew us good
band music, and showered coins, sweets, fruit and
reading matter on board. One magazine fell short.
Then the usual sudden galoot came to light. He
hopped overboard to do the retrieving act. A
shout of dismay (which rather puzzled us, as the
ship seemed stationary) went up from the shore.
We were in one of the locks, considerably above
the next level, and the water was running out
beneath us. Our man swam with a queer heavy
legged action. Then a handy rope was thrown.
He grabbed it, and to the accompaniment of much
barrack from his relieved mates, was dragged to
safety-—and arrest.- He was a good swimmer, but
confessed to being all in when the rope came.
* * * *
“Pick”: “G. 11.” (B. 9/1/T9), who ques-
tions my statement that rifle-shooters sometimes use
a 6in. bull, evidently‘•imagines that the beginning
and end of things are at the Randwick (Sydney)
range, where everything is admittedly carried on
strictly to regulations. On country ranges, how-
ever, very rarely have frames been erected to
hold the first-class targets used at 800, 900 and 1000
yards, and the riflemen who practise thereon usually
cut down the size of the bull at the shorter distances.
They find it a good lurk, too, when engaging in prize
shoots under N.R.A. rules, because the unaccustomed
larger bull then makes good shooting so much easier.
On every range, Randwick included, the shooters are
shown their hits with a 3in. spotting disc up to
700yds., and a 6in. disc thenceomvard to 1000.
* * * *
Many fishing enthusiasts spent their holi-
days at The Creel, but the sport was very
disappointing. There were hardly any trout in
the Snowy, and it was thought the cormorants had
been the cause of it. Young Bob Ashton, of Double
Bay, made the biggest catch of the season.
THE DOMAIN OPTIMIST.
[FOB THE BULLETIN.]
Image of Hope and spurner of Despair!
Immovable upon the rocks he stands
(A black north-easter wailing through his hair),
And angles for the fish which are not there.
His hands are redolent of long-dead bait;
A reek of berley permeates his clothes;
No one within the confines of the State
Smells higher, or knows better how to wait.
His hook is camouflaged with practised art;
Sweep cynically scrutinise the lure;
Toad-fish draw up before it with a start,
Examine it, and sneeringly depart.
Outside the Heads the lordly snapper swim,
And red and black rock-cod and nannegai;
All these, and more, lurk in the ocean dim,
But such —thrice bitter thought!—are not for him.
Dusk threatens. He can hear the strident ring
Urging the lovers to the Garden’s gates.
He hurriedly essays another fling.
He has caught nothing—not a blessed thing.
The evening southerly arrives. His dreadful hair
Now leans in the direction of the Zoo.
He does not shift—he still stays fishing there:
Image of Hope and spurner of Despair!
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


YOU SHOULD LEARN
“HOW” TO BOX
—learn how to defend yourself. Such a knowledge will never be a burden
to you, but in times of need will prove your best friend and protector.
No man knows the day or the hour when he will be called upon to avenge
some insult, or the time when he will have to defend himself against some
bully or ruffian.
Are you capable of taking care of yourself in such an emergency? I’f not,
NOW is the time to learn the art of scientific boxing.
I Teach Boxing by Mail
—teach you how to become a skilled and scientific
boxer. My boxing instructions are very thorough—
you’ll find them most interesting and be surprised
at the quick progress you will make under my per-
sonal coaching.
My lessons provide an enjoyable pastime, and are
cramful of health-giving relation and exercise.
Write your name and address across this advertise-
ment and post it to me, and I will send you by
return mail my interesting Booklet, “SCIENTIFIC
BOXING IN YOUR HOME,” which tells all about
my methods, terms, etc. Please send three penny
stamps for postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
“The All-round Champion Athlete of
Australia,”
842 BELMONT BUILDINGS, BYDNEY.
m
|1
mm
p
BE^'l
.
7H>
‘SHELL’ BENZINE
ENSURES EVEN
VAPORISATION UNDER
ALL CONDITIONS.
USE IT -AND PROVE 11,
SrtlUh Imperial 03 Co. Ltd
the!
way to travel"
\ay hhe comfortable
way, the Wealthy way,the
economical way on
$6
CATALOGUE WITH
PLEASURE.
Rhodes Motor Cycle
Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Russell Street,
Melbourne.
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOR
MINING, MILLING, etc.
INCLUDING
STEAH ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL BE POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO
THE SECRETARY, THE GENERAL MANAGER, THE SECRETARY.
Box 229 Q.P.0.,
MELBOURNE.
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND,
Box 220 Q.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
HAND FORGES and DRILLS,
Qi
£
th
a
. \ \
-J
Vi
j
sp’
IBKn
X
Urge variety of Drills
for Hand or Power, and
All Styles of PORTABLE
FORGES IN STOCK.
Benson Brothers Ltd.
76-78 LIVERPOOL STREET, SYDNEY.
71-75 QUEEN’S BRIDGE STREET, MELBOURNE
138 CURRIE STREET, ADELAIDE.
fluid
Magnesia
for lndigesrion.
r unX3Wn
L.ROWUSSB?
WUXARAT
King °/Table Wate^
ConTainb \
Lime-Soda, ,
LIT/1 IAeMAG/lESIA
r
Kfc/lt,.
cl
•»3P
M*
T
nil
a,*
J**V
#l.
There's a Holiday in Every Bottle . •
it
L.S. Riding Trousers,2l/-
m
-<y
■y'y
mmt
m
Mlm>
H
mm
Riding Trousers that will not fit you
perfectly are not worth buying.
ANY man who has done only a little Riding knows the importance
of having Riding Trousers and Breeches absolutely correct in
every detail. A little too much room here, not quite enough
there, pockets not in just the right position, not quite enough “rise ”
and what endless annoyance and discomfort will result.
The moral is—Have your Riding Garments made to Order by a
Tailoring Firm that understands horsemen’s needs in this direction.
“L.S.” Riding Trousers at 21/- are
“LINCOLN=STUART” TAILORED TO ORDER.
They are made in Military Drills of Supreme Suitability for Saddle
Use, and are guaranteed to give satisfactory service We have
specialised for years in the production of Riding Wear Patterns
are Post Free. Now, To-day, is not too soon to write.
LINCOLN, STUART 8 CO. PTY. LTD., Elinders Street, Melbourne.


I
jy he rev eh
yo a are,
you’ll he quite
sure of Collar-
satisfaction i f
yo u insist o n
PE LAC 0 brand.
PE LAC 0 is the
name that iden-
tifies Collars,
Shirts and
Pyjamas of superior
quality.
To men who have not yet
experienced the comfort
and satisfaction that
comes from iv earing
Pelaco garments, we ex-
tend a cordial invitation
to do so in 1919.
Aslc your Mercer for
COL LARS
-in-
Made-
- Australia.
BELLEVUE HOTEL,
Opposite
Queensland Club
and Parliament
Houses.
BRISBANE.
Overlooking Botanical Gardens.
All Balcony Rooms. Tariff, 15s. per day.
POWER BOOKS.
Business Power, £1 Is.
Power of Will, £1 Is.
Power for Success, £3 3s.
FULL PARTICULARS FROM
HAMILTON 8 CO., 34 Pitt Street, Sydney.
DRAWS FROM THE BLOOD
THE POISONS
which cause Bad Legs, Sore Feet, Car-
buncles, Boils,Varicose Ulcers, Bunions,
Eczema, Piles, etc., and those arising from
Insect and Mosquito Bites.
The Proprietors of Grasshopper Ointment
have an absolute confidence in its unsur-
passed nierits. They know it to be a safe
and perfect cure for all skin and blood ail-
ments; and the va=t number of testimonials
received prove it to be. Grassh"pper Oint-
ment positivelydraws the po • ons which pro-
duce these maladies out of the system As
an aperient, liver medicine and blood purifier,
the Grasshopper Pills are equally effective,
and should b - taken in co ljunction with the
Ointment. Sold by all Drug Stores and
Chemists throughou' the Commonwealth.
TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT
TOURIST BUREAU, HOBART.
n
'l tin
TASMANIA
Australia’s Playground.
All information from Tasmania’s mainland
offices: —
' Sydney: 262 George Street.
Melbourne: 59 William Street.
Brisbane: 41 Queen Street.
Perth: 50 William Street.
Send 9d. for illustrated guidebook and
accommodation list. Other literature posted
free.
Tickets issued at Melbourne and Sydney
offices to any part of Tasmania. Special coupon
issued at Sydney for a Fortnight’s Holiday in
Tasmania, £l3 10s., including fares, accom-
modation and local trips.
Accommodation arranged through mainland
offices.
The Hobart and Launceston bureaux book
for all local trips and to all parts of Tas-
mania. Have your correspondence addressed
to our care.
E. T. EMMETT, Director.
BUYERS IN OTHER STATES WRITE
FOR SPECIAL FREIGHT TERMS ON
SADDLES, AND GET OUR FINE
CATALOGUE.
£B/15/-
A Texas Saddle
Made in Australia.
The increasing demand for this type of
saddle induced 11s to add this distinctly
American style of Stock Saddle to our
list of High-class Saddle Creations. It
is made in brown leather on our own-
make tree with steel horn. The seat and
cantle are in one piece of heavy leather.
The skirts are lined with felt and the
stirrup-leathers are 2i-inch wide with
bi'oad fenders. It is fitted with two-
cord girths or cinches and wooden
stirrups.
Freight Free for Cash with Order to
any Port or Railway Station in N.S.W.
Hodgson-made Whips
There
are
None
Better
PRICES
OF STOCK THONGS.
7ft. Bft. 9ft.
12-plait, 14/- 10/- 18/-
16-plait, 17/- 19/6 22/-
'sone. wora!'
Handles to Match: 16-plait, 13/6; 24-plait, 15/6.
If for 9ft. thongs, 1/6 extra for loading. POST FREE.
WALTHER & STEVENSON LTD.,
SADDLERS,
3Q3 George Street, SYDNEY,
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
DIAMONDS as NEW YEAR GIFTS.
No other Gift in the whole list of Valuable Things has such
Personal Appeal as a Diamond Bing.
K 23. —£12/10/-
K7D.—£ll/10/
KlOl3. —Diamond
and 3 Emeralds,
£lO/10/-
ALL OUB DIAMONDS
ABE SET IN
PURE PLATINUM
AND 18ct. GOLD.
mi
K923.—£35.
K 731. —Diamond
and Emerald
Cluster, £55.
■V.
J1040.—£17/10/
£lO/10/-
G93.—£10.
CALL AND INSPECT, or WRITE FOR OUR NEW CATALOGUE
OF USEFUL PRESENTS.
STEWART DAWSON’S,
LARGEST JEWELLERS OF THE EMPIRE,
STRAND CORNER. SYDNEY.
m
RjFles ewrLd
Cartridge©
FOR medium sized game and home protection
this modem and accurate repeating rifle is
unexcelled. Its clean lines, perfect balance and
light weight appeal to sportsmen of experience.
It has the Remington solid breech which
protects the race and eyes of the shooter from
possible blow-backs and keeps foreign matter
out of the mechanism of tlv» rifle.
Descriptive circular mailed free upon request*
REMINGTON ARMS UMC COMPANY
B-8
D. m D. BRYANT. Australian Manager
Box 686, G. P. O. MELBOURNE
Our Artist Jewellers
have surpassed themselves during the last twelve
months in dainty designs of brooches. They usually
are up to date, but our stock now reveals a range
of exquisite new designs beyond any previous period.
The impossibility of importing has probably been a
spur to effort, necessity being the mother of inven-
tion.
'Anyhow, they “have got there.” What about
prices, though? Well! We make the brooches,
and so are in a position to know that they are rare
values.
Values greater than you can get in England.
One Amethyst and Whole Pearls on fine Gold
Bar. 35/.
Diamonds, set in Platinum, £5/15/-
Values larger than in previous times, because we bought the unset jewels at great—very great
reductions.
Plain Figures
Cash only.
Fairfax 8 Roberts Ltd.,
The Oldest Jewellery House In Sydney,
23 and 25 Hunter Street.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (.except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Broker: Yes, but what do you say should
be done ? Rough Coal: Not well enough 1 ewn....
p.W.: Two years late... .H.M.: The same old thing,
called the same old “Anzacs.” H.F.W.: Fair
verse, except for several bad rhymes ; but it doesn t
interest. .. .A.H.L.: Feeble. .. .S.H.: Misses. .. .
M.W.M.: A lot of words, but doesn’t make its point
clear 0.1. Y.: Poor stuff... .G.D.: Screed about
Manly no use to us Mrs. M.: Shocking verse.
L.C.R.: Send it to a children’s paper A.N.:
“Watery Lay” doesn’t carry enough guns.... Coast
Road: Send name and address H.W.S.: “Fairy
Tale” not for us C.G.: “Bureaucracy” too rugged.
R.B.Y.: Not enough marrow in the bones....
K.R.F.: Sonnet won’t do J.A.K.: Too slight....
J.W.: “Critic and Comedian” is a dull bit of in-
sanity A.P.R.: Doesn’t say it well enough....
R.S.: Take more pains Hannibal: “Bachelor”
goes heavily R.C.P.: Only commonplace phrases
of the Christmas-card order... .D.T.R.: Idea small;
verse lumpy... .J.H.E.; Very du11... .Beta : No use.
Zamia: Not nearly. Write on one side of the
paper L.G.D.: No score F. Dressing: They
don’t move us W.A.L.: Poor 3onnet. That
“wits,” “Austerlitz,” “emits,” “its” set of rhymes
sounds like influenza J.S.H.: Nothing there
E. Carew: “Prayer” and “Lonely Life” don’t
amount to anything. .. .A. Dale: The verse has a
little promise, but is below standard. You have
lots of time 1.G.: Too slight. Is love’s kiss
white?... .M.F.: A rhyme like “calm” “alarm”
gets through with great difficulty B.B.: Very
pleasing; but wants more work put into it....
M.L.: “Duggan” held for consideration A.8.C.:
Look at the rhymes—“before”-“saw,” “bore”-“law.”
If they are meant for two sets they are unfortunately
arranged. Anyhow, they spoil the sonnet... .N. 8.:
Verses quite commonplace. We don’t reply by let-
ter G.R.1.: Not fresh enough White House:
No use to us and no name attached... .A. D.: Bad
verse, bad rhymes, tangled thought, poor subject....
1.R.M.: Not well enough done... .C.L.: Verses about
“Gallipoli” have to strike a new note of some
distinction to get a cbance... .E.D.V.C.: There’s a
throb in it, not to mention a delicious rhyme to
go away with: —
Only a small momento,
Nothing more ;
Just a few dried flowers
Laid by in a draw.
Yet they could a story tell
And two hearts could o’er them dwell.
But by fate’s decree we parted,
And tho’ both were broken-hearted
’Tis the fate
Of those who love too well.
As I hold these poor flowers
To my heart.
And kiss her faded photo
Of the one I Joved the best
I wonder where did she go to.
.. . .Web-foot: Vigorous ; try us again.. . .S.C.: “The
Poet” isn’t much like that in this latitude. He’s
generally scratching for two-and-fourpence at some
plain toil which doesn’t leave him time to twist his
mouth for phrases like “dew-drop jewelled.”....
E.A.V.: Pretty rotten 11.1. D.: Ditto Aina Ru:
We’re not keen on parodies, and yours is a very
poor one... .Trion: Nothing there. .. . J.A.W.: One
stanza: —
The Submarine hath shiny sides ;
And fastly through the Ocean glides.
Where Davy Jones (o’er sailors’ bones) his vigil
he doth keep !
Our submarine hath steely sides.
A-where-in mighty strength abides,
Whilst slimy shoals of slipp’ry soles doth through
the porthole peep.
... . M.M. “Regret” nearly ; “Moods” not nearly
M.H.S.: Sonnets no good. Get away from abstrac-
tions and write about realities... .J.A.W.: It’s the
fairylike grace of it that appeals:—
Our Country’s full of Vicious Huns, who’ll tell you
they are Swedes!
The wisest thing’s to wipe them out; Australians
now must needs
ARISE! Quite justly fearing God (as grim old
Cromwell didst!)
These foxy Continentals then a-banish from our
midst.
If not, they'll plot and undermine our economic life ;
And plunge our tranquil, sun-drenched Land, in
wild Maelstromic Strife!
. ...R.H.M.: It has a musical flow, but doesn't say
enough to demand print. .. .A. 8.8.: Hardly.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
F.L.G.: Australia requires new industries, but we
don’t see any hope for your boiled owls.. .1.G.H.:
Don’t want your early waxworks. Study. . .Boult-
wood: You’ve got some way to travel yet....Drof-
sed: Unsuitable. Draw larger next time —if there is
any next time... .Isabel T.: Creditable as a first
experiment, but well below print level... .11. W.:
AVeak draughtsmanship and very little humor....
Noel: Wooden figures in a wooden world... .T.J.M.:
Feeble. It died on the doorstep AVoodicus- De-
pressing bouquet of art gone to seed.
“Austred”: “J.H.” (B. 19/12/’18) mis-
conceives the attitude of the Red Cross in
one respect. It consistently set its face against
accepting the service of any applicant who,
being within the military age, was without
a reject certificate. Only the number of
representatives actually needed for work and
asked for by the society’s commissioners
were sent abi’oad ; and certainly men wish-
ing to avoid service in the A.I.F. found no
shelter under its banner.
A new Labor monthly is to be issued.
Its name will be the “0.8. U.,” and it is
to be the mouthpiece of the One Big Union
idea, concerning which other Labor papers
have lately been publishing disputatious
views. The 0.8. U., from all accounts, is
to be used to educate the proletariat in the
beauties of “industrial unionism” and to
teach “craft unionism” its futility; also,
according to an enthusiastic partisan in a
Melbourne paper, it will “train the workei-s
to own and control the industries in the
coming Republic of Labor.” It should start
its career by indicating, say, one dozen of
the industries which it intends to control,
stating in a straightforward manner exactly
how it means to get hold of them; and in
justice to the worker it should prove to
him by simple arithmetic that he will be
at least as well off in pounds, shillings and
pence under the new order of things as
he was under the old.


AK. records
“when
the boys
come
home
99
Get a Kodak right away so that you will miss nothing of the celebrations and rejoicings—the happy re-unions
and all the joys of the occasion.
And your own boy ? Can you let these red-letter days pass without their permanent picture record?
Of course you cannot!
Get a Kodak right away—you can learn to use one in half an hour.
Every Kodak is Autographic—which means that you can make a record ON THE FILM AT THE TIME.
There are Kodaks from 40/- to £l5 2 -
The No. oa Folding Autographic Kodak is the most popular camera in the world—makes pictures post-card size,
Hx 3| inches. Price £6/15/0.
Of all Kodak dealers and
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.,
Incorporating Baker & Rouse Prop. Ltd..
379 George St., Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins St., Melbourne.
250-252 Queen St... Brisbane; The Valley; 37 Bundle St., Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth St.,
Hobart; Ituthven St., Toowoomba; Blinders St., Townsville; Denham St., Rock-
hampton; Optical and Photo Supplies Co., Perth; 109-111 Dixon St., Wellington, N.Z.
(Wholesale); “The Kodak Corner,” corner Eambton Quay and Willis St., Welling-
ton, N.Z. (Retail); 3 Rome St., Auckland, N.Z. (Wholesale); 76 Stuart St., Dunedin,
N.Z. (Wholesale); 148 Richfield St., Christchurch, N.Z. (Wholesale).
Make your prints on “Eutona” (matt) Self=
toning Paper, or “Solio” (glossy) Self=toning
Paper. Both print in sunlight—easy to use
and give splendid results.
a
unimnm'Mwra
Celebrity and Plum
Label
The Symbol of Supremacy!
WHEN you purchase talking-machine records, it is well to
always look for the Dog Trade-mark, which is
the symbol of “His Master’s Voice” quality —the best-known
trade-mark in the world.
“His Master’s Voice” Celebrity Records represent the Supreme
attainment in record-making, and they alone introduce the
singing: of the really famous stars— the actual
celebrities. Ask for the two new record catalogues, just brought
up to date —one containing Celebrity Records by Caruso, Melba,
Paderewski, Tetrazzini, and every Other artist who has attained
pre-eminence in the world of music ; and the other catalogue
containing more than 2000 popular titles of “Plum”
Label Double-sided Records.
Ask the nearest accredited “His Master’s Voice”' dealer
for them, or write to
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.,
163 Pitt Street SYDNEY.
“GRAMOPHONE.”
Regd. Trade Mart:,
•I HIM
Reg*d Trade Mark.


Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
I* IVO 11 T HEAT It E, SYDNEY
EVERY EVENING AT _ 8.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday at 2,30.
SECOND EDITION OB’
EVERYBODY’S DOING IT.
Plan at Nicholson’s and the Tivoli.
“|"IVOLI THEATRE, MEL, BOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH D. McINTOSH PRESENTS THE LATEST
AND GREATEST LONDON REVUE SUCCESS,
BUBBLY.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- & 1/-, plus tax.
U I TER I O N T II EA T It E, SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OP PRIENDLY ENEMIES.
SATURDAY NEXT, JANUARY 18.
FOR A BRIEF SEASON ONLY,
POTASH AND PERLM UTTER.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Day Sales at Callose’s.
NOT UP TO THE MARK?
ADVICE TO THOSE “BELOW PAR.”
Knowing how important it is to be equal
to the strain of working in these times, it is
astonishing that so many people allow them-
selves to get below par. The best of us are
none too strong, with the strain and anxiety
experienced and the increased demands for
work. Yet too many of us allow ourselves
to grow thin and bloodless, losing energy and
sleeping badly, suffering from indigestion,
headaches and nervousness.
Keeping up to the mark requires the blood
and nerves to be in good order. If these
are right, appetite and sleep will re-
turn, the digestion will give no trouble,!
and the nerves will grow strong and
steady—fit for any emergency. Thou-
sands of persons of both sexes have
testified to the many benefits derived from
the rich, new blood made by Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills for Pale People, and the resulting
improvement in nerves and digestion.
You have the same opportunity to regain
strength by beginning a course of Dr. Wil-
liams’ Pink Pills without delay. Go to
any chemist or storekeeper, and ask for Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills; then you will avoid
the cheap substitutes that are sometimes
offered.
Two booklets, “Diseases of the Nervous
System” and “What to Eat and How to
Eat,” will be sent free on request -by the
Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Box 594 G.P.0.,
Sydney, N.S.W. Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
are sold by all chemists and storekeepers at
2/9 per box, 6 boxes 15/3.— Advt.
28
-VN
BDY
SHOES
WISELY
—economically—buy Abbey Shoes
and get more value for your money,
and the utmost in fcomfort, service
and satisfaction.
We illustrate a special Golf Shoe
in choice Tan Willow Calf,
Heavy Soles, 42/«
Light Soles, 40/-
Made in half and full sizes, and
in three fittings—narrow, medium
and wide.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
A BBE Y,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
Amus emcnts.
HE It SI AJISST X ’ S, SYUNE X.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
THE LIMIT IN REVUE SPECTACLES.
HELLO, EVERYBODY!
A revelation in the art of stage-production.
Box Plan at Paling's. Day Sales at White Rose.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
* Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF OH, OH, DELPIIINE !
SATURDAY NEXT, JANUARY 18.
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO.
IN A BRIEF REVIVAL OF
KATINKA.
Plans at Paling’s.
ALAC E TIIEA T R E. S Y I) N E Y.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY.
EMILIE POLINIE,
The Foremost Dramatic Favorite, in
DE LUXE ANNIE.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
UNION PICTURE TIIEAT It E S
THE PICK OF THE WORLD’S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYCEUM,
STRAND, GLOBE, LYRIC, EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC, GRAND, KING’S CROSS,
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. PRESENT THE
TREMENDOUS PANTOMIME EXTRAVAGANZA.
GOODY TWO SHOES.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
Amusements.
1 11 15 ATIt E It OYA E, JIKLIiOIItNE,
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the Famous
American Comedian,
M. B. FIGMAN, in
NOTHING BUT THE TRUTH.
KING’S THEATRE, J 1 ELISO U It N 15.
Lessees: BAILEY & GRANT.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
J. & N. TAIT and BAILEY & GRANT present
THE MERRY CHRISTMAS PANTOMIME,
JACK AND JILL.
Prices as usual. Plans at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees: BEN & JOHN FULLER.
Direction FRANK RIGO.
Opening
SATURDAY, JANUARY 18,
FOR SIX NIGHTS (Wednesday Matinee).
RIGO GRAND OPERA CO.
CAVALLERIA, RUSTICANA and
I PAGLIACCI.
60 CHORUS 60
40 ORCHESTRA 40
20 PRINCIPALS 20
Musical Director, GUSTAV SLAPOFFSKI.
Popular Prices: 6/-, 4/-, 2/- (Plus Tax).
G. D. PORTUS, General Manager.
gyi Y.JISSTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
NORMA TALMA DGE
in
THE SAFETY CURTAIN.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
Plan at Allan’s.
Amusements.
HOYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET.
Continuous Daily from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Every Evening; Three Hours’ Show from 8 to 11.
THIS AVEEK’S FEATURES:
ELSIE FERGUSON in
THE LIE.
FORD STIRLING in
HER SCREEN IDOL.
LYCEUM (Over Princes Bridge).
Every Evening. Matinees Saturday 2.30.
THIS WEEK’S FEATURE:
DOUGLAS FAIRBANKS in
“SAY! YOUNG FELLOW!”
Prices as usual.
Follies theatre, st kilda.
MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.30.
JOHN N. McCALLUM’S
INCOMPARABLE COURTIERS.
THE ENTERTAINMENT OF THE MOMENT.
THE ACME OF REFINEMENT.
gy| ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPII, PATIIE,
AVORLD, FOX and SELZNICIC.
jgRITANNIA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
PRESENTING THE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. and 6d.
For our sick and wounded
BOYS. —When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Red Cross Book
Depot, Wynyard Street, Sydney.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
G*3
JTI
Heart of Empire Series —
No. 11.
Victoria Embankment
From Westminster-Bridge to
Blackfriars the roadway is
100 ft. wide and 7,000 ft. long,
while thewall is of solid granite
Bft. thick and4oft. high. Built
by Sir J. Bazalgette on about
30 acres of land reclaimed
from the Thames at a cost of
£2,000,000, finished 1870. The
view shows the Cecil and
Savoy Hotels, Somerset
House (built in 1776 and now
used by the Inland Revenue,
Probate, Audit and Registrar
Generals Departments) and
Cleopatra’s Needle, an
Egyptian Obelisk erected
here after many vicissitudes
in 1878. Waterloo Bridge,
opened in 1817, is also shown,
it is beautifully pro-
portioned and cost £1,000,000.
e&U.
lIVHI
imfi]
milt
mm
tin
rs?
ss
m
/A
m
%
m
m
M
n
V/A
W
>in, ~r^:£m,
fefe m*m
" F^Wfi
jrrrrtr
A delightful stretch by old Father Thames, on a motor
shod with good British Avons. For city asphalt or country
high roads there are no tyres that can give you more comfort
in travelling or are safer in busy traffic on skiddish surfaces
than Avons.
Fit AVONS to Your Car •
Agents for N.S.W. : Hammond & Co., 212 Clarence Street, Sydney.
~ ~ Victoria :H. C. Pannifex, 26 Market Street, Melbourne.
„ „ S. Aus. : Gibbs, Bright & Co., Adelaide.
~ ~ Queensland: The Queensland iTotor Agency Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.


DREADED NIGHT
SO ITCHY WITH RASH
All Over Body. Cuticura
Soap and Ointment
Healed.
“For about nine months I was
troubled with a burning, itchy rash all
over my body. I dreaded
night to come on for I could
get no rest. The rash ap-
peared in very small red
blotches very itchy and in-
flamed and when I rubbed
or scratched it would spread
out all over my body.
“Then I saw the Cuticura advertise-
, ment and sent for a sample which af-
forded relief so I bought more Cuticura
Soap and Ointment and the rash was
healed.” (Signed) Miss L. Mayberry,
12 Castlereagh St., Redfern, Sydney,
November 16, 1917.
j Prevent further trouble by using
Cuticura Soap for the toilet.
Soap to cleanse and Ointment to Hpql,
“R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
Sold by dealers throughout the world.
£ :
jf£ %
CHRISTIE 3
SP£CIALIS£
TWO
L/A/TS
# IS
$
0
HTx/
H
M
.
mm
# i $
i
i i ■
WRITE
FOR
CATALOGUE
PATTERNS 0 /
MATERIALS
TO
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
520 GEORGES 1 " SYDNEY
/iONTEA ST NEWCASTLE
EIEY
Always Reliable
2/#
■
ELEY ‘Grand Prlx’
Cartridge Case, loaded with
Eley Smokeless, Ballistite,
Smokeless
<s>
Diamond,
Schultze, or any other
standard smokeless powder.
ELEY ELEY
*450 380
Revolver Revolver
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
ELE Y BROS. L~ LONDON
3
f.
ft
/
o >
/O
NU?<K
2V.
His
J-v'
Just Like New!
Dirty, gloomy, dust-catching furniture can
easily be restored to its original beauty and charm
with Johnson’s Prepared Wax. Has your mahog-
any furniture a bluish, cloudy appearance? An
application of
will quickly and permanently remove it —at the
same time imparting a hard, glasslike surface of
great beauty and durability. It protects the varnish
—adding years to its life and beauty; covers up
mars and small surface scratches. It cleans and
polishes in one operation.
Johnson’s Prepared Wax contains no oil
never gets soft or sticky in warm weather, conse-
quently does not gather dust or show finger prints.
Use it on your piano, gramophone, furniture,
floors and woodwork, linoleum and leather goods.
Use It On the Motor Car
When used on the motor car it preserves the finish
and protects it from the weather —prevents checking—
sheds water and dust and makes a wash last twice
as long.
Insist on Johnson’s Products
from your dealer
S. C. JOHNSON & SON, Manufacturers
379 Kent Sireet, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
km
-z=.
m
7^l
m
the: touch tells
Glide smoothly, never grate .
Artists, Draughtsmen, Engineers,
Architects, Drawing Students, Busi-
ness Men—these are just a few of the
classes who buy VENUS Pencils regu-
larly.
are not a luxury, they are a
necessity for the best work.
%
Made in 17 degrees, 6B to
9H, and 3 styles of Copying.
OF ALL STATIONERS AND ARTISTS’-
MATERIAL DEALERS THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND.
“The amount of Australian capital sunk
in the Northern Territory is nearly
£7,000,000, and the annual loss is £250,000,”
says Melbourne Age, doing its daily weep.
Well, England has about that much sunk in
the South Sea Bubble, but it doesn’t weep
over the matter. It simply worked hard and
paid the debt 198 years ago and started
afresh, with the faith in itself .that shifts
mountains.
Eyre Hutson, C.M.G., Colonial Secretary
of Fiji since 1908, who has been appointed
Governor of British Honduras, is descended
from a line of churchmen. He has had
wide experience in minor colonies since 1885
—at Barbadoes, Mauritius, British Guiana,
Jamaica and Bermuda. He represented Fiji
at the Wireless Telegraphy Conference at
Melbourne in 1909, and was Acting-Governor
of Fiji and High Commissioner for Western
Pacific in August, 1915.
When awake, Victoria’s House of Fat is
tenderly jealous of its “dignity.” It almost
tossed out the Electricity Commissioners Bill
because of a clause providing that these
radiant persons might be dismissed on a vote
of the two Houses or of the Assembly in two
consecutive sessions. The thing was charac-
terised as an “attempted outrage” upon the
Chamber of Fat, and was deleted. Members
had passed an exactly similar clause in the
Forests .Bill two days before, but were too
sleepy to notice it.
The S’African gold-mining industry lias
been badly knocked by increased costs. For
the first half of 1917, 17 Rand cos., whose
capital aggregated over 13 millions, pro-
duced gold worth £3,649,740 from 3,474,285
tons. Some mines showed a loss, and the
total net working profit of the 17 cos. was
only £55,943 —not one-half per cent, on the
paid-up capital. Ore reserves were reduced
by 8 million tons by the elimination of stone
which is no longer payable under present
conditions. Watch out —our old friend
Bimetallism is nearly due for a resurrection.
“Hawk”: Manly can’t use its garden hose
and its roses and geraniums are turning up
their toes. Manly is indignant. It may have
to abandon tennis and bowls. In the
Hawkesbury we have had one good rain in
12 months. Stock is doing a perish ; fruit
trees, bush trees are throwing in the towel.
No one bleats; we are used to being dead.
We are all broke; we are used to being broke.
By resting it a good drought recuperates the
soil; and bleached bones are a most excellent
fertiliser.
There was something characteristically
Hunnish about the story of that English
nurse in a German gaol who was undressed
once a week in the yard and hose-piped as a
substitute for a bath. Fleshy, square-faced
races who wear their eyes wide apart gener-
ally have a robust birth-rate, a notable illegi-
timacy rate—-before the war the Hun topped
the white man’s record in this respect, as
well as in unnatural offences —and a weird
tendency to hose undressed ladies in gaol
yards and elsewhere. This is usually de-
scribed as the manifestation of an artistic
tendency.
It looks as if a deadlock will be reached
in Victoria in connection with the Closer
Settlement Bill because of the refusal of
the House of Rich Landlords to accept the
clauses relating to the compulsory resump-
tion of estates. Yet the Leg. Council has
cheerfully accepted the principle of compul-
sory acquisition in the Metropolitan Tram-
ways Bill, thus granting to a municipal body
a power which it strenuously withholds
from the Government itself. It would be
most improper to suggest that the Council
was influenced by the thought that' broad
acres in the Western District are scarcely
likely to be required for tramway purposes.
Captain Lester, of the American Army
Intelligence Service, giving evidence before
a Senate Committee :
On 10th July, 1914, the German Government in-
formed German employees in Berlin that war would
soon commence. These employees had been despatched
to all parts of the world to conduct German propa-
ganda, and 31 of them had reached the United
States. German Lutheran pastors had been instructed
from Germany to preach pro-German sermons through-
out the States. Some of these pastors had joined the
army, and had been subsequently arrested for sedi-
tious utterances and sentenced to terms of imprison-
ment.
Do the Federal authorities want any
stronger argument in favor of closing Ger-
man Lutheran schools in Australia?
Died in France, a few days before Christ-
mas, Roderick Hutton, of the air force.
Hutton had been right through the war. He
was at sea, on his way to England, when the
Hun advance began, and he enlisted in the
Scots Guards on reaching England four
days later. He fought in France for two
years, and was then invalided to England
with wounds. Afterwards he returned to
France, this time with the R.A.F., and put
in another two years there. An elder bro-
ther, Oswald, went overseas long since as
a Red Cross commissioner. The late Tom
Hutton, well known in the Western Dis-
trict, was their dad. He ran sheep for
many years at the ancient Cheviot Hills
ranch, near Penshurst.
“O.B.”: Although Australia probably con-
tains the largest quantity of first-class mica
in the world, the production of that valuable
mineral is limited to the enterprise of one
small co. working handy deposits in South
Aus. With direct Tariff protection or a
bounty the infant industry would eventually
become capable of meeting all Commonwealth
requirements and supplying some of the
trade abroad. But all appeals for a little
encouragement have not moved the Govern-
ment to plug up the large hole in the Tariff
through which the cheap foreign mineral
enters the country. Presently, when the
shipping increases, Indian mica, gath-
ered by niggers averaging 6d. a day) will
be poured into the Commonwealth. The
Muscovite mica, most useful in insulation
and in many minor directions, reaches the
highest standard of quality in Australia. The
largest block ever recorded came from the
Macdonnell Ranges (N.T.), and fetched a
record price in the London market, one
parcel selling for 30s. per lb. Other
high-grade deposits are known to exist in
Queensland, Victoria and Westralia, but the
Government that is asked to help their de-
velopment replies with polite evasions.


VVMW
''
N 4
'AM
Wv.'a.V.V
US
l
a
Vi'/v'-j
BILLIARD &SNOOKEI
In play they are resilient —perfect in running l —true to angle and of perfect balance.
Far and away superior to any other ball. Unaffected by climatic conditions.
SNOOKER BALLS.
Sizes : If inch, £4/5/-; If inch, £4/15/- ; 2 i nch, £5/5/ - set of 22. Post free to
any address. Put up in strong linen-covered partitioned box, containing set of rules.
Sole Australasian Distributors:
LfC
Headquarters—Haymarket, Sydney.
New City Sports Depot: 99 King Street.
And at Newcastle and Brisbane.
JISSiPi
ISil
IffS
I V
!'i • !'•'
NEW EDISON
—a superb instrument.
The NEW EDISON is a revelation to all who hear it
play.
So perfectly does it “re-create” the masterpieces of the
world’s great musical geniuses that one listens spell-
bound at the absolute purity of tone the wondrous
fidelity of reproduction —so faithful that even in diredl
comparison the original cannot be distinguished from
the “re-creation.”
Get one for YOUR home NOW TO-DAY.
Full particulars, post free, from
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
1
SCORCHING winds and
parched roads give little
anxiety to the motorist using
Spencer - Moulton Three-
Ribbed Tyres.
World-wide experience has
enabled the British makers to
produce in Spencer-Moultons
PENGER—
IyrouLT on
* I . ■lY'i ’ r ■ —i rj i i — m , ■ r mmm
a tyre that is resilient in blazing heat or tropical rains—
that is tough and safe on all kinds of road
surface—a tyre certainly that offers the maximum of
speed, comfort, and economy in the most searching
conditions of motor travel.
The farther you go on Spencer-Moultons the greater will be
the enthusiasm you ’ll find for them, in yourself and others.
Interesting 'Particulars and Prices on request.
GEORGE SPENCER, MOULTON & CO., LTD.,
77-79, Cannon Street, London, England.
Works : Bradford-on-Avon, Wilts . England,
STOCKISTS:
MELBOURNE:
MOLLOY & CO., 129, King Street.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.:
COTTON 8R05.,1212, Madras Street. p.c.b.-
mm
HOTEL
METROPQLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay-
T A RIFF from 11/6 per day, or apartment:
may be secured separately by the day from F
and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Parties
lars posted on application to
The Manager
XI OR OUR SICK AND WOUNDED
Ju BOYS. —When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Red Cross Book
Depot, Wynvard Street, Sydney.
If any illustration appearing in T#
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to t-
Manager, who will quote you price for it


. /
G3b
\ N '
How to
Withstand
Hot
Weather.
THE HEATED TERM.
The heated term is withstood without
a whimper by those people who have a
healthy stomach. Hot weather cannot
hurt the man or woman whose stomach
and digestive organs are perfectly
healthy. But you go into January or
February with a disordered stomach,
and see what the result will be.
SUNSTROKE.
Sunstroke attacks only the man or
woman whose stomach or digestive
organs are too feeble to protect the
strength and maintain one’s physical
power to resist the depressing effects of
the summer’s sun.
SUMMER DIET.
Summer diet, with all its vegetables
and unripe fruit, adds its unstable
influence to the depressing effects of
hot weather, causing a still greater de-
cline in one’s strength and vitality.
IF THE STOMACH IS OUT OF
ORDER.
Ninety-nine out of every hundred
people whose health and strength run
down in summer allow their stomach or
digestive organs to get out of order
That is easy enough—in fact, it is hard
to prevent without the use of some
thoroughly reliable digestant.
TAKE DR. SHELDON’S DIGES-
TIVE TABULES.
One of Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive
Tahules, taken after meals, is not only
the thoroughly reliable digestant, but it
contains great tonic and reconstructive
properties as well. This famous remedy
enables the stomach and digestive or-
gans to thoroughly digest, assimilate,
and contribute to the tissues all the
nourishment that is contained in such
food as may be eaten.
Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules lay the foundation for health and the upbuilding
of strength, by purifying and sweetening the glands and membranes of the stomach,
and by supplying natural juices necessary to perfect digestion, assimilation and
nutrition. Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules prevent Colic, Cholera, Diarrhoea, Flux,
Dysentery and summer complaints generally, and their use will eradicate Indigestion
and Chronic Dyspepsia at once. Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules are good alike for
young and old. Sold at 1/6 and 2/6 per tin.
2/6
Price
ire
lIV
SritisH
LIGHT CAR
Specially designed for the Owner Driver.
Send your enquiry for curly delivery of post-war model to —
I. PHIZACKERLEY. 169-171 Elizabeth St., Sydney
Standard Motor Company, Ltd., Coventry.
(O
m
te,
0
(fm
L
r £2_.
©
0 «
w v.o
~ \Q>
$\K
O' <D >
J2Q_
m
u
D
eL=a
Jlnsune skin loveliness & add a zest to the toilet:
PRICE'S, London. Liverpool. Manchesrer, Glasgow, Ere.
Drifting Sand.
[FOB THE BULLETIN.]
THE riotous southerly drives it over
Yielding girl and expectant lover;
Loose sand blowing from Sydney
beaches
Silting over the pale tide reaches;
Flinging out on the moonlit night,
Squander, sifted and fine and white;
Up where the bracken climbs and flutters,
Down where the breaker rolls and mutters ;
In where the stunted bush makes cover,
Filling the hair of girl and lover;
Over the hands so closely twined—-
Sydney sands in a wet south wind!
Stars a-stvim in the frail cloud-tangle,
Seas far out on the rocks that wrangle;
Round moon galloping through the mazes,
Red grass fire (that pricks and blazes,
Making all for a moment bright
In the cuftain of tree and night),
Choking down by the barren dune
To leave us only a racing moon.
The hush of a, minute’s passionate cling-
ing —
But the sand comes scudding, and cool and
stinging,
Touches their lips and their finding fingers,
And on her bosom it falls and lingers.
Untwine your arms and unclose her hand,
Ever between you there is sand !
With drowsy flies in the long ward drum-
ming
(An old march song in his dulled brain
humming,
Like tramping feet in the desert sand),
A dream hand ever eludes his hand,
As he turns and turns on uneasy pillow
Where palm groves rustle and hot sands
billow.
Does he guess at the tryst that she is keep-
ing,
While he lies so near to eternal sleeping—
Fevered and torn by the Turkish shell,
Body and brain in a sweating Hell?
For the pain is long, and the end is slow,
And the spoils to the man who did not go!
There’s a laugh in the wind that leaps the
ranges,
A laugh for life and its merry changes.
And far away where the trams slide down
To the lilac towers of Sydney town,
There’s a laugh for those who went forth to
save us,
While we fool the trust that their leal hearts
gave us;
A laugh for those who have only scored
A straight white sheet in a long white ward 1
Would you grieve for the man who will soon
be lying,
Where the desert sands in the samiel flying
Will cover his cross with their arid piling?
Oh. seek fresh love, for bis lips are, smiling.
And the moon rides out like a highwayman,
With the gay old motto of “Keep who can 1”
Forget! Most men forget.... and woman
Is weak, and lonely, and only human;
And the wind comes up with a long caress-
ing,
And the lips that are near are warm for
pressing;
And the wild flowers spill through the dark
their sweetness,
And love is yours in its glad completeness.
Oh, the quiet ward, and the tranquil nurses!
Oh, the even moan, and the broken curses,
The fret of the flies’ eternal thrumming.
And the prayers of a Bedouin, incoming,
To mix with chaos and dying murmur !
When the grave is dug shall the sand be
firmer,
Tight-packed that no wraith may rise to
follow
By flat canal and by sea-front hollow.
Till it come to the far-off golden beaches,
Till it find the way to the Sydney reaches,
To place on the treacherous mouth and hand
Cold, dead lips, rough with desert sand?
The rollicking southerly mocks repining;
Shut out regret—with your hot arms
twining—-
There’s a lilt of life in each wild green
billow!
His face is still on the tumbled pillow,
And the woman's picture upon his breast
Has weighed it down in its pulseless rest.
And they bind his jaw, and they close his
eyes,
As safe in a new love’s arms she lies !
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
Preparing His Defense.
[FOB THE BULLETIN.]
I AM a Dutch waiter, newly arrived from
Holland. Seeing in the press numerous
suggestions from profninent citizens as
to how to hang the Kaiser, it has struck me
that Australia may bef interested in my
reminiscences of the gro/’at assassin. I was
employed, till recently, at the Herberg Het
Houten Paard in the jtown of Amerongen,
and my chief duty was to carry refreshment,
alcoholic and otherwise*, to the Kaiser and
his staff at the imperial villa, a few doors
up the Hoogstraat. <
It is the simple truth that ruin has
befallen Amerongen by the arrival of this
pack of brigands. On the Rembrandtkade,
overlooking the water, are Yon Tirpitz and
a number of royster/ing naval officers and
their servants. In the at one time peaceful
Vlamingstraat, close , to the church, lives
Hindenburg—seldom af ever sober after 10
a-m.—and a horde off swashbuckling retain-
ers who have caused a Schnapps-famine that
is felt for miles. Opposite the Kaiser, in
the Hoogstraat. is the Crown Prince. A
number of so-called “Actresses” descended on
the town simultaneously with the prince, and
many hundreds mora have arrived since.
When I left, the Municipal Authorities were
constructing an Actresses’ Quarter in the
park, partly in the* interests of public
decency, partly as a solution of the housing
problem. j
This problem has (been exacerbated by
swarms of speculative English attorneys of
the lowest class who halve come over, unasked,
to advise the Kaiser on the criminal law of
England. The Kaiser and his staff, ever
arrogant, decline to have anything to do
with them. They are, in consequence,
stranded. They spend their time threaten-
ing the burgemeester, and others in autho-
rity, with lawsuits and in striving ineffectu-
ally to force their way into the room in
which the Kaiser and his advisers hold their
conferences.
To add to the difficulty of the position
large numbers of persons are converging on
the town, from all over the world, with the
object of assassinating the Kaiser. Some
are mere popularity-hunters. Others are
duly-accredited Bolshevik officials. Many
have undertaken the enterprise to win
wagers. A young Finnish sportsman is ex-
pected early in the New Year who has
pledged himself to walk from Archangel, in
his evening-dress clothes, and kick the
Kaiser to death, or forfeit £5OOO. In the
interests of law and order, the burgemeester
has placed a cordon of police round the
town. The would-be slayers, baffled tempo-
rarily, are settling down on the outskirts, in
tents, and so forth, to the detriment of agri-
culture and the annoyance of the inhabitants.
Tirpitz struck me as a bilious pessimist,
ever eager to show that his imperial master
was doomed. Not so Hindenburg, who —
more especially when in liquor—fairly radi-
ated hope and cheerfulness. Neither
appeared to know much about English or
any other law. Ludendorff played a judicial
role ; on the one hand mitigating the abys-
mal gloom of Tirpitz, on the other checking
the insane buoyancy of the hero of Tannen-
berg. There were times, I thought, when
the Kaiser showed distrust of the capacity
of his staff. They were under no illusion
about the intentions of the British Govern-
ment. Von Stumm, an elderly diplomat,
formerly an attache in London, had in the
guise of a telephone operative abstracted a
copy of Sir F. E. Smith’s “Opinion” in the
Kaiser’s case from the Attorney-General’s
chambers. The purport of it was that a
conviction for murder could be obtained
against the Kaiser; the specific case chosen
being that of Elias Mugg, a gardener who
was killed in an aeroplane raid on the Blank-
some Hospital, foussex, in August, 1916.
The English legal authorities, in accord-
ance with custom, are placing no obstacles
in the Kaiser's way, so far as the prepara-
tion of his case is concerned. The Govern-
ment immediately acceded to Tirpitz’s
demand that every book on English law
should forthwith be delivered at Amerongen,
and the first of the ships chartered for the
purpose arrived some weeks before I left.
One case which I helped to open included
Broom’s Legal Maxims : Simon’s and Stuart’s
Reports (10 vols.) ; Vesey’s Reports (15
vols.) ; Moore’s Indian Appeal Cases (47
vols.) ; Brown, Macnamara and Neville’s
Railway and Canal Traffic Cases (35 vols.) ;
May on the Fraudulent and Voluntary Dis-
position of Property ; Emden’s Building Con-
tracts, Building Leases and Building
Statutes; Davidson’s Precedents and Forms
of Conveyancing (8 vols.) ; Coote’s Law of
Mortgages; Stephens, Gifford and Smith’s
Manual of Naval Law (the only book in
which Tirpitz seemed to have any confi-
dence) ; MacSwinney on Mines, Quarries
and Minerals; Arnould on Marine Insurance
(Tirpitz again interested) ; Attenborough on
Pawnbrokers; and Mac Queen c'n Marriage,
Divorce and Legitimacy. The last-named was
borrowed by the Crown Prince as soon as it
was unpacked and was never returned. The
episode caused considerable unpleasantness,
as Tirpitz is involved in domestic trouble and
wanted the book himself. He is not the
man to mince his words, and his remarks
about the Prince’s efforts as a collector in
the Verdun sector, and on the ethics of loot-
ing generally, were bitter.
The whole of the volumes are being trans-
lated into German as they arrive. They are
first dealt with by a staff of 1500 typistes,
who work in a temporary hutment in the
back garden of the Kaiser’s villa. The
typistes are nominally • under a feld webel.
but in point of fact they are an undisciplined
lot who obey no one. All day long they
surge about the passages in quest of tea,
face-powder, etc., and their giggling often
drowns the clatter of the machines. At the
front door are the English solicitors, clamor-
ous over their fancied wrongs. Over the
way at an open window lounges the Crown
Prince in the undress uniform of the Death’s
Head Hussars. On his knee sits the “act-
ress” _ who is, for the time being, in favor.
By his side is a bottle of champagne. Ming-
ling with the solicitors and reviling them,
the Hohenzollern family, Holland and the
world in general, are hundreds of indigent
actresses. And through the mob, waiters
from the different cafes struggle periodi-
cally with drink and food for the toilers
within. It is an animated scene, but ill-
adapted by reason of its noisiness for stren-
uous brain-work.
Hindenburg, as I have already indicated,
does not impress one as a reliable lawyer.
A tireless worker, yes. But temperamentally
over-sanguine, with the result that, after a
couple of quarts of his favorite beverage,
Ost Preussiche Bowl (champagne, stout,
rum and brandy in equal parts), he tends
to take a roseate view on every issue, re-
gardless alike of the facts and the law. As
an example I once heard him shout exult-
antly as follows: “Majesty, you are saved !
Hoch ! Hoch ! Hoch ! The good old German
god of legal battles is with us and the Eng-
landers must swallow defeat. I, the victor
of the Masurian Marshes, have! said so.
Hoch ! Hoch” He was here interrupted
somewhat tersely and asked to explain him-
self. whereupon he said that he had found
in Hale’s Pleas of the Crowm that “in case
of a riot, or rebellious assembly, the officers
endeavoring to disperse the mob are justified
in killing them.” He pointed out that “felo-
nious riot” consisted in “remaining together,
to the number of twelve, after proclamation
made to disperse.” He contended that it
would only be necessary for the Kaiser to
prove that there were twelve or more people
in the hospital and he must be acquitted.
Notice to disperse was clearly given by the
arrival of the aeroplanes. That Mugg and
the other people in the hospital were “re-
bellious” was proved by the fact that they
remained where they were, deliberately mak-
(Continued on next page.)


THROUGH THE
TEDIOUS HOURS
"Euery Picture
Tells a Story." 1
fi
L
fs m
s
Ss?
'
-=(/
w.
€i
Mt&'ffV#
Through all the tedious hours of a woman’s day the
symptoms of disease are sometimes present.
And often women think it is their natural lot to suffer in
the way they do —that every woman’s duty is to struggle on-
to think only of her family and her housework —and that her
weakness is the penalty of sex.
This is the great mistake so many women make.
It is not natural, and it is not necessary that women
should be always ailing.
You may be ill and your' kidneys the cause, for kidney
weakness soon destroys your health. Harmful waste and
poisons which the kidneys should remove are left in the system
to work havoc in the tissues, nerves and joints, causing
languor, dizziness, nervousness, backache, pain in the loins,
gravel, stone, dropsy, drowsiness, rheumatism and sciatica.
Never neglect weak kidneys. Give them the help they
need at the first sign of trouble. Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills are solely for the kidneys, and if taken in time will
soothe and heal the delicate kidney membranes, and enable the
kidneys to resume activity and to rid the body of the poisons
which have caused so much distress.
A Sydney Woman Endorses Doan’s Pills.
Lasting Cure of Five Years.
“Mrs. W. Sullivan, 53 Beaumont Street, Waterloo, Sydney, says“l suffered
erribly with my kidneys for some time. I had terrible pains in my back, and couici
rnrdly move without suffering torture. Every time I stooped I would get a twinge
icross my kidneys like the stab of a knife, and I could not help screaming out.
vas also subject to bad headaches, dizzy feelings, and had urinary troubles, ■ the secre-
;ions being thick and cloudy and difficult to pass. Nothing I took seemed to suit
ny case, and I suffered on in spite of treatment, but at last I got a good remedy,
ind that was Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. A friend advised me to take a course
if these pills, which I did, and I am pleased to say they cured me of every dis-
:ressing symptom mentioned above. I used twelve bottles in all, and my cure is
Derfect, for I have been right as rain for the last twelve months.” _
Four years later Mrs. Sullivan says:—“Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills did then
vork well in my case. It is five years since they cured me of backache and ludnej
irouble, and I am still well.”
All Chemists, 2/9 per bottle; or from . e
L Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
DOAN’S
Backache Kidney Pills
ECZEMA
A Lasting' Ctire by
DOAN’S OINTMENT.
Mr. H. Watson, senior, 206 Australia Street, Camperdown, Sydney, says:—“A
ouple of years ago I had eczema break out badly on my chest. (It was shortly after
returned from a trip to India, where I had gone with horses. - I had fever very
adlv in India, and the eczema seemed to be the result of this sickness. It was very
evere, and spread rapidly until I was in such a state that the pain and irritation
early drove me mad. A man I know advised me to get Doan’s Ointment, saying
hat he heard of excellent results from the use of this preparation. I thought it a
ood idea, and obtained a pot. The first few applications gave }me relief, and after
hat I got along splendidly. Every time I applied the ointment there was a marked
mprovement, and within a month I was cured, and not one tjrace of the ailment
emained. Doan’s Ointment is a splendid preparation for eczema, and I recommend
t with every confidence to other sufferers. Its soothing and hejaiing properties are
ronderful.” '
Fourteen years later Mr. Watson confirms the above: — It Is now fourteen years
ince Doan’s Ointment cured me of eczema, and I am pleased jto say that the cure
as stood the test of time. lam still quite free of this dreadful complaint.”
Joan’s Ointment is sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2/9 per pot, or
post free by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
ing of themselves, so to speak, a screen be-
tween the bombers and the earth. And the
persons who released the bombs were offi-
cers. The chain was complete. The Kaiser
was impressed. Even Tirpitz admitted the
reasonableness of the proposition. At a
later stage, however, Ludendorff discovered
that the “officers” referred to meant “officers
of the law.” For a while the staff declined
to believe that even the English were cap-
able of giving canaille like policemen rights
over human life which were denied to the
military caste, but they were at the end con-
vinced.
I was waiting at lunch one day when
three or four tons of law-books were dumped
from a lorry on the pavement outside, the
passages, etc., being, at the moment, too
full to receive them. “How could I be ex-
pected to know all this law?” said the
Kaiser querulously. A roar of approval burst
from Hindenburg. “A defence, All High-
est!” he shouted, beating upon the table
with his beer tankard. “An unanswerable
defence! All Germany knows what a rotten
(vollstandig nutzloss) lawyer you are. ‘As a
soldier not to be mentioned, as a lawyer un-
mentionable’—so ran the witty phrase coined
by myself at the time of your decision in
the Furstenburg scandal.” Tirpitz admitted
that if ignorance constituted a defence there
were “ten thousand good German mouths
available to howl into the ear of craven
Britain the fact that their Kaiser was
totally ignorant of the laws of his own, much
less of other countries.” And finally he re-
stored the normal atmosphere of gloom by
producing Ellis and Blackburn’s Reports,
and indicating Barronet’s case where the
Court said that “foreigners... .must in re-
spect of knowledge of the law be put upon
precisely the same footing as native sub-
jects. We could not listen to a native who
urged that he was ignorant of the law he
had transgressed, nor can we do so to a
foreigner.”
Another gleam of hope came when Hin-
denburg found in Archbold that to constitute
murder the person killed must be “a reason-
able creature in being.” In other words, he
said, it is allowable in English law to kill
one w r ho is not reasonable, viz., a madman.
Tirpitz observed sourly that it was too good
to be true, that it was the first sensible
thing he had found in English law if it was
true, and that in any event it would be
difficult to prove that the gardener was mad.
Ludendorff said that he did not believe that
the indiscriminate bombing of lunatics was
allowed in England, though he sympathised
with the idea himself. There was something
mawkish about the spirit of the English law
which made such practices distasteful to it.
Still he admitted that the point was a likely
one, and undertook to look it up. Two or
three days later he produced a number of
books which clearly showed that the term
“reasonable creature in being” did not relate
to mad persons, but to the as yet unborn.
They were all very much interested in
Article of the Extradition Treaty be-
tween Great Britain and the Netherlands.
This article says that “where the individual
claimed by one of the High Contracting Par-
ties is also claimed by other Powers, for
offences and crimes committed in their terri-
tories, his extradition shall be granted to
the State whose demand is earliest in date.”
All were agreed that, wherever else he went,
the Kaiser should avoid England. When I
left a plan was at work to get him claimed
by the Republic of Andorra for felonies com-
mitted there. It was argued that a small
escort, armed with Lewis guns, could put
him in a highly favorable position in rela-
tion to the Courts of the Republic; and
that in this way his trial might be prolonged
indefinitely. In the meantime there would
be no chance of any other country securing
him. under the universal rule of Extradition
Law that “there is no extradition, if, and
while, the individual claimed is being tried.”
Life in Amerongen was now becoming un-
endurable. The Crown Prince was responsi-
ble for starting a racecourse outside the
town. Shares in the concern were taken by
the solicitors and paid for by cheques, most
of which were dishonored. Large numbers
of dubious characters —bookmakers, jockeys,
trainers and pugilists—arrived and proceeded
to fraternise with the actresses and quarrel
with the solicitors. The Baron Yon Oppel
(in attendance on the Prince), while pre-
paring to chastise a so-called “professional
backer” with the flat of his sword, had his
jaw broken. The burgemeester was faced, on
race-days, with the problem of throwing
open his cordon of police in such a way as
to allow egress from and ingress to the town
so far as ordinary citizens were concerned,
while continuing to bar out those who
menaced the Kaiser’s life. Finding the task
beyond him, he resigned, and was succeeded
by an extremist who declared all racing and
gambling illegal. The Racecourse Co.
became insolvent, and many of the towns-
people were ruined. Meanwhile the solicitors
—worshippers at the Lutheran Church—
fomented a sectarian dispute between the
Dutch Lutherans and the Catholics, who
previously had lived in harmony. The
wharfingers who were engaged unloading the
Kaiser’s law-books struck for higher wages.
So did the carriers. The typistes followed
suit. The demands of the strikers were
acceded to, and the cost of living rose to a
fantastic figure. On every side one saw
starving bookmakers and attorneys, and
always in his window overlooking the High-
street the fleering figure of the Crown
Prince, actress on knee and wineglass in
hand. The malign spectre of Bolshevism
began to stalk the streets. I left.
J. B. VAN DALLEG.
The Soapsud Saviour.
[FOB THE BULLETIN.]
THERE was a burst of unwonted ex-
citement in our street the other after-
noon. I noticed the gathering of the
clans before Whitty’s house, and in and over
Whitty’s front garden. The fact that
Whitty Avas not getting after the trespassers
on his carnations and the villains Avading in
his sweet peas and his sacred, double-dyed,
patent, five-petalled dahlias convinced me
that much was amiss. Nothing short of a
house afire and sudden mutilation and deaJi
in the family could account for the apparent
quiescence of Whitty in such harrowing cir-
cumstances. I went across, and found that
Betty, the five-year-old daughter of my
friend and neighbor, had got her head caught
between the stout, upright bars of the lron-
work of Whitty’s front verandah in such a
manner that extrication seemed utterly im-
possible. Whitty, distracted at the prospect
of his only child being a permanent, semi-
detached fixture to the house, land and
estate, was looking like a wild colt fresh
from the hills, tethered to a log for the first
time, restrained with straps, and badgered
with lashes and the yells of men. He was
trying to push Betty’s head back the way it
had apparently come, when it was obvious
to anyone with half an eye that the said
head would not go back. Very many people,
all more or less demented by the excitement
contingent on such an event and the urgency
of the need, were offering Whitty advice.
Whitty tried everything that was suggested
in the most impartial way. He pulled, and
pushed, and screwed, and twisted his hapless
child, Betty protesting the while with the
aplomb and poignant vociferation of _ early
girlhood. “Stand ’er on ’er ’ead, Mister,”
suggested the corporation laborer. Whitty
hoisted his offspring’s heels in the air.
“Work ’er up and down, boss,” said Ander-
son’s gardener. Whitty worked her up and
down, and Betty’s howl might have served to
drill a boiler. “Better tuck her ears in
and two of us pull and chance it,” ventured
a fellow from the hotel. Whitty gave the
idea a trial, tears pouring down his cheeks.
“Look out, you’ll be breakin’ somethin’!’
said Clarke. “It might be her neck,” sug-
gested Green. “S’pose you was to grease
her head?” hinted the journeyman butcher.
A pound of butter was used to lubricate
the child. Even then she resisted pressure, and
the clamor grew'. The public excitement got
well up to the breaking strain. “Send for
the blacksmith, and remove the house,” de-
manded an authoritative person in black. The
blacksmith had already been sent for. Mean-
while someone advised cutting off Miss Betty’s
hair. “It’s the kid’s ’air wot’s blockin’ yeh,”
the thoughtful stranger assured Mr. Whitty.
While Whitty was cutting his daughter’s
hair the blacksmith arrived, and surveyed
the disturbance with the cold eye of an ex-
pert. “Have to cold-chisel her through,”
said he emphatically. Here Mrs. Whitty,
who had recovered temporarily from her
third indulgence in hysterics, attacked che
blacksmith with a rake, acting under a mis-
apprehension. The blacksmith, with three
tooth-marks on his brow, hastened to ex-
plain that he advised chiselling the bar, not
the babe. While the smith was at work,
great cheering arose in the street, accom-
panying the clatter of horses and the rush
of wheels. Early in the agony somebody
had broken an alarm, and now the fire
brigade had arrived. With it came the
seventh policeman. The fire brigade
watched the smith, the police studied the
situation, the crowd waited in dire expecta-
tion. Would the child survive? “It’ll take
about 10 hours,” warned the blacksmith.
Betty yelled, Whitty wept, Mrs. Whitty tried
hysterics again.
At this stage a large woman with soapsuds
on her brawny arms pushed through. “ ’Ere,
I say, watcher doin’ with that pore child?”
she said. “Chisellin’ of ’er out,” replied the
nearest John Hop. “Gor bless my soul!”
gasped the washwoman. She trod on the Hop :
she walked over several people; she hauled
the smith aside as if he had been lewt. of
something in a bag; then she took Betty and
gently pushed her tody through the bars.
“Of all the idjits,” said the washerwoman,
not to know a kid’s body will offfen go where
’er head won’t.”
“Who’d ’a’ thought it?” said everybody.
Everybody looked a little abashed.
I went home.
B ILLY T.
Reincarnation.
[FOB THE BULLETIN.]
IF ever you should come to France, dear
heart,
Sweet France, who now appears
Triumphant through her tears,
Ah! do not go to see my lonely grave,
For I shall not be there; but rather part
Of every wind, of every silver wave
That dances, mad with Spring, along the
Seine,
Of every flower that folds the summer rain
Into its heart.
My happy ghost will haunt grey broken walls
Where dandelions hold
A cloak of yellow gold
Across the hidden gaps and healing Wounds —
And ancient orchards, where the peach-blow
falls
In drifting eddies on the yellow mounds
Of drying hay, and fields all blazing fair
With yellow mustard and with poppies,
where
The blackbird calls.
When you sit drinking in the summer heat
Some lazy afternoon
In ruddy-bosomed June.
I shall be with you, sitting dreaming, too—
Watching the passers in. the sun-splashed
street,
And on those wild Spring morns of gold and
blue
I shall be laughing in the breeze that comes
To waft faint scent from out the budded
plums,
And - stir the wheat.
But when you see, beneath some future sky,
Lifted from out the mire,
Proud roof and stately spire,
Fair Rheims restored, and every little town
Lifting afresh its laughing face on high,
From out its quiet Avreath of vineyards
brown,
And see with happy eyes the children go—
You see me born again—look long and know
That this is I.
N.S.W.
CHARLES F. PETTINGER.


ViW&m
v*
WM
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-IC7 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
&
MlUt
Ssass*
No
trouble.
In every household there
comes the sudden emergency
when a child is seedy—a
husband is home late —
a wife has to be put on a
specially light diet. That is
the moment when Horlick’s
Malted Milk comes in so
handily. It is no trouble
to make, always proves
palatable, and can be given
with impunity to sick child,
tired husband, or dyspeptic
wife unhesitatingly, as it has
all the required ingredients
(Milk, Wheat and Malt) to
meet each case.
Ask for Horlick’s
Malted Milk
Write for sample, sending
2d. in stamps, to Hutchin-
son & Co. Ltd., 26 Jamieson
Street, Sydney, N.S.W.; or
Sharland St Co. Ltd,, Lorn®
Street, Auckland, & Dixon
Street, Wellington, N„Z,
HORLICKS
MALTED MILK
No Shortage. Ample Supplies.
■Mothers! II s
■seasick
I
CURES
«r
THE
CHARMS
OF A SEA TRIP
need no longer be marred by the
dread of tnal-dt-mer
MOTHERSILL’S Sea-Sick Remedy
is guaranteed to prevent and cure Sea
and Train Sickness, or money refunded.
MOTHERSILL’S has received the un-
qualified endorsement of the leading
papers of the world, and the finest
testimonials from the worldls greatest
men, women and institutions.
No Bad After Effects.
All Chemists, in Large & Smttll. Boxes.
Mothersill Remedy Co., Ltd.,
Corner Clarence and Market Streets,
Sydney.
! Guaranteed to cure
SEA CR
OR MONEY RETURNED
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/3 per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
OSTER
V/ MATCHLESS
__ ewm
a c
e
Easy-starting, easy-pulling, easy-adjustment have all been perfected
in this tool. It is self-contained—it has no loose dies or parts.
Leader screw troubles are permanently eliminated by our patented
chip shield.
Furnished in four sizes. Without ratchet, }&in., % in., lin. to 2in.
With ratchet, lin. to 2in., 2%in. to 4in. All use one set of dies only,
except the largest, which uses two.
“The only way properly to appreciate a Matchless is to use it.” See
your dealer at once.
The Easiest
Way to
Screw Pipe
Carried in stock,
with extra parts,
by ironmongers,
machinery and
hardware 8 plumb-
ing supply houses.
H
; ■
Australasian Representative—
CHARLES WRIGHT, Turner Chambers, 16 Hunter St., Sydney
The Oster Manufacturing Co.,
Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.
TAKE
warning when the following symptoms make their appearance : —bilious-
ness, acidity, constipation, depression of spirits, flatulence, declining
appetite, headache, loss of energy, restlessness at night and heaviness
during the day. Generally speaking, these are indications that all is not
well with the digestive system. Take the necessary steps to remedy
matters. Before another day passes seek the assistance of
Beech&m's Pills
which will speedily relieve these unpleasant feelings, generally due to
complications arising from a disordered stomach, and bring about a
radical change in the General Health. For many years this excellent
preparation has been universally acknowledged to be a first-class remedy
for digestive troubles. They improve the powers of nutrition and thus
enable the body to benefit to the full from the food taken. Anyone who
is at all troubled with ailments originating in derangement of the
stomach, liver and bowels is urgently advised to take Beeeham’s Pills
AND MARK THE DIFFERENCE!
Sold in boxes, labelled price lOgd (36 pills), 1/1£ (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
Vfc ARE YOU n
RuptureD
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Jo you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW: it is,
in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL.
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECUP.ITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
Good Health, Good Looks,
Good Spirits, Good Sleep
A clear head, clear complexion, clear eye,,
clear bowels are the reward
of keeping the liver clear:
and Carter’s Little
Liver Pills take
care of that. Don’t
wait to be bilious
Keep them at
hand. Purely
vegetable.
Saie for
children.
Carters
IITTLK
!VER«'
PlU*'
Small Pill—Small Doso—Small Price.
GENUINE must bear signature
“Dreadnought” Wire Strainer
(Patented)
10/-
4
C&Ci\
PtQ I
10/-
each
Post Free
With Full Particulars
and Illustrated Circular.
The simplicity, lightness and excellence of the
Dreadnought is fully maintained.
BOTH MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
MAGPIE” FLOUR SIFTER
ALL STOREKEEPERS SHOULD STOCK THEM.
NO HOUSEHOLD SHOULD BE WITHOUT ONE.
SOLE MAKERS—
Titan Manufacturing Company,
Norman by Road, SOUTH MELBOURNE ,
-3
m
iIS
MOTORISTS!
Are you prepared to meet the advance in your running costs when
PETROL GOES UP
by any means other than paying the extra cash?
Why not BURN MORE AIR
and thus increase your mileage per gallon by at least 10% ?
Fit to your carburetter manifold
A Hand-controlled Extra Air CocK.
Can be easily installed in a few minutes.
Besides being A SPLENDID GASOLINE SAVER
this device can be used as an efficient air brake when coasting hills.
PRICES :
Sin l ull Bore, Straight Nose, Extra-Air Cock, Brass finish. Nickel finish.
4 with 11 Unions, Clips, &c„ and 4Jft.Flexible Hose 15/- 15/9 comp.
sin. Full Bore, Bent Nose, ditto, ditto, ditto 19/9 20/6 comp.
Robert C. Swan & Co. Ltd.,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.


IHancrovitel
LEATHER
Increases Production
because it grips the pulleys and transmits
maximum power all the time.
MANGROVITE RAWHIDE BELTING
does not steteh or slip—-it is unequalled for
difficult drives. Write for full particulars.
Mangrovite Belting Ltd.
(Successors to Charles Ludowici),
49 Wynyard Square (near C. P. 0.), Sydney, N.S.W.
Western Australia: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Perth
S’th Australia: John Reid & Sons Ltd., Adelaide
The Eagle 8 Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
379 Kent Street,
Syd ney.
264 Latrobe StreK. Melbourne; Kalgoorlie and Fremantle YV A
Charles Atkins & Co. t Adelaide. Paul v- e™,. yti v
, 1; . , _ XT , A am A Cray eta., Newcastle.
Jolin Held & Nephews, Brisbane.
KNIVES FOR
WOODWORKING MACHINES
9
-rtJSTJmSf SSS.*S? !K* "llSii »n.l width of slots;
necessary. ° ,!oits - If Fixed Heads Template absolutely
f
made to your order
Hardies “FIBROLITE’’
Genuine Asbestos Cement
Sheets.
are all pure Australian Asbestos Cement
Sheets.
The first cost” is low, and the cost
keeping a “Fibrolite” building in repair
fully 60 per cent, less than weatherboards.
of
is
fibrolite will riot buckle, split or warp
and, unlike steel walls or ceilings, will not
rust. Proof against white-ants.
You arc eventually going to use “Fibrolite ”
Why not now?
Send for samples and particulars.
JAMES HARDIE & CO. LTD.,
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. WYNYARD & YORK STREETS, SYDNEY
’Phone 8456 (4 Lines).
581-3 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Also Brisbane and Adelaidi
The Original and Genuine
Blue Label
Since eighty nine
from Pure Crape Wine’
SPECIAL HOSPITAL.
*
TUCKER. (SL CO. LIMITED
»■ IS
m
»
a
“Clayton” Portable Steam Engine,
“Tangye” Portable Lampless
Oil Engine.
‘•Star” Portable Oil Engine.
Dalgety’s Machinery Agencies c omP ris=
TANGYE’S Lampless Oil Engines, Benzine Engines, Suction Gas Plants, Pumps of all types etc
CLAYTON Portable Steam Engines. WOLSELEY Sheep Shearing Machines. BUNCLE Chaffcutter's
CANE Milking Machines. E.R.B. Separator Engines, Pumping Engines, Crutching' Plants
TRIUMPH Oil and Benzine Engines, Vertical Type. “STAR” Portable Oil Engines, etc.
MACHINERY DEPARTMENT-MILLER’S POINT, SYDNEY.
Triumph Oil or Benzine
Engine.
E.R.B. Separator
ine.
333232
Buncle Travelling: Chaffcutter
SHEEP
Shearing Machines
Repairs to hand-pieces.
A periodical overhaul of handpieces is absolutely necessary to
ensure long and satisfactory service.
In our Sydney workshops we have installed special machinery to
deal with all repairs and adjustments that may be required and
each handpiece is treated individually by an expert.
The greatest care and attention is given to every batch, no matter
how small. Send yours along to-day.
DALGETY (Sb CO. LTD.— Australasian Agents All Branches.
I
&
■ ,
.
/
We are now manufacturing and have in stock for
immediate delivery complete Laundry Equipment
of the latest English and American design.
Power Washing Machines, Hydro Extractors, Steam
Mangles, Power Ironing Machines, Hand Ironers, etc.
And ALL SUPPLIES for the Laundry Trade.
Call and inspect or write for full descriptive catalog.
RKE & LAGY GO. LTD.
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
A Valve that Stays Tight—The “EVERLASTING” VALVE.
A Sliding Gate, Full Bore, Self.regrinding, High-pressure Valvoof Particular Merit and Faultless Workmanship
muuwug types:—
Heavy Gumnetal Marine, flanged.
Locomotive, flanged and screwed.
Cast-iron Bodies, bronze-fitted.
Quick opening, Slow opening.
Back and Pinion Geared, Worm Geared
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
Used and endorsed by:—
Commonwealth and State Dockyards.
N.S.W. Locomotive Department.
All the large Collieries and Mines.
Leading Boilermakers.
Gas Works, Ferries, Shipping Companies, Meat
Works.
Write us for complete reference lists, booklets, data and
prices.
Guaranteed to remain “Leak-proof” for TWO YEARS
without attention.
Suitable for all Pressures, Steam, Gas, Oil Tar, Water,
Ammonia, etc.
AGENTS:
OF AUSTRALIAN METAL.
Victoria Ramsay & Troganowan, Latrobe Street, Melbourne.
W.A.—Denny Bros., Perth.
Tasmania—das. H. Edwards, Newtown.
We are valve specialists. Bring us your problems.
S. Aus.—Chas. Atkins Ltd,, Currie Street, Adelaide.
South Queensiand-T. B. Wallis & Co., Brisbane,
N.Z.—Paterson & Robertson, Auckland
Sole Manufacturers
in Australasia—
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., Mining and Electrical Engineers, 350 George Street, Sydney.
