

•-
The Spirit of Discrimination.
R. G. WATKINS «S& 00.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining: and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining: Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE
MONEY
ON
TERMS
ON ALL CLASSES OF SECURITY
WITHOUT POSSESSION.
NSW- MONT de PIETE
C°T LIMITED. II
74 Casllereagh St.74.Sydney. 11
CAPITAL S. 200.000 'Phone City 5325
fir&ncAej <?A* 29 King St., Newcastle. NSW- 71517 Swanstom St. Melb. Vic I
40 Adelaide Stßrisbane.Q. 186 Castlereagh St,ls9 George St. West, Sydney. I
JTuseace JPmnett, Gejaer’&J SfasiaGref*.
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not be laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete D. and I. Co. Ltd.”
ii
99
CHROMOL
(Trade Mark)
The Super Driving Belt.
The largest mining and smelt*
: ing plants use “Chromol,” because
: of its proven superiority over all
: other Belting.
Sole Makers:
J.C.LudowiciSSonLtd.
Pioneer Leather Belting Works,
117 York Street, Sydney
Pioneers and Leaders since 1858.
THE BEST !
u
m
5?
23
WM
:
u
mm
D
B
M
neat
.
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HANSENS
tor INDIGESTION
«»- DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
a
■Ol
\\V
xwv®
Do not let
your roof rust
Pabco Paint is the greatest investment possible for
any man or firm owning property with iron roofs
or with exposed iron surfaces of any sort.
Let us PROVE how it will save you MONEY and
inconvenience. Write for details.
The Paraffine Companies Inc. (F. M. Prince,, Austral-
asian Manager), Cliallis House, Sydney.
Hi
SWJSSi
I
ill
A new ana revised edition of the
"Referee" is now available,
and will be sent post free on
application to
JOHN LYSAGHTW..,*, LIMITED
8 Spring Street, SYDNEY
kaV* 4 S sYv* ets
the recognised standard
of quality throughout
the Commonwealth.
BL WHISKY (Bulloch Lade)
ORME, KEIGWIN (St. CO. LTD., SYDNEY Sol* Ag«n«i.
Herbert Morris All British
OVERHEAD CRANES AND RUNWAYS
H E heai> T trav^ttt^ l^ 1 manufactur « » wide range of hai
oneratS travHiT^ I 'i^.S ßA^ E also W. WA ? S «s»*PPe* with hand- or electric-
hand or electric OVER-
Xre ate ware t hon«i lin w«^H lle^« B L Buitable for '«▼«*> conceivable kind of
to be handled thei-«°i« S a°T¥ t * mber etc. No matter what class of goods have
and over time amPtaw E<luipment that wiU P«y f «»* its cost over
Estimates submitted for any type of Crane and Runway, also Jib Cranes, Mast Cranes
for constructional work, Crab Winches, Friction Hoists, Wall Cranes and special
lifting: equipment for special needs. Regular stock of the celebrated Morris 8240
Triple-geared Pulley Block; universally accepted as the finest Pulley Block on the
and P rices will be forwarded by any of the following
(SYDNEY) LTD., 115 Clarence Street, Sydney.
(MELBOURNE) PTY., LTD., 499-501 Flinders Lane. Melbourne
ACiBERNAYS. 125 Adelaide *
TOOTH PASTE
Used Every Day
Prevents Decay.
The Bulletin
Vol. 40.—N0. 2065.
Thursday, September 11, 1919.
PRICE 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


m
The All
ritish!
light" car
Ik Car for the Owner-Driver.
Send Your Inquiry for early delivery
to Agent:
I. PHIZACKERLEY,
SYDNEY.
STANDARD MOTOR CO., LTD.,
Coventry, England.
• • .
THE: TOUCH TELLS
Glide smoothly, never grate. J
Artists, Draughtsmen, Engineers,
Architects, Drawing Students, Busi-
ness Men —these are just a few of the
classes who buy VENUS Pencils regu-
larly.
m
are not a luxury, they are a
necessity for the best work.
9
Made in 17 degrees, CB to
9H, and 3 styles of Copying.
OF ALL STATIONERS AND ARTISTS’-
MATERIAL DEALERS THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALIA AND NEW 7.7 ‘ LAND.
/z
em v %
TTHB judgment of veteran shooters, men who
A know by their own practical experience, is that
Remington UMC Shot Gun Cartridges embody all
of the essential qualities that make for satisfactory
They are supplied in four trade names—
NEW CLUB REMINGTON
NITRO CLUB ARROW
i These four standard brands cover the
entire range of shot gun cartridges.
For further particulars enquire of your
dealer or send for special descriptive
catalogue.
S
Bv
?V*i
=S:/
REMINGTON ARMS UMC
COMPANY
D. D. BRYANT
Australian Manager
Box 686, G. P. O.
Melbourne
Steele Rudd’s Annual
No. 3 CHRISTMAS NUMBER.
READY EARLY DECEMBER.
BOX 678, BRISBANE.
SOLDIERS’ DIARIES.
THE Mitchell Library is desirous of pur-
chasing for the State Archives original
diaries of Australian Soldiers taking part
in the Great War. Good prices will be
paid for good material. Address Mitchell
Library, Macquarie Street, Sydney.
For the Trustees.
W. H. IFOULD,
Principal Librarian and Secretary.
Hudson’s “Eumenthol Jujubes”
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats and
the Prevention of Consumption.
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
m
C. The Bronchial
Tubes of a Dis-
sected Lung.
t>. The Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
CAUTION. —The large sale for Eumenthol
Jujubes has led to a number of imitations
being manufactured under the name of
menthol and other jujubes. It is important,
therefore, when buying to be sure and get
.HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes. You may
be asked to buy other jujubes, and be told
they are “just as good” as Hudson’s Eumen-
thol Jujubes. This proves that these imita-
tions and substitutes have no reputation of
their own, and can only be sold on the good
repute and high character of Hudson’s
Eumenthol Jujubes.
SOLD BY CHEMISTS. TINS 1/6.
a
The Red Page
Van Diemen’s Land
W illiam Hay lias written a three-volume
novel—-if it had been published at the period
of which he writes it would have been
issued- in three volumes—about old Tas-
mania, and if it is not the most powerful
Australian novel yet written, it does not
fall very fur short of that. Indeed, with-
out any reservation, I give it as my humble
opinion that it is the best work of fictiou
that has had to do with any part of Aus-
tralia in any period of Australian history.
There are 200,000 words of it, and there is
no dull page in it all—hardly, it might
almost be ventured, a dull or unnecessary
line. This is a large and comprehensive
statement that is made with some hesita-
tion ; yet, even after re-reading “For the
Term of His Natural Life” for something
like the 20tli time, it is one that it -seems
possible to stick to. The Escape of Sir Wil-
liam Keans may never become as popular
a book as Marcus Clarke’s masterpiece, but
there can hardly he any question as to
which is the finer piece of work. If William
Hay never does anything else —it is not a
first book—lie tiifces a high place in Aus-
tralian literature by this effort alone.
Briefly, it may he ((escribed as “a Portrait
of a Gentleman.” Sir William Means was
transported to Van Dienmn’s Land, about
3540. for the abduction oF a lady—just as
the famous founder of Vaucliise in Sydney,
Sir Henry Browne Mayes, had been, nearly
half a century before him—and the story
has to do with the two unsuccessful attempts
he made to get away, and the final one in
which he achieved his purpose. It has little
plot but the infinite plottings incidental to
these attempts.
The hero is a middle-aged gentleman who
somehow reminds you of Thackeray’s Colonel
Newcome. Few characters, in their strengths
and weaknesses, have been better drawn.
This is _ one of the book’s strongest
features-—its character-drawing. Not only
those who are real personages of history, but
also such tis only have walking-on parts
and disappear in a page or two, are made
visible and real to the render with a crafts-
manship that is as admirable as it is rare.
Hay draws people of flesh and blood —
living men and women. Take this portrait
of Sir John Franklin, when the prisoner-
on-license—No. 2749—was sent for to be
interviewed by his Excellency at the Police
Otlice in Hobart Town, or. as the author
most commonly all fid es to it, “Hobarton”:
A dark, athletic-looking man, in a captain’s uni-
form, was sitting back against a table, with his fine,
kajry hands resting on the edge. 'flic sensitive
lips gave the bald head and bulldog face a half-
sardonic air, belied somewhat by the quick and sad-
dened concern of the wide, bold eyes. There was
no one else in the room.
It was an age of stiff and laudable pedantry;
when Adolphus and Achilles were Christian names of
the vulgar; when man, in a fine endeavor to orna-
ment his speech, to elevate his person, to “exalt
his Maker,” often dropped to mere cold precision-
ism, even hypocrisy; when common women read
Scott, and spread his poems by the heart. We can
afford fo laugh—-we who, in our own time, with our
wild equalising of human temperaments, arc
threatened with a. drab end of formlessness! Frank-
lin was one of these men, his precisionist air
softened by a great and feeling heart; his religious,
Dorninie-Safnpson face in strange contrast to the
free, athletic grace of his person : the whole softened
by that slightly sardonic, sensitive danger-tautened
mouth. Ihcse were lips whose love of man was
such that they were incapable of forming the word
“beast.”
This quotation may well serve as an illus-
tration of the high qualities of the book.
But not alone as a story has it a high
value. It is an historical document —a fine
picture of “the System,”, its administration
and its administrators, at the terribly
efficient height (from the point of view of
the gaoler) of its career. Comparison with
Marcus Clarke is inevitable—indeed, it
would almost seem as though the author had
carefully avoided the pitfalls into which
Clarke sometimes stepped. It has been pos-
sible to turn “For the Term of His Natural
Life” into pretty cheap melodrama; the
same could not be done with The Escape of
Sir William Hearn without making the play
farcical. A fine tragedy, perhaps, but
nothing else. There is a curiously interest-
ing and plausible version of the end of
Governor Collins, whose sudden death in
1830 is said to have been due to murder bv
a convict, rather than to “the visitation of
God.”
-Such books as this—such sane, careful
and artistic books —-are not common, and
their rarity makes them precious. One has
a sense in reading it that its author has
made sure of his ground. Deep study, in-
finite painstaking, and a toueh of genius
have contributed to the making of a novel
that should be as successful as it is delight-
ful. It will probably have as many readers
as it deserves when it is issued in a cheaper
edition. For ten and sixpence you can buy
about 401 b. of steak—and steak is a con-
sideration in these days.
(77i.e Escape of Sir William Keans, by
William Hay, London; George Allen and
Unwin, Limited.)
J.H.M.A.
Freetrade Disasters of History
“An enemy hath done this.” —From the Unpub-
lished Works of Senator Millen, Freetrader.
lan D. Colvin haB written a book, entitled
The Unseen Hand in Enolish History , pub-
lished by the National Review, London. It
is a valuable addition to political literature.
The pity is that there isn’t more of it, so as
to make room for further statistics.
England in its early days had no very
definite industrial history. But facts began
to emerge when the French kings of Eng-
land lost their French possessions—their
homeland and the chief source of their
wealth —and were marooned on their island.
An Angevin empire which spread from the
Blanky Foreland in Ireland to the border of
Spain shrank to very little. About the same
time began that vast Hun trading combine,
the Hanseatic League, which in its great
days embraced 66 cities and 44 allied States.
It controlled the commerce of the world, save
for Italian competition. It was the only
money-lender bar the big Italian cities. It
made war, and made peace, and ordered war
or forbade war. It supplied or didn’t sup-
ply ships to combatants. It commanded by
its hold on the entrance to the Baltic the
furnishment of materials with which ships
were made —timber, pitch, tar. hemp and
sundries. It supplied Northern Europe
with the only good money—Easterling money,
still called “sterling.” Its merchants made
and unmade kings. They wrecked Richard
ii., who interfered with their monopoly in
London, by financing Bolingbroke's insur-
rection. They settled poor weak Henry VI.
and his French wife by financing Edward
IV. Their merchants in London —the com-
bine called the Steelyard—exacted prefer-
ence over the English merchants in England
itself. They insisted that England should
export raw wool instead of manufacturing
for itself, and to a great extent carried their
point. So Freetrade was a policy forced
on England by a strong rival who wanted
to keep it weak.
Elizabeth was the first really strenuous
Protectionist, though her father and grand-
father did something that way. She toiled
at annexing cold, bear-haunted places like
Newfoundland, so that England might have
its own shipbuilding materials, instead of
boxing them fiom the llause monopoly. She
pushed a trade with Russia via Archangel
so that it might get more materials that
way, the Huns having the keys of the Baltic
mute. She had no faith in buying ships.
She revived the shipbuilding industry which
had almost died. She forbade the importa-
tion of weapons of all sorts, and forced their
local manufacture, being convinced that a
country which could only supply the raw
meat and cannon-fodder of an army and
navy had no army or navy except on suffer-
ance. Previous sovereigns had done some-
thing in the same direction, but Elizabeth
formulated the policy that the country re-
quired “a well-grounded independence” and
could not afford to rely on “the courtesy of
strangers.” There was no industry so small
that this brawling lady didn’t protect and
encourage it. In her day an English mer-
chant who married a foreign woman was
disqualified for life. As for being foreign
himself, that was undreamed of.
Elizabeth started by borrowing £16,000
lor six months at 6 per cent. And she left
6000 frocks in her wardrobe when she died.
In those spacious days Spain came into
possession of stupendous gold deposits, and
became an exporter of gold and an importer
of everything else. It forgot manufactures
and plain work. Presently, with all its gold,
it became a borrower abroad. Its Armada
consisted mainly of bought ships. Even the
seamen were to a great extent bought, though
the fighting men—mere soldiers at sea—
were Spaniards. Being an independent
State which had to fend for itself, not a
dependency like Australia, Spain went the
way Australia would go if it didn’t have an
outside empire to lean on.
Cromwell followed in the paths of Eliza-
beth, but with a less steady head. Among
other things he enacted that no foreign ships
should bring produce to England save that
Ti l,S u° wn , countl ’y. an d a t one sweep he put
all the miscellaneous carrying trade into
English hands. Under his system a Swiss
watch couldn’t he imported into Australia
except in a Swiss or Australian ship.
Henry I\., who was a statesman and an
organiser and a staunch Protectionist, began
to do in France what Elizabeth did in Eng-
land. In romance he is a dashing, generous,
picturesque warrior with a white plume and
many unofficial wives. In reality he was a
strenuous political economist of a high order.
Richelieu and Colbert followed in his foot-
steps, and by the time of Henry’s grandson
Ira-nce was the greatest industrial, commer-
cial, military and naval Power on earth.
War, ambition, king’s mistresses and a dis-
solute nobility reduced its pride, but the old
order survived everything except Freetrade.
In Louis XVl.’s time the physiocrats be-
came a great force and got the ear of the
foolish king. They were Single-taxers before
Henry George came "forward with the idea
that he had invented the nostrum. They
were Freetraders of the Manchester school
before there was any Manchester school and
almost be&re there was any Manchester.
The French Single-taxers negotiated a Free-
trade or Revenue Tariff treaty which filled
the British ambassador with amazement,
lie thought he was dealing with polite luna-
tics and warned his Government that the
inrush of British goods would lead to trouble
m France. This was in 1786. By 1788 it
was reported that French manufactures had
slumped. by 75 per cent. France hadn’t even
got reciprocity, for Britain remained Pro-
tectionist. When 4000 manufacturers were
begging in the streets of Rouen the end was
near, and in 1789 the Revolution came along.
Napoleon set to work to rebuild French
manufactures, but he didn’t last long enough
and was too busy with war. He fell for want
of locally-made clothes for his armies, among
other things. The army that retreated from
Russia was badly in need of an overcoat and
two good boots.
The story of Holland is a mere interlude.
Holland was partly manufacturing and
partly commercial and seafaring—not so
low down that it hired ships and sailors as
Australia does, but working with its own
ships and sailors. As wars battered the
Hanseatic League to pieces, the Dutch com-
mercial crowd got the upper hand. With the
entrance to the Rhine in Dutch hands it
seemed a grefct Low Tariff idea that the
goods Germany sold and bought should go
through Holland, so that Jan Van der Loot
could collect tribute both ways. The mer-
chants made and unmade Governments just
as the importers do in Australia, and were
just as bumptious. They said that manufac-
tures interfered with their trade. Then
Britain and France both decreed that Ger-
man goods must come into their respective
empires either in German ships—which were
becoming very few—or in British and
1 rench ships. And the fall of Jan van der
Loot, who had no foundations left and was
buying his long-tailed coat abroad, was
the fall of a Babylon built of cards.
Freetrade in Britain is an episode mostly
compressed into one reign, that of Victoria,
just as French Freetrade was an episode of
Louis XVI. In 1833 Germany, getting to its
feet for the first time since the Thirty Years
and other wars had almost wiped it off the
(Continued on page 24.)


Economical Aids to Farming Efficiency
The P. & O. Canton Disc
Plough gives good results in heavy,
sticky soils or in very hard dry soil.
It is strongly made of the best
materials. The discs are 26in. in
diameter, and each will turn a furrow
from 3 to 12 inches deep and from
10 to 12 inches wide. Price,
1- £l9/10/-
2- £24/10/-
3-Furrow (as illustrated) —
£2B/10/-
The Wiard Three-Furrow
Plough (as illustrated) has beams
of channel steel, with chilled steel
mouldboards, land-side, and cutter
points. It has a specially wide
clevis and carries three Sin. shares.
Adjustable levers to two front wheels.
Can be worked with two or three
horses abreast. . . . £lO
This is a Wiard All-steel
Plough (No. 68), suitable for
exceptionally heavy work, such as
road-building. It can be used
with four or more horses, or steam
power. Weight, with clevis, 32511).
£l7
Chain attachment 80/-extra
Extra Steel Point* 85/-
s£
Gtfti
*
The Wia r cl Rooter
Plough, No. 07 (as illustra-
tration), has great strength and
is adapted to contractors' work.
The beam is made of charcoal-east-,
iron. The point is wedge shape,
S2in. long, and one inch thick,
and is reversible. Weight, with
clevis, 2501 b £l2/10/-
Extra points 45/-
-it*#-*'
mm.
This is Wiard’s Patented
Steel Beam Two - horse
Plough, one of the easiest of
draught of the whole Wiard Series.
It, ploughs from 0 to 9 inches deep
and from 10 to 11 inches wide. Fitted
with ordinary coulter. Weight 1061 b
£5/10/-
The Wiai'd Patent Wood
Beam Plough (as illustrated)
will turn a furrow from 3 to 0 inches
deep and from 0 to 8 inches wide.
Suitable for light work, one horse be-
ing required. Weight 401 b., with
wheel only 87/6
WIMU)
This Plough, No. 74 Wiard,
has forg-ed steel beam, chilled or
steel mouldboard, knife coulter
(not us shown), and Scotch clevis.
The handles are of iron, and can be
raised or lowered; best soft-centre steel
mouldboards, steel landsides, with steel
shoes, and forged steel beam. Weight
841 b 90/-
r'v
rwobki
•***esiiaH6S3Bi
■
No. 120 Steel Be a m
Patent Swivel Plough (ns
illustration) lias steel mouldboard,
and is rigged with straight steel
coulter, which is always in line,
with the plough, being automati-
cally shifted when the mouldboard
is reversed. This plough will
turn hillside or level land without
leaving dead furrows or ridges.
Will cut from bin. to Bin. deep
and Sin. to 12in. wide. Weight
1181 b £8
Thia Disc Harrow, The Star, embraces every!
modern improvement and convenience, and can be operated)
with the greatest ease for man and team. The frame is of!
strong channel steel, as are also the braces that hold both
ends down to their work. The seat can be adjusted for a
light or a heavy driver, all excess of weight being taken off
the horses’ necks.
3ft. Disc Harrow for 1 Horse 1112/157-
Light 2-Horse, 6ft. wide, 10 16in. discs £l6
2- or 3-Horse, 6ft. wide, 12 16in. discs £l7
All Star Harrows have two levers. Cleaners included.
This is the Canton Guard Lever Harrow, a most
useful implement, especially in trashy ground. The incon-
venience and waste of time caused by the tines accumu-
lating trash and fouling a harrow can be avoided by using
this harrow, for by means of the levers the tines clear
themselves. Made in two sections of 25 and 30 teeth per
section.
50 teeth, £8; 60 teeth, including long bar, £9/5/-
SEND TOR A COPY OP OPR AGRICCL-
TFRAL CAT ALO G U E—GRATIS AND
POSTED FREE. IT WILE GREATLY
INTEREST MEN ON THE LAND.
Challenge Oil-engines have points of excellence that
greatly commend them. These include efficiency, reliability and
even-running ability. They are also economical in fuel consump-
tion. Challenge engines are favorites with men on the land.
CHALLENCB,
Drive.
Kerosene
f Petrol
i | Kerosene
j J Petrol
I / Kerosene
Petrol
Kerosene.
Petrol
Petrol
Price.
£35 0 O
£57 10 O
£6O 0 O
£B5 O O
£B7 10 O
£lO5 0 0
£llO 0 0
£l3O O O
£l5O 0 O
gsm
Challenge steel Windmills embody the essentials in mechanical
uesign that ensure constant service, the minimum amount of attention,
and the least possible upkeep.
Develops in For wells
Price.
£9/5/-
£l6/12/6
£23
Towers for Challenge Windmills, 4-post, in 10ft. sections—
20ft. 30ft.
„ _ . £9/5/- £lO/18/6
Gross A\ eight 3981 b. 4851 b.
Net Weight 3151 b. 3601 b.
The Morgan Patent Spading Harrow is infinitely
superior 10 every oilier form oi narrow. It not only
thoroughly pulverises the soil, but leaves it-in such a condi-
tion that it is properly aerated.
A—3ft. —One-horse, 8 loin. spades £lO
A —4ft. —Light two-liorse, 8 16in. spades .... £lO/15/-
A—sft.—Light two-horse, 10 lGin. spades .... £ll
O —sft. —Two-horse, 10 18in. spades £l2/15/-
A —6ft —Standard two-horse, 12 16in. spades.. £l2/15/-
o—6ft. —Heavy two-horse, 12 18in. spades... £l4/15/-
F —6ft. —Heavy two- or three-horse, 12 20in. spades—-
£l4/15/-
C —7ft. —Two- or three-horse, 14 18in. spades £l5/10/-
F—7ft.—Heavy two- or three-horse, 14 20in. spades—
£l6/10/-
V.
Saa
This is the Emperor Hay Rake, and a good rake
it is, too. The teeth are flattened and have chisel points
that will not dig, take up little dust, otter least resistance,
and reduce the draft.
Bft. wide, 24 teeth £ll
LADIES WILL APPRECIATE A COPY OF
OUR NEW SPRING AND SUMMER FASHION
BOOK. POSTED FREE ANYWHERE ON
REQUEST.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS.L T £
Only Universal Providers,
New Pal ace Em porium ,
s£>uv
6058 i~iok field
Syd n e>r.


Happy days—
with your Kodak
Just as a fascinating story unfolds, page after page, so the
pleasure and possibilities of a Kodak are more keenly
appreciated, month after month, year after year, keep-
ing pace with the development of the user, gratifying his
or her ever-changing taste for variety and pleasure.
The 3a Autographic Kodak, for postcard pictures—s \ x inches.
Price £6/2/G
The No. 2c Autographic Kodak Junior, for small postcard pictures—
- 21 x 4|- inches. Price 80/-
The Vest Pocket Autographic Kodak, illustrated for pictures—2-| x 11-
inches—readily enlarged. Price 40/-. Others up to . £l4/17/6
Of all Kodak dealers and
KODAK (Australasia) LTD..
Incorporating: Baker and Rouse Prop. Ltd.,
379 George Street, Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne
liriN,,ane - Tl,e Valley. 37 handle St.. Adelaide. 45 Elizabeth St.. Hobart
Ruthven St., Toowoomba. Flinders St., Townsville. Denham St.. Rockhampton. Optica
and Photo Supplies Co., Perth. 109-111 Dixon St., Wellington. N.Z. (Wholesale); “The Kodal,
t 0 ™ e rV, C 0 f ,a ™*' ton an‘l Willis St.. Wellington. N.Z. (Retail). 3 Dome St., Auckland
76 stuart Street, Dunedin, N.Z. (Wholesale). 148 Lichfield St., Christchurch
K.Z. (Wholesale).
Finish the job
Buy Peace Bonds.
■
1
• V:/,
■»* f' /■* f
■si a
; ■ .
y ■• ' '
. .
■
mm
h
■
/*
£
I*l
\
m
,4;-
H
r M
■
■
:
I
;
I
' V&l <O&J
Tc
Calve in “ Carmen. ”
Hear the Songs IN ENGLISH —and KNOW them!
■ S^s-.Xjs
GRAND OPERA in English has been heard throughout England for the past few
years in ever-increasing volume. We believe Opera in English has been established
as part of our national life by the successful tours made by the chief opera com-
panies, and has awakened a great interest for high-class music.
Liitain s greatest artistes will sing OPERA IN ENGLISH in your own homes
through the medium of the incomparable
Kirkby Lunn
in “Aida,”
To listen to n good opera is a unique enjoyment, at once
a tonic and soothing to the jaded spirits. And once the
fascination of opera has taken hold of you it will never
leave you. Time after time you will want to see and
hear a favorite work, and its appeal, will never grow less,
but rather more. When it is not possible to visit the
opera, one can live over again one’s former visits, by
the aid of “His Master’s Voice” and a selection from the
wonderful list of operatic records by the greatest artists
of to-day.
The Gramophone Co. Ltd.,
163 Pitt Street — Sydney.
“GRAMOPHONE”
Read. Trade-mark.
GRAND OPERA RECORDS.
SOME NOTABLE RECORDS-IN ENGLISH:
"CAVAEEERIA RUSTIC ANA.”
05539—Gems. Grand Opera Co.
“CARMEN.”
04174—Speak to Me of Mother.
E. Matthews & J. Harrison.
_ 2-3086—Habanera. Edna Thornton.
“LOHENGRIN.”
04527—Bridal Chorus. Grand Opera Co.
“THE MAGIC FLUTE” (MOZART).
02589 —He who Treads the Path of Duty.
Robert Radford.
“MIGNON.”
04537 —Gems. Grand Opera Co.
“RIGOEETTO.”
04140 —Dear Child, reeall not to my mind.
N. D’Argrell & Samuell.
04141—Gilda, Gilda, My Daughter.
N. D’Argell & Samuell.
“ROMEO & JUEIET.”
02631—Queen Mab. William Samuell.
“TRAVIATA.”
04187—Par from Gay Paris.
R. Buckman & W. Hyde.
“TROVATORE.”
03508 —Breeze of the Night.
2-3155 —Fierce Flames.
Edith Evans.
Edna Thornton.
Complete record lists,
instrument catalogue
and name of nearest
accredited dealer, on
request.
Mis Master s Voice
“Ilis Master’s Voice”
lieyd. Trade-marl:.


GARTERS
No metal
can touch you.
Socks are a Load's neat and
trim when Paris Garters are
worn.
Look for the Kneeling Figure
and Oval Trade Mark —your
protection against unsatis-
factory substitutes.
Obtainable all Mercers.
Indents and Wholesale:
Walter Cathro Pty. Ltd., 50 York St., Sydney.
Williams’
Holder Top
Shaving
Stick.
71^
mis
iti
i j J.5
ill
iUn«
35?
't HJ JPL
£ ' l
w
THE HIGH COST of LIVING
and
The Low Cost of Shaving.
Four Shaves for a Penny. That is the cost of shav-
ing with the WORLD’S BEST.
WILLIAMS’
You may perhaps get as many as Six Shaves for
a Penny with the Second Best. Is the chance worth
taking ?
WILLIAMS’ SHAVING STICK easily lasts three
months—ninety shaves for 2/-. Four Shaves for a
Penny.
If your Chemist hasn’t got it, don’t blame us. Send
us 2/- in stamps and you • will receive Williams’
Holder Top Shaving Stick by return post.
“Williams,” Box 98 GJ.P.O., Sydney.
■'°&S3s> 5
THE. WORLD'S
*l§m m "'"
vfj&
mm mm&
lUnx\hfvX
HHf
fsfr-i
H
m
m
m
7
ELECTRICIANS
We guarantee reliable service for
ELECTRICAL SUPPLIES
and
ELECTRICAL REPAIRS
An expert Technical Staff and up-
to-date workshops ensure prompt
attention to your requirements.
Motor-starters, Switchboard Gear,
Transformers, etc., quoted for.
Winding Wires, Conduit Fittings,
Lamps and all Electrical Acces-
sories supplied from stock.
The Austral ectric Company,
97 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Branch Offices at Melbourne and Wellington, N.Z.
THRIFT”—the National Watchword—
In these present days of economy, when apparel is required to give the utmost
service,
Bostock’s Shoe Dressings
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
provide an excellent polish, which will increase the wear, preserve the leather and
give a bright and lasting shine. Bostock’s Yiolo Cream, for Patent Leather and
Glac6 Kid, is a scientific emulsion of high-grade waxes, which keeps the leather
soft and pliable, thus preventing cracks and insuring added service.
Colors: Black, Brown, Dark Brown, Ox Blood and White. In Tins, Bottles and Tubes.
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
Bostock’s Violo Polishes, Ltd., Sydney.
vvyr
THE WORKSHOPS
of the world, and wherever tne w itten
word is necessary and recorded, the
ONOTO PEN is lt is
aiways ready to write, fills itself in a flash from any
ink supply— and cannot leak.
Ask your Stationer to show you the ONOTO
self-filiing safetv Pen.
Onoto
Pen
Self-Filling - -
Safety Fountain
Of all stationers, jewellers, etc. Frice 17/-, also
Onato Valve'ess for those who do not want a Self-
Filling Safety Pen 12/6.
Thos. De La Rue & Co , Ltd., Bunhill Row, E.C
Managing Agents: Norman Baker & Longhurst, Sydney
and Melbourne.
ASK FOR ONOTO INK BEST FOR ALL PENS.
THE DAY OF THE TRACTOR HAS ARRIVED
Farmers Orchardists—-Squatters
Should Investigate the Merits of the
SERVICE
POWER
Cletrac
TANK-TYPE TRACTOP
ECONOMY
RELIABILITY
Increase Your Production
By Modern Methods.
Further Particulars from
Pacific Commercial Co., Pomeroy House, York Street, Sydney.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Singing Glen.
Where Rahu Mountain looks away
l ast Maru-ia Springs,
And all the night and all the day
Bright Rahu River sings,
There runs a roadAvay to the west —
It leaves the placid plains
And takes its riders to the crest
With loose and swinging reins;
And as through bushlands deep it goes,
And on for many a mile,
Inangahua River flows
Beside it all the while.
From Rahu Saddle in the noon
There rode a girl one day
Who hummed a light and careless tune
And spurred her dapple-grey.
The light and shadow made her seem
A bushland creature rare.
Within her eyes there dwelt a dream,
And bushlights lit her hair.
But Reefton town is far away,
And everyone who goes
Must know that with them all the Avay
Inangahua flows.
The trees pressed boldly to the road
To meet green boughs above;
The hoofs sang loudly as they strode,
The songs long-riders love;
And where the sunlight shone in vain
She found the shadows cool,
For though the river’s soft refrain
Was hushed in many a pool,
It reached at length a singing glen—
Oh ! every lover knows
There’s magic in the bushland when
A singing river flows!
Now loud and near, now far and low,
She heard the bush-birds’ calls;
There were no eyes to see her go
Where scarce a waggon hauls,
Until —so dim the red road ran
It scarcely saw the sky—
There spurred an armed and lawless man
Who made the mad miles fly.
They met Avith plunging horses held
By wrists and fingers strong,
And louder in the quiet swelled
Inangahua’s song.
“You ride to Reefton town alone?”
“Alone !” Oh ! still her smile —
“I have no riches, and ’tie known
There’s peace in every mile.”
lie turned and made his hot horse stanu
Red blood ran in his veins.
“A needy fellow might demand
The hand that holds your reins,”
He said, “or steal a heart n-thrill
To many a dream that soars.”
Beneath the ramparts of the hill
Inangahua roars.
His bridle-rings Avere close by hers,
And in her quiet eyes
He saAV the startled thought that stirs,
The woman-fears that rise.
“I’ve taken gold, and more, from men,
But I’ll ride light to-day;
Oh, lady of the singing glen,
I take but thoughts away.”
lie doffed his hat and wheeled about
And neither thought it strange
To hear Inangahua shout
Mad music to the range.
Where Rahu Mountain looks beyond
Far Maru-ia Springs,
And swayed by laughter’s shining wand
Bright Rahu River sings,
Oh ! riding, riding to the west
There went a maid one day
Whose heart was stolen from her breast
By one who rode away.
Oh ! magic is to men a snare,
But every women knoAvs
The magic that is hidden where
Inangahua Aoavs.
MAORILAND.
WILL LAWSON.
The Garden.
Among the trampled thorns poor Love lies
dead ;
Lo. ’mid the ruined roses, in his stead,
A thing of hoof and hide and hornbd head!
My heart is bleeding where the roses bled.
V thing of hoof and hide and fleshly greed,
'ontent in lush demesnes to bait and breed;
Through whose gross dreams (so be he
dream, indeed)
A goat-god wanders, playing on a reed.
Shall I, since he nor pity has nor pride,
Like dryad languish or like Syrinx hide,
A reed for ever by the river-side,
O Love, who Avert a rose Avhen roses died?
Since thou art gone Avhat boots it here to
stay
Where Ave were one in such sweet holiday?
Nay, since the gold of all the gold is gray,
Whore thou art gone my soul must find the
Avay !
Beyond this death, beyond the secret door
Whence eagle wing may never seek to soar,
W e’ll find again our own lost Aidenn’s shore,
And roses, roses, roses ever more!
VICTORIA.
MARIE E.J. PITT.
After War.
I cannot bear these first Spring days!
The dreaming wonder of the air;
The green mist dropping on the grass ;
The golden-dappled shadow there
That with the branches shifts and sways;
The madrigals of birds that pass!
For then I hear the small white gate
Flung wide and creaking as of old.
His step swings down the garden ways
To whistled tune or carol trolled.
A silence falls. I sit and wait.
I cannot bear these first Spring days!
N.S.W.
NINA MURDOCH.


PERDRIAU STURDY AUSTRALIAN-MADE TYRES.
Definite Proof of Perdriau Service
We believe that, given equal service, you, as an
Australian, prefer to buy Australian Goods.
When we ask you to fit Perdriau “Purely Aus-
tralian” Tyres on your wheels, we offer you
service unequalled for Australian conditions.
Definite proof of Perdriau Reliability is sup-
plied in letters such as the one reproduced here.
Obtainable from your Garage
or from the Manufacturers —
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD.,
270 George Street,
SYDNEY.
fei ■?
-
X
am
SZHcar
\
flj£
mi
11,000 Miles on Perdriau Tyres.
March, ’l9.
Messrs. Perdriau Rubier Co.,
SYDNEY.
Gentlemen, —
The cover, 33 x 4-|, is one of a set supplied by
you on December 15, 1917. They have been in con-
stant use from December 15, 1917, to March 14,
1919 —doing 11,000 miles, covering all sorts of roads
within a radius of 30 miles of Sydney.
I can recommend to anyone wanting a good,
reliable cover.
( Signed) A. M. S.,
Commercial Traveller.
Original of tills testimonial can be seen at the Company’s
Sydney Office.
And at
122 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
307 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
09 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
3ir Murray Street, Pertb.
FLIES CARRY DISEASE.
INSECTIBANE
KILLS FLIES and
OTHER INSECTS.
Obtainable at all Chemists and Stores
throughout tbe Commonwealth.
ice
Workshop
isirJl
I 5:~-
I :
§
Warehouse
In Office, Workshop,
Warehouse or Home
wherever appetites are sharp-
ened bp fresh air, or hard work,
there you will find
“REX”
CAMP PIE
Serve it any way you will, it is
welcomed by one and all.
It contains all the nourishment
of fresh meat, comes to you ready
to serve, thus saving you all the
labor of cooking.
There is absolutely no waste as
only the choicest morsels of
meats are used and these are
compounded, cooked, and seas-
oned in the inimitable “Rex” way.
“Rex” Camp Pie cuts down meat
bills. Serve it cold with any kind
of salad—serve it hot if you pre-
fer. Either way makes a most
acceptable meal.
Sold by all grocers.
Insist on “Rex” Camp Pie.
Foggitt, Jones & Co. Limited
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Products
Curers of “Rex” Ilams and Bacon
• 1034
Wa
smiiiuiiiMMiiimiini
3&!
flimijiHnnminiif/i^iiniiiDHkmaJ
STs
IN
™miffiiiiiiinin^
c.
From the reign of George I. to
George V. Martell’s has been
favored by the connoisseur.
Superior as a beverage or liqueur;
reliable as a medicinal spirit.
MARTELL’S
BRANDY.
Of proved
excellence
Thorne’s has never failed to meet
the most exacting demands. The
quality is perfect, the flavor is fine
—full, rich, distinctive. Judge it
for yourself.
THORNE’S
O.H.M. “Incomparable”
WHISHT
The delicious fragrance
—the soothing influence —the choice flavor
each bespeaks the superb quality of
ft
BRITISH HAND-MADE
CIGARETTES.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Yol. 40. —No. 2060
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 1919.
Pbice 6d.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
THE HAWKERS: “Don’t bother making that thing for yourself, sonny. We can sell you one for sixpence.”
THE BOY: “Quite so; but if I make it myself I’ll have it and the sixpence, too.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Fur £1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have The Bulletin
sent regularly to you. every week for a year, to any
address in Australasia, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that,
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to Tub Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received arc those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., J/'/l Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., 181/9 Conway Buildings,
Chicago, U.S.A.
Honolulu. — Home News Agency, 7 63 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Iloung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong. .
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai^*^~
Kates.'
k in Z’l copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a News-
paper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maonland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
lid. Only one newspaper should he enclosed in even
packet — otherwise: 802., lid.; Bioz. to Ba.;
lOoz. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, boz., lid., and id. each
additional 2oz.
Tfi^S&ccZZeEiai.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 1010.
MACHINES, AND MACHINES, AND
MORE MACHINES.
Australia wants, above all things, Cheap
Labor, and plenty of it, and, of course, the
skill and industry to use it. No race, white
or yellow or brown, ever rose above the
impeeuniosity of the beasts that perish with-
out Cheap Labor to supplement its own
efforts, and if a blue or striped race is ever
found the same law will apply to it. No
reference is intended to cheap human labor,
which is the worst and dearest kind. Cheap
human labor takes too long to come to
maturity. It dies too soon. It is too feeble,
and occupies too much space. It is capable
of only the smallest amount of development;
the n'eedie made out of a fish-bone may
expand into a sewing-machmg or a power-
loom, but the implement on two legs made
of meat is much the same as it was -.000
years ago. It eats too much, and, unlike the
machine, it eats the same food as its master
and creates a scarcity—which drawback it
shares, in some degree, with the bullock,
ass and horse. It can’t have its food and
drink stopped when there is no work toi
it to do —which drawback it again shares
with ox and ass and horse. And in the end
the miserably-expensive and inefficient tiling
rises up and destroys or enslaves its pro-
prietor. The Cheap Labor on which the
prosperity of mail depends is that ot
machinery, and this especially applies to a
country like Australia, over a great part of
which the amount of food value that a man
can raise without very good appliances is
insufficient to keep him in victuals, boots
and sundries. „ *
Certain wooden-headed, liigh-nosed, proud-
stomached classes are tacitly or actively op-
posed to mechanical Cheap Labor, 01, at
least have a tendency to relegate it to the
backgromrf. Such was I he old aristocratic
cot ion-planting “Southern chivalry of
Louisiana and Carolina (satisfied with its
hmwht nigger 1 : the old dukes oi England
(served by a voteless “faithful peasantry”) ;
and the self-advertising “militant Labor-leader
(whose ambition it is to turn the employing
cllss into serfs, and who meanwhile lives
largely on imported cheap-labor goods and
charts the bill to posterity). One motive
is purely selfish. If the balance of power
passes from the men of pomp and tradition
and the men of jaw and platitude to the
men of mechanical ingenuity, there will be
a different ruling class, and the duke and
the Domain politician will be alike out of
it. They will lind their place, being no
mechanics, among the cleaners, oilers and
greasers. Another motive is purely base
and malevolent. It arises out of the
craving of mean souls to. hurt and
oppress and humiliate and insult some-
body, to make somebody grovel and admit
his inferiority—in short, the desire to
possess slaves, in fact if not in name. The
craving ranges all the way from Cali-
gula, the emperor, to the boss of a push or
the leader of a boycott against men who
didn’t approve of the strike. A machine
doesn’t pander to this diseased sort of mind,
for it can’t be humiliated, swayed by oratory,
starved into surrender, or compelled by
threats to give its vote for Briggs. In its
best and most profitable form machinery has
to be worked on a big scale. It represents
great aggregations of capital, private, State
or co-operative. In the hands of private
capital the Bolshevik orator bitterly objects
to it. In the hands of the State Australia
has proved it ruinously expensive, not be-
cause there is anything wrong with Public
Enterprise, but because a corrupt gang of
politicians charge Public Enterprise, not
only with wages for work done, but with
extra wages to buy the votes of the workers.
As for Co-operative Enterprise, the trouble
is that the loudest advocates of it flatly
refuse, so far as Australia is concerned, to
start it in any shape or form, and have
refused consistently since a certain experi-
ment in Paraguay.
* * * *
The nations that never got beyond their
primitive dependence on the cheap or en-
slaved or partly-enslaved human animal
were left in the ruck long ago. Some of
them were and are profoundly ingenious
hand-workers, but the human animal by him-
self doesn’t earn his own keep according to
present prices and present ideas of what keep
should be. The nations that were mechanical
up to a certain point but not far enough,
including the mere imitators and copyists,
were left behind later. Britain got to the
front for a very little while because it
learned to bo the boss mechanic, and then
Germany and the United States passed it.
The passing was so sudden that the full
effects of it are not known yet. These are
some figures showing the amount of Cheap
Labor— slave labor that didn’t trench on
the white artisan’s food supplies—that each
British and United States toiler had work-
ing for him in various industries at a date
shortly before the war:—
Cheap Machine Labor in Various Industries.
Britain. United States.
Horse-power Horse-power
to help each to help each
1000 workers. 1000 workers.
Clothing .. •• 45 .. 165
Gloves . • ■ ■ 113
Cardboard Boxes .. 114 . . 590
Clocks and Watches 125 .. 628
Hosiery .. • • 163 .. 804
Boots and Shoes .. 172 .. 486
Hats and Caps .. 181 .. §BB—-
Pens and Pencils .. 241 .. 710
Confectionery .. 346 - ' 930
Matches .. . . . . 1729
Cutlery and Tools .. , 2069
•;&. .. 595 .. 1214
Gasworks .. .. 687 .. 3469
Lime .. .. .. 701 .. 1991
Leather .. ■ • 847 .. 2389
Brewing and Malting 937 .. 6209
Soap and Candles .. 1092 .. 2160
Railway Carriages .. 1126 .. 2274
Paints and Colors .. 1375 .. 4012
Butter and Cheese .. 1477 .. 5507
Cotton Goods .. 2214 .. 3433
Cement .. .. 3195 .. 13,873
Paper .. .. 4201 .. 15,846
The list might be expanded a great deal
further if space allowed.
* * * *
In each case the value produced per
worker was vastly higher in the United
States than in Britain, and value produced
is the amount that the worker has a chance
to tight about (except in public loan works
where value doesn’t matter) when he raises
the question of a more reasonable division
of the spoil. If, through strikes, through
going slow, incapacity or the Jack of machinery
(and when the importer has first call on
the unprotected or ill-protected market, the
manufacturer has neither the money nor the
confidence to invest largely in machinery)
there is little to divide, then John Storey
and Garden and Brookfield and Tudor
and Wats it may hold forth till the Rock of
Ages is grey-headed and do no good to any
save themselves. They do good to them-
selves, for their salaries are paid regularly.
In every case, also, the wages paid in the
United States were mostly higher than those
paid in Great Britain. Where comparison
was possible (for some of the industries
quoted don’t exist here, so comparison isn t
possible) they were also higher than those
paid in Australia, despite the fact that all
wages here have long been directly or in-
directly supplemented by loans. The
machines cost something to keep, but not
nearly so much as the human animal, else
they wouldn’t have been employed. The
capitalist took all he could get to provide
him with interest on his money to cover his
risks, and to pay him for knowing how. The
worker also took all he could get, and being
well-organised he got quite a lot. When, as
in the cement industry, each worker in one
country .has 138 niggers working for lum
(assuming that one horse is of the same
pulling power as ten unwilling men) he
has a great advantage over his rival m
another country with only 32 niggers, and
a still greater advantage over a rival with
no nigger. (It may be mentioned here that
tiie liorse-power of a machine represents an
imaginary horse which is much stronger
than any real animal.) And it makes a vast
difference in the food problem when out ot
139 men on a job only one demands bread
and meat while the other 138 dine on coal
or oil or water or wind. In 1911 Australia
had in its factories about 1102 horse-power
of machinery to help earn wages for every
1000 workers. About the same time Britain
had 1182 horse-power per 1000 workers and
the U S 2409. With all this cheap labor
working for him the U.S. man and his coun-
trv naturally made money and began to get
out of debt.' When a country fully realises
and acts on the fact that a column contain-
ing 121 gallons of water. dropping by tup
act of God a distance of 6ft. will do much
more than the work of a horse and wont
trench on the food supply or pass absurd
laws, it is on the road to wealth. Australia
has so far improved that in 1916 it had 16 1-
machine horses working for each ItKX) tac-
torv operatives, but there is every reason to
believe that its biggest rival has improved
faster, and that Australia is further behind
than ever. What has. been achieved is a
small and rather despised type .of local
capitalist. The land-jobber in high places
believes in selling dry land at big prices to
soldiers and starting them with loan money
at the hand industry of raising hens from
eggs sat on b* the maternal chook. The
great, rich, arrogant importer thinks that
shopw'alking, counter-jumping. unpacking
goods by manual labor and wharf-lumping
comprise our natural destiny. . And official
Labor creates no new mechanical-power in-
dustries itself (it doesn’t even start its own
daily paper), and when it finds a man trying
to utilise 12i gallons of water which drops
6ft. by the will of God, and thereby makes
the country a little richer, it gives him notice
that he is' accursed, and that as soon as it
gets a chance to yell in high places at a
big salary it will steal his undertaking
“take over the workshops,” in fact.
“A KIND OF A GIDDY
HARUMFRODITE.”
The recently-formed committee appointed
to report to the Naval Board on R.A.N.
matters other than policy and discip-
line has been handed the recommendations
of the men’s delegates. Most people who
follow naval questions can say beforehand
what the men will ask for through their re-
presentatives. At the moment the archaic
messing and living conditions at sea are as
much discussed in a general way as any-
thing by the Bower Deck. Of fa. 1 moie
interest, however, are the things which will
probably not even be hinted at. rlie out
standing R.A.N. grievance, though tangible
enough, S is a difficult thing to put before a com-
mittee with the idea of having it passed on
to a Naval Board whose members would be
anomalies if they didn’t consider the R.N.
to b“ a model for the world. The grievance
is shortlv that the R.A.N. is still a navy
without a soul. It has not found Rself,
even after five years of warfare.
lino’s marine, it is a “harumfiiodite
Pommy and Aussie, too. „
Tf Inst Thursday, the delegates of the
po’s and men had put before Captain
Robins and his colleagues exactly what the
vast majority of Australians of all ranks
3 ratings in the Navy are thinking, which
for a number of good reasons they
In a position to do, their remarks jvould
have been something on these lines.
b The R.A.N. is a great and glorious institution, but
it is not Australian; and if run on existing lines it
never will be. It is in a far worse position-
nationally speaking, in 1919 A.W. was
in 1914. The got rid of the British
staff-offi.C-erS, "no in the early months of the war
"were regarded as indispensables. The work of their
Australian successors was equal to that done in any
of the Allied armies. After 4* years’ schooling the
Australian Army was in charge of a « Austrahan
it was entirely officered by Australians (over 90 per
cent, of whom had risen from the ranks) and all
its n.c.o.’s were Australian. It is hard to believe
that the art of warfare on the sea is ®° n U
technical than that of warfare on land that a con-
siderable number of Australian A.B. s could not have
qualified as chief p.o.’s or even for .commissioned
rank, by means of schools such as existed all ove
England and the unoccupied parts of France for the
training of likely soldiers. Nothing of the sort
having been done on a big scale, the position is
that to-day practically every important position in
the R.A.N., whether on the quarter-deck or amongst
the lower-deck ratings, or on shore, is held by an
R N or ex-R.N. man. As nothing of any significance
is being done to alter this, it is demonstrable that
the present generation of Australian sailors and the
next, and possibly the one after that, will not rise
above the helots’ jobs in the service.
The outcome is that both Australians and non-
Australians in the R.A.N. are in a false position.
The Australians have the greatest respect for the
capacity of the lent R.N. and ex-R.N. officers, w.o.’s,
p.o.’s and so forth—where such capacity exists. (It
doesn’t exist as often as it should, for the obvious
reason that Britain’s best are not likely to leave
their home navy for another, however attractive.)
But the keener and brainier the Australian sailor
is, the more he resents the solid wall —largely com-
posed of ex-R.N. pensioners—which stands between
him and advancement.
The R.N. or ex-R.N. man can’t help knowing that
this resentment exists, and he would be more than
human if he didn’t resent it. His resentment takes
the form, more especially among the less discreet
R.N. ranks and ratings, of sneers, going as far as
open expressions of contempt of the R.A.N. as an
institution. He does not make any reflection on the
Australian as a man—only as a sailor. In the same
spirit British Guards officers might have sneered,
and no doubt did sneer, at the flower of the A.I.F. —
as soldiers, not as fighters. The prejudice which
many R.N. men express against the R.A.N. is prob-
ably felt, to a greater or less extent, by all, or,
anyhow, nearly all, of them. It is a matter cf
training, traditions and class point of view which is
almost unknown here, and of several other elusive
factors. It fights continually against the good under-
standing which should exist between the lower
ratings and those above them. And so long as it
exists the R.A.N. can never be a Navy in the sense
that the A.I.F. was an Army.
* * * *
If th-e R.A.N. is to acquire the spirit and
pride of service which have done so much
to make the British Navy what it is. and
if the Government is to he justified in the
eyes of the country in presently enlarging
it, the Naval Board will have to sink its
prejudices, or pluck up its courage, as the
case may be, and make the R.A.N. a genuine
national service. And the change will need to
come soon. An Australian Navy means even
more than one the personnel of which is Aus-
tralian. It means a democratic navy. That
is to say, one in which an Admiral’s cocked
hat is within the reach of any youngster of
commanding ability, just as during the war
the crossed swords were to be acquired by
the humblest soldier in the A.I.F. There
are two main obstacles at the present time.
The first is, of course, the imported R.N.
officers, w.o.’s and p.o’s. Since the war began
only one Australian has been made a chief
p. 0.: and he won the rise by a series, of
distinguished performances on active Service.
The fighting being over, no other Austra-
lian of this man’s rating will get his step.
There are hundreds of p.o.’s in the R.A.N.
(chiefly active-service ratings, lent originally
for three years, but who have now for the
most part gone over to the local navy), and,
under the R.N. seniority regulations which
run here, all their back service in the R.N.
counts for seniority in the R.A.N. The
effect from the standpoint of the Lower Deck
is that the best that can ever be looked for
by the most brilliant young Australian who
enters his national navy via the Tingira
training-ship is, in about 99 per cent, of
cases, the rating of leading seaman or lead-
ing stoker. To praotically all this big class
the Navy thus represents a dead-end pro-
fession. The only cure is a regulation pro-
viding that all lent R.N. or ex-R.N. pen-
sioners shall be automatically discharged
from the R.A.N. at the end of their present
engagements. Meantime, in all branches, no
lent R.N. man should be appointed where
an Australian of capacity is available. The
other chief block to promotion is the scheme,
borrowed from England, under which a class
is predestined for the quarter-deck. In our
case it amounts to 80 officers a year, who
begin their training at an age when most
boys have not thought about their future
railings. It would be more in accordance
with Australian sentiment if every boy on
joining the service could be given a level
chance to rise. It could be done by abolish-
ing either the R.A.N. College, at a saving
of a little over £50,000 per annum, or the
Tingira, which costs about £42.000 per
annum. Assume that the Tingira went.
The college at Jervis Bay or elsewhere
would then become a training establish-
ment to which all boys in the Navy would
have right of access, by competitive examina-
tion, after they had done a fixed period in
a sea-going ship. After doing a “school,”
or several of them, at the College—as
artillery “other ranks” in the A.I.F. did at
places like St. John’s Wood (London)
during the war —the recommended boys
would rejoin their ships and in due
course come up for examination for the
rank of acting sub-lieutenant. This
would be the prelude to another “school”;
and so on, the less competent being all the
time eliminated in favor of the keener and
more gifted. Only on some such lines will
the R.A.N. become a permanently effective
instrument, the Australian being constituted
as he is. At present it is not democratic
in the sense that the A.I.F. was, and it is
not an autocracy administered exclusively
by men of a governing class as the R.N. is.
Like the unhappy Eurasian, it tends more
and more to develop none of the virtues and
all of the faults of both sides of its family.
AUSTRALIAN SUGAR.
T
To get a (rue perspective of the position of
Australia’s sugar industry it is well to make
comparison with other sugar-growing coun-
tries.
The size of company-owned Fiji planta-
tions is approximately 400 acres. Allowing
for fields periodically under Mauritius bean,
these plantations are expected to yield up
to SOOO tons of cane per season. The price
allowed in 1917 was 10s. Gd. per ton of cane,
which was supposed to cover the whole cost
of operating the plantation. The labor—
Indian coolie —was permanently employed
under indenture. A bonus of 2s. Gd. per ton
was allowed the Fiji grower, which bonus
was, with few exceptions, considered all pro-
fit. Thus Fiji sugar-cane was paid for at
the rate of about 13s. per ton, and sugar-
cane growing was considered the safest form
of agriculture in the colony. A Tavua up-
land plantation, Drumasi, with poorer soil,
reouired 650 acres to produce the same
average annual tonnage of cane. The plan-
tation employed 60 male coolies at Is. and
20 female coolies at 9d. per day, with cer-
tain bonuses for ploughing and specialised
work. To this rvas added the cost of trans-
portation of each coolie to place of in-
denture, which worked out at sd. per diem.
Quarters and medical attention, but not food,
except under certain conditions of distress,
were provided. The working stock numbered
about 45.
Green Hills, a typical northern districts
(Queensland) plantation, usually with 800
acres under cultivation, should, on the basis
of the poorer-soiled Fiji plantation, produce
about 10,000 tons of cane. Despite the ter-
rible grub injury, Green Hills produces con-
siderably more than that per season. The
estate employs probably not more than a
dozen men permanently, presumably at
North Queensland award rates. Its working
stock does not appear to exceed that of the
smaller Fiji plantation, but a steam-tractor
is in use. Despite the small permanent white
labor force the estate is efficiently worked.
Cane-cutting is contract work at 7s. Gd. per
ton for 15~ton-to-the-acre fields and over.
Most Queensland farms are on the small
side, averaging probably not 50 acres, if the
largest syndicate holdings are excluded. On
these farms a crop of 15 to 20 tons per acre
cannot leave a fortune to bank, but provides
a fair living if the farmer works his holding
and. as lie sometimes does, cuts his cane
with his own and family labor. Obviously a
50-acre or even larger farm cannot afford to
have any area under green-manure crop, and
to gamble in artificial fertilisers for problem-
atical increases in cane-yield becomes a
question of cost of manures (nitrates, where
obtainable, have been as high as £22. per ton 1
plus cost of additional labor against increased
profit. Yet, disparaging talk about Austra-
lian methods of cane-farming notwithstand-
ing, the average of production in Queensland
comes very high, and, when all circumstances
are considered, is second to none in the
world, and more than 100 per cent, above the
Louisiana (U.S.A.) experience.
The low working cost of Fiji plantations
is attractive to the unthinking among the
northern sugar-farmers of Australia; but a
price of 10s. Gd. per ton for cane is certainly
not desirable for Australia, where 30s. or
more is paid for the best. Rather than that
sugar should be produced in this Common-
wealth at a price which means cane-produc-
tion on a coolie status, it were better that
sugar production should die. Prices for labor
and produce are gauges of progress, low
wages being an indication of low civilisation.
The price of Australian sugar has been


rhnf m^f lt t < h u P° n . as low when compared with
ton 4 , Ln , lted States, where £36 per
i* 0, 1 . 55 be a fair average. But, it
are m T , a l l C.S.A. industries wages
fnA T ' 4t 1S not 50 in tbe American
*“ dUStr *’ at au y rate. In the U.S.A.
A ® area ' means the lower por-
..Ki . t^le ae »r° belt, black labor is avail-
dolls r^\ dol^ r - (4s - 2d - » per day. One
Hawaii V he e. rUllDg btbor price also in
lshnr 4 r Japanese and native
OnK • la th e I bilipptnes it is still cheaper.
ln .. the Californian sugar-beet industry.
' n 7®? e - I “ at . l i : conditions equal those of the
of Australia, do wages ap-
r 036 of the Queensland awards.
~ 1 ai j, from any advantage he may have as
1 the American cane-farmer,
Vustralian ISh " r Pl ' iCe ’ iS better ° ff than the
To look for an export market for Aus-
a, aa sa f ar as sugar is useless. Central
ortlie r n South. America, including
i, ’ the Brazils and the West Indies,
nave cheap colored labor, some of it coolie,
on terms resembling those of the Fiji inden-
.ujf.s - -r bas Mauritius, South-eastern
- Inca, India, Straits Settlements, Malaya,
tae Malay Archipelago (Dutch East Indies),
s outhern China and Formosa. Moreover
tiiese cheap-labor sugar-growing lands are
much nearer each to its particular foreign
market than Australian sugar is to any such
market. Our only hope of exporting Aus-
tralian sugar is, therefore, in “secondary”
pioducts preserved fruits and condensed
milk principally. But there is still an Aus-
tralian shortage to be filled, and scope for
extending the consumption of home-manufac-
tured sugar-containing products in Australia,
l robably some importer would have to be
smothered with a tariff first, but that would
hurt no one but the importer; and many an
importer has found another equally-lucrative
job.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The “S.M. Herald” Shouts for
Protection.
On August 30 the S. M. Herald opened
its new career as a Protectionist organ (un-
less it relapses) by a strenuous leading
article entitled “A National Asset.” It
dealt with the cinema-film industry, described
as “the third larerest industry in the United
States,” but it would apply just as well to
machinery or clothes or 1000 other things.
The U.S. flickergraph people, it was pointed
out, have long had the habit of shutting out
English films, and by preserving their own
market to themselves the manufacturers
acquired money and could afford to spend
a little on foreign enterprises with a view
to future profits. In the Herald’s words:—
By dumping their own in the British isles they
effectively crippled English industry. Hence the
English film-producer had no American market, and
was undersold in his own. So, later, he had to
pay the American price willy-nilly.
That is exactly what Tiie Bulletin has
been saying, amid the scoffs of the S. M.
Herald and other Freetrade rags, for many
years, and about many things of far more
importance to Australia than cinema films.
Why the Herald should base its conversion
on the fact that Freetrade England has been
struck in its flicker luxury, while it doesn’t
seem to care what low-tariff Australia is
struck in, passes understanding. The Ger-
mans or Americans who have their own big,
rich, securely-protected markets to fall back
on, have two ways of securing a Freetrade
or ill-protected foreign market. They may
buy the stock and goodwill of local makers:
but local makers may refuse to sell or may
demand an exorbitant price, and they may
start new industries with the price,. or other
people, encouraged by their luck, may start
new industries and have to be bought out,
so the buying-out process may go on for
ever. The other way is to “dump” on a
huge scale —to spend half the money that
the buying-out process would cost in selling
at a loss and far below the price that the
suppliers charge to their own people, and
go on doing this till the local man is killed
off. In this way the goodwill hasn’t to be
paid for, because in the end it has no value
left. The plant and machinery and stock
are acquired for a song, because they are
no longer of any use to the owner. The old
owner doesn’t start a new factory, for he
has no money left to start with, and no
desire to be ruined a second time. And
other people don’t start, unless a mighty
tariff is put on to make dumping hope-
less, for the fear of death has been put into
them, and they know that if they attempt
to interfere they will also be dumped out
of existence. While the foreigner is cap-
turing the market silly Freetrade papers
exult, as the Herald used to do, in the
fact that the benighted Protectionist alien
is supplying us with cheap goods—cheaper
than his own people get, and doing it at
his own people’s expense. They say this
proves that Freetrade means cheap living.
When he has acquired assets and a position
that might have cost a million to buy, and
done it by -wasting perhaps half a million
in underselling, then, as the Herald now
laments, we have “to pay the American
price willy nilly.” The U.S. cinema people,
according to the Herald’s belated tale of
repentance, now control 90 per cent, of the
world’s cinema trade, and have made it their
third greatest industry. They are reaching
out for the other 10 per cent. Also, they
are reaching out for the complete ownership
at their own price of the British cinema-
theatres, because they can freeze out and
destroy opposition by stopping the supply of
films. And as the picture-show is a great
educative influence, good or bad, the U.S.
is to a great extent going to control the
world's education. Incidentally, a Canadian-
United States combine, which is a great
deal more United States than Canadian, is
interfering with the world’s education in
another way. It has practically secured
control of the world’s paper-supply, includ-
ing raw materials for paner in Uncle Sam’s
satellite republics of South America, and
has put up the price of imported paper about
400 per cent., in consequence of which educa-
tive process that great uneducated organ,
the S. M. Herald, is to cost instead
of Id. And a U.S. trust, with a capital
of £3.000.000 to begin with, has just been
formed to control and raise the cost of all
the world’s chemicals and drugs. It is
registered under the new United States law
which authorises a trust to do things abroad
that would earn the profiteers five years’ gaol
if done in their own country. Still, the
Freetrade press of Australia, as a general
thing, advocates the free admission of trust
goods and dumped goods into Australia—
even though the Hebald is shocked about
the way the curse of its own policy has
worked out in the British flickergraph busi-
ness. And the new school of Australian
Labor-leaders—a dull, unlettered folk reared
in mental back-streets —potter round in their
two-foOt, one-horse groove, and call a stop-
work meeting to damage local industry every
time the foreign profiteer strikes us a little
harder than usual
♦
About a Racing Event.
The race is fairly on in N. S. Wales be-
tween the money that Holman can spend in
order to buy a continuance of office and
the money John Storey says he is willing
to spend to buy a chance of office. They
are both maddened spenders with no idea
save office, and no idea about office save that
some voters are accustomed to be placated
by lots of jobs which push up their wages,
while other voters expect to be mollified by
lots of railways to push up their land values.
Two months of their State’s financial year
have expired, and these are some of the
figures:—
Revenue, £3,632,095; which is £216,822 more
than for the same period last year.
Expenditure, £4,338,638 ; which is £877,245
more than last year.
Deficit, so far as things have gone, £806,543.
Increase of expenditure for year if the pace lasts,
£6,268,470.
Deficit for year if the horse doesn’t fall down and
break his neck, £4,839,258.
Loan expenditure for two months, £999,223.
Loan expenditure for yeur if the animal doesn’t
slow down, £5,995,338.
Total expenditure for year provided the moke
that has started so well doesn’t disappoint his
backers, £32,027,166; it was £16,284,790 in 1910,
the year Holman began his long spell of office in
a Government which promised to greatly reduce loan
expenditure.
Appearance of financial track ahead—Lumpy.
Appearance of horse—Groggy.
. Appearance of rider—Crazy.
One future of the case is that the interest
Tfialoooo y and A "S ust was at the rate of
±b,40U,228 per annum, and even at the pre-
sent rate of borrowing the new loan coming
in doesn t balance the interest on the old
loan going out. Some curious things are
happening now in Australia. Loan interest
has gone up so high (one State has put up
its rate to b per cent.) that no one cares
much about putting money into industries
which can only pay wages in proportion to
the value of the output, and which have to
lace the prospect of confiscation when Labor
comes into power, and which have also to
compete in buying labor against an employer
who can pay 20s. for ss. worth of work
and charge the principal to posterity and
the interest to the very man who is'being-
knocked out by the competition. It is bet-
ter to shut up the new factory which one
has in his mind, and lend the money to the
Government, and tell the prospective em-
ployees to go to Sheol or to get work on the
new railway to Drought River. For in-
stance, out of 14 coal-mining stocks quoted
in the S. M. Herald on September 2 seven
didn’t pay a bigger dividend than can now
be got on Government securities, and some
paid much less. Yet a coal-mine is a wast-
ing security where the capital is lost at the
finish; besides, it will have to pay more
taxes to make up the loss on the new high-
priced railway to Drought River, and it is
liable to seizure as well. So the tendency
to do nothing except sit down and hold
Government securities grows steadily. From
England comes news of fierce retrenchment
to avoid national bankruptcy—of wholesale
and retail sacking of public officials, aboli-
tion of Ministerial and departmental motor-
cars, the obliteration of departments that
can be done without, the attempt to cut
down everything except war interest and
war pensions far below the level of the years
before the war. Above all, the doctrine is
being preached, .by Labor-leaders as well
as by others, that more work must be done
to make good the war losses, and that it is
time to Go Faster instead of Going Slow.
England no longer cares 2d. for Australia
as an outlet for its spare money, because
the war has made it a monstrously-indebted
country itself, and it doesn’t expect to have
any spare money for years. So as the old
loans fall due it is liable to ask as much
for renewal (8 per cent, maybe) as it thinks
it can get without bursting its debtor. In
short, it may squeeze this country to help
pay for being squeezed itself. In these con-
ditions Holman and Storey seem two
madder butterflies than usual, with their
policy of attracting everybody away from
productive industry to build loan works on
the edge of a precipice.
“The Made-in-Australia Craze.”
“This Made in-Australia craze” was the
gibe which the Sydney, Freetrade and Land
Values League lately hove by resolution at
the people who want Australia to make its
own pots and pans and wearing apparel.
The remark is a marvellous evidence of the
arrogance of imported persons and their
impatience of the aspirations of mere
colonials. The League is a composite body
—a hybrid or mule. One part consists of
importers and their satellites, who want to
get their nigger-made rags in free of all
hindrance. Duties are one hindrance; Aus-
tralian industries are another; Australian
national sentiment is a third. As it is
necessary to suggest taxing somebody to
make up for the loss of £13.000,000 of tariff
revenue, sacrificed in the foreigners’ inter-
ests, the Freetrader occasionally takes on
Single Tax as a side-line, having been in-
structed by a human gasometer from ’Frisco.
Henry George by name, that the land is
the source of all wealth (including pearls,
fish and shipping profits), so that it should
bear all taxation as a matter of principle.
The Land Values half of the animal which
passes anti-Australian resolutions has, on the
other hand, ohly a secondary interest in
Freetrade. If all nigger-made rags come in
free, then the revenue would be so beggared
that more land-values taxation would get a
show and Land Nationalisation become pos-
sible. So Freetrade is its side-line. William
McMillan and Bulge Smith are Free-
traders, but their class leaves the advocacy
of the Single Tax half of the programme to
wild-eyed cranks. The cranks find McMil-
lan and Bkuce Smith useful but unobtru-
sive brethren. At present the States collect
about £4,000,000 a year from land sales and
rentals, which would disappear if the Gov-
ernment took the value of the land in taxes
instead of the other way. They also take
£1,000.000 in land-tax. while the Common-
wealth takes £2.100.000 in land-tax. This
makes a total from the land of £7.100.000,
irrespective of local rates. The agricultural
population is already diminishing; and if
£13,000,000 of tariff taxation was shifted
on to the soil it might diminish even faster.
But the Land Values crank, who worships
the human gasometer of ’Frisco, is seldom
an agriculturist, and the importer doesn’t
need to own any more than the half-acre his
warehouse stands on. They are a curious
pair, each making a catspaw of the other;
but they are both dreadfully superior and
supercilious and cosmopolitan. (The im-
porter, in fact, is the most cosmopolitan per-
son on earth, barring the anarchist.) The
head of the beast scoffs at Australian-made
goods because they get in the way of his
imported rags, and the tail of the creature
thinks the Australian farmer is just the
night, passive kind of burden-bearer to carry
the heavy end of the tax-load so that the
rest of the population may caper lightly.
The Two-child Family.
Dr. Arthur, M.L.A., giving evidence at a
N. S. Wales Board of Trade inquiry, said :
The two-child family means national suicide. Yet
the Government fixes the minimum wage as for a
family of two children.
Well, when men are urged on the land
to grow wheat at very much the old pre-
war rate, yet have to pay four times the
pre-war rate for the imported material for
the child’s frock, how many children—
dressed children, anyhow—can they afford
to have or can the country afford to have?
While this country sticks to the low-wage,
“raw material” jobs and gives the high-
wage ones to outsiders—while it is paid on
the lowest scale and buys on the highest
one—it can’t really afford to have more than
1$ children, the other being supported
out of loans. Australia spends too much
time supporting children in Britain and
the United States apd Japan. A thread-
making profiteer died lately in Scotland leav-
ing over £4,000.000 (much of it our money)
to buy a crust for his family—not ours. The
case calls for business treatment, not fuzzy
philanthropic remonstrance. The income-
tax returns show that in Britain just before
the war there were 6G people with over
£lOO.OOO a year income, while this year
there are 148. The number of people with
from £lO.OOO to £lOO,OOO increased from
4077 to 8445. The United States and Japan
have enormously increased their holdings of
the very rich. And as we are the kind of
people who are profiteered on, it has been
necessary to cut down the number of our
children for economy’s sake. They may have
to be reduced further. In fact, intending
parents may yet be stamped and licensed
—all on account Of the cost of keeping the
infant in imported clothes, etc.
Lo, the Actor!
“The profession” tfnnks it has been put
upon iu connection with a row which led up
to Clyde Cook’s test case before the N.S.W.
Full Court last week. If it was so the actors
have themselves to blame. The J.C.W. firm
treats its employees as well, and in general
carries on as honorably, as most concerns
in its line. However— Artemus Ward, who
lived a long time ago, on being asked about
his principles, replied: “I told him I
hadn’t any; nary principle; I was in the
show business.” In the same spirit Lewis
Waller, who lived many years later, re-
marked to one who had spoken of a theatri-
cal firm as “reputable”: “My dear fellow,
no theatrical firm is reputable.” The sig-
nificance of such gibes is that the standard
has always been lower in theatrical busi-
ness than in most others. The theatre is the
great mirage of industrialism. Stars get the
salaries of judges, and the inexperienced
flapper who merely “walks on” for a few
hours every night earns more than experi-
enced elderly clerks with families. The
catch in it all is that the payments are
made on a weekly basis. The most strenu-
ous part of the mummer’s work —rehears-
ing, travelling and so on—is honorary.
The comedian who earns £6O a week while
his show is running earns nothing at all
while he is preparing for it, or journeying
to it; and his income stops when he gets
sick. The same thing prevails, of course,
right down the scale. Though the
hours of labor are few when the
rehearsal period is over, yet there are many
things that debar the “pro.” from doing any
other sort of work. This is chiefly why the
glorious being on the stage is usually hard-
up off it; and it is also why a proportion
of every girl-chorus is “assisted.” There is
a powerful theatrical union in America, and
one has just been started in England, whose
object is to make the profession “one that
all will be proud to belong to, a profession
in which all members can live an honest and
wholesome life.” It has begun by making a
minimum-wage agreement with the London
West-end managers as regards payment for
performances and rehearsals, and the
arrangement will, of course, be extended soon
to .the. suburbs and the provinces. Mean-
while in Australia, the home of democracy,
most of the leading pros, decline to unionise;
many of them are openly hostile to unionism,
and don’t mind saying so in public; and the
type of lady whose meagre earnings are sup-
plemented from a treasury which is non-
theatrical is, naturally, indifferent. It is
a matter partly- of snobbery and partly of
selfishness. But even more it is due to lack
of vision. Without effective unionism the
stage will always carry the mediaeval stigma
of being a resort of “rogues and vagabonds.”
M ith it it should soon achieve the status and
dignity of the Bar. medicine and the other
rigidly unionised professions.
Millions Waiting!
According to a recent cable, the plans for
the re-settlement of Palestine are being
rapidly completed. . “Millions,” Dr. Weiz-
mann says, “are waiting to return to the
Fatherland.” Weizmann and N. Sokolow,
the famous Talmudist, have led the Jewish
nationalist movement for years. In their
efforts to foupd a New Jerusalem they are
now offered the help of Professor Patrick
Geddes, the eminent Scotch town-planner,
and the warm support of the British Gov-
ernment. Napoleon first taught the Eng-
lish the advisability of getting hold of Pales-
tine, and Germany drove the lesson home.
The land lies like a wall across the road
to India; and in conjunction with Egypt
it will make the Bed Sea as liritish
as the English Channel—for jf course,
Jewish Palestine is to be under a British
mandate. But will the vast dream ever
be realised? Will the Jew of England,
America, Australia and elsewhere show any
more eagerness to settle in the Fatherland
than the Irishman of those countries evinces
to settle in Erin? Britain would do much
to till Palestine with Jews —preferably Bri-
tish Jews, but if they are not available,
then sensible cosmopolitan Jews who would
live in harmony with the neighboring Arabs
and Armenians. That, too, failing, it would
be content with almost any old Jew barring
the Bolshevik or anarchist Hebrew of the
Lenin breed. But the history of the race
ever since the breaking up of the original
Jewish State holds out no hope of great
success. The normal Jew is an inter-
national. Those people who profess to be-
long only to “the brotherhood of man” cant
about the international principle; but when
war comes they range up as Frenchmen or
Germans or Englishmen, as the case may
be, and at least 00 per cent, of them get
to each other’s throats with as much
zest as “the bourgeoisie.” Not many true
Jews ever succeed in achieving such an atti-
tude of mind ; in which respect they resemble
kings, who are about the only other speci-
mens of genuine internationals that the
world possesses. The War was fully as
horrifying and ruinous to the real leaders of
Judaism (which is to say, the financiers)
as it was to the great dynasties. The
French, the Austrian, the English and the
German Rothschilds found themselves torn
apart. The Kaiser’s millionaire friend, Sir
Felix Cassel, had to get out of London;
and Sir Edgar Speyer fled, with his power-
ful Russian accent, to America. All over
the world these little tragedies were hap-
pening ; but nowhere did the Jew quite lose
that form of patriotism which is particularly
bis—loyalty and helpfulness to other Jews
irrespective of country because they are Jews.
A good Jew will encourage outcast Jews to
settle in the country which he has adopted
as his own, regardless of the effect on the
welfare or even safety of that country. Eng-
land, and particularly London, affords a
case in point at the moment. But the re-
storation of Palestine by another exodus
from the world’s centres of luxury, art and
learning is a different proposition altogether.
The normal Jew has never laid claim to
the passionate national feeling of, say, the
Irishman. Ireland is as pleasant a land to
live in as Palestine is unpleasant. Yet the
Hibernian exile doesn’t settle in Ireland to
any extent, even after he has made money.
Will the Jew who has never talked
National patriotism, and whose whole litera-
ture on the subject is contained, practically,
in the works of the handful of enthusiasts
who now are behind Zionism, suddenly de-
cide to act Nationalism? If so, the 40
years of Bedouin existence which his ances-
tors had to spend qualifying for a place
in the shade will be a trifle alongside the
martyrdom he will he required to undergo.
He will have to tear himself up by the roots
and start life afresh in a land of sand, fleas,
flies and smells. He will have to leave the
amenities of London, Paris, New York or
Melbourne for a city which has not one first-
class restaurant, theatre, picture gallery, race-
course or opera-house. The Zangwills,
Readings, Montagus, Loebs, Rothschilds,
Raphaels and Joels -of another generation
will be undistinguished and rather hard-up
men struggling obscurely with each other
owing to a dearth of Christians. Their coun-
try will be visited only by theologians and
by students eager to see how the odd experi-
ment is working. For the rest they will
live on. “the world forgetting, by the world
forgot,” until the next Great War, when
their position on the map will ensure them
the attention of the warring nations —and,
probably, an army of occupation. If mil-
lions of Jews are indeed waiting for a
national existence on these lines, then the
race has been misjudged. There is a qual-
ity of fanatical patriotism about it which
should impel the mere Christian to remove
his hat in future every time he passes a
moneylender.
Social Conditions in the U.S.A.
“Good Australian” writes from N’York: —
The best and only efficient department of State in
the U.S.A. is the Secret Service Department, a branch
of the Treasury which silently watches the criminal
wherever he is, high up or in the under-world.
There is nothing like it in any other country. It
costs a lot for upkeep, and is worth it. All the
time its officers are tracing and trapping forgers,
bank cashiers, spies, international crooks, agitators,
bomb-throwers, I.WAV. fools, and bad grocers, mer-
chants and milkmen. For months it has been collect-
ing facts about prices, and chiefly about food and
clothing prices. Take boots, for example. Before
the war those which sold for 425. a pair are now
offered at £6 135., and look like going higher. To
be quite fair to the profiteers, this country has been
more than generous in shipping foodstuffs to Europe.
In the year ended June, £533,000,000 worth was
sent away. The amount of all kinds shipped in
June was £80,000,000, and approximately
£2,600,000 worth is leaving every day. Of course
this has affected prices ; on the other hand, produc-
tion is on an abnormal scale, and extraordinary sup-
plies of everything eatable are being raised. The
Secret Service found out that at Chicago and other
large centres cold stores and warehouses were choked
up with food, crude and manufactured, to the ex-
tent of billions of dollars’ worth, and prices have
been insidiously and quietly forced up. So President
Wilson and Congress have been compelled to take
action to stop prices soaring, and to let loose the
food piled up in lofts. Last year Congress guaran-
teed the farmer 2.26 dollars a bushel for his wheat,
and set aside a fund of £250,000,000 to meet any


n
m
m
ffs
sag
'rjhe V e " ir<? °f
0*
The Premier Motel of Australia.
Renovated from Roof to Basement.
SYDNEY.
NEW FEATURES
Extension of Winter Gar-
den.
New Sixth Floor.
New Fireproof Flat Con-
crete Roof.
New Rooms with Private
R. ths.
New Furnishings.
ATTRACTIVE SPECIALTIES
Comfort and Quietness. Every
Convenience and Quick Service.
Automatic Telephones in every
Hoorn. Private Safe Deposit.
Stenographer and Private Office
for use of Guests.
Choice of Rating. Room and
Breakfast or Full Board.
Meals—a la Carte or Table d'hote.
Apply Manager. WHAT WE ADVERTISE WE SUPPLY
-mir
m
\m
s
“Jtfusiralia"
Wfnter Car Jen
y
shortage or loss. Now, as the dollar is worth about
4s. 6d. of our money, 2.26 dollars equals 10s. 2d. a
bushel. Tempted by this high and certain price Mr.
Farmer put in and reaped a record crop of wheat,
which is held up all over the country. To lower the
high cost of living it is proposed by Congress to
sell Government wheat at 6s. 9d. a bushel, and debit
the difference of 3s. sd. to the Wheat Guarantee Fund.
At time of writing there is a panic in the Chicago
wheat pit, the central abyss for all such deviltry.
Pork, corn and wheat have all tumbled, and will
fall lower. It is related that one miller was fined
a million dollars last week by the Treasury, and
nothing was said in public. Millers and bakers have
been making money quicker than the Treasury could
print the notes. Three years ago The Bulletin
pointed out the vicious effect of our inflated cur-
rency, then £45,000,000, now £56,000,000 of notes;
and this is a good chance to emphasise the dictum
that everywhere an inflated currency is the basis of
high prices. In the United States they are suffer-
ing seriously from an over-issue of paper to the
extent of £2,600,000,000 of Federal reserve notes and
discounted and extended credits. The effort of 600,000
railroad workers to get Congress to give them
another $160,000,000 a year in wages is- a fleabite
compared with what will ensue if this country does
not contract its currency and get back on to a
sound money basis. Inflation is as bad as a world
war, and is less understood by the people.
♦
The Cadet Training' System.
The expert’s return volley:—
The correspondent (B. 28/8/’l9) who states that
the Senior Cadets are thoroughly instructed in the
handling of the rifle and properly supervised in their
rifle-shooting will find very few sergeant-majors and
not many of the boys to support him. It has been
the view of all the sergeant-majors that I have
met for some years past that the Cadet musketry
course is an expensive farce. And it has been part
of my business to meet sergeant-majors.
The rifle used by the Cadets is the Westley-Rich-
ards, which is necessarily only a toy, so that what-
ever they learn from it is mostly useless, as they
have to take up the Lee-Enfteld when they are drafted
into the Citizen Forces. The object of the Senior-
Cadet training should not be to make soldiers of the
boys. This is absurd, considering their age and
physique. At present far too much of their time
is devoted to purely military subjects. Out of the
64 hours they do in the year, 16 is given to musketry
and rifle-shooting, 24 to squad drill with and without
arms, and to section and platoon drill, and 24 to physi-
cal training. It would be far better to cut out some of
the military work, and substitute for it subjects which
would develop the boys’ physique, morale, initiative
and capacity for team work, and make them more
amenable to discipline. The result would be that when
they are drafted into the Citizen Forces they would
be far better material to work upon, and would be
more likely to make efficient soldiers.
It, is true that the officers of the Senior Cadets are
not treated properly by the Defence Department. Far
too much emphasis is laid upon the difference between
them and the officers of the Citizen Forces, with
serious results to their morale and efficiency. It
would be better to place them on the same foot-
ing as the Citizen Force officers as regards pay,
efficiency, examinations and training. This would
have a beneficial result on the efficiency of the
Senior Cadets, and would further mean that the
nation would have a larger supply of trained and
capable officers.
“Rio”: One comes across frequent com-
plaints about an “officer caste” in Australia
which seem to boil down to this: (1) Offi-
cers travel first-class, men second; (2)
officers have their meals apart from the men
and generally have better food; (3) officers
have servants. Now, are these things an-
tagonistic to Australian sentiment? The
Australian officer only enjoys those privi-
leges which are enjoyed also by the more
highly-placed in other callings, and as he
is appointed nowadays solely from the ranks
or from schools which are open to all-comers
without expense, it is quite in accordance
with Australian sentiment that he should
have some privileges. Fpr instance, the con-
cessions mentioned above are all possessed
by the officers of the Australian Mercantile
Marine, and not even Tom AValsh has asked
that they be curtailed. In all other branches
of the public service officers receiving over
a certain salary travel first-class. AVhymakean
exception of the Defence Department? As
to officers’ messes, the officer gets just the
same issue of food as the man. All extras
of food and drink are paid for by himself.
The sergeants also have their own mess, but
no one speaks of the sergeant caste. The
boss’s party and the shearers do not dine
together, and no one would be happier if
things were otherwise. Where then is tne
anti-Australianism in an officers’ mess? As
to batmen, if an officer is worth his pay
he has no time for grooming horses, cleaning
boots or washing up. It would be ridiculous
from a business point of view to pay a man
up to thousands a year for that sort of
thing. But somebody must do it. The heads
of a business do not sweep out the office or
clean the windows. Ask a bricklayer to
carry his own mortar or a miner to do his
own wheeling and he would see you and
the country to the Devil before he would
do it, yet we seem to tolerate the brick-
layer caste and the miner caste somehow.
As to swank, I have found less in the Dun-
trooner who at 23 is usually a major and
a D.S.O. than in the ex-ranker of the same
age, and less in either than in some of the
young civilians who adorn the offices of big
financial and commercial institutions.
*
O. C. Beale sends The Bulletin a report
of an address delivered by the chairman
(Sir Arthur Goldfinch) at the summer
meeting of the British Wool Council, held
in the middle of June, and summarises the
statements and conclusions as follows:
(1) That Australian and Maoriland wools have
been sold, as long and as much as possible, at prices
artificially forced downwards.
(2) That an attempt, prolonged for months, was
made (against the chairman’s advice) to force them
still lower to the extent of 74 p.e., while all the time
an open market would have brought just and
splendid profits to the Australian farmer, although
with the scandalous limitation of allowing him—
the actual producer of the wealth —only a half of his
profits.
(3) That whereas the English and Indian sheep-
farmers would not stand this any longer, it was ex-
pected that the Australian would submit for another
year at the very least, which means a loss to Aus-
tralian farmers of anything from 15 to 25 millions
sterling, possibly more.
(4) That these illicit gains, made out of Aus-
tralian farmers, are not going to the advantage of
the wearers of woollen clothing in Britain, but are
pocketed by the buyers of the raw wool.
The last point is certainly one of great im-
portance. Even if Australia is not getting
THE ECONOMISTS.
ALL: O noble fount that flows at will!
MEPHISTOPHELES: But take good heed lest any drop ye spill.
(They drink heavily.)
ALL (singing): We're jolly dogs, as drunk as logs,
And happy as five hundred hogs. — Goethe's "Faust."
the last penny that the market is prepared
to pay for its wool, it would not be inclined
to grumble if the people of Britain were
getting the benefit; for the price, at any
rate, is very high. But the chairman of
the British Wool Council declares that the
Council’s efforts to “stabilise” the price of
wool has failed, and that the consumers are
not benefiting:—
It was hoped that the ultimate consumers would
derive benefit from a certain proportion of the wool
being issued direct to users at guaranteed prices.
I am sorry to say there is no evidence that any such
advantage is being derived by consumers in all, or a
majority of, cases, and armarently the price of manu-
factured goods is being ruled mainly by the auction
prices—■
such prices, of course, being greatly in
excess of the prices paid for the Australian
wool.
“Ropeboy”: “And a little child shall lead
them” —only it was two children on this
occasion. At a N.S.W. South Coast coal-
mine the other day, between four and five
hundred employees lost a shift, and the
Railway Department’s coal supply was re-
duced by nearly a thousand tons, because
a couple of boys considered that they had
a grievance against the mine officials. They
refused to go to work until the manage-
ment complied with their demand, and when
the youngsters returned their lamps to the
lamp-cabin the men followed like a flock
of sheep. Many of the miners had already
proceeded to their working-places—a mat-
ter of a two miles’ walk in some instances —
only to be told that the boys had decided that
there should be no work that day. And
no work there was, and no man who be-
lieves in Direct Action has any right to
complain about it. For the very essence
of Direct Action is that you must not care
a straw what ill results happen to anybody
else-
It looks as if there will not be much diffi-
culty in putting through Parliament Lawson’s
proposal for a vote of £200,000 for Uni.
buildings in Melbourne, with a larger annual
grant than at present. As a preliminary
the Uni. Council lately snared State members
to the “shop” and convinced them that the
place was badly cramped. Premier Lawson
talks too of establishing tw r o hostels for
country students to supplement the accommo-
dation of the affiliated colleges. But all this
ought to be only part of a general scheme of
reform. The institution really doesn’t belong
to this generation at all.
A curious case of profiteering has hap-
pened at Melbourne. Barrels of imported
goods were being slung out of a liner, two
barrels in a sling. A new “union vigilance
officer” came on duty and ordered only one
barrel to be put in a sling, so as to increase
the cost of discharging and consequently the
price of the goods, thus putting up the cost
of living. As the vessel had a time-table to
keep it carried 150 tons of the cargo on to
Sydney, to be brought back later at more
expense and further increase in the cost of
living. It wasn’t suggested that there was
any grievance in the matter. Simply a new
vigilance officer came on duty. Being pos-
sibly of the order of the pimpled boy who
takes a pleasure in damaging cats, or the
kind who is intoxicated by being a bumble
in brief authority, he gave his order and
his creatures obeyed. The matter was men-
tioned in court, and the malignant or silly
purposelessness of it was tacitly admitted
when the representative of the Waterside
Workers promised to instruct that it
shouldn’t be done again. Nothing was said
about why it was done, or what gain there
was in it, or why the man who did it was
employed in a position of authority. There
wasn’t even any allusion to the fact that it
was profiteering inasmuch as the men sud-
denly put up their charges 50 per cent.
Leaving w’igs, gowns, and the Assembly
mace at State Parliament House, President
Manifold and Speaker Mackey, attended by
their principal officers, presented the
addresses-in-reply to Lieut.-Gov. Irvine in
the Executive Council Chamber at the "V ic.
Chief Sec.’s Dept. Sac suits were worn by
the two chieftains, the officers and the mem-
bers who accompanied them. Irvine came
in a sac suit, but evidently thought worse
of it, and slipped on a frock coat just be-
fore the Parliamentarians entered. The
next thing will be the abandonment of
“speeches from the throne.” You can’t do
this sort of thing in plain clothes any more
than you can any other pantomime.
The Westralian civil servant is
a great passive resister. Ex-Treasurer Gar-
diner discovered this to his sorrow, and now
Minister for Works George is bitterly com-
plaining about it. To save £4OOO a year in
rents George started the other day to re-
arrange Government offices in order to house
all State employees under State roofs. The
inside was taken out of one building so that,
with only a glass partition in between, the
permanent head of the department might
have an uninterrupted view of what the staff
was doing. With a feeling of good work
well done George then went away for the
week-end. On his return he found that the
glass had been frosted. What George said
at that stage is not on the files.
The Anglican synod in Adelaide has been
considering a motion that women should be
allowed to sit in it. Biblical and practical
reasons in support were cited, but there was
a general feeling that the Time is not Ripe,
and a committee is to consider the matter
and report next year. The argument
brought out the usual humorist, who sug-
gested that they should embrace women in
their gatherings. (Loud laughter.)
Gordon Carter, lately secretary of the Vic.
State Federation, toiled strenuously for
three years and won valuable concessions
for different branches of the service, especi-
ally helping the police to get an association,
and establishing the principle of four-fifths
of men’s pay for female teachers. His great
work, no doubt, weakened his defences
against the attack of double pneumonia and
bronchitis, which recently nearly carried him
off. But the State Federation was not un-
grateful. It very properly refused to let
him go without an expression of its deep
sorrow.
“Henry Horsecollar”: N.S.W. Labor-
leader John Storey, as depicted by himself
in his policy for pensioning grass-widows,
for giving the State charge of ladies in an
interesting condition, and for establishing a
portfolio of Maternity, is an interesting
study. He appeals to me as a sort of he-
Gamp, midwife in pants, Dorcas meeting
and Old Hen Bountiful. He has a good
bedside manner. He has some of the ele-
ments of a curate; some of the features of
the kindly old squire; some of the character-
istics of Mrs. Jellaby; and certain points
that suggest the bumble-bee or the harassed
domestic chookey with a large family, lie
means well, of course, but his policy of being
a spectacled grandmother to everybody, exas-
perates me. There isn’t a real man s job
in his programme, and there doesn’t seem
to be a healthy swear in him.
“Peter Pan” (from U.S.A.) : “No tobacco
in 1924” This is the new slogan of the
party which has just seen prohibition of
alcohol accomplished. A systematic cam-
paign is now under weigh tor the absolute
prohibition of tpbacco in any and all forms.
The co-operation and support of even
league opposed to liquor has been seemed.
The W 0 T.U. has opened a million-dollar
fund to'carry on the campaign ; millions of
pamphlets have been stored ready for broad-
casting, and followers have
to make 1920 a year of pitiless publicity
on the harmfulness of tobacco by distribut-
ing literature, writing letters to the papers
and using posters and stickers. Members
«e asked to protest to hotell and restaurant-
keeners who permit smoking. |hey have
actually got junior school-books into many
State Schools telling the kids, that then
daddy is committing a crime against them >
smoking in his own house.
“Lex” on “unconscionable interest .
Last 'week Acting Justice Owen, of N. S. Wales
declined to stop bankruptcy proceedings taken oy
the Sydney Mont de Pifltfl against Baron Rivieie
and his wife. Some interesting points were raised
from the standpoint of “remittance people. Lofton,
KC„ claimed on behalf of the Baron that the
interest charged was “harsh and unconscionable. _
So it would have been in the case of Sam Hordern ci
Eadith Walker. But the Baron and his attractive
missus had been living for months in a cloud of writs,
and they had to be brought back from Adelaide to
allow the big N. S. Wales pawnbrokery the cold
comfort of making them insolvents. A loan at
1000 per cent, would have been risky where such
people were concerned.
The device known as “pleading tne Money-
lenders Act” is as popular amongst a certain class
abroad as the “mouse in the meat-pie” is becoming
here. In London George Bower, a young man of
fashion, with a considerable private income, set up
the Act against four different money-lenders; and
while one of his suits was in progress he approached
a fifth Hebrew and tried for some more—at 300 per
cent. Justice Lush took the view that the Act
was not intended to benefit knowledgeable lads of
this type, and gave judgment for the full amounts
claimed by all Bower’s creditors.
The provision against “harsh and unconscionable
interest” is often used successfully for purposes of
blackmail, not every lender daring to come into
court and admit that he has charged hundreds per
cent, for his advances. And, again, the effect ,s
to prevent men getting money which might save
them from ruin. Take the case of a hawker who
is willing to give 10s. for £5 for a week to avoid
being sold up. It sounds unconscionable; yet it
might be good business for the hawker to pay it.
The Act only justifies itself in the case of semi-
imbeciles who have got into the hands of financial
blood-suckers. And that, of course, is where the
Baron fell in. There is probably not a usurer in
Australia who can teacli him anything about the art
of borrowing or the insolvency laws. His type
doesn’t get into the hands of money-lenders:
money-lenders, if they are unlucky, get into his.
In order to succeed in his application Loxton, K.C.,
would have had to establish that this experienced
young man of the world was a simpleton. Which
was absurd.


Would
You Set a Boy to Fig'ht a Growii ' s Man ?
NO It wouldn’t be fair.
Anil yet some people expect the youthful Australian
Iron and Steel Industry to compete on even terms
again st the giant enterprises of Europe and America.
When the Australian Industry is full-grown it will
he able to stand up against the competition of the
world—on equal terms, or anything like equal terms,
it fears no competitor.
But at present the terms are not equal. The Aus-
tralian Industry is young and is heavily handicapped
-—is paying high wages—heavy transport charges—
high prices for materials—and it has only a com-
paratively small output.
The Australian Iron and Steel Industry wants to
be allowed to work its hardest for the people and
for the future of Australia.
It wants to help build Australia into a great nation
—to make Australia self-reliant and self-supporting
—to make Australia safe from attack from without
—to make plenty of employment for Australian
citizens.
EVERY ENGINEER IN AUSTRALIA
is asked to assist to build up this Industry by using nothing but
AUSTRALIAN IRON AN
which has been proved equal to that made in any part of the world.
WILL YOU HELP?
Australian Steel for Australian WorKshops.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The living wage is the amount a family
can live on when the man who exports every-
thing to us has quite finished putting up the
prices.
It is a million pities that Ryan didn’t get
hold of Tasmania or Victoria instead of
Queensland as a field for his school-kid ex-
periments in political economy. The idea of
making all employers subject, without any
further reference to Parliament, to unlimited
taxation and unlimited liabilities for the sup-
port of the unemployed, and that in a State
where unemployment is now far above the
average, may not damage Australian indus-
try as a whole, but if the scheme becomes
law removable industries will tend to shift
out of Queensland and will simply send their
goods there free of duty. They will have
to move because no one will finance an in-
dustry with unknown and unlimited liabili-
ties hanging on to it. And if Queensland
suffers by a shifting of poptilati.op, there
will be a loud bellow that the white man is
quitting the North because he can’t live
there, and that the world’s one attempt at
growing a purely white race in the tropics
has failed. No power on earth will keep the
colored people out of the North if that
attempt fails. If Ryan and co. would holler
in the South and drive money and popula-
tion north they would do good service. By
doing the dancing dervish act in the North
and driving them south they are playing the
game of Black Australia.
In the most correct of tones, as befitted
a Lieut.-Governor, Irvine, speaking at Gaud-
Mayor Cabena’s feast, said he felt sure
Hughes recognised that the enthusiasm with
which he had been greeted was not merely
a recognition of work done, but a mani-
festation of that gratitude which consisted
of an anticipation of favors to come. _ The
highly-respectable guests had no misgivings
as to the meaning of his Ex’s. Avords. It
interpreted them as a masked warning to
Billy to walk circumspectly if he wished to
keep choice company. A few minutes later
Hughes declared that the country must have
a Government which has a clear and direct
mandate from the people—a reply which
conveyed the impression that the little man
had already made up his mind and would
seek the political company he thought fit.
The Labob Call (Melb.) solves the in-
dustrial problem:—
The solution lies in nationalisation. When niines
are nationalised we shall have industrial peace
amongst miners—not before.
Yet the nationalised mines at Wonthaggi
have a scandalous record of strikes, squab-
bles and perpetual unrest. Nationalisation,
pure and simple, hasn’t settled the problem
there; and it never will so long _as the
miners continue to scoff at arbitration.
Workers there prefer to down tools when a
dispute happens, and wait until either the
cupboard is empty or the management gives
in. Yet the Labor Call, fully aware of
these conditions, has not lately been ob-
served to spread out its old arbitration prin-
ciples on the front page.
The incendiarism at the South mine,
Broken Hill, which does some damage to the
“THE END OF A PERFECT DAY .”
WATT: "Glad to see you home again, Billy —you’re just in time to help wash up.”
co. and puts 1000 men out of work for a
year, is not a thing to be charged against
unionism. But it is the sort of thing that
wouldn’t be so likely to happen if unionists
made it clear that they regard fire-thugs as
bitter enemies whose doings throw men out
of work. Instead, the manner in which some
men who are allowed to lead or hang on to
unionism have clamored for the release of
the I.W.W. criminals suggests that the fire-
thug is a hero and a martyr.
W. M. Hughes at Melbourne:—
There are some here who have been speaking to
me about the possibility of resuming trade relations
with Germany. Well, gentlemen, you can choose.
If you want trade relations with Germany you can
get somebody else to lead you.
But ibe real question is What is Hughes
prepared"'f6-do to retain the trade for Aus-
tralia? Economically it makes not one
atom of difference whether Australia pays
its money away to Germany or U.S.A. or
Japan. From other points °f view, con-
sidering the present poverty of Germany
and the present financial power of some
other nations, it might be even safer tG
trade with Germany. Thus after the long,
long struggle with France there ensued a
prejudice against trading with that country,
whereas nothing was too good for the Prus-
sian ally. And the bitter fruits which we
have just eaten tell us that it would have
been far safer to have then traded with the
old, battered enemy than with the new, ambi-
tious friend.
X. S. Wales Labor-leader Storey broke
the amazing and disastrous news to the
Assembly the other day that the Savings
Bank is bankrupt. It is so bankrupt, he
said, that it has to spend £4 4s. to earn
£3 17s. What followed well illustrates the r
utter disregard of the public for the party
politician. If even a few people had be-
lieved John the natural result would have
been a rush of poor folk to save their little
bit of money. But nobody moved. Nobody
even went to the office with an inquiry.
The party system was never really covered
with more contempt.
Taking no chances, Lawson went as far
as Albury to meet McPherson, his second in
command, when the Vic. Treasurer was re-
turning from his European-American trip.
No time was lost subsequently in letting it
be known that McPherson is as staunch a
supporter of Lawson as he was when he
left: Bowser’s retirement has apparently not
overwhelmed the Treasurer with grief. In-
terest centres chiefly in the wanderer’s re-
commendation of Chief Railway Commis-
sioner. He claims that he has found a suit-
able man for importation.
An oflicial memo, “forwarded by direction”
and headed “I-ess Men More Work” breaks
the news to the cress that, whereas the per-
manent staff of the P.M.G.’s Department
numbered 21.165 in 1913-14. “it has been
reduced to 20,552 in 1918-19, or 643 less
officers to do 38 per cent, more business.”
Haying laid that foundation the proclama-
tion proceeds to thrash the big drum of
advertisement properly:—
Under other administrations the staff lias generally
grown with the revenue, but the new order has
achieved what was hitherto deemed impossible.
This result will be understood by business men as
the acme of business management.
Somebody should do a picture of Webster
confidently throwing himself on the bosom of
the business man for a testimonial, while
the business man calls to the office-boy to
correct Webster’s arithmetic.
The Toryism of the Vic. National Fed-
eration was revealed when reform of the
State Uppah House was discussed at the
Bendigo Conference —the conference which
Hughes opened but did not otherwise attend.
On behalf of the executive committee E. G,
Ham proposed household suffrage as the
qualification for candidates and electors, but
ill 9 progressives were out-voted on that and
every pther amendment. Even a proposal
to reduce the property qualification for candi-
dates from LjG iG f25-ammal valuation was
defeated. The Stupid'Party"is sul! tl'2£. to
its brand.
The Westralian Government started a big
State saw-milling business in the sanguine
days, and it mopped up a lot of the old local
Private Enterprise business. But it was a
disastrous affair, and it is proposed to sell
it because the revenue can't stand the loss.
The prospective buyer is Private Enterprise
—but foreign P.E. this time, so all Westralia
gains is another absentee profiteer.
When Holman came into office in N. S.
Wales (1910) the.annual bill for interest
was £3,117,472. Now it is £0,323,000. Hoi
man and Co. have successfully acquired
rather more debt burden in nine years than
their predecessors did in 54. That, of course,
is not counting war debts. Bill Ilohenzolleru
wrecked an empire in 44 years. Bill Hol-
man hadn’t his chances, but his results have
been astonishing.
Opposition-leader Storey (N.S.W.) has
a habit of calling Premier Holman a
Domain orator. Holman said the statement
was hardly true, for he spoke in the Domain
only once. Storey said he accepted Hol-
man’s statement that he spoke in the Domain
only once, but all the same lie had heard
him several times. They call this sort of
thing clever in Parliament. But what it
really signifies is that Parliament, under the
party system, isn’t a serious business insti-
tution, but the home of humbug and make-
believe.
There is a humorous side to the disclosure
made by Customs Minister Massy Greene
regarding sheep-dip. A few weeks ago squat-
ters. etc., were told that disaster would over-
take the Australian wool industry (and im-
porters’ profits) if the sheep-breeder was
forced to use the horrid, home-made dip.
The Australian thing was ineffective rub-
bish ! —the only dip for the proper safe-
guarding of Australian sheep was the
genuine imported. Now it turns out that
the foreign makers were quite prepared to
put their sacred name upon a local article
in the hope of keeping the nest warm for
the foreign stuff when shipping increased
and the present embargo on imports is lifted.
No wonder Massy Greene stood pat to Pro-
tective principles; he had the joker in his
hand.
The German worked for Germany all the
time. Howard Carr, a former Australian
musical conductor, now well-established in
London, wrote recently of the days before
the war:—
The patriotic ITun composer found his wares so
much in demand that, in leasing his music to Eng-
lish managers, he stipulated the engagement of a
compatriot as conductor. Naturally the alien con-
ductor gave preference to orchestral players of his
own nationality, who frequently undersold their British
competitors. In 1914 there was only one Eng-
lishman employed as conductor among all the Lon-
don theatres producing light opera, and I cannot
recall one play composed by an Englishman appear-
ing during the early part of that year.
The Hun at home played into the hands of
the Hun abroad; and in return the Hun
abroad played into the hands of the Hun at
home. So the circle went on expanding and
expanding, practically all of it dependent
in the first place upon the idea, fostered
always by the Freetrader, that the foreigner
is a superior creature.
The easy notion that Billjim, whom we
have undertaken to provide with a job, can
be “put on the land” doesn’t get much com-
fort from the annual report of Macka.v,
Conservator of Forests in Victoria. “There
is,” he says, “no foundation for the common
belief that the open-air . life and healthy
surroundings are attractive to them.” Nearly
200 men were tried at Heathcote and Rush-
worth forests, and the labor was simple and
light, consisting of cleaning up and stacking
dry debris, and in a few cases felling young
timber. The pay was 9s. a day, of which
2s. was deducted for food ; cooks were sup-
plied free, and so were blankets, working
boots, oilskins and tents. Neverthelessafter the
first pay-day the job was thrown jup, as a
rule, and Bill drifted back to the city.
When the convention proposed by Bavin,
M.L.A. (N.S.W.), meets to draft an
amended Federal Constitution, it is to be
hoped that it won’t forget to wipe out that
insane proviso which says that no State
may be subdivided without its own consent.
The only reason why any part of a State
desires to secede is that it wants to get away
from the existing capital and the ruling
clique there, and set up a capital of its own ;
and the capital always objects as a matter
of course. Since the absurd clause was in-
vented Melbourne and Adelaide have swelled
so much that they now constitute a strong
majority of the population of their States,
and Sydney is rapidly getting to the same
point. The position has been reached that
no territory can legally secede from the Big
City except with the Big City’s consent,
which is unobtainable. There is no appeal
either to the Commonwealth or to the
British Government. So unless the Consti-
tution is altered illegal secessions are going
to happen. When there is no arbitration
court the strike becomes justifiable in the
nature of things. When there is no appeal
except to the defendant who always gives
himself the verdict, there is a tendency to
bash the defendant. Many a perfectly good
defendant has been spoiled in this way.
WORLD-CHANGES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Bolshevism Rampant.” “General Labor Unrest.”
“Rise in Prices of Leather Goods and Foodstuffs.”
Aye, to the uttermost straw! Burden on burden still,
Lest we should lift our eyes from the shadows and
sorrows and pain!
Free? We are free to suffer and smile as our
s< ourged hearts spill
Wrung drops from a wound bled white, red lees
of a pulseless vein.
Oh, future of splendid visions, our hope and our
heritage,
Whereof shall be justified the dumb, laborious
years ?
You falter and fail before us, through the pitiless
strife we wage,
Our eyes, as the eyes of children, are blind with
fruitless tears.
You, who have cramped our hearts and rendered our
spirits blind,
Shut us from ease and beauty with iron walls of
greed!
Here, from the coign you gave us, we look to the
bourne assigned,
And at harvest how shall you wonder if the fruit
be red as the seed ?
You have reft the sacred lamp from the altar-stone
of our dreams,
Oh, self-styled masters of men, with a lust in-
satiate I
Barren and foul are our temples, lighted by lurid
gleams—
And set in the midmost shrine the god of a mon-
strous Hate 1
You, who have lessoned us hatred, how shall you
brook this thing?
Sired of a thousand horrors, suckled at breasts
of woe,
With milk of mothers sick with travail and sorrow-
ing,
How shall you brave the fang bared white for
your overthrow?
For the term is set and the hour is blind with the
wing of Change 1
Peace pales to a nebulous glow, storm-veiled and
bewildered with shame.
And no man knows of his heart shall it fail in a
dark found strange,
’Neath skies turned blood with the glare of Revo-
lution’s flame.
Perchance there is hope hereafter —who reads on the
scroll to be?
Old 6torms and shadows pass from Being’s immu-
table skies ;
But night shall come upon them who have bartered
men’s misery
Kre ever the level dawn rain light on our hag-
gard eyes.
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.


OUT OF BUSINESS PRO TEM.
OLD-MAN TIME: “The excitement of the last few years has been too much for me. Here, take these things, and carry on for a while.”


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
Registered <r"BH Brand>
Producers of Lead in the following forms—
Refined Lead, Corroding' Lead, Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated),
Super-refined Lead, Chemical Lead.
Also of—
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated), Spelter,
and tlie following Alloys and Metallic Products —
Antimonial Lead, Linotype Metal, Litharge (Industrial and Assay),
Bearing Metals, Leaded Zinc Pigments, Blue Powder.
Purchasers on a Specially Favorable Tariff of Silicious Silver-Lead Ores, Slags, etc.
containing Silver and Lead, Lead Drosses, Zinc Drosses.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE—
H. Li. SHACIvELL, Secretary.
LONDON OFFICE: PINNERS HALL, AUSTIN FRIARS, E.C. 2
A. J. SMITH. London Secretary.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY—
R. N. KIRK (Agent).
ADELAIDE OFFICE: 62 BROOKMAN’S BUILDING, ADELAIDE—
A. W. LEWIS (Agent).
SMELTING WORKS. PORT PIRIE. S.A.
COKE WORKS. BELLAMBI, N.S.W.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel Gelignite Safety Fuse
Samsoniic Blasting Gelatino Detonators
Gelatine Dynamite Dynamite Cartridges
ENSURE, THE SAFETY of YOUR ESTATE
BY APPOINTING
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE Company (Ltd.)
Executor and Trustee under Your Will, Trustee of Your Marriage or other
Settlement, Attorney Under Power, or Agent.
Trust Funds under the Company’s control exceed £15,000,000.
MODERATE CHARGES. ECONOMICAL MANAGEMENT.
UNDOUBTED SECURITY.
Write or call for Booklet, which explains the Company’s Methods & Charges.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Manager: R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE. Secretary: R. L. MASSIE.
The WILD
CAT COLUMN
Tooiiey’s, Ltd., of the Standard Brewery,
Sydney:—
Net To He- Re-
Profits. Dividends. si rvr-'. serves.
July, ’ll.. £20,398 6p.c.= £12,000 £8,398 £58,268
Jan., ’12.. 26,867 7 ~ ~ i I,UOO 12,867 71,135
July, ’12.. 21,086 7 ~ ~ 11,000 10,086 81,221
Jan., ’13.. 27,750 7 „„ 11,000 13,750 91,971
July, ’13.. 23.187 7 „„ 11,000 9,187 101,153
Jan., 11.. 33,120 8 „„ 16,000 17,120 121,578
July, ’ll.. 27,360 8 „„ 16,000 11.360 132,938
Jan., ’15.. 35,692 8 ~ „ 16,000 19.692 152,630
July, ’15., 24,511 8 „ ~ 16,000 8,511 101,114
Jail., ’16.. 22,521 8 ~ ~ 16.000 6,521 167,065
July, ’lO.. 21,203 8 ~ „ 16,000 5,203 172,868
Jan., '17.. 17,885 8 „„ 16,000 1,885 174,753
July, ’17.. 19,024 8 ~ ~ 16,000 3,024 177,777
Jan., ’lB.. 23,163 8 ~ ~ 16,000 7,163 184,940
July, ’lB.. 23,800 8 „ „ 16,000 7,805 192.745
Jan.. 19.. 23.581 8 „ „ 16,000 7,581 200,320
July, ’19.. 22,393 8 ~ ~ 16,000 6,393 206,719
The beer drinker was apparent.y ass seared
of the ’Hu than the quick-luncher and the
tea-tippler, if the slight fnll.ng-uff in
Toohey’s profits compared with the collapse
of Sargent’s figures is a fair guide. January
half-years have always been the better beer-
absorbers, yet gross profits of this brewery
have only dropped from £152,057 six months
tigo to £148,148 for the past term. Though,
owing to the management having made some
accounting changes recently, comparison of
present gross profits with those prior, to the
advent of six o’clock closing is of no value,
the co. has not suffered nearly so severely
from restricted trading as many people
anticipated. Certainly during the past four
years only £45,575 has been tacked lo visible
reserves compared with £102,87(5 for the
previous four. But during the latter period
£BOOO more was handed out in divs. That
means that the early-closing period has been
£49,301 visibly poorer than the gorgeous
run experienced between 1911-15. But
probably most of this falling-off has been
due not to dry nights but to increased costs
and loss of custom owing to the absence of
the Diggers. Judging by the N. S. Wales
Statistician’s figures compiled to a year ago
the consumption of local beer is now very
little below what it was just prior to early-
closing. The drink bill is as large as it
ever was, but this is .due to heavier
excise duties and consequent increased prices.
For a time the trade got smaller profits than
formerly came when the turnover was not so
large ; but as a result of a neat, arrangement
come to between breweries and nour&. .
associations over a year ago, the former were
able to squeeze a little more from sales.
Toohey’s has at any rate not been visibly
hurt by the war conditions; the 8 p.c. divs.
which started just before Wilhelm took out
a prohibition order against the rest of the
world have been maintained with ease.
Over the two four-year periods the
balance-sheet figures have moved in this
way:—
1911. 1915. 1919.
Liabilities .. ..£47,119 £82,447 £109,924
Breweries, hotels, etc. . . 324,975 399,240 396,219
Stocks 72,703 90,147 160,073
Book debts .. .. 121,187 174,643 165,738
Cash and War Loan .. 2,523 3,562 15,613
Between 1911-15 the management was put-
ting a lot of cash into extending the brewery
and purchasing properties, and surplus liquid
assets were built up by only £36,611. But
during the past four years there has been no
inducement to tie up further funds in
machinery and pubs, so after maintaining
plant in a “high state of efficiency” the co.
has been piling up its more soluble assets,
and during the recent period surplus liquid
assets have been strengthened by £45,595.
There are still doubts about the future of
the beer industry in N. S. Wales. If Pre-
mier Holman’s recent policy speech counts
for anything, then the breweries have ahead
of them the promise of a fierce fight for
existence. The six o’clock closing was timed
to lapse six months after the declaration of
peace. Now it is proposed to continue the
arrangement for a further 18 months, during
which time there is to be a referendum to
decide, by bare majority, whether the Ma
State is to go dry. Meanwhile the matter
of “equitable” compensation ill the event of
prohibition is to be looked into by a Com-
mission. Also the old Local Option system
is to go, and a Licenses Reduction Board is
to be substituted. Unfortunately, by the
time the referendum is takqn the elector will
not have had an opportunity of viewing even
the early effects of this latest innovation,
which has proved a great success in Vic. in
shutting up the undesirable drmk-shop and
elevating the standard of the others. Greater
Melbourne 13 years ago had St>2 pubs, and
the Board decided that 457 were ample to
meet the city’s thirst. So far 308 of the 400
excess hotels have been closed, a quarter of
a million compensation having been paid—
not by the State, but by a levy on the re-
maining hotels. But interest at present
centres in the possibilities of licensed liquor
being blotted out altogether; and though,
judged on present form, the odds are on the
temperate man saving the Trade, brewery
backers are very shy on the market.
* * * •
The Federal Mutual Insurance Co. of
Australia ( Sydney), which began with a
deficit of £4039 representing flotation ex-
penses :
Towards
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
1912.. £4,039
1913.. £3425 Nil £3425 614
Further preliminary exes., £247 861
Reserves.
1914.. 1898 Nil 1898 1,037
1915.. 4188 Nil 4188 5,225
1916.. 6904 8 p.c. = £3076 3828 9,053
1917.. 3965 8 „ „ 3099 866 9,919
1918.. 3284 8 „ ~ 3099 185 10,104
1919.. 4677 10 „ „ 4039 638 10,742
There is more mutuality about this young
concern at present than is common with
‘‘mutual” fire offices. In none of the older
concerns does any of the surplus flow into
the pockets of policy-holders —unless they
happen to be shareholders, too. 9he
“mutual” shareholder, in fact, need not
necessarily place his insurance with his
own co., and may purchase the shares on
the market merely as an investment. The
difference between the Federal Mutual and
other allegcdly-mutual offices is that the
former is still getting in capital; and its
shares, which are not listed on ’Change,
“are available to people with good insurance
accounts who are prepared to support (lie
co.” This means that practically all the
profits of the Federal Mutual are the pro-
perty of policy-holders who have backed
their risks by taking up shares.
In all insurance cos. it has been the
early bird who has caught the fat worm, it
he has managed to escape the snares of the
fowler. A glance at the growth of capital
of eight local offices which have survived
gives surprising results: —
Cupita-
Paid Capital \ bscd.
£ £ £
Aust. Mutual ..1899 25.000 1919 135,000 110,000
Col Mutual ..1902 62,500 1919 300.008 237,508
Merc. Mutual . . 1896 22.500 1919 150,000 47,500
Nit (ML) ..1917 100,000 1919 200,000 100,000
New Zealand ..1912 300,000 1918 600,000 300,000
Queensland ..1908 75,000 1918 350,000 275,000
South British ..1912 100.000 1919 500,000 400,0-00
United. . ..1912 100,000 1919 180,000 80,000
The increase of capital in these eight cos. is
£1,(>30,008. of which £1.550,008 represents
capitalised surpluses. The policy-holder in any
of the cos. who now wants to get his whack
of the profits lias to buy in at market
, ;'' . : "o him returns varying from
fri:" •i'rie'" earlier holders in the
Federal Mutual, who took the chances of
the large infant mortality among such cos.,
are now getting 10 p.c. Late-comers have
been asked for a 2s. Od. premium on the £1
shares paid to ss. as their contribution to the
organisation built up out of earlier share-
holders’ money, and the 10 p.c. thus means
G§ p.c. to them. The margin which share-
holding-policyholders get over and above a
fair interest return on their money—and
which represents the profit which they are
making out of their insurances—is. not wide
so far. The question is whether ‘insurance
history is going to repeat itself in the case
of the Federal Mutual, and whether its
early birds are going to feed on the fat
worms as some other offices have done. Fire
business is still, on the whole, very profit-
able ; so if this office can become favorably
known it has a chance.
What matters most to the man with risks
to sell is the protection which the co. offers
its policy-holders. First of all, look at the
co.’s underwriting record to date
Net Expense Loss
Premiums. Expenses. Losses. Rate. Rate.
1915.. £25,520 £13,303 £9,636 52.1 p.c. 37.8 p.c.
1916.. 32,303 14.981 12,292 46.4 p.c. 38.1 p.c.
1917.. 35,356 17,942 15,508 50.7 p.c. 43.9 p.c.
1918.. 44.029 25,724 16,661 58.4 p.c. 37.8 p.c.
1919.. 45,372 27,180 15,647 59.9 p.c. 34.5 p.c.
That table is very satisfactory—particularly
the loss rate, the management having selec-
ted its risks instead of attempting to swell
its figures by gambling in more hazardous
lines. The expense rate is certainly heavy,
and though that is unavoidable in a young
concern there is another explanation. The
directors have been side-stepping the absurd
War-time Profits Tax, which penalises young
cos. with no pre-war standard. If exes, had
been cut during the past couple of years the
Federal Treasury would have grabbed a big
slice of the surplus ; so the management has,
quite justifiably, been laying out money on
organising and making the co. better known.
After payment of the current div. .the
Federal Mutual had funds of £51,129, made
up of paid capital £40,387 and the £10,742
of reserves shown in the first table. In
other words, there are funds, apart from
incoming premiums, to cover more than the
aggregate losses of the past three years.
These funds are equal to 113 p.c. of last
year’s net premiums. So, though still an.
infant, it is able to offer reasonably good
protection to policy-holders. One striking
feature of the Federal Mutual is that none
of its capital is represented by the organisa-
tion or establishment accounts which so
often mar the balance-sheets of young in-
surance offices. The whole of the outlay on
organisation and extension has been charged
direct to Profit and Loss. Hence there are
no intangible assets on the books. Assets at
June 30 were distributed in this way: public
securities and deposits, £20,358; mortgages
and investments, £13,221; premises. £7324 •
cash and book debts, £14,043; odds and
ends, £2555.
The Mutual Stoke. Ltd. (Melbourne)
Writ-
ten To Ro- Re-
Pronts. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Jnly, f; £ £ e
1907.. 8,198 5 p.c. = 5,000 3498 7,088
1908.. t 0,373 £5/8/4 „ ~ 5,417 4956 12,041
1909. 5/10/8 „ „ 5.834 1400 3384 15.42 S
1910. .12,655 7/8/4 „ „ 7,083 2448 3124 18,558
1911.. 14.123 7/18/4 „ „ 9,233 1026 3864 22,410
1912.. 16.936 9/11/8 „ „ 11,979 1813 3114 25,560
1913. .17,451 10 „ „ 12,500 1500 3451 29,011
1914.. 18.077 10 „ „ 12,500 1500 4077 33,088
1915.. 14.442 10 „ „ 12,500 1942 35,030
1916.. 15.732 10 ~ ~ 12.500 1242 1990 37,020
1917.. 16.539 10 „ ~ 12,500 2000 2039 39,059
1918, ; 20,006 10 ~ ~ 12.500 5000 2506 41.565
Transferred to capital, £12,500.. 29,065
Prefx. Writ-
CS p.c.) Ordinaries. ten Off.
1919. .21,562 £417 10 p.c. =£13,125 £2Bll |,.
Taxation reserve.. .. 3000 j
Twelve months ago paid capital was
£125,000 and the co. had accumulated
£41,502 of reserves. But since almost half
of these funds were tied up in premises and
plant, the directors recently decided that
they could do with more capital to finance
the rapid expansion of the business and
carry the more expensive stocks. Nominal
capital was accordingly increased from
125,000 to 200,000 £1 ordinaries, and 50,000
8 p.c. £l. cumulative prefs. were also author-
ised. So'far the only new money got in has
been from the issue of 25,000 prefs.. though
while they were on the job the directors
made the ordinaries’ 10 p.c. a little sweeter
by a one-in-10 bonus share issue out of re-
serves.
The flow of War Loan money has suited
the Mutual Store very well, for its gross
profits have bounded ahead in this way:—
1914 .. £60,860 1917 .. £61,462
1915 .. 56,710 1918 .. 68,745
1916 .. 68,798 1919 .. 79,037
Expenses have climbed steadily, too; and
taxes for the past year called for over three
times the amount required five years ago.
Still, there has been a gradually increasing
margin for shareholders. There is a reflec-
tion of the times in the growth of the book
debts— five years ago customers owed the
co. £28,970, but iliey have now run the bill
up to £39,538. In otiiei* words, all but a
few pounds of the profit accu! I ?. uln, £C!- since
1914 has been required to provide credit
for customers.
This comparison shows the expansion of
the business over the past 10 years and
since the war:—
1909. 1914. 1918. 1919.
Liabilities . . £85,177 £69,726 £70,988 £69,742
Property .. 103,625 103,625 103,625 103,625
Plant, etc. . . 12,178 14,322 12,950 17,611
Stock . . . . 64,029 85,974 94,928 104,540
Rook debts . . 25,090 30,157 34,022 44,536
Cash .. .. 300 1,487 3,278 6,307
Between 1909-14 £25,000 of new capital w r as
got in, and a similar amount was recently
raised by the pref. issue. Meantime, apart
from the influence of these capital increases,
the surplus of the book values of stocks,
hook debts and cash over liabilities expanded
from £4242 in 1909 to £22,892 in 1914. and
now it is £35,041. The more or less liquid
position has thus shown a net improve-
ment in 10 years of over £31,000. Lately
the co. has been making considerable ex-
tensions, and £ll,Bll has been laid out
during the past two years; all but £4OOO
of these additions to fixed assets has, how-
ever, been written off out of profits. The
book value of premises has remained sta-
tionary for many years; but undoubtedly
the properties are now worth much more
than they used to be. Which means that
the security for shareholders’ capital (it is
not necessary to speak of creditors) has
been improved by enhanced property
values in addition to the accumulation of
visible reserves. Considering the amount
of capital tied up in premises, shareholders
have been doing very well indeed. Whether
the future will be as prosperous as the past
depends on how the Commonwealth recovers
from its war troubles. The stoppage of the
flow of tens of millions of borrowed money
and the awakening which must soon come
to the public that it has to settle clown
to working off its peace and war debts may
mean a quieter time for traders. Also the
threatened control of retail prices for cloth-
ing suggested by the Interstate Commission
(a maximum 83£ p.c. is proposed.) may
affect the profits of some of the retail con-
cerns.
Broken Uiljl South Silver Mining Co.:
Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
June, 1911.. £77,605 £60,000 £6,087 £lll,OOO
Dee., 1911.. 128,134 90,000 5,30! 143,833
June, 1912.. 141,639 120,000 5,684 159,78 S
Dec., 1912.. 217,776 170,000 5,809 201,755
June, 1913.. 119,936 160,000 5,698 155,993
Dec., 1913.. 177.091 140.000 5.561 187,523
June, 1914.. 146.756 140,000 5,597 188,682
Dec., 1914.. 95.082 Nil 6.116 277,648
June, 1915.. 136,291 30,000 12,520 371,419
Dec., 1915.. 163,569 90,000 6,900 435.388
June, 1916.. 223,110 120,000 10,294 531,204
Dec., 1916.. 243,348 120,000 16,511 638,041
June, 1917.. 249,192 120,000 15,734 751,499
Dec., 1917.. 169,685 120,000 15,005 786,179
June, 1918.. 165,291 120,000 50,000 781,470
Co. reconstructed —•
Special div., £60,000 .. .. 721,470
Returned to shareholders, £68,832 .. 652,638
Plant written up, £340,805 .. 993,443
Transferred to capital, £705,000 .. 288,443
Other writings-up and adjustments
making reserves .. .. .. 390,091
Written
June, Profits. Dividends. off.
1919.. £344,113 15p.c. = £120,000 £31,780 £582,418
As usual the track between the old co. and
the new is not well blazed, and a good deal
has to be guessed at. Still, the guessing is
mostly a matter affecting the reserves; and
the reserves of a mining co. are not gener-
ally worth much consideration. Reserves
are supposed to he assets existing in excess
of the capital; but many a mining co. lias
claimed reserves when even the capital has
been lost. Recent occurrences in which
South shareholders have been most interested
are briefly ns follows; —
The old co. (11. H. South S. M. Co., N.L.) was
iu 200,000 shares, 69,092 of them paid to 9s. od.
and tiie balance to £l. On the fully-paid shares
10s. od. was returned (£68,832) to make all shares
equal. A further £60,000 (6s. per share) was
cut up as a final div. in the old co.
Four shares were then issued for each one in the
old co., the latter being liquidated.
A “special reserve” of £800,805 appears in
the first accounts of the new co. No part of
it cun be traced in the new I*, and L.
account. Presumably it consists of reserves,
disclosed and undisclosed, taken over from the
old co. The £844,113 shown as the year’s
nrofit is the amount carried to Appropria-
tion account. Possibly the true balance is
larger than that, the extra amount being
included in the special reserve shown above.
Still, this is doubtful. Something of a check
may be applied by watching the change in
the liquid position during the year:—
June, 1918. June, 1919.
Assets other than mine and
plant £1,024,825 £984,326
Liabilities 265,891 240,826
Surplus .. .. £758,934 £743,500
So the surplus of more or less liquid assets
is £15,434 down; and meantime the following-
payments have been made :
Ordinary dividends .. ..£120,000
Special distributions .. .. 128,832
Additions to plant .. . . 93,636
£342,468
In addition some smaller provisions have
been made —tlie reserve to meet income tax
and royalties, for instance, has been in-
creased. (This reserve has been reckoned
as a liability in these calculations.)
But all this is not true profit; for there
is wear and tear of plant to come out of it ;
and the 1(54,560 tons of ore taken out of the
mine will never grow in the old stopes again.
And there is also development to be paid for,
and accidents to be insured against. In
the past year not much development of the
expensive kind was done. Only lift, of
shaft-sinking was carried out, partly because
competent labor has been scarce. So the
directors appropriate a liberal £37,500 for
future development, besides £90,000 to pay
for tlie new plant which is to replace what
was burned recently. The fire which did
(his damage was one of the “accidents” of
the industry. General-manager Wainwriglit
reckons that the loss in plant (apart from
anything else) amounts to £70.000, while
the insurances were £35,457.- It will, he
reckons, take about 12 months to carry out
the replacements, ifs to the special appro-
priation for development, it is quite a fair
thing in view of the fact that the year’s
revenue has been swollen by sales of metal
which the world’s industries have not ab-
sorbed. On the other hand, it is doubtful
whether the full value of the metal pro-
duced and not marketed has been taken into
account. There may, of course, be a very
severe slump in prices: but in spite of large
accumulations, nothing of the sort seems
likely to happen quickly. Price levels are
all high, and the principal factor in making
them high will be with us for many years—
the enormous increase in paper money, etc.
The South, in common with other Broken


The advantage of having battery charging current
on tap in the home garage is now within the reach
of every motorist. The G.E. Mercury Arc Battery
Charger makes any ordinary lighting circuit a source
of energy for starting, lighting, and ignition bat-
teries. Its cost is a mere trifle compared with the
convenience and economy of home charging. An
overnight boosting charge every few weeks will not
only increase the efficiency of a battery, but will
also lengthen the life of the plates You should
get one of these outfits. Australian General Electric
Company’, Wentworth Avenue, Sydney; and corner of
Queen and Little Collins Streets, Melbourne^— Advt.
Aluminoferric works wonders 1 One pound will
clarify 2000 gallons of water. You throw it into
the water and allow it to dissolve. In about two
hours all the impurities will start to precipitate and
the water will be left clear and pure. Will not
harm cattle or stock. Use it in very small propor-
tions when clearing water for household use. Sold
bv storekeepers everywhere—or direct from William
Adams & Co. Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide
Brisbane, Perth. — Advt. I 2
For grinding all classes of material in Ball Mills
and Tube Mills it is necessary to have a suitable
grinding medium. The mines ill West Australia,
also numerous cement plants, are using balls of foiged
tyre steel, and find that they give excellent results.
These balls may be obtained in various sizes from
the Austral Otis Engineering Co. of Melbourne, who
have put in a special plant for forging them, and
can give delivery of most sizes from stock. 11ns
company also manufactures forged steel shoes and
dies for battery work. — Advt. # ‘ 3
Pioneer Wood Stave Pipe.—Letter received from G.
11. Olding, Parramatta ltoad ; Sydney, 20th March,
1919: “In reply to your inquiry we have pleasure in
stating that the wood pipe laid down in our smiths’
shop, which conveys the blast from the fans to the
smiths’ forges, has proved in every way satisfactory.
We have not had to renew any part, and the pipe is
as good as when laid down five (5) years ago.—(Sgd.)
G. 11. Olding.” Send for illustrated catalogue.
The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., (H. 0.) Burns
Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W. P.O. Add.: Box 1576
G.P.0., Sydney.— Advt.
» » * *
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.—Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink’s Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723.— Advt.
♦ * * *
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates simnlied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: f Lane, Melbourne. —ADVT.
* * »
“Robey” Patent Uniflow Steam-engines, supplied in
powers ranging from 100 to 1000 indicated h.p. The
“Robey” Uniflow Engine represents the latest devel-
opment in the construction of high-class steam-
engines. Highly efficient and economical in steam
consumptions. Suitable for high steam pressures and
all temperatures of superheat. Specially suitable
for small floor space. Catalogues and complete in-
formation from sole representatives, Arthur Leplas-
trier & Co., Head Office, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel*
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. —Advt.
* * * •
Laboratorv Glassware and Apparatus, Assav
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s' & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. 11. B. Selby ti Co.,
Ltd., 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourlce Street, Melb.— Advt.
T. H. Palmer, 8.E., Fel. Chem. Soc., etc., consult-
ing engineer, valuing, organising, technical advice,
mining, metallurgy, flotation and selective flotation
processes, Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 Pitt
Street, Sydney. Cables and Telegrams: “Remlap,
Melbourne.”— Advt.
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Loss ol Profits
Insure in
Tke 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
CF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital
Subscribed Capital
Paid-up Capital ..
Income (Cross) 1918
i Established
.. £250,000
194,235
96,497
.. 457,852
1910.
acents wanted,
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
Wolfram, Scheelite
and Molybdenite.
PRICES AT PRODUCING CENTRES:
MOLYBDENITE:
85 per cent, or over, 100/- for each
unit MoS3.
WOLFRAM AND SCHEELITE.
65 per cent, or over, 52/6 for each
unit WO3.
Enquiries Invited relative to
LOWER GRADES of the above
Minerals.
DALCETY S CO. LTD.,
Commonwealth Government Agents.
The Pacific Cable Board
BEST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, etc.
A “WEEK-END” rate is now available
from Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada, also for the United States of
America, to be posted from Canada.
WEEK-END messages are accepted _ up to
midnight on Saturday for delivery in Great
Britain and Canada on the following
Monday morning.
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC.
Daily
Ordinary. Deferred. Week-end.
/ 9d. (minimum
115/-, 20 words)
1/6
j 7d. (minimum
1 11/8,20 words)
Gt. Britain .. 3/-
New Zealand.. 4id.
Canada .. 2/4 1/2
u.5.a... ..«.*>» wtoWggjßSS
Week-end Service with the United Kingdom
and U.S.A. has been temporarily suspended.
Argentine, Brazil, Chili and Peru, 1\ est
Indies, Central America and other rates on
application. Cable forms, Deferred and
Week-end Regulations mav be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
77 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1346 (3 lines).
Queen’s House, Queen St., Melbourne. Tel. 2588.
J. MILWARD. Manager in the Pacific,
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. ZH
NOTICE .
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society Ltd.
On and after the Ist September the Business! of the above
Society will be conducted at
“DALTON HOUSE,” 115 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
A. Victor Leggo & Co.
Melbourne -Sydney — Brisbane.
Manufacturers Metallurgists Merchants.
Exporters and Importers.
Specialties: INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS, INDUSTRIAL MINERALS,
ORES, METALS AND RAW MATERIALS.
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Other Goods.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
Hill cos., gains by that. Incidentally, it
must expect to suffer in having to face
higher wages and other costs.
Although comparatively little development
work has been done during the year, some
very remarkable bodies of ore have been
found. The average value of the 164,875
tons of ore mined in the 12 months was
14.7 p.c. lead, 7.30 z. silver and 13.9 p.c.
zinc. Of the total just under 20 p.c. was
drawn from the deepest working level
(1270 ft.), and the average value of that
ore was 15.2 p.c. lead, 8.40 z. silver and 14.7
p.c. zinc. But not only was the ore from
the bottom level of the mine, where the
greatest quantity still remains, better than
the average. It was better than the crop
from any single level below 500 ft.; and
from the two top levels only a few tons are
drawn. More than that, some of the new
bodies lately found at the 1270 ft. level but
not yet worked are of much higher grade
than the run-of-the-level. For instance, bore
No. 187 lately ran through 51ft. worth 23.5
p.c. lead, 14.50 z. silver and 20.6 p.c. zinc—-
splendid sweetening material. As the re-
sult of developments the reserves are still
estimated at 3,500,000 tons. If the co.
doesn’t work faster than it has done during
the past 12 months that lot will take over
20 years to beat out; and preparations are
all ready for ore-winning at 1370 ft., which
will add to the mine’s life. A good deal of
boring was done there prior to two years
ago. No very large bodies were found; but
bodies (6ft. and upwards) of very high
grade were proved by the drill.
Considerable changes'in management have
occurred during the year. F. C. Howard,
chairman and managing director for many
years, died; no appointment of managing
director has been made, but W. E. Wain-
wright, the long-sighted and tremendous
worker who has hitherto ranked as manager,
has become general manager. Frank G.
Hickey, for many years secretary, has re-
tired through ill-health; and mine-account-
ant J. R. Edwards has succeeded him. In-
cidentally, the co. has now a £lOO,OOO interest
in the new electrolytic zinc works at Risdon,
near Hobart.
« t « «
Still another report has been made on the
B. H. Junction —this time by George Klug,
8., M. and Co.’s manager. It isn’t comfort-
ing. No independent report on the Junction
ever has been during the past 20 years.
Briefly, Klug finds that, though there may
be 226.000 tons in reserve, only 125,000 tons
could be got worth 11 p.c. lead, 5 p.c. zinc
and Boz. silver. The other 101,000 tons is
of not much lower average grade, but pre-
sumably where it is not considerably poorer
it is expensive to work. Then: —
On the basis of existing treatment charges, together
with an allowance of 30s. per ton for selective
mining, and estimating recoveries of 80 per cent,
lead, 63 per cent, silver, and 35 per cent, zinc, from
a grade of ore 11 per cent, lead, 5 per cent, zinc,
and Boz. silver per ton, the. critical lead price govern-
ing your operations would be £25 16s. per ton,
based on silver at 4s. per ounce and the realisation
of lead and zinc concentrates on the bases of the
Broken Hill Associated Smelters and Zinc Producers’
Association returning charges. Each shilling rise
or fall in the price of silver decreases or increases
the critical lead nrice bv £2 17s. ner ion. Each
shilling rise or fall in the working costs increases
or decreases it by 11s. per ton. From the above it
is obvious that only when metals remain above
£24 16s. per ton for lead and 4s. per ounce for
silver can a profit be made.
There is not enough ore to warrant the
erection of a plant; therefore the only
course open is to sell to other cos., and
there should be no difficulty about that. But
it will only pay with metal at so high a
price that it might be better to sell the whole
concern to some other co. and save over-
head charges. There is, of course, the pos-
sibility of new finds; but the search for
them is likely to take all of what little profit
there , may be from ore now available. And
with an adverse market it is doubtful whe-
ther money would be forthcoming to do
any prospecting at all; which might and
most likely would mean the sacrifice of the
whole property.
* * * *
A little over a year ago Mammoth
Molybdenite (N.SAV.) directors told share-
holders that there appeared to be “no doubt
that the mine will prove highly remunera-
tive.” Three months ago, one trouble having
heaped on another, the show shut down; and
now it has tumbled into the hands of a
receiver, the bank having foreclosed. The
property has not been proved a dud; in tact,
so far it has not been properly tested. Only
about 100 sq. yds. of the 100 acres have
been worked. But the co. has failed dismally
Formed in Maoriland (to sidestep the Federal
Treasury) it started with 120,000 of its
180,000 £1 shares earmarked as fully-paid
for vendors. To begin with, 4s. 4d. was called
up on the contribs, and by the time pre-
liminary exes, had been met there was only
about £12,500 cash in hand to equip the
show after proving that it was worth equip
ping. For a start 10 head of stamps were
put in, and before these had justified them-
selves they were duplicated early this year.
Results were very disappointing, tor instead
of the anticipated 1.7 p.c. of concentrates .25
p.c. was the average. The death-blow came
a couple of months back when the Com-
monwealth Government refused to accept
concentrates under 85 p.c. molybdenite.
With no cash in hand and calls unpaid, the
bailiff was inevitable.
At present Australian shareholders do
not know where they stand. No whisper
has come across the water as to the direc-
tors’ intentions. With the bank out after
its £2OOO they will now be forced to break
the silence. Meantime there is a proposal
in Sydney to turn the outfit over to a new
co. in 180,000 2s. 6d. shares paid to 6d.
Whether this move to put all holders on a
contributing basis will prove successful is
uncertain, but it seems the only decent way
out.
• * • *
Broken Hill Prop, has been granted a
further six months’ option over the 119
acres of Mammoth Molybdenite ground which
it has been prodding in a very leisurely way
for some time. The big concern has spent
some money on the show in driving three
tunnels (in about 100 ft.) and in boring. A
fourth bore is down about 170 ft. Apparently
the Prop, is not yet satisfied as to prospects,
but nevertheless considers further investiga-
tion worth while. And meantime it keeps
an eye on the market for the metal.
* * * •
The bismuth show, near Jenolan Caves
(N.S.W.) which Alex. Riddel and Son
have been working for the past couple. of
years in a primitive kind of way, is being
turned over to a co., which intends to treat
the stone with up-to-date machinery. Fred
Johnston, a well-known mine-manager in the
Western districts, is to run the plant.
* * • •
Many years ago arsenic troubles killed the
Deep Creek gold-mines, Nambucca River,
N.S.W. North Coast; but some local
people see hopes in a resurrection. A
new shaft is already down 120 ft. at
the Valla, and after sinking another
20ft. a crosscut is to be driven.
When development has advanced a battery
and concentrating plant are to be installed.
For a start there are 2000 tons ore broken in
the old workings and about 1000 tons of
“good concentrating ore” in the dumps. The
North Coast railway runs through the pro-
perty, so the new crowd will have no trouble
in getting concentrates to Leggo’s Bendigo
treatment works. The average of the ore
handled in the long ago is said to have been
Sox. Recent samples have shown 4oz. gold
and about 38 p.c. arsenic, with 14dwt. to
17dwt. silver. William Wiley, who worked
in the show as a youth and has since mine-
managed all over the Commonwealth, is in
charge.
* * * *
Things are murkier than ever at Dayles-
ford (Vic.) now that the Ajax is bunkered.
Seemingly the 20,000 tons ore which Bal-
larat reckoned would give 10s. to 12s. of
divs. has faded away. Phil Lewis’s last six
months’ work gave 1850 oz. from 6302 tons,
so profits are off and calls are necessary.
There seems to be a shred of hope at No.
9, where the lode is being opened tip south _
of the east crosscut, the shoot heir
wide But every nape * n Ajax line
en a b aGk be rw No. 8 level, and there
is" no reason why the Ajax should win out
there when the near-by Central found no-
thing in the deep ground. A little payable
stone remains to be stoped olf the Ajax No.
7 and in the intermediate above No. o,
but generally, mixture is showing else-
where. With Ajax and the Nuggettys out of
the running, eyes are on Ajax Nortn. it
is driving its No. 7 level into the belt ot
slates that has carried all the good shoots
in the Ajax run of country. Still, even with
the North the grade is the trouble.
Chiltern Valley (Vic.), out of which old
John Cock won £1,200,000 of gold before
passing in his checks, still lives; but it is
hard going. Since 1912 the wash in the main
gutter has been poor, with the costs those of
a big alluvial mine, about which the least
said the better. Over £117,500 has been spent
on the mine since 1912, of which £74,810
represents gold won and £38,250 capital,
but not a div. has shown up. Labor got
£63.000, and fuel, timber and supplies took
£22,000. Gold now works out at £3 os. 2d.
per fathom, or a drop of 30s. since last
year. This is because the tributary m which
the parties have been working has so nar-
rowed that yields have tapered to below the
pay point. Now John Cock, junior, has
dodged back into the old mine, where pros-
pects weren’t too good when he branched on
to pick out 1700 ft. of good ground from the
tributary. At the east end of the claim is
3000 ft. of ground which may shape well,
though the grade in the old workings was on
the poor side. So it follows that Chiltern
Valley will have to turn west along the lead.
There the hunt will have to be down the
gutter bevond the junction of the tributary.
Some 3200 ft, of the lead is untouched, and
room exists for a belt of enriched ground to
be developed. A little profit was raked out
in 1918, after six years’ dead work, but it
was not enough to pay off the State advance
of £lB5O, though £lOO had to be forked out
for income-tax. Last year the State debt
was got down to £850; but there is still no
div., as a lot of dead work had to be carried
out and creditors were on the doormat.
* * * *
A send-off to a useful man:—
Another good mining battler has fallen before the
sickle. This is Tom Harvey. If memory serves,
he came over to Ballarat from Haoriland when
Madame Berry was the big star in the Creswick
deep-lead constellation. He plodded along, touching
the Maryborough mines and dipping into any likely
show that happened along. His quiet stability and
pluck got him into the circle of old hands which
included Sam Body, the Bryants, George Buchanan,
Leishman and others of the Ballarat crowd. Some
were tough, some were not; but Harvey had every-
one’s goodwill. So he pouched a bit here and a
bit there, and attached himself at last to the
Baillieu stable. This was perhaps because of W. L.'s
venturing in coal and his connection with some of
the Duke mines and the Jubilee at Berringa. Oddly
enough Harvey also joined some of the plungers in
the big bear raid on Lake View Consols, owing to
the success of which Whitaker Wright toppled. One
of his big splashes was to send Ferguson over to
Lyell Blocks, and to back the show nobly in the
face of all its rotten luck. Better fortune came to
him through his cut into the Ajax and other Dayles-
ford floats in the boom days of the field. His last
act was to leave his estate of £60,000 to charities,
with individual legacies to lots of his old mining
friends like Baillieu, P. P. Cook, brokers Jack Reid
and Davies, and manager Ferguson.
* • • •
Big things may eventuate at Hepburn, a
couple of miles from Daylesford. The pres-
ence of radium in the Hepburn mineral
water has long been suspected, and Prof.
Orme Masson and a Uni. chemist have been
investigating at the Springs Co.’s works.
While it is not demonstrated that there is
radium in the water, it is practically estab-
lished that the water passes through radium.
To locate the deposit is the problem.
# # * *
There has been a stir among the Speck’s
osmiridium diggers. Dr. Campbell Brown,
of the Waterman Co., was recently reported
to have sought exclusive buying rights, and
it was said that he intended establishing a
store, p.o. and shelter-shed 19 miles out
from Waratah. Sniffing a monopoly, the
diggers decided not to sell their product to
the co., or to anybody else, unless prices
were lifted at least 10s. per oz. However, it
appears that Dr. Brown’s proposal for ex-
clusive rights had been turned down cold
before the diggers protested, and that he was
prepared to go ahead with the store and take
his chances as a buyer. But even that may
now be off. Whether the scratchers will be
able to squeeze the extra 10s. per oz. re-
mains to be seen ; buyers as a rule do not
control prices, but deal merely on a commis-
sion basis. The shovel and dish men are a
conservative crowd, and have resisted all
innovations. The acquisition of large slices
of poor ground for working by a cheap
hydraulic method has always been strenu-
ously opposed. One miner, who
a lonsr-iftm" Siu ice-box and was making good
on poor ground, was ostracised by the tin-
dish artists and practically drummed off the
field. There are two bends in the Savage
River where tunnels could be run, at a
moderate cost, to cut the river and expose
for working the two richest but at present
ungetatable sections of the deposit; hut
no one has been able to secure these conces-
sions owing to the opposition of the diggers.
Drilling at the State oil-bore at Roma
(Q.) is -still held up. All efforts to raise
the drills have failed, and, to make matters
worse, the rope suspended to the gear has
broken. The Department’s officials have
decided that neither acids nor explosives
will clear the track of the two tons of steel
3705 ft. down, and two expert artesian borers
have been called in to see if they can sug-
gest anything. So far the bore has cost
nearly £25,000 —almost £7 per foot.
* # * * *
Laloki (Papua) continues to move rapidly
towards the producing stage. A road having
been made from Rona to the mine, tractor
traffic is now possible between the property
and the Moresby wharf, where ore-bins are
being built. A tramway is being laid from
the Dubuna mine to Bootle’s Inlet, where
a wharf is being constructed. The co. has
taken over the Moresby-Rona road from the
Government, and is rapidly making it suit-
able for heavy traffic. At Laloki housing
is being established for white and brown
employees, while development work goes on
at the mine. Naturally other properties on
the long-neglected Astrolabe field are getting
attention now.
* * * *
Gold is still being dug out of the Golden
Ridge (W.A.),.although it is a year or two
since a co. gave up because the show was
reckoned to have been worked out. The
tributors have taken out good crushings
and made a profit of roughly £12,000.
“Exile” : Some time ago I wrote about the
use of powdered coal in place of oil in sta-
tionary engines in the United States. A
still newer fuel is a mixture of finely-pul-
verised coal and crude oil. It is called "col-
loidal fuel,” and has a higher calorific value
than the common fuel oil. A new chemical
compound ~ recently discovered called “fixa-
teur” is also being tried. Combustible itself,
it imparts to the heavier carbon bodies suffi-
cient buoyancy to sustain them in the mass
of oil. ltefu.se oil, pulverised coal, coal-tar
and fixateur make a smokeless high-grade
liquid fuel that looks like common axle-
grease Some of these composites are half-
coal half-oil; others three-fourths coal, one-
fourth oil. The saving of oil is remarkable.
(“Wild Cat” continued on page 26.)


old Dooleys Crop, &n.d sJbout to Bill Roberts
u , ~, ”
'ERE HE COI'IES
Tkss>ir\g>
Bullock tecvm .
SOMETHING- LIKE A GOVERNOR.
"Forbes, Tuesday—Sir Walter Davidson was here for the week-end. At the welcoming function on Saturday speakers painted gloomy pictures regarding the dry
spell. 'Don't be downhearted, you Forbes people,’ he said in reply, ‘the drought is about to break. Whenever Lady Davidson and I visit a district in dry times rain
follows us. You will have a good fall very soon.' As if in answer, a few spots of rain fell during the afternoon. Yesterday a downpour set in in earnest. Sir Walter is
certain to receive numerous invitations from places which are affected by the drought.”—Sun.


Clasps
ai l
m
~se ( fy‘Gparee/~
< v%? JJour sue
%Jj// S^pprecidte
BP.EWED FROn
PURE HALTS) HOPS'ONLy
THE DEAF HEAR!
Theioy and Happiness
of perfect hearing are
only appreciated by
those who have lost it.
The
IVlears Earphone
makes it yours. The
Latest Model 96-Tone
IVlears Earphone
In the hollow of the
hand or attached to
ear with light head
band.
with its great range of
tone and power, can be regulated by a touch
of the finger to suit the hearing for every
occasion, and for all stages of deafness.
The MEARS EARPHONE catches and inten-
sifies even the least whisper, and enables the
deaf to hear lectures, sermons and plays clear-
ly and distinctly. Small, compact, and incon-
spicuous. The MEARS EARPHONE is
recommended by leading Aurists, and many
prominent Australian citizens have had the
Mears Earphone in daily use for Seven
Years, with continued satisfaction.
A Lengthy Guarantee with each Instrument
FREE TRIAL 1
Call and test it, or write for booklet poist free.
.The Mears Earphone Co., Bernard’s Bldgs.,
Tel. 3916 City. 387 George Street, Sydney.
Hotel Sydney
The Spacious Dining
Hall is a Rendezvous
of Eminence for
LUNCHEONS
and
DINNERS.
ITEMS—
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA.
CHARfiING ROOF GARDEN.
Management E. T. CHEESE MAN.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
The Bulletin deeply regrets that at the
moment of writing J. F. Archibald, one of
its founders, and its editor for some years
prior to 1902, lies critically ill in St. Vin-
cent’s Hospital (Sydney). Mr. Archibald’s
health failed in the late ’nineties, and never
fully recovered. His present serious con-
dition follows upon an operation.
W.A. Premier Mitchell is a glutton for
work. He usually turns out about 4 a.m..
rustles a bit of breakfast for himself, and
has a long walk. It is nothing out of the
way for him to be at his office at 8 o’clock
and to keep going till 6 or 7 o’clock, with
another sitting in the evening sometimes.
But Jie can sleep at any moment, and as
long as he can get in half an hour’s snooze
during the afternoon he is right. When
a prosy speaker bores the House Mitchell
merely puts his head back and takes 40
winks.
A note on an incident in Chief Justice
Griffith’s career: —
Many hard things have been said about the
political life of Griffith, C.J. The oft-repeated story
of his appointing himself to the Queensland Bench
with a cool thousand increase is well known. Here s
the truth of the yarn. When Lilley’s retirement
was announced Nelson, leader of the Opposition,
headed a petition to the Governor praying for an in-
crease in the salary of the Chief Justice from £2500
to £3500 in order to secure the services of the only
suitable man, and subsequently introduced a bill for
that purpose. Griffith, in power with Mcllwraith,
took no part in the proceedings in the House, and
for some time withheld his assent to the passage of
the bill. In the meantime ho consulted his friends
in Australia and the Old Country, and finally con-
sented. It is well for Australia that lie did !
As to that there can hardly be two opinions.
The saddest of all fates has befallen one
of Westralia’s earliest V.C.’s of the great
war. He is now in the Claremont (W.A.)
mental hospital, a prey to religious mania.
“RICKETY RUSSELL, M.L. Public
Health Minister during the ’flu epi-
demic; he has just followed Ward out
of the Ministry.
Adelaide’s pleasant habit of making the
best of both worlds lias never been better
illustrated than in the recent choice by the
8. Aus. Anglican Synod of a new trustee
for church property. The churchman
selected is Whitmore Carr, who has for
vears been chairman of the Adelaide Racing
Club. And the retiring trustee whom he
replaces is John Barker, who for years has
been, and still is, chairman of the S.A.
Jockey Club.
W. A. Woods, who was Speaker of the
Speck Assembly during the most exciting
couple of years in the Island’s Parliamen-
tary history (they included the famous con-
stitutional battle with Governor Macartney
and the Labor Ministry’s ticklish job
of governing the State without a Parlia-
mentary majority) has quietly 7 dropped back
into harness in the reporters’ gallery of the
House after a dozen or so years in active
politics. This is probably the only 7 Austra-
lian instance of an ex-Speaker’s elevation
“above the Speaker.”
With a twitch of pain Melbourne press-
men learned that Alf Wilson had done his
last turn. The end came after a desperate
surgical effort to save him; lie suffered from
an internal ailment. No whiter man ever
used a pen. For 20 years or more he was
the principal man on the law courts for
Melbourne Herald, but he was known best
as the partner of the late Arthur Wood-
house in the Central Press Agency, which
supplied wires and letters to provincial and
inter-State papers. His father had started
the agency, and the son carried it on till
he went into hospital. He -was 6S, and
served on the press for half a century.
ON THE SCALES.
DIGGER HUGHES: “Eve put on weight all
right since I went away.”
' One of the first to succumb to ’flu in the
Speck was Martin Michael Ryan, the Hobart
lawyer, who was best known as president
of the local United Irish League, and guide,
philosopher and publicity agent of Irish
envoys. Before he took to the law he did
a bit of school-teaching in the Ma State,
and was one of the organisers of the old
Farmers’ Union, aiding and abetting Pink-
stone and others to that end in the late
’eighties or early ’nineties. Ryan, who was
60 when he passed, was never tired of
talking of the cookies' of Coota’, Temora,
Junee and Burrowa, the humor of them and
the resourcefulness of them. “The finest
men in Australia,” was his verdict, adding
as a studied afterthought, “especially the
Irish of them.” His wife was visiting a
sick mother at Junee (N.S.W.) when the
Reaper called at the Hobart address.
Died in Melbourne, John McLaren, Presby-
terian minister and father of “McNorth”
of The Bulletin. Born in Loehaber,
Scotland, he at St. Andrew’s and
came to Australia 36 years ago to do mission-
ary work in the New Hebrides. Unsatisfac-
tory health drove him to ministering instead to
the heathen of Australia, Lie had charge of
churches at Fitzroy, Bendigo, Richmond, etc.,
and while he in no way despised the work
that came to his hand, he always dreamed
of the day that would find him somewhere
out on the rim with a heartful of faith and
pockets full of tracts. He was tremend-
ously in earnest about this mission scheme
of his, and studied several languages, in-
cluding Chinese, so that he might not be
found wanting when the call came. But
Death came instead. Tie leaves a widow
and family of five, three sons (of whom
“McNorth” is the eldest) and two
daughters.
The world’s champion founder of news-
papers passed on the other day to discover
what Father Peter thought of his record.
He was Joe Ivess, known all over Maoriland
as “the rag-planter.” In the scattered vil-
lages of Yonder Isles Ivess established
45 papers within 30 years. A comp, by
trade —he held a frame in the Age office
long ago—he landed at Hokitika in the late
’sixties with a printing press, a job lot
of type and an idea that every hamlet de-
served an Archimedean lever. For years
afterwards an ink-smeared apparitmn bustled
up and down the landscape planting levers
as other men plant pumpkins. Most of them
expired. The rest he sold. All of them
were terrible—especially during periods
when the proprietor became afflicted more
acutelv than usual with the itch for political
distinction. Once he briefly represented
Ashburton in the House of Reps. At an-
other time he ran John D. Ormond to a
head for the Napier seat. In middle-age
he was a podgy, garrulous battler, with more
energy than a soldier-ant, and a hide that
was tougher than stringy-bark. He lasted
till he was 75.
R W. Tate, who had been connected with
the Australian Star and the Sun for
nearly 30 years, lately as secretary, died
last week, to the great regret ot the Inky
Way. His only son was killed at the I rout.
Weighed anchor, R. R. Bradley, inastei
mariner, good Australian, good unionist,
good fellow. Born at one of the Northern
River ports of N.S.W., where his father was
a pilot, Bradley was for years an officer of
the A U S.N. Co. On the inception of the
Merchant Service Guild he was
elected assistant sec., and had
been either that or president
ever since. An old member of
the Seamen’s Union, he hated
to see members of his organisa-
tion act as strike-breakers for
the owners, and the recent
maritime disturbance went far
to complete his iinal collapse
from heart failure. He was put
up by the Labor party to con-
test the North Sydney seat at
one Federal election against
Colonel Ryrie, and he deserved
a better chance. If the wishes of
the seafaring fraternity count
for anything over yonder, Brad-
ley will have command of the
finest passenger ship sailing on
the Jasper Sea, with every
man on board a true-blue
unionist to whom “scabbing” is
anathema.
“Nestor”: I was asked to
lend a hand at John Wren’s
free Peace feed to the poor of
Collingwood (B. 14/8/T9).
The thousands that turned up
included the most villainous-
looking citizens I have ever
seen. Yet when the crowd de-
parted late that night not an
article of crockery was broken
and not a piece of cutlery or
silver was missing. Somebody said “Honor
among thieves” ; but what’s that got to do
with it?
Jim Curnow, who has again become
Mayor of Bendigo, had just time to put
mi the fur-edged robe before greeting Hughes.
There are people who think that when de-
corations are being distributed in a month
or two something may be pinned to Cur-
now’s coat. The city that returns Hughes,
the Colonial Office may argue, must be im-
portant enough to have a titled mayor. For-
merly Curnow helped to run the A.N.A. In
the days behind that he was a local letter-
carrier.
William Sketheway, just dead in Adelaide
at S 5, was Scotch-born, but came to S. Aus.
70 years ago, and liked to remember, when
lie was a successful builder, that- his first
job had been carting water from the Tor-
rens. He was prominent as a city aider-
man, and it was his greatest disappointment
that he never became mayor. The truth is
he remained something of a rough diamond,
and there was always somebody more orna-
mental to take the fancy of the ratepayers,
who in Adelaide have the decision.
Hobart has lost its most popular priest,
Monsignor Gilleran, who died, probably from
’flu, some ten days before the State was
officially classed as an infected area. The
late cleric held the record of buryings at
Hobart’s principal cemetery. For quarter
of a century or so the smart dog-cart of
the ruddy-visaged praste was the best-
known equipage on the road between the not-
not-too-quick and the very-dead end of the
Speck’s capital.
Bananaland has been behind the other
States in producing women aspirants for
the Senate; but Mrs. John Huxham, wife
of the Home Secretary, now goes to the
Labor plebiscite. She is one of the party’s
most effective speakers.
Miss Margaret Cuthbertson, senior in-
spectress of factories, who visited England
just before the war to inquire into the
prospect of attracting a good type of immi-
grant, is to pilot Mrs. Simms and Miss
Pughe Jones, the British Emigration In-
quiry delegates, around Victoria. Miss
Ghomley, member of the family which has
supplied Vic. with a judge, a police com-
missioner and other useful citizens, is at-
tached to the delegation as secretary, direc-
tor and guide. The visiting delegation is
intent upon finding out for itself what
chances there are for women who were war
workers, having no great respect for the
statements obtained at Government offices.
Not a few shipwrecked mariners and run-
aways cobbered with black brother in the
early days, mostly be-
cause they could not
help it. But at the
present day there is
an educated man, once
an officer in the British
Army, living as the
chief of a native tribe
on Sunday Island, off
the nor’-west coast of
Westralia. It is al-
leged he has under-
gone all the tribal
initiation ceremonies ;
he wears much the
same costume, or lack
of it, as his subjects,
and lives as one of
them. In return he
has taught them a
little of the arts of
civilisation.
GEO. PALMER,
President Me.
Returned Soldiers’
Association.
The widow of Dr. Andrew Garran and
mother of Commonwealth Solicitor-General
Robert Garran had a 90th birthday on Sep-
tember 8. The doctor, for manv years on
the staff of the S. M. Herald, was the old
paper’s editor from 1873 to 1886.
Died at North Devon, Gippsland, aged
90, Sarah Graham, one of the oldest of
Tasmanian natives, born at Hobart. Town
in 1829. Her mother, who married
Nathaniel Myers, came to the Derwent via
Port Phillip in 3803 in the Ocean, which,
carried also Governor Collins and John
Pascoe Fawkner.
Temple Smith, Vic. Closer-Settlement
Commissioner, resumes his old place as
tobacco expert in the Agricultural Dept, at
£6OO a year. It was less than he was re-
cently ordered to be paid as C.S. Commis-
sioner ; but now that conditions are more
favorable for producers of tobacco, his old
job is more congenial.
E. J. Rigby, a Vic. mining engineer, who
was on a professional tour, was bailed up
by the Bolshevik committee at. Tetuhia.
Siberia, and asked to show cause why he
should not be imprisoned, executed, or other-
wise disagreeably dealt with. The inter-
preter warned the committee that Rigby
was an important foreign official, and that
dreadful consequences would follow any bad
treatment. The president, a former pri-
soner under Czar rule, asked for proofs.
Passports were scorned. In desperation a
letter of introduction given by Peacock,
when Premier, was flourished. The big red
seal, which Peacock told his secretary to
be sure to put on, was spotted, and the
effect was magical. Rigbv was given the
freedom of the village, was called “Excel-
lency.” had a troika (three-horse vehicle)
placed at his disposal, and was assisted to
map his journey out of Russia. Rigby’s
son. Harry, a military aviator, is planning
to fly to Australia, and some week-end may
drop greetings on the village which was
civil to his dad.
“The Oldest Inhabitant” climbs a family
tree: —-
Mrs. Constance Cockshott, who died in Sydney
recently, was one of a remarkable family. She was
the sixth daughter and the last surviving child of
Sj'lvester John Browne, who had been in the East
India Co.’s service, and who came to Sydney in
the first He had offices in Macquarie
Place and built Enmore House, now demolished; but
the locality retained the name. In 1840 he
chartered a schooner, which carried the members of
his family and the family belongings to Port
Phillip. The captain decided to settle at Hartlands,
Heidelberg, and by him and his friends at a picnic
that suburb was named. Prior to this he had an option
over what is now Toorak, but discarded it. A brother
of Mrs. Cockshott was T. A. Browne (Rolf Boldre-
wood) ; her youngest brother was Sylvester Browne,
squatter and mining speculator; his wife was the
eldest daughter of Chief Justice Stawell (Vic.).
Of Mrs. Coekshott’s five sisters, all now deceased,
I. married William Walker, who built and lived
at Redleaf, Double Bay; 11. married Moleswortli
Greene, of Bacchus Marsh (Vic.) ; 111. married
Robert Massie, and was the mother of 11. H. Massie,
general manager of the Commercial Bank of Sydney;
IV. was the wife of Frederick Darley, C.J.; V.
married Peter Scratchley, for many years military
adviser to the Australian Governments and first
Administrator of New Guinea.
Donald Syme, president of the Common-
wealth Steamship Owners’ Assoc, during the
recent seamen’s strike, is a nephew of G. 11.
Reid. He owes something to that, for it sug-
gested to him that debating-society experi-
ence would be a help to a business man—and
it is in his case. His father was manager of
the Melbourne Steamship Co. before him.
MAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He had the privilege of years ;
Had smiled with Time and wept with tears.
Upon the way he greeted me —
We met each other guardedly.
We looked into each other’s eyes,
And marked each other’s wearied sighs.
On him seemed crushed Eternity....
And then I fled —for it was me!
N.S.W.
JOHN BARR.


There are many men whose expectations of
satisfactory tailoring service have never
been fully realised—whose search for some-
thing better than is offered by most makers of
men’s clothes is so often fruitless.
These are the men who, in the end, come to Gowing
Bros, and become our fastest business friends and our
most faithful customers. This is because we have
given them, uniformly, the “Something better” that
they sought.
And this result is but another proof of what we
have always claimed for “Austral” Tailoring—
an unvarying High Quality Standard of Fabrics
and Workmanship, as well as the better style and
better fit of every “Austral” Suit tailored to order.
“Austral” Sac Suits
to Measure
85/-, 95/-, 105-/, 126/-
To any address we gladly send, post free, on request, Patterns
of New Fabrics, and Simple Forms of Self-Measurement.
Send us a Postcard to-day and be assured of real satisfaction
in your New Suit.
A Special Concession of 5 per cent. (1/- in the £) is allowed
to Returned Soldiers in Uniform, on all Cash Purchases of
£s or over. .
ORDERS DELIVERED FREE IN
CITY, SUBURBS AND COUNTRY.
GOWING
EVERYTHING FOR MEN’S AND BOYS’ WEAR.
484-490 George
3-17 Royal Arcade, Sydney.
New Branch Store at 304-306 George Street,
near Hunter Street.
OS
[TD
.■i
L' W.
y n
SakyßL &MmSSk
gipi
f " w-M
2®*"
m 11 lip
B Ii l i
* t »> v*si
■idir *. \ v
-.' M \3aH
) y j
_ A 7 . Wij?W%£-
I /
HP « £ r/» ■ *H|lTTflfflnl
v x
x 'm *'
' 111
I • • *s, . V ' C S-v'SR
S© S' ' «dfc4.
*
Wl \' Is Tz"
/ / t I •
Ilf '-
■mHI
/
- / I- ■ _
;;
w mm till
4 . Is >liito
i§*
'
JKKBKm
mm
|Mp
’ &L
WV:
:.l
a Wi§& © % I
5! 1
[ ill
HR i-’ titejatjl
:
>T,.v >fi;/
H-?
ML W I rjm
X..
" ,"© •'
IR&MHBp
* M :
’lf ,*«
M : : MiW :.?lm &mMM.
■' "1
©gs
M
■ .••
■
.-■ v]
M4SWO
iiir


A Former Minister of the Crown, Mr. P. B. Blundell, late Minister for Industry
and Repatriation in the National Govt., South Australia, writes of Clements Tonic
“CLEMENTS TONIC, LTD.,
“National Party of S. Australia.
“Globe Chambers, Adelaide, 21/7/’l9.
“During the early part of last year (1918) I went through a very strenuous campaign, addressing two and three meetings
nightly, besides attending to my duties as Minister of Industry and Repatriation.
The campaign lasted two or three months, at the end of which time I felt completely fatigued and worked out.
I had recourse to Clements Tonic, and derived great benefit from it in recuperating my energies.
“Yours respectfully, “P. B. BLUNDELL,
This Remarkable Medicine is sold by all Chemists and Stores.
“Late Minister Industry and Repatriation,
“South Australia.”
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle, N.S.W.
It can be obtained in any part of the Commonwealth and New Zealand.
Society
PENFOLD'S
WINES
“Wealsman”: After successfully dodging
’flu till the middle of August, Tasmania has
had to accept the “infected country” label.
All the schools are closed, and most of the
metropolitan school-buildings are in use as
hospitals. Yet only about a baker’s dozen
fatalities were officially recorded during the
tirst 16 days of the trouble. Personal pre-
paredness probably had some effect in cur-
WAR IS HELL.
"Go on—what have you girls suffered from
the war ?”
“ Suffered! Why, Joe makes the fourth hoy
of mine those English girls have mar-
ried!”
tailing the undertakery list. Maoriland Dr.
Macdonald’s booklet on tongue-swabbing, to
which a Hobart paper gave a good deal of
space, seems to have helped considerably.
Though no local doctor lias bad the temerity
to either endorse or condemn such a simple
remedy, hundreds of families in Hobart have
been industriously scrubbing the implement
'thev talk with, and though some members of
these families have failed ~to escape alto-
gether, they caught it in such a mild form
that they hardly realised they had it. In
some households, including my own, where
the fur-removing process was not systematic
until the malady had a grip, it was
noticed that those sufferers who first suc-
ceeded in removing the over-burden from
the tongue were the first to leave their
beds and go off to work. It sems that any-
thing which promotes the flow of saliva,
thus helping the tongue to shed its unneces-
sary fur, is useful. For instance, Hobart
city-missionary Long, whose duties take him
into very close contact with ’flu cases in
the slums, and who is a non-smoker, carries
no other protector than common salt, a pinch
of which goes on his tongue occasionally,
with, so far, excellent results.
* * * *
Adelaide is shocked to find mud being
thrown at one of its idols —Hoi. Light, who
laid out the city. The congestion of tram-
cars in King William-street is becoming
acute, and Goodman, the Trust’s engineer,
trying to overcome it, finds himself blocked
by “the exceedingly bad manner in which
the city has been laid out.” Running east
and west there are nine streets ranging
from broad to very broad. But running
north and south there are only King William-
street and two others; that is, for a third
of a mile each way from the central street
there are only lanes which happen to have
been left by owners. Goodman has various
plans for getting the cars out of that over-
worked bit of the main street between Vic-
toria-square and Grenfell-street. But be de-
clares emphatically that a new broad street
will sometime have to be made from North
Terrace to Wakefield-street, about where
Gawler-place now is—“and the longer it is
put off the greater will be the cost of carry-
ing it into effect.”
* * * *
“Schoolmarm” gets enlightenment:—
Re “The dean Soldier and the Dirty Civilian”
(B. 14/8/T9). Three soldiers and 14 civilians re-
cently passed through the hospital where I have been
V.A.D.-ing. All the soldiers were clean: two of the
civilians were syphilitic, and they left the hospital
syphilitic. They were not there on account of V.D.,
and there was no way in which they could be forced
to have treatment for it. I discovered at this place
for the first time (from the matron) what a public
danger such men are. One’s hands get very chap-
ped and cut by hospital work, and it only requires
the smallest quantity of discharge from the tiniest
pimple on an infected patient to pass into one’s
blood, and one is liable to become as they are. The
doctors know by examination when a patient is
suffering from V.D. Yet, though many of the
nurses are novices, and though some of them are
little more than children, medical etiquette or some-
thing debars the doctor from warning the matron,
much less a nurse or V.A.D. Only when a patient
has entered for the specific purpose of being treated
for \.D. is the fact of his being polluted disclosed.
* * * •
Startling news from Brisbane Daily
Standard :
Then on the less concentrated battleground of
life it is a common thing for women to assume the
duties of motherhood before 18. Occasionally men
do so.
The fecundity of the North becomes more
amazing as we learn more about it.
* * * *
“Ne’er-do-Well”: Kalgoorlie had an ex-
hibition of what the Australian youngster
can do when in 1915 half a
dozen students of the Kalgoor-
lie School of Mines designed
and built a double-seated aero-
plane in an old shed. The thing
flew many times, and made one
flight of over 100 miles. Great
crowds were attracted to several
exhibition flights, and a female
passenger was taken up for an
airing. The pilot was G. Gear,
who held a certificate from the
Royal Aero Club, London.
(Later on he became Flight-
Lieut. Gear.) The lads had
lighter pockets through their
enterprise, the Gnome engine,
which they imported, costing
them over £200; but a sympa-
thetic public filled them out a
bit. Of the six experimenters at
least four—Gear, Burton, Old-
field and another—gained further air ex-
perience against Fritz.
* * * *
Tlaka ’: Maoriland Cold Tea handicapped
itself in its recent fight against Bung by
importing the dry spruikers from Amurka.
The Yanks’ “efficiency” argument was never
taken seriously by Maorilanders. At one
meeting the speaker was referring to a con-
tract on which 1500 men were employed for
two years. There were seven pubs near
by, and at the end of the contract only
one man had full time. “What does that
go to show?” bawled the Yank. “That the
cove Avho never missed was time-keeper,”
drawled a bloke at the back.”
* * * *
“Mr. Ocky” : For five years the Vic. rail-
ways have been building a new viaduct at
Moorabool, on the Geelong-Ballarat line,
which was one of the first laid in the State.
The old viaduct, built in 1859-61, was con-
sidered a marvel of its day, and the great
Brunei advised upon the £200,000 job—
by far the biggest of the kind done in Aus-
tralia up to that time. Thirty or more years
agro, owing to increasing weight of engines,
people began to predict disaster, and ner-
vous passengers did this part of the journey
by other means. Then the viaduct was
OCULAR DEMONSTRATION.
J INGS: “Are you sure he married her for her money?”
JANGS: “Absolutely. I’ve seen her.”
strengthened and the line converted from a
double into a single track; but even then
the trains were only allowed to meander
across. It was the new Gheringhap-
Maroona line that finally necessitated re-
construction of the viaduct to take any
trains at any reasonable speed. In the deck-
ing Vic. yellow stringybark replaces the
splendid old red ironbark and grey box,
which is still almost as good as new. The
viaduct, with its 1400 tons of steel girders
and trestles, will now take a double track,
and it is claimed that you could crowd
engines all over it without any fear.
* * * *
“Gregorius”: To inaccurate dispensing
measures and clinical thermometers add use-
less disinfectant. Recently a shipment of
Jap formalin arrived and was distributed
in the ordinary way by a wholesale house.
Within a few days complaints began to roll
in from angry purchasers, who backed up
their remarks with samples of the rubbish.
An analysis showed that some at any rate
of the bottles were filled with water.- to
which a mere dash of formalin had been
added in order to give it the characteristic
smell. This didn’t matter much, but pre-
sently Nippon may send some of the finer
preparations, such as alkaloidal drugs, e.g.,
strychnine, morphine, etc., and then the
fraud will matter a lot. A series of ex-
haustive tests should be made by Customs
Dept, chemists of all drugs before landing
is authorised.
* * * *
“Pitman”: Washington, the Canberra of
the United States —the most beautiful city
on earth after Edinburgh—.has been for
three nights the centre of a civil war be-
tween blacks and whites. I saw mobs of
whites, including many soldiers and sailors,
chasing niggers down the main streets, beat-
ing them and shooting them at close quar-
ters. (There are 12,000,000 negroes in the
United States.) How many were killed
and wounded the police did not tell.
They ascribed the outbreak to bad
drink. For some time past, since prohibi-
tion was agreed to, manufacturers have been
turning out small distilling plants with in-
structions how to operate them. This city
and its neighbor, Baltimore, have dozens of
these small distilleries. The whisky is
crude, fiery, all of this or last month’s vint-
age, sold and drunk directly it is made.
Naturally it drives the drinkers nearly crazy.
Since prohibition opened three weeks ago
the number of assaults and rapes by negroes,
the victims being white women, has increased
to an appalling degree; and one particularly
dastardly attack by a big blackfellow upon
a widow brought the climax in racial riots.
‘'Hamer”: It isn’t safe to assume that all
military V.D. patients are absolutely cured
before discharge in Australia. There is a
fatal inclination amongst some doctors to
be “good fellows” over these matters, and
to rely on the promises of men who are
anxious to escape restraint. Amongst the
men at A.I.F. Headquarters, London, there
were numerous cases of V.D. which “good-
fellow” doctors did not send to Bulford.
The men were living in billets of their own
finding, mostly in comfort, and the doctors
relied upon their good sense to follow in-
structions and cure themselves. Some of
them didn’t have good sense—or even
decency. On returning transports there are
always a few men reporting for V.D. treat-
ment ; and in most cases these are dis-
charged, declared cured, just prior to
arrival at ports of disembarkation. Of
course they are not cured, although cer-
tainly no doctor is likely to grant discharge
SURE OF HIS PROGRAMME.
“Supposing you drew first prize in Tatt’s
what would you do?”
“Not a bally stroke.”
to a very bad case. They are simply given
their discharge on the understanding that
they will continue treatment and abstain
from liquor until completely cured. What
are the odds that some, at least, forget the
last part of the contract?
(Continued on page 18.)
AMERICANT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Australians, a stern appeal,
A cry of anguish thrown to you:
To native weaknesses be leal,
Assuming you must have a few
In any circumstance at all,
When trouble takes you by the throat,
Don’t, don’t remark with nasal drawl:
“It gets my goat!”
And never wail in accents dree:
“Oh, gee l”
In asking questions at a pinch
Don’t say: “You get me?” and so on,
Nor ’speak of something as a “cinch,”
Nor swear “By Hec!” nor say “Dog-gone!”
If, meaning woman, you say “dame,”
I’ll hate you all till kingdom come.
To say “some girl’s” a thing of shame,
And “on the bum”
Is worse; while loathly is the cry
“Wise guy!”
You say “Poor simp” more than enough ;
Too often murmur “He’s a mutt.”
And talk of “jays” and “bug-house stuff,”
And dub a lunatic a “nut.”
Don’t speak of “boobs”—it makes you one—
Nor “Can that stuff!” with foolish grins.
Sin if you must, but don’t, my son,
Sin others’ sins.
Let all the vices be home-grown—
Your own.
VICTORIA.
DIDO.


u&m\
m
Q
m
*\
2
N
m *>
vjs;
? \
y y ■ •»
v« J|'»‘
12
Aib
K£!
<r:
_/
kI
v^-
!i1
zn
rri’Ti
?S=
§
iiuiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii mill hi
'llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll tuiai anil i ii lit
53
£
Wkvl
(Pbmola Piaixas are
£0 nwick better Vahie,
IT
HERE is obviously a considerable saving when you can purchase direct from the manu-
factory, avoiding all substantial middleman profits, hence, in buying first hand from
the Pianola Company who produce all their own instruments, you must receive ever
| so much better value. The middleman’s profit is saved for your benefit.
The makers of the Pianola Piano are a world wide
concern which has pioneered the way introducing
many valuable and ingenious ideas, making possible
everyone participating in ihe greatest of all pleasures —
piano-playing without effort or the need of laborious
learning.
Thus from this self-contained organisation unusual
advantages are enjoyed by all who patronise it for
it adopts exclusive methods of making and dis-
tributing, producing a magnificent instrument, as
perfect as human skill and money can mak** it.
You have therefore everything to gain by purchasing a Pianola Piano which comes direct from
the manufactory to your sitC\ng-room. Thus you will save many pounds and you gain the pro-
tection of buying from a Coi.'vpany that knows the intrinsic value of the article itself, and this
guarantee means so much to ) v>u.
PIANOLA PIANO MODELS are in
The Stein way, Steck, Stroud, Aeolian, Farrand and the English-made eber.
The Pianola Co.
PTY.
LTD.
“ The Centre for the World's Greatest
Achievements in Musical Instruments!"
384 George Street
Sydney
••
••
Mail Us This Coupon
The PIANOLA Company.
Please send me Pianola Piano Illustrated
Catalog and the price and terms of pur-
chasing.
Name
Address


Y
\
10688
The DrinK of ibe
Connoisseur —is
BRI/IDS
WHISKY
MILD
MELLOW
To meet the
demand
TOOHEYS
Have brewed a
Special Stout
Equal to Imported.
TRY IT.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Motel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing IDirecto".
“Tin Hat”: E. Bennett, an old Crimean
veteran of 92, living at Carlton, is not likely
to forget the return of Billy Hughes to Mel-
bourne. Noticed among the crowd that
packed the Town Hall, the old chap was
picked up and given a seat on the platform,
and there, proudly displaying his medals,
he piped up in the Diggers’ choruses during
the wait for Billy. When chairman Palmer,
of the R.5.5.1.L., introduced the old soldier
and announced his age and war services, the
boys applauded with their usual vigor,
crowned him with a Digger’s hat, and started
a collection that jingled and swelled until
the only thing that could hold the silver
and odd notes was a bucket. The presenta-
tion was made by Hughes, and I’ve been won-
dering ever since how the old fellow got it
home.
“Emma G.”: Major-Gen. White is quoted
as saying that the rifle and the bayonet were
the deciding factors of the war. The state-
ment shows an utter failure to face the facts.
At the hands of the Germans we had a
pretty thorough object-lesson in machine-
guns as far back as August, 1914, and the
teachings of the Boer War experts should
have been scrapped forthwith; but four years
later the main efforts of infantry training
were still centred in and around the rifie
fallacy. We had only one Lewis-gun (port-
able and worked by one man) per com-
pany right on till late in 1917. My experience
during 2} years in France must have been
fairly representative, and the most liberal
assessment of rifle damage done by my com-
pany could not amount to more than the
sniping of a problematic dozen or so of the
enemy. As to the bayonet, our one clear
record is the bayoneting of 10 more or
Jess defenceless Huns by one who was re-
garded as a bloodthirsty madman. As
against this it could be shown that the ser-
vices rendered by our single Lewis-gun were
almost incalculable- Determined advances
MORE PROFITEERING.
M AIE: “I think I’ve had MY fair experience
of men!”
GLADYS: “Unfair experience, I call it.”
were rarely, if ever, held up by rifle fire even
in daylight, whereas a few well-disposed and
well-provisioned machine-guns could hold a
whole division at bay night or day. The
facts, of course, were realised at last —but
almost too late. The Lewis-guns were
handed out just in time to meet and stem
the big rush. Perhaps the General was
speaking figuratively, and really referred to
morale and infantry man-power as having
won the war; but it sounded perilously like
the nonsense we had to swallow for years
against the evidence of our senses.
"R.S.V.P.”: Vic. Laborite Arthur Page
has been interesting himself in the national
bathroom. He has even persuaded the Muni-
cipal Assoc, to stir, so that presently land-
lords may be obliged to instal a bath in every
dwelling . they own. The thing should be
done, of course; but the owner is entitled
to some protection, too. A client of mine
owns a cottage or two with bathrooms. One
tenant, a dray-driver, used the room for
years as a feedhouse and the bath as a bin.
Numbers of home-industry people, such as
furskin tanners, photographers, etc., use their
bathrooms only for trade purposes. Mostlv
a new bath has to be put in by the land-
lord when such tenants leave. It is partly
a result of these abuses that the tendency
of the landlord-class nowadays is to build
cottages on the irreducible-minimum plan,
and an effort should be made to abolish the
abuses, so that the more decent landlord
may not suffer.
THE COMPLETE ANGLER.
“When Jim talks to you to-night put up a
bit of a barrage, dad."
“I’ll chuck him right out if you leant me to
he’s no favorite of mine.”
“Well, he is of mine—so don’t you go on as
if you were glad to be rid of me."
“Murkali”: The most the Telegraph De-
partment will do, after much long-winded
correspondence, is to refund the cost of a
mislaid wire and announce that the officer at
fault has been suitably dealt with. Only
very rarely do firms avail themselves even
of the right of having doubtful words re-
peated (done free if the telegraph is at
fault). Instead, an urgent wire is
pushed off to the senders of the original
message asking them to repeat it—“our
copy unintelligible.” The racing auto-
matic is responsible for a lot of errors.
But in the absence of more wires or the
adoption of one of the up-to-date methods
of multiplex telegraphy, the auto.
provides the only means of
coping with inter-State
business. Incidentally, on
account of the errors in-
separable from high-speed
auto-transmission, U.S.A. is
reverting largely to hand-
propulsion. But in Wilson-
land a dissatisfied firm can
transfer its business to
another telegraph co., which
makes them careful. In my
opinion the system of de-
livery by mere infants of 13,
absolutely without check of
any kind, is one of the weak-
est links in our service. The
restoration of the signature-
hook would do a lot towards tightening it
up.
* * * *
“Andigger”; I remember the Huns every
time I stand on a springboard. It was
very hot weather when we marched from
Corbie to Bray. Arrived at our destination
our first consideration was a swim. Many
lagoons were at hand, and we picked one
with a springboard all ready. W hen about
to plunge in we were warned off by some
Diggers who had been there before. Play-
ful Fritz had left barbed-wire spikes and
other edged things concealed just under the
water, and some divers had been terribly
torn about.
"Bacchus": Here's another Defence anom-
aly. Two Digger mates of mine, A and B,
have just returned. Both won commissions
in the field, and each has just celebrated his
24th birthday. A took part in practically
every stunt of importance. But he must
now resume training in the Citizen Forces —
a matter of a few days per year—while he
is fresh from 44 years' continuous service
under war conditions. B has been away 34
years; but he has no obligation for further
training in the G.M.F. because in pre-war
days he was ruled out as being under regula-
tion height.
“Malasea”: One of the problems that the
new administration of the territory that was
German New Guinea is going to inherit is
that of checking the ravages of the eocoanut
nest known as Promecocetha antiqua, which
has lately made an appearance in the plan-
lations in and around Rabaul and
Kokopo (Herberts hoe). ITome-
cocetha, if allowed to pursue its way,
will in a few months reduce a highly
profitable plantation to a non-paying
waste, and there is no hope of it re-
gaining its former value. The insect
principally attaches itself to the
leaves of the tree, and while it is
there can be eradicated without much
trouble simply by cutting away the
affected portions; but from the leaves
it gets into the trunk, and once there
long enough to secure a hold the kill-
ing of it is practically out of the ques-
riou. Spreading to other
trees takes place with
great rapidity, and be-
fore long the whole plan-
tation wears a wilted,
blighted look. At Talisea
Kay, i\ew Britain (where
in 3914 the Australians
captured the German
gunboat Komet), there is
the wreck of a £09,000
plantation, which was
reduced to utter ruin in
four months, and which,
until the present wide-
spread distribution of (lie
insect began, was the
only evidence of its
presence in the Bismarck
Archipelago. The De-
partment of Agriculture in Rabaul
is making an eifort to overcome the
pest with the aid of the red
arboreal ant, known generally by
its native name of karakum. This
fellow _ would sooner make a meal of
P. antiqua or its lava than anything else.
Gangs of natives are engaged in collecting
the karakum in large bottles for distribution
to plantation-owniers for compulsory use,
hut it is early yet to say whether the scheme
is going to he a success.
# *
The humors of Broken Hill, where the
permanent strike is. Deceased was a Hun.
He was shot while burgling. These seemed
to be his only qualifications. So lie got
a sort of official funeral. “The Bed Flag”
vas sung, and an impassioned address de-
livered about the revolution by a hairy spec-
tator. As the officiating parson left, a wish
was expressed that he might break his neck
on the way home. But he didn’t.
# * #
“Bildad”: With all his schemes, includ-
ing that of a Minister for Maternity, there
was one thing wanting in N.S.W. Labor-
leader Storey’s programme. He still shirks
the question of a Housewives’ Union. There
were at last census (in 1911) 718,202 per-
sons of voting age employed in a wholly-
unoiganised trade—that of being married
and looking after the house. In addition
there were 130,119 who had been married but
were so no longer, yet who in many cases
were still looking after the house and had
previously done so. To put it another way,
cio9oi Wel ’ e • T lB - 202 Positive “scabs” and
848,321 positive or probable “scabs” in an
adult population of 2,507,102. These people
have no _ fixed hours, wages or holidays.
Jiivery unionist whose mother kept house for
his father is the son of a “scab.” Every
unionist whose wife keeps house for him is
married to a “scab.” Practically everyone
who, has buried his wife has interred a
scab. And when a unionist asks a nice
girl who is already, on account of her voca-
tion, a member of the clerks’ or dressmakers’
union, to marry him and keep house, he is
asking her to leave a union business and
enter on a non-union one and become a
“scab.” _ It is not sufficient to say that
the position is inevitable and unavoidable.
If unionism can’t exist in an adult popula-
tion of 2,507,102 (last census figures—they
are more now) without including in the
figures tlie cheap labor, or. at least, the labor
for no defined wages, of 848,321 non-union-
ists, then it is in much the same position as
the old Louisiana planter who couldn't be
free without his non-union nigger. Soon
OTHER INTERESTS.
“Goodness, dear, don’t you know skirts are
worn longer now?"
“Oh, hut nobody looks at my skirt.”
or late the problem must be faced. Nothing
is gained by saying that the housewife
doesn’t want to be a unionist. She hasn’t
been asked. And if she doesn’t want, the
logical tiling is., to boycott or “victimise”
her till she does want, just as happens to
her non-union male contemporaries. She
should be declared “black” —in other words,
a negress, wherefore her son would be de-
clared a mulatto.
* * * *
“Solomon Malaprop” on fads and sundries:
An allegedly eminent U.S. physician, Dr. Page of
Boston, who has written many health books, has
come out with a “no-bath and no-underwear” gospel
for those who seek longevity. He is himself a vigor-
ous man of 79 —at least he looks vigorous, though he
is possibly a hollow mockery inside—and he may
have attained his years by following his own pre-
scription, or he may wash in secret. He says that
sufficiently unbathed persons should live to the age
of 115, though what age the people who live to lee-
ward of them will attain he doesn’t mention. Lest
his readers should at once think of the skunk he
turns their thoughts into other channels by assuring
them that many of the fashionable ladies of Boston
haven’t washed for 10 years.
A possible theory about Page is that he is a dirt
specialist by necessity. A general practitioner aged
79 is apt to find himself dropping into the ruck, and
there is money in being a specialist if one can find
a vacant niche. The vacant niche is the difficulty.
Of men who particularise in gout, heart troubles or
skin complaints there are too many; but a pro-dirt
expert should have an arable field to himself.
Certainly he is in a good country to experiment
on; for the U.S. is more tolerant of fads than any
other in the world —medical, religious and various.
The tendency comes by inheritance. The pilgrims
who went over in the Mayflower weren’t the first
settlers, as some people suppose, but they left an
enduring mark on their part of the country. They
were the people who had young engaged people
stripped and flogged and exhibited in the pillory for
kissing each other without the permission of the
church elders, and who flogged married people for
kissing in public or on Sunday. They didn't
persecute Catholics much, for they took all sorts of
care that there were none. When the Federal Con-
stitution disestablished all the State churches and
made religions equal it marked a feeling of revolt
against the Mayflower ideals, and the revolt led to
the toleration of many things besides religion. Even
dirt-fads are looked on more kindly by reason of
these flogging Puritans of old.
* * * *
“A.11.M.”: Wonderful wliat difference a
setting of eggs will make to a cargo of coal.
During the salt-water strike I was obliged
to travel on a collier from Newcastle to
Auckland. One morning a fireman saw eggs
being taken to the captain’s cabin for break-
fast. “Where do I come in?” lie asked the
steward. In an hour or so the speed of tlie
boat slackened considerably. When the
Black Squad were asked about it they re-
plied, “Bad coal, sir.” The mate, who had
been told about the eggs, “took a tumble,”
and next morning the stokehold bad eggs.
The coal at once improved, and the old boat
arrived at her destination a few hours be-
fore schedule time.
DISILLUSIONMENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Artificial sunburn is considered more than smart
just now.”
A charm is Edith’s airy grace,
That tells of freedom ’neath warm skies.
She does not softly veil her face,
Or shade the sunlight from her eves.
Her beauties all of nature speak ;
The, sun itself lias kissed her cheek.
When first I saw that rich, red blush
The sun upon her cheek had Raised, '
A hundred visions, in a rush,
Came to my mind, and each I praised,
Of Edith, innocent yet wild,
Surf-loving, sportive—Natuie's child.
Amongst the paler girls I know
W ho shield themselves from sun and wind,
Edith stood out in warmer glow ;
I saw in her a wider mind
Fed by the' true, strong things of life—
The perfect woman for a wife!
A charm is Edith’s airy grace
That tells of sunlit southern skies;
Upon her rounded cheek a trace
Of warm Pacific sun-kiss lies !
East night, last night, to my dismay,
I kissed my rival’s kiss away!
x.s.w.
HAMER.


v-" :
MADE
I'M
m
FPL A
„,>s
Side view
of
Key Action.
y i
mu
■■
I**
-S
1
9.
3
The Seale Piano Aciion-
cl £ew o£ its superior £ecvtures
1. The whole of the Beale Piano action is
manufactured from a special kind of timber
which does not split, warp or crack. It is
exceedingly tough and the various parts can be
brought down to the light weight necessary for
a light touch, without sacrificing any of that
strength which durability demands.
2. The hammers, dampers and all other felt
pieces used in the Beale Piano are made from
pure, Australian Merino Wool of the finest
grade. Such wool will remain “live for the
greatest number of years, giving a quality of
tone that is appreciated by the true music lover.
When you decide to have a good piano, investigate the Beale. Terms if desired.
Ab
3. Every piano-action mechanic knows the
superiority of the front escapement, double-
repetition type of action, such as is found in
our instrument. This is the most responsive,
sympathetic and utterly reliable action known
to piano builders. It guarantees a touch
that delights the technically proficient musician.
4. A Beale key, made of genuine spruce, from
a built-up piece of timber; the strongest
possible construction. Ivory is the pure, white,
fine grained East African and Egyptian variety.
The yellow West African and Indian ivory is
never used.
Showrooms:
[ Sydney
Factory:
I Annandale.
Branches throughout the Commonwealth..


SLICE
isiijs
THe
finest
TOBACCO
Will Not
Bite the
Tongue.
u
EDGEWORTH
JJ
Fencing Wire
GALVANISED—
No. 8 Gauge, £3O
per ton.
No. 10 Gauge, £32
per ton.
McEWAN’S,
Melbourne’s Busiest Hardware Store,
119-125 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
A
Signal Success
wm&E£i
IheTOP-WOTCH'ScotcK
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“FY7” : “D.F.,” writing in a recent
Bulletin of the earliest Kanakas in Queensland,
says they were not much good as shepherds. Many
of them really did very well at the job, but they
had a horror of loneliness, the South Sea islander
being, above all, a sociable bird. They proved a
godsend in the early ’seventies on the Western
stations, as house-servants and nurses for the young-
sters. They were great nurses. White houseworkers,
unless they were pommies (usually of a most use-
less and objectionable type), couldn’t be got out
west then at any price. As house-servants, too,
the “boys” were first-class, and as the big stations
lived up to their reputation for hospitality in those
days, they needed to be good. One night at North-
ampton Downs, on the Barcoo, my dad was carving
at the head of the table in the fashion of those
times, when the boy standing beside him pointed to
the floor and said, “Senaki, boss.” The old man
leaned over with the carving knife and chopped a
fine big brown snake in two. The pieces were carted
off, and after a new knife had been brought dinner
went on. Northampton was famous for its snakes,
and visitors took them as a matter of course.
* * * *
“Goonah-Goorah”: I also have known
most of the finest horsemen of N.Q. for many years,
including Peter the Spaniard, Billy Waite, Billy
Emmerson and Dave Black. I knew Waite before
Breadalbane station was going. Dave Black was a
fine rider, but never quite Waite’s equal. The
latter rode outlaws in a poley saddle, i,e., a smooth
saddle with no knee-pads, a feat Black never at-
tempted. Martini told me that Waite was the finest
buck-jump rider he had ever seen, and he was pre-
pared to back him against anyone in Australia.
Waite was anything but a circus rider, as has been
alleged. He was much more at home in the bush.
It made no difference to him where a horse “went
to market” with him. lie rode outlaws throughout
Bananaland and N. S. Wales, and fairly earned his
title of champion buck-jump rider of Australia.
“Melos”: When an undesirable crop makes
its appearance the farmer usually blames the seed
merchant, oblivious of the fact that birds often act
as agents in distributing seed. From the foot of
a partridge Darwin took a ball of earth, and found
therein 82 different kinds of seeds. He also took
a cupful of mud from the edge of a pond, and after
being, dried it yielded 537 plant seeds. Again, some
seeds eaten by a bird are too hard to be destroyed
by the digestive apparatus and are voided probably
hundreds of miles from the place where they had
been consumed. The matter of distance should not
occasion surprise when we realise that some birds
are capable of flying more than a hundred miles
per hour. Gatlce estimates that the curlew (sea)
can travel at the rate of a mile per 15 seconds, or
240 miles in an hour.
* * * *
“C.C.”: Up in the Eastern group of the
Torres Strait islands the natives have preserved a
story of two young white boys who in clays long
gone by were saved from a wreck, and who, contrary
to custom, were cared for instead of being
killed. Their ultimate fate is a mystery;
but they are possibly the same two lads
who were amongst the few survivors of
the Charles Eaton in 1834, and of whom
something more is known. This barque
left Sydney with 26 persons on board bound for India.
Near the Sir Charles Hardy group, when making for
an apparent opening in the reef, the vessel struck.
Five of the crew got away in a boat and reached
Batavia. The captain and passengers remained by
the ship for awhile and then launched a couple of
rafts. Of the people who were on these only two
were saved—a young fellow named William Ireland
and a little son of one of the passengers. The re-
mainder were massacred on reaching shore. A relief
ship, H. M. Colonial schooner Isabella, went
north in 1836 to look for survivors, and dis-
covered the two lads. They were ransomed
from the Murray Island natives. The only
traces of the others were found at Aureed
Island—l 4 European skulls attached to a
tortoise-shell native god. When rescued the
boy was unable to speak English, but talked
in the Murray language, and by pantomime.
* * * *
“Wart”: From the very early clays there
have been arguments between bushmen and scientists
as to whether there are two species of Tasmanian
tiger. The scientists say one, the bushmen say tv o,
defining them as bulldogs and greyhounds. The
specimens in any museum seem to bear out the
bushies’ view. There are thick-set big-headed ones,
and there are others more the size and build of a.
large collie. The tiger is still more numerous in
Tasmania than would appear from a casual inquiry.
Its habit of hunting at night, quite silently, and
taking the kill home to its den, where it lies close
in the daytime, helps it to elude observation. Not
long ago a large specimen was shot on Tulloch-
gorum, near Avoca, one of the oldest settled parts
in the Speck. The den was half-full of bones,
amongst them those of a half-grown calf. It is hardly
likely that the tiger could pull down a strong calf,
but that it dragged even a weakling to its cave
gives a good idea of the brute’s strength. The
hunters on the mountains say that the tigers and
devils will clean up the carcases of 20 big kangaroos
in a night. When there is any question of protect-
ing kangaroos on Crown lands for a year or two
this fact is always brought up to show that a close
season would be useless.
* * * *
“Snowdon”: “Yarrum” (B. 31/7/’l9)
asks why brumbies can tire out domesticated corn-
and-oat-fed mokes. The answer is easy. The brumby
fi om time of foaling is ever on the move, either
through being hunted or from false alarms of being
hunted. Consequently he is always in condition for
long gallops. On the other hand, the tam e horse,
reared in a paddock while growing from foalhood
never has a decent run and does not cultivate
stamina for distance galloping.
THE ONLY POSSIBLE EXPLANATION.
FIRST LADY OF DAIRY-FARMING DISTRICT: “’Ow docs she do it?”
SECOND DITTO: “ Must he waterin’ their milk.”
Dear B., — Re the controversy about hog-
gets. In “Bailey’s Dictionary,” printed in 1730, I
find “Hogacius, Hoggaster—a sheep of the second
year.” Also: “Weather sheep, a male sheep gelded.”
Yours, Dr. Nil,.
* # # *
“Merops”: I agree with “Eddyson” (B.
3/7/’l9) as to goat-meat being good. In my early
life all the “mutton” I ate was goat, and I prefer
it to any sheep’s flesh I have tasted. A wether goat
of 12 or 18 months in good condition is far ahead
of venison, being tender and juicy. Roast kid, three
to six months old, with mint sauce, is just the
thing for Christmas dinner in Paradise. Also,
Nanny’s milk is better than cows’ cream in tea.
Butter from her milk is very good, but it lacks
color. Anyway, you don’t drink color and its taste
is infrequent.
CASUAL.
“Where you working, Steve?”
“Wharves!”
“Good wages?”
“Oh, just what I can pick up.”
“Bouragi”: Re “Ragar’s” comment on
Papuan food preferences .(B. 14/8/’l9). It should be
understood that the order of precedence varies with
the locality. “Long pig'’ (human flesh), of course,
is first favorite everywhere, and after that, I should
say, comes the four-legged pork. You won’t get
a Gulf native to touch snake on any pretence; but
a Mamba native will eat Eve’s ancient friend with
the same openheartedness that he extends to any-
thing in the food line. I have seen a “boy” catch
half a dozen big frogs in a reed-bed, tie them to a
string and dangle them alive over a fire until they
were what he called cooked. Coming in a whale-
boat from the Giru to the Mamba we caught a seven-
foot shark. Twelve native police and a few native
friends had the whole lot out. of sight by next morn-
ing. That same day I shot a crocodile about 10ft.
long. My train ate him as well as their rations;
and next morning the sergeant asked if I would buy
a pig that was for sale, in case the crowd got
hungry before we got back to Tamota.
* * * *
“Central West”: If “Aneb” (B. 14/S/’l9)
is carting on level roads, even weight all
round is the proper rule for loading his waggon;
but if he has rough road to battle over, then a little
heavier behind is correct, as that will give his
brake grip. By loading too heavy in front the
waggon will not keep on the road no matter .how
good his shatters. In return for this information
will one of the mob tell me how to prepare a green-
hide for plaiting ?
* * * *
A Vic. school-marm’s story :
The school at The Branch was a staring, drab
weatherboard _ structure on stilts, standing by a
dusty road in a wide, flat sweep of barrenness,
iclie'ved by a few sheep and here and there a sprawl-
ing tree. I had been in charge about a month when
Copstone came in one Monday morning, and took a
seat m Class 1. Copstone was a little, fierce, brist-
ling man who had land about four miles back
towards Ararat. I expostulated. “I want t’ learn
E 1 ® growled Copstone. “But you are too
old, ’ said I; “I cannot have you as a scholar here.”
“Ain’t this fer State eddication?” demanded the
veteran, “V don’t I pay me taxes? Very well,
then ; I want you to teach me to write.” He arose
from his seat, took me by the elbow, and led me
into a corner, where he explained in a low, troublefl
voice: “It’s all along of Tomms. You know Tomms ?
As, dirty a scoundrel as ever ’obbled, Tomms is, ’n’
he s got land next' to mine. For ten years he’s
been livin’ there, ’n’ all the time he’s been a miser-
able, creepin’ mean hound doin’ me dirty tricks,
’ll’ me never able to get no satisfaction. Now he’s
gettin’ on, ’n’ he’s ailin’, ’n’ may be he’ll pass out
soon ; but he’s deaf as a post, ’n’ he’s always bih
deaf as a post. So that’s why you gotter teach me
to write, ’n’ quick too. I gotter tell that feller
what I think of him afore he dies!”
(Continued on page 22.)
THE HONEY-SEEKERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Honey-bird and honey-bee,
Whither are you going,
Now the flower is on the tree
And the wide land glowing?
Honey-bird and honey-bee,
Whither are you going?
Winged with fetterless delight,
Time and hurry scorning,
Round about you, in your flight,
Merrily shines the morning.
Winged with fetterless delight,
Go ye, trouble scorning!
Fine it is with kings to dine
In some stately palace!
Never yet was sweeter wine
In a richer chalice
Than the golden wine ye sup
In green Nature’s palace.
Filling crop and honey-sac,
Drunken with rich honey,
What to ye are burdened back,
. Time and tide and money?
Filling crop and swollen sac,
Drunken with rich honey!
Singing, humming, blithe and free,
Far from cares that burden,
Never was there minstrelsy
Paid with sweeter guerdon ;
Only minstrels, blithe and free,
Such a joy unburden.
AT THE BUSH MEETING.
IRATE STEWARD: “ Get down off er the
bloomin’ prize — won’t he worth cartin’
home by the time you’ve finished jump-
in’ all over it.”
Had I heart and holiday
I'would up and follow
As ye saunter far away,
Over hill and hollow,
Far away, and far away
Track your flight and follow!
As some leisured lordling sups,
In the good, gold weather,
Ye shall drink from scented clips,
Scarlet bowls, together ;
Flowering bowls and blossom cups
In the good, gold weather.
Far away, onrush and tree,
Ye shall find your treasure;
Bright your lives, as ours should be,
„ . ...
Sweet with song and leisure;
Fir awav on bush and tree
tai away, on Dusn and tiee,
Gleams your golden treasure.
n.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.


NOVELS for AUSTRALIANS
Here are 10 novels by Australian authors which have recently been added
to the
“Bookstall” Series of
Australian Shilling Novels.
11- each
AIL ONE
- PRICE
I|l'> Posted.
ALL BOOKSTALLS
and BOOKSELLERS.
“The Coral Queen”
“White Savage Simon”
“ Sally: The Tale of a Currency
“ Red Mountain ”
“ The Outlaw’s Daughter ”
“ The Mount Marunga Mystery
“Aladdin and the Boss Cockie”
“ Dawn Asper ”
“ The Squatter’s Ward ”
“ Yellow Silver ”
By Beatrice Grimshaw
By Beatrice Grimshaw
Loss **
By J. H. M. Abbott
By Jack McLaren
By Arthur Wright
By Harrison Owen
By Randolph Bedford
By Broda Reynolds
By Edward S. Sorenson
By Edward Meryon
Every one of these novels has been an instantaneous success. Though several have been in
the booksellers’ hands only a few weeks, they have already run mto second editions. A
glance at the list of authors is sufficient to indicate that recent additions to the herien
represent the
BEST AUSTRALIAN FICTION OBTAINABLE.
JUST PUBLISHED—
“THE DOINGS OF DAVE.”
By CON DREW.
A great book of humor, presenting confidence men and other “crooks" in a new light.
Generally the public is the victim of their exploits, but Con Drew humorously shows what
happens when one confidence man tries to “put one over” Ins confederates. All the old tucks
are given a new interest by this popular sporting writer.
Price: ONE SHILLING (Is. ltfd. posted).
WRITE FOR A COMPLETE CATALOGUE OF “BOOKSTALL” NOVELS.
Over 2,000,000 copies have been actually sol«l.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL GO. LTD.,
476 George Street, SYDNEY.
SMART “ALL WOOL” SUITS
TAILORED
TO ORDER.
Moderately
Priced.
You cannot beat our cut and
finish. Dress up for Spring.
Suits strictly hand-tailored in
the Leviathan workrooms, by
skilled workers.
Leviathan
Tailoring
Materials —“All wool,” of Aus-
tralian Manufacture. In Pat-
terns, Appearance and Wear
equal to the best.
Just opened—
New Season’s BLUE and
BLACK TWILL COATINGS,
for Special Spring Offering.
The “Quality” Suit
To Order,
£7171-
Write for Patterns, Home
Measurement Chart and Tape.
10 Per Cent. DISCOUNT
allowed to Returned Men.
ORDER BY POST.
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
m
-m
iiSS
MlifUm
m
7WW :
■
■■vv"
H
Leviathan
Cor. Swanston &
Bourke Streets,
MELBOURNE.
mm
]
m
isßwr: isK*
KiftSS© HS5i«3SSii»
i
i a
i sbb VjP
4 %&-.. Mpi
■ !■—» ■■
Ml
B
m
■ I i
m
Rifely - J
%,- g* 'V.
'
■
-.
Group of Roll Shells for Ore Crushing Rolls as supplied to the Principal
Mines in Australia.
Steel Castings
Crushing Spares
FOR ALL CLASSES OF
Ore Reduction
Machinery.
CAST STEEL:
CAMS, HEADS,
ENDS, GEARING, etc.
BATTERY LINERS,
SHOES and DIES,
TAPPETS, TUBE MILL
SPECIAL HARD CAST STEEL:
For ROLL SHELLS and PARTS which require to be
machined, but which are required to give a maximum
amount of wear.
MANGANESE CAST STEEL:
For BALL and TUBE MILL LINERS, ROCKCRUSHER
JAWS, MANTLES, CONCAVES, TOGGLE SEATS, etc.
Send your INQUIRIES with SKETCHES and DETAILS to the MANUFACTURERS
CHAS. RUWOLT PTY. LTD
Victoria Street, Richmond, VICTORIA.
Agents for New South WaIes—ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO., Circular Quay East, Sydney, N. S. Wales.
Agents for Queensland—AUSTRALIAN MACHINERY COMPANY LIMITED, Mary Street, Brisbane, Queensland.


PERMANENCE
vT
O
O
c
a
fv
*
X
Cr>
PERMANENT
TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W. LTD.
. Incorporated 1888 by Special Act of Parliament to act as
Trustees—Executors—Attorneys— Ag'ents.
CAPITAL: Subscribed, £1,000,000. Paid up, £30,000. Keserve, £16,900.
Trust Funds at present under the Company’s control exceed £5,300,000.
Directors:
Alfred; G. Milson. F. N, Yarwood, James Moik.
W. C. Goddard. (Chairman). O. E. Friend.
A. PERCE \ AL BED! ORD, Manager. Write for Booklet. j, w. Barnes, Assistant Manager.
25 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
“R.S.Y.P.” : In some Vic. districts thin-
ning out of the native timbers into shelter-clumps
proves fatal to the trees left standing. Instances
are to be found on Maragyle, the Bullivant breth-
ren’s cattle-run in the Tooma region—not to be
confounded with Meragyle, in the same neighborhood.
On Maragyle trouble has overtaken many beautiful
trees left by the cleaning-up of paddocks into a
suitable proportion of grass and shelter. The un-
touched gums begin to die at the top and gradu-
ally give up the ghost entirely. One explanation
might be that the roots are near the surface and
their subjection to sun and weather is too much
for them. Maragyle is in hilly country, however,
and has a good rainfall. In the Mallee and Wimmera
similar thinning operations are not generally disas-
trous to the remaining trees. Can any Abo-
arboriculturist suggest an elucidation ? As to the
quaint naming of the two ’gyles, there is often
a close resemblance in the one district between
black brother’s legacies of native speech, but this
is the nearest 1 know of. Cases such as that of
Boombeta and Coombetn, Binghi’s names for twin
hills at Chillagoc (N.Q.), are common enough;
but the mere difference of a vowel-sound must mean
some confusion when the accent is on another vowel,
as with the Tooma pair—-the second syllable, pro-
nounced “ah,” being stressed.
* * * *
“Mrs. Lance Rawson”: The most extra-
ordinary request ever made to me was from a young
black gin who was wet-nursing a puppy for a fancier
in Maryborough (Q.). Bella wanted to go to town,
but she did not want to take the pup ; so she brought
him along to n.c in an old felt hat. “I say, Missie
Lance, spos you look out puppy belonga me while me
go longa Maryborough. Me do plenty work longa
you next week. This feller puppy quiet good-feller.
Him not want suck too much. Him sleep longa
night very good.” Her language when I refused
the honor wasn't polite. Her mildest remark was:
“Mine thinkit you very stingy woman.”
“J. Law”: A solicitor in one of Vic.’s
northern towns was recently disturbed amongst his
musty documents by the sight of a whiskered client
staggering up his steps under a bulging woolpaek,
with two hefty sons in his wake lugging a tin trunk.
Just as Sixandeight was wondering if his office had
been mistaken lor the local furniture store Bill
Saltlick explained that lie had called with the neces-
sary to settle for a recent purchase of land and
stock. When audited the receptacles were dis-
covered to contain £1320 in sovereigns, £4OO-odd
in silver, and a trifle in coppers. “Of course,” said
Saltlick, with a show of apology, “I’d hi*.’ brought
it to yer in notes, but I darsen’t keep ’em because
the r:its are so bad out my way.”
“A.M.1.”: If within three weeks I don’t
receive information by which I can break my collie
of the habit of rushing in and biting the sheep 1 H
brain him with a leading article out of the S. M.
Herald. I’ve tried everything else I know.
* * * •
“Toby O.”: The difference. Recently
whilst some 900 idle men bustled for positions at the
Townsville Police dep6t, where Government rations
at the rate of 10s. per week per man were handed
out, three young chaps from down south strolled
to a belt of gum country 40 miles from Strikeville,
pitched camp and dropped a line of ’possum snares.
Result for eight nights’ work, l6doz. good pelts;
average local price, £ 2 ss. per doz.; nett returns,
£36. They are still boxing on, and find it better
than cadging a crust from the taxpayers.
* * • •
“A. B. Kan” : Talking about the destructive
habits of water-hens. John Cable has a pastoral
lease at Ivurnalpi, (AY.A.). Ilis lucerne patch of
about three acres was coming on splendidly when the
chooks took possession and devoured the lot, in-
cluding the roots. Incidentally, we are having a
very good season generally in A A". A. baekblocks this
year.
SWAGGIE, 1920 EDITION.
“The swagman was practically out of date. He
had met men in certain districts going out to work in
motor-cars.” —Press item.
“Got a bit o’ flour and sugar, missus, an' a
drop o’ petrol?”
“Fern”: During the unusually long and
beautiful autumn evenings experienced in Gippsland
in February, March and April of this year, the
“magpie” (or black) flying-squirrel was well placed
on the programme. Each evening some of him ap-
peared about the same time after sundown, and I
NOT SURE TO A YEAR OR SO.
THE KIND GENT.: “And how long has your husband been out of work, my poor lady?”
MY TOOK LADY: “Well, I ain’t quite sure whether we was married in ’8O ’81.”
have watched them sitting on a dead limb attend-
ing to their toilet, with their absurdly long tails
swinging below. They , paid no attention to the bark-
ing of dogs nor yarding of sheep. There are three other
varieties, one small grey, whose common fate it was
to be caught by the tail on a barbwire fence, and a
still smaller grec - one, which makes a charming pet.
Ours amused us for over 12 months, when we forgot
to leave him a cup of water one night, and he
drowned himself getting a drink out of a kerosene
tin. He ate only cake. Another pet lived in
captivity for six years. The smallest of these
squirrels is a tiny one like a mouse with a flat tail
and fur like the sugar-squirrel’s.
“Jim Carew”: In the Monaro (N.S.W.)
I recently witnessed a ding-dong, all-in scrap between
two magnificent specimens of the eagle family. One
was a mountain eagle and the other a black eagle.
The dispute arose over a dying
sheep, which both claimed, and
they set out to settle it as
gentlemen should. They flew
about 50 yards from each other;
then, at a height of about 60ft.
from the ground, they turned and
got at it. They met face to face
with a bump, seemed to get into
a clinch and remained there,
pecking and clawing at each
other as fast as they could. After
remaining in the clinch for nearly
five minutes, they both fell
heavily to the ground, with the
black eagle on top. He kept his
advantage, and in about three
minutes the mountaineer was
dead meat. The black tried to
fly off with his late opponent,
but was too badly mauled to lift
him. After two or three in-
effectual attempts he managed to
hoist himself into the air and
wobble off towards home.
* * * *
“Pick”: When Jim Swallow was boss
of our relaying gang on the Cooma line we pretty
well kept all the ’longside booze shanties going. Jim
was first and last to the bar every visit. One even-
ing as we were lining up, the tonic dispenser re-
marked to a bystander: “Here are my working bul-
locks again.” Jim stopped dead and put it to us
if this was the cheese! He finished his oratory
by electing himself chief swearer-off from the work-
ing-bullock act. That was back in the ’nineties, and
Jim’s constant adherence to the oath is still the
cause of a mighty slump in the beer trade between
Goulburn and Cooa.a.
“Pick”: Among daytime roosters the
mopoke is the most difficult to locate, though he
sleeps outdoors and makes no effort to hide. In
fact he seeks for his perch the projecting end of a
shattered limb or tree-trunk, where his characteristi-
cally rigid form may be silhou-
etted against sky or background;
but so much does his streaked
slate-grey and brown color match
that of the weathered timber, and
the ragged feathers of his crest are
such a perfect imitation of the
jagged ends of a splintered
branch, that a bushman might
work within a few feet without
detecting him. Even his eves,
large and round yellow orbs when
open, are so contracted that they
resemble an uneven wood crack,
and his straddled tail feathers
are easily mistaken for wisps of
dried bark. To further the de-
ception pairs of mopokes often
perch together to counterfeit a
dead tree-fork, and heart disease
comes upon any unsuspecting fowl that attempts to
alight betwixt them.
“E.S.S.”: “Karaji” (B. 14/8/’l9) says
there is no foundation for the statement that the
dingo dates back to the Pliocene, except Prof.
McCoy’s opinion, which was not backed by fossil re-
mains. In “Animals of Australia” Lucas and Lc
Souef state:—•
There is evidence which takes the dingo back to
times before the aborigine set foot in Australia.
The bones: of the animal have been met with in a
fossil state in several localities in Victoria in what
Sir Fred McCoy considered to be Pliocene deposits,
and associated with the bones of the extinct thyla-
coleo, diprotodon and nototherium. And similar
remains with similar associates were found in the
caves of the Wellington Valley (N.S.W.). “In a
well-section at Tower Hill (Vic.),” says Brough
Smyth, “63ft. of volcanic ash was passed through,
and then 60ft. of blue and yellow clay ; here were
found the skull and bones of the dingo.” There is
no evidence that man was in existence in Pliocene
times in Australia, or indeed anywhere else.
As the dingo evidently worked down from the-North
he would be hunting a long' while in those regions
before he spread to Victoria.
“Azac” :. Some examples of the endurance
of the Australian horse. One Galwayne, horse-
trainer, mentions having ridden a mare 168 miles in
two days. Archie Ferguson, of AA'allon (Q.), rode
a little horse named Billy Button 70 miles between
midnight and the daylight of the following morning.
P. Bolger, on a horse named Boomerang, rode 105
miles between sunrise and sunset. This was near
Rockhampton. A doctor at Mudgee (N.S.W.) drove
a pair of ponies 120 miles in one day. Mr. Evans
(17st.) rode in one day from a station near Hill-
ston to Hay (N.S.W.), 111 miles. Mr. Henry, of
Swan Hill (Vic.), had a station 110 miles distant,
and frequently drove this distance with half-bred
Clevelands of his own breeding in one day, returning
on the next, thus doing 220 miles in two days.
Another Australian horsebreeder, 13st., said that in
1873 he rode a half-bred Cleveland 95 miles between
6 a.m. and 10 p.m., with only two breaks of 3-hour
each. The Queensland Department of Agriculture, in
a recent article on the Suffolk Punch, recorded the
performance of one of its horses of that breed which
covered a waterless journey of 120 miles with only
two hours rest.
• * • •
“Merops”: “Glen Aire,” in a recent
Bulletin, mentioned that many bones and stone tool-,
of blackfellows are to be seen between Aire River
and Cape Otway (Vic.), although there was a belief
that aborigines did not frequent that district. I
was reared there, and found plenty of signs either
of many blacks being in the locality on occasions
or of a few being residents for very many years.
Their old camp middens, stone and bone tools, heaps
of shells, etc., are to be seen in various places. The
tradition about the last tribe at Cape Otway is that
it was only a small party of 11 natives under a
chief who was an outcast from the Geelong tribe.
When the Johanna schooner was wrecked at the
mouth of the river now named the Johanna, in the
early forties of last century, the crew made some
THE PHILOSOPHER.
SWAGGY: “I’ve seen tetter days.”
BOSS: “I dunno. This would be pretty hard
to beat.”
blacks lead them to Geelong, keeping them always in
front. When these natives were returning they
killed a shepherd and robbed his hut. Shortly after-
wards they murdered a man named Mooney at
Blanket Bay, five miles east of Cape Otway, Mooney
and his mate were part of Captain Smythe’s survey-
ing boat’s crew. These murders sealed the fate of
the natives. Shortly after the news got to Mel-
bourne a party of black police under a white officer
was sent down, and wiped out the lot except one
young gin, who vvas handed over to the Geelong
tribe. Mia-mias were to be seen on the Aire River
flats for years after my father went to Cape Otway
in early 1849. Along the stream were many forked
sticks driven into the mud in the shallow water,
and thesewere said to have been.used by the natives
for placing their dead on. Those I examined had
been cut with a stone tomahawk. No abos, except
black police were ever in the district after the be-
ginning of 1849, to my dad’s knowledge.
THE POWER OF PRAYER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Yesterday large congregations attended the vari-
ous churches to pray for rain. At eight o’clock a
steady fall set in at Gilgandra, Canowindra, Mudgee
etc.,” —Press item.
It was a record for the Lord!
The words were scarcely uttered
When on the land, in sweet accord,
The gathering raindrops muttered.
The weather changed from dry to wet;
And in the dark there fell a
Swift downpour forcing folk to get
The handiest umbrella.
Faith triumphed in so short a time
It seemed that Heaven was joking;
And ere the red dust turned to slime
Some homing saints were soaking.
But all the West is hot with zeal,
And, while the flocks go straying,
The sheepmen in a loud appeal
All day and night are praying.
One o’er a gin-ease lowly bows
Within his old bark skillion,
While to the Lord he makes his vows
And asks Him for a million!
N.S.W.
P. O. M.


Most hoses externally look the same, and in many instances
one has to take it for granted that the requisite strength of
cotton, and quality of rubber is incorporated in its manu-
facture to enable it to withstand hard use. Not so with
Dunlop Hose. To safeguard purchasers and assure them
that the quality and construction is right to ensure long and
satisfactory service, we brand
DUNLOP GARDEN HO:
with one of our registered trade marks. We illustrate these
brands. Hose so embossed is our warranty to you of value
and service—it’s your guarantee that the hose you buy is the
product of an Australian house that has won a reputation in
this Country for high quality goods at a reasonable price.
We value our Trade Marks too highly to place them on goods
that do not give a fair return for their cost. Therefore,
when buying garden hose, order either “Dunlop,” “Oceanic,”
or “Federal,” according to the quality you desire, and
satisfaction will follow. Illustrated List on Application.
DUN LOP HOSE IS OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING STOKES.
P P P
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, Launceston, Hobart, and Wellington,
Christchurch, Auckland.
fM
m
jX
V _
tBS&
imm
m
G
'
’rU*.
m
P 54
* ■ * rV
• >
m
SSfRSf*
KK&
•>
HHIB
3^
IJH*.
SP
4p w.w
ggHg
ip
-•■'
ttki
♦ &c
©4
-/
2**?
**k
J'
? J\4
5f
M 3
tOPRM
v>*
tfS
' .->* it*
’. * v
:, v. •••<
■vs<
Sp3s
MS
«E»#agHr3S??
/aS*
iSdfS
m
s>
6
(itii/aat
~v
m*Mx,
\
fills
\V ,•
’!- :
ferr.
■£>
YM&&
hiJs vd '■■■-$ ‘j4
gISfeJS
i§StJ¥^
«;#
HR
*#l
Ssi*£iJB jSs?
&jf
m
sz
■
i S
wzm.
yyyrf i
imd
I m
WM:
r-,~
■ i.. ■'
S»^«W&I *
HS
dTTrr
II
•: .■•;
■jB3&SsliE£s
585
: i
fM
Si
*ts
ibt£<
•v:
jMw
■*
4 • ./.**
-#•
fHgf
-* **£M J 5
\b»
WMt
■
FEDERAL
• t
lIS
’M
B
,fi€*
w?
«w
o^-;n
wy^h
"s#r
jhOpf^fl
tBIHSI'!
ages
«l
< . <
ft?
SS«
©MI
1
DUNLOP -
MOULDED
SEAMLESS
m
WM
i-iri-
m.
«<*
«*r i
Wf J
'•*■ j
/
mm
It Pays to


CROUP
z
'fcT^
>*3
EVERY Drop of
“Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure”
means
Destruction to
Chest Troubles
(Coughs, Colds,
Croup, etc.)
W. G. Hearne & Co.
Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
New South Wales
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street, SYDNEY.
A Plain
Fact!
earth, formed a customs union, abolished
internal duties, and smote the outer world
with a heavy tariff. The sale of British
cotton goods dropped one-tliird in a year.
British merchants who had warehouses all
over Germany packed up and left. The
alarmed J. Bull ambassador recommended
the free admission of Hun wheat into Eng-
land as a bid for better treatment of English
cottons, etc. (In those young days the Hun
had wheat to spare, just like Australia, not
having an industrial population to eat it,
which is Australia’s case.) But Freetrade
only became a sort of gospel with the inrush
of gold from Australia and Maori land. If
the gold of Australia, Maoriland, South
Africa and Canada had been found in one
act and the profits had been a monopoly of
the Home Government, Britain might have
gone the whole hog. as Spain did, and become
a country which forgot industry and lived on
bullion. . But the metal came in gradually,
and, besides, there was a larger population
to spread it over; so Britain went partially
mad, and no more.
Freetrade only arrived in its most com-
plete form in 1890, and even by the end of
that year advanced people began to have
doubts about the new Joss. Some 300,000,000
people, being colored subjects, aren’t allowed
a free hand to make their own tariffs, and
about 320,000,000 foreigners in China are
compelled to admit British goods at a nomi-
nal duty under a treaty which was fixed up
by big guns. Those 680,000,000 supporters,
more than one-third of the world’s popula-
tion, giye the Freetrade theory some sort of
a standing, and prevent the expression of a
lot of frank opinion about it.
Freetrade is the only fiscal theory which
is ever forced on people at the point of
the bayonet. Which is another way of
saying that it is the policy which the strong
impose on the weak in order to keep them
weak.
Stendhal
“I confess to you that I pin my pride on
the hope of possessing a certain amount of
reputation in 1880,” wrote Stendhal in 1838,
and the point of the quotation lies in the fact
that it was about 1880 that posterity made
the belated discovery of his genius. Pre-
viously Henry Beyle, alias Stendhal, had not
even the pleasure of being notorious. The
discerning Honors de Balzac gave “Chart-
reuse de Parme” an ovation in 1840, but the
sincere raptures of a craftsman who was one
of the first to detect Beyle’s power as a
psychologist were too extravagant for a.
period that liked its literature nearer the
heart than the head. Even the dedication
in “Chartreuse de Parme” —“To the Happy
Few”—showed disgraceful optimism on the
part of the author, and “Le Rouge et He
Noir” seemed even less enjoyed than the
astonishing pendant to the novels, “De
l’Amour,” which had a sale of 17
copies in 11 years! Beyle, born a French-
man but christened Henry, died a Milanese,
so he is known on his tombstone as Arrigo,
which is Milanese for Harry. To my mind
his tombstone holds his nearest approach
to a masterpiece. You can feel the search-
ing irony of the sentence: “Here lies Arrigo
Beyle. Lived. Wrote. Died.”
Nowadays it is fashionable to have a vol-
ume of Stendhal on your bookshelves, and
since Taine dubbed him “a great psycho-
logist,” Bourget Brunetihre, Sainte Beuve
and even panting little Zola have led the
pack of self-sufficient detectives who person-
ally conduct you to the secret of his message.
Though one can hardly see the real Stendhal
for the guides, the hard worldliness of the
man is inescapable. It is his worldliness,
compact iu a steely utterance, which makes
his relentless wit exciting. lie says such
mordant things, often using a sweetish
adjective to cover the dagger in a noun, that
one cannot tell how far the gallant has been
submerged in the cynical philosopher. Stend-
hal was a steadfast man of affaires —he was
once third in the queue of a popular divinity
—but his conquests were more Pyrrhric than
lyric, and only left him memories to pound
into mots. Unlike Casanova, he had not the
power of a violent Past to capture the regard
of the Infernal Feminine. Nor had he the
appearance which is sometimes victorious.
Berlioz describes him in his Memoirs as
“a little pot-bellied man,” and Sainte Beuve
alludes to his turned-up nose “which was
rather Kalmuck in type.” An unknown com-
mentator declared that he had “the wit of a
diplomat in the body of a grocer.”
Stendhal’s principal literary output am-
ounted to his treatise on Love, several contes
and papers on travel, one of which was a
plagiarism of a book by Goethe, and the two
romances, “Le Rouge et Le Noir” and “Chart-
reuse de Parme.” One of the smaller stories,
“L’Abesse de Castro,” serves as a hors-d'oeuvre
to the two big romances, and Branciforte,
the enthralling young devil of the “Abesse,
is a philosophic replica of the other two
egoists, Julien Sorel and Fabrice del Dongo.
Into this precious and picturesque trio
Stendhal crammed all the ardors and heresies
of an exacting period. Historically it was
the anti-climax after the fall of Napoleon.
Stendhal, brooding on the twilight of the
vanished Emperor, believed there was a va-
cancy for a Super-Ego. So he projected him-
self into literature, and under the names of
Branciforte, Sorel and del Dongo, he develop-
ed certain fixed whims of conduct which
later became incarnate in Friedrich Nietzsche
and Shaw. As examples of the Stendhalian
egoism. Branciforte and Co. seem rather tar-
nished by modern comparisons, though they
are still commanding as literary figures.
Branciforte holds the attention without the
necessity of becoming fortissimo. Julien
Sorel is a swaggering success, though he
appears breathless in Ids endeavors to keep
up with Ids changing foregrounds. But in
del Dongo Stendhal has created a towering
personage. You follow Fabrice through his
associations with the delicious Sanseverina,
the demure Clelia and the Parmese Court,
your eye noting the scenery of his adventures
and your ear haunted by the dry
little ironies that deepen the formal
color of the prose. Essentially a por-
traitist, Stendhal mostly regarded a
background as the playground of his palette
He kept his genius for the invention of the
gallant company who stalk, driven by his
humors, through the pages of his novels. And
they are a throng of brilliant phantoms who
are only robbed by their origin of a stronger
human potentiality. Yet taking them exalted
by their egoisms and conceits, they are the
ancestors of a long line of literary characters.
One needs no imagination to see Julien Sorel
reborn in DostoiefEsky’s Raskolnilikov, the
curious eccentric of “Crime and Punishment,”
Willoughby Patterne, to whom Mr. Meredith
was a gentleman’s gentleman, is of suspected
Stendhalian descent. Henry James, Tolstoi,
Nietzsche, Samuel Butler, Turgeniev and his
Bazarov, Maurice Barrfes. and his “Culte de
Moi,” all owed some of their attitude to life
to the fat and tubby cynic, from Grenoble.
Indeed, the Stendhalian vein of philosophy
has positively become varicose in modern
literature.
Maurice Hewlett Calls “Chartreuse de
Panne” “the greatest novel of France.” It is
assuredly an enthralling narrative, attracting
the casual reader by its wealth of incident
and keeping the discriminating mind awake.
The leading lady of the story, Gina San-
severina, . is one of the most fascinating
women in fiction. One gets a charming clue
to her character when in consenting to join
Count Mosca in a Menage d deux she iron-
ically inquires: “Mais saves-vous qtte ceque
vous me proposes Id est fort immoral?” Then
there is little Clelia Conti, who, vowed never
to see her hero again, clandestinely meets
him in the dark and gratifies both her heart
and her conscience. Stendhal wrote this re-
markable book after he had finished with Nap-
oleon, whom he had served with unfaltering
loyalty from Marengo to the Retreat of 1812.
Though he lived mostly in Italy—considerably
at Milan, and afterwards as consul at Civita
Vecchia —and furthermore claimed that he
was a cosmopolitan whose country was
“where there are most people like me,” he
was in his blood and brain a Frenchman.
Looking at him after the lapse of nearly a
century, no one can doubt the wonder of his
performance and the weight of his authority
over writing men. Without the artifice for
grandiose visions, without the faith to manu-
facture heroes and scoundrels, without even
the character of a man of letters, he was still
the psychologue who spiked souls like butter-
flies and catalogued temperaments _ with
merciless skill. By some he is considered
greatest as a virtuoso of Love. Certainly his
“De l’Amour,” so well worth reading, so
little read, is a dazzling cinema of the human
heart.
JEAN SIBL
The Inky Way
“G.P.”: Signaller Tom Skeyhill (B.
21/8/TO) includes the late Joyce Kilmer in
his list of “war poets who are well received
in America.” Poor Kilmer, who lies buried
by the purling Ourcq, was so engrossed with
war-work that he had no time for literary
composition. Writing from France to his
wife (his letters along with his poems were
lately published) he said that the sight of
great actions in the doing had driven poetry
out of his head for the time being. Had he
been spared, he contemplated writing a book
.of verse about the war; but his actual out*
put in rhyme during his period of service
in France was limited to a few lines, amongst
them the poem he considered his best —-
“There is a Wood They Call the Rouge
Bouquet.” Prior to the war Kilmer had
made more than a good living as a lecturer
and reader of his own and other people’s
verses —a favorite profession of the U.S.
poet.
Jim Beckett, who turned up “the rounds”
for the Age to go north and look after black
brudder for the Commonwealth, has re-
turned to his old love after putting in some
time on the Herald. Clarence Weber, the
strong man, owes something to the energetic
Beckett, who wrote up the Weber-Singh
strangling affair at Wirths’ Circus and cre-
ated a white-Australian wrestling champion
in a night. ’Rustling is one of the penman’s
own hobbies, but his leaning is to Cousin
Jack style.
Lance Mattinson. “another of the wonder-
ful young men of the Australian Bulletin
school of black-and-white artists,” the Lon-
don Daily Herald calls him, has settled
down on the staff of the latter paper. Mat-
tinson, a Westralian, is specialising in sport-
ing caricatures.
C. R. Ferguson, for many years proprietor
of the Cobar Herald and Nyngan Observer,
died lately in Melbourne, a victim to the
’flu. Latterly his interest had been in the
timber forests of Gippsland.
Gwen Swinburne, M.A., who wrote the
“Source Book of Australian History” for
the G. Bell and Sons’ series, lately noticed
on the Red Page, is a daughter of George
Swinburne, formerly Minister for Water
Supply, who is now an Electricity Commis-
sioner and Defence Dept, business manager.
“Rosna” (London) : Clutha MacKenzie,
the blind soldier-son of Maoriland’s High
Commissioner, is a bright lad. After run-
ning a live little fortnightly in London for
his mates of the N.Z.E.F., he went home the
other day to stand for Parliament. He left
behind him a book of war-sketches with
publisher Lane, and a girl who is to follow
him and be married shortly. Her name is
Doris Sawyer and she was a V.A.D. at St.
Dunstan’s hostel for the blind when the
M.L. youngster was brought there from
Gallipoli.
Dear Bulletin, —It was very kind of
.someone to accuse me 18. 10/4/T9) of run-
ning the British Australasian bookshop
in London; but I am merely a member
of the editorial staff of the British Aus-
tralasian, and the bookerv is managed by
Jeffef.ys Scherek, son of conductor Benno
Seherek. Otherwise your
remarks about it are just. The store has
every Australasian book to he got in Lon-
don and a great many that aren’t to be had
anywhere else in England.—Yours, Alice
Grant Rosman.
Business, Robbery, etc.
A Melbourne firm trading in harvesting
machinery issues a comprehensive treatise
entitled “What Makes the Engine Go.” The
other day it received the following from a
cocky customer: —
Dear Sirs, —About the engine. Well,
We write to let you know
We’ve waded through the booklet on
“What Makes the Engine Go.”
It took us close on halt a day
To read through all the guff;
The engine goes all right, but don't
Keep goin’ long enough.
It's very good to understand
What makes the engine go,
But why the deuce the damn thing stops
Is what we want to know.
So now we’re making this request,
While tears and curses drop:
Please , send along a booklet on
What makes the engine stop.
The folks around here all await
With interest your reply;
To them, the reasons why she goes
Don’t seem to signify.
So while we wait and chew the cud
Don't let the matter flop ;
For Gawd’s sake write and let us know
Wl l AT MAKES THE BLKiIITFR STOP.
* * * *
“Onoto”: The wireless profiteer who gut
his hooks into “Wandewoi” (B. 14/8/T9)
can be none other than the “controlling”
Commonwealth Government, which owns the
coast stations in Australia and fixes the
rates. The charge for a wireless message
is made up of three parts—-ship tax, cbast
tax and land-line. In Australian Vessels tile
wireless co. takes 2d. per word, the Navy lid
and Webster Id., total Gd. A ship not
registered in Australia charges 4d. per word,
and the Navy shoves up its charge to Gd.’
while Webster takes his penny for sending’
the message through his departmental lines-
total, lid. per word. The rate for Aus-
tralian ships is the cheapest in the world,
the result of an arrangement made in 1913
by B.M.G. Wynne and Fisk, of Amalgamated
Wireless, Ltd.
* * * #
“Brock”: Queer trading signs wanted?
At htierra Leone a lot of us returning Dig-
gers were cheered by seeing on a shop:
fruiterer and Sympathetic Undertaker”
* * * *
“F.C.”: The war has helped the drought
to produce some queer results. Normally
you would just as soon expect to find ii
farmer or fodder merchant adulterating Ins
chaff with diamonds as with bran; yet it
is common at present, bran being £G iOs. a
ton and chaff £lO upwards.
* * * #
“Touchstone”: Concerning the “military
officialdom of the Commonwealth Bank in
London” (B. 28/8/T9). I dunno about
M s.P. going in, but 1 know they waited out-
side. They had a habit of not asking a
man for his pass as he went in to collect
the draft from home, but of waiting till
he came out with the money. I don’t know
why.
* * * *
The inability of a lot of people to think
of anything but wheat when “the land” is
mentioned was mainly responsible for the
arrival in Sydney the other day of 18,000
cases of onions from Japan. And the mar-
ket was so hungry that it waited oil the
doorstep for them.
* * * *
“Koonak” : Booze taken internally is the
easiest or hardest of booty to carry ashore—
it depends on the quantity you attempt to
shift. To get a drink out of a case of
bottled beer, you put the case on its side,
and after prizing off a strip of board about
two inches wide with your cargo hook, you
smash in the bottom of a bottle and insert
a rubber tube about 18 inches long. Gentle
suction does it. This instrument is called
a “Riley.” Each row in a case contains 12
bottles; bu t as only the ones bottom up can
be dealt with, each piece of board you split
out yields about a gallon. Bulk liquor is
dealt with by a gimlet-hole in the cask and
a billy. A case of whisky dropped to break a
bottle or two and then held over a billy gene-
rally gives about a quart Boots are handy
things to lift, but some big and soulless ex-
porters pack left foot mixed sizes in one case
and rights in another. This causes a lot of
unnecessary trouble. In one Westralian
port some time ago half a dozen of us turned
up to work in dungaree pants and shirts and
went home with new suits under our work-
ing duds. But accidents like that don’t often
happen.
* * * *
Re unusual prices for wool. E. P. Carter,
of Goldsbrough’s, has dug up the fact that
124 d. per lb. was realised for a bale offered
in 1821 among the first lot of Australian
clips to be put on the London market. It
was shipped by Captain John Macarthur.
* * * *
“556”: Overseas shipowners aren’t the
only ones who made a good thing out of the
strike (B. 14/S/’l9). With the larger inter-
state steamers idle small shipowners whose
tubs the strike hadn’t tied up saw their
chance and grabbed it. The going was speci-
ally good in the Melbourne to Tassy trade.
When the Loongana is doing her Launces-
ton trip freight is 11s. a ton; during the tie-
up the small steamers and sailers still bat-
tling across thought £2 10s. a ton a fair
thing. And they got all they could carry,
too, at that price. One schooner of less than
300 tons cleared £l2OO for a trip to Hobart
and back.
* * * *
“R.J.McD.”: “W. li. Crittenden,” in his
recent comparison of returns from various
crops, overlooks the fact that sugar-cane in
N. 8. Wales takes two years to mature. He
should, therefore, cut his sugar-cane figures
in halves, and thus in one act bring the
gross returns from cane to less than those
of the potato-grower. Not only so, but it
costs nearly £2B per acre to produce a
crop of cane, the plants alone costing almost
as much as the total return from an acre of
wheat. _ _ Cane-growing isn’t the gilt-edged
"imposition some outsiders think. On the
Clarence River there are 3000 acres less
under this crop than there were 20 years
ago. Farmers find maize or potato-growing
or dairying more profitable.


me.
wmmm
-s.—'
a® rmgmmm*.
: . :
...
i j
■iy:':W
mm i
* ■ .■ jk «■•*" * *■ •*
: «
l&MMali 1 &
*
msm
1
-•
MMi
V
(S
4
.
A
mmk
%
m
u
>
ts
n
K
O
•A
-1
>
ii
G
m
-
rV
<7
111
i
4L/
>
W
- -
;?.**
0
X
l
A
A
6.
*
\
c>
3
xX
*s>
Mr
I
o
o
rv
::<: :
?■*
N
i
* > •■•
o
@5
■
mm
mm
m
i
.
-
dK
siliill
sSs
8 ■
1
__
1. ■WI'IKIMWI
s-ssyr
-IT--1I niirr-nm —— ■
l
■.
x w T ,
■■■■_■ St
iSfv J
-
m
Apply to
WUNDERLICH LIMITED.
Herein you find the success of the Wunderlich System—Build your walls with DURABESTOS
—Asbestos —Cement Sheets, cover your roof with Wunderlich Tiles, and your CEILINGS
with our Stamped Steel AVork, and your dwelling will not only be the envy of others, but
a source of pleasure and comfort to yourself.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
The Ceiling People,
ADELAIDE, PERTH, BRISBANE,
HOBART, LAUNCESTON.


fiKrFgW?
Spy.,
f
'•'***.• • ~;. , V:- ;5
Aerial transport may come.
But meantime Rail or Ship
your WOOL to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Sydney OR Brisbane. LTD.
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York. U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d,
DRAWS
OUT
THE POISONS
which cause Bar*coo Rot,
Bad Legs, Sore Feet,
Carbuncles, Boils,
Poisoned Wounds,
Ulcers, Bunions,
Eczema, Piles, and
those arising from Insect
Bites.
The Proprietors of
GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT
have an absolute confidence in its un-
surpassed merits. They know it to be a
safe and perfect cure for all skin and
blood ailments; and the vast number of
testimonials received prove this.
GRASSHOPPER positively
draws the poisons which produce
these maladies out of the system.
As a tonic, liver medicine, blood purifier,
and for those who suffer from headaches, the
GRASSHOPPER PILLS
are equally effective. Do not be persuaded
to purchase any substitute preparations.
Sold by all Drug Stores and Chemists
throughout the Commonwealth.
£
<
$
v,
Tills Is the
Registered
Tirade Mark
Of the best
place to get
your
Fishing Tackle,
Guns, Rifles,
Cartridges,
Tennis Goods, etc.
818 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
INFLUENZA
Used In the Melbourne Hospitals
Brooke’s “Lemos”
The Purest Lemon Squash.
MARTIN’S PILLS
are sold by all chemists and stores. Ladies
recommend them. Be sure you get the
genuine with the signature:
MARTIN, Chemist, Southampton, England
mum
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust— Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES —Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS:
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited,
"Collins House," 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sydney Agent:
R. N. KIRK, 25 O’Connell Street.
Adelaide Agent:
A. W. IiKWIS, 62 Brooltman Buildings
Does This Interest Yon?
The Lightning
Package Packer
will accurately pack 1000
packages per hour :—Self-
raising Flour, Corn Flour,
Cocoa & Powdered Materials.
Send for Illustrated Catalogues.
Schumacher
Mill Furnishing Works Pty. Ltd.
Port Melbourne, VICTORIA.
ER
: ;f
m
. ?■:
«"■ SHALL
• IHVtST
I»NCLY
‘7
BY BUYING A TICKET IN THE
EIGHT-HOUR ART UNION
AND SPORTS.
PRIZES value
'Under sanction of the Attorney-General.) Drawn Nov. 1, 1919.
Ist PRIZE, value £750
2nd PRIZE, value £3OO
3rd PRIZE, value £2OO
and 397 other
Valuable Prizes.
CHANCE FOR 1919.
TRY IT. ••
Ist Prize in 1918 won by Mrs. Murtough, Ken-
sington. Sydney. N.S.W., for modest outlay of
GET A TICKET AND HAVE A CHANCE FOR 1919.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper, November 6, 1919. To
any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope a list *of the results will
be posted. Tickets may be had from Agents Everywhere, or direct from
Trades Hall, Sydney. ARTHUR W. YAGER, Secretary Eight-Hour Committee.
One Shilling
'./'•V
Uls
SUCCESS in man-power or motive-power is largely dependent
upon endurance.
The Maxwell Motor Car has stood the supreme endurance
test. It has run 44 consecutive days and nights without a single
stop of the motor, covering 22,022 miles. This official record was
made by the Maxwell under the observation of the American
Automobile Association.
If prospective motor-car buyers could read the testimonials
from Maxwell drivers, they would marvel how so sturdy and
dependable a car could be made at so low a price.
And endurance in a Maxwell Car has not been attained by
sacrificing speed, comfort or economy to the owner.
MAXWELL MOTOR CO., Inc.
OF DETROIT, MICH.
John D. Williams & Company,
Export Distributors.
2 Rector Street, New York.
Cable Address: “Liandum —New York.’
More miles per gallon.
More miles on tyres.
Messrs. Clutterbuck Bros. Ltd.
26-38 City Road, Sydney.
The Silverton Tramway Co.:—
Dividends on
Actual Capital Written Real
Dec Profits. ( £46,800). Off. Reserves
1907. .£108,478 158 p.c. = £7.4,177 £lO.OOO
1908.. 93,518 169 „ „ 79,122 1,031 2/6,043
1909.. 95,687 169 „ „ /9,122 11,400 281,208
1911:: ' 214 ” ”100,000 14,060 347;?03
1912.. 144,542 214 „ ~ 100,000 7,106 385,139
1913.. 148,918 2674 „ „ 125,000 8,228 400,8^9
1914 ! 112,142 214",, ~ 100,000 14,343 298,628
'' Written off renewals account, £20,000 3/8,628
1915.. 94,980 187 p.c. = 87,500 3,820 382,288
1916' 25 317 214 ~ 50,000 357,605
1917!! 75!540 214 „ „ 100,000 4,098 329,047
1918.. 74,305 160 i „ „ 75,000 3,958 3-.4,394
1919.. 65,084 160 i „ „ 75,000 3,818 310,660
This is an Outback cousin of Sydney Fer-
ries, Ltd., the Daily Telegraph Newspaper
Co., Port Jackson and Manly S. S. Lo.
and other money-spinners whose capital has
been built up with bonus-share issues.
Believing that Silverton, the centre of a
number of rich silver discoveries, had a
future, the Silverton Tramway Co. set out
to link that township with the S. Australian
railway system. But the Silverton finds
were mere trifles compared with what was
unearthed at Broken Hill, a few miles fur-
ther on. So the line was pushed into the
new centre, and the co. has been fattening
ever since. There are only 36 miles of
line, and £46,500 was all that was originally
subscribed to the co.* though promoters got
£16,000 in shares. Since then paid capital
lias been built up to a quarter of a million
by the capitalisation of £187,200 of profits.
Thus, though the dividend distribution for
the past loan year was merely equal to a
poor 30 p.c. p.a. on paid capital, on the
money actually subscribed the return repre-
sented the 100.1 p.c. shown in the table.
Owing to market and shipping difficul-
ties for Broken Hill products, and also be-
cause of strikes, the co, lias been having a
comparatively bad time during the past few
years, and it has not been earning the divs,
it has distributed. Since Dec., 1035, the
co. has disclosed net profits of £228,372,
find has handed out £300,000 —or £50,000
more than the paid capital—-to shareholders.
But the excess distributions have been
easily provided by dipping into the big cash
investments the qo. made in its fatter years.
This shows among other things how the
accumulation of liquid assets has been cut
into-
Dee.,’ls. June,’lB; June,T9.
Liabilities .. ..£38.826 £46,250 £5,990
Fixed assets .. .. 208,766 204,346 201,635
Fuel and stores . . 46,459 39,926 42,905
Sundry debtors .. 49,541 55,399 6,953
Cash-,etc. ... .. 162,818 117,793 113,562
The cO. still has considerable work ahead of
it; though some time in the future it may
meet with a certain amount of State com-
petition in the line which N. S. Wales is
pushing out to Broken Hill via Cpndobolin.
The transport of ore is, however,, the co.’s
chief source of revenue, and the N. S. Wales
line, even though it should pass through
Broken Hill and connect with the S. Aus-
tralian system, .may not Cut into that traffic.
There is the alternative that the co.’s line
may be taken over by the State some day;
tint AV. F. -'MacGregor, when he became a
member of the Assembly for the express
purpose of getting the private bill through,
■•took good care that the terms were all
right for the co. —something like 21 years’
purchase, or say a-million and a half for
the 30-odd miles. -
* * « *
AA'estralian State batteries earned £33,107
last year, but. expenditure was £41,757. Up
to date these mills have mushed' about 5|
millions sterling out Ot. gold and tin ores.
The cost, of running the batteries to date
exceeds receipts by about £85,000, but in
many ways they have proved to be of great
benefit to the State. ...
’ * - * ■' '’ : * * ..
Maimed solely by tribntors Oroya Links
(AA'.A.) last year produced £1.21,560, and
after paying all exes, and allowing for de-
preciation the co, showed a credit balance
of £5430. Assets, consisting of cash, public
securities, loa&S and 0750 shares in the
Burma silver-lead Corporation (valued at
cost) amounted at. the end of the year to
£73.130. The co. decided to undertake no
mining operations op its own account until
labor and' other costs) could be got down.
* *' ' * *
The Government bore which is being put
down at the Stuart’s Range opal-field. (S.A.)
has not yet given any hint that it will solve
the gougers’ water-supply difficulties. A
few weeks ago it was reported that water
had been struck, but it was a salty ooze,
and has since been cut off by the bore casing.
There are now about 80 diggers on the field,
soifie of whom have done very well. Opal
worth up to £25 per oz. has been dug out.
Opnliscd stuff has been traced for about 50
jmjlps, but only one five-mile patch has so
far been thoroughly prospected, and results
even there are a gamble. AA’ater and tucker
difficulties are the field’s big drawback.
* * * *
“AA r ayth”: When James Park, director
of Otago University School of Mines,
was assisting to apply the McArthur-
Forrest cyanide process for the treat-
ment of the AATdtakauri (M.L.) refractory
ores, littia did the average mining
man think that the system would make one
of the great gold-mines of the world at
Waihi, or that it would revolutionise thou-
sands of gold- and silver-mines all over the
earth. To the diligent and oft-times dis-
heartened pioneer workers at the Crown
mine all credit is due for the commercial
application of the process. It is on record
that the original Waihi co., using amal-
gamation only, crushed 18,000 tons of ore
for an average recovery of 7s. 6d. per ton,
with a tail discharge of 40s. To-day the
co. talks of a 95 p.c. recovery. As far back
as 1867, when Hunt and mates discovered
the famous Shotover lode, the refractory
nature of the ore was noted, and many an
anxious miner striking lode was in doubt
whether his ore carried gold or only mica
and fool-gold, as both floated on mercury,
though roasting and reamalgamation settled
the doubt. --


'yAe Return of Perfect
Ignition
a**
1
w
V
w
BOSCH GOMES BACK ACAIN
with all its old efficiency but with a new name
and a new nationality—now
9?w LIBERTY MAGNETO
The
Americanisation
of the Bosch
IN April, 1918, despite the
most skilful camouflage on
the part of the German pro-
prietors, a searching investiga-
tion revealed that the Bosch
Magneto Co. of New York was
completely German owned.
With the result that the Ameri-
can Alien Property Custodian
took over all its stock.
Since May, 1918, the Com-
pany has been operated under
his direction by a specially-
appointed Board.
In December, 1918, the final
step was taken, when at public
sales every German-owned or
controlled share passed into
American hands.
The Liberty Magneto has the
same efficiency in every respect
as the Original Bosch.
w
£350
ITH its coming, ignition troubles end. No longer need the
motorist endure the consequences of a faulty system—the
slow, sluggish, hard-to-start engine—the spluttering and
missing—the loss of power and waste of fuel.
Bosch is back again—Americanised and re-named ‘‘the
Liberty”—with its vitalising, never-failing stream of fire, to give you
the last ounce of power, vigor and snap from your engine, to save
your petrol and give you perfect running under all motoring
conditions.
Every car can have Liberty Ignition—there’s a Liberty Magneto
with special fittings ready for your car now.
DISTRIBUTORS:
VICTORIA: Ralph Williams, Goodwin Chambers, 386 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
NEW SOUTH WALES: George Wills and Co. Ltd., York Street, Sydney.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: McGregor Ltd., King William Street, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: W. E. Grigo and Co., King Street, Perth.


Hose of Luxite
Nobody can have better
Hose than Luxite—manu-
factured from the softest,
longest fibres and strong-
est yarn obtainable. Its
serviceability is a cer-
tainty.
Insist on having this
brand. Our enormous pro-
duction saves expense in
many ways, hence “ Lux-
ite” prices are always
low. The soft, full-bodied
shimmer of Luxite Hose
is acquired.
If your dealer is unable
to supply you, write us.
Indents and Wholesale thru
WALTER CATHR.O PTY. LTD.
50 York Street :: SYDNEY.
BULLDOG
GRIP
vJHt SELF VULCANIZING/
PATCH
“ WILL REPAIR ™
SIZE
BLOWOUT OR TORN PLACE 1
OBTAINABLE AT ALL OARAGES
PRODUCED ENTIRELY
IN AUSTRALIA.
FOR SEA SICKNESS
& TRAIN SICKNESS
MOTHERSILL’S has received the
unqualified endorsement of the leading
papers of the world, and the finest testi-
monials from the world’s greatest men,
women, and institutions. Amongthese are
Bishop Taylor-Smith ( haplain General
of the British Forces), Doctors, Bankers,
Polytechnic Tours, Salvation Army, etc.
Sold Under a Positive Guarantee to
Prevent and Cure Sea or Train
Sickness or Money Returned.
MOTHERSILL’S is guaranteed rot to contain
Cocaine, Morphine, Opium, Chloral, or any of
the coal-tar products.
NO BAD AFTER EFFECTS.
All Chemists, in Large and Small Boxes.
MOTHERSILL REMEDY CO.. LTD.,
Coraer Clarence 8 Market Sts.. Sydney,
THE GREAT BRITISH
RHEUMATIC REMEDY.
*\&'s
AND RHEUMATIC PILLS
The Famous Medicine that relieves
rhjjmahsm, gout, lumbago, sciatica,
The Great Discovery of the Age.
Purely Vegetable. Sure and Safe.
All Drug Stores. English price, 1/3 and 3/-.
Prout & Co., 229, Strand, London.
The Labor of Hercules
performed b MC
a drop ofi
iIIIZNKI
3Mmd
-r
V\>
h
VI
r r vv . v
l A ' :s
-* f
/ s
-'. -:
i **
H/rve
r
m
KJ
s—. —»r .-r^
V- V
S!
KP
B«.hwsii
Vsc
JP
CX)
\
r
r
El
■
II
PLUME
BENZINE
is the clean, powerful
Spirit that drives your
Car or Motor Van far-
thest and fastest. Moat
Motorists know that
“Plume” is a synonym
for “ Easy Starting—
Sweetßunning - More
Miles.” Obtainable at
all Garages.
A CONTRACT IS A CONTRACT
DYES.
THE reputation of our Pyramid Aniline
Colors has been established during a
period when it has not been easy to live
ud to our standards. The quality of our
Pyramid Aniline Colors is as firmly fixed
to-day in the minds of buyers as our slogan
“A Contract, is a Contract.”
Every shipment of our Pyramid Aniline
Colors is tested to see that it conforms to
our standards before it is allowed to go
forward. We will send our complete Dye Catalogue on request.
Specialists in the export of American chemicals.
Importers of raw materials for American inclustnes.
BUSH, BEACH & GENT Inc.,
80 Maiden Eane, Holbrook Building,
New York, U.S.A. San Francisco.
Cable Address (Both Offices) “Beachfred
iinni|iiiiininnnii)iiiiimiiuniiiiiiinuiiiiii)nininmi)iiniiimninnminn)iiiniinMinuimnnimiM.iniiiMi
BUSH, BEACH aGENTinc.
New York ~ SanPrsncisco.U.SA.
Q <9
©@
/
How to Set Your
Own Razor! j
A sharp razor is its own reward to the roan
who shaves himself, yet how to keep it sharp,
with tough beards, has always been the great
obstacle on account of the average man not know-
ing how to set or sharpen a razor. The simple,
yet expedient
PERFORATED HONE
solves the question permanently. You will won-
der why it was not thought of before, but it
provides a lifetime of easy shaving for a small
outlay—only 4/6. Buy a Perforated Hone —try it.
If it doesn’t make your razor shave to your satisfac-
tion, return it to us within thirty days and get your
money back.
KEEPS YOUR RAZOR KEEN AND TRUE.
Sold by all leading Hardware Merchants at 4/6, or post
free, 5/-, from THE PERFORATED HONE CO.,
2] Dept. 16, 123 Sussex Street, Sydney.
THE PALACE HOTEL,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OF PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
JOHN T. GLOWREY, Proprietor.
“Boz” : Clive Baillieu isn’t the first
Italian Cavalier Melbourne has had. The
late James Graham, of Elibank, South
Yarra, who was for some years Italian Con-
sul, was made a Cavalier and received the
Order of Moses and Lazarus. The bauble is
much prized by the family.
Melbourne’s hair-fluffers are having the
time of their • lives. Swarms of ex-’flu
patients are going bald as a result of their
experiences around 103 deg., and electric
massage is mostly told off to arrest, the de-
parting tresses. Even at a mere guinea for
a dozen whirls there’s excellent pickings in
the business.
“Gadder”: Here in New York, if a girl
feels like robing herself in the glory of
Solomon and the Queen of Sheba, all she
has to do is to ring up old Mrs. lkey Mo,
and furs and jewels and the latest thing
in creations are hers for a consideration
for one night only. However, it’s unwise
to do this on the night-out with the best
boy, for the lady in the borrowed plumage
is tracked from haunt to haunt by sleuths
specially engaged by the trade.
“Fetlock”: N. S. Wales Governor’s
“speech” promised a bill to provide for the
registration of architects, but it didn’t say
anything about registering vets., although
the subject has been talked about ever since
Cap’ii Cook landed. At present anyone may
call himself a vet. and practise as such;
and naturally the costly veterinary college
at Sydney Uni. is almost studentless.
Brainy youngsters won’t risk time and cash
learning a profession which lias to meet
that sort of brassy competition.
“Croson”; I have no objection to brown
sugar, which is the only sort obtainable in
Melbourne at present. As a boy I got no-
thing else but brown, except when I got
maple sugar. But I would like to know,
seeing that the refiners save the cost of
one or two processes, who is pocketing the
extra profit. The grocer charges me the
same old 31d. a lb. that he did for white,
and then seems to think lie is doing me a
favor in letting me have 41b. at once. And
he wears such an immaculate countenance
that I daren’t suspect him of pocketing the
difference.
The will of the late Miss Jane Forster
(a daughter of William Forster, one-time
Premier of N. S. Wales and Agent-General
in London, and a grand-daugliter of Gregory
Blaxland, the explorer) has been proved at
156,275. Over £36,000 of this is money in
the hands of the trustees of Eliza Forster,
deceased. Gregory Blaxland’s widow was
Eliza, a daughter of John Spurden ; and the
mother of Miss Jane Forster was Elizabeth,
the eldest child of Gregory Blaxland, who
married Dr. Forster (50th Regt.) and lived
at Brush Farm.
Bloomfield Rees, much-travelled member
of the Vic. Uppah House, is going to make
a bid for the Senate as a Farmers’ Union
candidate. This Welshman learned chemis-
try in druggists’ shops in England and Paris
and then came to Victoria to make up mix-
tures according to medical specifications.
Tiring of a job in which there are small
profits lie took to wheat-growing and share-
farming. Long before the wheat pool was
formed he suggested the issue of scrip for
wheat delivered to a trust, but the idea was
pooh-poohed by the people who afterwards
embodied the idea in the scheme of 1915.
Increased production is the only trust-
worthy weapon against high prices. But
Australia will not get production on a big
till it has an effective tariff. With a
tariff the local factories would start to pour
goods on to the home market; and prices,
which are sustained as much by short sup-
plies and high cost of transport as by the
villainy of local traders, would fall. The
tariff is a matter, too. that could be under-
taken without any prejudice to the National
Legislature’s action against the criminal
variety of profiteer—when, if ever, it gets
the right to take such action.
“T. 0.1.”; 11. H. Newton, Clerk of the
Vic. Assembly and a probable successor to
the “magnificent McCall” as Clerk of the
Council, is the son of an Irish barrister
admitted to the Vic Bar in 1854. He estab-
lished a large County Court practice, his
only serious competitor being S. H. Bindon,
also of the Irish Bar. Bindon and Newton
entered politics, and neither gained by it,
although Newton was P.M.G. in the Nichol-
son Ministry. His son. the present Clerk
of the Assembly, joined the Law Depart-
ment 39 years ago, and four years after-
wards was transferred to the staff of Parlia-
ment. His eldest son, H. A. S. Newton, had
a distinguished medical career at Melb. Uni.
Bailey, Labor M.L.A. for Port Fairy,
where the spuds and butter grow, wants
to have a Vic. State Produce Agency estab-
lished and all other agents registered. But
as the Farmers’ Union is practically un-
represented in the Leg. Council, while Labor
has only five members there, the private
agents will probably remain unmolested,
with the less scrupulous of them continuing
to nip a bit out of each consignment, repack
apple-boxes, and otherwise pinch an extra
penny where they can. The co-operative
system offers every agriculturist a broad way
out of the clutches of the pirates. Yet there
are plenty of grouching farmers who don’t
seem to know that such societies exist, or
if they do know, are willing to be seduced
from them for less than five shillings.
Will Lawson goes exploring : —•
Why is the man-hole of a boiler made oval instead
of round? A fireman has just told me. To make it
clear, he traced diagrams with his Anger on the glass
door of the letter-rack in the hotel hall. Then to
further simplify matters he took the bowl of my
pipe, leaving the stem between my teeth. “See
that circle,” he said, indicating the top of the
bowl. “Well, that’s got a equal di’meter and a equal
c’cumf’rence —it’s a round hole, ain’t it? Now,
s'posin’ tha’s in a boiler, how are v’goin’ to put a
bigger di’meter and c’cumf’rence inside that hole so’s
to resist steam pressure in a scientiAc way? Can’t
be done, so they make ’em oval. Oval, y’get room to
put a larger c’cumf’rence inside, and you tighten up
the dogs at th’ ends an’ spit on it, and hell ’self
couldn't blow it out.” I never thought of it before,
but I wonder why boiler man-holes are oval and not
round?


iß'
a*
THE LIGHT I'OCR
»*»
•S
**
it
l»»
!lin)»u^
Hfc
in
THE .BIG SIX
in design
Thoroughly modern
right
SfieSTTJDEBAKER is a
perfecSlly-balanced car
/"CONSIDER what “Balance” is! And consider
Y_> then how important is balance. You will
learn from your considerations just how
much is claimed for the Studebaker when it is
called “a perfectly-balanced car.”
“Balance,” says the Dictionary, “is a just propor-
tion.” Throughout the Studebaker Car such a
just proportion exists. A just proportion of weight
—and no more—commensurate with the need
of strength of frame. A just proportion in the
distribution of weight over the whole chassis so
that the full benefit of the springing is secured;
that the comfort of the occupants is guarded; that
absence of strain makes for the endurance of the
car.
The Studebaker Engine is the most powerful in
the world in ratio to its weight and fuel-consump-
tion. This is the result of perfect balance; the
skilful application of scientific and engineering
truths.
A perfectly-balanced car —the Series 1 9 Stude-
baker. A car of elegance and strength well within
the reach of your means.
You can best test the justice of these claims by a
visit to our showrooms. It will be our pleasure to
demonstrate fully the merits of the Studebaker
Car; to arrange for a physical test of the comfort,
security and unfaltering reliability of this fine
example of automobile construction. We cordi-
ally request that you will take advantage of this
invitation to call.
♦4
♦4
•••
*1
%%ss
THE LIGHT SIX
kSTUDEBAKILR
Special Features
The famous Silent L-Head Engine;
the newly-designed Gear Box,
swung on a Sub-Chassis amidships;
the Double Thermoid Coupling
Forward; the Hotchkiss Drive; the
Silent Spiral Bevel Differential;
Scientific Weight Distribution and
Spring Suspension; Magneto
Ignition; Leather-trimmed Khaki
Hoods; Goodyear Tyres through-
out, and Complete Equipment.
THE STUDEBAKER CORPORATION OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
Head Office for Australia: 177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. South Australian Branch: 1 Currie: Street, Adelaide.
Turner Bros., 398 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Armstrong C. & M. Agency, Hay Street, Perth.
C. C. & M. A. Ltd., Adelaide- Street, Brisbane.
New Zealand: Adams Limited,
Christchurch,
Palmerston North,
Timaru,
Wanganui.


GUIIU HEALS
BABYIPIPLES
All Over Face, Head and Neck,
Was in Terrible State. Skin
Red and Inflamed.
“When my baby was eighteen
months old small festered pimples
came out all over his face,
head and neck and he was
in a terrible state. The skin
also became red and in-
flamed and the irritation
used to cause him to scratch
which prevented sleeping.
“I sent for a sample of
Cuticura and in a few days they afforded
relief so I bought some more and one
tin of Ointment and one cake of Soap
healed him.” (Signed) Mrs. Phelps,
Weston, N. S. W., November 6,1917.
Cuticura Soap cleanses, purifies and
beautifies, and Cuticura Ointment
softens, soothes and heals.
Soap to cleanse and Ointment to heal.
"‘R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
Sold by dealers throughout the world.
V
4
r You need not
shake the bottle
HP
S4UCZ
is the same all through
—the last drop is
as delicious as
the first.
>p is
INDISPENSABLE
to the traveller, housewife and school
children. TO MARK ALL LINEN with
mm
SOKES
NAMES
ensures individuality and protects
against loss or exchange. Any name
is woven into a Fine Cambric Tape
in Fast Color. Easilv sewn on.
Prices sl2 rioz. 4/6, 6 doz. 3/3, 3 doz. 2/3.
Obtainable from all Best Drapers.
.Made in Australia by
J. & J. Cash Pty., Ltd.,
85 C’lbitt Street, Richmond, VIC.
Write for Style Hook.
BURNS AIR
One‘BEST’Light
Gives more Light than
Six Electric Lights, or Ten
Kerosene Lamps or One
Hundred Candles.
Burns 90# Air 10# Gas
A beautiful, pure white, steady,
safe light. NoWlek! No Urease!
No Smoke! No Odor! llang nr Set
it anywhere. Over 100 Styles.
These Lamps being Portable
they require no fitting.
Let us post you a
Best Light
Wall Lamp
complete, which gives 100-candle power light
for 42/6 Post Free
Send for Catalogue No. 821, which also
contains Hollow Wire System of Lighting
BRANDT BROS. LTD.
Air-Gas Engineers
236 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
r^gfggg
,4
IS
a
i
3?
1
I
WA
a?
?K
¥77
m
m
m
&
mm.
mt.iu
iKZ%Z?
m
m
m
I ! H
rM
IBs
CROUCH
JTEEL
We Can Make Immediate Shipment
from the East Coast, and
from the West Coast,
either from our own warehouses
at Staten Island, New York, or
from our branch house in San
Francisco.
Write for our monthly maga-
zine,
and our Stockbook SB4, giving
a list of quantities on hand.
Cable Address:
“Ardeencee,” New York.
Codes used: ABC sth Edition.
Sk Western Union, Lieber's, and
Bentley’s.
x
gj®|
Rownson, Drew & Clydesdale Ino
k 68 William St., New York, U.S.A
E-YALE"
The Watchdog of Five
Million Homes
As the super-Dreadnought is
the watchdog of the seven seas,
so is the
YALE Cylinder Night Latch
the watchdog of five million
homes—protector against unwel-
come invader, pilferer and thief.
The Yale cylinder night latch is a
Specialist. It dots ,spne thing well.
It keeps the door locked when you
want it locked. The cunning ingenu-
ity of the lockpicker cannot open the
Yale cylinder night latch—no one can,
if he hasn’t the right key.
And they are made to fit any door—;
in many sizes and styles, and at vary-'
ing prices.
Equally as the Yale Cylinder night
latch is guaranteed, so are all Yale
products: Yale Padlocks, Yale Door
Closers, Yale Builders’ Hardware, Yale
Bank Locks, and Yale Chain Blocks.
Look for the trade-mark ''Yale” before
you buy. You are assured the utmost
security in Yale Products.
Buy them from any good dealer
The YALE & TOWNE
MFG. CO.
V Established 1868
NEW YORK
U.S. A.
®LD TRIPLEX blocks
Special features
X —Hoists twice as fast as a screw-geared block.
2 Continuous Hand Chain Guide, permitting rapid lowering.
3 Bated on long ton(224olb.)and tested to 50% overload(336olb.).
4 Can be fitted to any length of lift.
5 Spare parts available.
6 Hand and Electric Blocks available from stock.
FRANK R. PERROT, Sole Australian Agent
334 Kent Street, Sydney; 883 Hay Street, Perth.
L. BANNISTER, 39 Queen Street, Melbourne.
EVANS, DEAIvIN & CO., 121 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
OUR SICK AND WOUNDED
’ BOYS. —When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Red Cross Book
Depot, Wynvard Street, Sydney.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
“Stung”: How these Australian manufac-
turers do assist Australian industry. 1
bought to-dav a bottle of Australian-made
“tabloids.” The labels had been printed m
England, and the bottle made in Japan.
Lord knows where the screw-top and cotton-
wool filling came from.
An Australian invention is being given a
run in the Commonwealth steamer Dromana,
built at Williamstown (Vic.) to trade to
Nauru and Ocean Island for phosphates.
This is the Michell patent thrust-bearings,
invented some years ago, and hawked about
with little success. The British Navy, how-
ever, took it up during the war; now it has
come back, and having a British reputation
is welcomed with both hands.
By the casting vote of Speaker Mackey
Outtrim got the second reading of his
Optional Vaccination Bill through the A ic.
Assembly. The law as it stands is worse
than a farce —anybody with 40s. to spare
can buy exemption from it. Nevertheless
Outtrim will have to fight hard to get his
amendment through committee. The Upper
House threw out a similar bill before, but
the 'personnel of that Chamber has changed
since then.
Says the Sydney Telegraph, holding the
usual brief for the Big City:—
The best locality for manufacturing is the metropolis.
It is. Let us therefore divide Australia into
20 States so that each first-rate port may
be the outlet for its own district, and thus
we will have four times as many metropo-
lises, each one of them the best locality for
manufacturing. The idea being that manu-
factures grow in metropolises, let us metropo-
lise more. The experiments of setting up
Melbourne and Adelaide and Brisbane to
metrop. for themselves have certainly been
encouraging.
“Umntu”: Beelie-de-mer and not sandal-
wood (B. 31/7/T9) was probably the first
export industry of this country. Sandal-
wood did not find a market until the arrival
of the European; beche-de-mer, or trepang,
was traded to Asia by Malays from the
Eastern Archipelago, in all probability,
years before the first European sailed in
Australian waters. At least, J. L. Parsons,
one-time viceroy of the Northern Territory,
thought so and put his opinion in an official
report.
“Seebee”: The Government which sets
out to fix the prices .of imported goods in
order to defeat the profiteer will strike some
nice problems. Take cellular cotton singlets,
for instance. These have gone up since the
war started from about 3s. to about 12s. Cd.
Australia was pretty heavily stocked to start
with; and that stock or what was left of it
has been I’epeatcdly advanced in price by
order of the manufacturers, who have sold
on the basis that they shall have the right
to fix the selling-price.
“Kello”: What has become of the story
of the secret expedition of English chemists
into Switzerland, and the discovery of the
formula? of some hundreds of aniline dyes?
A Sydney business man who was in Switzer-
land subsequent to the circulation of the
yarn in the English newspapers got into con-
versation with a German dye expert there,
and ascertained that the latter’s knowledge
embraced one shade of color only, and fur-
ther learned that no dye specialist was en-
trusted with more than one formula. The
Hun laughed at the suggestion that the Eng-
lish were in possession of the whole box o’
tricks.
“T. 0.1.”: The queerest funeral I know
of was accorded to the remains of an old-
time N. S. Wales politician, lawyer, tra-
veller and manufacturer, Arthur Todd
Holroyd, who was a Minister of the Crown
in N. S. Wales and wound up as Master
in Equity. He established a large factory
outside Parramatta for the manufacture of
drain-pipes, bricks and similar products.
In his will he ordered that his funeral
should be as simple as possible. The hearse
was to be one of his brick-drays, drawn by
a favorite horse (named). The driver was
to be one of the workmen (also named), and
he was to be in his shirt sleeves. And so
it was carried out.
“E.D.” : A Melbourne artist we all know
had a commission for a portrait of a politi-
cal celebrity now dead. The big man was
agreeable to give sittings, but it was
presently found that he could not keep
awake for more than a few minutes at a
time, and the painter no sooner got going
than his subject began to nod and sag.
Brush had compunction about rudely
awakening so tremendous a personage, and
the portrait was getting on badly when the
painter got an idea. He had an uncommon
specimen of our Australian fauna, which
had served as a model for part of a big
Cleopatra picture. The specimen was kept
in a cage made by nailing slats across one
side of a kerosene case. The cage was
brought into the studio, and placed well in
view of the eminent sitter. “What is that?”
piped the subject from his pedestal—“why,
the thing’s alive!” “Yes,” Brush replied,
“very much alive.” “But can’t it escape
from that cage?” “Well, yes, he has got out
once or twice, but he won’t hurt —he’s a pet.”
The sitter did not go to sleep again, but
there is a curious strained look in the eyes
of the portrait. The object in the dubious
cage was a big brown snake!
“Fovant” : It would be interesting to know
the name of the Digger who was one of two
admitted to Dublin Castle Hospital during
Red Week, 2£ years ago. He appeared on
the first day of the outbreak with sundry
pieces of shell in his eye. Next day the
rebellion warmed up, the Castle Hospital
itself getting plenty of attention. One of the
Y.A.D.’s observes: “We could not keep the
Aussie in bed. We finally had to let him go,
although his eye, which was badly inflamed,
must have been causing him great pain.” The
lady records his appearance a couple of days
later, dead-beat, looking for a bite. He had
then had nothing to eat for 24 hours.. But
they couldn’t hold him even then ! He was
finally admitted on the day before the sur-
render, with a hole in his thigh, “looking
very ill.” The chronicler expatiates on the
daring stunt in which he collected his second
smack, but unfortunately then lets him fade
out of her narrative.


The Home of a Huge
Skin Business.
■
*
k
. v 5
m
5*
v»*
%
id&
Over a Quarter of a Million Rabbit Skins
6500 Fox Skins, also Kangaroo, Wallaby, Goat and other skins on view at Winchcombe, Carson’s Sydney Stores—A Record Week’s Offering.
The photograph shows the skins classed and ready for inspection by buyers preparatory to sale by auction.
The skins were forwarded by trappers, etc., for sale on their account.
Winchcombe, Carson Ltd.
are commission salesmen, and salesmen only. Their one aim is to secure highest possible prices for customers’ consignments.
Consign Skins, etc.: Winchcombe, Carson Ltd., Sydney.
A
ff
o'
it
B
U
m
X
A
r< t
&
*
>i
rs: •-
.
V.
AH genuine Tjota.l
Shirting is name-stamped
on selvedge. Buy none
without
When choosing material for
those frocks that are going to
be continually in the wash,
profit by the sound, dependable
qualities of Tootal Shirting.
SHIRTING
women
OTHER TOOTAL GUARANTEED FABRICS
Each carries name on selvedge
TOBRALCQ (Regd.): The Cotton Wash Dress Fabric in world wide
use. 27/28 inches wide. Self-white and indelible colors.
4o per yard.
TARANTULLE (Regd.) : The quality Cotton Fabric for Home-sewn
Lingerie and baby Wear. 40 inches wide, in three weights:—
Standard 2/3, Fine 2/6, Superfine 2/9 per yard.
TOOTAL. PIQUE —Double width, 43/44 inches wide. Superior, soft
*P e c>ally strengthened between ribs- White and
indelible colors, 5/6 per yard,
NAMRIT— The Indelible Voile, Double width, 40 inches wide
White and indelible colors, 3/6 per yard.
XPOIAL CLOTH —The Guaranteed Velvet Fabric, Plain and cord.
2/ inches wide. also
PYRAMID HANDKERCHIEFS (Regd.) for Men. Correct self-white
and exclusive color-border designs. Pyramid label on each.
1/4* each.
LISSUE HANDKERCHIEFS (Regd.) for Ladies. Exquisite self-white
and indelible color border designs. Lissue label on each.
• /- each.
yHE popular British fabric is smart as it is service-
able. The wash-tub cannot affect its soundness
—nothing can take the color out of its woven-in
stripes. Like all the other Tootal Guaranteed Fabrics,
Tootal Shirting is woven from the finest cotton the
world produces. The harder the wear the greater
your satisfaction with it
32 inches wide, Woven Color Stripes-guaran- > !
teed indelible. Name always on selvedge. f -
TO BE HAD OF ALL STOR E S '
TOOTAL BROADHURST LEE COMPANY LTD., MANCHESTER, ENGLAND '
ALL COMMUNICATIONS TO G.P.O. BOX 1033 MELBOURNE


m
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Necklet,
set Pearls and Aquamarines,
£2/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Links, daintilv engraved,
17/6.
Isct. Gold, 35/-
A. Saunuers’ pure
double-cut Dia-
mond Ring, 18et.
Gold, £B/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure
Diamond Boat-
shape, Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £5.
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Dia-
mond Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £4/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure
Diamond Cluster
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£5.
Jewellery Designs.
A. Saunders’ pure
Diamond Crossover
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£3/15/-
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Dia-
mond Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £2/10/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£5/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure
Diamond Half-hoop
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£5/10/-
m
A. Saunders’ 9et. Gold Necklet,
set Aquamarines or Red Stones,
£2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Returned Sol-
dier’s Presentation Medal, 9ct.
Gold, 80/-; heavier, 35/-
40/-, 50/-; 15ct.-, £3,
£3/10/-, £4/10/-, £5,
..<*£/10/-
■
m
■
as
«1 I H
A. Saunders’ Hunting Lever, extra-quality
movement, £2/10/-. Solid Silver, £3,
£3/10/-, £4/10/-, £5, £6, £7/10/-
Gold-filled Elgin or Waltham, 10 years’ case,
£3/5/-; 20 years’, £4/10/-; 25 years’,
£5/5/-; extra-jewelled, £6/6/-,
£7/10/-, Guaranteed.
wnLv
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Brooch, set Pearls and
Bed Stones, 12/6.
a. Saunders’ Lady’s Silver
Hunting Keyless Lever, full
jewelled compensation balance,
£3, £3/10/-, £4/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Links, daintily engraved,
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold Brooch, set Aqua-
marines, 35/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Brooch, set Pearls,
A. Saunders’
Scarf Pin, set
Pearls and Gar-
nets, 9ct. Gold,
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Nellie Stewart Secret Snap and
Joint Bracelet, £2/10/-; lighter, £2, 30/-; heavier,
£3, £3/10/-. Isct. Gold, £3/10/-, £4/10/-;
heavier, £5, £5/10/-; lighter, £3.
A. Saunders’
Scarf Pin, set
Pearls, 9ct. Gold,
8/6,
15ct., 15/-
A. Saunders’ Aquamarine Bar Brooch, 15ct.
Gold, £2.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Brooch, set Pearls and
Red Stones, 15/-
\SP
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold ExpaOdifg Wristlet Watch,
full-jewelled Lever movement, . J £7/10/-.
Others from £4/10/- to £l5. Guaranteed.
Send for Illustrated Price List Free. We Post All Orders Free.
A. SAUNDERS,
JEWELLER,
805=815 George Street, Sydney.
Opposite Railway Station.
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s open-face Lever, 25/-, 30/
Silver, £2, £2/10/-. Gold-filled, £3, £3/10/
Solid Gold, £4/10/-, £5, £6. Guaranteed.
MORPHY’S PILE PELS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands, of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding files, some
after suffering over 40 years, also, a wonderful
Cure for Rheumatism,
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, "Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/3 per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l/2/-. Postage Eree.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Esfcab. 1891.
For our sick and wounded
BOYS. —When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Red Cross Book
Depot, Wynyard Street. Sydney.
A SEASONED SHAVER.
“Many’s the Razor I have tried, but there's none
like the ‘Plum.’ ” So spoke a seasoned shaver, and
his experience is echoed by thousands of others.
Join the big crowd who swear by
THR “PLUM” RAZOR.
price: 10/6—post free.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
The above makes a handsome present.
“Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/2 Tube, post free.
All the above Post Free. Send for our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
*
\
Tried and Trusted—
The “PLUM”
Razor.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builder s’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
684 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the worH.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
BOOKS! BOOKS! BOOKS! FOR EVERYBODY!
The Book ol Nature
A PULL AND EXPLICIT EXPLANATION
OP ALL THAT CAN UK OUGHT TO BE
KNOW BYi
MAN and WOMAN,
INTENDED ESPEQIAXLY FOK
THE MARRIED* OR THOSE IN-
TENDING TO MARRY.
By L, M. BTfltN, M.D.
A PRA€'«eAFj COMPLETE
FAMILY DOCTOR.
No such, CQHU?lete Panorama of the Mysteries
of Huri)fiJ). K.epiitiduey .on. has ever before been
giver), tp. the world.
PBj BERN’S ILLUSTRATED EDITION
(L 917 ISSUE); 1% THE ONLY GENUINE
BOOK. ASK F<7 R IT, AND TAKE NO
OTHER. pKICK .
SHILLINGS & SIXPENCE.
POST FREE.
•*' iivß AN® '.Learn, 2/-. How to Geß’ Rich,
Ij/6; posted,, Dr. Lamartine's (‘Silent Friend,
11/6. Nm>_ Tjonnelly's Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, 1/6. Haw to
Dance, l/, 6 posted. How to Wrestle, 1/6.
Moll F/.anders (a rare book fcy Defoe), 1/3
posted. Thurston's Card Tricks, 1/3. All
Zola's,- - including Nana, 2/6 each posted.
Ejhica'i’ing the Hors 4 1/3. Ventriloquism
Easy, 1/3. Up-to-date Comic Reciter,
I/#/ posted./ How to Strengthen the
Me/iory, 1/3. Bell's , Standar \f, Elocutionist,
latest edition, 6/6 posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, 1/3, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(send for list). Tea Cup Fortune Telling, 1/3.
How to Make Your Will, 1/3. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 2/3. The Australian Fruit
Gardener, 1/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/6. Par-
lor Tricks and Games, 1/6. Fortune-Telling
by Cards, 1/9. Life (a book for Men and Women
of To-day), 2/-. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales,
1/9. Tricks & Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/6.
Beauty’s Secrets, 1/6 post free. Night of Temp-
tation, 2/-. How to Make Love, 1/3 post free.
Fowler’s Science of Life, 12/6. Australian
Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 4/-.
Mahomet’s Fortune-Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price 1/-, posted 1/3.
How to Become Quick at Figures, 1/3. Will
Power (Personal Magnetism), posted 1/-. San-
dow’s Book of Strength posted, 4/-. Car-
lisle’s Freemasonry, 6/3 posted. Daughters
of Ismael, 2/6. History of the Rod Flagella-
tions and the Flagellants (scarce), 15/-.
Practical Gas and Oil Engine Handbook, 5/6.
Motor Mechanics, 3/9. Motor Manual
(latest), 3/6. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 1/-
and 2/3. God and My Neighbor, 9d. How
to Read Faces, 2/-. Adventures of a Sydney
Barmaid, 1/-. Colonial Horse Doctor, 2/-.
French Polishing and Staining, 2/3. Photog-
raphy Self-taught, 1/6. How to Make
Sweets, Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks
with Coins, 1/3 posted. House Painting and
Papering, 2/3. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
12/6. Australian Pastrycooks’ Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS,- FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, ty6 posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/6. How to Read Faces
and Heads, 2/-. Soldering, Brazing, etc.,
2/3 posted. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/9. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; 1/3 posted.
Camille, i/6 posted. Piano Tuning And Repair-
ing, 2/3. Modern Etiquette, 1/3. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), 1/6. How
to Mesmerise, 2/-. Man from Snowy River,
4/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/3 posted. Parlor
Magic, 1/3 posted. The White Slave Traffic,
1/3. Every Man His Own Carpenter, 1/6.
Ready Reckoner and ■ Lightning Calculator,
1/1. Secret History of the Court of Eng-
land, 2/-. Letter-Writer Up-to-date, 1/6
posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, 1/6 posted. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-; 1/2
posted. Electricity Made Simple (new), 6/-.
The Confectioner’s Handbook, 1/6. Sexual
Knowledge for Everybody (with plates), 6/6
posted. How to Shine in Society, 1/6.
Cabinetmakers’ Handybook, 2/-. Complete
Bookkeeping, 2/6. Life of Deeming, illus-
trated, 1/1. How McDougall Topped the
Score, and Other Verses, 1/3. French
Self • Taught, 1/3. Wannan’s Engine-
driver’s Guide, 6/- posted. -Decameron of Boc-
caccio, 4/6 each, posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 2/- posted. Women’s Secrets, 1/-
posted. Gay Life in Melbourne, 1/- posted.
Secrets of Beauty. Health and Long Life
(50,000 sold), 2/- posted. A Bed of Roses, 4/6.
All These Prices Post Paid.
Established 30 Years.
DON’T BE FOOLED
INTO PA YING MORE.
New Thicks with Cards, 1/6. Sappho, genu-
ine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 posted. Dr.
Milford’s Midwife's Handbook, 92 practical
Send stamp for my
BIG ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
illustrations, 3/-. Aristotle, 5/-. Adam Lind-
say Gordon's Poems, 1/9. Practical Palm-
istry, 2/-. Guide to Auctioneering, 3/6.
Lovers’ Letter-writer, 1/6. All About Incu-
bators, 2/3. Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed,
Key to All Degrees, New Edition, 1/9 posted.
Vest-pocket Dictionary, 1/6 posted. Tokology,
10/6 posted. Ingersoll’s Works, 1/3, 2/-. How
to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 2/- posted.
Ciievasse’s Advice to a Wife, 3/9 posted. Bread
and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-boilers’ Assist-
ant, 2/-. The Wife’s Handbook, 1/3 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, 1/- posted. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness
and its Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster’s Large
Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus.,
leather bound, my price, 20s. post paid. (Why
pav 3 and 4 guineas?). Bootmaking and Repair-
ing 2/3 Dynamos and Electric Motors. 2/3.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete
Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 12/6 posted.
The Secrets op Clairvoyance, 1/3 posted.
Henry Lawson’s Humorous Verses. 1/3. The
Age of Reason, by Paine, 1/3 posted. Rasputin,
the Monk of Evil 2/9. One Day, 1/3 posted. The
Wizard’s Manual, 1/3. Speeches from the
Dock 2/-. Life’s Shop Window, 2/-. Three
Week’s, 2/- posted. The Escaped Nun, 2./-. Six
Women (bv Victoria Cross), 2/-. The Black
Prophet, 5/3. Tom Jones (Fielding), 3/-. Aus-
tralian Miners and Prospectors’ Guide, 2/-.
Adventures of John Johns, 2/6.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR
ROBERT
BEAR, the big book store, 67 g 69 Market Street, Sydney miv.
im~BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.


Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director HUGH D. McINTOSH.
“P IVOli THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday, at 2.30.
THE OFFICERS’ MESS.
The Latest and Greatest Musical Play.
Plans at Nicholson’s and the Tivoli.
“IVOLI
THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH D. McINTOSH presents
LONDON’S LATEST LILTING TRIUMPH,
THE LADS OF THE VILLAGE.
Prices as usual.
H
K It M A .1 E S T V ’ S. S Y I) N E Y
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
A SEASON OF GRAND OPERA.
NEXT WEEK’S PROGRAMME.
To-night (Thursday), IL TROVATORE. Friday,
MADAM BUTTERFLY. Saturday, CARMEN. Monday,
MADAM BUTTERFLY. Tuesday, CARMEN. Wednes-
day Matinee, FAUST. Wednesday Evening, MADAM
BUTTERFLY.
It 1 T E It 1 O N T II E A T It IS, S Y DNRt.
’ Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MatinOes Wednesday and Saturday at 2.
RETURN OF THE
NEW ENGLISH MUSICAL COMEDY CO.
GOING UP.
Plan at Paling's. Prices as usual.
PAI, A C E TIIEAT It E, SVI>N E Y.
NIGHTLY AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
J. & N. TAIT present
EMELIE POLINI
EYES OF YOUTH.
■TIIE GREAT DRAMATIC NOVELTY.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
II E A T It E ItOVA 1., SYDNEY.
Lessee I. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
Direction KATE lIOWARDE.
EVERY NIGIIT AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AT 2.
THE WHIRLWIND SUCCESS.
KATE IIOWARDE’S Original All-Australian Comedy-
Drama,
’POSSUM PADDOCK.
RECORD NOTICES FROM THE SYDNEY PRESS:
The Sunday Times said: “The crowded house
laughed and laughed, scarcely being able to breathe
before it had to laugh again.”
Interpreted by a Brilliant Cast of
18 AUSTRALIAN PLAYERS 18
headed by
FRED MACDONALD,
The Inimitable Dave of “On Our Selection.”
Popular Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-.
u
NI O N
I V T U It 12 T II IS A T It E S
THE PICK OF THE WORLD'S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYCEUM,
STRAND, GLOBE, LYRIC, EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC, GRAND, KING’S CROSS,
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
HEIi MAJESTY’S TIII2 A Tit 12, MIS I,ItO UUN IS.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the Exquisite
Musical Play,
MAYTIME.
Plan ht Allan’s. Prices as usual.
’ll IS A T It IS It O Y A 1,. MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the Famous Play
of Sentiment, Pathos and Humor,
DIGHTNIN’.
Plan at Allan’s.
Prices as usual.
K
INC’S THEATRE. M IS I, B O U It N E.
Lessees: BAILEY * GRANT.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, SEPTEMBER 13.
J. & N. TAIT present the Delightful Comedy,
OLD LADY 31.
Prices as usual.
Plan at Allan’s.
MELBOURNE.
HOYT’S THEATRES,
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
TUTS WEEK’S FEATURES:
ENID BENNETT in
HAPPY THOUGH MARRIED.
PAULINE FREDERICK in
DAUGHTER OF OLD SOUTH.
Prices as usual.
M
A.IESTIC THEATRE, .MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
ANITA STEWART
in
MARY REGAN.
MATINEES DAILY AT 2.30. NIGHTS AT 8.
B
RITANNIA THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
TIIE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
M
ELBA
THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITA GRAPH, PATHE,
WORLD and SELZNICK.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Cantunr*.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and JS’avy men.
; ■ Si
Eustace J 586 CURES Write for Boo;
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FAILING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHI
S» GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London. England
Insist on Singleton’s’'—•refuse all substitutes.
Missing Friends.
Re William Purves, tlec’d.
r'EORGE PURVES, son of the late William and
'~- 3r Ann Purves. of No. 260 Lennox Street, Rich-
mond, Victoria, last heard of working for Mr.
Synott, Maeedon, Victoria, please communicate 'Mtn
;lie undersigned. Or any person knowing his wheie-
ibouts or particulars of his death please communi-
with
THE EQUITY TRUSTEES COMPANY LIMITED,
85 Queen Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
6th August, 1919.
IF this meets the eye of FREDERICK
EDWARD KAPP will he communicate
with his sister at Endosia, Mandalay-Lashio
Road, Ma.vmys, Burma, at once.
Situation Wanted.
171 XPERIENCED Australian Mining
i i Prospector, Lode and Alluvial Prac-
;ice, returning from F.M.S., open engage-
nent October, in charge or Assistant to good
Mining-engineer; age 32 years, single, in
good health. Reliable, c/o Sydney Bulletin,
Sydney.
Public Notices.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Although over £750,000 was paid dur-
ing 1918 in War Claims alone, the
Cash Bonus Distributed for 1918
exceeded.. .. .. .. .. £1,000,000
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. .. £1,700,000
Accumulated Funds exceed .. .. £39,000,000
Annual Income over .. .. .. £5,500,000
The Society Transacts F.very Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
Y
Easy to Keep
Hair Trimmed
Distance from a barber’s need not matter when
you have a pood pair of hair-clippers. The hair-
clippers illustrated are made by one of the best
known firms in U.S.A., and are thoroughly reli-
able. Solidly made of steel and with extra combs
to slide over end, enabling hair to be cut in
different lengths. Simple to use. Post free..
12/6
Manufacturers ’ Selling Agency
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell 8 Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office-
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
Horlick’s Malted Milk contains
all requisite forms of nourish*
ment. That is what makes
Horlick’s so rich so delicious.
If you have not yet tried Hor-
lick’s, there is a great treat in
store for you.
HORUCK’S
.MALTED MILK
**T3. »*»*-
4
Jha
No Shortage. Ample Supplies.
HEALTH
QtJ.Coflis Broking's
CWorodyne
The Original and Only Genuine.
UNVARYING
QUALITY.
ABBEY SHOES
give you the utmost satisfaction com-
bined with perfect fit; correct style to-
gether with comfort and service.
The boot illustrated is a smart, made-to-
order style in Tan Willow Calf.
Price 35/- & 45/-
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and liunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
CAPILLARINE
for
Quick
Results.
A splendid growth of Hair can be produced
on the upper lip by the aid of CAPIL-
LARINE. Make up your mind to grow the
Moustache, and start using CAPILLARINE
right away. A preparation of unfailing
merit.
PRICE 10/6 JAR —POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEIM,
654 Qeorge Street, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
l\amt
Address
Queensland Government
Uteiltfeace &ad Tourist Bureau
BRISBANE
sat
QUEENSLAND'
TM E KEY TO
PROSPERITY.]
QUEENSLAND
opens the door to
prosperity lor those
requiring land _
Particulars ol the
millions ol acres ol
Crown Land
now available will be
sent you al once,
also Booklets on Ihe
Slate's resources—
FREE
THE BEST MEDICINE FOB
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in the Cough of HKONCHITIS anti
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery
01 all Chemists. Prices in England, IJS, Sl-, 51
Made in England.
Legal Notices.
D£ JOHN DALEY, late of Wharparilla, in Victoria,
*■ farmer, deceased, James Daley, son of the deceased,
is notified that he is entitled to a share in the above
estate provided he claims same before the 22nd day
of September, 1919, failing which he will forfeit
all interest therein.
F. N. H. ATKYNS, of Millewa Chambers, High
Street, Echuca, Victoria, Proctor for William John
King, of Carlton, Bank Manager, Sole Executor of
the Will.
'■PO the NEPHEWS and NIECES of THOMAS
TOTON JACKSON Deceased Pursuant to an
Order of the Chancery Division of the High Court
of Justice England dated 28th February 1919 made
re Thomas Toton Jackson (deceased) Rist and
Another v. Grenside and Others 1916 J 855 The fol-
lowing inquiries were directed.
1. An inquiry what nephews and nieces there were
of the testator who survived the said Susan Wil-
, liams or who either before or after the testator’s
death predeceased the said Susan Williams leaving
any and what children living at the death of the
said Susan Williams.
2. An inquiry whether such nephews and nieces
as survived the said Susan Williams and such chil-
dren of deceased nephews and nieces as were living
at her death are living or dead and whether such
of the said nephews and nieces and children as are
living have respectively attained the age of twenty-
one years or if females have married and whether
such nephews and nieces and children as are dead
respectively lived to attain the age of twenty-one
years or if females married and who are the legal
personal representatives of any such r.ephews or
nieces or children as have died after having attained
the age of twenty-one years or if females after
marriage.
3. An inquiry whether any and which of the tes-
tator’s nephews and nieces who survived the said
Susan Williams or if the children living at the
death of the said Susan Williams of deceased
nephews and nieces have in any way and how
assigned charged or incumbered their respective
shares in the testator’s residuary estate and if so
in whom the said shares are now vested under or
by virtue of such assignments or any transfers
thereof and what is .due and to whom in respect of
such charges or incumbrances.
4. An inquiry what nephews and nieces there were
of the testator who survived the testator’s brother
Edward Jackson mentioned in the said will or who
either before or after the testator's death pre-
deceased the said Edward Jackson leaving any and
what children living at the death of the said
Edward Jackson.
6. An inquiry whether such nephews and nieces as
survived the said Edward Jackson and such children
of deceased nephews and nieces as were living at his
death are living or dead and whether such of the
said nephews and nieces and children as are living
have respectively attained the age of twenty-one
years or if females have married and whether such
of the said nephews and nieces and children as are
dead respectively lived to attain the age of twenty-
one years or if females married and who are the
legal personal representatives of any such nephews
or nieces or children as have died after having
attained the age of twenty-one years or after
marriage if females.
6. An inquiry whether any and which of the
testator’s nephews and nieces who survived the said
Edward Jackson or of the children living at the
death of the said Edward Jackson of deceased
nephews and nieces have in any way and how
assigned charged or incumbered their respective
shares in the sum of nine thousand pounds new two
pounds fifteen shillings per cent, stock specifically
bequeathed by the said will and if so in whom the
said shares are now vested under or by virtue of
such assignments or any transfers thereof and what
is due and to w'hom in respect of such charges or
incumbrances.
Now all persons claiming to be interested under
the said inquiries are by themselves or their solici-
tors to come in and prove their claims at the
Chambers of Mr. Justice Eve and Mr. Justice Peter-
son at the Royal Courts of Justice Strand London
and to enter their names and the particulars of
their claims on or before the 30th day of November
1919 in a book kept for that purpose in Room 693
at the said Courts or in default thereof they will
be peremptorily excluded from the benefit of the
said order.
Friday the 12tl> day of December 1919 at two
of the clock in the afternoon at the said Chambers
Room 692 is appointed for hearing and adjudicating
upon the claims.
Dated this 25th day of June 1919.
(Sgd.) AI KEEN Master of the Supreme Court.
Note: The deceased Thomas Toton Jackson late
of 4 St. Leonards Place Kensington London S.W.
was one of the eight children of John Jackson and
Susan Jackson (formerly Toton). The deceased died
in 1892.
E. F. and H. LANDON, Solicitors for the Plaintiffs,
53 New Broad Street, London, E.C.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 12/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 4/- and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all Particulars posted on application
to The Manager.
For Biliousness
When your tongue is coated all
over with a whitish-yellow color
and your breath is bad, if you have
constipation and headaches, the
chances are you are bilious. Your
liver needs attention.
Strong purgatives which pro-
duce a re-action only aggravate the
trouble. Gentle assistance is what
nature needs. Pinkettes, the little
pink laxative pills, meet the require-
ments admirably.
1/- per bottle at all dealers.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “The Bulletin.'
•
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE
(STATE GUARANTEE) ACTS AS
EXECUTOR, TRUSTEE, ADMINISTRATOR, ATTORNEY and AGENT.
Expert, Efficient and Economical Management.
Write or cull for full particulars, CLJIAYUJ.I.A CHAMBERS, 07 CASTLEKEAGH STREET SYDNEY
T. AY. GARRETT, Public Trustee.
6^
L
fSOORD&,S ON
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
DT
Swift i
W C oin pun> A it siralu * i ti n Agents, 2(5 30 Clarence St.,
Sydney -
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
“No-Veste” Flannel Suit
IDEAL STYLE FOR SUMMER DAYS
S ', ,it (a , r *g*l*ed Peapes production) is another
example of the value of MADE-IN-AUSTRALIA clothes In this
here lCUl p^n'sn an t C if th ® f materia ], is a . BRITISH Flannei made-up
clothes which ’ l lUt 1S el ess in price than American-made
ciotJies, which must bear a 45 p.c. duty.
Poat S - three no lining or shoulder padding,
side' hint, ifn po< ’ k ® ts > all-soft fronts, three buttons. Trousers:
Side, hip and fob pockets and permanent turn-up A li»ht cool
and very distinctive suit for hot days. ° ’
Ready-to-Wear, 75/-
feg P meas P ufem P enS ge ' We “ C State height > chest ’ waist and ilisi ‘ le
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 & 311 George Street, Sydney.
■;"I
m^d
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOII COMING WEEK.
Hjsk Majesty's Grand Opera
Criterion “Going Up”
Koyal V ’Possum Paddock”
Palace “Eyes of Youth”
Tivoli “The Officers’ Mess”
Hoyt s Moving Pictures
Union I n eatres .Moving Pictures
MEI.IIOUUNE SHOWS POP COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Maytime”
Royal “Lightnin’ ”
r f> lN(i ' s “Old Lady 31”
Tivoli “The Eads of the Village”
Hoyt s De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
„ ELBA Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
: ♦— I
The J.C.W. Grand Opera tics have been
repeating themselves to good houses in Syd-
ney during the week; but the first-nighters
will roll up again on Saturday for “Car-
men.” The grand opera ambulance then
trundles along in this order with the slain
artists inside: Monday, “Butterfly” ; Tues-
day, “Carmen”; Wednesday (matinee),
“Faust”; (night) “Butterfly”; Thursday,
“Carmen”; Friday, “La Boheme.” For the
first performance of “Butterfly” the other
Monday the programme wasn't an accurate
guide. . Tom Minogue sang the music of
Goro (one of the most difficult in the opera)
after studying it hurriedly from Friday
night, and Roy Dunn took Minogue’s place
as the quaint Jap Registrar at the same
short notice. Dunn is a Lismore (N.S.W.)
boy now doing his flrst season of grand opera,
and pleasing the critics by his clear enun-
ciation, among other virtues. The Austra-
lians are putting up some fine performances
at short notice. Strella Wilson, at two
hours’ warning and with no rehearsal, took
Leah Myers’s place as Santuzza when the
Sydney girl was put out of action by a
cold-.
* * * * ' '
“ ’Possum Paddock,” presented to Sydney
playgoers at the Royal by Kate Ilowarde,
is amusing in spots. But it plods along the
same bush track that the Steele Rudd plays
have already covered so well, and the dust
raised by the first dramatic travellers is
thick on its hat. Steele Rudd would have
been just as dusty if “ ’Possum Paddock”
had been written flrst. But, as it happens,
that is not the order of the procession. If
Rudd has written the bush out in a couple
of plays circling round the same family, and
there is nothing more to he said, Australia
faces something worse than its war debt;
before it rises the awful prospect of witness-
imr play after play written on the same
model. The author of “ ’Possum Paddock”
has not, by the way, got his (or her) name
on the programme. Fred Macdonald, who cre-
ated the part of Dave in “On Our Selection,”
leads the company of I<S players who work in
“ ’Possum Paddock.” Harry Whaite is re-
sponsible for the line scenery, and Bcrc
It ache and his musicians play several things
by Sydney composers.
“The Eyes of Youth” has only three
weeks at Sydnev Palace and one of them
has already fled. Emelie I’olini’s revival
seasons elsewhere have surprised even the
confident Taits, and the Sydney season now
in progress should make the Firm happier
than ever. With the help of the Indian
gent.’s magic crystal, the nice fresh girl
who is having such a busy evening in dad’s
back parlor is enabled to make three sepa-
rate journeys into the future, reach a crash-
ing climax each time, and end up as good
as new in the arms of the right man with-
out even needing to powder her nose. It’s
a great dramatic recipe and intending
playwrights should scrap-book it for
future use. Miss
Polini’s co. has been
re-shuffled since
Sydney saw it last,
and there are sev-
eral new people in
support.
“EYES OF YOUTH,”
AT SYDNEY
PALACE,
Arthur Greenaway as
the Yogi
The aviation show, “Going Up,” is still
soaring in an atmosphere of popular
approval at Sydney Cri.
“The Officers’ Mess” is still pouring out
the wine at Sydney Tivoli. At this house,
too, the free list is entirely suspended. It’s
a wretched time for deadheads.
Charlie Chaplin is “down on the farm”
in “Sunnyside,” his latest million-dollar set
of contortions. Four Sydney sheets are given
over to the star —the Lyceum. Lyric, Crys-
tal Palace, and Strand. Charlie is the only
movie artist who can stand the strain of
supporting four box-offices; but he does it
easily—every session sees him ride the run-
away moo to the rapture of crowded houses.
Strand and Crystal Palace present Con-
stance Talmadge clothed in innocence, yet
flirting outrageously with the male property
of another, 5 while her own seeks consolation
from a lady of the chorus. It is Cosmo
Hamilton’s “Who Cares?” Charles Kay
and Dorothy Gish keep the home-fires burn-
ing at Hoyt’s and the Ilaymarket.
“Maytime,” at Melbourne Majesty’s, will
meet the unfailing demand for simple senti-
mentality and ornate clothing until further
notice. The new musical patchwork is not
well made; no piece is well made if the
exponents of young people of the Ist Act
are their own great-grandchildren in the
last Act, on the understanding that they have
been buried in the meantime. “Milestones”
didn’t make this time-worn error, nor is
the unreality of the effect lessened by the
miraculous longevity of Leslie Holland, who
lives and loves all the time, and is at least
100 not out when a giddy dancing-girl bears
him off the premises, saying, "Gee, I hope
he’ll last till I get him home.” Nor are
the occasional duet or solo items of a strik-
ing character. The attraction is in the
various generations of raiment, and in the dif-
ference between this sort of show and all
others that have music in them. Leslie Hol-
land is the life of the party in all four
periods, his gay senility at the finish being
a polished masterpiece of comedy. Three
ages of Gladys Moncrieff are presented with
nice feeling, more or less, and it is not until
“LIGHTNIN'"
AT
MELBOURNE
ROYAL.
The Judge.
sne is required to sing of the latest Paris
fashions at her dressmaking establishment
that she lapses into a hard, mechanical style.
The job has no inspiration in it. Also, it
is hard on the lady that she must respond
to the love-making of Keg Roberts once
again. For Roberts has a painful way of
telling his love. There’s an utter lack of
tenderness in his style even when he lays
on the sentimentality with a rough-edged
trowel. Ilis redeeming feature is his false
hair. And one carries away a sweet recol-
lection of Olive Godwin as a grieved, elderly
Madame who seems to have turned over a
new leaf since she kept a night club in Act 2.
Melbourne King’s will be the home of “Old
Lady 31” on Saturday. Sara Allgood,
Maggie Moore, Eily Mal.von, Katie Towers
and others are billed for this American play,
and Eardley Turner is in training for the
name _ part. . For only two more nights
“Daddies” will hold the mirror up to. bache-
lors, and reveal their fatberlv feeling for
other people’s children.
At Melbourne Royal “Lightnin’ ” con-
tinues to be an awful example of self-
inflicted prohibition after a lifetime spent
with cheerful Barleycorn. The old chap
looks happy without his Thirst, and for two
or three nights last week he appeared a bit
more melancholy owing to the retirement
through illness of Victory Bateman, who
ordinarily upholds the prestige of “Mother.”
Miss Mayne, a Sydney girl, tried to make
victory’s absence not too severely felt, but
her histrionic efforts were damaged by her
slim and obvious youth.
At Melbourne Tivoli the end of “The Lads
of the Village” is vaguely foreshadowed, and
already the pair of society dancers are stated
to be genuinely jazzing for their last week.
All persons desirous of discriminating between
real and imitation jazzes are advised to
hurry up.
Dolores was prevented by one strike or
another from journeying to Melbourne last
week; consequently her first concert at the
Town Hall stands adjourned till next Satur-
day.
Pauline Frederick’s love affairs continue
to bristle with the unexpected. As “A
Daughter of Old South,” at Hoyt’s Mel-
bourne picture-house she has the choice
between a X’Yark novelist and a wealthy
“ Lighinin' " at
Melbourne Royal.
Fred Cambourac
as Zeb.
Spaniard, and she
wrecks an ancient
movie tradition by
grabbing the
foreigner. Passion
is running high at
Hoyt's this week.
Virginia Pearson,
in her familiar role
of “Q ueen of
Hearts,” is the
usual well-inten-
tioned divinity. Enid
Bennett tries to be
“H ap p y Though
Married,” but the
ordeal becomes ter-
rible tvhen an un-
explained photo of
another female is
found among
hubby’s belongings.
At the Britannia
C 1 a r a Kimball
Young is reducing
Magda to the man-
nequin class, while
the trouble at the
Melba concerns
Wilfrid Lucas as a
“O o-r e s p ondent.”
To-day the Melba
promises a special
th r ill—Marguerite
Clayton in “The
Daughter of the City.”
Notes from two Melbourne galleries:—
The latest show by the Victorian Artists is a
collection of demonstrative futilities sprinkled with
a few choice examples of imaginative painting. First
prize must go to Harold Herbert for a little set of
water-colors which have a wonderful charm and
peace after the shrillness of his earlier manner.
Marion Jones, who shortly escapes to Europe on a
travelling scholarship, has a panel of pastel por-
traits distinguished by a dancing, vivid line. W. B.
Mclnnes contributes a bleak blue “Morning” and a
golden “Afternoon,” both of which give one the
sensation of fresh air. Leslie Wilkie exhausts his
enthusiasm on an attractive flapper, and elsewhere
flourishes a dingy palette in depreciation of Aus-
tralian scenery. Miss Cumbrae Stewart presents an
exquisite female back in pastel and a landscape full
of autumnal solemnity. W. Nicholls Anderson be-
comes less capricious as publicity expert for the
Mentone district, whilst the mist in Delafield Cook's
“Bush Solitude” -deepens in spots to mystification.
“Amongst the Poppies,” by Victor Zelman, is re-
markable for the glow of the vegetation and the
pre-Raphaelitish expectancy of the leading lady. J.
Ward Symons’ “Pool on the Werribee” suggests sub-
stance in its shadows. Two or three landscapes by
T. Dewey are very happily handled. Myer Joel’s
youngster in “The Curl” is the sort of early
worm that “gets the bird,” and the writer’s opinion
of Miss Gallaway’s “Olga” and “Valkyrie” could
only be inscribed on an asbestos brick. Portia
Geach’s “Blue and Gold, Sydney,” is really a bit
of the Harbor described in Morse code. David
Barker, a returned warrior, etches scenes in Pales-
tine with a discriminating needle, and the numerous
war pictures by Napier Waller, H. J. Sennett and
David Walker have some technical or pictorial
recommendation. In the central gallery Harold Gaze
exploits his vein of fantasy in a couple of draw-
ings, and Miss Christian Yandell takes her cus-
tomary tour of Fairyland armed with a very in-
structive pencil. Other pictures mostly represent
mere manual energy.
Walter Anderson and Stewart Handasyde have
an exhibition at the Fine Art Society’s rooms—of
12S works, no less! Anderson has a stronger sense
of variety than Handasyde, but no genuine inspiration.
Once or twice there is a leap of gladness, almost a
sparkle, in his color, but the effort is never sus-
tained to the extent of creating a really accom-
plished picture. Handasyde paints' marketable
marine views, scraps of S. Australian landscape, and
occasionally adds a jumbuck as a curio. “Good
Pastures,” his biggest study, is about the height of
his achievement, but the artistic pinnacle is con-
spicuous only on account of the flatness of the
adjoining scenery.
No other non-musical co. of recent years
has taken the fancy of Adelaide like that
of Figmau, and the season at the Royal
had to he extended. “Baldpate” somehow
missed S. Aus. when Niblo played it, and
the mercurial newcomer lias the advantage
of a mystery well preserved. Less pleasing
is the news from the Tivoli. That big
theatre is unaccustomed to light comedy, and
the Mclntosh venture there is coming to
an end. Nodin and Hillarv, Gwen Bur-
roughs, Audrey Worth and Noel Geddes have
presented a lot of light American stuff in
a way which deserved warmer welcome. At
the Majestic Barry Lupino gets every ounce
ont of the restless fun lie is provided with
Reggiardo juggles effectively, and Davis and
Fee provide athletic variety. Pictures are
good. At \\ ondergraph Billie Burke genres
up . th ! 4 anabelle whom Marie Tempest
made familiar. At West’s Anita Stewart
has a Midnight Romance,” and Hale Hamil-
on, as Johnny on the Spot,” spends most
or Ins time in getting Louise Lovely out of
trouble at the Pay.
August 31 was the centenary of the laying
of the original foundation-stone of St”
Andrew’s Cathedral, Sydney, by Governor
Macquarie. It was in what is now the
centre of George-street. Governor Bourke
set the site back.
‘! c - Ockney”: Pinero’s old-time farce
Ihe Magistrate;” re-christened “The Boy”
having been such a tip-top royalty-earner
in its musical-comedy guise, its author has
consented to “In Chancery” being turned
mto Whos Hooper?” “In Chancery” is
a do-year-old comedy, originally written for
Ldwaid Terry.
Last week Tiie Bulletin said that a
course of lectures by Prof. Meredith Atkin-
son at Melbourne Public Library had been
cut off in the middle because the trustees
didn’t approve of Atkinson’s independent
habit of thought and speech. An assurance
now arrives that the lectures were post-
poned solely on account of the strike, which
upset traffic arrangements. Their resump-
tion has, in fact, already been arranged.
“Ancient Prompter”: About the best un-
premeditated laugh I ever remember on the
“legitimate” stage was registered by a
flustered young mummer - who was given a
chance as Captain Thornton in “Bob Roy.”
The audience hadn’t taken much notice \>f
him till he beefed out his exit speech ; then
it sat up and roared its approval. This is
how he mixed things: “I die without dis-
gracing the country I serve, or the King
that gave me birth !”
“Sal”: We were talking at the hospital
about the most horrible thing we’d seen in
France, and we gave the prize packet of
fags to a Digger who told us about a barrel
of beer—real beer. “It was decided to get
it upstairs,” said Bluey, “so a rope was
found, and very soon the barrel was on its
journey to an upper window. At the critical
moment the rope snapped, and the barrel
fell and burst. The contents flowed
on the ground, and the stain was there a
month, and as a mark of re/spect each
of us on passing the spot bared his head
to it.”
“Fax”: One revival of “Silver King” was
remarkable for the fact that the man who
played Jnikes, not the man in the name
part, was starred. Westmacott, now of the
Williamson management, was running a
company at Melbourne Royal, and it hap-
pened that Billy Elton was open to a brief
engagement. Elton, the great attraction of
previous days, had been brought back to
Australia by a rival firm to play in a comic
opera which was no good. The op. d's-
banded, and Elton had time to fill in before
returning to London. So Westmacott got
him for Jaikes and made him the feature of
the cast. Scot Inglis was the Silver King,
and Harrie Ireland played Mrs. Denver
charmingly.
“Bally Who” : When our gallery patrons’
lack of politeness began to interfere with the
show, we engaged Big Mike as chucker-out,
encouraging him with the offer of half a
crown for every obstreperous person evicted.
In no time Mike had the gallery almost
churchily quiet, but on the last night of the
season Hades broke loose among the gods
and at the end of the evening a perspiring
Mike claimed payment for .100 scalps. We
cursed, but we were men of our word and
paid. But we hit the roof two days later
when we found that Mike had bought tickets
at Is. each for a hundred pals on the under-
standing that he was to chuck them out for
rude behavior before the show ended. His
profit was thus Is. 6d. per head, less cost of
promised beer.
One of the innumerable Cominos of
Sydney called in the police last week to
evict a man whom he claimed was wrecking
his oystery. The police arrested the alleged
disturber, took particulars, and warned the
Greek to turn up and prosecute. Many people
have no use for the law except as a means
of getting back stolen goods or having un-
ruly visitors pushed out of their shops. This
end being served, they decline to give
police-court evidence. Such a one, appa-
rently, was Comino, and the authorities were
naturally angry at his defection. Ordinarily
they can do no more to the laggard citizen
than threaten him that, in future, his yells
for help will go unheard. But on this occa-
sion the accused took a hand. On being in-
formed that he would have to be discharged
as Comino hadn’t turned up, he promptly
claimed expenses from his accuser; and
the Court allowed them, with alacrity. If
this practice develops, the day of the
malefactor who brings a starving wife and
children to bear upon the sympathies of the
citizen whom he has wronged will come to a
sudden end.


1 SUPPORT AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRIES.
Murdock’s Australian-made
Ready-to-Wear Clothing
will appeal to men who appreciate
values in goods of Australian manufac-
ture. The line here quoted is thoroughly
Australian. Tweeds are made from
pure Australian wool—in Australian
mills by Australians. They are cut and
fashioned by Australians in our own
workrooms.
Unequalled for value, style, smartness
and good service. Call and make your
selection to-day. We have a style to
fit every man. If you can’t call —send
height, chest, waist, sleeve and inside
leg measurements to Desk R.
Australian Tweed
Three-piece
Sac Suits
Ready-to-Wear
in popular Grey and Brown shades,
latest cut, with seam, no vent in coat,
two-button front, inside and outside
breast pockets, rounded corners.
Trousers have side and hip pockets and
cuff bottoms.
Price -
d
yfl///
K
i mw
FINISH
THE
JOB.
BUY
PEACE
BONDS.
Murdoch's
in Park
St. Ltd.,
Sydney
“Complete Outfitters for Men and Boys.”
10=INCH
DOUBLE-SIDED
FROM
41-
EACH
BRITISH-MADE
■Columbia
10=INCH
DOUBLE = SIDED
FROM
41-
EACH.
One of the Golden Voices of the World.
The Voice of CLARA BUTT
on COLUMBIA RECORDS.
12-inch PURPLE LABEL, Single-sided, 8/6 each
7101— “ Abide With Me” (S. Liddle), Key “C.” With Orchestra.
7121— “Ombra mai fu” Largo (Recitative and Aria—Handel).
Sung in Italian. Key “E” Flat. With Orchestra conducted
by Sir Henry J. Wood.
7127—“0h, Rest in the Lord,” from “Elijah” (Mendelssohn),
Key “C.” With Orchestra conducted by Sir Henry J. Wood.
7140— “ The Holy City” (Stephen Adams), Key “A” Flat, with
Chorus. With Band of H.M. Grenadier Guards.
7143—“ The Palms” (Faure). Key “A” Flat, with Chorus. With
Band of H.M. Grenadier Guards.
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR ‘COLUMBIA’' RECORDS-
SYDNEY, N.S.W. —Grafonola, Ltd.. Baking House, Itawson Place.
MICE BOURNE. VIC., anti TASMANIA. —Messrs. Hugo Wertheim Pty.,
Ettl., 173 William Street, Melbourne. •
BRISBANE, Q. —King- and King, Etd.. Queen Street.
ADEEAIDE, S.A. —Cornell, Rt<l., 123 Pirie Street.
PERTH, W.A. —11. R. Firth, Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. —Arthnr 11. Nathan, Etd., Customs Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.—Bannatyne & Hunter. Etd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.—Weble.v Sons & Cotton, Ltd., 343 High Street.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.—Webley Sons & Gofton, Etd.
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.
9ct. Hold Hunting Watch. Fine movement. Special
Quality. £l2/10/-. Guaranteed.
Men’s Gold Watches.
A very useful and acceptable presentation for a man
may at times be made in the form of a gold watch
of fine quality and assured service. The firm carries
a large selection especially suited for this purpose,
representing the most noted English, Swiss and
American manufacturers, and at prices to accommo-
date every requirement. Every watch which leaves
the establishment carries the firm’s fullest guarantee
and has been thoroughly tested and examined by
competent watchmakers.
WATCH CATALOGUE ON REQUEST.
Mm. grummonb & Co.
344-346 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE.
N
m,
yji. ~
\
Ps
* /*
s>ni
m
w
GUARANTEED TO
GIVE SATISFACTION
1 tiding Costumes to l>c Satisfactory
must he Produced in a manner not
one iota short of Perfection. Materials
must be absolutely suitable —Cutting
and Workmanship absolutely Flawless.
“Inncpln-Stuart” Stocks of Hiding
Textures are composed of Materials
made expressly for Saddle Service —
Garments are cut by a Tailor specially
skilled and having long experience in
this Branch of his Art —Making is
carried out by a specially Trained
Staff, with the Result that Satisfac-
tion can be Guaranteed in every
case.
RIDING COSTUMES (Coat & Breeches),
in Fawn and Grey Gabardines, Ready-
to-Wear £5/5/-
MADE TO ORDER, from • • £7/7/-
Coat and Divided Skirts or Side-saddle
Costumes to order from £B/8/-
RIDING HATS, in Black or Cuba
Brown Felt 15/-
RIDING BOOTS—to measure—in Box
Calf, Tan Willow Calf, or Black Enamel
Colt, from £5/5/-
LEGGINGS, Tan or Black Military
Style, or with spring Clip Front—
-18/-, 21/-, 22/C
GAUNTLET GLOVES, in Tan, with
Soft or Stiff Gauntlets 11/6
STOCKS, in White Linen 2/6
(All Prices less 10 per cent. Discount to
Returned Nurses.)
PATTERNS ARE POST FREE,
together with copy of Catalog, Tape,
Self-Measurement Forms, etc.
Write To-day.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
DURING SHOW WEEK
should make a point of calling at our Warehouse, Flinders
Street (opp. the Railway Station), or at our Sample Rooms
at The Showgrounds (under the new stand).
•
Lincoln, Stuart 8 Co. Pty. Ltd.,
“ Specialists in Riding Wear,”
244=254 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE.


MOST DECIDEDLY!*
Artistic awl Hygienic Floors are obtained by using
Light Oak
Dark Oak
Finishing
IP taubmans i
FLOBH YABNKH STAINS!
Walnut
Mahogany
Art Green
This preparation is equally successful on all flooring boards, whether new or old,
scratched. It gives floors that subdued “soft-gloss” tone that creates distinction’
good taste in the home, lhe colors are designed to match all home furnishings.
U Taubmans’ Floor Varnish Stains dry flint hard, and are waterproof.
discolored or
and expresses
SUPER
FINE
TAUBNANS UNITED
SUPERFINE
VARNISHES
232 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
492 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
AGENTS:
QUEENSLAND
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
I CH a S 'AßßnTT* Y^siha^l u tte street, BRISBANE.
Wll CheBSer Street, ADELAIDE.
WILSON & SHAW, Harris Street, WELLINGTON.
I
at
’Jn
win
-3
SMSES
ss l
w*
SeS”
FREE
TRIAL
BOTTLE
The Perfect
Emulsion
Prescribed by the Medical Profession.
Angier’s Emulsion is the most palatable, the most
cream-like, the most perfect of all Emulsions. Even the
most fastidious take it with pleasure, and it agrees
perfectly with delicate, sensitive stomachs. Those who
have found other Emulsions distasteful, should try
Angier’s, and note the difference; it always pleases.
Prescribed by the Medical Profession for twenty-five
years, it is a standard remedy of proved value, equally
useful for adults or children.
Send name and address, 4d. postage, and mention this paper.
ANGIER CHEMICAL CO., LTD , 233, Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
POVERTY
POINTS
MOET &
CHANDON
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
“S.S.”: We have an old-man drama at
the Royal (Melb.), and an old-woman play
at the King’s, and elderly romances at two-
thirds of the picture theatres, all American.
Uncle Sam’s war conditions , are coming
home to us. When Uncle ruled that all
eligible pros., as well as other unnecessary
persons, must prepare to shoulder a gun,
the need for giving a new aspect to local
drama was urged upon American dramatists.
They were called upon to use up the actors
dating back to 1880, so the plays of the
moment took on more age, and young heroes
went suddenly “out.” The result was soon
evident on the screen, where the amours,
fates and fortunes of persons with a shake
in the leg and a crick in the back were
exploited to make up pieces for the film.
In the States the brief run on the old-actor
hero has passed, but in Australia last sea-
son’s goods are just coming forward.
“0.K.”: A par. by “Harrison O.”
(B. 4/9/T9) is disingenuous, not to say
deceiving. What I said a week before was
that Melbourne Herald put down Mas-
cagni’s opera, “L’Amico Fritz,” to Leon-
cavallo’s account, and associated him with
“La Bolieme,” whilst the Argus spoke of
the latter as being Leoncavallo’s most
famous work. “Harrison O.” artfully
ignores the mistake the Herald made in
crediting “L’Amico Fritz” to the wrong
composer, and coolly remarks that my “mis-
apprehension” re Puccini’s famous opera was
as great as the other fellows’ mistakes,
which is simply a falsification of facts.
“Harrison O.” knows as well as.l.do that
Argus and Herald were equally guilty of
crediting Leoncavallo with another fellow’s
opera, the one paper going wrong as re-
gards “La Bolieme,” whilst the other fell
in as regards “L’Amico Fritz,” but was more
guarded in its allusion to “La Bolieme.”
“Harrison O.” needn’t remain in any doubt
as to whether I assumed that there is only
one “La Bolieme.” I did, and I do. I
doubt whether any manager produced a “La
Bohbme” by Leoncavallo a few months after
the production of “La Bolieme” by Puccini.
What was the date of the production and
the place of it? And if it were _ produced
under the very title which a previous com-
poser had made famous, what then? Did
that give the unsuccessful opera any real
existence as “La Boh&me”? “If “Harrison
O.” were to publish a new play called “Ham-
let, Prince of Denmark,” and somebody con-
fused his fame with that of Shakspeare, and
the authorship of “Hamlet” were credited
to “Harrison O.” on his tombstone, lie would
still not be entitled to the distinction. There
can be but one “Hamlet” play or one “La
Bolieme” opera. The second one, if there
ever was a second one, has ceased to exist,
excent for the purpose of disingenuous para-
graphs by “Harrison O.”
“Norbell”: Concerning the remarks of
“Black Out” and “Early Turn” about vaude-
ville pirates who won’t buy Australian ma-
terial, but pinch their songs, etc., from abroad.
Believe me, they are not above stealing home-
made stuff if some honest pioneer will
popularise it for them. “Black Out” in-
stances Leonard Nelson as a bright exception
(B. 4/9/T9). lie deserves a cheer in that
regard. In Dec., 1910, some verse of mine,
“W’en are yer goin’ away?” was printed
in The Bulletin, and Leonard Nelson
promptly paid me for the right to use the
jingle on the vaudeville stage. lie made
a hit, and after doing the stuff all over the
Commonwealth he recited it from Manila to
Hong Kong. On his return to Australia last
year he opened at Fuller’s Theatre, Sydney,
with “W’en are yer goin’ away?” only to
find that it had been done to death by scores
of vaudevillains from Cairns to Ivalgoorlie.
None of these burglars had the decency to
mention the origin of the verse, but in many
instances _ described it as “a little poem of
my own!” I myself found one fashionable
crowd of amateurs doing the piece with
great applause “in aid of returned soldiers.”
The author’s name was not mentioned (of
course), and the irony of it was that I had
just been discharged from the A.I.F. myself,
and was battling hard to find butter for my
own parsnips.
“Plus Tax”: It doesn’t often happen that
a lady running a theatre has a daughter
leading woman for a rival management in
the same town. But Sydney sees it. Kate
Howarde produces ’Possum Paddock at the
Royal; her daughter (Leslie Adrien) is
heroine for the Fullers at the Opera House.
Daughters haven’t been such a drug to Aus-
tralian managers as their wives. Alf Dain-
pier’s daughters, Rose and Lily, were very
useful to him; Charlie Holloway’s Beatrice
became his principal actress at a tender
age; old Tom Pollard’s girls were worthily
in the limelight; Harry Rickards’s helped
him a bit; Ben J. Fuller’s began a stage
career in the last Sydney Opera House pan-
tomime, and Bilaiulerson’s Mary lately made
her debut in a kid-role in Melbourne.
“Vaudeville Vet.” : The Japs have crowded
Sid Doodey out of the toy-manufacturing
business and sent him back to vaudeville,
where he rightly belongs. He came to Aus-
tralia originally as officer’s valet on the
war-boat Pylades. Once on that ship they
had Kaiser Bill as a guest for a week. Jel-
licoe was the gunnery lieutenant. Doodey
joined the navy at the time of the big naval
and military exhibition at Earl’s Court as
one of the Sons of Neptune. The “sons”
were all pros., but they went: through Eng-
land recruiting and giving the idea that all
there was to do in the navy was to sing
and dance. They attended every Thursday
at Osborne House, the home of Royalty on
the Isle of Wight. Doodey participated in
a seriously-sung quartette on one occasion,
and the old Queen, listening on the verandah
outside, sent to know the words of “that
beautiful hymn.” They wrote them down
with trepidation, for they began, “Come
where the beer is cheaper,” and ended,
“Come to the pub next door.” It was the
beginning of the end. A few Thursdays
later, at a birthday party given for the
daughter of Prince Henry of Battenburg,
Grimshaw, a really clever pedestal dancer,
overbalanced and fell from his perch, using
language that Royalty had previously heard
only in the very far distance. After that
there was no use for the Sons of Neptune.
Doodey was three years on the Pylades and
then joined the Fullers, to whom he now
returns after 20 years.
“Bally Who”: The yarn re Charlie Mor-
tyne trudging 18 miles to help a struggling
show (B. 21/8/T9) reminds me that there
is gallantry also among freaks of nature. A
vaudeville co— stranded at Cootamundra
(N.S.W.) a few years ago, and Stampini,
the steel-skinned man, saved the situation
as far as a couple of serios were concerned.
He sold some jewellery, bought the girls
tickets home, and then walked back to Syd-
ney. He had peculiar qualifications for the
job. The morning after the last show a
local celebrity in a hotel bar branded Stam-
pini’s feat of walking up a ladder of swords
as a fake. The impetuous young Italian
thereupon grasped the doubter’s beer and
“EYES OF YOUTH." AT SYDNEY
PALACE.
Teolo Salvo (Hannon Lee) and Piequard
(Maurice Dudley) have words.
set the glass on the floor; then, removing a
boot and sock, with his bare foot he ground
the tumbler into dust. The local man was
so staggered at finding Stampini’s foot intact
that he didn’t miss the beer.
“Ox”: Mclntosh makes the third Aus-
tralian manager to try the ’Murkan farce
“Fair and Wanner.” J.C.W. and Fuller
were the others. Another much-negotiated
comedy was “Baby Mine.” When “The
Glad Eye” comedians wanted an outlet for
their talents, J.C.W. was approached, but
there was nothing doing. The script
remained in the box till the edge wore oif
the ideas. Eventually it got a casual pro-
duction at Sydney Criterion, and later it
went on a vaudeville bill. I don't know
how the author felt about it, but maybe
she sold the play outright and wasn’t con-
cerned about the length of run. I can
imagine the success long Tom Shelford and
stocky Henry Ford could have made in the
piece. This rattling comedy pair, by the
way, after the Australian season forsook
French farce for the Big Tragedy—former
in the artillery and latter at Malta. If
Shelford discharged guns as quickly as he
spoke on the stage, Fritz never had a hope
from the first.
“FAUST," AT SYDNEY MAJESTY'S.
Mephistopheles (Alfredo Valenti) tales a
call
When the ’flu held up all shows in Syd-
ney Hugh Huntley sailed for Los Angeles,
and has already secured a movie contract to
support Vivian Martin. He reports a good
engagement for Boyd Irwin, whose success
in several local pictures tempted him afield.
“Ox”: Continuing the conversation re
rough vaudeville houses (B. 21/8/T9),
England never had anything worse than
Sydney Princess’s in the bad old days before
Jim Bain patted it into respectability with
an iron rod. Some of its earliest patrons
had their own method of reserving seats.
They would stroll in early, select a seat, spit
on it, and walk out. It was theirs then.
This was in the period when it was fashion-
able for young ladies of the locality to wear
button-photos of their best boys fastened
to their toecaps. The hapless one who
inadvertently trod on a button was regarded
as disrespectful to the young ladv’s bloke,
and harassed ushers had often to carry
out the hat-pinned remains of innocent pat-
rons. At present, under Harry Clay, the
Princess’s is almost a suitable resort for
a bishop.
. “Ancient Prompter”: The snappy play-
title is coming in again. Principal attrac-
tions at Melbourne theatres just now are
“Daddies,” “Lightnin’,” and “Maytime”—
expressive and sufficient. A while ago they
would have been “The Men who became
Fathers against their Will,” “Slow and
Sure Wins the Race” and “In the Spring
a Young Man’s Fancy.” American authors
have at least the knack of labelling their
goods effectively.
“R.S.V.P.” : In New York, as “Ox” says
(B. 28/8/T9), “the play has gone to bed,
with pyjamas and nighties all over the
stage.” Like the jazz madness, bed-drdma
in the IJ.S. seems to have floated up from
the nigger population. In less reputable
nigger circles performances with beds in
them can always be depended on to draw a
crowd. One favorite show is founded on the
terribly amusing basis of a colored bride and
bridegroom, with the audience “wise to” the
fact that the “bride” is a he-nigger disguised
in a peignoir. There seems little to choose
between the crude and obscene humor of the
situations in such a show, humbly staged in
Jim Grow halls, and the pretentious enter-
prises of Broadway.
“S.S.”: Victory Bateman, who is Mrs.
Jones in “Lightnin’ ” at Melbourne Royal,
finds herself for the first time in 20 years
playing second-fiddle. In America she went
sliare-and-share-alike for star places, no
matter how great the dramatic begum she
was playing with. Her chief successes were
in Shakspearean roles, and she was
America’s favorite Juliet for many years.
Her misfortune she bears in common with
many once-popular actresses —fat. You can
play Juliet at 60 years if your figure is
propitious, but you can’t do it at 2001 b.
“Bally Who”: A Cuban father in N’York
has just won a suit in which he claimed
possession of his freak sons who were joined
Siamese-twin fashion. An energetic entre-
preneur had abducted them. At present the
hapless kids who happen to be born joined
together are at the mercy of anyone un-
scrupulous enough to exploit them. English
and Continental cases of the kind are com-
paratively plentiful, and in far too many
instances the parents are too careless of the
poor kids’ welfare or too ignorant to keep
the wolfy entrepreneur from the door. No
country has yet devised a plan to help these
unfortunates. Germany just before the war
refused to permit the further exhibition of
such freaks, but Austria had some ghastly
examples. Vienna in 1913 exhibited to tre-
mendous business two beautiful babies, per-
fectly formed, but born head to head. They
lived till they were ten months old, and some-
one waxed fat on them the whole time.
One of the theatre identities who dis-
appeared from Melbourne soon after the
war broke out was little Herman, longtime
d.c. usher at the King’s, and widow O’Brien
Sheridan’s dresser in the long ago. He
popped up again in Melbourne the other
day, bronzed and cheerful. He had been
stretcher-bearing—a job to which little
glory, but a lot of gratitude, attaches.
“0.K.” : What strikes me in the unnatural-
ism of the performance of the new Ameri-
can lady at Melbourne Royal is its air of
imitativeness. I don’t marvel at the arti-
ficial diction and oglings of handsome Diana
Wilson, but I wonder who is her American
model. As a stage-dancer who has gone
lame for a while, and is devoting her con-
valescence to the task of living in a State
where divorce is made easy, Miss Wilson
is unconvincing in all respects. Her figure
and bearing forbid belief in her terpsi-
chorean career, save on the assumption that
she never danced vigorously and has run
to flesh since her mishap. Her querulous
tones sound out of harmony with her ap-
pearance of good nature and contentment,
and her languorous blandishments are in-
sufficiently subtle to conquer an elderly man-
of-the-world judge who can be cute enough
in trying a case in court. Such a, judge
would be scared, rather than fascinated, by
that sort of doosid fine woman. Yet the per-
sonality of Diana Wilson makes amends for
the faults of her performance. She is like-
able in her part. She would be likeable in
any part. An audience doesn’t criticise. The
men don’t put themselves in the judge’s
place. They put the judge in their place,
and think it very natural of him to adjourn
the Court for ten minutes whilst he inter-
views the large and winsome lady in his
own room.
London’s newest theatre, the Winter Gar-
den, is in Drury Lane, on the site of a
house once occupied by Nell Gwynn. The
managers are Laurillard and George
Grossmith, and the latter took a leading part
in the opening play, “Kissing Time,” adapted
from a French farce, with music by Ivan
Caryll, who conducted on the opening night.
“Norbell”: We lack a manager like the
late Dan Barry who would put on a fresh-
off-the-ice drama to synchronise with local
happenings. When a bird got away from
“the boob,” up went “Escaped from Pent-
ridge” ; if a bank-manager levanted with an
overdraft, “Untrue to His Trust” was a sure
winner. George Rignold had an eye for
the topical, too. When “Industrial Un-
rest” was first a familiar headline in the
evening papers, he put up “Work and
Wages.” Bland Holt did “The Absent-
minded Beggar” after Roberts’s entry into
Pretoria. It’s up to somebody to stage “The
Long Strike” again.
“Dido”: When Sara Bernhardt made her
first appearance in Melbourne, she was suf-
fering from a severe “co’d in ’er ’ead,” and
with the guile of an actress experienced in
all vicissitudes made preparation for the
worst, bestowing small handkerchiefs all
over the stage. I saw her fish three from
the upholstering of one settee in the course
of a single scene. Wherever the distressed
heroine had to make a stand in the progress
of events one or more handkerchiefs were
within reach, and after being put into use
were slyly returned whence they came.
I am prepared to swear that Sara “pinched
a wipe” from under the lapel of the hero’s
coat in the course of* a most touching recon-
ciliation. So deft was Madame that I
imagined I alone had discovered her miser-
able secret till I met Sheepswool in the
third interval. “Like her?” he said. “Of
course, I like her. Cripes, she’s clever the
way she juggles those handkerchiefs, isn’t
she? Did you see her take one from the
French feller’s ear?”
COMING OF AGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
For thirty years, and more, I played
The hero of romance
In fine d amatic garb arrayed—
It was my happy chance;
And all the little papers nigh
IVere wont to greet me with
“The hero, smartly handled by
That fine young actor, Smith!”
A brief rest came. When I appeared
Upon the stage again
’Twas as a father grey of beard
By callous villains slain.
Alas, the change! The critics then
(Indeed and ever sith)
Acclaimed me with a kindly pen
“That fine old actor, Smith!”
VICTORIA.
SNELL.


V :
.
i
2.
■ ■■
I turn
wm
m
ft
■
AS
\
&
4F>
i
i
i ■
. : .
■
m
: ■
h ::
m
■ ■
....... ■ :■•;
■1
■
:
-
evei*
“Now our home is every hit as nice as
Cousin Jim *s in the city.
Electric Light in the house and barn is only one of the improvements that Delco-Light brings to
the fai m home.
Delco-Light is a complete electric plant—that gives you not only all the bright, safe convenient
light you can use, but that supplies power to pump water and to operate such farm machinery as the
fanning mill, corn sheller. grindstone, churn, cream separator and washing machine.
In these ways Delco-Light saves many hours each week.
Thousands of users testify that it quickly pays for itself in
time and labor saved.
Dejco Light is easy to install. It needs only a few min-
utes attention two or three times a week. In return it gives
steady electric service, day and night, throughout the year.
Over 70,000 Satisfied Users
THE DOMESTIC ENGINEERING COMPANY, Dayton, Ohio, U. S. A,
Makers of DELCO-LIGHT Products
See Plant in Operation or write for Full Particulars to Sole Agents:—
New South Wales: WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD., 307-311 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
Victoria & Tasmania: WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD., 380-382 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
Queensland: SMELLIE & CO., LTD., BRISBANE.
South Australia: PARSONS & ROBERTSON, LTD., Grenfell Street, ADELAIDE.
West Australia: GEO. WILLS & CO., PERTH.
New Zealand: A. D. RILEY & CO., LTD., WELLINGTON;
FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION, CHRISTCHURCH.
I
m


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lag-er & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH,KALCOORLIE and COOLCIARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
foie Agents : RESCHS, LifliTED, Redfern. Sydney.
I WHAT MAKES THE WHEELS CO ?
LEWIS &WFIITTY MAKERS
IF CONSTIPATED TAKE
CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
Delicious “regulator” for stomach, liver
and bowels, for mamma, daddy,
and children.
If you are headachy, constipated, bilious,
or if the stomach is disordered and you want
to enjoy the nicest liver and bowel cleansing
you ever experienced, take a tablespoonful of
California Syrup ~of Figs—“Califig”— to-
night, and in the morning all the constipa-
tion poison, bile and clogged-up Avaste will
gently move out* of-the system without grip-
ing, and you will feel splendid.
Every member of the family should use
this fruit laxative as occasion demands. It
is just as . effective for-grandpa as- i-t is for
baby. It simply cannot injure. Even cross,
sick, feverish children just love its pleasant
taste, and mothers can rest easy after giving
it because it never fails to effect a good
“inside cleansing.” ,
For 30 years California Syrup of r igs
“Califig”—lias been recommended by physi-
cians as the ideal stomach, liver and bowe
cleanser. Millions of families who are wel.
informed use nothing else.
Ask your chemist for a bottle of “Califig
—California Syrup of Figs—which has full
directions for babies, children of all ages anti
for grown-ups plainly printed on the bottle.
Get the genuine, made by the California
Fig Syrup Company. Refuse any other kind
with'contempt. “Califig”—California. Syrup
of Figs—is sold by all chemists in two
sizes, 1/6 and '2/4. - 1 “
SPORTING
NOTIONS
MICK
SIMMONS
SPORTING
NEEDS
The season’s real racing begins with
Tatt.'s meeting at Randwiek on Saturday. The
Tramway Handicap (7 furlongs) and the Chelmsford
Stakes (a quarter of a mile more) are generally
taken bv good homes. The running in one is
always a guide to probable happenings in the
Epsom and other occurrences a week or two later.
The Chelmsford is a w.f.a. event with an elaborate
scale of penalties and allowances, aaid last year
Gloaming, with a featherweight aboard, ran away
with it as the preliminary to the Derby. He is
for it again this year, on the 9st. 41b. mark with
Rebus, though with half a stone less than Cctigne.
Among the Derby horses that may start are Gambler's
Gold. Admiral Collingwood, Richmond Main, Per-
shoiv, Elfacre, Rossini, Vermagne and Shapely. If
one of them happens to repeat the Gloaming act,
then a very open Derby will begin to wear a
narrower aspect. Of the last five Ghelmsfords four
were taken by three-year-olds.
* * * #
;Featherstitch is responsible for a lot of
horses of the useful class, though he has never sired
anything brilliant. His best son is probably Ardros-
san, who won the Welter at the V.A.T.C. meeting
on Saturday. On the same day Quickstitch also
won for him at Canterbury Park (N.S.W.), where
be was one of Booth’s “good things.” Spillway,
another of his progeny, is a quiet tip for the
Epsom. Although he missed a place at Newcastle
under 9st. 71b., he may not have been quite ready
at the time. He sustains Bst. lib. in the big mile
race.
* * * *
“0.K.”: It was inevitable that the stable
which last year, provided the winners of Caulfield
and Melbourne Cups would be expected to repeat its
triumphs this..year. All the same, stables are not
often given to that sort of thing. The adage that
“Nothing succeeds like success” rarely holds good for
more than one season. ■ This year the solemn whis-
perers arc full -of information about “Hick” Brad-
field’s stable because he won the big “double” last
time with King Offa and Night Watch, and the
Futurity Stakes with Lucknow. The two last-named
are talked of and marked down to short prices as
though the handicapper hadn’t given them all he
thought they deserved. A fortnight ago Night
Watch was the home-and-dry, real-moral defunct-bird
for the Melbourne Cup; last week he joined his
stable companions, Chrome and Lucknow, in the
bunch of early picks for the Caulfield event. Pre-
viously the dispensers of misinformation had in-
cluded Drumfire —a mean-looking English horse —
among Bradfield’s lot of certs, but Drumfire seems
to have lost his reputation. Well, they can’t all
be “bound to win,” and although the stable was in
great form last October-November, punters should re-
member how things were 12 months earlier. Chrome,
who has now a doubtful leg, was pipped for the
Caulfield Cup, and Lanius, the red-hot favorite for
the Melbourne Cup, ran like a cow with a crumpled
horn. Taking one consideration with another, the
Bradfield trio of the moment —Night Watch, Luck-
now and Chrome—look as likely as not to be doomed
to failure. The most uncertain of the three is
Lucknow. The English horse is a fine mover, and
he scrambled home for the Futurity six months ago,
but thus far he has never looked a picture of health.
Providence- only knows whether Lucknow is home-
and-dry for the Caulfield Cup. At present he looks
dry when he’s not at home.
Died the other day, Joe Pearl, one of the
best-known and least disrespected of Mell ourne book-
makers. Joe’s real name was Pegl, but the Anglici-
sation seemed most appropriate to his business. You
expect to find a pearl in a ring. And, anyway; the
name fitted him better than. Perl, for there was
nothing of the German Jew left in Joseph’s appear-
ance, whatever his ancestry might have been.
The recent A.It.C. Grand National Steeple
was the final adventure of Bundong, son of Bundook.
His mishap at Adelaide left him with a slight
chance of being patched up again, but the chance
weakened. - and poor Bundoitg , got the bullet last
week. Time was when the gel,ding was a popular
performer on the flat in the Albury district. Then
Eric Connolly got hold of Carbine’s grandson and
reckoned him a good thing fdr the G. N. IFurdle
Race at Flemington. The astute Eric = was only
a little too sanguine. In a hurdle race at Caulfield
before the big event, and again in the National,
Bundong had the bad luck to run against Merunqua,
who was a trifle too fast for the good thing. Subse-
quently he changed hands again and was put do the
bigger jumps; but results were poor, and Bundong
never improved on his reputation of being one of
Connolly’s lights that failed. The Melbourne trainer
aforesaid has brought oil so many coups in minor
events that his failures in big handicaps have been
the more noticeable. Just now he is in Sydney with
“a cert” for the Metropolitan, viz., Toison D’Or.
Well, if a Vic. horse wins the Met. it may be Toison
D’Or from England, amd if Connolly is very
hopeful on the day the lightweight will start at a
short price. But there are others.
* * * •
In flic tliree-yeal’-old handicap at Canter-
bury (N.S.W.) Rualma's half-brother, Mount Cello,
beat, amongst others, Posadoon, who is rather
fancied as a Derby candidate, and Red Wire, another
possibility. The latter, by the way, is owned by
a. squatteress, Miss Clift—possessor of the good but
disappointing Wea Wea.
* » * *
If all the Cnp horses that ran up to
reputation at last Caulfield meeting could be trusted
to keep going for a few more weeks, local punters
would have an embarrassing lot of fancies to choose
from. Amanus, imported from England by the
Tyes long ago, won the Doona Trial, not as easily
as King Oft’a won it last year, but meritoriously
enough, considering his burly condition. Under
tlie whip, Amanus wore down his compatriot,
Michael the Brave, who will meet him on rather
worse terms in the Caulfield Cup, should they both
see the barrier for that event. But the chances
are against Amanus getting rid of his superfluous
flesh, for he has an infirm hind leg. Michael is
more likely to go on improving; nevertheless he
looks hardly good enough, on paper, to be backed
for a fortune while three or more of his stable-
companions are alive and doing well. Michael takes
his meals in Bradfield’s home for favorites.
Lucknow, another piece of imported goods from
Bradfield’s stable, won the Heatherlie Handicap in
taking style. Red Dome (not entered for the
Spring handicaps) and stablomate Chrome also ran
a great race. The winner was lucky, perhaps, to
get home by half a head, seeing that Chrome was
only a neck behind the Second horse, after running
wide. All the same, Lucknow’s performance was
impressive, the more so for being unexpected. He
was reckoned very short of work as compared with
Chrome, so the stable beans were mostly risked
on the wrong gee, notwithstanding that Chrome was
meeting his stable companion on 131 b. worse than
their Caulfield Cup terms. It may be argued that
Lucknow was bound to win last Saturday if he
deserved to be as good a favorite as Chrome for
the coming event. On the other hand, we have
the fact that Chrome is the less likely to stand
a final preparation, whereas the only trouble with
Lucknow is to gauge his training requirements—to
discover exactlv' how little work he wants to gc-t
him fit for a fast mile and a half. A “searching
preparation” might knock Lucknow out.
The Memsio Stakes at Caulfield, which is always
worth noticing as a test race, produced another fine
struggle of three. Night Watch finished half a head
behind Sir Ibex (runner-up in the last Newmarket),
while Sir Ibex was a head behind Artilleryman, a
promising Derliv colt on this showing. All three
of them are Caulfield Cup candidates. Sir Ibex,
who never travelled further than six furlongs in
public until he was an aged horse, would be the
pick of the trio if he had proved himself equal to
12 furlongs. After losing the Newmarket to Moll> s
Kobe he gave the mare 91b. and a beating in the
first mile race he had ever started for. Ihe Memsie
Stakes distance is nine furlongs, so the old son of
Ibex is certainly coming on as a stayer. But he
would have to come on another three furlongs to be
dangerous in the Cup fight. #
Herewith H. R. Mil-
lev, one of the pioneers of
the Xllt-aside game in
X. S. Wales. In 1908
Miller became assistant
hon. see.; in 1909-12 he
was treasurer; and since
1911 he has had entire
charge of Rugby League
business in the Ma State.
He was manager of ihe
N. S. - Wales team to
Queensland in 1910. and
joint-manager in Maori-
land two years later. Be-
fore he took on this side
of the pastime Miller was
a dazzling •- three-quarter
with Eastern Suburbs.
* *
N. S. Wales Rugby
League’s first round in the
City Cup knock-out com-
petition on Saturday was
a blood-stained affair, on
the whole. The closest
game was Balmain v.
Souths, in which, with
two minutes to go, full-
back Wall (Balmain)
booted the ball through
the uprights, and so outed
Souths by 19 —18. Glebe
v. Easts was a tornado of
arms and fists and legs
aid boots out of which
Glebe scrambled with vic-
tory in hand: 18 —17. O.
Ogle's three tries gave the
luds their lift, and Wally
Messenger s four goals was
tne notable effort on behalf
of "Masts. Out in the suburbs Wests beat Newtown
by 18 —5, and Norths walloped Annandale by 18—10.
The hostility of barrackers and players to the
referees w'as bitter. At the end of the Balmain-
Souths match about a thousand hoodlums shrieked
for Tom McMahon’s gore, and the authorities had’to
spirit him away; also, during the Glebd-Easts
match,'-referee T. Dickenson was upended in a semi-
accidental way. Apart from-such episodes the after-
niateh “bqlf-on” habit is now quite a feature of
week-end hopfbrtll, 7 and it is up to N. S. Wales
Rugby Meagtie to’ check it unless it wants the game
pe. iTianefltly '.deposited in ■ the gutter.
In the third test between Australia and
M.L., at Auckland, on Saturday,- the trippers won
by 34—23, thereby taking the rubber. For Aus-
tralia Harold Horuer was again the heaviest scorer,
with five goals and two tries. In the three matches
Australia piled up 88 points to 07.
» * * *
Uni, in the final match for the Sydney
Rugby Union Premiership against Glebe-Balmuin,
demonstrated once more how the efforts of a superior
back division can be frustrated by the smothering
play of a fast lot of forwards. The scholars led
by 13—0 at half-time, and in the second half scored
2(5 points to G.-B.’s 25. McCallum, the hefty Uni.
forward, played the game of his life, and he was
ably backed by Gwytine—-whose pace, however,
carries him off-side a lot. Uni. had the better of the
scrums, and Morgan fed his backs well, but they were
overmatched, as above mentioned, and had to rely
too much on Raymond to get them out of trouble.
Wogan, the G.-B. skipper, was over-anxious, and the
complexion the game took on was evidently entirely
unlooked for by the G.-B. quarter line. Buchanan
was everywhere as usual, but Mayne could do little:
lie was too well watched. Final scores: Uni. 39,
G.-B. 25. The triumphant uproar of the winners
was in accordance with tradition.
Manly outed Y.M.C.A. in this division by 24 —0.
The Good Young Men were not good enough ;
but neither, for that matter, were the winners, the
match being a sliockinp- reflection on first-class foot-
ball. Cambridge and Easts played an even though
perfunctory game, which the latter won by' 13—11.
Want of seriousness has haunted the rank and file
in Sydney Union Rugby throughout the season—
attributable, probably, to want of audiences.
* * * *
An excited mob of about 35,000 yelled at
Carlton (Vic.) On Saturday. Carlton had to
beat South —and Richmond next Saturday—to get
into the Big Four, and as South headed the League
list the job was considerable. A fast, clean and
strenuous game ensued, South leading up to three-
quarter time. After that a slight diversion, which
ought to have been decided at the Stadium, moved
the barrackers to even greater excitement, and when
Carlton kicked a goal and got a 4-point lead a
number threatened to burst. The bell saved them
from actual explosion, and, after chairing the
players round the ground, they departed to cele-
brate. The Blues notched 59 points to South’s
55. As ’Roy beat Saints (52 —32) it has but to
down ’Wood next Saturday to reach the finals.
But ’Wood, being now equal in scores with South,
has only to wallop ’Roy by a surplus of 30 points
to displace it on percentages. Similarly, if Carlton
thrashes Richmond the latter passes out (unless
’Roy loses), whereas if the Old Blues lose or draw
their name is Slush.
* * * •
Adelaide is so keen on lacrosse that it is
apt to consider a man taking up hockey as a lacrosse
player wasted. Hockey is, however, very keenly
played by girls, and the Aroha team holds a remark-
able record. For three seasons it has not been
beaten, winning 35 games to 3 drawn; goals, 161 to
17. This, year it played 14 matches and won them
all, scoring 60 goals to 2.
« * • •
Family talents don’t always run the same
way. Dulcie, the 18-year-old daughter of scenic
artist Rege Robins, recently won the 100 yards’
handicap at N. S. Wales Women’s Sports League
meeting. ,
Tlie Victoria-South Aus. portion of the
inter-State cricket programme will be played at
Melbourne on Jan. 1, and at Adelaide towards the
end of February.
* * * *
C. Kelleway got back to Sydney last
week. He headed the batting averages in the A.I.F.
team (with 56.11) when he was forced to stop
playing owing to his wound.
* * * *
A recommendation by the committee that
only four men of the age of 25 or over should -be
allowed to play in any B-grade eleven was turned
down at the South Aus. Cricket Assoc, annual meet-
ing the other night. The idea was to give the
youngsters a chance; but members thought the rule
would be too stringent, and has-beens of mediocre
ability will continue to monopolise some B-grade
teams to the detriment of promising juniors.
* * * *
The local tennis world was astonished at
the cabled news that J. C. Parke had joined the
Davis Cup team. In addition to his wound the
brilliant Irishman had heart-strain so badly that the
doctors barred him from entering for the English
championship events. In 1912 he was champion
both of Ireland and Scotland, and he won the men's
doubles with J. F. Stokes and the mixed doubles
with Mrs. Larcombe. M. Woosnam, who is also now
said to be coming to Australia, is the best all-round
athlete in England. He was a quadruple Blue at
Cambridge six years ago, and is one of the most
brilliant Soccer players either University has pro-
duced for the last 20 years.
* * * •
William Johnston (the younger of the
two famous brothers) and Tilden beat Brookes and
Patterson 6 —4, 3 —6, 6 —-4, 6—3 at Forest llills
last week; and the elder Johnston and K. N. Williams
beat Lycett and Thomas with equal ease. Now, of
course, the Yanks are saying that the Davis Cup is
a certainty for them in 1920. On the other hand,
the Australian “form” may be wrong at the moment.
“Peck” Griffin, who has beateil R. N. Williams,
hadn't % look-in with either Brookes or Patterson at
Wimbledon. Since then the latter have been play-
ing continuously in tournaments. Patterson has
cracked up once and Brookes a couple of times; and
both of them are, doubtless, stale. Playing on
their own courts and at their top physically, there
is no reason to think they won’t down the Yanks
—provided the latter qualify for the visit.
Admiral Beresford, just dead, was a
sportsman of the old school. Like his brothers, he
was a supporter of the ring, and in his younger
days was a notable scrapper with or without gloves,
lie belonged to the Four-in-lland Club, and was
one of the best ' whips in England—a dying art
which he acquired from the great Fownes himself.
The keynote of his character in all things, from
warfare to the hunting-iield and the drawing-room,
was recklessness carried to the verge of insanity.
For a bet he once walked down Piccadilly, in the
middle of the London season, so clad that if a
policeman had intercepted him he would have done
considerable “time.” There was probably no known
brand of sport that he hadn’t had a shot at in
his 73 crowded years.
• * • »
In boxing the supply has a way of meet-
ing the demand —to the extent, at least, of one
champion. The Australian boom produced Darcy;
the French, Curpentier ; and now, in England, where
there is a craze for the game comparable to that
which Australia suffered in 1914, they have Joe
Beckett. It was no great feat in itself to out
M< Qoorty, who has been boxing in public for 14
years, who never recovered his speed after Darcy
“knocked” him (the first time, by the way, he had
ever been put down in the ring in his life), and
who has been doing part of his training on alcohol
of late, unless the cables lie. Still, all that Beckett
has done recently was in top-notch style, and his
chances look good against Carpentier.
* * * *
Fred Fulton did much the same thing to
Arthur Townley last week that Dempsey had pre-
viously done to him (Fulton). He put the seaman
put in one round. Dempsey took 18 secs, to do to
him what he took 2i minutes to do to Townley.
VINCE
BLACKBURN.
Vince Blackburn, the Balmain feather,
engaged the Filipino lightweight Jamito at Sydney
Stadium on Saturday night. The Islander is a
broad-faced, smiling youth, with a hide like dark-
brown leather and the heart of a bullock. He has
great strength and at least one good punch—a
right swing. With the scientific equipment of the
Sydney boy he might be a world-beater. As it
was he took an honorable hiding on points. lie
tried desperately throughout to win by the k.o.—
his only hope—but the local boy was much too
clever. Blackburn won chiefly by means of his
wonderful. left. He must have propped it into his
dusky friend's face dozens of times in each round.
* * * *
The final stage of Vic. amateur golf cham-
pionship was a tussle between ex-IJiggers Ivo Whitton,
Bruce Pearce and T. F. Rutledge ; and they finished
in that order. At the end of the first day’s play
the three were level. Then Whitton accomplished
rounds of 75 and 77, securing the astonishing aggre-
gate of 314. This is easily a record, the next best
being Michael Scott’s 321, put up in 1910. Whitton
has held the open championship of Australia since
1913.
THE SOUL OF A FIGHTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
There is little worth recording of a .fighting man’s
reflection^
(We finish on the pension-list—if we' can make
the age) ;
E’en the best of us.has nothing on his list of .recol-
lections
Would be given half an inch—except on Fistiana s
page.
But I have a clear remembrance of a battle to a
finish,
When the other man was beaten, hanging helpless
on the post,
And my credit in that contest, 1 in no way will
diminish
if I say 1 beat the fighter, but I could not beat
his Ghost!
I was longer-armed than he was, and a shade of odds
more clever,
I’d been longer in the business, had a bigger box-
of-tricks;
But he kept me fairly busy, with his diligent en-
deavor,
Till I put a straight one over, and he settled down
for six.
He was young and game and willing, and had stood
a pretty thumping
(I had outside information that lie' had a useful
right),
And his eyes were filmed and glazing, and his heart
was feebly pumpirg,
As I stepped across to tap him, and put “finis”
to the fight.
Now, that lad was fairly beaten, from a pugilistic
viewpoint;
His hands were hanging loosely, as he slid down
inch by inch.
But to any proposition there is apt to come a new
point,
And I saw it when he staggered oft', and fell into
a clinch.
He was green and amateurish, just a youngster, fresh
from college,
Or I might have thought him “kidding” when he
slipped into my arms ;
And I had it on him, every way, in ringcraft, reach
and knowledge —
I was loaded to the muzzle with the confidence
that harms.
I had finished with his body ; he was beaten to a
frazzle ;
But I had not made allowance for a force, still
in control,
That was present when he touched me, and it set his
eyes a-dazz-le.
I’d forgotten, if I ever knew, there is a thing
called soul.
For it was his soul responded to the S.O.S. he sounded,
And his soul his body’s trouble was immediate to
surmount
(The saying “Blood will tell” is most substantially
founded) ;
He broke, and half-arm chopped me, and I dropped
and took the count.
Which is why I list that battle with the best that
I contested,
And as amateur and pro. I’ve fought about as
much as most.
The only time I won a fight, and then was fairly
tested,
Was when the beaten party went on fighting —per
his ghost.
•N.S.W.
AMATEUR-PRO.


THE FINEST ASSETS
Health and Strength
Health and Strength are the finest assets any man can possess
—health of body and mind. The outlook is brightened and
there is the assurance of better things to come.
My Postal Course of Health and Strength Exercise
will make you fit, and keep you strong and healthy.
The surest way of improving the seen and unseen muscles
is by means of health exercises—exercises that drive a copi-
ous supply of rich, virile blood throughout the system—
nourishing the whole system with oxygen, expelling waste
tissue, building up new tissue, benefiting every part of your
body. The BAKER EXERCISES consist entirely of good
exercises based on these lines, and have been tested and
proved by experience.
My booklet, “Health and Strength from Self-Culture,” will
be sent 1-REE on request. Send three stamps to cover
postage, h irst write your name and address across this
adi ertisement. I will know what you mean.
Those who desire personal tuition at my
Institute are invited to call and have a chat
with me about their when I shall he
happy to show them over my modern and
perfectly appointed establishment. Advice
and consultation FREE.
REG. L.i snowy (BAKER,
Natural Health and
Physical Cu.ture
Expert,
107 Municipal Buildings, Oxford St. (Cr. Crown St.), Sydney.
GREAT-
AtlAnw Flight
XI
».
sv
Wa
SHELL
BENZINE
WAS USED
in the Vickers-Vimy Bombing
Aeroplane flown by Capt.
Alcock and Ideut. A. W.
Brown.
MOOIvE (Patent)
4-speed
GEAR BOX
for Ford Cars
WESTCOTT, HAZELL & CO. LTD.,
311 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
Suppliers of all Motor Accessories.
DUNCAN PTY. CO.,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOR
MINING, MILLING, etc.
INCLUDING
STEAM ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
ANI) WILL BE POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO
THE SECRETARY,
Box 229 U.P.0.,
MELBOURNE.
the general manager,
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEHNSLAND.
THE SECRETARY,
Box 220 G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
Jaw Breakers.
Gyratory
Breakers.
Crushing Rolls
Elevators.
Screens.
Conveyors.
Portable and
Stationary.
Crushing
Plants.
OVER 1000 SUPPLIED.
STONE BREAKERS
ALL SIZES. CAPACITIES, ICWT. TO 100 TONS PER HOUR.
Send for Illustrated Catalog No. 20. MACHINES IN STOCK.
MANUFACTURED BY—
JAQUES BROS., Pty. Ltd.,
Coppin Street, Richmond, MELBOURNE, VIC.
nesia
for Indigestion.
<y>
Your Dipping Results are
guaranteed by using
13
y
D
(POWDER) SHEEP DIP
Well-known Sheep men endorse it as
splendidly effective in eradicating all
sheep-infesting vermin.
“VALLO” makes Sheep clean, com-
fortable, woolly and weighty.
Try it—all Dealers supply.
Manufactured by
A. Victor Leggo 8 Co
Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane.


Specialties for Smok
ers.
COLD®
■ ' Its
CIGARETTES.
FARMER’S HAND-MADE VIRGINIA
CIGARETTES are made from the finest
bright Virginian leaf, and may be had
with plain, gold or cork tips. The choice
of the connoisseur.
In boxes of 25, 1/4; 50, 2/8; 100, 5/4.
TOBACCO.
“SPORTING LIFE" TOBACCO will be
appreciated by those who enjoy a mild,
long-burning tobacco which does not bite
the tongue. High-grade, cut gold bars of
best Virginian leaf. Packed specially
for Farmer’s. Oz., 7d.; i lb., 4/6; lb., 9/-.
"We Pay
Carriage
Farmer’s
Sydney
Box
497 G.P.O.
Smart Gowns for
All Seasons.
Once more gaiety
and festivity hold
sway. You have
little time to place
at the disposal of
your costumier, but
more than ever you
need smart, new
gowns. By the
Shave model fitting
system you are
assured a perfect
fit without the in-
convenience of try-
ing on. The name
“Shave” stands for
the last word in
style and distinc-
tion.
Visits to Sydney and Adelaide twice
and to Brisbane once yearly.
SHAVE
Ladies’ Tailors, Centreway,
Dressmakers, Melbourne.
We invite you to our next Display.
e It oman
HIGH-CLASS
SPECIALTIES
Creams
?r d
Pastes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
AIL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANG LTD.
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne. ,
E. DROWN (§> SONS LONDON
AGENCIES • ALL - OVER - THE • WORLD
MELBOUNE CHATTER
Warners
RUST Proof
Corsets
Victor Hood, private sec. to Lieut.-
Governor Irvine, has been in hospital nurs-
ing lumbago and a chill. “Tup” Williams,
his Ex.’s Supreme Court associate, is also
seriously ill. Wanliss, A.D.C., and one of
the associates of a brother Judge have been
double-banking to cover the work of the two
sick men.
Late Alexander Marks died mindful of
the fact that a very little money may go a
long way with a co-religionist. He be-
queathed £2OO to the care of the presidents
of three Jewish institutions, to be distri-
buted by them “among 20 poor Jewish
families or persons in or near Melbourne,
£lO to each.” Now somebody is sure to
suggest that the 20 gifts of £lO will result
in the opening of 20 more little loan agencies.
Thomas Drummond Wanliss, father of
Lieut.-Gov. Irvine’s lady and of Captain
Ewan Wanliss, A.D.C., is still living in
Edinburgh, to which he retired after leaving
the Vic. House of Landlords 21 years ago.
Melbourne Uni. War Memorial Fund is
promised a donation by the Engineering
Students’ Society, which will endeavor to
raise the gift at a ball in St. Kilda Town
Hall, on September 25.
Margot Hooper is not hurrying off to an
expectant fiance at Honolulu. A paragraph
in this column recently charged her with
that exciting intention.
On Thursday last Mrs. George Eddington
hostessed a big farewell frivol for daughter
Lenore, who travelled to Sydney next day
with her naval surgeon Carr. He is to look
after the health of the Australia. Bride
Lenore’s great show of wedding gifts will
be unpacked in a Potts Point flat.
Mrs. Harry Prell hostessed an afternoon
tea at her new house, which stands on a
slice of land cut off the Herbert Power
estate. The tea-and-talk show was bright-
ened by a couple of songs by Mrs. Sam
Mackay. Harry Prell bravely faced the all-
feminine gathering, and dashed to and fro
with light refreshments.
Mrs. Cabena gave a big spread at the
Town Hall on Friday to say “Hullo!” to
Mrs. Billy Hughes.
A jug of icy-cold water was thrown by
Frank Clarke, Lands Minister, on the pro-
posal to import British women-workers to
take up farm labor with State help or as
employees. In the presence of Miss Pughe-
Jones, one of the two delegates sent by Lord
Milner to take observations on the spot, he
said that poultry-farming would not pay
except in rare circumstances, and that work
on dairy farms from daylight to dark was
“real slavery,” to which he was not inclined
to snare former war-workers. The Minister
shocked some of his “right-thinking” friends,
who think he should have been “naicer.”
Wallace Brownlow, whose dead body was
found a day or two ago in the Exhibition
Gardens, leaves many a grey-haired playgoer
grieving. In the early ’nineties, when the
dashing light baritone was captivating Aus-
tralia as Henry of Navarre in “Ma Mie
Rosette,” with Nellie Stewart in the name-
part and Henry Bracy, Florence Young and
Howard Vernon in support, suburban chat-
terers couldn’t be bothered with any other
singer. But Brownlow wasn’t in love with
the stage. He had moved on from London
Savoy and Gilbert and Sullivan successes
to Australia; and at the height of his Aus-
tralian triumph he threw up his J.C.W.
engagement and went mining in Westralia,
afterwards moving on to American fields.
Probably it was that adventurous streak in
his character that made him such a gallant
figure on the stage. Back in Australia in
1915, he sang at the Tivoli and then went to
the Pacific Islands. But his health was
gone, and when hope went, too, he made a
desperate man’s end of his trouble. The
last service he rendered to the public was as
a hospital attendant during the ’flu epidemic.
Minister for Territories Glynn has to do
a little House-opening, too, these days. True,
the Council of Advice which has been set
up in the N.T. hasn’t got a Throne; but
Mr. Glynn does the best he can without it,
and had his Speech read by the Director
who has taken the place of the Administra-
tor. The Speech was in the Minister’s best
literary style—a series of moral reflections.
But when he said that “from force without
reason no final settlement can come” one of
the Labor representatives “chipped in” that
he wasn’t so sure about that. So far the
Council of Advice hasn’t advised Mr. Glynn
to any visible extent; but some of its mem-
bers are bothering him for “Parliamentary
Privilege”—the right to say what they durn
well please about their neighbors.
The late Dean Godby, who spent most of
his Australian years in charge of St.
George’s, Malvern, was neither affable nor
popular; but he was “white” all the same.
St. George’s though, somewhat exclusive,
knew bitter hard times after (the land-
boom, and never fully recovered. In those
anxious days Godby reduced his own screw’,
which was by no means bloated; and his
private acts of benevolence w r ere termites to
his bank-account. Still, he managed to rear
a quiverful of good Australian citizens; and
his translation to the deanship was no doubt
a relief from the worries of St. George’s,
though he w T as “dying on liis feet” when the
appointment was made.
The betting is strong on Aikman for the
Gaud Mayoral job. He has plenty of money
to spend, but no wife to share the fuss
with. He is a widow’er. Weedon, thrice
W’earer of the rabbit-skins, has definitely
decided not to be a starter.
Mrs. Horatio Webb, of the Austral Salon,
has been piloting her brother, F. Bryant-
Esmelton, who came fi’om America to pro-
duce “Lightnin’ ” after an absence of 22
years. He was in France with the Ameri-
can troops, and had only returned to the
States a few weeks before taking his present
job. Mrs. Webb and the Salon gave a re-
ception at Menzies’ for the “Lightnin’ ”
crew. Pretty Diana Wilson, in a short-
sleeved white cloth frock, smiled and showed
off her complexion. Walter Kirby sang by
special request of the beauty. He is a sick
man at present.
This is Marie E. J. Pitt, the clever woman
whose signature is so familiar to Bulletin
readers. She has written much fine,
thoughtful verse, and some of it has been
collected in a volume entitled “Horses of the
Hills.” But there is much yet to be booked.
one of Mrs. Pitt’s
most enthusiastic
critics is Bernard
O’Dowd—himself a
writer of distinction,
to whom f he merely
pretty verses of the
average poetess would
never appeal. The
intellectual Bernard
considers that Mrs.
Pitt ranks with
Jessie Mackay, Mary
Gilmore, Dorothea
Mackellar and Louise
Mack, whose names
have been made
familiar through Aus-
tralian anthologies.
And besides being in
the ranks of the
poets, Mrs. Pitt is a brave woman who has
faced domestic misfortune with a courage
that has commanded the admiration of her
friends.
The E. ,T. Carroll family has been fare-
welling, prior to departure for the territories
of Uncle Sam and J. Bull. One party last
week was also a greeting to Mr. and Mrs.
Wilfrid Lucas, of Los Angeles. She is “Bess
Meredyth,” an American scenario writer, and
he is a pioneer of the film business over
there. The Lucas pair are going to spend
some months on Eric McKellar’s station
near Gunnedah (N.S.W.), where they hope
to get some local screenery for the Carroll
film circuits.
Adelaide watches the crowd :
The Women’s War Memorial has advanced a stage.
The City Council has approved of a site in the
park land 3 opposite Pennington Terrace, “well-known
authorities in England” have supplied suggestions,
and funds are ccming in steadily.
Mrs. Crawford Vaughan has departed for Eng-
land, via Brisbane. Her ex-Premier husband has an-
nounced that it will be some time before Australia
sees him again. We may hear of him next in
English politics.
Wattle Day was celebrated on Saturday. Red
Cross business called the Governor to Melbourne, so
his place at the Gallipoli Grove was taken by the
Chief Justice, who duly planted the tree presented
by the Mayor and carried to the Grove per aeroplane
by Captain Butler. In the afternoon the League’s
additions to the Orthopedic Wing at Keswick were
handed over to the Defence Department. Butler
made three friends for life after his Peace Loan
flight on Friday by swooping over the Children’s
Hospital in response to the request of three small
patients.
The Sun-Raysed £lOOO prize has come to an
Adelaide girl—Miss Elise Williamson, of Glenelg.
The Scarfe-Gardner wedding is to be on Sep-
tember 25 in St. Peter’s College chapel, where the
bride’s brother is organist.
Nancy, younger daughter of the Edward Kay
pair, is engaged to Charles E. Allen, who hails from
County Cork.
All the guests chatter happily about the dance
given by Lily Melrose and Mrs. Albion Tolley at
the latter’s house on Friday night. The Brier
Holme garden is famous, and flowers were every-
where. The ballroom was a huge marquee decorated
with Egyptian friezes and hanging curtains. ■
There was a flappers’ dance at the Osborne Hall
on Thursday night, with the pupils of Girton House
School as the hostesses and their headmistress’s son,
a returned Digger, as the guest of honor.
Died on Wednesday, after an illness of some weeks,
Mrs. Robert Burns, wife of the associate-editor of
the Register. Few South Aus. pressmen are as
popular as Robert Burns, and his loss lias brought
him wide sympathy.
The Repatriation Department has bought the old
Pulteney-street School premises. The school was
opened in May, 1848, by the Rev. E. K. Miller,
prompted by Bishop Short. The Leg. Council had
just passed an Act providing that any school with
not less than 20 pupils might be granted from the
revenue £1 per annum for each pupil up to 40,
and £1 extra for each pupil instructed in the
“higher branches,” but no teacher was to receive
more than £lOO per annum. Arrangements are
being made for temporary premises for the school,
and it will probably soon ha\ e a new home on
South Terrace.
Thirty shillings a week is declared to be a living
wage for woman in Adelaide. She can, the Indus-
trial Court rules, not only live in reasonable com-
fort on that and dress herself, but also help to
maintain a church (there was a general demand for
thruppence for collection) and buy sweets. There
was a lot of argument as to whether sweets were
necessary. The Court allowed them; and now on
: her 30s. the Adelaide woman ia in great danger of
making herself dreadfully bilious.
Dorothy Cook, a war-brick-elect, stepped
off the Orsova last week in Melbourne to
meet Capt. C. G. Farmer, late of the A.S.C.
in France. Captain Farmer is a Tasmanian,
son of the Recorder of Titles in Hobart.
The very petite bride, an English girl, knew
no one in Australia, so another Tasmanian,
Colonel Hilma Smith, manager of the Com-
monwealth Savings Bank, gave the bride
away. Mrs Hilma Smith tendered the bride
a wedding party, and the Colonel borrowed
a sister from his adjutant to act as brides-
maid. Another Tasmanian soldier, Billy
McCrovv, was best man. The small, shy
bride-elect went straight from the Orsova
to the Oriental, where she met the rest of
the wedding party, and was whisked off to
St. Peter’s, where Canon Hughes tied the
knot. The ’groom has a farm home in
N.-W. Tasmania.
Lord Athlumney. whom Margery Bonn
lately married, had a commission in the
Coldstreams during the Boer War, and
gathered up some curious Kruger relics, in-
cluding Oom’s inkstand, pipe and official
belltopper.
Young Mervyn Woinarski is to be associ-
ate to his brand-new Honor Mann.
North Essendon has just acquired a fine
pleasure haunt and picnic ground from
Theodore Napier, the ancient Scot who
skips over Melbourne in the airy uniform
of a Highland chief. Though he was born
here he spent years in Scotland, and soaked
up its traditions in many journeys and ex-
plorations. The patriarch’s dad was one of
the features of early Melbourne, and once
owned the block on which the Argus office
stands.
This is Monteath’s latest profile of Max
Meldrum, the painter who is heading a small
but brilliant crusade against many conven-
tions in art. Meldrum hails from Scotland,
but began his artistic
education at the
Melbourne National
Gallery, where he
obtained a travelling
scholarship in 1899,
which hurried him
towards Paris. The
disillusion-
ments awaiting him
inspired his con-
tempt for academic
authority and drove
him to bury himself
in Brittany. The
small village of Pace
held him for 13
years, and here he
painted and de-
veloped his theories
untouched by the
furious jargon of the “schools.” In 1913
he came back to Melbourne to save art from
the insipidities of the Potboilers’ Union, and
was soon in the middle of a controversy
wherein his tongue was as brave as his brush.
Presently he will again prod his enemies
by a vivid and challenging description of
his work which is to be published by Alex-
ander McCubbin. This volume, which will
contain reproductions of his biggest achieve-
ments, will probably be handled by the Pot-
boilers with a pair of tongs.
Apropos a recent misunderstanding over
the Wattle Day show, the Yankee “baby-
doll” term of endearment is dying fast. Its
applicability was too contracted. The athletic
Diana who goes in for tennis, not to men-
tion the blue-stockinged highbrow, or the
fat girl with a roving eye, didn’t care to
be “baby-dolled,” even in the pale moonlight.
When you come to think of it, nothing but
the fixed stare of Minnie Love enabled that
bonnie artist to overcome the absurdity of
expecting an audience to accept her as a
broken doll —especially an audience that
remembered her as principal boy in panto-
mime. When another tall ex-panto boy
tested public credulity by singing. “What
will become of your little doll girl?” nobody
took her seriously.
The first of the Red Cross convalescent
homes, established by the Australian Society
in Victoria, at the request of the Repat.
Department, jjv ill be opened at Ballarat on
September 15. Lady Helen will turn the
key.
A line from Freda Sternberg:—
Evelyn Scotney has “packed her troubles in her
old kit bag” and gone to Long Island to study the
11 new roles in which she is to appear at the
Metropolitan Opera House in N’York. Her new
teacher is Curei, who was responsible for the Galli
Curci sensation of last year, and he prophesies
that the Australian woman will have fame rivalling
even Melba’s. Evelyn has made a great fight since
she was struck down with the ’fin that carried off
her husband, Howard White. And now she has
a four years’ contract from the Metropolitan at a
figure which would console almost any woman.
Vancouver Society donned its best to attend the
Cherniavski-Rogers wedding. It was so romantic.
For three years the story of how papa refused his
consent had been one of the favorite topics of
local conversation. Rogers, sen., made his pile
in sug'ar, and hated the idea of his one and only
daughter entrusting her future and her money-bags
to an artist. The consent was eventually wrested
from the widow Rogers, and the couple are honey-
mooning at Banff, in the Rockies. Brothers Leo
and Jan, along with violinist Selinsky, arrived from
Honolulu in time to support the bridegroom.
Harold Smith, pianist at the latest
series of Dolores recitals, is a native
of tiny Swansea, on Tassy’s east coast
for many years he was a white-
haired boy of Laver’s at the Uni
Conservatorium, trailing clouds of scholar-
ships behind him as he tracked towards the
higher levels. Though his birth certificate
lias been lost in the mists of antiquity,
Smith has a singularly boyish platform
appearance, and his concert-manners are
sweetly perfect, the piano receiving from
him the graceful homage due to a perfect
lady.
Theophilus Roberts, the Melbourne man
who holds unorthodox views on voice-produc-
tion, has convinced two local specialists of
the eminence of his discoveries regarding
catarrhal deafness, and will probably be in-
vited to talk to the University on the matter.
Even the most incredulous of his critics is
now beginning to suspect that there is some-
thing in his theories. Having produced in-
telligible English from the mouths of people
whose larynxes are absent or rudimentary,
the young man has got to be taken seriously.
Departing singer Florence Fawaz (pro-
nounce it Faws, if you please) looks in the
spotlight like a big, darling baby. At how-
de-do range the soprano loses nothing, hav-
ing a lovely color and the clear complexion
that goes with the right sort of constitution
for an ambitious operatic career. Her voice
is a warm, rose-hued ecstasy that wakes
melodious memories of the bush at dawn;
and N’Yark will no doubt take her to its
heart without hesitation.
Carrie Haase gives an elocutionary recital
at the Playhouse on September 29. Carrie
was doing well in England before the war,
for the young Australian is an artist of
power and endurance. She has even played
the tremendous part of Chorus in Hardy’s
interminable tragedy, “The Dynasts.”
Snappy comments upon the happenings
of the day are the latest additions to the
cinema “newspapers.” The idea was brought
back from America by F. W. Tliring,
manager of the Firm’s picture theatres, and
has been tried with success in Melbourne.
Harrison Owen is supplying the witticisms,
which will be flashed on screens throughout
the Commonwealth.
A moving-picture, “Home, Sweet Home,”
is being shown round to bring about a rush
of Peace Loan subscribers. An enbonpoint ,
middle-aged mummer represents the hero, and
among the dinkum Diggers who act as
supers he is about as convincing as the
average “male impersonator” of vaudeville.
With lean Billjims surrounding him, and
wearing a hat several sizes too small, the
plump mime looks too new to be true. After
being welcomed home to a suburban villa, he
lolls in graceful languor, sipping afternoon
tea and being charmingly attentive to the
ladies. Then he is shown on a miraculous
farm inhabited by fat cattle. Leaning pic-
turesquely against sliprails, wearing military
pants from which the braces hang negli-
gently, and a beautiful white shirt with a V-
shaped opening, the hero watches a lengthy
procession of kine and whispers sweet no-
things to his wife till the cows come home.
The National Committee for Relief in
Belgium drops a line to say that it has
concluded its efforts. Mr. Hoover has cal-
culated the contents of every bread bin, and
has decided that it is time to say farewell.
So for the present, at any rate, it wishes no
further gifts of clothing or money.


Born 1820
—.still going strong
V*
%
b
/*)
v%
h
P 4
&
P
A
V
ft
<*h£f
««
‘A thing of beauty is a joy for ever.’ ”
And as ‘Johnnie Walker’ is a joy tor ever, it must
be a thing ot beauty.
JOHN WALKER & SONS, Ltd., Scotch Whisky Distillers, KILMARNOCK. Scotland


Under
Royal
Warrant
To H.M.
George V
CHAMPAGNE
R
IHi
P^HamPAOHE
Reims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
THE
BRAND of QUALITY.
AND
PRESERVING
TRADE MARK
REGISTERED
II
nnrhl ffl
POLISH C?
FOR
LINOS, WOOD FLOORS, etc.
Thera Is ONLY ONE “NUGGET.”
Refuse Just as Good.
IT'S NO TROUBLE NOW IF BOBBY TEARS HIS
CLOTHES. 1 SIMPLY MEND THEM WITH
CQend-a>-Tga>r
THAT WONDERFUL NEW MATERIAL WHICH
MENDS WITHOUT STITCHES. IT'S SO NEAT,
SO EFFECTIVE AND SO SIMPLE TO USE. I DO
.HIS REPAIRS IN A QUARTER THE TIME
Obtainable through all Drapers,
Stores, Cycle Agencies and - Motor
Garages.
Sample Outfit Post Free on
Receipt of 1/4.
Sole Wholesale Distributors for N.S.W. and
Queensland —
Bennett § Barfcell Ltd.
Meagher Street, SYDNEY.
VANITY FAIR
stands for the highest quality, the most
fastidious workmanship in SILK GLOVES.
For absolute glove comfort, perfect shape
and exquisite finish, Vanity Fair is the glove
that ladies should choose.
Look for the name “Vanity Fair” in the
hem.
Each pair contains this Guarantee:—
“If these Gloves wear through at the finger-
tips at any time before they are washed, and
before the rest of the Glove has had reasonable
wear, we will, upon receipt of this ticket
and your Gloves, replace them with a new
pair.”
THE SYDNEY AGENT- -FOR THE MILL IS
EMPOWERED TO REDEEM THIS GUARANTEE
TO TILE MERCHANT. [1
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
His Ex. and Lady Davidson will leave
next Sunday for a fortnight’s jaunt. First
they will proceed to Whittingham, where
they will be the guests of Mrs. A. A. Dan-
gar, at Bardona. Next they will boil the
billy at Muswellbrook and Scone, and at
Armidale his Ex. will preside at the jubilee
of the Grammar School. Then they will
climb the Dorrigo, and dropping down to
Bellingen, sample Coff’s Harbor, Kempsey,
Taree and Wingliam before zigzagging up to
Gloucester.
Daphne and Diana have been pictured by
photo-artist Katherine Elder, who has so
pleased Lady Davidson that she is sending
the pictures home to be hung with the family
portraits. Miss Elder, a daughter of the Rev.
Frank Elder, is a sort of descendant of Gov-
ernment House. She is one of the large clan
which began with Governor King.
U.S.A.-Consul Brittain, who has been for
five years in Sydney, has had cabled advice
of his transfer to Winnipeg, the bustling
growing prairie city of Canada. No other
TJ.S. Consul in Sydney ever had half so
much work to do. For two years before his
country went into the war his position was
—welk delicate. After that, when practi-
cally all our communication with Europe
was via America, his work, if less delicate,
was enormously greater. During both
periods he did admirably; and his clever
wife helped him. Mr. Norton will be his
successor.
At the Rose Ball last week it was pink
roses all the way from the vestibule to the
red-carpeted dais where the committee
flanked the Cullen dame, who in grey geor-
gette gave the glad hand to nearly 40 white
tulle and satin misses. All hands knocked
off to view the ceremonial, and as the last
deb. stepped from the Presence and joined
her partner there was a storm of applause
from the gallery. The pillars had blos-
somed with plump roses, and festoons and
loops of equally healthy bTooms swayed over
the heads of the dancers; while rose-shaded
lights were kind to all.
The decorations were really charming, but
the making thereof apparently bereft the
committee of energy for anything further,
for the supper-room arrangements were the
last moan in barrenness. Never a chair in
the room, so that the people who breasted
the buffet had to stay there to rest plate or
cup, and the three-deep army behind supped
on glimpses of food or the occasional sand-
wich a front-rower handed over her shoulder.
It was rather a set-back, too, after the
issue of two supper coupons! However, the
Town Hall could scarcely accommodate the
dancers, so there should be a big cheque for
the Royal Hospital for Women.
But where is this presentation-ceremony
absurdity going to end? Where is the neces-
sity of beseeching social recognition for the
deb. by a neighbor’s wife who is probably
the most intimate friend of the girl’s mother
or who, even though one of our most exalted,
is somebody the youngster will meet before
her first season is over? Or has met anv
day for years and years past?
At eight o’clock two small boys stood
outside Sydney Town Hall —one, a man of
12 or thereabouts, held tliree-year-old bro-
ther as high as his arms would permit, and,
thus exalted, little brother glimpsed the)
go, l * the , “lustres” in the vestibule.
What they hoped to see, of course, were
some of the luckier kiddies who were en-
joying the kiddies’ Rose Ball from the in-
side. Only the night knows what splend'd
pageant Fancy painted for the tvo
bpys in the street; but round and round
within the hall, tivo by two, tired infants
were inarching, while grown-ur~, judged the
costumes. The only trade-union represented
was the butchers’, and the s J irdv young
representative of the profession, with his
tray and his overalls, carried off a prize.
I here were two admirals; Spring, with her
maidens, had received an invitation; Gaby
Deslys and the Bing Boys looked in, anil
so did a sweet blue convolvulus. But the
joy of the evening were the Wavbacks who
just humped their bluey and billy around
the ring and came up winners in the final.
There were Queens of Sheba, newsbovs. Pier-
rettes. a brown-paper parcel, and the tiniest
dove of Peace who every now and then got
turned topsy-turvy. Nellie Stewart, as Nell
Gwyn, and Dorrie Ward helped in awarding
the prizes, which Commodore Dumaresq
presented. There was a decorated scooter
parade in which one tiny competitor flew
round and round, evidently under the im-
pression that he was the Cup favorite and
the public had its money on him.
With supper-time the entente was almost
broken. Somebody tried to keep the mothers
out of the supper-room while their children
faced the danger of unlimited ice-creams.
An S.O.S. brought some committee women to
mother’s rescue, so the eviction order was
not enforced.
Here’s another Rose Ball story. An in-
vitation was sent to one of the military
hospitals for 100 patients and 12 sisters —
cars to be sent for the helpless. Ten of
the boys who w r ill never walk upright again
and helpless cases from the cot wards were
got out of bed, after an afternoon of excite-
ment spent in looking forward to their out-
ing. But. alas; only three cars called at the
hospital, and most of the poor old things, after
waiting and waiting, were left in the lurch,
missing a very good concert that was being
given at the hospital. This sort of treat-
ment is being constantly meted out to the
boys, and some of them are becoming very
bitter about the way their homeland folk
are treating them. “In England,” says a
sister, “Aussie invalids were given more out-
ings in one week than they jreceive here in
eight.”
Jean Morton and Major Little, D. 5.0.,
who have just got engaged, are among the
most popular young people in Sydney. She
is slim and dark, and the owner of a wonder-
ful complexion; and her clothes are the
despair of the suburbs. Major Little heard
the call simultaneously with Charles Orr,
and poor Will Laidley, both of them great
friends of his. He arrived in Egypt in time
for a spell on Gallipoli, but the Mortons had
left Cairo on their way back to Australia
before he and his reinforcements reached
that festive city.
A number of well-known men got back
last week. Major Les Willsallen, 1).5.0.,
fought on Gallipoli with the 7th Light
Horse, and has been all through the Pales-
tine disturbance. His handsome wife, who
was a Miss King, was at Shepheard’s, in
Cairo, after the Evacuation. His eldest
brother, who married his wife’s sister, died
the other day in America. The family owns
some of our biggest sheep-runs.
Major Humphrey Browning, who landed
the day after, was in the famous 13th;
after the Armistice he had a staff job in
the Flying Corps. He was badly wounded
twice; on the last occasion, in addition to
the wound which brought him down, he got
a bullet through his arm. He is a son of
R. J. Browning, the barrister, and is him-
self a lawyer. On the same ship was Cap-
tain D. A. Fowler, who did good work with
the 2nd (Artillery) Division in France. He
was a bank manager before he took to
soldiering.
Itania MacPhillamy, a daughter of the
Charles MacPhillamys, of Warroo station,
Forbes, is the girl who organised the Rest
Club at Jerusalem,
where she took over
the house of the
most prosperous Ger-
man inhabitant, put
curtains to the win-
dows, polished up
the knocker, and the
“home away from
home” that we read
about opened for the
Digger. She also is
the only woman in
the world who has
made a corner in tin-
ned tongue. Silently
and swiftly in one
onslaught upon Cairo
she bought up every
tinned tongue the city
held—£7so worth.
and that s how the Ivantara Club, at which
she labored with Mrs. Chisholm, could
proudly display “Iced Tongue and Salad” on
its food programme for many a long, hot
day.
.The McQuade family are having bad luck.
\\ ltlnn a year they lost George Innes—
husband of the youngest girl—and poor
« us ? , I > e A gwmj whom th ey idolised ; now
b red McQuade himself has died. In his
way lie was a great artist, and Ins musical
parties at Tarana delighted the little circle
that attended them.
One of the most cosmopolitan military
weddings on record occurred at St. Pat.’s,
Sydney, last week. The bridegroom, Frank
Loneragan, served in the R.A.F.; his best
man was in the A.1.F.; and the grooms-
man was in the R.F.C. And he was
married by his brother, Father (Major)
Loneragan, who was one of the best-liked
padres the 14th Battalion ever owned. The
bride was Miss Linda Barlow, of Wollstone-
craft, and her parents asked the quests to
Petty s after the wedding.
The fancy-dress supper-dance at Sargent's
didn't have the response which the quaint
invitation-cards and the Wentworth Kinder-
garten deserved. Something seemed to go
wrong with everybody’s costume, so the
graceful legs of Mollie Willoughby, which
were to have been encased in the black silk
tights of Harlequin, were hardly visible
under the swirl' of a black and gold frock.
The floor was crowded, but most of the dan-
cers wore swallow tails and decollete, wise
and otherwise. There was a young man
in a sombre cloak who might have been a
Corsican Brother or Philip of Spain; and
there was a girl with a good deal of scarlet
about her who might have been Carmen
after her Toreador had secured the film
royalties. Some of the girls from nearly
every show in town looked in after 11. Mrs.
Ferrari Passmore was at the helm, and a
very capable body of helpers manned the
ship.
A swamp behind; in front a stretch of
sand intersected by a railway line and the
canal—that was the outlook of the Kantara
canteen where Mrs.
Chisholm and Rania
MacPhillamy labored
for three splendid
years, with no diver-
sion but an occa-
sional, visit to Cairo.
In her early days
in Cairo, when she
was doing hospital
work, Mrs. Chisholm
used to look at the
soldier-boys drifting
about the streets of
that conglomerate
city and wish she
could provide some-
thing in the nature
of home-life for them.
Gradually the as-
piration unfolded
into the rest-room at Heliopolis, whose bread
and butter and hard-boiled eggs, buttered
toast and tea, became famed throughout
Egypt and drew the boys like a magnet.
Then the camps began to shift further back,
and Mrs. Chisholm applied for leave to
start a similar project at Kantara, which
had become the pivot of soldier-life in
Egypt. lied tape said “No, but why not
start at Port Said?” So on the beach at
Port Said arose a canvas settlement where
the boys could a hot meal at any hour.
But all the time Kantara was the far-seeing
war-worker’s goal. At this juncture soldiers’
friend Ettie Rout, whom nothing daunted,
primed herself in the law of the matter, and
with no by-your-leave dropped down on Kan-
tara with stores and an immense white
tent. In the midst of settling down she
contracted malaria, and one day Mrs. Chis-
holm received a note from the sick one ask-
ing her to take over the Rest Club for two
months. So it was that Mrs. Chisholm
reached her journey’s end.
At this point Rania MacPhillamy linked
up, and when a somewhat shaken Ettie Rout
returned the two dinkum Aussies took over
her equipment and stock. (No military grant
about it, either.) The Army allowed
them 38 orderlies, and gradually the canvas
structure gave place to wood huts, and floor-
ings of white stone were set upon the sand.
Before that every step sank the workers
ankle-deep in sand. Day and night the
monster stove was kept going, and at any
hour the boys could come in and be certain
of a good meal. The proudest achievement
of the camp was on the occasion when 1000
Maorilanders were served with breakfast.at
an hour’s notice —bacon, sausage or tomato
and eggs, bread and butter and tea, the
Homeric meal cooked by one man, a
Soudanese.
The breakfast bill-of-fare was always
much the same: bacon or sausage with eggs
six eggs per man! —bread and butter
and tea; and the charge, Is. The club
received no grants, but before it finished
operations it. had handed out sums varying
from £2OOO to £5OO to every Comforts Fund
in Egypt. Digger, Poilu, Tommy, Italian,
8.W.1.’5. Indians—all have had a meal at
“Mrs. _ Chisholm’s.” It was the most cos-
mopolitan caf6 of the war period. It was
a Mecca for the boy wea.ry with desert fight-
ing. It was the capability, the endurance,
the courage of two devoted workers. It was
the soul of the women of Australia !
In the misty blues and greys of Saturday,
Scarborough, the convalescent home for sol-
diers at Doll’s Point, received recognition
from her State Excellency. The local inhabi-
tants had turned up to cheer the speeches,
listen to a wordy telegram from W. M.
Hughes, and nod their approval of the splen-
did equipment of this Red Cross home. Mother
Earth and the embracing Pacific pour balm
about the peaceful spot.
The committee of the ball in aid of the
Crown-street Women’s Hospital has set its
face against official sets. You pay your half-
guinea and are as good as the next. For
an extra shilling you may obtain a souvenir
programme, and that will entitle you to a
chance in an Art Union, whose piizes in-
clude frillies, jewellery and peltry.
The cry of the housekeeper becomes more
pitiful, and the Y.W.C.A. has started an
employment and immigration department
as one of its side-lines. Mrs. Herring
is chairwoman of the new venture, which
aims at importing domestic help from Old
England. They are to be called the Home-
helpers’ corps, and a committee, on which the
McMillan and Anderson Stuart ladies figure,
is to draw up a working policy which will
give the domestic a new standing. The other
States are linking up, and there is a grow-
ing hope that in the years to come the lady
of the house won’t have to leave her washtub
to entertain their Exes., though there are
lots of people who don’t know why she
shouldn’t. Still, English girls in Australia
haven’t all proved blessings. Let us hope
for the best. The worst we have with us.
The smart, short skirts of dark and spark
ling Eileen Castles, straight from Americ'.
fluttered into Sydney last week. Eileen i-
to join up with the Grand Opera Co.
It is a much-bereaved Mrs. Georges Play-
oust who has returned to Sydney after
spending nearly all the war period in
France, where she and her husband had
gone to be close to their five soldier-sons.
Madame helped to found the Freneh-Aus-
tralian League of Help before she left, and
while in Paris she was a link between the
practical sympathy of Australia and the
sorrow of France. Two of her boys were
killed on service, and her husband died just
before the signing of the Armistice.
At 10 o’clock this (Thursday) morning
the vestibule of Her Majesty’s will be a
golden glory of daffodil and primrose. Forty-
thousand of the Springtime splendors have
been sent from Robert Pitt’s garden at
Wentworth Falls, and they will whisper a
wonderful story of how they all burst into
flame one early dawning to light the path
of Spring, who had almost been lost in the
valley mist. The money goes to swell the
funds of the Peace Offering Ball.
Fifty Maoriland soldier boys are going to
carry back word to the Windy Isles that
State Ex. Davidson is “kapai.” After the
St. John’s Ambulance Review he took them
to Government House for tea, and amazed
them by his intimate knowledge of every
engagement the Maorilanders had part in'.
Lady Davidson took a movette (which is a
diminutive movie) of the party, and caughl
one of the lads just as he was having a
bonser time with the vice-regal native-bear.
Lady Davidson has invested in her own
“movette” and is an efficient operator. She
is “canning shadows” everywhere, and says
that one of the chief charms of it is that she
will be able to give patients in hospital a
little show of her own. She secured a movette
for Jellicoe, and it is going to be delivered
at his first port of call in America.
The Kincumber Orphanage had its flut-
ter at Paddington Town Hall, where 700
people dropped a mite in the treasury.
Mrs. Le Maistre Walker, who is organis-
ing the Linen Gift Appeal for the Sydney
Hospital, is receiving support from every
quarter in cash or kind. There are already
miles of bandages that have been rolled by
the willing fingers of bandage-making girls
.The King’s School Old Boys’ dance pro
mises success that will be the foundation of
boatsheds and equipment, and enable the
School’s old rowing club to flash an oar in
the Public Schools’ Regatta. Sydney Town
Hall; Monday, 15th.
The Kindergartens are to have their dav
on Friday. Well-stocked stalls will rear
themselves all over the city. The day’s
souvenir badges take the form of a silver-
and-blue medallion designed by Eirene Mort
Captain Norman Packer, of the R.A.M.C..
who left Sydney with the first batch of doc-
tors in 1914, has been appointed to th-
military hospital at Kohat, India. He hopei
to get six months leave of absence to visit
Sydney first, though.
Lucille Benstead, who has been singing in
Shoreditch Olympia, a huge variety palace
in the East End of London, where Henry
Irving used to play before he captured the
West End, has got the right kind of press
agent at last. It was all very well fo:'
critics to talk of her voice, “strong, pure
and flexible that can soar to any heights,”
but that didn’t make such popular reading
as this:—
She was bom where lio other white girl was ever
born, her father being superintendent at a telegraph-
repeating station right in the centre of the Australian
nush. She became famous a 3 the Goldfields Pet, and il
was no unusual thing for her to go to the heads of
the shafts at midnight and sing to a crowd of 500
miners fresh from their work.
The telegraph station on the Overland is all
right, of course; but the 500 miners coming
off shift at midnight, and listening to Lucille,
do the press-agent credit.
Audrey-Chirnside Pape is in Sydney on a
visit, and intends to stay over the Spring
races. The Tom Dixsons have lent her
their flat at Stratlikyle.


'ft
7 • -J i /A-
-&
'T.*
\ n
* x if
✓i<yi
S*
<£
n
% *> An
a?»?
v<
; ~• »: r ;<* ** *:-v.* »;.;*>.*•&, 3s -'V «'2S
<8 * -
r i
rfe
&g
~¥ws ;
c^v
p-n.lftr
ira
bx
VVv
\ •„ > r ■' >< ,;■ ' V
.s’-^yy-SiSj
«. - ,'i3
'■V r'
Vi
j? \ •;• 9 f-&gf*
'• ' c ,l
•> " • i >
;#k
r
j]
Sv»>*
r.fctf
-raU
V v -A*
■fis3
*&r
V <
l®i
4p
©3
a®
m
.!*•:
5-' \*is''£->'
' • 5 Vrf *• •/.*
V. 1. .s* *A
k.-'y
tfB&IS
: • V 3.-54
» a :...» 7.S
; ' VsV*s|
* •VC -iM
v';>v t v *
,&i f.HI
•«**o^
r;
/ V3r*:-a«
. Ory '
••OS < ■; &S
'- ».-/(. > AS
3B
52® o*
1
s%
n
u
SJ
ATM
fel
m
..wit.
i^V-A
i
»*<<
» <. ..W v4l i\/„ j(x tfw.SWSr Wifi
<‘»^W
" «‘ | Aa£>’
X *
f-V
«! J:. -1
&*>*•*
r \m
WSi&S%£!Z3gBeS3&J
—
..‘vV - 'TI rill if «i,##
rs; l
f.r r 'V
?V S / : ' •'/.;• ;c<, /
•\'-WrO\'&
cvy.4 j ?; JM
5?a»15
V.ft
rs
vJV'.rf'
si
t|» I
y<*.
i/f v^'Vififc vr
mwm
m
l|M
«sn;
*
;%§il
yV
Sr.
I®
■#jr«
g 36
Sr-r
IllPSilPi
5«
vi:
PHI.. /I?
%
2^m
Price £450
COLONIAL BODY.
Choose An Overland
Hie great Overland range of models includes a car for
practically every need of motoring.
And the popularity of Overland cars is due to five distinct advan-
tages appearance, performance, comfort, service and price .
Here we show the famous Model 90, a car light enough
to be very 4 mobile,” yet heavy enough to hold the road easily;
powerful, easy to drive and easy to ride in.
Investigate this Model 90 at your early convenience. Then,
with hundreds of thousands of other people, you will choose
an Overland
Immediate Delivery.
WILLYS-OVERLAND, Inc.
17C2 Toledo, Ohio, U. S. A.
Australian Distributors—
GARRATTS LTD., Sydney
KELLOW-FALKINER PTY. LTD., Melbourne
AUTO-CARS LTD., Adelaide
EAGER & SON, Brisbane
ANDERSON & ADAMS LTD., Perth
H. G. HEATHORNE & CO. LTD., Hobart.
A. HATRICK & CO., Wanganui, N.Z.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION
Christchurch, N.Z.


m
■/ /
Australian
Collars for You
COLDIERS returning
to “dotes” after 2,
3, or 4 years’ service
usually find the clothes
they left behind too small
now. Especially collars.
Go to your Mercers, men,
and buy Australian-made Pelaco
Collars. They’re comfortable. In
quality and appearance they are
not matched. And they take
laundry punishment—lots of it.
COLLARS
Buv also
Piiaco
fcDE
R?>
Shirts and
Pyjamas
“THERE’S MONEY IN THE PEN."
€'l
w&
M
Thu above
is the title!
of our book-
let, which
tells about
the possibilities
of Drawing —both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
by HARRY J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
difference between
learning' to COPY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided, by the
beginner. It ex-
plains, in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
penny stamps
to-day for a
copy of this
booklet—
“THEßE’S
MONEY
IN
THE HARRY J, WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
146 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY.
ESTERBROOK’S
PENS.
■pvEW of ns are entirelv satisfied with the daily
r P en ' ve use. Write ESTERBROOK, Box
{>B G.P.0., Sydney, and send 21d. in stimps
for cost of postage on free samples.
AGNES PLATT,
4 Manchester St., London, W. England.
Advice given on plays, novels, cinemas.
Manuscripts placed. Plays produced.
Correspondence course in stage, novel
and cinema technique^
Hotel c/e Luxe.
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
Hie Healthiest and most Beautiful' Spot on
the Harbor. As warm in Winter as the South
of France.
Recommended by the Minister for Health and
the Medical Faculty. Finest Cuisine 110
and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Beautiful Beaches,
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths,
Fishing.
Tariff, from 12/6 per day, or
£3/10/- per week.
Tels.: Y3OOl, 3002.
Apply Manager.
'
w
THE
WINTON.’
The Perfect
WINTON.
The “Winton” Stock Saddle is with-
out doubt the most comfortable high-
pad stock saddle made. Note how the
flap is seamed direct on to the seat,
doing away with a skirt, and giving a
narrow, non-chafing grip. Then note the
position of the pads, high up along
the rider’s thighs, giving perfect
security. The flaps are long and the
panel has broad leather points down
each side, extending beyond the flaps.
The tree is our own “Fouright” tree,
with steel plating and steel stirrup
bars. The fittings included are folded
girth, bevelled leathers and solid
nickel, 3-bar stirrups.
£137:6
Freight Free for
Cash to anyN.S.W.
Port or Station on
the N.S.W. Railway System.
Send your height and
with order. Write for our tine Catalogue—l3o
Buyers in other States, write for Special freight terms.
weigiit
pages.
Walther 8 Stevenson Ltd.,
SADDLERS, C 4
393 George St., oydliey.
<3
as
m,
THE
moa
Self-
Heating
IRON
is the very latest benzine-burning laundry
help. The iron without a pump—no in-
tricate parts to get out of order. Use clean
benzine, strain it through a chamois, which
it runs through as water does through
muslin, and you’ll have no trouble.
ASK TO SEE IT.
In SYDNEY—AIex. Smith Ltd.
V. Lassetter & Co. Ltd.
Mark Toy's Ltd.
Nock & Kirby Ltd.
The Civil Service Stores.
In BKISKANE—Barry & Roberts.
In PERTH—William Sandover & Co.
Or the Agents will send it to any add ess in Aus-
tralia, post paid, on receipt of 30/-
Atldress-—-“Royal Iron,” Box 98 G.P.0.,
Sydney.
oID.JS*
CAPTAIN COOK
5 ~%e Sanest SpJrft in (2uslm//an c f//siom
DRY GIN
Bracing as the Breezes
that brought the
“Endeavour” to Botany
I I
r/>|
M
Mil/
I
, //
ALWAYS LOOK'FOR CAPTAIN COOK
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.
POV
Works i Birmingham, Enjsrla.net.
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting- Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
Returned Soldiers’ Medals.
We have supplied large quantities of Medals for presentation
to our returned heroes.
We found joy in designing and making them, some with special
local features and of symbolic merit.
Our bravest deserve the best.
We have used brains and money and effort to give it.
Local committees have recognised our efforts to produce lasting
mementoes of the greatest years of a returned man’s life.
Illustrations and prices forwarded with pleasure.
Special discounts to public presentation committees.
Fairfax & Roberts, Ltd.,
Plain Figures.
Cash only.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 & 25 Hunter Street
Solid Gold, 9ct., large size, 27/6
Solid Gold, 9ct., small size, 21 /-
Solid Gold, 15ct., large size, 47 /6
Solid Gold, 15ct., small size, 38/-
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
A'o notice {except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Xante and address must appear on the MSS. Xo
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Brumby Jack : Write to Angus and Robert-
son, Sydney.... P.C.: Don’t know ; a long argument
raged round the subject for some weeks until it was
swallowed up in the w.p.b J. Ashton: (1) That
proclamation was printed in The Bulletin early in
the war. (2) Glad to read anything else from
there... .W.D.W.: “The Lonely Bird” deserves its
fate if it can’t sing better... .Ida D.: Sorry, doesn’t
thrill U5....L.E.A.: Horrible yarn told at too great
length H.K.: “Mad Song” deserved better hand-
ling... .G.E.M.: There is nice stuff in “Spring,” but
it is spoiled by the wobbling... .W. 11.8.: Not enough
in “Blue Bloods” G.L.T.: “The Strike Breaker”
is an old story and only half true... .Doddsie:
Write 20 more yarns, striving for strength and
clarity, and try us with a 21st M.C. (Dongola) :
Some poetry in it and a lot of promise, but the
verse wants more attention.... Dave: Well, what’s
the trouble about? Don’t you still “allege” it to be
Scotch? M.F. (8.H.): Can’t find much “origi-
nality” about it, and certainly no “poetry”....
J. : The last stanza should be immortal: —
It’s well I do remember
The year ’9O in November,
When Carbine won the Melbourne Cup
And lumbered ten stone five;
But his deeds are now forsaken,
And unless that I’m mistaken,
No horse will win next Melbourne Cup
Carrying over nine stone five.
....Alan B.: The sonnet is well enough con-
structed, but the lines don't matter 1’.0.R.: A
bit crude W.J. (Sea Lake): Stuff in it, but re-
quires writing... .lan 11.: Yarn lacks interest....
K. (Lidcombe): Not up.... Darby: “North Shore
Flats” turns a yarn on a very small point....
Sparklets: Shocking Gaz: Pretentious stuff which
says too little Kemo: Nothing there 11.J.E.:
Get to grips with something real and new....
Ami (St. James): “The Onlooker” doesn’t strike
us 8.F.H.: Not up.... Leo S.: Not forceful
enough W.J.D.: “Pilgrim’s Progress” a bit over-
worked E.G.C.: Not much in writing verses
about what you ought to sing if you don’t get
ahead and sing something Faster Age: Nothing.
I.G. (Gladesville): Follows a track with sft.
ruts in it... .E.J.T.: Not up....lsabel M.: What’s
the use of saying the old things over and over
again in commonplace verse ?.... Harriet C.: Not
well enough done Nora F.: Pretty enough; but
there is not body in it to outweigh the absence
of rhyme... .Anchorite: Du11....8ea D.: Doesn’t if
strike you that the grace of the fantail deserves
something better than heavy moralising?.. . .Quelques
Mots: Nothing in the yarn... .Richie: Come in and
take a scat: —•
There is a land, a glorious land.
Where the sun for ever doth shine,
Though tlie - women wear little,
And the dickie-birds twittle
There’s plenty to cause one to whine.
It is the land of the Southern Star,
Australia, Australia by name,
Where brave men are bred,
And their children are fed
On politics by men of great fame.
Australia, the land of the free,
Where the capitalist grows very fat,
And the worker he strikes,
Led by men they call Mikes,
Till there’s nothing for this or for that.
... .P.S. (Harlaxton) : Slight yarn on a very old sub-
ject Rita M.: Don’t care for “The Hour”
: “Delville Wood” not up R.W.G.: Re-
minds us of a pound of profiteering sausages
E.C.M.: “Hope” says the same old thing in the
same old way.... A.W.8.: It makes us sad.... 11.8.
(Boorowa): Write U 3 something as unlike that as
you can.... J.8.G.: You can’t rhyme “town” with
“around” in this paper... .D.P.M.: Not up....
Eric F.: Misses,.. .A.H.Y.: There’s color and music
in it. Now improve the workmanship Wottong:
Poor stuff on an overworked subject F.C.8.: “The
Bush Girl” y r ou met while gathering daffodils is too
hard to believe. If you had been picking up
padymelons it might have been different
A.W.V.K.: Not at the half-way house yet Naomi
T.: Wild verse that doesn’t mean anything G.B.
(Melb.): Verses get to nowhere Fanuela: The
prose is better than the verse, but it misses....
Af.8.8.: Some force, but don’t care for any cf
them.... Elsie R.M.: Not w hat we want, but you
might' sell it elsewhere... .J.W.G.: Can’t do any-
thing with it. (P.S. —On second thoughts we can
hand it to the Archbishop.) The End: Sorry; it’s
sunk.... Garaha: Aou might be able to tell a story,
but you can’t write it Eleanor: Well, off you go:
I\ hat of the home, and the peace of soul
That we loved to think upon?
Where is rest now we’ve reached the goal?
Must our souls keep moving on?
T.F.C.: You’re right about “My Shattered Idol.”
• ...Allie S.: (1) Blame Webster. (2) “The Piping”
has a poor note. Even the N. S. Wales Treasury
couldn’t float it... .F.D.M.: Better give it best....
Sparkeleto: Both destroyed. Now return us
thanks 1.M.: Send “Modesty” to the Girls’ Own
Annual J.C.M.: Returned promptly as re-
quested A.M.D. (or something like that) : Pain-
ful. No stamp attached, but you can call and take
it away.... Alice W.: That’s nothing new.... Val
Verde: Try it somewhere else.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
N.N.S.: The remark that the spectral small boy is
making to the ghostly girl doesn’t entertain us.
Improve your drawing a lot B.B.: The girl who
is doing her hair has tangled arms... .S.H.: One
of those humorous drawings that make readers shud-
der... .A.S.R.: Extra-mild jest M.J.M.: You can’t
wash all your artistic sins away.... J.0.11.N.: A
word of advice —and take it as kindly as you can.
Don t describe yourself as an artist until you know
something about art... .V.J.: It wouldn’t cheer any-
body up 11.W.A.: Would you expect to compete
successfully with trained plumbers if you had never
learnt how to mend a tap? Art is nearly as difficult
as plumbing... .O.B.: You’ve the wrong taste in
chestnuts, and you cannot draw.. •. A.E.: Nursery
art James F.: Take away your dog Titian:
Choose another name and do a few years’ hard study'.
D.E.M.: Rough drawings, and the ideas behind them
are not brilliant McII.: Can’t use.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE.
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
I.uxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
r iirate Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding _ sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.— City 4246, 2, 4. 6 Spring Street,
«io! Sydney.
Sydney to England
via
the Allied Route,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, OCTOBER S.
SONOMA.
10,QUO Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Telephone: City 2282. 44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. !
thinking. Public Companies, Ac.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capita), £1,000,000.
Directors: The lion. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY. I
Kt. (Chairman); WILLIAM DAVIES; E. I-I.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ; Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, !
IC.C.M.G.; lion. A. J. TIIYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager : J. MACKENZIE LEES. I
Head Oftice: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street. I
.Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1803.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. 091,850 10 0
Reserve Fund .. 272,000 0 0
interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,009 4 5
All new business since 1S!)S specially protected.
Directors —Geo. I’.dwd. Running, Esq. (Chairman) ;
lion. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq.;
W. H. Hart, Esq. ; Joseph Hughes, Esq., 1.5.0.
General Manager—\V, V. RALSTON.
HUAI) HI I ICE - - - ISKISHANH j
It ranches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queens In ml.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
Anierioa. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £lOO,OOO
Directors : HERBERT It. LYSAGHT, Esq., Chairman ;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LL.D. ; FRANK N. YAR-
WOOD, Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon.
F. JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.; DUNCAN CARSON.
Esq.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Chief inspector for
Queensland: J. N. 11. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finnev.
LONDON (37 Threadneedie Street, E.C,).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 146 Places throughout New South Wales
an n Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up 1,000.000
Uncalled Capital . . . . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,490,224
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts all other usual Banking
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
business.
MACDONALD.
HAMILTON $ CO.
Managing Agents for
Australasian United Steam Navigation Cu„.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co. Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates Ltd.
Blackheath Collieries Limited.
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Shipping, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, October.
R.M.S. MAKURA, November.
The most beautiful Scenery in the AVorld —the Canadian Rockies—is on the All-Red Route.
The Prairies, the Great Lakes, Chicago, Niagara Falls and New Vork can all be visited.
Through bookings to all Canadian, United States and Kuropean points.
Stop-overs on the Railways Arranged.
CALL OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS OF THIS ROUTE.
PASSENGERS CAN CHANGE AT HONOLULU INTO A DIRECT STEAMER FOR
SAN FRANCISCO.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco.via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through hookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 269 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
ISLAND TOURS.
Now is the Time to Visit the PACIFIC ISLANDS.
DELIGHTFUL TOURS to
NORFOLK ISLAND and NEW HEBRIDES.
SOLOMON ISLANDS.
PAPUA and RABAUL.
Trips of Four, Five and Seven Weeks’ Duration.
BURNS, PHILP 8 CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Vuid-up Capital
Reserve l*'unil
Reserve Liability
Pi rectors:
£3,912,440
£3.100,000
£3,912,440
£10,924,880
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MaclCellar, IC.C.M.U.,
M.L.C., President.
F, B. S. Falkiner, Esq., M.H.It.
The Hon. Reginald .T. Black, M.L.C.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; A. G. Milson, Esq.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
General Manager: Sir John Russell French, K.15.E.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
340 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to; and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Buis
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout O’cJVVorld.
Commonwealth
ißank-Biwtralia
SYDNEY.
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking: Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain),
also London (2), and A.I.F. Camps in England.
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and SAVINGS BANK AGENCIES at 2776 Post Offices
throughout Australia, Papua, New Britain, Solomon Islands,
and The Pacific.
JAMES KELL, DENISON MILLER,
Deputy Governor 1919 Governor
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1831.
Capital paid up £2,382,018 15 0
Reserve Fund - £2,120,000 0 0
Reserve Capital £2,500,000 0 0
£7,002,018 15 0
Directors:
G. J. Coben, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Most s,
J. TV*. Macarthur Onslow, Esq.
O. E. Friend, Esq.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
and
London Branch: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C.
London Bankers— The Bank of England; The London County, Westminster
Parr’s-Bank. Limited; Barclays Bank, Limited.
and agents and correspondents throughout the world.
Shipping:.
I
Sydney Inter-State
Sub-Committee.
Huddart Parker LiM
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND.—ReguIar Bail-
ings between Sydney and Melbourne to. New Zealand
portH and vice Versa ,* particulars to be obtained on
application. _ ,
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA. — From Sydney io
Hobart and vice versa every tlirce weeks. Between
Melbourne and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; George Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE FINE TWIN-SCREW STEAMER
“LEVUKA,” 6500 tons,
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney. . . , . , , ...
The “Levuka” is fitted with wireless and with
every modern convenience for the comfort of passen-
ff °The round journey from Melbourne occupies 20
days, and from Sydney 18 days. Passengers desiring
a more extended tour can travel by S.S. Amra,
which connects at Suva.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street,
Melbourne, or Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
1 Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
lAYKISD.' RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY. COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
io include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
i hence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwilluinbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £ 6 11s.; second-class rail and steerage on
steamer, £4 ss.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST.. SYDNEY.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
Favorite Mail Route to Japan, with connections
at Japan to
EUROPE AND AMERICA.
Tours can be arranged to China, Japan, Korea,
by this Line.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN.
Via Brisbane, Townsville, Thursday
Island, Zamboanga, Manila, Hongkong,
Nagasaki, Kobe and Yokohama.
SPECIAL NOTICE.-—All Passengers proceeding to
JAPAN must have their Passports vised by the Con-
sul-General for Japan in accordance with the regula-
tions of the Japanese Government
Full particulars of Sailing Dates, Passage Money,
Freights, etc., apply
BURNS, PIIILP AND COMPANY, LTD.,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1885.)
SYDNEY OFFICE: 105 PITT STREET.
Paid-up Capital .. • • • • £600,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. •. 570,000
£1,070,000
Uncalled capital .. .. • • 125,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . 625,000
£1,820,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 85 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
After reading, will you please send this paper to
the Red Cross Book, Magazine and Newspaper Depot,
5 Wynyard Street, Sydney, or place it in one of the
receptacles provided for the purpose. All copies thus
received are divided equally between the Red Cross
Society ar.d the War Chest Fund, and are posted
weekly to our soldiers abroad.


Edison Blue Amberol
Records for August.
Many particularly fine items —vocal and instrumental —•
are included this month. Madam Blanche Arral —who
years ago made a successful tour of Australia —gives to
“Mignon” all the vivacity and lightness which this
number calls for. It is a most charming record, as is
also the other Concert record—“ Marseillaise” (French
National Anthem), in which you will never forget the
powerful, vibrant tones of Thomas Chalmers as he rings
this most gripping of melodies.
“Break the News to Mother” (G. W. Ballard), “On the
Banks of Brandywine” (W. Van Brunt), “Battle Song
of Liberty” (N.Y. Military Band), and the second record
of “Dixieland Memories” will be in great demand.
Select yours at once.
Blue Amberol Concert Records.
25120 —Mignon-Polonaise—Je
Soprano, in French.
s Titania !
Blanche Arral
28289—Marseillaise (French National Anthem).
Baritone, orch. aec.
Thomas Chalmers and Chorus
Amberol Regular Records.
3413—Dixieland Memories—No. 2. Orch. acc.
Orpheus Mule Chorus
3429—Victory! Easter Carol.
Mixed voices, orch. acc. Carol Singers
3436 Break the News to Mother.
Tenor, orch. acc.
George Wilton Ballard and Chorus
3437 Someone is Waiting for You.
Male Voices, orch. acc. Shannon Quartet
3447 When Yankee Doodle Learns to Parlez
Vous Francais. Orch. ace.
Arthur Fields and Chorus of Girls
3448 I'll Take You Home Again, Kathleen.
Violin, Violoncello, Flute and Harp.
Venetian Instrumental Quartet
3449 Glow-worm. imperial Marimba Band
3450 Wasatch Fox trot—for Dancing.
Jaudas’ Band
3451 — Silver Threads Among the Gold.
, Soprano, orch. acc.
Elizabeth Spencer and Chorus
3454 Hush-a-Bye, Ma Baby (Missouri Waltz).
Contralto and Tenor, orch. acc.
Marion Evelyn Cox and Vernon Dalhart
3455 Longing for My Dixie Home.
Tenor, orch. acc.
Harvey Hindermeyer and Chorus
3456 —Further It Is from Tipperary—Odds and
Ends of 1917. Orch. acc.
Billy Murray and Chorus
3458 Unde Tom’s Cabin —A Dream Picture.
Edison Concert Band
3459 Just a Voice to Call Me, Dear —The
Riviera Girl. Soprano, orch. acc.
Gladys ltice and Male Chorus
3400 —Battle Song; of Liberty March.
New York Military Band
3461 —“Old Timers” Waltz—for Dancing.
Jaudas' Society Orchestra
3464 Elephant and the Fly.
Piccolo and Bassoon, orch acc.
Weyert A. Moor and Benjamin lvohon
3465 — On the Banks of the Brandywine.
Tenor, orch. acc. (vocal obligato by
Elizabeth Spencer). Walter Van Brunt
3466 Whistling Coon.
Edward Meeker and Empire Vaudeville Co.
3467 — Work, for the Night is Coining; and
Jesus Saviour, Pilot Me. Sacred, orch. acc.
Metropolitan Quartet
3468 — a A Little Love, a Little Kiss.
Tenor, orch. acc. Ralph Errolle
3469 Magic of Your Eyes. Tenor, orch. acc.
George Wilton Ballard
3471 —American Aviation March.
Creatore and his Band
THOMAS A. EDISON. LTD. (Wholesale only), 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
Waterman’s
(Ideal) ,
FountainPeii
mm
Sfc/
m
WTc. ■
1/
irS
©SB
mm
l :
yftfiv
iT\
down plainly
in Ink
f Pencil notes become blurred, inde-
cipherable. Ink is permanent. A
Waterman’s Ideal is as convenient to
use as a pencil, just as fast to write
with, just as smooth. Why not make
yourself a present of one to-day? It
will last you a lifetime and give
you plenty of help and abundance
of pleasure all the time.
“Pocket Self - Fi’lmg*,'* “Safety,"
“Regular. ” O Stationers & Jewellers,
L. G. SLOAN, Ltd.,
Cheapen Center
London, Eng and.
Australia :
H.*roi.d D. Dixon,
v 105, Clarence St.,
Sydney.
For your Infant or Invalid
Benger’s Food is appetising and delicious. Even the fresh new
milk used to prepare it is made lighter and easier to digest !
In the tin one food may look like another, but there the
resemblance of any other food to Benger’s ends. You prepare
Food
in a way different from others ! Fresh new milk is always
used, and in a few minutes (see directions) both the Food and
the milk become blended into a dainty cream by a gentle first
process of digestion, self-contained in the Food.
To this, and to its great nutritive power, Benger’s owes its
unique position as “ the Food the Doctor orders. ”
Benjrer’s Food is entirely British in origin, ownership, and manufacture. It is sold in tins
by Chemists, etc., everywhere. Carefully follow the directions on the tin when prepaiing it.
Booklet and full particulars post free from :
BENGER'S FOOD, LTD., MANCHESTER, England
BRANCH OFFICE: 11 7 , Pitt Street, SYDNEY
And at New York (U.S.A.) 90, Beekman St. Depdts throughout CANADA.
I=o
IPLES
that are reliable and accurate.
We carry the finest range in Australia
“A marvel at the price.”
81. Steven’s Little Scout Single-
shot Rifle, 22 calibre, 18in.. round steel
barrel; open rear and knife-edged front sights.
Weight, about 2Alb
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/3 ; other States, 2/2.)
22 6
m
“Splendid jor all small game."
1131. Marlin Repeating Rifle, 1897 Model,
24in. octagon or round barrel, 22 calibre rim fire,
magazine takes 25 short, 20 long, or IS long rifle cartridges, case-
hardened receivers, fitted with sliding rear sights;
weight silb. takedown Freight paid,
£.6
WE REPAIR ALL KINDS of
Guns, Rifles, Revolvers,
First-class Workmanship. Lowest Charges.
A.U;«
. ... !
"Simple and extra .strong in construction."
lUO. Winchester Single-shot Rifle, 1904 Model for ""
short or long rim lire cartridges, 21in. heavy round steel barrel
plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight; length of rile
- I fn a7 * l * n V b ? n . d fr °! ,r x wlth patent alloyed tip
which will not tarnish; weight, about 41b ' 1
(Postage—N.S.W., 2/-; other States, 3/8.)"
45/-
"Suitable for small game and target shooting
U 5. Stevens’ Visible Loading Repeating
ltifle, 22 calibre; magazine holds 15 short, 13
long or 11 long rifle cartridges, mixed or separate; 20in. round barrel
length over all, 35in.; weight 4ilb. ; slide action, blade
front and screwrear sights Freight paid,
65/-
Owing to market fluctuations prices here quoted are subject to change
without notice.
“Shoots with guaranteed accuracy.”
BIS. Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906
Model, 16-shot. 20in. round barrel, plain trigger,
straight grip, ladder rear sights, slide action, handles 22
short, long, or long rifle cartridges; weight, about sflb. ..
Freight paid,
9 51-
“EVER READY” PA ™ T
CIGARETTE MAKER
Simple and durable. Nothing to get out of order.
Full instructions with each one. pgJQg Scl POST FREE
“J suitable treapon for the boy."
82. Stevens’ Marksman Rifle, 22 calibre, R.F.,
round barrel. 20in., chambered for long rifle cart-
ridges, case-hardened frame, oiled walnut stock, open
front and rear sights; weight, 41b.
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
IS
3 51-
One of the hardest-hitting 22 cal. rifles on the market.
839. Remington Automatic Ham merles s
Rifle, Model lfiA, 22 calibre, take-down action, length of barrel
inches. Magazine holds 15 cartridges. Weight silb
Freight paid,
£7/10/-
ttm
sN v '
814. Winchester Repeating Rifles,
Model, 25/20-, 38-, 44-calibre, central fire, full
half magazine, 24in. barrel; weight, about 71b.
With Hound Darrel Freight paid,
With Octagon Barrel Freight paid,
816. Winchester Repeating Carbines, 1892 Model,
25/20-, 32-, 38- or 44-calibres, central fire, full or half magazines,
20in. round barrel, weight about 511 b Freight paid,
1892
Illustrated Firearms and Sports List Post Free to any address.
£5/15/-
£6
£5/10/-
1C
Australia's greatest
SPORTS OUTFITTERS'
AND TOBACCONISTS
n
City Sports Depot
99 King St also at
Newcastle d Brisbane j


Miss LUCILLE HURTER-JOSAS,
a delightful little Rexona girl.
(From a photo.)
/ :s
! i
*
j.’i.
:
'
Xitmm
*.
Little Lucille Hunter-Jonas is a charming young Australian who is now appearing at
the Palace Theatre, Sydney, so be sure and see her. Lucille’s mother writes us the follow-
ing letter in praise of Ilexona Soap:—
Palace Theatre,
Dear Sirs,— Sydney.
I was told by some of my friends at the above how good your Rexona Soap was,
and I was determined to try it on my little daughter Lucille’s hair, and 1 am most
pleased to tell you that the result has been marvellous. She was troubled a little
with dandruff, so 1 first rubbed just a little ol’ the Rexona in, and then shampooed
the hair with Rexona Soap. The result was that the hair was soft, glossy and silky.
Lucille thinks the world of your soap, and I am sure never again will either of us
use any other soap than Rexona.
I have found your Rexona most excellent as a healer, and I can conscientiously
recommend Rexona and Rexona Soap to everyone who is desirous of caring for the
hair and complexion.
Lucille says she is a true Rexona Girl, and I am sure she is, too.
Very sincerely yours,
(Mrs.) C. HUNTER-JONAS.
Girls! Beautify Your Hair.
Do you know that in less than ten minutes you can double the beauty of youri
hair? It becomes light, wavy, fluffy, abundant, and appears as soft, lustrous and
charming as anyone could desire, after a simple wash with Rexona Soap. A delight-
ful surprise awaits those whose hair lias been neglected, or is scraggy, dry, brittle or
thin. Rexona Soap cleanses the hair of all dust, dirt or excess oil, ami in a few
moments you have doubled the beauty of your hair. Rexona Soap dissolves every
particle of dandruff, cleanses, purifies and invigorates the scalp, for ever stopping
itching and falling hair. If you care to have pretty hair,
and lots of it, get a tablet of Rexona Soap to-day.
Ilexona Soap, 1/- per tablet.
Rexona the Rapid Healer, 1/6 and 3/-
SKIN & FACIAL SOAP
M
y
s
r
Westclox
Alarm 1
Made by
Western Clock. Co.
Salle
111.
US
C lhe tag on good alarm clocks
'Y'HERE are two sure ways to
identify a good alarm clock:
the name Westclox on the dial
and the orange and buff West-
clox tag attached to the ring.
When you find these quality
marks you know your new alarm
clock is a good timekeeper, the
kind you need in times like these.
All Westclox alarms have the patented
Westclox construction. They all run on
time and ring on time.
Western Clock Co. - makers of Westclox
La Salle, 111.. U S. A.
Factories at Peru. lli.
To Pierrette.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
TT7 HAT do I care for your masques
m V .'i nd balls,
T T For your gatherings gay and your
carnivals ?
1 follow you there, when you bid me come,
To lean in the doorways, aloof and glum,
And only I smile in a weary way
When you spare me a glance in the midst of
play.
I watch you caper and pirouette—
Ah, you dance like a sprite in love, Pier-
rette !
A stranger I in your madcap throng,
1 care not for dancing and wine and song;
Too faery and fast for my clumsy feet
Are the lilting measures your toe-tips beat;
Little I see in the wine’s rich red
Save vice invited and virtue Hod ;
Only the folly of fools I see
In the gold wine’s transient gaiety.
Men pay their court to your mocking eyes
And I—-I swallow my jealousies.
Under the lights, in the whole world’s face,
You sway to the dance in a man’s embrace;
Laughing, you yield to a man’s caress.
'Fore God, whence rises my bitterness
When I know those kisses are feather-light,
When mine alone is the lover’s right?
I love you dearly, when all be said,
When your eyes are bright and your cheeks
hush red,
When you frolic and fool as I cannot dare
In your wanton moods that I cannot share.
Laugh, through the smoke of your cigar-
ette —
I love you for better or worse, Pierrette!
* * * *
Hut I love you best on our own hearth-
stone
With the world locked out and we two alone.
N.S.W.
HAROLD THIRKELL.
The Assassin.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
blaze of glittering gold; the masses
| of rich purple ; the bars of metallic
red, glowing like slag from the fur-
naces of Hell; the filmy wreaths of grey
vapor, and tender rose-pink cloudlets high
above; the sullen, black-browed storm-
clouds rolling up from the southward; the
wondrous changing colors that make the
gorgeous panorama of a western sunset —all
were fading swiftly. The sheets of bur-
nished gold changed to tongues of red. Even
as you watched they became pillars of
glowing bronze. Awhile they stayed; then
the bronze pillars swayed, and crumbled
and melted into swirling billows of pink and
pearl that broke and blended with the mourn-
ful grey of the coming dusk.
The horseman, riding steadily along the
dusty road, glanced casually at the glowing
skies. “Dry lookin’ sunset,” he muttered.
“Wonder if it means a drought.”
For a few moments he rode along in
silence, gazing at the line of timber ahead.
“Ought to be water about here somewhere,”
he growled.
His quick eyes caught the flicker of a
flame far ahead, and, leaning forward in the
saddle, he spoke to the tired horses. “Come
on, lads,” he said; “one more canter and
then we’ll camp.”
Half a mile away the flames danced and
beckoned with the gay, welcoming gleam of
a newly-kindled camp-fire. A belt of scrub
close beside promised well for a plentiful
supoly of firewood ; while the camp-fire itself
was a sufficient indication that he might
reasonably expect to find water —probably
a gilgai—in the vicinity. For the horses
he had already noted an abundance of good,
though dry. feed.
As he cantered up to the fire a man, bear-
ing on his shoulder a fair-sized log, stag-
gered from the scrub and dropped his bur-
den on a heap that had already assumed
respectable proportions. The new-comer
observed the heap appreciatively. A swag,
not yet unrolled, lay at a little distance. As
its owner cast the log from his shoulder
the horseman called to him genially : “Any
chance o’ boilin’ my quart at your fire,
mate?”
He had expected a rough welcome. In-
stead, he received a reluctant permission,
given with an accent which, in the opinion
of the new arrival, proclaimed the speaker
a “ Dago.”
To the nationality of his chance-com-
panion Brady attached little importance.
His wanderings had taught him that the
fashion of a man’s speech was not much of
an index to his character. What did con-
cern him to a slight extent was the man’s
evident disinclination to share his fire. Not
over-scrupulous in his dealings (especially
if the things in which he dealt had been
provided with four legs by a beneficent
Providence) he was, nevertheless, regarded
among his mates as “thin-skinned.” His
company, he considered, was good enough
for any man—or woman either, for that
matter. And now —to be permitted with
reluctance and suspicion to sleep by the
camp-fire of a Dago! Brady qualified the
term. In fact, in his mental processes, he
qualified it in many ways.
For a while he thought of making a fire
for himself; but, having obtained permission
to use the one already kindled, he disliked
the idea. As for going on—he had already
come far, and he had no notion how many
miles ahead the next water might be.
Suddenly he swung himself to the ground
and slipped the saddles from the backs of
the tired horses, now and again glancing,
with contemptuous inquiry, at the perturbed
countenance of his chance acquaintance. The
man’s embarrassment was obvious, yet for
the life of him Brady could think of no-
thing to account for it.
As he walked to the shallow waterhole
to fill his quart he half-regretted that he had
let the horses go; but, after all, lie reflected,
there was nothing to marvel at because a
man acted peculiarly in the presence of a
stranger. Plenty of men—good fellows, too
—were at their worst in such circumstances;
and, anyhow, this cove was only a Dago,
so too much could not be expected of him.
When he returned to the camp the stranger
appeared more at his ease. While they
waited for the quarts to boil he became en-
thusiastic on the subject of Brady’s horses.
“Da grran’ ’orse. signor,” he announced.
"Taka da moehe lhonee buya heem?” He
eyed the horses with a critical air. “You
feed-a da corn, signor? Brush-a da ’air?
Eos eet?”
Brady surveyed him disgustedly.
“D’ye think I’m a bloomin’ lord?” he
queried. “Or d’ye take them cuddies fer
gallopers? Y'd be fur out one way as the
other.”
The swagman jabbered on, heedless of the
horseman’s disdain. His manner had com-
pletely changed. If before it had been repel-
lent. it was evident that he was now exert-
ing himself to be agreeable; yet his attempted
sociability was meeting with little encour-
agement.
Brady lay on his unrolled swag, his head
pillowed on his saddle and his pipe between
his lips, listening to the conversation of
his queer companion. Listening and think-
ing. The man’s furtive, uneasy behavior of
an hour ago, and now his sudden, forced
geniality, aroused in his fellow-wayfarer the
feeling that behind this eccentric demeanor
lay some grim mystery. The more he con-
sidered the matter the less he liked it. In
the end he rose with the intention of catch-
ing his horses and travelling a few miles
further. Man to man he thought himself
more than a match even for the sturdy
foreigner. But in the night a tired man
sleeps soundly, and Brady had a fancy for
waking again. He looked at the swagman’s
meagre possessions, and compared them with
his own turnout. Judging by his outfit, one
might guess him to be carrying a fair sum
of money with him. The assumption would
be entirely wrong, but that fact would per-
haps be of little use to Brady if once his
companion took the trouble to find out.
Eifty yards away, near the edge of the
scrub, the horses were feeding quietly. The
clink of the hobble-chains rang out on the
still night air as they shuffled from tussock
to tussock. Their owner stepped from the
fireside towards them. His fellow traveller,
who had apparently been asleep, sat up sud-
denly.
“W’nt you do, signor?” he demanded ap-
prehensively. Brady paused.
“Well,” he said carelessly, “the moon’s
pretty well up now. I was thinkin’ I’d jog
along a few miles. It’s better than travel-
lin’ in the daytime.”
The swagman glanced uneasily, in the
direction of the clinking hobble-chains.
“Da poor ’orse,” he exclaimed sympathe-
tically. “’E come far. Ees eet not?” He
glanced anxiously at Brady. “Let-a heem
rest, signor!”
Brady hesitated. Already he was ashamed
of his half-formed suspicions. “They are a
bit leg-weary,” he admitted.
Awhile he stood looking at their shadowy
forms; then he turned and walked back to
his belongings. His companion watched him
intently. “You will stay, signor?” he ven-
tured.
Brady capitulated. “Righto,” he agreed,
and commenced re-arranging his blankets.
A sudden commotion brought him to his
feet. The horses, feeding quietly towards
the undergrowth that fringed the taller
scrub, had thrown up their heads with wild
snorts, and fled past the camp with long
terrified jumps. In an instant their owner
was on his feet.
“What the hell’s the matter with ’em?”
he demanded irritably, and turned away to-
wards the scrub. “I’ll go and see what
frightened ’em,” he said.
Idle swagman arose hastily. “Eet ees
not’ing to see, signor,” he announced hur-
riedly. “Eet ees da rag. I see heem on da
boosh w’en I maka da leaf for-a da couch.
Can you geev me da match, signor?”
Brady returned to the fire and drew a box
thoughtfully from his pocket.
“What’s the matter with a firestick?” he
asked quietly.
The foreigner became apologetic. “I
nevare t’ink of heem,” he laughed mirth-
lessly. “I am—w’at you say—one beeg
fool.” Then, ignoring both firestick and
matches, he curled himself up in his blan-
kets again and was soon apparently asleep.
For a while. Brady lay ruminating on the
curious behavior of his companion. The
fellow had neither said nor done anything
of an aggressive nature, yet in spite of him-
self he could not help feeding vaguely appre-
hensive. He considered the matter dreamily.
Instinct warned him to go on. Ilis horses
were rested and refreshed. They could,
easily. He became drowsily aware of the
heavy, regular breathing 0 f the man on
the opposite side of the fire, and vexed, in a
sleepy, indefinite way, at the shrilling of
innumerable crickets almost, it seemed, be-
side his ear. What a damn row....they
made He w0u1d.... go 0n.... directly....
Hhat a.... damn row that
crick.... '
He awoke with a strange feeling of terror
The grim terror of the mind that, awakened
in the hours of darkness, finds death creep-
ing stealthily near. Some wild beast in-
stinct. a heritage from a primeval ancestor
told him to give no sign that he was awake
lo his straining eyes, sharpened by the
whetstone of fear to abnormal keenness
came a queer, oddly-familiar sound—a
monotonous, menacing whisper that puzzled
even while it alarmed, him.
He raised his eyelids a fraction of an inch
and fought back the gasp that would have
betiayed him. The fire had been made up
and was burning brightly. On the further
sale ot it his companion was standing a
piece of oil-stone in one hand, in the other
a long, slightly-curved butcher’s knife. His
gaze was fixed on the shining blade as he
passed it. to and fro, to and fro, to and
fro, with a gentle, almost caressing move-
ment; and anon slightly altering the
sweep of his right hand to bring some other
portion of the murderous implement into
contact with the stone, but alwavs changing
again ere long to rub gently at the long!
cruel point. He paused a moment, and drew
ms thumb lightly and questioningly alon<^
task ke6P edBe ’ frowne<i ’ and r€S umed his
. Through lowered eyelids Brady caught the
sinister gleam of light on the moving steel
as the Southerner stood, with bowed head
sharpening, sharpening, sharpening.
(Continued on next page.)


TRY DOAN’S FOR
THAT BAD BACK!
Don’t worry and complain about a bad back. Get rid of it! Your
back doesn t ache without a cause, and often the cause is weak kidneys.
Perhaps hard work has put your kidneys a little out of order, or a cold has
settled there. In that case a medicine is needed to help the weakened
kidneys, and if it s kidney backache the chances are you’ll soon be over it.
The lameness, stiffness, dull, tired feeling, nervousness, dizziness, rheumatic
pains and urinary trouble should go too. Use DOAN’S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS. You can. have faith in this medicine, as it is publicly
recommended by Sydney people.
"Every Picture
Tells a Story.”
5®
1
s?
Wi.
w
Mrs. F. Schroder, 98 Denison Street,
Waverley, Sydney, says:—“For a good while
a member of my family suffered from rheu-
matism and backache. The pain was often
so severe that it was torture to move about,
especially stooping. We felt sure the kid-
neys were not working properly, as there
were several other marked symptoms notice-
able, but the backache and rheumatism were
by far most painful. One day Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills were recommended as
a sure cure, so we sent for some, and I am
pleased to tell you they acted splendidly,
three bottles making a complete cure. Some
years have elapsed since then, but there has
been no return of the trouble, so we feel safe
in saying the cure is a permanent one. Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills are a wonderful
remedy, and we never lose an opportunity to
praise them.”
SYDNEY
PROOF
FOR
SYDNEY
PEOPLE.
Mr. Cecil 11. Tooth, 63 I’ier Street, Syd-
ney, says:—“About 12 months ago I was
suddenly seized with sharp, shooting pains
across the small of my back. As time went
on I got worse instead of better, and was
often so bad that every movement caused in-
creased torture. I felt ?ure my kidneys were
out of order, as I always seemed tired and
had no energy for anything. A doctor pre-
scribed for me, but his medicine only gave a
little relief. A friend advised me to take a
course of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, so
I got some at once and began using them.
They acted on the kidneys straight away,
and I have just finished the sixth bottle and
feel splendid; in fact, can safely say I am
cured. Doan’s Pills are a grand remedy,
and no mistake, and should be used by all
who suffer with their kidneys.”
Backache
Kidney
Price 2/!) per bottle, at
All Chemists and Stores,
or post free from Foster-
McClellan Co., 76 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
1 aralysed by the realisation of his awful
position, the intended victim lay motionless
—staring with a curious fascination—wait-
,as doomed bird awaits the coming
ot the snake. Twice he essayed to rise, but
his leaden limbs refused to obey his will.
Call as he might no human ears save Ms
own and Jus murderer’s would hear his cries.
Yet despite the utter futility of it, he strove
to call out, but his parched tongue clove to
the roof of his mouth.
Ihe slip-slip of the knife ceased suddenly,
an ?» t ! e spell wa ? broken. Like a flash
Brady was on his feet, a huge firestick in
his hands, a volley of curses pouring from
nis lips.
Dropping the knife the man drew back in
terror so evident as to give fresh courage
to him who, a moment since, had been at
the other’s mercy. The fire-brand came
nearer, in vicious sweeps, to the accompani-
ment of a torrent of invective.
“Yon murdering swine! Stab a man in his
sleep, would yer? I’ll spatter your brains
out.”
Rut. signor, eet ees all da meestake. I
do not keel you !”
“No, y’ cow, but y’ would ’ave,” roared
.Brady, emphatically.
‘No, signor. Eet ees I am hongaree. I
not ava da meat for-a two, t’ree day ”
“Cripes! Y’ cannibal. Y’ would ,
would yer?”
The Italian backed away.
“But da shipt Dare ees two, t’ree hondared
ships come to da watare; an’ I catch-a da
fat ship in da boosh ! I tie hees leg—come
back for-a my knife —but you come, signor;
L aai , so fright. I t’ink you da Guardia
Civile! Wat you call heem? Dap’leece! I
, - « , vou ’ orse feed-a da corn—brush ees
air? You say: ‘W’at-a for? I am not milord.
Ee ees not gallop.’ I say: ‘Ee ees hansree
to me. Better I spik not to heem.’ Rut,
signor, da ’orse eat da place I leave da ship.
Da ship keek ees leg. Fright da ’orse. Yes,
signor. I right me, too. You snv: ‘I go fine
aout w’at maka da ’orse fright.’ Fora-me I
am, lost I say: ‘Oeev me da match, signor.’
' \ ol ,’ stay- Wen you sleep. I say to me:
Now I keel da ship.’ I rise. Not maka da
noise. Sh-sharpa da knife—ver’ moche
sharp. I look. Santa Maria, you wake.
Grab da beeg steeck. Sweeng lieem ovare
da head. Sisrpor, I am ver’ moche fright. I
say: ‘ ’E will, keel me.’ But, signor, I see
you ’ave not da gun; nor-a da —w’at you
call heem?—da ’ancuff. I ’ear you swear.
Ah, I say to me, ‘’e ees not a p’leece!’ ”
He smiled ingratiatingly. “Come, signor;
I show you da ship.”
Armed with the blazing firestick and the
keen-edged butcher’s knife, Brady followed
obediently to the scrub where the horses
had taken fright earlier in the night and
gazed pensively at the fat wether that
lay there with his legs securely tied.
A moment he stood thus, then turned to
his companion.
“You thundering, jumping idiot,” he
snorted indignantly. “Why the blazes
didn’t you tell me about this when I fust
come? I wanted a bit o’ mutton as bad as
you did.”
SPINIFEX.
Summer Girls.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHEN you see big men with white
waistcoats roll up to the bar with
perspiration on their foreheads,
little men with loose mouths swallow the
contents of a pintpot without loss of breath,
and fat ladies scold the smallness of railway
carriages, you know without referring to the
calendar that it is summer. Summer was in
Melbourne, and bright lights awoke you
where in winter four-and-elevenpenny alarms
did the business of making you rise to the
occasion of eggs and bacon, with the eternal
“Good mornin’ ” from the also eternal
cottage-loaf landlady. Jimmy Peters felt
the influence of summer in his veins, and
cut out the bacon. Everybody greets the
approach of summer with thoughts of ice-
cream on the childish end and cool beer on
the Bohemian end. But, greater than all,
moonlit glades on the romantic end, and
love for the lover’s end of the theme.
Jimmy Peters was a follower of fortune,
whether good or bad, and the thought of
summer, after a dreary Melbourne winter,
always put a sparkle to his eyes, a swagger
to his body. He was not scientific in his
research for fortune, but adventured good-
naturedly along the road of circumstance.
He was one of those men who sit in offices
and play fugues in a ledger until five o’clock
strikes, then put on their coats, nod smilingly
to the pretty girl of the office, and go ’way
home. Jimmy arrived home, a little room
second-floor back, with a bed, dressing-table,
carpet, and four walls with various emblems
of his experiences hung upon them. After
sprucing up he made his way to the dining-
room on the ground floor. Saying “How
do?” to the occupants, he sat down next to
Miss Sybly, “the dearest little girl that
ever was,” as he labelled her on his tag of
intimate friends. Miss Sybly, in answer,
smiled the benign smile of a princess con-
ferring an honor on a war-worn hero; and
Jimmy accepted it with a blush, where, four
months back, in midwinter, lie would have
noticed it out of the corner of his eye as he
swallowed a spoonful of consommi.
“I’ve got a good’n,” he said later to Miss
Sybly when they were seated in the parlor.
“Mm,” she murmured, inviting his con-
fidence.
ti “What is it,” said Jimmy, with a smile,
“that grows strong in summer, sleeps in
winter,_ belongs to th§ human species, has
no brain to cultivate sense, and yet is the
sum of all knowledge?”
Miss Sybly canted her head on her hand
and looked thoughtful for a time, then said
sweetly, “I d’know.”
Jimmy’s eyes sparkled with intelligence;
then he said, with a redness suffusing his
features, “Love.” The young lady smiled
brightly, said “Aw, kiddin’,” and dug Jimmy
in the ribs.
The hunter of adventure, romance, for-
tune, or whatever you like to name it asked
Miss Sybly to take a walk through the
Gardens with him. She became coy for
a moment and declined sharply, as if to kill
audacity; then accepted, trying to hide
eagerness. She led the way out of the par-
lor and into the street, where Jimmy took
her arm uncertainly, and talked in a husky
voice about the brilliance of the moon, and
of the constellation under which, by a cer-
tain diviner’s prophecy, his divinity should
have been born.
They walked slowly up the hill, trying
to. look bored that her seeming glumness
might be questioned. They sauntered down
a pathway through the Gardens, where
hyacinths, tiger-lilies and phlox abounded.
At the bottom of the walk the young man
suggested, with great lack of indifference,
that they should be seated. Miss Sybly
conceded his wish by sitting on a low seat,
calm, unperturbed—slightly cold, in fact.
Jimmy sat down with mixed feelings of ex-
pectancy, joy and hope; expectant, as all
adventurers, of adventure; hoping that he
could sit like that, next to “the dearest
little girl that ever was,” and dream away
life playing fugues in a ledger until work
was done, and he reached an ideal wife in
an ideal home of his own. They sat silently
for a while enjoying the nearness of each
other, until the summer moon rose with
tropic-like suddenness, trailed a beam of its
light across the tops of the elms in the
avenue, and made Miss Sybly look really
beautiful. The 5)7 degrees of the summer
afternoon that had cooled to a nicety took
a hold on Jimmy somewhere around the left-
side of his waistcoat. A geranium at his
feet colored with magic, and so he turned
and looked into her eyes, where summer
also dwelt, muttered many lies of which he
was unaware, and kissed her at length.
Miss Sybly said “Don’t, dear,” and hugged
him closer to express her desire of being freed
from his embrace, which made him show
more of his undying devotion.
They went home, later, agreeing that life
was a real good old thing. At her door she
refused and yielded to his kiss with the same
breath.
Summer was in Jimmy’s blood, and the
geraniums and phlox nodded their fragrance
towards them often. He cut out eating
onions, and the “dearest little girl” sang
banal songs with much pathos.
One night there climbed up the three high
steps leading into Mrs. McGinnis’s boarding-
house a comical new resident whose name
was John Archook. John was a- short little
traveller, with beady eyes, a bowler hat and
a Napoleonic air. And on that same night
Jimmy again walked the golden path with
Miss Sybly. They seated themselves on
the little seat at jhe bottom of the hill.
After a dead silence of some time he leaned
to her and dramatically, and with a great
amount of sincerity, said: “Dearest, I love
you. I am poor; but if you will wait for
me I know I shall make good.” Miss Sybly
took it all in, reflecting on his propinquity,
which was very nice indeed ; his love, which
was very desirable indeed ; and his poorness,
which was another matter. Then, pressing
bis hand as though with affection, she said:
‘‘Jim, I am sorry you feel like that. I’d—
well, I’d never thought of things that way.
I—l hope I haven’t endangered our friend-
ship.”
“Friendship!” said Jimmy, acting well
up-stage. “Friendship ! Don’t treat me so.
dear, or I shall go mad.”
Whereupon Miss Sybly fell to weeping,
loudly, clearly but cleanly, and Jimmy
talked of dark flowing rivers, hilarious
nights in low saloons, and the prophecy of
his death by his own hand.
Even despairing love must come to an
end, so they made their way home, very
quietly, save for a few convulsive so.bs now
and again from Miss Sybly. To think she
could have hurt him with what she under-
stood was only friendship!
Jimmy left Mrs. McGinnis’s next payday,
and she who had been his inspiration, guid-
ing light and faith, parted from him with:
“I hope, Mr. Peters, we shall always be
friends.” Jimmy said he hoped so, and left
her abruptly before the envying eyes of the
female portion of the onlookers. And then
the new boarder claimed her attention, and
she had hopes of eradicating his bowler hat;
so that soon again the geraniums and the
phlox saw Miss Sybly on the arm of a domi-
nant man.
It was on the little seat at the bottom of
the hill, a few weeks later, that Mr. Ar-
chook declared his love and prosperity. Miss
Sybly forgot bis bowler hat and his love,
considered his prosperity at length, and,
after a pause, accepted him with a 16-year
hlush.
• * * •
The drizzle of rain made the beggar draw
his rags closer, and the newsboy’s feet were
cold beneath their dirt. The divine light
of. summer had left Jimmy Peters’s eye; no
more the moon sent thrill after thrill alortg
the vertebrae to his brain. 11 is passion for
onions had again been breathed into flame;
and this was the sign that he would remain
single for at least another season, the
summer having gone and tuken his madness
with it.
Friday night, and Prahran bustled with
its investors. Jimmy walked along dream-
ingly; then suddenly awoke, seeing ahead
of him Mr. and Mrs. Arcliook surveying a
perambulator with regard to its carrying
capacity, as well as its adornment. Mr.
Archook still had his little bowler hat
perched precariously on the top of his melon-
shaped head. Mrs. Archook was making re-
marks to her husband, apparently concern-
ini? the pram, lie looked ns prosperous as
ever in spite of his bowler hat; but as
Jimmy neared them Mrs. Archook, who
looked, at the least, drab, was asking the
bowler hat how he thought she could manage
any more time-payments on his four pounds
a week.
Then Jimmy took a look at himself in
a mirror, and, reflecting that his income-
tax return showed a total of £440 per annum,
was glad that he had no facility of tongue.
Winter had come to Melbourne again.
ERIG BEDFORD.


/I
Mm
•
!»
Js
& >
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WES TINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
Quaensiand Agents— HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane
V! l <ft'n?ii f i O n« o3 “ lO L F S atharBto " street > Wellington..
■liSlSljgjlJLfM®—Queen Street, Melbourne
V
Uy.CW r-"- '. ,> 1 y WAV
1
i
rr
3
a
w
3:
Hi
■p
3
A
Economy—
The Watchword of
Clydesdale Operation
YEARS of experience in petrol engine building has
resulted in perfecting the Clydesdale Motor Lorry,
wherein each gallon of petrol used exerts the
greatest amount of power for the operation of the Lorry.
Every day practical use in operating large fleets where
economy was essential, was responsible for this design.
The maximum amount of energy is obtained from the
minimum amount of petrol.
H u;s'f NTj laCtory Representative, P.O. Box 2093, Sydney.
HARDY - JOH>STON MOTOB CO., 54-56
Ne V|^ a TNGXON ribUtorS: INGMS BK ° S - & CO - Street,
T. E. SHIED & CO., Stafford Street, DUNEDIN.
THE CLYDE CARS COMPANY,
44 Whitehall Street, New York, U.S.A.
Cable Address: CROMOTOR.
CLEARS THE HEAD
A cold in the head will soon disappear if the throat and
nose passages are frequently cleansed with “Vaseline”
Borated. Also gives relief from catarrh.
Composed of mildly antiseptic borax and soothing “Vase-
line’' Jelly. Use on the eyelids when inflamed or sore
and for minor irritations of the skin. In sanitary tubes*
at chemists and general stores.
Other “Vaseline” Products
“VASELINE” MENTHOLATED-for neuralgia, nerv-
ous headaches, sore throat.
“VASELINE” CARBOLATED-for cuts, scratches,
skin abrasions.
CHESEBROUGH MANUFACTURING COMPANY
(Consolidated)
New York London Montreal
Vaseline Borated
Trade Mark Petroleum Jelly
Vaseline
BORAT
ARE
it YOU
tureD
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and curnbe some spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THA<T
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW: it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It. does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chatting leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRTAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE. COMFORT and SECURITY
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is Suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
The Medicine for Yon
must possess certain advantages without which it would hardly commend
itself to your confidence. It must be perfectly safe under all circumstances.
It must be mild in its action but none the less efficacious on that account.
It must be, par excellence, a family medicine, that is, suitable for
old and young of both sexes and be freely obtainable in town or
country. It must be easy to take, regular and reliable in its curative
effects and possess a great and genuine record of success. Such a
medicine is Beeeham’s Pills which still hold, and will continue to held,
the highest position in popular favour. It is very interesting, after so
many years service, still to find Beeeham’s Pills “at the top of the
tree among digestive remedies. They ar' everywhere acknowledged
to be unrivalled in the treatment of such troubles as biliousness, sick
headache, heartburn, constipation, giddiness, failing appetite, poorness
of blood and a general run-down condition. If you are in any way a
sufferer from digestive ailments take
gcechaw’; fills
BEECHAM’S PILLS are specially suitable for females ol all ages,
S® ld in boxes, labelled price 10 Jd (36 pills), 1/1£ (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills
SUCCESS IN LIFE
To succeed in life good spirits and hopeful
thoughts arc required. The man who is de-
spondent or irritable always fails.
Low spirits add irritability of
temper are often caused by
a dull, torpid liver.
Wake tip your liver
with Carter’s Little
Liver Pills and start
the day with a bright
cheerful face. Both
your health and
business will bene-
fit. No pain, no
discomfort. Thousands recommend them.
Good for old and young —purely vegetable.
Small Pill—Small Dose— Small Price.
CARTER'S]
TRADE MARK
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
GENUINE must
bear signature
OSTER
MATCHLESS
Screwing' TacKle
Unequalled for easy Tube-screwing,
A newly-improved line of tools, never before equalled or offered to
the public. Entirely self-contained, with no loose parts. All leader-
screw troubles are eliminated by our patented chip shield.
Oster Matchless Screwing Tackle is made in four sizes, and will
screw tubes from %in. to 4in. Two sizes (lin. to 2in., and 2 U in.
to 4in.) have a ratchet attachment.
Eday to adjust, easy
to start, and easy to
pull, it takes the un-
necessary work out
of screwing. Get t.
Matchless from yeur
nearest dealer.
Carried in stock,
with extra parts,
by ironmongers,
machinery and
hardware % plumb-
ing supply houses.
5
The Oster Manufacturing Co.,
Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.
Australasian Representative—
CHARLES WRIGHT, Turner Chambers, 16 Hunter St., Sydney
[2
Wire Strainer
each
Post Free
Thousands in Use.
{Patented)
10/
each
With Full Particulars
and Illustrated Circular.
=s=s =s&§§s§m^^^^ §^
The simplicity, lightness and excellence of the
Dreadnought is fully maintained.
£ r r HJLDOS ‘pnoy Aqutnujoy
AunctujOQ 6uun}or>4nur}[Ai un^ij_


MANGROVrr
LEATHER
LTI
Increases Production
because it grips the pulleys and transmits
maximum power all the time.
MANGROVITE RAWHIDE BELTING
does not stretch or slip—it is unequalled for
difficult drives. Write for, full particulars.
Mangrovite Belting Ltd.
(Charles Ludowici, Managing Director),
48 York Street (near C.P.0.), Sydney, N.S.W.
Western Australia: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Perth
s tn Australia: John Reid & Sons Ltd., Adelaide
ECONOMY comes with QUALITY
Your chaffcutter is exactly as good as its knives. It cannot be better, for
without good knives it will not cut economically and well.
CHAFFCUTTER KNIVES
bearing the brand of
"An Eagle on a Globe"
are good knives, the best made. They hold their keen edge
longer, saving much time usually spent in re-sharpening.
Made in all sizes to fit Bentall, Buncle, Cliff & Bunting, and
Richmond & Chandler machines.
Prices promptly Supplied on request to Desk “A.”
The Eagle 8 Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
Makers of Ultra Capital High-Speed Steel.
379-381 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
M iv ■
m
%
msph
•s'
The Advantages of
Hardie's "Fikrolite”
are told plainly and clearly in the new “Fibvolite
Booklet. Certainly every builder, architect and in-
tending home-builder should have a copy of this
Booklet, which tells how to build an original,
beautiful home at less cost than that of a lath
and plaster or weather-board structure and more dm-
able.
Your copy is here —write now.
James If ardie &. Co. Ltd.
“Asbestos House,”
Cr. York and Wynyard Streets, SYDNEY.
’Phone 8156 (6 Lines).
“Badger JR.,” capacity
loOOlb.j 17/6.
We have the Finest Assortment of Lifting Jacks in N.S.W.
STOCKS COMPRISE FROM THE LARGE GARAGE JACK TO THE BABY-CAR JACK.
Let Us know your Requirements and at what Price and We Will Suit You.
HERE ARE A FEW.
“Badger” Jacks, Universal
Favorites on account of
their Strength, Rigidity
and Rapidity of Action.
No. 3, the Most Powerful
1-ton Jack .... 23/9
No. 4, Similar but
Stronger 23/9
No. 8, Same as “JR” but
with Foot Lift . . 23/-
mm
a
m
i
3-Wheel Oarage .Jack, Double Action, operated by One
JLever, 75/- complete.
HERE ARE A FEW
MORE, BUT CHEAPER,
Satisfaction Guaranteed.
No; >
0 “Baby,” a Ratchet Lift
Jack 7/6
10, capacity 20001 b., 1.1/-
21, capacity 30001 b., 15/-
25, a Reliable 10001 b.
Jack 6/6
31, the Giant of Light-
weights, 15001 b. .. 8/-
ROBT. C. SWAN 8 CO. LTD.,
The House for Motor
Engineers’ Supplies,
“Badger” No. "I, with extra
Foot liiftj 27/6.
“STAR” Portable Lampless Oil Engines.
These Big-powered Engines are now becoming immensely popular for general Farm and Station work, such as
Woodcutting, Shearing, Chaffcutting, Pumping, etc., and each Engine supplied by us means another well-satisfled
client.
The Price is exceptionally Low for a Portable Engine, viz
-b.li.p £176 Including
h.p £205 Expert
h.p £235 to start.
We can arrange easy Terms, and guarantee satisfaction
-
in every instance
mm
U II ---
DALGETY (£L CO. LTD., Miller’s Point, SYDNEY.
Agents for TANCYES, CLAYTON & BHUTTLEWORTH, WOLSELEY Shearing Machines, TRIUMPH Oil Engines, CANE Milking Machines,
THE
Sheep Shearing'
Machines.
777/75
' 7.7
3
The world’s best.
When it conies to solid, practical use the Wolseley Sheep Shearing
Machines are unequalled.
They are the llrst on the market and have always held undoubted
supremacy. Inquire through any branch.
DALGETY (EL CO. LTD., Australasian Agents: All Branches
om
m
I -
l
ky
Laundry Machinery & Supplies
We are now manufacturing and have in stock for
immediate delivery complete Laundry Equipment
of the latest English and American design.
Power Washing Machines, Hydro Extractors, Steam
Mangles, Power Ironing Machines, Hand Ironers, etc.
And ALL SUPPLIES for tHe Laundry Trade.
Call and inspect or write for full descriptive catalog.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Be Prepared for the Spring Invasion of Flies and Disease!
“Go Over the Top” with an immediate installation of one of the
GUTHRIDGE Garbage Destructors
and ensure the Daily Destruction of Garbage, Sweepings, Rags, Garden Refuse
and all other Waste Hatter. You will thus
Render Your Home Safe, Sanitary and Pleasant.
These Patented Machines, made in 5 sizes, work on a principle which reduces to the minimum all smoke, smell or fuel
Prices from 50/- to £35.
view at our City Office, where our engineers will demonstrate them to you.
■--- ’ Booklet—with prices—post tree on request.
w
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.,
iSole Manufadurers (
Patentees*
350 George Street, Sydney.
